dllllll 




™ 




■L 

HI 
HMH 

■■:;;'!.;::■■■,:•.■:,;::.:■■... 

WHHii 

J ■•■■..•'■■ 
: ;■ ,,■.■■■: ; ' 



IBI 



llllii 







L 

H 






















































% V 










































j 






<s 






























$ 













v» 





















\ 






























I 























































iV 









_*. 



1a- 



o 



^ 










^''^- -V>% ^ V< V 





PRACTICAL 

AMERICA! COOKERY 

AND 

DOMESTIC ECOIOMY. 



COMPILED BY 

ELIZABETH M. HALL. 



ILLUSTRATED. 




NEW YORK AND AUBURN: 
MILLEK, ORTON & MULLIGAN. 

New York : 25 Park Row — Auburn : 107 Genesee-st. 

185G. 



<* 






Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred 

and fifty-five, 

BY MILLER, ORTON & MULLIGAN, 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Northern District of New York. 



aububn: 

MILLER, ORTON £ MULLIGAN, 
STEEEOTYPERS AND TEIXTERS. 



CONTENTS. 



[A complete General Index to the Eecipes embraced in each of the following 
Chapters, will be found at the end of this Vo'ume.] 



COOKERY. 

chapter. page. 

Introduction, ..... 5 

I. On Carving, . . . . . 11 

II. Soups, ...... 32 

III. Beef, ..... 47 

IV. Veal, ...... 62 

V. Mutton, . . . . . 69 

VI. Lamb, ...... 76 

VII. Pork, ...... 79 

VIII. Poultry, . . . . .88 

IX. Game, &c, . . . . 97 

X. Salt and Fresu "Water Fish, . . .103 

XL Sauces, . . . . 121 

XII. Vegetables, Salads, <fec, .... 130 

XIII. Potted Meats, . . . . 144 

XIV. Pies, Puddings, Tarts, Tartlets, Puffs, <fec, . 149 
XV. Pancakes, Fritters, Muffins and "Waffles, . 190 

XVI. Eggs and Omelets, . . . .196 

XVII. Buttek, Cheese, <fcc, .... 200 

XVIII. Custards, Creams, Ices, Jellies, Marmalades, &c. . 208 

XIX. Confectionery, Preserved Fruits, <fec, . 231 

XX. Pickles, . . . . . .251 

XXI. Cakes, Buns, Biscuits, Bread, Ac, . . 260 



IV CONTEXTS. 

CHAPTEB. PAGE, 

XXII. Coffee, Tea, Chocolate, Cocoa, . . . 303 

XXIII. Home Made Wines, .... 309 

XXIV. Liquors, Beverages, <fcc, .... 318 
XXV. Preparations for the Sick, . . . 325 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

XXVI. Miscellaneous Recipes, .... 330 

XXVII. The Orchard, Garden, Ac., . . . 379 

XXVIII. Medicinal Recipes, <tc, .... 387 

The Cook's Table of "Weights and Measures, . 329 

Medicinal Preparations and Herbs, . 411 

Qualities of Animal and Vegetable Food, 412 

General Index, ... . 423 



INTRODUCTION. 



The present collection of Recipes Bits been se- 
lected and arranged with much care and a well-di- 
rected attention : they are the results of experience, 
and will be found, on inspection, to contain nearly, if 
not all, that can be esteemed essential for the pro- 
duction alike of a simply or a most elaborately fur- 
nished table. 

' The necessity as well as the propriety of well reg- 
ulated domestic arrangements, in the household of all 
classes and conditions, cannot be questioned ; every 
income has its limit, and the mistress of the house 
should see that her domestic expenses do not exceed 
that of her husband. 

The young housekeeper should be acquainted with 
the extent of her husband's resources, and resolve 
with firmness to regulate her household with such 
prudence and economy as not to exceed them. 

However unromantic it may be, it is a certain fact, 
that the happiness of life is not a little dependent 
upon the stomach ; so the professors of medicine teach 
us. As all our ailments, save fractured limbs and 
wounds from instruments, proceed from a disordered 
stomach, so very much of our domestic comfort pro- 
ceeds from the arrangement and regularity of the 
daily meal. This is a point strongly to be considered. 



VI INTRODUCTION'. 

The appetite is dependent upon the health, the health 
upon the proper and regular supply of food, which 
should be as much varied as possible. Nothing so 
soon palls the appetite as sameness of diet, nor so im- 
mediately injures the health; for, by being palled, 
the appetite declines and the body suifers. Without 
health, there is little comfort ; without comfort, no 
real happiness. Thus, eating and drinking, under a 
proper control, should be our first consideration ; and, 
being one of the essentials requisite for health and 
happiness, so it becomes the young housekeeper to 
look to the appointments of her kitchen. 

A kitchen should always be well furnished ; there 
is no necessity that it should be profusely so ; but 
there should be a sufficiency of everything which can 
aid in producing the dishes preparing, with the suc- 
cess which is so essential to the gratification of the 
palate. 

Cleanliness is a most essential qualification in the 
art of cooking, not only with regard to the person, 
but the utensils, and should be maintained in the 
kitchen at any personal sacrifice. 

In consulting this work, the cook will gain much 
advantage by a careful examination of the introdnc- 
ductory remarks to each chapter, as many useful 
hints are there given relative to the department of 
cookery under consideration. 

In selecting and arranging the various miscellane- 
ous recipes under the head of Domestic Economy, a 
constant regard has been had to the real wants of 
the family. It comprises valuable recipes for the 
household. 



INTRODUCTION". Vll 

IMPORTANT HINTS TO COOKS. 

Keep your meat in a dry, cool place, your fish on 
ice, and your vegetables on a stone floor free from air. 

Cut your soap when it comes in, and let it dry 
slowly. 

Keep your sweet herbs in paper bags, each bag 
containing only one description of herb. They should 
be dried in the wind, and not in the sun ; and when 
ordered in a recipe should be cautiously used, as a 
preponderance in any seasoning spoils it. 

When oranges or lemons are used for juice, chop 
down the peel, put them in small pots, and tie them 
down for use. 

Apples should be kept on dry straw, in a dry place ; 
and pears hung up by the stalk. 

Batter, for fish, meat, fritters, &c. — Prepare it 
with fine flour, salt, milk, and eggs, beaten up. Fry 
in hog's lard or sweet butter. 

Carrots, if young, need only be wiped when boiled 
— if old, they must be scraped before boiling. Slice 
them into a dish, and pour over them melted butter. 

Cauliflowers. — Cut off the stalks, but leave a lit- 
tle of the green on ; boil in spring water with a little 
salt in it : they must not boil too fast. 

Celery. — Yery little is sufficient for soups, as the 
flavor is very predominating. It should be thorough- 
ly washed and curled when sent to table. 

Game may often be made fit for eating when it 
seems spoiled, by cleaning and washing it with vine- 
gar and water. Birds that are not likely to keep, 
should be drawn, cropped, and picked, then wash in 
two or three waters, and rub them with salt ; have 



Vlll DfTRODUCTieH. 

in readiness a large saucepan of boiling water, and 
plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up 
and down by the legs, so that the water may pass 

through them. Let them stay for five or six minutes, 
then hang them up in a cold place ; when they are 
completely drained, salt and pepper well the iusides, 
and thoroughly wash them before roasting. 

Gravies. — The skirts of beef and the kidney will 
make quite as good gravy as any other meat, if pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

Lard should be carefully melted in a jar, put in a 
kettle of water and boiled, and run into bladders that 
have been strictly cleaned ; the bladders should not 
be too large, as the lard will become rank if the air 
gets to it. 

Sago should soak for an hour, previous to using, to 
take off the earthy taste. 

Copper vessels, when the tinning is worn off, must 
never be used, or the poisoning of those who partake 
of whatever may have been cooked in them, is inev- 
itable. They should be sent to be re-tinned as soon 
as they require it. 

A WORD FOR THE DIXXER TABLE. 

As host. — The company seated, and a blessing in- 
voked ; dispatch soup to each, without inquiring 
whether you shall help them or not. Help the per- 
son nearest you on the right first ; then on your left, 
and so on. Serve fish in the same way. Never offer 
fish or soup a second time. 

The principal dish of meat you will carve yourself. 



INTRODUCTION. IX 

Supply the plates, and hand them to the servants, 
who will offer them to such of the company as are un- 
provided. In helping, supply each plate with a por- 
tion of the choice parts, as the kidney in a quarter of 
lamb, or sweet-bread in veal. In poultry, or other 
meats, some parts of which are preferred to others, 
according to the taste of individuals, before helping, 
ask each one if he has any preference. If the re- 
ply is in the negative, do not repeat the question, nor 
insist that he must have a preference. Have the 
servant offer gravy to each guest, or you may your- 
self ask each if he will take gravy, and help to it with 
the meat. 

See that your guests are helped to, or have an op- 
portunity of declining, each of the principal dishes. 
After a particular dish has once been declined by any 
one, do not urge him to partake. Vegetables the 
servant should help to ; but it will depend on your 
attention and care to see that each guest is properly 
supplied. Especially see that the servant is attentive 
and prompt in supplying bread, water, salt, and the 
et ceteras of the table to each guest. 

As Guest. — Being seated, when soup is offered, 
take it. It is. better to do this, even if you do not 
really wish any ; but fish you may decline. Do not 
ask for either a second time. 

If asked whether you have a preference for any 
dish, or any particular part of a dish, answer promptly, 
definitely, and distinctly. 

If a gentleman, you will be expected to carve and 
help to game or any side dish which may be nearest 
A* 



INTRODUCTION. 



you ; unless where the dishes are removed to be 
carved by a servant at a side table. 

Your duty to your entertainer requires that you 
should be as agreeable as possible, taking no notice 
of any unfortunate mistake or accident, engaging in 
conversation with your next or opposite neighbor, 
and feeling and acting at your ease. 

The Servant should serve everything at the left 
hand of the guest. 




^^ 



CHAPTER I. 



ON CARVING. 



Carving presents no difficulties; it requires simply knowl- 
edge. All displays of exertion or violence are in very bad 
taste. A good knife of moderate size, sufficient length of han- 
dle, and very sharp, is requisite ; for a lady it should be light, 
and smaller than that used by gentlemen. Fowls are very 
easily carved, and in loins, breasts, fore-quarters, &c, the 
butcher should have strict injunctions to separate the joints well. 

The dish upon which the article to be carved is placed should 
be conveniently near to the carver, so that he has full control 
( >ver it. 



12 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 



In serving fish, some nicety and care must be exercised ; 
here lightness of hand and dexterity of management is necessary, 
and can only be acquired by practice. The flakes which in 
such fish as salmon and cod are large, should not be, broken in 
serving, for the beauty of the fish is then destroyed, and tin- 
appetite for it injured. In addition to the skill in the use of 
the knife, there is also required another description of knowl- 
edge, and that is an acquaintance with the best parts of the 
joints, fowl or fish, beffig carved. Thus, in a haunch of veni- 
son, the fat, which is a favorite, must be served with each slice ; 
in the shoulder of mutton there are some delicate cuts in the 
under part. The breast and wings are the best parts of a 
fowl ; the trail of a woodcock on a toast is the choicest part of 
the bird. In fish, a part of the roe should accompany the piece 
offish served. 

An Aitch-bone of 

Beef. This is a simple 

joint to carve, but the 

slices from it must be 

cut quite even, and of a 

very moderate thick- 

P ness. When the joint 

is boiled, before cutting 

Altcb - Bone - to serve, remove a slice 

from the whole of the upper part, of sufficient thickness, say a 

quarter of an inch, in order to arrive at the juicy part of the meat 

at once. Carve from a to b ; let the slices be moderately thin 

not too thin ; help tat with the lean in one piece, and give a 
little additional fat, which you will find below c ; the solid fat 
is at a, and must be cut in slices horizontally. The round of 
beef is carved in the same manner. 

Piibs of Beef. There are two modes of carving this joint; 
the first, which is now becoming common, and is easy to an 
amateur carver, is to cut across the bone commencing in the 




ON CARVING. 



13 




center, and serving fet from a, as marked in the engraving of 
the sirloin, or it should be carved in slices from a to b. Oc- 
casionally the bones are removed, and the meat formed into a 
fillet ; it should then be carved as a round of beef. 

The Sirloin of 



Beef. The under 
part should be first 
served, and carved 
as indicated in the 



engrravmtr, across 
the bone. In carv- 
ing the upper part 
Sirloin of Beef. the same directions 

should be followed as for the ribs, carving either side, from a 
to b.. __ 

Fillet of Veal. Cut 

a slice off the whole of the 

upper part in the same 

way as from a round of 

beef; this being, if well 

roasted, of a nice brown, 

should be helped in small 

Fillet of Veal. pieces with the slices you 

cut for each person. The stuffing is skewered in the flap, and 

where the bone comes out there is some placed ; help this with 

the meat with a piece of the fat. 

Neck of Veal. 
fiEJWere you to at- 




■ , 




£i 



tempt to carve each 

fo chop, and serve it, 

vou would not on- 



ly place a gigantic 
Neck of Veal. piece upon the plate 

of the person you intended to help, but you would waste much 



14 



PRACHCAL COOKERY 



time ; and should the vertebras not have been jointed by the 
butcher, you would find yourself in the position of the ungraceful 
carver, being compelled to exercise a degree of strength which 
should never be suffered to appear ; very possibly, too, assisting 
gravy in a manner not contemplated by the person unfortunate 
enough to receive it. Cut diagonally from b to a, and help in 
slices of moderate thickness ; you can cut from c to d in or- 
der to separate the small bones ; divide and serve them, having 
first inquired if they are desired. 




The Breast 
of Veal. Sepa- 
^_ rate the ribs from 
the brisket, cut* 
a tinij from b to A : 
| these si nail bones, 
which are much 
Breast of Veal. the sweetest and 

mostly chosen, you will cut as at ddd, and serve ; the long ribs 
are divided as at c c c, and having ascertained the preference 
of the person, help accordingly ; at good tables the scrag is not 
served, but is found, when properly cooked, a very good stew. 
Loin of Veal. This joint is sent to table served as a sir- 
loin of beef. Having turned it over, cut out the kidney and 
the fat, return it to its proper position, and carve it as in the 
neck of veal, from b to a ; help with it a slice of kidney and 
fat. The kidney is usually placed upon a dry toast when re- 
moved from the joint. 

Shoulder of Veal is sent to table with the under part 
placed uppermost. Help it as a shoulder of mutton, beginning 
at the knuckle end. 



ON CARVING. 



15 




Calf's Head. 
There is much 
more meat to be 
obtained from a 
calf's head by carv- 
ing it one way than 
another. Carve 

Half of Calf s Head. f rom A to B, Cut- 

ting quite down to the bone. At the fleshy part of the neck 
end you will find the throat sweetbread, which you can help a 
slice of with the other part ; you will remove the eye with the 
point of the knife and divide it in half, helping those to it who 
profess a preference for it ; there are some tasty, gelatinous 
pieces around it which are palatable. Remove the jaw bone, 
and then you will meet with some fine flavored lean ; the palate, 
which is under the head, is by some thought a dainty, and 
should be proffered when carving. 

Leg of Mutton. 
The under or thick- 
est part of the leg 
should be placed up- 
permost, and carved 
in slices moderately 
thin from b to c. 
Many persons have a 
taste for the knuckle, 
Leg of Mutton. an( j jf p re f e rred, it 

should be helped. When cold, the back of the leg should be 
placed uppermost, and thus carved ; if the cramp bone is re- 
quested, and some persons regard it as a dainty, hold the shank 
with your left hand, and insert your knife at d, passing It round 
to e, and vou will remove it. 




16 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 




A Shoulder of Mut- 
ton. It should be served 
and eaten very hot. It is 
sent to table lying on the 
dish as shown in the an- 
nexed engraving. Com- 
mence carving from a to 
b, taking out moderately 
thin slices in the shape of 
a Shoulder of Mutton. a wedge ; some nice pie- 

ces may then be helped from the blade bone, from c to b, cut- 
ting on both sides of the bone. Cut the fat from d, carving it in 
thin slices. Some of the most delicate parts, however, lie on 
the under part of the shoulder ; take off thin pieces horizon- 
tally from b to c, and from a; some tender slices are to be 
met with at d, but they must be cut through as indicated. 

The shoulder of mut- 
ton is essentially a joint 
of tit-bits, and,, therefore, 
when carving it, the tastes 
of those at the table should 
be consulted. It is a very 
insipid joint when cold, 
and should, therefore, be 
hashed if sent to table a 
a Shoulder of Mutton. second time. 

The Loin of Mutton, if small, should be carved in chops, 
beginning with the outer chop ; if large, carve slices the whole 
length. A neat way is, to run the knife along the chine bone 
and under the meat along the ribs, it may then be cut in slices, 
as shown in the engraving of the saddle of mutton below; by 
this process flit and lean are served together ; your knife should 
be very sharp, and it should be done cleverly. 




ON CARVING. 



17 




Neck of Mutton, if the scrag and chine bone are removed, 
is carved in the direction of the bones. 

The Scrag of Mutton should be separated from the ribs 
of the neck, and when roasted, the bones helped with the meat. 

Saddle of 
Mutton. The 
tail end is divi- 
ded in the en- 
graving, and the 
5|gll li|g kidneys skew- 
ered under each 
division ; this is 
a matter of taste, 

Saddle of Mutton. an( j j g not a J_ 

ways done. Carve from a to b in thin slices ; help fat from c 
to d. You may help from the vertebras on both sides of the 
loin, and then carve cross-wise as marked in the engraving, 
which gives you both fat and lean ; help a slice of kidney to 
those who desire it. 

Haunch of Mutton is carved as haunch of venison. 

Fore Quar- 
ter of Lamb. 
Place your fork 
near the knuckle 
and cut from a 
to c, to b, and 

Fore Quarter of Lamb. On to D ; pass 

your knife under, lifting with the fork at the same time. The 
juice of half a lemon which has been sprinkled with salt and 
pepper, is then squeezed under the shoulder, and a slice of fresh 
butter placed there, also ; the parts are reunited until the but- 
ter is melted, and the shoulder is then placed in a separate 
dish ; separate the neck from the ribs, from e to d, and then 




18 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 




help to the breast o, or the neck f, according to the palate of 
your guest. 

Haunch of Ven- 
ison. Have the 
dish placed before 
you so that the loin 
is nearest to you, 
and the knuckle 

Hannch of Venison. farthest | then Cut 

from a to b, sufficiently near the knuckle to prevent the es- 
cape of any gravy ; then make your first cut from c to a, with 
a slanting cut, and let each succeeding slice be sloping, so that 
all the gravy may be retained in the hollow thus formed; the 
fat will be found at the left side, and must be served with the 
meat. 

Neck of Venison, should be carved across the ribs, as in 
the neck of veal, or lengthwise, from one end of the neck to 
the other. 

Pork. The leg when sent to table should be placed with 
the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed ; if suffi- 
ciently baked, this may be done with ease; the meat should 
be served in thin slices, cut across the leg, the crackling being 
served with it, or not, according to taste ; the loins are cut into 
the pieces as scored by the butcher. 



Ham. It is served 
as placed in the engra- 
ving, and should come 
to table ornamented. 
Carve from a to b, cut- 
ting thin slices. 




Ham. 



ON CARVING. 



19 




Boiled Tongue. Carve across the tongue in thin slices. 

Roast Pig. The cook 

should send a roast pig to 

table as displayed here, 

garnished with head and 

ears ; carve the joints in 

direction shown by the 

lines in the diagram, then 

Boast Pig. divide the ribs; serve with 

plenty of sauce ; should one of the joints be too much, it may 

be separated : bread sauce and stuffing should accompany 

it. An ear and the jaw are favorite parts with many people. 

Babbit. Cut 
slices from b to 
a of moderate 
thickness. When 
the rabbit is 
young, you can, 
after removing 
the shoulders and 
legs, cut across the back, and divide it into several pieces ; this 
is not practicable with a full grown rabbit, unless it is boned. 
The shoulders and legs are easily removed by placing the 
knife between them, and turning them back, the joint will dis- 
close itself, and can then be separated. The head should not 
be removed until the last ; divide it from the neck, remove 
the lower jaw, then cut through the division which appears 
from the nose to the top of the skull and lay it open. The 
stuffing should be given with whatever portion may be 
helped. 

Roast Hare is carved in the same manner. 




Babbit 



20 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 





Boiled Rabbit. Re- 
move the legs and 
shoulders ; they very 
easily separate. Di- 
vide the back into two 
parts by holding the 
Boiled Rabbit fork firmly in the back, 

and passing the knife underneath near the middle, and bending 
it back. The most tender part is on the loins ; the meat there 
is of a very delicate flavor ; liver should be helped with it. 

Roast Chickens and Tur- 
key. These, especially the 
latter, require skillful carving, 
and both observation and 
practice are necessary to per- 
form the operation satisfacto- 
Remove the wings, cutting from 
d to b, and separating the joints with the edge of your knife. 
Make a short cut in a downward direction at right angles with 
the drumsticks, then cut from a between the legs and side, 
toward the wings; press back the legs with the blade of the 
knife, and the joint will disclose itself; if young it will part, 
but at best, if judiciously managed, will require but a nick 
where the joints unite. Divide the thighs from the drumsticks, 
and here an instrument termed a disjoin ter, will be found a r- 
viceable. Then carve slices lengthwise, from each side of the 
breast. Next remove the merrythought and neck-bones by 
inserting the knife and piercing it under the bones, raising it, 
when they will readily separate from the breast. Divide the 
breast from the body by cutting backwards on each side 
through the small ribs down to the vent. Take off the side 
bones, turn the back uppermost, put your knife into about the 



Roast FowL 

rily to yourself- and others. 



ON CARVING. 



21 



center between the neck and rump, raise the lower part firmly, 
yet gently, and it will easily separate. 

In separating the thigh from the drum- 
stick, you must insert the knife exactly at the 
joint as we have indicated in the engraving ; 
this, however, will be found to require practice, 
for the joint must be accurately hit, or else 
much difficulty will be experienced in getting 
the parts asunder. 

Boiled Fowls are carved in the same way as roast. 






Boiled Fowl (breast) Boiled Fowl (back.) 

Buoiled Chickens are carved by simply dividing them into 
quarters ; dividing them first lengthwise through the breast, 
and then across between the wing and leg. 




Goose Roast. 



Geese. Follow with your 
knife the lines marked in the 
engraving, a to b, and cut slices, 
then remove the wing, and if 
. the party be large, the legs must 
also be removed, and here the 
disjointer will again prove ser- 
viceable. The stuffing will be 
obtained by making an insertion 
ate. 



22 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 




Pheasant. Clear the leg by inserting 
the edge of the knife between it and the 
body ; then take off the wings, b to a, but 
do not remove much of the breast with 
them ; you are thus enabled to obtain 
some nice slices ; the pheasant is then 
carved as a fowl. The breast is first in 
estimation, then the wings, and after these 
the merry-thought ; lovers of game pre- 
fer a leg. 

A Pheasant. 

Guinea Fowl are carved in the same manner. 

Partridge. Separate the legs, and 
then divide the bird into three parts, leav- 
ing each leg and wing together. The 
breast is then divided from the back, and 
helped whole, the latter being assisted with 
any of the other parts. W hen the party 
consists entirely of gentlemen, the bird is 
divided into two by cutting right through 
from the vent to the neck. 
Quails, Reed-Birds, and all small birds, are served whole. 
Grouse and Plover are carved as partridges. 
Snipe and Woodcock are divided into two parts ; the trail 
being served on a toast. 

Wild Duck and Widgeon. The breast of these fowls be- 
ing the best portion, is carved in slices, which, being removed, 
a glass of old port made hot is poured in; the half of a lemon 
seasoned with cayenne and salt, should then be squeezed in the 
slices, relaid in their places, and then served, the joints being 
removed the same as in other fowl. 




Partridge. 



ON CARVING. 



23 




Pigeon. Like wood- 
cock, these birds are cut in 
half, through the breast and 
back, and helped. 




Pigeon (breast.) 



Pigeon (back.) 



FISH. 




and Fork. 



Fish should never be carved with steel ; helping requires more 
care than knowledge ; the principal caution is to avoid breaking 

the flakes. In carving a piece 

A 



of salmon, as here engraved, 
cut thin slices, as from a to 
b, and help with it pieces 
of the belly, in the direc- 
tion marked from d to c ; 
the best flavored is the up- 

Middle cut of Salmon. per or thlclc part. The 

white fish and trout of our northern lakes are carved in the 
same way. Also sheephead, when large ; when small, they 
are cut right through. 




24 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 




Turbot. Cut flat pieces 
as marked in the engra- 
ving, without moving the 
bone ; the fin, which is es- 
teemed a delicacy, is al- 
ways served with it. 



Turbot. 

All fiat fish are carved in the same manner: flounders are 
cut either in halves, or, if very large, are divided into three, 
cutting right through. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. Carry the knife from 
a to b, and then along the line, to c ; help slices, ac- 
companied by some of 
the sound, which is to 
be found lining the back, 
and which you may ob- 
tain by passing the knife 
under the back-bone at 
c ; serve also a piece of 
cod's Head. liver. Many choice 

parts lie in this dish, and by inquiry you will soon ascertain 
the parts preferred. The jaw-bone, from its gelatinous nature, 
is considered by some a dainty, and the head generally, inclu- 
ding eyes and palate, is a favorite with many. 

Haddock. It is dressed whole, unless unusually large. 
When sent to table it is split its whole length, and served one- 
half the head to the tail of the other part; it is carved across. 




ON CARVING. 



25 



Mackerel should always be sent to table head to tail. First 

cut off the head, then divide 
the meat from the bone 
by cutting down the back 
lengthwise; the upper part 
is the best. All small fish, 
such as herrings, perch, 
smelts, mullets, &c, are 
served whole. 




A dish of Mackerel. 



BEEF. 



A Bullock marked as cut in the joints by the Butcher. 




A Sirloin. 

B Rump. 

C Aitchbone. 

D Buttock. 

E Mouse Buttock. 

F Veiny piece. 

G Thick Flank. 

H Thin Flank. 

I Leg. 



K Fore Ribs, containing five ribs. 
L Middle Rib, containing four ribs. 
M Chuck Rib, containing three ribs. 
N Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton piece. 
O Brisket. 
P Clod. 

Q Neck, or Sticking piece. 
R Shin. 
S Cheek. 

The baron of beef is formed of the pieces marked a, b, united 
on both sides. 
B 



26 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 
VEAL. 




The calf is divided into joints by the butcher, upon a system 
which unites the methods employed for cutting up both beef 
and mutton. 



A The Loin (best end.) 
B The Loin (chump end.) 
C The Fillet. 
D The Hind Knuckle. 
E The Fore Knuckle. 



F Xeck (best end.) 
G Neck (scrag.) 
H Blade Bone. 
I Breast (best end.) 
K Breast (Brisket.) 



PORK. 




The Pig is thus divided : 
A The Fore Loin. C The Belly, or Spring. 

B The Hind Loin. D The Hand. 

E The Leg. 
The spare rib is under the shoulder, which, when removed 
in a porker, leaves part of the neck without a skin upon it, 
forming the spare rib. The head is much liked by many, and 
appears at table dressed in various ways. 



OX CARVING. 

MUTTON. 



27 




The sheep is thus apportioned by butchers : 

A The Leg. E Neck (scrag end.) 

B Loin (the best end.) F Shoulder. 

C Loin (chump end.) G Breast. 
D Neck (best end.) 

VENISON. 








A Haunch. B Neck. C SEoulder. D Breast. 
Buck and Doe Venison are cut up in similar fashion. 



28 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

TO CHOOSE MEATS. 

Venison. The choice of venison should be regulated by 
the appearance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, 
looks bright, thick, clear, and close. It first changes toward 
the haunches. To ascertain whether it is sweet, run a knife 
into that part ; if tainted, it will have a rank smell. 

Beef. True, well-fed beef will exhibit an open grain of deep- 
coral-red, and the flit will appear of a healthy, oily smooth- 
ness, rather inclining to white than yellow. The suet firm and 
white. Yellow fat is a test of meat of an inferior quality. 
Heifer beef is but little inferior to ox beef; the lean is of a 
closer grain, the red paler, and the fat whiter. 

Veal. When you observe the kidney well surrounded 
with fat, you maybe sure the meat is of a good quality. The 
whitest is not the best veal. There is a vein in the shoulder 
very perceptible, and its color indicates the freshness of the 
meat ; if a bright red or blue, it is recently killed ; if any 
green or yellow spots are visible, it is stale. 

Mutton. The best is of a fine grain, a bright color, the fat 
firm and white. It is better for being full grown. 

Lamb should be eaten very fresh. In the fore quarter, the 
vein in the neck being any other color than blue, betrays it to 
be stale. In the hind quarter, try the kidney with your nose ; 
*he faintness of its smell will prove it to be stale. 

Pork. In young pork the lean when pinched will break ; 
the thickness and toughness of the rind shows it to be old. 
In fresh pork the flesh is firm, smooth, a clear color, and the 
fat set. When stale, it looks clammy and flabby. Meosly 
pork may be detected by the kernels in the fat ; it should not 
•-e eaten. 

Bacon. Excellent young bacon may be thus known — the 
lean will be tender and of a brisiht color ; the fat firm and 
white, yet bearing a pale rose tinge ; the rind thin, and the 



ON CARVING. 29 

lean lender to the touch. Rusty bacon has yellow streaks 
in it. 

Hams. The test of a sweet ham is to pass a sharp knife to 
the bone, and when drawn out, smell it ; if the knife is daubed 
greasy, and the scent disagreeable, it is bad. A good ham 
will present an agreeable smell when the knife is withdrawn. 

TO CHOOSE POULTRY AND GAME. 

Turkey. The cock bird when young has a smooth, black 
leg with a short spur. The eyes bright and full, and moist, 
supple feet when fresh ; the absence of these signs denotes age 
and staleness. 

Fowls like a turkey ; the young cock has a smooth leg 
and a short spur ; when fresh the vent is close and dark. 
Hens, when young, have smooth legs and combs ; when old 
these will be rough ; a good capon has a thick belly and large 
rump, a poll comb and a swelling breast. 

Geese. In young geese the feet and bills will be yellow 
and free from hair. When fresh the feet are pliable ; they 
are stiff when stale. 

Ducks may be selected by the same rules. 

Pigeons, when fresh, have supple feet, and the vent will be 
firm ; if discolored and supple they are stale. 

Plovers, when fat, have hard vents ; but, like almost all 
other birds, may be chosen by the above rules. 

Hares and Rabbits. When young and fresh, the cleft in 
the lip is narrow, the body stiflfj the ears tear easily, and the 
claws are smooth and sharp ; when old and stale they will be 
the opposite of this. 

Partridges. Yellow legs and a dark bill are signs by 
which a young bird may be known, and a rigid vent when 
fresh. When this part is green the bird is stale. 



.30 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

Pheasants may be chosen as above ; the young birds are 
known by the short or round spur, which in the old is long and 
pointed. 

Moor Game. Grouse, Woodcocks, Snipes, Quails, &c, 
may be chosen by the rules above given. 

TO CHOOSE FISH. 

Turbot. When good are thick, and the belly is white with 
a faint yellow tinge. 

Salmon. The fish stiff, the scales very bright, the belly 
thick, the gills a brilliant color, and the flesh when cut a beau- 
tiful red, will prove it to be a fine, fresh fish. It cannot be too 
fresh. 

Cod. The best fish are thick at the neck, very red gills, firm, 
white flesh, bright, and blood-shot eyes, and small head. 

Herrings. Very red gills, blood shot eyes, wry bright 
scales, and the fish stiff, shows them to be good and fresh. 

Flounders should be thick and firm, the eyes bright. 

Mackerel. Bright eyes, thick bodies, the prismatic colors 
very predominant on the belly, denote freshness and goodness. 

Pike, Trout, Perch, Smelts, Gudgeons, &c, may be judged 
by the above rules. 

Mullet. The red are preferred to the gray, and the sea to 
the river. They are a delicious fish when properly cooked. 
1 Eels. They should be alive when purchased. 

SHELL FISH. 

Lobsters. To be had in perfection should be boiled at 
home; choose the heaviest. When they are boiled, the tail, 
should have a good spring; the cock lobster has a narrow tail 
in which the two uppermost fins are stiff and hard ; the hen 



ON CARVING. 31 

has a broad tail, and these fins are softer. The male has the 
best flavor ; the flesh is firmer, and the color when boiled is 
brighter than the hen. 

Crabs, like lobsters, should be selected by weight ; when 
prime, the leg-joints are stiff and the scent pleasant. 

Shrimps should be bright and the bodies firm and stiff; 
when they are limp' and soft they are stale. 

Oysters. There are many sorts of oysters; when the oys- 
ter is alive the shell will close upon the knife. 

Fresh Fish, when boiled, should be placed in cold, and 
shell-fish in boiling water. 

Fish should be garnished with celery, parsley or hard boiled 
eggs cut in rings, and laid around the dish, and served with no 
other vegetable but potatoes. 



CHAPTER II. 
SOUPS. 

There is no dish, perhaps, that comes to table which gives 
such general satisfaction as well prepared soup ; let the appe- 
tite be vigorous or refined, an excellent soup will always prove 
grateful to it ; and as this is beyond contradiction, it should be 
the province of the cook to be always in a position to produce 
it at a short notice. 

There should always be plenty of dried herbs in the store 
closet. They may be very well kept, as indeed they are, usu- 
ally, in paper bags ; they should all be labeled. 

There should be a saucepan, or kettle of iron well tinned, 
kept for soup only ; remember the lid should fit tightly, and 
the vessel be perfectly clean. 

The spices and other condiments used to give flavor to soups, 
should be so nicely proportioned, that none predominate. 
Onions and garlic should be used sparingly. 

Skim the soup thoroughly when it first begins to boil, or it 
can never afterward be rendered clear ; throw in some salt, 
which will assist to bring the scum to the surface, and when it 
has all been taken off, add the herbs and vegetables. 

Inferior pieces of meat, such as the neck or scrag, and knuckle 
bone, are used in making soup. Remains of cooked meats, 
may be thus used. When too fat, the grease must be skim- 
med o(f before adding the vegetables. 

Boil the soup gently, over a moderate fire, and when well 
skimmed, draw it to the side of the stove, and keep it simmer- 
ing till done. 



soups. 33 

The greens and vegetables for soup must be carefully pre- 
pared, that is, picked clean and washed. Those mostly used 
are carrots, onions, parsley, turnip, celery, tomatoes, ochras, 
cabbage, cauliflower, green beans, peas, and potatoes. The 
proportion may be as follows : 

An onion, a large carrot, a bunch of parsley, and two tur- 
nips ; one head of celery, an onion, two small turnips, and five 
or six small potatoes ; or five or six tomatoes skinned and the 
seeds squeezed out, one onion, a bunch of parsley, and five or 
six potatoes cut small ; or carrot, cabbage, turnip, tomatoes, 
and potatoes. With lamb, use green peas and new potatoes. 

In the preparation of vegetables, carrots, turnips, onions and 
potatoes should be cut into thin slices, and nfay be quartered, 
if preferred ; cabbage should be shaved thin, and celery should 
be cut in lengths of half an inch. Pearl barley, rice flour, or 
rice may be used to thicken. 

Except for white soups, to which arrow-root is, we think, 
more appropriate, we prefer, to all other ingredients generally 
used for this purpose, the finest and freshest rice-flour, which 
after being passed through a lawn-sieve, should be thoroughly 
blended with the salt, pounded spices, catsup, or wine, required 
to finish the flavoring of the soup. Sufficient liquid should be 
added to it very gradually to render it of the consistency of 
batter, and it should also be perfectly smooth ; to keep it so, 
it should be moistened sparingly at first, and beaten with the 
back of a spoon until every lump has disappeared. The soup 
should boil quickly when the thickening is stirred into it, and 
be simmered for ten minutes afterward. From an ounce and 
a half to two ounces of rice-flour will thicken sufficiently a quart 
of soup. 

To brown soup, take two lumps of loaf-sugar in an iron 
spoon ; let it stand on the stove till it is quite black, and put 
it into soup. 

B* 3 



34 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

MEAT SOUPS. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Take a knuckle of veal, separated into three or four pieces, a 
slice of ham as lean as possible, a few onions, thyme, cloves, 
and mace; stew twelve or fourteen hours until the stock is as 
rich as the ingredients can make it ; an old fowl will make it 
much richer, if added. This soup must be made the day be- 
fore it is required. When removed from the fire, after being 
sufficiently stewed, let it cool, and then remove the fat; add 
to it four ounces of pounded blanched almonds, let it boil 
slowly, thicken it with a half a pint of cream and an egg ; it 
should boil slowly for half an hour, and then be served. 

GRAVY SOUP. 

Take a leg of beef, well wash and soak it, break the bone, 
and put it into a saucepan with a gallon of water, a large bunch 
of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced and fried to a nice 
brown, taking great care they are not burut, two blades of 
mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty of 
black pepper ; stew till the soup is as rich as you wish it to 
be ; then take out the meat ; when it is cold take off the fat, 
heat the soup with vermicelli, and the nicest part of a head of 
celery boiled and cut to pieces, cayenne, and a little salt ; car- 
rot may be added with turnip, cut into small pieces, and boiled 
with spinach, or the herbs without the vermicelli, or vermicelli 
only ; add also a large spoonful of soy and one of mushroom 
ketchup; a French roll should be made hot and put into the 
soup. 

BEEF GRAVY. 

Cut a piece of the cheek or neck into pieces, strew some 
flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the 
saucepan with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little 



soups. 35 

allspice, a little pepper, and some salt; cover it close, and when it 
boils skim it ; then throw in a small crust of bread, or raspings, 
and stew it till the' gravy is rich and good ; strain it off, and pour 
it into a sauce boat. 

GRAVY CLEAR. 

Slice some beef thinly ; broil a part of it over a very clear, 
quick fire, just enough to give color to the gravy, but not to 
dress it ; put that with the raw into a tinned stewpan with a 
couple of onions, one or two cloves, whole black pepper, ber- 
ries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover it with hot 
water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times, then 
cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Saw the shin bone of beef weighing four pounds into short 
pieces, to expose the marrow, which will give richness to the 
soup. Then wash in cold water. Rub into the meat a table- 
spoon full each of salt and pepper, well mixed. It is then ready 
for the pot, in which put four quarts of water. Bring it to a 
boil over a moderate fire ; then remove whatever scum may 
have risen, after which cover it close, and set it where it will 
boil very gently for two hours longer ; then skim it again, and 
add to it the vegetables, which should be properly prepared, 
viz : one large carrot, one large turnip, one onion, one bunch 
of parsley, six small potatoes, and a teacup full of pearl barley ; 
cover it, and let it boil gently for one hour, at which time add 
another tablespoon full of salt, and a thickening made of a 
tablespoon full of wheat flour and a gill of water ; stir it in by 
the spoon full ; cover it for fifteen minutes, and it is done. 
The meat may be served with the soup. Remove the bones, 
and lay it closely and neatly on a dish, and garnish with sprigs 
of parsley ; serve made mustard and catsup with it. It is very 
nice pressed and eaten with mustard and vinegar or catsup. * 



36 PRACTICAL CUOKERV. 

SAGO SOUP. 

Take three pounds of lean beef, a slice of lean ham, and lay 
them in a stewpan with a lump of butter ; draw the gravy 
gently ; add two quarts of water, and a sliced onion which has 
been browned by frying in fresh butter ; add a bunch of sweet 
herbs, six cloves, a blade of mace, a teaspoon full of allspice, 
and one of black pepper, whole ; stew until the soup is rich 
and brown ; then remove the meat, and strain the soup clear ; 
put it into a clean stewpan ; thicken it to a good consistency with 
sago. 

I3AKED SOUP. 

Cut into slices a pound and a half of lean beef, put it into a 
stewpan or earthen jar, .and two onions sliced, the same num- 
ber of carrots, cut up ; add also three ounces of rice, which has 
been soaked two hours previously, and thoroughly washed, a 
pint of white peas; season with pepper and salt; cover down 
close, and bake two hours. 

CURRY SOUP. 

Cut the meat from an ox-cheek, and soak it well ; put in a 
stewpan, with three onions cut in slices, and a bunch of pot 
herbs ; add three quarts of water ; remove the scum frequent- 
ly, and strain ; add half a pound of soaked rice, one teaspoon 
full of curry powder, a little pepper and salt, and stew four 
hours. 

SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

Stew a brisket of beef, with some turnips, carrots, onions, and 
celery, all cut small ; put the beef into the pot first, then the 
roots ; add a few cloves, and a half pint of beef gravy ; sim- 
mer an hour ; add sufficient beef gravy to fill the pan ; boil 
pently for half an hour. 



soups. 37 

hessian soup. 
Cut into slices three pounds of shin of beef, lay it in a stew- 
pan, put in three onions, five carrots, eight potatoes, a pint and 
a quartes of split peas, three heads of celery, some whole pep- 
per, and salt ; pour in by degrees seven quarts of water ; stew 
until reduced to half. If the soup alone be required, strain off 
the vegetables ; if not, serve as cooked. 

MACCARONI SOUP. 

To a rich beef or other soup, in which there is no seasoning 
other than pepper or salt, add half a pound of small pipe mac- 
caroni ; boil it in clear water until it is tender ; then drain it, 
and cut it in pieces of an inch length ; boil it for fifteen min- 
utes in the soup, and serve. 

FRENCH SOUP. 

To one quart of milk add, when boiling, about five boiled 
Irish potatoes, rubbed through a sieve, of which a paste is made ; 
when the milk and potatoes have boiled up once, add three 
well beaten eggs, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. If 
it boils after the eggs are added, it is apt to curdle ; stir it 
round till it is well mixed, and serve it up. 

PORTABLE SOUP. 

There are many advantages connected with this soup, which 
will present themselves to the lady housekeeper — its constant 
readiness for use, its forming an excellent stock for gravies, 
sauces, or soups ; a few minutes will suffice to make a basin 
of soup from it 

Take three pounds of beef, a shin of beef, the bones of which 
should be broken, a cow-heel, and two small knuckles of veal, 
put them into a stewpan, and add as much water as will barely 
cover them ; put in three onions, and seasoning to taste ; stew 
the meat to ribbons ; strain, and then put it in the coldest 



38 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

place you can command ; when thoroughly cold, take off the 
fat, and boil it fast in a stewpan without the lid, on a quick 
fire ; let it boil, and keep it stirred for at least eight hours ; 
pour it into a pan, and let it stand for twenty -four hours ; then 
take your largest lip-basin, and turn the soup into it ; boil suf- 
ficient water in the stewpan to reach as high outside the basin 
which is placed in it as the soup is inside, but do not let any 
bubble into the basin ; keep the water boiling until the soup 
is reduced to a good consistency ; it will then be done ; it 
should be poured into small jelly-pots, or in saucers, so as to 
form cakes when cold, and is best preserved in tin canisters, 
put in dry, cool places. 

This soup may receive various flavors of herbs, or anything 
else, by boiling the herbs or other ingredients, and straining 
them through water, making it boil, and then melt the soup in it. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Swell one-quarter of a pound of vermicelli in a quart of 
warm water ; then add it to a good beef, veal, lamb, or chicken 
soup or broth, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; let 
the soup boil for fifteen minutes after it is added. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Cut a neck of mutton into four pieces ; put it aside ; take a 
slice of the gammon of bacon, and put it in a saucepan with a 
quart of peas, with enough water to boil them ; let the peas 
boil to a pulp, and strain them through a cloth; put them 
aside ; add enough water to that in which is the bacon to boil 
the mutton ; slice three turnips, as many carrots, and boil for 
an hour slowly ; add sweet herbs, onions, cabbage, and let- 
tuces, chopped small ; stew a quarter of an hour longer, 
sufficient to cook the mutton ; then take it out ; take some 
fresh green peas, add them with some chopped parsley, and 



soups. 39 

the peas first boiled, to the soup ; put in a lump of butter 
rolled in flour, and stew till the green peas are done. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Joint a chicken, wash the pieces, put them into a stewpan 
with three pints of water, and add two ounces of rice, two or 
three blades of mace, some white pepper, whole, and a pinch 
of salt ; let it come to a boil, skim frequently, simmer for 
three hours ; boil for five minutes in the soup some vermicelli, 
and serve with it in the soup. 

EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

To a half pint of milk put two well-beaten eggs, and as 
much wheat flour as will make a smooth, rather thick batter, 
free from lumps ; drop this batter, a tablespoon full at a time, 
into boiling soup. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Take the yolk of six hard boiled eggs and half a tablespoon 
full of wheat flour; rub them smooth with the yolk of two 
raw eggs and a teaspoon full of salt ; mix all well together ; 
make it into balls, and drop them into the boiling soup a few 
minutes before taking it up. 

SOUPS OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

PIGEON SOUP. 

Take half a dozen of the fattest pigeons you can get, roast 
them only sufficient to warm them through ; cut the meat from 
the bones ; flour the latter well, and pound them in a mortar ; 
stew them in a pint and a half of good gravy ; add a piece of 
butter rolled in flour, a few onions, parsley, and a few turnips 
and carrots sliced ; season with cayenne and one blade of 
mace ; boil slowly two hours ; pour and pass through a cul- 
lender ; rub through a sieve, and then with the flesh of the 



40 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

pigeons put them into a saucepan. Let it simmer one hour, 
and serve. 

PARTRIDGE SOUP. 

When you have a brace of partridges which prove to be re- 
markably old, convert them into soup ; skin and cut them up ; 
cut a handsome slice of ham, as lean as possible, and divide it 
into four, or cut as many thin slices, put them in the pan ; add 
the partridges, with an onion sliced, some celery, and four 
ounces of butter ; brown nicely, without burning ; put them 
into the stewpan, with one quart and a pint of water ; throw 
in a few white peppers whole, a shank of mutton ; salt it to pal- 
ate, and strain ; add stewed celery, fried bread, and previous to 
its boiling, skim very clean, and serve up. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil two pounds of veal or lamb, and one small chicken ; 
cut up in three quarts of water; skim it clear ; slice two white 
onions, grate two small carrots, and put to the soup ; add two 
tablespoons full of salt, and one of pepper ; let it boil gently 
for nearly two hours ; then add a tablespoon full of butter, 
and the same of flour worked together ; cover it for fifteen 
minutes, and serve it in a tureen. Place the chicken in a deep 
dish; add butter and pepper to it, and serve, garnished with 
sprigs of parsley ; the meat may be made into balls, and put 
in the soup ; chop it fine ; add a tablespoon full of butter and 
flour each, and a saltspoon full of pepper, with one beaten egg ; 
dip your hands in flour, and make the preparation in balls ; 
drop them into soup with the butter and flour. 

calf's head soup. 

Boil the head, liver, tongue, brains, &c, the day before wish- 
ing to use it ; take it, when perfectly tender, out of the liquor, 
Rnd aet it away to cool ; skim the liquor while boiling. Take 



soups. 41 

all the bones from the meat ; cut it in small pieces ; put it 
into the liquor, with salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, cloves, and 
a little cayenne ; boil two hours, then add a pint of red wine. 
Boil ten eggs hard ; take five and braid with a little flour and 
butter, to thicken the soup ; the other five cut in slices to gar- 
nish the soup. While the head is cooking, keep a teakettle 
of water boiling, to replenish the pot with. For a small fam- 
ily the head maybe served the first day as a plain, boiled dish, 
with drawn butter. There will be enough left for a good soup. 

FISH SOUPS. 

EEL SOUP. 

Take any number of pounds of eels, according to the quan- 
tity required ; add two-thirds water ; if about three or four 
pounds of eels, add one onion, a small quantity of mace, a lit- 
tle pepper whole, sweet herbs, a crust of the top side of bread ; 
cover down close ; stew till the fish separates ; strain. Toast 
slices of bread deep brown, but not to burn ; cut into triangu- 
lar pieces or squares a piece of carrot two inches long, cut into 
four slices lengthwise ; put into a tureen with the toast ; pour 
the soup on ; boiling cream may be added, thickened with a 
little flour, but it should be rich enough without it. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Fifty large or one hundred small clams will be sufficient. 
In removing them from the shell, carefully preserve the liquor, 
which should be strained, and to it add a quart of milk and 
water each ; if the clams are large, cut each in two, and put 
them into it ; set them over a moderate fire until the clams are 
tender, (about one hour ;) skim it clear ; put to it half a pound 
of soda crackers, broken small, or half a pound of butter crack- 
ers, rolled fine ; cover the pot for ten minutes ; then add quar- 
ter of a pound of sweet butter, and serve hot. 



42 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Extract the meat from the shells of four hen lobster 
have been boiled ; put the spawn aside ; beat the fins and 
small claws in a mortar; then place both in a saucepan, with 
two quarts of water, until the whole goodness of the fish has 
been drawn ; then strain the liquor. Beat in a mortar the 
spawn, a lump of flour, and butter ; rub it through a sieve into 
the soup previously strained ; simmer without boiling, that the 
color may be preserved, ten minutes ; squeeze in the piece of 
a lemon, with a little of the essence of anchovies. 

When this dish is sent to table as a feature, forcemeat balls 
are served with it ; they are made of minced lobster, spawn, 
crumb of French roll, egg, and mace pounded ; roll it in flour, 
and serve in the soup. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mix three pints each of milk and water. Half a pound of 
butter crackers, or soda biscuit (rolled fine) should be added 
with a pint of oysters, (chopped fine,) when the milk and 
water comes to a boil. Let it boil until the flavor of the oyster 
is given to the soup, and the crackers are well swelled ; then 
add salt and pepper to taste, and three pints more of the 
oysters, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; cover it 
for ten minutes more, then serve it in a tureen. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

There are numerous methods of making this soup, the vari- 
ations depending upon the omission or addition of certain 
vegetables, and in the mode of serving the soup, with them or 
without them. The following is as simple and as palatable 
as any. 

Collect whatever vegetables are in season ; take equal quan- 



soups. 43 

tities turnips, carrots, cabbage, spinach, celery, parsley, onion, a 
little mint, &c. ; add plenty of herbs ; cut them fine ; put them 
into the stewpan ; stew gently until the vegetables become ten- 
der, then add two quarts of boiling water ; stew a quarter of 
an hour, and serve. 

Some cooks advocate the introduction of peas, green or white, 
to this soup ; where they are used, they must be boiled until 
tender, in very little water ; then mashed into a very loose 
paste ; the vegetables, having been scalded, are then added, 
and two hours will suffice for stewing ; season it with salt 
and pepper. 

Be careful that it does not burn while cooking, or the whole 
is spoiled. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

Cut your cabbage into four parts, then let them be partly 
boiled ; squeeze them dry, and place them in a large pan or 
dish, so that there may be room betwixt each piece of cabbage, 
to take up soup with a large spoon ; let them boil with as 
much gravy or stock as will cover them ; let them stew for 
two hours before dinner, then put a quarter of a pound of 
butter and a handful of flour into a saucepan, set it over a fire, 
and, keeping it stirred, add two onions minced, and stir it 
again ; then add a quart of veal gravy ; boil it a little, and 
pour it all over the cabbage. If you choose, you may force 
pigeons with good force-meat, made of veal ; fry them, and 
then stew them with the cabbage, putting in with them a lit- 
tle bacon, stuck with cloves ; when it has stewed away, take 
off the fat, soak bread in your dish with gravy or stock ; place 
your fowl in the middle, and the cabbage all around ; gar- 
nish the dish with slices of bacon, and a little cabbage be- 
tween each slice. 



44 PRACTICAL COOKEKV. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP, WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Make a soup of roots, and when strained, boil a pint of green 
peas in the liquor. Choose some middling sized asparagus ; 
cut them in pieces about three inches long ; blanch them in 
boiling water, and then throw them into cold water; drain 
them, and tie them in small bunches ; split the tops, and boil 
them with the peas. When done, make a porridge of them, 
and mix it with the root soup, and garnish with the asparagus. 
Good meat broth may be used instead of the root soup. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP CLEAB. 

Blanch two hundred tops of asparagus, and boil them in 
a good gravy ; serve with slices of bread just hardened by 
the fire. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Put a pint of peas into a quart of water ; boil them until 
they are so tender as easily to be pulped through a sieve. 
Take of the leanest end of a loin of mutton three pounds ; cut 
it into chops ; put it into a saucepan with a gallon of water, 
four carrots, four turnips, cut in small pieces ; season with 
pepper and salt. Boil until all the vegetables are quite ten- 
der ; put in the pulped peas a head of celery, and a sliced onion ; 
boil fifteen minutes, and serve. 

ONION SOUP. 

In two quarts of weak mutton broth, slice two turnips, and 
as many carrots ; strain it. Fry six onions, cut in slices ; 
when nicely browned, add them to the broth ; simmer three 
hours ; skim, and serve. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Stew fine, white celery, cut in small slips, in gravy ; then 
boil it in good gravy. 



sours. 45 

RICE SOUP. 

Steep some fine rice in cold water for an hour, say four 
ounces ; then boil it ; add three quarts of gravy ; add a pinch 
of cayenne, a little salt, and boil five minutes. 

CLEAR PEA SOUP. 

Boil in two quarts of gravy a quart of young peas ; add a 
lettuce, cut fine, and a small sprig of mint. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

To a small quarter of lamb put six quarts of cold water, 
and two tablespoons full of salt. Boil gently for two hours; 
then skim clear ; add a quart of shelled peas, and a little pep- 
per. Let it boil for half an hour, and then add a quart of 
young potatoes, scraped. Cover the pot, and let it boil for 
half an hour longer ; work a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
a dessertspoon full of flour together, and add them to the soup 
ten or twelve minutes before taking it off the fire. Serve 
soup in a tureen, and the meat (with parsley sauce over) on a 
dish. 

PEA SOUP. 

Take one quart of split peas. Put them to soak in a large 
quantity of water over night. In the morning pour off the 
water; put them on to boil in a gallon of water. Have 
a teakettle of boiling water to add, in case it becomes too 
thick. When the peas are very soft, pour them into a cullen- 
der, and rub them through with a wooden spoon. Wash the 
pot that they were boiled in thoroughly, because if any of the 
peas adhere, they will be apt to burn. Then put them back, 
and let them boil slowly, over a gentle fire, till they are suffi- 
ciently thick. 

Take a pound of nice salt pork ; boil it in a separate ket- 



40 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

tie for an hour ; then put it in with the peas, and let it 
boil another hour, to season them. Serve the soup in a 
tureen, and the pork on a dish. Have toasted bread, cut 
in small pieces, to eat with it. 




O^"?* 



CHxVPTER UL 
BEEF. 

OBSERVATIONS ON MEATS. 

In the choice of meats, the ribs, the sirloin and the porter- 
house pieces are the best for roasting. The best steaks are the 
sirloin and porter-house. The round, or buttock, the edge- 
bone, the second round, or mouse-buttock, the shin, the brisket, 
the shoulder, or leg of mutton piece, and the clod may be boiled 
or stewed. The neck is generally used for soup or gravy ; 
and the thin flank for collaring. 

Meat intended to be kept a few days in hot weather, should 
not be salted. Dry it well in a clean cloth, rub ground pep- 



48 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

per plentifully over every part of it first, then flour it well, and 
hang it in a cool, dry place where the air will come to it ; be 
sure always that there is no damp place about it ; when you 
find any, dry it with a cloth ; pepper will secure meat from 
flies. 

If the meat has to be roasted, a clear fire is indispensable ; 
and the fire should also be maintained at one uniform heat by 
the addition of coal, only in small quantities. If the joint is 
large, it should be commenced as far from the fire as the ap- 
paratus will permit, and as it progresses, gradually be moved 
nearer the fire until done ; this will ensure, in large and thick 
joints, the heart of the meat being properly done, while it 
prevents the outer parts from being cooked to a chip. A small 
joint should have a brisk fire, should be well basted, as also 
larger joints; it should be sprinkled with salt, and dredged 
with flour when three parts cooked, but it should be remem- 
bered that this must not be left until the meat is just cooked, 
for the fire is apt to catch the flour, and give it a most disa- 
greeable flavor. 

The time necessary for cooking a joint must depend, of 
course, upon the weight of the joint to be roasted ; experience 
gives not less than fifteen minutes to each pound of meat ; 
where the quantity is very large an extra two or three minutes 
must be given. 

In boiling meat, as much attention must be paid as in other 
process ; if the joint be permitted to boil too rapidly, the cook 
may be satisfied the meat will go to table as liard as it could 
be wished to be tender ; if while cooking it should be allowed 
to stop boiling, it will prove underdone when cut, even though 
more than the usual time be allowed for it to be cooked. The 
meat generally is better for being soaked a short time, and then 
wrapping it in a cloth well floured, if fresh ; if salt, the water 
should be kept free from scum as fast as it appears. All joints 
to be boiled should be put into cold water and heated gradu- 



BEEF. 49 

ally, arid nothing boiled with it save a dumpling, or if beef, 
carrots or parsnips. 

ROAST MEATS. 

In every case where meat is washed before roasting, it should 
be well dried before it is put down to the fire. As soon as 
the fat begins to fall from the meat, put down a clean dish and 
then baste with the dripping as it falls ; the meat should not 
be sprinkled with salt until nearly cooked, or too much gravy 
will be produced. Preserve the dripping ; pour it from the 
dish into some boiling water ; leave it to cool. When cold it 
will be hard, white, and all the impurities will be deposited at 
the bottom. It occasionally happens that the joint cannot be 
sent to table as soon as cooked ; in such case place it on a dish 
upon a fish kettle of boiling water ; place over it a dish cover, 
and spread over all a cloth ; the meat will thus be kept as hot 
as if placed before a fire, but will not be dried, nor will the 
gravy be evaporated. 

BOILING. 

The learned in the art of boiling recommend different times 
for the completion of the process, some allowing fifteen minutes 
to each pound, others twenty. All the best authorities agree 
in this, that the longer the boiling the more perfect the operation. 

When taken from the pot be careful not to let the meat 
stand, but send it to table as quick as possible, or it will darken 
and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roast, cannot be 
served too hot. 

Soft water is preferable to hard, for boiling, The meat 
should be put in cold water, and not in hot, unless for a special 
purpose, as that renders it dark and hard. All meats are best 
cooked by boiling gently, as fast boiling spoils the meat and 
does it no quicker. Salted meats should most particularly be 
slowly boiled— ^in fact it should scarcely simmer ; it is indis 
C 4 



50 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

pensable that the water should cover the meat, consequently 
the dimensions of the pot should be suited to the bulk of the 
joint. The instant the pot boils, it should be skimmed con- 
stantly. 

BROILING. 

The cook must prepare her fire in due time. When ready, 
it should be clear and bright, so clear from black coal and 
smoke that the chop or steak may come from the gridiron 
without blemish or taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuel 
for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke. No gridiron 
should be used but those with fluted bars, which, forming chan- 
nels, the greater part of the fat which otherwise falls into the 
fire, and scorches the steak, is drawn off into a gutter at the 
bottom ; the gridiron should be thoroughly heated, and the bars 
rubbed with beef or mutton suet previously to putting on the 
steak, to prevent its being marked by, or adhering to, the bars. 
A close eye should be kept on the steak to watch the moment 
for turning it, which is repeatedly done during the process. 
The cook must have her dish thoroughly heated to receive the 
broil when done, and the cover hot to place upon it instantly. 
Even when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who 
is to take it to table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost 
its zest. A steak or chop should be briskly cooked, speedily 
conveyed to table, and served with dispatch. 

ROAST BEEF. 

There exists a variety of tastes and opinions respecting the 
most profitable, as well as the choicest, parts of beef, but many 
of them are choice and profitable, too, if cooked with skill ; the 
primest parts are roasted, except the round, which should be 
boiled ; the ribs make the finest roasting joint. 

Where a small quantity is required, it is better for the bones 
to be cut out and the meat rolled ; tins should be done by the 
butcher, who will not only cut cleaner, but skewer the parts 



BEEF. "51 

into a fillet with more firmness and neatness than the cook 
who is not expected to be as expert with the knife and skewer 
as the butcher. The tops of the ribs are frequently cut off 
into pieces of three or four pounds ; this piece, though occa- 
sionally roasted, should be salted ; it is then not unlike in Savor 
to the brisket. 

In roasting the ribs, or any piece of beef, the precautions 
mentioned respecting placing it too near the fire must be ob- 
served, and w T here there is much fat, and it is desired to pre- 
serve it from being cooked before the lean, it may be covered 
with clean white paper skewered over it ; when it is nearly 
done the paper should be removed, a little flour dredged over 
it, and a rich frothy appearance will be obtained. The joint 
should be served up with potatoes and other vegetables ; the 
dish should be garnished round the edge with horse-radish 
scraped into thin curls. This recipe will suffice for all the 
other roasting parts of beef. 

TO COLLAR BEEF. 

Choose the thinnest end of the flank of beef ; it must not be 
too fat or too lean ; the weight will be from eight to ten 
pounds ; let it hang in a cool place twenty-four hours ; when 
the skin appears moist, rub in some coarse brown sugar, and 
in forty-eight hours afterward you may place it in a pan in 
which there is a brine, made of three quarters of a pound o J 
salt and an ounce and a half extract of saltpetre ; rub it well 
with the brine for a week ; take out the bones, the gristle, and 
the inner skin. 

Make a seasoning of sweet herbs, parsley, sage, pepper, 
ground spice, and salt, cover the beef well with it, roll it in a 
cloth, and tie firmly and securely with broad tape ; boil it six 
hours, but boil gently ; take it out, and while hot, without dis- 
turbing the fastenings, place upon it a weight, that when cold 
and unrolled it may retain its shape. • 



52 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

TO COOK THE INSIDE OF A SIRLOIN. 

Take out the inside of the sirloin in one piece, put it into a 
stewpan, and sufficient good gravy to cover it, season with 
mixed spice, pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a spoon full of wal- 
nut ketchup ; more of the latter may be added, if the quantity 
made should require it to flavor ; serve with pickled gherkins 
cut small. 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED. 

If unaccustomed to the use of the knife, the butcher's aid 
may be obtained to cut the fillet which comes from the inside 
of the sirloin, it may be larded or roasted plain ; for high din- 
ners it is larded ; baste with fresh butter. It must be a large 
fillet which takes longer than an hour and twenty minutes ; 
serve with tomato sauce, garnish with horse radish, unless 
served with currant jelly, then serve as with venison or hare. 

ALAMODE BEEF. 

Make a stuffing of a loaf of bread, grated, or rubbed very 
fine, a large hand full of shred beef suet, a nutmeg, a little thyme 
and sweet marjoram, mixed with three eggs, and a little pep- 
per and salt. Make on each side of the beef a number of 
holes with a sharp knife and press in the stuffing. Put the 
whole into a pot with three quarts of water, a little mace, whole 
pepper, some cloves, an onion cut very fine. Stew it over a fire 
without blaze. When the beef is half done, turn it over, and 
skim off as much of the fat as is possible. Just before it is suf- 
ficiently done, mix a little of the liquor with two or three spoons 
full of flour, half a bottle of red wine, (if a large round or 
whole one.) Put some sticks or skewers across the bottom of 
the pot to prevent the beef burning. To make the forced 
meat balls, take a piece of beef with some suet, chop them 
well with a little onion, sweet marjoram, thyme, pepper, salt," 
nutmeg, mace, some crumbs of bread wet with an egg. Make 



BEEF. 53 

the balls and fry them brown ; garnish the dish with them, and 
some hard boiled eggs. 

FILLET, OR ROUND OF BEEF SPICED. 

Get the ribs of beef. Have ready pounded and sifted, some 
cloves, mace, allspice, pepper, a little saltpetre, and salt ; mix 
all well together, rub your beef well, then tie it tightly up into 
a good round fillet ; let it lie for a day or two, then put it into 
the oven to set the meat, then place it in a stewpan with a little 
second stock ; put fat bacon at the bottom of the stewpan, and 
half a pint of port wine, stew it about two hours, according to 
the size, make a very good sauce, reduce the liquor, and take 
off all the fat, until sufficient to make the sauce ; season with 
cayenne pepper and salt ; if approved of, add some hot pickles 
of different colors, the last thing in the sauce. Add a dust of 
sugar to your sauce. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Cut into slices about half an inch in thickness, the underdone 
part of cold boiled, or roast beef, cut a small onion up finely, 
mix it with some crumbs of bread, powdered with pepper and 
salt, and cover the slices of meat with them, then roll, and se- 
cure them with a skewer ; put them into a stewpan, cover them 
with the gravy from the beef mixed with water, stew gently ; 
when tender they are done enough; serve them with beef 
gravy. 

hunter's beef. 

Hang for three days a round of beef of twenty pounds ; at 
the expiration of that time rub it with brine, composed of 
three ounces of saltpetre, twelve ounces of salt, a spoonful of 
allspice, one of black pepper, an ounce of coarse brown sugar ; 
before it is rubbed with this mixture it must be boned, and it 
must be rubbed well every day, turning, for a fortnight. Whei. 



54 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

it is to be dressed put it into a stewpan, pour in a pint of wa- 
ter, shred a quantity of mutton suet, cover the meat with it, 
Jay over it a thick crust, attaching it around the edge of the 
pan ; tie over securely with paper, and bake for six hours in an 
oven moderately heated ; take away the paper and crust, chop 
some parsley very fine, sprinkle it over the beef, and serve it 
cold. It will keep some time ; the gravy will make a good 
flavoring for soups. 

RUMP STEAK STEWED. 

Cut a steak about an inch thick with a good bit of fat, fry it 
over a brisk fire, place it in a stewpan with the gravy, a little 
good stock, a little port wine, and some chopped mushrooms, 
stew gently; when tender put into it some good brown sauce, 
shake it gently about*; dish it, and put scraped or grated 
horse-radish on the top; if for oysters or mushrooms, see 
those sauces ; season with salt, cayenne pepper, and sugar. 

BEEF PALATES. 

Take as* many as required, let them simmer until they 
peel, put them in a rich gravy, stew until very tender. 
son with cayenne, salt, two teaspoons full of mushroom ketcup — 
serve. 

BEEF STEAKS BROILED. 

Be particular that the fire is clear ; it is of no use to attempt 
to broil a steak over a dull, smoky, or flaring fire ; see that the 
gridiron is clean, and the bars rubbed with suet preparatory t<> 
laying on the steak ; when they an- browned, turn them: 
not be afraid of doing this often, as this is the best plan to pre- 
serve the gravy. When they are done rub them over with a 
piece of fresh butter, pepper and salt them, and send them to 
table with oyster sauce, a dish of nicely cooked greens, and well 
boiled potatoes. 



BEEF. 55 

BEEF STEAKS ROLLED AND ROASTED. 

Cut handsome steaks from the rump, and if not sufficiently 
tender let them be well beaten, make a rich stuffing of equal 
parts of ham and veal well peppered, stew it for a short time, 
and pound it in a mortar with bread steeped in milk, a lump 
of butter, and the yolk of two or three eggs ; spread this force 
meat over the steaks, roll them up and tie them tightly, roast 
them before a clear fire. They will occupy an hour and twenty 
minutes to an hour and a half roasting ; baste well with butter 
while roasting, and serve with brown gravy. 

STEWED BEEF STEAKS. 

Stew the steaks in three parts of a pint of water, to which 
has been added a bunch of sweet herbs, two blades of mace, an 
onion stuck with cloves — say three — an anchovy, and a lump 
of butter soaked in flour, pour over a glass of sherry or Ma- 
deira, Stew with the pan covered down, until the steaks are 
tender, but not too much so ; then place them in a fryingpan 
with enough of fresh butter, hissing hot, to cover them, fry 
them brown, pour off the fat, and in its place pour into the pan 
the gravy in which the steaks were stewed ; when the gravy 
is thoroughly heated, and is of a rich consistency, place the 
steaks in a hot dish, pour the sauce over them. The steaks 
should be large, the finest from the rump, and have a due pro- 
portion of fat with them. 

BEEF KIDNEYS STEWED. 

Procure a couple of very fine beef kidneys, cut them in sli- 
ces, and lay them in a stewpan ; put in two ounces of butter, 
and cut into very thin slices four large onions ; add them, and 
a sufficiency of pepper and salt, to season well. Stew them 
about an hour ; add a cup full of rich gravy to that extracted 
from the kidney. Stew five minutes, strain it, and thicken the 



56 PRACTICAL COOKER*. 

gravy with flour and butter, give it a boil up. Serve with the 
gravy in the dish. 

BEEF CAKE. 

Choose lean beef; it should also be very tender; if a pound, 
put six ounces of beef suet ; mince freely, and season with 
cloves, mace, and salt, in fine powder ; put the largest propor- 
tion of salt, and least of mace ; add half the quantity of the 
latter of cayenne ; cut into thin slices a pound of bacon, and 
lay them all round the inside, but not at the bottom of a ba- 
king dish; put in the meat, pressing it closely down ; cover it 
with the remaining slices of bacon ; lay a plate over it, face 
downwards, and upon it something heavy to keep it from 
shifting. If there be three pounds of beef, bake two hours 
and a half; remove the bacon, and serve with a little rich 
gravy. These cakes may be made of mutton, or veal, or 
venison. 

BEEF HEART. 

Wash it very carefully ; stuff it the same as you would a 
hare ; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy and cur- 
rant jelly sauce ; hash with the same and port wine. 

BEEF HEART. 

Let it be thoroughly well cooked, and the skin removed. 
Wipe it daily with a clean cloth; stuff it with veal stuffing; 
roast two hours and a quarter. Make a brown gravy, as for 
hare, and serve with the gravy and currant jelly. 

The most pleasant way to the palate of dressing this dish, 
is to roast the heart for rather less than two hours ; let it get 
cold ; cut it in pieces, and jug it the same as hare. 

BEEF COLLOPS. 

Any part of beef which is tender, will serve to make col- 
lops : cut the beef into pieces about three inches long ; beat 



BEEF. 57 

them flat; dredge them with flour; fry them in butter; lay 
them in a stewpan ; cover them with brown gravy ; put in half 
a small onion minced fine ; a lump of butter rolled in flour to 
thicken, with a little pepper and salt ; stew without suffering 
it to boil ; serve with pickles, or squeeze in half a lemon, ac- 
cording to taste ; serve in a tureen, and hot. 

BRISKET OF BEEF STEWED. 

Take any quantity of brisket of beef required, say eight or 
ten pounds ; cover it with water ; stew till tender ; bone the 
beef and skim off the fat; strain the gravy; add a glass of 
port wine ; flavor with spice tied in a bag. Have boiled vege- 
tables ready ; cut them into squares, and garnish the beef from 
the gravy round it, and serve. 

STEW OF OX-CHEEK. 

Clean and wash it well ; cut off the fleshiest parts, and break 
the bones into an available size ; put it into a stewkettle with 
enough water to cover it; season with salt; the pepper should 
be whole, and with a few cloves, and a blade of mace tied in a 
bag made of muslin ; put it into the water with three onions, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen carrots sliced, a head of 
celery sliced, and four or five turnips of tolerable size ; stew 
from five to seven hours ; before serving, the meat may be 
removed, and the gravy thickened and browned ; serve hot, 
with the meat in the gravy. 

Shin of beef is very excellent, dressed in this fashion. 

BEEF SAUNDERS. 

Wash, and put in a saucepan two pounds of potatoes ; cover 

them well with water, and throw in a hand full of salt ; let them 

just reach the boil, but never actually boil until they are done. 

Peel them, mash them with milk and two ounces of butter ; 

season with cayenne pepper and salt, and lay in a smooth paste, 
C* 



58 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

a sufficiency to cover the bottom of a dish ; upon this lay sli- 
ces cut a moderate thickness of rare beef, very close together. 
Pour two tablespoons full of the richest gravy you have over 
it, and cover with a crust of potatoes, mashed ; bake in a slow 
oven for five-and-forty-minutes. 

The meat may be minced for this dish, and, indeed, is usu- 
ally cooked so for the sake of time ; it occupies half an hour 
only, or less, in cooking. It can be made of mutton as well 
as beef, or of pork or beef sausage meat. 

A BEEF STEW. 

Take two or three pounds of the rump of beef, cut away all 
the fat and skin, and cut it into pieces about two or three 
inches square ; put it into a stewpan, and pour on to it a quart 
of broth ; let it boil ; sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to 
taste ; when it has boiled very gently, or simmered two hours, 
shred finely a large lemon, add it to the gravy, and in twenty 
minutes pour in a flavoring composed of two tablespoons full 
of Harvey's sauce ; the juice of the lemon, the rind of which 
has been sliced into the gravy ; a spoonful of flour, and a lit- 
tle ketchup ; add at pleasure two glasses of Madeira, or one 
of sherry, or port, a quarter of an hour after the flavoring, and 
serve. 

13EEF HASHED. 

Take the bones of the joint to be hashed, and break them 
small ; stew them in a very litttle water, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a few onions ; roll a lump of butter in flour, brown 
it in a stewpan ; pour the gravy to it, and add the meat to be 
hashed ; cut two small onions in thin slices, a carrot also, and 
a little parsley shred finely ; stew gently until the meat is hot 
through, and serve. 



BEEF. 59 

TO DRESS BEEF TONGUES. 

To dress them, boil the tongue tender ; it will take five 
hours ; always dress them as they come out of the pickle, un- 
less they have been very long there ; then tiiey may be soaked 
three or four hours in cold water ; or if they have been smoked, 
and hung long, they should be softened, by lying in water five 
or six hours ; they should be brought to a boil gently, and then 
simmer until tender. 

TO STEW A TONGUE. 

Cut away the root of the tongue, but leave the fat under- 
neath, and salt for seven days. Put it into a saucepan, and 
boil gently until tender, and it will peel easily. Put it into a 
stewpan ; cover it with a rich gravy, into which put a spoon 
full of mushroom ketchup, one of soy, and half a spoon full of 
cayenne pepper. Stew in the gravy a few mushrooms, and 
serve them in the gravy. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. 

To three pounds of beef, very lean, put one pound arid a 
half of suet, and chop very finely ; season with sage in powder, 
allspice, pepper, and salt ; have skins thoroughly cleaned, and 
force the meat into them. 

BEEF BROTH. 

Take a leg of beef, and wash it clean ; crack the bone in two 
or three parts ; put it into a pot with a gallon of water ; skim 
it well ; then put two or three blades of mace in a little bun- 
dle of parsley, and a crust of bread ; let it boil till the beef is 
quite tender ; toast some bread, and cut it into dice ; put them 
into a tureen ; lay in the meat, and pour the soup over it. 

MARROW BONES. 

They must be sawn into convenient sizes ; cover the ends 
with a little dough, made of flour and water, and tie them in 



60 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

a floured cloth; boil them an hour and a half; serve on a 
napkin, with dry toast. 

TRIPE. 

Take two pound's of fresh tripe, cleaned and dressed by the 
tripe-dresser ; cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it in equal 
parts of milk and water ; twenty minutes to half an hour will 
be long enough. Boil in the same water which boils the tripe 
four large onions ; the onions should be put on the fire at least 
half an hour before the tripe is put into the stewpan, and then 
made into a rich onion sauce, which serve with the tripe. 

Tripe is cleaned, dried, cut into pieces, and fried in batter, 
and served with melted butter. 

Tripe is cut into slices ; three eggs are beaten up with 
minced parsley, sweet herbs, onions chopped exceedingly fine, 
parsley, and mushrooms. The tripe is dipped into this mix- 
ture, and fried in boiling lard. 

Tripe may be cut into collops, covered with a mixture of 
parsley, onions, and mushrooms, minced exceedingly fine, and 
fried in clarified or fresh butter. Serve mushroom sauce 
with it. 

Tripe can be stewed in gravy, in which put parsley, onions, 
and mushrooms, or in lieu of the latter, mushroom ketchup. 
Thicken the gravy with flour and butter. When the tripe is 
tender it will be done. A lemon may be sent to table with it. 
After the tripe has been cleaned, boil it perfectly tender ; serve 
with melted butter. If there is more than required, cut in 
small pieces, and put in a stone jar, covering it with vinegar 
and water ; it will keep two or three weeks in a cool place. 
When wanted, stew like oysters. 

SMOKED BEEF. 

One quart of molasses, thick with salt ; one tablespoon full 
of saltpetre. The meat to be well rubbed with this ; then let 
it lie three weeks before smoking. • 



BEEF. 61 

POTTED BEEF. 

To a pound of common salt, put a quarter of an ounce of 
saltpetre, and two ounces of coarse sugar. Kub three pounds 
of lean beef with this, and let it remain in the brine fifty hours. 
Drain and dry it ; pepper it well with black pepper ; put it 
into a pan ; cut half a pound of butter in slices, and lay round 
it ; lay a paste crust over it, and bake it very slowly four hours 
and a half. Let it get cold, and then cut off the meat, being 
careful to separate the stringy pieces from it ; pound it in a mor- 
tar, working up with it four ounces of fresh butter, and some 
of the gravy from the meat when baked, seasoned with ground 
allspice, a little mace and pepper. When the meat has been 
combined with the butter and gravy, until it is worked into an 
even paste, put it into jars, and cover with clarified butter. 



CHAPTER IV. 
VEAL. 

Veal should be fat, finely grained, white, firm, and not over- 
grown. It will be found difficult to keep it long. The fillet, 
the loin, the shoulder, and the best end of the neck, are the 
parts generally selected for roasting; the breast and knuckle 
are more usually stewed or boiled. Steaks or cutlets are cut 
from the les or shoulder. 

The liver may be cut in slices and fried like beef liver, or 
broiled and buttered. Boil the head and serve with a sauce, 
and make soup of the liquor. The head and feet make excel- 
lent jellies. 

THE FILLET OF VEAL. 

The fillet derives much of its pleasant flavor from being 
stuffed. Veal, in itself, being nearly tasteless, the stuffing 
should be placed in the hollow place from whence the bone is 
extracted, and the joint should be roasted a beautiful brown ; 
it should be roasted gradually, as the meat being solid will re- 
quire to be thoroughly done through without burning the out- 
side; like pork, it is sufficiently indigestible without being sent 
to table and eaten half cooked ; a dish of boiled bacon or ham 
should accompany it to table, a lemon, also. 

In roasting veal, care must be taken that it is not at first 
placed too near the fire; the fat of a loin, one of the most del- 
icate joints of veal, should be covered with greased paper; a 
fillet, also, should have on the caul until nearly cooked enough : 
the shoulder should be thoroughly boiled ; when nearly done 
dredge with flour, and produce a fine froth. 



VEAL. 63 

BREAST OF VEAL FORCED. 

x^fler taking out the tendons and all the rib bones, flatten 
and trim the veal, spread it all over with force meat ; sprinkle 
a little pepper and salt over it ; then roll it tightly up and tie 
it ; then put it into a cloth and stew it for several hours ; take 
it up, and take off the cloth and strings ; dry it and glaze it ; 
put some good sauce. 

SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Remove the knuckle and roast what remains, as the fillet ; 
it may or may not be stuffed, at pleasure ; if not stuffed, serve 
with oyster or mushroom sauce; if stuffed, with melted butter. 

LOIN OF VEAL STEWED. 

The clump end is the part to stew. Put it well floured into 
a stewpan with butter ; after the butter has been browned over 
the fire, brown it, and when a good color, pour in enough veal 
broth to half cover it ; put in two carrots cut in pieces, an on- 
ion, a little parsley, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; stew 
it two hours and a half; turn it when half done ; when enough, 
take out the meat, thicken the broth, season it, and pour over 
the veal. 

LOIN OF VEAL. 

Divide the loin, roast the kidney, and place under the fat a 
toast, and serve swimming in melted butter. The chump end 
must be stuffed with the same stuffing as the fillet, and served 
with the same sauce ; those who object to putting the stuffing in 
the joint, may send it to table with balls of stuffing in the dish. 

KNUCKLE OF VEAL STEWED. 

Place your knuckle of veal in a stewpan ; if the knuckle is 
a very large one, it may be divided into two or three pieces for 
the sake of conyenience ; put in the pan with it a few blades 



64 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 



of mace, a little thyme, an onion, some whole pepper, a burnt 
crust of bread, and cover with from three to four pints of 
water ; cover down close, and boil ; when it has boiled, place it 
by the side of the fire and let it simmer for at least two hours ; 
take it up, keep it hot while you strain its liquor, then pour the 
gravy over it, and send it to table with a lemon garnish. 




NECK OF VEAL 

May be boiled or roasted — 
the latter only if it be the best 
end, and sent to table garnished 
as in the engraving- 1 — it may be 
broiled in chops, but is best in a 
pie. 



.. VEAL CUTLETS. 

The cutlets should be cut as handsomely as possible, and 
about three quarters of an inch in thickness ; they should, be- 
fore cooking, be well beaten with the blade of a chopper if 
a proper beater be not at hand ; they should then be fried a 
light brown and sent up to table, garnished with parsley, and 
rolls of thin sliced, nicely fried bacon ; they are, with advan- 
tage, coated, previously to cooking, with the yolk of an egg, 
and dredged with bread crumbs. 



VEAL CUTLETS CURRIED. 

The cutlets may be prepared as for collops by cutting them 
into shape, dipping them into the yolk of eggs, and seasoning 
them with fine bread crumbs about four tablespoons full, two 
spoons full of curry powder, and one of salt ; fry them fn fresh 
butter ; serve with curry sauce, which may be made with equal 
parts of curry powder, flour and butter, worked well together 
into a paste ; put it into the pan from which the cutlets have 



VEAL. 65 

been removed, moisten with a cup full of water, in which cay- 
enne and salt have been stirred ; let it thicken, and serve very 
hot. 

VEAL POT PIE. 

Prepare the meat, which may be from the breast or scrag, 
by cutting it in small pieces or chops, and then put it into the 
pot, adding water to cover, and half a pound of salt pork, or 
tablespoon full of salt. Boil gently and remove the scum as 
it rises, until the meat is tender. Place the whole in a dish 
to cool, and make your crust as follows : Take one quart of 
flour, two teaspoons full of cream of tartar, one teaspoon full 
of salt, one of saleratus or soda, a small piece of butter, and 
mix with milk. Roll out the dough, and line the inside of the 
pot, reserving enough to cover the pie, and a small quantity to 
cut into squares to be placed inside. Strain the water in which 
the meat was boiled, and put it in the pot ; if there is not 
enough nearly to reach the top of the side crust, add water ; 
drop in the bits of paste or dough, dredge in a tablespoon full 
of wheat flour ; add quarter of a pound of butter, cut small, 
unless pork is stewed with the meat, when half as much butter 
is enough ; put in a large teaspoon full of pepper ; then lay 
some skewers across, from one side crust to the other, and put 
on the top crust ; make a slit in the center to let out the steam ; 
cover the pot close, and set it over a moderate fire ; three 
quarters of an hour will bake it ; take care that the fire is not 
so great as to burn it. Half a dozen small potatoes, nicely 
peeled, may be put into the pie with the meat. 

Dish the top crust up first, then take up the meat and gravy 
on another dish ; and lastly, the brown crust from the sides, 
on a dish, with some of the gravy over. Or, take the meat 
into the center of the dish, put the crust around it, and turn 
the gravy over. 

Those who prefer, may omit lining the pot with dough. 

5 



60 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

OLIVES OF VEAL — KOTI. 

Cut some cutlets a moderate thickness from the chump end 
uf the loin of veal ; beat them and trim them, eight or a dozen, 
ling to dish : get some slices of ham or bacon, cover the 
veal with force meat and with the fat, sprinkle between a little 
chopped mushrooms, pepper and salt; roll each up, and tie 
and skewer each; then egg and bread crumb them; bake 
them in the oven with buttered paper over them ; cut the string 
when done, and before you send them to table, draw the 
skewer ; put asparagus sauce, tomato, or mushroom in the dish. 

VEAL COLLOPS 

May be cooked precisely similar to beef collops. 

calf's head. 
Let the head be thoroughly cleaned ; the brains and tongue 
be taken out ; boil it in a cloth to keep it white ; (it is well to 
soak the head for two or three hours previously to boiling ; it 
helps to improve the color;) wash, soak, and blanch the brains ; 
then boil them ; scald some sage, chop it fine, add pepper and 
salt and a little milk ; mix it with the brains ; the tongue, 
which should be soaked in salt and water for twenty-four hours, 
should be boiled, peeled, and served on a separate dish. The 
head should boil until tender, and if intended to be sent to ta- 
ble plainly, should be served as taken up, with melted butter 
and parsley ; if otherwise, when the head is boiled sufficiently 
tender, take it up, spread over a coat of the yolk of egg well 
beaten up ; powder with bread crumbs, and brown before the 
tire, in an oven. 

calves' ears. 
Scald the hair from the cars, and clean them thoroughly ; 
boil them until they are tender in veal gravy, and then blanch 



VEAL. 67 

them in cold spring water. Serve them in chervil sauce, or in 
the gravy thickened and seasoned in which they were cooked. 
A sauce may be made of melted butter, with chervil mashed 
and put in, strained with the butter through a sieve, and white 
sauce added. White sauce is sometimes sent up alone with 
the ears ; in that case it should be flavored with mushroom 
powder. 

BOILED VEAL. 

Veal should be boiled in plenty of water ; if boiled in a 
cloth it will be whiter ; it should be boiled by the same rule 
as -other meats; that is, to be put in when the water is cold, 
and boiled gently till tender; serve with a sauce of drawn but- 
ter, parsley, or oyster sauce ; allow fifteen or twenty minutes 
to each pound of meat. 



They should be very clean ; boil them three hours, or until 
they are tender ; serve them with parsley and butter. 

-FRICASEED. 

Soak them three hours ; simmer them in equal proportions 
of milk and water, until they are sufficiently tender to remove 
the meat from the bones in good sized, pieces. Dip them in 
yolk of an egg, cover them with fine bread crumbs ; pepper 
and salt them ; fry a beautiful brown, and serve in white sauce. 

calf's heart. 
Stuffed and roasted precisely as beef heart. 

calf's kidney 
May be dressed as mutton or beef kidney, or mince it with 
some of the fat ; add cayenne, white pepper and salt; cover 



68 PRACTICAL COOKER Y. 

it with bread crumbs and with yolk of egg • make it up into 
balls and fry in boiling fresh butter ; drain them upon a sieve, 
and serve them upon fried parsley. 

calf's liver. 
Lay the liver in vinegar for twelve hours, it will render it 
firm ; dip it in cold spring water and wipe it dry ; cut it in even 
slices; sprinkle sweet herbs, crumbled finely, over it; add 
pepper and salt, and dredge with flour ; fry in boiling lard or 
butter — the last is preferable ; remove the liver when fried a 
nice brown'; pour away a portion of the fat, and pour in a 
cup full of water with a lump of butter well rolled in flour, in 
which a spoon full of vinegar and cayenne or lemon juice has 
been stirred ; boil it up, keeping it stirred all the while, and 
serve the liver up in it ; thin slices of hot fried bacon should 
be sent to table with it. 



CHAPTER V. 
MUTTON. 

This is a delicate and a favorite meat ; it is susceptible of 
many modes of cooking, and should always be served very 
hot, and with very hot plates, except, of course, in cases where 
it may be sent to table as a cold dish. It is a meat which re- 
quires care in the cooking, which it will amply repay. The 
roasting parts are the better for hanging some time, especially 
the haunch or saddle ; but not for boiling, as the color is apt 
to be injured. The leg and the loin are the superior joints. 
Steaks are cut from the leg ; chops and cutlets from the shoul- 
der, breast, loin, and neck. The leg, loin, scrag, or breast, may 
be stewed. 

If the leg of mutton is roasted, serve with its own gravy, 
with a spoon full of currant jelly or red wine, made hot, in it. 
If boiled, serve drawn butter, parsley, or mock caper sauce, 
with tomatoes stewed, and plain boiled potatoes. 

HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 

The haunch should be hung as long as possible without be- 
ing tainted ; it should be washed with vinegar every day 
while hanging, and thoroughly dried after each washing ; if the 
weather be muggy, rubbing with sugar will prevent its turn- 
ing sour ; if warm weather, pepper and ground ginger rubbed 
over it will keep off the flies. 

When ready for roasting, paper the fat ; commence roast- 
ing some distance from the fire ; baste with milk and water 
first, and then when the fat begins dripping, change the dish, 



70 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

and baste with its own dripping; half an hour previous to its 
being done, remove the paper from the fat ; place it closer to 
the fire; baste well, and serve with currant jell v. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON'. 

This joint, like the haunch, gains much of its flavor from 
han^ini- for some time ; the skin should be taken off, but skew- 
ered on again, until within rather more than a quarter of an 
hour of its being done ; then let it be taken off; dredge the 
saddle with flour; baste well. The kidneys maybe removed 
or remain, at pleasure ; but the fat which is found within the 
saddle should be removed previous to cooking. 

LEG OF MUTTON ROASTED. 

Like the haunch and saddle, it should be hung before cook- 
ing ; should be slowly roasted, and served with onion sauce or 
currant jelly. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON BOXED AND STUFFED. 

The principal skill required in accomplishing this dish is the 
boning ; this must be done with a very sharp knife ; com- 
mence on the under side of the joint, passing the knife under 
the skin until exactly over the bone; then cut down to it; 
pass the knife round close to the bone, right up to the socket ; 
then remove the large bone of the thickest end of the leg. see- 
ing the meat is clear of the bone; you may then draw out the 
remaining bones easily. Put in the orifice a highly seasoned 
forcemeat; fasten the knuckle end tightly over; replace the 
bone at the base of the joint, and sew it in. It must be well 
basted, and should be sent to table with a good gravy. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Must be roasted, and sent to table with skin a nice brown ; 
it is served with onion sauce or currant jelly. This is the plain- 
est fashion ; and, for small families, the best. 



MUTTON. 71 

' LOIN OF MUTTON STEWED. 

Remove the skin ; bone it, and then roll it ; put it in a stew, 
pan, with a pint and a half of water, a piece of butter, sweet 
herbs, and an onion or two ; when it has stewed nearly four 
hours, strain the gravy ; add two spoons full of red wine ; 
serve very hot, with jelly sauce. 

BREAST OF MUTTON. 

May be stewed in gravy until tender ; bone it ; score it ; 
season well with cayenne, black pepper, and salt; boil it, and 
while cooking, skim the fat from the gravy in which it has 
been stewed ; slice a few gherkins, and add, with a dessertspoon 
full of mushroom ketchup ; boil it, and pour over the mutton 
when dished. 

ALAMODE MUTTON A LEG. 

First make a stuffing of bread and pork, chopped fine, sea- 
soned high with pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, and pounded 
cloves. After the meat is stuffed, place some skewers on the 
bottom of the pot ; lay the mutton on them, as they will keep 
it from burning. Put in two onions, two turnips, two carrots, 
sliced, and a little celery ; sprinkle a large quantity of salt on 
the whole, with a little powdered clove, a little mace, and a 
little pepper. Put enough water in the pot to cook it slowly 
four or five hours, without burning. When done, take out the 
meat, and put it in a covered dish by the fire. Skim off all 
the flit from the liquor. Then take a tumbler of port wine, 
thicken it with flour ; put it into the liquor with a little currant 
jelly. When it boils, it is ready to dish. Pour the gravy 
over the meat. 

MUTTON STEAKS. 

The steaks are cut from the thick or fillet end of a lesr of 
mutton, and dressed as rump steaks. 



72 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

Cut from the best end of the loin ; trim them nicely, re- 
moving fat or skin, leaving only enough of the former to make 
them palatable ; let the fire be very clear before placing the 
chops on the gridiron ; turn them frequently, taking care that 
the fork is not put into the lean part of the chop ; season them 
with pepper and salt ; spread a little fresh butter over each 
chop, when nearly done, and send them to table upon very hot 
plates. 

MUTTON CHOPS FRIED. 

The fat in which the chops are to be fried should be boiling 
when the chops are put into it. They should be pared of fat, 
and well trimmed, before cooking ; they should be turned fre- 
quently, and when nicely browned, they will be done ; of 
course, if they are very thick, judgment must be exercised re- 
specting the length of time they will occupy in cooking. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Loin chops make the best cutlets. Take off the vertebras or 
thickest end of each bone, and about an inch off the top of the 
bone; put the chops into a stewpan in which has been previ- 
ously melted a little butter, seasoned with salt ; stew for a 
short time, but not until they are brown, as that appearance is 
accomplished in another manner. Chop some parsley very 
fine ; add a little thyme ; mix it with sufficient yolk of egg to 
coat the chops, which will have been suffered to cool before 
this addition to them ; then powder them with bread crumbs, 
over which a pinch of cayenne pepper has been sprinkled ; broil 
them upon a gridiron, over a clear but not a brisk fire ; when 
they are brown, dish them ; lemon juice may be squeezed over 
them, or the dish in which they are served may be garnished 
with thin slices of lemon in halves and quarters. 



MUTTON. 73 

FILLET OF MUTTON. 

Choose a very large leg ; cut from four to five inches in 
thickness, from the large end of tha leg ; take out the bone, 
and in its place put a highly savory force meat; flour, and roast 
it for two hours, and it will be done ; it may be sent to table 
with the same accompaniments as a fillet of veal, with melted 
butter poured over it, or a rich brown gravy and red currant 
jelly. 

HASH. 

Is made from former dressed mutton, leg or saddle, cut in 
nice thin shaped pieces, and put into some good brown sauce. 

HASHED MUTTON. 

Cut the cold mutton into slices, as uniform in size as possible ; 
flour them ; pepper and salt them ; put them into a stewpan, 
with some gravy made of an onion stewed with whole pepper 
and toasted bread, in a pint of water, to which a little walnut 
ketchup has been added — this gravy should be stewed two 
hours before using — do not let the hash boil ; when it is done, 
add a little thickening of butter, flour, and water, if required, 
and serve up with slices of toasted bread. 

MUTTON LIKE VENISON. 

A haunch or leg will be the most applicable. The joint 
should be hung as long as it can be with safety, and dressed 
exactly like a haunch of venison, and served with the same 
sauces ; but to make the taste more perfectly resemble that of 
venison, it should, after having been hung to the turn, be 
skinned, and laid in a pan with vinegar and water ; two parts 
of the former to one of the latter, not enough to cover it ; put 
in a fagot of herbs, a clove of garlic, a spoon full of whole 
pepper, and a couple of onions, cut in slices ; let it soak three 
days ; dry it well ; hang it for a day, and roast as venison. 
D 



74 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

It may ajso be put into a stewpan, with half a pint of gravy, 
and simmer four hours ; serve with venison sauce. 

MUTTON HAMS. 

These are cut, corned, smoked, and eaten, the same as smoked 
beef or venison hams. 

TO DRESS MUTTON HAMS. 

Soak the ham for five or six hours in cold spring water, un- 
less it has only recently been cured, then one hour will suffice ; 
put it into cold water ; boil gently ; it will be done in two 
hours and a half. It is eaten cold. 

MUTTON KIDNEYS BROILED. 

Skin and split without parting asunder; skewer them through 
the outer edge, and keep them flat ; lay the open sides first to 
the fire, which should be clear and brisk ; in four minutes turn 
them ; sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and when done, which 
will be in three minutes afterward, take them from the fire ; 
put a piece of butter inside them ; squeeze some lemon juice 
over them, and serve as hot as possible. 

SHEEP'S TONGUE STEWED. 

Put them into cold water, and let them boil ; when they 
are sufficiently tender to remove the skin easily, take them 
out ; split them, and lay them in a stewpan, with enough good 
gravy to cover them. Chop parsley, and mushroom, with a 
little onion, finely ; work a lump of butter with it ; add pepper 
and salt to flavor ; stew them in the gravy until the tongues 
are tender ; lay them in a dish ; strain the gravy, and pour it 
hot over the tongues ; serve. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take two or three pounds of neck of mutton ; cut it into 
chops; pare three pounds of potatoes; cut them into thick 



MUTTON. 75 

slices ; put them into a stewpan, with a quart of water, two or 
three carrots ; turnips or onions may be added ; the last are 
seldom omitted ; salt and pepper the mutton when added to 
the gravy ; let it boil or simmer gently for two hours, and 
serve very hot ; its excellence much depends on the last in- 
structions being fulfilled. 



CHAPTER VI 
L A M B . 

Lamb is usually sold by the butcher in quarters. The fore- 
quarter includes the shoulder, neck and breast ; the hind-quar 
ter, the leg and loin. Lamb may be roasted, stewed, hashed, 
fried, boiled, or be made into pie. Lamb may be baked in a 
hot oven nearly to equal a roast. 

FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB, ROASTED. 

This is the favorite, and, indeed, the best joint. Do not put 
it too near the fire, at first ; when it gets heated, baste it well ; 
the fire should be quick, clear, but not fierce ; the usual weight 
of a fore-quarter is between nine and eleven pounds ; it will 
take two hours ; when it is done, separate the shoulder from 
the ribs ; but before it is quite taken off, lay under a large 
lump of butter ; squeeze a lemon, and season with pepper and 
salt ; let it remain long enough to quite melt the butter ; 
then remove the shoulder, and lay it on another dish. 

TO ROAST A LEG OF LAMB. 

The rules laid down for roasting mutton must be scrupu- 
lously observed with respect to lamb ; let it roast gradually, 
and commence a distance from the fire ; a leg of five pounds 
will take an hour and a quarter ; one of six pounds, will take 
an hour and a half. 



LAMB. 77 

TO BOIL A LEG OF LAMB. 

Put it in sufficient clear, cold, soft water, to cover it ; let it 
remain half an hour ; half a hand full of salt may be thrown 
in ; put it into a thin white cloth, which has been floured, and 
boil it in enough water to cover it ; a good sized bundle of 
sweet herbs may be thrown into the saucepan ; if six pounds, 
it will be done in an hour and a half; serve with spinach or 
French beans ; if sent to table cold, lay handsome sprigs of 
parsley about it tastefully ; it may, while hot, be garnished 
with parsley, with thin slices of lemon, laid round the dish. 

STEWED LOIN OF LAMB. 

The Join may be stewed whole or in steaks ; in the former, 
the flap being secured by a skewer, is put into a stewpan, with 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and covered down close ; let it 
simmer one hour ; then turn it ; let it simmer again for an 
hour and a quarter, and then have ready some rich brown 
gravy, hot ; lift out the meat ; pour the gravy over it, and 
send it to table with mint sauce, a lettuce, a few radishes, and 
spring onions. 

TO STEW A BREAST OF LAMB. 

Cut it into pieces ; pepper and salt well ; stew in sufficient 
gravy to cover the meat until tender ; then thicken the sauce ; 
pour in a glass of sherry ; serve on a dish of stewed mush- 
rooms. 

LAMB STEWED WITH PEAS. 

Cut the scrag or breast of lamb in pieces, and put it in a 
stewpan, with water enough to cover it. Cover the stewpan 
close, and let it simmer or stew for fifteen or twenty minutes ; 
take off the scum ; then add a tablespoon full of salt, and a quart 
of shelled peas ; cover the stewpan, and let them stew for half 
an hour ; work a small tablespoon full of w r heat flour with a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and stir it into the stew ; add a 



78 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

small teaspoon full of pepper ; let it simmer together for ten 
minutes. Serve with new potatoes, boiled. A blade of mace 
may be added, if liked. 

SWEETBREADS FRICASEED BROWN. 

Cut them in small pieces; flour, and fry them. When a 
good brown, pour over them a pint of good beef gravy, highly 
seasoned ; stew gently, until the sweetbreads are tender ; add 
a little flour and butter, to thicken ; add mushroom ketchup, 
to flavor ; mushrooms may be substituted, or all may be cooked 
with the sweetbreads. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

Lamb chops and cutlets are cooked in the same manner a.i 
mutton chops and cutlets, but require more care in the cook- 
ing ; they are sent to table with various garnishes, and ar- 
ranged in many forms ; the most simple manner is to garnish 
with crisped parsley. 



CHAPTER VII. 
PORK. 

Pork is like veal — indigestible, at least chemists consider it 
so though some medical men have asserted to the contrary; 
it should at least be thoroughly cooked, to place, if possible, its 
digestibility beyond a doubt. In roasting, or in boiling, ample 
time should be allowed for the joint. Pork is always salted 
for boiling, and is much liked in this form. When sent to table, 
apple sauce should in every case accompany it. 

Pork is in season from October to April. Be sure that it is 
not measly, before using it. Great attention also should be 
given to it when it is in pickle, for if any part of it be long ex- 
posed to the air, without being turned into, or well and fre- 
quently basted with the brine, it will often become tainted du- 
ring the process of curing it. 

Serve with roast pig or pork, mashed potatoes, boiled onions, 
turnips mashed, pickled beets, mangoes or cucumbers, or dressed 
celery and cranberry sauce, stewed apples, or currant jelly. . 

ROAST PIG SERVED WHOLE^ 

When well dressed and washed, prepare a stuffing of chop- 
ped bread seasoned well with pepper, salt, sage and butter, 
soaked enough to make it soft. Fill the body and sew it up 
with strong thread. Flour it well all over, and when the oven 
is well heated through, put it on dripping pans, that will catch 
all the gravy. Let it stand in two or three hours, according to 
the size of the pig. Let it be well crisped and, of course, hand- 
somely brown. When you take it from the oven, mash two 
spoons full of flour, with butter enough to mix well, and dip on 



80 PKACTICAL COOKERY. 

the dripping a little at a time at first, until melted, then ponr it 
on, stirring it until thickened, season it with salt, and add to it 
the brains bruised fine, and then send it to the table. The head 
must be cut off anjd laid upon the platter. 

ROAST PIG. 

Soak in milk some light bread, boil some sage and onions in 
plenty of water, strain it off and chop it all very fine, press the 
milk from the bread, and then mix the sage and onion with 
pepper and salt ; in the bread put the yolk of an egg to bind it 
a little, put this in the inside of the pig, rub the pig over with 
milk and butter, paper it, roast it a beautiful brown, cut off 
the head before it is drawn from the spit, and likewise cut it 
down the back and then you -will not break the skin ; take out 
the spit, cut off the ears from the head, and crack the bone and 
take out the brains, put them m a stewpan with all the inside 
stuffing and a little brown sauce ; dish the pig, the backs out- 
side, and put the sauce in the middle, and some in a boat, the 
ears at each end. 

A LEG OF PORK ROASTED. 

The pork should be young and dairy-fed ; score the skin with 
a sharp penknife ; a little fresh butter is sometimes rubbed over 
the skin to make it brown and crisp without blistering. Chop 
some sage, that has been scalded, very fine, add to it an onion 
parboiled, mix br^ad crumbs and a small portion of apple 
chopped very line, mix [ill together, season with pepper 
and salt, make an incision, separating the skin from the fat in 
the under and fillet end of the leg, and place the stuffing there ; 
the time of roasting will depend upon the size of the leg ; serve 
up with apple sauce. 

LOIN OF POKK 

Should, like the leg, be scored beibre roasting, and well 
jointed to make the chops separate easily, and then roast a- a 



PORK. 81 

loin of mutton ; or it may be put into enough water to cover 
it, simmer until it is nearly done, then take it out, take the skin 
off, coat it well with yolk of egg and bread crumbs ; roast for 
about a quarter of an hour, until it is thoroughly done. 

A FILLET OF PORK TO RESEMBLE "VEAL. 

The fillet should be cut from the leg of a very large pig ; re- 
move the bone and fill the orifice with veal stuffing, roast it 
until it is more than half done, then take some thin broth and 
put it in the stewpan; put in the pork, stew until it is thoroughly 
done, then thicken the gravy and send it to table with force 
meat balls and lemon cut in slices. 

GRISKIN OF PORK. 

Put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover it ; when 
it has boiled take it up, butter, and flour it, and put it before 
the fire to brown ; ten minutes will suffice. 

SPARE RIB OF PORK ROAST. 

You must joint this down the middle, and sprinkle it with 
a little fine sage and salt ; baste and flour it well ; apple sauce 
in a boat. 

CHINE OF PORK. 

This joint is usually sent to table with turkey, it should be 
salted for about sixty or seventy hours previous to cooking, 
and then be roasted ; a chine boiled is as often sent to table as 
roasted, but the latter is usually preferred. 

POKK STEAK. 

This should be broiled the same as beef, except it requires to 

be done slower and much longer. If there is too much fire, it 

will blaze. Cut in around the bone that there shall be nothing 

that has a raw appearance. Season with butter, salt and pep- 

D* 6 



82 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

per. They may be cooked in cutlets like veal, with a little 
powdered sage and hard crumbs, or flour, fried in butter. 

PORK CUTLETS. 

Cut them from a small, delicate loin of pork, bone, and trim 
them neatly, fry them a light brown, put into a small stew- 
pan a little vinegar, and onion chopped very fine, two table- 
spoons full of tomato sauce, and sufficient brown gravy to make 
it tasty ; stew the cutlets in the sauce five minutes, and send 
them to table dished handsomely ; if the cutlets are broiled 
they may be dipped in yolk of egg and bread crumbs, and 
broiled over a clear fire, and served with tomato sauce. 

PORK SAUSAGES FINE. 

Have two-thirds lean and one-third fat pork ; chop very fine. 
Season with nine teaspoons full of pepper, nine of salt, three 
of powdered sage, to every pound of meat. Warm the meal, 
that you can mix it well with your hands; do up a part in 
small patties, with a little flour mixed with them, and the rest 
pack in jars. When used, do it up in small cakes and flour on 
the outside, and fry in butter or alone. They should not be 
covered, or they will fall to pieces. A little cinnamon to a 
part of them will be a pleasant addition. They should be kept 
where it is cool but not damp. They are very nice for 
breakfast. 

SIMPLE SAUSAGES. 

Take three pounds of fresh pork, fat and lean together, with- 
out skin, or gristle, chop it fine as possible, season it with a tea- 
spoon full of black and cayenne pepper mixed, three of salt, 
three or four spoons full of sage ; mix it well together ; have 
the skins very nicely cleaned, and fill them, or lay the meat 
down in a pot. Beef makes very good sausages. 



PORK. 83 

PORK SAUSAGES ENGLISH. 

Take of the fat of pork one pound, that of the loin of a large 
richly fecfpig, or the inward fit of a small one. Chop it finely 
with half a pound of lean pork ; add to it four or five sage 
leaves finely chopped, some lemon thyme in a small quantity, 
and three dessertspoons full of crumb of bread powdered ; be 
careful not to put too much of the latter, as it tends to turn the 
sausages sour if kept. Amalgamate these ingredients well, 
dust on grated nutmeg, mace, and cloves in powder, and finish 
with black pepper and salt, being sure to season well ; the meat 
may then be put into the skins, or may be put in jars covered 
down from the air, to be used for rolls or stuffing, or any re- 
quired purpose. 

All skin must be pared from the fat before chopping, and 
every sinew removed from the lean pork, as well as any bone, 
or anything which may impair the taste when eaten. 

SOUSE. 

Boil it until it is tender and will slip off the bone. If de- 
signed to pickle and keep on hand, throw it into cold water 
and take out the bones ; then pack it into a jar and boil with 
the jelly liquor an equal quantity of vinegar, salt enough to sea- 
son ; cloves, cinnamon, pepper enough to make it pleasant, 
and pour it on the souse scalding hot, and when wanted for use, 
warm it in the liquor, or make a batter and dip each piece in, 
and fry in hot butter. r This way is usually preferred, and is as 
nice as tripe. 

pig's head baked. 

Let it be divided and thoroughly cleaned ; take out the 
brains, trim the snout and ears, bake it an hour and a half, 
wash the brains thoroughly, blanch them, beat them up with 
an egg, pepper and salt, and some finely chopped or pounded 



84 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

sage, and a small piece of butter, fry them or brown them be- 
fore the fire ; serve with the head. 

pigs' feet stewed. 

Clean, split, and boil tender, put them into a stewpan with 
enough gravy to cover them, an onion sliced, a few sage leaves, 
whole black pepper, allspice, and salt ; stew forty minutes ; strain 
off the gravy, thicken with flour and butter, add two spoons full 
of vinegar or one dessertspoon full of lemon pickle ; serve it up 
with the feet 

BAM RASHERS, OR SLICES 

May be toasted, broiled, or fried. May be served with 
spinach and poached eggs, boiled green peas. Stewed with 
green peas, or cut in thin slices, divided in four pieces, each 
piece rolled and fastened with a skewer, roasted, and served 
with peas. They should in all cases be cut an even thickness, 
and cooked without injuring the color. Bacon may be dressed 
in the same variety. 

BOILED HAM. 

Hams, if very dirty, should be soaked about twelve hours, 
then wrapped in a clean cloth, and laid upon stone flags for two 
days, the cloth being kept moistened with clean soft water; this 
will render it tender when cooked ; let it be thoroughly scraped 
and cleaned, and placed in the copper, which in small families 
will be found the most convenient mode of cooking it ; they 
should be put in sufficient water to cover them, which water, 
when the ham is cooked, will be found of the greatest service 
in making stock for soups ; the time it will require to boil will 
depend upon the weight of the ham — a small one three hours 
and a half, which may progress according to the weight to six 
hours; when it is done remove the skin, if possible, without break- 
ing it — it prevents the ham when cold becoming dry ; spread 
,v 'i' the ham bread raspings. 



PORK. 85 

TO BAKE A HAM. 

Put the ham in soak previous to dressing it ; if an old one, 
two hours will be required, but if not very old, an hour will 
suffice. Wipe it very dry, and cover it with a paste about an 
inch in thickness. The edges being first moistened must be 
drawn together, and made to adhere, or the gravy will escape. 
Bake it in a regular, well-heated oven ; it will take from three 
to six hours, according to its weight ; when done remove the 
paste, and then the skin. This must be done while the ham is 
hot. If well baked and not too salt, it will prove of finer flavor 
than if boiled. 

HAM AND EGGS FRIED. 

The slices of ham should first be boiled a trifle. Put a bit 
of lard in the fryingpan. After the slices have been dipped in 
wheat flour or rolled crackers, place them in the hot fat. 
Sprinkle pepper. When both sides are finely browned, dish 
it, with sufficient gravy. Put a bit of lard into the pan. When 
hot, slip the eggs into the fat, avoiding to break the yolk. 
Cook slowly, and separate each egg with a knife. When done, 
place them in a chain around the meat. Spinach boiled and 
pressed free from water and chopped small, may be put on the 
center of a steak dish, lay the fried ham on it, pour the gravy 
over, place the fried eggs around it. Vinegar may be eaten 
with the spinach. 

TO TRY OUT LARD. 

Take the leaf fat from the inside of a bacon hog, cut it small, 
and put it in an iron kettle, which must be perfectly free from 
any musty taste ; set it over a steady, moderate fire, until no- 
thing but scraps remain of the meat ; the heat must be kept 
up, but gentle, that it may not burn the lard ; spread a coarse 
cloth in a wire sieve, and strain the liquid into tin basins, which 



8G PRACTICAL COOKEKr. 

will hold two or three quarts ; squeeze out all the fat from the 
scraps. 

When the lard in the pans is cold, press a piece of new 
muslin close upon it, trim it off at the edge of the pan, and 
keep it in a cold place. Or it may be kept in wooden kegs 
with close covers. 

Lard made with one-third as much beef suet as fat, is sup- 
posed, by many persons, to keep better; it is better, made in 
this way, for cooking. 

TO MELT LARD. 

Take the inner fat of a newly killed pig and strip off the skin 
completely and carefully, slice it and put it into a jar, and set 
the jar in a pan of boiling water ; let it melt, and when per- 
fectly fluid pour it into dry, clean jars, and cover them closely ; 
it maybe kept some time in a dry place, and when used may 
be mixed with butter for pastry, for frying fish, and many other 
purposes in cooking. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Thoroughly clean the hog's head, split it in two, take out the 
eyes and brains, cut off the nose and cars, and pour scalding 
water over the latter and the head, and scrape them clean. 
Then rinse all in cold water, and put it into water to cover it ; 
let it boil gently, taking off the scum as it rises ; when boiled 
so that the bones leave the meal readily, take it from the wa- 
ter into a large wooden bowl or tray ; take from it every par- 
ticle of bone ; chop the meat small and season to taste with 
silt and pepper, and if liked, a little chopped sage or thyme ; 
spread a cloth in a cullender or sieve ; set it in a deep dish, 
and put the meat in, then fold the cloth closely over it, lay 
a plate on, which may press equally the whole surface. Let 
the weight be more or less heavy, according as you may 



PORK. 87 

wish the cheese to be fat or lean ; a heavy weight by pres- 
sing out the fat, will of course leave the cheese lean. 

When cold, scrape off whatever fat may be found on the 
outside of the cloth, and keep the cheese in the cloth in a 
cool place, to be eaten sliced thin, with or without mus- 
tard and vinegar, or catsup. 







u. N - 



CHAPTER VIII. 



FOUL T R Y . 

Always have good and fat poultry where possible ; in the 
country you may command it. The best sort for the table 
is the Dorking breed ; they are five toed, have white legs, 
and feathers of a grayish white color. 

About three weeks before you want to use them, six or 
twelve fowls, according to your consumption, should be put 
into the coop, and as you kill one or more, replace them, 
to keep up the stock ; for the first week feed them alter- 
nate days with boiled rice and soaked bread and milk ; the 
remainder of the time mix barley meal with the skimmings 
of your stockpot and a spoon full of moist sugar; the win- 
dows of your poultry house must be darkened. 



POULTRY. 89 

Fowls should be carefully drawn, so that the gall blad- 
der is uninjured, and should only be dene through the vent. 

Roast with a brisk and clear fire. A capon will take five- 
and-thirty minutes, smaller fowls a less time in proportion. 
A turkey of fourteen pounds will take two hours ; the time 
will increase or decrease with the weight. The same rule 
applies to geese; a large one will take an hour and a half, 
chickens take half an hour, pigeons ten minutes less. It must 
be understood that the adherence to the time will depend 
on the state of the fire. 

In choosing poultry, the best way to determine whether 
it is young, is to try the skin under the leg or wing ; if it 
is easily broken, it is young ; or, turn the wing backwards ; 
if the joint yields readily it is tender ; a fat fowl is best for 
any purpose. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Remove the vent with the knife ; cut a slit from the end of 
the breast bone, to take out the entrails, taking care not to 
break the gall on the liver, or it must be thrown away. Take 
off the feet, and bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw out 
the string from the leg ; cut a slit in the back of the neck ; 
pass your finger around in front, and draw out the crop ; cut 
the neck short, leaving skin enough to fasten over against the 
back ; wash the inside with cold water ; wipe it dry ; mix a 
tablespoon full of salt with a teaspoon full of pepper ; rub the 
inside well with this, and also the place of the crop. 

Prepare the stuffing with bread, salt, pepper, butter, cinna- 
mon, or nutmeg, or a little lemon peel, or parsley and thyme; 
chop, and mix all well together, with one or two eggs, beaten 
well. With this dressing stuff the body and the breast, and 
sew them with a strong thread. Also fill the crop ; then draw 
the skin of the neck over the back, and fasten it with a skewer ; 
turn the legs close to the body, and run skewers through each 



90 PRACTICAL COOKER Y. 

hip joint, and tie the ends of the legs together. Roast the tur- 
key to a fine brown ; baste it frequently with the liquor in the 
pan. It will be done in one hour and a half; or, if old and 
very large, two hours or more. Make a gravy of drawn but- 
ter and the dripping. Another sauce is made of half a pint of 
oysters, boiled in a pan, thickened with a lump of butter rolled 
in flour. Only let it boil once. Serve this by itself, in con- 
nection with other gravy, for every person does not like oyster 
sauce. 

Take up the roast ; draw the skewers out, and take out the 
threads ; lay it on a dish, on its back, and serve with mashed 
potatoes, turnips mashed, dressed celery, pickles, and stewed 
apples ; cold boiled ham or tongue, for a large dinner. 

Mince pies, for Christmas ; pumpkin and apple pies for 
Thanksgiving. 

BOILED TURKEY. 

The turkey should be prepared as for roasting, with the 
wings twisted over against the back. Stuff the turkey as fol- 
lows : Pour boiling water or milk on wheat bread or mashed 
potatoes ; season high w r ith pepper and salt, and, if liked, a tea- 
spoon full of fine sage or thyme, or a bunch of finely chopped 
parsley ; fill the crop, and turn the skin of the neck over 
against the back, and fasten it with a small skewer. 

Dredge flour over the outside ; tie it in a cloth, and put it in a 
pot of hot (not boiling) water ; cover the pot, and let it boil 
gently about fifteen minutes to the pound ; take off the scum ; 
serve with drawn butter, celery, or parsley sauce. 

Mashed potatoes, turnips or squash, celery, pickles, and 
stewed apples, or cranberry jam, and cold ham or tongue, are 
served with bailed turke 

Oyster stuffing is made as above directed, adding a pint of 
fine oysters to it. S^rve with oyster sauce, poured over, or in a 
tureen. 



POULTRY. 91 

ROAST AND BAKED GOOSE. 

Prepare the goose for roasting the same as turkey. Cut 
wheat bread in slices ; pour hot water over ; then add a tea- 
spoon full of salt, and the same of ground pepper, and a quarter 
of a pound of sweet butter, with a tablespoon full of finely pow- 
dered sage or thyme, if liked. Fill the body ; then sew up the 
slit ; tie the ends of the legs together, or cut a place and put 
them in the body ; pass a skewer through the hips ; put the 
heart and liver between the wings and the body, and fasten close 
to it, with a skewer; split it; put a pint of water in the pan, 
with a teaspoon full of salt, to baste with ; roast by a bright, 
steady, and clear fire, and baste freely, and turn it, after it has 
begun to roast. When nearly done, add a quarter of a pound 
of butter to the pan, and baste with it ; dredge a little flour over 
it ; turn it, that every part may be well done ; allow fifteen 
minutes for each pound of meat. 

If the gravy is very flit, take some of it off; put the pan 
over the fire ; let it become hot ; then stir into it a thin batter, 
made of a teaspoon full of wheat flour and cold water ; stir it 
until it is brown and smooth ; when done, pour the gravy 
through a gravy strainer, into a tureen. 

A goose may be equally well dressed, in a hot oven or stove, 
with the same preparation. It should be placed upon its back, 
in the pan, upon a trivet of muffin rings, with water in the pan, 
and bits of butter over the body. Baste it freely till done. 

Plain boiled or mashed potatoes, mashed yellow turnips, or 
winter squash, apples stewed without sugar, or cranberry jam, 
boiled onions, pickles, and dressed celery. 

Dessert. Apple, pumpkin, custard, or mince pies. 

A young goose may be cut up and made into a pot or 
other pie. 



92 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

TO ROAST DUCKS. 

Ducks should be well plucked, without tearing the skin, all 
the plugs being removed. Some cooks go so far as to skin the 
duck, holding it a minute by the feet in scalding water, that the 
skin may peel easier; clean the insides thoroughly with a little 
warm water, and stuff them with the same stuffing as for goose, 
using, perhaps, a little more bread, for the sake of mildness ; 
roast them before a brisk fire, but not too close ; baste very 
frequently ; they will take from half an hour to an hour ; much 
depends on the age and size ; when the breast plumps they will 
be just done ; serve them with a rich brown gravy. 

TO BOIL DUCKS. 

Clean and pluck them; let the skin be preserved from rents, 
while plucking ; salt them for about thirty hours, previous to 
cooking ; flour a clean white cloth, and boil them in it ; a mod- 
erate sized duck will take about an hour's boiling ; make a rich 
onion sauce with milk, and send it to table with the duck. 
When the duck is boiled fresh, it may be stuffed as for roasting, 
and served with the same description of gravy. 

STEWED DUCK. 

The ducks should be cut into joints, and laid in a stewpan, 
with a pint of good gravy ; let it come to a boil, and, as the 
scum rises, remove it ; season with salt and cayenne ; let them 
stew gently three-quarters of an hour; mix smoothly two tea- 
spoons full of fine ground rice, with a glass of port ; stir it into 
the gravy ; let it have seven or eight minutes to amalgamate 
with the gravy ; dish, and send to table very hot. 

CANVASS BACK DUCKS. 

Canvass back ducks are served in the same manner as wild 
ducks, without the onion in the basting ; as there is no disa- 
greeable taste to destroy, that is not necessary. 



POULTRY. 93 

Canvass back ducks may be served the same as goose or 
tame duck. Roast them according to their size. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Truss the fowl, and stuff it, seasoning to suit the taste. A 
half pint of oysters may be added to the stuffing. Dredge well 
with wheat flour ; then put it into a pot of hot water ; cover it 
close, and let it boil gently, according to its weight and age; an 
old fowl may boil twice as long as a young one ; allow fifteen 
minutes to the pound for a full grown fowl ; take off the scum 
as it rises. Serve with plain boiled or mashed potatoes, and 
drawn butter, parsley, or oyster sauce. 

Pickles and dressed celery are served with boiled fowls; also 
mashed turnips, boiled asparagus, and cauliflower. Boiled ham 
or tongue, or corned beef, is generally served with boiled fowls. 

ROAST FOWL. 

Clean the fowl thoroughly ; roast it twenty minutes, unless a 
very fine one, and then it will take three-quarters of an hour; 
dredge with a little flour, and baste well ; serve with bread 
sauce, or parsley and butter ; egg sauce is sometimes sent to 
table with it. 

If a small lump of salt butter, well covered with black pepper, 
is placed within "the fowl previous to roasting, it will be found 
to improve it, by removing the dryness which is met with in 
the back or side bones, or it may be stuffed. 

Mashed potatoes, tomatoes stewed, mashed turnips, (ruta- 
baga or yellow are best,) dressed celery, or lettuce, pickles, and 
mangoes, are served with roast fowls. Also currant jelly, 
stewed apples, or cranberry jam. 

A fowl may be roasted in a hot stove oven, so as to be nearly 
as fine as before the fire ; baste freely and often, and finish as di- 
rected for roasting. 



94 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

TO FRICASEE A FOWL. 

Cut it in pieces, jointing it well, and boil it tender, with a 
slice or two of pork, cut fine. When nearly done, add half a 
teaspoon full of pepper and salt, to season it. When tendei, 
turn off the water, and add half a pound of butter, or nearly 
that, and let it fry a while. Then take out the chicken, and 
stir in two or three spoons full of flour, previously dissolved 
in cold water, and add the water from the chicken. Let it 
boil, and pour it upon the chicken on the platter. This 
makes a superior dish, and needs no vegetables but mashed 
potatoes. 

FOWL BROILED. 

Separate the back of the fowl, and lay the two sides open ; 
skewer the wings as for roasting ; season well with pepper and 
salt, and broil ; send to table with the inside of the fowl to the 
surface of the dish ; serve mushroom sauce ; it is an admira- 
ble breakfast dish when a journey is to be performed. 

TO GRILL COLD FOWLS. 

Trim the joints that remain, and having dipped them in clar- 
ified butter, spread over them a coating of finely powdered 
bread crumbs, mixed with very finely ground nutmeg, mace, 
cayenne, and salt in small quantities ; lay them upon a clean 
gridiron over a clear fire ; broil gently. 

CHICKEN FOT PIE. 

Boil the chickens tender, or nearly so ; having them cut in 
pieces. Make a rich crust, adding a little saleratus, and an egg 
or two to make it light and puff. Lay it around the sides of 
the pan, and then lay in the chickens; between each layer 
sprinkle in Sour, pepper, salt and butter, with a thin slice of 
paste here and there. Then add the water in which they were 



POULTRY. 95 

boiled, and cover them. They should be baked an hour or an 
hour and a half, according to the size of the pie. 

CHICKENS PULLED. 

Remove the skin carefully from a cold chicken, then pull 
the flesh from the bones, preserving it as whole as you can. 
Flour them well ; fry them a nice brown in fresh butter ; draw 
them, and stew in a good gravy well seasoned ; thicken a short 
time before serving with flour and butter, and add the juice of 
half a lemon. 

CHICKEN AND TURKEY PATTIES. 

Mince some cold chicken or turkey ; put to it some of the 
gravy, or if you have none, line your pie dish with a paste ; 
put in your minced meat ; work some butter and flour to- 
gether, and lay bits all over the meat ; then nearly fill the dish 
with water ; season with pepper and salt, and if liked, a little 
ground mace ; cover with a nice paste, and cook until the crust 
is done. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take two large cold fowls, either boiled or roasted ; cut the 
meat from the bones, in pieces not exceeding an inch in size. 
Cut the white part of two large heads or four small ones of 
fine celery into pieces not more than an inch long ; mix the 
chicken and celery well together ; cover them and set them 
away. 

With a knife mash the yolks of nine hard boiled eggs ; add 
a gill of dry mustard, and mix them well together, with just 
sufficient water to make a smooth paste. Much depends on the 
thoroughness of this mixing ; and great care must be taken 
not to add too much water. 

Place the mixture in a good sized, shallow dish ; add a tea- 
spoon full of cayenne pepper and one of salt, and pour in a 



00 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

pint of sweet oil, a little at a time, mixing it thoroughly in with 
a wooden fork. If the oil is added in too large quantities, 
it will not mix so readily, and it will be more difficult to 
make the dressing smooth. 

When the mixture is perfectly smooth, add a gill of vin- 
egar in the same way as the oil, stirring it in with the fork. 

When the dressing is thoroughly mixed, and smooth, and 
even, cover it, and set it away in a cool place. 

Ten minutes before the salad is to be eaten, take a head 
of lettuce, break off the leaves from the stalk ; add them 
to the chicken and celery ; see that the dressing has kept 
thoroughly mixed, and then pour it over the whole, mixing 
them well together with a wooden fork and spoon. 




CHAPTER IX. 
Q A M E , ETC. 



VENISON THE HAUNCH. 

" The observed of all observers," when venison Epicureans 
sit at table ; it is a joint, if properly kept, properly cooked, 
and served hot, which must prove delicious to the palate. It 
should always hang a considerable length of time ; the deli- 
cacy of its flavor is obtained by hanging, only ; if it be cooked 
while fresh, it will not equal in any respect a haunch of mutton. 

The haunch of venison, when about to be roasted, should 
be washed in warm milk and water, and dried with a clean 
cloth ; if it has hung very long and the skin smells musty, it 
will be the safest plan to remove the skin and wrap the whole 
of the haunch in paper, well greased with fresh butter ; during 
E 7 



98 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

the time it is at the fire, do not be afraid of basting it too much ; 
it will require all the cook is likely to give it ; if it be a buck 
haunch, and large, it will take nearly four hours within five or 
ten minutes ; if comparatively small, three hours and a half 
•will suffice ; if a doe haunch, three hours and a quarter will be 
enough. Remove the paper when it is done enough, dredge 
quickly with flour to produce a froth. Dish it, and serve ; let 
there be nothing with it in the dish; but the gravy should be sent 
to table in its proper dish, accompanied by currant jelly. The 
haunch is not unfrequently roasted in a paste, which in its turn 
is enclosed in paper, removed when the joint is nearly cooked. 
The above is the simplest, and not the least palatable mode 
of sending it to table. 

VENISON STEAKS. 

Cut them moderately thick, and place on a gridiron over a 
slow fire. , When done on both sides, remove them to the plate, 
and on both sides of each sprinkle salt, pepper, powdered 
cloves, butter, and currant jelly, and pile them as compactly as 
possible. This keeps them warm, and furnishes a rich gravy. 

TO HASH VENISON. 

Carve your venison into slices; let them be thin, and put 
them in a stewpan with two small glasses of port wine ; add 
a spoon full of browning, one of ketchup, and an onion stuck 
with cloves ; let it boil, then put in your venison ; make it 
thoroughly hot through. Lay slices of toast, in various shapes, 
in a soup dish ; pour the hash upon it, and serve with currant 

J ell y- 

A SHOULDER OF VENISON STEWED. 

If you should have a very lean shoulder, stew it in prefer- 
ence to roasting ; bone it, cover it with slices of mutton fat, 
which sometimes are first steeped in port to give a richer Ma- 



GAME, ETC. 99 

vor ; roll it up, and bind it tightly. Lay it in a stewpan with 
a quantity of beef gravy, and the bones you have taken from 
the venison ; add two glasses of port, a dessertspoon full of 
whole pepper, and the same quantity of allspice. Cover down 
closely, and simmer until the venison is tender ; take it out 
and remove the fat ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, 
and strain it over the meat. 

NECK AND SHOULDER OF VENISON. 

These joints, or as together they may be termed the haunch 
joint, may be dressed exactly like the haunch, covered with a 
thin paste, and greased paper over that ; it will take two hours 
and a half, or if very large, three hours ; it should be served 
up with venison sauce. 

PHEASANTS. 

Pheasants are rarely stuffed ; it is more customary to send 
them to table accompanied by force meat in the dish ; in many 
cases with the simple gravy only ; the real Epicurean in game 
prefers the flavor of the bird uncontaminated by any accesso- 
ries, save those which just assist to remove the dryness com- 
mon to most game. Pheasants are sometimes larded ; but as 
the flavor is entirely disguised by the taste of the bacon, in- 
corporated with the flesh of the fowl, unless it is done more 
for appearance than palate, we would not advise it. 

In dressing the pheasant, it should be drawn and cleaned as 
other game, and trussed ; should be roasted before a clear, not 
a fierce fire, and will take forty minutes ; it must not be done 
too much, but must not, on any account, be sent to table 
underdone. 

PARTRIDGES 

Are cooked as pheasants ; they should not be stuffed ; grate 
bread crumbs into a shallow dish j place them before the fire 



100 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

to brown, shaking them occasionally, and send them to table 
with the birds. 

PARTRIDGE BROILED. 

Let the partridge hang until longer would make it offensive ; 
split it, and take a soft, clean cloth and remove all the moisture 
inside and out ; lay it upon a gridiron over a very clear fire ; 
spread a little salt and cayenne over it. When it is done, which 
will be in twenty minutes, rub a little butter over it, and send 
it to table with mushroom sauce. 

HARES. 

A hare is nothing if not well hung and well cooked ; a hare 
must be hung very long indeed, to be hung too long. It is 
better for not being paunched for a few days, unless the weather 
is warm and muggy; in no case is it advisable to paunch it 
when first killed. Keep the inside wiped dry, and well pep- 
pered. If the hare is very old, soak it a couple of hours in 
water and vinegar ; then wash it in clean, lukewarm water, to 
take away the acid flavor which might be communicated by 
the vinegar; put in the belly plenty of stuffing, well seasoned ; 
bans the hare some distance from the fire; it should be roasted 
gradually, because, being of a very dry and hard nature, it re- 
quires being thoroughly done, and yet not dried up. 

It should be sent to table with a good gravy in the dish, or 
melted butter ; in both cases gravy should accompany it when 
served, and also currant jelly. 

The stuffing is composed of the liver, scalded and minced ; 
sweet herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and suet, seasoned to tho 
taste. 

RABBITS 

You will roast the same as hares, and, if required to be 
stuffed, melted butter, chopped parsley, and the liver chopped, 
pepper and salt. 



GAME, ETC. 101 

BOILED RABBITS. 

A rabbit should boil only twenty minutes, and boil slowly ; 
if larger than common, an extra ten minutes may be allowed. 
It should be sent to table smothered in onion sauce ; the water 
should be kept free from scum. It is trussed for boiling dif- 
ferently from what it is for roasting. 

PIGEONS ROASTED. 

Veal stuffing for pigeons; it improves the flavor; they must 
be fresh and well cleaned ; butter and parsley may be served 
with them ; but parsley alone as a stuffing, though frequently 
used, is by no means so palatable as the veal stuffing, or one 
made with veal, the fat of bacon, and the crumb of bread soaked 
in milk, and well seasoned. 

Currant jelly, or apples stewed without sugar, dressed cel- 
ery, or any other salad, and mashed turnips or squash, may 
be served with roast birds. 

ROASTED PIGEONS. 

Let your pigeons be picked clean and washed ; then stuff 
the whole inside of the pigeon with fine veal stuffing, if pre- 
ferred ; if not, merely a few bread crumbs and parsley, pep- 
per and salt. 

PIGEONS BROILED. 

Split the backs ; season them highly ; lay them over a clear, 
brisk fire; serve with mushroom sauce. 

PIGEONS STEWED. 

After they are well dressed, put a slice of salt pork and a 
little ball of stuffing into the body of each. Flour the pigeons 
well, and lay them close in the bottom of the pot. Just cover 
them with water, and throw in a piece of butter ; let them 
stew an hour and a quarter if young — if old, longer. This is 



102 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

preferred to roasting, or any other way they can be prepared. 
They may be cooked in the same way without stuffing. 

ROAST WOODCOCK, SNIPE, ETC. 

Dress them well. Put a bit of butter, pepper and salt, 
mixed, into the body, or fill with mashed potatoes, seasoned with 
a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, and moistened with milk; cut off 
the pinions at the first joint; fasten the legs close to the ribs, and 
turn the head backward, sticking the bill between the leg and 
the body ; rub over with pepper and salt, and hang on bird 
spits, and set them before a hot fire ; baste with a cup of wa- 
ter and butter ; dredge flour or rolled cracker over, and baste 
continually for the last five minutes; lay slices of toast under 
to catch the dripping, and serve under the birds. 

SMALL BIRDS BROILED. 

After being dressed, split them down the back ; spread 
them flat, and broil them very gently over a bright fire of 
coals ; butter them ; salt and pepper, and serve quickly. 

CUTLETS OF FOWL AND GAME. 

The cutlets are, of course, larger from fowls, &c, than chick- 
ens, but they may be prepared in the same manner. The cut- 
lets are usually taken from the thighs, the wings boned, and 
from the fleshiest part of the body. 

The French serve them with slices of bread fried a light 
brown, and place each cutlet upon a slice, pouring into the dish, 
but not over the cutlets, a rich, brown gravy. 




u.\ 



CHAPTER X. 
SALT AND FRESH WATER FISH. 

OBSERVATIONS ON CLEANING AND DRESSING FISH. 

Before dressing fish of any kind great care should be taken 
that it is well washed and cleansed, but be cautious not to wash 
it too much, as the flavor is much diminished by too much wa- 
ter. When boiling fish, put a little salt into the water to give 
the fish firmness. Be careful to let fish be well done, but not 
to let it break. When very fresh, cod and whiting are very 
much improved by keeping a day, and rubbing a little salt 
down the back-bone. Fresh water fish often have a muddy 
smell and taste, which is easily got rid of by soaking it. 'Af- 
ter it has been thoroughly cleansed in strong salt and water, if 
the fish is not too large, scald it in the same, then dry and 
dress it. 



104 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

Put the fish in cold water, and let it boil very gently, or the 
outside will break before the inside is warm. Put all crimped 
fish into boiling water, and when it boils up, some cold water 
should be put into it to check it and keep it simmering. All fish 
should be taken out of the water the instant it is done, or it will be- 
come woolly. To ascertain when it is done, the fish plate may 
be drawn up, and, if done, the meat will leave the bone. To 
keep it hot, and to prevent it losing its color, the fish plate 
should be placed across the fish kettle, and a clean cloth put 
over the fish. 

Small fish may be nicely fried plain, or done with egg and 
bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the 
fish is to be served should be placed a damask napkin, folded, 
and upon this put the fish, with the roe and liver ; then garnish 
the dish with horseradish, parsely and lemon. 

To broil or fry fi?h nicely, after it is well washed it should be 
put in a cloth, and when dry, wetted with egg and bread 
crumbs. Then have your pan with plenty of boiling dripping 
or lard, put your fish into it, and let it fry rather quickly, till 
it is of a nice brown and appears done. If it is done before 
being nicely browned, it should be taken from the pan, placed 
on a sieve before the fire to drain and brown. Should you 
Try your fish in oil, it obtains a much finer color than when 
done in dripping or lard. Butter makes the fish a bad color. 
Garnish with green or fried parsley. 

In broiling fish, be careful that your gridiron is clean.; when 
hot rub it over with suet to hinder the fish from sticking. The 
fish must be floured and seasoned before broiling. It must 
be broiled over a clear fire only, and with great care. 

Fish are boiled, fried, broiled, baked, stewed, in tact cooked 
in every imaginable fashion. In every kind the greatest atten- 
tion and cleanliness must be exercised. A broken, disfigured, 
abrased, or ill-cooked dish of fish presented at table, is quite 
sufficient to destroy the taste for it forever. 



nsH. 105 

All salt fish require to be soaked in cold water before cook- 
ing, according to the time it has been in salt. When hard and 
dry, it will require thirty-six hours soaking, before dressing ; 
the water must be changed three or four times. 

Oysters must be fresh and fat to be good. They are in sea- 
son from September to May. 

The small ones, such as are sold by the quart, are good for 
pies, fritters, or stews ; the largest of this sort are nice for fry- 
ing or pickling for family use ; the largest for frying, broil- 
ing, &c. 

FRESH COD BOILED. 

The thickness of this fish being very unequal, the head and 
shoulders greatly preponderating, it is seldom boiled whole, 
because in a large fish the tail, from its thinness in comparison 
to the upper part of the fish, would be very much overdone. 
Tie up the head and shoulders well, place it in the kettle with 
enough cold water to completely cover it ; cast in a hand full of 
salt. The fish, if a small one, will be cooked in twenty minutes 
after it has boiled, if large it will take half an hour. 

Serve with plain boiled potatoes and drawn butter, parsley, 
or egg sauce. 

Garnish with sprigs of parsley ; lay a folded napkin on the 
dish under the fish. 

BAKED COD. 

Cut a large fine piece out of the middle of the fish ; skin it 
carefully ; stuffit with a stuffing composed of the yolks of two 
eggs boiled hard, the roe half-boiled, bread crumbs, grated 
lemon peel, butter, pepper, and salt, to taste. Bind it with 
the undressed white of an egg, sew in the stuffing with white 
thread. Bake it in a Dutch oven before the fire, turn it fre- 
quently, and baste it with butter ; serve with shrimp sauce, 
plain butter, or oyster sauce. A tin baking dish is preferable 
to any other for cooking this fish. 
E* 



106 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

BROILED FRESH COD. 

Split the fish by the backbone ; cut each side into pieces 
three inches wide ; roll in flour and broil it over a clear, brisk 
fire of coals ; lay the inside to the fire first. Have ready a 
dish, with a quarter of a pound of butter, in which is worked 
of salt and pepper each a teaspoon full ; lay the pieces of fish 
on as they are done ; turn them in the butter and serve. Or 
let the fish be cut across m steaks, of an inch in thickness, and 
finish in the same manner. 

CRIMPED COD. 

Cut the cod, which should be quite fresh, in handsome slices, 
and lay it for about three hours in spring water salted ; a little 
vinegar must be added, say one wine-glass full ; make a fish 
kettle more than three parts full of spring water, in which a 
large hand full of salt has been thrown, let it boil quickly, put 
in the cod, keep it boiling for ten minutes, it will then be 
enough ; take up the slices of fish with care, and lay them upon 
a fish plate ; garnish with sprigs of parsley, sliced lemon, horse- 
radish scraped into curls ; serve with shrimp and oyster sauce. 

cod's head. 

Secure it well with a strong string, not too thick ; put it into 
a fish kettle ; cover it with water ; put in a small hand full of 
salt, a wine glass full of vinegar, a quantity of scraped horse- 
radish. Place the fish upon a drainer, and when the water boils, 
put it into the kettle. Boil gently ; when the fish rises to the 
surface, it is enough ; drain it, and be very particular in sliding 
the fish into the fish plate, that it is not broken. 

Garnish with scraped horseradish and lemon. Serve with 
shrimp and oyster sauce. 

COD OMELET. 

Break into small pieces the thickest parts of a dressed cod, 
season it with a little grated nutmeg and a little pounded mace, 



FISH. 107 

beat up six eggs well and mix with it, forming it into paste, 
fry it as an omelet and serve as hot as possible. 

STEWED SALT COD. 

Scald some soaked cod in boiling water for ten minutes ; 
scrape it, pick in flakes, and put it in a stewpan, with a table- 
spoon full of butter worked into the same of flour, moisten it 
with milk ; stew gently for ten minutes ; add pepper to taste, 
and serve hot ; put it in a deep dish, slice hard boiled eggs over, 
and sprigs of parsley around the edge. Serve for breakfast, 
with coffee and tea, and rolls or toast. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Soak the codfish and boil it ; then chop it fine, add equal 
quantity of potatoes, mashed ; moisten with beaten eggs or 
milk and a bit of butter ; pepper it, and make it into round 
flat balls ; roll in flour slightly, and fry in hot lard or beef 
drippings until of a nice brown ; fry gently, and turn over. 
Serve for breakfast. 

FISH BALLS. 

Chop the fish very small, add some grated bread, parsley, 
pepper, salt, a little butter, and an egg. Mix all well together, 
and make into balls ; fry them brown. 

CODFISH TOAST. 

Pick the fish in pieces, and soak it in cold water until suf- 
ficiently fresh, then drain it well, and stir into it a tablespoon 
full of flour, half a teacup full of sweet cream, and two thirds 
of a teacup of milk, and one egg. Season it well with pep- 
per, and let it scald slow, stirring it well. Make a nice moist 
toast, well seasoned, and lay it on the platter, with the fish over 
it, and it is ready for the table, and is a fine dish. Made as 
above, without toast, is also good; with vegetables, butter 
may be used instead of cream. 



108 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

BUTTERED CODFISH. 

Pick and soak as above ; drain ; have a piece of butter as 
large as an egg, melted and hot. Stir into the fish a spoon 
full of flour to absorb all the water, and then lay it into the 
hot butter, stirring it well about five minutes ; then lay it upon 
the platter, pepper, and send it up. This, some prefer to any 
other mode of preparation. 

PLAIN BOILED SALT CODFISH. 

Soak the fish twelve or fifteen hours. In the morning take 
it from the water, and clean it nicely with a brush. Put it in- 
to the fish kettle, and rub over it a teacup full of molasses ; 
cover it with water, and let it boil fifteen minutes ; set your 
kettle back, where it will keep warm. Half an hour before 
dinner, put it on, and let it boil again. Slip it carefully from 
the strainer, on to a dish, and cover with a white napkin. Serve 
with melted butter, and hard boiled cuss. If these directions 
are followed, the fish will always be tender. 

TO BOIL HADDOCKS. 

Clean them very thoroughly, and take off the heads and the 
skin, put them into boiling water, throw in two moderate sizef- 
hands full of salt, let them boil as fast as possible, and when 
they rise to the surface (which they will do, if they have sud 
ficient room,) they are done enough. They are sent to table 
with plain butter for sauce. 

TO STEW HADDOCKS. 

Bone, cut off the heads, tails, fins, and do the trimming neatly, 
of two or three haddocks, or as many as are required, put them 
in three pints of water, with a teaspoon full of pepper corns, 
and a large onion, stew slowly five-and-thirty minutes, strain 
the gravy off, take up the fish, dredge it with flour, fry it brown 
over a clear fire, and replace it in the stock ; add half a tea- 



FISH. 109 

spoon full of cayenne pepper, squeeze in half a lemon, a table- 
spoon full of ketchup, and stew till the gravy is of a rich con- 
sistency. These quantities are for three haddocks. 

HADDOCK TO BROIL. 

Flour it, broil it a fine brown over a quick, clear fire ; the 
higher you are able to place the gridiron the better ; serve 
with lobster sauce. 

HERRINGS. 

Herrings are dressed in a variety of fashions ; they are fried, 
boiled, broiled, dried, potted, baked, smoked, pickled. 

There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and red her- 
rings; they are cleaned like any other sort of fish ; when fresh 
they are boiled and served with melted butter, white sauce, 
&c.; the salted herring should be soaked in cold water before 
it is cooked ; this is broiled : sometimes it is cut in pieces and 
eaten raw ; the red herring is split down the back, the head 
and tail taken off, and the fish broiled like the others ; they may 
be also dressed in the following manner : when they have laid 
in cold water some time, soak them in milk for two hours, 
then split them down the back, have ready some melted but- 
ter in which has been mixed the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and 
nutmeg, rub the herrings well with this bread, then broil them 
over a gentle fire ; serve with lemon juice ; the best red her- 
rings are full of roe, and firm and large, and have a yellow cast ; 
of the fresh herrings the scales are bright, if good, the eye is 
full and the gill red ; the fish should be stiff. 

FRESH HERRINGS BROILED. 

To broil them, steep them first in vinegar and water, into 
which a hand full of salt has been thrown; let ihem remain 
ten minutes, take them out and broil them over a clear fire, 
(the bars of the gridiron should be rubbed with suet, to pre- 
vent the skin of the fish adhering to it.) Serve, garnished with 



110 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

parsley. They may be eaten with melted butter, with a little 
mustard and vinegar in it, or lemon juice instead of the latter, 
being preferable. 

H ALIB UT STEWED. 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of fish broth, a tablespoon 
full of vinegar, and one of mushroom ketchup, two good sized 
onions cut in quarters, a bunch of sweet herbs; add a pint and a 
half of water, let it stew an hour and a quarter, strain it off 
clear, put into it the head and shoulders of a fine halibut and 
stew until tender ; thicken with butter and flour, and serve. 

TO STEW LOBSTERS. 

Extract from the shells of two lobsters, previously boiled, 
all the meat ; take two-thirds of a quart of water, and stew the 
shells in it, with mace, unground pepper, and salt. Let it boil 
an hour or more, till you have obtained all that is to be had 
from the shells ; then strain. Add the richest portion of the 
lobster and some of the best of the firm meat to some thin 
melted butter; squeeze a small portion of lemon juice into it; 
add a tablespoon full of Maderia ; pour this into the gravy, and 
when warmed, it is ready, to serve. 

TO ROAST LOBSTERS. « 

Take live lobster ; half boil it ; remove it from the kettle 
in which it is boiling ; dry it with a cloth ; while hot, rub it 
over with butter ; set it before a good fire ; baste it with but- 
ter ; when it produces a fine froth, it is done ; serve with 
melted butter. 

LOBSTER COLD. 

Take the fish from the shell ; divide it in small pieces ; mash 
the scarlet meat ; prepare salad of cayenne pepper, salt, vine- 
gar, and mustard. Add oil, if liked. Mix the lobster with 
this preparation, and serve. 



FISH. Ill 

FRESH MACKEREL BOILED. 

Cleanse the fish thoroughly, inside and out ; remove the roe 
carefully ; steep it in vinegar and water, and replace it ; place 
the fish in water from which the chill has been taken, and boil 
very slowly from fifteen to twenty minutes; the best criterion 
is to be found in the starting of the eyes and splitting of the 
tail ; when that takes place, the fish is done ; take it out of the 
water instantly, or you will not preserve it whole. Garnish 
with fennel or parsley, and either, chopped fine in melted but- 
ter, serve up as sauce. Gooseberry sauce is occasionally sent 
to table, but it does not suit every palate. 

TO BROIL FRESH MACKEREL. 

Cleanse it well, and cut with a sharp knife a gash from head 
to tail, just sufficiently on one side to clear the back bone ; 
pass into the incision a little pepper (cayenne) and salt, moist- 
ened with clarified butter ; broil it over a clear fire ; be partic- 
ular that the bars of the gridiron are well rubbed over with 
suet, to prevent the skin of the mackerel adhering in turning ; 
the sides, being the thinnest part, will be first done ; take off 
the gridiron, and hold it in front of the fire for five minutes, 
the back of the fish being next the fire, and the fish will be 
thoroughly done ; this is the readiest and most effective mode. 
Sauces same as for boiled mackerel. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak them two days, inside down, in cold water, changing 
the water once or twice ; when fresh enough, clean thoroughly, 
and wipe dry. It may then be fried or broiled, or boil in a 
little water. Serve the fish with bits of butter over it. 

SCALLOP OYSTERS. 

Wash clean some bottom shells of the oysters, if you have 
not silver shells or scallop shells ; butter and bread crumb 



112 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

them ; blanch your oysters ; either do them whole or cut 
them ; make a thick sauce with the liquor, adding a good 
spoon full of . white sauce ; season with cayenne pepper and 
salt ; fill in the shells and bread crumbs on the top, and sprinkle 
clarified butter on the tops ; brown in the oven ; dish them 
upon a napkin. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 

Large oysters not opened ; a few minutes before they are 
wanted, put them on a gridiron, over a moderate fire. When 
done, they will open ; do not lose the liquor that is in the shell 
with the oyster ; send them hot upon a napkin. 

BAKED OR SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Grate a small loaf of stale bread. Butter a deep dish well, 
and cover the sides and bottom with bread crumbs. Fill the 
dish half full of oysters, with a little ground mace and pepper. 
Cover them with crumbs and small bits of butter, strewed over 
them. Then fill up the dish with oysters ; season them, and 
cover them as before, with crumbs and butter. If the oysters 
are fresh, pour in a little of the liquor : if they are salt, substi- 
tute a little water. Bake them a very short time. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

They should be only boiled a few minutes. Add to them 
a little water, salt, a sufficient quantity of butter, and pepper ; 
roll crackers fine and stir in. Some prefer toast of bread, laid 
in the bottom of the dish, with less cracker. They should be 
served hot. 

STEWED OYSTERS ANOTHER. 

The oysters should be rinsed in their own liquor, which 
should be then strained and thickened with flour and butter, 
and placed with the oysters in a stewpan ; add mace, and 
some white pepper, whole ; these ingredients had better be 



FISH. 113 

confined in a piece of muslin. The stew must only simmer ; 
if it is suffered to boil, the oyster will become hard ; serve 
with slices of bread. This may be varied by adding a glass 
of wine to the liquor, before the oysters are put in and 
warmed. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

The liquor should be separated from the oysters, and strained. 
Add to it half a pint of milk, and two beaten eggs; stir in 
flour, to make a smooth, thin batter; add the oysters; fry in 
lard, boiling hot. putting in the batter and ore or more oysters, 
with a spoon, at each time. Turn the fritters till brown. 
Serve for breakfast or supper. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Large ones are the best. Wipe them dry ; dip them in 
batter, or roll them in flour, or cracker rolled fine ; fry them 
five minutes, with a little hot lard in the pan, turning them 
over carefully. A little of the liquor may be added to the 
gravy in the pan, after the oysters are cooked ; dish gravy 
with the oysters. 

OYSTERS. 

If eaten immediately upon being opened, neither vinegar 
nor pepper should be taken with them, or the flavor will dis- 
appear in the taste of the vinegar. 

FRIED OYSTERS, TO GARNISH BOILED FISH. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs ; season it a very lit- 
tle ; dip the oysters into it, and fry them to a fine yellow 
brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and 
a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Let them be fine and large, and put them over a gentle fire, 

with their liquor; add a bit of butter ; simmer, and stir, to 

S 



114 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

prevent burning. When plump and white, remove the oys- 
ters; spread them on a thickly folded cloth, on a table, to cool. 
Take of their own liquor half enough to cover them, and as 
much good vinegar ; make it hot ; have ready a stone pot or 
tureen ; put into it a layer of oysters ; over them strew a salt- 
spoon full of ground mace, and a dozen cloves, allspice, and 
whole pepper. Then another layer of oysters, and spice and 
oysters alternately ; then pour over the vinegar and juice. 
They will be fit for use the next day, and will remain good for 
months, in a cold place. They may be put in glass jars or 
bottles ; a little sweet oil put in the top of each, and stopped 
and sealed tight, they will keep good for a year. A bit of 
cotton applied to the top of a bottle, after drawing the cork, 
will absorb the oil. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Line a deep pie plate with pie crust; fill it with dry pieces 
of bread ; cover it over with puff paste ; bake it to a light 
brown, either in a quick oven or bake pan. Have the oysters 
stewed just by the time the crust is done ; take off the upper 
crust ; remove the pieces of bread ; put in the oysters ; sea- 
son them with salt, pepper, and butter. A little walnut cat- 
sup improves the pie, but is not essential ; cover it with the 
crust. 

OYSTCR PANCAKES. 

Mix equal quantities of milk and oyster juice together. To 
a pint of the liquor, when mixed, put a pint of wheat flour, a 
few oysters, a couple of eggs, and a little salt. Drop by the 
large spoon full into hot lard. 

CHOWDER. 

Lay some slices, cut from the fit part of pork, into a deep 
stewpan ; mix sliced onions, with a variety of sweet herbs, and 
lay them on the pork ; bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, 



FISH. 115 

and place them on the pork ; then put a layer of pork ; on 
that a layer of biscuit ; then alternately the other materials, 
until the pan is nearly full ; season with pepper and salt ; put 
in about a quart of water ; cover the stewpan very close, and 
let it stand, with fire above as well as below, for four hours ; 
then skim it well, and it is done. 

FRESH SALMON BOILED. 

Scale and clean, cutting open no more than is necessary. 
Place it in a kettle of cold water, with a hand full of salt. Let 
it boil slowly, but it should be well cooked — about a quarter 
of an hour to a pound of fish. Skim it well, and as soon as 
done, lift it carefully into a napkin, to absorb the moisture, and 
wrap it close. Send to table on a hot dish; garnish with horse- 
radish and curled parsley, or boiled eggs, cut in rings, laid 
round the dish. Oyster sauce is best with fresh boiled fish. 

SALMON ROASTED. 

Take a large piece from the middle of a very fine salmon ; 
dredge well with flour ; and, while roasting, baste it with but- 
ter. Serve, garnished with lemon. 

COLLARED SALMON. 

Cut off the head and shoulders, and the thinnest part of the 
tail, thus leaving the primest part of the salmon to be collared. 
Split it, and having washed and wiped it well, make a com- 
pound of cayenne pepper, white pepper, a little salt, and some 
pounded mace. Rub the fish well with this mixture, inside 
and out ; roll, and bandage with broad tape ; lay it in a sauce- 
pan ; cover it with water and vinegar, one part of the latter to 
two of the former ; add a tablespoon full of pepper — black and 
white, whole — and some salt. Keep the lid closed down. 
Simmer until enough ; strain off the liquor ; let it cool ; pour 
over the fish when cold. 



110 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

SALMON BROILED. 

Cut the fish in slices, from the be>t part; each slice should 
be an inch thick ; season well with pepper and salt ; wrap each 
slice in white paper, which has been buttered with fresh butter ; 
fasten each end by twisting or tying ; broil over a very clear 
fire eight minutes. Serve with butter, or tomato sauce. 

SMOKED SALMON. 

Clean and scale ; cut the fish up the back ; take out the roe 
and the bone neatly. Rub inside and out, with equal parts of 
Havana sugar and salt, and a little saltpetre. Press the fish 
flat, with a board and weights on it two days. Drain from 
the salt; wipe it, and stretch it open, and fasten with a pin or 
stick. Then hang up, and smoke over a wood fire five or six 
days. When used, soak the slices in lukewarm water, and 
broil for breakfast. 

BAKED SHAD. 

In the first place, make a stuffing of the head, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, cloves, and sweet marjoram ; moisten it with the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Stuff the fish; rub the outside with 
the yolk of egg, and some of the stuffing. Lay the fish in a 
deep pan, putting its tail to its mouth. Pour in the pan a lit- 
tle water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Bake two 
hours; pour the gravy round it; garnish with sliced lemon, 
and send to table. Any fish may be baked in this way. 

BROILED SHAD. 

Cut the fish the same as for frying, or merely split it in two ; 
lay it on a gridiron, over a bright, steady fire of coals ; let it 
broil gently; put the inside to the fire first, that it may be 
done through ; have ready a deep dish, with nearly a quarter 
of a pound of sweet butter, and a teaspoon full of salt and pep- 
per each, worked into it ; when both sides of the fish are done, 



FISH. 117 

lay it on the dish ; turn it several times in the butter ; cover 
it with a tin cover, and set the dish where it will keep hot, 
until ready to serve. 

TO BOIL SHAD. 

Split, wash, and dry in a cloth. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Grease the gridiron ; Jay the fish, the outside uppermost, 
over coals, and broil a quarter of an hour or more. Butter it 
well ; season with pepper and salt ; send to table hot. 

STURGEON BROILED. 

Cut a fine piece of the fish ; and, skinning it, divide it into 
slices. Beat up three eggs, and dip each of the slices into them ; 
powder fine bread crumbs, mixed with finely chopped parsley ; 
pepper and salt over them ; fold them in paper, and broil them, 
being careful that the fire is clear. Send them to table with 
essence of anchovies, and soy, accompanied by cold butter. 

STURGEON ROASTED. 

Cut into slices as above, but do not remove the skin ; split 
the pieces; roast tenderly, basting frequently with butter. 
Make a brown gravy ; flavor it with essence of anchovies ; 
squeeze in a quarter of a lemon, and add a glass of sherry ; 
serve up with the fish. 

STURGEON CUTLETS. 

Take off the skin ; cut from the tail piece slices half an inch 
thick ; rub them with salt, and broil over a hot fire ; butter, 
and sprinkle on them cayenne pepper ; or first dip them in 
beaten yolk of egg and bread crumbs, and wrap them up in 
buttered papers, and broil over a clear fire. Send to table 
without the papers. 

EEL.'S BREAD CRUMBED. 

Skin, dress, and cut your fish in pieces two inches long ; 
dry and flour them, and proceed as for other fried fish ; dish 
them on a napkin, with fried parsley. 



118 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

FRIED EELS. 

Skin, dress, and cut into pieces, cleaned nicely, and well 
dried; let them be coated with yolk of egg, powdered with 
bread crumbs ; fry them brown ; serve with parsley and but- 
ter. Garnish with handsome sprigs of parsley. 

BOILED EELS. 

Choose the smallest ; simmer in a small quantity of water, 
into which a quantity of parsley has been put. Garnish, and 
serve with same sauce as the last. 

STEWED TAUTOG, OR BLACK FISH. 

Stuff the fish with pork, onions, bread, salt, and pepper. 
Lay it whole length in the kettle, keeping it well covered, to 
keep in the steam. When it is about half done, pour a little 
melted butter over it. Stew it very slowly for two hours. 
Make a gravy of claret wine, scorched flour, pepper, cayenne, 
and cloves. 

TROUT. 

Scale, gut, clean, dry, and flour ; fry them in butter until 
they are a rich clear brown ; fry some green parsley ; crisp 
and make some plain melted butter ; the butter may be 
poured over the fish, but it is most advisable to send it in a 
butter tureen. 

TROUT STEWED. 

This is a pleasing and delicate dish when nicely stewed. It 
is dressed very much in the fashion of other small fish stewed, 
only that it requires more care, perhaps, in the different pro- 
cesses. 

First wash and clean the fish ; wipe it perfectly dry ; put 
into a stewpan two ounces of butter ; dredge flour in as it 
melts, and add grated nutmeg, a little mace, and a little cay- 
enne. Stew well, and when fluid and thoroughly mixed, lay 



FISH. 119 

in the fish, which having suffered to slightly brown, cover with 
a pint of veal gravy ; throw in a little salt, a small fagot of 
parsley, a few rings of lemon peel ; stew slowly forty min- 
utes ; take out the fish ; strain the gravy clear, and pour it 
over the fish. 

TURBOT. 

Place the turbot, previously to cooking, to soak, in salt and 
water, in which a little vinegar has been poured ; lay it upon 
its back in the fish kettle ; fill the latter three parts full with 
cold water ; throw in a hand full of salt, and a gill of vinegar ; 
let it boil very gradually, and when it boils, add cold water, to 
check ; thirty minutes is sufficient to cook it ; serve it upon a 
cloth, as boiled, with its back to the dish ; garnish tastefully 
with sprigs of parsley, and horse-radish scraped into curls, or 
with fried smelts, or barberries and parsley. Lobster sauce. 

PIKE AND PICKEREL. 

These favorite fish may be stewed, fried, or boiled, in the 
same manner as most other fresh fish. 

SOFT SHELL CLAMS STEWED. 

Take the clams from the shell, and free them from the black 
skin ; wash, and put them in the pan, with a little water ; stew 
over a gentle fire for half an hour; add butter; dredge with 
flour, and salt and pepper to taste ; stir in ; cover ten minutes, 
and serve hot. 

HARD SHELL CLAMS FRIED. 

Get the large sand clams ; wash them in their own liquor ; 
dip them in wheat flour or rolled crackers, and fry in hot lard 
or beef dripping, without salt ; or dip each one in batter made 
as for clam fritters. 



120 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

i 

CHOWDER. 

Fry three or four slices of salt pork till brown ; cut each 
of your fish into five or six slices; flour, and put a layer of 
them in your pork fat ; sprinkle on pepper and a little salt ; 
add cloves, mace, and sliced onions, if you like; lay on several 
hits of your fried pork, and crackers previously soaked soft in 
cold water. Tliis process repeat till you get in all the fish ; then 
turn on water enough to just cover them ; put on a heated 
bakepan lid ; when the fish have stewed about twenty minutes, 
take them up, and mix a couple of teaspoons full of flour with 
a little water, and stir it into the gravy ; also a little butter 
and pepper. Half a pint of white wine, spices, and catsup, 
will improve it. Bass and cod make the best chowder ; black 
fish and clams make tolerably good ones. The hard part of 
the clams should be cut off, and thrown away. 

FISH SALADS. 

All kinds of fish left from the former days, make good sal- 
ads; introduce all the articles as for fish salads, cutting the 
fish, when cold, into thin slices, and using fillets of anchovies. 

FISH FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Take a little uncooked fish ; chop it fine, together with a lit- 
tle raw salt pork ; mix it with one or two raw eggs, a few 
crumbs of bread, and season the whole with pepper and spices. 
Add a little catsup, if you like; do them up into small balls, 
and fry them till brown. 



CHAPTER XI. 
SAUCES. 

Few things require more care than making sauces. As most 
of them should be stirred constantly, the whole attention 
should be directed to them ; the better way is to prepare the 
sauces before cooking tho-;e articles which demand equal care; 
they may be kept hot; butter, and those sauces containing 
eggs, ought never to boil. The thickest stewpans should be 
used for making sauces, and wooden spoons for stirring them. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

To about half a pint of melted butter, put two tablespoons 
flail of good essence of anchovies, with the juice of half a 
lemon. Serve very hot. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, quarter, and core a quarter of a peck of rich, tart ap- 
ples; put them in a stewpan, with a teacup of water; add 
some finely chopped lemon-peel, and a large cup of sugar; 
grate half a nutmeg over, and cover the stewpan ; let them 
stew gently for half an hour, then mash them fine ; add a tea- 
cup of butter, and serve with boiled rice or boiled batter 
pudding. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Cut in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which add a 

few peppercorns, one whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk 

enough to cover it; let it simmer gently by the side of the 

fire, till the bread soaks up the milk ; add a little thick cream ; 

F 



122 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

take out the onion, and rub the whole through a sieve ; make 
it very hot, and serve with game or fowls. 

BREAD SAUCE ANOTHER. 

Take crumbs, of bread, soak them in milk,, and put them 
over the fire with a small piece of butter, a little salt, mace, 
two or three cloves, some whole pepper, and a very little chop- 
ped onion ; stew it slowly until the bread is thoroughly boiled 
up with the milk ; it should be perfectly smooth, and of the 
consistency of drawn butter ; serve with plain boiled fish. 

SAUCE, BROWN. 

Take a pound or two of steaks, two or three pounds of veal, 
some pickings of fowls, carrots and onions ; put all these into 
a saucepan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk fire ; 
when scarcely any moisture remains, put it on a slow fire that 
the jelly may take the color without burning ; and as soon as 
it is brown, moisten it with stock or water; add a bunch 
of green onions or parsley, two cloves; salt it well, and set it 
on the fire for three hours, then strain in ; boil it half an hour 
over a gentle fire ; take off all the fat, and run it through a 
bolting-cloth, or fine sieve. 

CAPER SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Take some melted butter, into which throw a small bit of 
glaze; and when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into 
it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoon full of es- 
sence of anchovies. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Wash and pick a pint of cranberries ; put them in a 
stewpan with a small teacup of water, and a large teacup of 
sugar over ; cover them ; let them stew gently for nearly an 
hour in a sauce dish. 



SAUCES. 123 

COD SAUCE. 

Take a bunch of parsley, a small onion, two cloves, some 
mushrooms, and a bit of butter ; soak all together on the fire, 
adding a small teaspoon full of flour, and milk or cream suffi- 
cient to boil to the consistence of a sauce, and add to it some 
chopped parsley first scalded. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Put into a stewpan a little butter, a little parsley, and a few 
green onions, all cut small ; turn. them a few times over the 
fire ; then add some flour, and moisten with cream or milk ; 
let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour ; strain off the sauce, 
and when you want it for use, put in a litttle butter, some pars- 
ley just scalded and chopped fine, salt, and whole pepper ; then 
thicken the same over the fire ; this may be used with all kinds 
of. dishes that are done white. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Boil three eggs hard ; cut them in small squares, and mix 
them in good butter sauce ; make it very hot, and squeeze in 
some lemon juice before you serve it. 

FRESH PORK SAUCE. 

Cut two or three good sized onions into slices, and fry them 
lightly ; then add a little broth, a few mushrooms chopped, a 
clove of garlic, vinegar and spice ; let it boil half an hour, re- 
duce to a proper consistence, skim and strain it. 

GARLIC SAUCE. 

Take two cloves of garlic, and pound them with a piece of 
fresh butter about the size of a nutmeg ; roll it through a 
double hair sieve, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter, 
or beef gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. 



124 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE, HOT. 

Slice two onions and fry them in oil ; and when they begin 
to color, put them into a saucepan with a glass of white wine, 
the same of broth, two slices of lemon peeled, two cloves of 
garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two cloves ; boil these a 
quarter of an hour, and then strain it ; add capers, and an an- 
chovy chopped, pepper, salt, and a spoon full of horseradish 
boiled to a pulp ; warm the whole without boiling. 

LEMON SAUCE, WHITE, FOR BOILED FOWLS. 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of 
sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon, thyme, and ten white 
peppercorns. ^Simmer it gently, till it tastes well of the lem- 
on ; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of 
butter rubbed into a dessertspoon full of flour ; boil it up ; 
then pour the juice of the lemon, strained, into it, stirring well ; 
dish the fowls, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, 
with the cream, but do not boil them together ; add salt ac- 
cording to taste. 

LEMON SAUCE, FOR PUDDINGS. 

Boil a fresh lemon skin in plenty of water, until a straw 
will penetrate it ; then cut it into slices, and each slice in quar- 
ters ; put to them and the juice a teacup of sugar, and the same 
of butter, with a large teaspoon full of wheat flour, worked 
into it; put all together into a stewpan, and stir in gradually 
half a pint of boiling water; keep it over the fire for ten min- 
utes, stirring it all the time ; then serve, with half a nutmeg 
grated over. 

LEMON CONSERVE. 

Put a half pound of fresh butter into a saucepan ; when 
softened to a cream, add one pound of powdered loaf sugar ; 
then add the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, and the whites of 



sauces. 125 

two, beaten to a froth ; the grated rinds of two lemons, dried 
for a few days in the sun, and the juice of three; stirring the 
whole over the fire until it is of the thickness of good cream. 
Be sure not to let it boil. 

This is excellent with griddle cakes. 

• MINT SAUCE. 

Strip off the leaves, and chop them fine ; add an equal 
amount of sugar, and cover the whole with vinegar. A small 
teacup full of the mixture will be sufficient for a large family. 
Try this,, and see if not far preferable to greasy gravies. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Put the spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a bit of 
butter and well pound it ; then rub it through a fine sieve ; 
put some butter sauce into a stewpan, and the spawn of the 
lobster ; set it on the fire till it is very hot, and looks quite 
smooth and red ; if not smooth, pass it through a sieve ; then 
put in the meat of the lobster, cut into small dices ; make it 
very hot ; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and serve. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Cut some mushrooms into pieces ; press them in a cloth, 
and mince them; do them up in a little melted butter; then 
add some good stock parsley, two cloves of garlic ; skim and 
cook them over a moderate fire for half an hour ; strain ; take 
off the fat, and serve it very hot. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it with a bit 
of mace and lemon peel. In the meantime, throw the oysters 
into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it 
into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a 
little milk, as will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little 
flour with it. 



12G PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

Set them over the fire, and stir all the time, and when the 
butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the 
saucepan near the fire, but not on it ; for, if done too much, 
the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon juice, and 
serve. 

A little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oys- 
ters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. 

* 

ONION SAUCE. 

The onions must be peeled, and then boiled till they are 
tender ; then squeeze the water from them ; chop them, and 
add butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, with a lit- 
tle good milk, instead of water; give it one boil; serve it with 
boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast 
mutton ; a turnip boiled with the onions draws out the strength. 

SWEET SAUCE. 

Work a teacup of sugar into a teacup of butter, with a tea- 
spoon full of flour, and half a nutmeg, grated ; when it is a 
smooth paste, stir gradually into it half a pint of boiling water ; 
set it over the fire for ten myiutes ; stir it all the time; then 
turn it into a tureen, and serve with boiled batter or apple 
puddings. A glass of wine may be added to this, or a lemon 
sliced thin, and cut into dice ; put it in before putting it on 
the fire. 

rUDDING SAUCE. 

Half a pound of sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter, 
rubbed to a cream ; the rind and juice of a lemon. Just he- 
fore it is served, pour over half a pint of boiling wine, stirring 
it all the time. 

SAUCE FOR WILD FOWLS. 

Simmer a teacup full of port wine, the same quantity of 
good meat gravy, a little onion, a little pepper, salt, a grate of 



SAUCES. % 127 

nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for .ten minutes; put a bit of but- 
ter and flour; give it all one boil, and pour it through the 
birds. In general, they are not stuffed as tame, but may be 
done so, if liked. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Haifa pint of cream, a small piece of butter, rolled in flour, 
a wine glass of wine, some nutmeg, and grated lemon peel. 
Stir it over the fire till it boils. ■ 

SUPERIOR SAUCE, FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix six yolks of eggs with four spoons full of sifted sugar 
and butter together; have a pint of boiling cream, which you 
will mix with your yolks ; afterward put it on the fire, and 
stir it until it is of the consistency of sauce ; then add to it a 
good wine-glass of brandy. 

TOMATO SAUCE, FOR HOT OR COLD MEATS. 

Put tomatoes, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar, and 
set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite 
soft ; then separate the skin from the pulp, and mix this with 
vinegar, and a few cloves of garlic, pounded, both of which must 
be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add salt to your 
taste. Keep the mixture in small, wide-mouthed bottles, well 
corked, and in a dry, cool place. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet butter to a cream ; add 
gradually to it a quarter of a pound of fine white sugar, and a 
wine-glass of wine, with half a nutmeg, grated ; continue to 
beat it until it is light and white ; then mould it into a neat 
form, and serve. Lemon or brandy sauces may be marie in 
the same manner, by substituting lemon or brandy for wine. 



128 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

WHITE SAUCE, FOR FRICASEE OF FOWLS, RABBITS, WHITE MEAT, 
FISH, OR VEGETABLES. 

It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favorite sauce, 
as the proportion of that flavor is but small. The water that 
has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit ; or a little broth, that may 
be in the house; or the feet and necks of chickens, or raw or 
dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of 
these, with a bit of lemon peel, some sliced onions, some white 
pepper-corns, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a bunch 
of sweet herbs, until the flavor be good, then strain it and add 
a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour; salt 
to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the 
sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is 
often used in fricassee ; but if you have any cream, it is bet- 
ter, and the former is apt to curdle. 

VENISON SAUCE. 

Haifa pint of port wine, made hot, with a tablespoon full of 
white sugar, the same of currant jelly, and a bit of butter, the 
size of a large egg. 

FARCES AND STUFFINGS. 

For a veal stuffing, chop some suet fine, a little parsley, a 
small piece of onion ; rub through a dry sieve a small quantity 
of marjoram and thyme; add these to your suet; a grating 
of half a lemon, a few grains of nutmeg, a few bread crumbs, 
and one or two eggs ; mix all well together; season with pep- 
per and salt. 

If for game, scrape the raw livers into the stuffing, prepared 
as above, only, in addition, pound it all fine. 

. FORCE MEAT INGREDIENTS. 

Force meat should be made to cut with a knife, but not 
dry or heavy; no one flavor should predominate; according 
to what it is wanted for, a choice may be made from the &>h 



sauces. 129 

lowing list ; be careful to use the least of those articles that 
are most pungent : cold fowl, or veal, or ham, scraped fat ba- 
con, beef suet, crumbs of ..bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs, beaten, to bind the mixture. 
Any of the following articles may be used, to alter the taste : 
oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, pennyroyal, marjoram, 
thyme, yolks of hard eggs, cayenne, garlic, pepper, in powder, 
or two or three cloves. 

F* 9 



• v 




CHAPTER XII. 



VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 



Vegetables form a most important feature in the art of cook- 
ing. Much depends upon boiling greens, and the manner in 
which it is done ; the water should be soft ; a hand full of salt 
should be thrown into the water, which should be made to boil 
before the greens are put in ; it should then be made what 
cooks term " gallop ; " the saucepan should be kept uncovered, 
and wl*# the greens sink they are done ; take them out, and 
quickly, too. Vegetables are a most useful accessory to our 
daily food, and should be made the object of a greater study 
than they are usually. 

Care should be taken in the preservation of vegetables for 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 131 

winter use. Green beans may be preserved by being packed 
ill layers of salt. They should be soaked before being used. 
Carrots, beans, beet-roots, parsnips, and potatoes keep best in 
dry sand or earth in a cellar ; turnips keep best on a cellar 
bottom, or they may be kept the same as carrots, etc. What- 
ever earth remains about them, when taken from the ground, 
should not be taken off. When sprouts come on potatoes or 
other stored vegetables, they should be carefully cut off. 

Celery may be kept in the cellar all winter, by setting it in 
boxes filled with earth. Cabbage keep some time, by being 
laid on a stone floor, in the cellar. 

To keep pumpkin, it should be cut up and dried, or stewed 
and made up into cakes, which should be thoroughly dried in 
the oven or in the sun. 

Parsley should be gathered when young and tender and 
packed in a little sweet butter. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Let the stalks be lightly but well scraped, and as they are 
done, be thrown into cold water ; when all are finished, fasten 
them into bundles of equal size ; put them into boiling water ; 
throw in a hand full of salt ; boil until the end of the stalk be- 
comes tender ; it will be about half an hour ; cut a round of 
bread, and toast it to a clear brown ; moisten it with the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled, and arrange the stalks with 
the white end outward. A good melted butter must accom- 
pany it to table. 

Asparagus should be dressed as soon after it has been cut as 
practicable. 

ASPERGE A LA POIS — FRENCH RECIPE. 

When asparagus is first in season, and too small to make a 
handsome appearance, this mode of dressing is very good : 
take the asparagus and cut off only the green heads ; none of 



132 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

the white stalk must be retained ; put them into clear, cold 
water, and when clean, pop them into boiling water, in which 
salt has been thrown ; in ten minutes they will be tender ; 
the j may then be taken out and laid upon a white cloth, which 
must be used to wipe them dry ; lay in a stewpan a slice of 
butter ; when it is melted, put in the asparagus ; stew them 
over a quick fire; keep them turning ; when ten minutes have 
elapsed, dredge a little flour, and a small quantity of white 
sugar, in powder, over them ; beat up the yolks of a couple of 
eggs; pour over the asparagus just sufficient water to cover 
them ; boil up rapidly ; stir in the yolk of one egg ; and, ma- 
king a pyramid of the asparagus in the dish, serve very hot. 

BEETS. 

Break off the leaves, but do not cut beets, as that spoils both 
flavor and appearance ; wash them and boil them till tender ; 
then take them out into a basin of cold water, and rub all the 
outside skin off, with the hands ; then slice them thin in a dish, 
and just cover them with cold vinegar, and sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt, or quarter them, and lay them for a day or two 
in cold vinegar, as they are then fit for use. The tops of 
young beets are dressed as asparagus. 

BROCCOLI. 

Peel the thick skin of the stalks, and boil for a quarter of 
an hour with salt in the water. The small shoots will only re- 
quire half the time. They should be tied in bunches. Serve 
with toast and melted butter. 

GREEN OR STRINGED BEANS. 

Get young, tender beans ; take off the stem end, and the 
strings from the sides of the beans, and cut them in lozenges 
of an inch length ; then boil them tender in water to cover 
them. Some boil a bit of salt pork with them, or add to 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 133 

them, when dished, butter, salt, and pepper, to taste. Green 
corn, cut from the cob, is cooked with them, and called suc- 
cotash. 

CELERY. 

Scrape and wash it well ; let it lie in cold water until just 
before being used ; dry it with a cloth ; trim it, and split down 
the stalks almost to the bottom. Send it to table in a celery 
glass, and eat with salt only ; or chop it fine, and make a salad 
dressing for it. 

CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWERS. 

Trim off the loose leaves of the cabbage ; cut the stalk in 
quarters, to the heart of the cabbage ; boil it an hour. If not 
boiled with corned meat, put a little salt in the water in which 
they are boiled. White cauliflowers are the best. Take off 
the outside leaves ; cut the stalk close to the leaves ; let them 
lie in salt and cold water for half an hour, before boiling them. 
Boil them fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size. 
Milk and water is the best to boil them in, but clear water 
does very well. Put a little salt in the pot in which they are 
boiled. 

CABBAGE SALAD AND COLD SLAW. 

Take a hard, close head of cabbage ; cut it in two, and with 
a sharp knife shave it fine ; lay it in a dish, and garnish and 
finish as lettuce. For cold slaw, cut it in the same way ; then 
add to it a good bit of butter, some vinegar, pepper and salt 
to taste, and put it in a clean stewpan ; set it on the fire, and 
stir it with a silver spoon until the seasoning is mixed, and the 
butter melted. Serve in a covered dish. 

RED CABBAGE. 

This is eaten as salad, prepared as directed for cabbage salad 
or cold slaw, or it may be shaved fine and pickled. 



134 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots may be plain boiied, and served with a drawn b ■■■ 
ter sauce. They are generally used in soups, sliced or grated 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Take two or three straight cucumbers ; cut off one end ; 
then take out the seeds ; lay them in vinegar, water, pepper, 
and salt; have some good farce, and fill each cucumber with 
it; dry your cucumbers well out of the vinegar first; then 
dry them in a clean rubber; then fry them, if for brown ; if 
for white, not ; take them out of the butter, and put them to 
stew into some good stock, one large onion, a fagot of herbs, 
a slice of lean ham, until tender; thicken the liquor, and 
strain ; season with vinegar, lemon juice, sugar, salt, and white 
pepper; glaze the cucumbers several times. 

GREENS. 

White mustard, spinach, water cresses, dandelions, and the 
leaves and roots of very small beets, are the best greens. Boil 
them, with a little salt and saleratus in the water. If not 
fresh and plump, soak them in salt and water half an hour, be- 
fore cooking them. When they are boiled enough, they will 

sink to the bottom of the pot. 

i 

LETTUCE. 

Strip off the outside leaves; split it, and lay it in cold water 
awhile. Drain and lay in a salad dish. Have ready two 
hard boiled eggs ; cut in two, and lay on the leaves. If you 
choose, it may be dressed with sugar and vinegar, with a lit- 
tle salt, before it goes to the table. Some prefer a dressing 
of salt, mustard, loaf sugar, vinegar, sweet oil, and a mashed 
hard boiled egg, with the salad cut fine and this over it. 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 135 

HOMINY. 

There are three sizes of hominy ; the middle size is best — 
wash a teacup of it well in two or three waters ; all that is not 
good will rise to the top, drain it carefully off; then put to it 
a quart of water, and let it stand all night ; in the morning add 
to it a teaspoon full of salt, and set the vessel which contains 
it over the fire, in a kettle of boiling water ; one hour will boil 
it ; the reason for putting it in water is, that otherwise it is 
very apt to turn ; when it has absorbed all the water, stir it 
well with a spoon and serve. Coarse hominy requires five or 
six hours boiling — dried beans are cooked with it. 

ONIONS. 

White onions are best for boiling. Take off the skins and 
lay them in cold water for an hour or two before boiling. 
When boiled tender serve them with butter, pepper, and salt 
over, or a drawn butter. The red ones are good sliced thin, 
with vinegar, pepper, and salt. Onions may be fried like 
potatoes. 

GREEN PEAS. 

A delicious vegetable, a grateful accessory to many dishes 
of a more substantial nature. Green peas should be sent to 
table green ; no dish looks less tempting than peas if they w r ear 
an autumnal aspect. Peas should also be young, and as short 
a time as possible should be. suffered, to elapse between the 
periods of shelling and boiling. If it is a matter of consequence 
to send them to table in perfection, these rules must be strictly 
observed. They should be as near of a size as a discriminating 
eye can arrange them ; they should then be put in a cullender, 
and some cold water suffered to run through them in order to 
wash them ; then having the water in which they are to be 
boiled slightly salted, and boiling rapidly, pour in the peas ; 
keep the saucepan uncovered, and keep them boiling swiftly 



136 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

until tender; they will take about twenty minutes, barely so 
long, unless older than they should be ; drain completely, pour 
them into the tureen in which they are to be served, and in 
the center put a slice of butter, and when it has melted stir 
round the peas gently, adding pepper and salt ; serve as quickly 
and as hot as possible. 

PEAS STEWED IK CREAM. 

Put two or three pints of young green peas into a saucepan 
of boiling water; when they are nearly done and tender drain 
them in a cullender quite dry ; melt two ounces of butter in a 
clean stewpan, thicken it evenly with a little flour, shake it over 
the fire, but on no account let it brown, mix smoothly with it 
the fourth of a pint of cream, add half a teaspoon full of white 
sugar, bring it to a boil, pour in the peas, and keeping them 
moving until they are well heated, which will hardly occupy 
two minutes, send them to table immediately. 

HOW TO COOK POTATOES TO BOIL POTATOES. 

In Ireland potatoes are boiled in perfection. Potatoes should 
always be boiled in their "jackets;" peeling a potato before 
boiling is offering a premium for water to run through it, and 
go to table waxy and unpalatable; they should be thoroughly 
washed and put into cold water. In Ireland they always nick 
a piece of the skin on" before they place them in the pot ; the 
water is gradually heated, but never allowed to boil ; cold 
water should be added as soon as the water commences boil- 
ing, and it should thus be checked until the potatoes are done, 
the skins will not then be broken or cracked until the potato 
is thoroughly done ; pour the water off completely, and let the 
skins be thoroughly dry before peeling. 

TO BOIL NEW POTATOES. 

The sooner the new potatoes are cooked after being dug, the 
better they will eat ; clear off all the loose skins with a coarse 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 137 

towel and cold water ; when they are thoroughly clean put 
them into scalding water, a quarter of an hour or twenty min- 
utes will be found sufficient to cook them ; strain off the water 
dry, sprinkle a little salt over the potatoes and send them to 
table. If very young, melted butter should accompany them. 

TO BOIL IRISH POTATOES. 

Wash your potatoes, then pare them, and throw them into 
a pail of cold water ; let them stand several hours, if convenient. 
Put them into boiling water, with a little salt, let them boil 
about twenty minutes, or till you can pass a fork through them, 
pour off the water, and let them stand a few moments to dry. 
Take them out one, or if small, two at a time into a clean crash 
towel, and wring them. They will be dry and mealy, as twenty 
years experience has proved. 

ROASTED POTATOES. 

Clean thoroughly ; nick a small piece out of the skin, and 
roast in the oven ; a little butter is sometimes rubbed over the 
skin to make them crisp. 

POTATOES IN HASTE. 

A very nice little dish may be made of potatoes, in about fif- 
teen minutes (or less if the water is boiling ;) peel and cut some 
potatoes in slices, a quarter or half an inch thick ; pour on them 
boiling water, enough to cover them, and let them boil till ten- 
der; skim them; then add butter with flour, worked in it in 
proportion to the quantity of potatoes, let it boil up once, add 
a little chopped parsley, and serve, with the addition of pepper 
to taste. 

FRIED OR BROILED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes, in slices a quarter of an inch thick; 
have ready a fryingpan with hot lard or dripping, in which put 
some salt, lay in the potatoes, and let them fry a delicate 



138 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

brown, turning them as they require, or lay them on a grid- 
iron over bright coals, and as they are done take them on a hot 
dish, with butter, pepper, and salt to taste. 

POTATOES GLAZED. 

Boil well ; skin them ; choose the most floury, roll them in 
yolk of egg, and place them before the fire to brown. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Boil the potatoes floury ; mash them, seasoning with salt 
and a little cayenne; mince parsley very finely and work up 
with the potatoes, adding an onion also chopped small; bind 
with yolk of egg, roll into balls, and fry with fresh butter over 
a clear fire. Meat shred finely, bacon or ham may be added. 

POTATO RAGOUT. 

Mash floury potatoes, make them into balls with yolk of 
egg, flour, and fry them ; drain off all grease, cover them with 
brown sauce, and serve. 

PORRIDGE, OR, SOUP OF POTATOES. 

Mash them ; after having boiled them quite hot, mix them 
with some fine white veal gravy, thicken with cream ; it should, 
when done, be of the consistency of apple sauce. 

TO MASH POTATOES. 

Boil the potatoes as above; peel them, remove all the eyes 
and lumps; beat them up with butter and salt until they are 
quite smooth ; force them into a mould which has been pre- 
viously floured, turn into a tureen, which the flour will enable 
you easily to do; brown them before the fire, turning gently 
so as not to injure the shape, and when a nice color send to 
table. They are sometimes coated with white of egg, but they 
may be cooked without 



VEGETABLES, ETC. • 139 

POTATO BALLS. 

Mash some floury potatoes quite smooth, season with pep- 
per and salt, acid fresh butter until sufficiently moist, but not 
too much so ; make into balls, roll them in vermicelli crum- 
bled, or bread crumbs ; in the latter case they may be brushed 
with the yolk of egg; fry them a nice brown. Serve them on 
a napkin, or round a dish of mashed potatoes which has not 
been moulded. 

SWEET POTATOES BAKED. 

Wash them perfectly clean, wipe them dry, and bake in a 
quick oven, according to their size — half an hour for quite 
small size, three-quarters for larger, and a full hour for the lar- 
gest. Let the oven have a good heat, and do not open it, un- 
less it is necessary to turn them, until they are done. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil four or five parsnips; when tender, take off the skin 
and mash them fine, add to them a teaspoon full of wheat flour 
and a beaten egg; put a tablespoon full of lard or beef drip- 
ping in a fryingpan over the fire, add to it a saltspoon full of salt ; 
when- boiling hot, put in the parsnips, make it in small cakes 
with a spoon ; when one side is a delicate brown, turn the oth- 
er ; when both are done, take them on a dish, put a very little 
of the fat in which they were fried over, and serve hot. These 
resemble very nearly the taste of the salsify or oyster plant, 
and will generally be preferred. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash parsnips and boil them with the skins on ; when done, 
scrape them and slice them with butter, pepper, and salt; or 
fry them as potatoes in hot lard — or they may be stewed 
down with me.it. 

RADISHES. 

Wash them, and let them lie in clean, cold water as soon as 
thej bw i r- »ught in. Before the} 7- go to table scrape off the out- 



140 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

side skin, trim the sharp end. leave the stalk about an inch 
long; if large, split them in four, half way down, and send 
them to the table in tumblers, to be eaten with salt. 

SQUASHES. 

Summer squashes, if very young, may be boiled whole — if 
not, they should be pared, quartered, and the seeds taken out. 
When boiled very tender, take them up, put them in a strong 
cloth, and press out all the water — mash them, salt and but- 
ter them to your taste. The neck part of the winter squash 
is the be>t. Cut it in narrow strips, take off the rind, and boil 
the squash in salt and water till tender — then drain off the 
water, and let the squash steam over a moderate fire for ten 
or twelve minutes. It is good mashed — if mashed, add a little 
butter. 

GREEN SWEET CORN*. 

Corn is much sweeter to be boiled on the cob. If made 
into succota-h, cut it from the cobs, and boil it with Lima beans, 
and a few slices of salt pork. It requires boiling from fifteen 
to thirty minutes, according to its age. 

SEAKALE 

Requires to be very well done — there is little occasion to fear 
doing it too much; tie in bundles after washing and trimming, 
boil it in equal parts of milk and water, and serve it with melt- 
ed butter. It may be laid on toast or not, according to taste. 

After being well bo'led it must be thoroughly drained be- 
fore laving upon the toast; five-and-twenty minutes will be 
found sufficient to boil it. 

PORRIDGE OF TURNIPS. 

Tare and cut up several turnips into slices, put them on to 
boil in milk and water until tender, strain them on the back of 
a sieve, throw away the liquor, and rub through the turnips; 



VEGETABLES. ETC. 141 

when done put them into a stew T pan with a piece of butter, a 
spoon full of flour, a gill of cream, a little sugar, salt, and cay- 
enne pepper. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Pare some large, open mushrooms, leaving the stalks on, 
paring them to a point;' wash them well, turn them on the 
back of a sieve to drain. Put into a stewpan two ounces of 
butter, some chopped parsley, and onions ; fry them for a minute 
on the fire ; when melted place your mushroom stalks upwards 
on a pan, then pour the butter and parsley over all the mush- 
rooms; pepper and salt them well with black pepper, put 
them in the oven to broil ; when done put a little good stock 
to them, give them a boil, and dish them ; pour the liquor over 
them, add more gravy, but let it be put in hot ; an hour and 
a quarter before it is done add four tablespoons full of red wine 
■ o the liquor ; serve very hot. 

SALAD. 

Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, thoroughly wash 
them, and drain the water from them, then cut them into small 
pieces, and mix them with small salad, celery, and beet root; 
cut in small pieces some young radishes, and sliced cucumber, 
and an egg boiled hard cut into pieces and garnished about 
them. Make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, 
which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon ; add a 
little pepper, salt, and mustard ; when these are mixed to a 
smooth paste put in a few teaspoons full of sweet oil, mixing 
it well between each spoon full ; then mix in a few teaspoons 
full of vinegar in the same manner; when the sauce is mixed 
according to the directions, it will never require shaking, and 
will always look like cream ; pour this sauce over the salad, 
or serve it in a cruet. 



142 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTER. 

The best way to cook it. is to parboil it, (after scraping off 
the outside,) then cut in slices, dip it into a beaten egg, and fine 
bread crumbs, and fry it in lard. It is very good broiled, then 
stewed a few minutes in milk, with a little butter and salt. 
Another way which is very good, is to make a batter of wheat 
flour, milk and eggs; cut the salsify in thin slices, (after hav- 
ing been boiled tender.) put them into the batter with a little 
salt; drop this mixture into hot fat, by the large spoon full. 
When a light brown, they are cooked sufficiently. 

TOMATOES 

If very ripe will skin easily ; if not, pour scalding water on 
them, and let them remain in it four or five minutes. Peel 
and put them in a stewpan, with a tablespoon full of water, if 
not very juicy ; if so, no water will be required. Put in a 
little salt, and stew them for half an hour ; then turn them, in- 
to a deep dish with buttered toast. Another way of cooking 
them, which is considered very nice by epicures, is to put them 
in a deep dish, with fine bread crumbs, crackers pounded fine, 
a layer of each alternately ; put small bits of butter, a little 
salt and pepper on each layer — some cooks add a little nut- 
meg and sugar. Have a layer of bread crumbs on the top. 
Bake it three quarters of an hour. 

TOMATOES RAW. 

Tomatoes may be sliced thin, and served with salt, pepper, 
and vinegar over, for breakfast; or sliced, and strewn with su- 
gar and grated nutmeg, for tea ; for dinner they may be stewed, 
or broiled, or baked. 

SOUTHERN MODE OF BOILING RICE. 

Have the water boiling. Allow at least two quarts of water 
to a pint of rice ; throw in a teaspoon full of salt ; wash and 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 143 

pick clean and put in ; let it boil twenty minutes, and if not 
then dry, turn off the water, and let it stand on the coals a few 
moments, with the lid off. The kernels will be white, and 
preferred by many. Use in the place of pudding, with a sweet 
sauce, or with meats as a vegetable. Rice is better for being 
soaked two or three hours. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
POTTED MEATS. 

BEEF POTTED. 

Take three pounds of lean beef, salt it two or three days with 
half a pound of salt and half an ounce of saltpetre, divide it into 
pieces of a pound each and put it into an earthen pan just sufc 
ficient to contain it; pour in half a pint of water, cover it close 
with paste and set it in a slow oven for four hours. When 
taken from the oven pour the gravy from it into a basin, shred 
the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, 
and pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar with fresh butter, 
until it becomes a fine paste ; season it with black pepper and 
allspice, or cloves pounded, or nutmeg grated ; put it in pots, 
press it down as close as possible, put a weight on it and let it 
stand all night; next day, when quite cold, cover it a quarter 
of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper. 

another. 

Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lie 
three or four days, cut in pieces, and boil it, then beat it to a 
powder, mixing it with some fat ; add spice, put it in pots, and 
pour butter over it. 

BEEF POTTED LIKE VENISON. 

Take a whole thin flank of beef, pull off the inward skin, and 
cut it across, particularly in the thickest parts lay it for six 
hours in water, take as much saltpetre as the quantity of an 
egg, mix with about two pounds of white salt, and rub it well 



POTTED MEATS. 145 

into the meat ; then sprinkle upon it nearly a pint of* wine vine- 
gar, and let it lie for three or four days, turning and rubbing 
it once a day ; rinse it out of the brine with a pint of claret, and 
season it with cloves, mace, and nutmeg, white and Jamaica 
pepper, of each a quarter of an ounce ; bake all together with 
savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon shred together, 
and well rubbed into the cuts and slashes on the inside*, bind 
it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot ; put in the claret, and 
lay the skins at the top to save it ; then bake. 

BIRDS POTTED HOW TO PRESERVE WHEN THEY BEGIN 

TO GROW OLD. 

When birds are sent a long way, they often smell so bad 
that they can hardly be borne, from the rankness of the but- 
ter. By doing them in the following way, they will be as if 
only fresh done. Set a large saucepan of clean water on the 
fire ; when it boils take off the butter at the top ; then take 
the birds, one by one, throw them into the saucepan of water 
half a minute, and take one out and dry it well, mside and out ; 
do so till they are all done, and scald your pot clean ; when 
the birds are quite cold season with mace, pepper and salt, ac- 
cording to taste, and put them down in a close pot, with clar- 
ified butter over them. 

CHEESE POTTED. 

Take three pounds of Cheshire cheese, and half a pound of 
the best butter, beat it in a mortar, add a large glass of sack, half 
an ounce of mace beaten and sifted, mix it well, pot it, and pour 
clarified butter over it. 

CHICKEN OR POTTED HAM. 

Season some pieces of chicken with mace, cloves, and pep- 
per, and bake for about two hours in a close covered pan, with 
some water, then pound them quite small. After they are 
G 10 



146 PRACTICAL COOKERV. 

pounded, moisten with either melted butter or the liquor that 
they are baked in. Take equal quantities of ground mace, 
cloves and pepper, and put this with the chicken in alternate 
layers, in small earthen pots ; press them down tight, and cover 
them with lard. Ham is potted in the same way. 

• GAME OF ALL KINDS. 

Any dressed game you may have in your larder. Pound 
well in your mortar all the tender meat, free from skin and 
bone, with an equal quantity of good fat ham ; add to it some 
pounded mace, allspice, cayenne pepper, salt, white pepper and 
a few grains of powdered sugar ; if you have no ham, use an 
equal quantity of butter instead. When well pounded, rub it 
through a wire sieve ; mix it up well again, and place it tightly 
in earthen shapes ; cover each jar over with lard ; turn out 
with warm water, when required either for breakfast, luncheon, 
or a second course. 

. LOBSTERS POTTED. 

Take out the meat as whole as you can, split the tail, and 
remove the gut ; if the inside is not watery add that, season 
with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves 
in the finest powder ; put a little butter at the bottom of the 
pan, and the lobsters smooth over ; bake it gently. When 
done pour the whole on the bottom of the sieve, and with a 
fork lay the pieces into potting jars, some of each sort, with 
the seasoning about it ; when cold pour clarified butter over it, 
but if not, it will be good the day after it is done, and if sea- 
soned high and thickly covered with butter will keep some 
time. Potted lobsters may be used cold, or as fricasee with 
cream sauce. 

PARTRIDGE POTTED. 

Let your partridges be cleaned and seasoned with mace, all- 
spice white pepper, and salt, powdered ; rub every part well ; 



POTTED MEATS. 147 

then lay them in a stewpan, breast downwards, putting the 
birds as close as possible ; put plenty of butter over them ; 
cover the pan with a coarse flour paste, and a paper, and bake. 
When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with 
butter. 

PIGEONS POTTED. 

Be careful that they are fresh ; clean, and season them with 
salt and pepper, and lay them close together in a small, deep 
pan, for the closer they are put the less butter they will take. 
Cover them with butter, tie them over with a thin paper, and 
bake them. When cold, put them to dry in pots that will 
hold two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using 
that which was baked as some ; mind the butter should be 
thick over them. If they are done for keeping, the pigeons 
would lie closer and want less butter if they are boned, and 
put into the pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with 
force meat, made with veal and bacon, &c, and they will eat 
very well. If a high seasoning is preferred, add more allspice 
and a little cayenne pepper, before baking. 

VEAL POTTED. 

Take part of a knuckle of veal that has been stewed, bake it 
for the purpose, beat it to paste, with butter, salt, white pep- 
per, and mace pounded, pot it, and pour clarified butter over. 

ANOTHER. 

Take one pound of lean veal, put it into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted 
mace, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, and mushroom pow- 
der, a small quantity of each, a little thyme, savory, and a 
small onion chopped fine ; stew them ten minutes, then pound 
them, add a pound of the mellow part of a boiled tongue beaten 
to a paste, half a pound of cold fresh butter ; mix all well to- 



148 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

gether, with two eggs, well beaten, then press th^ u**^. 
tight in small pots, cover them with paper, and put them into 
a moderate oven; Lake twenty minutes, then pour over them 
clarified butter. 

VENISON POTTED. 

Put the venison into a pan, and pour red wine over it, and 
cover it with a pound of butter ; put a paste over the pan ; set 
it in the oven to bake. When done take the meat out of the 
gravy, beat it well with the butter that has risen to the top, 
add more if necessary, season with pepper, salt, and mace, 
pounded ; put into pots, set them in the oven for a -few minutes ; 
when cold cover with clarified butter. 




CHAPTER XIV. 

PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, TARTLETS, 
PUFFS, ETC. 

The greatest possible cleanliness and nicety should be ob- 
served in making pastry. The slab or board, paste-rollers, tins, 
cutters, stamps, everything, in fact, used for it, and especially 
the hands, should be equally free from the slightest soil or par- 
ticle of dust. The more expeditiously the finer kinds of crust 
are made and dispatched to the oven, and the less they are 
touched, the better. Much of their excellence depends upon 
the baking, also ; they should have a sufficient degree of heat to 
raise them quickly, but not so fierce a one as to color 
them too much before they are done, and still less to burn 
them. The oven door should remain closed after they are put 



150 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

in, and not be removed until the paste is set. Large raised 
pies require a steadily sustained heat, and to insure this, the 
oven should be made very hot, then cleared, and closely shut 
from half to a whole hour before it is used, to concentrate the 
heat. 

In mixing paste, the water should be added gradually, and 
the whole gently drawn together with the fingers, until sufficient 
has been added, when it should be lightly kneaded until it is as 
smooth as possible. When carelessly made, the surface is of- 
ten left covered with small dry crumbs or lumps, or the water 
is poured in heedlessly in so large a proportion that it becomes 
necessary to add more flour to render it workable in any way ; 
and this ought particularly to be avoided when a certain weight 
of all the ingredients has been taken. 

PUFF PASTE FOR PATTIES OR FIRST COURSE. DISHES. 

Take one pound of butter, salt or fresh,* and one pound of 
flour. Put your flour upon your board, work in with your 
hands lightly a quarter of the butter ; then add water sufficient 
to make it the stiffness or softness of the remaining butter ; 
each should be the same substance ; work it up smooth, then 
roll it out lengthwise half an inch thick ; place the remainder 
of the butter cut in slices half way on the paste ; dust flour 
lightly over it, and double it up ; press it down with your roll- 
ing-pin and let it lie a few minutes, then roll it three times, 
thinner each time, letting it lie a few minutes between each roll, 
and keep it free from sticking to the board or rolling-pin. 

VERY SUPERIOR SUET CRUST. 

Strip the skin entirely from some fresh veal or beef kidney 
suet ; chop, and then put it into the mortar, with a small quan- 
tity of pure flavored lard or butter, and pound it perfectly 
smooth ; it may then be used for crust in the same way that 
butter is, in making puff paste, and in this form will be found 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 151 



a most excellent substitute for it, for hot pies or tarts. It is 
not quite so good for those which are to be served cold. Eight 
ounces of suet pounded with two of butter, and worked with 
the fingers into a pound of flour, will make an exceedingly good 
short crust ; but for a very rich one, the proportion must be 
increased. 

Good short crust : flour, one pound ; suet eight ounces ; but- 
ter, two ounces ; salt, half a teaspoon full. Richer crust: suet, 
sixteen ounces ; butter, four ounces ; flour, one pound and a 
half; salt, one small teaspoon full. 

PASTE FOR BORDERS OF DISHES. 

Six or eight yolks of eggs, a few drops of water, a little salt ; 
keep mixing in flour until so stiff you can scarce work it, beat 
it and work quite smooth, and keep it moist until you require 
it ; then roll it out quite thin, and cut your patterns, placing 
upon your dishes before it gets too dry, dipping them on the 
bottom. Edge in white of eggs. 

FANCY PASTRY. 

Use some fancy cutter, and use the second paste, cutting each 
piece a quarter of an inch thick, egg them and glaze them, and 
bake them a light brown ; when cold put different colored 
sweetmeats, such as apple jelly, red currant jelly, &c, into de- 
vices upon the top of each piece ; dish them upon a napkin. 

SANDWICH PASTRY. 

The prepared paste you will cut into lengths about three 
inches, and a half or quarter of an inch thick, lay each piece on 
its side upon the baking sheet without paper, each an inch 
apart ; it will take twenty-four pieces to make a dish. When 
half baked, cover each piece thickly over with sifted sugar, then 
return them to the oven until getting a little colored ; take 
them out and hold a red hot shovel at a distance over them 



152 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

until they are a beautiful gloss, then take them off upon paper 
on a dish ; spread one piece with some sort of jam, then place 
the other cup on it until all is done, and dish them on a napkin 
round. 

SWEET OR BISCUIT CRUST. 

Put half a pound of flour on your board ; put into it 
the yolks of two eggs ; mix this all up so that you cannot 
see the egg and then add a good desertspoon full of fine sifted 
sugar; work it well in the flour; then work in about two 
ounces of butter and mix water or milk sufficient to make a 
stiff paste. Beat it with your rolling-pin well, and work it 
well with your hands until quite smooth, roll half a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, for your tarts, either for slip tarts or 
covered, and glaze the covered tarts either before going into 
the oven or after ; if first, beat up a little white of egg, and 
spread it on the top of your tart, then cover it with sugar 
then gently sprinkle the sugar M'ith water until all is damped, 
then sugar it again, and bake it in a slow fire ; notch the edge 
of your tart very fine. 

BEEF STEAK PIE. 

Take some good steaks, beat them with a rolling-pin, and 
season them with pepper and salt ; fill a dish with them, adding 
as much water as will half fill it, then cover it with a good 
crust, and bake it well. 

COLD VEAL OR CHICKEN' PIE. 

Lay a crust into a shallow tart-dish, and fill it with the fol- 
lowing mixture : Shred cold veal or fowl, and half the quan- 
tity of ham, mostly lean ; put to it a little cream ; season with 
white and cayenne pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and a small 
piece of onion, chopped as fine as possible ; cover with crust, 
and turn it out of the dish when baked, or bake the crust with 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 153 

a piece of bread, to keep it hollow, and warm the mince with 
a little cream, and pour in. 

FISH PIE. 

This pie may be made of any fish — salmon, pike, eel, or any 
other. Scale your fish, and cut it into pieces ; line your pie 
dish with a good crust ; put in the fish, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a little ^lt, some bruised spices, and a layer of butter 
on the top ; put on the crust, and bake for an hour and a half; 
when done, remove the fat, and put in a vegetable ragout, made 
thus : stir a little butter and flour over the fire until a pale 
brown ; moisten with half a pint of sherry, some thin soup ; 
add a few mushrooms, a little salt, and a bunch of herbs ; let 
it boil half an hour ; add the soft roes of carp, parboiled ; stew 
a quarter of an hour, and then put the ragout into the pies. 
Any vegetable ragout may be used. 

GIBLET PIE. 

For goose giblets, you must boil them a short time ; when 
cold, chop them in small pieces, and cut the gizzard, heart, and 
liver in slices ; stew them for a quarter of an hour in some 
good stock ; when cold, line your dish with veal cutlets, or 
rump steaks ; use hard boiled eggs to this pie ; then season ; 
if to go into an imitation raised pie, thicken the giblets — if in 
a dish, garnish. 

PIE RAISED, TO BE SERVED HOT. 

Make a stiff paste, as for raised pies, which mix with warm 
water ; when well mixed together, roll it out thin ; cut a piece 
out for the bottom, and two for the sides, according to the 
shape of the dish ; egg the edges you intend to join, and press 
them well together, so that the joining may not be seen ; shape 
it ; garnish it with leaves or festoons, according to your taste ; 
fill it nearly to the top with bran ; egg it, and let it be baked 
G* 



154 



PRACTICAL COOKERY. 



in a moderate oven ; when done of a light color, turn out the 
bran, and set it ready for what you intend to put in, which may 
be cutlets of mutton, stewed with vegetables, partridge, brown 
sauce, chickens, cut up, stewed carp, or eels. 



PORK PIES, TO EAT COLD. 

Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, 
as you choose ; have ready the trimmings and small bits of 
pork, cut off when a hog is killed ; and if these are not enough, 
take the meat oft* the sweet bone ; beat it well with a rolling- 
pin ; season with cayenne and white pepper, and salt, and keep 
the fat and lean separate ; put it in layers, quite close up to 
the top ; lay on the lid ; cut the edge smooth ; round and 
and pinchit ; bake it in a slow oven, as the meat is very solid. 

The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain 
crust, and be quite as good ; observe to put no bone or water 
into pork pie ; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless 
they are cut small and pressed close. 



VEAL OR CHICKEN AND PARSLEY PIE. 

Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal ; if the leg, 

from about the knuckle. Sea- 
son them with salt ; scald some 
picked parsley, and squeeze it 
dry ; chop it a little, and lay it 
at the bottom of the dish ; then 
put the meat, &c, in layers ; fill 
the dish with new milk, but not 
so high as to touch the crust ; cover it, and when baked, pour 
out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded 
cream. Chicken may be cut up, skinned, and made the same 
way. 




PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 155 

FAMILY PIE CRUST. 

Work into a pound of sifted flour half a pound of sweet 
lard, or beef dripping, with a dessertspoon full of salt ; when 
thoroughly mixed, put to it enough cold water to bind it to- 
gether ; flour the paste-slab, or table, and rolling-pin ; take a 
part of the paste, and roll it to less than a quarter of an inch 
thickness. 

For the upper or outside crust of a pie, roll the paste out 
thin ; spread a bit of butter, half the size of an egg : over it ; 
fold it up, roll it out again, and cover the pie. 

Some are of the opinion that no under-crust should be made 
to apple or other fruit pie. It is always heavy, and not fit to 
eat. Place a narrow rim of paste around the edge of the 
plate, and fill with the fruit, either raw or stewed, and cover 
it. The juices will be retained much better, and it will save 
flour and butter, which is no trifling consideration in these days; 
and, what is of more consequence, it saves dyspepsia, which costs 
more. After cutting, they are taken out with a spoon. 

MINCE PIE. 

The best kind of meat for minco pies is neat's tongue and 
feet. Boil the meat till perfectly tender; then take it up; 
clear it from the bones and gristle ; chop it fine enough to 
strain through a sieve ; mix it with an equal weight of tart 
apples, chopped very fine. If the meat is not fat, put in a lit- 
tle suet or melted butter. Moisten the whole with cider ; 
sweeten it to the taste with su2;ar and verv little molasses ; 
add mace, cinnamon, cloves, and salt to the taste. If you wish 
to make your pies rich, put in wine or brandy to the taste, and 
raisins, citron, and Zante currants. The grated rind and juice 
of lemons improve the pie. Make the pies on shallow plates, 
with apertures in the upper crust, and bake them from half to 
three-quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven. 

Meat prepared for pies in the following manner will keep 



156 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

good several months, if kept in a cool, dry place ; To a pound 
of finely chopped meat, a quarter of a pound of suet, put half 
an ounce of mace, one ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce 
of cloves, two teaspoons full of salt. Add, if you like, the fol- 
lowing fruits : half a pound of seeded raisins, half a pound of 
Zante currants, a quarter of a pound of citron. Put in half a 
pint of French brandy or wine, three tablespoons full of mo- 
lasses, and sugar sufficient to make it quite sweet. Put the 
whole in a stone pot, and cover it with a paper wet in brandy. 
When you wish to use any of it for pies, put to what meat 
you use an equal weight of apples, pared and chopped fine. If 
not seasoned high enough, add more spice and sugar. If the 
apples are not tart, put in lemon juice or sour cider. 

MINCE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. 

Take of currants, apples, chopped fine, moist sugar, and suet, 
well chopped, a pound of each, a quarter of a pound of raisins, 
stoned and chopped small, the juice of four Seville oranges, the 
juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, and 
mace, to suit the palate, and a glass of brandy. Mix all to- 
gether ; put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. 

MINCE PIES. 

One pound of lean beef, boiled tender and chopped fine ; 
one pound of beef suet ; a half pound of apples, chopped ; two 
pounds of currants ; one pound of raisins, seeded and chopped ; 
a quarter of a pound of citron. Add sugar, salt, nutmeg, mace, 
cloves, wine, and brandy to your taste. 

LEMON MINCE PIES. 

Take a large lemon ; squeeze the juice from it, and boil the 
outside till it becomes soft enough to beat to a mash ; put to 
it three large apples, four ounces of suet, the same of sugar, 
and half a pound of currants; add the juice of the lemon, and 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. * 157 

some candied fruit, the same as for other pies. Make a short 
crust, and fill the patty-pans in the usual way. 

LEMON PIES. 

Pare two lemons ; take out the seeds ; chop the rind and 
pulps ; add one egg, a small piece of butter, a small teacup of 
flour, three cups of sugar, two of water. Bake in a paste. 
This quantity will make two pies. 

APPLE MINCE PIES. 

One pound of well washed and dried Zante currants, one 
pound of peeled and chopped apples, one pound of suet, chopped 
fine, one pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of rai- 
sins, stoned and cut in two, the juice of four oranges and two 
lemons, with the chopped peel of one ; add of ground mace 
and allspice each a teaspoon full, and a wine-glass of brandv ; 
mix them well together, and keep it closely covered in a dry, 
cool place. Bake with two crusts, the same as mince pies. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin in a covered vessel until soft enough to 
mash ; then set a cullender or sieve into a basin, and press it 
through into the basin ; when rubbed through, add to it milk 
enough to make a thin batter ; to every quart of this batter 
put four well beaten eggs, a small teacup of sugar, and a salt- 
spoon full of salt ; for each quart, grate in a nutmeg, and a 
teaspoon full of extract of lemon, and some ground ginger, if 
liked. Many prefer it without ginger. 

Line flat bottomed pie dishes with pie paste, and nearly fill 
them with the pumpkin mixture ; lay a strip of paste around 
the edge ; trim off the outside neatly, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour, in a quick oven ; the top of the pie should be deli- 
cately brown. Ornament to taste. 



158 • PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

To one pound of boiled and sifted pumpkin add one pint of 
cream, a half pound of sugar, six eggs, and spice to your taste. 

SQUASH PIES. 

Boil and sift the squash, and make them exactly like pump- 
kin pies. 

Carrot and sweet potato pies are made in the same way, 
with crackers; eggs or rice should always be used with them. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare, quarter, and slice the apples. If not ripe, stew them 
in just water enough to prevent burning. When soft, sweeten 
and season to the taste. "When ripe, they are better not to 
be stewed before baking. Fill the pie plates ; cover with a 
thick crust, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. 
When baked sufficiently, cut the upper crust through the cen- 
ter; remove it carefully with a broad knife; put a piece of 
butter, of the size of a walnut, into a pie ; sweeten it to your 
taste, and if the apples are not tart enough, squeeze in the 
juice of part of a lemon ; flavor the pie with either nutmeg, 
rosewater, or grated lemon peel. Apples cut into quarters, 
without paring, and stewed soft in new cider and molasses, 
make good plain pies. The apples should be strained after 
stewing, and seasoned with cinnamon or nutmeg. If made 
quite sweet, it will keep good several months. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. 

Stew the apples soft ; turn them into a pan and mash them 
fine ; add half the peel of a lemon, cut fine, or a little grated 
nutmeg, a sprinkle of salt, molasses or sugar, to make them 
quite sweet. Bake them in a rich paste, a little over half an 
hour. This will be quite as good as fresh fruit. 



PIES. PUDDINGS, ETC. 159 

CURRANT AND GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Currants and gooseberries are the best for pies when of full 
growth, just before they begin to turn ; they are tolerably 
good when ripe. Currants, mixed with ripe raspberries or 
mulberries, make very nice pies. Green currants and goose- 
berries for pies are not sweet enough, without the sugar is 
scalded in before they are baked, as the juice of the currants is 
apt to run out while they are baking, and leave the fruit dry. 
Stew them on a moderate fire, with a teacup of water to a 
couple of quarts of currants ; as soon as they begin to break, 
add the sugar, and let it scald in a few minutes. When baked 
without stewing, put to each layer of fruit a thick layer of 
sugar. There should be as much as a quarter of a pound of 
sugar to a pint of currants, to make them sufficiently sweet. 
Green currant pies are good, sweetened with molasses and 
sugar, mixed. 

CRANBERRY PIE OR TARTS. 

Pick a quart of cranberries, free from imperfections ; put a 
pint of water to them, and put them in a stewpan, over a mod- 
erate fire ; put a pound of clean brown sugar to them, and 
stew them gently until they are all soft ; mash them with a 
silver spoon, and turn them into a dish, to become cold ; then 
make them into pies or tarts, and bake. Many persons put 
flour in cranberry pies ; it is a great mistake, as it completely 
spoils the color of the fruit. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Cut the large stalks off where the leaves commence ; strip 
off the outside skin ; then cut the stalk in pieces half an inch 
long ; line a pie dish with paste, rolled rather thicker than a 
dollar piece ; put in a layer of the rhubarb, nearly an inch 
deep ; to a quart bowl of cut rhubarb, put a large teacup of 
sugar ; strew it over, with a saltspoon full of salt, and half a 
nutmeg, grated ; cover with a rich pie crust ; cut a slit in thy 



100 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

center ; trim off the edge with a sharp knife, and bake in a 
quick oven, until the pie loosens from the dish. 

APRICOT PIE. 

Take eighteen fine apricots ; cut them in halves, and take 
out the stones ; place them in a dish lined with puff paste ; 
add four ounces of powdered sugar, and four ounces of butter, 
lukewarm ; then put on the upper crust ; glaze with the white 
of egg, and sprinkle sifted sugar all over, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

RED SUGAR-BEET PIE. 

Pies made of the red sugar-beet are said to be delicious, 
somewhat resembling rhubarb pie in flavor, though more rich 
and substantial. It is seasoned with vinegar, sugar, and spices, 
to suit the palate. The root may be used without boiling, be- 
ing chopped fine. Prepare the crust, and bake as you would 
a green apple pie. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Grate the white part, and mix with milk. Let it boil slowly 
eight or ten minutes. To a pint and a half of cocoanut add a 
quart of milk, four eggs, half a cup of sweet cream, two spoons 
full of melted butter, a cracker, rolled fine, and half a nutmeg. 
The cocoanut should cool before the eggs and sugar are 
stewed in. Bake in a deep plate, in a quick oven. 

IIUCKLE OR WHORTLEBERRY PIE. 

Clean a quart of berries in water ; line a buttered pie dish 
with a pie paste; put in the berries half an inch deep; and to 
a quart of berries put a teacup of brown sugar, and half a tea- 
cup of water ; dredge a teaspoon full of flour over ; strew a 
saltspoon full of salt, and half a nutmeg, grated over ; cover 
the pie; cut a slit in the center, or make several small in- 
cisions on either side of it; trim it off neatly with a sharp 
knife, and bake it in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 161 

TOMATO PIE. 

Take green tomatoes ; turn boiling water on them, and let 
them remain in it a few minutes ; then strip off the skin ; cut 
the tomatoes in slices, and put them in deep pie plates ; sprinkle 
sugar over each layer, and a little ginger ; grated lemon peel, 
and the juice of a lemon improve the pie. Cover the pies with 
a thick crust, and bake them slowly for about an hour. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Pick the berries clean ; rinse them in cold water, and finish 
as directed for huckleberries. 

CREAM PIES. 

Beat four or five eggs light ; then stir them into a quart of 
sweet scalding cream ; add salt, a teaspoon full of the extract 
of lemon or peach water, and half a nutmeg, grated, if liked ; 
sweeten to taste ; line the dishes with pie paste, rolled quite 
thin ; set them in a quick oven for ten minutes ; then put in 
the cream nearly to fill them, and bake for half an hour. 

These pies, and also pumpkin and custard pies, may be very 
prettily ornamented, when half baked, with flowers, stars, or 
letters, cut from thin rolled paste ; if letters or love-knots are 
used, form them of narrow strips of paste ; the cream or cus- 
tard must be firm before these are put on, otherwise they 
will sink. 

SWEET MARLBOROUGH PIE. 

Procure sweet, mellow apples ; pare and grate them. To 
a pint of the grated pulp put a pint of milk, a couple of eggs, 
two tablespoons full of melted butter, the grated peel of a 
lemon, and half a wine-glass of brandy. Sweeten it to the 
taste with nice brown sugar. The eggs should be beaten to a 
froth, then the sugar stirred into them, and mixed with the rest 
of the ingredients. A little stewed pumpkin, mixed with the 

11 



162 PRACTICAL COOKER V. 

apples, improves the pie. Bake the pie in deep plates, with- 
out an upper crust. 

PLAIN CUSTARD PIE. 

Boil a quart of milk with half a dozen peach leaves, or the 
rind of a lemon. When they have flavored the milk, strain it, 
and set it where it will boil. Mix a tablespoon full of flour, 
smoothly, with a couple of tablespoons full of milk, and stir it 
into the boiling milk. Let it boil a minute, stirring it con- 
stantly; take it from the fire, and when cool, put in three 
beaten eggs ; sweeten it to the taste ; turn it into deep pie 
plates, and bake the pies directly, in a quick oven. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Stone your cherries, that you may be sure they are free 
from worms. Lay your paste in a deep dish, and add a good 
quantity of fruit ; fill the dish with molasses, with a hand full 
of flour sprinkled over, then a nice paste, and bake more than 
half an hour. If sugar is used, you will need water and flour. 
This makes the gravy very rich, and the pie delightful. 

LEMON PIE. 

Boil six fresh lemons in water until a straw will penetrate 
the skin ; then take them out ; chop them fine, and take out 
the seeds ; to a pound of light brown sugar put a teacup of 
water; let it boil, skimming it clear until it is a nice syrup; 
then put in the lemon, and set it to cool ; cover a shallow 
plate with pie paste ; put in the lemon, spread out to nearly 
the edge ; cover with a paste ; cut a slit in the center, and 
bake. 

LEMOX PUDDING 

Take the yolks of ten eggs, a half pound of sugar, six ounces 
of butter, four tablespoons full of wine, four of cream, two of 
rosewater, two crackers, pounded very fine, the peel of three 
lemons grated, and the juice of two. Bake in a crust. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 163 

LEMON TART. 

Make as directed for pie, and instead of a top crust, roll out 
the paste, cut it in strips, and lay it across, and bake. 

PEACH PIE. 

Peaches for pie may be ripe, but not soft ; pare them ; cut 
them up, and finish as directed for apple pies. Unripe peaches 
may be pared and stewed as directed for apple tart, and baked 
in a pie or tart. 

CORN STARCH PIE. 

To one quart of milk put two tablespoons full of corn starch, 
and two eggs. Sweeten, salt, and season to the taste. Line 
a pie plate with crust, and bake as custard. 

DIRECTIONS FOR PUDDINGS. 

Puddings should be boiled in tin forms, rubbed over on the 
inside with butter ; or in muslin bags, which should be dipped 
into boiling water, and then be rubbed over on the inside with 
flour. A small pail will answer, with a cloth tied over it. If 
boiled in a tin form, do not let the water reach the top of it. 
If in a bag, it must be turned frequently. 

BARED APPLE PUDDING. 

Twelve large apples, stewed very dry, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, stirred in when the apples are nearly cold, sugar 
to your taste, one wine-glass of wine and rosewater, a little 
cinnamon and nutmeg, seven eggs, two hands full of bread, 
crumbed very fine. Bake twenty minutes. Serve with sauce, 
or sugar and cream. 

BOILED APPLE PUDDING. 

Make a batter with two well beaten eggs and a pint and a 
half of milk, with a pint of wheat flour ; beat until smooth and 



164 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

light; pare, quarter, and core five or six large, tender, tart ap. 
pies, and stir them into the batter, with a teaspoon full of salt ; 
tie it in a pudding-bag, and boil for two hours. Turn it out 
on a dish, and serve with sugar, butter, and nutmeg sauce. 

Huckleberries, cranberries, or other fruit may be thus used, 
instead of apples. 

PLAIN BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Pour three pints of boiling milk to a large quart of Indian 
meal ; stir it well ; add a teacup, of molasses, a little salt, and 
two tablespoons full of flour. Boil four hours. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

Let two quarts of water come to a boil ; then add a table- 
spoon full of salt ; take off the light scum from the top ; have 
sweet, fresh yellow or white corn meal ; stir it in gradually 
and thoroughly until it is as thick as you can stir easily, or 
until the stick will stand in it; stir it a while longer; let the 
fire be gentle ; when it is done enough, it will bubble or puff 
up ; turn it into a deep basin ; this is eaten cold or hot, with 
milk or with butter, and syrup or sugar, or with meat and 
gravy, the same as potatoes or rice. When cold, it may be 
cut into slices and fried. 

eve's pudding. 
Six eggs, six large apples, pared and chopped, six ounces of 
bread, crumbed line, six ounces of currants, six ounces of sugar. 
Three hours will boil it. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Half a pound of raisins, half a pound of currants, half a 
pound of bread, grated, half a pound of apples, chopped, four 

ga, half a nutmeg, a wine-glass of brandy, a quarter of a 
pound of suet. Boil three hours. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 165 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, one pound of suet, one and a half pounds 
of currants, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, two spoons full of 
milk, two nutmegs, one gill of brandy and wine, mixed, citron. 
Boil six hours. This quantity will make two puddings in 
quart bowls. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

The cocoanut must be grated the flat way ; equal weight of 
loaf sugar, yolks of six eggs to one nut ; six spoons full of 
rosewater, sugar melted in the rosewater, and cocoanut put in 
and simmered over fine coals till the syrup is nearly dried 
up ; stir it constantly, or it will burn. Bake in a paste. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 

Boil three pints of milk, seven spoons full of flour stirred 
into the milk, then seven well beaten eggs ; strain it. Boil it 
an hour, and serve with cold sauce. 

CUSTARD PUDDING BAKED. 

One pint of milk, eight eggs, two spoons full of flour, two of 
rosewater, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and sugar to the taste. 
Bake half an hour. 

APRICOT PUDDING. 

Whip up a pint of milk, or cream, six eggs, four tablespoons 
full of fine flour, a little salt, and a small portion of ciunamon. 
Rub the apricots through a sieve, and add enough of the pulp 
to make the whole rather thicker than batter ; sweeten ; pour 
it into a buttered basin, and boil an hour and a quarter ; serve 
with melted butter. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Put into a stewpan six spoons full of flour, a teaspoon full 
salt, and half a nutmeg, grated ; mix them with a pint and a 
half of new milk, and stir in six eggs, beaten ; pour the batter 



160 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

into a well buttered basin or mould ; tie it tight with a cloth, 
and boil it two hours and a half. . Or it may be baked ; three- 
quarters of an hour will be sufficient. Stoned raisins or cur- 
rants may be added. 

BATTER PUDDING BOILED. 

Six eggs, six large spoons full of flour ; beat your eggs, and 
stir your flour gradually into them ; then stir in a quart of 
milk, and a little salt. Boil one hour. If boiled in a bag; 
flour it well ; if in a mould, be sure and have it full. 

BATTER PUDDING, WITH OR WITHOUT SUGAR. 

Beat up six eggs ; put about a pint of milk in a basin ; stir 
in by degrees about half a pound of flour ; add a little salt; 
mix in your eggs with a gill of cream ; strain it all through a 
very fine sieve ; butter your mould ; tie a cloth over the 
mould. Send up a sweet sauce, or melted butter, or hot cur- 
rant jelly ; if suet, add to your eggs some sifted sugar. 

BARLEY PUDDING. 

To a pound of pearl barley, well washed, add three quarts 
of new milk, half a pound of double refined sugar, and a nut- 
meg, grated ; then bake it in a deep pan. Remove it from 
the oven ; beat up six eggs ; mix well together ; pour it into 
a buttered dish, and bake it again for an hour. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak two or three French rolls, cut into slices, in a pint of 
cream, or good milk ; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten, some 
sugar, orange flower water, three pounded macaroons, and a 
glass of white wine; tie it up in a basin, or buttered cloth ; 
put the pudding in boiling water, and let it boil for half an 
hour. Serve with wine sauce. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 167 

PLAIN BAKED BREAD PUDDING. 

Pound rusked bread fine ; to five heaping tablespoons full 
of it put a quart of milk, three beaten eggs, three tablespoons 
full of rolled sugar, a teaspoon full of salt, half a nutmeg, and 
three tablespoons full of melted butter. Bake it about an 
hour. It does not need any sauce. 

ECONOMICAL PUDDING. 

Keep your pieces of bread, and dry them nicely ; when 
enough are collected, soak them in milk over night ; in the 
morning drain out all the milk you can through a cullender ; 
add to the bread some sugar, and a little salt, with some scalded 
raisins ; tie it in a bag, and boil five or six hours. Serve with 
sweet sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Take a large carrot ; boil it soft"; bruise it in a marble mor- 
tar, and mix with it a spoon full of biscuit powder, four yolks 
and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream, a large spoon full of 
rose or orange flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, two ounces 
of sugar ; bake it in a shallow dish ; turn it out, and serve 
with sugar over. 

CUSTARD PUDDING BOILED. 

Take a pint of cream, six eggs, well beaten, two spoons full 
of flour, half a nutmeg, grated, and salt and sugar to taste ; 
mix them together ; butter a cloth, and pour in the batter ; 
tie it up ; put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it an 
hour and a half. Serve with melted butter. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Pare and slice a quantity of apples. Take the crust from a 
loaf of bread ; cut the rest in slices, and butter them. Butter 
a pie dish, and put the slices all round, then a layer of ap- 
ples, sprinkled with lemon peel, chopped very fine, and brown 



1G8 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

sugar; a layer of bread and butter, alternately, until the dish 
is full. Squeeze over the whole the juice of two lemons ; cover 
the dish with the crusts of bread and the apple parings, to pre- 
vent its browning too much. Bake an hour and a quarter ; 
then take off the crust and peels, and turn it out of the dish. 
Serve with sugar and cream, or butter. 

CHARLOTTE. 

Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover 
the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, first rubbing it 
thickly with butter ; put thin slices of apples into the dish, in 
layers, till the dish is full, strewing butter and sugar between. 
In the meantime, soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover 
the whole, in warm milk, over which place a plate and a weight 
to keep the bread close upon the apples ; let it bake slowly 
for three hours ; for a middle sized dish, you should use half 
a pound of butter for the whole. 

CITRON PUDDING. 

Take a pint of cream, and the yolks of six eggs ; beat them 
together ; add four ounces of sugar, the same of citron, shred 
fine, two spoons full of flour, and a little nutmeg. Place this 
mixture in a deep dish ; bake it in a quick oven, and turn 
it out. 

CURRANT PUDDING. 

Take a pound of currants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four 
spoons full of flour, half a nutmeg, a teaspoon full of ginger, a 
little pow T dered sugar, and a little salt. Boil this for three 
hours. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Line a well buttered basin with a paste made of butter, or 
suet, ehopped small, rubbed into flour; put in picked cherries; 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 169 

cover the top with a crust, and boil it. Fruit puddings may- 
be boiled in a cloth, without a basin. 

FLOUR PUDDING. 

Into a pint and a half of sifted flour stir gradually, so that it 
may not be lumpy, a quart of milk. Beat seven eggs and put 
in, together with a couple of tablespoons full of melted butter, 
and a. teaspoon full of salt. Grate in half of a nutmeg ; add, 
if you want the pudding very rich, half a pound of raisins. 
They should not be put into a baked pudding till it has been 
cooking long enough to thicken, so that the raisins will not sink 
to the bottom of it. A pudding made in this manner is good 
either baked or boiled. It takes two hours to boil, and an hour 
and a quarter to bake it. When boiled, the bag should not 
be more than two-thirds full, as flour puddings swell very 
much. Boil constantly. If the water boils away so as to 
leave any part of the bag uncovered, more boiling water should 
be added. When the pudding has boiled eight or nine min- 
utes, the bag should be turned over, otherwise the pudding 
will be heavy. Flour puddings should be eaten as soon as 
cooked, as they fall directly. Serve them up with rich sauce. 

DRIED APPLE PUDDING BOILED. 

Boil dried apples nearly done. Save a teacup of the juice 
of the apple, for a sauce. Chop them, and mix with soaked 
bread, and boil in a bag. Make a sauce of melted butter, 
sugar, and flour, with enough of the apple juice to give it the 
flavor of wine, and spice with nutmeg. It is excellent. 

JFNNY LIND PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one spoon full of butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, one pint of flour, two and a half teaspoons full 
of baking powder. Bake three quarters of an hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

H 



170 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Boil four lemons, peeled thin till they are soft, rub them 
through a hair sieve, and preserve the fine pulp ; pour some 
boiling milk or cream, in which a stick of cinnamon has been 
boiled, over a pound of Naples buiscuits, two ounces of fresh 
butter, and a little nutmeg. When cold, add to them the pulp 
of the lemons and eight eggs well beaten ; mix all together, and 
sweeten. Make a good puff paste, edge a dish with it, put in 
the mixture, ornament the top with strings of paste, and bake it 
in a moderate oven. 

BAKED MARROW PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of marrow, chopped fine, six sponge 
biscuits broken up, a few currants or raisins stoned, some can- 
died orange, lemon, and citron, cut into small dice, a little nut- 
meg, grating of half a lemon peel ; butter a pie or tart dish. 
Spread your cakes, marrow, alternately with the peels, five eggs 
broken in a basin, leave out two whites, beat them up, put half 
a pint of cream to it, and a cup of milk, sweeten with pounded 
sugar, according to the taste. Put a paste thin to your dish. 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cut one into eight pieces, and half a pound of bacon, cut into 
slices; season with one teaspoon full of salt, half of pepper, two 
of chopped parsley, a little thyme, and one captain's biscuit, 
well broken ; fill the pudding with the meat ; add half pint of 
milk; boil for one hour and a half; serve with melted butter 
over, and chopped parsley on the top. 

MUTTON PUDDING. 

Cut some large slices from the upper part of an underdone 
leg of mutton, line a basin with a good suet crust, and put in 
the meat ; season well with pepper and salt, and an onion finely 
Bhred. Cover up with the paste, and boil it two hours. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 171 

MUFFIN PUDDING WITH DRIED CHERRIES. 

Put four muffins into a pan, strain over them a pint and a 
half of milk boiled for ten minutes, a bit of lemon peel, and 
sugar to suit the taste. When cold, mash them with a wooden 
spoon, add half a pound of dried cherries, a gill of brandy, a 
little grated nutmeg, two ounces of sweet almonds blanched 
and pounded very fine, and six eggs well beaten ; mix all to- 
gether, and boil in a basin, or bake it in a dish lined with paste. 

OATMEAL PUDDING. 

Take a pint of the best fine oatmeal, pour a quart of boiling 
milk over it, and let it soak all night ; the next day put it in a 
basin just large enough to hold it, add two eggs beaten, and a 
little salt, cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour 
«md a half. It may be eaten hot, with cold butter and salt; or 
cold, sliced and toasted. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

To half a pound of lump sugar press the juice of three Se- 
ville oranges ; take half a pound of butter melted thick and the 
yolks of ten eggs well beaten ; mix all thoroughly together with 
four ounces of blanched almonds well pounded with a little 
orange-flower water, and the peel of one of the oranges grated. 
Place a thin crust in the bottom of the dish. 

OLD ENGLISH CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

To make what is termed a pound pudding, take of raisins 
well-stoned, currants thoroughly washed, one pound each ; chop 
a pound of suet very finely and mix with them, add a quarter 
of a pound of flour, or bread very finely crumbled, three ounces 
of sugar, one ounce and a half of grated lemon peel, a blade of 
mace, half a small nutmeg, half a dozen eggs well beaten ; work 
it well together, put it into a cloth, tie it firmly — allowing room 
to swell — and boil, not less than five hours. It should not be 
suffered to stop boiling. 



172 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Take two pounds of potatoes, wash, boil and mash them ; 
when cold add a pint of new milk, three eggs well beaten, two 
ounces of moist sugar, and a little nutmeg. Bake it. 

DERBYSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mix gradually two tablespoons full of flour with a pint of 
milk, boil it till thick, and when cold add three ounces of but- 
ter beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, the 
rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five and whites of three 
eggs, and a little salt ; mix all well together, put it in a dish 
lined round with paste, and bake it in a quick oven. This pud- 
ding is very nice cold. 

PUDDINGS IN HASTE. 

To grated bread add suet shred, a few currants, the yolks of 
four eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon peel, and 
ginger ; mix and form it into balls, about the size and shape 
of an egg, with a little flour. Put them into boiling water, and 
boil them for twenty minutes. 

QUAKING PUDDING. 

Take a quart of cream, scald it, and when nearly cold, put 
to it four eggs well beaten, a spoon full and a half of flour, some 
nutmeg and sugar ; tie it tight in a buttered cloth, boil it an 
hour, and turn it out carefully. Serve with melted butter, a 
little wine and sugar. 

QUINCE PUDDING. 

Take as many ripe quinces as will yield a pound of pulp ; 
to this add half a pound of powdered sugar, a little cinnamon ; 
mix them well, and add them to the yolks of eight eggs beaten 
in a pint of cream ; stir all together, and boil it in a floured cloth,. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETO. 173 

POTATO PUDDING. 

One pound of boiled potatoes, mashed with a little milk, 
and strained, half a pound of sugar, six eggs, one lemon grated. 
Bake an hour. 

BOILED ALMOND PUDDING. 

Blanch one pound of almonds ; beat them in a mortar to a 
smooth paste, with three teaspoons full of rosewater. Add 
one gill of wine, one pint of cream, one gill of milk, one egg, 
one spoon mil of flour. Boil half an hour. 

BOILED PLUM PUDDING. 

Take one pound of good suet ; cut it in small pieces and 
add one pound of currants, and one of stoned raisins, eight eggs, 
one nutmeg, grated, one pound of flour, and one pint of milk ; 
to the eggs, previously well beaten, add one-half the milk, and 
mix well together ; stir in the flour, spice, fruit, and suet, and 
the remainder of the milk. Boil from four to five hours. 

# CREAM PUDDING. 

Beat six eggs to a froth ; then mix with them three table- 
spoons full of powdered white sugar, and the grated rind of a 
lemon. Mix a pint of milk with a pint of flour, and a tea- 
spoon full of salt ; then add the eggs and sugar. Just before 
it is baked, stir in a pint of thick cream. Bake it either in 
buttered cups, or a pudding dish. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Stir a quart of milk very gradually into half a pint of flour ; 
mix it free from lumps, and put to it seven eggs, beaten with 
three tablespoons full of sugar, a teaspoon full of salt, and half 
of a grated nutmeg. Bake it three-quarters of an hour. 

BOILED CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Beat up six eggs, and add to them a pint of very good milk 
or cream ; sugar and nutmeg to taste. Butter the basin you 



174 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

boil it in, and dip the cloth you tie over into boiling water, and 
flour it. Twenty minutes will boil it. Serve with sauce. 



DELICATE RICE PUDDING. 

Boil half a pound of rice in three pints of milk, until the milk 
is absorbed by the rice ; turn it out of the saucepan, and when 
cold, add to it three well beaten eggs, with a little nutmeg and 
sugar. Put it into a buttered basin, and boil an hour. This, 
made in smaller proportions, is a light and pleasant pudding 
for an invalid. A bit of cinnamon may be boiled with the 
milk and rice. 

ROLY POLY. 

Make a paste crust ; roll it rather thin ; chop apples, and 
spread them, with some chopped lemon peel, over it; then be- 
gin at one side and roll it up ; tie it in a pudding cloth, and 
boil for two hours ; unless very small, serve with wine sauce. 

In the place of apples, any other fruit, jelly, or preserves 
may be used. • 

GERMAN TOAST FOR DESSERT. 

Cut in thick slices a loaf of stale bread — baker's is best ; 
lay it in a deep dish. Beat four eggs, and add to a quart of 
milk ; pour the liquid over the bread ; let it stand until it is 
all absorbed ; then lay the slices on a buttered griddle, and 
fry them to a delicate brown. Serve hot, with rich sauce. 
Bread prepared in the same way and baked, is very good. 

RICE PUDDING WITH CURRANTS. 

Boil for half an hour five ounces of whole rice, in a cloth, 
with room to swell ; then take it up ; add five ounces of cur- 
rants, three tablespoons full of suet, shred fine, and two eggs, 
well beaten ; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 175 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

In a pint of new milk boil two dessertspoons full of ground 
rice, adding a small piece of lemon peel and a little cinnamon. 
Keep it stirring while boiling, and let it boil ten minutes ; 
then let it cool ; when cold, add sugar to taste, a couple of 
well beaten eggs, and some nutmeg. Line your dish with a 
puff paste; pour in your rice, and bake a light brown. 

RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 

Swell some rice in a little milk, over the fire ; then mix it 
with either currants or gooseberries, scalded, or apples, pared 
and quartered, raisins, or black currants ; add an egg to the 
rice, to bind it. Boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of sago; wash it in several waters (warm,) 
then boil it with a pint of milk and a little cinnamon, stirring 
it often till it becomes thick ; pour it into a pan, and beat it 
up with a half pound of fresh butter ; add the yolks of eight 
eggs, and the whites of four, beaten separately, a little flour, 
half a glass of white wine, and sugar to liking ; mix all well 
and boil it. Serve with sweet sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Three pints of milk and a cup of sago, boiled together till 
the sago is tender, with a stick of cinnamon ; while it is hot, 
stir in a small piece of butter, four eggs, sugar to your taste, 
and a little rosewater or lemon. Serve with powdered sugar. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Chop half a pound of beef suet extremely fine ; add the 
same quantity of flour, two eggs, well beaten, a small quantity 
of pounded and sifted sugar, and a little salt ; mix well to- 
gether with milk to a tolerable consistency, and either bake or 
boil it. 



176 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

SWEETMEAT PUDDING. 

Take one ounce each of orange and lemon peel, and citron ; 
slice them very thin ; line a dish with puff paste ; lay the 
peel at the bottom ; mix the yolks of seven eggs with the 
whites of two eggs, adding five ounces of sugar; pour it over 
the sweetmeats; put it into an oven well heated, and bake 
thirty-five minutes. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak four tablespoons full of tapioca in a quart of milk all 
night ; then add a spoon full of brandy, some lemon peel, and 
a little spice ; boil them gently; add four eggs, the whites well 
beaten, and a quarter of a pound of sugar ; bake it. 

TREACLE PUDDING. 

To a pound of stoned raisins add three quarters of a pound 
of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of milk, a tablespoon 
full of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice ; stir all up 
well, and boil it four hours in a floured cloth. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. 

Take four ounces of vermicelli ; boil it soft in a pint of new 
milk, with a stick or two of cinnamon ; add half a pint of 
thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same quantity 
of sugar, and the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; put in a dish, 
and bake it. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Wash two large spoons full of tapioca, and put to a pint of 
milk ; the grated rind of a lemon, a small piece of butter, and 
sugar to your taste. Boil it an hour ; then add three well 
beaten eggs. Put it in a dish, and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with sauce, or sugar and cream. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 177 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak a coffee cup full of tapioca in a quart of lukewarm 
water four hours. Pare and slice apples sufficient to nearly 
fill your dish ; put sugar and spice to your taste. Pour over 
the tapioca, and bake an hour. Serve with sugar and cream. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Put a pint and a half of milk on the fire. Mix five large 
tablespoons full of either wheat or rye flour, smoothly, with 
half a pint of milk, a teaspoon full of salt, and half of a grated 
nutmeg. When the milk boils, stir in the mixed flour and 
milk. Let the whole boil for one minute, stirring it constantly ; 
take it from the fire ; let it get lukewarm ; then add three 
beaten eggs. Set it back on the fire, and .stir it constantly un- 
til it thickens. Take it from the fire as soon as it boils. Serve 
with sauce. 

CORN PUDDINGS. 

Grate sweet green corn ; to three teacups of it, when 
grated, put two quarts of milk, eight eggs, a teaspoon full of 
salt, half a teacup of melted butter, and a grated nutmeg. 
Bake the pudding an hour ; serve it up with sauce. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Mix ten ounces of finely pounded crackers with a wine-glass 
of wine, a little salt, and half a nutmeg, three or four table- 
spoons full of sugar, and two of melted butter. Beat eight 
eggs to a froth ; mix them with three pints of milk, and turn 
them on the rest of the ingredients. Let it remain till the 
crackers soften ; then bake it. ^ 

APPLES IN BATTER. 

Pare and core several small sized apples ; set them in a 
deep dish ; make a rich batter, and pour it over them ; bake 
in a quick oven for one hour ; serve with wine sauce. 
H* 12 



178 PRACTICAL COOKERT. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Corn starch makes an excellent pudding. Boil the milk in 
a pan, over a kettle of boiling water. For each quart of milk 
take six tablespoons full of starch, rubbed smooth in a little 
milk and three well beaten eggs. Pour them into the boiling 
milk, adding a little salt, and stir constantly for three minutes, 
and then turn it out for the table, or mould it in teacups, to 
be eaten cold. Sweetened cream with nutmeg is the best 
sauce. 

SUMMER SNOWBALLS. 

Simmer half a pound of rice until it is tender ; then strain 
it. Take five or six apples, of middling size ; pare them, and 
take out the core with a small knife or apple scoop, but do 
not cut them into sections. Into the hollow made by cutting 
out the core, put sugar and a little allspice. Divide the rice 
into a portion for each apple, and with the hand lay each por- 
tion equally over an apple, and tie them separately in a small 
cloth, and boil an hour. These dumplings or snowballs may 
be served with sweet sauce, or eaten with simple sugar, or 
molasses. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

These puddings must be made with the greatest exactitude. 
Cream a quarter of a pound of butter, and add four eggs, the 
whites and yolks, two ounces of white, pounded sugar, and 
two tablespoons full of flour ; beat the whole up slowly ; fill 
six small cups, and bake them exactly twenty minutes. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

BISCUIT PUDDINGS. 

Mix together a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, with 
the same quantity of brown sugar and butter ; five eggs, leav- 
ing out two whites, and then a quarter of a pint of milk ; bake 
twenty minutes in cups, as before. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 179 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Seven tablespoons full of meal, one of flour ; wet with a 
quart of milk. Thicken it over the fire like mush. Take it 
from the fire, and add a teacup of molasses, a little salt, and 
bake three quarters of an hour. 

SPOTTED DICK. 

Put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, half a 
pound of beef suet, half ditto of currants, two ounces of sugar, a 
little cinnamon ; mix with two eggs and two gills of milk ; 
boil in either mould or cloth for one hour and a half; serve 
with melted butter, and a little sugar over. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil a quart of milk, and stir in Indian meal till it is nearly 
as thick as you can stir it with a spoon ; then add a teaspoon 
full of salt, a cup full of molasses, a teaspoon full of ginger or 
ground cinnamon, and cold milk enough to make a thin bat- 
ter. Boil in a thick bag four hours. Care should be taken 
that the water does not stop boiling while the pudding is in. 
A dish made in this way, with the addition of a quart of 
chopped sweet apples, and baked from four to six hours, will 
be found delicious when served up hot, and eaten with sauce 
made of drawn butter, nutmeg, and wine. 

BOILING MUSH. 

It is very common to make mush by boiling only a few 
minutes. This is all wrong. It should be boiled one or two 
hours, and if longer, will do no harm. It will be necessary to 
occasionally add some hot water, to keep the mass thin, and 
prevent burning ; and it must be often stirred. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Pare tart, mellow apples ; take out the cores, and fill the 
holes with sugar. Make a good pie crust, and enclose each 



180 PRACTICAL COOKEKV. 

apple in pieces of the crust. Tie them up in pieces of cloth , 
well floured on the inside. Put into boiling water, and boil 
an hour, without stopping. Serve with pudding sauce, or but- 
ter and sugar. 

Ripe peaches, rhubarb, jelly, &c, may be substituted for 
apples. 

OXFORD DUMPLINGS. 

Soak eight ounces of biscuit, pounded fine, in just sufficient 
milk to cover it. When soft, stir in three beaten eggs, a tea- 
spoon full of flour, and a quarter of a pound of Zante currants. 
Grate in half a nutmeg, and do up into balls the size of an egg. 
Fry till a light brown. 

SIMPLE DESSERTS FOR SUMMER. 

Take six eggs, and beat them separately. With the yolks, 
a quart of milk, sugar, essence of lemon, or rosewater, 
make a custard. Beat the whites very stiff; have ready a 
kettle of boiling water, with a skimmer ; dip in slices of the 
whites just long enough to harden ; then lay them on a sieve 
till cold ; put the custard into a dish, and crisp and put the 
whites lightly over the top. Set on the ice, if convenient, till 
wanted, 

ANOTHER. 

Put plain boiled rice into a mould ; when cold, turn it out, 
and pour soft custard over it. 

ANOTHER. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar, and the same of butter, 
rubbed to a cream ; pour over a small teacup of boiling wa- 
ter ; put it in a lined saucepan, over the fire, and stir till it 
simmers. Have ready a pint of fresh strawberries ; stir them 
in carefully, and let them cook a moment. Put them into a 
deep dish, and stand them on the ice. Serve with cold rice, 
or sago. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 181 

CURD. 

To a quart of milk put a large tablespoon full of rennet 
wine; let it stand till it turns; then set it on the ice till 
wanted. Serve with sugar and cream, and sweetmeats, if 
you choose. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Beat the whites of six eggs, and a tablespoon full of white, 
powdered sugar, the same of currant jelly, to a stiff froth. Put 
a pint of cream into a deep dish, and pile the froth on lightly. 
It should not stand Ions:. 

YEAST DUMPLINGS. 

Make a dough with a tablespoon full of yeast, a little salt, 
and warm milk, and flour ; set it to rise. When light, flour 
your hands, and make it in balls the size of a common apple ; 
throw them into boiling water, and cover close. In half an 
hour take them up with a skimmer ; serve plain, with butter 
or with a sweet sauce. 

LEMON DUMPLINGS. 

The juice of a lemon and the rind, chopped very fine, two 
eggs, a quarter of a pound of beef suet, a quarter of a pound 
of loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of bread, grated. To be 
boiled twenty minutes, in a cloth. 

LIGHT DOUGH DUMPLINGS. 

Take a pound of dough ; make it into small balls, the size 
of eggs ; boil in plenty of water, and use if for roast or boiled 
meats, or serve with butter and sugar, or with gravy. 

TARTLETS. 

Cut your paste after rolling it thin with a fluted cutter as 
large as your tartlet pan may be round ; place each piece 
even into the pan ; press it down with your finger ; then put 
into each, either a piece of square crust of bread cut into dice 



182 PRACTICAL COOKERr. 

in the middle of each, or a very little piece of jam ; you will 
have to add more after they are baked ; sift some fine sugar 
over them ; bake them a light color. 

APPLE TART. 

Use good tart apples. Peel, slice and stew them with a tea- 
cup each of water and sugar to a quart of sliced apples ; add 
half a nutmeg grated, a saltspoon full of salt, and a little grated 
lemon peel, or lemon extract, or half a teaspoon full of ground 
cinnamon ; set them to become cold ; line small pie plates 
with rich pie or light puff paste; put in the stewed apples half 
an inch deep ; roll out some of the paste ; wet it over slightly 
with the yolk of an egg, beaten with a little milk, and a tea- 
spoon full of sugar ; cut in strips the width of a finger, and 
lay it in bars or diamonds across the tart ; lay another strip 
around the edge, trim ofF the outside neatly with a sharp knife, 
and bake it in a quick oven until the paste loosens from the 
dish. 

Tarts may be made of other fruits and sweatmeats in a sim- 
ilar manner. 



Pare and core six or eight good tart apples, so as to leave 
them whole, and place them in a pudding dish. Take a quart 
of milk, nine eggs, and sufficient flour to make a thin batter ; 
pour it on and cover the apples; bake it in an oven till it is 
done, and eat with butter and sugar or sauce. 

APPLE TART ANOTHER. 

Take some good baking apples, pare, core, and cut them 
into small pieces; place them in a dish lined with puff paste; 
strew over pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace,«iutmeg, cloves, and 
lemon peel chopped small ; then add a layer of apples, then 
spice, and so on till the dish is full ; pour a glass and a half 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 183 

of white wine over the whole ; cover with puff paste, and bake 
it. When done, raise the crust, stir in two ounces of fresh 
butter, and two eggs well beaten ; replace the crust, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

APRICOT TART. ' 

Take some apricots,, cut them in two and break the stones ; 
put them into paste with sugar, a small quantity of preserved 
lemon, and a few of the kernels; close it, sprinkle sugar over and 
glaze it. If the apricots are not ripe, boil them a short time 
in water, and drain them well. 

APRICOT SWEETMEAT FOR TARTS. 

Take a pound of ripe apricots, remove the stones, break 
them and blanch the kernels ; add one pound and a half of 
green gages, and one pound and a quarter of lump sugar ; sim- 
mer it until ihe fruit becomes a jam. It must not boil, and 
must be kept well skimmed ; clarified sugar will be found the 
best to use for this preserve. 

CHERRY TART. 

Line the sides of a dish with good crust ; strew in sugar ; 
fill it with picked cherries, and put sugar at the top ; red cur- 
rants may be added, if liked ; cover with crust, and bake. 

CURRANT TART. 

Line a dish with puff-paste ; strew powdered sugar over the 
bottom of it ; then put in alternate layers of currants care- 
fully picked, and sugar, till the dish is full ; then cover and 
bake it. 

The addition of raspberries or mulberries to currant tart is 
a great improvement. 



184 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

DAMSON TART. 

Line a dish with a good crust ; put in the fruit, and proceed 
the same as for any other fruit pie. 

GRAPE TART. 

Take the youngest grapes before stones are formed ; pick 
and scald them the same as currants, or gooseberries, and fin- 
ish the same as other tarts. More sugar will be required than 
usual, on account of the extreme tartness of the fruit. 

GOOSEBERRY (GREEN) TART. 

Use either whole gooseberries, or make a marmalade of 
them with a good syrup ; the last method is perhaps the best, 
as you can tell easily how sweet they are and ought to be ; if 
made of marmalade, the seeds ought to be taken out. 

PEAR TART. 

Peel some pears carefully ; cut them into quarters and re- 
move the cores ; if large and green, boil them soft in a little 
water, simmering them in some rich syrup, and place them 
with the syrup in a dish lined with puff paste ; cover and 
bake it. 

QUINCE TART. 

Take a few preserved quinces, put an equal weight of syrup, 
made with sugar and water and preserve, into a preserving 
pan ; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit ; when somewhat 
clear, place the quinces in a tart dish, with puff paste, as usual. 
Cover, bake it, and when done, lift the top gently, put in the 
syrup, and serve. 

RASPBERRY TART. 

Line a dish with nice puff paste ; put in fruit and sugar ; 
lay bars across, and bake. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 185 

RASPBERRY TART WITH CREAM. 

•Put some raspberries in a patty pan lined with thin puff 
paste ; strew in some finely sifted sugar ; cover with puff-paste 
and bake it ; when done, take off the top and pour in half a 
pint of cream, previously mixed with the yolks of two or three 
eggs, and sweetened with a little sugar ; then return the tart 
to the oven for five or six minutes. 

RHUBARB TART. 

Take some stalks of a good size, remove the thin skin, and 
cut them in pieces four or five inches long ; place them in a 
dish, and pour over a thin syrup of sugar and water ; cover 
with another dish, and simmer slowly for an hoar upon a hot 
hearth, or do them in a block tin saucepan. Allow it to cool, 
and then make it into a tart; when tender, the baking the 
crust will be sufficient. A tart may be made by cutting the 
stalks into pieces the size of gooseberries, and making it the 
same way as gooseberry tart. 

STRAWBERRY TART. 

Put into a basin two quarts of the best scarlet strawberries ; 
add half a pint of cold clarified sugar, the same quantity of 
Madeira, with the juice of two lemons ; mix all well without 
breaking the strawberries, and put them into a puff paste pre- 
viously baked ; keep them very cool. 

TARTLETS. 

Line several tartlet pans with a thin, short paste ; fill them 
with any preserve or sweetmeat you like ; then with paste 
shred very fine (moulds made for this purpose do them much 
neater and more quickly) cross them ; egg them ; place them 
in a baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven. 



186 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

YELLOW ALMOND SWEETMEATS. 

Blanch a pound of sweet almonds ; wash them in cold wa- 
ter, and when quite dry, pound them with a sufficient quantity of 
yolks of eggs into a fine but rather stiff paste ; add to them a 
pound of powdered sugar, and the rinds of two lemons gra- 
ted ; knead the paste well with your hands, first sprinkling the 
table with sugar. Form the paste into what figures you 
please, such as fleur-de-lis, trefoil, &c, &c, each being about 
the size and weight of a macaroon. Place them on a white 
paper and on an iron plate ; fry them in a moderately hot 
stove. If they are of a deep yellow they are sufficiently 
done. These sweetmeats may be still further ornamented in 
the following manner : Boil some sugar in orange flower wa- 
ter, and as soon as the sweetmeats are taken from the stove or 
oven, wash them over with a light brush, dipped in the syrup ; 
this will give them a delicious perfume ; when cold take them 
from the paper, and put them into glasses for the table. 

TO CUT OUT PATTY CASES, ETC. 

Roll your paste out about a quarter of an inch but first try 
a very thin bit in your oven, and you will find out the heat of 
the oven and the lightness of your paste ; and then cut the 
thickness accordingly. Have a plain or a fluted cutter, turn 
each piece of paste upon your papered baking sheet, take a 
smaller cutter and pass in the middle of the top of each, then 
egg each top with a paste brush ; nine will make a good dish. 
Roll out a piece of the paste, and with a cutter sufficiently 
large to cover the opening on the top, cut out the same num- 
ber for the tops, egg them, and bake them separately ; after 
your paste is baked, and before it is cold, with a small knife 
carefully put them in the screen until required. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 187 

" TO NEUTRALIZE THE ACID IN FRUIT PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

A large quantity of the free acid which exists in rhubarb, 
gooseberry, currants, and other fruits, may be judiciously cor- 
rected by the use of a small quantity of carbonate of soda, 
without the least affecting their flavor, so long as too much 
soda is not added. To an ordinary sized pie or pudding, as 
much soda may be added as, piled up, will cover a shilling, or 
even twice such a quantity if the fruit is very sour. If this 
little hint is attended to, many a stomach ache will be pre- 
vented, and a vast quantity of sugar saved, because, when the 
acid is neutralized by the soda, it will not require so much su- 
gar to render the tart sweet. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Line some small patty pans with a fine puff paste ; put a 
piece of bread into each, cover with paste and bake them. 
While they are baking, take some oysters and cut them into 
small pieces ; place them in a saucepan with a very small por- 
tion of grated nutmeg, a very little white pepper and salt, a 
morsel of lemon peel cut as small as possible, a little cream, 
and a little of the oyster liquor ; simmer it a few minutes, then 
remove the bread from the patties, and put in the mixture. 

MEAT PATTIES. 

The patty pans should not be too large ; make a puff paste, 
put a layer at the bottom of the tins ; put in forcemeat, and 
cover with puff paste ; bake them a light brown ; turn them 
out. If for a small dinner, five patties ; or seven for a large 
dinner will suffice for a side dish. 

MARROW PATTIES. 

Shred a few apples with some marrow ; add a little sugar ; 
make them up in puff paste ; fry them in clarified butter, and 
when done, sprinkle some sugar over them and serve. 



188 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

TURNOVERS. 

Cut into square pieces the thickness of a patty case ; put in 
the middle a small piece of jam ; double one side over the 
other, pressing it with your two thumbs, keeping the middle 
of a round lump ; egg the tops, bake them and glaze them. 

APRICOT PUFFS. 

Take some puff paste, roll it to about fifteen inches long, the 
eighth of. an inch in thickness, and six inches wide ; then place 
a small portion of apricot marmalade on the paste at equal 
distances, and two inches from the edge ; moisten round each 
bit of marmalade, and turn the two inches of paste over, press 
it down round the preserve so as to join the crusts, and then 
cut them out into semi-circular turnovers ; lay them on a tin, 
and bake them in a hot oven ; when almost done, sprinkle 
them with sugar, and glaze them. 

A MIXED JAM FOR TARTS OR TARTLETS. 

Take two pounds of apricots w T hen ripe ; take out the ker- 
nels and blanch them ; then add them to the fruit ; add to this 
two pounds of green gage plums, and two or three pounds of 
lump sugar ; then gently boil all until it is a clear jelly. Put 
it in small pots. 

CURD PUFFS. 

To the curd of two quarts of new milk well drained, add the 
yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two ; sugar, rosewater, 
nutmeg, and bread crumbs ; make it into a paste, cut into any 
shape you like ; fry them in boiling lard, and serve them with 
a sauce made with butter, sugar, and white wine. 

CHEESE PUFFS. 

Take half a pint of cheese curd strained very fine ; beat it 
in a mortar with three eggs, leaving out two whites ; a spoon 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 189 

full and a half of flour, a spoon full of orange flower water, a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet ; make 
the paste into very small round cakes, and bake them on a tin 
plate in a hot oven for fifteen minutes ; serve with pudding 
sauce. 

MERINGUES. 

Lay four eggs on ice for an hour ; weigh the weight of the 
eggs in fine sifted sugar ; then whip up the whites of those 
four eggs to a very stiff point ; when done, mix in gently the 
sugar ; . have ready a board an inch and a half thick, covered 
with white paper ; sugar the paper ; then with a silver spoon 
form the meringues the shape of an egg, but do not let them 
touch each other ; sift sugar well over them ; dry them in 
your hot closet, and when quite hard take them off the paper 
and scoop out the soft, and turn them over upon another pa- 
per; dry them again in the hot closet; fill them with jam 
or cream when you want them ; dish upon a napkin or cut 
paper. 

What you scoop out, will do to sweeten jelly, or glaze 
tarts. 

MERINGUES. 

Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth, then add the 
rind of six lemons grated very fine, and a spoon full of sifted 
sugar ; after which lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with 
a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it ; 
sift sugar over, and put them to bake in a moderately heated 
oven, taking care that they are done of a nice color ; then put 
raspberry, apricot, or any other kind of jam between two of 
these bottoms ; add them together, and lay them in a warm 
place or before the fire to dry. 



CHAPTER XV. 

PANCAKES, FRITTERS, MUFFINS, AND 
WAFFLES. 

BUCKWIIEAT CAKES. 

Mix a quart of buckwheat flour with a pint of lukewarm 
milk ; some prefer water ; add a teacup of yeast, and set it in 
a warm place over night to rise. In the morning, if sour, add 
a teaspoon full of saleratus, and a little salt. Bake as griddles, 
and butter them hot. These are nice for breakfast, or with 
butter and sugar for tea. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Take two pounds of buckwheat flour ; add a small saucer 
full of Indian meal, a little salt, and a teacup of yeast. Mix 
all together, with lukewarm water, to a thicker consistency 
than batter. Put it in a moderately warm place. When 
ready to bake, if not quite sweet, add a little saleratus, and 
bake on a griddle well heated. 

FLOUR TANCAKES. 

Take a pint of thick milk, or a quart of sour ; to the thick, 
add a pint of sweet milk, a little salt, a teaspoon full of salera- 
tus, and flour to make a batter. The thinner the batter, if 
baked well, the more tender they will be. Half a teacup of 
cream improves them. Butter while hot, and serve with sugar, 
honey, or maple molasses. For a common sauce, take a tea- 
cup of cream, a spoon full of sugar, and half a teaspoon of gin- 
ger. It is a delightful way of eating them. 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 191 

CREAM PANCAKES. 

To a pint of cream add the yolks of two eggs, two ounces 
of sugar, and a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg ; 
mix the whole well, and then fry them very carefully. 

PANCAKES A LA FRANCAISE. 

Into a stewpan put four ounces of butter, a tablespoon full 
of ratafia, pounded, the rind of a lemon, cut thin, two ounces 
of pounded white sugar ; mix in separately three eggs ; then 
add, one at a time, the yolks of three more ; mix well ; add a 
little milk, half a pint of cream, and a little orange flower wa- 
ter ; beat it well up to the thickness of a good cream ; put 
into your pan some clarified butter, and when melted, pour it 
away, and put in your batter for the pancakes ; they must be 
made very thin. When you have finished frying the pancakes, 
leave in the bottom of your stewpan one tablespoon full of the 
batter ; add to it a little orange flower water, some sugar, a 
small quantity of pounded ratafia, and the yolk of an egg ; 
mix this with some cream ; put it into a boat, and serve as a 
sauce. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

To three pints of warm water add half a gill of yeast, half a 
teaspoon full of saleratus, dissolved, and a teaspoon full of salt ; 
stir in yellow corn-meal, to make a batter; add a pint bowl 
of wheat flour, and beat the whole smooth ; cover it, and set it 
in a warm place to rise. In the morning, add two eggs, well 
beaten, and bake on a griddle, to a nice brown. Serve on a 
hot dish, with butter and syrup for breakfast. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a stiff batter of half a pint of milk, two eggs, with 
flour ; slice six apples thin ; dip them in the batter, and then 
fry them in lard. 



/ 



192 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

RICE PANCAKES. 

To half a pound of rice put two-thirds of a pint of water ; 
boil to a jelly ; when cold, add to it eight eggs, a pint of cream, 
a little salt, nutmeg, and half a pound of butter, melted ; mix 
well, adding the butter last, and working it only so much as 
will make the batter sufficiently thick. Fry them. 

EXCELLENT APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare your apples, and cut in thin slices, and mix them with 
your flour ; stir in a quart of milk and four eggs, a little salt 
and saleratus, to make a thick batter. Fry in plenty of lard. 
Lemon or currants may be used, instead of apples. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Take a quart of sweet milk, and a teacup of cream, four 
eggs, beat to a froth, half a nutmeg, or grated lemon peel, and 
a teaspoon full of salt. Stir them with flour sufficient to make 
a thick batter ; dissolve a small teaspoon full of saleratus, and 
stir in ; then fry in lard. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Strain some of their own liquor, and make a thin batter with 
two eggs, and some salt and flour ; stir the oysters in ; make 
some butter and lard hot, in a thick bottomed frying pan, and 
pour in the fritters ; let it fry to a nice brown on both sides. 

Or put it in the pan with a large spoon, allowing an oyster for 
each spoon full of batter ; the oysters for these last must be 
large ; the former may be small. 

PLAIN FRITTERS. 

To a quart of buttermilk, or sour milk, put a pint or more 
of sweet milk, three beaten eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, and a 
teaspoon of saleratus ; stir in flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter. Have your lard hot, and drop them neatly by the spoon 
full into the lard, and fry them to a light brown. Serve them 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 193 

with liquid pudding sauce, or sprinkle over them sugar and 
nutmeg, or serve plain. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint of grated green corn, one cup of flour, one dessert- 
spoon full of salt, one teaspoon full of pepper, and one egg. 

Mix the ingredients together ; drop and fry them in hot lard, 
lu taste they resemble fried oysters. They are an excellent 
relish for breakfast, and a good side-dish for dinner. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core some fine, large pippins, and cut them into 
round slices. Soak them in wine, sugar, and nutmeg, for two 
or three hours. Make a batter of four eggs, a tablespoon full 
of rosewater, a tablespoon full of wine, a tablespoon full of 
milk ; thicken with enough flour, stirred in by degrees, to make 
a batter ; mix it two or three hours before it is wanted, that 
it may be light. Heat some butter in a frying pan ; dip each 
slice of apple separately into the batter, and fry them brown; 
sift pounded sugar, and grate nutmeg over them. 

FRITTERS, AU BLANC. 

Mix a hand full of rice flour with milk ; set it on the fire ; 
stir constantly, adding a little cream, sugar, and lemon peel ; 
when thickened, remove it from the fire ; when cold, roll it in 
balls the size of a walnut ; dip them in batter, and fry them. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Take some oranges ; pare off the rind quite close ; cut them 
in quarters, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour ; then 
drain them ; take out the seeds ; put the oranges into a light 
syrup, and simmer till the syrup thickens ; remove them from 
the fire ; let them cool ; cover them with syrup ; dip each 
quarter into butter, and fry them to a nice color; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and serve them. 

I • 13 



194 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Blanch some of the largest oysters you can get, but do not 
let them boil ; strain the liquor, and season with cayenne pep- 
per, and a few drops of essence of anchovies ; make this liquor 
into a good thick batter, using a little cream ; have your stew- 
pan, with lard, quite hot; then dip them separately into the bat- 
ter, and fry them ; use silver skewers for them ; if not, dish 
on a napkin and fried parsley. 

MUFFINS. 

Mix a quart of wheat flour smoothly with a pint and a half 
of lukewarm milk, half a teacup of yeast, a couple of "beaten 
eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, and a couple of tablespoons full of 
lukewarm, melted butter. Set the batter in a warm place to 
rise. When light, butter your muffin cups, turn in the mix- 
ture, and bake the muffins to a light brown. 

INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. 

To a quart of meal pour boiling water, stirring constantly, 
until a thick batter ; let it cool ; while warm, add a small tea- 
cup of butter, a teaspoon full of salt, and a tablespoon full of 
yeast, with two well beaten eggs ; set it in a warm place for 
two hours ; then stir it smooth, and bake in small cakes, on a 
griddle ; when one side is a rich brown, turn the other ; lay 
them singly on a hot dish, and serve. These may be made 
without the yeast, and baked as soon as mixed. 

FLOUR WAFFLES, RAISED. 

Take warm milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a thick 
batter. The milk should be stirred in gradually, so as to have 
it free from lumps. Add a tablespoon full of melted butter, 
a couple of beaten eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, and half a tea- 
cup of yeast. When risen, fill your waffle-irons with the bat- 
ter ; bake them on a hot bed of coals. After they have been 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 195 

on the fire 'two or three minutes, turn the waffle-irons over ; 
when brown on both sides, they are sufficiently baked. The 
waffle-irons should be well greased with lard, and very hot, 
before each one is put in. The waffles should be buttered as 
soon as cooked. Serve them up with powdered white sugar 
and cinnamon. 

QUICK WAFFLES. 

Mix flour and cold milk together, to make a thick batter ; 
to a quart of the flour put six beaten eggs, a tablespoon full of 
melted butter, and a teaspoon full of salt. Some cooks add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a nutmeg. Bake them 
immediately. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

Mix a teacup and a half of boiled rice with a pint of milk ; 
after warming it, stir in a pint of cold milk, and a teaspoon full 
of salt. Stir in four eggs, well beaten, and sufficient flour to 
make a thick batter. Bake in waffle-irons, as before. 



CHAPTER XVI. 
EGGS AND OMELETS. 

For making omelets, or frying eggs, it is best to have an 
omelet pan, which is thick bottomed, and about six inches in 
diameter; this is the best also for pancakes, fritters, or for 
frying oysters. For turning omelets, fried oysters, fried pars- 
ley, <kc, use a skimmer. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Wash them ; put them into boiling water, in their shells ; 
keep the water boiling — three minutes for very soft — five, that 
the yolk only may be soft; six minutes will boil the yolk 
hard, for eating. Eight minutes are required for boiling eggs 
for salad, or garnish. When done, take them from the boiling 
water, into a basin of cold water, which will prevent the yolk 
turning dark or black. 

Another way, which is very nice, is to break the shells, and 
drop the eggs into a pan of scalding hot water; let it stand 
till the white has set ; then put the pan on a moderate fire ; 
when the water boils up, the eggs are cooked sufficiently. 
Eggs look very prettily cooked in this way, the yolk being 
just visible through the white. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break the eggs into a pan ; beat them to a froth ; then put 
them into a buttered tin pan ; set the pan on a few coals ; put 
in a small lump of butter, and a little salt; let them cook 
very slowly, stirring them constantly, till they become quite 
thick; then turn them on to buttered toast. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 197 

TO DRESS EGGS. 

Break your eggs separately in caps ; have ready a large 
stewpan, half full of water ; let it simmer ; then put in your 
eggs, not too many at a time ; some like them done less than 
others ; therefore, boil them accordingly ; have ready by your 
side a dish of warm water, and when your eggs are sufficiently 
done put them into this clean water ; trim them smooth and 
round ; dish them on pieces of toast, buttered ; if for dinner, 
upon prepared spinach or potatoes. 

SCOTCH EGGS. 

Boil hard six eggs ; take off the shells ; then mask each egg 
with some raw forcemeat, rolling each egg in some grated 
tongue or ham ; press this with your hands close to the eggs ; 
roll each egg in some very fine bread crumbs ; fry them to a 
fine yellow color ; put in your dish a sharp sauce or plain 
gravy, or dry upon a napkin, and fried parsley. 

OMELET. 

Take as many eggs as you think proper, according to the 
size of your omelet; break them into a basin, with some 
chopped parsley and salt ; then beat them well, and season 
them according to taste; have ready some onions, chopped 
small ; put some butter into a frying pan, and when it is hot, 
but not to burn, put in your chopped onions ; give them two 
or three turns : add your eggs to it, and fry the whole to a 
nice brown ; you must only fry one side ; when done, turn it 
into a dish, the fried side uppermost, and serve. 

OMELET AU NATURE L. 

Break eight or ten eggs into a pan ; add pepper, salt, and a 
spoon full of cold water ; beat them up with a whisk ; in the 
meantime, put some fresh butter into a frying pan ; when it is 
quite melted, and nearly boiling, put in the eggs with a skim- 



198 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

mer. As it is frying, take up the edges, that they may be 
properly done ; when cooked, double it. Serve very hot. 

ONION OMELET. 

Cut some very white onions into slices ; give them a few 
turns over the fire; when nearly done, moisten them with 
cream, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; mix this 
with half a dozen eggs ; beat the whole up well, and fry the 
omelet either in oil or butter. 

OMELET, W T ITH HAM, ETC. 

Beat the eggs to a froth, and to a dozen of eggs put three 
ounces of finely minced boiled ham, beef, or veal ; if the latter 
meat is used, add a little salt. Melt a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; mix a little of it with the eggs ; it should be just luke- 
warm; set the remainder of the butter on the fire, in a frying 
or tin pan ; when quite hot, turn in the eggs, beaten to a froth ; 
stir them until they begin to set. When brown on the under 
side, it is sufficiently cooked. The omelet should be cooked 
on a moderate fire, and in a pan small enough to have the om- 
elet an inch thick. When you take them up, lay a flat dish 
on them ; then turn the pan upside down. 

OMELET FRITTERS. 

Make two or three thin omelets ; cut them into small pieces, 
and roll them into the shape of olives ; when cold, dip them 
into batter, or enclose them into puff paste ; fry and serve 
them with fried parsley. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Break six eggs ; separate the whites from the yolks ; to the 
latter put four dessertspoons full of powdered sugar, and the 
rind of a lemon, chopped exceedingly small ; mix them well ; 
whip the whites, as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest ; 
put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying pan, over a 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 199 

brisk fire ; as soon as it is completely melted, pour in the 
above ; stir it up, that the butter may be thoroughly incorpo- 
rated with the omelet ; and when that is the case, strain it into 
a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes ; strew powdered 
sugar over, and color the top carefully with a salamander. 

A SIMPLE AND PLAIN SWEET OMELET. 

Break up six eggs in a basin, with a few grains of salt, a 
grating of a lemon, a piece of citron, orange, and a lemon peel, 
chopped very fine, a gill of cream, some pounded sugar, a lit- 
tle orange flower water, a few grains of grated nutmeg ; fry it 
as other omelets ; trim it, and roll it up ; if approved of, put 
apricot jam in it ; dish it upon a napkin. 

APPLE SOUFFLE WITH RICE. 

Blanch half a pound of the best rice^in scalding water ; strain 
it clear; boil it in sufficient milk to cover it ; to this add a lit- 
tle lemon peel, and a small bit of cinnamon ; let it boil until 
the rice has absorbed the milk ; turn it into a dish, and when 
cool, raise a wall with it about three inches high, having first 
taken the precaution to egg the dish, to make it stick firmly ; 
smooth the rice to an even surface ; then egg it all over ; fill 
the dish half way up the wall of rice with apple marmalade ; 
beat to a fine froth the whites of four eggs ; pour them over 
the marmalade; then sift powdered white sugar over it; put 
it into the oven ; keep up an even heat, to give it a fine color. 



CHAPTER XVII 
BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 

TO MAKE BUTTER. 

Keep your churn, pails and pans sweet by frequent scalding, 
scouring, and exposure to the sun. Tin pails and broad tin 
pans are preferable. The milk should be strained into the 
pans after standing about ten minutes to settle. In winter 
warm the pans and churns with hot water; in summer cool 
them with cold. Keep your milk in summer where it is cool 
and airy ; in winter where it is warm. In warm weather 
skim vour milk as soon as it is thick ; in colder weather skim 
as soon as there is a good, thick cream, and be careful not to 
let it remain too long, as it will acquire a bitter taste. Churn 
as often as you have cream enough ; never less than once a 
week. It is better to churn 'every third day, if possible. If 
the cream is of the right temperature when commenced, it 
will not froth, and if it does, put m a little salt. Use none 
but the best ground salt ; work out all the buttermilk with a 
ladle in summer ; in winter use clean hands. If you wish to 
keep it some time, put it down in a jar or firkin, or pickle in 
layers, as clean and free from buttermilk as it is possible, 
leaving a space for pickle over it, in the following proportions : 
Half a pail of water, one quart of fine salt, two ounces of 
loaf sugar, one ounce of saltpetre, well boiled and skimmed. 
When cold, cover with this, and it. will keep good and sweet 
the year round. If to be used fresh, or sold, mould it into 
handsome rolls, and ornament. 



BCTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 201 

TO PRESERVE BUTTER FOR WINTER. 

Take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good 
loaf sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well together ; 
to sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, 
put one ounce of the above composition ; work it well, and put 
it into pots when quite firm and cold. 

TO MAKE YELLOW BUTTER IN WINTER. 

Just before the termination of churning, put in the yolk of 
eggs. It has been kept a secret, but its value requires pub- 
licity. 

TO FRESHEN SALT BUTTER. 

Work it over in small quantities in cold water, changing the 
water till it is clear. Then mix a teaspoon full of white sugar 
and a tablespoon full of line salt into each pound of butter. 
Do up in rolls, or pack in jars. 

TO CLARIFY BUTEER. 

Scrape off the outsides of the butter you may require, and 
then put it into a stewpan by the side of a slow fire, where it 
must remain till the scum rises to the top and the milk settles 
at the bottom ; carefully with a spoon take off the scum ; when 
clear it is fit for use. 

COLD BUTTER FOR TEA OR BREAKFAST. 

This you can make up into many pretty forms, as small 
pats, in shape of a pine, making the roughness with a silver 
fork, and some done on a crimping board, and rolled on a cut 
pattern, either with name or crest, or scooped wkh the bowl of 
a spoon, then dipping the spoon in salt and water each time, it 
will form a shell ; if sent up by itself, put parsley round ; it 
may be used with anchovies, potted meats, or grated beef, or 
tongue, or radishes, &c. 



202 PRACTICAL COOKER V. 

MELTED BUTTER WITHOUT BOILING. 

Two ounces of butter beat to a cream ; then add a table- 
spoon full of flour and a gill of cold water ; stir it over tne fire 
until quite thick, but it must not boil. 

TO MAKE CHEESE. 

The milk should be new and rich — a little more than blood 
warm. Your rennet should be previously prepared in the 
proportion of a piece of rennet the size of the hand to a quart 
of water. A tablespoon full of the water will curd a quart of 
milk. After warming the milk, place it in the tub kept for 
the purpose. When the curd has set, take a long knife and cut 
through the curd both ways carefully, and not break it until the 
whey is seen to separate. Let it remain until the whey cov- 
ers the curd well. Then place a ladder over another tub with 
a strainer and basket, and dip the curd and whey carefully into 
the strainer; let it lie and drain until it has nearly ceased, and 
then move it by raising the sides of the strainer. It should 
not be urged, as that will press out the cream, and alter the 
taste of the cheese. If prepared the same day, the curd must 
be salted enough to taste right, and put in a hoop, strainer and 
all, made smooth as possible, with a cover that will just fit in- 
side, and placed in a press. When turned, which should be in 
two hours, put it in cheese cloth wet with salt and water, and 
in eight or nine hours turn again, and pare the edges. Let it 
remain twelve or fourteen hours, then take it out and oil with 
salt butter, and place it where it will have air, but not be ex- 
posed to flies. 

THE BEST CHEESE IN THE WORLD. 

To make a cheese in the style of Stilton cheese, only much 
better, take the new milk of seven cows with the cream from 
the milk of seven cows. Heat a gallon of water scalding hot, 
and put into it three or four hands full of marigolds bruised a 



BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 203 

little ; strain it into the tub containing the milk and cream, and 
put to it some rennet, but not so much as to make it come very 
hard. Put the curd into the sieve to drain ; do not break it 
all, but, as the whey runs out, tie up the cloth, and let it stand 
half an hour or more. Then cut the curd in pieces ; pour 
upon it as much cold water as will cover it, and let it 
stand half an hour. Put part of it into a vat or a hoop nearly 
six inches deep ; break the top of it a little, just to make it 
join with the other, and strew on it a very little salt; then put 
in the other part, lay a- fifty pound weight upon it, and let it 
stand half an hour. Turn it, and put it into the press. Turn it 
into wet, clean cloths every hour of the day. Next morning 
salt it, and let it lie in the salt a night and a day. Keep it 
swathed tight, till it begins to dry and coat, and keep it cov- 
ered with a clean cloth for a long time. 

The month of August is the best time for making this cheese, 
which should be kept a year before it is cut. 

TO PREPARE RENNET. 

Take the stomach of the calf, empty it, and strew it plenti- 
fully with salt ; let it lay for a day or two, then stretch it out 
on two sticks, and dry it in the sun ; a piece of dried rennet, 
the size of your hand, is sufficient for a quart of water ; a table- 
spoon full of the water will curd a quart of milk. 

TO KEEP CHEESE THE ENGLISH METHOD. 

The inexperienced are apt to be deceived in cheeses of the 
finest quality ; when testing it by the taster, the smell is strong, 
and the taste acrid ; it is, therefore, rejected ; whereas, if cut 
and suffered to remain for two or three days in a dry closet, 
exposed to the air, the flavor would become both pure and 
agreeable. To avoid this error, the best plan is to lay in a 
stock of cheese, keep it in a dry cellar, in a box, bury it in 



204 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

saw dust, and in about three months it will be greatly im- 
proved, and fit to cut. Divide a cheese in halves, or take out 
one fourth, according to the consumption, and cover the cut 
parts of the cheese reserved with butter, or lay close to the 
side cut a buttered paper, and keep the cheese in a dry place ; 
the part in use should be exposed in the larder for about three 
days ; it will then be ready for the table. 

APRICOT CHEESE. 

Stalk and pare thinly a number of apricots ; take their 
weight, and put to them an equal weight of fine white sugar — 
the latter must be moistened a little — and boil together very 
quickly ; add the kernels blanched ; let it boil for half an hour, 
not longer; half fill small jars, and cover down for future use. 

ARTIFICIAL CHEESE. 

Well pound some nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, to which 
add a gallon of new T milk, t%vo quarts of cream ; boil these in 
the milk ; put in eight eggs, six or eight spoons full of wine 
vinegar to turn the milk ; let it boil till it comes to a curd, 
tie it up in a cheese cloth, and let it hang six or eight hours to 
drain ; then open it, take out the spice, sweeten it with sugar 
and rose water, put it into a cullender, let it stand an hour 
more, then turn it out and serve it up in a dish with cream 
under it. 

CHEESE CREAM A PLAIN FAMILY WAY. 

Put three pints of milk to one-half pint of cream, warm, or 
according to the same proportions, and put in a little rennet ; 
keep it covered in a warm place, till it is curdled; haw a 
mould with holes, either of china or any other; put the curds 
into it to drain about an hour ; serve with a good plain cream 
and pounded sugar over it. 



BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 205 

CHEESE CREAM AND MARMALADE. 

Boil a pint of cream, mix it with any kind of marmalade 
you please — a few spoons full will be sufficient — and a little 
dried preserved lemon peel chopped fine; when it is but just 
lukewarm, put some rennet to it, and serve with pounded su- 
gar over it. 

CHEESE AS ICED BUTTER. 

Take a pint of cream, with some grated lemon peel, and a 
good spoon full of orange flower water, and boil for a few min- 
utes ; when taken off the fire, add the yolks of a dozen eggs, 
well beat up, and mix together without boiling ; sift through 
a sieve, and put into an icing pan to freeze, working it the same 
as ices; it must be iced in such a manner that you can serve 
it with a spoon, like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clear 
ice between, to look like crystals. 

CHEESE CREAM ICED. 

Boil half a pint of cream ; then add half a pound of sugar 
to it, a dozen of sweet almonds, pounded, a little orange flower 
water, and grated lemon peel ; boil together a few minutes ; 
when you take it off the fire, add five yolks of eggs beat up, 
and stir it frequently, till they are well mixed with the cream ; 
strain it in a sieve, and put it into the icing pot ; when it is 
pretty well iced, work it well to put it into cheese moulds, ice 
it again and serve. It is also done with coffee and chocolate, 
in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened 
with four or five yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and 
moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. 

DAMSON CHEESE. 

Take eight pounds of damsons, and bake them in a jar till 
they are tender; then rub them through a cullender, put to 
them one pound and a half of lump 'sugar, and let them boil 
to the thickness of marmalade. 



206 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

CHEESE FRESH. 

Sweeten two quarts of cream with sugar, and boil it thin ; 
then put in some damask rosewater, and keep it stirred, that 
it may not burn. When it is thickened and turned, take it 
off the fire, wash the strainer and cheese-vat with rosewater, 
roll your curd backward and forward in the strainer, to drain 
the whey from it, put the curd into the vat as soon as it is 
cool, slip it into the cheese dish with some of the whey, and 
serve it. 

CHEESE FRITTERS. 

Take some mild cheese, add some milk and butter, and put 
the whole into a saucepan ; put to these ingredients flour, 
eggs, and sugar, and make into a paste, of which form your 
fritters ; fry them of a nice color ; then sprinkle with sugar, 
and serve. 

CHEESE PUFFS. 

Take half a pint of cheese curd strained from the whey, 
with a spoon full and a half of flour, three eggs — leave out the 
whites of two — a spoon full of orange flower water, a quarter 
of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it sweet ; beat it in a mortar; 
lav a little of this paste in very small round cakes on a tin 
plate ; if the oven is hot, they will take a quarter of an hour 
to bake ; serve them with pudding sauce. 

CHEESE ROASTED, TO COME UP AFTER DINNER. 

Mix three ounces of grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs, 
four ounces of butter, and three ounces of grated bread, a des- 
sertspoon full of mustard, a little salt and pepper, beat the 
whole well in a mortar; toast some bread, cut it into proper 
pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them ; put them in a 
Dutch oven covered with a dish till hot through ; remove the 
dish and let the cheese brown a little ; serve as hot as possible. 



BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 207 

RICE CHEESE. 

Take a pound of rice, boil it till it becomes thick as hasty 
pudding in rather less than half a pint of milk ; pour it hot on 
an ounce and a half of butter, the same weight of loaf sugar, 
mixing it well together; let it stand till cold, then add one 
egg and the yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

SAGE CHEESE. 

Take the tops of young red sage ; bruise in a mortar with 
some leaves of spinach ; squeeze the juice, mix it with the ren- 
net in the milk, more or less, as you like it, for color and 
taste ; when the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in 
with the skimmer till it is pressed two inches above the vat, 
press it eight or ten hours, salt it, and turn every day. 

CHEESE TOASTED, OR A WELSH RABBIT. 

Take a slice of bread and nicely toast it ; toast a slice of 
cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and, with a hot sala- 
mander, brown it, and rub some mustard over it. 

CHEESE TOAST. 

Take some butter, made mustard, and salt ; mix it in a mass, 
spread it on thin, fresh made toast, and grated cheese. 

POT CHEESE. 

Put about one-third buttermilk to two thirds of sour milk, in a 
clean vessel over the fire ; make it scalding hot ; then take the 
curd from the whey with the skimmer, and put it it into a 
muslin or linen bag, tie it up, and hang it to drain ; after an 
hour or two, take it down , moisten it slightly with sweet 
cream ;^put a little salt to it, work the salt into it, and make 
it in balls the size of a teacup ; press it close with the hands, 
lay a cloth on a dish to receive the cheese, cover it, then 
set it in a cool place. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, JELLIES, 
MARMALADES, ETC. 

CUSTARDS. 

Boil a pint of milk, with lemon peel and cinnamon ; mix a 
pint of cream and the yolks of eggs, beaten ; when the milk 
tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour 
it into the cream, and stir it well ; then give the custard a sim- 
mer till of a proper thickness ; do not let it boil ; stir it one 
way the whole time ; then flavor with a large spoon full of 
peach water, and two teaspoons full of brandy. If you wish 
your custard to be very rich, put in a quart of cream and no milk. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Select good sweet apples, such as will cook well ; pare, cut, 
and stew them ; when thoroughly done, stir them briskly till 
the pieces are all broken fine. Allow the apples time to cool, 
and thin down to the proper consistency with good milk, and 
bake with one crust, as you would bake a common custard, or 
a pumpkin pie. If a richer pie is wanted, a few eggs may be 
added. If the apples are totally sweet, but little sugar or other 
sweetening will be required. If desirable, spices may be added. 

APPLE CUSTARD ANOTHER. 

Pare, core, and slice twelve pippins. Boil a pint of water, a 
pound of loaf sugar, and twelve cloves, and skim. Put in the 
apples, and stew until the liquid is nearly gone. Lay them in a 
deep dish ; take out the cloves when they are cold ; pour in a 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 209 

quart of custard, and let it cook by setting the dish in boiling 
water until it sets. The same with quince, but more sugar. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

Blanch and beat three ounces of sweet almonds, and ofw 
ounce of bitter, fine, with a spoon full of water ; beat a pint of 
cream with two spoons full of rosewater, and put to them the 
volks of four eg-gs, and as much sugar as will make it sweet : 
then add the almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a 
proper thickness, but not to boil. Pour it into cups. 

BOILED CUSTARDS. 

Scald a quart of milk ; when cool, pour it into a mixture of 
nine beaten eggs, nine tablespoons full of sugar, and rosewater 
to your taste ; strain this through a sieve into your custard 
cups ; set the cups into a deep iron pan ; fill it half full of wa- 
ter, and boil them hard. 

SOFT CUSTARDS. 

Scald a quart of milk, with mace, cinnamon, and lemon peel; 
pour this into sixteen well beaten eggs, leaving out the whites 
of eight, and half a pound of sugar ; strain this through a sieve 
into a pitcher, and set it into a kettle of hot water, stirring it 
constantly, until boiled enough. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. 

Boil a pint of cream, with mace and cinnamon; when cold, 
take four eggs, a little rose and orange flower water, a little 
white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; mix them well 
together, and bake them in china cups. 

CREAM CUSTARD. 

Take the crumb of a baker's loaf, and grate it very fine, and 
add to it a quart of cream, with half a pound of fresh butter, 
and the yolks of a dozen eggs ; put to them as much sugar as 
will sweeten them ; then let it thicken over the fire ; make the 

14 



210 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

custards shallow, and when they have stood half an hour in a 
slow oven, grate some loaf sugar over them, and serve. 

CUSTARD PLAIN. 

Boil together a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cin- 
namon, and some mace ; then take twelve eggs, beat ihem up 
well ; sweeten them ; put them into a pan, and bake or boil 
them, stirring them all one way till they are of a proper thick- 
ness; boil the spice first, and when the milk is cold, mix the 
eggs, and boil it. The spice may be left out, and in lieu of that, 
four or five bitter almonds, to the taste. 

CHERRY CUSTARD. 

Take two pounds of ripe cherries, stoned and tailed, and put 
them into a preserving pan, with half a pound of powdered 
sugar ; when nearly done, drain the cherries well ; strain the 
syrup, and boil it until it begins to adhere to the fingers; then 
pour it to a fourth part of the cherries, with the juice which 
drained from them, and put them on the fire till the nap foams ; 
prepare the custard in the usual way; pour in the drained cher- 
ries; bake it for three quarters of an hour, in a brisk oven. 
Previous to serving at table, mark it with the remaining 
cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Take the yolks of ten eggs, beaten ; strain them, and whip 
■them with a pint of cream ; boil the juice of two lemons, sweet- 
ened, with the rind of one; when cold, strain it to the cream 
and eggs ; when it almost boils, put it into a dish ; grate over 
the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. 

ORANGE CUSTAUH. 

Beat the rind of a Seville orange (previously boiled very 
tender) in a mortar, t.^ a very fine paste ; add the juice of a 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 211 

Seville orange, a spoon full of the best brandy, the yolks of 
four eggs, and four ounces of lump sugar ; beat them well to- 
gether for ten minutes ; then pour in gradually a pint of boil- 
ing cream, beating it till it is cold, and put it into custard 
glasses. Place the glasses in an earthen dish of hot water ; 
let them remain till they are set ; then stick preserved orange 
or orange chips on the top. Serve either hot or cold. 

RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT CREAM. 

Take one teaspoon full of rice flour, a pint of new milk, the 
yolks of three eggs, a tablespoon full of sugar; mix the rice 
very smooth, and stir it, with the eggs, into the boiling milk. 

CREAMS. 

APRICOT CREAM. 

The same as raspberry and currant cream. Rub your ap- 
ricots through a sieve ; if jam, the same ; use a little lemon 
juice, and less sugar than to the other creams. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

To half a cup of water and a cup of powdered sugar put the 
juice of two oranges. Beat four eggs ; add, and beat them 
well together. Strain through flannel into a sauce pan ; set it 
over a gentle fire, and stir it one way until thick and scalding 
hut, not boiling, or it will curdle. Flavor with lemon. Serve 
as a custard in jelly glasses. 

ICE CREAM. 

Stir till perfectly smooth two tablespoons full of arrowroot 
(or fine starch) with milk sufficient to make a thin paste ; then 
mix a pint each of cream and milk, and boil; while boiling, 
•stir in the preparation of arrow root, and let it boil again ; 
then take it off, and stir in half a pound of loaf sugar, and let 



212 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

it boil again, [f vanillas are preferred, take the half of a bean, 
split in pieces, and boil it in a little milk, to extract the flavor, 
and stir it in with the arrow root ; but if lemon, add a few- 
drops after it is boiled ; or if strawberry, express the juice of a 
quart of ripe strawberries, and add to the powdered sugar, to 
boil with the whole. Freeze it in the usual manner. (See 
ices.) 

If preferred, the following may be used instead of the above. 
One pint of cream, three pints of new milk, one pound of loaf 
sugar, tw r o lemons, and half of a vanilla bean. Boil, and stir 
in the sugar gradually. If you have no lemon, use four eggs. 
Freeze as above. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Take a pint and a half of cream, the whites of three eggs, 
white sugar to your taste, and a part of the juice of a lemon; 
then whip it with a whisk made of a bunch of quills, or in a 
whip churn ; flavor with the rind of grated lemon or rose water ; 
and as the foam rises, lay it into jelly glasses. If preferred, 
the glass may be half filled with jelly, and the whip poured 
over it. 

EXCELLENT CRB 

Take three-quarters of a pint of cream; whip it to a strong 
froth with some, finely seraped lemon peel, a squeeze of lemon 
juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar; lay it on a sieve, 
in a form, and the next day lay it on a dish, and ornament it 
with very Light puff paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, the 
length of a finger, and about two thick, over which should be 
strewn sugar, with isinglass ; the edges of the dishes may be 
lined with macaroons. 

CHOCOLATE — WHIPPED CREAM. 

Disolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass 
of boiling water, over a moderate fire; then let it cool ; add 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 213 

to it a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and mix it with 
whipped cream. 

CHERRY ICE CREAM. 

Pound half a pound of preserved cherries, unstoned ; put 
them into a basin, with a pint of cream, the juice of a lemon, 
and a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it in the 
usual way. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. 

Put into a basin a large tablespoon and a half full of currant 
jelly, with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze in the juice of one 
lemon and a half; add a pint of cream, and a little cochineal ; 
pass it through a sieve, and freeze it in the usual way. 

CURRANT CREAM. 

Take some currants, thoroughly ripe ; bruise them in boiled 
cream ; add beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste ; then 
strain it through a fine sieve, and serve. 

Strawberries and raspberries may be done in the same way. 
The fruit ought to be sweetened previous to putting in the 
cream, which should be used almost cold, else it is liable to 
curdle. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. 

Take a quart of gooseberries; boil them very quick in 
enough water to cover them ; stir in half an ounce of good but- 
ter ; when they become soft, put them through a sieve ; sweeten 
the pulp while it is hot, and then beat it up with the yolks of 
four eggs. Serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Take the juice of four lemons, and the peel of one, grated : 
add two gills of syrup, and one pint of cream ; mix it all to- 
gether ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. 



214 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Pulp six ounces of strawberry jam, with a pint of cream, 
through a sieve; add to it the juice of a lemon ; whisk it fast 
at the edge of a dish ; lay the froth on a sieve ; add a little 
more juice of lemon, and when no more froth will rise, put the 
cream into a dish, or into glasses, and place the froth upon it, 
well drained. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve, with a 
wooden spoon ; add four ounces of powdered sugar, and a pint 
of cream and freeze. 

CREAM HASTY. 

Take a gallon of milk from the cow ; set it on the fire, and 
when it begins to rise, take it oft* the fire, skim off all the cream, 
and put it on a plate ; then set the skillet on the fire again, and 
repeat the skimming, till your plate is full of cream ; put to it 
some orange flower and sugar, and serve it. 

SNOW CREAM. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, and stir in two spoons 
full of white sugar ; flavor with rosewater or lemon ; add a 
pint of thick, sweet cream, and beat the whole together to a 
froth. This is to be served with a dessert of sweetmeats. 

TO KEEP CREAM. 

Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours, if 
scalded with sugar, and by adding it to as much powdered 
lump sugar as will make it sweet, it will keep good two days, 
in a cool place. 

CREAM AU NATUREL. 

Take some thin cream — let it be fresh — and put it in a bowl, 
on ice, to cool ; add to it powdered sugar, and serve it 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 215 

PINE APPLE CREAM. 

Have some pine apple prepared in syrup, and cut into small 
dice, putting in your cream, with a little of the syrup ; the 
other process, as before. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT CREAM. 

Use a pottle of raspberries, and the juice of a hand full of 
currants, passed through the sieve with raspberries ; then pro- 
ceed precisely the same as before. 

CREAM STRAWBERRIES. 

Rub through a fine sieve about four ounces of strawberries ; 
have ready, boiled in a small quantity of water or milk, two 
ounces of isinglass ; strain it, and put it to get cold, but not to 
set ; put in a large basin one pint of cream ; whip it with your 
whisk until it begins to thicken ; then whip in a piece of a 
lemon, free from seeds, a hand full of sifted sugar ; now the 
strawberries, and more sugar, if not sweet enough; whip in 
gently your isinglass — not more than a teacup full — whip it 
well, and if nearly set, put it into your mould ; if not a good 
color, as that of a strawberry, use cochineal coloring to it. 

RHENISH CREAM. 

Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water ; add the 
yolks of five eggs, the juice and peel of two lemons, half a pint 
of white wine, and half a pound of white sugar. Stir them all 
together, and let them boil gently, till thick enough to put into 
the mould. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Boil half a vanilla bean in a gill of new milk, until it is 
highly flavored. Have ready a jelly of an ounce of isinglass 
to a pint of water ; mix it with the milk and a pint and a 
quarter of cream, sweetened with white sugar, and stir till 
cold. Dip the mould into cold water before filling it. Make 
it the dav before it is wanted. 



216 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 

Put gooseberries into a stone jar, with some fine loaf sugar ; 
put the jar either in a stove, or in a sauce pan of water, over 
the fire ; if in a stove, a large spoon full of water should be 
added to the fruit ; when it is done to a pulp, press it through 
a cullender. Have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and 
a teacup full of raw cream, boiled together ; or you may use 
an egg instead of the cream ; leave it to get cold ; then sweeten 
well with sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it. 

APPLE FOOL. 

May be made as gooseberry fool, except that when stewed, 
they should be peeled and pulped. 

APPLE TRIFLE. 

Take a quantity of apples, and pulp them through a sieve 
until you have sufficient to make a thick layer at the bottom 
of your dish ; grate the rind of half a lemon fine, and mix with 
it ; sweeten to palate with sugar. Mix together half a pint of 
milk, the same quantity of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; 
scald it over a quick fire, keeping it well stirred all the time ; 
it must not boil ; add a little more sugar, and then stand it to 
cool ; when cold, lay it over the apples with a spoon ; cover it 
with a whip, which should be made about twenty-four hours pre- 
viously, and which should be thus made : to a gill of rich cream 
put the whites of two egi^s, well beaten, four teaspoons full of 
pounded sugar, some lemon peel, and a wine-glass of raisin 
wine; beat it well with a whisk, which is kept only for such 
purposes. A Goosebery Trifle may be made in the same way. 

ICES. 
Sorbetieres, or moulds for cream or fruit ices, are made of 
two sorts of materials — block-tin and pewter ; of these, the lat- 
ter is the best, the substance to be iced congealing more grad- 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 217 

ually in it than the former — an object much to be desired ; 
for when the ice is formed too quickly, it is apt to be rough 
and full of lumps, like hail, especially if it is not well worked 
with the spatula. The other utensils, fit for this operation, are 
a deep pail, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula, 
about nine inches long ; fill the pail with the pounded ice, over 
which spread four hands full of salt; then, having filled a sor- 
betiere, or mould, with cream, &c, put on the cover, and im- 
merse it in the center of the pail, taking care the ice touches 
the mould in all parts; throw in two more hands full of salt, 
and leave it a quarter of an hour ; then take the cover from 
the mould, and with the spatula stir the contents up together, 
so that those parts that touch the sides of the mould, and con- 
sequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquor in the 
middle ; work this about for seven or eight minutes, cover the 
mould, take the pail by the ears, and shake it round and round, 
for a quarter of an hour ; open the mould a second time, and 
stir as before; continue these operations alternately, until it is 
sntirely congealed and smooth, and free from lumps; take 
care to let out the water that will collect at the bottom of the 
pail, by means of the cock, and press the ice close to the sor- 
betiere, with the spatula ;' when the cream is iced, take it from 
the pail ; dip the mould in warm water, and do not let it re- 
main an instant ; dry it quickly ; turn it out, and serve as 
quickly as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this 
manner; the preparation of the articles of which they are com- 
posed constitutes the only difference between them. 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

For a large cake, beat eight ounces of fine sugar ; put it into 

a mortar, with four spoons full of rosewater, and the whites of 

two eggs, beaten and strained ; whisk it well, and when the 

cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the icing, and cover the 

J 



5318 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

cake well ; set it in an oven to harden, but do not let it re- 
main long enough to discolor ; keep the cake in a dry place. 

ANOTHER. 

Put a pound of prepared icing sugar into a basin, with the 
whites of two eggs ; beat it up well for half an hour, with a 
wooden spoon ; if too thin, add more sugar, and a drop more 
white of egg, and the juice of half a lemon ; beat it well. It 
must not run. 

ALMOND ICING FOR BRIDE CAKES. 

The whites of six eggs, a pound and a half of double refined 
sugar, and a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, with a 
little rose water ; mix all together, and whisk it well for an 
hour or two ; lay it over the cake, and put it in the oven. 

ICING FOR TARTS. 

Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well to- 
gether ; wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over, as 
you put them into the oven, or beat white of egg ; wash the 
paste, and sift some white sugar. 

CURRANT ICE. 

Squeeze some picked currants through a sieve ; add to the 
juice some clarified sugar, boiled to a very high degree; and, 
if you like, squeeze in the juice of four lemons ; it will make 
it more mellow; strain them again through the sieve; put 
them into the icing pot, and finish the same as all other ices. 

PINE APPLE CREAM ICE. 

Use the syrup ; and, when getting thick, add some small 
pieces of pine, cut in dice ; all the other process as for former 
creams. 



CUSTARDS. CREAMS, ETa 219 

FRESH STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

If for a quart mould, rub through four or five ounces of the 
scarlet strawberries into a clean basin; sweeten it with some 
good thick syrup; put in the juice of a lemon, half a pint of 
cream, and a glass of clear jelly, if you have it, in dissolve! 
isinglass ; in freezing, work it well and repeatedly with your 
spoon, when it begins to thicken and stick to the sides of the 
freezer ; do not let it be too hard before you put it into your 
mould ; color it, if not a good color, with prepared coloring ; 
paper the top and bottom of your moulds ; bring them in 
small ice and plenty of salt, and let them remain until dessert 
is called ; wash well the moulds from the salt and water, as 
the leasUdrop will spoil your ices ; cut off the projecting top 
and bottom before you dish them. 

CHERRY ICE. 

Stone two pounds of ripe cherries ; bruise, and set them on 
the fire, with a little water, and half a pound of sugar ; when 
they have boiled, pass them through a hair sieve into an earthen 
pan * pound a hand full of the kernels ; put them in a basin, 
with the juice of two lemons ; add to the cherries a pound of 
sugar, and strain on them the lemon juice and kernels ; mix 
the whole together, and put it into a sorbetiere, with pounded 
ice ; work the cherries up with it well until it has set ; then 
place it in glasses. 

CURRANTS TO ICE. 

Take fresh currants in bunches, and have ready some white 
of egg, well beaten ; dip them in ; lay them abroad ; sift 
double refined sugar over them thick, and dry them in a stove 
or oven. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One ounce of isinglass, eight ounces of loaf sugar, dissolved 
in a glass of warm water ; strain them through a fine sieve ; 



220 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

beat in a separate bowl five eggs; add one quart of fresh 
cream ; beat this all together with a wire whip, until it is hard. 
Line your dish with slices of sponge cake ; pour in the mixture, 
and put it on ice, until ready to serve it. Flavor with what 
you please. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. 

Put one large spoon full and a half of currant jelly into a 
basin, with half a gill of syrup; squeeze in one lemon and a 
half; add a pint of cream, and a little cochineal ; then pass it 
through a sieve, and finish in the general way. 

CURRANT ICES. 

Take some picked currants, and squeeze them through a 
sieve ; then take some clarified sugar, boiled to a high degree, 
and add it to your currant juice ; and, if you like, squeeze the 
juice of four lemons into it, which will make it more mellow; 
strain it through a sieve again ; then put it in an icing pot ; 
finish the same as all other ices. 



JELLIES. 

CLEAR APPLE JELLY. 

Pare and core some pippins ; put them into a pan, with as 
much water as will cover them ; let them boil gently until 
soft; let them "get cold ; then strain them through a jelly bag ; 
put the juice into your preserving pan, and to each pint of 
juice put one pound of fine sugar and the peel of two lemons; 
then boil it until it is reduced to the stifthesss of calves' foot 
jelly ; skim it well, and add the juice of a lemon ; it should 
be made in September — the flavor of the apple is better; if 
you cannot get the pippin, any acid apple will do. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 221 

APPLE JELLY. 

Pare and core some tart apples ; boil till soft in plenty of 
water, and strain through a jelly bag. Do not squeeze them. 
Add a pound of white sugar to each pint of liquor, and boil 
slowly to a thick jelly. A little cranberry or beet juice, put in 
on removing it from the fire, will give it a red tinge ; or, use 
saffron tincture, or spinach leaves, to color, if preferred. Strain 
again, and when cool, put into glasses and cover. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

This may be made in much the same manner as apple jelly. 
Add the white of eggs ; clarify it, and put it into glasses. 

APRICOT JELLY. 

Take eighteen fine apricots ; let them be of a nice red color ; 
stone them, and cut them in pieces into some syrup, usually 
made with twelve ounces of sugar; but for apricot jelly it 
should be rather more liquid than for other jellies ; when the 
fruit is done, put it into a napkin to express all the juice you 
possibly can, which you must add to the syrup in which the 
apricots have been done, and which has been previously strained 
through a silk sieve ; and, after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity of isinglass, to thicken it, finish the same as all other 
jellies. 

LEMON JELLY. 

To a pint of water put an ounce of white isinglass, pulled 
into shreds, and rinsed, and the rinds of six lemons. Stir till 
dissolved, and then add a pint of lemon juice, and sweeten 
with white sugar. Boil four or five minutes; color with tinc- 
ture of saffron ; strain, and fill glasses, when nearly cool. 

STRAWBERRY, RASPBERRY, AND BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Take the berries when ripe; mash them, and let them drain 
through a flannel bag, without squeezing it. To each pint of 



222 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

juice put a pound of white sugar, and the beaten white of an 
egg to three pounds of the sugar. Set it on the fire ; when it 
boils up well, take it from the fire, and skim it clear. Set it 
back on the fire ; if any more scum rises, take it from the fire, 
and skim it off. Boil it till it becomes a jelly, which is ascer- 
tained by taking a little of it up into a tumbler of cold water. 
If it falls to the bottom in a solid mass, it is sufficiently boiled. 
Seal it up in tumblers or cups. 

CRANBERRY, GRAPE, AND CURRANT JELLY. 

They are all made in the same manner. Take the fruit in 
its prime; wash, and drain it till nearly dry; then put it in an 
earthen jar, or pot, and set the pot in a kettle of hot water to 
boil, taking care that none of it gets into the jar. When the 
fruit breaks, turn it into a flannel bag, and let it drain slowly 
through into a deep dish, without squeezing. When the juice 
has all passed through the bag, put to each pint of it a pound 
and a half of white sugar. Put to each quart of the syrup 
the beaten white of an egg. Set the syrup where it will boil 
gently ; as fast as any scum rises, take the syrup from the fire, 
and skim it clear. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, and then 
try it in cold water ; if it sinks, it is done. Pour into tumblers, 
sealing them over with white paper smeared with the white of 
egg, (which will make the paper stick to the glass.) and place 
them in the sun till made. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Having stripped off the stems, put the fruit into a stone jar ; 
set it into a kettle of boiling water, until the juice runs freely; 
then strain it through a flannel ; to every pint of juice add a 
pound of loaf sugar ; let it stand till dissolved ; put it in a pre- 
serving kettle, and boil it twenty minutes ; skim it ; put it in 
small glasses, and when cold, paste paper over them. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 223 

CHERRY JELLY. 

Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark 
red, fleshy cherries, put them into a basin ; pound the kernels, 
and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a sieve ; mash 
the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting first in half a pot of 
currant jelly, then the kernels, lastly the lemon juice ; mix 
these together well ; then, having boiled and skimmed a pint 
of clarified sugar and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly bag ; 
pour the sugar, &c, over them ; run it through till quite clear; 
if not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar ; if to the contrary, 
add more lemon juice; wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it 
with the jelly ; do not turu it out till the last minute. 

MOSS JELLY. 

Soak Carragua, or Irish moss, in cold water a few minutes, 
to extract the bitter taste ; then drain off the water, and to 
half an ounce of moss put a quart of fresh water, and a stick 
of cinnamon. Boil till it becomes a thick jelly; then strain it, 
and season it to the taste with white wine and whi|e sugar. 
This is very nourishing, and recommended highly for con- 
sumptive complaints. 

calves' foot jelly. 
Boil two sets of feet in eight quarts of water, about five 
hours, or until the flesh cleaves from the bones ; strain it, and 
let it stand till it is perfectly cool. Take the grease from the 
top, and the dirt from the bottom. Then to two quarts of jelly 
add three pints of Madeira wine, three quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons with some of the rind, the , 
whites of eight eggs, beat very light, with some of the shells ; 
boil it until dissolved, then strain it till it is clear through a 
flannel bag, and put in forms to cool. First wet the forms in 
cold water. 



224 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

ANOTHER. 

Clean four calves' feet ; chop them up and boil them in four 
quarts of water till soft, and only one quart remains Let it 
become perfectly cold, then take off all the fat and scrape off 
all the dregs that adhere to the jelly. Put the jelly in a pre- 
serving kettle, set it on a slow fire — when it melts, take it from 
the fire, and mix with it half a pint of white wine, the juice and 
grated rind of two fresh lemons, and a stick of cinnamon or 
mace ; take the whites of six eggs and beat them to a froth — 
stir them into the jelly when it is cool — bruise the shells, and 
mix them with the jelly, then set it on a few coals. Sweeten 
it, when hot, to the taste, with white sugar. Let the whole boil 
slowly fifteen minutes, without stirring it ; let the jelly drain 
through a flannel bag into a deep dish. If it is not clear the 
first time, let it pass through the bag till it becomes so. The 
bag should not be squeezed, otherwise the jelly will not look 
clear. When transparent, turn it into glasses, and set the glasses, 
if the weather is hot, into cold water, and keep them in a cool 
place. This kind of jelly will keep but a few days, in warm 
weather. A knuckle of veal, and sheep's feet, makes a nice 
jelly, prepared in the same manner as calf's feet. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the lire, and dilute 
it with a little water ; when it boils and has been well skimmed, 
put in two ounces of clarified isinglass with a little lemon peel 
cut very thin ; let these boil till you have squeezed through a 
sieve into a basin the juice of six lemons, then pass your sugar 
and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould as any other jelly ; when 
* turned out, garnish it with dried jellies. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Take four tablespoons full of tapioca, rinse it thoroughly, 
and soak it five hours, in cold water enough to cover it. Set 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 225 

.1 pint of cold water on the fire ; when it boils, mash and stir up 
the tapioca that is in water, and mix it with the boiling water. 
Let the whole simmer gently, with a stick of cinnamon or 
mace. When thick and clear, mix a couple of tablespoons 
full of white sugar, with half a tablespoon full of lemon juice, 
and half a glass of white wine ; stir it into the jelly ; if not sweet 
enough, add more sugar, and turn the jelly into cups. 

SAGO JELLY. 

Rinse four ounces of sago thoroughly ; then soak it in cold 
water half an hour, turn oft' the water, and put to it a pint and 
a half of fresh cold water. Let it soak in it half an hour, then 
set it where it will boil slowly, stirring it constantly ; boil with 
it a stick of cinnamon. When of a thick consistency, add a 
glass of wine, and white sugar to the taste. Let it boil five 
minutes, then turn it into cups. 

RATAFIA WITHOUT SUGAR OR SYRUP. 

Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a 
quarter of an hour, then put it into a large bottle with the ker- 
nels, and also some apricot kernels ; to this add, if you wish 
the ratafia deep-colored, the juice of two or three pounds of 
black cherries ; put to your juice a half or third of the best 
brandy, and then bottle it, and when the fermentation has 
ceased, cork the bottles ; if the air is excluded this ratafia will 
keep for years. 

WINE JELLY. 

Take an ounce of isinglass, and break it into a bowl of wa- 
ter ; let it soak while getting the other things ready. Squeeze 
two good sized lemons, take out the seeds, cut the peel and 
pulp in small pieces, and add one pint of water. Take two- 
thirds of a pint of any common wine, such as is used for cooking, 
put port wine or brandy enough to give it the color you wish, 
fill up with water to make one quart of liquid to an ounce of 
J* 15 



226 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

isinglass, put all in the kettle, and sweeten to the taste. When 
it boils, add the whites of three eggs well beaten. Let it boil 
a few moments, then strain it through your jelly bag. 

COLORING FOR JELLIES, CAKES, ETC. 

For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the 
finest powder with a dram and a half of cream of tartar in half 
a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour ; add in boiling a bit 
of alum, the size of a pea, or use beet root sliced, and some 
liquor poured over. 

For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop 
of water, or use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the 
liquor and squeezed. 

For green, pound spinach leaves or beet leaves, express the 
juice, and boil a teacup full in a saucepan of water to take off 
the rawness. 

MARMALADES. 

MARMALADE. 

Marmalade may be composed of almost any fruit ; the best, 
however, for this purpose are apricots, peaches, oranges, quin- 
ces, eggs, plums, apples, &c; they are usually made by boil- 
ing the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them 
constantly whilst on the fire ; it is kept in pots, which must not 
be covered till the marmalade is quite cold ; the proportion of 
sugar is half a pound to each pound of fruit. 

MARMALADE OF APPLES. 

Scald apples until they will pulp from the core, then take in 
large lumps the same quantity of sugar as apple ; damp the 
sugar in water, then boil them, keeping it well skimmed; boil 
it until it is a thick syrup, then put it to the pulped apple ; boil 
it over a quick fire for about a quarter of an hour ; add the gra- 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 227 

ting of one lemon and six cloves, but take out the cloves again ; 
fill your jars. # 

TRANSPARENT MARMALADE. 

Select very pale Seville oranges, cut them into quarters, and 
remove the pulp ; put it into a basin and take away all skin 
and seeds. Soak the peels all night in a little salt and water, 
then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till tender ; 
cut them in very thin slices and add them to the pulps. To 
every pound of marmalade add one and a half pounds of double 
refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them together gently for 
twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear, boil or simmer 
for five or six minutes longer ; keep stirring gently all the time, 
taking care not to break the slices. When cold, put it into 
jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie down with brandied paper. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. 

Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them 
those which are of the deepest yellow aud the ripest, they must 
not be too ripe ; peel them, take out the stones, and chop them 
up, weigh twelve pounds of them, and put them into a preserv- 
ing pan with nine pounds of sugar, place your pan over a quick 
fire, and keep your preparation constantly stirring with a long 
wooden spoon ; to find out when the marmalade is sufficiently 
done, let a few drops fail into a glass of cold water, and if they 
do not spread in the water your marmalade is ready to put 
in pots. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. 

Boil two pounds of sugar with two glasses of water, skim it 
well until, on shaking the skimmer after dipping it in the su- 
gar, the latter drops from it like icicles, then you may put in 
four pounds of cherries picked and stoned ; boil them, and 
when the marmalade flows readily, take it from the fire and put 
it into pots. 



228 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

CURRANT MARMALADE. 

Strip your currants off from the bunches, and soak them in 
boiling water until they break ; then take them off the fire and 
lay them on a sieve to drain, and when they are cold pass them 
through the same sieve to clear off the seeds, and then dry them 
over the fire till you bring your sugar to the fifth degree of 
boiling, allowing as much sugar as fruit ; mix all well together, 
simmer it over the fire some time, then put the marmalade 
into pots. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Blanch the rinds of fifteen oranges without any of the white, 
till soft, then soak them in cold water for a few minutes ; drain 
and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve ; ascer- 
tain its weight, and for each pound allow a pound and a half 
of sugar ; clarify and boil the sugar till the bubbles rise strongly 
to the surface ; put in the paste and boil them together, stirring 
continually till the marmalade is done. To know when the 
marmalade is fit to turn out and be potted, take some up be- 
tween your thumb and finger, and if on opening them it draws 
out like a thread, it is done. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Gather «the fruit when fully ripe and of a fine yellow; pare, 
quarter, and core it ; put the quinces into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle water ; set them on the fire until they are quite soft, then 
take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain ; rub them 
through, weigh the pulp, boil an equal quantity of sugar, then 
add the pulp ; stir them together over the fire until it will fall 
from the spoon like a jelly. The marmalade is then fit to be 
put into pots, and when cold, cover them close. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 229 

RASPBERRY MARMALADE. 

Take double the weight of raspberries to that of sugar ; rub 
the fruit through a sieve and put the pulp into a saucepan, set 
it on the fire and stir till it is reduced to half; then pour on the 
sugar previously clarified, stir it well in, put it on the fire, give 
it a few boils, and then pour it into pots. 

BLAXCMAXGES. 

BLANCMANGE. 

In three pints of water put two ounces of isinglass ; let it 
boil for thirty minutes, strain it into a pint and a half of cream, 
sweeten it, and add a few bitter almonds ; boil it up once, let 
it settle, then turn it into any mould you intend to use. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. 

Take one pint of new milk, add to it two eggs well beaten, 
four spoons full of ground rice, two spoons full of brandy ; grate 
a little nutmeg, sweeten it to your taste, boil it ; when near 
cold put it into your mould ; when quite cold turn it out, mix a 
little sugar, cream, and nutmeg, and put round it in the dish ; 
garnish with red currant jelly. 

CORN STARCH BLANCMANGE. 

Dissolve three tablespoons full of corn starch in new milk ; 
heat a pint of new milk nearly boiling hot, then pour in the 
starch, stir it briskly and boil for three minutes. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

BLANCMANGE. 

One ounce of isinglass to one quart of milk ; add sugar, cin- 
namon and mace to your taste, put it by the fire until the isin- 
glass is dissolved, strain it, and put it in moulds to cool. 



230 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

BLANCMANGE, 

Break one ounce of isinglass in very small pieces and ay ash 
well. Pour on a pint of boiling water ; next morning add a 
quart of milk, and boil until the isinglass is dissolved, and 
strain it. Put in two ounces of blanched almonds pounded, 
sweeten with loaf sugar, and turn in the mould. Stick thin 
slips of almonds all over the blancmange and dress around 
with syllabub, or whip cream. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVED FRUITS, 

ETC. 

A very common discovery made by those who preserve 
fruits, &c, for family use, and are not sufficiently versed in the 
art of confectionery is, that the preserve either ferments, grows 
mouldy, or becomes candied. 

These three effects arise from three separate causes. The 
first, from insufficient boiling ; the second, from being kept in 
a damp place, assisted, in some degree, by the first cause ; and 
the third, from too quick and too long boiling. 

Preserves of all kinds should be kept entirely secluded from 
the air, and in a dry place. In ranging them on the shelves 
of a store-closet, they should not be suffered to come in con- 
tact with the wall. Moisture in winter and spring exudes from 
some of the dryest walls, and preserves invariably imbibe it. 
To prevent all risks, it is always as well to lay a brandy pa- 
per over the fruit before tying down. This may be renewed 
in the spring. They should be looked to frequently to see that 
they do not ferment. Whenever they do, the syrup should 
be turned from them, scalded, and turned back on them while 
hot. 

A pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, is sufficient to pre- 
serve most kinds of fruit. Some kinds require more and some 
less, than an equal weight of sugar. White sugar makes the 
most delicate sweetmeats — nice brown sugar answers very 
well for most kinds of fruit. The West India sugar-house 
syrup is better than sugar to preserve fruit, on account of its 
never fermenting. When sugar is used, clarify it, and put in 



232 Practical cookert. 

the fruit. The skimmer should never be left in the preserv- 
ing pan after the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum is re- 
moved. 

In boiling, the sugar is continuously rising and falling, and 
on falling, leaves marks on the side of the pan, which the heat 
of the fire would soon burn, and thereby spoil the whole of the 
sugar. To avoid this, have by the side of you a pan of cold 
water, and a cloth or sponge, upon which wipe the sides of the 
pan carefully the instant after the sugar has fallen. 

All kinds of fire-proof ware will do to preserve in, except- 
ing iron ware. The fruit should not be crowded while preserv- 
ing, and should boil gently. The fruit should be turned out 
of the preserving kettles as soon as done, and set away. Keep 
the sweetmeats in stone or China jars, that have never been 
used for other purposes. Glass jars are the best for delicate 
sweetmeats, such as strawberries or cherries. Preserves should 
be covered tight, and kept in a cool place. 

Fruit may be dried in a stove oven or in the sun — if in the 
sun, cover with glass to keep off insects ; if in oven, it must 
be of gentle warmth. 

TO CLARIFY SUGA.R. 

Take the quantity of fine white loaf sugar you intend to 
clarify, add to it of very clean warm water half a pint for ev- 
ery pound ; when dissolved, add to it the white of one or two 
eggs — as the quantity may require — well whipped, put it on the 
fire, and when it comes to a boil, pour into it an ordinary tea- 
cup full of cold water ; on its rising ugain to a boil, remove it 
and let it settle twenty minutes; skim the scum from the top, 
pour off the syrup into a clean vessel with sufficient quickness 
to leave all the sediment at the bottom, and such steadiness as 
to prevent any of the latter rising and mixing with it. 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 233 

COLORED SUGARS "FOR ORNAMENTING. 

Pound some sugar, and sift it through a coarse sieve ; lay a 
little upon a plate ; pour into it a few drops of carmine, or 
prepared cochineal, mixing it well in ; then put it into your 
screen to dry, stirring it frequently ; keep it dry in a canister 
for use when required. 

GREEN SUGAR. 

Pound a few hands full of fresh gathered young spinach ; let 
it be well washed and drained from the water; pound it well, 
stalks and all ; then twist it through a sieve into a stewpan 
with a little salt ; put this liquor on the fire to simmer, and 
when it is well curdled, strain off the water from the curd upon 
the back of a lawn sieve ; rub it through the sieve on to a 
plate ; use some of this to some sifted sugar, as for the former. 

This is the wholesome coloring in green pea soups or force- 
meats. 

SUGAR PASTE. 

One pound* of flour, four ounces of sugar, four ounces of 
butter, a little salt, one egg ; mix together with a little wa- 
ter. This is an excellent paste for a second course dish. 

TO CANDY FRUIT. 

Having prepared your fruit, steep it in the syrup, and lay 
it when done in an open sieve, until the bottom is covered with 
one layer; steep this suddenly in scalding water. This will 
remove any syrup which may cling to the fruit. Lay them 
aside on a napkin to drain, and go on with the others. You 
will have ready, finely powdered, some of the best loaf sugar ; 
sift this over the fruit until they are white all over, without 
being too thickly encrusted ; lay them so as not to touch each 
other on strainers, or the reverse end of small sieves ; place 
them in a gently warmed oven ; watch them carefully, turning 



234 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

them until dry. The warmth of the oven must not be in. 
creased, but must not abate until the fruit is quite dry. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING. 

For this purpose, have syringes of different sizes; draw any 
one you may choose full of the icing, and work it in any de- 
signs you may fancy — wheels, Grecian border, or flowers, look 
well, or borders of beading. The cake must, of course, first be 
covered with a plain frosting, which may be white. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Take three pounds of brown sugar and three teacups full of 
water, and set it over a slow fire for half an hour ; add a lit- 
tle gum Arabic, dissolved in hot water ; skim it as long as 
any rises. When perfectly clear, try it by taking a spoon full 
of it into a saucer ; if it is done, it will snap like glass. Fla- 
vor with essence of lemon, and cut it in sticks. 

Peppermint or hoarhound candy may be made in the same 
way by substituting the essence, or finely powdered hoarhound, 
for lemon. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Boil a pint of common molasses over a slow fire ; stir it to 
prevent its running over. When it has boiled for sometime, 
try it, by taking some in a saucer; when cold, if it is brittle 
and hard, it is done. Flavor with' essence of lemon, or oth- 
erwise. 

Or, pull it in your hands, after first having rubbed them 
over with sweet butter, to prevent the candy from sticking to 
them during the process. 

TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. 

Choose fine apricots, pare them thinly and cleanly, and when 
done take their weight ; cut them in halves and remove the 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 235 

kernels ; lay them with the inside upwards ; take the same 
weight of pounded loaf sugar and strew over them ; break 
the stones of the apricots, and blanch the kernels ; let the fruit 
lie in the sugar for twelve hours; then put fruit, sugar, juice, 
and kernels into a preserving pan ; simmer gently until clear; 
as the scum rises, remove it; remove the halves of the apri- 
cots ; as they become cold lay them in jars, and when the 
whole of the fruit has been potted, pour equally over thfm 
the syrup and the kernels. Cover the fruit with brandy pa- 
per and tie tightly down. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. 

Pick the fruit, wipe it, and then take the weight ; put it into 
an ice pot, the lid of which fits very close; add one-fourth of 
the weight in finely powdered white sugar ; cover the fruit 
with the best brown brandy ; lay over the fruit a piece of 
foolscap paper, doubled ; cover down the lid and place the ice 
pot in a saucepan of hot water, increasing the heat until the 
brandy is sufficiently hot to admit your linger remaining in it; 
it must not, however, boil ; take out the fruit when this takes 
place, put it into a jar and pour the brandy over it. As soon 
as quite cold, tie bladder skin tightly over the jars. 

Peaches may be preserved iu the same way. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

First weigh your peaches, then dip them in weak boiling 
lye, without being peeled ; take them out and rub them 
gently with a coarse towel ; be very careful not to break the 
peel. Have your syrup ready, made of a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit, scald the peaches in it, and add to a peck of 
peaches, one quart of white brandy, while the syrup is hot. 



236 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

GOLDEN PIPPINS, TO PRESERVE. 

Take the rind of an orange, boil it very tender, and lay it in 
cold water for three days ; take two dozen golden pippins, pare, 
core and quarter them, boil them to a strong jelly, and run it 
through a jelly bag till it is clear. Take the same quantity of 
pippins, pare and core them, and put three pounds of loaf su- 
gar in a preserving pan with a pint and a half of spring water ; 
let it boil, skim it well, and put in your pippins with the or- 
ange rind cut into long, thin slips ; let them boil fast till the 
sugar becomes thick, and will almost candy ; then put in a pint 
and a half of pippin jelly, and boil till the jelly is clear; then 
squeeze in the juice of a fine lemon; give the whole another 
boil, and put the pippins in pots or glasses with the orange 
peel. Lemon peel may be used instead of orange but then it 
must only be boiled and not soaked. 

TO BAKE APPLES WHOLE. 

Put some sound apples into a pan with a little cloves, a 
small portion of lemon peel, some brown sugar, a glass of red 
wine, or according to the quantity of fruit; put them into a 
quick oven, and bake them at least one hour. The sugar in 
quantity must be regulated according to the number of apples. 

APPLES PRESERVED IN SLICES. 

When the pippins are prepared, but not cored, cut them 
into slices ; take their equal weight of loaf sugar, put to the 
sugar a sufficient quantity of water ; let the sugar dissolve, 
skim it, and let it boil again very high; then put the fruit into 
the syrup. When they are clear, lay them in shallow glasses 
in which they are to be served ; put into the syrup a candied 
orange peel cut into thin slices, and lay them about the pip- 
pins; cover them with syrup. 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 237 

BOTTLED ASPARAGUS. 

Clean the asparagus as for boiling; before you bottle, plunge 
them first into boiling, then into cold water ; place those 
which are unbroken carefully into bottles, the heads downwards. 

BARBERRIES. 

Take one pound of sugar to one pound of barberries. Boil 
and skim the sugar ; put in your barberries, and let them boil 
a few minutes. If you wish to keep them any length of time, 
they will require frequent scalding. 

BARBERRIES FOR TARTLETS. 

Take barberries, the quantity you intend to use ; weigh, and 
for every pound put aside three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
sugar ; put the barberries in a stone jar, and put it nearly to 
the neck in warm water; let it simmer until the fruit is soft, 
then turn them into the preserving pan, add the sugar, and boil 
gently a quarter of an hour. As the fruit is a strong acid, no 
metal but silver should be used. 

BISCUIT OF PRESERVED FRUITS AND SWEETMEATS. 

Take dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, grapes, plums, 
oranges, and a little orange flower marmalade, pound them to- 
gether and sift in a sieve ; mix the yolks of new laid eggs, and 
tine powdered sugar therewith till it comes to a paste but not 
too liquid ; bake upon a paper in a moderate oven. 

BLACK TOPS SIMPLE RECIPE. 

Halve and core some large apples; lay them in a shallow 
pan, and sift some white sugar over them ; bake them until 
tender through ; make a sauce of one glass of wine, and one 
glass of water, boiled ; sweeten to taste. 



238 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. 

Choose the finest and ripest cherries ; leave on half the 
stalks, and put them into very cold water ; to about half an 
hour take them out, and drain them on a sieve ; weigh them ; 
to every pound of fruit allow a quarter of a pound of sugar ; 
when you have clarified and boiled it, put in the fruit. ; boil 
them up two or three times, stirring them gently with a skim- 
mer, then take them from the fire carefully, and put the cher- 
ries into bottles or glass jars ; when filled, add to each twelve 
cloves and half an ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag ; 
put to the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy in proportion of a 
pint and a half to a pound of fruit ; mix them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two months' time taste 
them, and if sufficiently flavored, take out the cloves and cin- 
namon ; cover the jars close. 

CHERRIES DRIED WITHOUT SUGAR. 

Stone your cherries and put them in their own liquor in your 
preserving pan; let them simmer gently, keep them moving, 
then put them on dishes all night ; the next day repeat the 
same process over the fire, and when cold put them upon sieves 
to get dry, in a cool oven, an hour ; do this twice. Put them 
away in boxes with white paper between them. 

CHERRIES PRESERVED DRY IN BUNCHES. 

Tie up some fine, equal-sized cherries in bunches seven or 
eight each j fasten them by the ends of the stalks, throw them 
into sugar that has been boiled; let the cherries boil up in it 
fourteen or fifteen times, then skim and pour it into an 
earthen pan ; set it on a stove till next day, when drain and lay 
out the cherries to dry. To each pound of fruit allow an 
equal quantity of sugar. 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 239 

CHERRIES TO CANDY. 

The fruit must be gathered before it is ripe ; prick and stone 
them ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. 

CHERRIES TO KEEP. 

Cut the stalks carefully from sound and perfectly dry cher- 
ries, and put them into clean and dry bottles ; when full, cork 
them tight, and rosin or seal them ; bury them in the ground, 
with the corks downwards. 

CHERRY JAM. 

Having stoned and boiled three pounds of fine cherries, 
bruise them and let the juice run from them ; then boil to- 
gether half a pound of red currant juice, and half a pound 
of loaf sugar ; put the cherries into these w T hilst they are boil- 
ing, and strew on them three-quarters of a pound of sifted su- 
gar ; boil all together very fast for half an hour, and then put 
it into pots ; when cold, put on brandy papers. 

BLACK CURRANT JAM. 

Gather your currants on a dry day, when they are fully ripe ; 
pick them from the stalks, wash them well, and to every pound 
of currants put a pound of double refined sugar, beaten and 
sifted ; put them in a preserving pan, boil them half an hour, 
skim and keep them stirring all the time, then put them into 
pots ; when cold, put brandy paper over them, and tie white 
paper over all. 

CURRANT JAM OF ALL COLORS. 

Strip your currants, and put them into your pan, with three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; add your 
sugar after your fruit has boiled a few minutes — boil all to- 
gether, mashing your fruit with a wooden spoon ; boil all 
gently for half an hour, theu fill your jars. 



240 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

CURRANTS PRESERVED. 

Take whatever quantity of currants you intend to use, of 
which a fourth part must be white currants; put them into a 
preserving pan with a glass of water; let them boil up until 
the fruit bursts, then strain the juice twice; clarify and boil 
some sugar, an equal weight to the fruit, pour the juice on it, 
boil them together a quarter of an hour, and having skimmed 
it well, pour it into pots. 

CURRANTS FOR TARTS, TO PRESERVE. 

Put a pound of sugar into a preserving pan ; for every pound 
and a quarter of currants have a sufficient quantity of currant 
juice to dissolve the sugar;- when it boils, skim it, and put in 
the currants, and boil them till they are very clear ; put them 
into a jar, cover them with brandy paper, and keep them in a 
dry place. 

WHITE CITRON PRESERVED. 

Lay some white citron, cut into pieces, in salt and water for 
four or five hours, then having washed them in cold water, boil 
them ; when tender, drain, and lay them into as much clarified 
sugar as will cover them ; next clay drain off the syrup and 
boil it. When quite smooth and cold, pour it on the citron ; 
let them stand twenty-four hours, boil the syrup and put in the 
citrons ; the third day boil both together, and put them into 
moulds to candy. 

DRIED DAMSONS. 

Take damsons that you have preserved, drain all the syrup 
from them, cover the bottoms of sieves with them, and put 
them into stoves which should be hot ; change the sieves ev- 
ery day till they are dry, and as you change the sieves turn 
the damsons, and when they are not sticky, take them out ; 
paper a box and put them in. laying paper between each layer. 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 241 

TO KEEP DAMSONS. 

Put them in small stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles ; set 
them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting 
a fire under, scald them ; next day, when they are quite cold, 
fill up with spring water, and cover them closely. 

TO PRESERVE FRUITS FOR TARTS OR OTHER FAMILY DESSERTS. 

Cherries, plums of all sorts, and apples, gather when ripe, 
and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over 
each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar, pounded ; cover with 
two bladders, each separately tied down ; then put the jars up 
to the neck in a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently 
for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from 
damp. 

GHERKINS FOR SALADS, OR PICKLED. 

The best sort are the Dutch ; they are used when boiled 
for garnishing salads and ragouts. For boiling, let them remain 
one minute in boiling water ; then put them into the ragout, 
or a good sauce, but they must not be permitted to boil again. 
For pickling, choose the greenest; cut oft' tails and head, and 
rub off the down; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar; pour 
over enough of the best vinegar to cover them, and let them 
stand for three days ; then draw off the vinegar, and boil it ; 
when a little reduced, throw in the gherkins, and boil them to- 
gether, and throw the whole into a jar, again. In six days re- 
move them ; boil them again, adding garlic and salt ; return 
them to the jar, and do not cover them until the vinegar is 
cold. 

GOOSEBERRIES,' PRESERVED. 

Put one quart of red currant juice to five pounds of loaf 

sugar ; set it on the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put 

in eight pounds of ripe gooseberries ; let them boil half an 

hour then put them into an earthen pan, and let them stand 

K 16 



242 PRACTICAL COOKERY - . 

for two days; boil them again till they look clear; put them 
into pots and let them stand a week, to dry a little at the top ; 
then cover them with brandy papers. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take what quantity you please of ripe gooseberries, and 
half their quantity of lump sugar, break them well and boil 
them together for half an hour or more, if necessary ; put 
them into pots, and cover with paper. 

PEACH JAM. 

Take the fruit when ripe, peel and stone them, put them 
into the pan, and mash them over the fire, till hot ; rub 
them through a sieve, and to each pound of pulp add a pound 
of white sugar and half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched 
and pounded ; let it boil ten or .fifteen minutes, and stir and 
skim it well. 

GRAPES PRESERVED IN CLUSTERS. 

Take the large grapes before they are too ripe, and pick ev- 
ery one; to every pound of grapes put a pound and a quarter 
of sugar; make a syrup of the verjuice, strained ; when the su- 
gar is quite clear, put the grapes, after they are strained, into the 
syrup into a deep jar, cover them close, and set them in a pot of 
scalding water over the fire to boil ; as soon as the grapes are 
tender, take them up and boil the syrup a little more ; when 
they are half cold, put them into broad glasses or straight jars, 
lay one cluster over the other, cover them over with brandy 
papers, and tie them up. 

GREEN GAGES. 

Weigh a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; the largest, 
when they begin to get soft, are the best ; split them, and take 
out the kernels, and stew them in part of the sugar ; take out 



CONFECTIONERY. PRESERVES, ETC. 243 

the kernels from the shells, and blanch them; the next day strain 
off the syrup, and boil it with the remaining sugar about ten 
minutes ; skim it, and add the fruit and kernels ; skim it until 
clear ; put it into small pots, with syrup and kernels. 

GREEN GAGES, DRIED. 

Take preserved green gages, and put them over the fire to 
warm ; drain all the syrup from them ; put them on sieves 
and into the stove ; change and turn them every day, or they 
will stick ; let them remain in the stove for three days ; then 
put them into papered boxes, with a sheet of paper between 
each layer of fruit. # 

GREEN GAGE JAM. 

Take some ripe green gages, and rub them through a large 
hair sieve ; put them into a preserving pan ; add a pound of 
sifted sugar to each pound of pulp; then boil to a proper thick- 
ness ; skim it, and put it into small pots. 

TO KEEP ORANGES OR LEMONS FOR PUDDINGS. 

When you have squeezed the fruit, take out the pulp ; throw 
the outsides into water, with a little salt ; let them remain a 
fortnight ; then boil them till quite tender ; strain them, and 
when they are nearly dry, throw them into a jar ; if you have 
any old syrup left, add it to them ; if you have none, boil a 
little syrup of common loaf sugar and water, and put over them ; 
in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it, till they look 
clear ; and, that they may be covered with it in the jar, you 
may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy 
less space. 

NECTARINES TO PRESERVE. 

Split the nectarines, and take out the stones ; then put them 
into clarified sugar ; boil them till they have thoroughly taken 
the sugar ; take off the scum ; cover them with a paper, and 



244 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

set them by ; the following day boil a little more sugar ; put 
it to the nectarines, and give them a good boil ; take off the 
scum ; cover them, and put them into a stove ; the next day 
drain them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted 
them a little with sugar; then put them in the stove again. 

PEARS, BAKED. 

Take half a dozen fine pears ; peel, cut them in halves, and 
take out the cores ; put them into a pan with some cloves, half 
a pound of sugar, and some water ; set them in a moderate 
oven till tender ; then put them on a slow fire to stew gently ; 
add grated lemon peel, and more sugar, if necessary ; they 
will be sufficiently red ; or they may be baked in a tin, with 
half a teacup of molasses, or sugar, and the same of water. 

PEARS TO KEEP. 

Choose the soundest ; peel and cut them into quarters; take 
out the cores, and put the pieces into bottles, which place in 
boiling water. If the pears are intended for dessert, one boil- 
ing is sufficient ; but if for cooking, they must boil five or six 
times; should the fruit thus bottled have fallen from the tree, 
instead of being gathered, they will require a quarter of an 
hour boiling. 

PEARS, JARGONELLE. 

Pare them very thin and smooth ; boil them gently in a 
thin syrup; let them lie a day or two in this syrup; add more 
sugar to the syrup, and boil the pears again ; put them by 
again, and keep daily repeating it, until they are clear; then 
dry them on a hair sieve, in the sun or the hot closet; keep 
what is not wanted for drying, in syrup. Boil in some of the 
same syrup, thinly pared in lengths, seme orange and lemon 
peels ; add all the syrups together; put this peel for a garnish 
when dished. 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 245 

PEARS PRESERVED. 

These may be preserved whole, pared with the stems on, 
or in halves, cored. Make a thin syrup, and boil them tender. 
If boiled too fast, they will break. They will be sufficiently 
cooked in half an hour. If you wish them nice, let them lie 
in the syrup, in a jar or tureen, two days. Drain the syrup 
from the pears ; add more sugar ; boil ten minutes ; skim, and 
put in the pears ; simmer them till they are transparent; take 
them out ; stick a clove in the end of each, and lay them in a 
jar when cool ; then pour over the warm syrup. For com- 
mon use, they are best done in quarters, boiled tender in a lit- 
tle water ; then add half a pound of sugar to a pound of pears 
to the liquor, and simmer them gently half an hour. They 
may be flavored with lemon, if preferred. 

PEACHES — PRESERVED. 

If preserved whole, they should be gathered before they are 
fully ripe, and before they part from the stone. Pare them, 
and boil in the syrup gently, until they are tender. If in quar- 
ters, crack the pits of half the peaches, and boil in the syrup ; 
strain, and cook in the usual way. Put up in jars and glasses. 
Some prefer them cooked in a little water, and the syrup 
poured over them hot. 

If you wish them preserved in brandy, they should be gath- 
ered before they are ripe, rubbed with flannel, pricked with a 
large needle to the pit, in several places, and run the needle 
down the seam. Put them in cold water, and boil them very 
gently until tender. Take them carefully out, and fold them 
in a table-cloth or soft flannel. Have ready a pint of brandy, 
a pint of the juice in which they were boiled, and a pound of 
loaf sugar. When the peaches are cool, lay them in a jar, and 
pour over them. They may be used as a dessert. 



246 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

PLUMS, CANDIED. 

Choose your fruit of a nice shape, and good size; cut them 
in halves ; lay them on a large shallow dish ; strew powdered 
sugar over them, and put them in a moderate oven, tightly 
closed; in half an hour's time take them out, and place the 
plums, one by one, on glass plates, to dry. 

PLUMS — PRESERVED. 

Maybe preserved nice with the skins on or off. If on, they 
should be pricked at the top and bottom, with a large needle. 
If you take them off, first turn boiling water over them. 
Plums require a pound and a half of sugar to a pound of fruit. 
Prepare your syrup thick, and lay in your plums to simmer, 
not to boil ; let them remain in a scalding state until cooked 
through, at least two hours. Then skim out, and boil the li- 
quor down about an hour. It must be thick, to keep well. 
The flavor will be much improved, by boiling in the syrup 
half a pint of the kernels, cracked. They must be strained 
out. Plums may be hardened by scalding them in alum wa- 
ter ; and when drained, pour the hot syrup over them every 
day for a week ; but if done with care, they will remain whole, 
preserved as above. 

QUINCES PRESERVED. 

Choose the quinces very ripe, yellow, and quite sound ; pare, 
quarter, and core them; put them into a little water, and scald ; 
as soon as they are soft, throw into cold water, and put them 
to drain ; clarify and boil an equal weight of sugar ; put in the 
fruit, cover, and leave them to simmer for another quarter of 
an hour; then take them from the fire; skim, and pour the 
preserves into a pan. In two days, drain off the syrup ; boil 
it ; add the fruit ; give the whole one boil, covered ; let it cool 
a little, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour ; after which 
leave it till next day, when proceed as above, but boil the 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 247 

syrup. As soon as the preserve is cooled, put it into pots, 
adding to each a little quince jelly. 

A little prepared cochineal added to the above will give 
the preserve a fine red color, in which case the jelly ought to 
be red also. 

TO KEEP QUINCES. 

Gather the fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; rub each 
carefully with a clean cloth, to remove the down ; then quarter 
and put them into bottles, corked tight; give them half an 
hour's boil in water. 

TO KEEP RASPBERRIES. 

This fruit may be bottled for keeping, like cherries ; they 
must not be more than just ripe. 

RASPBERRIES PRESERVED. 

Take five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe, raspberries ; 
pick, and put them into a preserving pan, with an equal weight 
of clarified sugar ; when they have boiled up about a dozen 
times, skim and pour the whole into a pan, till the next day ; 
then drain the fruit, and put it into jars; put to the syrup 
about two glasses of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil the 
sugar again, and pour it over the raspberries ; add afterward 
about a spoon full of currant juice to each pot, and when cold, 
lay on brandy paper, and tie them down. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To every pound of fruit use a pound of sugar, but always 
boil the fruit well before you add the sugar to it — it will be a 
better color; put your fruit in your preserving pan, mashing 
them with a long wooden spoon ; after boiling them a few 
minutes, add the same quantity of sugar as fruit, boiling it for 
half an hour, keeping it well stirred. When sufficiently re- 
duced, fill your jars. 



248 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Put twelve good tart apples in cold water, and set them over 
a slow fire; when soft, drain off the water, strip the skins of 
the apples, core them, and lay them in a deep dish. Beat the 
whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth ; put half a pound of 
powdered white sugar to the apples; beat them to a stiff froth, 
and add the beaten eggs. Beat the whole to a stiff snow ; 
then turn it into a dessert dish, and ornament it with myrtle 
or box. 

PINE APPLES. 

Take those that are ripe and fresh ; pare off the rind, and 
cut in slices half an inch thick. Sprinkle between them pow- 
dered loaf surrar, and let them remain till the next dav. Then 
with the usual syrup boil until tender, putting them in when it 
is cold. Keep it in a cool place. 

QUINCES FOR THE TABLE. 

We know, from personal observation, that few persons are 
acquainted with the best method of preparing quinces for the 
table; it is simply this: Bake them, remove the skin, slice, 
and serve with cream and sugar. Prepared in this manner, 
many prefer them to the peach. If you have never eaten them 
prepared in this way, try it, by all means, and you will thank 
us for the suggestion. 

RHUBARB PRESERVED. 

Rhubarb preserve, if made according to the following direc- 
tions, is almost equal to the celebrated Scotch marmalade. 
Procure six oranges, peel, and take away the white rind and 
the seeds; slice the pulp into the stewpan, along with the peel; 
cut very small ; add a quart of rhubarb, cut fine, and from one 
pound to one pound and a half of loaf sugar; boil the whole 
down, as for other preserves. 



CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVES, ETC. 249 

SIBERIAN CRABS, PRESERVED. 

Take their weight in sugar ; make a syrup with apple jelly ; 
when well boiled, prick the crabs and put into it ; let them 
boil a few minutes ; then take them out, and put them on a 
sieve to drain ; when cold, put them again into the syrup; boil 
it a few minutes more, and drain them as before ; do this a 
third time, observing the same rules as at first ; then put them 
into glasses or jars, and pour the jelly, boiling, over them. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Take some scarlet strawberries, quite ripe ; bruise them 
well, and add the juice of other strawberries; take an equal 
weight of lump sugar ; pound and sift it ; stir it thoroughly 
into the fruit, and boil it twenty minutes, over a slow fire, ta- 
king off the scum as it rises ; pour it into glasses or jars, and 
when cold tie them down. 

STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED IN WINE. 

Put some very large strawberries into a gooseberry bottle, 
and strew in three spoons full of fine sugar ; fill up with Ma- 
deria or good sherry. 

STRAWBERRIES PRESERVED WHOLE. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and double refined sugar ; 
lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in 
fine powder over ; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the 
sugar may touch the under side of the fruit ; next day make 
a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and instead of 
water, allow one pint of red currant juice to every pound of 
strawberries ; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied ; 
choose the largest scarlets or others, when not dead ripe ; 
they eat well served in thin cream in glasses. 



250 PRACTICAL COOKERW 

TOMATO FIGS. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to remove the skins; 
weigh them, and put them into a stone jar, with as much su^ar 
as tomatoes ; let them stand two days ; pour off the syrup, 
and boil and skim till no scum rises; then pour it over the to* 
matoes, and let them stand two days, as before ; boil and 
skim again. After a third boiling and skimming, let them 
staud in their syrup until drying weather; then place them on 
earthen plates or dishes, and put them in the sun to dry — that 
takes about a week ; then pack them in small wooden boxes, 
with fine white sugar between each layer. They will keep for 
years. Figs made of tomatoes are really better than those 
made of true figs. 



CHAPTER XX. 
PICKLES. 

RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN PICKLING. 

Procure always the best vinegar. Vinegar is so grossly- 
adulterated that it is really difficult to obtain it pure. The 
success of your pickle depends on the goodness of your vinegar. 

Use glass bottles or stone jars for your pickles ; if earthen 
jars, they must be unglazed, as the vinegar, acting upon the 
glazing, produces a mineral poison. Use saucepans lined with 
earthen ware, or stone pipkins, to boil your vinegar in. If 
you are compelled to use tin, do not let your vinegar remain 
in it one moment longer than actually necessary ; employ also 
wooden knives and forks in the preparation of your pickles. 
Fill your jars three parts full with the articles to be pickled, 
and then add vinegar up to the neck of the jar or bottle. 

When greening, keep the pickles covered down, or the evap- 
oration of the steam will injure the color; a little alum may 
be added to crisp the pickles, but it should be very small in 
proportion to the quantity, or it will give a disagreeable flavor. 

Pickles should occasionally be looked over, that the softest 
and those least likely to keep well may be used first. Store 
pickles, or those intended for use the following summer, should 
be assorted from the remainder when first made ; choose those 
most firm ; put them into stone or glass ware, with fresh vin- 
egar to cover them ; cover the vessel close. 

Beans, radish pods, tomatoes, small cucumbers, green plums, 
and nasturtions may be put in a jar together for assorted pick- 



252 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

les, with a few onions, if liked. Five or six peppers amongst 
two or three hundred cucumbers will make them sufficiently 
strong. Should the vinegar on pickles become white or weak- 
ened, turn it off, scald, and skim it, and return it to them either 
hot or cold. 

ASPARAGUS PICKLED. 

Cut and wash the green heads of the largest asparagus ; let 
them lie two or three hours in cold water ; scald them very 
carefully in salt and water ; then lay them on a cloth to cool ; 
make a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of 
vinegar and salt, and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two 
nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of whole 
white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them ; cover the 
jar with a thick cloth, and let it stand a week ; then boil the 
pickle ; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time ; 
when cold, cover the jar close. 

BEANS, FRENCH, PICKLED. 

Lay them in salt and water for nine days, then add a little 
vinegar and boil them in the liquor ; when they become green 
drain them, wipe them dry, and put the beans into a jar ; boil 
some vinegar, ginger, mace, pepper, cloves, and mustard seed, 
all bruised, and while hot pour it on the beans ; cover them 
close when cold. 

CABBAGE, RED, TO PICKLE. 

Quarter a purple red cabbage; cut out the stalk, then slice 
down the cabbage endwise; put them on a drying sieve, 
sprinkle each layer of cabbage with salt, which lay and drain 
two or three days; then put it into a jar, boil some vinegar 
with spice tied up in a muslin bag ; cut a beet root of good 
color into slices; the branches of cauliflower cut off, after it has 
lain in salt, will look and be of a beautiful red ; put it into a 
stone jar, and pour boiling vinegar over it. 



PICKLES. • 253 

CABBAGE, WHITE, PICKLED. 

Slice your cabbage thin ; then lay it in salt for twenty-four 
hours, strain it very dry, then put it in a stone jar with allspice, 
mace, and vinegar, and pour it on boiling hot ; tie it very close, 
repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. 

CELERY, TO PICKLE. 

Separate the stalks from the head ; clean them thoroughly, 
and put them into salt and water strong enough to bear an 
egg ; let them remain in this for a week or ten days, or until 
wanted to pickle ; then take them out, wash them well in clean 
water, drain dry, place in a jar, and pour boiling vinegar over, 
to which any approved spices may have been added. As is 
usual fur pickling, keep it well covered with vinegar ; if the 
celery is allowed to remain a long time in salt and water, it 
will be necessary to soak it in clean water for a day or two, 
changing the water occasionally. 

CUCUMBLRS, YOUNG. 

Choose nice young gherkins, lay them upon dishes, sprinkle 
salt over them, let them lie a week, drain them off, and put 
them into stone jars ; pour boiling vinegar over them, place 
them near the fire, cover them well with vine leaves, and if not 
a good green, pour off the vinegar and boil it again ; cover them 
with fresh vine leaves and continue doing so until they are a 
good color, as to make a better green you must use a metal 
stewpan, or brass skillets, which are very pernicious and 
poisonous. 

Use w r ooden spoons with holes to dish all pickles, keeping 
them always well covered and free from air. Another method 
of pickling cucumbers, which is good, is to put them in salt and 
water, as you pick them, changing the salt and water once 
in three or four days. When you have done collecting your 
cucumbers for pickling, take them out of the salt and water, 



254 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

and turn on scalding hot vinegar, with alum, salt and pepper- 
corns in it. 

EAST INDIA PICKLE. 

Chop cabbage fine, leaving out the stalks, together with three 
or four onions, a root of horseradish, and a couple of green pep- 
pers to each cabbage. Soak the whole in salt and water three 
or four days. Spice some vinegar very strong with mace, 
cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Heat it scalding hot, add alum 
and salt, and turn it on the cabbage, onions and pepper, which 
should previously have all the brine drained from them. This 
pickle will be fit to eat in the course of three or four weeks. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Take any size, but those ready to ripen are the best, place 
them in a vessel, and throw on a hand full of salt ; cover with 
boiling water, and let them stand till cold; then slice them 
through transversely, once or twice, according to the size ; then 
lay them in a crock, with thin-sliced onions. Prepare the vine- 
gar with cloves, cinnamon, and allspice, and pour on hot. Cover 
and set away for a few days. They will be found very deli- 
cious, and will keep all winter. Those who dislike onions, may 
omit them. 

PICKLED LEMONS. 

Take eight lemons, quarter of a pound of fine salt, two quarts 
of vinegar, quarter of an ounce each of cloves, nutmeg, mace, 
and cayenne, a little garlic, and two ounces of mustard seed; 
the whole to be put into a tight covered jar, and set in a 
kettle of boiling water; let it remain until the lemons are 
tender. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Use the close button mushrooms, rub them with a bit of 
flannel or coarse cloth, throw a little salt over them, and put 
them into a stewpan with a little lemon or vinegar, and a blade 



PICKLES. 255 

of mace, and a few cloves, and whole white pepper, keeping 
them well shaken ; then keeping it on the fire until all the 
liquor is absorbed into the mushrooms again ; then put as much 
white vinegar in your stewpan, sufficient to cover them, give 
it a warm, then put them into bottles or jars. 

MUSHROOM KETCHUP. 

Put a quantity of large natural mushrooms into an earthen 
pan, and break them up small, sprinkle salt over them, let 
them lie for several days, mixing them up each day, then let 
them stand about a week and not stir them until a thick scum 
rises on the top ; then strain the liquor from the mushrooms, 
boil the liquor with some peppercorns, mace, ginger, cloves, 
and some mustard seed tied in a muslin bag ; when cold, bot- 
tle it, leave the spice in, and cork it up tight, and in three 
months or so, boil it all up again, and when cold, bottle it. It 
will now keep for years. 

NASTURTIONS, TO PICKLE. 

Immediately the blossoms are off] and the knobs formed, 
gather them, and lay them in cold salt and water, changing the 
salt and water three days successively ; make a cold pickle of 
vinegar, a little sherry wine, shalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nut- 
megs cut in quarters, and horseradish cut small ; into this pickle 
put the nasturtions. In three months they will be ready for 
eating. 

NEAT'S TONGUE, PICKLED. 

Take neat's tongues that look red out of the pickle, cut off 
the roots, and let the tongues boil till the skin comes off 'easily ; 
season them, salt, pepper, and cloves, and nutmeg, rubbing it 
well into them while hot ; then put them into a pan, cover them 
with melted butter, and bake them ; when they are done pour off 



25§ PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

the butter, keeping back the gravy, put them into a fresh pan, 
and cover with butter an inch thick. 

OXIONS, TO PICKLE. 

Peel the onions till they look white ; boil some strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them ; let them stand in this twenty 
four hours ; keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam ; 
after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are 
cold, pour boiling vinegar, with ginger and white pepper, over 
them ; take care the vinegar always covers the onions. 

MANGOES. 

Procure muskmelons as late in the season as possible ; if 
pickled early, they are not apt to keep well. Cut a small 
piece from the under side ; take out the seeds, and if the cit- 
ron or nutmeg melons are used for mangoes, the rough part 
should be scraped off. The long common muskmelons make 
the best mangoes. Soak the melons in salt and water, three 
or four days ; then take them out of the water ; sprinkle on 
the. inside of the melons, powdered cloves, pepper, nutmeg; 
fill them with small strips of horseradish, cinnamon, and small 
string beans. Flag root, nasturtions, and radish tops, are also 
nice to fill them with. Fill the crevices with American mus- 
tard seed. Put back the pieces of melon that were cut off, 
bind it up tight with white cotton cloth, and sew it on. Lay 
the melons in a stone jar, with the part that the covers are on, 
up. Put into vinegar for the mangoes, alum, salt and pepper- 
corns, in the same proportion as for cucumbers ; heat it scalding 
hot, and put it over, then cover with a folded towel; let them 
stand for one night ; drain off the vinegar, make it hot again, 
and pour it on ; cover as before ; repeat this scalding four or live 
times, if necessary, until the mangoes are a fine green ; three 
times is generally enough. 



PICKLES. 257 

NASTURTIONS. 

Take them when small and green ; put them in salt and 
water ; change the water once in three days. When you have 
done collecting the nasturtions, turn off the brine, and pour on 
scalding hot vinegar. 

PEACHES. 

Take those of full growth, ripe, but not soft; wipe them with 
a flannel cloth, or pare them ; stick three or four cloves into 
each peach; lay them in a stone jar. Put half a pound of su- 
gar to a quart of good vinegar, add cinnamon and other spices 
to the taste ; let the vinegar come to a boil, skim, and pour it 
on the peaches. Let them stand two weeks, then pour off the 
vinegar and boil it, and pour it on again, and they are then fit 
for use. 

ANOTHER. 

Take any kind of fine large peaches that are not too ripe, 
wipe off the down with a clean flannel, and lay them whole in 
a stone jar. Dissolve a tablespoon full of salt to each quart of 
vinegar, cold, and cover them. Secure them well from the air. 
Plums, and grapes, and barberries, may be pickled in the same 
manner, except the salt, with the stems on. Add spices if you 
choose. Barberries are sometimes used to garnish the edjxe 
of dishes. 

PICKLED PEPPERS. 

Take two dozen large size garden peppers, (green;) slit them 
carefully on the side ; take out the pulp ; put on a tablespoon 
full of salt, and cover them with boiling water every morning 
for nine days; then fill them with cabbage cut fine, and a little 
salt. Sew them up, then lay them in vinegar. 

PLUMS, TO PICKLE LIKE OLIVES. 

Take the plums before they are quite ripe, and put them in- 
to a saucepan with some vinegar, salt water, fennel seed, and 

17 



258 PRACTICAL COOKEKV. 

dill, as much of* each as will impart a flavor to the pickle ; when 
it boils, put in the plums, let it boil again, then take it oft'; let it 
stand till cold, then put them into jars. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Seven pounds of plums, three pounds of sugar, one ounce of 
cinnamon, and one ounce of cloves. Place the plums in al- 
ternate layers with the sugar and spice, in a deep dish. Scald 
a quart of vinegar and pour it over them once a day for three 
days. Then put them into a kettle and let them come to a 
slow boil. When cold they will be ready for use. 

QUINCES, TO PICKLE. 

Pare and cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, and put 
them with a gallon of water and two pounds of honey into a 
large saucepan, mix them together well, and set them on a slow 
fire for half an hour; strain the liquor into a jar; when quite 
cold wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it ; cover 
them very close. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Take tomatoes when full ripe, and bake them in a jar till ten- 
der; strain them and rub them through a sieve. To every 
pound of juice, add a pint of vinegar, half an ounce of garlic, 
sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce 
of white pepper finely powdered ; boil the whole till every in- 
gredient is soft ; rub it again through the sieve ; to every pound 
add the juice of three lemons; boil it again to the consistence 
of cream ; when cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet 
oil on each, tie bladders over and keep in a dry place. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. 

Boil gently a gallon of the expressed juice of young green 
walnuts, skim it well, then put into it a pound of anchovies, 



PICKLES. 259 

bones, and liquor, one ounce of cloves, two or three dozen of 
shalots, one ounce of mace, one ounce of pepper, one ounce of 
garlic; let it all boil until the shalots sink; then place the 
liquor into a pan until cold ; then bottle it, dividing the spice 
equally in each bottle ; cork it close, and bladder over the 
corks. This is not fit for use in less than a twelvemonth. 



CHAPTER XXI. 
CAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 

REQUISITE INFORMATION FOR MAKING AND BAKING CAKES. 

Currants are so frequently used in cakes that you should be 
very particular in having them nicely washed, dried, and all 
sticks and stones taken from them, and then put before the 
fire to dry, as, if damp, they will make cakes and puddings 
heavy ; therefore, before you use them dust a little flour lightly 
over them. Raisins, if they are to be used whole, should be 
well scalded ; if to be chopped, throw a few at a time into hot 
water, then cut each one w r ith scissors, and take out the seeds. 

Eggs should be fresh and a long time beaten, the whites and 

CD o 

yolks separate, taking out the treadle. 

Sugar should be well pounded and sifted, and kept well 
dried. None but good sweet butter should be used for cake 
making. 

In making cakes, if you wish them to be pleasing to the eye, 
as well as the palate, use double refined white sugir, although 
clean brown sugar makes an equally good cake. 

Lemon peel should be either rubbed on sugar or grated fine ; 
if so, sprinkle some sifted sugar amongst it to keep it a good 
color. 

The lightness of cake depends upon its being well beaten and 
thoroughly mixed. 

If you use yeast to your cakes, they will require less butter 
ami eggs, and will cat almost equally as light and rich ; but if 
the leaven be only of milk, flour, and water, it becomes more 
tough than if the butter was at first put with the ingredients, 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 261 

and the dough set to rise by the fire. Yeast should be used 
sparingly, to avoid bitterness. 

The heat of your oven is of particular importance for baking 
cakes or pastry — more particularly large cakes ; as at first, if 
not pretty brisk, they will not rise ; then, if likely to brown 
too quick at the top, put a piece of paper upon the top of the 
cake so as not to touch the batter. It should be lighted some 
time before hand, so as to have a good solid body of heat, and 
should be of a proper heat at the bottom, in order that the 
cakes may rise. 

For baking plum, or other large cakes, have round tin pans 
with sides nearly perpendicular, line them with white paper 
buttered, and fill them two or three inches deep of the cake 
mixture, but not more. 

Saleratus must be powdered and dissolved in hot water be- 
fore being used. 

When the weather is cold, the materials for cake should be 
moderately warmed, before mixing them together. All kinds 
of cake that are made without yeast are better for being stirred, 
till just before the} 7 are baked. The butter and sugar should 
be stirred together till white, then the eggs, flour, and spice, 
added. Saleratus and cream should not be put in till just be- 
fore the cake is baked ; add the fruit last. Butter the cake 
pans well. The cake will be less liable to burn if the pans are 
lined with white buttered paper. 

An oven for bread-baking should be as hot as you can bear 
your hand in for twenty seconds, or whilst counting twenty. 

To ascertain whether a cake be done, thrust a knife into the 
center, and should this come out clean, draw it from the oven 
directly ; but should the paste adhere to it, continue the baking. 
Several sheets of paper are placed usually under large plum- 
cakes. 

To blanch almonds, put them into a saucepan with plenty of 
cold water and heat it slowly ; when it is just scalding, turn 



262 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

■ 

the almonds into a basin, peel, and throw them into cold water 
as they are done ; dry them well in a soft cloth before they 
are used. If the water be too hot, it will turn them yellow. 

Bread and tea-cakes made with milk are best when Daw, as 
they become stale sooner than others. 

Never keep your bread or cake in wooden boxes or drawers, 
but in tin boxes or earthen pans, with covers. 

When the quantities given will make more cake than is re- 
quired, the half of each ingredient may be used. 

Allow about fifteen minutes for each half inch in thickness of 
the cake in a quick oven. More time will be required in a 
slow oven. 

CRUST, SHOUT AND RICH, BUT NOT SWEET. 

To eifjht ounces of fine flour rub in well six ounces of butter ; 
make it into a stiffish paste with a little water ; beat it well, 
roll it thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST, SHORT. 

Take two ounces of white sugar, pound, sift, and dry it, mix 
it with a pound of well dried flour, and rub well into it three 
ounces of butter; put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, 
and then mix the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it out thin 
and bake it in a moderate oven. 

APPLE CAKE. 

Take one pound and a half of white sugar, two pounds of 
apples, pared and cut thin, and the rind of a large lemon ; put 
a pint of water to the sugar, and boil it to a syrup ; put the 
apples to it, and boil it quite thick. Put it into a mould to 
cool, and send it cold to table, with a custard, or cream poured 
round it. * 

ALMOND DROPS. 

Take half a pound of flour on your board, to which put four 
or five ounces of sweet almonds, and half that quantity of bit- 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 263 

ter almonds, blanched and pounded with a little white of egg, 
half a pound of sugar, four yolks of eggs and a little salt; work 
into paste; make it in small rolls, then cut it in bits the size 
of a small nutmeg ; make them in round balls ; lay them the 
distance of half an inch apart on sheets of paper, on baking tins, 
and put them in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

ALMOND, SMALL, CAKES. 

Take half a pound of blanched almonds, beat them to a paste 
with white of eggs ; add three quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar, and two ounces of cream ; take some very thin puff 
paste, cut into small squares, and put a portion of the above 
mixture on each ; moisten the edges, cover them with puff 
paste, prick and bake them in a hot oven ; when done, ice them 
with sugar. 

ALMOND ICING, FOR CAKES. 

Take equal parts of blanched sweet almonds and loaf sugar, 
pound them fine in a mortar, pass the whole through a mod- 
erately coarse wire sieve ; then mix the whole into a paste of 
moderate consistence with the yolks of eggs, and spread over 
the top of the cake after it is baked ; dry the almond icing be- 
fore the fire or in a very cool oven, and when it is cold, ice the 
cake with the sugar icing. 

BANBURY CAKES. 

Press in a little dough (with a pound of flour) two table- 
spoons full of thick yeast, and a gill of warm milk ; let it work 
a little, then add half a pound of currants, washed and picked, 
half a pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut small, and 
a quarter of an ounce each of nutmeg, ginger, and allspice ; mix 
the whole together with half a pound of honey, and put into 
puff paste cut in an oval shape ; cover and sift sugar over. Bake 
them fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 



2G4 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

BABA. 

Take three pounds of flour, one quarter of which set apart 
and mix into dough, with a gill of good yeast and a little 
warm water; cover it close in a pan and set it by the fire to 
rise ; when you see the dough rise and nearly ready, form the 
other parts of the flour in a circle on the table, in which put 
half an ounce of salt, once ounce of sugar, a half pound of but- 
ter and twelve eggs, and a tablespoon full of saffron ; mix the 
butter and eggs well together before you put it to the flour; 
when it is all mixed, spread it out and put the dough to it, and 
knead it well. When the yeast is nearly mixed in, add two 
pounds of raisins, stoned, a few at a time, have ready two cop- 
per moulds buttered, and put three parts full of dough and set 
in a warm place to rise very gently ; when raised to the top of 
the mould bake in a hot oven ; a brick oven is best. 

BRIDE CAKE. 

To four pounds of the best wheat flour add four pounds of 
fresh butter, two pounds of the best white sugar, pounded and 
sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same quan- 
tity of nutmegs ; to every pound of flour put eight egi^s ; wash 
and thoroughly pick four pounds of currants, dry them well, 
blanch a pound of sweet almonds and cut them lengthwise, 
very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, the 
same quantity of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy. 
Having thus prepared your ingredients, work the butter to a 
cream with your hands, beat in the sugar for ten minutes, then 
beat your whites of eggs to a yery strong froth ; mix them 
with your sugar and butter, beat the yolks well for about 
twenty minutes, and mix them with your cake. Now put in 
your flour, mace, and nutmeg, keep beating it until your oven 
is quite ready to receive it, pour in your brandy, whip the cur- 
rants and almonds lightly in, tie around the bottom of your 
hoop three sheets of paper, to keep 't from running out. rub 



CAKES, BISCUIT, BREAD, ETC. 265 

it well with butter, and put in your cake and the sweetmeats in 
three layers, with cake between every layer; alter it is risen 
and colored, cover it with paper, before your oven is closed; it 
will take three hours' baking. 

BRIDE CAKE ANOTHER. 

One pound and a half of fine sugar, three pounds and a half 
of currants, one pound of butter, two pounds of flour, half a 
pound of peels, half a pound of cut almonds, three ounces of 
spices, the grating of three lemons, eighteen eggs, two gills of 
brandy ; paper your hoop, which for this mixture you will re- 
quire to be large ; bake in a moderate oven — it will take some 
hours ; when cold, ice it. See " Icing for Cakes." 

BREAKFAST OR TEA CAKES HOT. 

Put about six hands full of flour in a basin, about half a 
pint of new milk, a small piece of butter; warm the milk, and 
mind, hotter in winter than in summer ; mix in a cup two 
ounces of German yeast with a little cold water, mix the yeast 
with the milk and butter, make a hole in the flour, pour the 
mixed milk and yeast into it, stirring it round until it is a thick 
batter ; beat up one egg and mix into it ; cover it over and keep 
it warm in your screen ; when it has risen a little mix it into a 
dough, knead it well, put it again in the screen, and when it 
has risen a good deal, take and form your rolls. They will 
take nearly half an hour, or according to the size you make the 
cakes ; rub them over while hot with yqur paste brush, dipped 
in milk. 

WHIGS FOR TEA, OR BREAKFAST. 

Warm a pint and a half of milk, one ounce of butter, three 
egg*, three tablespoons full of yeast, flour to make a batter, and 
let it rise two or three hours. Bake in rings fifteen minutes, 



266 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

DIET BREAD CAKE. 

Three quarters of a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound 
of flour, and eight eggs ; put your sugLir and eggs together in- 
to a basin or pan, with half a pint of lukewarm water; beat 
them all well up with a whisk, the same as for sponge cakes, 
over a slow fire until quite warm, take them from the fire and 
whip them until cold ; add the grating of one lemon, then mix 
in the flour lightly, adding some caraway seeds, if they are 
liked ; do not fill your mould ; they should be square paper ea- 
ses, buttered. 

BUTTER CAKES. 

Beat with your hands a dish of butter into a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried flour, and two do- 
zen eggs, leaving out half the whites ; then beat altogether for 
an hour. Previous to baking it, you may add some seeds and 
currants, an ounce of mace, a nutmeg, and a little brandy. 

BISCUITS OF ANY KIND OF FRUIT. 

To the pulp of any scalded fruit put the same weight of su- 
gar, beat them both well together for two hours, then make 
them into forms, or put them in paper cases, and dry them in 
a cool oven ; turn them the next day, and let them remain until 
quite dry, then put them in boxes. 

CHEESECAKES. 

Cut your paste and fill the pans ; have ready prepared this 
mixture: break three yolks of eggs and one white into a basin, 
a little powdered sugar, a grating of lemon, the juice of a lem- 
on, a few bread crumbs or crumbed stale pound cake, an ounce 
of clarified butter, and mix all well together ; add half a gill of 
cream; put a spoon full in each tartlet pan; you must press 
the paste the form of the pan. 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 267 

ANOTHER. 

Take one pint of new milk, let it boil, beat the yolks of six 
eggs, and the whites of two, and stir into the milk ; let it boil 
till it comes to a curd ; drain the curd till quite dry ; beat a 
half pound of blanched almonds in a mortar, with the curd ; 
beat the yolks of six eggs and stir in with half a pound of 
powdered white sugar, and quarter of a pound of melted butter. 
Season with rosewater, and bake in patty pans lined with paste. 

CHEESECAKES COMMON. 

Put a quart of milk on the fire; when it boils add eight eggs 
well beaten ; stir them till they become a curd, then pour it 
out, and when it is cold put in three-quarters of a pound 
of currants well washed, two spoons full of rose water, and 
a little salt; make a puff paste and put in the mixture. If 
you bake them in the patties, it will be necessary to but- 
ter the patties to enable you to turn them out ; but if you 
bake in glass or china, only an upper crust will be neces- 
sary, as you can send them to table without taking them out. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 

Biscuit. One pint of water, a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, three-quarters of a pound of flour. Have a clean kettle, 
and coal fire, without smoke. Put the water on to boil ; while 
boiling, put in the butter, and stir in the flour dry ; stir till 
free from lumps ; pour out to cool ; when thoroughly cool, 
break in, one at a time, ten eggs ; beat it hard. Butter some 
sheets, and drop the above mixture in small rounds ; bake in 
a hot oven, from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Custard. One quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of flour ; 
mix the flour with a little of the milk ; when the milk is boil- 
ing, stir in the flour ; let it boil hard about one minute. Beat 
four eggs well, and stir in while hot ; add a full half pound of 



268 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

sugar, some salt, and essence of lemon, or the oil of a fresh 
lemon, rubbed on sugar. 

When the biscuits are cold, make an incision in one side, 
and put the custard in with a spoon. They are best fresh, 
but not warm. 

COUNTRY CREAM CAKES. 

To a quart of flour add a teaspoon of fine salt, and a piece 
of butter of the size of an egg; then take half a pint of thick 
cream, the better if a little sour, half a teaspoon full of pearl- 
ash, dissolved in water, and poured into- the cream, and milk 
sufficient to wet the flour. If cream is abundant, it may be 
used without milk or pearlash. In this case, the cream may 
be sweet. When well kneaded, it is fit for baking. 

RICH CREAM CAKE. 

Three-fourths of a pound of white sugar, and half a pound 
of butter, stirred together till very white. Beat separately to 
a froth the whites and yolks of seven eggs, and add, also, a 
wine-glass of brandy, a grated nutmeg, and a pound and a half 
of sifted flour. Just before it is baked, add half a pint of rich 
cream, and a pound of seeded raisins. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of cream, five eggs, and one teaspoon full of saleratus. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the rest. 

CRUMPETS. 

Take three teacups of raised dough, and work into it, with 
the hand, half a teacup of melted butter, three eggs, and milk 
to render it a thick batter. Turn it into a buttered bake pan, 
and let it remain fifteen minutes; then put it on a bake pan, 
heated so as to scorch flour. It will bake in half an hour. 



\ 



BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 269 

CUP CAKE. 

Mix three teacups of sugar with one and a half of butter ; 
when white, beat three eggs, and stir them into the butter and 
sugar, together with three teacups of sifted flour, and rosewater 
or essence of lemon, to the taste. Dissolve a teaspoon full of 
saleratus in a teacup of milk; strain it into the cake; then 
add three more teacups of sifted flour. Bake the cake imme- 
diately, either in cups or pans. 

CREAM CUP CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of butter, half a cup of sour 
cream, three well beaten eggs, and a little saleratus, dissolved 
in hot water; beat these together for a long time; add nut- 
meg, grated, and half a teaspoon full of lemon extract or or- 
ange flower water; bake in a quick oven, in buttered tins, 
lined with paper. 

CORN CAKE. 

Take the whites of eight eggs, one-fourth of a pound each 
of corn starch, flour, and butter, half a pound of sugar, one 
teaspoon full of cream of tartar, half a teaspoon full of soda. 
Flavor with almond, or to suit the taste. 

CHEESECAKES. APPLE. 

Take twelve apples ; pare, core, and boil in sufficient water 
to mash them ; beat them very smooth ; add six yolks of eggs, 
the juice of two lemons, some grated lemon peel, half a pound 
of fresh butter, beaten to a cream, and sweetened with pow- 
dered sugar ; beat in with the apples ; bake in a puff crust, 
and serve open. 

CHEESECAKES, ALMOND. 

Take four ounces of blanched almonds, mixed with a few 
bitter ; beat them with a spoon full of water ; add four ounces 



270 PRACTICAL COOKERY" 

of powdered sugar, a spoon full of cream, and the whites of 
two eggs, well beaten ; mix them quickly ; put into small 
patty pans, and bake for twenty minutes, in a moderately 
warm oven. 

CHEESECAKES, CITRON. 

Take a pint of cream ; boil it, and when cold, mix it with 
two eggs, well beaten ; then boil them together, until they be- 
come a curd. Put in a few blanched almonds, beaten in a 
mortar, with a little orange flower water ; add some Naples 
biscuit and green citron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and 
bake in tins. 

CHEESECAKES, LEMON. 

Take four ounces of sifted lump sugar, and the same quan- 
tity of butter; melt them slowly ; add the yolks of two and 
the white of one egg, a Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds, 
the rind of three lemons, shred fine, and the juice of one lemon 
and a half, and three spoons full of brandy ; mix all well to- 
gether ; then make a paste with eight ounces of flour, and six 
ounces of butter, mixing four ounces of it with the flour first, 
then wet it with six spoons full of water, and roll in the re- 
mainder of the butter ; put the ingredients to this paste, and 
bake it. 

CHEESECAKES, ORANGE. 

Take eight ounces of blanched almonds ; beat them very 
fine, with orange flower water ; melt a pound of butter care- 
full v, without oiling (let it be nearly cold before using it for 
the cheesecakes ; ) beat, and sift half a pound of sugar; beat 
the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs ; pound one fresh 
and two candied oranges (previously boiled to draw out the 
bitterness) in a mortar till as soft as marmalade, without any 
lumps ; these mix all together, and put into patty pans. 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 271 

CHERRY CAKES. 

Take a pound of tart paste, cut it m half, roll it out thin ; 
drop on the paste preserved cherries, cut into small pieces ; 
egg them round carefully ; turn the paste over them, and press 
them together gently ; then cut it into half circles with a gig- 
ging iron ; prick, and wash them over with egg ; place them 
on a well buttered tin, and bake them in a quick oven. 

CINNAMON CAKES. 

Beat up six eggs, with three tablespoons full of rosewater ; 
put to it a pound of sifted sugar, a dessertspoon full of pow- 
dered cinnamon, and enough flour to form it into a paste ; roll 
it out thin, and cut it into any shape you please ; place them 
on paper, and bake them. Remove them from the paper 
when done. Keep them dry. 

CURRANT CAKES. 

Take two quarts of currants, red or white ; pick and wash 
them ; boil them in a pint of water ; then run the juice through 
a jelly bag, taking care not to press the bag ; boil up the juice, 
strewing in three pounds of sugar to a quart of juice; pour it 
into glasses ; dry it in a stone till it will turn out ; then dry 
the cakes on plates. 

CARAWAY CAKES. 

Mix a pound of flour with a pound of fresh butter ; add a 
spoon full of yeast, four spoons full of rosewater, the yolks of 
three eggs, four ounces of sugar, some caraways ; make it all 
into a paste ; bake it, and when done, sprinkle it with pow- 
dered sugar. 

CURD CAKES. 

Mix eight eggs (leaving out four whites) with a quart of 
curds ; add sugar, sufficient to sweeten, grated nutmeg, and a 



272 PRACTICAL COOKERT. 

tablespoon full of flour; mix well together; heat in a frying 
pan some butter, and drop in the curd, frying like fritters. 

COOKIES. 

Take half a pound of sugar, one-fourth of a pound of butter; 
stir them well together; dissolve a teaspoon full of saleratus 
in three-fourths of a teacup of sweet milk ; add half a nutmeg, 
grated, and flour sufficient to roll them out easily. Bake in a 
moderately heated oven. 

CRACKERS. 

Rub six ounces of butter with two pounds of flour ; dissolve 
a couple of teaspoons full of saleratus in a wine glass of milk, 
and strain it on the flour; add a teacup full of salt, and milk 
enough to enable you to roll it out. Beat it with a rolling-pin 
for half an hour, pounding it out thin ; cut it into cakes with a 
tumbler ; bake them about fifteen minutes, and then take them 
from the oven. When the rest of your things are baked suf- 
ficiently, take them out ; set in the crackers, and let them re- 
main till baked bard and crisp. 

BUTTER CRACKERS. , 

Rub four ounces of butter into a pound of flour ; when well 
mixed, put to it enough cold water to damp it and keep it to- 
gether, and add a teaspoon of salt; beat it with a rolling-pin 
until smooth; then roll it thin ; cut it in small cakes, or make 
it in small crackers between your hands; bake on tins, in a 
quick oven, for fifteen minutes, or set them in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes; let each cracker be about the size 
of a dollar piece, and nearly half an inch thick. 

DROP CAKES. 

Let a large teaspoon of saleratus be dissolved in a cup of 
cream, and this mixed with a quart of milk. Into this stir 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 273 

flour gently, till of the consistence of batter. Then dip your 
spoon in milk, and with it place your batter at short distances, 
in a buttered pan. Very delicate, made entirely of cream, 
either with or without e^s. 

DO 

ANOTHER. 

One pint of milk, one teaspoon full of saleratus, four eggs, 
a little salt, flour to make it a batter. Bake in a quick oven, 
and serve hot. 

RYE DROP CAKES. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, eight tablespoons full of flour, 
eight tablespoons full of rye flour. Bake in a quick oven, and 
serve hot. 

SODA DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart of flour, one and a half cups of milk, one teaspoon 
full of soda, two of cream of tartar — soda dissolved in the milk, 
cream of tartar rubbed ,dry into the flour — two eggs, sugar and 
cinnamon to your taste. Boil in hot fat. They are nice when 
fresh, but will not keep long. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cut up a pound of butter in three pounds of sifted flour. 
Add a pound of powdered sugar, a grated nutmeg, a teaspoon 
full of powdered cinnamon, and a tablespoon full of rosewater. 
Beat four eggs very light, and pour them into the mixture. 
Add half a teacup full of yeast, and stir in a pint and a half 
of milk by degrees, so as to make it a soft dough. Cover it, 
and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds with a jagging iron or 
sharp knife, and fry in lard. 

DOUGHNUTS, OR NUT-CAKES. 

Mix two cups of buttermilk and two of cream, with two or 
three eggs, one teaspoon full of saleratus, and plenty of fine 
L* 19 



274 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

cinnamon, and flour enough to roll ; cut into strips, and twist 
into cakes ; made in this way, they are more tender, and less 
liable to harden than when raised with yeast. Have your lard 
boiling hot, in an iron pot. Try it; if the fat is not hot enough, 
the cakes will absorb it — if too hot, it will make them a dark 
brown outside, before the inside is done. If over an open fire, 
keep the kettle in motion. 

DOUGHNUTS WITH SUGAR. 

Make a dough of one pound of flour, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar, rolled fine, 
one nutmeg, crated, one teaspoon full of ground cinnamon, 
one tablespoon full of brewer's yeast, and warm milk enough 
to mix. Set it in a warm place to rise, for one hour, or till 
light ; then form in twists or squares, fry as before, and drain 
on a sieve. 

CRULLERS. 

Cut up half a pound of butter into two pounds of sifted flour. 
Add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, a grated 
nutmeg, and a teaspoon full of powdered cinnamon, and mix 
them well together. Beat six eggs, and pour them into the 
mixture. Add a tablespoon full of roswater, and mix the 
whole into a dough. If the eggs and rosewater are not found 
sufficient to wet it, add a very little cold water. Mix the 
dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste board ; take the dough out 
of the pan and knead it very well. Cut it into small pieces, 
and knead each separately. Put all the pieces together, and 
knead the whole in one lump. Roll it out into a large square 
sheet, about half an inch thick. Take a jagging iron, or a sharp 
knife, run it along the sheet, and cut the dough into long, nar- 
row slips. Twist them up in various forms. Have ready an 
iron pan, with melted lard. Lay the crullers lightly in it, and 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 275 

fry them to a light brown, turning them with a knife and fork, 
so as not to break them, and taking care that both sides are 
equally done. 

Crullers may be made in a plainer way, with the best brown 
sugar, (rolled very fine,) and without spice or rosewater. 

They can be fried, or rather boiled, in a deep iron pot. 
They should be done in a large quantity of lard, and taken 
out with a skimmer that has holes in it, and held on the skim- 
mer till the lard drains from them. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Powder very finely and sift half a teacup full of double re- 
fined sugar, and two teaspoons full of Poland starch. Beat the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, so that you can turn the 
plate upside down, without the eggs falling from it; then stir 
in the sugar gradually ; stir it ten or fifteen minutes without 
any cessation ; then add a teaspoon full of lemon juice ; put in 
sufficient rosewater to flavor it. If you wish to color it pink, 
stir in a few grains of cochineal powder, or rose pink ; if to 
have it of a blue tinge, add a little of what is called the pow- 
der blue. Lay the frosting on the cake with a knife, soon af- 
ter it is taken from the oven ; smooth it over, and let it re- 
main in a cool place till hard. This will be sufficient to frost 
one large cake. 

FRUIT CAKE RICH. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, and ten eggs. First beat the yolks and sugar 
together, then add the flour and butter, beaten to a cream ; 
and lastly, mix in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
high froth. Stone and chop one or two pounds of raisins, (as 
you may choose,) two pounds of currants, well cleaned and 
dried, one of citron, a quarter of a pound of almonds, half an 
ounce of mace, a teaspoon full of rosewater, a wine-glass of 



276 PRACTICAL C00KERT. 

brandy, and one of wine ; stir in the flour gradually, then the 
wine, brandy, and spice. Add the fruit just before it is put 
into the pans. It takes over two hours to bake it if the loaves 
are thick ; if the loaves are thin, it will bake in less time. 
This kind of cake is the best after it has been made three or 
four weeks, and it will keep good five or six months. 



FRIED CAKES. 

One cup of sugar, one of cream, three eggs, cinnamon or 
nutmeg, a teaspoon full of saleratus. Cut as jumbles, or in 
strips ; twist, and fry in lard. 

FAMILY CAKE. 

To six ounces each of rice and wheat flour add half a pound 
of powdered sugar, nine eggs, and half an ounce of caraway 
seed ; beat for an hour, and bake the same time in a quick 
oven. 

GINGEE SNAPS. 

Half a pint of molasses, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, 
caraway seeds, and ground ginger, each a tablespoon full, ami 
a quarter of a pound butter; work the butter into a pound of 
flour, then altogether, and form it in cakes not larger than a 
dollar piece, on baking tins; bake in a moderate oven twenty 
minutes, when they will be dry and crisp. 

GINGER-NUTS. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of sugar, a tablespoon full 
of ginger, one cup of butter, half a cup of sour miik, two tea- 
spoons full of saleratus, dissolved in boiling water, and stirred 
in after the flour. Make it just stiff enough to roll very thin; 
cut in small cakes, and bake in a slow oven. 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 277 

GINGERBREAD. 

Mix together three and a half pounds of flour; three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, one pint of molasses, a quarter of a 
pound of ginger, and some ground orange peel. 

ANOTHER. 

Two pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, one pint of milk, 
one pint of molasses, one tablespoon full of saleratus, and gin- 
ger as you please. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

Three pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, twelve eggs, 
two teacups full of miik, two teaspoons full of saleratus, eight 
tablespoons full of ginger, and flour sufficient to roll. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Three eggs, three cups full of molasses, one cup full of but- 
ter, two teaspoons full of saleratus, dissolved in a cup full of 
warm water, one tablespoon full of ginger, and six cups full 
of flour. 

NICE GINGERBREAD. 

Two pounds of flour, one and a quarter pounds of sugar, 
two tablespoons full of ginger, eight eggs, and one pound of 
butter. Rub the butter and sugar together till they are white ; 
then break the eggs, and strain them in ; mix it well ; put in 
the ginger, and sift in the flour ; spread the cake thinly over 
tin pans or sheets. It will require a moderate heat ; bake it 
twenty minutes. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Take six teacups full of flour, one cup of butter, or lard ; 
work well together ; add three cups of molasses, one cup of 
sour milk, one tablespoon full of saleratus, and two tablespoons 
full of ginger. 



278 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

GINGERBREAD WITH FRUIT. 

Four cups of flour, one of butter, one of sugar, one of molas- 
ses, one of milk, four eggs, three teaspoons full of ginger, a tea- 
spoon full of cloves and nutmegs, half a pound of currants and 
raisins ; add the fruit last, and bake in pans, in an oven, not 
very quick. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Take two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, five eggs, well beaten, two ounces of powdered gin- 
ger, and a teaspoon full of pearlash. Then mix, and bake. 

GOOSEBERRY CAKE. 

Press the juice out of some gooseberries, and strain it 
through some muslin ; boil it up ; strew in a pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice; stir well, and simmer till the sugar is 
melted ; pour it into glasses ; dry it in a stove till it will turn 
out, and then dry the cakes on plates. 

HONEY CAKE. 

Three-quarters of a pound of honey, half a pound of tine loaf 
sugar, a quarter of citron, a half ounce of orange peel, cut small ; 
of cinnamon and ginger, each half an ounce, four well beaten 
eggs, and a pound of sifted flour. Melt the sugar with the 
honey, and mix. Roll out the cakes, and cut in any form. 

INDIAN BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Take one quart of buttermilk, or sour milk, three eggs, but- 
ter in size equal to half a hen's egg ; a little salt, one teaspoon 
full of saleratus, stirring in fine Indian flour till of a proper con- 
sistence ; and then putting it into pans of an inch in depth, for 
a quick bake. 



c \kes, biscuits, bread, etc. 270 

INDIAN LIGHT BISCUIT. 

A quart of Indian meal, a pint of sifted wheat flour, a very 
small teaspoon full of salt, three pints of milk, and four eggs. 
Sift the Indian and wheat meal into a pan, and add the salt. 
Mix them well. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs sepa- 
rately. The yolks must be beaten until very thick and smooth ; 
the whites to a thick froth that will stand alone of itself. Then 
stir the yolks gradually (a little at a time) into the milk. Add, 
by degrees, the meal. Lastly, stir in the beaten white of egg, 
and give the whole a long and hard stirring. Butter a suffi- 
cient number of cups, or small, deep tins ; nearly fill them 
with the batter. Set them immediately into a hot oven, and 
bake them fast. Turn them out of the cups. Send them 
warm to table ; pull them open, and eat them with butter. 

They will puff up finely, if at the last you stir in a level tea- 
spoun full of soda, melted in a little warm water. 

JUMBLES. 

Work together till of a light color a pound of sugar, and 
half a pound of butter ; then add eight eggs, beaten to a froth, 
essence of lemon, or rosewater, to the taste, and flour to make 
them sufficiently stiff to roll out. Roll them out in powdered 
sugar, half an inch thick ; cut it into strips half an inch wide 
and four inches long ; join the ends together, so as to form 
rings ; lay them on flat tins that have been buttered ; bake 
them in a quick oven. 

JOHNNY CAKES. 

Take a quart of sour milk, thick or otherwise, a teaspoon 
full of salt, sifted meal to make a stiff batter, a teaspoon heap- 
ing full of dissolved saleratus, with or without a spoon full of 
flour. Butter a pan, and bake nearly an hour. For tea, it is 
improved by adding half a teacup of molasses, a little allspice, 
and a spoon full of cream, or shortening. 



280 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

KISSES. 

Boat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; add the juice 
of a lemon, or a little rosewater. Roll and sift half a pound 
of the whitest loaf sugar, and beat it with the vgg. Spread 
out white paper on buttered tins, and drop a tablespoon full 
of this mixture on the paper. The oven should be moderately 
hot, and when the tops have become hard, remove them. 
Have a solution of gum Arabic, and dip the lower side of the 
cake, and join it to another. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Stir into two quarts of flour a pint of milk, slightly wanned, 
and a small teacup of yeast. Place it near the fire, where it 
will rise quickly. When perfectly light, work in with the 
hand four beaten eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, two of cinnamon, 
a wine-glass of brandy or wine. Stir a pound of sugar with 
three-quarters of a pound of butter; when white, work it into 
the cake ; add another quart of sifted flour, and beat the whole 
well with the hand ten or fifteen minutes; then set it where 
it will rise again. When of a spongy lightness, put it into 
buttered cake pans, and let them stand fifteen or twenty min- 
utes before baking. Add, if you like, a pound and a half of 
raisins, just before putting the cake into the pans. 

A LIGHT CAKE TO BAKE IX CUPS. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, rubbed into 
two pounds of flour, one glass of wine, or rosewater, two of 
yeast, one of nutmeg, and fruit, if you please. 

ONE, TWO, TIIKEE, FOUR CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, 
well beaten ; nutmeg, or essence of lemon, to season it. 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 281 



THIN POUND CAKE. 



Three cups of sugar, four eggs, one cup of butter, and flour 



enough to roll thin. Bake on tin sheets. 



BARNARD CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, four cups 
of flour, one of milk, four eggs, and a little soda. Flavor with 
fresh lemon, or extract of lemon. 

LEMON CAKE. 

To the whites of ten eggs add three spoons full of rose or 
orange flower water ; whisk them for an hour ; then put in a 
pound of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon ; mix 
them well, and add the yolks of ten egg=?, beaten smooth, and 
the juice of half a lemon; stir in three-quarters of a pound of 
flour ; put the mixture in a buttered pan, and bake it in a mod- 
erate oven for an hour. 

MACAROONS. 

Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and dry them well; then 
pound them fine in a mortar ; add the whites of three eggs ; 
then one pound of sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix it 
well together for ten minutes; take it all out of the mortar; 
have ready your baking boards or sheets, covered with wafer 
paper." For Italian macaroons, you will form them round, 
with the slices of almonds upon the top of each ; if for En- 
glish, oval, and sift sugar upon the top of them ; bake them 
in a moderate oven. 

MACAROONS, SPICED. 

Take a pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of sifted 
sugar ; prepare the paste in the usual way ; add a spoon full 
of powdered cinnamon, six pounded cloves, a spoon full of 
preserved lemon, the same of orange peel, chopped small, 



282 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

and the rind of two lemons, grated ; mix all together in a 
mortar; lay out the macaroons as before directed, and bake 
them carefully. 

NEW YEAR'S COOKIES. 

Take one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter ; stir them to a cream ; then add three beaten eggs, a gra- 
ted nutmeg, two tablespoons full of caraway seed, and a pint 
of flour. Dissolve a teaspoon full of saleratus in a teacup of 
milk ; strain, and mix i^with half a teacup of cider, and stir it 
into the cookies ; then add flour to make them sufficiently 
stiff to roll out. Bake them as soon as cut into cakes, in a 
quick oven, to a light brown. 

POUND CAKE. 

Take a pound of" sifted sugar, and a pound of fresh butter ; 
mix them with the hand ten minutes, and put to them nine 
yolks and five whites of eggs, well beaten ; work all together, 
and add a pound of sifted flour, some caraway seeds, four 
ounces of candied orange peel, cut into slices, a few currants, 
well cleaned ; mix all together very lightly. 

POUND CAKES j PLUM OR PLAIN. 

Equal quantities of sugar, butter, flour, and eggs, allowing 
to all cakes eight to a pound, a grating of lemon, and a few 
grains of grated nutmeg ; have a basin made pretty warm ; 
put in your butter, and with your hand whip it up until it 
comes to the thickness of cream; then put in your sugar, lem- 
on, and nutmeg ; keep whipping it ; have your eggs beat up ; 
then add them by degrees to your sugar and butter ; take care 
that it does not curdle; whip in your flour; from this mix- 
ture you can make several sorts of small cakes, with a little 
variation in each mixture. For queen cakes, some currants, 
and a spoon full more flour; for champaignes, a few caraway 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 283 

seeds, and two spoons full of flour ; for queen's drops, the 
same, but add currants ; have different basins for each mix- 
ture ; in the same way you may add whatever flavor you 
like, and make them what shape you like ; champaignes are 
like a quarter of an orange, made in a long frame; queen 
cakes, in moulds, buttered ; drops, on buttered paper ; pound 
cakes, in hoops, prepared; a moderate oven will bake them. 

A GOOD PLUM CAKE. 

An equal weight of butter and flour, a quarter of a pound 
of cut peels and citron, double the weight of butter in currants, 
the grating of three lemons, and half a nutmeg, half an ounce 
of pudding spice, one glass of brandy, and the same quantity 
of eggs as the weight in butter; beat your butter as for pound 
cake ; put in a few chopped sweet almonds. Paper and but- 
ter a hoop, bottom and sides ; then put in your mixture ; bake 
in a slow oven for some time; try it, if done, as you did the 
Savoy cake ; take off the hoop when done, but not the paper. 

CIDER CAKE. 

One cup full of sugar, one cup full of butter; mix them to- 
gether, and break in two or three eggs ; then add one cup full 
of flour, one nutmeg, and one teaspoon full of saleratus ; put 
into it one cup full of cider, or pour the cider, foaming, over 
it ; then add two cups full of flour ; mix the whole well to- 
gether, and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 

RICH PLUM CAKE. 

Mix two quarts of flour with a pound of sifted loaf sugar, 
three pounds of currants, half a pound of raisins, stoned and 
chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves ; a grated 
nutmeg, the peel of a lemon, cut fine ; melt two pounds of 
butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, the whites 
and yolk? of twelve eggs, beaten apart, and half a pint of good 



284 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

yeast Beat them together a full hour. Put in plenty of cit- 
ron and lemon. Then butter your hoop, or pans, and bake. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, three of rai- 
sins, three of currants, half a pound of citron, one ounce of nut- 
meg, one ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, ten eggs, one 
wine-glass of wine, one of brandy, a teacup of molasses. Bake 
in two loaves, from two to three hours. 

queen's cake. 
To one pound of powdered white sugar, ten eggs, well 
beaten, and a pound and a quarter of flour, add one pound of 
butter, beaten to a cream. Flavor with a little rosewatcr, or 
to suit the taste; beat all together, and add half a pound of 
shelled almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste ; butter round 
tin basins, line them with white paper, put in the mixture an 
inch and a half deep, and bake one hour in a quick oven. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

Take one cup of flour, one cup of sugar, and mix ; add three 
eggs, one teaspoon full of cream tartar, and half a teaspoon of 
soda ; bake quick, but don't burn. 

RICE PUFFS. 

To a pint of rice flour put boiling water or milk sufficient 
to make a thick batter. Beat four egg-*, (when it is cool,) aud 
put in, together with a teaspoon full of salt. Drop this mix- 
ture by the large spoon full into hot fat. 

RASPBERRY CAKES. 

Take some raspberries not quite ripe; pick, and place them 
in a stove to dry; then beat them in a mortar. Take a pound 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 285 

and a quarter of fine sugar; clarify, and boil it to a syrup; 
put half a pound of the dried raspberries into the syrup, with 
half a spoon full of the white of egg, beaten in cream ; stir it 
carefully ; just boil it, and pour it into moulds, or paper cases. 

ROUT CAKES. 

Take the same quantity of ground almonds as fine, sifted 
sugar, a few grains of nutmeg, a little grated lemon peel ; dry 
it well up into a stiffish paste; work it well ; if too stiff it will 
crack ; then add a trifle more yolk of ege, and form into cakes 
to suit the fancy ; no cutters are used ; they must be made a 
clay or two ; after they are formed, let them stand on sugared 
paper, upon your baking sheet; bake them in a quick oven ; 
a few minutes will do. 

RICE CAKE. 

Mix six ounces of ground rice, the same quantity of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar, sifted, nine eggs, (the 
yolks and whites beaten separately,) grate in the rind of a 
lemon, and beat it well half an hour ; then bake. 

RICE POUND CAKE. 

Four ounces of flour, eight ounces of butter, six eggs, twelve 
ounces of sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, the peel of a lem- 
on, if you like, which improves it; or thirty drops of essence 
of lemon. Bake as for other pound cakes, till done. 

SAVOY CAKE. 

Keep your cake moulds for the use of cakes only ; clarify- 
some butter, and when nearlv cold, with a stiff brush grease 
your mould very smooth the same way ; be sure you do not 
omit any part. When you have with great care buttered it, 
put into the mould a hand full of fine, sifted sugar ; shake it 



280 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

well about the mould ; then knock all that does not stick to 
the mould out on paper; if it should be a mould that will not 
stand, set it in some sand on vour baking sheet ; then £et 
ready the things for your cake. For a high, large Savoy cake, 
break twelve eggs in a large basin; weigh out the weight in 
sifted sugar of nine eggs, and flour dried and sifted the weight 
of six eggs ; put to the sugar the grating of three lemons ; 
then whip with your whisk over a slow fire the twelve eg^, 
for about a quarter of an hour ; take it off the fire ; put in 
your sugar and lemon peel ; continue whipping it fast until 
cold, about a quarter of an hour longer ; then gently mix in 
your flour ; when well stirred in, three parts will (ill your 
mould ; put it directly into a moderate oven ; you will know 
when it is done, by thrusting your knife or a clean skewer 
down the middle, and if it comes out clean, it is done. If you 
have any left, butter some sponge biscuit moulds, and fill them 
with it, sifting, when full, some sugar over the top, not too 
thick; turn them gently over, and they will drop out when 
done. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, ten eggs. Beat 
the whites and yolks separately, and mix the latter with the 
sugar, which has previously been flavored with lemon, or any 
thin<r else to suit the taste. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
and mix them and the flour alternately with the sugar and 
yolks. Bake in a quick oven. 

A SMALL SPONGE CAKE VERY GOOD. 

Five full-sized eggs, the weight of four in sugar, and of near- 
ly three in flour, will make an exceedingly good cake; it may 
be flavored with lemon rind, or with bitter almonds, vanilla, or 
conlected orange blossoms reduced to powder. An hour will 
bake it thoroughly. All the ingredients for sponge cakes should 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 287 

be of good quality, and the sugar and flour should be dry ; 
they should also be passed through a fine sieve kept expressly 
for such purposes. The excellence of the whole depends much 
on the manner in which the eggs are whisked ; this should be 
done as lightly as possible ; but it is a mistake to suppose that 
they cannot be too long beaten, as after they are brought to a 
state of perfect firmness they are injured by a continuation of 
the whisking, and will at times curdle, or render a cake heavy 
from this cause. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, finely ground ; half a pound of sifted 
flour ; eight eggs ; one teaspoon full of salt : one tablespoon 
full of rose brandy, or a teaspoon full of lemon extract. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs, flour and sugar together, until it is smooth 
and light ; beat the whites of the eggs to a high froth ; then 

O " Do D ' 

beat altogether, until well mixed ; a bit of volatile salts, the 
size of a small nutmeg, dissolved in a little hot water, may be 
added to it. Butter a square tin pan, line it with paper, and put 
in the mixture more than an inch deep ; bake in a moderate 
oven. 

RICE SPONGE CAKE. 

Nine eggs, and the w r eight of them in sugar ; the weight of six 
in rice flour ; have the sugar finely sifted ; mix the sugar and 
rice together ; have the whites and the yolks beat separately ; 
pour the eggs at the same time into the rice and sugar ; beat 
the whole together about a quarter of an hour, and then add of 
the essence of lemon twenty drops, or rose water. Bake in 
this as above. 

SUGAR DROPS. 

Stir to a cream three ounces of butter, six of powdered white 
sugar ; then add three beaten eggs, half a pound of sifted flour, 
half of a nutmeg. Drop this mixture by the large spoon full 



288 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

on to buttered plates, several inches apart, sprinkle small su- 
gar plums on the top, and bake them directly. 

SUGAR CAKES. 

Take half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, two ounc- 
es of flour, two eggs, but the white of one only, a little beaten 
mace, and a little brandy. Mix all together into a paste with 
your hands; make it into little cakes, and bake them on tins. 
You may put in six ounces of currants, if you like. 

SEED CAKES. 

Take one pound of flour; twelve ounces of lump sugar, 
pounded fine ; seven eggs well beaten with the sugar ; one ounce 
of caraway seeds dried and pounded; and two' large table- 
spoons of sour cream with a teaspoon full of pearlash. Bake 
an hour, if in one large cake ; but if in tins or small ones, fif- 
teen minutes. 

SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

One pound of flour ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; 
three of butter ; four eggs ; beat till very light ; bake moder- 
ately. 

SOFT CAKE IN LITTLE TANS. 

One cup and a half of sugar ; the same of butter ; eight eggs ; 
and half a nutmeg ; or without if preferred. 

SODA CAKE. 

To one cup of sugar, add butter the size of an egg and one 
egs;; mix well together; then add twb spoons full cream tar- 
tar, one of soda, one cup of sweet milk ; season with lemon, or 
to suit the taste ; work in one pint of flour, and bake to a 

nice brown. 

SPICE CAKES. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, three-quarters of a pound of su- 
gar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, one tablespoon full of 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 289 

ground spices, one teaspoon full of salt, and two tablespoons 
full of yeast ; mix it to a nice dough with warm milk, cover it, 
and set it in a warm place for three hours ; then roll it thin ; 
cut it in small cakes, and bake ten or twelve minutes in a quick 
oven. These may be fried as doughnuts. 

TWELFTH CAKE. 

In the center of six pounds of flour make an opening ; set a 
sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, and a little warm milk ; 
put round it a pound of fresh butter in small lumps, a pound 
and a quarter of sifted sugar, four pounds and a half of currants, 
half an ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pound- 
ed cloves, mace, and nutmeg mixed, and sliced candied orange 
and lemon peel, and citron ; when risen, mix all together with 
a little warm milk, prepare the hoops as in a bride cake, fill 
and bake ; when nearly cold, ice them over with sugar. 

TEA CAKES. 

Melt one ounce and a half of butter in a little new milk ; add 
a spoon full of yeast, and a little salt, mix it into a pound of 
flour, add an egg, and a spoon full of sugar. Knead it well 
until it leaves the hands ; let it rise two or three hours ; roll 
out, and stand an hour or less before the fire to rise, before 
baking in a moderate oven. 

TEA CAKES. 

Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour j 
add a quarter of a pound of fine loaf sugar, a few caraway 
seeds, and two eggs. With a little warm milk let the whole 
be made in a paste, which, being covered with a cloth, is to 
stand before the fire nearly an hour. Then roll out the paste, 
cut it into round cakes with the top of a glass, and bake them 
upon floured tins. 

M " 19 



290 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

CREAM TEA CAKES. 

Two pounds of flour, a teacup of butter, half pint of sour 
cream, half a teaspoon full of saleratns, and a little salt. Mix 
well. If necessary, add more cream. Make into small round 
cakes and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. When done, opeE 
one side and insert a piece of butter, or serve otherwise, hot. 

PLAIN TEA CAKES. 

A teacup and a half of sugar, half a teacup of butter, a little 
flour, and half a nutmeg. Dissolve a teaspoon full of saleratus 
in a teacup of milk, strain and mix it with the cake ; add flour 
till stiff enough to roll out ; roll it out half an inch thick, cut 
it into cakes, bake them on flat, buttered tins, in a quick oven. 
If baked slow, they will not be good. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Beat six eggs very light ; add one pound of butter ; a pound 
of sugar ; a pint of rich milk or cream a little sour ; a glass 
of wine ; a powdered nutmeg ; a spoon full of cinnamon ; and 
lastly, a small teaspoon full of saleratus. Rake in tins or small 
pans in a brisk oven, and if wrapped in a thick cloth, it will 
keep soft a week. 

MDEFLNS. 

To one quart of lukewarm milk, put a piece of butter, the 
size of an egg ; let it melt, then add flour enough to make a 
thick batter ; one tablespoon full of brewer's yeast ; let it rise 
until morning, then put in five eggs well beaten, and bake in 
rings. 

HARD WAFFL!>. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, half 

a pound of butter, one glass of wine, one glass of rosewater, 

five eggs, mace and nutmeg. Butter your waffle irons, drop 

the cake in with a spoon, and shut quickly ; bake on both sides, 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 291 

pare the edges before opening the irons, and roll them while 
hot on a fork ; they will cool crisp. 

WAFERT. 

Take fine flour dried and sifted, make it into a smooth, thin 
batter with very good milk or a little cream and water; ad J 
about as much white wine as will make it thick enough for pan- 
cakes ; sweeten it with a little loaf sugar. When thus pre- 
pared, have the wafer irons made ready, by being heated over 
a charcoal fire, rub the irons with a piece of linen cloth dipped 
in butter, then pour a spoon full of the batter upon them and 
close them almost immediately ; turn them upon the fire ; pare 
the edges with a knife, as some of the batter will ooze out. A 
short time will bake them. When the irons are properly 
heated the wafers must be curled round while warm. 

BATAFIAS. 

Blanch half a pound of bitter almonds and half a pound of 
sweet ; take ofF the skins the day before, pound them together 
very fine, add two pounds of very fine sugar to them, and about 
eight whites of eggs, beat it well for a quarter of an hour in 
your mortar, take it out and squeeze it through a bladder and 
a pipe ; squeeze them the size of a six-pence upon kitchen pa- 
per ; bake them in a moderate oven, a light brown color ; let 
them get cold before you take them off the paper. 

BUNS. 

Three pounds of flour, half a pound of butter put into the 
warm milk, half a pound of moist sugar made fine, two ounces 
of yeast dissolved in a cup of cold water ; add to it a pint and 
a half of new milk and the butter made warm ; make a hole in 
your flour, which should be in a pan, and then pour in the milk, 
butter, and yeast ; keep it in until of a thick batter, cover it over 
and stand it where warm ; do not let it work too much ; then 



292 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

mix it into a dough quite smooth, stand it again where warm, 
and when it has risen work up and form your buns. Grease 
your baking sheets, then put them where warm to prove ; you 
must be sure to have the oven ready for them ; when baked have 
ready a little milk and sugar, mixed, which you will brush quick- 
ly over the buns. 

BATH BUN'S. 

Rub with the hand one pound of fine flour and half a pound 
of butter ; beat six eggs and add them to the flour with a table- 
spoon full of good yeast ; mix them together with half a tea- 
cup full of milk ; set it on a warm place for an hour ; mix in 
six ounces of sifted sugar, and a few caraway seeds, mould them 
into buns with a tablespoon on a baking plate, throw six or 
eight caraway comfits on each, and bake them in a hot oven 
about ten minutes. These quantities should make eighteen 
buns. 

BUNS, COMMON. 

Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, a little 
salt, four ounces of sugar, a dessertspoon full of caraways, and 
a teaspoon full of ginger ; put some warm' milk or cream to 
four tablespoons full of yeast, mix all together into a paste, 
but not too stiff, cover it over and set it before the fire an hour 
to rise, then make it into buns; put them on a tin, set them 
before the fire for a quarter of an hour, cover over with flannel, 
then brush them with very w T arm milk, and bake them of a 
nice brown in a moderate oven. 

BUNS, PLUM. 

Take two pounds of plain bun paste, add half a pound of 
currants, a quarter of a pound of candied orange peel cut into 
small pieces, half a nutmeg grated, and half an ounce of mixed 
spice. Form them into buns, dent them round the edges with 
n knife, and proceed as above. 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 293 

SEED BUNS. 

Mix one ounce of caraway seeds in two pounds of plain bun 
dough; form it into buns; butter the insides of tart-pans, and 
put one into each pan, place them near the fire to rise, and when 
this is done ice them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth ; 
sprinkle powdered sugar over that, dissolving it with water 
splashed from a brush. Bake it ten minutes. 

BUSK. 

Seven pounds of flour, seven eggs, three pints of milk, two 

and a half pounds of sugar, one and a half pounds of butter, one 

pint of yeast, nutmeg or cinnamon ; rub the flour, sugar, and 

butter together, then add the rest, and put it to rise over night. 

ANOTHER BUSK. 

Five pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of sugar, one 
pound of butter, five eggs, one pint of yeast, one ounce of spice, 
one quart of new milk ; mix the flour, milk and yeast together 
over night ; add the rest in the morning and let it rise again ; 
put it in the pans, and set it to the fire till the oven is ready, 
gloss the tops with whites of eggs and milk. 

BREAD, BISCUIT, YEAST, ETC. 
WHEAT BREAD. 

For four common sized loaves of bread, mix two pints of 
boiling water, and four quarts of flour. When thoroughly mixed, 
add two pints of cold water. Stir till the whole of the dough 
is of the same temperature. When lukewarm, stir in a cup 
of family yeast, (if brewer's yeast, a less quantity,) two or three 
teaspoons full of salt, knead in flour till stiff enough to mould 
up, and free from lumps. The more the bread is kneaded, the 
better it will be. Cover it over with a thick cloth, and if the 
weather is cold, set it near a fire. To ascertain when it has 
risen, cut it through the middle with a knife ; if full of small 



294 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

holes like a sponge, it is sufficiently light for baking. Bake as 
soon as light. If your bread should get sour before you are 
ready to bake it, dissolve one or more teaspoons full of salera- 
tus (according to the acidity of it) in half a teacup of milk or 
water, strain it on to the dough ; work it in well ; then cut off 
enough for a loaf of bread ; mould it up well ; slash it on both 
sides, to prevent its cracking when baked ; put it in a buttered 
tin pan. The bread should stand a few minutes in the pans be- 
fore baking it ; let it stand in the oven an hour to an hour and 
a half, if a brick oven. When the wheat is grown, it makes 
better bread to wet the flour entirely with boiling water. It 
should remain till cool before working in the yeast. 

Some cooks have an idea that it kills the life of the flour to 
scald it, but it is a mistaken idea — it is sweeter for it, and will 
keep good much longer. Bread made in this way is nearly 
as good as that which is wet with milk. Care must be 
taken not to put the yeast in when the dough is hot, as it will 
scald it, and prevents it rising. Most brick ovens require 
heating an hour and a half for bread. A brisk fire should be 
kept up, and the doors of the room should be kept shut, if the 
weather is cold. To ascertain if your oven is of the right 
temperature, when cleaned, throw in a little flour; if it browns 
in the course of a minute, it is sufficiently hot; if it turns black 
directly, wait several minutes before putting in the things that 
are to be baked. If the oven does not bake well, set in a 
furnace of live coals. 

EXCELLENT BliEAD. 

Two quarts of boiled milk ; when lukewarm, add a piece 
of butter the size of half an egg, some salt and an egg. Stir 
in flour enough to make a stiff batter, then a gill of good yeast; 
(if your yeast is not lively, stir in a little saleratus.) add flour 
gradually, till it is a stiff dough. Knead it a great deal, and 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 295 

set it to rise. When well raised, work it over, and let it rise 
again, then bake immediately. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

A person once accustomed to this bread will never wil- 
lingly live without it. To make it, take one quart of rye 
meal, two quarts of Indian meal — if not fresh, scald it — half a 
teacup full of molasses, two teaspoons full of salt, one teaspoon 
full of saleratus, one teacup full of home brewed yeast, or half 
the quantity of distillery yeast ; make it as stiff as can be 
stirred with a spoon, with warm water, and let it rise from 
night till morning. Then put it into a large, deep pan, smooth 
the top with the hand, dipped in cold water, let it stand a few 
minutes, and then bake it in an oven five or six hours. If put 
in late in the day, it may remain in the oven over night. 

PREMIUM BREAD. 

The Rhode Island Society for the promotion of Industry, 
gave the first premium on domestic bread to Mrs. Hiram Hill, 
of Providence. The following is Mrs. Hill's recipe for making 
the bread exhibited by her : For two loaves of the ordinary 
size, take two potatoes, pare them, slice very thin, and boil 
quick until quite soft ; then mash it to a fiue pulp, and add, 
little by little, two quarts of boiling water, stirring until a 
starch is formed ; let this cool, and then add one-third of a cup 
of yeast. This forms the " sponge," which should remain in a 
moderately warm place for ten or twelve hours, or over night, 
until it becomes very light and frothy ; even if a little sour, it 
is of no consequence. When the " sponge " is ready, add 
flour, and work it in until you have formed a stiff, firm mass. 
The longer and more firmly this is kneaded, the better the 
bread. Let the kneaded mass remain say from half to three- 
quarters of an hour to rise, then divide into pans, where it 
should remain, say fifteen minutes ; care being taken that it 



296 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

does not rise too much and crack: then put the loaves into a 
quick oven, and bake, say three-quarters of an hour. If the 
oven is not hot enough, the bread will rise and crack ; if too 
hot, the surface will harden too rapidly, and confine the loaf." 1 

BROWN GRAHAM BREAD. 

One quart superfine flour, one quart unbolted flour, and one 
pint Indian meal, sifted and scalded. Add a little molasses, if 
preferred. Mix as wheat, using yeast, salt, &c. Bake when 
light. 

RICH CORN BREAD. 

Take one egg, well beaten; half a pint of thick cream; In- 
dian meal sufficient to form a thick batter ; a small quantity 
of salt ; add half a teaspoon full of saleratus dissolved in a 
small quantity of water ; after mixing thoroughly, put it into 
the pans or oven, and bake immediately. 

BOSTON RYE-AND-INDIAN BREAD. 

One quart of Indian meal, three pints of rye meal, one 
teacup of molasses, one of yeast. Salt ; mix all well with 
warm water ; smooth it over the top by dipping the hand in 
water. Let it stand to rise ; when it cracks, it is ready to 
bake. Iron pans are the best to bake it in. It requires a great 
deal of baking ; about four hours for a loaf of this size. 

SAGO BREAD. 

With two pounds of sago, well soaked in water or milk 
some hours, mix the same quantity of wheat flour. If pre- 
ferred, a little Indian meal, also. Saleratus and yeast to be 
used as with other kinds of bread. When well raised, it should 
have a good, quick bake. It is delicious, healthy and cheap. 
For invalids it is particularly good. 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 297 

DIET BREAD, WHICH KEEPS MOIST. 

Three quarters of a pound of lump sugar, dissolved in a 
quarter of a pint of water ; half a pound of the best flour, 
seven eggs, taking away the whites of two ; mix the liquid su- 
gar when it has boiled, with the eggs ; beat them up together 
m a basin with a whisk ; then add, by degrees, the flour, beat- 
ing all together for about ten minutes ; put it into a quick oven. 
An hour bakes it. 

Tin moulds are the best ; the dimensions for this quantity 
are six inches in length and four in depth. 

POTATO BREAD. 

Boil a quantity of potatoes ; drain them well, strew over 
them a small quantity of salt, and let them remain in the ves- 
sel in which they were boiled, closely covered, for an hour, 
which makes them mealy ; then peel and pound them as smooth 
as flour. Add four pounds of potatoes to six of wheat flour, 
and make it into dough with yeast, in the way that bread is 
generally made. Let it stand three hours, to rise. 

RICE BREAD. 

Boil half a pound of rice in three pints of water, till the 
whole becomes thick and pulpy. With this, and yeast, and 
six pounds of flour, make your dough. In this way, it is said, 
as much bread will be made, as if eight pounds of flour, with- 
out the rice, had been used. 

RYE BREAD. 

Take two quarts of wheat flour, two pounds of rye flour, a 
little salt, a fourth of a pint of good yeast, and as much warm 
water as will make it into stiff dough. Let it stand three 
hours to rise before you put it into the oven. A large loaf 
will take three hours to bake. 

M* 



298 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

. BUTTERED LOAVES. 

Take three quarts of new milk ; put in as much rennet as 
will turn it ; whey the curds very clean ; break them small 
with your hands ; put in nine yolks of eggs and one white ; a 
hand full of grated bread, half a hand full of flour, and a little 
salt. Mix these together, working it well with your hands; 
roll it into small loaves, and bake them in a quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour. Then take half a pound of butter, four 
spoons full of clear water, half a nutmeg sliced very thin, and 
a little sugar. Set it on a quick fire, stirring it quickly, and let 
it boil till thick. When the loaves are baked, cut out the top 
and stir up the crumb with a knife ; then pour some of the but- 
ter into each of them, and cover them up again. Strew a lit- 
tle sugar on them ; before you set them in the oven, beat the 
yolk of an egg and a little beer together, and with a feather 
smear them over with it. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

To two quarts of the best flour, put three eggs, leaving out 
one white ; a little salt, a half pint of good yeast, and as much 
new milk, a little warmed, as will make it a thin, light paste. 
Stir it about with your hand, or with a large wooden spoon, 
but by no means knead it. Set it in a pan before the fire for 
about an hour, or till it rises ; then make it up into little rolls, 
and bake it in a quick oven. 

BUTTER BISCUITS. 

Half a pound of butter, two pounds of flour sifted, half a 
pint of milk, or cold water, a teaspoon full of salt ; cut up the 
butter in the flour, and put the salt to it ; wet it to a stiff dough 
with the milk and water ; mix it well with a knife, throw some 
flour on the paste-board, take the dough out of the pan, and 
knead it very well. Roll it out into a large, thick sheet, and 
beat it very hard on both sides with the rolling-pin ; beat it a 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 299 

long time, cut it out with a tin or cup into small, round, thick 
cakes. Beat each cake on both sides with a rolling pin, prick 
them with a fork, put them in buttered pans, and bake them 
of a light brown in a slow oven. 

SODA BISCUITS. 

Take one quart of flour, two teaspoons full cream of tar- 
tar, one teaspoon full of salt, one of saleratus or soda, and a 
small piece of butter for shortening. Mix with water or milk. 

ANOTHER. 

One pound of flour, two teaspoons full of cream of tartar, 
one teaspoon full of soda. Put the cream of tartar into the 
flour dry ; dissolve the soda in a little milk ; wet the whole 
with milk, making it sufficiently stiff to mould into biscuits. 

POTATO BISCUITS, 

Boil mealy potatoes very soft, peel and mash them. To 
four good sized potatoes, put a piece of butter of the size of a 
hen's egg, a teaspoon full of salt. When the butter has melted, 
put in half a pint of cold milk. If the milk cools the pota- 
toes, put in a quarter of a pint of yeast, and flour to make 
them of Hie right consistency to mould up. Set them in a 
warm place — when risen, mould them up with the hand — let 
them remain ten or fifteen minutes before baking them. 

BAKER'S ROLLS. 

Two pounds of wheat flour, a large tablespoon full of yeast, 
a teaspoon full of salt, and a bit of saleratus the size of half a 
small nutmeg, dissolved in a tablespoon full of hot water; 
make it into a soft dough with warm milk, work it or knead 
until it is smooth and shining, then cover it and set it in a. 
warm place for two hours. Work it smooth again — let it rise 
a g a j n — then work it down and divide it in pieces twice the size 



300 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

of a hen's egg ; roll it between your hands to the length of a 
finger ; lay them so as to touch each other on baking tins ; dip 
your hand in milk and pass it lightly over the tops of the 
rolls, and set them in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, until they are baked, and the tops a delicate brown — 
break open one to know if they are done. Serve for break- 
fast; to be broken open — cutting light hot cakes soddens them. 

TEA RUSK. 

A pint of warm milk, a little baker's yeast, salt, and half 
a teaspoon full of saleratus ; put to it enough wheat flour to 
make a soft dough ; mix it well and smooth ; cover it, and set 
it in a warm place ; when light, add half a teacup of sugar 
and a cup of melted butter ; work them well into the dough ; 
flour your hands well, and make it in small cakes ; lay them 
close together in a buttered pan ; dip a feather in a little sweet- 
ened milk, and pass it lightly over the tops of the rusks ; set 
them in a quick oven for half an hour ; serve hot. 

SALLY LLNN. 

Take two and a half pounds of flour, five eggs, three-quar- 
ters of a pound butter, melted without oiling ; one and a half 
pints milk mixed with the melted butter ; a little mace, a ta- 
blespoon full of rosewater, and one gill of yeast. The Sally 
Lunn should be put into the moulds or pans when it has been 
made about an hour, and left to rise. Bake as a pound cake ; 
serve hot with tea. 

YEAST. 

Boil well a hand full of hops in a couple of quarts of water. 
Strain the liquor, and put it back on the fire ; with a little of 
the liquor, mix smoothly three heaping tablespoons full of 
wheat flour, and stir it into the liquor when it boils. Let it 
lloil five or six minutes. When lukewarm, stir in a teacup of 
yeast, and keep it in a warm place till risen. When of a 



\ 

CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 301 

frothy appearance, it is sufficiently light. Add a tablespoon 
full of salt ; turn it into a jar, and cover it tightly. When- 
ever your yeast gets sour, the jar should be thoroughly cleaned 
before fresh is put in. Yeast made in this manner will keep 
good a fortnight in warm weather ; in cold weather longer. 
If your yeast appears to be a little changed, add a little salera- 
tus to it before you mix it with your bread. If it does not 
foam well when put in, it is too stale to use. 

Milk Yeast (or emptyings) is made by mixing half the 
quantity of milk you need for your biscuit, with a teaspoon 
full of salt and a little flour, and setting it in a warm place. 
When light, mix it with the rest of the milk, and use it di- 
rectly for the biscuit. It takes a pint of this yeast for five or 
six loaves of bread. It is nice for biscuit, but is not generally 
liked for bread. 

Some persons prefer to save a small quantity of dough 
from each baking, by drying it or otherwise, for the next 
baking. 

Potato Yeast is made thus : Boil a couple of potatoes ; 
mash them very fine, removing all the lumps ; add a couple 
of tablepoons full of wheat flour, and a quart of hot hop tea ; 
when lukewarm, stir in half a teacup of yeast ; when light, put 
in a couple of teaspoons full of salt ; put it in your yeast-jar 
and cover it up tight. 

YEAST. 
Three quarts of water ; allow it to come to a boiling point ; 
put in two hands full of hops tied in a bag ; boil it half an 
hour; take out the hops, stir in two quarts of grated raw po- 
tatoes ; a teacup two-thirds full of molasses ; a teaspoon full of 
salt ; let it boil ten minutes longer. When about blood warm, 
add a small bowl full of yeast ; stir it well ; after it rises, stir 
it thoroughly once more. Bottle it the next day ; lay the 
corks over the tops of the bottles ; cork it tight the day after, 



302 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

-* 

and keep it in a cool place. When a bottle is empty, wash 
and scald it thoroughly ; it is well to rinse it with saleratus 
water to prevent any acidity. 

YEAST CAKES. 

Make a thick batter of a pint of good yeast, a teaspoon full 
of salt, and rye or wheat flour. When risen, stir in Indian meal 
till of the right consistency to roll out. When risen again, 
roll them out very thin, cut them into cakes with a tumbler, 
and dry them in the shade in clear, windy weather. Care 
must be taken to keep them from the sun, or they will fer- 
ment. When perfectly dry, tie them up in a bag, and keep 
them in a cool, dry place. To raise four or five loaves of bread, 
take one of these cakes and put to it a little lukewarm milk 
or water. W T hen dissolved, stir in a couple of tablespoons 
full of flour ; set it near the fire. When light, use it for your 
dough. Yeast cakes will keep good five or six months. They 
are very convenient to use in summer, as common yeast is so 
apt to ferment. 



CHAPTER XXII. 
COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA. 

Coffee and tea have now become such universal beverages 
for the morning or after dinner meal, that beyond a few gen- 
eral directions, little remains for prefatory matter. 

Coffee should be purchased in the berry, and fresh roasted ; 
it should always, when possible, be ground just previous to be- 
ing made. After it is ground, it should not be exposed to the 
air, as the aroma speedily flies off. If more is ground than 
required for the meal, keep it in a glass bottle closely stopped, 
or a tight tin canister. Coffee, like tea, should be an infusion, 
not a decoction. 

The best coffee is the Mocha, the next is the Java, and 
closely approximating is the Jamaica and Berbice. 

Of tea, little need be said ; almost every one knows the 
rules for making it. 

Boiling water should alone be used. 

Earthen tea pots in preference to metal. 

Silver is better than either. 

Chocolate can only be obtained pure of a first-rate house ; 
that commonly sold, is most infamously adulterated* 

Cocoa is the foundation of chocolate ; it may be pounded, 
and either boiled as milk, or boiling water may be poured 
upon it. It is very digestible, and of a fattening nature. 

COFFEE AND TEA. 

COFFEE. 

To make good common coffee, allow a tablespoon full of it, 
when properly roasted and ground, to each pint of water. 



304 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

Turn on the water boiling hot, and boil the coffee m a tin pot 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes — if boiled longer, it will 
not taste fresh and lively. Let it stand, after being taken from 
the fire, four or five minutes to settle ; then turn it off care- 
fully from the grounds, into a coffee pot or urn. When the 
coffee is put on the fire to boil, a piece of fish skin, (prepared 
and dried for that purpose,) or isinglass of the size of a shil- 
ling, should be put in, or the white and shell of half an egg, to 
a couple of quarts of coffee. When cream cannot be procured 
for coffee, the coffee will be much richer to boil it with a less 
proportion of water than the above rule, and weaken it with 
boiling hot milk, when served out in cups. 

Another way for making coffee is, to put the ground coffee 
into a wide-mouthed bottle over night, aaid pour rather more 
than half a pint of water upon each ounce and a half, and to 
cork the bottle ; in the morning to loosen the cork, put the bot- 
tle into a pan of hot water, and bring the water to a boiling 
heat. The coffee is then to be poured off clear, and the latter 
portion strained ; that which is not drank immediately is kept 
closely stopped, and is heated as it is wanted. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM FOR COFFEE. 

Beat up a fresh egg, then pour boiling water on it gradually 
to prevent its curdling. It is difficult to distinguish it from 
rich cream. 

COFFEE, TO ROAST. 

Coffee should never be roasted but when you are going to 
use it, and then it should be watched with the greatest care, 
and made of a gold color ; mind and do not burn it, for a few 
grains burnt would communicate a bitter taste to the whole ; 
it is the best way to roast it in a roaster which turns with the 
hand, over a charcoal fire, as by that means it will not be for- 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA. 305 

gotten, wnicn is very often the case when in the oven, or be- 
fore the fire. 

COFFEE MILK. 

Boil a dessertspoon full of a coffee in nearly a pint of milk 
a quarter of an hour, then put in a little isinglass and clear 
it, and let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the fire to grow 
fine. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Mix three cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, and 
sugar according to taste ; boil them together, and reduce them 
about one-third ; observe that the coffee must be done as if it 
was for drinking alone, and settle very clear before you mix it 
with the cream. 

COFEE ATJ CREME. 

Put two spoons full of coffee with some sugar into three 
pints of cold cream ; boil it up for half an hour ; let it stand ; 
beat up the yolks of eight eggs, strain them through a sieve, 
and mix the whole together ; put the vessel into boiling water 
to simmer over a slow fire, keeping it constantly stirred. 

COFFEE TO GIVE THE FLAVOR OF VANILLA. 

Take a hand full of oats, very clean, and let them boil for five 
or six minutes in soft water ; throw this away, and fill it up 
with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour ; then 
pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make 
your coffee, which will acquire, by this means, the flavor of 
vanilla, and is very nice. 

COFFEE ICE A l'iTALIENNE. 

Infuse a quarter of a pound of coffee in a pint of double 
cream, boiling hot, for two hours, closely covered ; half whip 



306 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

the whites of nine eggs, and having strained the cream from 
the coffee, mix it with them ; add half a pound of powdered 
sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, 
then ice it. 

COFFEE FROTHED OK WHIPPED. 

Take a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, make a very 
strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining bag ; 
having dissolved three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar 
in a pint of double cream, and the yolks of six eggs, put in 
the coffee, of which there should be no more than three cups, 
and whipped as directed in froth cream. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

Roast a quarter of a pound over a moderate fire, to a fine yel- 
low ; take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and 
throw the rest into three glasses of nearly boiling water ; cover 
it close, and let it cool. In the meantime, boil half a glass of 
water and pour it over the small portion of coffee, which should 
be ground ; add a little isinglass ; when perfectly clear, pour 
it to the other mixture. Having strained it through a silk sieve, 
filter the whole, and mix it with three-quarters of a pound of 
clarified sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass of 
kirschwasser. Finish with ice. 

CHOCOLATE. 

According as you intend to make this, either with milk or 
water, for each cup of one or the other of these liquids put into 
a chocolate pot, add one ounce of cake chocolate. Some per- 
sons dissolve the chocolate before they put it into the milk ; 
let it boil slowly or just simmer for half an hour; add cream 
or milk to it, and sugar to taste ; or the sugar may be omit- 
ted until served. 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA. 307 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

Take one pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a pewter 
plate, and put it into the oven, just to warm the chocolate ; 
then put it into a copper stewpan, with three-quarters of a 
pound of powdered sugar ; mix it well over the fire ; take it 
off, and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles ; put them 
on white paper, and when they are all on, take the sheet of 
paper by each corner and lift it up and down, so that the pa- 
per may touch the table each time, and by that means you 
will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a sixpence. 
Put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are 
on the paper ; then shake them off, and you will see all the 
chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpareils ; let 
them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put 
them in a box, prepared. 

CHOCOLATE BON-BONS. 

Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire to dis- 
solve ; and having boiled two pounds of sugar, put a spoon 
or two full into the chocolate ; stir it well till it forms a thin 
paste, and then pour it on the sugar, and boil it again ; in the 
meantime, melt a little butter, skim and pour it off clear into 
a basin ; rub a spoon fall of it with your hand over a marble 
slab or table ; on this pour the chocolate and sugar ; then 
mark the sugar in squares all over, as quickly as possible, be- 
fore it cools. Loosen the sugar from the marble with a knife 
blade, and pass under it sheets of paper ; when cold, break 
into pieces, according to marks, and wrap each in a bit of 
paper. 

TEA. 

Scald the teapot, and if the tea is a strong kind, a teaspoou 
full for a pint of water is sufficient ; if it is a weak kind, more 
will be required. Pour on just enough boiling water to cover 
the tea, and let it steep. Green tea should not steep more 



308 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

than five or six minutes before drinking; if steeped longer, it 
will not be lively. Black tea requires steeping ten or twelve 
minutes to extract the strength. 

TEA CREAM. 

Boil two drachms or more of good green tea in a quart of 
milk ; in a few minutes strain it ; add three yolks of eggs, 
well beaten, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar ; set it 
on the fire, and reduce it to half, then strain it again ; when 
cold, serve it. 

TEA ICE. 

Take two drachms of the best tea ; tie it in a bit of muslin, 
and boil it in two quarts of cream ; when the infusion is suffi- 
ciently strong, take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix 
the cream with the eggs and sugar. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 



HOME MADE WINES. 




OW that fruit and su- 
gar are both so cheap, 
all housewives may 
add wines to their 
household stores as 
easily as they may 
preserves. The diffi- 
culty and" expense of 
making is trifling, com- 
pared with w r hat the 
latter used to be. Next to the 
fruit, sugar is the most important 
ingredient. In wine countries, the 
grape, under the influence of cli- 
mate, contains within itself the 
chemical properties to produce fer- 
mentation, while with us artificial 
aid is compelled to be ased to ac- 
complish it. The four requisites 
for fermentation are sugar, vege- 
table extract, malic acid, and water; 
and upon the proper regulation of these constituents the suc- 
cess depends. 

The fermentation requires great attention, and should neither 
be suffered to continue too long, nor be checked too early. Its 



;310 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

commencement, which will be about a day after the articles 
have been mixed, will attract attention by the noise it mat 
For a sweet wine, the cask should not be closed until the 
sound of fermentation has almost ceased. If a dry wine, have 
ready a barrel which has been subjected to the fumes of sul- 
phur, and draw off your wine into it. Rack off the wine, clear- 
ing it with isinglass, and bottle it in about ten weeks after. 

APPLE WINE. 

Add to a barrel of cider the herb scurlea, the quintessence 
of wine, a little nitre, and a pound of syrup of honey. Let it 
work in the cask till clear and well settled ; then draw it off, 
and it will be little inferior to Rhenish, either in clearness, 
color, or flavor. 

APRICOT WINE. 

Pare and stone some ripe apricots ; bruise, and put them to 
six quarts of water and one of white wine; simmer gently for 
some time ; when the fruit is soft, pour the liquid to the apri- 
cots, prepared as the others. Let it stand twelve hours, stir- 
ring it often ; pour off the liquid, and press the remains through 
a fine bag, and put them together in a cask to ferment • put a 
pound of sugar to each gallon. Boil an ounce of mace and 
half an ounce of nutmeg in a quart of white wine, and while 
hot, pour it in the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch of fresh 
burrage in the cask for three days ; draw it off, and keep in 
bottles. 

BALM WINE. 

Boil twenty pounds oHump sugar in four gallons and a half 
of water gently for four hours, and put it in a tub to cool ; 
bruise two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them 
into a barrel, with a little new yeast; and when the syrup is 
nearly cold, pour it on the balm ; stir it well together, and let 
it stand four-and-twenty hours, stirring frequently; bring it 



HOME MADE WINES. 311 

up, and when it has stood for six weeks, bottle it ; put a lump 
of sugar into each bottle ; cork tight. 

BIRCH WESTE. 

The season for procuring the liquor from the birch tree is 
in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before 
the leaves shoot out ; for when the sap is come forward and 
the leaves appear, the juice, by being long digested in the bark, 
grows thick and colored, which before was white and clear. 
The method of procuring juice is by boring holes in the body 
of the trees, and putting in fossets, which are made from the 
branches of elder, the pith being taken out. You may, with- 
out hurting the tree, if large, tap it in several places, four or 
five at a time, and by that means save from a good many trees 
several gallons every day ; if you have not enough in one day, 
the bottles in which it drops must be corked close and rosined 
or waxed ; make use of it as soon as you can. Take the sap, 
and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time. 
To every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good sugar, and 
the thin peel of a lemon; boil it afterward half an hour, skim- 
ming it very well ; pour it into a clean tub, and when it is al- 
most cold, set it to work with.yeast, spread upon a toast ; let 
it stand five or six days, stirring it often ; then take such a 
cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match, dipped in brim- 
stone, and throw it into the cask ; stop it close until the match 
is extinguished ; tun your wine ; lay the bung on light till 
you find it has done working ; stop it close, and keep it three 
months ; then bottle it off. 

BLACKBERRY WTN"E. 

Put some ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a cock 
in it ; pour on as much boiling water as will cover them, and 
as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the 
hand till all the berries are broken ; cover them, and in about 



312 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw off 
the clear part into another vessel ; add to every ten quarts of 
the liquor one pound of sugar ; stir it well in, and let it stand 
a week or ten days to work. Draw it off through a jelly bag. 
Steep four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet wine for twelve 
hours ; then boil it slowly till dissolved ; put it in a gallon of 
the juice ; boil them together ; then put all together ; let it 
stand a few days, and bottle. 



CHERRY WINE. 

To make five pints of this wine, take fifteen pounds of cher- 
ries and two of currants ; bruise them together ; mix with 
them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole of the cher- 
ries, currants, and kernels into a barrel, with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel must be 
quite full ; cover the barrel with vine leaves, and sand above 
them, and let it stand until it has done working, which will 
be in about three weeks ; then stop it with a bung, and in two 
months' time it may be bottled. 

CLARY WINE. 

Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice 
of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of eggs for half an 
hour, skimming it carefully ; then pour this, while boiling hot, 
on a peck of fresh clary flowers, with the peels of the lemons 
used above, and stir it well ; add a thin dry toast, covered 
with yeast. When it has worked two or three days, add to 
it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhenish wine. 
Squeeze the clary through a cloth ; strain the liquor through 
a flannel bag in a cask ; lay the bung on loosely, and if in the 
course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite close. 
The wine may be bottled in three months. 



HOME MADE WINES. 313 

CURRANT WINE. 

Take sixteen pounds of currants, three gallons of water ; 
break the currants with your hands in the water; strain it off; 
put to it fourteen pounds of sugar ; strain it into a vessel ; add 
a pint of brandy, and a pint of raspberries ; stop it down, and 
let it stand three months. 



CURRANT WESTE RED OR WHITE. 

Take thirty pounds of either red or white currants, and an 
equal quantity of black currants, and small cherries not stoned, 
and leaving on the stalks; put the whole into a cask, and 
bruise them with a large stick ; then boil half a quarter of ju- 
niper berries in five or six pints of water, to which add half a 
pound of honey to make the juniper berries ferment ; when 
they have fermented, mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stir 
it together during four-and-twenty hours two or three times ; 
then fill up the cask with water, and close it. This quantity 
will make one hundred and fifty bottles of excellent wine ; 
if you wish to make it stronger, put in a pint or two of 
brandy. 

CDRRANT WLNE. 

To every pail full of currants, on the stem, put one pail 
full of water ; mash and strain. To each gallon of the mix- 
ture of juice and water add three and a quarter pounds of su- 
gar. Mix well, and put in your cask, which should be placed 
in the cellar, on the tilt, that it may be racked off in October, 
without stirring up the sediment. Two bushels of currants 
will make one barrel of wine. Four gallons of the mixture 
of juice and water will, after thirteen pounds of sugar are 
added, make five gallons of wine. The barrel should be filled 
within three inches of the bung, which must be made air tight, 
by placing w r et clay over it after it is driven in. 
N 



314 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

DAMSON WINE. 
Gather the damsons on a dry day, and bruise them. Put 
them into a stein with a cock in it, and to every eight pounds 
of fruit add one gallon of boiling water. In two days you 
may draw it off, and put it into a vessel, and to every c;dk>n 
of the liquor add two pounds and a half of sugar. Fill Dp, 
and stop it close. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve 
months ; then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar in each bot- 
tle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for use in two 
months after. 

ELDER WINE. 

Pour a gallon of boiling water over qycvy gallon of berries ; 
let it stand twelve hours ; then draw it off, and boil it up with 
three pounds and a half of sugar; when boiling, beat up the 
whites of some eggs, and clarify it ; skim it clear; then add 
half an ounce of pounded ginger to every gallon of the wine ; 
boil it a little longer before you put it in the tub ; when cool, 
put in a toast rubbed in yeast; let it ferment a day or two. 
after which put it into a barrel previously rinsed with brandy. 
All wines should be lukewarm when the yeast is added to it. 

GINGER WINE. 

To every gallon of water add three pounds of sugar, and 
one pound of ginger, the paring of one lemon, half a pound 
of raisins, stoned; boil all half an hour; let it stand until it is 
lukewarm ; then put it into the cask, with the juice of a lemon : 
add one spoon full of yeast to every gallon ; stir it every day 
for ten days ; then add half a pint of brandy to every two 
gallons, half an ounce of isinglass to every six gallons ; stop 
it closedown, and in about eight weeks it will be fit to bottle. 

GOOSEBERRY WINE. 

Bruise the gooseberries with the hands in a tub ; to every 
six pounds of fruit add a quart of cold spring water, stirring 



HOME MADE WINES. 315 

it thoroughly ; let it stand twenty hours ; then strain it ; dis- 
solve two pounds of sugar to every quart of water employed ; 
let it remain another day ; remove the scum very clearly, and 
pour it into the utensil or cask in whicB it is to remain, pre- 
vious to being bottled. The scum removed must be kept in 
flannel, and the drain ings caught in a vessel ; they must be 
added to the other liquor. Let it work about sixty hours, not 
more, and then cover down close. In four months it will be 
ready for bottling. 

GRAPE WINE. 

To one gallon of grapes put one gallon of water; bruise the 
grapes ; let them stand a week without stirring ; then draw it 
off, and fine. Put to a gallon of wine three pounds of sugar ; 
put it in a vessel, but it must not be stopped till it has done 
hissing. 

MOUNTAIN WINE. 

Take some Malaga raisins, press and chop them fine, and to 
ten pounds of raisins put two gallons of water ; let them steep 
three weeks, stirring it now and then during the time ; squeeze 
out the liquor and put it in a vessel that will just hold it, but 
be careful not to stop it until it has done hissing, then bung it 
up close. It will be fit for use in six months. 

PARSNIP WINE. 

Clean and quarter four pounds of parsnips, to which put one 
gallon of water ; boil them till tender, drain them through a 
sieve, but do not bruise them ; pour the liquor into a tub, and 
to each gallon add three pounds of lump sugar and half an 
ounce of crude tartar ; when cool put in the yeast, and let it 
stand four days in a warm room, then turn it. The mixture 
should be fermented in a temperature of sixty degrees. When 
fermentation has subsided, bung down the cask, and let it stand 



316 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

twelve months before bottling it. March and September are 
the best months for making it. It only requires to be kept a 
few years to make it superior to all other made wines, 
f 

RAISIN WIFE. 

One hundred of Smyrnas to twenty gallons of water (wine 
measure ;) boil half a pound of hops in the water for an hour, 
let it stand till cold, then pour it over the fruit ; let it remain 
three weeks, stirring it every day ; press it off and put it into 
the cask ; do not bung it down till the fermentation has ceased ; 
when it has stood about a year draw it off clear, put it in the 
barrel again, and let it stand to settle before it is bottled ; be- 
fore it is bunged down close, put a quart of brandy to a hogs- 
head of wine ; what is thick should be run through a flannel 
bag. 

The time for steeping depends on the warmth of the weather. 
When the fruit is swelled ready to break, it is fit to press. 

RASPBERRY WINE. 

Take three pounds of raisins, wash, clean, and stone them 
thoroughly ; boil two gallons of spring water for half an hour ; 
as soon as it is taken off the fire pour it into a deep stone jar, 
and put in the raisins, with six quarts of raspberries and two 
pounds of loaf sugar ; stir it well together, and cover them 
closely, and set it in a cool place ; stir it twice a day, then pass 
it through a sieve ; put the liquor into a close vessel, adding 
one pound more loaf sugar ; let it stand for a day and night to 
settle, after which bottle it, adding a little more sugar. 

WALNUT WINE. 

To one gallon of water put two pounds of brown sugar and 
a pound of honey, and boil them for half an hour ; be careful 
to skim it cleau ; put into a tub a hand full of walnut leaves 



HOME MADE WINES. 317 

to every gallon, and pour the liquor upon them ; let it stand 
all night, then take out the leaves and put in half a pint of 
yeast. Let it work fourteen days ; beat it five times a day to 
take off its sweetness, and stop up the cask. It should stand 
six months before it is used. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To each quart of raspberries, allow a pound of loaf sugar. 
Mash the raspberries and strew the sugar over them, having 
first crushed it with the rolling-pin. Let the raspberries and 
sugar stand till next day, keeping them well covered, then put 
them in a thin linen bag and squeeze out the juice with your 
hands. To every pint of juice allow a quart of the best vine- 
gar. Bottle it, cork it tightly, and set it away for use. It will 
be ready in a few days. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
v 
LIQUORS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 

CHERRY BRANDY. 

Choose the finest morel cherries you can obtain ; place 
them in layers in glass jars, strew pounded sugar between each 
layer, cover them with brandy. As soon as the cherries have 
imbibed the brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them con- 
stantly covered. 

CHERRY BRANDY (BLACK.) 

Pick and bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the 
same quantity of small black cherries; let them stand for two 
months in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two pounds of 
crushed sugar, and a quart of sack, well stirred together. At 
the end of that time it may be drawn off and bottled. 

CAPILLATRE. 

Take fourteen pounds of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, 
six eggs beaten in with the shells, three quarts of water: boil 
it up twice ; skim it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of 
orange flower water; strain it through a jelly bag, and put it 
into bottles when cold ; mix a spoon full or two of this syrup, 
as it is liked for sweetness, in a draught of warm or cold water. 

CAPILLAIRE — SYRUP OF. 

The capillaire of Canada, although that of Montpellier is 
equally good, is a very odoriferous vegetable, light and agreea- 
ble, but so extremely volatile that the greatest part of it is dis- 



LIQUORS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 319 

sipated during the preparation of the syrup. To preserve, then, 
the odor of the eapillaire, when the syrup is sufficiently done, 
pour it whilst boiling upon some fresh eapillaire, coarsely chop- 
ped up, then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite 
cold ; then pass it through a boiling cloth to separate it from 
the leaves of the eapillaire; take one ounce of the eapillaire 
from Canada, put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it four pints 
of boiling water, leave it to infuse for twelve hours over some 
warm ashes, strain it, and let it run into a vessel ; it will give 
you a strong tincture of capillare ; melt with this tincture four 
pounds of sugar ; put the whole into a preserving pan, and put 
it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg ; continue 
the cooking ; when your syrup boils put some fresh eapillaire, 
chopped, into a pan, and pour your syrup whilst boiling upon 
it, cover your pan carefully, and let it cool ; when your syrup 
is cold you may flavor it if you please. Put it into bottles, and 
cork it hermetically. 

HIPPOCRAS. 

Take one ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two 
pennyweights of cloves, nutmeg. Pound these together well, 
and infuse them in a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of 
malmsey ; to this add a pound of the best loaf sugar. These 
proportions will make a quart of the liquor. 

LEMONADE. 

Take four lemons, pare the rind as thin as possible ; squeeze 
them into a quart of water, add half a pound of fine sugar, let 
it stand two or three hours, and pass it through a jelly bag. 

MEAD. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey ; boil it 
an hour ; then put it into a tub with some yeast on a toast ; 
cover it over. If it ferments well, after three or four days draw 



3*20 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

it off clear, put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to every 
gallon ; add a bottle of brandy to every ten gallons. The rind 
of Seville oranges cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, will 
greatly improve the flavor. It is best to wash the cask round 
with part of the brandy before the liquor is put in. Those who 
like mead to have an aromatic flavor, may mix with it elder, 
rosemary, marjoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, 
pepper, and cardamums in various proportions, according to 
taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglantine, rosemary, 
and marjoram, with various spices. 

MEAD FRONTLNIAC. 

Ten pounds of honey, ten pounds of the best raisins, and ten 
gallons of water ; boil about ten minutes, keeping well skim- 
med ; put it into a vessel to work ; put to it the fifth of a pint 
of yeast, letting it work until the yeast begins to fall ; when 
taken clear off, turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask 
the fifth of a quart of elder flowers ; attend to it as the weather 
changes ; let it remain in the cask twelve months, fine it then 
with wine finings, and bottle it. 

MEAD SACK. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and 
boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To 
every gallon add one ounce of hops, boil it half an hour, then 
let it stand until the following day ; put it into a cask, and to 
thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it 
slightly until the fermentation is over, then stop it very close. 
If you make a large cask, keep it in the cask for twelve 
months. 

NOYEAU. 

Two gallons of gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound 
of sweet almonds ; pound them in a mortar, and beat to a fine 



LIQUORS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 321 

paste ; six pounds of powdered sugar (mix some with the al- 
monds ;) let these stand ten days in the gin ; filter through 
blotting paper, and bottle it. 

ORANGEADE. 

Squeeze the juice ; pour some boiling water on the peel, 
cover it closely, boil water and sugar to a thin syrup and skim 
it ; when all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, 
with as much water as will make a rich sherbet ; strain through 
a jelly bag. 

PUNCH. 

Squeeze the juice of six fine lemons through a sieve into a 
china bowl; grate some lemon peel on a piece of sugar, 
scrape off the surface as it becomes yellow, and dissolve the 
sugar in the lemon juice ; then pour in a bottle of champagne, 
the same of rum, a bottle of brandy, and a little green tea ; 
dilute these ingredients with hot water at discretion. The 
quantity of sugar must be also regulated according to taste. 



PUNCH, MILK. 

Fill a bottle as full as possible of lemon peel,, and then add 
as much brandy as it will admit ; let this, corked, stand in the 
sun two or three days ; then mix with the brandy, having 
poured it out, two pounds of sugar, two quarts of water, four 
of brandy, two of boiling milk, boiled with spice, and about a 
pint of lemon juice ; when this is cold strain it till quite clear, 
and bottle it instantly. 

RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. 

Ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds and a half of 

raspberries, five pounds and a half of red, and two pounds and 

a half of black currants ; pick and mix these fruits together, 

press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of 

N* 21 



322 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

juice take half a pound of sugar and an equal quantity of bran- 
dy ; dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in the brandy, and 
a drachm of mace, and two drachms of cloves. Let the whole 
stand some time ; filter, and bottle it. Keep them well corked. 

SHRUB. 

To a gallon of rum add a quart of Seville orange juice, with 
three pounds of lump sugar, and a hand full of the peel pared 
extremely thin ; let it stand in a cask for three months, then 
filter it through a cloth and bottle it. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

To a pint of strained currant juice, put a pound of sugar. 
Boil the sugar and juice gently together, eight or ten minutes, 
then set it w r here it will cool. Add, when lukewarm, a wine 
glass of French brandy to every pint of syrup — bottle and 
cork it tight — keep it in a cool place. 

LEMON SHRUB. 

Procure nice fresh lemons — pare the rind off thin, then 
squeeze out the juice of the lemons, and strain it. To a pint 
of the juice put a pound of white sugar, broken into small 
pieces. Measure out for each pint of the syrup three table- 
spoons full of French brandy, and soak the rind of the lemons 
in it. Let the whole remain a day, stirring up the lemon 
juice and sugar frequently. The next day turn off the syrup, 
and mix it with the brandy and lemon rinds — put the whole 
in clean bottles, cork and seal them tight, and keep them in 
dry sand, in a cool place. 

WHOLESOME BEVERAGE. 

From half a pint to a pint of sweet milk boiled, to which is 
added a teaspoon full of curry powder and sugar to taste; 
drank warm it will be found a grateful beverage for those of 



LIQUORS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 323 

weak bowels, and who may require to go abroad on very cold, 
raw mornings before breakfast, and will be much better, nay 
entirely supersede, the use of ardent spirits. 

SPRING- BEER. 

Take a small bunch of all, or part of the following : sweet 
fern, sarsaparilla, wintergreen, sassafras, prince's pine, and spice 
wood. Boil them with two or three ounces of hops to three 
or four gallons of water, and two or three raw potatoes, pared 
and cut in slices. The strength of the roots and hops is obtained 
more thoroughly by boiling them in two waters — for, when 
the liquor is strongly saturated with the hops, it will rather 
bind up the roots than extract their juices. The roots should 
be boiled five or six hours — the liquor should then be strained, 
and a quart of molasses put to three gallons of the beer. If 
you wish to have the beer very rich, brown half a pound of 
bread, and put it into the liquor. If the liquor is too thick, di- 
lute it with cold water. When just lukewarm; put in a pint 
of fresh, lively yeast, that has no salt in it. The salt has a ten- 
dency to keep it from fermenting. Keep it in a temperate 
situation, covered over, but not so tight as to exclude the air 
entirely, or it will not work. When fermented, keep it in a 
tight keg, or bottle and cork it up. 

GINGER BEER. 

Boil gently, in a gallon of water, three tablespoons full of 
cream of tartar, three of ginger, and a lemon cut in slices. 
When it has boiled half an hour, take it from the fire, strain 
and sweeten to your taste ; white sugar is the best, but brown 
sugar or molasses answers very well. Put to it, when luke- 
warm, half a pint of fresh yeast. Turn it off carefully, when 
fermented, bottle it, and keep it in a cool place. It will be fit 
to drink in the course of seven or eight days. 



324 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

WHITE SPRUCE BEER. 

Three pounds of loaf sugar ; five gallons of water ; with 
enough of essence of spruce to give it a flavor ; a cup of good 
yeast ; a little lemon peel, if you choose ; and when ferment- 
ed, bottle it up close. It is a delightful beverage in warm 
weather. 

HARVEST DRINK. 

Mix with five gallons of good water, half a gallon of molas- 
ses, one quart of vinegar, and two ounces of powdered ginger. 
This will make not only a very pleasant beverage, but one 
highly invigorating and healthful. 

CREAM SODA AN EXCELLENT DRINK FOR WARM WEATHER. 

Five pounds of loaf sugar, one ounce cream of tartar, one 
ounce Epsom salts, five ounces tartaric acid. Dissolve all the 
ingredients in one gallon of water, and heat it till it boils ; and 
skim, if necessary. When cool, put the syrup in bottles, and 
set in a cool place. To prepare the drink, put two or three 
tablespoons fall of the syrup into a tumbler two-thirds full of 
water; add one-fourth of a teaspoon full of super- carbonate of 
soda ; stir briskly, and the effervescence will be equal to any 
soda from the fount. Try it. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 

EGG GRUEL. 

Boil a pint of new milk ; beat two new laid eggs to a light 
froth, and pour in while the milk boils ; stir them together tho- 
roughly, but do not let them boil ; sweeten it with the best of 
loaf sugar, and grate in a whole nutmeg ; add a little salt, if 
you like it. Drink half of it while it is warm, and the other 
half in two hours. It is said to be good for dysentery, as well 
as nourishing. 

APPLE WATER. 

Take one tart apple of ordinary size, well baked ; let it be 
well mashed ; pour on it one pint of boiling water ; beat them 
well together ; let it stand to cool, and strain it off for use. Add 
loaf sugar, if the patient desire it. 

ARROW ROOT. 
Put two teaspoons full of the powder into a basin ; mix 
them smooth with a few teaspoons full of cold water, and let 
another person pour boiling water over the mixture while you 
continue to stir it, until it forms a kind of starchy looking sub- 
stance. Thus prepared, it may be used in the same manner as 
gruel. It is well adapted for the food of infants, because it is less 
liable to ferment than either gruel or barley water ; and, for the 
same reason, it is the best fluid nourishment for those who are 
afflicted with indigestion. A little milk or wine may be added, 
to improve the flavor. 



32G PRACTICAL COOKERY* 

A NOURISHING JELLY. 
Put into a stone jar or jug a set of calves' feet, cut in pieces, a 
quart of milk, five pints of water, a little mace, half an ounce of 
isinglass, and a hand fall of hartshorn shavings. Tie some 
brown paper over the jug, and put it into the oven with house- 
hold bread. When done, strain it through a sieve ; and when 
cold, take off the fat. Some of it may occasionally be warmed 
up with wine and sugar. It is good taken as broth, with herbs. 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut a pound of lean beef in thin slices ; put it into a quart 
and half a pint of cold water; set it over a gentle fire, where 
it will become gradually warm ; when the scum rises, let it 
continue simmering gently for about an hour, then strain it 
through a sieve or a napkin, let it stand ten minutes to settle, 
and then pour off the clear tea. This is one of the common re- 
storatives given to persons who are recovering from sickness. 

TOAST AND WATER. 

Toast thin slices of bread on both sides, carefully ; then 
pour cold water over the bread, and cover it tight for one 
hour; or use boiling water, and let it cool. 

WATERS FOR COOLING DRAUGHTS OF PRESERVED OR FRESH 
FRUITS APPLE WATER, LEMON WATER, ETC. 

Pour boiling water on the preserved or fresh fruits, sliced ; 
or squeeze out the juice, boil it with sugar, and add water. 

WATER GRUEL. 

Mix two tablespoons full of Indian or oat meal, with three 
of water. Have ready a pint and a half of boiling water in a 
saucepan or skillet, perfectly clean ; pour this by degrees into 
the mixture in the bowl ; then return it back into the skillet, 



PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 32? 

and place it on the fire to boil. Stir it, and let it boil half an 
hour. Skim it, and season it with a little salt. If it is admis- 
sible, a little sugar and nutmeg renders it more palatable. 
Also, if milk is not forbidden, a small teacup full added to a 
pint of gruel, and boiled up once, makes a nice dish for an 
invalid. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

This is made nearly in the same way as gruel, only using 
half flour and half meal, and half milk instead of w r ater. It 
should be cooked before the milk is added, and only boiled up 
once afterward. 

WINE WHEY. 

Take half a pint of new milk, put it on the fire, and the mo- 
ment it boils, pour in that instant two glasses of wine, and a 
teaspoon full of powdered sugar previously mixed. The curd 
will soon form, and after it has boiled, set it aside until the 
curd settles. Pour the whey oft' and add a pint of boiling 
water, and loaf sugar to sweeten to the taste. This may be 
drank in typhus and other fevers, debility, &c. 

CHICKEN, BEEF, OR VEAL BROTH. 

This is made by cutting up the chicken, or the lean of 
veal or beef, and putting in two spoons full of washed rice, 
and boiling until tender. It may be used, if needed in haste, 
after boiling in less water about fifteen minutes, then fill- 
ing it up and finishing. It should be put by in a bowl or 
pitcher covered, to keep for use. Warm it, and add crumbs 
of crackers or bread a day or two old, with a little salt, and 
there is nothing; more palatable for the sick 



328 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

HOT LEMONADE. 

Cut up the whole of a lemon, rind and all, add one tea- 
cup full of white sugar, and pour on boiling water. This is 
good for colds, and is a pleasant drink for the sick. 

rice GRUEL. 

Take one spoon full of rice, a pint and a half of water, a 
stick of cinnamon or lemon peel ; boil it soft, and add a 
pint of new milk ; strain it, and season it with a little salt. 
If you make it of rice flour, mix one spoon full with a lit- 
tle cold water smoothly, and stir it into a quart of boiling 
water. Let it boil five or six minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Season it with salt, nutmeg and sugar, and, if admissible, a 
little butter. If the patient bears stimulants, a little wine 
may be added. 

EGG CREAM. 

To the yolks of three eggs, and a dessertspoon full of 
good new milk or cream,, add two drops of oil of cinna- 
mon. This is a very nourishing mixture. The oil of cinna- 
mon is cordial and tonic, and the above has been recom- 
mended in lung complaints, w T here respiration has been at- 
tended with pain, and a dry cough, especially after eating or 
exercise. It is also excellent in cases of hectic toward the eve- 
ning, and of profuse night sweats. 

CAUDLE. 

Make a fine, smooth gruel of half grits ; when boiled, strain 
it ; stir it at times till cold ; when wanted for use, add sugar, 
wine, and lemon peel, with some nutmeg, according to taste ; 
you may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoon full of 
brandy, or lemon juice. 



THE COOK'S TABLE 

OF 

WEIGHTS ANI3 MEASURES. 



By which persons not having scales and weights at hand, may readily 
measure the articles wanted to fdrm any recipe, without the trouble 
of weighing. Allowance to be made for an extraordinary dryness 
or moisture of the article weighed or measured. 



WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Wheat flour, 
Indian meal, . 
Butter, when soft, 
Loaf sugar, broken, 
White sugar, powdered, 
Best brown sugar, 

Eggs, . 
Flour, 
Flour . 



one pound is 

one pound, two ounces, is 

one pound is 

one pound is 

one pound, one ounce is 

one pound, two ounces, id 

ten eggs are . 

eight quarts are 

four pecks are 



one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart. 
one quart. 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one pound, 
one peck, 
one bushel. 



LIQUIDS, ETC 

Sixteen large tablespoons full are 

Eight large tablespoons full are 

Four large tablespoons full are 

Two gills are 

Two pints are 

Four quarts are 

A common sized tumbler holds 

A common sized wine glass . 

A teacup is 

A large wine glass is 

A tablespoon full 

Forty drops are equal to a • 

Four teaspoons full are equal to 



half a pint. 
. one gill. 

half a gill. 
. half a pint. 

one quart. 
. one* gallon. 

half a pint. 
. half a gill. 

one gill. 

two ounces. 

half ounce, 
one teaspoon full, 
one tablespoon full. 



DOMESTIC ECOX03IY. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

BLACKING. 

The best blacking for preserving the leather of boots and 
shoes, and which will make it perfectly water-tight, is the fol- 
lowing: Take of yellow wax one ounce and a half, of mutton 
suet four ounces and a half, turpentine half an ounce, ivory- 
black three ounces ; melt first the wax, to which add the suet 
and afterward the turpentine ; when the whole is melted, re- 
move it from the (ire ; mix in, gradually, the ivory black, con- 
stantly stirring it till it is cold. This composition is some 
times run into moulds, and sold under the name of blacking 
balls ; when it is used, it may be laid or rubbed upon a brush, 
which should be wanned before the fire; it is also the best 
blacking for every kind of harness; when it is wanted in a 
large quantity, it may be gently melted in a ladle or pot over 
a chafing dish of live coals. 

TO KNOW GOOD FLOUU. 

When Hour is genuine, or of the best kind, it holds together 
in amass when squeezed by the hand, and shows the impres- 
sion of the fingers, and even of the marks of the skin, much 
longer than when it is Lad or adulterated ; and the dough made 
with it is very gluey, ductile, and elastic, easy to be kneaded, 
and which may lie elongated, flattened, and drawn in every di- 
rection without, breaking. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 331 

TO CLEAN DECANTERS. 

Roll up in small pieces some coarse brown paper, then wet 
and soap the same ; put them into the vessel with a little luke- 
warm water, and some common soda, shake them well, rinse 
with clean water, and it will be as bright and clear as when 
new. 

CLEANING FLOOR CLOTHS. 

After sweeping and cleaning the floor cloths with a broom 
and damp flannel, in the usual manner, wet them over with 
milk, and rub them till beautifully bright with a dry cloth; 
they will thus look as if they were rubbed fii\-t with a waxed 
flannel, and afterward with a dry one, without being so slip- 
pery, or so soon clogging with dust or dirt. 

« 
GOOD SHAVING SOAP. 

Take four pounds white bar soap, one quart rain water, one 
half pint beef's gall, one gill spirits of turpentine. Cut the soap 
into thin slices, and boil five minutes after the soap is dissolved ; 
stir while boiling ; color it with one half paper Vermillion — 
scent with what you like ; use the oil instead of essence. Sev- 
enty-five cents' worth of materials will make seven dollars' 
wurth of soap. 

TO KEEP THE HANDS SOFT. 

Rub the hands well in soap till a lather is produced ; then 
rub on a sufficient quantity of sand to let the soap predomi- 
nate ; after well rubbing, wash in warm water. Repeat this 
two or three times a day, as circumstances may require, and 
the hands will be kept perfectly soft. 

TO PREVENT IRON RUSTING. 

Warm \ our iron till you cannot bear your hand on it with- 
out burning vourself. Then rub it with new and clean wax 



332 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

Put it again to the lire till it has soaked in the wax. When 
done, rub it over with a piece of serge. This prevents the iron 
from rusting afterward. 

TO CLEAN TURKEY CARPETS. 

To revive the color of a Turkey carpet, beat it well with a 
stick till the dust is all out, then with a lemon or sorrel juice 
take out the spots of ink, if the carpet be stained with any ; 
wash it in cold water, and afterward shake out all the water 
from the threads of the carpet ; when it is thoroughly dry rub 
it all over with the crumb of a hot wheat loaf, and if the weath- 
er is very fine hang it out in the open air a night or two. 

TO CLEAN WATER CASKS. 

Scour the inside well out with water and sand, and after- 
•ward apply a quantity of charcoal dust ; another and a better 
method is to rinse them with a strong solution of oil of vitriol 
and water, which entirely deprives them of their foulness. 

TO DETECT WHITING OR CHALK IN FLOUR. 

Mix with the flour some juice of lemon or good vinegar, if 
the flour be pure they will remain together at rest, but if there 
be a mixture of whitiug or chalk, a fermentation or working 
like yeast will ensue ; the adulterated meal is whiter and heav- 
ier than the good. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR WHITE OIL PAINT. 

Four quarts of skim milk, one pound of fresh-slacked lime, 
twelve ounces of linseed oil, four ounces of white Burgundy 
pitch, six pounds of Spanish white, to be mixed as follows: 
The lime to be slacked in water, exposed to the air, mixed in 
about one-fourth of the milk; the oil, in which the pitch is to 
have been previously dissolved, to be added a little at a time ; 
then the rest of the milk, and afterward the Spanish white. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 333 

This quantity is sufficient for more than fifty square yards with 
two coats. 

TO TAKE SMELL FROM FRESH PAINT. 

Let tubs of water be placed in the room,* newly painted, 
near the wainscot, and an ounce of vitriolic acid put into the 
water ; and, in a few days, this water will absorb and retain 
the effluvia from the paint, but the water should be .renewed 
with a fresh supply once or twice. 

CEMENT FOR IRON WARE. 

Beat the whites of eggs to a froth ; then stir into them 
enough quicklime to make a consistent paste ; then add iron 
file dust to make a thick paste. The quicklime should be re- 
duced to a fine powder before mixing it with the eggs. Fill 
the cracks in iron ware with this cement, and let them remain 
several weeks before using them. 

A CHEAP AND DURABLE CEMENT. 

A most valuable and durable cement for the outside cover- 
ing of wood buildings and fences, may be obtained by mixing 
two parts of sifted wood ashes, one of fine sand, and three of 
clay ; these being again mixed with oil, and applied to the 
surface of the wood, it is said to be capable of resisting the in- 
clemency of the weather, even better than marble itself. 

BLACK INK. 

Take four ounces of galls, two ounces of copperas, and one 
ounce of gum Arabic. Beat the galls, and put them in a quart 
of warm soft water. Soak it eight or nine days in the hot sun, 
or by the fire, shaking it often. Then add the copperas and 
gum, and it will be fit for use in two or three days. The gum 
Arabic must be dissolved in warm water, and a half ounce of 
alum powdered, added to the whole. 



334 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

BEESWAX. 

To obtain wax, boil the combs in a strong muslin bag, in a 
sauce pan, with water sufficient to keep the bag from burning, 
and while boiling, continue to press the bag with a wooden 
slice or spoon, 'to extract the whole, as you skim off the wax. 
Drop the wax into cold water, where it will swim on the sur- 
face. The wax thus obtained will still want refining, to effect 
which, place it in a sauce pan, and melt it over a slow fire. 
Then pour off the clear wax into proper vessels, and let it cool. 

FENCES. 
In reply to an inquiry of a correspondent, the editor of the 
Massachusetts Ploughman gives the following interesting facts : 
Boards will last a long while when well supported by posts. 
See the boards of eighty years on old barns and out buildings! 
Posts last a vast deal longer in wet soils than in dry, sandy 
loams — longer in clay than in the richest soil. In peat mead- 
ows the bottoms of posts hold out longer than the tops 
and the rails. On dry soils, posts should be charred, and 
if the owner would be at the trouble of placing a few ashes 
around each post, he would preserve them twice as long as 
without ashes. Lime, also, is good to preserve wood, though 
farmers sometimes use it to hasten the rotting of compost 
heaps. 

HARD CEMENT FOR SEAMS. 

A very excellent cement for seams in the roofs of houses, 
or for any other exposed places, is made with white lead, dry 
white sand, and as much oil as will make it into the consist- 
ency of putty. This cement gets as hard as any stone in the 
course of a few weeks. The lead forms a kind of flux with the 
sand ; it is excellent for filling up cracks in exposed parts of 
brick buildings ; it is also a good cement for pointing up the 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 335 

base of chimneys, where they project through the roofs of 
shingled houses. 

TO CLEAN CHINA. 

China is best cleaned, when very dirty, with finely pow- 
dered fuller's-earth and warm water. A little clean soft soap 
may be added to the water instead of fuller's-earth. The same 
is recommended for cleaning glass. 

TO CLEAN PLATE. 

A flannel and soap, and soft water, with proper rubbing, wili 
clean plate nicely. It should be wiped dry with a good-sized 
piece of soft leather. Others use a little whiting and sweet 
oil, mixed. 

TO CLEAN OIL PAINTINGS. 

Clean the picture well with a sponge, dipped in warm beer; 
after it has become perfectly dry, wash it with a solution of 
the finest gum-dragon, dissolved in pure water. Never use 
blue starch, which tarnishes and eats out the coloring ; nor 
white of eggs, which casts a thick varnish over pictures, and 
only mends bad ones by concealing the faults of the coloring. 

ECONOMY IN FUEL. 

A saving of nearly one-third of the coal consumed may be 
made by the following easy means : Let the coal ashes, which 
are usually thrown into the dust bin, be preserved in a corner 
of the coal hole, and make your servants add to them from 
your coal heap an equal part of the small coal or slack, which 
is too small to be retained in the grate, and pour a small quan- 
tity of water upon the mixture. When you make up your 
fire, place a few round coals in front, and throw some of this 
mixture behind; it saves the trouble of sifting your ashes, 
gives a warm and pleasant fire, and a very small pare only 
will remain unburnt. 



336 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

GOOD YTNEGAR. 

To eight gallons of clear rain water add three quarts of mo- 
lasses ; turn the mixture into a clean, tight cask ; shake it well 
two or three times, and add three spoons full of good yeast, 
or two yeast cakes. Place the cask in a warm place, and in 
ten or fifteen days add a sheet of common wrapping paper, 
smeared with molasses, and torn into narrow strips, and you 
will have good vinegar. The paper is necessary to form the 
"mother," or life, of the liquor. 

CIDER VINEGAR. 

The poorest cider will answer for vinegar, in the making of 
which proceed thus : First draw off the cider into a cask that 
has had vinegar in it before, if you have such a one ; then put 
into it some of the apples, that have been pressed, or pumice ; 
if placed in the sun, in two weeks it may be drawn away and 
put into another cask, fit for use. 

TO BLACKEN THE FRONTS OF STONE CimiNEY-PIECES. 

Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirits of turpen- 
tine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone 
with soap and water, very clean ; then sponge it with clear 
water, and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this 
color, letting it dry between the times. It looks extremely 
well. The lamp-black must be sifted first. 

TRACING PATER, 

Mix six quarts by weight of the spirits of turpentine, one of 
rosin, and one of boiled nut-oil, and lay this on the paper with 
a brush or sponge. If the Canada balsam is employed as a 
substitute for the rosin, a finer quality of tracing paper is the 
result. The paper should be well dried before used. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 337 

CEMENT FOR IRON FLUES. 

Common salt and sifted wood -ashes, in equal parts, made 
into a paste with water, is a very good cement for iron flues, 
and may be applied when the flue is hot or cold. Iron filings 
and vinegar will do almost as well, or rather iron filings moist- 
ened with diluted muriatic acid. These are generally used for 
filling up the space between cylinders. 

TO EXTRACT MARKING INK. 

The following process will be found easy and effectual. Take 
the piece of marked linen and immerse it in a solution of 
chloride of lime ; when in a few minutes the characters will 
pass from black to white, owing to a new preparation of silver 
being formed, namely, white chloride of silver, which still re- 
mains in the fabric ; but owing to its solubility in solution of 
ammonia, it may be entirely extracted by immersion in that 
liquid, immediately it is removed out of the first, and allowing 
it to remain in it for a few minutes ; after this, it only re- 
quires to be well rinsed in clean water, which completes the 
process. 

TO TREVENT COLD FEET IN BED. 

Draw off your stockings just before undressing, and rub 
your ankles and feet well with your hand, as hard as you can 
bear the pressure, for five or ten minutes, and you will never 
have to complain of cold feet in bed. It is hardly conceivable 
what a pleasurable glow this diffuses. Frequent washing of 
the feet, and rubbing them thoroughly dry with a linen cloth 
or flannel, is very useful. 

ECONOMICAL USE OF NUTMEG. 

If you grate a nutmeg at the stalk end, it will prove hollow 
throughout ; whereas the same nutmeg, had it been grated from 
the other end, would have proved sound and solid to the last. 
O 22 



338 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO EXTINGUISH A FIRE. 

A solution of five ounces muriate of ammonia in one gallon 
of water will easily extinguish a large fired 

FROST-BITTEN FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 

Such fruits and roots as pears, apples, and potatoes, as have 
been penetrated by frost, may be recovered by putting them 
into cold water when a thaw approaches, and letting them re- 
main in the water for some t'me, till by the plumpness and 
fairness of the fruits and root.--, it appears that the particles of 
frost arc extracted. This method has often been tried, and 
found to answer. 

TO PREVENT TEA-KETTLES COATING WITH LIME. 

Put the shell of an oyster in the tea-kettle, and the lime will 
adhere to it, instead of coating the sides. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

Beeswax half a pound, and a quarter of an ounce of alkanet 
root; melt together in a pipkin, until the former is well col- 
ored. Then add linseed oil and spirits of turpentine, of each 
half a gill ; strain through a piece of coarse muslin. Another : 
White wax two ounces, oil of turpentine one gill ; melt the 
wax, and gradually mix in the turpentine. 

• 

TO MAKE HARD WATER SOFT. 

Dissolve two tablespoons full of fresh quick-lime in two and 
a quarter gallons of water ; stir it into a barrel of hard water, 
and let it stand sixteen hours to settle. Chalk will be precipi- 
tated to the bottom, and the water will be perfectly soft and 
fit for use. 

ANOTHER. 

For every hundred gallons take half a pound of the best 
quick-lime; make it into a cream by the addition of water; 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 339 

then diffuse it through the hard water in a tank or reservoir, 
and allow the whole to stand; it will quickly be bright; the 
lime having united with the carbonate of lime, which makes 
the hard water, will be all deposited. This is a most beauti- 
ful application of the art of chemistry. 

HERBS FOR DRYING. 

The best state in which balm, thyme, sage, and other kitchen 
or medicinal herbs can be gathered for drying to preserve for 
winter use, is just as their flowers are opening ; at that period 
of growth they are found to contain more of the essential oil, on 
which their flavors depend, than at any other time. 



TO CLARIFY HONEY. 

Take six pounds of honey, a pound and three-quarters of 
water, two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, five ounces 
of coal, pulverized, washed, and well dried, the whites of three 
eggs, well beaten in three ounces of water for each pound of 
honey ; put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs into a copper 
vessel that will hold about one-third more ; let them boil for 
two minutes ; throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and 
continuing the boiling two minutes longer ; then take the 
sauce pan from the fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an 
hour, that the liquor may cool ; then take a new sieve — it must 
be well washed or it will impart a disagreeable taste — pass the 
honey through, taking care to filter the first drops twice, as 
they generally carry with them a portion of coal ; the syrup 
which still adheres to the coal and other materials may be sep- 
arated as follows : pour boiling water on them till they no 
longer retain any sweetness ; then put these waters together ; 
set them over a large fire to evaporate, until the syrup only 
remains. 



340 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO SEPARATE WAX FROM THE COMB. 

Tie the comb up in a linen or woolen bag ; place it in a 
kettle of cold water, and hang it over the fire. As the water 
heats, the wax melts and rises to the surface, while all the im- 
purities remain in the bag. It is well to put a few pebbles in 
the bag to keep it from floating. 

TO PREVENT INK FROM FREEZING. 

Instead of water use brandy, and it will never freeze. 

TO MAKE STAIR CARPETS LAST. 

Slips of paper should always be placed over the edges of 
the stairs, under the carpet. This will diminish the friction 
between the carpet and the boards underneath it. The strips 
should be in length within an inch or two of the width of the 
carpet, and four or five inches in breadth, as convenient. This 
simple expedient will preserve the carpet half as long again as 
it would last without the strips. 

COLD SOAP. 

Take one gallon of lye, strong enough to bear up an egg, to 
every pound of grease. Put the lye into your barrel, and strain 
the grease hot through a sieve or cullender. Stir three or four 
times a day for several days, or until it thickens. By tibia 
process you have soap clearer, and with much less trouble, 
than in the old way. 

SOAP. 

When preparing to make soap, add a little old soap to the 
lye and grease. This will greatly facilitate the labor of the 
making. . 

TO SEW NEW AND STIFF CLOTH EASILY. 

Pass a cake of white soap a few times over it, and the needle 
will penetrate easily. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 341 

TO CLEAN KNIVES. 

One of the best substances for cleaning knives and forks is 
charcoal, reduced to a fine powder, and applied in the same 
manner as brick dust is used. This is a recent and valuable 
disco very. 

CAUTIONS RELATIVE TO THE USE OF BRASS AND COPPER 
COOKING UTENSILS. 

Cleanness has been aptly styled the cardinal virtue of cooks. 
Food is more healthy, as well as palatable, cooked in a cleanly 
manner. Many lives have been lost in consequence of care- 
lessness in using brass, copper, and glazed earthen cooking 
utensils. The two first should be thoroughly cleansed with 
salt and hot vinegar before cooking in them, and no oily or 
acid substance, after being cooked, should be allowed to cool 
or remain in any of them. 

TO RELIEVE THE BREATH FROM ONIONS. 

A few fresh walnuts or raw leaves of parsley, eaten immedi- 
ately after dinner, will speedily remove that disagreeable taint 
which always infects the breath after partaking of onions or 
garlics. 

ESSENCES. 

An ounce of oil to one pint of alcohol, is about a fair pro- 
portion. Let them be well shaken together. 

BUTTER. 

In churning cream, add a lump of butter to the cream be- 
fore commencing, and the butter will come in two-thirds the 
time it would without. 

TO PRESERVE GAME LN HOT WEATHER. 

Game or poultry may be preserved for a long time, by ty- 
ing a string tight round the neck, so as to exclude the air, and 
by putting a piece of charcoal in the vent. 



342 DOMESTIC KOOKOMT. 

RUSSIAN METHOD OF PRESERVING FISH. 

When the Russians desire to keep fish perfectly fresh, to be 
carried a long journey in a hot climate, they dip them into hot 
beeswax, which acts like an air-tight covering. In this way 
they are taken to Malta, sweet, even in summer. 

STARCH. 

There is no better way for making nice starch for shirt bo- 
soms, than to boil it thoroughly after mixing, adding a little 
fine salt, and a few shavings of a star or spermaceti candle ; 
the star or pressed candle is quite as good as sperm. Let the 
starch boil at least ten minutes, and it will give a gloss if 
neatly ironed, fully satisfactory to the exquisite taste of a 
dandy. 

WHITE SATIN. 

Stone blue and flannel will make white satin look nearly 
new, especially if rubbed afterward with crumbs of bread. 

TO CLEAN GOLD OK SILVER LACE. 

Rub it gently with cotton wool, or a soft brush dipped in 
spirits of wine, taking care not to injure the silk beneath. 

TO REMOVE RUST FEOM FINELY FINISHED STEEL. 

Hub the rust with any kind of soft animal fat. and lay the ar- 
ticles by, wrapped in thick paper, for two or three days ; then, 
after cleaning off the grease with a piece of soft flannel, rub 
the spots well with powdered rotten stone and sweet-oil, after 
which the polish may be restored, by rubbing with powdered 
emery, on a soft leather; and the process may be finished with 
finely-powdered chalk or magnesia. 

BLACK BALL. 

Melt together, moderately, ten ounces of bayberry tallow, 
five ounces of beeswax, one ounce of mutton tallow. When 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 343 

•melted, add lamp or ivory black to give it a good black color. 
Stir the whole well together, and add, when taken from the fire, 
half a glass of rum. 

CEMENT FOR THE MOUTHS OF CORKED BOTTLES. 

Melt together a quarter of a pound of sealing-wax, the same 
quantity of rosin, a couple of ounces of beeswax. When it 
froths, stir it with a tallow candle. As soon as it melts, dip 
the mouths of the corked bottles into it. This is an excellent 
thing to exclude the air from such things as are injured by be- 
ing exposed to it. 

TO PEEVENT MOULD IN BOOKS, PASTE, INK, AND LEATHER. 

A few drops of oil of lavender will save a library from 
mould ; a single drop will save a pint of ink ; paste and leath- 
er may also be_ preserved. A little salt or white wine will 
preserve ink from mould. 

TO DESTROY ANTS. 

It so happened that a piece of camphor was laid in a drawer 
containing sugar, and which was sadly infested by ants. On 
opening it, a few days afterward, the bottom of the drawer was 
literally strewn with dead ants. The experiment was repeated 
with success — a small piece of camphor placed in the corner 
of the drawer being quite sufficient. Camphor dissolved in al- 
cohol, and diluted with water, might destroy them, if sprinkled 
on trees or walls, or if poured into their nests. 

ANOTHER. 

As a remedy against ants, procure a large sponge, wash 
it well, press it very dry ; by so doing it will leave the small 
cells open. Lay it on the shelf where they are most trouble- 
some, sprinkle some fine white sugar on the sponge, and two 
or three times a day drop it in scalding water, and you will 



344 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

slay them by the thousand, and soon rid the house of those 
troublesome insects. 

FOR KILLING RATS. 

Mix some unslacked lime with corn-meal, and place it where 
the rats may accidentally find it. They will soon become very 
thirsty, and, upon drinking water, the lime slacks and swells 
the rat till it kills him. In the Bahama Isles, sponge is fried 
and placed in their way ; they eat it, drink, swell, burst, and 
die. Lime and meal should be, of the first one part and meal 
two parts, well mixed together, and dry. 

TO KEEP BUGS FROM VINES. 

Take the feathers from a hen's wing, and dip them in spirits 
of turpentine, and stick one or two in a hill, and after every 
shower they will want to be dipped over again. 

SOAP. 

Soap, as well as candles, is improved by keeping. Buy your 
store for the winter as early as September, and cut the large 
bars of soap into pieces, to dry. It goes farther, and is better. 

ISINGLASS, TO CLARIFY. 

Take an ounce and a half of the best isinglass, cut it into pie- 
ces, and wash them in warm water several times ; put the ising- 
lass into a stewpan with five glasses of filtered water, set it on 
the fire, and as soon as it boils set it at the side of the stove so 
as to keep up the boiling; take off the scum as soon as it rises, 
and when the whole is reduced to three-quarters, strain it 
through a cloth into a basin for use. 

IRON SPOTS ON MARBLE. 
To remove iron spots from marble, mix equal quantities of 
spirit of vitriol and lemon juice ; shake it well,wct the spots 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 345 

with the mixture, and in a few minutes rub with a soft linen, 
until they are completely effaced. 

INK SPOTS. 

As soon as the accident happens, wet the place with juice of 
sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and the best white hard soap. 
Or the cloth may be soaked in sweet milk. 

OFFENSIVE SMELLS. 

One of the best and most pleasant disinfectants is coffee ; 
the simplest way to use it is to pound the well-dried raw beans 
in a mortar and strew the powder over a moderately-heated 
iron plate. The simple traversing of the house with a roaster 
containing freshly roasted coffee will clear it of offensive smells. 

TO PEESEEVE EGGS. 

Apply with a brush a solution of gum Arabic to the shells, 
or immerse the eggs therein ; let them dry, and afterwards 
pack them in dry charcoal dust; this prevents their being af- 
fected by any alterations of temperature. Or, take a stone jar 
or firkin, and put in a layer of salt half an inch deep; insert 
your eggs on the small end, and cover each layer of eggs with 
salt. If the eggs are fresh when packed, and put into a cool, 
dry place, they will keep perfectly good until the following 
summer. 

Another way is to pack as before, and pour over them melt- 
ed lard. In this they will keep good for a long time. When 
taken out for use, put them in warm water, which will melt 
off the lard, and which may be used again, ad infinitum. 

TO PEEFUME LINEN. 

Rose leaves, dried in the shade or at about four feet from a 

stove, one pound ; of cloves, caraway seeds, and allspice, of 

each one ounce; pound in a mortar, or grind in a mill; dried 
O* 



346 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

salt a quarter of a pound; mix all these together, aud put the 
compound in little bags. 

ANOTHER. 

Take cloves, cedar, and rhubarb, each one ounce ; pulver- 
ize, and sprinkle it in the chest or drawer. It will create a 
beautiful scent, and prevent moths. 

RATS AND Mid . 

The asphodel is useful in driving away rats and mice, which 
have such an antipathy to this plant that if their holes be stop- 
ped up with it they will rather die than pass where it has been 
placed. 

TO RESTORE STALE BEEE. 

To about a quart of stale beer put half a teaspoon full of 
salt of wormwood ; this will restore the beer and make it sparkle 
when poured into a glass, like bottled porter. 

RICE MILK. 

Take some rice — one ounce for each person — wash it well 
in warm water, then put it in boiling milk, and boil it for two 
or three hours over a slow fire, stirring often, adding salt or 
sugar to liking, and cinnamon. 

TO TAKE MAINS OUT OF SILKS. 

Mix together in a phial two ounces of essence of lemon, and 
one ounce of oil of turpentine. 

Grease and other spots in silks are to be rubbed gently with 
a linen rag dipped in the above composition. 

TO EXTRACT GREASE SPOTS FROM SILKS, MUSLINS, ETC. 

Scrape French chalk, put it on the grease spot, and hold it 
near the fire, or over a warm iron or water-plate filled with 
boiling water ; the grease will melt, and the French chalk ab- 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. f. j * 

sorb it, brush or rub it off; repeat if necessary. If you have 
not French chalk, magnesia will effectually remove grease spots 
from silk, on rubbing it in well ; and, after standing a while, 
apply a piece of soft brown paper to the wrong side, on which 
press a warm iron gently, and what grease is not absorbed by 
the paper can be removed by washing the spot carefully with 
cold water. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR MILK OR CREAM. 

Beat up the whole of a fresh egg in a basin, and then pour 
boiling tea over it gradually, to prevent its curdling ; it is diffi- 
cult from the taste to distinguish it from rich cream. 

TO TAKE MILK FROM CREAM. 

Use a syphon, and draw off the milk from beneath the sur- 
face of the cream, and thus completely separate the two liquids 
by the simplest means and with the least possible trouble. 

TO PRESERVE MILK. 

Put a spoon full of horseradish into a pan of milk, and it will 
remain sweet for several days, either in the open air or in a 
cellar, while other milk will sour. 

VENTILATION OF HOUSES. 

The great attention paid to making houses close and warm, 
though apparently well adapted to the comfort of the inhabi- 
tants, is by no means favorable to the health, unless care be 
taken every day to admit fresh air by the windows. Some- 
times it may be proper to make use of what is called pumping 
the room, or moving the door backward and forward for some 
minutes together. The practice of making the beds early in 
the day, however it may suit convenience or delicacy, is, doubt- 
less, improper. It would be much better to turn them down, 
and expose them to the influence of the air admitted by the 
windows. 



:. t« DOMESTIC ECONOMV. 

Fur many persons to sleep in one room, as in the ward of a 
hospital, is very hurtful to health ; and it is scarcely a less in- 
jurious custom, though often practiced by those who have 
splendid houses, for two or more to sleep in a small apartment, 
especially if it be very close. Flues and opening for ventila- 
tion should always be attended to in building. 

COMPOSITION TO MAKE COLORED DRAWINGS AND PRINTS 
RESEMBLE PAINTINGS LN OIL. 

Take of Canada balsam, one ounce ; spirits of turpentine, two 
ounces; mix them together. Before this composition is ap- 
plied, the drawing or print should be sized with a solution of 
isinglass in water, and when dry, apply the varnish with a camel's 
hair brush, 

A YARNISH TO COLOR BASKETS. 

Take either red, black, or white sealing wax, whichever color 
you wish to make ; to every two ounces of sealing wax, add 
one ounce of spirits of wine ; pound the wax fine, then sift it 
through a fine lawn sieve, till you have made it extremely fine : 
put it into a large pfiial with the spirits of wine, shake it, let it 
stand near the fire forty-eight hours, shaking it often ; then, 
with a little, brush the baskets all over with it ; let them dry, 
and do them over a second time. 

COURT PLASTER. 

Bruise a sufficient quantity of fish glue, and let it soak for 
twenty-four hours in a little warm water ; expose it to heat 
over the fire, to dissipate the greater part of the water, and sup- 
ply its place by colorless brandy, which will mix the gelatine 
of the glue. Strain the whole through a piece of open linen ; 
on cooling, it will form a trembling jelly. 

Now extend a piece of black silk on a wooden frame, and 
fix it in that position by means of tacks, or pack thread. Then 
with a brush made of badger's hair, apply the glue, after it has 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 349 

been exposed to a gentle heat to render it liquid. When this 
stratum is dry, which will soon be the case, apply a second, 
and then a third, if necessary, to give the plaster a certain thick- 
ness ; as soon as the whole is dry, cover it with two or three 
strata of a strong tincture of balsam of Peru. 

This is the real English court plaster ; it is pliable, and never 
breaks, characters which distinguish it from so many other 
preparations sold under the same name. 

TO RENEW OLD BREAD AND CAKE. 

Fill a bread steamer about half full of water, and lay the 
dry bread on it, and set it oii the fire, where it will steam the 
bread from half to three-quarters of an hour ; then wrap the 
bread in a towel, and let it remain till dry. In this way, bread 
that is old and dry may be made moist and good. When a steam- 
er cannot be procured, soak the bread in cold water till it has ab- 
sorbed sufficient water to be moist inside — then put it in a bake 
pan, without any cover, and heat it very hot. If broken pieces 
of bread are put in the oven, five or six hours after baking, and 
rusked, they will keep good a long time. Sour, heavy bread, 
treated in this manner, will make very decent cakes and pud- 
dings, provided there is enough saleratus used in making them 
to correct the acidity of the bread. Rich cake, that has wine 
or brandy in it, will remain good in cold weather several 
months, if it is kept in a cool, dry place. The day in which it 
is to be eaten, put it in a cake pan, and set it in a bake pan 
that has half a pint of water in it — set on the bake pan cover, 
and let the cake bake till, it is heated very hot. Let it get 
cold before cutting it. 

TO PRESERVE CHEESE FROM LNSECTS. 

Cover the cheese, while whole, with a paste made of wheat 
flour ; then wrap a cloth round it, and cover it with the paste. 



o50 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

Keep the cheese in a cool, dry place. Cheese that has skip- 
pers in it, if kept till cold weather, will be freed from them. 

BLUE INK. 

Dissolve one ounce of gum Arabic in a pint of water. In a 
part of this gum- water grind a small quantity of Prussian blue ; 
you may thus bring it to any depth of color you wish. Indigo 
will answer, though not so nice. 

RED LNK. 

Take of the raspings of Brazil wood a quarter of a poun I, 
and infuse them two or three days in vinegar, which should be 
colorless where it can be so procured. Boil the infusion an 
hour over a gentle fire, and afterward filter it, while hot, through 
paper laid in an earthenware cullender. Put it again over the 
fire, and dissolve in it, first half an ounce of gum Arabic, and 
afterward of alum and white sugar, each half an ounce. Care 
should be taken that the Brazil wood be not adulterated with 
the Brasiletto or Campeachy wood. 

LNDELIBLE INK. 

To four drachms of lunar caustic in four ounces of water, 
add sixty drops of nut galls made strong by being pulverized 
and steeped in soft water. The mordant which is to be ap- 
plied to the cloth before writing, is composed of one ounce of 
pearlash dissolved in four ounces of water, with a little gum 
Arabic dissolved in it. Wet the spot with this, dry and iron 
the cloth, then write. 

HARD SOAP. 

Take eight pounds of soft soap — if you wish it nice, use that 
made of olive oil — boil it two hours with six pounds of common 
salt, and it will make five pounds of hard soap. Add a little 
rosin when you melt it over, and if you wish it nice, scent it 
with fragrant <>:!. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 351 

TO MAKE CALICOES WASH WELL. 

Infuse three gills of salt in four quarts of boiling water, and 
put the calicoes in while hot, and leave them till cold ; in this 
way the colors are rendered permanent, and will not fade by 
subsequent washing. So says a lady who has frequently made 
the experiment herself. Nothing can be cheaper or quicker 
done. 

FIRE AND WATER PROOF CEMENT. 

To half a pint of milk, put an equal quantity of vinegar, in 
order to curdle it ; then separate the curd and the whey, and 
mix the whey with four or five eggs, beating the whole well togeth- 
er. When it is well mixed, add a little quicklime through the 
sieve, until it has acquired the consistence of paste. With this 
cement, broken vessels and cracks of all kinds maybe mended. 
It dries quickly, and resists the action of the water, as well a3 
of a considerable degree of fire. 

TO PREVENT THE RAVAGES OF MOTHS. 

The ravages of the woolen moth may be prevented by the 
use of tobacco, camphor, red pepper, turpentine, and, perhaps, 
the most agreeable for wearing apparel, a mixture of one ounce 
of cloves, one ounce of rhubarb, and one ounce of cedar sha- 
vings, tied up in a bag, and kept in the box or drawer. If the 
substance be dry, scatter it in the folds of the cloth, carpet, blan- 
kets, or furs ; if liquid, sprinkle it freely in the boxes, or on the 
cloth or wrapper, laid over and around it. 

THE RED ANT. 

Where they are troublesome, it is said that sage leaves, fresh 
picked, will keep them away, if scattered in places you wish to 
protect. 

UTILITY OF NETTLES. 

Steel dipped in the juice of the nettle becomes flexible*, lint 
dipped in nettle juice put up the nostril has been known to stay 



352 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

the bleeding of the nose, when other remedies have failed ; and 
fourteen or fifteen of the seeds ground into powder and taken 
daily, will cure the swelling in the neck known by the name 
of goitre, without in any way injuring the general system. 

USEFUL KNIFE-BO AltD. 

Cover a common knife-board with buffleather on which are 
put emery one part, crocus martis three parts, in very fine pow- 
der, mixed into a thick paste with a little lard or sweet oil, and 
spread on the leather to the thickness of a shilling. This meth- 
od gives a for superior edge and polish to the knife than the 
common practice of using brickdust on aboard. 

TO PRESERVE FLO WEES IN WATER. 

Mix a little carbonate of soda with the water, and it will pre- 
serve the flowers for a fortnight. Common saltpetre is also a 
good preservative. 

TO KEEP A STOVE BEIGHT. 
Make a weak alum-water, and mix your British luster with 
it, perhaps two teaspoons full to a gill of alum-water ; let the 
stove be cold, brush it with the mixture, then take a dry brush, 
and rub the stove till it is perfectly dry. Should any part, be- 
fore polishing, be so dry as to look gray, moisten it with a wet 
brush, and proceed as before said. Warm water will do, if 
you have no alum. 

TO WHITEN THE HANDS. 

Take a wine-glass full of eau de cologne, and another of lem- 
on juice; then scrape two cakes of brown Windsor soap, or 
the same quantity of pure white soap, to a powder, and mix 
well in a mould. When hard, it will be excellent for whiten- 
ing the hands. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 353 

TO REMOTE MARKS FROM A TABLE. 

If a whitish mark is left on a table, by carelessly setting on a 
pitcher of boiling water, or a hot dish, pour some lamp oil on 
the spot, and rub it hard with a soft cloth. Then pour on a lit- 
tle spirits of wine or cologne water, and rub it dry with anoth- 
er cloth. The white mark will thus disappear, and the table 
look as well as ever. 

TO CLEAN BRASS ORNAMENTS. 

Brass ornaments, that have not been gilt or lacquered, may 
be cleaned, and a very brilliant color given to them, by wash- 
ing them with alum boiled in strong lye, in the proportion of 
an ounce to a pint, and afterward rubbing them with a strong 
tripoli. 

TO MEND CROCKERY WARE. 

Wash the vessel gently and thoroughly with soap and wa- 
ter ; rinse with soft water, and let it dry without wiping. The 
pieces should then be fitted together as soon as possible, and 
kept in their places by winding firmly over the bowl or dish a 
strong thread, or a piece of twine ; put the broken article into 
a boiler, an inch or two larger each way, and fill them both 
with sweet, cold, skimmed milk ; set the boiler over the fire, 
and boil for ten or fifteen minutes; take it off, and let it stand 
till quite cold, when the string, or twine, may be cut, and the 
article washed in warm water. 

TO PETRIFY WOOD. 

Wood, it is said, may be petrified by the following process : 
Take equal quantities of gem salt, rock alum, white vinegar, 
calx, and pebble powder. Mix all these ingredients together, 
and there will be an ebullition. When this subsides, throw in 
the wood, or any other porous matter, and let it soak four or 
five days, at the end of which time the petrifaction will be 
complete. 

23 



354 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



TO STOP A LEAK. 
Take yellow soap and beat it up thick with whiting, and 
rub it into the leak ; it will be found to stop it when other 
things have failed. 

PASTE. 

Take two tablespoons full of flour and stir it into a half pint 
of cold water until the lumps are all broken, then pour this in- 
to a pint of boiling water, stirring while doing so ; afterward 
let it boil up once or twice, and take off. 

CHEAP LEMON FLAVOR. 

When lemons are plenty procure a quantity, cut them in- 
to thin slices and lay them on plates to dry in the oven ; when 
dry, put them into a tight bag, or close vessel, in the store- 
room, where they are both handy and agreeable for almost 
anything. 

TO CLEAN ELD GLOVES. 

First see that your hands are clean, then put on your gloves, 
and wash them as though you were washing your hands, in a 
basin of turpentine, until quite clean ; hang them up in a warm 
place, or where there is a good current of air, which will carry 
off the smell of the turpentine. This method was brought 
from Paris, and many thousand dollars have been made by it. 

ANOTHER. 

Take a piece of flannel, moisten it with a little milk, rub it 
on a cake of nice hard soap, and then apply it to the soiled 
part of the glove. As soon as you have removed the dirt, rub 
the kid with a dry piece of flannel. Care must be taken not 
to make the glove too wet. 

TO WASH WOOLENS. 

To prevent shrinking, all descriptions of woolen goods 
should be washed in very hoi wrater, with soap ; and as soon 



MISCELLANEOUS HECIPES. 355 

as the article is cleansed, immerse it in cold water ; then let 
it be hung up to be dried. 

A VARNISH TO PREVENT THE RAYS OF THE SUN FROM PASS- 
ING THROUGH WINDOW OR OTHER GLASS. 

Pound gum tragacanth into powder, and put it to dissolve 
for twenty-four hours in whites of eggs, well beaten. Lay a 
coat of this on your glass with a soft brush, and let it dry. 

TO GIVE LUSTER TO SILVER. 

Dissolve a quantity of alum in water, so as to make pretty 
strong brine, which must be skimmed very carefully; add 
some soap to it, and when you wish to use it, dip a piece of 
linen rag in it, and rub over the plate. 

WASH-LEATHER UNDER-WAISTCOATS. 

A waistcoat of this material, worn over flannel, will be found, 
especially in the country, to be very comfortable, and a pre- 
servative against the consequences of sudden exposures in our 
changeable climate. In many cases it will supersede the ne- 
cessity of, and prove a more effective barrier against cold, than 
an overcoat. 

GERMAN SILVER. 

Few are aware of the poisonous qualities of this compound. 
It is good for a variety of uses, but should never be used for 
spoons or vessels for cooking. It is composed of copper, ar- 
senic, and nickel. It is oxydized by acids, and acts in the stom- 
ach as a slow but sure poison. 

GENUINE WHNDSOR SOAP. 

To make this famous soap for washing the hands, shaving, 
&c, nothing more is necessary than to slice the best white 
soap as thin as possible; melt it in a stew pan over a slow 



356 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

fire ; scent it well with oil of caraway, and then pour it into a 
frame or mould, made for that purpose, or a small drawer, 
adapted in size and form to the quantity. When it has stood 
three or four days in a dry situation, cut it into square pieces, 
and it is ready for use. By this simple mode, substituting any 
more favorite scent for that of caraway, all persons may suil 
themselves with a good perfumed soap, at the most trifling 
expense. 

TO BLEACH LINEN. 

Mix common bleaching powder, in the proportion of one 
pound to a gallon of water ; stir it occasionally for three days ; 
let it settle, and pour it off clear. Then make a lye of one 
pound of soda to a gallon of boiling soft water, in which soak 
the linen for twelve hours, and boil it half an hour ; next, soak 
it in the bleaching liquor, made as above ; and, lastly, wash it 
in the usual manner. 

Discolored linen or muslin may be restored, by putting a 
portion of bleaching liquor into the tub wherein the articles are 
soaking. 

TO RESTORE LLNEN THAT HAS LONG BEEN STALLED. 

Rub the stains on each side with wet brown soap. Mix 
some starch to a thick paste with cold water, and spread it 
over the soaped places. Then expose the linen to the sun and 
air ; and, if the stains have not disappeared in three or four 
days, rub off the mixture, and repeat the process with fresh 
soap and starch. Afterward dry it; wet it with cold water, 
and put it in the wash. 

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MAHOGANY. 

Spirits of salts six parts, salts of lemon one part. Mix, 
then drop a little on the stains, and rub them till they dis- 
appear. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 357 

rO RESTORE COLORS TAKEN OUT BY ACIDS. 

Sal- volatile or hartshorn will restore colors taken out by 
acids. Tt will not harm the garment. 

TO MAKE WHITEWASH THAT WILL NOT RUB OFF. 

Mix up half a pail full of lime and water, ready to put on 
the wall ; then take one gill of flour and mix it with the wa- 
ter ; then pour on it boiling water sufficient to thicken it; then 
pour it, while hot, into the whitewash ; stir it all well together, 
and it is ready for use. 

ANOTHER RECIPE FOR WHITEWASHING. 

Take two quarts of newly burnt lime — the whitest pieces 
are the best ; put them into a pail or kettle ; pour boiling wa- 
ter on it, and stir it often ; keep adding hot water to keep it 
fluid until nearly done slacking ; then take a teacup full of rice, 
and boil it to a jelly ; filter through linen or cotton cloth, add- 
ing a part of it first, the remainder while using. But, if you 
wish for yellow wash, take horseradish leaves, half a pail full ; 
boil them as if for greens ; filter, and add the juice to the fore- 
going composition, and it will be a beautiful yellow. 

OUT-HOUSES AND CELLARS. 

If these have not been recently cleansed, have them thor- 
oughly cleaned out and whitewashed. A dirty cellar is an 
abomination, and the fruitful source of many diseases. Let 
all your out-buildings have a thorough overhauling and re- 
pairing. 

CURLING FLUID FOR THE HAIR. 

Melt a piece of white beeswax about the size of a filbert 
kernel or a large pea, in one ounce of olive oil ; to this add one 
or two drops of otto of roses, or any other perfume. 



358 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO DRIVE AWAY BEDBUGS. 

Take best gum camphor, in lumps as large as a walnut ; 
put each lump in a thin gauze bag, and suspend them to the 
bedoord, or other parts of the bedstead ; renew the camphor 
when it has lost its strength. If there are, crevices in the wall 
or joints of the bedstead they may be filled with a mixture of 
camphor and hard soap. This remedy, when faithfully ap- 
plied, has always proved effectual. 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 

Ground black pepper and moist sugar, intimately mixed in 
equal quantities, and diluted with milk, placed in saucers, add- 
ing fresh milk, and stirring the mixure as often as necessary. 

TO DRIVE AWAY FLEAS. 

Sprinkle about the bed a few drops of the oil of lavender, 
and the fleas will soon disappear. 

TO POLISH MAHOGANY FURXITERE. 

Rub it with cold, drawn linseed oil, and polish by rubbing 
with a clean, dry cloth, after wiping the oil from the furniture. 
Do this once a week, and your mahogany tables will be so 
finely polished that hot water will not injure them. The rea- 
son is this — linseed oil hardens when exposed to the air. and 
when it has filled all the pores of the wood, the surface be- 
comes hard and smooth, like glass. 

TO RENDER BOOTS AND SHOES WATER-PROOF. 

Take one pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow wax. two 
ounces of spirits of turpentine, and half an ounce of Burgundy 
pitch; melt them over a slow fire, and thoroughly incorporate 
them by stirring. Lay this mixture on the new shoes or boots, 
either in the sun or at some distance from the fire, with a 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 359 

sponge or brush, and repeat the operation as often as they 
become dry, until they are fully saturated. The shoes and 
boots thus prepared ought not to be worn until the leather has 
become perfectly dry and elastic. They will then be found 
impervious to moisture, and their durability will be increased. 



TO KILL WEEDS IN GRAVEL AND BRICK WALKS. 

Keep them moist with brine a week in the spring, and 
three or four days in the fall, and it will prevent their growing. 



TO TEMPER EARTHEN WARE. 

When new, and before used for baking, put it in cold wa- 
ter to cover, and heat it gradually until the water boils. It is 
less likely to crack. 

TO CLEAN PAINT THAT IS NOT TARNISHED. 

Take a flannel, and squeeze nearly dry out of warm water, 
and dip in a little whiting ; apply to the paint, and with a lit- 
tle rubbing it will instantly remove grease, smoke, or other 
soil. Wash with warm water, and rub dry with a soft cloth. 
It will not injure the most delicate color, and makes it look as 
well as new ; besides, it preserves the paint much longer than 
if cleaned with soap and water. 

TO REMOVE LIME" SPOTS. 

Lime spots on woolen clothes may be completely removed 
by strong vinegar. The vinegar effectually neutralizes the 
lime, but does not generally affect the color of the cloth. 
Dark cloth, the color of which has been completely destroyed, 
in spots six inches square, has thus had its original color per- 
fectly restored. 



360 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO TAKE OUT FRUIT SPOIS. 

Wet the stain without dipping, and hold the part over a 
lighted brimstone match, at a proper distance. The sulphur- 
ous gas soon causes the spots to disappear. 

TO CLEAN ELACK SILKS. 

To bullock's gall add boiling water sufficient to make it 
warm, and with a clean sponge rub the silk well on both sides ; 
squeeze it well out, and proceed again in like manner. Rinse 
it in spring water, and change the water till perfectly clean ; 
dry in the air, and pin it on a table ; but first dip the sponge 
in glue-water, and rub it on the wrong side ; then dry it be- 
fore the fire. 

TO TAKE MILDEW OUT OF LINEN. 

Rub the mildewed article well with soap ; then scrape upon 
it some fine chalk, letting that be rubbed well into the cloth ; 
lay it on the grass ; as it dries, wet it a little, and the mildew 
will soon disappear. 

TO CLEAN SILKS. 

A quarter of a pound of soft soap, a teaspoon full of brandy, 
and a pint of gin ; mix all well together ; with a sponge or 
flannel spread the mixture on each side of the silk, without 
creasing it. Wash it in two or three pails of cold water, and 
iron on the wrong side when rather wet. 

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM SILKS. 

Stains produced by vinegar, lemon juice, oil of vitriol, or 
other sharp corrosives, may often be removed from silks by 
mixing a little pearlash with soap-lather, and passing the silk 
through them. Spirits of hartshorn will also often restore the 
color. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 361 

TO RAISE THE SURFACE OR PILE OF VELVET WHEN PRESSED 

DOWN. 

Warm a smoothing iron moderately, and cover it with a 
wet cloth, and hold it under the velvet; the vapor arising 
from the heated cloth will raise the pile of the velvet, with the 
assistance of a rush whisk. 

TO REMOVE GREASE OR OIL PAINT FROM CLOTH. 

Moisten it with a few drops of concentrated solution of 
subcarbonate of potash ; rub the spot between the fingers, and 
then wash it with a little warm water. 

ANOTHER WAY. , 

To remove oil paint, rub the cloth with a bit of flannel 
dipped in spirits of wine or turpentine. 

TO STAIN HARPS, VIOLINS, OR ANY OTHER. MUSICAL 
INSTRUMENT. 

A Crimson Stain. Take one pound of ground Brazil and 
boil it in three quarts of water for an hour; stain it, and add 
half an ounce of cochineal ; boil it again for half an hour gen- 
tly, and it will be fit for use. If you would have it of the scar- 
let tint, boil half an ounce of saffron in a quart of water, and 
pass over the work previous to the red stain. Observe, the 
work must be very clean, and of air- wood or good syca- 
more, without blemish. When varnished it will look very 
rich. * 

For a Purple Slain. Take a pound of chip-logwood, to 
which put three quarts of water ; boil it well for an hour ; add 
four ounces of pearlash and two ounces of indigo, pounded, and 
) pu will have a good purple. 

Jllue Stain. Take a pound of oil of vitriol in a glass bot- 
tle, in which put four ounces of indigo, and proceed as before 
directed in dyeing. 
P 



362 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

Green Stain. Take three pints of strong vinegar, to which 
put four ounces of the best verdigris, ground fine, half an ounce 
of sap-green, and half an ounce of indigo. 

TO POLISH VARNISHED FURNITURE. 

Take two pounds of tripoli, powdered ; put it in an earthen 
pot, with water to cover ; then take a piece of white flannel ; 
lay it over a piece of cork or rubber, and proceed to polish 
the varnish, always wetting it with the tripoli and water. It 
will be known when the process is finished, by wiping a part 
of the work with a sponge, and observing whether there is a 
fair, even gloss. When this is the case, take a bit of mutton 
suet and fine flour, and clean the work. 

JAPANESE CEMENT OR RICE GLUE. 

This cement is made by mixing rice flour intimately with 
cold water, and then gently boiling it ; it is beautifully white, 
and dries almost transparent. Papers pasted together by 
means of this cement will sooner separate in their own sub- 
stance than at the joining, which makes it useful in the prepara- 
tion of curious paper articles, as tea-trays, ladies' dressing-boxes, 
and other articles that require layers of paper to be cemented 
together. 

TO RENDER CLOTH WIND AND RAIN PROOF. 

Boil two pounds of turpentine and one pound of litharge 
in powder, and two or three pints of linseed oil. The article 
is to be brushed over and dried in the sun. 

PERFUMED BAGS FOR DRAWERS. 

Cut, slice, and mix well together, in the state of very gross 
powder, the following ingredients : Two ounces of yellow 
saunders, two ouncos of coriander seeds, two ounces of orris 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 3G3 

root, two ounces of calamus aromaticus, two ounces of cloves, 
two ounces of cinnamon bark, two ounces of dried rose leaves, 
two ounces of lavender flowers, and one pound of oak sha- 
vings. When properly mixed, stuff the above into small linen 
bags, which place in drawers, wardrobes, &c, which are musty 
or liable to become so. 

TO MAKE TOUGH BEEF TENDER. 

To those who have worn down their teeth in masticating 
poor, old, tough cow beef, we will say that carbonate of soda 
will be found a remedy for the evil. Cut your steaks, the 
day before using, into slices about two inches thick ; rub over 
them a small quantity of soda ; wash off next morning ; cut 
it into suitable thickness, and cook to notion. The same pro- 
cess will answer for fowls, legs of mutton, &c. Try it, all 
who love delicious, tender dishes of meat. 

TO ESCAPE FROM, OK GO INTO A HOUSE ON FLRE. 

Creep or crawl with your face near the ground, and although 
the room be full of smoke to suffocation, yet near the floor 
the air is pure, and may be breathed with safety. The best 
escape from upper windows is a knotted rope, but if a leap is 
unavoidable, then a bed should be thrown out first, or beds pre- 
pared for the purpose. 

TO EXTINGUISH A HOUSE ON FIRE. 

Shut the doors and windows, throw water on the fire in the 
grate, and then stop up the bottom of the chimney. 

TO PURIFY WATER FOR DRINKING. 

Filter river water through a sponge, more or less com- 
pressed, instead of stone or sand, by which the water is not 
only rendered more clear, but wholesome. Powder of char- 



364 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

coal should be added to the sponge when the water is foul, or 
fetid. 

TO TURIFY KIYER, OR MUDDY WATER. 

Dissolve half an ounce of alum in a pint of warm water, 
and stirring it about in a puncheon of water from the river, all 
the impurities will soon settle to the bottom, and in a day or 
two it will become quite clear. 

TO CLEAN LOOKING-GLASSES. 

Keep, for this purpose, a piece of sponge, a cloth, and a silk 
handkerchief, all entirely free from dirt, as the least grit will 
scratch the fine surface of the glass. First, sponge it with a 
little spirits of wine, or gin and water, so as to clean off all 
spots ; then dust over it powder-blue, tied in muslin ; rub it 
lightly and quickly off with a cloth, and finish by rubbing it 
with a silk handkerchief. Be careful not to rub the edges of 
the frames. 

TO PRESERVE GILDING, AND CLEAN IT. 

It is impossible to prevent flies from staining the gilding 
without covering it; before which, blow off the light dust, and 
pass a feather or clean brush over it, but never touch it with 
water; then, with strips of paper, or rather gauze, cover the 
frames of your glasses, and do not remove till the flies are 
gone. 

Linen takes off the gilding and deadens its brightness ; it 
should, therefore, never be used for wiping it. 

A good preventive against flies is, to boil three or four leeks 
in a pint of water, and then with a gilding brush wash over 
the glasses and frames with the liquid, and the flies will not go 
near the articles so washed. This will not injure the frames 
in the least. Stains or spots may be removed by gently wi- 
ping them with cotton dipped in sweet oil. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. . 3<V) 

TO CLEAN LAMPS. 

Bronzed lamps should be wiped carefully ; if oil be fre- 
quently spilled over them, it will cause the bronzing to be 
rubbed off sooner than it would disappear by wear. Brass 
lamps are best cleaned with crocus, or rotten stone and sweet 
oil. Lacquered lamps may be washed with soap and water, 
but should not be touched with acid or very strong lye, else 
the lacquer will soon come off. When lamps are foul inside, 
wash them with potash and water, rinse them well, set them 
before the fire, and be sure they are dry before oil is again put 
into them. 

Lamps will have a less disagreeable smell, if, before using, 
the cottons be dipped in hot vinegar, and dried. 

To clean ground glass shades, wash the inside carefully with 
weak soap and water, lukewarm, rub them very lightly, and 
dry with a soft cloth. 

DIRECTIONS FOR CARPETS. 
Carpets should be taken up and shook thoroughly, if in con- 
stant use, as often as three or four times in a year, as the dirt 
that collects underneath them wears them out very fast. Straw 
kept under carpets, will make them wear much longer, as the 
dirt will sift through, and keep it from grinding out. Carpets 
should be taken up as often as once a year, even if not much 
used, as there is danger of moths getting into them. If there 
is any appearance of moths in carpets when they are taken up, 
sprinkle tobacco or black pepper on the floor before the car- 
pets are put down, and let it remain after they are laid down. 
When the dust is well shaken out of carpets, if there are any 
grease spots on them, grate on potter's clay very thick, cover 
them with a brown paper, and set on a warm iron. It will be 
necessary to repeat this piocess several times to get out all the 
grease. If the carpets are so much soiled as to require clean- 
ing all over, after the dirt has been shaken out, spread them 



366 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

on a clean floor, and rub on them, with a new broom, pared 
and grated raw potatoes. Let the carpets remain till perfectly 
dry before walking on them. 

TO KEEP SILK. 

Silk articles should not be kept folded in w r hite paper, as the 
chloride of lime used in bleaching the paper, will probably 
impair the color of the silk. Brown or blue paper is better ; 
the yellowish, smooth India paper is best of all. Silks in- 
tended for dresses should not be kept long in the house before 
they are made up, as lying in the folds will have a tendency 
to impair its durability by causing it to cut or split, particu- 
larly if the silk has been thickened by gum. 

Thread lace vails are very easily cut ; satin and velvet be- 
ing soft, are not very easily cut. But dresses of velvet should 
not be laid by with any weight above them ; if the nap of a 
thin velvet be laid down, it is not possible to raise it up again. 
Hard silk should never be wrinkled, because the thread is easily 
broken in the crease, and it never can be rectified. The way 
to take the wrinkles out of silk scarfs and handkerchiefs is, to 
moisten the surface evenly with a sponge and some weak glue, 
and then pin the silk with some toilet pins around the shelves 
on a mattress or feather bed, taking pains to draw out the silk 
as tight as possible. When dry, the wrinkles will have disap- 
peared. The reason of this is obvious to every person. It is 
a nice job to dress light colored silk, and few should try it. 
Some silk articles should be moistened with weak glue or gum 
water, and the wrinkles ironed out by a hot flat-iron on the 
wrong side. 

TO SWEEP CAKPETS. 

Before sweeping a carpet, sprinkle over it a few hands full 
of waste tea leaves. A stiff hair broom or brush should be 
used, unless the carpet be very dirty, when a whisk or carpet. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 367 

broom should be used first, followed by another made of hair 
to take off the loose dirt. The frequent use of a stiff broom 
soon injures the beauty of the best carpet. An ordinary 
clothes' brush is best adapted to superior carpets. 

CHEAP CARPETING. 

Sew together strips of the cheapest cotton cloth, of the size 
of the room, and tack the edges to the floor. Then paper the 
cloth as you would the sides of a room, with any sort of room 
paper. After being well dried, give it two coats of varnish, 
and your carpet is finished. It can be washed like carpets, 
without injury, retains its gloss, and, on chambers or sleeping 
rooms, where it will not meet rough usage, will last for two 
years, as good as new. 

TO REFASTEN THE LOOSE HANDLES OF KNIVES AND FORKS. 

Make a cement of common brick dust and rosin, melted to- 
gether. Seal engravers understand this recipe. 

NIGHT CHAIRS. 

For the night chair of sick persons, put within the vessel 
half a pound of quick lime, half an ounce of powdered sal- 
ammoniac, and water one pint ; this will prevent any disagree- 
able odor. 

t 

TEA. 

M. Laysel, a French chemist, says that he discovered that, 
by grinding tea in the same manner as coffee, before infusion, 
the quantity of exhilirating fluid obtained, is nearly doubled. 
The experiment is worth trying. 

swallow's nest. 

To prevent swallows building under the eaves, or in window 
corners, rub the places with oil or soft soap. 



368 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

• BORAX WASHING RECIPE. 

Our method is as follows : To every pound of hard soap, 
add from one-half to three-quarters of an ounce of common 
borax, somewhat pulverized, and then put it in the soap cut up 
in thin pieces. Keep them hot — but not boiling — for two 
or three hours, or until the whole is well dissolved, and then 
set aside to cool, when a solid mass will be formed. If the 
vessel is set upon the warm stove at night, the operation will 
be completed in the morning, though we think it better to stir 
the mass before it cools. 

The night before washing, rub the clothes where most soiled, 
with soap, and soak in water till morning. This soap, which 
has been more than doubled in quantity, will go quite as far, 
bulk for bulk, as the original, thus saving at least one-half. 
The boiling and washing are to be performed in the usual man- 
ner ; but it will be found that the labor of rubbing is dimin- 
ished three-fourths, while the usual caustic or eating effect of 
the soap is greatly lessened ; and the hands will retain a pe- 
culiarly soft and silky feeling, even after a large washing. The 
preparation is adapted to all kinds of fabrics, colored or uncol- 
ored, including flannels, and it is thought to increase their white- 
ness. By using this preparation, with the previous soaking 
over night, we have had sixteen dozen pieces finished early in 
the forenoon, when, by the old process, it would have been an 
u all day's job." 

WASHING MADE EASY. 

Dissolve half a pound of sal-soda and the same quantity of 
hard soap in half a gallon of boiling water, each separately. 
Pour a little boiling water over a quarter of a pound of quick 
lime. If quick, it will bubble when the water is applied. Boil 
the dissolved lime and soda together for twenty minutes, and 
then put all into ajar to settle. 

This preparation contains nothing injurious to linen. It has 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 369 

been proved by trial that if the directions are rightly followed, 
it is less destructive than the old method. 

Flannels and colored clothes must not be washed in this 
way, but as usual. 

The night before, the collars and wristbands of shirts, the 
feet of stockings, &c. , should be rubbed with soap and set to 
soak. In the morning, pour ten gallons of water into the cop- 
per, and having strained the mixture of lime and soda well, 
taking great care not to disturb the settlings, put it, together 
with the soap, into the water, and make the whole boil before 
putting in the clothes. A plate should be placed at the bot- 
tom of the copper to prevent the clothes from burning. Boil 
each lot of clothes from half an hour to an hour. Then rinse 
them well in cold blue water. When dry, they will be beau- 
tifully white. The same water will do for three lots. Wash 
the finer things first. 

After having been used for the clothes, the mixture may be 
employed for cleaning silver, brass, or any other kind of metal, 
which should afterward be dried and polished with leather. 
The liquid may also be used for scouring floors, or cleaning 
paint. 

TO CLEAN AND RESTORE THE COLOR OF HARNESS. 

Having washed off the wet dirt, sponge the harness clean 
and hang it up to dry. Next, brush it with a dry, hard brush, 
and clean the brass ornaments. 

For this purpose, mix a quarter of a pint of turpentine with 
two ounces of rotten stone, two ounces of finely powdered 
charcoal, and a quarter of a pint of droppings of sweet oil ; 
apply this paste with leather, and polish it off with powdered 
charcoal. 

To restore the color of harness, clean it, and brush over it 
the following mixture : Boil half a pound of logwood chips in 

P* 24 



370 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

three quarts of soft water, to which add three ounces oi galls, 
bruised, and one ounce of alum. 

TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM BURNLNG. 

Add one ounce of alum to the last water used in rinsing 
children's dresses, and they will be rendered uninflammable, or 
so slightly combustible that they would take fire slowly, if at 
all, and would not blaze. 

EXERCISE AFTER MEALS. 

Exercise is hurtful immediately after meals, particularly to 
those of nervous and irritable constitutions, who are thence li- 
able to heart-burn, eructations and vomiting. Indeed, the in- 
stinct of the inferior animals confirms the propriety of this 
rule ; for they are all inclined to indulge themselves in rest al- 
ter food. At all events, fatiguing exercise should be delayed 
till digestion is performed, which requires three or four ^ours 
after eating a full meal. 

TO KEEP IIOPS EOR FUTURE USE. 

Hops lose all their fine flavor by exposure to the air and 
damp. They should be kept in a dry, close place, and lightly 
packed. 

VOLATILE SOAP, FOR REMOVING PAINT, GREASE SPOTS, ETC. 
Four tablespoons full of spirits of hartshorn, four table- 
spoons full of alcohol, and a tablespoon full of salt. Shake 
the whole well together in a bottle, and apply with a sponge 
or brush. 

TO MAKE EXCELLENT AND WHOLESOME TABLE BEER. 

To eight quarts of boiling water, put a pound of molasses, 
a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and two bay leaves; let this 
boil for a quarter of an hour, then cool, and work it with yeast, 
the same as other beer. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 371 


TO PREVENT BEER GROWING FLAT. 

In a cask containing eighteen gallons of beer, becoming 
vapid, put a pint of ground malt, suspended in a bag, and 
close the bung perfectly ; the beer will be improved during the 
whole time of drawing it for use. 

TO CLEAN BED TICKS. 

Apply Poland starch, by rubbing it on thick with a wet 
cloth. Place it in the sun. When dry, rub it in with the 
hands ; repeat it if necessary. The soiled part will be as clean 
as new. 

TO PREVENT LAMPS SMOKING. 

It is very often difficult to get a good light from a lamp, 
and yet keep it from smoking; but if the wick is first soaked 
in strong vinegar, and then thoroughly dried, this annoyance 
will be prevented. Still, the wick must not be put up too high. 

TO CURE PORK. 

As soon as the pork becomes cool, let it be cut and sorted. 
The hams, shoulders, and spare-ribs may be reserved ; but all 
the rest, save fragments for sausages, are to be put into bar- 
rels made perfectly sweet and clean. What is to be put 
down in the barrels should be cut into pieces of a size suitable 
for cooking. The bottom of the barrel should be well covered 
with coarse salt ; then a layer of pork, each piece to be rubbed 
with salt, and packed in close, and well covered with salt ; 
then another layer of pork, and so on till the barrel is filled. 
Salt cannot be used too freely. After six or eight days, a 
pickle of salt and cold water is to be made as strong as possible, 
completely covering the meat thus previously salted. This 
will keep for years. 



872 DOMESTIC ECOXOMT. 

TO CURE HAMS AS PRACTICED IN VIRGINIA. 

For one hundred pounds of meat take six pounds of fine 
salt, three pounds of brown sugar, or three pints of molasses, 
and one pound of saltpetre, powdered ; mix all these together ; 
rub each ham over with this mixture, and pack them down in. 
a cask or tub, and let them remain so five or six days ; then 
turn, and sprinkle some salt on them slightly, and so let them 
remain five or six days longer ; then add brine or pickle strong 
enough to bear an egg, and let them remain covered with it 
for a month, when they will be fit for the smoke-house. 

TO SALT BEEF. 

Into four gallons of water put one pound and a half of coarse 
brown sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and six pounds of bay 
salt ; boil and skim as long as any scum rises. When cold, 
put in the meat, which must be quite covered with pickle ; 
once in two months boil up the pickle again, skimming care- 
fully. Add in the boiling two ounces of coarse sugar, half a 
pound of bay salt, and the same pickle will be good for twelve 
months. It is incomparable for hung beef, hams, or neats' 
tongues. When you take them out of this pickle, clean, dry, 
and put them in a paper bag, and hang them up in a dry place. 

Pork may be pickled in the same manner. 

ANOTHER PICKLE FOR TONGUES, BEEF, AND HAMS. 

To three gallons of spring water add six pounds of common 
salt, two pounds of bay salt, two pounds of common loaf sugar, 
and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil these over a gentle fire, and 
be careful to takeoff all the scum as it rises ; when quite cold, 
it will be fit for use. Rub the meat to be cured with fine salt, 
and let it drain for a day or two, in order to free it from the 
blood ; then immerse it in the brine, taking care that every 
part of it shall be covered. Young pork should not remain 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 373 

more than from three to five days in the pickle ; but hams for 
drying may be kept in a fortnight at least ; tongues will be 
ready in rather less time. Beef may remain from one week 
to two, according to its size, and the degree of saltness desired 
for it. A little experience will soon teach the exact time re- 
quired for the different kinds of meat. When the pickle has 
been in use for about three months, boil it up again gently, 
and take the scum carefully off. Add to it three pounds of 
common salt, four ounces of sugar, and one of saltpetre ; it 
will remain good for a year or more. 

TO SMOKE HAMS. 

A smoke-house should be well ventilated, and the hams be 
hung at least eight or ten feet above the fire, and the smoke 
given out in moderate quantities, and come from corn-cobs or 
hickory wood. It is. important that the hams be kept cool 
and dry through the whole operation. Proper ventilation of 
the smoke-house secures this. If they become moist by im- 
proper ventilation, or are placed so near the fire as to be heated, 
their flavor is greatly injured. 

TO KEEP HAMS IN SUMMER. 

Take them early in spring, and pack them in barrels, with 
oats, barley, bran, or any thing of the like, to protect them 
from flies, &c, and they will keep good. Another sure 
way is to rub the hams with pulverized nitre ; let them re- 
main in the cellar three days ; smoke a barrel three days, and 
make a pickle of salt and sugar ; put in your hams, and the 
work is done for the year. 

TO REMOVE FLIES. 

Flies and other insects may be kept from attacking meat, 
by dusting it over with pepper, powdered ginger, or any other 



374 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

spice, or by skewering a piece of paper to it, on which a drop 
of creosote has been poured. The spices may be readily 
washed off with water before dressing the meat. 

RULES FOR COLORING. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

The materials should be perfectly clean ; soap should be 
rinsed out in soft water; the article should be entirely wetted, 
or it will spot ; light colors should be steeped in brass, tin, or 
earthen ; and if set at all, should be set with alum. Dark 
colors should be boiled in iron, and set with copperas. Too 
much copperas rots the thread. 

FOR COLORING SKY BLUE. 

Get the blue composition. It may be found at the druggist's, 
or clothier's, for a shilling an ounce. If the articles are not 
white, the old colors should be all discharged by soap or a strong 
tartaric acid water, then rinse. Twelve or sixteen drops of 
the composition stirred into a quart bowl of soft, warm water, 
and strained, if settlings are seen, will dye a great many arti- 
cles. If you want a deeper color, add a few drops more of the 
composition. If you wish to color cotton goods, put in pounded 
chalk to destroy the acid, which is very destructive to all cot- 
ton. Let it stand until the effervescence subsides, and then it 
may be safely used for cotton as well as silk. 

FOR LILAC COLOR. 

Take a little pinch of archil, and put some boiling hot wa- 
ter upon it ; add to it a very little lump of pearlash. Shades 
may be altered by pearlash, common salt, or wine. 

TO COLOR BLACK. 

Logwood and cider, boiled together in iron — add water for 
the evaporation — makes a good and durable black. Rusty 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 375 

nails, or any bits of rusty iron, boiled in vinegar, with a small 
piece of copperas, will also dye black ; so will ink-powder, if 
boiled with vinegar. In all cases, black must be set with 
copperas. 

LEMON COLOR. 

. Peach leaves, bark scraped from the barberry bush, saffron, 
&c, steeped in water, and set with alum, will color a bright 
lemon ; drop in a little gum Arabic to make the articles stiff. 

ROYAL PURPLE. 

Soak logwood chips in soft water until the strength is out ; 
then add alum, a teaspoon full to a quart of the liquor. If 
this is not bright enough, add more alum. Rinse, and dry. 
When the dye is exhausted, it will color a fine lilac. 

SLATE COLOR. 

Tea grounds, boiled in iron vessels, set with copperas, makes 
a good slate color. To produce a light slate color, boil white 
maple bark in clear water, with a little alum. The bark 
should be boiled in brass utensils. The goods should be boiled 
in it, and then hung where they will drain and dry. 

SCARLET. 

Dip the cloth in a solution of alkaline or metallic salt, then 
in a cochineal dye, and let it remain some time, and it will 
come out permanently colored. Another method : Half a 
pound of madder, half an ounce of cream tartar, one ounce of 
marine acid, to a pound of cloth. Put it all together, and 
bring the dye to a scalding heat. Put in your materials, and 
they will be colored in ten minutes. The dye must be only 
scalding hot. Rinse your goods in cold water as soon as they 
come from the dye. 



37G DOMESTIC ECONOMY - . 

TO COLOR A BRIGITT MADDER. 

For one pound of yarn or cloth, take three ounces of mad- 
der, three ounces of alum, one ounce of cream tartar. Pre- 
pare a brass kettle with two gallons of water, and bring the 
liquor to a steady heat. Then add your alum and tartar, and 
bring it to a boil. Put in your cloth, and boil it two hours ; 
take it out, and rinse it in cold water. Empty your kettle, 
and fill it with as much water as before ; then add your mad- 
der ; rub it in fine in the water before your cloth is in. When 
your dye is as warm as you can bear your hand in, then put 
in your cloth, and let it lie one hour, and keep a steady heat ; 
keep it in motion constantly ; then bring it to a boil fiteen min- 
utes ; then air, and rinse it. If your goods are new, use four 
ounces of madder to a pound. 

TO COLOR GREEN. 

If you wish to color green, have your cloth as free as possi 
ble from the old color, clean, and rinsed ; and, in the first 
place, color it deep yellow. Fustic boiled in soft water, 
makes the strongest and brightest yellow dye ; but saffron, 
barberry bush, peach leaves, or onion skins, will answer pretty 
well. Next take a bowl full of strong yellow dye, and pour 
in a great spoon full or more of the blue composition. Stir it 
up well with a clean stick, and dip the articles you have al- 
ready colored yellow into it, and they will take a lively, grass 
green. This is a good plan for old bombazet curtains, dessert 
cloths, old flannel for desk coverings, &c. 

STRAW COLOR AND YELLOW. 
Saffron, steeped in earthen, and strained, colors a fine straw 
color. It makes a delicate or deep shade, according to the 
strength of the tea. The dry outside skins of onions, steeped 
in scalding water, and strained, color a yellow very much like 
the " bird of paradise " color. Peach leaves, or bark scraped 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 377 

from the barberry bush, color a common bright yellow. In 
all these cases, a little bit of alum does no harm, and may 
help to fix the color. Ribbons, gauze handkerchiefs, &c, are 
colored well in this way, especially if they be stiffened by a 
bit of gum Arabic, dropped in while the stuff is steeping. 

NANKIN COLOR. 

The simplest way is to take a pail full of lye, to which put 
a piece of copperas half as big as a hen's egg. Boil in a cop- 
per or tin kettle. 

TO MAKE ROSE COLOR. 

Balm blossoms, steeped in water, color a pretty rose color. 
This answers very well for the linings of children's bonnets, 
for ribbons, &c. 

TO DYE STRAW AND CHIP BONNETS BLACK. 

Boil them in strong logwood liquor three or four hours, oc- 
casionally adding green copperas, and taking the bonnets out 
to cool in the air, and this must be continued for some hours. 
Let the bonnets remain in the liquor all night, and the nexl 
morning take them out, dry them in the air, and brush them 
with a soft brush. Lastly, rub them inside and out with a 
sponge, moistened with oil, and then send them to be blocked. 

TO DYE WHITE GLOVES A BEAUTIFUL PURPLE. 

Boil four ounces of logwood, and two ounces of roche-alum, 
in three pints of soft water, till half wasted. Let it stand to 
be cold after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; 
then do them over with a brush, and when dry repeat it. 
Twice is sufficient, unless the color is to be very dark. When 
dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the 
white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. 
The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar, 
before they are washed, will take it off. 



378 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO BLEACH STRAW HATS, ETC. 

Straw hats and bonnets are bleached by putting them, pre- 
viously washed in pure water, in a box with burning sulphur ; 
the fumes which arise unite with the water on the bonnets, and 
the sulphurous acid thus formed, bleaches them. 



CHAPTER XXVU. 
• THE ORCHARD, GARDEN, ETC. 

TO PRUNE ORCHARD TREES. 

The object in pruning young trees, is to form a proper head. 
The shoots may be pruned in proportion to their lengths, cut- 
ting clean away such as cross one another, and fanning the tree 
out toward the extremities on all sides; thereby keeping it 
equally poised, and fit to resist the effects of high winds. 
When it is wished to throw a young tree into a bearing state, 
which should not be thought of, however, sooner than the third 
or fourth year after planting, the leading branches should be 
very little shortened, and the lower or side branches not at all, 
nor should the knife be used, unless to cut out such shoots as 
cross one another. 

The season for pruning orchards is generally winter or early 
in spring. A weak tree ought to be pruned directly at the fall 
of the leaf. To prune in autumn strengthens a plant, and will 
bring the blossom buds more forward ; to cut the wood late 
in the spring tends to check a plant, and is one of the remedies 
for excessive luxuriance. 

TO PREVENT GUMMING IN FRUIT TREES. 

To prevent gumming, or the spontaneous exudation of gum 
from the trunks of fruit trees, which injures, to a considerable 
extent, the growth and strength of the tree, take of horse 
dung any quantity, mix it well up with a quantity of clay 
and a little sand, so as to make a composition ; then add a 
quantity of pitch tar (what is put upon cart wheels,) and 
form a vjrettish composition of the whole. The fruit trees 



380 DOMESTIC ECONOMY". , 

in the spring of the year, after they are cleaned and tied up, are 
to have their trunks and stems completely bedaubed or cov- 
ered with this mixture. • 

TO DESTROY INSECTS ON PLANTS. 

Tie up some flour of sulphur in a piece of muslin or fine 
linen, and with this the leaves of young shoots of plants should 
be dusted, or it may be thrown on them by means of a com- 
mon swan's-down puff, or even by a dredgingbox. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received of the pow- 
erful influence of sulphur against the whole tribe of insects and 
worms which infest and prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also 
been found to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and that peach trees in particular were remarkably 
improved by it, and seemed to absorb it. It has been like- 
wise observed, that the verdure, and other healthful appearan- 
ces, were perceptibly increased ; for the quantity of new shoots 
and leaves formed subsequently to the operation, and having 
no sulphur on their surface, served as a kind of comparative 
index, and pointed out distinctly the accumulation of health. 

TO RENOVATE OLD APPLE TREES. 

Take fresh made lime from the kiln, slake it well with wa- 
ter, and well dress the tree with a brush, and the insects and 
moss will be completely destroyed, the outer rind fall off, and 
a new, smooth, clear, healthy one formed, and the tree assume 
a most healthy appearance and produce the finest fruit. 

TO PRESERVE ROOTS. 

These are preserved in different ways, according to the ob- 
ject in view. Tuberous roots, as those of the dahlia, poeonia, 
tuberose, &c, intended to be planted in the succeeding spring, 
are preserved through the winter in dry earth, in a temperature 
rather under than above what is natural to them. So may the 



THE ORCHARD, GARDEN, ETC. 381 

bulbous roots of commerce, as hyacinths, tulips, onions, &c, 
but for convenience, these are kept either loose, in cool dry- 
shelves or lofts, or the finer sorts in papers, till the season of 
planting. 

TO CULTIVATE COMMON GARDEN EHUBAEB. 

It is not enough to give it depth of good soil, but it must be 
watered in drought ; and in winter must be well covered with 
straw or dung. If this be attended to, your rhubarb will be 
solid when taken out of the ground, and your kitchen, if a warm 
one, when cut into large pieces, will soon fit it for use. 

TO HIVE BEES. 

Bee keepers should have spare hives by them prepared to 
hive the bees as soon as they are settled ; for should the sun 
shine hot upon the swarm it may take another flight, and may 
possibly be lost entirely. The manner of hiving them must 
be regulated by the nature of the place on which they settle. 
The custom of preparing hives varies ; a clean new hive only 
requires the loose straw to be rubbed off with a cloth ; if any 
dressing be used, fennel, dipped in ale and sugar, will best an- 
swer the purpose. Have ready a cloth whereon to place the 
hive, and a wedge to raise it ; if the swarm should settle on a 
branch, shake the best part of it into the hive, place it on the 
cloth on the ground, and continue to disturb the swarm where 
it settled, and the hive being left underneath, they will all go 
in ; or cut the branch off, and gently place it in the hive. 
Should the bees settle on the ground, place the hive over them ; 
and though bees are not apt to sting at this time, the hiving 
should be performed quietly. Avoid talking and breathing on 
them, and if any of them are crushed, they will resent it ; there- 
fore, to prevent accident, invariably use the bee-dress, which 
will give confidence. All swarms are to be sheltered and left 
near to where they settle till the evening; thence to be removed 
very gently to the appointed place. 



382 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO MAKE HENS LAY PERPETUALLY. 

Give your hens half an ounce of fresh meat, chopped fine, 
once a day, while the ground is frozen, and they cannot get 
worms or insects; allow no cocks to run with them, and they 
will lay without cessation. Try it. They also require plenty 
of grain, water, gravel, and lime. 

FOR FATTENING HENS. 
The following is from the Maine Farmer: Shut up your 
hens where there is no gravel. Keep corn by them all the 
time, and also give them dough once a day. For drink give 
them skim milk. With this feed they will fatten in ten days. 
If kept over ten days they should have some gravel, or they 
will fall away. 

TO DESTROY TIIE BEE MILLER. 

The Boston Farmer's Journal says, to a pint of water, sweet 
encd with honey or sugar, add half a gill of vinegar, and set it 
in an open vessel on the top or by the side of the hive. When 
the miller comes in the night, he will fly into the mixture and 
be drowned. 

TO PRESERVE BEES FROM WORMS AND INSECTS. 

About the first of May raise the hive up, and strew some 
fine salt under the edges. 

WASH FOR FRUIT TREES. 

Take equal parts, by measure, of ground plaster of Paris, 
soft soap, and green cow-dung; dilute them with water to the 
consistency of common whitewash; and apply the mixture to 
the trunks and large branches of the trees with a mop or brush. 
This will not only have.a tendency to destroy or ward off in- 
sects, but render the trees more healthy and fruitful. 



THE ORCHARD, GARDEN, ETC. 383 

TO DESTROY CATERPILLARS ON TREES. 

Take a chafing-dish with lighted charcoal, and, after throw- 
ing some pinches of brimstone in powder on the coals, hold it 
under the branches that are loaded with caterpillars. The va- 
por of the sulphur, which is mortal to these insects, will not 
only kill all that are on the tree, but it will also prevent it from 
being infested with them afterward. A pound of sulphur will 
clear a great extent of ground. Torches are apt to injure the 
trees. Firing sand into the nests with a gun is a long process, 
and not sure. 

TO PRESERVE FLOWER SEEDS. 

Those who are curious about saving flower seeds must at- 
tend to them in the month of August. Many kinds w 7 ill begin 
to ripen apace, and should be carefully sticked and supported, 
to prevent them from being shaken by high winds, and so part- 
ly lost. Others should be defended from much wet ; such as 
asters, marigolds, and generally those of the class Syngenesia ; 
as from the construction of their flowers they are apt to rot, 
and the seeds to mould, in bad seasons. Whenever they are 
thought ripe, or indeed any others, in wet weather, they should 
be removed to an airy shed or loft, gradually dried, and rubbed 
or beat out at convenience. 

TO KEEP GRAPES. 

Gather the grapes in the afternoon of a dry day, before they 
are perfectly ripe. Have ready a clean dry barrel and wheat 
bran. Proceed then with alternate layers of bran and grapes, 
till the barrel is full, taking care that the grapes do not touch 
each other, and to let the last layer be of bran ; then close the 
barrel, so that the air may not be able to penetrate, which is 
an essential point. Grapes, thus packed, will keep nine or even 
twelve months. To restore them to their freshness, cut the 
end of the stalk of each bunch of grapes, and put that of white 



384 DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 

grapes into white wine, and that of the black grapes into red 
wine, as you would put flowers into water, to revive or keep 
them fresh. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

If you wish to preserve peaches in their own juice, have tin 
cans made to hold one or two quarts, with a hole in one end to 
receive the fruit. Pare and stone the peaches ; put them in a 
pot and bring them to a boiling heat ; then put them in the 
cans, and solder on the cap. Set the cans in a pot of boiling 
water and let them remain two or three minutes, then solder 
up the opening, and they are done. I have now peaches (April 
29) in good order, and which taste as fresh as when they were 
first taken from the trees. Glass or stone vessels are preferable. 

TO KEEP CRANBERRIES. 

Gather them when quite dry, cork them closely in dry bot- 
tles, and place in a cool, dry cellar. They will also keep in 
bottles or in casks of water, the latter being the mode practiced 
in the north of Europe and in this country, and in which it is 
sent a long distance, without injury ; the fruit is put in a per- 
fect state into tight barrels, filled with water, and headed up. 

TO PRESERVE CARROTS, PARSNIPS, AND BEETS, ALL WINTER. 

A little before the frost sets in, draw your beets or pars- 
nips out of the ground, and lay them in the house, bury- 
ing their roots in sand to the neck of the plant, and ranging 
them one by another in a shelving position ; then another bed 
of sand, and another of beets, and continue this order to the 
last. By pursuing this method, they will keep very fresh. 
When they are wanted for use, draw them as they stand, not 
out of the middle or sides.. 



THE ORCHARD, QARPEN, ETC. 385 

TO PRESERVE SEEDS OF PLANTS IN A STATE FIT FOR 
VEGETATION. 

Seeds of plants may be preserved, for many months at least, 
by causing them to be packed, either in husks, pods, &c, in 
absorbent paper, with raisins or brown moist sugar ; or, a good 
way, practiced by gardeners, is to" wrap the seed in brown pa- 
per, pasted down, and then varnished over. 

TO DESTROY MOSS ON TREES. 

Remove it with a hard scrubbing-brush, in February and 
March, and wash the trees with cow-dung, urine, and soap-suds. 

TO DRIVE BUGS FROM VINES. 

The ravages of the yellow-striped bug on cucumbers and 
melons may be effectually prevented by sifting charcoal dust 
over the plants ; if repeated three or four times, the plants will 
be entirely freed from annoyance. Another method is to cul- 
tivate one or two plants of tomato in the center of each hill, 
which may be removed when the vines have outgrown the bug. 
A few spears of tansey is also recommended. 

TO KEEP ROSE BUGS FROM GRAPE- VLNES. 

David Cole, of Watervliet, says that he has found air-slacked 
lime, scattered on grape-vines, when the dew is on, an effectual 
preventive of the attacks of the rose-bug. It will even make 
the insects leave the vines, if they have already attacked them. 
Perhaps ashes and plaster would answer the same purpose. , 

TO INCREASE THE QUANTITY OF CREAM. 

Have ready two pans in boiling water ; and on the new 

milk coming to the dairy, take the hot pans out of the water, 

put the milk into one of them, and cover it with the other. 

This will occasion great augmentation in the thickness and 

quality of the cream. 

Q 25 



386 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

MILDEW ON GOOSEBERRIES. 

The Farmer's Gazette states that the mildew is prevented 
by sprinkling fine salt around the bushes ; or, where it can be 
had, by placing seaweed around them. Watering with soap- 
suds, before the fruit forms, and using compost for manure, is 
also good. 

TO KEEP APPLES FRESH A YEAR. 

Dry sand ; and dry your barrel. Put in a layer of apples, 
and a layer of sand, and so on until full ; cover it tight, and 
keep where they will not freeze in winter. They will be fair, 
and fine-flavored the next summer. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 
MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 

CAUTIONS IN VISITING SICK ROOMS. 

Never venture into a sick room in a violent perspiration, (if 
circumstances require a continuance there for any time,) for 
the moment the body becomes cold, it is in a state likely to ab- 
sorb the infection, and receive the disease. Nor visit a sick 
person (especially if the complaint be of a contagious nature) 
with an empty stomach; as this disposes the system more 
readily to receive the infection. In attending a sick person, 
stand where the air passes from the door or window to the 
bed of the diseased, not betwixt the diseased person and any 
fire that is in the room, as the heat of the fire will draw the 
infectious vapor in that direction, and much danger would 
arise from breathing in it. 

FOR CHILDREN TROUBLED WITH WORMS. 

Take the leaves of sage, powdered fine and mixed with a 
little honey, a teaspoon full for a dose ; or flour of sulphur 
mixed with honey, is good for worms. Sweetened milk, with a 
little alum added to it, is good to turn worms. 

FOR FITS CAUSED BY WORMS. 

Take cream sweetened with molasses, and pour it down the 
throat of the child ; it will immediately give relief, and turn 
the worms. 

FOUL TEETH. 

The teeth sometimes become yellow or black without any 
adventitious matter being observed on them ; at other time* 



388 DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 

they become foul, and give a taint to the breath, in consequence 
of the natural mucus of the mouth, or part of the food remain- 
ing too long about them. The most frequent cause of foul 
teeth is the substance called tartar, which seems to be a depo- 
sition from the saliva, and with which the teeth are often al- 
most entirely encrusted. When this substance is allowed to 
remain, it insinuates itself between the gums and the teeth, and 
then gets down upon the jaw in such a manner as to loosen the 
teeth. This, indeed, is by far the most common cause of 
loose teeth ; and when they have been long covered with this 
or with any other matter, it is seldom they can be cleaned 
without the assistance of instruments. But when once they are 
cleaned, they may generally be kept so, by rubbing them with 
a thin piece of soft wood made into a kind of brush, and dipped 
into distilled vinegar ; after which the mouth is to be washed 
with common water. 

TO CLEAN TEETH. 

Take of good soft water, one quart ; juice of lemon, two 
ounces ; burnt alum, six grains ; common salt, six grains. Mix. 
Boil them a minute in a v cup, then strain and bottle for use ; 
rub the teeth with a small bit of sponge tied to a stick, once a 
week. 

TO MAKE TIIE TEETH WHITE. 

A mixture of honey with the purest charcoal will prove an 
admirable cleanser. 

WARD S PASTE FOR THE PILES. 

Pulverize finely, in an iron mortar, one ounce of black pep- 
per, one ounce of elecampane-root, and three ounces of fennel 
seed, and mix them intimately together. Now melt together, 
over a clear fire, two ounces of sugar and two ounces of clari- 
fied honey, so as to form a dear syrup, which add to the mixed 
powder in the mortar, and beat the whole into a mass of 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 389 

uniform consistence. This medicine is to be taken, when the 
irritation of piles runs so high as to threaten fistula. The dose 
is a piece of the size of a nutmeg, to be taken three times a 
day ; this is to be washed down by a glass of cold water, or 
white wine. ^ 

CATAPLASM TO HASTEN SUPPURATION. 

Make two parts of finely-powdered bran, and one part of 
linseed meal, into a poultice, with boiling water. A little oil 
should be spread over the surface, just before it is applied. 

ANOTHER. 

Take of crumb of bread and linseed oil, equal parts. Make 
them into a poultice with boiling milk. 

TO PREVENT COLDS LN CHILDREN. 

The best preventive of colds in children is to dress them 
warm, and give them exercise daily in the open air, and wash 
them thoroughly every day in cold water, if they are strong 
enough to bear it ; if not, add a little warm water, and rub the 
skin dry. This keeps the pores open. If they do take cold, 
give them a warm bath as soon as possible ; if that is not 
convenient, bathe the feet and hands, and wash the body all 
over in warm water, then give a cup of warm tea, and cover 
the patient in bed. Avoid exposure the following day. 

A SIMPLE CURE FOR THE CROUP. 

The Journal of Health says, when a child is taken with croup, 
instantly apply cold water, ice water, if possible, suddenly and 
freely to the neck and chest with a sponge. The breathing 
will almost instantly be relieved. So soon as possible, let the 
sufferer drink as much as it can ; then wipe it dry, cover it 
warm, and soon a quiet slumber will relieve all anxiety. 



390 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

SORE THROAT. 

Take a glass of olive oil, and half a glass of spirits of turpentine, 
mix them together, and rub the throat externally, wearing 
flannel round it at the same time. It should be applied in the 
early stages of the disease to insure entire success. Sweet oil 
will answer equally well. 

COUGH SYRUP3. 

Take Iceland moss two ounces, four poppy heads, four ta- 
blespoons full of barley, put in three pints of water ; boil it 
down to two, and strain it. Add one pound of sugar. Dose, 
a tablespoon full whenever the cough is troublesome. An- 
other : boil down thoroughwort to a thick syrup, and sweeten 
with molasses. This cures when other remedies fail. 



FOR A COUGH. 

Roast a large lemon very carefully, without burning it ; 
when it is thoroughly hot, cut and squeeze it into a cup, upon 
three ounces of sugar, finely powdered. Take a spoon full 
whenever your cough troubles you. It is as good as it is 
agreeable to the taste. Rarely has it been known to fail of 
giving relief. 

ANOTHER. 

The editor of the Baltimore Farmer and Gardener says, 
that the best remedy he ever tried in his family for a cough 
or cold, is a decoction of the leaves of the pine tree, sweetened 
with loaf sugar, to be drank warm, and freely, when going to 
bed at night, and cold throughout the day. In some sections 
of the country the pine tree may be found, where the lemon 
cannot be had. It is a cheap remedy, and cannot possibly do 
injury. Try it, therefore. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 391 

children's coughs. 
A few teaspoons full of warm treacle taken occasionally, and 
particularly at bed time, or when the cough is troublesome, 
will be found beneficial, especially for infants and children. 

TO PREVENT THE SPREADING OF CONTAGION. 

It cannot be too widely known, that nitrous acid possesses 
the properties of destroying the contagion of typhus fevers, and 
other malignant diseases. By the following simple process 
the gas may be procured with but little expense and trouble. 
Place a little saltpetre on a saucer, and pour on it as much oil 
of vitriol as will just cover it ; a copious discharge of acid gas 
will instantly take place. The quantity may be regulated by 
the ingredients. This is very important in preserving health, 
and preventing the spread of contagion. 

VOLATILE LINIMENT. 
This is a valuable preparation, to be rubbed on the skin as 
an external stimulant in sore throats, rheumatism, spasms, and 
kindred pains. After rubbing it well in, which should be con- 
tinued for twenty minutes to half an hour, flannel should be 
wrapped around the afflicted part. Volatile liniment is made 
by mixing equal quantities of spirits of hartshorn and sweet 
oil ; by adding to this mixture a teaspoon or two full of laud- 
anum, the preparation will be much improved in its efficacy 
in relieving pain. 

TO CURE A WEN. 
Wash it with common salt, dissolved in water, every day, 
and it will be removed in a short time. Or, make a strong 
brine of alum salt ; simmer it over the fire. When thus pre- 
pared, wet a piece of cloth in it every day, and apply it con- 
stantly for one month, and the protuberance will disappear. 



392 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TREATMENT OF THE MEASLES. 

The principal point in this disorder, is to keep the eruption 
out upon the surface of the body. Let the feet of the patient 
be immersed two or three times a day in warm water, drink- 
ing freely of thoroughwort tea, and taking care to be well 
wrapped up, so as to produce perspiration. Saffron is very 
valuable ; let this and thoroughwort tea be the only drink. 
Mustard poultices applied to the feet are very useful. Let 
the bowels be kept gently open. Avoid taking cold. 

TO PREVENT HAIR FROM FALLING OUT. 

Make a strong decoction of white oak bark in water, and 
use it freely. It is best to make but little at a time, and have 
it fresh at least once a fortnight. 

STARCII INJECTION. 

Take of the jelly of starch four ounces, and linseed oil half 
an ounce. Mix them over a gentle heat, and add forty drops 
of tincture of opium. To be used in alvine fluxes, to allay 
the irritation which occasions constant tenesmus. 

WHITE BEAN POULTICE. 

Nothing is so good to take down swellings as a soft poul- 
tice of stewed white beans, put on in a thin muslin bag, and 
renewed every hour or two. 

A SIMPLE CURE FOR DYSENTERY. 

Take some butter off the churn, immediately after being 
churned, just as it is, without being salted or washed ; clarify it 
over the fire like honey. Skim off all the milky particles when 
melted over a clear fire. Let the patient (if an adult,) take 
two tablespoons full of the clarified remainder, twice or thrice 
within the day. This has never failed to effect a cure, and in 
many cases it has been almost instantaneous. 



&L 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 393 

AN EAST INDIAN PRESCRIPTION FOR SUMMER COMPLAINTS. 
A wine glass of port wine in a cup of black tea, with sugar 
if you wish, but no cream. This has proved very effectual. 

TO CURE A FELON. 

A felon generally appears on the end of the fingers and 
thumbs ; it is extremely painful for weeks and sometimes 
months, and, in most cases, cripples or disfigures the finger or 
thumb that falls a victim to it. But it can be easily cured if 
attended to in time. As soon as the pain is felt, take the thin 
white skin of an egg, which is found inside of the shell ; put it 
round the end of the Qnger or thumb affected, and keep it there 
uutil the pain subsides. As soon as the skin becomes dry it will 
be very painful, and likely to continue for half an hour or more, 
but be not alarmed. If it grows painful, bear it ; it will be of 
short duration, compared to what the disease would be. A 
cure will be certain. 

CURE FOR HEADACHES. 

Make a mixture of two parts of ice and one part of salt, and 
apply it by means of a little purse of silk gauze, with a rim of 
gutta percha, to limited spots on the forehead or other parts of 
the scalp, where rheumatic headache is felt. The skin is sub- 
jected to the process from half a minute to one and a half 
minutes, and it is rendered hard and white. 

COLDS. 

A daily exposure to the outward air is absolutely necessary 
to secure us against the injurious influence of our variable cli- 
mate. For cure of catarrh, reduce the amount of food, take 
exercise, keep the bowels open, and bathe the feet in warm wa- 
ter at bed time. 

Q* 



394 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

FOR A COLD IN THE HEAD. 

What is called a head-bath is useful. Fill a wash-hand ba- 
sin with boiling water, and add an ounce of flour of mustard ; 
then hold the head, covered with a cloth to prevent the escape 
of the steam, over the basin as long as any steam arises. 

SAGE TEA. 

Night sweats have been cured, when more powerful reme- 
dies have failed, by fasting morning and night, and drinking 
cold sage tea constantly and freely. 

It is reckoned admirable as a cordial, and to sweeten and 
cleanse the blood. It is good in nervous cases, and is given in 
fevers, with a view to promote perspiration. With the ad- 
dition of a little lemon juice, it is very grateful and cooling. 

NOSE BLEEDING. 

Roll up a piece of paper and press it up under the upper 
lip. 

BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. 

In obstinate cases, blow a little gum Arabic powder up the 
nostrils through a quill, which will immediately stop the dis- 
charge. 

TO KILL EARWIGS, OR OTHER INSECTS, WHICH MAY ACCI- 
DENTALLY HAVE CREPT INTO THE EAR. 

Let the person under this distressing circumstance lay his 
head upon a table, the side upwards that is afflicted ; at the 
same time, let some friend carefully drop into the ear a little 
sweet oil or oil of almonds. A drop or two will be sufficient, 
which will instantly destroy the insect and remove the pain, 
however violent. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 395 

SIMPLE AND EFFECTUAL CURE FOR THOSE WHO MAY ACCI- 
DENTALLY HAVE SWALLOWED A WASP. 

Instantly, on the alarming accident taking place, put a tea- 
spoon full of common salt in your mouth, which will instan- 
taneously not only kill the wasp, but at the same time heal 
the sting. 

FOR CORNS. 

Take white-pine turpentine, spread a plaster, apply it to the 
corn, and let it stay on till it comes off of itself. Repeat this 
three times. It is also good for wounds. 

TO PREVENT THE LOCK-JAW. 

It has been stated on what was supposed to be good author- 
ity, that an application of warm lye, made of ashes, as strong 
as possible, to a wounded part, will prevent the lock-jaw ; if a 
foot, or a hand, immerse it in the lye — if another part of the 
body, let it be bathed with flannels wrung out from the warm 
liquid. 

EXTRACT OF ARNICA FOR BRUISES, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 

Take one ounce of arnica flowers, dried — that prepared by 
the Shakers is considered the best — and put them in a wide- 
mouthed bottle ; pour just enough scalding water over them to 
moisten them, and afterward about a pint or a pint and a half 
of spirits of wine. In case of a burn or bruise, &c, wet a cloth 
in the arnica, and lay it on the part affected. Renew the ap- 
plication occasionally, and the pain will soon be removed. 

FOR A SPRAIN. 

Mix equal parts of spirits of camphor, distilled vinegar, and 
turpentine, and rub the part affected. 

Cold water applications are excellent for sprains; as, to 



396* DOMESTIC ECONOMT. 

bathe the part in cold water, to pour cold water upon it, or to 
put bandages wet in cold water around it. 

Extract of arnica, applied to a sprain, will remove the pain 
in a short time. 



PRESERVATION OF THE TEETH. 

Perfect cleanliness about the mouth should be diligently 
practiced, not only for the sake of the appearance, but as the 
best preservative from decay of the teeth. Every morning, 
and after meals, the teeth should be cleansed by a soft brush 
and pure water. A little charcoal now and then is all the 
tooth powder requisite. Picking the teeth with pins is not 
only an offensive habit, but it is also exceedingly hurtful, since 
it loosens the teeth, and renders them more liable to decay. 
Teeth are frequently injured by cracking nuts, or plum stones, 
and biting hard substances ; also, by improper food, and par- 
ticularly by scalding hot drinks. 



TO REMOVE SCURVY FROM THE TEETH. 

Heat a piece of steel red hot, and quench it in a quart of 
white wine vinegar, eight or ten times, as fast as you can heat 
it ; then add to this liquor an ounce of powdered myrrh, and 
half an ounce of mastic, powdered ; wash your teeth two or 
three times a day with this liquid, and the scurvy will disap- 
pear. 

THE TEETHING OF CHILDREN. 

Use castor oil to keep the bowels open. If the pains are 
severe, give them a little paregoric. The gums are to be 
rubbed with honey two or three times a day. For drink, 
they may have balm tea. Children, in teething, should have 
free access to the pure air. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 397 

FOR THE CURE OF CANCER. 

Put water with the ashes of red oak bark, and boil it down 
to the consistence of molasses, and cover the cancer with a coat 
of it. In about an hour afterward cover it with a plaster of 
tar, which must be removed after a few days, and if any pro- 
tuberance remain in the wound, apply more potash and the 
plaster again, until it shall wholly disappear. 

A CERTAIN CURE FOR CANCER. 

Take an egg, pour out the white, then stir into the yolk fine 
salt until it is quite thick ; then put it on the cancer as a plas- 
ter ; continue it until it is cured. 

POISON OF RATTLESNAKES. 

It has been discovered that this poison is a most powerful 
sedative, and that stimulants are its antidotes. Alcohol is 
designated. In two instances in which this remedy has been 
applied, the persons have been cured. Brandy was freely 
given to them until relieved from the usual symptoms, and 
continued in smaller doses until the third day, when they went 
about as usual. 

TINCTURE FOR DISEASED GUMS. 

Take Peruvian bark, coarsely powdered, one ounce, and in- 
fuse it for a fortnight in half a pint of brandy. Gargle the 
mouth at night with a teaspoon full of this tincture, diluted 
with an equal quantity of rosewater. 

MAD DOGS A PREVENTIVE. 

Mix a small portion of the flour of sulphur with their food 
or drink. This has been known in Europe for centuries, and 
is used to prevent this disease from breaking out among the 
packs of hounds upon the estates of English noblemen. 



398 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO PREVENT WOUNDS FROM MORTIFYING. 

Sprinkle sugar on them. The Turks wash fresh wounds 
with wine, and sprinkle sugar on them. Obstinate ulcers 
may be cured with sugar dissolved in a strong decoction of 
walnut leaves. 

TO CURE POISON" ON THE HANDS. 

It is stated in the Farmer's Advocate, that poison on the 
hands or other parts, occasioned by the running ivy, or poison 
vine, maybe cured by rubbing the part a few times with lard. 
If so, the same application may be a remedy for other kindred 
affections. 

SHORTNESS OF BREATH. 

Take a quarter of an ounce of elecampane root, half an ounce 
of powder of licorice, as much flour of brimstone, and pow- 
der of anise seed, and two ounces of sugar candy, powdered. 
Make all into pills, with a sufficient quantity of tar. Take 
four large pills when going to rest. This is an incomparable 
medicine for an asthma. Or, take half a pint of the juice of 
stinging nettles ; boil, and skim it, and mix it up with as much 
clarified honey. Take a spoon full morning and evening. 

RELIEF FOR ASTHMA. 

Mix two ounces of the best honey with one ounce of castor 
oil, and take a teaspoon full night and morning. 

GARGLE FOR SORE THROAT. 

On twenty-five or thirty leaves of the common sage pour a 
pint of boiling water ; let the infusion stand half an hour. 
Add vinegar enough to make it moderately acid, and honey 
to the taste. Use it, as a gargle, several times a day. This 
combination of the astringent and emollient principle seldom 
fails to produce the desired effect. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 399 

BALSAM OF HONEY. 

Take balsam of Tulu two ounces, gum storax two drachms, 
opium two drachms, honey eight ounces. Dissolve these in a 
quart of spirits of wine. This balsam is very useful in hoarse- 
ness, and allays irritation of the lungs. It will often cure a 
cough that is alarming. Dose, one or two teaspoons full in a 
little warm tea. 

SIMPLE MIXTURE FOR BOWEL COMPLAINTS. 

Take rhubarb one ounce, saleratus one teaspoon full, and 
pour on them a pint of boiling water. When cold, add two 
teaspoons full of the essence of peppermint. Dose, as above. 

FOR A BURN. 

Beat an apple with salad oil until it is a poultice, pretty 
soft ; bind it on the part, and, as it dries, lay on fresh. You 
must be sure to pare, core, and beat your apple well, so as 
not to break the skin about the burn. It is said nothing has 
been found so sure to remove the fire, and it is cooling and 
soothing in a high degree. It is cheap, and always to be had 
in the season of apples. 

ANOTHER. 

A correspondent of the New England Farmer says, that 
equal parts of lime water and sweet oil, mixed and incorpora- 
ted, will form a kind of soap, which makes an excellent appli- 
cation for burns. Also, that it is very efficacious in taking out 
the inflammation as well as for healing the wounds caused 
either by burns or scalds. 

SALVE TO CURE BRUISES AND SORES. 

Take an ounce and a half of olive oil, two ounces of white 
diacula, and two ounces of beeswax ; let these ingredients be 
dissolved together, and the salve is formed. It has been fre- 



400 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

quently used with entire satisfaction, answering the best possi- 
ble purpose. 

OPODELDOC. 

Take common white soap three ounces, camphor one ounce, 
oil of origanum half an ounce, alcohol one pint. Cut the soap, 
and dissolve it in the alcohol, in which the other articles have 
been previously dissolved, and cool it in wide-mouthed vials, 
for use. 

CUKE FOR THE PDLES. 

The following simple application will certainly cure this 
most distressing complaint. It has been tried by many and 
found successful. Take three ounces of pulverized alum, and 
place in a belt made of cotton drilling, two inches in width, 
and wear the belt around the body, above the loins. It should 
be worn next the skin. Its operation is slow, but certain. 
Sweet oil is an excellent application for the parts affected. 
Carrot poultices give great relief. 

FOR SMALL CUTS AND WOUNDS. 

Moisten a piece of lint with a saturated solution of copal 
gum in ether, and apply over the injured part. Moisten it 
once or twice a day, by pouring a sufficient quantity over it, 
without removing the lint. If it be a cut, care should be ta- 
ken to bring the fedges together, when the application, from 
its sticking quality, will keep them in that state. A bandage 
may also be applied, but when the mischief is not very exten- 
sive, it is unnecessary. 

ADVANTAGES OF BATIUNG. 

It is a fact officially recorded, that during the terrible visita- 
tions of cholera in France, out of nearly sixteen thousand two 
hundred and twenty-eight subscribers to the public baths of 
Paris, Bordeaux, and Marseilles, only two deaths among them 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 401 

were ascribed to cholera. We doubt whether there exists a 
more effectual preventive of disease of every kind, and a greater 
promoter of good health at all times, than the practice of daily 
bathing. 

DYSPEPTIC LYE. 

Take of hickory ashes one quart, soot two ounces, boiling 
water one gallon. Mix, and let them stand for twenty-four 
hours, frequently stirring the ingredients; then pour off the 
lye, and bottle it up. A teacup of this liquor may be given 
three times a day. 

sir a. cooper's chilblain lindient. 

One ounce of camphorated spirits of wine, and half an ounce 
of liquid sub-acetate of lead ; mix, and apply in the usual way 
three or four times a day. Some persons use vinegar as a 
preventive; its efficacy might be increased, by the addition to 
the vinegar of one-fourth of its quantity of camphorated spirits. 

SCALD HEAD IN INFANTS. 

This complaint begins in brownish spots on the head, and 
in a few days forms a scab, and discharges a thick, gluey mat- 
ter, that sticks upon the hair. The sores gradually increase, 
until the whole head is covered with a scab, discharging this 
matter, which is very offensive. The hair is to be cut off as 
close as possible, and the head washed every night and morn- 
ing with lime water. This is easily prepared by slacking a 
piece of quicklime, of the size of a hen's egg, in a quart of wa- 
ter, and when settled, it is to be put into a bottle and corked 
for use. 

COLUMBO ROOT AND GINGER FOR DIARRHEA. 401 

Col umbo root, bruised, one ounce ; ginger two drachms, 

and boiling water one pint. Let them infuse one hour by the 

fire, and give of the strained liquor (cold) a wine-glass full 

26 



402 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

every two hours. This infusion, when freely used, has proved 
successful in bowel complaint (chronic diarrhea) of long 
standing. 

A SIMPLE MEDICINE FOR DYSPEPSIA. 

A little rhubarb root chewed at night, or the following sim- 
ple pill, will be of service in many cases. For the pill, take 
of rhubarb, in powder, half a drachm, of Castile soap one 
drachm, and of ipecacuanha, in powder, half a drachm ; mix 
them well together in honey or any syrup, to which add a lit- 
tle powdered ginger, to make the mixture pleasant to the 
stomach ; make it into thirty pills, one of which may be taken 
every morning, noon, and night ; this will give a tone to the 
stomach and bowels, but as an alterative, and keep them gen- 
tly open. This is an innocent and most useful pill, and will 
afford great relief, with proper exercise and diet, which must 
never be neglected. A teaspoon full or a tablespoon full of 
common charcoal, pounded very fine, and taken three times a 
day in a tumbler of cold water, is an excellent remedy in this 
complaint. 

FOE QUINSY. 

Take a parcel of hops, in quantity proportioned to the 
amount of medicine to be prepared. Let them be simmered 
in water a short time, till their strength is extracted. Let 
the liquid then be strained and duly sweetened with su^ar. 
It may be given to children or adults, in doses suited to the 
age, until relieved. 

FOR WHOOPING COUGH. 

Twenty grains of salts of tartar, ten of cochineal, one gill 
of warm water, and loaf sugar to make it very sweet. Put 
all in a vial, and give a teaspoon full three times a day, to a* 
child two or three years old. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 403 

ANOTHER. 

It is said, if you mix castor oil and molasses, in equal pro- 
portions, and give a teaspoon full whenever the cough is troub- 
lesome ; there will be almost immediate relief, and will facili- 
tate an entire cure. It is also serviceable in violent attacks of 
the croup. In the whooping cough, the bowels should be kept 
open by frequent doses of castor oil, if found necessary. 

A GOOD PLASTER FOR A COUGH. 

Take 'beeswax, Burgundy pitch, and rosin, each an ounce ; 
melt them together, and then stir in three-quarters of an ounce 
of common turpentine, and half an ounce of oil of mace. 
Spread it on a piece of sheep's leather, grate some nutmeg 
over the whole plaster, and apply it quite warm. 

Godfrey's cordial. 
Dissolve half an ounce of opium, one drachm of oil of sassa- 
fras, in two ounces of spirits of wine. Mix four pounds of trea- 
cle with one gallon of boiling water, and when cold, mix to- 
gether. This is the celebrated cordial so much used for 
children. 

PRECAUTIONS AGAINST CONSUMPTIONS. 

No doubt an adhesion to the following counsel will counter- 
act all ordinary predispositions to consumptions. Avoid all 
spirituous liquors, live temperately, wear flannel next to the 
skin, and take every morning half a pint of new milk, mixed 
with a wine glass of the juice of green hoarhound. One who 
has tried it says, four weeks' use of the hoarhound and milk 
relieved the pains in his breast, enabled him to breathe deep, 
long, and free, strengthened and harmonized his voice, &c. 

REMEDY FOR HAVING DRANK TOO MUCH COLD WATER. 

Persons who have imprudently drank of cold water or any 
other cold liquid, when too much heated, should take doses of 



404 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

liquid laudanum, proportioned to the violence of the pain. 
From a teaspoon full to near a tablespoon full has been given 
before relief has been obtained. The sooner taken, the better. 

FOR AGUE AND FEVER. 

Half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce cream tartar, one 
ounce of Peruvian bark, well pulverized. Put them into a 
bottle of best port wine, and take the decoction or tincture on 
the well days, as fast as the stomach will receive it. In more 
than five hundred cases this has been known to prove effi- 
cacious. 

FOR DIARRIIEA. 

Parch half a pint of rice until it is perfectly brown ; boil it 
down as usually done, and eat it slowly, and it will check, if 
not entirely stop, the most violent diarrhea in a few hours. 
Ordinarily, a little brandy, say half a wine-glass full, with loaf 
sugar dissolved in it, will have the same effect. However, it 
is better, in all cases, to avoid alcohol even as a medicine, if 
other antidotes can be had. In the more obstinate cases, 
where brandy is used, its efficacy is increased by stirring it 
with a red-hot iron. 

HORSERADISH FOR HOARSENESS. 

One drachm of the fresh scraped root of this plant, infused 
with four ounces of water, in a close vessel for two hours, and 
made into a syrup with double weight of sugar, is an approved 
recipe for removing hoarseness. A teaspoon full of this has 
often proved suddenly effectual. 

FOR INDIGESTION. 

Peach meats are excellent for indigestion ; eat slowly from 
one to six. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 405 

BRONCHITIS. 

A writer in the Baltimore Sun, whose family has been se- 
verely afflicted with bronchitis, recommends the following as 
a remedy, from which they experienced great relief: Take 
honey in the comb, squeeze it out, and dilute it with a little 
water, and occasionally moisten the lips and mouth with it. 
It has never been known to fail, even in cases where children 
had throats so swollen as to be unable to swallow. It is cer- 
tainly a simple remedy, and may be a very efficacious one. 

TURNIP SYRUP, FOR A COLD OR AFFECTION OF THE LUNGS. 

Roast twelve or more fine turnips in an apple-roaster, press 
the juice from them, and add sugar candy to your taste. Take 
a teacup full at night and in the morning. 

FOREIGN BODIES IN THE THROAT. 

Persons are frequently in danger of suffocation from fish 
bones, pins, &c, which stick in the throat. The moment an 
accident of this kind occurs, desire the patient to be perfectly 
still; open his mouth, and look into it. If you see the ob- 
struction, endeavor to seize it with your finger and thumb, or 
a long, slender pair of pincers. If it cannot be got up, and is 
not of a nature to do any injury in the stomach, push it down 
with the handle of a spoon, or a flexible, round piece of whale- 
bone, the end of which is neatly covered with a roll of linen, 
or anything that may be at hand. If you can neither get it up 
nor down, place six grains of tartar emetic in the patient's 
mouth. As it dissolves, it will make him excessively sick, and 
in consequence of the relaxation, the bone, or whatever it may 
be, will descend into the stomach, or be ejected from the mouth. 
If a pin, button, or other metallic or pointed body has been 
swallowed, or pushed into the stomach, make the patient eat 
plentifully of thick rice pudding, and endeavor to prevent him 
from going to stool for at least twelve hours. 



406 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

COMPOUND TINCTURE OF RHUBARB. 

Take of rhubarb, sliced, two ounces; of licorice root, bruis- 
ed, one half ounce; ginger, powdered, saffron, each two 
drachms; distilled water, one pint; proof spirits of wine twelve 
ounces, by measure. Digest for fourteen days, and strain. 
Dose, half an ounce as an aperient, or one ounce in violent 
diarrhea. 

TINCTURE OF GINGER. 

Take of ginger, in coarse powder, two ounces, and of proof 
spirits two pints. Digest in a gentle heat for seven days, and 
strain. This tincture is cordial and stimulant, and is generally 
employed as a corrective to purgative draughts. 

FUMIGATING POWDER. 

Take of cascarilla, reduced to a coarse powder, chamomile 
flowers, anise seed, each equal parts, two ounces. Put some hot 
cinders in a shovel, sprinkle this gradually on it, and fumigate 
the chambers of the sick. It takes off all smell, and keeps off 
infection. 

ITCH. 

Make use of sulphur ; it is an old but an effectual remedy. 
Or, take half a pound of fresh butter, and a teacup full of vin- 
egar ; simmer till it evaporates ; add one nutmeg, grated, and 
a tablespoon full of ground allspice ; let it cool to the thick- 
ness of crea,m, and add one teaspoon full of sulphur. Anoint 
three days in succession, and it will effect an entire cure. It 
will need no change of garments. 

RHEUMATISM. 

To a hand full of blue flag root add a pint of good spirits ; 
let it stand a week. Dose, a spoon full three times a day, and 
increase by degrees to three tablespoons full a day. An In. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 407 

dian remedy. Or, apply a poultice ©f hot potatoes ; renew 
as often as it becomes cool or hard. It is said to be a very 
excellent remedy. 

THE SHOWER-BATH. 

The cold shower-bath is less alarming to nervous persons, 
and less liable to produce cramps, than cold immersion ; it 
may be considered as the best and safest mode of cold bath- 
ing, and is recommended in many nervous complaints. It has 
also afforded relief in some cases of insanity. 

DR. BOERHAAVE's RULES. 

This great man left, as a legacy to the world, the following 
simple and unerring directions for preserving health ; they 
contain the sum and substance of his vast professional knowl- 
edge, during a long and useful life : " Keep the feet warm, 
the head cool, and the body open." If these were generally 
attended to, the physician's aid would seldom be required. 



POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. 

First ascertain, if possible, what poison the person has ta- 
ken, and then a resort may be had to the following remedies, 
if on hand, while a person goes for the doctor. It should be 
remembered that the ordinary calcined magnesia, mixed in 
water, is considered a certain antidote to numerous poisons of 
metallic origin, such as arsenic, corrosive sublimate, sulphate 
of zinc, &c. 

ACIDS. 
Such are oil of vitriol, aqua fortis, oxalic acid. These cause 
great heat, and sensation of burning pain, from the mouth 
down to the stomach. Remedies, magnesia, soda, pearlash, 
soap dissolved in water, or flaxseed tea ; then use a stomach- 
pump, or emetics. 



408 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

ALCOHOL. 

First cleanse out the stomach by an emetic, then dash cold 
water on the head, and give ammonia (spirits of hartshorn.) 

ALKALIES. 

Such are caustic potash, caustic soda, and volatile alkali. 
Take vinegar or lime juice. Afterward large quantities of 
sugar and water. 

AMMONIA. 

Remedy, lemon juice or vinegar; afterward milk and wa- 
ter, or flaxseed tea. 

ARSENIC. 

The symptoms are the same as in mercurial poisons. Rem- 
edies : in the first place, evacuate the stomach ; then give the 
white of eggs, lime water, or chalk and water, charcoal, and 
the preparations of iron, particularly hydrate. 

BELLADONNA, OR NIGHT HENBANE. 

Give emetics, and then plenty of vinegar and water, or lem- 
onade. 

CHARCOAL. 

In poisons by carbonic gas, remove the patient to open air, 
dash cold water on the head and body, and stimulate the nos- 
trils and lungs by hartshorn, at the same time rubbing the 
chest briskly. 

CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE. 

Constriction, with groat pain in the throat, stomach, and 
bowels. Give white of eggs freshly mixed with water; or 
give wheat flour and water, or soap and water, freely. 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 409 

CREOSOTE. 

White of eggs, and the emetics. 

LEAD. 

Sugar of lead, extract of saturn, white lead, litharge, min- 
ium. A sweet, astringent taste in the mouth, constriction of 
the throat, pain in the stomach, bloody vomiting, &c. Dis- 
solve a hand full of Epsom or Glauber salts in a pint of water, 
and give it at once ; when it has vomited him, use sweetened 
water. If the symptoms continue, act as directed for acids. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Give emetics, and then plenty of vinegar and water, with a 
dose of ether, if handy. 

NITRATE OF SILVER (LUNAR CAUSTIC.) 

Give a strong solution of common salt, and then emetics. 

NITRATE OF POTASH, OR SALTPETRE. 

Give emetics, then copious draughts of flaxseed tea, milk 
and water and other soothing drinks. 

OPIUM, OR LAUDANUM. 

Stupor, inclination to sleep, delirium, convulsions. First 
give a strong emetic of mustard and water, then strong coffee 
and acid drinks ; dash cold water on the head. 

OXALIC ACLD. 

Frequently mistaken for Epsom salts. Remedies, chalk 
magnesia, or soap and water, freely ; then emetics, 

PRUSSIC ACID. 

When there is time, administer chlorine, in the shape of 
soda or lime ; hot brandy and water ; hartshorn and turpen- 
tine are also useful. 
R 



410 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

SNAKE BITES, ETC. 

Apply immediately strong hartshorn, and take it internally ; 
also, give sweet oil, and stimulants, freely. Apply a liga- 
ture tight above the part bitten, and then apply a cupping-glass. 

STINGS FROM BEES. 

In stings from bees and other insects, bathe with salt and vin- 
egar, or sal-ammoniac and vinegar. 

TARTAR EMETIC. 

Give large doses of tea made of galls, Peruvian bark, or 
white oak bark. 

TOBACCO., HEMLOCK, NIGHTSHADE, SPURRED RYE, ETC. 

An emetic, as directed for opium. If the poison has been 
swallowed some time, purge with castor oil. After vomit- 
ing and purging, if still drowsy, bleed, and give vinegar and 
water. 

WHITE VITRIOL. 

Give the patient plenty of milk and water. In almost all 
cases of poisoning, emetics are highly useful ; and of those, one 
of the very best, because most prompt and ready, is the com- 
mon mustard flour or powder, a spoon full of which, stirred 
up in warm water, may be given every five or ten minutes, 
until free vomiting can be obtained. 

Emetics and warm, demulcent drinks, such as milk and wa- 
ter, flaxseed, or slippery elm tea, chalk water, &c, should be 
administered without delay. The subsequent management of 
the case will of course be left to a physician. 

When poisoned by dogwood, ivy, or swamp sumac, dissolve 
a quarter of an ounce of copperas (sulphate of iron) in a pint 
of water, and bathe the part atTected. 



MEDICINAL PREPARATIONS AND HERBS, 



WHICH EVERY FAMILY OUGHT TO KEEP ON HAND. 



Sena. Dose, a tablespoon full 
of the leaves,steeped,for an adult. 

Syrup of Rhubarb. 

Camphor. 

Castor Oil. Dose, for an adult, 
a tablespoon full; for a child, a 
teaspoon full. 

Syrup of Squills. For a child, 
half a teaspoon full. 

Sweet Oil. 

Paregoric. For a child five to 
twenty drops. 

Hot Drops. A teaspoon full 
for an adult. ■ 

Ground Mustard. 

Wine Ipecac. Dose, to act as 
an emetic, fifteen drops, repeated 
every fifteen minutes, till it op- 
erates ; for an adult, a teaspoon 
full. 

Composition. Dose, a teaspoon 
full for an adult. 

Magnesia. 



Pennyroyal, for a cold, &c. 

Red Raspberry Leaves, for dys- 
entery, canker, <fcc. 

Slippery Elm, for poultices and 
drinks. 

Mullen Leaves, for poultices 
and fomentations. 

Flax Seed. 

Cranesbill, for canker. 

Wormwood, for bruises, worms, 
&c. 

Sage. 

Thoroughwort. 

Catnip. 

Spearmint. 

Horseradish Leaves. 

Valerian. 

Burdock Leaves. 

Hoarhound. 

Yarrow, for blood spitting, 
d}"senter3 T , &c. 

Blackberry Root or Syrup, for 
dysentery. 



QUALITIES OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Beef. When this is the flesh of a bullock of middle age, 
it affords good and strong nourishment, and is peculiarly well 
adapted to those who labor, or take much exercise. It will 
often sit easy upon stomachs that can digest no other kind of 
food ; and its fat is almost as easily digested as that of veal. 

Veal is a proper food for persons recovering from indispo- 
sition, and may even be given to febrile patients in a very 
weak state, but it affords less nourishment than the flesh of 
the same animal in a state of maturity. The fat of it is lighter 
than that of any other animal, and shows the least disposition 
to putrescency. Veal is a very suitable food in costive habits ; 
but of all meat it is the least calculated for removing acidity 
from the stomach. 

Mutton, from the age of four to six years, and fed on dry 
pasture, is an excellent meat. It is of a middle kind between 
the firmness of beef and the tenderness of veal. The lean part 
of mutton, however, is the most nourishing and conducive to 
health, the flit being hard of digestion. The head of the sheep, 
especially when divested of the skin, is very tender ; and 
the feet, on account of the jelly they contain, are highly nu- 
tritive. 

Lamb is not so nourishing as mutton ; but it is light, and 
extremely suitable to delicate stomachs. 

House Lamb, though much esteemed by many, possesses 
the bad qualities common to the flesh of all animals reared in 
an unnatural manner. 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 413 

Pork affords rich and substantial nourishment, and its juices 
are wholesome when properly fed, and when the animal en- 
joys pure air and exercise. But the flesh of hogs reared in 
towns is both hard of digestion and unwholesome. Pork is 
particulaaly improper for those who are liable to any foulness 
of fhe skin. 

Smoked Hams are a strong kind of meat, and rather fit for 
a relish than for diet. It is the quality of all salted meat that 
the fibres become rigid, and therefore more difficult of digestion ; 
and when to this is added smoking, the heat of the chimney 
occasions the salt to concentrate, and the fat between the mus- 
cles sometimes to become rancid. 

Bacon is also of an indigestible quality, and is apt to turn 
rancid on weak stomachs ; but for those in health it is an ex- 
cellent food, especially when used with fowl or veal, or even 
eaten with peas, cabbages, or cauliflowers. 

Goat's Flesh is hard and indigestible ; but that of kid is 
tender, as well as delicious, and affords good nourishment. 

Venison, or the flesh of deer, and that of hares, is of a nour- 
ishing quality, but is liable to the inconvenience, that, though 
much disposed to putrescency of itself, it must be kept for a 
little time before it becomes tender. 

The Blood of Animals is used as an aliment by the com- 
mon people, but they could not long subsist upon it unless 
mixed with oatmeal, &c, for it is not very soluble, alone, by 
the digestive powers of the human stomach, and therefore can- 
not prove nourishing. 

Milk is of very different consistence in different animals ; 
but that of cows being the kind used in diet, is at present the 
object of our attention. Milk, where it agrees with the stomach, 
affords excellent nourishment for those who are weak, and can- 
not digest other aliments. It does not readily become putrid, 
but it is apt to become sour on the stomach, and thence to pro- 
duce flatulence, heart-burn, or gripes, and in some constitutions 



414 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

a looseness. The best milk is from a cow at three or four 
years of age, about two months after producing a calf. It is 
lighter, but more watery, than the milk of sheep and goats ; 
while, on the other hand, it is more thick and heavy than the 
milk of asses and mares, which are next in consistence to hu- 
man milk. 

On account of the acid which is generated after digestion, 
milk coagulates in all stomachs; but the caseous or cheesy 
part is again dissolved by the digestive juices, and rendered fit 
for the purposes of nutrition. It is improper to eat acid sub- 
stances with milk, as these would tend to prevent the due di- 
gestion of it. 

Cream is very nourishing, but, on account of its fatness, is 
difficult to be digested in weak stomachs. Violent exercise, 
after eating it, will, in a little time, convert it into butter. 

Butter. Some writers inveigh against the use of butter as 
universally pernicious ; but they might with equal reason con- 
demn all vegetable oils, which form a considerable part of diet 
in the southern climates, and seem to have been beneficially 
intended by nature for that purpose. Butter, like every other 
oily substance, has doubtless a relaxing quality, and if long re- 
tained in the stomach, is liable to become rancid; but, if eaten 
in moderation, it will not produce those effects. It is, how- 
ever, improper in bilious constitutions. The worst conse- 
quence produced by butter, when eaten with bread, is, that it 
obstructs the discharge of the saliva, in the act of mastication 
or chewing ; by which means the food is not so easily diges- 
ted. To obviate this effect, it would be a commendable prac- 
tice at breakfast, first to eat some dry bread, and chew it well, 
till the salivary glands were exhausted, and afterward to eat it 
with butter. By these means such a quantity of saliva might 
be carried into the stomach as would be sufficient for the pur- 
pose of digestion. 

Cheese is likewise reprobated by many as extremely un- 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 415 

wholesome. It is doubtless not easy of digestion ; and when 
eaten in a great quantity, may overload the stomach ; but if 
taken sparingly, its tenacity may be dissolved by the digestive 
juices, and it may yield a wholesome, though not very nour- 
ishing chyle. Toasted cheese is agreeable to most palates, but 
it is rendered more indigestible by that process. 

Fowls. The flesh of birds differ in quality according to the 
food on which they live. Such as feed upon grain and berries, 
afford, in general, good nourishment ; if we except geese and 
ducks, which are of hard digestion, especially the former. A 
young hen or chicken is tender and delicate food, and extremely 
well adapted where the digestive powers are weak. But of all 
tame fowls, the capon is the most nutritious. 

Turkeys, &c. Turkeys, as well as Guinea or India fowls, 
afford a substantial nutriment, but are not so easy of digestion 
as the common domestic fowls. In all birds those parts are the 
most firm, which are most exercised ; in the small birds, there- 
fore, the wings, and in the larger kinds the legs, are commonly 
the most difficult of digestion. 

Wild Fowls. The flesh of wild birds, in general, though 
more easily digested, is less nourishing than that of quadru- 
peds, as being more dry on account of their almost constant 
exercise. Those birds are not wholesome which subsist upon 
worms, insects, and fishes. • 

Eggs. The eggs of birds are a simple and wholesome ali- 
ment. Those of the turkey are superior in all the qualifica- 
tions of food. The white of eggs is dissolved in a warm tem- 
perature, but by much heat it is rendered tough and hard. 
The yolk contains much oil, and is highly nourishing, but has 
a strong tendency to putrefaction ; on which account, eggs are 
improper for people of weak stomachs, especially when they 
are not quite fresh. Eggs boiled hard or fried are difficult of 
digestion, and are rendered still more indigestible by the ad- 



416 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

dition o£ butter. All eggs require a sufficient quantity of salt, 
to promote their solution in the stomach. 

Fish, though some of them be light and easy of digestion, 
afford less nourishment than vegetables, or the flesh of quadru- 
peds, and are, of all the animal tribes, the most disposed to pu- 
trefaction. Salt water fish are, in general, the best ; but when 
salted, though less disposed to putrescency, they become more 
difficult of digestion. Whitings and flounders are the most 
easily digested. Acid sauces, and pickles, by resisting putre- 
faction, are a proper addition to fish, both as they retard pu- 
trescency, and correct the relaxing tendency of butter, so gen- 
erally used with this kind of aliment. 

Oysters and Cockles are eaten both raw and dressed ; but 
in the former state they are preferable, because heat dissipates 
considerably their nutritious parts as well as the salt water, 
which promotes their digestion in the stomach ; if not eaten 
very sparingly, they generally prove laxative. 

Muscles and Periwinkles are far inferior to oysters, both 
in point of digestion and nutriment. Sea muscles are by some 
supposed to be of a poisonous nature; but though this opinion 
is not much countenanced by experience, the safest way is to 
eat them with vinegar, or some other vegetable acid. 

Bread. At the head of the vegetable class stands bread, 
that article of diet which, from general use, has received the 
name of the staff of life. Wheat is the grain chiefly used for 
the purpose in this country, and is among the most nutritive 
of all the farinaceous kinds, as it contains a great deal of .starch. 
Bread is very properly eaten with animal food, to correct the 
disposition to putrescency ; but is most expedient with such 
articles of diet as contain much nourishment in a small bulk, 
because it then serves to give the stomach a proper degree of 
expansion. But as it produces a slimy chyle, and disposes to 
costiveness, it ought not to be eaten in a large quantity. To 
render bread easy of digestion, it ought to be well fermented 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 417 

and baked, and it never should be used till it has stood twenty- 
four hours after being taken out of the oven, otherwise it is 
apt to occasion various complaints in those who have weak 
stomachs ; such as flatulence, heart-burn, watchfulness, and the 
like. The custom of eating butter with bread, hot from the 
oven, is compatible only with very strong digestive powers. 

Pastry, especially when hot, has all the disadvantages of hot 
bread and butter, and even buttered toast, though the bread be 
stale, is scarcely inferior in its effects on a weak stomach. Dry 
toast, with butter, is by far the wholesomest breakfast. Brown 
wheaten bread, in which there is a good deal of rye, though 
not so nourishing as that made of fine flour, is both palatable 
and wholesome, but apt to become sour on weak stomachs. 

Oats, Barley, and Rice. Oats, when deprived of the husk, 
and particularly barley, when properly prepared, are each of 
them softening, and afford wholesome and cooling nourishment. 
Rice likewise contains a nutritious mucilage, and is much less 
used than it deserves to be, both on account of its whole- 
someness and economical utility. The notion of its being hurt- 
ful to the sight is a vulgar error. In some constitutions it 
tends to induce costiveness ; but this seems to be owing chiefly 
to flatulence, and may be corrected by the addition of some 
spice, such as caraways, anise seed, and the like. 

Potatoes are an agreeable and wholesome food, and yield 
nearly as much nourishment as any of the roots used in diet. 
The farinaceous or mealy kind is in general the most easy of 
digestion, and they are much improved by being roasted or 
baked. They ought almost always to be eaten with meat, and 
never without salt. The salt should be boiled with them. 

Green Peas and Beans, boiled in their fresh state, are both 
agreeable to the taste and wholesome, being neither so flatulent, 
nor so difficult of digestion, as in their ripe state ; in which 
they resemble the other leguminous vegetables. French beans 
possess much the same qualities ; but yield a more watery 
R* . 27 



418 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

juice, and have a greater disposition to produce flatulence. 
They ought to be eaten with some spice. 

Salads, being eaten raw, require good digestive powers, 
especially those of the cooling kind ; and the addition of oil 
and vinegar, though qualified with mustard, hardly renders the 
free use of them consistent with a weak stomach. 

Spinach affords a soft lubricating aliment, but contains lit- 
tle nourishment. In weak stomachs it is apt to produce acidity, 
and frequently a looseness. To obviate these effects, it ought 
always to be well beaten, and but little butter mixed with it. 

Asparagus is a nourishing article in diet, and promotes the 
secretion of urine ; but in common with the vegetable class, 
disposes a little to flatulence. 

Artichokes resemble asparagus in their qualities, but seem 
to be more nutritive, and less diuretic. 

Cabbages are some of the most conspicuous plants in the 
^arden. They do not afford much nourishment, but are an 
agreeable addition to animal food, and not quite so flatulent as 
*he common greens. They are likewise diuretic, and some- 
what laxative. Cabbage has a stronger tendency to putrefac- 
tion than most other vegetable substances; and, during its.pu- 
trefying state, sends forth an offensive smell, much resembling 
that of putrefying animal bodies. So far, however, from pro- 
moting a putrid disposition in the human body, it is, on the 
contrary, a wholesome aliment in the true putrid scurvy. 

Turnips are a nutritious article of vegetable food, but not 
very easy of digestion, and are flatulent. This effect is in a 
good measure obviated, by pressing the water out of them be- 
fore they are eaten. 

Carrots contain a considerable quantity of nutritious juice, 
but are among the most flatulent of vegetable productions. 

Parsnips are more nourishing and less flatulent than car- 
rots, which they also exceed in the sweetness of their mucilage. 
By boiling them in two different waters, they are rendered 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 419 

less flatulent, but their other qualities are thereby diminished 
in proportion. 

Parsley is of a stimulating and aromatic nature, well cal- 
culated to make agreeable sauces. It is also a gentle diuretic, 
but preferable in all its qualities when boiled. 

Celery affords a root both wholesome and fragrant, but is 
difficult of digestion in its raw state. It gives an agreeable 
taste to soups, as well as renders them diuretic. 

Onions, Garlic, and Shalots are all of a stimulating na- 
ture, by which they assist digestion, dissolve slimy humors, 
and expel flatulency. They are, however, most suitable to per- 
sons of a cold and phlegmatic constitution. 

Radishes of all kinds, particularly the horse radish, agree 
with the three preceding articles in powerfully dissolving slimy 
humors. They excite the discharge of air lodged in the in- 
testines. 

Apples are a wholesome vegetable aliment, and in many 
cases medicinal, particularly in diseases of the breast and com- 
plaints arising from phlegm. But, in general, they agree best 
with the stomach when eaten either roasted or boiled. The 
more aromatic kinds of apples are the fittest for eating raw. 

Pears resemble much in their effects the sweet kind of ap- 
ples, but have more of a laxative quality, and a greater ten- 
dency to flatulence. 

Cherries are in general a wholesome fruit, when they agree 
with the stomach, and they are beneficial in many diseases, 
especially those of the putrid kind. 

Plums are nourishing, and have besides an attenuating, as 
well as a laxative, quality, but are apt to produce flatulence. 
If eaten fresh, and before they are ripe, especially in large 
quantities, they occasion colics, and other complaints of the 
bowels. 

Peaches are not of a very nourishing quality, but they abound 
in juice, and are serviceable in bilious complaints. 



420 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

Apricots are more pulpy than peaches, but are apt to fer- 
ment, and produce acidities in weak stomach?. Where they 
do not disagree they are cooling, and tend likewise to correct 
a disposition to putrescency. 

Gooseberries and Currants, when ripe, are similar in their 
qualities to cherries, and when used in a green state, they are 
agreeably cooling. 

Strawberries are an agreeable, cooling aliment, and are 
accounted good in cases of gravel. 

Cucumbers are cooling, and agreeable to the palate in hot 
weather; but to prevent them from proving hurtful to the 
stomach, the juice ought to be squeezed out after they are 
sliced, and vinegar, pepper, and salt, afterward added. 

Tea. By some, the use of this exotic is condemned in 
terms the most vehement and unqualified, while others have 
either asserted its innocence, or gone so far as to ascribe to it 
salubrious, and even extraordinary virtues. The truth seems 
to lie between these two extremes ; there is, however, an essen- 
tial difference in the effects of green tea and of black, or of 
bohea ; the former of which is much more apt to affect the 
nerves of the stomach, than the latter, more especially when 
drank without cream, and likewise without bread and butter. 
That, taken in a large quantity, or at a later hour than usual, 
tea often produces watchfulness, is a point that cannot be de- 
nied ; but if used in moderation, and accompanied with the 
additions just now mentioned, it does not sensibly discover any 
hurtful effects, but greatly relieves an oppression of the stomach, 
and abates a pain of the head. It ought always to be made of 
a moderate degree of strength; for if too weak it certainly re- 
laxes the stomach. As it has an astringent taste, which seems 
not very consistent with a relaxing power, there is ground foi 
ascribing this effect not so much to the herb itself as to the hot 
water, which not being impregnated with a sufficient quantity 
of tea, to correct its own emollient tendency, produces a relaxa- 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 421 

tion, unjustly imputed to some noxious quality of 'the plant. 
But tea, like every other commodity, is liable to damage, and 
when this happens, it may produce effects not necessarily con- 
nected with its original qualities. 

Coffee. It is allowed that coffee promotes digestion, and 
exhilarates the animal spirits ; besides which, various other 
qualities are ascribed to it, such as dispelling flatulency, re- 
moving dizziness of the head, attenuating viscid humors, in- 
creasing the circulation of the blood, and consequently perspira- 
tion ; but if drank too strong, it affects the nerves, occasions 
watchfulness, and tremor of the hands; though in some phleg- 
matic constitutions it is apt to produce sleep. Indeed, it is to 
persons of that habit that coffee is well accommodated ; for 
to people of a thin and dry habit of body it seems to be inju- 
rious. Turkey coffee is greatly preferable in flavor to that of 
the West, Indies. Drank only in the quantity of one dish, 
after dinner, to promote digestion, it answers best without 
either sugar or milk ; but if taken at other times, it should 
have both ; or in place of the latter, rather cream, which not 
only improves the beverage, but tends to mitigate the effect 
of coffee upon the nerves. 

Chocolate is a nutritive and wholesome composition, if 
taken in a small quantity, and not repeated too often ; but is 
generally hurtful to the stomach of those with whom a vegeta- 
ble diet disagrees. By the addition of vanilla and other ingre- 
dients, it is made too heating, and so much affects particular 
constitutions as to excite nervous symptoms, especially com- 
plaints of the head. 

Men with unassuming wives never fail. It is the husbands 
of such women as Mrs. Dash and Lady Brilliant who find 
themselves face to face with the sheriff, and certain mysteri- 
ous documents, adorned with red tape and wafers, big enough 
for target exercise. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



INTRODUCTION. 



IMPORTANT HINTS TO COOKS. 



PAGE. 

General Observations, 7 

Batter 7 

Carrots, 7 

Cauliflowers, 7 

Celery, 7 



PAGE. 

Game 7 

Gravies, 8 

Lard, 8 

Sago 8 

A WOBD FOE THE Dl>'NER TABLE, 8 



CHAPTER I. 



ON CARVING. 



General Remarks, 11 

An Aitch-bone of Beef, 12 

Ribs of Beef, 12 

TheSfrloin of Beef, 13 

Fillet of Veal, 13 

NeckofVeal 13 

Breast of Veal, 14 

Loin of Veal 14 

Shoulder of Veal, 14 

Calf's Head 15 

Les of Mutton, 15 

Shoulder of Mutton, 18 

Loin of Mutton, 16 

Neck of Mutton, 17 

Sera? of Mutton, 17 

Saddle of Mutton, 17 

Hauncii of Mutton, 17 

Fore-quarter of Lamb, 17 

Haunch of Venison, 18 

Neck of Venison, 18 

Pork, 18 

Ham IS 

Boiled Tongue, 19 

Roast Pig, 19 

Rabbit, 19 

Roast Hare 19 

Boiled Rabbit 20 

Roast Chickens and Turkey, 20 



Boiled Fowls 21 

Broiled Chickens, 21 

Geese 21 

Pheasant 22 

Guinea Fowl, 22 

Partridse 22 

Quails, "Reed-Birds, &c, 22 

Grouse and Plover 22 

Snipe and Woodcock, 22 

Wild Duck and Widgeon, 22 

Pigeon, 23 

FISH. 

Middle Cut of Salmon, 23 

Turbot 24 

Cod's Head and Shoulders 24 

Haddock, .' 24 

Mackerel , 25 

butcher's JOINTS. 

Beef, 25 

Veal 26 

Pork, 26 

Mutton, 27 

Venison, 27 

To Choose Meats, 28 

poultky and game, 29 

Fish, 80 

Shell Fish, 30 



CHAPTER II. 

SOUPS. 



General Directions, 32 

MEAT SOUPS. 

White Soup, 34 

Gravy Soup, 84 



Beef Gravy, 34 

Gravv — Clear, 35 

BeefSoup, 85 

Sago Soup, 86 



424 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Baked Soup, 86 

Curry Soap, 36 

Boap and LJouilli, 36 

Hessian Soap 37 

Maccaroni Soup, 3T 

French Soap, % • • • 37 

Portable Soap, 37 

Vermicelli Soup, 33 

Mutton Soup 38 

Chicken Broil 39 

Egg Dumplings for 8onp, 39 

Egg Balk for Soup, 39 

SOUPS OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

Pigeon Soup 39 

Partridge Soup, 40 

Chicken Soup, 40 

CalTa Head Soup, 40 



PAGE. 
FISH SOUPS. 

Eel Soup 41 

Clam Soup. 41 

Lobster Soup, 42 

Oyster Soup, 42 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

Vegetable Soup, 42 

Cabbage Soup 43 

Asparagus Soup, with Green Peas,*. 44 

Asparagus Soup — Clear, 44 

Hotch Potch, '. 44 

Onion Soup, 44 

Celery Soup, 44 

Bice Soup 45 

Clear Pea Soup, 45 

Green Pea Soup, 45 

Pea Soup, 45 



CHAPTER III. 



BEEF. 



Obsci rations on Meats, 47 

Boast Meats, 49 

Boiling 49 

Broiling 50 

Boast Beef, 50 

To Collar Beef, 51 

To cook the inside of a Sirloin, 52 

Fillet of Beef— Boasted, 52 

Alamode Beef 52 

Fillet, or Bound of Beef— Spiced, . . 53 

Beef Olives 53 

Hunter's Beef, 53 

Bump Steak— Stewed, 54 

Beef Palates 54 

Steaks— Broiled 54 

Steaks Boiled and Boasted, ... 55 

Stewed Beef Steaks, 55 



Beef Kidneys — Stewed 55 

Cake 56 

Heart, 56 

Collops, 56 

Brisket of Beef— Stewed, 57 

Stew of Ox-Cheek, 57 

Beef Saunders, 57 

A Beef Stew, 58 

Beef Hashed, 58 

To Dress Beef Tongues, 69 

To Stew a Tongue, 59 

Beef Sausages, 59 

Broth 59 

Marrow Bones, 59 

Tripe, 60 

Smoked Beef, 80 

Potted Beef, 01 



CHAPTER IV. 



VEAL. 



General Observations, 62 

The Fillet of Veal 62 

Breast of Veal — Forced, 63 

Shoulder of Veal, 63 

Loi D of Veal — Stewed, 63 

Loin of Veal 63 

Knuckle of Veal — Stewed, 63 

Neck of Veal 64 

Veal Cutlets 64 

Cutlets — Curried, 64 

Veal Pot Pie, 65 



Olives of Veal— Eoti, 65 

Veal Collops, 88 

Calf's Head 66 

Calves' Ears, 66 

Boiled Veal 67 

Calves' Feet, 67 

Calves' Feet — Fricaseed, 67 

Calf's Heart, 67 

Kidney, 67 

Liver, 63 



CHAPTER V. 

MUTTON. 

General Bern arks 69 Leg of Mutton— Boasted, 70 

Haunch of Mutton, 69 Boast Leg of Mutton — Boned and 

Saddle of Mutton, 70 Stuffed, 70 



GENERAL INDEX. 



425 



PAGE. 

Shoulder of Mutton, 70 

Loin of Mutton — Stewed, 71 

Breast of Mutton, 71 

Alaraode Mutton — A Leg, 71 

Mutton Steaks, 71 

Chops — Broiled, 72 

Chops— Fried, 72 

Cutlets, 72 

Fillet of Mutton, 73 



PAGE. 

Hash, 73 

Hashed Mutton, 73 

Mutton like Venison, 73 

Hams 74 

To Dress Mutton Hams, 74 

Mutton Kidneys — Broiled, 74 

Sheep's Tongues — Stewed, 74 

Irish Stow, 74 



CHAPTER VI. 



LAMB. 



General Remarks, 7(3 

Fore-quarter of Larnb — Koasted, ... 76 

To Roast a Leg of Lamb, 76 

To Boil a Leg of Lamb,' 77 

Stowed Loin of Lamb, 77 



To Stew a Breast of Lamb, 77 

Lamb Stewed with Peas. 77 

Sweetbreads Fricaseed — Brown,... 78 

Lamb Chops, 78 



CHAPTER VII. 



PORK. 



General Remarks, 79 

Roast Pig— Served Whole, 79 

Roast Pisr. 80 

A Le<? of Pork— Roasted, 80 

Loin of Pork SO 

A Fillet of Pork to resemble Veal,. 81 

Griskin of Pork, 81 

Spare Rib of Pork— Roast, 81 

Chine of Pork, 81 

Pork Steak 81 

Cutlets, 82 

Sausages — Fine, 82 



Simple Sausages, 82 

Pork Sausages — English, 83 

Souse 83 

Pig's Head— Baked 83 

Pig's Feet— Stewed, 84 

Ham Rashers, or Slices, 84 

Boiled Ham .- 84 

To Bake a Ham, 85 

Ham and Eg<rs — Fried, 85 

To try out Lard, 85 

To melt Lard, „ 86 

Head Cheese, 86 



CHAPTER VIII. 



POULTRY. 



General Remarks, 8S 

Roast Turkey, S9 

Boiled Turkey 90 

Roast and Baked Goose, 91 

To Roast Ducks, 92 

To Boil Ducks 92 

Stewed Ducks 92 

Can vass Back Ducks, 92 

Boiled Fowl, 93 



Roast Fowl 93 

To Fricassee a Fowl, 94 

Fowl— Broiled 94 

To Grill Cold Fowl, 94 

Chicken Pot Fie 94 

Chickens Pulled 95 

Chicken and Turkey Patties, 95 

Salad, 95 



CHAPTER IX. 

GAME, ETC. 



Venison — The Haunch, 97 

Venison Steaks, 98 

To Hash Venison 93 

A Shoulder of Venison— Stewed, ... 98 

Neck and Shoulder of Venison 99 



Pheasants, 99 

Partridges 99 

Partridge— Broiled, 100 

Hares, 100 

Rabbits, 100 



426 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Boiled Rabbits ' 101 

Pigeons — Roasted, 101 

PigeoBS— Broiled, 101 

Pigeons — Stewed, 101 



PAGE. 

Roast "Woodcock, Snipe, &c, 102 

Small Birds— Broiled, 102 

Cutlets of Fowl and Game, ll>2 



CHAPTER X. 

SALT AND FRESH WATER FISH. 



Observations on Cleaning and Dress- 
ing Fish 108 

Fresh Cod— Boiled, 105 

Baked Cod, 105 

Broiled Fresh Cod, 106 

Crimped Cod, 106 

Cod's Head 106 

c.d Omelet, 10G 

Stewed Salt Cod, 107 

Codfish Balls 107 

Fish Balls 107 

Codfish Toast 1<>7 

Buttered Codfish 1 8 

Plain Boiled Salt Codfish, 103 

To Boil Haddocks 103 

To Stew Haddocks, 103 

Haddock to Broil, 109 

Herrings, 109 

Fresh Herrintrs -Broiled, 109 

Halibut— Stewed HO 

To Stew Lobsters 110 

To Roast Lobsters, 110 

Lobster— Cold, 110 

Fresh Mackerel— Boiled ill 

To Broil Fresh Mackerel, Ill 

Salt Mackerel Ill 

Scallop Oysters, Ill 

Boast Oysters 112 

Baked, or Scalloped Oysters, 112 

Stewed Oysters 112 

Stewed Oysters — Another, 112 

Oyster Fritters, 113 



Fried Oysters, 

Oysters, 

Fried Oysters.to garnish Boiled Fish, 

Pickled Oysters, 

Oyster Pie 

Oyster Pancakes, . . • 

Chowder 

Fresh Salmon — Boiled, 

Salmon — Roasted, 

Collared Salmon, 

Salmon — Broiled, 

Smoked Salmon, 

Bake Shad 

Broiled Shad, 

To Boil Shad, 

Sturgeon — Broiled, 

Sturgeon — Roasted, 

Sturgeon Cutlets 

Eel's Bread Crumbed, 

Fried Fels, 

Boiled Fels 

Stewed Tautog, or Black Fish 

Tn.ut 

Trout — Stewed, 

Turcot 

Pike and Pickerel, 

Soft Shell Clams— Stewed 

Hard Shell Clams— Fried 

Chowder 

Fish Salads 

Fish Force Meat Balls, 



113 
113 
113 
113 
114 
114 
114 
115 
145 
116 
116 
116 
116 
116 
11 r 
117 
117 
117 
117 
115 
113 
US 
11< 
113 
119 
119 
119 
119 
180 
120 
120 



CHAPTER XI. 



SAUCES. 



General Remarks, 121 

Anchovy Sauce, .•. 121 

j^pple Sauce. 121 

Bread Sauce, 121 

Bread Sauce — Another 122 

Sauce — Brown 122 

Caper Sauee for Fish, 122 

Cranberrv Sauce, 122 

Cod Sauce 123 

Cream Sauce, 123 

E«g Sauce 128 

Fresh Pork Sauce, 128 

Garlic Sauce 123 

Horseradish Sauce — Hot 124 

Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowls,.... 124 

Lemon Sauce for Puddings, 124 

Lemon Conserve, ^ 124 



Mint Sauce, 125 

Lobster Sauce, 125 

Mushroom Sauce, 125 

Oyster Sauce, 125 

Onion Sauce, 126 

Sueet Sauce, 126 

Pudding Sauce 1J6 

Sauee for Wild Fowls, 126 

White Sauee 12T 

Superior Sauce, for PIumi Pod"Wng, 127 
Tomato Sauce, for hot or cold Meats, 127 

Wine Sauce 1J7 

"White Sauce, for Fricasee of Fowls, 

&c 128 

Venison Sauce 128 

Farces and Stuffings 123 

Force Meat Ingredients, 129 



GENERAL INDEX. 



427 



CHAPTER XII: 

VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 



PAGK 

General Remarks, 180 

Asparagus , . 131 

Asperse a La Pois — French Recipe, 181 

Beets.. • 132 

Broccoli, 132 

Green, or Stringed Beans, 132 

Celery 133 

Cabbage and Cauliflowers 133 

Cabbage Salad, and Cold Slaw, .... 133 

Red Cabbage, 133 

Carrots 134 

Stewed Cucumbers, 134 

Greens 134 

Lettuce 134 

1 F t > m i ny, 1 35 

Onions, 135 

Green Peas 135 

Peas Stewed in Cream, 136 

How to Cook Potatoes 186 

To Boil New Potatoes 136 

To Boil Irish Potatoes, 137 

Roasted Potatoes, 137 



PAGE. 

Potatoes in Haste, 137 

Fried or Broiled Potatoes, 137 

Potatoes Glazed 133 

Potato Rissoles, 133 

Potato Ragout, 135, 

Porridge, or Soup of Potatoes, 13S 

To Mash Potatoes, 133 

Potato Balls 139 

Sweet Potatoes — Baked, 139 

Parsnip Fritters, 139 

Parsnips, 139 

Radishes, 139 

Squashes, 140 

Green Sweet Corn 140 

Seakale U0 

Porridge of Turnips, 140 

Broiled Mushrooms, 141 

Salad 141 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oj'ster, ... ... 142 

Tomatoes, . . . 142 

Tomatoes Raw, 142 

Southern Mode of Boiling Rice, 142 



CHAPTER XIII. 

POTTED MEATS. 



Beef Potted, 144 

Beef Potted like Venison 144 

Birds Potted — How to Preserve 

them 145 

Cheese Potted 145 

Chicken, or Ham Potted, 145 



Game of all kinds Potted, 146 

Lobsters Potted, 146 

Partridge Potted, 146 

Pigeons Potted, 147 

Vea! Potted, 147 

Venison Potted, 14S 



CHAPTER XIV. 

PASTE, MEAT, FRUIT, AND FISH PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, TART 
LETS, PUFFS, ETC. 



General Remarks, 149 

Puff Paste, for Patties 150 

Very Superior Suet Crust, 150 

Paste for Borders of Dishes, 151 

Fancy Pastry, 151 

Sandwich Pastry 151 

Sweet, or Biscuit Crust, 152 

Beef Steak Pie 152 

Cold Veal, or Chicken Pie, 152 

Fish Pie U3 

Giblet Pie, 153 

Pie Raised, to he Served Hot,... . 153 

Pork Pies, to Eat Cold 154 

Veal, or Chicken aud Parsley Pie, . . 154 

Family Pie Crust, 155 

Mince Pie, . 155 

Pies, without Meat, 156 

Pies. 156 



Lemon Mince Pies, 156 

Pies, 157 

Apple Mince Pies, 157 

Pumpkin Pie, 157 

Another 153 

Squash Pies, 153 

Apjde Pie, 153 

F>i ieil Apple Pie 15S 

Currant and Gooseherry Pies, 159 

Cranberry Pie, or Tarts, 159 

Rhubarb Pie, 159 

Apricot Pie 160 

Red Sugar Beet Pie, 160 

Cocoannt Pie 160 

Huckle. or Whortleberry Pie, 160 

Tomato Pie 161 

Blackberry Pie, . . 161 

Cream Pies 161 



428 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PACE. 

Sweet Marlborough Pic, 161 

Plain Custard Pie, *. 163 

Cherry Pie 162 

Lemon Pie 168 

Lemon Padding, I'"''- 2 

Lemon Tart, 168 

Peach Pie 168 

Corn Starch Pie, 163 

DIKECTIONS FOR PUDDINGS. 

Baked Apple Pudding 168 

Boiled Apple Padding 168 

Plain Boiled Indian Pudding, 104 

Corn Meal Pudding, 164 

Eve's Padding, 164 

Plum Pudding 164 

English Plum Pudding, 105 

Cocoanut Padding 165 

Sunderland Padding 165 

Custard Pudding— Baked, 165 

Apricot Pudding, 105 

Batter Pudding 165 

Batter Pudding— Boiled 106 

Batter Pudding, with or without 

Sugar 160 

Barley Pudding, 166 

Bread Padding 166 

Plain Bread Pudding— Baked, 167 

Economical Pudding, 167 

Carrot Padding 167 

Custard Pudding — Boiled, 107 

Apple Charlotte, 107 

Charlotte, 168 

Citmn Padding 16S 

Currant Pudding, 168 

Cherry Padding,. 108 

Flour Padding 169 

Dried Apple Pudding— Boiled, — 100 

Jenny Lind Pudding, 109 

Lemon Pudding 170 

Marrow Padding — Baked, 170 

Chicken Padding, 1T0 

Mutton Pudding," 170 

Muilin Pudding. 171 

Oatmeal Pudding, 171 

Orange Pudding 171 

English Christinas Plum Padding, 171 

Potato Pudding 172 

Derbyshire Padding 172 

Paddings in Haste, 172 

Quaking Pudding, 172 

Quince Padding, 172 

Potato Padding 178 

Almond Padding — Boiled, 173 

Plum Padding— Boiled, 173 

Cream Pndding 173 

Custard Pudding 173 

Custard Pudding— Boiled, 173 

1 tellcate Pice Padding, 171 

Roly IN.lv " 174 

German Toast 174 



PAC7R. 

Elce Padding, with Currants, 1 74 

Ground Bice Podding 175 

Bice Pudding with Bruit, 175 

Bago Pudding 175 

Baet Padding 1 7.3 

Sweetmeat Pudding, 170 

Tapioca Pudding 170 

Treacle Padding 170 

Vermicelli Pudding 170 

Apple Tapicoa Padding, 177 

Minute Pudding, 177 

Corn Puddings, 177 

Cracker Pudding 177 

Apples in Butter 177 

Corn Starch Pndding, 178 

Summer Snowballs, 178 

Sponge Padding 17-^ 

Biscuit Padding,. 178 

Indian Pudding— Baked, 17'.* 

Spotted Dick 179 

Indian Pudding — Boiled, 1 79 

Boiling Mush 179 

Apple Dumplings, 179 

Oxford Dumplings ISO 

Simple Desserts for Summer ISO 

Curd 

Floating Island 1SI 

Yeast Dumplings, W 

Lemon Dumplings, 181 

Dough Dumplings, 181 

Tartlets 181 

Apple Tart 1S2 

Bird's Nest Pudding, 182 

Apricot Tart, 183 

Apricot Sweetmeat, for Tarts, 188 

CherryTart, 188 

Currant Tart, 183 

Damson Tart, 1S4 

Grape Tart 194 

Gooseberry Tart, 181 

Pear Tart." 184 

Quince Tart 184 

Raspberry Tart 1S4 

Raspberry Tart, with Cream, 185 

Rhubarb Tart 185 

Strawberry Tart, l v 5 

Tartlets, .' 185 

Almond Sweetmeats — Yellow, l*«6 

To cut out Patty Cakes, &e 1^0 

To Neutralize the Acid in Fruit, 

Pies, fee 1S7 

Oyster Patties 187 

Meat Patties 18T 

Marrow Patties 1S7 

Turnovers 1SS 

Apricot PuflB 1S8 

A Mixed Jam for Tarts, 1SS 

Curd Pufls 188 

Pofla » 183 

Meringues, 189 



GENERAL INDEX. 



429 



CHAPTER XV. 

PANCAKES, FRITTERS, MUFFINS, AND WAFFLES. 



PAGE. 

Buckwheat Cakes, 190 

Flour Pancakes, 190 

Cream Pancakes, 191 

Pancakes a La Francaise, 191 

Indian Griddle Cakes, 191 

Apple Fritters 191 

Kice Pancakes, 192 

Apple Fritters — Excellent, 192 

Cream Fritters, 192 

Oyster Fritters, 192 

Plain Fritters, 192 



PAGE. 

Corn Oysters 193 

Apple Fritters 193 

Fritters au Blanc, 193 

Orange Fritters, 193 

Ovster Fritters 194 

Muffins 194 

Indian Meal Muffins 194 

Flour Waffles— Raised, 1 94 

Quick Waffles, 195 

Rice Waffles, 195 



CHAPTER XVI. 

EGGS AND OMELETS. 



Esfss— Boiled, 196 

Eggs— Poached, 196 

To "Dress Eiigs, 197 

Scotch Esigs, 197 

Omelet, 197 

Omelet au Naturel, 197 



Onion Omelet, 19S 

Omelet, with Ham, &c, 193 

Omelet Fritters, 19S 

Omelet Souffle 198 

A Simple Sweet Omelet, 199 

Apple Souffle, with Rice, 199 



CHAPTER XVIII. 



BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 



To make. Butter 200 

preserve Butter for Winter, '200 

make Yellow Butter in Winter, 201 

Freshen Salt Butter, 201 

Clarify Butter, 201 

Cold Butter for Tea, or Breakfast, ... 201 

Melted Butter, without boiling, 202 

To make Cheese, 202 

The best Cheese in the World, 202 

To prepare Rennet, 203 

To keep Cheese— English Method,.. 203 

Apricot Cheese, 204 

Artificial Cheese, 204 

Cream, -..204 



Cheese Cream and Marmalado, 205 

as Iced Butter, 205 

Cream, Iced, 205 

Damson Cheese, 205 

Cheese— Fresh, 206 

Fritters, 206 

Puffs, 206 

Roasted 206 

Rice Cheese, 207 

Sase Cheese, 207 

Cheese Toasted, or Welsh Rabbit,. . 20T 

Toast, 2d7 

Pot Cheese, 207 



CHAPTER XVIII. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, 

Custards, 203 

Apple Custard, 208 

Almond Custard, 209 

Custards — Boiled, 209 

Soft Custards 209 

Custards— Baked, 209 

Cream Custard, 2 9 

Custard— Plain 210 

Cherry Custard, 210 

Lemon Custard, 210 



JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. 

Orange Custard, 210 

Rice Custard, without Cream, 211 

CREAMS. 

Apricot Cream, 211 

Orange Cream, 211 

Ice Cream 211 

W hipped Cream, 212 

Excellent Cream, 212 

Chocolate — Whipped Cream, 212 

Cherry Ice Cream, 213 



430 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Currant Ice Cream, 213 

Cream 213 

Gooseberry Cream, 213 

Lem<>n Ice (roam, 218 

Strawberry ('roam 214 

Ice Cream, 214 

Cream Hasty 214 

Snow Cream,. 214 

To keep < 'ream 214 

Cream an Naturel, 214 

Tine Apple Cream ' 215 

Raspberry and Currant Cream, 215 

Cream Strawberries, 215 

Rhenish Cream, 215 

Vanilla Cream, 215 

Gooseberry Fool, 210 

Apple Fool 21G 

Trifle, 216 

[CBS. 

Icing for Cakes, 217 

Another 21S 

Almond Icing for Bride Cake, 218 

Icing for Tarts, 213 

Currant lee, 218 

Pine Apple !<••• 2 S 

Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream, 219 

Cherry Ice, ..." 219 

Currants to Ice, 219 

Charlotte Russe 219 

Currant Ice Cream, 220 

Ices, 220 

JELLIES. 
Apple Jelly— Clear, 220 



PACK. 

Apple Jelly 221 

Quince Jelly, '_'•_' I 

Apricot Jelly, 221 

Lemon Jelly 221 

Strawberry, Raspberry, and Black- 
berry Jelly, ". 

Cranberry, Grape, and Currant Jel- 
ly 222 

Currant Jelly, 222 

Cherry Jelly, 228 

Moss Jelly,. 228 

Calve's Foot Jelly, 228 

Another 224 

Lemon Jelly 224 

Tapioca Jelly, 224 

Sago Jelly. . ". 225 

Ratafia without Liquor or Syrup,.. 225 

Wine Jelly ". 225 

Coloring for Jellies, Cakes, &c, .... 226 
MARMALADES. 

Marmalade of Apples 220 

Transparent Marmalade 221 

Apricot Marmalade, 227 

Cherry Marmalade 221 

Currant .Marmalade 226 

Orange Mai malade, 22S 

Quince Marmalade £28 

Raspberry Marmalade 222 

BLANCMANGE. 

Rice Blancmange 229 

Corn Starch Blancmange, 229 

Blancmange, 28'J 



CHAPTER XIX. 

CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVED FRUITS, ETC. 



To Clarify Sugar, 

Colored Sngars for Ornamenting, .. . 

Green Sugar, 

Sugar Paste 

To Candy Fruit, 

Ornamental Frosting, 

Lemon Candy 

Molasses ( Sandy 

To Preserve Apricots, 

Apricots la Brandy 

To Preserve Peaches 

Golden Pippins, 

To Bake Apples \V hole 

Apples Preserved In Slices, 

Bottled Asparagus, 

Barberries 

Barberries for Tartlets 

Biscuit of Preserved Fruits, and 

Sweetmeats, 

Black Tops 

Cherries in Brandy, 

Dried without Sugar 

Preserved Dry in Bunches, 

to Candy, 

to Keep, 

Jam, 



232 Black Currant Jam 239 

233 Currant Jam of all Colors 239 

233 Currants Preserved 240 

288 for Tarts 240 

233 White Citron Preserved 240 

234 Dried Damson* 240 

284 To keep Damsons 241 

284 Preserve Fruits for Tarts. Ac.,.. 241 

284 Gherkins for Salads, or Pickled, 211 

235 Gooseberries Preserved, 241 

235 Gooseberry Jain, 242 

236 Peach Jam, 

236 Grapes Preserved in Clusters, 242 

236 Green Gases, . 242 

237 Green Gages— Dried, 213 

237 Jam 213 

237 To keep Oranges or Lemons, for 

Puddings, 213 

237 To Preserve Nectarines, 243 

237 Pears— Baked 244 

288 to Keep 244 

238 Jargonelle 244 

288 Preserved 245 

239 Peaches — Preserved, 245 

239 Plums— Candied 246 

239 Preserved, 246 



GENERAL INDEX. 



431 



PAGE. 

Quinces — Preserved, 246 

to Keep 247 

Raspberries — To Keep 247 

Preserved, 247 

Raspberry Jam, 247 

Apple Snow, 24S 

Pine Apples, 248 



PAGE. 

Quinces, for the Table, 248 

Rhubarb — Preserved, 248 

Siberian Crabs — Preserved, 249 

Strawberry Jam. 249 

Strawberries — Preserved in Wine,. 249 

Preserved Whole,... 249 

Tomato Figs, 250 



CHAPTER XX. 



PICKLES. 



Asparagus, 252 

Beans— French, 252 

Cabbage— Eed, 252 

White, 253 

Celery, 253 

Cucumbers — Young, 253 

East India Pickle, 254 

Green Tomato, 254 

Lemons, 254 

Mushrooms 254 

Mushroom Ketchup, 255 

Nasturtion •. .. 255 



Neat's Tongue, 255 

Onions, 256 

Mangoes 256 

Nasturtions, 257 

Peaches, 257 

Peppers, 257 

Plums— To Pickle like Olives, 257 

Plums 258 

Quinces, 25S 

Tomato Ketchup, 25S 

Walnut Ketchup 258 



CHAPTER XXI. 

CAKES, BUNS, BISCUIT, BREAD, ETC. 



Requisite Information for Making 

and Baking Cakes 

Crust, Short and Rich, 

Short, 

Apple Cake, 

Almond Drops, 

Small Cakes 



Icing, 



Banbury Cakes, 

Baba, 

Bride Cake, 

Another, 

Breakfast, or Tea Cakes, Hot,. 

Whigs 

Diet Bread 

Butter Cakes, 

Biscuit of any kind of Fruit, . . 

Cheesecakes, 

Another, 

Cheesecakes — Common, 

Boston Cream Cakes, 

Country Cream Cakes, 

Rich Cream Cake, 

Cream Cake, 

Cru mpets, 

Cup Cake, , 

Cretin Cup Cake, 

< • rn Cake, 

L lieesecake — Apple, , 

Almond, 

Citron, 

Lemon, 

Orange, 

Chorry Calces, 



Cinnamon Cakes, 271 

260 Currant Cakes, 271 

262 Caraway Cakes, 271 

262 Curd Cakes, 271 

262 Cookies, 272 

262 Crackers 272 

263 Butter Crackers, 272 

263 Drop Cakes, 272 

263 Another, 273 

264 Rye Drop Cakes, 273 

264 Soda Dousrhnuts 273 

265 Doughnuts, 273 

265 Doughnuts with Sugar, 274 

265 Crullers, 274 

266 Frosting for Cake, 275 

266 Fruit Cake— Rich, 275 

266 Fried Cak«s, 276 

266 Family Cake, 276 

267 Ginger Snaps, 276 

267 Ginger Nuts, 276 

267 Gingerbread 277 

26S Hard Gingerbread, 277 

263 Soft Gingerbread 277 

263 Nice Gingerbread 277 

263 Gingerbread with Fruit, 278 

269 Sugar Gingerbread, 278 

269 Gooseberrv Cake, 278 

269 Honey Cake 278 

269 Indian Breakfast Cakes, 278 

269 Indian Light Biscuit, 279 

270 Jumbles 279 

270 JohnnyCakes, 279 

270 Kisses 280 

271 LoafCake 280 



432 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAGE. 

A Lijrht Cake to Bake in Cups, 250 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake, 880 

Tliin Pound Cake, 2S1 

Barnard Cake, 2S1 

Lemon Cake 281 

Macaroons 2SI 

Spiced 281 

New Year's Cookies* 2S2 

Pound Cake 238 

Pound Cakes, Plum or Plain, 2S2 

A Good Plum Cake, 288 

Cider Cake, 288 

Rich Plum Cake, 283 

Wedding Cake, 284 

Queen's Cake, 284 

Railroad Cake, 284 

Rice Puffs 2S4 

Raspberry Cake- 2S4 

Pout Cakes, 2S5 

Rice Cake 285 

Rice Pound Cake 2S5 

Savoy Cake 2S5 

Sponge Cake , 2SG 

A Small Sponge Cake, 2S6 

Bponge Cake, 2 t >7 

Rich Sponge Cake, 2S7 

Sugar Drops, 2S7 

Cakes, 2S5 

Seed Cakes 2>S 

Shrewsberry Cake 288 

Soft Cake in Little Pans, 288 

Soda Cake, 2S3 

Spice Cake 288 

Twelfth. Oake, 289 

Tea Cak.-s 289 

Cream Tea Cakes, 290 

P'ain Tea Cakes 290 

Washington Cake, 290 



PAOE. 

Muffins 290 

Hard Waffles, 290 

Wafers, . . : 291 

Ratafias, 291 

Buns 291 

Bath Buns 292 

Buns — Common, 292 

Buns— Plum, 292 

Seed Puns, 298 

Rusk 898 

BREAD, BISCUIT, YKA8T, ETC. 

"Wheat Bread 293 

Excellent Bread 291 

Boston Brown Bread, 295 

Premium Bread, 295 

Brown Graham Bread, 296 

Rich Corn Bread ?96 

Boston Bye and Indian Bread, 896 

Saso Bread, 

Diet Bread 297 

Potato Bread 

Pice Uivad 297 

Rye Bread 897 

Battered Loaves, 898 

French Rolls 

Butter Biscuits.. 

Soda Biscuits 

Potato Biscuits '_'»'.! 

Baker's Rolls 5 9 

Tea Rusks 300 

Bally Lunn, 

Yeast 800 

Milk Yeast 3d 

Potato Yeast 

Yeast 

Yeast Cakes, 302 

Berry Shortcake 802 



CHAPTER XXII. 

COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA. 



Coffee S03 

A Substitute for Cream for Coffee,.. 804 

Coffee to Roast, 304 

Milk, 305 

Cream, 305 

Au Creme 305 

to give the Favor of Vanilla,. 805 

Ice a Lltalienne, 305 



Coffee Frothed, or Whipped 30- : 

Jelly 3- G 

Chocolate, 

Drops 

Bon-Bons, 807 

Tea, »)7 

Cream, 308 

Ice 308 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

HOME MADE WINES. 



Apple Wine, 809 

Apricot Wine, 810 

Balm Wine 310 

Birch Wine, 311 

Blackberry Wine, 311 



Cherry Wine, 812 

Clary Wine 819 

Currant Wine 813 

Damson Wine, 814 

Elder Wine, 814 



GENERAL INDEX. 



433 



PAGE. 

Ginger Wine 314 

Gooseberry Wine, 314 

Grape Wine 315 

Mountain Wine, 315 

Parsnip Wine, 315 



PAGE. 

Rasin Wine 316 

Raspberry Wine, 316 

Walnut Wine 316 

Raspberry Vinegar, 317 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

LIQUORS, BEVERAGES, ETC. 



Cherry Brandy, 318 

Capillaire 313 

Bippocraa 319 

Lemonade, 319 

Mead 319 

Frontinac, 320 

Sack, 320 

Noveau 320 

Orangeade 321 

Punch 321 

Milk, 321 



Ratafia of four Fruits, 321 

Shrub 822 

Currant Shrub, 322 

Lemon Shrub 322 

Wholesome Beverage, 322 

Spring Beer .". *. 323 

Ginger Beer, 323 

W h ite Spr uce Beer, 324 

Harvest Drink 324 

Cream Soda, 324 



CHAPTER XXV. 

PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 



Apple Water, 325 

Egg Gruel, 325 

Arrow Root, 825 

A Nourishing Jelly, 32G 

Beef Tea, 326 

Toast and Water 326 

Waters for Cooling Draughts, 326 

Water Gruel 826 

Milk Porridge, 327 



Wine Whev 327 

Chicken, Beef, or Veal Broth, 327 

Hot Leinouade, 328 

Rice Gruel, 328 

Eire: Cream, 328 

Caudle, 828 

The Cook's Table of Weights and 

Measures, 329 



CHAPTER XXVI. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



Blacking. 330 

To know good Flour, 380 

Clean Decanters, 831 

Cleaning Floor Cloths, 831 

Good Shaving Soap, 831 

To Keep the Hands Soft, 331 

Prevent Iron Rusting, 331 

Clean Turkey Carpets, 332 

Clean Water Casks, 332 

Detect Whiting or Chalk in Flour 332 

A Substitute for White Oil Paint,.. 332 

To take Smell from Fresh Paint, . . . 333 

Cement for Iron Ware, 333 

A cheap and durable Cement, 333 

Black Ink, 333 

Beeswax, 334 

Fences, 334 

Hard Cement for Seams, 334 

To clean China, 335 

clean Plate 335 

clean Oil Paintings, 335 

Economy in Fuel, 335 

s 



Good Vinegar, 336 

Cider Vinegar, 336 

To Blacken Stone Chimney-pieces, . 336 

Tracing Paper, 336 

Cement for Iron Flues, 337 

To Extract Marking Ink, 337 

Prevent cold Feet in Bed, 337 

Economical use of Nutmeg, ... 337 

To Extinguish a Fire, 338 

Frost-bitten Fruits and Vegetables, 338 
To Prevent Teakettles coating with 

Lime, 338 

Furniture Polish 338 

To make Hard Water Soft, 338 

Herbs for Drying, 339 

To Clarify Honey, 339 

Separate WXx from the Comb, . . 340 

Prevent Ink from Freezing, 340 

Make Stair Carpets Last, 340 

Cold Soap, 340 

Soap 340 

To Sew Stiff Cloth Easily, 340 

28 



434 



GENERAL INDEX. 



paor. 

To clean Knives, 841 

Bra-s ami Copper Cooking Utensils, 341 
To Relieve the Breath from Onions, 341 

Essences, 341 

Butter 841 

To Preserve Came in Hot Weather, 341 
Russian Method of Preserving Fish, 342 

Starch. 342 

White Satin 342 

To elean Gold or Silver Lace, 342 

Remove Rust from Steel, 342 

Black Ball, 342 

Cement for Corked Bottles 343 

To Prevent Mould in Books, Ac.,.. 343 

Destroy Ants 343 

For Boiling Rats 344 

To keep BugB from Vines, 344 

Soap 344 

Isinglass, 344 

Iron Spots on Marble, 344 

Ink Spots .. 846 

Offensive Smells, 345 

To Preserve Eggs, 345 

Perfume Linen, 345 

Rats and Mice 346 

To Restore Stale Beer, 346 

Rice Milk 346 

To take Stains out of Silk 346 

Extract Grease from Silks, Ac.,. 846 
A Substitute for Milk or Cream,. . . 347 
To take Milk from Cream, 347 

Preserve Milk, 847 

Ventilation, 347 

Composition for Colored Drawings, 343 

A Varnish to Color Baskets, 843 

Court Plaster 34S 

To Renew Bread and Cake 349 

Preserve Cheese from Insects,.. 349 

Blue Ink, 850 

Red Ink 350 

Indelible Ink, 350 

Hard Soap 850 

To make Calicoes Wash well, 851 

Fire and Water-proof Cement, '•">! 

To Prevent Moths, 351 

The Bed Ant, 851 

Utility of Nettles 

Oseful Knife-hoard, 

To Preserve Flowers in Water 352 

keep a Stove Bright, 

Whiten the Hands 852 

Remove Marks from a Table,. . 858 

Clean Brass Ornaments, 

Mend Crockerv, 858 

Petrify Wood, 858 

Stop a Leak, 85 1 

354 

• heap Lemon Flavor, 854 

To clean Kid Gloves, 354 

Wash Woolens, 354 

A Varnish for Glass 

To Give Luster to Silver 855 

leather Ohder-waistcoata, . 

German silver 855 

Windsor Soap, 355 



PAOB 

To Bleach Linen 356 

To Restore Linen that has been 

Stained 356 

To take Stains from Mahogany 356 

Restore colors taken out by Acids 357 

Make Whitewash '. 357 

Out-houses and Cellars 357 

Ourling Fluid f >r the Hair, 

To Drive away Bedbugs 

1 destroy Flie 

Drive away Fleas, 353 

Polish Furniture 

Render Boots and Shoes Water- 
proof, 853 

Kill Weeds in Gravel. <fcc, 359 

Temper Earthen-ware, 

Clean Paint 359 

Remove. Lime Spots 359 

Take out Fruit Spots, 860 

Clean Black Silks 360 

Take Mildew out of Linen 860 

Clean Silks 360 

Remove Stains from Silk, 3>U 

Raise the Pile of Velvet 861 

Remove Grease from Cloth, 861 

Stain Harp Strings 361 

Polish Varnished Furniture, ... 

Japanese Cement, 

To Pender Cloth Rain-proof, 362 

Perfumed Ba^s 862 

To Make Tough Beef Tender 

Escape from a House on Fire.. 

Extinguish a Fire 363 

Purify Water for Drinking 

Purify Muddy Water " 864 

Clean Looking- 864 

Preserve Gilding 

i '■ an Lamps 

Directions for Carpets, Bff5 

To keep Silk 

Sweep Carpets 366 

Cheap Carpeting 307 

To Fasten the Handles of Knives 

and Forks ■■'•■:: 

Night Chairs, 867 

Tea, 

Swallow's Nest,.- . I 

Borax Washing, Recipe, 

Washing made Easy 868 

To clean Harness 869 

Protect Children from Burning 

Exercise after Meals, 870 

To keep Hops 370 

Volatile Soap for Removing Grease, 

Ac, B70 

To make wholesome Table Beer... B70 

Prevent Beer growing Flat, HTl 

Clean Bed Ticks. 871 

Prevent Lamps Smoking, 871 

Cure Pork 871 

Cure Qams— Virginia, 871 

Beef, 

Smoke Hams, 

p Hams 878 

Remove Flies, 373 



GENERAL INDEX. 



435 



PAGE. 
RULES FOR COLORING. 

General Directions, 374 

Sky Blue, 874 

Lilac, 874 

Black, 374 

Lemon 375 

Koyal Purple, 375 

Slate 875 

Scarlet, 375 



PAGE. 

A Bright Madder, 876 

Green, 376 

Straw Color, and Yellow, 376 

Nankin Color, „ 377 

Rose Color, 377 

To Dye Straw Bonnets Black, 377 

Dye White Gloves Purple, 877 

Bleach Straw Hats, 378 



CHAPTER XXVII. 



THE ORCHARD, 

To Prune Trees 379 

Prevent Gummin* in Fruit 

Trees 879 

Destroy Insects 8S0 

Renovate old Apple Trees, 3S0 

Preserve Roots, 380 

Cultivate Rhubarb, 881 

Hive Bees 3S1 

Make Hens Lay Perpetually,.. . 3S2 

For Fattening Hens, 3S2 

To Destroy the Bee Miller, 382 

Preserve Bees from "Worms. &c, 382 

"Wash for Fruit Trees ' 3S2 

To Destroy Caterpillars, 383 



GARDEN, ETC. 

To Preserve Flower Seeds, 383 

Keep Grapes, 388 

Preserve Peaches, 384 

Keep Cranberries, 384 

Preserve Carrots, Parsnips, &c, 384 

Preserve Seeds, 335 

Destroy Moss on Trees, 385 

Drive Bugs from Vines, 3S5 

Keep Rose Bags from Grape 

Vines, 385 

Increase the quantity of Cream, 3S5 

Mildew on Gooseberries, 386 

To Keep Apples Fresh a Year, .... 386 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 



Cautions in Visiting Sick-rooms, . . . 387 
For Children Troubled with Worms 337 

Fits caused by Worms, 387 

Foul Teeth 387 

To Clean Teeth, 3S3 

Make the Teeth White, 3S8 

Ward's Paste for the Piles, 3S8 

Cataplasm to Hasten Suppuration, . 339 

To Prevent Colds in Children,. . . 389 

A Simple Cure for the Croup, 389 

Sore Throat, 390 

Cough Syrups, 390 

For "a Cousjh, 390 

Children's Coughs, 391 

To Prevent Contagion, 391 

Volatile Liniment, 391 

To Cure a Wen, 391 

Treatment of Measles, 392 

To Prevent the Hair from Falling 

out 392 

Starch Injection, ... 392 

White Bean Poultice 392 

A Simple Cure for Dysentery 392 

For Summer Complaints, 393 

To Cure a Felon, 393 

Cure for Headaches, 393 

Colds 393 

Colds in the Head, 394 

Sape Tea, "04 

Nose Bleedinsr, 394 



To kill Insects in the Ear, 894 

For having Swallowed a Wasp, .... 395 

Corns, 395 

To Prevent the Lock-jaw, 395 

Arnica for Bruises, &c., 895 

For a Sprain, 895 

Preservation of the Teeth, 396 

To Remove Scurvv from the Teeth, 396 

The Teething of Children, 396 

Cure for Cancer, 397 

Poison of Rattlesnakes, 397 

Tincture for Diseased Gums, 397 

Mad Doijs— A Preventive 397 

To Prevent Wounds Mortifying, .. . 393 

Cure Poison on the Hands, 898 

Shortness of Breath, 393 

Relief for Asthma 393 

Gargle for Sore Throat,, , 398 

Balsam of Honey, 399 

Simple Mixture for Bowel Com- 
plaints, 399 

For a Burn, 399 

Salve for Bruises, 399 

Opodeldoc, 400 

Cure for the Piles 400 

For Small Cuts and Wounds. 400 

Advantages of Bathing, 400 

Dyspeptic Lye, 401 

Sir A. Cooper's Chilblain Liniment, 401 
Scald Head in Infants, 401 



436 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAGB. 

Colombo Root and Ginger, 401 

A Simple Medicine for IK-spepsia,. 402 
For the Quinsy, 402 

Whooping Cough, 402 

Another 403 

I Plaster for a Cough, 403 

Godfrey's Cordial, 4 3 

Precautions against Consumption,. 403 
Itemed; for having drank too much 

Cold Water 403 

For Ajrue and Fever, 404 

the Diarrhea 4i>4 

Horseradish for Hoarseness, 404 

For Indigestion, 404 

Bronchitis 405 

Turnip Syrup for a Cold 406 

Foreign Bodies in the Throat, 405 

Tincture of Rhubarb, 406 

of Ginger, 406 

Fumigating Powder, 406 

Itch 406 

Rheumatism 406 

The Shower-bath, 407 

Dr. Boerhaave's Rules, 407 

POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. 

Acids 407 

Alcohol, 408 

Alkalies ... 408 

Ammonia, 408 

A rsenic, 408 

Belladonna, or Night Henbane, 40S 

Charcoal, 408 

Corrosive Sublimate, 408 

Creosote, 408 

Lead 4 9 

Mushrooms, 409 

Nitrate of Silver (Lunar Caustic), . . 409 

Nitrate of Potash, or Saltpetre, 409 

Opium, or Laudanum, 4n9 

Oxalic Acid 409 

Prussic Acid 4<i9 

Snake Bites. &c, 410 

Stings from Bees, . 410 

Tartar Kinetic 410 

Tobacco, Hemlock, Nightshade, 
Spurred Rye,&c., 410 

White Vitriol • 410 

Medicinal Preparations and 
Hbbbs, which every Family 
ought to keep on hand, 411 



PAGE. 
QUALITIES OF FOOD. 

Beef, 412 

Veal 412 

Mutton, 412 

Lamb 412 

House Lamb, 412 

Pork, 413 

Smoked Hams, 413 

Bacon 413 

Boat's Flesh, 413 

Venison 413 

The Blood of Animals, 413 

Milk 418 

(ream, 414 

Butter, 414 

Cheese, 414 

Fowls, 415 

Turkeys, 415 

Wild Fowls, 415 

Eggs, 415 

Fish, 416 

Oysters and Cockles, 416 

Muscles and Periwinkles, 416 

Bread, 416 

Pastry 417 

Cats, Barley, and Rice 417 

Potatoes ' 417 

Green Peas and Beans, 417 

Salads 413 

Spinach, 413 

Asparagus, 418 

Artichokes, 413 

Cabbages 413 

Turnips, 4 ! 8 

Carrots 418 

Pal-snips, 41 S 

Parsley, 419 

Celery, 419 

Onions, Garlic, and Shalots 419 

Radishes, 419 

Apples, 419 

Pears 419 

Cherries 4!9 

Plums 411 

Peaches, 419 

Apricots 4J> 

Gooseberries and Currants 420 

Strawberries, 420 

Cucumbers, ISO 

Tea 420 

Coffee, Chocolate, 4J1 



THE WIFE SLAYER AND HIS VICTIMS! 



HENRY fill. AID HIS SIX WIVES. 

A New and Interesting Work by H. W. Herbert. 



COMPRISING BIOGRAPHIES OF 



Henry the Eighth of England, 



Anne of Cleves, 

Married, 1540; Repudiated, 1540. 

Katherine Howard, 

Married, 1540; Beheaded, 1541. ' 

Katherine Parr, 

Married, 1543; Died, 1548. 



Katherine of Arragon, 

Married 1509 ; Repudiated, 1533. 

Anne Boleyn, 

Married, 1533; Beheaded, 1536. 

Jane Seymour, 

Married, 1536 ; Died, 1537. 

Portraits of Henry Vm. and each of his Wives, 441 pp, 12mo., Price $1 25. 

♦ 

NOTICES OF THE PRESS. 

This a lively and highly entertaining historical narrative of the reign of one of the 
most marked "fall the British sovereigns. — Detroit Inquirer. 

Grand, gloomy, tender, picturesque, exciting, sad. and true to fact, as well as true to 
human nature. — Sunday Courier. 

The life and times of Henry VIII. are subjects of more interest and importance, not 
only to the people of Ensland. but to all men everywhere, than perhaps any other por- 
tion of British history. — People's Organ. 

A happy medium betwixt the stately dignity of history, and the extravagance of ro- 
mance. Strict historic truth is gilded with the graces of fancy — Detroit Free Press. 

Mr. Herbert is a novelist of the historic school. He lias here a subject better than fic- 
tion; for no romancer ever conceived sue!) a character and destiny as tiiat of the young 
and chivalrous Prince of England, turned CaHph. and accomplishing a religious revolu- 
tion, and raising himself to the supreme ecclesiastical authority, in the midst of a life of 
cruelty, lust, and rapine, that ha^ no parallel in eiviiiz-d history — Albany Atlas. 

Mr. Herbert has scarcely a superior as a historian. He is thorough and searching, dis- 
playing, at -every point, a deep study of his subject, and a strict regard For truih and 
justice: while his style is such as to render his histories attractive to (he popular class 
of readers. We believe that one of the best eit'ts a historian can possess, is to be able to 
interest the popular mind, without descending from the true standard of literary excel- 
lence. In this respect Mr. Herbert is remarkably fortunate. — OhrvsHati freeman. 

This is really one of the most valuable works which has heen issued from the pres< for 
a twelvemonth. It is written in a good-natured, fiction-like style, and yet all the histor- 
ical facts are carefully preserved. — Boston Dispatch. 

This work is produced in superior style: the engravings of Henry and his Six Wives 
are in the best style of art. The highest praise that we can otter to the author of this 
work, is to say that Mr. Herbert lias excelled himself; the style and manner should se- 
cure it great popularity, and it is evident that the author has spared no pains in his re* 
searches, to make the work a truthful and reliable one. We cordially recommend its pe- 
rusal to the reading public — Saturday Evening Mail. 

Scott has thrown around few of his female characters so much charm as Herbert in- 
vests the "Six Wives" of the "most uxorious of husbands" — N~. Y Daily News. 

This is no fiction. It is simply history of a peculiar and interesting period, compiled 
from the best authorities; and to all students of English history, and especially to all 
lovers of history who have not the leisure nor the opportunity to do more than read one 
oi more histories, the present volume will be of peculiar interest. — Sunday Dispatch. 

MILLER, ORTOfl & MULLIGAN, Publishers, 
25 Park Row, New York, and 107 Genesee-st., Auburn. 



floks for ftong Rabies* 

»♦• 

I. WOMAN'S MISSION. 

Gift Book for Young Ladies. 

Or Woman's Mission; being Familiar Letters to a Young Lady on 
her Amusements, Employments, Studies, Acquaintances, male and 
female, Friendships, <fcc* by Dr. Wm. A. Alcott, frontispiece on 
steel, Muslin, 307 pp., 12mo., 75 cents. 

CONTENTS LEADING HEADS. 

General Views ami Remarks; Spirit of Woman's Mission; Duties to Herself: Amuse- 
ments: Employments; Studios, Books, Ac. ; Moral Character; Associates in the Fam- 
ily: Associates beyond the Family; Mere Acquaintance ; Correspondents; Doing Good 
with the Pen; Particular Friendships; Society of the otheT Sex; Friendship with the 
other Sex; Qualifications for Friendship; Physical Qualifications; Seven 1' 
Disappointments; DoingGood; Pulling out of the Fire ; Associated Effort: < inrcb and 
Sabbath School; Truth, Justice, and Mercy ; Labors n ! ick; Sell-denial; Self- 

sacrifice. 

II. HEALTH, BEAUTY, ArlD HAPPINESS. 

Young Woman's Book of Health. 

By Dr. Wm. A. Alcott, 312 pp., 12m©., Muslin, 75 cents. 

The Young Woman's Book of Health, from the pen of Dr. Wm. A. Alcott. conveys, 
in simple and untechnical language, an amount of medical information which cannot 
but be of eminent service to those to whom it is addressed. The main object of the 
volume is to st;ite the means of preserving one's health, rather than the way to hunt 
up one's health when lost Doctor Alcott's reputation ia well known in this country, 
and we feel satisfied that not only young females, but women of all ages, will find this — 
his last book — eminently instructive and BUggostive. — Western Christian A>lv-. 

III. WHAT WOMAN MAY AND SHOULD BE. 

Young Lady's Book. 

Or, Principles of Female Education, by Rev. Wm. Hosmer, frontis- 
piece on steel, 301 pp. 12mo., Muslin, 75 cents. 

CONTENTS. 

Chapter I — Woman as a Human Beinc:; Chapter II — Woman as a 
Social Being; Chapter III — Moral Education; Chapter IV — Intel- 
lectual Education; Chapter V — Physical Education; Chapter VI — 
Domesti . Education ; Chapter VII — Civil Education ; Chapter VIII — 
Ornamental Education. 

The foregoing works are eminently popular. They should occupy a place in the cabi- 
net of every young lady in the land, as their counsel's will always he found reliable, and 
their instructions possess a charm which renders them not only useful, but very agreea- 
ble and entertaining companions. 

MILLER, 0RT0X & MULLIGAN, Publishers, 
25 Park Row, Nxw Yoaa, and 107 Genesee-st., Aubuxx. 




etical WSLiixhs. 



Shakspeare's Complete Works. 

With Memoir, Steel Portrait, and 36 Illustrations, 992 pp. 8vo., Mus- 
lin, $3 00 ; Embossed Morocco or Sheep, Marble Edge, $3 50. 

The Same, Fine Edition, Royal Octavo, 

With Memoir, Steel Portrait, and 40 full page Illustrations, Muslin, 
Gilt,$4 00 ; Embossed Morocco, Marble Edge, $4 50 ; Muslin, Full 
Gilt Edges and Sides : $6 00 ; Morocco do. $7 00. 

Tupper's Poetical Works. 

Including "Ballads for the Times," " Geraldine," "Hactenus," "A 
Thousand Lines," and other poems, Author's Revised American Edi- 
tion, Steel Portrait, 430 pp. 12nio., Muslin, $1 25: Full Gilt Edges 
and Sides, $2 25. 

Proverbial Philosophy. 

With an Essay on the Philosophy of Proverbs, and Additional 
Notes, by Martin Farquhar Tupper, Steel Portrait, 312 pp. 12mo., 
Muslin, $1 00; Full Gilt Edges and Sides, $2 00. 

Tapper's Complete Poetical Works. 

Including the above two volumes and other Poems, with Steel Por- 
trait, small 8vo., Muslin, Gilt, $2 00; Full Gilt Edges and Sides, $3 00. 

Gems from Tnpper. 

305 pp. 24mo., Muslin, 40 cents ; Full Gilt Sides and Edges, 60 cents. 

Poems of John diiincy Adams. 

On Religion and Society, with Notices of his Life and Character, 
116 pp. 12mo., Muslin, 50 cents; Gilt Edges and Sides, 15 cents. 

MILLER, ORTOH" & MULLIGAN, Publishers, 
25 Park Row, New York, and 107 Genesee St., Auburn. 



MAGMFICEST WORK OF HISTORY, 

A IVhoU Library in Unelf! 



Coat Si 1,000- 1207 Pages-70 Maps- 700 En^ravin^s. 



HISTORY OF ALL NATIONS, 

FROM THE EARLIEST PERIOD TO TUE PRESENT TIME \ 
OR, 



PHOraEMa. STOWf 



tS WHICH TUB 

HISTORY OF EVERY NATION, ANCIENT AND MODERN, 

IS SEPARATELY GIVEN. 

BY S. G. GOODRICH, 

Consul to Paris, and Author of several Works of History, Parl-ey's Tales, eta. 

It contains 1207 pages, royal octavo, and is illustrated by 70 Maps and 700 Engravings: 
bound in imitation Turkey morocco. 

Invariable retail price, $6,00 in one volume; $7.00 in two volume* 

The same, full gilt edge and sides, $S,00 in one volume; $10,00 in two vol* 



*** It is believed that the abovo work, by Mr. Goodrich, will be very acceptable 
to the American public It is the result of years of toil and labor, assisted in his re- 
searches by several scholars of kuown ability, and has been gotten up at a great ex- 
pc nse by the proprietors. No pains have been spared in the execution of tlie Illustra- 
tions and Maps, which are entirely new. and prepared by the distinguished author 
express!)/ for the work. Indeed, all the other historical writings of Mr. Goodrich 
Bink into Insignificance, when compared with this, the result of his riper and inaturer 
years. It is admitted that One Hundred Dollars could not purchase the same mat- 
ter in any other shape: and the publishers confidently expect that, in consideration 
of the great literary value of the work, the large sum expended in preparing it for the 
pre'j?, and the exceedingly moderate price at which it is offered, that it will bd favor 
ably received by every lover of good books. 

Published by Miller, Obtob it Mulligan, 

No. 25 Park Row, New York, and 107 Genesee-st., Auburn 






% 



r * 



1965 












' 






■ 






I 



^ ^ 
























• 









.* *? % V 







I \ 












V" 






- 



-*:, «>" .- 



V I 6 



^ 






V 



J *, > 



°o 



^ ^ 



"oo^ 



\° °- 






v* rO 






^ 



* -n* 



-^ 



\» ^^> 













\CY^ «* 









, ^> 



"V^ V 












r 



w* 




* 

^ 



-V 






aV ^ 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



y 



- *, 



I . w 



^^ 



r , 



^ 



r 



y 



<'> 



Vt 



} 



t 



\ 

i 



J 



\ 



I- 



). 



[ 



PRACTICAL 



AMERICAN COOKERY 



▲VD 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



OOKFILED BY 

ELIZABETH M. HALL. 



ZLLUSTRATBD. 



NEW YORK: 

C. M. SAXTON, BARKER & CO 

SAK FRANCISCO: H. H. BANCROFT A CO. 

1860. 



I 






"f 



Entered aooonUng to Aet of Congrvea, In tb« year one thoonuid tigttt bundled 

and flfty-flve, 

BT MILLER, ORTON 4 MULLIOAM, 
In the Clerk's Oflloo of the District Court of the Northern District of New York. 



CONTENTS. 



-»♦*- 



[A complete (^eoenl Index to the Bedpei embrMed In eeeh of the followlBg 
Cbepten, will be found «tthe end of this Yolame.] 



»»• 



COOKERT. 



Ihtboductiom, 
I. On Cartiko, 
IT. 800P8, 

III. Becp, 

IV. VI^A^ 

V. MUTfON, 

YI. Lamb, 
VII. Powc, . 
VI IL Poultry, 
IX. Game, Ac., 

X. Salt ar d Fresh Water Fn^ 
XL Sauces, 

XII. VfiORTABLBS, SaLADS, dcC, 

XIII. PoTTKP Meats, 

XIV. Pi Eft, Puddings, Tarts, Tartlets, Puffs, Aa, 
XV. Pancakes, Fritters, Muffins and Waffles, 

XV'I. Eggs and Omelets, 
XVII. Butter, Cheese, Ac, . 
XVIII. Custards, Creams, Ices, Jellies, Marmalades, 
XIX. Confection BRT, Preserved Fruits, Ac, 
XX. Pickles, ..... 
XXL Caku, Buns, Buouitb, B&kad, Ac, 



Ac 



PAGE. 
6 

11 

82 

47 

62 

69 

76 

79 

88 

97 

108 

121 

ISO 

144 

149 

190 

196 

200 

208 

281 

261 

260 



i 



IV CONTENTS. 



XXII. CoFFBE, Tjea, Gho(x>latb» Cooo^ . • . 808 

XXIII. Home Made W INKS, .... 809 

XXIV. Liquors, Beverages, Ac, . . • • 818 
XXV. Pesparations for the Sick, . . . 826 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

XXVI. MiscKLLANEOUB Recipes, .... 880 

XXVII. The Orchard, Garden, Ac, . . . 879 

XXVIII. Medicinal Recipes, Ac, .... 887 

The Cook's Table of Weights and Measures, . 829 

Medicinal Preparations AND Herbs, . 411 

Qualities of Animal and Veoetablk Fooiv 412 

General IsDBZ, . . 428 



INTRODUCTION. 



The present collection of Recipes has been se- 
lected and arranged with mnch care and a well-di- 
rected attention : they are the results of experience, 
and will be found, on inspection, to contain nearly, if 
not all, that can be esteemed essential for the pro- 
duction alike of a simply or a most elaborately fur- 
nished table. 

The necessity as well as the propriety of well reg- 
ulated domestic arrangements, in the household of all 
classes and conditions, cannot be questioned ; every 
income has its limit, and the mistress of the house 
should see that her domestic expenses do not exceed 
that of her husband. 

The young housekeeper should be acquainted with 
the extent of her husband's resources, and resolve 
with firmness to regulate her household with such 
prudence and economy as not to exceed them. 

However unromantic it may be, it is a certain fact, 
that the happiness of life is not a little dependent 
upon the stomach; sotheprofessors of medicine teach 
us. As all our ailments, save fractured limbs and 
wounds from instruments, proceed from a disordered 
stomacli, so very much of our domestic comfort pro- 
ceeds from the arrangement and regularity of the 
daily meal. This is a point strongly to be considered. 



VI nnnoDucTiov. 

The appetite is dependent upon the health, the health 
npon the proper and regular supply of food, which 
should be as much varied as possible. Xothing so 
soon palls the appetite as sameness of diet, nor so im- 
mediately injures the health ; for, by being palled, 
the appetite declines and the body suffers. Without 
health, there is little comfort; without comfort, no 
real happiness. Thus, eating and drinking, under a 
proper control, should be our first consideration ; and, 
being one of the essentials requisite for health and 
happiness, so it becomes the young housekeeper to 
look to the appointments of her kitchen. 

A kitchen should always be well furnished ; there 
is no necessity that it should be profusely so ; but 
there should be asuflSciency of everything which can 
aid in producing the dishes preparing, with the suc- 
cess which is so essential to the gratification of the 
palate. 

Cleanliness is a most essential qualification in the 
art of cooking, not only with regard to the person, 
but the utensils, and should be maintained in the 
kitchen at any personal sacrifice. 

In consulting this work, the cook will gain much 
advantage by a careful examination of the introduc- 
ductory remarks to each chapter, as many useful 
hints are there given relative to the department of 
cookery under consideration. 

In selecting and arranging the various miscellane- 
ous recipes under the head of Domestic Economy^ a 
constant regard has been had to the real wants of 
the family. It comprises valuable recipes for the 
houMhold. 



IHTRODUCTIOir. VU 

IMPORTANT HINTS TO COOKS. 

Keep your meat in a dry, cool place, yonr fish on 
ice, and yonr vegetables on a stone floor free from air. 

Out yonr soap when it comes in, and let it dry 
slowly. 

Keep yonr sweet herbs in paper bags, each bag 
containing only one description of herb. They should 
be dried in the wind, and not in the sun ; and when 
ordered in a recipe should be cautiously used, as a 
preponderance in any seasoning spoils it. 

When oranges or lemons are used fur juice, chop 
down the peel, put them in small pots, and tie them 
down for use. 

Apples should be kept on dry straw, in a dry place ; 
and pears hung up by the stalk. 

Batteb, for fish, meat, fritters, &c. — Prepare it 
with fine flour, salt, milk, and eggs, beaten up. Fry 
in hog's lard or sweet butter. 

Gabbois, if young, need only be wiped when boiled 
— if old, they must be scraped before boiling. Slice 
them into a dish, and pour over them melted butter. 

Cahliflowees. — Cut off the stalks, but leave a lit- 
tle of the green on ; boil in spring water with a little 
salt in it : they must not boil too fast. 

Celeby. — Very little is suflScient for soups, as the 
flavor is very predominating. It should be thorough- 
ly washed and curled when sent to table. 

Game may often be made fit for eating when it 
seems spoiled, by cleaning and washing it with vine- 
gar and water. Birds that are not likely to keep, 
should be drawn, cropped, and picked, then wash in 
two or three watersy and rub them with salt ; have 



Vlll INTRODUCTION. 

in readiness a large saucepan of boiling water, and 
plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up 
and down by the legs, so that the water may pass 

through them. Let them stay for five or six minutes, 
then hang them up in a cold place ; when they are 
completely drained, salt and pepper well the insides, 
and thoroughly wash them before roasting. 

Gbaviks, — ^The skirts of beef and the kidney will 
make quite as good gravy as any other meat, if pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

Lard should be carefully melted in a jar, put in a 
kettle of water and boiled, and run into bladders that 
have been strictly cleaned ; the bladders should not 
be too large, as the lard will become rank if the air 
gets to it. 

Saoo should soak for an hour, previous to using, to 
take off the earthy taste. 

Copper vessels, when the tinning is worn off, must 
never be used, or the poisoning of those who partake 
of whatever may have been cooked in them, is inev- 
itable. They should be sent to be re-tinned as soon 
as they require it. 

A WORD FOR THE DINNER TABLK 

As host, — ^The company seated, and a blessing in 
voked ; dispatch soup to each, without inquiring 
whether you shall help them or not. Help the per- 
son nearest you on the right first ; then on your left, 
and 80 on. Serve fish in the same way. Never offer 
fish or soup a second time. . 

The principal dish of meat you will carve yourself. 



IHTRODUCnOir. iz 

Sapplj the plates, and hand them to the servants, 
who will offer them to snch of the company as are un- 
provided. In helping, supply each plate j^ith a por* 
tion of the choice parts, as the kidney in a quarter of 
lamb, or sweet-bread in veal. In poultry, or other 
meats, some parts of which are preferred to others, 
according to the taste of individuals, before helping, 
ask each one if he has any preference. If the re- 
ply is in the negative, do not repeat the question, nor 
insist that he must have a preference. Have the 
servant offer gravy to each guest, or you may your- 
self ask each if he will take gravy, and help to it with 
the meat. 

See that your guests are helped to, or have an op- 
portunity of declining, each of the principal dishes. 
After a particular dish has once been declined by any 
one, do not urge him to partake. Yegetables the 
servant should help to ; but it will depend on your 
attention and care to see that each guest is properly 
supplied. Especially see that the servant is attentive 
and prompt in supplying bread, water, salt, and the 
et ceteras of the table to each guest. 

As Guest — Being seated, when soup is offered, 
take it. It is better to do this, even if you do not 
really wish any ; but fish you may decline. Do not 
ask for either a second time. 

If asked whether you have a preference for any 
dish, or any particular part of a dish, answer promptly, 
definitely, and distinctly. 

If a gentleman, you will be expected to carve and 
help to game or any side dish which may be nearest 

A* 



IKTKODUCTKnr. 



jj^ ; unless where the dishes are removed to be 
C8**^/ed by a servant at a side table. 

Yoor cjj^tj to jour entertainer requires that you 
should be as agreeable as possible, taking no notice 
of any unfortunate mistake or accident, engaging in 
conversation with your next or opposite neighbor, 
and fueling and acting at your ease. 

Tt^ Servant should serve everything at the left 
hand ->f the guest. 



ON OARVINO. 

Carvino presents no difficulties; it requires simply knowl' 
edge. All displays of exertion or violence are in very bad 
taste. A good knife of raoderat« size, sufBcient lengtli of han- 
dle, and very sharp, is requisite ; for s lady it should be light, 
and smaller than that used by gentlemen. Fowls are very 
easily carved, and in loina, breasts, fore-quarters, &c., the 
butcher should havestrict injunctions to separate the joints well. 

The dish upon which tbe article to be carved is placed should 
be conveniently Dear to the carver, so that he baa fiill conlrnl 
over it. 



13 tRAOTKJ*!. COOKIET. 

In serviog fish, some nicety and care must be exercised ; 
here lightness of hand and dexterity of management is necessary, 
and can only be acquired by practice. The flakes which in 
audi fish as Balmon and cod are large, should not be,bn>ken in 
Berring, for the beauty of the fish ia then destroyed, and the 
appetite for it injured. In addition to the Bkill in the use of 
the knife, there is also required another description of knowl- 
edge, and that is an acquaintance with the best parts of the 
joints, fowl or fish, being carved, Tlius, in a haunch of veni- 
son, the Jat, which is a fevoriie, must be served with each slice ; 
in the shoulder of mutton there are some delicate cuts in the 
under part. The breast and wings are the best parts of a 
fowl ; the trail of a woodcock on a toast is the dioicesl part of 
the bird. In fish, a part of the roe should accompany the piece 
of fiahserveo. 

Ab AircH-BONB or 
B&ur. This is a simple 
joint to carve, but the 
slices from it roust be 
cut quite even, and of a 
Very modemtB thick- 
ness. When the joint 
is boiled, before cutting 
AiMk-BiM. to serve, remove a slice 

from the whole of the upper part, of sufficient thickness, say a 
quarter of an inch, in order to arrive at the juicy part of the meat 
at once. Carve from a to b ; let the slices be moderately thin — 
not too thin ; help (at with the lean in one piece, and give a 
little additional fat, which you will find below c ; the solid fat 
is at A, and must be cut in slices horizontally. The round of 
beef is carved in the some manner. 

Ribs of Bbep. There are two modes of carving this joint; 
the first, which is now becoming common, and is easy to an 
amateur carrer, is to cut across the bone commencing in the 



OR OABVDIO. 18 

center, and serring &t from j^ as ibarked in the engraving of 
tlie sirloin, or it should be carved in slices from a to b. Oc 
casionally tbe bonea are removed, and the meat formed into & 
fillet ; it should then be carved as a round of beef. 

Tai Sirloin or 
Bur. . The under 
part should be first 
served, and carved 
as indicated in the 



ing tbe upper part 

BbMa (f BmC tjjg same diredions 

abould be followed as for the rib^ carving eitlier side, frum a 

tOB. 

FiLLiT or Veal. Cut 

a slice off the whole of the 

upper part in the some 

way as from a round of 

beef; thb being, if well 

roasted, of a nice bmwn, 

should be helped in small 

'™***^"'' pieces with the blicea you 

cut for each person. The stuffing is skewered in the flap, and 

where the hone cornea out there is some placed ; help this with 

tbe meat with a pieoe of the &t. 

N«CK or Vkal. 
Were you to at- 
tempt to carve eneh 
t chop, and jwrve it, 

you would not on 
)y place a gigantic 
'•* ■'▼"I- piece upon theplate 

<^ the peraon you intended to help, but you would waste much 



14 > PKAOTICAL OOOKKar. 

time ; and ebould die vertebne not have been jointed by the 
butcher, you would find yourself in the posutioD of the ungraceful 
carver, being compelled to exercise a degree of strength which 
should never be suffered to appear ; very posdbly, too, assisting 
gravy in a manner not contemplated by the person unfortunate 
enough to jec^ve it. Cut diagonally from b to a, and help in 
slices of moderate thickness ; you can cut from c to d in or- 
der to separate the smaU bones ; divide and serve them, havuig 
first inquired if they are desired. . 

Thk Brbabt 
or Vbal. Sepa- 
rate the ribs from 
the brisket, cut^ 
ting from B to A ; 
theeesmall bonea, 
which are much 
Brma<aY-L thc Sweetest and 

mostly cboaen, you will cut as at n n d, and serve ; the long ribs 
are divided as at □ o □, and having ascertaiDed the preference 
of the person, help socordingly ; at good tables the scrag is not 
served, but is found, when properly cooked, a very good stew. 
Loin of Vbal. This joint is sent to table served as a sir- 
loin of bee£ Having turned it over, cut out the kidney and 
the &t, return it to its proper position, and oarve it as in the 
neck of veal, from b to a ; help with it a slice of kidney and 
fitt The kidney is usually placed upon a dry toast when re- 
moved from the joinL 

S0OULDIR OF Vial is aatt to table with the under part 
placed uppermost Help it as a shoulder of muttcHi, banning 
ftt the knuckle end. 



OK cAxvnra. 16 

C^Lr'B Hbad. 
Tliere is much 
more meat to be 
obtaiDed from a 
cftirsheadh/carr- 
t ingitontfwayihAD 
another. Ciirre 

H^a(0>ir.H«d. from A to B, Cut 

(ing quite down to the bone. At the flesh; part of the neeU 
end you niU find the throat sweetbread, which you can help a 
slice of with the other ptut ; you will remoTe the eye with the 
point of the knife and divide it in balf^ belpiug those to it who 
profess a preference for it; there are some tasty, gelatinous 
pieces around it which are palatable. Remove tbe jaw bone, 
and then you will meet with some fine flaTcved lean ; the palate, 
which is under the head, is by some thought a dainty, and 
should be profiered when carving. 

Leo of Muttoit, 
Hie under or thick- 
eat part of the leg 
should be placed up- 
pennost, and carved 
in slioes moderately 
thin from B to o. 
Many persons have a 
taste for die knudcle, 
and if preferred, it 
sbould be helped. When cold, the back of the leg should be 
placed uppermost, and thus carred ; if the cramp bone is re- 
quested, and some persona r^anl it as a dainty, hold the shank 
with your left band, and insert your knife at t>, passing itround 
to B, and yon Till remove it^ 



16 PBAOTtCAL OOOKBRT. 

A Shoitlder of Mut- 
TOH. It should be served 
and eaten very hot It is 
sent to table lying on the 
dish as shown in the an- 
nexed engraving. Com- 
meooe carving Irom a. to 
B, taking out moderately 
thin slices in the xhape of 

A Bbonlder of Unttoi. j wedge ; some nice pie- 

009 may then be helped from the blade bone, from o to a, cut- 
ting on both sides of the bone. Cut the fat from d, carving it in 
thin slicra. Some of the most delicate parts, however, lie on 
the under part of the shoulder ; take off thin pieces horizon- 
tally from B to o, and from a ; some tender slices are to be 
met with at D, but they must be out through as indicated. 

Ibe shoulder of mut- 
ton is essentially a joint 
of titbits, and, therefore, 
when carving it, the tastes 
of those at the table should 
be consulted. It is a very 
I insipid joint when cold, 
and should, therefore, be 
hashed if sent to table a 
ABbMUtoaTHattdB. gecond time. 

The Loih or Muttok, if small, should be carved in chops, 
beginning with the outer chop ; if iKge, carve slices the whole 
length. A neat way is, to run the knife along the chine bone 
and under the meat along the ribs, it may then be cut in slices, 
as shown In the engraving of tbesaddle of mutton belowj by 
this process &t and lean are served together ; your knife should 
be very sharp, and it should be done cleverly. 



OK OARVnO. 17 

Nioi or MuTTOit, iftbe scrag and diiaebone are remoYod, 
is carved in the direction of the bones. 

Th« Scrag or Mnrrojr should be separated from tlie ribs 
o[ tbe Declc, and when roasted, Qia bones helped with the meat 
Sadsli or 
Mutton. Tbe 
tail end is divi- 
ded in the en- 
graving, and the 
i(idnejB skew- 
ered under eeth 
diviuon ; this is 
a matter of taste, 
B>idi*oruBtiin. ,nd is not al- 

ways done. Carve from a to n in thin slices; help &t from o 
to D, You may help from the vertebrs on both udes of the 
loin, and then carve croas-wiae aa marked in the engraving, 
which gives you both fat and lean ; help a slice of kidney to 
those who desire it 
UxinioH OF Mdttok la otnred as hauuek o/vmiton, 

FORB QUAR- 

TRR or Lamb. 

Place your fork 

near the knuckle 

and cut from a 

to 0, to B, and 

ron4)nrt(rof Idub. on to d; pass 

joQT knife under, lifting with tbe fork at the same time. The 

juice of half a lemon which has been sprinkled with salt and 

pepper, is then squeezed under the shoulder, and a slice of fresh 

butter placed there, also; the parts are reunited until the but 

ter b melted, and the shoulder is then plac«d in a separate 

dish; separate the neck from the ribs, from b to d, and then 



18 PBXOnCAI, OOOXXBT. 

help to tlte breast a, or tlie Deck t, aooording to the palat« of 

jour guest 

Haunch or Veb- 
laoH. Have the 
dish placed before 
you so that the loin 
is nearest to you, 
and the knuckle 
fiutbest ; then cut 
irom A to B, suCRcieiitly near the knuckle to prevent the es- 
cape of any gravy ; Chen make your first cut from a to a, with 
a slanting cut, and let each succeeding slice be sloping, so that 
all the gravy may be retained in the hollow thus formed ; the 
fikt will be found at the left aide, and must be served with the 




>N, should be carved across the ribs, as ii 
r lengthwise, from one end of the neck b 



N.OK OF V.Hia 
the neck of veal, ( 
the other. 

Pore. The leg when sent to table should be placed with 
the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed ; if sufS. 
cieutly baked, this may be done with ease ; the meat should 
be served in thin slices, cut across the 1^ the crackling being 
served with it, or not, accordii^ to taste ; the loins are cut into 
the pieces as scored by the butoher. 



Hah. It is served 
is placed in the engra- 
ving, and should come 
fo table ornamented. 
Carve from a to b, cut- 
ting thin dices. 



OS CASTDTO. 19 

Baucd ToHom. GuT« mtoss tbe tongue in thin slioea. 

Roast Pia. The cook 
should aend a roast pig to 

! table as displayed here, 
garnished with head and 
ean ; carve the jobta in 
I directioo shown by the 
)bes in the diagram, then 
■"m* divide tberibs; servewith 

plenty of sauoe > should one of the jrants be too much, it may 
be separated: bread sauce and stuffing should accompany 
it An ear and the jaw are bvorite parts with many people. 
Rabbit. Cut 
slices from b to 
A of moderate 
thickuess. When 
, the rabbit is 
I young, you can, 
after removing 
«*>* the shoulders and 

legs^ cut across the bade, and divide it into several pieces ; this 
is not practicable with a iiill grown rabbit, unless it is boned. 
The shoulders and legs are easily removed by placing the 
knife between them, and turning them back, the joint will dis- 
close itself and can th^ be separated. Tlie head should not 
be removed until the last ; divide it fiiim the neck, remove 
the lower jaw, then cut through the divisinn which appears 
from the nose to the top of the skull and lay it open. The 
BtuHing should be given with whatever portion may ba 
helped. 

Roast Hark bcarved in the same manner. 



20 PBAOnOU. OOOEXBT. 

BoiLSD UABsrr. Ba- 
move the legs and 
shouldera; they very 
easily B^tarate. Di- 
vide the back into two 
ports by holding the 
BoiMBdiUi, fork firmly m the back, 

and passbg the knife underoeatb near the middle, and bending 
it back. The most tender port is on the loins ; the meat there 
is of a very delicate flavor; liver should be helped with it. 

Roast Chicksns and Tur- 
KKT'. These, especially the 
latter, require skillful carving, 
and both observation and 
practice are necessary i« per- 
form the operation satisfiicto- 
rily to yourself and others. Remove the wings, cutting from 
D to B, and separating the joints with the edge of your knife. 
Make a short cut in a downward direction at right angles with 
the drumsticks, then cut from a between the legs and side, 
toward the wings ; press back the legs with the blade of the 
knife, and the joint will disclose itself; if young it will part, 
but at besi, if judiciously managed, will require but a nick 
where the Joints unite. Divide the thighs from the drumsticks, 
and here an instrument termed a dUjoinUr, will be found ser- 
viceable. Then carve slices lengthwise, Irom each side of the 
breast. Next remove the merrythought and neck-bones by 
inserting the knife and piercing it under the bones, raising it, 
when they will readily separate &om the breast Divide the 
breast from the body by cutting backwards on each side 
through the small ribs down to the vent. Take off the side 
boues, turn the back uppermost, put your knife into about the 




center between the neck and rump, ruse the lower port finnly , 
yet gently, and it will easily separate. 

In separating the tbigh from the drum- 

stick, yoii must insert the knife exactly at the 

joint as we have indicated in the engraving; 

\ this, however, will be found to require practice, 

I for the joint must be accurately hit, or else 

' much difRculty will be experienced in getting 

the parts asunder. 



BoiLsn Fowls are carved in the same way as roast. 




fivUad Fowl (brMtt.) BolM Fowl (back.) 

BnoiLBn Chickbhb are carved by dmply dividing them into 
quartera; dividing them first lengthwise through the breas^ 

and then across between the wing and leg. 

GiUB. Follow with your 
knife the lines marked in the 
engraving, a to b, and cut slices, 
then remove the wing, and if 
the party l>e lai^ the legs must 
also be removed, and here the 
dit/oinUr will again prove ser- 
viceable. The stuffing will be 
obtained by making an insertion 
ato. 




22 



PRACTICAL OOOKBRT. 




Pheasant. Clear the leg by inserting 
the edge of the knife between it and the 
body ; then take off the wings, b to a, but 
do not remove much of the breast with 
them ; you are thus enabled to obtain 
some nice slices; the pheasant is then 
carved as a fowl. The breast is first in 
estimation, then the wings, and after these 
the merry-thought ; lovers of game pre- 
fer a 1^. 

APhaaBttt 

GniNXA Fowl are carved in the same mannei. 

Pabtridos. Separate the legs, and 
then divide the bird into three parts, leav- 
ing each leg and wing together. The 
breast is then divided from the back, and 
helped whole, the latter being assisted with 
any of the other parts. When the party 
consists entirely of gentlemen, the bird is 
divided into two by cutting right through 
Partridge. fix)m the vent to the neck. 

Quails, Rexd-Birds, and all small birds, are served whole. 

Grousb and Plover are carved as partridges. 

Snipe and Woodcock are divided into two parts ; the trail 
being served on a toast. 

Wild Duck and Widgeon. The breast of these fowls be- 
ing the best portion, is carved in slices, which, being removed, 
a glass of old port made hot is poured in; the half of a lemon 
seasoned with cayenne and salt, should then be squeezed in the 
slices, relaid in their places, and then served, the joints being 
removed the same as in other fowl. 




on OJUtTIBO. 




PioBOH. Like Tood- 
cock, these birds are cut in 
hftlf, through the breast and 
back, and helped. 





FisHabooldneTerbe carved with steel; helping requires mora 
care tlian knowledge ; the principal caution is to avoid breaking 
the flakes. In carving a piece 
of salmon,as here engraved, 
cot diin slioea, as from a to 
B, and help with it pieces 
of the belly, in the direc- 
tion marked fr«m n to o ; 
the beet flavored is the up- 
UddixiDtofSdmoiL per or thick part. The 

white 6sh and trout of our northern lakes are carved in the 
saiQe waj. Also sheephead, when large ; when small, tbey 
are cut right through. 



FBAOnOAL COOKKKT. 




Tdrbot. Cut Oat pieces 
aa marked in the engrv 
ving, without moving the 
bone; the fin, which is es- 
teemed a delicacy, ia al- 
ways served with it 



Titbot 
AJl flat fiah are carved in the same manner : flounders an 
cut either in halves, or, if very large, are divided into three, 
cutting right through. 

Cod's IIbad and Sbodlurb. Carry the knife from 
A to B, and then along the line, to a; help slices, ao- 
conipanied by some of 
the sound, which is to 
be found lining the back, 
and which you may ob- 
tun by pas^ng the knife 
under the back-bone at 
c ; serve also a piece of 
OotrtBmiL liver. Many choice 

parts lie in this didi, and by inquiry you will soon ascertain 
the parts preferred. He jaw-bone, from its gelatinous nature^ 
is considered by some a dainty, and the head generally, inclu- 
ding eyes and palate, is a fiivorite with many. 

Haddook. It is dressed whole, unless unusually large. 
When sent to table it b split its whole length, and served one- 
half the head to the tail of the other part ; it ia carved acroaa. 



Macexkel should always be sent to table head to tail. First 
cut off the head, then divide 
dte meat from the bone 
\>y cuttiog down the bade 
lengthwise; the upper part 
is the best All imall fish, 
such as herrings, perch, 
Mnelta, mullets, &a, aie 
served whole. 

AdWiarHHkm. 




A Bullock marked as cut in the joints hy the Butcher. 



A Sirluin. 
B Ramp. 
C AitchboDe. 
D Buttock. 
E Hoiue Buttock. 
P Vein J piece. 
6 Thick FUnk. 
U Thin Flank. 



The baron of beef is formed of the pieces marked 
on ix>th sidea. 



K Fore Sibi, aontainlng five rib*. 

L Middle Rib, coataining foar ribs. 

H Chuck Kib, contuDing three ribii 

M Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton pieoe. 

Bmket. 

P Clod. 

Q Keck, or Sticking piece. 

R Shin. 

S Cheek. 



26 



PRACTICAL COOKSRT. 



VEAL. 




The calf is divided into joints by the butcher, upon a system 
which unites the methods employed for cutting up both beef 
and mutton. 



A The Loin (best end.) 
B The Loin (chump end.) 
C The Fillet 
X> The Hind Knuckle. 
£ The Fore Knuckle. 



F Neck (best end.) 
G Neck (scrag.) 
H Blade Bone. 
I Breast (best end) 
K Breast (Brisket) 



PORK. 




The Pig is thus divided : 
A The Fore Loin. The Belly, or Spring. 

B The Hind Loin. D The Hand. 

£ The Leg. 

The spare rib is under the shoulder, whidi, when removed 
in a porker, leaves part of the neck without a skin upon it, 
forming the spare rib. The head is much liked b^ many, and 
appears at table dressed in various ways. 



ON OARVtHfi. 
MUTTON. 



Hie sheep is thus apportioned b; butcbere : 
A The Leg. E N«ek (*cr*g 

B Loin rt£« bert «nl) F ShODlder. 

C LoiD (chnmp cad) G Breut 

D Neck (beat eod.) 

VENISON. 



A HBHuQh. B Neok. C Sbonlder. D Breut. 
Buck and Doe Venison are cut up in similar fiishion. 



fS PRACnCAL COOKKBT. 

TO CHOOSE MEAIB. 

VsNisoN. The choice of yenison should be regulated hy 
the appearaooe of the fiit, which, when the venison is young, 
looks bright^ thick, dear, and dose. It first changes toward 
the haunches. To ascertain whether it is sweet, run a knife 
into that part ; if tainted, it will have a rank smell. 

BxxF. True, welled beef will exhibit an open grain of deep- 
coral-red, and the fat will appear of a healthy, oily smooth- 
ness, rather indining to white than ydlow. The suet firm and 
white. Yellow fat is a test of meat of an inferior quality. 
Heifer beef is but little inferior to ox beef; the lean is of a 
closer grain, the red paler, and the fat whiter. 

VxAL. When you observe the kidney well surrounded 
with fat, you may be sure the meat is of a good quality. The 
whitest is not the best veal. There is a vein in the shoulder 
very perceptible, and its color indicates the freshness of the 
meat ; if a bright red or blue, it is recently killed ; if any 
green or yellow spots are visible, it is stale. 

Mutton. The best is of a fine grain, a bright color, the &t 
firm and white. It is better for being full grown. 

Lamb should be eaten very fresh. In the fore quarter, the 
vein in the neck being any other color than blue, betrays it to 
be stale. In the hind quarter, tr^ tne kidney with your nose ; 
^e faintness of its smell will prove it to be stale. 

Pork. In young poric the lean when pinched will break ; 
the thickness and toughness of the rind shows it to be old. 
Ii\ f^h pork the flesh is firm, smooth, a clear color, and the 
fat set When stale, it looks dammy and flabby. Measly 
pork may be detected by the kernels in the fat ; it should not 
^ eaten. 

Bacon. Excellent young bacon may be thus known — the 
lean will be tender and of a bright color ; the fiait firm and 
white, yet bearing a pale rose tinge ; the rind thin, and the 



oir OARViNO. 29 

lean tender to the touch. Bustj bacon has yellow streaks 
in It 

Hams. The test of a sweet ham is to pass a sharp knife to 
the bone, and when drawn out, smell it ; if the knife is daubed 
greasy, and the scent disagreeable, it is bad. A good ham 
will present an agreeable smell when the knife is withdrawn. 

TO CHOOSE POULTRY AND GAME. 

TuRKST. The cock bird when young has a smooth, black 
leg with a short ^r. The eyes bright and fiill, and moist, 
supple feet when fresh ; the absence of these signs denotes age 
and stalenesa. 

Fowls like a turkey ; the young cock has a smooth leg 
and a short spur ; when fresh the Tent is dose and dark. 
Hens, when young, have smooth legs and combs ; when old 
these will be rough ; a good capon has a thick belly and large 
rump, a poll comb and a swelling breast 

Geesb. In young geese the feet and bills will be yellow 
and free from hair. When fresh the feet are pliable ; they 
are stiff when stale. 

Ducks may be selected by the same rules. 

Pigeons, whra fresh, have supple feet, and the vent will be 
firm ; if discolored and supple they are stale. 

Plovers, when &t, have hard vents ; but, like almost all 
other birds, may be chosen by the above rules. 

Hares and Babbits. When young and fresh, the clefl in 
the lip is narrow, the body stifl^ the ears tear easily, and the 
claws are smooth and sharp ; when old and s^e they will be 
the opposite of this. >^ 

Partridges. Yellow legs and a dark bill are signs by 
which a young bird may be known, and a rigid vent when 
fresh. When this part is green the bird is stale. 



80 ' PBACnCAL COOKSRT. 

Phkasants may be chosen as above; the young birds are 
known by the short or rounjd spur, which in the old is long and 
pointed. 

Moor Game. Grouse, Woodcocks, Snipes, Quaflis, dso, 
may be chosen by the rules above given. 

TO CHOOSE FISH. 

TuRBOT. When good are thick, and the belly is white with 
a &int yellow tinge. 

Salmon. The fish stif!| the scales very bright, the belly 
thick, the gills a brilliant color, and the flesh when cut a beau- 
tiful red, will prove it to be a fine, fresh fish. It cannot be too 
fresh. 

Cod. The best fish are thick at the neck, very red gills, firm, 
white flesh, bright, and blood-shot eyes, and small head. 

Hbrrinos. Very red gills, blood shot eyes, very bright 
scales, and the fish stifi^ shows them to be good and fresh. 

Floundbrs should be thick and firm, the eyes bright. 

Mackbrbl. Bright eyes, thick bodies, the prismatic colors 
very predominant on the belly, denote freshness and goodness. 

PiBB, Trout, Pbboh, Smblts, Gudgbons, ^ec., may be judged 
by the above rules. 

MuLLBT. The red are preferred to the gray, and the sea to 
the river. They are a delicious fish when properly cooked. 
* £bl8. They should be alive when purchased. 

SHELL FISH. 

LoBSTBRS. To be had in perfection should be boiled at 
home ; choose the heaviest When they are boiled, the tail, 
should have a good spring ; the cock lobster has a narrow tail 
in which the two uppermost fins are stiff and hard ; the hen 



OV OARTlVa. 31 

has a broad tail, and these fins are softer. The male has the 
best flavor ; the flesh is firmer, and the color when boiled is 
brighter than the hen. 

Crabs, like lobsters, should be selected bj weight ; when 
prime, the 1^-joints are Btiffand the scent pleasant 

Shrimps should be bright and the bodies firm and stiflf; 
when they are limp and soft thej are stale. 

Otstsbs. There' are many sorts of oysters ; when the oy» 
ter is alive the shell will close upon the knife. 

Fresh Fish, when boiled, should be placed in cold, and 
shell-fish in boiling water. 

Fish should be garnished with celery, parsley or hard boiled 
^gs cut in rings, and laid around the.dish, and seirved with no 
other vegetable but potatoes. 



CHAPTER 11. 
SOUPS. 

Thkrx 18 no dt^, perhap«s that comes to table which g^iTes 
such general satisfiiction as well prepared soup ; let the appe- 
tite be vigorous or refined, an excellent soup will always prove 
grateful to it ; and as this is beyond contradiction, it should be 
the province of the cook to be always in a position to produce 
it at a short notice. 

There should always be plenty of dried herbs in the store 
closet They may be very well kept, as indeed they are, usu- 
ally, in paper bags ; they should all be labeled. 

There should be a saucepan, or kettle of* iron well tinned, 
kept for soup only ; remember the lid should fit tightly, and 
the vessel be perfectly clean. 

The spices and other condiments used to give flavor to soups^ 
should be so nicely proportioned, that none predominate. 
Onions and garlic should be used sparingly. 

Skim the soup thoroughly when it first b^ins^to boil, or it 
can never afterward be rendered clear; throw in some salt, 
which will assist to bring the scum to the surface, and when it 
has all been taken ofi^ add the herbs and vegetables. 

Inferior pieces of meat, such as the neck or scrag, and knuckle 
bone, are used in Qiaking soup. Remains of cooked meats, 
may be thus used. When too fat, the grease must be skim- 
med off before adding the vegetables. 

Boil the soup gently, over a moderate fire, and wlien well 
skimmed, draw it to the side of the stove, and keep it simmer- 
ing till done. 



Boups. 38 

The greens and vegetables for soup must be carefully pre- 
pared, that is, picked clean and washed. Tliose mostlj used 
are carrots, onions, parsley, turnip, celery, tomatoes, ochraa, 
cabbage, cauliBower, green beans, peas, and potatoes. The 
proportion may be as follows : 

An onion, a large carrot, a bunch of parsley, and two tur- 
nips ; one head of celery, an onion, two small turnips, and five 
or six small potatoes ; or five or six tomatoes skinned and the 
seeds squeezed out, one onion, a bunch of parsley, and five or 
six potatoes cut sm^U ; or carrot, cabbage, turnip, tomatoes, 
and potatoes. With lamb, use green peas and new potatoes. 

Li the preparation of vegetables, carrots, turnips, onions and 
potatoes should be cut into thin slices, and may be quartered, 
if preferred ; cabbage- should be shaved thin, and celery should 
be cut in lengths of half an inch. Pearl bai*ley, rice flour, or 
rice may be used to thicken. 

Except for white soups, to which arrow-root is, we think, 
more i4>propriate, we prefer, to all other ingredients generally 
used for this purpose, the finest and freshest rice>flour, which 
afler being passed through a lawn-sieve, should be thoroughly 
blended with the salt, pounded spices, catsup, or wine, required 
to finish the flavoring of the soup. Suflicient liquid should be 
added to it very gradually to render it of the consistency of 
batter, and it should also be perfectly smooth ; to keep it so, 
it should be moistened sparingly at first, and beaten with the 
back of a spoon until every lump has disappeared. The soup 
should boil quickly when the thickening is stirred into it, and 
be simmered for ten minutes afterward. From an ounce and 
a half to two ounces of rfce-flour will thicken sufliciently a quart 
of soup. 

To brown soup, take two lumps of loaf-sugar in an iron 
spoon ; let it stand on the stove till it is quite black, and put 
it into soup. 

B» 3 




34 PRACTICAL coo: 

MEAT sou: 

WHITK 800 

Take a knuckle of veal, separated 
slice of ham as lean as possible, a 
and mace; stew twelve or fburteei 
rich as the ingredients can make it 
much richer, if added. This soup 
fore it is required. When remove 
sufficiently stewed, let it cool, and 
to it four ounces of pounded bl 
slowly, thicken it with a half a pir 
should boil slowly for half an hour, 



ORAVT sot 

Take a leg of beef, well wash ai 
and put it into a saucepan with a gs 
of sweet herbs, two large onions 
brown, taking great care they are 
mace, three cloves, twenty berries 
black pepper; stew till the soup i 
be ; then take out the meat ; when ^ 
heat the soup with vermicelli, and t 
celery boiled and cut to pieces, caj 
rot may be added with turnip, cut i 

with spinach, or the herbs without ti^e vermicelli, or vermicelli 
only ; add also a large spoonful of soy and one of mushroom 
ketchup ; a French roll should be made hot and put into the 
soup. 

BXEF ORAVT. 

Cut a piece of the cheek or neck into pieces, strew some 
flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the 
saucepan with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little 



80UP8. 85 

allspice, a little pepper, and some salt; ooyer it dose, and when it 
boils skim it ; then throw in a small crust of bread, or raspings, 
and stew it till the gravy is rich and good; strain it ijff, and pour 
It into a sauce boat. 

ORAYT CLKAB. 

Slice some beef thinly ; broil a part of it over a very dear, 
quick fire, just enough to give color to the gravy, but not to 
dress it ; put that with the raw into a tinned stewpan with a 
couple of onions, one or two doves, whole black pepper, ber- 
ries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover it with hot 
water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times, then 
cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. 

BSSF SOUP. 

Saw the shin bone of beef weighing four pounds into short 
pieces, to expose the marrow, which will give richness to the 
soDp. Then wash in cold water. Rub into the meat a table- 
spoon full each of salt and pepper, well mixed. It is then ready 
for the pot, in which put four quarts of water. Bring it to a 
boil over a moderate fire ; then remove whatever scum n)ay 
have risen, after which cover it close, and set it where it will 
boil very gently for two hours longer ; then skim it again, and 
add to it the vegetables, which should be properly prepared, 
viz : one large carrot, one large turnip, one onion, one bunch 
of parsley, six small potatoes, and a teacup full of pearl barley; 
cover it, and let it boil gently for one hour, at which time add 
another tablespoon full of salt, and a thickening made of a 
tablespoon full of wheat flour and a gill of water ; stir it in by 
the spoon full ; cover it for fifteen minutes, and it is done. 
The meat may be served with the -soup. Remove the bones, 
and lay it closely and neatly on a dish, and gai-nish with sprigs 
of parsley ; serve made mustard and catsup with it. It is veiy 
nice pressed and eaten with mustard and vinegar -or oattap. 



M PRACTICAL COOKBRT. 

8AGO 80UP. 

Take three pounds of lean beefj a slice of lean ham, and laj 
them in a stewpan with a lump of butter ; draw the gravy 
gently ; add two quarts of water, and a sliced onion which has 
been browned by frying in fresh butter ; add a bunch of sweet 
herbs, six cloves, a blade of mace, a teaspoon full of allspice, 
and one of black peppoi*, whole ; stew until the soup is rich 
and brown ; then remove the meat, and strain the soup clear ; 
put it into a dean stewpan; thicken it to a good consistency with 
•ago. 

BAKXD BOUP. 

Cut into slices a pound and a half of lean beef^ put it into a 
stewpan or earthen jar, and two onions sliced, the same num 
ber of carrots, cut up ; add also three ounces of rice, which has 
been soaked two hours previously, and thoroughly washed, a 
pint of white peas ; season with pepper and salt ; cover down 
dose, and bake two hours. 

CURRT SOUP. 

Oit the meat fh)m an ox-cheek, and soak it well ; put in a 
stewpan, with three onions cut in slices, and a bunch of pot 
herbs ; add three quarts of water ; remove the scum frequent- 
ly, and strain; add half a pound of soaked rice, one teaspoon 
full of curry powder, a little pepper and salt, and stew four 
boon. 

SOUP AKD BOUILLI. 

Stew a brisket of beef, with some turnips, carrots^ onions, and 
celery, all cut small ; put the beef into the pot first, then the 
roots ; add a few cloves, and a half pint of beef gravy ; sim 
mer an hour ; add sufficient beef gravy to fill the pan ; boil 
gently for half an hour. 



SOUPS. 87 

HESSIAN SOUP. 

Cat into slioes three pounds of shin of beef^ laj it in a stew- 
pan, put in three onions, five carrots, eight potatoes, a pint and 
a quarter of split peas, three heads of celery, some whole pep- 
per, and salt ; pour in by degrees seven quarts of water ; stew 
until reduced to half. If the soup alone be required, strain off 
the vegetables ; if not, serve as cooked. 

MACCARONI 80I7P. 

To a rich beef or other soup, in which there is no seasoning 
other than pepper or salt, add half a pound of small pipe mac- 
caroni ; boil it in dear water until it is tender ; then drain it, 
and cut it in pieces of an inch length ; boil it for fifteen min- 
utes in the soup, and serve. 

: PRENCH SOUP. 

To one quart of milk add, when boiling, about ^ve boiled 
Irish potatoes, rubbed through a sieve, of which a paste is made ; 
when the milk and potatoes have boiled up once, sdd three 
well beaten eggs, and a piece of butter the size of an e^. If 
it boils after the eggs are added, it is apt to curdle ; stir it 
round till it is well mixed, and serve it up. 

PORTABLE SOUP. 

There are many advantages connected with this soup, which 
will present themselves to the lady housekeeper — its constant 
readiness for use, its forming an excellent stock for gravies, 
sauces, or soups ; a few minutes will suffice to make a basin 
of soup from it. 

Take three pounds of beef, a shin of beef, the bones of which 
should be broken, a cow-heel, and two small knuckles of veal, 
put them into a stewpan, and add as much water as will barely 
cover them ; put in three onions, and seasoning to taste ; stew 
the meat to ribbons ; strain, and then put it in the coldest 



38 PRACTICAL OOOKERT* 

place you can command ; when thoroughly cold, take off the 
fat, and boil it fast in a stewpan without the lid, on a quick 
fire ; let it boil, and keep it stirred fbr at least eight hours ; 
pour it into a pan, and let it stand for twenty -four hours ; then 
take your largest lip-basin, and turn the soup into it ; boil suf> 
fident water in the stewpan to reach as high outside the basin 
which is placed in it as the soup is inside, but do not let any 
bubble into the basin ; keep the water boiling until the soup 
is reduced to a good consistency; it will then be done; it 
should be poured into small jelly-pots, or in saucers, so as to 
form cakes when cold, and is best preserved in tin canisters, 
put in dry, cool places. 

This soup may receive various flavors of herbs, or anything 
else, by boiling the herbs or other ingredients, and straining 
them through water, making it boil, and then melt the soup in it. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Swell one-quarter of a pound of vermicelli in a quart of 
warm water ; then add it to a good beef, veal, lamb, or chicken 
soup or broth, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; let 
the soup boil for fifteen minutes after it is added. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Cut a neck of mutton into four pieces ; put it aside ; take a 
slice of the gammon of bacon, and put it in a saucepan with a 
quart of peas, with enough water to boil them ; let the peas 
boil to a pulp, and strain them through a cloth ; put them 
aside ; add enough water to that in which is the bacon to boil 
the mutton ; slice three turnips, as many carrots, and boil for 
an hour slowly ; add sweet herbs, onions, cabbage, and let- 
tuces, chopped small ; stew a quarter of an hour longer, 
Bufik^ient to cook the mutton ; then take it out ; take some 
fresh green peas, add them with some chopped parsley, aod 



SOUPS. 30 

the peas first boiled, to the soup ; put in a lump of butter 
rolled in flour, and 6tew till the green peas are done. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Joint a chicken, wash the pieces, put them into a stewpan 
with three pints of water, and add two ounces of rice, two or 
three blades of raaoe, some white pepper, whole, and a pinch 
of salt; let it come to a boil, skim frequently, simmer for 
three hours ; boil for five minutes in the soup some vermicelli, 
and serve with it in the soup. 

BGO DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

To a half pint of milk put two well-beaten eggs, and as 
much wheat flour as will make a smooth, rather thick batter, 
free from lumps ; drop this batter, a tablespoon full at a time, 
into boiling soup. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Take the yolk of six hard boiled eggs and half a tablespoon 
full of wheat flour ; rub them smooth with the yolk of two 
raw eggs and a teaspoon full of salt ; mix all well together ; 
make it into balls, and drop them into the boiling soup a few 
minutes be^re taking it up. 

' SOUPS OP POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

PIGEON SOUP. 

Take half a dozen of the fattest pigeons you can get, roast 
them only sufficient to warm them through ; cut the meat from 
the bones ; flour the latter well, and pound them in a mortar ; 
stew them in a pint and a half of good gravy ; add a piece of 
butter rolled in flour, a few onions, parsley, and a few turnips 
and carrots sliced; season with cayenne and one blade of 
mace ; boil slowly two hours ; pour and pass through a cul- 
lender ; rub through a sieve, and then with the flesh of the 



40 PRACTICAL COOKXRT. 

pigeons put them into a saucepan. Let it Bimmer one hour, 
and serve. 

PARTRIDGB SOUP. 

When you have a brace of partridges which prove to be re- 
markably old, convert them into soup ; skin and cut them up ; 
cut a handsome slice of ham, as lean as possible, and divide it 
into four, or cut as many thin slices, put theiu in the pan ; add 
the partridges, with an onion sliced, some celery, and four 
ounces of butter ; brown nicely, without burning ; put them 
into the stewpan, with one quart and a pint of water ; throw 
in a few white peppers whole, a shank of mutton ; salt it to pal- 
ate, and strain ; add stewed celery, fried bread, and previous to 
its boiling, skim very clean, and serve up. 

OHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil two pounds of veal or lamb, and one small chicken ; 
cut up in three quarts of water; skim it clear ; slice two white 
onions, grate two small carrots, and put to the soup ; add two 
tablespoons full of salt, and one of pepper ; let it boil gently 
for nearly two hours ; then add a tablespoon full of butter, 
and the same of flour worked together ; cover it for fifteen 
minutes, and serve it in a tureen. Place the chicken in a deep 
dish; add butter and pepper to it, and serve, garnished with 
sprigs of parsley ; the meat may be made into balls, and put 
in the soup ; chop it fine ; add a tablespoon full of butter and 
flour each, and a saltspoon full of pepper, with one beaten egg ; 
dip your hands in flour, and make the prepaiBtion in balls ; 
drop them into soup with the butter and flour. 

calf's hbad soup. 

Boil the head, liver, tongue, brains, ^., the day before wish- 
ing to use it ; take it, when perfectly tender, out of the liquor, 
and set it away to oool ; skim the liquor while boiliiAg. Takft 



80UP8. 41 

all the bones from the meat ; cut it in small pieces ; put it 
into the liquor, with salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, cloves, and 
a little cayenne ; boil two hours, then add a pint of red wine. 
Boil ten eggs hard ; take five and braid with a little flour and 
butter, to thicken the soup ; the other five cut in slices to gar- 
nish the soup. While the head is cooking, keep a teakettle 
of water boiling, to replenish the pot with. For a small fam- 
ily the head may be served the first day as a plain, bgiled dish, 
with drawn butter. There will be enough left fur a good soup, 

"FISH SOUPS. 

ESL SOUP. 

Take any number of pounds of eels, according to the quan- 
tity required j add two-thirds water ; if about three or four 
pounds of eels, add one onion, a small quantity of mace, a lit- 
tle pepper whole, sweet herbs, a crust of the top side of bread -, 
cover down close ; stew till the 6sh separates ; strain. Toast 
slices of bread deep brown, but not to bum ; cut into triangu- 
lar pieces or squares a piece of.carrot two inches long, cut into 
four slices lengthwise ; put into a tureen with the toast ; pour 
the soup on ; boiling cream may be added, thickened with a 
little flour, but it should be rich enough without it. 

CLAM BO OF. 

Fifty large or one hundred small dams will be sufficient 
In removing them frpm the shell, carefully preserve the liquor, 
which should be strained, and to it add a quart of milk and 
water each ; if the dams are lai^, cut each in two, and put 
them into it ; set them over a moderate fire until the dams are 
tender, (about one hour ;) skim it clear ; put to it half a pound 
of soda crackers, broken small, or half a pound of butter crack- 
ers, rolled fine ; cover the pot for ten minutes ; then add quar- 
ter of a pound of sweet butter, and serve hot 



42 PRAOTIOAL OOOKERY. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Extract the meat from the shells of four h^n lobsters, which 
have been boiled ; put the spawn aside ; beat the fins and 
small claws in a mortar ; then place both in a saucepan, with 
two quarts of water, until the whole goodness of the fish has 
been drawn ; then strain the liquor. Beat in a mortar the 
spawn, a lump of flour, and butter ; rub it through a sieve into 
the soup previously strained ; simmer without boiling, that the 
color may be preserved, ten minutes ; squeeze in the piece of 
a lemon, with a little of the essence of anchovies. 

When this dish is sent to table as a feature, forcemeat balls 
are served with it ; they are made of minced lobster, spawn, 
crumb of French roll, egg, and mace pounded ; roll it in flour, 
and serve in the soup. 

OTBTBR SOUP. 

Mix three pints each of milk and water. Half a pound of 
butter crackers, or soda biscuit (rolled fine) should be added 
with a pint of oysters, (chopped fine,) when the milk and 
water comes to a boil. Let it boil until the flavor of the oyster 
is given to the soup, and the crackers are well swelled ; then 
add salt and pepper to taste, and three pints more of the 
oysters, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter ; cover it 
for ten minutes more, then serve it in a tureen. 

VEGETABLE SOUPa 

YEGETABLB SOUP. 

There are numerous methods of making this soup, the vari- 
ations depending upon the omission or addition of certain 
. vegetables, and in the mode of serving the soup, with them or 
without them. The following is as simple and as palatable 
as any. 

Collect whatever vegetables are in season ; take equal quan 



80UP8. 43 

titles turnips; carrots, cabbage, spinach, celery, parsley, onion, a 
little mint, &c ; add plenty of herbs ; cut them fine ; put them 
into the stewpan ; stew gently until the vegetables become ten- 
der, then add two quarts of boiling water ; stew a quarter of 
an hour, and serve. 

Some oooks advocate the introduction of peas, green or white, 
to Uiis soap ; where they are used, l^ey must be boiled until 
tender, in very little water ; then mashed into a very loose 
paste ; the vegetables, having been scalded, are then added, 
and two hours will suffice for stewing ; season it with salt 
and pepper. 

Be careful that it does not bum while cooking, or the whole 
is spoiled^ 

OABBAOI SOUP. 

Cut your cabbage into four parts, then let them be partly 
boiled ; squeeze them dry, and place them in a large pan or 
dish, so that there may be room betwixt each piece of cabbage, 
to take up soup with a large spoon ; let them boil with as 
much gravy or stock as will cover them ; let them stew for 
two hours before dinner, then put a quarter of a pound of 
butter and a handful of flour into a saucepan, set it over a fire, 
and, keeping it stirred, add two onions minced, and stir it 
again ; then add a quart of veal gravy ; boil it a little, and 
pour it all over the cabbage. If you choose, you may force 
pigeons with good force-meat, made of veal ; fry them, and 
then stew them with the cabbage, putting in with them a lit- 
tle bacon, stuck with cloves ; when it has stewed away, take 
off the &t, soak bread in your dish with gravy or stock ; place 
your fowl in the middle, and the cabbage all around ; gar- 
nish the dish with slices of baoon, and a little cabbage be- 
tween each slice! 



44 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

▲BPARAGUB SOUP, WITH OREBlf PBAB. 

Make a soup of roots, and when strained, boil a pint of green 
peas in the liquor. Choose some middling sized asparagus ; 
cut them in pieces about three inches long ; blanch them in 
boiling water, and then throw them into cold water; drain 
them, and tie them in small bunches ; split the tops, and boil 
them with the peas. When done, make a porridge of them, 
and mis it with the root soup, and garnish with the asparagus. 
Good meat broth may be used instead of the root soup. 

A8PARAG.U8 SOUP CLEAR. 

Blanch two hundred tops of asparagus, and boil them in 
a good gravy ; serve with slices of bread just hardened by 
the fire. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Put a pint of peas into a quart of water ; boil them until 
they are so tender as easily to be pulped through a sieve. 
Take of the leanest end of a loin of mutton three' pounds ; cut 
it into chops ; put it into a saucepan with a gallon of water, 
four carrots, four turnips, cut in small pieces; season with 
pepper and salt Boil until all the vegetables are quite ten- 
der ; put in the pulped peas a head of celery, and a sliced onion ; 
boil fifteen minutes, and serve. 

ONIOK SOUP. 

In two quarts of weak mutton broth, slice two turnips, and 
as many carrots; strain iL Fry six onions, cut in slices; 
when nicely browned, add them to the brodi ; simmer three 
hours ; skim, and serve. 

CELERT SOUP. 

Stew fine, white celery, cut in small slips, in gravy ; then 
boU it in good gravy. 



SOUPS. 45 

Bjcm SOUP. 

Steep some fine rice in oold water for an hour, say four 
ounoes; then boil it ; add three quarts of gravy ; add a pinch 
of cayenne, a little salt, and boil five oilnutes. 

CLEAR PSA SOUP. 

Boil in two quarts of gravy a quart of 'young peas ; add a 
lettuce, cut fine, and a small sprig of mint 

GRSEN PEA SOUP. 

To a small quarter of lamb put six quarts of cold water, 
and two tablespoons full of salt Boil gently for two hours ; 
then skim clear ; add a quart of shelled peas, and a little pep- 
per. Let it boil for half an hour, and then add a quart of 
young potatoes, scraped. Cover the pot, and let it boil for 
half an hour longer; work a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
a dessertspoon full of flour together, and add them to the soup 
ten or twelve minutes before taking it off the fire. Serve 
soup in a tureen, and the meat (with parsley sauce over) on a 
dish. # 

PEA BOUP. 

Take one quart of split peas. Put them to soak in a large 
quantity of water over night In the morning pour off the 
water; put them on to boil in a gallon of water. Have 
a teakettle of boiling water to add, in case it becomes too 
thick. When the peas are very soft, pour them into a cullen- 
der, and rub them through with a wooden spoon. Wash the 
pot that they were boiled in thoroughly, because if any of the 
peas adhere, they will be apt to burn. Then put them back, 
and let them boU slowly, over a gentle fire, till they are suffi- 
ciently thick. 

Take a pound of nice salt pork ; boil it in a separate ket-* 



46 PRACTIOjIX C00EXR7. 

tie for an hour; then put it in with the peas, and let it 
boil another hour, to season them. Serve the soup in a 
tureen, and the pork on a dish. Have toasted bread, cut 
in small pieces, to eat with it^ 



CHAPTER IIL 



0SSBB7ATIOKS OK MKATS. 



In the choice of meats, the ribs, the sirloin and the porter- 
house piecea are the best for roastjng. The best steaks are the 
airloiD and porter-house. The round, or buttock, the edge- 
bone, the second round, or mouse-buttock, the shin, the brisket, 
the shoulder, or leg of mutton piece, and the clod m&y be boiled 
or stewed. Hie neck is generally used for soup or gravy ; 
and the thin flank for collaring. 

Meat intended to be kept a few days in hot weather, should 
not be Mited. D17 it wall in a dean doth, rub ground pep 



48 PRACTICAL COOKERY. 

per plentifully over every part of it first, then flour it well, and 
hang it in a cool, dry place where the air will come to it ; be 
sure always that there is no damp place about it ; when you 
find any, dry it with a cloth ; pepper will secure meat from 
flies. 

If the meat has to be roasted, a clear fire is indispensable ; 
and the fire should also be maintained at one uniform heat by 
the addition of coal, only in small quantities. If the joint is 
large, it should be commenced as far from the fire as the ap- 
paratus will permit, and as it progresses, gradually be moved 
nearer tbe fire until done ; this will ensure, in large and thick 
joints, the heart of the meat being properly done, while it 
prevents the outer parts from being cooked to a chip. A small 
joint should have a brisk fire, should be well basted, as also 
larger joints ; it should be sprinkled with salt, and dredged 
with flour when three parts cooked, but it should be remem- 
bered that this must not be left until the meat is just cooked, 
for the fire is apt to catch the flour, and give it a most disa- 
greeable flavor. 

The time necessary for cooking a joint must depend, of 
course, upon the weight of the joint to be roasted ; experience 
gives not less than fifi^een minutes to each pound of meat; 
where the quantity is very lai^e an extra two or three minutes 
must be given. 

In boiling meat, as much attention must be paid as in other 
prrx^ess ; if the joint be permitted to boil too rapidly, the cook 
may be satisfied the meat will go to table as hard as it could 
be wished to be tender ; if while cooking it should be allowed 
to stop boiling, it will prove underdone when cut, even though 
more than the usual time be allowed for it to be cooked. The 
meat generally is better for being soaked a short time, and then 
wrapping it in a cloth well floured, if firesh ; if salt, the water 
should be kept free from scum as fast as it appears. AU joint? 
to be boiled should be put into cold water and heated gradu 



40 

ally, and nothing boiled with it save a dumpling, or if bee( 
carrots or parsnips. 

ROAST MSATS. 

In every case where meat is washed before roasting, it should 
be well dried before it is put down to the fire. As soon as 
the fat begins to Mi from the meat, put down a dean dish and 
then baste with the dripping as it falb ; the meat should not 
be sprinicled with salt until nearly cooked, or too much gravy 
will be produced. Preserve the dripping ; pour it from tfauo 
dish into some boiling water ; leave it to cool. When cold it 
will be hard, white, and all the impurities will be deposited at 
the bottom, it occasionally happens that the joint cannot be 
sent to table as soon as cooked ; in such case place it on a dish 
upon a fish kettle of boiling water ; place over it a dish cover, 
and spread over all a doth ; the meat will thus be kept as hot 
as if placed before a fire, but will not be dried, nor will the 
gravy be evaporated. 

B0IU9O. 

The learned in the art of boiling recommend diflferent times 
for the completion of the process, some allowing fifleen minutes 
to each pound, others twenty. All the best authorities agree 
in this, that the longer the boiling the more perfect the operation. 

When taken from the pot be careful not to let the meat 
stand, but send it to table as quick as possible, or it will darken 
and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roast, cannot be 
served too hot. 

Soft water is preferable to hard, for boiling. The meat 
should be put in cold water, and not in hot, unless for a special 
purpose, as that renders it dark and hard. All meats are best 
cooked by boiling gently, as fast boiling spoils the meat and 
does it no quicker. Salted meats should most particularly be 
slowly boiled — in fact it should scarcely simmer ; it is indis 



50 F&ACTICAL COOXERT. 

pensable that the water should cover the meat, consequently 
the dimensions of the pot should be suited to the bulk of the 
joint. The instant the pot boils, it should be skimmed oon- 
Btantly. 

BROILING. 

The cook must prepare her fire in due time. When ready, 
it should be clear and bright, so clear from black coal and 
smoke that the chop or steak may come from the gridiron 
without blemish or taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuol 
for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke. No gridiron 
should be used but those with fluted bars, which, forming chan- 
nels, the greater part of the fiit which otherwise falls into the 
fire, and scorches the stealc, is drawn off into a gutter at the 
bottom ; the gridiron should be thoroughly heated, and the bars 
rubbed with beef or mutton suet previously to putting on the 
steak, to prevent its being marked by, or adhering to, the bars. 
A close eye should be kept on the steak to watch the moment 
for turning it, which is repeatedly done during the process. 
The cook must have her dish thoroughly heated to receive the 
broil when done, and the cover hot to place upon it histantly. 
Even when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who 
is to take it to table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost 
its zest A steak or chop should be briskly cooked, speedily 
oonveyed to table, and served with dispatch. 

ROAST BEEF. 

There exialts a variety of tastes and opinions respecting the 
most profitable, as well as the choicest, parts of beef, but many 
of them are choice and profitable, too, if cooked with skill ;- the 
primest parts are roasted, except the round, which should be 
boiled ; the ribs make the finest roasting joint. 

Where a small quantity is required, it is better for the bones 
to be cut out and the meat rolled ; this should be done by the 
butober, wha will not only out oloaner, but skewer the parts 



BKSF. 51 

into a fillet with more firmness and neatness than the cook, 
who is not expected to be as expert with the knifb and skewer 
as the butcher. The tops of the ribs are frequently cut off 
into pieces of three or four pounds ; this piece, though ooca* 
sionally roasted, should be salted ; it is then not unlike in flavor 
to the brisket 

In roasting the ribs, or any piece of bee^ the precautions 
mentioned respecting placing it too near the fire must be ob- 
served, and where there is much fat, and it is desired to pre- 
serve it firom being cooked before the lean, it may be covered 
with clean white paper skewered over it ; when it is nearly 
done the paper should be removed, a little flour dredged over 
it, and a rich frothy appearance will be obtained. The joint 
should be served up with potatoes and other v^etables ; the 
dish should be garnished round the edge with horse-radish 
scraped into thin curls. This recipe will suffice for all the 
other roasting parts of beef. 

TO COLLAE BEEF. 

Choose the thinnest end of the flank of beef ; it must not be 
too &t or too lean ; the weight will be from eight to ten 
pounds ; let it hang in a cool place twenty-four hours ; when 
the skin appears moibt, rub in some coarse brown sugar, and 
in forty-eight hours afterward you may place it in a pan in 
which there is a brine, made of three quarters of a pound o' 
salt and an ounce and a half extract of saltpetre ; rub it well 
with the brine for a week ; take out the bones, the gristle, and 
the inner skin. 

Make a seasoning of sweet herbs, parsley, sage, pepper, 
ground spice, and salt, cover the beef well with it, roll it in a 
cloth, and tie firmly and securely with broad tape ; boil it six 
hours, but boil gently ; take it out, and while hot, without dis- 
turbing the fastenings, place upon it a weighty that when cold 
and unrolled it may retain its shape. 



52 FRAOTIOAL COOKERY. 

TO COOK THE INSIDE OF A SIRLOIN. 

Take out the inside of the sirloin in one piece, put it into a 
stewpan, and sufficient good gravy to cover it, season with 
mixed spice, pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a spoon full of wal- 
nut ketchup ; more of the latter may be added, if the quantity 
made should require it to flavor ; serve with pickled gherkins 
cut small. 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED. 

If unaccustomed to the use of the knife, the butcher's aid 
may be obtained to cut the iillet which comes from the inside 
of the sirloin, it may be larded or roasted plain ; for high din- 
ners it is larded ; baste with fresh butter. It must be a large 
fillet which takes longer than an hour and twenty minutes ; 
serve with tomato sauce, garnish with horse radish, unless 
served with currant jelly, then serve as with venison or hare. 

ALAMODE BEEF. 

Make a stuffing of a loaf of bread, grated, or rubbed very 
fine, a large hand full of shred beef suet, a nutmeg, a little thyme 
and sweet marjoram, mixed with three eggs, and a little pep- 
per and salt Make on each side of the beef a number of 
holes with a slmrp knife and press in the stuffing. Put the 
whole into a pot with three quarts of water, a little mace, whole 
pepper, some cloves, an onion cut very fine. Stew it over a fire 
without blaze. When the beef is half done, turn it over, and 
skim off as much of the fat as is possible. Just before it is suf* 
ficiently done, mix a little of the liquor with two or three spoons 
full of flour, half a bottle of red wine, (if a lai^e round or 
whole one.) Put some sticks or skewers across the bottom of 
the pot to prevent the beef burning. To make the forced 
meat balls, take a piece of beef with some suet, chop them 
well with a little onion, sweet marjoram, thyme, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, mace, some crumbs of bread wet with an ^g. Mako 



BBEF. 53 

the bolls and fry them brown ; gaminh the dish with them, and 
flome hard boiled eggs. 

FILLBT, OR BOUND OF BKXF — BPIOXD. 

Gret the ribs of heet Have ready pounded and sifted, some 
doyes, maoe, allspice, pepper, a little saltpetre, and salt ; mix 
all well together, rub your beef well, then tie it tightly up into 
a good round fillet ; let it lie for a day or two, then put it into 
the oven to set the meat, then place it in astewpan with a little 
second stock ; put &t bacon at the bottom of the stewpan, and 
half a pint of port wine, stew it about two hours, according to 
the size, make a yery good sauce, reduce the liquor, and take 
off all the fitt, until sufficient to make the sauce ; season with 
cayenne pepper and salt ; if approved of, add some hot pickles 
of different colors, the last thing in the sauce. Add a dust of 
sugar to your sauce. 

BXKF OlIYBS. 

Cut into slices about half an inch in thickness, the underdone 
part of cold boiled, or roast bee^ cut a small onion up finely, 
mix it with some crumbs of bread, powdered with pepper and 
salt, and cover the slices of meat with them, then roll, and se- 
cure them with a skewer ; put them into a stewpan, cover them 
with the gravy from the beef mixed with water, stew gently ; 
when tender they are done enough; serve them with beef 
gravy. 

hu^tsr's bkxf. 

Hang for three days a round of beef of twenty pounds ; at 
the expiration of that time rub it with brine, composed of 
three ounces of saltpetre, twelve ounces of salt, a spoonful of 
allspice, one of black pepper, an ounce of coarse brown sugar ; 
before it is rubbed withthis mixture it must be boned, and it 
must be rubbed well every dsy, turning, for a fortnight When 



54 PRACTIOAL COOKERY. 

it is to be dressed put it into a stewpan, pour in a pint of ^a- 
ter, shred a quantity of mutton suet, cover the meat with it, 
lay over it a thick crust, attaching it around the edge of the 
pan ; tie over securely with paper, and bake for six hours in an 
oven moderately heated ; take away the paper and crust, chop 
some parsley very fine, sprinkle it over the beef) and serve it 
cold. It will keep some time ; the gravy will make a good 
flavoring for soups. 

RUMP 6TEAX STEWED. 

Cut a steak about an inch thick with a good bit of fat, fry it 
over a brisk fire, place it in a stewpan with the gravy, a little 
good stock, a little port wine, and some chopped mushrooms, 
stew gently ; when tender put into it some good brown sauce, 
shake it gently about; dish it, and put scraped or grated 
horse-radish on the top; if for oysters or mushrooms, see 
those sauces; season with salt, cayenne pepper, and sugar. 

BEEF PALATES. 

Take as many as required, let them simmer until they 
peel, put them in a rich gravy, stew until very tender, sea- 
son with cayenne, salt, two teaspoons full of mushroom ketcup— 
serve. 

BEEF STEAKS — ^BROILBD. 

Be particular that the fire is dear ; it is of no use to attempt 
to broil a steak over a duU, smoky, or flaring fire ; see that the 
gridiron is clean, and the bars rubbed with suet preparatory to 
laying on the steak ; when they are browned, turn them ; do 
not be afraid of doing this oflen, as this is the best plan to pre- 
serve the gravy. When they are done rub them over with a 
piece of fresh butter, pepper and salt them, and send them to 
table with oyster sauce, a dish of nicely cooked greens, and well 
hoUnd potatoes. 



BUr. 65 

"OKFr PTXAK8 ROLLED AND R0A8TBD. 

Out hsndAomo steaks from the rump, and if not sufficiently 
tender let them be well beaten, make a rich stuffing of equal 
parts of ham and veal well peppei-ed, stew it for a short time, 
and pound it in a mortar with bread steeped in milk, a lump 
of butter, and the yolk of two or three eggs ; spread this force 
meat over the steaks, roll them up and tie them tightly, roast 
them before a clear lire. They will occupy an hour and twenty 
minutes to an hour and a half roasting ; baste well with butter 
while roasting, and serve with brown gravy. 

8TBWXD BEEF STEAKS. 

Stew the steaks in three parts of a pint of water, to which 
has been added a bunch of sweet herbs, two blades of mace, an 
onion stuck with cloves — say three— an anchovy, and a lump 
of butter soaked in flour, pour over a glass of sherry or Ma> 
deira. Stew with the pan covered down, until the steaks ans 
tender, but not too much so ; then place them in a fryingpan 
with enough of fresh butter, hissing hot, to cover them, fry 
them brown, pour off the &t, and in its place pour into the pan 
the gravy in which the steaks were stewed ; when the graVy 
is thoroughly heated, and is of a rich con^stency, place the 
steaks in a hot dish, pour the sauce over them. The steaks 
should be large, the finest from the rump, and have a due pro- 
portion of &t with theoL 

BBB7 KIDNEYS STEWED. 

Procure a couple of very fine beef kidneys, cut them in sli- 
ces, and lay them in a stewpan ; put in two ounces of butter, 
and cut into very thin slices four large onions ; add them, and 
a sufficiency of pepper and salt, to season well. Stew them 
about an hour ; add a cup full of rich gravy to that extracted 
from th6 kidney. Stew five minutes, strain it, and thicken the 



56 PRAOTIOAL COOKXRT, 

gravy with flour and butter, give it a boil up. Serve witli the 
gravy in the dish. 

BESF OAKS. 

Choose lean beef; it should also be very tender; if a pound, 
put six ounces of beef suet ; rainoe freely, and season with 
cloves, maoe, and salt, in fine powder ; put the largest propor- 
tion of salt, and least of mace ; add half the quantity of the 
latter of cayenne ; cut into thin slices a pound of bacon, and 
lay them all round the inside, but not at the bottom of a ba- 
king dish ; put in the meat, pressing it closely down ; cover it 
with the remaining slices of bacon ; lay a plate over it, face 
downwards, and upon it something heavy to keep it from 
shifting. If there be three pounds of bee^ bake two hours 
and a half; remove the bacon, and serve with a little rich 
gravy. These cakes may be made oi mutton, or veal, or 
venison. 

BKSF BBART. 

Wash it very carefully ; stuff it the same as you would a 
hare ; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy and cur- 
rant jelly sauce ; hash with the same and port wine. 

BEEF HEART. 

Let it be thoroughly well cooked, and the skin removed. 
Wipe it daily with a clean cloth ; stuff it with veal stuffing ; 
roast two hours and a quarter. Make a brown gravy, as for 
hare, and serve with the gravy and currant jelly. 

The most pleasant way to the palate of dressing this dish, 
is to roast the heart for rather less than two hours ; let it get 
cold ; cut it in pieces, and jug it the same as hare. 

BEEF OOLLOP8. 

Any part of beef which is tender, will serve to make col- 
lops : cut the beef into pieces about three inches long ; beat 



BXXF. 57 

them flat; dredge them with flour; firj them in butter; lay 
them in a stewpan ; cover them with brown gravy ; put in half 
a small onion minced fine ; a lump of butter rolled in flour to 
thicken, with a little pepper and salt; stew without suflering 
it to boil ; serve with pickles, or squeeze in half a lemon, ac- 
oording to taste ; serve ia a tureen, and hot 

BRIBKST OF BXEF BTBWSD. 

Take any quantity of brisket of beef requured, say eight or 
ten pounds ; cover it with water ; stew till tender ; bone the 
beef and skim off the fat; strain the gravy; add a glass of 
port wine ; flavor with spice tied in a bag. Have boiled vege- 
tables r^y ; cut them into squares, and garnish the beef from 
the gravy round it, and serve. 

STXW OF OZ-OHBXK. 

Oean and wash it well ; cut off the fleshiest parts, and break 
the bones into an available size ; put it into a stewkettle with 
enough water to cover it; season with salt; the pepper should 
be whole, and with a few cloves, and a blade of mace tied in a 
bag made of muslin ; put it into the water with three onions, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen carrots sliced, a head of 
celery sliced, and four or five turnips of tolerable size ; stew 
from Ave to seven hours ; before serving, the meat may be 
removed, and the gravy thickened and browned ; serve hot, 
with the meat in the gravy. 

Shin of beef is very excellent, dressed in this &shion. 

BXXF 8AUNDBR8. 

Wash, and put in a saucepan two pounds of potatoes ; cover 
them well with water, and throw in a hand full of salt ; let them 
just reach the boil, but never actually boil until they are done. 
Peel them, mash them with milk and two ounces of butter ; 
season with cayenne pepper and salt, and lay in a smooth paste, 



58 PRAOTICAL COOKKBT. 

a sufficiencj to cover the bottom of a dish ; upon this lay sli- 
ces cut a moderate thickness of rare beefj very dose together. 
Pour two tablespoons full of the richest gravy you have over 
it, and cover with a crust of potatoes, mashed ; bake in a slow 
oven for five-and-forty-minutes. 

The meat may be minced for this dish, and, indeed, is usu- 
ally cooked so for the sake of time ; it occupies half an hour 
only, or lescs in cooking. It can be made of mutton as well 
as bee^ or of pork or beef sausage meat 

▲ BSXF STKW. 

Take two or three pounds of the rump of beef, cut away all 
the &t and skin, and cut it into pieces about two or three 
inches square ; put it into a stewpan, and pour on to it a quart 
of broth ; let it boil ; sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to 
taste ; when it has boiled very gently, or simmered two hours, 
shred finely a large lemon, add it to the gravy, and in twenty 
minutes pour in a flavoring composed of two tablespoons full 
of Harvey's sauce ; the juice of the lemon, the rind of which 
has been sliced into the gravy ; a spoonful of flour, and a lit- 
tle ketchup ; add at pleasure two glasses of Madeira, or one 
of sherry, or port, a quarter of an hour afber the flavoring, and 
serve. 

BBKF HASHXD. 

Take the bones of the joint to be hashed, and break them 
small ; stew them in a very littde water, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a few onions ; roll a lump of butter in flour, brown 
it in a stewpan ; pour the gravy to it, and add the meat to be 
hashed ; cut two small onions in thin slices, a carrot also, and 
a little parsley shred finely ; stew gently until the meat is hot 
through, and serve. 



BBfir. 59 

TO DRS68 BEXF TOHGim. 

To dress them, boil the tongue tender ; it will take five 
hours ; always dress them as they come out of the pickle, un- 
less they have been very long there ; then they may be soaked 
three or four hours in cold water ; or if they have been smoked, 
and hung long, they should be softened, by lying in water five 
or six hours ; they should be brought to a boil gently, and then 
simmer until tender. 

TO 8TXW A TONOUS. 

Cut away the root of the tongue, but leave the fat under- 
neath, and salt for seven days. Put it into a saucepan, and 
boil gently until tender, and it will peel easily. Put it into a 
stewpan ; cover it with a rich gravy, into which put a* spoon 
full of mushroom ketchup, one of soy, and half a spoon full of 
cayenne pepper. Stew in the gravy a few mushrooms, and 
serve them in the gravy. 

BSSr SAUSAGES. 

To three pounds of beef^ very lean, put one pound and a 
half of suet, and chop very finely ; season with sage in powder, 
allspice, pepper, and salt ; have skins thoroughly cleaned, and 
force the meat into them. 

teSF BROTH. 

Take a leg of beef, and wash it clean ; crack the bone in two 
or three parts ; put it into a pot with a gallon of water ; skim 
it well ; then put two or three blades of mace in a little bun- 
dle of parsley, and a crust of bread ; let it boil till the beef is 
quite tender ; toast some bread, and cut it into dice; put them 
into a tureen ; lay in the meat, and pour the soup over it 

MARROW BONES. 

They must be sawn into convenient sizes ; cover the ends 
with a little dough, made of flour and water, and tie them in 



00 FRAOnOAL OOOKXRT. 

a floured doth ; boQ them an hour and a half;- serve on a 
napkin, with dry toast 

TRIPS. 

Take two pounds of fresh tripe, cleaned and dressed by the 
tripe-dresser ; cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it in equal 
parts of milk and water ; twenty minutes to half an hour will 
be long enough. Boil in the same water whidi boils the tripe 
four large onions ; the onions should be put on the fire at least 
half an hour before the tripe is put into the stewpan, and then 
made into a rich onion sauce, which serve with the tripe. 

Tripe is cleaned, dried, cut into pieces, and fried in batter, 
and served with melted butter. 

Tripe is cut into slices; three eggs are beaten up with 
minced parsley, sweet herbs, onions chopped exoeedii^ly fine, 
parsley, and mushrooms. The tripe is dipped into this mix* 
ture, and fried in boiling lard. 

Tripe may be cut into collops, covered with a mixture of 
parsley, onions, and mushrooms, minced exceedingly fine, and 
fried in clarified or fresh butter. Serve mushroom sauce 
with it 

Tripe can be stewed in gravy, in which put parsley, onions^ 
and mushrooms, or in lieu of the latter, mushroom ketchup. 
Thicken the gravy with flour and butter. When the tripe is 
tender it will be done. A lemon may be sent to table with it 
After the tripe has been cleaned, boil it perfectly tender ; serve 
with melted butter. If there is more than required, cut in 
small pieces, and put in a stone jar, covering it with vinegar 
and wat^ ; it will keep two or three weeks m a cool place. 
When wanted, stew like oysters. 

8M0KSD BXRir. 

One quart of molasses, thick with salt; one tablespoon fill] 
<rf* saltpetre. The meat to be well rubbed with this ; then let 
il lie three weeks before amoking. 



61 



POTTSD BKXF. 

To a pound of oommon salt, put a quarter of an ounce of 
saltpetre, and two ounces of coarse sugar. Rub three pounds 
of lean beef with this, and let it remain in the brine fifty hours. 
Drain and dry it ; pepper it well with black pepper ; put it 
into a pan ; cut half a pound of butter in slices, and lay round 
it ; lay a paste crust over it, and bake it very slowly four hours 
and a half Let it get cold, and then cut off the meat, being 
careful to separate the stringy pieces from it ; pound it in a mor- 
tar, working up with it four ounces of fresh butter, and some 
of the gravy from the meat when baked, seasoned with ground 
allspice, a little mace and pepper. When the meat has been 
combined with the butter and gravy, until it is worked into an 
even paste, put it into jarsy and cover with clarified butter. 



CHAPTER IV. 

VEAL. 

Vbal should be fat, finelj grained, white, firm, and not over- 
grown. It will be found difficult to keep it long. The fillet^ 
the loin, the shoulder, and the best end of the neck, are the 
parts generally selected for roasting ; the breast and knuckle 
are more usually stewed or boiled. Steaks or cutlets are cut 
from the leg or shoulder. 

The liver may be cut in slices and fried like beef liver, or 
broiled and buttered. Boil the head and serve with a sauce, 
and make soup of the liquor. The head and ^t make excel- 
lent jellies. 

TUB FILLET OF VBAL. 

The fillet derives much of its pleasant flavor from being 
stufi^. Veal, in itself^ being nearly tasteless, the stuffing 
should be placed in the hollow place from whence the bone is 
extracted,, and the joint should be roasted a beautiful brown ; 
it should be roasted gradually, as the meat being solid will re- 
quire to be thoroughly done through without burning the out- 
side ; like pork, it is sufficiently indigestible without being sent 
to table and eaten half cooked ; a dish of boiled bacon or ham 
should accompany it to table, a lemon, also. 

In roasting veal, care must be taken that it is not at first 
placed too near the fire ; the &t of a loin, one of the most del- 
icate joints of veal, should be covered with greased paper; a 
fillet, also, should have on the caul until nearly cooked enough : 
the shoulder should be thoroughly boiled ; when nearly done 
dredge with flour, and produce a fine froth. 



TEAL. 68 

, BREAST OF VEAL — FORCED. 

After taking out the tendons and all the rib bones, flatten 
and trim the veal, spread it all over with force meat ; sprinkle 
a little pepper and salt over it ; then roll it tightly up and tie 
it ; then put it into a cloth and stew it for several hours ; take 
it up, and take off the cloth and strings ; dry it and glaze it ; 
put some go€>d sauce. 

SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Remove the knuckle and roast what remains, an the fillet ; 
it may or may not be stuffed, at pleasure ; if n<jt st (ilTcd, serve 
with oyster or mushroom sauce; if stuffed, with mclt4ul butter. 

LOIN OF VEAL STEWED. 

The clump end is the part to stew. Put it well floured into 
a stewpan with butter ; after the butter has been browned over 
the fire, brown it, and when a good color, pour in enough veal 
broth to half cover it ; put in two carrots cut in pieces, an on- 
ion, a little parsley, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; stew 
it two hours and a half; turn it when half done ; when enough, 
take out the meat^ thicken the broth, season it, and pour over 
the veaL 

LOIN OF VEAL. 

Divide the loin, roast the kidney, and place under the &t a 
toast, and serve swimming in melted butter. The chump end 
must be stufied with the same stuffing as the fillet, and served 
with the same sauce ; those who object to putting the stuffing in 
the joint, may send it to table with balls of stuffing in the dish. 

KNUCKLE OF YEAJk BTBWXD. 

Place your knuckle of veal in a stewpan ; if the knuckle is 
'a very large one, it may be divided into two or three pieces for 
^ sake of conveoienoe ; put in the pan with it a few blades 




64 PBAOTICiX OOOXEBT. 

of maoe, a little thjme, an onion, some whole pepper, a burnt 
crust of bread, and cover with from three to four pints of 
water ; cover down close, and boil ; when it has boiled, place it 
by the side of the fire and let it simmer for at least two hours ; 
take it up, keep it hot while you strain its liquor, then pour the 
gravy over it, and send it to table with a lemon garnish. 

KKOX 07 VBAL 

May be boiled or roasted — 
the latter, only if it be the best 
end, and sent to table garnished 
as in the engraving — ^it may be 
broiled in chops^ but is best in a 
pie. 

TEAL CUTLBTa. 

The cutlets should be cut as handsomely as possible, and 
about three quarters of an inch in thickness ; they should, be- 
fore cooking, be well beaten with the blade of a chopper if 
a proper beater be not at hand ; they should then be fried a 
light bro¥m and sent up to table, garnished with parsley, and 
rolls of thin sliced, nicely fried bacon ; they are, with advan- 
tage, coated, previously to cooking, with the yolk of an ^g, 
and dredged with bread crumbs. 

VXAL C0TLBT8— CURRIED. 

The cutlets may be prepared as for ooUops by cutting them 
into shape, dipping them into the yolk of eggs, and seasoning 
them with fine bread crumbs about four tablespoons full, two 
spoons full of curry powder, and one of salt ; fry them in fresh 
butter ; serve with curry sauce, which may be made with equal 
parts of curry powder, flour and butter, worked well together 
into a paste ; put it into the pan fix>m which the cutlets have 



YKAL. 65 

been removed, moisten with a cup full of water, in which cay- 
enne and salt have been stirred ; let it thicken, and serve very 
hot 

VKAL POT FIX. 

Prepare the meat, which may be from the breast or scrag, 
by cutting it in small pieces or chops, and then put it into the 
pot, adding water to cover, and half a pound of salt pork, or 
tablespoon full of salt Boil gently and remove the scum as 
it rises, until the meat is tender. Place the whole in a di^ih 
to cool, and make your' crust as follows : Take one quart of 
fiour, two teaspoons full of cream of tartar, one teaspoon ful) 
of salt, one of saleratus or soda, a small piece of butter, and 
mix with milk. Roll out the dough, and line the inside of the 
pot, r&erving enough to cover the pie, and a small quantity to 
cut into squares to be placed inside. Strain the water in which 
the meat was boiled, and put it in the pot; if there is not 
enough nearly to reach the top of the side crust, add water ; 
drop in the bits of paste or dough, dredge in a tablespoon full 
of wheat flour ; add quarter of a pound of butter, cut small, 
unless pork is stewed with the meat, when half as much butter 
IS enough ; put in a large teaspoon full of pepper ; then lay 
some skewers across, from one side crust to the other, and put 
on the top crust ; make a slit in the center to let out the steam , 
cover the pot close, and set it over a moderate fire ; three 
quarters of an hour will bake it ; take care that the fire is not 
so great as to bum it Half a dozen small potatoes, nicely 
peeled, may be put into the pie with the meat 

Diah the top crust up first, then take up the meat and grav^ 
on another dish ; and lastly, the brown crust from the ftides, 
on a dish, with some of the gravy over. Or, take the meat 
into the center of the dish, put the crust around it, and turn 
the gravy over. 

Those who prefer, may omit lining the pot with dough. 

5 



GG * PRAOnOAL GOOKSBT. 

OLIYXB OF VEAL — r6tI. 

Cat some cutlets a moderate thickness from the chump end 
of the loin of veal ; beat them and trim them, eight or a dozen, 
according to dish : get some slices of ham or bacon, cover the 
veal with force meat and with the fat, sprinkle between a little 
chopped mushrooms, pepper and salt ; roll each up, and tie 
and skewer each ; then e^ and bread crumb them ; bake 
them in the oven with buttered paper over them ; cut the string 
when done, and before you send them to table, draw the 
skewer ; put asparagus sauce, tomato, or mushroom in the dish. 

VEAL COLLOPS 

May be cooked precisely similar to beef coUops. • 

OALF^S HEAD. 

Let the head be thoroughly cleaned ; the brains and tongue 
be taken out ; boil it in a doth to keep it white ; (it is well to 
soak the head for two or three hours previously to boiling ; it 
helps to improve the color ;) wash, soak, and blanch the brains ; 
then boil them ; scald some sage, chop it fine, add pepper and 
salt and a little milk ; mix it with the brains ; the tongue, 
which should be soaked in salt and water for twenty-four hours, 
should be boiled, peeled, and served on a separate dish. The 
head should boil until tender, and if intended to be sent to ta- 
ble plainly, should be served as taken up, with melt>ed butter 
and parsley ; if otherwise, when the head is boiled sufficiently 
tender, take it up, spread over a coat of the yolk of egg well 
beaten up ; powder with bread crumbs, and brown before the 
fire, in an oven. 

OALVBS' SABS. 

Scald the hair from the ears, and dean them thoroughly ; 
ooil them until they are tender in veal gravy, and then blanch 



TBAL. 67 

them in cold spriflg water. Serve them in chervil sauce, or in 
the gravy thickened and seasoned in which thej were cooked. 
A sauce may be made of melted butter, with chervil mashed 
and put in, strained with the butter through a sieve, and white 
sauce added. White sauce is sometimes sent up alone with 
the ears ; in that case it should be flavored with mushroom 
powder. 

BOILED VEAL. 

Veal should be boiled in plenty of water ; if boiled in a 
cloth it will be whiter ; it should be boiled by the same rule 
as other meats ; that is, to be put in when the water is cold, 
and boiled gently till tender ; serve with a sau*^ of drawn but- 
ter, parsley, or oyster sauce ; allow fifteen or twenty minutes 
to each pound of meat 

calves' vest. 

They should be very dean ; boil them three hours, or until 
they are tender ; serve them with parsley and butter. 

OALVSS' 7EET — FRICAfiEED. 

Soak them three hours ; «mmer them in equal proportions 
of milk and water, until they are suffidentiy tender to remove 
tiie meat from the bones in good sized pieces. Dip them in 
yolk of an egg, cover them with fine bread crumbs ; pepper 
and salt them ; fry a beautiful brown, and serve in white sauce. 

calf's heabt. 
Stu£&d and roasted precisely as beef heart. 

calf's kidney 

May be dressed as mutton or beef kidney, or mince it with 
some of the &t; add cayenne, white pepper and salt; cover 



G8 PRACTIOAL COOKIERr. 

it with bread crumbs and with yolk of egg ; make it up into 
balls and fry in boiling fresh butter ; drain them upon a sieve, 
and serve them upon fried parsley. 

calf's uvkh. 

Lay the liver in vinegar for twelve hours, it will render it 
(irm ; dip it in cold spring water and wipe it dry ; cut it in even 
slices ; sprinkle sweet herbs, crumbled finely, over it ; add 
pepper and salt, and dredge with flour ; fry in boilmg lard or 
butter — ^the last is preferable ; remove the liver when fried a 
nice brown ; pour away a portion of the fat, and pour in a 
cup full of water with a lump of butter well rolled in flour, in 
which a spoon full of vinegar and cayenne or lemon juice has 
been stirred ; boil it up, keeping it stirred all the while, and 
serve the liver up in it ; thin slioes of hot fried bacon should 
be sent to table with it. 



CHAPTER V. 

MUTTON. 

This is a delicate and a &yorite meat ; it is susceptible of 
many modes of cooking, and should always be served very 
hot, and with very hot plates, except, of course, in cases where 
it may be sent to table as a cold dish. It is a meat which re- 
quires care in the cooking, which it will amply repay. The 
roasting parts are the better for hanging some time, especially 
the haunch or saddle ; but not for boiling, as the color is apt 
to be injured. The leg and the loin are the superior joints. 
Steaks are cut from the leg ; chops and cutlets from the shoul- 
der, breast, loin, and neck. The leg, loin, scrag, or breast, may 
be stewed. 

If the leg of mutton is roasted, serve with its own gravy, 
with a spoon full of currant jelly or red wine, made hot, in it. 
If boiled, serve drawn butter, parsley, or mock caper sauce, 
with tomatoes stewed, and plain boiled potatoes. 

HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 

The haunch should be hung as long as possible without be- 
ing tainted; it should be washed with vinegar every day 
while hanging, and thoroughly dried after each washing ; if the 
weather be muggy, rubbing with sugar will prevent its turn- 
ing sour ; if warm weather, pepper and ground ginger rubbed 
over it will keep off the flies. 

When ready for roasting, paper the fat ; commence roast- 
ing some distance from the fire ; baste with milk and water 
first, and then when the &t begins dripping, change the dish, 



70 PRACTICAL COOnERT. 

and baste with its own dripping ; half an hour previous to its 
being done, remove the paper from the &t ; place it closer to 
the fire ; baste well, and servo with currant jelly. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

This joint, like the haunch, gains much of its flavor from 
hanging for some time ; the skin should be taken of]^ but skew- 
ered on s^ain, until within rather more than a quarter of an 
hour of its being done ; then let it be taken off; dredge the 
saddle with flour ; baste well. The kidneys may be removed 
or remain, at pleasure ; but the fat which is found within the 
saddle should be removed previous to cooking. 

LEO OF MUTTON ROASTED. 

Like the haunch and saddle, it should be hung before cook- 
ing ; should be slowly roasted, and served with onion sauce or 
currant jelly. 

ROAST LEO OF MUTTON BONED AND STUFFED. 

The principal skill required in accomplishing this dish is the 
boning; this must be done with a very sharp knife; com- 
mence on the under side of the joint, passing the knife under 
the skin until exactly over the bone ; then cut down to it ; 
pass the knife round close to the bone, right up to the socket ; 
then remove the large bone of the thickest end of the leg, see- 
ing the meat is clear of the bone ; you may then draw out the 
remaining bones easily. Put in the orifice a highly seasoned 
force meat ; fasten the knuckle end tightly over ; replace the 
bone at the base of the joint, and sew it in. It must be well 
basted, and should be sent to table with a good gravy. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Must be roasted, and sent to table with skin a nice brown ; 
it is served with onion sauce or currant jelly. This is the plain- 
est iaahion ; and, for small &miliea, the best 



MTTTION. 71 

LOIN 07 MUTTON 8TEWBD. . 

Remove the skin ; bone it, and then roll it ; put it in a stew- 
pan, with a pint and a half of water, a piece of butter, sweet 
herbs, and an onion or two ; when it has stewed nearly four 
hours, strun the gravy ; add two spoons full of red wine ; 
serve very hot, with jelly sauce. 

BRBAST 07 MUTTON. 

May be stewed in gravy until tender ; bone it ; score it ; 
season well with cayenne, black pepper, and salt ; boil it, and 
while cooking, skim the &t from the gravy in which it has 
been stewed ; slice a few gherkins, and add, with a dessertspoon 
full of mushroom ketchup ; boil it, and pour over the mutton 
when dished. 

ALAMODX MUTTON A LEO. 

First make a stuffing of bread and pork, chopped fine, sea- 
soned high with pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, and pounded 
cloves. After the meat is stuffed, place some skewers on the 
bottom of the pot ; lay the mutton on them, as they will keep 
it from burning. Put in two onions, two turnips, two carrots, 
sliced, and a little celery ; sprinkle a large quantity of salt on 
the whole, with a little powdered clove, a little mace, and a 
little pepper. Put enough water in the pot to cook it slowly 
four or five hours, without burning. When done, take out the 
meat, and put it in a covered dish by the fire. Skim off all 
the fat from the liquor. Then take a tumbler of port wine, 
thicken it with flour ; put it into the liquor with a little currant 
jelly. When it boils, it is ready to dish. Pour the gravy 
over the meat. 

MUTTON STEAKS. 

The Steaks are cut from the thick or fillet end of a leg oi 
mutton, and dressed as rump steaks. 



7!^ PRACTIOAL COOKXRT. 

MUTTON CHOPS BBOILXD. 

Cut from the best end of the loin ; trim them nicely, re- 
moving fat or skin, leaving only enough of the former to make 
them palatable ; let the fire be very clear before placing the 
chops on the gridiron ; turn them frequently, taking care that 
the fork is not put into the lean part of the chop ; season them 
wjth pepper and salt ; spread a little fresh butter over each 
chop, when nearly done, and send them to table upon very hot 
plates. 

MUTTON CHOPS FRIED. 

The &t in which the chops are to be fried should be boiling 
when the chops are put into it. They should be pared of fat, 
and well trimmed, before cooking ; they should be turned fre- 
quently, and when nicely browned, they will be done ; of 
course, if they are very thick, judgment must be exercised re- 
specting the length of time they will occupy in cooking. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Loin chops make the best cutlets. Take off the vertebrae or 
thickest end of each bone, and about an inch off the top of the 
bone ; put the chops into a stewpan in which has been previ- 
ously melted a little butter, seasoned with salt ; stew for a 
short time, but not until they are brown, as that appearance is 
accomplished in another manner. CSiop some parsley very 
fine ; add .a little thyme ; mix it with sufHcient yolk of e^ to 
coat the chops, which will have been suffered to cool before 
this addition to them ; then powder them with bread crumbs, 
over which a pinch of cayenne pepper has been sprinkled ; broil 
them upon a gridiron, over a dear but not a brisk fire ; when 
they are brown, dish them ; lemon juice may be squeezed over 
them, or the dish in which they are served may be garnished 
with thin slices of lemon in halves and quarters. 



MUTTOir. 78 

FILLST OF MUnOV. 

Choose a very large leg; cut from four to five' inches in 
tliicknesa, from the large end of the leg ; take out the bone, 
and in its place put a highly savory force meat; flour, and roast 
it for two hours, and it will be done ; it may be sent to table 
with the same aooompaniments as a fillet of veal, with melted 
butter poured over it, or a rich brown gravy and red currant 
jelly. 

HASH. 

Is made firom former dressed mutton, leg or saddle, cut in 
nice thin shaped pieces, and put into some good brown sauce. 

HASHED MUTTON. 

Cut the cold mutton into slices, as uniform in size as possible ; 
flour them ; pepper and salt them ; put them into a stewpan, 
with some gravy made of an onion stewed with whole pepper 
and toasted bread, in a pint of water, to which a little walnut 
ketchup has been added — this gravy should be stewed two 
hours before using — do not let the hash boil ; when it is done, 
add a little thickening of butter, flour, and water, if required, 
and serve up with slices of toasted bread. 

MUTTOK LIKE VENISON. 

A haundi or leg will be the most applicable. The joint 
should be hung as long as it can be with safety, and dressed 
exactly like a haunch of venison, and served with the same 
sauces ; but to make the taste vaote perfectly resemble that of 
venison, it should, after having been hung to the turn, be 
skinned, and laid in a pan with vinegar and water ; two parts 
of the former to one of the latter, not enough to cover it ; put 
in a &got of herbs, a clove of garlic, a spoon fiill of whole 
pepper, and a couple of onioniB, cut in slices ; let it soak three 
days ; dry it well ; hang it for a day, and roast as yenison. 

D 



74 PRAOTICAL COOKERY. 

It may also be put into a stewpan, with half a pint of gravj, 
and simmer four hours ; serve with venison sauce. 

MUTTON HAMS. 

These are cut, corned, smoked, and eaten, the same as smoked 
beef or venison hams. 

TO DRBSS MUTTON HAMS. 

Soak the ham for five or six hours in cold spring water, un- 
less it has only recently been cured, then one hour will suffice ; 
put it into cold water ; boil gently ; it will be done in two 
hours and a hal£ It is eaten cold. 

MUTTON KIDNEYS BROILED. 

Skin and split without parting asunder; skewer them through 
the outer edge, and keep them flat ; lay the open sides first to 
the fire, which should be clear and brisk ; in four minutes turn 
them ; sprnkle with salt and cayenne, and when done, which 
will be in three minutes aflerward, take them from the fire ; 
put a piece of butter inside them ; squeeze some lemon juice 
over them, and serve as hot as possible. 

sheep's TONGUE — STEWED. 

Put them into cold water, and let them boil ; when they 
are sufficiently tender to remove the skin easily, take them 
out ; split them, and lay them in a stewpan, with enough good 
gravy to cover them. Chop parsley, and mushroom, with a 
little onion, finely ; work a lump of butter with it ; add pepper 
and salt to flavor ; stew them in the gravy until the tongues 
are tender ; lay them in a dish ; strain the gravy, and pour it 
hot over the tongues ; serve. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take two or three pounds of neck of mutton ; cut it into 
«bopt; parv thrM poun^ of potitOM; oul thma into thiok 



MUTTOH. 75 



slices ; pat them into a stewpao, with a quart of water, two or 
three carrots ; turnips or onions may be added ; the last are 
seldom omitted ; salt and pepper the mutton when added to 
the gravy ; let it boil or simmer gently for two hours, and 
serve very hot ; its excellence much depends on the last in- 
structions being fulfilled. 



t 



CHAPTER VL 
LAMB. 

Lamb is usually sold by the butcher in quarters. The fore- 
quarter includes the shoulder, neck and breast ; the hind-quar 
ter, the 1^ and loin. Lamb may be roasted, stewed, hashed, 
fried, boiled, or be made into pie. Lamb may be baked in a 
hot oven nearly to equal a roast 

rORS-QUARTER OF LAMB, R0A8TKD. 

This is the fitvorite, and, indeed, the best joint. Do not put 
it too near the fire, at first ; when it gets heated, baste it well ; 
the fire should be quick, clear, but not fierce ; the usual weight 
of a fore-quarter is between nine and eleven pounds ; it will 
take two hours ; when it is done, separate the shoulder from 
the ribs ; but before it is quite taken off, lay under a large 
lump of butter ; squeeze a lemon, and season with pepper and 
salt ; let it remain long enough to quite melt the butter ; 
then remove the shoulder, and lay it on another disk 

TO R0A8T A LBO OF LAMB. 

The rules laid down for roasting mutton must be scrupu- 
lously observed with respect to lamb ; let it roast gradually, 
and commence a distance from the fire ; a 1^ of five pounds 
will take an hour and a quarter ; one of six pounds, will take 
an hour and a hal£ 



TO BOIL A LBO 07 LAMB. 

Put it in sufficient dear, oold, soft water, to oov«r it ; let it 
remain half an hour ; half a hand full of salt may be thrown 
in ; put it into a thin white doth, whidi has been floured, and 
boil it in enough water to cover it ; a good sized bundle of 
sweet herbs may be thrown into the saucepan ; if six pounds, 
It will be done in an hour and a half; senre with spinadi or 
French beans ; if sent to table cold, lay handsome sprigs of 
parsley about it tastefully ; it may, while hot, be garnished 
with parsley, with thin slices of lemon, laid round the dish. 

8TZWBD LOIir OF LAMB. 

The loin may be stewed whole or in steaks ; in the former, 
the flap being secured by a skewer, is put into a stewpan, with 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and covered down close ; let it 
simmer one hour ; then turn it ; let it rimmer again for an 
hour and a quarter, and then have ready some rich brown 
gravy, hot ; lifl out the meat ; pour the gravy over it^ and 
send it to table with mint sauce, a lettuce, a few radishos, and 
spring onions. 

TO 'STKW A BRBAST OT LAMB. 

Gut it into pieces ; pepper and salt well ; stew in sufficient 
gravy to cover the meat until tender ; then thicken the sauce ; 
pour in a glass of sherry ; serve on a dish of stewed mush- 
rooma 

LAMB 8TBWED WITH FKAB. 

Cut the scrag or breast of lamb in pieces, and put it in a 
stewpan, with water enough to cover it. Cover the stewpan 
dose, and let it simmer or stew for fifteen or twenty minutes ; 
take off the scum ; then add a tablespoon full of salt, and a quart 
of shdled peas ; cover the stewpan, and let them stew for half 
an hour ; work a small tablespoon full of wheat flour with a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and stir it into the stew ; add a 



78 PRACTICAL COOKXRT. 

small teaspoon full of pepper ; let it simmer together for ten 
minutes. Serve with new potatoes, boiled. A blade of mace 
may be added, if liked. 

SWEKTBRSADS FRICASSBD BROWK. 

r 

Cut them in small pieces ; flour, and fly them. When a 
good brown, pour over them a pint of good beef gravy, highlj 
seasoned ; stew gently, until the sweetbreads are tender; add 
a little flour and butter, to thicken ; add mushroom ketchup, 
to flavor ; mushrooms may be substituted, or all may be cooked 
with the sweetbreads. 

LAMB CHOPS. 

Lamb chops and cutJets are cooked in the same manner as 
mutton chops and cutlets, but require more care in the cook- 
ing; they are sent to table with various garnishes, and ar- 
ranged in many forms ; the most simple manner is to garnish 
with crisped parsley. 



CHAPTER VIL 

PORK. 

Pork is like veal — ^indigestible, at least cheraiata consider it 
so though some medical men have asserted to the contrary ; 
it should at least be thoroughly cooked, to place, if possible, its 
digestibility beyond a doubt. In roasting, or in boiling, ample 
time should be allowed for the joint Pork is always salted 
for boiling, and is much liked in this form. When sent to table, 
apple sauce should in every case accompany it. 

Pork is in season from October to April. Be sure that it is 
not measly, before using it. Great attention also should be 
given to it when it is in pickle, for if any part of it be long ex- 
posed to the air, without being turned into, or well and fre- 
quently basted with the brine, it will often become tainted du- 
ring the process of curing it 

Serve with roast pig or.pork, mashed potatoes, boiled onions, 
turnips mashed, pickled beets, mangoes or cucumbers, or dressed 
celery and cranberry sauce, stewed apples, or currant jelly. 

ROAST PIO— 6BRVBD WHOLR. 

When well dressed and washed, prepare a stuffing of chop, 
ped bread seasoned well with pepper, salt, sage and butter, 
soaked enough to make it soft. Fill the body and sew it up 
with strong thread. Flour it well all over, and when the oven 
b well heated through, put it on dripping pans, that will catch 
all the gravy. Let it stand in two or three hours, according to 
the size of the pig. Let it be well crisped and, of course, hand- 
somely brown. When you take it from the oven, mash two 
spoons full of flour, with butter enough to mix well, and dip on 



80 PRACTICAL COOKKKT. 

the dripping a little at a time at first, until melted, then poor it 
on, stirring it until thickened, season it with salt, and add to ii 
the hrains bruised, fine, and then send it to the table. The head 
must be cut ofT and laid upon the platter. 

ROAST PIO. 

Soak in milk some light bread, boil some sage and ooioos in 
plenty c^ water, stnun it off and chop it all very fine, press the 
milk from the bread, and then mix the sage and onion with 
pepper and salt ; in the bread put the yolk of an egg to bind it 
a little, put this in the inside of the pig, rub the pig over with 
milk and butter, paper it, roast it a beautiful brown, cut off 
the head before it is drawn fr<Mn the spit, and likewise cut it 
down the back and then you will not break the skin ; take out 
the spit, cut off the ears from the head, and crack the bone and 
take out the brains, put them in a stewpan with all the inside 
stuffing and a little brown sauce ; dish the pig, the backs out- 
side, and put the sauce in the middle, and some in a boat, the 
ears at each end. 

A LBO OF PORK ROA0TBI>. 

Ihe pork should be young and dairy-fed ; score the skin vrith 
a sharp penknife ; a little fresh butter is sometimes rubbed over 
the skin to make it brown and crisp without blisterii^. Chop 
some sage, that has been scalded, very fine, add to it an onion 
parboiled, mix hretiA crumbs and a snuill portion of apple 
diopped very fine, mix all together, season with pepper 
and salt, make an incision, separating the skin from the fiit in 
the under and fillet end of the leg, and place the stuffing there ; 
the time of roaatii^ will depend upon the size of the leg ; serve 
up with apple sauce. 

LOIN or PORK 

Should, like the 1^, be scored before roasting, and well 
jointed to make the chops separate easily, and then roast as a 



81 

loin of muttcm ; or it may be put into enough water to oorer 
it, simmer until it is nearly done, then take it oat, take the skin 
off, coat it well with yolk of egg and bread crumbs ; roast for 
about a quarter of an hour, until it is thoroughly done. 

A FILLXT OF POBK TO BXSSMBLl YSAL. 

The fillet should be cut from the leg of a very lai^ pig ; re- 
move the bone and fill the orifice with veal stuffing, roast it 
until it is more than half done, then take some thin broth and 
put it in the stewpan; put in the porl^ stew until it is thoroughly 
done, then thicken the gravy and send it to table with fbroe 
meat balls and lemon cut in 



OBISIIH or FOBS. 

Put it into a saucepan with enough water to oovw it ; when 
it has boiled take it up, butter, and flour it, and put it befin^ 
the fire to brown ; ten minutes will suffice. 

SPARK BIB or PORK — ^ROAST. 

Tou must joint this down the middle, and sprinkle it with 
a little fine sage and salt ; baste and flour it well ; i^ple sauoe 
in a hoaL 

OUIAB or PORK. 

This joint is usually sent to table with turkey, it should be 
salted for about sixty or seventy hours previous to cooking, 
and then be roasted ; a chine boiled is as often sent to table as 
roasted, bat the latter is usually preSsmdu 

POBK STBAX. 

This lAiould be broiled the same as bee^ except it requires to 

be done slower and much longer. If there is too much fire, it 

will blaze. Cut in around the bone that there shall be nothing 

that has a raw appearance. Season with butter, salt and pep- 
D* 6 



82 PBAOnOJlL COOSXBT. 

per. They maj be oooked in cadets like veal, with a little 
powdered sage and hard arumbs, or flour, fried in butter. 

PORK CUTLBT8. 

Cut them from a small, delicate loin of pork, bone, and trim 
them neatly, fry them a light brown, put into a small stew- 
pan a little vinegar, and onion chopped very fine, two table- 
spoons full of tomato sauce^ and sufficient brown gravy to make 
it tasty ; stew the cutlets in the sauce five minutes, and send 
them to table dished handsomely ; if the cutlets are broiled 
they may be dipped in yolk of e^ and bread crumbs, and 
broiled over a dear fire, and served with tomato sauce. 

PORK BAU8A0B8 — ^FINB. 

Ebve two-thirds lean and one-thurd fiit pork ; chop very fine. 
Season with nine teaspoons fiiU of pepper, nine of salt, three 
of powdered sage, to every pound of meat Warm the meat, 
that you can mix it well with your hands; do up a part in 
small patties, with a littie flour mixed with them, and the rest 
pack in jars. When used, do it up in small cakes and flour on 
the outside, and fry in butter or alone. Hiey should not be 
covered, or they will fidl to pieces. A little cinnamon to a 
part of them will be a pleasant addition. They should be kept 
where it is cool but not damp. Hiey are very nice for 
break&st 

BDCPLB SAUBAOSS. 

Take tihree pounds of fi'esh pork, &t and lean together, with* 
out skin, or gristle, chop it fine as possible, season it withatear 
spoon fiiU of black and cayenne pepper mixed, three ci salt, 
three or four spoons fiill of sage ; mix it well together ; have 
the skins very nicely cleaned, and fill them, or lay the meat 
down in a pot Beef makes very good oauaages. 



PORK. 8S 

FORK 6AUSAOS8 ^EVGLISH. 

Take of the fat of pork one pound, that of the loin of a large 
richly fed pig, or the inward fkt of a small one. Chop it finely 
with half a pound of lean pork ; add to it four or five sage 
leaves finely chopped, some lemon thyme in a small quantity, 
and three dessertspoons full of crumb of bread powdered ; be 
careful not to put too much of the latter, as it tends to turn the 
sausages sour if kept. Amalgamate these ingredients well, 
dust on grated nutmeg, mace, and cloves in powder, and finish 
with black pepper and salt, being sure to season well ; the meat 
may then be put into the skins, or may be put in jars covered 
down fi!X)m the air, to be used for rolls or stuffing, or any re- 
quired purpose. 

All skin must be pared firom the fiit before chopping, and 
every sinew removed from the lean pork, as well as any bone^ 
or anything which may impair the taste when eaten. 

BOtrss. 

Boil it until it is tender and will slip off the bone. If de- 
signed to pickle and keep on hand, throw it into cold water 
and take out the bones ; then pack it into a jar and boil with 
the jelly liquor an equal quantity of vinegar, salt enough to sea- 
son; doves, cinnamon, pepper enough to make it pleasant, 
and pour it on the souse scalding hot, and when wanted for use, 
warm it in the liquor, or make a batter and dip each piece in, 
and fry in hot butter. This way is usually preferred, and u at 
nice as tripe. 

fio'b bsad baked. 

Let it be divided and thoroughly cleaned; take out the 
brains, trim the snout and ears, bake it an hour and a hal( 
wash the brains thoroughly, blanch them, beat them up with 
an egg, P^ppv and salt, and tome finely chopped or poundiad 



%i PRAOnOAL OOOKXBT. 

sage, and a small piece of butter, fry them or brovn Uiem be- 
fore the lire ; serve with the head. 

PIOS^ FEBT BTBWED. 

Clean, split, and boil tender, pat them into a stewpan with 
enough gravy to cover them, an onion sliced, a few sage leaves^ 
whole black pepper, allspice, and salt ;*stew forty minutes ; strain 
off the gravy, thicken with flour and butter, add two spoons full 
of vinegar or one dessertspoon full of lemon pickle ; serve it up 
with the feet 

BAM RA8HEB8, OB 8U0B8 

May be toasted, broiled, or fried. May be served with 
spinach and poached eggs, boiled green peas. Stewed with 
green peas, or cut in thin slices, divided in four pieces^ each 
piece rolled and fastened with a skewer, roasted, and served 
with peas. They should in all cases be cut an even thickness^ 
and cooked without injuring the color. Bacon may be dressed 
in the same variety. 

BOILED HAM. 

Hams, if very dirty, should be soaked about twelve honra^ 
then wrapped in a clean doth, and laid upon stone flags for two 
days, the doth being kept moistened with dean sofl; water ; this 
will render it tender when cooked ; let it be thoroughly scraped 
and deaned, and placed in the copper, which in small families 
will be found the most convenient mode of cooking it ; they 
should be put in suflident water to cover them, which water, 
when the ham is cooked, will be found of the greatest service 
in making stock for soups ; the time it will require to boil will 
depend upon the weight of the bam — a small one three hours 
and a half, which may progress according to the weight to six 
hours; when it is done remove the skin, if possible, without break- 
ing it — it prevents the ham when cold becoming dry ; spread 
^ar the ham bread raspings. 



?OBK. 85 

TO BAXB A HAM. 

Put the ham in soak previous to dressing it ; if an old one, 
two hours will be required, but if not very old, an hour will 
suffice. Wipe it very dry, and cover it with a paste about an 
inch in thickness. The edges being first mc»stened must be 
drawn together, and made to adhere, or the gravy will escape. 
Bake it in a regular, well-heated oven ; it will take from three 
to six hours, according to its weight ; when done remove the 
paste, and then the skin. This must be done while the bam is 
hot If well baked and not too salt, it will prove of finer flavor 
than if boUed. 

HAM AND XG08 FRIXD. 

The slioes of ham should first be boiled a trifle. Put a bit 
of lard in the fryingpan. After the slices have been dipped in 
wheat flour or roUed crackers, plaoe them in the hot fat 
Sprinkle pepper. When both sides are finely browned, dish 
it, with sufiicient gravy. Put a bit of lard into the pan. When 
hot, slip the eggs into the fat, avoiding to break the yolk. 
Cook slowly, and separate each ^g with a knife. When done, 
plaoe them in a chain around the meat. Spinach boiled and 
pressed firee from water and chopped small, may be put on the 
eenter of a steak dish, lay the fried ham on it, pour the gravy 
over, place the fried eggs around it. Vinegar may be eaten 
with the qoinach. 

TO TRY OtTT LARD. 

Take the leaf &t from the inside of a bacon hog, out it small, 
and put it in an iron kettle, which must be perfectly free from 
any musty taste ; set it over a steady, moderate fire, until no- 
thing but scraps remain of the meat ; the heat must be kept 
up, but gentle, that it may not bum the lard ; spread a coarse 
doth in a wire sieve, and strain the liquid into tin basins, which 



86 PRACTICAL OOOKKET. 

"Will hold two or three quarts ; squeeze out all the &t from the 
scraps. 

When the lard in the pans is cold, press a piece of new 
muslin close upon it, trim it off at the edge of the pan, and 
keep it in a cold place. Or it may be kept in wooden kegs 
with close covers. 

Lard made with one>third as much beef suet as fiit, is sup 
posed, by many persons, to keep better; it is better, made in 
this way, for cooking. 

TO MBLT LARD. 

Take the inner &t of a newly killed pig and strip off the skis 
completely and carefully, slice it and put it into a jar, and set 
the jar in a pan of boiling water ; let it melt, and when per- 
fectly fluid pour it into dry, dean jars, and cover them closely ; 
it may be kept some time in a dry place, and when used may 
be mixed with butter for pastry, for frying fish, and many othor 
purposes in cooking. 

HEAD CHEBSX. 

Thoroughly clean the hog's head, ^lit it in two, take out the 
eyes and brains, cut off the nose and ears, and pour scalding 
water over the latter and the head, and scrape them dean. 
Then rinse all in cold water, and put it into water to cover it ; 
let it boil gently, taking off the scum as it rises ; when boiled 
so that the bones leave the meat readily, take it from the wa- 
ter into a large wooden bowl or tray ; take from it every par- 
tide of bone ; chop the meat small and season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and if liked, a little chopped sage or thyme; 
spread a cloth in a cullender or sieve ; set it in a deep dish, 
and put the meat in, then fold the cloth doselyover it, lay 
a plate on, which may press equally the whole sur&ce. L^ 
the weight be more or less heavy, according as you may 



PORK. 87 

wish the cheese to be &t or lean ; a heavy weight bj pres- 
sing out the &t, will of course leave the cheese lean. 

When cold, scrape off whatever fat may be found on the 
outside of the cloth, and keep the cheese in the doth in a 
oool place, to be eatai sliced thin, with or without mus> 
tard and vinegar, or catsup. 



CHAPTER VIIL 
POULTRY. 

Alwats have good wd fat poultry where possible ; in th« 
country you may command JL The best sort for the table 
is the r>orking breed ; they are five toed, have white \ega, 
and feathers of a grayish white color. 

About three weeks before you want to use them, six or 
twelve fowls, according to your consumption, should be put 
into the coop, and as you kill one or more, replace them, 
to keep up the stock ; for the first week feed them alter- 
nate days with boiled rice and soaked bread and milk; the 
remainder of the time mix barley meal with the skimmings 
of your stockpot and a spoon full of moist sugar; the win- 
dows of your poultry house must be darkened. 



FOULTST. 89 

Fowls should be carefully drawn^ so that the gall blad- 
der is uninjured, and should only be done through the vent. 

Boast with a brisk and clear fire. A capon will take five- 
and-thlrty nnnutes, smaller fowls a less time in proportion. 
A turkey of fourteen pounds will take two hours ; the time 
will increase or decrease with the weight. The same rule 
applies to geese; a large one will take an hour and a hal^ 
diickens take half an hour, pigeons ten minutes less. It must 
be understood that the adherence to the time will depend 
on the state of the fire. 

In choosing poultry, the best way to determine whether 
it ia young, is to try the skin under the leg or wing; if it 
is easily broken, it is young ; or, turn the wing backwards ; 
if the joint yields readily it is tender ; a fat fowl is best for 
any purpose. 

ROAST TCRXST. 

Remove the vent with the knife ; cut a slit from the end of 
the breast bone, to take out the entraila, taking care not to 
break the gall on the liver, or it must be thrown away. Take 
off the feet, and bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw out 
the string from the leg ; cut a sHt in the back of the neck ; 
pass your finger around in front, and draw out the crop ; cut 
the neck short, leaving skin enough to fiisten over against the 
back ; wash the inside with cold water ; wipe it dry ; mix a 
tablespoon full of salt with a teaspoon full of pepper ; rub the 
inside well with this, and also the place of the crop. 

Prepare the stuffing with bread, salt, pepper, butter, cinna* 
mon, or nutmeg, or a little lemon peel, or parsley and thyme ; 
chop, and mix all well together, with one or two eggs, beaten 
well. With this dressing stuff the body and the breast, and 
sew them with a strong thread. Also fill the crop ; then draw 
the skin of the neck over the back, and &sten it with a skewer ; 
turn the legs dose to the body, and run skewers through each 



90 PRAOnOAL COOiaRT. 

hip joints and tie the ends of the legs together. Roast the tur^ 
key to a fine brown ; baste it frequently with the liquor in the 
pan. It will be done in one hour and a half; or, if old and 
very lai^e, two hours or more. Make a gravy of drawn but- 
ter and the dripping. Another sauoe is made of half a pint of 
oysters, boiled in a pan, thickened with a lump of butter rolled 
jfi flour. Only let it boil once. Serve this by itself in con- 
nection with other gravy, for every person does not like oyster 
sauce. 

Take up the roast ; draw the skewers out, and take out the 
threads ; lay it on a dish, on its back* and serve with mashed 
potatoes, turnips mashed, dressed celery, pickles, and stewed 
apples ; cold boiled ham or tongue, for a large dinner. 

Mince pies, for Qiristmas; pumpkin and apple pies for 
Thanksgiving. 

BOILBD TURKSr. 

The turkey should be prepared as for roasting, with the 
wings twisted over against the back. Stuff the turkey as fol- 
lows : Pour boiling water or milk on wheat bread or mashed 
potatoes ; season high with pepper and salt, and^ if liked, a tea- 
spoon full of fine sage or thyme, or a bunch of finely chopped 
parsley ; fill the crop, and turn the skin of the neck over 
against the back, and fasten it with a small skewer. 

Dredge flour over the outside ; tie it in a cloth, and put it in a 
pot of hot (not boiling) water ; cover the pot, and let it boil 
gently about fifteen minutes to the pound ; take off the scum ; 
serve with drawn butter, celery, or parsley sauce. 

Mashed potatoes, turnips or squash, celery, pickles, and 
■tewed apples, or cranberry jam, and cold ham or tongue, are 
served with boiled turkey. 

Oyster stufiing is made as above directed, adding a pint of 
fine oysters to it Serve with oyster sauce, poured over, or in a 
tuxeen. 



POULTBT. 91 

ROAST AND BAXKD 0008X. 

Prepare the goose for roasting the same as turkej. Cut 
wheat bread in slices ; pour hot water over ; then add a tea- 
spoon full of salt, and the same of ground pepper, and a quarter 
of a pound of sweet butter, with a tablespoon full of finelj pow- 
dered sage or thyme, if liked. Fill the body ; then sew up the 
slit; tie the ends of the legs tc^ether^ or cut a place and put 
them in the body ; pass a skewer through the hips ; put the 
heart and liver between the wings and the body, and &sten close 
to it, with a skewer ; split it ; put a pint of water in the pan, 
with a teaspoon full of salt, to baste with ; roast by a bright, 
steady, and clear fire, and baste fireely, and turn it, a(ler it has 
begun to roast When nearly done, add a quarter of a pound 
of butter to the pan, and baste with it ; dredge a little flour over 
it ; turn it, that every part may be well done ; allow fifteen 
minutes for each pound of meat. 

If the gravy is very fat, take some of it off; put the pan 
over the fire ; let it become hot ; then stir into it a thin batter, 
made of a teaspoon full of wheat flour and cold water ; stir it 
until it is brown and smooth; when done, pour the gravy- 
through a gravy strainer, into a tureen. 

A goose may be equally well dressed, in a hot oven or stove, 
with the same preparation. It should be placed upon its back, 
in the pan, upon a trivet of muffin rings, with water in the pan, 
and bits of butter over the body. Baste it freely till done. 

Plain boiled or mashed potatoes, mashed yellow turnips, or 
winter squash, apples stewed without sugar, or cranberry jam, 
boiled onions, pickles, and dressed celery. 

Dessert Apple, pumpkin, custard, or mince pies. 

A young goose may be cut up and made ipto a pot or 
other pie. 



92 PRACTICAL COOKBRT. 

TO ROAST DUCKS. 

Ducks should be well plucked, without tearing the skin, all 
the plugs being removed. Some cooks go so far as to skin the 
duck, holding it a minute by the feet in scalding water, that the 
skin may peel easier ; clean the insides thoroughly with a little 
warm water, and stuff them with the same stuffing as for goose, 
using, perhapH, a little more bread, for the sake of mildness ; 
roast them before a brisk fire, but not too close ; baste very 
frequently ; they will take from half an hour to an hour ; mucJi 
depends on the age and size ; when the breast plumps they will 
be just done ; serve them with a rich brown gravy. 

, TO BOIL DUCKS. 

Clean and pluck them; let the skin be preseryed from rents, 
while plucking ; salt them for about thirty hours, previous to 
cooking ; flour a clean white doth, and boil them in it ; a mod- 
erate sized duck will take about an hour's boiling ; make a rich 
onion sauce with milk, and send it to table with the duck. 
When the duck is boiled fresh, it may be stuffed as for roasting, 
and served with the same description of gravy. 

8TSWBD DUCK. 

The ducks should be cut into joints, and laid in a stewpan, 
with a pint of good gravy ; let it come to a boil, and, as the 
scum rises, remove it ; season with salt and cayenne ; let them 
stew gently three-quarters of an hour ; mix smoothly two tea* 
spoons full of fine ground rice, with a glass of port ; stir it into 
the gravy ; let it have seven or eight minutes to amalgamate 
with the gravy ; dish, and send to table very hot 

OAHYASS BACK DUCKS. 

Canvass back ducks are served in the same manner as wild 
ducks, without the onion in the basting ; as there is no 
greeable taste to destroy, thai is not necessary. 



FOULTBT. 9S 

OanyasB back ducks maj be aetred the same as goose or 
tame duck. Boast them aocerdiiig to their size. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Truss the fowl, and stuff it, seasoning to suit the taste. A 
half pint of oysters may be added to the stuffing. Dredge well 
with wheat flour; then put it into a potof hot water; cover it 
dose, and let it boil gently, according to its weight and age; an 
old fowl may boil twice as long as a young one ; allow fifteen 
minutes to the pound for a full grown fowl ; take off the scum 
as it rises. Serve with plain boiled or mashed potatoes, and 
drawn butter, parsley, or oyster sauce. 

Pickles and dressed celery are served with boiled fowls; also 
mashed turnips, boiled asparagus^ and cauliflower. Boiled ham 
or tongue, or cOTned bee^ is generally served with boiled fowk. 

BOAST FOWL. 

Clean the fowl thoroughly ; rolMit it twenty minutes, unless a 
very fine one, and then it will take three-quarters of an hour ; 
dredge with a little flour, and baste well ; serve with bread 
sance, or parsley and butter ; egg sauce is sometimes sent to 
table with it. 

If a small lump of salt butter, well covered with black pepper, 
is placed within the fowl previous to roasting, it will be found 
to improve it, by removing the dryness which is met with in 
the back or side bones, or it may be stufled. 

Mashed potatoes, tomatoes stewed, mashed turnips, (ruta- 
baga or yellow are best,) dressed celery, or lettuce, pickles^ and 
mangoes, are served with roast fowls. Also currant jelly, 
stewed apples^ or cranberry jam. 

A fowl may be roasted in a hot stove oven, so as to be nearly 
as fine as before the fire; baste fi!^y and often, and finish as di* 
rected for roasting. 



M PBAOnOAL OOOKUIT. 

TO I1UCA0KB A FOWL. 

Cut it in pieces, jointing it well, and boil it tender, with a 
slioe or two of pork, cut fine. When nearly done, add half a 
teai^>oon full of pepper and salt^ to season it When tende-i, 
turn off the water, and add half a pound of butter, or nearly 
that, and let it fry a while. Tlien take out the chicken, and 
stir in two or three spoons full of flour, previously dissolved 
in cold water, and add the water from the chicken. Let it 
boll, and pour it upon the diicken on the platter. This 
makes a superior dish, and needs no vegetables but mashed 
potatoes. 

FOWL BBOILXD. 

Separate the back of the fowl, and lay the two sides open ; 
skewer the wings as for roasting ; seascm well with pepper and 
salt, and broil ; send to table with the inside of the fowl to the 
surface of the dish ; serve mushroom sauce ; it is an admira> 
ble break&st dish when a journey is to be performed. 

TO GRILL COLD FOWLS. 

Trim the joints that remain, and having dipped them in clar- 
ified butter, spread over them a coating of finely powdered 
bread crumbs, mixed with very finely ground nutmeg, mace, 
cayenne, and salt in small quantities ; lay them upon a dean 
gridiron over a dear fire ; broQ gentiy. 

OHICKSK POT FIB. 

Boil the duckens tender, or nearly so ; having them cut in 
pieces. Make a rich crust, adding a little saleratus, and an egg 
or two to make it light and puC Lay it around the sides of 
the pan, and then lay in the chickens ; between each layer 
sprinkle in flour, pepper, salt and butter, with a thin dice of 
paste here and there. Then add the water in which they were 



POULTET. 95 

boiled, and cover them. Thej should be baked an hour or an 
hour and a hal^ according to the size of the pie. 

CHICKENS FULLED. 

a 

Remove the skin carefully from a cold chicken, then pull 
the flesh from the bones, preserving it as whole as you can. 
Flour them well ; fry them a nice brown in fresh butter ; draw 
them, and stew in a good gravy well seasoned ; thicken a short 
time before serving with flour and butter, and add the juice of 
half a lemon. 

CHICKEN AND TURKEY PATTIES. 

Mince some cold chicken or turkey ; put to it some of the 
gravy, or if you have none, line your pie dish with a paste ; 
put in your minced meat ; work some butter and flour to- 
gether,* and lay bits all over the meat ; then nearly fill the dish 
with water ; season with pepper and salt, and if liked, a little 
ground mace ; cover with a nice paste, and cook until the crust 
b done. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take two large cold fowls, either boiled or roasted ; cut the 
meat from the bones, in pieces not exceeding an inch in size. 
Cut the white part of two large heads or four small ones of 
fine celery into pieces not more than an inch long ; mix the 
ct^icken and celery well together ; cover them and set them 
away. 

With a knife mash the yolks of nine hard boiled eggs ; add 
a gill of dry mustard, and mix them well together, with just 
sufficient water to moke a smooth paste. Much depends on the 
thoroughness of this mixing ; and great care must be taken 
not to add too much water. 

Place the mixture in a good sized, shallow dish ; add a tea- 
spoon full of cayenne pepper and one of salt^ and pour in a 



90 PRAOnCAL OOOKERT. 

pint of sweet oil, a little at a time, mixing it thoroughly in with 
a wooden fork. If the oil is added in too large quantities, 
it will not mix so readily, and it will be more difficult to 
make the dressing smooth. 

When the mixture is perfectly smooth, add a gill of vin> 
^ar in the same way as the oil, stirring it in with the fork. 

When the dressing is thoroughly mixed, and smooth, and 
even, cover it, and set it away in a cool place. 

Ten minutes before the salad is to be eaten, take a head 
of lettuce, break off the leaves from the. stalk ; add them 
to the chicken and celery; see that the dressing has kept 
thoroughly mixed, and then pour it over the whole, mixing 
them well together with a wooden fork and spoon. 



OAMB. ETO. 

TEHieON TH« HAUnCH. 

"Tub observed of all observers," when venison Epicureans 
sit at table ; it ia a joint, if properly liept, properly cooked, 
and served hot, whicb must prove delidous to the palate. It 
aliould always hang a considerable length of time ; the deli- 
cacy of its flavor is obtained by hanging, only ; if it be oooked 
while fresh, it will not equal in any respect a haunch of mutton. 

The haunch of venison, when about to be roasted, ihould 
be washed in warm milk and water, and dried with a dean 
cloth ; if it has hung very long and the skin amelb musty, it 
will be the safest plan to remove the skin and wrap the whole 
of the haunch in paper, well greased with fresh butter j during 
E 7 



98 r&AOTICAL OOOKSRT. 

the time it is at the fire, do not be afraid of basting it too much ; 
it will require all the cook is likely to give it ; if it be a buck 
haunch, and large, it will take nearly four hours within five or 
ten minutes ; if comparatively small, three hours and a half 
will suffice ; if a doe haunch, three hours and a quarter will be 
enough. Remove the paper when it is done enough, dredge 
quickly with flour to produce a froth. Dish it, and serve ; let 
there be nothing with it in the dish; but the gravy should be sent 
to table in its proper dish, accompanied by currant jelly. The 
haunch is not unfrequently roasted in a paste, which in its turn 
is enclosed in paper, removed when the joint is nearly cooked. 
The above is the simplest, and not the least palatable mode 
of sending it to table. 

YXKISOK BTBAKB. 

Cut them moderately thick, and place on a gridiron over a 
slow fire. When done on both sides, remove them to the plate, 
and on both sides of each sprinkle salt, pepper, powdered 
cloves, butter, and currant jelly, and pile them as compactly as 
possible. This keeps them warm, and furnishes a rich gravy. 

TO HASH VENISON. 

Carve your venison into slices; let them be thin, and put 
them in a stewpan with two small glasses of port wine ; add 
a spoon full of browning, one of ketchup, and an onion stuck 
with cloves ; let it boil, then put in your venison ; make it 
thoroughly hot through. Lay slices of toast, in various shapes, 
m a soup dish; pour the hash upon it, and serve with currant 
jelly. 

A SHOULDER OF VENISON — STEWED. 

If you should have a very lean shoulder, stew it in prefer- 
ence to roasting ; bone it, cover it with slices of mutton fat, 
vUob lometimM are Qrtt steeped in port to give a rioher f)a- 



BAMEy no. 90 

▼or ; roll it up, and bind it tightly. Lay it in a fltewpan with 
a quantity of beef gravy, and the bonee you have taken from 
the venison ; add two glasses of port, a dessertspoon full of 
whole pepper, and the same quantity of allspice. Cover down 
closely, and simmer until the venison is tender ; take it out 
and remove the hi ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, 
and straui It over the meat 

KBCK AND SHOULDER 07 VSNISON. 

These joints, or as together they may be termed the haunch 
joint, may be dressed exactly like the haunch, covered with a 
thin paste, and greased paper over that ; it will take two hours 
and a hal^ or if very large, three hours ; it should be served 
up with venison sauce. 

FHBABANT8. 

Pheasants are rarely stuffed ; it is more customary to send 
them to table accompanied by force meat in the dish ; in many 
cases with the simple gravy only ; the real Epicurean in game 
prefers the flavor of the bird uncontaminated by any accesso- 
ries, save those which just assist to remove the dryness com- 
mon to most game. Pheasants are sometimes larded ; bat as 
the flavor is entirely disguised by the taste of the bacon, in- 
corporated Mrith the flesh of the fowl, unless it- is done more 
fi>r appearance than palate, we would not advise it 

In dressing the pheasant, it should be drawn and cleaned as 
other game, and trussed ; should be roasted before a clear, not 
a fierce fire, and will take forty minutes ; it must not be done 
too much, but must not, on any account, be sent to table 
underdone. 

PARTRIDGUI 

Are cooked as pheasants ; they should not be stufl^d ; grate 
bread crumbs into a shallow dish ; pUu)e them before the fire 



100 P&AOnOAL OOOKXBT. 

to brown, shaking them occasionallj, and send them to table 
with the birds. 

PARTRIDOB ^BROILED. 

Let the partridge hang until longer would make it ofiensive ; 
split it, and take a soft^ dean cloth and remove all the moisture 
inside and out ; lay it upon a gridiron over a very clear fire ; 
spread a little salt and cayenne over it When it is done, which 
will be in twenty minutes, rub a little butter over it, and send 
it to table with mushroom sauce. 

HARES. 

A hare is nothing if not well hung and well cooked ; a hare 
must be hung very long indeed, to be hung too long. It is 
better for not being paunched for a few days, unless the weather 
is warm and muggy ; in no case is it advisable to paunch it 
when first killed. Keep the inside wiped dry. and well pep- 
pered. If the hare is very old, soak it a couple of hours in 
water and vinegar ; then wash it in clean, lukewarm water, to 
take away the acid flavor which might be communicated by 
the vinegar; put in the belly plenty of stuffing, well seasoned ; 
hang the hare some distance fix>m the fire ; it should be roasted 
gradually, because, being of a very dry and hard nature, it re- 
quires being thoroughly done, and yet not dried up. 

It should be sent to table with a good gravy in the dish, or 
melted butter ; in both cases gravy should accompany it when 
served, and also currant jelly. 

The stuffing is composed of the liver, scalded and minced ; 
sweet herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and suet, seasoned to the 
taste. 

BABBITS 

You will roast the same as hares^ and, if required to be 
stuffed, melted butter, chopped parsley, and the liver chopped, 
pepper and salt 



GAMS, BTC. 101 

BOILKD RABBm. 

A rabbit should boil only twenty minutes, and boil slowly ; 
if larger than common, an extra ten minutes may be allowed. 
It should be sent to table smothered in onion sauoe; the water 
should be kept free from scum. It is trussed for boiling di^ 
ferently from what it is for roasting. 

PIGX0N8 BOASTXD. 

Veal stuiiing for pigeons ; it improyes the flavor ; they must 
be fresh and well cleaned; butter and parsley may be served 
with them ; but parsley alone as a stuffing, though frequently 
used, is by no means so palatable as the veal stuffing, or one 
made with veal, the &t of baoon, and the crumb of bread soaked 
in milk, and well seasoned. 

Currant jeJly, or apples stewed without sugar, dressed cel- 
ery, or any other salad, and mashed turnips or squash, may 
be served with roaat birds. 

roa8tb;> PiaxoNS. 

Let your pigeons be picked dean and washed ; then stuff 
the whole inside of the pigeon with fine veal stuffing, if pre- 
ferred ; if not, merely a few bread crumbs and parsley, pep- 
per and salt 

FI0X0N8 BROILXD. 

Split the backs ; season them highly ; lay them over a clear, 
brisk fire ; serve with mushroom sauce. 

PIOXOKS STBWXD. 

After they are well dressed, put a slice of salt pork and a 
little ball of stufiing into the body of each. Flour the pigeons 
well, and lay them close in the bottom of the pot. Just cover 
them with water, and throw in a piece of butter ; let them 
itew an hour and a quarter if young — ^if old, longer. This is 



103 PBAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

preferred to roasting, or any other way they can be prepared. 
They may be oooked in the same way without stuffing. 

ROAST W'OODCOCK, SNIPB, BTO. 

Dress them well. Put a bit of butter, p^per and salt^ 
mixed, into the body, or fill with mashed potatoes, seasoned with 
a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, and moistened with milk; cut off 
the pinions at the first joint; fiisten the legs dose to the ribs, and 
turn the head backward, sticking the bill between the leg and 
the body ; rub over with pepper and salt, and hang on bird 
spits, and set them before a hot firs ; baste with a cup of wa> 
tep and butter ; dredge flour or rolled cracker over, and baste 
continually for the last five minutes ; lay slices of toast under 
to catch the dripping, and serve under the birds. 

SMALL BIRDS BROILBD. 

After being dressed, split them down the back ; spread 
them flat, and broil them very gently over a bright fire of 
coals ; butter them ; salt and pepper, and serve quickly. 

CUTLBTS OF FOWL AND QAMB. 

llie cutlets are, of course, larger fi^m fowls, 6so^ than chick- 
ens, but they may be prepared in the same manner. The cut- 
lets are usually taken from the thighs, the wings boned, and 
fix>m the fleshiest part of the body. 

Tlie Frendi serve them with slices of bread filed a light 
brown, and place each cutlet upon a slice, pouring into the dish, 
but not over the cutlets, a rich, brown gravy. 



CHAPTER X. 
SALT AND FRESH WATEH FISH. 

OBaiRVATIOHS OH CLlANtHO AND PttlSSINQ FISH. 

Bbfork dressing fish of any kind great care should be laheD 
that it is well vauhed and cleansed, but be cautioua not to wash 
it too much, ss the flavor is much dimiaished by too much wa- 
ter. Whrai boiling fish, put a little salt into the water to give 
the fish firmness. Be carerul to let fish be well done, but not 
to let it break. When very fresh, cod and whiting are very 
much improved by keeping a day, and rubbing a little salt 
down the back-bone. Fresh water fish often have a muddy 
amell and taste, which is easily got rid of by soaking iL Af 
ter it has been thoroughly cleansed in strong salt and water, if 
die fi^ ia not too lai^e, scald it in the same, then dry und 
dreMiL 



104 FRACnOAL COOKERT. 

Put the fish in cold water, and let it boil very gently, or the 
outside will break before the inside is wamx. Put all crimped 
fish into boiling water, and when it boils up, some oold water 
should be put into it to check it and keep it simmering. All fish 
should be taken out of the water the instant it is done, or it will be- 
come woolly. To ascertain when it is done, the fish plate may 
be drawn up, and, if done, the meat will leave the bone. To 
keep it hot, and to prevent it losing its color, the fish plate 
should be placed across the fish kettle, and a dean cloth pot 
over the fish. 

Small fish may be nicely fried plain, or done with egg and 
bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the 
fish is to be served should be placed a damask napkin, folded, 
and upon this put the fish, with the roe and liver ; then garnish 
the dish with horseradish, parsely and lemon. 

To broil or fry fish nicely, afler it is well washed it should be 
put in a doth, and when dry, wetted with egg and bread 
crumbs. Then have your pan with plenty of boiling dripping 
or lard, put your fish into it, and let it fry rather quickly, till 
it is of a nice brown and appears done. If it is dotie before 
being nicely browned, it should be taken fix>m the pan, placed 
on a sieve before the fire to drain and brown. Should you 
fry your fish in oil, it obtains a much finer color than when 
done in dripping or lard. Butter makes the fish a bad color 
Garnish with green or firied parsley. 

In broiling fish, be careful that your gridiron is dean ; when 
hot rub it over with suet to hinder the fish from sticking. The 
fish must be floured and seasoned before broiling. It must 
be broiled over a clear fire only, and with great care. 

Fish are boiled, fried, broiled, baked, stewed, in &ct cooked 
in every imaginable &shion. In every kind the greatest atten- 
tion and deanliness must be exercised. A broken, disfigured, 
abrased, or ill-cooked dish of fish presented at table, is quite 
Buifident to destroy the taste for it forever. 



106 

All salt fish reqtdre to be soaked in cold water before cook- 
ing, according to the time it has been in salt When hard and 
dry, it will require thirty-six hours soaking, before dressing ; 
the water must be changed three or four times. 

Oysters must be fresh and &t to be good. They are in sea- 
son from September to May. 

The small ones, such as are sold by the quart, are good for 
pies, fritters, or stews ; the largest of this sort are nice for fry- 
ing or pickling for family use ; the largest for frying, broil- 
ing, && 

7BESH OOD— BOILXn. 

The thiduiess of this fish being very unequal, the head and 
shoulders greatly preponderating, it is seldom boiled whole, 
because in a large fish the tail, from its thinness in comparison 
to the upper part of the fish, would be very much overdone. 
Tie up the head and shoulders well, place it in the kettle with 
enough cold water to completely cover it ; cast in a hand full of 
salt The fish, if a small one, will be cooked in twenty mmutes 
after it has boiled, if lai^ it will take half an hour. 

Serve with plain boiled potatoes and drawn butter, parsley, 
or egg sauce. ' 

Giamish with sprigs of parsley ; lay a folded napkin on the 
dish under the fish. 

BAXXD OOD. 

Out a large fine piece out of the middle of the fish ; skin it 
carefully ; stuff it with a stuffing composed of the yolks of two 
eggs boiled hard, the roe half-boiled, bread crumbs, grated 
lemon peel, butter, pepper, and salt, to taste. Bind it with 
the undressed white of an egg, sew in the stuffing with white 
thread. Bake it in a Dutch oven before the fire, turn it fre- 
quently, and baste it with butter ; serve with shrimp sauce, 
plain butter, or oyster sauce. A tin baking dish is preferable 
to any other for cooking this fish. 



106 PBACnOAL eOOEXRT. 

BltOILBD FRBSH COD. 

Split the fish by the backbone ; cut each side into pieces 
three inches wide ; roll in flour and broil it over a dear, brisk 
fire of coals ; lay the inside to the fire first Have ready a 
dish, with a quarter of a pound of butter, in which is worked 
of salt and pepper each a teaspoon fiill ; lay the pieces of fish 
on as they are done ; turn them in the butter and serve. Or 
let the fish be cut across in steaks, of an inch in thickness, and 
finish in the same manner. 

CBIMPXD OOD. 

Cut the ood, which should be quite fi^sh, in handsome slioes, 
and lay it for about three hours in spring water salted ; a little 
vinegar must be added, say one wine-glass full ; make a fish 
kettle more than three parts fiiU of spring water, in which a 
large hand full of salt has been thrown, let it boil quickly, put 
in the cod, keep it boiling for ten minutes, it will then be 
enough ; take up the slices of fish with care, and lay them upon 
a fish plate ; garnish with sprigs of parsley, sliced lemon, hora^ 
radish scraped into curls ; serve witii shrimp and oyster sauce. 

ood's hbad. 

Secure it well with a strong string, not too thick ; put it into 
a fish kettle ; cover it with water ; put in a small hand full of 
salt, a wine glass full of vinegar, a quantity of scraped horse- 
radish. Place the fish upon a drainer, and when the water boils, 
put it into the kettle. Boil gently ; when the fish rises to the 
surfiioe, it is enough ; drain it, and be very particular in sliding 
the fish into the fish plate, that it is not broken. 

Garnish with scraped horseradish and lemon* Serve with 
shrimp and oyster sauce. 

OOD OMXLXT. 

Break into amall pieces the thickest parts of a dressed cod, 
season it with a little grated nutmeg andalittle pounded maoe^ 



FISH. lOT 

beat up six eggs well and mix widi it^ forming it into paste, 
fry it as an omelet and serre as hot as possible. 

STEWBD SALT COD. 

Scald some soaked ood in boiling water for ten minutes ; 
scrape it, pick in flakes, and put it in a stewpan, with a table- 
spoon full of butter .worked into the same of flour, moisten it 
with milk ; stew gently for ten minutes ; add pepper to taste, 
and serve hot ; put it in a deep ^ish, slice hard boiled eggs over, 
and sprigs of parsley around the edge. Serve for breakfast^ 
with coSee and tea, and rolls or toast 

CODTISH BALLS. 

Soak the codfish and boil it ; then chop it fine, add equal 
quantity of potatoes, mashed ; moisten with beaten eggs or 
milk and a bit of butter ; pepper it, and make it into round 
flat balls ; rol in flour slightly, and fry in hot lard or beef 
drippings until of a nice brown ; firy gently, and turn over. 
Serve for breakfast. 

7I8H BALLS. 

Chop the fish very small, add some grated bread, parsley, 
pepper, salt^ a little butter, and an egg. Mix all well together, 
and make into balls ; fry them brown. 

CODFISH TOAST. 

Pick the fish in pieces, and soak it in cold water until mxt 
ficientiy fresh, then drain it well, and stir into it a tablespoon 
full of flour, half a teacup fiill of sweet cream, and two thirds 
of a teacup of milk, and one egg. Season it well with pep- 
per, and let it scald slow, stirring it well. Make a nice moist 
toast, well seasoned, and lay^ it on the platter, with the fish over 
it^ and it is ready for the table, and is a fine dish. Made an 
above, without toast, is also good; with yegetables, butter 
may be used instead of creaiiL 



106 PRACTIOAL COOKBBT. 

BUTTBRXD CODFISH. 

Pick and soak as above ; drain ; have a piece of butter as 
large as an e^, melted and hot Stir into the fish a spoon 
full of flour to absorb all the water, and then lay it into the 
hot butter, stirring it well about five minutes ; then lay it upon 
the platter, pepper, and send it up. This, some prefer to any 
other mode of preparation. 

PLAIN BOILKD SALT CODriSH. 

Soak the fish twelve or fifteen hours. In the morning take 
it from the water, and dean it nicely with a brush. Put it in- 
to the fish kettle, and rub over it a teacup full of molasses; 
cover it with water, and let it boil fifteen minutes ; set your 
kettle back, where it will keep warm. Half an hour before 
dinner, put it on, and let it boil again. Slip it carefully from 
the strainer, on to a dish, and cover with a white napkin. Serve 
with melted butter, and hard boiled eggs. If these directions 
are followed, the fish will always be tender. 

TO BOIL HADDOCKS. 

Cleao them very thoroughly, and take off the heads and the 
skin, put them into boiling water, throw in two moderate size^ 
hands full of salt^ let them boil as fast as possible, and when 
they rise to the sur&ce (which they will do, if they have sud 
ficient room,) they are done enough. They are sent to table 
with plain butter for sauce. 

TO STXW HADDOCKS. 

Bone, cat off the heads, tails, fins, and do the trimming neatly, 
of two or three haddocks, or as many as are required, put them 
in three pints of water, with a teaspoon full of pepper corns, 
and a large onion, stew slowly flve-and-thirty minutes, strain 
the gravy ofi| take up the fish, dredge it with flour, fry it brown 
over a dear fire, and replace it in the stock; add half a tea* 



7I8H. 109 

spoon fUll of cayenne pepper, squeeze in half a lemon, a tabl^ 
spoon full of ketchup, and stew till the gravy is of a rich coi^ 
sistency. These quantities are for three haddocks. 

HADDOCK TO BROIL. 

Flour it, broil it a fine brown over a quick, dear Sre ; the 
higher you are able to place the gridiron the better ; serve 
with lobster sauce. 

BXRRINGS. 

Herrings are dressed in a variety of fashions ; they are fried, 
boiled, broiled, dried, potted, baked, smoked, pickled. 

There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and red her- 
rings ; they are cleaned like any other sort of fish ; when fresh 
they are boiled and served with melted butter, white sauce, 
&c.\ the salted herring should be soaked in cold water before 
it is cooked ; this is broiled ; sometimes it is cut in pieces and 
eaten raw ; the red herring is split down the back, the head 
and tail taken ofl^ and the fish broiled like the others ; they may 
be also dressed in the following manner : when they have laid 
in cold water some time, soak them in milk for two hours, 
then split them down the back, have ready some melted but- 
ter in which has been mixed the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and 
nutmeg, rub the herrings well with this bread, then broil them 
over a gentle fire ; serve with lemon juice ; the best red her- 
rings are full of roe, and firm and large, and have a yellow cast ; 
of the fresh herrings the scales are bright, if good, the eye is 
full and the gill red ; the fish should be 8ti£ 

mxsH HKRBnrfis — broilxdl 

To broil them, steep them first in vinegar and water, into 
which a hand full of salt has been thrown ; let them remain 
ten minutes, take them out and broil them over a clear fire, 
(the bars of the gridiron should be rubbed with suet, to pre- 
vent the skin of the fish adhering to it) Serve, garnished with 



110 PBAOnCAX. OOOKXBT. 

parsley. - They may be eaten wilih melted butter, whh a little 
mustard and vinegar in it, or lemon juice instead of the latter 
being preferable. 

H ALIB OT— STEWai). 

Put into a stewpsn half a pint of fish broth, a tablespoon 
full of vinegar, and one of mushroom ketchup, two good sized 
onions cut in quarters, a bunch of sweet herbs; add a pint and a 
half of water, let it stew an hour and a quarter, strain it off 
clear, put into it the head and shoulders of a fine halibut and 
stew until tender ; thicken with butter and flour, and serve. 

TO STXW LOBSTBRS. 

Extract from the shells of two lobsters, previously boUed, 
all the meat ; take two-thirds of a quart of water, and stew the 
shells in it, with mace, unground pepper, and salt Let it boil 
an hour or more, till you have obtained all that is to be had 
from the shells ; then strain. Add the richest portion of the 
lobster and some of the best of the firm meat to some thin 
melted butter; squeeze a small portion of lemon juice into it; 
add a tablespoon fiill of Maderia ; pour this into the gravy, and 
when warmed, it is ready to serve. 

TO BOAST LOB8TBBS. 

Take live lobster ; half boil it ; remove it from the kettle 
in which it is boiling ; dry it with a doth ; while hot, rub it 
over with butter ; set it before a good fire ; baste it with but- 
ter ; when it produces a fine froth, it is done ; serve with 
melted butter. 

LOBSTXB COLD. 

Take the fish from the shell; divide it in small piaoes; mash 
the scarlet meat ; pr^Mure salad of cayenne pepper, salt, vine* 
gar, and mustard. Add oil, if liked. Mix the lobster with 
this prepaimtion, and server 



in 



Qeanse the fish thoroughly, inside and oat ; remove the roe 
carefully ; steep it in vinegar and water, and replace it ; place 
the fish in water from which the chill has been taken, and boil 
very slowly from fifteen to twenty minutes; the best criterion 
is to be found in the starting of the eyes and splitting of the 
tail ; when that takes place, the fish is done ; take it out of the 
water instantly ^ or you will not preserve it whole. Gramish 
with fennel or parsley, and either, chopped fine in melted but* 
ter, serve up as sauce. Gooseberry sauce is occasionally sent 
to table, but it does not suit every palate. 

t 

TO BBOIL TBBSB MACKBBBL. 

Cleanse it well, and cut with a sharp knife a gash from bead 
to tail, just sufficiently on one side to clear the back bone ; 
pass into the incision a little pepper (cayenne) and salt, moist- 
ened with clarified butter ; broil it over a clear fire ; be partic- 
ular that the bars of the gridiron are well rubbed over with 
suet, to prevent the skin of the mackerel adhering in turning; 
the aides, being the thinnest part, will be first done ; take off 
the gridiron, and hold it in front of th^ fire for five minutes, 
the back of the fish being next the fire, and the fish will be 
thoroughly done ; this is the readkei and most efieotive mode. 
Sauces same as for boiled madier^ 

SALT MACKBRXL. 

Soak them two days, inside down, in cold water, changing 
the water once or twice ; when firesh enough, dean thoroughly, 
and wipe dry. It may then be fried or broiled, or boil in a 
little water. Serve the fish with bits of butter over it. * 

BOALLOF OTsnaa. 
Wash dean some bottom shdls of the oysters, if you have 
not iOver shells or scallop sheila ; batter a&d bread cnimb 



112 PRAOnOAL OOOKSBT. 

them; blanch your oysten; either do them whole or out 
them; make a thick sauoe with the liquor, adding a good 
spoon full of white sauce ; season with cayenne pepper and 
salt ; fill in the shells and bread crumbs on the top, and ^rinkle 
darilied butter on the tops ; brown in the oven ; dish them 
upon a napkin. 

BOABT OTSTXRS. 

Large oysters not opened ; a few minutes before they are 
wanted, put them on a gridiron, over a moderate fire. When 
done, they will open ; do not lose the liquor that is in the shell 
with the oyster ; send them hot upon a napkin. 

BAKXD OR BOALLOPSD OT8TXB8. 

Grate a small loaf of stale bread. Butter a deep dish well, 
and cover the sides and bottom with bread crumbs. Fill the 
dish half full of oysters, with a little ground mace and pepper. 
Cover them with crumbs and small bits of butter, strewed over 
them. Then fill up the dish with oysters ; season them, and 
cover them as before, with crumbs and butter. If the oysters 
are fresh, pour in a little of the liquor ; if they are salt, substi- 
tute a little water. Bake them a very short time. 

BTXWKD OT8TBR8. 

They should be only boiled a few minutes. Add to them 
a little water, salt, a sufficient quantity of butter, and pepper ; 
roll crackers fine and stir in. Some prefer toast of bread, laid 
in the bottom of the dish, with less cracker. They should be 
served hot 

BTSWBD 0T8TKR8 — ^ANOTHKR. 

Hie oysters should be rinsed in their own liquor, which 
should be then strained and thickened with flour and butter, 
and placed with the oysters in a stewpan; add mace, and 
some white pepper, whole; these ingredients had better be 



nsB. 113 

confined in a piece of muslin. The stew must only simmer ; 
if it is suffered to boil, the oyster will become hard ; serve 
with slices of bread. This may be varied by adding a glass 
of wine to the liquor, before the oysters are put in and 
warmed. 

OTBTXa FBITTXRS. 

The liquor should be separated from the oysters, and strained. 
Add to It half a pint of milk, and two beaten eggs ; stir in 
flour, to make a smooth, thin batter ; add the oysters ; fry in 
lard, boiling hot, putting in the batter and one or more oysters, 
with a spoon, at each time. Turn the fritters till brown. 
Serve for break&st or supper. 

VRIXD OTBTXRS. 

Large ones are the best Wipe them dry ; dip them in 
batter, or roll them in flour, or cracker rolled fine ; fry them 
five minutes, with a little hot lard in the pan, turning them 
over carefully. A little of the liquor may be added to the 
gravy in the pan, afler the oysters are cooked ; dish gravy 
with the oysters. 

0T8TSRS. 

If eaten immediately upon being opened, neither vinegar 
nor pepper should be taken with them, or the flavor will dis- 
appear in the taste of the vinegar. 

FRIED 0T8TBR8, TO GARNISH BOJLXD FI8H. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs ; season it a very lit- 
tle ; dip the oysters into it, and fry them to a fine yellow 
brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and 
a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

PICKLXD 0T8TERS. 

Let them be fine and large, and put them over a gentle fire, 

with their liquor ; add a bit of butter ; simmer, and stir, to 

8 



1 14 PBAOTICAL OOOXXBT. 

prevent burning. When plump and white, remove the oys- 
ters ; spread them on a thickly folded cloth, on a table, to cool. 
Take of their own liquor half enough to cover them, and as 
mudi good vin^ar ; make it hot ; have ready a stone pot or 
tureen ; put into it a layer of oysters ; over them strew a salt- 
spoon full of ground mace, and a dozen doves, allspice, and 
whole pepper. Then another kyer of oysters, and spice and 
oysters alternately ; d&en pour over the vinegar and juice. 
They wiU be fit for use the next day, and will remain good for 
months, in a cold place. They may be put in glass jars or 
bottles ; a little sweet oil put in the top of each, and stopped 
and sealed tight, they will keep good for a year. A bit of 
cotton applied to the top of a bottle, after drawing the cork, 
will absorb the oil. 

OYSTER PH. 

Line a deep pie plate with pie crust; fill it with dry pieces 
of bread ; cover it over with puff paste ; bake it to a light 
brown, either in a quick oven or bake pan. Have the oysters 
stewed just by the time the crust is done ; take off the upper 
crust ; remove the pieces of bread ; put in the oysters ; sea- 
son them with salt, pepper, and butter. A little walnut cat- 
sup improves the pie, but is not essential ; cover it with the 
crust 

0T8TXB PAKOAKES. 

Mix equal quantities of milk and oyster juice together. To 
a pint of the liquor, when mixed, put a pint of wheat flour, a 
few oysters, a couple of ^gs, and a little salt Drop by the 
large spoon fiill into hot lard. 

OHOWDSB. 

Lay some slices, out firom the fat part of pork, into a deep 
fltewpan ; mix sliced cmiona, widi a variety of sweet herbs, and 
lay tfaem onthepoik; bone and cut a fi:edi cod into thin slioea. 



nsH. 115 

and place them on tbe pork ; tben put a layer of pork ; on 
that a layer of biscuit ; then alternately the other materials, 
until the pan is nearly full ; season with pepper and salt ; put 
in about a quart of water ; cover the stewpaa very close, and 
let it stand, with fire above as well as below, fi>r four hours ; 
then skim it well, and it is done. 

FRXSH SiXMON BOILED. 

Scale and dean, cutting open no more than is necessary. 
Place it in a kettle of cold water, with a hand full of salt Let 
it boil slowly, but it should be well cooked — about a quarter 
of an hour to a pound of fish. Skim it well, and as soon as 
done, llfl it carefully into a napkin, to absorb the moisture, and 
wrap it dose. Send to table on a hot dish ; garnish with horse- 
radish and curled parsley, or boiled eggs, cut in rings, laid 
round the dish. Oyster sauce is best with fresh boiled fish. 

SALMON BOASTBD. 

Take a large piece from the middle of a very fine salmon ; 
dredge well with flour ; and, while roasting, baste it with but* 
ter. Serve, garnished with lemon. 

OOLLARKD BALHOIT. 

Cut off the head and shoulders, and the thinnest part of the 
tail, thus leaving the primest part of the salmon to be collared. 
Split it, and having washed and wiped it well, make a com- 
pound of cayenne pepper, white pepper, a littJe salt, and some 
pounded mace. Rub the fish well with this mixture, inside 
and out ; roll, and bandage with broad tape ; lay it iu a sauce- 
pan ; cover it with water and vinegar, one part of the latter to 
two of the former ; add a tablespoon full of pepper — ^black and 
white, whole — and some salt Keep the lid dosed down. 
Simmer until enough ; stram off the liquor ; let it cool ; pour 
over the fish when cold. 



116 PRACnOAL OOOKBKT. 

BAIMOV BROILSD. 

Cut the fish in slices, from the best part ; each slice should 
be an inch thick ; season well with pepper and salt ; wrap each 
slice in white paper, which has been buttered with fresh butter ; 
fasten each end by twisting or tying ; broil over a very dear 
fire eight minutes. Serve with butter, or tomato sauce. 

SMOKSD SALM017. 

Glean and scale ; cut the fish up the back ; take out the roe 
and the bone neatly. Rub inside and out, with equal parts of 
Havana sugar and salt, and a little saltpetre. Press the fish 
flat, with a board and weights on it two days. Drain from 
the salt ; wipe it, and stretch it open, and fiisten with a pin or 
stick. Then hang up, and smoke over a wood fire five or six 
days. When used, soak the siloes m lukewarm water, and 
broil for break&st 

BAXKD SHAD. 

In the first place, make a stuffing of the head, seasoned with 
pe{)per, salt, doves, and sweet maijoram ; moisten it with the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Stuff the fish ; rub the outside with 
the yolk of egg, and some of the stuffing. Liay the fish in a 
deep pan, putting its tail to its mouth. Pour in the pan a lit- 
tle water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Bake two 
hours ; pour the gravy round it ; garnish with sliced lemon, 
and send to table. Any fish may be baked in this way. 

BROILSD SHAD. 

Qit the fish the same as for firying, or merely split it in two ; 
lay it on a gridiron, over a bright, steady fire of coals ; let it 
broil gently ; put the inside to the fire first, that it may be 
done through ; have ready a deep dish, with nearly a quarter 
of a pound of sweet butter, and a teaspoon full of salt and pep- 
per eachy worked into it ; when both aides of the fish are don^ 



VIBH. 117 

lay it on the dish ; turn it several times in the butter ; ooYer 
it with a tin oover, and set the dish where it will keep hot, 
until ready to serve. 

TO BOU. SHAD. 

Split; washy and dry in a doth. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Grease the gridiron ; lay the fish, the outside uppermost, 
over coals, and broil a quarter of an hour or more. Butter it 
well ; season with pepper and salt ; send to table hot 

8TUROSON BROILBD. 

Cut a fine piece of the fish ; and, skinning it, divide it into 
slices. Beat up three e^s, and dip each of the slices into them ; 
powder fine bread crumbs, mixed with finely chopped parsley ; 
pepper and salt over them ; fold them in paper, and broil them, 
being careful that the fire b dear. Send them to table with 
essence ofandiovies, and soy, accompanied by cold butter. 

BTUaOBON BOASTED. 

Cut into slices as above, but do not remove the skin ; split 
the pieces; roast tenderly, basting frequently with butter. 
Make a brown gravy ; flavor it with essence of anchovies ; 
squeeze in a quarter of a lemon, and add a glass of sherry ; 
serve up with the fish. 

STURGBON 0UTLBT8. 

Take off the skin ; cut from the tail piece slices half an inch 
thick ; rub them with salt, and broil over a hot fire ; butter, 
and sprinkle on them cayenne pepper ; or first dip them in 
beaten yolk of egg and bread crumbs, and wrap them up in 
buttered papers, and broil over a clear fire. Send to table 
without the papers. 

BSL*8 BREAD CRUMBED. 

Skin, dress, and cut your fish in pieces two indies long ; 
dry and flour them, and proceed as for other firied fish ; dish 
them on a napkin, with fried parsley. 



1 18 PRAOnCAL COOKKRT. 

FRIXD XELB. 

SkiDf dresB, and cut into pieces, cleaned nicely, and well 
dried ; let them be coated with yolk of egg, powdered with 
bread crumbs ; fry them brown ; serve with parsley and but 
ter. Garnish with handsome sprigs of parsley. 

BOILSD EELS. 

Choose the smallest ; simmer in a small quantity of water, 
into which a quantity of parsley has been put Gramish, and 
serve with same sauce as the last 

8TXWBD TAUTOU, OR BLACK FISH. 

Stuff the fish with pork, onions, bread, salt, and pepper. 
Lay it whole length in the kettle, keeping it well covered, to 
keep in the steam. When it is about half done, pour a little 
melted butter over it Stew it very slowly for two hours. 
Make a gravy of claret wine, scorched flour, pepper, cayenne, 
and doves. 

TROUT. 

Scale, gut, dean, dry, and flour ; fry them in butter until 
they are a rich clear brown ; fry some green parsley ; crisp 
and make some plain melted butter; the butter may be 
poured over the fish, but it is most advisable to send it in a 
butter tureen. 

TROUT STEWED. 

Tiaa is a pleasing and delicate dish when nicely stewed. It 
Is dressed very much in the fiuhion of other small fish stewed, 
only that it requires more care, perhaps, in Uie difierent pro- 



First wash and dean the fish ; wipe it perfectly dry ; put 
into a stewpan two ounces of butter ; dredge flour in as it 
melts, and add grated nutm^, a little mace, and a little cay- 
enne. Stew well, and when fluid and tiioroughlj mixed, lay 



nsB. 119 

in the fish, which having suffered to slightly brown, cover with 
a pint of veal gravy ; throw in a little salt, a small iagot of 
parsley, a few rings of lemon peel ; stew slowly forty min- 
utes ; take out the fish ; strain the gravy dear, and pour it 
over the fish. 

TURBOT. 

Place the turbot, previously to cooking, to soak, in salt and 
water, in which a little vin^ar has been poured ; lay it upon 
its back in the fish kettle ; fill the latter three parts full with 
cold water ; throw in a hand full of salt, and a gill of vinegar; 
let it boil very gradually, and when it boils, add cold water, to 
check ; thirty minutes is sufficient to cook it ; serve it upon a 
cloth, as boiled, with its back to the dish ; garnish tastefully 
with sprigs of parsley, and horse-radish scraped into curls, or 
with firied smelts, or barberries and parsley. Lobster sauce. 

PIKX AND FICKERXL. 

These &vorite fish may be stewed, fried, or boiled, in the 
same manner as most other fresh fish. 

SOFT 8HBLL CLAMS STSWSD. 

Take the clams fi-om the shell, and free them from the black 
skin ; wash, and put them in the pan, with a little water ; stew 
over a gentle fire for half an hour ; add butter ; dredge with 
flour, and salt and pepper to taste ; stir in ; cover ten minutes, 
and serve hot 

HARD SHXLL CLAMS FRIXD. 

Get the large sand dams ; wash them in their own liquor ; 
dip them in wheat flour or rolled crackers, and fry in hot lard 
or beef dripping, without salt ; or dip each one in batter made 
as for dam fritters. 



120 PBAOnCAL COOKBRT. 

OHOWDSR. 

Fry three or four slices of salt pork till brown ; cut each 
of your fish into five or six slices; flour, and put a layer of 
them in your pork fat ; sprinkle on pepper and a little salt ; 
add cloves, mace, and sliced onions, if you like ; lay on several 
oits of your fried pork, and crackers previously soaked sofl in 
cold water. This process repeat till you get in all the fish ; then 
turn on water enough to just cover them ; put on a heated 
bakepan lid ; when the fish have stewed about twenty minutes, 
take them up, and mix a couple of teaspoons full of flour with 
a little water, and stir it into the gravy ; also a little butter 
and pepper. Half a pint of white wine, spices, and catsup, 
will improve it Bass and cod make the best chowder ; black 
fish and clams make tolerably good onea The hard part of 
the dams should be cut o% and thrown away. 

FISH SALADS. 

All kinds of fish lefl from the former days, make good sal- 
ads ; introduce all the articles as for fish salads, cutting the 
fish, when cold, into thin slices, and using fillets of anchovies. 

FISH FORCE MXAT BALLS. 

Take a little uncooked fish ; chop it fine, together with a lit- 
tle raw salt pork ; mix it with one or two raw eggs, a few 
crumbs of bread, and season the whole with pepper and spices. 
Add a little catsup, if you like ; do them up into small balla. 
and fry them till brown. 



Tkw n making Miioes. As mo«t 

of I^et >nt1y, die whole attention 

should 1 itter way is to prepare tho 

sauces before cooking those articles whidi demand equal care ; 
they may be kept hot; butter, and those sauces contwning 
eggs, ought never to boil. The thickest stcwpans should be 
used for making sauces, and wooden spoons for stirring thenL 

XltOHOTT BAUGX. 

To about half a pint of melted batter, put two tablespoooa 
fiill of good esaence of anchovies with the juice of half ■ 
lemon. Serve very hoL 



Pare, quarter, and core a quarter of a peck of rich, tart ap- 
ples; put them in a stewpan, with a teacup of water; add 
some finely chopped lemon-peel, and a lar^e cup of sugar; 
grate half a nutmeg over, and cover the stevrpan ; let them 
stew gently for half an hour, then roash them fine ; add a teai- 
cup of butter, and serve with trailed rice or boiled batter 
pudding. 

BRKAD BADOB. 

Cut in alioes the crumb of a Froich roll, to which add a 

few peppercorns, one whole onion, a little salt, and bmling milk 

enough to cover it; let it simmer gently by the side of the 

fire, till tiie bread aoaka up the milk ; add a little thick cream ; 

F 



122 PRACTICAL COOKXRT. 

take out the onion, and rub the whole through a sieve ; make 
it very hot, and serve with game or fowls. 

BREAD SAUCE ANOTHER. 

Take crumbs of bread, soak them in milk, and put them 
over the (ire with a small piece of butter, a little salt, mace, 
two or three cloves, some whole pepper, and a very little chop- 
ped onion ; stew it slowly until the bread is thoroughly boiled 
up with the milk ; it should be perfectly smooth, and of the 
coDsbtency of drawn butter ; serve with plain boiled fish. 

SAUCE, BROWN. 

Take a pound or two of steaks, two or three pounds of veal, 
some pickings of fowls, carrots and onions ; put all these into 
a saucepan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk fire ; 
when scarcely any moisture remains, put it on a slow fire that 
the jelly niay take the color without burning ; and as soon as 
it is brown, moisten it with stock or water; add a bunch 
of green onions or parsley, two cloves ; salt it well, and set it 
on the fire for three hours, then strain in ; boil it half an hour 
over a gentle fire ; take off all the &t, and run it through a 
bolting-doth, or fine sieve. 

CAPER SAUCS FOR FISH. 

Take some melted butter, into which throw a small bit of 
glaze ; and when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into 
it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoon full of es> 
senoe of anchovies. 

CRANBBRRT SAUCB. 

Wash and pick a pint of cranberries ; put them in a 
■tewpan with a small teacup of water, and a lai^ teacup of 
■ugar over ; oover them ; let them stew gently for nearly an 
hour in a aaaoa diah. 



SAucxs. 128 

COD SAUGS. 

Take a bunch of parsley, a small odiod, two doves, some 
mushrooms, and a bit of butter ; soak all together on the fire, 
adding a small teaspoon full of flour, and milk or cream sufB- 
cieot to boil to the consistence of a sauce, and add to it some 
chopped parsley first scalded. 

ORXAM aAuos. 

Put into a stewpan a little butter, a little parsley, and a few 
green onions, all cut small ; turn them a few times over the 
fire ; then add some flour, and moisten with cream or milk ; 
let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour ; strain off the sauce, 
and when you want it for use, put in a litttle butter, some pars- 
ley just scalded and chopped fine, salt, and whole pepper ; then 
thicken the same over the fire ; this may be used with all kinds 
of dishes that are done white. 

XOO 8AUCX. 

Boil three eggs hard ; cut them in small squares, and mix 
them in good butter sauce ; make it very hot, and squeeze in 
some lemon juice before you serve it 

FRESH PORK BAUCB. 

Cut two or three good sized onions into slices, and fry them 
lightly ; then add a little broth, a few mushrooms chopped, a 
dove of garlic, vinegar and spice ; let it boil half an hour, re- 
duce to a proper consistence, skim and strain it. 

GARLIO SAUCS. 

Take two doves of garlic, and pound them with a piece of 
fresh butter about the size of a nutmeg ; roll it through a 
double hair sieve, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter, 
or beef gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. 



124 PRAOnOAL COOKXRT. 

H0R8KBADISH 8AU0K, HOT. 

Slice two onions and fry them in oil ; and when they begin 
to color, put tnem into a saucepan with a glass of white wine, 
the same of broth, two slices of lemon peeled, two cloves of 
garlic, a bay leat, thyme, basil, and two doves ; boil these a 
quarter of an hour, and then sorain it ; add capers, and an an- 
chovy chopped, pepper, salt, and a spoon full of horseradish 
boiled to a pulp ; warm the whole without boiling. 

LXMOir SAUOB, WHITB, FOR BOILRD FOWLS. 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of 
sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon, thyme, and ten white 
peppercorns. Simmer it gently, till it tastes well of the lem- 
on ; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of 
butter rubbed into a dessertspoon full of flour ; boil it up ; 
then pour the juice of the lemon, strained, into it, stirring well ; 
dish the fowls, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot^ 
with the cream, but do not boil them together ; add salt ac- 
cording to taste. 

LBMON SADOX, FOR PUDDIKOS. 

Boil a fresh lemon skin in plenty of water, until a straw 
will penetrate it ; then cut it into slices, and each slice in quar- 
ters ; put to them and the juice a teacup of sugar, and the same 
of butter, with a large teaspoon full of wheat flour, worked 
into it ; put all together into a stewpan, and sUr in gradually 
half a pint of boiling water; keep it over the Are for ten min- 
utes, stirring it all the time ; then serve, with half a nutmeg 
grated over. 

LIMON CONSERVB. 

Put a half pound of fresh butter into a saucepan ; when 
softened to a cream, add one pound of powdered loaf sugar ; 
then add the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, and the whites of 



8AU0S8. 125 

two, beaten to a fh>tih; the grated rinds of two lemons, dried 
ibr a few days in the sun, and the juioe of three ; stirring the 
whole over the fire until it is of the thickness of good cream. 
Be sure not to let it boil. 
This is excellent with griddle cakes. 

MINT SAUOK. 

Strip (^ the leaves, and chop them fine ; add an equal 
amount of sugar, and cover the whole with vinegar. A small 
teacup lull of the mixture will be sufficient for a large fiimilj. 
Try this, and see if not far preferable to greasy gravies. 

LOBSTXR 8AI70B. 

Put the spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a bit of 
butter and well pound it; then rub it through a fine sieve; 
put some butter sauce into a stewpan, and the spawn of the 
lobster ; set it on the fire till it is very hot, and looks quite 
smooth and red ; if not smooth, pass it through a sieve ; then 
put in the meat of the lobster, cut into small dices ; make it 
very hot ; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and serve. 

MUSHROOM SAUOX. 

Cut some mushrooms into pieces ; press them in a doth, 
and mince them ; do them up in a little melted butter ; then 
add some good stock parsley, two cloves of garlic ; skim and 
cook them over a moderate fire for half an hour ; strain ; take 
off the fiit, and serve it very hot 

OTSTKR 8AU0B. 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it with a bit 
of mace and lemon peel. In the meantime, throw the oysters 
into cold water, and drain it off Strain the liquor, and put it 
into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a 
little milk, as will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little 
flour with it 



126 PRACTICAL COOKXRT. 



* 



Set them oyer the fire, and stir all the time, and when the 
batter has boiled once or twice, take them ofl^ and keep the 
saucepan near the fire, but not on it ; fi)r, if done too much, 
the oysters wiD be hard. Squeeze a little lemon juice, and 
serve. 

A little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oys- 
ters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. 

OmOV BAUCB. 

Hie onions must be peeled, and then boiled till they are 
tender ; then squeeze the water from them ; chop them, and 
add butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, with a lit- 
tie good milk, instead of water ; give it one boil; serve it with 
boiled rabbits^ partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast 
mutton ; a turnip boiled with the onions draws out the strength. 

BWBST SAUCB. 

Work a teacup of sugar into a teacup of butter, with a tea- 
spoon full of flour, and half a nutmeg, grated ; when it is a 
smooth paste, stir gradually into it half a pint of boiling water ; 
set it over the fire for ten minutes ; stir it all the time ; then 
turn it into a tureen, and serve with boiled batter or apple 
puddings. A glass of wine may be added to this, or a lemon 
sliced thin, and cat into dice ; put it in before putting it on 
the fire. 

PUDDIKO BAUCB. 

Half a pound of sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter, 
nibbed to a cream ; the rind and juice of a lemon. Just be- 
fore it is served, pour over half a pint of boiling wine, stirring 
it all the time. 

SAUCB FOR WILD FOWLS. 

Simmer a taacap fiill of port wine, the same quantity of 
good meat gravy, a little onion, a little pepper, sal% a grate of 



SA17CBS. I2T 

nutmeg, and a bit of mace, fbr ten minutes ; put a bit of but- 
ter and flour ; give it all one boil, and pour it through the 
birds. In general, they are not stuffed as tame, but may be 
done so, if liked. 

WHITS SATJCX. 

Half a pint of cream, a small piece of butter, rolled in flour, 
a wine glass of wine, some nutmeg, and grated lemon peeL 
Stir it over the fire till it boils. 

8UPKRI0R SAUCK, FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix six yolks of eggs with four spoons full of sifted sugar 
and butter together ; have a pint of boiling cream, which you 
will mix with your yolks ; afterward put it on the fire, and 
stir it until it is of the consistency of sauce ; then add to it a 
good wineglass of brandy. 

TOMATO 8AU0S, FOR HOT OR COLD MSAT8. 

Put tomatoes, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar, and 
set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite 
soft ; then separate the skin from the pulp, and mix this with 
vinegar, and a few cloves of garlic, [>ounded, both of which must 
be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add salt to your 
taste. Keep the mixture in small, wide-mouthed bottles, well 
corked, and in a dry, cool place. 

WINS SAUCB. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet butter to a cream ; add 
gradually to it a quarter of a pound of fine white sugar, and a 
wine-glass of wine, with half a nutmeg, grated ;* continue to 
beat it until it is light and white ; then mould it into a neat 
form, and serve. Leuion or brandy sauces may be made in 
the same manner, by substituting lemon or brandy fbr wine. 



128 PRACTICAL COOKBRT. 

WHITK BAUOS, FOR FRI0A8XR OF FOWLS, RABBITS, WHITB MXAT, 

FISH, OR YBGSTABLKS. 

It 18 seldom necessary to buy meat for this fiivorite sauoe, 
as the proportion of that flavor is but small. The water that 
has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit ; or a little broth, that may 
be in the house ; or the feet and necks of chickens, or raw or 
dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of 
these, with a bit of lemon peel, some sliced onions, some white 
pepper-corns, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a bunch 
of sweet herbs, until the flavor be good, then strain it and add 
a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour ; salt 
to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added afler the 
sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is 
often used in fricassee ; but if you have any cream, it is bet 
ter, and the former is apt to curdle. 

YBHISON SAUOB. 

Haifa pint of port wine, made hot, with a tablespoon full of 
white sugar, the same of currant jelly, and a bit of butter, the 
«ze of a large egg. 

FARCES AKD STUFFINGS. 

For a veal stuffing, chop some suet fine, a little parsley, a 
small piece of onion ^ rub through a dry sieve a small quantity 
of marjoram and thyme ; add these to your suet ; a grating 
of half a lemon, a few grains of nutmeg, a few bread crumbs, 
and one or two e^s ; mix all well together; season with pep- 
per and salt 

If for game, scrape the raw livers into the stuffing, prepared 

as above, only, in addition, pound it all fine. 

» 

FORCB MEAT INORBDIBITT8. 

Force meat should be made to cut with a knife, but not 
dry or heavy ; no one flavor should predominate ; according 
to what it is wanted for, a choice may be made firom the foI> 



I 



SAuoxs. 129 



lowing list ; be careful to use the least of those articles that 
are most pungent : cold fowl, or yeal, or ham, scraped &t ba- 
ooD, beef suet, crumbs of^rbread, parsley, white pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, yolks and whites of e^s, beaten, to bind the mixture. 
Any of the following articles may be used, to alter the taste : 
^ oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, pennyroyal, marjoram, 

' thyme, yoiks of hard eggs, cayenne, garlic, pepper, in powder, 

or two or three doves. 

F» 9 



CHAPTER XII. 
VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 

VxoKTABLKa foTm a most important feature m the art of cook- 
ing. Much depends upon boiling greens, and the manner in 
which it is done; t^e water should be soft; a hand full of salt 
^uld be thrown into the water, which should be made to boil 
before the greeiu are put m ; it should then be made what 
ooolia term " gallop ; " the saucepan should be kept uncorered, 
and when the gre«i8 sink they are done ; take them out, and 
quickly, toa Vegetables are a most useful accessory to our 
duly food, and should be made the object of a greater study 
than Ibey are usually. 

Cm ihould be t^eo in the fntemiioa o( vegeublea fi» 



▼SOnABLXS, XTO. ISl 

winter use. Green beans may be preserved by bong packed 
in layers of salt. They should be soaked before being used. 
Carrots, beans, beet-roots, parsnips, and potatoes keep best in 
dry sand or earth in a cellar ; turuips keep best on a cellar 
bottom, or they may be kept the same as carrots, etc. What- 
ever earth remains about them, when taken from the ground, 
should not be taken ofE When sprouts come on potatoes or 
other stored vegetables, they should be carefully cut o£ 

Celery may be kept in the cellar all winter, by setting it in 
boxes filled with eartL Cabbage keep soma time, by being 
laid on a stone floor, in the cellar. 

To keep pumpkin, it should be out up and dried, or stewed 
and made up into cakes, which should be thoroughly dried in 
the oven or in the sun. 

Parsley should be gathered when young and tender and 
packed in a little sweet butter. 

ABPARAOUB. 

Let the stalks be lightly but well scraped, and as they are 
done, be thrown into cold water ; when all are finished, fiuten 
them into bundles of equal size ; put them into boiling water ; 
throw in a hand full of salt ; boil until the end of the stalk be- 
comes tender ; it will be about half an hour ; cut a round of 
bread, and toast it to a dear brown ; moisten it with the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled, and arrange the stalks with 
the white end outward. A good melted butter must accom- 
pany it to table. 

Asparagus should be dressed as soon after it has been cut as 
practicable. 

ASPnoi A LA PoiB — ninroH BBomu 

When asparagus is first in season, and too small to make a 
handsome appearance, this mode of dressing is very good : 
f^a the asparagus and out off only the gveeo heads; nona of 



192 FRACnOAL OOOKXBT. 

the white stalk must be retained ; put them into dear, cold 
water, and when dean, pop them into boiling water, in which 
salt has been thrown ; in ten minutes they will be tender ; 
they may th^ be taken out and liud upon a white doth, whidi 
must be used to wipe them dry ; lay in a stewpan a dice of 
butter ; when it is melted, put in the asparagus ; stew them 
over a quick fire ; keep them tumbig ; when ten minutes have 
elapsed, dredge a little flour, and a small quantity of white 
sugar, in powder, over them ; beat up the yolks of a couple of 
eggs; pour over the asparagus just suffident water to cover 
them ; boil up rapidly ; stir in the yolk of one egg ; and, ma- 
king a pyramid d the asparagus in the dish, serve very hot. 

BSXTS. 

Break off the leaves, but do not out beets, as that spoils both 
flavor and appearance ; wash them and boil them till tender ; 
then take them out into a basin of cold water, and rub all the 
outside skin ofi) with the hands ; then slice them thin in a dish, 
and just cover them with cold vinegar, and sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt, or quarter them, and lay them for a day or two 
in cold vinegar, as they are then fit for use. The tops of 
young beets are dressed as asparagus. 

BROCCOLL 

Ped the thick skin of the stalks, and boil for a quarter of 
an hour with salt in the water. The small shoots will only re- 
quire half the time. They should be tied in bundles. Berve 
with toast and mdted butter. 

ORUir OR BTRm ORD BRA98. 

Get young, tender beans; take off the stem end, and the 
strings from the sides of the beans, and cut them in lozenges 
of an indi length ; then boil them tender in water to cover 
them. Some b(»l a bit of salt pork with them, or add to 



YSOXTABLIB, XTO. 188 

them, wheD dished, butter, salt^ and pepper, to taste. Green 
corn, cut from die cob, is cooked with them, and called suc- 
cotash. 

CKLBRT. 

Scrape and wash it well ; let it b'e in cold water until just 
before being used ; dry it with a cloth ; trim it, and split down 
the stalks almost to the bottom. Send it to table in a celery 
glass, and eat with salt only ; or chop it fine, and make a salad 
dressing for it^ 

OABBAGK AKD 0AULIFL0WXR8. 

Trim off the loose leaves of the cabbage ; cut the stalk in 
quarters, to the heart of the cabbage ; boil it an hour. If not 
boiled with corned meat, put a little salt in the water in which 
they are boiled. White cauliflowers are the It^est Take off 
the outside leaves ; cut the stalk close to the leaves ; let them 
lie in salt and cold water for half an hour, before boiling them. 
Boil them fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size. 
Milk and water is the best to boil them in, but clear water 
does very well. Put a little salt in the pot in which they are 
boiled. 

OABBAQB SALAD AND COLD SLAW. 

Take a hard, close head of cabbage ; cut it in two, and with 
a sharp knife shave it fine ; lay it in a dish, and garnish and 
finish as lettuce. For cold slaw, cut it in the same way ; then 
add to it a good bit of butter, some vinegar, pepper and salt 
to taste, and put it in a clean stewpan ; set it on the fire, and 
stir it with a silver spoon until the seasoning is mixed, and the 
butter melted. Serve in a covered dish. 

RXD OABBAGB. 

This is eaten as salad, prepared as directed for cabbage salad 
or cold slaw, or it may be shaved fine and pickled. 



184 PRACnOAL OOOKBET. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots may be plain boiled, and served with a drawn but- 
ter sauce. They are generally used in soups^ slioed or grated. 

STXWED OUCUMBBRS. 

Take two or three straight cucumbers ; cut off one end ; 
then take out the seeds ; lay them in vinegar, water, pepper, 
and salt ; have some good fiiroe, and fill each cucumber with 
it ; dry your cucumbers well out of the vinegar first ; then 
dry them in a dean rubber ; then fry them, if for brown ; if 
for white, not ; take them out of the butter, and put them to 
stew into some good stock, one laige onion, a fagot of herbs, 
a slice of lean ham, until tender; thicken the liquor, and 
strain ; season with vinegar, lemon juice, sugar, salt, and white 
pepper ; glaze the cucumbers several times. 

ORSBNB. 

■ 

White mustard, spinach, water cresses, dandelions, and the 
leaves and roots of very small beets, are the best greens. Boil 
them, with a little salt and saleratus in the water. If not 
fresh and plump, soak them in salt and water half an hour, be- 
fore cooking them. When they are boiled enough they will 
sink to the bottom of the pot. 

LBTTUCB. 

Strip off the outside leaves; split it, and lay it in cold water 
awhile. Drain and lay in a salad dish. Have ready two 
hard boiled e^ ; cut in two, and lay on the leaves. If you 
x^oose, it may be dressed with sugar and vinegar, with a lit- 
tle salt, before it goes to the table. Some prefer a dressing 
of salt, mustard, loaf sugar, vinegar, sweet oil, and a mashed 
hard boiled egg, with the salad cut fine and this over it 



VSOBTABLSa^ VTC. 1S5 

ROMINT. 

There are three sizes of hominy ; the middle size is best — 
vash a teacup of it well in two or three waters ; all that is not 
good will rise to the top, drain it carefully off; then put to it 
a quart of water, and let it stand all night ; in the morning add 
to it a teaspoon full of salt, and set the vessel which contains 
it over the fire, in a kettle of boiling water ; one hour will boil 
it ; the reason for putting it in water is, that otherwise it is 
very apt to turn ; when it has absorbed all the water, stir it 
well with a spoon and serve. Coarse hominy requires five or 
six hours boiiitig— dried beans are cooked with it 

ONIONS. 

White onions are best for b<Mling. Take off the skins and 
lay them in cold water for an hour or two before boiling. 
When boiled tender serve them with butter, pepper, and salt 
over, or a drawn butter. The red ones are good sliced thin, 
with vinegar, pepper, and salt Onions may be Cried like 
potatoes. 

GRXXN FBAB. 

A delicious vegetable, a grateful accessory to many dishes 
of a more substantial nature. Green peas should be sent to 
table green; no dish looks less tempting than peas if they wear 
an autumnal aspect Peas should also be young, and as short 
a time as possible should be suffered to elapse between the 
periods of shelling and boiling. If it is a matter of consequence 
to send them to table in perfection, these rules must be strictly 
observed. They should be as near of a size as a discriminating 
eye can arrange them ; they should then be put in a cullender, 
and some cold water sufiered to run through them in order to 
wash them ; then having the water in which they are to be 
boiled slightly salted, and boiling rapidly, poor in the peas^ 
keep the sattoepan onoavered, and keep tlmii boiling swifUy 



196 PBAOnOAL OOOKKBT. 

until, tender; tiiej will take about twenty minutes, barely so 
long, unless older than they should be ; drain completely, pour 
them into the tureen in which they are to be served, and in 
the center put a slice of butter, and when it has melted stir 
round the peas gently, adding pepper and salt ; serve as quickly 
and as hot as possible. 

PXA8 STEWXD IK ORXAM. 

Put two or three pints of young green peas into a saucepan 
of boiling water; when they are nearly dime and tender drain 
them in a cullender quite dry ; melt two ounces of butter iu a 
clean stewpan, thicken it evenly with a little flour, shake it over 
the fire, but on no account let it brown, mix smoothly with it 
the fourth of a pint of cream, add half a teaspoon full of white 
sugar, bring it to a boil, pour in the peas, and keeping them 
moving until they are well heated, which will hardly occupy 
two minutes, send them to table immediately. 

HOW TO OOOX POTATOES — TO BOIL POTATOBS. 

In Ireland potatoes are boiled in perfection. Potatoes should 
always be boiled in their ''jackets;" peeling a potato before 
boiling is ofjfering a premium for water to run through it, and 
go to table waxy and unpalatable ; they should be thoroughly 
washed and put into cold water. In Ireland they always nick 
a piece of the skin off before they place them in the pot ; the 
water is gradually heated, but never allowed to boil; cold 
water should be added as soon as the water commences boil- 
ing, and it should thus be checked until the potatoes are done, 
the skins will not then be broken or cracked until the potato 
is thoroughly done ; pour the water off completely, and let the 
skins be thoroughly dry before peeling. 

TO BOIL KXW POTATOSB. 

The sooner the new potatoes are cooked after being dug, the 
better they will eat ; clear <^ all the loose skins with a ooana 



TSOBTABLB8, STO. 137 

towel and cold water ; when thej are thoroughly clean put 
them into scalding water, a quarter of an hour or twenty min- 
utes will be found sufficient to cook them ; strain off the water 
dry, sprinkle a little salt over the potatoes and send them to 
table. If yery young, melted butter should accompany them. 

m 

TO BOIL IBISH FOTATOSS. 

Wash your potatoes, then pare them, and throw them into 
a pail of cold water ; let them stand several hours, if oonvenient. 
Put them into boiling water, with a little salt, let them boil 
about twenty minutes, or till you can pass a fork through them, 
pour off the water, and let them stand a few moments to dry. 
Take them out one, or if small, two at a time into a clean crash 
towel, and wring them. They will be dry and mealy, as twenty 
years experience has proved. 

R0A8TBD P0TAT0B8. 

Clean thoroughly ; nick a small piece out of the skin, and 
roast in the oven ; a little butter is sometimes rubbed over the 
skin to make them crisp. 

FOTATOBS IN HASTB. 

A very nice little dish may be made of potatoes, in about fif 
teen minutes (or less if the water is boiling ;) peel and out some 
potatoes in slices, a quarter or half an inch thick ; pour on them 
boiling water, enough to cover them, and let them boil till ten. 
der ; skim them ; then add butter with flour, worked in it in 
proportion to the quantity of potatoes, let it boil up once, add 
a little chopped parsley, and serve, with the addition of pepper 
to taste. 

FBIXD OR BROILED FOTATOBS. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes, in slices a quarter of an inch thick ; 
have i^dy a fryingpan with hot lard or dripping, in which put 
some salt) lay in the potatoes, and let them fry a delicate 



1 38 PRAOTIO AL OOOKXRT. 

brown, turning them as they require, or lay them on a grid 
iron over bright ooals, and as they are done take them on a hot 
dish, with butter, pepper, and salt to taste. 

P0TAT0X8 OLAZBD. 

Boil well ; skin them ; choose the most floury, roll them in 
yolk of e^, and place them before the fire to brown. 

POTATO BISaOLXS. 

Boil the potatoes floury ; mash them, seasoning with salt 
and a little cayenne ; mince parsley yery finely and work up 
with the potatoes, adding an onion also chopped small ; bind 
with yolk of egg, roll intx> balls, and fry with fresh butter over 
a dear fire. Meat shred finely, bacon or ham may be added. 

POTATO BAo6UT. 

Mash floury potatoes, make them into balls with yolk of 
egg, flour, and fry them ; drain <^all grease, cover them with 
brown sauce, and serve. 

PORRIDOB, OR, BOUP OF P0TAT0K8. 

Mash them ; after having boiled them quite hot, mix them 
with some fine white veal gravy, thicken with cream ; it should, 
when done, be of the consistency of apple aauoa. 

TO llAfiB POTATOBfl. 

Boil the potatoes as above ; peel them, remove all the eyes 
and lumps ; beat them up with butter and salt until they are 
quite smooth ; force them into a mould which has been pre- 
viously floured, turn into a tureen, which the flour will enable 
you easily to do ; brown them before the fire, turning gently 
80 as not to injure the shape, and when a nice color send to 
table. They are sometimes coated widi white of egg, but thej 
may be oooked widiout 



TXOXTABU8, VTO. 189 

POTATO BALLB. 

Mash some floury potatx)es quite smooth, season with pep- 
per and salt, add fresh butter until sufficiently moist, but not 
too much so ; make into balls, roll them in vermioelli crum- 
bled, or bread crumbs ; in the latter case they may be brushed 
with the yolk of egg ; fry them a nice brown. Serve them on 
a napkm, or round a dish of mashed potatoes which has not 
been moulded. 

BWXBT P0TAT0B8 BAKED. 

Wash them perfectly clean, wipe them dry, and bake in a 
quick oven, according to their size — ^half an hour for quite 
small size, three-quarters for larger, and a full hour for the lar- 
gest Let the oven have a good heat, and do not open it, uur 
less it is necessary to turn them, until they are done. 

FABBNIP FBITTBB8. 

Boil four or five parsnips; when tender, take off the skin 
and mash them fine, add to them a teaspoon fiill of wheat fiour 
and a beateft egg ; put a tablespoon full of lard or beef drip- 
ping in a fryingpan over the fire, add to it a saltspoon fiiU of salt ; 
when boiling hot, put in the parsnips, make it in small cakes 
with a spoon ; when one side is a delicate brown, turn the oth- 
er ; when both are done, take them on a dish, put a very little 
of the fat in which they were fried over, and serve hot. These 
resemble very nearly the taste of the salsify or oyster plant, 
and will generally be preferred. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash parsnips and boil them with the skins on ; when done, 
scrape them and slice them with butter, pepper, and salt; or 
fry them as potatoes in hot lard— or they may be stewed 
down with meat 

RADISHES. 

Wash them, and let them lie in dean, cold water as soon as 
they are brought in. Before they go to table scrape off the oa^ 



140 PRAOnOAL COOKXRT. 

ride skin, trim the sharp end, lea^e the stalk about an inch 
long ; if lax^e, split them in four, half waj down, and send 
them to the table in tumblers, to be eaten with salt. 

SQUASHES. 

Summer squashes, if very young, may be boiled whole — if 
not, they should be pared, quartered, and the seeds taken out. 
When boiled very tender, take them up, put them in a strong 
cloth, and press out all the water — mash them, salt and but> 
ter them to your taste. The neck part of the winter squash 
is the best Cut It in narrow strips, take off the rind, and boil 
the squash in salt and water till tender — then drain off the 
water, and let the squash steam over a moderate fire for ten 
or twelve minutes. It is good mashed — if mashed, add a little 
butter. 

ORBBN 8WEKT OORIT. 

Com is much sweeter to be boiled on the oob. If made 
into succotash, cut it from the cobs, and boil it with Lima beans, 
and a few slices of salt pork. It requires boiling fix>m fifteen 
to thirty minutes, according to its age. 

SBAKALS 

Requires to be very well done — there is little occasion to fear 
doing it too much ; tie in bundles after washing and trimming, 
boil it in equal parts of milk and water, and serve it with melt- 
ed butter. It may be laid on toast or not, according to taste. 

After being well boiled it must be thoroughly drained be- 
fore laying upon the toast ; five4uid-twenty minutes will be 
found sufficient to boil it 

PORRIDGE OF TURNIPS. 

Pare and cut up several turnips into slices, put them on to 
boil in milk and water until tender, strain them on the back of 
a rieve, throw away the liquor, and rub through the turnips; 



▼SGXTABLBS, XTO. 141 

when done put them into a stewpan with a pieoe of butter, a 
spoon full of flour, a gill of cream, a little sugar, salt, and cay- 
enne pepper. 

BROILXD MUSHBOOlfS. 

Pare some large, open mushrooms, leaving the stalks on, 
paring them to a point ; wash them well, turn them on the 
back of a sieve to drain. Put into a stewpan two ounces of 
butter, some chopped parsley, and onions ; fry them for a minute 
on the fire ; when melted place your mushroom stalks upwards 
on a pan, then pour the butter and parsley over all the mush- 
rooms; pepper and salt them well with black pepper, put 
them in the oven to broil ; when done put a little good 'stock 
to them, give them a boil, and dish them ; pour the liquor over 
them, add more gravy, but let it be put in hot ; an hour and 
a quarter before it is done add four tablespoons full of red wine 
to the liquor ; serve very hot 

SALAD. 

Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, thoroughly wash 
them, and drain the water from them, then cut them into small 
pieces, and mix them with small salad, celery, and beet root ; 
cut in small pieces some young radishes, and sliced cucumber, 
and an egg boiled hard cut into pieces and garnished about 
them. Make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, 
which rub well together iii a basin with a wooden spoon ; add a 
little pepper, salt, and mustard ; when these are mixed to a 
smooth paste put in a few teaspoons full of sweet oil, mixing 
it well between each spoon full ; then mix in a few tea^>oons 
full of vinegar in the same manner ; when the sauce is mixed 
according to the directions, it will never require shaking, and 
will always look like cream ; pour this sauce over the salad, 
or serve it in a cruet 



142 P&AOnOAL OOOKIBT. 

BALBIFT OR VSOSTABLB 0T8TBR. 

The best way to oook it is to parboil it, (after scraping off 
the outside,) then cut in slices, dip it into a beaten e^, and fine 
bread crumbs, and fry it in lard. It is very good broiled, then 
stewed a few minutes in milk, with a little butter and salt. 
Another way which is very good, is to make a batter of wheat 
flour, milk and eggs ; cut the salsify in thin slices, (after bay 
ing been boiled tender,) put them into the batter with a little 
salt ; drop this mixture into hot &t, by the large spoon full. 
When a light brown, they are cooked sufficiently. 

T0MAT0B8 

If very ripe will skin easily ; if not, pour scalding water on 
them, and let them remain in it four or five minutes. Peel 
and put them in a stewpan, with a tablespoon full of water, if 
not very juicy ; if so, no water will be required. Put in a 
little salt, and stew them for half an hour ; then turn them in- 
to a deep dish with buttered toast Another way of cooking 
them, which is considered very nice by epicures, is to put them 
in a deep dish, with fine bread crumbs, crackers pounded fine, 
a layer of each alternately ; put small iHts of butter, a little 
salt and pepper on each layer — some cooks add a little nut- 
meg and sugar. Have a layer of bread crumbs on the top. 
Bake it three quarters of an hour. 

TOMATOS8 RAW. 

Tomatoes may be sliced thin, and served with salt, pepper, 
and vinegar over, for break&st ; or sliced, and strewn with su- 
gar and grated nutm^, for tea ; for dinner they may be stewed, 
or broiled, or baked* 

BOUTHKRK HODS OF BOILIKO RICB. 

Have the water boiling. Allow at least two quarts of water 
to a pint of rice; throw in a teaspoon iiill of salt; wash and 



TSQXTJLBLXSy XTO. 148 

pick deao and put in ; let it boil twenty minutes, and if not 
then dry, turn off the water, and let it stand on the coals a few 
moments, with the lid of!I The kernels will be white, and 
preferred by many. Use in the place of pudding, with a sweet 
sauce, or with meats as a vegetable. Rice b better for being 
soaked two or three hours. 



CHAPTER Xffl. 
POTTED MEATS. 

BEEF POTTED. 

Take three pounds of lean beef^ salt it two or three days wi(h 
half a pound of salt and half an ounce of saltpetre, divide it into 
pieces of a pound each and put it into an earthen pan just sui^ 
ficient to contain it ; pour in half a pint of water, cover it close 
with paste and set it in a slow oven for four hours. When 
taken from the oven pour the gravy from it into a basin, shred 
the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, 
and pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar with fresh butter, 
until it becomes a fine paste ; season it with black pepper and 
allspice, or cloves pounded, or nutmeg grated ; put it in pots, 
press it down as dose as possible, put a weight on it and let it 
stand all night ; next day, when quite cold, cover it a quarter 
of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper. 

ANOTHER. 

Take some lean beef^ rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lie 
three or four days, cut in pieces, and boil it, then beat it to a 
powder, mixing it with some &t ; add spice, put it in pots, and 
pour butter over it 

BBEV POTTED ,LIKB VENI80K. 

Take a whole thin flank of bee^ pull off the inward skin, and 
cut it across, particularly in the thickest parts, lay it for six 
hours in water, take as much saltpetre as the quantity of an 
e^, mix with about two pounds of white salt, and rub it well 



1 



POTTED MEATS. 145 

into the meat ; then sprinkle upon it nearly a pint of wine vine- 
gar, and let it lie for three or four days, turning and rubbing 
it onoe a day ; rinse it out of the brine with a pint of claret, and 
season it with cloves, mace, and nutmeg, white and Jamaica 
pepper, of each a quarter of an ounce ; bake all together with 
savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon shred together, 
and well rubbed into the cuts and slashes on the inside ; bind 
it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the daret, and 
lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake. 

BIEDB POTTED HOW TO PRESERVE WHEN THET BEGIN 

TO GROW OLD. 

When birds are sent a long way, they oflen smell so bad 
that they can hardly be borne, from the rankness of the but- 
ter. By doing them in the following way, they will be as if 
only fresh done. Set a large saucepan of clean water on the 
fire ; when it boils take off the butter at the top ; then take 
the birds, one by one, throw them into the saucepan of water 
half a minute, and take one out and dry it well, inside and out ; 
do so till they are all done, and scald your pot dean ; when 
the birds are quite cold season with mace, pepper and salt, ao- 
oording to taste, and put them down in a dose pot, with clar- 
ified butter over them. 

OHEBSB POTTED. 

Take three pounds of Cheshire cheese, and half a pound of 
the best butter, beat it in a mortar, add a ku^ glass of sack, half 
an ounce of mace beaten and sifted, mix it well, pot it, and pour 
clarified butter over it. 

CHICKEN OB POTTED HAM. 

Season some pieces of chicken with mace, doves, and pep- 
per, and bake for about two hours in a close covered pan, with 

some water, then pound them quite small. After they are 

6 10 



140 PRACTICAL COOKSRT. 

pounded, moisten "with either melted butter or the h'quor that 
they are baked in. Take equal quantities of ground mace, 
cloves and pepper, and put this with the chicken in alternate 
layers, in small earthen pots ; press them down tight, and cover 
them with lard. Ham is potted in the same way. 

GAMS OF ALL KIKDB. 

Any dressed game you may have in your larder. Pound ^ 

well in your mortar all the tender meat, free from skin and 
bone, with an equal quantity of good fat ham ; add to it some 
pounded mace, allspice, cayenne pepper, salt, white pepper and 
a few grains of powdered sugar ; if you have no ham, use an 
equal quantity of butter instead. When well pounded, rub it 
through a wire sieve ; mix it up well again, and place it tightly 
in earthen shapes ; cover each jar over with lard ; turn out 
with warm water, when required either for break&st, luncheon, 
or a second course. 

LOBBTSRS POTTED. 

Take out the meat as whole as you can, split the tail, and 
remove the gut ; if the inside is not watery add that, season 
with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves 
in the finest powder ; put a little butter at the bottom of the 
pan, and the lobsters smooth over ; bake it gently. When 
done pour the whole on the bottom of the sieve, and with a 
fork lay the pieces into potting jars, some of each sort, with 
the seasoning about it ; when cold pour clarified butter over it, 
but if not, it will be good the day af^er it is done, and if sea^ 
soned high and thickly covered with butter will keep some 
time. Potted lobsters may be used cold, or as fricasee with 
cream sauce. 

PARTRmOS POTTED. 

Let your partridges be cleaned and seasoned with mace, all* 
■pioe white pepper, and salt, powdered ; rub every part well ; 



POTRD UtATS. 



147 



thai laj^ them in a stewpan, breast downwards, putting the 
birds as dose ss possible; put plenty of butter o*er them; 
cover the pan with a coarse flour paste, and a paper, and bake. 
When coldi, put the birda into pota, and cover them with 
butter. 

PiQKONB pomn. 
Be Mteful that they are fteah ; dean, and saaaon them with 



for the purpose, beat it to paste, 
per, and mace pounded, pot it, 




te, ^il bulter, salt, whit^|>ep- ' 
aqftour darified butter ove^T 



ANOTRIK. 

pound of lean veal, put It into a stewpan, with 
of a lemon, pepper, salt, aifti 
dnnamon, and mushroom 
itity of each, a little thyme, savory, a?J' 
kped fine ; stew them ten minutes, then poQnd' 
id of the mellow part of a boiled tongue beaten 
a pound of ooM fresh butter ; 



jc all well to- 



148 PRAOTXOAL COOKSRT. 

gether, with two egg^ well beaten, then press the mixture down 
tight in small pots, cover them with paper, and put them into 
a moderate oven; bake twenty minutes, then pour over them 
clarified butter. 

VEHISON POTTBD. 

Put the venison into a pan, and pour red wine over it, and 
cover it with a pound of butter ; put a paste over the pan ; set 
it in the oven to bake. When done take the meat out of the 
gravy, beat it well with the butter that has risen to the top, 
add more if neoesBarj, season with pepper, salt, and maoe, 
pounded ; put into pots, set them in the oven fyt a few minutes ; 
when oold oover with clarified butter. 



'■"*■ a-— 



\ 



»» 



/ 
/ 



<. 






/>; 



^v 

r' 




CHAPTER XIV. 

PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, TARTLETS, 
PUFFS. ETO. 

Thi gnatest posable cleaoIiuMa and nicety atould be ob 
served b makii^ pastrf . The slab or board, paste-rollen, iJtu, 
cutters, stamps, everything, in &ot, used for it, and esped&lly 
the handa, should be equally free from the slight«3t aoil or par- 
ticle of dusL Tlie more expeditiously the finer kiuda of crust 
are made and dbpatched to the oveu, and the less they are 
touched, the better. Much of their excellence depends upon 
the baking, also ; they should have a sufficient degree of heat to 
raiae them quickly, but not so fierce a one as to oolor 
them too much before they are done, and still less to bum 
them. The oven door should remain doeed after tbey are put 



150 PRAOnOAL OOOKERT. 

in, and not be removed until the paste is set Large raised 
pies require a steadilj sustained heat, and to insure this, the 
oven should be made very hot, then deared, and dosel j shut 
from half to a whole hour before it is used, to concentrate the 
heat 

In mixing paste, the water should be added gradually, and 
the whole gently drawn together with the fingers, until suffident 
has been added, when it should be lightly kneaded until it is as 
smooth as possible. When carelessly made, the sur&ce is of^ 
ten lefl covered with small dry crumbs or lumps, or the water 
is poured in heedlessly in so large a proportion that it becomes 
necessary to add more flour to render it workable in any way ; 
and this ought particularly to be avoided when a certain weight 
of all the ingredients has been taken. 

PX77F PASTS FOR PATTIES OR FIRST 00UR8B DISHBB. 

Take one pound of butter, salt or fresh, and one pound of 
flour. Put your flour upon your board, work in with your 
hands lightly a quarter of the butter ; then add water suflicient 
to make it the stiflbess or soflness of the remaining butter ; 
each should be the same substance ; work it up smooth, then 
roll it out lengthwise half an inch thick ; place the remainder 
of the butter cut in slices half way on the paste ; dust flour 
lightly over it, and double it up ; press it down with your roll- 
ing-pin and let it lie a few minutes, then roll it three times, 
thinner each time, letting it lie a few minutes between each roll, 
and keep it fre& from sticking to the board or rolling-pin. 

VERT BUPKRIOR BUST 0RU8T. 

Strip the skin entirely from some fresh veal or beef kidney 
suet ; chop, and then put it into the mortar, with a small quan- 
tity of pure flavored lard or butter, and pound it perfectly 
smooth ; it may then be used for crust in the same way that 
butter is, in making pufl* paste, and in this form will be found 



PIIB, PITDDIVO*, XTO. 151 

a most excellent substitute for it, for hot pies or tarts. It is 
not quite so good for those which are to be served cold. Eight 
ounces of suet pounded with two of butter, and worked with 
the fingers into a pound of flour, will make an exceedingly good 
short crust ; but for a very rich one, the pibportion must be 
increased. 

Good short crust : flour, one pound ; suet eight ounces ; but- 
ter, two ounces ; salt, half a teaspoon full. Richer crust : suet, 
sixteen ounces; butter, four ounces; flour, one pound and 8 
half; salt, one small teaspoon full. 

PASTE FOR BORDERS OF DISHBS. 

Six or eight yolks of eggs, a few drops of water, a little salt ; 
keep mixing in flour until so stiff you can scarce work it, beat 
it and work quite smooth, and keep it moist until you require 
it; then roll it out quite thin, and cut your patterns, placing 
upon your dishes before it gets too dry, dipping them on the 
bottom. Edge in white of eggs. 

FANCY PASTRY. 

Use some fancy cutter, and use the second paste, cutting each 
piece a quarter of an inch thick, egg them and glaze them, and 
bake them a light brown ; when cold put different colored 
sweetmeats, such as apple jelly, red currant jelly, dsc., into de- 
vices upon the top of each piece ; dish them upon a napkin. 

SANDWICH PASTRY. 

The prepared paste you will cut into lengths about three 
inches, and a half or quarter of an inch thick, lay each piece on 
its side upon the baking sheet without paper, each an inch 
apart ; it will take twenty-four pieces to make a dish. When 
half baked, cover each piece thickly over with sifled sugar, then 
return them to the oven until getting a little colored ; take 
them out and hold a red hot shovel at a distance over them 



159 PRAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

until tbey are a beautifol gloss, then take them off upon paper 
on a dish ; q>read od» pieoe with some sort of jam, then place 
the other cup on it until all is done, and dish them (» a napkin 
round. 

BjrSWt OR BISCUIT CRUST. 

Put half a pound of flour on your board ; put into it 
the yolks of two eggs ; mix this all up so that you cannot 
see the egg and then add a good desertspoon full of fine sifted 
sugar ; work it well in the flour ; then work in about two 
ounces of butter and mix water or milk suflkient to make a 
stiff paste. Beat it with your rolling-pin well, and work it 
well with your hands until quite smooth, roll half a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, for your tarts, eith^T for slip tarts or 
covered, and glaze the covered tarts either before going into 
the oven or after ; if first, beat up a little white of egg, and 
spread it on the top of your tart, then cover it with sugar 
then gently sprinkle the sugar with water until all is damped, 
then sugar it again, and bake it in a slow fire ; notch the edge 
of your tart very fine. 

BXXF 8TXA1C PIS. 

Take some good steaks, beat them with a rolling-pin, and 
season them with pepper and salt ; fUl a dish with them, adding 
as much water as will half fill it, tiien cover it with a good 
crust, and bake it welL 

COLD VRAL OR CniOKKK FIB. 

Lay a crust into a shallow tart dish, and fill it with the fol- 
lowing mixture : Shred cold veal or fowl, and half the quan- 
tity of ham, mostly lean ; put to it a little cream ; season with 
white and cayenne pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and a small 
piece of onion, chopped as fine as possible ; cover with crust, 
and turn it out of the dish when baked, or bake the crust with 



FIX0, PUDDINafl, iTa 1&8 

a piece of bread, to keep it hollow, and warm the minoe with 
a little cream, and pour in. 

USE pn. 

This pie may be made of any fish — salmon, pike, eel, or any 
olher. Scale your fish, and cut it into pieces ; line your pie 
dish with a good crust ; put in the fish, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a little salt, some bruised spices, and a layer of butter 
on the top ; put on the crust, and bake for an hour and a half; 
when done, remove the &t, and put in a vegetable ragoftt, made 
thus : stir a little butter and flour over the fire until a pale 
brown ; moisten with half a pint of sherry, some thin soup ; 
add a few mushrooms, a little salt, and a bunch of herbs ; let 
it boil half an hour ; add the soft roes of carp, parboiled ; stew 
a quarter of an hour, and then piit the ragoCit into the pies. 
Any vegetable ragodt may be used. 

OIBLST PIS. 

For goose giblets, you must boil them a short time ; when 
cold, chop them in small pieces, and cut the gizzard, heart, and 
liver in slices ; stew them for a quarter of an hour in some 
good stock ; when cold, line your dish with veal cutlets^ or 
rump steaks ; use hard boiled eggs to this pie ; then season ; 
if to go into an imitation raised pie, thicken the giblets — ^if in 
a dish, garnish. 

PCS RAI8SD, TO BX 8SRVXD HOT, 

Make a stiff paste, as £>r raised pies, which mix with warm 
water ; when well mixed together, roll it out thin ; cut a piece 
out for the bottom, and two for the sides, according to the 
shape of the dish ; egg the edges you intend to join, and press 
them well together, so that the joining may not be seen ; shape 
it ; garnish it with leaves or festoons, according to your taste ; 
fill it nearly to the top with bran ; egg it^ and let it be baked 

G* 



154 PRACnOAL OOOXXRT. 

in a moderate oven ; when done of a light color, turn out the 
bran, and set it ready for what you Intend to put in, which may 
be cutlets of mutton, stewed with vegetables, partridge, brown 
sauce, chickens, cut up, stewed carp, or eels. 



PORK PISS, TO SAT COLD. 

R^se common boiled crust into either a round or oval fbrm, 
as you choose ; have ready the trimmings and small bits of 
pork, cut off when a h<^ is killed ; and if these are not enough, 
take the nieat off the sweet bone ; beat it well with a rolling- 
pin ; season with cayenne and white pepper, and salt, and keep 
the fat and lean separate ; put it in layers, quite close up to 
the top; lay on the lid; cut the edge smooth; round and 
and pinch it ; bake it in a slow oven, as the meat is very solid. 

The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain 
crust, and be quite as good ; observe to put no bone or water 
into pork pie ; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless 
they are cut small and pressed dose. 

VSAL OR OmOKXir AND PAR8LBT PIS. 

Gbt some alioes from the leg or neck of veal ; if the leg, 

from about the knuckle. Sea- 
son them with salt ; scald some 
picked parsley, and squeeze it 
dry ; chop it a little, and lay it 
at the bottom of the dish ; then 
put the meat, ^co, in layers ; fill 
the dish with new milk, but not 
80 high as to touch the crust ; cover it, and when baked, pour 
out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded 
cream* Chicken may be cut up, skinned, and made the same 
way. 




PIKB, PUDDXKOSy STO. 165 

FAHILT PIB ORUST. 

Work into a pound of sifted flour half a pound of sweet 
lard, or beef dripping, with a dessertspoon full of salt ; when 
thoroughly mixed, put to it enough oold water to bind it to- 
gether ; flour the paste^ab, or table, and rolling-pin ; take a 
part of the paste, and roll it to less than a quarter of an inch 
thickness. 

For the upper or outside crust of a pie, roll the paste out 
thin ; spread a bit of butter, half the size of an egg, over it ; 
fold it up, roll it out again, and cover the pie. 

Some are of the opinion that no under-crust should be made 
to apple or other fruit pie. It is always heavy, and not fit to 
eat. Place a narrow rim of paste around the edge of the 
plate, and fill with the fruit, either raw or stewed, and cover 
it The juices will be retained much better, and it will save 
flour and butter, which is no trifling consideration in these days; 
and, what is of more consequence, it saves dyspepsia, which costs 
more. Afler cutting, they are taken out with a spoon. 

M IKOK PIB. 

The best kind of meat for minoe pies is neat's tongue and 
feet Boil the meat till perfectly tender; then take it up; 
clear it from the bones and gristle ; chop it fine enough to 
strain through a sieve ; mix it with an equal weight of tart 
apples, chopped very fine. If the meat is not fat, put in a lit- 
tle suet or melted butter. Moisten the whole with cider ; 
sweeten it to the taste with sugar and very little molasses ; 
add maoe^ cinnamon, doves, and salt to the taste. If you wish 
to make your pies rich, put in wine or brandy to the taste, and 
raisins, citron, and Zante currants. The grated rind and juice 
of lemons improve the pie. Make the pies on shallow plates, 
with apertures in the upper crust, and bake them from half to 
three-quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven. 

M«ttt prefMrad far piat ia the fcUowiog oaanoir will kMj^ 



106 PRACnOAL COOEBBT. 

good seyeral months, if kept in a oool, drj place : To a pound 
of finely chopped meat, a quarter of a pound of suet, put half 
an ounce of naace, one ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce 
of doves, two teaspoons full of salt Add, if you like, the fol- 
lowing fruits : half a pound of seeded raisins, half a pound of 
Zante currants, a quarter of a pound of citron. Put in half a 
pint of French brandy or wine, three tablespoons full of mo- 
lasses, and sugar sufficient to make it quite sweet Put the 
whole in a stone ppt, and cover it with a paper wet in brandy. 
When you wish to use any of it for pies, put to what meat 
you use an equal weight of apples, pared and diopped fine. If 
not seasoned high enough, add more spice and sugar. If the 
i^ples are not tart, put in lemon juice or sour cider. 

MISOS PIB8 WITHOUT MBAT. 

Take of currants, apples, chopped fine, moist sugar, and suet, 
well chopped, a pound of each, a quarter of a pound of raisins, 
stoned and chopped small, the juice of four Seville oranges, the 
juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, and 
mace, to suit the palate, and a glass of brandy. Mix all to- 
gether ; put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. 

MINCX FIBS. 

One pound of lean bee^ bcxled tender and chopped fine ; 
one pound of beef suet ; a half pound of apples, diopped ; two 
pounds of currants ; one pound of raiaina, seeded and chopped ; 
A quarter of a pound of citroo. Add sugar, salt, nutmeg, nuiCB, 
doves, wine, and brandy to your taste. 

LXMOH MmOX FIBS. 

Take a lai^ lemon ; squeeze the juice from it, and boil the 
outside till it becomes soft enough to beat to a mash ; put to 
it three laige apples, four ounces of suet, the same of sugar, 
•od half a pound of onrrantB; add the juice of the lemon, and 



PIB8, PUDDUrOS, STO. 16/7 

some candied fruit, the same as for other pies. Make a short 
crusty and fill the patty-pans in the usual way. 

LEMON pnes. 

Pare two lemons ; take out the seeds ; chop the rind and 
pulps ; add one egg, a small piece of butter, a small teacup of 
flour, three cups of sugar, two of water. Bake in a paste. 
This quantity will make two pies. 

APPLE IflNCE PIEB. 

One pound of well washed and dried Zante currants, one 
pound of peeled and chopped apples, one pound of suet, chopped 
fine, one pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of rai- 
ffins, stoned and cut in two, the juice of four oranges and two 
lemons, with the chopped peel of one ; add of ground mace 
and allspice each a teaspoon full, and a wine-glass of brandy ; 
mix them well together, and keep it closely covered in a dry, 
cool place. Bake with two crusts, the same as mince pies. 

PUMPEIV PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin in a covered vessel until sofl enough to 
mash ; then set a cullender or sieve into a basin, and press it 
through into the basin ; when rubbed through, add to it milk 
enough to make a thin batter ; to every quart of this batter 
put four well beaten e^s, a small teacup of sugar, and a salt- 
spoon full of salt ; for each quart, grate in a nutmeg, and a 
teaspoon full of extract of lemon, and some ground ginger, if 
liked. Many prefer it without ginger. 

Line flat bottomed pie dishes with pie paste, and nearly fill 
them with the pumpkin mixture ; lay a strip of paste around 
the edge ; trim ofl* the outside neatly, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour, in a quick oven; the top of the pie should be deli- 
cately brown. Ornament to taste. 



158 PRACTICAL COOKXRT. 

PUMPKIN PIB, 

To one pound of boiled and sifted pumpkin add one pint of 
cream, a half pound of sugar, mx egg^ and spice to your taste. 

SQUASH PIES. 

Boil and sift the squash, and make them exactly like pump- 
kin pies. 

Carrot and sweet potato pies are made in the same way, 
with crackers ; eggs or rice should always be used with them. 

APPLB PDS. 

Pare, quarter, and slice the apples. If not ripe, stew them 
in just water enough to prevent burning. When soft, sweeten 
and season to the taste. When ripe, they are better not to 
be stewed before baking. Fill the pie plates ; cover with a 
thick crust, and bake fix>m half to three-quarters of an hour. 
When baked sufficiently, cut the upper crust through the cen- 
ter; remove it carefully with a broad knife; put a piece of 
butter, of the size of a walnut, into a pie ; sweeten it to your 
taste, and if the apples are not tart enough, squeeze in the 
juice of part of a lemon ; flavor the pie with either nutmeg, 
rosewater, or grated lemon peel. Apples cut into quarters, 
without paring, and stewed soil in new cider and molasses, 
make good plain pies. The apples should be strained after 
stewing, and seasoned with cinnamon or nutmeg. If made 
quite sweet, it will keep good several months. 

drud afpub ph. 

Stew the apples soft ; turn them into a pan and mash them 
fine ; add half the peel of a lemon, cut fine, or a little grated 
nutmeg, a sprinkle of salt, molaases or sugar, to make them 
quite sweet Bake them in a rich paste, a little over half an 
hoar. This will be quite as good is finsli froil 



PIBfly PUDDnrOB, BTO. 159 

OURBANT AND Q008SBSRRT PIS. 

Currants and gooseberries are the best for pies when of full 
growth, just before they begin to turn ; they are tolerably 
good when ripe. Currants, mixed with ripe raspberries or 
mulberries, make yery nice pies. Green currants and goose- 
berries for pies are not sweet enough, without the sugar is 
scalded in before they are baked, as tlie juice of the currants is 
apt to run out while they are baking, and leave the fruit dry. 
Stew them on a moderate fire, with a teacup of water to a 
couple of quarts of currants ; as soon as they begin to break, 
add the sugar, and let it scald in a tew minutes. When baked 
without stewing, put to each layer of fruit a thick layer of 
sugar. There should be as much as a quarter of a pound of 
sugar to a pint of currants, to make them sufficiently sweet 
Green currant pies are good, sweetened with molasses and 
sugar, mixed. 

ORANBXRRT PIX OR TARTS. 

Pick a quart of cranberries, free from imperfections ; put a 
pint of water to them, and put them in a stewpan, over a mod* 
erate fire ; put a pound of clean brown sugar to them, and 
stew them gently until they are all soft ; mash them with a 
silver spoon, and turn them into a dish, to become cold ; then 
make them into pies or tarts, and bake. Many persons put 
flour in cranberry pies ; it is a great mistake, as it completely 
spoils the color of the fruit. 

RHUBARB PIX. 

Cut the large stalks off where the leaves commence ; strip 
off the outside skin; then cut the stalk in pieces half an inch 
long ; line a pie dish with paste, rolled rather thicker than a 
dollar piece ; put in a layer of the rhubarb, nearly an inch 
deep ; to a quart bowl of cut rhubarb, put a large teacup of 
sugar ; strew it over, with a aaltspoon fiill of salt, and half a 
nutmeg, grated ; oover with a rich {He orust ; out a slit in the 



100 PRAOnCAL OOOKBRT. 

center ; trim off the edge with a sharp knife, and bake in a 
quick oven, until the pie loosens from the dish. 

APRICOT PIK. 

Take eighteen fine apricots ; cut them in halves^ and take 
out the stones ; place them in a dish lined with puff paste ; 
add four ounces of powdered sugar, and four ounces of butter, 
lukewarm ; then put on the upper crust ; glaze with the white 
of egg, and sprinkle sifted sugar all over, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

RED SUGAR-BEST PIE. 

Pies made of the red sugar-beet are said to be delioioafl, 
somewhat resembling rhubarb pie in flavor, though more rich 
and substantial. It is seasoned with vinegar, sugar, and spices, 
to suit the palate. The root may be used without boiling, be- 
ing chopped fine. Prepare the crust, and bake as you would 
a green apple pie. 

COOOANUT PIE. 

Grate the white part, and mix with milk. Let it boil slowly 
eight or ten minutes. To a pint and a half of cocoanut add a 
quart of milk, four eggs, half a cup of sweet cream, two spoons 
full of melted butter, a cracker, rolled fine, and half a nutmeg. 
The cocoanut should cool before the eggs and sugar are 
stewed in. Bake in a deep plate, in a quick oven. 

BUCKLE OR WHORTLBBSRRT PIS. 

Clean a quart of berries in water ; line a buttered pie dish 
with a pie paste ; put in the berries half an inch deep ; and to 
a quart of berries put a teacup of brown sugar, and half a tea> 
cup of water ; dredge a teaspoon full of flour over ; strew a 
saltspoon full of salt, and half a nutmeg, grated over ; cover 
the pie; cut a slit in the center, or make several small in- 
cisions on either side of it ; trim it off neatly with a sharp 
knife^and bake it in a quick oven forthre^uarteraof an hour. 



PR8, PUDDIVOB, XTt. 161 

TOMATO FIB. 

Take green tx}inatoes ; turn boiling wister od them, and let 
them remain in it a few minutes ; then strip off the skin ; cut 
the tomatoes in slices, and put them in deep pie plates ; sprinkle 
sugar over each layer, and a little ginger ; grated lemon peel, 
and the juice of a lemon improve the pie. Cover the pies with 
a thick crust, and bake them slowly for about an hour. 

BLAOKBBRRT PIB. 

Pick the berries clean ; rinse them in cold water, and finish 
as directed for huckleberries. 

ORBAM PIBS. 

Beat four or five e^s light ; then sdr them into a quart of 
sweet scalding cream ; add salt, a teaspoon full of the extract 
of lemon or peach water, and half a nutmeg, grated, if liked ; 
sweeten to taste ; line the dishes with pie paste, rolled quite 
thin ; set them in a quick oven for ten minutes ; then put in 
the cream nearly to fill them, and bake for half an hour. 

These pies, and also pumpkin and custard pies, may be very 
prettily ornamented, when half baked, with flowers, stars^ or 
letters, cut firom thin rolled paste ; if letters or love-knots are 
used, form them of narrow strips of paste; the cream or cus- 
tard must be firm before these are put on, otherwise they 
will sink. 

8WBBT MARLBOROUGH PDB. 

Procure sweety mellow apples ; pare and grate them. To 
a pint of the grated pulp put a pint of milk, a couple of eggs, 
two tablespoons fiill of melted butter, the grated peel of a 
lemon, and half a wine-glass of brandy. Sweeten it to the 
taste with nice brown sugar. The eggs should be beaten to a 
froth, then the sugar stirred into them, and mixed with the rest 
of the ingredients. A little stewed pumpkin, mixed with the 

11 



163 PBAOTIOAL GOOKXBT. 

apples, improves ihe pie. Bake the pie in deep plates, with- 
out an upper onist. 

PLAIN CUSTARD PIS. 

Boil a quart of milk with half a dozen peach leaves, or the 
rind of a lemon. When they have flavored the milk, strain it, 
and set it where it will boil. Mix a tablespoon full of flour, 
smoothly, with a couple of tablespoons full of milk, and stir it 
into the boiling milk. Liet it boil a minute, stirring it con- 
stantly; take it from the fire, and when cool, put in three 
beaten eggs; sweeten it to the taste; turn it into deep pie 
plates, and bake the pies directly, in a quick oven. 

OHBRRT PIK. 

Stone your cherries, that you may be sure they are free 
from worms. Lay -your paste in a deep dish, and add a good 
quantity of fruit ; fill the dish with molasses, with a hand full 
of flour sprinkled over, then a nice paste, and bake more than 
half an hour. If sugar is used, you will need water and flour. 
This makes the gravy very rich, and the pie delightful. 

LEMON PIB. 

' Boil six fresh lemons in water until a straw will penetrate 
the skin ; then take them out ; chop them fine, and take out 
the seeds ; to a pound of light brown sugar put a teacup of 
water; let it boil, skimming it clear until it is a nice syrup; 
then put in the lemon, and set it to cool ; cover a shallow 
plate with pie paste ; put in the lemon, spread out to nearly 
the edge; cover with a paste; cut a slit in the center, and 
bake. 

LBMON PUDDING. 

Take the yolks of ten eggs, a half pound of sugar, six ounces 
of butter, four tablespoons full of wine, four of cream, two of 
rosewater, two crackers, pounded very fine, the peel of three 
lemons grated, and the juice of two. Bake in a crust. 



PIES, PUBDIK08, XTO. 168 

LXMON TART. 

Make as directed for pie, and instead of a top crust, roll out 
the paste, cut it in strips, and lay it across, and bake. 

PEACH PIE. 

Peaches for pie may be ripe, but not soft ; pare them ; cut 
them up, and finish as directed for apple pies. Unripe peaches 
may be pared and stewed as directed for apple tart, and baked 
in a pie or tart. 

CORN STARCH PIE. 

To* one quart of milk put two tablespoons full of com starch, 
and two eggs. Sweeten, salt, and season to the taste. Line 
a pie plate with crusty and bake as custard. 

DIRECTIONS FOR PUDDINGa 

Puddings should be boiled in tin forms, rubbed over on the 
inside with butter ; or in muslin bags, which should be dipped 
into boiling water, and then be rubbed over on the inside with 
flour. A small pail will answer, with a doth tied over it If 
boiled in a tin form, do not let the water reach the top of it. 
If in a bag, it must be turned frequently. 

BAKED APPLE PUDDIirO. 

Twelve laige apples, stewed very dry, a quarter of a pound 
* of butter, stirred in when the apples are nearly cold, sugar 
to your taste, one wine-glass of wine and rosewater, a little 
cinnamon and nutmeg, seven eggs, two hands full of bread, 
crumbed very fine. Bake twenty minutes. Serve with sauce, 
or sugar and cream. 

BOILED APPLE PUDDING. 

Make a batter with two well beaten eggs and a pint and a 
half of milk, with a pint of wheat flour ; beat until smooth and 



1G4 PRAOnOAL OOOKSBT, 

light ; pare, quarter, and core five or six large, tender, tart ap. 
pies, and stir them into the batter, with a teaspoon full of salt ; 
tie it in a pudding-bag, and boil for two hours. Turn it out 
on a dish, and serve with sugar, butter, and nutm^ sauce. 

Huckleberries, cranberries, or other fiuit may be thus used, 
instead of apples. 

PLAIN BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Pour three pints of boiling milk to a large quart of Indian 
meal ; stir it well ; add a teacup of molasses, a little salt, and 
two tablespoons full of flour. Boil four hours. 

CORN MXAL puDDnra. 

Let two quarts of water come to a boil ; then add a table- 
spoon fiill of salt ; take off the light scum from the top ; haye 
sweet, fresh yellow or white com meal ; stir it in gradually 
and thoroughly until it is as thick as you can stir easily, or 
until the stick will stand in it ; stir it a while longer ; let the 
fire be gentle ; when it is done enough, it will bubble or puff 
up ; turn it into a deep basin ; this is eaten cold or hot, with 
milk or with butter, and syrup or sugar, or with meat and 
gravy, the same as potatoes or rice. When cold, it may be 
cut into slices and fried. 

XVS*8 PUDDINO. 

Six eggs, six large apples, pared and chopped, six ounces of 
bread, crumbed fine, dx ounces of currants, six ounces of sugar. 
Three hours will boil it 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Half a pound of raisins, half a pound of currants, half a 
pound of bread, grated, half a pound of apples, chopped, four 
eggs, half a nutmeg, a wineglass of brandy, a quarter of a 
pound of suet Boil three hours. 



piKB, PDUDrasB, no. 



KKOLIBH FIDH PCDDISG. 



Ooe pound of flour, one pound of suet, one and a half pounda 
<f cuiraots, one pound of Bugar, ten e^a, two apoous full of 
milk, two Dutm^s, one gill of brandy and wine, mixed, citron. 
Boil NX hours. This quaotitj vill make two [ 
quart bowls. 



Ths oocoanut must be grated tbe flat wajr ; equal weight of 
loaf sugar, jolks of six eggs to one nut; six ^xxms full of 
rosewater, sugar melted in the roaewater, and cocoanut put in 
and aimmered over fine coals till the syrup is nearly dried 
up; stir it constantly, or it will bum. Bake in a paste. 

SUNDUtLAIID PDDDINS. 

Boil three pints of milk, seven spowis full of flour stirred 
into tbe milk, then seven well beaten eggs ; strain it Boil it 
. an hour, and serve with cold aauoe. 

OCSTARD PnODIHO BAKBD. 

One pint of milk, eight e^s, two spoons fiill of flour, two of 
rosewater, half a nutmeg, a little aalt, and sugar to the taste. 



eggs, four tablespoons 
1 portion of cinnamon, 
idd enough of the pulp 
tatter; sweeten; pour 
r and a quarter ; serve 



f flour, s teaspoon full 
em with a pint and a 
jatcB ; pour the batter 



166 PRAOnCAL COOEBRT. 

into a well buttered basin or mould ; tie it tiglit with a cloth, 
and boil it two hours and a hal£ Or it may be baked ; three- 
quarters of an hour will be sufficient. Stoned raisins or cur- 
rants may be added. 

BATTKR FDDDIHO BOILSD. 

Six e^a, tax lai^e spoons fiill of flour ; beat your eggs, and 
Btir your flour graduoliy into them ; then stir in a quart of 
milk, and a little salt. Boil one hour. If boiled in a bag, 
flour it well ; if in a mould, be sure and have it fuU. 



BATTER PUDDIMS, WITH OR V 

Beat up six ^^s; put about a pint of milk in a basn ; atir 
in by degrees about half a pound of flour ; add a little salt; 
mix in your eggs with a gill of cream ; etnun it all through a 
very fine sieve ; butter your mould ; tie a cloth over the 
mould. Send up a sweet sauce, or melted butter, or hot cur< 
nmt Jelly ; if suet, add to your eggs some sifted sugar. 

BARLsr PUDDorOi 
To a pound of pearl barley, well washed, add three quarts 
of new milk, half a pound of double relined sugar, and a nut- 
meg, grated; then bake it in a deep pan. Remove it ftom 
the oven ; beat up six ef^ ; mix well bother; pour it into 
a buttered dish, and bake it again for an hour. 



Soak two or thrt 
cream, or good mil 
sugar, orange flow( 
glass of white wini 
put the pudding in 
hour. Serve with 



PISS, PUBDINOB, XTC. 167 

?LAIN BAKXD BREAD PUDDING. 

Pound rusked bread fine ; to five heaping tablespoons full 
of it put a quart of milk, three beaten eggs, three tablespoons 
full of rolled sugar, a teaspoon full of salt, half a nutmeg, and 
three tablespoons fiill of melted butter. Bake it about an 
hour. It does not need any sauoe. 

XOONOMIOAL PUDDING. 

Keep jour pieces of bread, and dry them nicely ; when 
enough are collected, soak them in milk over night ; in the 
morning drain out all the milk you can through a cullender ; 
add to the bread some sugar, and a little salt, with some scalded 
raisins ; tie it in a bag, and boil five or six hours. Serve with 
sweet sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Take a large carrot ; boil it soft ; bruise it in a marble mor- 
tar, and mix with it a spoon full of biscuit powder, four yolks 
and two whites of e^;s, a pint of cream, a large spoon full of 
rose or orange flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, two ounces 
of sugar ; bake it in a shallow dish ; turn it out, and serve 
with sugar over. 

CUSTARD PUDDING ^BOILXD. 

Take a pint of cream, six eggs, well beaten, two spoons full 

of flour, half a nutmeg, grated, and salt and sugar to taste ; 

mix them together ; butter a cloth, and pour in the batter ; 

^ie it up ; put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it an 

hour and a half. Serve with melted butter. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Pare and slice a quantity of apples. Take the crust from a 
loaf of bread ; cut the rest in slices, and butter them. Butter 
a pie dish, and put the slices all round, then a layer of ap- 
plM^ f^rinkled with kmon pMl, chopped v«ry fine, and brown 



( 

i 



168 PRACTICAL COOKKKT, 

sugar; a layer of bread and butter, alternately, until the di»Ji 
iafall. Squeeze over the whole the juice of two lemons ; cover 
the di^ with the crusts of bread and tbe apple parings, to pre- 
vent its browning too muck Bake an hour and a quarter ; 
then take off the crust and peela, and turn it out of the dish. 
Serve with sugar and cream, or butter. 



Gut a Bufiidetit numberof thin slices of white bread te cover 
the bottom and line the eidea of a baking dish, lirst rubbing it 
thickly with butl«r; put thin slices of apples into the dish, in 
layers, till the dish is full, strewing butter and sugar between. 
In the meantime, aoak aa many thin Alices of bread as will cover 
the whole, in warm milk, over which place a plate and a weight 
to keep the bread close upon tlie applea; let it bake slowly 
for three hours ; for a middle sized disb, you should use half 
a pound of butter for the whole. 

OITKOII FDDDINQ. 

Take a pint of cream, and the yolks of wx eggs ; beat them 
tf^ther; add four ounces of sugar, the same of citron, shred 
fine, two spoons full of Qour, and a little nutmeg. Place this 
mixture in a deep dish; bake it in a quick oven, and turn 
it out 

OnKBANT PUDOItia. 

Take a pound of currants, a pound of suet, five e^s, four 

spoons full of Bour, half a nutmeg, a teaspoon fiill of ginger, a 

1e powdered sugar, and a little salt Boil this for three 



CHIRRT PUDDtHO. 

Jaa t, well buttered basin with a paste made of butter, or 
t, chopped small, robbed into flour ; put in picked i^erriee; 



FIBS, puDDorae, kto. 169 

cover the top with a crust, and boil it Fruit puddings may 
be boiled in a doth, without a basin. 

FLOUR PUDDINO. 

Into a pint and a half of sifted flour stir gradually, so that it 
may not be lumpy, a quart of milk. Beat seven eggs and put 
in, together with a couple of tablespoons full of melted butter, 
and a teaspoon full of salt. Grate in half of a nutmeg ; add, 
if you want the pudding very rich, half a pound of raisins. 
They should not be put into a baked pudding till it has been 
cooking long enough to thicken, so that the raisins will not sink 
to the bottom of it. A pudding made in this manner is good 
either baked or boiled. It takes two hours to boil, and an hour 
and a quarter to bake it When boiled, the bag should not 
be more than two-thirds full, as flour puddings swell very 
much. Boil constantly. If the water boils away so as to 
leave any part of the bag uncovered, more boiling water should 
be added. When the pudding has boiled eight or nine min- 
utes, the bag should be turned over, otherwise the puddmg 
will be heavy. Flour puddings should be eaten as soon as 
cooked, as they M\ directly. Serve them up with rich sauce. 

DRIXD APPLE PUDDIKQ ^BOILBD. 

Boil dried apples nearly done. Save a teacup of the juice 
of the apple, for a sauce. Chop them, and mix with soaked 
bread, and boil in a bag. Make a sauce of melted butter, 
sugar, and flour, with enough of the apple juice to give it the 
flavor of wine, and spice with nutmeg. It is excellent 

JFNNT LIHD PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one spoon full of butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, one pint of flour, two and a half teaspoons full 
of baking powder. Bake three quarters of an hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

H 



170 PBAOTIOAL OOOKSRT. 

LXMON PUDDING. 

Boil four lemona, peeled thin till they are soft, rub th<^m 
through a hair sieve, and preserve the fine pulp ; pour somo 
boiling milk or cream, in ^'hich a stick of cinnamon has been 
boiled, over a pound of Naples buiscuits, two ounces of fresh 
butter, and a little nutmeg. When cold, add to them the pulp 
of the lemons and eight eggs well beaten ; mix all together, and 
sweeten. Make a good puff paste, edge a dish with it, put in 
the mixture, ornament the top with strings of paste, and bake it 
in a moderate oven. 

BAKBD MARROW PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of marrow, chopped fine, six sponge 
biscuits broken up, a few currants or raisins stoned, some can- 
died orange, lemon, and citron, cut into small dice, a little nut- 
meg, grating of half a lemon peel ; butter a pie or tart dish. 
Spread your cakes, marrow, alternately with the peels, five eggs 
broken in a basin, leave out two whites, beat them up, put half 
a pint of cream to it, and a cup of milk, sweeten with pounded 
sugar, according to the taste. Put a paste thin to your dish. 

CBICKXN PUDDING. 

Cut one into eight pieces, and half a pound of baoon, cut into 
slices; season with one teaspoon full of salt, half of pepper, two 
of chopped parsley, a little thyme, and one captain's biscuit, 
well broken; fill the pudding with the meat; add half pint of 
milk ; boil for one hour and a half; serve with melted butter 
over, and chopped parsley on the top. 

MUTTON PUDDING. 

Cut some large slices from the upper part of an underdone 
leg of mutton, line a basin with a good suet crust, and put in 
the meat ; season well with pepper and salt, and an onion finely 
•bred* Cover up with the paste, and boll it two hours. 



Pin, PUDDIHOB, BTO. 171 

MUFFTK PUDDIKO WITH DRIXD OHERRISS* 

Put fcAir muffins into a pan, strain over them a pint and a 
half of milk boiled for ten minutes, a bit of lemon peel, and 
sugar to suit the taste. When cold, mash them with a wooden 
spoon, add half a pound of dried cherries, a gill of brandy, a 
little grated nutmeg, two ounoes of aweet almonds blanched 
and pounded very fine, and six e^s well beaten ; m\x all to- 
gether, and boil in a basin, or bake it in a di^ lined with paste. 

OATMBAL PUDDING. 

Take a pint of the best fine oatmeal, pour a quart of boiling 
milk over it, and let it soak all night ; the next day put it in a 
basin just lai^e enough to hold it, add two eggs beaten, and a 
little salt, cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour 
and a half It may be eaten hot, with oold butter and salt ; or 
cold, sliced and toasted. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

To half a pound of lump sugar press the juice of three Se- 
ville oranges ; take half aponnd of butter melted thick and the 
yolks of ten e^s well beaten ; mix all thoroughly together with 
four ounces of blanched ahnonds well pounded with a little 
orange-flower water, and the peel of one of the oranges grated. 
Place a thin crust in the bottom of the dish. 

OLD ENGLISH CliRlSTMAS PLUM I'l'DDING. 

To make what is termed a pountl pudding, take of ratsinb 
well-stoned, currants thoroughly washed, one pound each ; chop 
a pound of suet very finely and mix with them, add a quarter 
of a pound of flour, or bread veiy finely crumbled, three ounces 
of sugar, one ounce and a half of grated lemon peel, a blade of 
mace, half a small nutmeg, half a dozen e^s well beaten ; work 
it well together, put it into a cloth, tie it firmly — ^allowing room 
to swell — ^and boil, not less than five hours. It should not h% 
suffered to stop boiling. 



172 ^ PBAOnOAL OOOKKBT. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Take two pounds of potatoes, wash, boil and mash them ; 
when oold add a pint of new milk, three eggs well beaten, two 
ounces of moist sugar, and a little nutmeg. Bake it 

DKRBT8HIRI PUDDING. 

Mix gradually two tablespoons full of flour with a pint of 
milk, boil it till thick, and when cold add three ounces of but- 
ter beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, the 
rind of a lemon grated, the jolks of five and whites of three 
e^s, and a little salt ; mix all well together, put it in a dish 
lined round with paste, and bake it in a quick oven. This pud- 
ding is very nice cold. 

PUDDINGS IN HASTK. 

To grated bread add suet shred, a few currants, the yolks of 
four e^s and the whites of two, some grated lemon peel, and 
ginger ; mix and form it into balls, about the size and shape 
of an egg, with a little flour. Put them into boiling water, and 
boil them for twenty minutes. 

QUAKING PUDDING. 

Take a quart of cream, scald it^ and when nearly cold, put 
to it four eggs well beaten, a spoon full and a half of flour, some 
nutmeg and sugar ; tie it tight in a buttered doth, boil it an 
hour, and turn it out carefully. Serve with melted butter, a 
little wine and sugar. 

QUINCK PUDDING. 

Take as many ripe quinces as will yield a pound of pulp ; 
to this add half a pound of powdered sugar, a little cinnamon ; 
mix them well, and add them to the yolks of eight eggs beaten 
ina pintof cream; stir all together, and boil it in a floured doth. 



FU, PUBonreB, era 178 

POTATO PUDDING. 

One pound of boiled potatoes, mashed with a little m&k, 
and strained, half a pound of sugar, six eggs, one lemon grated. 
Bake an hour. 

BOILED ALMOND PUl^DING. 

Blanch one pound of almonds ; beat them in a mortar ix> a 
smooth paste, with three teaspoons full of rosewater. Add 
one gill of wine, one pint of cream, one gill of milk, one e^ 
one spoon full of flour. Boil half an hour. 

BOILXD PLUM PUDDING. 

Take one pound of good suet ; cut it in small pieces and 
add one pound of currants, and one of stoned raisins, eight eggs, 
one nutmeg, grated, one pound of flour, and one pint of milk ; 
to the e^;a, previously well beaten, add one-half the milk, and 
mix well together ; stir in the flour, spice, fruit, and suet, and 
the remainder of the milk. Boil from four to five hours. 

ORXAM PUDDING. 

Beat six eggs to a froth ; then mix with them three table- 
spoons full of powdered white sugar, and the grated rind of a 
lemon. Mix a pint of milk with a pint of flour, and a tea- 
spoon fiiU of salt; then add the eggs and sugar. Just before 
it is baked, stir in a pint of thick cream. Bake it either in 
buttered cups, or a pudding dish. 

OUSTABD PUDDING. 

Stir a quart of milk very gradually into half a pint of flour ; 
mbc it free from lumps, and put to it seven eggs, beaten with 
three tablespoons full of sugar, a teaspoon full of salt, and half 
of a grated nutmeg. Bake it three-quarters of an hour. 

BOtLBD CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Beat up six eggs, and add to them a pint of very good milk 
or oream j sugar and nutmeg to taste. Butter the baain you 



174 PKAOnOAL COOKBBT. 

boil it in, and dip the doth you tie over into boiling water, and 
flour it Twenty minutes will boil it Serre widi sauce. 



DKLIOATB RICX PUDDINa. 

Boil half a pound of rice in three pints of milk, until the milk 
is absorbed by the rioe; turn it out of the sauoepan, and when 
cold, add to it three well beaten egga^ with a little nutmeg and 
sugar. Put it into a buttered basin^ and boil an hour. This^ 
made in smaller proportions, is a light and pleasant pudding 
for an' invalid* A bit of cinnamon may be boiled with the 
milk and rica 

BOLT POLT. 

Make a paste crust; roll it rather thin; chop apples, and 
spread them, with some chopped lemon peel, over it; then b^ 
gin at one side and roll it up ; tie it in a puddbg doth, and 
boil fi>r two hours ; unless very small, serve with wine sauce. 

In the place of apples, any other fruity jdly, or preserves 
may be used. 

OEBMAV TOAST — ^FOB DSSSBBT. 

put in thidc slices a loaf of stale bread — baker's is best ; 
lay it in a deep dish. Beat four eggs, and add to a quart of 
milk ; pour the liquid over the br^Eul ; let it stand until it is 
all absorbed ; then lay the slices on a buttered griddle, and 
fry them to a delicate brown. Serve hot, with rich sauce. 
Bread prepared in the same way and baked, b very good. 

m 

Bid PUDDINO WITH OVRBANTS. 

Boil for half an hour five ounces of whole rice, in a doth, 
"With room to swell ; then take it up ; add five ounces of cur- 
rants, three tablespoons full of suet, shred fine, and two egga^ 
well beaten; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a hal£ 



riKS, piTDDnros, ito. ITS 

OROUND RICB PUBDIira. 

In a pint of new milk boil two dessertspoons full of ground 
rice, adding a small piece of lemon peel and a little cinnamon. 
Keep it stirring while boiling, and let it boil ten minutes ; 
then let it cool ; when cold, add sugar to taste, a couple of 
well beaten es^, and some nutmeg. Line your dish with a 
puff paste; pour in your rice, and bake a light brown. 

RICB PUDDINQ WITH FRUIT. 

Swell some rice in a little milk, over the fire; then mix it 
with either currants or gooseberries, scalded, or apples, pared 
and quartered, raisins, or black currants ; add an egg to the 
rice, to bind it. Boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of sago; wash it in several waters (warm,) 
then boil it with a pint of milk and a little cinnamon, stirring 
it often till it becomes thick ; pour it into a pan, and beat it 
up with a half pound of fresh butter ; add the yolks of eight 
eggs, and the whites of four, beaten separately, a little flour, 
half a glass of white wine, and sugar to liking ; mix all well 
and boil it. Serve with sweet sauce. 

BAGO PUDDIKG. 

Three pints of milk and a cup of sago, boiled together till 
tihe sago is tender, with a stick of cinnamon ; while it is hot, 
stir in a small piece of butter, four eggs, sugar to your taste, 
and a little rosewater or lemon. Serve with powdered sugar. 

BUST PUDDING. 

Chop half a pound of beef suet extremely flne ; add the 
same quantity of flour, two eggs, well beaten, a small quantity 
of pounded and sifted sugar, and a little salt ; mix well to- 
gether with milk to a tolerable oonsistency, and either bake or 
boUit 



176 FRAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

BWKBTMXAT PUin>INO. 

Take <»)e ounce each of orange and lemon peel, and citron ; 
slice them very thin; line a dish with puff paste; lay the 
peel at the bottom ; mix the yolks of seven eggs with the 
whites of two eggs, adding five ounces of sugar ; pour it over 
the sweetmeats; put it into an oven well heated, and bake 
thirty-five minutesw 

TAPIOOA PUDDIKO. 

Soak fear tablespoons full of tapioca in a quart of milk all 
night; then add a spoon full of brandy, some lemon peel, and 
a little spice ; boil them gently; add four eggs, the whites well 
beaten, and a quarter of a pound of sugar ; bake it 

TRXACLB PUDDING. 

To a pound of stoned raisins add three quarters of a pound 
of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of milk, a tablespoon 
full of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice ; stir all up 
well, and boil it four hours in a floured doth. 

YKRMICXLLI PUDDI50. 

Take four ounces of vermicelli ; boil it soft in a pint of new 
milk, with a stidc or two of cinnamon ; add half a pint of 
thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same quantity 
of sugar, and the yolks of four e^^ well beaten; putinadish, 
and bake it 

TAPIOCA PUDDINO. 

Wash two large spoons full of tapioca, and put to a pint of 
milk ; the grated rind of a lemon, a small piece of butter, and 
sugar to your taste. Boil it an hour; then add three well 
beaten eggs. Put it in a dish, and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with sauce, or sugar and cream. 



pm, PUBDnroSy xto. 177 

▲PPLS TAFIOOA PUDDINO. 

Soak a oofiee cup full of tapioca in a quart of lukewarm 
water four hours. Pare and slice apples sufiicient to nearlj 
fill your dish ; put sugar and spice to your taste. Pour oyer 
the tapioca, and bake an hour. Serve with sugar and cream. 

IfHrUTX PUDDIFG. 

Put a pint and a half of milk on die fire. Mix five lai^ge 
tablespoons fiill of either wheat or rye flour, smoothly, with 
half a pint of milk, a teaspoon fiiU of salt, and half of a grated 
nutmeg. When the milk boils, stir in the mixed flour and 
milk. Let the whole boil for one minute, stirring it constantly ; 
take it from the fire; let it get lukewarm; then add three 
beaten eggs. Set it back on the fire, and stir it constantly un- 
til it thickens^ Take it from the fire as soon as it boils. Serve 
with sauce. 

CORN PUDDINGS. 

Grrate sweet green com; to three teacups of it, when 
grated, put two quarts of milk, eight eggs, a teaspoon full of 
salt, half a teacup of melted butter, and a grated nutmeg* 
Bake the pudding an hour ; serve it up with sauce. 

ORAOKKR PmODIKO. 

Mix ten ounces of finely pounded crackers with a wine-glass 
of wine, a little salt, and half a nutmeg, three or four table- 
spoons full of sugar, and two of melted butter. Beat eight 
eggs to a fi'oth ; mix them with three pints of milk, and turn 
them on the rest of the ingredients. Let it remain till the 
crackers soften ; then bake it. 

APPLKS nr BATTBB. 

Pare and core several small sized apples ; set them in a 
deep dish ; make a rich batter, and pour it over them ; bake 
in a quick oven for one hour ; serve with wine sauce. 

H* 12 



178 ntAonoix ooonotr. 

CORN 8TAB0H PUBDIHO. 

Cora starah makes an excellent pudding. Boil the milk in 
a pan, oyer a kettle of boiling water. For each quart of milk 
take six tablespoons full of starch, rubbed smooth in a little 
milk and three well beaten eggs. Pour them into the boiling 
milk, adding a little salt, and stir constantly for three minutes, 
and then tura it out for the table, or mould it in teacups, to 
be eaten cold. Sweetened cream with nutmeg is the best 
sauce. ' 

BUMMBR SNOWBALLS. 

Simmer half a pound of rice until it is tender ; th^i strain 
it. Take five or six apples, of middliDg size ; pare them, and 
take out the core with a small knife or apple scoop, but do 
not cut them into secdons. Into the hollow made bj cutting 
out the core, jput sugar and a little allspice. Divide the rice 
into a portion for each apple, and with the hand lay each por- 
tion equally over an apple, and tie them separately in a small 
doth, and boil an hour. These dumplings or snowballs may 
be served with sweet sauce, or eaten with simple sugar, or 
mohases. 

8P0KGB PUDDIKQ. 

These puddings must be mtade with the greatest exacdtude. 
Cream a quarter of a pound of butter, and add four eggs, the 
whites and yolks, two ounces of white, pounded sugar, and 
two tablespoons full of flour ; beat the whole up slowly ; fill 
six small cups, and bake them exactly twenty minutes. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

Biscirrr puddinob. 

Mix together a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, with 
the same quantity of brown sugar and butter ; five eggs, leav- 
ing out two whites, and then a quarter of a pmt of milk ; bake 
twenty minutes m caps, as before. 



POM, pin>Diirofl, na ITO 

BAEKD Iin>IAN PUBDIKQ, 

Seven tablespoons full of meal, one of flour ; wet with a 
quart of milk. Thicken it over the fire like mush. Take it 
from the fire, and add a teacup of molasses^ a little salt, and 
bake three quarters of an hour. 

BPOTTBD DICK. 

Put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, half a 
pound of beef suet, half ditto of currants, two ounces of sugar, a 
little cinnamon ; mix with two eggs and two gills of milk ; 
boil in either mould or doth for one hour and a half; serve 
with melted butter, and a little sugar over. 

BOILBD INDIAN PUDDINO. 

Boil a quart of milk, and stir in Indian meal till it is nearly 
as thick as you can stir it with a spoon ; then add a teaspoon 
full of salt, a cup full of molasses, a teaspoon full of ginger or 
ground cinnamon, and cold milk enough to make a thin bat- 
ter. Boil in a thick bag four hours. Care should be taken 
that the water does not stop boiling while the pudding is in. 
A dish made in this way, with the addition of a quart of 
chopped sweet apples, and baked from four to six hours, will 
be found delicious when served up hot, and eaten with sauce 
made of drawn butter, nutmeg, and wine. 

BOILING MUSH. 

It is very common to make mush by boiling only a few 
minutes. This is all wrong. It should be boiled one or two 
hours, and if longer, will do no harm. It will be necessary to 
occasionally add some hot water, to keep the mass thin, and 
prevent burning ; and it must be oflen stirred. 

APPLE DUMPUNCKSI. 

Pare tart, mellow apples; take out the cores^ and fill the 
bolee with sugar. Make a good pie cruet, and endoee eeeh 



180 PftAOnCAL OOOKSBT. 

apple in pieoes of the crast Tie them up in pieces of cloth, 
well floured on the inside. Put into boiling water, and boll 
an hour, without stopping. Serve with pudding sauoe, or but- 
ter and sugar. 

Ripe peaches, rhubarb, jelly, dsa, maj be substituted for 
apples. 

OXFORD DUMPLINQS. 

Soak eight ounces of biscuit, pounded fine, in just suflioient 
mUk to cover it. When soft, stir in three beaten ^gs, a tea- 
spoon full of flour, and a quarter of a pound of Zante currants. 
Grate in half a nutmeg, and do up into balls the size of an egg. 
Try till a light brown. 

SIMPLX DKS8XRT8 FOR SUMMER. 

Take su e^^ and beat them separately. With the yolks, 
a quart of milk, sugar, essence of lemon, or rosewater, 
make a custard. Beat the whites very stiff; have ready a 
kettle of boiling water, with a skimmer ; dip in slices of the 
whites just long enough to harden ; then lay them on a sieve 
till cold ; put the custard mto a dish, and crisp and put the 
whites lightly over the top. Set on the ice, if oonvoiient, till 
wanted. 

AVOTHSR. 

Put plain boiled rice into a mould ; when oold, turn it out^ 
and pour soft custard over it 

AVOTHBR. 

A quarter of a pound of sugar, and the same of butter, 
rubbed to a cream ; pour over a small teacup of boiling wa- 
ter ; put it in a lined saucepan, over the Are, and stir till it 
simmers. Have ready a pint of fresh strawberries ; stir them 
in carefully, and let them cook a moment. Put them into a 
deep dish, and stand them on the ice. Serve with oold rice, 
oraago. 



voBj PiTDDniofl, no. 181 

OURD. 

To a qtiart of milk put a lai^ tablespoon full of rennet 
wine; let it stand till it turns; then set it on the ice till 
wanted. Serve with sugar and cream, and sweetmeats, if 
you choose. 

TLOATIHG ISLAKD. 

Beat the whites of six eggs, and a tablespoon full of white, 
powdered sugar, the same of currant jelly, to a stiff froth. Put 
a pint of cream into a deep dish, and pile the firoth on lightly. 
It should not stand long. 

TXAST DUHPLnrOS. 

Make a dough with a tablespoon full of yeast, a little salt, 
and warm milk, and flour ; set it to rise. When light, flour 
your hands, and make it in balls the size of a common apple ; 
throw them into boiling water, and cover close. In half an 
hour take them up with a skimmer ; serve plain, with butter 
or with a sweet sauce. 

LXMOV DUMPLINGS. 

The juice of a lemon and the rind, chopped very fine, two 
eggs, a quarter of a pound of beef suet, a quarter of a pound 
of loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of bread, grated. To be 
boiled twenty minutes, in a doth. 

LIGHT DOUGH DUMPLINGS. 

Take a pound of dough ; make it into small balls, the size 
of eggs ; boil in plenty of water, and use it for roast or boiled 
meats, or serve ¥rith butter and sugar, or with gravy. 

TARTLXT8. 

Cut your paste after rolling it thin with a fluted cutter as 
large as your tartlet pan may be round ; place each piece 
even into the pan ; press it down with your fuiger ; then put 
mto each, either a piece of square crust of bread cut into dice 



182 PRAOnOAL OOOKXRT. 

in the middle of each, or a very litde piece of jam ; you will 
htfve to add more after they are baked ; sift some fine sugar 
oyer them ; bake them a light color. 

IPPLB TART. 

Use good tart apples. Peel, slice and stew them with a tea- 
cup each of water and sugar to a quart of sliced ^ples ; add 
half a nutmeg grated, a saltspoon full of salt, and a little grated 
lemon peel, or lemon extract, or half a teaspoon full of ground 
cinnamon ; set them to become cold ; line small pie plates 
with rich pie or light puflf paste ; put in the stewed apples half 
an inch deep ; roll out some of the paste ; wet it over slightly 
with the yolk of an egg, beaten with a little milk, and a tea- 
spoon full of sugar ; cut in strips the width of a finger, and 
lay it in bars or diamonds across the tart ; lay another strip 
around the edge, trim off the outside neatly with a sharp knife, 
and bake it in a quick oven until the paste loosens from the 
dish. 

Tarts may be made of other firuits and sweatmeats in a sim- 
ilar manner. 

bird's nest FUDDINa. 

Pare and core six or eight good tart apples, so as to leave 
them whole, and place them in a pudding dish. Take a quart 
of milk, nine ^gs, and sufiicient flour to make a thin batter ; 
pour it on and cover the apples ; bake it in an oven till it is 
done, and eat with butter and sugar or saooe, 

APPLB TART — ^AVOTHKR. 

Take some good baking apples, pare, core, and cut them 
into small pieces ; place them in a dish lined with puff paste ; 
strew over pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, doves, and 
lemon peel chopped small ; then add a layer of apples, then 
apioe, and so on till the didi ia M ; pour a glass and a half 



FOBS, PUDDOrOS, VTO. 163 

of white wine over the whole ; oorer with puff paste, and bake 
it When d<me, raise the crust, stir in two ounces of fresh 
butter, and two eggs well beaten ; replace the crusty and serve 
either hot or cold. 

APBIOOr TART. 

Take some apricots, out them in two and break die stones ; 
put them into paste widi sugar, a small quantity of preserved 
lemon, and a few of the kernels; dose it, sprinkle sugar over and 
glaze it If the apricots are not ripe, boil them a short time 
in water, and drain them well. 

APBICOT SWKBTMXAT FOR TABTS. 

Take a pound c^ ripe apricots, remove the stones, break 
Ihem and blandi the kernels ; add one pound and a half of 
green gages, and one pound and a quarter of lump sugar ; sim- 
mer it until the fruit becomes a jam. It must not boil, and 
must be kept well skimmed ; clarified sugar will be found the 
best to use for this preserve. 

CHXRRT TART. 

Line the sides of a dish with good crust ; strew in sugar ; 
fill it with picked cherries, and put sugar at the top ; red cur- 
rants maj be added, if liked ; cover with crust, and bake. 

CURRANT TART. 

Line a dish with pufi^paste ; strew powdered avgar over the 
bottom of it; then put in sJf<>.mate layers of cuirants care- 
fiilly picked, and sugar, till the dish is full ; then cover and 
bake it 

The addition of raspberries or mulberries to currant tart is 
a great improvement 



184 PRAOnOAL OOOXXBT. 

DAMSON TA&T. 

Line a dish with a good crust ; put in tlie finiit, and proceed 
die same as for any other fruit pie, 

ORAPS TABT. 

Take the youngest grapes before stones are formed ; pick 
and scald them the same as currantSi or gooseberries, and fin- 
ish the same as other tarts. More sugar will be required than 
usual, on account of the extreme tartness of the fruit 

0008BBKRR7 (oRBBn) TART. 

Use either whole gooseberries, or make a marmalade of 
them with a good syrup ; the last method is perhaps the best, 
as you can tell easily how sweet they are and ought to be ; if 
made of marmalade, the seeds ought to be taken out. 

PEAR TART. 

Peel some pears carefully ; cut them into quarters and re- 
move the cores ; if large and green, boil them soft in a little 
water, simmering them in some rich syrup, and place them 
with the syrup in a dish lined with puff paste ; cover and 
bake it 

QUmCa TART. 

Take a few preserved quinces, put an equal weight of syrup, 
made with sugar and water and preserve, into a preserving 
pan ; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit ; when somewhat 
dear, place the quinces in a tart dish, with puff paste, as usual. 
Cover, bake it, and when done, lift the top gently, put m the 
syrup^ and serve. 

RASPBBRRT TART. 

Line a dish with nice puff paste; put in fitiit and sugar; 
lay bars aoroasi and bake. 



PDBSy PCTDDINeS, XTO. 185 

EABPBBRRY TART WITH ORBAM. 

Put some raspberries in a patty pan lined with thin puff 
paste ; strew in some finely sifted sugar ; cover with puflf-paste 
and bake it ; when done, take off the top and pour in half a 
pint of cream, previously mixed with the yolks of two or three 
eggs, and sweetened with a little sugar ; then return the tart 
to the oven for five or six minutes. 

RHUBARB TART. 

Take some stalks of a good size, remove the thin skin, and 
cut them in pieces four or five inches long ; place them in a 
dish, and pour over a thin syrup of sugar and water ; cover 
with another dish, and simmer slowly for an hour upon a hot 
hearth, or do them in a block tin saucepan. Allow it to cool, 
and then make it into a tart; when tender, the baking the 
crust will be sufficient. A tart may be made by cutting t^ 
stalks into pieces the size of gooseberries, and making it the 
same way as gooseberry tart. 

STRAWBERRY TART. 

Put into a basin two quarts of the best scarlet strawberries ; 
add half a pint of cold clarified sugar, the same quantity of 
Madeira, with the juice of two lemons ; mix all well without 
breaking the strawberries, and put them into a puff paste pre- 
viously baked ; keep them very cooL 

TARTLST8. 

Line several tartlet pans with a thin, short paste ; fill them 
with any preserve or sweetmeat you like ; then with paste 
shred very fine (moulds made for this purpose do them much 
neater and more quickly) cross them ; egg them ; place them 
in a baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven. 



186 PR ACTIO AL OOOKXBT. 



TBLLOW ALMOND SWKSTMSATS. 



Blanch a pound of sweet almonds ; wash them in cold wa- 
ter, and when quite dry, pound them with a sufficient quantity of 
yolks of eggs into a fine but rather stiff paste ; add to them a 
pound of powdered sugar, and the rinds of two lemons gra- 
ted ; knead the paste well with your hands, first sprinkling the 
table with sugar. Form the paste into what figures you 
please, such as fleur-de-lis, trefoil, 6ec., &g., each being about 
the size and weight of a macaroon. Place them on a white 
^per and on an iron plate ; fry them in a moderately hot 
9tove. If they are of a deep yellow they are sufficiently 
done. These sweetmeats may be still further ornamented in 
the following manner : Boil some sugar in orange flower wa- 
ter, and as soon as the sweetmeats are taken firom the stove or 
oven, wash them over with a light brush, dipped in the syrup ; 
this will give them a delicious perfume ; when cold take them 
from the paper, and put them into glasses for the table. 



TO OUT OUT PATTT OASIS, STO. 



Boll your paste out about a quarter of an inch but first try 
a very thin bit in your oven, and you will find out the heat of 
the oven and the lightness of your paste ; and then cut the 
thickness accordingly. Have a plain or a fluted cutter, turn 
each piece of paste upon your papered baking sheet, take a 
smaller cutter and pass in the middle of the top of each, then 
e^ each top with a paste brush ; nine will make a good dish. 
Boll out a piece of the paste, and with a cutter sufficiently 
large to cover the opening on the top, cut out the same num- 
ber for the tops, e^ them, and bake them separately ; afler 
your paste is baked, and before it is cold, with a small knife 
carefiilly put them in the screen until required. 



FiBfl, PUDDnreB, arc. 187 

TO KXVTBALIZB TBI AOID IN VRTTIT PISS JLSD PUSDIirQS. 

A large quantity of the free acid which exists in rhubarb, 
gooseberry, currants, and other fruits, may be judiciously cor. 
rected by the use of a small quantity of carbonate of soda, 
without the least afl^ing their flavor, so long as too much 
soda is not added. To an ordinary sized pie or pudding, as 
much soda may be added as, piled up, will coyer a shilling, or 
even twice such a quantity if the fruit is very sour. If this 
little hint b attended to, many a stomach ache will be pre- 
vented, and a vast quantity of sugar saved, because, when the 
acid is neutndized by the soda, it will not require so much su- 
gar to render the tart sweet 

0T8TIB PATTII8. 

Line some small patty pans with a fine puff paste ; put a 
piece of bread into eadi, cover with paste and bake them. 
While they are baking, take some oysters and cut them into 
small pieces ; place them in a saucepan with a very small por- 
tion of grated nutm^, a very little white pepper and salt, a 
morsel of lemon peel cut as small as possible, a little cream, 
and a little of the oyster liquor ; simmer it a few minutes, then 
remove the bread £xim the pattieS| and put in the mixture. 

If SAT PATTIBS. 

Ihe patty pans should not be too large ; make a puff paste, 
put a layer at the bottom of the tins ; put in foroemeat, and 
cover with puff paste ; bake them a light brown ; turn them 
out.* If for a small dinner, five patties ; or seven for a large 
dinner wiU suffice for a side dish. 

MABROW PATTIXfl. 

Shred a few apples with some marrow ; add a little sugar ; 
make them up in puff paste ; fry them in clarified butter, and 
when dcMie, sprinkle aome sugar over them and serve. 



188 PRAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

TURKOrXRS. 

Cut into square pieces the thickness of a patty case ; put in 
the middle a small piece of jam ; double one side over the 
other, pressing it with your two thumbs, keeping the middle 
of a round lump ; egg the tops, bake them and glaze them. 

APRIOOT PUFFS. 

Take some puff paste, roll it to about fifteen indies long, the 
eighth of an inch in thickness, and six inches wide ; then place 
a small portion of apricot marmalade on the paste at equal 
distances, and two inches from the edge ; moisten round each 
bit of marmalade, and turn the two inches of paste oyer, press 
it down round the preserve so as to join the crusts, and then 
cut them out into semi-circular turnovers ; lay them on a tin, 
and bake them in a hot oven ; when almost done, sprinkle 
them with sugar, and glaze them. 

A MIZID JAM FOB TAST8 OR TARTLIT8. 

Take two pounds of apricots when ripe ; take out the ker- 
nels and blandi them ; then add them to the fruit ; add to this 
two pounds of green gage plums, and two or three pounds of 
lump sugar ; then gently boil all until it is a dear jelly. Put 
it in'small pots, 

OURD PUFFS. 

To the curd of two quarts of new milk well drained, add the 
yolks of seven ^gs and the whites of two ; sugar, rosewater, 
nutmeg, and bread crumbs ; make it into a paste, cut into any 
shape you like ; fry them in boiling lard, and serve them with 
a sauce made with butter, sugar, and white wine. 

CHBSSB PUFFS. 

Take half a pint of cheese curd strained very fine ; beat it 
in a mortar with three eggs, leaving out two whites ; a spoon 



PUB, PUDDXN06, ITO. 189 

ftill and a half of flour, a spoon full of orange flower water, a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet ; make 
Uie paste into very small round cakes, and bake them on a tin 
plate in a hot OTen for fifteen muMites; serve with pudding 
sauce. 

MMBDrOUBS. 

Lay four eggs on ice for an hour ; weigh the weight of the 
eggs in fine sifted sugar ; then whip up the whites of those 
four eggs to a very stiff point ; when done, mix in gently the 
sugar ; have ready a board an inch and a half thick, covered 
with white paper ; sugar the paper ; then with a silver spoon 
form the meringues the shape of an egg, but do not let them 
touch each other ; sift sugar well over them ; dry them in 
your hot closet, and when quite hard take them off the paper 
and scoop out the soft, and turn them over upon another pa- 
per ; dry them again in the hot closet ; fill them with jam 
or cream when you want them ; dish upon a napkin or cut 
paper. 

What you scoop out, will do to sweeten jelly, or glaze 
tarts. 

IfSRIKOUKS. 

Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid fit>th, then add the 
rind of six lemons grated very fine, and a spoon fiill of sifted 
sugar ; after which lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with 
a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it ; 
sift sugar over, and put them to bake in a moderately heated 
oven, taking care that they are done of a nice color ; then put 
raspberry, apricot, or any other kind of jam between two of 
these bottoms ; add them together, and lay them in a warm 
place or before the fire to dry. 



CHAPTER XV. 

PANCAKES. FRITTERS, MUFFINS. AND 

WAFFLES. 

BUOKWBBAT CAKU. 

Mn a quart of buckwheat flour with a pint of lukewarm 
milk ; some prefer water ; add a teacup of yeast, and set it in 
a warm place over night to rise. In the morning, if sour, add 
a teaspoon full of saleratus, and a little salt Bake as griddles, 
and butter them hot These are nice for breakfiist, or with 
butter and sugar for tea. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKS8. ^ 

Take two pounds of buckwheat flour ; add a small saucer 
fall of Indian meal, a little salt, and a teacup of yeast Mix 
all together, with lukewarm water, to a thicker consist^icy 
than batter. Put it in a moderately warm place. When 
ready to bake, if not quite sweet, add a little saleratus, and 
bake on a griddle well heated. 

FLOUR PANCAXB8. 

Take a pint of thick milk, or a quart of sour ; to the thick, 
add a pint of sweet milk, a little salt, a teaspoon full of salera- 
tus, and flour to make a batter. The thinner the batter, if 
baked well, the more tender they will be. Half a teacup of 
cream improves them. Butter while hot, and serve with sugar, 
honey, or maple molasses. For a common sauce, take a tea- 
cup of cream, a spoon full of sugar, and half a teaspoon of gin- 
ger. It is a delightful way of eating them. 



PAK0AK18, FRrmR8| XTCk 191 

CREAM PAK0AXS8. 

To a pint of (3*eam add the yolks of two eggs, two ounces 
of sugar, and a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg ; 
mix the whole well, and then fry them very carefully. 

PANCAKES A LA PBANCAIBB. 

Into a stewpan put four ounces of butter, a tablespoon full 
of ratafia, pounded, the rind of a lemon, cut thin, two ounces 
of pounded white sugar ; mix in separately three e^s ; then 
add, one at a time, the yolks of three more ; mix well ; add a 
little milk, half a pint of cream, and a little orange flower wa- 
ter ; beat it well up to the thickness of a good cream ; put 
into your pan some clarified butter, and when melted, pour it 
away, and put in your batter for the pancakes ; they must be 
made very thin. When you have finished frying the pancakes, 
leave in the bottom of your stewpan one tablespoon full of the 
batter ; add to it a little orange flower water, some sugar, a 
small quantity of pounded ratafia, and the yolk of an egg ; 
mix this with some cream ; put it into a boat, and serve as a 
sauce. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

To three pints of warm water add half a gill of yeast, half a 
teaspoon full of saleratus, dissolved, and a teaspoon full of salt ; 
stir in yellow oom-meal, to make a batter ; add a pint bowl 
of wheat flour, and beat the whole smooth ; cover it, and set it 
in a warm place to rise. In the -morning, add two eggs, well 
beaten, and bake on a griddle, to a nice brown. Serve on a 
hot dish, with butter and syrup for break&st 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a stiff batter of half a pint of milk, two e^s, with 
flour; slioe six apples thin ; dip them in the batter, and then 
fry tbem in lard 



"M FttACnCAL COOKKRT. 

RICK PANCAKES. 

To half a pound of rice put two^hirds of a pint of water ; 
boil to a jelly ; when cold, add to it eight eggs, a pint of cream, 
a little salt, nutmeg, and half a pound of butter, melted ; mix 
well, adding the butter last, and working it only so much as 
will make the batter sufficiently thick. Fry them. 

SXCKLLBKT APPLE TRnTERS. 

Pare your apples, and cut in thin slices, and mix them with 
your flour ; stir in a quart of milk and four eggs, a little salt 
and saleratus, to make a thick batter. Fry in plenty of lard. 
Lemon or currants may be used, instead of apples. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Take a quart of sweet milk, and a teacup of cream, four 
eggs, beat to a froth, half a nutmeg, or grated lemon peel, and 
a teaspoon full of salt Stir them with flour suflicient to make 
a thick batter ; dissolve a small teaspoon full of saleratus, and 
stir in; then fry in lard. 

OTSTBE FRrrrBRS. 

Strain some of their own liquor, and make a thin batter with 
two eggs, and some salt and flour ; stir the oysters in ; make 
some butter and lard hot, in a thick bottomed frying pan, and 
pour in the fritters ; let it fry to a nice brown on both sides. 

Or put it in the pan with a large spoon, allowing an oyster for 
each spoon full of batter ; the oysters for these last must be 
large ; the former may be small. 

PLAIN FRITTERS. 

To a quart of buttermilk, or sour milk, put a pint or more 
of sweet milk, three beaten eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, and a 
teaspoon of saleratus ; stir in flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter. Have your lard hot, and drop them neatly by the spoon 
fiill into the hird, and fry them to a light brown. Serve them 



FAKCAJLBS, FRITTERS, STO. 193 

"With liquid pudding sauce, or sprinkle over them sugar and 
nutmeg, or serve plain. 

CORN OTSTKRB. 

One pint of grated green corn, one cup of flour, one dessert* 
spoon full of salt, one teaspoon full of pepper, and one e^. 

Mix the ingredients tc^ether ; drop and fry them in hot lard, 
in taste thej resemble fried oystersi They are an excellent 
relish for breakfiist^ and a good side-dish for dinner. 

APPLS FRITTERS. 

Pare and core some fine, large pippins, and cut them into 
round slices. Soak them in wine, sugar, and nutmeg, for two 
or three hours. Make a batter of four eggs, a tablespoon full 
of rosewater, a tablespoon full of wine, a tablespoon full of 
milk ; thicken with enough flour, stirred in by degrees, to make 
a batter ; mix it two or three hours before it is wanted, that 
it may be light. Heat some butter in a frying pan ; dip each 
slice of apple separately into the batter, and fry them brown ; 
sift pounded sugar, and grate nutmeg over them. 

FRITTBRS, AU BLANO. 

Mix a hand full of rice flour with milk ; set it on the fire ; 
stir constantly, adding a little cream, sugar, and lemon peel ; 
when thickened, remove it from the fire ; when cold, roll it in 
balls the size of a walnut ; dip them in batter, and fry them. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Take some oranges ; pare off the rind quite close ; out them 
in quarters, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour ; then 
dram them ; take out the seeds; put the oranges mto a lig^t 
syrup, and simmer till the syrup thickens; remove them from 
the fire ; let them cool ; cover them with syrup ; dip each 
quarter into butter, and ftj them to a nice color; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and serve them. 

I 18 



194 PRAOnOAL OOOKKRT. 

OTBTSR FRITTXRS. 

Blanch some of the lai^est oysters you can get, but do not 
let them boil ; stniin the liquor, and season with cayenne pep- 
per, and a few drops of essence of anchovies ; make this liquor 
into a good thick batter, using a little cream ; have your stew- 
pan, with lard, quite hot; then dip them separately into the bat- 
ter, and fry them ; use silver skewers for them ; if not, dish 
on a napkin and fried parsley. 

MUFFINS. 

Mix a quart of wheat fk>ur smoothly with a pint and a half 
of lukewarm milk, half a teacup of yeast, a couple of'beaten 
eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, and a couple of tablespoons full of 
lukewarm, melted butter. Set the batter in a warm place to 
rise. When light, butter your muffin cups, turn in the mix- 
tare, and bake the muffins to a light brown. 

INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. 

To a quart of meal pour boiling water, stirring constantly, 
until a thick batter ; let it cool ; while warm, add a small tea- 
cup of butter, a teaspoon full of salt, and a tablespoon full of 
yeast, with two well beaten eggs ; set it in a warm place for 
two hours ; then stir it smooth, and bake in small cakes, on a 
griddle ; when one side is a rich brown, turn the other ; lay 
them singly on a hot dish, and serve. These may be made 
without the yeast, and baked as soon as mixed. 

FLOUR WAFFLB8, RAIBBD, 

Take warm milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a thick 
batter. The milk should be stirred in gradually, so as to have 
it free from lumps. Add a tablespoon full of melted butter, 
a oouple of beaten eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, and half a tea- 
cup of yeast When risen, fill your waffle-irons with the bat- 
tar; baka them on a hot bed of coala. After they hare beeo 



PANOAXXfl, rBITTXRS, XTO. 195 

on the fire two or three minutes, tarn the waffle-irons over ; 
when brown on both sides, they are sufficiently baked. The 
waffle-irons should be well greased with lard, and very hot, 
before each one is put in. The waffles Aould be buttered as 
soon as cooked. Serve them up with powdered white sugar 
and cinnamon. 

QUICK WATTLKS. 

Mix flour and cold milk together, to make a thick batter ; 
to a quart of the flour put six beaten eggs, a tablespoon full of 
melted butter, and a teaspoon full of salt Some cooks add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a nutm^. Bake them 
immediately. 

RIOB WATFLBB. 

Mix a teacup and a half of boiled rice with a pint of milk ; 
after warming it, stir in a pint of cold milk, and a teaspoon full 
of salt. Stir in four eggs, well beaten, and sufficient flour to 
make a thick batter. Bake in waffle-irons, as before. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

EGOS AND OMELETS. 

For making omelets, or frying eggs, it is best to have an 
omelet pan, which is thick bottomed, and about six inches in 
diameter; this is the best also for pancakes, fritters, or for 
frying oysters. For turning omelets, fried oysters, fried pars- 
ley, &C., use a skimmer. 

BOILBD EGOS. 

Wash them ; put them into boiling water, in their shells ; 
keep the water boiling — three minutes for very soft — five, that 
the yolk only may be sofl; six minutes will boil the yolk 
hard, for eating. Eight minutes are required for boiling e^s 
for salad, or garnish. When done, take them firom the boiling 
water, into a basin of cold water, which will prevent the yolk 
turning dark or black. 

Another way, which is very nice, is to break the shells, and 
drop the eggs into a pan of scalding hot water ; let i^ stand 
till the white has set ; then put the pan on a moderate fire ; 
when the water boils up, the eggs are cooked sufficiently. 
^Eggs look very prettily cooked in this way, the yolk being 
just visible through the white. 

POAOHBD XGGS. 

Break the eggs into a pan ; beat them to a froth ; then put 
them into a buttered tin pan ; set the pan on a few coals ; pat 
in a small lump of butter, and a little salt; let them cook 
very slowly, stirring them constantly, till they become quite 
thick; then turn them on to buttered toast 



aOCMI AND OlOLBtS. 197 

TO D11S80 XGOB. 

Break your eggs separately in cups; have ready a large 
stewpan, half full of water ; let it simmer ; then put in your 
eggs, not too many at a time ; some like them done less than 
others; therefore, boil them accordingly; have ready by your 
side a dish of warm water, and when your eggs are sufficiently 
done put them into this clean water ; trim them smooth and 
round ; dish them on pieces of toast, buttered ; if for dinner, 
upon prepared spinach or potatoes. 

SOOTOH SGOS. 

Boil hard six eggs ; take off the shells ; then mask each egg 
with some raw forcemeat, rolling each egg in some grated 
tongue or ham ; press this with your hands close to the eggs ; 
roll each egg in some very fine bread crumbs ; fry them to a 
fine yellow color; put in your dish a sharp sauce or plain 
gravy, or dry upon a napkin, and fried parsley. 

OMXLBT. 

Take as many eggs as you think proper, according to the 
aze of your omelet; break them into a basin, with some 
chopped parsley and salt ; then beat them well, and season 
them according to taste; have ready some onions, chopped 
small ; put some butter into a frying pan, and when it is hot, 
but not to bum, put in your chopped onions ; give them two 
or three turns : add your eggs to it, and firy the whole to a 
nice brown ; you must only fry one side ; when done, turn it 
into a dish, the fried side uppermost, and serve. 

OMKLKT AU NATT7BBU 

Break eight or ten eggs into a pan ; add pepper, salt, and a 
gpooD full of cold water ; beat them up with a whisk ; in the 
meantime, put some fresh butter into a frying pan ; when it is 
quite melted, and nearly boilings put in the eggs with a skim- 



198 PRAOnOAL OOOKKBT. 

mer. As it is frying, take up tiie edges, that they may be 
properly done ; when oooked, double it Serve very hot 

ONION OMBLXT. 

Cut some very white onions into alioes ; give them a few 
turns over the fire; when nearly done, moisten them with 
cream, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; mix this 
with half a dozen e^^ ; beat the whole up well, and fry the 
omelet either in oil or butter. 

OMBLKT, WITH HAM, XTO. 

Beat the egga to a froth, and to a dozen of e^s put three 
ounces of finely minced boiled ham, beei^ or veal ; if the latter 
meat is used, add a little salt Melt a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; mix a little of it with the eggs ; it should be just luke* 
warm ; set the remainder of the butter on the (ire, in a frying 
or tin pan ; when quite hot, turn in the eggs, beaten to a froth ; 
stir them until they begin to set When brown on the under 
side, it is sufficiently cooked. The omelet should be cooked 
on a moderate fire, and in a pan small enough to have the om- 
elet an inch thick. When you take them up, lay a flat dish 
on them ; then turn the pan upeide down. 

OMXLXT FRITTXRS. 

Make two or three thin omelets ; cut them into small pieces, 
and roll them into the shape of olives ; when cold, dip them 
into batter, or enclose them into puff paste ; fry and serve 
them with fiied parsley. 

OMKLBT BOUFFLX. 

Break six eggs ; separate the whites fh>m the yolks ; to the 
latter put four dessertspoons fiill of powdered sugar, and the 
rind of a lemon, diopped exceedingly small ; mix them well ; 
whip the whites, as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest ; 
put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying pan, over a 



SGCM AND OMUm. 199 

brisk fire; as soon as it is completely melted, pour In the 
above ; stir it up, that the butter may be thoroughly incorpo- 
rated with the omelet ; and when that is the case, strain it into 
a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes ; strew powdered 
sugar over, and color the top carefully with a salamander. 

A SIMPLV AND PLAIN SWSBT OlfXLKT. 

Break up six eggs in a basin, with a few grains of salt, a 
grating of a lemon, a piece of citron, orange, and a lemon peel, 
chopped very fine, a gill of cream, some pounded sugar, a lit- 
tle orange flower water, a few grains of grated nutmeg; fry it 
as other omelets ; trim it, and roll it up ; if approved o^ put 
apricot jam in it ; dish it upon a napkin. 

APPLE SOUFPLB WCTH RICE. 

Blanch half a pound of the best rice in scalding water ; strain 
it clear; boil it in sufHcient milk to cover it ; to this add a lit- 
tle lemon peel, and a small bit of cinnamon ; let it boil until 
the rice has absorbed the milk ; turn it into a dish, and when 
cr)ol, raise a wall with it about three inches high, having first 
taken the precaution to egg the dish, to make it stick 6rmly ; 
smooth the rice to an even surface ; then egg it all over ; fill 
the dish half way up the wall of rice with apple marmalade ; 
beat to a fine froth the whites of four eggs ; pour them over 
the marmalade ; then sift powdered white sugar over it ; put 
it into the oven ; keep up an even heat, to give it a fine color. 



CHAPTER XVll. 
BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 

TO MAKK BUTTER. 

KxBP your chum, pails and pans sweet by frequent scalding, 
eoouring, and exposure to the sun. Tin pails and broad tin 
pans are preferable. The milk should be strained into the 
pans after standing about ten minutes to settle. In winter 
warm the pans and chums with hot waier ; in summer ctxA 
them with cold. Keep your milk in summer where it is cool 
and airy ; in winter where it is warm. In warm weather 
skim your milk as soon as it is thick ; in colder weather skim 
as soon as there is a good thick cream, and be careful not to 
let it remain too long, as it will acquire a bitter taste. Chum 
as often as you have cream enough ; never less than once a 
week. It is better to dium every third day, if possible. If 
the cream is of the right temperature when commenced, it 
will not froth, and if it does, put in a little salt. Use none 
but the best ground salt ; work out all the buttermilk with a 
ladle in summer ; in winter use clean hands. If you wish to 
keep it some time, put it down in a jar or firkin, or pickle in 
layers, as dean and free from buttermilk as it is possible, 
leaving a space for pickle over it, in the following proportions : 
Half a pail of water, one quart of fine salt, two ounces of 
loaf sugar, one ounce of saltpetre, well boiled and skimmed. 
When cold, cover with this, and it will keep good and sweet 
the year round. If to be used fresh, or sold, mould it into 
handsome roUs^ and ornament. 



BUTTKR, CHXS8X, XTO. 201 

TO PBESSRYS BUTTXR TOR WIHTXR. 

Take two parts of the best oomraon salt, one part of good 
loaf sQgar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well together ; 
to sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, 
put one ounce of the above composition ; work it well, and put 
it into pots when quite firm and cold. 

TO MAKX TXILOW BUTTXR IS WIVTBR. 

Just before the termination of churning, put in the yolk of 
e^s. It has been kept a secret, but its value requires pub- 
licity. 

TO FRX8HXN SALT BUTTXR. 

Work it over in small quantities in cold water, changing the 
water till it is dear. Then mix a teaspoon full of white sugar 
and a tablespoon fOdl of fine salt into each pound of butter. 
Do up in rolls, or pack in jar& 

TO OULRITT BUTBXR. 

Scrape off the outsides of the butter you may require, and 
then put it into a stewpan by the side of a slow fire, where it 
must remain till the scum rises to the top and the milk settles 
at the bottom ; carefiiUy with a spoon take off the scum ; when 
clear it is fit for use. 

OOLD BX7TTXR TOR TXA OR BRXAKFA8T. 

Hus yon can make up into many pretty forms, as small 

pats, in shape of a pine, making the roughness with a silver 

fork, and some done on a crimping board, and rolled on a cut 

pattern, either with name or crest, or scooped with the bowl of 

a spoon, then dipping the spoon in salt and water each time, it 

will form a shell ; if sent up by itself, put parsley round ; it 

may be used with anchovies^ potted meats, or grated bee^ or 

tongue, or radishes^ 6to, 

I* 



am rmkonoAL coosxrt. 

MSLTXD BUTTSB WirHOUT BOILINOw 

Two ounces of butter beat to a cream ; then add a table- 
spoon full of flour and a gill of cold water ; stir it OTer the fire 
untU quite thick, but it must not boil. 

TO UAXM CHES8B. 

The milk should be new and rich — a little more than blood 
warm. Your rennet should be previously prepared in the 
proportion of a piece of rennet the size of the hand to a quart 
of water. A tablespoon full of the water will curd a quart of 
milk. After warming the milk, place it in the tub kept for 
the purpose. When the curd has set, take a long knife and cut 
through the curd both ways carefully, and not break it until the 
whey is seen to separate. Liet it remain until the whey cov- 
ers the curd well. Then place a ladder over another tub with 
a strainer and basket, and dip the curd and whey carefully into 
the strainer ; let it lie and drain until it has nearly ceased, and 
then move it by raising the sides of the strainer. It should 
not be ui^ed, as that will press out the cream, and alter the 
taste of the cheese. If prepared the same day, the curd must 
be salted enough to taste right, and put in a hoop, strainer and 
all, made smooth as posdble, with a cover that will just fit in- 
side, and placed in a press. When turned, which should be in 
two hours, put it in cheese doth wet with salt and water, and 
in eight or nine hours turn again, and pare the edges. Let it 
remain twelve or fourteen hours, then take it out and oil with 
salt butte^, and place it where it will have air, but not be ex- 
posed to flies. 

THE BB8T OHBBSB IH THS WORLD. 

To make a cheese in the style of Stilton cheese, only mudi 
better, take the new milk of seven cows with the cream from 
the milk of seven cowa. Heat a gallon of water scalding hot, 
and pat mto it three or four hands foil of marigolds bruised a 



BUTTXK, 0BSS8X, XTO. SOS 

little ; strain it into the tab containing the milk and cream, and 
put to it some rennet, but not so much as to make it come very 
hard. Put the curd into the sieve to drain ; do not break it 
all, but, as the whey runs out, tie up the cloth, and let it stand 
half an hour or more. Then cut the curd in pieces ; pour 
upon it as much cold water as will cover it, and let it 
stand half an hour. Put part of it into a vat or a hoop nearly 
six inches deep ; break the top of it a little, just to make it 
join with the other, and strew on it a very little salt; then put 
in the other part, lay a fifty pound weight upon it, and let it 
stand half an hour. Turn it, and put it into the press. Turn it 
into wet, clean cloths every hour of the day. Next morning 
salt it, and let it lie in the salt a night and a day. Keep it 
swathed tight, till it begins to dry and coat, and keep it cov- 
ered with a clean cloth for a long time. 

The month of August is the best time for making this cheese, 
which should be kept a year before it is cut 

TO PREPARB RSNHST. 

Take the stomach of the calf, empty it, and stiew it plenti- 
fully with salt ; let it lay for a day or two, then stretdi it out 
on two sticks, and dry it in the sun ; a piece of dried rennet, 
the size of your hand, is sufficient for a quart of water ; a tabl&. 
spoon full of the water will curd a quart of milk. 

TO KEEP CHEESE — THE ENGLISH METHOD. 

The inexperienced are apt to be deceived in cheeses Of the 
finest quality ; when testing it by the taster, the smell is strong, 
and the taste acrid ; it is, therefore, rejected ; whereas, if cut 
and suffered to remain for two or three days in a dry dosct, 
exposed to the air, the flavor would become both pure and 
agreeable. To avoid this error, the best plan is to lay in a 
aHook of ebeese, ke^ it in ^ dry oellar, in a box, biuy it in 



204 PRACnOAL OOOXXRT. 



dust, and in about three months it will be greatl} im- 
proved, and fit to cut Divide a cheese in halves, or take, out 
one- fourth, according to the consumption, and cover the cut 
parts of the cheese reserved with butter, or lay close to the 
side cut a buttered paper, and keep the cheese in a dry place ; 
the part in use should be exposed in the larder for about three 
days ; it will then be ready for the tables 

APRICOT OBEBSX. 

Stalk and pare thinly a number of apricots; take their 
wdght, and put to them an equal weight of fine white sugar — 
the latter must be moistened a little — and boil together very 
quickly ; add the kernels blanched ; let it boil for half an hour, 
not longer; half fill small jars, and cover down for future use. 

ARTIFIOIAL GHSX8B. 

Well pound some nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, to which 
add a gallon of new milk, two quarts of cream ; boil these in 
the milk ; put in eight eggs, six or eight spoons fiill of wine 
vinegar to turn the milk ; let it boil till it comes to a curd, 
tie it up in a cheese doth, and let it hang six or eight hours to 
drain ; then open it, take out the spice, sweeten it with sugar 
and rose water, put it into a cullender, let it stand an hour 
more, then turn it out and serve it up in a dish with cream 
under it 

OHnSI ORXAM— A PLAIN P AMILT WAT. 

Put three pints of milk to one-half pint of cream, warm^ or 
according to the same proportions, and put in a little rennet ; 
keep it covered in a warm place, till it is curdled ; have a 
mould with holes, either of china or any other; put the curds 
mto it to drain about an hour ; serve with a good plain cream 
and pounded sugar over it 



BUTTER, 0BXB8S, BTa 805 

CHEBSK OBBAM AVD MARMALADB. 

Boil a pint of cream, mix it with any kind of marmalade 
you please — a few spoons full will be sufficient — and a little 
dried preserved lemon peel chopped fine ; when it is but just 
lukewarm, put some rennet to it, and serve with pounded su- 
gar over it. 

0HBB8B AB lOBD BVTTBR. 

Take a pint of cream, with some grated lemon peel, and a 
good spoon full of orange flower water, and boil for a few min 
utes ; when taken off the fire, add the yolks of a dozen eggs, 
well beat up, and mix together without boiling ; sifl through 
a sieve, and put into an icing pan to fi*eeze, working it the same 
as ices; it must be iced in such a manner that you can serve 
it with a spoon, like pats of butter stamped, and bits of dear 
ice between, to look like crystals. 

CHEBSB CREAM ICED. 

Boil half a pint of cream ; then add half a pound of sugar 
to it, a dozen of sweet almonds, pounded, a little orange flower 
water, and grated lemon peel ; boil together a few minutes ; 
when you take it off the fire, add five yolks of eggs beat up, 
and stir it frequently, till they are well mixed with the cream ; 
strain it in a sieve, and put it into the icing pot ; when it is 
pretty well iced, work it well to put it into cheese moulds, ice 
it again and serve. It is also done with coflee and chocolate, 
in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened 
with four or five yolks of e^, as directed in the first, and 
moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. 

DAMSOK OHBESB. 

Take eight pounds of damsons, and bake them in a jar till 
they are tender; then rub them through a cullender, put to 
them one pound and a half of lump sugar, and let them boil 
to the thickness of marmalade. 



906 PRACTICAL COOKXAT, 

CHIBBE — ^FRESB. 

Sweeten two quarts of cream with sugar, and boit it thin ; 
then put in some damask rosewater, and keep it stirred, that 
it may not bum. When it is thickened and turned, take it 
off the fire, wash the strainer and cheese-vat with rosewater, 
roll your curd backward and forward in the strainer, to drain 
the whey ftom it, put the curd into the vat as soon as it is 
cool, slip it into the cheese dish with some of the whey, and 
serve it 

OHXESX FBXTTXR8. 

Take some mild cheese, add some milk and butter, and put 
the whole into a saucepan ; put to these ingredients flour, 
eggs, and sugar, and make into a paste, of which form your 
fritters ; fry them of a nice color; then sprinkle with sugar, 
and serve. 

CHBS8E PUFF8. 

Take half a pint of cheese curd strained firom the whey, 
with a spoon full and a half of flour, three eggs — Cleave out the 
whites of two — a spoon full of orange flower water, a quarter 
of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it sweet ; beat it in a mortar; 
lay a little of this paste in very small round cakes on a tin 
plate ; if the oven is hot, they will take a quarter of an hour 
to bake ; serve them with pudding sauce. 

CHIKSS ROASTXD, TO COMK UF AFTXR DIVKBR. 

Mix three ounces of grated cheese, the yolks of two ^ggs, 
four ounces of butter, and three ounces of grated bread, a des- 
sertspoon full of mustard, a little salt and pepper, beat the 
whole well in a mortar ; toast some bread, cut it into proper 
pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them ; put them in a 
Dutch oven covered with a dish till hot through ; remove the 
dish and let the cheese brown a little ; apTFa m he* ■• poariUib 



BUTTBR, CHXB8X, XTC. 207 

RIOE CHXBSK. 

Take a pound of rice, boil it till it becomes tbick as basty 
pudding in ratber less tban balf a pint of milk ; pour it hot on 
an ounce and a balf of butter, tbe same weight of loaf sugar, 
mixing it well together; let it stand till cold, then add one 
egg and the yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

BAGS OHXBSB. 

Take the tops of young red sage ; bruise in a mortar with 
some leaves of spinach ; squeeze the juice, mix it with the ren- 
net in the milk, more or less, as you like it, for color and 
taste ; when the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in 
with the skimmer till it is pressed two inches above the vat, 
press it eight or ten hours, salt it, and turn every day. 

CHXB8B TOABTBD, OB A WBUBH RABBFr. 

Take a slice of bread and nicely toast it ; toast a slice of 
cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and, with a hot sala- 
mander, brown it^ and rub some mustard over it. 

OBXBSB T0A8T. 

Take some butter, made mustard, and salt ; mix it in a mass, 
spread it on thin, fresh made toast, and grated cheese. 

POT OHBBBB. 

Put about one-third buttermilk to two thirds of sour mdk, ui a 
clean vessel over the fire ; make it scalding hot ; then take the 
curd from the whey with the skimmer, and put it it into a 
muslin or linen bag, tie it up, and hang it to drain ; after an 
hour or two, take it down , moisten it slightly with sweet 
cream ;';put a little salt to it, work the salt into it, and make 
it in balls tbe size of a teacup ; press it close with the hands, 
lay a doth on a dish to receive the cheese, cover it, thsia 
Bet it in a ood place. 



CHAPTER XVIIL 

OUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, JELLIES, 
MARMALADES, ETC. 

OT7BTARD8. 

Boil a pint of milk, with lemon peel and cinnamon ; mix a 
pint of cream and the yolks of eggs, beaten ; when the milk 
tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour 
it into the cream, and stir it well ; then give the custard a sim- 
mer till of a proper thickness ; do not let it boil ; sdr it one 
waj the whole time; then flavor with a large spoon full of 
peach water, and two teaspoons full of brandy. If you wish 
your custard to be very rich, put in a quart of cream and no milk. 

APPLB CUSTARD. 

Select good sweet apples, such as will cook well ; pare, cut, 
and stew them ; when thoroughly done, stir them briskly till 
the pieces are all broken flne. Allow the apples time to cool, 
and thin down to the proper consistency with good milk, and 
bake with one crust, as you would bake a common custard, or 
a pun^pkin pie. If a richer pie is wanted, a few eggs may be 
added. If the apples are totally sweet, but little sugar or other 
sweetening will be required. If desirable, spices may be added. 

iLpPLR OUBTARD— -AHOTBVB. 

Pare, core, and slice twelve pippins. Boil a pint of water, a 
pound of loaf sugar, and twelve cloves, and skim. Put in the 
apples, and stew until the liquid is nearly gone. Lay them in a 
deep diah ; take out the doves when they are oold ; pour in a 



CUBTAAXM, ORSAlfB, STO. 209 

quart of costard, and let it oook by setting the dish in boiling 
water until it sets. The same with quince, but more sugar. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

Blanch and beat three ounces of sweet almonds^ and one 
ounce of bitter, fine, with a spoon full of water ; beat a pint of 
cream with two spoons full of rosewater, and put to them the 
yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it sweet ; 
then add the almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a 
proper thickness, but not to boil. Pour it into cups. 

' BOILBD CUSTARDS. 

Scald a quart of milk ; when cool, pour it into a mixture of 
nine beaten e^s^ nine tablespoons full of sugar, and rosewater 
to your taste ; strain this through a sieve into your custard 
cups ; set the cups into a deep iron pan ; (ill it half full of wa- 
ter, and boil them hard. 

BOTT CUSTARDS. 

Scald a quart of milk, with mace, cinnamon, and lemon peel ; 
pour this into sixteen well beaten eggs, leaving out the whites 
of eight, and half a pound of sugar ; strain this through a sieve 
into a pitcher, and set it into a kettle of hot water, stirring it 
constantly, until boiled enough. 

CUSTARD, BAKBD. 

Boil a pint of cream, with mace and cinnamon ; when cold, 
take four e^s, a little rose and orange flower water, a little 
white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to your taste ; mix them well 
together, and bake them in china cups. 

CREAM CUSTARD. 

Take the crumb of a baker's loaf, and grate it very flne, and 
add to it a quart of cream, with half a pound of fresh butter, 
and the yolks of a dozen eggs ; put to them as much sugar as 
will sweeten them ; then let it thicken over the fire ; make the 



210 PRACTICAL COOKXBT. 

custards shallow, and when they have stood half an hour in a 
slow oyen, grate some loaf sugar over them, and serve. 

CUSTARD— PLAIN. 

Boll together a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cin- 
namon, and some mace ; then take twelve eggs, beat ihem up 
well ; sweeten them ; put them into a pan, and bake or boil 
them, stirring them all one way till they are of a proper thick- 
ness ; boil the spice first, and when the milk is cold, mix the 
eggs, and boil it The spice may be left out, and in lieu of that, 
four or five bitter almonds, to the taste. 

CHBRRT CUSTARD. 

Take two pounds of ripe cherries, stoned and tailed, and put 
them into a preserving pan, with half a pound of powdered 
sugar; when nearly done, drain the cherries well ; strain the 
syrup, and boil it until it begins to adhere to the fingers; then 
pour it to a fourth part of the cherries, with the juice which 
drained from them, and put them on the fire till the nnp foAms ; 
prepare the custard in the usual way; pour in the drained cher- 
ries ; bake it for three-quarters of an hour, in a brisk oven. 
Previous to serving at table, mark it with the remaining 
cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. 

LKMON CUSTARD. 

Take the yolks of ten eggs, beaten ; strun them, and whip 
them with a pint of cream ; boil the juice of two lemons, sweet- 
ened, with the rind of one ; when cold, strain it to the cream 
and eggs ; when it almost boils, put it into a dish ; grate over 
the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. 

ORANGB CUSTARD. 

Beat the rind of a Seville orange (previously boiled very 
tender) in a mortar, to a very fine paste ; add the juice of a 



OVBTAltDS, CRXAM8, BTO. 211 

Seville orange, a spoon fbll of the best brandy, the jolks of 
four e^rs, and four ounces of lump sugar ; beat them well to- 
gether for ten minutes ; then pour in gradually a pmt of boil- 
ing cream, beating it till it is cold, and put it into custard 
glasses. Place the glasses in an earthen dish of hot water ; 
let them remain till thej are set ; then stick preserved orange 
or orange diips on the top. Serve either hot or cold. 

RIOB CITSTARBS WTTHOtrr CRBAlf. 

Take one teaspoon lull of rice flour, a pint of new milk, the 
yolks of three eggs, a tablespoon full of sugar ; mix the rice 
yery smooth, and stir it, with the e^s, into the boiling milk. 

CRKAMB. 
APRICOT CRSAlf. 

The same as raspberry and currant cream. Bub your ap 
ricots through a sieve ; if jam, the same ; use a little lemon 
juice, and less sugar than to the other creams. 

ORANGS CRBAK. 

To half a cup of water and a cup of powdered sugar put the 
juice of two oranges. Beat four eggs ; add, and beat them 
well tc^ether. Strain through flannel into a sauce pan ; set it 
over a gentle fire, and sdr it one way until thick and scalding 
hot, not boiling, or it will curdle. Flavor with lemon. Serve 
as a costard in jelly glasses. 

lOX OBBAM. 

Stir till perfectly smooth two tablespocms full of arrowroot 
(or fine starch) with milk sufficient to make a thin paste ; then 
mix a pint each of cream and milk, and boil ; while boiling, 
stir in the preparation of arrow root, and let it boil again ; 
then take it ofl^ and stir in half a pound <^ loaf sugar, and let 



212 PBAOnOAL OOOKSBT. 

it boil again. If vanillas are preferred, take the half i ' h/^ 
split in pieces, and boil it in a little milk, to extract U- ' £iayo& 
and stir it in with the arrow root; but if lemon, a<4d a fe^ 
drops ailer it is boiled ; or if strawberry, express the ;*iioe d^ i 
quart of ripe strawberries, and add to the powdered iugar, to 
boil with the- whole. Freeze it in the usual manner. (See 
ices.) 

If preferred, the following may be used instead of the above. 
One pint of cream, three pints of new milk, one pound of loaf 
sugar, two lemons, and half of a vanilla bean. Boil, and stir 
in the sugar gradually. If you have no lemon, use four eggs. 
Freeze as above. 

WHIPPED GRKAIC 

Take a pint and a half of cream, the whites of three ^gs, 
white sugar to your taste, and a part of the juice of a lemon ; 
then whip it with a whisk made of a bunch of quills, or in a 
whip chum ; flavor with the rind of grated lemon or rosewater; 
and as the foam rises, lay it into jelly glasses. If preferred, 
the glass may be half filled with jelly, and the whip poured 
over it. 

■XCXLLXNT ORSAM. 

Take three-quarters of a pint of cream ; whip it to a strong 
froth with some finely scraped lemon peel, a squeeze of lemon 
juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar; lay it on a sieve, 
in a form, and the next day lay it on a dish, and ornament it 
with very light puff paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, the 
length of a finger, and about two thick, over which should be 
strewn sugar, with isinglass ; the edges of the dishes may be 
lined with macaroons, 

CHOCOLATE — ^WHIPPSD CRBAM. 

DiBolve a quarter ^ a pound of the best chocolate in a glass 
)f boiling water, over a moderate fire; then let it oool; add 



OITBTARDB, GRXAUB, XTO. 218 

to It a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and mix it with 
whipped oream. 

OHKRRT ICX CRXAM. 

Pound half a pound of preserved cherries, unstoned ; put 
them into a basin, with a pint of cream, the juice of a lemon, 
and a gill of syrup; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it in the 
usual way. 

CURRANT lOK ORXAM. 

Put into a basin a large tablespoon and a half full of currant 
jelly, with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze in the juice of one 
lemon and a half; add a pint of cream, and a little cochineal ; 
pass it through a sieve, and freeze it in the usual way. 

OiniRANT ORKAM. 

Take some currants, thoroughly ripe ; bruise them in boiled 
cream ; add beaten dnnamon, and sweeten to your taste ; then 
strain it through a fine sieve, and serve. 

Strawberries and raspberries may be done in the same way. 
The fruit ought to be sweetened previous to putting in the 
eream, which should be used almost cold, else it is liable to 
curdle. 

GOOSBBXRRY ORBAM. 

Take a quart of gooseberries; boil them very quick in 
enough water to cover them ; stir in half an ounce of good but- 
ter; when they become soft, put them through a sieve; sweeten 
the pulp while it is hot^ and then beat it up with the yolks of 
four ^gSi Serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. 

LBMON ICX CRXAIC. 

Take the juice o£ four lemons, and the peel of one, grated ; 
add two gills of syrup, and one pint of cream ; mix it all to- 
gether ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it 



214 FRACTICAL COOKBET. 

BTRAWBSRRT CRIAM. 

Pulp six ounces of strawberry jam, with a pint of oream, 
through a sieve ; add to it the juioe of a lemon ; whisk it fast 
at the edge of a dish ; lay the froth on a sieve ; add a little 
more juioe of lemon, and when no more firoth will rise, put the 
cream into a dish, or into glasses, and place the froth upcm it^ 
well drained. 

8TRAWBXBRT lOB ORXAM. 

Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve, with a 
wooden spoon ; add four ounces of powdered sugar, and a pint 
of cream and freeze. 

OBBAM HA8TT. 

Take a gallon of milk from the cow ; set it on the fire, and 
when it begins to rise, take it off the fire, skim off all the cream, 
and put it on a plate ; then set the skillet on the fire again, and 
repeat the skimming, till your plate is full of cream ; put to it 
some orange flower and sugar, and serve it. 

SNOW ORXAII. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, and stir in two spoooa 
full of white sugar ; flavor with rosewater or lemon ; add a 
pint of thick, sweet cream, and beat the whole together to a 
firoth. This is to be served with a dessert of sweetmeats, 

TO WXKP ORKAM. 

Oeam ahready skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours, if 
scalded with sugar, and by adding it to as much powdered 
lump sugar as will make it sweet, it will keep good two days^ 
in a cool place. 

CREAM ATT NATURBL. 

Take some thin cream — ^let it be fresh — and put it in a bowl^ 
on ice, to cool ; add to it powdered sugar, and serve {t. 



OUBTARDfl, CR1IAM8, KTO. 215 

PINK AFFLS CRXAM . 

Have some pine apple prepared in syrup, and cut into small 
dice, putting in your cream, with a little of the syrup ; the 
other process, as before. 

BABPBSBRT AND CURBANT OBXAM. 

Use a pottle of raspberries, and the juice of a hand full of 
caTrants, passed through the sieve with raspberries ; then pro- 
ceed precisely the same as before. 

CRXAIC 6TRAWBBRRIXS. 

Hub through a fine sieve about four ounces of strawberries ; 
have ready, boiled in a small quantity of water or milk, two 
ounces of isinglass ; strain it, and put it to get cold, but not to 
set ; put in a large basin one pint of cream ; whip it with your 
whisk until it begins to thicken ; then whip in a piece of a 
lemon, free from seeds, a hand full of sifted sugar ; now the 
strawberries, and more sugar, if not sweet enough ; whip in 
gently your isinglass — not more than a teacup full — whip it 
well, and if nearly set, put it into your mould ; if not a good 
color, as that of a strawberry, use cochineal coloring to it. 

RHENISH CRBAM. 

Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water ; add the 
yolks of five eggs, the juice and peel of two lemons, half a pint 
of while wine, and half a pound of white sugar. Stir them all 
together, and let them boil gently, till thick enough to put into 
the mould. 

VANILLA CRBAM. 

Boil half a vanilla bean in a gill of new milk, until it ia 
highly flavored. Have ready a jelly of an ounce of isinglass 
to a pint of water ; mix it with the milk and a pint and a 
quarter of cream, sweetened with white su^r, and stir till 
cold. Dip the mould into cold water before filling it. Make 
it the day before it is wanted. 



216 PRACTICAL COOKBBT. 

GOOSEBSRRT FOOL. 

Put gooseberries into a stone jar, with some fine loaf sugar ; 
put the jar either in a stove, or in a sauce pan of water, over 
the fire ; if in a stove, a large spoon full of water should be 
added to the fruit ; when it is done to a pulp, press it through 
a cullender. Have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and 
a teacup full of raw cream, boiled together ; or you may use 
an egg instead of the cream ; leave it to get cold ; then sweeten 
well with sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it 

APPLK FOOL. 

May be made as gooseberry fool, except that when stewed, 
they should be peeled and pulped. 

APPLE TRIFLX. 

Take a quantity of apples, and pulp them through a sieve 
until you have sufficient to make a thick layer at the bottom 
of your dish ; grate the rind of half a lemon fine, and mix with 
it ; sweeten to palate with sugar. Mix together half a pint of 
milk, the same quantity of cream, and the yolk of one egg; 
scald it over a quick fire, keeping it well stirred all the time ; 
it must not boil ; add a little more sugar, and then stand it to 
cool ; when cold, lay it over the apples with a spoon ; cover it 
with a whip, which should be made about twenty-four hours pre- 
viously, and which should be thus made : to a gill of rich cream 
put the whites of two eggs^ well beaten, four teaspoons full of 
pounded sugar, some lemon peel, and a win&i^lass of raisin 
wine ; beat it well with a whisk, which is kept only for such 
purposes. A Goosebery Trifle may be made in the same way. 

ICES. 

Sorbetieres, or moulds for cream or firuit ices, are made of 
two sorts of materials — ^block-tin and pewter ; of these, the lat- 
ter is the best| the substance to be iced congealing more grad- 



CUBTA&DB, CaXAllS, tTC: 217 

uall J in it than the former — an object mudi to be desred ; 
(or when the ice is formed too quickly, it is w^ to be rough 
and full of lumps, like hail, especially if it is not well worked 
with the spatula. The other utensils, fit for this operation, are 
a deep pnl, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula, 
about nine inches long ; fill the pail with the pounded ice, over 
which spread four hands full of salt; fhen, having filled a sor- 
betiere, or mould, with cream, dpc, pot on the cover, and im- 
merse it in the center of the pail, taking care the ice touchea 
the mould in all parts ; throw in two more hands full of salt, 
and leave it a quarter of an hour ; then take the cover from 
the mould, and with the spatula stir the contents up together, 
60 that those parts that touch the sides of the mould, and con- 
sequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquor in the 
middle; work this about for seven or eight minutes, cover the 
mould, take the pail by the ears, and shake it round and round, 
for a quarter of an hour ; open the mould a second time, and 
sdr as before; continue these operations alternately, until it is 
entirely congealed and smooth, and firee from lumps; take 
care to let out the water that will oollect at the bottom of the 
pail, by means of the cock, and press the ice close to the sor* 
betiere, with the spatula ; when the cream is iced, take it from 
the pail ; dip the mould in warm water, and do not let it re- 
miun an instant ; dry it quickly ; turn it out, and serve as 
quickly as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this 
manner ; the preparation of the articles of which they are oon^ 
posed constitutes the only difference between them. 

ICIKO TOB CAXX8. 

For a lai^e cake, beat eight ounces of fine sugar ; put it into 
a mortar, with four spoons full of roaewater, and the whites of 
two eggs, beaten and strained ; whisk it well, and when the 
cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the icing, and covear the 

J 



218 nucnoAL oooxbbt. 

cake well ; set it in an oven to harden, but do not let it re* 
miun long enough to disoolor ; keep the cake in a dry place. 

ANOTHER. 

Put a pound of prepared icing sugar into a basin, with the 
whites of two eggs ; beat it up well for half an hour, with a 
wooden spoon ; if too thin, add more sugar, and a drop more 
white oCegg, and the juice of half a lemon ; beat it well It 
must not run. 

ALMOND ICING FOB BRIDB CAKBS. 

The whites of six ^gs, a pound and a half of double refined 
sugar, and a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, with a 
little rosewater ; mix all together, and whisk it well for an 
hour or two ; lay it over the cake, and put it in the oven. 

ICING FOR TARTB. 

Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well to- 
gether ; wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over, as 
you put them into the oven, or beat white of egg ; wash the 
paste, and sift some white sugar. 

CURRANT ICK. 

Squeeze some picked currants through a sieve ; add to the 
juice some daritied sugar, boiled to a very high degree ; and, 
if you like, squeeze in the juice of four lemons; it will make 
it more mellow; strain them again through the sieve; put 
them into the idng pot, and finish the same as all other ice& 

PINB APPLB CREAM ICB. 

Use the syrup ; and, when getting thick, add some small 
pieces of pine, cut in dice; all the other process as for former 



OtrSTARDS, OBSAMBy ITa 210 

VRK8H BTRAWBERBT ICK CRKAM. 

If for a quart mould, rub through four or five ounces of the 
ecarlet strawberries into a dean basin ; sweeten it with some 
good thick syrup ; put in the juice of a lemon, half a pint of 
cream, and a glass of clear jelly, if you have it, in dissolved 
isinglass ; in freeang, work it well and repeatedly with your 
spoon, when it begins to thicken and stick to the sides of the 
6neezer ; do not let it be too hard before you put it into your 
mould ; color it, if not a good color, with prepared coloring ; 
paper the top and bottom of your moulds ; bring them in 
small ice and plenty of salt, and let them remain until dessert 
is called ; wash well the moulds from the salt and water, as 
the least drop will spoil your ices ; cut off the projecting top 
and bottom before you dish them. 

CHERRT ICS. 

Stone iwo pounds of ripe cherries ; bruise, and set them on 
the fire, with a little water, and half a pound of sugar ; when 
they have boiled, pass them through a hair sieve into an earthen 
pan ; pound a hand full of the kernels ; put them in a basin, 
with the juice of two lemons ; add to the cherries a pound of 
sugar, and strain on tham the lemon juice and kernels ; mix 
the whole together, and put it into a sorbetiere, with pounded 
ice ; work the cherries up with it well until it has set ; then 
place it in glasses. 

CURRANTS TO ICK. 

Take fresh currants in bunches, and have ready some white 
of egg, well beaten ; dip them in ; lay them abroad ; sifl 
double refined sugar over them thick^ and dry them in a stove 
or oven. 

CHARLOTTE RU88B. 

One ounce of isinglass, eight ounces of loaf sugar, dissolved 
in a glass of warm water ; strain them through a fine sieve ; 



220 PRAOnOAL OOOXBBT. 

beat in a separate bowl five eggs; add one quart of fresb 
cream ; beat this all together with a wire whip, until it is hard. 
Line your dish with slices of sponge cake ; pour in the mixture, 
and put it on ioe» until ready to serve it, Flavor with what 
you please. 

CURRANT ICB CRKAH. 

Put one large spoon full and a half of currant jelly into a 
basin, with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze in one lemon and a 
half; add a pint of cream, and a little cochineal ; then pass it 
through a sieve, and finish in the general way. 

OURRAKT loss. 

Take some picked currants, and squeeze them dirough a 
sieve ; then take some clarified sugar, boiled to a high degree, 
and add it to your currant juice ; and, if you like, squeeze the 
jiiice of four lemons into it, which will make it more mellow ; 
strain it through a sieve again; then put it in an icing pot; 
finish the same as all other ices. 



JELLIES. 

* OLSAR APPLX JBLLT. 

Pare and core some pippins ; put them into a pan, with as 
much water as will cover them ; let them boil gently until 
sofl; let them get cold ; then strain them through a jelly bag ; 
put the juice into your preserving pan, and to each pint of 
juice put one pound of fine sugar and the peel of two lemons ; 
then boil it until it is reduced to the stiffheass of calves' foot 
jelly ; skim it well, and add the juice of a lemon i^\t should 
be made in September — the flavor of the apple 'is better ; if 
yoa caanot get the pippin, any aoid apple will do. 



OUSTAftDS, OMAM % ITO. 821 

APPLS JSLLT. 

Pare and core some tart apples ; boil till soft in plenty of 
water, and strain through a jellj bag. Do not squeeze them. 
Add a pound of white sugar to eadi pint of liquor, and boil 
slowly to a thick jelly. A little cranberry or beet juice, put in 
on removing it from the fire, will give it a red tinge ; or, use 
saffron tincture, or ^inach leaves, to color, if preferred. Strain 
again, and when cool, put into glasses and cover. 

QUINOX JBLLT. 

This may be made in much the same manner as apple jelly. 
Add the white of eggs ; clarify it, and put it into glassea 

APSICOT JILLT. 

Take eighteen fine apricots ; let them be of a nice red color; 
stone them, and cat them in pieces into some syrup, usually 
made with twelve ounces of sugar ; but for apricot jelly it 
should be rather more liquid than for other jellies ; when the 
fruit is done, put it into a napkin to express all the juice you 
posfflbly can, which you must add to the sjrrup in which the 
apricots have been done, and which has been previously strained 
through a silk sieve ; and, after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity of Isin^asa, to thicken it, finish the same as all other 
jellies. 

LBMON JXLLT. 

To a pint of water put an ounce of white ismglass, pulled 
into shreds, and rinsed, and the rinds of six lemons. Stir till 
dissolved, and then add a pint of lemon juice, and sweeten 
with white sugar. Boil four or five minutes; color with tino* 
ture of saffron ; strain, and fill glasses, when nearly cool. 

BTRAVrBKRHT, RASPBKIl&T, AND BLACKBBBRT JXLLT. 

Take the berries when ripe; mash them, and let them drain 
through a flannel bag, without sqoeesing it To each pint of 



222 FRAOTIOAL OOOKBRT. 

juice put a pound of white sugar, and the beaten white of an 
egg to three pounds of the sugar. Set it on the 6re ; when it 
boils up well, take it from the fire, and skim it clear. Set it 
back on the fire ; if any more scum rises, take it firom the fire, 
and skim it o£ Boil it till it becomes a jellj, which is ascer- 
tained hj taking a little of it up into a tumbler of cold water. 
If it fiklls to the bottom in a solid mass, it is sufficiently boiled. 
Seal it up in tumblers or cups. 



ORANBSRRT, GRAPB, AND CUBRAHT JKLLT. 

They are all made in the same manner. Take the fi-uit in 
its prime; wash, and drain it till nearly dry; then put it in an 
earthen jar, or pot, and set the pot in a kettle of hot water to 
boil, taking care that none of it gets into the jar. When the 
fruit breaks, turn it into a flannel bag, and let it drain slowly 
through into a deep dish, without squeezing. When the juice 
has all passed through the bag, put to each pint of it a pound 
and a half of white sugar. Put to each quart of the syrup 
the beaten white of an egg. Set the syrup where it will boil 
goitly ; as fast as any scum rises, take the syrup from the fire, 
and skim it dear. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, and then 
try it in cold water ; if it sinks, it is done. Pour into tumblers, 
sealing them over with white paper smeared with the white of 
egg, (which will make the paper stick to the glass,) and place 
them in the sun till made. 

OUBRAVT JELLT. 

Having stripped off the stems, put the fruit into a stone jar ; 
set it into a kettle of boiling water, until the juice runs freely; 
then strain it through a flannel ; to every pint of juice add a 
pound of loaf sugar ; let it stand till dissolved ; put it in a pre- 
serving kettle, and boil it twenty minutes ; skim it ; put it in 
■mall glasses, and when cold, paste paper over them. 



ODBTAEIW, 0BSAM8, STO. 22S 

OBSRRT JKLLT. 

Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark 
red, fleshy cherries, put them into a basin ; pound the kernels, 
and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a sieve ; mash 
the dierries with a wooden spoon, putting first in half a pot of 
currant jelly, then the kernels, lastly the lemon juice ; mix 
these together well ; then, having boiled and skimmed a pint 
of clarified sugar and isinglass, put the dierries into a jelly bag ; 
pour the sugar, &c,over them; run it through till quite clear; 
if not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar ; if to the contrary, 
add more lemon juice ; wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it 
with the jelly ; do not turn it out till the last minute. 



M088 JKLLT. 

Soak Garragua, or Irish moss, in cold water a few minutes, 
to extract the bitter taste ; then drain off the water, and to 
half an ounce of moss put a quart of fresh water, and a stick 
of cinnamon. Boil till it becomes a thick jelly; then strain it, 
and season it to the taste with white wine and white sugar. 
This is very nourishing, and recommended highly for con- 
sumptive complaints. 

OALVBS* rOOT JKLLT. 

Boil two sets of feet in eight quarts of water, about five 
hours, or until the flesh cleaves from the bones; strain ii, and 
let it stand till it is perfectly cool. Take the grease from the 
top, and the dirt from the bottom. Then to two quarts of jelly 
add three pints of l^Iadeira wine, three quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons with some of the rind, the 
whites of eight eggs, beat very light, with some of the shells ; 
boil it until dissolved, then strain it till it is clear through a 
flannel bag, and put in forms to cooL First wet the forma in 
cold watw. 



234 PRACTICAL COOXXBT. 

AITOTHXB. 

Clean four calves' feet ; chop tbem up and boil tbem in four 
quarts of water till soft, and only one quart remains. Let it 
become perfectly cold, then take off all the fat and scn^ off 
all the dregs that adhere to the jelly. Put the jelly in a pre- 
serving kettle, set it on a slov fire — when it melta^ take it fix)m 
the fire, and mix with it half a {nnt of white wine, the juice and 
grated rind of two firesh lemons, and a stick of cinnamon or 
mace ; take the whites of six eggs and beat them to a froth — 
stir them into the jelly when it is cool — ^bruise the shells, and 
mix them with the jelly, then set it on a few coals. Sweeten 
it, when hot^ to the taste, with white sugar, ^t the whole boil 
slowly fifVeen minutes, without stirring it ; let the jelly drain 
through a flannel bag into a deep dish. If it is not clear the 
first time, let it pass through the bag till it becomes sa The 
bag should not be squeezed, otherwise the jelly will not look 
dear. When transparent, turn it into glasses, and set the glasses, 
if the weather is hot, into cold water, and keep them in a ood 
place. This kind of jelly will keep but a few days^ in warm 
weather. A knuckle of veal, and sheep's feet, makes a nice 
jelly, prepared in the same manner as calf's feet 

LSMON JKI.LT. 

Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute 
It with a little water ; when it boils and has been well skimmed, 
put in two ounces of clarified isinglass with a little lemon peel 
cut very thin ; let these boil till you have squeezed through a 
sieve into a basin the juioe of six lemons, then pass your- sugar 
and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould as any other jelly ; when 
turned out, garnish it with dried jellies. 

TAPIOCA JKLLT. 

Take four tablespoons full of tapioca, rinse H thoroughly, 
and Boak it five hours, in cold water enough to cover it Set 



ft pint of oold water on the ire ; when it boila, mash and stir up 
the ti^ioca that is in water, and mix it with the boOing water. 
Let the whole simmer gently, with a stick of cinnamon or 
mace. When thick and clear, mix a couple of tablespoons 
full of white sugar, with half a tablespoon iutl of lemon juice, 
and halfagla» of white wine; stir it into the jelly ; if not sweet 
enough, add more sugar, and turn the jelly mto cups. 

B^OO JXLLT. 

Rinse four ounces of sago thoroughly ; then soak it in oold 
water half an hour, turn off the water, and put to it a pint and 
a half of fresh cold water. Let it soak in it half an hour, then 
set it where it will boil slowly, stirring it constantly ; boil with 
it a stick of cinnamon. When of a thick consistency, add a 
glass of wine, and white sugar to the taste. Let it boil five 
minutes, then turn it into cupsi 

RATATIA WITHOUT SUGAR OR STRUP. 

Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a 
quarter of an hour, then put it into a large bottle with the k&c- 
nels, and also some apricot kernels ; to this add, if you wish 
the ratafia deep-colored, the juice of two or three pounds of 
black cherries ; put to your juice a half or third of the best 
brandy, and then bottle it, and when the fermentation has 
ceased, cork the bottles ; if the air is excluded this ratafia will 
keep for years. 

WINS JXLLT. 

Take an ounce of isinglass, and break it into a bowl of wa- 
ter ; let it soak while getting the other things ready. Squeeze 
two good sized lemons, take out the seeds, cut the peel and 
pulp in small pieces, and add one pint of water. Take two- 
thirds of a pintof any common wine,8uch as is used for cooking, 
put port wine or Iwandy enough to give it the color you wish, 

fiU up widi water to make one quart ai liquid to an ounoe of 

J* 15 



226 FRACnOAL OOOKSBT. 

isinglass, put all in the kettle, and sweeten to the taste. When 
it boils, add the whites of three e^gs well beaten. Let it boil 
a few moments, then strain it through jour jelly bag. 

ooLORnra 70b jsllibs, caxbs, xtc. 

For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the 
finest powder with a dram and ahalf of cream of tartar in half 
a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour ; add in boiling a bit 
of alum, the size of a pea, or use beet root sliced, and some 
liquor poured over.. 

For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop 
of water, or use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffion steeped in the 
liquor and squeezed. 

For green, pound spinach leaves or beet leaves, express the 
juice, and boil a teacup full in a saucepan of water to take off 
the rawness. 

MARMALADES. 

MARMALADB. 

Marmalade may be composed of almost any fioiit; the best, 
however, for this purpose are apricots, peaches, oranges, quin- 
ces, eggs, plums, apples, &c.; they are usually made by boil- 
ing the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them 
constantly whilst on the fire ; it is kept in pots, which must not 
be covered till the marmalade is quite cold ; the proportion of 
sugar is half a pound to each pound of fruit 

MARMALADE OF APPLXS. 

Scald apples until they will pulp from the core, then take m 
large lumps the same quantity of sugar as apple ; damp the 
sugar in water, then boil them, keeping it well skimmed ; boil 
it until it is a thick syrup, then put it to the pulped apple ; boil 
it over a quick fire for about a quarter of an hour; addthegra- 



CVBTARDB, OKXAMB, BTC. 297 

ting of one lemon and mx dov ea, but take out the doves again ; 
fill your jars. 

TEUNSPARSNT MABMALADB. 

Select very pale Seville oranges, cut them into quarters, and 
remove the pulp ; put it into a basin and take away all skin 
and seeds. Soak the peels all night in a little salt and water^ 
then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till tender ; 
cut them in very thin slices and add them to the pulps. To 
every pound of marmalade add one and a half pounds of double 
refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them together gently for 
twenty minutes. If it is not suffidently dear, boil or simmer 
for five or six minutes longer ; keep stirring gently all the time, 
taking care not to break the slices. When cold, put it into 
jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie down with brandied paper. 

APSZOOT MARMALADE, 

Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them 
those which are of the deepest ydlow and the ripest, they must 
not be too ripe ; peel them, take out the stones, and chop them 
up, weigh twdve pounds of them, and put them into a preserv- 
ing pan with nine pounds of sugar, place your pan over a quick 
fire, and keep your preparation constantly stirring with a long 
wooden spoon ; to find out when the marmalade is sufficiently 
done, let a few drops &11 into a glass of cold water, and if they 
do not spread in the water your marmalade is ready to put 
in potSk 

OHBRRT MARMALADS. 

Boil two pounds of sugar with two glasses of water, skim it 
well until, on shaking the skimmer after dipping it in the sup 
gar, the latter drops from it like ioides, then you may put in 
four pounds of cherries picked and stoned; boil them, and 
when the marma]ad>e flows readily, take it fimn the firs and put 
it into potn 



KUCTICAL COO&ABT. 



eaRRAVT If ARMALADB. 



Strip your currants off from the bundles, and soak them in 
boiling water until they break ; then take them off the fire and 
lay them on a sieve to drain, and when they are cold pass them 
through the same sieve to clear off the seeds, and then dry diem 
over the fire till you bring your sugar to the fifth degree of 
bofling, allowing as mndtk sugar as fruit ; mix all well together, 
flimmOT it over the fire some time, then put the marmalade 
into pota. 

OBAMOS MAAMALADB. 

Blanch the rinds of fSfleen oranges without any of the white, 
tm soft,^ then soak them in cold water for a few minutes ; dram 
and pound them to a paste, whidi rub through a sieve ; ascer- 
tain its weight, and for each pound allow a pound and a half 
of sugar ; clarify and boil the sugar till the bubbles rise strongly 
to the surface ; put in the paste and boil them t<^ether, stirring 
oottthiually till the marmalade is done. To know when the 
marmalads is fit to turn oat and be potted, take some up b»> 
tween your thumb and finger, and if od <^»eiiiBg them it draws 
oat like a thread, it is done. 

<^INO MA&MALADB. 

Gather the fruit when fully ripe and of a fine yellow ; pare, 
quarter, and core it ; put the quinces into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle water ; set them on the fire until they are quite sofl, then 
take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain ; rub them 
through, weigh the palp, boil an eqoal quantity <^ sugar, then 
add the pulp ; stir them together over the fire until it will fisdl 
from the spoon like a jelly. The marmalade is thui tit to be 
put into pots, and when odd^ cover them doae. 



OJSSXAMIMy CEXAMB, XTO. 229 

RASPBKRET lUBMAULDB. 

Take double the weight of raspberries to that of sugar ; rub 
the fruit through a sieve and put the pulp into a saucepan, set 
it on the fire and stir till it b reduced to half; then pour oa the 
sugar previously clarified, stir it well in, put it oo the fire^ give 
It a few boils, and then pour it into pots. 

BLANGMANQE& 

BLAirCMAHOE. 

In three pints of water put two ounces of isinglass ; let it 
boil for thirty minut^ strain it into a pint and a half of cream, 
sweeten it, and add a few bitter almonds ; boil it up once, let 
it settle, then turn it into any mould you intend to use. 

RICB BLANCHANQS. 

Take one pint of new milk, add to it two ^gs well beaten, 
four spoons full of ground rice, two spoons full of brandy ; grate 
a little nutmeg, sweeten it to your taste, boil it ; when near 
cold put it into your mould ; when quite cold turn it out, mix a 
little sugar, cream, and nutmeg, and put round it in the dbh ; 
garnish with red currant jelly. 

CORN STARCH BLANCMAVOB. 

Dissolve three tablespoons full of com starch in new milk ; 
heat a pint of new milk nearly boiling hot, then pour in the 
starch, stir it briskly and boil for three minutes. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

BLANCMANGB. 

One ounce of isinglass to one quart of milk ; add sugar, cin- 
namon and mace to your taste, put it by the fire until the isin- 
glass is dissolved, strain it, and put it in moulds to cool. 



230 PRAOnOAL OOOKEET. 

BLAVCBCAHOS. 

Break one otmoe of iainglass in very small pieces and wash 
^ell. Pour on a pint of boiling water ; next morning add a 
quart of milk, and boil until the isinglass is dissolved, and 
strain it Put in two ounces of blanched almonds pouuded, 
sweeten with loaf sugar, and turn in the mould. Stick thin 
slips of almonds all over the blancmange and dress around 
with syllabub, or whip oream. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

CONFECTIONERY, PRESERVED FRUITS; 

ETC. 

A YSBT common disoorery made by those who preserve 
fruits, &C., for &mQ J use, and are not sufficiently versed in the 
art of confectionery is, that the preserve either ferments, grows 
mouldy, or becomes candied. 

These three effects arise from three separate causes. The 
first, from insoffident boiling ; the second, from being kept in 
a damp place, assisted, in some degree, by the first cause ; and 
the third, from too quick and too long boiling. 

Preserves of all kinds should be kept entirely secluded from 
the «r, and in a dry place. In ranging them on the shelves 
of a store-closet, they should not be suffered to come in con- 
tact with the walL Moisture in winter and spring exudes from 
some of the dryest walls, and preserves invariably imbibe it. 
To prevent all risks, it is always as well to lay a brandy pa- 
per over the fruit before tymg down. This may be r^iewed 
in the spring. They should be looked to frequently to see that 
they do not ferment Whenever they do, the syrup should 
be tunied from them, scalded, and turned back on them while 
hot. 

A poimd of sugar to a pound of fruit, is sufficient to pre- 
serve most kinds of fruit Some kinds require more and some 
less, than an equal weight of sugar. White sugar makes the 
most delicate sweetmeats— nice brown sugar answers very 
well for most kinds of fruit The West India sugar-house 
syrup is better than sugar to preserve fruit, on account of its 
never fermentkig. When sugar la uaed, danfy it^ and put in 



5233 PBAOTIOAL COOKXRT. 

the finit The skimmer should never he left in the preserr* 
ing pan after the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum is re- 
moved. 

In boiling, the sugar is continuously rising and filing, and 
on falling, leaves marks on the side of the pan, which the heat 
of the fire would soon bum, and thereby spoil the whole of the 
sugar. To avoid this, have by the side of you a pan of cold 
water, and a doth or sponge, upon which wipe the sides of the 
pan carefully the instant after the sugar has fidlen. 

All kinds of fire-proof ware will do to preserve in, except- 
ing iron ware. The fruit should not be crowded while preserve 
ing, and should boil gently. The fruit should be turned out 
of the preserving kettles as soon as done, and set away. Keep 
the sweetmeats in stone or China jars^ that have never been 
used for other purposes. Glass jars are the best for delicate 
sweetmeats, such as strawberries or cherries. Preserves should 
be covered tight, and kept in a cool place. 

Fruit may be dried in a stove oveu or in the sun — ^if in the 
sun, cover with glass to keep off insects ; if in oven, it must 
be of gentle warmth. 

TO olarut buoar. 

Take the quantity of fine white loaf sugar you intend to 
clarify, add to it of very clean warm water half a pint for ev* 
ery pound ; when dissolved, add to it the white of one or two 
eggs — as the quantity may require — ^well whipped, put it on the 
fire, and when it comes to a boil, pour into it an ordinary tea- 
cup full of cold water ; on its rising again to a boil, remove it 
and let it settle twenty minutes ; skim the scum from the top, 
pour off the syrup into a clean vessel with sufficient quickness 
to leave all the sediment at the bottom, and such steadiness as 
to prevent any of the latter rising and mixing with it. 



OOirnBOTIONXBY, PH£aBRV88, BTO. 233 

OOLORKD 81TOAR8 FOR ORNAMSNTINO. 

Pound some sugar, and sift it through a coarse sieve ; lay a 
little upon a plate ; pour into it a few drops of carmine, or 
prepared cochineal, mixing it well in ; then put it into your 
screen to dry, stirring it frequently ; keep it dry in a canister 
for use when required. 

OBXm SUGAR* 

Pound a few haods full of fresh gathered yoong spinach ; let 
it be well washed and drained from the water ; pound it well, 
stalks and all ; then twist it through a sieve into a stew pan 
with a little salt ; put this liquor on the fire to simmer, and 
when it is well curdled, strain off the water fk>m the curd upon 
the back of a lawn sieve ; rub it through the sieve on to a 
plate ; use some of this to some sifted sugar, as for the former. 

This is the wholesome coloring in green pea soups or force- 
meats. 

SUGAR PASTB. 

One pound of fk>ur, four ounces of sugar, four ounces of 
butter, a little salt, one egg ; mix together with a little wa- 
ter. This is an excellent paste for a second course dish. 

TO OANDT BRUIT. 

Having prepared your fruit, steep it in the syrup, and lay 
it when done in an open sieve, until the bottom is covered with 
one layer; steep this suddenly in scalding water. This will 
remove any syrup whieb may cling to the fruit Lay them 
aside on a napkin to drain, and go on with the others. You 
will have ready, finely powdered, some of the best loaf sugar ; 
sift this over the fruit until they are white all over, without 
being too thickly encrusted ; lay them so as not to touch each 
other on straioers, or the reverse end of small sieves ; place 
timm in a gently wanned oven ; wateh them carefully, turning 



234 PRACTICAL COCXSRT. 

them until dry. The warmth of the oven must not be m 
creased, but must not abate until the fruit is quite dry. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING. 

For this purpose, have syringes of different sizes ; draw any 
one you may dioose full of the icing, and work it in any de- 
signs you may fimcy — wheels, Grecian border, or flowers, look 
well, or borders of beading. The cake must, of course, first be 
covered with a plain frosting, which may be white. 

LBMON CANDT. 

Take three pounds of brown sugar and three teacups full of 
water, and set it over a slow fire for half an hour ; add a lit- 
tle gum Arabic, dissolved in hot water ; skim it as long as 
any rises. When perfectly dear, try it by taking a spoon full 
of it into a saucer ; if it is done, it will snap like glass. Fla- 
vor with essence of lemon, and cut it in sticks. 

Peppermint or hoarhound candy may be made in the same 
way by substituting the essence, or finely powdered hoarhound, 
for lemon. 

M0LAB6B8 OANDT. 

Boil a pint of common molasses over a slow fire ; stir it to 
prevent its running over. When it has boiled for some time, 
try it, by taking some in a saucer; when cold, if it is brittle 
and hard, it is done. Flavor with essence of lemon, or oth- 
erwise. 

Or, pull it in your hands^ alter first having rubbed them 

over with sweet butter, to prevent the candy fit>m sticking to 
them during the process. 

TO PBX8KRVB APRICOTS. 

Choose fine apricots, pare them thinly and deanly, and when 
done take their weight ; cat them in halves and remove die 



ooNracnomRT, peiskrtss, ito. 235 

kernels ; lay them with the inside upwards ; take the same 
weight of pounded loaf sugar and strew over them ; break 
the stones of the apricots, and blanch the kernels ; let the fruit 
lie in the sugar for twelve hours; then put fruit, sugar, juice, 
and kernels into a preserving pan ; simmer gently until dear ; 
as the scum rises, remove it ; remove the halves of the apri* 
cots ; as they become cold lay them in jars, and when the 
whole of the fruit has been potted, pour equally over th^^m 
the syrup and the kernels. Cover the fruit with brandy pa- 
per and tie tightly down. 

APRIGOTB IN BRAVDT. 

Pick the fruit, wipe it, and then take the weight ; put it into 
an ioe pot, the lid of which fits very close ; add one-fourth of 
the weight in finely powdered white sugar ; cover the fi'uit 
with the best brown brandy ; lay over the fruit a piece of 
foolscap paper, doubled ; cover down the lid and place the ice 
pot in a saucepan of hot water, increasing the heat until the 
brandy is sufi!iciently hot to admit your finger remaining in it ; 
it must not^ however, boil ; take out the fruit when this takes 
place, put it into a jar and pour the brandy over it. As sooa 
as quite cold, tie bladder skin tightly over the jars. 

Peaches may be preserved in the same way. 

TOPBXSXRVS PKAOHXS. 

^rst weigh your peaches, then dip them in weak boiling 
lye, without being peeled; take them out and rub them 
gently with a coarse towel ; be very carefiil not to break the 
peel. Have your syrup ready, made of a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit, scald the peaches in it, and add to a peck of 
p^u^es, one quart of white brandy, while the syrup is hot 



296 PEACnCAL OOOKBET. 

OOLDBN PIPPINS, TO PRX8IRTB. 

Take the rind of an orange, boil It very tender, and lay it in 
cold water for three days ; take two dozen golden pippins, pare, 
core and quarter them, boil them to a strong jelly, and run it 
through a jelly bag till it is dear. Take the same quantity of 
pippins, pare and core them, and put three pounds of loaf su- 
gar in a preserving pan with a pint and a half of spring water ; 
let it boil, skim it well, and put in your pippins with the or- 
ange rind cut into long, thin slips ; let them boil fast till the 
sugar becomes thick, and will almost candy ; then put in a pint 
and a half of pippin jelly, and boil till the jelly is clear ; then 
squeeze in the juice of a fine lemon ; give the whole another 
boil, and put the pippins in pots or glasses with the orange 
peel. Lemon peel may be used instead of oraQge but then il 
must only be boiled and not soaked. 

TO BAKB APPLXS WHOLB. 

Put some sound apples into a pan with a little doves, a 
small portion of lemon peel, some brown sugar, a glass of red 
wine, or according to the quantity of fruit ; put them into a 
quick ov^ and bake them at least one hour. The sugar in 
quantity must be regulated according to the number of apples. 

APPLSS PBKSXKVXD QT SLIOBS. 

When the pippins are prepared, but not cored, cut them 
into slices ; take their equal weight of loaf sugar, put to the 
sugar a sufficient quantity of water ; let the sugar dissolve, 
skim it, and let it boil again very high ; then put the fruit into 
the syrup. When they are clear, lay them in shallow glasses 
in which they are to be served ; put into the syrup a candied 
orange peel cat into thin slices, and lay them about the pip- 
pins; cover them with syrup. 



oomrsononBT, pBSBBBVSBy sra ft87 

BOTTLXD ASPARAGUS. 

Gean the asparagus as for boiling ; before you bottle, plunge 
them first into boiling, then into cold water; plaoe those 
whioh are unbroken carellilly into bottles, the heads downwards. 

SABBXRam. 

Take one pound of sugar to one pound of barberries. Boil 
and skim the sugar ; put in your barberries, and let them boil 
a few minutes. If you wish to keep tfaem any length of time, 
they will require frequent scalding. 

BARSaRBIXS FOR TARTLBTS. 

Take barberries, the quantity you intend to use ; weigh, and 
for every pound put aside three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
sugar ; put the barberries in a stone jar, and put it nearly to 
the neck in warm water ; let it simmer until the fruit is soft, 
then turn them into the preserving pan, add the sugar, and boil 
gently a quarter of an hour. As the fruit is a strong add, no 
metal but silver should be used. 

BISCUIT or PRXSBRVXD PRUTTS AKD SWBETMBATS. 

Take dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, grapes, plums, 
oranges, and a little orange flower marmalade, pound them to- 
gether and aft in a sieve ; mix the yolks of new laid eggs, and 
fine powdered sugar therewith till it comes to a paste but not 
too liquid ; bake upon a paper in a moderate oven. 

BLACK TOPS 8IMPLX RBCIPX. 

Halve and core some lai^e apples ; lay them in a shallow 
pan, and sift some white sugar over them ; bake them until 
tender through ; make a sauce of one glass of wine, and one 
glass of water, boiled ; sweeten to taste. 



288 FKAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

CHKRRIXS IN BRANDT. 

Choose the finest and ripest cherries; leave on half the 
«talks, and put them into very cold water ; in about half an 
hour take them out, and drain them on a sieve ; weigh them ; 
to every pound of fruit allow a quarter of a pound of sugar ; 
when you have clarified and boiled it, put in the fruit ; boil 
them up two or three times, stirring them gently with a skim* 
mer, then take them from the fire carefully, and put. the cher- 
ries into bottles or glass jara ; when filled, add to each twelve 
doves and half an ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag ; 
put to the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy in proportion of a 
pint and a half to a pound of fruit ; mix them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two months' time taste 
them, and if sufficiently flavored, take out the cloves and cin- 
namon ; cover the jars close. 

CHERRUS DRIKD WITHOUT SUGAR. 

Stone your cherries and put them in tl\eir own liquor in your 
preserving pan ; let them simmer gently, keep them moving, 
then put them on dishes all night \ the next day repeat the 
same process over the fire, and when cold put them upon sieves 
to get dry, in a cool oven, an hour ; do this twice. Put them 
away m boxes with white paper between them. 

OHBRRIES PRISBRVXD DRT IN BUN0HX8. 

Tie up some fine, equal -sized cherries in bunches seven or 
eight each ; fasten them by the ends of the stalks, throw them 
into sugar that has been boiled ; let the cherries boil up in it 
fourteen or fifteen times, then skim and pour it into an 
earthen pan ; set it on a stove till next day, when drain and lay 
out the cherries to dry. To each pound of fruit allow an 
equal quantity of sugar. 



ocnmcnosnTi pRxn&yss, stc 

CHKRBIX8 TO CANDT. 

Hie fruit must be gathered before it is ripe; pride and steoa 
tfaem ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. 

CBKRRnea to kkxp. 

Cat die stalks carefullj from sound and perfectly drj dier- 
ries^ and put them into dean and dry bottles ; when fiill, cork 
them tight^ and rosin or seal them ; bury them in the ground, 
with the corks downwardsL 

CHBRRT JAM. 

Haying stoned and boiled three pounds of fine cherries, 
braise them and let the juice run from them ; then boil to- 
gether half a pound of red currant juice, and half a pound 
of loaf sugar ; put the cherries into these whilst they are boil- 
ing, and strew on them three-quarters of a pound of sifled su- 
gar ; boil all together very fikst for half an hour, and then put 
it into pots ; when cold, put on brandy papers. 

BLACK CURBAKT JAM. 

Gather your currants on a dry day, when they are fully ripe ; 
pick them from the stalks, wash them well, and to every pound 
of currants put a pound of double refined sugar, beaten and 
sifted ; put them in a preserving pan, boil them half an hour, 
akim and keep them stirring all the time, then put them into 
pots ; when cold, put brandy paper over them, and tie white 
paper over all. 

CURRANT JAM OF ALL COLORS. 

Strip your currants, and put them into your pan, with three 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; add your 
sugar after your fruit has boiled a few minutes — boil all to- 
gether, mashing your firuit with a wooden spoon; boil all 
gently for half an hour, then fill your janu 



1240 PRACTICAL COOXBRT. 

CURRANTS PRESS RVBD. 

■ 

Take whatever quantity of currants you intend to use, of 
which a fourth part mui>t be white currants ; put thein into a 
preserving pan with a glass of water ; let them boil up until 
the fruit bursts, then strain the juice twice ; darify and boll 
some sugar, an equal weight to the fruit, pour the juice on it| 
boil them together a quarter of an hour, and having skimmed 
it well, pour it into pota 

CURRANTS FOR TARTS, TO PRB8KRVB. 

Put a pound of sugar into a preserving pan ; for every pound 
and a quarter of currants have a sufficient quantity of currant 
juice to dissolve the sugar ; when it boils, skim it^ and put in 
the currants, and boil them till they are very clear ; put them 
into a jar, cover them with brandy paper, and keep them in a 
dry place. 

WHITB CITRON PRB8BRVBD. 

Lay some white citron, cut into pieces, in salt and water for 
four or five hours, then having washed them in cold water, boil 
them ; when tender, drain, and lay them into as much clarified 
sugar as will cover them ; next day drain oflf the syrup and 
boil it. When quite smooth and cold, pour it on the citron ; 
let them stand twenty-four hours, boil the syrup and put in the 
citrons ; the third day boil both together, and put them into 
moulds to candy. 

DRIBD DAM 80N& 

Take damsons that you have preserved, drain all the syrup 
from them, cover the bottoms of sieves with tiiem, and put 
them into stoves which should be hot ; change the sieves ev* 
ery day till they are dry, and as you change the sieves turn 
the damsons, and when they are not stidky, take them out ; 
paper a box and put them in, laying paper between each layer. 



COKFVGnOKBRT, PRXSSRYBS, WO, 241 

TO KEKP DAM80M8. 

Put them in small stone jars or wide-mouthed botUes ; set 
them up to their necks in a boiler of oold water, and lighting 
a fire under, scald them ; next day, when they are quite oold, 
fill up with spring water, and cover them closely. 

TO PREflERVX TRUITS FOR TART0 OR OTHER FAlf ILT DB8SBRTB. 

Qierriea, plums of all sorts, and apples, gather when ripe, 
and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over 
each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar, pounded ; cover with 
two bladders, each separately tied down ; then put the jars up 
to the neck in a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently 
for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from 
damp. 

OHERX3N8 FOR SALADS, OR PIOKLBO. 

The best sort are the Dutch ; they are used when boiled 
for garnishing salads and ragodts. For boiling, let them remain 
one minute in boiling water ; then put them into the rago(it, 
or a good sauce, but they must not be permitted to boil again. 
For pickling, choose the greenest ; cut off tails and head^ and 
rub off the down ; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar ; pour 
over enough of the best vinegar to cover them, and let them 
stand for three days ; then draw off the vinegar, and boil it ; 
when a little reduced, throw in the gherkins, and boil them to- 
gether, and throw the whole into a jar, again. In six days re- 
move them ; boil them again, adding garlic and salt; return 
them to the jar, and do not cover them until the vinegar is 
oold. 

OOOSSfiBRRIBib, PRESERVED. 

Put one quart of red currant juice to five pounds of loaf 

sugar ; set it on the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put 

in eight pounds of ripe gooseberries ; let them boil half an 

hour then put them into an earthen pan, and let them stand 

K 16 



243 PBAOnCAL OOOKXRT. 

for two days ; boQ them again UII they look dear ; put them 
into pots and let them stand a week, to dry a little at the top ; 
then cover them with brandy papers. 

OOOSSBIRRT JAM. 

Take what quantity you please of ripe gooseberries, and 
half their quantity of lump sugar, break them well and boil 
them togedier for half an hour or more, if necessary; put 
them into pots, and cover with paper. 

PEACH JAM. 

Take the fruit when ripe, peel and stone them, put them 
into the pan, and mash them over the fire, till hot; rub 
them through a sieve, and to each pound of pulp add a pound 
of white sugar and half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched 
and pounded ; let it boil ten or fifteen minutes, and stir and 
■kim it well 

ORAFSS PRXSKRVKD IN OLUSTKRS. 

Take the large grapes before they are too ripe, and pick ev- 
ery one ; to every pound of grapes put a pound and a quarter 
of sugar ; make a syrup of the verjuice, strained ; when the su- 
gar is quite clear, put the grapes, after they are strained, into the 
syrup into a deep jar, cover them close, and set them in a pot of 
scalding water over the fire to boil ; as soon as the grapes are 
tender, take them up and boil the syrup a little more ; when 
they are half cold, put them into broad glasses or straight jars, 
lay one cluster over the other, cover them over widi brandy 
papers^ and tie them up, 

ORESN GAGES. 

Weigh a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; the largest, 
when they begin to get soft, are the best ; split them, and take 
out tha keriMlai and stew them in part of the sugar; take out 



OOHVBCnOVBftT, P KBRBE V M , RO. 243 

AekernebfitMn the sheila, and blanch them; the next day strain 
off the syrup, and boil it with the remaining sugar about ton 
minutes; skim it, and add the fruit and kernels ; skim it until 
dear ; put it into small pota^ with sjrup and keraela. 

ORKXH OAOXB, DUXD. 

Take presenred green gages, and put them over the fire to 
warm ; drain all the syrup from them ; put them on sieves 
and into the stove ; change and turn them every day, or they 
will stick ; let them remain in the stove for three days ; then 
put them into papered bozes^ with a sheet of paper between 
each layer of fruit 

ORUni OAOB JAM. 

Take some ripe green gages, and rub them through a large 
hah* sieve ; put them into a preserving pan ; add a pound of 
sifted sugar to each pound of pulp ; then boil to a proper thick- 
ness; skim it, and put it into small pots. 

TO KKBP ORAKOBS OR LSM0K8 FOR PUDDINGS. 

When you have squeezed the fruit, take out the pulp ; throw 
the outsides into water, with a little salt ; let them remain a 
fimrtnight ; then boil them till quite tender ; strain them, and 
wh«i they are nearly dry, throw them into a jar ; if you have 
any old syrup lefl, add it to them ; if you have none, boil a 
little syrup of common loaf sugar and water, and put over them ; 
in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it, till they look 
clear ; and, that they may be covered with it in the jar, you 
may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy 
less space. 

NXCTARINR8 TO PRBSRRVR. 

Split the nectarines, and take out the stones ; then put them 
into clarified silgar ; boil them till they have thoroughly taken 
the sugar; take off the scum ; cover them with a paper, and 



344 PAKrnoAL ooosnn** 

* 

set them bj ; the following day boil a little more sugar ; put 
it to the nectarines, and give them a good boil ; take off the 
•cum ; cover them, and put them into a stove ; the next daj 
drain them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted 
them a little with sugar; then put them in the stove again. 

PBARS, BAKID. 

Take half a dozen fine pears ; peel, cut them in halves, and 
take out the cores ; put them into a pan with some doves, half 
a pound of sugar, and some water ; set them in a moderate 
oven till tender ; then put them on a slow fire to stew gently ; 
add grated lemon peel, and more sugar, if necessary ; they 
will be sufiiciently red ; or they may be baked in a tin, with 
half a teacup of molasses, or sugar, and the same of water. 

PBARS TO KEEP. 

Choose the soundest ; peel and out them into quarters; take 
out the cores, and put the pieces into bottles, which place in 
boiling water. If the pears are intended for dessert, one boil- 
ing is sufiicient ; but if for cooking, they must boil five or six 
times; should the fruit thus bottled have fallen from the tree, 
instead of being gathered, they will require a quarter of aa 
hour boiling. 

PEARS, JARGONELLE. 

Pare them very thin and smooth ; boil them gently in a 
thin syrup; let them lie a day or two in this syrup; add more 
sugar to the syrup, and boil the pears again ; put them by 
again, and keep daily repeating it, until they are clear ; then 
dry them on a hair sieve, in the sun or the hot closet ; keep 
what is not wanted for drying, in syrup. Boil in some of the 
same syrup, thinly pared in lengths, some orange and temon 
peels ; add all the syrups together ; put this peel for a garnish 
whan dished* 



ooHnonoinaar, psanufES, no. M5 



These maj be preserved whole, pared with the stems on, 
or in halves, oored. Make a thin syrup, and boil them tender. 
If bdled too fiist, they will break. They will be sufficiently 
cooked in half an hoar. If you wish them nice, let them lie 
in the syrup, in a jar or tureen, two days. Drmn the syrup 
from the pears ; add more sugar ; boil ten minutes ; skim, and 
put in the pears ; simmer them till ihey are transparent; take 
them out ; stidc a clove in the end of each, and ky them in a 
jar when cool ; then pour over the warm symp. For oomr 
mon use, they are best done in quarters, b(»led tender in a lit- 
tle water ; then add half a pound (^ sugar to a pound of peara 
to the liquor, and simmer them gently half an hour. They 
may be flavored with lemon, if preferred. 



If preserved whole, they should be gathered before they are 
fully ripe, and before they part from the stone. Pare them, 
and boil in the syrup gently, until they are tender. If in quar- 
ters, crack the pits of half the peadies, and boil in the syrup ; 
strain, and cook in the usual way. Put up in jars and glasses. 
Some prefer them cooked in a little water, and the syrup 
poured over them hot. 

If you wish them preserved in brandy, they should be gath- 
ered before they are ripe, rubbed with flannel, pricked with a 
large needle to the pit, in several places, and run the needle 
down the seam. Put them in cold water, and boil them very 
gently until tender. Take them carefully out, and fold them 
in a table*cloth or sofl; flannel. Have ready a pint of brandy, 
a pint of the juice in which they were boiled, and a pound of 
loaf sugar. When the peaches are cool, lay them in a jar, and 
pour over them. They may be used as a dessert. 



246 PBAOTICAL OOOKBRT. 

PLUMB, OAHBIBD. 

Choose your fruit of a nioe shape, and good sise ; cut diem 
in halves ; lay them on a large shallow dish ; strew powdered 
sugar over them, and put them in a moderate oven, tightly 
dosed ; ni half an hour's time take them out, and place the 
plums, one by one, on glass plates, to dry. 

PLOMS — PRMBBBTBD. 

Maybe preserved nioe with the skins on or off If on, they 
should be pricked at the top and bottom, with a large needle. 
If you take them off, first turn boiling water over them. 
Plums require a pound and a half of sugar to a pound of fruit 
Prepare your syrup thick, and lay in your plums to simmer, 
not to boil ; let them remain in a scalding state until cooked 
through, at least two houra Then skim out, and boil the li- 
quor down about an hour. It ibust be thick, to keep welL 
The flavor will be much improved, by boiling in the syrup 
half a pint of the kernels, cracked. They must be strained 
out Plums may be hardened by scalding them in alum war 
ter ; and when drained, pour the hot syrup over them every 
day for a week ; but if done with care, they will remain whole, 
preserved as above. 

QmNCXS PRS8SRVBD. 

Choose the quinces very ripe, yellow, and quite sound ; pare, 
quarter, and core them; put them into a little water, and scald ; 
as soon as ihey are soft, throw into cold water, and put them 
to drain ; clarify and boil an equal weight of sugar ; put in the 
fruit, cover, and leave them to simmer for another quarter of 
an hour ; then take them from the fire ; skim, and pour the 
preserves into a pan. In two days, drain off the syrup ; boil 
it ; add the fruit ; give the whole one boil, covered ; let it cool 
a little, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour ; after which 
leave it till neait day, when proceed as above, but boil the 



ODimCTIOSS&Ty PBgK E VM, STa M7 

synip. As soon as the preserve is cooled, put it into pots, 
adding to each a little quince jelly. 

A little prepared cochineal added to the above will give 
the preserve a fine red color, in which case the jelly ought to 
be red also. 

TO xsxp Qumcxs. 

Giather the fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; rub each 
carefully with a clean doth, to remove the down ; then quarter 
and put them into bottles, corked tight ; give them half an 
hour's boil in water. 

TO XZXP RASPBXRRIXa. 

This fruit may be bottled for keeping, like cherries ; they 
must not be. more than just ripe. 

RA8PBXRRIX8 PRX8KRVBD. 

Take five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe, raspberries ; 
pick, and put them into a preserving pan, with an equal weight 
of clarified sugar ; when they have boiled up about a dozen 
times, skim and pour the whole into a pan, till the next day ; 
then drain the fruit, and put it into jars ; put to the syrup 
about two glasses of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil the 
sugar again, and pour it over the raspberries ; add aflerward 
about a spoon full of currant juice to each pot, and when cold, 
lay on brandy paper, and tie them down. 

RASPBKRRT JAM. 

To every pound of fruit use a pound of sugar, but always 
boil the fruit well before you add the sugar to it — it will be a 
better color ; put your fruit in your preserving pan, mashing 
them with a long wooden spoon; aHer boiling them a few 
minutes, add the same quantity of sugar as fruit, boiling it for 
half an hour, keeping it well stirred. When sufficiently re- 
duced, fill your jars. 



248 FKAOnOAL COOKIBT* 

▲PPLB SNOW. 

Put twelve good tart a^^es in odd water, and set them orer 

a slow fire; when soft, drain off the water, strip the sktns of 

the apples, core them, and laj them in a deep dish. Beat the 

whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth ; put half a pound Kji 

powdered white sugar to the apples; heat them to a stiff froth, 

and add the beaten eggs. Beat the whole to a stiff snow ; 

then turu it into a dessert dish, and ornament it with mjrtle 

or box. 

\ 

PIKB APPLBab 

Take those that are ripe and fr'esh ; pare off the xind, and 
cut in slices half an inch thick. Sprinkle between them pow- 
dered loaf sugar, and let them remain till the next day. Theo 
with the usual sjrup boil until tender, putting them in when it 
is cold. Keep it in a cool place. 

QUmCBS FOR THK TABLB. 

We know, from personal observation, that few parsons are 
acquainted with the best method ^ preparing quinces for the 
table ; it is simplj this : Bake them, remove the skin, slice, 
and serve with cream and sugar. Prepared in this manner, 
many prefer them to the peach. If jou have never eaten them 
prepared in this way, try it, by all means, and you will thank 
us for the suggestion. 

RHUBARB PRBSXRVBD* 

Rhubarb preserve, if made according to the Allowing diteo- 
tions, is almost equal to the celebrated Scotch marmalade. 
Procure six oranges, peel, and take away the white rind and 
the seeds ; slice the pulp into the stewpan, along with the peel; 
cut very small ; add a quart of rhubarb, cut fine, and from one 
pound to one pound and a half of loaf sugar ; bdl the whole 
down, as fx other preserves. 



0OK7SCTI0NXRT, PRXSKRTXB, BTa 240 

SIBSBIAV CRAB8, PRXSSBVED. 

Take their weight in sugar ; make a sjrup with apple jelly ; 
when well boiled, pride the crabs and put into it ; let them 
boil a few minutes ; then take them out, and put them on a 
sieve to drain ; when oold, put them again into the syrup; boil 
St a few minutes more, and drain them as before ; do this a 
third time, obterving the same rules as at first ; then put them 
into glasses or jara^ and pour the jelly, boiling, over them. 



8TBAWBBBBT JAM. 

Take some scarlet strawberries, quite ripe; bruise them 
well, and add the juice of other strawberries ; take an equal 
weight of lump sugar ; pound and sift it ; stir it thoroughly 
into the fruit, and boil it twenty minutes, over a slow fire, ta- 
king off the scum as it rises ; pour it into glasses or jars, and 
when cold tie them down. 

STBAWBERRIKS PRX8ERVSD IN WINS. 

Put some very Irj^e strawben-ies into a gooseberry bottldi 
and strew in three spoons full of fine sui^ar ; fill up with Ma« 
deria or good sherry. 

8TBAWBSRRIX8 PRSSKRVKD WHOLl. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and double refined sugar ; 
lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in 
fine powder over ; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the 
sugar may touch the under side of the fruit ; next day make 
a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and instead of 
water, allow one pint of red currant juice to every pound of 
strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied; 
choose the largest scarlets or others, when not dead ripe ; 
th^ eat well served ia thin oraam in glasses. 



2B0 rajLoncAL cooksbt. 

TOMATO WIQB. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to remove the skins ; 
weigh them, and put them into a stooe jar, with as much su;:ar 
as tomatoes ; let them stand two days ; pour off the syrup, 
and boll and skim till no scum riaes^ tbeo pour it over the to* 
matoes^ and let them stand two dajs, as before ; boil and 
skim again. After a third boiling and skimming, let them 
stand In their syrup until drying weather; then plaoe them on 
earthoi plates or dishes^ and put them in the sun to dry — that 
takes about a week ; then pack them in small wooden boxes^ 
with fine white sugar between each layer. They will keep fi>r 
years. Figs made of tomatoes ace veally better than those 
made of true fifk 



CHAPTERXX. 
PICKLES. 

BULBS TO BB OBfiBBTBD Dff PIOCUBe. 

Pbocurb always the best rinegar. Vinegar is so grossly 
adulterated that it is really difficolt to obtain it pure. The 
success of your pickle depends on the goodness of your vinegar. 

Use glass bottles or stone jars for your pickles ; if earthen 
jars^ they must be unglazed, as the yinegar, acting upon the 
glazing, produces a mineral poison. Use sauce pans lined with 
earthen ware, or stone pipkins, to boO your vinegar in. If 
you are compelled to use tin, do not let your vinegar remain 
in it one moment longer than actually necessary ; employ also 
wooden knives and forks in the preparation of your pickles. 
Fill your jars three parts full with the articles to be pickled, 
and then add vinegar up to the neck of the jar or bottle. 

When greening, keep the pickles covered down, or the evap- 
oration of the steam will injure the color ; a little alum may 
be added to crisp the pickles, but it should be very small in 
proportion to the qnantity, or it will give a disagreeable flavor. 

Pickles should occasionally be looked over, that the softest 
and those least likely to keep well may be used first Store 
pckles, or those intended for use the following summer, should 
be assorted fixim the remainder when first made ; choose those 
most firm ; put them into stone or glass vrare, with fresh vin- 
egar to cover them ; cover the vessel dose. 

Beans, radish pods^ tomatoes^ small oocumben, green pluma^ 
and naeturtions maybe put in a jar together for Msortedjpioh- 



7S2 PRAOnOAL OOOKXRT. 

lea, with a few onions, if liked. Five or tax peppers amongst 
two or three hundred cucumbers will make them suffidentlj 
strong. Should the vinegar on pickles become white or weak- 
ened, turn it off, scald, and skim it, and return it to them either 
hot or cold. 

ASPARAGUS PIOKLXD. 

Gut and wash the green heads of the largest asparagus ; let 
them lie two or three hours in cold water ; scald them very 
carefully in salt and water ; then lay them on a cloth to cool ; 
make a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of 
vinegar and salt, and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two 
nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of whole 
white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them ; cover the 
jar with a thick doth, and let it stand a week ; then boil the 
pickle ; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time ; 
when cold, cover the jar dose. 

BBAKS, FRKKCH, PICXLSD. 

Lay them in salt and water for nine days, then add a little 
vinegar and boil them in the liquor ; when they become green 
drain them, wipe them dry, and put the beans into a jar ; boil 
some vinegar, ginger, mace, pepper, doves, and mustard seed, 
all bruised, and while hot pour it on the beans ; cover them 
dose when cold. 

OABBAOB, BSD, TO PIOKUB. 

Quarter a purple red cabbage; out out the stalk, then slice 
down the cabbage endwise; put them on a drying sieve, 
sprinkle each layer of cabbage with salt, which lay and drain 
two or three days ; then put it mto a jar, boil some vinegar 
with spice tied up in a muslin bsg ; cut a beet root of good 
color into slices ; the branches of cauliflower cut ofl^ after it has 
lain in salt, will look and be of a beautiful red ; put it into a 
stone jar, and pour boiling vinegar over it 

V 



piCKLU. 258 

OABBAOB, WHITB, PIOKLBD. 

Slice your cabbage thin ; then lay it in salt for twenty-four 
hourS) strain it very dry, then put it in a stone jar with allspice, 
mace, and vinegar, and pour it on boiling hot ; tie it very dose, 
Mpeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit Hdt use. 

OXLVRT, TO PIOKLK. 

Separate the atalks from the head ; clean them thoroughly, 
and put them into salt and water strong enough to bear an 
egg ; let them remain in this for a week or ten days, or until 
wanted to pickle ; then take them out, wash them well in clean 
water, drain dry, place in a jar, and pour boiling vinegar over, 
to which any approved spices may have been added. As is 
usual for pickling, keep it well covered with vinegar ; if the 
odery is allowed to remain a long time in salt and water, it 
will be necessary to soak it in dean water for a day or two, 
changing the water occasionally. 

0U0UMBBR8, TOUNG. 

Choose nice young gherkins, lay them upon dishes, sprinkle 
salt over them, let them lie a week, drain them ofl^ and put 
them mto stone jars ; pour boiling vinegar over them, [dace 
them near the fire, cover them wdl with vine leaves, and if not 
a good green, pour off the vinegar and boil it again ; cover them 
with firesh vine leaves and continue doing so until they are a 
good color, as to make a better green you must use a metal 
stewpan, or brass skillets, which are very pernicious and 
poisonous. 

Use wooden spoons with holes to dish all pickles, keeping 
them always well covered and free firom air. Another method 
of pickling cucumbers, which is good, is to put them in salt and 
water, as you pick them, changing the salt and water once 
in three or four days. When you have done collecting youi 
eucumbers for [nckliog, take them out of the salt and water, 



2M nUOTZOAIi OOOEBBT. 

aod torn on scalding hot vmegar, with alum, salt and pepper- 
eoms in it. 

EAST INDIA PICKLI. 

Chop cabbage fine, leaving out the stalks, together with three 
or four onions, a root of horseradish, and a couple of green pep- 
pers to each cabbage. Soak the whole in salt and water three 
or four days. Spice some vinegar very strong with mace, 
doves, allspice and dnnamon. Heat it scalding hot, add alum 
and salt, and turn it on the cabbage, onions and p^)per, which 
should previously have all the brine drained from them. This 
pickle will be fit to eat in the course of three or £>ur weeks* 

GBBXK TOMATO PICKLBS. 

Take any size, but diose ready to ripen are the best, place 
them in a vessel, and throw on a hand fiiU of salt ; cover witii 
boiling water, and let them stand till eold ; thai slice them 
through transversely, once or twice, according to the sLee ; then 
lay them in a crock, with thin-«lioed onions. Prepare the vine- 
gar with doves, dnnamon, and allspice, and pour on hot. Cover 
and set away for a few days. Tliey will be found very deli- 
cious, and will keep all winter. Those who dialtke onions, may 
omit them. 

PIOKLKD LBMONB. 

Take eight lemons, quarter of a pound of fine salt, two quarts 
of vinegar, quarter of an ounce eadi of cloves, nutmeg, mace, 
and cayenne, a little garlic, and two ounces of mustard seed ; 
the whole to be put into a tight covered jar, and set in a 
kettle of boUing water; let it remain until the lemons are 
tender. 

MUSHBOOIIB. 

Use the close button mushrooms, rub them with a bit of 
fiaunel or coarse doth, throw a little salt over them, and put 
them into a stewpan withalitdeleoionor vinegar, and a blade 



S55 

of mace, and ii &w doves^ and whole white pepper, keepii^ 
them well ^aken ; then keeping it on the fire until uH the 
liquor is absorbed into the mushrooms again ; then put as much 
white vinegar in your stewpan, sufficient to cover them, give 
it a warm, then put them into bottles or jera 

MtrBBROOM SXT0H17P. 

Put a quantity of lai^ natural mushrooms into an earthen 
pan, and break them up small, sprinkle salt over them, let 
them lie for several days, mixing them up each day, then let 
them stand about a week and not stir them until a thick scum 
rises on the top ; then strain the liquor from the mushrooms, 
boil the liqiior with some peppercorns, mace, ginger, doves, 
and some mustard seed tied in a muslin bag ; when cold, bot- 
tle it, leave the spice in, and cork it up tight, and in three 
months or so, boil it all up again, and when cold, bottle it It 
will now keep for years. 

ITASTURTIONS, TO PIOXLS. 

Immediately the blossoms are ofl^ and the knobs formed, 
gather them, and lay them in cold salt and water, changing the 
salt and water three days successively ; make a cold pickle of 
vinegar, a little sherry wine, shaiot, pepper, doves, mace, nut- 
megs cut in quarters, and horseradish cut small ; into this pickle 
put the nasturdons. In three months they will be ready for 
eating. 

hxat'b tonoux, pioxlbd. 

Take neat's tongues that look red out of the pickle, cut off 
the roots, and let the tongues boil till the skin comes off easily ; 
season them, salt, pepper, and doves, and nutmeg, rubbing it 
well into them while hot ; then put them into a pan, cover them 
with mdted butter, and bake them ; when thev are done pour off 



256 PRACTICAL COOKKBT. 

the batter, keeping bade the gravy, pat them into a fresh pan, 
and oover with butter an inch thick. 

ONIONS, TO PICKLS. 

Peel the onions till they look white ; boil some strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them ; let them stand in this twenty 
four hours ; keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam ; 
after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are 
cold, pour boiling vinegar, with ginger and white pepper, over 
them ; take care the vinegar always covers the onionsi 

MANOOKS. 

Procure muskmelons as late in the season as possible ; if 
pickled early, they are not apt to keep well. Cut a small 
piece from the under side ; take out the seeds, and if the cit- 
ron or nutmeg melons are used for mangoes, the rough part 
should be scraped ofE The long common muskmelons make 
the best mangoes. Soak the melons in salt and water, three 
or four days ; then take them out of the water ; sprinkle on 
the Inside of the melons, powdered cloves, pepper, nutmeg ; 
fill them with small strips of horseradish, cinnamon, and small 
string beans. Flag root, nasturtions, and radish tops, are also 
nice to fill them with. Fill the crevices with American mus- 
tard seed. Put back the pieces of melon that were out cS, 
bind it up tight with white cotton doth, and sew it on« Lay 
the melons in a stone jar, with the part that the covers are on, 
up. Put into vinegar jfor the mangoes, alum, salt and pepper- 
corns, in the same proportion as for cucumbers ; heat it scalding 
hot, and put it over, then cover with a folded towel ; let them 
stand for one night ; drain off the vinegar, make it hot again, 
and pour it on ; cover as before ; repeat this scalding four or five 
times, if necessary, until the mangoes are a fine green ; three 
tioieab generally enough. 



PIOKLXCU 261 

KAflTURTIONB. 

Take Aem when small and green ; put them in salt and 
water ; change the water once in three days. When you have 
done collecting the nasturtiona, turn off the brine, and pour on 
scalding hot vinegar. 

FBACHVS. 

Take those of full growth, ripe, but not soft; wipe them with 
a flannel cloth, or pare them ; stick three or four cloves into 
each peadi ; lay them in a stone jar. Put half a pound of su- 
gar to a quart of good vinegar, add cinnamon and other spices 
to the taste ; let the vinegar come to a boil, skim, and pour it 
on the peaches. Let them stand two weeks, then pour off the 
vinegar and boil it, and pour it on again, and they are then fit 
for use. 

ANOTHER. 

Take any kind of fine large peaches that are not too ripe, 
wipe off the down with a clean flannel, and lay them whole in 
a stone jar. Dissolve a tablespoon full of salt to each quart of 
vinegar, cold, and cover them. Secure them well from the air. 
Plums, and grapes, and barberries, may be pickled in the same 
manner, except the salt^ with the stems on. Add spices if you 
choose. Barberries are sometimes used to garnish the edg,e 
ofdishea 

PIOKLBD PBPPBRB. 

Take two dozen large size garden peppers, (green ;) slit them 
oarefully on the side ; take out the pulp ; put on a tablespoon 
iuU of salt, and cover them with boiling water every morning 
for nine days; then till them vdth cabbage cut fine, and a little 
salt Sew them up, then lay them in vinegar. 

PLUMS, TO PIOKLB LIES OLIVSB. 

Take the plums before they are quite ripe, and put them in- 
to a saucepan with some vinegar, salt water, fennel seed, and 

17 



258 PSAOnCALOOOKSBT. 

dill, as muGh of each as will impart a flavor to the pickle ; when 
it boils, put ID the plums, let it boil again, then take it off; let it 
stand till cold, then put them into jars, 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Seven pounds of plums, three pounds of sugar, one ounce of 
dnnamon, and one ounce of doves. Place the plums in al- 
ternate layers with the sugar and spice, in a deep dish. Scald 
a quart of vinegar and pour it over them once a day for three 
days. Then put them into a kettle and let them come to a 
slow boiL When cold they will be ready for use. 

QUINCES, TO PICKLE. 

Pare and cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, and put 
them with a gallon of water and two pounds of honey into a 
laige saucepan, mix them together well, and set them on a slow 
fire for half an hour; strain the liquor into a jar; when quite 
cold wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it ; cover 
them very dose. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Take tomatoes when full ripe, and bake them in a jar till ten- 
der ; strain them and rub them through a sieve. To every 
pound of juice, add a pint of vinegar, half an ounce of garlic^ 
sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt^ and a quiirter of an ounce 
of white pepper finely powdered ; boil the whole till every in- 
gredient is soft ; rub it again through the sieve ; to every pound 
add the juice of three lemons ; boil it again to the consistence 
of cream ; when cold, bottle it, put a small quanUty of sweet 
oil on each, tie bladders over and keep in a dry place. 

WALNXTT KETCHUP. 

Boil gently a gallon of the expressed juice of young green 
walnuts, skim it well, then put mto it a pound ot andiovieSi 



piOKLSs. 259 

bones, and liquor, one ounoe of olorea, two or three dozen of 
shalots, one ounoe of maoe, one ounce of pepper, one ounoe of 
garlic ; let it all boil until the shalots sink ; then place the 
liquor into a pan until cold ; then bottle it, dividing the spice 
equally in each bottle ; cork it dose, and bladder over the 
corks. This is not fit for use m less than a twelvemonth. 



CHAPTER XXL 
OAKES, BUNS, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 

RKQUI8ITB INFORMATION FOB XAKINO AND BAKING CAKB8. 

Currants are so frequently used in cakes that you should be 
very particular in having them nicely washed^ dried, and all 
sticks and stones taken from them, and then put before the 
fire to dry, as, if damp, they will make cakes and puddings 
heavy ; therefore, before you use them dust a little flour lightly 
over them. Raisins^ if they are to be used whole, should be 
well scalded ; if to be chopped, throw a few at a time into hot 
water, then cut each one with scissors, and take out the seeds. 

Eggs should be fresh and a long time beaten, the whites and 
yolks separate, taking out the treadle. 

Sugar should be well pounded and sifted, and kept well 
dried. None but good sweet butter should be used for cake 
making. 

In making cakes, if you wish them to be pleasing to the eye, 
as well as the palate, use double refined white sugar, although 
clean brown sugar makes an equally good cake. 

Lemon peel should be either rubbed on sugar or grated fine ; 
if so, sprinkle some tifted sugar amongst it to keep it a good 
color. 

The lightness of cake depends upon its being well beaten and 
thoroughly mixed. 

If you use yeast to your cakes, they will require less butter 
and eggs, and will eat almost equally as light and rich ; but if 
the leaven be only of milk, flour, and water, it becomes more 
tough than if the butter was at first put with the ingredients^ 



CAKXB, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 261 

and the dough set to rise bj the fire. Teast should be used 
sparinglj, to avoid bitterness. 

The heat of your oven is of particular importanoe for baking 
cakes or pastrj — more particularly large cakes ; as at first, if 
not pretty brisk, they will not rise ; then, if likely to brown 
too quick at 1^ top, put a piece of paper upon the top of the 
cake so as not to touch the batter. It should be lighted some 
time before band, so as to have a good solid body of heat, and 
should be of a proper heat at the bottom, in order that the 
cakes may rise. 

For baking plum, or other large cakes, have round tin pans 
with sides nearly perpendicular, line them with white paper 
buttered, and fill them two or three inches deep of the cake 
mixture, but not more. 

Saleratus must be powdered and dissolved in hot water be- 
fore being used. 

When the weather is cold, the materials for cake should be 
moderately warmed, before mixing them together. All kinds 
of cake that are made without yeast are better for being stirred, 
till just before they are baked. The butter and sugar should 
be stirred together till white, then the eggs, flour, and spice, 
added. Saleratus and cream should not be put in till just be- 
fore the cake is baked ; add the fruit last Butter the cake 
pans well. The cake will be less liable to bum if the pans are 
lined with white buttered paper. 

An oven for bread-baking should be as hot as you can bear 
your hand in for twenty seconds, or whilst counting twenty. 

To ascertain whether a cake be done, thrust a knife into the 
center, and should this oome out dean, draw it from the oven 
directly ; but should the paste adhere to it, continue the baking. 
Several sheets of paper are placed usually under large plum- 
cakes. 

To blanch almonds, put them into a saucepan with plenty of 
cold water and heat it slowly ; when it is just aoalding, turn 



262 PRAOnCAL OOOKSBT. 

the almonds into a basin, peel, and throw them into cold water 
as they are done ; dry them well in a soft doth before they 
are used. If the water be too hot, it will turn them yellow. 

Bread and tea<!akes made with milk are best when new, as 
they become stale sooner than othera 

Never keep your bread or cake in wooden boxes or drawers, 
but in tin boxes or earthen pans, with covers. 

When the quantities given will make more cake than is re- 
quired, the half of each ingredient may be used. 

Allow about fifteen minutes for each half inch in thickness of 
the cake in a quick oven. More time will be required in a 
slow oven. 

CRUST, SHORT AND RICH, BUT NOT 8WXXT. 

To eight ounces of fine flour rub in well six ounoes of batter ; 
make it into a stiffish paste with a little water ; beat it well, 
roll it thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST, SHORT. 

Take two ounces of white sugar, pound, sift, and dry it^ mix 
it with a pound of well dried flour, and rub well into it three 
ounces of butter; put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, 
and then mix the whole into a smooth paste; roll it out thin 
and bake it in a moderate oven. 

APPUBCAKS. 

Take one pound and a half of white sugar, two pounds of 
apples, pared and cut thin, and the rind of a large lemon ; put 
a pint of water to the sugar, and boil it to a syrup ; put the 
apples to it, and boil it quite thick. Put it into a mould to 
cool, and send it cold to table, with a custard, or cream poured 
round it 

ALMOND DROPS. 

Take half a pound of flour on your board, to which put four 
or five ounoes of sweet almonds, and half that quantity of btU 



0AXX8, BISCUITS, BREAD, XTO. 2G3 

ter almonds, blanched and pounded with a little white of egg, 
half a pound of sugar, four yolks of eggs and a little salt; work 
into paste ; make it in small rolls, then cut it in bits the size 
of a small nutmeg ; make them in round balls ; lay them the 
distance of half an inch apart on sheets of paper, on baking tins, 
and put them in a moderate oven for 6fbeen or twenty miautes. 

AUIOMD, SMALL, 0AKS8. 

Take half a pound of blanched almonds, beat them to a paste 
with white of eggs ; add three quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar, and two ounces of cream ; take some very thin puff 
paste, cut into small squares, and put a portion of the above 
mixture on each; moisten the edges, cover them with puff 
paste, prick and bake them in a hot oven ; when done, ice them 
with sugar. 

ALMOND ICING, VOR CAXB8. 

Take equal parts of blanched sweet almonds and loaf sugar, 
pound them fine in a mortar, pass the whole through a mod- 
erately coarse wire sieve ; then mix the whole into a paste of 
moderate consistence with the yolks of eggs, and spread over 
the top of the cake after it is baked ; dry the almond idug be- 
fore the fire or in a very cool oven, and when it is cold, ice the 
cake with the sugar icing. 

BANBURT CAXXB. 

Press in a little dough (with a pound of flour) two table- 
spoons full of thick yeast, and a gill of warm milk ; let it work 
a little, then add half a pound of currants, washed and picked, 
half a pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut small, and 
a quarter of an ounce each of nutmeg, ginger, and allspice ; mix 
the whole together with half a pound of honey, and put into 
puff paste cut in an oval shape ; cover and sift sugar over. Bake 
them fiftean mmutea in a moderate oven. 



264 PRACTICAL COOKE-IT. 

BABA. 

Take three pounds of flour, one quarter of which set apart 
and mix into dough, with a gill of good yeast and a litde 
warm water ; cover it close in a pan and set it by the fire to 
rise ; when you see the dough rise and nearly ready, form the 
other parts of the flour in a circle on the table, in which put 
half an ounce of salt, once ounce of sugar, a half pound of but- 
ter and twelve eggs, and a tablespoon full of safl^on ; mix the 
butter and eggs well together before you put it to the flour ; 
when it is all mixed, spread it out and put the dough to it, and 
knead it well. When the yeast is nearly mixed in, add two 
pounds of raisins, stoned, a few at a time, have ready two cop- 
per moulds buttered, and put three parts full of dough and set 
in a warm place to rise very gently ; when raised to the top of 
the mould bake in a hot oven ; a brick oven is best. 

BRIDE CAKS. 

To four pounds of the best wheat flour add four pounds of 
iresh butter, two pounds of the best white sugar, pounded and 
sjfled line, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same quan- 
tity of nutmegs ; to every pound of flour put eight eggs ; wash 
and thoroughly pick four pounds of currants, dry them well, 
blanch a pound of sweet almonds and cut them length wise^ 
very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, the 
same quantity of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy. 
Having thus prepared your ingredients, work the butter to a 
cream with your hands, beat in the sugar for ten minutes, then 
beat your whites of eggs to a very strong fix>th ; mix them 
with your sugar and butter, beat the yolks well for about 
twenty minutes, and mix them with your cake. Now put in 
your flour, mace, and nutmeg, keep beating it until your oven 
is quite ready to receive it, pour in your brandy, whip the cur- 
rants and almonds lightly in, tie around the bottom of your 
hoop three sheets of paper, to keep It from running out, rub 



0AKB8, BISCUIT, BRKAD, XTO. 265 

it well with butter, and put in your cake and the sweetmeats in 
three layers^ with cake between every layer ; alter it is risen 
and colored, cover it with paper, before your oven is closed ; it 
will take three hours' baking. 

BBIDB CAJEB — ^ANOTHER. 

One pound and a half of (me sugar, three pounds and a half 
of currants, one pound of butter, two pounds of flour, half a 
pound of peels, half a pound of cut almonds, three ounces of 
spices, the grating of three lemons, eighteen eggs, two gills of 
brandy ; paper your hoop, which for this mixture you will re- 
quire to be large ; bake in a moderate oven — it will take some 
hours ; when cold, ice it See '^ Icing for Cakes." 

BREAKFAST OR TEA CAKES HOT. 

Put about six hands full of flour in a basin, about half a 
pint of new milk, a small piece of butter; warm the milk, and 
mind, hotter in winter than in summer ; mix in a cup two 
ounces of German yeast with a little cold water, mix the yeast 
with tlie milk and butter, make a hole in the flour, pour the 
mixed milk and yeast into it, stirring it round until it is a thick 
batter ; beat up one egg and mix into it ; cover it over and keep 
it warm in your screen ; when it has risen a little mix it into a 
dough, knead it well, put it again in the screen, and when it 
has risen a good deal, take and form your rolls. They will 
take nearly half an hour, or according to the size you make the 
cakes ; rub them over while hot with your paste brush, dipped 
in milk. 

WHiaS FOR TEA, OR BREAKFAST. 

Warm a pint and a half of milk, one ounce of butter, three 
eggs, three tablespoons full of yeast, flour to make a batter, and 
let it rise two or three hours. Bake in rings fifteen minutes. 



266 P&ACnOAL COOKXRT. 

DIET BREAD CAKX. 

Three quarters of a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound 
of flour, and eight eggs ; put your sugar and ^gs together in- 
to a basin or pan, with half a pint of lukewarm water ; beat 
them all well up with a whisk, the same as for sponge cakes, 
over a slow fire until quite warm, take them from the fire and 
whip them until cold ; add the grating of one lemon, then mix 
in the flour lightly, adding some caraway seeds, if they are 
liked ; do not fill your mould ; they should be square paper co- 
seS) buttered. 

BUTTER CAKES. 

Beat with your hands a dish of butter into a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried flour, and two do- 
zen eggs, leaving out half the whites ; then beat altogether for 
an hour. Previous to baking it, you may add some seeds and 
currants, an ounce of mace, a nutmeg, and a little brandy. 

DIBCUITS OP ANT KIND OF FRUIT. 

To the pulp of any scalded fruit put the same weight of su- 
gar, beat them both well together for two hours, then make 
them into forms, or put them in paper cases, and dry them in 
a cool oven ; turn them the next day, and let them remain until 
quite dry, then put them in boxes. 

CHERSRGAXES. 

Cut your paste and All the pans ; have ready prepared this 
mixture: break three yolks of e^gs and one white into a basin, 
a little powdered sugar, a grating of lemon, the juice of a lem- 
on, a few bread crumbs or crumbed stale poundcake, an ounce 
of clarified butter, and mix all well together ; add half a gill of 
cream ; put a spoon full in each tartlet pan ; you must press 
the piste the fbna of the pao. 



OAKXS, BI8G0IT8, BRBAD, BTO. 267 

AKOTHBR. 

Take one pint of new milk, let it boil, beat the yolks of six 
eggs, and the whites of two, and stir into the milk ; let it boil 
till it oomes to a curd ; drain the curd till quite dry ; beat a 
half pound of blanched almonds in a mortar, with the curd ; 
beat the yolks of six eggs and stir in with half a pound of 
powdered white sugar, and quarter of a pound of melted butter. 
Season with rosewater, and bake in patty pans lined with paste. 

CHBB8BCAKB8 COMMON. 

Put a quart of milk on the fire ; when it boils add eight eggs 
weU beaten ; stir them till they become a curd, then pour it 
out, and when it is cold put in three-quarters of a pound 
of currants well washed, two spoons full of rose water, and 
a little salt ; make a puff paste and put in the mixture. If 
you bake them in the patties, it will be necessary to but- 
ter the patties to enable you to turn them out ; but if you 
bake in glass or china, only an upper crust will be neces- 
sary, as you can send them to table without taking them out. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 

Biscuit, One pint of water, a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, three-quarters of a pound of flour. Have a clean kettle, 
and coal fire, without smoke. Put the water on to boil ; while 
boiling, put in the butter, and stu- in the flour dry ; stir till 
free from lumps; pour out to cool; when thoroughly cool, 
break in, one at a time, ten eggs ; beat it hard. Butter some 
sheets, and drop the above mixture in small rounds ; bake in 
a hot oven, from fifieen to twenty minutes. 

Custard. One quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of flour ; 
mix the flour with a little of the milk ; when the milk is boil- 
ing, stir in the flour ; let it boil hard about one minute. Beat 
four eggs well, and stir in while hot ; add a fliU half pound of 



268 PRACTICAL COOKSST. 

sugar, some salt, and essence of lemon, or the oil of a fresh 
lemon, rubbed on sugar. 

When the biscuits are cold, make an incision in one side, 
and put the custard in with a spoon. They are best fresh, 
but not warm. 

OOUKTRT CRSAM CAKE8. 

To a quart of flour add a teaspoon of fine salt, and a piece 
of butter of the size of an egg; then take half a pint of thick 
cream, the better if a little sour, half a teaspoon full of pearl- 
ash, dissolved in water, and poured into the cream, and milk 
sufficient to wet the flour. If cream is abundant, it may be 
used without milk or pearlash. In this case, the cream may 
be sweet When well kneaded, it is fit for baking. 

RICH CREAM CAKB. 

Three-fourths of a pound of white sugar, and half a pound 
of butter, stirred together till very white. Beat separately to 
a froth the whites and yolks of seven eggs, and add, also, a 
wine-glass of brandy, a grated nutmeg, and a pound and a half 
of sifted fiour. Just before it is baked, add half a pint of rich 
cream, and a pound of seeded raisins. 

ORXAM CAKS. 

Four cups of flour, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of cream, five eggs, and one teaspoon fiill of saleratua* 
Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the rest. 

CRUMPBT8. 

Take three teacups of raised dough, and work into it, with 
the hand, half a teacup of melted butter, three eggs, and milk 
to render it a thick batter. Turn it into a buttered bake pan, 
and let it remain fifteen minutes ; then put it on a bake pan, 
heated so as to scorch flour. It will bake in half an hour. 



BI80UITB, BREAD, 8TC. 269 

CUP OAKB« 

Mix three teacups of sugar with one and a half of butter ; 
when white, beat three eggs, and stir them into the butter and 
sugar, together with three teacups of sifled flour, and rosewater 
or essence of lemon, to the taste. Dissolve a teaspoon full of 
saleratus in a teacup of milk ; strain it into the cake ; then 
add three more teacups of sifled flour. Bake the cake imme- 
diately, either in cups or pans. 

ORBAM CUP OAKS. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of butter, half a cup of sour 
cream, three well beaten eggs, and a little saleratus, dissolved 
in hot water ; beat these together for a long time ; add nut- 
meg, grated, and half a teaspoon full of lemon extract or or- 
ange flower water; bake in a quick oven, in buttered tins, 
lined with paper. 

CORN CAKS. 

Take the whites of eight ^gs, one-fourth of a pound each 
of com starch, flour, and butter, half a pound of sugar, one 
teaspoon full of cream of tartar, half a teaspoon full of soda. 
Flavor with almond, or to suit the taste. 

CHEX6XCAKSS, APPLB. 

Take twelve apples ; pare, core, and boil in sufficient watex 
to mash them ; beat them very smooth ; add six yolks of eggs, 
the juice of two lemons, some grated lemon peel, half a pound 
of fresh butter, beaten to a cream, and sweetened with pow- 
dered sugar ; beat in with the apples ; bake in a puff crust, 
and serve openl 

CHEESECAKES, ALMOIH). 

Take four ounces of blanched almonds, mixed with a few 
bitter ; beat them with a spoon full of water ; add four ounces 



270 PRAOnCAL OOOKKRT. 

of powdered sugar, a spoon full of cream, and the whites of 
two eggs, well beaten; mix them quickly; put into small 
patty pans, and bake for twenty minutes, in a moderately 
warm oven. 

OHKBSECAEBS, CITRON. 

Take a pint of cream ; boil it, and when cold, mix it with 
two eggs, well beaten ; then boil them together, until they be- 
come a curd. Put in a few blanched almonds, beaten in a 
mortar, with a little orange flower water ; add some Naples 
biscuit and green citron, chopped very smalL Sweeten, and 
bake in tins. 

CHEKSSCAKBS, LEMOIT. 

Take four ounces of sifted lump sugar, and the same quan- 
tity of butter ; melt them slowly ; add the yolks of two and 
the white of one egg, a Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds, 
the rind of three lemons, shred fine, and the juice of one lemon 
and a hal^ and three spoons full of brandy ; mix all well to- 
gether ; then make a paste with eight ounces of flour, and six 
ounces of butter, mixing four ounces of it with the flour first| 
then wet it with six spoons full of water, and roll in the re- 
mainder of the butter ; put the ingredients to this paste, and 
bake it. 

0HKX8B0AXB8, ORAKQB. 

Take eight ounces of blanched almonds ; beat them very 
fine, with orange flower water ; melt a pound of butter care- 
fully, without oiling (let it be nearly cold before using it for 
the cheesecakes;) beat, and sifl; half a pound of sugar; beat 
the yolks of ten and the whites of four e^s ; pound one fresh 
and two candied oranges (previously boiled to draw out the 
bitterness) in a mortar till as soft as marmalade, without any 
lumps ; these mix all together, and put into patty pans. 



OAXXS, BISCUITS, BEXJlD, xto. 5271 

CHERRT CAKES. 

Take a pound of tart paste, cut it in hal^ roll it out thin ; 
Jrop on the paste preserved cherries, cut into small pieces ; 
egg them round carefully ; turn the paste over them, and press 
them together gently ; then cut it into half circles with a gig- 
ging iron ; prick, and wash them over with egg ; place them 
on a well buttered tin, and bake them in a quick oven. 

CINKAMOX CAKS8. 

Beat up six eggs, with three tablespoons full of rosewater ; 
put to it a pound of sifted sugar, a dessertspoon full of pow- 
dered cinnamon, and enough flour to form it into a paste ; roll 
it out thin, and cut it into any shape you please ; place them 
on paper, and bake them. Remove them from the paper 
when done. Keep them dry. 

CURRANT CAKS8. 

Take two quarts of currants, red or white ; pick and wash 
them ; boil them in a pint of water ; then run the juice through 
a jelly bag, taking care not to press the bag ; boil up the j'lice, 
strewing in three pounds of sugar to a quart of juice ; pour it 
into glasses ; dry it in a stone till it will turn out ; then dry 
the cakes on plates. 

CARAWAY CAKXS. 

Mix a pound of flour with a pound of fresh butter ; add a 
spoon full of yeast, four spoons full of rosewater, the yolks of 
three eggs, four ounces of sugar, some caraways ; make it all 
into a paste ; bake it^ and when done, sprinkle it with pow- 
dered sugar. 

CURD CAKSS. 

Mix eight eggs (leaving out four whites) with a quart of 
cards ; add sugar, suflicient to sweeten, grated nutmeg, and a 



272 PRAOnOAL OOOXERT. 

tablespoon full of flour; mix well Ix^ether ; heat in a frying 
pan some butter, and drop in the curd, frying like fritters. 

COOKIXS. 

Takebalf a pound of sugar, one-fourth of a pound of butter; 
stir them well together ; . dissolve a teaspoon full of saleratus 
in three-fourths of a teacup of sweet milk ; add half a nutmeg, 
grated, and flour sufficient to roll them out easily. Bake in a 
moderately heated oven. 

CBACKBR8. 

Hub six ounces of butter with two pounds of flour ; dissolve 
a couple of teaspoons full of saleratus in a wine glass of milk, 
and strain it on the flour; add a teacup full of salt, and milk 
enough to enable you to roll it out Beat it with a rolling-pin 
for half an hour, pounding it out thin ; cut it into cakes with a 
tumbler ; bake them about fifleen minutes, and then take them 
from the oven. When the rest of your things are baked suf^ 
ficiently, take them out ; set in the crackers, and let them re> 
main till baked hard and crisp. 

BUTTSR CRACKSRS. 

Rub four ounces of butter into a pound of fk>ur ; when well 
mixed, put to it enough cold water to damp it and keep it to>- 
gether, and add a teaspoon of salt ; beat it with a rolling-pin 
until smooth ; Uien roll it thin ; cut it in small cakes, or make 
it in small crackers between your bands ; bake on tins, in a 
quick oven, for fifteen minutes, or set them in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes ; let each cracker be about the size 
of a dollar piece, and nearly half an inch thick. 

DROP CAKES. 

Let a lai^ teaspoon of saleratus be dissolved in a cup of 
cream, and this mixed with a quart of milk. Into this stir 



OAEX0, BISODITS, BREAD, STO. 278 

flour gently, till of the oonsistenoe of batter. Then dip jour 
spoon in milk, and with it place jour batter at short distances, 
in a buttered pan. Very delicate, made entirely of cream, 
either with or without eggs. 

ANOTHBR. 

One pint of milk, one teaspoon full of saleratus, four eggs, 
a little salt, flour to make it a batter. Bake in a quick oyen, 
and serve hot 

RTB DROP OAKBS. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, eight tablespoons full of flour, 
eight tablespoons full of rye flour. Bake in a quick oven, and 
serve hot. ' 

SODA DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart of flour, one and a half cups of milk, one teaspoon 
full of soda, two of cream of tartar — soda dissolved in the milk, 
cream of tartar rubbed dry into the flour — two eggs, sugar and 
cinnamon to your taste. Boil in hot &t. They are nice when 
jGresh, but will not keep long. 

DOUOHNUTB. 

Cut up a pound of butter in three pounds of sifl;ed flour. 
Add a pound of powdered sugar, a grated nutmeg, a teaspoon 
full of powdered cinnamon, and a tablespoon full of rosewater. 
Beat four eggs very light, and pour them into the mixture. 
Add half a teacup full of yeast, and stir in a pint and a half 
of milk by degrees, so as to make it a soft dough. Cover it, 
and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds with a ja^ng iron or 
sharp knife, and fry in lard. 

DOUGHNUTS, OR NX7T-OAB3CB. 

Mix two cups of buttermilk and two of cream, with two or 
three eggs, one teaspoon full of saleratua, and plenty of fine 

L* 18 



274 FBACnOAL COOKBRT. 

cinnamon, and floor enough to roll ; cut into strips, and twist 
into cakes ; made in this way, they are more tender, and less 
liable to harden than when raised with yeast. Have your lard 
boiling hot, in an iron pot Try it; if the &t is not hot enough, 
the cakes will absorb it — ]f too hot, it will make them a dark 
brown outside, before the inside is done. If over an open fire, 
keep the kettle in motion. 

DOUGHNUTS WITH SUGAR. 

Make a dough of one pound of flour, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, three-quarters of a pound of brown sugar, rolled fine, 
one nutmeg, grated, one teaspoon full of ground cinnamon, 
one tablespoon full of brewer's yeast, and warm milk enough 
to mix. Set it in a warm place to rise, for one hour, or till 
light ; then form in twists or squares, fry as before, and drain 
on a sieve. 

0RULLKR8* 

Cut up half a pound of butter into two pounds of sifted flour. 
Add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, a grated 
nutmeg, and a teaspoon fiill of powdered cinnamon, and mix 
them well together. Beat six eggs, and pour them into the 
mixture. Add a tablespoon full of roswater, and mix the 
whole into a dough. If the eggs and rosewater are not found 
sufficient to wet it, add a very little cold water. Mix the 
dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste board ; take the doug^ out 
of the pan and knead it very well. Cut it into small pieces, 
and knead each separately. Put all the pieces together, and 
knead the whole in one lump. Boll it out into a large square 
sheet, about half an indi thick. Take a jagging iron, or a sharp 
knife, run it along Uie sheet, and cut the dough into long, nar- 
row slips. Twist them up in various forms. Ebve ready an 
iron pan, widi melted laitL Lay the orullera lightly in it^ and 



0AXK8, BlSOnm, BBXAD, ITO. Vt6 

try them to a light brown, turning them with a knife and fork, 
80 as not to break them, and taking care that both sides are 
equally done. 

Crullers may be made in a plainer way, with the best brown 
sugar, (rolled very fine,) and without spioe or rosewater. 

They can be fried, or rather boiled, in a deep irqn pot 
They should be done in a large quantity of lard, and taken 
out with a skimmer that has holes in it, and held on the skim* 
mer till the lard drains from them. 

TROSTINO FOR OAKS. 

Powder very finely and sift half a teacup full of double re- 
fined sugar, and two teaspoons full of Poland starch. Beat the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, so that you can turn the 
plate upside down, without the eggs falling from it ; then stir 
in the sugar gradually ; stir it ten or fifteen minutes without 
any cessation ; then add a teaspoon full of lemon juice ; put in 
sufficient rosewater to flavor it. If you wish to color it pink, 
stir in a few grains of cochineal powder, or rose pink ; if to 
have it of a blue tinge, add a little of what is called the pow 
der blue. Lay the frosting on the cake with a knife, soon af- 
ter it is taken from the oven ; smooth it over, and let it re- 
main in a cooLplaoe till hard. This will be sufficient to frost 
one laige cake. 

FRinT CAKB — ^RIOH. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, and ten eggs. First beat the yolks and sugar 
together, then add the flour and butter, beaten to a cream ; 
and lastly, mix in lightly the whites of the e^^s, beaten to a 
high froth. Stone and chop one or two pounds of raisins, (as 
you may choose,) two pounds of currants, well cleaned and 
dried, one of citron, a quarter of a pound of almonds, half an 
•unoe of maoe, a teaspoon full of roaewater, a winegUuM of 



276 PRACnOAL COOKKRT, 

brandj, and one of wine ; stir in the flour gradually, then the 
wine, brandy, and spioe. Add the fruit just before it is put 
into the pans. It takes over two hours to bake it if the loaves 
are thick ; if the loaves are thin, it will bake in less time. 
Tbis kind oi oake is the best after it has been made three or 
four weeks, and it will keep good five or six montha 



FBIED OAKEB. 

One cap of si^^r, one of cream, three egga, cinnamon or 
nutmeg, a teaspoon fiill of saleratus. Cut as jumbles, or in 
strips; twist, and fry in lard. 

FAMILY OAKS. 

To six ounces each of rice and wheat flour add half a pound 
of powdered sugar, nine eggs, and half an ounce of caraway 
seed ', beat lor an hour; and bake the same time in a quick 
oven. 

OINGEB SNAPS. 

Half a pint of molasses, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, 
caraway seeds, and ground ginger, each a tablespoon full, and 
a quarter of a pound butter ; work the butter into a pound of 
flour, then altogether, and form it in cakes not larger than a 
dollar piece, on baking tins ; bake in a moderate oven twenty 
minutes, when they will be dry and crisp. 

GIZrOSB-NUTB. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of sugar, a tablespoon full 
of ginger, one cup of butter, half a cup of sour milk, two tea- 
spoons full of saleratus, dissolved in boiling water, and stirred 
in afler the flour. Make it just stiff enough to roll very thin ; 
cut in small cakes^ and bake in a slow oven. 



0AKX8, BIBCUITB, BRXAD, XTO. 277 

GTNGEBBREAD. 

Mix together three and a ha]f pounds of flour ; three quar* 
ters of a pound of sugar, one pint of molasses, a quarter of a 
pound of ginger, and some ground orange peel. 

ANOTHEB. 

Two pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, one pint of milk, 
one pint of molasses^ one tablespoon full of saleratus, and gin- 
ger as you please* < 

HASD GINGEBBREAD. 

■ 

Three pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, twelve eggs, 
two teacups full of milk, two te&spoons full of saleratus, eight 
tablespoons fuU of ginger, and flour sufficient to roll. 

SOFT GINGERBBBAD. 

Three eggs, three cups full of molasses, one cup full of but- 
ter, two teaspoons full of saleratus, dissolved in a cup full of 
warm water, one tablespoon full of ginger, and six cup full 
of flour. 

NIOB GINGEBBREAD. 

Two pounds of flour, one and a quarter pounds of sugar, 
two tablespoons full of ginger, eight egg;^ and one pound of 
butter. Rub the butter and sugar together till they are white ; 
then break the eggs, and strain them in ; mix it well ; put in 
the ginger, and sifb in the flour ; spread the cake thinly over 
tm pans or sheets. It will require a moderate heat ; bake it 
twenty minutes. 

SOFT GINGEBBBEAP. 

Take six teacups full of flour, one cup of butter, or lard ; 
work well together ; add three cups of niolasses, one cup of 
sour milk, one tablespoon full of saleratus, and two tablespoons 
full of ginger. 



278 PRACnOAL COOKXRT. 

QINOEBBBBAD WITH FBUTT. 

Four cups of flour, one of butter, one of sugar, one of molas> 
ses, one of milk, four eggs, three teaspoons full of ginger, a tea- 
spoon full of doves and nutmegs, half a pound of currants and 
raisins ; add the fruit last^ and bake in pans^ in an oven, not 
very quick. 

BUOAB GmaEBBRBAB. 

Take two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, Ave eggs^ well beaten, two ounoes of powdered gin- 
ger, and a teaspoon fiill of pearlash. Then mix, and bake. 

Q006EBEBBT CAKE. 

Press the juice out of some gooseberries, and strain ft 
through some muslin ; boil it up ; strew in a pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice ; stir well, and simmer till the sugar is 
melted ; pour it into glasses ; drj it in a stove till it will turn 
out, and then dry the cakes on plates. 

HONET GAKB. 

Three-quarters of a pound of honey, half a pound of fine loaf 
sugar, a quarter of dtron, a half ounce of orange peel, cut small ; 
of cinnamon and ginger, each half an ounce, four well beaten 
eggs, and a pound of siflied flour. Melt the sugar with the 
honey, and mix. Roll out the cakes, and cut in any form. 

Dn)IAN BBBAKFABT CAKES. 

Take one quart of buttermilk, or sour milk, three eggs, but- 
ter in size equal to half a hen's egg ; a little salt^ one teaspoon 
full of saleratus, stirring in fine Indian flour till of a proper coo- 
nstence; and then putting it into pans of an inch in depth, for 
A quick baEsb 



CAKE8, BI8CniT8, BREAD, £T0. 270 

INDIAN LIGHT BISCniT. 

A quart of Indian meal, a pint of sifted wheat flour, a very 
small teaspoon full of salt, three pints of milk, and four eggs. 
Sift the Indian and wheat meal into a pan, and add the salt 
Mix them welL Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs sepa- 
rately. The yolks must be beaten until very thick and smooth ; 
the whites to a thick froth that will stand alone of itself. Then 
stir the yolks gradually (a little at a time) into the milk. Add, 
by degrees, the meal. Lastly, stir in the beaten white of egg^ 
and give the whole a long and hard stirring. Butter a suffi- 
cient number of cups, or small, deep tins ; nearly fill them 
with the batter. Set them immediately into a hot oven, and 
bake them fiist Turn them out of the cups. Send them 
warm to table ; pull them open, and eat them with butter. 

They will puff up finely, if at the last you stir in a level tea 
spoon full of soda, melted in a little warm water. 

JUMBLES. 

Work togetiier till of a light color a pound of sugar, and 
half a pound of butter ; then add eight eggs, beaten to a froth, 
essence of lemon, or rosewater, to the taste, and flour to make 
them sufikiently stiff to roll out. Roll them out in powdered 
sugar, half an inch thick ; cut it into strips half an inch wide 
and four inches long ; join the ends together, so as to form 
rings ; lay them on flat tins that have been buttered ; bake 
them in a quick oven. 

JOHNNY 0AE3BB. 

Take a quart of sour milk, thick or otherwise, a teaspoon 
full of salt, sifled meal to make a stiff batter, a teaspoon heap- 
ing full of dissolved saleratua, with or without a spoon full of 
flour. Butter a pan, and balce nearly an hour. For tea, it is 
improved by adding half a teacup of molasses, a little allspioe, 
and a spoon full <^ cream, or shortening. 



S80 PRAOTIGAL OOOKKRT. 



Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; add the juice 
of a lemon, or a little rosewater. KoU and sifl half a pound 
of the whitest loaf sugar, and beat it with the e^. Spread 
out white paper on buttered tins, and drop a tablespoon full 
of this mixture on the paper. The oven should be moderately 
hot, and when the tops have become hard, remove them. 
Have a solution of gum Arabic, and dip the lower side of the 
cake, and join it to another. 

LOAF CAKS. 

Stir into two quarts of flour a pint of milk, slightly warmed, 
and a small teacup of yeast Place it near the fire, where it 
will rise quickly. When perfectly light, work in with the 
hand four beaten eggs, a teaspoon full of salt, two of cinnamon, 
a wine-glass of brandy or wine. Stir a pound of sugar with 
three^uarters of a pound of butter ; when white, work it into 
the cake ; add another quart of sifted flour, and beat the whole 
well with the hand ten or fifteen minutes ; then set it where 
it will rise again. When of a spongy lightness, put it into 
buttered cake pans, and let them stand fifteen or twenty min 
utes before baking. Add, if you like, a pound and a half of 
raisins, just before putting the cake into the pans. 

A LIGHT OAKE TO BAKU IN CUPS. 

Haifa pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, rubbed into 
two pounds of flour, one glass of wine, or rosewater, two of 
yeast, one of nutmeg, and fruit, if you please. 

ONE, TVrO, THBEB, FOUB CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four egga^ 
well beaten ; nutmeg, or essence of lemon, to season it 



CAKES, BISCUITS, BREAD, ETC. 281 

THIN POUND CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, four eggs, one cup of butter, and flour 
enough to roll thin. Bake on tin sheets. 

BABNABD CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, four cups 
of flour, one of milk, four eggs, and a little soda. Flavor with 
fresh lemon, or extract of lemon. 

LEMON CAKE. 

To the whites of ten eggs add three spoons full of rose or 
orange flower water ; whisk them for an hour ; then put in a 
pound of sided sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon ; mix 
them well, and add the yolks of ten ^gs, beaten smooth, and 
the juice of half a lemon ; stir «n three^uarters of a pound of 
flour ; put the mixture in a buttered pan, and bake it in a mod- 
erate oven for an hour. 

MAOABOONS. 

Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and dry them well ; then 
pound them flne in a mortar ; add the whites of three eggs ; 
then one pound of sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix it 
well together for ten minutes ; take it all out of the mortar ; 
have ready your baking boards or sheets, covered with wafer 
paper. For Italian macaroons, you will form them round, 
with the slices of almonds upon the top of each ; if for En- 
glish, oval, and sifb sugar upon the top of them ; bake them 
in a moderate oven. 

* MAOABOONS, SPICED. 

Take a pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of sifl;ed 
sugar ; prepare the paste in the usual way ; add a spoon full 
of powdered cinnamon, six pounded cloves, a spoon full of 
preserved lemon, the same of orange peel, chopped small, 



283 PBACnCAL OOOKBBT. . 

and the rind of two lemons, grated ; mix all together in a 
mortar ; laj out the macaroons as before directed, and bake 
them carefully. 



NEW YEAs's OOOKIBB. 



Take one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter ; stir them to a cream ; then add three beaten eggs, a gra- 
ted nutmeg, two tablespoons full of caraway seed, and a pint 
of flour. Dissolve a teaspoon full of saleratus in a teacup of 
milk ; strain, and mix it with half a teacup of cider, and stir it 
into the cookies; then add flour to make them sufficiently 
stiff to roll out Bake them as soon as cut into cakes, in a 
quick oven, to a light brown. 

POUND OAEE. 

Take a pound of^ sifted sugar, and a pound of fresh butter ; 
mix them with the hand ten minutes, and put to them nine 
yolks and five whites of eggs, well beaten ; work all together, 
and add a pound of sifl^d flour, some caraway seeds, four 
ounces of candied orange peel, cut into slices, a few currantSi 
well cleaned ; mix all together very lightly. 

POUND OAJBJSBy PLUM OB PLAIN. 

Equal quantities of sugar, butter, flour, and eggs, allowing 
to all cakes eight to a pound, a grating of lemon, and a few 
grains of grated nutmeg ; have a basin made pretty warm ; 
put in your butter, and with your hand whip it up until it 
oomes to the thickness of cream ; then put in your sugar, lem- 
on, and nutmeg ; keep whipping it ; have your e^s beat up ; 
then add them by degrees to your sugar and butter ; take care 
that it does not curdle ; whip in your flour ; from this mix- 
ture you can make several sorts of small cakes, with a little 
variation in each mixture. For queen cakes, some currants, 
and a spoon full more fbur ; for champaignes, a few caraway 



CAXB8, BI80UIT8, BBSAD, BTO. 283 

seeda, and two spoons full of flour ; fi>r queen's drops, the 
same, but add currants ; have difierent basins for each mix- 
ture; in the same way you may add whatever flavor you 
like, and make them what shape you like ; champaignes are 
like a quarter of an orange, made in a long frame ; queen 
cakes, in moulds, buttered ; drops, on buttered paper ; pound 
cakes, in hoops, prepared ; a moderate oven wiU bake them. 

A GOOD PLUM OAXE. 

An equal weight of butter and flour, a quarter of a pound 
of cut peels and citron, double the weight of butter in currants, 
the grating of three lemons, and half a nutmeg, half an ounce 
of pudding spice, one glass of brandy, and the same quantity 
o^^^s ^ ^^^ weight in butter; beat your butter as for pound 
cake ; put in a few chopped sweet almonds. Paper and but- 
ter a hoop, bottom and sides ; then put in your mixture ; bake 
in a slow oven for some time ; try it, if done, as you did the 
Savoy cake ; take ofi* the hoop when done, but not the paper. 

OlDEK OAKS. 

One cup full of sugar, one cup full of butter ; mix them to- 
gether, and break in two or three eggs ; then add one cup lull 
of flour, one nutmeg, and one teaspoon full of saleratus ; put 
into it one cup foil of cider, or pour the cider, foaming, over 
it ; then add two cups full of flour ; mix the whole well to- 
gether, and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 

BIGH PLUM OAKS. 

Mix two quarts of flour with a pound of sifted loaf sugar, 
three pounds of currants, half a pound of raisins, stoned and 
chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves ; a grated 
nutmeg, the peel of a lemon, cut fine ; melt two pounds of 
butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, the whites 
and yolks of twelve eggs, beaten apart, and half a pint of good 



284 PRAOnOAL OOOEEBT. 

yeast Beat them together a full hour. Put in plenty of dt- 
ron and lemon. Then butter your hoop, or pans, and bake. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, three of rai- 
sins, three of currants, half a pound of citron, one ounce of nut- 
meg, one ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, ten eggs, one 
wine-glass of wine, one of brandy, a teacup of molasses. Bake 
in two loaves, from two to three hours. 

queen's oakb. 

To one pound of powdered white sugar, ten eggs, well 
beaten, and a pound and a quarter of flour, add one pound of 
butter, beaten to a cream. Flavor with a little rosewater, or 
to suit the taste ; beat all together, and add half a pound of 
shelled almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste ; butter round 
tin basins, line them with white paper, put in the mixture an 
inch and a half deep, and bake one hour in a quick oven. 

BAILBOAD CAKE. 

Take one cup of flour, one cup of sugar, and mix ; add three 
eggs, one teaspoon full of cream tartar, and half a teaspoon of 
soda ; bake quick, but don't bum. 

KIOB PUFFS. 

To a pint of rice flour put boiling water or milk suflicient 
to make a thick batter. Beat four eggs, (when it is cool,) and 
put in, together with a teaspoon full of salt Drop this mix- 
ture by the large spoon full into hot fiit 

KASFBEBBY 0AKE3. 

Take some raspberries not quite ripe ; pick, and place them 
in a stove to dry; then beat them in a mortar. Take a pound 



0AXB8, BISCUITS, BREAD, ITO. 285 

and a quarter of fine sugar ; clarify, and boil it to a syrup ; 
put half a pound of the dried raspberries into the syrup, with 
half a spoon full of the white of egg, beaten in cream ; stir it 
carefully ; just boil it, and pour it into moulds, or paper cases. 

B0I7T OAKES. 

Take the same quantity of ground almonds as fine, sifted 
lugar, a few grains of nutmeg, a little grated lemon peel ; dry 
it well up into a stiffish paste ; work it well ; if too stifTit will 
crack ; then add a trifle more yolk of eg^, and form into cakes 
to suit the fancy ; no cutters are used ; they must be made a 
day or two ; after they are formed, let them stand on sugared 
paper, upon your baking sheet ; bake them in a quick oven ; 
a few minutes will do. 

BICE OAKE. 

Mix six ounces of ground rice, the same quantity of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar, sifled, nine eggs, (the 
yolks and whites beaten separately,) grate in the rind of a 
lemon, and beat it well half an hour ; then bake. 

BIOB FOUND OAEE. 

Four ounces of flour, eight ounces of butter, six eggs, twelve 
ounces of sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, the peel of a lem 
on, if you like, which improves it; or thirty drops of essence 
of lemon. Bake as for other pound cakes, till done. 

SAYOT OAJSJL 

Keep your cake moulds for the use of cakes only ; clarify 
some butter, and when nearly cold, with a stiff brush grease 
your mould very smooth the same way ; be sure you do not 
omit any part When you have with great care buttered it, 
put into the mould a hand full of fine, sifted sugar; shake it 



286 PRAOTIOAL OOOKBRT. 

well about the mould ; then knock all that does not stick to 
the mould out on paper ; if it should be a mould that will not 
stand, set it in some sand on your baking sheet ; then get 
ready the things for your cake. For a high, large Savoy cake, 
break twelve eggs in a lai^e basin ; weigh out the weight in 
sifted sugar of nine eggs, and flour dried and sifted the weight 
of six eggs ; put to the sugar the grating of three lemons ; 
then whip with your whisk over a slow fire the twelve eggs, 
for about a quarter of an hour ; take it off the fire ; put in 
your sugar and lemon peel ; continue whipping it fast until 
cold, about a quarter of an hour longer ; then gently mix in 
your flour; when well stirred in, three parts will fill your 
mould ; put it directly into a moderate oven ; you will know 
when it is done, by thrusting your knife or a dean skewer 
down the middle, and if it comes out clean, it is done. If you 
have any lefl, butter some sponge biscuit moulds, and fill them 
with it, sifling, when full, some sugar over the top, not too 
thick ; turn them gently over, and they will drop out when 
done. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, ten eggs. Beat 
the whites and yolks separately, and mix the latter with the 
sugar, which has previously been flavored with lemon, or any 
thing else to suit the taste. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
and mix them and the flour alternately with the sugar and 
yolks. Bake in a quick oven. 

A SMALL SPONGE CAKE — ^VEBT GOOD. 

Yive full-sized eggs, the weight of four in sugar, and of near- 
ly three in flour, will make an exceedingly good cake ; it may 
be flavored with lemon rind, or with bitter almonds, vanilla, or 
confected orange blossoms reduced to powder. An hour will 
bake it thoroughly, AU the ingredients for sponge cakes should 



CAXSS, BISCUITS, BRXAD, BTO. 287 

be of good quality, and the sugar and flour should be dry ; 
they should also be passed through a fine sieve kept expressly 
for such purposes. The excellence of the whole depends much 
on the manner in which the eggs are whisked ; this should be 
done as lightly as possible ; but it is a mistake to suppose that 
they cannot be too long beaten, as after they are brought to a 
state of perfect firmness they are injured by a continuation of 
the whisking, and will at times curdle, or render a cake heavy 
from this cause. -m 

8P0NGB OAKB. 

One pound of sugar, finely ground ; half a pound of sifted 
fk)ur ; eight eggs ; one teaspoon full of salt : one tablespoon 
full of rose brandy, or a teaspoon full of lemon extract. Beat 
the yolks of the egg^ flour and sugar together, until it is smooth 
and light ; beat the whites of the eggs to a high froth ; then 
beat altogether, until well mixed ; a bit of volatile salts, the 
size of a small nutmeg, dissolved in a little hot water, may be 
added to it Butter a square tin pan, line it with paper, and put 
in the mixture more than an inch deep ; bake in a moderate 
oven. 

BIOK SPONGE OAKB. 

Nine eggs, and the weight of them in sugar ; the weight of six 
in rice flour ; have the sugar finely sifled ; mix the sugar and 
rice together ; have the whites and the yolks beat separately ; 
pour the eggs at the same time into the rice and sugar ; beat 
the whole together about a quarter of an hour, and then add of 
the essence of lemon twenty drops, or rose water. Bake in 
this as above. 

eUGAB DBOPS. 

Stir to a cream three ounces of butter, six of powdered white 
sugar ; then add three beaten eggs, half a pound of sifled flour, 
half of a nutmeg. Drop this mixture by the large spoon full 



288 PRACTICAL COOKKRT. 

on to buttered plates, several Inches apart, sprinkle Rmall su- 
gar plums on the top, and bake them directly. 

BUGAB CAKSS. 

Take half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, two ounc- 
es of flour, two e^s, but the white of one only, a little beatea 
mace, and a little brandy. Mix all togetber into a paste with 
your hands ; make it into little cakes, and bake them on tins. 
You may put in six ounces of curr^s, if you like. 

SEED CAKES. 

Take one pound of flour; twelve ounces of lump sugar, 
pounded fine ; seven eggs well beaten with the sugar ; one ounce 
of caraway seeds dried and pounded ; and two l|ii^e table- 
spoons of sour cream with a teaspoon full of pearlash. Bake 
an hour, if in one large cake ; but if in tins or small ones, flf 
teen minutes. 

BHRUWSBUBT CASE. 

One pound of flour ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; 
three of butter ; four eggs ; beat till very light ; bake moder- 
ately. 

SOFT OAKB IN LTTTLE PANS. 

One cup and a half of sugar ; the same of butter ; eight eggs ; 
and half a nutmeg ; or without if preferred. 

80DA0AXE. 

To one cup of sugar, add butter the size of an egg and one 
egg ; mix well together ; then add two spoons full cream tar- 
tar, one of soda, one cup of sweet milk ; season with lemon, or 
to suit the taste ; work in one pmt of flour, and bake to a 
nice brown. 

8FI0S CAKES. 

Two pounds of si fled flour, three-quarters of a pound of su- 
gar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, one tablespoon full of 



OAXBS, BISOUTTB, BBEAD, BTO. 389 

ground spices, one teaspoon full of salt, and two tablespoons 
full of yeast ; mix it to a nice dough with warm milk, cover it, 
and set it in a warm place for three hours ; then roll it thin ; 
out it in small cakes, and bake ten or twelve minutes in a quick 
oven. These may be fried as doughnuts, 

TWELFTH OAKB. 

In the center of sax pounds of flour make an opening ; set a 
sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, and a little warm milk ; 
put round it a pound of fresh butter in small lumps, a pound 
and a quarter of sifted sugar, four pounds and a half of currants, 
half an ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pound- 
ed cloves, mace, and nutmeg mixed, and sliced candied orange 
and lemon peel, and citron ; when risen, mix all tc^ether with 
a little warm milk, prepare the hoops as in a bride cake, fill 
and bake ; when nearly oold, ice them over with sugar. 

TEA. OAKES. 

Melt one ounce and a half of butter in a little new milk ; add 
a spoon full of yeast, and a little salt, mix it into a pound of 
flour, add an egg, and a spocn full of sugar. Knead it well 
until it leaves the hands ; let it rise two or three hours ; roll 
out, and stand an hour or less before the fire to rise, before 
baking in a moderate oven. 

TEA OAKEB. 

Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour ; 
add a quarter of a pound of fine loaf sugar, a few caraway 
seeds, and two eggs. With a little warm milk let the whole 
be made in a paste, which, being covered with a doth, is to 
stand before the fire nearly an hour. Then roll out the paste, 
cut it into round cakes with the top of a glass, and bake them 
upon floured tins. 

M 19 



890 PBAOTIOAL COOKBBT. 

* 
OBBAM TEA OAXES. 

Two pounds of flour, a teacup of butter, half pint of sour 
cream, half a. teaspoon full of saleratus, and a little salt Mix 
well If necessary, add more cream. Make into small round 
cakes and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. When done, open 
one side and insert a piece of butter, or serve otherwise, hot 

PLAIN TEA 6AKS8. 

A teacup and a half of sugar, half a teacup of butter, a little 
flour, and half a nutmeg. Dissolve a teaspoon full of saleratus 
in a teacup of* milk, strain and mix it with the cake ; add flour 
till stiff enough to roll out ; roll it out half an inch thick, cut 
it into cakes, bake them on flat^ buttered tins^ in a quick oven. 
If baked slow, they will not bo good. 

WASHINGTON CAIOL 

Beat six eggs very light; add one pound of butter; a pound 
of sugar ; a pint of rich milk or cream a little sour ; a glass 
of wine ; a powdered nutmeg ; a spoon full of cinnamon ; and 
lastly, a small teaspoon full of saleratus. Bake in tins or small 
pans in a brisk oven, and if wrapped in a thick cloth, it will 
keep soft a week. 

MUFFINS. 

To one quart of lukewarm milk, put a piece of butter, the 
size of an egg ; let it melt, then add flour enough to make a 
thick batter ; one tablespoon full of brewei'^s yeast ; let it rise 
until morning, then put in five eggs well beaten, and bake in 
rings. 

HABD WAFFLES. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, half 
a pound of butter, one glass of wine, one glass of rosewater, 
five eggs, mace and nutmeg. Butter your waffle irons, drop 
the cake in with a spoon, and shut quickly ; bake on both aideHi 



cAxxs, nsouns, brxad, xto. 291 

pare the edges before openiog the irons, and roll them while 
hot on a fork ; thej will cool crisp. 

WAn&T. 

Take fine flour dried and sifted, make it into a smooth, thin 
batter with very good milk or a little cream and water ; add 
about aa much white wine as will make it thick enough for pan- 
cakes ; sweeten it with a little loaf sugar. When thus pre- 
pared, have the wafer irons made ready, by being heated over 
a charcoal fire, rub the irons with a piece of linen cloth dipped 
in butter, then pour a spoon full of the batter upon them and 
dose them almost immediately ; turn them upon the fire ; pare 
the edges with a knife, as some of the batter will ooze out. A 
short time will bake them. When the irons are properly 
heated the wafers must be curled round while warm. 

BATAFIAB. 

Blanch half a pound of bitter almonds and half a pound of 
sweet ; take off the skins the day before, pound them together 
very fine, add two pounds of very fine sugar to them, and about 
eight whites of e^s, beat it well for a quarter of an hour in 
your mortar, take it out and squeeze it through a bladder and 
a pipe ; squeeze them the size of a six-pence upon kitchen pa* 
per ; bake them in a moderate oven, a light brown color ; let 
them get cold before you take them off the paper. 

BUK8. 

Hireo pounds of flour, half a pound of butter put into the 
warm milk, half a pound of moist sugar made fine, two ounces 
of yeast dissolved in a cup of cold water ; add to it a pint and 
a half of new milk and the butter made warm ; make a hole m 
your flour, which should be in a pan, and then pour in the milk, 
butter, and yeast ; keep it in until of a thick batter, cover it over 
and stand it where warm ; do not let it work too much ; theo 



292 PBACnCAL OOOKXBT. 

mix it into a dough quite smooth, stand it again where warm, 
and when it has risen work up and form jour buns. Grease 
your baking sheets, then put thetn where warm to prove ; jou 
must be sure to have the oven ready for them ; when baked have 
ready a little milk and sugar, mixed, which you will brush quick- 
ly over the bunai 

BATH BUNB. 

Rub with the hand one pound of fine flour and half a pound 
of butter ; beat six eggs and add them to the flour with a table- 
spoon full of good yeast ; mix them together with half a tea- 
cup full of milk ; set it on a warm place for an hour ; mix in 
SIX ounces of sifted sugar, and a few caraway seeds, mould them 
into buns with a tablespoon on a baking plate, throw six or 
eight caraway comfits on each, and bake them in a hot oven 
about ten minutes. These quantities should make eighteen 
buns. 

BUNS, OOMMON. 

Hub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, a little 
salt, four ounces of sugar, a dessertspoon full of caraways, and 
a teaspoon full of ginger; put some warm milk or cream to 
four tablespoons full of yeasL, mix all tc^ether into a paste, 
but not too sti^ cover it over and set it before the tire an hour 
to rise, then make it into buns ; put them on a tin, set them 
before the fire for a quarter of an hour, cover over with flannel, 
then brush them with very warm milk, and bake them of a 
lice brown in a moderate oveo. 

BVJSBj PLUM. 

Take two pounds of plain bun paste, add half a pound of 

drranta, a quarter of a pound of candied orange peel cut into 

r^all pieces, half a nutmeg grated, and half an ounce of mixed 

spice. Form them into buns, dent them round the edges with 

a knife, and proceed as above. 



OAJCSS, BISCUITS, BRXAD, XTO. 293 

SEED BUNS. 

Mix one ounce of caraway seeds in two pounds of plain bun 
dough; form it into buns; butter the insidesof tart-pans, and 
put one into each pan, place them near the fire to rise, and when 
this is done ice them with the white of an e^ beaten to a firoth ; 
sprinkle powdered sugar over that, dissolving it with water 
splashed from a brush. Bake it ten minutes. 

BUSK. 

Seven pounds of flour, seven eggs, three pints of milk, two 
and a half pounds of sugar, one and a half pounds of butter, one 
pint of yeast, nutmeg or cinnamon ; rub the flour, sugar, and 
butter together, then add the rest, and put it to rise over night. 

ANOTHER BUSK. 

Five pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of sugar, one 
pound of butter, Ave e^;s, one pint of yeast, one ounce of spice, 
one quart of new milk ; mix the flour, milk and yeast together 
over night; add the rest in the morning and let it rise again ; 
put it in the pans, and set it to the fire till the oxea is ready, 
gloss the tops with whites of eggs and milk. 

BREAD, BIBGUrr, TSAST, ETC. 
WHEAT BREAD. 

For four common sized loaves of bread, mix two pints of 
boiling water, and fbur quarts of flour. When thoroughly mixed, 
add two pints of cold water. Sdr till the whole of the dough 
is of the same temperature. When lukewarm, stir in a cup 
of &mily yeast, (if brewer's yeast, a less quantity,) two or three 
teaspoons full of salt, knead in flour till stifl* enough to mould 
up, and free from lumps. The more the bread is kneaded, the 
better it will be. Cover it over with a thick cloth, and if the 
weather is cold, set it near a fire. To ascertain when it has 
risen, cut it through the middle with a knife ; if full of smali 



294 PRAOTZCAI. COOKXBT, 

holes like a sponge, it is sufficiently light for baking. Bake as 
soon as light If your bread should get sour before you are 
ready to bake it, dissolve one or more teaspoons full of salera- 
tus (according to the acidity of it) in half a teacup of milk or 
water, strain it on to the dough ; work it in well ; then cut off 
enough for a loaf of bread ; mould it up well ; slash it oo both 
sides, to prevent its cracking when baked ; put it in a buttered 
tin pan. The bread should stand a few minutes in the pans be- 
fore baking it ; let it stand in the oven an hour to an hour and 
a hal^ if a brick oven« When the wheat is grown, it makes 
better bread to wet the flour entirely with boiling water. It 
should remain till oool before working in the yeast. • 

Some cooks have an idea that it kills the life of the floor to 
scald it, but it is a mistaken idea — it is sweeter fi)r it, and will 
keep good much longer. Bread made in this way is nearly 
as good as that which is wet with milk. Oare must be 
taken not to put the yeast in when the dough is hot, as it will 
scald it, and prevents it rising. Most brick ovens require 
heating an hour and a half for bread. A bride fire should be 
kept up, and the doors of the room should be kept shut, if the 
weather is cold. To ascertain if your oven is of the right 
temperature, when cleaned, throw in a little flour ; if it browns 
in the course of a minute, it is sufficiently hot ; if it turns black 
directly, wait several minutes before putting in the things that 
are to be baked. If the oven does not bake well set in a 
furnace of live coals. 

■ 

EXOELLEIirr BBBAD. 

Two quarts of boiled milk ; when lukewarm, add a pieoe 
of butter the size of half an egg, some salt and an egg. SUr 
in flour enough to make a stiff batter, then a gill of good yeast; 
(if your yeast is not lively, stir in a little saleratus,) add flour 
gradually, till it is a stiff dough. Knead it agreat deal, and 



0AKX8, BIBCiriTS, BRS^D, XTO. 2M 

set it to rise. When well raised, work it over, and let it rise 
again, then bake immediately. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

A person once accustomed to this bread will never wil- 
lingly live without it. To make it^ take one quart of rye 
meal, two quarts of Indian meal — ^if not fresh, scald it — ^half a 
teacup full of molasses, two teaspoons full of salt, one teaspoon 
full of saleratus, one teacup full of home brewed yeast, or half 
the quantity of distillery yeast ; make it as stiff as can be 
stirred with a spoon, with warm water, and let it rise from 
night till morning. Then put it into a large, deep pan, smooth 
the top with the hand, dipped in oold water, let it stand a few 
minutes, and then bake it in an oven five or six hours. If put 
in late in the day, it may remain in the oven over night 

PREMIUM BREAD. 

The Rhode Island Society for the •promotion of Industry, 
gave the Brst premium on domestic bread to Mrs. Hiram Hill, 
of Providence. The following is Mrs. Hiirs recipe for making 
the bread exhibited by her : For two loaves of the ordinary 
size, take two potatoes, pare them, slice very thin, and boil 
quick until quite sofl ; then mash it to a fine pulp, and add, 
little by little, two quarts of boiling water, stirring until a 
starch is formed ; let this cool, and then add one-third of a cup 
of yeast This forms the ^ sponge," which should remain in a 
moderately warm place for ten or twelve hours, or over night, 
until it becomes very light and frothy ; even if a little sour, it 
is of no consequence. When the ^^ sponge " is ready, add 
flour, and work it in until you have formed a stifl^ firm mass. 
The lijnger and more firmly this is kneaded, the better the 
bread. Let the kneaded mass remain say from half to three* 
quarters of an hour to rise, then divide into pans, where it 
^ould remain, say fifteen minutes ; oare being taken that it 



5^ FBACnOAL OOOXIBT. 

• 

does not rise too much and crack : then pat the loaves into a 
quick oven, and bake, say three-quarters of an hour. If the 
oven IS not hot enough, the bread will rise and crack ; if too 
hot, the sur&oe will harden too rapid Ijr, and confine the loaL** 

BBOWIC OBAHAM BBSAD. 

One quart superfine flour, one quart unbelted flour, and one 
pint bidian meal, sifled and scalded. Add a little molasses, if 
preferred. Mix as wheat, unng yeast, salt, dnx Bake when 
light 

BIOH OOBN BBBAD. 

Take one egg, well beaten; half a pint of thidc cream; In- 
dian meal sufficient to form a thick batter ; a small quantity 
of salt ; add half a teaspoon full of saleratus dissolved in a 
small quantity of water ; after mixing thoroughly, put it into 
the pans or oven, and bake immediately. 

BOSTON BTE-AlfD-INDIAN BBBAD. 

One quart of Indian meal, three pints of rye meal, one 
teacup of molasses, one of yeast. Salt ; mix all well with 
warm water ; smooth it over the top by dipping the hand in 
water. Let it stand to rise ; when it cracks, it is ready to 
bake. Iron pans are the best to bake it in. It requires a great 
deal of baking ; about four hours for a loaf of this size. 

8AGOBBXAD, 

With two pounds of sago, well soaked in water or milk 
some hours, mix the same quantity of wheat flour. If pre- 
ferred, a little Indian meal, also. Saleratus and yeast to be 
used as with other kinds of bread. When well raised, it should 
have a good, quick bake. It is delicious, healthy and cheap. 
For invalids it b particularly good. 



OAKS8, BISCUITS, BREAD, STO. 297 

DIET BREAD, WHICH XEBPB MOIBT. 

Three quarters of a pound of lump sugar, dissolved in a 
quarter of a pint of water ; half a pound of the best fbur, 
seven eggs, taking away the whites of two ; mix the liquid su- 
gar when it has boiled, with the eggs ; beat them up tc^ether 
in a basin with a whisk ; then add, by degrees, the flour, beat- 
ing all together for about ten minutes ; put it into a quick oven. 
An hour bakes it. 

Tin moulds are the best ; the dimensions for this quantity 
are six inches in length and four in depth. 

POTATO BREAD. 

Boil a quantity of potatoes ; drain them well, strew over 
ihem a small quantity of salt, and let them remain in the ves- 
sel in which they were boiled, closely covered, for an hour, 
which makes them mealy ; then peel and pound them as smooth 
as flour. Add four pounds of potatoes to six of wheat flour, 
and make it into dough with yeast, in the way that bread is 
generally made. Let it stand three hours, to rise. 

RICE BBBAD. 

Boil half a pound of rice in three pints of water, till the 
whole becomes thick and pulpy. With this, and yeast, and 
six pounds of flour, make your dough. In this way, it is said, 
as much bread will be made, as if eight pounds of flour, with- 
out the rice, had been used. 

RTB BREAD. 

Take two quarts of wheat flour, two pounds of rye flour, a 
little salt, a fourth of a pint of good yeast, and as much warm 
water as will make it into stiff dough. Let it stand three 
hours to rise before you put it into the oven. A large loaf 
win take three hours to bake. 

M* 



298 PEAOnOAL COOKBRT, 

BTTTTEiUBD l^OAYBB. 

Take three quarts of new milk ; pat in as much rennet as 
will turn it ; whey the curds very clean ; break them small 
with your hands ; put in nine yolks of eggs and one white ; a 
hand full of grated bread, half a hand full of flour, and a little 
salt. Mix these together, workmg it well with your hands; 
rdil it into small loaves, and bake them in a quick ovea three- 
quarters of an hour. Then take half a pound of butter, four 
spoons full of (dear water, half a nutm^ siloed very thin, and 
a little sugar. Set it on a quick fire, stirring it quickly, and let 
it boil till thick. When the loaves are baked, cut out the top 
and stir up the crumb with a knife ; then pour some of the but- 
ter into each of them, and cover them up again. Strew a lit- 
tle sugar on them ; before you set them in the oven, beat the 
yolk of an egg and a little beer together, and with a feather 
smear them over with it. 

FRENCH BOLLS. 

To two quarts of the best flour, put three eggs, leaving out 
one white ; a little salt, a half pint of good yeast, and as much 
new milk, a little warmed, as will make it a thin, light paste. 
Stir it about with your hand, or with a large wooden spoon, 
but by no means knead it. Set it in a pan before the Are for 
about an hour, or till it rises ; then make it up into little rolls, 
and bake it in a quick oven. 

BUTTEB BIBOtTTFB. 

Hslf a pound of butter, two pounds of flour sifted, half a 
pint of milk, or cold water, a teaspoon full of salt ; cut up the 
butter in the flour, and put the salt to it ; wet it to a stifl* dough 
with the milk and water ; mix it well with a knifo, throw some 
flour on the paste-board, take the dough out of the pan, and 
knead it very welL Boll it out into a large, thick sheet, and 
beat it very hard on both sidee with the rolling-pin ; beat it a 



0AK8B, BX0OUIT8, BEBAH, BTO. 299 

long time, out it out with a tin or cup into small, round, thick 
cakea Beat each cake on both sides with a rolling pin, prick 
them with a fork, put them hi buttered pans, and bake them 
of a light brown in a slow oven. 

SODA BISCinTB. 

Take one quart of flour, two teaspoons full oreain of tar- 
tar, one teaspoon full of salt, one of saleratus or soda, and a 
small piece of butter for shortening. Mix with water or milk. 

ANOTHEB. 

One pound of flour, two teaspoons full of cream of tartar, 
one teaspoon full of soda. Put the cream of tartar into the 
flour dry ; dissolve the soda in a little milk ; wet the whole 
with milk, making it suflicientlj stiff to mould into biscuits. 

POTATO BISCUrTB. 

Boil mealy potatoes very soft, peel and mash them. To 
four good, sized potatoes, put a piece of butter of the size of a 
hen^s egg, a teaspoon full of salt. When the butter has melU>d, 
put in half a pint of cold milk. If the milk cools the pota- 
toes, put in a quarter of a pint of yeast, and flour to mako 
them of the right consistency to mould up. Set them in a 
warm place — when risen, mould them up with the hand — ^let 
them remain ten or fifteen minutes before baking them. 

baker's bolls. 

Two pounds of wheat flour, a large tablespoon full of yeast, 
a teaspoon full of salt, and a bit of saleratus the size of half a 
small nutmeg, dissolved in a tablespoon full of hot water ; 
make it into a soft dough with warm milk, work it or knead 
until it is smooth and shining, then cover it and set it in a 
warm place for two hourSb Work it smooth agaiih-*let it rise 
agaiD"--theD work itdown anddivideit In pieoettwksatfaeus 



800 PSAOnOAL OOOKSRT. 

of a hen's egg ; roll k between your hands to the length of a 
finger ; lay them so as to touch each other on baking tins ; dip 
your hand in milk and pass it lightly over the tops of the 
rolls, and set them in a quick oveia for fifbeen or twenty min- 
utes, until they are baked, and the tops a delicate brown — 
break open one to know if they are done. Serve for break- 
fiist; to be broken open — cutting light hot cakes soddens them. 

TECA SUSK. 

A pint of warm milk, a little baker's yeast, salt, and half 
a teaspoon full of saleratus ; put to it enough wheat flour to 
make a soft dough; mix it well and smooth; cover it, and set 
it in a warm place ; when light, add half a teacup of sugar 
and a cup of melted butter ; work them well into the dough ; 
flour your hands well, and make it in small cakes ; lay them 
dose together in a buttered pan ; dip a feather in a little sweet- 
ened milk, and pass it lightly over the tops of the rusks ; set 
them in a quick oven for half an hour ; serve hot 

8ALLT LUNN. 

Take two and a half pounds of flour, five e^s, three^uar« 
ters of a pound butter, melted without oiling ; one and a half 
pints milk mixed with the melted butter ; a little mace, a ta- 
blespoon full of rosewater, and one gill of yeast The Sally 
Lunn should be put into the moulds or pans when it has been 
made about an hour, and left to rise. Bake as a pound cake ; 
serve hot with tea. 

TSAST. 

Boil well a hand full of hope in acouple of quarts of water. 
Strain the liquor, and put it back on the fire ; with a little of 
the liquor, mix smoothly three heaping tablespoons full of 
wheat flour, and stir it into the liquor when it boils. Let it 
boil five or six minutes. When lukewarm, stir in a teacup of 
yeasty and keep it in a warm place till risen. When of a 



0AXX8, BIBOUIT0, BBBAD^ BTO. 801 

fiothj appearanoe, it is sufficiently light Add a tablespoon 
&11 of salt; turn it into a jar, and cover it tightly. When- 
ever your yeast gets sour, the jar should be thoroughly cleaned 
before fresh is put in. Yeast made in this manner will keep 
good a fortnight in warm weath^ ; in cold weather longer. 
If your yeast appears to be a little changed, add a little salera 
tus to it before you mix it with your bread. If it does not 
foam well when put in, it is too stale to use. 

jmik Yeasi (or emptyings) is made by mixing half the 
quantity of milk you need for your biscuit, with a teaspoon 
full of salt and a little flour, and setting it in a warm place. 
When light, mix it with the rest of the milk, and use it di- 
rectly for the biscuit It takes a pint of this yeast for five or 
six loaves of bread. It b nice for biscuit, but is not generally 
liked for bread. 

Some persons prefer to save a small quantity of dough 
fix>m each baking, by drying it or otherwise, for the next 
baking. 

Potato Tea$t is made thus: Boil a couple of potatoes; 
mash them very fine, removing all the lumps ; add a couple 
of tablepoons full of wheat flour, and a quart of hot hop tea ; 
when lukewarm, stir in half a teacup of yeast ; when light) put 
in a couple of teaspoons full of salt ; put it in your yeast-jar 
and cover it up tight 

TBAST. 

Three quarts of water ; allow it to come to a boiling point ; 
put in two hands full of hops tied in a bag ; boil it half an 
hour ; take out the hops, stir in two quarts of grated raw po- 
tatoes ; a teacup two-thirds full of molasses ; a teaspoon full of 
salt ; let it boil ten minutes longer. When about blood warm, 
add a small bowl full of yeast ; stir it well ; afler it rises, stir 
it thoroughly once more. Bottle it the next day ; lay the 
corks over the tops of the bottles ; cork it tight the day after, 



M2 PMonoAL ooQsntr. 

and keep it in a oool place. When a botde h emply, wash 
and scald it thoroughly ; it is well to rinse it with saleratua 
water to prevent any acidity. 

TSA8T GAS3EB. 

Make a thick batter of a pint of good yeast, a teaspoon full 
of salt) and rye or wheat flour. When risen, stir in Indian meal 
till of the right consistency to rdl out. When risen again, 
roll thern out very thin, cut them into cakes with a tumbler, 
and dry them in the diade in clear, windy weather. Oare 
must be taken to keep them from the sun, or they will fer- 
ment When perfectly dry, tie them up in a bag, and keep 
them in a cool, dry place. To raise four or five loaves of bread, 
take one of these cakes and put to it a little lukewarm milk 
or water. When dissolved, stir in a couple of tablespoons 
full of flour ; set it near the fire. When light, use it for your 
dough. Yeast cakes will keep good five or six months. They 
are very convenient to use in summer, as common yeast is so 
apt to ferment. 



CHAPTER XXIL 
OOFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA. 

Corm and tea have now become such universal beverages 
for the morning or aiier dinner meal, that beyond a few gen 
era! directions, little remains for prefatory matter. 

CofTee should be purchased in the berry, and freeh roasted ; 
It should always, when possible, be ground just previous to be- 
ing made. After it is ground, it should not be exposed to the 
air, as the aroma speedily flies o£ If more is ground than 
required for the meal, keep it in a glass bottle closely stopped, 
or a tight tin canister. Coffee, like tea, should be an infusion, 
not a deooction. 

The best ooflfee la the Mocha, the next ia the Java, and 
closely approximating is the Jamaica and Berbice. 

Of tea, little need be said; almost every one knows the 
rules for making it 

Boiling water should alone be used. 

Earthen tea pots in preference to metaL 

Silver is better than either. 

Chocolate can only be obtained pure of a first-rate house ; 
that oonunonly sold, b most infamously adulterated. 

Cocoa is the foundation of dliooolate ; it may be pounded, 
and either boiled as milk, or boiling water may be poured 
upon it It is very digestible, and of a &ttening nature. 

COFFEB AND TEA 
OOFFKB. 

To make good common co^e, allow a tablespoon fiill of it| 
when properly roasted and ground, to eaioh pint of witar. 



804 P&AOTIOAL OOOKKBT. 

Turn on the water boiling hot, and boil the oofllee lb a tin pot 
fix>in twenty to twenty-five minutes — 1£ boiled longer, it will 
not taste fresh and lively. Let it stand, after being taken from 
the fire, four or five minutes to settle ; then turn it off* care- 
fiilly from the grounds, into a coffee pot or urn. When the 
coffee is put on the fire to boil, a piece of fish skin, (prepared 
and dried for that purpose,) or isinglass of the sice of a shil- 
ling, should be put in, or the white and shell of half an egg, to 
a couple of quarts of coffee. When cream cannot be procured 
for coflee, the coffee will be much richer to boil it with a less 
proportion of water than the above rule, and weaken it with 
boiling hot milk, when served out in cups. 

Another way for making coffee is, to put the ground coffee 
into a wide-mouthed bottle over night, and pour raUier more 
than half a pint of water upon each ounce and a half, and to 
cork the bottle ; in the morning to loosen the cork, put the hot* 
tie into a pan of hot water, and bring the water to a boiling 
heat The coflfee is then to be poured off dear, and the latter 
portion strained ; that which is not drank immediately is kept 
closely stopped, and is heated as it is wanted. 

▲ BUBSimTTB VOB GREAK FOB OOFFEB. 

Beat up a fresh egg, then pour boiling water on it gradually 
to prevent its cuitlling. It is difficult to distinguish it from 
rich cream, 

OOFFEB, TO B0A8T. 

Coffee should never be roasted but when yon are going to 
use it, and then it should be watched with the greatest care^ 
and made of a gold color ; mind and do not bum it, for a few 
grains burnt would communicate a bitter taste to the whole ; 
it is the best way to roast it in a roaster which turns with the 
hand, over a 5*>M^Jw>ai fire, as by that means it will not be for« 



OOVFSK, TSA, OHOCOLATK, COCOA. 805 

a 

gotten, which is very often the case when in the oven, or h^ 
fore the fire. 

OOFFEE MILK. 

Boil a dessertspoon full of a coffee in nearly a pint of milk 
a quarter of an hour, then put in a little isinglass and dear 
it, and let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the fire to grow 
fine. 

' OOFFBB CBEAM. 

Mix three cups of good oofiee with one pint of cream, and 
sugar according to taste ; boil them together, and reduce them 
about one-third ; observe that the coffee must be done as if it 
was for drinking alone, and settle very clear before you mix it 
with the cream. 

OOFEB AU OREME. 

Put two spoons full of coffee with some sugar into three 
pints of cold cream ; boll it up for half an hour ; let it stand ; 
beat up the yolks of eight eggs, strain them through a sieve, 
and mix the whole together ; put the vessel into boiling water 
to simmer over a slow fire, keeping it constantly stirred. 

OOFFEB — TO GIVE THE FLAYOS OF YAKILL A. 

Take a hand fiill of oats, very clean, and let them boil for five 
or six minutes in soft water ; throw this away, and fill it up 
with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour ; then 
pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make 
your cofi^ which will acquire, by this means, the flavor of 
vanilla, and is very nice. 

OOFFEB IGB A L'lTALIEimE. 

Infuse a quarter of a pound of coffee in a pint of double 
cream, boiling hot, for two hours, closely covered ; half whip 



306 PKACTIOAL OOOKXHT. 

the whites of nine eggs, and having strained the oream from 
the coffee, mix it with them ; add half a pound of powdered 
Bugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, 
then ice it. 

OOFFEE FROTHED OB WHIPPED. 

Take a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, make a very 
strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining bag ; 
having dissolved three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar 
in a pint of double cream, and the yolks of six eggs, put in 
the ooflee, of which there should be no more than three cups, 
and whipped as directed in froth cream. 

OOFFEE JELLT. 

Roast a quarter of a pound over a moderate fire, to a fine yel- 
low ; take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and 
throw the rest into three glasses of nearly boiling water ; cover 
it close, and let it cool. In the meantime, boil half a glass of 
water and pour it over the small portion of cofiee, which should 
be ground ; add a little isinglass ; when perfectly clear, pour 
it to the other mixture. Having strained it through a silk sieve, 
filter the whole, and mix it with three-qi^arters of a pound of 
clarified sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass of 
kirschwasser. Finish with ice. 

CHOOOLATB. 

According as you intend to make this, either with milk or 
water, for each cup of one or the other of these liquids put into 
a chocolate pot, add one ounce of cake chocolate. Some per- 
sons dissolve the chocolate before they put it into the milk ; 
let it boil slowly or just simmer for half an hour ; add cream 
or milk to it, and sugar to taste ; or the sugar noay be omit- 
ted until served. 



OOm^ ISA, CHOOOLATS, OOCOA. 807 

OHOOOLATE DBOPS. 

Take one pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a pewter 
plate, and put it into the oven, just to warm the chocolate ; 
then put it into a copper stewpan, with three-quarters of a 
pound of powdered sugar ; mix it well over the fire ; take it 
ofl^ and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles ; put them 
on white paper, and when they are all on, take the sheet of 
paper bj each comer and lift it up and down, so that the pa- 
per may touch the table each time, and by that means you 
will see the drops come quite &t, about the size of a sixpence. 
Put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are 
on the paper ; then shake them oS, and you will see all the 
chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpareils; let 
them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put 
them in a box, prepared. 

CHOOOLATB BON-BONS. 

Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire to dis- 
solve ; and having boiled two pounds of sugar, put a spoon 
or two full into the chocolate ; stir it well till it forms a thin 
paste, and then pour it on the sugar, and boil it again ; in the 
meantime, melt a little butter, skim and pour it off clear into 
a basin ; rub a spoon full of it with your hand over a marble 
slab or table; on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then 
mark the sugar in squares all over, as quickly as possible, be- 
fore it cools. Loosen the sugar from the marble with a knife 
blade, and pass under it sheets of paper ; when cold, break 
into pieces^ according to marks, and wrap each in a bit of 
paper. 

TEA. 

Scald the teapot, and if the tea is a strong kind, a teaspoon 
full for a pint of water is sufficient ; if it is a weak kind, more 
will be required. Pour on just enough boiling water to cover 
the tea, and let it 8teep« Green tea should not steep more 



806 nUOTIOAL OOOXSRT. 

than five or six minutes before drinking; if steeped longer, it 
will not be lively. Black tea requires steeping ten or twelve 
minutes to extract the strength. 

TEA CBBAH. 

Boil two drachms or more of good green tea in a quart of 
milk ; in p few minutes strain it ; add three yolks of eggs, 
well beaten, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar ; set it 
on the fire, and reduce it to hal^ then strain it again ; when 
oold, serve it. 

TBA lOE. 

Take two drachms of the best tea ; tie it in a bit of mndin, 
and boil it in two quarts of cream ; when the infusion is sufii- 
ciently strong, take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix 
the cream with the eggs and sugar. 



CHAPTER XXffl. 

home: made wines. 

OW thai fruit and ao- 
gar are both so che^ 
all bousewiyes ma/ 
add wines to their 
houseliold stores aa 
eauly as they nia;^ 
preserves. The difli- 
culty and expense of 
making ia trifling, com- 
pared with what the 
i to be. Next to the 
ta the most important 
In wine countries, the 
er tbe influence of cli- 
[uns within itself the 
roperties to produce fer- 
wfaile with us artificial 
celled to be used to ao- 
L The four requisites 
for fermentation are sugar, vege- 
table extract, mHlio acid, and water; 
aod upon llie proper regulation of these constituents the suc- 
cess depends. 

The fermentation requires great attention, and ahoiild neither 
be BuSbred to continue too long, nor be checked too early. Its 



310 PRAOnOAL OOOKSRT. 

commencement, which will be about a day after the articlefl 
have been mixed, will attract attention by the noise it makes. 
For a sweet wine, the cask should not be closed until the 
sound of fermentation has almost ceased. If a dry wtlie, have 
ready a barrel which has been subjected to the fumes of sul- 
phur, and draw off your wine into it Rack off the wine, clear- 
ing it with isinglass, and bottle it in about ten weeks after. 

APPLE wnoB. 

Add to a barrel of cider the herb scurlea, the quintessence 
of wine, a little nitre, and a pound of syrup of honey. Let it 
work in the cask till clear and well settled ; then draw it o% 
and it will be little inferunr to Rhenish, either in deamess, 
oolor, or flavor. 

APBIOOT WTHTBL 

Pare and stone some ripe apricots ; bruise, and put them to 
six quarts of water and one of white wine ; simmer gently for 
some time ; when the fruit is soft, pour the liquid to the apri- 
cots, prepared as the others. Let it stand twelve bour% stir- 
ring it often ; pour off the liquid, and press the remains through 
a fine bag, and put them together in a cask to ferment : put a 
pound of sugar to each gallon. Boil an ounce of mace and 
half an ounce of nutmeg in a quart of white wine, and while 
hot) pour it in the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch of fi'esh 
burrage in the cask for three days ; draw it off, and keep in 
bottles. 

BALM WINS. 

Boil twenty pounds of lump sugar in four gallons and a half 
of water gently for four hours, and put it in a tub to cool ; 
bruise two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them 
into a barrel, with a little new yeast ; and when the syrup is 
nearly cold, pour it on the balm ; stir it well together, and let 
it stand four-and-twenty hours, stirring frequently; bring it 



BOMB UADtt WI1IX8. 81 1 

op, and when it has stood for six weeks, bottle it ; put a lump 
of sugar into each bottle ; oork tight 

BIRCH WINS. 

The season for procuring the liquor from the birch tree is 
in the beginning ci March, while the sap is rising, and before 
the leaves shoot out ; for when the sap is come forward and 
the leaves appear, the juice, by being long digested in the bark, 
grows thick and colored, which before was white and clear. 
The method of procuring juice is by boring holes in the body 
of the trees, and putting in fossets, which are made from the 
branches of elder, the pith being taken out You may, with- 
out hurting the tree, if large, tap it in several places, four or 
five at a time, and by that means save from a good many trees 
several gallons every day ; if you have not enough in one day, 
the bottles in which it drops must be corked dose and rosined 
or waxed ; nudce use of it as soon as you can. Take the sap, 
and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time. 
To every gallon of liqu(»r put four pounds of good sugar, and 
the thin peel of a lemon; boil it afterward half an hour, skim- 
ming it very well ; pour it into a clean tub, and when it is al- 
most cold, set it to work with yeast, spread upon a toast ; let 
it stand five or six days, stirring it often ; then take such a 
cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match, dipped in brim 
stone, and throw it into the cask ; stop it close until the match 
is extinguished ; tun your wine ; lay the bung on light till 
you find it has done working ; stop it close, and keep it three 
m<»ith8; then bottle it o£ 

VLJLOKBKRRY WINE. 

Put some ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a cock 
in it ; pour on as much boiling water as will cover them, and 
as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the 
hand Ull all the berries are broken ; cover them, and in about 



312 PRAOnOAL OOOKKRT. 

three or four days, when the berries rise tp the top, draw ofT 
the clear part into another vessel ; add to every ten quarts of 
the liquor one pound of sugar ; stir it well in, and let it stand 
a week or ten days to work. Draw it off through a jelly bag. 
Steep four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet wine for twelve 
bours ; then boil it slowly till dissolved ; put it in a gallon of 
thejuioe; Ixnl tliem together; tiien put all together; let it 
stand a few days, and bottle. 



CHERRY WTKB. 

To make five pints of this wine, take fifteen pounds of cher 
ries and two of currants ; bruise them together ; mix with 
them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole oi the cher- 
ries, currants, and kentels into a barrel, with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Hie barrel must be 
quite full ; cover the barrel with vine leaves, and sand above 
them, and let it stand until it has done working, whieh will 
be in about three weeks; then stop it with a bung, and in two 
months* time it may be bottled. 

GLART WINV. 

Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice 
of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of e^^ for half an 
hour, skimming it carefully ; then pour this, while boiling hot^ 
on a peck of fresh clary flowers, with the peels of the lemons 
used above, and stir it well ; add a thin dry toast, covered 
with yeast When it has worked two or three days, add to 
it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhenish wine. 
Squeeze the dary throu^ a doth ; strain the liquor through 
a flannel bag in a cask ; lay the bung on loosely, and if in the 
course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite dose. 
The wine may be bottled in three months. 



BOMS MADB WDIM. 81S 

OUBRANT WDf £• 

Take sixteen pounds of currants, three gallons of water ; 
break the currants with your hands in the water; strain it off; 
put to it fourteen pounds of sugar ; strain it into a vessel ; add 
a pint of brandy, and a (Hnt of raspbemea ; stop it down, and 
let it stand three months. 



OUREAJSn WINID — ^BED OB WHTIB. 

Take thirty pounds of either red or white currants, and an 
equal quantity of black currants, and small cherries not stoned, 
and leaving on the stalks; put the whole into a cask, and 
bruise them with a large stick ; then boil half a quarter of ju- 
niper berries in five or six pints of water, to which add half a 
pound of honey to make the juniper berries ferment ; when 
they have fermented, mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stir 
it together during fi>ur-and-twenty hours two or three times ; 
then fill up the cask with water, and close it This quantity 
will make one hundred and 6fly bottles of excellent wine; 
if you wish to make it stronger, put in a pint or two of 
brandy. 

GDBRAKT WUSTR. 

To every pail full of currants, on the stem, put one pail 
full of water ; mash and strain. To each gallon of the mix- 
ture of juice and water add three and a quarter pounds of su- 
gar. Mix well, and put in your cask, which should be placed 
in the cellar, on the tilt, that it may be racked off in October, 
without stirring up the ' sediment Two bushels of currants 
will make one barrel of wine. 'Four gallons of the mixture 
of juice and water will, after thirteen pounds of sugar are 
added, make five gallons of wine. The barrel should be filled 
within three inches of the bung, which must be made air- tight, 
by placing wet clay over it after it is driven in. 

N 



814 PBAOTICAI. OOOSXRT. 

DAHSON WINE. 

Gather the damsons on a dry day, and bruise them. Put 
them into a stein with a cock in it, and to every eight pounds 
of fruit add one gallon of boiling water. In two days you 
may draw it oflfj and put it into a vessel, and to every gallon 
of the liquor add two pounds and a half of sugar. Fill up, 
and stop it dose. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve 
months ; then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar in each bot- 
tle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for use in two 
months after. 

ELDEB WINE. 

Pour a gallon of boiling water over every gallon of berries ; 
let it stand twelve hours ; then draw it oS, and boil it up with 
three pounds and a half of sugar ; when boiling, beat up the 
whites of some eggs, and clarify it ; skim it clear; then add 
half an ounce of pounded ginger to every gallon of the wine ; 
boil it a little longer before you put it in the tub ; when cool, 
put in a toast rubbed in yeast ; let it ferment a day or two, 
after which put It into a barrel previously rinsed with brandy. 
All wines should be lukewarm when the yeast is added to it. 

OINOEB WINE. 

To every gallon of water add three pounds of sugar, and 
one pound of ginger, the paring of one lemon, half a pound 
of raisins, stoned ; boil all half an hour ; let it stand until it is 
lukewarm ; then put it into the cask, with the juice of a lemon ; 
add one spoon full of yeast to every gallon ; stir it every day 
for ten days ; then add half a pint of brandy to every two 
gallons, half an ounce of isinglass to every six gallons ; stop 
it close down, and in about eight weeks it will be fit to bottle. 

G008EBEBBY WINE. 

Bruise the gooseberries with the hands in a tub ; to every 
rix pouodi of fruit add a quart of looli wgrmg wattr, •tirriog 



HOMX MADI WINKS. 815 

it thoroughly ; let it stand twenty hours ; then strain it ; dis- 
solve two pounds of sugar to every quart of water employed ; 
let it remain another day ; remove the scum very clearly, and 
pour it into the utensil or cask in which it is to remain, pre- 
vious to heing bottled. The scum removed must be kept in 
flannel, and the drain ings caught in a vessel ; they must be 
added to the other liquor. Let it work about sixty hours, not 
more, and then cover down dose. In four months it will be 
ready for bottling. 

aSAPB WINB. 

To one gallon of grapes put one gallon of water ; bruise the 
grapes ; let them stand a week without stirring ; then draw it 
ofl^ and fine. Put to a gallon of wine three pounds of sugar ; 
put it in a vessel, but it must not be stopped till it has done 
hissing. 

MOUNTAIN WINK. 

Take some Malaga raisins, press and chop them fine, and to 
ten pounds of raisins put two gallons of water; let them steep 
three weeks, stirring it now and then during the time ; squeeze 
out the liquor and put it in a vessel that will just hold it, but 
be careful not to stop it until it has done hissing, then bung it 
up close. It will be fit for use in six months. 

PARSNIP WINE. 

Clean and quarter four pounds of parsnips, to which put one 
gallon of water ; boil them till tender, drain them through a 
sieve, but do not bruise them ; pour the liquor into a tub, and 
to each gallon add three pounds of lump sugar and half an 
ounce of crude tartar ; when cool put in the yeast, and let it 
stand four days in a warm room, then turn it The mixture 
should be fermented in a temperature of sixty degrees. When 
ftrmentaticm has subsided, bung down the cask, and let it stand 



316 PBACnCAX. COOXBBT. 

twelve raonths before bottling it March and September are 
the best months for makibg it It only requires to be kept a 
few years to make it superior to all other made wines. 

RAISIN WINE* 

One hundred of Smymas to twenty gallons of water (wine 
measure ;) boil half a poimd of hops in the water for an hour, 
let it stand till odd, th^ pour it over the fruit ; let it remain 
three weeks, stirring it every day ; press it off and put it into 
the cask ; do not bung it down till the fermentation has ceased ; 
when it has stood about a year draw it off dear, put it in the 
barrel again, and let it stand to settle before it is bottled ; be- 
fore it is bunged down close, put a quart of brandy to a hogs- 
head of wine ; what is thick should be run through a flannel 
bag. 

The time for steeping depends on the warmth of the weather. 
When the fiuit is sweUed ready to break, it is fit to press. 

RAfiPBEBBT WINE. 

Take throe pounds of raisins, wash, clean, and stone them 
thoroughly ; boil two gallons of spring water for half an hour ; 
as soon as ic is taken off the fire pour it into a deep stone jar, 
and put in the raisins, with six quarts of raspberries and two 
pounds of loaf sugar ; stir it well together, and cover them 
closely, an (set it in a cool place; stir it twice a day, then pass 
it through a sieve ; put the liquor into a close vessel, adding 
one pound more loaf sugar ; let it stand for a day and night to 
settle, after which bottle it, adding a little more sugar. 

WALNUT WINE. 

To one gallon of water put two pounds' of brown sugar and 
a pound of honey, and boil them for half an hour ; be careful 
to skim it clean ; put into a tub a hand fiill of walnut leaves 



Hom MADS wnrxs. 817 

to every gallon, and pour the liquor upon them ; let it stand 
all night, then take out the leaves and put in half a pint of 
jeast Let it work fourteen days ; beat it five times a day to 
take off its sweetness, and stop up the cask. It should stand 
six months before it is used. 

BA8PBXBBT VtNEGlS* 

To each quart of raspberries, allow a pound of loaf sugar. 
Mash the raspberries and strew the sugar over them, having 
first crushed it with the rolling-pin. Let the raspberries and 
sugar stand till next day, keeping them well covered, then put 
them in a thin linen bag and squeeze out the juice with your 
bands. To every pint of juioe allow a quart of the best vine- 
gar. Bottle it, cork it tightly, and^t it away for use. It will 
be ready in a few days. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
LIQUORS. BEVERAGES, ETO. 

OHEBKY BRANDY. 

Chooss the finest morel cherries you can obtain; place 
them in layers in glass jars, strew pounded sugar between each 
layer, cover them with brandy. As soon as the cherries have 
imbibed the brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them con- 
stantly covered. ^ 

OHEBBY BRANDY (bLAOK.) 

Pick and bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the 
same quantity of small black cherries; let them stand for two 
months in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two pounds of 
crushed sugar, and a quart of sack, well stirred together. At 
the end of that time it may be drawn off and bottled. 

CAPILLAIKBi 

Take fourteen pounds of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, 
SIX eggs beaten in with the shells, three quarts of water ; boil 
it up twice ; skim it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of 
orange flower water ; strain it through a jelly bag, and put it 
into bottles when cold ; mix a spoon full or two of this syrup, 
as it is liked for sweetness^ in a draught of warm or cold water. 

OAPILLAIBB — BYRUP OF. 

The capillaire of Canada, although that of Montpdlier ia 
equally good, is a very odoriferous vegetable, light and agreea- 
ble^ but so extremely volatile that the greatest part of it is dia- 



LIQUORS, BEVKRAaXS, ITO. Sift 

sipated during the preparation of the syrup. To preserve, then, 
the G^or of the capillaire, when the syrup is sufficiently done, 
pour it whilst boiling upon some fresh capillaire, coarsely chop- 
ped up, then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite 
cold ; then pass it through a boiling doth to separate it from 
the leaves of the capillaire; take one ounce of the capillaire 
from Canada, put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it four pints 
of boiling water, leave it to infuse for twelve hours over some 
warm ashes, strain it, and let it run into a vessel ; it will give 
you a strong tincture of capillare ; melt with this tincture four 
pounds of sugar ; put the whole into a preserving pan, and put 
it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg ; continue 
the cooking ; when your syrup boils put some fresh capillaire, 
chopped, into a pan, and pour your syrup whilst boiling upon 
it, cover your pan carefully, and let it cool ; when your syrup 
is cold you may flavor it if you please. Put it into bottles, and 
cork it hermetically. 

niPPOCBAS. 

Take one ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two 
penny we'^hts of cloves, nutmeg. Pound these together well, 
and infuse them in a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of 
malmsey ; to this add a pound of the best loaf sugar. These 
proportions will make a quart of the liquor. 

LEHONADE. 

Take four lemons, pare the rind as thin as possible ; squeeze 
them into a quart of water, add half a pound of fine sugar, let 
it stand two or three hours, and pass it through a jelly bag. 

HEAD. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey ; boil it 
an hour; then put it into a tub with some yeast on a toast; 
cover it over. If it fermenis well, after three or four days draw 



820 PRAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

it off dear, pnt it into a cask, with one lemon alioed to erery 
gallon ; add a bottle of brandy to every ten gallons. The rind 
of Sevflle oranges cut very diin, suspended in the barrel, will 
greatly improve the flavor, h is best to wash the cask round 
with part of the brandy before the liquor is put in. Those who 
like mead to have an aromatic flavor, may mix with it elder, 
rosemary, maijoram flowers^ and use dnnamon, dovea, girder, 
pepper, and cardamums in various proporttons^ aooording to 
taste. Others put ia a mixture of thyme, eglantine, rosemary, 
and maijoram, with various spices. 

iCEAD FBOIirnNIAO. 

Ten pounds of honey, ten pounds of the best raisins, and ten 
gallons of water *, boil about ten minutes, keeping well skim- 
med ; put it into a vessel to work ; put to it the fifth of a pint 
of yeast, letting it work until the yeast begins to fitU ; when 
taken dear off, turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask 
the fifth of a quart of elder flowers ; attend to it as the weather 
changes ; let it remain in the cask twdve months, fine it thea 
with wine finings, and bottle it. 

MEAD BACK. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and 
boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To 
every gallon add one ounce of hopB^ h(AL it half an hour, then 
let it stand until the following day ^ put it into a cask, and to 
thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it 
slightly until the fermentation is over, then stop it very dose. 
If you make a huge cask, keep it in the cask for twelve 
months. 

NOTBAir. 

Two gallons of gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound 
of sweet almonds ; pound them in a mortar, and beat to a fine 



paste ; six pounds of powdered sdgar (mix some widi the al- 
monds ;) let these stand ten days in the gin ; filter through 
blotting paper, and bottle it 

OSANaSADX. 

Squeeze the juioe ; pour some boiling water on the peel^ 
cover it oloselj, boil water and sugar to a thin syrup and skim 
it ; when all are cold, mix the juice, the infosion, and the syrup, 
with as much water as will make a rich sherbet ; strain through 
a jelly bag. 

PUNOH. 

Squeeze the juice of six fine lemons through a sieve into a 
china bowl; grate some lemon peel on a piece of sugar, 
scrape off the sur&ce as it becomes yellow, and dissolve the 
sugar in the lemon juice ; then pour in a bottle of champagne, 
the same of rum, a bottle of brandy, and a little green tea; 
dilute these ingredients with hot water at discretion. The 
quantity of sugar must be also regulated according to taste. 

FXJHOH, MILK. 

Fill a bottle as full as possible of lemon peel, and then add 
as mudi braudy as it will admit; let this, corked, stand in the 
sun two or three days; then mix with the brandy, having 
poured it out^ two pounds of sugar, two quarts of water, four 
of brandy, two of boiling milk, boiled with apice, and about a 
pint of lemon juioe ; when this is cold strain it till quite dear, 
and bottle it instantly. 

RATAFIA OF FOUB FBTTITB. 

Ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds and a half of 

raspberries, five pounds and a half of red, and two pounds and 

a half of black currants ; pick and mix these firuits together, 

preaa ^ joiea froite them, meMiir* tt^^md fer mvm quart of 

N» 21 



832 P&AOnOAL OOOKZBT. 

jmoe take half a pound of sugar and an equal quantity of bran- 
dy ; dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in the brandy, and 
a drachm of maoe, and two drachms of doves. Let the whole 
stand some tune; filter, and bottle it Keep them well corked. 

BHBUB. 

To a gallon of rum add a quart of Seville orange juice, with 
three pounds of lump sugar, and a hand full of the peel pared 
extremely thin ; let it stand in a cask for three months^ then 
filter it through a cloth and bottle it 

OUBRAJNT BHBUB. 

To a pint of strained currant juice, put a pound of sugar. 
Boil the sugar and juice gently together, eight or ten minutes, 
then set it where it will cool. Add, when lukewarm, a wine 
glass of French brandy to every pint of syrup — ^bottle and 
cork it tight — ^keep it in a cool place. 

I«EBC01ir 8HBUB. 

Procure nice firesh lemons — ^pare the rind off thin, then 
squeeze out the juice of the lemons, and strain it To a pint 
of the juice put a pound of white sugar, broken into small 
pieces. Measure out for each pint of the syrup three table- 
spoons fiill of French brandy, and soak the rind of the lemons 
in it Let the whole remain a day, stirring up the lemon 
juice and sugar fi^uently. The next day turn oiT the syrup, 
and mix it with the brandy and lemon rinds— put the whole 
in dean bottles, cork and seal them tight^ and keep them in 
dry sand, in a cool place. 

WHOLESUlCE BEVBBAOB. 

From half a pint to a pint of sweet milk boiled, to whidi is 
added a teaspoon fiill of curry powder and sugar to taste; 
drank warm it will be found a gratefiil beverage for those of 



LIQaOBS, BXYX&AOSS, ITO. 823 

weak bowels, and who may require to go abroad od ▼ery cold, 
raw mornings before break&st, and will be much better, nay 
entirely supersede, the use of ardent spirits. 

8PBINO BEEB. 

Take a small bunch of all, or part of the following : sweet 
fern, sarsaparilla, wintergreen, sassafras, prince's pine, and spice 
wood. Boil them with two or three ounces of hops to three 
or four gallons of water, and two or three raw potatoes, pared 
and cut in slices. The strength of the roots and hops is obtained 
more thoroughly by boiling them in two waters^for, when 
the liquor id strongly saturated with the hops, it will rather 
bind up the roots than extract their juices. The roots should 
be boiled five or six hours — ^the liquor should then be strained, 
and a quart of molasses put to three gallons of the beer. If 
you wish to have the beer very rich, brown half a pound of 
bread, and put it into the liquor. If the liquor is too thick, di- 
lute it with cold water. When just lukewarm, put in a pint 
of fresh, lively yeast, that has no salt' in it The salt has a ten- 
dency to keep it from fermenting. Keep it in a temperate 
situation, covered over, but not so tight as to exclude the air 
entirely, or it will not work. When fermented, keep it in a 
tight k^, or bottle and cork it up. 

OINGEB BEER. 

Boil gently, in a gallon of water, three tablespoons full of 
cream of tartar, three of ginger, and a lemon cut in slices. 
When it has boiled half an hour, take it from the fire, strain 
and sweeten to your taste ; white sugar is the best, but brown 
sugar or molasses answers very well. Put to it, when luke- 
warm, half a pint of fresh yeast. Turn it off carefully, when 
fermented, bottle it, and keep it in a cool plaosb It will be fit 
to drink in the course of seven or eight days. 



824 FBAOnOAL OOOKBKT. 

WHTTB BPBUCE BEBB. 

Three potmdd of loaf sugar; five gallons of water; widi 
enough <^ essence of spruce tx> give it a flavor ; a cup of good 
jeast ; a little lemon peel, if you chooee ; and when ferment- 
ed, bottle it up dose. It Is a delightful beverage in wanu 
weather. 

HABTEST DBINK. 

Mix with five galioos of good water, half a gallon <^ molas- 
aes, one quart of vinegar, and two ouncea of powdered ginger. 
Hub will make not only a very pleasant beverage, but one 
highly invigorating and healthful 

GBEAM SODA — AS EXCELLENT DBIKK FOR WABM WEATHER. 

Five pounds of loaf sugar, one ounce cream of tartar, one 
ounce E^peom salts, five ounces tartaric acid. Dissolve all the 
ingredients hi one gallon of water, and heat it till it boils ; and 
skim, if necessary. When cool, put the syrup m bottles, and 
set in a coiA place. To prepare the drink, put two or three 
tablespoons fUil of the s/rup into a tumbler two-thirds full of 
water; add one-fourth of a teaspoon full <^ super-carbonate of 
soda ; stir briskly, and tlie effervescence will be equal to anj 
soda from the Ibunit Try it 



CHAPTER XXV. 
PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 

BGO OBtTBL. 

Boil a pint of new milk ; beat two new laid eggs to a light 
froth, and pour in while the milk boils; stir them together tho- 
roughly, but do not let them boil ; sweeten it with the best of 
loaf sugar, and grate in a whole nutmeg; add a little salt, if 
you like it. Drink half of it while it is warm, and the other 
half in two hours. It is said to be good for dysentery, as well 
as nourishing. 

APFLB WATBB. 

Take one tart apple of ordinary size, well baked ; let it be. 
well mashed ; pour on it one pint of boiling water ; beat them 
well together ; let it stand to cool, and strain it off for use. Add 
loaf sugar, if the patient desire it. 

ABBOW BOOT. 

Put two teaspoons full of the powder into a basin ; mix 
them smooth with a few teaspoons full of oold water, and let 
another person pour boiling water oyer the mixture while you 
continue to stir it, imtil it forms a kind of starchy looking sub- 
stance. Thus prepared, it may be used in the same manner as 
grueL It is well adapted for the food of in&nts, because it is less 
liable to ferment than either gruel or barley water ; and, for the 
same reason, it is the best fluid nourishment for those who are 
afflicted with indigestion. A little milk or wiae may be added, 
to improve the flavor. 



826 PRAOnOAL COOKXRT. 

▲ NOUBIBHIErO JELI4T. 

Put into a stoDe jar or jug a set of calves* feet, cut in pieces^ a 
quart of milk, five pints of water, a little mace, half an ounce of 
isinglass, and a hand &11 of hartshorn shavings. Tie some 
brown paper over the jug, and put it into the oven with house- 
hold bread. When done, strain it through a sieve ; and when 
cold, take off the &t. Some of it may occasionally be warmed ^ 
up with wine and sugar. It is good taken as broth, with herbs. 

• 

BEEF TEA. 

Cut a pound of lean beef in thin sliees ; put it into a quart 
and half a pint of cold water ; set it over a gentle fire, where 
it will become graduaUy warm ; when the scum rises, let it 
continue simmering gently for about an hour, then strain it 
through a sieve or a napkin, let it stand ten minutes to settle, 
and then pour off the dear tea. This is one of the common re- 
storatives given to persons who are recovering from sickness. 

TOAST AND WATER. 

Toast thin slices of bread on both sides, carefully ; then 
pour cold water over the bread, and cover it tight for one 
hour ; or use boiling water, and let it cool. 

WATERS FOR OOOLIKa DRAUGHTS OF PRESERVED OR FRESH 
FRUITS — ^APPLB WATER, LEICON WATER, BTO. 

Pour boiling water <m the preserved or fresh fruits, sliced ; 
or squeeze out the juice, boil it with sugar, and add water. 

WATER GRUEL. 

Mix two tablespoons full of Indian or oat meal, with three 
of water. Have ready a pint and a half of boiling water in a 
saucepan or skillet, perfectly clean ; pour this by degrees into 
the mixture in the bowl ; than retoro it back into tiha akillet^ 



PBBPA&ATX0S8 FOB TBB 8I0K. 827 

and place it on the fire to boil. Stir it, and let it boil half an 
hour. Skim it, and season it with a little salt If it is admis- 
sible, a little sugar and nutmeg renders it more palatable. 
Also, if milk is not forbidden, a small teacup full added to a 
pint of gruel, and boiled up once, makes a nice dish for an 
invalid. 

HILK POBRIDaB. 

This is made nearly in the same way as gruel, only using 
half flour and half meal, and half milk instead of water. It 
should be cooked before the milk is added, and only boiled up 
once afterward. 

WINE WHEY. 

Take half a pint of new milk, put it on the fire, and the mo- 
ment it boils, pour in that instant two glasses of wine, and a 
teaspoon fiill of powdered sugar previously mixed. The curd 
will soon form, and after it has boiled, set it aside until the 
curd settles. Pour the whey off and add a pint of boiling 
water, and loaf sugar to sweeten to the taste. This may be 
drank in typhus and other fevers, debility, dec. 

OHIOKSK, BEEF, OS YEAL BBOTH. 

This is made by cutting up the chicken, or the lean of 
veal or beef, and putting in two spoons fiiU of washed rice, 
and boiling until tender. It may be used, if needed in haste, 
after boiling in less water about fifteen minutes, then fill- 
ing it up and finishing. It should be put by in a bowl or 
pitcher covered, to keep for use. Warm it, and add crumbs 
of crackers or bread a day or two old, with a little salt, and 
there is nothing more palatable for the sick. 



828 PRAOnOAL OOOKBBT. 

HOT LEMOKABB. 

Cut up the whole of a lemon, rind and all, add one tea* 
cup full of white sugar, and pour on boiling water. This is 
good for oolds, and is a pleasant drink for the sick. 

BIOIB OBUEL. 

Take one spoon fiill of rice, a pint and a half of water, a 
stick of cinnamon or lemon peel ; boil it soft, and add a 
pint of new milk;, strain it, and season it with a little salt 
If you make it of rice flour, mix one spoon full with a lit- 
tle cold water smoothly, and stir it into a quart of boiling 
water. Let it boil five or six minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Season it with salt, nutmeg and sugar, and, if admissible, a 
little butter. If the patient bears stimulants, a little wine 
may be added. 

EQG CSBAK. 

To the yolks of three eggs, and a dessertspoon full of 
good new milk or cream, add two drops of oil of cinna- 
mon. This is a very nourishing mixture. The oil of cinna- 
mon is cordial and tonic, and the above has been recom- 
mended in lung complaints, where respiration has been at- 
tended with pain, and a dry cough, especially after eating or 
exercise. It is also excellent in cases of hectic toward the eve- 
ning, and of profuse night sweats. 

0AT7DLB. 

Make a fine, smooth gruel of half grits ; when boiled, strain 
it; stir it at times till cold ; when wanted for use, add sugar, 
wine, and lemon peel, with some nutmeg, according to taste ; 
you may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoon full of 
brandy, or lemon juice. 



THE COOK'S TABLE 

or 
WEIGHTS AND MKASURKS. 



»'»• 



By which penofu net htmng ieaU» and wtighU at hand, may readily 
measure the artieUe wanted to form any recipe, without the trouble 
of weighing, Allcwanee to be made for an ^raordinary dryneu 
or moieture of the article weighed or meeieured. 



WEIGHT AND HEASUBE. 



Wheat floar, 
Indian meal, . 
Butter, when Boft^ 
Loaf sugar, broken. 
White eugar, powdered. 
Beat brown sugar, 
Eggs* 
Flour, 
Flour . 



one pound is 

one pound, two ounces^ it 

one pound is 

one pound is . 

one pound, one ounce is 

one pound, two ounces^ is 

ten eggs are . 

eight quarts are 

four peeks are 



UQUIDB) BTO. 



Sixteen large tablespoons full are 
Eight large tablespoons full are 
Four large tablespoons full are 
Two gills are ... 

Two pints are 
Four quarts are 
A common sized tumbler holds 
A common sized wine glass • 
A teacup is . • • 

A large wine glass is • • 
A tablespoon full 
Forty drops are equal to a 
Four teaspoons full are equal te 



one quart 
one quart, 
one quart 
one quart 
one quart 
one quart 
one pound, 
one peck, 
one bnsheL 



one 
one 



half a pint 
. one gilL 

half a gill 
. half a pint. 

one quart 
. one gallon. 

half a pint 
. half a gill. 

one gilL 
. two ounces. 

half ounce, 
teaspoon full, 
tablespoon full. 



DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



» • 



CHAPTER XXVL 
MISCELLANKOUS RKCIPBS. 

BLACKING. 

Ths best bladcing for preserving the leather of boots and 
shoes, and which will make it perfectly water-tight, is the fol- 
lowing : Take of yellow wax one ounce and a half, of mutton 
suet four ounces and a half^ turpentine half an ounce, ivory 
black three ounces ; melt first the wax, to which add the suet 
and afterward the turpentine ; when the whole is melted, re- 
move it fh>m the fire ; mix in, gradually, the ivory black, con- 
stantly stirring it till it is cold. This composition is some- 
times run into moulds, and sold under the name of blacking 
balls ; when it is used, it may be laid or rubbed upon a brush, 
which should be warmed before the fire; it is also the best 
blacking for every kind of harness ; when it is wanted in a 
large quantity, it may be gently melted in a ladle or pot over 
a chafing dish of live coals. 

TO KNOW GOOD FLOUB. 

When flour is genuine, or of the best kind, it holds together 
in a mass when squeezed by the hand, and shows the impres- 
sion of the fingers, and even of the marks of the skin, much 
longer than when it is bad or adulterated ; and the dough made 
with it is very gluey, ductile, and elastic, easy to be kneaded, 
and which may be elongated, flattened, and drawn in ererj di- 
rection without breaking. 



MISOCLLANBOUS RBGIPI8. 831 

TO OLXAK DBOANTEBB. 

Roll up in small pieces some ooarse brown paper, then wet 
and soap the same ; put them into the vessel with a little luke- 
warm water, and some common soda, shake them well, rinse 
with dean water, and it will be as bright and dear as when 
new. 

GLBAKINO VliOOS OLOTHB. 

After sweeping and cleaning the floor doths with a broom 
and damp flannel, in the usual manner, wet them over with 
milk, and rub them till beautifullj bright with a dry doth ; 
they will thus look as if they were rubbed first with a waxed 
flannd, and afterward with a dry one, without being so slip- 
pery, or so soon doling with dust or dirt 

GOOD 8HATING BOAP. 

Take four pounds white bar soap, one quart rain water, one 
half pint beef's gall, one gill spirits of turpentine. Cut the soap 
into thin slices, and boil five minutes after the soap is dissolved ; 
stir while boiling ; color it with one half paper vermillion — 
scent with what you like ; use the oil instead of essence. Sev- 
enty-five cents' worth of materials will make seven dollars' 
worth of soap. 

TO KEEP THE HAin>8 SOFT. 

Rub the hands wdl in soap till a lather is produced ; then 
rub on a suffident quantity of sand to let the soap predomi- 
nate ; after well rubbing, wash in warm water. Repeat this 
two or three times a day, as circumstances may require, and 
the hands will be kept perfectly soft. 

TO PBEVBirr IBON BUSTING. 

Warm your iron till you cannot bear your hand on it with- 
out burning yourself Then rub it with new and dean wax 



883 IK>]fX8TI0 KCONOM r. 

Put It again to the fire till it has soaked in the wax. When 
done, rub it over with a piece of aerge. This preventi the iron 
from rusting afterward. 

TO CLEAN TUBXEY OABPETTS. 

To revive the color of a Turkey carpet, beat it well with a 
stidE tiU the dust is all out, then with a lemon or sorrel juice 
take out the spots of ink, if the carpet be stained with anj ; 
wash it in cold water, and aflerward shake out all the water 
from the threads of the carpet ; when it is thoroughly diy rub 
it all over with the crumb of a hot wheat loa( and if the weath- 
er is very fine hang it out in the open air a night or twa 

TO OLEAK WATEB CASKS. 

Scour the inade well out with water and sand, and after- 
ward apply a quaotity of charcoal dust ; another and a better 
method is to rinse them with a strong solution of oil of vitriol 
and water, which entirely deprives them of their foulness. 

TO DEiiBCT wHrrora or chalk m floub. 

Mix with the flour some juice of lemon or good vinegar, if 
the flour be pure they will remain together at rest, but if there 
be a mixture of whitang or chalk, a fermentation or working 
like yeast will ensue ; the adulterated meal is whiter and heav- 
ier than the goodL 

A suBSTmrrB bob whttb oil paimt. 
Four quarts of skim milk, one pound of fresh-slacked lime, 
twelve ounces of linseed oil, (bur ounces of white Burgundy 
pitch, six pounds of Spanish white, to be mixed as follows : 
The lime to be slacked in water, exposed to the air, mixed in 
about one-fourth of the milk ; the oil, in which the pitch is to 
have been previously dissolved, to be added a little at a time ; 
then the rest of the milk, and afterward the Spamah white. 



MISOXLLAiraOUS BSCOFBS. 888 

This quantity is sufficient for more than fifty square yards with 
two coats. 

TO TAKB SMELL FBOM FBE8H PAOTT. 

Let tubs of water be placed in the room, newly painted, 
near the wainscot, and an ounce of vitriolic acid put into the 
water ; and, in a few days, this water will absorb and retain 
t^e effluvia from the paint, but the water should be renewed 
with a fresh supply once or twice. 

CEMENT FOB IBON WABB. 

Beat the whites of eggs to a froth ; then stir into them 
enough quicklime to make a consistent paste ; then add iron 
file dust to make a thick paste. The quicklime should be re- 
duced to a fine powder before mixing it with the e^a. Fill 
the cracks in iron ware with this cement, and let tfaem remain 
several weeks before using them. 

A. OHEAP AKD DUBABLB GSMSZIT. 

A most valuable and durable cement for the outside oover- 
U3g of wood buildings and fences, may be obtfuned by mixing 
two parts of mfted wood ashes, one of fine sand, and three of 
day ; these being again mixed with oil, and applied to the 
sur&ce of the wood, it is said to be capable of resisting the in- 
clemency of the weather, even better than marble itselC 

BLACK INK. 

Take four ounces of galls, two ounces of copperas, and one 
ounce of gum Arabic. Beat the galls, and put them in a quart 
of warm sofi; water. Soak it eight or nine days in the hot sun, 
or by the fire, shaking it often. Then add the copperas and 
gum, and it will be fit for use in two or three days. The gum 
Arabic must be dissolved in warm water, and a half ounce of 
alum powdered^ added to the whole. 



D01IB8TIC SOONOlCr. 
BEEBWAX. 

To obtain wax, boil the oombs in a strong muslin bag, in a 
sauce pan, with water sufficient to keep the bag from burning, 
and while boiling, continue to press the bag with a wooden 
slice or spoon, to extract the whole, as you skim off the wax. 
Drop the wax into cold water, where it will swim on the sur- 
&ce. The wax thus obtained will still want refining, to efiect 
which, place it in a sauce pan, and melt it over a slow fire. 
Then pour off the dear wax into proper vessels, and let it cool. 

« FENOBS. 

In reply to an inquiry of a correspondent, the editor of the 
Massachusetts Ploughman gives the following interesting facts : 
Boards will last a long while when well supported by posts. 
See the boards of eighty years on old barns and out buildings ! 
Posts last a vast deal longer in wet soils than in dry, sandy 
loams — ^longer in clay than in the richest soil. In peat mead- 
ows the bottoms of posts hold out longer than the tops 
and the rails. On dry soils, posts should be charred, and 
if the owner would be at the trouble of placing a few ashes 
around each post, he would preserve them twice as long as 
without ashes. Lime, also, is good to preserve wood, though 
&rmers sometimes use it to hasten the rotting of compost 
heaps. 

HASD OEMENT FOB SEAMS. 

A very excellent cement for seams in the roofs of houses^ 
or for any other exposed places, is made with white lead, dry 
white sand, and as much oil as will make it into the consist- 
ency of putty. This cement gets as hard as any stone in the 
course of a few weeks. The lead forms a kind of flux with the 
sand ; it is excellent for filling up cracks in exposed parts of 
brick buildings ; it is also a good cement for pointing up the 



MXSCXLLAirxOnB KEOIPEB, 385 

base of chimnejs, where they project through die roo& of 
shingled houses. 

TO CLEAN CHINA. 

China is best cleaned, when very dirty, with finely pow- 
dered fuiler's-earth and warm water. A little dean soil soap 
may be added to the water instead of fiiller'^earth. The same 
is recommended for cleaning glass. 

TO CLEAN PLATE. 

A flannel and soap, and soft water, with proper rubbing, will 
clean plate nicely. It should be wiped dry with a good-sized 
piece of soft leather. Others use a little whiting and sweet 
oil, mixed. 

TO CLEAN OIL PAINTINaS. 

Clean the picture well with a sponge, dipped in warm beer ; 
after it has become perfectly dry, wash it with a solution of 
the finest gum-dragon, dissolved in pure water. Never use 
blue starch, which tarnishes and eats out the coloring ; nor 
white of eggs, which casts a thick varnish over pictures, and 
only mends bad ones by concealing the faults of the coloring. 

ECONOMY IN FUEL. 

A saving of nearly one-third of the coal consumed may be 
made by the fallowing easy means : Let the coal ashes, which 
are usually thrown into the dust bin, be preserved in a comer 
of the coal hole, and make your servants add to them from 
your coal heap an equal part of the small coal or slack, which 
is too small to be retained in the grate, and pour a small quan- 
tity of water upon the mixture. When you make up your 
fire, place a few round coals in front, and throw some of this 
mixture behind; it saves the trouble of sifting your ashes, 
gives a warm and pleasant fire, and a very small part only 
will mnain unburnt. 



836 DOMBsno moovoMJ. 

GOOD VINBGAB. 

To eight gallons of clear rain water add three quarts of mo- 
lasses ; turn the mixture into a clean, tight cask ; shake it well 
two or three times, and add three spoons full of good yeast, 
or two yeast cakes. Place the cask la a warm place, and in 
ten or fifteen days add a sheet of common wra[^iiig paper, 
smeared with molasses, and torn into narrow strips, and you 
will have good vin^ar. The paper is necessary to form the 
"' mother," or*life, of the liquor. 

OIDES TINBOAB. 

The poorest cider will answer for vinegar, in the making of 
which proceed thus : ' First draw off the cider into a cask that 
has had vinegar in it before, if you have such a one ; then put 
into it some of the apples, that have been pressed, or pumice ; 
if placed in the sun, in two weeks it may be drawn away and 
put into another cask, fit for use. 

TO BLACKEN THE FBOITrS OF STONE OHXHNET-PIBOBfl. 

Mix oil-vamish with lamp-blade, and a little spirits of turpen- 
tine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone 
with soap and water, very clean ; then sponge it with clear 
water, and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this 
color, letting it dry between the times. It looks extremely 
well. The lamp-black must be sifted firsts 

TRA.OIKG PAP£B» 

Mix six quarts by weight of the spirits of turpentine, one of 
rosin, and one of boiled nut-oil, and lay this on the paper with 
a brush or sponge. If the Canada balsam is employed as a 
substitute for the rosin, a finer quality of tracing paper is the 
result The paper should be well dried before used. 



lOBCBLLAiniOtTB RKOIPBB. 337 

CEMENT FOB IRON FLUES. 

Common salt and sifted wood -ashes, in equal -parts, made 
into a paste with water, is a very good cement for iron flues, 
and may be applied when the flue is hot or cold. Iron filings 
and vinegar will do almost as well, or rather iron filings moist- 
ened with diluted muriatic add. These are generally used for 
filling up the space between cylinders. 

TO EXTBAOT MABKINa INK. 

The following process will be found easy and eflectual. Take 
the piece of marked linen and immerse it in a solution of 
chloride of lime ; when in a few minutes the characters will 
pass from black to white, owing to a new preparation of silver 
being formed, namely, white chloride of silver, which still re- 
mains in the fabric ; but owing to its solubility in solution of 
ammonia, it may be entirely extracted by immersion in that 
liquid, immediately it is removed out of the first, and allowing 
it to remain in it for a few minutes ; after this, it only re- 
quires to be well rinsed in clean water, which completes the 
process. 

To PREVENT COLD FEET IN BED. 

Draw off your stockings just before undressing, and rub 
your ankles and feet well with your hand, as hard as you can 
bear the pressure, for five or ten minutes, and you will never 
have to complain of cold feet in bed. It is hardly conceivable 
what a pleasurable glow this difllises. Frequent washing of 
the feet, and rubbing them thoroughly dry with a linen doth 
or flannel, is very useful. 

ECONOMICAL TJBE OF NT7TME(}. 

If you grate a nutmeg at the stalk end, it will prove hollow 
throughout ; whereas the same nutmeg, had it been grated from 
the other end, would have proved sound and solid to the last 

O 22 



838 D0MX8TI0 XOOHOMT. 

TO EXnNGmSH A FIBE. 

A solution of five ounces muriate of ammoaia ia one gallon 
of water will easily extinguish a large fire. 

FROST-BITTEN FRUITS AND VEGETABLBB. 

Such fruits and roots as pears, apples, and potatoes, as have 
been penetrated by frosty may be recovered by putting them 
into cold water when a thaw approaches, and letting them re- 
main in the water for some time, till by the plumpness and 
fairness of the fruits and rootb, it appears that the particles of 
frost are extracted. This method has often been tried, and 
fi)und to answer. 

TO PBBYENT TEA-KETTLES OOATINa WIIH LDCE. 

Put the shell of an oyster in the tea-kettle, and the lime will 
adhere to it, instead of coating the sides. 

FURNirUBB POLISH. 

Beeswax half a pound, and a quarter of an ounce of alkanet 
root ; melt together in a pipkin, until the former is well col- 
ored. Then add linseed oil and spirits of turpentine, of each 
half a gill ; strain through a piece of coarse muslin. Another : 
White wax two ounces, oil of turpentine one gill ; melt the 
wax, and gradually mix in the turpentine. 

TO MAKE HARD WATER SOFT. 

Dissolve two tablespoons full of fresh quick-lime in two and 
a quarter gallons of water ; stir it into a barrel of hard water, 
and let it stand sixteen hours to settle. Chalk will be precipi- 
tated to the bottom, and the water will be perfectly sofl and 
fit for use. 

ANOTHER. 

For every hundred gallons take half a pound of the best 
quusk-lima ; make it into a cream by the addition of water ; 



MISCELLINSOUB RBCIPX8. 389 

then difRise it through the hard water in a tank or reservoir, 
and allow the whole to stand ; it will quickly be bright; the 
lime having united with the carbonate of lime, which makes 
the hard water, will be all deposited. This is a most beauti- 
ful application of the art of chemistry. 

HERBS FOB DBYING. 

The best state in which balm, thyme, sage, and other kitchen 
or medidnal herbs can be gathered for drying to preserve for 
winter use, is just as their flowers are opening ; at that period 
of growth they are found to contain more of the essential oil, on 
which their flavors depend, than at any other time. 



TO OLABIFr HONKT. 

Take six pounds of honey, a pound and three-quarters of 
water, two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, five ounces 
of coal, pulverized, washed, and well dried, the whites of three 
eggs, well beaten in three ounces of water for each pound of 
honey ; put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs into a copper 
vessel that will hold about one-third more ; let them boil for 
two minutes; throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and 
continuing the boiling two minutes longer; then take the 
sauce pan from the fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an 
hour, that the liquor may cool ; then take a new sieve — it must 
be well washed or it will impart a disagreeable taste — pass the 
honey through, taking care to filter the first drops twice, as 
they generally carry with them a portion of coal ; the syrup 
which still adheres to the coal and other materials may be sep- 
arated as follows : pour boiling water on them till they no 
longer retain any sweetness ; then put these waters together ; 
set them over a large fire to evaporate, until the syrup only 
remains. 



340 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

TO 6EPASATE WAX FBOM THE OOHB. 

Tie the comb up in a linen or woolen bag ; place it in a 
kettle of cold water, and hang it over the fire. As the water 
heats, the wax melts and rises to the suiface, while all the im- 
purities remain in the bag. It is well to put a few pebbles in 
the bag to keep it from floating. 

TO PSEITENT INK FROIC FBEBZING. 

Instead of water use brandy, and it will never freeze. 

TO MAKE STAm 0ASPET8 LAST. 

Slips of paper should always be placed over the edges of 
the stairs, under the carpet. This will diminish the frictioD 
between the carpet and the boards underneath it The strips 
should be in length within an inch or two of the width of the 
carpet, and four or five inches in breadth, as convenient This 
simple expedient will preserve the carpet half as long again as 
it would last without the strips. 

COLD SOAP. 

Take one gallon of lye^ strong enough to bear up an ^g, to 
every pound of grease. Put the lye into your barrel, and strain 
the grease hot through a sieve or cullender. Stir three or four 
times a day for several days, or until it thickens. By this 
process you have soap clearer, and with much less trouble, 
than in the old way. 

SOAP. 

When preparing to make soap, add a little old soap to the 
lye and grease. This will greatly fecilitate the labor of the 
making. 

TO 6BW NEW AND STIFF OLOTH EASILY. 

Pass a cake of white soap a few times over it, and the needle 
will penetrate easily. 



MIBdCLLAKXOUB BX01PS8. 841 

TO GLEAN XimrBg. 

One of tfad beet substances for deaning knives and forks is 
diarooal, reduced to a fine powder, and applied in the same 
manner as brick dust is used. This is a recent and valuable 
discovery. 

OAUnONS BELATDTR TO THS UBB OF BRASS AND OOPFEB 

OOOKINQ UTBNSHA. 

Cleanness has been aptly styled the cardinal virtue of cooks. 
Food is more healthy, as well as palatable, cooked in a cleanly 
manner. Many lives have been lost in consequence of care- 
lessness in Using brass, copper, and glazed earthen cooking 
utensils. The two first should be thoroughly cleansed with 
salt and hot vinegar before cooking in them, and no oily or 
add substance, after being cooked,, should be allowed to cool 
or remain in any of them. 

TO BSLnCYE THE BREATH FROM ONIONS. 

A few fresh walnuts or raw leaves of parsley, eaten immedi- 
ately after dinner, will speedily remove that disagreeable taint 
which always infects the breath after partaking of onions or 
garlics. 

E88ENOEB. 

An ounce of oil to one pint of alcohol, is about a fair pro- 
portion. Let them be well shaken together. 

BUTTER. 

In churning cream, add a lump of butter to the cream be- 
fore commencing, and the butter will come in two-thirds the 
time it would without 

TO PRBBERYE GAME IN HOT WEATHER. 

Game or poultry may be preserved for a long time, by ty- 
ing a string tight round the neck, so as to «cdude the air, and 
by putting a piece of charooal in the venk 



842 DOMSBTIO ECONOMr. 

SUBSIAN METHOD OF PBBSEBYINO FISH. 

When the Russians desire to keep fish perfectly firesh, to be 
carried a long journey in a hot climate, they dip them into hot 
beeswax, which acts like an air-tight coTering. In this way 
they are taken to Malta, sweet, even in summer. 

BTABCH. 

lliere is no better way for making nice starch for shirt bo- 
soms, than to boil it thoroughly after mixing, adding a little 
fine salt, and a few shavings of a star or spermaceti candle ; 
the star or pressed candle is quite as good as sperm. Let the 
starch boil at least ten minutes, and it will give a gloss if 
neatly ironed, fully satis&ctory to the exquisite taste of a 
dandy. 

WHTTB BATIK. 

Stone blue and flannel will make white satin look nearly 
new, especially if rubbed afterward with crumbs of bread. 

TO CLEAN GOLD OB SILYEB LAOS. 

Rub it gently with cotton wool, or a soft brush dipped in 
spirits of wine, taking care not to injure the silk beneatlL 

TO EEMOVE SUBT FROM FINELY FINIBHSD STEEL. 

Rub the rust with any kind of soft animal &t, and lay the ar- 
ticles by, wrapped in thick paper, for two or three days ; then, 
after cleaning off the grease with a piece of sofl flannel, rub 
the spots well with powdered rotten stone and sweetoil, after 
which the polish may be restored, by rubbing with powdered 
emery, on a soft leather ; and the process may be finished with 
finely-powdered chalft or magnesia. 

BLAOK BALL. 

Melt together, moderately, ten ounces of bayberry tallow, 
five ounces of beeswax, one ounce of mutton tallow. When 



MIBCBLLAHKOUB RBOnPSB. 848 

-melted, add lamp or ivory black to give it a good black color. 
Stir the whole well together, and add, when taken from the fire, 
half a glass of rum. 

CEHENT FOS THE HOUTHB OF OOBKED BOTILES. 

Melt together a quarter of a pound of sealing-wax, the same 
quantity of rosin, a couple of ounces of beeswax. When it 
froths, stir it with a tallow candle. As soon as it melts, dip 
the mouths of the corked bottles into it. This is an excellent 
thing to exclude the air from such things as are injured by be- 
ing exposed to it 

TO PBKTENT MOULD IN BOOKS, PAfiTE, INK, AND LEATHER. 

A few drops of oil of lavender will save a library from 
mould ; a single drop will save a pint of ink ; paste and leath- 
er may also be preserved. A little salt or white wine will 
preserve ink from mould. 

TO DESTROY ANTS. 

It SO happened that a piece of camphor was laid in a drawer 
containing sugar, and which was sadly infested by ants. On 
opening it, a few days afterward, the bottom of the drawer was 
literally strewn with dead ants. The experiment was repeated 
with success — ^a small piece of camphor placed in the corner 
of the drawer being quite suffident. Camphor dissolved in al- 
cohol, and diluted with water, might destroy them, if sprinkled 
on trees or walls, or if poured into their nests. 

ANOTHER. 

As a remedy against ants, procure a large sponge, wash 
it well, press it very dry ; by so doing it will leave the small 
cells open. Lay it on the shelf where they are most trouble- 
some, sprinkle some fine white sugar on the sponge, and two 
or three times a day drop it in scalding water, and you will 



344 B0MB8TI0 BCONOMT. 

slaj them bj the thousand, and soon rid the house of tiboae 
troablesome insects. 

VOB KILLING RATB. 

Mix some unslacked lime with corn-meal, and place it where 
the rats may aoddentally find it They will soon become very 
thirsty, and, upon drinking water, the Ibne slacks and swells 
the rat till it kills him. In the Bahama kles^ sponge is fried 
and placed in their way ^ they eat it, drink, swell, burst, and 
die. Lime and meal should be, of the first one part and meal 
two parts^ well mixed together, and dry. 

TO KEEP BUGS FROM VINES. 

Take the feathers from a hen's wing, and dip them in spirits 
of turpentine, and stick one or two in a hill, and after everj 
shower they will want to be dipped over again. 

SOAP. 

Soap, as well as candles, is improved by keeping. Buy your 
store for the winter as early as September, and cut the large 
bars of soap into pieces, to drj. It goes farther, and is better. 

ISINGLASBy TO OU^IFT. 

Take an ounce and a half of the best isinglass, cut it into pie- 
ces, and wash them in warm water several times ; put the ising- 
lass into a stewpan with five glasses of filtered water, set it on 
the fire, and as soon as it boils set it at the side of the stove so 
as to keep up the boiling ; take off the scum as soon as it rises, 
and when the whole is reduced to three^uarters, strain it 
through a doth into a basin for use. 

IRON SPOTS ON MARBLE. 

To remove iron spots from marble, mix equal quantities of 
^irit of vitriol and lemon juice ; shake it well, wet the spots 



with the mixture, and ia a few mioutes rub with a soft linen, 
until they are completely e&uoed. 

INK 8P0TB. 

As 80on as the accident happens, wet the place with juice of 
sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and the best white haid soap. 
Or the doth may be soaked in sweet milk. 

OFFENSmS SHELLS. 

One of the best and most pleasant disinfectants is cofiee ; 
the simplest way to use it is to pound the well-dried raw beans 
in a mortar and strew the powder over a moderately-heated 
iron plate. The simple traversing of the house with a roaster 
containing freshly roasted coffee will clear it of offensive smells. 

TO PBBBSBYB BGOS. 

Apply with a brush a solution of gum Arabic to the shells, 
or immerse the eggs therein ; let them dry, and afler wards 
pack them in dry charcoal dust ; this prevents their being af^ 
fected by any alterations of temperature. Or, take a stone jar 
or firkin, and put m a layer of salt half an inch deep; insert 
your ^gs on the small end, and cover each layer of eggs with 
salt. If the e^s are fresh when packed, and put into a cool, 
dry place, they will keep perfectly good until the following 
summer. 

Another way is to pack as before, and pour over them melt- 
ed lard. In this they will keep good for a long time. When 
taken out for use, put them in warm water, which will melt 
off the lard, and which may be used again, ad inOnitum. 

TO PEKFUMB LINEN. 

Rose leaves, dried in the shade or at about four feet from a 

stove, one pound ; of cloves, caraway seeds, and allspice, of 

each ooeooDoe; pound in a mortar, or grind in a mill: dried 

O* 



346 ^ DOMEBTIO XOONOMT. 

salt a quarter of a pound; mix all these together, and put the 
compound in little bags^ 

ANOTHER. 

Take doves, cedar, and rhubarb, each one ounce ; pulver- 
ize, and sprinkle it in the chest or drawer. It will cret&te a 
beautiful scent, and prevent moths. 

BATS Ain> MIOB. 

The asphodel is useful in driving away rats and mice, which 
have such an antipathy to this plant that if their holes be stop- 
ped up with it they will rather die than pass where it has been 
placed. 

TO SE8T0BB STALE BEER. 

To about a quart of stale beer put half a teaspoon full of 
salt of wormwood ; this will restore the beer and make it sparkle 
when poured into a glass, like bottled porter. 

RIOEMILK. 

Take some rice— one ounce for each person — wash it well 
in warm water, then put it in boiling milk, and boil it for two 
or three hours over a slow fire, stirring often, adding salt or 
sugar to liking, and cinnamon. 

TO TAKE STAINS OXIT OF SILKS. 

Mix together in a phial two ounces of essence of lemon, and 
one ounce of oil of turpentine. 

Grease and other spots in silks are to be rubbed gently with 
A linen rag dipped in the above composition. 

TO EXTEtAOT GREASE SPOTS FROM SILKS, KUSLINB, ETa 

Scrape French chalk, put it on the grease spot, and hold it 
near the fire, or over a warm iron or water>plate filled with 
boiling water ; the grease will melt^ and the Froich chalk ab- 



MIBOXLLAHXOUS RXOIFK& 347 

sorb it, brush or rub it off; repeat if neoessarj. If jou have 
Dot French chalk, magnesia will efiectually remove grease spots 
from silk, on rubbing it in well ; and, afler standing a while, 
apply a piece of soft brown paper to the wrong side, on which 
press a warm iron gently, and what grease is not absorbed by 
the paper can be removed by washing the spot carefully with 
cold water. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOB KILK OB CBEAM. 

Beat up the whole of a fresh egg in a basin, and then pour 
boiling tea over it gradually, to prevent its curdling ; it is diffi- 
cult firom the taste to distinguish it from rich cream. 

TO TAKE MILK FBOM OBEAM. 

Use a syphon, and draw off the milk from beneath the sur- 
&ce of the cream, and thus completely separate the two liquids 
by the simplest means and with the least possible trouble. 

TO PBESEBYE KILK. 

Put a Spoon full of horseradish into a pan of milk, and it will 
remain sweet for several days, either in the open air or in a 
cellar, while other milk will sour. 

VENTILATION OF HOUSES. 

The great attt^ntion paid to making houses dose and warm, 
though apparently well adapted to the comfort of the inhabi- 
tants, is by no means &vorable to the health, unless care be 
taken every day to admit fresh air by the windows. Some- 
times it may be proper to make use of what is called pumping 
the room, or moving the door backward and forward for some 
minutes together. The practice of making the beds early in 
the day, however it may suit convenience or delicacy, is, doubt- 
less, improper. It would be much better to turn them down, 
and expose them to the influence of the air admitted by the 
windows. 



MS SOKIDITIO BOONOVT. 

For many persons to sleep in one room, as io the ward of a 
hospital, is Tery hurtful to health ; and it is scarcely a less in- 
jurious custom, thoi^h often practiced by tliose who have 
splendid houses, for two or more to sleep in a small apartment, 
eflpecially if it be very closa Flues and opening for vendia* 
tion should always be ^tended to in building. 

ooHFOBrnoir to makb oolobed dbawinqs asd prinib 

BESEMBLE PAUOINOS IN OIL. 

Take of Canada balsam, one ounce ; spirits of turpentine, two 
ounces; mix them together. Before this composition is ap- 
plied, the drawing or print should be sized with a solution of 
isinglass in water, and when dry, apply the yamish with a camel's 
hair brush. 

A YABNISH TO COLOR BASKVrS. 

Take either red, black, or white sealing wax, whichever color 
you wish to make ; to every two ounces of sealing wax, add 
one ounce of spirits of wine ; pound the wax fine, then sift it 
thvou^ a fioe lawn sieve, till you have made it extremely fine : 
put it into a large phial with the spirits of wine, shake it, let it 
stand near the fire forty-eight hours, shaking it oflen ; then, 
with a little, brush the baskets all over with it ; let them dry, 
and do them over a seoood time. 

COURT FLASTEB. 

Bnase a sufficient quantity of fish glue, and let it soak for 
twenty-four hours in a little warm water ; expose it to heat 
over the fire, to dissipate the greater part of the water, and sup- 
ply its place by colorless brandy, which will mix the gelatine 
of the glue. Strain the whole through a piece of open linen ; 
on cooling, it will form a trembling jelly. 

Now extend a piece <^ black nlk gn a wooden frame, and 
fix it in that positloo by means of taoks, or pack thread. Then 
with a brush made of badger's hair, apply the glue, after it ha^ 



maOBLLANSOUfl BS0IPK8.. 349 

been exposed to a gentle heat to render it liquid. When this 
stratum is dry, which will soon be the case, apply a second, 
and then a third, if necessary, to give the plaster a certain thick- 
ness ; as soon as the whole is dry, cover it with two or three 
strata of a strong tinotore of balsam of Peru. * 

This is the real English court plaster ; it is pliable, and never 
breaks, characters which distinguish it from so many other 
preparations sold under the same name. 

TO RENEW OLD BREAD AND OAKE. 

Fill a bread steamer about half full of water, and lay the 
dry bread on it, and set it on the fire, where it will steam the 
bread from half to three-quarters of an hour ; then wrap the 
bread in a towel, and let it remain till dry. In this way, bread 
that is old and dry may be made moist and good. When a steam- 
er cannot be procured, soak the bread in cold water till it has ab- 
sorbed sufficient water to be moist inside — then put it in a bake 
pan, without any cover, and heat it very hot. If broken pieces 
of bread are put in the oven, five or six hours afler baking, and 
rusked, they will keep good a long time. Sour, heavy bread, 
treated in this manner, will make very decent cakes and pud- 
dings, provided there is enough saleratus used in making them 
to correct the acidity of the bread. Rich cake, that has wine 
or brandy in it, will remain good in cold weather several 
months, if it is kept in a cool, dry place. The day in which it 
is to be eaten, put it in a cake pan, and set it in a bake pan 
that has half a pint of water in it oo t on the bake pan cover, 
and let the cake bake till it is heated very hot Let it get 
cold b^re cutting it. 

TO PRESERVE CHEB3E FROM INSECTS. 

Cover the cheesei while whole, with a paste made of wheat 
fk>ur; then wrap a cloth round it, and cover it with the paste. 



850 DOMXSTIO XOOirOlCT. 

Keep the cheese in a cool, dry place. Cheese that has skip- 
pers in it, if kept till cold weather, will be freed from them. 

BLUB INK. 

Dissolve one ounce of gum Arabic in a pint of water. In a 
part of this gum- water grind a small quantity of Prussian blue ; 
you may thus bring it to any depth of color you wish. Indigo 
will answer, though not so nice. 

KBD INK. 

Take of the raspings of Brazil wood a quarter of a pound, 
and infuse them two or three days in vinegar, which should be 
colorless where it can be so procured. Boil the infusion an 
hour over a gentle fire, and afterward filter it, while hot, through 
paper laid in an earthenware cullender. Put it again over the 
fire, and dissolve in it, first half an ounce of gum Arabic, and 
aflerward of alum and white sugar, each half an ounce, dare 
should be taken that the Braal wood be not adulterated with 
the Brasiietto or Campeachy wood. 

INDELIBLE INK. 

To four drachms of lunar caustic in four ounces of water, 
add sixty drops of nut galls made strong by being pulverized 
and steeped in soft water. The mordant which is to be ap- 
plied to the cloth before writing, is composed of one ounce of 
pearlash dissolved m four ounces of water, with a little gum 
Arabic dissolved in it Wet the spot with this, dry and iron 
the cloth, then write. 

HARD SOAP. 

Take eight pounds of soft soap— if you wish it nice, use that 
made of olive oil — boil it two hours with six pounds of common 
salt, and it will make five pounds of hard soap. Add a little 
rosin when you melt it over, and if you wish it nice, scent it 
with fragrant oil 



MISCELLANBOtrS RECIPES. 851 

TO HAXK CALICOES WASH WELL. 

Infuse three gills of salt in four quart8 of boiling water, and 
put the calicoes in while hot, and leave them till cold ; in this 
way the colors are rendered permanent, and will not fade by 
subsequent washing. So says a lady who has frequently made 
the experiment herself. Nothing can be cheaper or quicker 
done. 

FIRE AXD WATER PBOOF CEMENT. 

To half a pint of milk, put an equal quantity of vinegar, in 
order to curdle it ; then separate the curd and the whey, and 
mix the whey with four or five eggs, beating the whole well t(^eth- 
er. When it is well mixed, add a little quicklime through the 
sieve, until it has acquired the consistence of paste. With this 
cement, broken vessels and cracks of all kinds may be mended. 
It dries quickly, and resists the action of the water, as well as 
of a considerable degree of fire. 

TO PREVENT THE SAYAOES OF MOTHS. 

The ravages of the woolen moth may be prevented by the 
use of tobacco, camphor, red pepper, turpentine, and, perhaps, 
the noost agreeable for wearing apparel, a mixture of one ounce 
of cloves, one ounce of rhubarb, and one ounce of cedar sha- 
vings, tied up in a bag, and kept in the box or drawer. If the 
substance be dry, scatter it in the folds of the doth, carpet, blan- 
kets, or furs 'f if liquid, sprinkle it freely in the boxes, or on the 
doth or wrapper, laid over and around it 

THE BED ANT. 

Where they are troublesome, it is said that sage leaves, Greah 
pidced, will keep them away, if scattered in places you wish to 
protect 

TTTILrrY OF NETTLES. 

Steel dipped in the juice of the nettle becomes flexible; lint 
dipped in nettle juice put up the nostril has been known to stay 



853 DOMXSTIO SCONOMT. 

the bleeding of the nose, when other remedies have fitiled ; and 
fourteen or fifteen of the seeds ground into powder and taken 
daily, will cure the swelling in the neck known by the name 
of goitre, without in any way injuring the general system. 

USEFUL ENIFE-BOASD. 

Cover a common knife-board with buff leather on which are 
put emery one part, crocus martis three parts, in very fine pow- 
der, mixed into a thick paste with a little lard or sweet oil, and 
spread on the leather to the thickness of a shilling. This meth- 
od gives a &r superior edge and polisli to the knife than the 
common practice of using brickdust on a board. 

TO PBESEBYE FL0WEB8 IN W ATEB. 

Mix a little carbonate of soda with the water, and it will pre> 
serve the flowers for a fortnight Common saltpetre is also a 
good preservative. 

TO KEEP A STOVB BRIGHT. 

Make a weak alum-water, and mix your British luster with 
it, perhaps two teaspoons full to a gill of alum-water; let the 
stove be cold, brush it with the mixture, then take a dry brush, 
and rub the stove till it is perfectly dry. Should any part, be- 
fore polishing, be so dry as to look gray, moisten it with a wet 
brush, and proceed as before said. Warm water will do, if 
you have no alum. 

TO WHTTEN THE HANDS. 

Take a wineglass full of eau de cologne, and anotlier of lem 
on juice ; then scrape two cakes of brown Windsor soap, or 
the same quantity of pure white soap, to a powder, and mix 
well in a mould. When hard, it will be excellent for whiten- 
ing thehandsb 



MIB0BLLANS0U8 BXCIPS8. 353 

TO BEMOVS MABELS FBOH A TABLB. 

I 

If a whitish mark is left on a table, by carelessly setting on a 
pitcher of boiling water, or a hot dish, pour some lamp oil on 
the spot, and rub it hard with a sofb cloth. Then pour on a lit* 
tie spirits of wine or cologne water, and rub it dry with anoth- 
er doth. The white miark will thus disappear, and the table 
look as well as ever. 

TO CLBAK BBA88 OBNAKBITrB. 

Brass ornaments, that have not been gilt or lacquered, may 
be cleaned, and a very brilliant color given to them, by wash- 
ing them with alum boiled in strong lye, in the proportion of 
an ounce to a pint, and afterward rubbing them with a strong 
tripoli. 

TO MEND OBOCKEBT WABB. 

Wash the vessel gently and thoroughly with soap and wa- 
ter; rinse with soft water, and let it dry without wiping. The 
pieces should then be fitted t(^ether as soon as possible, and 
kept in their places by winding firmly over the bowl or dish a 
strong thread, or a piece of twine ; put the broken article into 
a boiler, an inch or two larger each way, and fill them both 
with sweet, cold, skimmed milk ; set the boiler over the fire, 
and boil for ten or fifteen minutes; take it off, and let it stand 
till quite cold, when the string, or twine, may be cut, and the 
article washed in warm water. 

TO PBTBDT WOOD. 

Wood, it is said, may be petrified by the following process : 

Take equal quantities of gem salt, rock alum, white vinegar, 

calx, and pebble powder. Mix all these ingredients together, 

and there will be an ebullition. When this subsides, throw in 

the wood, or any other porous matter, and let it soak four or ' 

five days, at the end of which time the petrifaction will be 

complete. 

28 



S54 D0MB8TIC BOONOMT. 

TO STOP A LEAK. 

Take yellow soap and beat it up thick with whiting, and 
rub it into the leak ; it will be found to stop it when other 
things have &iled. 

PASTE. 

Take two tablespoons full of flour and stir it into a half pint 
of cold water until the lumps are all brok^ then pour this in- 
to a pint of boiling water, stirring while doing so.; afterward 
let it boil up once or twice, and take off. 

CHEAP LEMON FLAYOB. 

When lemons are plenty procure a quantity, cut them in- 
to thin slices and lay them on plates to dry in the oven ; when 
dry, put them into a tight bag, or dose vessel, in the store- 
room, where they are both handy and agreeable for almost 
anything. 

TO CLEAN KID GLOVES. 

First see that your hands are clean, then put on your gloves, 
and wash them as though you were washing your hands, in a 
basin of turpentine, until quite clean ; hang them up in a warm 
place, or where there is a good current of air, which will carry 
off the smell of the turpentine. This method was brought 
from Paris, and many thousand dollars have been made by it. 

ANOTHER. 

Take a piece of flannel, moisten it with a little milk, rub it 
on a cake of nice hard soap, and then apply it to the soiled 
part of the glove. As soon as you have removed the dirt, rub 
the kid with a dry piece of flannel. Care must be taken not 
to make the glove too wet 

TO WASH WOOLENB. 

To prevent shrinking, all descriptions of woolen goods 
should be washed in very hot water, with soap ; and as soon 



MI8OBLLANKO08 RSCIP8S. 355 

as the article is cleansed, immerse it in cold water ; then let 
it be hung up to be dried. 

A VAENT8H TO PREVENT THE BATS OF THE BUN FROM PA8S- 
XNQ THBOUOH WINDOW OB OTHEB OLA88. 

Pound gum tragacanth into powder, and put it to dissolve 
for twenty-four hours in whites of eggs, well beaten. Lay a 
ooat of this on your glass with a soft brush, and let it dry. 

TO GIVE LUSTER TO SILYEB. 

Dissolve a quantity of alum in water, so as to make pretty 
strong brine, which must be skimmed very carefully; add 
some soap to it, and when you wish to use it, dip a piece of 
linen rag in it, and rub over the plate. 

WASH-LEATHEB UNDBB-WAISTOOATS. 

A waistcoat of this material, worn over flannel, will be found, 
especially in the country, to be very comfortable, and a pre- 
servative against the consequences of sudden exposures in our 
changeable climate. In many cases it will supersede the ne- 
cessity o^ and prove a more efiective barrier against cold, than 
an overcoat. 

GEBMAN BILYEB. 

Few are aware of the poisonous qualities of this compound. 
It is good for a variety of uses, but should never be used for 
spoons or vessels for cooking. It is composed of copper, ar- 
senic, and nickel. It is oxydized by acids, and acts in the stom- 
ach as a slow but sure poison. 

GENUINE WINDSOR BOAP. 

To make this &mous soap for washing the hands, shaving, 
6khj nothing more is necessary than to slice the best white 
soap as thin as possible ; melt it in a stew paa over a slow 



356 D0MK6T10 SCOKOMT. 

fire ; scent it well with oil of caraway, and then pour it into a 
frame or mould, made for that purpose, or a small drawer, 
adapted in size and form to the quantity. When it has stood 
three or four days in a dry situation, cut it into square pieces, 
and it is ready for use. By this simple mode, substituting any 
more favorite scent for that of caraway, all persons may auil 
themselves with a good perfumed soap, at the most trifling 
expense. 

TO BLEACH LINEN. 

Mix common bleaching powder, in the proportion of one 
pound to a gallon of water ; stir it occasionally for three days ; 
let it settle, and pour it off clear. Then make a lye of one 
pound of soda to a gallon of boiling sofl water, in which soak 
the linen for twelve hours, and boil it half an hour ; next, soak 
it in the bleaching liquor, made as above ; and, lastly, wash 'it 
in the usual manner. 

Discolored linen or muslin may be restored, by putting a 
poition of bleaching liquor into the tub wherein the articles are 
soaking. 

TO BESTOBB LINEN THAT HAS LONa BEEN STAINED. 

Rub the stains on each side with wet brown soap. Mix 
some starch to a thick paste with cold water, and spread it 
over the soaped places. Then expose the linen to the sun and 
air ; and, if the stains have not disappeared in three or four 
days, rub off the mixture, and repeat the process with fresh 
soap and starch. Afterward dry it; wet it with cold water, 
and put it in the wash. 

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MAHOGANY. 

Spirits of salts six parts, salts of lemon one part. Mix, 
then drop a little on the stains, and rub them till they dis- 
appear. 



MI80KLLANBOT7B KKCIPK8. 857 

Tit &E3TOBE GOLOBS TAKEN OUT BT ACIDS. 

Sal-volatile or hartshorn will restore colors taken oat bj 
acids. It will not harm the garment 

TO MAKK WBJTEWASB THAT WILL K OT BUB OFP. 

Mix up half a pail full of lime and water, readj to put on 
the wall ; then take one gill of fk>ur and mix it with the wa- 
ter ; then pour on it boiling water sufficient to thicken it ; then 
pour it, while hot, into the whitewash ; stir it all well together, 
and it is ready for use. 

ANOTHBB BXCIPB FOB WHITBWABHINO. 

Take two quarts of newly burnt lime — ^the whitest pieces 
are the best ; put them into a pail or kettle ; pour boiling wa- 
ter on it, and stir it often ; keep adding hot water to keep it 
fluid until nearly done slacking; then take a teacup full of rice, 
and boil it to a jelly ; filter through linen or cotton doth, add- 
ing a part of it first, the remainder while using. But, if you 
wish for yellow wash, take horseradish leaves, half a pail full ; 
boil them as if for greens ; filter, and add the juice to the fore- 
going composition, and it will be a beautiful yellow. 

OUT-HOUSES AND OELLABS. 

If these have not been recently cleansed, have them thor- 
oughly cleaned out and whitewashed. A dirty cellar is an 
abomination, and the fruitful source of many diseases. Let 
all your out-buildings have a thorough overhauling and re- 
pairing. 

OUBLINO FLUID FOB THE HAIB. 

Melt a piece of white beeswax about the size of a filbert 
kernel or a large pea, in one ounce of olive oil ; to this add one 
or two drops of otto of roses, or any other perfume. 



858 DOMBSTxO BCONOMT. 

TO DKIVB AWAY BEDBUGS. 

Take best gum camphor, in lumps as large as a walnut ; 
put each lump in a thin gauze bag, and suspend them to the 
bedcord, or other parts of the bedstead ; renew the camphor 
when it has lost its strength. If there are crevices in the wall 
or joints of the bedstead thej may be filled with a mixture of 
camphor and hard soap. This remedy, when fiiithfully ap- 
plied, has always proved efl^tual. 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 

Ground black pepper and moist sugar, intimately mixed in 
equal quantities, and diluted with milk, placed in saucers, add- 
ing fresh milk, and stirring the mixure as often as necessary. 

TO DRIVE AWAY FLEAS. 

Sprinkle about the bed a few drops of the oil of lavender, 
and the fleas will soon disappear. 

TO POLISH MAHOGANY FURNITURE. 

Rub it with cold« drawn linseed oil, and polish by rubbing 
with a clean, dry doth, after wiping the oil from the furniture. 
Do this once a week, and your mahogany tables will be so 
finely polished that hot water will not injure them. The rea- 
son is this — ^linseed oil hardens when exposed to the air, and 
when it has filled all the pores of the wood, the surface be- 
comes hard and smooth, like glass. 

TO RENDER BOOTS AND SHOES WATER-PROOF. 

Take one pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow wax, two 
ounces of spirits of turpentine, and half an ounce of Burgundy 
pitch ; melt them over a slow fire, and thoroughly incorporate 
them by stirring. Lay this mixture on the new shoes or boots;, 
either in the sun or at some distance firom the fire, with a 



MI60BIXANS0US RXOIPXB. ** 359 

sponge or brush, and repeat the operation as oflen as they 
become dry, until they are fully saturated. The shoes and 
boots thus prepared ought not to be worn until the leather has 
become perfectly dry and elastic. They will then be found 
impervious to moisture, and their durability will be increased. 

TO KILL WEEDS IN OBATEL AND BRICK WALES. 

Keep them moist with brine a week in the spring, and 
three or four days in the &11, and it will prevent their growing. 

TO TEBCPBB BABTHEN WARE. 

When new, and before used for baking, put it in cold wa- 
ter to cover, and heat it gradually until the water boils. It is 
less likely to craok. 

TO CLEAN PAINT THAT IS NOT YABNISHED. 

Take a flannel, and squeeze nearly dry out of warm water, 
and dip in a little whiting ; apply to the paint, and with a lit- 
tle rubbing it will instantly remove grease, smoke, or other 
soil. Wash with warm water, and rub dry with a soft cloth. 
It will not injure the most delicate color, and makes it look as 
well as new ; besides, it preserves the paint much longer than 
if cleaned with soap and water. 

TO BEHOVE LUCE SPOTS. 

Lime spots on woolen clothes may be completely removed 
by strong vin^ar. The vinegar effectually neutralizes the 
lime, but does not generally affect the color of the cloth. 
Dark doth, the color of whidi has been completely destroyed, 
in spots six inches square, has thus had its original color per- 
fectly restored. 



360 * DQUKSTIC KOONOHT. 

TO TAKE OUT FRUIT SPOTS. 

Wet the stain without dipping, and hold the part over a 
lighted brimstone match, at a proper distance. The sulphur- 
ous gas soon causes the spots to disappear. 

TO CLEAN BLACK SILKS. 

To bullock's gall add boiling water sufficient to make it 
warm, and with a clean sponge rub the silk well on both sides ; 
squeeze it well out, and proceed again in like manner. Rinse 
it in spring water, and change the water till perfectly clean ; 
dry in the air, and pin it on a table ; but first dip the sponge 
in glue-water, and rub it on the wrong side ; then dry it be> 
fore the fire. 

TO TAKE MILDKW OUT OF LINEK. 

Rub the mildewed article well with soap ; then scrape upon 
it some fine chalk, letting that be rubbed well into the cloth ; 
lay it on the grass ; as it dries, wet it a little, and the mildew 
will soon disappear. 

TO CLEAN SILKS. 

A quarter of a pound of sofl soap, a teaspoon fhll of brandy, 
and a pint of gin ; mix all well together ; with a sponge or 
flannel spread the mixture on each side of the silk, without 
creasing it Wash it in two or three pails of cold water, and 
iron on the wrong side when rather wet 

TO BEMOYE STAINS FBOH SILKS. 

Stains produced by vinegar, lemon juice, oil of vitriol, or 
other sharp corrosives, may often be removed from silks by 
mixing a little pearlash with soap-lather, and passing the silk 
through them. Spirits of hartshorn will also often restore the 
oolor. 



MXSOSLLANtOUS BKCIFXS. 861 

TO RAISE THE SUKFACB OB PILE OF VELVET WHEN PBIBBBED 

DOWN. 

Warm a smoothing iron moderately, and cover it with a 
wet doth, and hold it under the velvet; the vapor arinng 
from the heated cloth will raiae the pile of the velvety with the 
aasistanoe of a rush whisk. 

TO BEMOVE OBBASE OB OIL PAINT FBOM OLOTH. 

Moisten it with a few drops of concentrated solution of 
subcarbonate of potash ; rub the spot between the fingers, and 
dien wash it with a little warm water. 

ANOTHEB WAT. 

To remove oil paint, rub the cloth with a bit of flannel 
dipped in spirits of wine or turpentine. 

TO STAIN HABP8, VIOLINS, OB ANY OTHEB MUSIOAL 

IN8TBTTMENT. 

A Crimson Slain, Take one pound of ground Brazil and 
boil it in three quarts of water for an hour ; stain it, and add 
half an ounce of cochineal ; boil it again for half an hour gen- 
tly, and it will be fit for use. If you would have it of the scar- 
let tint, boil half an ounce of saffron in a quart of water, and 
pass over the work previous to the red stain. Observe, the 
work must be very dean, and of air-wood or good syca- 
more, without blemish. When varnished it will look very 
rich. 

For a Purple Stain. Take a pound of chip-logwood, to 
which put three quarts of water ; boil it well for an hour ; add 
four ounces of pearlash and two ounces of indigo, pounded, and 
}ou will have a good purple. 

.^lue Stain, Take a pound of oil of vitriol in a glass bot- 
tle, in which put four ounces of indigo, and proceed as before 
directed in dyeing. 

P 



362 DOMKSTIO XOONOICT. 

Oreen Stain, Take three pints of strong vin^^ar, to which 
put four ounces of the best verdigris, ground fine, half an ounce 
of sap-green, and half an ounoe of indigo. 

TO POLISH YASNISHED FTTRNmiBB. 

Take two pounds of tripoli, powdered ; put it in an earthen 
pot, with water to cover ; then take a piece of white flannel ; 
lay it over a piece of cork or rubber, and proceed to polish 
the varnish, always wetting it with the tripoli and water. It. 
will be known when the process is finished, by wiping a part 
of the work with a sponge, and observing whether there is a 
fiiir, even gloss. When this is the case, take a bit of mutton 
suet and fine flour, and clean the work. 

JAPAKBSE CEMENT OK BICE GLUE. 

This cement is made by mixing rice flour intimately with 
cold water, and then gently boiling it ; it is beautifully white, 
and dries almost transparent Papers pasted together by 
means of this cement will sooner separate in their own sub- 
stance than at the joining, which makes it useful in the preparar 
tion of curious paper articles, as teartrays, ladies' dressing-boxes, 
and other articles that require layers of paper to be cemented 
together. 

TO BENDER OLOTH WIND AND BAIN PBOOF. 

Boil two pounds of turpentine and one pound of lithaige 
in powder, and two or three pints of linseed oiL Tlie article 
is to be brushed over and dried in the sun. 

PEBFUMED BAGS FOB DBAWEB8. 

Gut^ slice, and mix well together, m the state of very groan 
powder, the following ingredients: Two ounces of yellow 
■MOidsni two ouDOQS of oorisodflr seeds^ two ounces of orris 



MHOKLLAROnS RBCIPX8. 8C3 

root| two ounces of calamus aromaticus, two ounces of doves, 
two ounces of cinnamon bark, two ounces of dried rose leaves, 
two ounces of lavender flowers, and one pound of oak sha- 
vings. When properly mixed, stuff the above into small linen 
bags, which place in drawers, wardrobes, &c., which are mustj 
or liable to become so. 

TO HAKB TOUGH BEEF TENDER, 

To those who have worn down their teeth in masticating 
poor, old, tough cow bee^ we will saj that carbonate of soda 
will be found a remedy for the evil. Cut your steaks, the 
day before using, into slices about two inches thick ; rub over 
them a small quantity of soda ; wash off next morning ; cut 
it into suitable thickness, and cook to notion. The same pro- 
cess will answer for fowls, legs of mutton, &c Try it, all 
who love delicious, tender dishes of meat. 

TO ESO^lPE VBOM, OB GO INTO A HOUBE ON FIBB. 

Creep or crawl with your&ce near the ground, and although 
the room be full of smoke to sufKx^tion, yet near the floor 
the air is pure, and may be breathed with safety. The best 
escape from upper windows id a knotted rope, but if a leap is 
unavoidable, then a bed should be thrown out first, or beds pre- 
pared for the purpose. 

TO EmNOUISH A HOUSE ON FIBB. 

Shut the doors and windows, throw water on the fire in the 
grate, and then stop up the bottom of the chimney, 

TO PUBIFY WATEB FOB DBINKIN0. 

Filter river water through a sponge, more or less com- 
pressed, instead of stone or sand, by which the water is not 
only rendered more dear, but wholesome. Powder of char- 



864 DOMXSTIO EOONOMT. 

ooal should be added to tihe sponge when the water is foul, oi 
fetid. 

TO PUEIFY SITEB, OR MUDDT WATER. 

Dis£M>lve half an ounce of alum in a pint of warm water, 
and stirring it about in a puncheon of water from the river, all 
the impurities will soon settle to the bottom, and in a day or 
two it will become quite clear. 

TO CLEAN LOOKma-OLASSES. 

Keep, for this purpose, a piece of sponge, a cloth, and a silk 
handlcerchie^ all entirely free from dirt, as the least grit will 
scratch the fine sur&ce of the glass. First, sponge it with a 
little spirits of wine, or gin and water, so as to clean off all 
spots ; then dust over it powder-blue, tied in muslin ; rub it 
lightly and quickly off with a cloth, and finish by rubbing it 
with a silk handkerchief. Be careful not to rub the edges of 
the frames. 

TO PRESERVE GILDING, AND CLEAN IT. 

It is impossible to prevent flies from staining the gilding 
without covering it ; before which, blow oflf the light dust^ and 
pass a feather or clean brush over it, but never touch it with 
water ; then, with strips of paper, or rather gauze, cover the 
frames of yonr glasses^ and do not remove till the flies are 
gone. 

Linen takes off the gilding and deadens its brightness ; it 
should, therefore, never be used for wiping it. 

A good preventive against flies is, to boil three or four leeks 
in a pint of water, and then with a gilding brush wash over 
the glasses and frames with the liquid, and the flies will not go 
near the articles so washed. This will not injure the frames 
in the least Stains or spots may be removed by gently wi- 
ping them with cotton dipped in sweet oil. 



MI80KLLANB0UB RS0IPB8. 3 1)5 

TO CLEAN LAMPS. 

Bronzed lamps should be wiped carefully ; if oU be fre- 
quently spilled over them, it will cause the bronzing to be 
rubbed off sooner than it would disappear by wear. Brass 
lamps are best cleaned with crocus, or rotten stone and sweet 
oil. Lacquered lamps may be washed with soap and water, 
but should not be touched with acid or very strong lye, else 
the lacquer will soon come o£ When lamps are foul inside, 
wash them with potash and water, rinse them well, set them 
before the fire, and be sure they are dry before oil is again put 
into them. 

Lamps will have a less disagreeable smell, i^ before using, 
the cottons be dipped in hot vinegar, and dried. 

To dean ground glass shades, wash the inside carefully with 
weak soap and water, lukewarm, rub them very lightly, and 
dry with a sofl cloth. 

DIBECrnONS FOB GAJELPET8. 

Carpets should be taken up and shook thoroughly, if in con- 
stant use, as often as three or four times in a year, as the dirt 
that collects underneath them wears them out very &st Straw 
kept under carpets, will make them wear much longer, as the 
dirt will sifb through, and keep it from grinding out Carpets 
should be taken up as often as once a year, even if not much 
used, as there is danger of moths getting into them. If there 
is any appearance of moths in carpets when they are taken up, 
sprinkle tobacco or black pepper on the floor before the car- 
pets are put down, and let it remain after they are laid down. 
When the dust is well shaken out of carpets, if there are any 
grease spots on them, grate on potter^s clay very thick, cover 
them with a brown paper, and set on a warm iron. It will be 
necessary to repeat this piocess several times to get out all the 
grease. If the carpets are so much soiled as to require clean- 
ing all over, after the dirt has been shaken out, spread them 



366 DOMBsnc bconomt. 

on a clean floor, and mb on them, with a new broom, pared 
and grated raw potatoes. Let the carpets remain till perfectly 
dry before walking on them. 

TO KEEP SILK. 

Silk articles should not be kept folded in white paper, as the 
chloride of lime used in bleaching the paper, will probably 
impair the color of the silk. Brown or blue paper is better ; 
the yellowish, smooth India paper is best of ^ all. Silks in- 
tended for dresses should not be kept long in the house before 
they are made up, as lying in the folds will have a tendency 
to impair its durability by causing it to cut or splits particu- 
larly if the silk has been thickened by gum. 

Thread lace vails are very easily cut ; satin and velvet be- 
ing soft, are not very easily cut But dresses of velvet should 
not be laid by with any weight above them ; if the nap of a 
thin velvet be laid down, it is not possible to raise it up again. 
Hard silk should never be wrinkled, because the thread is easily 
broken in the crease, and it never can be rectified. The way 
to take the wrinkles out of silk scarfs and handkerchief is, to 
moisten the surface evenly with a sponge and some weak glue, 
and then pin the nik with some toilet pins around the shelves 
on a mattress or feather bed, takmg pains to draw out the silk 
as ti^t as possible. When dry, the wrinkles will have disap- 
peared. The reason of this is obvious to every person* It is 
a nice job to dress light colored silk, and few should try it 
Some silk articles should be moistened with weak glue or gum 
water, and the wrinkles ironed out by a hot flat-iron on the 
wrong side. 

TO SWEEP CABPET8. • 

Before sweeping a carpet, sprinkle over it a few hands full 
of waste tea leaves. A stiff hair broom or brush should be 
used, unless the carpet be very dirty, when a whisk or caipet 



inSOBLLANSOUS BBOIPXB. M7 

broom should be used first, followed by another made of hair 
to take ofT the loose dirt The frequent use of a stiff broom 
soon injures the beauty of the best carpet. An ordinary 
clothes* brush is best adapted to superior carpets. 

OHEAF OARFBTINa. 

Sew together strips of the cheapest cotton cloth, of the size 
of the room, and tack the edges to the floor. Then paper the 
doth as you would the sides of a room, with any sort of room 
paper. After being well dried, give it two coats of varnish, 
and your carpet is finished. It can be washed like carpets, 
without injury, retains its gloss, and, on chambers or sleeping 
rooms, where it will not meet rough usage, will last for two 
years, as good as new. 

TO BEFASTBN THB LOOSE HANDLES OF KSTVEB AND FOBES« 

Make a cement of common brick dust and rosin, melted to- 
gether. Seal engravers understand this recipe. 

NIGHT CHAIS8. 

For the night chair of sick persons, put within the vessel 
half a pound of quick lime, half an ounce of powdered sal- 
ammoniao,and water one pint; this will prevent any disagree' 
able odor. 

TEA. 

M. Laysel, a French chemist, says that he discovered that, 
by grinding tea in the same manner as coffee, before infusion, 
the quantity of exhilirating fluid obtained, is nearly doubled* 
The experiment is worth trying. 

SWAXLOW'S NEST. 

To prevent swallows building under the eaves, or in window 
comers, rub the places with oil or sofl soap. 



868 D0MS8TI0 XOOKOMT. 

BOBAX WASHING BEX3IPE. 

Our method is as follows : To every pound of hard soap, 
add from one-half to three-quarters of an ounce of commoD 
borax, somewhat pulverized, and then put it in the soap cut up 
in thin pieces. Keep them hot — ^but not- boiling — for two 
or three hours, or until the whole is well dissolved, and then 
set aside to oool, when a solid mass will be formed. If the 
vessel is set upon the warm stove at night, the operation will 
be completed in the morning, though we think it better to stir 
the mass before it oools. 

The night before washing, rub the clothes where most soiled, 
with soap, and soak in water till morning. This soap, which 
has been more than doubled in quantity, will go quite as &r, 
bulk for bulk, as the original, thus saving at least one-half. 
The boiling and washing are to be performed in the usual man- 
ner ; but it will be found that the labor of rubbing is dimin- 
ished three-fourths, while the usual caustic or eating effect of 
the soap is greatly lessened ; and the hands will retain a pe- 
culiarly soft and silky feeling, even after a large washing. The 
preparation is adapted to all kinds of fiibrics, colored or uncol- 
ored, including flannels, and it is thought to increase their white- 
ness. By using this preparation, with the previous soaking 
over night, we have had sixteen dozen pieces finished early in 
the forenoon, when, by the old process, it would have been an 
«* all day's job." 

WASSrSO MADE EAST. 

Dissolve half a pound of sal-soda and the same quantity of 
hard soap in half a gallon of boiling water, each separately. 
Pour a little boiling water over a quarter of a pound of quick 
lime. If quick, it will bubble when the water is applied. Boil 
the dissolved lime and soda together fur twenty minutes, and 
then put all into a jar to settle. 

This preparation contains nothing injurious to linen. It has 



laSOXLLAKXOUS BBOIPEfl. 869 

been proved by trial that if the directions are rightly followed, 
it is less destructive than the old method. 

Flannels and colored dothes must not be washed in this 
way, but as usual. 

The night before, the collars and wristbands of shirts, the 
feet of stockings, &c., should be rubbed with soap and set to 
soak. In the morning, pour ten gallons of water into the cop- 
per, and having strained the mixture of lime and soda well, 
taking great care not to disturb the settlings, put it, together 
with the soap, into the water, and make the whole boil before 
putting in the clothes. A plate should be placed at the botr 
tum -of the copper to prevent the clothes from burning. Boil 
each lot of clothes from half an hour to an hour. Then rinse 
them well in cold blue water. When dry, they will be beau- 
tifully white. The same water will do for three lots. Wash 
the finer things first 

After having been used for the dothes, the mixture may be 
employed for deaning silver, brass, or any other kind of metal, 
which should afterward be dried and polished with leather. 
The liquid may also be used for scouring floors, or cleaning 
paint 

TO CLEAN AND BBSTORB THE OOLOB OF HABNX88. 

Having washed off the wet dirt, sponge the harness dean 
and hang it up to dry. Next, brush it with a dry, hard brush, 
and dean the brass ornaments. 

For this purpose, mix a quarter of a pint of turpentine with 
two ounces of rotten stone, two ounces of finely powdered 
charcoal, and a quarter of a pint of droppings of sweet oil ; 
apply this paste with leather, and polish it off with powdered 
charcoal. 

To restore the color of harness, clean it, and brush over it 
the following mixture : Boil half a pound of logwood chips in 

P* M 



370 Domano soovomr. 

diree quarts of soft water, to which add three ounces of galls, 
bruised, and one ounce of alum. 

TO PBOTEOT CHILDBEN FROM BUBNING. 

Add one ounce of alum to the last water used in rinsing 
children's dresses, and they will be rendered uninflammable, or 
so slightly combustible that they would take fire slowly, if at 
all, and would not blaze. 

EXEBOISE AFTEB KBAL8. 

Exercise is hurtful immediately after meals, particularly to 
those of nervous and irritable constitutions, who are thence li- 
able to heart-bum, eructations and vomiting. Indeed, the in- 
stinct of the iuferior animals confirms the propriety of this 
rule ; for they are all inclined to indulge themselves in rest af- 
ter food. At all events, &tiguing exercise should be delayed 
till digestion is performed, which requires three or four hours 
after eating a full meal. 

TO KEEP HOPS FOB FUTUBB USE. 

Hops lose all their fine flavor by exposure to the air and 
damp. They should be kept in a dry, close place, and lightly 
packed. 

VOLATILE SOAP, FOB BEBCOVINO PAINT, QBBASE SPOI^ ETO. 

Four tablespoons fiiU of spirits of hartshorn, four tabl^ 
spoons full of alcohol, and a tablespoon full of salt Shake 
the whole well tc^ether in a bottle, and apply with a sponge 
or brush. 

TO MAKE EZOELLElffT JND WHOLESOME TABLE BEEB. 

To eight quarts of boiling water, put a pound of molasses, 
a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and two bay leaves ; let this 
boil for a quarter of an hour, then cool, and work it with yeaat^ 
the same as other beer. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPEfl. S71 

TO PBEVBNT BEER GROWING FLAT. 

In a cask containing eighteen gallons of beer, becoming 
^pid, put a pint of ground malt, suspended in a bag, and 
dose the bung perfectly ; the beer will be improved during the 
whole time of drawing it for use. 

TO CLEAN BED TICKS. 

Apply Poland starch, by rubbing it on thick with a wet 
doth. Place it in the sun. When dry, rub it in with the 
hands ; repeat it if necessary. The soUed part will be as dean 
as new. 

TO PBEYENT LAMPS SMOKING. 

It is very often difficult to get a good light from a larop^ 
and yet keep it from smoking; but if the wick is first soaked 
in strong vinegar, and then thoroughly dried, this annoyance 
will be prevented. Still, the wick must not be put up too high* 

TO CUBE PORE. 

As soon as the pork becomes cool, let it be cut and sorted. 
The hams, shoulders, and spare-ribs may be reserved ; but all 
the rest, save fragments for sausages, are to be put into bar- 
rels made perfectly sweet and clean. What is to be put 
down in the barrels should be cut into pieces of a size suitable 
for cooking. The bottom of the barrel should be well covered 
with coarse salt ; then a layer of pork, each piece to be rubbed 
with salt, and packed in dose, and well covered with salt; 
then another layer of pork, and so on till the barrd is filled. 
Salt cannot be used too freely. After six or eight days, a 
pickle of salt and cold water is to be made as strong as possible, 
completely covering the meat thus previously salted. This 
will keep for years. 



872 IK>MBSnO BOONOMT. 

TO CUBE HAMS AS PBAOTIOED IN YIBGINIA. 

For one hundred pounds of meat take six pounds of fine 
salt, three pounds of brown sugar, or three pints of molasses, 
and one pound of saltpetre, powdered ; mix all these together ; 
rub each ham over with this mixture, and pack them down in 
a cask or tub, and let them remain so five or six days ; then 
turn, and sprinkle some salt on them slightly, and so let them 
remain five or six days longer ; then add brine or pickle strong 
enough to bear an e^, and let them remain covered with it 
for a month, when they will be fit for the smoke-house. 

TO SALT BEEF. 

Into four gallons of water put one pound and a half of coarse 
brown sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and six pounds of bay 
salt; boil and skim as long as any scum rises. When cold, 
put in the meat, which must be quite covered with pickle ; 
once in two months boil up the pickle again, skimming care- 
fidly. Add in the boiling two ounces of coarse sugar, half a 
pound o£ bay salt, and the same pickle will be good for twelve 
months. It is incomparable for hung bee^ hams, or neats' 
tongues. When you take them out of this pickle, clean, dry, 
and put them in a paper bag, and hang them up in a dry place. 

Pork may be pickled in the same manner. 

AKOTHEB FIOKLE FOB TONOUBB, BEEF, AND HAMS. 

To thi*ee gallons of spring water add six pounds of commoi 
salt, two pounds of bay salt, two pounds of common loaf sugar 
and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil these over a gentle fire, anc 
be careful to take off all the scum as it rises ; when quite cold, 
it will be fit for use. Rub the meat to be cured with fine salt, 
and let it drain for a day or two, in order to free it from the 
blood ; then immerse it in the brine, taking care that every 
part of it shall be covered. Young pork should not remain 



inSCELLAmOUS BXCIPX8. 873 

more than from three to five days in the pickle ; but hams for 
drying may be kept in a fortnight at least ; tongues will be 
ready in rather less time. Beef may remain fn>m one week 
to two, according to its size, and the degree of saltness desired 
for it A little experience will soon teach the exact time re- 
quired for the different kinds of meat. When the pickle has 
been in use for about three months, boil it up again gently, 
and take the scum carefully off. Add to it three pounds of 
common salt, four ounces of sugar, and one of saltpetre ; it 
will remain good for a year or more. 

TO SMOKE HAMS. 

A smoke-house should be well ventilated, and the hams be 
hung at least eight or ten feet above the fire, and the smoke 
given out in moderate quantities, and come fi'om corn-cobs or 
hickory wood. It is important that the hams be kept cool 
and dry through the whole operation. Proper ventilation of 
the smoke-house secures this. If they become moist by im- 
proper venillation, or are placed so near the fire as to be heated, 
their flavor is greatly injured. 

TO KEEP HAMS IN SUMMER. 

Take them early in spring, and pack them in barrels, with 
oats, barley, bran, or any thing of the like, to protect them 
from fiiea, &c., and they will keep good. Another sure 
way is to rub the hams with pulverized nitre ; let them re- 
main in the cellar three days ; smoke a barrel three days, and 
make a pickle of salt and sugar ; put in your hams, and the 
work is done for the year. 

TO REMOVE FLIES. 

Flies and other insects may be kept from attacking meat, 
by dusting it over with pepper, powdered ginger, or any other 



874 DOMKsno xoonoht. 

spioe, or by skewering a piece of paper to it, on which a drop 
of creosote has been poured. The spices may be readily 
washed off with water before dressing the meat 

RULES FOR COLORIKO. 

6XNXRAL DIRBCTIONS. 

The materials should be perfectly dean ; soap should be 
rinsed out in sod water ; the article should be entirely wetted, 
or it will spot ; light colors should be steeped in brass, tin, or 
earthen ; and if set at all, should be set with alum. Dark 
colors should be boiled in iron, and set with copperas. Too 
much copperas rots the thread. 

FOB OOLOSIKa 8KT BLUB. 

Cret the blue composition. It may be found at the druggistX 
or clothier^s, for a shilling an ounce. If the articles are not 
white, the old colors should be all discharged by soap or a strong 
tartaric acid water, then rinse. Twelve or sixteen drops of 
the coiuposition stirred into a quart bowl of soft, warm water, 
and strained, if settlings are seen, will dye a great many arti- 
cles. If you want a deeper color, add a few drops more of the 
composition. If you wish to color cotton goods, put in pounded 
chalk to destroy the acid, which is very destructive to all cot- 
ton. Let it stand until the eServescence subsides, and then it 
may be safely used for cotton as well as silk. 

FOB LILAC OOLOB. 

Take a little pinch of archil, and put some boiling hot war 
ter upon it ; add to it a very little lump of pearlaah. Shades 
may be altered by pearlash, common salt, or wine. 

TO OOLOB BLAOK. 

Logwood and cider, boiled together in iron^-«dd water for 
the evaporation — ^makes a good and durable black. Busty 



MISOXLLANXOUB RBCirSS. 875 

tiailS) or any bits of rusty iron, boiled ia vinegar, with a small 
piece of copperas, will also dye blaclc ; so will ink-powder, if 
boiled with vinegar. In all cases, black must be set with 
oopperaSi 

LEMON OOLOB. 

Peadi leaves, bark scraped from the barberry bush, saffron, 
dsa, steeped in water, and set with alum, will color a bright 
lemon ; drop in a litde gum Arabic to make the articles sti£ 

BOTAX. PUBPLE. 

Soak logwood chips in soft water until the strength is out ; 
then add alum, a teaspoon full to a quart of the liquor. If 
this is not bright enough, add more alum. Rinse, and dry. 
When the dye is exhausted, it will color a fine lilac. 

8LATB OOLOB. 

Tea grounds, boiled in iron vessels, set with copperas, makes 
a good slate color. To produce a light slate color, boil white 
maple bark in dear water, with a little alum. The bark 
should be boiled in brass utensils. The goods should be boiled 
In it) and thai hung where they will drain and dry. 

so ABLET. 

Dip the cloth in a solution of alkaline or metallic salt, then 
in a cochineal dye, and let it remain some time, and it will 
come out permanently colored. Another method : Half a 
pound of madder, half an ounce of cream tartar, one ounce of 
marine acid, to a pound of doth. Put it all together, and 
bring the dye to a scalding heat. Put in your materials, and 
they will be colored in ten minutes. The dye must be only 
scalding hot Binse your goods in cold water as soon as they 
oome from the dye. 



876 D0MB8TI0 XOONOMT. 

TO COLOR ▲ BRIGHT KADDER. 

For one pound of yam or cloth, take three ounces of mad- 
der, three ounces of alum, one ounce of cream tartar. Pre- 
pare a brass kettle with two gallons of water, and bring the 
liquor to a steady heat Then add your alum and tartar, and 
bring it to a boil. Put in your cloth, and boil it two hours ; 
take it out, and rinse it in cold water. Empty your kettle, 
and fill it with as much water as before ; then add your mad- 
der ; rub it in fine in the water before your cloth is in. When 
your dye is as warm as you can bear your hand in, then put 
in your cloth, and let it lie one hour, and keep a steady heat ; 
keep it in motion constantly ; then bring it to a boil fiteen min- 
utes ; then air, and rinse it If your goods are new, use four 
ounces of madder to a pound. 

TO COLOR GREEN. 

If you wish to color green, have your cloth as free as possi- 
ble from the old color, clean, and rinsed; and, in the first 
place, color it deep yellow. Fustic boiled in soft water, 
makes the strongest and brightest yellow dye; but saffron, 
barberry bush, peach leaves, or onion skins, will answer pretty 
well. Next take a bowl full of strong yellow dye, and pour 
in a great spoon full or more of the blue composition. Stir it 
up well with a clean stick, and dip the articles you have al- 
ready colored yellow into it, and they will take a lively, grass 
green. This is a good plan for old bombazet curtains, dessert 
doths, old flannel for desk coverings, dsc. 

STRAW COLOR AND YELLOW. 

Saffron, steeped in earthen, and strained, colors a fine straw 
color. It makes a delicate or deep shade, according to the 
strength of the tea. The dry outside skins of onions, steeped 
in scalding water, and strained, color a yellow very much like 
the " bird of paradise " color. Peach leaves, or bark scraped 



MI8CSLLANE0U8 RSCIPBS. 8T7 

from the barberrj bush, color a common bright yellow. In 
all these cases, a little bit of alum does no harm, and may 
help to fix the color. Ribbons, gauze handkerchiefs, &c, are 
colored well in this way, especially if they be stiffened by a 
bit of gum Arabic, dropped in while the stuff is steeping. 

NANKIN OOLOS. 

The simplest way is to take a pail full of lye, to which put 
a piece of copperas half as big as a hen's egg. Boil in a cop* 
per or tin kettle. 

TO HAKB B06E OOLOB. 

Balm blossoms, steeped in water, color a pretty rose color. 
This answers very well for the linings of children's bonnets, 
for ribbons, &c 

TO DYE STRAW AND CHIP BONNETS BLACK. 

Boil them in strong logwood liquor three or four hours, oc- 
casionally adding green copperas, and taking the bonnets out 
to cool in the air, and this must be continued for some hours. 
Let the bonnets remain in the liquor all night, and the next 
morning take them out, dry them in the air, and brush them 
with a soft brush. Lastly, rub them inside and out with a 
sponge, moistened with oil, and then send them to be blocked. 

TO DTK WHTTB GLOYBS A BBATJTIFUL PURPLE. 

Boil four ounces of logwood, and two ounces of roche-alura, 
in three pints of soil water, till half wasted. Let it stand to 
be cold after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; 
then do them over with a brush, and when dry repeat it. 
Twice is sufficient, unless the color is to be very dark. When 
dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the 
white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. 
The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar, 
before they are washed, will take it o£ 



878 DOMsano BOOHOirr. 

TO BLEACH STRAW HATS, ETO. 

Straw hatB and bonnets are bleached by putting them, pre- 
viously washed in pure water, in a box with burning sulphur ; 
the fumes which arise unite with the water on the bonnets, and 
the sulphurous add thus formed, bleaches thenu 



CHAPTER XXVn. 
THE ORCHARD, GARDEN, ETC. 

TO PBUmS OBOH ARD TBEBB. 

Thx object in pnining young trees, is to form a proper head. 
The shoots may be pruned in proportion to their lengths, cut- 
ting dean away such as cross one another, and fanning the tree 
out toward the extremities on all sides; thereby keeping it 
equally poised, and fit to resist the efl^ts of high winds. 
When it is wished to throw a young tree into a bearing state, 
which should not be thought o^ however, sooner than the third 
or fourth year after planting, the leading branches should be 
yery little shortened, and the lower or side branches not at all, 
nor should the knife be used, unless to cut out such shoots as 
cross one another. 

The season for pruning orchards is generally winter or early 
in spring. A weak tree ought to be pruned directly at the fidl 
of the leaf. To prune in autumn strengthens a jdant, and will 
bring the blossom buds more forward ; to cut the wood late 
In the spring tends to check a plant, and is one of the remedies 
for ezoessive luxuriance. 

TO FSEVENT GUMMING IN FBUIT TEUSED8. 

To prevent gumming, or the spontaneous exudation of gum 
firora the trunks of fruit trees, which injures, to a considerable 
extent, the growth and strength of the tree, take of horse 
dung any quantity, mix it well up with a quantity of clay 
and a little sand, so as to make a composition ; then add a 
quantity of pitch tar (what is put upon cart wheels,) and 
form a wettish composition of the whole. The fruit trees 



380 DOMXSTIC XOOKOMT. 

in the spring of the year, after they are deaned and tied up, are 
to have their trunks and stems completely bedaubed or oov 
ered with this mixture. 

TO DBSTROY INSECTS ON PLANTS. 

Tie up some flour of sulphur in a pieoe of muslin or fine 
linen, and with this the leaves of young shoots of plants should 
be dusted, or it may be thrown on them by means of a com- 
mon swan's-down puff, or even by a dredging-box. 

Fresh assurances have repeatedly been received of the pow- 
erful influence of sulphur against the whole tribe of insects and 
worms which infest and prey on vegetables. Sulphur has also 
been found to promote the health of plants, on which it was 
sprinkled ; and that peach trees in particular were remarkably 
improved by it, and seemed to absorb it It has been like- 
wise observed, that the verdure, and other healthful i^pearan- 
ces, were perceptibly increased ; for the quantity of new shoots 
and leaves formed subsequently to the operation, and having 
DO sulphur on their surface, served as a kind of comparative 
index, and pointed out distmcUy the accumulation of health. 

TO SENOYATB OLD APPLE TREES. 

Take fresh made lime from the kiln, slake it well with wa- 
ter, and well dress the tree with a brush, and the insects and 
moss will be completely destroyed, the outer rind &11 aS, and 
a new, smooth, clear, healthy one formed, and the tree assume 
ft most healthy appearance and produce the finest fiuiL 

TO PSESEBYE BOOTS. 

These are preserved in difierent ways, according to the ob 

' ject in view. Tuberous roots, as those of the dahlia, psonia, 

tuberose, ^^, intended to be planted in the succeeding spring, 

are preserved through the winter in dry earth, in a temperature 

ratber under than above what is natural to them. So may the 



THB ORCHARD, QARDSN, STO. 881 

Dulbous roots of oommeroe, as hyacinths, tulips, onions, &c., 
but for convenience, these are kept either loose, in cool dry 
shelves or lofls, or the finer sorts in papers, till the season of 
planting. 

TO CULTIVATB OOMHON QABDEN BHUBABB. 

It is not eaough to give it depth of good soil, but it must be 
watered in drought ; and in winter must be well covered with 
straw or dung. If this be attended to, your rhubarb will be 
solid when taken out of the ground, and your kitchen, if a warm 
one, when cut Into large pieces, will soon fit it for use. 

TO HIYE BEEB. 

Bee keepers should have spare hives by them prepared to 
hive the bees as soon as they are settled ; for should the sun 
shine hot upon the swarm it may take another flight, and may 
possibly be lost entirely. The manner of hiving them must 
be regulated by the nature of the place on which they settle. 
The custom of preparing hives varies ; a dean new hive only 
requires the loose straw to be rubbed off with a cloth ; if any 
dressing be used, fennel, dipped in ale and sugar, will best an- 
swer the purp6s6. Have ready a doth whereon to place the 
hive, and a wedge to raise it ; if the swarm should settle on a 
branch, shake the best part of it into the hive, place it on the 
doth on the ground, and continue to disturb the swarm where 
it settled, and the hive being left underneath, they will all go 
in; or cut the branch oS^ and gently place it in the hive. 
Should the bees settle on the ground, place the hive over them ; 
and though bees are not apt to sting at this tame, the hiving 
should be performed quietly. Avoid talking and breathing on 
them, and if any of them are crushed, they will resent it ; there- 
fore, to prevent accident, invariably use the bee-dress, which 
will give confidence. All swarms are to be sheltered and left 
near to where they settle till the evening ; thence to be removed 
very gently to the appointed place. 



882 DOMSSTIO BOONOMT. 

TO HAKE HBN8 LAY PERPETUALLT. 

Give your hens half an ounce of fresh meat, chopped fine, 
once a.day, while the ground is frozen, and they cannot get 
worms or insects ; allow no cocks to run with them, and thej 
will lay without cessation. Try it Hiey also require plenty 
of grain, water, gravel, and lime. 

FOB FATTENING HENS. 

The following is from the Maine Farmer : Shut up your 
hens where there Is no gravel. Keep com by them all the 
time, and also give them dough once a day. For drink give 
them skim milk. With this feed they will fatt^i in ten days. 
If kept over ten days they should have some gravel, or tbej 
will fall away. 

TO DESTBOT THE BEE MUXEB. 

The Boston Farmer's Journal says, to a pint of water, sweet 
ened with honey or sugar, add half a gill of vinegar, and set it 
in an open vessel on the top or by the side of the hive. When 
the miller comes In the night, he will fly into the mixture and 
be drowned. 

TO PBE8EBYE BEES FBOM W0BM8 AND IN6BCIB. 

About the first of May raise the hive up, and strew some 
fine salt under the edges. 

WASH FOB FBUrr TBEES. 

Take equal parts, by measure, of ground plaster of Paris, 
soft soap, and green cow-dung ; dilute them with water to the 
consistency of common whitewash ; and apply the mixture to 
the trunks and large branches of the trees with a mop or brush. 
This will not only have a tendency to destroy or ward off in- 
jects but render the trees more healthy and fruitful. 



THS OBOHAKD, OABDXK, KTO. 888 

TO DE8TB0T GATSBPILLABS ON TREES. 

Take a diaiing-dish with lighted diarcoal, and, after throw- 
ing some pinches of brimstone in powder on the coals, hold it 
under the branches that are loaded with caterpillars. The va- 
por of the sulphur, which is mortal to these insects, will not 
only kill all that are on the tree, but it will also prevent it from 
being infested with them afterward. A pound of sulphur will 
clear a great extent of groimd. Torches are apt to injure the 
trees. Firing sand into the nests with a gun is a long process, 
and not sure. 

TO PBBSEBYB FLOWEB BEEDB. 

Those who are curious about saving flower seeds must at- 
tend to them in the month of August Many kinds will begin 
to ripen apace, and should be carefully sticked and supported, 
to prevent them from being shaken by high winds, and so part- 
ly lost Others should be defended from much wet ; such as 
asters, marigolds, and generally those of the class Syngenesia; 
as from the construction of their fk)wer8 they are apt to rot, 
and the seeds to mould, in bad seasons. Whenever they are 
thought ripe, or indeed any others, in wet weather, they should 
be removed to an airy shed or loft, gradually dried, and rubbed 
or beat out at convenience. 

TO KEEP GRAPES. 

Gather the grapes in the afternoon of a dry day, before they 
are perfectly ripe. Have ready a clean dry barrel and wheat 
bran. Proceed then with alternate layers of bran and grapes, 
till the barrel is full, taking care that the grapes do not touch 
each other, and to let the last layer be of bran ; then close the 
barrel, so that the air may not be able to penetrate, which is 
an essential point Grapes, thus packed, will keep nine or even 
twelve months. To restore them to their freshness, cut the 
end of the stalk of each bunoh of grapes, and put that of whits 



384 DOMBBTIO KCONOMT. 

grapes into white wine, and that of the black grapes into red 
wine, as you would put flowers into water, to revive or keep 
them fresh. 

TO PBESEBYB PBA0HE8. 

If you wish to preserve peaches in their own juioe, have tin 
cans made to hold one or two quarts, with a hole m^one end to 
receive the fruit Pare and stone the peaches ; put them in a 
pot and bring them to a boiling heat ; then put them in the 
cans, and solder on the cap. Set the cans in a pot of boiling 
water and let them remain two or three minutes, then solder 
up the opening, and they are done. I have now peaches (April 
29) in good order, and which taste as fresh as when they were 
first taken from the trees. Glass or stone vessels are preferable. 

TO KEEP OBANBEBBIBB. 

Gather them when quite dry, cork, them closely in dry bot- 
tles, and place in a cool, dry cellar. They will also keep in 
bottles or in casks of water, the latter being the mode practiced 
in the north of Europe and in this country, and in which it is 
a»ent a long distance, without injury ; the fruit is put in a per- 
fect state into tight barrels, filled with water, and headed up. 

TO PBfiSEBVE OABBOTB, PABSNIP8, AND BEETS, ALL WmTEE. 

A little before the frt>8t sets in, draw your beets or pars- 
nips out of the ground, and lay them in the house, bury- 
ing their roots in sand to the neck of the plant, and ranging 
them one by another in a shelving position ; then another bed 
of sand, and another of beets, and continue this order to the 
test. By pursuing* this method, they will keep very fresh. 
When they are wanted for use, draw them as they stand, not 
>ut of the middle or sides. 



THE ORCHARD, GARDEN, XTO. 885 

TO PBE8E&TS SEEDS OF PLANTS IN A STATE ITT FOB 

yBQETATION. 

Seeds of pliints may be preserved, for many montihs at least, 
by causing them to be packed, either in husks, pods, dsa, in 
absorbent paper, with raisins or brown moist sugar ; or, a good 
way, practiced by gardeners, is to wrap the seed in brown pa- 
per, pasted down, and then varnished over. 

TO DB8TBOT MOSS ON TREES. 

Remove it with a hard scrubbing-brush, in February and 
March, and wash the trees with cow-dung, urine, and soap-suds. 

TO DRIVE BUGS FROK VINES. 

The ravages of the yeilow-striped bug on cucumbers and 
melons may be effectually prevented by sifting charcoal dust 
over the plants ; if repeated three or four times, the plants will 
be entirely freed from annoyance. Another method is to cul« 
tivate one or two plants of tomato in the center of each hill, 
which may be removed when the vines have outgrown the bug. 
A few spears of tansey is also recommended. 

TO KEEP ROSE BUGS FROK GRAPE-VINES. 

David Cole, of Watervliet, says that he has found air-slacked 
lime, scattered on grape-vines, when the dew is on, an effectual 
preventive of the attacks of the rose-bug. It will even make 
the insects leave the vines, if they have already attacked them. 
Perhaps ashes and plaster would answer the same purpose. 

TO INCREASE THE QUANTITY OF OREAM. 

Have ready two pans in boiling water ; and on the new 

milk coming to the dairy, take the hot pans out of the water 

put the milk into one of them, and cover it with the other 

This will occasion great augmentation in the thickness and 

quality of the cream. 

O 25 



880 pomsTio scoFoifT. 

MILDEW ON GOOSEBERKTKS. 

The Farmer's Gazi'tte suites that the mildew is prevented 
by sprinkling fine siilt anuind the bushes; or, where it cjin lie 
had, by placing seaweed around them. Walering with s<iap- 
suds, before the fruit forms, and using compost for manure, is 
also good. 

TO KEEP APPLES FRESH A TEAR. 

Dry sand ; and dry your barrel. Put in a layer of apples, 
and a layer of sand, and so on until full ; cover it tight, and 
keep where they will not freeze in winter. They will be fair, 
and line-flavored the next summer. 



CHAPTER XXVIIL 
MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 

CAUTIONS IN VISITING SICK ROOMS. 

Never venture into a sick room in a violent perspiration, (if 
circumstances require a continuance there for any time,) for 
the moment the body becomes cold, it is in a state likely to ab- 
sorb the infection, and receive the disease. Nor visit a sick 
person (especially if the complaint be of a contagious nature) 
-with an empty stomach; as this disposes the system more 
readily to receive the infection. In attending a sick person, 
stand where the air passes from the door or window to the 
bed of the diseased, not betwixt the diseased person and any 
fire that is in the room, as the heat of the fire will draw the 
Infectious vapor in that direction, and much danger would 
arise from breathing in it 

FOR CHILDREN TROUBLED WITH WORMS. 

Take the leaves of sage, powdered fine and mixed with a 
little honey, a teaspoon full for a dose ; or flour of sulphur 
mixed with honey, is good for worms. Sweetened milk, with a 
little alum added to it, is good to turn worms. 

FOR FrrS CAUSED BY WORMS. 

Take cream sweetened with molasses, and pour it down the 
throat of the child ; it will immediately give relief and turn 
the* worms. 

FOUL TEETH. 

The teeth sometimes become yellow or black without any 
adveatitioua master being observed on them ; at other time« 



388 DOMX8TI0 BCONOMT. 

they become foul, and give a taint to the breath, in oonaequence 
of the natural mucus of the mouth, or part of the food remain* 
ing too long about them. The most frequent cause of foul 
teeth is the substance called tartar, which seems to be a depo* 
sition from the saliva, and with which the teeth are often al- 
most entirely encrusted. When this substance is allowed to 
remain, it insinuates itself between the gums and the teeth, and 
then gets down upon the jaw in such a manner as to loosen the 
teeth. This, indeed, is by €blt the most common cause of 
loose teeth ; and when they have been long covered with this 
or with any other matter, it is seldom they can be cleaned 
without the assistance of instruments. But when once they are 
cleaned, they may generally be kept so, by rubbing them with 
a thin piece of soft wood made into a kind of brush, and dipped 
into distilled vinegar ; after whidb the mouth b to be washed 
with common water. 

TO CLEAN TEETH. 

Take of good soft water, one quart ; juice of lemon, two 
ounces; bumtalum, six grains; common salt, six grains. Mix. 
Boil them a minute in a cup, then strain and bottle for use ; 
rub the teeth with a small bit of sponge tied to a stick, once a 
week. 

TO MAKE THE TEETH WHITE. 

A mixture of honey with the purest charcoal will prove an 
admirable cleanser. 

WAfiD 8 PASTE FOB THE PILES. 

Pulverize finely, in an iron mortar, one ounce of black pep- 
per, one ounce of elecampane-root, and three ounces of fennel 
seed, and mix them intimately together. Now melt together, 
over a clear 6re, two ounces of sugar and two ounces of clari- 
fied honey, so as to form a clear syrup, which add to the mixed 
powder in the mortar, and beat the whole into a mass of 



MSDICIKAL BS0IPB8, XTC. 389 

uniform consistence. This medicine is to be taken, when the 
irritation of piles runs so high as to threaten fistula. The dose 
is a piece of the size of a nutmeg, to be taken three times a 
day ; this is to be washed down by a glass of cold water, or 
white wine. 

0ATAPLA8M TO HA8TBN BCJPPUBATIOK. 

Make two parts of finely-powdered bran, and one part of 
linseed meal, into a poultice, with boiling water. A little oil 
should be spread over the sur&oe, just before it is applied. 

AKOTHEB. 

Take of crumb of bread and linseed oil, equal parts. Make 
them into a poultice with boiling milk. 

TO FBETENT GOLDS IN OHILDSEN. 

The best preventive of colds in children is to dress them 
warm, and give them exercise daily in the open air, and wash 
them thoroughly every day in cold water, if they are strong 
enough to bear it ; if not, add a little warm water, and rub the 
skin dry. This keeps the pores open. If they do take cold, 
give them a warm bath as soon as possible ; if that is not 
convenient, bathe the feet and hands, and wash the body all 
over in warm water, then give a cup of warm tea, and cover 
the patient in bed. Avoid exposure the following day. 

A SIMPLE CUBS FOR THE OBOUP. 

The Journal of Health says, when a child is taken with croup, 
instantly apply cold water, ice water, if possible, suddenly and 
freely to the neck and chest with a sponge. The breathing 
will almost instantly be relieved. So soon as possible, let the 
sufferer drink as much as it can ; then wipe it dry, cover it 
warm, and soon a quiet slumber will relieve all anxiety. 



390 DOMBBflO KCONOMT. 

SOBB THROAT. 

Take a glass of olive oil, and half a glass of spirits of turpentine, 
mix them t(^ether, and rub the throat externally, wearing 
flannel round it at the same time. It should be applied in the 
early stages of the disease to insure entire suooess. Sweet oil 
will answer equally well. 



OOUOH 8TBUP8. 

Take Iceland moss two ounoes, four poppy heads, four ta- 
blespoons full of barley, put in three pints of water ; boil it 
down to two, and strain it. Add one pound of sugar. Dose, 
a tablespoon full whenever the cough is troublesome. An- 
other : boil down thoroughwort to a thick syrup, and sweeten 
with molasses. This cures when other remedies fiiil. 



FOB A OOUOH. 

Roast a large lemon very carefully, without burning it; 
when it is thoroughly hot, cut and squeeze it into a cup, upon 
three ounces of sugar, finely powdered. Take a spoon full 
whenever your tough troubles yon. It is as good as it is 
agreeable to the taste. Barely has it been known to fail of 
giving relie£ 

AKOTHEB. 

The editor of the Baltimore Farmer and Gardener says, 
that the best remedy he ever tried in his family for a cough 
or cold, b a decoction of the leaves of the pine tree, sweetened 
with loaf sugar, to be drank warm, and freely, when going to 
bed at night, and cold throughout the day. In some sections 
of the country the pine tree may be found, where the lemon 
cannot be had. It is a cheap remedy, and cannot possibly do 
injury. Try it, therefore. 



mcdicxital rkcifb8, ita 391 

children's coughs. 

A few teaspoons full of warm treacle taken occasionally, and 
particularly at bed time, or when the cough is troublesome, 
will be found beneficial, especially for infants and children. 

TO PREVENT THE SPREADING OF CONTAGION. 

It cannot be too widely known, that nitrous acid possesses 
the properties of destroying the contagion of typhus fevers, and 
other malignant diseases. By the following simple process 
the gas may be prcK'ured with but little expense and trouble. 
Place a little »iit[>etre on a saucer, and pour on it as much oil 
of vitriol as will just cover it ; a copious dl^'harge of acid gas 
will instantly take place. The quantity may be regulated by 
the ingredients. This is very important in preserving health, 
and preventing the spread of contagion. 

VOLATILE LINIMENT. 

This is a valuable preparation, to be rubbed on the skin as 
an external stimulant in sore throats, rheumatism, spiisms, and 
kindred pains. After rubbing it well in, which should be con- 
tinued for twenty minutes to half an hour, flannel should be 
wrapped around the afflicted part. Volatile liniment is made 
by mixing equal quantities of spirits of hartshorn and sweet 
oil ; by adding to this mixture a teaspoon or two full of laud- 
anum, the preparation will be much improved in its efficacy 
in relieving pain. 

TO CURE A WEN. 

Wash it with common salt, dissolved in water, every day, 
and It will be removed in a short time. Or, m.ike a strong 
brisie of altirn salt ; feiiiimer it over the fire. When thus pre- 
pared, wet a piece of cloth in it every day, and apply it con- 
stantly for one month, and the protuberanoe will disappear^ 



893 IX>MK8TI0 XCOKOMT. 

TBBATSCENT OF THE MEASLES. 

The principal point in this disorder, is to keep the emption 
out upon the surface of the body. Let the feet of the patient 
be immersed two or three times a day io wann water, drink- 
ing freely of thoroughwort tea, and taking care to be well 
wrapped up, so as to produce perspiration. Safllron is very 
valuable ; let this and thoroughwort tea be the only drink. 
Mustard poultices applied to the feet are very useful. Let 
the bowels be kept gently open. Avcnd taking oold. 

TO PBEVENT HAIB FROM FALUNO OUT. 

m 

Make a strong decoction c^ white oak bark in water, and 
use it freely. It is best to make but little at a time, and have 
it fresh at least once a Ibrtnight 

BTASCH ENJEOnON. 

Take of the jelly of starch four ounces, and linseed oil half 
an ounce. Mix them over a gentle heat, and add forty drops 
of tincture of opium. To be used in alvine fkixes, to allay 
the irritation which occasions constant tenesmus. 

WHITE BEAN POULTIOB. 

Nothing IS so good to take down swellings aaa soft poul- 
tice of stewed white beans, put on in a thin muslin bag, and 
renewed every hour or two. 

A BIMFLB OnSE FOE DTSENTEBT. 

Take some butter off the chum, immediately after being 
churned, just as it is, without being salted or washed ; darify it 
over the fire lilce honey. Skim off all the milky particles when 
melted over a dear fire. Let the patient (if an adult,) take 
two tablespoons full of the clarified remainder, twice or thrice 
within the day. This has never &iled to effect a cure, and in 
many cases it has been almost instantaneous. 



MEDICINAL BBCIPK8, XTO. 89S 

AlSf EAST INDIAN PBESOBIPnON FOB SUHHEB COMPLAINTS. 

A wine glass of port wine in a cup of black tea, with sugar 
if you wish, but no cream. This has proved very efiectuaL 

TO CUBE A FELON. 

A felon generally appears on the end of the fingers and 
thumbs; it is extremely painful for weeks and sometimes 
months, and, in most cases, cripples or disfigures the finger or 
thumb that falls a victim to it. But it can be easily cured if 
attended to in time. As soon as the pain is felt, take the thin 
white skin of an egg, which is found inside of the shell ; put it 
round the end of the finger or thumb affected, and keep it there 
until the pain subsides. As soon as the skin becomes dry it will 
be very painful, and likely to continue for half an hour or more, 
but be not alarmed. If it grows painful, bear it ; it will be of 
short duration, compared to what the disease would be. A 
cure will be certain. 

CUBE FOB HEADACHES. 

Make a mixture of two parts of ice and one part of salt, and 
apply it by means of a little purse of silk gauze, with a rim of 
gutta percha, to limited spots on the forehead or other parts of 
the scalp, where rheumatic headache is felt The skin is sub- 
jected to the process from half a minute to one and a half 
minutes, and it is rendered hard and white. 

COLDS. 

A daily exposure to the outward air is absolutely necessary 
to secure us against the injurious influence of our variable cli- 
mate. For cure of catarrh, reduoe the amount of food, take 
exercise, keep the bowels open, and bathe the feet in warm wa- 
ter at bed time. 

0* 



394 DoicEsnc ecokomt. 

FOB A COLD IN THE HEAD. 

What is called a head-bath is useful. Fill a wash-hand ba- 
sin with boiling water, and add an ounce of flour of mustard ; 
then hold the head, covered with a doth to prevent the escape 
of the steam, over the basin as long as any steam arises. 

BAGS TEA. 

Night sweats have been cured, when more powerful reme- 
dies have failed, by fasting morning and night, and drinking 
cold sage tea constantly and freely. 

It is reckoned admirable as a cordial, and to sweeten and 
cleanse the blood. It is good in nervous cases, and is given in 
fevers, with a view to promote perspiration. With the ad- 
dition of a little lemon juice, it is very grateful and cooling. 

NOSE BLEEDING. 

Roll up a piece of paper and press it up under the upper 
lip. 

BLEEDING AT THE N06E. 

In obstinate cases, blow a little gum Arabic powder up the 
nostrils through a quill, which will immediately stop the dis* 
charge. 

TO KILL EARWIGS, OR OTHER mSECTS, WHICH MAY ACJCI- 
DENTALLT HAVE CREPT INTO THE EAR. 

Let the person under this distressing circumstance lay his 
head upon a table, the side upwards that is afflicted ; at the 
same time, let some friend carefully drop Into the ear a little 
sweet oil or oil of almonds. A drop or two will be sufficient, 
which will instantly destroy the insect and remove the pain, 
however violent 



MXDICIHAL KXCXPK8,ET0. 895 

8IMFLE AND EFFECTUAL CURE FOB THOSE WHO MAT AOCI- 
DENTALLY HAVE SWALLOWED A WASP. 

Instantly, on the alarming accident Uiking plai'e, put a tea- 
spoon fnll of common salt In your mouth, which will instan- 
taneously not only kill the wasp, but at the same time heal 
the Bting. 

FOB COBN8. 

Take white-pine turpentine, spread a plaster, apply it to the 
com, and let it stay on till it comes off of itself. Repeat this 
three times. It is also good for wouuds. 

TO PBEVENT THE LOOK-JAW. 

It has been stated on what was supposed to be good author- 
ity, that an application of warm lye, made of ashes, as stnmg 
as possible, to a woumled piirt, will prevent the Idck-jaw ; if a 
fiH)t, or a hand, immerse it in the lye — if another part of the 
bo<ly, let it be bathed with flannels wrung out from the warm 
liquid. 

EXTBAOT OF ABNICA FOB BBUI3ES, 8PBAINS, BUBNS, ETO. 

Take one ounce of arnica flowers, dried — that prepared by 
the Shakers is considered the best — and put them in a wide- 
mouthed bottle ; pour just enough scalding water over them to 
moisten them, and afterward about a pint or a pint and a half 
of spirits of wine. In case of a bum or bruise, &c., wet a cloth 
in the arnica, and lay it on the part aflected. Renew the ap- 
plication occasiooally, and the pain will soon be removed. 

FOB A 8PBAIN. 

Mix equal parts of spirits of camphor, distilled Tinegar, and 
turpentine, and rub the part affected. 
Cold wifttf Applkatiooi trs wdnllMit far lyniBi; •% U 



806 DOMMTIO ■OONOMT. 

iMithe the part Id oold water, to pour oold water apon it, (m* to 
put bandages wet in oold water around it 

Extract of arnica, applied to a sprain, will remove the pain 
in a short time. 



FBBBEBYATION OF TEDB TEFTH. 

Perfect cleanliness about the mouth should be diligentlj 
practiced, not only for the sake of the appearance, but as the 
best preservative from decay of the teeth. Every morning, 
and after meals, the teeth should be cleansed by a soft brush 
and pure water. A little charcoal now and then is all the 
tooth powder requisite. Picking the teeth with pins is not 
only an offensive habit, but it is also exceedingly hurtful, since 
it loosens the teeth, and renders them more liable to decay. 
Teeth are frequently injured by cracking nuts, or plum stonea, 
and biting hard substances ; also, by improper food, and par- 
ticularly by scalding hot drinks. 

TO KBMOYB SOUBVT FROM THE TEETH. 

Heat a piece of steel red hot, and quench it in a quart of 
white wine vinegar, eight or ten times, as ^t as you can heat 
it ; then add to this liquor an ounce of powdered myrrh, and 
half an ounce of mastic, powdered ; wash your teeth two or 
three times a day with this liquid, and the scurvy will disap- 
pear. 

THE TEETHING OF CHILDREN. 

Use castor oil to keep the bowels open. If the pabs are 
severe, give them a little par^oria The gums are to be 
rubbed with honey two or three times a day. For drink, 
they may have balm tea. Children, in teething, should have 
fi«e accees to the pure air. 



MXDICINAL RKOIPXa, ETC, 897 

FOB THB CtTRB OF OANOEB. 

Put water with the ashes of red oak bark, and boil it down 
to the oonsistence of molasses, and cover the cancer with a coat 
of it. In about an hour afberward cover it with a plaster of 
tar, which must be removed after a few days, and if any pro- 
tuberance remain in the wound, apply more potash and the 
plaster again, until it shall wholly disappear. 

A OEBTAIN OUBB FOB OANOEB. 

Take an egg, pour out the white, then stir into the yolk fine 
'faJt until it is quite thick ; then put it on the cancer as a plas- 
ter ; continue it until it is cured. 

POISON OF B^TTLESNAKBB. 

It has been discovered that this poison is a most powerfbl 
sedative, and that stimulants are its antidotes. Alcohol is 
designated. In two instances in which this remedy has been 
applied, the persons have been cured. Brandy was freely 
given to them until relieved from the usual symptoms, and 
continued in smaller doses until the third day, when they went 
about as usual. 

TINCrrUBB FOB DISEASED QUHB. 

Take Peruvian bark, coarsely powdered, one ounce, and in- 
fuse it for a fortnight in half a pint of brandy. Gargle the 
mouth at night with a teaspoon full of this tincture, diluted 
with an equal quantity of rosewater. 

MAD D0G8 — ^A PBEVENTIVB. 

Mix a small portion of the flour of sulphur with their food 
or drink. This has been known in Europe for centuries, and 
is used to prevent this disease from breaking out among the 
packs of hounds upon the estates of English noblemen. 



808 D0MB8TI0 BCOZrOMT. 

TO PREVENT WOUND8 FROM MOBTIFTIKO. 

Sprinkle sugar on them. The Turks Wiv^h fresh wounds 
with wine, and sprinkle sugjir on them. Obstinate ulcers 
may be cured with sugar dissolved in a strong decoction of 
walnut leaves. 

TO CURE POISON ON THE HANDS. 

It is stated in the Farmer's Advocate, tiiat poison on the 
hands or other parts, occasioned by the running ivy, or poison 
vine, may be cured by rubbing the part a few times with lard# 
If so, the same application may be a remedy for other kindred 
affections. 

SHORTNESS OF BREATH. 

Take a quarter of an ounce of elecampane root, half an ounce 
of powder of licorice, as much flour of brimstone, and pow- 
der of anise seed, and two ounces of sugar candy, powdered. 
Make all into pills, with a sufficient quantity of tar. l^ake 
four lar^e pills when going to rest This is an incomparable 
medicine for an asthma. Or, take half a pint of the juice of 
stinging nettles; boi^, and skim it, and mix it up with as mudi 
clarified honey. Take a spoon full morning and evening. 

RELIEF FOR ASTHMA. 

Mix two ounces of the best honey with one ounce of castor 
oil, and take a teaspoon full night and morning. 

GARGLE FOR SORE THROAT, 

On twenty-five or thirty leaves of the common sage pour a 
pint of boiling water ; let the infusion stand half an hour. 
Add vinegar enough to make it moderately acid, and honey 
to the taste. Use it, as a gargle, several times a day. This 
combination of the astringent and emollient principle seldom 
&il8 to produce the desired e&ot 



MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 399 

BALSAM OF HONEY. 

Take balsam of Tulu two ounces, gum stonix two drachms, 
opium two drachms, honey eight ounces. Dissolve these in a 
quart of spirits of wine. This balsam is very useful in hoarse- 
ness, and allays irritation of the lung^i. It will oflen cure a 
cough that is alarming. Dose, one or two teaspoous full in a 
little warm tea. 

BIMPLB MIXTURE FOR BOWEL COMPLAINTS. 

Take rhubarb one ounce, saleratus one teaspoon full, and 
pour on them a pint of boiling water. When cold, add two 
teaspoons full of the essence of peppermint. Dose, as above. 

FOR A BURN. 

Beat an apple with salad oil until it is a poultice, pretty 
soft ; bind it on the part, and, as it dries, lay on fresh. You 
must be sure to pare, core, and beat your apple well, so as 
not to break the skin about the bum. It is said nothing has 
been found so sure to remove the fire, and it is cooling and 
soothing in a high degree. It is cheap, and always to be had 
in the season of apples. 

ANOTHER. 

A correspondent of the New England Farmer says, that 
equal parts of lime water and sweet oil, mixed and incorpora- 
ted, will form a kind of soap, which makes an excellent appH* 
cation for bums. Also, that it is very efficacious in taking out 
the inflammation as well as for healing the wounds caused 
either by bums or scalds. 

SALVE TO CURE BRUISBS AND SORES. 

Take an ounce and a half of olive oil, two ounces of white 
diacula, and two ounces of beeswax ; let these ingredients be 
dissolved together, and the salve is formed. It has been fre- 



400 DoifBanc bgonomt. 

quendy used with entire satis&ction, answering the hest possi- 
ble purpose. 

OPODELDOC. 

Take common white soap three ounces, camphor one ounce, 
oil of origanum half an ounce, alcohol one pint Cut the soap, 
and dissolve it in the alcohol, in which the other articles have 
been previously dissolved, and cool it in wide-mouthed vials, 
for use. 

CUKE FOB THE PILES. 

The following simple application will certainly cure this 
most distressing complaint It has been tried by many and 
found successful. Take three ounces of pulverized alum, and 
place in a belt made of cotton drilling, two inches in width, 
and wear the belt around the body, above the loins. It should 
be worn next the skin. Its operation is alow, but certain. 
Sweet oil is an excellent application for the parts affected. 
Carrot poultices give great relieC 

FOB SMALL OUTS Ain> WOUKDS. 

Moisten a piece of lint with a saturated soIuticHi of copal 
gum in ether, and apply over the injured part Moisten it 
once or twice a day, by pouring a suflicient quantity over it, 
without removing the lint If it be a cut, care should be ta- 
ken to bring the edges together, when the application, from 
its stickmg quality, will keep them in that state. A bandage 
may also be applied, but when the mischief is not very exten- 
sive, it is unnecessary. 

ADYANTAOES OF BATHING. 

It is a &ct officially recorded, that during the terrible visita- 
tions of cholera in France, out of nearly sixteen thousand two 
hundred and twenty-eight subscribers to the public baths of 
Farisi Bordeaux, and Marseilles^ only two deaths among them 



MEDICINAL RK0IPX8, ETO. 401 

were ascribed to cholera. We doubt whether there exists a 
more effectual, preventive of disease of every kind, and a greater 
promoter of good health at all times, than the practice of daily 
bathing. 

DYSPEPnO LYE. 

Take of hickory ashes one quart, soot two ounces, boiling 
water one gallon. Mix, and let them stand for twenty-four 
hours, frequently stirring the ingredients; then pour off the 
lye, and bottle it up. A teacup of this liquor may be given 
three times a day. 

8IB A. CXX)P£b'8 GHTLBLAIN LINIMENT. 

One ounce of camphorated spirits of wine, and half an ounce 
of liquid sub-acetate of lead ; mix, and apply in the usual way 
three or four times a day. Some persons use vin^ar as a 
preventive; its efficacy might be increased, by the addition to 
the vinegar of on&:fourth of its quantity of camphorated spirits. 

80ALD HEAD IN INFANTB. 

This complaint begins in brownish spots on the head, and 
in a few days forms a scab, and discharges a thick, gluey mnt- 
ter, that sticks upon the hair. The sores gradually increase, 
until the whole head is covered with a scab, discharging this 
matter, which b very offensive. The hair is to be cut oflfaa 
close as possible, and the head washed every night and morn- 
ing with lime water. This is easily prepared by slacking a 
piece of quicklime, of the size of a hen's egg, in a quart of wa- 
ter, and when settled, it is to be put into a bottle and corked 
for use. 

OOLUMBO BOOT AND GmOEB FOB DIARRHEA. 4:01 

Columbo root, bruised, one ounce ; ginger two drachms, 
and boiling wa(er one pint. Let them infuse one hour by the 
fire, and give of the strained liquor (cold) a wine-glass full 

20 



402 DOMisnc xcoRoifr. 

every two hours. This infusion, when freely used, has proved 
suocessful in bowel complaint (chronic diarrhea) of long 
standing. 

A SIMPLE MEDICINE FOB DYSPEPSIA. 

A little rhubarb root chewed at night, or the following sim- 
ple pill, will be of service in many cases. For the pill, take 
of rhubarb, in powder, half a drachm, of Castile soap one 
drachm, and of ipecacuanha, in powder, half ft drachm ; mix 
them well together in honey or any syrup, to which add a lit- 
tle powdered ginger, to make the mixture pleasant to the 
stomach ; make it into thirty pills, one of which may be taken 
every morning, noon, and night; this will give a tone to the 
stomach and bowels, but as an alterative, and keep them gen- 
tly open. This is an innocent and most useful pill, and will 
af!l>rd great relief with proper exercise and diet, which must 
never be neglected. A teaspoon full or a tablespoon full of 
common charcoal, pounded very fine, and taken three times a 
day in a tumbler of cold water, is an excellent remedy in this 
complaint. 

FOB QUINSY. 

Take a parcel of hops, in quantity pn^portioned to the 
amount of medicine to be prepared. Let them be simmered 
in water a short time, till their strength is extracted. Let 
the liquid then be strained and duly sweetened with sugar. 
It may be given to children or adults, ia doses suited to the 
age, until relieved. 

FOB WHOOPINa OOUGH. 

Twenty grains of salts of tartar, ten of cochineal, one gill 
of warm water, and loaf sugar to make it very sweet. Put 
all in a vial, and give a teaspoon full three times a day, to a 
child two or three years old. 



MBDIOINAL RK0IPX8, XTa 408 

ANOTHER. 

ft is said, if you mix castor oil and molasses, in equal pro- 
portions, and give a teaspoon full whenever the cough is troub- 
lesome ; there will be almost immediate relief, and will facili- 
tate an entire cure. It is also serviceable in violent attacks of 
the croup. In the whooping cough, the bowels should be kept 
open by frequent doses of castor oil, if found necessary. 

A GOOD PLASTER FOR A COUGH. 

Take beeswax, Burgundy pitch, and rosin, each an ounce ; 
melt them together, and then stir in three-quarters of an ounce 
of common turpentine, and half an ounce of oil of mace. 
Spread it on a piece of sheep^s leather, grate some nutmeg 
over the whole plaster, and apply it quite warm. 

Godfrey's cordial. 
Dissolve half an ounce of opium, one drachm of oil of sassa- 
fras^ in two ounces of spirits of wine. Mix four pounds of trea- 
cle with one gallon of boiling water, and when cold, mix to- 
gether. This is the celebrated cordial so much used for 
children. 

PRBCAnnONS AGAINST CONSUMPTIONS. 

No doubt an adhesion to the following counsel will counter- 
act all ordinary predispositions to consumptions. Avoid all 
spirituous liquors, live temperately, wear flannel next to the 
skin, and take every morning half a pint of new milk, mixed 
with a wine glass of the juice of green hoarhound. One who 
han tried it says, ibur weeks* use of the hoai*hound and milk 
relieved the pains in his breast, enabled him to breathe deep, 
long, and free, strengthened and harmonized his voice, &c 

REMEDY FOR HAVING DRANK TOO MUCH COLD WATER. 

Persons who have imprudently drank of cold water or any 
other cold liquid, when too much heated, should take doses of 



4M D0UX8TIC XCONOMT. 

liquid laudanum, proportioned to the violence of the pain. 
From a teaspoon full to near a tablespoon full has been given 
before relief has been obtained. The sooner taken, the better. 

FOB AGUE AND FEVER. 

Half an ounce of doves, half an ounce cream tartar, one 
ounce of Peruvian bark, well pulverized. Put them into a 
bottle of best port wine, and take the decoction or tincture on 
the well days, as fast as the stomach will receive it In more 
than, five hundred cases this has been known to prove effi- 
cacious. 

FOB DIABBHEA. 

Parch half a pint of rice until it is perfectly brown ; boil it 
down as usually done, and eat it slowly, and it will check, if 
not entirely stop, the most violent diarrhea in a few hours. 
Ordinarily, a littlp brandy, say half a wine-glass full, with loaf 
sugar dissolved in it, will have the same effect However, it 
is better, in all cases, to avoid alcohol even as a medicine, if 
other antidotes can be had. In the more obstinate cases;, 
where brandy b used, its efficacy is increased by stirring it 
With a red-hot iron. 

HOBSERADISH FOB HOARSENESS. 

One drachm of the fresh scraped root of this plant, infused 
with four ounces of water, in a close vessel for two hours, and 
made into a syrup with double weight of sugar, is an approved 
recipe for removing hoarseness. A teaspoon full of this has 
often proved suddenly effectual 

FOB INDIGESTION. 

Peach meats are excellent for indigestion ; eat slowly fix>m 
one to six. 



MEDICINAL RECIPX8, ETO. * 405 

BRONCHITIS. 

A writer in the Baltimore Sun, whose family has been se- 
.verety afflicted with bronchitis, recommends the following as 
a remedy, from which they experienced great relief: Take 
honey in the comb, squeeze it out, and dilute it with a little 
water, and occasionally moisten the lips and mouth with it. 
It has never been known to fiul, even in eases where children 
had throats so swollen as to be unable to swallow. It is cer- 
tainly a simple remedy, and may be a very efficacious one. 

TUBNIP 8TRUP, FOB A COLD OB AFFECTION OF THE LUNGS. 

Roast twelve or more fine turnips in an apple-roaster, press 
the juice from them, and add sugar candy to your taste. Take 
a teacup full at night and in the morning. 

FOBEION BODIES IN THE THBOAT. 

Persons are frequently in danger of sufibcation from fish 
bones, pins, &o., which stick in the throat. The moment an 
accident of this kind occurs, desire the patient to be perfectly 
still; open his mouth, and look into it If you see the ob- 
struction, endeavor to seize it with your finger and thumb, or 
a long, slender pair of pincers. If it cannot be got up, and is 
not of a nature to do any injury in the stomach, push it down 
with the handle of a spoon, or a flexible, round piece of whale- 
bone, the end of which is neatly covered with a roll of linen, 
or anything that may be at hand. If you can neither get it up 
nor down, place six grains of tartar emetic in the patient's 
mouth. As it dissolves, it will make him excessively sick, and 
in consequence of the relaxation, the bone, or whatever it may 
be, will descend into the stomach, or be ejected from the mouth. 
If a pin, button, or other metallic or pointed body has been 
swallowed, or pushed into the stomach, make the patient eat 
plentifiilly of thick rice pudding, and endeavor to prevent him 
from going to stool for at least twelve hours. 



406 DOMKSTIC XCONOMT. 

OOMPOUIO) TIKCTURE OF RHUBARB. 

Take of rhubarb, sliced, two ounces; of licorice root, bruis- 
ed, one half ounce; ginger, powdered, saffron, each two 
drachms; distilled water, one pint; proof spirits of wine twelve 
ounces, by measure. Digest for fourteen days, and strain. 
Dose, half an ounce as an aperient, or one ounce in violent 
diarrhea. 

TINCTURE OF GINOER. 

Take of ginger, in coarse powder, two ounces, and of proof 
spirits two pints. Digest in a gentle heat for seven days, and 
strain. This tincture is cordial and stimulant, and is generally 
employed as a corrective to purgative draughts. 

FUMIGATING POWDER. 

Take of cascarilla, reduced to a coarse powder, chamomile 
flowers, anise seed, each equal parts, two ounces. Put some hot 
cinders in a shovel, sprinkle this gradually on it, and fumigate 
the chambers of the sick. It takes off all smell, and keeps off 
bfection. 

rroH. 

Make use of sulphur; it is an old but an effectual remedy. 
Or, take half a pound of fresh butter, and a teacup full of vin- 
egar; simmer till it evaporates; add one nutmeg, grated, and 
a tablespoon full of ground allspice; let it co<>l to the thick- 
ness of cream, and add one teaspoon full of sulphur. Anoint 
three days in succession, and it will efiect an entire cure. It 
will need no change of garments. 

RHEUMATISM. 

To a hand full of blue flag root add a pint of good spirits ; 
let it stand a week. Dose, a spoon full three times a day, and 
iooTMM by d«gr«M to thrae tablwpooiw M * day. Aa Id- 



MXDICnrAL BSCIPX9, STO. 407 

dian remedy. Or, apply a poultice of hot potatoes; renew 
as often as it becomes cool or hard. It is said to be a very 
excellent remedy. 

THE SnOWER-BATH. 

The cold shower-bath is less alarming to nervous persons, 
and less liable to produce cramps, than cold immersion ; it 
may be considered as the best and safest mode of cold bath- 
ing, and is recommended in many nervous complaints. It has 
also afforded relief in some cases of insanity. 

DB. BOERHAAYe's RULES. 

This great man left, as a legacy to the world, the following 
simple and unerring directions for preserving health; they 
contain the sum and substance of his vast professional knowl- 
edge, during a long and useful life : *^ Keep the feet warm, 
the head cool, and the body open." If these were generally 
attended to, the physician^s aid would seldom be required. 



POISOXS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. 

First ascertain, if possible, what poison the person has ta- 
ken, and then a resort may be had to the following remedies, 
if on hand, while a person goes for the doctor. It should be 
remembered that the ordinary calcined magnesia, mixed in 
water, is considered a certain antidote to numerous poisons of 
metallic origiu, such as arsenic, corrosive sublimate, sulphate 
of zinc, &a 

ACIDS. 

Such are oil of vitriol, aqua fortia, oxalic acid. These cause 
great heat, and sensation of burning pain, from the mouth 
down to the stomach. Remedies, magnesia, soda, pearlash, 
Boap dissolved in water, or flaxseed tea ; then use a stomach- 
pomm or MMtiaa. 



408 D0MB8TTC KCONOMT. 

ALOOHOL. 

First cleanse out the stomach by an emetic, then dash oold 
water on the head, and give ammonia (spirits of hartshorn.) 

ALKAUKS. 

Such are caustic potash, caustic eoda, and Tolatile alkali. 
Take vinegar or lime juice. Afterward large quantities of 
sugar and water. 

AMMONIA. 

Remedy, lemon juice or vinegar; afterward milk and wa- 
ter, or flaxseed tea. 

ABSEMIO. 

The symptoms are the same as in mercurial poisons. Rem* 
edies: in the first place, evacuate the stomach ; then give the 
white of eggs, lime water, or chalk and water, charcoal, and 
the preparations of iron, particularly hydrate. 

BELLADONNA, OR NIQHT HENBANB. 

Give emetics, and then plenty of vinegar and water, or lem* 
onade. 

CHAKOOAL. 

In poisons by carbonic gas, remove the patient to open air, 
dash cold water on the head and body, and stimulate the nos- 
trils and lungs by hartshorn, at the same time rubbing the 
chest briskly. 

OOBKOeiVE SUBLIMATE. 

Constriction, with great pain in the throat, stomadi, and 
bowels. Give white of eggs freshly mixed with water; or 
give wheat flour and water, or so%p and water, freely. 



USiAOlSkL BB0IPI8, ETC. 409 

OBBO0OTB. 

White of eggs, and the emetics. 

LEAD. 

Sugar of lead, extract of satum, white lead, litharge, min- 
ium. A sweet, astringent taste in the mouth, constriction of 
the throat, pain in the stomach, bloody vomiting, &c Dis- 
solve a hand full of Epsom or Glauber salts in a pint of water, 
and give it at once ; when it has vomited him, use sweetened 
water. If the symptoms continue, act as directed for acids. 

MUSHBOOM8. 

Give emetics, and then plenty of vinegar and water, with a 
dose of ether, if handy. 

NITRATE OF SILVER (lUNAR CAUSTIC.) 

Give a strong solution of common salt, and then emetics. 

NITRATE OF POTASH, OR SALTPBTRB. 

Give emetics, then copious draughts of flaxseed tea, milk 
and water and other soothing drinks. 

OPIUM, OR LAUDANUIC 

Stupor, inclination to sleep, delirium, convulsions. First 
give a strong emetic of mustard and water, then strong coffee 
and acid drinks ; dash cold water on the head. 

OXALIC AdD. 

Frequently mistaken for Epsom salts. Remedies, chalky 
magilesia, or soap and water, freely ; then emetics. 

PRUS8IC ACED. 

When there is time, administer chlorine, in the shape of 
soda or lime ; hot brandy and water ; hartshorn and turpen- 
tine are also useful. 

R 



410 DOMXSTXO XCOVOMT. 

SNAKE BTTKS, ETC. 

Apply immediately strong hartshorn, and take it internally ; 
also, give sweet oil, and stimulants, freely. Apply a lit^a- 
ture tight above tiie part bitten, and then apply a cupping-glass. 

STmaS FROM BEBS. 

In stings from bees and other insects, bathe with salt and vin- 
egar, or sal-ammoniac and vinegar. 

TARTAR EMETIC. 

Give large doses of tea made of galls, Peruvian bark, or 
white oak bark. 

TOBACCO, HEMLOCK, XIOHTSHADE, SPURRED RYE, ETC. 

An emetic, as directed for opium. If the poison has been 
Bwallowed some time, purge with castor oil. After vomit- 
ing and purging, if still drowsy, bleed, and give vinegar and 
water. 

WHITE VITRIOL. 

Give the patient plenty of milk and water. In almost all 
cases of poisoning, emetics are highly useful ; and of those, one 
of the very best, beciuise most pn)nipt and ready, is the c<iin- 
mon mustard flour or powdor, a spoon full of which, slirn^d 
up in warm water, may be given every five or ten minutes, 
until free vomitin;^ cm be obtained. 

Emetics and warm, demulcent drinks, such as milk and wa- 
ter, flaxseed, or slipf)ery elm tea, chalk water, &c, should be 
administered without delay. The subsequent management of 
the Cfise will of course be lefl; to a physician. 

When poisoned by dogwood, ivy, or swamp sumac, dissolve 
a quarter of an ounce of copperas (sulphate of iron) in a pint 
of water, and bathe the part afiected. 



MEDICINAL PREPARATIONS AND HERBS, 



WHICH EVERY FAMILY OUGHT TO KEEP ON HAND. 



Skiva. Dose, a tablespoon full 
of the leavee«8teeped,for an adult 

Strup or Rbubarb. 

Camphor. 

Castor Oil. Dose, for an adult, 
a tablespoon full; for a child, a 
teaspoon full 

Strcp op Squills. For a child, 
half a teaspoon full. 

SWBBT Oiu 

pARBGORia For a child five to 
twenty drops. 

Hot Drops. A teaspoon full 
for an adult 

Ground Mustard. 

Wink IpBOAa Dose, to act as 
an emetic, fifteen drops, repeated 
every fifteen minutes, till it op- 
erates ; for an adult^ a teaspoon 
full. 

Composition. Dose, a teaspoon 
full for an adult 

Maqnesia. 



Pksjntrotal, for a cold, Ac. 

Red Raspberry Leaves, for dys- 
entery, canker, Ae. 

Slippery £lm, for poultices and 
drinks. 

Mullen Leaves, for poultices 
and fomentatious. 

Flax Seed. 

Cranesbill, for canker. 

Wormwood, for bruises, wormsy 
<bc. 

Sage. 

Tuoroughwort. 

Catnip. 

Spearmint. 

Horseradish Leavsb. 

Valerian. 

Burdock Leaves. 

hoarhound. 

Yarrow, for blood spitting, 
dysentery, Ac 

Blaoeberry Root or Syruf, for 
dysentery. 



QUALITIES OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Bbbf. When this is the flesh of a bullock of middle age, 
it affords good and strong noarishment, and is peculiarly well 
adapted to those who labor, or take much exercise. It will 
often sit easy upon stomachs that can digest no other kind of 
food ; and its fat is almost as easily digested as that of veaL 

Veal is a proper food for persons recovering from indispo- 
sition, and may even be given to febrile patients in a very 
weak state, but it afibrds less nourishment than the fiesh of 
the same animal in a state of maturity. The &t of it is lighter 
than that of any other animal, and shows the least disposition 
to putrescency. Veal is a very suitable food in costive habits ; 
but of all meat it is the least calculated for removing acidity 
from the stomach. 

Mutton, from the age of four to six years, and fed on dry 
pasture, is an excellent meat. It is of a middle kind between 
the firmness of beef and the tenderness of veal. The lean part 
of mutton, however, is the most nourishing and conducive to 
health, the fat being hard of digestion. The head of the sheep, 
especially when divested of the skin, is very tender ; and 
the feet, on account of the jelly they contain, are highly nu- 
tritive. 

Lamb is not so nourishing as mutton ; but it is light, and 
extremely suitable to delicate stomachs. 

House Lamb, though much esteemed by many, possesses 
the bad qualities common to the Besh of all animals reared in 
an unnatural manner. 



▲MDIAL AKD VBOXTABLK FOOD. 413 

Pork affords rich and substantial nourishment, and its juices 
are wholesome when properly fed, and when the animal en- 
joys pure air and exercise. But the flesh of hogs reared in 
towns is both hard of digestion and unwholesome. Pork is 
particulaaly improper for those who are liable to any foulness 
of the skin. 

Smoked Hams are a strong kind of meat, and rather fit for 
a relish than for diet It is the quality of all salted meat that 
the fibres become rigid, and therefore more difficult of digestion ; 
and when to this is added smoking, the heat of the chimney 
occasions the salt to concentrate, and the &t between the mus- 
cles sometimes to become rancid. 

Bacon is also of an indigestible quality, and is apt to turn 
rancid on weak stomachs ; but for chose in health it is an ex- 
cellent food, especially when used with fowl or veal, or e^en 
eaten with peas, cabbages, or cauliflowers. 

Goat's Flbsh is hard and indigestible ; but that of kid is 
tender, as well as delicious, and affords good nourishment. 

Vknison, or the flesh of deer, and that of hares, is of a nour- 
ishing quality, but is liable to the inconvenience, that, though 
much disposed to putrescency of itself, it must be kept for a 
little time before it becomes tender. 

The Blood of Animals is used as an aliment by the com- 
mon people, but they could not long subsist upon it unless 
mixed with oatmeal, dsc., for it is not very soluble, alone, by 
the digestive powers of the human stomach, and therefore can- 
not prove nourishing. 

Milk is of very different consistence in different animals ; 
but that of cows being the kind used in diet, is at present the 
object of our attention. Milk, where it agrees with the stomach, 
affords excellent nourishment for those who are weak, and can- 
not digest other aliments. It does not readily become putrid, 
but it is apt to become sour on the stomach, and thence to pro- 
duce flatulence, heart-bum, or gripes, and in some oonstitutiooa 



414 DOMBSTIO ECONOMT. 

a looseness. The best milk is from a cow at three or four 
ye&rs of age, about two months after producing a calf. It is 
lighter, but more water j, than the milk of sheep and goats ; 
while, on the other hand, it is more thick and heavy than the 
milk of assB:} and mares, which are next in consistence to hu- 
man milk. 

On aooount of the aoid which is generated after digestion, 
milk coagulates in all stomachs ; but the caseous or cheesy 
part is again dissolved by the digestive juices, and rendered fit 
for the purposes of nutrition. It is improper to eat acid sub- 
stances with milk, as these would tend to prevent the due di- 
gestion of it. 

Cream is very nourishing, but, on account of its Witness, is 
difficult to be digested in weak stomachs. Violent exercise, 
afber eating it, will, in a little time, convert it into butter. 

Butter. Some writers inveigh against the use of butter as 
universally pernicious ; but they might with equal reason con- 
demn all vegetable oils, which form a considerable part of diet 
in the southern climates, and seem to have been beneficially 
intended by nature for that purpose. Butter, like every other 
oily substance, has doubtless a relaxing quality, and if long re- 
tained in the stomach, is liable to become rancid ; but, if eaten 
in moderation, it will not produce those effects. It is, how- 
ever, improper in bilious constitutions. The worst conse- 
quence produced by butter, when eaten with bread, is, that it 
obstructs the discharge of the saliva, in the act of mastication 
or chewing ; by which means the food is not so easily diges- 
ted. To obviate this effect, it would be a commendable prac- 
tice at break&st, first to eat some dry bread, and chew it well, 
till the salivary glands were exhausted, and afterward to eat it 
with butter. By these means such a quantity of saliva might 
be carried into the stomach as would be sufficient for the pur- 
pose of digestion. 

Chxbbic is likewise reprobated by many as extremely un- 



ANIMAL AKD VCOKTABLB tOOJk 415 

"wholesome. It is doubtless not easy of digestion ; and when 
eaten in a groat quantity, mny overload iho stomach ; IwJt if 
taken sparingly, its tenacity may be dissolved by the digestive 
juices, and it may yield a wholesome, though not very nour- 
ishing chyle. Toasted cheese is agreeable to most palates, but 
It is rendered more indigestible by that process. 

Fowls. The flesh of birds differ in quality according to the 
fo<xl on which they live. . Such as feed upon grain and berries, 
aflord, in general, good nourishment ; if we except geese and 
ducks, which are of hard digestion, especially the former. A 
young hen or chicken is tender and delicate food, and extremely 
well adapted where the digestive powers are weak. But of ail 
tame fowls, the capon is the most nutritious. 

TuKKEYS, &c Turkeys, as well as Guinea or India fowls, 
afford a bubsuuitial nutriment, but are not so easy of digestion 
as the common domestic fowls. In all birds those parts are the 
mobt firm, whii-h are mo>t exercised ; in the small birds, there- 
fore, the winces, and in the larger kinds the leg<, arec(mimonly 
tJie mo.-t difficult of dig**>tion. 

Wild Fowls. The flesl» of wild birds, iii general, though 
more easily dige>ted, is less nourishing than that of quadru- 
peds, as being more dry on account of their almost constant 
exercise. Those birds are not wholesome which subsist upon 
worms, insects, and fishes. 

£oG8. The eggs of birds are a simple and wholesome ali- 
ment Those of the turkey are superior in all the qualifica- 
tions of food. The white of eggs is dissolved in a warm tein- 
perature, but by much heat it U rendered tough and hard. 
The yolk contains nmch oil, and is highly nourishing, but has 
a stn>ng tendency to putrefiurtion ; on which account, eggs are 
improper for people of weak stoiiuKrhs, especially wlu-n they 
are not quite frc^h. Kg;^s boiled hard or fried are difficult of 
digestion, and are rendered still more indigestible by the ad- 



416 DOMBSTIO KCONOMT. 

dition of butter. All eggs require a sufficient quantity of salt^ 
to promote their solution in the stomach. 

Fish, though some of them be light and easy of digestion, 
afford less nourishment than vegetables, or the flesh of quadru- 
peds, and are, of all the animal tribes^ the most disposed to pu- 
trefaction. Salt water fish are, in general, the best ; but when 
salted, though less disposed to putresoency, they become more 
difficult of digestion. Whitings and flounders are the most 
easily digested. Acid sauces, and pickles, by resisting putre- 
faction, are a proper addition to fish, both as they retard pu- 
trescency, and correct the relaxing tendency of butter, so gen- 
erally used with this kind of aliment. 

Otstsrs and Cocklss are eaten both raw and dressed ; but 
in the former state they are preferable, because heat dissipates 
considerably their nutritious parts as well as the salt water, 
which promotes their digestion in the stomach ; if not eaten 
very sparingly, they generally prove laxative. 

Muscles and Pbriwinklsb are far inferior to oysters, both 
in point of digestion and nutriment. Sea muscles are by some 
supposed to be of a poisonous nature ; but though this opinion 
is not much countenanced by experience, the safest way is to 
eat them with vinegar, or some other vegetable acid. 

Bread. At the head of the vegetable class stands bread, 
that article of diet which, from general use, has received the 
name of the staff of life. Wheat is the grain chiefly used for 
the purpose in this country, and is among the most nutritive 
of all the ^rinaceous kinds, as it ountains a great deal of starch. 
Bread is very properly eaten with animal food, to correct the 
disposition to putrescency ; but is most expedient with such 
articles of diet as contain much nourishment in a small bulk, 
because it then serves to give the stomach a proper degree of 
expansion. But as it produces a slimy chyle, and disposes to 
costiveness, it ought not to be eaten in a large quantity. To 
render bread easy of digestion, it ought to be well fermented 



ANIMAL AND YXOBTABLS r0O9. 417 

and baked, and it never should be used till it has stood twenty- 
four hours after being taken out of the oven, otherwise it is 
apt to occasion various complaints in those who have weak 
stomachs ; such as flatulence, heart-bum, watchfulness, and the 
like. The custom of eating butter with bread, hot from the 
oven, is compatible only with very strong digestive powers. 

Pastrt, especially when hot, has all the disadvantages of hot 
bread and butter, and even buttered toast, though the bread be 
stale, is scarcely inferior in its effects on a weak stomach. Dry 
toast, with butter, is by far the wholesomest breakfast Brown 
wheaten bread, in which there is a good deal of rye, though 
not so nourishing as that made of fine flour, is both palatable 
and wholesome, but apt to become sour on weak stomachs. 

Oats, Barlet, and Ricb. Oats, when deprived of the husk, 
and particularly barley, when properly prepared, are each of 
them softening, and afford wholesome and cooling nourishment. 
Rice likewise contains a nutritious mucilage, and is much less 
used than it deserves to be, both on account of its whole- 
someness and economical utility. The notion of its being hurt- 
ful to the sight is a vulgar error. In some constitutions it 
tends to induce oostiveness ; but this seems to be owing chiefly 
to flatulence, and may be corrected by the addition of some 
spice, such as caraways, anise seed, and the like. 

PoTATOBs are an agreeable and wholesome food, and yield 
nearly as much nourishment as any of the roots used in diet. 
The farinaceous or mealy kind is in general the most easy of 
digestion, and they are much improved by being roasted or 
baked. They ought almost always to be eaten with meat, and 
never without salt The salt should be boiled with them. 

Grbbn Pba8 and Beans, boiled in their fresh state, are both 

agreeable to the taste and wholesome, being neither so flatulent| 

nor so diflicult of digestion, as in their ripe state; in which 

tliey resemble the other leguminous vegetables. French beans 

possess much the same qualities; but yield a more watery 

R* 27 



418 Doicxmo xcovoirr. 

juioe, and have a greater disposition to produce flatulence. 
They ought to be eaten with some spice. 

Salads, being eaten raw, require good digestive powers, 
especially those of the cooling kind ; and the addition of oil 
and vinegar, though qualified with mustard, hardly renders the 
free use of them consistent with a weak stomach. 

Spinach afibrds a soft lubricating aliment, but contains lit- 
tle nourishment In weak stomachs it is apt to produce acidity, 
and frequently a looseness. To obviate these effects, it ought 
always to be well beaten, and but little butter mixed with it. 

Asparagus is a nourishing article in diet, and promotes the 
secretion of urine ; but in common with the vegetable class, 
disposes a little to flatulence. 

Artichokes resemble asparagus in dieir qualities, but seem 
to be more nutritive, and less diuretic 

Cabbaoks are some of the most conspicuous plants in the 
.garden. They do not afford much nourishment, but are an 
rfgree&ble addition to animal food, and not quite so flatulent as 
ihe common greens. They are likewise diuretic, and some- 
what laxative. Cabbage has a stronger tendency to putrefiio- 
tion than most other vegetable substances ; and, during its pu- 
trefying state, sends forth an offensive smell, much resembling 
that of putrefying animal bodies. So far, however, from pro- 
moting a putrid disposition in the human body, it is, on the 
contrary, a wholesome aliment in the true putrid scurvy. 

Turnips are a nutritious article of vegetable food, but not 
yery easy of digestion, and are flatulent This eflTect is in a 
good measure obviated, by pressing the water out of them be- 
fore they are eaten. 

Carrots contain a considerable quantity of nutritious juice, 
but are among the most flatulent of vegetable productions. 

Parsnips are more nourishing and less flatulent than car- 
rota, which they also exceed in the sweetness of their mucilage. 
By boiling them in two diflbreat waten^ they are rendered 



JUnMAL JUTD YBOXTIBLX VOOD. 419 

less flatulent, but their other qualities are thereby diminished 
in proportion. 

Parsley is of a stimulating and aromatic nature, well cal- 
culated to make agreeable sauces. It is also a gentle diuretic, 
but preferable in all its qualities when boiled. 

CsLKRT affords a root both wholesome and fragrant, but is 
difficult of digestion in its raw state. It gives an agreeable 
taste to soups, as well as renders them diuretic 

Onions, Garlic, and Shalots are all of a stimulating na- 
ture, by which they assist digestion, dissolve slimy humors, 
and expel flatulency. They are, however, most suitable to per- 
sons of a cold and phlcgnmtic constitution. 

Radisbss of all kinds, particularly the horse radish, agree 
with the three preceding articles in powerfully dissolving slimy 
humors. They excite the dischai*ge of air lodged in the in- 
testines. 

Apples are a wholesome vegetable aliment, and in many 
cases medicinal, particularly in diseases of the breast and com- 
plaints arising from phlegm. But, in general, they agree beht 
with the stomach when eaten either roasted or boiled. The 
more an>matic kinds of apples are the fittest fur eating raw. 

Pears resemble much in their effects the sweet kind of ap- 
ples, but have more of a laxative quality, and a greater ten- 
dency to flatulence. 

Cherries are in general a wholesome fruit, when they agree 
with the stomach, and they are beneficial in many diseases, 
especially those of the putrid kind. 

Plums are nourishing, and have besides an attenuating, as 
well as a laxative, quality, but are apt to produce flatulence. 
If eaten fresh, and before they are ripe, especially in large 
quantities^ they occasion colics^ and other complaints of the 
bowels. 

Peaches are not of a very nourishing quality, but they dxaind 
IB jiuoe^aod m MrviMaU^ia bilioua ^^Ty*^**^ 



420 D01CB8TI0 KCONOMT. 

Apricots are more pulpy than peaches, but are apt to fer- 
ment, and produce acidities in weak stomachs. Where they 
do not disagree they are cooling, and tend likewise to correct 
a disposition to putrescency. 

G006SBBRRIB8 AND Currants, when ripe, are similar in their 
qualities to cherries, and when used in a green state, they are 
agreeably cooling. 

Strawbkrriss are an agreeable, coolbg aliment, and are 
accounted good in cases of gravel. 

Cucumbers are cooling, and agreeable to the palate in hot 
weather; but to prevent them from proving hurtful to the 
stomach, the juice ought to be squeezed out after they are 
sliced, and vinegar, pepper, and salt, afterward added. 

Tba. By some, the use of this exotic is condemned in 
terms the most vehement and unqualified, while others have 
either asserted its innocence, or gone so far as to ascribe to it 
salubrious, and even extraordinary virtues. The truth seems 
to lie between these two extremes ; there is, however, an essen- 
tial difference in the effects of green tea and of black, or of 
bohea ; the former of which is much more apt to affect the 
nerves of the stomach, than the latter, more especially when 
drank without cream, and likewise without bread and butter. 
That, taken in a large quantity, or at a later hour than usual, 
tea often produces watchfulness, is a point that cannot be de- 
nied ; but if used in moderation, and accompanied with the 
additions just now mentioned, it does not sensibly discover any 
hurtful effects, but greatly relieves an oppression of the stomach, 
and abates a pain of the head. It ought always to be made of 
a moderate degree of strength; for if too weak it certainly re- 
laxes the stomach. As it has an astringent taste, which seems 
not very consistent with a relaxing power, there is ground fo? 
ascribing this efiect not so much to the herb itself as to the hoi 
water, which not being impregnated with a sufiicient quantity 
of tea, to correct ita own emollient tendency, produces a relaza- 



AVIMAL AND VEOETABLB FOOD. 421 

tion, unjustly imputed to some noxious quality of the plant* 
But tea, like every other commodity, is liable to damage, and 
when this happens, it may produce effects not necessarily con- 
nected with its original qualities. 

CoFrsv. It is allowed that coffee promotes digestion, and 
exhilarates the animal spirits; besides which, various other 
qualities are ascribed to it, such as dispelling flatulency, re- 
moving dizziness of the head, attenuating viscid humors, in- 
creasing the circulation ofthe blood, and consequently perspira- 
tion ; but if drank too strong, it aflects the nerves, occasions 
watchfulness, and tremor of the hands; though in some phleg- 
matic constitutions it is apt to produce sleep. Indeed, it is to 
persons of that habit that coffee is well accommodated ; for 
to people of a thin and dry habit of body it seems to be inju- 
rious. Turkey coffee is greatly preferable in flavor to that of 
the West Indies. Drank only in the quantity of one dish, 
after dinner, to promote digestion, it answers best without 
either sugar or milk ; but if taken at other times, it should 
have both ; or in place of the latter, rather cream, which not 
only improves the beverage, but tends to mitigate the effect 
of coffee upon the nerves. 

Chocolate is a nutritive and wholesome composition, if 
taken in a small quantity, and not repeated too often ; but is 
generally hurtful to the stomach of those with whom a vegeta- 
ble diet disagrees. By the addition of vanilla and other ingre- 
dients, it is made too heating, and so much affects particular 
constitutions as to excite nervous symptoms, especially com- 
plaints of the head. 

Men with unassuming wives never &il. It is the husbands 
of such women as Mrs. Dash and Lady Brilliant who find 
themselves face to £u» with the sheriflj and certain mysteri- 
ous documents, adorned with red tape and wafers, big enough 
for target exercise. 






GENERAL INDEX. 



INTRODUCTION. 



IMPORTANT HINTS TO COOKS. 



PAOI. 

Oeneral Ob6«fT«tloiu^ 7 

lUttor, 7 

CarroUk 7 

Cualtflowon, 7 

C«le«y, 7 



rAOK. 

Game, 7 

Gravies, S 

Lard, 8 

Ba«i 8 

A WOBD FOB THB DUTXBE TaBLB, 8 



CHAPTER I. 



ON CARVING. 



General S«»inark8, 11 

An A1teh-b(»ne of BeeC 18 

BUKtofBeH'. IS 

T)i«* Sirloin of Beet; 18 

Fillet of Veal, 18 

Neck of Veal 18 

Breast »f Veal, U 

L-iinof Vt«l 14 

BhouMerof Veal U 

Calf • Head, .* 15 

Leir of Muttnn, 1ft 

Shoulder of Mutton, 16 

Loin of Mutton, 16 

Nvck of Mutton, 17 

Scratf of Mutton, 17 

Saildle of Mutton, 17 

ll*unch of Mutton 17 

Fore-quarter of Lamb, 17 

Hatinoh of Venison, 18 

Nock of Venison, 18 

Pork, 18 

Harn 18 

B<>iled Tongue, 18 

RiwAtPlic, # 19 

Kabblt 19 

RiMvt Ham. 19 

Boiled Babbit. 90 

Boast ChlflkeM and Tnrfcej, 90 



BolledFowla, 91 

Bmiled Chickena, 81 

Geese. 91 

Pheasant, 22 

Guinea Fowl, 89 

Partridge, 99 

QualU Re<H1.Ri^1^ &G., 29 

OrouM and Plover 29 

Bnipe and Woodcock 29 

W lid Duck and Widgeon 29 

Pigeon, 28 

FIBII. 

Middle Cut of Salmon, 28 

Turliot... U 

Cod's Head and Shonldera, 84 

Haddock, 84 

Mackerel SS 

butcher's JOINTR. 

Beef, 9S 

Veal, 96 

Pork, 86 

M uttnn, 87 

Venison, 97 

To Choosb Mbatb, 98 

POITLTBT Ain> Gaxb, 98 

Fmn, 80 

ShbllFso, 80 



CHAPTER n. 

B0UP8. 

General Dinetleiia, 89 BaefOrB' 

MEAT soon. S'*!!'^' 

WhlteSoiip» S4 Beefflwim 

GfBTySoo^ M H 



Smti: 



424 



OSNIRAL INDEX. 



Baked8oii]i» 88 

Curry S<>un, 86 

Boiipand Boallll, 86 

H(*«stHii Sonp. 8T 

Maccmriinl Soap, 87 

French Sonp, 87 

Puruhle Soap, 87 

Veniilcelli Soap, 88 

Mutt«m Soup, ..■ 88 

Chicken Br<»th, 89 

Kirg Diimplinfra for Soup, 89 

£g{C Balis for Soup, y. 89 

80UPfl OF POULTRT, OAXB, XTa 

Plireon Soup, 89 

INirtrhlfce Soup, 40 

Chifken Soup, 40 

Cifcirs Head Soup, 40 



ptsn SOUPS. 

Eel Sonp, 41 

Clam S<>np« 4t 

Lobeter Soap, 4% 

Oyster Sou{i, 4i 

VROETABLB SOUPS. 

Yeiretable Soup, 4S 

CabbageSoup. 43 

Asparagus Soap, with Oreen Peas,. 44 

Asparagus Soup— Clew, 44 

Hotchpotch, 44 

Onion Soup, 44 

Celery Soup, 44 

Rioe Soup, 45 

Clear Pea Soap, 45 

Green Pea Soap, 45 

PeaSuap, 45 



CHAPTER III. 



ObeeiTstlons on Meats, 

Rosfft Meats, 

Boiling 

BrolIlnK. 

Koast B<>er, 

To Collar Beef, 

To ciHik the tnslde of a Sirlolo, .... 

Fillet of Bc«tf— Roasted, 

Alamnde BecC 

Fillet or R<iuod of Beef— Spiced, . . 

Boef Olive*, 

Hunter's Beef, 

Rump Steak— Stewed, 

BeefPalatea, 

Steaks— Broiled. 

Steaks Rolled and Boasted, ... 
Stewed Beefsteaks, 



BBBF. 

47 Beef Kidneys— Stewed, K 

49 Cake, 56 

49 Heart, 56 

fiO CoUopa, 56 

50 Brisket of Beef— Stewed, 57 

51 Stew of Ox-Cheek, 57 

59 Beef Saunders, 57 

53 A Beef Stew 58 

59 Beef Hsshe^l, 68 

58 To Dress Beef Tongaea, 69 

58 To Stew a Tongue, 59 

68 BeefSaiiMgea, 69 

54 Bn»th 59 

54 Marrow Bonea, 60 

54 Tripe. 60 

65 Smoked Btwf; 60 

53 Potted Beef; 61 



CHAPTER IV. 



YBAL. 



General Observations, 63 

The Fillet of Veal 69 

Bn<a5t of Veal— Forced, 68 

Shoulder of Veal 68 

I^tin of Veal— Slewed, 68 

I^iinofVeal 68 

Knuckle of Veal— Stewed, 68 

NeckofVeal 64 

Teal Cutlets, 64 

CutleU— Oorried^ 64 

V«alPotPle, 66 



OUres of Yeal— Boti, 66 

VeaICollop^ 66 

Calf's Head, 66 

Calves'Eara, 66 

BolledVeal 67 

Calvw' Foet, 67 

Calves' Feet— Fricaseed, 67 

Caif'sHeart, 67 

Kidney, 67 

LiTer, -68 



CHAPTER V. 

MUTTON. 

Ger.era1 Rfimarlca. 69 Leg of Mutton— Roasted TO 

Haunch of Mutton, 69 Roast Leg of Mattoa — Boned and 

fiwldUafMattoD, 70 BtnlBMl, Tl 



GBNBRAL INDBX. 



425 



rAom 

BhonMer of MnfctoD, 70 

Loin or Mntton— Stewed, 71 

Brettit of Mutton, 71 

A iftincide Mutton — A Leg, 71 

Mutton Steekfl, 71 

Chope— Broiled, 73 

Choim— Fri«Ml, 72 

Cutlets. 72 

FUIetoTMulton, 78 



rAO& 

HMh 78 

Hashed Mutton, 78 

Mutton like Venison, 78 

Ilsms. 14 

To Dren Mutton Hsins, 74 

Mutton Kidneys— Broiled, 74 

8lie<»p's Tongues— Stewed, 74 

lilsb Stew, 74 



CHAPTER VI. 



OenersI Ramiirks, 76 

Fttre-qumrter of Lamb— Hoastad, ... 78 

To Rnnst a Leg of Lamb, 76 

To B<>i) a Leg of Lamb, 77 

Stewed Loin of Lamb, 77 



LAMB. 

To Stew a Breast of Lamb, 77 

Lamb Stewed with Pea^ 77 

Bweetbnwls Fricaseed — Brown,... 78 

LambChopB, 78 



CHAPTER VII. 



PORK. 



General Bemarka, T9 

Roast Pig— Served Wbole, 79 

RoastPig, 80 

A Leg of Poric— Boasted, 80 

Loin lif Pork 80 

A Fillet of Pork to resemble Veal,. 81 

Griskin of Pork, 81 

Spare Rib of Pork— Roast, 81 

Chlneof Pork, 81 

PorkSt<>ak 81 

Cutlets, 82 

Sausages— Fine, 82 



Simple SauBagea, 83 

Pork Sausages— English, 88 

Bouse, 88 

Pljf 8 Head— Baked, 88 

Pig's Feet— Stewed 84 

Ilnm KsAliers, or Slices, 84 

BolU-d Ham S4 

To Bakes Ham 85 

Ham and Egics— Fried, i>5 

To try out Lard, 85 

To melt Lard, 86 

Head Cheese^ 86 



CHAPTER VIII. 

POULTRY. 



General Remarks, 88 

RoastTnrkey, 89 

Boiled Turkey, 90 

RiisAt and Raked Goose, 91 

To Roast Ducks, 92 

To lioH Dnck^ 92 

Stewed Ducks, 92 

Canvass Back Daoka, 93 

BoUed Fowl, 98 



SoastFowI, 98 

To Fricassee a Fowl 94 

Fowl-Broiled. 94 

To Grill Cx)ld Fowl, 94 

Chicken Pot Pie, 94 

Chickens Pulled 95 

Chicken and Turkey PatUee, 95 

Salad, 95 



CHAPTER IX 

GAMB, BTO. 



Venison- The Hannoh, 97 

y«*nison Steaks, 98 

To Hash Venison 98 

A Shoulder of Venison— Stewed, ... 98 

Noek aad Shoulder of Vanlsou,. . . . 99 



Pheasanta, 99 

Partrldsea. 99 

Partridge— Broiled, -... 100 

Harea, 100 

Babbits, 100 



GENERAL INDEX. 



INTRODUCTION. 



IMPORTANT HINTS TO COOKS. 



General ObMiratloiM,. 

Batter, 

CaiTotiv 

Cnollfloweni 

Celery, 



PAQC 



PA«r« 

Oame, 7 

Gravies, 8 

Laitl, 8 

Ba«o 8 

A WOBO FOB TBM DXMNBB TaBLS, 8 



CHAPTER I. 



ON CARVING. 



General Kemarlu, 11 

An Attch-bone of Beef; 18 

RUiAorBeer. 18 

Th.' Sirloin of Beef; 18 

FlUeiof Veal, 18 

NeckofVeaU 18 

Breast »f Veal, U 

Lniln of Vi«l. U 

BhouMerof Veal U 

Calf's Head / 15 

Lev of Muttnn, 15 

Bhoalder of Mutton, 16 

Loin of Mutton, 16 

Nt-ck of Mutton, 17 

Scnur of Mutton, 17 

Saildleiif Mutton, 17 

Haunch of Mutton, 17 

Fore-quarter of Lamb, 17 

llauncli of Venison, 18 

Neck of VenUoD, 18 

Pork 18 

Ham 13 

B'>ll«d Tongue, 19 

RoA5tPlg, #..... 19 

Rabbit. 19 

Roast Hare. 19 

Bo|)e<l Rabbit. SO 

BoMt Chtokena and Tnrkej, 80 



BolledFowls, 41 

Broiled Cbieken^ 81 

Geese 21 

Pheasant, 22 

Guinea Fowl, 22 

Partridge, 22 

Quails. Reed-Blnte, &c, 28 

Grouse and Plover 2i 

Snipe and Woo<lcock 22 

Wild Duck and Widgeon, 22 

Pigeon, 28 

FI8I1. 

Middle Gatof Salmon, 28 

Turliot, 24 

C(m1's Head and Sboalders, 24 

Haddock, 24 

Mackerel 86 



Beef,. 



BUTUUBR8 JOINTA. 



Veal 26 

Pork, 26 

Mutton 27 

Venison, 27 

To Ghoosb Mbatb, 28 

POITLTBT AND G^MB, 29 

Fan, 80 

SuiLLFaii, 80 



CHAPTER n. 

SOUPS. 

OenenlDlrBetlona, 89 Beef Gntiy, 84 

Gravj— GiMT, 88 



MEAT SOUPS. 

WhiteBoop, 84 

OtbtjSoov^ M M 



Beef Boap,. 



424 



GBNBRAL INDEX. 



BakedBoup, 86 

Gurry Soup, 86 

Soiipantl BoailH, 86 

He«Minn Sonp^ 87 

Maooironl doap, 87 

French Soup, 87 

Poruble Soup, 87 

VfrmiccllI Soup, 88 

Mutinn Soup 88 

Chicken Broth 89 

Egg Dumplings for Soop, 89 

Egg Bails for doap, y, 89 

80UP8 OP POULTRY, GAME, KTCL 

Pigeon Soup, 89 

Partridge Soup, 40 

Chicken Soup, 40 

Caira Head Soup, 40 



FISH S0UP8. 

Eel Soup, 41 

Clam Soup,. 41 

Lobeter Soup, 49 

Oyster Soup, 4i 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

Vegetable Soup, 43 

Cabbage Soup 48 

Asparagus Soup, with Qreen Peas,. 44 

Asparagus Soup-— Cley, 44 

HotchPoteh, 44 

Onion Soup, 44 

Celery Soup, 44 

Rice Sonp 45 

Clear Pea Soup, 45 

Green Pea Soup, 45 

PeaBoup, 45 



CHAPTER in. 



ObseiTstions on Meats, 

Roast Meats, 

Boiling, 

Broiling. 

Kr)ast iWef, 

To Collar Beef, 

To c(M»k tlie inside of a Sirloin, .... 

Fillet of Beef—Boasted, 

Alamode BeeC 

Fillet or Rimnd of Beef— Spiced, . . 

Beef Olives, 

Hunter's Beef, 

Rump Steak— Stewed, 

BeefPalates, 

Steaks— Broiled 

Steaks Rolled and Roasted, ... 
Btewed Beefsteaks, 



BEEF. 

47 Beef Kidneys— Btowed, 65 

49 Cake, 56 

49 Heart, 56 

CO Collopa, 56 

50 Brisket of Beef— Stewed, 57 

51 Stew of Ox-Cheek, 57 

53 Beef 6ann(Ier^ 57 

53 A Beef Stew 63 

63 Beef Hashed, 58 

58 To Dress Beef Tongues, 59 

58 To Stew a Tongue, 59 

58 Beefdausagea, 69 

54 Broth 69 

54 Marrow Bones, 59 

54 Tripe, 60 

55 Smoked Beet; 60 

55 PottedBe«A 61 



CHAPTER IV. 



VEAL. 



General Obserrationa, 63 

The Fillet of Veal 63 

Brt«At of Veal— Foroed, 68 

Shoulder of Veal, 68 

T^iin of Veal— Stewed 68 

Loin of Veal 68 

Knuckle of Veal— Stewed, 68 

NeckofVeal 64 

Veal Cutlets. 64 

Cutlets— Curried^ 64 

VealPotPle, 66 



Olives of Veal— Roti, 66 

Veal CoUopa, 66 

Calf's Head, 66 

Calve8'Ea^^ 66 

Boiled Ve»l 67 

Calv««' Foet, 67 

Calves' Ft-et- Fricaseed, 67 

Calf's Heart, 67 

Kidney, 67 

Liver, -68 



CHAPTER V. 

MUTTON. 

Gerieral Remarks. 69 Lc^of Mutton- Roasted, tO 

Hannch of Mutton, 69 Roast Leg of Mutton — Bonad sod 

Saddle of Mttttoo, 70 BtnfllBd, T9 



OSNBRiLL INDEX. 



425 



TAOM. 

Shoulder ofMatton, 70 

Loin or Mutton— dtewed, 71 

Bre&it of Mutton, 71 

A laincxle Muf ton — A Leg, 71 

Mutton Steaks, 71 

Chops— Broiled, 73 

Ch»|Mt— Fritfd, 72 

Cutleta. 72 

Fillet of Mutton, 78 



TAQ9. 

Hash 78 

Huhed Mntum, 78 

Mutton like VenlsoD, 78 

Hftina. 74 

To DreM Mutton Haina, 74 

Mutton Kidneys— Broilud, 74 

Sheep's Tongues — Stewed, 74 

Irish Stew, ... 74 



CHAPTER VI. 



LAMB. 



Oeneral Remnrka, 76 

Forct-qnart^r of Lamb— Hoaated, ... 76 

To Knnst a Leg of Lamb, 76 

To Boil a Leg of Lamb, ■. ... 77 

Btewed Loin of Lamb, 77 



To Stew a Breast of Lamb, 77 

Lamb Stewed with Peas, 77 

SweetbrKads Fricaseed — Brown,... 78 

Lamb Chops, 78 



CHAPTER VII. 



PORK. 



General Remarks, 79 

Boast IMg— Served Whole, 79 

RoastPlK, 80 

A Leg of Pork— Roaated, 80 

Loin of Pork 80 

A Fillet of Pork to resemble Yeal,. 81 

Grlskin of Pork, 81 

Spare Rib of Pork— Roast, 81 

ChlneofPork, 81 

PorkSt«>ak, 81 

Cutlets, 83 

8ausage»— Fine, 83 



Simple Sausages, 82 

Pork Sausages — English, 88 

S(»U8e, 88 

Piff's Head— Baked, . . 88 

Pigs Feet— Stewed 84 

Ilstn Ra^liera, or Slices, 84 

Boili-d Ham 84 

ToBakeailam, 85 

Ham and £e«s— Fried, N( 

To try out Lard, 85 

TomeltLard, 86 

Head Cheeee,. 86 



CHAPTER VII l. 



POULTRY. 



Oeneral Remarks, 88 

RoastTnrkey, 89 

Boiled Turkey 90 

Roa.Ht and Baked Oooee, 91 

To Roast Ducks, 92 

To Holl Duck^ 92 

Stewed Ducks, 92 

Canvass Back Dacka, 92 

Boiled Fowl, 98 



RoastFowl, 98 

To Fricassee a Fowl 94 

Fowl-Bn»lled, 94 

To GrilKJold Fowl, 94 

Chicken Pot Pie. 94 

Chickens Pulled, 95 

Chicken and Turkey Patties, 95 

Salad, 95 



CHAPTER IX 

OAMB, BTC. 



Venison— The Hauneh, 97 

Venison Steaks, 98 

To Hash Venison, 96 

A Shoulder of Venison— Stewed, ... 98 

NeckaodBhonldaror VenlBOD,.... 99 



Pheasants, 99 

Partrid«ea. 99 

Partridge— Broiled, •... 100 

Hares, 100 

Babbits, 100 



420 



OBHKBAL nrSVL 



Boiled lUhhIta. 1<4 

Plg«>n»— R««.Ht.Hl 101 

Pttf»-..ns— BrofltHl 101 

Pigeoos— Stowed, 101 



Rfwat WnA^CAek, Bfilpti, A&, 109 

Small Blnlft— BMIcd. 10* 

Cutlets of Fowl and Game, lui 



CHAPTER X. 

SALT AND FRKSH WATBR FISH. 



Obnerrattont oo Gleaning and Dreaa- 

In^rFW 10« 

rr.i»li C<Kl— Boiled, 106 

Bakfd Oo<U . l'« 

BnilM Kr«sh Old, 106 

Crimped r«Ml, 106 

C«k1^ Head H»6 

0.d Omelet, 1«»6 

Stewed Salt Cod, 107 

OidflAh Balls, l'»7 

TUU lia'K .. lOT 

C.Mlfl*li Toa5t 107 

Butterwl C4Km*h 1 8 

Plain Boiled Salt (rodAsh, lOS 

To Boll Ha.ld«M;ks. 108 

To Stew IlaildockN, lOS 

HaiMock to Bniil, 1<)9 

Herrliiira. H* 

Fr.'sh Ilerrintrs -Broiled, I<i9 

Halll.ut— sStewed, HO 

To Stew L«b!«ters, 110 

To Roast I^ibfittTS, 110 

I^jb^ter — C'llii, 110 

Fre^h Mackerel— Boll, d Ill 

To BpiII Fresh Mackerel, Ill 

Salt Ma.kerel Ill 

Scnllop Oysters. Ill 

R«ia"«t Ovster*. 119 

Bake<L «'ir Sanllopeil Ojstera, 119 

Btenetl OrnU'rs. 119 

Stewed OvMtem — Anotber, 119 

Ojster Fritters, 118 



Fried Ojstcra, 118 

0\'»ter», 118 

Fried 0v5ter^tn garnish Boiled Fbh, 118 

Pickled Oysters, 118 

Oy^terPle, 114 

O'vAter Pancakea, 114 

Ciiowiter. 114 

Fresh Sal mon — Btdleil, 1 1 A 

Salmon— KosAted, IIA 

Collareil SnUiion lift 

Salmon— Broiled, 116 

Sm<>ke<l Salmon, 116 

BakeShmL 116 

Br«»IM Shad 116 

ToBollSharl 11.' 

StiiretiHin— Bndled, 117 

Stiinreon— RoaiKte(l, I17 

StiinriMtn Ciit'et* ill 

Kel « Brea«l Cnimbe<1, 1 17 

FriwlKeK 118 

Boiled Eels, H3 

8t«*we<l Tantog. or Black Ft»h, ... 118 

Tnmt, 11- 

Tnint— Stewecl, U8 

T>irb<iL 119 

Pike and Pickerel 119 

Soft Shell n im!>— StHwwl 119 

Hani Shell Clam»— Fried, 119 

Chowder. 1*20 

FUbSaladst. 12") 

Fish Force Meat Balk, 190 



CHAPTER XI. 



BAUCia. 



General HeinaTloB, 191 

Anchovy Sauoei, 191 

A|i|>Ie Sanoe. 191 

Breail Sanee. 191 

Bread Sance — Another, 19 i 

Sa«ice— Rniwn 199 

Caper Sane for Fish, 199 

Cranlierrv Sauce. 199 

Co.l Sance. 198 

Cream Sanoe, 19'J 

EwSance. 198 

Fresh Pork Sauce, 19S 

O.srllc SnMce. Ii8 

Horscradlih Sauce— Hot. 124 

Lemon Siiuce for Bidled Fowls,.... 194 

Lemon Saiioe for Paddings. 184 

Lamoa OoDiWTa^ 184 



MtntSanee, 19S 

Lf»bst«rSauM. 193 

Mnshroom Sanoe,. 195 

OvsterSanoe. 19.1 

Onion Sanoe. V}( 

Sweet Sawoe. 191 

Piiddlns Sauce. 1i6 

Sauce for Wild Fowls, 1?6 

WliiteSauoe. 1 '7 

Suiierior Sauce, for Plum Pud 'Ins. 127 
Tiimato Sauce, for hot«iro(»Id Meats. ):;7 

WjneSaMce. 1.'7 

lA'hite Sauce, fur Fricasee of FowK 

Ac 123 

Tenison Sanoe, 198 

Faroes and StnffiniN 198 

VoTM Mm* IngndiMt^ IM 



GKNVRAL nrOBZ* 



4srr 



CTTAPTER Xn. 

VEGETARLES, SALADS, ETC. 



PAoa 

General Remarka, 180 

A^pxrairiiH I'^l 

A«perge a La Poia— French Recipe, 181 

Br^-ta. 183 

Broocoh 188 

Orc««'n, or Stringed Beana, 18*2 

Celery 188 

('ithhase nnrl Cauliflower*, 188 

Cabbttffe 8alad, and Co)d Slaw, .... 188 

Ke<l ('Hbbage, 188 

Carrots. 184 

StewM Cacambera, 184 

GreeiiA. 184 

Lettuce, 184 

U«»niiny 185 

Onions 185 

Oiv.T» fVa«». 185 

Pea^ Stewe<l In Croam 185 

Tlow to (^lok Potatoes, 186 

To Boll N«»w PoUto«i9w 18« 

To Koll IriAh Potatoes, 187 

BoasttKl Potatoes, 187 



PAGIL 

potatoes In TTante. 1S7 

Fried or Broiled Potatoes, l«7 

Potatoes Glased, 133 

Potato Rl8«oIea, ijjg 

Potato Rturoiit, ijfi; 

Porrl«lge, or Soup of Potatoes, 18S 

To MsAh Potatoes, 183 

Potato BalK i«9 

Sweet Potatoes— Baked, 189 

Parsnip FrlUer^ i<^ 

PMrAnips, 189 

Ra•l^h«A^ 1H9 

SquaMien, 140 

Gri'en Sweet Com, HO 

Seakale. 140 

Porrldire of Turnips, 140 

Broiled Mushrooms, 141 

Salad 141 

SaUlfy, or Vegetable Oyster, 142 

ToinatOfS, 148 

Tomntoes Raw 148 

SoQthera liod« of Botllng Rloe, .... 148 



aiAPTER XIII. 

POTTED MEATS. 



BeefPotted, 144 

Beef Potted like Venison 144 

Binls Putted — How to Preserve 

them 145 

Cheef«e Potted 145 

Cbicken,or Ham Potted, 145 



Game of all kinds Potted, 144 

l.rf>b>iters Potted, 146 

Partridge Potted, 146 

PigeoiiH P«»tted, 147 

Veal Potted, 147 

Yealson Potted, 148 



CHAPTER XIV. 

PASTE, MEAT, FRUIT, AND FISH PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, TART- 
LETS, PUFFS, ETC. 



OenfTBl Remarks, 149 

Puff Pawte, for Patties, 150 

Very Superior Snet Crust, 150 

Paste f«>r B«irderB of Dishes, 151 

Fanov Paltry, Iftl 

Sandwich Paltry, 151 

Sweet, or Biscuit Cmst, 153 

Beefsteak Pie 158 

Cold Veal, or Chicken Pie, 158 

Fish Pie, 1 8 

GIMet Pie, 168 

Pie Raised, to he Served Hot,... . 158 

Pork Pie**, to Eat Oild, 154 

Veal, or Chleken and Parsley Pie,.. 154 

Family PleCrust, 155 

Hlnoe Pie l.NJ 

Pii«, wlthoat Meat, 156 

Pleib 166 



Lemon Minoe Pies, 156 

Pie^ 157 

Apple Mince Plea, I.'ST 

Pumnkin Pie, 157 

Another ijvs 

Squash Pies, l.^S 

Apple Pie, l.%3 

Dried Apple Pie. 1^8 

Currant and Gooseberry Pies, 159 

Cranberry Pie, or Tarts, 159 

Rhnharb Pie, 1.^9 

Aprlo«»t Pie. . '. 1«0 

Red Sugar Beet Pie, 160 

(%K*oanut Pie 160 

Tfuckle. or Whortleberry Pie, 160 

Tomato Pie. 161 

Blaokberry Pie, 161 

Cream PSsi, 161 



428 



OBNBRAL IKDKZ. 



Bweet Marlborongh PIAi 161 

Plain Cu»Urd Pta, 162 

Cherry Pie, 162 

Lemon Pie, 162 

Lemon Pnddlng, 162 

Lemon Tart, 168 

Pe«;h Pie, 168 

Corn Sutfch Pie, 168 

DIRKCnONS FOR PUDDINGS. 

Baked Apple Padding, 168 

Boiled Af»ple Padding, 168 

Plain Boiled Indian Padding, 164 

(Virn Meal Padding, 164 

Eve*8 Pudding, 164 

Plum Pudding, 164 

EniElish IMum Pudding, 165 

Cocoanat Pudding; 166 

Sunderland Pudding. 165 

Custard Pudding— Baked, 165 

Apricut Pudding, 165 

Batter Pudding 165 

Batter Pud<ling— Boiled, 166 

Batter Pudding, witli or wlthoat 

Sugar, 166 

Barlev Padding, 166 

Bread IMidd ins, 166 

Plain Br«nd Puddinf^-Baked, 167 

Economical Pudding, 167 

Carroc Pnddine, 167 

Custard Padding— Boiled, 167 

Apple Cliarlotte, 167 

Charlotte, 168 

Citron Pudding, 168 

Currant Pudding, 16S 

Cherry Puddi ng, 1 69 

Flour I'addinjr, 169 

Dried Apple Paddtne— Boiled, 169 

Jenny Ltnd Pudding, 169 

Lemon Pudding, 170 

Marrow Pudding— Baked, 170 

Chicken Pnddlnic. 170 

Mutton Pudding, 170 

Muffin Puddlnc. 171 

Oatmeal Pudding, 171 

Orencre Puddlnir, 171 

Ensriisih Chrii^tmas Plam Padding, 171 

Potato Pudding, 172 

DerhTShire Pudding, 172 

PuddinCT in HaRte, 172 

Quakinir Pudding, 172 

Quince Pudding, 172 

PoUU* Puddlnjr. 178 

Almond Pudding— Boiled, 178 

PInin Pudding— Boiled, 178 

Cream Pudding, 178 

Cu<«Urd Pudding, 178 

Custard Pudding— Boiled, 178 

DelinateRlce Pudding, 174 

Roly Polv 174 

German t'oast, 174 



Bloe Pudding, with Currant*, 1 74 

Ground Rice Pudding, 175 

Rice Padding with Flrnlt, 175 

Sago Pudding, 175 

Suet Pudding, [ 175 

Sweetmeat Pudding, ,,,', na 

Tapioca Pudding, 175 

Treacle Padding, 175 

Vermicelli Pudding. 176 

Apple Tapicoa Pudding, 177 

Minute Pudding; 177 

Corn Puddings, 177 

Cracker Pudding, 177 

Apples in Butter, 177 

Corn Starch Pudding, 178 

Summer Snowballs, 178 

S|M>nge Pudding. 179 

Biscuit Pndding, 173 

Indian Pudding— Baked, 179 

Sp<»tted Dick 179 

Indian Pudding— Boiled, 179 

Boiling MuAh ]79 

Apple Dumplings, 179 

Oxford Dumpllng^ 160 

Slmole Desserts for Summer, 1 BO 

Curd 181 

Floating Island, 181 

Teast Dumplings, 181 

Lemon Dumplings, ISI 

Dough Dumplings, 181 

TartU•t^ 181 

Apple Tart. 1S2 

Bird's Ni*t Pudding, ;. . 1S2 

Apricot Tart, ibS 

Apricot Sweetmeat, tor TartSi 1 88 

Cherry Tart, 1S8 

Currant Tart, 188 

Damson Tart, 184 

Gmpe Tart, 1S4 

Gooseberry Tart, 184 

PearTart, 184 

Quince Tart, 184 

Raspberry Tart, 184 

Raspberry Tart, with Cream, 1 S5 

Rhubarb Tart, 185 

Strawberry Tart, 1S5 

Tartlets. 185 

Almtmd Sweetmeats — Yellow, 1 ^6 

To cut out Patty Cakes, Ac, 186 

To Neutralize the Add in Fruit, 

Pies, Ac 187 

Oyster Patties. 187 

M.at Patties. 1S7 

Marrow Pattle^ 1S7 

Turnovers, isd 

Apricot Puflfc, ISd 

A Mixed Jam for Tarta, 183 

Curd Puffs, 188 

Cheese Pnlh, 188 

Meringues, 189 



GSNSRAL INDXX. 



429 



CHAPTER XV. 

PANOAKSS, FRITTERS, MlTrFINS, AND WAFFLES. 



FAOK 

BaekwbMt OakM, 190 

Floar PMnoakea, 190 

CreAin Pancakes, 191 

Pancakes A La Franoalaa, 191 

Indian Qrtddle GakM, 191 

Apple Fritters, 191 

Kioe Panoakes, 198 

Apple Fritters— Exoellent, 19S 

Cream Fritter^ 193 

Orster Fritters, 11^ 

pyJD FTttt4in, 193 



CefnOvstCTS, 198 

Apple Fritters, 198 

Fritters aa Blano, 198 

Oranfse Fritters, 198 

OystiT Fritters, 194 

Mafflna, 194 

Indian Meal MDfnn^ 194 

Flonr Waffles— Raised, 194 

Quick Waffles, 195 

RioeWaffles» 196 



CHAPTER XVI. 

EGGS AND OMELETS. 



ExfES— Boiled, 196 

E^— Poached, 196 

ToDrem£gg^ 19T 

Scoteb Eggs, 19T 

Omelet, 197 

Omelet aa Natural, 197 



Onion Omelet, 196 

Omelet, with If am, Aa, 193 

Omelet Fritters, 198 

Omelet Souffle. 198 

A Simple Hweet Omelet, 199 

Apple Souffle, with Rica, 199 



CHAPTER XVm. 

BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. 



To make Butter, 300 

preserve Butter for Winter, .... 300 
make Yellow Butter in Winter, 301 

Freshen Salt Butter, S"! 

Cliu-iry Butter, 201 

Cold Butter fi>r Tea, or Breakfiut, ... 201 

Mf Ited Butter, without boiling, 302 

To make Cheese, 202 

The best Gheeee in the World, 203 

To prepare Rennet, 203 

To keep Chee8«^— English Method,.. 208 

Apricot Cheette, <... 804 

Artificial Cheese, 804 

Cream, 304 



Cheese Cream and Marmalade, .... 905 

as Iced Kutter, 809 

Cream, Iced, 805 

Damson Cheese, 305 

Cheese— Fresh, 306 

Fritters, 306 

Puffs 806 

Roasted, 806 

RlceChee«e, 307 

Sage Chet*«», 20T 

Cheese Tossted, or Welsh Rabbit,.. 307 

Toast, 30T 

Pot Cheese, 307 



CHAPTER XVIIL 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, 

Custards, 308 

Apple Cnstard, 24)8 

Almond Custard 809 

CuBtards— Boiled, 209 

Soft CuKtards. 3<'9 

Custards— Baked, 209 

Cn>am Custard, 2i>9 

Custard— Plain 210 

Cherry Custard, 310 

Lemon Outtard, 910 



JELLIES, MARMALADES, ETC. 

Orange Custard, 910 

Kioe Costard, without Cream, 311 

CREAIfS. 

Apricot Cream 911 

Omnsre Cream, 811 

Ice Cream 811 

Whipped Creaip 318 

Excellent Crgim, 819 

Chocolate— Whipped Cream, 919 

Obarrjrloe Cream,... « 918 



430 



OKNBRAL INDEX. 



FA6V. 

Camnt Tee Cream, 318 

CreAin 218 

OiKJucberry Cream, 218 

]L«mon Ice Cream, 218 

Strawberry Cream 214 

Ice Cream, 214 

Cream TI*»ty, 214 

8now Crenm 214 

To keep Cream 214 

Cream na Naturel, 214 

Pine Apple Cream 215 

Raspberry ami Currant Cream, .... 215 

Cream Strawberriea, 215 

Rhenish Crenm, 215 

Vanilla Cream, 215 

G«K>v-l»errv Fotil, 216 

Apple Fool 216 

Trllle, 216 

ICBS. 

Iclnar for Cakes, 21T 

Anotlier, 213 

Almonil Ioln« for Bride Cake, 318 

Icfns for Tarts, 218 

Currant Ice, 218 

Pine Apple Ice, 2 8 

FreAb Strawberry loe Cream, 219 

Cherry Ice 219 

CurrahtA to Ice, 219 

Chariotto Kusne, 219 

Currant loe Cream, 220 

Ice^ 320 

JELLIEB. 

Apple Jelly— Clear, 220 



PAO« 

Apple Jelly 221 

Qnlnce Jeflv, «il 

Apricot Jeliy 231 

Lemon Jelly, 821 

Strawberry, Raspberry, and Black- 
berry Jelly, 221 

Cranberry, Grape, and Currant Jel- 
ly 232 

Currant Jtlly, 222 

Clicrrv Jelly, 228 

MoftS^elly, 328 

Calve's F«»otJelly, 238 

Another, 921 

Lemon Jellv. 224 

Tapioca Jelly, 234 

Baffo Jelly 2-25 

Ratafia without Llqnor or Syrup,.. 2i^ 

Wine Jelly, 235 

Coloring for Jellies, Cakes, Ac, ... . 226 

MARMALADES. 

Marmslwie of Apples 236 

Tran8[tarent Marmalade, 327 

Apric«»t Martnalarle, 237 

Cherry Marmalade, 237 

Currant Marmalade, 33S 

Oraiifre Marmalade, 23S 

Quince Marmalade. i2S 

Raspberry Marmalade, 229 

BLANCMANGE. 

Rioe Blancmanice. 229 

Corn Stareh Blancmange, 329 

Blancmange, 28J 



CHAPTER XIX. 



CONFECTIONBRY, PRBSKRV^BD FRUITS, BTO. 



To Clarify Snsar, 282 

Colore<l 8ni»rs for Ornamenting, . . . 288 

Gre-n Siijrar, 288 

Sugar Pa-^te 238 

To ('anly Fruit, 2J» 

Ornamental Fro-ting, 384 

I^eiiioh Oariitv. 284 

M olaswes Candy 384 

To l're«erve Apricots, 284 

ApricotH in Brandy 285 

T«» Preeerve Peachem 285 

Golden Pippinis 286 

ToBake Apple* Whole, 286 

A i»ple« Pre«*erve<l in Siioes, 2:J6 

]lottle«1 Asparagua, 2'^ 

llarherrles. 287 

Barherri*^ for Targets, 287 

Bl«(Miit of Preserved Fruits, and 

Sweetmeats, 387 

Blni^k Top!*. 287 

Cherries In Brandy, 21% 

Dried without Sugar. 2 iS 

ProM'rved Dry in Buncbea, 333 

toOamly, 289 

ti>KMp, 289 



K*^* 



•*A« 



Black Carrant Jam, 289 

Currant Jam of all Colt»r^ 289 

Currants Pre^rved, 340 

forTarts, 240 

White Citron PreMrved, 340 

Dried Damsons 240 

To ke»«p DaniMinn, 241 

Pre-erve Fruits for Tartji, Jko,.. 241 
Gherkin!^ for Salads, or PickitMU .. . 241 

Qoos4-l->errieA Preserved, 241 

Go<»!»eberry Jam,. 242 

Peach Jam, 312 

Grar»o« Preserved In Clusters, 2 12 

Green Gase^ .242 

Green Oagce— Dried, . 248 

Jam 248 

To keep Oranges or Lemons, for 

Pndiling\ 248 

To Pre9<>rve Nectarinea, 348 

Pears— Baked 3t4 

to Keep. 34* 

Jiirgonetle, 244 

Preserved, 245 

Peaebea— Preserved, 945 

PUunf-Candied, 94« 



/•,••• «»«*»»«ji»« 



SnmUL TNDXX. 



431 



PAom 

Qatnof— r i r f e r led, 946 

toK<»ei>. 247 

Bttipb«nie»— T<iK«M>p MT 

RMpN»ny Jam, 247 

Ajiple Snow 248 

PlovAppltfft, S48 



Qnlnocn. *>r the Tlihle, 24S 

Rhiiharh — Prfwprvoil 248 

Blh<.rl»n Ornbjt— Preserved, 249 

Sirawlierry Jam 249 

Strawbt'iTles— Pr«MM»rve<l In Wtne,. 249 

Preserved Whole,... 249 

Tomato Figs, aao 



CHAPTER XX. 

PICKLES. 



Atpentenn, 2.18 

JWann— French 2-^2 

Cabbage— Red, 2ft« 

White, 2.MI 

r<»Wjr. 258 

Cnm'mbprft— Yunng. S.'SS 

Ka-^t I n.l la Pickle, 2M 

Orpen Tomato, 2M 

I^emon^ 254 

Mn«llnlom^ 254 

MiiAhro«int Kctcbop, 255 

Nastartion, 235 



Neat's Tongue, 2,VS 

Onh.na, 25« 

ManK>ies. 255 

Nanurtlons, 257 

Peachea, 257 

Peppery 257 

Pin ma— To Pickle like OllTee. 2.^7 

Pliima. 253 

§nlno4«, 259 
omato Ketchup 258 

Walnut Ketcbnp. 258 



CHAPTER XXI. 

CAKBS, BUNS, BISCUIT, BREAD, ETC. 



BH)n1«1fe Information for Making 

and Rati Ins rake\ 2«0 

Crust, fthcirt and Klcli, 26-2 

Shor% 262 

Apple Cake, im 

Aunoud Drnps 262 

Small Cakea, 268 

Iclnjr. 26? 

Banbury Cakea, 268 

Ba^a, 264 

BH.Ih Cake, 2<V4 

Another. 2''>5 

Br.'ftkfM*t, or Tea Cake^ Hot, 265 

Wll^tf^ 265 

Dli't Bri'a<1 266 

BMtt«*r Cakee. 2f?6 

Bl'«c»ilt of any kind of Fruit. 268 

I'ht'OMTakea, 266 

Another. 267 

CtteeSfotkea— Commiin, , . 26T 

B«Mr..n Cream Cakea. 267 

CMmfrv Cn>am Cakes, 26S 

Rich Crpam Cake, 268 

Cream Cake, 268 

Crtimi>eta, 9i\S 

Clin « ako 269 

Cr'.-iin <^ip(Jako, 269 

r..n\ Cjike. «/69 

Chee:iucake— A pp?e. 269 

Airiiond 2-9 

Citron, 270 

Lemon, 270 

Orangev 970 

.t:t.,,„. m 



Cinnamon Cukes, 271 

('nrrant Cakes. 2TI 

Carawaf Cakes, 271 

Cunl Cake% 271 

C<M^kle^ 272 

Craokera. 27*1 

Biiitpr Cracke^^ 272 

l)ropCake^ 272 

Another 27:< 

Rve Drop Cakes, 27-3 

Hmla Doiiirbnuta, ¥78 

^>outrhn^t^ 278 

DoiisrhnntM with Sugar, 274 

Criilh-m. 274 

Fnwtlnjf ft»r Cuke, 2^5 

Fnilt ('ake— Rich 275 

Fried Cak«% 276 

Family Cake, 276 

Oinser ^*nap^ 276 

Olnuer Nuts, 276 

Ginirerhread 277 

Ilanl Olnff<*rbread 277 

S«»fl OlnfferhriHid 2T7 

NIre Oinirerbn>ad 277 

Oinffi«rlirpa<l with Fruit, 273 

Sugar Olntrerhri'ad, 273 

OooHebfrry Cake, 27S 

Honey Cake 'il-^ 

In'Han Break fa<t Cnki'S 27S 

Indian Light BlMult, '270 

JumhU*a 279 

Johnny Cakes, 279 

KlSMS. 880 

M!il*"Ml^ -T*. •.••••••• ••••\;» fW 



432 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAOS. 

A Lifrht Cake to Bake In Gape,. . . . 2S0 

One, Two, Threes Vwir Cake, 2^ 

Thin Pound Cake, 281 

Barnard Cake, 281 

I^^mnn Cake, 281 

MacaroonaL 281 

Spiced 281 

New Year'a Cookiea, . 282 

Ponnd Cake, 292 

Pound Ciikra, Plum or Plain, 282 

A Good Plam Cake, S8S 

nderCake, 288 

Rich Plum Cake, 283 

Weddinp Cuke, 284 

Qneen'fl Cake, 284 

Railroad Cake, 284 

Rice PnlTa. 284 

Rfisph«»rrv Cakea, 284 

Rout Cakt«, as.'S 

RireCa^e 285 

Rice Pound C*ke, 285 

8av«v('Hke 2S6 

Sponiro ('ake. 286 

A Small Sponge Cake, 286 

BiKmse C'ake 2**7 

Rich 8i>on;{e Cake, 287 

Sugar Dn»pB, 287 

Cake^ 288 

8l*edCake^ 2«i8 

Bhrewsberry Cake, 288 

Hon Cake In Little Pans, 2SS 

Soda Cake, 288 

Spice Cake, 288 

Twelfth Oake, 28» 

TeaCakrti, 289 

Cream Tea Cake^ 290 

Plain Tea Cai.ea, 290 

Washington C«ke, : 290 



Mnfflns, 200 

Hard Waffles, 290 

Wafers, 291 

Ratafias, 291 

Bnna. 291 

Bath Buns, 292 

Buns — Common, 292 

Buna— Plum, 292 

Seed Buns, V98 

Busk 298 

BKRAD, BISCUIT, YKAST, ETC. 

Wheat Bread 99S 

Excellent Bread 294 

Bostiin Brown Bread, 295 

Premium Bread 295 

Bmwn Qrahara Bread 296 

Rich Corn Bre«d ?96 

Bt>ston Rye aud Indian Bread. 2^6 

Saffo Bread, 2?6 

Diet Bread 297 

Potato Bread, 2i'7 

Rice Brrad 297 

Rye Breati 297 

Buttered Loaves, 298 

French Rolls, 298 

Butter Bi!«ouits. 29S 

So<Ia Biscuits 299 

Potato Bi9cuit^ 2I9 

Baker's Rolls, 299 

Tea Rusks, »iO 

Sally Lunn, 8(K) 

YcMt. 800 

Milk Yeast, 801 

Potato Teast, 801 

Teast, 801 

Yeast Cakes, 80S 



CHAPTER XXII. 

COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, COCOA. 



Coffee, 808 

A Substitute for Cream for Coffe«,.. 804 

Coffee to Roast, 8(i4 

Milk 805 

Cream, 805 

An Creme, 805 

to rive the Favor of Yantlla,. 805 

loe a LltaUenn^ 805 



Coffee Frothed, or Whipped, 80M 

Jelly 8<6 

Choeolate, 806 

Dropi^ 8('7 

Bon-Bons, 807 

Tea, 8<»7 

Cream, SOS 

lott, 809 



CHAPTER XXIIL 



HOME MADE WINES. 



Apple Wine, 809 

Apricot Wine, 810 

Balm Wine, 810 

Birch Wine,.. 811 

BlaokbenyWine, 811 



Cherry Wine, 812 

Clary Wine, 81i 

Currant Wine, 818 

Damson Wine, 814 

Elder Wina, U4 



GENERAL INDEX. 



433 



PA6B. 

Ginger Wine^ 814 

Gooseberry Wine, 814 

Grape Wlno, 815 

Mountain Wine, 81ft 

PtfBoip Wine, 810 



PAOV. 

Basin Wine, 8Ift 

Raspberry Wine, 816 

Walnut Wine, 816 

Baspberry Vinegar, 817 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

LIQUORS, BEVERAGES, ETO. 



Cherry Brandy, 818 

Caplllaire, 818 

Hippoc^a^ 819 

Lemonaile, 819 

Mead 819 

FronOnac, 820 

Sack 820 

Noycan 820 

Orang^eade, 821 

Punch, 321 

Millc, 821 



Batafla of font Fmiti^ 821 

Bhrub, 823 

Currant Shrub, 822 

Lemon Shrub, 822 

Wholesome Beverage, 822 

Spring Beer, 823 

Gln{:er Beer, 828 

W hite Spruce Beer, 824 

Harvest Drink 824 

Cream Soda, 824 



CHAPTER XXV. 

PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 



Apple Water, 825 

Egg Gruel, 825 

Arrow Root, 825 

A Nourishing Jelly, 826 

Bet-fTea. 826 

Toast and Water, 826 

W aters for Cooling Draughts, 826 

Water Gruel, 826 

Milk Porridge, 82T 



WineWher, 82T 

Chicken, Beef, or Veal Broth, 827 

Hot Lemonade, 828 

Bice Gruel, 823 

EggCream, 828 

Caudle, 823 

The Cook's Tabli of Wkiootb and 

MxABURsa, 829 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



Blacking, 880 

To know gooil Flour, 880 

Clean Decanters, 881 

Cleanlnc Floor Cloths, 881 

G«KKi Sijavinu Soap, . ^ 881 

To Ki'ep tlio Hands Soft, 881 

Prevent Iron Kustlng 831 

Clean Turkey Carp«ts, 882 

Clean Water Casks, 8 i2 

Detect Whiiinjr or Chalk in Flour 882 
A Substitute for White Oil Paint,. . 8iJ2 
To uke Smell from Fresh Paint, . . . SiiS 

Cement for Iron Ware, 88.3 

A cheap and durable Cement, 8^ 

Black Ink, 838 

Beeswax, 834 

Fences. 384 

Hard Cement for Seams, 884 

To clean China, 885 

clean Plate, 8.% 

clean Oil Paintings, 835 

Economy In Fael, 885 

s 



Good Vinegar, «... 886 

Older Vinegar 886 

To Blacken Stone Chimney-pieces, . 886 

Tracing Paper, »36 

Cem«»nt for Iron Fines, 8.*^7 

To Extract Marking Ink, &ST 

Prevent cold Feet in Bed, 887 

Economical ase of Nutmeg, 887 

To Extiniruiah a Fire, 888 

Frost-bitten Fruits and Vegetables, 838 
To Prevent Teakettles coating with 

Lime, 833 

Furniture Polish 838 

To make Hard Water Soft, >. &S8 

Herbs for Drying 889 

To Clarify H<mey 88? 

Separate Wf x ftrom the Comb, . . 840 

Prevent Ink from Freezing, ... . 840 

Make Suir Carpets Last, S-tO 

Cold Soap, 840 

Soap, 840 

To Sew SUff Cloth Eocdly, 840 

28 



i34 



OXinERAL INDKX. 



PAOI. 

To oleftn Xtityes. 841 

Bra<4 and Copper Cooking Utensils, S41 
To Rellere the Breath from Onlon^ Sll 

Eseence^ 841 

Butter, 841 

To Preserve Oamoln Hot Weather, 841 
Rtts^lan Method of Preserving Fiah, 843 

Starch 843 

White Satin 843 

To c)ean Gold or Sliver Laoe, 843 

Remove Raet fh>m Ste^ 843 

Black Ball 843 

Cemf'nt for Corked Bottles, 848 

To Prevent Mould In Books, Ac,.. 848 

Destroy Anta, 848 

PorKIlllni? Rata, 844 

To keep Bugafk-om Vines, 844 

Soap, 844 

Isinglass. 844 

Iron Spots on Marble, 844 

Ink Spots, ; 845 

Oflfenaive Smoll^ 845 

To Preserve E»5gs, 845 

Perf^ime Linen, 845 

RatsandMlce, 84« 

To Restore Stale Beer, 846 

Rice Milk, 84« 

To take Stains out of Silk 84« 

Extract Grease fW>m Silks, &a,. 846 
A Substitute for Milk or Cream,. . . 847 

To take Milk from Cream, 847 

Preserve Milk, 847 

Ventilation 847 

Composition for Colored Drawings^ 84S 

A Varni<«h to Color Baskets, 848 

Court Plaster, 84S 

To Renew Bread and Cake, 849 

Prraerve Cheese fkvm Insects, . . 849 

Blue Ink, 850 

Bed Ink 850 

Indelible Ink, . 850 

Hard Soap SfSO 

To make Callooea Wash well, 851 

Fire and Water-proof Cement, .... 851 

To Prevent Moths, 851 

TlieRedAat, 851 

Utility of Nettles, 851 

UseM Knife-board, 853 

To Preserve Flowers In Water,. . . . 853 

keep a Stove Brifrht, 853 

Whiten the Hands, 853 

Remove Marks ft-om a Tahle^ • . 858 

Clean Brass Ornaments, 858 

Mend Crockery, 858 

Petrify Wood, a^S 

StopaLeak, dr>4 

Paste, 854 

Cheap Lemon Flavor, 854 

To clean Kid Glove^ 854 

Wash Woolens. 854 

A VarnlMifiir Glas\ 855 

To Give Luster to Silver, 856 

Wash-leather Under-walstooata, ... 855 

German Silver, 805 

Windsor Soap, 806 



PAA« 

To Bleach Linen, 856 

To Restore Linen that has been 

SU1 ncd 856 

To take Stains ft-om Mahofrany. .... 8r>6 
Restore colors taken out by Acids 857 

Make Whitewash «i7 

Ont-honses and Cellars, 857 

Curlinsr Fluid for the Hair, 857 

To Drive away B«dbag^ 8.^3 

Destroy Flle^ 853 

Drive away Flea% 853 

Polish Furniture, 853 

Render Boots and Shoes Water- 
proof, 853 

Kill Weeds In Gravel, ace, &*» 

Temper Earthen-ware, 859 

Clean Paint 859 

Remove Lime Spots, 859 

Take out Fruit Spots, 860 

Clean Black Silks. 860 

* Take Mildew out of Linen, 860 

Clean Silks, 860 

Remove Stains from Bilk, 861 

Raise the Pile of Velvet, 861 

Remove Grea.^ from Cloth,. . . . 861 

Stain Harp Strinirs. 861 

Polish Varnished" Furniture, .... 863 

Japanese Cement, 863 

To Render Cloth Rain-proof; 863 

Perfumed Bass. 86i 

To Make Tough Beef Tender. 868 

Escape ft^m a House on Fire, . . 868 

Extinguish a Fire. 868 

Purify Water ftir Drinking. .... 868 

Purify Muddy Water, 864 

Clean Looklng-glasSM, 864 

Preserve Gilding, 864 

Cl<>an Lamps, 865 

Directions for Carpets, 865 

To keep Silk , 866 

Sweep Carpets, ' 866 

Cheap Carpeting, 867 

To Fasten the Handles of Knives 

and Forka, 867 

Night Chairs, 867 

Tea. 867 

Swallow's Nest, . 867 

Borax Washing, Recipe, 869 

Washing made Easy, 869 

To clean Harness, 869 

Protect Children flrom Burning, 870 

Exercise after Meals, 870 

To keep Hops. 870 

Volatile Soap for Removing Grease, 

&a 870 

To makft wholesome Table Beer, . . 870 
Prevent Beer growing Flat,. . . . 871 

Clean Bed Ticks, 871 

Pri'vent Lamp^ Smoking. 871 

Cure Pork, 871 

Cure Hams— Vinslnia, 8T3 

Salt Beet 813 

Smoke Hams, ... .. ......... 878 

Keep Hams, 8TS 

Remove Flies, 878 



GKNERAL INDEX. 



43d 



RITLES FOR OOLORINO. 

General Dlreetlona, 874 

BkyBlue, 874 

Lilac, 874 

Black, 874 

Lemon 876 

Royal Pnrple, 875 

Slate. 875 

Scarlet, 875 



PAom. 

A Bright ICadder, ;.... 87« 

Green, 876 

Straw Color, and Yellow, 87« 

Nankin Color, 877 

Rose Color 877 

To Dye Straw Bonneta Blaok, 877 

Dye White Gloves Purple, 877 

Bleaoh Btimw Hata, 87S 



CHAPTER XXVn. 



THE ORCHARD, GARDEN, ETC. 



ToPmne Trpe^ 879 

Prevent Gamming in Frnlt 

Treejv, 879 

Destroy Insecte. 880 

Renovate old Apple Trees, 8S0 

Preserve Roota, 880 

CuUl vate Rhubarb, 881 

lllve Bee^ 881 

Make Ifpns T^y Perpetaally,... 888 

For Fattening liens, 8S2 

To Destroy the B<»e Miller 88'2 

Preserve Bees fh)m Worms, Sao^ 882 

Wash for Fnilt Tre«» 8R2 

To Destroy Caterpillars, 888 



To Preserve Flower Seeds, 8^ 

Keep Grapes, 888 

Preserve Peaches, 884 

Keep Cranberries, 884 

Preserve Carrots, Parsnips, &o., 884 

Preserve 8eed^ 8S5 

Destroy Moss on Trees, 8S5 

Drive Bnjfs from VIne^ 885 

Keop Bo>8e Bags from Grape 

Vinea, 8S5 

Increase the quantity of Cream, Ss'S 

Mildew on Gooseberries, 866 

To Keep Apples Fresh a Year, .... 886 



CHAPTER XXVm. 

MEDICINAL RECIPES, ETC. 



Cautions In Visiting Slok-rooms, . . . 8S7 
For Children Troubled with Worms 887 

Fits cAused by Worms, 887 

Foul Teeth 887 

To Clean Teeth, 888 

Make the Teeth White, 8«^3 

WanVs Paste for the Plle^ 8S8 

Cataplasm to Hasten Suppuration,. 8S9 

To Prevent Colds In Children,.. . 889 

A Simple Cure for the Croup, 889 

Sore Throat, 890 

Cough Syrups, 890 

For a Cough 890 

Children's Coufrhs, 891 

To Prevent Contagion, 891 

Volatile Liniment, 891 

To Cure a Wen 891 

Treatment of MeasIe^ 892 

To Prevent the Hair from Falling 

out, 899 

Starch Injection 893 

White Bean Poultice, 892 

A Simple Cure for Dysentery, 892 

For Summer Complaints^ 898 

To Cure a Felon 898 

Cure for Headaches, 898 

Colds, 898 

Colds in the Head, 894 

Bage Tea, 894 

Nose Bleeding, 894 



To kin Insects in the Ear, 894 

For having Swallowed a Wasp, .... 895 

Corns, 895 

To Prevent the Lock-jaw, 8y5 

Arnica for Bruises, Aci, 895 

For a Sprain, 895 

Preservation of the Teeth, 896 

To Remove Scurvy from the Teeth, 896 

The Teething of Children, 896 

Cure for Cancer, 897 

Poison of Rattlesnakes, 897 

Tincture for Diseased Gams, 897 

Mad Dogs— A Preventive, 897 

To Prevent Wounds Mortifying,.., 898 

Cure Poison on the Hands, 893 

Shortness of Breath, 898 

Relief for Asthm^ 89S 

Gargle for Sore Throat,, 893 

Balsam of Honey, 899 

Simple Mlxtnro for Bowel Com- 

p1alnt^ 899 

For aBum, 899 

Salve for Bruises,...; 899 

Opodeldoc *K) 

Cure for the Piles, 400 

For Small Outs and Woands, 400 

Advantasres of Bathing, 400 

Dyspeplio Lye, 401 

Sir A. Cooper's Chilblain Liniment, 401 
Bcald Head in Inftota, 401 



436 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAG& 

Colombo Root and G!fi|rpr, 401 

A Simple Medicine fur Dyspepsia,. 403 
For tJie Quinsj, 402 

WbooplDg Cough, 4<I2 

Another. 408 

A g04Ki Plaster for a Cough, 408 

Godfrey's Cordial 4 8 

Precautions against Consamption,. 408 
Remedy for having drank too much 

Cold Water. 408 

For Ague and Fever, 4(4 

the Diarrhea. 4<H 

Horseradish for Uoarsenefls, 404 

For Indigestion 404 

Ilronchitia, 405 

Turnip Syrup for a Cold 406 

Foreign Bodies in the Throat, 405 

Tincture of Rhubarb, 406 

of Ginger, 406 

Fnmigating Powder, 406 

Itcii, 406 

Kheamatism 4<>6 

The Shower-bath, 40T 

Dr. Boerhaaye's Rulea, 407 

POI90N8 AND THEIR ANTII>0TIE8. 

Adda. 40T 

AIc<iho1, 408 

AlltRliea, 408 

Ammonia. 408 

Arsenic, 408 

Belladonna, or Night Ilenbane, .... 408 

Charcoal, 4(« 

Corrosive Sublimate, 408 

Cretisote, 409 

Lead, A 9 

Mushrooms, 409 

Nitrate of Silver (Lunar Canstic),.. 409 

Nitrate of Potash, or Saltpetre, 409 

Opium, or Laadanam, 409 

Oxalic Acid, 409 

Pru.««ic Acid 409 

Snake Bites, 4e&, 4t0 

Stings fkx>m Bees, 410 

Tartar Emetic, 410 

Tobacco, Hemlock, Nigtatshadei 

Spurred Bye, dec, 410 

Wlilte VltrioL. 410 

MrDIOIXAL PaSPABATIOMB AlTD 

Herbs, which every Family 
ought to keep on hand, 411 



PACK 
QUALtTTES OP POOD. 

Beef, 413 

Veal,...; 418 

Mutton, 41S 

Lamb, 412 

HouseLamb, 419 

Pork 418 

Smoked Hams, 418 

Bacon, 418 

Goat's Flesh, 418 

Venison, ■ 418 

The Blood of Animals, 418 

Milk, 418 

Cream, 414 

Butter, 414 

Cheese, 414 

Fowls, 415 

Turkey^ 415 

WlldFowls, 415 

Eggs, 415 

Fish, , 416 

Oysters and Cockles, 416 

Muscles and Periwlnklee, 416 

Bread, 416 

Pastry 417 

Oats, Barley, and Rice, 417 

Pdtatoea, 417 

Green Peas and Beans, 417 

Salads 413 

Spinach 419 

Asparagus, 418 

Artichokes, 418 

Cabbages, 413 

Turnipa, 418 

Carrots, 418 

Parsnips, 418 

Parsley, 419 

Celery, 419 

Onions, Garlic, and 3haIot^ 419 

Radbbea, 419 

Apples, 419 

Pears, 419 

Cherries, 419 

Plums, 419 

Peaches, 419 

Apricots, 4:M 

Gooseberries and Oorranta, 4M 

Strawberries, 430 

Cucumbers, 4!ii0 

Tea,.... .'. 420 

Coffee, Chooolato, 4^1 



The Latest and Best— A Now Book for Housewives. 



PRACTICAL AMERICAN COOKER! 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 

BY MISS E. M. HALL. 

One Volnme^ 436pp. 12iuo« PricOftl 00» 

This work has been prepftred with much nareand well dlrect<^d attention. It conttk-M 
the resoltB of experience, and will be found on insi^ectlim to be all that w essential, eitljer 
lor the most simply or elaborately fUrnished table. The Keoipee are carefully prepared 
and conveniently daaslflod and arranged. 

The Cookery contains 97 3 Keclpcs, relating to erery department of the subject, aod 
Is illustrated with 44 appropriate Engravings. 

The notnMiie JBeonomy oont&inA 303 Recijios and recent important information 
relating to the Garden, the Orchard, Uie Wardrobe, the Laundry, and lo all those house- 
hold and domestic affairs upon which instruction is sought by the thoutfbtfUl and care* 
talcing mistress. This department of the book, so seldom to be found in works of the 
kind — we deem a convenient and important feature. A Cook-book has become a house- 
hold hand-book, and as such is frequently consulU'd, By embracing in the same volume 
the most Important information relating to the general subject and to the details of house- 
hold management, the publishers feel that tliey have supplied a want which will be ap- 
preciated by American nousewives. 

OPINIONS OF REVIEWERS. 

This Is the latest, as it is also one of the best and most complete books of practical do- 
mestic oookery that has ever been published in this country. It contains over 1,800 re- 
cipes, relating to every department, and illustrated with about fifty instructive engr»> 
Tings. The work has been prepared with great industry, care, and Judgment; the re- 
cipes are for the mo^t part simple, easy, and of great varietv. To housekeepers this work 
will be an invaluable vade mecum^ including as it does important instructions for the 
management of the garden, the orchard, the wardrobe, the laundry, and every variety of 
domestic affalra.— ftosfori AUiiB. 

This work will prove an invaluable aid to young housekeepers, and In fkct old ones 
may glean some excellent hints from it Instructions for the behavior of guest, hci^ 
ancf servant— rules for carving and serving, besides recipes for cooking all kinds of 
dishes. In this fast age, when young ladles are educated for the drawing-room Instead 
of the kitchen, when housekeeping has become a vulgar employment, and economy aad 
oare are obsolete words, such a book is greatly needed. — Gen&ca Courier. 

Here Is another book for housewives, and we should think it a yvij good one. Tb« 
recipes have been selected and arranged with much care, and what la better still, are th« 
results of experience. — OUve Branch. 

True economy should induce every good housewife to purchase this work. — BotUm 
Trangcript. 

This is a valuable and truly useful work, comprising everything needAiI to be known 
In the domestic economy, essential to the comfort, convenience, and enjoyment of a fiun* 
liy. No female should be without a copy. — Omoego Palladium. 

It is an Americcm book, and this fact alone is enough to commend It to the g x>d senit 
of everv American woman, in preference to the garlic-scented French style of oookery. 
Everything in the shajM of cookins, fW)m a roast turkey down to the most ddlcate pre- 
serve, may be learned fW>m Miss UalPs book. — Chrii. Secretary. 
\ In ftiUness of material, in happy and simple arrangement, and In proftiseness of illns- 
itration, we have as yet seen no book for housewives which claims to be equal to Miaa 
Hall's book in interest and value. — American SpeekUor. 

We scorn all bribes, but admit we should like to dine with Miss Hall, or any one of 
her proficient pupils. Her book has effected us even to tears; had we been hungry as 
erst we have been, it would have been overpowering. In all candor, we believe this to 
be a very good book. It contains directions for carving, preparation of beverages, medi* 
linal and other, and a sreat variety of very useful information.— J\r. Y. Criterion. 

Sold by all Booksellers. Mailed, po9t-paUi^ to any address, upon receipt of piiotw 



C. Bl SAZTON, MHJiER 



& Co., Pabliahero, 
S6 Park Revo^ JTecs Ibrfe 




00fe5 fax tong ITaWes. 



♦»# 



L WOMAN'S MISSIOV. 

Qift Book for Toung Ladies. 

Or Woman's Mission ; being Familiar Letters to a Toang Lady oo 
. her Amusements, Employments, Studies, Acquaintances, male and 
female. Friendships, <&c., by Dr. Wk. A. Aloott, frontispiece on 
steel. Muslin, 807 pp., 12mo., 75 cents. 

CONTENTS LEADING HEADS. 

General Views and Remarks ; Spirit of Woman's Mimlon; Datlos to Henelf ; Amnte- 
ments; Employmenta; Stadies* Bo4lk^ Ac: Moral Character: Associates in the Fam- 
ily ; Associates bey ond the Family ; Mere Acquaintance ; Gorrpspondents; Doing Good 
with the Pen; Particular FriendshiDs: Society of the other Sex; Friendship with the 
other Sex; QaallflcHtlons for Friendship; Physical Quallfleattons; Seven Plain Rules; 
Disappointments ;Doinff(}ood ; Palling out of the Fire; Associated Effort: Chnrch and 
Sabbath School; Trath, Jostioe, and Mercy; Labors among the Sick; Self-danlal; Self- 
•aoriaoe. 

n HEALTH. BEAXJTT, AlTD HAFPIHESS. 

Young Woman's Book of Health. 

By Dr. Wm. A. Aloott, 812 pp., 12mo., Muslin, 76 cents. 

The Tonng Woman's Book of Health, fhim the pen of Dr. Wm. A Aleott, convey^ 
In simple and untechnical languaire, an amoant of medical Information which cannot 
but be of eminent service to those to whom it is addroesed. The main ohjtnst of the 
Tolame is to state the means of pr^Mrving one's health, rather than the way to hant 
op one's health when lost Doctor Alcott's reputation Is well known in this country, 
and we feel satisfied that not only yoans females, but women of all ages, will find this — 
his last book-— eminently Instrnc^ve and suggestive.— Wtttem ChrUMan Ad«. 

m. WHAT WOMANMAT AHB SHOULD BE. 

Toung Lady's Book. 

Or, Principles of Female Education, by Rev. Wm. Hobxbb, frontia- 
piece on steel, 801 pp. 12mo., Muslin, 75 cents. 

OaNTXNTS. 

Chapter I — Woman as a Human Being; Chapter 11 — Woman as a 
Social Being; Chapter III — Moral Education; Chapter IV — Intel 
lectual Education ; Chapter V — Physical Education; Chapter VI — 
Domesti*') Education ; Chapter VII — Civil Education ; Chapter VIII — 
OrnHmental Education. 

Ttie foregoing; works are eminently popular. Thev should occupy a place In the eab1> 
net of every voung lady In the land, as their counsiHs will always be found reliable, and 
their Instructions {MtSM^as a charm which renders them not only useful, bat very sgreea* 
tie and entertaining cumpaniuits. 

Bold by all Booksellers. Mailed, pott-paidt to any address, npon receipt of prloe^ 

C. AC SAXTON, MIUiER & Co, Publisher^ 

85 Park R«w^ yew Tort, 



"^mh {qx ^0ung ^en. 



Toung Man's Book. 



Or, Self-Education, by Rev. Wm. Hobmrb, frontispiece on Steel, 291 
pp. 12ino., Muslin, 16 cents. 

A onnstsnt and peneveiing determlffatlon to tread in the steps whloL natnrallj lead 
• 9 honor. —t/. ^. Adarru. 
• 

We are f[\»t\ to mo snrh books lannohed ont npon the sea of pnbllc jnlnd. They 
are sa^c oraftA and Trel^hted with wholesome and salutary truths. Mr. Ifosmer writes 
for the good of his n^adcnv, and deals in the plain and practical matters of man's educa- 
tion and course of Ufa lie Is a safe counselor for tlie young, and never gilds a pemt- 
elous t>entiment in the seductive dra^icry of rhetoric This book has the calm and 
truthflil characteristics of tlic author, lie writes with an eye unon man's higliest dea- 
liny upon earth, and the great results of bts living, in Heaven. — Cayuga CM'^. 

t}ift Book for Young Men. 

Or Familiar Letters on Self-knowledge, Self-education, Female Sooi- 
ety, Ma>-riage, <fec., by Dr. Wm. A. Aloott, frontispiece, S12 pp^ 
12ma, Muslin, 75 cents. 

** Up! it Is a glorious era! 

Nev 



°S 



er yet has dawned Its peer I 
and work I and then a nobler 
n the future shall appear! *^ 



CONTENTS LEADING HEADS. 

^Umlnary Kemnrks; Self-respect and Self-reverenos; Self-knowledge: Belf-denen 
■once: Sol f-4Hlu cation ; Harmony of Character; Self-lnstrnction; Light Reading : C«»r- 
rect Conven*{iiton; The Scliools; The L,ove and Spirit of Progress; Love of Inquiry; 
or, Free-thiiikinz: Rluht Use of Ourselves: Physiology ; Phrenology; Physiognomv: 
Traveling; r-otifM;ii»ntion!«ni'88 ; L«»ve of Excitement: On Purity; Mcxlels and MtKlel 
Character: Decision and Flrmnesw; Setting Up in Bu.Mnt-ss; Money-getting; Pleasure 
Seekinir; Mental Kxcltants ; Ke«ipect for Age; Duties to the Aged ; Politics and Polite 
ical Duties: Female Society; Oeneral Duty of Marriage; Religion and Skeptielsm; 
The Christian Keligion ; Death and Fatnrity. 

Golden Steps for the Toung. 

To Usefalness, Respectability and Happiness, by Joqn Mather 

Austin, author of " Voice to Youth," frontispiece on Sttel, 243 pp. \ 

12roo., Muslin, 75 cents. > 

Wo honor the heart of the writer of this volume as well as his head. Tie has here ^ 
addre.-*Hjd an earnest and manly apiieal to the young, every page of which proves his . 
sincerity and his doMre for their w el fjwe. The siiIJi'cLh irent -d of in the <llm*rcni h-c ' 
tnres are those in<lioatud on tlie tiilo pagei Integrity and virtue, usefuIneMi. truth ana 
honor, arc the •♦ Golden StrfKs** by which the young may ascend to rosiK'Ctablllly, u:«t 
lulnens and happiness— .1/A>anv St/tU R^ffM&r, 

Sold by all Buoksollurs. Mailed, pott-paid^ to any addi-css, upon receipt uf price. 

C. M. SAXTON. MILLER & Co., Publishers, 

85 Park Ri>w^ Ntv» Torh 



A Crexn fbr Ladies! 



•^loBtraolioB and unnaeinimt may oombtne, 
Am beat la blaaded witii the b«aiiia that ahii 



THE CHRISTIAN VIHTUES, 

PERSONIFIED AND EXHBITED AS A DIVINE FAMILY, 

or THDR 

DISnNCTrVB CHABACTEBS^ ASSOCIATIONS, HIS8I0NB, LABOBS| 
TRANSFORMATIONS, AND T7LTIMATE REWARDS. 

AN ILiLUSTRATED ALLEGORY* 

BY REV. D. D. BUCK. 

In One Volume, 290 pp. 12ino. Price |1 00. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

Fkov a Wssmir Poimss.— Tbe'lanfruage is chaste and appropriate, the charaoten 
flne>7 drawn, and the whole makes a fine family plctare, which some great anlat like 
Powers, or Darand, might chisel Into palpable form, or caase to glow apon the almoat 
breathing canvaas with admirable effect — Mb& Jamb Makia Mbad. 

Tbe autbor etlnces insonuity in Uie construction of his All^ory, the perusal of 
which cannot fkil to contribute to the amusement and instruction of the intelligent aod 
pure-minded, to whom the volume is alTectionately and rebpectftilly dedicatw. It la 
a well printed volume, Jeo., &c— liav. Dr. FisOY—IvaUonal MagaaHne. 

The author of this work is already known to our readers by sundry oontribntiona to 
our columnsw llo is also known to tbe public as the author of ** Our Lord's Great 
Propbecy/* In the present volume he has given us an illustrated Allegory— exhibiting 
after tbe manner of tho l'ilgrim*8 Prosn'eaa, t he various offices of the several Gbristiaa 
Virtues — their vocation A«re, their reward herettfUr. The work exhibits not a little 
(nffenuity in its conception as well as execution. It is quite readable, and will be equally 
ini>irucllve to the young.— Rev. D. W. Clark, D. J>.— Ths Ladies'' RepotUory. 

The autbor has well and admirably combined InKtnictlon and amusement in his al- 
legory of tbe ** Ohrlsdan Virtuea.'* We commend the book stronsly, and lio(>e it may 
enter many a home — be a welcome guest at many a hearthston& — LUentry JounuxL 

This work, with Just discrimination, paints all Uie christian virtues, and the attention 
Is called, siioceesivelv, to the origin, character, office Sec of all the members of tbe Di- 
vine Family, Ecligio'n, Truth, Liberty, Faith, Hope, Charity, Mercy, Justice, Contem- 
glattnn. Impulse, Zeal, Industry, Patience, Ilumility, Virtue, Temperancei Of thia 
imlly of sons and dauKhtera, Kblioiom is represented as the Divine Mother. Tha 
study of the book can but be a great aid to pious meditation.— (%rMton MeMengsr. 

Tbe excellence and beauty of the Cnristlan Virtues, as here presented, cannot fail to 
commend them to the readers* approval, and to makea saluUry and lasting impreulon 
upon their minds; while the intrinsic Interest of the work, will delight, instruct, aod 
liiipruve. — Syracuse JttumaL 

The truthfulness of its characters, in all their movements and relation^ ehallengea 
aniversal recognition — far more so than had they been drawn fh>m Individaal. rather 
than universal exi>eriencc. Tbe author of tho volume before us has taken hold of his 
siiI.KKJt with much of Hunvnn's spirit and power, and in treallncr the srcat family of 
(Uifistian vlrtnos— I'rutli, llop<% Charity, Faith, Patience, Ac— in their aeparate or 
a-'socialed duvt'luprnt-nt In human life, ho has invested them with more than mortal 
•rtlly. and clothe«l them about with transcendent grace and XM^xklj.—lSvcning Mirror. 

Sold by all Booksellers, dialled, pont paid^ to any address, upon receipt of prloeL 

C. M. SAXTON, Publisher, 



THE LIFE 



OF 



GEORGE WASHINGTON, 

BY JARED SPARKS, LL. D. 

NEW AND FINE EDITION, TWO VOLUMES IN ONE. 

With Portrait, 674 pp. 12mo., Muslin, Price $1 25 

** Let every mother's daughter's son 
Be taught the deeds ofWashington." 

The materials for this volume have been drawn from a great variety 
of sources; from the manuscripts at Mount Vernon, papera in the pub- 
lie offices of Londqn, Paris, Washington, and all the old Thirteen States; 
and also from the private papers of many of the principal leaders in the 
Revolution. The entire mass of manuscripts left by General Washing- 
ton, consisting of more than two hundred folio volumes, was in the an* 
tbor's hands ten years. From these materials it was his aim to select 
and combine the most important facts, tending to exhibit in their true 
light the character of Washington. 

I^lf" This is the most full, accurate and interesting biography of the 
Father of his Country, ever published, and is furnished at a very low 
price. Every American family should possess, and every American 
yonth should read it. 



THE LIFE OF LOUIS KOSSUTH, 



<g0ijtrnor of guiijaxj ; 



nOLUDING NOnOBB Or THE MEN AKIV B0ENB8 OV THK HUNGARIAN RXVOLUTIOlf * 
TO WHICH U ADDED AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING HIS PBINOIPAL U'EEOHM. 

BY P. O. HEAD LEY. 

WITH AN INTRODUCTION. BY HORACE GREELEY. 

One Volnme, 461 pp. 12iiio., Steel Portrait, Muslin, Price $1,25. 

Mr. Headley has written an excellent memoir of Kossuth. It details, 
in easy, perspicuous narrative, the principal events of his life, bringing 
down the history almost to the present hour.— AT. (7. AdvoeaU, 

Sold by all Booksellers. Mailed, poft-paid^ to any address, apon receipt of price. 

C. M. SAXTON, MILLER & Co., PabUshers, 

S5 Park Bow, ITmo York. 



ALL THE ARCTIC EXPEDITIONS 



.A_ !R OTIC 

EXPLORATIONS AND DISCOVERIES 

DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 

BEING DETAILED ACXX>UNT8 OF 

THE SEVERAL EXPEDmONS TO THE NORTH SEAS, 

BOTH ENGLISH AND AMEBICAN, OONDUOTBD BT 

BOSS, FABRY, BACK, FBANKUN, M'GLITBB AND OTHSBS. 

INCLUDING THE FIRST GRINNELL EXPEDITIGSr, 

UKDIB LIXirTXNAirr DB BATXN, AND TUB 

FINAL EFFORT OF DR. E. K. KANE 

IN SEARCH OF SIR JOHN FRANKLIN. 
BY SAMUEL M. 8MUOKER. 

517 pages 12mo., ^with Illustrations. Price $1 00. 



►♦-• 



Repeated, bold, and dariog enterprises have been undertaken dnring 
the present century, to explore the hidden recesses of the Northern 
seas, the vast frozen region of everlasting snow, of stupendous ice- 
bergs, of hyberborean storms, of the long, cheerless nights of the Arc- 
tic Zone. To navigate and explore these dismal realms, men of ex- 
treme daring, of sumblime fortitude, of unconquerable perseverance» 
were absolutely necessary. And such men possessed one great ele- 
ment of distingaishing greatness, of which the explorerers of more ge- 
nial and inviting climes were destitute. Their investigations were 
nmde entirely without the prospect of rich reward, and chiefly for the 
promotion oi the magnificent ends of science. The discovery of a 
north-western passage was indeed^ot forgotten; but it must be con- 
ceded that other less mercenary and more philanthropic motives have 
given rise to the larger portion of the expeditions which, during the 
|)rogress of the nineteenth century, have invaded the cheerless soli- 
tudes of that dangerous and re{>ul8ive portion of the globe. 

This work contains a narrative of the chief adventures and diseoT- 
eries of Arctic explorers during this century. No expedition of any 
importance has been omitted ; and the work has been brought down in 
its details to the present time, so as to include a satisfactory account of 
the labors, sufferings, and triumphs of that prince of Arctic explorers 
and philanthropists. Dr. Kane ; whose adventures, and whose able naiv 
rntive of ihem, entitle him to fadeless celebrity, both as a hero in the 
field, and as a man of high genius and scholarship. 

The great chapter of Arctic adventure and discovery, may now be 
considered as closed. A concise and reliable account threfcre, of those 
adventures and discoveries, with the novel and thrilling incidents at- 
tending thcni, cannot be otherwise than interesting in themselves, and ao* 
cepuble to the public. 

Svtid hy sU B«iok6ullor9 Mailod, pout-pai /, to anj address, upon roooipt of prloeu 

C. M. SAXTON, MilaliBR & Co., PubUshezB. 

85 Park Roto^ JTmo Fohh. 



LIFE OF NAPOLEON BOMPAETE, 

(6mjfror of ^xKntt. 

BY J. G. LOCKHART. 
\ritl& steel Portrait, 392 pp. ISmo., lllasliii. -Price ft 8A« 

**The lightning may fluBb and the load thunder rattle, 
He heeds not, he hears not, he's tree firom all pain ; 

He has slept bis last sleep, he has foagbt bis last battle, 
No soand can awake him to glorj again.^ 

He was the greatest actor the world has known since the time 
of CiBsar. He sported with crowns aud 8ce]>tre8 as the baubles of a 
child. He rode triumphantly to power over the ruins of the thrones 
with which he strewed his pathway. Vast armies melted away like 
wax before him. He moved over the earth as a meteor traverses the 
sky, astonishing and startling all by the suddenness and brilliancy of 
his career. Here was his greatness. The earth will feel his power 
till its last cycle shall have been run. 



THE LIFE 



OP 



THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE, 

^irst Mitt of ItayaltoiL 

BY P. O. HEADLEY. 

Witlft Steel Portrait, 383 pp., 1 Smo., Muslin. Price ftl 86. 

«Like the lily. 
That once was mistress of the field and flowers here, 
ril hang my bead and perish.'^ 

Josephine, for the times in which she lived, was a model of 
female charnoter ; and if this volume shall make the study of it more 
general, it will so far extend the admiration of the pure and beautiful, 
m contrast with all the fonns of corruption humanity could present in 
a period of bloody Revolution. The Eiiipress was a greater personage 
than Napoleon in the elements of moral grandeur, and retained her 
»«vereignty in the hearts of the people, while he ruled by the unri- 
v'^ed splendor of his genius. 

Sold by all Bookseliers. Mailed, post-paPf, to any aWfe-w, upon receipt of price. 

C. M. SAXTON, MILLER & Co., Publishers, 

to Park Bow,*NiV) Yorx, 



COMPRISING THB 

FRONTIER WARS 

OF 

PENNSYLVANIA, VIRGINIA, KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA, 

lUiwris, ftnntssw, ani Wisconsin; 

AND EUBRACINO TUB 

INDIVIDUAL ADVENTURES AMONG THE INDIANS, 

AND 
Exploits of Boone, Kcntony Clarkey Ij<iffaii9 

AND OTHER 

BORDER HEROES OF THE VILEST 

BY PROFESSOR FROST. 

608 pp. 8yo., 300 IlliutratioiiB. Cloth $2 00. Hoiocco$2 60 

The waT"s between the tany settlers on the western frontier of our 
country and its abonVinal inhabitants, form an extremely interesting 
portion of history. The long period of time through whicu these wara 
extond, the large number of actions which tliey embrace, the variety 
of adventures and instances of individual heroism which they display, 
and the magnitude and importance of the territorial acauisitions in 
which they resulted, fully entitle them to form a separate history. 

The Border Wars of the West, when we enter into their details, as 
gathered from the traditions received from those who were engaged in 
them, abound with interesting displaj's of human character. In them 
we may study the traits of the Indians, the terrible enemies of our fore- 
fathers, ancient possessors of the soil, who resisted their gradual but 
certain encroachments, with all the violence of savage fiary, and all 
the rttratagoins of barbarous subtilty and cunning, liei-e, too, we may 
l<>iirn many useful lessons from the traits of character exhibited by the 
l)(H"(k'r settlers, exposed by their position to all the horrors of the mid- 
night surprise with the dreadful accompaniments of the warwhoop, 
tlie massacre, the burning and plundering, murder and scalping, and 
followed by the weary sorrows of Indian captivity. We can never 
ccftse to admire the courage and fortitude with which the old border 
heroes and their not less heroic wives, confronted the dangers of 
ft life on the frontier, aud the activity, promptness, and determinatioa 
with which they met and punished every assault 

Sold by all Booksellers. Mailed, poH-paid^ to any address, upon receipt of price 

C. M. SAXTON MJtiLEH & Co., Pul>liBher8, 

2.-1 p.nk liato^ yifUf r.»^»- 



^ 



„Jli*«^'-i'^ 







.-vyy?^'^^' 



In It^iy 






f« 



I 



2919l'990Q 




