4 53 



mm 



mmf- ' ■ 



i lip' 

I I ii'^' 

iliitliiillip 



1 



i' DJi i( jlili: 



""X 



C ^. '•^-^ N .> 






<^^" 



.\^' , .x^-^ 



-^s" .^ 






',/->" 



:%''T..'\f 






.# 






./■ 









x^ 
^ 



■^9 


1 * ' 


v< 


s "^ 


'' / 


'f^ 






jcM. 


•/'>>^,_ 




■&' 








,/ 


%■ 


•J 








» « 


^-^^ 






.^ ,_/r?^ -f 


'f 




,\ 


■ Ji^'-r.' 


- 






A 


%, 











,-Js 



^^ <^%-?^<^ 






%.^- -/ 






%^ 




















THE 



RABBIT FANCIER 



A TREATISE UPON TEE 



§xtzVm^, licariiTg, (ifccbing, nniJ Central Puitagcmcut 



RABBI T S 



WITH RKMARKS UHO\ THEIR 



DISEASES AND REMEDIES, 



DRAWN FROM ADTHKNTIC SOURCES AM) PERSONAL OBSErvVAliON. 



TO WHICH ARK ADDED 

FULL DIRECTIONS FOR TOR CONSTRUCTION OF nUTCHES, RABBITRIES, ETC., 
TOGETHER WITH RECIPES FOR COOKING AND DRESS- 
ING FOR THE TABLE. 

B Y C. n/bEMEN T, 

AUTHOR OF "the AMERICAN POULTERER'S COMPANION " 



NEW YORK : 

C. M. SAXTON & CO., AGRICULTURAL BOOK PUBLISHERS, 
140 FULTON STREET 

1857. 



.IS 4 5 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the yoar 185G» by 

C. M. SAXTON, 

in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for 
the Southern District of New York. 



EUfcoarU ©. Jtuktus, ^rintrr, 

NOS 26 AXD '28 ffRA.NKFORT STRKBI. 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 

FAGB 

BABBIT PIT 37 

SECTION OF A TWO-TTEK RABBIT HUTCH 43 

GABLE-END ELEVATION, NO. 1 48 

MAIN FLOOR PLAN, NO. II ,, 48 

LOFT, OR GARRET, NO. Ill 50 

CELLAR, NO. IV 50 

FRONT AND FLOOR SECTIONS, NOS. V. AND VI 52 

REAR SECTION, NO. VH 53 

TWO-ROWED HUTCH 55 

ANGOLA RABBIT 68 

THE LOP-EARED RABBIT 68 

HALF LOP 68 

DEWLAP RABBIT 71 

AlVIERICAN GRAY RABBIT 88 

THE NORTHERN VARYING HARE. 92 



CONTENTS. 

PAQK 

Prefatory 7 

Rabbits 9 

Merits and Uses 12 

Nature and Habits 16 

Breeding 17 

Management of the Doe 20 

Management of the Young. 22 

Handling 23 

Feeding 24 

Rabbit Courts 34 

RabHt Pit 86 

Rabbit Hutches 41 

Selection of Stock 57 

Varieties of Rabbits 61 

Fancy Rabbits 69 

Markings : The Smut and the Chain — Carriage 73 

Salable Value 75 

Properties required for Prizes 76 

Feeding and Killing for the Table 77 

Castration 78 

Diseases — ^Their Prevention and Cure 79 

American Gray Rabbit 89 

Northern Varying Hare 93 

Cooking Rabbits 96 

French Ways of Cooking Rabbits 9? 



PKEFATORY 



In the preparation of tliis little treatise, it lias been the 
aim and desire of the author that without entirely exclud- 
ing the less necessary points of the subject, it should be 
made as practicable as possible, and should contain such 
information as is most required by beginners, with but 
little previous knowledge of the management of our little 
favorite. We have done our best to carry out this inten- 
tion, and we think that the novice, after a careful perusal 
of the following pages, will find but little difficulty in 
commencing and continuing his pleasing task. 

When about twelve or thirteen years of age we com- 
menced breeding rabbits, — the common tame varieties, 
black, blue, white, and party-colored. For their accom- 
modation we enclosed a circular piece of ground, on a side- 
liil], about tAventy-five feet in diameter, by setting boards 
on end in the ground, two feet deep, and about five feet 
high, in the form of a stockade, or like the enclosure of 
the pit, as figured in page 39. We dug a pit in the cen- 
tre, covering it with boards, placing the earth on the top 
in the form of a mound. From this they worked holes in 
the sides of the walls and formed their nests for breeding. 

We -started with a trio, one buck and two does. They 

0) 



8 PEEFATORY. 

''bred like rabbits," and we soon had quite a stock, say 
from fifteen to twenty, but for some reason tb.ey did not 
seem to increase much afterward. The cause at the time 
we could not comprehend, but now think the bucks or 
males caused the mischief by destroying the young, and 
quarrelling with one another, so we abandoned that enter- 
prise. Breeding in hutches, at that early date, was un- 
known in this country. 

While residing on Three Hills Farm, some eighteen 
years ago, my father, being crippled with rheumatism, 
amused himself with breeding rabbits in hutches, and suc- 
ceeded admirably ; raising quite a large number, many of 
which afforded us dainty meals. Castrating the young 
bucks and fattening them for the table, many of them 
weighed eight pounds after being dressed. The flesh was 
white, tender, and well-flavored. 

We hope that this little book will serve to diffuse, more 
widely, reliable information on the subject of which it 
treats, and prove a welcome acquisition and manual of 
present interest and permanent utility; and that it will 
claim, at least, the favorable consideration of those for 
whom it is designed. 

C. K BEMENT. 

Staten Island^ May^ 1855. 



RABBITS 



In a little treatise like tliis it is hardly worth the labor 
to inquire into the origin, or to attempt to trace the subju- 
gation of the rabbit. Like the domestic fowl, its domesti- 
cation is shrouded in mystery. The wild rabbit is un- 
doubtedly the origin of our various domestic breeds. It is 
generally believed that the rabbit was first introduced into 
Spain from Africa, by the Eomans, whence it gradually 
spread, naturalizing itself into temperate climates, but 
does not reach quite so far north as the hare. There ap- 
pears every probability that the most remarkable varieties 
came from Persia and the adjacent countries. 

Tame races, which have the greatest claim to style 
themselves aboriginals of England, were in all likelihood 
existing in their present state long before the commence- 
ment of any historical epoch in Great Britain. It would 
appear, therefore, that the rabbit is not an aboriginal of 
England, but the date of its introduction is unknown. 
Tame rabbits easily resume their natural state of freedom, 
and return to their instinctive habits. 

In its wild state, it forms long, winding burrows ; keeps 
its hole by day ; feeds morning, evening, and night, on 
vegetables and grain. 

Eabbits are found in great numbers in England, bur- 
rowing in dry, sandy soils, particularly if the situation be 



10 THE RABBIT. 

iiilly or the ground irregular. Enclosures called warrens 
are frequently made in England, in favorable spots of this 
kind, some of which extend to hundreds of acres. Eab- 
bits not being swift-footed animals, are taken by nets, 
traps, ferrets, and dogs. The common wild rabbit is of a 
gray color, and is the best for the purpose of food; its 
skin is valuable, as the pelt is a material for hats ; but 
another variety has been introduced, the silver-gray^ the 
skin of which is more valuable, and is dressed as fur ; the 
color of this is a black ground, thickly interspersed with 
single gray hairs. A great number of them are exported 
to China. 

Size excepted, the rabbit closely resembles the hare in 
all its principal characters. It may, however, be at once 
distinguished by the comparative shortness of the head 
and ears, as well as of the hinder limbs ; the absence of a 
black tip to the ears ; and by the brown color of the upper 
surface of the tail. Its habits and general economy are 
totally opposite to the hare, and its flesh, instead of being 
dark and highly flavored, is white and delicate. The 
flesh of the rabbit differs somewhat according to its wild 
or domestic state. There is some difference of opinion as 
to which is preferable ; the wild rabbit has more flavor, 
but some prefer the tame as whiter and more delicate. 
; The tame rabbit in all its varieties, has always been, and 
still is, a great favorite in many parts of the European 
Continent. "In Holland," says a writer in the American 
Agriculturist, "it is bred with reference to color only, 
which must be a pure Avhite, with dark ears, feet, legs and 
tail ; this distribution has a singular effect, but withal, it 
is a pretty little creature. The French breed a long, 



RABBITS. 11 

rangj animal, of great apparent size, but deficient in depth 
and breadtli, and, of course, wanting in constitution; no 
attention is paia to color, and its markings is matter of 
accident. The white Angola, with its beautiful long fur 
and red eyes, is also a great favoritain France." 

Albinos are sometimes found among the common white 
rabbits, and it often happens that one or two appear in a 
litter, when neither of the parents are so. 

There are several varieties of tame rabbits. The large 
white and yellow, and white variety, have the whitest and 
most delicate flesh, and when cooked in the same way, 
sometimes rivals the turkey. There is also a large variety 
of the hare color, the flesh of which is highly flavored and 
more savory than that of the common rabbit ; and it makes 
a good dish cooked like the hare, to which, at six or eight 
months old, it is nearly equal in size. 

As the flesh of the tame rabbit is inclined to be dry, it 
is well to feed them partly on green vegetables, which 
makes it more juicy. They become larger and fatter in 
the tame than in the wild state ; but it is not desirable to 
have them as fat as they can be made. Some that have 
been fed in hutches have been known to exceed twelve 
pounds in weight. "When very old they are tough like 
hares. 

Wild rabbits are procurable young and in good condi- 
tion only at particular seasons, but tame ones may be 
always bred in a state fit for the table. The latter are in 
the greatest perfection when four months old ; but if well 
fed, will not be too old at eighteen months old. 

The skins, if carefully preserved, besides being saleable, 
are useful in a family for lining garments. 



MERITS AND USES. 

The real value of tlie rabbit to man is greater tban 
would appear at first sigbt. Independently of tbe fur, 
wliicb enters largely into tbe manufacture of bats and 
otber articles, tbe skin makes an excellent glue. If tbe 
flesb is not particularly nutritious, it is a ligbt and agree- 
able article of food ; and none but tbose wbo bave lived 
in tbe country, and bave received tbe unexpected visit of 
friends to dinner, can form an adequate idea of tbe conve- 
nience of baving a plump rabbit or two at band in tbe 
butcb. 

But we bold tbat, besides tbeir material profitableness, 
tbere is a moral value attacbed to tbese animals. Tbey 
afford an early lesson to tbe young of tbe responsibility of 
baving live animals to feed and tend. Tbeir proprietor- 
sbip affords an opportunity of exercising tbe priceless 
qualities, in after-life, of tbrift, attentiveness, good man- 
agement, forbearance, and foretbougbt. Innocent and 
unfailing amusement is tbus derived from tbe daily prac- 
tice of prudent babits, wbicb are an excellent preparation 
for a subsequent cbarge of greater importance and diffi- 
culty. 

Tbe dung of tbese animals is an excellent manure for 
clayey soils, and is particularly serviceable in tbe culture 
of vines and fibrous-rooted green-bouse plants. 



MERITS AND USES. 18 

The rabbit sliares with the fowl and the pig the merit 
of being a save-all, — being a transmuter of useless scraps 
and offal into useful and valuable fur and flesh. All sorts 
of vegetable tops and parings, weeds fi;om the garden, 
jwhich are not of too moist a nature — ^which would other- 
'^isQ meet with no better fate than to be swept away to 
the rubbish-heap — ^will, with the addition of sufficient diy 
food, serve to maintain a little stud of rabbits. The cast- 
out refase of three or four gardens, in a village, in the 
hands of many an ardent young stock-master, would 
serve, under a judicious administration, to rear, feed, and 
fatten his little flock. And in house-keeping, as well as 
in agriculture, trifling means of profit ought not to be 
neglected, when they are capable of being secured with 
only trifling exertion and the outlay of a small amount of 
capital, and especially when they are, as in this instance, 
the natural appendage of every poultry-yard or homestead 
which pretends to be of the least importance. The mis- 
fortune is, that exaggerated accounts have been given to 
the world which led to failures. 

On the other hand, it is a false accusation to charge 
these animals with consuming any undue and enormous 
quantity of fodder. Some authors have asserted that ten 
rabbits will eat as much as a cow; but it seems to be 
proved that it would take at least fifty or sixty of them to 
effect so great a consumption as that. Probably the observ- 
ers who have stated the fact, founded their calculations on 
the superfluous quantity of herbage which might have been 
supplied, and which the rabbits soon reduced to the state 
of filthy litter. The objection made to the unwholesome- 
ness of rabbit-keeping, in consequence of the smell which 



14 THE RABBIT. 

their liutclies emit if neglected, is equally applicable to any 
other breach of cleanly habits. The evil and the remedy 
are in the hands of those who made the complaint. The 
rabbit itself is naturally a cleanly animal, and when con- 
fined by itself will always choose one particular spot or 
corner in which to deposit its ordure, and will be careful 
not to defile any other. 

The cottager, the only meat on whose table is often ai 
morsel of salt pork, will not prove so hard to please 
when he sits down to a fine rabbit of his own rearing and 
fatting. 

The food of the rabbit is entirely vegetable. They feed 
upon common grass, clover, lucern, and on good hay, pea 
and bean vines. Greens and roots form excellent food, 
and potatoes boiled or steamed. They will fatten on them, 
but still more if they are given oats or bran. Some think 
their flesh is less dry when fed chiefly upon succulent 
herbs ; but with these moist foods they must always have 
a proportionable quantity of the dry food, as hay, bread 
and oats, bran, brewers' grains, chaff, and the like ; or 
when they have greens, they must not have drink. At 
all times they drink but little. The test of health is their 
dung being not too moist. 

"In England," says a writer in the Cultivator^ "the 
rabbit formerly held the rank of ' farm-stock,' and thou- 
sands of acres were exclusively devoted to its production ; 
families were supported, and rents, rates, and taxes were 
paid from its increase and sale. I remember visiting a 
farm of Lord Onslow's, in Surrey, containing about 1,400 
acres. It was in the occupation of an eminent flock 
master and agriculturist, who kept some hundreds of 



MERITS AND USES. 15 

lutclied rabbits for the sake of their manure, which he 
ipplied to his turnip crop ; added to this, their skins and 
Carcasses were quite an item of profit, notwithstanding 
ihe care of them required an old man and a boy, with a 
ionkey and cart. The food used was chiefly brewers' 
^ains, millers' waste, bran and hay, with clover and 
'oots ; the cost of keeping not exceeding two pence a 
rveek. The hutches stood under a long shed, open on all 
;ides, for the greater convenience of cleaning and feeding. 
[ was told that the manure was much valued by the mar- 
ket gardeners around London, who readily paid 25. 6d. a 
mshel at the rabbitries. These rabbitries are very nu- 
nerous in all the towns and cities of England, and form a 
;ource of amusement or profit to all classes, from the man 
)f fortune to the day -laborer. JSTor is it unfrequent that 
his latter produces a rabbit from an old tea-chest, or dry- 
^oods box, that wins the prize from its competitor of the 
nahogany hutch or ornamental rabbitry." 



NATURE AND HABITS. 



EvEEY class of stock-keeping and menagerie manage 
ment, in order to be permanently snccessful, and not cor 
ducted at mere haphazard, must be founded on a previoul 
knowledge of the habits and constitution of the creature 
kept ; and therefore, as we here desire to communicate al 
the information which a novice requires, we believe tha 
the inexperienced breeder of rabbits will best understanc 
the theory and principles of his art, if we first make him ac 
quainted with the precise nature of the animal with whicl 
he proposes to deal. 

" The rabbit belongs to that order of the class Mamma 
lia, or suck-giving animals, which is called Inctsores, be 
cause they cut their food with the front teeth of thei] 
upper and lower jaws. They do not grind it, like th< 
horse, the ox, and the elephant, for the simple reasoi 
that they have no grinders, or molar teeth. Some of 
these "cutters" are carnivorous, or rather omnivorous 
like the rat ; others are herbivorous in general, but occa^ 
sionally insectivorous, like the Guinea-pig (which the olc 
French writers call -the Connil d'lnde, or Indian rabbit) ; 
some, like the hare, feed exclusively on vegetables anc 
grain ; and the rabbit, unless under exceptional circum- 
stances, belongs to this latter category. The rabbit anc 
the Guinea-pig are the only "cutters" that have beer 
strictly domesticated by man ; though he has made petg 



(16) 



NATUllE AND HABITS. — BKEEDING. 17 

bf tlie squirrel, tlie dormouse, tlie marmot, the albino 
nouse, and one or tw.o others." 

The male rabbit is called "a buck," the female "a 
^oe." '' The English language has not, like the French, a 
pecial word {lapereau) to denote the young. Babbits are 
Doljgamous — one male being quite sufficient for as many 
as thirty females ; in warrens, only one is allowed to a 
lundred. The adult bucks are overbearing, mischievous, 

d quarrelsome. Success very much depends on the 
Lvay in which they are managed ; and consequently, rab- 
pit-keeping is an amusement better adapted for boys than 
jfor girls, unless, indeed, they have an elder brother or 
parent who will take upon himself the entire direction of 
the breeding department." 



BREEDINa. 

Tame rabbits are raised in hutches or boxes placed in 
apartments constructed on purpose for them, or in sheds. 
They may also be bred in small artificial warrens, pre- 
pared for them, where the soil is extremely dry, and well 
drained by a ditch all around it, and having banks raised 
for the rabbits to burrow in. A damp situation will be 
fatal to the stock. As the nature of the rabbit is to dig, 
care must be taken to sink the wall or fence sufficient to 
prevent them from undermining and making their escape. 

The doe will breed at the age of a year, and sometimes 
a\ the age of six months, and her period of gestation is 



18 THE BABBIT. 

thirty or thirty-one days. But they should not be allowei 
to breed at that early age, as they are liable to abortion 
and even if that misfortune is avoided, their little one 
come into the world exceedingly weak, and sometime, 
defective. It cannot be expected to happen otherwise. 
Nature, in spite of all her efforts, will fail to develop a 
the same time the strength of the mother and of her off 
spring also. The attempt will assuredly be made at ilia 
expense of one or the other— probably both. The youn^ 
ones will have to suffer from an insufficient supply of 
milk; their constitution will prove weak and rickety: 
and the chances are, that they will die of debility before 
attaining an age to be of any use. 

The doe goes with young thirty, or sometimes thirty- 
one days. A fortnight after she has littered, she is readyj 
to visit the buck again, with whom she should be placed^ 
in the evening, and returned to her young the followingi 
morning. She might be put to him five or six days after; 
bringing forth, as she is almost always in heat ; but shej 
requires a fortnight's repose to recover her strength. She^ 
breeds throughout the winter as well as in summer, and 
will, therefore, according to strict theory, produce eight 
litters in the course of a single year. But all this sup-; 
poses every circumstance to be invariably favorable:— 
that she should be thoroughly well fed, never out of 
health, and that no untoward accident happen. A much 
safer calculation is to reckon upon six litters a year;; 
some breeders are even contented with supposing five to - 
be successfully reared. When the buck is not more than: 
five or six years old, and the doe than five, it is very rare 
that she misses But should it so happen, give her ai 

I 



BREEDING. 19 

btritious and stimulating diet, sucli as parsley, celery, 
mnel, thytne, and other aromatic herbs, besides a liberal 
iet of oats, bran, or pollard, and sweet hay ; keep her 
kerably warm, and in a few days she will be all right 
^ain. After her night's absence, she will be returned to 
|er own hutch, and will then suckle her last progeny 
aother week longer. To keep all the parent animals in 
lis constant state of isolation is one of the main and 
mdamental maxims of rabbit-keeping ; for the buck will 
ot only greatly harass the doe, if he is allowed free ac- 
3ss to her, but will often kill the young while they are 
;ill blind and helpless. 

The number at a birth varies from two or three up to 
Lght and ten young ones. In general, the larger the 
reed, the fewer at a birth. As many as eighteen have 
een known in extreme cases. But eight or nine are a 
luch better average. Some breeders prefer to have no 
lore than five or six, and take away those that are in 
xcess. When it can be done without too much disturb- 
nce, the plan is a good one, especially when the doe has 
Dst or destroyed her former litters. Sometimes, when she 
5 weak and exhausted at the time of littering, she feels that 
he can suckle only a limited number, she herself will 
ave her owner the trouble of killing the supernumeraries, 
nd will calculate according to her strength how many 
ught to be spared. But take six as the average number 
f little ones to be produced at each six litters, and we 
.ave thirty-six rabbits in the course of a twelvemonth as 
be produce of a single doe. More than that : — at six 
aonths old, the young rabbit is fully capable of becoming 
, parent in its turn. In two years, therefore, we should 



20 THE EABBIT. 

have four successive generations of rabbits all the whil 
that the fecundity of the original ancestress is still goin 
on. " Rabbits," says Pennant, " will breed seven time 
a year, and bring eight young ones each time." On 
supposition that this happens regularly during four yeari 
their numbers will amount to one million, two hundre 
and seventy -four thousand, eight hundred and fort|rl 
head. 



MANAaBMENT OF THE DOE. 



The intelligent breeder ought to know by his stud-boo] 
(for he will give names to his favorites) the day on whic". 
each doe is to bring forth. A few days beforehand, h 
will throw into the hutch a large handful of coarse bu 
sweet hay. She will immediately make use of it to forn 
her nest, and will employ for the same purpose am 
scraps, shreds, or odd bits that she can lay hold of Th 
first outside structure arranged, she then strips off the fu 
from beneath her belly, and devotedly denudes herself, t< 
secure a soft, warm couch for the reception of her expectec 
young. At this j)eriod, neglect may be fatal ; she mus 
at the same time be kept quiet, and well fed, to suppor 
her in nursing. The omission of a single meal may checl 
her milk, and occasion the death of several young. Fe^v 
things at this time are better for her than carrots and oats 
Wet vegetables are especially injurious. During the fir? 
week, let her have plenty of bran, mingled with a littl 
salt. 



MANAGEMENT OF THE DOE. 21 

If the doe has had a previous litter, they must all be 
moved before she brings forth a second time ; her hutch, 
>o, ought to have been well cleaned out. Take care not 
) touch the young ; unless, at least, they are deposited in 
wet jDlace, or any of thoin die. All unnecessary dis- 
irbance or handling is apt to make the mother kill the 
hole of her family. When you find a doe overlays or 
its her young, as they sometimes will, mark her well, 
nd remember the circumstance ; for should the same mis- 
)rtune happen again, the best thing to be done is to fatten 
ad kill her. If, however, she be a favorite animal, and 
a attempt at reformation be resolved upon, she must be 
bundantly fed with good substantial food, and disturbed 
o more than is absolutely necessary. 



MANAGEMENT OF THE YOUNG. 

f 
The little animals are born blind and helpless, coverecf 
only with a short velvety down. On the fifth day thejF 
open their eyes ; on the sixth, the liveliest little fellows f'^ 
amongst them begin to peep outside the nest. At a montlf 
old they eat alone, and partake of food together with theiil'^ 
mother. At six weeks old they no longer require the 
doe, and ought to be weaned. This short period is quite 
sufficient to allow to be spent in the first term of rearing 
them. K they Avere left longer, they would be apt to ex- 
haust the dam, which ought to be avoided. After Avean- 
ing, two modes of feeding have been adopted, with equal 
success : — the first is, to introduce all the weanlings, from D 
time to time, into a large hutch or common apartment, in 
which they are tended carefully, kept warm and clean, 
and fed several times in the course of the day. At each 
feeding-time, every particle of victuals which has beenl' 
trampled upon is scrupulously withdrawn ; and it is found ' 
that, by observing these regulations, the losses are verj 
few, or none. When two months and a half old, they will 
fatten on carrots, oats, hay, and bran, with a few peas now 
and then. 

The second plan is to keep together all the young rab- 
bits of the same month ; that is to say, they are distributed 
in six large hutches or apartments, care being taken tc 

(22) 



MANAGEMENT OF THE YOUNG. — HANDLING. 23 

jparate the males from the females (or to castrate them) 
Y the end of the third month. From the fifth to the 
xth month, all those intended for sale are disposed of, 
'ter selecting the handsomest and best-tempered does to 
;rve as breeders. Does will continue prolific until they 
:e five years old. Beyond that age, it is rare to meet 
ith rabbits surviving in a domestic state. After that, it 
usual to fatten them for the table ; though, in such 
ises, the purchaser may complain that he has met with a 
ard bargain. The duration of their natural life is said 
> be from six to eight years. Bufibn extends the term to 
ine years. 



HANDI.INa. 

Babbits are sometimes injured by being clumsily hau- 
led. The proper way to take hold of them is, to grasp 
le ears with the right hand, and to support the rump 
ith the left. To seize them by the leg is apt to dislocate 

limb, especially in the case of creatures that are shy ; 
1 injudicious gripe round the neck or the body may 
rove unexpectedly and suddenly fatal, by injury to the 
ertebrae, compression of the lungs, or breaking of the 
bs ; a hasty clutch at the tail may cause the fur of that 
mamental meml^er to come off in one piece, and spoil 
ie annual's beauty for life. The instantaneous way in 
rhich an adroit hand will kill a rabbit, apparently by the 
|ierest touch, gives a forcible hint as to the caution we should 
jse in allowing a favorite animal to be captured and pulled 



24 THE RABBIT. 

about by inexperienced persons. I or does with youn^ 
the greatest tenderness is indispensable. 



FEEDINa. 



Eabbits should be fed twice a day — at morning and s 
night. If on green food, it ought to be thoroughly dri 
before it is put into their racks or thrown upon the floo g 
of their hutches. This diet would principally consist o: 
the refuse of the garden vegetables, taking care to giv 
only a moderate quantity of cabbages, lettuce, and al 
other cold and watery plants. Wet herbage is deadly poisoi 
to rabbits. The leaves and roots of carrots, all sorts o: 
leguminous plants, the leaves and branches (or the prun 
ings) of all kinds of trees, cabbage leaves, wild succory 
parsley, &c., may be the diet of rabbits during summei 
The great point, however, at all seasons, is to make tb 
dry preponderate over the moist. 

According to Mowbray, it is better to feed three time 
than twice a day. The art of feeding rabbits with safet; 
and advantage, is always to give the preponderance to dr; 
and substantial food. Their nature is congenial with tha 
of sheep, and the same kind of food, with little variation 
agrees with both. He contends that all weeds and th 
refuse of vegetation should be banished from rabbit feed 
ing : such articles being too washy and diuretic, and can 
never be worth attention whilst the more solid and nutri 
tious productions of the field may be obtained in sue] 
plenty, and will return so much greater profit. liabbit 
which have as much oats as they will eat, can never tak» 



FEEDING. 25 

Liiy harm from being indulged with almost an equal por- 
iion of good substantial vegetables. However, the test of 
heir health is that their dung be not too moist. 

Mr. E. B. Piatt, of Albany, a successful breeder of lop- 
jared rabbits, informs us that he feeds brewers' grains, and 
inds them the best and most economical feed for winter ; 
md, contrary to the natural supposition, they do not sour 
n the least, and their bowels are kept in good order. The 
^rain proper for rabbits is oats, peas, wheat, pollard, and 
lome give buckwheat ; the greens and roots, the same as 
)ur cattle or sheep crops ; viz., carrots, parsnips, rutabaga, 
irtichokes, and potatoes, if baked or steamed ; lucern, 
iabbage leaves, clover, tares, pea and bean haulm. The 
Dest dried herbage is clover and meadow hay, and pea 
md bean straw. 

"In relation to feeding," says a writer in the Cultivator^ 
)ver the signature of "K," who is good authority in such 
natters, " I would caution breeders not to use lettuce after 
&ho plant begins to put up its seed stalks, as its narcotic 
bflect is then so strong as to cause death. I lost in one 
summer over twenty rabbits from this plant before discov- 
3ring the cause. Corn, sown broadcast, affords an abun- 
iant and an excellent substitute. I think the rutabaga, as a 
winter vegetable, is generally preferred to carrots. Water, 
[ find, may be given to rabbits when six months old with- 
out any ill effects, though so positively interdicted by all 
Lhe 'fancy.' I have not heretofore suficiently enforced 
the importance of a liberal supply of hay, which, in winter, 
affords the rabbit that amount of bulk necessary to the 
[lealthy feeding of all animals, and which oats alone would 
QOt give. It matters not how coarse the hay, nor how full 
2 



26 



THE EABBIT. 



of trash and weeds, it will be equally sought, and som 
times preferred to any grain, especially if the rabbit is 
little off its feed." 

A variety of food is a great thing ; and, surely, the field 
and gardens, and hedges furnish this variety— all sorts ■ 
grasses, strawberry leaves, and ivy. Thev should have oa 
once a day. When the doe has young ones, feed her mo 
abundantly with all sorts of greens and herbage, and wit 
carrots and other things mentioned before, besides givin 
her a few oats once a day. But do not think that, becaus > 
she is a small animal, a little feeding or a little care is su i 
ficient. To those gentlemen who keep rabbits for the us 1 
of their flxmily, (and a very useful and convenient articl i 
they are too,) I would observe, that if they find their ral 
bits die, they may depend on it that ninety-nine times ou 
of the hundred starvation is the malady. 

"It is a matter of surprise to an American first visiting 
England," remarks L. F. Allen, in his "Rural Architec 
ture," "to see the (luantities of game which abound a 
certain seasons of the year in London and other marketi 
of that country, in contrast of the scanty supply, or rathe: 
no supply at all, existing in the markets of American cities 
The reason for such difterence is, that in England, Scotland 
Wales, and Ireland, every acre of the soil is appropriate^ 
to some profitable use, while we, from the abundance of 
land m America, select only the best for agricultural pur. 
poses, and let the remainder go barren and mcared for- 
Lands appropriated to the rearing of game, when fit foi 
farm pasturage or tUlage, is unprofitable, generally, witl 
us; but there are thousands of acres barren for other pur- 
poses, that might be devoted to the breeding and pasturag. 



FEEDING. 27 

of rabbits, and wliicL, by thus appropriating tliem, might bo 
turned to profitable account. All the preparation required 
is, to enclose the ground with a high and nearly close paling 
[fence, and the erection of a few rude hutches inside for 
wintsr shelter and the storage of their food. They will 
burrow into the ground, and breed with great rapidity; and 
in the fall and winter seasons, they will be fat for market 
with the food they gather from the otherwise worthless soil 
over which they run. Kocky, bushy, and evergreen grounds, 
either hill, dale, or plain, are good for them, wherever the 
soils are dry and friable. The rabbit is a gross feeder, 
living well on what many grazing animals reject, and 
gnawing down all kinds of brush, briars, and noxious 
weeds. 

" The common domestic rabbits are probably the best 
for market pui^poses, and were they to be made an object 
I of attention, immense tracts of mountain in New Jersey, 
j Pennsylvania, New York, and New England, could be 
made available for this object. 

" Some may think," continues Mr. Allen, ''this a small 
business. So is making pins, and rearing chickens and 
bees. But there are an abundance of people Avhose age 
and capacity are just fitted for it, and for want of other 
employment are a charge upon their friends and the pub- 
lic." 

On the subject of rearing "Fancy Babbits," and their 
necessary accommodations, we subjoin the following from 
the pen of Mr. F. Kotch, of Morris, Otsego county, N. Y., 
who imported the first of the large lop-eared rabbits into 
this country, some twelve or fourteen years ago. His 
beautiful and high-bred animals have occasionally been 



28 THE RABBIT. 



pi 



exliibited at tlie fliirs of tlie State Agricultural Society 
for wliicli premiums have been awarded and the highes 
commendations elicited. 

" Eabbits kept for profit in the vicinity of 'a city, anc 
where there are mills, may be raised at a very small cost 
and when once known as an article of food, will be liber- " 
ally paid for by the epicure, for their meat is as deliciitti" 
as a chicken's, and their fat mild and very rich. | 

"I am surprised they are not more generally kept as a I 
source of amusement, and for the purpose of experi-f 
ment. ' 

*' There is, I think, in many, a natural fondness for ani- 
mals, but not easily indulged without more room than is often!, 
to be found in city residences. Fowls and pigeons trespass 
on our neighbors, and are a frequent cause of trouble. ^ 
This objection does not hold good against a rabbit, which 
occupies so small a space, that Avhere there is an out-house 
there may be a rabbitry. English children are encouraged 
in their fondness for animals, as tending to good morals 
and good feelings, and as offering a home amusement, in 
contradistinction to street associations. 

"In England, and in other parts of Europe, a love for 
animals, with the attendance and personal care necessary 
to their comfort, is encouraged from childhood up, as hav- 
ing a beneficial influence on the character. 

" The operatives, mechanics, and laborers in other coun- 
tries seem to have a perfect passion for such pursuits, and 
take the greatest interest and pride in breeding and perfect- 
ing the lesser animals, though often obliged to toil for the 
very food they feed to them. Here, too, home influences 
are perceived to be good, and arc encouraged by the em- . 



FEEDING. 29 

Dloyer, as supplying the place of otlier and much more 
j[uestionablc pursuits and tastes. 

■'In relation to the man of leisure and science, I would 
Remark, that as the artist delights in the power of moulding 
ihe inert clay into lifc-IP.vC form, so does the intelligent and 
imateur breeder find iniinite pleasure in the higher and 
nore difiScult art of modelling the live material into its 
nost symmetrical proportions. And why should there 
lot be as much satisfaction in producing what is excellent 
)n a small, as on a large scale ? Is not the statuette as 
)eautiful, and is it not as much an effort of genius and art 
IS the statue? 

"To myself," continues Mr. E,, "the rabbitry is a 'stu- 
lio,' whereof the material is cheap, rapidly produced, soon 
perfected, very abundant, and occupying a small space, 
md is thus brought under my own immediate care and 
bbservation, with but little trouble, requiring months only 
instead of years, lo practically test theories and speculations, 
md for studying some of the most important, but not 
mderstood, laws of nature. Such as, how fhr it may be 
>afe to use close affinities? And if deteriorating, what are 
:he first and warning symptoms ? In what order does the 
mimal structure give way under a persisted course of such 
3reeding? The same as to cross-breeding, and how far 
fhe control of the breeder is diminished by its continuance ? 
trhe comparative influence of the parents on the offspring, 
|ind how evinced ? These, and many other unsettled ques- 
tions involving the first principles of breeding, would 
Require almost a lifetime to decide by experiments on the 
larger animals, to say nothing of the large outlay it would 



30 THE RABBIT. 

require, and the serious losses that might reasonably he 
expected to attend it." 

With all due appreciation of the very important assist- 
ance rendered the agriculturist by analytical chemistry, I 
would sooner trust the practical experiments of the rab- 
bitry as to the value of the different kinds of food, than I 
would the analysis of the laboratory ! And though onejuf 
may prove that a bushel of rutabaga be little more or lessp 
than a pail of water, yet if the other showed me that tur^ 
nips, as the principal food, with but two ounces of hay per »li' 
day to the rabbit, developed the animal frame by a healthy 
growth, an abundance of muscle and some fat, I should be 
strongly tempted to pour out the water and pour in thelp 
turnips. 

" Clubs and societies abound for the breeding and exhibi- 
tion of the ' Fancy-Lops,' now the favorite rabbit in 
England, and originally imported from Madagascar. <) 
Much pains have been taken, and much money spent, to )' 
bring them to their present perfection in form, color, and ^ 
size ; all of which are minutely attended to, and not very I 
easily combined in any one animal, and hence they form i 
an admirable test of skill on the part of the breeder. ) 

" For instance, a rabbit, to come out a winner at one of ^ 
those exhibitions, must possess all the points of symmetry f 
in common with the larger animals of the improved ' 
breed ; such as a small, clean head, wide and full shoul 
ders, broad and deep chest, a wide back, large loin, full | 
quarters, and fine bone. 

" Some of us, I suspect, find it no easy matter to get 
even thus far in the catalogue of excellences ; but to all 



FEEDING. 31 

ese essentials are to be added tlie more conventional^ and 
khaps the more difficult points, of beauty and fancy, as 
id down by the various societies ; embracing not only 
rm and color, but the particular disposition and forms 
■ color. 

" A prize rabbit, then, must possess, besides the before- 
entioned properties, a full, round, clear eye, an ear (col- 
•ed as the body) long and broad, of a soft, delicate tex- 
ire, dropping alike, and nearly perpendicularly, down by 
le side of the clieek, with the convex of the ear turned 
^ther out than in. This is termed its ' earage.'' The color 
Q the body must be in strong, rich, unbroken masses, 
preading itself uniformly over the back, sides, and 
aunches, called the 'saddle^'' but breaking into spots and 
atches on the shoulders, known as the ' chain.'' The 
ead must be full of color, interspersed with white on the 
irehead and cheeks, while the darker marking on the 
oint of the nose, and on each lip, goes by the name of 
le '' butterfly ^^ from the resemblance it should bear to 
lat insect. Add to all this a large, full dew-lap, beauti- 
illy white, which spreads itself (when the animal reposes) 
ver the fore feet, and forms a rich cushion for the head. 
l11 this, combined, would indeed form a perfect lop-eared 
a.bbit, worthy to enter, and likely to win the prize collar, 
e it of gold or silver ; and the breeder may be proud of 
is success, though it be but a rabbit. Much consequence 
5 attached to the length, quality, and carriage of the car^ 
1 awarding premiums. I was indifferent to this point of 
mgth, and purchased much lower in consequence, paying 
rom ten to forty shillings sterling apiece for those I im- 
ported, according to age and quality ; whereas five guin- 
2* ^ 



32 THE BABBIT. 

eas is not an uncommon price ; and individuals have been 
sold as higli as thirty guineas ! The consequence of my 
selection is, that out of fifty rabbits, in my rabbitry, I 
have not one that will exceed eighteen inches length of 
ear from point to point I Whereas the Illustrated JVew^ 
of May, 1850, gave portraits of the two prize rabbits at 
the Eochester Show, from the excellent stud of Mr. George 
Tavell, measuring in length of ear 21 f inches and 21 f 
inches, and nearly five inches wide." J 

" The usual colors are black, blue, gray, yellow, ana 
tortoise-shell, on whit-e grounds. These are called ' broken 
colors;^ when not mixed with either, they are termed 
'selfsr' ; 

" The rabbit easily conforms itself to the means, condi-j 
tion, and circumstances of its owner: occupies but little 
space, breeds often, comes early to maturity, and is^ withal,;' 
a healthy animal ; requiring, however, to be kept clean,; 
and to be cautiously fed with succulent food, which must; 
always be free from dew or rain. Water is imnecessary 
for them when fed with ' greens.' " 

" To does, when suckling, I give what they will eat ofj 
both green and dry food. The cost to me is about three 
cents a head per week." 

*'My young rabbits, when taken from the doe, say at 
eight or ten weeks old, are turned out together till about 
six months old, when it becomes necessary to take them 
up and put them in sej)arate hutches, to prevent their 
fighting and destroying each other. The doe at that age 
is ready to breed ; her period of gestation is about thiny- 
one days, and she produces from three or four to a dozen 
young at a ' litter.' It is not well to let her raise more 



FEEDING. 53 

jhan six,* or even four, at a time — the fewer, the larger 
jLnd finer the produce." 

Young rabbits are killed for the table at any age from 
welve weeks to twelve months old, and are a very ac- 
ceptable addition to the country larder. 
j " Hutches are made singly, or in stacks, to suit the 
ipartments, which should be capable of thorough ventila- 
tion. The best size is, probably, about three feet long, 
:hough some recommend four feet, two feet deep, and 
burteen inches high, with a small apartment partitioned 
Dff from one end, nearly a foot wide, as a breeding-place 
Ebr the doe. A Avire door forms the front, and an opening 
lS left behind for cleaning; the floor should have a descent 
jO the back of the hutch of two inches. All edges should 
be tinned, to save them from being gnawed." 



KABBIT COURTS. 

^Tepjiaps the most pleasing, and, for the animals, the 
most healthy place to keep rabbits in, is a paved yard. 
If well situated, it becomes, in fact, a practical realization, 
on a small scale, of Olivier De Serres' grand idea. Two 
sides of the court-yard may be bounded by tall buildings, 
as houses or stabling ; if they stand to the north and east, 
so much the better. The other two sides should consist 
of a wall not more than five feet high, to admit air and 
sunshine. For security from intrusion from without, and 
to confine any fowls that may be kept within, palings 
may be fixed to the top of these low walls, without any 
inconvenience arising. The great object is to have the 
court at once airy, sunshiny, sheltered, and secure. In 
one or two corners of the court, or against one or two of 
its sides, there should be thrown a broad heap of earth 
and rubbish, eighteen inches lower than the top of the 
wall. In this, the rabbits will burrow and amuse them- 
selves — though it is better to prevent the does from nest- 
ing there, for fear of the attacks of cats and rats. The 
buck must be retained a close prisoner, in a box of his 
own. The breeding does, when their time of kindling 
approaches, will be comfortably settled in separate hutch- 
es, to be described hereafter. The day when each doe is 
to bring forth will be known from the stud-book, even 
if it is not indicated by the preparations she makes-— 

(34) 



EABBIT-COURTS. 85 

uch as carrying about stra^vs and haulms in lier mouth, 
nd biting them into separate lengths. The rest of the 
took will associate indiscriminately together in the court, 
nth the sole exception that all males will be withdrawn, 
ut, or sent to the kitchen, as soon as they reach an age 
prove troublesome ; and that young ones just weaned, 
hat is, from six to eight weeks old, will be kept in a 
autch by themselves till they are strong enough to join 
he general herd. 

The management of the rabbit court is obvious. Food, 
Either dry or green, has only to be scattered about on the 
pavement of the court. The small jDroportion of individ- 
uals in confinement will, of course, require extra atten- 
tion, which will demand no great time to fulfil properly, 
i^ll that is necessary is, to do it regularly and unfailingly. 
Rabbits so kept are much more amusing objects than 
^vhen they are constantly hidden from sight in their 
tiutches. Their gambols are seen — their little antics with 
ne another — their cleanly habits in brushing their fur 
boats — 'and even the petty quarrels and jealousies which 
arise from the elder ones striving for the mastery. They 
Hvill also become so tame as to eat out of the hand, and to 
nock around their feeder when he enters with a bundle of 
vegetables or straw. The whole stud should be so liber- 
ally supplied with provender, that those intended to be 
eaten may be able to fatten upon it ; the growing and 
the breeding rabbits will amply repay the share they 
consume of this liberal diet, by the rapidity with which 
they come to hand, and the strength and thriftiness of 
the litters they bring forth. A rabbit court like this is 
particularly convenient for consuming the refuse, and 



36 THE RABBIT. 

sweepings of a large kitclien and flower-garden. W' 
strongly recommend a rabbit court to those whose prem 
is«3s and situation allow of such a plan being adopted. 



RABBIT PIT. 

Another form of dwelling, imitating in some degree thd 
natural habitation of the animal, though less so than thd] 
court, is the rabbit pit. One of this kind is described ir 
"Farming for Ladies," and annexed we give a wood-cut fron 
the sketch in that work. The enclosure was only aboui 
twelve feet in diameter, covering a pit of six feet in depth, 
in which the rabbits were confined, and through the sand} 
sides of which they burrowed to the extent of from ten tc 
fourteen feet to make their nests. The proprietor, hoW" 
ever, it was said, intended to fill up three feet of the depth, 
as he thought that the rabbits should be brought nearer tc 
the air. The mode of catching the rabbits in the pit was 
with a long stick, forked at the end, which was hooked 
upon their neck when they came out to feed ; or they were 
snared with a bit of wire fastened to the end of a stick. 

We quote another rabbit pit from the Agricultural 
Gazette: — "In the Isle of Thanet, on the east coast of Kent,: 
the writer witnessed and superintended, on his own prop^ 
erty, the method which he now proceeds cursorily to^ 
describe, and the diagram on page 41 will tend to define^ 
the limits of the spaces required. 

" No. 1 represents a pit five feet on each side of the 
square. It is an oblong, four feet long, and about two feet 
broad. Both are dug to the depth of six feet, perfectly 




RABBIT PIT. 



(87) 



RABBIT-PITS. 



39 



vel at tlie bottom and sides, tlie latter so mucli wider 
an the wooden curbs, as to admit of a facing of four-incli 
ick-work, in cement, excepting the spaces to admit of 
)ont six arched openings (as marked) of dimensions snf- 
dent for the passage of the largest rabbit. 2, is the feed- 






CO 




u ^- 


U 

c 


^ 




n 


c 

n 



ig department. 3, is only an arched passage, tunnelled at 
le ground level of the bottom of the two pits, about a foot 
ide and broad, to serve as a communication between the 
its. This is also bricked and arched, but is not seen at the 
pp. A covering of oil cloth is added to the curb of each 
it, and the cloth extends over the frame several inches 
|eyond the curb, in order to prevent the entry of the 
'eaviest rain. At the place op, the arched, passage is 
Iways ox)en ; and so it is also at the other extremity, 



40 THE RABBIT. 

marked tr^ excepting only when any of tlie rabbits are 
be taken. Dryness is essential to the prosperity of th 
animal, therefore the soil should not only be naturally dr 
but must be protected above, and kept secure at the sid« 
and bottoms of the pit by the best brick- work. Froi 
Avhat has been stated, it will be understood that a soue: 
gravelly or sandstone soil forms by far the most approprial 
medium for the warren, which the rabbits burrow intd 
and excavate according to their own requirements. Foi] 
does and a buck may be reckoned a good breeding stocki! 
and something of the kind was found when the write 
purchased the property." I 

The general idea of a rabbit pit being thus suggestec 
it will be easy for an amateur to modify it at his pleasure 
Of the two specimens given, we would only observe tha 
they both appear too small in their dimensions. A pit 
also, is not a nice thing to have on one's premises. W' 
doubt whether animals kept constantly below the surfao 
of the ground avouM be maintained in such good healt} 
as those above it. Undoubtedly, the most perfect arrange 
ment would be a combination of the rabbit court with tb 
rabbit pit. j 



BABBIT HUTCHES. 

We now come to wliat appears the simplest of all mat- 
rs, and wliicli yet, if it be not well contrived, will liave 
most influential effect in causing failure. From a tea- 
lest to a worn-out portmanteau or a leaky tub, any- 
ing lias been thought good enough to keep a rabbit in. 
Everybody," says Cobbett, " knows how to knock up a 
bbit hutch." If the rabbits themselves could only speak, 
ey would tell us that many a body sets about it in bung- 
ag manner, and proves himself profoundly ignorant of 
le fundamental principles of rabbit architecture. 
To learn these, we must go to the warren. There we 
ad that the rabbit makes its dwelling in a sandy soil, and 
lerefore well drained ; in hillocks and mounds, in prefer- 
pce to hollow bottoms, and therefore dry. The burrows 
equently communicate with each other, and therefore 
low a certain amount of ventilation, the wind blowing 
Ito the mouth of the hole being often sufficient to insure 
aat. The thick stratum of light earth which covers the 
pibitations of a colony of rabbits, causes coolness in sum- 
ler and warmth in winter. In the depth of a burrow it 
ever freezes, and is never oppressively hot. In short, 
I'ith the exception of the absence of light, which is of little 
nportance in a sleeping -place^ a rabbit's burrow, magnified 
:> corresponding proportions, would make, at a pinch, a 

(41) 



42 THE RABBIT. ^| 

very bearable dwelling for human beings devoid of otlier 
shelter ; the nest which a doe prepares for her young i.s 
soft and warm enough for a baby to lie in, if sufficiently 
enlarged. And in truth, many thousands of our felluw- 
creatures spend their lives, are born, and die, in cellars 
which are less wholesome than a rabbit's burrow on this 
large imaginary scale would be. 

Whatever form of hutch, therefore, be adopted, it should 
be well sheltered, if possible ; it should stand v/ithin an- 
other airy building, or at least under cover. Its tempera- 
ture should never descend to the freezing point, nor mount 
beyond summer heat — scarcely so high, if it can be avoided. 
On this account, rabbit hutches, or cabins of brick- work, 
built in a court, offer many advantages ; if made of wood, 
the material should be solid. Were we now to recom- 
mence rabbit-keeping, we would contrive a hutch whose 
top should be thatched with straw and reeds, to avoid all 
sudden chills, as well as bakings and broilings from the 
noontide sun. Of course, all sorts of drippings from eaves, 
draughts of air, and inundations from bad drainage, should 
be placed out of the possibility of annoying the rabbits. 
Many stocks, unfortunately, are constantly exposed to nil 
these evils. Their owners then complain that they do 
not succeed, and lay all the fault of the failure to 
the poor, good-for-nothing, troublesome, and tender 
creatures. 

"For this reason, hutches should never stand on the 
level of the ground ; they should be raised at least a few 
inches (though a foot or tAvo is better), either on legs or 
benches. The wood of which they are constructed ouglit 
to be thick, more for the sake of warmth than for strength j 




SECTION" OF A TWO-TIER RABBIT HUTCH. 



(-J3) 



EABBIT HUTCHES. 45 

if the rabbits do happen to gnaw them, ten to one it is 
e more for the want of chy food and an irresistible 
iring after it, than for mischief's sake. The dimensions 

vary according to circumstances, and every amateur 

suit his own convenience ; but no hutch to contain a 
le full-grown rabbit, ought to be less than a good yard 
are in area. The depth is of less consequence. 
¥e now give a wood-cut of a form of hutch which has 
ly advantages, and which is useful where a large stock 

ept, because it is capable of being repeated to any 
ent in length, like a row of houses, and also, as the 
exed figure shoAVS, may be constructed with a couple of 
ies or more. The first, or false bottom (2), is a frame- 
[•k of strong splines, with a sufiicient interval between 
HI to allow the urine and small fragments of offal to 
s through. About an inch beneath this first bottom is 
icond (1), of wood, covered with zinc. It is fixed with 

ntle slope from back to front, to aid the escape of the 
le to the gutter, which will be conveyed to a pail (7) 
means of a tube (6), which communicates with the 
ined bottom of each hutch. This bottom ought to be 
^able, slipping in a groove, in order that it may be 
-e easily cleansed. To avoid all likelihood of infection, 

bucket which receives the urine should be carefully 
3tied twice a day, and well rinsed out ; for the urine 
he rabbit is the sole cause of any offensive smell which 
r emanate from a hutch. The door of the hutch (5) is 
ame of wire-work, suspended at the top by a couple of 
ges, and opening at the bottom. It is kept shut by a 
k or a button. Doors like these are easy to open, and 
w a convenient means of changing the litter, which 



4:6 THE IIABBIT. 






requires to be removed from time to time. If preferr^ 
however, the door may go to slip in a groove, or to ope 
at the side ; but the former plan is altogether the besi 
Each 1 utch should be furnished with a little rack, lixc 
against one of the sides, to prevent the rabbits from Avas; 
ing their food; for, like other of our domestic animaJ- 
they will reject the ^Dro vender which they have once trot 
den and blown upon. In courts, a little rack on the modt 
of a sheep rack is not only a pretty toy, but a useful art: 
cle of furniture. At the back a little trough or mange 
should be fixed, to hold the bran and corn which is desi; 
able for all, but more especially for nursing-does. Tt 
troughs for hutches in which weanling rabbits are kq 
should be very narrow, to prevent the little ones from ge 
ting into them. 

Besides the hutches destined for does, there should I 
one of larger dimensions for the buck, not only to accoii 
modate his robuster proportions, but to allow a doo i 
spend the night with him con\reniently. 

" This matter of rabbitry," observes Mr. Allen, in ^\ 
" Eural Architecture," " and its various explanations, mi 
be considered by the plain, matter-of-fact man, as belo 
the dignity of people pursuing the useful and money -makvi 
business of life. Yery possible. But many boys — f 
whose benefit they are chiefly introduced — and men eve 
may do worse than to spend their time in such appare 
trifles. It is even better than going to a horse-race. It 
better even than going to a trotting match, where /^.^ nu 
as well 2,^ fast horses, congregate. It is better, too, than 
thousand other places where boys want to go wlien tb 
have nothing to intcR-^t them at home. * 



RABBIT HUTCHES. 47 

)ne lialf of the farmers' boys, wlio, discontented at 
ae, leave it for something more congenial to their feel- 
3 and tastes, do so simply because of the excessive dul- 
s and want of interest in objects to attract them there, 
[ keep them contented. Those who have been well 
[ indulgently, as well as methodically, trained, may look 
k and see the influence which all such little things had 
)n their early thoughts and inclinations ; and thus realize 

importance of providing for the amusements and pleas- 
s of children in their early years. The dovecote, the 
bitry, the poultry - yard, the sheep-fold, the calf- pen, 

piggery, the young colt of a iavorite mare, the yoke of 
,rling steers, or a fruit tree which they have planted 
L nursed, and called it, or the fruit it bears, their 
I — anything, in fact, which they can call theirs — are 
nany objects to bind boys to their homes,- and hallow 
rith a thousand nameless blessings and associations, 
)wn only to those who have been its recipients. Heav- 
8 blessings be on the family homestead!" 
Nq will now present the elevation and floor plan of 
. Rodman's rabbitry, from Mr. Allen's work, together 
h the front and rear views of the hutches within them. 

^o. 1 is the gable end elevation of the building, with a 
)r and window. 

'To. 2 is the main floor plan, or living-room for the 
l^its. 

^IxPLANATiON. — A, the doe's hutches, with nest boxes 
iched. B, hutches three feet long, with movable par- 




No. I. — GABLE END ELEVATION, 




No. II.— MAIN FLOOR PLAN 



(48) 



RABBIT nUTCHES. 49 

tions for tlie young rabbits ; the two lower hutclies are 
ised for the stock bucks. C, a tier of grain, boxes on the 
oor for feeding the rabbits — the covers sloping out 
)ward3 the room. D, small trap-door, leading into the 
manure cellar benoi h. E, l.irg3 trap-door, leading into 
le root cellar. F, troughs for leading off urine from rear 
f hutches into the manure cellar at K, K. G, wooden 
:unk, leading from chamber above Ko. 3, tluough this 
^to manure cellar. H, trap opening into manure cellar. 

stairs leading into loft Ko. 3, with hinged trap-door 
!ver head ; when open, it will turn up against the wall, 

d leave a passage to clear out the hutches. 

Note. — The grain boxes are one foot high in front, and 
fteen inches at the back, with sloping bottoms and sloping 
t)vers. The floors of the hutches have a slope of two inches 
ack. The hutches are furnished, at the back of the floor, 
ith pieces of zinc, to keep them free from the drippings 
om above. The hutches are sixteen inches high, three 
;et long, and two feet deep. 

The foregoing plans and explanations might perhaps be 

ifficient for the guidance of such as wish to construct a 

^bbitry for their own use ; but as a complete arrangement 

If all the rooms which may be conveniently appropriated 

b this object, to make it a complete thing, may be accept- 

ble to the reader, we conclude, even at the risk of pro- 

^xity, to insert the upper loft, and cellar apartments, with 

Irhich we have been furnished ; hoping that our youthful 

riends will set themselves about the construction of a 

franch of rural employment so home-attaching in its 

issociations. 

3 




i ^ ' ' ' ■ ' ' ' ' ' 



No. III. — LOFT, OR GAERET. 



(80) 



No. IV. — CELLAR. 



KABBIT HUTCHES. 51 

Iso. 3 is tlie loft or chamber story, next above the main 
loor. 



Explanation. — A, place for storing hay. B, stairs 
eading from beloAV. C, room for young rabbits. D, trap- 
loor into trunk leading to manure cellar. E, partition 
bur feet high. This alloAvs of ventilation between the 
wo windows, in summer, which would be cut off, were 
he partition carried all the way up. 

No. 4 is the cellar under the rabbitry. 

Explanation. — A, manure cellar. B, root cellar. C, 
;tairs leading to first, or main floor. D, stairs leading 
mtside. E, mndow — lighting both rooms of cellar. 

Ko. 5 is a front section of rabbit hutches, eight in num- 
3er, two in a line, four tiers high, one above another, with 
vire-screened doors, hinges, and buttons for fastening. 
A., the grain trough, is at the bottom. 

Ko. 6 is the floor section of the hutches, falling, as before 
nentioned, two inches from front to rear. A, is the door 
io lift up, for cleaning out the floors. B, is the zinc plate, 
;0 carry off the urine and running wash of the floors. C, 
is the trough for carrying off this offal into the manure 
cellars, through the trunk, as seen in No. 2. 

No. 7 is a rear section of hutches, same as in No. 5, with 
|the waste trough at the bottom leading into the trench 



52 



THE RABBIT. 



before described, witli the cross section, No. 8, l-efore' 
described in Ko. 6. 

A, a grated door at the back of tbe liutcli, for ventila- 
tion in summer, and covered with a thin board in winter. 

•J 4,i||Vltlill!ll1niill llll!.llllllt 'll:ii:Hl'i|ilt>HipVi".illintll- 'H'lMl Villl'limil'iri'l if^ 



— CO 




- 0» 



IWMI^ 



I 



B. a flap-dooi-, fjiir iaches wide, which is raised for clean- 
ing out the floor ; under this door is a space of one inch, 
for passing out the urine of the rabbits. C, are buttons 



RABBIT HUTCHES. 



53 



for fastening tlie doors. D, the backs of tlie bed-rooms,' 
without any passage out on back side. 

When rabbits are kept on a large scale, the hutches are 
assembled in one inclosure or building, which should be 



:V'i,'ii'i!!ii 'i|||i|iii 




covered with a roof and surrounded with walls to secure 
it from the weather, and the depredations of cats, rats, and 
other vermin. It is desirable that the inclosure be paved 
with square tiles; which should have their joints well 



54 THE KABBIT. 1 

closed with cement, in order to prevent all leakage oi 
urine or slops beneath, the pavement. This accident i 
one of the causes most likely to engender disease amongs i 
the stock. The reason is plain : the earth on which th( > 
pavements rest becomes sodden with liquid filthy an un ■ 
pleasant smell is constantly exhaled, and whatever cleanli 
ness may be observed above ground, beneath is a fertile < 
source of epidemic maladies, which will go on increasing 
from month to month, and will sooner or later cause serious 
injury. In this inclosure rows of hutches are ranged one 
or more stories high. The first row will touch the wall ; 
a passage will be left between that and the next row, and 
so on, till the inclosure is full, when you have a series of 
parallel passages and rows of hutches, allowing free ven- 
tilation and easy access of the persons who tend them. 

In such an establishment, a constant renewal of air is a 
matter of the first necessity, T\rhich may be insured by 
fixing in the wall small grated windows opposite each 
other. If unpleasant smells are perceived, on entering in 
the morning, it is a hint to the rabbit-keeper to look to his 
litter and his ventilation. Hutches that are too small and 
too closely crowded together — ^that are cold and damp, or 
dirty and foetid — are suJG&cient in themselves to bring on 
all the diseases to which rabbits are liable. Their result 
is loss of health, ophthalmia, want of appetite, diarrhoea, 
pot-belly, rot, mange and death. In the first stage of these 
disorders, something may be done by vigorous sanitary 
measures of cleanliness and ventilation, with judicious 
feeding and disinfection by means of chloride of lime. 
Eabbits are naturally of a robust constitution, and are but 
slightly liable to be attacked by small ailments ; but when 



I 



RABBIT HUTCHES. 



55 



hey do become diseased, Ave may be sure that tbe evil is 
t)f serious consequence. 

We next give tbe figure of an independent butcb with 
two apartments, which has been found very useful to con- 
;ain a doe and her weanling young, before they are old 
md strong enough to join the other fatting rabbits in the 
30urt. It is also useful for the young beginner who is 
making his first trial with two or three half-grown indi- 
viduals of the sort of which he fancies. It is easily moved 
ander shelter or into the open air, easily tended and cleaned 
out, and not costly to make. 




TWO-KOWED HUTCH, 



ISTos. 1 and 2 are the drainers, the second twice as large 
as the first, communicating with a sliding-door D, which 
can be opened or shut at pleasure. At each end is also a 
door. The roof E, E, in separate pieces, is on one side a 
wooden lid, moving on hinges at the top, and available 
either to put in food or hay, or to catch the animals within. 
T T, are smaU troughs in front, for the reception of oats, 



66 THE RABBIT. 

pollard, or peas. A little rack may be added at the bad 
part ; and an iron handle at each end, or at H, will enabl 
a couple of persons to lift it from place to place with ease 
It stands upon legs to raise it from the damp ground, an( 
to keep mice from getting in and stealing the grain. Thr 
floor is pierced with holes to let the urine escape ; othe:: 
ordure can be removed through the gap at the bottom 
into which the troughs are inserted, and which may alsc 
be contrived to admit a false bottom, like that of a birdl 
cage, but perforated, which every morning may be cleanec( 
and scraped, besides being sprinkled with sand or straw; 
The dimensions of this hutch will greatly depend upon 
the room which the amateur has at command ; but he will 
bear in mind, that the less cramped his pets are in theiil 
lodging, the better they will thrive. ' 



SELECTION OF STOCK. 

HOW TO COMMENCE RABBIT-BEEEDING. 

"We again call to our aid the little treatise on tlie rabbit 
bf Mr. Delamer. 

"To begin rabbit-keeping," says tbe author, "there are 
two modes of obtaining stock, which the amateur has the 
choice of adopting." This is in England. " The first plan 
is to purchase full-grown animals, a buck and as many 
does as may be required, and to let them breed once. 
Some persons are so little disposed to wait for the produce, 
that they will buy a doe or two far advanced with young, 
in order to see her progeny arrive as early as possible 
into the world. The second mode is to obtain one or two 
litters of young rabbits, after they are fairly weaned, at 
about nine or ten weeks old, and to tend them, and keep 
them, and to feed them up, till they are arrived at an 
age capable of being productive. Having ourselves repeat- 
edly tried these two modes at different times of our life, 
we unhesitatingly recommend the second for preference, 
for the following reasons : — 

In the first place, whoever sets about keeping any spe- 
cies of domestic bird or animal for the first time, will have 
a great many little details to learn, which will be most 
easily acquired by the observation of individuals sufficiently 

3* (57) 



58 THE EABBIT. 

advanced in life to do without the care of their parents 
and also immature as not to require quite yet the fulfilmer 
of the great law of nature, — ''increase and multiply. 
There will be nothing beyond themselves- to attend tc 
"We need only hint at the many points of health, dirt, hat 
its, and peculiarities both of breeds, individuals, and sexes 
with which the amateur will thus become practicall; 
acquainted, and which will render huTi more competen 
for the management of his pets when they come to hav' 
offspring in their turn. It is also a more economical plan 
requiring less outlay, and less liable to loss. Quite youn^; 
rabbits, of any ordinary kinds, can be bought both on th^ 
continent and in England for a few shillings. In case oJ 
failure, deaths are of less consequence ; in the event oi 
success, superabundant males, and ugly and unpromisint, 
females, will always be useful to make their appearance oi 
the table. But to buy full-grown does that have alreadj 
reared two or three litters, of handsome appearance, anc 
probably the favorites of their owner, the purchaser mus 
expect to open his purse-strings, especially if he applies tc 
a respectable dealer ; a disrespectable one might possibl} 
sell him, at a low price, a doe, which, though a good-look 
ing animal, may have some unseen but serious defect 
such as an invincible propensity to eat her young, or lurk- 
ing syniptoms of pot-belly and rot. Another point shoulc 
not be forgotten: some does, which have proved excelleni 
mothers with their old master, if changed to fresh quarters 
(particularly if they have to travel far) when near theii 
time of kindling, and tended upon by unaccustomed hands, 
and gazed at by strange faces, will not do well in their 
new abode. They are apt to make an imperfect nest, tc 



SELECTION OF STOCK. 59 

neglect their young, and even to kill them ; and this habit 
once begun, is ever afterwards to be apprehended. 

All these various mishaps, which have disgusted many 
a young beginner, are avoided by stocking the court or 
the hutches with young individuals, which can be selected 
.from, thinned out, or exchanged, till the amateur has got 
I a stud to his mind. All the males, be it observed, must 
I be secluded as soon as they are four or five months old, 
I If, after the foregoing caution, it be still determined to 
begin with a stock of full-grown animals, the points to be 
insisted on are, in the doe, teats visibly in a healthy and 
natural state, plump and swelled with milk if the term of 
pregnancy is advanced, or she has already httered; the 
head, with reference to the length of the muzzle and the 
breadth and development of the occiput, should form a 
sort of wedge ; ears long, broad, and fine ; chest expanded ; 
legs strong, and wide apart. As far as profit and fecundity 
are concerned, a doe ought to bring forth not less than 
eight at each birth on an average. If she constantly pro- 
duces less, it will be advisable to change her, even although 
she may be young and in good health ; for it is an acknow- 
ledged fact that all individuals are not equally suited for 
reproduction. 

The buck is at his best from one to five years of age ; 
the doe, from eight months to four years : of course, care 
will be taken to see that they are not pot-bellied. Hard 
and well - pelleted dung is a certain indication of. good 
health. It would be very convenient if there were unfail- 
ing signs, as in oxen, sheep, and horses, by which the 
exact age of a rabbit, up to a given period, could be ascer- 
tained ; but all that can be done is to distinguish vaguely 



60 THE EABBIT. 

an old one from a young one. The least equivocal symp. 
toms of old age are, the general solidity and thickness of 
the skeleton, especially at the joints, as far as they can be 
felt by handling ; the development of the belly to a con- 
siderable amount of obesity ; and finally, the length and 
thickness of the nails. 

Breeding does, when kept in hutches, are much better 
each in a hutch to herself, than inhabiting one common 
dwelling, however roomy it may be. When a number of 
does live in the same hutch, the consequences are some- 
times quite as unfortunate as if the buck were in company 
with them. K a doe kindles, and leaves her little ones a 
moment to feed, the other does immediately crowd round 
the nest, through an instinct of curiosity, peep into, and 
not seldom disturb it with their fore paws. The mother 
rushes up to drive the other does away ; a battle ensues ; 
and half the little rabbits are either killed or wounded for 
life. The pregnant does which take part in these skir- 
mishes, generally suffer abortion in consequence of their 
excitement, and the blows which they give and receive in 
the combat. Their owner may read the Eiot Act after- 
wards, but the mischief is done. 



VAKIETIES OF RABBITS. 

The Babbit is thougbt to have been originally a native 
rf Spain, but has been common in the rest of Europe for 
iges. By domestication tbe colors of this species, as of 
11 others which have been reclaimed by man, are very 
rarious: some individuals being black, blue, yellow, white, 
rray, lead color, and mixed in blotches of black and white, 
ilue'and white, &c.; one variety, called the Angora Rab- 
)its, is furnished with long sHky hair, something like the 
AtUgora Goat. 

The wild rabbits are only mentioned here to warn the 
.•eader against supposing that their young, if caught at an 
3arly age, will be of any use to bring up in a domestic 
jtate. Of aU the troublesome tasks a rabbit-fancier can 
andertake, is the attempt to rear a nest of young rabbits 
which have been taken from the warren, the field, or the 
down. We speak on this matter from experience. The 
difference of disposition is so immense and radical, that 
practical people are inclined to believe the two races to be 
derived from a distinct stock and origin. " Fancy rabbits," 
says Mr. Rogers, in his useful little treatise, '' are not, as 
is generally supposed, the result of an improvement in the 
JEnglish breed of rabbits ; but were originally brought from 
iTartary, Persia, and Asia Minor ; and have been made the 
means'^of improving the domestic breeds in this country. 

(61) 



62 THE RABBIT. ! 

They require more warmth than the common English 
domestic rabbits ; and thrive best when kept in an atmos- , 
phere the warmth of which varies from temperate to snm- 'I 
mer heat." 

Domestic rabbits may be divided into four general lead- 
ing varieties : the Small Common Tame JRahhits, the Large 
Tame JRabhits, the Lop-eay^ed sorts^ and the Angolas. 
Between each of these there are numerous half-breeds. 
Angora rabbits are distinguished by having long silky 
hair ; their colors are mostly either pure white, or a mix- 
ture of black and white, or gray and white. Their fur iSiij 
valuable when the skins can be obtained in considerable i| 
quantity ; but they are delicate in constitution, less prolific, i 
and many prejudiced persons object to eating them, because, 
they say, they resemble cats. Notwithstanding which, 
Angora rabbits are very pretty creatures, and well deserve \ 
the attention of those who think more about beauty and 
amusement than profit. We once saw, some fifteen years 
since, quite a large number of these beautiful little Angora 
Rabbits, in a yard of the late H. Watson, Esq., of New 
Windsor, near Hartford, Conn. They were very tame 
and quiet, and made quite a handsome show. 

The common small farm rabbits are the nearest in size 
and appearance to the warren sorts. These are black, 
white, parti-colored, blue or slate colored, and brown or 
wild colored. They are hardy and prolific, suited for 
people living in a blustering climate, Avith only a limited 
supply of provender at command ; they suffer less from 
neglect than the others, — ^though the less of that misfor- 
tune they have to undergo, the better. They are cheaper 
to buy, and, in short, are just the stock for a boy to begin 

i 




ANGOLA RABBIT, 



(63) 



VARIETIES OF RABBITS. 65 

th, till his experience entitles him to aspire to keep the 
acy breeds. On the table, their flavor is as good as any, 
ough they make a less magnificent dish when served up 
lole. 

The large variety of tame rabbit is colored much the 
tne as the former, except that it is more likely to pro- 
ce albinos, — ^white individuals, with no coloring pigment 
their eyes, and thence called " red-eyed " rabbits, be- 
use the blood circulating in the fine transparent vessels 
sres them that tint. White lop-eared rabbits in general 
ve black eyelids and common eyes. With skilful man- 
ement and liberal feeding, the large variety may be 
ide to attain the weight of twenty pounds. That, or a 
fle over, is the maximum. French Flanders has long 
[en celebrated for, and still produces, admirable speci- 
ens of this variety. It can hardly be called a fancy 
bbit, since it has not the lop ears which distinguish 
ose breeds. It is merely an exaggeration or an enlarge- 
ent of the smaller kind, though an accurate eye will ob- 
rve that the proportions of its form are somewhat more 
ongated. 




HALF LOP 



(68) 



FA-I^CY RA.BBITS. 



LOP-EAK RABBITS. 

The lop-ear rabbits are tlie kinds avMcIl fanciers delight 
revel in. The ears, instead of rising from the bead, 
bh a tendency and inclination backward, like the com- 
>n or wild variety, fall more or less to the side, as if 
ly bad been folded and pressed down artificially, form- 
;, more or less, decidedly pendant ears. Some few 
rieties of goats and sbeep exhibit a similar malforma- 
•n, for so it may be fairly called. 

In rabbits, the first approximation to this peculiarity is 
bwn by the half -lop, where one ear falls downwards or 
)ntwise, and the other remains in its natural position, as 
3n. in the Frontispiece. The difference in the ears is very 
isightly, and is a great blemish in a fancier's eye ; because 
ears of all fancy rabbits ought to be exactly alike, 
)th in their shape, and in the way they point or fall, 
bherwise, it is as if a man had one short arm and one 
ng one, or one half of his face with a different sort of 
untenance from the other half ; and yet, a half-lop doe, 
her other qualities are good, is not to be hastily dis- 

(69) 



70 FANCY RABBITS. 

carded; because slie may, if judiciously coupled, produo; 
a few approved specimens in almost every litter. For i 
is curious that, with fancy rabbits, when both the parent 
are perfectly formed, have model ears, and are handsomel^^ 
marked, their progeny do not invariably turn out th 
same ; while from imperfect parents, if they have goo( 
blood in their veins, there is a considerable chance of reai 
ing at least a small number of superior young. Eabbil 
breeding, in such a case, acquires the same sort of interes; 
as the florist enjoys when he hopes to find in a bed oJ 
seedling dahlias or carnations a first-rate specimen or twcj 
that shall reward him for all his patience and expense 
Still, the chances of success are greater when both th' 
parents have the desired characteristics. 

The oar -lop is the next stage of deflection, when th 
ears extend horizontally outwards on each side, formin/' 
a line that is more or less straight, giving the idea of : 
pair of oars which a waterman is resting out of the wate: 
in his row-locks, while having a gossip as he is sculhnj 
along. The term "oar-lop" is sufficiently descriptive. ■ 

The liorn-lop rabbit has ears which descend obliqueh 
from the sides of the head, somewhat like the " cow witl 
the crumpled horn," in the immortal " House that Jacl 
built." 

Flat-lops are the most natural, and therefore the mos 
perfect and valuable, rabbits, in a fancier's estimation 
The ears of the animal, instead of pointing upwards an( 
backwards, take a sudden turn downwards and forward? 
immediately from the crown of the head. 

The dew-lap is a point not to be neglected in the appear 
ance of a fancy rabbit. It is sometimes compared to th i 




DEWLAP RABBIT. 



(71) 



THE RABBIT. 73 

.ew-lap of a bull, or to the pendant skin, hardly to be 
jailed a pouch, which hangs under the chin in the African 
oose ; but is really more like the double chin one some- 
.mes sees ornamenting the neck of a well-fed* old gentle- 
jian, or a full-blown matron, whose circumstances are 
asy, and whose labors are slight. It has the appearance 
f a goitre^ without its unseemliness, — though goitred la- 
ies are not without their admirers. The rabbit looks as 
; it had put on a fur tippet of the same material as its 
wn, by way of a comforter, serving also as a cushion for 
itie chin to rest upon, when "Bunny" is enjoying its 
rternoon's doze. A thick dew -lap is considered a great 
'eauty and recommendation, but it is only slightly visible 
11 the animal has arrived at its adult state. 



llARKINaS: THE SMUT AND THE 
CHAIN - CARRIAGE. 

Other points in fancy rabbits are more conventional 
id variable, and depend more upon individual taste, 
eculiarities which are the rage to-day, may be only coldly 
►oked upon to-morrow. Amongst these are those varic- 
es of the animal which are discriminated by the combi- 
xtion of colors respectively belonging to them. We 
iiote a paragraph from Mr. Eogers : — 

' The far of fancy rabbits may be blue, or rather lead- 
)lor and white, or black and white, or tav/ny and white, 
lat is, tortoise-shell-colored. But it is not of so much 
iaportance what colors the coat of a rabbit displays, as it 

that those colors should be arranged in a particular 
4 



74 FANCY BABBITS. 

manner, forming imaginary figures, or fancied resembla ' 
ces of certain objects. Hence the peculiarities of tli^ 
markings have been denoted by distinctive designatior 
What is termed the "blue butterfly smut" was for soi] 
time considered the most valuable of fancy rabbits. It 
thus named on account of having bluish or lead-colort 
spots on either side of the nose, considered as havii 
some resemblance to the spread wings of a butterfly, wh j 
may be termed the groundwork of the rabbit's face beiij 
white. A black and white rabbit may also have the fa<? 
marked in a similar manner, constituting a "black butte 
fly smut." 

"But a good fancy rabbit must likewise have oth 
marks, without which it cannot be considered as a perfe | 
model of its kind. There should be a black or bli, 
patch of fur on its back, called the saddle ; the tail mu: 
be of the same color with the back and snout ; while tl' 
legs should be all white ; and there ought to be dai 
stripes on both sides of the body in front, passing bad 
wards to meet the saddle, and uniting on the top of tt 
shoulders, at the part called the withers in a horse. Thei 
stripes form what is termed ' the chain,' having som^ 
what the appearance of a chain or collar hanging rouu 
the neck. 

" The beauty and consequent Avorth of a fancy rabbi 
however, depend a good deal on its shape, or what is terme 
its * carriage.' A rabbit is said to have a good carriag 
when its back is finely arched, rising full two inches abo\ 
the top of its head, which must be held so low as for tl 
muzzle and the points of the ears to reach almost to tl 
s^round." 



SALABLE VALUE. 

Mr. Eogeks says: — "The price of a fancy rabbit, like 
lat of any other curiosity, must depend upon its display- 
ig more or less qualities which, have been considered as 
onstituting the perfection of its kind. Considerable sums 
ave no doubt been sometimes paid for particularly fine 
pecimens of fancy rabbits. Well-bred rabbits may fre- 
uently be purchased at reasonable rates when young; 
nd if well tended and managed, they may afterwards 
rove very valuable." Prize rabbits have been sold at 
ve pounds sterling ; and even eighteen guineas have been 
aid for a prize rabbit. 

'To all this," says i?., in the Cultivator^ "I am well 

[ware, the question will arise with many of your readers — 

lui bono ? And the conclusion as definitively follow — 

't luonH pay.'' Perhaps not; and yet I believe that were 

ings tried on a small scale, and a small club formed for 

e purpose of exhibition and experiment, that it would 

ecome, to its members, a source of much more interest 

an they could noAV suppose. As opportunities will now 

come numerous of purchasing rabbits from the best 

jondon breeders, I will give you the following names : — 

[)r. Handy, just over Waterloo Bridge ; Mr. Payne, 142 

iVhite Chapel ; Mr. Bailey, of the Star Coffee-House, 

Jnion street, out of Bishopsgate ; Mrs. Webster, Pleasant 

(T5) 



76 PllOPEKTIES KEQUIKED FOll PEIZES. 

Place, Stamford street, Blackfriars Koad, over Waterloo | 
Bridge. From these breeders other addresses can be ob- 
tained, and stocks examined." We may add, also, that 
very superior specimens of the lop-eared rabbits may be 
obtained, in this country, of F. Kotch, Esq., and R. H. 
Van Rensselaer, of Morris (formerly Butternuts), Otsego 
County, New York. 



PKOPERTIES REQUIRED FOR 
PRIZES. 

In competing for prizes in England, there are seven- 
properties required :— First. Length of ears — the longer, 
the better. Second. The width of ears. Third. Carriage 
of the ears— ^. e., the way they fall. They ought to be 
nearly perpendicular in their fall— that is, so as to drop 
close to the outer corner of the eye. Fourth. The size 
and form of the eye— the larger and fuller, the better. 
Fifth. Color of the fur. These are blue and white, yellow 
and white, gray and white tortoise-shell, black and white, 
gray, black, blue, and white, with red eyes. Sixth. Shape. 
Of the general beauty of form, any common observer can^ 
judge. High forehead and broad poll are required for 
first-class animals. Seventh. Weight. At a little over 
seven months, the heaviest are from ten to twelve pounds. 
They are not permitted to compete for prizes beyond- 
eight months old. 

A correspondent of the Cottage Gardener states himself 
X<r be a rabbit-fancier of thirty years' standing, and that he 
bred the longest-eared rabbit ever known. He has he} 



THE RABBIT. 77 

(for it was a doe) preserved in a glass case. Her ears, 
from tip to tip, measured twenty-two inches, and eacli ear 
m width was five inches and three-eighths. Her weight 
was eighteen pounds. 

i 

FEEDINa AND KILLINGS FOK THE 
TABLE. 

The flavor of tame rabbits is improved by feeding 
them, a few days before they are killed, on aromatic 
plants, of which the list is numerous. Some people also 
fill the belly of the rabbit, after it is killed and drawn, 
with a wisp of thyme, marjoram, and sage. The usual 
mode of killing tame rabbits, by giving them a blow be- 
hind the ear, is faulty, and liable to the objection that a 
large quantity of blood coagulates about the place which 
is struck. It is better to kill them exactly like fowls, by 
cutting the jugular artery, and then to hang them up by 
the hind legs. In that position the blood drains away, 
and the flesh is rendered beautifully white. The skins, 
however, suffer, and sell for less if they are besmeared 
j with blood. The cook's perquisite is thus diminished ; 
and, in rabbit-keeping on a large scale, the reduction of 
price would be of serious importance. 



fev,. 



CASTRATION. 

The contempt with. wlucK sacli small cattle as rabbits ^c 
are usually regarded by practical people, is the cause why 
they are but rarely subjected to the operation of castra- 
tion, which, in their case, is performed with greater ease, 
and even with more satisfactory results, than on oxen, 
sheep, and pigs. We have eaten caponized rabbits ; and! 
they were far superior, in size, flavor, and fatness, to what 
they would have been if suffered to remain in their natu- 
ral state. We would advise every rabbit-keeper to cas- 
trate, at the age of three or four months, every young 
buck which he does not intend to dispose of or retain for 
breeding purposes. Besides the rapid increase in size, a 
great advantage gained is the conversion of a mischievous 
into an inoffensive animal. Instead of being often a dan- 
gerous enemy to the does, to the young ones, and to the 
other bucks (for the males, if not so treated, will engage 
in deadly combats when they meet), it may then be suf- 
fered to associate indiscriminately with the others, without 
fear or apprehension. 

The mode of castrating rabbits is very simple. It is 
performed by seizing with the thumb and the two first 
fingers of the left hand one of the testicles, which the 
animal will endeavor to draw up internally. When the 
operator has succeeded in grasping it, he divides the skin 

(T8) 



THE RABBIT. 79 

ongitudinally with a sharp knife, presses outwards the 
val body which he has seized, draws it out, and throws 
t away. After repeating the performance on the other 
ide, he anoints the wounds with a little fresh hog's lard, 
^r he closes them by a stitch with a needle and thread — 
ir perhaps he leaves the cure to nature. When the oper- 
ition is skilfully performed, the healing process is rapidly 
jompleted ; and it not only disposes the animal to carry 
L great deal more flesh and fat, but the skin also is con- 
iderably increased in value. 



DISEASES. 

THEIR PREVENTION AND CURE. 

" Amongst rabbits, as with poultry, diseases are more 
easily prevented than cured. We have seen advertised 

n the newspapers specific medicines for ailing rabbits. 

Koup and Condition Pills,' and * The Poultry Eestora- 
ive — a certain Cure for all Diseases,' may probably be 
fiseful tonics in the case of fowls ; but with the delicate 
Species of quadruped which is the subject of the present 
treatise, negligence and mismanagement are so fearfully 
Dunished, that it strongly behoves the amateur to take 

are that his arrangements and mode of feeding be such 
as to give him the least amount possible of disease to 
deal with. The loss of whole litters at once, or even a 
general mortality amongst his entire stock, will often be the 
consequence of carelessness and want of judgment. Many 
and many a small farmer and market gardener has made 



80 DISEASES. 

attempts to keep rabbits, and lias soon given tbem np 
again, in utter disgust at tlie complete want of success 
which has attended his efforts. A few plain nints might 
have saved him the disappointment, and have enabled 
him to conduct his experhnent Avith a more satisfactory 
and profitable result. On this account, Ave think it right 
to give a few short paragraphs on rabbit disease a place in 
our practical essay." 

Bedding. — " Thus, the quality of the litter given to do- 
mestic rabbits is a very essential point in rearing them: 
successfully. The bad state of that is the cause of many 
diseases to which they are liable. The straw used fori 
this purpose ought to be thoroughly dry, and frequently, 
renewed. Every three weeks, the entire mass of their' 
litter should be changed, especial care being taken to have 
it done a fortnight before the doe kindles, and a fortnight! 
after the birth of the little ones. It is a good plan, during 
the interval, to cover the old litter with a sprinkling of 
fresh straw from time to time," 

Injudicious disturbance, also, will sometimes have as- 
fatal an effect as a severe epidemic. We have seen thati 
it is absolutely necessary not to be too much in a hurry to 
look at the young ones, for at least a week after their 
birth. It should also be remembered that the rabbit is ; 
naturally an animal of nocturnal, or we ought rather to 
say crepuscular, that is, twilight habits. It is therefore 
an error to believe that it is requisite to give them a sub- 
stantial meal at noon ; on the contrary, nature and obser- 
vation indicate that they ought to be left in quiet at thati 
hour, when they are almost always in a state of repose, 
especially during summer. The best feeding-times are,. 



THE KABBIT. 



81 



ery early indeoi in the morning, and about sunset in the 
vening. They usually eat with the greatest appetite 
luring the night." 

Quiet — However, one little act of disturbance may be 
rentured upon with due precaution. A few days after 
iie birth of the rabbits, it will be advisable to ascertain 
\rhether their mother has deposited them in a dry spot ; 
or if their nest is at all damp, they will infallibly perish, 
n such a case, the nest must be cautiously moved, in a 
ump, and shifted to the driest corner of the hutch. Ex- 
)erience has proved that this operation, if judiciously exe- 
cuted, caused no injury whatever to the young, and also 
xave no offence to the mother ; but, after all, the expe- 
lient must be used with caution. The inconvenience 
rtrhich compels the rabbit-keeper to have recourse to it 
pught to be avoided by cleansing the hutches at regular 
Dcriods, so that there shall be no necessity to intrude upon 
he privacy of the doe's nursery at the time when she is 
likely to be of a susceptible and jealous disposition. For 
this purpose, it is requisite to note accurately the date of 
the doe's visits to the buck, in order to be able to change 
the litter in good time, and also to remove a first set of 
young ones, when there is a prospect of their soon being 
followed by a second. 

Ophthahnia.—'' Young are subject to a disease of the 
eyes, which is apt to attack them towards the end of their 
jsuckling, and which puts an end to them in a very short 
itime. The disease is unknown to those who are scrupu- 
lous about the cleanliness and drainage of their hutches. 
It appears to be occasioned by the putrid exhalations from 
filth o,nd urine in a decomposing state. In short, it is nei- 
4^ 



82 DISEASES. 

ther more nor le-ss than ophtlialmia, brought on by the' 
cauetic nature of ammonial vapor. When the malady is ' 
discovered in time, the young rabbits may sometimes be 
saved by transferring them into another hutch that is per- 
fectly clean, and well furnished with plenty of fresh 
straw." 

The Rot and Pot- Belly. — " The great cause of the short- 
ness of rabbits' lives in domesticity is their liability to the i 
rot^ or liver-disease, produced by their being supplied with li 
too much green food. Dry food, in shorty is the grand ;; 
thing to insure success in rabbit-keeping. That peculiar • 
quality of diet is so absolutely necessary to the animals' ' 
well-being, that ' DRY FOOD,' in capital letters, ought 
to be painted within sight of every rabbit menagerie,,! 
whatever may be its form, size, or importance. Even the 
wild races, in wet seasons, are found lying about dead, as 
if their warren had been stricken with pestilence. The 
rot is as fatal to rabbits as to sheep. Therefore a very ne- 
cessary precaution, which cannot be too strictly insisted 
on, is to avoid giving tame rabbits too great a quantity of 
green and succulent herbage, which not only causes nu- 
merous deaths from indigestion, but what is worse, is apt 
to bring on another disease, only of too common occur- 
rence, which is occasioned by the accumulation of an ex- 
cessive quantity of water in the abdomen and bladder, 
and which usually proves fatal. The patient, in fact, be- 
comes dropsical ; and even if apparently cured for a time, 
is so apt to suffer a relapse, that the wisest way is to part - 
with the animal. Rabbits so diseased are said to be ^pot- 
bellied ;' and when they get to an advanced stage of • the 
complaint, doctoring is of but little use, and generally of 



THE BABBIT. 83 

none at all. Common rabbits, in such case, are hardly worth 
the trouble of nursing. For fancy kinds of greater value, 
the attempt may be made ; but we much more strongly 
urge the observance of preventive than of remedial meas- 
ures. 

" The patients should be immediately put upon a drier 
diet. Pamper them with split peas, barley-meal, malt- 
combs, and oatmeal. Oak leaves, and the shoots of the 
tree, as food, are excellent. They should have hay, sound 
corn, and aromatic plants, such as thyme, sage, marjoram, 
l&c. In fact, all rabbit-masters who have a garden, will do 
well to cultivate an extra-sized bed of sweet herbs, as the 
best apothecary's shop which they can have recourse to in 
time of need. The whole family of umbelliferous plants 
' appear to be both grateful and medicinal to the rabbit 
tribe ; even hemlock and fool's parsley, poisonous plants 
to many other animals, are welcome as occasional dainties 
to them; hog- weed, or the wild perennial parsnip, has 
been recommended by Cobbett, with his usual force of 
natural eloquence. Garden parsnips and carrots are ex- 
cellent, both for their tops and roots; likewise fennel, 
parsley, and chervil. 

♦' If the sick quadrupeds are kept to a regimen that is 
absolutely dry, a little may now and then be given them ; 
at all other times, it is absolutely a forbidden thing. But 
wetted herbage, we insist, even if only moistened with 
dew, is poison to rabbits. The best mode of avoiding 
danger is to cut their food the day before, and spread it 
out, in the sunshine or under shelter, to dry and wither. 
On the other hand, it ought not to be cut several days 
beforehand ; for if thrown into a heap, and so left to heat. 



84 DISEASES. ' 

it k likely to prove equally injurious. Of course, all dis- 
eased individuals should be carefully separated from those 
that are in health. 

" The same prudential sanitary measure is imperative 
when rabbits are attacked by a sort of consumption, or 
* ro^,' which reduces them to the extreme of leanness, and 
they become covered with a contagious scabbiness, which 
is extremely difficult to cure. This disease, which attacks 
them when young, checks their growth, takes away theirij 
appetite, and at last causes them to die in violent convul- 
sions. If it is not arrested in time, it may soon spread 
throughout the whole of the stud. It is usually attributed 
to damp and superabundant moisture in various forms, 
which seem to be iiiortal enemies of the rabbit. As ^:)o^ 
helly^ or dropsy, is caused by a too succulent vegetable 
diet, so 'rot' is brought on by eating putrid greens, or; 
even those that are in the ' heated ' state of incijDient fer- 
mentation. It is believed that the repeated indulgence in 
this kind of unnatural and unwholesome food produces 
the purulent pustules with which the unfortunate animal's 
liver is sometimes entirely covered, as well as engender- 
ing, we knoAV not how, the parasitic creatures called 
flukes, or hydatids, that are found in the substance of the 
diseased liver. The remedies, with the addition of salt, 
are nearly the same both for ' pot-belly ' and ' rot ; ' in- 
deed, it is not very easy to distinguish them till after a 
somewhat advanced period. Flour of sulphur, sprinkled 
on the skin, has been recommended in case of mange or 
scab. The wisest way, however, is to prevent the further 
spreading of the contagious form of disease, by sacrificing 
at once the animal that is attacked bv it." 



THE RABBIT. 85 

Red Waitr. — Besides the former, there are a few mala- 
iies wMcli only make their appearance in badly-attended 
md mismanaged studs, or during unusually fatal seasons ; 
juch as red water^ produced by inflammation of the Idd- 
leys and a highly febrile state of the animal. High- 
jolored urine is then voided, in its worst stage mingled 
,vith blood. Bad food, acrid and poisonous vegetables, or 
udden chills, may either of them be the immediate cause 
Df the complaint. The remedy will be, mild mucilaginous 
bod, such as endive, dandelion, sow-thistle, lettuce (but 
lot after it sends up its seed-stalk), with cooked potatoes 
md bran, besides a warm and cleanly lodging. 

The Snuffles. — " This is occasioned by catching a vio- 
ent cold in the head, and may degenerate into bronchitis 
and inflammation of the lungs. Comfortable shelter, and 
protection from all draughts and wet, is the cure which 
common sense prescribes." 

Diarrhcm^ or undue looseness of the bowels, is the re- 
sult of eating too great a quantity of wet and acrid rub- 
bish. Dry food must be again the prescription ; add to it 
bread-crusts and the skins of baked potatoes. To avoid 
rthe evil, it should be particularly borne in mind that all 
changes of diet with a confined animal, especially from a 
drier to a moister — and in spring and autumn — should be 
gradually made. ISTo stock of any kind, not even of tran- 
sitions of regimen, ought ever to be given to the system 
lof so nervous a creature as the rabbit is. 

Rare Cases. — " Human pathology and surgery has its 
chapter exclusively devoted to rare cases ; the same thing 
occurs with fowls and with rabbits. One of these is fur- 
nished by a correspondent of the Cottage Gardener : — 



86 DISEASES. 

' On examining a rabbit of tlie lop-eared breed tc^day, ] 
found one ear completely filled with a hard matter resem 
bling scurf On touching the ear, the rabbit screamed out 
I then took as much of the hard stuff off as I could, anc 
bathed with warm water; after that, I greased the eai 
well. I took two pieces as large as a man's finger fron 
the ear, which seemed to reach quite to the farthest ex- 
tremity.' Many others, no doubt, might be added ; but 
they are more valuable as curious facts, than as being of 
any great practical utility." — Delamer. 











(88) 



AMERICAN OKAY KABBIT. 

1^ tlie Natural History of the State of Kew York, by 
T. De Kay, we find a full description and figure of the 
ative wild rabbit of this country, which we have copied 
■om that work. 

This common and weft-known species in the United 
tates has been, until very recently, confounded with otli- 
rs. The following, by Schreber, which seems to have 
een overlooked by modern writers, applies remarkably 
rell to our rabbit. Although misled by the accounts of 
revious naturalists, he appears to have confounded its 
jstory with the former species :— Cheeks full of thick 
:air. Ears thin externally, Avith few hairs, naked within, 
jnd when bent forward, do not reach the nose; when 
lent backward, they reach the shoulder-blades. Eyes 
irge and black, with four to five bristles above them. 
Whiskers mostly black ; some are white ; the longest ap- 
pears to reach beyond the head. Color in summer : -ears 
)rownish, with a very narrow black border on the outer 
nargin, of the same breadth of the tips, or becomes ef • 
faced ; brown cheeks, back, and sides ; fore and hind legs 
light brown externally, mixed with black ; all around the 
:-)reech white. Feet full of short hair, of a light brown, 
mmixed with black, changing towards the inside to a 
gray white. Upper part of the tail like that of the back 

(89) 



90 AMERICAN GRAY RABBIT. 

(perhaps mixed with black, as Pennant describes it black) : 
beneath, white. Throat white ; lower part of the necL 
bright brown, mixed with white ; chest and belly, insid( 
of fore and hind legs, white color in winter, when it does 
not change, white. 

Its food consists of bark, grass, wild berries, &c. ; and 
in cultivated districts, it is said to enter gardens and de^ 
stroy vegetables. Unlike its congeners, it does not confine 
itself to the woods, but is frequently found in open fields; 
or where there is a slight copse or underbrush. It does 
not burrow, like its closely allied species, the Europear 
rabbit, but makes its form, whiofe is a slight depression ir. 
the ground, sheltered by some low shrub. It frequentlj 
resorts to a stone wall, or a heap of stones, or hollow tree 
and sometimes to the burrow of some other animal. Ifc 
habits are nocturnal ; and they may often be seen in the 
morning, or early part of the forenoon, although in retiree 
situations they have been seen at all times of the day. lU 
flesh, though black and dry, is well flavored, although ir 
this respect it varies with the quality of its previous food, 
It breeds in this State, as I have been informed, three 
times in the season, producing from four to six at a birth, 
It is the smallest of the species found in this State, and sc 
much resembles in its form the European rabbit, that the 
same popular name has been applied to it, although differ- 
ing in color and some of its habits. This, however, is of 
no consequence, for the name of American Gray Eabbii 
is sufficiently distinctive. 

It has a wide geographical range. It is found from 
New Hampshire to Florida, but its Western limits are nol 
yet established. 




i 



I 



THE KABJilT. 93 

rhe author has noticed this rabbit on Staten Island, on 
croft's Mountain, east of the city of Hudson, on the 
le plains west of Albany, and also on the high-lands 
i plains of Saratoga. 



HE NORTHERN VARYING^ HARE. 

" All the species of the genus Lepus hitherto discov- 

;d in America," remarks the editor of the Cabinet of 

itural History, " have the habits of the Hare, though 

ey are generally called Eabbits." We will at present 

nfine our observations to the subject of our illustration, 

lich has given rise to some diversity of opinion among 

turalists, though it has long been known to hunters and 

r- traders as difl'erent from the common species. 

As was the case with almost all the American animals 

3embling those of the old continent, early naturalists 

nsidered it as identical with the analogous European 

iecies. The first description given of it in any detail is 

J Hearne. " The varying hares are numerous, and ex- 

nd as far as latitude 72^ N., and probably farther. They 

blight most in rocky and stony places, near the torders 

I woods, though many of them brave the coldest winters 

a entirely barren ground. In summer, they are nearly 

f the color of the English wild rabbit, but in winter assume 

'most delicate white all over, except the tips of the ears, 

'hich are black. They are, when full grown and in good 

Dndition, very large, many of them weighing fourteen 

r fifteen pounds." 

The dimensions of this species, on the authority of 



94 THE NOKTIIERN VARYING HARE. 

Bacliman, vary from seventeen to twenty -five inclies. f 
is remarkable how two observers liave so widely diffen*'^ 
in their accounts of the dimensions of the same specimeif 
Bonaparte gives the total length at thirty-one inched ^ 
Harlan's measurement of the same specimen makes it h ^ ' 
sixteen inches. These statements may be reconcile f° 
when we recollect that the latter measured from the specf 
men when recent, and probably represented the distamf 
from the nose to the extremity of the hind legs. f 

The American Varying Hare appears to inhabit a greif 
portion of North America, as it has been found in Yil^' 
ginia, and as far North as 55°. It appears generally \i 
frequent plains and low grounds, where it lives like tlrf 
common hare, never burrowing, but does not resort to ttP 
thick woods. The vaynabilis of Europe, on the contran 
is described as always inhabiting the highest mountain;' 
and never descending into the plains, except when force) 
to seek food, when the mountains are covered with sno\^| 
The American Hare is remarkably swift, never takin,i 
shelter when pursued, and is capable of taking astonishini] 
leaps : Captain Lewis measured some of these, and fount 
their length from eighteen to twenty-one feet. Warder 
however, states that this species, when pursued, will I'C 
treat into hollow trees. 

They, like all the hares, are very prolific, the femul( 
tiaving several litters a year, of five or six leverets at ; 
litter. 

The voice of these animals is seldom or never heard 
except when they are irritated or wounded, when the] 
utter a loud, piercing cry, bearing some resemblance t( 
that of a child in pain. We have been informed by ai 



THE KABBIT. 



95 



witness, that he saw an European buck rabbit attack 
pat, and rip open its bowels by a single stroke of its 
nd claws. 

One of the most remarkable peculiarities of this genus 
the difference of habits between some of the species, 
3sely allied as they are in their physical appearance, 
bus, the rabbit and the hare, although furnished with 
lalogous organs, and inhabiting in many instances the 
me countries, manifest the greatest aversion for each 

iher a hatred which M. F. Cuvier asserts nothing can 

)literate ; for, however nearly they assimilated in form or 
laracter, they never associate ; and, when they meet, a 
)mbat generally ensues, which often terminates fatally to 
ae of the parties. 

One striking point of dissimilarity between the hare 
ad rabbit is, that whilst the hare merely forms a shallow 
ollow in the earth for her form or nest, the rabbit 
xcavates deep and tortuous burrows. 
I If taken young, the hare may be tamed and domesti- 
ated, and has been nursed by a cat. Sonnini, the natu- 
a-list, and Cowper, the poet, had hares in a complete state 
f d(3mestication. Although exceedingly timid and watch- 
Lil, the hare is capable of being domesticated, and even 
aught a variety of tricks. 

One was exhibited in London, some time since, which 
tould play on the tamborine, discharge a pistol, and per- 
brin a variety of feats of as strange a character for an 
Inimal of so fearful disposition. 



COOKINQ RABBITS. 

Having in the foregoing pages given all tlie informi| 
tion we possess in regard to the selecting, breeding, an! 
general management of the rabbit, we will nowproceef 
to give a few recipes for cooking the same. 

Boiled Babbit, smothered with Onion Sauce. — Thej m.w 
be skewered and trussed, so as to come to table in a croucl*^ 
ing posture. Dust it with flour, as you would a boilef 
chicken, to make it come out the whiter. Tie it in I 
cloth ; if young, put it into boiling-hot water ; if old, intl 
cold water. The time of boiling must be entirely regi 
lated by the apparent age and tenderness of the rabbi, 
N. B. — Tomato instead of onion sauce is a much approve! 
variation of this dish. 

"While the rabbit is boiling, prej)are your onion sauc 
thus : — Peel your onions, halve and quarter them, pi] 
them on in a sauce-pan in cold water, boil till perfectl;; 
soft, strain them from the water, and then braid ther 
through a colander. To the pulp thus made add a lum' 
of butter and some thick cream, with a little pepper ant 
salt. Then make it just boil up, being careful that y 
does not burn, and pour it over the rabbit as it lies on iti 
dish. Serve at the same time a piece of boiled whit 
bacon to eat with it, and a tureen of melted butter. 



(90) 



i 



THE RABBIT. 97 

Roast Rahhit. — A genuine Wan^en Recipe. — Make a 
ircc-meat of bread-crumbs, minced beef-suet, lemon-peel, 
iitmeg, pepper and salt, and a little lemon-thyme, if 
^eet herbs are approved. Beat up two eggs, and mix 
ith them, the whole into paste. Put this force-meat 
Lside the rabbit, and sew it up, and skcAver it into the 
roper form. Rub the outside of the rabbit over with 
jutter, flour it a little, and stick on very thin slices of 
Licon by means of small skewers of iron wire. A French 
pok would lard them with a larding-needle. These slices 
E" bacon will roast up till they are become quite crisp and 
ry ; the fat which oozes from them will keep the rabbit 
loist and juicy. Still, it ought to be well basted while 
casting. Make a gravy with a small piece of beef (or 
le livers of rabbits, if they are not roasted inside), a 
hole onion put in without peeling it, some whole pepper- 
orns, a blade of mace, and a clove or two, with a small 
rust of bread toasted very dry and brown, but not burnt. 
Vhen the gravy is boiled enough, strain it, and a little 
atsup and flour well braided together. Make the gravy 
ust hoil up (not for a minute or two), before serving with 
he roast rabbit, in a separate tureen by itself. Some add 

glass of port wine to the gravy. 

Stewed Rahbit. — Cut the rabbits into joints. Half fry 
hem into butter, and lay them into a stew-pan. Fry some 
liced onions, and put them over the rabbit in the stew- 
3an, with a little powdered mace, pepper, and salt. Pour 
;uj0&cient water over them to cover them, allowing for the 
(V^aste by evaporation during cooking. The stew must be 
ione very slowly, only being allowed just to simmer. It 



98 COOKING RABBITS. i 

will take two hours to do it properly ; when enough, tak( . 
out each piece of rabbit and lay it on the dish on which i 
is to be served ; with the gravy which remains in the stew 
pan mix a pickled walnut finely and smoothly braided 
with a good tablespoonful of catsup and a dust of flour 
Set it over the fire, and pour it over your rabbit directlj 
that it shows symptoms of boiling up. 

Rahhit Pie. — Cut the rabbits into joints, and simply ste\^ 
them with water, pepper, salt, and pounded mace, tili| 
they are half done. Proceed then as for pigeon pie, put : 
ting veal or pork, or both, instead of the beef Cover witl: 
paste, and bake till enough. 

To Curry Rabbits. — Take a young rabbit or two, skin anc 
cut them into conveniently-sized pieces to serve, put then' 
into a frying-pan with some butter, and fry them of a nic( 
light brown color ; then place them at the bottom of you] 
stew-pan. 

Slice and fry six or eight large onions ; place them oveii 
the rabbit in the stew-pan. Then mix four tablespoonsfii: 
of best curry-powder and some good stock gravy (whicl, 
is a great point in insuring success), with salt, Cayenne^ 
pepper, nutmeg, three or four slices of lemon with the peeJ 
on, a small quantity of chopped pickles of all kinds thai- 
are at hand, and a glass of sherry. 

Boil well, and pour it over the rabbit and onions in the 
stew-pan ; let all simmer together for three hours ; serve ii 
up in a dish encircled with rice that has been boiled in the 
following manner : Put the rice in cold water, and wher 
it boils let it boil exactly sixteen minutes afterwards. Th( 



THE KABBIT. 99 

'venteerith minute would spoil it utterly. It is as with the 
liarmed bullets of Zamial, '^The six(-teeiith) shall achieve, 
le seven(-teenth) deceive." 



FRENCH WAYS OF OOOKINa 
RABBITS. 

Marinade of EdbUt — The French have the habit of 
;eeping or pickling many viands, especially white meats 
nd fi-esh- water fish, in what they call marinade^ or pickle, 
f various compositions. 

If you are going to make use of a tame rabbit, hulk it 
s soon as it is killed, and stuff the inside with thyme, 
ay-leaves, sage, basil, pepper, and salt. Koast it till it is 
alf done, and let it get cold. Cut it into joints, and put 
lem into a marinade composed of white wine (or cider), 
3mon-juice, and parsley, shallots, thyme, bay-leaves, and 

clove of garlic, all chopped up fine together. After they 
lave soaked an hour, dip them in butter, and fry them in 
il or butter which is not too hot. Fry them to a bright 
lear brown, and serve them dry, garnished with fried 
►arsley. 

Gihbelotte is the name of a particular mode of stew or 
ricassee, in which various meats and poultry may be 
erved. Gibbelotte of rabbit (which is the original gihelotte) 
b thus made: Cut a rabbit into joints. Put a lump of 
)utter into a stew-pan, and some lean bacon cut into slices. 
When they are browned take them out, and put your rab- 
bit in. As soon as it has had a toss or two, add a spoon* 

! 



100 COOKING RABBITS. 

fill of flour, a glass of white wine, and a glass of good 
broth, a little pepper and nutmeg, a dozen small onions, a 
few button muslirooms, or instead of tliem a dessert spoon- 
ful of mushroom catsup, and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
When the rabbit is done enough, take the fat off the i 
gravy ; thicken it if required, so that it be neither too i 
thick nor too thin ; pour it over the rabbit, and serve 
garnished, either with pieces of toast or of fried bread | 
round the dish. 

It is not an uncommon practice with French cooks to 
add an eel or two cut into short pieces^ when this and similar :: 
dishes are half cooked, and then to serve the whole together. 

Civet is the French name appropriated to a dish of stewed 
hare ; but rabbits are commonly dressed in the same way, 
when hares are out of season. 

Civet of Babbit is made by cutting it into joints, putting 
it into a stew-pan, and giving it two or three turas on the 
fire. Then add a dusting of flour, a liberal allowance of - 
red- wine, salt, pepper, and a few slices of bacon. Throw 
in some small onions that have been fried whole in butter, 
with a bouquet of sweet herbs. Make it boil up and skim i 
off the fat. As soon as it is done enough, take away the 
bouquet, and serve hot. N. B. — But a small quantity of 
the gravy should come to table. 

Babbit Pate. — A very useful standing dish may be made 
of any size, the larger the better. 

Have ready your rabbits ; cut them up into joints; have, 
also, an earthen or stoneware ^a^e-dish with a close-fitting 



THE RABBIT. 101 

bover. This kind of pate is made without any crust. At 
he bottom of the dish lay slices of bacon, and over that a 
,.ayer of minced meat, of any kind you happen to have at 
[land, mixed with ijhopped parsley, chives, a large clove 
()f garlic, mushrooms, and pepper. Upon this bed lay ihe 
ivhole of your rabbits, as closely as you can pack the 
bieces, and then the remainder of your mincc-meat, and 
liome more slices of bacon to cover the whole. Shake it 
fvell together. Throw in a glass or two of white wine, 
but the cover on the dish, and set it in the oven till it is 
lone enough. It must not be touched to be eaten until it 
s cold. 

En papilloites, or in curl-papers, is a favorite French Avay 
f serving small portions of meat, such as joints of poultry 
,nd game, chops, cutlets, &c. 

For rabbits in curl-papers, cut them into quarters if 
hey are very young, and into joints if they are full-grown ; 
jiarinade, or pickle them, several hours in a mixture of 
il, salt, pepper, catsup, and chopped parsley and chives, 
^rell mingled together. Have ready some oiled or buttered 
i^hite writing paper, prepared exactly as for cutlets en pa- 
nllotes; do up each piece of rabbit with a little of the 
easoning and a thin slice of bacon enclosed in the paper ; 
jrill them on a gridiron over a very slow fire, and when 
fiGj are thoroughly done serve them smoking hot irj the 
)aper, just as they are 

END. 



All the Boolcs on tlus Catalogue sent by mail, to anij part of the Union, 
free of postage, upon receipt of price. 

BOOKS FOR THE COUNTRY, 

rUCLISlIED BY 

C. M. SAXTON & COMPANY, 

140 FULTON STREET, NEW YORK, 

SUITABLE FOB 

i*CHOOL,TOWN, AGRICULTURAL, AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES. 



Downing's (A, J.) Landscape Gardening; $3 50 

A Treatise on the Theory and Practice of Landscape Gak- 

dening. Adapted to North America, with a view to the improvement of Country 
Residences, comprisina; Historical Notices and General Principles of the Art. Direc- 
tions for Laying out Gi-ounds and Arranging Plantations, the Description and Culti- 
vation of Hardy Trees, Decoration Accompaniments to the House and Ground, tiio 
Formation of Pieces of Artificial Waters, Flower Gardens, etc., with Eemarks on 
Rural Architecture, Elegantly illustrated, with a Portrait of the Author. By A. J. 
Downing. 

Downing's (A. J.) Rural Essays • • • • • 3 00 

On Horticulture, Landscape Gardening, Rural Architecture, 

Trees, Agriculture, Fruit, with his Letters from England. Edited, with a Memoir of 
the Author, by George Wm. Curtis, and a letter to his friends by Frederika Bke- 
MER ; and an elegant steel Portrait of the Author. 

Practical Fruit, Flower, & Kitchen Gardener's Companion, 1 00 

With a Calendar. By Patrick Neill, LL.D., F.R.S.E., Secre- 
tary of the Eoyal Caledonian Horticultural Society. Adapted to the United States, 
from the fourth edition, revised and improved by the author. Edited by G. Emer- 
son, M. D., Editor of "Johnson's Farmer's Encyclopedia." With Notes and Additions 
by E. G. Pardee, author of " Manual of the Strawberry Culture." With illustratioiis. 

Munn's (B.) Practical Land Drainer ; 50 

Being a Treatise on Draining Land, in which the most approved 
systems of Drainage are explained, and their differences and comparative merits dis- 
cussed; with full Directions for the Cutting and Making of Drains, with Remarks 
upon the various Materials of which they may be composed. With many illustra- 
tions. By B. Mtjnn, Landscape Gardener. 

Elliott's Am. Fruit-Grower's Guide in Orchard and Garden 1 25 

Being a Compend of the History, Modes op Propagation, Cul- 
ture, &c., of Fruit, Trees and Shrubs, with descriptions of nearly all the varieties of 
Fruits cultivated in this country ; and Notes of their adaptation to localities, soils, an«) 
a complete list of Fruits worthy of cultivation. By F. R. Elliott, Pomologist. 

Pardee (R. G.) on Strawberry Culture .... 60 
A CoxMPLETE Manual for the Cultivation of the Strawberry ; 

with a description of the best varieties. ^ , 

Also, Notices of the Raspberrv, Blackberry. Currant, Gjoseberry an( Grape ; with 
directions for their cultivation, and 'he selection of the best varieties. ^ Every pro- 



2 Boohs Fuhlished by C. ^I. Saxton & Co. 

cess here recommended has heen proved, the plans of others tried, and the result is 
here given.'" With a valuable Appendix, containing the observations and experience 
of some of the most successful cultivators of these fruits in our country. 

Dana's Muck Manual for the use of Farmers • . $1 00 

A Treatise on the Physical and Chemical Properties of Soils, 

the Chemistry of Manures ; including also the subject of composts, artificial manurei 
and Irrigation. A new edition, with a chapter on Bones and Superphosphates. 

The Stable Book • . 1 00 

A Treatise on the Management of Horses, in relation to Sta- 
bling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering and Working, Construction of Stabies, Y«^ntila 
tion. Appendages of Stables, Management of the F«et, and Management of Discaso<l 
and Defective Horses. By John Stewart, Veterinary Surgeon. With Notes and ad 
ditions adapting it to American Food and Climate. By A. B. Allen, editor of the 
A.merioan Agriculturist. 

Chorlton's Grape-Grower's Guide • 60 

Intended Especially for the American Climate. Belii": a Prac- 
tical Treatise on the cultivation of the Grape Vine in each department of Hot House, 
Cold Grapery, Ketarding House, and Out-door Culture. With plans for the construc- 
tion of the requisite buildings, and giving the best methods for heating the same. 
Every department being fully illustrated. By William Choblton. 

White's (W. N.) Gardening for the South ; • 1 25. 

Or, the Kitchen and Fruit Garden, with the best methods for 

their Cultivation : together with hints upon Landscape and Flower Gardening; con- 
taining modes of culture and descriptions of the species and varieties of the Culinary 
Vegetables, Fruit Trees and Fruits, and a select list of Ornamental Trees and Plants, 
found by trial adapted to the States of the Union south of Pennsylvania, with Gar- 
dening Calendars for the same. By Wm. N. White, of Athens, Georgia. 

Eastwood (B.) on the Cultivation of the Cranberry . . 50 

With a Description of the Best Varieties. By B. Eastwood, 
" Septimus" of the New York Tribune. 

Johnson's (Geo. W.) Dictionary of Modern Gardening . 1 50 

AViTH One Hundred and Eighty Wood Cuts. Edited, with nu- 
merous additions, by David Landeeth, of Philadelphia. 

Johnston's (J. F. W.) Catechism of Ag. Chemistry & Geol. 25 
By James F. AY. Johnston, AI.A., E.R.SS.L. and E., Honorary 

Meniber of the Eoyal Agricultural Society of England, and author of " Lectures '^n 
Agricultural Chemistry and Geology." With an Introduction by JouN Pitkin Nor 
TON. M.A., late professor of Scientitic Agriculture in Yale College. With Notes and 
Additions by the Author, prepared expressly for this edition, and an Appendix com- 
piled by the Superintendent of Education in Nova Scotia. Adapted to the use of 
schools. 

Johnston's (J. F. W.) Elements of Ag'l Chemistry . 1 00 

AND Geology. With a Complete Analytical and Alpharet- 

betical Index, and an American Preface. By Hon. Simon. Beown, Editor ot the 

" New England Farmer " 

Johnston's (James F. W.) Agricultural Chemistry 1 25 

Lectures on the Application of Chemistry and Geology to Ag- 

riculture. New edition, with an Appendix, containing the Author's Experiments in 
Practical Agriculture. 

Smith's (C. H. J.) Landscape Gardening, Pleasure Grounds 1 25 
With Practical Notes on Country Residences, Villas, Public 



Book& PMishcd by C. M Sax ton & Co. '6 

P'iTks and Gardens. By Chaelbs H. J. Smith, Landscape Gardener and Garden Archi- 
tect, &cW?th Notes and Additions by Lewis F. Allen, author of "Eural Architec- 
ture," &c. 

1 he author, while engaged in his profession for the last eighteen years, has olten been • 
requested to .'ccommend a book which might enable persons to acquire some general 
knowledge of the principles of Landscape Gardening. 

Tie oMect of the present work is to preserve a plain and direct method of statement, 
to be in dhgible to all who have had an ordinary education, and to give directions 
which! it is hoped, will be found to be practical by those who have an adequate 
knowledge of country affairs. 

orton's (John P.) Elements of Scientific Agriculture ; $0 60 

Or the Connexion between Science and the Art of Fracticai 

Farming (Prize Essay of the New York State Agricultural Society.) By John I 
jNoETONsM. A., Professor of Scientific Agriculture in Yale College. Adapted to the 
use of Schools. 

ash's (J. A.) Progressive Farmer . • ... 60 

A Scientific Treatise on Agricultural Chemistry, the Geology 

of \-ricnlture. on Plants and Aninials. Manures and Soils applied to Practical Agricul- 
ture r with a Catechism of Scieutiiic and Practi'cal Agriculture. By J. A. N A&n. 

men (J. Fisk) on the Culture of the Grape • • • 1 00 

A Practical Tr:^.atise on the Culture and Treatment of the 

Grane Vine embracing its history, with directions for its treatment m the United 
' States of America, in the open air and under glass structures, with and without arti- 
ficial heat. By J Fisk Allen. 

?lysteries of Bee-keeping Explained ; • • • . , ^ ^^ 

Being a Complete Analysis of the whole subject, consisting? of 

the Natural History of Bees; Directions for Obtaining the greatest amount of Puro 
Sm-pins Honey with the least possible expense; Kemedies for losses given, and the 
Science of Luclc. fully illustratt^l ; the result of more than twenty years' experience 
in extensive Apiaries. By M. Quinby. 

Mnerican Bee-keeper's Manual ; 1 00 

Being a Practical Treatise on the History and Domestic Lcono- 

my of the Honey Bee, embracing a full illustration of the whole subject with the most 
Sroved methods of managing this Insect, through every branch of ^ts Culture the 
result of many years' experience. Hlustrated with many engravmgs. ByT. B. Miner. 

Che Cottage and Farm Bee-keeper; 50 

A Practical Work, by a Country Curate. 

Sleeks (John M.) on Bees- A Manual ; .... 50 

Or an Easy Method of Managing Bees in the most profitable 

manner to their owner; with infxllible rules to prevent their destruction by the Moth. 
With an Appendix by Wooster A. Flandeks. 

Che Rose; A ' ^^ 

Being a Practical Treatise on the Propagation, Cultivation. 

and management of the Eose in all Seasons; with t"«t«f Choice and Approv^^^^^ 

ties adapted to the Climate of the United States; to which is added full direcaons lor 

the Treatment of the Dahlia. Illustrated by engravings. 

euist's (Robert) American Flower-Garden Directory ; • 1 25 

Containing Practical Directions for the Culture of Plants 

In the Flower-Garden, Hot-House, Green-House, Rooms, or Parlor Windows, tor every 
Month in he Year ; with a description of the Plants most desirable in each, the 
Nature of t e Soil and Situation-best adapted to their Growth, the Proper Season for 
Tian'rbmUn'^ &c.t with Instructions for erecting a Hot-House, Green-House, aud. 



i Books Fublished by C. M. Sax ton & Co. 

Laying out a Flower-Garden ; the whole adapted to either large or small Gardens j 
with Instructions for Preparing the Soil, Propagating, Planting, Pruning, Traininf;. { 
and Fruiting the Grapo Vine. ,, 

Buist's CRobert) Eamily Kitchen Gardener ; . • . $0 75 I 
Containing Plain and Accurate Descriptions ov all the Dif- 

ferent Species and Varieties of Culinary Vegetables, with their Botanical, English, 
French, and German names, alphabetically arranged, and the best mode of cultivating ■ 
them ill the garden or under glass; also Descriptions and Character of the most Selwt | 
Fruits, their Management, Propagation, &c. By Eobekt Buist, author of the " Amcri- j 
can Flower-Garden Directory," &c. Paper 50 cents. i] 

The American Florist's Guide ; 75 l 

Comprising the American Eose Culturist and Every Lady her [ 
own Flower Gardener. 

Every Lady Her own Flower Gardener; • . . 50 1 

Addressed to the Industrious and Economical only ; containing 

Simple and Practical Directions for Cultivating Plants and Flowers ; also, Hints foi j 
the Management of Flowers in Eooms, with brief Botanical Descriptions of Plants and 
Flowers The whole in plain and simple language. By Louisa Johnson. 

The American Agriculturist ; • 10 001 

Being a Collection of Original Articles on the Various j 
Subjects connected with the Farm, in ten vols. 8vo., containing nearly four thousand 
pages. ' 

The Complete Farmer and American Gardener ; • • 1 25 J 

Rural Economist, and New American Gardener, containing: ;i 1 

Compendious Epitome of the most Important Branches of Agricultural and Rural \ 
Economy; with Practical Directions on the Cultivation of Frviitg and Vegetables; j 
including Landscape and Ornamental Gardening. By T. G. Fjssseitden. 2 vols, in one. j 

Fessenden's (T. G.) American Kitchen Gardener; . • . 50 i 

Containing Directions for the Cultivation of Vegetables j 

and Garden Fruits. 

Dadd's (Geo. H.) American Cattle Doctor; . . 1 00 

Containing the necessary information for preserving tub 

health and curing the diseases of Oxen, Cows, Sheep, and Swino, with a ^t jat variety ol 
original receipts, and valuable information in reference to Farm and Dairy manage- 
ment, whereby every man can be his own Cattle Doctor. The principles tanght in this 
work are, that all medication shall be subservient to nature— that all medicines nuisj 
be sanative in their operation, and administered with a view of niding tlio vital pow- 
ers, instead of depressing, as heretofore, with the lancet or by poison. By G. H. Daud, 
M.D.. Veterinary Practitioner. 

Browne's (B. Jay) Field Book of Manures : . 125 

Or, American Muck Book ; Treating of the Nature, Pro]ierlics, 

Sources, History, and Operations of all the Principal Fertilizers and Manures iu Com- 
mon Use, with Specific Directions for their Preservation, and Application to the Soil 
and to Crops; drawn from Authentic Sources, Actual Experience, and Personal Ob- 
servation, as combined with the leading Principles of Practical and Scientific Agricul- 
ture. By D. Jay Browne 

Randall's (H. S.) Sheep Husbandry; . • • 125 

With an Account of the different Breeds, and g:eneral direc- 
tions in regard to Summer and Winter Management, breeding, and the treatment of 
diseases, with portraits and other engravings. By IIenky S. Kandall. 

Blake's (E,ev. John L.) Farmer at Eome. • • 1 25 

A Ea MIL Y Text Uoul: i-or. TUii Cointuv; btliig ti Cyclopedia o^' ^ 

I 



Boohs PuhlisJied by C. M. Saxton & Co. 5 

Agricultural Implements and Productions, and of the more Important Topics in Do- 
mestic Economy, Science and Literature ; adapted to Eural Life. By Eev. Joun L. 
Blake, D. D. 

Touatt and Martin on Cattle; ... . $1 25 

Bking a Treatise ox their Breeds, Management and Diseases, 

comprising a full History of tlie Various Eaces; their Origin, Breeding, and Merits; 
their capacity for Beef and Milk, liv W. Youatt and W. C. L. Martin. The whole 
forming a complete Guide U-.r \h- V:lr^^\i-v. (h ■ Amateur, and the Veterinary Surgeon, 
With 100 illustrations. Edited i.y Am^jkuse bTBvi;>-s. 

'ouatt on the Horse 1 25 

Youatt on the Structure and Diseases of the Horse, with 

their Ecmedies. Also, Practical Eules for Buyers, Breeders, Smiths, &e. Edited by 
W. C. Spooner, M.E.C.V.S. With an account of the Breeds in the United States, by 
Henky S. Eandall. 

Touatt and Martin on the Hog. • 75 

A Treatise on the Breeds, Management and Medical Treat- 
ment of Swine, with directions for Salting Pork and Curing Bacon and Hams. By 
"Wm. Youatt, E.S. and W. 0. L. Maktin. Edited by Ambrose Stevens. Illustrated 
with engravings drawn from life. 

Touatt on Sheep ; . 76 

Their Breed, Management and Diseases, with illustrative eii 

gravinss ; to which are added Eemarks on the Breeds and Management of Sheep in 
the United States, and on the Culture of Fine Wool in Silesia. By William Youatt. 

Lmerican Architect 6 00 

The American Architect, comprisin,^ Original Designs of cheap 
Country and Village Eesidences, with Details, Specifications, Plans, and Directions, 
and an estimate of the Cost of each Design. By John W. Eitoh, Architect. First 
and Second Series, quarto, bound in 1 vol., half roan. 

domestic Medicine 3 00 

Gunn's Domestic Medicine, or Poor Man's Friend, in the Hours of 

Affliction, Pain, aud Sickness, Eaymond's new revised edition, improved and enlarged. 
By John C. Gunn, 8vo. 

Pedder's (James) Farmer's Land Measurer; ... 50 

Or, Pocket Companion ; showing at one view, the Contents of any 
Piece of Land from Dimensions taken in Yards. With a set of Useful Agricultural 
Tables. 

[Jhemical Field Lectures for Agriculturists ; • 1 00 

Or, Chemistry without a Master. By Dr. Julius Adolphus 
Btockuardt, Professor in the Eoyal Academy of Agriculture at Tharant. TrMislated 
from the German. Edited, with notes, by James E. Techemachee. 

aer's (Albert D.) Agriculture 2 00 

The Principles op Agriculture, by Albert D. Thaer ; trans- 
lated by William Shaw and Cuthbert W. Johnson, Esq., F.E.S. With a Memoir 
of the Author. 1 vol. 8vo. 

This work is regarded by those who are competent to judge, as one of the most 
beautiful works that has ever appeared on the subject of agriculture. At the same 
time tliat it is eminently practical, it is philosophical, and, even to the general reader, 
remarkably entertaining. 

Von Thaer was educated for a physician; and, after reaching the summit of his pro- 
fession, he retired into the country, where his garden soon became the admiration of 
tlie citizens ; and when he began to lay out plantations and orchards, to cultivate herb- 
age and vegetables, the whole country was astonished at his science in the art of cul- 
tivation. Ho soon entered upon a large farm, and opened a school for the study of 
Agriculture, where his fame became known from one end of Europe to the other. 



Ph: 



6 Boohs Published by C. M. Saxton & Co. 

This great work of Von Tliaer s has passed through ten editions in the United States, 
but it is still comparatively unknoAvn. The attention of owners of landed estates in 
cities and towns, as well as those persons engaged in the practical pursuits of agricul- 
ture, is earnestly requested to this Yolumc. 

Guenon on Milch Cows ; ^0 60 

A Treatise on Milch Cows, whereby the Quality and Quantity ot 

Milk which any Cow will give may be accurately determined by observing Natural 
Marks or External Indications alone ; the length of time she will continue to give 
Mi!k, (tc, &c. By M. Fkancis GrsNON, of Libourne, France. Translated by Nicno 
LAS I*. Trist, Esq.; with Introduction, Eemarks and Observations on the Cow and the 
I airy, by John S. Skinner. Illustrated with numerous Engravings. Neatly done up 
in paper covers, 87 cts. 

American Poultry Yard ; 1 00 

Comprising the Origin, History, and Description of the different 

Breeds of Domestic Poultry, with complete directions for their Breeding, Crossing, 
Rearing, Fattening, and Preparation for Market; including specific directions for 
Capouizing Fowls, and for the Treatment of the Principal Diseases to which they are 
subjoct, drawn from authentic sources and personal observation. Illustrated with 
numerous engravings. By D. J. Browne. 

The Shepherd's Own Book : 2 00 

With an Account of the different Breeds and Management 

and Diseases of Sheep, and General Directions in regard to Summer and Witter Man- 
agement, Breeding, ar.d the Treatment of Diseases ; with illustrative engravings, by 
YouATT & Randall, embra,cing Skinner's Notes on the Breed and Management of' 
Sheep in the United States, and on the Culture of Fine Wool. 

Allen's (L. F.) Rural Architecture ; .... 1 25 

Being a complete Description of Farm Houses, Cottages, and 

Out Buildings, comprising Wood-houses, "Workshops, Tool-houses, Carriage and W?gon 
houses, Stables, Smoke and Ash houses, Ice houses. Apiaries or Bee-houses, Poultry- 
houses, Rabbitry, Dovecote, Piggery, Barns, and Sheds for Cattle, &c., &c. ; together 
with Lawns, Pleasure Grounds, and Parks; the Flower, Fruit, and Vegetable Garden; 
also. Useful and Ornamental Domestic Animals for the Country Resident, &c., &c. 
Also, the best method of conducting water into Cattle Yards and Uouses. Beautifully 
Illustrated. 

Allen's (E. L.) American Farm Book 1 00 

The American Farm Book; or, a Compcnd of American Agricul- 
ture, being a Practical Treatise on Soils, Manures, Draining, Irrigation, Grasses, Grain, 
Roots, Fruits, Cotton, Tobacco, Sugar Cane, Rice, and every Staple Product of the 
United States; with the best met.hods of p' an ting, cultivating, and preparation fo/ 
market. Illustrated by more than iOO engravings. By R. L Allen. 

Eeemelin's (Chas.) Vine-dresser's Manual .... 50 

An Illustrated Treatise on Vineyards and Wine-making, 

containing full instructions as to location and soil ; preparation of ground ; selection 
and propagation of vines; the treatment of a young Vineyard; trimming and training 
the vines ;" manures ; and the making of wine. 

Bement's (C. N.) Kabbit Fancier; 50 

A Treatise on the Breeding, Bearing, Feeding and General 
Management of Rabbits, with remarks upon their diseases and remedies, to which are 
added full directions for the construction of Hutches, Rabbitries, &c., together with 
recipes for cooking and dressing for the table. Beautifully illustrated. 

The Horse's Foot, and how to keep it Sound; • • 5C 

With Ci^ts Illustrating the Anatomy op the Foot, and con 
taining valuable hints on shoeing and stable management in health and in disease, 
By William Miles. 






,'<i 















^v^. 



. ,^"^'^^ °..WIW-^ .>^ % '^ 






\ ' 

. ^o 







■ • ->°^ V , V* .Tr>-/; , . „,%^* — >^'o .. . 






^^. 



■^' V 



.s^ % 






v^^\>^^. 






k^i^s^' « 



^^. . 



'':''^^^-, '■ 



^0' 



'O, * 



■) N t-^ 






xv^^'"-. ° 







^" 



<. 



*^ 



,0^ 






i^^ 



j^,.> 



''■ \o^: 



\ 









■^^^ . 







