





-^ 









,Hq 



r<. 



-?.'' o 

l.*^ 









o V 












.^^' 



.-^ 



< , , S • » ■<L J, " » * . \ 



.V 









A 



4 o 



^^ 



' * °' C\ 




^ • ^ '^^ V --.^ 



V-^^ 



V-^' 



^^°-i^i',°- /.c;^^^.'^ /.'^.>.''°. 








,0 



















THE NEW 



2k0|!iit|it C00k-'§00k; 



RECIPES FOR COOKING ON HYGIENIC PRINCIPLES: 



CONTAINING Al;50 A 



Philosophical Exposition of the Relations of Food to Hkalth ; the Chemical 

Elements and Pkuximate Constitution of Alimentakt Principles ; the Nit- 

TBiTivE Properties of all kinds of Aliments ; the relative value of 

VSGETABLE AND AnIMAL SUBSTANCES ; THE SELECTION AND PRESERVA- 
TION OF Dietetic Materials, etc, etc. 



/ 

By R. T. TRALL, M.D. 



Wtitff "Numetous fillustvattbe ISnflrabfnss 



NEW YORK: 

FOWLERS AND WELLS, PUBLISHERS, 

NO. 308 BROADWAY, 

IjOndon: 142 Strand. 

No. 142 Washington St. [ 1857. ] No. 23lXch Stteet, 



"51 



^61926 

SNTERED, ACCORBINO TO ACT OF CONQBESS, IN THE YKAB 19S3, BT 

FOWLERS AND "WELLS, 

IB THI! CLHBE'S OFFICB! OF THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE (JNITSD 8TAT«» 
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OT W-ITW TORS'. 



VrSW YORK STBREOTTPE ASS JCIATIOH, 

201 WilUam Street 



\ V i H V A' ♦ 



The leading objects of this work are^ to pre- 
sent, in tlie smallest possible compass, a summary 
of tlie principles and facts, in chemistry and phys- 
iology, which apply to the philosophy of diet; 
and to furnish such as are not familiar with the 
details of cooking on hygienic principles, plain 
formulas for j)reparing an ample variety of dishes, 
with due regard to the laws of life and health. 

Food is one of the elements of the materia 
medica in our hydropathic system, and in import- 
ance is second to no other — not even water. A 
vast number of chronic diseases are wholly in- 
curable, however judiciously all the other appli- 
ances of Water-Cure are managed, without proper 



iv Pkefaoe. 

attention to tlie dietetic part of the general re- 
medial plan. And herein Water-Cure establish- 
ments and hydropathic physicians are more at 
fault than in any other respect. 

I trust the time is not far distant, when not 
only hydropathic practitioners, but the people 
generally, will make the subject of diet one of 
their principal studies. It ought to be taught in 
all our seminaries of learning, for there is more 
of health and happiness, or of disease and mis- 
ery, connected with our methods of cooking and 
eating, than is dreamed of in the philosophy of 
most persons. 

Whether humanity must become good in order 
to be happy, or must first become happy in order 
to be good, is a very pretty metaphysical prob- 
lem for discussion; but, pending its solution, I 
will undertake to say, that human beings will 
never be, in an exalted sense, either good or 
happy, until they shall have obtained that har- 
monious and healthful play of all the bodily and 
mental functions which constitute "peace with- 
in ;" and that such a consummation can never be 
realized until a thorough and radical reform is 



Pkeface. V 

effected in tlie eating habits of tlie civilized 
world. 

In the arrangement of the work, I have aimed 
to make it, as far as practicable, also a health- 
reform educational book. It seems to me there 
is something peculiarly humanizing, elevating, 
and refining in the contemplation of fruits and 
flowers, and the cultivation of grains and roots, 
for the purposes of a pure and healthful suste- 
nance, drawn directly from the bosom of mother 
earth. It appears to me, too, that the pictures 
of animals displayed in the common cook-books, 
covered over with lines and figures denoting the 
different parts of the carcass from which to 
choose the more or less precious morsels, have a 
brutalizing, sensualizing, and degrading effect on 
the human being, especially on the impressible 
mind of childhood. 

To counteract, therefore, to some extent, the 
demoralizing tendency of ordinary cook-book lit- 
erature, and to aid in a better development of 
the youthful mind, I have endeavored to render 
this work attractive as well as instructive to 
young persons, by embellishing it with engrav- 



vi Preface. 

ings wliicli lead the mind away from scenes or 
til oughts of blood and slaughter, to subjects of 
botany, natural history, agriculture, horticulture, 
etc. I trust the time is not far distant when the 
foundation for a better development of the hu- 
man race will be established, in "teaching the 
young idea how to e«^," so as to secure uniform 
health, and realize the first and essential condi- 
tion of universal happiness — "sound minds in 
healthy bodies."' 



R. T. T. 



Hydropathic and Hygienic Institute, 
15 Laight Street, New York. 



ntrflkcii0n. 



CooKEKT books are plenty enough in our markets ; 
and although their literary excellences may be nn- 
questionable, I can not regard most of them as any 
thing better than promiscuous medleys of dietetic 
abominations. 

In g, majority of the works extant on the subject of 
preparing food for the table, the strong point of author- 
ship seems to have been,- to mix and mingle the great- 
est possible amount of seasonings, saltings, spicings, 
and greasings into a single dish ; and jumble the 
greatest possible variety of heterogeneous substances 
into the stomach at a single meal. No wonder the 
patrons and admirers of such cook-books are full of 
dyspepsia, and constipation, and hemorrhoids, and 
biliousness of every degree, and nervousness of every 
kind! 

" Cookery is an art," says Mrs. Sarah Josepha Hale 
{IS'ew Book of Coohery^ etc.), " belonging to woman's 
department of knowledge ; its importance can hardly 
be over-estimated, because it acts directly on human 
health, comfort, and improvement." 

It is precisely hecause the art of cookery is so inti- 
mately connected with the whole development and im- 



viii Inteoduction, 



provement, bodily and mentally, of the human being, 
that I so strongly object to almost all that is tanght 
and recommended in Mrs. Hale's book. The following 
recipe, copied from page 159, will illustrate my mean- 
ing better than a long argument : 

" Pork Cheese. — Choose the head of a small pig which may weigh 
about twelve pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it, and the tongues 
of four pigs, a Mttle common salt and a very little saltpetre. Let them 
lie four days ; wash them, and tie them in a clean cloth ; boil them 
until the bones will come easily out of the head ; take off the skin aa 
whole as possible ; place a bowl in hot water and put in the head, cut- 
ting it into small pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped like a 
small cheese, lay two strips of cloth across each other ; they must be 
long enough to fold over the top when the shape is full ; place the skin 
round the tin, and nearly half fill it with the meat, which has been 
highly seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and salt ; put in some tongue 
cut into slices, then the rest of the meat, and the remainder of the 
tongue ; draw the cloth tightly across the top ; put it on a board or a 
plate that will fit into the shape, and place on it a heavy weight, which 
must not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is eaten with vinegar and 
mustard, and served for luncheon or supper." 

Whether such cookery is calculated to improve or 
misimprove the human race need not be argued here. 
If the trade of butchering animals for food has a tend- 
ency to imbrute the minds of those engaged in it, cer- 
tainly the dressing up of a pig's head for the table, so 
as to resemble as nearly as possible the shape, form, 
features, and expression of a live pig, is equally vitia- 
ting to all true delicacy and refinement. Such cooking 
is bad enough when the only pretense about it is to 
gratify an exceedingly depraved appetite ; but when 
it is commended in a book claiming for itself pectTliar 
merit for "setting forth the true relations of food to 
healtJi^'' it becomes, like vice, 

" A monster of such hideous mien, 
That to be hated needs but to be seen." 



Introduction. ix 

Another popular cook-book is that of Miss Beecher. 
{Domestic Receipt BooJc.) In her preface she sajs : 
" No book of this kind will sell without receipts for the 
rich articles which custom requires ; and in furnishing 
them, the writer has aimed to follow the example of 
Pravidence, which scatters profusely both good and 
ill, and combines therewith the caution alike of expe- 
rience, revelation, and conscience, ' Choose ye that 
which is good, that ye and your seed may live.' " 

On looking through Miss Beecher's book, it seems 
to me the evil is much more profusely scattered than 
the good ; that the wine and brandy she commends in 
her cakes, and pies, and pudding sauces are better 
calculated to make men drunkards, than to render them 
wise in choosing. And I apprehend the world would 
soon come to a pretty pass, if we should all go to scat- 
tering good and evil about us after what Miss Beecher 
considers to be the example of Providence ! 

Cook book-makers, like cigar-makers and liquor- 
compounders, may manufacture an article to suit the 
demands of traffic. They may pander to vitiated ap- 
petite, and help the business of doctors, and nostrum- 
venders, and undertakers ; but I think an educated and 
literary woman ought to be better employed than in 
compiling voluminous works, wherein almost every vile 
and filthy thing under the sun is paraded temptingly 
and recommended authoritatively to appetites already 
deeply sensualized, if not incorrigibly depraved. 

When the women of our country can be made to un- 
derstand clearly and correctly the relations of food to 
health, they will repudiate all such " Complete House- 
keepers" and " Domestic Guides" as the books I have 
alluded to. And when our mothers are fully aware of 
the intimate connection between the health and proj^er 

1^- 



Introduction. 



development of their offspring, and their own dietetic 
habits, they will study rather to avoid all seasonings, 
than to mingle many ; they will seek purity of mate- 
rial and simplicity of preparation, instead of compoimd- 
ing their dishes after the most ridiculous fashions, and 
the most unnatural tastes. ^ 

Ten years' experience in the management of hydro- 
pathic establishments has convinced me that the die- 
tetic part of our curative plan is far the most difficult 
to carry out properly. Among the obstacles we have 
to contend with are the false habits, perverted tastes, 
and blind prejudices of the j)atient ; the commerical 
frauds and adulterations practiced more or less witli 
almost every thing used as food ; and the imperfect 
state of agriculture, especially as relates to the culture 
of fruits and garden vegetables. 

However strange may seem the assertion, it is never- 
theless true, that the philosophy of diet has ii&mr heen 
taught in medical schools ! Physicians generally are 
as profoundly ignorant of the whole subject as are the 
great masses of the people. And even many profess 
edly hydropathic doctors give the matter very little 
attention. Many a Water-Cure house, and not a 
few "establishments," have "gone down" because 
there was no competent person found to manage the 
table. 

Bread and fruit, it is, or ought to be, generally known, 
are, or should be, staple and principal articles of food 
on all tables for Water-Cure invalids. Yet I have seen 
on such tables an article of bread more calculated to 
create dyspepsia than to cure it ; and samples of fruit 
better calculated to excite colic than to relieve consti- 
pated bowels. And it is unfortunate for the cause of 
dietetic reform, that many persons get their impres- 



Intkoduction. xi 

sions of hydropathic diet from witnessing or experi- 
encing its abuse instead of its use. 

In the general out-door practice of hydropathic 
physicians the matter is still worse. We are often 
called in private families to prescribe a course of home- 
treatment for some chronic disease. And frequently 
it happens that bad eating habits are the principal 
cause of suffering, to remove which the patient seeks 
our advice. "We can tell him what he should eat ; but 
where will he find it 1 We can explain to him what 
materials to get, but where will he get them ? We can 
instruct him in the tests of their proper quality and 
purity, but how will he be able to distinguish by seeing 
and feeling them ? We can talk to him all about the 
manner of preparing such food as we recommend, 
and leave him with the consoling reflection that he 
will very likely spoil the thing in cooking it, and then 
lay all the blame to our system or our misapplication 
of it! 

All these difficulties exist; and they exist only 
because the people have never yet given sufficient at- 
tention to *' the relations of food to health." 

Under the auspices of the vegetarian reform move- 
ment many improvements have taken place in the 
manner of preparing a great variety of dishes for the 
table. But vegetarian diet is not necessarily physio- 
logical. The best diet contemplates the physiological 
preparation and use of vegetable food. But most of 
the vegetarian cook-books thus far are improvements 
on the ordinary plan of a mixed diet, mainly in exclu 
ding " flesh, fish, and fowl," and substituting butter 
for lard. This is, however, an improvement of no 
small importance ; but it recognizes no physiological 
principle save the preference of vegetable food for 



Inteoduction. 



flesh meat. The vegetarians, however, are beginning 
to study the philosophy of diet more thoroughly, and 
will, no doubt, very soon modify their cook-books ac- 
cordingly. 

I must in this j)lace caution those who undertake to 
cook after the rules and receipts of this book, against 
being discouraged if they do not always succeed in 
their first attempts. I know excellent bread-makers 
who spoiled many a loaf of Graham bread before they 
could get the " knack" of producing exactly the right 
article. Notwithstanding the nicest formularies that 
can be given, something must always be left to " tact 
and judgment." All, however, who sincerely desire 
to become good cooks in accordance with the princi- 
ples inculcated in this work, will in due time become 
proficient by practice and experience. 

A cockroach crawled o'er a baker's slielf, 
Waving his horns and looking for pelf; 
The baker, upon his broad board below, 
Was kneading and rolling about the dough. 

The board received such terrible thumps 
As the baker's rolling-pin struck the lumps, 
The shelf was shaken, the cockroach fell — 
Ah, where ? the baker he could not tell .' 

Into the oven, deep in the dough, 
Stern Fate would have the cockroach go — 
Dead and buried, his fate unknown, 
Perished the cockroach all alone. 

* # # * 

A napkin lay where a feast was spread, 
In its midst a bit of dainty bread ; 
A lovely lady, v.-ith hands most fair, 
Unravell'd the najjkin lying there. 



Introduction. xiii 

Soups, fish, ana birds, of many a kind, 
A pig, with skewers its joints to bind — 
A hare, with parsley stuck on its nose — 
And snipes and pheasants all laid in rows. 

Huge limbs of pork, beef, mutton, and veal 
Were sliced by the flourish of sharp-edg'd steel ; 
The well-charged plates were borne around 
By valets, in coats with gilt lace bound. 

Many a beggar might live on the steams 
That danced in the hall on the wax-light beams , 
But he must have a most delicate smell, 
Who by its strange odor the dish could tell. 
***** 
A terrible shriek stirs the steam and air 
That circle around the lady fair : 
The guests all about the table rise, 
Gaze toward her with dread surprise. 

"Pray, sit, my good lords," at length, quoth she, 
" And, kindly, I pray, don't question me !" 
And glad were they when the fright was o'er, 
To turn to the sumptuous feast once more. 

In vain did the lady strive to eat 

Delicate morsels of richest meat ; 

A dreadful sight met her constant view — 

She had bitten the hateful cockroach through ! 

Then to her in the steam from a bright tureen 
Was the ghost of the luckless cockroach seen ; 
While confusion in her ears did ring. 
The sprite of the cockroach seemed to sing : 

" Lady ! why gave you that terrible shriek ? 
Why rolled your eye, and paled your cheek .' 
Why dread to bite a poor worm like me, 
But eat sheep and swine most greedily ? 

" Oh, delicate lady, oh, sensitive fair, 
See the table strewn with carcasses there — 
Mangled and torn, all flesh from bone — 
Oh, leave such horrible feasts alone ! 



xiv Inteoduction. 



" The waving corn and fruitful tree, 
Bear gracious nourishment for thee ; 
Live, fair one, as a lady should, 
And being beautiful — be good ! 

" Though lions, tigers, vultures prey, 
Be thou more merciful than they ; 
Thy health will last, thy life be long !" 
And thus the cockroach ceased his song. 



Ndte. — To those who desire to investigate thoroughly the subject of diet, and espe- 
cially to those who wish to be well posted in the multitudinous facts and statistics 
which can be adduced in favor of an exclusively vegetable diet, as derived from history 
and science, I would earnestly recommend the addition to their libraries of Smith's 
"Fruits and Farinaeea, the Proper Food of Man;" "Alcotfs Vegetable Diet;" and 
Lax's " Organic Laws." 

Without involving the reader in difficult physiological problems, they collectively 
present an array of evidence and principles which, if not conclusive, are at least inter- 
esting and instructive. 

The former is an English work, now being republished by Messrs. Fowlers and 
■Wills. The otter works are published by the same house. 



Cntitent0. 



fintrotiuction. 

Books on Cookery — ^Medleys of Dietetic Abominations — Sources of Disease — Eelationa 
of Food to Health— Commercial Frauds and Adulterations — Philosophy of Diet never 
taught in Medical Schools — Water-Cure Establishments — Practice of Hydropathic 
Physicians — Difficulties — Vegetarian Eeform — Caution to Bread Makers— An In- 
etructive Poem Page vii-xiv 



PHILOSOPHY OF DIET— A Funilamental Principle— Theory of Vegetarianism- 
Summary of the Vecetarian System — Organization with regard to Diet — Population 
with regard to Diet — Nutritive Value of Foods — Illustrative Analysis — All Nutrition 
is formed in the Vegetable Kingdom 15-22 

ffiijapter 2Ctoo. 

ELEMENTS OF FOOD.— Alimentary Principles— Errors in Classification— Chemical 
Elements of Food — Carbon — Hydrogen — Oxygen— Nitrogen — Phosphorus — Sulphur 
— Iron — Chlorine— Sodium — Calciuni^Magn^sium — Potassium — Fluorine — Prox- 
imate Elements of Food — Water— Filtratiim — Filtering through Stone — Ascending 
Filter — Cistern Filtering — Double Cistern Filtering — Cleansing Filtering Apparatus 
— Cask Filter — Revolving Cask Filter— Box Filtering Apparatus— Jar Filter — Yarn 
Filter — Stone-ware Filter —Cooling Water— Gum— Sugar — The Sugar-cane Plant — 
Sirups — Manna — Honey — Starch — Corn Starch — Cassava Bread — Starch Grains illus- 
trated — Sago — Tapioca — Arrow-Koot — Wheat Starch — Lignin — Fungin — Jelly — Or- 
ganic Acids — Vinegar— Fat— Oleaginous Foods — Volatile Oils — Fibrin — Albumen — 
Casein — Gluten — Gelatin — Blanc-mange — Glue — Saline Matters — Common Salt — ■ 
Pereira Controverted 23-47 

Ci;!)aptet STJree. 

ALIMENTS, OR FOOD PEOPER.— Classification of Aliments— Wheat— Frauds in 
Flour — Rice — Wild Rice— Oats — Oatmeal — Groats — Barley — Pot Barley — Rye — 
Schwartzbrot — Ergot — Indian Corn, or Maize — Hominy — Samp — Green Corn— Buck- 
wheat— Millet, or Hirse — Peas— Beans — Lentils — Pea-meal — Parched Peas — Split 
Peas— Green Peas— Lima Beans— Nuts— Chestnut — Butternut — Almonds — Bitter AV 



xvi Contents. 

monds — Walnut — Hazel-nut — Fill)ert — Cocoa-nut — Peanuts — Brazil-nuts — Madeira- 
nuts — Pistachio-nuts— Acorns — Classification of Fleshy Fruits — Peaches — Nectarines 
— Plums — Prunes — Apricots — Cherries — Olives — Dates — The Apple — Early Straw 
berry — Fall Pippin — Pears — Quinces — The Aku, or Aker — The Medlar — Currants — 
Gooseberries — Whortleberries — The Blueberry — The Barberry — The Buffalo Berry— 
The Cranberry — Elderberries — Juniper Berries — Scheidam Schnapps — The Grape 
— Catawbas and Isabellas — Raisins — The Black Currant— The Orange — The Lemon 
— The Citron — The Shaddock — The Lime — The Pomegranate — The Tomato, or Love 
Apple — The Okra, or Gambo — Pepones — Melons — Pumpkins — Squashes — Figs- 
Mulberries — The Pineapple — Strawberries — Raspberries — Blackberries — The Dew • 
berry — Bread Fruit — Durion — Guava — Mamma — Litchi — Jujube — Juvia — Papau — 
Avocado Pea" — Anchovy Pear— Manjo — Banana— Plantain — Mangostan — Turnips 
— Carrots — Pa.'sneps — Beets — Potatoes — Artichokes — Yams — The Radish — TheSkir- 
ret — Onions — Leeks — Garlic ■ — Chives — Shallots — Asparagus — Cabbages — Savoy — 
Cauliflower — Broccoli — Sourkrout — Spinach — Chenopodlum— Sorrel — Rhubarb — Sea- 
soning Herbs — Ferns — Lichens — Seaweeds — Mushrooms — Animal Foods — Qualitiec 
of Animal Foods— Roman Custom of Killing Animals — Jewish Custom — Composition 
of Flesh — Methods of Cooking Flesh — Fish Aliment — Insects — Eggs — Milk — Buttei 
— Cream — Cheese — Concentrated or Essence of Milk Pago 4S-108 

©tapter iFout. 

PRESERVATION OP FOODS.— Preservation of Grain, Meal, Seeds, etc.— Presena- 
tion of Vegetables— ^Vegetable Drying Apparatus — Preservation of Fruits — Plau of 
Mr. Smith — The North American Phalanx Company — Principal Condition for Pre- 
serving Perishable Fruits — Undried Grapes — Green Gooseberries and Currants — 
Scalding Fruit — Peach and Tomato Leather — Preserving Peaches in Tin Cans — 
Pumpkins and Squashes — Cultivation of Currants and Gooseberries — Preservation 
with Ice — Plan of an Ice House 109-117 

€;f)npter Jpibe. 

THEORY OP NUTRITION— Prevalent Errors— Stimulating Diet— Tonic Diet— Low 
Diet — High Living— Rich Food — Definition of Nutrition— The Abdominal Viscera 
— Dr. Beaumont's Experiments — Summary of the Digestive Processes — Insalivation 
—Mastication — Deglutition — Chymilication — Properties of Bile — Fatty Matters in the 
Stomach — The Pancreatic Juice — Chylification — Structure of the Alimentary Canal — 
The Lacteal Vessels — Defecation — Fecal Accumulations — Practical Reflections — Con- 
diments — Catalogue of the Crystal Palaoe — Fat Persons and Animals — ^Modus Oper- 
andi of the Fattening Process 118-147 

BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING.— Different Kinds of Bread— Theory of Fermenta- 
tion — General Rules for Bread-making — Unleavened Breads — Fermented Breads — 
Raised Breads — Digestibility of Breads — Quality of Flour and Meal — Bread-making 
— Setting the Sponge — The Three Essentials — Ferment, Leaven, or Yeast — Original 
Ferment — Hop-yeast — Potato-yeast — Milk Risings — Yeast Cakes — Yeast-rulis — Fer- 
ment without Yeast — Flour-yeast — Yeast of Dried Peas — Unleavened Bread — Raised 
Bread — Wheat-meal Bread — Graham Bread — Potato Bread — Rye and Indian Bread 
— Apple Bread — Pumpkin Bread — Rice Bread— Moist Rice Bread — Sweet Brown 
Sread— Currant Bread— Scalded Bread 14S-164 



Contents. xvii 



€;|)a})ter Scben. 

CAKES AND BISCUITS.— Wheat-meal Crackers— Unletvened Bread Cakes— 
Wheat-meal Wafers — Indian-meal Cake — Johnny Cake — Raised Indian Cake — Rich 
Corn Cake — Corn Cream Cake — Molassts Cake — Wheat-meal Sweet Cake — Indian 
Slappers — Wheat-meal Griddle Cake — Buckwheat Griddle Cakes — Rice Griddle 
Cakes — Wheat and Indian Griddle Cakes — Oatmeal Cake — Potato Cake — Flour and 
Potato Rolls — Indian Pancakes — Slapjacks — Sour Milk Biscuit — Shortened Biscuit — 
Rye Drop Cake — Wheat-meal Drop Cake — Corn-meal Muffins — Hydropathic Crum- 
pets — Cocoa-nut Drops — Milk Biscuit — Water-Cure Waffles — Uncooked Bread Cake 
— Unbaked Bread Cake — Uncooked Fruit Cake— Frost Cakes — Improved Jumballa 
— Fruit Cake— Wedding Cake — Potato Scones — Dry Toast — Milk Toast — Cream 
Toast— Wheat-meal Fruit Biscuits Page 165-172 

©Ijapter Eifllit. 

MUSHES AND PORRIDGES.— Cracked Wheat Mush— Hominy— Samp— Rye-meal 
Mush — Indian-meal Mush — Oatmeal Mush — Wheat-meal Mush — Farina Mush — Rice 
Mush — Rice and Milk Mush — Corn Starch Blanc-mange — Molded Farinacea — Milk 
Porridge — Wheat-meal Porridge — Oatmeal Porridge — Hominy Porridge — Sago Por- 
ridge — Rice and Sago Porridge — Bean Porridge 173-176 

®I)apter Nine. 

PIES AND PUDDINGS.— Pie Crust— Wheat-meal Pie Crust— Wheat and Potato 
Crust — Meal and Flour Crust — Raised Pie Crust — Wheat and Rye Crust — Bread Pie 
Crust — Pumpkin Pie with Eggs — Pumpkin Pie with Cream— Grated Pumpkin Pie 
— Squa-sh Pie — Green Apple Pie — Dried Apple Pie— Carrot Pic — Potato Pie — Peach 
Pie— Dried Peach Pie — Rhubarb Pie — Custard Pie — Cranberry Tart — Whortleberry 
Pie — Blackberry Pie — Raspberry Pie — Strawberry Pie — Strawberry Tart — Green Cur- 
rant Pie — Gooseberry Pie — Dried Fruit Pies — Rice Puddings— Sago and Apple 
Pudding — Pearl Barley Pudding — Barley and Apple Pudding — Bread Pudding — 
Cracked Wheat Pudding — Hominy Pudding — Indian-meal Pudding— Tapioca Pud- 
ding — Snow Pudding — Christmas Pudding — Macaroni Snow Pudding — Rice and 
Apple Pudding— Sweet Apple Pudding— Snow-ball Pudding— Apple Custard- 
Cottage Pudding — Farina Pudding— Fig and Cocoa-nut PuddiYig — Baked Apple 
Pudding — Berry Pudding — Custard Pudding— Green Corr Pudding 177-185 

©tapter Ken. 

WHOLE GRAINS AND SEEDS.— Boiled Wheat- Boiled Rice- Parched Corn— Boil- 
ed Chestnuts — Roasted Peanuts — Boiled Green Peas — Boiled Green Beans — Boiled 
Beans and Peas— Boiled Green Corn— Roasted Green Corn — Succotash 186-18S 

ffijapter Elcben. 

GRUELS AND SOUPS.— Wheat-meal Gruel- Indian-meal Gruel— Oatmeal Gruel- 
Farina Gruel— Tapioca Gruel— Sago Gruel— Currant Gruel— Groat Gruel— Arrow- 
root Gruel— Rice Gruel — Tomato Soup — Rice Soup — Split Peas Soup — Green Peas 
Soup— Split Peas ami Barley Soup— Biirley Soup— Green Bean Soup— Vegetable 
Broth — Barley Broth- Spinach Soup— Vegetable and Rice Soup — Cucumber and 
Gumbo Soup 1S9-193 



xviii Contexts, 



EOOTS AND VEGETABLES.— Boiled Potatoes— Boiled Peeled Potatoes— Browned 
Potatoes— Potato for Shorteninsc- Mashed Potato— Browned Mashed Potato— Potato 
j-lour — Potato Jelly — Boasted Potatoes— Sweet Potatoes— Baked Potatoes — Boiled 
Turnips — ^Mashed Tuniips — Boiled Parsneps — Stewed Parsneps — Browned Parsneps 

Onions — Carrots — Jerusalem Artichokes — Boiled Beet-root — Baked Beets — Stewed 

Beets — Asparagus — Boiled Cabbage — Boiled Savoys — Stewed Cabbage — Cauliflowers 
—Broccoli — Stewed Cucumbers — Greens— String Beans — Egg Plant — Vegetable 
Marrow— Salsify— Oyster Plant 194-200 

€;i)aptcr Eijivtten. 

PREPARED FEUITS.— Baked Apples— Stewed Green Apples — Boiled Apples- 
Stewed Pippins — Stewed Dried Apples — Pears — Boiled Peaches — Stewed Green 
Peaches — Stewed Dried Peaches — Uncooked Peaches — Apricots — Cherries — Quinces 
— Quince Marmalade — Stewed Cranberries — Blackberries — Whortleberries — Rasp- 
berries — Strawberries — Gooseberries — Currants — Plums — Grapes — Pineapples — 
Tomatoes 201-205 

(Hfi^ftzv iFourteen. 

PREPARATIONS OF ANIMAL FOOD.— Beef Steak— Mutton Chops— Stewed Mut- 
ton — Boiled Mutton — Roast Beef— Corned Beef— Beef Hash — ^Venison— "White Fish 
—Poultry— Eggs 206-208 

©Japter iFiftccn. 

RELISHES AND FANCY DISHES.— Custard without Eggs— Rice Custard— Rasp- 
berry Custard — Apple Cream — Snow Cream — Pineapple Ice Cream — Strawberry 
Cream — Raspberry Ice Cream— Curd Cheese — Pot Cheese — Cherry Jam — Apple 
Cheese— Grape Sirup— Baked Milk 209-212 

ffijapter Sixteen 

KITCHEN MISCELLANY.— New Kind of Oven— Steam Cooking— Steaming rs. 
Baking Bread — Cucumbers in Tubs — Potato Cheese — Roasting Apples, Potatoes, 
Eggs, etc. — Burns and Scalds — Cockroaches — Rats and Mice — Cracked Iron — Iron 
Cooking Utensils — Copper Vessels — Leailen Vessels — Tin Cooking Utensils — Zinc 
Vessels — Brass Cooking Utensils — German Silver — Pewter Dishes — Britannia Metal 
— Fruit Stains — Iron Mold and Ink Spots— PaperedWalls — Painted "Wood — Starch and 
Paste — Trays, Knives and Forks — Frozen Potatoes — Dresses on Fire — "Water-proof 
Cement— Fire-proof Cement— Ready Rat Trap— Chei^ "Water-proof Paste . . 213-219 



THE 



3|itr0pt|k C00k-§00k* 



CHAPTER I. 

PHILOSOPHY OF DIET. 

A Fundamental Principle. — The single fact, that all nutri- 
tive material is formed by vegetables — animals having power 
to appropriate, but never to form nutrition — is proof positive 
to my mind, that the best food, and that which is most con- 
ducive to man's highest development, bodily, spiritually, 
physiologically, or mentally, is found in the use of those 
vegetables themselves. Those who eat animal food do not 
get a single element of nutrition, save what animals obtain from 
vegetables. Hence man, in taking his nutrition indirectly by 
the eating of animals, must of necessity get the original nutri- 
ment more or less deteriorated from the unhealthy conditions 
and accidents of the animals he feeds upon, and the impurities, 
putrescent matters, and excretions always mingled in the 
blood, the flesh, and the viscera of animal substances. 

I regard, therefore, vegetarianism as the true theory of diet ; 
and although I am a vegetarian in practice as well as in 
theory, I do nevertheless admit or permit, in the cases of many 
invalids under hydropathic treatment, the moderate use of 
animal food. This may be said to be in one sense a compro- 



20 Hydeopathio Cook-Book. 

Dietetic Principles and Propositions. 

mise with error. But the justification is found in the fact 
that all are not yet sufficiently educated to carry out an ex- 
clusively vegetable regimen. 

Summary of the Vegetarian System. — An English peri- 
odical (Vegetarian Messenger) has happily compressed the 
leading propositions bearing on the subject in the following 
manner : 

The Principle. — That man, as a physical, intellectual, and 
moral being, can become most completely developed in all 
his faculties by subsisting upon the direct productions of the 
vegetable kingdom. 

The Reasons for entertaining this principle are various with 
different persons, but they are principally based — 

I. On the Anatomical Structure of Man^ as described by 
Linnseus, Cuvier, and other eminent naturalists, who express 
their conviction that man was designed to live on the fruits of 
the earth. 

II. On History, which shows that this principle was a rule 
of life at the happiest — the primeval — period of human exist- 
ence ; and that wherever it has been adopted, it has proved 
itself to be beneficial to the human race. 

III. On Physiology, which shows that the purest blood, and 
the most substantial muscle, sinew, and bone are produced by 
vegetarian diet. 

IV. On Chemistry, as promulgated by Liebig and other 
eminent chemists, showing that all nutriment whatever is de- 
rived from the vegetable kingdom, where it is found in the 
most suitable proportions. 

V. On Domestic. Economy, which proves by chemical deduc- 
tion that more nutriment can be obtained for one penny from 
farinaceous food, than for one shilling from the flesh of animals. 

VI. On Agriculture, which shows the vast amount of food 
obtained in vegetable produce, compared with that of animal 
produce, on the same extent of laud. 



Philosophy of Diet. 21 

Dietetic Character deduced from Organization. 

VII. On Psychology, proving to every practical investi- 
gator, that in proportion as this principle is adhered to for 
this end, the passions can be kept in subjection to the moral 
principles of the mind. 

VIII. On the Practical Testimony of many great and good 
men in ancient, modern, and present times. 

IX. On the Appointment of man's food at the Creation. — 
Genesis i. 29. 

X. On the Individual Consciousness of the truth of the 
principle which becomes more and more powerful, in propor 
tion as the principle is adhered to in practice. 

Organization with regard to Diet. — We concede of 
course that human beings can, to a great extent, and that all 
animals can to some extent, subsist on flesh-meat. But the 
practical question is, which is the best ? All carnivorous ani- 
mals, we know, have a very low and generally a ferocious or- 
ganization. Omnivorous animals are less fierce, perhaps, in 
temper, but hardly less gross in tastes. Herbivorous animals 
exhibit not only more firmness of fiber and power of endur- 
ance — all working animals in all parts of the world being 
herbivorous — but also milder tempers, gentler natures, more 
amiable dispositions, more governable propensities, and even 
a higher grade of mental capacity. 

These facts have some meaning. To my mind they prove 
that a subsistence wholly on animal food is designed in the 
order of nature for the lowest, grossest, and most perishable 
portion of the animal kingdom — for the beasts of prey which 
answer a temporary purpose in the scale of creation, and then 
pass away ; that a mixed diet is adapted to a higher order of 
beings, be they human or brutal ; and that a diet strictly 
vegetable is intended to sustain those animals which are 
longest necessary or useful on the earth, while man, the 
crowning glory and noblest work of the Almighty Architect, 
is to subsist eventually, and in his millennial development, 



32 IlYDKOPATniC CooK-BooK. 

Population affected by Diet. — Nutritive Value of Food. 

on the highest and purest pi r;ductions of the vegetable king 
dom. 

Population with REGfARD to Diet. — Another argument, 
and to my mind also a conclusive one, in favor of vegetarian- 
ism, is the true theory of population. If ever the earth be- 
comes very densely inhabited with human beings, a great 
number of such animals as are raised for food can not possi- 
bly coexist. And as ten times the number of " rational 
creatures" can be sustained on the direct productions of the 
earth, that could subsist indirectly on the flesh of animals, the 
presumption is at least vei'y strong, that the races of domes- 
ticated animals will become extinct as the races of man pro- 
gress ; just as the weaker races of the human family decline 
before the advancing strides of the stronger. There is cer- 
tainly something as revolting in the idea of a " feast of blood" 
in the millennial period, as in that of a " slaughter-house in 
Eden," or a pigsty in Paradise. 

Nutritive Value of Food. — The prevalent opinion that 
flesh-meat is more nutritive than vegetable food, either as 
supplying matter for the tissues or respiratory material, is 
shown to be erroneous by chemical analysis. The best ana- 
lytical chemists. Play fair, Liebig, Boussingault, etc., give us 
the following statistical illustration of the subject : 

Contains — Supply to the body — 



Articles of Diet. Solid matter. Water. ,EI"od f„rm- Heat rurm. ^ 

ing principle, ing principle, "■■'""='"• 

lb. lb. lb. lb. lb. lb. 

100 Turnips 11 89 10 90 10 

100 lied Beet Root 110 89 15 85 10 

100 Carrota 18 87 2 10 10 

100 Potatoes 28 72 2 25 10 

lUO Butchers' meat 36 63 4 215 14 3 3 

100 Broad (stale) T6 240 10 7 643 25 

100 Peas 84 16 29 515 3 5 

100 LentUs 84 16 33 48 3 

100 Barley meal 84 5 15 5 14 68 5 2 

100 Wheat meal 85 5 14 5 210 02 10 

100 Beans 86 14 310 515 8 5 

100 Sago 88 12 3 4 84 6 

100 Maize meal 90 10 110 77 2 

loo Oatmeal 910 9 12 77 8 

100 Rice .....924 T6 84 82 20 



Philosophy OF Diet. 23 

Identity of Elements in Animal and Vegetable Protein. 



In view of the foregoing facts, a late English paper [Liver- 
pool Mercury) remarks : 

In addition to the above interesting facts developed by an examina- 
tion of the composition of the various articles of food in ordinary con- 
sumption, and proclaiming the respective degree in which each can be 
made useful in the building up of the body, is another argument pre- 
sented to the attention, by the advocates of the vegetarian practice of 
diet. It is found that all parts of the food which can form blood, and 
thus renew the animal structure of the body, are due to the protein 
compounds, which have their sole origin in the vegetable kingdom ; 
and thus the nutritive parts of vegetables and flesh being identical, 
that the popular opinion of the peculiar characteristics of the nutri- 
ment of the flesh of animals is altogether erroneous, the nutritive 
particles of flesh being due to the ultimate elements of nutrition de- 
rived from the vegetable food on which animals consumed have fed, as 
shown in the works of Baron Liebig, illustrating the fact in question 
" Vegetables produce in their organism the blood of all animals for the 
carnivora, in consuming the blood and flesh of the granivora, con- 
sume, strictly speaking, only the vegetable principles which have 
served for the nutrition of the latter." 

Note. — For a brief exposition of the various arguments in 
support of the propositions indicated here, I must refer to 
another work, "The Hydropathic Encyclopedia;" and for a 
complete demonstration of the whole subject to Graham's 
" Science of Human Life," and Smith's " Fruits and Farinacea 
the Proper Food of Man." Much useful information may 
also be gathered from a work written a few years ago by 
William Lambe, M.D., of England, entitled, " Water and 
Vegetable Regimen in Chronic Diseases." The Water-Cure 
Journal has recently adopted a dietetic department, for the 
especial discussion of all problems connected with diet, which 
periodical I would recommend to all who intend to keep along 
with the progress of the age. 



CHAPTER II. 

ELEMENTS OF FOOD. 

Alimentary Principles. — All alimentary substances are 
composed of certain constituent parts, which may be properly 
termed alimentary principles. These are formed by certain 
combinations of elementary constituents, which are denomi- 
nated chemical elements. Alimentary prin-ciples are often call- 
ed proximate elements or principles of food, and chemical ele- 
ments are frequently termed ultimate elements of food. Thus 
wheat., beef, potato, apple, etc., are aliments or foods proper ; 
and starch, sugar, gum, gluten, fibrin, albumen, casein, gelatin, 
etc. — their constituents — are proximate elements or princi- 
ples. The proximate constituents of food are alimentary prin- 
ciples, while oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, etc., into 
which these alimentary principles are resolvable by analysis, 
are chemical or ultimate elements. Chemical elements are 
regarded as simple substances only, because In our present 
state of chemical knowledge they have never been decom 
posed. Proximate elements of food are compounds of the 
simple or chemical elements, and aliments or foods proper are 
compounds of the proximate principles. 

Pareria divides alimentary substances into chemical ele- 
ments^ alimentary principles, and compound aliments. This 
arrangement is based on a false philosophy, and is very 
liable to mislead the superficial inquirer. The truth is, all 
alimentary substances are compounds of alimentary principles ; 
but this does not make them compound aliments. We might 
as well call the oxygen and hydrogen of water, aqueous prin- 
ciples, and the water it?,Q\i, compound drink! Aliment and 
food are synonymous terms, but each represents a simple 



Elements OF Food. 25 

Experimenta on Animals. — Chemical Elements. 

idea. A potato, an apple, or a grain of wheat, is a compound 
of various alimentary principles; but it is a simple, and in no 
sense a compound food. Compound wheat, compound potato, 
etc., would be as appropriate phrases as are compound food, 
and compound aliments. 

The error above alluded to, trivial as it may seem to the 
casual reader, has caused hundreds of foolish experiments to 
be tried on dogs, cats, ralft)its, hares, hogs, sheep, and even 
on the human animal, with a view of ascertaining the dietetic 
virtue of particular alimentary principles. These victims of 
science have been fed on sugar, gum, starch, butter, cheese, 
fat, fibrin, albumen, gelatin, etc., exclusively, and with the 
uniform result of sooner or later starving to death. No ani- 
mal can sustain prolonged nutrition on any single alimentary 
principle, though all of them may on a single aliment. 

Chemical Elements of Food. — Chemists reckon, as con- 
stituting the ultimate elements of food, thirteen simple sub- 
stances, viz. : carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phospho- 
rus, sulphur, iron, chlorine, sodium, calcium, potassium, mag- 
nesium, and fluorine ; and Pareria, assuming that " a living 
body has no power of forming elements, or of converting one 
elementary substance into another," deduces thence the infer- 
ence that '* the thirteen essential constituents of the human 
body must, therefore, be the elements of our food." 

This proposition requires explanation; for although it may 
be and probably is true that organized bodies have no power 
of transmuting one actual element into another, or of creating 
elements, yet it is perfectly demonstrable that the vital ener- 
gies of both animals and vegetables have power to decompose 
substances, usually regarded as elementary, and to transmute, 
and even form, to some extent, what are usually considered 
to be chemical elements. Thus iime is found in the bones of 
the chick, while no trace of it can be discovered in the fluid 
of the egg, from which the chick derives its sustenance ; and 

2 



26 HTDEOPATniC CCOK-EOOK. 

Carbon — Hydrogen — Oxygen — Nitrogen— Phosphonis — Sulphur. 

sugar, taken into the healthy stomach as food, is found again 
in the secretions, though it can not be discovered in the blood 
— the only channel through which its elements can reach the 
secretory organs. 

Carbon, hydrogen^ oxygen, and nitrogen are essential con- 
stituents of all living bodies, animal and vegetable. The first 
three are found in all alimentary substances, and the latter 
in the majority of all the animal and vegetable substances 
which are employed as food. Fat, starch, gum, and sugar are 
the chief alimentary principles which do not contain nitrogen. 

Liebig and some other modern chemists have advanced the 
theory that non-nitrogenized foods do not nourish the tissues ; 
but in affording carbon for oxydation and the consequent evo- 
lution of heat, are properly " elements of respiration." Thus 
they become useful in affording the " heat-forming principle," 
"while the nitrogenized foods, or those aliments which con- 
tain nitrogen, furnish the "flesh-forming principle." The the- 
ory, however, has no practical value in dietetics, for the rea- 
son that all the elements of nutrition, whether heat-forming, 
or flesh-forming, or bone-forming, are sufficiently distributed, 
and nearly equally so, throughout all those portions of both 
the vegetable and animal kingdom that man ever does or can 
employ as food. 

Phosphorus is an ingredient in the bones, brain, nervous 
structure, and in the albumen and fibrin of the tissues. It also 
exists in some form or proportion in nearly all vegetable sub- 
stances. 

Sulphur exists, though in much less proportions than phos- 
phorus, in most animal and vegetable substances. It is pos- 
sible, and I think quite probable, that both sulphur and phos- 
phorus are formed by mere chemical combinations of the 
decomposed elements of the worn-out tissues. The human 
body, in many severe and exhausting diseases, and in various 
conditions of low vitality, frequently exhibits phosphorescent 
and electrical sparks ; and game, when " very high," that is, 



Elements OF Food. 2T 

Iron— Chlorine — Sodium — Calcium — Magnesium. 

tainted and partially putrescent, often produces a sulphurous 
discoloration to the silver knife or fork employed in carving it. 

Iron is found in the ashes of many animal and vegetable 
substances, and is hence inferred to be a constituent of most, if 
not all, organized beings. But chemists are wholly unable to 
determine the state in which it exists ; and as the quantity is 
always exceedingly small and very variable, it becomes at 
least a matter of doubt whether it is really a constituent at all 
or not. It may be, when found, either an accidental impurity 
or the product of that process of analysis that detected it. 

Chlorine is found in the blood, gastric juice, and in various 
excretions. But how far it may be an indispensable constitu- 
ent, and to what extent an accidental ingredient, is not well 
understood. Still greater uncertainty prevails as to its exist- 
ence as a constituent in alimentary substances. I regard it 
as one of the supposed elements which are easily formed, de- 
composed, or transmuted by the organic economy. 

Sodium is found in the blood, in most of the tissues, and 
in the secretions generally. Common salt, however, which is 
a chloride of sodium, is not, as is usually supposed, an ordi- 
nary constituent of vegetables, with the exception of those 
■which grow near the salt water. It is, therefore, in all prob- 
ability one of the subtances which the vital power can both 
create and destroy. 

Calcium is a component part of the animal tissues. It 
exists largely in the bones in the form of a subj)hosphate of 
lime. It is found in the blood, and in all the solid structures. 
Nearly all vegetables contain the subphosphates of lime, to a 
greater or less extent. Liebig thinks that the appetite some 
children manifest for eating the plaster which covers the walls 
of the houses they live in, is owing to a deficiency of lime in 
the food which is given them. 1 am of opinion that it is 
owing entirely to a morbid appetite induced by bad feeding 
generally. 

Magnesium exists 'n small quantities in the blood, bony 



Htdeopathic Cock-Book. 



Potassium — Fluorine. — Proximate Elements of Food. 



structure, and various tissues of the body. It is also found 
in the cereal grains, potatoes, flesh-meat, eggs, milk, etc. 

Potassium is discovered in minute traces in the blood, the 
solids, and many of the secretions of the human body ; and it 
exists in nearly all inland vegetation. 

Fluorine in minute quantities has been detected in the bones 
and teeth, but has never yet been found in vegetables ; hence 
another presumptive evidence in favor of the ability of the vital 
powers to transmute supposed elements ; provided, however, 
that fluorine be really a normal constituent of the body. 

Proximate Elements of Food. — The most important 
proximate elements (alimentary principles) into which those 
subsiances used as food can be divided, are — water, gum, 
sugar, starch, jelly, fat or oil, fibrin, albumen, casein, and 
gelatin. Various acids and salts are also properly regarded 
as proximate or alimentary constituents of food, because they 
are always found, to a greater or less extent, in a great variety 
of alimentary substances. They are, however, among those 
elements which ai"e readily increased, diminished, modified, 
or transmuted by the organic processes. They vary, too, 
greatly in the different stages of growth, maturity, and de- 
cay, of vegetable substances ; and are very much modified or 
changed by the method of cultivation. In fact, some acids 
and saline matters which are found in the early stages of 
their growth are not to be found when they are thoroughly 
matured. 

All of these proximate constituents^ vary exceedingly in 
their ability to sustain the prolonged nutrition of man or ani- 
mals; but neither of them alone can supply perfect nutrition, 
nor sustain the organism for a great length of time. Their 
power to do so is in the ratio of their complexity. Thus 
gluten, which combines in itself a greater number of elements, 
or, in other words, is a more complex substance in its chem- 
ical composition than any other alimentary principle, is capa- 



Elements OF Food. 2& 

Pure and Impure Waters — Medicinal Waters — Filtration. 

ble of sustaining the nutrition of animals longer than any 
other. 

Water constitutes about three fourths of the entire bulk and 
weight of the human body. It forms a portion of all the tis- 
sues, and exists as a component part of every kind of vege- 
table. Only a very small quantity of water is necessary as a 
drink, provided our dietetic and other voluntary habits are 
physiologically correct. The vast quantity usually taken into 
the stomach is called for by the feverish and inflammatory 
state of the system produced by concentrated food, flesh, salt, 
spices, etc. But it is indispensable to perfect health that all 
the water drank, and all that is employed in cooking, should 
be pure. 

All persons, however, do not know what pure water really 
is. Many mistake transparency for purity ; and others think 
all water that is soft must necessarily be pure. Pure water 
is always soft ; but soft water is not always pure. 

Rain water is the purest known. Springs which are formed 
by rain water percolating through beds of sand or a gravelly 
soil, are often almost perfectly pure. River water is generally 
soft ; but contains more or less of vegetable and animal im- 
purities. Well toater is generally very hard, being impreg- 
nated with earthy salts, particularly sulphate of lime (plaster 
of Paris) and bicarbonate of lime. Marsh and lake water are 
usually very impure. Sea water contains an average of three 
imd a half per cent, of saline impurities. Mineral waters are 
taraous for medicinal virtues^ precisely in proportion to the 
extent of their iinpurities. Persons are often poisoned by the 
medicinal properties which water, beer, soda, porter, etc., have 
acquired by standing in metallic vessels or leaden pipes. 
Water conveyed through metal tubes should always be allowed 
to run some time before any is drank. 

Filtration will remove all the impurities suspended in com- 
mon water, but not those substances held in solution. A 
very cheap and efficient filter may be constructed in a few 



30 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Economical Filtering Apparatus — Filtering through Stone. 

minutes, at the cost of only a few peuce, in the following 
manner : 

Procure a clean flower-pot, of the common kind ; close the opening in 
the bottom by a piece of sponge ; then place in the inside a layer of 
email stones, previously well cleaned by washing ; this layer may be 
about two inches deep, the upper stones being very small. Next pro- 
cure some freshly burnt charcoal, which has not been kept in a damp 
or foul place, as it rapidly absorbs any strong smells, and so beco-mes 
tainted and unfit for such purpose ; reduce this to powder, and with it 
twice its bulk of clear, well- washed, sharp sand ; with this mixture fill 
the pot to within a short distance of the top, covering it with a layer 
of small stones ; or, what is perhaps better, place a piece of thick tlannel 
over it, large enough to tie round the rim of the pot outside, and to 
form a hollow inside, into which the water to be filtered is to be poured, 
and which will be found to flow out rapidly through the sponge in an 
excellent pure state. The flannel removes the grosser impurities float- 
ing in the water, but the latter absorbs much of the decaying animal 
and vegetable bodies actually dissolved in it; when it becomes charged 
with them, it loses this power, hence the necessity for a supply of 
fresh charcoal at intervals. 

Under different circumstances porous stone, sand, charcoal, 
sponge, flannel and other cloths, and unsized or bibulous 
paper, are used for filtering water. As the subject is one of 
great importance, especially to invalids, I shall dwell on it 
somewhat lengthily. 

On a small scale, water which has not become attainted by 
the admixture of offensive gases, may be filtered by com- 
pressing a piece of sponge into the neck of a bottle or other 
vessel, and allowing the water to percolate through it. 

Fig. 1. Filtering water by passing it through 

/_-- ^ — ^^^^^^^ ^T\ porous stone, hollowed out into the 

/ v^j ^ ^ ^ \ form of a basin (fig. 1), was an ancient 

~ method. Filtering through charcoal de- 

prives the water of coloring matter and 
offensive odors. Sand has been most 
generally used for filtering on a large 
raxEEiNQ THBouGH STONE, scalc. lu the saud beds constructed by 




Elements of Food, 



31 



Ascending Filter— Cistern and Double Cistern Filtering. 

Nature, the water is more perfectly filtered by an ascending 
motion. In descending, some of the impurities might be forced 
through the sand by their own gravity ; but in ascending, the 
force of gravitation opposes theii farther progress. Fig. 2 is a 



Fig. 2. 




ASCENDINU FILTEK. 



very simple contrivance il- 
lustrative of this principle. 
Travelers can easily avail 
themselves of this plan ; a, 
J, c represent a curved tube, 
round or square, filled with 
sand or charcoal, or both, up 
to the level, c. A small flan- 
nel bag is put in the end of 
the tube at a. The coarsest 
impurities are retained by the flannel, the finer by the sand ; 
and in passing upward to b, the purification is rendered com- 
plete. It should be noticed, that the more compact the sand 
and the stones the water passes, the more perfect will be the 
process of purification. 

Cisterns are often constructed in cellars, and divided by a 
partition, reaching nearly to the bot- 
tom, into two unequal parts (fig. 3) . 
The largest division, b, is half filled 
with layers of sand, of various de- 
grees of fineness, through which the 
water passes, and rises perfectly clear 
into the division, c. 

A similar cistern with two partitions 
has been recommended (fig. 4). The 
partition a does not reach quite tc 
the bottom, and the other, b. has an 
aperture. A piece of perforated 
metal, stone, wood, or a cloth, is 
fixed in the middle division, a little 
above the bottom. On this is placed 



Fig. 3. 




CISTEKN FILTERING. 



Fig. 4. 



a 




j> 




V --v r 




iM 


^==:£~ 


n 


J "I 









^ 



DOUBLE CISTEKN FILTEBIKG. 



3^ 



Hydropathic Cook-Book:. 



Cleaning Filtering Apparatus — Cask Filter. 



Fiff. 5. 



a layer of small pebbles, then coarse sand, then layers of char- 
coal, then fine sand and charcoal, the whole covered by a cloth 
also fixed just below the aperture b. The water is put in the 
division a, passes below the first partition, and by its pressure 
rises through the perforated plate or cloth, c, also through the 
pebbles, sand, and charcoal, and passing through the cloth 
above, runs through an aperture in the partition 6, into the 
last division, from which it is drawn as wanted. 

All kinds of filtering apparatus may be cleansed by making 
the water pass in the contrary direction. Thus in fig. 4, fill 
the division b with impure water, and it will wash all the 
accumulated impurities of the filter back to the division a, 
from which they may be di'awn off. 

An easy method of filtering water coming from a roof or 
any surface above the apparatus is shown in fig. 5. Two 

cross partitions made of wood, 
which is perforated with holes, 
burnt by a hot iron, are introduced 
into a cask, as at a, b. Over each 
partition is placed a piece of 
woolen cloth, and between them 
layers of coarse and fine sand, and 
of charcoal ; c is a pipe from the 
roof, the water from which passes 
through the filtering materials and 
may be drawn off at b. By plac- 
ing another cistern on a higher 
level, as c?, to receive the water 
first, it will descend through the pipe, e, enter the cask at 6, 
and by the pressure of the water in d will ascend through 
the filtering materials to a, and thus be doubly filtered and 
more completely purified. By placing a funnel at f^ water 
may be poured into and filtered through the cask, independent 
of any supply from the roof. When the sand requires clean- 




CASK FILTEE. 



ing it must be taken out and washed 



Elements of Food. 



33 



Eevolving Filter— Box Filtering Apparatus — Jar Filter. 

A machine, in some respects more convenient than the 
preceding is represented by fig. 6. Fig. 6. 

A caslc is hung on an axis so that 
it may be turned lilvc a barrel 
churn. A short, hollow, cylin- 
drical piece, 6, is fixed on the 
lower part to contain a piece of 
sponge. Connect with this, b}- 
means of a flange and screws, a 
pipe, c, to supply water from a cis- 
tern above. The water will rise through the sponge and sand, 
and may be drawn off at d. The same may be cleaned by 




KBVOLVING CASK FILTEK 



taking out the pipe and sponge, 
stopping up, temporarily, the aper- 
ture, and giving the cask, partly 
filled with water, several turns with 
the wrench. 

A still more simple filtering ap- 
paratus is shown in fig. 7. Any 
convenient vessel, as a, b, may be 
fitted with three partitions. The 
upper one should have an aperture 
with a sponge stuffed into it, c, to 
retain the coarser impurities ; the 
two lower partitions made of wood 
and perforated with small holes bv 
a red-hot iron, and covered with 
woolen cloth. Between these two, 
sand and coarsely-powdered char- 
coal are put. A hole is made in the 
bottom vessel at c, through which 
the filtered water may be caught. 

Any jar, watering-pot, or other 
conveniently shaped vessel may 
answer for filtering through sand 

2* 



Fig. 7. 



^ G= 



il'^ 



BOS FILTERING APPARATUS. 



Fig. 8. 




JAB FILTER. 



34 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



Fig. 9. 




The most simple Filter— Yarn Filter — London Stone-ware Filter. 

and charcoal. Fig. 8 is a large garden-pot with a hole in the 
bottom, into which is inserted a small tube, or a round bit of 
wood with a hole in it, through which the filtered water passes 
into the vessel placed there to receive it. 

The most simple, perhaps, of all filtering contrivances is 
represented in fig. 9. A thick 
wick or skein of cotton or worsted 
thread is hung over the edge of a 
deep basin or jar ; and the water 
follows the course of the threads, 
by what is called capillary attrac- 
tion, leaving the impurities behind. 
The filtration, however, is not as 
complete as by other methods. 

The original London stone-ware 
filter, of which most of the similar 
devices seen in the shops are modi- 
fications or imitations, is shown in fig. 
10. The impure water is put in the ves- 
sel at a, passes through the cock, 6, and 
drops into the projecting lip of another 
vessel at c, which has a movable par- 
tition pierced with numerous small holes. 
A piece of woolen cloth or a slice of 
sponge is placed on this partition to stop 
the coarser impurities ; the water next 
passes through the holes into the lower 
part, which is filled with bruised charcoal. 
In the bottom of this vessel are also 
holes, to enable the water to pass into a third vessel, d, whei-e 
the water passes through sand, by which the process is com 
pleted. All the parts of this apparatus are easily separated 
and cleansed, which is, indeed, an importaii: consideration in 



YAKN FILTEE. 



Fig. 10. 




BTONB-'WAKE FILTER. 



all filters. 



Elements of Food. 



Waters purified by Filtration — Cooling "Water — Gum — Sugar. 

The principle of filtration being understood, all persons 
under almost all circumstances can contrive some plan of pro- 
curing a sufficient supply of pure water for drinking purposes. 
It must be recollected, however, that substances held in solu- 
tion are not removed in this way. Ordinary well or mineral 
waters, which, though transparent, are hard, can only be puri- 
fied by distillation ; and this is an expensive and tedious pro- 
cess. But river, brook, rain, or water containing vegetable, 
animal, and gaseous impurities, which give it a discolored or 
muddy appearance, can be purified in this way. 

Cooling water is, in this climate, generally effected with ice. 
But when ice is not obtainable, it may be advantageous to 
many to be reminded tliat water, in any ordinary earthen or 
stone pitcher, or other vessel, can be reduced several degrees 
by evaporation. Place several folds of linen or cotton cloth 
around the vessel, wet them as often as they become dry, and 
the constant evaporation will gradually abstract the heat of 
the water within the vessel. The more porous the vessel is, 
the more rapidly will the water cool. 

Gum, or mucilage, exists almost universally in plants. 
Barley-meal contains in one hundred parts, 4 ; oatmeal, 2 ; 
wheat-flour, 2 to 5 ; wheaten bread, 18; rye-meal, 11; corn, 
2; rice, 0.1 ; peas, G ; garden bean, 4; kidney bean, 19; po- 
tatoes, 3 to 4 ; cabbage, 3 ; sweet almonds, 3 ; ripe green- 
gage, 5 ; ripe fresh pears, 3 ; gooseberries, 0.78 ; cherries, 3 ; 
ripe apricot, 5 ; ripe peach, 5 ; linseed, 5 ; mashmallow 
root, 35. 

Sugar is generally distributed throughout the vegetable 
kingdom. It is also found in the milk of animals. Wheat 
flour contains (rejecting fractions) 8 per cent. ; wheat bread, 
4 to 8 ;. oatmeal, 8 ; barley-meal, 5 ; rye-meal, 3 ; maize, 1 
to 2 ; rice, 0.05 to 0.29 ; peas, 2 ; sweet almonds, 6 ; figs, 
G2; tamarinds, 12; ripe green-gage, 11; pears, 6; ripe 
gooseberries, 6; ripe cherries, 18; ripe apricot, 11; ripe 
peach, 16 ; melon, 1 to 2 ; beet root, 5 to 9 ; milk, 4 to 7, 



86 



IIydeopathio Cook-Book. 



Sugar-cane — Maple Sugar — Confectionery — Kef3ning Sugar. 

The sugar in common use is manufactured from a cane or 

reed culled su2;ar-cane (fi<j. 

■p* 11 o \ o 

'^' * 11). The sap of the maple 

tree of the American forests 
yields a large amount of 
sugar in the spring season. 
Sugar was scarcely known, 
and certainly not in com- 
mon use, among the ancient 
Greeks and Romans ; and 
there can be no question 
that it is generally used to 
an injurious excess. Were 
proper attention paid to the 
cultivation of the sweet and 
sub-acid fruits and esculent 
roots, we should have an 
abundant supply of saccha- 
rine matter in the very best 
possible state, without resorting to the crystallized product of 
the expressed juice of plants. 

Sugar is made into an immense variety of candies, confec- 
tions, lozenges, etc., most of which are poisoned with coloring 
matters, and many of which are drugged with apothecary 
stuff. The intelligent physiologist will repudiate their em- 
ployment in every form or shape. 

The raw sugars of commerce contain various impurities ; 
and the refined and very dry sugars tend to constipate the 
bowels. The best article for dietetical purposes is of a pale 
yellow color, with large, clear, brilliant crystals. 

The art of refining sugar was unknown until the early part 
of the sixteenth century. Lime and albumen — the latter ob 
tained from the serum of bullock's blood or the white of 
eggs — are mostly employed in refining. Ch-arcoal is used for 
bleaching it. 




THE 8UGAE-CANE TLAUT. 



Elements OF Food. 37 

Syrup — Molasses and Treacle — Manna — Honey — Starch. 



Sirup is made by dissolving two pounds and a half of sugar 
in a pint of water. Molasses is the viscid fluid which drains 
from raw sugar. Treacle is a dark-brown uncrystallized sirup 
which drains from the molds in which refined sugar concretes. 
Molasses and treacle can be deprived of their peculiar rank 
taste by boiling for half an hour with pulverized charcoal. 

Sirups made with raw sugar may be bleached by filtration in 
the following manner (fig. 12.) : A A is a wooden funnel lined 
with tinned copper. Above the bottom is Fig. 12. 

another bottom, 6, which is movable, sup- 
ported on feet, and perforated with small 
holes. Over this a piece of cloth is laid. 
Animal charcoal, c, reduced to grains like 
gunpowder, is placed on the cloth. An- 
other movable cover, aho pierced fall of 
holes, d, is placed over the charcoal, and 
upon this is put the sirup, e, which is to be 
purified. The sirup is drawn oft' at the 

SpicOt. MOLASSES PILTEEEB. 

Manna is a saccharine substance, intermediate between cane 
sugar and honey. It is the concrete juice of a species of ash 
{Fraxmus omus), which exudes spontaneously, and is obtained 
by incisions made into the stem of the tree. 

Honey is a species of sugar, consisting of a crystallizable 
portion, and a liquid sirup which can not be solidified. Its 
nature is much influenced by the flowers on which the bees 
feed. The best known is said to be from the Peak of Tene- 
riffe. In some localities honey is poisonous, no doubt 
owing to the nature of the plants or flowers. The bees col- 
lect, by means of their proboscis, the sweet juice contained in 
the nectaries or honey-cups of flowers ; and although this 
juice is somewhat modified by the secretions of the animal, it 
is still a vegetable substance. Dietetically, however, it is in 
ferior to sugar. 

Starch is a constituent of the seeds, fruits, roots, stem% 




H rDKOPATHic Book-Cook. 



Iceland Moss — Corn Starch — Cassava Bread — Canna Starch. 



tubers, and mosses of a large portion of the vegetable king 
dom. Iceland moss contains 44 parts in 100 ; tapioca, 7 
to 25 ; arrow-root, 12 to 26 ; yam, 12 ; bread-fruit, 3 ; bar- 
ley-meal, 67; oatmeal, 59; wheat-flour, 56 to 72; wheat- 
bread, 53 ; rye-meal 61 ; maize, or Indian corn, 80 ; rice, 32 
to 85 ; peas, 34 ; beans, 35 ; potatoes, 9 to 18. 

Corn starch is now being extensively manufactured, as it is 
much used as an article of diet. Of course its nutritive value 
'' is far inferior to that of the whole grain. Indeed, the value of 
all amylaceous preparations as food for invalids is commonly 
greatly overrated. The different kinds of starch in market 
are sago, tapioca, arrow-root, rice starch, wheat starch, corn 
starch, potato starch, and lichenin, or feculoid, obtained from 
Iceland moss. The cassava bread, used in Brazil, Guiana, 
Jamaica, and other places, is a preparation of the whole roots 
of the plant which yields the tapioca. 

The appearance of starch grains as magnified by the micro- 
scope, has attracted much of the attention of analytical chem^ 
ists, and so far as the investigation of any principle pertaining 
to the philosophy of eating is concerned, such examinations 
may be regarded as rather curious than useful. The facts 
developed are, however, of importance in enabling us to de- 
^'.-•^3- monstrate with mathe- 

matical precision, the 
principles in physiology 
which are established by 
other methods of investi- 
gation. 

Pig. 13 represents the 
grains of the Tons les 
Mois, or canna starch. 
It is imported from St. 
Kitts, and is prepared by 
a troublesome and tedious process from the rhizome of the 
canna coccinea of botanists. 




GRAINS OF CANNA STAECn. 



Elements of Food. 



39 



Grains of Potato Starch— West Indian Arrow-root— Sago Starcli— Grains of Tapioca. 



Fig. 14, representing the 
grains of potato starch, 
shows the normal starch 
particle, a; irregular 
starch particle, b ; parti- 
cles each having two hila, 
c, d ; particles broken by 
pressure and water (the 
internal matter remaining 
solid), e,f,g. 

Fig. 15 represents the 
grains of the West Indian arrow-root. 

Fig. 16. 




GRAINS OF POTATO STAKCH. 



Fig. IT. 




AEROW-EOOT STAKCH. 



SAGO STAKCH GRAINS. 



ENTIEK GRAINS OF TAFIOOA. 



In fig. 16 are seen grains of the sago-meal. Sago is the 
medulla or pith of the stems of various species of palm ; it is 
manufactured principally in the Moluccas, and comes to us in 
the forms of sago-meal, pearl-sago, and common sago. The 
first is principally employed in making sago sugar ; the sec- 
ond is generally used for domestic purposes. Common or 
brown sago comes to us in brownish-white grains, vaiying in 
size from the grains of pearl barley to those of peas. 

Fig. 17 shows the entire grains of tapioca. The Brazilian 
plant from the roots of which the tapioca is obtained is said 
to be poisonous. The irregular lumpy form in which the article 
is found in our market, is owing to its being dried on hot 
plates. 

Fig. 18 exhibits a section of the stem of the sago tree, 
showing the pith from whbh the sago is extracted. The 



40 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



stem of the Sago Tree. — Grains of "Wheat Starch. — Varieties of Arro^-Eoot. 

tree grows to the height of thirty feet or more, and measur&rf 
five or six feet in circumference. One large tree will yield 
from to two to four hundred pounds of sago flour. 



Fig. 18. 




STEM OF THE 6 AGO TEEE. 



EAST INDIAN AEKOW-KOOT. 



Fig. 19 exhibits the grains of Tahiti arrow- root, or Otaheite 
salep. It is prepared by the native converts at the mission- 
ary stations in the South Sea Islands. 

Fig. 20 represents the grains of East Indian arrow-root. It 
is imported from Calcutta. In Travancore it forms a large 
proportion of the food of the lower classes. 
Fi<:. 21. 






^'^: 



Fig. 22. 
©® 

POETIAND AKKOW-EOOT. 



GEAIN8 OF WHEAT STAECH. 

The grains of wheat starch are seen in fig. 21 ; a is a particle 
as seen eageways. 

Fig 22 shows the grains of Portland arrow-root, some- 



Elements OF Food. 41 

Amylaceous Preparations — Ligneous Matter — Fungin. 

times called Portland sago. It is obtained from the roots 
of the arum maculatuw, (wake-robin, laiian turnip). 

An immense variety of starchy or amylaceous preparations 
have been introduced into our market, under medical and 
commercial authorities, as light, easily digestible, and highly 
nutritious food " for children and invalids." They are not, 
as already intimated, to be compared with more complex ali- 
ments, or the whole roots, plants, grains, etc., as principal 
articles of diet. 

Lignin^ or woody fiber, is found in every variety of vege- 
table matter. It forms the skin of potatoes, the husk of vari- 
ous berries, the peel and core of apples, pears, the bran of 
grains, etc. Rice contains of ligneous matter 4.8 per cent. ; 
barley, 18.75; oats, 34; rye, 24 ; ripe apricots, 1.86; ripe 
green-gages, 1.11 ; ripe peaches, 1.21 ; ripe gooseberries, 
8.01 ; ripe cherries, 1.12 ; ripe pears, 2.19 ; sweet almonds, 
9; peas, 21.08; garden bean, 25.94; kidney bean, 18.57; 
potatoes, 4.03 to 10.05 ; cocoa-nut kernel, 14.95. 

In nothing is the modern act of cooking more mischievous 
than in rejecting, as innutritious, this alimentary principle. In 
fact, bran and other forms of lignin are just as indispensable 
to healthful nutrition, as are starch, gum, sugar, fibrin, etc. 
Medical writers often recommend its em'ployment as a me- 
chanical irritant " to stimulate the action of the bowels," just 
as they do gamboge or pulverized glass, forgetful that it is 
just as much a component part of all food as is fibrin, albumen, 
or casein. To healthy stomachs it is neither irritating nor 
stimulating. 

That ligneous matter is really nutritious, though not usually 
in the forms of bran, skins, etc., to any great extent assimi- 
lated, is proven by direct experiment, for good, wholesome, 
and palatable bread has been made of solid wood, dried and 
ground to an impalpable powder. 

Fungin, the fleshy part of mushrooms, is a variety of 
lignin. 



42 Htdeopathic Cook-Jjook. 

Jelly — Organic Acids — Lactic Acid — Vinegar — Fats and Oils. 

Jelly is found in both animals and vegetables. It exists in 
the most pulpy fruits, and in many edible roots. The pulps 
of fruits and sugar are called jams. The vegetable principle, 
called jelly, is somewhat analogous to the animal principle, 
called gelatin, and some dietetical writers confound them. 
They are, however, essentially different, though dietetically 
the difference is unimportant, for neither possess much nutri- 
tive value, except as they exist in combination with other ali- 
mentary principles. 

Several organic acids which are formed in the process of 
vegetable growth, are usually regarded as alimentary principles. 
Citric, tartaric, 7nalic, and oxalic acids belong to this class. 
Acetic and lactic acids are also considered to be organic and 
alimentary by most dietetical writers, but I think errone- 
ously. The former is a product of decomposition instead of 
formation ; and the latter is only found in unhealthy stomachs, 
sour milk, and fermenting vegetables. Vinegar is so far from 
being alimentary, that, like alcohol, it is a product of vegetable 
decay, and always injurious to the human stomach. 

Vegetable acids, it should be remarked, vary greatly in the 
different stages of the growth of the plant, root, seed, or fruit 
yielding them. Some are found in much greater proportions 
during the growth of the plant than in its maturity ; and some 
are lost and others developed in the process of the ripening of 
fruits — an evidence conclusive that the organic powers of the 
vegetable kingdom can at least transmute their proximate ele- 
ments into each other. 

Fat comprehends the various oleaginous substances of ani- 
mals and vegetables, as suet, lard, tallow, marrow, grease, but- 
ter, blubber, and almond, olive, walnut, and other nut oils. Ani- 
mal oils are among the least nutritious and most injurious 
kinds of alimentary materials. The oil"- from the vegetable 
kingdom are far more wholesome, and probably, to a well- 
trained stomach, perfectly innocuous. 

Medical books are full of errors respecting the dietetical 



Elements OF Food. 43 

Physiological Errors— Volatile Oils — Fixed Oils or Fats. 

properties of fatty and oily matters. By most medical wri- 
ters they are said to be " eminently nutritious," though all 
confess they are very " difficult of digestion." This, to my 
mind, is a physiological contradiction. 

The writers of the Liebig school of chemistry have propa- 
gated some very absurd vagaries about the use of oleaginous 
foods in the animal economy. Upon the well-known facts 
that carbon exists largely in alimentary substances ; that car- 
bon is oxydized in the system ; and that the chemical combi- 
nation (combustion) of oxygen with carbon is attended with 
the evolution of heat, these chemico-dietetico-physiological 
philosophers have constructed a theory^ that a large amount 
of grease, fat, oil, butter, blubber, or something similar, is 
necessary to keep the body warm, especially in cold climates. 
And I hear that certain Water-Cure doctors and professors of 
hygiene are teaching the same ridiculous notions, as if they 
were the veritable demonstrations of science. 

The volatile oils of several vegetables which are employed 
chiefly as condiments, are regarded as alimentary by some 
authors. This is a mistake. Though some vegetables them- 
selves, as radishes, onions, mustard, garlics, leeks, etc., contain 
alimentary properties with this volatile oil, the oil itself is as 
destitute of them as alcohol or vinegar. 

The quantity of oil or fat in 100 parts of the following sub- 
stances is : filberts, 60 ; olives, 32 ; olive seeds, 54 ; walnuts, 
50 ; earth nut, 47 ; cocoa nut, 47 ; almonds, 46 ; plums, 33 ; 
white mustard, 36 ; black mustard, 18; grape stones, 11 to 
18 ; maize, 9 ; dates, 0.2 ; yolk of eggs, 28 ; ordinary flesh- 
meat, 14; ox liver, 4; cow's milk, 3.13; human do., 3.55 ; 
ass's do., 0.11 ; goat's do., 3.32; ewe's do., 4.20; bones of 
sheep's feet, 5.55 ; bones of ox head, 11.54. 

Though fixed oils or fats are among the most injurious 
materials of diet, they are rendered still more objectionable 
by the usual methods of cooking, baking, and frying. 

The most objectionable dishes at ordinary tables, on account 



44: BVDEOPATHIC CoOK-BoOK. 

Flesh and Fat of Swine — Fibrin — Albumen — Casein. 

of their fatty character, or of the grease cooked into them, 
are yolk of eggs, livers, brains, strong cheese, butter cakes, pas- 
try^ marrowpuddings, suet puddings, hashes, stetos,. broths, and 
several kinds of fishes, as eels, sprats, salmon, herrings, etc. 
The greasy parts of that filthy animal, the hog, in the shape 
of fat pork, bacon, lard, sausages, etc., are prolific sources of 
scrofula, erysipelas, jaundice, liver diseases, leprosy, scurvy, 
and a variety of cutaneous blotches, discolorations, and erup- 
tions. 

Fibrin, albumen, and casein exist alike and are identical 
in chemical constitution in both animal and vegetable foods. 
But they are formed only in the vegetable kingdom ; hence, 
as heretofore intimated, those who eat flesh get precisely the 
same nutritive elements as those who eat bread ; yet they are 
always more or less deteriorated by admixtures with morbid 
secretions, and waste and putrescent animal matters. 

Vegetable fibrin is found abundantly in the cereal grains, 
and in the juice of grapes. It also exists inconsiderable quan- 
tities in the juices of many esculent roots and vegetables, as 
carrots, turnips, beet-root. 

Animal fibrin is the principal constituent of lean muscle oi 
lean flesh. It is also found in fresh blood, from which it ca» 
easily be obtained by stirring with a stick until a clot i* 
formed, and then washing the clot repeatedly. 

Vegetable albumen exists in the greatest proportion in oilj 
seeds, almonds, and other nuts. It is a constituent of all th« 
grains, and carrots, turnips, asparagus, cabbages, and other 
esculent roots ; fruits and vegetables contain it in considerable 
quantity. It differs from fibrin in dissolving in water, and 
from casein in not coagulating when heated. 

Animal albumen exists in the solid state in the flesh, glands, 
and viscera, and in the fluid state in the egg, and in the serum 
of the blood. 

Vegetable casein is found chiefly in leguminous seeds — ^pea.'», 
beans, and lentils — from which circumstance it has been called 



Elements of Food. 45 

Caseum or Curd — Cheese — Gluten — Gelatin. 

legumin. Many vegetable juices yield it in small quantities. 
Almonds, nuts, and oily seeds contain it with albumen. It 
is soluble in water and its aqueous solution is not coagulated 
by heat. 

Animal casein is the coagulable matter in milk, and forms 
its caseum or curd. Heat does not coagulate it in the liquid 
state. Cheese is the coagulated casein deprived of its whey, 
and mixed with more or less of butter. Cheese which con- 
tains a large proportion of butter — usually called rich or strong 
cheese — is very liable to become poisonous by spontaneous 
decomposition. Old strong cheese is among the vilest of die- 
tetic abominations. Fresh curd and green cheese are com- 
paratively wholesome. 

Gluten is a compound of several organic principles, and 
exists most abundantly in wheat. It is also contained ia 
greater or less proportions in nearly all the cereal grains, and 
in most edible roots, leaves, stalks, etc. It is the gluten of 
wheaten flour which renders it elastic and adhesive, and hence 
conveniently manufactured into maccaroni, vermicelli, and 
similar pastes. It is the gluten also which retains the car- 
bonic acid evolved in the process of fermentation, and thus 
enables yeast and acids and alkalis to raise bread. 

The quantity of gluten yielded by vegetable alimentary 
substances varies with the soil, climate, mode of cultivation, 
etc. Chemical analysis has found in wheat, in 100 parts, 12 
to 35 ; barley, 5 to 6 ; oats, 4 to 8 ; rye, 7 to 10 ; rice, 3 to 4 ; 
corn, 3 to 6 ; common beans, 10; dry peas, 3-^; pota- 
toes, 3 to 4 ; red beet, 1.3; common turnips, 0.01; cab- 
bage, 0.08. 

Gelatin abounds in the bones, ligaments, tendons, cartilage, 
integuments, etc., of animals. When boiled with water into 
a tremulous mass it is (ailed animal jelly. Gelatinous sub- 
stances are moderately nutritious, but their usual preparations 
in the forms of stews, soups, hashes, etc., are difficult of diges- 
tion on account of the fatty matters they contain. Calf^s-foot 



46 Hydkopathio Cook-Book. 

. _^ , . i . i 

Blanc Mange — Glue — Jellies — Saline Matters — Common Salt. 

jelly is a favorite article with physicians and invalids, but is 
far inferior to simple Indian or wheat-meal gruel. 
• Muscle yields, of gelatin, in 100 parts, 5 to 7 ; antlers of 
stag, 27 ; caviare (fresh), 0.5 ; spongy bones, 39 ; hard bones, 
43 to 49 ; isinglass, 70 to 93. 

Blanc Mange is prepared of Russian isinglass dissolved in 
milk and flavored with sugar, lemon, etc. Glue is extensively 
prepared from the skins, hides, and bones of animals, for both 
dietetical and commercial purposes. That obtained from cod 
sounds is often used as a substitute for isinglass. Jellies made 
from calves^ feet, calves^ heads, coles' heels, sheeps^ trotters, and 
sucking pigs' feet {petittoes), are in great repute as delicate 
aliments for invalids and epicures. They are miserable trash 
as compared with vegetable soups or farinaceous gruels. 

Various saline matters are found to exist in small quantities 
in fruits and vegetables, the most abundant of which are the 
earthy phosphates. Chloride of sodium, or rather its elements, 
salts of piotash, etc., are also generally found and regarded as 
essential constituents, and therefore alimentary principles. 
Many physiologists, with singular absurdity, deduce a conclu- 
sion in favor of the dietetic employment of common salt, as 
an external seasoning to our food, from the fact that it exists 
naturally as a constituent of the vegetables we employ as 
food. It would be not a whit less absurd to argue that our 
foods ought to be seasoned with salts of potash, phosphate of 
lime, carbonate of lime, ferruginous compounds, etc., because 
these are found among their proximate constituents ! Nature 
must have made a strange blundei', if in compounding the sub 
stances destined for human food, she only put in half enough 
of one of the requisite ingredients, but mixed all the rest in 
exactly the right proportions ! 

Pereira says : " Though salt is a constituent in most of our 
foods and drinks, we do not, in this way, obtain a sufficient 
supply of it to satisfy the wants of the system ; and nature 
has accordingly furnished us with an appetite for it. The salt. 



Elements OF Food. 47 

Error with regard to Salt— The Japanese— Useless Experiments. 

therefore, which we consume at our table as a condiment, in 
reality serves other and far more important purposes in the 
animal economy, than that of merely gratifying the palate. 
It is a necessary article of food, being essential for the preser- 
vation of health and the maintenance of life." 

All of the above assertions are purely fictitious. Common 
salt is in no sense dietetical. It is entirely a foreign irritant, 
and its free employment renders the blood putrescent, the 
solids dry and rigid, the muscles inflexible, and the glands 
obstructed. The notion that it is essential to life or health 
is positively disproved by the experience of the millions of 
Japan, who have never yet known its dietetic use. 

In all the cook-books I am acquainted with, a great or 
greater dose of salt is a fixture in every receipt ; and hardly a 
dish or preparation is named in which a " pinch," or " tea- 
spoonful, or " table-spoonful" of salt is not prescribed as one 
of the ingredients. The " natural appetite," which Pereira 
supposes nature has furnished us with to secure the salting 
of our food, is just as natural, and no more so, than that which 
many persons have for vinegar, pepper, alcohol, and tobacco — 
a kind of " second nature." 

Those Avho would prepare healthful food, and those who 
desire to " eat to live," should ever bear in mind that none 
of the alimentary principles we have iDeen considering is 
capable of itself of properly nourishing the body. Neither 
of them, in the proper sense, is food, but merely a constituent 
part of food. And almost all the aliments or substances used 
for food contain very nearly, and some of them quite, all of 
these proximate elements. Hence the futility of all the mul- 
titudinous experiments in feeding human beings or animals 
on a constituent part of an aliment instead of the aliment 
itself. Such experiments only show the physiological igno- 
rance of the experimenters. 



CHAPTER III. 

ALIMENTS, OR FOODS PKOPEK. 

TiKDEMAN has arranged the following classification of vege' 
table aliments, which I shall follow in their description : 

I. Aliments derived from Flowering Plants. 

4. Buds, and young Shoots, 

5. Leaves, Leaf-stalks, & Flowers, 
Stems, 6. Receptacles and Bracts, 

7. Stems. 



Seeds, 

Fleshy Fruits, 
Roots, Subterraneous 
and Tubers, 



IL Aliments derived from Flowerlcss Plants. 

1. Ferns, 13. Algoe, or Sea- weeds, 

2. Lichens, 4. Fungi, or Mushrooms. 



§ 1. Semina or Seeds. — These may be classified in the 
following manner : 



r Wheat, 
Oats, 
Barley, 

j Bye, 

Certal Grains or corn. { Rice, 
Maize, 
Millet, 
Sorghum, 
Durra. 



Leguminous Seeds. 



f Peas, 
Pulse. < Beans, 
V Lentils. 



I 



Cupuliferae. — Chestnut. 



r Butternut, 
Almond, 
Walnut, 
Hazel nut. 
Filbert, 
Cashew nut, 

{ Cocoa nut. 
Peanut, 
Beech nut, 
Brazil nut, 
Madeira nut, 
Pistachio nut, 
Acorn. 



To the above list I must add vegetable milk ; the juice of 
the cow tree, as it is called, which grows to a vast height amid 



Aliments, or Foods Proper. 



49 



Proximate Elements of Cereal Grains — Varieties of Wheat.* 

the arid mountains of South America, and supplies the Indian 
of the Cordilleras with a rich, yellowish-white fluid, more 
nutritive than the milk of any animal we are acquainted with. 



-The proximate elements of the cereal 



Sugar, 

Gum, 

Earthy Phosphates, 

Ligneous Matter (bran, husk, 

etc.). 
Water. 



Cereal Grains 
grains are : 
Starch, 

Vegetable Albumen, 
Vegetable Fibrin, ^ 
Glutine, I Raw or Ordi- 

Mucine, j nary Gluten. 

Oily Matter, j 

Wheat, as a leading article of food, is raised in preference 
to all other grains, wherever it can be conveniently cultivated. 
Several varieties are known to botanists and agriculturists, 
but those generally cultivated in tbis and most European 
countries are called winter wheat [Tri- 
ticum hyberniami), and spring wheat 
( Triticum cestivum). The latter is also 
called summer wheat. In fig. 23, a rep- 
resents a head of winter, and b one of 
spring, wheat ; the latter differing from 
the former in having awns, or beards, 
like barley. 

In Europe, wheats are distinguished 
into hard and soft varieties ; the former 
growing in the warm regions — Italy, 
Sicily, Barbary, etc., and the latter in 
the northern parts of Europe — Belgium, 
England, Denmark, etc. In this coun- 
try, the red, or Southern, wheat corres- 
ponds to the hard variety ; and the Western, or white, to the soft. 
The latter contains more starch, «.nd the former more gluten, 
which renders it more profitable to the baker, who, for com- 
mercial reasons, looks more to the size than quality of his loaf. 

3 




HEADS OP ■WHEAT. 



50 Htdeopathic Cook- Book. 

Extraordinary Productiveness of Wheat — Frauds and Adulterations. 

All the cerealia are remarkable for their extraordinary- 
power of multiplication ; a fact to my mind presumptive at 
least, that starvation among the inhabitants of this world is 
owing, to a great extent, to that abuse of agricultural science 
which cultivates animals for the butcher, instead of corn for 
the reaper. A Mr. Miller, of Cambridge, England, once 
sowed, on the 2d of June, a few grains of wheat which pro- 
duced eighteen stalks. On the 8th of August following he 
divided the stalks from each other, each having its root, and 
planted them again separately. Every separate plant jbhen 
again tilled, threw out fresh roots and stalks. These were 
again taken up, divided, and planted as before, and so on 
several times. By the succeeding April they had multiplied 
to 800 vigorous plants ; the number of ears from them all 
amounted to 21,109, and the grains to 576.840 ! 

Those who superintend the preparation of food for invalids 
should be careful in selecting wheat whose berrias are plump 
and well cleaned. Millers and provision dealers are doubt- 
less as honest as people in general; but they are not all 
either intelligent concerning or regardful of the health of their 
customers. The use of unbolted flour, crack^id wheat, etc., 
opens the way to every species of fraud ; for the poorest and 
dirtiest kinds of wheat may be ground into Graham flour, or 
broken into wheaten grits without the purchaser being able 
to tell precisely what the impurities are. Chafl* and cockle 
are common admixtures of the articles which are found in our 
markets ; and stale or sour superfine flour is often mixed 
with " shorts," and perhaps a little alkali of some kind, and 
passed off" as wheat-meal or Graham flour. 

Those who would be sure of a proper article had better 
trust only themselves. I have long since despaired of being 
able to get clean and sound grains, or proper farinaceous 
preparations at our mills in this city and vicinity, and have 
been compelled, in order to supply my own establishment, to 
construct a steam-mill on my own premises ; so that by grind- 



Aliments, oe Foods Proper. 51 

Hand-mills — Proper Method of Making Wheat-meal — Kice. 

ing our own grain we can have ocular demonstration of its 
character and quality. 

Hand-mills or common coffee mills will answer for making 
cracked wheat for family use; and enough for an ordinary 
water-cure establishment may be ground in the largest-sized 
coffee mills which are kept at the hardware stores. 

When wheat-meal is manufactured at the flouring mill, the 
miller ought to understand that the stones should be well 
sharpened so as to cut the whole grain into fine particles, in- 
stead of mashing it, as will happen when the stones are dull. 
In the former case the bran is cut up and mingled with the 
fine flour, and in the latter it is separated in flakes or scales. 
This will never make good bread, for, besides the rough and 
uneven appearance of the loaf, the particles are not uniformly 
mixed with the yeast or other risings, the consequence of 
which is that some parts of the loaf are over-fermented, while 
others are not fermented enough. Fig. J4. 

Rice [Ori^a Saiiva) probably affords 
more human beings nourishment than 
any other aliment in existence. It is a 
plant of Asiatic origin, and is the principal 
food of the people of India and China. 
Common rice is a marsh plant, though in 
some countries a variety called hill rice 
grows on the slopes of hills. Carolina 
rice is the best in the New York and Lon- 
don markets, and the large plump seeds 
called head rice are the most highly prized. 
In its growth, rice resembles barley very 
nearly. It rises to the height of about a 
foot and a half, and then branches into sev- 
eral stems, at the top of which the grains 
form in clusters, as seen in fig. 24. 

Wild rice, called by the Indians meno- 
weme, grows abundantly along the branch- mj^ of eic«. 




62 



HtDROP ATHi.C CoOK-BoOK. 



Oats— Oatmeal— Groats— Porridge— Stirabout— Barley. 

es of the Upper Mississippi, and on the marshy margins of the 
northern lakes, where it rises up from a muddy bottom some 
six feet under water. 

Oats [Arena Sativa) have been extensively used as food by 

the people of Scotland, and to some extent in this and other 

countries. It is one of the hardiest of the cerealia, and pre- 

Fig. 25. fers a rather cold climate. The most 

common variety is the white oat (fig. 

25). The black oat and several other 

kinds are also more or less cultivated. 

Oatmeal is prepared by grinding 

the kiln-dried seeds, deprived of their 

husks and outer skin. Groats are the 

[grains deprived of their integuments. 

Oatmeal is made into b7'ead or cakes, 

mush, 2)or7'idge, stirabout, etc. As an 

exclusive diet, it is less constipating 

than rice, but more so than wheat-meal. 

Barley is more easily cultivated, and 

will mature through a greater range of 

climate than any other grain. It grows rapidly. In Lapland it is 




HEAD OP OATS. 



Fig. 26. 




sown and reaped within six 
M'eeks, and in Spain two 
crops are raised in a year. 

The principal varieties 
are spring or suvimer bar- 
ley [Hordeum vulyai-e),win- 
tcr barley {Hordeum hex- 
ustico)i), and common or 
long-ear edbar ley {Hordeum 
distichon). In fig. 26, a 
represents ahead of spring, 
and b one of winter, barley. 

Barley is less nutritive 
than wheat, but probably 



HEADS OP BAELBT. 



Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 



53 



Preparations of Barley — Eye — Black Bread — Ergot. 



nearly equal in dietetical value. It contains more mucilage, 
and about the same quantity of sugar and starch, and only one 
third the proportion of gluten. The rapidity with which the 
seed germinates favors its conversion into malt, and is the chief 
reason why the brewer has cursed mankind with the abuse of 
this grain, instead of the baker blessing them with its use. 

Pot barley, used for making broth, is the grain of which the 
outer skin only has been removed. Pearl barley is the small 
round kernel which remains after the skin and a considerable 
portion of the seed have been ground off. Patent barley is 
the pearl-barley ground to flour. 

Rye [Secale Cereale) is much used among the peasantry of Rus- 
sia, northern Germany, and most parts of north- ■^'2- ^^* 
ern Eujope. It is but little employed in this 
country, except in some parts of New Eng- 
land.. It contains more gluten than any other 
grain, except wheat, and hence ranks next to 
wheat for making fermented bread. The 
amount of saccharine and mucilaginous mat- 
ters it contains has caused it to be extensively 
used in the manufacture of those pernicious 
poisons, beer and whisky. 

Unbolted lye-meal is somewhat more lax- 
ative in cases of obstinate constipation than 
even wheat-meal. In Germany, rye-bread 
is called Schwartzbrot, or black bread. The 
hardy peasantry of Sweden make rye-cakes, 
which are baked only twice a year and be- 
come almost as hard as a board, a principal 
article of food. 

This grain is liable in some seasons to be affected with a 
morbid excrescence called spurred-rye, or ergot, which is medi- 
cinally or toxicologically a narcotic poison. Several epidemics 
have prevailed in Europe in consequence of eating rye-bread 
made of this diseased grain ; and no little havoc has been 




EAK OP ETB. 



'54 



Hydeopathic Cook-Book. 



Indian Coin — Corn Meal — Ilominy — Samp — Green Com. 

made with children and mothers in America, in consequence 
of the introductiL-n of this abnormal production into the allo- 
pathic materia medica. 

Indian Corn, or Maize {Hea Mays), was found native when 
this country was first discovered, and it now constitutes the 
Fie. 28. principal bread corn of a large portion of the United 
States, Mexico, and a great part of Africa. The varie- 
ties chiefly cultivated in America are, the yellow in 
the Northern, and the tvhite in the Southern and 
Western States. The latter is much the largest, the 
stalk growing from seven to fourteen feet in height. 
Physiologists are divided in opinion about the 
nutritive value of corn as compared with other 
grains, but experience seems to have settled the 
p^ question long ago ; for the American and West 
Indian laborers, and the athletic peasantry of the 
Tyrol, who subsist mainly upon it, think no other 
EAB OF CORN, brcad as strengthening. Corn-meal contains but 
little gluten, and therefore will not make good fermented 
bread unless mixed with the meal or flour of lye or wheat. 

Most of the Indian meal in our market is ground too fine 
at the mills. Such meal, made into cake or bread, is soft and 
clammy, whereas that made of coarse-ground meal is light, 
dry, and much more savory. Hominy is a preparation 
coarser than meal, and samp is made by breaking the kernels 
into still coarser particles. 

Green Corn is a favorite and not unwholesome article of 
food. For the purposes of roasting or boiling in the ear, the 
sugar or siveet corn is the best. Probably no single article of 
diet can supply nutriment with so little labor or cost as In- 
dian corn. Unfortunately, most of it cooked in this country is 
poisoned with that pernicious article, saleratus, which is em- 
ployed in cooking it. In the Southern and Western States 
corn-bread is sadly deteriorated by the plentiful admixture of 
lard or other grease. 




Aliments, ok Foods Peopee. 



65 



Buckwheat, or Beechwheat — Skin Diseases — Millet, or HiBse. 

Buckwheat {Pollygonum fagopyrum) fig. 29), sometimes 
QoWedi beechwheat from the re- Fig. 29. 

semblance of its seed to the 
nuts of the beech-tree, has no 
natural affinity with the cereal 
grains or grasses, but is sim- 
ilar in alimentary properties, 
and is sometimes employed 
in bread-making. It is less 
nutritive than wheat, con- 
tains more sugar, but less 
gluten and starch. It is usu- 
ally cooked in the forms of 
pottage, puddings, or griddle 
cakes. Various skin diseases 
have been attributed to its 
employment as food ; and 
they are really attributable to 
the melted butter, and sugar, 
pork, greasy sausages, etc., 
with which buckwheat cakes are usually eaten. 

Millet^ or Hirse [Fanicum sorghum) (fig. 30), forms the 
chief sustenance of the inhabitants of the arid regions of 
Arabia, Syria, Nubia, and some parts of India. It is culti- 

Fig. 80. 




BUCKWHEAT PLANT. 




ITAUAN MTLLBT. 



vated for the purposes of bread-making in some of the north- 
ern countries of Europe, and to a small extent in this country. 
It will not, however, grow luxuriantly except in a warm dim- 



66 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Peas — Beans — Lentils — Pea-Meal — Parched Peas — Split Peas — Lima Beans. 

ate. The seeds are extremely small, and round like mustard, 
and are often used as a substitute for rice and sago in making 
mushes, puddings, etc. They contain a large proportion of 
sugar, which circumstance has caused the brewers to appro- 
priate them largely to the manufacture of intoxicating drink. 

Legumes. — Peas, Beans, and L'Bntih are similar in proxi- 
mate constituents to the cereal grains. The varieties of pulse 
called Jcidney bean and garden bean were formerly employed 
by the English peasantry in bread making. Pea-meal is 
sometimes used for adulterating flour. Parched peas have 
been employed in the cultivation of ground coffee — one of the 
few frauds in alimentary articles which benefit more than 
they injure the party defrauded. Split j)eas are one of the 
best articles for making vegetable soup. Green peas and 
the young tender pods of garden beans are excellent relishes 
in their season. The best green peas in this market are the 
marrow fat variety, raised plentifully on Long Island. 

EinhofF gives the following composition of leguminous 
seeds, as the result of chemical analysis : 

Peas Garden Bean ^^tu^^?'"' T-entSs 

(Pisum sativum). (Vicia Faba). vulgaris) (Ervura Lens). 

Starch 82.45 84.1T 35.94 32.81 

Amylaceous fiber 21.88 15.89 11.07 18.75 

Legumine (t7((««;0 14.56 10.86 20.81 37.32 

Gum 6.37 4.61 19..37 5.99 

Albumen ,;.1.72 0.81 1.35 1.15 

Sweet Kxtractive matter . . 2.11 3.54 .' 3.41 3,12 

Membrane — 10.05 7.50 — 

Water 14.06 15.63 (dried) — 

Salta 6.56 3.46 0.55 0.5T 

Loss 0.29 0.98 — 0.29 



100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 

Lima Beans are one of the richest of the legumes. These 
and marrow-fat peas are dried in the green state, and sold 
in our markets during the winter months. By soaking in cold 
water over night they make an excellent green vegetable, oia 
being boiled, for the dinner meal. 



Aliments, oe Foods Peopee. 57 

t 

Chestnut— Horse-Chestnul^Butternut — Almonds — "Walnut. 

Nuts are divided into the /a?-maceoMs, of which the chestnut 
is the chief example, and oleaginous including the butter-nut, 
walnut, almond, and, indeed, nearly all the remainder of the 
nut tribe. 

CuPULiFER^. — The Chestnut [Casfanea vesca) was much 
used as food by the ancients ; and is now made into bread in 
some countries. Boiled chestnuts and milk form a common 
dish among the peasantry of the south of France. The tree 
is one of the largest of the forest, and often lives over 1,000 
years. Roasted or boiled the fruit is very light and digestible. 
The seeds of the horse-chestnut tree are similar in composi- 
tion, but less pleasantly flavored. 

Oleaginous Seeds. — The Butternut is one of the most 
oily of the nut seeds. The tree is very common in the Amer- 
ican forests. 

Almonds, both sweet and bitter, are the fruit of the Amyg- 
dalus communis. The Sweet Almond is mostly employed as 
a desert, and in flavoring cakes and puddings. 

Bitter Almonds are always poisonous. They yield both 
volatile oil and prussic acid when distilled with water, but 
contain neither in the natural state ; another evidence that 
elements unknown among the constituents of organic sub- 
stance may be formed in the different stages of their decom- 
position. Prussic acid is also formed in the mouth when the 
almonds are chewed. As a flavoring article, these poisonous 
seeds are extensively employed by cooks and confectioners. 

The Walnut [InglausBegia) is a native of the East. The 
sap of the tree is sweet, and sugar has been made from it. 
The seeds abound in oil, and in some countries are grated 
into tarts and puddings. Walnut oil has been employed as a 
substitute for olive oil in cooking, and also in the manufacture 
of soap. An extract from the green leaves makes a permanent 
brown dye, which is said to be used by the gipsies to give a 
dark color to the children they steal. 

3* 




68 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Hazel, Cocoa, Pea, Brazil Nuts — Filberts — Pistachio and Madeira-Nuts. 

The Hazel nut is the wild, and the Filbert the cultivated 
state of the same tree ( (Jorylus avellanci). They contain but 
little oil. The differen ; varieties of filberts in our markets 
are the Spanish mit, cob-nut, red filbert, and ivhite filbert. 
The Cashew nut [Anacordiuin Occidentale) is a production 
of tropical climates. The nut (fig. 30), 
somewhat resembles the walnut, and 
has an agreeable and mildly acid taste. 
The kernel is contained in two shells, 
between which is a thick rust-colored 
liquor, highly inflammable, and so caus- 
tic as to blister the skin. This liquor is 
used as an indelible ink for marking 
linen. The kernel itself abounds in a 
CASHEW NUT. delicious milky juice when fresh ; and is 

said to be preferable to the walnut. The juice also makes a 
good indelible black ink. 

The Cocoa-nut, which some authors insist in pronouncing 
cacao-nuts, is the fruit of one of the palms [Cocos Nucifero). 
It grows wild abundantly in eastern Asia and the islands of 
the Indian seas, and has spread from thence throughout the 
tropical regions. The trees blossom every four or five weeks. 
Fig. 32. and flowers and fruit are often seen together 

on the same tree. The fruit (fig. 31) is a 
white hollow kernel, filled with milk when 
fresh, and contained in a very hard shell. It 
is eaten raw, or rasped and made into cakes 
or fritters. The fresh milk of the cocoa-nut 
is an excellent fluid for moistening the meal 
cocoA-HnT. or grits in the preparation of uncooked bread 
or cakes, and the grated kernel is an agreeable and nutritious 
article to flavor them with. 

Peanuts, Brazil-nuts, and Madeira-nuts are well known in 
our markets, being for sale at most of the groceries and fruit 
stores. The Pistachio-nut grows in Sicily and Syria 3n a 




Aliments, oe Foods Peopee. 



59 



Acorn — Classification of the Fleshy Fruits. 



kind of pine tree. Its taste very much resembles that of 
sweet almonds. 

The acorn of the oak tree (Quercus) was an important 
article of food in the early ages; hence the frequent allu- 
sions to it by the classical writers. Its flavor is somewhat 
rough and disagreeable to the palates of " society as now con- 
stituted." 



2. Fleshy Fruits. — These may be ^'hus arranged : 

r 



Drupaceous, or 
Stone Fruits. -( 
Drupes. 



Apple, or I 
Pomaceous { 
Fruits. 



r 



Baccate, or 
Berried Fruits. 



r 

Orange, or 
Aurantiaceous j 
Fruits. I 



Solanaceous 
Fruits. 



Peach, 

Nectarine, 

Apricot, 

Plum, 

Cherry, 

Olive, 

Date. 

Apple, 

Pear, 

Quince, 

Aku, 

Medlar. 

Currant, 

Gooseberry, 

Whortleberry, 

Barbei'ry, 

Buifalo Berry, 

Cranberry, 

Elderberry, 

Grape. 

Orange, 

Lemon, 

Lime, 

Citron, 

Shaddock, 

Pomegranate 

Tomato, 
Ega; Plant. 



f Cucumber, 
Pepones, Gourds, I Mush-melon, 
Curcubitaceous <^ Water-melon, 



Fruits. 



Sorosis. 



.^terio. 



Foreign Fruits 
not Classified. 



Pumpkin, 
^ Squash. 



Syconus. — Fig. 



Mulberry, 
Pine-apple. 

Strawberry, 
Raspberry, 
i Blackberry, 
Blueberry, 
. Brambleberry, 

f Breadfruit, 

Durion, 

Guava, 

Manna, 

Litchi, 

Jujube, 

Juvia, 

Papau, 

Avocador Pear 

Anchovy Pear, 

Mango, 

Banana, 

Plaintain, 
^^ Mangosta* 



60 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



Peaches and Peach Orchards — Freestones — Clingstones — Shortening-in. 

Drupes. — The Peach {^Amygdals persica) is a native of 
Persia. The tree is of rapid growth but short-lived. It often 
Dears fruit the third year, and in some instances the second 
year, from the seed. The most extensive peach orchards in 
this country are found in New Jersey, Delaware, and Mary- 
land, from which the New York and Eastern markets are prin- 
cipally supplied. In New England it is an uncertain fruit, 
^- ^ although some 

fine specimens 
have been rais- 
ed as far north 
as the State of 
Maine. The best 
peaches have a 
firm flesh, thin 
skin, deep bright 
color toward the 
sun, with a yel- 
lowish-green op- 
posite. They are 
divided mtofree- 
stones and cling- 
stones. The for- 
THB PEAOH. mer, in which 

the flesh easily separates from the stone, are 
regarded as generally the best flavored. 
The method of pruning peach trees, called 
( ;t> shortening-in (fig. 34), procures not only a 

j j\ beautiful tree, but early fruit and abundant 

, , _ ..' foliage. 

The young leaves of the peach are often 
used in cookery as a flavoring ingredient. 
The varieties of the fruit are almost innu- 
merable 5 two or three hundred have been enumerated in the 
catalogues of horticultural societies. 




Fig. 84. 



Mi 



eHOETENINQ vs. 



Aliments, ok JbooDS Peopee, 



61 



Nectarine — Varieties of Plums — Prunes — The Apricot. 




The Nectarine is a variety of the peach, hardly differing in 
appearance except in being smooth-skinned instead of downy. 
Both fruits are sometimes seen growing on the same tree, and 
each fruit is often produced from the seeds of the other. 

The Plum [Primus domestica) ^'g- ^• 

is a native of Asia, America, and 
the south of Europe. A great va- 
riety of domestic plum fruits have 
been cultivated from them. The 
OriP^-gage (fig. 35) is considered 
as the standard of excellence. The j 
Magnum Bonum is the largest kind,' 
and much employed for preserv- 
ing. The Damson was brought 
into Italy 114 years B. C. from 
J-/amascus. oeeen-gagb plum. 

The plum tree is of a low-spreading form Fi 

(fig. 36), rapid growth, and moderate dura- 
tion. It requires but little pruning, save cut- 
ting away useless and decaying limbs. The 
most profitable crop will be produced by 
planting 360 to the acre, or | of a rod 
apart. 

Dried plums are called prunes. Table 
prunes ai'e prepared from the larger and 
sweeter varieties. The smaller and more acid, when dried, 
are called medicinal prunes. 

The red or yellow plum is indigenous in this country, from 
Canada to Mexico. A variety called the Chickasaw plum is 
a native of the country west of the Mississippi, and is exten- 
sively cultivated in Arkansas and the south-western States. 

The Apricot {^Prunus armeniaca) is a species of plum, and, 
like all of the plum tribe, orignated from the wild sloe, a com- 
mon hedge shrub. It seems to be intermediate between the 
peach and plum, the fruit resembling the peach externally, 




THE DOMESTIC PLUM. 



fto 



Hydeopatiiic Cook-Book. 




OOimOK GHESBT. 



Fig. 38. 



Yarieties of the Cherry — Advantages of its CuUivation — ^The Olive. 

while the stone is lilie that of the plum. In this country it 
flourishes best in the Middle States. About a dozen varieties 
are raised in the United States. Apricots are abundant, in 
the wild state, in China and Japan, and in the hills adjacent to 
the Ganges. 

The Cherry {Cerasus duracina) is a native of most tern- 
Fig. 37. perate countries. More than two hundred 
varieties of trees are enumerated, from the 
small choke-cherry shrub, to the vast black- 
cherry forest tree. The common cherry 
tree (^Cerasus vulgaris), fig. 37. is of a mode- 
rate size and spreading form. Some varie- 
ties of the tree are very ornamental. Al- 
most all kinds of cherry shrubs and trees 
bear a pleasant and wholesome fruit. The 
most valuable varieties are easily propagated 
by budding and grafting. In our markets, 
the cultivated berries are found from the last 
of May to about the middle of July ; and 
are usually retailed at six to twelve cents a 
pound. Fig. 38 is an outline of one of the 
best varieties of the fruit, called Ohio Beauty. 
My friend, Mr. E. Cable, of Cleveland, Ohio, 
who has given great attention to the cultiva- 
tion of this and many other fruits, assures 
me the cherry can be made one of the most 
profitable, as it is one of the most delicious, 
of our native fruits. 

The Olive ( Olivia europcea) was " sacred 
The tree is indigenous in Syria, Greece, and 
and its name has many interesting his- 
Wild olives, it is said, still exist on the 
" Mount of Olives," near Jerusalem. The cultivated olive 
(fig. 39) grows most abundantly in Spain and the south of 
France, but the fruit does not ripen well farther north. The 




OHIO BEAUTY. 

to Minerva." 

the north of Africa 

torical associations. 



Aliments, oe Foods Proper. 



63 




Salad or Sweet Oil— Preserved Olives — The Date — The Apple. 

fruit is rather bitterish. The pulp is replete with a bland oil, 
called also salad or siveet oil, for the Fig. 89. 

production of which the olive is ex- 
tensively cultivated. In Britain, Italy, 
Spain, Portugal, and the Grecian isl- 
ands, it is much employed as a culi- 
nary article in place of butter, and it 
is certainly a more wholesome article, 
either as a seasoning or food. Pre- 
served or pickled olives are greatly 
admired by many persons as a " di- 
gester," but, like all other pickled °"^ ^"^''°° '^ '^^"• 
commodities, are fruitful sources of indigestion. 

The Date [Phcenix dacti/lifera) forms a principal article of 
food for the inhabitants of many parts of Egypt, Arabia, and 
Persia. The fruit is extremely sweet, and very nutritious. 
The Arabs reduce dried dates to a kind of meal of which date- 
bread is made, and on which alone they subsist during long 
journeys. A single date tree, which is a species of palm, will 
bear from one to three hundred pounds of fruit in a single 
season. The young shoots are edible, resembling asparagus. 
The best dates are large, softish, but little wrinkled, of a red- 
dish-yellow color outside, with a whitish membrane between 
the flesh and stone. 



PoMACEOU!? Fruits. — The Apple 
{^Pyrus malus) is one of our most 
hardy, and probably the most valu- 
able of all our fruits. The tree is 
usually of a low-spreading form (fig. 
40), though sometimes growing to a 
very large size. It has been known 
to bear fruit when over 200 years 
old. All the varieties of our luxuri- 
ous apple fruit originated frrm the 



Fis;. 40. 




THE APPLE TRBK. 



64: 



Hydropathic Cook- Book, 



Varieties of the Apple — Abuse of the Apple Crop — Cultivation. 

wild crab-tree of Europe. No fruit is more easily cultivated 
or preserved, and none flourishes over so large a part of the 
earth's surface. A great many choice varieties grow readily 
in all the temperate regions, and some kinds are produced in 
rather cold latitudes. 

In Homer's time the apple was regarded as one of the 
precious fruits. The vai'ieties that may be produced by cul- 
tivation are innumerable. A catalogue of the London Hor- 
ticultm-al Society, published in 1831, enumerated 1,500 sorts 
of apples ; and Mr. Cole, author of the " American Fruit- 
Book," says that more than 2,000 varieties have been produced 
in the State of Maine. 

I can imagine no branch of agriculture, " domestic econ- 
omy," or even " political science," more useful to mankind 
than that of raising good apples. This kind of farming would 
tend wonderfully to elevate the human race above its swine- 
Fig. 41. eating propensi- 
ties. At present 
a large portion of 
the apple crop of 
the world is per- 
verted to hog-feed- 
ing and cider-mak- 
ing — neither ani- 
mal nor liquor, 
when fed or made, 
being fit for food 
or drink. 

A little atten- 
tion to pruning, 
budding, grafting, 
and transplanting 
would enable our 
American farmers 




Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 65 

Summer Rose — Early Strawberry — Fall Pippin — Mother Apple. 

and fruiterers to supply our markets, profitably for themselves, 
with an abundance of sweet, mellow, luscious apples, so rich 
and savory, indeed, that but little else than a piece of good 
bread would enable the veriest epicure to make a luxurious 
meal. 

In fig. 41 the dotted lines represent the general shape of 
the Summer Rose, a fine variety of the garden apple, and the 
black lines the Early Strawberry, a pleasant early apple which 
originated near this city. 

The Fall Pijjjnn is the leading apple during the fall months 
in this market ; and various sorts or qualities of greem7igs, 
some of which are very fine table apples to be eaten uncooked, 
are most abundant in winter. 

Fig. 48. 



Description. — Eather large ; roundish, sliirlit- 
ly ovate; very little yellow, marblfd andslriiied 
with red, mostly covered with dork red, very 
dark and bright in the sun, the red is interspersed 
with russety dots ; stem three quarters of an inch 
long, rather slender, in a broad, tolerably deep 
cavity; calyx small, nearl/ closed, in a narrow, 
tolerably deep, irregular basin; flesh yeIlowi>h, 
very tender, almost melting, mild, rich, highly 
aromatic, with a delightful mingling of slightly 
Bub-acid and saccharine qualities ; aroma resem- 
bling Chickwinter-green. Last of Oct. to Jan. 
Perfectly hardy in Maine ; vigorous grower, a 
good and constant bearer. In quality it has no 
superior, and very few equals. 



THE MOTHER APPLE. 

Fig. 42 is an outline of the Mother apple, which is but a 
fair sample of what all apples might be by proper cultivation. 



Hydropathic Cook-Book, 




The Pear — Extraordinary Trees — Pears grafted on the Quince. 

The Pear [Pyrus communis), is a hardy tree, even more so 
Pig- 43. than the apple, and will grow on almost 

any soil. It has been known to live sev- 
eral hundred years. The Endicott pear 
tree, imported by Gov. Endicott in 
1628, is still flourishing in Danvers, 
Mass. Near Vincennes, 111., is a tree 
ten feet in circumference, which in 1834 
yielded 184 bushels. Its proper culti- 
vation appears to be very imperfectly 
understood, hence its duration is vcfl-} 
uncertain 
TEDS PEAE TREE. In its original state the fruit was au- 

stere and almost innutritions ; but cultivation has developed 
its delicious and nutritive properties. Almost all kinds of 
pears grow well, grafted on the quince. Many varieties have 
been tried, and some have attained excellence. 

Dietetic writers in general, and medical men in particular, 
seem to regard the whole list of pomaceous fruits, if indeed 
they do not so regard all fruits, as doubtful, if not dangerous, 
articles of nourishment. The following conflicting, not to say 
ridiculous, notions of eminent medical authors are in point : 

Pereira says, " Apples and pears are very agreeable fruits, 
but they are not in general regarded as easy of digestion." 
Professor Lee says, " Although apples are very generally used 
in the raw state, yet we have much doubt as to their being 
easily digested, especially by the dyspeptic." Dr. Forsyth 
remarks, " Pears are of a more flatulent tendency than plums, 
peaches, or apricots, especially the hard winter pears, which 
are eaten at a time when the stomach requires stimulating 
rather than cooling food." And Dr. Bell observes, "The 
apple is inimical to the dyspeptic, the rheumatic, the gouty, 
and those troubled with renal and cutaneous diseases." Per 
contra. Dr. Beaumont's experiments prove that apples, even 
when raw, are readily digestible, 



Aliments, or Foods P-kopee. 



67 



Varieties of the Pear— Manner of Selecting— The Quince. 



Among the best early or summer pears are the Madeleine, 
Summer Virgalieu (fig. ^'S- 44. 

44), Sugar To2), Zoar 
Seedling, Bloodgood, and 
Rostierer. Among the 
best fall pears may be 
named the Muscadine, 
Stevens' Genesee, Bran- 
dywine, Washington, 
Flemish Beauty ^Buffum, 
Swans Orange, and the 
White Doyenne or Vir- 
galouse — called also the 
Virgalieu of New York, 
and the Butter-pear of 
Pennsylvania. Among 
the winter varieties the 
Princess St. Germain, 
Lewis, Columbia, and 
Easter Bergamot are 
much esteemed. 

Those who select any 
species of pomaceous 
fruit in our markets 
must judge of its qual- 
ity more by their own 
senses than its name, as 
each may be improved 
or deteriorated by the 
season, soil, manure, or 
tion. 

The Quince {Pyrus sydonia, fig. 45) is a small shrub usu- 
ally growing to eight or ten feet in height. It grows wild on 
the banks of the Danube, and is a native of Austria. In this 
country it flourishes only in the Middle and Western States, 




other 



EARLY, OR SITMIIEE PEARS. 

circumstances of its cultiva- 



68 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



Varieties of the Quince — Its Cultivation — The Aku, or Aker. 

The fruit is highly fragrant, but very acid ; hence it is prin- 



Fig. 45. 




THE QCTNOB TEKE. 



cipally employed to flavor other fruits. 
The chief varieties are the apple-shaped, 
pear-shaped^ Portugal, and musk. Fig. 
46 is an outline of the former. 

The quince tree will grow well in a 
variety of soils, as in most cool situa- 
tions near streams, a clayey loam, dry- 
gravelly ridges, etc. The tree should be 
" shortened-in." 

Fig. 46. 



Description. — ^The Apple, Api>le-shiiped, or Orange 
Quince is largo ; shape, similar to the apple, having the 
broadest part nearest tlie stera-eml, tlie rererse of the pear; 
fine golden color; flesh firm, rather tender when cooked 
of excellent but not high flavor. Leaves oval. This vari- 
ety is two or three weeks earlier than the pear-shaped. It 
■will not keep so well, is not so high flavored, but it cooks 
more tender. 



TBE APPLE, APPLE-SHAPED, OE OKANGE QUINCE. 

The Aku, or Aker {BUghia sapida), is a native of Guinea, 
and but little known in this country. The fruit (fig. 47) is a 
pome about the size of a goose's egg, of a mild acid flavor, 
and very nutritive. It would probably grow well among the 




Aliments, ob Foods Peopek. 69 

Tr ansplantation of Fruits— Physiological Law — The Medlar. 

oranges of our Southern p.. ^^_ 

States. 

The botanical name 
of this fruit is compli- 
mentary to Capt. Bligh, 
who, in 1793, carried it 
from its native country 
to Jamaica, where it has 
continued to thrive ever 
since. And this histori- 
cal circumstance affords 
a hint by which all our ™= ^^• 

agriculturists or fruiticulturists might profit the world im- 
mensely. I have no doubt that transplanting and "cross- 
breeding" among the fruits of the earth would tend to im- 
provement, as the application of the same law of organization 
does in the animal kingdom. And notwithstanding I admit 
that, as a general rule, the grains, roots, fruits, and vegetables 
which can be best cultivated in a particular climate or locality 
constitute the best food for the people of that climate or lo- 
cality, still every species of vegetation may be naturalized in 
places where it is not indigenous. 

Our farmers are far from being ignorant of the method of 
improving the breed of domestic animals ; and there is nothing 
more required to improve the quality of all alimentary sub- 
stances than an adaptation of the same principles to the pecu- 
liar circumstances and habitudes of plants and vegetables. 
And this subject has an incalculable importance in the con- 
sideration, that just in proportion as we improve the quality 
of Ihe vegetable substances on which human beings subsist, 
just to that extent shall we " improve the breed" of the high- 
est being in the scale of animated nature. 

The Medlar [Mesjjhilus germanica) is a native of the south of 
Europe, and in nutritive qualities and value resembles a small 
apple. ITie fruit seldom ripens until after it is gathered. 



70 



Hydkopathic Cook-Book. 



Berried Fruits — Varieties of Currants — The Gooseberry. 

Berried Fkuits. — The Currant {Mibes rubrum) is a small 
Fig. 48, hardy shrub, very productive, 

easily cultivated, and flourishes 
on almost every kind of soil. 
The fruit is sharply acid, yet 
very pleasant, and if stewed 
may be eaten either green or 
ripe. There are several small 
and a number of large varieties 
of the berry ; but the latter are 
superseding the former in our 
markets. 

One of the best kinds of this 
fruit is a new variety from Eng- 
land, called May''s Victoria (fig. 
48). The red Dutch, the white 
Dutch, the black Naples, and 
Knight's sweet red are among the 
other varieties seen in our mar- 
kets. The red and white currants 
differ but very little, except that 
the latter is rather less acid. The 
Missouri currant of the Rocky 
Mountains, and the red flower- 
ing currant of the western part 
of America are fine ornamental 
flowering shrubs. 

The Black Currant [Eibes 
nigrum) is a distuict species. 
It grows abundantly in Russia 
and northern Europe, and, as is 
the case with all kinds of cur- 
rants and gooseberries, is often 
employed in making champagne and other wines. 

The Gooseberry {Eibes grossuhria) is a native of cold and 




mat's TIOTOKIA. 



Aliments, oe Foods Pkopee. 



71 



Varieties of Gooseberries — Varieties of the "Whortleberry. 

temperate climates. It may be easily cultivated on almost 
any soil. New varieties may be Fig. g, 

raised from the seed, and the most 
desirable kinds may be propagated 
by grafting. 

The best varieties are known as 
HoughtorCs Seedling (fig. 49) Crown 
Bob (fig. 50), Whitesmith (fig. 51), 
Red Warrington^ Roaring Lion^ 
Green Walnut, etc. 

Numerous vai'ieties of this fruit 
are known, over three hundred hav- uopghton's seedling. 

ing been enumerated in some English catalogues. They are, 

Fig. 50. Fig. 51. 






:eow.n' iu)!i. 



WHITESMITH. 



however, generally distinguished into the red, yelloiv, green, 
and white, according to the color they assume when ripe. 
The difl'erent sorts ripen from June till September. 

The Whortleberry ( Vaccinium myrtillus), also called Bilberry, 
the Black Wiortleberry ( Vaccinium resinosum), and the Lorn 
Blueberry {^Vaccinium tenelhan), are varieties of the same 
shrub. The first named grows in moist lands from two to six 
feet high, and the last mentioned grows in beds or bunches 
on dry hills, from six to twelve inches high. The fruit of both 



72 



Htdkopathic Cook-Book, 



The Barberry — Buffalo Berry, or Shepherdia — The Cranberry. 

kinds is very sweet and pleasant, and easily improved by cul- 
Fig. 63. tivation. Our market is largely supplied from 

Long Island, and nearly all the uncultivated 
fields within a circuit of one or two hundred 
miles yield this fruit abundantly. The average 
price of the berries in New York is about three 
dollars per bushel. The dried berries are ex- 
cellent for flavoring puddings, cakes, etc. 

The Barberry [Berber is) (fig. 52), is a small 

prickly shrub, four to ten feet high, growing spontaneously 




BAEBEEBT TKEB. 



Fig. 58. 




BAEBEEEY FKUIT. 



Fig. 54. 




BHTFALO BERKY. 



on hard gravelly soils, and in cool, moist 
situations. The flowers are small and 
very beautiful. The fruit (fig. 53) is 
very acid and astringent, and has thus far 
been used chiefly in preserves, pickles, 
tarts, etc. Proper cultivation would no 
doubt soon develop a more pleasant qual 
ity of fruit. 

The bark and wood are employed in 
coloring yellow. The beauty of its flow- 
er, and its rapid growth and durability, 
render it useful for making hedges. 

The Buffalo berry, or Shepherdia (fig. 
54), is also an ornamental shrub, whose 
small, round, acid fruit is regarded as ex. 
cellent for preserves. Like many other 
sour fruits, it needs the renovating influ- 
ences of intelligent fruit-culture. 

The Cranberry [Oxycoccus macrocarpus) 
(fig. 55), grows wild in marshes, mead- 
ows, swamps, etc., but by being cultivat- 
ed on high land it has produced larger 
and better fruit. The berries are very 
sour, but are highly valued for tarts, jel- 
lies, and sauces. They are also excellent 



Aliments, or Foods Peopek, 



73 




CKANBBRBY. 



Elderberries — Juniper Berries — The Grape ; its Uses and Perversions. 

if well stewed and sweetened. Good cranberries usually 
retail in this city from ten Fig. 55 

to fifteen cents per quart. 

Elderberries are some- 
times eaten, thougfl they 
are not so pleasant as most 
other berries. Dried elder- 
berries are sometimes sold 
in our groceries for dried 
■whortleberries, which they 
resemble considerably, yet 
ire of much less size. The 
flowers, leaves, and inner 
bark of the elder tree, and 
fermented juice of the fruit, 
have enjoyed a high reputa- 
tion for medicinal virtues ; 
but in those days Water-cures were not in fashion. 

Juniper fiern'es— the berries of the common juniper tree — 
{Juniperus communes) which grows wild on the hills in many 
countries, are a sweetish-aromatic and somewhat bitterish 
fruit ; and are eaten sometimes in the form of conserves. A 
volatile oil obtained from the cells of the shell of the nut has 
been used to flavor Holland gin, " Scheidani Schnapps," and 
other " medicinal beverages," 

The Grape ( Vitis vinifera) ranks beside the apple at the 
head of the fruit kingdom. It flourishes well from the twenty- 
first to about the fifteenth degree of north latitude. It was 
known to most of the natives of antiquity, and several varie- 
ties are found in the wild state in this country. Though the 
fruit of the vine has been perverted to the purposes of wine- 
making, by which the nations have become drunken, no fruit 
is capable of affording a greater amount of lu.xurious and 
wholesome food. In Syria, bunches of grapes have been 
known to weigh forty pounds. A single vine at Hampton Court, 

4 



74 



Htdeopathic Cook-Book, 



Productiveness of the Grape— Its Varieties— Orange Fruits. 

England, many years ago, produced, on the average, a ton of 
grapes annually. A patch of land of a few feet square, with 
very little trouble or expense, would supply a family with an 
abundance of this luscious fruit. 

The most extensive graperies in this country are near Cin- 
cinnati, in the vicinity of Philadelphia, and at Croton Point, 
near New York. 

The vines may be trained in a variety 
of ways to suit the fancy or to accommo- 
date the locality, as the cane or renewal 
system, the fan system, the spur system, 
etc. Figure 56 is a representation of the 
latter method. 

A variety of foreign grapes have been 
tried in this country, but do j.j_ 57^ 
not succeed as well as the 
native. Of these the Isa- 
bella and Catawba are prin- 
cipally cultivated. The Isa- 
bella (fig. 57) is the sweetest, 
and is generally preferred 
in this market. The Ca- 
tawba (fig. 58) is preferred 
at the West. 

The raisins of our shops 
Muscatels and bloons are sun- 





6PUE TRAINING. 



ISABELLA. 



Fig. 58. 



are dried grapes. 

dried. The blach currant of our groceries is 

the small or Corinthian raisin. 

AuRANTiACEous Fruits. — The Orange tree 
{^Citrus') is an example of extraordinary produc- 
tiveness, a single tree having been known to 
produce twenty-five thousand in a single season. The fruit 
in our market is distinguished into the Sweet orange {citrus 
axirantium), and the Seville orange [ritrus vulgaris). The lat- 




CATAWBA. 



Aliments, or Foods Proper, 



Y5 



The Lemon — The Citron — The Shaddock — The Lime — Lime-juice. 

ter are rough and sour, and often called hitter oranges. As 
oranges are the product of warm climates, the dietetical value 
of the fruit with us depends very much on its degree of ma- 
turity when gathered. They will not keep long unless taken 
from the trees before ripening ; but when they possess a mild, 
rich, moderately acid flavor, they are not objectionable, 
though far inferior to many of our domestic fruits. 

The Lemon (^Citrus limomcni) is chiefly valued for its anti- 
scorbutic properties, which, indeed, it possesses in common 
with all other fresh fruits and vegetables. It contains more 
acid than the orange, and is seldom employed except as a 
mere flavoring ingredient of culinary preparations. 

The Citron ( Citrus medico) is another variety of the same 
tribe of plants. The fruit is seldom used except for making 
acidulous drink ; the rind is often candied with sugar for a 
sweetmeat. 

The Shaddock [Citrus decumana) (fig. 59) belongs also to 
Fig. 59. the orange family. In China, where it is 

indigenous, it is said to be a sweet and 
agreeable fruit ; but in other countries, 
where its cultivation has been neglected, it 
has become soured 
and degenerated. 

The Lime {Cit- 
rus acida) is an- 
other variety of the 
same genus. The 
fruit (fig. 60) is 
much smaller than the lemon. It is 
very acid, and the lime-juice, and most 
of the citric acid of commerce, are man- 
ufactured from it. But as vegetarian 
stomachs have no demand for strong 
acids, as mere relishes or seasonings, it must for them be re 
garded as among the things more curious than useful. 




Fig. 60. 



THB SnADDOCK. 




THE LlilE. 



76 



Hydropathic Cook-Book:, 




The Pomegranate — Tomato, or Love Apple — Okra, or Gambo — The Cucumber. 

^'8- 61. The Pomegranate [Pumica granO' 

turn) (fig. 61) is a native of Europe 
and Asia. The fruit is about the size 
of a large peach, very beautiful, pleas- 
antly acid or sweet. In the Bible it is 
included among the fruits of Pales- 
tine, with the vine, fig, olive, and other 
" pleasant fruits." The tree grows about 
twenty feet high, and is highly orna- 
mental, being covered with beautiful 
BBANcn AND muiT. scarlct aud very fragrant blossoms. 
Of the To7naio, or Love-ap2>lG (Solanum lycopersium), little 
is said in works on fruit and diet, for the reason that it is 
usually regarded as a mere condiment or pickling ingredient. 
Botanically, it is allied to the potato ; and under proper culti- 
vation, its fruit, which is pleasantly acid, has become one of 
our best summer luxuries. When perfectly ripe it is excel- 
lent without either cooking or seasoning ; when but partially 
ripe it should be stewed for an hour or more. The earliest 
tomatoes in our market often sell at fifty cents per quart. 

The Okra, called at the South Gambo, may be mentioned 
here. It is sometimes seen in our Northern gardens, but is not 
sufficiently appreciated. It is a very pleasant, mucilaginous 
aliment, containing a moderate proportion of starch, which, no 
doubt, would increase by proper cultivation. It is an excel- 
lent addition to stewed tomato, and also a good ingredient 
in tomato soup. This fruit is now raised in large quantities 
on the farms of the North American Phalanx, Monmouth 
County, New Jersey. It may be easily cut into slices, dried, 
and kept the year round. 



Pepones. — The Cucumber [Cuciwiis satin/s) is a valuable 
garden fruit, though usually rendered pernicious by the salt, 
pepper, vinegar, and oil with which it is seasoned. To 
healthy appetences n(_)ne of these extraneous seasonings are 



Aliments, ok Foods Peopee. 77 

Mebns — Pumpkins — Squashes— Cultivation of Squashes and Cucumbers. 

desirable ; hence to well-trained vegetarian stomachs it is both 
palatable and wholesome, however it may be with dyspeptics. 

The Melon [Cucumis melo) is the generic term for all the 
varieties of musk and watermelo7is. The Muskmelon is a de- 
licious fruit, and very easily digested by most stomachs. 
Some varieties, as the ixutmeg, are exceedingly sweet and con- 
siderably nutritive. The cantalotipe is a famed variety in 
Italy. A warm sandy soil produces the richest fruits. 

Watermelons are somewhat less nutritive, and, to weak stom- 
achs, more liable to occasion griping or colic. Some of the 
curcubitaceous fruits should not be eaten until fully ripe. 
The cucumber, however, appears to be innocuous in all stages 
of its growth. 

Of Pumpkins we have few varieties ; but a good quality 
of any fruit is better than a great variety. The most com- 
mon in our markets are the common red and the West Indian. 
Both are excellent for sauce or pies. The dried fruit may be 
kept good the year round. The dried fruit is pulverized by 
the Shakers, and sold under the name of pumpkin powder. 

Squashes are found in our markets in much greater variety 
than pumpkins, and many kinds are equal to the best pump- 
kins for pies. The cream^ marrow, and Lima are among the 
most delicious kinds for either sauce or pies. Squashes are 
generally classed as Summer or Winter varieties. The latter 
sometimes grow to an enormous size. I have seen them of 
over 200 pounds weight. 

In choosing squashes or pumpkins, those of the firmest, 
heaviest texture are to be preferred. 

Squashes and cucumbers may be raised in almost any yard 
or vacant place, in the following manner : Take a large barrel 
or hogshead, saw it in two in the middle, and bury each half 
in the ground, even with the top. Then take a small keg and 
bore a small hole in the bottom. Place the keg in the center 
of the barrel, the top even with the ground, and fill in the 
barrel around the keg with rich earth, suitable for the grow th 



78 



HTDEOrATHIC CoOK-BoOK 



The Fig Tree — Varieties of its Fruit — Preparation of Figs. 

of cucumbers. Plant your seed midway between the edges 
of the barrel and the keg, and make a kind of arbor a foot or 
two high for the vines to run on. When the ground becomes 
dry, pour water in the keg, in the evening — it will pass out 
of the keg into the barrel, and raise up to the roots of the 
vines, and keep them moist and green. Cucumbers cultivated 
this way will grow to a great size, -is they are made independ- 
ent both of drought and wet weather. In wet weather the 
barrel can be covered, and in dry the ground can be kept 
moist by pouring water in the keg. 



Syconus. — The Fig tree {Ficus carica) is a native of Asia, 
and formed a principal article of food among the inhabitants 
Fig. 62. of ancient Syria and Greece. It 

is remarkably sweet, very nutri- 
tious, and, like the cereal grains, 
will flourish in a wide range of 
latitude. It will grow well in 
our Northern States if housed 
during the cold season. In the 
Southern States some excellent 
crops are raised. 

There are several excellent va 
rieties of the fruit sold in our 
market. The best are from Tur 
key, Italy, and Spain. Smyrna 
figs are deservedly of high re- 
pute. The black fig of the Azores 
(fig. 62) is a fine and very pro- 
BLACK FIG OF TUE AZORES. ductivB kind. Two crops in a 
year have been raised under glass in this country. In South 
Carolina the Alicant fig bears early and abundantly. 

Figs are generally prepared by dipping the ripe fruit in a 
scalding hot ley made of the ashes of the fig tree, then dried 
in ovens or in the sun, and packed close in boxes or chests. 




Aliments, ok Foods Peopee, 



79 



Varieties of Mulberry — The Pineapple — The Strawberry — Ita Market "Value. 

SoROSis. — The Mulberry tree (Moms) is a native of Asia, 
and has been chiefly valued as food for the silli- Fig. 63. 
worms. The fruit is pleasantly acid, and was highly 
esteemed by the Eomans. It is easily cultivated, 
and the fruit, which is among the most delicious and 
wholesome of berries, is readily propagated by 
seeds, cuttings, layers, and roots. 

There are three well-kn-^wn varieties — the white 
(morus alba), employed mostly in feeding silk- 
worms ; the black {raoru.. tiigra), whose fruit (fig. 
63) is large and excellent; and the red (morus 
rubra), the fruit of which is small, yet very pleasant. 

The Pineapple (Bromelia ananus) — regarded by many as 
the most delicious of fruits — is a native of South America, the 
West Indies, and the hotter parts of Asia and Africa. Like 
most of the pleasantly-acid fruits, it contains both malic and 
citric acids in nearly equal proportions. This fruit may be 
raised in all temperate latitudes by the employment of arti- 
ficial heat. In the New York market a fair quality of the 
pineapple is found at almost all seasons of the year. 




BLACK MUL- 
BERRY. 



Fig. &i. 



Et^rio. — The Straivberry (Frugaria vesica) is one of our 
favorite summer fruits. It is peculiar to the temperate regions 
of the Eastern and Western hemispheres. Excellent strawber- 
ries grow wild on new lands in many parts 
of the United States ; and many varieties 
are cultivated near our large cities. Prob- 
ably Cincinnati is the greatest strawberry 
market in the world. A good crop yields 
$300 to $500 the acre ; and in some sea- 
sons more than $1,000 have been realized 
for the crop of a single acre. Among the 
best varieties are the Early Virginia (fig. 
64), IIovcy''s Seedling, Nectarine^ Duke of 




EARLY TIROINIA 



80 



II Y D K O P A T II I C C O O K - JB O O K . 



Varieties of Strawberries — Effects of Culture on their Blossoms. 

Kent, Hudson, Sivainstone' s Seedling, Alpine Bush, Burr's New 



Fig. 65. 



Pi7ie, Mulberry, etc. 

Hovey's Seedling (fig. 
65) is one of the most 
productive varieties. One 
man can pick and hull 
one hundred quart boxes 
in a day. 

In the wild state the 
strawberry has perfect 
flowers, like the apple, 
pear, etc. But owing to 
high culture and new seed- 
lings, many varieties now 
vary from this primeval 
form. Some are mostly 
staminate, and will in no 
case produce large crops ; others are pistillate, and alone will 
yield but little, and that imperfect fruit ; but with a perfect, 
or staminate, kind to fertilize them, they will yield larger crops 
than can be obtained even from perfect kinds. 

Fig. 66. 

-5 




hovey's seedling. 




Perfect. 



Staminate. 

STRAWBERRY ULOSSOMS. 



Pistillate. 



In the left blossom of fig. 66, the center (a) is a little cone, 
similar to a small green strawberry, and is composed of pis- 
tils, and the little stems around it {h) represent the stamens, 
with anthers at top, which contain the fertilizing dust. In the 
middle blossom the center is small, as the pistils are imper- 
fect, while the stamens are fully developed. In the right 
blossom , the pistils or center organs are full and large, and 



Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 81 

Anomalous Condition of the Strawberry — Kaspberry— Thimbleberry. 

no stameas are perceptible. The flower-leaves, or petals, are 
smalle:- than in the other conditions. 

The strawberry is not wholly staminate nor pistillate, like 
those plants that were originally and are invariably only one 
or the other; but the staminate kinds have rudiments of pis- 
tils, and the pistillate kinds have stamens imperfectly devel- 
oped. Hence partial crops on such. Cultivators are aware 
that plants produce their fruit on pistillate flowers, and that 
the pollen of the staminate is necessary to fertilize them. 

"To Longworth belongs the honor of first publishing to the 
world this anomalous condition of the strawberry, and the 
mode of turning it to good account ; and his system is now 
almost universally adopted. There will be living monuments 
to his memory while the rains fall, the sun shines, and science, 
equally genial, beams on the human mind,'' — American Fruit- 
Booh, by S. W, Cole. 

The Raq^herry [Riibus idocvs) derives ^'S- 6T 

its name from the rough spines with 
which the bush is covered. There are 
several sub-varieties of the black and reel 
berries. The Amei'ican black ras2)herry 
is sometimes called thimbleberry . It is 
very hardy, easily cultivated, and yields 
excellent fruit. One *f the best kinds 
of the red is the Red Antwerp (fig. 67). 
Fig. 6S. Among the black kinds, 

, «, > or rather blue-black, the bed aktwkbp. 

V I ' ■ ' J Fra.nconia (fig. 68) is deservedly esteemed. 
%, Other choice fruits are the Ohio Ever-bear- 

ing, Yellow Antwerp, Fastolff, and Orange. 
The American red raspberry is one of the 
' sweetest and most delicate of berries. 
\: ,/ The Blackberry (Rubus fruticosus) grows 

^'^^y'^''^ abundantly on most new lands in this coun- 
FKANcoNiA. try and is easily cultivated in gardens. We 

4* 




82 



HYDROPATniC CoOK-BoOK. 



Fig. 69, 



Blackberries — Dewberry — Bread Fruit — Diirion — Guaya. 

have several varieties of this fruit, among which are the white 
blackberry and the black blackberry ! No berry in the world 
is richei in flavor than some kinds of the 
blacliberry when fully ripe. Fig. 69 is 
a cut of the fruit o/" the High Bush (Rubus 
villosus). 

The Dewberry [Hubus coesius) is a kind 
of blackberry growing on a low running 
bush. In this country the dewberry is 
often called brambleberry ; but in England 
the latter term is used as synonymous 
wath that of blackberry. 




HIGH BXJSn. 



Unclassified Fruits. — The Bread f)-nit 
{^Artocarpus) is a native of the northeast- 
ern parts of Asia, and the islands of the Pacific. There are 
two kinds of bread fruit. The first, called Jaca, though not 
Fig. TO. very palatable, grows to a large 

size, often weighing 30 pounds. 
The bread fruit proper (fig. 70) 
is eight or nine inches long, 
yellowish-green, and covered 
with hexagonal warts. The 
pulp is partly farinaceous. Its 
taste is between that of wheat 
and roasted chestnuts. The 
tree is extremely productive, 
two or three of them yielding food enough for one person's 
sustenance. The fruit has been cultivated in the West Indies, 
but in this country it will not flourish, except in the hot-house. 
The Durion {Durio zibithinus) is an Eastern fruit, growing 
on a lofty tree, in warm latitudes, sometimes of the size of a 
man's head. Its pulpy part, which is of a creamy subsistence, 
is very nutritive. 

Of the Guava {Pridium), some varieties are natives of 




TllE BREAD FKtnT. 



Aliments, oe Foods Pkopee. 83 

The Mamma — Litclii— Jujube— Papau — Avocado— Anchovy — Mango. 

Asia, and others of America. The tvhite guava is abundant 
in the West Indies. It is a pleasant, pulpy, juicy fruit, about 
the size of a hen's egg. 

The Mamma {^Maminen Americana') is also a native of the 
West Indies. The tree is large and tall, and the fruit resem- 
bles a russet apple in size and shape, and the apricot in flavor. 

The Litclii {Dimoca^rpus litclii) is a Chinese fruit, about as 
large as the orange, and of a sweet, agreeable flavor. 

The Jujube [Siryphus) is a favorite fruit of Spain and Italy. 
In China it is abundant. The French apothecaries make it 
into a paste or lozenge, which is sold at the shops. 

The Juvia [Berihollaiia excelsa) is the fruit which incloses 
the triangular grains called Brazil nuts. I am not aware that 
it has ever been brought to this country. 

The Papau [Carica pajmya) grows on a tree which has no 
branches, in the East and West Indies. It is about the size 
of an ordinary melon, and contains an acid milk, which con- 
tains a large proportion of fibrin, like that of animal flesh. 

The Avocado pear (Sausus persica), sometimes called the 
Alligator, is a West Indian fruit, about the size of the apple. 
Its pulp is very delicious, and considered superior to the 
peach. 

The Anchovg pear ( Grins cauliflora) is also a West Indian 
fruit. In taste it resembles the mango. 

The Mango [Mangifera indica) is one of the most esteemed 
of the tropical fruits. It has a thin skin and an interior pulp, 
which is slightly acidulous and gratefully aromatic. 

The trees on which this fruit grows rise to forty or fifty feet 
in height. In India many varieties are cultivated. The fruit 
will not keep long after rijDening, but is then exquisitely fine- 
flavored and very nutritious. 

The Banana [Musa sajnentum) abounds over the torrid zone 
of America, and is a pi'incipal food for millions of the human 
fiimily. It is said to produce more .nutriment from the same 
space of ground than any other plant of the vegetable king 



84 



Hydeopathic Cook-Book. 



Banana — Its ProductiTeness— Plantain — Mangostan — Turnip. 

dom. One thousand square feet will produce four thousand 
pounds of fruit ; which is said to be forty-four times greater 
than potatoes can yield, and one hundred and thirty-three times 
greater than can be obtained from the same space of wheat. 

The fruit is six to ten inches long, and something like the 
•cucumber in form. Excellent bananas are found in the New 
York market during several months of the year. 



Fig. 71. 




•nre PLANTAIN. 

Pis- T2. 




The Plantain [3fusa paradisica) 
is similar to the banana, but even 
more luscious. It is a native of 
Asia and Africa; but is cultivated 
in the West Indies. The fruit (fig. 
71), which grows in clusters, is 
about the size of the cucumber. 
\Vhen ripe it turns yellow, and its 
taste is sweet and mealy, like the 
richest muskmelon. 

The 3fanffosfan {^Garcinia man- 
gostana) (fig. 72) is about the size 
and shape of the orange, and one 
of the most delicious of fruits. Its 
flavor mingles that of the pineapple and 
strawberry. The tree is very beautiful, 
and indigenous in Sumatra, Java, and 
adjacent islands. 

§ 3. ESCULEXT EOOTS. 

The principal aliments of this division 
are the turnip, carrot, parsnep, beet, 
potato, artichoke, yam, radish, and skir 
ret. 



MANGOSTAN. 



The Turnip. — Of the Turn'q) [Brassica rapa), which in 
botany is called a cruciferous or siliquose plant, there are 
several varieties of edible roots; and, as with all roots whiclj 



Aliments, oe Foods Peopek. 



85 



Navet, or Nivvon — Varieties of Turnips — The Carrot. 



are employed as food, their gustatory properties and nutritive 
value vary with the soil and mode of cultivation. The 
French navet, or naven, though resembling the carrot in shape, 
is a variety of turnip. The turnip is a favorite vegetable all 
over Europe and America, and in Eussia it is eaten as a fruit. 



Fig. 73 is a representation of 
the plant above the ground. The 
pods are filled with very small 
seeds, an ounce counting fourteen 
to fifteen thousand. The green 
leaves make excellent spinach. 

The Swedish Turnip is one of 
the largest in size, but coarse and 
insipid. The Russia, or yellow, 
and the common tohite are both 
excellent. Some of the very best 
in our market are raised at South- 
old, L. I. In some parts of New 
Jersey a fine quality is produced. 
The ruta haga is a variety of veiy 
large size, but chiefly employed 
in the feeding of cattle. The 
Maltese Golden Tumi}) is much 
raised, and of excellent quality. 

Thk Carrot, — Of the Carrot 
[Daitcus carota) many varieties 
have been produced by climate 
and culture. The leaves (fig. 74) 
are of a light, feathery vellum, and 
in the time of James the First 
were used by the ladies to adorn 
their head-dresses, as a substitute 
for the plumage of birds. Prob- 
ably the idea — '' Nature, when un- 




F LOWBBS AND PODS OP THE TTTBICIP. 

Fig. 74. 




VMBEL OF THE OABBOT. 



86 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Orange Carrot— The Parsnep — The Beet — Mangel "Wurzel— The Potato. 

adorned, adorned the most," was not then in fashion. The 
carrot is very sweet, containing about ninety-five parts of 
sugar to one thousand. It is also more nutritive than the 
turnip. The orange carrot is often raised by the farmers for 
the purpose of coloring butter. 

The Parsnep. — The Parsnep (Pastinaca sativa) is, like the 
carrot and turnip, biennial. There are many kinds of the 
root cultivated, all of which are apparently modifications of 
one variety. The root is even sweeter and more nutritious 
than the carrot, and to most persons much more palatable. 
It is very liable to be deteriorated by improper or too much 
manuring, a fact, however, which applies to all of our succu- 
lent roots and garden vegetables. The best parsneps are of 
a brittle texture, very tender, and of a sweet and slightly 
aromatic flavor, entirely devoid of bitterness. 

The Beet. — Of the beet-root two varieties are commonly 
cultivated — the red [Beta vulgaris) and the white (Beta cicla). 
Of the red variety, one is round like the turnip, and the other 
is long like the carrot. I have seen specimens of the latter 
at the Fairs of the American Institute eighteen inches long, 
and four or five inches in diameter. In France, a sub-variety, 
which is striated internally, is used in the manufacture of 
sugar. 

The white beet has very small, slender roots, and large suc- 
culent leaves ; it is employed only as a spinach, for which it 
is excellent. The mangel wurzel is a coarser kind of beet, 
cultivated for the feeding of cattle and milch cows. 

Beet-root is considered more nutritive than any other escu- 
lent root, except the potato ; and contains about twelve per 
cent, of saccharine matter. 

The Potato. — The Potato [Dulcamara tuberosum) is of 
more nutritive value than all other foods vi'hich grow under 



Aliments, or Foods Pkopee. 87 

Varieties of Potatoes — Preparations of Potatoes — Potato Disease. 

the surface of the earth. Indigenous to South America, it 
was not generally cultivated in England till the middle of the 
eighteenth century. It is found abundantly in the wild state 
in Chili and Peru ; and the ground-nut, which is found in all 
the wilderness parts of North America, is supposed, by many 
to be the original from whence all our fine varieties of pota- 
toes are derived by cultivation. 

According to chemical analyses, the best potatoes are al- 
most, if not quite, as nutritive, pound for pound, as the best 
flesh-meat; and certainly twenty or thirty pounds of them 
can be raised at the expense that will fatten a single pound of 
beef or pork. 

The best early potato in the New York market is the Mer- 
cer; and for winter use the Kidney is to be preferred. Still, 
much depends on the locality of their growth, as well as on 
the kind of root cultivated. Of each of these kinds there are 
several sub-varieties, as the Early Shane, Early Champion, 
Monarch, Red Round Kidney, Lady^s Finger, Blue Nose, 
Round White Kidney, Castor, Bread Fruit, etc. All potatoes 
are more valuable as they are more mealy or farinaceous, and 
inferior as they are watery and waxy. 

Potato-flour, or the dry starch powder of the root, has been 
sold in England under the name of Indian Corn Starch, Bright's 
Nutritious Farina, English Arroiv-Root, etc. 

The Sweet Potato [Convolvulus batata) is also a tuberose 
root, common in warm countries, and very extensively culti- 
vated in the Carolinas, Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey, and 
some other States. The potatoes of Shakspeare, and the 
Spanish potatoes and batatas of other authors, are the root 
we generally designate as the sweet potato. 

The potato has lately been found to be wonderfully anti- 
scorbutic ; a property which all fresh and wholesome aliments 
possess in the same degree. 

A disease, or degeneration of this tuber, called potato rot, 
has prevailed extensively for several years past, and appre- 



88 Hydeopathic Cook-Book. 

Renovation of the Potato Crop — Artichoke — Yam — Eadish. 

hensions are seriously entertained that the crop will be ulti- 
mately destroyed. Various speculations have been published 
relative to the causes and remedies ; but they are in the main 
extremely fanciful. I am fully of opinion that the vegetable 
kingdom degenerates very much after the manner of the ani- 
mal kingdom, and that the principal, if not the exclusive, cause 
of the trouble with the potato is the planting of poor or im- 
perfect tubers. Nor can I see any rational way of effecting a 
cure, except by reproducing the potato in its pristine vigor 
from the balls or seeds. Three years will suffice in this way 
to renovate the crop completely. I am informed by Mr. 
D. A. Buckeley, of Stone Hill Farm, Williamstown, Mass., 
than whom no man raises finer potatoes, that this is the method 
he has pursued for a long time, with invariable success. 

The Artichoke. — There are two plants of this name — the 
Jerusalem {^Helicansus tuherosus)^ and the Garden (^Cynara 
scolynms) ; although, botanically, they are in no way allied 
to each other. The former is a native of Brazil, but has been 
cultivated in most parts of America and Europe. It resem- 
bles the potato more nearly than it does any other tuber, but 
is not so mealy nor nutritious. The garden artichoke is but 
little used, though no doubt cultivation would do as much for 
it as it has done for the potato. 

The Yam. — The Yam [Dioscorea sativa) grows in wild lux- 
uriance in the island of Ceylon and on the coast of Malabar. 
It is also extensively cultivated in the West Indies and in 
Africa. The root is farinaceous, like the potato, more nutri- 
tious, and is eaten, roasted or boiled, as a substitute for bread. 
Tlie root is palmated, and divided somewhat like the fingers 
of the hand. A vai-iety called the winged yam is often three 
feet long and weighs thirty pounds. 

The Radish. — The Radish {Baphanus sativus) is used 



Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 89 

The Skirrt't — Buds and Y^«ng Shoots — Asparagus. 

more as a condiment than food. Some varieties of the root, 
however, are very bland, and to well-used stomachs not un- 
heal thful. The strong acrid kinds are injurious to any stomach. 
There are many sub-varieties of the radish, but they are gen- 
erally divided into the turnip-shaped and the spindle-shaped 
roots. The color of each varies from white to every shade 
of red, and from that to dark purple. 

The Skirret. — The Skirret [Siam sasarum) is a native of 
China, and but little known in this country. The root is 
composed of several tap roots about the size of the little finger. 
It is very white, sweet, and pleasant. 

§ 4. Buds and YouNa Shoots. 

This section comprehends the bulbous-rooted plants — the 
roots being in reality subterranean buds. Onions, Leelcs, 
Garlic, Chives, Shallots, and the Rosambole of DenmarJc, are 
of this class. They are very pungent, owing to an acrid vola- 
tile oil, and to weak stomachs exceedingly objectionable. We 
have, indeed, so many better things to eat, that it were well 
if all persons would let them alone. None but torpid nerves 
and half-palsied organs of taste ever desire such acrimonious 
aliments. 

Asparagus, though agreeing botanically, is very different 
dietetically, being one of the most wholesome and nutritive 
of the spinaceous plants. The term asparagus, however, 
comprehends the common garden vegetable of that nam-e 
{Asparagus officinalis), sometimes also called Sioarrow-grass ; 
the Sea-kale {Crambe maritima'), growing naturally in many 
places along the sea-shore ; the artichoke proper ( Cynara sco- 
lymus), also a maritime plant in its wild state ; the Cardoon 
{Cynara cardunculus), a native of Candia, and similar to the 
artichoke; i\ie Rampion {Campanula sapuncxdus), a native of 
England, though not much cultivated; the Prussian Aspar- 
agus { Ornithogalum pyrenacum), an inferior kind of asparagus 



90 HYDEOPAXniC CooK-BooK. 

Cabbages — Savoy — Greens — Cauliflower — Broccoli. 

raised in some parts of Europe ; and the Bladder Campion 
[Silene iiijlata), which is seldom seen in this country. 

The common asparagus, or sparrow-grass, is as delicious as 
any vegetable of the kind ought to be, and as wholesome as 
any can be, hence our horticulturists would do well to let this 
variety supersede all others of the species. 

§ 5. Spinaceous Plants. 

Under this head I shall include the three orders of Tiede- 
man, viz, : Leaves, Leaf-stalks, and Flowers ; Receptacles 
and Bracts ; and Stems. 

The section comprehends the Cabbage tribe, including the 
Savor/, Greens, Cauliflower, Broccoli, and also most of those 
plants whose tops and leaves are employed under the general 
term of spinach. 

Cabbages. — The whole family of cabbages [Brassicacea) 
are the cultivated progeny of a small wild plant — the sea- 
coleicort [Brassica oleracea). In general they are wholesome 
and very nutritive. The loose-headed cabbages are called 
Bosecoles, or Kales, of which there are several varieties ; as 
the Scotch kale, German hale, or curlies, Russian kale, etc. 
The close-headed are those whose leaves are formed into a 
round head, as the common lohite and red cabbages ; or into a 
long head, as the Savoy. The best known varieties of this 
subdivision are the drum-head and the sugar-loaf. The red 
cabbage is an excellent test for acids and alkalies. The former 
turns its blue purple color red, and the latter green. 

Close-headed cabbages are called savoys. They are of a 
tender texture, very sweet, and not injured by frost. 

Brussels sprouts are a sub-variety of savoys. Small green 
heads, like cabbages in miniature, shoot out from the junction 
of the leaves and sprouts, which are very delicate and nutri 
tious. 

The Caulifiower and Broccoli form a head of both the stalks 



Aliments, oe Foods Peopee. 91 

Sourbrout — Spinach — Varieties of Spinaceous Plants. 

and leaves. They are not so nutritive as the common white 
and red cabbages, nor so palatable without seasonings. 

Sourkrout^ or sauerkraut, is a preparation of fermented cab- 
bage, and although highly lauded by the medical profession, 
and bj dietetical writers as medicinal and wholesome, it has 
nothing intrinsic to recommend it. 

Spinach. — Those plants whose leaves and leaf-stalks are 
nutritive and wholesome, and require no other preparation 
than simply boiling in water, are very numerous. In common 
use are young cabbages, potato-tops, dandelion-tops, mustard 
leaves, parsley, coivsUjiS, deer-iveed, beet-tops, etc. Some of 
the spinaceous plants — mustard, for example — are acrid and 
pungent, but lose these objectionable properties on being 
boiled. A bitter or an astringent principle resides in some of 
them, as the dandelion and the cowslip, which impairs their 
flavor, though not existing in sufficient degree to effect mate- 
rially their dietetic qualities. 

A variety of plants coming under the present head are em- 
ployed as salads, the principal of which are Lettuce {Lactucca 
sativa). Garden Cress {Lapidium sativium). Water Cress {^Nas- 
turtium officinale). Rape {Brassica rapus), Burnet {Poterium 
sanguisorba), Celery, or Smallage (Apium graveolens). Lamb 
Lettuce, or Corn Salad {Felix olitoria). Endive {Chicorium 
endivia), Ckickory, Succory, or Wild Endive { Chicorium inty- 
bus), etc. Most of thera are too strong and acrimonious to 
be healthful ; and those who avoid strong, rank animal foods, 
and eschew alcohol and tobacco, can hardly desire them. The 
lettuce tribe are injurious on account of containing the nar- 
cotic juice from which opium is made. 

Most of the plants employed as spinach belong to the 
botanical family Ghenopodece ; they have very small greenish 
f owers, formed into variously-shaped heads, resembling balls, 
bunches, spikes, etc. 

Fig. 75 represents the commonly cultivated varieties of the 



92 



Hydropathic Cook-Book, 



Spinach in the New York Market— The New Zealand Spinach. 

Spinacia Oleracea. The garden sub-varieties which we find in 
Fig. 75. the New York mar- 

kets have very soft 
and succulent leaves, 
with small and very 
lender stems. 

The Hew Zealand 
Spinach ( Tetragonia 
expansa) (fig. 76) is 
said to be the only 
native plant of the 
isles of Australia 
which has been trans- 
planted to the kitch- 
en-gardens of Eu- 
rope. It produces an 
abundance of large' 
tender leaves, which 

in that climate grow luxuriantly during the hottest weather- 
Fig. 76. 





NBW ZBAI.A1{I> SPINACH. 



Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 93 

Sorrel — Dock — Varieties of Ehubard — Seasoning Herbs. 

The leaves of the Chenopodium [Chenopodiimi quinoa), to 
which the New Zealand variety has some resemblance, are 
esteemed both in this country and Europe. The seeds of the 
yellow variety are used as a substitute for millet. 

The Sorrel [Rume.v acetosa) is sometimes eaten as spinach, 
though it is too acid to be agreeable to most palates. Stewed 
and sweetened, it makes very pleasant pies. Wood sorrel 
{Oxalis acetosella) yields oxalic acid comWied with potash. 
It is obtained in the dry state by simple evaporation, and is 
then called salt of sorrel. It has also been called the essential 
salt of lemons, and used as a substitute for lemons in making 
acidulous beverages. This salt is useful in removing spots of 
ink or iron-molds from linen. 

Some varieties of Dock {Rumen) are sometimes eaten, 
though rather sour and harsh. The Patience Dock {Rumen, 
patietita) is a hardy perennial plant, called by the Germans 
winter spinach. 

The Rhubarb (Rheum) is employed both as a spinach and 
for making tarts and pies. It is strongly though pleasantly 
acid. The varieties usually cultivated in our gardens are the 
Rheum rhaphonicum and Rheum hybridum. This plant also 
contains some proportion of oxalic acid. A variety called 
Rheum undulatum is said to be of the finest flavor. The 
Rheum palmatum (fig. 75, see page 94) is the plant whose 
root is used in medicine. The foot-stalks of its radical leaves 
are much smaller than those of the other kinds ; hence it is 
not cultivated for mere culinary purposes. 

Seasoning Herbs. — There are many sweet or savory herbs 
ased as seasonings or condimerts which may be properly 
mentioned here, though I do not consider them either dietetical 
or useful. They may be medicinal ; but in the hydropathic 
system all such medicine is considerably worse than useless. 
The principal articles of this class are Sage, Thyme, the Mints, 
Dill, Fennel, Tansy, Marjoram, Tarrago, Nasturtium, or //i- 



94k Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Medicinal Ehubard — Ferns — Lichens— Seaweeds — Mushrooms. 

dian Cress, Chervil, Savory, Rosemary, Lavender, Basil, Balm, 
Angelica, Anise, Cummin, Caraway, Coriander, Samphire, etc. 

Fig. 77. 




UmiBAPL.D — EHEI PAIJiIATVM. 



§ 6. Flowerless Plants. 
The Ferns, Lichens, Seaiveeds, and Mushrooms which are 



Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 95 

Iceland Moss — Koran — Eeindeer Moss — Irish Moss — ^Toadstools. 

eaten, or eatable, may be conveniently considered under this 
title. I do not regard the whole tribe as worth the ink spilt 
in describing them, only as showing the vast variety of eating 
material there is in the world, and the resources to which one 
may resort in extremity. Natural appetences never require 
nor desire such food, and the pampered and abnormal taste 
can not be satisfied were the earth and sea and air to yield 
ten thousand times as many animals and vegetables foi«-it to 
prey and gorge upon. 

Those lichens which are employed as food contain a starchy 
matter called feculoid^ or lichenin, usually associated with a 
bitter principle, which may be removed by soaking in a weak 
alkaline solution. Of this character are several species of 
Gyrophora, used by the hunters of the Arctic regions and the 
North American Indians. Iceland Moss [Cetraria islandica) 
is extensively used in England, and to some extent in this 
country. The Koran, or Mamako, is employed in New Zea- 
land. The Cetraria nivalis grows abundantly in the mount- 
ainous regions of this country, and the Reindeer Moss {Ceno- 
myce rangifernia) is a pi'incipal food of the deer of our forests. 

Several species of Algce, or Seatoeed, are employed as food. 
Their chief alimentary quality is mucilage. Of this class are 
Pearl Moss ( Chondrus crispiis), called also Carriyeen, or Irish 
Moss, and the Laver, sold in the London shops. Some of 
these substances contain also sugar and starch. The Ceylon, 
or Jafner Moss, is a seaweed of India. These articles are much 
used in making jellies, blanc-mange, etc., for invalids. 

Of the j^unyi, or Mushrooms, many varieties are eaten, and 
some are considered very " delicate." They possess very lit- 
tle nutriment, and are very apt to be poisonous. Those vari- 
eties called toadstools generally possess noxious qualities. 
The Garden Miishrooms [Ayaricus campestris, and Agaricus 
auruntiacus) are the principal kinds cultivated for the table. 

In fig. 78, a, a, a, represent the Var. Campestris, and b the 
Var. Auruntiacus. In some places the same varieties are called 



96 



Hydkopathic Cook-Book. 



Garden Mushrooms — Catsup — Black and White Truffles — Agarlcus. 

field mushrooms. All of them are more used as ragouts and 
flavoring agents than for their intrinsic dietetical properties. 

Fig. T8. 




OOMMON, OB GARDEN MTTSHEOOMS. 

Catsup, or catchup, is made of the juice of mushrooms mixed 
with salt and spices. 

The Triiffle ^''^■'^^ 

{Tuber cibarium) 
(fig. 79) grows in 
clusters, several 
inches below the 
surface of the 
ground. Dogs 
have been trained 
to hunt for truf- 
fles, which they 
discover by their scent. 

The Agaricus muscarius possesses nervine and narcotic 
properties, and is employed by the Russians, Kamtschatdales, 
and Korians to induce intoxication. Other domestic varieties 




BLACK AND WHITE TKtTFFLK. 



Aliments, or Foods Pkoper, 97 

Animal Foods — Mammals — Birds — Reptiles — Fishes. 

are known under the names of boletus, morel, pepper dulse, 
tangle, etc. 

Animal Foods. — The alimentary principles derived from 
the animal kingdom are the proteinaceous, gelatinous, oleagin- 
ous, and the saccharine matter of milk ; in other words, fibrin, 
albumen, casein, gelatin, and sugar. They are yielded by 
flesh, blood, cartilages, ligaments, cellular and nervous tissue, 
viscera, milk, and eggs. All the species of animals — beasts, 
birds, fishes, reptiles, and insects — which human ingenuity 
has been able to grasp, has been "appropriated" as nourish- 
ment, and there is scarcely any part of any animal carcass 
which has not been more or less employed as human food. 

In the most civilized countries the domesticated animals 
afford the principal flesh-meat ; though the practice of eating 
the oxen which " have plowed for us," the cows which have 
"given us milk," the lamb which we have petted, and the sheep 
which " has warmed us with its fleece," seems more becoming 
the savage than the civilized state of society. 

Varieties of Animal Food. — The Mammals — neat cattle, 
sheep, and hogs — afford the chief supply of this kind of food in 
this country. To this class also belong the deer, rabbit, hare, elk^ 
moose, buffalo, and bear, which are employed to some extent in 
many countries. The Kalmuck Tartars, and some other tribes 
of the human family, eat their horses, dogs, cats, rats, and mice. 

Of Birds, the common fowl, turkey, goose, duch, partridge, 
woodcock, -and pigeon are principally eaten. A variety of 
other game birds are found at the refectories. 

Among the Eeptiles used as food are the various kinds of 
turtles, and several species of frogs. The flesh of vipers was 
once recommended by regular physicians as a restorative diet 
ipr invalids ! 

Our waters afford an innumerable variety of fishes, nearly 
all of which are devoured by the human animal. 

5 



98 Htdkopathic Cook-Book. 

Shell-fish — Food derived from Herbivora, Omnivora, and Carnlvora. 

The Shell-fish employed as food are the lobster, crawfish^ 
crab, praivn, shrimp, oyster, mussel, cockle, tvhelk, scallop, lim, 
pit, periwinkle, etc. 

Qualities of Animal Foods. — Unquestionably the very 
best, or, if any prefer the term, the least injurious, animal 
food is that derived from herbivorous animals, as beef, mutton^ 
etc. Those animals which feed on vegetables exclusively 
will 'certainly supply a purer aliment than those which prey 
on other animals. Oinnivoroiis animals, which eat indiscrim- 
inately vegetables or other animals, are inferior, as food, to 
the purely herbivorous, and the carnivorous, which eat nothing 
but other animals, are inferior still. Thus the hog, whose 
filthy carcass is converted into a mass of disease by the fat- 
tening process, and whose flesh and adipose accumulations, 
under the names of pork, bacon, and lard, are filling all Chris- 
tendom with scrofula, erysipelas, and foul humors, is even less 
pernicious to the nutritive functions than is the flesh and blood 
of the dog, panther, lion, tiger, hyena, vulture, etc. 

It is true that most of the cold-blooded animals, as various 
kinds of fishes, though mainly carnivorous, are not as deprav- 
ing aliment as is the flesh of warm-blooded or land animals, 
who eat carnivorously. But this is owing to their cooler tem- 
perament. Yet sea-food of all kinds is less nutritive and less 
wholesome than the flesh of herbivorous or graminivorous 
animals. 

" But the quality of food derived from herbivorous animals 
may be greatly varied by circumstances. Very young or 
very old animals are less healthful than young, nearly full- 
grown, and middle-aged. Animals which have been exces- 
sively fattened, or stall-fed, and those which have been hand- 
worked, are deteriorated as food ; and animals that have been 
' slop-fed' with liquid preparations, the refuse matters of the 
kitchen, or the filthy excrements of distilleries, are very un 
clean and unwholesome." — Hydropathic Encyclopedia. 



Aliments, or Foods Pe:pee. 99 

Lean Flesh — Necessity for its Mastication — Epicures. 

And when we come to the matter of converting the differ- 
ent parts and structures of animals into the organs and tissues 
of our own bodies — making them " bone of our boixe and 
flesh of our flesh" — there are many good reasons for choosing. 
The lean fleshy or muscular fiber, is the very best aliment any 
animal can aflford; and this is also most wholesome when 
derived from animals neither much flxttened nor emaciated. 

" But some allowance must be made for the masticatory 
ability of human teeth. Flesh-meat requires thorough mas- 
tication. Human beings have not the tearing teeth of the 
tiger and the wolf, nor the cutting motion of the jaw which 
belongs to the carnivora. Moreover, the teeth, jaws, and 
gums of most people who live in the ordinary way, are pre- 
ternaturally sensitive and tender ; and in addition to all this, 
a large portion of people, even young people, in civilized 
society, wear artificial teeth. They can not, therefore, well 
masticate tough meat, as is often demonstrated in the cases 
of choking in the attempt to swallow half-chewed flesh. For 
this reason the animal had better be in good condition, and 
only the most tender fibers selected as food. 

"Epicures generally have the flesh they procure at market 
kept until it becomes tender from age ; but such tenderness 
is the condition of incipient putrefaction, and although the 
article may be very easily disposed of by the teeth, and very 
quickly dissolved in the stomach, it can never be well digested, 
nor can it ever be converted into pui'e blood and sound tissues. 
It is advantageous to break up the fibers of tough meat by 
thoroughly pounding before cooking." — Hydropathic Encyclo- 
pedia. 

In all animal matter the process of decomposition or putre- 
faction commences the moment that life is extinct ; and 
although the evidences of such putrefaction may not be offen- 
sively evident to our senses of taste and smell for several hours 
or days, the fact alone establishes the principle, that the sooner 
all dead animal matter is eaten after the life-principle has 



L. of C 



100 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Slaughtering Animals — Medico-Dietetical Writers — Dr. Dunglison. 

departed the better. The only way it can be kept unchanged 
for any considerable length of time, is by being frozen imme- 
diately after being killed. 

The quality of flesh-meat is also affected by the manner in 
which the animal is slaughtered. All flesh contains more 
or less blood ; and a disproportionate quantity of venous 
or impure blood. The blood not only contains the natural 
elements of food, but the waste, dead, and effete matters which, 
having served their purpose in the organism, are to be expelled 
from the body, and such accidental impol-ities as may have 
obtained admission into the body ; hence the more bloody any 
kind of animal food is, the more unclean and putrescent. 

Medico-dietetical writers are continually perpetrating the 
flattest contradictions, and most singularly absurd blunders on 
this subject ; and I regard the medical profession, taken in the 
aggregate, as the most ignorant class in community on the whole 
subject of diet ; not that they have not sense and reason like 
other men ; but that they have been miseducated — led away 
from tiuth by false theories, and thus are farther from it, more 
ignorant in all practical senses, than one who has no knowledge 
save the " light of common sense." 

To illustrate : Dr. Dunglison, in a late work {Human Health)^ 
in speaking of the Roman custom of killing animals by run- 
ning a I'ed-hot spit through the body, says : " This mode of 
slaughtering was replete with objections, if regarded in an ali- 
mentary point of view. The flesh of animals thus killed is 
dark colored, owing to the retention of blood in the vessels, 
and hence it becomes speedily putrid.^^ And, again, says the 
doctor : " When an animal is killed accidentally, without 
bleeding, its flesh is not unwholesome, although it may not be 
palatable, in consequence of the blood remaining in the vessels." 
So, if Dr. Dunglison's logic is sound, the wholesome or un- 
wholesome character of the flesh of an animal killed without 
bleeding depends entirely on the fact whether the killing was 
by accident or design ! 



Aliments, ok Foods Peopek. 101 

Composition of Flesh — Nutritive Value of Different Parts of Animals. 

The Jewish custom of soaking meat half an hour in water, 
and then letting it lie an hour in salt before cooking, was for 
the purpose of further cleansing it of its blood ; and the Mo- 
saic regulations concerning the use of flesh generally, were far 
more philosophical than are the doctrines taught by the rnedical 
profession in this nineteenth century on the same subject. 

The proximate composition of muscle, or flesh, as given by 
Brands and Schlossberger, shows that the very best animal 
food is only about equal to the potato in nutritive value, and 
hardly one third as nutritious as rice, wheat, and other grains -. 

innT>oi.ta -oToio, Albumen or r'^iot;.. Nutritive 

100 Parts. Water. ^.■^^^.^_ Gelatin. ;^^^^^^ 

Beef 74 20 6 26 

Veal 75 19 6 25 

Mutton 71 22 7 29 

Pork 76 19 5 24 

Chicken 73 20 7 27 

Cod 73 14 7 21 

Haddock 82 13 5 18 

Sole 79 15 6 21 

The comparative healthfulness of other parts of animals can 
be readily determined by the principles already explained. The 
oil or fat, next to the blood is the least alimentary substance." 
The kidney, when cooked, always exhales a urinous odor, and, 
like the liver, is an excrementitious viscus, and wholly unfit for 
food. Next, in the order of unfitness, are the brains, lungs, 
stomach, intestines, and skin. All of these structures and organs 
of different animals afford a variety of fashionable and dainty 
dishes, and all, like " bull-fights" in Spain, have their admirers 
among both sexes ; but we may as well keep the simple truth 
in view that, just as far as we depart from lean flesh in the 
selection of aliments from the animal kingdom, just so far does 
their value depreciate. 

" The dietetic character of animal food is also aflfected by the 
manner of cooking. It is to be preferred lightly or but moder 
ately cooked, provided a due degree of tenderness of fiber ia 



102 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Animal Food affected by Conking — IdenlUj' of Flesh and Blood. 

secured. In broiled steaks this may he accomplished by pound 
ing ; but large, thick, roasting pieces are apt to be tough, if 
not well cooked. Broiling, on all accounts, is the best method 
of cooking all flesh-meat. Boiliac/^ taking care to skim oiFany 
floating particles of oil, is bette than roasting ; and this is 
better than frying, which, is a method never to be recommended." 
— Hydropathic Encyclopedia, 

The absolute identity, in chemical elements, of pure flesh 
and pure blood is another argument that muscular flesh or lean 
meat is the best form of animal food. And as this pure blood 
and pure flesh are made entirely of vegetable material, this 
fact affords another evidence — in itself conclusive, unless it can 
rebutted — that the best aliment for man may be derived 
directly from the vegetable kingdom. The following are the 
results of analysis by Playfair and Boeckmaun : 

171 , ,-> T>i I T..„ ■!>„„? Boasted Roasted Eoastea 

Elements. Ox Blood. Dry Beef. ^^^^^ y^^^l ^^^^^ 

Carbon 51.95 51.83 52.590 52.52 52.60 

Hydrogen... 7.17 7.57 7.886 7.87 7.45 

Nitrogen.... 15.07 15.01 15.214 14.70 15.23 

Oxygen 21.39 21.37 i 

Ashes 4.42 4.23 J 24.310 24.91 24.72 

100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 

Next to the flesh of the herbivorous animals, in alimentary 
value, is the Jlesh of birds. But here, again, is ample room for 
discrimination. Pereira tells us that the hawk and owl are not 
eaten, "partly, perhaps, from prejudice, and partly because 
those which touch carrion acquire a cadaverous smell" — as 
though the stench of putrefaction were not of itself a sufficient 
reason. 

The White fleshed Birds. — Chicken, turkey, partridge, quail, 
etc. are nearly as nutritive and digestible as beef and mutton. 
Medical writers call their fle.sh " less stimulating," but the only- 
stimulation of either comes from its impurity, and in this re- 
spect /ot^t is generally worse than the best flesh. 



Aliments, or Foods Peopee. 103 

Flesh of Fowls— Fumet — Delicate Morsels— Enlarged Livers — Callipee. 

The Dark-fieshed Birds. — Grouse, robin^ snipe, woodcock, etc., 
are more greasy and savory to epicures, but less nutritive 
and less wholesome. Pereira says of the flesh of these birds : 
"It is richer in ozmazome, and when sufficiently kept, it ac- 
quires a peculiar odor called fumet, and an aromatic bitter 
taste, most sensible in the back. In this condition it is said 
to be ripe or high, and is much esteemed as a luxury." Pro- 
fessor Dunglison eulogizes this " fumet," which is as much the 
stench of putrefaction as is the "cadaverous smell" of carniv- 
orous birds, still more extravagantly. He says : " The solu- 
bility of game — grouse, etc., is amazingly increased, as well as 
the luxury of the repast by keeping until it has attained the 
requisite fumet, which indicates that incipient putrefaction is 
diminishing its cohesion." 

The "luxury of putrefying animal flesh" sounds strangely 
to those whose stomachs and appetences have been for years 
"cleansed from all flesh." " Carrion crows" might, perhaps, 
with no violation of the laws of a low order of life, enjoy such 
a repast. 

Geese, ducks, and other aquatic birds, are strong, oily, and 
hence unwholesome. The canvas-back, though considered a 
great luxury, is very greasy, rancid, and unhealthful. 

Fowls are usually fattened for the market by confining them 
in dark places, and cramming them with barley-meal, mutton 
suet, molasses, and milk, which usually ripens them in a fort- 
night, but renders the flesh half-putrid and exceedingly ob- 
noxious. 

Particular parts of certain bii'ds have long been celebrated 
as " delicate morsels" by the epicure and the gourmand ; as 
the brains of the ostrich and peacock, the tongues of the night- 
ingale and flamingo, the trail or intestine of the woodcock, the 
enlarged liver — fatty degeneration — of the goose. 

The flesh of turtles is usually prepared in the forms of steak 
and soup. The callipee, which is considered the most " delicate" 
part, is the upder part of the breast or belly. Sir Hans Sloane 



104 Hydkopathic Cook- Book. 

Fiah Aliment — Crustaceans — Mollusks — Insects — Eggs. 

remarks : " Persons who feed much on turtle sweat out a 
yellow serum, especially under the armpits." These reptiles 
are wholly unfit for human aliment. 

Fish aliment is, in a general sense, far inferior to flesh, 
though, for some reason I never could divine, many dietetic re- 
formers who refuse to eat flesh, and some physicians who pro- 
hibit its employment, eat and prescribe fish with unbounded 
license. But with those who ivill eat fish aliment there is a 
choice of fishes. As a general rule^ the least oily are the most 
wholesome. Of this kind are the cod, halibut, trout, tvhitejish, 
bass, blackjish, haddock, whiting, sole, and turhot. Among the 
objectionable and oily kinds are salmon, eels, herrings, pil- 
chards, sprats, mackerel, shad, etc. 

Of the crustacean sea-food, lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and 
prawns are the principal. They are exceedingly indigestible, 
and very productive of skin diseases. 

Of the mollusca, oysters, mussels, clams, scallops, cockles, and 
even snails are eaten. The oyster is the favorite among them ; 
but although not as indigestible as the Crustacea, they are all 
bad aliments. 

Of the insects employed as food by some portions of the 
human family, it is enough to name, as evidences of the deep 
depravity of human appetite, the grub-worm, spiders, locusts, 
grasshoppers, tohite ants, and caterpillars, all of which have been 
considered "wholesome" by many people, and pronounced 
" delicate" by many physicians. 

Eggs. — Physiologists are not very well agreed as to the 
nutritive value of the eggs of oviparous animals. They are 
moderately nutritious, and when eaten raw or rare boiled are 
easy of digestion. But their good qualities are rather negative 
than positive. When poached or fried they are among the 
worst things that can be taken into the stomach. Hard-boiled 
eggs are often pickled in vinegar and employed as a condi- 
ment, than which nothing can be more unphysiological in the 



Aliments, ok Focds Pkopeb. 105 

Milk — Cream — Skimmed Milk — Bracotte — Osmazome. 

way of aliment. Some writers have contended that eggs, hard- 
ened by boiling or frying, agree better with laboring people, 
and those who take active exercise, than in the soft or liquid 
state. But such persons commit the common blunder of mis. 
taking the momentary feelings of a morbid stomach for the 
physiological properties of alimentary substances. 

Milk. — As the article in the Encyclopedia on the dietetical 
nature of milk contains precisely what I wish to say now on 
the same subject, I can do no better than transcribe it : 

"The milk of the mammals, though an animal secretion, can 
hardly be called animal food, in strict language. It contains, 
on the average, nearly ninety per cent, of water, and about ten 
per cent, of solid matter, consisting of butter, casein, sugar, and 
various salts. The cream of cow's milk, according to Berzelius, 
consists of butter 4.5, casein or curd 3.5, whey 92.0=100.0. 
By agitation, as in churning, the globules of fatty matter unite, 
and form butter; the residue is called buttermilk ; it consists 
of casein, serum, or whey, and a very small quantity of butter. 
Skimmed milk very soon becomes acid and curdy. The ad- 
mixture of an acid or rennet (which is the infusion of the fourth, 
or true stomach of the calf) immediately coagulates it, sepa- 
rating the casein, or curd, from the whey. The addition of 
acetic acid will cause a still further separation of coagula, 
which has been called zieger, bracotte, etc. After the separa- 
tion of casein and zieger, the whey left yields lactic acid, salts, 
and some nitrogenous substances, one of which is supposed to 
be osmazome. Osmazome, however, does not appear to be a 
tangible reality, but a flavor or effluvia developed by the chemi- 
cal changes which take place in several animal substances 
during the process of cooking — heating, roasting, boiling, etc. 
Good milk is a homogeneous but not viscid liquid, not coagu- 
lable by heat. When examined by the microscope it appears 
to consist only of transparent spherical globules. Tlie cream 
yielded varies from five to twent}- per cent., as tested by the 

5* 



106 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Milk affected by the Food — Childreu Poisoned — Distillery Slops. 

lactometer^ which, by the vay, seems to be a very unsatisfac- 
tory instrument for the purpose. No secretion is so readily 
affected by the ingesta, or the general health of the animal 
producing it, as the milk. The taste, color, and odor of cow's 
milk are readily modified by the food. Children are in many 
ways, through the mother's milk; disordered, salivated, nar- 
cotized, catharticized, and often poisoned. 

"The organic instincts, true to the first principle of self-pres- 
ervation, determine the accidental impurities of the body to 
this channel as the most ready way of expelling them from the 
body. Nursing mothers have little idea how much disease, 
pain, and misery they inflict on their little ones, nor how fre- 
quently they commit hifanticlde, by taking irritating aliments 
and drinks, and injurious drugs into their own stomachs. If I 
could present this subject to them in all its force, and in all its 
bearings on their happiness, and on the well-being of the human 
race, as I hope to attempt in a future publication, I am certain 
there would be a sudden and very radical revolution in the way 
of dieting mothers and doctoring children. 

The milk produced by cows fed on distillery slops, whicli, 
to the disgrace of municipal authorities, rich men are permitted 
to sell to the poor in nearly all our large cities, is not only 
very innutritions, but absolutely poisonous. In New York, 
Brooklyn, and Williamsburgh several thousand cows are kept 
in close and horribly filthy stables, fed on warm slops, and 
other refuse matters of the distilleries, which rot their teeth, 
weaken their limbs, and render their whole bodies masses of 
disease ; and their mflk is furnished to our citizens as a prin- 
cipal article of diet for their children ! 

Although milk can not be considered a necessary or strictly 
natural food for mammals, except during the period of infency, 
when the teeth are undeveloped — and no animals of the class 
mammalia, save man, employ it otherwise — it is nevertheless, 
when pure, the best form of aliment out of the strict order of 
natural foods. It contains all the elements requisite for pro 



Aliments, ok Foods Propek. 107 

Butter — Sweet Cream- Fresli Curd — Cheese — An Adage. 

longed nutrition, and except in certain abnormal states of the 
digestive organs, its moderate employment is attended w'ithno 
inconvenience. 

"Some invalids can not enjoy, and some dyspeptics can not 
tolerate it ; but exceptional cases from morbid conditions are 
not rules for healthy persons. 

^^ Butter, as prepared for the table, is a different article die- 
tetically from its fatty particles as they exist in milk. The 
former must rank with all animal oils in being difficult of diges- 
tion, but slightly nutritive, and liable to generate rancid acids 
in the stomach. There is, however, a great difference between 
fresh-made and slightly salted butter, and that which is old 
and highly salted. Compared with the latter the former is 
almost innocuous. Melted and cooked butter is, wherever 
found, a very deleterious aliment. Sweet cream, from its solu- 
bility in water, and greater miscibility with the saliva, is far 
preferable to butter. Indeed, I am not aware that experienco 
assigns to it any nijurious or even unpleasant effect as an ali- 
ment. The fresh curd of milk is perfectly wholesome, and 
pot cheese, when of milk as soon as it becomes sour, and before 
it gets bitter, is also a harmless article. Green cheese is not 
very objectionable, but old, strong cheese is one of the mostj 
injurious and indigestible things in existence. It is also one of 
the most constipating articles to the bowels that can be found. 
It is a common fancy among medical men, and a common 
whim among the people, that old, strong, rank cheese, though 
itself very indigestible, stimulates the stomach to digest other 
things ; hence almost all the medico-dietetical works quote the 
old adage : 

" ' Cheese is a mity elf, 

Dig-sting all things but itself.' 

" There is more poetry than truth in the doggrel distich. Old 
cheese occasionally undergoes spontaneous decomposition, dur- 
ing which process acrid and poisonous elements are developed, 
as is frequently the case with bacon and sausages." 



108 IIydeopathic Cook-Book. 

Concentrated or Essence of Milk — Preparation in England. 

Concentrated Milk. — By mixing milk with a portion of 
sugar, it may be evaporated to one fourth its original bulk. 
Prepared in this way it is sold in this city under the name of 
Concentrated Milk. In England it is called Essence of Milk. 
The " Mechanics' Magazine" gives the details of the process by 
which it is prepared on a large scale : 

" Mr. Moore, an extensive farmer in Staffordshire, has, under 
a license from the patentee of the new process of concentrat- 
ing milk, fitted up an apparatus by which he manufactures 
annually the produce of about thirty cows. The milk, as it is 
brought from the dairy, is placed on a long, shallow copper pan, 
heated beneath by steam to a temperature of about 110*^ ; a 
proportion of sugar is mixed with the milk, which is kept in 
constant motion by persons who walk slowly round the pan, 
stirring its contents with a flat piece of wood. This is continued 
for about four hours, during which the milk is reduced to a 
fourth of its original bulk, the other three fourths having been 
carried off by evaporation. In this state of consistency it is 
put into small tin cases, the covers of which are then soldered 
on, and the cases and contents are then placed in a frame which 
is lowered into boiling water ; in this they remain a certain 
time, and after being taken out and duly labeled, the process 
is complete. The milk thus prepared keeps for a lengthened 
period. It supplies fresh milk every morning on board ship, 
»nd may be sent all over the world in this portable forir>." 



CHAPTER IV. 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS. 

Preservation of Gr-ain, Meal, Seed, etc. — All kinds of 
grains, nuts, and seeds should be perfect!}' dried and cleaned, 
and kept in a cool, well-ventilated place. Dried corn has been 
kept in good condition for more than eighty years. It is espe- 
cially important that flour and meal be kept in a clean, sweet 
room, exposed to no effluvia from vaults, cellars, or sinks, and 
not injured by smoky fireplaces and stoves. All kinds of flonr 
and meal ought also to be fresh ground ; for they will never 
long preserve, when broken, all the nutritive virtue of the seeds. 
Grinding the grain exposes its proximate elements to oxida- 
tion or fermentation, hence the invariable rule with all farina- 
ceous foods should be to have them ground as near the time of 
using as possible. It would be a vast advantage to the health 
of the community if hand-mills were kept in every family. 

Wheat-meal will mold or oxidate sooner than fine flour, on 
account of the mucilage contained in the bran ; and Indian 
meal is very liable to acquire an acid or musty property if 
long kept. Moths, too, are apt to infect it, especially if stored 
in a damp place. 

Walnuts, filberts, and chestnuts may be preserved a long 
time by packing them, when perfectly dry, in jars or boxes, 
with fine clean sand ; or they may be buried in the ground, in 
a pit lined with clean straw. 

Lima beans and green peas may be dried in the pure air or 
in a warm room, when young and tender, and thus kept for 
winter use. Green corn can be preserved by turning back the 
husk, all but the last thin layer, and then drying in a warm 
room or in the sun. It may also be parboiled in a bag, and 
then dried as above. 



110 



Hydkopathic Coo-k-Book. 



Preservation of Vegetables — Eefrigeratlon — Scalding — Drying. 



Preservation of Vegetables, — During the hot season 
various kinds of vegetables, as peas, beans, cucumbers, squash- 
es, etc., may be preserved for days in a rooin attached to an 
ice-house. The temperature, however, should not be so low 
as to freeze them. Various kinds of roots, stems, tubers, and 
leaves may be preserved by simply cutting them in thin slices 
and drying ; but as most of them will keep in the green state 
long enough in a cool, dry cellar, or buried in the ground be- 
low the freezing-point, it is hardly worth the trouble to dry 
them. Potatoes, turnips, carrots, parsneps, beets, cabbages, 
etc., will keep nearly the year round in either way. The 
stalks of rhubarb or the pie plant can be conveniently dried 
and kept for winter use. 

Artichokes, asparagus, carrots, cabbages, turnips, parsneps, 
potatoes, onions, celery, beets, and, indeed, all other vegetables, 
may be preserved by being scalded or parboiled, placed in 
bottles, then into the hot-water bath for an hour, and corked 
tight. 

Drying vegetables to that degree that they may be ground 
into flour, may be accomplished in the following manner, yet 
other similar methods will readily suggest themselves to any 
one who studies the subject. The roots are to be sliced and 
laid upon metal plates heated by steam. 

In fig. 80, a is a shallow vessel for holding the material to 

be dried ; 6 is a boiler of wa- 
ter heated by a chafing-dish; 
c, a lamp, the heat from which 
passes through the boiler in a 
tube ending in the chimney, d ; 
e, the pipe conveying the steam 
from the boiler to the bottom 
of the vessel, a; / is a waste- 
pipe for the condensed steam ; 
g, a pipe for the waste steam ; 




VEGETABLE DKYINO APPAKATtTS. 



k, a pipe for adding cold water to the boiler. 



Preservation of Foods. Ill 

Kules for Gathering Fruit — Preservation of the more Perishable Fruits. 

Preservation of Fruits. — In gathering fruits for winter 
use, great care should be taken not to bruise them nor bi-eak 
the skin, as the injured parts soon rot. Apples, pears, etc., 
intended to be kept as long as possible, should be care- 
fully picked from the trees, not bent nor shook off. They 
should also be gathered on a clear dry day. The more deli- 
cate kinds, as peaches, apricots, and nectarines, should not 
even be wiped, as this would rub off their bloom or down, 
and makes them decay more rapidly. 

Choice apples and pears may be kept very well, and often 
the year round, by wiping them gently dry, covering each 
with dry, soft paper, and laying them on shelves; or on 
shelves covered with paper without wrapping them. Pears 
and apples, if gathered a few days before perfectly ripe — 
not over six or eight — and packed carefully with dry moss, 
sand, bran, or in baskets lined with stout paper, will keep 
through the winter. 

Pineapples may be kept much longer than usual by twist- 
ing out the corners, which, when suffered to remain, absorb 
and exhaust the juice of the fruit. 

There is probably no better way of preserving oranges and 
lemons than by wrapping them singly in papers, and packing 
them in jars or in dry sand. 

The principal condition on which the preservation of the 
more perishable fruits depends, is the exclusion of atmospheric 
air. The more perfectly this is effected, the longer and better 
will the fruits be kept unchanged. And many fruits may be 
kept good for months, with a mere trifle of sugar, provided 
the air is nearly all excluded from the vessels which contain 
them, when otherwise they could not be kept without being 
•preserved in sugar, pound for pound. T have known straw- 
berries, whortleberries, peaches, pears, tomatoes, quinces, 
blackberries, etc., put up in this way, very nearly as well fla- 
vored and fresh in the middle of the winter as when first 
gathered in their season. 



112 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Drying Apparatus — Air-tight Bottles — ^Keeping Grapes. 

Mr. William R. Smith, of the interior of this State, has 
experimented pretty extensively in this method of preserving 
fruits, and has supplied our market with good fresh peaches, 
pears, tomatoes, quinces, etc., in mid-winter. 

The North American Phalanx Company are now construct- 
ing an admirably planned building for preserving fruits and 
vegetables in either their ripe or unripe state. The drying 
apparatus is a series of shallow trays, with open network bot- 
toms, supported above each other on sliding racks, making a 
double column of drying trays about thirty feet in height, 
all warmed to any requisite degree by the steam of a boiler 
in the basement. They are also largely engaged in putting 
up fruits; and have succeeded in so perfectly excluding the 
atmospheric air, as to keep tomatoes, berries, peaches, and 
pears, etc., fresh and undecayed a whole year, and some of 
them even longer. 

They are put up in wide-mouthed quart jars, either of glass 
or stone. The fruit (except berries) is peeled, quartered, and 
their pips taken out, and the jars filled. These are then placed 
in a trough or shallow square tub, into which hot water is al- 
lowed to run till it surrounds the jars nearly to the top. The 
juice is thus heated sufficiently to expel the air, but not so as 
to boil or cook the fruit. The cork is, lastly, introduced, and 
covered with paste, cement, sealing-wax, or something imper- 
vious to air. 

Undried grapes may be preserved a long time by placing 
them in large jars, filling up the jars with sawdust, and then 
cementing the lids so as entirely to exclude the air. 

The following methods of keeping grapes in good condition 
long after they have ripened are convenient, and are said 
to be very successful. " Cut off the grapes, with a joint or 
two, or more, of wood below each bunch ; make a clean cut, 
and apply sealing-wax, as hot as can be used, to it, and seal 
the wood closely, so that no air can enter the tissues commu- 
nicating with the bunch. Then hang the bunches up on cords. 



Preservation of Foods. 113 

Bottling Gooseberries and Currants— Preservation by Scalding. 

with the stalk-ends downward, suspended across a closet in a 
cool, airy room, taking care that they do not touch each other; 
cut down as wanted. Or this : cover the table in the fruit- 
room with fine, dry moss, and on this lay the bunches which 
have been carefully picked and cleaned of all bad berries, 
wiping the sound ones with a delicate piece of flannel ; leave 
the bunches on the moss three days, each bunch by itself, 
which prevents the grapes from being injured by the pressure 
of their own weight ; for want of moss, use cotton. Prepare 
hoops of proper strength, some three feet in diameter, with 
strings to suspend them, and attach the grapes to the hoop ; 
take iron wire, just stout enough, when made into an S-shaped 
hook, to suspend one bunch — now fix one of these hooks to 
the bottom-end of the bunch, and hang it on the hoop, so as 
to keep each bunch by itself When they have hung some 
eight days, they will be free from moisture, if the weather has 
not been too damp, and when they are dry, close up the room 
perfectly tight ; examine the grapes every eight days, remov- 
ing all bad ones." 

Green gooseberries and currants, if gathered in very dry 
weather, may be cut from the stalks carefully, and dropped 
gently into wide-mouthed bottles. The bottles are then to 
be corked and rosined or cemented, and buried below the 
frost, or kept in a very dry, cool cellar. They will keep still 
better if the bottles are plunged for a few moments in hot 
water before corking. 

Scalding fruit, so as to coagulate the gluten, and thus arrest 
the fermentation, has been resorted to successfully in preserv- 
ing some kinds of fruits, especially apricots, gooseberries, cur- 
rants, raspberries, cherries, and plums. Wide-mouthed stone 
bottles are filled with the fruit, carefuLly picked; they are 
then placed in a kettle filled with cold water nearly to the 
mouth of the bottles, and the water heated to one hundred 
and sixty-five degrees. After subjecting the fruit to this degree 
of heat for half an hour, the bottles are hermetically sealed. 



114: Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Covering with Water — Boiling — Peaches in Tin Cases. 

The cranberry, and some of the smaller kinds of apples, will 
keep for a considerable time by being covered with water. 

The juice of the grape, tomato, and probably many other 
fruits, may be preserved by simply boiling it for a short time, 
and then afterward secluding it from the atmosphere. 

Some fruits of the gourd kind — pumpkins, squashes, etc., 
can be dried on metal plates heated by steam, sufficiently to 
be powdered or ground into a fine flour. The Shakers sell 
the article as pumpkin powder, which is very convenient for 
making pies expeditiously. 

Peach leather and tomato leather are prepared by squeezing 
out the pulp of the very ripe fruit, spreading it out thinly on 
plates or shingles, and drying in the sun, or by hot air or 
steam, until quite hard and tough. They may also be dried 
in a brick oven. 

The following method of preserving peaches in tin cans 
recently appeared in a Mississippi paper, from the pen of a 
writer who claims to have had considerable experience, 

" In the first place, be absolutely certain that the cans are 
made air-tight. Peal your peaches, cut them in halves, take 
out the seeds, and fill the cans within a half inch of the top, 
shaking the peaches down as close as possible. Then take 
loaf-sugar in the proportion of two pounds to a pint of water, 
boil and strain. Pour this sirup over the peaches in the cans, 
and then have the square piece of tin put on, leaving a small 
vent in the center. Place the cans in a kettle with water 
enough to come within an inch of the top of the cans. Boil 
the cans from fifteen to thirty minutes, or longer if necessary 
keeping the vent open with a knitting-needle, until the air or 
sirup ceases to flow. Remove the kettle from the fire, and 
while the cans remain in the hot water close the vent with 
solder. 

" This is decidedly tho best plan, as I well know by expe- 
rience. It takes no more sugar to make the sirup than it will 
take to sweeten them after you open the cans for use," 



Presekvation of Foods. 115 

Preservation of Pomaceous Fruits — Cultivation of Currants and Gooseberries. 

Pumpkins and squashes, and the stalks of rhubarb, can be 
conveniently peeled, cut into slices or strips, and dried in either 
of the foregoing ways. 

The pomaceous fruits — apples, pears, peaches, etc. — peeled, 
cored, and cut into slices, or, if not too large, simply quartered, 
preserve their flavor and nutritive properties very well for 
nearly a year. 

The majority of berried fruits retain a good degree of their 
dietetic qualities the year round, on being dried and kept in 
boxes or bags in a cool, clean, airy place. 

The following valuable remarks on the cultivation of cur- 
rants and gooseberries, are from a late number of the Vermont 
Chronicle : 

" It is presumed that not one in a hundred understands the 
simple process of cultivating either currants or gooseberries, 
although it has been detailed in the horticultural books with 
which the world abounds. Thousands of persons, with every 
appliance for success, are still content to live without a plen- 
tiful supply of these delicious, healthy, and cheap luxuries, 
merely because they have not thought of the matter. They 
have a few stinted bushes set in the grass, with three fourths 
of the stocks dead, and then wonder why they do not bear in 
abundance, 

" There is not a more beautiful shrub growing than the cur 
rant, properly propagated ; and the same may be said of the 
gooseberry. Cultivators who pay any attention to the sub- 
ject never allow but one stock, or, as the English say, ' make 
them stand on one leg;' thus forming a beautiful miniature 
tree, 

" To do this you must take sprouts of last year's growth, 
and cut out all the eyes, or buds in the Nvood, leaving only 
two or three at the top ; then push them about half the length 
of the cutting into mellow ground, where they will root, and 
run up a single stock, forming a beautiful symmetrical head. 
If you wish it higher, cut the eyes out the second year. I 



116 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



Various Methods of Conserving Fruits— Plan of an Ice-House. 

have one six feet high. This places your fruit out of the way 
of hens, and prevents the gooseberry from mildewing, which 
often happens on or near the ground, when it is shaded by a 
superabundance of leaves and sprouts. It changes an unsightly 
bush, which cumbers and disfigures your garden, into an orna- 
mental dwarf tree. The fruit is larger, ripens better, and will 
last on the bushes, by growing in perfection, until late in the fall. 

" The mass of people suppose that the roots take out from the 
lower buds. It is not so ; they start from between the bark and 
the wood, at the place where it was cut from the parent root." 

The methods of conserving fruits by means of sirup, alco- 
hol, vinegar, and salt, need not be dwelt upon here. The first 
is, to say the least, very bad, and the last two are outrages 
upon the human stomach, which no intelligent physiologist or 
sensible hydropath ought ever to tolerate. 



IcE-HousES. — These are so intimately connected with the 



rig. 81. 




PLAN OF AN ICE-HOUBE. 



subject of preserving 
food, that some gen- 
eral plan of construct- 
ing them seems ap- 
propriate in this place. 
Fig. 81 is an outline 
of the method com- 
monly adopted. A 
well is sunk in the 
form of an inverted 
cone, a, &, which is 
lined with cement or 
brick-work, of a brick 
and a half in thick- 
ness, and arched over. 
The ice is put in 
through the opening 
g, at top, and taken 



Presekvation of Foods. 117 

Arrangements about an Ice-Housc — Economical Contrivance. 

out at the side door, c ; a drain, c?, e, at the bottom carries off 
the water of the melted ice. The conical form of the well is 
for the purpose of having the ice keep compact by sliding down 
as it melts. The walls of the cone should be built with good 
hard mortar or Roman cement. At the bottom the ice should 
be supported on a thin wooden grating, or an old cart-wheel, 
as represented in the cut. Where the situation will not ad- 
mit of a drain, the bottom of the ice-well may terminate in 
a small well sunk still deeper, and this emptied by a pump. 
The passage to the ice-house should be divided by two or 
more doors, so as to keep a current of external air from reach- 
ing the ice. 

It is said that ice may be kept for a whole year in the open 
air by making a pile of it on dry ground (the north side of a 
hill being preferable), in a conical form, of a considerable size, 
in winter during a hard frost, and covering it a foot thick with 
a layer of fagot-wood, then with a layer of straw, and lastly 
one of thatch. It should be placed on elevated dry ground, 
tnd in a shaded place if possible. 



CHAPTER V. 

THEORY OF NUTRITION. 

Prevalent Errors, — Medical writings are full of errors, 
and the public mind is full of whims concerning the nature, 
properties, and nutritive virtues of nearly all the substances 
employed as food. Much of the confusion that prevails on the 
subject is attributable to a loose and indefinite use of words ; 
and not a little of the error extant is owing to false views of 
the nature of the nutritive function itself. 

For example, the term stimulus, or stimulating, is often used 
in different senses, and not unfrequently without any sense at 
all. Thus, physicians are in the habit of saying to cold, pale, 
thin, and debilitated patients, for whom some other doctor has 
recommended a vegetarian diet, that they require a " more 
stimulating diet," meaning, of course, flesh-meat. And I have 
heard more than one doctor of the " old school" call " flesh, fish, 
and fowl" tonic or high diet, in contradistinction to vegetable 
food, which they termed reducing or loiv diet. 

The phrase "high living" is in common parlance applied to 
the habit of eating so gluttonously of unhealthful dishes as to 
cause the whole body to become a bloated mass of disease ; or 
else an attenuated wreck of a prematurely worn-out organism 
— as though it were decidedly vulgar to eat plain, wholesome 
food and be well Those who become sick and dyspeptic on 
concentrated aliments, butter biscuits, and short cakes, plum 
puddings, and " knic-knacs" innumerable, are said to suffer from 
the effects of "too good living" — as though healthful living 
was actually bad! Many physiological writers tell us that 
the reason greasy dishes, gravies, etc., are so obnoxious to the 
digestive organs is, because they are " too rich" in carbon ; aa 



Theokt of Nutrition. 119 

Nature of Stimulus — Nutrition Defined — Illnstrations. 

though food which had exactly the right proportion of carbon 
for wholesome nutriment must necessarily ho, poor ! And wo 
not uncommonly meet with a poor, wretched invalid, who has 
suffered through half a lifetime, more of infirmity and misery 
than could be related in a month — all attributable to improper 
dietetic habits — who, on being told that the adoption and rigid 
persistence in a plain vegetable dietary will in a few years re- 
store him or her to comparative health and usefulness, and 
very materially prolong the period of existence, replies with 
solemn, yet almost ludicrous gravity, " I had rather live a little 
better, and not quite so long." 

If such expressions do not mislead those who hear them, 
they do certainly indicate any thing but clearness and precis- 
ion in the minds of those who employ them ; for no persdn 
who entertains definite and correct ideas of the relations of 
food to health, could ever talk in this nonsensical manner. 

Definition of Nutrition. — Pure and perfect nutrition im- 
plies the assimilation of nutrient material to the structures of 
the body, without the least excitement, disturbance, or impres- 
sion of any kind that can properly be called stimulating. All 
stimulus, therefore, is directly opposed to healthful nutrition, 
and a source of useless expenditure or waste of vital power. 

Different substances taken into the stomach with food, or as 
food, may excite preternatural actions or commotions — arouse 
vital resistance — but such effects are no parts of their nutritive 
operations or qualities. Stimulus has no applicability to food ; 
it applies only to foreign substances, as drugs, medicines, and 
other poisons. Brandy applied to a feeble stomach, or the lash 
applied to a jaded horse, is a good illustration of a stimulant 
operation. Each induces action without affording material 
whereby to sustain that action. Rest and pure aliment are the 
only true restoratives in either case ; and to neither of these 
can attach the idea of that preternatural turbulence of the or- 
ganism which denotes the operation of a stimulus. 



120 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



The Digestive Function— View of the Abdominal Viscera. 



Fig. 82. 




ABDOMINAL VISCEBA- 

Digestion. — Fig. 82 is a general view of the viscera of the 
abdomen. 1. The stomach raised. 2. Under surface of the 
liver. 3. The gall bladder. 4, The spleen or melt. 5. The 
pancreas or sweet-bread. 6. The kidneys. 7. The ureters. 8. 
the urmary bladder. 9. A portion of the intestine called duo- 
denum. 10. A portion of the lower intestine called rectum. 
11. The aorta. 



Theory of Nutjbition. .121 

Time of Diiieslion — Beaumont's Experiments — Digestive Processes. 

It is a common error that such articles of food as are soonest ' 
dissolved in the stomach, are most easily digested. It is 
well known that tainted meat, or that which has become pu- 
trescent by decomposition will "pass along" through the stom- 
ach and be resolved into a chymous mass sooner than will 
fresh meat, or even the best of bread. But it would hardly 
comport with common sense to call such half-rotted flesh most 
wholesome or most digestible on that account. 

Digestion is a complex function, beginning with mastication 
and ending with assimilation; and those aliments which best 
secure the due exercise of all the functions subservient to nu- 
trition, and in the end supply the organism with the best 
material, are, physiologically, the easiest to be digested. 

Much stress has been laid by all late writers on digestion and 
cookery on the experiments of Dr. Beaumont, who introduced 
into the stomach of Alexis St. Martan — the stomach having 
been perforated by a gun-shot wound — nearly a hundred dif- 
ferent alimentary substances with a view of ascertaining their 
"mean time of chymification." I do not regard those experi- 
ments as of any scientific importance, beyond that of affording 
another illustration of principles which can be as well demon- 
strated without the experiments, viz., that alcoholic stimulants, 
spices, etc., retard digestion by inflaming the coats of the 
stomach. As already intimated, it matters not whether a 
given aliment digests or dissolves in one hour or six, so far as 
its nutritive value is concerned. This must be determined in 
some other way. 

Summary of the Digestive Processes. — The phenomena 
of nutrition comprehend the following processes, and in the 
order named : The food, when solid, is first reduced to fine 
particles by the teeth and other masticatory organs, at the same 
time mixed with the solvent fluid secreted by the salivary 
glands. It then passes into the stomach, where it receives 
another solvent — the gastric juice, and is subjected to a kind 

6 



122 Htdkopathic Cook- Book. 

Changes of the Nutrient Material — Insalivation. 

of churning motion by the action of the musculai- fibers or coats 
of the stomach. When it becomes reduced to a homogeneous 
mass (chyme), it passes into the first intestine — the duodenum. 
There it receives still another solvent — the pancreatic juice, 
which completes its solution. Its nutrient portion (chyle) is 
taken up by the lacteal absorbents, carried through a set of 
glands (mesenteric) which further elaborate it ; it is next passed 
on to the lungs, where it is vitalized by contact with atmo- 
spheric oxygen ; thence it passes through the heart and arteries 
into the fine hair-like structure of vessels (capillaries), where 
the last process of digestion is performed, and the material of 
food finally fitted for becoming a part of each organ and struc- 
ture of the body. Its assimilation with, or adhesion to, the 
living tissue completes the complex function of nutrition. 

But as the philosophy of this subject ought to be understood 
by every mother and every cook — and every mother ought to 
be a cook — a few illustrations will be worth the space they 
will occupy. 

Insalivation. — No part of the digestive process is more im- 
portant, and none is, by the great mass of people, so little 
appreciated, as that of insalivation. In order that every part 
and particle of our food may be thoroughly mixed with the 
saliva, nature has provided six distinct glands, three on each 
side of the jaw, whose office is to secrete the salivary fluid. 

The presence of food in the mouth excites the salivary glands 
to action, and the act of mastication further provokes the flow 
of saliva. Thus, without some portions of our food being of 
a solid consistence so as to secure thorough mastication, it can 
not be properly mixed with the saliva. 

It has been noticed that herbivorous animals have a much 
more copious secretion of saliva than the carnivorous ; and it 
is true, also, that vegetarians of the human species have this 
secretion more abundant than those who partake of a mixed 
diet. Spices, condiments, salt, vinegar, etc., tend to check the 



Theory of JSTutrition, 



123 



Morbid Salivary Secretion — The Salivary Glands. 



secretion by producing an inflammatory condition. Those who 
defile their mouths with tobacco juice or smoke often have a 
morbid running or driveling from the mouth, not of true saliva, 
however, but of a depraved and acrid secretion analogous to a 
"running at the nose" in the case of "catarrh of the head," 
and other morbid affections of the mucous membrane. 

Fig. 88, 




THB SALIVAKT GLANDS. 



In Fig. 83 are seen all the glands of one side, in their pro- 
per situation. 1. The parotid gland. 2. Its duct. 3. The 
submaxillary gland. 4. Its duct. 5. The sublingual gland. 



Mastication. — A glance at the anatomical structure of the 
teeth is alone sufficient to impress the close observer of the 
teachings of natural history with the importance of " eating 
slowly and chewing deliberately." 

Fig. 84 exhibits a lateral view of all the teeth, in situ. The 
front incisor, or cutting teeth, are sharp on the edges, for the 



124 



Htdkopathic Cook-Book. 



The Masticatory Organs— The Soft Palate— Deglutition. 



Fig. 84. 




ABKA.NGEMENT OF THE TEKTH. 



purpose of cutting or dividing the food into smaller portions ; 
the cuspid, or eye-tooth, which projects a very little beyond 
the others, grasps more firmly the alimentary substance ; the 
bicuspid come next, having two prominences on their points, 
to breali the alimentary substances into still finer particles ; 
and, lastly, the molars, or grinders, with four or five promi- 
nences and depressions each, to reduce and comminute the food 
to a homogeneal and pulpy mass. 



Deglutition. — Fig. 85 is a view of the mouth, showing 
particularly the soft jxilate, tonsils, and tongue. 1. Anterior 
arch of the soft palate. 2. Posterior arch. 3. Tonsils. 4. 
Uvula. 5. Communication between the mouth and pharynx. 
6. The tongue. 7. Anterior or nervous papillte. 8. and 9. 
Upper and lower turbinated bones dividing the nostrils into 
(10) chambers. 

The soft palate is composed of muscular fibers inclosed in 
the mucous membrane of the mouth, and forms a movable 
partition, suspended, transversely, from the posterior part of 
the bony arch of the palate. No less than ten distinct muscles 
Rnter into the formation of the soft palate, which are so disposed 
as to render it capable of descending and applying itself 



Theory of Nuteition. 



125 



Explanation of the Physiology of Deglutition, 



against the tongue, so as Fig. 85. 

completely to close the pas- 
sage between the mouth and 
pharynx; and also of as- 
cending obliquely backward 
toward the posterior head 
of the pharynx, so as to close 
up completely the passage 
between the pharynx and 
the nose; thus performing 
the part of a double valve. 
The conical-shaped uvula 
hangs pendulous from the 
center of the soft palate. 
It assists in completing the 
valve formed by the soft 
palate and also in modulating 
the voice. When destroyed 
by disease, therefore, both 
the deglutition of food and 
the sound of the voice are rendered more or less imperfect. 

Every time the act of deglutition is performed, the openings 
to the windpipe and to the nose are closed, so that during this 
operation all access of air to the lungs is stopped, consequently 
it is necessary that the passage of the food through the pharynx 
should be rapid. Mastication, a voluntary process, may be 
performed slowly or rapidly, perfectly or imperfectly, without 
serious mischief; but life depends on the passage of the food 
through the pharynx with extreme rapidity and with the 
nicest precision. It is therefore taken out of the province of 
volition and entrusted to organs which belong to the organic 
life, organs which carry on their operations with the steadi- 
ness, constancy, and exactness of bodies whose motions are 
determined by a physical law. 




0KGAN3 OP DEQLtrrniow. 



1% 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



Organs and Parts within and around the Mouth. 



Fig. 86. 




BIDa VIEW OP THE MOtTTH. 



Fig. 86 is a side view of the mouth, pharynx, nose, etc. 1 
Mouth. 2. Tongue. 3. Section of the lower jaw. 4. Sub- 
maxillary gland. 5. Sublingual gland. 6. Hyoid bone. 7. 
Thyroid cartilage. 8. Thyroid gland. 9. Trachea. 10. In- 
terior of the pharynx. 11. Section of the soft palate. 12. 
The Esophagus. 13. Interior of the nose. 14. The two 
spongy bones dividing it into three chambers. 15. The pos- 
terior communication with the upper part of the pharynx. 

The tonsils, which co-operate with the other glandular struc- 
tures of the mouth in secreting solvent and lucubrating fluids, 
are inclosed between two layers, produced by the separation 



Theoet of I^titeitio 



N, 



127 



Motions of the Tongue— Unperverted Instincts— Seasonings. 

of the lateral edges of the soft pulate. They are seen in fig 



Fig. sr. 



87, which is a poste- 
rior view of the nose, 
mouth, pharynx, and 
larynx. 1. Posterior 
openings of the nose, 
communicating with 
the upper part of 
the pharynx. 2. Pos- 
terior surface of the 
soft palate. 3. Uvula. 
4. Back part of the 
mouth communicating 
with the pharynx. 5. 
The tonsils. 6. Back 
part or root of the 
tongue, 7. Posterior 
surface of the epiglot- 
tis. 8. The larynx. 
9. Opening of the 
larynx into the phar- 
ynx. 10. Cut edges of the pharynx. 11, Esophagus, the 
continuation of the pharynx. 12. Trachea, the continuation 
of the larynx. 13. Muscles acting on the pharynx. 

The tongue is composed of six distinct muscles, the fibers 
of which are so interwoven as to form an intricate network, 
and afford a variety and rapidity of motion almost inconceiv- 
able ; many of which are necessary to bring the food under 
the operation of the grinding teeth, and to urge it, when prop- 
erly prepared, into the esophagus, on its way to the stomach. 
The advantages of pure instincts and unperverted senses in 
developing the gustatory properties of aliments instead of pep- 
per, salt, and vinegar, are well indicated in the following extract 
from a late English work [Philosophy of Health) by Dr. South- 
wood Smith : 




THE UOUXn POSTERIOELT, 



129 JStdeopathic Cooe-Book. 

Sensation and Yolition— Mastication— Taste and Smell. 

" It is deeply interesting to observe the part performed in 
these opeijations by sensation and volition, and the boundary 
at which their influence terminates and consciousness itself is 
lost. Mastication, a voluntary operation, carried on by volun- 
tary muscles, at the command of the will, is attended with 
consciousness, always in the state of health of a pleasurable 
nature. To communicate this consciousness, the tongue, the 
palate, the lips, the cheeks, the soft palate, and even the 
pharynx, are supplied with a prodigious number of sentient 
nerves. The tongue especially, one of the most active agents 
in the operation, is supplied with no less than six nerves 
derived from three different sources. These nerves, spread 
out upon this organ, give to its upper surface, a complete 
covering, and some of them terminate in sentient extremi- 
ties visible to the naked eye. These sentient extremities, 
with which every point of the upper surface but more espe- 
cially the apex, is studded, constitute the bodies termed pa- 
pillae, the immediate and special seat of the sense of taste. 
This sense is also diffused, though in a less exquisite degree, 
over the whole internal surface of the mouth. Close to the 
sense of taste is placed the seat of the kindred sense of 
smell. The business of both these senses is with the qualities 
of the food. Mastication at once brings out the qualities of 
the food, and puts the food in contact with the organs that are 
to take cognizance of it. Mastication, a rough operation, ca- 
pable of being accomplished only by powerful instruments 
•which act with force, is carried on in the very same spot with 
sensation, an exquisitely delicate operation, having its seat in 
soft and tender structures, with which the appropriate objects 
are brought into contact only with the gentlest impulse. The 
agents of the coarse and the delicate, the forcible and the gentle 
operations are in close contact, yet they work together, not 
only without obstruction, but with the most perfect subservi- 
ency and co-operation. 

" The movements of mastication are produced, and, until they 



Theory of I^f t e i t i o n 



129 



Pleasure in Eating Essential to Perfect Digestion. 



have accomplished the objects of the operation, are repeated by 
successive acts of volition. To induce .these acts, grateful 
sensations are excited by the contact of the food with the sen- 
tient nerves so liberally distributed over almost the whole of 
the apparatus. To the provision thus made for the production 
of pleasurable sensation, is superadded the necessity of direct 
and constant attention tc the pleasure included in the gratifi- 
cation of the taste. It is justly observed by Dr. A. Combe, 
that without some degree of attention to the process of eating, 
and some distinct perception of its gratefulness, the food can 
not be duly digested. When the mind is so absorbed as to 
be wholly unconscious of it, or even indifferent to it, the food 
is swallowed without mastication ; then it lies in the stomach 
for hours together without being acted upon by the gastric 
juice, and if this be done often, the stomach becomes so much 
disordered as to lose its power of digestion, and death is the 
inevitable result: so that not only is pleasurable sensation 
annexed to the reception of food, but the direct and continuous 
consciousness of that pleasurable sensation during the act of 
eating is made one of the conditions of the due performance of 
the digestive function." 

Chtmification. — ^The stomach is a muscular bag, of an ir- 



Fig. 88. 




inr8cin.AB coats of the stomagil 
6* 



regular oval shape, 
placed transverse 
ly across the uppei 
part of the abdo 
men, and capable, 
in the adult, of 
holding about 

three pints. The 
arrangement of its 
fibres is exhibited 
in fig. 88. 1. The 
esophagus, termii*' 



130 



Hydeopathic Cook-Bo ok. 



Action of the Stomach — Its Orifices and Curvatures. 



ating in the stomach. 2. The cardiac orifice. 3. The pylorus. 
4. Commencement of the duodenum. 5. The large curvature 
of the stomach. 6. The small curvature. 7. Its large extrem- 
ity. 8. Its small extremity. 9. Its longitudinal muscular 
fibers. 10. Its circular muscular fibers. 

The contraction of the longitudinal fibers diminishes the 
length, and that of the circular fibers the diameter of the tube; 
hence the food, acted upon by both sets of muscular fibers is 
turned, squeezed, and compressed, during digestion, in various 
directions. 

The esophagus opens into the left extremity of the stomach 
obliquely, by an aperture called the cardiac orifice ; and at 
the right extremity the stomach opens into the duodenum by 
a smaller aperture, called the pyloric orifice. Between these 
orifices are the two curvatures of the stomach, the one above 
called the smaller, and the lower on the larger curvature. The 

Fig. 89. 




IKTEEIOE or TUli BTJLIiCU A^'D Dl'ODE.NUM. 



Theoey of N^utkition. 131 

Coats of the Stomach — Gastric Juice — Pylorus. 

inner oi" mucous coat of the stomach is lined with minute 
bodies called villi, which gives its whole surface a velvety ap- 
pearance. This mucous coat is also plaited into numerous 
folds, termed rugce^ whose object is to enlarge the space for 
blood-vessels and nerves ; and immediately beneath the mucous 
coat are the follicles that secrete the mucous fluid which lubri- 
cates and defends its internal surface. 

Fig. 89 shows the internal surface of the stomach and duo- 
denum, and also the entrance of the bile duct from the liver 
into the alimentary tube. 1. Mucous membrane, forming the 
rug£e. 2. Pyloric orifice, opening into the duodenum. 3. 
Duodenum. 4. Interior of the duodenum, showing the val- 
vulse conniventes. 5. Termination of the bile duct, 6. The 
common biliary duct from the gall-bladder and liver. 7. Pan- 
creatic duct, terminating at the same point as the bile duct. 
8. Gall-bladder, removed from the liver. 9. Hepatic duct, 
proceeding from the liver. 10. Cystic duct, proceeding from 
the gall-bladder. 

The gastric juice, which is sometimes called the digestive 
fluid, from its possessing stronger solvent properties than any 
other of the fluids concerned in digestion, is probably secreted 
by the minute extremities or arteries which are expanded upon 
the villi of the mucous coat. 

A thick, strong, circular muscle surrounds the pyloric ori- 
fice, presenting the appearance of a prominent and even pro- 
jecting band. This muscular band is the lyylorus^ while the 
aperture itself is the pyloric orifice. The office of the pylorus 
is to guard the opening out of the stomach, and prevent the 
passage of aliment until it has been sufficiently acted upon bj 
the gastric juice and the motions of the stomach. 

The importance attached to the nutritive function by the 
Great Architect of the vital machinery, and its complexity of 
character, is well indicated in fig. 90, representing the vas- 
cular connection between the stomach, liver, spleen, and pan- 
creas. 1. The stomach raised to exhibit its posterior surface. 



132 



IIydkopathic Cook-Book, 



Vascular Connections of the Stomach — Its Nerves. 



Fi^. 90. 




VASCULA.R CONNECTIONS OF THB STOMACH. 



2. Pylorus. 3. Duodenum. 4. Pancreas. 5. Spleen. 6. 

Under surface of the liver. 7. Gall-bladder, in connection 

with the liver. 8. Large vessels proceeding from a common 

trunk (9), to supply all the above viscera. 

The stomach is plentifully supplied with arterial blood, the 

quantity sent to it being greater than that supplied to any other 

organ except the brain. 

The vessels of the stomach (fig. 91) form two distinct 

layers, the external of which is distributed to the muscular and 

peritoneal coats, and the internal to the villi of the mucous ooat. 

The supply of 
nerves to the stom- 
^ ach is also abundant, 
both of the organic 
and sentient sys- 
tems. Upon the ar- 
teries, the organic 
nerves are spread 
out in such numbers 
as to envelop them 
completely, form- 

BLOOD-VSSSEI^ OF TOE STOMAOn. ^ r ' ' 



Fig. 91. 




Theory of JSTTTTEiTioiir, 



133 



Nervous Plexuses — Organic Nerves of the Stomach. 



ing, as it were, a coat of nervous plexuses. This arrangement 
is shown in fig, 92. 1, Under surface of the liver, turned up 

Fig. 92. 




OEOANIC NEr.VES OF THE STOMACH. 

to bring into view the anterior surface of the stomach. 2. 
Gall-hla ider. 3. Organic nerves enveloping the trunks of 
the blood-vessels. 4. Pyloric extremity of the stomach and 
commencement of the duodenum. 5. Contracted portion of 
the pylorus. 6. Situation of the hour-glass contraction of the 
Ktomach. 7. Omentum 



134: Hydeopathic Cook-Book. 

Arrangement of Food in the Stomach — Remarkable Change. 

In consequence of these organic nerves the stomach is placed, 
to a great extent, beyond the reach of volition, and enabled, 
in a state of health, to perform its functions without mental 
consciousness. Yet their connection with the sentient nerves 
enables us to experience pleasure when its functions are duly 
• and healthfully performed, and causes us to suffer pain when 
its office is deranged or disordered. How much distress, and 
what variety of anguish, a morbid condition of the stomach 
induces, the victim of dyspepsia only can feel and know. 

By the learned and celebrated Mr. Hunter the stomach 
was termed the " center of sympathies." The appellation is 
emphatically correct, as relates either to its sound or its mor- 
bid conditions. 

Says Dr. Southwood Smith : 

" The food, on reaching the stomach, does not occupy indif- 
ferently any portion of it, but is arranged in a peculiar manner 
always in one and the same part. If the stomach be observed 
in a living animal, or be inspected soon after death, it is seen 
that about a third of its length toward the pylorus is divided 
from the rest by the contraction of the circular fibers called 
the hour-glass contraction (fig. 92, 6). The stomach is thus 
divided into a cardiac and a pyloric portion (fig. 92, 6). The 
food, when first received by the stomach, is always deposited 
in the cardiac portion, and is there arranged in a definite man- 
ner. The food first talien is placed outermost, that is, nearest 
the surface of the stomach ; the portion next taken is placed 
interior to the first, and so on in succession, until the food last 
taken occupies the center of the mass. When new food is 
received before tiae old is completely digested, the two kinds 
are kept distinct, the new being always found in the center of 
the old. 

" Soon after the food has been thus arranged, a remarkable 
change takes place in the mucous membrane of the stomach. 
The blood-vessels become loaded with blood ; its villi enlarge, 
and its cryptae, the minute cells between the rugas, overflow 



ThEOKT of N JJT RITION. 135 

Phenomena in Digestion — Solvent Power of Gastric Juice. 



vrith fluid. This fluid is the gastric juice, which is secreted by 
the arterial capillaries now turgid with blood. The abundance 
of the secretion, which progressively increases as the digestion 
advances, is in proportion to the indigestibility of the food, and. 
the quietude of the body after the repast. 

In the food itself no change is manifest for some time ; but 
at length that portion of it which is in immediate contact with 
the surface of tho stomach begins to be slightly softened. 
This softening slowly but progressively increases until the tex- 
ture of the food, whatever it may have been, is gradually lost ; 
and ultimately the most solid portions of it are completely dis- 
solved. 

" When a portion of food thus acted on is examined, it pre- 
sents the appearance of having been cori-oded by a chemical 
agent. The white of a hard-boiled egg looks exactly as if it 
had been plunged in vinegar or in a solution of potass. The 
softened layer, as soon as the softening is sufficiently advanced, 
is, by the action of the muscular coat of the stomach, detached, 
carried toward the pylorus, and ultimately transmitted to the 
duodenum ; then another portion of the harder and undigested 
food is brought into immediate contact with the stomach, 
becomes softened in its turn, and is in lilve manner detached ; 
and this process goes on until the whole is dissolved. 

" The solvent power exerted by the gastric juice is most 
apparent when the stomach of an animal is examined three or 
four hours after food has been freely taken. At this period 
the portion of the food first in contact with the stomach is 
wholly dissolved and detached ; the portion subsequently 
brought into contact with the stomach is in the process of 
solution, while the central part remains very little changed. 

" The dissolved and detached portion of the food, from every 
part of the stomach flows slowly but steadily beyond the hour- 
glass contraction, or toward the pyloric extremity, in which not 
a particle of recent or undissolved food is ever allowed to 
remain. The fluid, which thus accumulates in this portion of 



136 IlYBROPATniC CooK-BooK. 

Action of tlie Duodenmn — The Stomacli during Chymifieation. 

the stomach, is a new product, in which the sensible properties 
of the food, whatever may have been the variety of substances 
taken at the meal, are lost. This new product, which is 
termed chyme, is an homogeneous fluid, pultaceous, grayish, 
insipid, of a faint sweetish taste, and slightly acid. 

" As soon as the chyme, by its gradual accumulation in the 
pyloric extremity amounts to about two or three ounces, the 
following phenomena take place. 

"First, the intestine called duodenum, the organ immedi- 
ately continuous with the stomach, contracts. The contrac- 
tion of the duodenum is propagated to the pyloric end of the 
stomach. By the contraction of this portion of the stomach, 
the chyme is carried backward from the pyloric into the car- 
diac extremity, where it does not remain, but quickly flows 
back again into the pyloric extremity, which is now expanded 
to receive it. Soon the pyloric extremity begins again to 
contract ; but now the contraction, the reverse of the former, 
is in the direction of the duodenum ; in consequence of which 
the chyme is propelled toward the pylorus. The pylorus, 
obedient to the demand of the chyme, relaxes, opens, and 
affords to the fluid a free passage into the duodenum. As soon 
as the whole of the duly prepared chyme has passed out of 
the stomach, the pylorus closes, and remains closed, until two 
or three ounces more are accumulated, when the same succes- 
sion of motions are renewed with the same result ; and again 
cease to be again renewed, as long as the process of chymifi- 
eation goes on. 

" When the stomach contains a large quantity of food, these 
motions are limited to the parts of the organ nearest the pylorus ; 
as it becomes empty, they extend farther along the stomach, 
until the great extremity itself is involved in them. These 
motions are always strongest toward the end of chymifiea- 
tion. 

"The stomach during chymifieation is a closed chamber; 
its cardiac orifice is shut by the valved entrance of the esopha 



TiiEOKT OF Nutrition. 137 

Kapidity of the Digestive Process — OflBce of the Bile. 

gus, and its pyloric orifice by the contraction of the py- 
lorus. 

"The rapidity with which the process of chymification is 
carried on is different according to the digestibility of the food, 
the bulk of the morsels swallowed, the quantity received by 
the stomach, the constitution of the individual, the state of the 
health, and, above all, the class of the animal, for it is widely 
different in different classes. In the human stomach, in about 
five hours after an ordinary meal, the whole of the food is 
probably converted into chyme." 

The office which the bile performs in relation to the digest- 
ive function, has long been a controverted point. My own 
opinion is, that bile is wholly an excrementitious substance, 
although in the process of expulsion it may act as a chemical 
solvent of fatty matters, which are taken into the stomach 
with our food, or as a part of it ; and may also serve as an an- 
tiseptic to other effete matters which pass off by the bowels. 
Brodie and Mayo, of England, Tiedeman and Gmeliu, of Ger- 
many, and Leuret and Lassaigne, of France, have each and all 
satisfied themselves by experiment that the bile is some way 
recrementitious, and that its presence is necessary to separate 
the chyle from the chyme in the first intestines. They cut 
open the abdomen of animals, tied the common gall-duct, then 
fed the animals as usual, and on killing them some time 
after, and examining their bodies, found precisely what might 
have been expected — no chyle in the intestines or lacteals. 
But my explanation is somewhat different from theirs. In my 
judgment, the local inflammation and general fever consequent 
on the injury were sufficient to Interrupt the process of diges- 
tion, and prevent the due formation of chyle, just as fevers 
and inflammations do when arising from a variety of other 
causes. 

Nor can I regard the bile, in any degree, as the natural 
"stimulus" to the peristaltic action of the bowels; nor can I 
assent to the common doctrine that a deficency of bile is a cause 



138 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Biliary Secretion Deficient — Its Cause — Chylification. 

of constipation ; for I have known many diarrheas cease the 
moment a free secretion of bile was poured into the alimentary- 
canal. 

That the bile is wholly excrementitious is further corrobo- 
rated by the fact that the stomach will not tolerate its presence 
for a moment. When, in a morbid condition of the digestive 
organs, or by a retroverted action of the duodenum, it is pushed 
upward into the stomach, violent distress, nausea, retching, 
Tomiting, general trembling, etc., evince its noxious properties. 

There is no secretion in the whole system more generally 
deficient in civilized society than that of the liver ; no topic 
connected with fashionable ill-health is more talked about 
than biliousness ; and nearly all this trouble, it should be known, 
comes from bad ways of cooking and eating. 

The pancreatic juice, secreted by the pancreas, is analogous 
to the saliva. It enters the duodenum at the same point as 
the bile does ; and no doubt completes the perfect solution of 
the alimentary matter. 

It should be mentioned, also, that the duodenum secretes a 
fluid similar to, if not identical with, the gastric juice ; and, 
indeed, some physiologists affirm that the solvent property of 
the duodenal secretion is equal to that of the gastric juice. 

Chylification. — The intestinal tube is divided anatomi- 
cally into the small and the large intestines. The small intes- 
tines, taken together, are about four times the length of the 
body, and are subdivided into the duodenum, jejunum, and 
ileum. 

The large intestines are subdivided into the cascum, colon, 
and rectum. Fig. 93 is a view of the whole alimentary 
canal. 1. Esophagus. 2. Stomach. 3. Liver raised, show- 
ing the under surface. 4. Duodenum. 5. Small intestines, 
consisting of — 6. Jejunum and ileum. 7. Colon. 8. Urinary 
bladder. 9. Gall-bladder. 10. Abdominal muscles divided 
and reflected. 



Theory of Nutrition. 



139 



Second, Third, and Fourth Stomachs — Separation of Chyle. 



Fig. 93. 




ALIMENTAKT CANAL. 



In a strict physiological sense the duodenum may be 
regarded as a second stomach, and the jejunum as a third ; 
and we should scarcely trench on the field of imagination 
if we called the ileum a fourth; for through the whole length 
of the small intestines the process of digestion really goes on, 
a solvent fluid being secreted along their whole inner surface, 
though most copiously toward the stom-ach ; while lacteal ves 
pels, or chyle-carriers, open their mouths upon every portion 
of their mucous coat, though most abundantly toward the 
K^mach. 

In the duodenum the separation of chyle commences, and 



140 



Hydropathic Cook-Book. 



Arrangement of the Valvulse Cottilventes — View of the Lacteals. 

in the jejunum we find an admirable arrangement for re- 
taining the chyle, that time may be allowed for the lacteals to 
take it up. 

Fig. 94. 




m INTERNAL VIEW 07 THE JEJUNUM. 

Fig. 94 is an internal view of a portion of the jejunum, 
showing the arrangement of the mucous folds into valvulae 
conniventes — valves which retard or moderate the progress of 
the chylous fluid without arresting its course. The chyle in 
its downward course along the small intestines gradually dis- 
appears, xmtil at the termination of the ileum scarcely any por« 
tion of it can be detached. 

FiR. 95. 




mBHS BUEFAOa CF THB ILEUif. 



Theory of Nu trition. 



141 



Arrangement and Course of the Lacteals. 



When the mucous coat of the small intestines is examined 
several hours after a meal, the lacteal vessels are seen turgid 
with chyle, and covering its entire surface, as represented in 
fig. 95. 1. Smaller branches of the lacteals. 2. Larger 
branches, formed by the union of the smaller. 

These vessels, which are so numerous, and of such magni- 
tude as to sometimes almost conceal the ramifications of the 
blood-vessels, anastomose freely with each other, forming a 
network, from the meshes of which proceed branches, which, 
successively uniting, form larger and still larger trunks ; and 
these, perforating the mucous coat, pass for some distance 
between the mucous and muscular coats, finally perforating 
both coats, and passing to the outside of the intestine, and, 
with it, are included between the layers of the mesentery, as 

Fig. 96. 
4- 8 




COTTBSB OF THE LAOTBALB. 



seen in fig. 96. 1. The aorta. 2. Thoracic duct. 3. Exter- 
nal surface of a portion of small intestine. 4. Lacteals ap- 
pearing on the external surface of the intestine after having 



142 



Hydropathic Cook-Book:. 



Mesenteric Glands — View of the whole Lacteal System. 



perforated all of its coats. 5. Mesenteric glands of the first 
order. 6. Mesenteric glands of the second order. 7. Recep- 
tacle for the chyle. 8. Lymphatic vessels terminating in the 
receptacle of the chyle, or commencement of the thoracic 
duct. 

Within the fold of the mesentery all the different sets of 
lacteals converge and unite, forming a complicated plexus of 
vessels, from which the lacteals radiate and advance forward 

Fig. 97. 




LACTBAL BTBTX3I. 



Theoet of Ntjteition. 14:3 



The Entire Lacteal System — Eeceptacle of the Chyle — Defecation. 

to the mesenteric glands. These glands are small, rounded, 
oval, pale-colored bodies, consisting of two sets, arranged in a 
double row, the set nearest the intestine being the smallest. 

Fig. 97 is a view of the entire lacteal system, or the tho- 
racic duct, from Its origin to its termination. 1. Lacteal vessels 
emerging from the mucous surface of the intestines. 2. First 
order of mesenteric glands. 3. Second order of mesenteric 
glands. 4. The great trunks of the lacteals emerging from 
the mesenteric glands and pouring their contents into — 5. The 
receptacle of the chyle. 6. The great trunks of the lymphatic, 
or general absorbent system, terminating in the receptacle of 
Ihe chyle. 7. Thoracic duct. 8. Termination of the thoracic 
duct at — 9. The angle formed by the union of the internal 
jugular vein with the left subclavian vein. 

In the first series of glands the lacteals intercommunicate 
so freely that the glands themselves appear to consist of a 
congeries of convoluted lacteals. Proceeding onward to the 
second set, they are there again convoluted in a similar man- 
ner ; and after passing from thence the lacteals unite into 
larger and larger branches successively, until they finally form 
two or three trunks which terminate in the small oval sac 
called receptaculnm chyli — in it also terminate the absorbent 
vessels called lymphatics^ which bring back to the circulation' 
waste and superfluous matters taken up from every tissue and 
organ of the body. The chyle and lymph are, therefore, both 
poured into the venous blood just as it is about entering the 
right side of the heart, to be immediately transmitted to the 
lungs for arterialization and purification. 

Defecation. — In the large intestines is performed the pro- 
cess oifcEcation — the secretion from the blood of effete matter, 
and the expulsion of the waste or innutritious portion of the 
aliment. 

The abdominal portion of the digestive organs, with the 
divisions of the large intestines, are seen in fig. 98. 1. Esc- 



144 



Hydkopathic Cook-Boo k. 




Fecal Accumulations — Constipating Food — Large Intestines. 

Fig. »8. phagus, 2. Stomach. 3 

Spleen. 4. Liver, 5. Gall 
bladder, with its davits. 6 
Pancreas, with its duct. 7 
Duodenum. 8. Small intes- 
tines. 9. Large intestines 
dividing into — 10. Caecum 
11. Ascending colon. 12 
Arch of the colon. 13. De- 
scending colon. 14. Sigmoid 
flexure of the colon, here very 
imperfectly represented. 15. 
Rectum. 

The question has been 
lately discussed in the medical 
world, whether the feces are a 
secretion from the blood, or 
the indigestible portions of 
the food taken into the stom- 
ach. In my opinion they are 
both ; the proportions of each 
varying as the food is more or less nutritive or concentrated. 
Fecal accumulations in the large bowels, particularly in 
the cells of the colon, inducing ulcerations, al)scesses, piles, fis- 
tulas, concretions, worms, cholera, bilious cholic, dysentery, etc., 
are very common with those who use constipating food, of 
which superfine flour is the chief article. I have never known 
any of these complaints, worth mentioning, in persons whose 
diet has uniformly been unbolted farinaceous preparations, 
with the free use of fruits and vegetables. 

The large intestines are much shorter than the small, the 
CtEcum being only from two to six, the colon about five, and the 
rectura about eight inches in length ; and their mucous mem- 
brane is disposed into apaitments or cells, by which the descent 
of the excieuientitious matter is moderated and regulated. 



DIQE'TIVB APFARATirS. 



Theory of Nutrition. 145 

Advice to Mothers — Errors of Medical Teachers — Strange Food. 

The final dejection of the non-nutrient ingesta and feculent 
secretions is, like the prehension, mastication, and deglutition 
of food, attended with consciousness, and placed under control 
of the will ; an arrangement indispensable to our comfort and 
convenience, as well as well-being. 

Practical Reflections. — The intelligent mother who has 
made herself acquainted with the wonderful structures and 
elaborate functions by which alimentary matter is converted 
into the substance of our bodies, will be a thousand times more 
careful in selecting and preparing the food of her child than she 
will in choosing the materials and fashion of its clothing. The 
nature and character of the man or woman has a close relation 
to what the child was fed upon. 

It is strange to me — passing strange — how medical philoso- 
phers, familiarly acquainted with the minutest anatomical 
structures, and profoundly learned in all their physiological 
relations to each other and to the external world, can talk 
oracularly , as they assume to do, of salt, vinegar, spices, tea, 
coffee, and even alcohol and tobacco, as necessary or useful 
condiments and stimulants. There is not " a shadow of a shade" 
of reason for their employment dietetically ; and yet it is the 
prevailing doctrine of medical books that some of them at least 
are absolutely indispensable. 

In the catalogue of articles comprising the " Industry of All 
Nations," now on exhibition at the Crystal Palace, under the 
head of " Substances Employed as Food," we find chewing 
tobacco, various brands of cigars, different kinds oi wines, spiritu- 
ous liquors, etc. I have no knowledge that a medico-dietetical 
professor classified the articles in that catalogue under their 
respective heads, but the real author, whether he is or is not a 
real doctor of dietetics, has made no greater blunder than 
ninety-nine hundredths of the medical profession are making 
every day in the year. 

Many persons contend that animal food is more easily as- 

7 



146 Htdkopathic Cook-Book. 

Corpulency— The Mammoth Pig — Drugs and Poisons Fattening. 

similated than vegetable, because those specimens of the 
human being who eat very freely of all sorts of animal foods 
often become very corpulent ; and others argue that, because 
hogs and other animals can be fattened to an enormous bulk 
on a liberal supply of the flesh of other animals, that this is 
more nutritive than vegetable food. But the exTor arises from 
a misunderstanding of the true theory of nutrition. 

Nutrition, let me say again, is the replenishment of the tis- 
sues, not the accumulation of fat or adipose matter in the cellu- 
lar membrane. The latter is a disease, and a fattened animal, 
be it -a hog or an alderman, is a diseased animal. A well- 
developed man or beast, of one hundred and fifty pounds 
weight, would not have an ounce more of real strength, of act- 
ing, moving, walking fiber — of bone, nerve, muscle, or sinew 
— if he or it should be fattened to the bulk of five hundred or 
a thousand pounds. Fat men, fat women, fat children, and fat 
pigs, are not examples of excessive nutrition so much as of 
deficient excretion. And the " Mammoth Pig" now lying on 
his bed of straw in the vicinity of the Crystal Palace, and 
groaning stertorously under the load of more than half a ton 
of dead, effete, adipose excrement, is far from being a specimen 
of either good looks or good health. Examples of human beings 
suffering in a similar condition are not rare, and the spectacle 
they exhibit teaches precisely the same lesson. 

Various articles which are not only not alimentary in the 
least, but actually poisonous, as bitter herbs, aloes, cod-liver 
oil, arsenic, antimony, etc., are famous for fattening man and 
animals ; and the explanation of this phenomenon has an im- 
portant beai-ing, not only on the philosophy of diet, but on that 
of medication also. 

When any of the drugs above indicated are taken into the 
stomach in what are called medicinal doses, that is, in quanti- 
ties not so large as to cauterize, nor violently inflame, nor para- 
lyze the organ, the vital instincts at once perceive or feel the 
injurious impression ; they recognize the presence of an enemy, 



Theory of IsTittrition. 147 

Modus Operandi of Fattening Agents and Processes. 

and the energies of the whole system are concentrated on the 
part attacked. In this way the digestive function may be for a 
time morbidly excited or preternaturally energized, at the ex- 
pense, however, of all the other bodily functions. At the same 
time the depurating or excretory organs, being deprived of their 
due supply of nervous power or vital force, allow the excre- 
mentitious matters to accumulate ; and thus, for a longer or 
shorter period, the person or creature may grow fatter, and 
at the same time deteriorate in general health. 

If any further testimony is needed to establish the view of 
I have presented of nutrition, it may be derived from the well- 
known fact, that lean or thin persons are always more easily 
cured, either by natural or artificial methods, of the same fevers, 
inflammations, and of similar chronic diseases, than " fleshy" 
or fat people, and that thin persons will hold out longer when 
subjected to extreme cold, and endure longer when deprived 
of all food, than corpulent persons, as has been repeatedly ob- 
served in cases of shipwreck. In fact, excessive alimentation, 
or rather abnormal accumulation of adipose matter in the cellu- 
lar tissue is a common and prolific source of infirmities and 
diseases. 



CHAPTER VI. 

BEEAD AND BKEAD-MAKINQ. 

Different Kinds of Bread. — Bread has been proverbially 
called tbe " staff of life ;" and good bread has been truly regarded 
as the " perfection of cookery." That person or family who habit- 
ually eats good bread, ought never to complain much of indigestion ; 
in fact, poor bread is one of the principal causes of the dyspepsia 
which prevails almost everywhere among the agricultural popula- 
tion of this country. Those who appreciate good health, and un- 
derstand the relation of health to happiness, will bear with me if 
I dwell somewhat lengthily on this branch of our subject. 

All breads may be divided into domestic bread and baker^s bread. 
The principal difference is in the greater degree of fermentation to 
which the latter is subjected, and the alkaline matters which are 
generally employed by bakers to neutralize the acid created by ex- 
cessive fermentation. Either kinds of bread may be fermented — 
rendered light by means of yeast ; or raised — made light by means 
of acids and alkalies ; or unleaveiied — baked without leaven or 
risings of any kind. Yeast is, however, in general use in bread- 
making, very few bakers or private families making any other 
kind. It behooves, therefore, all bread-makers who employ a fer- 
ment^ to understand the nature of fermentation. 

Theory of Fermentation. — It may sound strangely to those 
who are accustomed to read and talk about good, sweet yeast, and 
beautifully light bread, to hear that fermentation itself is a rotting 
process, a decomposition, and hence destructive of certain proxi- 
mate elements of the substance subjected to its influence. We may 
as well understand, therefore, at once, that no kind of bread can 
be fermented without being to some extent injured ; and all bread- 
makers who employ yeast ought to know how to manage it so as 
to deteriorate the article as little as possible. 

Fermentation is a process involving a series of chemical changes, 
by which the organic or proximate elements of vegetable substances 



Bread and Bread-making 149 

Different Stages of Fermentation — A common Error. 

are reduced to their ultimate or chemical elements. Different 
stages of the process have received different appellationSj as panary, 
vinous^ acetous^ and putrefactive fermentation. 

Panary fermentation is the decomposition of the sugar or saccha- 
rine matter of the grain, and the recombination of its elements so 
as to produce alcohol and carbonic acid gas. Vinous fermentation 
is essentially the same thing, this term being applied to the decom- 
position of the saccharine matter of fruits. The alcohol produced 
in bread-making is mostly dissipated by the heat of the oven, the 
remainder evaporating within a few hours after it is taken from 
the oven ; and the carbonic acid gas, being retained by the tena- 
cious gluten, raises or puffs up the dough. 

If the dough is not thoroughly kneaded, good bread can never be 
made. Why ? If the yeast is not intimately and equally mixed 
with every particle of the meal or flour, the fermentation — the 
rotting, if you please — will be unequal, and some portions of the 
bread will be heavy and compact, while others will be light and 
spongy, and marked with open cavities. 

But when yeast is well mixed, the dough must be allowed to 
raise sufficiently, or it will be raw and clammy ; and yet if the fer- 
mentation is allowed to proceed too far, the starch and mucilage, 
as well as the sugar, are, to some extent, destroyed, and acetous 
acid or vinegar is formed, rendering the bread sour and disagree- 
able. This is the acetous stage of fermentation. 

But if the process of decomposition goes on still farther, the 
gluten is more or less destroyed, literally rotted, and imtrefactive 
fermentation exists, rendering the bread exceedingly dry, harsh, 
and unpalatable, especially after it is twelve or twenty-four hours 
old. 

These circumstances serve to show us that the proper manage- 
ment of yeast-bread requires not only careful attention, but also 
good judgment. A good bread-maker and bad housewife — I say 
nothing of vice versa — are, as might a priori be expected, seldom or 
never seen in the same person. 

It is a common error to regard bread as not over-fermented, be- 
cause it is not sensibly sour to the taste. Fermentation may be 
carried so far as to destroy the sweetness and richness of the loaf, 
and yet arrested by the heat of the oven just before any appreci- 



150 Hydeopathio Cook-Book. 

Test of good Bread — General Eules — Unleavened Bread. 

able acid is developed. And it is precisely here that the great ma- 
jority of domestic bread-makers fail. Bread is too generally pro- 
nounced good if it do not feel sticky and heavy on the one hand, 
nor taste sour on the other. But bread which is " very good" 
must, in addition to these negative qualities, possess the positive 
recommendation of being absolutely delicious to the senses of taste 
and smell. 

General Rules for Bread-making. — 1. Although a fair article 
of fermented bread can be baked in a common cook-stove or range, 
yet a brick oven is preferable. 2. The best ovens are constructed 
of an arch of brick, over which is a covering of ashes, and over 
this a covering of charcoal, with a finishing layer of bricks over all. 
This arrangement of non-conductors retains the heat so long, that 
cakes, pies, apples, custards, etc., can be baked after the bread. 
3. The fire should always be made nearly on the back side of the 
oven. 4. A new oven should be heated at least half of the day 
previous to baking in it, and the lid kept closed after the fire is out 
until heated for baking. 5. The oven must be heated until all the 
bricks look red, and are free from all black spots j but not hot 
enough to burn flour quickly when sprinkled on the bottom. 6. 
Wlienever bread looks porous and full of holes, it is ready for the 
oven. It will then exhale a brisk, pungent, lively, but not in the 
least degree acid, odor. 7. When bread becomes light enough be- 
fore the oven i^ ready, it should be kneaded a little, and then kept 
in a cool place. 8. When removed from the oven it should be 
taken out of the pans or basins, and placed endwise in a cool, well- 
ventilated place. 9. When the dough has been properly kneaded, 
it should be covered with a napkin or light woolen blanket, and 
kept at about summer temperature, 60° Fahr., until sufficiently 
light. 10. In very warm weather, the sponge should not stand 
over night, bvit be mixed in the morning early, and baked in the 
afternoon. 11. The process of fermentation is arrested at a tem- 
perature below 30° Fahr., proceeds slowly at 50°, moderately at 
60°, rapidly at 70°, and very rapidly at 80°. 

Unleavened Bread. — The best bread that ever was or ever 
Vfill be made is unquestionably that of coarse-ground, unbolted 



Bkead and Bke ad-making. 151 

Ancient "Ways of making Bread — Fermented Breads — Deterioration of Meak 

meal, mixed with pure water, and baked in any convenient way. 
The earliest bread-makers pounded the grain on a smooth stone, or 
in a mortar, mixed it with water into a dough, and then baked it in 
hot ashes, or before the fire. Various savage tribes in this and 
other countries have long made, and now make in a similar manner, 
an excellent and delicious corn-bread. The inhabitants of new 
countries, where flouring mills are not to be found, often, from ne- 
cessity, make good and wholesome bread in this way : An excellent 
and well-flavored article may be made from a mixture of wheaten 
and rye flour and Indian meal, in proportions to suit taste or con- 
venience, beat up with water or milk into a moderately stifi" dough, 
and baked for several hours is an old-fashioned iron baking-kettle. 
The New England women formerly made this bread in the 
evening, and covering the kettle with coals and hot ashes, allowed 
it to remain over night. 

For making unleavened bread, the grain should be carefully 
cleaned — washed, if necessary — and care should be taken to select 
that which is full and plump. When ground at an ordinary flour- 
ing-mill, the stones should be ^narp, so as to cut the grain into very 
fine particles. If ground by dull stones, the bran will be mashed 
ofi" in flakes or scales. The meal or flour should be fresh ground, 
and never kept a long time, as it deteriorates surely, though slowly, 
every day after being ground. 

Fermented Breads. — Bread raised by fermentation may be 
made of the flour or meal of various grains, or of various ad- 
mixtures of them. But w^heat, from its larger proportion of gluten, 
is superior to all other grains for this kind of bread. Rye contains 
considerable gluten, and hence a very fair fermented bread can 
be made of it. Corn contains so little gluten that, though ex- 
cellent for unleavened bread, it will not make good raised bread 
alone. Wheat and Indian, or wheat, rye and Indian, in various 
combinations, can, however, be made into very good fermented 
bread. 

Whether fermented bread be made of unbolted meal, or of fine 
or superfine flour, it requires essentially the same management. 
Unbolted flour, however, requires, on account of the swelling 
property of the bran, a somewhat thinner or &ofter sponge, and it 



152 Htdkopathic Cook-Book. 

Kaised Bread as compared with Fermented— Acids and Alkalies. 

should be baked about one half longer than bread made of better 
flour. 

Raised Bread. — Although bread is raised also by fermentation, 
the term " raised bread" technically applies to that which is ren- 
dered light or puffed up by means of acids and alkalies instead 
of yeast. Whether raised or fermented bread is the best or worst, 
depends very much on the manner in which the bread-making pro- 
cess is managed. It is a choice of evils. 

In making unfermented raised bread, the bicarbonate or sesqui- 
cai-bonate of soda and hydrochloric or muriatic acid are employed, 
in proportion of forty grains of the alkali to fifty drops of the acid. 
Various other alkalies have been more or less employed, but the 
above are probably the least objectionable. The alkali is dis- 
solved and diffused through the mass of dough, and then the acid 
is diluted and worked in as rapidly as possible. The raising or 
puffing-up material is the same as when ferment or yeast is em- 
ployed ; for the hydrochloric acid combines with the soda of the 
bicarbonate, forming common salt — hydrochlorate of soda — and 
leaves the carbonic acid gas free to puff up the dough. 

The evil, then, with raised bread, is the presence of common salt ; 
and that of fermented bread is the destruction of the sugar, one of 
the proximate elements of the grain. Which is the worst ? Since 
the publication of the Hydropathic Encyclopedia I have given 
much attention to this question, but do not find any cause to alter 
or modify the opinion therein expressed. I will therefore quote : 

" Raised bread, or bread made light by acids and alkalies, is used 
to some extent in this country and in England. It has been thought 
by some that this method of bread-making was an improvement on 
the fermenting process; but in numerous experiments, I could 
never succeed as well with acids and alkalies as with yeast ; nor 
do I conceive the plan to be as healthful, provided both processes 
are managed in the best possible way. It is true that a part of the 
sugar is destroyed by fermentation, and it is true that if the acid 
and alkali usually employed exactly neutralize each other, there 
is no extraneous ingredient formed and retained in the bread except 
common salt, while all the natural properties of the grain are left 
unchanged 



Bkead and Bread-making. 153 

Common Salt — ^Digestibility of Breads — Causes explained. 

" Those who esteem common salt an alimentary article, will 
reasonably presume that this bread is better than fermented ; and 
those who aad a large quantity of salt to their fermented bread, as 
indeed most commercial and public bakers do, will have an addi- 
tional argument in favor of the raised as compared with the fei-- 
mented bread. Besides, the raised bread has the actual advantages 
that it may be put into the oven as soon as mixed, and eaten when 
recently from the oven, without detriment, which is not the case 
with the fermented, although most persons do eat this also fresh 
from the oven, and take the consequences. 

" But I do not regard salt as an aliment ; in fact, I consider breada 
of all kinds essentially deteriorated, not only in flavor and consis- 
tence, but in physiological properties, by the admixture of salt in 
any quantity. It is the very last place where salt should be used, 
if employed at all. All the cereal grains, wheat especially, con- 
tain considerable quantities, comparatively, of earthy phosphates, 
principally phosphate of lime, which is appropriate for the sus- 
tenance of the bony structure ; but any additional and unnecessary 
admixture of saline or earthy matter in those aliments which are 
already specially furnished with saline and earthy materials, must 
be the very worst use we can make of them. If salt must be taken, 
let it be with those articles of food which contain the least instead 
of the greatest proportions of saline and earthy matters, as grapes, 
apples, cucumbers, milk, and flesh-meats." 

Digestibility of Breads. — It is a remarkable fact, that un- 
fermented bread if well made, will "sit on the stomach," even 
with invalids, more easily than the best fermented bread, though 
the latter may be much lighter and more friable. It is well known 
— although the fact is commonly disregarded in practice — that leav- 
ened bread fresh from the oven is very diflScult of digestion, and 
exceedingly obnoxious to the digestive organs. The reason of this 
has not been generally understood. 

It is, in my judgment, owing to three causes. 1. The presence of 
the small quantity of alcohol which has not been wholly dissipated 
by the heat of the oven. 2. The presence of a considerable quan- 
tity of carbonic acid gas, which gradually escapes as the bread be- 
comes stale. 3. ThQ antiseptic effect which alcohol has imparted 



154 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Antiseptics — Vinegar — Alcohol — Spirits — Salt — Acids and Alkalies. 

to the constituent elements of the bread. Alcohol, though power- 
fully destructive to living matter, is preservative of dead matter. 
The explanation is, that all living matter, wrhile vital, is under- 
going continual transformations ; and to be preserved alive, must 
be kept in a condition or state of perpetual change. But the pres- 
ervation of dead matter implies that it be kept in a fixed and un- 
changeable chemical state, its elements being prevented from decom- 
positions or recombinations. It is on this principle that all antiseptics 
operate. Thus vinegar, alcohol, spirits, common salt, solutions of 
arsenic, corrosive sublimate, etc., which preserve fruits, seeds, and 
animal and vegetable substances so long unchanged, totally unfi* 
them for food, while they are of themselves absolute poisons. 

All bread, whether raised, fermented, or unleavened, to be di • 
gested without undue " wear and tear" of the digestive apparatus, 
must be light, dry, friable, and so porous as readily to absorb 
water. 

Bread is also comparatively indigestible if underbaked or over- 
baked. It is a common error that bread can hardly be overdone in 
baking. The truth is, that its dietetic nature and its digestibility 
begin to deteriorate, the moment it is fairly cooked. "We should, 
therefore, be just as cautious to take it from the oven as soon 
as baked sufficiently, as we are to have it remain until well 
done. Those who have never paid attention to this matter, 
are little aware how much the flavor and wholesomeness of 
bread is improved by baking it just enough, yet not a moment too 
long. 

When the crusts of loaf-bread are thick and hard, it is custom- 
ary to wi-ap the loaf, fresh from the oven, in several folds of wet 
cloth, to soften it. But this practice is objectionable for the reason 
that it prevents the free escape of the alcohol and carbonic acid gas, 
produced by fermentation, thus rendering the bread also more diffi- 
cult of digestion. 

The existence of all saline and alkaline matters which have 
been added to the flour by the cook — common, or table salt not 
excepted — renders it to some extent less digestible. The antisep- 
tic property of salt accounts for its injurious effects, and the use 
of alkalies is one of the most prolific sources of weak stomachs, 
ulcerated bowels, sore throats, cankered mouths, etc. 



Bread and BKEAD-MAKiNa. 155 

Adulterations of Flour — Breaa-making Processes — Setting the Sponge. 

Quality of Flour and Meal. — Unless the grain is well clean- 
ed before it is ground, we can not have the most delicious bread. 
There is, too, a great difference between fresh-ground and stale 
flour, the former making incomparal ly richer, sweeter bread. Those 
who " eat to live," or to enjoy, had better, therefore, look well to 
the kind of grain, to its being thoroughly c/ea«ea{ from dust, cockle, 
smut, sand, chaff, etc., and to its being ground but a short time be- 
fore using. 

Frauds and adulterations are more generally perpetrated in ar- 
ticles of food, di-ink. and medicine, probably, than in relation to all 
other articles of commerce put together. The wheat-meal or Gra- 
ham flour in market, is not unfrequently an admixture of " shorts" 
or •' middlings," with old, stale, soured, or damaged fine flour; and 
fine flour is sometimes — more especially in European markets — 
advxlterated with whiting^ ground stones, bone dust, and plaster of 
Paris. Wliiting can be detected by dipping the ends of the thumb 
and fore-finger in sweet-oil, and rubbing the flour between them, 
when, if this ingredient be present, it becomes sticky like putty, 
and remains white ; whereas pure flour when so rubbed becomes 
very dark colored, but not sticky. Stone-dust, or plaster of Paris, 
may be detected by a drop or two of lemon-juice or vinegar ; if 
either be present effervescence will take place. This test will also 
detect chalk, magnesia, or any other alkali. 

Bread-making. — The following proportions and processes ap- 
plicable, with slight modifications, to all kinds of bread, may as 
well be grouped together here, to avoid frequent repetitions. 

1. One quart of " wetting," whether of milk or water, is suffi- 
cient for about five quarts of flour or meal. 

2. Ten quarts of flour or meal are about the quantity for an or- 
dinary family baking, and will make four loaves of about three 
and a half pounds each. 

3. The temperature of the water when mixed with the flour or 
meal should be about blood-warm. 

4. When yeast is used, it should be perfectly mixed or diluted 
with milk -warm water, and well stirred before it is put into the 
floul. 

5. " Setting the Sp-^nge'' is a useful precaution against bad yeast, 



156 Hydkopathic Cook-Book. 

Three Essentials in Bread-making— QuantUy of Yeast. 

as, if it does not rise well, the batter may te removed without 
wasting much of the flour. It is done as follows : Make a deep 
round hole in the middle of the flour or meal, pour in the yeast ; 
then, with a spoon, stir into the liquid as much flour as will make 
it a thin batter ; and finally sprinkle this over with dry flour or 
meal until it is entirely covered. The pan or trough is then to be 
covered with a warm cloth and set in a warm place — by the fire 
in the winter, and where the sun shines, when practicable, in 
summer. When the yeast is fresh and sweet, equally good bread 
may be made without setting the sponge ; but most bread-makers 
think the sponge facilitates the subsequent kneading. 

6. When the sponge is made, it should stand until the batter has 
swelled and risen so as to form cracks in the covering of the flour; 
and then the mass should be immediately formed into dough, by 
mixing in gradually as much warm water as may be necessary. 
It must then be thoroughly kneaded — molded over and over with the 
clenched hands — till it becomes so smooth, light, and stiff", that not 
a particle will adhere to the hands. The dough is next to be made 
into a lump in the middle of the vessel, dusted over with flour to 
prevent adhesion, covered with a warm cloth, and kept near the 
fii'e about «ne hour, or until it has become sufficiently light. Lastly, 
it is to be made into separate lumps, molded on pasteboard, form- 
ed into loaves, and placed immediately in the oven. 

The Three Essentials. — All bread-makers agree that three 
things must be exactly right, or good bread can not be made — tht 
quality of the yeast — it must be sweet and lively ; the extent or de- 
gree of fermentation — just enough and none too much ; and the heat 
of the oven — the bread must be well cooked, but not at all burned. 
A failure in either particular will result in a poor article of bread. 
It is impossible, however, to give more precise rules, for after all is 
said that can be, something must be left to the careful observation 
and judgment of the cook. Practice here will make perfect ; and no 
Dread-maker who duly estimates the importance of good bread, will 
be long in getting the exact tact in the management of all these 
particulars. 

But another essential, not less important than either of the pre- 
eeding, may be mentioned, viz., the quantity of the yeast. Many a 



T3eead and Bread-making 157 

Brewer'3 Yeast Objectionable — Making the Original Ferment 

loaf of bread is spoiled or seriously damaged by using too much. 
The strength of yeast may vary considerably, and its fermenting 
property deteriorate with age ; but of the best fresh hop-yeast, 
about one large tablespoonful is the proper quantity for an ordinary 
baker's loaf. If the yeast is old, a larger quantity will be required, 
but the bread will not be as good. This fourth essential^ however, 
like the others, can be perfected only by experience. 

Ferment, Leaven, or Yeast. — I find that the majority of cook- 
books recommend distillery or brewer's yeast for domestic bread- 
making, because it is stronger. It is precisely for this reason that 
I object to it. I have never seen a good loaf where it was used, 
nor do I think such an article will ever be seen. When brewer's 
yeast is employed, the fermentation is so rapid, that after the loaf 
appears to be light enough, before the process is arrested in the 
ordinary method of management, some of the constituents of the 
flour or meal — all of the sugar, probably, and a part of the starch 
and gluten — will be chemically destroyed, rendering the bread of a 
strong, harsh, and bitterish taste. To senses of smell and taste 
as susceptible as all senses ought to be, such bread will also impart 
an impression of piitrescency or rottenness, analogous to that which 
is always disagreeably perceptible from the fermenting vats and 
slop-tubs of a distillery. 

Fresh hop-yeast is probably the very best ferment we can em- 
ploy in the making of leavened bread ; but as a good article of 
leaven, comparatively, can be produced in various ways, and as it 
may suit the convenience of all to have a variety of recipes, the 
following formularies are therefore given, with which the second 
part of this work may as well commence. . 

1, Original Ferment or Yeast. 

Original ferment may be procured, or yeast made without using 
other yeast, by subjecting any kind of flour or meal to fermenta- 
tion. Wheaten flour or meal is generally employed ; mix the flour 
f r meal with water or milk into a batter or thin dough, and let it 
stand exposed to the temperature of about summer heat — 66° to 
70^. Fahr. — until it "rises" or ferments. It will then communi- 
cate the fermenting preperty to any other material capable of un- 



158 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Salt Unnecessary — Hop-yeast — Potato-yeast — MUk Risings. 

dergoing a similar process. The addition of molasses or mashed 
potatoes will accelerate the process. Most persons add salt also, 
and many think it indispensable ; but it is wholly unnecessary so 
far as the formation of ferment is concerned. When the ferment 
or yeast has been once produced, a supply can be subsequently ob- 
tained much more easily, by the addition of a small quantity to the 
fermenting material. 

2. Hop- YEAST. 

Hop-yeast may be most conveniently made in the following 
manner : Boil a double handful of hops in a gallon of pure soft 
•water for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain oiF the liquor while 
scalding hot; stir in wheat-meal or flour till a thick batter is 
formed ; let it stand till it becomes about blood-warm ; add a pint 
of good, lively, fresh yeast, and stir it well ; then let it stand in a 
place where it will keep at the temperature of about 70® Fahr., 
till it becomes perfectly light. This yeast will keep from one to 
two weeks, if corked tight in a clean earthen jug, and kept in a 
cool cellar. 

3. Potato-yeast. 

Yeast made of potatoes is a favorite with some domestic bread- 
makers, and it is certain that very good bread can be made with it. 
It will not keep as long as the hop-yeast, but has the advantages 
of rising quicker, while it will not impart the sharp, harsh taste to 
bread that hop-yeast does when not well managed. Mash half a 
dozen peeled and boiled potatoes ; mix in a handful of wheaten 
flour or meal, and, after putting it through a colander, add hot water 
until it becomes a batter. When blood- warm, stir in a teacupful 
of baker's yeast, or hop-yeast, which is the same thing. When suf- 
ficiently raised, cork it tight and keep in a cool place. It is not 
quite as strong as the hop-yeast, and may be used more freely. 

4. Milk Risings. 

Milk-yeast, or " risings," as this kind of ferment is sometimes 
called, is made by mixing two tablespoonfuls of flour or meal with 
a quart of new milk, and keeping the preparation at about or a 
little below blood-heat for an hour or two. It requires nearly twice 



Bread akd Bread-making. 159 

Teast Cakes— Hard Flour Teast — Ferment without Yeast 

as much of this as of the ordinary hop-yeast for a loaf of bread. 
It makes an agreeable bread for those who are fond of milk, but in 
warm weather it soon spoils. It should, therefore, be eaten tha 
next day after it is made. 

5. Yeast Cakes. 

These may be kept for weeks or months, and are made by stir- 
ring good, light, fresh yeast into Indian meal, until a fine dough is 
formed ; this is then made into thin cakes and perfectly dried. 
They require to be dried very soon after being mixed, or the bread 
raised with them will have a musty, acrid flavor. It is best to 
dry them by exposure to a current of warm, dry air, or what is 
commonly called a drying wind. Sunlight or fire seems to impair 
their properties. Some persons add a little rye-meal, to make the 
dough more adhesive. This hard yeast requires to be kept in a 
cool, dry atmosphere. One of the cakes, an inch thick, two inches 
wide, and three inches long, is sufficient for four quarts of flour or 
meal. They may be soaked in milk or water till completely dis- 
solved, and then used like the fluid yeast. 

6. Yeast-rubs. 
Hard flour-yeast, or rubs, is preferred by some to the yeast-cakes. 
In making them, the yeast is mixed with wheat-meal or flour, so as 
to be formed into hard lumps ; these are then dried in a warm 
place, without being exposed to the sun. The finer particles should 
be used first, and the larger lumps put into a bag and hung in a 
dry, cool place. Probably the superiority of these " rubs" over the 
"cakes" is owing to their drying more rapidly, and thus sooner 
checking the progress of fermentation. Half a pint of them is 
eufficient for three quarts of flour. It is usual to let them soak 
from noon till night, on the day preceding that for wetting up the 
bread. 

7. Ferment without Yeast. 

The following method for making yeast whenever wanted, is 

very convenient for those who do not keep yeast on hand. Boil 

half an ounce of hops and the slices of one good rich apple in a 

quart of water twenty minutes ; strain ofl" the liquid ; add to it 



160 Hydeopathio Cook-Book. 

Flour-yeast — Teast of Dried Peas — Unleavened Bread. 

four spoonfuls of treacle or molasses, and then stir in three quar- 
ters of a pound of flour, or sufficient to make the consistency of a 
thin batter ; cover lightly, and set the preparation in a moderately 
warm place, till fermentation takes place, which will be in a few 
hours. It may then be mixed with the flour, and the bread made 
in the usual way. About double the quantity is required as of the 
common hop-yeast (No. 2). 

8. Flour-yeast. 

Another convenient method for obtaining fresh yeast, very simi- 
lar to that of No. Ij is the following, which is copied essentially 
from the " Vegetarian Cookery." Boil half a pound of flour and 
two ounces of brown sugar in one gallon of water for an hour ; 
when milk- warm, put in stone bottles and cork close. It will be 
ready for use in twenty-four hours. Half a pint of this Avill be 
suflicient for ten pounds of bread. 

9. Yeast of Dried Peas. 

A new and very convenient method of making leaven is the fol- 
lowing. Take a large teacupful of split and dried peas ; put 
them in a pint of boiling water ; cover them closely to exclude the 
air ; place them by the side of the fire for twenty-four hours, when 
it should have a fine froth on the top. A tablespoonful of the 
liquid will raise one pound of flour. 

10. Unleavened Bread. 

Mix unbolted wheat-meal (Graham flour), or three parts o» 
wheat-meal and one of Indian-meal (coarse ground), with water 
sufficient to form a middling sliff" dough. Some prefer hot water to 
"scald" the meal. Roll or mold the dough into a thin cake, not 
more than half or three quarters of an inch in thickness, and bake 
immediately in a stove or before the fire. This bread-cake will be 
rather soft, but very sweet and perfectly wholesome. It may also 
be molded into loaves of rather small size, and baked in the oven 
or in the old-fashioned baking kettles, or cooked under hot ashes, 
after the manner of roasting potatoes. 

This kind of bread may be made in the same way, of different 
proportions of rye and Indian, or of wheat, rye, and Indian. 



Bread and Bread-making. 161 

Fermented Bread— Eaised Bread — Proportions of Acid and Allcali. 

Fine flour with equal parts of Indian or of rye and Indian, makes 
a fair article of unleavened bread. 

11. Fermented Bread. 

Good leavened bread may be made with either fine or coarse 
wheaten flour or meal, or of either of these vnih various admix- 
tures of rye or Indian, or both ; also with either or all of the above, 
and various proportions of apples, pears, pumpkins, potatoes, po- 
tato flour, etc. A wooden bowl or well-glazed earthen pan, large 
enough to hold double the quantity of flour to be used, is the most 
convenient kneading vessel. To ten quarts of flour or meal add 
about three gills of hop-yeast, or a pint of potato-yeast ; the fer- 
mentation must be carefully watched, and when sufficiently raised, 
if the oven is not then ready, it must be molded into loaves and 
kept cool until put in the oven. 

12. Raised Bread. 

Soda, magnesia, saleratus, pearlash, and even ammonia and 
lime, have been used as alkalies, and vinegar, sour milk, lemon 
juice, tartaric acid, ci'eam of tartar, and muriatic or hydrochloric 
acid have been employed as acids, in the manufacture of raised 
bread without fermentation. So far as healthfulness is concerned, 
there is little to choose between bicarbonate of soda with sour milk, 
or this alkali with hydrochloric acid. The next best selection is 
tartaric acid and the bicarbonate of soda ; and next in order, cream 
of tartar and the bicarbonate of soda. Cream of tartar is, how- 
ever, very liable to adulteration by.the druggists or manufacturers. 
Saleratus and pearlash are very pernicious articles. 

When sour milk and soda are used, the quantity of the soda must 
be somewhat proportioned to the milk ; the more acid or sour the 
milk, the more of the alkali will be necessary. The point in prac- 
tice is to have one exactly neutralize the other, so that the bread 
will neither taste '' ashy" or caustic, nor sharp and tart. As a 
general rule, one teaspoonful — sixty grains or a drachm — of bi- 
carbonate of soda, known also as supercarbonate and sesquicar- 
bonate of soda, is sufficient for a pint of sour milk. When the 
bicarbonate of soda and muriatic acid are employed, forty grains 
of the former will neutralize fifty drops of tke latter. If tartaric 



162 Htdeopathio Cook-Book. 

Management of Acids and Alkalies — Wheat-meal Bread. 

acid be employed, one teaspoonful will be sufficient for one and a 
quarter teaspoonfuls of the alkali. 

But whatsoever materials are employed, they must be managed 
in the same way. The alkali must be dissolved and thoroughly 
diffused through the whole mass of flour, and when wetted to the 
condition of a rather stiff sponge, the acid, previously diluted, must 
be added, and then more flour added, and the acid stirred through 
the whole with all possible expedition. The more rapidly the acid 
is diffused through the mass in this way, the lighter will be the 
loaf, as the carbonic acid gas evolved by the combination of an 
acid with the base of the carbonate, is every moment escaping after 
the acid and alkali are brought into contact. 

It is important, too, that bread made in this way be put in the 
oven the moment it is mixed. If allowed to stand only a short 
time before being placed in the oven, as has often happened with 
those who, not being theoretical chemists, have undertaken to 
manage acids and alkalies, it may come out heavy, compact, and 
" soggy." 

It requires baking about an hour, the same length of time as the 
fermented fine flour bread. 

13. Wheat-meal Bread — Graham Bread. 

In every cook-book I have examined, and in all the medico-die- 
tetical works I have consulted, I find saleratus or pearlash, and salt 
always in the recipe for making what those books call hrown^ dys- 
pepsia^ or Graham bread. Those two drugs ought always to be 
left out. Molasses or brown sugar is also a fixture in the ordinary 
receipt books, and as a small quantity — a tablespoonful to a com- 
mon loaf — is not harmful, the saccharine element may be left to 
taste. Make the sponge of unbolted wheat-meal in the ordinary 
way, with either hop or potato yeast, but mix it rather thin. Be 
■ Bure and mold the loaves as soon as it becomes light, as the un- 
bolted flour runs into the acetous fermentation much more rapidly 
than the bolted or superfine flour, and bake an hour and a quarter 
or an hour and a half, according to the size of the loaf. 



Bread and Bread-making. 163 

Potato, Eye and Indiau, Apple, Pumpkin, and Eice Bread. 



14. Potato Bread. 

Boil and peel a dozen mealy potatoes ; rub them through a sieve ; 
mix them thoroughly with twice the quantity of flour or meal ; 
add sufficient water to make a dough of the ordinary consistence ; 
ferment in the usual way with hop, potato, or pea yeast, and bake 
in a rather hot oven. 

15. Rye and Indian Bread. 

Rye and corn may be mixed in any proportions, to suit the taste or 
fancy. The practical rule to observe in making it is, that when 
the proportion of rye is the largest, the dough must be stiff and 
molded into loaves ; but when the proportion of corn is the largest, 
the dough should be made soft, and baked in deep earthen or tin 
vessels. The greater the proportion of Indian or corn meal, also, 
the longer the bread requires baking. If it is half or two thirds 
Indian, it will need to be baked from two to three hours. 

The best way to mix the dough is to pour boiling water over the 
Indian, and stir it till the whole is thoroughly wet ; and when 
about milk-warm, add the rye-meal or flour, with the yeast, and 
as much more warm, but not hot water, as may be necessary. 

16. Apple Bread. 

Boil to a pulp one dozen well flavored, sweet, or moderately tart 
apples ; mix the fruit with tvvice its quantity of wheaten flour or 
meal ; ferment and bake in the usual manner. This bread is very 
light, porous, and palatable. 

17. Pumpkin Bread. 

Stew and strain the pumpkin, stiffen it with a little Indian-meal, 
and then add as much more wheaten flour, with the necessary 
quantity of potato-yeast; bake two hours. This is an excellent 
and wholesome bread. 

18. Rice Bread. 

To one pint of rice boiled soft and two quarts of wheat-meal 
add a handful of Indian ; mix with milk to make it mold like 
wheat-bread, and ferment with yeast. 



164 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Moist Eice, Sweet Brown, Currant, and Scalded Bread, 



19. Moist Rice Bread. 

Mix a pint and a half of ground rice with three quarts of cold 
milk and water, which will reduce it to a thin gruel ; boil three 
minutes ; then stir in wheat-meal till it becomes too stiff to stir 
with a spoon ; when blood-warm add two gills of yeast ; when 
light, bake about one hour. 

20. Sweet Brown Bread. 

Take one quart of rye-flour ; two quarts of coarse Indian-meal ; 
one pint of wheat-meal — all of which must be very fresh ; half a 
teacupful of molasses or brown sugar ; one gill of potato-yeast. 
Mingle the ingredients into as stiff a dough as can be stiired with a 
spoon, using warm water for wetting. Let it rise several hours, or 
over night ; then put it in a large deep pan, and bake five or six 
hours. This would be a much more wholesome " wedding cake" 
than we are accustomed to have proffered us, on certain interesting 
occasions. 

21. Currant Bread. 

Take three pounds of flour ; one pound of raisins ; two pounds 
of currants ; one pint and a half of new milk ; and one gill of 
yeast. Warm the milk, and mix it with the flour and yeast ; cover 
with a cloth, and set it by the fire. When risen sufficiently, add the 
fruits and mold it ; then put it into a baking tin or deep dish, 
rubbed with sweet-oil or dusted with flour • after it has risen for 
half an hour longer, bake in a moderately hot oven. 

22. Scalded Bread. 

Stir as much boiling water as will make a stiff paste into one 
third the quantity of unbolted flour intended to be used; add the 
yeast, and "set the sponge" with a little lukewarm water. When 
it has risen quite light, and the scalded flour has become cold, add 
the remaining flour, and knead well together; let it rise again; 
put it in a tin, and bake in a quick oven till half done ; then re- 
move it to the upper part of the oven, where it should remain sev- 
eral hours — the oven being now moderately cool. It should be kept 
in a cool, dry place a day or two before it is cut. 



CHAPTER VII. 

OAKES AND BISCUITS. 

23. Wheat-meal Crackers. 
Mix fresh.- ground wheat-meal with pure soft water into a stiff 
dough. Roll out and cut the mass into thin crackers, not quite as 
thick as the Boston cracker of the shops, but larger in circum- 
ference, and bake in a brick oven. Be very cautious and not over- 
cook or burn them. 

24. Unleavened Bread Cakes. 
Wet wheat-meal with pure water into a rather thin dough \ or, 
if preferred, scald the meal by stirring with boiling water ) roll it 
as thin as for crackers ; cut into pieces about two inches square, 
and bake in a range, oven, stove, or before the fire. 

25. Wheat-meal Wafers. 

Mix the unbolted flour as above (No. 24), »nd form the dough 
into small round cakes, not more than one sixth of an inch in 
thickness. Bake as above. (Nos. 23, 24, and 25 are all excel- 
lent for weak, sour stomach, constipation, worms^bilious affec- 
tions, etc.) 

26. Indian-meal Cake — Johnny Cake. 
Take coarse-ground but fresh Indian-meal ; scald it by stirring 
in boiling water until a stiff dough is formed ; then mold it into 
a cake three fourths of an inch in thickness, and bake on a board 
oefore the fire, or in a stove or range. This is excellent for chil- 
dren, with or without a little milk or molasses. 

27. Raised Indian Cake. 
Take one quart of sour milk or buttermilk ; two teaspoonfuls 
of bicarbonate of soda ; four ounces of brown sugar, or a gill of 



166 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Com and Cream Cakes — Molasses Cakes — Wheat-meal Sweet Cake. 

molasses ; coarse Indian-meal a sufficient quantity. Stir the milk, 
boiling hot, with the meal until a stiff batter is formed ; add 
the sugar or molasses ; then the soda, previously dissolved ; after 
which, mix in meal enough to form a dough, as rapidly as possible, 
and bake in shallow pans. 

28. Rich Corn Cake. 

Take one quart coarse white Tndian-meal ; three pints of scalded 
milk cooled ; a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda ; half a teacup 
of sugar ', and half a dozen eggs well beaten. Mix all together, 
and bake in pans one hour. This is a good substitute for the baker's 
'•'sponge-cake," provided folks will have such things. 

29. Corn Cream Cake. 

Take a pint of thick, sour, but not very old cream ; one quart of 
milk or buttermilk ; yellow-corn meal sufficient to thicken to the 
consistency of pound cake ; and bicarbonate of soda enough to 
sweeten the cream ; add the soda to the cream ; stir in the 
meal J put it in floured pans, an inch thick, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

N. B. A quick oven is so hot that one can count moderately only 
twenty, while holding the hand in it ; and a slow oven allows one 
to count thirty. 

30. Molasses Cakes. 

Take equE^parts of Graham flour and fine flour , wet up the 
flour with wlmn milk and water- sweeten with sirup or New 
Orleans molasses : raise with hop, potato, or pea yeast ; form into 
thin cakes, and bake in a stove or oven. They should not be eaten 
till several hours after coming from the oven. 

31. Wheat-meal Sweet Cake. 

Take of unbolted wheaten flour one quart ; sweet cream two 
gills ] sour milk two gills ; bicarbonate of soda one teaspoonful ; 
and best brown sugar one teacupful. Mix a part of the flour with 
the cream, milk, and sugar ; then add the soda, dissolved in a little 
water, and stir in rapidly the remainder of the flour. Bake in 
shallow pans in a quick oven. 



Cakes and Biscuits. 167 

Indian Slappers — Yarious Griddle Cakes — Oatmeal Cake. 



32. Indian Slappers. 

Take one quart of Indian-meal ; two quarts of milk ; and four 
eggs. Beat the eggs; mix them with the milk; stir in the meal, 
and bake on a griddle like buckwheat cakes. 

33. Wheat-meal Griddle Cakes. 

Wet up unbolted or Graham flour, with water or sweet milk, 
into a batter, and add a little molasses. It may then be raised 
with yeast, or with tartaric acid and supercarbonate of soda, and 
baked on a soap-stone griddle without grease. 

34. Buckwheat Griddle Cakes. 

Make one quart of flour into a thin batter with lukewarm wa- 
ter ; add a handful of Indian-meal, and half a teacupful of yeast. 
Keep it in a warm place over night, and bake in the morning. 

35. Rice Griddle Cakes. 

Soak over night one quart of cold^ boiled head rice, in four or five 
gills of milk or water ; the next moniing add one quart of milk, 
and stir in nearly as much flour, and two eggs well beaten. Bake 
on a soap-stone griddle. Fine bread crumbs or rusked bread, 
mixed with the rice, improve this cake. 

36. Wheat and Indian Griddle Cakes. 

These are made, in all respects, like No. 33, except that the 
meal is composed of equal parts of wheat and Indian. Those who 
have to use iron griddles, can prevent the batter from adhering by 
dusting them with flour ; olive oil is much better than butter for the 
same purpose. 

37. Oatmeal Cake. 

Mix fine oatmeal into a stifi" dough with milk-warm water; roll 
it to the thinness almost of a wafer ; bake on a griddle or iron 
plate placed over a slow fire for three or four minutes ; then place 
it on edge before the fire to harden. This will be good for months, 
if kept in a dry place. Like the wheat-meal or hard crackers, it is 
an excellent article to exercise too sedentary teeth upon. 



168 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Potato Cake, and EoUs — Indian Pancakes — Biscuits. 

38. Potato Cake. 

Boil good, mealy potatoes, and when well dried mash them up 
with a little olive oil or sweet cream, and a proper quantity of 
yeast, and as much meal or flour as will make the whole into the 
consistency of dough ; roll it into cakes, and when sufficiently light, 
bake in a moderate oven. 

39. Flour and Potato Rolls. 

Take one pound of potatoes, one pound and a half of flour, two 
ounces of sweet cream, three gills of milk, and a small quantity 
of yeast. Boil and dry the potatoes ; mix them with the cream, 
and half a pint of milk ; then rub them through a wire sieve into 
the flour. Mix the remainder of the warm milk with the yeast 
and add the mixture to the flour. Let the dough rise before the fire ; 
then make into rolls of any convenient size, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

40. Indian Pancakes — Slapjacks. 

To one pint of coarse sifted Indian-meal add a small teacupful 
of fine wheaten flour ; stir them into a quart of new milk, with three 
or four beaten eggs. Bake on a griddle. These cakes should not 
be eaten with melted butter : but instead of this, fruit sauce or a 
little milk may be used as a seasoning. 

41. Sour Milk Biscuit. 

Take two quarts of sour milk or butter-milk, and three tea- 
spoonsful of bicarbonate of soda, dissolved in hot water. Mix the 
milk with sufficient flour (fine or coarse as preferred), to make a 
dough nearly stifl" enough to roll ; then add the soda and as much 
more flour as necessary ; mold and hake quickly. 

42. Shortened Biscuit. 

Take wheaten flour (either Graham or fine as preferred), sweet 
cream, olive oil, or newly-churned butter without salt, and warm 
milk and water — equal parts. Mix into a thin batter; add hop or 
potato-yeast, and thicken with flour or meal. When light enough, 
bake in a slow oven. 



Cake3 and Biscuits. 169 

Drop Cakes — Muflans — Crumpets — Milk Biscuit. 



43. Rye Drop Cake. 

Take one pint of sweet milk, two eggs, and a tablespoonful 
of sugar. Stir in rye-flour till about the consistency of pancakes, 
and bake in floured or oiled cups or saucers, half an hour. 

44. Wheat-meal Drop Cake. 

Take one pint of milk, two spoonsful of cream, two eggs, and 
one spoonful of molasses or brown sugar. Mix with these mate- 
rials wheat-meal enough to make a thick batter. Drop on oiled 
or floured tins, and bake twenty minutes. 

45. Corn-meal Muffins. 

Take one quart of coarse ground and sifted Indian-meal, two 
spoonsful of sweet cream, one quart of milk, one spoonful of 
molasses, and half a teacupful of hop or potato-yeast. Make 
into a thin dough ; let it rise four or five hours ; bake one hour in 
muffin rings, or in shallow pans. 

Wheat-meal will make excellent muffins managed in the same 
way. 

46. Hydropathic Crumpets. 

Mix a quart of warm milk, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a gill 
of potato-yeast, with flour or meal enough to make a rather thin 
batter. When light, add a teacupful of sweet cream ; then let it 
rise about twenty minutes, and bake it as muffins, or in cups. 

47. CocoANUT Drops. 

Take equal parts of grated cocoanut and sifted sugar, and the 
whites of eggs ; beat to a stiff froth, enough to wet the whole to a 
stiff batter. Bake iu drops the size of a penny, on a griddle or 
oiled plates. 

48. Milk Biscuit. 

Take one pound of flour or meal, three gills of milk, and a large 
tablespoonful of yeast. Mix well the dough into small balls, and 
when risen sufficiently, bake in a quick oven. 

8 



lYO Htdkopathic Cook-Book. 

Water-Cure Waffles — Uncooked Breads and Cakes. 

49. Water-Cure Waffles. 

Mix one quart of fresh wheat-meal with a sufficient quantity 
of cold milk to make a thick batter ; then add four beaten ey>gs, 
half a teacupful of sweet cream, or one ounce of fresh olive oil, a 
little sugar, and bake in a quick oven. 

50. Uncooked Bread Cake. 

For this, and the two following recipes, I am indebted to Miss E. 
M. French, of New London, who has experimented considerably 
in preparing food without cooking. The idea is sufficiently radical ; 
but I doubt not the time- will come when methods for preparing 
various articles of food with very little cooking, if not without any, 
will be mixch more highly appreciated than can be expected at 
present. 

Mix with half a pound of figs sufficient ground wheat — coarse 
Graham flour — to form a dough like well-kneaded bread. The figs 
should be softened a little with hot water, which will also cleanse 
them, when they will readily yield to the kneading process. No 
water is required except what is necessary to soften the figs. The 
cake or bread may be rolled or cut in the form of biscuit. It should 
be made fresh whenever wanted for eating. 

51. Unbaked Bread Cake. 

In this kind of bread or cake the ingredients are cooked before 
mixing, but not subsequently. 

To one quart of ground parched corn add a teacupful of boiled 
rice ; mix the ingredients well, and form a loaf by placing them in 
a pan wet with cold water. It may, perhaps, be improved by add- 
ing uncooked rice flour to form the loaf, when it need not be placed 
in the pan, but may be rolled or cut in the form of biscuit. 

52. Uncooked Fruit Cake. 

To one quart of ground wheat add one large grated cocoanut 
with its milk. Drop half a pound of raisins into cold water, and 
remove their stones, and mix them in the cake. A quarter of cit- 
ron, grated, will add a fine flavor, and make it very rich. In order 
to keep the cake a few days, crushed sugar, dissolved in a solution 



Cakacj and Biscuits. 171 

Potato Scones — Various Toasts^Wheat-meal Fruit Biscuits. 

of gum Arabic — one ounce to a half teacupful of water, and the 
juice of a lemon, will make a beautiful frosting. Keep it in a cool 
place. In summer sugar may be grated over the loaf, which is 
formed by pressing the dough into the dish with the hand. 

53. Potato Scones. 

Mash boiled potatoes till quite smooth, and knead with flour to 
the consistency of a light dough ; roll it about half an inch thick ; 
cut the scones in any form desired ; prick them with a fork, and 
bake on a griddle. 

54. Dry Toast 

For very acid, bilious, and irritable stomachs, dry bread, if well 
toasted, is often the best food that can be taken. The practical 
point is to have it well and evenly browned, without being in the 
least degree scorched or burned. The bread should always be 
toasted just before it is wanted. Bread which is a little soured or 
over-fermented is improved, though not cured, by toasting. 

55. Milk Toast. 

Scald sweet milk, and thicken it with a very little flour or wheat- 
meal. Carefully toast both sides of either brown or white bread 
(stale bread is best), cracker, or biscuit, till its color becomes yel- 
lowish-brown ; then put them in the dish for the table, just cov- 
ered with the thickened milk gravy. 

56. Cream Toast. 

Toast half a dozen thin slices of stale bread nicely and equally 
on both sides ; turn over them, while hot, half a pint of sweet 
cream, also hot, and diluted with as much scalded milk. 

57. Wheat-meal Fruit Biscuits. 

Mix Graham flour with just enough of scalded figs — previously 
washed — to make an adherent dough by much kneading ; roll or 
cut into biscuits half an inch thick, and two or three incnes square ; 
bake in a quick oven. 

Note. — The English unfermented '-forthright" bread \a made In 
t'he same way, with the exception that the meal is wet with water 



172 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Frost Cakes — ^Improved Jumballa — Fruit Cake — Wedding Cake. 

instead of fruit, made into rolls of an inch in thickness, cut 
deeply across, and baked in a moderately hot oven. 

58. Frost Cakes. 

Take one pound of potato flour, half a pound of best brown sugar, 
a teacupful of cream, two eggs, and the rind of a citron, grated. 
Mix the flour with the cream ) then add the eggs, well beaten, the 
sugar and the lemon ] whisk them all together fifteen or twenty 
minutes, and bake in cheese-cake tins in a moderate oven. 

59. Improved Jumballs. 

Take one pound of flour, eight ounces of sweet oil, ten ounces 
of good white sugar, and two eggs. Mix the flour, oil, sugar, and 
the eggs, well beaten, into a stifi" paste ] roll it thin ; cut it in 
shreds, and twist them into rings, knots, or any form that fancy may 
suggest ; lay them on baking tins ; wet them over with molasses, 
and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

60. Fruit Cake. 

Take one pound and a half of flour or meal, one quarter of a 
pound of sultana or blown raisins, one half pound of black cur- 
rants, four ounces of sugar, one gill of sweet cream, four eggs, 
one teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and half a pint of sour 
milk or sour buttermilk. Mix the soda and cream well with the 
flour or meal- add the sugar, raisins, currants, and eggs, well 
beaten ; then work all into a dough with the milk as rapidly as 
possible, and bake in an oiled or floured tin mold an hoiu and a 
quarter. 

61. Wedding Cake. 

Take one pound of well-boiled wheaten grits, half a pound of 
flour, one cocoanut grated, one quarter of a pound of black cur- 
rants, one quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, one pint of olive 
oil or of sweet cream, and eight eggs. Mix the grits well with the 
cocoanut and fruits ; add gradually the eggs, well beaten, and the 
flour, sugar, and oil or cream. Knead the whole thoroughly to a 
stiff dough, adding cocoa-milk if too dry, and more flour if too 
moist, and bake in a rather quick oven. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

MUSHES AND POKKIDGES. 

The reader will observe that salt is not mentioned as an ingre- 
dient of any recipe in this book. But as almost all persons are 
accustomed to the use of this seasoning, I can only say to them, if 
they can not bring their appetite at once into subjection to unsalted 
aliment, they had better use a moderate quantity, and gradually 
diminish it. 

In all the cook books I am acquainted with, salt is put down as 
a fixture of every dish ; and mushes, especially Indian and rice, 
are usually considered as unendurably flat and insipid, unless 
abundantly salted. A little experience with unsalted food, and a 
little self-denial, will, however, enable all persons to relish not only 
mushes, but all other farinaceous preparations, with no other sea- 
onings than sugar or milk. ^ 

62. Cracked Wheat Mush. 

As the grits swell very much in boiling, they should be stirred 
gradually in boiling water antil a thin mush is formed. The boil- 
ing should then be continued very moderately for one or two 
hours. 

If the grits are ground very coarse, they will require boiling five 
or six hours. A large coffee mill will serve the purpose very well 
of grinding for a family. 

An ordinary iron pot will answer to boil the grits in, if they are 
constantly stirred, or if the vessel stand on legs, so that the blaze 
of the fire is not in immediate contact with it. The double boiler, 
however (found at most hardware stores), is the most convenient 
to prevent burning or scorching. l!; is a tin or iron vessel sur- 
rounded by hot water, and contained within another vessel which 
comes in contact with th fire. 



lY'l Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Hominy — Samp — Icye-meal — ludian-meal and Oatmeal Mush. 



63. Hominy. 

This is generally, in this market, prepared from the Southern or 
white corn,, which is cut into coarser or finer particles of nearly 
uniform size. It is cooked like the wheaten grits, and usually re- 
quires to be boiled one hour. The fine-grained hominy can be 
well cooked in half an hour, by boiling a few minutes and then 
steaming it, without stirring, over as hot a fire as can be borne 
without scorching. All hominy requires soaking before cooking. 
Two quarts of water are required for one of hominy. 

64. Samp. 

This is merely a very coarse hominy — the grains of corn being 
cut or broken into very coarse particles. It should be washed sev- 
eral times, and the water poured through a sieve to separate the 
hulls ; and it requires boiling five or six hours. 

65. Rye-meal Mush. 

This is made precisely like the mush of cracked wheat, or 
wheaten grits. It is particularly adapted to those who have long 
suffered from habitual constipation. To persons unaccustomed to 
the grain, the effect on the bowels is decidedly laxative. The meal 
must be fresh ground, and made of well-cleaned and plump 
grain. 

66. Indian-meal Mush. 

White and yellow corn meal are made into the well-known mush 
called ]msty pudding. Either kind is equally agreeable to most 
persons. It should be stirred very gradually into boiling water, so 
as to prevent himping ; it will cook very well in fifteen minutes ; 
but half an hour's gentle boiling improves its flavor. 

67. Oatmeal Mush. 

This, in Scotland, is called stirabout. It is a favorite with many 
persons, and makes a pleasant change of dishes. It is cooked pre- 
eisely like Indian mush. 



Mtishes and Poeeidges. 175 

Farinaceous Mushes — Com Starch Blanc-mange — Molded Farinacea. 



68. Wheat-meal Mush. 

This is an excellent article for infants and young children — much 
better than the /anna, which is so extensively employed. It will 
do for a change in the cases of adults ; but is not equal to the 
coarser preparations of the grain. It is cooked like Indian mush. 

69. Faiiina Mush. 

This is too nutritive, oi-, rather, concentrated an aliment for an 
every-day dish, but will do occasionally for variety's sake. It is 
made into mush in the same way as Graham flour or Indian meal. 

70. Rice Mush. 

Put one pint of plump head rice, previously picked over and 
washed, into three quarts of boiling water ; continue the boiling 
fifteen to twenty minutes, but avoid stirring it so as to break up 
or mash the kernels ; turn off the water ; set it uncovered over a 
moderate fire, and steam fifteen minutes. Rice is " poor stuff " 
without salt, say the cooks, and cook-books. If you find it so, 
reader, try a little sirup or sugar. 

71. Rice and Milk Mush. 

Boil a pint of clean head rice fifteen or twenty minutes ; pour 
off the water; add a little milk — mixing it gently so as not to 
break the kernels — and boil a few minutes longer. 

72. Corn Starch Blanc-mange. 

Dissolve half a pound of corn starch in a pint of cold milk; 
then put it into three pints of boiling milk ; and boil very mod- 
erately five or six minutes. 

73. Molded Farinacea. 

Nearly all the boiled farinaceous foods may be molded to please 
the fancy, in teacups, glasses, or earthen molds. Wheaten grits, 
rice, farina, corn starch, etc., may be put into the molds, or dishes, 
previously wet in cold water, as soon as cooked, and when cooled 
turned out o;i china or glass plates. The addition of a little 
whortleberry, raspberry, blackberiy^ or strawberry juice, will afford 



1Y6 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Milk Porridge — Various Farinaceons Porridges. 

an innocent coloring material for those who have time and inclina- 
tion to indulge in such amusements. 

74. Milk Porridge. 

Place a pint and a half of new milk and half a pint of water 
over the fire ; when just ready to boil, stir in a tablespoonful of 
flour, wheat-meal, oat-meal, or corn-meal, previously mixed with a 
little water ; after boiling a minute, pour it on bread cut into small 
pieces. 

75. Wheat-meal Porridge. 

Stir gradually into a quart of boiling water half a ppund of 
wheat-meal, and boil ten or fifteen minutes. It may be flavored 
with a little milk, molasses, or sugar. 

76. Oatmeal Porridge. 

Rub three quarters of a pound of oatmeal into a little cola 
water, till the mixture is smooth and even ; add it to tnree pmts 
of boiling water; allow the whole to boil gently about twenty 
minutes. Serve with milk, sirup, or sugar. 

77. Hominy Porridge. 

Steep one pound of hominy, prepared as in 63, in water ten 
hours, and then dried in a stove or oven ; pour oiF the fluid which 
has not been absorbed ; add three pints of milk, and set the whole 
in a moderate oven two hours, till all the milk is absorbed ; pour 
into saucers, and serve with milk and sugar. 

78. Sago Porridge. 

Soak four tablespoonfuls of sago a few minutes in one quart of 
cold water ; then boil it gently one hour, and pour it into soup 
plates. 

79. Rice and Sago Porridge. 

Take equal quantities of rice flour or ground rice and sago, and 
proceed as in 77. 

80. Bean Porridge. 

Mix three tablespoonfuls of bean or lentil flour with one pint 
of water boil ten minutes, stirring it continually. 



CHAPTER IX. 

PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

As usually made, pastry is one of the worst abominations of 
modern cookery 3 I can hardly conceive of any thing mo.re indi- 
gestible than the crust of a baker's pie. Still, a great variety of 
pies can be made, which are as delicious as any one ought to eat, 
and which are but a slight departure from the use of bread, fruit. 
and sugar, on physiological principles. 

81. Pie Crust. 

The crust for pies and tarts may be made comparatively whole- 
some in a variety of ways. Any kind of flour or meal, or various 
admixtures of them, may be wet with water and .shortened with 
sweet cream ; or the flour or meal may be wet with milk and short- 
ened with olive oil. The succeeding recipes will be a sufficient 
guide. 

82. Wheat-meal Pie Crust. 

Dilute sweet cream with a little water • work the meal into 
it until a stiff dough is formed, and roll it out to the desired thick- 
ness. 

83. Wheat and Potato Crust. 

Mix equal parts of fine wheaten flour and potato flour, or of 
good mealy potatoes, boiled, peeled, and mashed, with sweet milk^ 
and shorten with olive oil. 

84. Meal and Flour Crust. 

Take equal parts of Graham and fine flour, and wet into a doagh 
with diluted sweet cream. 

8* 



178 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Eaised Pie Cnist — Pumpkin Pies with Eggs and with Cream. 



85. Raised Pie Crust. 

Mix with half a pint of sour milk either fine or coarse flour, or 
equal parts of both, to make a thick batter ; then add half a tea- 
spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, previously dissolved, and stir in 
flour enoujrh to form the dough or paste, as rapidly as possible. 

This is not as wholesome as the preceding kinds. 

86. Wheat and Rye Crust. 

Take half a pint of wheat ^n flour, half as much rye-meal, one 
gill of sweet cream, and water enough to form a stiff paste. It 
may be improved, perhaps, by tlm addition of one good mealy 
potato. ^ 

87. Bread Pie Crust. 

Pour boiling milk on light stale bread or biscuit; let it re- 
main closely covered till cold ; then add a little sweet cream or 
salad oil, and as miich flour as will make a paste of the proper 
consistence. 

88. Pumpkin Pie with Eggs. 

All kinds of pumpkins, domestic or foreign, make very good pies. 
But the best in this market are the West Indian. Pare the pump- 
kin; take out the seeds carefully without scraping the solid part 
of the fruit ; stew until it becomes soft, and strain through a sieve 
or colander. Beat up one egg for each pint of milk ; stir the 
beaten egg and milk with the stewed fruit until it becomes as 
thick as can bo stirred rapidly and easily ; sweeten with molasses 
or brown sugar, and bake without an upper crust, an hour, in either 
deep or shaHow plates, in a hot oven. 

Note. — ^When a singl" or under crust only is used, it should be 
made thicker than when two are used, and also rimmed or raised 
on the edge. 

89. Pumpkin Pie with Cream. 

Prepare the fruit as in 88, and instead of eggs use one gill 
of sweet cream to each quart of milk. 



Pies and Puddings. 179 



Squash Pie — Apple Pies — Carrot Pies— Potato Pie. 

■90. Grated Pumpkin Pie. 

Take out the seeds as in 88 ; grate the fruit close doMii to 
the outside skin ; sweeten the pulp ; mix with milk and cream ; 
flavor with grated lemon, citron, or cocoa, and bake on a single 
crust. 

91. Squash Pie. " 

This is made precisely like the pumpkin pie, and is essentially 
the same thing. The best squashes for pie-making are the cream, 
butter, and several varieties of winter. The more firm in texture 
and sweeter in flavor, the better. 

92. Green Apple Pie. 

Peel and core moderately tart and ripe apples — pippins, russets, 
and greenings are excellent ; cut them into very thin slices • fill 
the under crust ; then sprinkle over them brown sugar, or pour 
over molasses to sweeten sufficiently ; lay over the upper crust, 
and bake them in a moderate oven about forty minutes. 

93. Dried Apple Pie. 

Select clean and rich-flavored fruit, and that which is not very 
sour; stew until soft; sweeten with brown sugar or molasses; 
place the apples half an inch thick between the crusts, and bake 
about half an hour. 

94. Carrot Pies. 

These are not so delicious as pumpkin pies, though some persons 
are very fond of them. They are made in the same way as the 
pumpkin pies. The roots should be boiled very tender, then 
skinned and sifted. 

95. Potato Pie. 

Carolina potatoes are generally preferred, though mealy Irish 
ones do very well. Boil them till quite soft; peel, mash, and 
strain them ; then to half a pound of potatoes put a quart of milk, 
half a gill of sweet cream, two beaten eggs and bake on a single 

3rU8t 



180 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Peach Pie — Khubarb Pie — Custard, Cranberry, and 'Whortleberry Pies. 



96. Peach Pie. 

Take juicy and mellow peaches ; peel, stone, and slice them ; 
then put them in a deep pie plate lined with the under crust ; 
sprinkle through them a sufficient quantity of sugar, equally di.« 
tributed ; put in about a tablespoonful of water ; dust a little flour 
over the top ; cover with a rather thick crust, and bake nearly an 
hour. 

97. Dried Peach Pie. 

Procure the mildest-flavored and softest dried fruit; stew and 
sweeten, and make the pie a little thicker than dried apple pie ; 
bake about three quarters of an hour. 

98. Rhubarb Pie. 

Take the tender stalks of the plant ; strip oS the skin ; stew till 
soft, and sweeten ; press the upper crust closely around the edge 
of the plate, and prick the crust with a fork, so that it will not 
burst and let out the juice while baking. It should bake about an 
hour, in a slow oven. 

99. Custard Pie. 

Take one quart of rich, sweet milk ; beat six eggs with two 
tablespoousfuls of sugar, and stir the whole together. Put the crust 
on the plates, and let it harden a fe*v minutes in the oven or near 
the fire; then pour in the custard, and bake about twenty min- 
utes. 

100. Cranberry Tart. 

Wash the berries in a pan of water, rejecting all the bad ones ; 
eimmer them until they become soft and burst open ; sweeten with 
half a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit ; place it again over 
the fire till it comes to the boihng point ; then place it on a thick 
under crust, and bake in a moderate oven. 

101. Whortleberry Pie. 

This is one of the most delicious and wholesome of pies. Wash 
and pick 3ver the ripe berries ; place them an inch thick on the 



Pies and Pu.ddings. 181 

Berry Pies — Strawberry Tart— Dried Fruit Pies. 

under crust ; strew a little sugar over them ; put on the upper crust, 
and bake half an hour. 

102. Blackberry Pie. 

This is nearly or quite as good as the preceding, and made in the 
same way. The berries should be ripe, or nearly so, and as fresh 
as possible. 

103. Raspberry Pie. 

Either the black or red berry is excellent for pies. The latter is 
very sweet and requires but a trifle of sugar, 

104. Strawberry Pie. 

This is made in the same way as the other berry pies. This 
fruit is rather acid, and requires considerable sugar to make it 
pleasant. 

105, Strawberry Tart. 

Stew the fruit until soft 3 sweeten "with brown sugar, about six 
ounces to a pound of the fruit, and bake moderately on a single 
crust. 

106. Green Currant Pie. 

Currants will make good and wholesome pies at nearly all stages 
of their growth. They only require to be stewed, and sweetened 
according to their degree of acidity, and baked between two crusts 
in the ordinary manner. The addition of a little dried or green 
apple gives a fine flavor. 

107. Gooseberry Pie. 

This is made in the same way as the preceding, but requires a 
larger proportion of sugar. The berries should be nearly or quite 
full grown. A little apple may be used if preferred. 

108. Dried Fruit Pies. 

These may be made of various dried berries — currants, rasp- 
berries, whortleberries, etc., or of any of these mixed with dried 
apples, peaches, pears, or plums. They are merely to be mixed in 



182 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Puddings of Eice — Sago, Pearl Barley, Bread, and Cracked Wheat 



proportions to suit taste or convenience, sweetened, and baked in 
double crusts, in the usual way. 

109. Rice Pudding. 

Wash and pick over half a pint of good head rice ; mix it with 
two quarts of cold sweet milk ; sweeten with a teacupful of sugar; 
bake it in a moderate oven three hours. 

110. Sago and Apple Puddings. 

Take six ounces of sago, previously washed and picked, five 
large rich apples, peeled, quartered, and cored, and one teacupful of 
sugar. Pour boiling water on the sago ; let it stand till cold ; then 
mix in the apples and sugar, and bake about an hour. 

111. Pearl Bap.ley Pudding. 

Pick and wash half a pound of pearl barley ; soak it in fresh 
water over night ; pour off the water ; add one quart of new milk 
and a teacupful of sugar ; and bake one hour in a slow oven. 

112. Barley and Apple Pudding. 

Pick and wash half a pound of pearl barley ; soak it in water 
twelve hours ; then put it into a pan with three pints of water ; let it 
boil two hours j pour it into an oiled pie-dish ; put in half a pound 
of apples, sliced; add two ounces of sugar, and bake one hour in 
a moderate oven. 

113. Bread Pudding. 

Pour a quart of boiling milk on as much light bread (either 
brown or white), biscuit, or cracker, broken or cut into small pieces, 
as will absorb it ; cover it, and let it remain till quite cool ; then 
sweeten, and bake an hour and a half. 

114. Cracked Wheat Pudding. 

Boil wheaten grits till quite soft ; then dilute the mush with 
milk to the proper consistency — li should be rather thin ; sweeteUj 
and bake one hour. 



Pies and Puddings. 183 

Hominy, Indian-meal, Tapioca, Snow, Christmas, and Macaroni Puddings. 



115. Hominy Pudding. 

Mix oold boiled hominy with milk till sufficiently diluted ; sweet- 
en, and bake in a hot oven an hour and a half or two hours. 

116. Indian-meal Pudding. 

Take half a pound of Indian-meal, one quart of milk, one quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and two eggs. Boil the milk ; mix it with the 
meal, and add tlte s-ugar ; when nearly cold put in the eggs, well 
beaten, and make a thin batter ; bake it in a quick oven three hours. 

117. Tapioca Pudding. 

Pour a pint of warm milk on half the quantity of tapioca ; let 
it soak till dissolved ; then add another pint of milk, sweeten, 
and bake about one hour in a moderate oven. 

118. Snow Pudding. 

It is a singular fact that puddings may be made light with snow 
instead of eggs — a circumstance of some importance in the winter 
season, when eggs are dear and snow is cheap. Two large table- 
spoonfuls are equivalent to one egg. The explanation is found in 
the fact that snow involves within its flakes a large amount of at- 
mospheric air, which is set free as the snow melts. This knowl- 
edge may be applied to any kind of pudding, as the two succeeding 
recipes will show. \t 

119. Christmas Puddijjg. 

Mix together a pound and a quarter of wheaten flour or meal, 
half a pint of sweet cream, a pound of stoned raisins, four ounces 
of currants, four ounces of potatoes, mashed, five ounces of brown 
sugar, and a gill of milk. When thoroughly worked together, add 
eight large spoonfuls of clean snow ; diffuse it through the mass as 
quickly as possible ; tie the pudding tightly in a bag previously 
wet in cold water, and boil four hours. 

120. Macaroni Snow Pudding. 

Take three ounces of macaroni, one pint of new milk, one gill 
of cream, four of brown sugar or molasses, and eight table- 
spoonfuls of snow. Simmer the macaroni in the milk till well 



184 Hydkopathio Cook-Book. 

Eice, Apple, Snow-ball, Apple Custard, Cottage, and Farina Puddings. 

mixed ; add the sugar and cream ; then stir in the snow quickly, 
and bake immediately till lightly browned. 

121. Rice and Apple Pudding. 

Boil half a pound of rice in half a pint of milk till it is soft ; 
then fill the pudding-dish half full of apples, which have been 
pared and cored ; sweeten with brown sugar or molasses ; put the 
rice over the fruit as a crust, and bake one hour. 

122. Sweet Apple Pudding. 

Put a dozen good, ripe, sweet apples, which have been pared, 
cored, and cut into slices, into a quart of milk, with a pint of 
Indian-meal; bake three hours. If the apples are not very sweet, 
a little molasses may be used. 

123. Snow-ball Pudding. 

Pare and core large, mellow apples, and inclose them in cloths 
spread over with boiled rice, and boil one hour. Dip them in cold 
water before turning them out. They may be eaten with sirup, 
sugar, or sweetened milk. 

124. Apple Custard. 

Pare and core half a dozen good, ripe, mealy, and moderately 
tart apples ; boil them in a small quantity of water till rather soft; 
put them into the pudding-dish, and sugar them over ; then add eight 
eggs, which have been beaten up with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and mixed with three pints of milk ; bake half au hour. 

125. Cottage Pudding. 

Mix two pounds of pared, boiled, and mashed potatoes with one 
pint of milk, three beaten eggs, and two ounces of sugar ; bake 
three quarters of an hour. 

126. Farina Pudding. 

Mix ten ounces of farina with half a pint of cold milk ; put one 
quart of milk over the fire, and, while it is boiling, stir in the 
farina gradually, and let it simmer fifteen or twenty minutes. It 
mav be served with milk, fruit, jelly, or sugar. 



Pies and Puddings. 185 

Puddings of Figs, Cocoa, Apple, Berries, Eggs, Potatoes, and of Green Com. 

127. Fig and Cocoa-nut Pudding. 

Wash one pcnnd of figs in warm water ; soak them till soft ; add 
to them one giated cocoa-nut with its milk, and four ounces of 
sugar ; then knead with them all as much wheat-meal as can be 
worked into a rather soft dough. (If in the cold season, three or 
four spoonfuls of snow will make it still lighter.) Tie it in a pud- 
ding-bag, not very tight, as it will swell some, and boil two hours. 

128. Baked Apple Pudding 

Boil one pound and a half of good apples with a gill of water 
and half a pound of brown sugar, till reduced to a smooth pulp ; 
stir in one gill of sweet cream or of olive oil, a tablespoonful of 
flour or of fine bread crumbs ; flavor with a little lemon juice or 
grated lemon, and bake forty minutes. 

129. Berry Pudding. 

Make a batter of one quart of flour or meal, three pints of milk, 
and three eggs. Stew three pints of either blackberries, whortle- 
berries, black currants, raspberries^ or morella cherries, and sweeten 
to suit the taste ; stir them into the batter, and bake. 

130. Custard Pudding. 

Mix with a pint of sweet cream or of new milk one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, three beaten eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Bake for half an hour. 

131. Potato Apple Dumplings. 

Boil any quantity of white mealy potatoes ; pare them, and 
mash them with a rolling-pin ; then dredge in flour enough to form 
a dough ; roll it out to about the thickness of pie crust, and make 
up the dumplings by putting an apple, pared, cored, and quartered, 
to each. Boil them one hour. 

132. Green Corn Pudding. 

To one quart of grated ears of green corn add a teacupful of 
cream, one gill of milk, a tablespoonful of flour, and two ounces 
of sugar ; mix all together, and bake an hour and a half. 



CHAPTER X. 

WHOLE GKAINS AND SEEDS. 

Quite a variety of excellent dishes may be made of whole grains 
and seeds, by simply boiling or roasting ; and for those who insist 
on more complicated cookery, seasonmg with a little milk or salt 
may render them sufficiently palatable. 

133. Boiled Wheat. 

Take good plump wheat ; wash it perfectly clean, and pick out 
all smut, cockle, blasted grains, etc.; boil it in pure soft water. 
until the grains are softened through, which process will require 
several hours. It may be eaten with or without cream, sugar, 
molasses, or milk. Rye and barley may be cooked in the same way. 

134. Boiled Rice. 

Be careful and select for this purpose the large, plump kernel 
called head rice ; boil it in pure soft water and in a covered vessel 
about twenty minutes, stirring it gently occasionally ; then set it 
off from the fire, and in a place just warm enough for it to simmer ; 
let it remain an hour and a half without stirring ; the grains may 
then be taken out full and unbroken. 

135. Parched Corn. 

The most convenient method of parching corn is, to put the 
grains in an apparatus made of wire on purpose, called " corn 
parcher," and hold them over burning coals, shaking or turning 
them continually. 

Most of the parched corn, or "dyspepsia corn," sold at the fruit 
stands, has a very salty, greasy taste, owing to its having been 
seasoned with salt and hog's lard, on the erroneous notion that such 
preparations would cause it to "pop" better, as well as taste mora 
agreeable. 



Whole Grains and Seeds. 181 

Cooked ChestButs, Peanuts, Green Peas, Green Beans, Dried Beans and Peas. 

136. Boiled Chestnuts. 

These make a perfectly wholesome and very delicious food. The 
principal difficulty attending their use is their scarcity. As they 
are liable to he infected with worms, they should he carefully 
picked over previous to being boiled. They will cook sufficiently 
in about an hour. Chestnuts may be roasted in about fifteen 

minutes. 

137. Roasted Peanuts. 

Peanuts may be cooked in the same manner as parched corn, or 
baked in a stove or oven. They are healthful food as a part of the 
regular meal — at all events, to stomachs accustomed to plain living. 

138. Boiled Green Peas. 

Put the peas into just enough water to cover them, immediately 
after they are shelled ; let them boil about twenty minutes, or until 
done. When the pods are fresh and gr^en, it will improve the dish 
to boil them also fifteen or twenty minutes in as little water as will 
cover them (having washed them previously) ; turn off the juice, 
and add it to the peas. 

Those who will use salt should add it to the peas after they are 
cooked, instead of salting the water in which they are boiled. 

A little milk, with a trifle of sugar, if preferred, makes a good 
seasoning enough. 

139. Boiled Green Beans. 
The common garden, kidney, and Lima beans are all excellent 
dishes, prepared by simply boiling till soft, without destroying the 
shape of the seed. A little milk or cream may be stirred in, when 
they are cooked sufficiently, if any seasoning is desired. They 
usually require boiling an hour and a half. 

140. Dried Beans and Peas. 
Dried beans usually require boiling two hours or two hours and 
a half ; and dried peas nearly twice as long. Beans and peas which 
have been dried in the green state, should be soaked in cold water 
over night, after which they can be boiled sufficiently in about 
two hours. 



188 Hydeopathic Cook-Book. 

BoUed Green Ccrn— TloasteJ Green Com — Succotash. 

141. Boiled Green Corn. 

Trim off the husks and silk ; thro-w it into hot water, and let it 
boil half or three quarters of an hour, according to the size of the 
ear. The sweet or sugar corn is the best for this purpose. It 
should never be boiled in salted water, as this makes it harder and 
comparatively indigestible. 

142. Roasted Green Corn. 

Remove the husks and lay the ears over red-hot coals on a grid- 
iron. It is " not bad" roasted by laying the ears directly on burn- 
ing coals, care being taken to turn them before they are burned 
injuriously. 

143. Succotash. 

This is usually made of green corn and garden beans, although 
jstring beans are sometimes added. Cut the kernels of corn from 
the cob ; and stew them and the beans, closely covered, in water 
or milk, for about three quarters of an hour. If a richer dish is 
wanted, stir in a little cream, and let the whole simmer for ten 
minutes longer. 

Some persons string the beans, and then cut them into small 
pieces, before mixing and stewing — a plan only t-o be recommended 
to those who have abundance of time for "small things." 

Lima beans and sugar corn make an excellent succotash; to 
which a proportion of marrow-fat peas are sometimes added. 



CHAPTER XI. 

GETELS AND SOUPS. 

Gruels are merely thin mushes ; they are approjriate prepara- 
tions for many invalids — in the convalescent state after febrile and 
inflammatory diseases — and are frequently serviceable in cases of 
constipation, especially when attending acute diseases. Accom- 
panied with dry toast, stale bread, or hard crackers, they help to 
make a variety for well folks. 

Soups are dishes intermediate between gruels, and mushes ; and, 
if properly made, are not objectionable as changes, though not to 
be commended as leading or every-day dishes. Some of the follow- 
ing recipes, I am well aware, will taste " flat" to many palates, 
when the addition of a little salt would render them very "good 
eating." I must, therefore, leave this part of the subject to their 
own discretion. 

144. Wheat-meal Gruel. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of wheat-meal smoothly with a gill of 
cold water ; stir the mixture into a quart of boiling water ; boil 
about fifteen minutes, taking off" whatever scum forms on the top. 
A little sugar may be added if desired. 

145. Indian-meal Gruel. 

Stir gradually into a quart of boiling water two table.spoonfuls 
of Indian-meal ; boil it slowly twenty minutes. This is often pre- 
pared for the sick, under the name of " water-gruel." In the 
current cook-books, salt, sugar, and nutmeg are generally added 
Nothing of the sort should be used, except sugar. 

146. Oatmeal Gruel. 

Mix a tablespoonful of oatmeal with a little cold water ; pour 
on the mixture "a quart of hot but not boiling water, stirring it 



190 Hydkopathic Cook-Book. 

Farina, Tapioca, Sago, Currant, Groat, and Arrow-root Gruela. 

"well ; let it settle two or three minutes ; then pour it into the pan 
carefully, leaving the coarser part of the meal at the bottom of the 
vessel ; set it on the fire and stir it till it boils ; then let it boil 
about five minutes, and skim. 

147. Farina Gruel. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of farina in a gill of water ; pour very 
gradually on the mixture a quart of boiling water, stirring thor- 
oughly, and boil ten minutes. 

148. Tapioca Gruel. 

Wash a tablespoonful of tapioca, and soak it in a pint and a half 
of water twenty minutes ; then boil gently, stirring frequently, till 
the tapioca is sufficiently cooked, and sweeten. 

149. Sago Gruel. 

Wash two tablespoonfuls of sago, and soak it a few minutes in 
half a pint of cold water; then boil a pint and a half of water, 
and, while boiling, stir in the farina ; boil slowly till well done, 
and sweeten with sugar or molasses. 

150. Currant Gruel. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of currants to a quart of wheat-meal 
or oatmeal ground, and, after boiling a few minutes, add a little 
sugar. 

151. Groat Gruel. 

Steep clean groats in water for several hours ; boil them in pure 
soft water till quite tender and thick; then add boiling water suffi- 
cient to reduce to the consistency of gruel. Currants and sugar 
may also be added. 

152. Arrow-root Gruel. 

Mix an ounce of arrow-root smoothly with a little cold water ; 
then pour on to the mixture a pint of boiling water, stirring it con- 
stantly; return it into the pan, and let it boil five minutes. Season 
with sugar and lemon-juice. 



Gkuels and Soups. 191. 

Kice Gruel — Soups of Tomato, Eice, Peas, and Barley. 



153. Rice Gruel. 

Boil two ounces of good clean rice in a quart of water until the 
grains are quite soft ; then add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
boil two or three minutes. Currants made a good addition to this 
gruel. 

154. Tomato Soup. 

Scald and peel good ripe tomatoes ; stew them one hour, and 
strain through a coarse sieve ; stir in a very little wheaten tlour to 
give it body and brown sugar in the proportion of a teaspoonful to 
a quart of soup ; then boil five minutes. This is one of the most 
agreeable and wholesome of the " fancy dishes." Ochre, or gumbo, 
is a good addition to this and many other kinds of soup. 

155. Rice Soup. 

Boil one gill of rice in a pint of water till soft ; then add a pint 
of milk, a teaspoonful of sugar, and simmer gently five minutes. 

156. Split Pkas Soup. 

Wash one pint of split peas ; boil them in three quarts of water 
for three hours, and add a tablespoonful of sugar. 

157. Green Peas Soup. 

Take three pints of peas, three common-sized turnips, one carrot, 
and the shells of the peas. Boil one quart of the largest of the 
peas, with the shells or the pods, till quite soft ; rub through a fine 
colander ; return the pulp into the pan, add the turnips, a car- 
rot, sliced, and a quart of boiling water ; when the vegetables are 
perfectly soft, add the young or smaller peas, previously boiled. 

158. Split Peas and Barley Soup. 

Take three pints of split peas, half a pint of pearl barley, half 
a pound of stale bread, and one turnep, sliced. Wash the peas 
and barley, and steep them in fresh water at least twelve hours ; 
place them over the fire ; add the bread, turnip, and half a table- 
spoonful of sugar; boil till all are quite soft; rub them through a 
fine colander, adding gradually a quart of boiling water; return 
the soup into the pan, and boil ten minutes. 



.192 Hydkopathic Cook-Book. 

Barley and Green Bean Soups— Vegetable and Barley Broths— Spinach Soup. 



159. Barley Soup. 

Take four ounces of barley, two ounces of bread crumbs, and 
half an ounce of chopped parsley. Wash the barley ; and steep it 
twelve hours in half a pint of water ; pour off the water ; add the 
bread crumbs, and three quarts of boiling water ; boil slowly in a 
covered tin pan five hours, and about half an hour before the dish 
is to be served, add the parsley. 

160. Green Bean Soup. 

Take one quart of garden or kidney beans, one ounce of spinach, 
and one ounce of parsley. Boil the beans' skin and bruise them 
in a bowl till quite smooth ; put them in a pan with two quarts of 
vegetable broth (No. 161); dredge in a little flour; stir it on the 
fire till it boils, and put in the spinach and parsley (previously 
boiled and rubbed through a sieve). 

161. Vegetable Broth. 

This may be made with various combinations and proportions of 
vegetables. For example — four turnips, two carrots, one onion, 
and a spoonful of lentil flour. Half fill a pan with the vegetables, 
in pieces ; nearly fill up the vessel "with water ; boil till all the 
vegetables are tender, and strain. 

162. Barley Broth. 

Take four ounces of pearl barley, two turnips, three ounces of 
Indian-meal, and three ounces of sweet cream. Steep the pearl 
barley (after washing) twelve hours; set it on the fire in five 
quarts of fresh water, adding the turnips ; boil gently an hour; add 
the cream; stir in the meal ; thin it, if necessary, with more water, 
and simmer gently twenty minutes. 

163. Spinach Soup. 

Take two quarts of spinach, half a pound of parsley, two carrots, 
two turnips, one root of celery, and two ounces of cream. Stew all 
tne ingredients in a pint of water — a few lemon parings may bo 
thrown in to flavor — till quite soft ; rub through a coarse sieve ; 
add a quart of hot water, and boil twenty minutes. 



Geuels and Soups. 193 

Vegetable and Kice Soup— Cucumber and Gumbo Soup. 

164. Vegetable and Rice Soup. 

Take one pound of turnips, half a pound of carrots, quarter of a 
pound of parsneps, half a pound of potatoes, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of rice. Slice the vegetables ; put the turnips, carrots, and 
parsneps into a pan with a quart of boiling water; add the rice 
(previously picked and waslied) ; boil one hour; add the potatoes, 
with two quarts of water, and boil till all are well done. If too 
thin, a little rice flour, mixed with milk, may be stirred in, boiling 
afterward fifteen minutes. 

165. Cucumber and Gumbo Soup. 

Take half a dozen cucumbers of moderate size, six ounces of 
bread crumbs, four ounces of gumbo, one ounce of parsley, and six 
ounces of sweet cream. Pare and slice the cucumbers : chop the 
gumbo and parsley into small pieces, and stew them gently three 
quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally; then pour in two quarts 
of boiling water; add the bread crumbs and cream, and let the 
whole stew two hours. If the soup is then too thin, dredge in a 
little flour, and boil ten minutes longer. 

9 



CHAPTER XII. 

BOOTS AND VEGETABLES. 

166. Boiled Potatoes. 

Wash the potatoes without cutting them ; put them in boiling 
water, with not more of the water than is sufficient to cover them ; 
boil moderately until they are softened so that a fork will readily 
penetrate them ; pour off the water, and let them stand till dry. 

Young potatoes of medium size will cook in about twenty-five 
minutes : old potatoes require double the time. When peeled, they 
will cook in about half the time. 

All who would have potatoes well-cooked must observe the fol- 
lowing particulars : Always take them out of the water the mo- 
ment they are done. Ascertain when they are done by pricking 
with a fork, and not leave them to crack open. When cooked in 
any Avay, they become heavy and '-watery" by cooking them after 
they are once softened through. They should be selected of an 
equal size, or the smallest should be taken up as fast as cooked. 
Potatoes should never be boiled very hard, as it is apt to break 
them ; nor should the water stop boiling, as it will tend to make 
them watery. Old potatoes are improved by soaking in cold wate 
several hours, or over night, before cooking. They should never re 
main covered after having been roasted or boiled, to keep them hot 

167. Boiled Peeled Potatoes. 

Pare, wash, and soak them an hour or two in cold water ; boil 
slowly in just water enough to cover them, keeping the vessel un- 
covered', as soon as a fork will pass through them, pour olF the 
water, and let them steam five minutes. This method of cooking 
renders the potatoes mealy and dry. 



Roots and Vegetables. 195 

Various Preparations of Potatoes — Potato Flour. 



168. Browned Potatoes. 

Take cold boiled potatoes : cut them in slices about one third of 
an inch in thickness ; lay them on a gridiron or in a stove or oven, 
till both sides are moderately browned. 

169. Potato for Shortening. 

Wash, wipe, and pare the potatoes ; cover them with cold water, 
and boil moderately until done ; pour off the water ; then put each 
potato separately into a clean warm cloth ; twist the cloth so as to 
press all the moisture from it. Potatoes cooked in this way are 
light and mealy for mashing, and are an excellent article to mix in 
pastry, bread, cake, and puddings, to make them tender and 
" short." 

170. Mashed Potatoes. 

Pare and wash the potatoes ; put them in the vessel and cover 
them with cold water; put them on the fire, and boil slowly till 
done ; dry, and mash them till smooth and without lumps ; then 
stir in a little rich milk or sweet cream. 

171. Browned Mashed Potato. 

Prepare the potatoes as in 170 ; place them in a dish, and shapo 
the top tastefully, making checks with a knife, etc. ; then put them 
in a moderately hot stove, range, or oven, till well browned, yet 
not burned. The flavor of very old potatoes may be improved, or 
rather disguised, in this way. 

172. Breakfast Potato. 

Wash, peel, and cut into very thin slices, into as little water as 
they can boil in, so that it will principally evaporate in the pro- 
cess of cooking. Season with a very little milk or cream. 

173. Potato Flour. 

Grate pota'„oes, previously mashed and peeled, into a tub or 
large earthen pan of cold water ; let the pulp remain till it falls to 
the bottom, and the water begins to clear ; pour off the water, and 
add more — which should be pure and s(^t — s'irring the pulp well 



196 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Potato Jelly— Eoasted, Sweet, and Baked Potatoes— Boiled Turnips. 

with the hand, and rub it through a hair sieve, pouring water on 
it plentifully ; when the water clears pour it off carefully, and add 
more, stirring it well, and repeat the process till the farina is per- 
fectly white and the water clear ; then spread the farina on flat 
dishes before the fire, covering with paper to protect it from dust; 
when dry, reduce it to powder ; sift it, and preserve it in corked 
bottles or canisters. 

Potato flour is a useful addition to many kinds of puddings, pies, 
cakes, and breads, especially for those who are not much experienced 
in our style of cooking, as it makes them more light and tender. 

174. Potato Jelly. 

Pour water while actually boiling on the potato flour, and it will 
soon change into a very pleasant jelly. It may be flavored with a 
little sugar and fruit sauce. 

175. Roasted Potatoes. 

Potatoes are richer and more mealy, if carefully washed, and 
then buried in hot ashes, than when roasted iu any other way. 
But they may be very well cooked, after washing, by roasting in a 
Dutch oven, or reflector, before the fire, or in any oven moderately 
heated. The time required is from an hour and a half to two 
hours. 

176. Sweet Potatoes. 

They may be baked with their skins on ; or peeled and boiled, 
and then browned a little in the oven ; or simply boiled. They are 
excellent sliced and browned the next day after having been boiled. 

177. Baked Potatoes. 

Select those of rather large and uniform size; put them in the 
oven, and turn them occasionally till sufliciently done. 

178. Boiled Turnips. 

When turnips are sweet and tender, they are best if boiled 
whole till soft, and then sent immediately to the table. If they 
are allowed to boil too long they become bitterish. An hour is the 
medium time. They are less watery and better flavored when 
boD^d with their skins on, and pared afterward 



Roots and Vegetables. 197 

Preparations of Parsneps — Onions — Carrota — Artichokes. 



179. Mashed Turnips. 

This is the best method of preparing watery turnips, and a good 
■way of cooking all cookable kinds. Pare, wash, and cut them in 
slices ; put them in a pan with as much cold water as mil just 
cover them ; let them boil till soft ; pour them into a sieve or col- 
ander and press out the water; mash them with fresh milk or 
sweet cream until entirely free from lumps ; then put them into a 
saucepan over the fire, and stir them about three minutes. 

180. Boiled Parsneps. 

Wash the parsneps very clean ; split them in halves or quarters, 
and boil them till tender. Roots of ordinary size may be boiled in 
one hour or less. 

181. Stewed Parsneps. 

Wash, pare, and cut them into slices; boil until soft in just 
water enough to keep them from burning; then stir in sweet milk; 
dredge in a trifle of flour, and simmer fifteen minutes. This is a 
favorite dish with many persons. 

182. Browned Parsneps. 

Cold, boiled parsneps make an excellent relish with breakfast, 
if the slices or pieces are browned after the manner of potatoes in 
No. 168. 

183. Onions 

Onions, leeks, and some other acrid vegetables, if deprived of 
their pungency by boiling or roasting, may be tolerated as a part 
of the dietary of well persons ; but I would dissuade invalids from 
using them at all. With many they prove decidedly injurious. 

184. Carrots. 

Carrots may be boiled, stewed, or broAvned in the same manner 
as parsneps (Nos. 180, 181, 182). They are, however, less pala 
table to most persons, without abundant seasoning. Carrots re- 
quire to be boiled longer than parsneps. 



198 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

Jernsalem Artichokes — Preparations of Beet-root — Asparagus. 

185. Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Wash and brush, but do not peel them : boil them after tne rules 
for boiling potatoes; dry, peel, and wash them, seasoning with 
milk or cream. 

186. Boiled Beet-root. 

Wash the roots carefully : avoid scraping, cutting, or breaking 
the roots, as the juice would escape and the flavor be injured ; put 
them into a pan of boiling water ; let them boil one or two hours, 
according to size ; then put them into cold water and rub off the 
skin with the hand, and cut them in neat slices of uniform size. 
Good beets are sweet enough intrinsically, and need no extraneous 
seasoning. 

Note. — Beet-root must not be probed with a fork, as are pota- 
toes. When done, the thickest part will yield to the pressure of 
the fingers. 

187. Baked Beets. 

Wash the roots clean, and bake whole till qxiite tender ; put them 
in cold water ; rub off the skin ; if large, cut them in round slices ; 
but if small, slice them lengthwise. If any seasoning is insisted 
on, lemon juice is the most appropriate. When baked slowly and 
carefully, beet-root is very rich, wholesome, and nutritious. It 
usually requires baking four or five hours. 

188. Stewed Beet. 

Take baked or boiled beet-root : pare and cut it into slices ; sim- 
mer in milk or diluted cream fifteen minutes, and thicken the gravy 
with a little wheaten flour. 

189. Asparagus. 

Put the stalks in cold water ; cut off all that is very tough ; tie 
them in bundles ; put them over the fire and let them boil fifteen to 
twenty-five minutes, or until tender, without being soft. No one 
has a right to desire a better vegetable than this, with no other 
preparation than boiling. 

It should be cooked soon after being pickei, or kept cool and 
moist in a cellar till wanted. 



Roots and Yegetables. 199 

Cabbages — Cauliflowers — Broccoli — Cucumbers — Greens. 

190. Boiled Cabbage. 

Take oiF the outer leaves ; cut the head in halves or quarters, 
and boil quickly in a large quantity of water till done ; then drain 
and press out the water, and chop fine. Cabbages require boiling 
from half an hour to an hour. 

It will improve the flavor if the water is drained off when the 
cabbages are about half done, and fresh water added. 

191. Boiled Savoys. 

Savoys are a species of cabbage, and should be cooked in the 
same manner. 

192. Stewed Cabbage. 

Parboil in milk and water ; drain and shred it ; put it into a stew- 
pan with a teacupful of fresh milk or a gill of sweet cream, and 
cook till quite tender. 

193. Cauliflowers. 

Cut off the green leaves ; cleanse the heads carefully from insects ; 
soak them in cold water an hour, then boil in milk and water. 

194. Broccoli. 

Peel the stalks, and boil them fifteen minutes ; tie the shoots 
into bunches ] add a little milk or cream, and stew gently for ten 
minutes. 

195. Stewed Cucumbers. 

Pare and cut them into quarters, taking out the seeds ; boil like 
asparagus; serve up with toasted bread and sweet cream. 

196. Greens. 

Spinach, beet tops, cabbage sprouts, hop tops, mustard leaves, 
and turnip leaves are excellent for greens. Cowslips, dandelions, 
and deer weed are also used. They all require to be carefully 
wnshed and cleaned. Spinach should be washed in several waters. 
All the cooking requisite is, boiling till tender, and draining on a 
colander. Lemon juice is the appropriate seasoning. 



200 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

string Beans — Egg Plant — Vegetable Marrow — Salsify. 



197. String Beans. 

When very young, the pods need only to be clipped, cut finely, 
and boiled till tender ; when older, cut or break off the ends, strip 
off the strings that line their edges ; cut or break each pod into three 
or four pieces, and boil. When made tender, a little cream or milk 
may be simmered with them a few minutes. 

198. Egg Plant. 

This plant is so unpalatable without an extensive range of seas • 
onings, that I think it not worth bothering with. The " authorities" 
in cookery give us onions^ butter^ salt^ black pepper ^ and red pepper, 
to assist in getting it down. But if a dish or aliment can not be 
relished without pungent and irritants enough to set the mouth on 
fire and the teeth on edge, this fact is prima facie evidence that it 
had better be let alone. If any one likes them boiled in a large 
quantity of water, like cabbage, or boiled and then stewed in cream 
or milk, well and good. 

199. Vegetable Marrow. 

Peel the marrows ; cut them in halves ; scrape out the seeds ; then 
boil about twenty minutes, or until soft ; drain them in a sieve j 
wash them ; add a little milk or cream, and simmer a few minutes. 

200. Salsify— Oyster Plant. 

Scrape the vegetable ; cut it in strips ; parboil it ; then chop it up 
VT'th milk and a little sweet cream^ and simmer gently till cooked 
yrxy tender. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

PKEPAKED FRUITS. 

Cook Books are singularly meager in directions for preparing 
fruits for the table. Indeed, they hardly recognize them as food; 
and only give us tedious processes for converting them into sweet- 
meats, candies, brandied pic'^les, jams, jellies, marmalades, etc. 

The relations of fruit to health, and the relations of cookery to 
fruit, are subjects eminently worthy the attention of " model house- 
keepers." 

201. Baked Apples. 

The best baking apples are moderately tart, or very juicy sweet 
ones. The former, of ordinary size, vrill bake in about thirty min- 
utes; the latter in about forty-five minutes. Select, for balcing, 
apples of nearly equal size ; wipe them dry and clean ; put a very 
little water in the bottom of the baking vessel, and place them in 
a hot oven. 

202. Stewed Green Apples. 

Apples for stewing should be well flavored and juicy. Sweet 
apples, when stewed, turn more or less dark colored, and hence do 
not appear as well as tart ones on the table, though some persons 
prefer them. Pare, core, and quarter; put a little water to them, 
and boil moderately till quite soft, and add sufficient sugar to suit 
taste — more or less, according to the acidity of the fruit. Some 
cooks flavor them with lemon : others with a small portion of 
peaches or other fruits. Good apples, however, are good enough 
in and of themselves. 

203. Boiled Apples. 

Select round mellow apples of uniform size ; pare them ; boil in 
as little water as possible, till soft ; put them in a vegetable dish ; 

9* 



202 Htdeopathic Cook-Book. 

Pipping — Dried Apples — Peara — Preparations of Peaches. 

and slowly pour over them a sirup, made by dissolving half a pound 
of sugar in a pint of hoiling water. 

204. Stewed Pippins. 

A rich apple sauce is made as follows : Peel, core, and quarter 
half a dozen ribstone pippins ; put them into a pan with six ounces 
of brown sugar, the juice of a lemon, its thin rind cut into strips, 
and very little water ; stew over a very slow fire till quite tender, 

205. Stewed Dried Apples. 

Select rich, mellow-flavored fruit, which is clear from dark spots 
or mold. That which is dried on strings is usually the nicest. 
Wash and pick the pieces ; boil in just water enough to cover them, 
over a slow fire, till partially softened ; then add sugar or molasses, 
and continue the boiling till done. For a change, they may be oc- 
casionally flavored with a proportion of dried peaches or quinces. 

206. Pears. 

Pears may be baked, boiled, or stewed in the same manner as 
apples. Some varieties of small, early, and sweet pears are very 
delicious, boiled whole without paring, and swetened with sirup. 
The large pears are usually selected for baking. 

207. Boiled Peaches. 

When peaches are not well ripened, or too sour to be eaten with- 
out cooking, boiling improves them very much. They should be 
pared — except when the skins are very smooth, clean, and tender — 
but not stoned ; boiled moderately till sufficiently cooked, and then 
sweetened. 

208. Stewed Green Peaches. 

Pare them and take out the stones ; add a very little water, and 
a sufficient quantity of sugar, and boil very slowly till well cooked. 

209. Stewed Dried Peaches. 

Most of the dried peaches in our markets are sour and unpleas- 
ant. But when we can find them of good quality, they are very 
excellent stewed and sweetened precisely like dried apples. 



Prepared Feuits. 208 

Uncooked Peaches — Apricots — Cherries — Marmalade. 

210. Uncooked Peaches. 

When we have peaches as good and ripe as all peaches ought to 
be. the best way to prepare them i.s this : Peel them ; cut the fruit 
off the stones in quarters, or smaller pieces ; fill the dish ; stir in a 
little sugar, and sprinkle a little more over the top. 

211. Apricots. 

Ripe apricots may be prepared in the same way as peaches, but 
they are best with no preparation at all. Unripe apricots may be 
cut into quarters, sweetened, flavored with lemon, and stewed in a 
little water. They will cook in a very few minutes. Avoid stir- 
ring and breaking the pieces, but shake the pan round occasionally 
to prevent burning. 

212. Cherries. 

Stewing is the only proper method for cooking this fruit. Re- 
move the stalks from the cherries ; pick them over carefully, reject- 
ing all unsound ones ; put them into a pan, with a very little water, 
and sugar in the proportion of about three ounces to a pound of 
cherries ; simmer them slowly over the fire, shaking the pan round 
occasionally till done. If a richer article is wanted, take the cher- 
ries out with a colander spoon, and keep them in a basin till cold ; 
reduce the sweetened water to the consistency of sirup, and put it 
over the cherries. 

213. Quinces 

It has been said that quinces commend themselves more to the 
sense of smell than of taste; hence are better to "adorn" other 
preparations than to be prepared themselves. "When stewed till 
quite tender, and sweetened, they are, however, very pleasant, yet 
rather expensive sauce. In the form of marmalade, it is a better 
seasoning for bread, cakes, or puddings, than butter. 

214. Quince Marmalade. 

Pare, core, and quarter the quinces ; boil them gently, uncovered, 
in water, till they begin to soften; then strain them through a hair 
sieve, a: I beat, in a mortar or wooden bowl, to a pulp ; add to each 



204 Hydropathic Cook-Book. 

stewed Cranberries — Various Preparations of Berried Fruits. 

pound of fruit three quarters of a pound of sugar ; boil till it be- 
comes stiff, and pour into small molds or sweetmeat pots. 

215. Stewed Cranberries. 

Wash and pick the berries ; stew them in just as little water as 
will prevent their burning, till they become soft ; then add half a 
pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit, and simmer a few minutes. 

216. Blackberries. 

When very ripe and sweet, a little sugar dusted over them is a 
sufficient preparation for the table. If sour, or not quite ripe, they 
should be stewed till soft, and moderately sweetened. The same 
rules apply to all berried fruits for which recipes are not given. 

217. Whortleberries. 

Many prefer these uncooked and unseasoned. If stewed, how- 
ever, they require but very little sweetening. 

218. Raspberries. 

Red raspberries are never fit to be eaten till ripe, and then they 
require neither sugar nor cooking. Black raspberries, when quite 
ripe, are also best in a " state of nature." If not entirely ripe, 
they may be stewed a few minutes, and sweetened with a very 
little sugar or molasses. 

219. Strawberries. 

Stewing is always an improvement to this fruit, especially for 
invalids, unless it is " dead ripe. As we usually find them in our 
city markets, they are picked before the ripening process has ma- 
tured them, and hence require considerable sugar. 

220. Gooseberries. 

Though very acid fruits, espe cially half-gro-\\Ti, are not to be rec- 
ommended to invalids, as a g( neral rule ; yet I find that manj 
who are '-on the sick list" cai use stewed gooseberries without 
discomfort,' and nearly all well persons can do the same. They 
should be cooked till thoroughly softened, and sweetened till 
palatable. 



Pkepaked Feuits. 205 

Currants — Plums — Grapes — Pineapple — Tomatoes. 

221. Currants. 

Green currants, when half or two thirds grown, are more mild- 
flavored and pleasant than when fully ripe ; nor do I find them 
often disagreeing with ordinary dyspeptics. I'hey require stewing 
but a short time, and moderately sweetening. The best currants, 
when quite ripe, may be taten uncooked, with a sprinkling of 
sugar. 

222. Plums. 

These must be managed according to their character and flavor. 
Many varieties are too sour to be eaten without stewing, and the 
addition of considerable sugar. Some kinds, however, are sweet 
and Ixiscious enough to require neither. 

223. Grapes. 

When the grapes are so sour as to set one's teeth on edge, they 
should be stewed and sweetened. But good, ripe, well-cultivated 
Isabellas and Catawbas are incomparably superior in dietetic char- 
acter, without '"the interference of our art." What a blessing it 
would be to the human race if all the vineyards in the world were 
made to supply wholesome food for children, instead of pernicious 
poison for adults ! 

224. Pineapple. 

The only way of preparing this fruit, which, like some others, 
has more flavor than taste, is that of paring, slicing, 9.nd sprinkling 
with sugar. 

225. Tomatoes. 

Scald the tomatoes by pouring boiling water on them; peel off 
the skins ; then stew them for an hour, and add a little slightly 
toasted bread. This is an excellent sauce for hydropathic tables; 
and the fruit may be improved in flavor by stewing half an hour, 
or even an hour longer. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

PKETAEATIONS OF ANIMAL FOOD. 

The flesh of animals affords but few dishes which can be eni' 
ployed consistently with water-cure treatment or physiological 
habits ; indeed, all flesh-eating is, in the strict sense, wnphysiologi- 
cal, and a compromise with the present appetences, habits, or infirm- 
ities of a degenerate state of society, consequent on a wide depart- 
ure from, and long-continued violation of, organic laws ; hence, 
while we "permit" the moderate use of animal food in many 
cases, we should be especially cautious to make the best possible 
selections and preparations. 

226. Beef Steak. 

This should be cut from the sirloin, well pounded, and broiled ; 
but not overdone in the least. For those who have good teeth, " rare 
cooked'' steak is the most wholesome. 

227. Mutton Chops. 

These should be selected from young animals, but not young 
lambs ; well trimmed of fatty matters, and broiled in the same way 

as steak. 

228. Stewed Mutton. 

Stew the chops in a little water till very tender ; then dredge a 
little flour in the water. For feeble teeth this is preferable to the 
broiled chops. 

229. Boiled Mutton. 

The leg is the best part for boiling. The time usually required 
for cooking it is two hours and a half. For health's sake there is 
little to choose between this and the steak^ or chops. 



Pkepaeations of Animal Food. 207 

Preparations of Beef— Venison— White Fish — Poultry. 



230. Boast Beef. 

The sirloin is, on many accounts, to be selected for roasting. 
The fatty matter should be carefully removed before roasting, as 
the heat renders it particularly obnoxious to the digestive organs. 
As is the case with steak, it is most wholesome rare done, provided 
the teeth are sufficient for its due mastication. 

231. Corned Beef. 

The lean pieces are to be chosen for boiling; the " round" is one 
of the best. It should be but slightly corned — not allowed to 
remain in brine over two or three days, and boiled till the fibers 
arc cut easily. 

232. Beef Hash. 

This is made by chopping cold corned beef or beefsteak into 
small pieces, and warming it up with three or four times the quan- 
tity of cold boiled potatoes in a little water. 

233. Venison. 

The flesh of the wild deer is usually called venison. It is at 
least as healthful as that of any of our domestic animals, and may 
be cooked in the same ways. Nearly all that we see in this market 
is old and discolored with incipient putrefaction, and entirely unfit 
for food. 

234. White Fish. 

The cod, halibut, trout, white-fish, black-fish, perch, and a few 
other varieties which are not very oily nor strong, are the best. 
They may be boiled or broiled. The only admissible gravy is 
water with a little milk and salt, and thickened with flour. 

235. Poultry. 

Common fowls should be stewed after the manner of mutton 
chops, or boiled. Turkeys are better boiled than roasted. Chickens, 
when tender, may be boiled or stewed. When any kind of fowl is 
stewed or boiled, the floating particles of oil should be carefully 
removed by skimming. 



208 Htdeopathic Cook-Bo ok. 

The Physiological Method of Cooking Eggs. 

236. Eggs. 

Put them in water at the boiling point, and let them scald (with- 
out boiling) about seven minutes — a little more or less according to 
size. This method will cook them through, and still leave the al- 
bumen soft and digestible. If cooked in boiling water they should 
remain in the water not more than four or five minutes. 



CHAPTER XV. 

RELISHES AND FANCY DISHES. 

Htdropathically speaking, our catalogue of "fancies" oi 
"dainties," in the eating line, must be rather limited. Never- 
theless, if a sufficient amount of " inventive genius'" were brought 
to bear on the subject, a pretty respectable variety could be " got up" 
without compromising so much with custom as to sink entirely tha 
idea of dietetic reform. At all events, I will try to gather to- 
gether a single chapter. 

237. Custard without Eggs. 

Take one quart of sweet, new milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil the milk over a brisk fire, and, 
when boiling, stir in the flour (having been previously mixed with 
cold milk to prevent lumping). When thoroughly scalded, bake in 
a crust, or in cups. 

238. Rice Custard. 

Boil two ounces of ground rice in a pint and a half of new milk ; 
add four ounces of sugar, an ounce of grated cocoa-nut, four ounces 
of sweet cream, and bake in a slow oven. 

239. Raspberry Custard. 

Boil one pint of cream ; dissolve half a pound of sugar in three 
gills of raspberry juice ; mix this with the boiling cream ; stir till 
the whole is quite thick, and serve in custard glasses. 

240 4.PPLE Cream. 

Pare and boil good, rich, oaking apples till soft ; rub the pulp 
through a hair sieve ; add the sugar while warm ; when cold, stir 
in a sufficient quantity of sweet cream, and serve cold. 



210 Htdkopathic Cook-Book. 

Snow Cream — Various Fruited Creams — Curd Cheese — Pot Cheese. 



241. Snow Cream. 

To one pint of cream add four ounces of sugar, one gill of lemon- 
ade, and the whites of two eggs, well beaten ; whisk the whole to 
a froth, and serve in a cream dish. 

242. Pineapple Ice Cream. 

Mix three gills of pineapple sirup with one pint of cream • add 
the juice of a large lemon, and four ounces of sugar ; pour into a 
mold • cover it with white paper ; lay a piece of brown paper over 
to prevent any water getting in, and set it in the ice. 

243. Strawberry Cream. 

Mash the fruit gently ; drain it on a sieve, strewing a little sugar 
on it; when well drained (without being pressed), add sugar and 
cream to the juice, and, if too thick, a little milk. Whisk it in a 
bowl, and, as the froth rises, lay it on a sieve ; and when no more 
will rise, put the cream in a dish, and lay the froth upon it. 

244. Raspberry Tce Cream. 

Mash one pound of raspberries ; strain off the juice'; mix it 
with the cream ; add sugar as required ; whisk it ; then pour into 
glasses, and freeze. 

Note. — The bucket used for freezing should be large enough to 
allow four or five inches of ice, broken in small pieces and mixed 
with salt, to be placed below and around the sides of the mold. 

245. Curd Cheese. 

Add as much sour milk to a quart of new milk as will turn it 
to a soft curd. Serve with sugar or presei red fruit. This is some- 
times called " Turkish yourt." 

246. Pot Cheese. 

Scald a pint of sour milk till it curdles ; strain off the whey, 
and form the curd into round cakes half an inch thick. The milk 
should not be old and bitterish. If very sour, a little sweet milk 
scalded with it improves the flavor of the curd. 

The pot or Dutch cheese sold by our market-women, and at some 



Relishes and Fancy Dishes. 211 

Cherry Jam — Apple Cheese — tjrape Sirup, or Unalcoholie Wiae. 

of the milk stores, is usually spoiled by an excessive quantity 
of salt. 

247. Cherry Jam. 

Take four pounds of Kentish cherries, one pound of fine sugar, 
and half a pint of red currant juice. Stone the fruit, and boil the 
whole together, rather quickly, till it becomes stiff. 

248. Apple Cheese. 

Take two pounds of apples, pared and sliced ; one pound of 
sugar ; the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and a little water. 
Put them all into a pan : cover, and set it over the fire till the 
apples are reduced to a pulp, turning the pan occasionally ; let it 
boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly, and pour it into small 
molds. 

249. Grape Sirup. 

To four pounds of picked grapes add a pint of water ; set them 
over a moderately hot fire till the grapes are well boiled, keeping 
the pan, which should be block-tin or brass, covered; strain 
through a hair sieve, gently pressing the grapes ; when cool, cover 
it with a plate, and let it remain till the next day : then carefully 
clear it off, and to each pint allow a pound of loaf-sugar, broken ; 
put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to each four 
pounds ; stir it, while cold, till the sugar is partly dissolved; then 
put it on a moderately brisk fire with the pan covered, stirring it 
occasionally till nearly boiling; then watch it carefully; and if it 
rise very much, draw the pan a little forward; let it boil up quickly 
several times, then moderately, till there is a thick scum formed at 
the side of the pan; take it olf quite clean; then pour in the 
juice; cover the pan till nearly boiling; remove the cover, and let 
the sirup boil a quarter of a hour, carefully taking off any scum 
that may rise. Pour the sirup into a large stone jar in which has 
been placed a little grated lemon or a few broken pieces of cinna 
mon, and let it remain one day; then strain it into bottles; cork, 
and keep it in a cool place. 

The above is really a kind of wnalcoholic wine, and as such 
can not be too highly recommended for " medicinal and sacramental 



212 Htdeopathic Oook-Book. 

Method of Baking MUk, or of Making Milk Gruel. 

purposes," in place of the drugged liquors and intoxicating wines 
so generally employed. 

250. Baked Milk. 

Put the milk into a jar; tie white paper over it; let it remain 
in a moderately warm oven all night, and it will be of the consist- 
ency of thin gruel. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

KITCHEN MISCELLANY. 

In a concluding chapter I propose to group together a few recipes 
sf general information, which, though useful to all. are more fre- 
quently applicable to the " sphere" of the cook. 

251. New Kind of Oven. 

An improved baking oven has been lately patented by a Mr. 
Carlisle, of Chesterfield, Me. It is built of brick, in the usual 
manner ; but below the hearth is a vacancy for the fire ; and the 
flue runs spirally around the outside of it, so that it is heated from 
the outjide. It requires no sweeping nor wetting of the hearth ; 
and, of course, is exempt from the cracking which is often occa- 
sioned thereby ; and, if necessary, it may be kept constantly hot. 

252. Steam Cooking. 

The application of steam to the boiling of fruits and vegetables 
is well understood ; but it can be applied also in cooking bread, 
cakes, biscuit, pastry, etc. My own experience has been limited ; 
but as far as I have experimented, I am favorably impressed with 
this mode of cooking many farinaceous preparations. The foUow- 
mg extract from a communication, from D. B. Hale, of Collins- 
ville, Coim., will show what is doing elsewhere in relation to this 
subject. 

253. Steaming vs. Baking Bread. 

Dr. Trall — Dear Sir : I wish to get your views on a new 
process of cooking bread, now coming into use among us, and I 
presume elsewhere. It is simply this : After the dough is prepared 
precisely as for baking, and placed in the tins, it is steamed in the 
following manner : Into a boiling pot put half a pint or a quart 
of water; lay sticks on the bottom crosswise, to set the tins, on; 
keep the water moderately boiling from twenty minutes to an hour 



214: Htdeopathic Cook-Book, 

Cucumbers in Tabs — Potato Cheese — Roasting — Burns and Scalds — Cockroaches. 

according to the size of the loaf, when it comes out as light and 
nice as any bread from the oven, and without any crust." 

254. Cucumbers in Tubs. 

Take a tight box or a tub ; cover the bottom with small stones , 
pour in water to the height of the stones, or even higher ; then fill 
up the box with rich soil, into which plant the seeds. 

255. Potato Cheese. 

The following method, practiced in Saxony, makes a mort 
healthful article ot cheese than that with which our tables are 
usually furnished in this coimtry : '• Boil large white potatoes until 
cooked ; let them cool : then peel, and mash them in a mortar. 
To five pounds of potatoes add one pound of sour milk, and a little 
salt ; knead the whole ; cover it, and let it remain undisturbed for 
three or four days, according to the season. At the end of thi.s 
time, knead it again, and place the cheeses in small baskets where 
the superfluous moisture will evaporate. Then place them in the 
sliade to dry, and put them in layers in large pots, or any other 
vessels, wherein they must remain fifteen days." 

In my judgment this article is more wholesome when fresh made 
than after standing fifteen days. I recommend, therefore, the omis- 
sion of the last clause of the recipe. 

256. Roasting Apples, Potatoes, Egmss, etc. 

After washing, wrap them in two or three coatings of paper ; 
wet the paper ; and press it so that it will make an impervious 
covering. They may then be covered with hot ashes, and baked in 
the nicest manner. They will cook in this way sooner than by 
boiling. 

257. Burns and Scalds. 

In all ordinary cases of burns and scalds the pain can be in- 
stanlly relieved, and the inflammation very soon abated, by cover- 
ing the injured part with flour. 

258. Cockroaches 

It is said that red wafers, scattered in the places they infest, will 
destroy them. They may also be caught readily in vessels partly 



KiTOHEKT Miscellany. 215 

Eats and Mice — Cracked Iron — Iron CooTiing Utensils — Copper Vessels. 

filled with molasses. The roots of black hellebore is also said to 
destroy them. 

259. Rats and Mice. 

When these pests of the kitchen are troublesome, and " puss" 
is not on duty, they may often be very soon disposed of by the fol- 
lowing strategy : Put a barrel with a little meal' in it, in a place 
where they " most do congregate." After having been fed long 
enough to relieve the " oldest and most experienced rat" of his sus- 
picions, till the barrel one third or half full with water, and sprinkle 
the meal two or three inches deep on the top of it. In some cases 
a dozen or more are thus caught in a night. 

260. Cracked Iron. 

When an iron vessel, stove, or stove-pipe is cracked, the opening 
may be stopped with a cement made of ashes, salt, and water. 

261. Iron Cooking Utensils. 

There is a prevalent error that iron rust is not only harmless, but 
really healthful, arising from the fact that physicians frequently 
prescribe it as a tonic. It is, nevertheless, a regular drug poison. 
Iron uten;-ilsfor cooking purposes should, therefore, always be kept 
perfectly dry when not in use ; and whenever rust — which is an 
oxide of the metal — does form, it should be removed by scouring 
with soap and sand. 

262. Copper Vessels. 

Vinegar and all other acids corrode copper utensils, forming ver- 
digris and other violently poisonous oxides and salts. Every kind 
of oil and fat also acts on copper, forming poisonous carbonates of 
the metal. Persons have been poisoned by eating broths and soups 
which have been allowed to remain some time in copper boilers. 
All copper vessels used in cooking, therefore, should be imme- 
diately cleaned of every corroding ingredient, and nothing of the 
kind should ever be kept in them a moment after it is cooked. 

In 1753, the senate of Sweden prohibited the employment of 
copper vessels for culinary purposes. 

Tinning the inside of copper utensils, after they are manufactured. 



216 Hydkopathic Cook-Book. 

Leaden Vessels — Tin Cooking Utensils — Zinc Vessels. 

prevents their oxidation, and the consequent injurious effects. But 
even here we are liable to be defrauded, for manufacturers have 
been known, in some cases, to have mixed lead with the tin, to 
cheapen the material, and make it work more easily. 

263. Leaden Vessels. 

Utensils of lead are seldom or never employed for culinary pur- 
poses ; yet it was once the custom in some parts of England to keep 
milk in lead pans. Vats of lead have been used in cider-making 
countries; brewing coppers have sometimes been lined with lead; 
and the glazing of some kinds of earthenware, in which pickles 
are made, is made with oxide of lead. All of these are dangerous, 
and to be avoided if possible. 

264. Tin Cooking Utensils. 

Tin-ware cooking utensils, as saucepans^ tea-kettles^ etc., are 
sheets of iron coated over, or plated with tin. The same remark 
applies to hlock tin. As tin does not rust itself, and prevents the 
iron from rusting, and as it resists great heat and changes of tem- 
perature, its advantages are obvious. Tin vessels, however, require 
to be carefully watched, and not used after the tinning has worn 
off. To prevent the tin from being rubbed off, the vessels should 
be rubbed, when necessary, with the finest whiting, powdered, 
mixed with a drop of sweet oil, and afterward dusted with the dry 
powder, and this cleaned off with shamois leather. 

The reason that tin vessels appear to rust when kept in a damp 
place is, because, in some places, the iron is imperfectly covered. 
They should, -therefore, be kept dry. 

265. Zinc Vessels. 

This metal is not much used in tue domestic economy of cooking, 
and should not be. A patent was once taken out in this country 
for an improved milk pan made of zinc. Among its pretended 
advantages were the effects of '• causing the milk to throw up more 
cream, and to prevent it from turning sour" — results owing to the 
presence of acetate of zinc, formed by the action of the milk on 
the metal. 



Kitchen Miscellany. 217 

Brass, German Silver, Pewter, and Britannia — Fruit Stains — Iron and Ink. 



266. Brass Cooking Utensils. 

Brass is a mixture of zinc and copper, and was formerly much 
used in the manufacture of cooking utensils. Recently it has been 
nearly superseded by tinned iron. Brass vessels, when employed, 
however, require all the precautions appertaining to copper. 

267. German Silver. 

This is composed of copper, arsenic, and nickel, and is oxidized 
by acids. Hence the spoons made of this material should never 
be used in cooking processes ; indeed, they ought not to be used 
at all. 

268. Pewter Dishes. 

These are, also, nearly out of date. This metal is an alloy of tin, 
lead, and antimony, and easily acted on by acids, and acid fruits. 
The danger to be apprehended from their use is very nearly in pro- 
portion to the lead employed ; and as this is the cheaper material, 
the manufacturer has some inducement to cheat, and the customer 
a corresponding risk of being poisoned. The safest way is to let 
them alone. 

269. Britannia Metal. 

This is a compound of block tin, antimony, copper, and brass. 
It is not liable to corrosion by acids, and is safe for all the purposes 
to which it is usually applied — the manufacture of teapots, mea- 
sures, spoons, etc. 

270. Fruit Stains. 

These can often be removed by wetting the stain with ammonia. 
Diluted muriatic acid — two parts water to one of the acid — will 
frequently succeed. Soak the stained part two or three minutes, 
and rinse in cold water. 

271. Iron Mold and Ink Spots. 

Wet the spots with milk, and then cover them with common 
salt^— washing the garments afterward. Delicate fabrics, when 
stained with ink, are :ften restored by dipping them in melted 
tallow. 

10 



218 Hydeopathic Cook-Book. 

Promiacuous Eeceipta— Dresses on Fire — "Water-proof Cement 



272. Papered Walls. 

To clean them without injuring the paper, gently sweep off the 
dust, and rub thera with soft muslin cloth. Stale bread is better still. 

273. Painted Wood. 

Put a very little sal-soda in the water, and wash the paint with 
flannel and soft soap • then wash oif the soap, and wipe with clean 
linen. 

274. Starch and Paste. 

Poland and flour starch should be first stirred smoothly into cold 
water; boiling water should then be poured on gradually, with 
constant stirring, until sufficiently thinned, after which it should 
be boiled a few minutes. In making common paste the flour should 
be managed in the same way. 

275. Trays, Knives, and Forks. 

Never pour hot water on tea trays nor salvers : nor put the 
handles of knives or forks into hot water. It will destroy the 
polish, and loosen the handles. 

276. Frozen Potatoes. 

More starch or flour can be obtained from frozen potatoes than 
from fresh ones. When potatoes are accidentally frozen, therefore, 
this hint may be turned to good account. 

277. Dresses on Fire. 

When one's clothes have caught fire, the only safe method of 
proceeding is to smother it. If the lower garments are on fire, sit 
upon them : if the upper ones, throw around a blanket, shawl, etc. 

278. Water-proof Cement. 

Mix equal parts of vinegar and milk ; turn ofl" the whey, and 
mix with it five eggs ; beat the whole together ; then add sifted 
quicklime till it acquires the consistency of a thick paste. This 
cement resists the action of water, and also of fire to a high de- 
gree ; and is hence verv useful in mending cracked ware, broken 
vessels, etc 



Kitchen Miscellany. 219 

Fire-proof Cement— Eeady Kat-trap — Cheap "Water-proof Paste. 

279. Fire-proof Cement. 

Make a pailful of whitewash in the usual manner ; add two 
pounds of brown sugar, three pounds of fine salt, and one pound 
of alum. Mix them thoroughly. This cemput may be used on 
fences, the roofs of houses, around fireplaces, etc., as a protection 
against fire. 

280. Ready Rat-trap. 

Fill a smooth kettle to within five or six inches of the top with 
water; cover the surface with bran or chaff; place it where the 
animals are infestuous. and many of them will fall into the water 
and drown. 

281. Cheap Water-proof Paste. 

Mix oil or lard with fine pieces of India-rubber ; simmer over a 
slow fire until incorporated to the consistency of paste. 



Stihx, 



Pnge 

Acetic acid 42 

Acids, organic 42 

Acorn 59 

Adulterations in flour 5i) 

Aku, or aker 68 

Alburuen 44 

Alimentary principles 24 

Alimentary canal 189 

Aliments 43 

Alligator S3 

Almond oil 42 

Almonds 57 

Analysis of food . . , 22 

Anchovy pear 63 

Angelica 94 

Animal albumen 44 

Animal casein 45 

Animal fibrin '14 

Animal food 9T, 206 

Animal jelly 45 

Anise 94 

Apples 63 

Apple bread 163 

Apple cheese 211 

Ap]>le cream 209 

Apple custard 184 

Ai)ple pie 179 

Apiiles, prepared 201 

Apples, preserved Ill 

Apricots 61 

Apricots, prepared 203 

Arrow-root gruel 190 

Arrow-root starch 39 

Artichoke 83 

Artichoke, Jerusalem 198 

Ascending filter 31 ' 

Asparagus 89, 198 

Aurantiaceous fruits 74 

Avocado pear S3 

Bacon 44. 97 

Baked apple pudding 185 

Balm 94 

Bananas 83 

Barberry 72 

Barley 52 

Barley apple puilding 182 

Barlev brolh V 192 

Barley-meyl 22 

Barley soup 192 

Basil 94 

Bass 104 

Bean porridge 175 

Beans 22, 56 

Beans and peas, dried 187 

Beef 98, 206, 207 

Beets, cooked 198 



Pace 

Beet-root 86 

Beet tops 91 

Berried fruits 70 

Berry puddings 185 

Bilberry 71 

Birds 97 

Bitter almonds 57 

Biscuits 164 

Blackberries 81, 204 

Blackberry pie ISl 

Black-fish 104 

Black bread 53 

Black currant 70 

Blanc-mange 46 

Bleaching sirups 37 

Blciod in flesh 100 

Hlul)ber 43 

Blueberry 72 

Blotches, cutaneous 44 

Boletus 97 

Box filtering apparatus 33 

Bracotte 107 

Brains, as food 44 

Brass cooking utensils 217 

Brazil nut 58 

Breads 148 

Breads, digestibility of 153 

Breads, fermented 151, 161 

Bread fruit , 83 

Bread-making 150, 165 

Bread pie crust 178 

Bread pudding 182 

Breads, raised 152, 161 

Breads, unleavened 150, 160 

Britannia metal 217 

Broccoli 90, 199 

Broth, vegetable 192 

Brown bread, sweet 163 

Brussels sprouts 91 

Buds 89 

Buckwheat 55 

Buckwheat cakes 167 

Bufl-alo berry 72 

Burnet , . . 91 

Burns and scalds 314 

llutcher's meat 22 

Butter 42, 107 

Butter cakes 44 

Butternut 57 

Cabbage 90, 199 

Cakes 164 

Calcium 27 

Callipee 103 

Candies 36 

Canna starch 3S 

Cantaloupe 77 



222 



Index. 



Page 

Caraway 94 

Carbim 26 

Canloon 89 

Carnivora 94 

Carrots 22, & , 197 

Carrot pie 179 

Cashew-nut 5S 

Cask filters 32 

Casein 44 

Caseum 45 

Cassava bread 38 

Caterpillars 104 

Cattle 97 

Cauliflowers 90, 199 

Celerj' 91 

Cement, fire-proof 219 

Cemi'nt, water-proof 21S 

Cereal grains 49 

Cheese 44, 107 

Chemical elements 24, 25 

Chenopodium 93 

Chestnuts 67, 109, 1ST 

Cherries 162, 203 

Cherry jam 211 

Chicken 102 

Chickory 91 

Chives 89 

Chlorine 27 

Christmas pudding 183 

Churning 107 

Chvlificalion 138 

Chvraifieation 129 

Cistern filtering 81 

Citric acid 42 

Citron 75 

Clams 104 

Cleansing filters 32 

Cob-nut 5S 

Cockle 104 

Cockroaches 214 

Cockroaches, story of xii 

Cocoa-nut 5S 

Cocoa-nut drops 169 

Codfish 104 

Compound aUments 21 

Common salt 27 

Concentrated milk 108 

Confectionery 86 

Cook-book makers ix 

Cooking utensils 215, 217 

Cooling water 35 

Copper vessels 215 

Coriander 94 

Cork filters 32 

Corn cream cake 166 

Corn-meal muffins 169 

Corn, parched 186 

Corn salad 91 

Corn starch 3S 

Com starch blanc-mange 175 

Cottage pudding 1 84 

Cowslips 91 

Cov^-tree 4S 

Crabs 104 

Cracked iron 215 

Cracked whi at t lush 1 78 



Pa?e 

Cracked wheat pudding 182 

Cranberries 72, 204 

Cranberry tart 18C 

Cream 107 

Cream toast 171 

Cress 91 

Crumpets 169 

Crustaceans 104 

Cucumber and gambo soup 193 

Cucumbers 76, 199 

Cucumbers in tubs 214 

Cummin 94 

Curd cheese 210 

Currants 70, 205 

Currant bread 163 

Currant jelly 190 

Currant pie 181 

Custard pie 180 

Custard pudding 185 

Custard without eggs 209 

Dandelion 91 

Dates 63 

Deer-weed 91 

Defecation 148 

Deglutition 124 

Dewberry 62 

Diet, philosophy of 15 

Digestibility of breads 153 

Digestion 120 

Digestive apparatus 144 

Digestive processes 121 

Dill 93 

Distillery milk 106 

Dock 93 

Dresses on fire 218 

Dried beans and peas 187 

Dried fruit pies ISl 

Dried peas yeast 160 

Drupes 60 

Dried toast 171 

Ducks 103 

Durion 82 

East Indian arrow-root 40 

Eels 44, 104 

Eggs 104 

Eggs, volk of 44 

Eggs, cooked 208 

Egg plant 203 

Elements of food 24 

Elderberry 73 

End ive 91 

JInlarged liver 103 

Ergot 53 

Eruptions 44 

Erysipelas 44 

Esculent roots 84 

Essence of milk 108 

Fanov dishes. . , 209 

Farina gruel 190 

Fariiia mush 175 

I'^ariua pudding 184 

Fat 42,101 

Fat pork 44 

FMttitiing 146 

Kccal accumulations 144 

Feiitib 98 



Index. 



223 



Page 

Permeat 15T, 159 

Fermentalion 148 

Fermented brotida 161, 161 

Ferns 94 

Fibrin 44 

Figs 78 

Fig ami cocoa-nut pudding I'^t! 

Filberts 58, 109 

Fillratiiin, of sugar 3T 

Filtration, of water 29 

Fish 97, 104, 207 

Fire-proof cemc-nt 219 

Fire, remedies for ,214, 218 

Flannel filter 30 

Flesh, lean 99 

Fleshy fruits 59 

Flour, adulterated 154 

Flour and potato rolls 168 

Flour, quality of 154 

Flour yeast 160 

Food 48 

Forks 218 

Fowl 103 

Frost cakes 172 

Fruit cake 172 

Fruit pies, dried 181 

Fruits, prepared 2Ul 

Fruits, classified 50 

Fruits, preserved Ill 

Fruit stains 217 

Fungin 41 

Fumet 103 

Gambo 76 

Game, high 26 

Garden cress 91 

Garlic 89 

Geese 103 

Gelatin 45 

German silver 217 

Glue 46 

Gluten 45 

Gooseberries 70, 204 

Gooseberry pie 181 

Graham bread 162 

Grains and seeds 186 

Grains of starch 88 

Grapes 73, 205 

Grape sirup 211 

Grasshopper 104 

Grease 42 

Green beans, boiled 187 

Green bean soup 192 

Green corn 54, 1()9 

Green corn, boiled 188 

Green corn, masted 188 

Green corn pudding 185 

Green peas 56 

Green peas, boiled 187 

Green peas soup 191 

Greens 199 

Griddle cake 167 

Groat gruel. 190 

Groats , 52 

Grouse 103 

Grub worm . , 104 

Gruels 189 



Guava 

Gum 

Haddock 

Halibut 

Hand mills 

Hashes 

Hawk 

Hazel-nut 

Herbivorous animals 21 

Herrings 44, 

High diet 

Hirse 

Hogs 

Hominy 54, 

Hominy porridge 

Hominy pudding 

Hop yeast 

Honey 

Horse chestnut 

Hydrogen 

Hydropathic crumpets 

Ice houses 

Improved jumballs 

Indian corn 

Indian cress 

Indian-meal cake 

Indian-meal mush 

Indian-meal gru'?' 

Indian-meik' pudding 

Indiaii pancakes 

Indian slappers 

Infanticide 

Ink spots 

Insalivation , 

Insects, as food 

Iron 



82 

33 

104 

104 

51 

44 

102 

58 

,98 

104 

118 

55 

97 

174 

176 

183 

158 

8T 

57 

26 

169 

116 

17," 

S4 

94 

164 

174 

189 

183 

168 

167 

106 

217 

122 

104 

27 

Iron, cracked 215 

Iron cooking utensils 215 

Iron mold 217 

Italian wheat 55 

Jam, cherry 211 

Jar, filter 33 

Jelly 42 

Jelly, animal 45, 46 

Jelly, currant 190 

Jerusalem artichoke 198 

Johnny cake 164 

Jii(ube 83 

Juvia 83 

Jumballs 172 

Juniper berries 73 

Kidneys, as food 101 

Kitchen miscellany 213 

Knives and forks 218 

Lacteals 141, 142 

Lactic acid 42, 107 

Lactometer 106 

Lake water 29 

Lamb lettuce 91 

Lard 42, 44, 98 

Lavender 94 

Leaden vessels 216 

Leaven 157 

Leeks 89 

Legumes 66 

Lemon 76 



224 



Index. 



Lentils 22, 50 

Luprosy 44 

Lettuce 9t 

Lichens 95 

l^iebig criticised 26 

Liirnin 41 

Lima beans 56, 109 

Limes 83 

Livers 44,101 

Liver disease 44 

Lc.lh-ter 104 

cocusts 104 

Love apple 76 

Li.wdiet 118 

Lozenges 36 

Macarnni snow pudding 183 

M!ic4i;trel lo4 

Madeira-nuts 58 

JIairnesium 27 

Maize 54 

Maize-meal 22 

Maiiinia S3 

Mango S8 

Mangostan 84 

Manua 37 

Marji irain 93 

Marmalade 2ii3 

Marrow 42 

Marrow pudding 44 

Marsh water 29 

Mastication 123 

Meal, quality of 177 

Me<ilar 69 

Melons 77 

Milk 48,105 

Milk, baked 212 

Milk biscuit 169 

Milk, concentrated 108 

Milk, distillery 106 

Milk, essence of 108 

Milk porridge 176 

Milk risings 158 

Milk toast' 171 

Milk, vegetable 48 

Millet 55 

Mineral water 29 

Mints 93 

Moist rice bread 168 

Molasses 87 

Molasses cake 106 

!Molded fariuacea 175 

Mollusks 104 

Morel 97 

Midberry 79 

Muscle 99, 101 

Mushes 173 

Mushrooms 95 

Musk 77 

^Mussels 104 

Mustard 91 

Mutton 9S, 206 

Nasturtium 93 

Nectarine 61 

New Zealand spinach 92 

Nitrogen 26 

Nuts 57 



fage 

Nut oils 43 

Nutriment in food 22 

Nutrition 118 

Oatmeal — nats 22, 52 

Oatmeal cake 167 

Oatmeal gruel 189 

Oatmeal mush 174 

Oatmeal porridge 176 

Oil. as food 101 

Okra 76 

Oleaginous seeds 57 

Olive — olive oil 42 - 

Omnivorous animals 21, 97 

Onions 89, 197 

Orange 74 

Organic acids 42 

Organization and diet 21 

Osmazorae 105 

Ostrich 103 

Oven, new kind of 213 

Oxalic acid 42 

Oxvgen 26 

Ovster plant 200 

O} sters 104 

Painted wood 218 

Papaii ;. S3 

Papered wafls 218 

Parched corn 186 

Parched peas 56 

Parslev 91 

Parsn. p 86, 197 

Partridge 102 

Paste 213 

I'aste, water-proof 219 

Pastry 44 

Patent barley 53 

Peach 60 

Peaches, cooked 202 

Peach leather 114 

Peach pies ^ 180 

Peanuts 58, 187 

Pea-meal 56 

Pears 65.202 

Peas 22, 56 

Pearl barley 53 

Pepones 76 

Pewter dishes 217 

Pepper dulse 97 

Philosophy of diet 15 

Phosphorus 26 

Pie crust 177 

Pies 177 

Pilchards 104 

Pineapple 79, 205 

Pineapple Ice cream 210 

Pistachio-nut 53 

Plantain 84 

Plums 61 

Pomaceous fruits 63 

Pomegranate 76 

Population and diet 22 

Pork 98 

Pork cheese viii 

Porridges 173 

Portland arrow-root 40 

Potash, salts of 46 



Index. 



225 



Page 



Potassium 28 

Potato apple dumpling 185 

Potatoes 22, 86 

Potato bread 163 

Potato cake 168 

Potato cheese 214 

Potatoes, cooked 194, 196 

Potato flour 87, 195 

Potato jelly 196 

Potato pie 179 

Potato rot 87 

Potati scones 171 

Potato starch 39 

Potato shortening 195 

Potato, sweet 87 

Potato tops 91 

Potato yeast 158 

Pot cheese 2in 

Pot barley 53 

Poultry 207 

Prawns 104 

Proximate elements 24, 28 

Prepared fruits 201 

Preservation of Foods ^ 109 

Pumpkin bread 163 

Pumpkin pies 178, 179 

Pumpkins 77 

Puddings 177 

Pure water 29 

Quail 162 

Quality of flour 154 

Qninces 67, 203 

Quince marmalade 203 

Itadish 88 

Pain water 29 

liaised bread 152, 161 

Raised Indian cake 164 

Kaised pie crust 178 

liampion 89 

Eape 91 

Raspberries 81, 204 

Raspberry ice cream 210 

Eats and mice 215 

Ready rat trap 219 

Red beet root 22 

Reducing diet 118 

Refining sugar 36 

Relishes 209 

Reptiles 97 

Revolving cask filter 33 

Rhubarb 93 

Rhubarb pie 180 

Rice 22.51 

Rice and apple pudding 184 

Rice and milk mush 175 

Rice and sago porridge 176 

Rice, boiled" 186 

Rice bread 163 

Rice custard 209 

Rice griddle cake 167 

Rice gruel 191 

Rice mush 175 

Rice pudding 1S2 

Rice soup 191 

Rich corn cake 165 

Risings, milk 158 

10* 



River water 

Roasting, in papers 

Robin 

Rnsamble 

Rosemary 

Roots 

Rubs, veast 

Rye.." 

Eye and Indian bread... 

Rye drop cake 

Eye-meal mush 

Sage 

Sago 

Sago and apple pudding. 

Sago gruel 

Sago porridge 

Sago starch grains 

Salad oil 

Salads 

Salmon 

SalsilV 

Salt, t^ble 

Salt of lemons 

Samp 

Samphire 

Sap, of maple 

Sausages 

Savury 

Savory herbs 

Savoys 

Scalded bread 

Scalds and burns 

Scallops 

Schwartzbrut 

Scrofula 

Scurvy 

Sea-kale 

Seasoning herbs 

Sea-water 

Sea-weeds 

Seeds 

Semina 

Shad 

Shallots 

Sheep 

Shell-fish 

Shepherdia 

Shoots 

Shortened biscuit 

Shrimps , 

Silver, German 

Sirup , 

Sirup, grape 

Skirret 

Slapjacks 

Slappers 

Smallage , 

Snails 

Snipe 

Snow-ball pudding 

Snow cream , 

Snow pudding 

Sodium , 

Soft water 

Sole 

Sorrel 



Page 
. 29 
. 216 
. 108 
. 89 
. 94 
. 194 
. 159 
. 53 
. 163 
. 169 
. 174 



.22, 39 



,40 

:j2 

190 
176 



.54, 



91 

104 

200 

27 

93 

174 

94 

86 

44 

94 

93 

,199 

163 

214 

4 

53 

44 

44 

89 

93 

29 

95 

48 

48 

104 

89 

97 

72 

89 
163 
104 
217 

37 
211 

89 
163 
167 

91 
104 
103 
184 
210 
183 

27 

29 
104 

93 



226 



Index. 



Soups 189 

Sour milk biscuit 168 

Sourkront 91 

Spunish-nut 58 

Sparrow grass 89 

Spi<ler8 Ki-t 

S|iinaceous plants 90 

Siiinach 91 

Si'iiiaoh soup 192 

Sjilit peas 56 

S|ilit peas soup 191 

&|)onge, settins the 155 

Spi.iige filter. T 30 

b >"ts", iron and ink 217 

S'pr:,:s 41 

Sjiriug water 29 

Spurred rye 53 

Squashes 77 

Sqiijish pie 179 

Starch 37.218 

Sleam-cooking 213 

Stews 44 

Stains, fruit 217 

Sliiiiulating food lis 

Stone filter 30, 34 

Strawberries 79, •J04 

Strawberry cream 21 n 

Strawberry pie 261 

Strawberry tart 2S1 

String beans 20'i 

Sweet almonds 57 

Sweet apple pudding 184 

Sweet brown bread 163 

Sweet herbs 93 

Sweet oil 63 

Sweet potatoes 87, 196 

Succory 91 

Suceott'ish 188 

Suet 42 

Suet puddings 44 

Sugar T 35 

Sugar, refining 36 

Sulphur 26 

Swine 25 

Tahiti arrow-root 4(* 

Tallow 42 

Tangle 97 

Tansy 93 

Tapioca 39 

Tapioca gniet 190 

Tapioca podding 183 

Tarrago 93 

Tartaric acid 42 

Theory of nutrition 118 

Thyme 93 

Tin cooking utensils 216 

Toadstools 95 

Toast 171 

Tomatoes 76 

Tomatoes, cooked 205 

Tomato soup 191 

Tonic diet 118 

Treacle 37 

Trays 21S 



Trout 104 

TruflSe 96 

Turbot 104 

Turnips 22, 84, 196 

Turkey 102 

Ultimate elements 24 

Unbaked bread cake 170 

Uncooked bread cakes 164 

Uncooked fruit cake 170 

Unleavened bread 150, 100 

Utensils, cooking 215, 217 

Vegetable acidst 42 

Vegetable albumen 44 

Vegetable broth 192 

Vegetalile casein 44 

Velretable fibrin 44 

Vegetable milk 48 

Vegetable marrrow 200 

Vegetables 194 

Vegetarian system 20 

Venison 270 

Vinegar 42 

Vini^ training 74 

Walls, papered 218 

Walnut 6T 

Walnut oil 42 

Water 29 

Water cress 91 

Water-cure wadbs 170 

WatermeliM .. T7 

Wat('r-|>rool' cement 218 

Wedding cake 172 

Well water 29 

Wheat 49 

Wheat-meal 22 

Wheatrincal bread 162 

Wheat-nu'al crackers 164 

W lieat-nieal drop cake 169 

Wlieat-meal fruit biscuit 171 

Wheat-meal griddle cakes 167 

Wheat-meal, grinding of 51 

Wheat-meal gruel 189 

Wheat-meal sweet cake 166 

Wheat-meal wafers 164 

Wheat starch grains 40 

White ants. 104 

White-fish 104, 20T 

Whiting 104 

Whole grains and seeds 186 

Whortleberries 71, 206 

Whortleberry pie 180 

Wild endive 21 

Wild rice 51 

Wood, painted 218 

Woodcock 108 

Wood sorrel 93 

Yams 88 

Tarn filtering 34 

Yeast 157 

Yeast cakes 159 

Yeast, of peas 160 

Yolk of eggs 44 

Zeiger 107 

Zinc vessels 216 



" Books sent, Prepaid, ut Mail, to any Post-officb i.v the United States." 



A LIST OF WORKS 



FOWLEE AND WELLS, 308 BROADWAY,' NEW YOEK. 



In order to accommodate " the people" residing in all parts of the United States, the Pub- 
ishors will forward, by return of the first mail, any book named in the following list. The 
postage will be pre-paid at the New York office. The price of each work, including postage, 
is given, so ihat the exact amount may be remitted. Letters containing orders should be 
post-paid, and directed as follows : FOWLERAND W ELLS, 

308 Broadway, New Yokk. 



\yORKS ON PHRENOLOGY. 



Combe's Lectukes on Phre- 

NOLouY. AronifU'te course. Boundin luusliu, $1 25. 

Chart for Recording various 

Developments. Desifned for Flireiiologists. 6 cents. 

Constitution of Man. By 

Geo. Combe. Authorize'! eilitinn, with Illnstratlons, 
eniliraL'ini; his Portrait. 62 cents ; mnslin, S7 cents. 

Defence of Phrenology', 



Domestic Life, Thoughts on ; 

its Couconl find Dieconl. By N. Sizyr. 15 rents. 

Education Complete. Eni- 

hriiiiii^- Phvsiolosy, Animal md M.'ntnl, Self OaUure, 
an. I Memory. One vol. )iy O. S. Fowler. $2 SO. 

Education, founded on tlie Xa- 

ture ol' M.in. By Dr. Simrzheim. Mualin, J!? cents. 

Familiar Lessons on Pure- 

NoLOoy ANi> Physioi.ooy. ,\n excellent \vu,k for 
Cliililren. Bcantifully llustrated. $1 25. 

Marriage; its History and 

rhilosophy. with Dliections for Happy' Marriages. 
Buunl in paper, 50 cenis; lunolin, "5 cents. 

Matrimony; or, Phrenology 

!in.l Phvsiolosv applied to the Selection of Conse.nial 
Comp.iuii>ns for Life. By O. S. Fowlui. oO cents. 

Memofy' and Intellectual 

iMPiiovKJir.xT i' applii-il to Self Kilncati.n. By 0. S. 
Vowler. Paper, B2 cents ; mnslin, f, cents. 

Moral and Intellectual Sci- 

K.NCti. Uy Combe, Grcj,'ory,aiul (itlH-rs. Miusliu, J2 "0. 



Mental Science, Lectures on, 

accordin;; to the milosophy of Plncnology. By Kev. 
O. S. Weaver. Paper, 62 cents ; musliu, b^ cents. 

Phrenology Proved, Illus- 



PhRENOLOGIC AL J O U R N A L , 

American, Jlouthly, Quai to, Illustrated. A year, $1. 

Phrenology and the Scrip- 

TUKE3. By Kev. John Pierpont. 15 ceiitn. 

Phrenological Guide. De- 

fsigned for the Use of Students. 13 cents. 

Phrenological Alisianac. II- 

Uustinttid with uumeiouy eiif;iavinj;s. 6 cents. 

Phrenological Bust : design- 
ed esperiiiUv for Learners, Rhowf !!■;■ the exact location 
of all (lie OrKsuis ol the Biain fnlly d«?vclopei1. Pitce, 
Including box fi;r packiui^, §1 25. [Not niHilable.j 

Phrenological Specimens for 

Societies and Private Cabinets. -10 casts ; iiett, $25. 

Self- Culture and Perfection 

or CH.ir.ACTi:K. Paper, 02 cents; muslin, S7 cents. 

Self-Instructor in Phrenol- 
ogy and rhy.uolo..-y. llliKtrated with one hundied 
engravings. Paper, 50 cents ; muslin, 50 cents. 

Symbolical Head and Phrc- 

noloRical Chart, in map form, showin;; the N.ituval 
Lil*fe'ua^-e of t!ie Plitenolusical Organs. 30 cents. 

Works of Gall on Piirenol- 

oov. 5 vols., $". Woiks of Spurzheim's, $1 50. 



TtiK Pi:nt,iSHERS would respectfully refer StrauRers, A.;,-cnls, ami Country Dealers to tha principal Pnl.lish. 
in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, or otiicr cities, for evidence of tlieir aliility to fnllill all contracts. They lia 
lieeri many years hefnre the public, enj;a;;eil in the publishin;; Iiusiness in the city of Now York. 



Fowler and Wells' Publications. 



HYDROPATHY; OR, WATER-CURE. 



If TnE People can be thoroufchly indoctrinated In the general principles of Htcropatbt, and make then 
salres acquainted with the Laws of Lifb and Health, they -will wcll-aiga emancipate themselves from a 
need of doctors of any sort. — Dr. Tball, 

By no other way can raeu approach nearer to the gods than by coDferring health on men. — Cicero. 



AOCIDE^^TS AXD EmEKGENCIES. 

By Alfied Sniee. Not..8 by Trail. Illustrated. 15 cents. 

Children ; their Hydropatliic 

Management in lleallh and Disease. Dr. Slicw. f 1 23. 

Cholera ; its Causes, Preven- 
tion, and Care, and all otUer Bowel Comi)laInt3. CO c. 

Consumption ; its Causes, Pre- 

vention and Cure. Paper, G2 cents ; muslin, 67 cents. 

Cook Book, HYDROPATinc. 

With New Recipes. Illustrated. By K. T. Trail, BID. 
Paper, 02 cents ; muslin, S7 cents. 

Curiosities of Comjsion Wa- 
ter. A Medical Woik. From London editlcin. 30 c;s. 

Domestic Practice oe Hy- 

l>RorATHY,\vith V, en^-raved illufitiations of im)pr,rtinil 
subjects fioni drawings. By E. Jolmson, M.D. $1 50. 

Experience in Water-Cure in 

Acute and other Diseases. By Mrs. Nicluils. 30 ots. 

Family Physician, Hydro- 

liathio. Bv Dr. Sliew. A new and invaluable work 
for home practice. Profusely illustrated. $2 50. 

Hydropathic Encyclopedia. 

A Complete System of Hydropatliy and Hye-tene. 1- 
lustraled. By U. T. Trail, M.D. In one large vol- 
ume, with nearly a tliDutand pages. Price, $3. 

Hydropathy; or, Water-Cure. 

Principles and Modes of Treatment. Dr. Shew. $125. 

Home Treatment for Sexual 

.\buses, with rlydi opathic Manafttmi-nt. A practical 
tiealise for both sexes. ByUf. Tiall. CO cents. 

Introduction to the Water- 
cure. With First Principles. 15 cents. 



Midwifery and the Hiseaseu 

OF WOMBK. A practical work. By Dr. Shew. $1 2; 

Parents' Guide and Cheld 

BiRTU Mads East. By Mrs. U. Pendleton. 60 eta 

Philosophy of Water-Cure 

By J. Balbiruie, M.D. A work for beginners. 30 o. 

Practice of Water-Cure. B;; 

Drs. Wilson and Gully. A handy, popular woik. so''. 

Pregnancy and Childbirth 

' Water-Cure fur Wonieu, with cases. SO cents. 

Rp]suLTS OF Hydropathy^ 

By El 

Water-Cure Library , em 

bracing the most important wmka nn the subject. I 
seven largo 12rao vols. A family woik. $7. 

Water-Curb in Chronic Dis 

EASES ; an exposition of the Causes, Prngresa, and Tei 
minalious of Vaiious Chinnic Diseases. By Dr. J. K 
Gully. An important work. $1 50. 

Water and Yegetable Die*: 

in Sciofnlft, Cancer, Asthma, etc. By Dr. Lamb. Note 
by Dr. Shew. 62 cents j muslin, tj7 cents. 

Water-Cure in E^'ery" Knowi 

Disease. By J. H. Kausse. 62 cents ; musiin, s" ctf 

Water-Cure Manual. j^ 

popular work on Hydropathy. 62 cts. ; muslin, 87 cte* 

Water-Cure Almanac. Con- 

taining much important mattsr for all classes. 6 cts 

Water-Cure Journal ani 

Herald of Keforms. Devoted to Hydropathy an. 
Medical Keform. Published Monthly, at $1 a year. 



F0WI.BB AND TVellb have all works on HYORorATUY, Phtsiologt, and the Natural Sciences geDerally. Bock 
sellers supplied on the most liberal terms. Agents wanted In every State, County, and Town. These works ar j 
universally popular, and thousands might be sold where they have never yet beeii introduced. Letters and Order j 
should be post-paid, and directed to the Publishers, as follows : 



[Name the Pon OIBco, Connty, and State.] 



FOWIiER AND WEIil-S, 

308 Broad-stat, New Yokk. 



Fowler and Wells' Plmilicatioxs. 



PHYSIOLOGY, MESMERISM, AND PSYCHOLOGY. 



ON PHYSIOLOGY. 

'Ilcoholio Conteoterst. a 

Review of the jreslminstfr Review on the Physiological 
Eiiors of Xeetotalism. By Dr. Trail. 30 cents. 

i^kiATivEiniss ; or, Evils and 

Rerae.lieB of Excessive and Perverteil SexuaV»y, with 
Advice to the JIanied and Single. 15 cents. 

Dhastity, ill a Course of Lec- 
tures to Yoang Men. By D.'. Graham. 30 cents. 

Jhrootc Diseases, especially 

Nervous Diseases of Women. Inipoi taut work. SO cts. 

Oombe's Physiology, applied 

to the Improveniont of Mental and Physical Educa- 
tion. Kotos by Fowler. 02 cents ; muslin, 87 cents. 

Complete Gymnasitoi. A pro- 
fusely illustrated work. Being the application of 
Gymnastic, Calistheni.-, Kinesipathio, and Vocal Ex- 
evcUes to the Development of Boiiy and Mind, and the 
Cure of Disease. By R. T. Trail, M.D. $1 50. 

Digestion, Physiology or. 

The Piindiilea of Dietetics. By Andrew Combe. 30 cts. 

Family Dentist; a Popular 

Treatise on the Teetli. By D. C. Warner, M.D. S7 cts. 

Food aisD Diet ; containing an 

Analvsis of every kind of Food and Drink. By Dr. J. 
PereiVa. Paper, fl ; muslin, $1 25. 

Fruits and Farinacea tlie 

Proper Food of Man. Witli Notes and enjiaved Il- 
lustrations. By K. T. Trail. M.D. Muslin, $1 25. 

Generation, Pliilosopliy of; 

its Abuses, Causes, Prevention, and Cure. oO cents. 

HEREDrr ARY Descent : its Laws 

and Pacts a|.plied to Unman Improvement. O. S. F. 
Kew Edition. Paper, 63 cents ; muslin, i-; cents. 

Int'Ancy; or, the Physiologi- 

cal and Moral Manasenient of Children. Illustiated. 
By Dr. Combe. Paper, 62 cents ; muslin, 87 cents. 

Love and Parentage ; applied 

to the Impiovement of Oflspiin;?. 30 cents. 

Maternity; or, tlie Bearing 

and Xursiuir of Chililren. inclndins; Female Kduca- 
ti'in. 0. S. Fowler. 62 cents ; muslin, 87 cenls. 

Natural Laws of Man. By 

Di. Spnrzheim. A good work. 30 cents. 

Philosophy of Sacred Histo- 

,Y, consi.lere<l in Relatinn to Human Aliment and the 
.Vines of Scri'jture. By t^ylvester Graham. $2. 

Physiology, Animal and Men- 
tal, applied to Health of Body and Power of Mind. By 
O. S. Fowler. Paper, 62 cents ; musliu, 6' cents. 



KEPRODUcrrvE Organs ; their 

Diseases, Causes, and Cure Hydropathically. 15 sts. 

Sexual Diseases; their 

Canses, Prev«nti(>n, and Cure on Physiolo.^ical Prin- 
ciples. Including practical directions for home treat- 
ment. $1 25. 

Sober and Temperate Life; 

with Notes and Illustrations by Louis Cornaro. 30 cts. 

Syringes, Patent LijectingLi- 

struments, best in maiicet. Various styles auil prices. 

The Science of Human Life, 

By Sylvester Graham, M.D. With a Portrait and Bi- 
ographical Sketch of the Author. $2 50. 

Tea and Coffee ; their Physi- 
cal, Intellectual, and Mor.al ElVects. By Alcotl. 15 cts. 

Teeth ; their Structure, Dis- 

case, and Manaifemeut, with Engravings. 15 cents. 

Tobacco ; its Efiect on the 

Body and Mind. By Dr. Shew. 30 cents. 

Tobacco : three Prize Essays. 

By Drs. Trail and Shew, and Eev. D. B.ildwiu. 15 cts. 

Tobacco, Use of ; its Physical, 

Intellectual, and Moral Effects. ByAlcott. l.i cents. 

Uterine Diseases and Dis- 

PLACEMKNTS. A Practical Treatise on the various 
Diseases, Malpositiims, and Structural Deranj;ement« 
of the litems and its ApiJeudages. By Dr. Trail. Il- 
lustrated with coioi-ed engravings, $5 j not colored, $2. 

Yegetable Diet, as sanctioned 

by Medical Men and E.-iperiem-e in all Ar.'es. By Dr. 
Alcott. Paper, 63 cents ; muslin, 87 cents. 



MESMERISM-PSYCHOLOGY. 

Electrical Psychology, Phi- 
losophy of, in Twelve Lectures. By Dr. J. ". DjJa. 
Paper, 62 cents ; muslin, h7 cents. 

Fascination ; or, the Philoso- 

l)hy of Charming (Magnetism). Illustrating the Plin- 
cii'les of Lite. Paper, 50 cents ; muslin, S7 cents. 

Library of Mesmerism and 

Psychology. With suitable lllp«*iati<ms. In two 
. large volumes of about 900 iiages. Price, f3. 

Macrocosm and Microcosm ; 

or. the Universe Without and the Universe Witliin. By 
Fishbough. Scientilic Work. 62 cts. ; muslin, 87 cts. 

Philosophy of Mes:sierism and 

ClaiuvoyasCE. Six Lectures, With Instruction. 30 c. 

Psychology ; or, the Science 

of the S"Ul. By Haddock. Illustrated. 30 cents. 



Either of these works may be ordered and received by retui-n of the Fikst Mail, postage prepaid by the Pub- 
I VIshers. Please address all letters, post-paid, to FOWIiER. AND "WEIjIiS, 

N. B.— Name your Post Office, County, and State. 308 BrOADWAT, New ToeK. 



Fowler and Wells' Publications. 



PHONOGRAPHIC AND MISCELLANEOUS. 



"When single copies of theao works are wanted, the amount, In postage stamps, small change, or bank-notes 
may be inclosed iu a letter and sent to the Publishers, who will forward the books by return of the First Mai'u 



miscs llano us. 
Aims and Aids for Giels and 

YouNu Women. By Kev. G. S. Weaver. Price, s7 c. 

Botany foe all Classes ; con- 

taitiiug a Floral Dk-tioimry, with mimerons Illustra- 
tions. Paper, 02 cents ; niufiliu, 87 cents. 

Chemistry, applied to Pliysi- 

ology, Agriculture, and CumuiL-rce. By Liobi^. 2j els. 

Demands of the Age on Col- 

LKUKS. An Orntion. By Horace Mann. 25 cents. 

Delia's Doctors ; or, a Glance 

ISeliiml tlie Scenes. Bv Miss Hiinnah Gardner Creamer. 
*\ir the Family. Pa]ier, 02 ceiila ; musliu, 87 cents. 

Hints toward Reforms, in 

Lectures, AJdresses. and otlier Writings. By II. 
Greeley. Second editiiin, with Crystal Palace. $125. 

Home foe All ; the Gravel 

Wall, a New, Cheap, and Si 
witli Euyravinss, plans, Vi. 

Hopes and Helps foe the 

YoL'No OF Both Skxes. By Kpv. G. S. "Weaver. An 
excellent work. Paper, 62 cents; muslin, b7 cents. 

How to "Write ; A Pocket 

M.-»nuaI cif Composition and Letter- Writing. Inval- 
uable t(? the young. Paper, 30 cents ; muslin, ."io cents. 

How to Talk ; A Pocket 

Wiinnal of Conversation an<i Debate, with nmrc tlian 
Five Hundred Common Mistakes in Speaking, Cor- 
recleil. Paper, 30 cenlB ; muslin, 50 cents. 

How to Behave; A Pocket 

Manual of Republican Etiquette, and Guide to Correct 
Personal Habits, wllW Kules lor Debating Societies 
and Deliberative Assemblies. 30 cts.j muslin, 50 cts. 

How TO Do Business ; A Pock- 
et Manual of Prarlical Affairs, and a Guide to Success 
in Lile, Willi a Collection of Le;;al and Commercial 
Formn. Suitable for all. 30 cents ; muslin, 50 cents. 

IIand-Books for Home lai- 



' liow to Do Basil) 



I one laige volume. $1 60. 



Human Pights, and their Po- 

litical Guarantees. By Judge Ilnrlbut. An important 
■work. Paper*, 62 cents j musliu, bT cents. 



iMilOETALITY TEITJlMPnANT. — ' 

The E.xiisteuce of a God, with the Evidence. By Kev. 
J. B. Dods. Paper, 62 cents ; muslin, 87 cents. 

Kanzas Region; Embracing^ 

Descriptions of Scenery, Climate, Productions, Soil, ] 
and Kesuurces of the Territory. Interspeised with ,- 
Incidents of Travel. By Max Greene. 30 cents. 

Life Illusteated. A l^^ew• 

FiiHt-Claes Pictorial Weekly Family Newspaper, de- 
voted to News, Literature, Science, the Arts, etc. 
Per year, in advance, $2 ; half a year, $1. 

Population, Theoky of. The ' 

Law of Animal Fertility. Introduction by Trail. 15 cts. j 

Power of Kindness ;%nculcat-j 

ting the Christian Principles of Love over Physical ; 
Force. Paper, 30 cents ; muslin, 50 cents. j 

Science of Swimiviing ; giving [ 

practical instruction to learners. 12 cents. - 

Temperance Reformation ; its ' 

History from the First Temperance Society to th< 
Adoption of the JIaine Law. By Annslrong. *1 25. 

Ways of Life; the Right Way : 

and the Wiong Way. By Rev. G. S. Weaver. A cap- , 
ital work. Paper, 50 cents ; musliu, 60 cents. i 



ON PHONOGRAPHY. 



Hon. Thomas H. Benton said, when presented with 
a verbatim report of one of his speeches, taken by a 
little boy, *' Had Phonography been known forty years 
ago, it would have saved ine twenty years ofJiard labor.*^ 

Phonogeaphig Teachee ; being 

an Inductive Exposition of Phonography, intended lor 
a school-book, and to afl'oid complete instruction to 
those who have not the assistance of an Oral Teacher. 
By E. Webster. In boards. 45 cents, 

Eeportek's Manual. A com- 

plete Kxposition of the Eeporting Style of Phonogta- 
phy. By .Uulrew J. Graham. Boards, 62 rents. 

Also, the Works of Pitman, 

Longley, Bootli, and others, on riiouography. 



TnKSE works may be ordered In large or small gnantlties. A liberal discount will be made to Aoents, and others, 
who buy to sell again. They may be sent by Express or as Freigbt, by Railroad, or otherwise, to any place In the 
United States, the Canadas, Europe, or elsewhere. Checks or drafts, for large amounts, on New York, Philadelphia, 
or Boston, always preferred. We pay cost of exobanse. Ail letters should be i)oet-paid, and addiessed as follows : 

fowijER and "\VEI.1^S, 

(Name the Post Office, County, and fMe.] 30S BrOADWAT, New YoeK. 



H94 75 






c~ * 











-^0 


























-^^0^ 









v^s- 



v^^ 




<" 






» ,* ' 






















v^ ,. 



..^^ •:!^im't %/■ :' 
















^"-^^ 



'^'S 
-^^ 



\^^ 



\'^ .. -^ 




o^- 



.v>>. 






■S^r 



/5^>% 






^o 






0^ <•'■'*♦ o 



•j.^ 







V. . C" .W??5.-. -^ W" 



