Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



"■Hlfl" 



r 




PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



•f 



• 4 




L^^-^^-^cc^/ 



PRACTICAL 



AVD 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



WITH A SBSIES OF 



BILLS OF FARE. 



ALSO, 

DIEECTIONS ON CAEVING, TBTJSSING, &c. 



BT 

MRS. SMITH, 



FOBTT YEABS FBOFESSED COOK TO MOST OF THE LEADING FAMILIES 

IN THE METBOPOUS. 



LONDON : 

CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY. 

1858. 



TO lADY CAEROLL 



Permit me thus publicly to thank you for the honour 
of allowing me to dedicate my book to you, as I am 
anxious to secure your ladyship's approbation and patron- 
age, in conjunction with many honoured and influential 
families in this great metropolis, who, with yourself, are 
well acquainted with the extended practice I have had in 
the art of cooking for upwards of forty years. I feel the 
more confident of your approval from the fact that I had 
the honour to serve the dinners, &c., during the mayoralty 
of Sir George Carroll, and from" the assurance that on 
those occasions I gave both you and the nobility and 
gentry present every satlsfjiction, which the flattering 
testimonials I then received abundantly testify. 

I rely on your ladyship's excellent judgment, and on 
the judgment of those ladies who may honour me by 
reading my work, to excuse the plainness of the style, as, 
in compliance with the wish of my numerous friends, I 
have studied to express myself so as to be understood by 
the meanest capacity, and think myself honoured in being 
allowed the privilege of subscribing myself 

Your ladyship's 

Obliged and humble servant, 

Ann Smith. 



PREFACK 



Haying seen the great want of a work on plain and 
practical cookery^ I was induced to bring my receipts 
be&re the public. My long experience and practice, 
together with the patronage I have so long enjoyed, will 
of itself be sufficient proof as to my ability to write such 
a book. I admit there are a number of books already 
in print upon thia subject^ some of which have been 
popular in their day — but as the art of cooking, Hke every 
oth^ art, in course of time changes, and in this age of 
progress improves — so I am led to believe my work will 
show great progress in this important art. 

The only favour I have to beg of the public is not to 
censure my work before they have made trial of the re- 
ceipts therein contained, which I am persuaded, if care- 
fully followed and worked to the receipt, wiU answer their 
expectations. 

I can faithfuUy assure my friends that they are written 
entirely from my own experience and practice, and not 
borrowed from any other author, but truly the cookery as 
practised by myself daily; nor are they glossed over with 
hard words, but written in my own plain language. 

In addition to the receipts for cooking, I have intro- 



PRACTICAI AND ECONOMWAL COOKERY. 



w 



•♦ 



• * 



• i 



Xll LIST OF SUBSCKIBERS. 

Davies, Dr., 23, Finsbory-square. 

Derby, Miss, 2, Gteorge-street, Fortman-scLuare. 

Dipnall, Mrs., Leytonstone, Essex. 

Dorrell, Miss, 2, Nottingham-place. 

Downes, John, Esq., Warden of the Salters' Company. 

DowBon, Mrs., 22, St. Mark's-crescent, Begent's-park. 

Duke, Sir James, Bart., M.F., Portland-place. 

Dunbar, Duncan, Esq., .'30, Forchester-terrace, Bayswater. 3 copies. 

Earl, Mrs., Harley-street, Bow-road. 

Ellis, Mrs., Nottingham-place, New-road. 

Fairer, Mrs., Cheam, Surrey. 

Fenn, Ford, Esq., Warden of the Salters' Company. 

Flindall, Miss, Baines' Asylum, St. George's East. 

Foot, Mrs. Joseph, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire. 

Forge, Mrs., Harley Cottage, Bow-road. 

Foulger, Mrs., Oliyer's-terrace West, Bow-road. 2 copies. 

Friend, Mrs., 30, Sussez-square, Hyde-park. 

Gardener, Mrs. Thomas, Mile-End-road. 2 copies. 

Gill, Dr., Bow-road. 

Gillespy, Thomas, Esq., Warden of the Salters' Company. 

Gilmore, Mrs., The Priory, Walthamstow, Essex. 

Glasscock, Mrs. Edmund, Roffey Hall, Harlow, Essex. 

Glasscock, Mrs. William, 2, Granyille-terrace, Lewisham. 

Goulding, Robert, Esq., Warden of the Salters' Company. 

Greene, Mrs. B. B., 25, Kensington Palace-gardens. 2 copies, 

Greenwell, Mrs., 20, Park-square, Regent's-park. 

Greives, Mrs., 24, Haverstock-hill. 2 copies^ 

Hacon, Mrs., 3, Oliver's-terrace East, Bow-road. 

Hammack, Mrs., Boxlands, Surrey. 

Hanley, Mrs., Stoke Newington-green. 

Harnett, Mrs., 41, RusseU-square. 

Heilbronne, Mrs. William, Bow-road. 

Hill, A. L., Esq., Warden of the Salters' Company. 

Hilleary, Mrs., Ilford-road, Essex. 2 copies. 

Hitchcock, H. W., Esq., 17, Leinster-gardens, Hyde-park. 

Hitchcock, Mrs. Charles, Homsey. 2 ccpies. 



USX OF SUBSCBIBEBS. XIU 

Hobbs, Mrs., Montpelier Houae, Stepney-graen. 
Holt, Mrs. John, 12, Canton-place, East Indurzoad. 
Howard, Mrs., Bruce-grove, Tottenham. 2 copies* 
Judkins, Mrs., 49, Euston-square. 
Kemp, Miss, 1, Park Promenade, Cheltenhaai, 
KoUe, Mrs., Tottenham-greexL 
Lance, Mrs., 8, Osnaburg-terrace, Begent's-park. 
Letheby, Dr., 8, Eang-street, Finabary-BquaEe. 
Lewis, Mrs. Frederick, Avenue-road, St. John'8-<wood. 
Lindsay, Mrs., 7, Stanhope-tenace, Hyde-poxk. 2 eqptst. 
Llewellyn, Dr., Assembly-row, Mile-end. 
Mackreth, Mrs., 1, Clifton Villas, Maida-yale. 
Magnus, Mrs., 10, New Finchley-roady St. JohnVwood. 
Martin, Mrs. C, 2, Wellington-road, Bow-road. 
Mathews, Mrs., Albany-street, BegenVg-park. 
Mathewson, Mrs., 4, Cleveland-square, Hyde-park. 
Millard, Bev. B., Jamaica. 3 copiea, 
Milley, Mrs., 46, Albany-street, Begent's-park. 
MUls, Mrs., Sutgrove House, Glouceatersbize. 
Moffey, Miss, 10, Montague-place, Clapham-road. 
' Moncrief, Mrs., 8, Canterbury Villas, Brixton. 
Moon, Lady, Portman^uare. 
Mullens, Mrs., 15, Cambridge-squaie, Hyde-park. 
Neats, Miss, 10, Marlborough-place, St. John's-wood. 
Oppenhelm, Mrs., 22, Endsleigh-street, Tavistock-sqnaro. 
Passey, Miss, 1, Clarendoii-street, Pimlica 
Peters, Mrs., Harley-street, Bow-road. 
Pizley, Mrs., Victoria-road, Kensington. 
Price, Mrs., 29, Upper Bedford-place, Bussell-square. 3 copies. 
Quekett, Bev. W., Bectory, Warrington. 
Quick, Mrs., 14, Wimpole-street, Cavendish-square. 
Bippenham, Mr,, Wellington-road, Bow-road. 
Bobertson, Mrs. J., Poplar. » 

Bogers, Mrs., Mount-street, Dublin. 
Bowe, Mrs., 33, Cavendish-square. 
Bowsell, Bev., E. E., Brindley Bectory, Newmarket. 



XIV LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. 

Bassell, Mrs., GroYe-End-road, St. John'g-wood. 

Byan, Mrs., 3, Grordon-place, Tavistock-square. 

Saxton, Mrs. E., Bettswood, Sjdenham-hill. 

Sayer, Mrs., Cambridge-terrace. 

Scott, Mrs., Maryland Point, Stratford, Essex. 

Sneyd, Miss, Ashcombe-park, Leek, Staffordshire. 

Soames, Mrs. Frederick, Belmont, Lee, Kent. 

Soames, Mrs. Josh., 5, Westboume-terrace. 

Soanies, Mrs., Maze-hill, Greenwich. 2 copies, 

Sterens, Mrs., Albany-street, Begent's-park. 

Storey, Dr., St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. 

Strahan, Mrs., Albany-street, Begent's-park. 

Thompson, Edward, Esq., Salters' Company. 

Thompson, Mrs , 15, Brook-street, Grosvenor-square. 

Tudor, Mrs., Gidea Hall, Bomford, Essex. 

Tudor, Mrs., Lower Fitzwilliam-street, Dublin. 

Turner, Mrs., 26, Harley-place, Bow-road. 

Upton, Edward, Esq., Master of the Salters* Company. 

Varden, Mrs., 10, Craven-Hill Gardens, Hyde-park. 2 copies, 

Yaughan, Mrs., 88, Westboume-terrace, Hyde-park. 

Waller, Dr., 9, Finsbury-square. 

Ward, Mrs. George, 2, Grosvenor Villas, Brixton. 

Wentworth, Mrs, H. C, Boffey Hall, Harlow, Essex. 

White, Mrs., C. P., Beech Cottage, Bromley, Middlesex. 

Whiting, Lady Congreve, Ostend. 2 ccpies. 

Young, Mrs. George Frederick, Beigate, Surrey. 

Young, Mrs. W. O., 35, Porchester-terrace. 



J 



PRACTICAL 



AVD 



ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



PART L 



FISH. 

TO CHOOSE FISH. 

TuBBOT should be thick, the belly of a yellowish white; 
if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are not good. They are. 
in season the greater part of the year. 

SALMON. 

If fresh, the flesh should be of a fine red, and the gills^- 
likewise, the scales bright, and the fish stiff. A salmon 
that has been killed two or three days eats much better 
than when too fresh. The Gloucester salmon fetches the 
highest price, and is reckoned a great delicacy. Large 
fish should always be preferred, as they are much richer 
and a better flavour; small salmon eats dry. 

COD. 

The gills should be very red, the fish round and thick, 
the eye bright and quite firm. They are in season from 
the lieginmng of November till the end of March* 
-^... B 



2 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

SOLES. 

If good, the skins are very tight and slimy, the belly 
white and firm; if of a bluish cast and flabby, they are 
not fresh. They are in season all the year round, bat in 
the highest perfection about Midsummer. 

SKATE 

Should be very white and thick; if too firedi, they eat 
tough. That which is crimped must always be preferred. 

MACKEREL 

Should be very bright and firm, the back of a dark 
green. Their season is May, June, and July. They are 
a very tender fish, and keep but a short time. 

WHmNCS. 

The firmness and brightness is to be looked to as in 
mackerel. Their highest season is during the first three 
months of the year, but they may be had the greater 
part of it. 

SMELTS, 

If fresh, have a fine silvery cast, are very firm, and 
have the smell of newly-cut cucumber. Those caught in 
the river Medway are much the best. 

MULLETS. 

The sea are preferred to the river, and the red to 
the grey. They should be very firm, and their colour 
bright. 

HERRINGS. 

Choose as mackerel. Their giUs should be of a fine 
red. 

PIKE. 

The best are taken in rivers. Their colour should be 
very bright, the spots quite black. They are very dry, 
and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. 



PRACTK2AL AKD EGONOMIGAL COOEEBY. 3 

CARP 

Live a long while out of water, and may therefore get 
wasted. It is best to kill them as soon as caught. 

TENCH. 

They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should 
be killed and dressed as soon as caught. When fresh, the 
gills are of a bright red, and hard to open, the eyes 
bright, the body stiff and slimy; the brightness of which 
shows freshness. They are in season July, August, and 
September. 



There is a greater difference in the quality of eels than, 
of any other fish. The true silver eel (so called from the 
bright silver colour of the belly) is the best. Those 
taken in great floods are very good, but in ponds they 
have usually a strong flavour. Except the middle of 
summer, they are always in season. 

LOBSTERS 

Should be very lively, and have a strong motion with 
their claws. The hens are the best. It is preferable 
to boil them at home. When you buy them ready boiled, 
try whether their tails are shut firm and pull up with a 
spring; if so, they are good. The male lobster is known 
by the narrow bacuc part of the tail, and the two uppermost 
fins within it are stiff and hard; but those of the nen are 
soft, and the tail much broader. The male has the highest 
flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour, when boiled, 
of a deeper red. The hens are far preferable if required 
for sauce. 

CRABS. 

The heaviest are the best, and those of the middle size 
are the sweetest flavour. If light, they are sure to be 
watery. The pound crabs are much the best, the shell of 
which is a bright cream colour; those which are of a 
purple cast come from Scotland, and are y&j indifferent. 

b2 



4 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

PRAWNS, 

When fresh, have a sweet flavour, and stiff; the colour 
bright. Those of the highest colour are much the nicest- 
looking for table. 

SHRIMPS 

Are of the same kind as prawns, and should be judged 
by the same rules. The Boston are the finest flavour. 

OYSTERS. 

There are so many kinds, and too numerous to mention. 
Those from Milford, Colchester, and Faversham, are very 
good. The Burnham natives are the best, being very 
plump and white; others may be made very good by 
proper feeding. They should be washed clean and placed 
in tubs, the bottom shell downwards, and spring water 
and salt put to them. They should be eaten as soon 
as opened; if not, they get flat and lose their flavour. 



OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. 

The cook must be very particular in having it very 
clean from the blood and scales. All small fish that is to 
be fried should be nicely washed and dried, dipped in egg, 
sprinkled with bread crumbs, and fried a fight brown in 
boiHng lard or dripping. You should be very particular 
in garnishing fish; use plenty of parsley, a little horse- 
radish, and cut lemon* Serve up with melted butter. 

TO BOIL TURBOT. 

The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size and in the 
nicest order. Bub the fish with salt and lemon, cover it 
with lukewarm water, put it on a slow fire; when it boils 
up it is done. Be careful you do not break it. Garnish 
with horseradish and parsley; the belly with the spawn 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 5 

of a lobster. Serve with lobster sauce and plain butter in 
separate boats. 

TO BOIL SALMON. 

Clean carefully, boil it gently, put a handful of salt in 
the water. A double jole will take half an hour after 
boiling up; if split, ten minutes. Be sure to put the split 
salmon in hot water. Serve with lobster or shrimp sauce; 
garnish with parsley and lemon. 

TO BROIL SALMON. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and 
salt. Lay*each slice in half a sheet of white paper well 
buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil theslices 
over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper 
with anchovy sauce. 

TO POT SALMON. 

If you have any cold salmon left, pick the meat from 
the skin and bones, pound it in a marble mortar with 
some cayenne, pounded mace, white pepper, and a little 
salt. To one pound of salmon put two ounces of butter 
warmed; pound it very fine, and put it into your potting 
pots. Pour clarified butter over it. 

TO POT LOBSTER. 

Pick all the meat out of the lobster when boiled, put 
the spawn and red coral that lay in the head of the hen 
lobster, chop all together, then put it into a marble 
mortar. To two lobsters put half a pound of butter 
warmed, pounded mace, nutmeg, a little cayenne, and 
salt; pound all together to a fine paste, then press it into 
your potting pots. Pour over it clarified butter. 

TO POT SHRIMPS. 

When boiled take off the skins, and pound them in a 
marble mortar. Season them with pepper, salt, a little 
pounded mace, and cloves. To one pouna of shrimps put 



6 FRACnCAL AND ECOKOHICAL COOKSBT. 

six oimcea of butter warmed. Whoi quite smooth press 
it into small potting pots, and pour danfied butter 
over it. 

TO CLARIFY BUTTER. 

Put the quantity of butter you think yoa wiU require 
into a small stewpan, set that in a large one with a uttle 
water in it; when melted, let it stand for twenty minutes, 
then you will find the milky part will sink to me bottom. 
When you pour the butter over the potted meats, &c., 
take care not to let any of that in. 

STEWED SALMON, WITH PIQUANT SAUQE. 

Cut the sUces an inch thick, try a light brown, stew 
them in giavy with capers, a little anchovy, soy, and 
cayenne pepper. Place your fish in the disn and pour 
the mixture over. Garnish with crawfish and lemon. 

COLLARED SALMON. 

Split such a part of the fish as may be sn£5[cient to 
make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having 
mixed salt, white pepper, powdered mace, and Jamaica 
pepper in sufficient quantities to season it very high, rub 
it inside and out weu, then roll it tight and bandage it, 
put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, 
with bay leaves, salt, both sorts of pepper, and a bunch of 
fennel. Take up your fish and dram it; boil the liquor 
ten minutes longer, then strain it; when cold pour it. over 
your fish. When you send it to table take off the tapes 
and garnish with fennel. 

TO PICKLE SALMON. 

Take a salmon that is very fresh, split it down the 
back, and cut it in as many pieces you please; place as 
many pieces on your fish-strainer as it wiU hold, and boil 
it till tender, with a litde salt in the water. Pack the 
pieces tight in a pan and boil the remainder of your fish 
m the same liquor, then add to three quarts of the liquor 



FBAGTICAL ASTD EOOKOMICAL C0QKEBX. 7 

thoee-fonrtlis of vinegar and a handM of SsDnel; boil 

Sur liquor up for five nnniites^ then Btain it orer your 
1 ; when tikoronghly cold put one tablespoonfiil of 
salad-oil; keep the air from it, this will keep good for 
a fortnight. Be sure not to scale your fish. 

COD. 

Some people boil the cod whole, but a hzge head and 
shoulders is the handsomest. Crimped fish is preferable; 
let the head and shoulders be nicely tied up, rub it well 
with salt, put it into cold water wUh « piece of hcEse- 
ndish, let it come to a boil very dow; be 0ure to skim it 
well. If a large head and shouLders it will take ten 
minutes after boiling up; be sure to have a napkin on 
your fish-drainer. Well garnish with pardey, horae* 
radish, and the liver of the fish. Serve with plenty of 
oyster sauce. 

TO DRESS SALT COD. 

Soak and clean the piece you intend to dress, then lav 
it all night in water with a glass of vinegar, boil it till 
tender, be sure to skim it well while boiling; it will take 
twenty minutes boiling. Serve with egg sauce and 
parsnips. 

ROAST STURGEON. 

Put it on a lark spit, then tie it on a large spit, baste it 
constantly with butter, and serve with a good gravy and 
a squeeze of lemon. Garnish with notcned lemon and 

pardiey. 

TO DRESS STURGEON. 

Cut your fish in dices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle 
with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, and salt; fold ihem 
in paper and broil gently. Serve with melted butter, 
anchovy, and lemon pickle. 

TO STEW STURGEON. 

Take slices of sturgeon, well wash them, put them into 
a stewpan with a nice beef gravy, one glass of vinegar, 



8 PRAGTIGAL AND EGONOMIGAL GOOKEBT. 

and one shalot; stew gently. When tender, place your fish 
on a dish and pour the gravy over it. Let the gravy be 
rather thick. Gramish with bunches of parsley and bar- 
berries. Done well it makes a delicious dish. 

CRIMP SKATE. 

Boil it very nice and white; send it to table on a nap- 
kin. It is best boiled. 

STEWED CARP. 

Scale and clean ; take care of the roe. Lay the fish in a 
stewpan with a rich beef gravy, with two glasses of port 
wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a Httle salt, and 
cayenne pepper to palate; keep the stewpan close covered; 
stew it very gently; in a quarter of an hour it will be 
done. Lay tne fish in a dish, thicken the gravy with 
flour and butter, give it one boil up, and pour it over the 
fish. Garnish with the roe of the fish, and plenty' of 
horseradish and lemon. 

BAKED CARP. 

Clean a large carp, put a stuffing in as for dorey ; be sure 
not to cut your carp open; butter a deep dish and place 
the carp in it; put a buttered paper over the fish. Bake 
it in a slow oven for half an hour. Take the fish out and 
lay it on the dish you intend it to go to table on; then 
take the liquor wmch has come from the fish and beat it 
up with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoonful 
of mustard, a little cayenne, a spoonful of soy, and one of 
vinegar. Give it one boil, and pour it over the fish; 
serve some in a boat. Garnish with horseradish and 
parsley. 

PERCH OR TENCH. 

Put them into cold water; boil them carefiilly; serve 
with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate 
fish; they make a pretty dish fried, dipped in egg and 
sprinkled with crumbs of bread. Fry a delicate brown in 
lard or dripping. Garnish with parsley. 



PEACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 9 

TO FRY TROUT AND GRAYLINa 

Scale, gut, well wash and dry them; lay them sepa- 
rately, roll them in flour and dip them in egg. Fry in 
lard or dripping a nice brown. Garnish with med 
parsley; serve with melted butter in a boat. 

MACKEREL. 

Boil and serve with melted butter, parsley, and fennel. 
To broil them, split and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and 
salt. Pickled: boil them, then boil some of. the liquor 
with equal quantity of vinegar, a little mace, salt, and 
fennel; when cold pour it over them. 

RED MULLET. 

It is called the sea- woodcock. Clean, but leave the in- 
side; fold in buttered paper, and gently bake in a dish. 
Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish with 
a piece of butter, a little flour and essence of anchovy, and 
a glass of port wine. Give it a boil, and serve in a boat, 
and send tiie fish to table in the paper cases; or you can 
lay your fish in a dish and pour the sauce over it. Garnish 
with crayfish; sprinkle over the fish some parsley chopped 
very fine. 

TO BAKE PIKE. 

Scale and open it as near the throat as you can. Stuff 
it with the following: grated bread crumbs, anchovies, 
oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, and parsley chopped 
fine; bind it with two eggs; then put it into your fish 
and sew it up; twist it round with the tail in its mouth. 
Put it into a tin dish with a buttered paper over it; half 
an hour will bake it in a moderate oven. Thicken the 
gravy that comes from the fish with a little butter rolled 
m flour, anchovy, a little soy, and cayenne pepper. Serve 
it up in a boat. Garnish with parsley. 

HADDOCKS. 

Haddock is very fine done in the same way; or boil 
them, and send them up with anchovy sauce. 



10 PSACnCAL AKD EGOKOHIGAI. GOOKEST. 



If boiled, be sore to keep the sldn on, and send them 
op the white side npwaids. Garnish with parsley and 
horseradish. If iried^ dip in ^g and cover them with 
fine crmnbs of bread, and fry uiem in dripping or lard. 
Be sure the fat boils before you put the naja, in, which 
may be known by throwing a small piece of bread in the 
pan; if ready^ it will brown. Fry them a light brown. 
Garnish with parsley and horseradish; melted butter or 
shrimp sauce in a boat. 

STEWED SOLES, PORTUGUESE WAY. 

Have your soles filleted: season them with salt, pepper, 
mace, chopped parsley, and a little taragon; roll them up, 
dip in egg and crumbs of bread; then &y them; put 
them in a stewpan with a little gravy, a little soy, an- 
chovy, and a glass of port wine, and two spoonfids of 
capers chopped fine; stew them all together for ten 
mmutes over a gentle fire; then lay your fish in the 
dish; pour the sauce in the middle, uamish with lemon. 
This is a nice dish. 

TO FRY SMELTS. 

They should not be washed more than is necessarv to 
clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour 
them, but shake it ofl^ dip them into plenty of egg, then 
crumbs of bread, and plunge them into a good pan of 
boiling lard, and fiy them off quick. Let them be a fine 
light colour. Serve with melted butter in a boat 



SPITCHCOCK EELS. 

Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut 
them into pieces three inches long, open them on the 
belly ^de and take out the bone. Cfean them nicely, 
wipe them dry, then wet them with .beaten egg, and 



PRAGTiCAL Am) ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 1 1 

Strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a 
Teiy little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed 
with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a little oil, 
and broil the fish a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and 
butter for sauce. 

TO FRY EELS. 

Gut your eels in pieces about three inches lon^, dust 
them in flour, then dip them in egg and crumbs of bread, 
and &y them off a fine brown. 

STEWED EELS. 

Fry them as above, place them in a stewpan with 
some good gravy, a little soy, anchovy, cayenne pepper, 
a squeeze of lemon, two glasses of port wine, and salt to 
your taste. Stew diem for a quarter of an hour. Garnish 
with lemon, parsley, and horsemdish. 

TO ROAST AN EEL. 

Take a large eel with the skin on, well wash it from 
the blood and slime, put a good stuffing as for carp, sew 
it up, then curl it round, brin^g the head in the middle; 
put a skewer through it and tie it on a spit, baste it with 
butter, and dredge it with fine crumbs of bread very 
thick. When of a fine brown, dish it up. Serve with 
melted butter in a boat. Garnish with parsley. 

COLLARED EEL. 

Bone a large eel but do not skin it, cat off the head 
and tail, split it down the back and take out the bone, 
then lay the eel flat on the dresser and sprinkle it over 
with a little sage, chopped parsley, pepper, cloves, and 
salt; roll it up in a collar, then tie it in a cloth, boil it in 
vinegar and water and a little allspice for three-quarters 
of an hour; take the eel out, add to the liquor one ounce 
of isinglass, the whites of three eggs well beaten, and a 
little salt; boil it for five minutes, and run it through a 
jeUy-bag until fine. When the eel is cold take it out of the 



12 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY- 

cloth when wanted for table, and lay the above jelly over 
it in pieces. It must be done the day before using, as the 
liquor must jelly before serving. Garnish with barberries 
and parsley. 

WATER SOUCHEY. 

Stew SIX flounders, some parsley-leaves and roots, 
twenty long peppers, one quart of water, till the fish are 
boiled to pieces; pulp through a sieve, set over the fire 
the pulped fish and the liquor that they are boiled in, and 
some perch, tench, or small flounders, some fresh parsley- 
roots and leaves: simmer all together. Serve in a tureen 
or deep dish. Send slices of bread and butter to eat with 
it at table. 

HERRINGS. 

Herrings are so common a fish that it needs no remarks 
how to dress them. Fried or broiled is the best way. 
Well flour them after cleaning, and do them a good 
colour. Serve with melted butter. 

SPRATS. 

Sprats should be washed and wiped well with a clean 
cloth; broil on a sprat gridiron over a nice clear fire. 
Send them up a few at a time on good hot dishes. 

LOBSTERS. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Take a hen lobster when boiled, take the meat out of 
the tail and claws, and the soft meat from the body, and 
spawn, chop it up, and put it into a mortar with two 
ounces of butter, a few Dread crumbs, a little pounded 
mace, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste, the white of 
one egg, beat it very smooth, then make it into cutlets. 
Form them with your hand or shape them with a cutter, 
dip them in egg and crumbs of bread, fry them a light 
colour^ put one of the small claws in the small end of 
each cutlet. Place them round your dish the small end 
upwards, with fried parsley in the middle. This makes a 
nice entree. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 13 

LOBSTER QUENEL 

Prepare the meat of a lobster as above, leaving out the 
butter. Melt four ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in 
the lobster, stir it round to keep it from burning; when 
thoroughly hot put it into a small oval mould; set it in 
the oven for ten minutes. When you dish it up, take the 
head of the lobster, and cut off the greater part of the shell 
of the body. When you turn it out on your dish, stick 
the head of the lobster at one end and the tail at the other, 
and three of the small feet on each side. This makes a 
very pretty dish. 

TO ROAST A LOBSTER, 

Take a large lobster, boil it ten minutes, take it out of 
the water, and while hot tie it on a spit, well baste it with 
butter and a little flour till it has a fine froth. Dish it 
up. Gramish with notched lemon; melted butter in a 
boat. 

TO CURRY LOBSTERS OR PRAWNS. 

Take the meat from the shells and lay it in a stewpan 
with half a pint of veal gravy, two or three spoonfuls of 
curry powder rubbed smooth with a little butter, one 
spoonful of flour, and a small shallot; simmer together for 
a quarter of an hour, squeeze a lemon in, and add a little 
salt. Dish it up. Garnish with boiled rice very white 
and dry. Sprinkle a little of the red spawn of the lobster 
over the rice. 

CRAWHSH 

May be done in the same way. Thej make a fine 
dish. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take your lobsfer from the shells, cut it into square 
pieces, place a few pieces round a jelly motdd, some hard 
Doiled egg cut in pieces, which mix in between a little 
parsley put in lumps, a little of the red coral, then a little 
salad, then a little lobster, and so on till you fill the 
mould. Then take one pint of calfs-foot stock, with 



14 PHAOnCAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 

one glass of vinegar, a little taiagon, the whites of three 
eggs well beaten, and a little salt and pepper; boil it for 
five minutes, strain it through a jelly-bag; when clear 
and nearly cold fill your mould witn it. When tho- 
roughly set, dip the mould into warm water and turn it 
out on a dish. Place a thick salad dressing in the dish. 
This is a very elegant way of making lobster salad. 

ANOTHER. 

Place salad on a dish with pieces of lobster intermixed, 
chop the white of four eggs, boiled hard, very fine, and 

J>ass the yolks through a sieve. Garnish the salad as 
bllows: chopped parsley, the egg yon passed through 
the sieve, some oi the white chopped, and the coral of 
the lobster rubbed smooth. You must vary the colours 
well. Put the salad dressing in at the top of the salad. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Take the yolks of three eggs boiled hard, rub them 
smooth with the back of a spoon in a basin, and the raw 
yolk of one; add a little salt, a dessert-spoonful of made 
mustard; well mix all together; then add, by degrees, two 
tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil, well mix it, then add 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a little cream. 

TO BiriTER PRAWNS OR SHRIMPS. 

Take them out of the shells, stew them five minutes 
with a little good gravy, a bit of butter rolled in flour, a 
little mace and pepper. Serve them up on sippets, and 
place some round the dish. 

. HOT CRA& 

Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the 
head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, two ^oonluls of vinegar, 
two of veal gravy, and a little cayenne. Simmer togetner 
for five minutes. In the mean time wash the large shell of 
the crab very dean and return the mixtuise into it, then 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 15 

shake crumbs of bread over the top^ and brown it before 
the fire or with a salamander. Lay it on a napkin nicely 
folded. Garnish with parsle j. 

DRESSED CRAB COLD. 

Empty the shell, mix the meat with oil, i^ little vinegar, 
salt, cayenne, and a little white pepper; take the soft 
meat, with a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little 
vinegar; fill one-half of the shell with soft meat, the other 
with the white meat. Gramish with spawn of lobster and 
parsley. 

TO SCALLOP OYSTERS. 

Beard and put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg;, and a bit of butter into scallop-shells or saucers, 
and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. 

TO STEW OYSTERS. 

Take the largest oysters you can get^ separate the 
liquor irom them, beard and wash carefiuly from the grit; 
strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a little lemon- 
peel, mace, and white pepper, some cream, and a little 
flour and butter. Simmer them about ten minutes very 
gently. Serve with sippets round the dish. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a little, 
dip the oysters in, and fry a light brown in lard or good 
dnpping; a little nutmeg should be put into the season- 
ing. Garnish with fried parsley. This makes a very 
pretty dish for a side. 

TO PICKLE OYSTERS. 

Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in 
their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor ofi*, 
adding to it three or four blades of mace, six long peppers, 
a tablespoonful of salt, one pint of vinegar ; simmer the 
oysters m the liquor for two or three minutes, then put 



16 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

the oysters into small jars, and boil the pickle up again^ 
well skim it, then strain it into the jars, and tie them ^own 
with bladder, for the air will spoil them. 

TO FRY nSH JEWISH FASHION. 

This is a yery fine way to dress fish to eat cold, and 
which I highly approye of, and am surprised it is not more 
generally adopted, as the mode is so simple, and the 
dressed fish will keep in cold weather for a week, or eyen 
longer* Common fish, such as plaice, halibut, and fresh 
herrings, eat yery fine done this way. Slices of salmon, 
filleted soles, and smelts, are also yery much used by them, 
and considered yery fine. The fish must be well scaled 
and cleaned from the blood. Cut salmon in slices, plaice 
and halibut in pieces, small fish fry whole. Lay the fish in 
a pan or tray, after you haye well washed it shake some 
salt oyer it and let it lay one hour ; then well wipe it, and lay 
between clean cloths to dry ; haye ready in your frying-pan 
one quart of the best sweet oil ; when it is boiling hot, throw 
in a piece of bread; if it browns, it is ready for the fish; 
haye some eggs well beaten up in a dish, and fiour in 
another; dip the fish in the fiour, then in the egg, and put 
it in the boiling oil in your pan ; you must not haye too 
strong a fire. When it is done on one side, turn it care- 
fully; let it be a fine bright colour. When done, put it 
on a fish«strainer, that the oil may run from it. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 17 



PART 11. 



SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

OBSERVATIONS ON SOUPS. 

When you make any kind of soups, be particular your 
digester, or saucepan, is very clean; be careful in washing 
the meat before cooking it ; the best meat for soups is^ 
legs and shins of beef and the knuckle of veal. Cut the 
meat in pieces from the bones, fry in a little butter a nice 
brown; take the marrow out of the bone, place the bones 
at the bottom of the digester, or pot, with a few onions, 
carrot, celery, sweet herbs, and pepper; cover with water 
and stew gently for nine or ten hours; when done, strain 
it through a hair sieve; be sure to put it into shallow 

Eans, as it is apt to ferment and turn sour if there is too 
irge a. body together. This stock is an excellent founda- 
tion for all brown soups; when cold the fat must be taken 
off before using; if not used the day after boiling, it must 
be boiled up every two days. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Take half a calPs^head, this will make a good large 
tureen of soup; you must have the head scalded with the 
sHn on. Boil it one hour, then cut in square pieces an inch 
square; be sure not to put any of the loose pieces in as it 
spoils ihe look of the soup; take half a pound of butter, 
one large onion, some basil, a little cayenne, melt the 
butter in a stewpan with the onion and basil, then shake 
in as much flour as you think will thicken the tureen of 
soup. You must add to vour ingredients three quarts of 
the above stock, with a little of the stock the head is boiled 

C 



18 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

in; boil all together for half an hour, strain it through a 
fine sieve or tammy, then put the turtle meat to the stock 
with half a pint of wine, the juice of one lemon, a little 
catsup, salt to your taste, boil till the meat becomes tender, 
throw in some egg and forcemeat balls. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 

Take a rabbit or fowl, nicely wash and dry it, then cut 
it up in small pieces and fiy it in butter a nice light 
brown, lay it on paper or a sieve to drain, then slice a 
large onion and iiy it in the same butter with two table- 
spoonfuls of mulligatawny paste or curry powder; be sure 
not to let it bum; then turn it into a stewpan, add three 
quarts of good stock — ^not too brown — let it boil half an 
hour, thicken it with flour and butter, pass it through a 
fine sieve, then add the chicken or rabbit, the juice of one 
lemon and salt to taste, stew gently half an hour longer, 
well skim it and take all the &.t off, as there will be a great 
deal rise. When you serve the soup up put half a tea- 
cupful of cream in the tureen, then pour the soup in. Send 
rice boiled white and dry in a vegetable dish to eat 
with it. 

PARTRIDGE SOUP. 

Take two old partridges, skin and cut them in pieces with 
three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three large 
onions cut into slices, fry them all in butter till brown, 
but take care not to bum them; put them into a stewpan 
with three quarts of weak stock, a few long peppers, half a 
pint of fine raspings, and salt to your taste ; stew it gently 
two hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again 
into the stewpan with a teaspoonful of soy, a httle stewed 
celery and bread fried and cut in small dice; when it boils 
skim it well, pour it into a tureen, and send it to table 
hot. 

JUUENNE SOUP. 

Take a good stock, made as in page 17 : this soup mu3t be 
very clear; take the fat off and the settlement at the bot^ 
torn, put the soup into a stewpan with the whites of four 



VZAXmCAL A3SD ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 19 

or five eggs vrtSl beaten, a little salt and pepper; let it 
come to a gentle boil; when it has boiled a quarter of an 
Hour, strain it through a tamm^ or jelly-bag, then have 
ready boiled some carrot, turnip, and celery, cut it in 
small pieces what shape you please, put tibem into a 
tureen. In summer you may put French beans, aspara- 
gus tops, peas, ^id taragon; muke the soup boiling hot, 
pour it on the vegetables in the tureen. 

HARE SOUP. 

Take a hare not too high, case and well wash but not 
soak it, for that takes away the fine flavour; cut the meaty 
parts of the hare the size of a walnut, fry them a nice 
brown, take the carcase of the hare with as much of its 
blood as you can save, one large onion, half a red herring, 
a few cloves, and three quarts of good stock, stew all to- 
gether two hours; parboil the liver of the hare, rub it 
through a sieve with a little butter, with this and a little 
flower thicken the soup; when strained add the pieces of 
hare with two glasses of port wine, one tablespoonful of 
soy, a Httle cayenne and salt to taste, stew it for one hour, 
send it to table with the pieces of hare in the soup. This 
is the best way to make hare soup, and is considered very 
tine. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

If you have a cooked hare you can stew it down with 
the above ingredients till tender, then pulp the meat 
through a sieve and send it to table. 

QIBLET SOUP. 

Take two sets of goose giblets or three of ducks, clean 
them very nicely, cut the gizzard into £bur, chop the 
bones of the neck, feet, and wings, stew them in three 
quarts of weak stock, when tender take them out, 
put to the stock a bunch of sweet herbs, a little sweet 
basil, two onions, and a few black peppercorns. Boil it 
half an hour, then thicken it with a piece of butter rolled 

C2 



20 PKACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

in flour, strain it through a sieve, then put the giblets in 
(do not put the liver in, as that is apt to break)^ add one 
glass of white wine, a little cayenne, one tablespoonful of 
catsup, and a little salt to taste. You must send the 
giblets in the soup to table. 

TO MAKE WHITE SOUP. 

Take a knuckle pf veal, a ham bone, or a little lean 
ham, four blades of mace, one head of celery, two onions, 
a little lemon-peel, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper- 
corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs (green if you can get 
them), put three quarts of water, stew all together till the 
meat drops from the bones, strain it through a fine sieve 
into a shallow pan. (This stock is fit for any white soup.) 
Next day take the fat ofl" and clear the stock from the 
sediment, put it into a clean stewpan; when it boils 
thicken it with the following: take a quarter of a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanch and beat them in a mortar, put 
to them a little water to prevent them from oiling; if you 
have any cooked veal, or a little of the white meat of a 
chicken, pound it with the almonds, with three spoonfuls 
of ground rice; put this into the soup, boil it half an 
hour, then pulp it through a sieve, add half a pint of 
cream and a little salt. You must not let the soup boil 
after the cream is in: this is a very fine white soup. 

OYSTER SOUPp 

Take five dozen of large oysters, scald them in their 
own liquor with four blades of mace, then beard the 
oysters and put them by, take two quarts of white stock, 
put to the hquor and beards of the oysters with a small 
shalot chopped fine, and a few white peppers. Let this 
boil for half an hour, thicken with ground rice, add a 
little cayenne, strain it through a tammy or sieve. Before 
sending to table put the oysters in and three-quarters of a 
pint of cream; be sure it does not boil up after the cream 
18 in. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 21 

CARROT SOUP. 

Take six large carrots the deepest colour you can get^ 
scrape and slice them, with two onions, one head of 
celery, stew them in three pints of water till tender, pulp 
them through a sieve, add two quarts of good beef stock. 
When boiled up and well skimmed it is fit for table. 

VECETABLE SOUP. 

Take a large handful of spinach, one parsnip, two 
onions, one carrot, one head of celery, three turnips, one 
or two lettuces, bunch of parsley, a little chervil and 
taragon, put half a pound of butter into a stewpan with 
a little salt, one dessert-spoonful of peppers, slice the 
onions, turnips, carrot, and parsnip, put them into the 
butter with the rest of the vegetables, add two quarts of 
hot water, stew them till tender; if vou find the soup will 
not be thick enough, add a little nour and butter with 
some catsup, then work it through a sieve. Serve it up 
with buttered toast cut in dice. This is a very nice soup 
for Lent. 

OLD PEA SOUP. 

Save the liquor of boiled pork or beef, take one quart 
of split peas with two heads of celery, four leeks, and two 
carrots, simmer them in soft water till they will pulp 
through a sieve, then add as much of the boiled meat 
liquor as will make it a proper thickness for table. Serve 
it up with toasted bread cut in dice, with some mint 
rubbed very fine. 

GROUSE SOJJP. 

Pick and draw four grouse, take oiOfthe meat from the 
breast, and cut off the tegs, put the bodies in a stewpan 
with one onion, six cloves, bunch of sweet herbs, blade 
of mace, a piece of lemon-peel, and five pints of good 
brown stock. Stew till all tne meat comes off the bones; 
boil half a pint of raspings with the bones. If it is not 
thick enough add a little flour and butter mixed together, 



22 FS^CnCAL A3SD ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 

strain it through a tammy cloth^ add salt to taste, cut the 
meat of the breast in small pieces andfiryin a little butter, 
lay them on a piece of dean paper to diam, then put it 
in the soup and stew till tender; add one glass of port 
wine, a litue catsup and so j, and cayenne to taste. Serve 
it up with the meat in it. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Boil a pound and a quarter of macaroni in three 
quarts of good stock. When quite tender take out as 
much of macaroni as will fill a pint pot when cut in 
half-inch pieces, set it by till you want it, add to the 
stock and macaroni one onion, two blades of mace, and 
a little white pepper, let the macalroni stew till you 
can pulp it through a sieve, then add the cut macaroni 
and half a pound of grated parmesan cheese, a little salt 
and pepper; make half a pint of cream scalding hot and 
put it to the soup when you send it up* 

OX-TAIL SOUP* 

Take three or four tails, well wash them, cut them in 
pieces two inches long, put them in a digester with two 
carrots, one head of celery, two turnips, three onions, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a few allspice and peppercorns. If 
you have any prepared stock put seven pints to the above, 
if not you must put four pounds of gravy beef to this 
quantity of water, stew aU together till the tail is tender, 
tnen take the small pieces of the tail out to send to table 
in the soup, stew the rest till the meat will come from the 
bones, be sure to skim all the fat off, thicken it with flour 
and butter, strain it tfaaough a sieve, add a little brown- 
ing, catsups salt, and cavenne, put the pieces of tail in 
and give it a boil up belore you send it to table. You 
may add carrot and celery cut in shape if you please. 

QREEN PEA SOUP. 

Take a peck and a half of peas, in shelling separate the 
old from tne young, boil the old peas with a handiul of 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 23 

green mint, a few young onions, and some of the shells 
with three pints of water, stew them till ^idte tender; 
then pulp all through a sieve, add three pints of good 
stock, a uttle salt, and three lumps of sugar. Boil the 
soup up. If not thick enough you must add a little flour 
and butter. Boil the young peas with a lettuce cut small 
and a little mint just before you serve the soup up. Put 
the vegetables in with a little spinach, which you must 
poimd in a mortar in the raw state, then squeeze it 
through a cloth. If you like to thicken the soup with 
old dried blue peas you can; it answers the same purpose, 
only you must soak them overnight, and boil them in a 
large quantity of water. 

A FINE WHITE SOUP CALLED PALESTINE. 

Take three i)ounds of Jerusalem artichokes, peel them 
very nicely, boil them in some veal stock till quite tender, 
with a little mace, white pepper, and two shalots. Pulp 
them through a sieve, then add one pint of cream and a 
little salt, and as much more veal stock as will make it a 
proper thickness. You must not boil it after the cream 
is in. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Take the liquor that a leg of mutton has been boiled 
in, cut up three leeks, take a quart of Scotch barley, well 
wash it and put it to the liquor^^ cut some turnips and 
carrots in shapes what form you please, take eight mutton 
chops with the fat off, stew all together till tne meat is 
tender; skim it very nicely. Send it to table in a tureen 
with the chops in tne broth. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Take a scrag of mutton, cut it into small pieces, put it 
in a saucepan with two quarts of water, three or four 
turnips, and one blade of mace. Stew it till the meat 
drops from the bones, then strain it through a sieve; you 
must be particular to skim it well and take off all the fat. 
Wash half a teacupful.of rice and boil it in the broth if 



24 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

approved of; if not, serve toasted bread cut In dice. Chop 
some parsley fine, and throw it in the broth when you 
send it to table. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take a pound of beef, cut it in small pieces, put it in a 
saucepan with one quart of water, four allspice berries, a 
piece of crust of bread toasted brown. Stew all together 
one hour, take the fat off as it rises, add a little salt, strain 
and serve it up with a little toasted bread cut in dice. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Take a pound of lean beef, cut it in very thin slices, 
put it into a jar and pour one quart of boiling water upon 
It, cover it very close to keep in the steam, let it stand by 
the fire. This is very good for a weak constitution; it 
must be drunk when it is milk warm. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Skin a chicken and boil it in three pints of water, with 
a blade or two of mace. Boil it over a slow fire for one 
hour, then pour it into a basin and take off the fat. Serve 
with dried toast. 

BROWN GRAVY. 

Cut lean beef thin, fry it in a frying-pan with a little 
butter and flour a nice brown, take care it does not bum; 
fry two or three onions, then place the meat and onions in 
a stewpan, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a few berries of 
allspice and black peppers; cover the meat with boiling 
water, stew it for two nours, add a little catsup, browning, 
and a little salt to taste; strain it, and put it by for use. 
Do not take off the fat until you want to use it. 

A CHEAPER GRAVY. 

Take bullocks' or sheep's melts, cut them into small 
pieces, put them in a stewpan with a bit of butter, three 
onions, and a little allspice; shake all together till it ia 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 25 

well browned; add a few sweet herbs, half a pint of rasp- 
ings, and two quarts of water; stew well for two hours, 
strain it off, and add a little catsup and salt. 

WHrTE GRAVY. 

Take two or three shank-bones of mutton and a little 
veal, a rind of lemon, a little lemon thyme, parsley, mace, 
and one onion, a small piece of bacon or lean ham; stew 
all together with three pints of water. When the meat is 
well boiled thicken it with flour and butter; add half a 
pint of cream. You must not let it boil up after the 
cream is in, or it will curdle. Strain it. Be sure to take 
off the fat before you put the cream in. 

A GRAVY WiTHOUT MEAT. 

Take a large onion, slice and put it into a stewpan with 
a piece of butter, shake in a little flour, then toss it about 
in the stewpan till it becomes a nice brown; put two or 
three berries of allspice, and sweet herbs, then add one 
pint and a half of water; stew for half an hour; if not 
thick enough add a little more flour, then strain it through 
a sieve, add a little more browning, and two spoonfuls of 
catsup; salt and pepper to taste. 



26 PRACTICAL ASD ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 



PART III. 



MEATS. 

OBSERYATIOKS OK BOILING ASD BOASTING JOINTS. 

Wash all meat for boiling before you dress it, the 
colour will be much whiter, rut the meat in a floured 
clotK Particular care must be taken that the pot is well 
skimmed as soon as it boils. The slower the meat boils 
the better. Meat boiled too £aai will be hard. Well wipe 
the joints for roasting with a clean damp cloth, which you 
should keep for the purpose; dust it wdl with flour, and 
put a buttered paper over the £it part. As to the length 
of time required for boiling and roasting, the size of the 
joint and the stren^h of the fire must direct you. Weigh 
the meat for all soUd joints; allow twenty minutes to the 
pound. You must not put the joint too near the fire when 
you first put it down, as it is apt to bum the outside 
before the mside gets warm. Bring it closer to the fire as 
you find it is cooking; well baste the meat and keep a 
good clear fire. A joint of beef of ten pounds' weight will 
take two hours and a half roasting at a good fire; a leg of 
pork ten pounds' weight will take three hours. Score the 
pork and cover it wiw a buttered paper, and keep it at a 
distance from the fire; for the first hour baste it well, to 
prevent it from burning, as that spoils the beauty of the 
joint. You must raise the skin of the knuckle and put in 
a seasoning of sage, onion, crumbs of bread, and a little 
salt and pepper; send apple sauce in a boat to table with 
it. A leg of mutton ten pounds' weight will take two 
hours and a half at a good fire; a neck or loin of mutton 
one hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance from the 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOK£BT. 27 

fire. A fillet of veal of twelve pounds^ weight will take 
three hours and a half. You must put a buttered paper 
over it, and keep it well basted. A lore-quarter of lamb 
will take one hour and a half at a good fire; put a paper 
over the thin part. When your joints are nearly done 
take off the pa^er, shake a little flour and salt over them^ 
melt a small piece of butter in the ladle and baste the 
meat with it; this will cause the joint to have a fine white 
froth. Send it to table with the gravy that drips from the 
meat ; take off all the fat from the gravy ; do not put made 
gravy in the dish with the joint, as that spoils the flavour 
of the meat. A ham of twenty pounds weight will take 
four hours and a half slow boiUng, and others in propor- 
tion. A tongue, if dry, will take from four to five hours 
slow boiling; one out of picUe three hours. It must be 
judged by trying if it is tender. 

TO DRESS VENISON. 

A haunch of buck venison will take four hours and a 
half roasting; doe venison only three hours and a half. 
Spread a sheet of cartridge paper, well buttered, over the 
joint, then lay a coarse paste on, and another sheet of 
paper over that, tie it over with string, set it at a distance 
from the fire, which must be a very strong one. Before 
you put the venison down have the fat for basting melted 
ready; baste it often, as the paste is apt to bum; keep it 
at a good distance from the fire, xen minutes before 
serving take off the paper and paste, sprinkle it with salt 
and flour, baste it with a good piece of butter melted in 
the ladle, so that the venison may go to table with a fine 
froth. Do not put any made gravy in the dish, what 
runs from the venison is sufficient. It should be sent up 
on a water-dish, and the plates very hot. Currant jelly 
for sauce, with gravy in a boat very hot. Make the 
gravy as follows: take the shank-bone of the venison, two 
pounds of lean mutton, a little salt; one quart of water; 
stew it till the meat drops from the bone, thicken with a 
little flour and butter, take off all the fat. 



28 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

TO STEW A SHOULDER OF VENISON. 

Take out the bones of a shoulder of venison not too 
high, beat the meat vrith a rolling-pin, sprinkle it with a 
little pepper and allspice, then skewer it up, and keep it 
in as much the shape of a shoulder as you can; put the 
bones into a stewpan that will take the meat, then put the 
venison on the top, with twenty cloves, one quart of 
mutton gravy, one pint of port wine; stew it till quite 
tender, then take the meat and lay it on a dish and 
keep it warm; thicken the gravy with a little flour and 
butter, add a little browning, and salt to taste; strain the 

fravy and take ofl* all the fat. Dish the venison up in a 
eep dish, and pour the gravy over, which must be boiling 
hot. Garnish the dish with French beans; send currant 
jelly in a boat to table with it. 

TO STEW A BREAST OF VENISON AND PEAS. 

Cut the venison into pieces, season with pepper and 
salt, fry a nice brown, put it into a stewpan with a quart 
of good mutton liquor and three pints of green peas 
or French beans cut small; stew all together till tender, 
skim ofl* as much of the fat as you can; send to table 
very hot. ^ 

BEEF. 

TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF. 

Take out the bone, rub it over with allspice and pepper, 
tie it up with a string, then put it in a stewpan, with the 
bones chopped; put to it one carrot, three onions, and a 
head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs and some 
taragon; put two quarts of weak stock; stew the meat till 
tender; if a large one it will take three hours stewing. 
When done take the meat out and keep it hot; take all 
the fat off* the gravy, thicken with a bit of butter rolled in • 
flour, add two spoonfuls of catsup, one of lemon pickle 
and browning, a tittle cayenne and salt. Put the meat in 
the dish and glaze the top side; pour the gravy and 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 29 

vegetables in the dish. Garnish with pickles. If the 
vegetables are not approved of, you can put a few mush- 
rooms, truffles, morels, and forcemeat balls, and garnish 
with horseradish. 

TO STEW A BRISKET OF BEEF. 

Choose a piece of the best part of the brisket, fourteen 
inches square, put it in a stewpan, the bone side down- 
wards, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, two carrots, 
three turnips sliced, with two quarts of good stock; stew 
very slowly for four hours; have ready boiled some carrots, 
turnips, and nice young greens, chop them very small, with 
a little butter, salt, and pepper; you must keep the vege- 
tables separate and hot ; take up the beef very carefully, 
take out the bones and gristle, make the meat lie flat on 
the dish, add a little salt to the gravy, and take off all the 
fat, strain some of the clear gravy in the dish with the 
beef. Gramish the dish with the chopped vegetables, and 
vary the colour, first carrot, then greens, then turnip, in 
little heaps, and so on, and some in rows on the top of 
the meat; vary the colour as before. This is a nice dish 
for the bottom of a table or side. The liquor you have 
left will make good soup. 

TO STEW THE SILVER SIDE OF THE ROUND. 

Take a piece about ten pounds' weight, with a sharp 
knife make noles in each side of the beef, chop some sweet 
herbs, parsley, a little basil, one shalot, pepper, salt, and 
a little mace, cut some pieces of fat bacon a quarter of an 
inch thick, cut in lengths, roll them in the herbs; with 
this and the herbs fill the holes you made in the beef, tie 
a string across the meat as it is a great support to it when 
you take it up, as it must be stewed very tender, put it 
in a stewpan with one quart of stock, three onions, and 
six tomatoes sliced, if you can get them, if not, tomato 
sauce will do as well; when the beef is tender place it on 
a dish and take off the fat from the gravy, strain it over 
the meat. Ghumish the dish with twelve onions boiled 
white. 



30 PRACnCAL AND ECONOMIGAL COOKEBT. 

TO COLLAR A PIECE OF BEEF. 

Take a piece of the thin flank of beef^ take out the 
bones and gristle, salt it "with common salt and saltpetre, 
keep it in pickle three or four days, then take it out and 
wipe it irvy chop some sweet herbs, a blade of garlic, 
some allspice and mace in powder, sprinkle this with the 
herbs over the beef, roll the beef up as tight as you can, 
bind a tape round it and tie in a coarse cloth, boil it five 
or six hours; when done, take it out and put it under a 
heavy weight that willpress it flat; you must not remove 
the cloth until the beet is cold. Glaze the top. This is 
a nice way to dress beef for breakfast or supper; it is a 
nice relish. 

A GOOD WAY TO ROAST A PIECE OF BEEF. 

Take three or four ribs of beef, take out the bones, 
sprinkle it well with salt, roll the meat tight and roast it. 
It looks nicer and cuts more to advantage than when 
cooked with the bones in; the bones, with a little coarse 
meat and vegetables, make a very nice soup. 

A FRICANOEAU OF BEEF. 

Take a piece of the under side of the sirloin of beef, 
season it with pepper, salt, mace, and allspice, lard the 
top with bacon, roast it in a Dutch oven before the fire, 
shake a little flour over it, and baste with butter. Send 
it to table with a good gravy in the dish. 

BEEF-EN-MEROTON. 

Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, put them into a frjring- 
pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, two onions chopped 
fine, turn them quick in the pan; when done, take the 
beef and lay it in a dish; keep it warm. Make the sauce 
as follows: mix a little flour with a pint of broth, a spoon- 
ful of catsup, salt, a little cayenne pepper, and a spoonful 
of lemon pickle, put it ^in the pan with the butter and 
onions, give it a boil up, strain it over the beef. Garnish 
with horseradish. 



PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT- 31 

TO MAKE BEEF OUVES. 

Tate a rumpsteak six inches square, beat it with a 
rolling-pin, season it with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, 
shalot, winter savoiy, a little beef suet «hrea fine, and a 
few crumbs of bread, bind all with an ^g, then lay 8ome 
on the steak, then a thin rasher of bacon, then more 
seasoning, roU the steak up tight in the shape of a goose 
egg, listen it with a small skewer, wash tne olive over 
with egg and roll it in crumbs of bread, roast in a Dutch 
oven a nice brown. Three make a nice dish. You must 
send up a good gravy in the dish. 

RUMPSTEAK AND OYSTER SAUCE, 

Take a nice rumpsteak about three-quarters of an inch 
thick, broil it a fine brown over a clear fire; when done, 
season it with pepper and salt, lay it on a dish before the 
fire, and have ready some oyster sauce made as follows: 
scald a dozen and a half of fine oysters in their own 
liquor, with a blade of mace, take off the beards and strain 
the liquor, put the liquor and oysters in some thick 
melted butter. Serve up with the steak. 

BEEF CAKES FOR A CORNER DISH. 

Pound some beef that is underdone with a little bacon 
or ham, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, 
shalot, or garlic, mix it well and bind with a raw egg, 
make them into small cakes, firy them a light brown. 
Serve with a good rich gravy. 

BEEF PAUTES. 

Simmer them in water till they will peel, then cut the 
palates into slices; stew them in a rich gravy till as tender 
as possible before you serve them; season with cayenne, 
salt, and catsup, a little browning, some mushrooms, and 
forcemeat balls; if to be served white, boil them in ndlk 
and stew them in fricasee sauce, adding cream^ butter, 
flour, mushrooms, and a little pounded mace. 



32 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 



TO 0RE88 COLD BEEF, OR ANY KIND OF MEAT, CALLED 

CECILS. 

Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, some onion, 
anchovieS; lemon-peel, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and 
batter; mix these over a fire for a few minutes; -when 
cold enough, make it up into balls, dip into egg, and 
sprinkle them with crumbs of bread, fry them a yellow 
brown. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. 

COLLARED PALATES. 

Take four ox palates, well wash them, put them over 
the fire in cold water, boil them till quite tender, throw 
them into cold water, and take off the skin; be particular 
you do not break them ; lay them between two boards to 
keep them flat. Next day make a forcemeat for them as 
follows : quarter of a pound of beef suet, the same of bread 
crumbs, one dozen ot oysters scalded and bearded, a little 
parsley, lemon thjrme, half a shalot, a little pounded 
mace, pepper and salt, chop all together, and bind with 
one raw egg; lay it on the palates and roll them up in little 
collars, tie them in small cloths, boil them two hours, serve 
them up in white sauce. Grarnish with French beans cut 
in diamonds; if you send them to table brown, glaze them 
over, put some brown ^ravy in the dish with mushrooms 
stewea in it. They make a nice comer dish for dinner. 

TO HASH BEEF. 

Cut the meat into slices, shake a little flour, salt, and 
pepper over it, take the bones of the beef, one onion 
sliced, and a little water, stew them together for a quarter 
of an hour, then take out the bones, put in the meat and 
give it a boil up, add a little taragon, vinegar, catsup, and 
one pickled walnut chopped; lay sippets of toasted bread 
round the dish. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEET. 33 



MINCED BEEF. 

Shred the underdone part fine with some of the fat, 
put it into a stewpan with one onion or shalot, a little 
gravy, pepper, and salt, boil it till the onion is quite soft, 
then put m the mince, give it one boil up, have a hot 
dish and sippets ready; before putting the mince in the 
dish, put a spoonful of vinegar with it and one spoonful 
of catsup. 

BULLOCK'S HEART. 

Wash it in several waters, wipe it dry, and stuff it as a 
hare and roast ; serve it with good gravy and currant- 
jelly sauce. Be careful that the dish and plates are very 
hot, as the fat is apt to get chilled. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Prepare the heart as before, stuff it with sage, onion, 
pepper, salt, and crumbs of bread, roast, and serve it up 
with a good gravy in the dish. This eats very much like 



goose. 



TO BOIL A HEART. 



When the heart is well cleansed, stuff it with a good 
veal stuffing, then make a suet crust and cover it over the 
heart; tie it in a cloth, boil it three hours, take the cloth 
o£^ lay it on a dish, cut the crust open and take out the 
heart, lay it on another dish, have ready some melted 
butter and parsley ; send it to table on a water-dish, if you 
have got one, and pour the parsley and butter over it. 
This is an economical way to dress a heart ; it makes two 
nice dishes, the crust and gravy in one and the heart in 
the other. 

A NICE WAY TO DRESS COLD SALT BEEF, CALLED BUBBLE- 
AND-SQUEAK. 

Fry some slices of underdone salt beef very light colour 
in a little butter, boil some cabbage and carrot, chop them 
fine, fry them in the same butter you fried the beef in, add 

D 



34 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 

a little gravy and pepper, lay the vegetables in the dish, 
the slices of beef on the top. 

MARROW BONES. 

Cover the top with a little paste made with flour and 
water, boil them in a cloth; serve them up on dried 
toast. 

OX FEET OR COW HEELS 

May be dressed in various ways. They are very good 
boiled, served on a napkin with melted butter and parsley, 
with mustard and vinegar; or boil them very tender and 
serve them up as brown fricasee : the liquor will do to 
make jelly, or to give richness to soups or gravies; or cut 
them into four parts and dip them into batter made with 
egg and flour, fry them a nice brown. Fry onions, if you 
like them, to serve round qa sauee. 

TO DRESS AN OX CHEEK. 

Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be 
eaten, put it into a stewpan that will cover close with five 
pints of water, simmer it after it has first boiled up and 
been well skimmed for two hours, put plenty of carrots, 
leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a 
head of celery, all sliced, some whole peppers, two ounces 
of allspice, bruised and tied up in a muslin; when the 
meat is tender take it out, take the fat ofl* the soup, serve 
the soup separate or with the meat, as you please; it should 
be a fine brown; add a little catsup, browning and salt to 
taste. If the vegetables are not approved of m the soup, 
you may send up toasted bread cut in dice, and take the 
vegetables out. 

TO POT BEEF. 

Take three pounds of lean beef, rub it well with salt- 
petre, let it lay twenty-four hours, then salt it with com- 
mon salt, let it lay three or four days, then dry it widi a 
doth, season it with black pepper and allspice, lay it in as 
small a pan as mil hold it, put a pound of butter on the 



PBAOTICAL ANP ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 36 

top, cover the pan with brown paper, bake it four or five 
hours in a cool oven, put no liquor in; next day pick out 
all the gristle axni fat, beat the meat very fine in a mortar 
with the butter that is on the top of the pa% add a little 
pounded mace and as much of the gravy as will make it 
mto a paste ; put it into small potting pots, and cover it 
with clarified butter. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or 
roasted, some pepper, salt^ a few cloves, grated nutmeg, 
and a little butter just warm. This eats very nice, but the 
colour is not so fine. 



VEAL. 

TO DRESS A RLLET OF VEAU 

Let the fillet be cut large or small, as best suits the 
number of your company, take out the bone, fill the space 
with a nice stuffing, skewer it round, run a knife in the 
skin and fill it with stuffing, put a buttered paper over 
the top and sides, and tie a tape round; take care to allow 
sufficient time, and put it a good distance from the fire; 
as the meat is very solid, baste it often to prevent its burn- 
ing. Serve with melted butter poured over it. 

A KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 

Wash it very nicely and chop the bone, lay it in a 
saucepan that is very clean, cover it with water ; be sure 
to skim it when it boils, this keeps the meat white; boil 
it very tender; send it to table with parsley and butter 
poured over it, or you can boil some rice in the liquor, 
with two onions, a little mace, and a little of the yellow 
rind of a lemon; send the meat up in this in a tureen; or 
the liquor will make nice white soup. 

b2 



36 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



to: roast a shoulder of veal 

Cut off the knuckle, this will make gravy or a stew ; roast 
the other part with a good stufHn^, cover a caul over it, 
roast a fine brown; send it up with melted butter poured 
over it. 

NECK OF VEAU 

The best end must be roasted and served up as above ; 
the scrag end, boiled, serve up with onion sauce, or parsley 
and butter, if preferred; or it may be stewed with whole 
rice and small onions, or boiled and eaten with bacon and 
greens. 

BREAST OF VEAL COLLARED. 

Take out all the bones and gristle, lay the veal on the 
dresser, and beat it a little with a rolling-pin; lay thin 
slices of ham or bacon on the veal. Make a seasoning 
thus: chopped parsley, a little suet shred fine, lemon 
thyme, and winter savory, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, grate 
of lemon peel; bind the whole with a few bread-crumbs 
and an e^g, lay this over the ham or bacon, place two or 
three yolks of egg, boiled hard, on the seasoning, then 
roll the veal up in a nice collar, bind it with tape. You 
can send it to table white or brown, which you please; if 
brown, roast it one hour, then stew it in a nice brown 
gravy, with a glass of white wine and the juice of a lemon, 
a little cayenne, and a few forcemeat balls, and truffles 
boiled tender. Garnish the dish with notched lemon. 
If for a white dish, boil it in a floured cloth ; it will take 
two hours boiling; send it up with mushroom sauce. 
Garnish the dish with barberries and parsley. 

TO RAGOUT A BREAST OF VEAL 

Cut off the two ends of the breast of veal, so that you 
have a handsome square piece, half roast it, take out the 
large bones, stew it in a good gravy, have an ox palate 
boiled tender and cut in small pieces, throw it in the 
gravy, and some forcemeat and egg-balls made small, a 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 37 

few truffles and morels; stew all together till the meat is 
very tender, take off all the fat that rises to the top; add 
one spoonful of shalot vinegar, a little catsup and cayenne; 
thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour. 
Place the meat on a dish, and pour the gravy over it. 
Garnish with notched lemon. 

CHUMP OF VEAL A-LA-DAUBE. 

Take the chump end of a loin, take out the bones and 
fill the hollow with a good veal stuffing; skewer it up 
tight, put it in a stewpan with the bones, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, one shalot, a little lemon-peel, three blades of mace, 
and a pint of good stock; stew it till quite tender. Take 
out the meat and lay it in a dish. Keep it hot. Be 
careful to take off all the fat from the gravy, and strain it 
through a sieve: thicken it with flour and butter, a 
spoonful of lemon pickle, a little salt and cayenne, and 
throw into the gravy a few pickled mushrooms and 
truffles. Let the gravy boil for five or six minutes, then 
pour it over the veal. Garnish the dish with lemon and 
barberries, 

HARICOT OF VEAL. 

Take a piece of breast of veal, cut it in pieces three 
inches square, fry it a light brown, put it in a stewpan 
with as much gravy as will cover it, a little salt, pepper, 
and a spoonful of catsup; stew till quite tender. Have 
ready stewed in another stewpan, one pint of young green 
peas, two onions, two cucumbers peeled and sliced, three 
or four cabbage-lettuces cut small, and a tablespoonful of 
capers chopped fine. Put the vegetables in with the meat 
and gravy; if not thick enough, add a little flour rubbed 
in butter, put the pieces of meat in the dish, and pour 
the vegetables and gravy over it. Garnish with fried 
oysters. 

FRICANDEAU OF VEAL 

Gut the under side of a fillet of veal, take off the loose 
skin and lard the top, lay in a stewpan any cuttings 



38 PSiLCnCAL Ain> BOOKOHICAL COOKERY. 

of meat yoa hsre^ a bimch of sweet herbs, one canoi oat, 
an onion, and a litde maee. Lay the fi»sandeaa on the 
cottingSy and some rashes of bacon on the tc^ and any 
more cuttings you may have; put in a pint of good stock, 
cover dose, and stew two horns over a slow fiie; take up 
the fricandeau, keep it hot, stiain the liqoor and take off 
the fat, then boil it till it becomes a thick glaze; brush 
this over the top of the £cicandean. Serve with sorrel 
sauce in the <^^>lir 

SCALLOPS OP COLD VEAL. 

TiSixLce ihe veal very fine, set it over the fire, vnith 
a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and cream, with a Etde dust 
of flour for a few minutes, then put it into your scaJlop- 
^ells; put crumbs of bread over the top, with bits of 
butter, and brown them before the fire. Veal or chicken 
eats well done this way. 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin 
slices of bacon, and over this a layer of forcemeat seasoned 
Ugh, mth Bome ahied shalot anl cayenne; roU them up 
ti^t the size of a goose egg, fasten them with a skewer, 
rm> them over with egg and crumbs of bread, roast them 
a fine brown. Serve with a nice brown gravy in the dish, 
with some pickled mushrooms. 

SCOTCH COLLOPS. 

Out veal into thin bits about three inches over, and 
make them rather round, beat them with a roUing-pin, 
and grate a little nutmeg and pepper over them, dip them 
into eggy fry in butter a fine brown, pour the butter off, 
and have readv half a pint of gravy and a little flour; let 
it come to a boil in the pan, with the juice of a lemon 
and a little salt; place the collops nicely on a dish, strain 
the sauce over them. Garnish with notched lemon. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 39 



VEAL CAKK. 

Boil four egss liard, butter a mould or badn^ scald and 
chop some parsiej^ lay it in little heaps round ^e mould, 
with some of the egg cut in slices, then take slices of raw 
veal and ham; lay over this a little pounded mace, wMte 
pepper and salt, then egg and parsley, then veal and ham^ 
and so on until the mould or basin is full; then add a 
little stock made with cow-heel, tie a paper over it, bake 
it for two hours, let it remain till cold, then turn it out on 
a dish. Garnish with parsley and barberries. This makes 
a nice and pretty dish for breakfast or supper. 

A SAVOURY DfSH OF VEAL 

Cut some collops from a leg of veal, hack them with 
the back of a knife, dip them in egg, season with cloves^ 
and mace beaten fine, and pepper. Make forcemeat with 
some of the veal, beef suet chopped fine, sweet herbs, and 
the before-named spices; spread it over the collops, roll 
and tie them up, put them on skewers, tie them to a spit, 
and roast them. Mix a raw egg or two with some force- 
meat, roll it into balls and fry them, put them into the 
dish with the collops when roasted, take Bome strong 
broth or gravy, a shalot, a little lemon pickle, one blade 
of mace; stew and thicken it with a piece of butter 
rolled in fi.our. Strain the sauce into the dish. Garnish 
with lemon. 

SWEETBREADS A-LA-DAUBE. 

Take two or three fine' sweetbreads, put them in a 
saucepan of bculing water for five minutes, take them out, 
when cold lard liiem, put them in a Dutch ov^i to grill, 
then place them in a stewpan with a little veal gravy, a 
little juioe of lemon, and one spoonful of browning; stew 
them gently for a quarter of an hour. A little before 
they are r^y thicken the gravy with a little flour and 
butter, place them in a dish, and pour the gravy over 
them.MGanii8hmthinedoyrtets. 



40 PRACTICAL AND ECOKOiaCAL COOKERT. 

TO FRICASEE SWEETBREADS BROWN. 

Scald thiee sweetbieads; when cold take off all the 
pipes and loose skin, cat them in dices, dip them in egg 
and cnimhs of bread, pepper and salt, firy them a nice 
brown. Bfake a gravy for them as above; stew them 
slowly in the gravy eight or ten minntes, lay them on a 
dish and pour the gravy over them. Ton may add a 
few forcemeat balls if approved of. Ciamish with lemon. 

TO FRICASEE SWEETBREADS WHITE. 

Scald the sweetbreads as above, put them into a stew- 
pan with a pint of veal gravy, half a pint of button mush- 
rooms, a little beaten mace, pepper and salt; stew them 
twenty minutes, thicken the gravy with flour and butter; 
when done lay them in the dish; add a teacupful of 
cream to the gravy, and a little grated nutmeg, snake it 
well over the fire, pour it over the sweetbreads. Gbmish 
with barberries or French beans. 

A VERY NICE WAY TO DRESS A RLLET OF VEAL. 

Take a small delicate fillet, stuff it as for roasting, tie it 
up as tight as you can in a floured cloth to prevent it 
from coming out of shape ; it will take two hours boiling 
very slow; when done, take the cloth off; serve it up 
with mushroom sauce. Garnish with small fried patties 
and crayfish. 

TO ROAST CALPS HEART. 

This makes a very pretty dish; wash the heart 
thoroughly from all the blood, wipe it dry with a clean 
cloth, maKe a forcemeat as follows: quarter of a pound of 
suet shred small, chopped parsley, marjoram, and lemon- 
peel, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and a few bread- 
crumbs; mix all together with an eggj and ^ttiff the heart; 
put a piece of white paper over the stuffing to prurent it 
coming out; roast and baste it with butter, season some 



PKACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 41 

crumbs of bread with salt and pepper, and shake over the 
heart while roasting ; when done, dish it up with melted 
butter in the dish, fry some pork sausages a nice brown 
and lay round the dish. It will take one hour roasting. 

TO POT VEAL. 

Cut the white part of a dressed fillet of veal, free" from 
skin and gristle, cnop it up, put it into a marble mortar; to 
one pound of veal put five ounces of good butter warmed, 
some white pepper, pounded mace and nutmeg, salt to 
taste; if you have any cold ham you can pound some; 
flavour it with pepper and mace, no salt or butter, as its 
own fat is sufficient. Put a layer of veal in your potting- 
pot, then one of ham, then veal, and so on till your pot 
is full; pour clarified butter over it. When you cut it 
out the colours will be varied. 



MUTTON. 

LEG OF MUTTON. 

If roasted, serve with onion, or currant-jelly sauce; if 
boiled, with caper sauce and turnips. 

TO DRESS A HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 

Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the 
usual modes; let it be washed with warm milk and water, 
or vinegar if necessary, but when to be dressed observe to 
wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour 
from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong 
paper and fold the haunch in, set it at a great distance 
from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; 
do not take it off till about half an hour before serving, 
and then baste it continually; bring the haunch nearer 
the fire before you take off the paste; froth it up as you 
would venison. Serve with currant-jelly in a boat and a 
little gravy in the dish. You can use buttered paper in- 
stead of paste if you please. 



42 PRiLCnCAL AND ECONOMICAL COOEEST* 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON ROASTED. 

Serve mth onion sauce and gravy in the dish. 

TO DRESS A BREAST OF MUTTON-A VERY NICE DISH. 

Choose a fine one cut broad, bone, and beat it with a 
rolling-pui, then make a nice forcemeat of suet, bread- 
crumbs, parsley, a little lemon thyme, a little nutmeg, 
pepper and salt to taste, lay it on the meat, roll it up; 
you must bind the forcemeat with an egg. Roast and serve 
with a nch ^avy and forcemeat balls in the dish. Garnish 
with sliced lemon. 

TO ROAST A SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Let it be well kept first, raise the sHn, then skewer it 
on again, roast it, take the skin off twenty minutes before 
serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste and dredge it 
well with flour; the rump should be split and skewered 
back on each side. The joint may be large or small, ac- 
cording to your company; it is the most elegant if it is the 
latter; being broad, it requires a high and strong fire. 
Serve with currant-jelly and gravy in the dish. 

NECK OF MUTTON. 

This may be diseased in Taiious ways: the best end may 
be roasted, and served up with gravy m the dish, or boiled 
and served with turnips, and a little caper sauce, or haricot| 
or in chops, with tomato sauce. The trimmings from the 
neck make a nice pie or pudding for kitchen use. 

LOIN OF MUTTON 

Can be roasted, or served up in chops; if roasted, serve 
with a little ourrant-jelly in a boat, and a little gravy in 
the dish. Be sure the plates and dishes are very hot. 

TO ROLL A LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Take a loin not too fat, take out all the bones, lay a 
seasoning of mace, allspice, nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and 



PBACnCAL Amy £CX)K0HICAL oooksbt. 4S 

salt, all in fine powder, over it, make a stuffing as for hare, 
and add a shalot chopped fine; lay it on the meat, and 
roll it up tight; bind it with a string, roast, and serve with 
cuxxioilrjelly and gravy in the dish* 

MUTTON KEBOBBED. 

Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and a great 
part of the outside, cut through every joint, chop some 
paialey, with a little shalot, taragon, crumbs of bread, nnt- 
megi a little salt and pepper, beat up two eggs, dip the 
chops in it, then roU the chops in the above season- 
ix\g^ place l^e chops together as they were before they 
were cut asunder, tie and fasten them on a small spit, 
roast them at a quick fire, baste with a good piece 
of butter, and dredge them with some of the above 
seasoning, and flour when half-done; place a dish under 
them with a spoonful of lemon pickle, the same of mush- 
room catsup. Serve them up with the gravy that runs 
from them ; if not enough^ add a little more gravy. 



LAMB. 

FORE QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Roast it either whole or in separate parts; serve it up 
with gravy or melted butter in the dish, and sprinkle 
chopped paisley over it; serve widi mint sauce in a boat; 
if roasted whole, raise the shoulder and put the juice of a 
lemon, a little cayenne pepper, butter, and salt. 

LEG OF LAMB 

Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible; 
serve it on boiled spinach, with the loin fried in cnops and 
laid round the disli, with a little caper sauce; if roasted, 
with mint sauce. 



44 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



BREAST OP LAMB BONED. 

Take a breast of Iamb, bone it, sprinkle with nutmeg, 
mace, pepper, salt, a little cbopped parsley, and capers; 
roll it, and stew with cucumbers or tomatoes. This is a 
very excellent dish. 

SHOULDER OF LAMB FORCED, WITH SORREL SAUCE. 

Bone a shoulder of lamb, fill it up with forcemeat made 
thus: a quarter of a pound of beef suet, quarter of a pound 
of lean ham, one dozen large oysters, a little parsley, 
crumb of bread, and pepper and salt to your taste; bind 
it with three eggs, skewer it up tight, stew it in a quart 
of weak broth over a slow fire; when tender, lay it on a 
dish and glaze it; pour the sorrel sauce in the dish. 
Garnish with notched lemon. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Take the cutlets from a neck of lamb, with a bone in 
each, cut them thin, dip them in egg and crumbs of 
bread, with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, fry them in 
lard a nice brown, serve them up with mushroom or 
tomato sauce; lay the chops round. tne dish, and place the 
mushrooms in the middle of the dish, or with cucumber 
sauce. 

TO DRESS A LAMB'S HEAD AND PURTENANCE. 

Skin the head and split it, take out the eyes, then wash 
and clean it exceedingly well, lay it in warm water till it 
looks white, wash and clean the purtenance, taking ofi* 
the gall, and lay it in water, boil it half an hour, then 
mince the heart, liver, &c., very small, put the mince- 
meat in a stewpan with a quart of mutton gravy, a little 
catsup, pepper, salt, and lemon, thicken it with flour and 
butter, a spoonful of good cream; just boil it up. When 
the head is boiled, ruo it over with the yolk of an egg. 



I 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 45 

strew over it bread-crumbs, a little chopped parsley, 
epper, and salt, baste it well with butter, and brown it 
efore the fire, or with a salamander; put the purtenance 

on a dish, and lay the head over it. Garnish with lemon 

or pickle, and serve it up. 

TO DRESS LAMB'S FRY. 

Skin the stones and split them, lay them on a cloth to 
dry, with the livers ana sweetbreads, dredge them well 
with flour, fry them in lard or good dripping; you must 
see the fat is boiling before you put the bits in ; when 
done, lay them on a sieve to dry ; fry a good quantity of 
parsley; lay the bits in a dish and the parsley in lumps 
over it ; pour melted butter round the dish. This makes 
a nice comer dish. 

BONED SHOULDER OF LAMB AS A DUCK. 

Take a shoulder of lamb, with the shank-bone unbroken, 
take out all the bones, and saw the shank-bone in a slant- 
ing direction, to resemble the bill of a duck: the knuckle- 
bone forms the head ; leave two inches of the shoulder- 
bone in so as to form the neck of the duck ; be careful 
not to cut the skin ; make a rich forcemeat, and stuff the 
shoulder where the bones come out, sew it up to prevent 
the stuffing coming out, then turn it up, the seamed side 
downwards, with your hands form it in the shape of a 
duck, put a skewer through the neck and tie the bill down, 
roast it a fine brown; serve it up with chopped spinach 
in the dish round it, scrape the bill white, and glaze the 
head ; make it a pair of eyes with scTme white of egg boiled 
hard and cut round, with a clove in the centre ; cut a 
piece of bread small at one end and broad at the other, 
notch the broad end, fry it a nice brown, and make that 
the tail of the duck; you must send up mint sauce in a 
boat to eat with it. Ijiis makes a pretty dish for supper 
or breakfast sent up cold, with a savoury jelly round it 
instead of spinach, and garnished with parsley and barber- 
ries, ornamented with atlic skewers. 



46 PRACTICAL AND ECONOHICAL COOKERY. 



PORK. 

TO ROAST A LEG OP PORK. 

Choose a small W of fine young pork, cut a space in 
the knuckle, and fiU it with seasoning of onion and sage 
chopped small, pepper^ salt^ and crumbs of bread ; score 
the skin with a shan) knife ; be sure to butter a paper and 
ut it over the lind; set it at a great distance fiitan the 
e or the skin will bum ; serve with apple aauce in a 
boat^ and a little gravy in the dish. Both the hind and 
fore loin can be done as above. 



fir< 



SPRING OF PORK. 

This makes a nice dish done as follows: take out the 
boneSy sprinkle it with salt and pepper, sage dried, and a 
little onion chopped, then roll it up and tie with a string, 
roast, and keep it well basted ; it will take one hour and 
three-quarters at a good fire. Serve it up with gravy in 
the dish and apple sauce in a boat. 

TO ROAST A SPARERIB OR GRISKIN. 

Roast and baste it with a little butter, sprinkle it with 
dried sage, a little pepper and salt. Serve it up as 
above. 

TO ROAST A SUCKING-PIG. 

Put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt and pepper into 
the belly, then sew it up ; take a little sweet oil, rub it 
over the skin, draw a knife round the neck so that you 
may take off the head with ease when roasted, cut the 
sldn down the back from the poll to the tail, not too deep^ 
roast it before a brisk fire; when done, take it down and 
take off the head, split it down the back and belly, lay the 
two halves in a didi, and chop the bread and sage as fine 
as you can, mix it with some good melted butter or gravy, 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL GOOKEBY. 47 

lay it in the dish nnder the pig. Gramish with the ears 
and the two Jaws; be sure to take off the upper part of 
the head. 

TO DRESS PETrrOES. 

Boil them till tender; boil the heart, liver, and lights 
ten minutes, chop them verj fine, put theoi into a httle 
of the gravy they were boiled in, with a little pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, and a spoonful of whtta wine, thicken it wxdt 
a little butter and flour, boil it for five minutes, put it 
into a dish. Garnish with the feet and sippets. 

TO BOIL A LEG OF PORK. 

Lay it a week or ten days in salt, wash it thorou^hl^, 
tie it up in a cloth, as it improves ihe colour, boil it m 
plenty of water, very slow, till tender; serve it with peas- 
pudding and greens. Save the liquor it is boiled in, as 
that will make nice pea-soup, with the remainder of the 
peas-pudding you have left, with the addition of a little 
celery, a few leeks or onions. 

TO COLLAR PICS HEAD. 

Cut off the two eye pieces, take out the bones, and salt 
it with a little saltpetre and common salt, let it lay five or 
six days, then divide the chops, and turn the thin end to 
the thick, have ready four pig's feet boiled tender and the 
bones taken out, a calTs foot and its own tongue, sprinkle 
the whole with a little basil, parsley, pepper, and pounded 
mace, then roll it, tie it in a cloth, and bind it with tape, 
boil it three hours, then take it up and place it unoer 
some heavy weight to press it flat, without removing the 
cloth, or you can remove the cloth when hot, and put it 
in a preSsing-tin which is made for the purpose, which 
will require a weight on the top. Either way it makes a 
nice dish for break&sL If you ^eaae you can glaze the 
head. 



48 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



TO ROAST A PORKER'S HEAD. 

Choose a fine young head, clean it well^ take out the 
bones, make a seasoning as for a sucking-pig, bread, sage, 
salt, and pepper; lay the seasoning on the head when 
boned, rou it up and tie with a string, then roast it as a 
pig. Serve with good gravy and apple sauce. 

TO DRESS A PICS HEAD IN IMITATION OF BOAR'S HEAD. 

Take the head of a large pig, let it be cut fuller than 
usual, \ake out the bones very carefully, saw them off 
near the mouth, leaving the snout and under jaw whole, 
leave the ears on, take out the eyes, lay it on a dish and 
rub it well with saltpetre, common salt, and salt prunel ; 
let it lay for a week or nine days, rubbing it every day ; 
when you dress it, wash the salt from it, stuff it with 
sausage meat, tie a string round its mouth, sew up its 
throat and tie a cloth round the head to keep in the stuff- 
ing, leave the ears out and erect; it is best steamed if you 
have the means ; it will take three hours cooking. The 
tongue must be taken out before you boil it, and boiled 
separate with the head ; peel it and take off the root, place 
the head on a dish, remove the cloth and string, open the 
mouth and put the tongue in, leaving half an inch of the 
tongue out of the mouth, make two tusks with a piece of 
raw turnip, glaze the head, and shake some sifted raspings 
over it; you must put in. a pair of glass eyes, you can pur- 
chase them at any naturalists; you can ornament the 
head with atlic skewers, crayfish, and truffles; at Christ- 
mas time, put a wreath of holly round it. This makes a 
handsome dish for a large dinner hot; or cold, for a ball 
supper. 

MOCK BRAWN. 

Take a set of pig's feet, one cow-heel, and four sheep's 
tongues; boil the pig's feet and cow-heel very tender. 
Take out the bones; also boil the four sheep's tongues, 
peel and slice them. Have ready a belly piece of pork, 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 49 

well salted with saltpetre and common salt; lay the belly 
of pork on a dresser, then place the feet^ tongues, &c., in 
order over it, roll it all up as tight as possible, and tie it 
in a cloth. Boil for two hours; then take it up and 
tighten the cloth. Hang it up for twelve hours. Make 
a brine for it as follows: one pound of salt, two gallons of 
water, a few bay-leaves and sweetbriar; boil and skim it 
well for half an hour. When cold, put the brawn in and 
keep it for use. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS FRICASEED. 

Take a set of feet, and two ears; boil them till tender, 
cut them up in small pieces, then simmer them in a little 
white gravy; add a small piece of shalot and a little 
lemon-peel; thicken the gravy with a little flour and 
butter. If for white fricasee, put a teacupful of cream, 
but do not let it boil after you add the cream ; if for brown 
fricasee, fry the feet and ears, and stew them in a little 
brown gravy, with a little catsup, browning, and a dessert 
spoonful of Worcester sauce; add salt and pepper to your 
taste. 

TO CURE HAMS. 

Let the hams be quite fresh ; pound one ounce of salt- 
petre, half an ounce of sal prunel, rub tliis well into the 
hams; let them lie twelve hours in an earthen pan or 
leaden trough, then rub them well with one pound and a 
half of common salt and one pound of coarse sugar ; turn 
and r^b them every other day for a month, then take them 
out of the pan, drain and well wipe, shake some malt dust 
or bran over them, hang them up in your kitchen, but not 
in too hot a place, as that will turn the fat rancid. Be 
sure to well eicamine them in hot weather, as the flies may 
get to them. If you like them smoked hang them in a 
chimney where there is wood smoke. The above is suffi- 
cient for a ham of sixteen pounds' weight. 

£ 



50 PBACnCAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



HIGH-FLAVOURED HAM& 

« 

Well beat the liams with a roHing-pin, rub in one 
ounce of sal pmnel, two ounces of saltpetre, and half an 
ounce of cloves pounded; let them lie twenty-four hoursp 
then rub them with one pound of salt and one pound of 
coarse sugar; let them lay a week. Boil one pound of 
treacle and one pound of salt in a quart of vinegar, when 
nearly cold pour it over the hams, turn them every day 
for a month, then dry them as above; this gives a high 
flavour to the hams. 

BACOK 

K the pig is large take out the chine, cut the early bone 
from the leg, as this will cause the flitdi to lie fiat; leave 
in the spare-rib, but take out the griskin. Salt it with 
common salt and saltpetre; rub it well in, lay the flitches 
one on the other in a trough or on a dresser, rub and turn 
every day for a month, then hang the flitdies up to dry, 
well sprinkled with bran, and hang in wood smoke. Be 
sure not to let it hang too near the fire, as that will cause 
the fat to run and turn rancid. 

TO PICKLE PORK. 

Cut the pork in such pieces as will be most convenient 
to lie in the pickling-tub, rub every piece all over with 
saltpetre, then take one part bay salt and two parts 
common salt and rub every piece well. Lay the peces 
as close as possible in the tub, and throw a little salt over. 
Lay a stone on the pork to keep it under the brine, and 
cover close. Pork done this way will keep for twelve 
months. 

TO PICKLE OX TONGUES. 

Take the tongues quite fresh, lay them in cold spring 
water one hour, well wash them from the slime, dry wim 
a cloth, salt them well with common salt, and ludf an 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 61 

ounce of saltpetre to every tongue. Lay them in a pickling- 
pan, turn them every day for a week, then salt them with 
more salt, and let them lie ten days longer; then take 
them up, well dry with a cloth, and hang them up. 

SAUSAGES. 

Chop fat and lean of pork together, season it with 
white pepper, sage and salt; well scrape and wash the 
small guts of the hog, until you make them perfectly 
clean, then fill with the above, with a funnel, which you 
can buy at any tin shop. Veal or mutton done in the 
same way are very nice cold for breakfast, by adding 
a little mace. Tou can purchase a small machine for 
making sausages, which chops and fills at the same time. 

TO MAKE BLACK-PUDDINCS. 

Take two quarts of grits, boil them in water twenty 
minutes, drain the water from them, then take one quart 
of the pig's blood, which must be stirred with a little salt 
till cold; then add a little winter savory, pennyroyal, and 
leek, one ounce of cloves, nutmeg and mace, beaten fine 
together; add the blood, grits and herbs, together with a 
pound of the flare of the hog chopped, but not too small; 
mix all together. Scrape and wash the hog's guts very- 
clean ; fill them with the above. You must not overfiU 
the skins or they will burst. Prick them well with a pin 
and throw them into boiling water; boil very gently for 
three-quarters of an hour, take them out and lay on 
a sieve to get cold. 



e2 



52 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



PART lY. 



POULTRY, GAME, &c 

DIRECTIONS FOR DRESSING POULTRT AND GAME. 

Be particular in having the poultry nicely stumped, 
and all the loose hairs singed off with white paper. The 
cook must be careftil to draw all poultry very clean, and 
be sure not to break the gall bag. I hold with washing 
poultry before dressing, but be sure to dry well with a 
clean cloth. 

TO ROAST TURKEY. 

Prepare a nice stuffing of suet, parsley, bread crumbs, 
sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, a little lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt to taste; bind with two raw eggs, and ml 
the crop of the bird with the above; place a piece of 
buttered paper over the breast to prevent it scorching. 
Sausages fried and laid in the dish round the turkey is a 
very nice way, but if you prefer stuffing it with sausage 
meat it will be equally as good. A turkey of twelve 
pounds' weight will take two hours roasting, placed at a 
good distance from the fire; well baste it while roasting. 
Ten minutes before serving take off the paper, and firoth 
it up with a little butter and flour. Serve with a good 
gravy in the dish; bread sauce in a tureen, if approved of. 

TO BOIL TURKEY. 

Stuff the crop of the turkey with a nice stuffing as 
for roast turkey; you may add a few oysters if you like the 
%vour. Sew the skin of the neck up so that no water 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 63 

can get in, well flour it, and tie it up in a cloth; boil it, 
if large, one hour and a half; if small, one hour. When 
done, remove the cloth, and dish it up, and pour celery 
sauce over it, if approved of; if not, white sauce, ana 
serve oyster sauce in a boat. Garnish with barberries, cut 
lemon, and parsley. 

BONED TURKEY, A NICE DISH FOR SUPPER OR 

BREAKFAST. 

Take a large turkey, bone it, have an ox tongue ready 
boiled, place it in the turkey, the thick part towards the 
breast, with some well seasoned forcemeat, or sausage 
meat, if preferred; then truss the turkey up; boil in a 
cloth well floured. It will take one hour and a quarter 
boiling. If for a hot dish, serve with mushroom sauce; 
garnish with barberries and parsley. If for a cold dish, 
glaze it over with a white glaze, and g;amish with savory 
jelly, parsley, and notched lemon. This is a very elegant 
dish for a cold collation. If you have them, stick four 
atlic skewers, dressed with truffles and crayfish, in the 
turkey ; if you prefer it roasted you can do so. Serve it up 
with gravy in the dish. 

TO BOIL FOWLS. 

Choose those with white legs and a white skin, as those 
are the most delicate for boiling; tie them in a floured 
cloth, and let the water be hot when you put them in. A 
pair of large fowls will take three-quarters of an hour 
boiling ; spring chicken twenty minutes after they boil 
up. Serve them up with white sauce, or parsley and 
melted butter; garnish with French beans or parsley. 

TO ROAST FOWLS. 

A pair of large fowls will take one hour roasting if 
roasted singly; ii hung together, you must allow a quarter 
of an hour longer, but tnis must be regulated by the 
strength of the fire. Before taking them up, melt a little 



54 FKACTICAL AND ECOXOMIGAL COOEEBT. 

butter in the ladle, and baste and dredge them with a 
little flour to make them have a nice £roth. Serve with 
gravy in the dish. 

TO FORCE A FOWL. 

Take a large fowl and bone it, make a rich forcemeat 
with veal suet, bread-crumbs, parsley, sweet herbs, a little 
lemon-peel, nutmeg, a small piece of shalot, pepper and 
salt to taste; bind with two raw eggs; stuff the fowl, and 
truss it up in as nice a shape as you can. Either roast or 
boil it. If boiled, you must serve it up with white sauce; 
if roasted, with gravy and a few mushrooms, and force- 
meat balls round the dish. 

TO FRICASEE CHICKENS WHITE. 

Parboil them in a small quantity of water, with a bunch 
of sweet herbs, a little lemon-peel, and a blade of mace; 
take them up and let them get cold, cut them up in joints, 
take a little of the liquor they were boiled in and stew 
them for ten minutes, thicken the liquor with a little flour 
and butter, add a teacupful of cream, salt and pepper to 
taste; be careful not to let the sauce boil after the cream 
is in; place pieces of the chicken in a dish, and pour the 
gravy over it. A few forcemeat balls is an improvement, 
if approved of. Garnish with notched lemon. 

TO FRICASEE CHICKENS BROWN. 

Cut the chicken up in joints and fry it a fine brown, 
stew in a little brown gravy for half an hour, then add a 
little catsup, lemon pickle, cayenne axid salt to taste; 
thicken the gravy with flour and butter; garnish the dish 
with a few fried oysters. 

TO CURRY CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken into pieces^ each joint into two, fry in 
butter, with some onions sliced thin, a light brown, then 
lay the pieces of chicken in a stewpan, put a spoonful of 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 55 

curry powder into the pan you fried the chicken in, with 
the butter and the addition of a little flour; rub smooth 
with about a pint of weak broth or gravy, then strain it 
on the chicken, with the juice of one lemon and salt to 
taste; stew all together for half an hour. Serve it up with 
rice boiled dry round the dish, or in a vegetable dish by 
itself. Rabbit done the same way makes a nice dish. 
Slices of cold meat or poultry can be done in the same 
way, only they will not require so much stewing. 

TO BRAISE CHICKEN. 

Put any cuttings of meat or poultry into a stewpan 
with a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four onions, head of 
celery, blade or two of mace, carrot sliced, then lay some 
slices of bacon on it, and some white paper over that; lay 
in the chicken with the breast downwards; lay on the 
chicken some more slices of bacon and some more white 
paper, put in a pint and a half of stock, cover the lid down 
close, put it over a slow fire or stove for two hours, take 
out the chicken, lay it on a dish, and put it into the oven 
or screen; strain the braise and take off all the fat; boil it 
down till it comes to a glaze ; with a brush put this on 
your chicken. You can braise any description of poultry, 
sweetbreads, or meat this way. If the colour of your 
braise is not dark enough add a little browning. 

TO ROAST GOOSE. 

Chop a few leaves of sage, an pnion, a few bread 
crumbs, pepper, and salt, and stuff the body of the goosey 
skewer the skin up to prevent the stuffing coming out; 
roast it. If a large one it will take one hour and a quarter; 
well baste it. Serve it up with a good gravy in the dish, 
apple sauce in a boat. A green goose will take three 
quarters of an hour roasting: these are not generally 
stuffed with onion, only a little sage, crumbs of bread, 
pepper, and salt. Serve with gravy and gooseberry sauce 
in a boat. 



PRACTICAL AKD ECOSOMICAL COOKERY. 



TO ROAST DUCKS. 

These should be stu^d as geese: they will require 
from three-qoarters of an hour to one boni loasting, 
according to tbe aze. Ducklings will not require so 
long roasting; balf an hour will be sufficient before a 
bri^ fire. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. Do 
not put any onion in the seasoning of the ducklings. 

TO STTW DUCK. 

Bone a large duck, stuff with a good staffing, made as 
follows: Buet, bread crumbs, one dozen oysters, one 
anchovy, and a little shalot, three or four sage-leaves, nut- 
meg, pepper, and salt, bind all with two raw eggs, stuff the 
duck, half roast it, then put it into a stewpan, with one 
pint of gravy, balf a shalot chopped fine, a little brown- 
ing, thi^en the gravy with a little flour and butter; 8 
few truffles or mnshroomB ia a great improvement. Stew 
for half an hour, place the duck in a dish, pour the gravy 
and mushrooms over it. Garnish with notched lemon. 
This makes a nice aide dish. 



TO STTW DUCKS WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Half roast the ducks ; then put them into a stewpan, 
with one pint of good gravy, a httle mint, three or four 
sage-leaves, and a small onion chopped fine; cover them 
close and stew for half an ho^r. Boil one pint of green 
peas, put them into the gravy after you have thickened 
It up; add pepper and salt to taste. Dish up the ducks, 
and pour the gravy and peas over them. 

TO HASH COLD DUCKS. 

Cut the ducks into pieces; take a pint of gravy, nicely 
thickened, add a htUe browning, catsup, and a Httk 
Worcester sauce; stew all together for ten minutes. 



PKACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 57 



TO ROAST WILD DUCKS. 

These do not require stuffing: roast them about twenty 
minutes, place them on a dish, draw a knife down the 
breast in three or four places, shake a little cayenne, and 
a squeeze of lemon or Seville orange over it. Serve 
them up as hot as you can, with good gravy, a little 
shalot chopped fine in it, in a sauce-boat. Widgeon, teal, 
and other wild fowl are dressed in the same manner. 

SALMI OF WILD FOWL 

This can be made of wild ducks, widgeon, teal, &c. 
Cut them into joints and stew them in a good gravy, with 
one glass of port wine, a shalot chopped, a little brown- 
ing, catsup, and pepper and salt to taste; stew for half an 
hour. This makes a nice entree. 

TO ROAST PIGEONS. 

They require from a quarter of an hour to twenty 
minutes' roasting, according to size; stuff with a stuffing 
made of the livers, chopped parsley, a little butter, bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper. Serve them up with melted 
butter and parsley, or a nice brown gravy, which you 
prefer: you can have them larded for a change. 

TO STEW PIGEONS. 

Stuff them as for roasting, brown them in a frying-pan, 
then stew them in a brown gravy; add a little port wine 
and a few forcemeat balls: four make a nice dish for an 
entree. 

boned: PIGEONS. 

Take four pigeons, bone them, stuff them with a little 
bacon, parsley chopped, bread crumbs, a little nutmeg, 
pepper and salt; sew the skin of the necks to prevent the 
stilffing coming out, and be sure not to cut the vent too 
much away, as that spoik the shape of them ; fry them a 



58 FBACnCAL ASD ECOHOMICAL GOOKEBT. 

nice brown, tlien stew them in a nice brown gravy for 
twenty minutes; thicken the giarjr with a Utile floor and 
butter, add a little browning, plaoe the pigeons in a dish 
and pour the gravy over them. You can put a few 
mushrooms, green peas, or asparagus between tiie pigeons 
in the dish, which has a very pretty effect. This is proper 
for a comer dish. 

RABBITS 

Babbits are dressed in various ways: 

Roasted, with a nice stuffing in ihe belly, a good-sized 
rabbit will take half an hour to three-quarters of an hour 
roasting; thismust be judged by your fire. They must be 
trussed hare-£sishion, with the ears left on. Serve with 
good gravy, or parsley and butter, with the livers boiled 
and chopped in it. 

Boiled, a wild rabbit will take half an hour if young. 
Serve with parsley and butter, and the liver boiled and 
chopped, or onion sauce. 

TO FRICA8EE RABBIT BROWN. 

Cut the rabbit into joints, fry in lard or dripping a 
nice light brown, place it in a stewpan, with one pint of 
weak broth or gravy, a little catsup and browning, bunch 
of sweet herbs, haff a lemon, cayenne pepper and salt to 
taste; stew over a slow fire tUl tender, thicken the gravy 
with a little flour and butter, strain it, dish up the rabbit, 
and pour the gravy over it. 

TO FRICASEE RABBIT WHITE. 

^ Cut it up as before, put it into a stewpan with one 
pint of veal gravy, a little lemon pickle, a piece of lemon- 
peel, and a httle pounded mace, cayenne pepper, and salt; 
stew till tender, then thicken the gravy with flour and 
butter, add a teacupful of thick cream with a little nut- 
meg grated; place the rabbit on a dish and strain the 
gravy over it. Be sure not to let it boil up after the 
^eam is in. 



PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 59 



RABBIT CUTLETS. 

Boil a rabbit, take all the meat off the bones, put the 
bones back into the saucepan with some of the liquor the 
rabbit was boiled in; boil them for one hour^ with a 
piece of lemon-peel, blade of mace, and a small onion; 
chop the meat of the rabbit up with a quarter of a pound 
of bacon, a little lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; 
put all into a marble mortar with the white of one egg; 
beat it smooth. If you wish the cutlets to be white add a 
spoonful of cream, and the same of bread crumbs, beat it 
up with the other ingredients, and shape into cutlets with 
your hand and a knife; take one of the rib-bones of the 
rabbit, and stick it in at the small end of the cutlet, 
butter a tin dish, lay the cutlets on it with a buttered 
paper over them, put them in the oven for ten minutes; 
they must not brown, only set; thicken some of the 
liquor the bones were boiled in with butter rolled in 
flour, a little salt and cayenne pepper, let it boil up, then 
add a little cream, lay the cutlets m the dish and strain 
the sauce over them; put any vegetable in the middle 
you please, such as French beans, asparagus, peas, &c. If 
you wish them brown, dip them in egg and crumbs of 
bread, and fry them a fine brown; stick a bone in as 
before. Serve them up with brown ffravy, with mush- 
rooms in the middle. 



SALMI OF PIGEONS. 

Cut the pigeons in quarters, fry them a light brown, 
then put them into a stewpan with some good gravy, the 
juice of half a lemon, one ounce of morels, a little catsup 
and browninff, cayenne pepper and salt to taste; stew 
them half an hour, take them out and lay them on a dish, 
thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, pour it 
over the pigeons. Garnish with green pickles. 



60 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 



TO BROIL PIGEONS. 

Split tlie pigeons down the back, beat them with a 
rolling-pin to make them lie flat, put two skeweis across 
each bird to keep them so; dip them in egg, and season 
with parsley, pepper, salt, mace, and crumbs of bread; 
broil them a fine brown. Serve them up with mushroom 
sauce. 

TO POT PIGEONS. 

Cut them into quarters, season with mace, allspice, 
pepper and salt, rub every part with the seasoning, then 
pack them in a pan as close as you possibly can : to six pigeons 
you must put one pound and a half of butter; lay it on the 
top of the pigeons, then cover the pan with coarse brown 
paper: bake them two hours. When cold, take the 
butter off and place the pigeons into small potting-pots, 
very close; clarify some butter with that you took off, 
and put it over the pigeons. When cold, cover them 
with leather to keep the air from them. They will keep a 
long time in a cold place. 

TO POT CHICKEN. 

Cold roast or boiled fowls can be potted in the follow- 
ing manner: Take the skin off the breast and legs, and 
pound the meat in a marble mortar, with white pepper, 
pounded mace, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a piece of 
butter; pound all very smooth: if you have any cold 
tongue you can pound some with the same spices, but no 
salt, a piece of butter. When quite smooth, put a layer 
of chicken in your pottin^-pot, then a layer of tongue, 
then chicken, and so on till the pot is full : pour over 
clarified butter: keep it in a cool place. 

TO FRY RABBIT. 

Cut the rabbit into joints, and fry, with a few slices of 
bacon, a nice light brown; place the rabbit in the middle 
of the dish, and lay the bacon round; make a little gravy 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 61 

in the pan you fried the rabbit in, with a little flour and 
butter, catsup, salt, pepper, and a little water. Garnish 
with fried parsley. 

TO ROAST HARE. 

When you have cased and trussed the hare, wash and 
wipe it with a clean cloth ; make a stuffing as follows : 
Quarter of a pound of suet, as much bread crumbs, the 
liver chopped, some parsley, lemon-peel, and a little 
winter-savory shred very fine; season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg; moisten all with one egg, and put it into 
the belly of the hare; sew it up, and put it down to a 
good fire; it will take one hour roasting: well baste it 
with butter, and dust it with a little flour before dishing 
up, that it may have a nice froth : be sure you do not put 
it too near the fire at first. Serve with good gravy in 
the dish, and currant jelly in a boat. 

TO JUG A HARE. 

Cut the hare up, and divide each joint into two; season 
with pepper; salt, and a little allspice; put it into a jar or 
pitcher, with one onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of 
sweet herbs; cover the hare with weak broth or gravy, 
then tie brown paper over the top, place it in the oven 
or a saucepan of boiling water; let it stew for four or five 
hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with 
a piece of butter and a little flour, one glass of port wine, 
a little browning, salt, and pepper: place the hare in a 
dish, and pour the gravy over it. Serve with currant 
jelly. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Gut the hare up, as before; season it with pepper, salt, 
a little mace, and allspice; dust it with flour, and fry a 
nice brown in lard or dripping; then place it in a stew- 

i)an, and cover with a good gravy, one glass of port wine, 
itUe catsup and browning, pepper and salt; parboil the 
liver, chop it fine with some suet, parsley, bread crumbs. 



62 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBY. 

and sweet herbs, a little niitmeg, pepper, and salt; add 
one raw egg, and make it into forcemeat balls; fry them 
a nice brown, lay them on the top of the hare, and stew 
for two hours; lay the prime pieces of the hare nicely on 
a dish, and the forcemeat balls on the top; pour the 
gravy over. Serve it up with currant jelly in a boat. 
hns way I consider the best. 

COLLARED HARE; 

When the hare is boned lay it flat on your dresser, lay 
over it forcemeat, made as follows: Quarter of a pound 
of suet, the same of bread crumbs, one anchovy boned, 
some parsley, lemon thyme, and winter savory, nutmeg, 
a little lemon-peel, pepper and salt, chop all together, 
bind it with a raw egg, pound a little mace very fine and 
shake over the hare, put on some of the forcemeat, place 
on that four or five thin rashers of bacon, then the re* 
mainder of the forcemeat, turn the flesh of the legs in, 
and roll the hare up in a tight collar; tie a tape round it, 
to keep it in shape; put it in a stewpan, with one quart 
of good stock, two bay-leaves, four cloves, two spoonfuls 
of browning, one of catsup, and one glass of port wine; 
stew it gently over a slow fire; it will take two hours 
stewing; when done, take it up and lay on a dish; keep 
it hot, remove the tape, thicken the gravy with flour 
and butter, give it a boil up, and strain it over the hare. 
You can put forcemeat balls in the dish if you please. 

TO DRESS A FAWhL 

It is trussed the same as a hare; stuff* it with veal stufi*- 
ing; roast it before a good fire, well baste it. Send it to 
table with a good gravy in the dish, and currant jelly 
and gravy in boats. 

TO POT PARTRIDGE OR GROUSE. 

Pick and draw them clean, wash and wipe them with 
a clean cloth, cut them up in joints, season well with 
-'-^pper, salt, allspice, and mace in fine powder; rub every 



PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 63 

piece well, place them in a piiii or jar as close as you can; 
do not put in the backbone of grouse; lay butter over 
them, and tie a piece of brown paper over the pan; bake 
for two hours; when cold, take them out, and place them 
in small potting-pots, and pour clarified butter over 
them. 

TO POT HARE. 

Take a hare when cased and well cleaned, cut off* the 
legs, chine, and shoulders, rub them well with cloves, 
pepper, mace, and salt, pounded, lay them in a pan that 
will just hold them, lay the bony part on the top, put one 
pound of butter on the top, and tie a brown paper over 
it; bake in a slow oven for two hours; when done, pour 
the gravy from it, and when cold pick the meat off the 
bones, chop it up, and pound it in a mortar, with the 
butter that is on the gravy: you must add a little more 
seasoning, beat it to a fine paste, put it into potting-pots, 
press it down close, and pour clarified butter over it. 

TO POT VENISON. 

Take some cold dressed venison, free from skin and 
gristle, chop it fine, put it in a marble mortar, well poimd 
it; put to one pound of meat one glass of port wine, half 
a teaspoonfiil of pounded lump sugar, nve ounces of 
butter warmed, some cloves pounded fine, pepper, and 
salt. When fine, press it down in potting-pots, and pour 
clarified butter over it. 

PHEASANTS AND PARTRIDGES 

Are roasted the same as turkeys. Serve them up with 
a good gravy and bread sauce. Be sure to stick two or 
three of the longest tail feathers in the rump of the phea-f 
sants when you send them to table. 

GROUSE. 

Roast them as you do partridges. Serve them up with 
a good gravy in the dish, and brown bread crumbs round 
them. They will take twenty minutes roasting. 



64 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

WOODCOCKS, SNIPES, AND QUAILS. 

They must be nicely picked, but not drawn. Roast 
and serve them up on toast, with melted butter or gravy 
in the dish. Some think gravy spoils the flavour of the 
bird, but I do not. They will take twenty minutes 
roasting. 

RUFFS AND REEVES. 

Put a small rasher of bacon over the breast; ten minutes 
will roast them. Serve them up with a good gravy in 
the dish. 

TO DRESS PLOVERS. 

Roast them as you do woodcocks. Serve them up on 
toast. Or they make a very nice stew. Divide them 
into four. Stew them in gravy, a little mace, and one 
tablespoonful of lemon pickle. Thicken the gravy with 
flour and butter. 

TO DRESS PTARMIGANS. 

Roast them as you do grouse. Serve them with a very 
rich gravy. 

TO ROAST LARKS. 

They make a nice dish for the top of the table in the 
second course. Roast them, well baste them with butter, 
and strew bread crumbs over them. They will take ten 
minutes roasting at a good fire. You can put gravy in the 
dish, and brown bread crumbs round. 

GUINEA AND PEA-FOWL 

Are roasted the same as pheasants. They are sent up 
with gravy and bread sauce. 

TO MAKE A GAME OR FRENCH PIE. 

This is a handsome dish for a wedding breakfast or ball 
supper. Make the crust as follows: Put one ounce of 
lard in a pint of water, when it boils, pour it on as much 



PRACTICAL AND EC GNOMICAL COOKERY. 65 

flour as will be suflGlcient for l^e crust. You must make 
it very stiff; knead it well. Do not let it get cold, or it 
will crack. Raise the crust with the hand the size you 
wish ; if you prefer a tin shape, you can raise the crust 
inside that. I prefer raising it with the hand. If raised 
with the hand, brush the outside over with egg; orna- 
ment with flowers cut out of the paste; fill it with bran 
to keep it in shape; put it in a slow oven. It must not 
be too brown. When done, take the bran out, brush the 
inside with a paste brush, then prepare the mixture to fill 
it with as follows: Take a brace of pheasants; skin the 
cock bird as low down in the breast as you can, so as to 
have all the gay feathers with the skin. You must remove 
it very carefully with the head and wings attached. Take 
the rump off with the feathers of the tail. Place all the 
feathers straight on the skin, then put a string through 
the bill and hang it up until the next day. Then pick the 
remainder of the feathers off the pheasant with the hen 
bird, draw and clean them nicely, take out all the bones, 
cut the meat in pieces, season it with pounded mace, nut- 
meg, cayenne pepper, and salt; put it into a stewpan with 
some button mushrooms, a few truffles if approved of, one 
shalot chopped fine; stew all in a quart of good stock 
made from a knuckle of veal or cow-heel. When stewed 
tender fill the pie. Let it stand all night, so that it 
may become set. If you have any of the mixture left, 
add it to the pie in the morning, as it is apt to soak into 
the crust. You may add a few forcemeat balls to the 
mixture if you approve of it. Then take the skin you 
took off the cock pheasant, run a wire skewer down the 
neck, place it on the pie with its tail and wings to make 
it have the appearance of a live pheasant in a sitting 
posture; place the pie on a napkin. Garnish with parsley 
and barberries. 



F 



66 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY- 



PART V. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. 

SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Season your pigeons inside and out with salt, pepper, 
and a little pounded mace; in the bellies put a bit of 
butter rolled in the seasoning. Lay a rump or beefsteak 
at the bottom of a dish, well seasoned; lay the pigeons on 
it. Between every two pigeons the yolk of a hard egg; 
in the middle put the livers and gizzards, a teacupful of 
weak gravy or water in the diSi. You can cut the 
pigeons into two if you please. Place the breast sides 
downwards, then lay a good crust on the top, brush it 
over with egg, and ornament the middle with leaves of 
paste; and the feet of the pigeons scalded. 

RABBIT PIE. 

Out a rabbit into pieces, season it well mth white 
pepper and a little mace, place it in a dish with a few 
rashers of bacon; add a spoonful of good mushroom 
catsup, a little gravy; cover it with a good paste. This 
is good cold or hot. 

THATCHED HOUSE PIE. 

Take a good sized pudding basin, rub the inside well 

with a little dripping, then spread over it two ounces of 

-ermicelli, or more if required; make a good, puff paste, 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 67 

roll it out pretty thick, lay it in the basin, take three 
or four pigeons, season them with pepper and salt, and lay 
them in your basin with the breasts down; put a thick lid 
of paste over them, and bake it in a moderate oven one 
hour and a half. When done, turn it into the dish you 
intend it to go to table on. The vermicelli will appear 
like thatch on the top, which gives it the name of the 
** Thatched House Pie." This makes a pretty comer 
dish for dinner. You can fill it with game or anything 
you please. 

VEAL PIE. 

Cut your veal into small pieces, season with pepper, 
salt, and mace, and a little cayenne. Lay the meat in 
your dish ; boil four eggs hard, take the yolks only, and 
put them in difierent places in the pie; pour in as much 
weak gravy as will nearly fill the dish. A few slices 
of bacon or ham is an improvement. Lay a good paste 
round the dish, half an inch thick, and cover it with a lid 
of the same substance; brush it over with egg, and orna- 
ment as you please. A moderate sized pie will take one 
hour and a half baking. 

VEAL OLIVE PIE. 

Cut thin slices of veal, rub them over with yolk of egg, 
strew over them a few crumbs of bread, shred a little 
lemon-peel fine and put it on them; with a little grated 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt; roll them up very tight, then 
lay them in a dish, with two or three slices of ham on the 
top, and half a pint of good gravy; cover it with a 
good puff paste, brush it over with egg, and ornament as 
before. 

RAISED VEAL PIE. 

Raise a crust as high and as large as you think proper^ 
£11 it with bran, put on the lid, ornament it with cut 
flowers from your paste, brush it over with egg, then bake 
it in a slow oven twenty minutes; this is only to set the 
paste. Then take a sliarp knife, remove the lid as near 

f2 



68 PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

the edge as yon can, so as not to spoil the shape of the pie ; 
take the bran out and brush the inside of the case mth a 
clean brush, until you see it is free from all the bran, then 
fill it with the foUowing: Take two pounds of lean veal, 
half a pound of uncooked ham cut in small pieces, some 
button mushrooms, forcemeat and egg balls; stew all 
together in some good gravy till tender, then season with 
cayenne pepper, mace, and salt to taste. If for a hot dish, 
^ou must fill your pie and send it to table with the lid on; 
if for a cold dish, let the mixture get cold in the pie; 
cover the top with clear savoury jelly. Garnish with bar- 
bei-ries, parsley, and lemon. This pie can be filled with 
any sort of game, pigeons, or meat. It is best not to put 
any bones in. 

MUTTON PIE. 

Cut some steaks from a loin or neck of mutton, take off 
the fat, season them with salt, pepper, and a little, shalot 
chopped fine, put a little water at the bottom of the dish, 
a little paste on the edge, then cover with a good paste; 
brush it over with egg. 

LAMB PIE. 

The loin is the best part to make it of; season it 
lightly, chop a little parsley very fine and shake it over 
the meat; a few mushrooms sliced is an improvement; 
put a little gravy in your dish and cover with a good 
paste; brush it over with egg; when you take it out of the 
oven, put half a pint of rich gravy in at the top of the 
pie with a funnel. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up one or two fowls, according to the size you wish 
your pie to be, season them with pepper, salt, mace, and 
a little cayenne; then place your chicken in the dish, with 
layers of nam, a few mushrooms, and forcemeat balls. Add 
a pint of strong gravy; make a good puff-paste lid; egg 
and ornament the top with the feet of the chicken. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 69 



RUMP OR BEEF STEAK PIE. 

Beat five or six beef or rump steaks with a paste-pin^ 
season them with pepper and salt; lay a good paste round 
the edge of your dish; put the steaks in with half a pint 
of weak gravy, or water, a little shalot chopped fine; put 
on the lid, which must be rather thick. If the flavour of 
oysters is approved of, you can add one dozen with the 
beards taken off. Egg and ornament the top with some 
leaves of paste. 

GIBLET PIE. 

Clean two sets of goose or duck's giblets, put them into 
a saucepan with one quart of water, some whole peppers, 
two or three blades of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, one 
large onion sliced, and a little salt; cover them close, let 
them stew gently till tender, have a good crust ready, 
cover the eo^e of your dish, lay at the bottom a rump- 
steak well seasoned with pepper and salt^ put in the giblets, 
strain the liquor they were stewed in, and pour it in your 
pie; cover with a good paste. Egg and ornament as you 
please. Bake it one hour and a quarter. 

PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Cut your partridges into limbs, well season with white 
pepper, salt, and mace, lay a veal cutlet at the bottom of 
a dish, chop a shalot very fine, and shake in amongst the 
partridges. If you have a little essence of ham it is a 
great improvement, or a few truffles. Put a pint of veal 
gravy in your dish, cover with a good puff paste, and 
brush it over with egg; cut some leaves of paste to orna- 
ment the top with; put the heads and feet, cleaned very 
nicely, in the middle of the pie. 

HARE PIE. 

Cut a hare in pieces, season it with mace, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; put it into your dish^ make a rich force- 
meat of a quarter pound of scraped bacon, teacupful of 



70 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOkArY. 

crumbs of bread, a little winter savory, the liver chopped 
fine, and one shalot; season it high with pepper, mix it 
all up with an egg, m^ke it into forcemeat balls, and lay 
it in between the pieces of hare; put one glass of port 
wine and some weak gravy; cover it with a good paste* 
Ornament as you please. It will take two hours baking 
in a slow oven. 

DEVONSHIRE SQUAB PIE. 

Cover the bottom of a dish with a good paste, then 
cover the crust with sliced apples; take some mutton 
chops, season them with pepper and salt, then a layer*of 
apples, then of chops, and so on till you fill the dish; chop 
one small onion and mix it with a tablespoonful of sugar, 
and shake it over the meat and apples; put half a pint of 
gravy and close up your pie. It will talce one hour and 
a quarter baking. 

CHESHIRE PORK PIE. 

Gut some pork into bits^ take off all the skin, season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little dried sage; lay in 
the dish a layer of pork, then of apple, then pork, and 
then apple, and so on till your dish is full; shake one 
spoonful of sugar and half a pint of water over the meat; 
close with a good crust. Ornament as you please. It will 
take one hour and a half baking. 



HERB PIE. 

Take lettuce, leek, parsley, spinach, and beet, of each a 
handful, give them a boil, then chop them very small; 
have ready two onions, some potatoes boiled and mashed; 
then put them into a Irying-pan with the herbs and a 
good quantity of salt, one pound of butter, and a few 
apples; cut them and fry a few minutes over the fire, then 
fill the dish; cover with a good paste. Bake one hour. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 71 



ROOK PIE. 

Skin and draw four young rooks^ cut out the backbone, 
season them with pepper and salt, lay a good steak at the 
bottom of your dish, then your rooks, with the breast 
downwards ; put half a pint of water in and close the pie. 
:Bake two hours. 

EEL PIE. 

Skin, gut, and wash them very clean, cut them in 
pieces, season with pepper, salt, and a little dried sage 
rubbed very fine; put them into a dish, nearly cover with 
water, make a good crust, and cover up your pie. It will 
take one hour baking. 

LOBSTER PIE. 

Have two large lobsters fresh boiled, take the meat out 
of the tails and daws, cut it into pieces, season it with 
pepper, mace, nutmeg, and a little salt. Lay the pieces in 
your dish; then take the soft meat of the body and the 
spawn, pound it in a mortar with half a pound of butter, 
a few bread crumbs and a little of the seasoning; when 
nice and smooth lay it on the top of the meat in the dish. 
In the mean time, boil the shells of the lobsters in a pint 
of water for twenty minutes; when strained, put it mto 
your pie. Cover it over with a good crust. It will take 
one hour and a quarter baking. 

SALMON PIE. 

Take a piece of salmon, well clean it, remove the skin, 
cut the salmon into small slices; have ready one pint of 
picked shrimps, pound them in a mortar with half a pound 
of butter, a little mace, pepper, and a very little salt; lay 
the fish in your dish, and place the pounded shrimps be- 
tween every layer of salmon; boil the skins of the shrimps 
in half a pint of water with one tablespoonful of vinegar, 



72 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY, 

for twenty minutes; strain, and pour it into your dish; 
cover with a good crust. It will take one hour and a half 
baking. 

A NICE MACKEREL PIE. 

Clean and gut three mackerel, cut off the heads and 
tails, divide each mackerel into four pieces; season with 
parsley, fennel, pepper, and salt; place them in your dish; 
roll half a pound of butter in flour, and lay it in lumps on 
the mackerel. Put half a pint of water, then close the 
pie with a good crust. 



PUDDINGS, &c. 

OBSERVATIONS ON PUDDINGS. 

In boiling puddings, be careful the water boils before 
you put your pudding in, and that the pudding-cloth is 
perfectly clean, and your moulds well buttered. Boil in 
plenty of water, and be sure the water keeps boiling. If 
you boil your pudding in a cloth, put a plate at the bottom 
of the saucepan or it will stick to the bottom. When you 
take it up untie the string, and let it stand a little to cool. 
When you bake puddings see that the oven is in good 
order; if too slacK, the pudding will not rise, and look 
soddened; and be sure to butter your pan or dish, as it 
prevents the pudding adhering to the sides. 

GROUSE PUDDING. 

Make a rich suet crust, line your basin, bone two 
grouse, cutrumpsteak in pieces, and mix with the grouse; 
season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; fill the basm, put 
a crust on the top, tie a cloth over it. It will take two 
hours boilinff. Stew the bones in a little good gravy. 
When you dish the pudding up, strain the gravy into 
your dish. 



PRACTICAL AKD ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 73 



LARK PUDDING. 

Bone two dozen of larks, season them witli salt^ pepper, 
and a little slialot, chopped fine; line a basin or mould 
with a rich suet crust; cut a rumpsteak in pieces, and 
season as above. Put a layer of steak, then of larks, and 
so on until your basin is full. Put a crust over the top, 
and tie a cloth over it. It will take two hours and a half 
boiling. 

RUMPSTEAK PUDDING. 

Cut your steak into pieces, season with salt and pepper; 
if approved of, you may add one dozen of oysters, with 
the beards off; line a basin with a good suet crust, close 
the top, and tie a cloth over it. If steamed it will not 
require a cloth. It will take two hours boiling. 

BAKED BEEFSTEAK PUDDING. 

Take two pounds of beefsteaks, beat them well with a 
paste-pin, season with a little salt, pepper, and a little 
scrape of onion; grease your dish and lay the steak at the 
bottom, make a batter with two eggs, pint of milk, one 
pound of flour, and a little salt; pour over the steak. One 
nour and a half will bake it. 

BAKED MUTTON PUDDING. 

Take steaks from the loin or neck. You must take off 
some of the fat or the pudding will be too rich; well 
season the chops with pepper and salt, place them at the 
bottom of your dish, and make a batter as above. Bake 
in a slow oven one hour and a half. Under-cooked meat 
done in this way eats very nice by adding a quarter of a 
pound of suet shred fine to the batter. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 

Take five eggs, beat the whites to a high froth, add a 
quarter of a pound of pounded and sifted lump sugar, beat 



74 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

it for a few minutes longer, grate a little lemon-peel, and 
add a few drops of orange-flower water; then beat the 

irolks and add them to the whites, and beat a few minutes 
onger J then shake in by degrees a quarter of a pound of 
S round almonds, still keep beating it well; — it will take 
alf an hour beating. Well butter a dish and pour ;^our 
mixture in. This quantity will make a small pudding. 
Bake half an hour. 

TO MAKE A BATTER PUDDING TO EAT UKE CUSTARD. 

Boil one quart of milk with a bay-leaf^ a stick of cin- 
namon, and a few lumps of sugar. When the milk has 
boiled for two or three minutes, take out the leaf and cin- 
namon, mix five ounces of flour with a little more milk, 
make it quite smooth; thicken the milk with it. Be sure 
you do not bum it. Set it by to get cold. Beat eight 
eggs, leave out three whites; mix all together well. Butter 
a basin and dredge well with flour; then put in the mix- 
ture. If steamed, butter a paper and lay on the top; if 
boiled, tie a cloth over the paper. Boil one hour and a 
half. When you take it up let it stand a few minutes, 
then turn it carefully on your dish. Serve with melted 
butter and sugar. 

TO MAKE POTATO PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of potatoes, boil and pass them 
through a sieve; beat half a pound of butter to a cream, 
grate the rind of two lemons very fine, and add the juice, 
with six ounces of pounded lump sugar and five eggs; 
beat all together for ten minutes. Put a thin crust on the 
bottom and rim of your dish, then put in the mixture. 
It will take one hour baking. 

EVPS PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of bread crumbs, the same of suet 
shred fine, half a pound of apples chopped fine, the same 
of currants well washed ana picked, the rind of half a 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 75 

lemon chopped fine, five ounces of pounded lump sugar; 
bind the whole with five eggs; well butter a mould. It 
will take three hours boiling. Shake pounded sugar on 
the top before sending to table. 

CHESNUT PUDDING. 

Boil one dozen of chesnuts in water twenty minutes, 
blanch and beat them in a mortar with half a pound of 
butter, a little rose-water, six ounces of pounded lump 
sugar, a little grated nutmeg; beat six eggs in a stewpan, 
then add the mixture to the eggs, and mix them well 
together. Put the stewpan over the.fire, and keep stirring 
until it becomes thick. Put a puff paste over the dish. 
Bake one hour. 

BAKED LEMON PUDDING. 

Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of two large 
lemons, five ounces of pounded lump sugar ; soak half a 
pound of Savoy biscuits in a teacupful of milk, half a 
poimd of butter, and a little nutmeg; mix all together, 
with six eggs well whisked up, with one glass of rum. 
Put a rim 01 paste on your dish. Bake three-quarters of 
an hour in a quick oven. 

BOILED LEMON PUDDING. 

Take the juice and rind of two lemons grated, half a 
pound of beef suet shred very fine, the same of bread 
crumbs, a little nutmeg, five ounces of pounded lump 
sugar ; mix all together with four eggs, butter a mould 
well, put a buttered paper on the top, and tie a cloth over 
it. Boil one hour and a quarter; turn it out on a dish. 
Serve with brandy or rum sauce. 

MARROW PUDDING. 

Take a teacupful of bread crumbs, one pint of milk 
boiling hot, cut half a pound of marrow very thin, a 
quarter of a pound of currants well washed and picked, a 



76 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

little nutmeg and sugar, two ounces of candy orange and 
lemon peel cut very ihin^ one glass of brandy; mix all 
together with four eggs. You can either bake or boil it. 
If baked^ lay a thin crust on your dish; ornament the 
top with blanched almonds, candy-peel, and dtron« If 
boiled, butter a mould well, and lay some pieces of citron 
round it. 

SAGO PUDDINa 

Boil two ounces of sago in a quart of milk till quite 
tender, then stir in two ounces of butter, some sugar, and 
nutmeg; beat four eggs; then mix all together with a little 
rose-water. Line your dish with a paste, put in the mix- 
ture, and shake a Httle sugar over it before you put it into 
the oven. It wiU take half an hour baking. 

TO MAKE CITRON PUDDINGS IN CUPS, TO TURN OUT. 

Melt two ounces of butter in one pint of milk, thicken 
it with two tablespoonfuls of flour and two ounces of 
bread crumbs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, cut quarter of a 
pound of citron very fine ; mix all together with four eg^ 
butter your cups, and put the mixture in. Bake them in 
a quick oven twenty minutes; when done, turn them on a 
dish, and shake sugar over the top. Serve them up with 
wine sauce. Five make a pretty dish. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING. 

Boil five ounces of rice in water, with a bay-leaf and 
a stick of cinnamon; when tender turn it into a sieve to 
drain, then beat it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of 
butter, the same of lump sugar, grate some nutmeg and 
lemon-peel, add half a pound of currants, well washed and 
picked, four e^gs, and a teacupful of milk; beat all toge* 
ther, and boil m a well-buttered basin one hour and a half. 
Serve with melted butter and sugar. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 77 



ARROWROOT PUDDING. 

Mix three spoonfuls of arrowroot with as much cold 
milk as will make it into a smooth batter^ make a pint of 
milk boiling hot, pour it on the batter, well stir it to keep 
it smooth, melt a quarter of a pound of butter, the same 
of pounded lump sugar, a little peach kernel water, five 
eggs; beat all together for ten minutes. Put a crust at 
the bottom and edge of your dish. Bake three-quarters 
of an hour. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING, TO BAKE UNDER A JOINT OF MEAT. 

Take three eggs, four large spoonfuls of flour, one quart 
of milk, and a little salt; mix it all together. Put a pudding 
dish under the joint in the dripping-pan; it must be aflat 
tin dish. Let a little of the fat drop in before you put the 
batter in; when it becomes brown on the top cut it in 
square pieces; turn it over when it is brown on that side. 
Serve it up on a dish, "with a strainer under it. You can 
mix boiled batter pudding in the same way. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Shred half a pound of suet, mix with it one pound of 
flour, a little salt, two eggs, a little milk, and grated 
ginger. Boil it in a well-buttered basin two hours and a 
half. 

BOILED APPLE PUDDINa 

Make a good crust of flour and suet, or good dripping, line 
a basin, pare and core as many apples as will fill it, two or 
three cloves, a bit of lemon-peel chopped fine, a quarter of 
a poimd of sugar; put a crust on the top of the basin, tie 
a cloth over it; boil two hours. Tou can make any sort 
of fruit puddings in the same way. For gooseberry, cur- 
rant, cherry, apricot, plum, rhubarb, and mulberry you 
must add more sugar, and omit the cloves and lemon-peel. 



78 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

GROUND RICE PUDDINa 

Boil three ounces of ground rice, with a bit of cinna- 
mon and a bay-leaf^ in a quart of milk, with sugar to 
taste; stir in two ounces of butter, put it by until cold, 
then mix four eggs well beaten. Bake in a dish with 
paste on the edge. A few drops of rose-water is an im- 
provement, 

OXFORD DUMPUNGS. 

Take two ounces of currants, the same of suety shred 
fine, and bread crumbs, some candy-lemon and oraa^e- 
peel cut small, a little nutmeg and sugar to taste; wet uie 
whole with a spoonful of brandy and one egg; roll them 
into small dumplings the size of a hen's egg, then dip 
them into egg and crumbs of bread; fry them in a little 
lard or dripping a fine brown. Serve with wine sauce 
in the dish. 

CABINET PUDDINa 

Take the crust off a twopenny French roll, cut it into 
thin slices, soak it in a custard made as follows: Put one 
quart of milk over the fire, with a stick of cinnamon, 
a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and a bit of lemon- 
peel; when it boils pour it on four eggs well beaten, stir 
it two or three minutes, then put it to your bread; butter 
a mould rather thick, stick dried cherries or stoned 
raisins, with pieces of candy-peel and citron round the 
mould; a little almond flavour is an improvement in the 
custard; then fill up vour mould with the bread and 
custard, put a buttered paper over the top, and steam it 
one hour. Serve with brandy sauce. 

BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDINa 

Cut thin dices of bread-and-butter, lay them at the 
bottom of a dish well buttered, strew over them some 
currants well washed and picked, some candy-peel cut 
thin, and a little nutmeg grated, then bread-and-butter,, 
then currants and peel, and so on till your dish is full. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 79 

For a moderate-sized dish take three eggs, pint and a half 
of milk, some sugar, beat all together, then pour it over 
your pudding; bake three-quarters of an hour; when 
done, turn it out of your dish, and shake pounded sugar 
over it. 

TO MAKE LITTLE CASTLE PUDDINGS. 

Beat half a pound of buttec to a cream, by degrees 
shake in six ounces of pounded lump sugar, a uttle 
lemon-peel grated and nutmeg, half a pound of flour; 
beat all together with four eggs for half an hour; butter 
little shapes, pour in the mixture, bake twenty minutes. 
Serve with wine sauce. 



APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Take half a pound of apples, peel and core them, boil 
them in as small a quantity of water as you can; when 
done, beat them fine, add five ounces of melted butter, 
the same of sugar, half the rind of one lemon grated, and 
a little nutmeg; beat up five eggs, then mix all together; 
butter a plain mould very thick, cut stale bread very thin; 
cut a piece the shape of the bottom of your mould, lay 
it in, then place pieces round the sides as close as you 
possibly can, then put in the mixture; it will take one 
hour baking. When you send it to table, turn it out on 
a dish, sift pounded lump sugar over i^ and a warm 
custard round it. 

LEMON CHARLOTTE* 

Take the juice of two large lemons, the rinds grated, 
half a pound of lump sugar, quarter of a pound of bread 
crumbs, six oimces of melted butter, and six eggs; beat 
all together in a stewpan over the fire till it becomes 
thick; pour it in your mould, prepared as above. It will 
take three-quarters of an hour baxing. Serve it up with 
pounded Jump sugar over it. You can make Orange 



80 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 

Charlotte in the same way^ only boil the ped and pound 
it in a mortar. Seville oranges are the best; you must 
shift the water two or three times while boiling. 

CARROT CHARLOTTE. 

Take half a pound of raw carrot grated, three ounces of 
bread crumbs, two ounces of melted butter, a tablespoon- 
ful of orange-flower water, four ounces of pounded lump 
sugar, five eggs, and a little pounded cinnamon; prepare 
a mould as above, pour in the mixture; it will take one 
hour and a quarter baking. Serve it up mth melted 
butter and sugar, and a glass of rum over it. 

TO MAKE RICH PLUM PUDDINa 

Take one pound of bread crumbs, one pound of cur- 
rants, one pound of raisins, stoned, quarter of a pound of 
mixed peel, cut very thin^ one nutmeg grated, a little 
cinnamon pounded, one pound of suet shred very fine, 
half a pound of brown sugar; mix all together with eight 
eg^ and one glass of brandy; well butter a mould or 
basin, and dredge it well with flour; it will take six 
hours boiling. When you take it up untie the cloth, 
and let it stand ten minutes, then turn it out carefully on 
a dish ; shake powdered lump sugar over the top. Serve 
with brandy sauce in a boat. If you please you can make 
a hole in the top of the pudding and fill it with brandy, 
and set a light to it before going to table, which must be 
done the last minute. 

PLAIN PLUM PUDDINa 

Take one pound of suet, one pound of flour, half a 
pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, stoned, some 
sugar, a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, a quarter of 
a pound of candy-peel; beat four eggs with a little milk, 
then mix all together; boil in a basin. Serve with wine 
sauce. It will take four hours boiling. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 81 



TO MAKE PRINCE OF WALES PUDDING. 

Chop four ounces of apple, the same quantity of bread 
crumbs, suet, and currants well washed and picked, two 
ounces of candy-lemon, orange, and citron, chopped fine^ 
three ounces of pounded lump sugar, half a nutmeg 
grated ; mix all together with four eggs. Well butter and 
flour your basin, put in the mixture, and place a buttered 
paper on the top, and a cloth over the paper. If you 
steam it the paper is sufficient. It will take two hours 
boiling* When you dish it up, you can stick blanched 
almonds, cut the long way, into the pudding; it has a 
very pretty effect. Serve with wine sauce in the dish. 

MACARONI PUDDINa 

Boil three ounces of the pipe macaroni in a quart of 
milk, with a piece of lemon-peel and a stick of cinnamon; 
when tender turn it out into a basin to get cold, and 
take out the cinnamon and lemon- peel; beat four eggs 
with five ounces of sugar, one spoonful of peach-water; 
melt two ounces of butter; then mix all with the ma- 
caroni; well butter a dish. It will take three-quarters of 
an hour baking. You can put a puff-paste crust on the 
edge of the dish if you please. 

TREACLE PUDDINa 

Make a good crust with suet or dripping, roll it out 
thin and line a basin, then cut eight or ten pieces the 
size of the basin, grate the rind of one lemon and take 
the juice, mix it with one pound of treacle, pour a little 
on the crust in the basin, then place one of tne pieces of 
crust over that, then more treacle and crust, and so on 
until the basin is full. Boil it one hour and a half. Serve 
it up with melted butter and treacle. You must tie a 
floured cloth over the basin. 



8S nttCDIG^ A3n> BOQRtnaiGlL 



♦■.t.ll;<l:^; 



BAKED TREACLE PUDDIlia 

Put three pints of milk over the fiie, throw in two 
canoes of 1)atter, thicken the milk witii one poond of 
floor. When boiled stand it bytill cold, then stir in one 

E>mid of tieaole, the juice and rind of a lemon grated, 
utter a diA; bake one hour. This is a nioe pudding 
for-thenmseiy. 

BAKED RICE PUDDBia 

Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of nulk, with a 
bay-leaf and -stick of cinnamon, tul tender; heait three 
eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of suet shred 
fine, and one pint more milk; mix all together. Put it 
into your dish well buttered; grate a little nutmeg on the 
top. It will take three-quarters of on bour baking. 

VENETIAN PUDDiNQ, TO EAT COUX. 

Boil one quart of milk with a few bitter almonds, 
three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass, two ounces of 
lump sugar; beat four eggs; let the milk boil for a few 
minutes, tihen pour it on the eggs^ break a quarter of a 
pound of ratafias and half a pound of sponge cake intou 
basin, and pour the custard over it; stir till it nearly 
becomes cold, then put it into a mould ; stand it in a cool 
place till it becomes strST. This pudding is best made the 
day before using, if you have not ice to set it in. When 
you wish to send it to table, dip the mould in some luke- 
warm water for a few seconds, turn it out on your dish, 
and pour a syrup of fruit over it, which you can make 
with any kind of fruit you have, by boiung it with a 
little sugar and straining it. 

JENNY LINO PUDDING. 

Boil pne pint and a half of milk, with a piece of ciur 
namon and lemon-peel, three-quarters of an ounoe 6£ 
isinglass, a quarter of a pound of lump sugar; flavour with 



TBJaanCAL and EGOKCiaGAL OODKHBar. 68 

a little peach water. Let it boil two or three minutes^ 
then beat the yolks of six eggs^ pour the milk boiling hot 
on the eggs, and keep stiinng; take a plain mouldy rub 
the inside with a little sweet oil or butter^ then stick 
dried ohenies all over the mould as thick as you can place 
them, so that the mould is not visible; when the custard 
begins to set pour it into the mould, and place it in a cool 

}>lace. This is best made the day before you require it 
or use* Turn it out as above. 

TO MAKE SNOWBALLS. 

Half boil three^qnairters of a pound of xice, then peel 
six large boiling apples, scoop the core out clean, fill the 
hole with pounded lump sugar, and a little lemon-peel 
chopped fine; have some smaJl pudding cloths ready, lay 
a laige teacupful of rice on the cloth^ then place the 
apple on the rice, with a little jdce on the top of the 
applet gather the cloth and rice round the apple, tie it 
quite tight with string; do so until you have used all the 
apples. They will take three-quarters of an hour boiling. 
Be careful when you take them up that you do not break 
them. Serve with melted butter and sugar. 

TO MAKE SPANISH PUFFB. 

Place a pint of milk over the fire, chop the rind of half 
a lemon fine, put it in the milk with tibiee ounces of 
butter, stir in as much flour as will make it into a stiff 
ball; let it cool; then beat it in a mortar with four ounces 
of sugar, the yolks of four eggs and two whites, beat it 
until it becomes light and smooth; have some lard boil- 
ing in a stewpan, then drop in the lard a piqce of the 
mixture the size of a walnut; fry a fin^ light brown. 
They will swell as large as an egg plum if you make them 
right. Lay them on a sieve to drain. Dish them up on 
a napkin, nicely folded, and shake pounded sugar over 
them. 



62 



84 PRACTICAL AlH) ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 

OBSERVATIONS ON PRYING PANCAKES AND PRITTERS. 

In flying pancakes and fritters you must be very par- 
ticular that the pan is clean ; it should be one kept for 
that purpose only. Let the fire be free from smoke. The 
lard or dripping very sweet* Be sure it is boiling hot 
before you put Vie pancakes or fritters in« 

TO MAKE GOOD PANCAKES. 

Take five spoonfuls of flour, one quart of milk, mix the 
flour with a little of the milk, add the remainder by de- 
grees, put half a teaspoonful of grated ginger, a little salt, 
beat five eggs well, and mix aU together ; put lard in a 
frying-pan; when thoroughly hot pour a ladleful of batter 
in, which will make the pancake, moving the pan round 
so that the batter may spread all over it; well shake the 
pan. When you think one side is done, turn it; when 
done lay it on your dish before the fire, and in like man- 
ner do the remainder of the batter. When you send them 
to table, shake a little pounded lump sugar over them, 
and a lemon cut in half on a plate. 

TO MAKE A PLAINER SORT OF PANCAKE. 

Beat three e^^s with one pound of flour and one pint 
and a half of milk, a little salt; fry them in good dripping; 
mix a little pounded cinnamon with a little fine pounded 
lump sugar. Shake it ovQr the pancakes before serving. 

TO MAKE PLAIN FRITTERS. 

Take one pint of milk, three eggs, beat as much flour 
as will make it rather thicker than a common batter 
pudding, add sugar to taste; drop them into the lard with 
a spoon; fry them a fine brown. Serve them up on a 
napkin, with sugar and pounded cinnamon over them. 



PRACTICAL AND ECOKOMICAL COOKERY. 85 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Fare large baking apples^ take out the core "with an 
apple scoop, cut them in slices, and dip them in a batter 
made as above; fry them crisp. Serve them up on a nap- 
kin with pounded lump sugar sifted over them. 

TO MAKE A RNE FRITTER. 

Take half a pint of bread crumbs, pour over them one 
pint of milk boiling hot, let it stand for two or three 
hours, beat it excee£ngly fine, put to it four eggs, four 
ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter melted, one nutmeg 
grated, a tablespoonful of rose water, beat it all together, 
and fry a light orown. Serve them up with wine sauce 
in the dish. Tou can add four ounces of currants if you 
please. Sift a little pounded lump sugar over them. 

ORANGE OR LEMON FRITTERS. 

Pare oranges, cut them in slices, take out the seeds,, 
melt five ounces of sugar in two spoonfuls of water, and 
boil the slices of oranges in it for ten minutes. Tou must 
not cut them too thin. Make a batter with three eggs, a 
little flour and milk; it must be rather thick, so that it 
does not run off the orange when you dip it in. Fry them 
in lard a fine brown. Serve them up on a napkin, with 

Sounded sugar over them. Put one spoon&l of orange- 
ower water to the syrup you boiled the slices of orange 
in. Send it to table in a boat with the fritters. 



PASTRY. 

OBSERYATIOKS OH PASTRY. 



You must choose the coolest place you can get to make 
your pastry in, and let the butter be quite nrm; if salt, 
wash it in two or three waters to take the salt out. A 



86 PBlOnCil. AUTD BCONOMICAI. COOKBRT^ 

marble or slate slab is beet to roU it on. If the paste is 
made in tbe morning in summer time it is mucb tne best^ 
and let it lay until it is wanted ; keep it in a oool place, 
and the air &om it. You most also be very psrtioiilar 
in yonr oven ; if it is too liot it will brown tlie paste'before 
it rises ; if not hot enough, the butter will run out of the 
paste before it lieea. For a puff paste you must have 
rather a quick oVen. 

RICH PUFF PASTE. 

Take' one pound of flour, the seme of butter; rub a 
quarter of the butter in. the floury work it up with cold 
water into a stiff paste, loU it out thiur put half of the 
butter on it in small pieces, shake a little flour over it, 
tlien fi>ld it up, roll it out tliin, and put the remainder of 
the butter as before; well roll it again, lay it in a cool 
place with a joeee q£ papa ondet it It i» better for laying 
a little time before using. When you require it for use 
idU it out again. 

A LESS RICH PASTE. 

Bub a quarter of a pound of lard in one mmai of flour, 
work it into a paste with c»ld water, roll it ont tfain, lay 
on it four omices of butter in small piece^ sb^e a Uttfe 
flonr over it, fold it up and roll out thin, lay on two 
ounces more butter, shake a little flonr on it, fold it up 
again, and roll it out two or three times. Lay- it by for 
use. Diipping makes an excellent cruet for general use, 
particularly for meat pies and puddings. 

A COOa SHORT CRUST. 

Bub in four ounces of butter in ax. ounces of flour, one 
ounce of pounded lump sugar ; make it into a paste with 
cold wato; ; work it well on a alab. BoU it out thin for 



k 



BBJUnSDGAL AND' BCG3XOmXSAL COOKBBT. 87 



murr pies. 

Wet the' edge of your diah^ and lay a border of crust 
ever it^.then put in the fimit and a sufficient quantity of 
sugar, roll out the crust, and lay it over the top of your 
dish; cut it nicely round the edge. Cherry, damson, 
plum^ gooseberry, currant, rhubarb, or apple, can all be 
made in die same way. If apple, grate a bttle lemon-peel, 
and add two or three cloves and a litde water, or a uttle 
quince gives it a nice flavour. Black currants make an 
excellent pie, but you. must be sure to put some water in 
the dish. Sift a little fine pounded lump sugar over youjr 

E'es when they go to table, or ice them over as follows: 
eat, four ounces of lump sugar in a mortar with the white 
of one e^, a teaspoonful of rose water; beat all togellier 
till it wiU just run,, then with a feather or paste-brush lay 
it on liie pie ;' put it into the oven to harden. Do not let 
the oven.be too hot or it will bro^im it. 

TO MAKE TOURTES. 

Tourtes can be made with any^sort of jams; they must 
haTe a.pa^ over, the bottom and edge of ike dish,, then 
put in the jam;, ornament the top with bits of paste in 
the shape of leaves, or work a basket top, which you muat 
make: uius:< work a little butter, flour, and water into; a 
paste^ not too stifl*, rub it in your hands and on the slab 
till you find.. you can pull it to what lengtih. you like;, then 
butter an oval tin shape, which you can. buy for the 
purpose, place a piece of the. paste round the edge of the 
tin,, then pull, the paste out the size of a thick bobbin,, cross 
it over the mould in the form of basket-work; keep wosk* 
ing die-paste in. your hand or it will become diy.. When 
done put it into the oven for four or five minutes; if dry 
enough it will slip ofi" the tin* You must be very careful 
it does not break. Put it on the tourte. When turned 
out on the dish you intend it to go to table in, ornament 
the- edges with bita of baked pastry and jam. 



88 PSACnCAL ASD ECOHOMIGAL COOKEBT* 



MINCE PIES. 

Shred two pounds of suet fine, stone and chop two 
pounds of raisins, take the same quantity of currants 
picked and washed well, rub them in a doth and dry them 
at the fire; pare and core one dozen of apples, chop them 
very fine, one pound of pounded lump sugar, one pound of 
candy, lemon, orange, and citron cut very thin, quarter of 
an ounce of mace, the same of cinnamon in powder, cloves, 
and one nutmeg grated ; grate the rind of a large lemon 
and squeeze the juice, chop one pound of inside of sirloin 
of beef, mix all well together, wet it with half a pint of 
brandy or white wine, press it down close in a stone jar 
or pan; it will keep good for twelve months. Tou can 
make it without the beef if you please. When you make 
the pies line the inside of the patty-pans with a thin crust, 
put the meat in, and place a crust over it a quarter of an 
mch thick ; bake in a quick oven. Shake pounded lump 
sugar over them before they go to table. 

TO MAKE CHEESECAKES. 

Turn one ^uart of warm milk with half a teaspopnful 
of rennet, let it stand for ten minutes; when turned strain 
the whey from the curd, rub the curd through a rieve, 
mix witn it a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of 
sugar, a little orange-flower water, one tablespoonful of 
brandy, some nutmeg and cinnamon in fine powder; beat 
all together with four eggs till it is quite light, lay a 
crust on the patty-[>ans, and fill them three parts full; lay 
on the top a little citron or candy-peel cut very thin, and 
blanched almonds split. Tou may add a quarter of a 
pound of currants to the mixture if you please. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

ANOTHER. 



Soak two penny sponge-cakes in half a teacupful of 
milk, the rind of half a lemon grated, four ounces of 
butter melted, two ounces of pounded lump sugar, a 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERT. 89 

little nutmeg; mix all together with three eg^ well 
beaten, line your patty-pans and half fill them with the 
mixture, and ornament ^e tops as above. 



LEMON CHEESECAKES. 

Melt four ounces of butter, five ounces of pounded 
lump sugar, the rind of two lemons grated very fine ; 
wet one Savoy biscuit with the juice of the lemons, beat 
the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two; mix dl to- 
gether in a stewpan, put it over the fire, keep stirring till 
it becomes thick ; line the patty-pans as before ; hafif fill 
them. Bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO CHEESECAKES. 

Take three ounces of potato boiled, rub it through a 
sieve, grate the rind of a large lemon, and half the juice, 
a little grated nutmeg, three ounces of pounded lump 
sugar, four ounces of melted butter; beat all together 
with three e^^s ; line and fill the patty-pans three parts 
full; shake a little pounded lump sugar over them. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

ORANGE CHEESECAKES. 

Squeeze the juice of a Seville orange on a penny 
sponge-cake, boil the rind and change the water three or 
four times, to take out all the bitterness ; pound it in a 
mortar with half a pound of lump sugar; when pounded 
quite, fine and smooth, add the cake and half a pound of 
butter melted, five yolks and three whites of eggs; mix 
all together in a stewpan over the fire until it thickens ; 
line the patty-pans with good puff-paste ; half fill them. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

RICE PASTE FOR SMALL TARTS. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in as small a 
quantity of water as you possibly can, beat it in a mortar, 
with four ounces of butter, a little sugar, one egg beaten; 
add a little more rice-flour, if required, to make it into a 



90' SUCTICAI>. Unv ■COBOUCAL COOSBBK 

|nBte;'iollitODt,snd line the pans or diehes. "jniu paste 
nukes a nice fihwiif"?! 

OY8TER PATTIES. 

Make a good puff^iaste, roll it out Lalf an inch thick, 
then cut the paste with a patty-cutter any me you wish 
(you can bar a set of them in a tin box), mark the 
middle of each patty with one of the small cutters, bmah 
CCg over Uie edges, cut the lid with a cutter a size larger 
^a die one you mark tiie middle of the patty with, and 
egg that also; bake them on a sheet of tin, the lids sepa- 
rate; if the oven is in good order they will rise very 
high. When done, take out the bit of crust in tb!e 
middle, and fill them with the following mixture: — 
Scald three dozen of OTsters with a little mace, beard 
and chop them, stnun me liguor dirough a tawn sieve 
and put it to the oysters, thicken it with flour and butter, 
a little scrape of shalot if approved of, and a little cayenne 
pepper; when boiled add a little cream; fill the patty- 
tases with the mixture, and put on the lid. When you 
serve them up, put them on a napkin nicely folded. 
Garnish with a Uttle paisley. This quantity of oysters 
will fill one dozen of patties. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. 

Theae are made in the same way : season with the some 
•eaBoning, with the ezcepliou of the shalot. You must 
ftdd a Uttis of the black spawn of the lobster, pounded, to 
fp.v& it a nice colour. 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 
Take a little of die white part of chicken chopped fine, 
a little lemon-peel chopped, & little grated nutmeg, white 
pepper and salt to taste; add a t«acupful of white gravy 
to the chicken, give it one boil, thicken with butteB 
rolled in. flour; add a little cream to whiten it. FiUyom 
*inttio8 ai iMfbre. 



FfiitGrriGAL AHB BCOKQMICAL GOOXEBT. SI 

VEAL AND MAM PATTIES. 

These are made and seasoned as above: add a little 
chopped parsley. 

SWEET PATTIES RESEMBLING MINCE PIES. 

Take the meat of a boiled cairs-foot, pare and core two 
large apples, chop them very fine with the. meat, two 
ounces of candy-peel shred nne, four ounces of pounded 
lump sugar, the same of beef marrow, a little grated 
nutmeg, four ounces of currants well washed and dried; 
well mix all together with a glass of wine; line the patty- 
pans, and fill them with the mixture; cut the lid with a 
{)atty-cutter, and lay it on tiie top. Shake pounded 
ump sugar over them when they go to table. 

FRIED PATTIES. 

Ghop some cold veal, or any cold meat you. may have^ 
and a little shalot, parsley, and lemon-peel chopped fine; 
pepper and salt to taste, add a little gravy, and boil all 
upf thicken it with butter rolled in fiour; stand it by to 
get cold; then take some good paste, roll it out thin,, cut 
it into pieces round or square, put some of the above mixr 
tace' on one of the jneces, then cover it with another 
piece, pinch the edges close to prevent the gravy comine 
out, fry them in hog'sJard or dipping a nice brown. 
They mak« a pretty dish, or to garnish a large dish. 

VOL-AU^VENT, OR LARCSE PATTY. 

This you must have a cutter for, which you can buy a 
set of in a box of any respectable tinman;, make a. good 
puff-paste, roll it out halt an inch thick, then take the 
largest cutter and cut four pieces of paste, lay them on a 
tin sheet to bake, mark three of them in the middle with 
&e third nze cutt^, leave one plain,^ brush one of the 
thieeover witii egg, cut a^lid wifli the fourdi size cutter, 
the same thickness) brush- it over with egg, and omament 



92 PRACTICAL Am) ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

with leaves of paste to fancy; bake them all in a ^uidc 
oven; when done, take out the centre of the three pieces, 
and build them up on the plain piece, leaving the one 
you egged for the top. Tou can fill it with anything 
you please, sweetbreads and mushrooms, chicken, lobster, 
or oysters; season with shalot chopped fine, mace, cay- 
enne pepper and salt to taste, add a little gravy, thicken 
with flour and butter; when boiled add a little cream. 
The mixture must not be too thin, or it is apt to come 
through the paste. Place the vol-au-vent on a napkin in 
the di^ it is to go to table in, fill it with the mixture 
prepared for it, put the lid on, send up hot. (jamish 
witn parsley. 

TO MAKE OYSTER LOAVES. 

Take five or six French rolls, let them be nicely rasped, 
put them into a stewpan, with some good dripping or 
lard, let them fry a fine light brown, make a hole in the 
top of each, and take out all the crumb; scald and beard 
three dozen of large oysters, cut each oyster in two, strain 
the liquor to the oysters, adding a little pounded mace 
and cayenne pepper; give them a boil up, thicken with 
butter rolled in flour, and add a teacupful of cream, then 
fill the rolls, and put the piece of crust you took off on 
again. Serve them up on a napkin. Garnish with 
parsley. 

MUSHROOM LOAVES. 

Wash some small button mushrooms, boil them a few 
minutes in a little water, and put to them two spoonfuls 
of cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little salt and 
pepper. Boil this up and fill the rolls, and do them in 
the same manner as above. 

SAVOURY OMELET. 

Beat up six eggs, put them in your omelet pan, in 
which must be four ounces of hot butter, put in the eggs, 
a little scraped ham or tongue, and parsley chopped very 



PRACTICAL AKD ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 9S 

fine, and a little chive ; season with pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg; fry it brown on the under side, and lay it on a dish, 
but do not turn it; hold a hot salamander over it for two 
or three minutes to take off the rawness of the eggs; 
stick curled parsley in it; serve it up hot. If you Eave 
not a salamander, make a shovel hot, it will answer the 
same purpose. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET. 

Boil a handful of the greenest asparagus you can get, 
cut it in small pieces as far as it is ^een, beat up six 
eggs* a little salt and pepper, mix with the asparagus; 
ut four ounces of butter in a frying-pan, make it quite 
ot, then put in the omelet ; fry over a slow fire, lay it 
carefully on a dish, and hold a hot salamander over it for 
a minute or two. 



I 



SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

Take four slices of bread half an inch thick, toast and 
butter them well, take the crust ofi^, and spread over ihem 
some anchovy paste, lay them one on the other, pour over 
thick melted butter made with milk. Send up to table 
very hot. 

TO ROAST CHEESE. 

Grate a quarter of a pound of parmesan cheese, three 
ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of butter, and one 
egg, mix them together in a mortar, with a teaspoonful 
of mustard, pepper, and salt, toast some slices of bread, 
butter and cut them round the size of the top of a teacup, 
spread the cheese rather thick; brown with a salamander, 
oend them to table on a napkin quite hot. 

TO BOIL MACARONI. 

Boil six ounces of macaroni till quite tender, in weak 
gravy or water, lay it on a sieve to drain, put it into a 
stewpan with a piece of butter, a teaspoonful of mustard. 



M KBaumc&L iUfD 



:->j:::i]'iiM.iP»t-:i:ii.tH 4 



mA ttik to taste; grate half a pound of paniiesan cibees^ 

Si a little into the macaroni, diake it well up, tnmit on a 
hf and put the remainder of the cheese over it. Brown 
it with a salamander or Dutch oven before the fire. 

FONDUE. 

Put a pint of milk over the fire, with two ounces of 
butter, Btir in as much flour as will make it as thick as 
hasty pudding, let it Btand idll nearly cold, grate five 
ounces of parmesan cheese, beat the yolks of five eggs, a 
little pepper and .mustard, mix all together, put it into 
your fondue dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a high 
j&oth just before going in the oven, mix the whites genfly 
in; you must not fill the dish, as it rises very much. 

RAMAiGNS. 

The mixture is made as for fondue; they are baked in 
little papers made 'for the purpose; you can buy or make 
tham yourself. Place them on a tin dish, put in the mix- 
ture just as you put them in the oven; you must not let 
the oven be too hot, or it will bum the papers, nor too 
cool, or it wiU not rise the ramakins ; a dozen makes a 
dish. 

TIMBLE OF MACARONI. 

Boil half a pound of the pipe macaroni in water, with a 
little salt, till tender, but not too soft; strain it; when cold 
cut into pieces a quarter of an inch long, well butter a plain 
mould, with a wooden skewer place the pieces of macaroni 
on the bottom and round the sides of the mould, as close 
as you possibly can ; finish the bottom before you com- 
mence the sides; have ready some chopped meat, well- 
flavoured veal, ham, cold turkey, or chicken, add the 
white of one raw egg, well work it together, and fill the 
mould with it; place a buttered paper on the top ; steam 
it for one hour, When you send it to table put your dish 
on the top of tlie ^lould and turn it over carefully ; take 
off the mould. If it is made, right it will look Iik§ 



PBAOnCAL A3XB VCOBLOmCAL CQQKEST. 9S 

honeycomb when turned out. Tou can send up white 
or brown gravy round it Jf yon hanre any cola tongue 
or ham by you make a star, and place it at the bottom of 
ihe mould, and work the macaroni round itj it has a very 
pretty effect against the white. 

PUFFS, 

PuBs should be made of good puff-paBte, rolled out, 
and cut any shape you please; balce them on sheets of 
tin; whenbakfid^put jam of any Bort in ihe middle. 

TO MAKE RICE PUFFS. 

Boil in milk a quarter of a pound of rice quite tender, 
let it be quite dry, beat it in a mortar, with two ounces 
of butter, two ounces of sugar, .a little grated lemon-peel 
and nutmeg; have ready washed three ounces of currants, 
a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, mix all together 
with two e^gs; well butter a clean tin, .and drop the miz-^ 
ture on wiSx a spoon; let them be some distance apart; 
shake a little pounded sugar over them, tied up in a bit 
of muslin, before you put them in the oven; ten minutes 
will bake them. 

TO MAKE WAFERS, 

Take a spoonful tvf orange-flower water, two spoonfuls 
of flour, two of sugar, and two of milk, one yolk and two 
whites of eggs, beat all together for half an hour, make 
the wafer tongs hot, and pour a little of the batter in; 
bake them over a store; when done roll them round a 
stick ; when cold they eat crisp. 

TO MAKE FURTS. 

These must be made of puff-paste ; roll it out and cut 
it in round pieces, the size of a «rown piece; bake them 
on a sheet of fin; when done spread some jam on the flat 
aide, and stick them together, two and two; shake a little 
pounded lump sugar o^er the top. 



96 PRACTICAL AISTD ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 



TO MAKE CAUFPRE8. 

Beat three eggs well, with three spoonfuls of flour, a 
little salt, mix uiem with a pint of milk, one ounce of 
pounded lump sugar, half a nutmeg grated; beat them all 
together, then make your gauffring tongs hot, rub them 
with a bit of butter, fill the bottom part of the ton^s and 
clap the top up, turn the ton^, and when a fine brown 
on Doth siaes put them on a dish. Serve with wine sauce 
in the dish. You must not lay them one on the other, as 
that makes them soft. Tou can put in currants if you 
please. 

TO MAKE CUSTARDS. 



Put one quart of new milk over a slow fire, one stick of 
cinnamon, a piece of lemon-peel, five ounces of lump sugar; 
when it boils take it off the fire, and beat eight yolks of 
eggs; pour the hot milk over the eggs, and keep them 
stirring aU the time; strain it through a sieve, put it in a 
jug, have a saucepan on the fire with boiling water, place 
the jug in it, and keep stirring it till it is the thickness you 
wish; when cold, put in a glassful of brandy and a little 
peach water; pour it into custard cups; grate a little nut* 
meg over the top. 

PLAINER CUSTARDS. 

Boil one quart of new milk, with a bay-leaf, a few 
bitter almonds, four ounces of sugar; wet a tablespoonful 
of ground rice, and stir it into tne milk before it boils; 
beat the yolks of five eggs in a basin, pour the milk boil- 
ing hot on them, keep stirring all the time; when cold 
take out the bay-leaf, fill your cups, and shake a little 
pounded cinnamon or nutmeg over them. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Peel two large lemons, squeeze the juice, six ounces of 
lump sugar, one quart of water; boil all together for ten 
minutes; beat the yolks of six eggs, the whites of four for 



PSACrnCAL AND BCOKOmCAL COOKERY. 97 

ten minutes; take out the lemon-peel, pour the water to the 
eggs^ keep stirring all the time; strain it back into the 
saucepan, set it over the fire for three or four minutes; be 
sure you do not let it boil, or it will curdle; keep stirring 
it for some time after you take it off the fire; when nearly 
cold put it into glasses. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Put a stick of cinnamon and a bay-leaf in a quart of 
milk, five ounces of sugar; let it boil five or ox minutes; 
beat six ^gs well, pour the milk to them, stirring it all 
the lime; if you bake it in a dish, put a good paste on 
the edge of me dish, if in cups, butter them before you 
put the custard in ; grate a little nutmeg over the top. 



9§ miiiifmcML Ami^w^mmxiAL eo&tatBBr. 



PART VI 



SWEET DISHES, &c. 

TO MAKE A DISH OF 8WEET MACilRONI. 

Boil three ounces of maearoni, with a stick of cm** 
namon and a little lemon-peel, in a pint and a half of milk; 
add three ounces of sugar; when boiled quite tender, and 
it has soaked up all the milk, lay it in a glass dish; make 
a snow as follows: Peel and cofe six apples, boil them in 
as small a quantity of water as you can ; when soft, put 
them in a sieve to drain, beat the whites of six eggs to a 
stiff froth, beat and sift a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, 
stir it in the eggs, then put the pulp of the apples in 
another basin and beat it up to a hign firoth, then work 
the apples and eggs all together till they look a stiff 
snow; lay it on the macaroni as high as you can. Tou 
may put custard on the macaroni before putting the snow 
on if you please. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 

Put some gooseberries in a jar, place them in the oven, 
with two tablespoonfuls of water, enough sugar to sweeten 
them; when soft beat them through a sieve; boil a pint 
of milk with a piece of lemon-peel, beat the yolks of 
three eggs, stir the hot milk into the eggs; mix uiis with 
the gooseberries, or you can put cream if you have it. 
Serve up cold in custard cups. 



nMGTICAL AND ECOIfOMIGAL CQ015SBT. 99 



ilPPLE: RX)k» 

Boil apples witk a little lemon-peel, pass them, through 
a sieve, sweeten them to taste; pcepare the custard, and 
mix as directed in gooseberry fool. Serve in Custard 
cups,, iivith a little nutmeg grated on the top, or a mtafia 
cake.. 

TRIFLE. 

Lay sponge, macaroon, and ratafia cakes in the bottom 
of a glass dish, pour over as much white wine and brandy 
mixed as they will soak up; make a rich custard ; when 
cold pour it over the soaked cakes, then put raspberry or 
apricot jam over the custard, then whip up some cream, 
wine, lemon-juice, and sugar to a stiff firoth; lay it on 
a sieve to drain; just before you send it to table lay the 
froth on the custard as high as you possibly can. 

APPLE TRIFLE.. 

Pare and core eight large apples, boil them in as small 
a quantity of water as you possibly can, a little grated 
lemon-peel, five or six cloves tied up in a bit of muslin, 
half a pound of lump sugar. When boiled enough take 
the cloves out, and beat the apples well up; when cold 
put in a glass dish. Lay over the apple some Savoy 
Discuits, over that a rich whipped cream as for trifle. 

LEMON WHIPS. 

Take six ounces of lump sugar, rub some of the lumps 
on the rind of two lemons, until you get all the essence 
out; put the sugar into a pint of cream, half a pint of 
white wine, with the juice of the lemons; mix it all 
together and beat it with a whisk for half an hour ; leave 
it till the next day, then make a hole with a spoon in the 
cream, and take out a little of the whey, and put it 
in your jelly glasses, and heap on the firoth as high as you 
can lay it. These will keep for some time. 

. h2 



100 PBACnCAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



RASPBERRY WHIPS. 

Sub fresh raspberries or raspberry jam through a sieve 
to take out all the seeds, mix witn cream and su^ar to 
taste, whisk it up, take off the froth as it rises, and lay it 
on a sieve; if it is not a good colour add a few drops of 
prepared cochineal; put a little raspberry jelly or jam in 
your jelly glasses, and heap the froth on them as mgh as 
you can. 

FLUMMERY. 

Boil one quart of milk, with a stick of cinnamon and 
four ounces of lump sugar, mix gentlv in half a pound of 
rice flour, and stir over a slow fire till it becomes thick; 
add a little peach water, and put it into an earthenware 
mould; when cold turn it out. Ornament the dish with 
currant jelly, and custard in the dish. 

LEMON CREAM. 

Melt three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a 
teacupful of water, with the grated rind of two lemons, 
strain it through a lawn sieve, then take five ounces of 
pounded and sifted lump su^ar, put it in a basin, add the 
juice of the lemons; put to it one pint of cream, whisk it 
well up for five or six minutes, then add the isinglass to 
it, which must be nearly cold; whisk it up for a minute 
or two longer, put it into a mould, wnich should be 
copper, and well tinned, or a good tin answers very well. 
W hen you wish to send it to table dip the mould into 
lukewarm water, give it a shake, and slip it on your dish. 
Tou can ornament the top of the mould before you put in 
the cream if you please. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. 

Take ripe raspberries or raspberry jam, rub it through 
a sieve to take out the seeds; put five ounces of pounded 
lump sugar if the raspberries are fresh ; if jam, a very little 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 101 

sugar will do ; melt three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass, 
put a pint of cream to the raspberry juice, and sugar; 
whisk it well together; if it is not a good colour add a few 
drops of prepared cochineal ; add the isinglass to the cream, 
fruit, and sugar; whisk it a little more. When you find 
it getting thick put it in the mould, which must be 
a copper one, as tin will cause the raspberry to turn purple. 
Turn out as before. 

STONE CREAM. 

Melt one ounce of isinglass in one pint of milk, a feyr 
bitter almonds pounded, and four ounces of lump sugar; 
when the isinglass is thoroughly melted put in half a pint 
of cream, give it one boil up, strain it through a muslin, 
and keep stirring till nearly cold and you find it setting 
round the basin; put apricot or any jam in the bottom of 
a glass dish, and pour tne cream on the fruit. When set, 
ornament the top with any sweetmeats you may have 
by you. 

WELUNQTON CUSTARD. 

Boil a quart of milk, with one ounce and a half of 
isinglass, a piece of lemon-peel, cinnamon, and four ounces 
of lump sugar; beat the yolks of six eg^. When the 
milk has boiled for a minute or two pour it to the eggs, 
and keep stirring all the time. Stram it through a Ime 
sieve; add a few drops of ratafia. Be particular to stir it 
often, till you find it is getting thick, then put it into a 
mould; an earthenware one is the best. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Melt three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in half a 
teacupfiil of water, the rind of one lemon grated, and the 
juice of two ; strain it through a sieve or muslin ; let it 
stand to get cold, but not to set; in the mean time beat 
the wUtes of five eggs to a high snow, have read^ six 
ounees of pounded and sifted lump sugar, shake it in by 
degrees to the eggs, then put in the isinglass and lemon^ 



102 FRAlCnCAL il30> EGOKOMIGAL COOE££T« 

beat it a few nnnutes more^ then put it into a mould; a 
copper one is the best; a tin mould will turn it black if it 
ifi kept in too long. It is best made the day it is wanted 
for use. You can make an orange, raspberry, or noyeau 
sponge in the same way. 

BLANC-MANCaE. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in a quart of new milk, a 
piece of cinnamon and sugar to taste; when the isinglass 
IS melted strain it through a lawn sieve or muslin; add a 
few drops of ratafia or peach water; keep stirring till 
cold; wnen you find it getting thick put it into a mould. 
You can ornament the top of the mould with a Kttle red 
jelly before you put in the blanc-mange. A little cream 
is an improvement to blancmange, it makes it look 
whiter, and eat richer. 

JAUNE-IVTANGE. 

Melt one ounce and a half of isinglass in a pint of 
water, with the rind of a lemon grated fine, four ounces 
of lump sugar, the juice of two lemons, two glasses of 
white wine; when it boils up pour it over the yolks 
of five eggs well beaten up, keep stirring till cold; strain 
it through a sieve; when it thickens put it into a mould. 

PME-APPJJE CREAM. 

Melt one ounce of isinglass in half a teaenpfiil of water, 
strain it, let it get nearly cold, but not set; pound half a 
pound of preserved pine-apple in a mortar and pass it 
ifarougha sieve, mix it with three-quarters of a pint of 
Gream, whisk it well up for ten minutes. If you find it is 
aiot sweet enough, add a little pounded and sifted lump 
sugar; add the isinglass, bea^ it up well, and put it. into 
your mould5 which must he copper or iin. You can cu(i 
up some of the pine-apple in smallpieoes and put them.in 
ihe cveaoa, if you improve ^of it. 



mAessu^Oi m»j> mQm>wmL fioosfsir. 108 



CINQBt OREAIN. 

Melt one ounce of isinglass in half a teacupful of water, 
with one teaspoonful of grated ginger; let it boil up, then 
strain it through a piece of muslin; let it cool; slice a 
:quarter of a ipound of preserved ginger, put it to a pint of 
rcream, two. ounces of pounded and sifted lump sugar, and 
4ihe flyntp «of the preserved ginger, the juice in half a 
lemou'; whisk all together for ten minutes, then. add ;the 
iffinglasB, .and whiflk it up again. Put it into your mould. 

t)RMIQE CRBMII. 

'This is l)est made in a plain mould. Melt one ounce of 
isinglass as l)efore, rub a few lumps of sugar on the oranges 
to toke out the essence, and melt it with the isinglass; 
strain it through a sieve; squeeze the juice of four China 
oranges to five ounces of pounded lump su^ar ; add three- 
quarters of A pint of cream; whisk it up ior ten minutes, 
iSkea add the isinglass, and whisk it up a^cdn; peel and 
cut an orange in half, .take out the.p^ cutitinthm aliofis, 
.lay.it on .the bottom and jouad the sides of your .mould. 
But ihe.cs^m in. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Boil a stick of vanilla in a ^teacupful of water for ten 
minutes; in that melt one ounce cf isinglass; stcain it 
through a piece of muslin and let it get cold ; whisk up a 
pint of cream with the juice of half a lemon and five 
ounces of pounded and silted lump sugar for ten minutes, 
•tiben add the isinglass; whisk it up and pot it into your 
mould. If you have not the stick-vaniUa, use the essenoe. 

NOYEAU CREMN. 

Melt one ounce of isinglass in a Jittle water, strain it. as 
beforq, beat up three-quarters of a pinjt of thick cream, 
with two glasses of noyeau, two ounces of pounded aiid 



104 PRACTICAL AHD ECONOMICAL COOEEBT. 

nfted lump sugar^ and the juioe of half a lemon. If pink 
noyeaiiy aod a few drops of prepared cochineal; add the 
iringlass; whisk it up and put it in your mould. 

BURNT CREAM. 

Boil a pint of cream with sugar, a little lemon-peel; 
beat the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two separately; 
take a spoonful of flour and two of orange-flower water, 
and a little milk; stir in the cream when it boils up; take 
it off the fire, let it stand for ten minutes, then put in the 
eggs; well mix them together, put it over the fire, and 
keep stirring till it becomes thick; put it in the dish you 
intend it to go to table in. When cold, shake over the 
top a quarter of a pound of sifted lump sugar; hold a hot 
salamander over it till of a fine brown and crisp. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Melt one ounce of isinglass in a teacupful of water; 
make a teacupful of coSee as strong as you possibly can; 
quite the essence; let it be clear; put to the isinglass and 
co£fee one pint of thick cream, and as much pounded lump 
sugar as is pleasant. Give it one boil. When nearly cold, 
put it into a mould. 

TEA CREAM. 

This is made in the same way with the best hyson you 
can get. 

CHARLOTTE A LAY RU88E. 

Take a plain mould, run a little jelly into the bottom, 
let it stand till it becomes sel^ and place a little preserved 
fruit in any form you please upon it; place Savoy biscuits 
or penny sponge cakes, split, round the sides of the mould; 
put them as close as you possibly can, then make a cream 
as follows: Melt one ounce of isinglass in half a teacupful 
of water, strain it, and let it get nearly cold, but not set; 
take three-quarters of a pint of good cream, three ounces 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY, 105 

of pounded and sifted lump sugar, one teaspoonful of 
essence of vanilla; put the isinglass into the cream, and 
whisk it well up. When you find it getting thick, put it 
into the mould that you have lined with the cakes. It is 
best made the day it is wanted for use; if it stands too 
long the cakes become soft. 

CALF8-FOOT JELLY. 

Put four calf's feet, nicely cleaned, into a saucepan 
with five quarts of water, let them boil gently for five or 
six hours, then strain through a aeve. When cold, take 
off the fat and sediment at uie bottom; put the jelly into 
a stewpan with the rind of three lemons cut very thin, a 
piece of cinnamon, squeeze the juice of six or eight lemons^ 
a pint of white wine, one pound of lump sugar, and the 
whites of seven eggs; whisk this all together for five or six 
minutes. When the jelly is melted, pour it to the eggs, 
wine, &c.; whisk all together for five or six minutes, then 

Eut it back in the stewpan, and put it over the fire; let it 
oil for twenty minutes, then pour it into a flannel jelly- 
bag, which must be wrung out of hot water very dry; 
let the jelly run into a basin. If it does not run fine, 
pass it through the bag again till it looks clear and bright; 
ornament the top of a mould with a little fruit of any kmd; 
pour in a small quantity of jelly to set the fruit, then fill 
up the mould with more jelly, which must be nearly cold^ 
or it will cause the fruit to rise to the top. 

Cow-heels make a fine jelly. To two cow-heels, half 
boiled and cut up, put five quarts of water; boil five 
or six hours; stram through a sieve. Clear and flavour as 
above. If you have not a cupboard for the jelly-bag, put 
a cloth over it, and let it stand near the fire. 

HARY8HORN JELLY« 

Simmer half a pound of hartshorn shavings in two 
quarts of water till it becomes one quart, strain it and let 
it get cold, take off the sediment at the bottom, put it 



106 jnUGTZGAL AKP JSOOHOWCAL COOS£B¥. 

into a saucepan inth the rind of two lemons cut as thin 
as possible, the juice of four oranges and of i;he lemons^ 
half a -pound of lump sugar, one glass of brandy, ihe 
whites of four eggs beaten to a froth; mix all together 
with the jeHy when melted, put it over the fire, and well 
whisk it up; let it boil for ten minutes, then run it 
through a jelly-bag till clear, and fill your moulds as 
above. 

UEMON JELLY. 

Melt two ounces of isinglass in one quart of water, take 
fhe rind of three lemons cut -very thin, the juice of sii^ 
one pound of lump sugar, the whites and shells of five 
eggs; mix all together and whisk it well up; boil for ten 
minutes, then pour it into your jelly-bag, and pass it 
backwards and forwards till it becomes bright. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Take two 'Seville oranges, five ounces of lump sngai^ 
rub the rind of the oranges with some of the lumps d[ 
sugar till you get out all the essence, squeeze the juice of 
;the two Seville oranges and nine Chma oranges, the juice 
Bnd peel of one lemon ; boil two ounces of isinglass in one 
pint of water* When thoroughly melted, put m the juice 
of the oranges and susar, boil and take off the scum aa it 
lises, strain it throu^ a lawn sieve or a muslin; let it 
settle before putting it into your mould. This quantity 
is sufficient to fill one quart .mould. 

CLEAR GRANGE JELLY. 

Melt two quarts of cow-heel stock, three-quarters of a 
pound of lump sugar, the juice of three Seville oranges, 
rub some of the lumps of sugar on the rind to take out 
the essence, the juice of fourteen China oranges, the peel 
.and juice of one lemon, the whites of six eggs well beaten; 
whiuc all together for two or three minute^ put it over 



PRAGTICia AKD SCONOMIGAL COOKSBX. lOt 

the fire and boil for twenty minutes, then pass it through 
a jelly-bag till it becomes clear and bright. This will 
be sufficient to fill two moulds. 



CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Press the juice out of two quarts of cranberries, sweeten 
it to your taste, melt two ounces of isinglass in water 
sufficient with the cranberry juice to fill your mould; boil 
and well skim it. When cool put it into your mould. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Pare, core, and boil one dozen and a lialf of apples 
(golden pippins are the best), put to the apples the 
grated rind of one lemon and a pmt and a half of water; 
when quite tender strain them through a sieve. To 
every pmt of juice put one pound of lump sugar and half 
an ounce of isinglass, melted in as small a quantity of the 
juice as you possibly can; boil till it becomes a jelly; put 
it into a mould. The pulp of the apples you can use for 
puddings or tarts, boiled up with some sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

'Choose the largest sort, wash it in cold water three txr 
four times, let it soak for five or nx minutes, then simmer 
in tiie same water, with a piece of lemon-peer chopped 
fine, and a bit of cinnamon. It must simmer till it looks 
dear; tiien add the juice of a lemon, a glaas of wine, and 
sugar to taste. This is a nice jelly for a sick person. 

STRENCJHENINQ JELLY. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in one quart of water, a 
piece of crust of bread toaafced brown, one blade of maoe. 
Simmer for one hour; strain it off. A larse Bpoonfiil.of 
this jelly, made warm^ can be tak^i in a ghss of wine, a 
cup of tea, milk, or any other agreeable drink. 



108 PIIACTJCAL AKD ECOKOinCAL OOOKEBT. 



ANOTHER. 



Simmer ax sheep's trotters in two quarts of water, 
with two blades of mace, a little lemon-peel, and one ounce 
of hartshorn shavings, for two hours; strain it into a 
baan. When cold take all the fat ofi^ and use as wanted. 



ANOTHER. 

Put two calf 8 feet in a jar with five pints of milk, the 
rind of a lemon, and a blade of mace ; tie the jar close 
down with brown paper, bake it for three hours, and strain 
it through a sieve. When cold take off the fat; add 
sugar when you use it. Half a pint of this mucilage may 
be taken ni^ht and morning with advantage where there 
is great debility. 

SAVOURY JELLY FOR COLD MEAT PIES. 

Take one cow-heel, two pounds of gravy beef, a ham 
bone, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, a blade or two 
of mace ; salt and pepper to taste; boil all four hours in 
two quarts of water ; strain it into a pan. When cold 
take off all the fat and sediment at the bottom, put it into 
a stewpan with a spoonful of taragon vinegar, beat the 
whites of five eggs to a froth when the stock is melted 
but not boiled, add the eges, and whisk it well up; set it 
over the fire, when it has boiled a few minutes remove it 
to the side for half an hour, then pass it through a jelly- 
ba^; if not bright, pass it through again. When cold 
this jelly is nice for cold savourv pies, or omamentinc 
cold dishes for supper or breakiast. If you want red 
savoury jelly to ornament any white dish, such as boiled 
fowls, turkey, &c., drop in a uttle prepared cochineal, and 
set in a plate, as then you can cut it out in what form you 
please. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 109 



TO PREPARE COLOURINGS TO STAIN JELUES, CREAMS, 

AND ICES. 

For a red, boil sizpenn^worth of pounded cochineal, a 
piece of roach alum the size of a nut, one pennyworth of 
cream of tartar, four or five lumps of sugar, in a large tea- 
cupful of water. Boil for twenty minutes^ strain t£x)ugh 
a muslin, and bottle for use. 

For white, pound a few Jordan almonds, or use a little 
cream. 

For green, beat a few leaves of spinach in a mortar, and 
take the juice. 

For yellow, raw yolk of egg. Be sure never to use 
any chemical colours, as it is veiy injurious to the health, 
and greatly objected to by many. 

TO STEW PIPPINS WHOLE. 

Pare and core them, throw them into cold water as you 
pare them, take one pound and a q^uarter of lump sugar to 
eveiy pound of apples, dissolve it m a pint of water, boil 
it up, and take off all the scum; then put in the apples, 
let diem stew gently till they are tender, take them out, 
grate the rind of a lemon, and squeeze the juice into the 
syrup; let it boil up for five minutes; strain it through a 
lawn sieve upon the apples. If you please you can boil 
the rind of two or three lemons, scrape the white part out 
clean, and cut them into small threads; boil them up in 
the syrup. When you dish them up, lay the peel on the 
top of uie pippins; in this case you must not strain the 
syrup. 

TO STEW PEARS. 

Take the large stewing pears, pare and halve them, take 
out the core, throw them mto cold water to prevent them 
turning black; when you have pared them all place them 
in a copper stewpan as close as you possibly can, shake in 
as much lump sugar as will make them sweet, put four 



1 10 PRAOTICAL Ainy ECONOMICAL COOKEBY. 

cloves, a bit of lemon-peel, one spoonful of prepared 
ocR^meal; ooverwidi water, stew tul tender, tatte them 
up and lay them in a dish; if the syrup is not sweet 
enough^ add moie sugar, boil it for five minutes longer, 
Birain it over the pears. They will keep fbr some tune 
thifl iWj if put^ into a jar and tied down, by adding a 
^ass >ot bcauay to the syrup. 

flTTEWED PRUNES. 

Stew some prunes iu a little water and Lisbon sugar 
till the stones will slip out of them, then lay them on a 
dish with the syrup. When cold serve them, up with a 
dish of lice boiled m. milk. This makes a nice dish for 
the nurseiy. 

DEIIOM8HIRE JUNKET. 

Put warm milk into a bowl, turn it with a little rennet, 
then put some thick cream over the top ; shake some 
pounoed lump sugar and cinnamon over it. Send it to 
table. 

STAFFORDSHIRE SYLLABUB. 

Put into a bowl a pint of cider or home*made wine, 
one glass of brandy, a little grated nutmeg, and sugar to 
taste; warm two quarts of milk, put it into a teapot, and 
pour it to the wine; hold the pot high, and move about. 
If you have cows it is best to milk the cow into the 
bowl. 

LEMON HONEYCOMB. 

. Sweeten the juice of two lemons to your taste, put it 
into a glass dish, mix the whites of two eggs well beaten 
with a pint of ^ood cream cmd three ounces of pounded 
lump su^ar, whisk it well up, as the froth rises take it o% 
and put it on the lemon juice. Make the day before it 
18 wanted, as it eats more solid. 



F&AOnCAL Aim BCOIIOlflCAL COOKEKT. Ill 



CHANTILLY CAKE. 

Make a cake as follows i Beat five ounces of good butter 
to a cream with jour Hand,, then shake in four ounces of 
pounded lump sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, the whites 
and yolks of four eggs well beaten; mix with the butter 
and sugar, shake in half a pound of flour well dried before 
llie fire^ best all together for half an hour, butter a mould, 
place a piece o£ paper rDUnd ihe aide and bottGOon of the 
mould to psevent it becoming a. dark colour (an oval 
^ain mould is the best); it will take thcee^uarters of an 
nour baking. When cold, cut it round one inch and a 
haTf from tke edge, taking care you do not perforate the 
bottom, spread raspberry jam round the mside of the 
cake, then put in some thick custard, whip up a little 
cream, and lay tiiie firoth on- ihe- cu^aisd; you can orna- 
ment the top edge of your cake with a little jam, or cut 
some small leaves out of the pieces of cake you took out 
of the middle. 

QAnrEAU DE POLETAItik. 

Make the cake as above. When cold rub the outside 
with a clean cloth to get off all the loose crumbs, with a 
knife take out the middle as before, spread some stiff red 
currant jelly round the outdde of the cake, and fill the 
inside with apricot jam, and a little whipped cream on the 
top, and ornament the top edge with a tew small ratafias; 
or you can fill it with whole preserved fruits, such as 
greengages, apricots, pears, <&c.; pile them up as high as 
you can, and variegate the colours. In this case you must 
not put any whipped cream; ornament the edge with fancy 
leaveSi 

ANOTHER. 

Make a round cake with the same mixture, when cold 
cut it in slices half an inch thick, and spread some jam 
on the slices, and put them together again. Tou must 
make the bottom of your cake the top; rub the loose 



1 14 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOEEBT. 

middle of the ice, witli more salt and ice over it, let it lie 
for one hour; when you wish to send it to table dip the 
mould into cold water, remove the top lid first, then the 
bottom, and slip it into the dish. 

TO MAKE A QUART OF ORANGE WATER ICE. 

This must be made with the juice of China oranges, 
and half a pound of lump sugar: you must not put any 
water, as it will cause the ice to eat rough. Freeze as 
above, 

CURRANT, CHERRY, RASPBERRY, 

Or any other water ices, can be made in the same way. 

TO MAKE A QUART OF RASPBERRY CREAM ICE. 

If you cannot get fresh raspberries, take one pound of 
the best raspberry jam, pulp through a fine sieve, with a 
little milk to tase out the seeds, add as much cream as 
will fill the mould, and a little over to allow for freezing; 
if not a fine colour, put in a few drops of prepared cochi- 
neal. Freeze as above. If you make it of raw juice you 
must add sugar to taste. All other fruit cream ices are 
made by pulping the fruit through a sieve and adding 
sugar and cream. If firesh strawberry, pound the sugar 
and pulp the fruit through a sieve, but do not add any 
colouring. 

NESSELRODE OR ICE PUDDING. 

Make a rich custard with a pint and a half of milk, 
eight yolks of eggs well beaten, six ounces of lump sugar, 
boil half a stick of vanilla and a bit of cinnamon in the 
milk with the sugar, pour the milk boiling-hot on the 
eggs, keep stirring, strain through a sieve; when cold add 
hfilf a pint of thick cream, one glass of brandy, a quarter 
of a pound of dried cherries cut in two; put it into a 
freezer and freeze as above; ornament the puddingHtnould 



PBACnCAL AJn> ECOKOMICAL COOKE RT. 115 

with preserved fruit of difierent colours; when the pud- 
ding 18 frozen hard, put it in the mould and pack in ice 
as above; let it stand for one hour; when required for 
table, dip the mould into cold water, turn it out on your 
dish^ and pour two glasses of maraschino or noyeau over 
the pudding. 



i 



PRESERVING. 

OBSEBTATIOKS ON PBESEBYmQ. 

When you preserve any sort of fruit, take care that the 
preserving-pan is quite clean and free from dust; always 
use lump sugar, there is nothing saved in using brown 
sugar, your jam will not keep nor look so good a colour. 
When you make any kind of jelly, take care you do not 
let any of the seeds or skins from the iruit fall into the 
jelly, nor squeeze it too near, for that will prevent the 
jelly from being clear and bright. Pound the sugar, and 
et it dissolve in the syrup before you put it over the fire, 
it causes the scum to rise well, and gives the jelly a better 
colour. Be careful not to boil any kind of jellies too 
high, as it makes them a dark colour. 

TO PRESERVE APRICOTS. 

Take apricots quite ripe, pare them as thin as possible, 
cut them in halves, take out the stones, then weign them; 
to six pounds of apricots take five pounds of pounded 
lump sugar, lay the halves of the apricots on dishes, the 
hollow side upwards, shake some of the susar over them, 
let them lay tw^e hours; in the mean time break the 
stones and blanch the kernels in hot water; when the 
fruit has laid the time, put them into a preserving-pan 
with the juice, sugar, and kernels; let them simmer 

I2 



116 PRlCnCAL AND EGONOMIGAL COOKERY. 

slowly till they look clear, take off the scum as it rises; 
when done take out the halves of the apricots, put them 
into preserving-pots, and pour the juice and kernels over 
them. Tie down with bladder. 



TO PRESERVE APRICOTS WHOLE. 

Let the apricots be full ripe, thrust out the stones with 
a skewer; to three pounds of apricots take three pounds 
and a half of lump sugar, strew part pounded over the 
apricots, and let them lie till next day; make a syrup 
with the remainder of the sugar, and add the juice that 
comes from the apricots, boil and well skim it, then put 
in the apricots and give them a gentle boil for nve 
minutes, let them get cold, next day boil them up again, 
and so do for four different times, let them get cold each 
time; when done, take them up one by one and put them 
into the jar you intend for them, boil the syrup for ten 
minutes, well skim it, pour it on the apricots: when cold, 
tie down with bladder. They make a nice dish for 
dessert. 

RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Get your currants full ripe and quite dry, strip them off 
the stalks, put them into a stone jar, tie paper over them, 
and put the jar into the oven for two or three hours, it 
must not be too hot; when ready, put them into a sieve 
and let them drain; you must not press them, as that 
makes the jelly thick; to every pint of juice add fourteen 
ounces of pounded lump sugar, stir it gently over a slow 
fire, when it comes to a boil skim it well, and let it boil 
for a quarter of an hour, pour it into your pots, and put 
brandy papers over, keep it in a dry place, but not too 
hot. You can make currant jam with the pulp of the 
currants, by putting half a pound of lump sugar to a pound 
of pulp; this jam does for puddings or tarts for family 
use. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 117 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

The raspberries must be fresh picked and quite dry, 
pick them very carefully from the stalks, crush them in a 
preserving-pan; to every pound of fruit add three-quarters 
of a pound of pounded lump sugar, keep stirring all the 
time, take oflf all the scum as it rises, boil for twenty 
minutes, then put them into your preserving-pots. Cover 
them as before. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Pick the raspberries from the stalks, put them into a 
a jar, put them in the oven for two hours ; when done, 
turn them into a sieve to drain. To every pint of juice 
add fourteen ounces of pounded lump sugar, well mix 
it on the fire; before it boils take off all the scum and let 
it boil for twenty minutes; put it into pots or glasses, 
tie down with brandy papers. 

* STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Take scarlet strawberries, if you can get them, they 
must be gathered when dry and ripe; bruise them very 
fine and put them into a preserving-pan; to every pound 
of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar, 
poimded, stir them well to prevent them burning, let 
them boil a quarter of an hour, and take off the scum as 
it rises. When done, pour into your preserving-pots, 
and cover with brandy papers. Any other strawberries 
you can do, but the scarlet makes the finest colour, and 
IS a better flavour. 

BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Get the currants when quite ripe, strip them off the 
stalks, put them into ajar; to every gallon of currants 
put one pint of water, put them into an oven for three 



118 PKACnCAL AKD EOOKOUIGAL OOOKEKT. 

hoars, tlien squeeze them in a doth to get out all the 
juice; to evezy pint of joioe pot a pound of pounded 
lump sugar, stir it gently till all the sugar is melted; when 
it lK>ils take off me scum; boil it for twenty minutes. 
Put it into potSy and put brandy papers over them. 

BLACK CURRANT JAM. 

Get your currants quite ripe, strip them off die staUoB, 
bruise them, put to every two pounds of firuit one pound 
and a half of lump sugar, pounded, stir the £ruit and 
su^ar well together, put them into a preserving-pan, boil 
half an hour, well skim them. When done, put them 
into potSy and put brandy papers over them as before. 

CHERRY JAM. 

Take the ripest duke or Kentish cherries you can get, 
take the stalKS off and stone them; to every pound of 
fruit put half a pound of pounded lump sugar; boil the 
fruit and sugar together till it looks clear. Put them 
into pots, and put brandy papers over them as before. 

TO DRY CHERRIES. 

Stalk and stone them, put the juice that runs from 
them while stoning them into a preserving-pan, with one 
pound of lump sugar, half a teacupful of water, put over * 
the fire and boil up, skim it well, then put in three 
pounds of cherries, stir them in the syrup, simmer till 
they begin to shrivel, strain them from the syrup, then 
place them on tins, put them into a cool oven, that will 
dry them, not bake them: you can dry them in the sun 
if you please. When dry, lay them between papers: 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. 

Take the finest Morella cherries, cut off half the stalk, 
prick them with a needle, drop them into a wide-mouthed 
bottle, pound half a pound of lump sugar or white sugar- 
candy, and put in with the cherries; place the bottle 



PJSACTIGAL Alia> ECOHOMICAL COOEEBT. 119 

into a Bancepan of water on the fire, when the juice 
begins to run, take the bottle out and fill up with best 
biandy : tie a bladder oyer the top. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES WHOLE. 

Take the largest scarlet strawberries, not too ripe, and 
their weight of pounded lump sugar; lay the strawberries 
on a large dish, and shake half the pounded sugar over 
them; next day make a syrup; suppose you do three 
pounds of strawberries, take one pint of red currant juice, 
and boil up with the remainder of the sugar; in this 
simmer the strawberries till they jelly to the side of the 
preserving-pan: take them out carefully, and put them 
into pots or glasses. Tie them down with brandy 
paper. 

TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take the rough red gooseberries, top and tail them, 
put them into a preserving-pan and masn them ; to every 

1)ound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of pounded 
ump sugar; boil them for half an hour, well skim them. 
When done, put into pots, and put brandy papers over 
them. 

TO PRESERVE GREEN GOOSEBERRIES IN IMITATION OF 

HOPS. 

Take some of the green walnut gooseberries, cut them 
&om the stalk end in four quarters, leave them whole at 
the blossom end, take out all the seeds, and put five or 
six one in the other; take a needleful of strong thread 
with a large knot at the end, run the needle and thread 
through the bunch of gooseberries, and place a very small 
one at the top, tie a knot to fasten them together, then 
they will resemble hops. Lay some vine-leaves on the 
bottom and round the sides of your preserving-pan, and 
lay on some gooseberries, then some vine-leaves, then 
more gooseberries, and so on till you use up all your 
gooseberries^ then put plenty of vine-leaves on the top, 



120 PBACTICAL AND ECOKOMIGAL GOOKEBT. 

and fill the pan with water, put a plate on to keep in all 
the steamy place it by the side of the fire till they are 
scalding hot, take them ofi^ and let them stand to get cold, 
then set them at the side of the fire till they turn green, 
take them off, and let them stand till cold, take them out, 
and lay them on a sieve to drain; to two pounds of 
gooseberries, make a syrup with one pound of lump 
sugar, half a pint of water, boil and skim it, when nearly 
cold put in the gooseberries, and let them stand till next 
day, then give tibem one boil up, and so do for three days, 
then add one pound more lump sugar to the syrup, boil it 
well, and take off all the scum, and put in the goose* 
berries, give them one boil; when cold put them into 
glasses or preserving-pots witi brandy papers over them. 

TO PRESERVE CREENQACES WHOLE. 

Take the finest greengages you can get, not too ripe, 
put vine-leaves at the bottom of your preserving-pan, put 
in a layer of greengages, then a layer of vine-leaves, and 
so on till you use up all your fruit, put in water sufficient 
to cover them, and vine-leaves on the top, and a plate to 
keep in the steam, put them by the side of the fire for 
eight or nine hours, then take them up carefully and lay 
them on a hair sieve to drain, make a syrup of one pound 
of lump sugar and half a pint of water, boil it up and put 
in the greengages, and give them a gentle boil, and so do 
for two or three days, then take the fruit out, add one 
pound more sugar to the syrup, boil it for twenty 
minutes, and well skim it, put in the greengages, give 
them one boil up, let them stand to get cold, and put 
them into your preserving-pots; cover with brandy 
papers. 

TO PRESERVE MACNUM BONUM PLUMS. 

Take the largest yellow plums, put them in a preserving- 
pan, and fill it with water, set it over the fire, keeping 
them under water with the back of ^ wooden spoon till 
you find the skin will come off; you must not let them 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 121 

boil; take them up and peel the skin off with a penknife, 
put them in a thin syrup and boil them up, take them off 
the fire, and turn them very often to prevent them 

fetting a bad colour, when nearly cold put them on the 
re again, and let them boil for five or six minutes, turn 
them often in the syrup, or they will turn brown; when 
coldj 
dishes 

to- - „--, „ . ^ -. ' 

and skim it well, put in the plums and boil them till they 
look clear, put them into jars and pour the syrup over 
them; let uiem have plenty of syrup or they will lose 
their colour; tie bladder over them. 

TO MAKE ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take the clearest Seville oranges you can get, cut 
them in quarters, take out all the pulp, pick out all the 
seeds and skins, throw the rinds into salt water, let them 
lay for two days; then boil them, change the water three 
times while* boiling to take out the bitterness, when 
tender, take them up and cut them in thin strips; to three 
pounds of peel add four pounds of lump sugar, wet the 
sugar with half a pint of water, add the juice and pulp, 
boil for ten minutes, well skim it, then put in the peel, 
boil for twenty minutes longer; you must keep stirring 
all the time, as it is apt to bum; when done put it into 
your preserving-pots, and cover as before. 

TO PRESERVE ORANGES CARVED. 

Take the largest and finest Seville oranges you can get, 
cut the rind witn a penknife in any form you please, draw 
out the piece of peel as you cut them, cut a small hole the 
size of a sixpence at the stalk end, take care of the piece, 
take out all the pulp; you must be very careful not to 
break the orange; throw them into salt-water and keep 
them in for two days, change the water each day, then 
boil them in a good quantity of water to take out all the 



122 PRA^CnCAL ASD ECONOMICAL COOKEET. 

bitterness, when tender take them tip and lay them on a 
cloth to drain, pick the seeds and skin from the pulp of 
the orange, and put it into the cases of the oranges again 
with some pounded lump sugar, then put on the piece of 
rind you cut out, and tie them with packthread; then 
make a thin syrup of one pound of sugar to a pint of 
water, boil and skmi it well, llien put in the oranges, and 
let them lie all night; in l^e morning, boil them gently 
for five minutes, then let them get cold, and boil them up 
again for five minutes, so do for four days, take them out 
and lay them on a dish, melt one pound and a half more 
sugar in the syrup, and boil it up thick, put in the 
oranges, give them one boil, then put them into small 
jars, that will just hold one orange, keeping the hole side 
upwards, and pour the syrc^ over them ; this quantity of 
sugar is sufficient for six oranges; you can preserve 
lemons or China oranges the same way. 

TO MAKE QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Get the quinces when they are full ri{)e, cut them into 
quarters, take out the cores, put them into a preserving 
pan, cover them with their parings, fill the pan with water, 
place a plate on the top to keep in the steam, let them 
stew over a slow fire till quite tender and they look of a 
pale pink colour, strain the water from them, and pick 
out all the parings, beat the quince in a marble or stone 
mortar to a pulp; to a pound of quince add one pound of 
lump sugar, melt the sugar with a little of the water the 
quinces were boiled in, boil it up and well skim it, put in 
the quince and boil gently for half an hour, keep stirring 
all the time, or it will bum; put it into flat pots ; cover 
with brandy papers. 

TO PRESERVE QUINCES WHOLE. 

Pare quinces very thin, put them into your preserving 
pan, with the parings on tnem, and a plate to keep the 
steam in, fill it with water, and set it over the fire, when 
they are soft and a fine pink colour; to three pounds of 



PRACTICAL Aim ECONOMICAL COOKERY. • 123 

quinces take four pounds of lump sugar, make a thin 
syrup with a pound and a half of sugar, with one pint of 
water that the quinces were boiled in, boil well up and 
take ofifthe scum, then put in the quinces and let them 
boil for ten minutes, take them off the fire and let them 
get cold; next day boil them till they look clear, then 
take them up, and lay them on a dish, add the remainder 
of the sugar to the sjrrup and boil till it becomes thick, 
put in the quinces and give them one boil up, if they 
look a fine colour and clear, put them into deep jars, and 
tie them down with bladder; you can core them with an 
apple scoop if you please, or cut them in half. I think 
they look better whole with the stalks on. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Peel and core three pounds of apples, boil them with 
half a teacupful of water at the bottom of your preserving- 
pan over a slow fire, grate the rind of one lemon, put it 
with the juice to the apples, and put on the lid to keep in 
the steam; when soft beat them tnrough a wire sieve, put 
two pounds and a half of pounded lump sugar to the pulp, 
and boil it half an hour till it looks clear and thick; you 
must keep stirring it all the time, as it is apt to bum; 
when done put it into your pots for use. 

TO MAKE DAMSOM CHEESE. 

Put damsons when full ripe into a jar, put them in a 
slow oven for three hours, then pulp them through a 
sieve and put the pulp into a preserving-pan, set it over 
the fire and let it boil quick, till the juice begins to 
shrink; to every quart of pulp put one pound of pounded 
lump sugar, and boil for one hour longer; keep stirring 
all me time. You may know when it is done by its 
candying at the sides of the preserving-pan. When done 
put it into small pie dishes; if wantedf for table, put it 
into small earthenware moulds, put brandy paper over, 
and keep in a dry place. BuUace cheese is made in the 
same way. 



124 • PBACnCAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



TO PRESERVE PINE-APPLE. 

Take pine-apples and cut off the rind with a sharp 
knife, ,cut them in slices half an inch thick; to every 
pound of pine-apple take one pound of pounded lump 
sugar, lay the shoes of pine-apple on a dish and strew 
some of the sugar over them; let them lie all night; take 
the juice that runs from them, put it into a preserving-pan 
with the remainder of your sugar, boil and well skim it, 
put in the slices of pine-apple, boil for five minutes, let 
them get cold, set them over the fire again and let them 
boil twenty minutes, till they look clear and bright, then 
put them into your preserving-pots and pour the syrup 
over them. Tie down with brandy papers. 

TO MAKE A COMPOTE OF APPLE. 

Pare and cut them in halves, core and put them* into 
cold water as you do them, have a preserving-pan on the 
fire with a syrup in it made with one pound of sugar to 
half a pint of water, then put in the apples and stew them 
very gently; when done let them cool in the syrup, then 
take them up; if the syrup is not thick enough add a 
little more sugar and boil it for twenty minutes longer, 
pour it over the apples; keep them for use, they make a 
pretty dish for dessert. You can make a compote of 
peaches, apricots, &c., in the same way by taking their 
equal weights of sugar. 

TO BOTTLE FRUIT FOR WINTER USE. 

Currants, raspberries, gooseberries, plums, cherries, 
damsons, greengages, and rhubarb. Wnen the fruit is 
quite ripe put it intp wide-mouthed bottles as full as you 
possibly can, place the bottles in a large kettle, fill the 
kettle with water; you must put a little hay between the 
bottles to prevent them touaiing each other, place the 
kettle over a slow fire; when they boil up and you see 
the fruit shrink take the bottles out of the watei^, have 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEEY. 125 

ready boiled some spring water, one gallon of water to 
one ounce and a half of roach alum. When cold, fill up 
the bottles with it, let the water be two inches above the 
fruit, then cork them up and well resin them ; put them 
by for use. You can put six ounces of pounded lump 
sugar to each bottle, and no water if you please; cork and 
resm as before. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Put three ounces of roach alum in two gallons of water, 
let it boil, put the fruit you wish to bottle in a new hair- 
sieve, and hold the sieve with the fruit in the water as it 
boils till you think the fruit is warm through, but not to 
break; take them out and put them into wide-mouthed 
bottles, and so do till you have done all the fruit you in- 
tend to do. Put the water into an earthenware pan. 
When cold, fill up the bottles with it, put in the corks, 
and resin them down. If any of the fruit breaks^ you 
must not put them into the bottles. 

TO MAKE RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put a quart of raspberries in a china bowl, and pour 
over them one quart of the best white wine vinegar; next 
day strain the liquor over another quart of raspberries; on 
the third day do the same; on the fourth day put them 
into a sieve and let them drain, but do not squeeze them. 
Put to every pint of juice three quarters of a pound of 
lump sugar, put it in a stone jar and well mix it, put the 
jar m a saucepan of water, place it over a fire, let it 
simmer well, and skim it. Take it off the fire; when 
cold bottle it. 

TO MAKE LEMONADE. 

Take two dozen of lemons, peel eight or ten as thin as 
you possibly can, put the peel in a jar and pour two 
quarts of boiling water over it, cover down close for two 
or three hours, put two pounds of lump sugar in a bowl. 



126 PRACTICAL AND ECOKOMICAL COOKERY. 

squeeze the juice on the sugar, boil one gallon of milk, 
and pour it on the sugar and lemon; keep stirring all the 
time, then add the water and peel; pass it through a jelly- 
bag till it looks clear. It is best made the day before it is 
wanted for use. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Take one dozen of lemons, peel six as thin as possible, 
put two quarts of water boiling hot over the peel, squeeze 
the juice to one pound and a half of lump sugar, add one 
quart of cold water, beat the white of one egg and put it 
in; boil and take off all the scum, then add the water and 
peel, wet a clean jelly-bag and pass it through; if not 
clear, pass it through again. 

TO MAKE IMPERIAL WATER, 

Put half a pound of lump sugar in a jug, peel the rind 
of three lemons, put them m the jug, add the juice, boil 
one ounce of cream of tartar in three quarts of water, and 
pour it over the lemon and sugar; let it stand all night, 
then pass it through a jelly-bag. When done bottle 
it up. 

ORANGEADE. 

Take one Seville orange, one dozen of China oranges, 
and one pound of lump sugar, rub a few liunps of sugar 
on the Seville orange to take out all the essence, and 
squeeze the juice of tne China oranges through a sieve on 
the sugar, add five pints of cold water, bou all together 
for five nunutes; .take off all the scum, and pass through 
a jelly-bag as before. 

CHERRYADE. 

Take six pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, bruise 
them in a mortar, taking care to break the stones, as that 
gives the flavour, put Siem over the fire with one quart 
of water, let them boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an 
hour, strain through a sieve, but do not squeeze them. 



PBACTIGAL Ain> EOOKOIOCAL COOKERY. 127 

then put the pulp back into the saucepan with two quarts 
more water, let them boil for ten mmutes, and strain to 
the other juice; add one pound and a half of lump sugar, 
boil it up well, take off the scum as it rises, pass it 
through a jelly-bag; if not a fine colour add two or three 
drops of prepared cochineal. 

TO MAKE ORGEAT. 

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and two ounces 
of bitter, beat them in a marble mortar as fine as you can, 
with some orange-flower water, to prevent them fi:om 
oiling; add one quart of water to the almonds, and pass 
them through a sieve; add two pounds of lump sugar, 
boil it to a syrup, skim it well; when cold bottle it up 
and well cork it; add milk as you use it. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

9 

Boil two quarts of milk with a stick of cinnamon, let it 
stand to cool, blanch six ounces of sweet and one ounce of 
bitter almonds, pound them together in a marble mortar, 
add a little rose-water to prevent them oiling, when 
pounded quite fine, mix them with the milk, and sweeten 
It to your taste, give it one boil up, pass it through a 
sieve; let it be quite fi:ee from the almonds. All these 
refireshments are nice for the table in a refreshment room 
at an evening party. 



128 PRACTICAL AND ECOKOMICAL COOKEBY. 



PART YIL 



CAKES, BREAD, &c. 

OBSERVATIONS UPON CAKES. 

When you make any kind of cakes, be sure that you 
have all the things ready before you begin; beat your 
eggs well, and do not leave them till you have finished 
the cakes, or they will go back again, and your cakes will 
not be light; if your cakes are to have butter in, take care 
you beat it to a fine cream before you put in your sugar, 
for if you beat it twice the time it will not answer so 
well; plum seed, or rice cakes, are best baked in hoops, 
for if you bake them in tins they bum the outside of the 
cakes, and confine them so that the heat cannot penetrate 
into the middle of the cake, and prevents it from rising. 
Bake all kinds of cakes in a good oven, according to the 
size of your cake, and follow the directions of your receipt, 
for though care may be taken to weigh and measure 
every article belonging to every kind of cake, yet the 
management and the oven must be left to the maker's 
care. 

BRIDE CAKE. 

Take two pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, one 

Sound and a half of pounded lump sugar, wash, pick, and 
ry two pounds of currants, set them before the fire, 
blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, split them, stone 
and chop one pound of raisins, one pound of mixed peel 
cut, two nutmegs grated, a little cinnamon pounded, one 
glass of orange-flower water, one of brandy, the grated 
rind of one lemon, and sixteen eggs; first work the butter 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 129 

to a cream with your hands^ then beat in the sugar, beat 
ihe whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, and mix them 
with the sugar and butter, beat the yolks for half an hour 
at least, mix them with the sugar, butter^ and whites^ then 

Imt in the flour, grated nutmeg, cinnamon, and the grated 
emon-peel, keep beating it all the time; when the oven 
is ready, then put in the orange-flower water, currants, 
raisins, brandy, almonds, and candy-peel, keep beating all 
the time ; tie two sheets of buttered paper round the 
hoop, to prevent it running out; put in the mixture, and 
bake in a good soaking oven; it will take three hours 
baking; put a double paper over the top to prevent it 
getting too brown. 



TO MAKE ALMOND ICING FOR BRIDE CAKE. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong froth, blanch 
one pound of Jordan almonds, pound them in a marble 
mortar very fine, with a little orange-flower water to pre- 
vent them oiling, mix the almonds with the eggs lightly 
together, add one pound of sifted pounded lump sugar by 
degrees to the almonds and eggs; when the bride cake is 
done, take it out of the oven, and lay the icing on with a 
broad knife, and set it in the oven again, but do not let 
it get too brown. 

TO MAKE SUGAR ICING FOR BRIDE CAKE. 

Take one pound of double-refined sugar, pounded and 
dfted through a lawn sieve, beat the whites of two eggs 
with a knife on a large plate to a strong froth, then beat 
in your sugar, a little at a time, as it is apt to make the 
egg fall ; when you have beaten in all the sugar, and the 
juice of half a lemon, beat it half an hour longer, then lay 
it on the almond icing; spread it evenly with a broad 
knife ; if it is put on as soon as the cake comes out of the 
oven, it will be hard by the time the cake gets cold. 



ISO PRiLCnCAL Ain> SGOKOMICAL COOCEfiT. 



TO MAKE POUND CAKE. 

Take cme pound of flour, one pound of buttei^ <»» 
pound of pounded lump sugar, one pound of QggSf whiok 
18 eight, the rind of a lemon grated, one table^onful^al 
orange-flower water; first beat the butter to a cream in a 
paiu then put in the sugar and lemon-peel, beat the €^gg8 
well for ten minutes^ and put th^n to the sugar and 
butter, and by de^ees shake in the flour, beat it half an 
hour; butter a cake tin, put a piece of paper on iha 
bottom and sides, put in the cake; one hour and a quarter 
will bake it. If you wish for a currant pound cake, add 
one pound of currants, washed, picked, and dried in the 
oven; shake them in the last thing before putting the 
cake in Cbe oten* 

TO MAKE A PLAIN CAKE. 

Take two pounds of flour, half a pound of good drip- 
ping, half a pound of sugar, warm a pint of milk, nmc 
three-q[uarters of an ounce of German yetat in it, beat up 
two eggs, and put them to the yeast and tnilk; ha:^ 
ready one pound of currants, washed and picked, put 
them before the fire to dry, rub the diippinff m the floor, 
put in the sugar, one nutmeg grated, ana a little pouttded 
cinnamon; mix all together with the milk, yeast, and egg, 
set it before the fire to rise, then work it up well, and put 
in the ctirrants; butter a cake l3n, and put m the cake; it 
will take two hours baking. If the milk is not sufficient 
add more. 

TO MAKE A niCH SEED :CAK£. 

Take one pound of flour well dried, one poond of 
butter, one pound of lump sugar pounded, ejght e^, two 
ounces of caraway seeds, one nutmeg grated; put the 
butter into a pan and beat it to a cream with your haady 
put in the sugar, then the eggs beaten separately, mix 
them with the sugar and butter, beat for half an hour, 



FSACTICAL A3n» BCGNOKfCAL <SOO(KSanr. 131 

AiCB. flhake in the floor, spic^ and seeds, kaep beaiang^ 
batter two sheets of paper, and tie round a iwoii. If yon 
have not got a hoop, put a double paper roimd your tin 
to prevent the cake burning; it will take one hour and a 
half baking. 

SODACAKC 

TaJDQ half a pound of good dripping, half a pound of 
sugar pounded, half a pound of currants, washed, picked^ 
anddned, quarter of a pound of candy-peel cut tmn, one 
nutmeg grated, one pound and a half of flour; rub the 
ddpping in the flour, and put in the currants, sugar, 
candy-peel, and nutmegs one spoonful of carbonate of 
soda, beat up three eggs, and mix with as much milk as 
will make it in a light dough; the milk must be cold; 
grease your cake tin and "poi it in the oven; the quicker 
the better. It will take two hours baking. 



TO MAKE A SAVOY CAKE. 

Beat eight eggs lialf an liour, have ready one pound of 
lamp sugar pounded and eifted, shake it into the eggs, 
keep beating, put in a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds 
l}iat have been beaten in a mortar with a spoonful of 
rose water, grate the rind of a lemon, put it to the 
almonds, e^gs, and sugar; it will take one hour beating; 
shake in three-quarters of a pound of flour well dried, 
well batter a mould, and dust it all over with sugar tied 
op in a piece of gauze. One hour will bake it in a 
moderate oven. 

TO MAKE MACAROONS. 

Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, pound thon in a 
mortar with a little rose water, to keep toem from oiling, 
mix with them one pound and a quarter of pounded 
lamp sugar, beat the whites of six egcs to a firoth, put 
them to ihe almonds and sugar, beat all together for ten 
minutes, drop them on wafer paper in an oval shape, 

k2 



132 PBACTICAL Ain> ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 

shake a little pounded lump sugar over them in a muslin^ 

!>lace the paper on a tin and bake them; be sure not to 
et ihem bum. 

TO MAKE A RICE CAKE. 

Place a large stewpan of water over the fire, beat half a 
pound of butter to a cream in a bowl, place the bowl in 
the water and break in six eggs^ whisk them up for ten 
minutes till they are very light, mix in by d^ees half a 
pound of ^ound rice, seven ounces of pounded lump 
sugar, beat it well, grate the rind of a lemon, and put it 
in with a few drops of ratafia ; butter your cake tin. 
Bake half an hour in a good oven. 



ANOTHER WAY. 

Take half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of 
flour, half a pound of pounded lump sugar, six ounces of 
butter, half a pound of currants, well washed, picked, and 
dried, a dessert spoonfiil of baHng powder, well beat up 
two eggs, with a little cold milk, grate a little nutmeg; 
mix sSi together as quick as possible; butter a tin, put a 
paper at the bottom and sides. Bake one hour and a 
quarter. 

TO MAKE RATAnAS. 

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and a quarter of 
a pound of bitter, beat them in a mortar with a little 
orange-flower water, beat them as fine- as you possibly 
can, beat the whites of two eggs to a strong froth, shake 
in lightly one pound of pounded lump sugar, sift through 
a gauze sieve, beat the almonds, sugar, and egg all toge- 
ther for ten minutes, drop them in little drops the size of 
a nutmeg on buttered writing-paper, place the paper on 
a sheet of tin, and dust a little sugar over them before 
you put them in the oven, which must be a slack one. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 133 



SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

Take a quarter of a pound of butter, beat it to a creanii 
put in a quarter of a pound of lump sugar pounded^ quarter 
of a pound of flour, and one egg, half an ounce of cara* 
way seeds, and a little pounded cinnamon; mix all into a 
paste; add a little more flour if not stiff enough, roll it 
out thin, cut them with a round tin cutter, prick them all 
over, and bake on a sheet of tin. 

QUEEN CAKES. 

Take half a pound of sugar pounded and sifted, half a 
pound of flour, half a pound of butter, four eggs, quarter 
of a pound of currants, well washed, picked, and dried, half 
a nutmeg grated, a little orange-flower water, as much 
pounded cinnamon as wiU lay on a sixpence; work the 
butter to a cream, then put in the sugar, eggs, spice, and 
orange-flower water, beat it for half an hour; put in the 
flour and currants, and beat for five minutes longer; 
bake them in little deep tins the shape of a heart, well 
butter them, half All them, dust a little sugar over them. 

TO MAKE BATH BUNS OR CAKES. 

Beat half a pound of butter in a pound of flour, quar- 
ter of a pound of lump sugar pounded, a little grated nutr 
meg and pounded cinnamon, one ounce of German yeast 
dissolved in a little warm milk; make it into a light 
paste, set it by the fire to rise; when you make them up 
take four ounces of caraway comfits, work part of them 
m, and strew the rest on the top; make them the size of 
a French roll, place them on a sheet of tin to bake, let 
them be two inches apart; set the tin on the top of your 
oven or hot plate for twenty minutes to prove them; 
bake them in a quick oven. They are good not or cold. 



134 F&MJTSCJLL ASB EGQSOMIGAL COaKSBJ. 



TO MAKE DROP BISCUITS. 

Beat the yolks and whites of five eggs, separately, for a 
quarter of an hour, with a spoonful of rose water, put in 
nve oonees of pounded lump sugar, one ounce of caani" 
way seeds, crushed a little, whisk all w^ up together, 
ana drop them on wafer paper; dust a Httle si^ar over 
them; bake in a moderate oren. 

TO MAKE BREAD DOUGH CAKE. 

Take a quartern of dough, work one pound of dripping 
^ell in, one pound of Lisbon sugar, one pound oi cur- 
xants^ well waahed, picked, and dried, a little mixed 
apioe, quarter of a pound of candy-peel cut fine, mix two 
taJ^lespoonfuls of treacle in half a pint of warm milk, 
work it all together till you see it is thoroughly mixed^ 
then put it into a buttered cake tin; set it before the fire 
£» half an hour to rise, then bake it two houxs« 

TO MAKE ROUT CAKES. 

Take half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of 
butter, quarter ofa pound of lump sugar pounded, one taWe- 
spoonful of orange-flower water, mix all together with 
one egg inta s staff paste; if not wet encmgh add another 
yolk of egg, and well work it again on your slab; make 
them in Xt form you please, and omament to iimcy; 
cut bits of angenca and stick in some; some ornament 
with coloured sugars, some with caraway comfits, and 
some with dried (merries ; place them on a sheet ol tm. 
A short time wiU bake them. 

TO MAKE BISCUITS TO EAT WITH CHEESE. 

Take m pound of floui^ melt three ouBcea of battel in 
ndlk, sufficient to make it into a stiff p«8te| beat it witha 
rdUiiigwpiii lor tumoM time^ and workit fexj amooth^ zoU 



^lUCriCAL Aim ECOltrOHICAL COOKEBT. 1Z6 

it out verjr thin^ and^eiub tliem with a cnttar; lajthem on 
aahflet of tm and pack tbem all orer. Eigat ox mne 
mmnlea will bake the nu 

ANOTHER SORT. 

Take the yolks of two eggs well beaten, as much milk 
M will make a pound of flour into a stiff paste, beat it 
with a zolling-pi% and work it quite smooui, roll it oat 
ireiy thin, out it into biscuits, pnck them all over; bake 
in a alow oTen till quite ciisp. They must not be too 
higli a colour* 

YORKSHIRE CAKES. 

Take two pounds of flour» melt half a pound of butter 
in a pint of milk, dissolve half an ounce of ^od German 
jeast in a small quantity of warm milk, stram it through 
a sieve to the butter and milk, beat two eggs up well, 
mix all together, and put more milk if required to make 
it into a nice U^t dough; set it by the fire to rise, 
then work it weU, and make it into oakee; put them on 
tins; let them lise before they go into tibe oven in a 
warm place &r half an hour, which must be a very sk^w 

TO MAKE CINNAMON CAKES. 

Whisk together three eggs with a spoonful of rose 
water, half a pound of lump sugar pounded, a large tea*' 
spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and flour sufficient to make 
it into a paste, then roll it ouL and cut it with a tin 
cutter into small cakes. Bake tnem on paper; put the 
jpapex on a sheet of tin. 

TO MAKE JUMBtXa. 

Take half a pound of lun^ sugar pouadedf wix it wkb 
half a pound of dried flottr» grate ua rind of a levK^ 
beat up two egg^i witk a tabwpoonfiil of oranga-flpvoi 



136 PBACnCAL AKD ECONOHICAL COOKERY. 

water, mix with the flour and sugar into a stiff paste; if 
not enough to wet it add a little milk; roll it up, and cut 
it in what shape you please. Bake them on sheets of tin; 
when they begin to colour round the edges they are done 
enough. 

TO MAKE GINGERBREAD. 

* 

Take one pound of flour, three-quarters of an ounce of 
caraway seeds, half an ounce of pounded ginger, two 
oimces of candy-peel cut very smali, and five ounces of 
butter or good dnpping; work the dripping into the flour 
and spice, with two ounces of brown sugar; mix all to- 
gether with as much treacle as wiU make it into a paste; 
well work it on the slab or board, then put it to rise in a 
warm place. Bake it in a tin dish well greased, or roll it 
out thm, and cut it out with a small tin cutter; bake 
them on a sheet of tin; lay a piece of citron or blanched 
almond on the top. They will not take long baking. 

TO MAKE GINGER NUTS. 

Melt five ounces of butter, mix it with one pound of 
treacle, add one ounce of pounded ginger, two ounces of 
candy-peel cut very small, one ounce of coriander seeds 
pounded, and the same of caraway seeds whole; mix with 
two eggs well beaten, and as much flour as will bring it 
to a fine paste; make it up in small nuts the size of a 
shilling; bake them on sheets of tin. They will keep a 
long time in a tin canister. 

TO MAKE RUSKS. 

Beat three eggs well, and mix with half a pint of warm 
milk three ounces of butter, add to it one ounce of Ger- 
man yeast dissolved in half a pint more milk, strain 
through a sieve, add three ounces of pounded lump sugar, 
work in by degrees as much flour as will make it into a 
light paste, set it before the fire to rise for one hour, then 
add a little more flour, and work it weU on the slab; it 
must not be over stiff. Make them in small dots the siase of 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERT. 137 

a crown piece; bake them on tins; set them befoie the 
fire for ten minutes before putting them into the oven; 
when baked and cold cut them in two, and place them in 
the oven again to brown the side that is cut. 

TO MAKE QUEEN'S DROPS. 

Take half a pound of lump su^r pounded very fine^ 
three-quarters of a pound of nour^ naif a poimd of butter, 
four eggs, quarter of a pound of currants, washed, picked, 
and dried, a little nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon; work the 
butter to a cream, put in the sugar and eggs, keep beat- 
ing all the time, then put in the flour, spice, and currants; 
beat all together for half an hour, drop them on a well- 
floured tin, bake them. They must not be too high a 
colour. 

TO MAKE BUNS. 

Mix two pounds of flour with half a pound of pounded 
lump sugar, quarter of an ounce of ^ound allspice, the 
same of cinnamon and mace, melt half a pound of butter 
in half a pint of milk, dissolve one ounce of German yeast 
in a little more warm milk, mix all together in a very 
light paste; then put it before the fire to rise, make it into 
round rolls, and put them on well-floured sheets of tin, 
and let them rise. Tou must not put them too close on 
the tins, as they will spread; cross them as they go into 
the oven, and brush them over with milk and sugar. 

TO MAKE TEA CRUMPETS. 

Beat two eggs well, put to them a quart of warm milk 
and water, and a large spoonful of yeast, beat in as much 
flour as will make them into a batter, rather thicker than 
a common batter pudding, then make your stove very 
hot, and rub it with a little butter, and wipe it ofi* clean 
with a cloth; pour a large spoonful of batter on the stove; 
when done one side turn with a knife. Tou can have 
round tins made for this purpose. 



138 P&ACnCAL AND ECONOMIGAL COQKEBT. 



TO MAKE MUITINS. 

Take one poimd of flour, one egg, two ounces of bnttet 
melted in half a pint of milk, two spoonfuls of good yeast; 
beat it thorougUgr to^tkar; if not enough milk add more; 
make it into a veiy %ht paste^ set it before the fire to 
rise for two hours, then make them in small flat cakes, 
bake them on a hot stove; when done one side turn them 
on the other. 

TO MAKE MItK BREAD AND ROLLS. 

Take two pouada of flour, rub into it three ounces of 
butt^y one ounce of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt^ du^ 
solve one ounce of German yeast in a little warm milk^ 
beat up two eggs and put to the yeast and milk; if not 
sufficient add a little more milk ; work it well for a few 
minutes, and dear it well from the pan, and shake a little 
flour over it; let it lie for one hour and a half in a warm 
place to rise, then throw some flour on the board or slab) 
work it up well, make the rolls the size of an egg, put 
them on a floured tin to bake, place them in a warm 
place for half an hour to rise; before going into the oven 
brush them over with egg ; twenty minutes will bake 
them, in a sharp oven. You can make a loaf of some of 
the dough if you please; an oval tin is the best for use. 

TO MAKE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST. 

Take one pound of flour, rub in four ounces of butter, 
one ounce oipounded lump sugar, beat up two eggs, dis- 
solve one ounce of German yeast in half a pint of warm 
milk, mix all together, with more warm milk if required; 
let it lav ihree or four hours in a warm plaoe to rise, then 
make them into cakes and put them on tins to bake^ 
stand them in a warm place to rise for half an hour, 
pziok them with a clean fork; before they go into the 



FSACnCiL AKD SCONOHIGAL GCX)E£BT. 138 

oven wash them over with sugar and milk. The sponge 
can be made the last thing overnight, and left in the 
warm room. 

TO MAKE BREAD. 

Take a peck of flour, put it into a pan or trough, shake 
in one spoonful of salt, dissolve three ounces of German 
jeast in a quart of warm water^ make a hole in the 
middle of the flour, and stir in the water and y ea8t| weU 
stir up, like a thick batter, throw a handful of flour over 
it, put it in a warm place to rise, cover a doth over it; 
it will be ready in about one hour and a quarter, when it 
will have risen and burst through the coat of flour; ihea 
add more warm water, and work it into a stiff dough, 
knead it well, let it lay one hour longer, covered up 
warm, then turn it out on your board, work it wdl, ana 
make it into Ave or six loaves; they will take one hour 
and a half baking in a good oven. You must get them 
into the oven as quick as possible, as they are apt to run 
out of shape. 

TO MAKE RICE BREAD. 

Have ready boiied one pouad of rice flour in milk to 
a pulp, take a peck of flour and set it as above, let the 
rice get nearly cold, mix it with the flour and yeast brfore 
vou Knead it up; be sure that the water is not too hot; 
kft it lay one hour and a half in a warm place to rise^ 
with a cloth covered over it; then knead it up, and make 
mio loaves. They will take one hour and a naif baking. 
This quantity makes six good-sized loaves. 



140 PRACnCAL Ain> ECONOMICAL COOKSKT. 



PICKLES. 



TO PICKLE GHERKIN8. 



Take the smallest gherkins you can get; let them be 
fresh and free from spots, put them into strong salt and 
water for three days; take them out and dry them with a 
cloth; lay some vine-leaves on the bottom and round the 
sides of your preserving-pan; place in the gherkins, slice 
some ginger, mace, and peppercorns, cover the gherkins 
with more vine-leaves, put a plate on the top to keep in 
the steam, fill the pan up with vinegar, set it by the side 
of the fire, do not let them get too hot; you will see 
them become yellow, keep them at the side of the fire till 
they turn green; be siu'e they do not boil, or that will 
maKe them soft ; they will take some time doing. When 
a fine colour put them into jars. If not enough vinegar, 
boil some more up and pour over them. Tie down with 
bladder. 

TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS IN SUCES. 

Take larjge green cucumbers before the seeds ^et ripe, 
cut them m slices three-quarters of an inch thick, my 
them on sieves, and shake salt between every layer; let 
them lay for four-and-twenty hours; place vine-leaves at 
the bottom and sides of your preservmg-pan, put in tha 
cucumbers with spice as before; put more vine-leaves on 
the top, fill with vinegar, place a plate on the top to keep 
in the steam, set them at the side of the fire, and green 
as above. Onions can be sliced and done with them if 
approved of. There is no need to put them in the pre- 
serving-pan. only pour boiling hot vinegar over them. 
Mix witn tne cucumber. Put in jars and tie down with 
bladder. 



PBAGTICAL AND ECONOMICAL GOOKEBT. 141 



TO PICKLE MANGOES. 

Take the short thick cucumbers before they get too 
yellow, cut a small square piece out of the dde^ and take 
out all the seeds — a marrow-spoon is best for this purpose 
—put them and the bits you cut out into strong salt and 
water for three days, then lay them on a cloth to dry; line 
your preserving-pan with vine-leaves, and put m the 
cucumbers with the bits; put some sliced ginger with the 
cucumbers, and fill the pan with vinegar, cover a plate 
over the top to keep in tne steam, set it by the side of the 
fire till they become green; you must be very careful 
they do not boil. When a good colour take them out of 
the vinegar and let them get cold; pour the vinegar into 
the jar till wanted. Fill the cucumbers with the follow- 
ing: scrape a stick of horseradish very small, some 
mustard-seeds, four or five heads of garlic chopped small, 
the same of shalot, a little cayenne; when the cucumbers 
are filled place on the piece you cut out, tie a packthread 
round to keep it in its place, and put the cucumbers in a 
jar; boil up the vinegar; to every quart put a quarter of 
an ounce of mace, the same of cloves, half an ounce of 
lon^ peppers, one ounce of mustard-seed tied up in a bag, 
and one ounce of garlic cut in slices. Boil all for five 
minutes, and pour over the mangoes. Tie down with 
bladder. 

TO PICKLE FRENCH BEANS. 

Get the beans very young and small, put them into 
strong salt and water for two days; dry them on a cloth, 
put vme-leaves at the bottom and round the sides of your 
preserving-pan, put in the beans, some sliced ginger^ 
black peppers, and mace; put more vine-leaves on the top, 
fill the pan with vinegar, lay a plate on the top to keep 
in the steam, set them by the side of the fire for three or 
four hours. When you see them turn green take them 
away and put into jars. Tie down with bladder. 



149 FBACnCAL AHD BOOBOMICAL OOOKKKT. 



TO PI6KU WMJNVra. 

Gel your wafanitB hehre the shdl is fiooned, irluch you 
may know by nmniiig a needle iofeo tiiem, put fkem wio 
sfaroi^ salt and ivater for nine days; sdr themabont eveiy 
&rf and diSBge tihe water e^er^ three days; put them into 
a hair neve to drain^ ytipe them dty^ and pot them into 
jon ; bcnl up Tinegar with some sliced ging^ long p^ 
peis, and aoreSy and pot it to the wamuts bailing hot^ 
next day boil the Tin^ar again, and pot it to Aam boil- 
ing hot. So do for three or four days. 

TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. 

Get the finest and closest red cabbage yon can find, cut 
it very thin, throw a handful of salt amongst it, and lay 
it on sieves to drain for two days, put it into jars^ boil 
up vinegar, some sliced ginger, allspice, and black pepper- 
corns, pour it boiling hot on the cabbage. A little 
poundea cochineal boiled with the vinegar is an improve- 
ment to the colour of the cabbage. 

TO PICKLE ONIONS. 

Take small white onions, put them into a pan, poor 
boiling water on them, take off the two first skins, throw 
them into cold salt and water, cover them down dose, 
and let them stand till next day, then lay them on a cloth 
to dry, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, or jars, boil 
up some white wine vinegar, some mace, ginger, and 
wnite peppercorns, let it get half cold so lliat it will not 
break me bottles, put it to the onions wil^ the Sfnce, and 
tie down for use. The onions will not be white eacoept 
you use the white vinegar, which is proper for all white 
pickles. 

TO PICKLE CAUUFLOWER8. 

Take liie whitest and elosest cauliflowers you can get^ 
pull them apart in bunches, put them into a sieve and 



PBACnCAL AND SCONOMICil. COOKERY. 143 

sprinkle salt over them, let them stand two or three days, 
to bring out all the ivater^ put them into a jar, and boil 
some water with a pece of alum the size of a hazel-nut; 
tiiis is sufficient for two quarts of water ; pour it hot over 
the caulifloweni^ let them stand till cold, take them out, 
and lay on a dean doth to drv^ put them into the lazs 
you intend for them; boil white wine vinegar, half an 
ounce of white peppercorns, the same of maoe, and ginger 
sliced; pour it over the cauliflower bcnling hot. 

TO PICKLE NASTURTIUMS. 

Gather the nasturtium berries soon after the blossom is 
ofi^ put them into cold salt and water for three days; 
change the water each day; make the pidde of wlute 
wine vinegar, mace, white peppers, three or four capsicoma; 
make it boihiig hot; drain the salt and water from the 
nasturtiums, and pour the vinegar hot over them. Tie 
down and keep for use. 

TO MAKE PICCALILLY. 

Take a small white cabbage, cut it into pieces, pull 
cauliflower into small pieces, small cucaml)ers3 French 
beans, small onions, cucumbers cut down the nuddle and 
the seeds taken out, cut them into pieces one inch and a 
hdf long, ladish pods, or any other vegetable you can 
think of; all must oe salted for two or th^e days; dry in 
the sun or before the Are ; peel one ounce of garhc and slice 
it, cut up one iitick of horseradish, two ounces of mustard 
seed, half an ounce of black peppers, doves, and mace, 
ccoflli them a little, two ounoes ix grcnoid mustard, the 
suae of tramenc, mix the mustard and turmeric with a 
little vinegar, and boil all together (or five minutes; put 
tibe vegetables into jars, and pour the Tinegor boiling hot 
a&d the 6poe over them. Let ikem stand m a hot comer 
fbr an^eek covered down. If you find 1^ vinegar shrinks, 
boil «ome moie, and pour over them; stir Aiem up wilih 
a wooden spoon; when cold tie down with a bladder. 



144 PBACTIGAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



TO PICKLE BARBERRIES. 

Get the barberries before they are too ripe/pick out all 
the dead ones and dried leaves^ tie them in bunches, put 
them in a jar with a large quantity of strong salt and 
water^ when you see them mould over, put them in &esh 
salt and water; they need no vine^r, their own sharp- 
ness is sufficient to keep them. They make a pretty 
garnish mixed with curled parsley. 

TQ PICKLE MUSHROOMS. 

Take the small white button mushrooms, fresh gathered^ 
cut off the dirty end of the stalk, put them in spring 
water, then rub them with a piece of new flannel dipped 
in salt, throw them into more spring water as you do 
them to keep them a good colour, put them in a well- 
tinned stewpan, throw a little salt over them, cover them 
close; boil them for five or six minutes, or till you see 
they are thoroughly hot and the liquor drawn out of 
them; take them out of the liquor and lay between 
cloths to keep them a good colour; when cold put them 
in glass bottles with three or four blades of mace, and 
some white peppercorns; fill up the bottles with white 
wine vinegar; brown vinegar wiU make them a bad 
colour. Cork them up well, and tie a bladder over them. 

TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS BROWN. 

Take large button mushrooms, cut off the dirty end of 
the stalk, wash them in a little vinegar, put them into a 
stewpan, a little ginger sliced, a few blades of mace, and 
white peppers, a dessert spoonful of salt, two or three 
shalots, put as much vinegar as will cover them; let ihem 
stew gently for half an hour; when cold put them in 
wide-mouthed bottles; cork them close and tie bladder 
over them. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 145 



TO MAKE MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Take the large broad mushrooms, put them in a pan; 
break them up with your hand, throw a quarter of a 
pound of salt in to every peck of mushrooms, let them lie 
for three days; put them in ajar, and tie a brown paper 
over them ; put them in the oven for four or five hours, 
take them out and put in a sieve to drain; to every gallon 
of liquor put one ounce of cloves, the same of black 
pepper, sliced ginger, and long peppers, six ounces more 
salt; set it over a slow fire, let it boil for one hour; when 
cold bottle it. Put an equal quantity of spice in each 
bottle; cork up well, and keep m a cool place for use. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Take the mushrooms and crush them with your hand, 
throw salt over them, three-quarters of a pound to a peck 
of mushrooms; let them lie for ten days, stir them up now 
and then, put them in a sieve to drain all night; to one 
gallon of liquor put half an ounce of cloves, the same of 
long peppers, sliced ginger, one ounce of mustard-seeds, 
and mace; boil all together for an hour and a half. When 
cold put into bottles with an equal quantity of spice in 
each. Cork it up, and keep as before. 

TO MAKE WALNUT CATSUP. 

Take young walnuts before the shell is formed, crush 
them in a tub, or pound them in a mortar, squeeze out the 
juice through a coarse cloth; put to every gallon of juice 
one pound of anchovies, half a pound of bay-salt, four 
ounces of Jamaica peppers, two of long peppers, mace, 
cloves, and sliced ging«r, two ounces of shalots, half a 
pound of brown sugar, and a quart of vinegar. Simmer 
all together for two hours; when cold, bottle it, and cork it 
well. It will keep for years, and will improve by keeping. 
Many persons make catsup of the outside shells; when the 
nut is ripe the flavour and colour of the catsup are not so 
fine. 



146 PRACTICAL AKB ECOHOMICAL COOKEKT. 



A Nice SAUCE TO EAT WTTH COLD MEATS. 

Take one quart of table ale, lialf a innt of yinegar, two 
ounces of treacle, quarter of a pound of anchovies, two 
ounces of shalots, one head of garlic cut in two, a few 
spri^ of basil, half an ounce of cWes, mace, long peppers, 
blade peppers, and ginger. Boil all together for hall an 
hour, and let it stand all night. You must not put in 
the bottoms or spice when you bottle it. 

TO MAKE BENGAL CHITNEY. 

Take one pound of apples, one of brown sugar, quarter 
of a pound of salt, half a pound of powdered ginger, 
quarter of a pound of garlic peeled, two ounces of red 
chilies, one pound of sultana raisins, two quarts of vine- 
gar; pound all well together, put it in a stone jar, and 
set it in a warm comer, or on the oven, stirring it daily 
till fit for use, which will be in three weeks or a month. 

CARRACH, OR INDIAN SAUCE FOR GRAVIES. 

Take two heads of garlic, each clove cut in two, one 
ounce of cayenne pepper, quarter of a poiuxd of treacle, 
four or five spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, the same of 
walnut pickle, and essence of anchovies, three spoonfuls 
of mango pickle to a quart of vinegar, and a little pounded 
cochineal. Put it in the chimney comer for a month, 
stir it every day, then filter it. Bottle for use, 

TO MAKE TOMATO SAUCE, 

Let the tomatoes be the first cf op, and thoroughly ripe, 
as the colour is better; put them in ajar in the oven, 
when you find they are getting soft pour off all the dear 
liquor^ put the pulp in a sieve, and with a wooden spoon 
work it through the sieve. To two pounds of pulp put 
one head of garlic, three ounces of shalots pounaed, half 



PRiiCTICAL AKD ECOKOMICAL COOKERY. 147 

a teaspoonful of cayenne, three ounces of salt, one ounce 
of pounded ginger, half a pint of vinegar; boil all toge- 
ther for half an hour; keep stirring^ as it is apt to bum. 
When cold, bottle it in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them 
tight, and tie a wet bladder over the cork. Keep in a 
cool place. 

TO PICKLE TOMATOES. 

Take the tomatoes in the green state, put them into 
salt and water for twenty-four hours; take them out and 
wipe them dry, put them into a jar, boil vinegar with 
mace, sliced ginger, long peppers, and one head of garlic; 
pour it over tne tomatoes boiling hot. Let them stand for 
a fortnight, then boil the vinegar up again, and pour over 
as before. Tie down with a bladder, and put by for 
use. 

TO PICKLE SAMPHIRE. 

Put the saniphire into salt and water for twelve hours, 
take it out and drain from the water, put vine-leaves into 
your preserving-pan, covering the bottom and sides, put 
in the samphire with some mace, white peppers, ginger 
sliced, one spoonful of bay salt; put more vme-leaves on 
the top, fill up with the best vinegar, and cover with a 
plate to keep in the steam. Put it by the side of the fire 
to gradually get hot, keep them there till you see them 
become a fine green; then put them into the jar you 
intend for them, and pour the vinegar over. Tie down 
with a bladder, and put by for use. 

TARAGON VINEGAR. 

Take the taragon before it blossoms, strip off all the 
leaves; to half a pound of taragon leaves put two quarts 
of white wine vinegar. Let it stand for tnree months in 
a jar close tied down, strain it through a muslin, put it 
into small bottles; and cork them well. It keeps much 
better in small bottles. 

l2 



148 PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 



MUSHROOM POWDER. 

Take large button mushrooms^ cut off the dirty end of 
the stalk, lay them on a tin dish^ put them in a slow oven 
to dry, let the liquor that comes from them dry up in the 
mushrooms again. When you find you can crumble 
them to pow^r take them out^ and pound them in a 
mortar with some mace, a little cayenne and white 
pepper. When well pounded sift it through a sieve, and 
bottle for use. Be sure you do not let them burn 
black. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 149 



PAET YIIL 



VEGETABLES. 

REMARKS UPON DRESSING VEGETABLES. 

In dressing vegetables, you should be very particular 
to examine them to see that there are no insects in them. 
Cut off the outside leaves of cauliflowers, brocoli, cabbage, 
greens, aJid Brussels sprouts; throw them into a tub of 
clean water, put in a handful of salt, let them lay a little 
time, well wash them, and drain in a sieve; have your 
water boiling, with a little salt in it, put in the vege- 
tables. When done, take them up and lay on a sieve to 
drain, cover a clean cloth over tnem till you dish them 
up, which must be very soon, as they lose their colour. 

TO BOIL CAULIFLOWERS. 

Choose those that ate close and white, cut the green 
leaves off, see that there are no insects in them, put them 
into cold water, with a handful of salt, let them soak for 
two or three hours, put them into boiling water in a 
white saucepan ; when done, take them up carefully, put 
them in your vegetable dish the flower side upwards ; 
pour melted butter over them if approved of, if not send 
It up in a boat. 

TO STEW CAULIFLOWER IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Pull a white cauliflower into bunches, throw it into 
salt and water, put it into a stewpan with some white 



150 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOEEBT. 

^vy, two blades of mace^ a piece of lemon-peel, and a 
little white pepper; stew till tender, thicken the gravy 
with butter and flour, and add a little cream to whiten it ; 
take out the mace and lemon-peel, add salt to taste. Serve 
in a vegetable dish. 

TO MASH PARSNIPS. 

Scrape and boil them till tender, then pound them in a 
mortar, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a 
little salt and white pepper, a teaoupful of cream; make 
them quite hot, and send to table in a vegetable dish. 

SEAKALE. 

Cut the roots off, and put them in a large quantity of 
water to take out all the sand, tie them in bunches and 
boil them with a little salt. Serve th^n up on toast as 
you do asparagus, and pour melted butter over them. 

TO BOIL BROCOLI. 

Cut the head with a short piece of the stalk, peel off the 
rough skin of the stalk, put them into salt and water for a 
time, boil them in a good quantity of water with a little 
salt; let the water boil before you put the brocoli in; do 
not let them be overdone, or the flower will break. Serve 
them up in a vegetable dish, and melted butter in a boat. 

TO BOIL BROAD BEANS. 

Put the beans into boiling water, with a little salt after 
they are shelled, and a bunch of parsley tied up; boil them 
till tender, chop the parsley, and mix with some good 
melted butter. Serve in a boat. They make a pretty 
comer dish in the early part of the season by rolling some 
slices of ham; just warm them before the fire and lay 
round the beans; raise them up a Httle in the middle. 
Pour melted butter over them. 



PBAGTICAL AND ECONOMIGAL COOKEBT. 151 



TO BOIL FRENCH BEANS. 

Top, tail, and string them; cut them, crossways, very 
thin, throw them into cold water. When you dress them, 
put them into boiling water, with a little salt They will 
take a quarter of an hour boiling. Take them up as soon 
as they are done, or they will lose their colour. Serve 
with melted butter in a boat. 

TO BOIL PEAS. 

Shell them, and be careful to pick out all those that are 
wormeaten; boil them with a bunch of mint tied up with 
a piece of string; add a little salt. Be sure to let the 
water boil up before you put them in. When done, strain 
them in a sieve. Dish them up with a piece of butter and 
one lump of sugar pounded; take out the mint. 

TO STEW GREEN PEAS. 

Chop up a cabbage lettuce, one onion^ a little green 
mint, one spoonful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste, one 
quart of peas; stew all together with half a pint of weak 
broth. When done, thicKcn with a little butter rolled in 
flour. 

TO DRESS CARROTS. 

They require a great deal of boiling. If young, wipe 
off the skins with a cloth, and leave a small piece of the 
green top; when old, scrape them very nicely; boil with 
salt beef. Tou can gamisb any of your disnea with the 
young carrots in the spring of the year. 

TO BOIL TURNIPS. 

Peel and cut them in slices, boil them very quick, 
take them up directly they are done, or they change 
colour, put them into a sieve and squeeze out all the 
water, mash them with a piece of butter, salt, and a little 
cream. Serve them up in a vegetable dish quite hot 



152 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



TO STEW RED CABBAGE. 

Slice a cabbage very thin, put in a stewpan a piece of 
butter, half a giU of vinegar, well wash the cabbage, and 
put it into the stewpan with no more water than hangs 
about it; add some salt and pepper, stew very tender, dish 
it up; have some sausages fned a nice delicate brown and 
lay on the top. Send to table quite hot. 

TO DRESS POTATOES. 

There are so many ways and opinions upon dressing 
potatoes that I am at a loss to know which to recommend, 
but I must say I am in favour of steaming them in their 
skins or peeled, which is preferred. 

TO DRESS NEW POTATOES. 

Rub off the skins with a coarse cloth and a piece of salt, 
put them into cold water as you do them, if not they lose 
their colour; put them into a saucepan with a little salt 
and hot water. They will take about twenty minutes 
boiling. Send them to table in a napkin; do not boil 
them too long before you want them for table. A little 
mint tied up in a ball and boiled with them is a great im- 
provement. 

TO MASH POTATOES. 

When bpiled, mash them in a saucepan with a wooden 
spoon and a good piece of butter, salt, and milk; beat 
them well, put them into'a mcfuld, turn out on a vegetable 
dish, or you can turn them out and brown before the fire. 

TO MAKE A PRETTY DISH OF POTATOES. 

Boil and mash as before, but do not put any milk; roll 
them into balls, dip them in egg and crumbs of bread, fry 
in lard or dripping; let it boil before you put them in; 
do them as quickly as possible a nice brown. Serve them 
up on a napkin. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 1 53 



TO SCALLOP POTATOES, 

Boil and mash them with butter, milk, and a little salt; 
beat them very fine, put them into scallop shells, and 
brown them before the fire in a Dutch oven; melt a bit 
of butter in a spoon and pour over them while browning. 
Four make a nice dish. Lay them on a napkin. 

ANOTHER WAY TO SEND MASHED POTATOES TO TABLE. 

Mash them as before, and lay them on the top of a wire 
sieve; place your vegetable dish under the sieve, press the 
potatoes with the back of a wooden spoon through the 
sieve into the vegetable dish ; they will look like threads, 
and very light; do not touch .them, or you will spoil the 
look of them. If you approve of it, you can lay sausages, 
fried, round the edge. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Peel the potatoes and wash them clean, then peel them 
again with a sharp knife; if possible, make only one peel 
of the .whole potato; throw them into salt and water; when 
you think you have enough for a dish, take them out and lay 
on a cloth to dry; have some fat boiling in a stewpan and 
throw them in; when a fine brown and crisp, take them 
out with a slice, lay them on a sieve; when all done, dish 
them up on a napkin. You must not put too many in the 
fat at a time, or they will not crisp. 

TO MAKE PEACH POTATOES. 

Boil and mash some potatoes with a piece of butter and 
a little salt; make them into balls the size of a peach; 
with the handle of a spoon or knife make a mark in the 
side, and press the top with your thumb to make it have 
the appearance of a peach; brush them over with a little 
egg, set them on a tin before the fire, tinge them on one 



154 PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOEEBT. 

side a little darker than the other to give them the appear- 
ance of ripe fruit. Dish them up on a napkin, with a few 
green bay leaves intermixed. 

TO BOIL ARTICHOKES. 

Cut the stalks close and pull off a few of the outside 
leaves. They are better if cut a day or two before wanted; 
put a handful of salt in the water when you boil them. 
Dish them up, and serve with good melted butter in a 
boat. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Peel the large ones in the shape of a sugar-loaf; they 
will take about twenty minutes boiling. You must take 
them up directly they are done, or they set too soft to 
stand in the dish. Pour white sauce over them. 



TO STEW CUCUMBERS. 

Peel and cut the cucumbers in slices an inch thick, slice 
some onions, and flour them; fry them in butter a fine 
brown, put them in a stewpan with some brown gravy, a 
little pepper, a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, and salt to 
taste; stew them till tender; skim off the &t if there is 
any. Serve them up for a comer dish. 

TO BOIL VEGETABLE MARROW. 

Peel them very thin, cut in quarters, take out the seeds, 
boil them in water with a little salt; when done take them 
up very carefully, and lay them on toasted bread; pour 
over some good melted butter. If to stew, when half done 
take them up, and put them in some good white gravy, a 
little salt and pepper, stew them gently, thicken the gravy 
with a Httle flour and butter, add a little cream. The 
young ones are the best, not more than six or seven 
inches long. 



PRACTICAL XKD ECONOMICAL COOKERT. 155 



TO DRESS ASPARAQUS. 

Scrape your asparagus and cut off the white ends, tie 
them in bundles, and cut all one length; boil in salt and 
water till tender, take them up, have a toast ready, dip it 
in the asparagus water and lay the asparagus on it. Pour 
over some good melted butter. 

TO STEW SPANISH ONIONS. 

Take three Spanish onions, peel and put them in a 
stewpan, with four ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
put them by the side of the fire, let them stew very 
gently; when you find the under side brown, turn them. 
They will take three hours doing very slowly. Take 
them up very carefully, and put them in the dish you 
intend to send them to table m, take ofi* all the fat rrom 
the gravy, put one teaspoonful of soy, the same of mush- 
room catsup, thicken it and pour over the onions. They 
make a nice comer dish to eat with a haunch of roast 
mutton. 

TO STEW SPANISH ONIONS WHITE. 

Peel and tie them up in a piece of muslin, boil them 
till tender in water witn a little salt in it; they will take 
one hour boiling; it depends greatly on the size; you may 
know by putting a fork through them. When done take 
them up, untie the muslin, and lay them carefully on 
your dish; make some good thick melted butter with 
milk instead of water, with a bit of pounded mace in it, 
and a pinch of salt ; pour it over the onions, and send to 
table hot. They make a nice comer dish. 

TO STEW CELERY WHITE. 

Take off the outside kaves and green ends, cut the 
white part into pieces four inches long, wash it clean, and 
stew in veal gravy, with two blades of mace; when tender 



156 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

thicken the gravy with a litde butter rolled in flour, a 
little salt and white pepper, half a teacupful of cream; if 
you have no cream you must stew the celery in milk. 
This makes a nice comer dish when you have boiled 
turkey. 

TO STEW CELERY BROWN. 

Cut it as before, stew it in brown gravy with one 
spoonful of soy, the same of catsup, a Httle pepper. Lay 
tne celery in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. 

TO STEW CARROTS. 

Half boil them, then slice them, stew in a teacupful of 
weak broth a little pepper, salt, and mace, pounded; when 
done, thicken them with butter and flour worked to- 
gether, add half a teacupful of cream, two tablespoonfuls 
of capers; shake all together. Dish them up in a vege- 
table dish. Be sure not to let them boil after the cream 
is in. 

TO STEW CARDOONS. 

Take the inside of the cardoons, well wash them, boil 
in salt and water, put them in a stewpan with some gravy, 
a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, three of catsup, pepper and 
salt to taste^ thicken it with butter rolled in flour. Send 
them to table in a vegetable dish. 

TO STEW BEETROOT. 

Boil two beetroots quite tender, peel them, slice one, 
pound the other in a mortar, wring it in a coarse cloth to 
get out all the juice, have a little white gravy and white 
pepper, put the slices of beetroot and the juice in a stew- 
pan with the gravy, add a tablespoonful of vinegar and 
salt to taste, let it stew two or three minutes; thicken the 
gravy lightly with a little flour and butter. Send it to 
table in a vegetable dish. 



PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 157 



TO STEW SORREL FOR FRICANDEAU. 

Wash the sorrel, put a piece of butter in a stewpan 
with the sorrel, a Httle salt, simmer very gently; when 
done, pass it through a coarse sieve, put it back into the 
stewpan, keep it hot till wanted. 

TO DRESS SPINACH AND ECCS. 

Pick and wash the spinach in several waters, put a 
saucepan on the fire, with some water and salt in it; when 
it boils, put in the spinach, let it boil for five or six 
minutes; if tender turn it into a sieve, and squeeze out all 
the water, chop it fine on a board, put a piece of butter 
in a stewpan, with pepper and a little grated nutmeg, 
make it quite hot) lay some on the dish you intend it to 
go to table in, have a stewpan of water on the fire, and 
break in five or six eggs; they will take three minutes and 
a half boiling; take them up with a slice, and trim 
them round, taking off all the loose pieces; lay them on 
the spinach in the disb, and place the remainder of the 
spinach round the eggs. This makes a pretty comer 
dish in the spring for dinner. 

TO DRESS ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH ECCS. 

If the bottoms are dried, soak them the night before; 
boil them in plenty of water, with a piece of butter and salt, 
it will make them look plumper when done; have ready 
some yolks of eggs boiled hard; place the artichoke bot- 
toms on your disn, and put a yolk of egg in each bottom. 
Pour over them good melted butter, made with milk. 



158 PRACTICAL Ain> ECONOMICAL COOKERT. 



PAET IX. 



SAUCES. 



TO MAKE CELERY SAUCE. 



Cut up all the white part of two heads of celery, stew 
them in white gravy or milk; stew till quite tender; turn 
a sieve bottom upwards, and with a spoon work the celery 
through; add a uttle salt and white pepper. If not thicK 
enou^ add a little butter rolled in flour, and give it one 
boil up; put half a teacupful of cream to whiten it. This 
makes a good sauce for boiled turkey. 

TO MAKE ONION SAUCE. 

Peel some onions, put them into a stewpan with some 
water ; boil till tender ; strain the water from them, and 
pass them through a sieve with the back of a wooden 
spoon; add a little salt, white pepper, and a piece of 
butter rolled in flour, half a teacupful of cream or milk; 
give it one boil up. This sauce is good with roast shoul- 
der of mutton, boiled rabbit, or partridges. 

TO MAKE APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare and core some apples, put them into a saucepan, 
with a spoonful of water; put the lid on dose and stew 
them for a few minutes; when done, beat them up with a 
fork; put in a small piece of butter and a little sugar; 
send to table in a boat. This sauce is eaten with roast 
pork and geese. 



PRACTICAL Ain> ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 159 



TO MAKE CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Peel and cut a cucumber into four, longways, take out 
the seeds, cut them in pieces one inch long, and round 
them a little^ stew them in a small quantity of white 
^vy, adding salt and pepper to taste, thicken with a 
kttle butter and flour, a squeeze of lemon, and one lump 
of sugar; the gravy must not be very thick, as the cu- 
cumber must be distinct. This sauce is good with lamb 
cutlets. 

TO MAKE BREAD SAUCE. 

Boil one pint of milk, a few white peppercorns, one 
blade of mace, one onion sliced, boil for five or six 
minutes; have ready some bread crumbs in a basin, strain 
the milk over them, put a plate over the basin, and let it 
stand for half an hour; put it in a saucepan with a piece 
of butter, and salt to taste; it must not be too thick. 
This sauce is eaten with pheasants, partridges, pea-fowl, 
and guinea-fowl. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Put a quart of milk over the fire, with two blades of 
mace, the rind of one lemon, one onion sliced, a few 
white peppercorns ; boil together for a quarter of an hour, 
then stram it; have ready a stewpan with four ounces of 
butter and as much flour as wiU make it into a stifl* batter; 
keep stirring it, and put in the milk you have boiled; be 
sure it does not bum; keep stirring till it boils, add a 
little cream when it boils, and salt to taste, strain, and set 
it by for use. This sauce is good for boiled chicken, 
sweetbreads, or any other white dish. 

TO MELT BUTTERk 

Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a nice clean sauce* 
pan, shake in as much flour as you think you will require, 
keep stirring it with a wooden spoon in your right hand. 



160 PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

have a jug of boiling water in your left hand, and pour 
it into the butter and flour till it is of the thickness you 
require. You will never have the butter lumpy if you 
go by this receipt. 

TO MAKE CAPER SAUCE. 

Chop some capers, put them into melted butter, with 
a little of the vinegar. Send it up with boiled leg of 
mutton. 

TO MAKE MOCK CAPER SAUCE. 

Boil some parsley, chop it not very fine, put it in some 
melted butter with a tablespoonful of vinegar. Gave it 
one boil up. 

TO MAKE HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Grate a stick of horseradish on a clean bread-grater, 
put to it one spoonful of mustard, one of saU, a quarter 
of a spoonful of pepper, one spoonful of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, some cream to make it a fine thick- 
ness. This sauce is good with roast beef, hot or cold, 
rump and beef steaks, &c. 

PARSLEY AND BUTTER. 

' Boil some leaves of parsley very green, chop it fine, 
put it into some good melted butter. This is good with 
boiled fowls or knuckle of veal. 



TO MAKE LIVER SAUCE. 

Parboil the livers of rabbits or fowls, chop them very 
fine, have some parsley boiled and chopped, and a little 
lemon-peel chopped fine, salt and pepper; mix all together 
in some melted butter, and give it one boil up. This sauce 
is nice with boiled fowls or rabbit. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 161 



ECC SAUCE. 

Boil three eggs for ten minutes, throw them into cold 
water, take off the shells, chop them not too fine, put 
them into melted butter. You may mix half a teaspoon- 
ful of made mustard in the sauce if approved of. This 
sauce is eaten with salt fish. 

CREEN SAUCE FOR CREEN COOSE. 

Scald some gooseberries, add a little sugar and butter, 
a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice. Boil all together for 
two minutes. Send it to table in a boat. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take some green mint, wash it very clean, shake it 
dry, pick the leaves off and chop them fine; put a tea- 
spoonful of water to the mint, some sugar and vinegar. 
Stir it up, and send it to table with roast lamb, hot or 
cold. 

SHALOT SAUCE. 

Chop four or five shalots very fine, put them into some 
brown gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, and one glass of red 
wine, a little pepper and salt. Give it a boil up. This 
sauce is good with wild fowl. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Peel some button mushrooms, throw them into a basin 
with a little lemon-juice; when you have peeled them all 
put them into a saucepan with a little salt, a piece of 
butter, some white pepper; stew them gently for twenty 
minutes; roll a piece of butter in flour, a grate of nut- 
meg, shake them well round; add four tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Do not boil them after the cream is in. 

M 



162 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a small 
stewpan^ shake in some flonr, keep stirring it, put to it 
half a pint of white gravj^ one tablespoonfnl of catsup, 
the same of soj, anchovy^ and Beading sauce, two spoon* 
fuls of capers not chopped, on€ tablespoonfiil of caper 
vinegar, a little salt. Give it one boil up. This is the 
proper sauce for stewed salmon. 



LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Take a live hen lobster, take out the spawn, put the 
lobster into boiling salt and water; boil for a quarter of 
an hour, take it up, remove the claws, cut the body down 
the back, take out all the meat, and pick out the red 
coral, if there is any in; if you do not want it for gar- 
nishing your turbot or fish, put it in a mortar and pound 
it with a piece of butter, and add it to your lobster when 
you have picked it from the shells and cut it up; crack 
the claws, and take out the meat and chop it; turn a 
sieve upside down, and with a wooden spoon work all the 
black spawn through to the lobster. Put it all into some 
melted butter, give it one boil up. The black spawn 
will cause the sauce to look a fine red colour. 



OYSTER SAUCE. 

Open your oysters, save the liquor, be careful you do 
not drop any grit in, put them m a stewpan, and give 
them a scald ; take off the beards and boil the beards in 
their own liquor, with two or three blades of mace, for five 
minutes; strain them through a piece of muslin; have 
some good melted butter made with milk instead of water; 
put the liquor and oysters in; give them one boil up. 



PRACTICAL AND ECOKOMICAL COOKEET. 163 



SHRIMP SAUCE. 



Pick the shrimps, and boil the skins in half a |>int of 
water; strain; in that melt some butter, put in the shrimps, 
with one teaspoonful of the essence of anchovy ; let it 
boil up. 



ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Take out the bones of one or two anchovies, chop them, 
put them into melted butter, give them one boil up. If 
you prefer the essence, mix a tablespoonftd in some butter. 

JERSEY SAUCE. 

Put a few leaves of basil, the same of taragon, parsley, 
one onion chopped, two or three leaves of balm, the thm 
peel of half a lemon, two anchovies; beat all in a mortar 
with a glass of vinegar; when beat to a pulp, squeeze the 
juice tlurough a clot h, p ut a piece of butter in a saucepan 
with a Httle flour. When melted, put in the juice, with 
one teacupful of water and one spoonful of mushroom 
catsup; keep stirring till it boils; add a little salt and 
cayenne pepper. This sauce is good to stew fish in, 
especially fresh-water fish. 

TO MAKE BROWNING. 

This is 80 necessary in cooking that no cook should be 
without it in her kitchen. Put half a pound of sugar in 
a stewpan with a spoonful of water, put it over the fire, 
see that it does not bum; when it looks thick and brown, 
like treacle, put to it a tablespoonfol of salt, a few allspice 
berries, two or three shalots, one pint of table beer, and naif 
a gill of vinegar; boil it well; it will take half an hour; 
then strain it. When cold, bottle it for use ; it will colour 
gravies, soups, or anything brown. 

m2 



164 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



TO MAKE CLAZE. 

Boil down a shin of beef in two quarts of water, some 
carrot) onion, and a little black pepper; boil till all the 
goodness is out of the meat, strain it through a sieve, and 
let it get cold ; take off the fat and all the sediment from 
the bottom, put in a little browning, boil it down till it 
becomes thick and ropy, put it into a jar, put that into a 
saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour or 
two; put a wooden skewer in it and stir often; when it 
hangs to the skewer it is done enough; take it out of the 
water and stand it by for use. When you want to use it, 
put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water to melt, and 
with a small hair brush put. it over tongues, hams, &c., 
after they are skinned. You must not cover them down 
till the glaze is set, as the steam will take all the glaze off. 

TO MAKE FORCEMEAT. 

Take half a pound of veal, scraped, from the skin, half 
a pound of lean ham, half a pound of beef suet, chopped 
fine; put all into a mortar, with half a pound of bread 
crumbs, some chopped parsley, lemon thyme, and winter 
savoury, a little lemon-peel, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and 
salt to taste; pound all together, with three raw eggs, into 
a smooth mass. This stuffing is proper for savoury pies, 
soups, and ragouts, made into balls, or to force any sort of 
poultry. You can add oysters and a shalot, if approved of. 

TO MAKE VEAL STUFFING. 

Chop half a pound of suet, the same of bread crumbs, a 
little lemon-peel and parsley chopped fine, some lemon 
thj^me and winter savoury, pepper and salt to taste, and 
a uttle grated nutmeg; bind with two raw eggs. This 
forcemeat is proper for turkey, hare, or veal. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 165 



TO MAKE FORCEMEAT BALLS. 

Take forcemeat^ roll it on a board with a little flour, 
cut it into small pieces and make them into balls the size 
of a hazel nut, have some dripping boiling hot in a stew- 
pan over the fire, throw in the balls you intend for soup 
and made dishes. For soup only let them just become set; 
for brown use they must be made a light brown. 

TO MAKE ECC BALLS. 

Boil two eggs hard, take out the yolks, put them into 
a mortar with a little salt, cayenne, a small piece of butter 
the size of a nutmeg, a little raw yolk of egg; work well 
together, and roll it on a board with a little dust of flour, 
cut it into pieces, and make the balls the size as above; 
put a saucepan on the fire with some water, a pinch of 
salt, throw in the balls, and boil them for two or three 
minutes. They are used for soups and made dishes. 



TO DRESS ECCS FOR LENT. 



Boil six eggs hard, take ofi* the shells, cut a Spanish 
onion into thin slices, and fry in a little butter; take out 
the yolks of the eggs whole, and chop the whites and fry 
with the onions. When nicely browned, add one spoon- 
ful of catsup and one of vinegar, a little salt and pepper; 
let it fry for five minutes longer. When done, put it mto 
a vegetable dish and place the yolks of the eggs on the 
top. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Boil eggs hard, take off the shell; ten minutes is suf- 
ficient to harden them; cut them in half the long v^ay, 
boil one pint of milk, with one bay-leaf, a blade of mace, 
a piece of lemon-peel, a few white peppercorns ; let it 
boil for ten minutes, strain it through a sieve, have a 



166 FBACTIGAL AND ECOKOMICAL COOKERY* 

saucepan over the fire with some butter and flour melted^ 
pour to it the milk, keep stirring all the time; it must not 
be too thin; add a little salt, put the eggs into a vegetable 
dish, the yolk side uppermost, put into the sauce two 
spoonfuls of capers with their vinegar, give a stir round, 
and pour the sauce over the eggs. You must send it to 
table hot. 

TO FORCE EGCS. 

Boil seven eggs hard for ten minutes, take off the 
shells^ cut a piece off the large end and take out the yolks. 
Make a forcemeat as follows : Take six oysters, scald 
them, and take off the beards, chop them up with four 
of the yolks, a little chopped parsley, and nutmeg; put a 
piece of butter into a stewpan with a few bread crumbs, 
pepper and salt to taste, and the oysters ; work them into 
a stiff paste; with this fill the eggs, place them in a vege- 
table dish, make a little tomato sauce hot, and pour in 
amongst them. 

MIXED ECCS. 

Put two ounces of butter into a small stewpan, a little 
cayenne pepper and salt; when the butter is melted break 
in four eggs, stir with a wooden spoon to prevent them 
sticking to the pan. When quite set, dish them up on 
buttered toast. 

POACHED EQCS. 

Put a stewpan over the fire with a quart of water, a 
small piece of butter, and a pinch of salt; let the water 
boil, break in as many e^gs as you require; they will take 
four minutes boiling. Take them out carefully with an 
egg slice, trim off all the loose pieces^ and lay them on 
spinach or toast. 

TO FRY HAM AND ECCS. 

Cut some slices of ham very thin, put a piece of butter 
in the frying-pan; when melted put m the slices of ham; 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEBT. 1 67 

when done on one side turn them on the other, they will 
only take a few minutes doing; when done lay them on 
a dish, break as many eggs into the pan as you require, 
fry them^ and do not turn them; take a little of the fat 
out of the pan with a spoon, and pour over them when 
they are set; take them up and lay them on the ham. 
Send to table hot. 

TO BOIL EQG8. 

Put a pint of water into a saucepan over the fire, let 
it boil, put in the eggs with a spoon, and boil for three 
minutes and a half ; take them up and wipe clean. Put 
them into egg-cups the large size uppermost. 

TO BOIL RICE. 

Put three quarts of water into a clean saucepan, with a 
piece of salt and the juice of half a lemon, wash and pick 
three-quarters of a pound of rice; when the water boils 
throw in the rice, well stir it, let it boil for twenty 
minutes; let each grain be distinct; turn a sieve upside 
down and strain the rice through it. Set it before the 
fire to dry, or in a hot cupboard ; stir it up with a fork 
two or three times to prevent it getting ca ked on the 
top. 



CAUDLES, GRUEL, &c. 

TO MiMCE RICE CAUDLE. 

Haye some boiling water in a saucepan over the fire^ 
mix* a little ground rice with a little cold w^er, put it 
into the saucepan and boil; when of a proper thickness 
put it into a basin with sugar, a little pounded cinnamoui 
and one glass of brandy or white wine. 



168 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



RICE MIUC. 



Boil six ounces of rice in two quarts of milk, after you 
have well washed it; boil with a stick of cinnamon, and 
sugar to taste. Boil it slowly. 



ARTIFICIAL ASS'S MILK. 



Boil a quart of milk with a quart of water, one ounce 
and a half of sugar, half an ounce of eringo roots, half an 
oimce of conserve of roses, till reduced to half. Take it 
as required. 



GRIT CRUEL. 



Boil half a pint of grits in three pints of water, and 
more if required, it depends upon the thickness you like 
the gruel. When boiled, strain it through a clean sieve 
kept for the purpose. Serve with salt and butter, or 
sugar and wine and a little nutmeg. 

WATER CRUEL. 

Put a pint of water in a saucepan over the fire, rub 
smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal with a little cold 
water, and stir it mto the boiling water. Let it boil for 
ten minutes. You can make it with milk instead of 
water if you prefer it. 

« 

ARROWROOT. 

Put half a pint of water in a saucepan over the fire 
with a little grated nutmeg, mix a spoonful of arrowroot 
smooth in a basin, with a little cold water, then by 
degrees mix in the hot water; if not thick enough, 
return it back again to the saucepan and boil for a minute 
or two. Add wine and sugar to taste. You can make 
it with milk; if so, do not add the wine. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 169 



TAPIOCA. 

Wash the tapioca in several waters, and let it soak in 
the water you intend to boil it in for four hours, then 
simmer it with a piece of lemon-peel till it looks clear; it 
thickens very much. When done, put in wine and sugar, 
and a little lemon-juice if approved of; take out the 
lemon-peel. 

SACO. 

Wash it well, and soak it for two hours in water; 
throw that away, and add more water, with a piece of 
lemon-peel, and a stick of cinnamon ; simmer it gently, 
till the berries look clear; take out the cinnamon and 
lemon-peel, add wine and sugar to taste; you can boil 
it in milk if you please; if so, you must well wash and 
soak it before yo u p ut the milk to it, and take care it 
does not bum. When done, add a little sugar and 
nutmeg. 

SWEET PANADA. 

Put a pint of water into a saucepan, with a little 
grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel grated, one glass of wine, 
and sugar to taste; let it boil up, then put in some bread 
crumbs, and let it boil fast. When it looks clear, and is of 
a proper thickness, it is done. You can add a few cur- 
rants to it if you please. 



CHICKEN PANADA. 

Take the breast of a chicken, take off the skin, pound 
the meat in a mortar to a paste, with a little of the water 
the chicken was boiled in; season it with salt, nutmeg, 
and lemon-peel; boil it for a few minutes: it must not 
be too thin. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Take two ounces of pearl-barley, well wash it, boil it 
in two quarts of water, with a piece of lemon-peel, till it 
looks white and the barley gets soft ; strain it through a 
clean sieve; add a little lemon-juice if approved of. 



170 PRACTICAL AJSCD ECONOMICAL COOKE&T. 



APPLE WATER. 

Slice four apples, put them in a jug, and pour over 
them one quart of boiling water; cover it down close: 
when cold it is fit for use. 

Rhubarb done the same way makes a very nice diink, 
by adding a lump or two of sugar. 

TOA8T-AND-WATER. 

Toast a piece of bread before the fire, very brown and 
dry, but not burnt; you must have a kettle of boiling 
spring water; put the bread into a jug, and pour the 
boiling water over it; cover down dose; let it stand till 
cold, men it is fit for use. There is nothing so unpleasant 
as toast-and-water made with cold water and coloured 
just as it is wanted. 

The above receipts axe very aimplei but are very useful 
in illness. 



P&iCnCAL AND ECONOMIGAL COOKE&T. 171 



PART X 



HOME-MADE WINES. 

Home-made wines are so little thought of in the 
present day, that I shall not attempt to dwell largely upon 
them. 

BLACK CURRANT WINE. 

To every gallon of curmnts, well jammed, add one gal- 
lon of boiling water; let them stand three or four days, 
stirring them every day; strain them, and to every gallon 
of juice put three pounds and a half of sugar; well mix 
up the sugar in the juice, let it stand tiU the skim breaks, 
then put it into your cask; let it stand a fortnight, add 
half a pint of brandy to a gallon of wine, and bung it 
down close. Let it stand for six months, then bottle it. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY WINE. 

Take your gooseberries when they are full grown, but 
not getting lipe, crush them in a tub with a mallet; to 
every gallon of gooseberries put a gallon of water; let them 
stand four days ; stir them every day, and strain them 
through a sieve; to every gallon of jmce put four pounds 
of lump sugar, mix it well in the tub^ let it stand one daj, 
put it m your cask, leave the bung out fox five or six 
weeks, take off the scum as it rises, have a little of the 
liquor in reserve to fill up the caek; put a bottle of brandy 
to six gallons of wine, and bung it up ; let it stand one 
year in the cask before it is bottled. This wine drinks 
very nmch like champagne. 



172 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



ELDER FLOWER WINE. 

To every three gallons of water put nine pounds of 
lump sugar, boil it half an hour; while quite hot put one 
quart of elder flowers, picked from the stalks; when milk- 
warm add the juice and peel of six lemons, peeled very 
thin, three pounds of raisins stoned, spread two or three 
spoonfuls of yeast upon a piece of well-toasted bread, stir 
it often for three or four days ; when it has done working, 
tun it. It will be fit to bottle in six or eight months. 

CINCER WINE. 

To six gallons of water put sixteen pounds of lump 
sugar, six ounces of ginger bruised, the rind of six lemons 
cut very thin, let all boil together half an hour, then let 
it stand till milk warm, pour it into your cask, and add 
the juice of the six lemons, four' spoonfuls of yeast, and 
three pounds of raisins ; stir it six or seven times through 
the bung-hole, put in half an ounce of isinglass and a pint 
of brandy, and close the cask; in about six weeks it will 
be fit to bottle. Let it stand for two or three months 
before you drink it. 

DAMSON WINE. 

To three pecks of damsons put three gallons of water, 
boil and stir them till cold, strain them through a sieve, 
but do not press them; to every gallon of liquor put three 
pounds and a half of lump sugar, put it into your cask, 
and when it has done working put the bung in and stop 
it close. Let it stand for six months, or as much longer 
as you please, the longer the better. When you bottle 
it, put a spoonful of brandy in each bottle. 

ENGLISH SHERRY^ 

Boil fifteen pounds of lump sugar in five gallons of 
water, well skim it; when cold put a (]^uart of new ale 
wort to every gallon of liquor, and a httle yeast; let it 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 173 

work a day or two: put it in a cask with a pound of 
sugar-candy, six pounds of raisins chopped, a pint of 
brandy, and one ounce of isinglass melted. When the 
fermentation is over stop it close. Let it stand eight or 
ten months, then bottle it. Put a teaspoonful of brandy 
into each bottle, and well cork it. 

RED CURRANT WINE. 

Take the currants when quite ripe, pick them from the 
stalks, bruise them in a tub ; to every gallon of fruit put 
one gallon of water ; let them stand twenty-four hours ; 
strain it ; to every gallon of liquor put three pounds and 
a half of Lisbon sugar. Mix it up well together ; let it 
stand three or four days ; take the scum off and tun it ; 
when it has done hissing in the barrel, put in a quart of 
brandy to a nine-gallon cask ; put the bung in and stop 
it close ; let it stand twelve months before you bottle it. 



I 



CRAPE WINE. 

To every gallon of grapes, when picked and bruised, 
ut one gallon of water and two ounces of logwood chips; 
et it stand for three days, then strain it ; to every gallon 
of liquor put four pounds of sugar ; stir it up well, and 
put it into your casK; you must not bung it up till it has 
done hissing ; keep it eight or ten months, then bottle it, 
and put a tablespoonful of brandy into each bottle. The 
longer it is kept the better. 

RASPBERRY WINE. 

Gret the raspberries when quite ripe and dry, mash 
them in a tub ; put to every gallon of mashed fruit one 
gallon of water; let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain 
it, and press the fruit; to every gallon of liquor put three 
pounds of sugar ; let it stand for two or three days, take 
off the scum, and tim it ; when it has done working, put 
one pint of brandy to every four gallons of wine, and well 
bung it; let it stand for twelve months, then bottle it. 



174 PRACTICAL AWD ECONOMICAL COOKERY- 



ELDER WINE. 

Strip the berries off the stalks ; to every quart of 
berries put three pints of water ; let them stand twenty- 
four hours, then boil them half an hour, strain and press 
the fruit ; to every gallon of liquor put three pounds and 
a half of sugar; put it back into your copper again, and 
boil it, with sliced ginger, cloves, and allspice, for a 
quarter of an hour, then put it into a tub ; when nearly 
cold, toast a slice of bread, and spread it over with new 
yeast on both sides ; put it into the wine; let it stand for 
two or three days to work ; put it into your barrel ; take 
some of the spice and tie it up in a small muslin bag, tie 
a string to it, and drop it into the wine through the bung- 
hole, and fasten the string to the bimg, to prevent it 
from sinking to the bottom. You can leave the vent-peg 
out for a day or two, till it has done working. This wine 
will be fit to drink at Christmas. 

RAISIN WINE. 

To one hundred-weight of Smyrna raisins put twenty 
gallons of cold water. Place a stick in the tub, and stir 
them two or three times each day for a month or five 
weeks, then mash the raisins with your hand, and strain 
them through a sieve. Put the liquor into your barrel^ 
with two ounces of isinglass, diasoived, three pounds of 
sugar-candy, and one bottle of brandy ; bung it up close, 
and let it stand for twelve months, then bottle it. This 
makes a very fine wine. 

ORANCSE WINE. 

To ten gallons of water put thirty pounds of lump 
sugar; boil for twenty minutes; take off all the scum; 
take four dozen of the largest Seville oranges you can 
^t^ peel two dozen as thin as you possibly can, put the 
rinds into a tub^ and pour over them the water and sugar 



PRACTICAL AKD ECOKOMICAL COOKERY. 175 

boiling hot; squeeze the juice of the oranges and add it 
to the liquor ; when nearly cold put three spoonfuls of 
new yeast, and let it work for three or four days ; take 
out the peel, put it into the cask with two ounces of 
isinglass melted in a little of the liquor ; in two days 
bung it up. In four months it will be fit to bottle. 

LEMON WME. 

To one gallon of water put three pounds and a half of 
lump sugar; boil for a quarter of an hour; take off the 
scum that rises. Take eight large lemons, peel five as 
thin as you possibly can ; put them into a tu d and pour 
the boiling water and sugar over them; squeeze the juice 
of the lemons, strain it through a sieve, and add it to the 
liquor; when lukewarm put in a spoonful of new yeast, 
and let it work for two or three days; take out the peel 
and put it into your cask; bung it up, let it stand for six 
months, then bottle it. 



176 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



ON THE MANAGEMENT OF A DAIRY. 

It must be obvious to all persons that a dairy requires 
the greatest care and attention. As regards cleanliness^ 
all the utensils should be kept in the nicest order. It is 
necessary that the slabs, shelves, and floor of the dairy 
should be washed down every morning with cold spring 
water^ and the temperature of the air should be preserved 
as eqyal as possible; there should be Venetian shutters in 
summer to keep out the sun, which would admit the cool 
air. No meat, poultry, or animal matter should be hung 
in your dairy, or it will spoil the butter and milk. The 
cows should be milked at regular hours, and the greatest 
care should be taken to thoroughly empty their bags, or 
you will find the quantity of milk decrease daily. The 
milk should be strained as soon as possible into your pans, 
which should be made of glass or zinc. Let it stand 
twenty-four hours, then take oflF the cream with a skim- 
ming dish very carefully, and put it into your pot; let 
the milk stand twelve hours longer, then skim it again. 
It is necessary you should turn the cream into a clean pot 
every other aay, in hot weather more especially, xou 
should be very careful to scald the dairy utensib every 
morning, and put them out in the air. 

The best time to chum is early in the morning. You 
must strain the cream through a cheese-cloth into your 
chum, fasten it up clos6, and turn it regularly till you find 
the butter is come; take it out with your hands, and put 
it into a pan or cooler, and well wash it with spring water, 
changing the water two or three times, till you find the 
whey is thoroughly worked out; then shake a little salt 
over it, and worK it up well, and make it into what shapes 
you please. 






Woodwcio <ir Snipe. 



t? 



Rabbit- its- BotUng 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 177 



ON TRUSSING AND BONING POULTRY. 

It is very important that all cooks should be proficient 
in this necessary art, as in the country, where families 
keep poultry for their own consumption, it becomes the 
duty for her to prepare them for the spit, where there is 
no kitchen-maid kept. By following the directions I 
have here laid down they will soon become proficient in 
this necessary qualification. 

TURKEY FOR ROASTING. 

Break the leg-bone close to the foot, and draw out the 
sinews from the thigh; where you have no hook in the 
wall for this purpose, you can place the foot behind a door 
and draw them that way; cut ofl'the neck close to the 
back, leaving the skin of the crop sufficiently long to turn 
over the back, then take out the crop, put your middle 
finger in the throat end and loosen the liver and heart, 
cut it at the vent and draw out the gut, pull out the 
gizzard and liver; be careful not to break the gall; wipe 
the inside perfectly clean with a wet cloth ; cut the breast 
down close to the back, then put a cloth on the breast and 
beat the high bone down with the side of your cleaver or 
rolling-pin; put a skewer through the joint of the wing, 
place the legs dose to the side, and put the skewer 
through the thigh and body, taking care to bring it out 
in a direct line on the other side, or you will not have 
your turkey a good shape; put another skewer through 
the small part of the leg, passing it through in a straight 
line as before; put a small skewer through the black part 
of the legs to keep up the rump ; cut the gizzard through 
the fleshy part and take out the bag that contains the 
gravel, cut a slit in the skin of the wings and place the 
fiver and gizzard on either side. 

N 



, 1 



178 PRACTICAL AOT) BCOKOMICAL COOKERY. 



TURKEY FOR BOILING 

^ Is drawn the same as for roasting. Put your finger in- 
side the body and work the skin from the legs, taking 
care not to break it; cut off the legs, make a slit in the 
skin and place the legs under the apron, put a skewer 
through the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the 
leg, run it through the body and the leg and wing on the 
otner side; fasten some strin? round the apron of the 
turicey to keep the legs in their place while cooking; the 
liver and gizzard should be placed in the wings, and the 
pinions turned on to the back as for roasting, 

TO BONE A TURKEY. 

• 

It diould not be drawn before boning, only the sinews 
from the legs as before. Place the turkey on a board, cut 
it down the back of the neck, and take out the crop ; com- 
mence with a small knife, not too sharp, at the inside joint 
of the wing, and take the bone ont carefully, and not 
destroy the meat; disjoint the merry-thought bone and 
take it out, and work down the breast-bone and back, 
taking care not to cut the skin; turn the turkey as much 
inside out as possible, and cut the thigh-bones from the 
legs at the joints, and take them out; separate the fledi 
from the leg-bones as high as you can, then break them 
off with your knife; keep on working inside out till you 
get close to the rump, then cut it o^ and you will find 
tihe whole of the inade and bones will come away clean; 
then turn the turkey back for preparing for dressing as 
you please. 

TURKEY POULT 

Should be trussed as follows: Gut it down the back of 
the neck, laying the skin open; cut off the neck close to 
the body and head, leaving the head on the skin, cut off 
the lower part of the bill, draw it the same as a tarkey, 
put a skewer through the joint of the wing, place the legs 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 179 

close to the sides, and pass the skewer through the win^, 
l^s, and body, and the same on the other side; tie a 
piece of thread close round the skin at the crop, twist the 
skin of the neck round the skewer, and run the point 
through the head, with the bill forward; twist the legs 
round the thighs, and tie the knuckle joints close togellier. 
This is generally larded. 

FOWL OR CHICKEN FOR ROASTING. 

Draw the same as a turkey, except drawing the strings of 
the legs, for which there will be no need, unless the fowl 
is old. Cut the neck off close at the crop, pass a skewer 
through the joint of the wings, legs, and body; pass a 
string through the apron and back on either side of the 
legSy tying ike strings close at the back; chop the feet off, 
and put in the gizz£^ and liver. 

FOWL OR CHICKEN FOR BOILINa 

After drawing it very clean, put your forefinger inside 
and loosen the skin from the legs and thighs, twist the 
legs, cut a slit in the skin and work the legs in, and cut 
off the feet, put a skewer through the wing, leg, and body, 
and the same on the other side. It is best not to put the 
gizzard and liver in fowls for boiling. 

QOOSE2 

Pick and stub your goose clean, wash and rub with a 
dry doth^ as that takes off the down; cut off the legs at 
the joint and the wing at the second joint, cut off the neck 
close up, leave the skin of the neck sufficiently long to 
turn over the back, poll out the pipes at the throat, and 
loosen the liver and heart at the neck end, cut it open be- 
tween the vent and the rump, draw out the gizzard and 
entrails, and be careful not to break the gall; wipe it out 
with a wet cloth, beat the breast-bone flat with a cleaver, 
put a skewer through the wing, and draw the legs close 

n2 



180 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

up; put the skewer through the middle of the leg and 
body, and the same on the other side, keep the knuckle 
end of the leg close to the body, stretch the skin over the 
leg, and pass a skewer through it; tie a string round the 
skewers to keep them in their place, cut out the vent, 
make a hole large enough to pass through the rump. By 
that means it will keep in the seasoning. 

DUCKS 

Are trussed in the same fashion, except that the feet 
must be left on, and turned close to the legs. 

WILD FOWL. 

Pick and well clean them, singe them, wipe them out 
clean, cut off the neck close to the back, cut off the wing 
at the second joint, cut off the toes, and turn the feet close 
to the legs; put a skewer through the wing, legs, and 
body, cut off the vent, and put the rump through it. 
Widgeons, teal, &c., are trussed in the same way. 

WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. 

Pick them, be careful not to tear the skin, as they are 
very tender birds, cut off the wing at the second joint, 
turn the legs close to the thighs, and tie them together at 
the knuckle joint; put a#skewer through the wing, thigh, 
and body, the same on the other side, skin the head, take 
out the eyes, put the head on the point of the skewer, with 
the bill close to the breast. These birds must not be 
drawn. 

PHEASANTS AND PARTRIDGES. 

Pick them clean, cut a slit in the back of the neck, take 
out the crop, loosen the liver and gut from the breast with 
your finger, cut out the vent, and draw them; cut off the 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 181 

wings at tHe joint^ beat tHe breast-bone flat, put a skewer 
through the wing, leg, and body, the same on the other 
side, twist the head round, and put it on the point of the 
skewer, the point of the bill fronting the breast; draw the 
legs down and tie them with a string, the same as fowls 
for roasting; put a small skewer through the feet, and put 
some of the long feathers of the tail in the rump. If 
partridges, slit the leg close to the knuckle, and pass the 
other through it before putting in the skewer. 

PIGEONS. 

Pick and singe them, cut off the neck, take out the 
crop, cut out the vent, press your hand on the breast, and 
all the gut and gizzard will come out, leaving the Kver 
and heart in, as pigeons have no gall. If for roasting, cut 
off the toes, make a slit in one of the legs, and put the 
other through it; draw the legs close to the body, put a 
skewer through the wing, leg, and body; beat the breast- 
bone down with the handle of your knife. If for a pie or 
stewing, cut off the legs and stick them in the wings. 

LARKS. 

Pick them, cut off the head, neck, and wings, turn the 
feet close to the legs, draw them, and run a skewer through 
the bodies. Place six on one skewer, so that they may be 
tied on to a bird-spit to roast. Other small birds are 
trussed in the same manner. 

HARE. 

Cut the skin at the belly, taking care not to perforate 
the flesh, loosen the skin from either side of the belly 
towards the back, press the hind-legs towards the chest 
through the skin, cut the legs, and break them off with a 
knife, taking the skin off the tail, and leave it on whole; 
pull the skin down towards the shoulders, press the fore- 



182 PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKEST. 

legs through the skin as yoa did the hiad-Iegs, loosen tbe 
skin at the neck frc»n the flesh with your mife, poU the 
skin over the head to the ears, pat a skewer dirongh the 
ears on the indde, and pull them out, taking care to leave 
them on the head of the hare; cut the sHn fiom the eyes 
and jaws^ paunch it, take out all the blood, take oat the 
liver, Hght^ &c., and cut out the vent; cut the sinews 
underneath the thighs of the hindrl^, place the hare in 
a sitting posture, draw the hind-legs m a straight line to~ 
wards tne shoulder, put a skewer through the shoulder, 
leg, and body, passing it through the leg and shoulder on 
the other side; put another skewer through the thick part 
of the thighs, bring the head back on the shoulders, pass 
a skewer through the blade-bone, taking care to pass it 
through the neck to keep the head in that position; put a 
string under the neck, crossing it over the shoulders, round 
each of the skewers, and fasten it over the back part of the 
loins; place two small skewers through the ears into the 
shoulders of the hare to keep them up. 

Rabbits are trussed in the same way for roasting. 

Fawns are likewise trussed in the same way. 

TO BONE A HARE. 

Skin and paunch as before, lay it on a board, the belly 
upwards, pass your knife down the inside of the chine, 
work the meat off the bones of the chine, taking care not 
to separate the meat from the body of the hare;, work your 
knife round the chine-bones on either side, take care not 
to cut the outside skin of the back, work towards the 
hind-legs, clear the flesh from the thigh-bones, and twist 
them out of the sockets; pass your knife up the inside of 
the leg, and cut the bones out with the knife; now take 
the chine-bone in your hand and work round the bone 
towards the shoulders, press the rib-bones through the 
inside skin, clearing the flesh from the bones on the inside 
up to the neck, separate it at the joint, and twist it out; 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 183 

dear the meat from the blade-bones and cut them out, 
have ready about two pounds of good veal stuffing, lay it 
in the belly of the hare, sew the belly up, truss it up as a 
hare for roasting, taking care to tie a string round the 
skewers to keep it in form. 

Rabbits are boned in the same way. 

RABBIT TO BOIL 

Skin and cut off the ears, take out the eyes, cut down 
each side of the tail towards the hip-bone, draw the le^s 
round to the side, put a skewer through liie leg, pass it 
through the shoulder and body, passmg it through the 
shoulder and leg on the other side, twist the head round, 
and pass the point of the ^ewer through it. 



y^ 



J 



184 PBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



CARVING. 

OBSERVATIONS ON CARVING. 

It is very necessary that all persons should be well 
acquainted with the art of carving, particularly those that 
preside at the head of the table. The following instruc- 
tions will, with the assistance of the plates, enable any 
gentleman or lady to carve correctly. 

A COD'S HEAD.: 

When in season it is esteemed a great delicacy. It 
should be cut'out with a fish-knife; the shoulders are con- 
sidered the best. Cut in pieces down to the bone in lines 
A, B, C, D, putting in the fish-knife at A, C ; help with 
each piece some liver and sound to those that like it. 

A PIECE OF BOILED SALMON. 

The richest part of salmon is the thin, or belly part. 
Divide the back from the belly at the parting, with a fish- 
knife; give to those that like both a thin slice of each, 
taking care at all times to cut it the long way of the fish. 

TURBOT. 

Pass your fish-knife down the side of the bone, from 
the head to the tail, and help it in small square pieces, 
taking care to help some of the fin part with each. 

SADDLE OR CHINE OF MUTTON. 

There are various opinions as to the best mode of 
carving this joint: one by cutting a slit across the chump, 
and cut slices on either side of the backbone in direction 



C A R V 1 N C , 




Ornie of ItuMarv. 




Haundh of Vmieoru. 



Quarca- of Lami 




Zdff- imv ofBaf 




Sirloini of Baf. 



Leff of MuMffru 



C A B V I N C , 




Shoulder or Muum' 







■•■" 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 185 

of A, B ; but the nicest and most economical way is by 
passing your knife down the side of the backbone, and 
cutting slices from c, D; by so doing you help the fat and 
lean together, and it is a great saving. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON OR MUTTON. 

Gut it to the bone in the line of A, B, C ; put in your 
knife at G, and cut it down as deep as you can in the 
direction c, D ; you may cut as many slices as are neces- 
sary from either side. The best flavoured fat will be 
found on the left of the line c, D. Supposing the end D 
is towards you, help a portion of fat, and a sufficient 
quantity of gravy to each. 



FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Separate the shoulder from the breast and ribs by 
passing the knife under in the direction A, B, 0, D, then 
cut the brisket from the ribs in the line O, E; the ribs are 
generally preferred, which are easily divided when well 
chopped, also the brisket. 

FILLET OF VEAL. 

As many prefer the outside, the question should be 
asked before helping; if no one choose it, lay it in the 
dish; the next cut will be white and delicate. Keep cut- 
ting the fillet as level as possible, and help some thin 
slices of fat, which you can cut from the skirt; seasoning 
and gravy to each. 

A HAM. 

The knuckle should be cut off before boiling; com- 
mence at the knuckle part by cutting the outside off in a 
slanting direction, and Jceep on in that manner ; by carving 
it in this way you retain the moisture in your ham. 



186 PRACTIGilL Ain> EGOKOMIGAL COOKERY. 



AITCHBONE OF BEEF. 



Cut off a slice from A, B, then commenoe helping. The 
soft fat is situated at the back of the bone below C; the 
solid fat will be helped with each slice. 



SIRLOfN OF BEEF. 



This should be cut in slices down to the bone, com- 
mencing at the outside^ in the direction of A, B ; cut slices 
from the underpaxt for those who prefer it; with each 
slice help some of the soft fat; the underpart is the nicest 
when eaten hot. 



LEG OF MUTTON. 



The finest slices are situated in the centre; put your 
knife in and cut slices, not too thin, in the direction 
of A, B; if not sufficiently fat, help some slices from the 
broad part of the leg. 



SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 



This is a very nice joint, and by many preferred to the 
leg, there being a greater variety of prime cuts. Com- 
mence at the hollow part, in the direction of A, D, cutting 
quite to the bone; the prime part of the fat is on the 
outer edge, which cut in thin slices in the Hne E; there 
are some nice cuts on the under side. 



BREAST OF VEAL. 



Cut it across quite through, dividing the gristly part 
from the rib bones; the brisket may be cut as wanted, as 
some prefer that pari to the ribs; to divide the ribs put 
the pdmt of your knife in at the top, between any two, 
and press your knife downwards. tiU they are separated. 



PRACTICAL ANI> ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 187 



aUCIGNG-PIC. 

The cook usually divides the body before sending it to 
table, and garnishes the dish with the head and ears; 
separate the shoulder from the body on one side, and then 
the leg in the direction of the dotted line A^ B, c, then 
divide the ribs, and help with plenty of sauce; the joints 
may be divided and helped as you please; the ribs are 
considered the most delicate, but some prefer the neck 
end between the shoulders. 



Have the neck end before you, cut the breast on either 
side in thin slices in the lines of A, b, take off the leg by 
taming the goose upon one side, putting the fork through 
the small part of the leg, and press it down to the body, 
place the knife in at P and raise the joint, pass the knife 
under the leg in the direction of D, E ; take off the wing 
by passing the fork through the small end of the pinion, 
pressing it close to the body; put the knife in at D, and 
cut in the direction C; by doing so you will be en- 
abled to separate the joint^ bufe this, of course, is only 
acquired by practice. When you have taken off the leg 
and wing on one side, do the same on the other ; cut the 
apron across, and help some of the seasoning and gravy to 
each. 

Ducks are carved in the same way. 

ROAST FOWL. 

Fowls require great care in carving as the meat is very 
tender. You should first take off the wing by putting 
the knife in at A, and cut down in the direction of b, 
taking care to divide the joint with your knife; then take 
off the leg by passing the knife between the leg and body 
in the direction c, D, cutting to the bone, then with the 
fork press the leg from the body, and separate the joint 



188 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

with the knife; cut off the merry-thought, put the fork in 
at the side, and twist out the neck-bone; then separate 
the breast from the back by cutting through the rib bones, 
and divide the breast. The wings and breast are con- 
sidered the best parts. 

Boiled fowls are carved in the same way. 

Turkey is carved in the same way as fowls* The breast 
is the part most preferred, and when the company is not 
large, it is sufficient without taking off the limbs. Cut 
the slices very thin, taking care to help seasoning and 
gravy to each. 

HARE. 

The best way to carve a hare is to put the knife in at 
A, near the shoulder, cutting slices in the direction of B, 
and the same on the other side ; then take off the legs by 
fixing the fork in the leg and press it from the body; put 
the point of the knife in at C, and cut in line D; by 
this means you will separate the joint; cut the meat from 
the leg in nice pieces, and cut the chine in pieces. Help 
seasoning and gravy to each person. 

PHEASANT. 

Fix your fork in the breast, cut slices in the direction 
A, B, and take the wings and legs off, as fowls. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Cut off a large wing on either side, then separate the 
breast from the back; this may be cut in two, if large. 

GROUSE 

Are carved in the same way. The back is thought a 
great delicacy by many persons. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 189 



A FEW USEFUL REMARKS TO THE COOK. 

Ths cook having the management of the larder, it is 
in her power to make the most of her mistress's property, 
or to waste it. The former is greatly to her credit, which 
can be done by adopting the following rules : 

When you have a dinner party you should take care of 
the liquor you boil meat, poultry, &c., in, as, after the 
dinner, you can make a good soup with it by adding the 
gravy-meat you made the soup of for your company, the 
remains of cow-heels from the jelly, or any bones and 
cuttings you may have, and a few fresh vegetables and 
herbs. By this means you might send up a nice tureen 
of soup without cost to your mistress. Ii not wanted for 
soup keep it for gravy, as that is the most useful article a 
cook can have in her kitchen ; it will keep for a long time 
by boiling it up every other day. Leave the fat on, as 
that keeps the air from it. 

You can make a nice dish with the cold legs of chicken, 
fowls, or turkey, by rubbing them with pepper and salt. 
Broil them nicely, and send them up with a little gravy. 

Cold meats can be minced, and sent up in scallop-shells 
with a few crumbs of bread on the top, browned before 
the fire. Add a little gravy, pepper and salt to taste. 

Cold potatoes can be mashed, put into a shape, and 
browned before the fire. 

Rice that is left you can warm by putting it into a 
•steamer, or make it into a pudding for the nursery. 

Cold fish, such as cod-fish or turbot, can be warmed up 
as follows : Pick the fish in nice pieces from the bones 
and skin, put it into a basin, place a small plate on the 
top to keep it down, put it into a steamer; half an hour 
will warm it. If you have any sauce left you can warm 
that in the steamer; if not^ melt a little butter, turn the 



190 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

fish out carefully on a dish. Grarnish with a little parsley, 
and send it to table with the sauce. 

Salmon you can pot or pickle. 

Stewed fish you can warm up again. 

Fried fish you can stew in a little gravy, catsup, an- 
chovy, and a spoonful of vinegar. Pepper and ssJt to 
taste. 

The following is a nice way to warm up a cold plum- 
pudding: Cut £he pudding up in dice about an inch 
square, butter a mould or basin, and lay in the pieces of 
pudding, leaving a hollow space between each. Make 
a batter with two eggs, a quarter of a pound of suet 
chopped fine, half a pound of flour, and sufficient milk 
to make it into a batter, pour it into the mould, and let it 
be full, place a piece of buttered paper on the top, and tie 
a cloth over it, steam or boil it for two hours; serve it up 
with brandy sauce. This makes a pretty change. Ox 
you can make up a plum-pudding again in this way: 
W hen it comes from table warm, break it up with a fork, 
beat up one egg, and mix with it, well stining it toge- 
ther. Butter and flour a mould, and put it in agam; 
next day boil it for two hours; send it up hot as before. 
This is a great saving when you have two dinners con- 
secutively. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



BILLS OF EARE. 



JANUARY. 

FAMILY DINNER. j 

^ W Fried Soles. .'I | 



GO 



FAMILY DINNER. 



Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef. 

Bjbhote— Erait Fie. 
O 



g. g Eemoye — Two Boiled Babbits. .^ 

" "^ Marrow Pudding. ^ ^ 



«Q 



Onion Sanoe. >^ 



Boiled Bice in shape. 
1^ ^ Costard Bound. 

|| gl 

B' *p Melted Butter. g [g 

Boiled Leg of Fork. 
Behove — ^Apple Fie. 



Crimped Skate. 

Behove — ^Boast Calf's Heart, Sausages round. 

Ground Bice Budding. 

p ^ Apple Snow. J 

ST g. Gravy. P< 



194 PEACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

JANUARY. 

FAMILY DINNER. 



o 



Pea Sonp. 

Remove — ^Rumpsteak Pudding. 
Yermicelli Pudding. 

Melted Batter. 
^3 . ^ o 

g » Custards in Glasses. ^ ti 

• on ^ r> . 

Sauce. 

Sucking-pig. 
Remove — ^Rhubarb Pie. 



FAMILY DINNER. 



Veal a la Daube. 
Remove— College Puddings. 






^ a Melted Butter. 8 S? 






Fruit Pie. 



o 



g^g Gravy. 8 

Roast Fowls. 
Remove— Scotcli Woodcock. 



o 



TiutencJLL Aim KmomcAh cookest. 1 95 

DINNER FOR TEN OR TWELVE FERSOfNS. 

'Em&l C0T7BS£. 

f 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. 



Cekikb. 






S ? Kemote— Boiled Calf s Head. "^ 

•1 (§ 
I, 

GXVTBX. ^ 

§» I 

«^ -2 2 

O t^ OQ O 

a ?? Ox-tail Soup. §*3 

? g Remove — Roast Fowls. W 

§ Vegetables and Sauces on Side TaUe. g 

^ 33 



Second Coxtbse. 
,3* t* Cabinet Pudding. «; 



t 

Rehote— Muice ffear. 
O 2 



196 PBACnCAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



JANUARY. 

DINNER FOE FOURTEEN OR SIXTEEN 

FEBBONS. 



o 



s 



en 
p 



OB 
CO 




g- 

OB 



aS. Turbot. ^^ 





FiBSI COUBSB. 






Turbot. 




Remote— Boiled Turkey. 


O 




li ^ 


H 




5* 


o 5? 




^H 


if 

5*5 


Cehtre. 


rMoc 
. Side ' 


• g 


Stewed Eels. 


S 



9^ y^m CehTBE. § o §) 



p^ Boned Hare. 

Remove— Ramakins. 






p-» 

00 

^^ Remove— Roast Quarter of Lamb. "^f 

^ Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. ^ 



Second Coubse. 

^g Roast Snipes. -g g 

i- 'S § 

o Remove— Plum Pudding. g f^ 



CQ 



Q Centee. "" g 



^ is 

8 SS 






81 



O ^ 



o 



1^ 



CD 
OB 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 197 



JANUARY. 

DINNER FOR TWELYE OR POURTEEN 

PERSONS. 



2^ g PlBST COTJESB. 

< i- Mock Turtle Soup. 

Remove — ^Boiled Chicken. 



^ Centee. 



Crimped Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

Remove — Saddle of Mutton. 
Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



Second Coubse. 
a* 
r. Q Larded Pheasant. 



3. p Remove — ^Plum Pudding. 



w CD Cenibe. 

CD g 



Three Widgeons. 
Remove— Mince Pies. 



Ts a 


« o 


a o 


o bo 


«H 


•T3 o> 


|W 


^^ 


o^ 


o 


-^ • 


Pi ?3 


c3 H 


S>^ 


1 CO 


5* >^ 


^O 


t— H 


0«*-i 


|>o 


>:» 


:=3 


0) 


Ha 


3 


o 


•-^ 


O 


TS 


«> 


-H • 


d o 


i § 


S o 


Jeh 


• 


^ s 


o S 


r-^ OQ 


Jf§ 


o 



CO 



srH3 



00 



1 



198 PfiACnoa. AND £00KOMICiJ. C00K£B7« 

iAMUAAY. 

DINN3SR FOR TWENTY OR TWENTY-TIFO 

FERS0N8. 

E^W FibstCouesjl iJ 

• ^ Gloucester Salmaa. "Sp^ 

eg Remove— Boiled Leg of House Lamb. QO 

1-9 " Stewed Eels. Cmnwi. Fried Smelts. §« ^3 

^ If Mr 

s ^ § a 

rl '^'^- II 

g g Remove — ^Roast Turkey. ^jA 

^ Vegetables and Sauces on Sideboard. 



Second Coxtese. 
^ g Three Woodcocks. g g 

hj^ Removb— Prince of Wales Padding. g . 









^? ^ S 



§- S-5^ 



?n^ Brace of Pheasants. -^ ]^ 

11 Si 

Remove— Fondu. 



PBAGTIGAL ASTD ECONOMICAL COOKEST. 



199 



GO 
p ri 



I 



BB ST 

3o 



OD 






11 



FEBRUARY AND MARCSH. 

DINNER FOR TWENTY OR TWENTIJFOUR 

PERSONS. 



PlBST CoUBaE. 

Gloucester Salmon. 
Rehoye— Small Boiled Fillet of Veal with Mushroom 



Sauce. 




g 



GO'S 

^S stewed Eeb. Gjsntbe. Fried Whiting. .^H 



<D 



O 



;^ 



Torbot. 

RsMOYE — ^Roast Turkey. 
Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



Sbcoks Coubsb. 
Larded Guinea Fowl. 

Rehotb — ^Lemon Gharlotte. 



Genxbe. 



Ducklings. 



CO cB 
■gOQ 

9 



^^ s 









.So 

09 ^ 



§3 



200 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



FEBRUARY AND MARCH. 

M DINNER FOR EIGHTEEN OR TWENTY 
£ PERSONS. 



wg: 



CD 



• B 




a> 



Centee. 



1^4 



3 "I FiBST Course. „ . 

P |i Turbot. ;l :§ 

2. Q c3 



Remove— Boned Turkey, Tongue inside. ^ ^ 



QD 



SsP ft- o 

"ft. ^^ » Pried Oysters. Cenibx. Smelts. g « -g 

g. Q Stewed Eels. 'S 

p g. Remove — ^Fore-quarter of Lamb. ^ :a 
g «• S^ 

^ Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. ^ 



^ Second Cotjbse. 

ft* 

8 Roast Plovers. g -£ 

^ s I 

^ Remove — ^Apple Charlotte. jg ^ 






I 



m 



. I 



Wild Fowl. ^ »• 

REMOVE— Ramakins* £ ^ 



t 



«* 



CO '^ 
DD 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 201 

FEBRUARY AND MARCH. 

DINNER POR TWELVE OR FOURTEEN 

PERSONS. 



g 




g 



M & 



^ Second Course. 



® Remoyb— Cheese Balls. 



M 



W gt Eebst CotJESE. 

a ? Turbot. 

»■ "^MOVE — ^Boiled Fowls. i 



*l 



1.1 8^1 Centeb. ;i^ I 



OS 



I- ^ Pried Soles, § 



S- Remove — ^Roast Quarter of Lamb. M 

Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



CQ 



,g Larded Guinea Fowl. g* -• 

^Ss Remove— Nesselrode Pudding. g^^g 



|8 



o 

fi 

-I <i.a 



m 



§^ Cbntee. ^J 

?'^ as 



Q 



9<! Wfld-fowL *? 



S 



202 PIUGTI€AL ASa> ECOHOMIGAL O0OKES7. 

FEBRUARY AND MARCH. 

DSiKER EOE MGHT OR TEN PJlB£IO]!i[S. 



FiBST COUBSE. 



^ Mock Turtle Soup. '^ 

e S 

g- Remove— Boiled Chicken aud Tongue between. ^ § 



Gektbs. 



f 



Second Coubsb. 
Roast Plovers. 

§^ Remove — College Puddings. 



C9 



■So 

'g O 



S Turboi; or RriU. ^R 

I Rbmovb— Saddle of Mutton. ^ *3 

Yegetahks and Sauoes on Side Table* 



a f 

I ^ 

GsN'ras. 

I ^ 



I 



GrsenGkioK. 
JLbxovs— MaoaEDm. 



PfiiiGXIGAL AKB ECOJiOMICAL OOQKEKT. 203 

fEBRUART AND MARCH. 

FAMILY DOraER. 



QD 



^ 



Q 
p. 






g 



Gravy Soup. 

g ExvovE — ^Boiled Calf s Head. ^ 

Cabinet Pudding. 



Custards. 



Apple Sauce. 



® Roast Loin of Pork. 

^ Remove — ^Damson Pie. 



EAMUiY DINNER. 



Revoyx — Scotch Woodcock, 



n 



Parsley and Butter. 



s 



f§ 



Ph 



(^ 



Fried Soles. 

a Remove— Two Boiled Rabbits. 

S ^ 

3 Arrowroot Pudding. 2 

f- Liver Saaaoe. ^ 

9 

Open Tourte. 



I 

Gravy. o 

Roast Leg of Mutton. ^ 

^ DO 



204 PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 

FEBRUARY AND MARCH. 

FAMILY DINNER, 



^§ 



BriU. 
Remove— Aitch-bone of Beef. 
^ Lemon Pudding. 



Remove — ^Apple Pie. 



Roast Beef. 



Remove— Macaroni 



CO 

p4 



« 



5* ^i 

Shape of Rice. 
^ Custard Round. 

W^ aa 

3 f^ ^ 



Veal and Ham Pie. P^ 



FAMILY DINNER. 

Clear Soup. 
Remove — ^Fricaseed Rabbits, White. 



Ground Rice Pudding. 

I i 

Fruit Pie. 



I- 



FBACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOEEBT. 



205 



f 



f 



APRIL, MAY, JUNE, AND JULY. 

DINNER FOR TWENTY-TWO OR TWENTY- 
FOUR PERSONS. 



B 

r 

CD 






I 

i. 



FlBST COTTBSE. 

Turban of Salmon with Piquante Sauce. 

Remoyb— Three Boiled Spring Chickens and Tongue, 

same Dish. 






in E 









CD 



t 

O 



s 



v^ §- 

I* 




o 



Q 



Fried 
Smelts. 



Gentbe. 



Stewed 
MuUet. 






Turbot. 

Remove — ^Roast Fore-quarter of Lamb. 
Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



Second Coubse. 

Roast Leveret. 
Remove — ^Nesselrode Pudding. 



go 

OQ 



o 



II 



-g. 






as 



B' 

eg 

"J 

B- 

• CD 

« 

18 



Centbe. 



Ducklings. 
Remove— Fondu. 



mi 

« 

00 






3 



1-3 



ef 



206 FBACmCAIr Ain> ECOKOHICAL COOKZSr. 

MPmty HMY, JUNE, AND JULT. 

DINNER FOR EIGHTEEN OB TWENTY 

FKRSONB. 

^^ Piece of Split SalmoiL '^^ 

03 1. SjEUOinB— Tiiree Boiled Gbdekeiu. ^ 

P_ S-w Stewed r,«^, Ened iJf* ^ 

"^^ gg» Dory. ^*^™- Siiielta |:i 



O 
OD 1= 



WS P 



CO 



GO 



GufiOLS. 



t<<g> Tiirbot. gf 

8-5 Rescoye — Hatincli of Yenison. SH 

'^ Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. *^-g 



^ Second Coubse. 

^1 Pea-fowl. 



5^^ I'ea-rowi. :§ g 

Bekdte — Nesselrode F\idcBiig. m pS 

I 






i- I 



gg] 



1^ 



S g Boast Pigeons. ^^ 

REgQVB^^BIamaltfna. 



PBiLCnCAL AJBTB ECONOKPCAL COOKEBT. 207 

APRIL, MAY, JUNE, AND JULT. 

DINNEE FOB TWELTE OR EOUETEEN 

PEESONS. 

PIH EmTCoUHSE. 

g^S" Soup Julienne. '2 i 

Eemove— Boiled Leg of L^mb. PQjq 



i <^ 

o 5^ 






o 



CD 



u 



^o 



*^ 



^ Turbot. 



t 

?» Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



Second Gotjbse. 
03 UH Bish of Green Peas. 



ig I Rbhotb— Venetian Pudding in Prait Saucr. 

CD P 



CD 
00 

» Cjuiise 

Q 



o]Q Puckfii^. 



0) 

o 
H 



Remove— Eoast Fowls. S -S 



oQPh 



1;^ 
5^ 


Scotch 
Woodcock. 



C3 



M 



Kemoyb — ^Fondu, S ^ 



• 208 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



?3 



APRIL, MAY, JUNE, AND JULY. 

FAMILY DINNER. 



Gravy Soup. 

Remove— Boiled Leg of Pork. 
Custard Pudding. 

Melted Butter. 



apL, 

OQ 



Rhubarb Pie. 



r 

CO 



Melted Butter. 

Roast Loin of Yeal. 
Remove— Macaroni. 



FAMILY DINNER. 



$ 



Small Salmon. 

Remove — Fricaseed Sweetbreads and Mushrooms. 
Jenny Lind Pudding. 

Melted Butter. 



^ o 



^ o 
Ph 



Dressed Salad. 









Mint Sauce. 

Fore-quarter of Lamb. 
REMOVE->-Gooseberry Pie. 



flO 

-9 



i 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



209 



AUGUST, SEPTEMBER, AND OCTOBER. 

DINNER FOR EIGHTEEN OR TWENTY PER- 
SONS. 



r-CD 

g 

o 



o 

B 






FlEST COUESE. 

Stewed Salmon with Piquant Sauce. 

Remove— Two Boned Chickens Braised, and Mushroom 

Sauce. 

CD 

ssS 

CD 



O u 



Pried 
Smelts. 



Centre. 



Stewed 
MuUet. 



pi 
o 

{3 



Turbot. 
Remove— Stewed Shoulder of Venison. 

Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



^ 




Clear Soup wit 

Italian Paste 

on Side Table 


ned Should* 
iamb as Bir 






• 




-+^ 




rS 






.. 


^ 




B 




o 



tZ^CD 



&0 CO 

r^ CD 






Second Course. 
Grouse. 



Remove — ^Nesselrode Pudding. 



Centre. 



.3o 



o 



Ph 



»-» o 

CDV«< 

gCD 
. g 



Larded Capon. 

Remove — Cheese Balls. 

P 



1^ 

PHHa 



210 FBAOEICXAlL AKD <£C0N01fIGllL OOOKEST. 



DINNER 3?0E FOURTEEN OB SEtTEBN PER- 
SONS. 



P p 



1*1 

Q A 



oe 



Second CkumsE. 

Leveret. 

Remove — ^Venetian Pudding with Pruit Sauce 






? PiKST COUBSB. ^ 

§ Q Clear Soup with Vegetables. ^ |g 



g; Remove— CoUared CalTs Head. « 

CO 

§ 

? Centee. -g g 

Is «s 

i S" 

S ^ Split Salmon- ^^ . 

^ ^ Remove — ^Saddle of Lamb. B P^ 

5 OD OD Ph 

^ Vegetables and Sauces on Side TMe. 



«p 



o 

*** ~ « 






gS >^ Centee. 



§ ^ fi 



Ducklings. g 



1 _ 



nUUaCRiAL AKD ECaNOmCiiX <GOOE£Sr. 



211 



OB p, 



DINNER FOR TEN OR TWELTE PERSONS. 



ElBJST COUBSE. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 
Remove— Boiled Eowls and Ton^e between. 



as 



Centre. 



p 
g- 

crQ 

CD ^ 

g » 

o 






Turbot. 

Remove— Saddle of Mutton. 

Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



Second Coubse. 
Jenny Lind Pudding. 



II 



1^ 

a 

0) 

3 



Centre. 



o<1 
B F 



Partridges. 

'RSMJO^TE'— Macanxmi. 
p2 




I 



^ 



212 PRACTICAL ASD ECO^TOMHIAL COOKEST. 

AUGUST, 9EFIWMBER, AND OCTOBER. 

FAMILY DIXSEK- 





Fried Sofcs- 


00 




Snoix— Boiled AitchrbOTe of BceL 


rro 


u 


Bcead-ttDd4mtter Pnddbig. 


-SI 


5 2, 


\r»1tM] 'Rni^«»> 


1 



Q 



Apple Saooe and 6ra?y. 



FAMILY DINNER. 



Boiled BriU. 
^ HzMOVz — ^Boiled Leg of Lamb. 



Salad. 



u 



5" 

S! Boast Goose. J 

Bemoye — ^Frnit Re. o 



Custard Padding. 'oK, 






Caper Sauce. ^^ 



Melted Butter. ^ 



^ JT Collared Breast of Veal. ^ M 

Remove— Damson Pie. 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 213 



NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. 

^ op DINNER FOR TWENTY OR TWENTY-FOUR 

§ % PERSONS. •S ^ 

(5>3 



90 



gi I FiBST Course, §/q 

§ e * Turbot. 



y p Remove— Boiled Turkey. 'S jq 

j_,o- Sot p^ Ehm 

I <d ^e! Soles p,^^,. Fried |^ 

g-g ^r Piquante. ^^^^^- Whiting. 2^ 

o5fe ?g -i^ 2 

g o^ Spitchcock Eels. 

o 09 Remove — ^Haimcli of Mutton. 'S ^ 

^ ^' Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table. 



Second Coubse. 

Roast Pheasants. 

Remove — Marrow Pudding in Shape. 






O 



Centre. ^ 

o 



.& 



q9 Wild Ducks. ^ . |& 

* ' • ^ REMOVE-Fondu. ^^ * 



214 FBACnC&L MJSDt XCOKOBaCAL GOQKEBK. 



^S 



9^ 



,te^ 



It 



3 



I 



»:;■<■; 



mNlOSB KER EIOHTEEN. C»t TWBKlTr IBBr 



S ElBST Ck)UBSB* jS i 



5 3' •s^ 

cTo Stewed Eels. • aS 











^ ^ Tnrbot with Fned> SmeHs round, 

pg, BflHQTB — Siiioin of Bea£. 

^ Yeg^bles^ and Sauces on Side Table. 



Remove — ^Plum Pudding. 



Centbe. 



R&B[a]na'--Eaiufdkans. 



m 




Second Cotjese. 



Pheasants. S £ 



hJO 









f B Wild Fowl. S!^ 






PB2UmCAL AJSD ECONOmCAL CQOKEBX. 



215 



NOVEMBER MHCt DBOOWXfL 

DmNBR roU SIXTEEN OR EIGHTEBN. HBR- 

SONS. 



Qtr' 



a» 






FiBST Coubse: 

Turbot, 

Eexqvv — Stewed Sjunp oC Beef. 



g o 



CD 



Cei^tbb. 



A 
Q 

&C}<U! 
• r* •1-4 



■tJo 



Fried Eillets of Soles. 

Remove— Roast Turkey. 
Vegefealdesand Sauces on SideTahle: 



-3 



o 



g . 

'SI 



Oi 

So 

OQ « 



a 



Sbcond Coitbse. 



s » 



Brace of Woodcocks. 
Remoye — Eve's Budding stuck with Almonds. 






c© a- 

CD: 
00 



Cei^xbs.. 



•I 






CD >— • 

C2C». 



Boned Bare. 
Rehxtfe-— Cheese Balls. 



if- 



216 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



00 



NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. 

DINNER FOR TWELVE OR FOURTEEN PER- 
SONS. 







FlKST COUBSE. 

Crimped Cod's Head and Shoulders. 








REMOVE—Boiled Turkey. 




, Partridge 
Pie. 


Clear Soup on Side 
Table. 


Centre. 


Hare Soup on Side 
Table. 


Sw 




Stewed Eels. 








Remove— Saddle of Mutton. 








Vegetables and Sauces on Side Table 


B 




Second Course. 








Roast Snipes. 




►yeau 
earn. 




Remove— Plum Pudding. 





oa 

§ 

t>0 



GQg 



0) 



^ 



^ o 






CD 
CO 



Centre. 



Ah 
a; 



g? 

•^f? 



Pheasants. 
Remove— Fondu. 



1^ 
H 



PRACTICAL AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 



217 



CO 



NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER. 

DINNER FOR TEN OR TWELVE PERSONS. 



FmST COUBSE. 

Gravy Soup. 
Remove— Collared Breast of Veal in White Sauce. 

Gravy. 



O 



CO o 

e-t- 
cn 



Centbe. 



Gravy. 

Crimped Cod's Head and Shoulders. 
Remove — ^Roast Turkey. 



Second Couese. 



College Pudding. 



I 



CO 

- ?> 



^ 






pa . 



CSKIKE. 






Wild Ducks. 



Remove— Scotch Woodcock. 



& 



i 



2IS 





BnoTK—Bofled ITimrfcle of YeiL 
Bdi^ Poiato Paddnc. 

Panky and Butter. -^ . 

£ Ciuteds* r^i 

s « 

.11 

Omon Sauce. ^ 

Boast Shoulder of Mnttan. 
E£HOY£— Appk Pie. 



PAMBLY BINNSR. 



0c4ail Soup. 
Remove — Fricaseed Rabbits, White. 

Cabinet Padding. ^ g 



Celery in Glass. 



9- M* 



03 



Roast Beef. ^ 



BtBISO^— J 



INDEX. 



BiLLB of fare, 191 
Batter, to clarify, 6 

Cakes, Brbas» &c.: — 
ObserratioiLsi upon cakes, 128 
Bride cake, 128 
Almond icing, for bride cake, 

129 
Sugar icing for biide cake^. 129 
Fbundcake, 130 
Plain cake, 130 
Bich seed cafee^ 130 
Soda cake, 131 
Savoy cake, 131 
Macaroons, 131 
Rice cake, 132^ 
Batafias, 13& 
Shrewsbury cakes^ 133 
Queen oriseS) 138 
Bath buns or cakes, 133 
Drop biscuits, 134 
Bread dough cake, 134 
Bout cakes, 164 
Biscuits to est with cheese^ 134 
Yorkshire cakes, 135 
Cinnamon cakes, 135 
Jumbles, 135 
Gingasbzfiad,, 136, 
Ginger nuts, 136 
Busks, ld6> 
Queen's dn>p%. 101 
Buns^ 137 
Tea Crumpets, 137 
MuflSm^ 138 

Milk, bnoad and rolls, 138 
Cakes for breakfast, 138 
Bread, 139 
Rice bread. 139 



Carving : — 
Observations on carving; 184 
Cod's head, 184 
Boiled salmon, 184 
Turbot, 184 

Saddle or chine of mutton* 184 
Haunch of venisfin.or mutton, 

185 
Fore-quarter of lambj. 135 
Filletof veal, 185. 
Ham, 185 

Aitchbone of beef; 186 
Sirloin of bee^ 186 
Leg of mutto% L86 
Shoulder of mutton, 186 
Breast of veal, 186 
Sucking-pig^ 187. 
Goose, 187 
Roast fowl, 187 
Hare, 18a 
Pheasant, 188 
Partridge,, 18& 
Grouse, 13£K 

Caudles, GBXJEiLr &o*:t-^ 
Rice caudle, Ifir 
Rice milk,. 168^ 
Artificwl asa^ft milk,, 1 6a 
Grit gruel, 168 
Water gruel, ISSi 
Arrowroot, 168 
Tapioca, 169 
Sago, 169 
Sweet panada^ 1.69 
Chicken panada, 169 
Barley water; 1£9- 
Apple watery 170.' 
Toast-and-water, 170 



220 



INDEX. 



Fish : — 
To choose: — 
Salmon, 1 
Cod, 1 
Soles, 2 
Skate, 2 
Mackerel, 2 
Whitings, 2 
Smelts, 2 
Mullets, 2 
Herrings, 2 
Pike, 2 
Carp, 3 
Tench, 3 
Eels, 3 
Lobsters, 3 
Crabs, 3 
Prawns, 4 
Shrimps, 4 
Oysters, 4 
Observations on dressing, 4 
Boiled turbot, 4 
Boiled salmon, 5 
Broiled salmon, 5 
Potted salmon, 5 
Potted lobster, 5 
Potted shrimps, 5 
Stewed salmon, with piquant 

sauce, 6 
Collared salmon, 6 
Pickled salmon, 6 
Cod, 7 

Dressed salt cod, 7 
Roast sturgeon, 7 
Dressed sturgeon, 7 
Stewed sturgeon, 7 
Crimped skate, 8 
Stewed carp, 8 
Baked carp, 8 
Perch or tench, 8 
Fried trout and grayling, 9 
Mackerel, 9 
Red mulle^ 9 
Baked pike, 9 
Haddocks, 9 
Soles, 10 
Stewed soles, Portuguese wa j, 

10 
Fried smelts, 10 
Spitchcock eels, 10 



Fried eels, 11 

Stewed eels, II 

Roast eel, 11 

Collared eel, II 

Water souchej, 12 

Herrings, 12 

Sprats, 12 

Lobster cutlets, 12 

Lobster quenel, 13 

Roast lobster, 13 

Curried lobsters or prawns, 13 

Crawfish, 13 

Lobster salad, 13 

Buttered prawns or shrimps, 

14 
Hot crab, 14 
Dressed crab cold, 15 
Scalloped oysters, 15 
Stewed oysters, 15 
Fried oysters, 15 
Pickled oysters, 15 
To fry fish Jewish fashion, 16 

Home-made Wines: — 
Black currant wine, 171 
Green gooseberry wine, 171 
Elder flower wine, 172 
Ginger wine, 172 
Damson wine, 172 
English sherxy, 172 
Red currant wine, 173 
Grape wine, 173 
Raspberry wine, 173 
Elder wine, 174 
Raisin wine, 174 
Orange wine, 174 
Lemon wine, 175 

Ices : — 
Obseryations on dessert ices, 

113 
Lemon water ice, 1 13 
Orange water ice, 1 14 
Currant, cherry, or raspberry 

ice, 1 14 
Raspberry cream ice, 114 
Nesselrode or ice pudding, 114 

Management of a daury, 176 



INDEX. 



221 



Meats: — 
Observations on boiling and 

roasting joints, 26 
To dress venison, 27 
Stewed shoulder of venison, 28 
Stewed breast of venison and 

peas, 28 
Beef:— 

Stewed rump of beef, 28 

Stewed brisket of beef, 29 

Stewed silver side of the 
round, 29 

Collared piece of beef, 30 

Grood way to roast a piece of 
beef, 30 

Fricandeau of beef, 30 

Beef-en-Meroton, 30 

Beef olives, 31 

Humpsteak and oyster sauce, 
31 

Beef cakes for a comer dish, 
31 

Beef palates, 31 

To dress cold beef, or any 
kind of meat, called Cecils, 
32 

Collared palates, 32 

Hashed beef, 32 

Minced beef, 33 

Bullock's heart, 33 

Boiled heart, 33 

Nice way to dress cold salt 
beef, called bubble - and - 
squeak, 33 

Marrow bones, 34 

Ox feet or cow heels, 34 

To dress an ox cheek, 34 

Potted beef, 34 
Veal:— 

To dress a fillet of veal, 35 

Knuckle of yeal, 35 

Roast shoulder of veal, 36 

Neck of veal, 36 

Breast of veal collared, 36 

To ragout a breast of veal, 36 

Chump of veal li-la-daube, 37 

Haricot of veal, 37 

Fricandeau of veiU, 37 

Scallops of cold veal, 38 

Veal olives, 38 



Scotch collops, 38 
Veal cakes, 39 
Savottxy dish of veal, 39 
Sweetbreads k-la-daube, 39 
Sweetbreads fricaseed brown, 

40 
Sweetbreads fricaseed white, 

40 
Nice way to dress a fillet of 

veal, 40 
Boast calTs heart, 40 
Potted veal, 41 
Mutton : — 
Leg of Mutton, 41 
To dress a haunch of mutton, 

41 
Boast shoulder of mutton, 42 
To dress a breast of mutton, 

42 
Boast saddle of mutton, 42 
Neck of mutton, 42 
Loin of mutton, 42 
Boiled loin of mutton, 42 
Mutton kebobbed, 43 
Lamb: — 
Fore quarter of lamb, 43 
Leg of lamb, 43 
Breast of lamb boned, 44 
Shoulder of lamb forced, with 

sorrel sauce, 44 
Lamb cutlets, 44 
To dress a lamb's head and 

purtenance, 44 
To dress lamb's fry, 45 
Boned shoulder of lamb as a 

duck, 45 
Pork:— 
Boast leg of pork, 46 
Spring of pork, 46 
Boast sparerib or grlskin, 46 
Boast sucking-pig, 46 
To dress petitoes, 47 
Boiled leg of pork, 47 
Collared pig's head, 47 
Boast porker's head, 48 
To dress a pig's head in imi- 

tation of boar's head, 48 
Mock brawn, 48 
Pig's feet and ears fricaseed, 

49 



222 



IKI>EX. 



To cure hams, 49 

Higli-flavonrod haniB, 50 

Bacon, 50 

To pickle poric, 50 

To pidde ox taogneB, 50 

Sausages, 51 

Bladk<>piiddiiigB, 51 

FiGKDES : — 

Gherkins, 140 

Cucumbers in slices, 140 

Mangoes, 141 

French beans, 141 

Walnuts, 142 

Bed cabbage, 142 

Onions, 142 

Oanliflowers, 149 

NiBtartiuras, 143 

PiccaUilly, 143 

Barbeixies, 144 

Mushrooms, 144 

Mushrooms, fazoim, 144 

Mushroom catsup, 14S 

Walnut cat8iq>, 146 

Sauce to eat with coldmeHtB, 146 

Bengal chitn67, 1^ 

Carrach, or ladiBn waue for 

gxavies, 146 
IFomato sauce, 146 
Tomatoes, 147 
Samphire, 147 
Q?anigoii TiBegar, 147 
Mushroom powder, 148 

Pnfi, PuDmNGB, iasn> Pabtkt: — 
Sayoury Pies and Puddings, 

66 
Pies: — 

Pigeon pie,' 66 

Btdibit pie, '67 

Thstched H0iiBe'pie,<e6 

Veal pie, €7 

Veal olive pie, 67 

Bused ^eieU pie, 67 

Mutton pie, 66 

JLifludbple, B8 

XJbicken-pie, 68 

Bump or beefistwk ^ S69 

Qmat pie, 69 

Partridge pie, 69 



Hare pie, 69 

Devonshire squab pie, 70 
Cheshire pork pie, 70 
Herb pie, 70 
Book pie, 71 
Eel Pie, 71 
Lobster pie, 71 
Salmon pie, 71 
Mackerel pie, 72 
Puddings, &c. : — 
Ofosenrations on Puddings, 

72 
Orouse pudding, 72 
Lark pudding, 73 
Bumpsteak pudding, 73 
Baked ditto, 73 
Baked mutton -pudding, 73 
Almond pudding, 73 
Batter pudding to eat like 

custard, 74- 
Potato pudding, 74 
Eve's pudding, 74 
Chesnut puddling, 75 
Baked lemon pudding, 75 
BoSed ditto, 75 
Marrow pudding, 75 
Sago pudding, 76 
Citron puddings ^in cops, to 

turn out, 76 
Boiled rice pudding, 76 
Arrowroot pudding, 77 
Yorkshire pudding to l)ake 

under a joint of meat, 77 
Suet pudding, 77 
Boiled apple pudding, 77 
Oround Tice pudding, 78 
Oxfcnrd dumplings, 78 
Cabinet pudding, 78 
Bread-and-butter pudding,78 
little castle puddings, 79 
Apple Chariotte, 79 
Xmon Charlotte, 79 
Carrot Charlotte, €0 
^Bieh phim-puddiBg, 60 
Plain plmn-pudding, 60 
l?i>ince*of Wales pudding, 81 
Macaroni pudding, 91 
Treacle pudding, 61 
Baked treacle pudding ^82 
Baked rice pudding, 82 



TUBES.. 



Yeneiian pudding, to eat 

cold, 82 
Jenny Lind pudding, 82 
Snowbalb, 83 
Spanish Polb, 83 
Fancakee and Frittea : — 
ObsennationB on fiying pan- 

cakes and fritters, 84 
Good pancakes, 84 
Plainer sort of pancake, 84 
Plain Mttera, 84 
Apple fritten, 85 
Fine fritter, 85 
Orange or lemon fiitten, 85 
Pastry : — 

Obserrations on pastry, 85 
Bich puff paste, 86 
A less rich paste, 86 
Good short ismst, 86 
Fruit pies, 67 
Tourtes, 87 
Mince pies, 88 
Cheesecakes, 88 
Lemon cheesecakea, 89 
Potato cheeaeeakes, 89 
Orange cheesecakes, 89 
Bioh paste fior «nall taxta, 69 
Oyster patties, 90 
Lobster patties, 90 
Chicken potties, 90 
Veal and ham -patties, 91 
Sweet patties xesemUixig 

mince pies, 91 
Fried patties, 91 
Vol-au-Tent, or loxge putty, 

91 
Oyster loaires, 92 
Mushroom loarai, 912 
Savoury omelet, 92 
Asparagus omelet, 98 
Scotch woodeock, 98 
Koast cheese, 93 
Boiled macaioni, 93 
Fondue, 94 
Bamakins, 94 
Timble of macarani, 94 
Puffs, 95 
Bice puffs, 95 
Wafers, 95 
Flirts, 95 



Gauffres, 96 
Custards, 96 
Phdner custndi, 96 
Lemon cuitaid, 96 
Baked cmtaidt 07 

PouLTBT, Game, &a>— 
Directions tor dnefwhig, 52 
Boast Turkey, 52 
Boiled turkey, 58 
Boned turk^, 53 
Boiled fowls, 58 
Boast fowls, 58 
Forced fowl, 54 
Chickens firieoseed white, 54 
Chickens fricaaeed tooHD, 54 
Curried chicken, 54 
Braised chicken, 55 
Boast "goose, 55 
(Boast docfee,. 56 
Stewed duck, 56 
Stewed docks irith gaoan >#eas, 

56 
To hudi cold doQki, 96 
iBoaat wild dudes, 57 
Salmi of wild fowl, 57 
Boost pigeons, 57 
Stewed pigeons, 57 
Boned pigeoiu, 57 
Babbits, 58 

Babbit Mcoaoed brown, 58 
Babbit.fincaaeed wiilte, fiS 
Babbit cotlata, 59 
Salmi of pigeona, 59 
BroMed pigeooa, 60 
Potted pigei»«,-60 
Potteddhicken, 60 
Fried rabbit, 60 
Boast hnre, 61 
Jugged hare, 61 
Collared hare, 62 
To dress a fawn, 62 
Potted partridge- or gBonos, 62 
Potted hare, 63 
Potted Yenison, 63 
Pheasants and:paBtild0BB, 63 
Grouse, 63 
Woodcocks, anipea, 4Bid spalls, 

64 
Buffs and reeves, 64 



224 



INDEX. 



Plovers, 64 
Ptarmigans, 64 
Roast larks, 64 
Guinea and Pea-fowl, 64 
Grame or French pie, 64 

Pbeserving: — 
Observations on preserving, 115 
Preserved apricots, 115 
Preserved apricots, whole, 116 
Red currant jelly, 116 
Raspberry jam, 117 
Raspberry jelly, 117 
Strawberry jam, 117 
Black currant jelly, 117 
Black currant jam, 118 
Cherry jam, 118 
Dried cherries, 118 
Cherries in brandy, 118 
Preserved strawberries, whole, 

119 
Gooseberry jam, 119 
Preserved green gooseberries in 

imitation of hops, 119 
Preserved greengages, whole, 

120 
Preserved magnum bonum 

plums, 120 
Orange marmalade, 121 
Preserved oranges carved, 121 
Quince marmalade, 122 
Preserved quinces whole, 122 
Apple marmalade, 123 
Damson cheese, 123 
Preserved pine-apple, 124 
. Compote of apple, 124 
Bottled fruit for winter use, 

124 ^ 

Raspberry vinegar, 125 
Lemonade, 125 
Imperial water, 126 
Orangeade, 126 
Cherryade, 126 
Orgeat, 127 

Salad dressing, 14 
Sauces: — 

Celery sauce, 158 

Onion sauce, 168 

Apple sauce, 158 



Cucumber sauce, 159 
Bread sauce, 159 . 
White sauce, 159 
Melted butter, 159 
Caper sauce, 160 
Mock caper sauce, 160 
Horseradish sauce, 1 60 
Parsley and butter, 160 
Liver sauce, 160 
Egg sauce, 161 

Green sauce for green goose, 161 
Mint sauce, 161 
Shalot sauce, 161 
Mushroom sauce, 161 
Piquante sauce, 162 
Lobster sauce, 162 
Oyster sauce, 162 
Shrimp sauce, 163 
Anchovy sauce, 163 
Jersey sauce, 163 
Browning, 163 
Glaze, 164 
Forcemeat, 164 
Veal stuffing, 164 
Forcemeat balls, 165 
Egg balls, 165 
To dress eggs for lent, 165 
Forced eggs, 166 
Mixed eggs, 166 
Poached eggs, 166 
Fried ham and eggs, 166 
Boiled eggs, 167 
Boiled rice, 167 
Soups and Gravies: — 
Observations on, 17 
Mock turtle soup, 17 
Mulligatawny soup, 18 
Partridge soup, 18 
Julienne soup, 18 
Hare soup, 19 
Giblet soup, 19 
White soup, 20 
Oyster soup, 20 
Carrot soup, 21 
Vegetable soup, 21 
Old pea soup, 21 
Grouse soup, 21 
Macaroni soup, 22 ' 
Ox-tail soup, 22 
Green pea soup, 22 



INDEX. 



225 



Fine white sonp, called Pales- 

tine, 23 
Scotch broth, 23 
Mutton broth, 23 
Beef tea, 24 
Chicken broth, 24 
Brown gravy, 24 
Cheap grary, 24 
White gravy, 25 
Gravy without meat, 25 

Sweet Dishes, &c. — 
Sweet macaroni, 98 
Gooseberry fool, 98 
Apple fool, 99 
Trifle, 99 
Apple trifle, 99 
Lemon whips, 99 
Raspberry whips, 100 
Flummery, 100 
Lemon cream, 100 
Raspberry cream, 100 
Stone cream, 101 
Wellington custard, 101 
Lemon sponge, 101 
Blanc-mange, 102 
Jaune-mange, 102 
Fine-apple cream, 102 
Ginger cream, 103 
Orange cream, 103 
Vanilla cream, 103 
Noyeau cream, 103 
Burnt cream, 104 
Cofiee cream, 104 
Tea cream, 104 
Charlotte k la Busse, 104 
Calf s-foot jelly, 105 
Hartshorn jelly, 105 
Lemon jelly, 106 
Grange jelly, 106 
Clear orange jelly, 106 
Cranberry jelly, 107 
Apple jelly, 107 
Tapioca jelly, 107 
Strengthening jelly, 107 
Savoury jelly for cold meat 

pies, 108 
To prepare colourings to stain 

jellies, creams, and ices, 109 
Stewed pippins, whole, 109 



Stewed pears, 109 
Devonshire junket, 110 
Stewed prunes, 110 
Staffordshire syllabub, 110 
Lemon honeycomb 110 
Chantilly cake. 111 
G&teau de Foletain, 111 
Tipsy cake, 112 
A hen's nest in jelly, 112 

Trussing and Boning Foul- 
tky: — 

Turkey for roasting, 177 

Turkey for boiling, 178 

Boned turkey, 178 

Turkey poult, 178 

Fowl or chicken for roasting, 
179 

Fowl or chicken for boiling, 179 

Goose, 179 

Ducks, 180 

Wild fowl, 180 

Woodcocks and snipes, 180 

Pheasants and partridges, 180 

Pigeons, 181 

Larks, 181 

Hare, 181 

Boned hare, 182 

Rabbit to boil, 183 
Useful remarks to the cook, 189 

Vegetables: — 
Remarks upon dressing, 149 
Boiled cauliflowers, 1 49 
Stewed cauliflowers in white 

sauce, 149 
Mashed parsnips, 150 
Seakale, 150 
Boiled brocoli, 150 
Boiled broad beans, 150 
Boiled French beans, 151 
Boiled peas, 151 
Stewed green peas, 151 
To dress carrots, 151 
Boiled turnips, 151 
Stewed red cabbage, 152 
To dress potatoes, 152 
To dress new potatoes, 152 
Mashed potatoes, 152, 153 
Pretty dish of potatoes, 152 



226 



INDEX. 



Scalloped potatoes, 153 
Potato chips, 153 
Peach potatoes, 153 
Boiled artichokes, 154 
Jerusalem artichokes, 154 
Stewed cucumbers, 154 
Boiled vegetable marrow, 154 
To dress asparagus, 155 
Stewed Spanish onions, 155 
Spanish onions stewed white, 
155 



Celery stewed white, 155 
Celery stewed brown, 156 
Stewed carrots, 156 
Stewed cardoons, 156 
Stewed beetroot, 156 
Stewed sorrel for fricandeaii, 157 
To dress spinach and eggs, 157 
To dress artichoke bottoms with 
eggs, 157 



THE EyD. 



C. WHITINO, BEAUFORT HOUSE, STBAND. 



