Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



eoooB6ei2v 



1 



THE AMEBICAN STBANGER'S GTJDE 



TO 



LONDON iND LIVERPOOL 

AT TABLE. 



HOW TO DINE AND ORDER A piNNER; 
AND WHERE TO AVOID DINING. 



WITH PRACTICAL HINTS TO BUTLERS AND COOKS. 



TO WHICH IB AFPEITDED * 



THE KOYAL YACHT SQUADRON STEWARD'S MANUAL, 
AND RECEIPTS WITH TRUISMS FOR THE MILLION. 



FOURTH EDITION. 



LONDON : 

LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, AND ROBERTS. 

WEBB AND HUNT, LIVERPOOL. 
MDCCCLIX. 



^ / 



/iCi ^ 



DEDICATED TO 

SIR JOHN BAYLEY, Bart., 

(B. Y. S. C. NYMPH,) 
^ • BY / • 

AN OLD FRIEND. 



LONDON AND LIVEEPOOL AT TABLE. 



PART FIRST. 



The events connected with the Great Exhibition of 
1851 wlQ no doubt be described by the writers of history 
as amongst the most remarkable in the annals of the 
day. Tens of thousands, not only of oiu* country popu- 
lation, but of foreigners, will be attracted to this Mon- 
ster Cosmopolitan Polytechnic; — even Stoics will be 
drawn to the magic scene, in imitation of Socrates, who 
when once detected at a great ** Fair," excused himself 
by saying " he only came to see how many things there 
were in the world he did not require,** 

It is to be hoped that, however imfavourably at pre- 
sent the productions of our own artisans may contrast with 
the gorgeous fabrics of other nations, the morals of the 
people of England will attract the marked commen- 
dation of strangers, and that ultimately the industry 
and welfare of the cotrntry will be promoted. 



6 LONDON AND UYEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

Perfect as the arrangements appear to be for the 
reception of the productions of all nations, — " London 
and Liverpool at Table : how to dine and order a 
dinner/' will perhaps be received by strangers as an 
acceptable contribution. 

It is not necessary, in this enlightened age, to de- 
nounce the licentiousness of the Bomans, which fore- 
shadowed the decline and fall of the empire ; while, on 
the other hand, it is pardonable to hold with the great 
lexicographer. Dr. Johnson, " that cookery is one of the 
arts that aggrandise life; and that the masticational 
duties are those that we ought carefully to attend to." 
Even the Miser, in Moliere, say^ " you must eat to live, 
and not live to eat" 

The abundant means of living, and of food provided 
for the use of the human race, is as follows : — ** Every 
herb bearing seed," say the Scriptures, " and every tree 
which is the fruit of the tree yielding seed, was given to 
man;" and to Noah and his sons the words went forth, 
** Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you : 
even as the green herb have I given you all things." 
But mark well, reader, these abundant gifts were for 
man's use, and not for man's abuse. 

Strangers in London, with money at command to dine 
when, where, and how it may suit their fiBinoy, can 
always gratify their propensities in reason, but those 
whose palate is their only thought, must be left to the 
self-inflicted torments which their voluptuousness and 
selfishness are sure to entail. 

In London, how and where to dine must, in a great 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 7 

measure, depend on the day's and evening's amusement. 
K business require attendance in the city, or pleasure to 
the opera or theatre, a spot suitable to the neighbour- 
hood should be selected If the digestive organs are 
somewhat impaired, a light French dinner is preferable 
to a substantial English one ; if, on the contrary, a man 
has been taking strong exercise all day, and has the 
appetite of a Saxon, our indigenous dishes of beef-steaks 
and mutton chops will be duly appreciated, and can be 
obtained at a moderate price at any of the numerous 
restaurants and chop-houses wliich now abound. 

To a party made up in a hurry to go to the theatre, 
nothing can be better than " Glunn's Hotel," in Govent 
Garden. 

The stranger cannot go wrong in ordering a clear 
soup ; the freshest fish of the day (for it ought to be an 
invariable rule never to order any particular fisk, but to 
name what isprrferredy leaving it to the fishmonger to send 
the latest arrival from the sea-side J ; a plain joint, with a 
marrow bone, or oyster toast when in season, and no 
sweets. 

The '' Blue Posts," in Cork Street, is a very snug place 
during the Winter for a dinner of four, in the small 
private parlour on the ground floor. For fish, a rump 
steak, and boUed beef, it cannot be surpassed; the wines 
are good, and the gin-punch perfection. The two cofPee- 
rooms are extremely convenient for parties wishing their 
dinner in a hurry. The rooms are primitive and charac- 
teristic. The joints are artistically carved in the room 
by the waiter, and not jagged about ''dogs's meat 



8 LONDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

fashion"' by the guests; the port wine is brought up in 
the ** black bottle,** by which means the quantity, if not 
the quality, is supplied. This is honest — provided the 
bottle is imperial measure and not one of the cheap 
wine merchant's bottles, that run sixteen to what twelve 
fair jurymen*s bottles are only intended by act of 
parliament to hold ; that is, where one dozen is charged 
when the purchaser only receives nine in reality. 

The City Chop Houses, for a chop, or a steak, or a 
"cut direct" from the joint, with well boiled mealy 
potatoes, and excellent porter, are very good; and 
excellent wine in wood is to be had at the London 
Bridge Shades. 

To return to the West End. The "Clarendon** and 
" Grillion*s'* are most celebrated, both in the coffee and 
private rooms. Some "Nuggets,** as the fast young 
men of the day term " money,'* are necessary, if an 
whliwited order be gwen; hut a dinner in the best style 
can be had at a proportionate eost^ and with more satis- 
faction to aU parties. All depends on the order given per 
hemd. This remark equally applies to Greenwich, 
Blackwall, and Bichmond. 

A want of long standing still exists in London — and 
that is, the difficulty of finding Bestaurants where 
strangers of the gentler sex may be taken to dine. It is 
true that some have been opened where gentlemen may 
take their wives and daughters; but it has not yet become 
a recognised custom, although at Blackwall, Greenwich, 
Hampton Court, Windsor, Slough, Bichmond, ladies 
are to be found as in the Parisian Cafes, and in London 



LONDON AND MVERPOOL AT TABLE.' 9 

at "Verey's," in Pall Mall and Eegent Street; but to 
give a private dinner with ladies, it is necessary to go to 
the " Albion " or " London Tavern," where nothing can 
exceed the magnificence of the rooms. The waiting is 
perfection ; price in accordance to the order given per 
head. 

The club houses of London will naturcJly attract the 
attention and curiosity of strangers. Addison, in the 
''Spectator," describes the clubs of his day; and 
although the description may appear to be a little 
exaggerated, it will furnish some insight into the origin 
of the reunions of more than one hundred and fifty 
years ago. 

''Man is said to be a social animal; and as an 
instance of it we may observe, that we take all occasions 
and pretences of forming ourselves into those litde 
nocturnal assemblies, which are commonly known by 
the name of clubs. When a set of men find themselves 
agree in any particular, though never so trivial, they 
establish themselves into a kind of fraternity, and meet 
once or twice a week upon the account of such a fan- 
tastic resemblance. I know a considerable market town 
in which there was a club of fat men, that did not come 
together (as you may well suppose) to entertain one 
another with sprightliness and wit, but to keep one 
another in countenance. The room where the club met 
was something of the largest, and had two entrances, 
one by a door of moderate size, and the other by a pair 
of folding doors. If a candidate for this corporate club 
could make his entrance through the first, he was looked 



10 LONDON AND UVEBPOOL AT TABU:. 

upon as unqualified ; but if he stuck in the passage, and 
could not force his way through it, the folding doors 
were immediately thrown open for his reception, aod he 
was saluted as a brother." 

The first Club House in this country was the Athe- 
nsBum, established at Liverpool by the celebrated Mr. 
Boscoe. It was opened on the first of January, 1800, 
with a coffee-room, reading-room, and library, limited to 
500 members. Each member was obliged to become a 
proprietor of a share, and to pay an annual subscription. 
Two years' arrears of subscription involved the forfeiture 
of the share, which reverted to the Club, and was sold to 
a new member. The shares are property, and can be 
sold on the death or retirement of a proprietor. By this 
mode of raising the capital the Club started clear of any 
mortgage debt, and the annual income was secured for 
ever. In course of time the coffee-room was given up. 
The Library has cost ^20,000, and contains many rare 
books, while the reading room is quite equal to that of 
any modem London Club. 

In 1815 Lord Lynedock paid a visit to Liverpool, and 
was greatly struck with the Laws of the Institution, 
which are a modification of the written constitution of 
the United States. He requested to be furnished with 
a copy, intending to establish a similar Club in London 
for military and naval officers ; the result was the 
" Senior United Service Club." The " Athenaeiun," 
** TraveUers/' and others, too numerous to mention, 
followed. 

Mr. Walker, the celebrated author of the " Original," 



LONDON AND UTEBPOOL AT TABLE. 11 

gives the following graphic account of the London 
Clubs. " One of the most important modem changes 
in society is the present system of Clubs. The 
fELcilities of living have been wonderfully increased 
by them in many ways, whilst the expense has 
been greatly diminished. For a few potmds a year, 
advantages are to be enjoyed which no fortunes except 
the most ample can procure. I can best illustrate 
this by a particular instance. The only club I belong 
to is the ' Athenaeum/ which consists of twelve himdred 
members. . . . For six guineas a year every member 
has the command of an excellent library, with maps; 
the daily papers, English and Foreign; the principal 
periodicals, and every material for writing, with attend- 
ance for whatever is wanted. The building is a sort of 
palace, and is kept with the same exactness and comfort 
as a private dwelling. Every member is a master, 
without any of the trouble of a master. He can come 
when he pleases, and stay away as long as he pleases, 
without anything going wrong. He has the command 
of regular servants, without having to pay or manage 
them. He can have whatever meat or refreshment he 
wants, at all hours, and served up with the cleanliness 
and comfort of his own house. He orders just what he 
pleases, having no interest to think of but his own : in 
short, it is impossible to suppose a greater degree of 
liberty in living. Clubs, as far as my observation goes, 
are favourable to economy of time. There is a fixed 
place to go to ; everything is served with comparative 
expedition; and it is not customary or general to remain 



1^ LONDON AND LIVEEPOOL AT TABLE. 

long at table. They are favourable to temperance, It 
seems that when people can freely please themselves, 
and when they have an opportunity of living simply, 
excess is seldom committed. From the account I have 
of the expenses at the * Athenaeum' in the year 1832, it 
appears ' that 17,823 dinners cost on the average 2«. 9(2. , 
3«., and 4s. 6d. each ; that the average quantity of wine 
for each person was a small fraction more than half 
a pint.' " 

Since the above essay was written, clubs have 
increased greatly. An anecdote is recorded of a mem- 
ber, who went upon the most approved Archimedean 
aerew principle, and who managed to economise even to 
meanness. He would order his lunch ten minutes 
before the hour for that meal to elapse, and maike a 
dinner of it. He would desire the waiter to bring him 
a cup of tea hot and strong; this beverage being a 
fraction cheaper if served in that manner than from the 
teapot No sooner had the cup been brought than the 
" artful dodger" complained of the strength, ordered 
some hot water and a clean cup, and by dividing half 
procured two good cups of tea at half price. A great 
public benefit has been introduced into the principal 
clubs of London— the power of inviting a friend or two 
to dinner in the stranger^s room : and there are many, 
who, having benei&tted considerably by this system, not 
only in giving, but receiving such a courtesy, appreciate 
those establishments where the doors are not barred 
against non-members at a house dinner, or singly with a 
member. 



LONDON AND LIVEEPOOL AT TABLE. 13 

The usual plan is for a number of members to put 
down their names for a house dinner, and those of the 
invited guests, leaving. it, of course, optional for any 
member to join the party. A president and vice-presi- 
dent are elected, and the repast is all that can be desired; 
it combines English and French cookery, the choicest 
wines, and the best waiting. 

The " Oriental Club," in Hanover Square, is famed 
for its Eastern condiments. 

The " Reform " is known to the world at large as 
being the club where Soyer presided for so long a period. 
It was the talented Alexis who reformed the antiquated 
excrescences and abuses of the kitchen. Gould any 
patriot bum with more devoted and intense zeal for the 
public good than did Soyer? Are not good diurnal 
dinners better than sessional long speeches? Is not 
univepal fare better than universal suffrage? We appeal 
to all England for their verdict. The members are more 
numerous than select, as all political clubs must be. 

Three clubs are especially devoted to our gallant 
preservers by sea and land, — the " United Service," the 
"Army and Navy," in Pall Mall, and the "Junior 
United." 

The " Beefsteak Club *' had a great reputation. The 
room, built for the purpose in the English Opera 
House, the kitchen only separated by a glass screen ; 
the original gridiron of the society ; the quaint mottoes 
on the walls, " When 'tis done, 'twere well it were done 
quickly ;" — " Now good digestion wait on appetite, 
and health on both ;" the cook with his snow-white 



14 LONDON AND UYEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

jacket, apron, and cap ; the absurdity of the laws; the 
freedom of speech, added to a steak such as could only be 
had there, and port wine of the finest quality : all united 
to make the hours fly fast Of the great wits who once 
were wont " to set the table in a roar," few now remain ; 
but the world circles on, and they are replaced, or at 
least substitutes are found equally delightful to the 
present race, as their predecessors were to the last 
generation. 

It would be obviously incorrect to obtrude into any 
particular private houses. Where you ought to dine, and 
where you ought not to dine, only requires classification. 
The classes commence with Royal Banquets, Lord Mayor 
and Ministerial Dinners, the well-mounted aristocratic 
entertainments, those of the untitled gentry, and the 
snug party of six or eight at the bachelor's house or 
chambers. 

The Ascot dinner in St. George's Hall, Windsor 
Castle, is a truly royal banquet The hall itself is 
upwards of two hundred feet in length, and about 
thirty.five in width. The ceiling is in compartments, 
whereon are emblazoned the armorial bearings of the 
Knights of the noble Order of the Garter, from its first 
institution. Edward the Third, and his son, the Black 
Prince, in complete suits of armoiu', occupy the corbels, 
and the walls are ornamented with portraits of our 
monarchs, from the first James to the last George. 
Along the sides of the hall, the arms of the different 
knights shine forth on shields ; and the cross of our 
patron saint, encircled by the motto *' Honi soit qui mal 



LONDON AND LIVEBFOOL AT TABLE. 15 

y pense/' fill the other spaces of this splendid apartment. 
At each are two nohle sideboards, seventeen feet in 
height and forty in breadth, covered with crimson cloth, 
set in Gothic framework of the chastest carving, with 
brackets upon which the massive gold plate is arranged. 
Immediately opposite the seat appropriated to Her 
Majesty is the celebrated tiger's head, captured at 
Seringapatam ; over it the Uuma, formed of precious 
stones, presented to George the Third by the late 
Marquis of Wellesley. Above the Uuma is a cup 
formed of a shell, mounted in gold and silver, sur* 
mounted by the figure of Jupiter, resting on the imperial 
bird, the base supported by Hippocampi ; several vases 
of ivory, and the national cup, with figures of St George, 
St. Andrew, and St. Patrick, and other respective 
emblems, set in rare jewels. The table for a hundred, 
which occupies nearly the whole length of the room, la 
ornamented with epergnes, vases, and candelabras. One 
of the latter, called the St. George, is, perhaps, one of 
the most splendid specimens of modem plate in the 
world ; the upper division contains the combat with the 
dragon, the lower has four figures in full relief, support- 
ing the shield bearing the arms of England, Scotland, 
and Ireland, and the plume of the Prince of Wales. 
The shield of Achilles, and the gold salt-cellar repre- 
senting the white tower of the castle, are splendid 
specimens of art. The wine-coolers are copies of the 
Warwick and other classical vases. The hall brilliantly 
illuminated; two military bands occupying the gallery; 
the beefeaters or " boii£fetiers," as they were originally 



16 LONDON AND LTTEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

callecl, and the namerous servants in state liveries, give 
a grand effect to the whole. The company assemble in 
the drawing-room by half-past seven. At a quarter 
before eight, Her Majesty and Prince Albert enter; 
and after graciously recognising their guests, the Queen 
takes the arm of a person of the highest rank, and, 
followed by Her Boyal Consort and the Duchess of 
Kent, leads the way to the banqueting hall. During 
dinner the bands play some popular waltzes, marches, 
overtures, and quadrilles ; the repast is excellent, and 
served on an entire service of gold plate ; the attendance 
is wonderful. The absence of bustle or confusion in so 
numerous a party is marvellous; to use a homely adage, 
there seems to be "a place for everything, and every- 
thing in its place." The soup, fish, entrees, &c., are 
handed round in a state of caloric that is quite sur- 
prising. The sideboards literally groan (as the news- 
papers term it) under the weight of home and foreign 
luxuries, game and truflle pies, pasties, boars* heads, 
Eussian tongues, caviare, sardines, &c. The wine, of 
the highest order, is handed round plentifully during 
dinner, as the Court do not patronise the old English 
fashion of sitting long after dinner. At nine o'clock 
grace is said, and the Lord Steward then gives " The 
Queen." All stand up, except Her Majesty, who grace- 
fully bows her acknowledgments. " God save the 
Queen " is then played by the united bands ; the official 
Toast-master again rises, and gives " His BoyaJ Highness 
Prince Albert ; " the company standing, and the bands 
playing the " Coburg March." In about twenty minutes 



I^NDON AND UYBBPOOL AT TABLET. 17 

Her Mcgesty rises, and, supported by her august mother 
and the other ladies, proceeds to the drawing-room. 
The Prince again takes his seat, and in less than half 
an hour joins Her Moy'esty. The manner in which the 
Ascot dinner is served reflects the greatest credit upon 
the different heads of the departments. Everything is 
conducted as well as if there were only a dozen people 
present; there is no hurry (as often seen in private 
houses) to remove the dishes before the proper time; 
no unnecessary delay ; every dish is presented in due 
course; the wine and "cup" bearers never flag. For 
comfort and solid magniflcence none come up to the 
royal dinners of old England. 

From the Palace we "proceed to the residence of the 
flrst Magistrate of the City of London, the Mansion 
House, and the scene of his inauguration, Guildhall. 
The ninth of November dinner at the latter is a flne 
sight ; and to those who get to the Lord Mayor's table, 
the fare is good. One custom we abominate, viz., the 
loving cup; and if some spirited Lord Mayor would 
allow the contents of the loving cup to be poured into 
the guests' glasses, he would deserve a public testimonial. 
What would a person say if a waiter at an inn placed oi^ 
the table a glass out of which any one bad drunk? 
Here you have a cup that hundreds have drank from. 
It is all very well in love ballads to talk of " sipping 
sweets," and leaving " kisses on tbe goblet ;" but in true 
home private life the idea is not at all an agreeable one. 
The small dinners at the Mansion House are a decided 
improvement upon the Gog and Magog feasts. Minis- 

B 



18 LONDON AND UVEBPOOL AT TABLET. 

terial and Speaker's dinners vary according to the givers 
of them. 

Without wishing to particularise any great dinners 
given during the London season, it may sufBice to give 
a hrief account of the average of the best mounted 
houses. You order your carriage, which lands you 
within five minutes of the appointed hour at your host's 
door. About ten minutes after, dinner is announced, 
and your hat is taken from you as you descend the 
stairs to enter the drawing-room. A delicate clear soup 
is handed round, nothing on the table except flowers 
and preserved fruits in old Dresden baskets, a hUl of 
fare placed next to every person, salmon or turbot with 
Dutch sauces, or a portion of red mullet with Cardinal 
sauce are oflered to each guest; cucumber and the 
essential cruet-stands bringing up the rear. The "flying 
dishes," as the modem cooks call the oyster or marrow 
pates, follow the fish. The entrees are carried round, a 
sweetbread au jus, and lamb cutlets, with asparagus or 
peas: earefvlly avoid what are called flank dishes; if 
placed on the table they are cold, and a vtdgar intrusion ; 



either venison, roast saddle of mutton, or stewed beef 
a la jardiniere, is then produced, the accessories being 
salad, vegetables, French and English mustard. A 
Turkey poult, duckling, cw green goose, commences the 
second course, peas and asparagus following in their 
course ; plovers' eggs in aspic jelly, and a mayonaise 
succeed ; a macedoine of fruit, meranges d la creme, 
and a marasquino jelly, form the sweets. Two ices, 
cherry-water, and pine-apple cream, with the fruit of 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 19 

the season, furnish the desert. One servant or more, 
according to the numher of the party, must attend 
exclusively to the wine, which must ever be flowing 
during dinner. Gofiee, hot and strong, ought always to 
be served in the diniug-room, if it be carried up stahs 
it gets cold, and the chances are ten to one some 
awkward person upsets a portion of the aromatic 
beverage into the lap of a lady; besides, it is unfair 
to ask a butler and his myrmidons with the trays 
to steer through a crowded drawing-room, amidst chairs, 
ottomans, fauteuils, screens, and tables, with gentlemen 
lounging in every direction. From this large and 
boring dinner, let us turn to the perfection of all, a 
party of six, eight, or ten, at a bachelor's snuggery. A 
private note, instead of the formal printed card, has 
beeu sent out, naming tlie hour, military time, and 
at that hour to a minute the guests are seated. 
Turtle from Liverpool, a Severn, or Wood Mill salmon, 
caught in the morning, a vol au vent, Maintenon 
cutlets, poularde, or duckling, jelly, and cream, com- 
pose the dinner, while a leg of cold lamb, dressed 
crab, or a lobster salad, are on the sideboard for 
those who prefer cold to hot dishes. Moselle or claret- 
cup, pale sherry, Madeira, and champagne, with 
Chateau, Lafitte or Latour, furnish " the flow of bowl." 
There is another style of dinner, as agreeable as the 
one we have just referred to, and not expensive, we 
allude to what may be termed " yacht chamber practice," 
and for winter entertainments especially they are perfec- 
tion. At these dinners all is simple, as the offices are 



20 L01UX)N AND LIYEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

inconvenient: ood-fish and Dutch sauce, preceded by 
half a dozen "natives" placed before each guest, with 
brown bread and butter, cut lemon, and cayenne, fol- 
lowed by a Pate de Laneeuhire, vulgarly called a *' Hot 
Pot." As many may doubt the merits of this popular 
dish, and be inclined to agree with the negro preeicher 
who illustrated his text of "faith without works" as 
likened to " a beef steak without gravy," the following 
receipt is given : — 

The lean part of a loin of mutton, cut into small 
outlets. 

Four mutton kidneys pounded, a quarter of a hundred 
oysters bearded, four or five potatoes peeled and cut into 
small slices ; mix together, and put a handful into the 
bottom of a white earthen pot, after that a layer of 
potatoes and onions, then mutton, &c., as before, 
until the pot is full; continually sprinkling pepper, 
salt, and a pinch of curry powder betwixt each 
layer. When the pot is full, pile on the top a good lot 
of potatoes, and bake in a moderate oven three hours ; 
^before sending to table, fill up with good game gravy. 
To the above add a ham on sideboard. 

Good wine, with a well-assorted party, is essential at 
all dinner entertainments. Hosts who do not give 
good wine and well-aired beds should be banished 
society without benefit of clergy, a case of eorum ocuU 
damnentur. 

Having now given the style of houses and dinners 
which the diner-out ought to appreciate, it is necessary 
to proceed to warn him of those he ought to avoid. 



^ LONDON AND LIVEEPOOL AT TABLE. 21 

Studiously avoid dining with Judges on Circuit, at their 
lodgings, during the Summer Assizes, until the hutler's 
department is altered. Everything on table is cold but 
the wine, which is confined to fiery sherry or port. In 
this age of progress, siuely some well iced champagne 
and claret might be introduced without infringing the 
statute law, and would be more in conformity with 
sobriety and common sense, on which common law is 
supposed to be founded. The Bar mess is equally 
lU) satisfactory, and as the members do not now all 
graduate at Public Schools and College, the profession 
is not so select in private as it used to be ; the diflRsrence 
between what are called the regulars and irregulars is 
as easily detected as that between a turbot and a brett, 
the latter being altogether an inferior fish at table. 
They are admitted to be the most pretentious set of 
itinerant bagsmen in existence, who presume on their 
call to the bar, and finding no practice, they become 
stump orators, in imitation of their brethren in America, 
and adopt the platform party that will pay them best to 
delude the people, having, as Gobbett said, an eye solely 
to the public money. 

Beware of a party of eighteen or twenty in a room 
that would scarcely hold half the number conveniently ; 
where an influenza trap is laid for you, by the room 
being at Calcutta heat ; the windows and doors open, 
forming a thorough draught. Where the entrees arrive 
in a cart from a second-rate pastry-cook, where every- 
thing is sure to be cold, except the wine; where the 
coachman, lately employed in the stable, places each 



22 LONDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

guest on the rack by the awkward way in which he 
handles the plates. Where a page, with three tiers 
of buttons, his paws encased in white cotton gloves, 
inserts his thumb into the fish sauces, brings you 
potatoes with your pate, if you are bold enough to 
attempt a thick wall of doughy pastry, with a homoeo- 
pathic supply of oysters imbearded within, and who 
generally deposits the contents of some greasy dish 
upon your coat, or your neighbour's dress. Where 
the butler (having been in a fume all day at his 
additional work, drilling gouty waiters, hiring extra 
plate, ordering Wenham Lake ice, which melts under 
the influence of the heat, and giving directions to 
what the four-in-hand club used to call "a scratch 
team ") is literally in a state of damp heat. Whete the 
footman, who has been on the tramp all day with notes 
and messages, gives warning just before the hour of 
dinner, having had a quarrel about some domestic affair. 
Where the professed woman cook has had no end to 
"disagreeables," as she terms them, from the kitchen 
fire smoking, the boiler nearly bursting, the fishmonger 
being late, and the butcher lad failing in his promise. 
Nor is the usual placidity of her temper at all improved 
at the unceasing ringing of the drawing-room bell, and 
the constant enquiry as to when dinner will be served. 
To masters and mistresses who get impatient, we would 
tender this piece of adviee ; never disturb your cuHnary 
artist during the process of serving or preparing dinner, 
as it will invariably tend to delay, if not to spoil it. 
Avoid a house where ostentation is the ruling passion» 



LONDON AND IIVEBPOOL AT TABU!. 23 

and electro plate prevails. Where your host tells you 
long stories of his wonderful wines, end does not give 
you iced-water in July ; where the table-cloth is strongly 
marked with black borders where the dishes hare been 
placed. Where the giver of the least prides himself 
upon things out of season, (such just being half enough 
to satisfy a tenth part of his guests,) and where nothing 
in season is worth touching. Where cheap champagne 
and ordinary French and Spanish wines do duty, from 
" his friend the Consul" Where the coffee is thick and 
edid as a November fog; and where the whole enter- 
tainment reminds oiie of the story of the man who, at 
an untidy Irish inn, desired the waiter to bring up the 
dinner on one plate, and the dirt on another. Such 
dinners have been seen, and although, as Baillie Nicol 
Jarvie remarks, "don't accept a man's hospitality and 
abuse the scoundrel behind his back," we cannot for the 
public good re&ain from warning our readers against 
the horrors so faintly described. To return to good 
cheer, it requires some science to attain it, both in 
public and private. Set it down as a general rtdej that 
no one except Russian Princes, or men with newly-acquired 
riches f and fools, ever order things out of season. Thick 
soups are a mistake; as a French author remarks, 
" three or four table-spoons of soup, with as many drops 
of sherry, are all that should be laid in for the founda- 
tion of a dinner." For a party of three, four, or five, a 
unicorn ought to be adopted. Soup removed by fish, 
two entrees, one white and one brown, and a small 
joint or poularde, thus forming the unicorn. We have 



24 LONDON AND LIYEEFOOL AT TABIiE. 

already alluded to a Russian dinner, which is the hest 
served and most eoonomical. It is always sent hot 
from the kitohen, and as the entr^s are not exposed ttf 
the puhlio gaze, there are fewer of them ; the joints 
served at the side-hoard hy an experienced artist, savo 
trouhle (but English people, justly proud of their 
superior meat, generally prefer to see the joint on the 
table). The waiting is rendered more easy ; there is no 
stooping of servants over the shoulders of the guests, 
no moving against your arm when you are taking a 
glass of wine; no chance of having a shower-bath 
over your dress, when the hot water plates are being 
removed. Such a circumstance happened abroad: an 
English lady who had married a foreigner was dining 
with her husband at a large party ; as a newly-married 
couple they got opposite one another. An English 
gentleman sat next the bride on one side, and having 
been on intimate terms with her family, struck up a 
friendly acquaintance ; towards the end of the dinner, 
the husband's attention was attracted by an extras 
ordinary look of digust on the part of his wife, who 
involuntarily shrank away from her talkative neighboiur. 
Her countenance was the picture of despair. " What 
can have happened?" thought the husband, still the 
lover. Another start rendered him almost frantic, when 
his surprise was not a little increased at the Englishman 
offering the disconsolate lady his pocket-handkerchief. 
*' Tears? a handkerchief!" inwardly exclaimed the now 
excited Othello, as he was about to leave his chair to ask 
an explanation, when the problem was solved by the 



LONDON AND LIVEKPOOL AT TABLE. 25' 

lady accepting the proffered cambric, and instead of her 
applying it to her beautiful, but somewhat dimned eyes, 
placed it behind her shoulders, and soon reproduced it 
covered with the richest gravy. A clumsy " help," as 
the Americans call their servants, had deposited the 
contents of a sauce-boat down her back; hence the 
start, the struggle, and the pallid countenance. 

The old fashion of 4>lastering the heads of servants 
with powder is gradually becoming exploded; to 
see a footman covered with pomatum and powder, as 
if he had borrowed the lard from the cook, and the 
flour from the dredger, is a most untidy and sorry 
sight Nothing, too, can be more unmeaning than 
to see this miserable relic of bygone times of swords, 
buckles, garters, gold lace coats, embroidered vests, 
and cocked hats, kept up in these days of plain 
liveries and cleanly habits. In well-regulated establish- 
ments the following piece of advice is needless; but 
it is most necessary in others. Never let the cook 
send up a pin with the ornamental cut paper, that 
usually, ''bouquet fashion," ornaments the end bone 
of the leg of mutton. It too often gets into the gravy ; 
and although a small dose of steel may be recommended 
by the faculty, it is not at all desirable to take it in the 
form of this sharp-pointed article. Another hint to 
minor artists : never ornament with camellias cut out of 
red and white vegetables ; never send up the feathered 
tail of a pheasant Always treat a hare as Apollo did 
Midas, let his ears be apparent ; a larded pheasant is 
not produceable ; if you want to make this naturally 



^ LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 

dry bird juicy, roast with a piece of bacon and 
sausage interiorly, or boil, and smother with a j^ree of 
onions. Rabbits, except in soup stock, ought not to 
have the honour of appearing at a gentleman's table. 
In ordering a dinner at a London tavern, at a suburban 
one, or a country inn, the bill of fare is the most 
misleading guide in the world ; it usually contains seven 
or eight soups ; fish, plain and dressed in twenty ways ; 
with every dish that the ingenuity of man or woman can 
make out of beef, mutton, veal, and lamb, and in twenty- 
nine cases out of thirty it happens that what you 
particularly fancy out of the list is not to be had. 
Instead then of studying it, exercise yoiur own judgment 
and discretion. A strong clear soup, the best fish of 
the day, a joint, or game, ought to suffice. 

At Greenwich, Blackwall, or Richmond, forbid soup 
and the second courses, confining yourself at the two 
former places to white bait and &esh water fish, with 
either a duck, grilled fowl, rumpsteak, or beans and 
bacon, to follow. At the latter, to eels dressed in 
different ways, flounders in water suchee, lamb cutlets, 
or poultry, and a small joiiit ; but it will save trouble 
if the order is given for dinner at five shillings per 
head. At a country inn, though the rail may be said 
to have almost driven all such off the road, we recom- 
mend a visit to the larder ; if you order from the bill 
of fare a steak and a chicken, you are most likely to 
be served with a tough coarse piece of beef If the 
larder is not well stocked, a stroll to the butcher's and 
poulterer's may repay you for your trouble: if not, 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 27 

ham and eggs, and good bread and cheese, are not to be 
sneered at. 

And now for a few remarks touching suppers. A 
talented French writer thus panegyrises this most social 
meal. "When five or six men of congenial tastes 
form a society to talk over during the evening all the 
agreeable impressions of the day, and who are them- 
selves familiar with all that is going on in* the world, 
and with those who are causing any sensation in it, the 
pleasure of suppers cannot be equalled." 

The nature of this repast must, however, entirely 
depend on the season. Gold boiled chickens, which are 
not so dry as roasted ones, are an indispensable dish ; 
or oysters from October to March, opened in the room, 
brawn, plover's eggs, poached eggs, lobsters plain, in 
salad, and hot au grdtin^ cold pies, dressed crabs, afford 
a sufficient choice of the principal materials out of 
which to iumish the viands. If a grill be considered 
essential, the following modus operandi is worthy of 
notice : — 

Let the fowl or turkey be neatly carved into legs, 
breast, wings, back, and merry-thought; score them 
with a knife, and rub them well over with mustard, 
not leaving some parts plastered over, and others bare ; 
then add the Dutch sauce d la Belvoir, No. 7, taking 
care that both sides have an equal quantity of the 
necessary accompaniments. Place the whole in a large 
dish, and serve thoroughly grilled and hot. Many think 
there is no art required to send up this dish ; this is a 
great mistake. How often is a dark, burnt, dry, hot, 



28 LONDON AND UVEBFOOL AT TABLE. 

" devil " sent up, the taste of which would suffice for the 
first lesson in fire-eating, and which so completely bums 
your organ of speech, that your taste is goue, and thirst 
so increased, that no reasonable quantity of liquid can 
allay it. Soda water, sugar, lemon, nutmeg, &c., &c., 
should be ready for making any cup beverages that may 
be fancied. 

Servants ought never to be permitted to remain in the 
room ; a dum waiter, with the needful supply of glasses, 
spoons, and a kettle of hot water, is all that is required 
to be handy. There is only one modem draw back to 
suppers, and that is the unwholesome habit of smoking ; 
the denseness of the atmosphere which it causes is not 
only injurious to health, but diametrically opposed to the 
hilarity of the evening ; a soporific feeling is produced, 
which, like opium eating, may be agreeable to the 
recipients, but does not extend its influence on the non- 
partakers. Take the majority of those who are addicted 
to the noxious weed, and it will be found they seldom 
open their mouths, except like steam engines, to emit 
smoke, or take in fuel and water, the latter mixed in 
this instance with sufficient alchohol to destroy the 
animalculsB. All brilliant wits make a practice of never 
smoking in public ; a mild Havannah, al fresco, in 
riding to cover, or on a water exciursion, is all weU 
enough, but a cigar is not the indispensable companion 
of visiting hours. 

To render one of the above suppers perfect, the party 
should be so up to the pleasure of the evening that no 
one person ever engrosses the whole conversation. It 



LONDON AND UVEBPOOL AT TABLB. ^ 

is not a smart anecdote or witty saying, a pungent 
remark, a well-pointed epigram or repartee, all following 
one another in a chaos of confusion, and repeated by a 
wit, howeyer talented, that conduces to an agr^eable 
reunion ; it is in the interchange of brUliant fancjf, the 
sharp, yet short encounter of antagonistic genius, the 
playful rejoinder, the good-humoured retort, the leading 
up to fayourite topics, and the absence of all selfishness, 
that creates the charm; a punster or an anecdote- 
monger who retaQs his worn-out wares, without giving 
his audience time to get a word in edgeways, ought 
especially to be shunned; it will be better to hire 
a man to recite the first chapter of the modem jest 
book, or spout forth some pages from the Percy 
Collection. Wit, to be effective, must flow sponta- 
neously. In the present day men exist, of the highest 
acquirements in conversational powers, who make their 
wit subservient to their higher order of intellect. The 
professional punster is a bore, and the retailer of conun- 
drums a still greater one. The punsters, like the Thugs 
of India, go on a system ; they lead their victims up to a 
certain number of ready cut and dried plants — ^for 
instance, an old snuff-box will be produced, which 
affords on opportimity of introducing an impromptu 
made at leisure. It has been ninety-eight years in the 
family, and in two more I shall call it a "sentry 
(century) box ;" again a newspaper may be reverted to, 
announcing the marriage of Miss Annie Bread, and, 
upon a remark being made upon the name, the trained 
buffo will deliver himself of what he would call an 



30 LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 

extempore epigram supposed to be written by the bride- 
groom : — 

"While belles around the Graces spread, 

And beans around them flutter, 
I'll be content with any hread. 

And won't have any but her (butter)." 

The conundrum vender, surpassing the hacknied 
punster, will commit to memory a dozen old charades, 
and dress them up in modem attire, suiting them to the 
persons and topics of the day; whenever such a one 
asks you " Do you give it up ?" the only way to stop 
him is, ** Yes ; and I wish you would, for I bought two 
himdred yesterday for a penny, and the hawker's voice 
and acting was worth more than his wares ; for in that 
gin-broken barrow tone, he asked, * Vy is curds like your 
h'opposite neighbour ? Becoz it's over the whey ! Vy 
is a donkey's tail like a new-bom baby ? Becoz it never 
was seen before. Vy was Biurford, when his h'exhibition 
was burnt down, like a h'orphan ? Becoz he'd no longer 
a pa — ^nor a' — ^ma.' " This is a quiet way to stop non- 
sense, and give a change of something more agreeable in 
the way of conversational amusement. 

This supper dissertation has occupied a considerable 
space, but, before concluding, one word on carving. 

No dinner can be thoroughly appreciated imless the 
carving be good, or where that remnant of English 
barbarism is kept up, of having everything placed on 
the table, and the person of the highest rank is called 
upon to assist the lady of the house, as if helping nicely 
were an hereditary accomplishment, it is then absolutely 



LOIIDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. Bl 

essential that the soup, fish, and entrees, after being 
handed to the ladies, sboidd be next offered to the 
distinguished martyr who is called upon to undergo the 
fatiguing duty of dividing the wings of chickens, &c., &c. 
A late royal duke, whose talents and knowledge were 
much greater than the world gave his royal highness 
credit for, was once heard to exclaim aloud, at a 
large party at a nobleman's house in Worcestershire, 
" Take this away, it's a very bad help." This was a 
characteristic, and, no doubt, a very true remark ; for 
there be carvers who destroy everything that falls under 
their careless, clumsy hands ; who never think of diving 
for green fat, sounding for cod sound, dividing the fin 
and liver into equal portions, and who will send meat 
and venison without fat and gravy, woodcock and snipe 
without trail, turkey without stuffing, and golden plover 
without toast. 

Sauces for teal and wild duck, that require great heat, 
ought to have spirit-lamps under the sauce-boat, but it lit 
a mistake to have them for entrees, as the cooking process 
should cease in the kitchen, and scalding water, if applied 
the last thing to the hot well, is quite sufficient to keep tliem 
at a proper temperature. 

The want of a well-arranged form of the " Carte du 
Diner" having been a subject of general complaint, the 
annexed Culinary " Reform BUI " is submitted. Each 
guest at a glance is able to select the dishes and wines 
he is most addicted to; and as the order of serving 
is clearly indicated, any inadvertent omission on the 
part of the servants may with propriety be rectified by 



82 IX>HD01!r AHD UYEBPOOL AT TABI2. 

the guests calling for the wine in the doe order of 
service. But it is incorrect to cdU for wuie$ oiU of 
the order laid down, at it crcate$ coi^usum. 

This form of " Carte" is to be met at all the best- 
moouted liverpool Dinner Tables, and has been adopted 
at the Town Hall Banquets, which are about the best 
served public dinners going. The whole turn-out is 
excellent, combining all the comforts of a well-appointed 
private dinner party, with a not over gorgeous display of 
civic grandeur. These dinners are equal, if not superior, 
to the state dinners of the Grovemor General of India. 

The " Carte " of the dinner offered by the Mayor, 
Samuel Holme, Esq., to Lord Gough and the Lord 
Mayor of Dublin, on the 8rd of May, 1853, will give 
some idea of "Liverpool at Table." — ^The wines are 
the property of the Corporation, selected by a committee, 
and stored in the cellars of the Town Hall. — The dinners 
are provided by Mr. Lynn, of the "Waterloo," who 
personally superintends the distribution of the Soup and 
Fish, and the carving of the joints at the side table. 
The guests usually number 50. 

A " Carte" for private dinners is also appended, in 
order that the host may insert in the margin the 
wines offered : — ^for instance, some there be, and always 
will be, who prefer " Steinberger," or " Sauteme," to 
"Moselle-Cup;" and others, "Burgundy" to "Claret- 
Cup ; many, no doubt, because it is supposed to require 
great skill to make good cup-beverages. This is a 
great mistake : practice will soon make perfect ; and 
as for the trouble, it is not worth mentioning, the 
process being so simple and easy. 



LONDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 33 

A Third also is added, suited for snug " single- 
harness " dinners, of six or eight at a round table, each 
dish discussed separately, and not jointly and severally; 
surely common sense dictates that dishes are to be 
partaken of when hot, and not to be looked at cold, in 
order to display Brummagem electro plated dishes, with 
the chance of being poisoned by the remains of plate 
powder; rely on it, nothing after all beats a white 
earthenware plate properly warmed. 



94 



LIYEBPOOL AT TABUS. 



VINS. 


TOWN HALL, 


SnrSB ms Sme XAI, 1858. 


Iced 
Madeira. 


PBEMIKK 8EBVICE. 

Poiages. 

Tortae Chdre— Ik la Beine. 


Moselle Cnp. 


PoisMous, 

8aiunon«— Tnrbot. 

Filets de Soles k la Tenetienne, Eperlans. 


Champagne. 


Entriet. 

Cdtelettes d'Agneau k la ProTen^ale. 

Bis de Yean, Saaoe Perigenx. 

Timbales de Nonilles k la Sefton. 

Boadins k la Biohelieo. 


Champagne. 


Table de Cdti. 

Viiees de BesUtance. 

Hannoh of Venison. Qnaiter of Lamb. 

Sprtaig Chickens. Bound of Beef. 

Spanish Ham. 


Claret-Gnp, 


SECOND SEBVICE. 

S6U. 

Leverets, Green Goose, Dncklings, 

Bice and Cnrry. 


Eao-de-Vie 

de 

Geiise. 

ou 
Gur&g6ak 


Sntretnetg. 

Qelke de Danzic— Abricots k la B^ence. 

Charlotte k la Bohemienne — Cr^me da Marasqoin. 

Poadins k la Nesselrode* — Compdte de P^ches. 

Ecrerisses, (Eufs de Playien. 

Le Pftt6 de Foies-gros de Strasbourg. 


DESSERT. 

Chateaa-Lafitte. 
Port. 
Madeira, 
j Wwrry. 


Dnsert. 

Ices. 

Ice., &o., &c., &o. 



*A small glaaa of Cherry Brandy ponxed o^ei t^ fAiQ« oi'K««ft'^xQdL% 
jpoddiag iff indiBpeneahle at all tables. 



LTTEfiPOOL AT TABLE. 



[35 



vnrs 


SIKEB SU Ire JAHYB., 1859. 




PBEMIEB SEBYIGE. 
Potaget. 
Demie Tortne Olaire, or Clear Kidney Sonp. 




POIMOM, 

Sauinon an Natarel. 




Entries. 
Lobster Patties, Snipes, or Woodcocks. 


TabU de C6U, 

Quarter of TAmb, or Pat6 de Lancashire, 

and Turkey. 




SECOND SEBVICE. 

R6U. 

Wild Daoks, or Bice and Carry. 




EntremeUS 
Plumb Padding, Minoe Pies, JeUy, and 


DESSEBT. 


Dtsaert. 
4rc«y 4'^.| ^^^t 4*^* 



\ 



36 



UVEBFOOL AT TABLE« 



VIN8. 


SIHEB DU Ifim* SEFTRE, 1858. 




FBEMiEK SEBYIGE. 

Potagei. 

Clear Gravy Soap. 




Poissons. 

Dablin Bay Haddock, 

(If you can get it fresh.) 




Entries, 
Oyster Patties, Grouse, or Partridges. 


ReUves. 
Small Joint: 




SECOND SERVICE. 

B6ts. 

Rice and Curry. 




Entremets. 
Damaon Tart, Italian Cream. 


DESSERT. 


A , 

TABLE-DE-COTE. 
Cold Ham, Salad, &c., &o. 



Wbfin in aeaaon a slice of water melon or haiil a peacYiXo q«a^ \s<ix%%t 
w introduced after soup. It is very refreahmg, anfli aaftisVa ^%ft«.\K.o\x. 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 37 



PAKT SECOND. 



The object of domestic solicitude is to endeavour to 
combine comfort and system, with economy in the social 
intercourse of life ; to draw a line between an intellectual 
dinner party of four, six, or eight (and which, with an 
equal admixture of ladies, may be extended to twelve), 
and that of large dinner gatherings, which are now very 
properly designated, " Season Liquidation Ke-unions," 
in discharge of Cosmopolitan *• Soup Tickets." To such 
re-unions, in rooms no larger than closets, and to the 
people who submit to the infliction of being stowed 
away like negroes in a slaver's hold, the only remedy is 
to withdraw from the self imposed ordeal of this middle 
passage, and seek repose in the quiet of small well 
selected parties, where alone " the feast of reason and 
the flow of soul," can be expected to be realised. 

K objection be taken to the prominent introduction 
of agreeable and economical " cup beverages," the reply 
is *' Wenham Lake ice demands them." 

Cookery-books, from the celebrated " Ude," the 
accomplished *' Francatelli," down to humble *^ Meg 
Dodds," abound in every bookseller's shop, in all of 
which ample instructions will be found for the guidance 



38 LONDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

and study of those anxious to excel in the profound 
science of Gastronomy ; all that requires to he added, as 
a hint to cooks, is, *' Ke^ your cooTnng up and keep your 
bUU down." But country hutlers often have to acquire a 

• 

knowledge of the art of decorating a tahle, and serving a 
dinner from such practical experience as they may have 
acquired from time to time in primitiye country houses. 
Considering that the success of a weU-coohed dinner 
entirely depends on the mode in which it is served, and the 
style of the watting, the following brief instructions wiU 
give a general idea of what is absolutely essential to good 
taste and simplicity without extravagance. 

DECORATION OF THE TABLE. 

Flowers should inyariahly he tastefully introduced, as 
heing the most pleasing and agreeahle to the eye and 
senses. Plateaus of dried fruits complete the ornamental 
part of the arrangements. For the sake of conyenience, 
sherry may he placed on the tahle. 

LIGHTING. 

It is of the utmost importance that the dining-room 
should he well lighted ; this is a point often neglected at 
the tahles of people who ought to know hotter, hut are 
too indolent to giye directions. The light thrown on the 
tahle should he briUiant, and every part of the room 
thoroughly illuminated, although with a more suhdued 
light. Ventilation must, at the same time, be attended to. 



lOKDON AMD UYEBPOOL AT TABLE. 89 
WAITING. 

Eyery dish, plate, knife, fork, spoon, and glass should 
^ placed on the table, and remoyed without the UmI 
moue or ofpearance of hmtle ; eyery movement must 
be quiet and deferentiaL Plates warmed up to that 
point of heat which will bear the touch. SmaU cruet- 
frame9y oowtawmg salt, Cayenne pepper, and mustard^ 
ehoM be OH the takle in proportion (^ one to every three 
pereonts, 

SOUP, 

In order to ^ve the cook fair plaj, the fish should 
never be served witk the soup — ^it is a distinct and 
important course. Wherevar the soup and fish are 
•served together look out for squalls, and keep your 
weather eye open. 

FISH. 

When the soap is handed round, ring the bell as a 
fiignal for the cook to isend up the fish, and thus it will 
be served hot, and the anxiety and character of a good 
cook cared for.* Never place fish on a napkin, hut serve 

* The hour named for dinner should be adheared to with 
military exactness. It is related of Camhaceres that Napoleon 
kept his dinner watiiig half an hour, and in despair he sent for his 
eook, and in tme military phraseology, exclaimed, " Henri 1 save 
fhe entrements, the entries are annihilated." The late Dr. Kitchener, 
whose name fUQy hore ont his devotion to the culinary art, piqned 
himself upon his f nnotnahty, and was in the habit of having the 



40 LONDON AND LTTEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

on a silver or earthenware strainer. Almost every fisb 
requires the use of a knife, and as steel is detri- 
meDtal to the delicate flavor of the piscatory luxury, 
a silver blade wUl prevent you being choked with 
bones. 



ENTREES. 

In the same way, the entrees and top and bottom 
dishes should never be served together. The entrees 
should be handed round from the side table, and dis- 
posed of in succession, one at a time, and when the 
plates are removed, then place on the table the top and 
bottom removes. At the best appointed tables after 
the fish small pates of lobster, oysters, or shrimps are 
handed round, and then no more than two entrees are 
ever served. The pates must be made of delicate light 
puff paste. 



ENTREMETS. 
Require no particular instructions. 



following motto written over his sideboard : " Come at seven, go at 
eleven.* Theodore Hook, who always liked to get into what are 
called the short hours, added the word " it,** to the above, and great 
was the surprise of the worthy doctor, when he found that by the 
alteration the notice read as follows : — 

" Come at seven^ go it at eleyen.'* 



1X)ND0N AN0 L17EEP00L AT TABLB. 41 



ROSE-WATER. 

If rose-water is introduced, do not have a silyer hand- 
bath for the million, but have the fragrant liquid in a 
separate finger glass for each guest. The lavatory opera- 
tion is often performed in a way truly disgusting — 
napkins and fingers immersed. 

The old fashion of a small piece of lemon in a glass of 
pure watery — tepidy if during the wintety sJiould not be 
omitted. 

WINES. 

After Soup. — Hand round iced madeira; and re- 
member that, after turtle, punch is banished from all 
well regulated tables, as being a stomach destroying, 
bilious, gouty, and cloying beverage. 

After White Fish. — One glass only of hock or 
moselle cup.* 

After Entrees. — In order to pander to the prevailing 
weakness of the day, and assuming that the champagne 
is choice in quality and perfectly icedj this much over- 
rated, but now favourite wine with the ladies, may be 
introduced and continued throughout the dinner — but, 
strictly speaking, it should be reserved until the roast 



• White Cnp and Sauces follow White Fish— Red Cup and Brown 
Sances, Red and Brown Fish. The same rule applies to White and 
Brown Meats. 



4*2 LONDON AND IXYSBPOOL AT XABLE. 

has been served. Never we round tcmcer aiKmdJUftiUi^ 
catclwng ehamp<igne gUxsses, but properly fcuhioned tuUp 
shaped ones. 

AvTEB Gams. — ^Either claret cup or port 

Afteb Ices. — Cherry brandy in Bohemian liqueur 
glasses; all other liqueurs are destructiTe of the palate. 

Should oysters precede the soup, a glass of Ghablis or 
Sauteme. 

"Oyster" or "anchovy** toast should be substituted 
for cheese; the handing round of the latter is more 
honoured in the breach than the observance. The 
proper time to eat cheese is at luncheon. 

BREAKFASTS, 
a LA LORD WILTON. 

Have a bill of fare of what is ready in the kitchen 
to be dressed, It is often painful to see plates of eggs 
and ham, cutlets, kidneys, come up and get cold on 
the side-board, especially when persons do not assemble 
punctually, as they should do at all meals to the minute. 

It is very essential that the butler should be on the 
most charitable terms with the cook, so as to give due 
effect to the respective departments, as well as to ensure 
a cordial cooperation on the part of the whole establish- 
ment ; it being now an acknowledged axiom that, with a 
good cook and a little mutual forbearance, domeetie com- 
fort and worldly happiness are greatly promoted. It is 
also necessary for a butler to be very circumspect in his 
conduct : exacting strict economy and care throughout 



LONDON AND UVEBFOOL AT TABLE. 43 

his department Early rising is requisite : drones must 
not be permitted to remain in the hive, punctuality 
being indispensable. 

Taking the range of service, it is universally admitted 
that none are so well off as domestic servants, or in so 
good a position to save their earnings, and acquire the 
good will and patronage of their employers : few, how- 
ever, profit by the opportunities offered, owing, in nine 
cases out of ten, to want of education and good conduct 
If a person, well to do in the world, is pointed out as 
having originally been a confidential servant in a noble- 
man^s or gentleman's family, it will be found almost 
invariably, on enquiry, that he or she seldom neglected 
religious duties — always attending public worship on the 
sabbath. And while on this portion of the subject, let it 
not be forgotten that the Book of Proverbs contains a 
code of ethics, which may truly be said to epitomise the 
common sense of philosophy for the daily study and 
practise of all grades of society : indeed, the reading of 
the Proverbs, and pondering over, and applying them 
hoinrly, cannot be too strictly enjoined in all households. 
The precepts lay down the foundation of all moral 
conduct, and may be not inaptly described as somewhat 
analogous to Soyer's fundamental receipts, Nos. 1, 7, 
and 134, mentioned in his " Treatise on Gastronomy," 
as forming the basis of the culinary art'i^ 

* Some reform is absolately necessary with regard to the class of 
footmen. A tall ovei^own country lout from the plough, unedu- 
cated, expects to be speedily transformed into a ladies' footman, 
he tains up his nose at good wholesome plain food, declares his 



44 tX)NDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 

The foregoing synopsis will be sufficient, as & general 
guide, to establish something like discipline and uni- 
formity of practice in those essentials admitted to be 
necessary for regulating the movements of the " corps 
domestique^ in order to secure combined action when 
auxiUary aid is required to assist the permanent estab- 
lishment in serving a banquet. 

Formulas for keeping simple and correct accounts of 
the expenditure in each department of the household 
should be provided, without which no establishment can 
be said to be well regulated. The want of this necessary 
and salutary check and supervision, has caused the ruin 
of many aristocratic families, especially in Ireland and 
Scotland, owing, in a great measure, to an utter forget- 
fulness that hospitality must be regulated by income, in 
order to guard against improvident expenditure. 

master keeps a orrid bad table ; that the beer is hexecrable, <fec., 
forgetting that each servant is allowed, in all families, in addition 
ilb. of loaf sugar, and 2 oz. of tea per week. In good old times, 
servants prided themselves on being family fixtures ; now no 
young man considers he is bettering himself if he stays more than 
a year or two in one place, and when new liveries are issued, 
" Jeames " begins to talk of disagreeables in the servants' hall, and 
not being comfortable with his fellow servants; and after a few 
years in livery, he thinks himself competent to fiU the responsible 
nituation of house-steward and butler, or groom of the chambers. 
There are, no doubt, many honourable exceptions to the above 
rule. Women are by far the most valuable domestic servants, 
and do more work without bustle than any in-door footman. 



LONDON AND LIYEBPOOL AT TABLE. 45 



PART THIED. 



The following receipts will be found particularly useful 
on board yachts, and most refreshing after recovering 
from sea sickness, the effects of which were thus graphi- 
cally described by a sufferer on board Royal Yacht 
Squadron cutter Nymph, placed by the popular Baronet 
at his disposal for a month's cruise. Being a nautical 
green hand, he was, of course, determined not to 
hang about Ryde Piers, but prove himself every inch 
a sailor, by keeping out at sea for a week : he 
suffered accordingly, and was unable to move from 
his couch ; when, however, the weather moderated, and 
after being two days without food, he ordered some 
chicken broth; but no sooner had he raised himself, and 
swallowed a spoonful or two, then he dropped his head 
again on the pillow, and exclaimed, " Man wants but 
little here below, and not that little long. — Steward ! ! 
the basin ! ! ! Quick ! ! ! ! Oh Yacht, my head !!!!!" 

The steward, fortunately, was an old experienced 
hand, and admiring the determined pluck of his tem- 
porary master, recommended the sufferer to a glass 
of sherry, with half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, 
then to eat a dry biscuit. By a desperate effort this was 
accomplished; and, after an interval of half an hour, a 



46 LONDON AND LITEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

glass of cherry brandy was administered. The same 
process was adopted the next day, and at noon a tumbler 
of Moselle Cup, " a la Sir John Bayley/* completed the 
cure. 

The following is the Baronet's receipt, to whom the 
author is, and the Liverpool public ought to feel, deeply 
grateful. 

No. 1.— MOSELLE CUP, OR BOTTLED VELVET.* 

k LA BIB JOHN BITLBT. 

A botde of Moselle; half a pint of sherry; juice of 
a lemon, not too much, so as to predominate; two table 
spoonfuls of sugar; a bunch of burrage, or young 
nettles, for ten minutes, or a sprig of verbena ; all well 
mixed and then strained and iced. It is very good 
without the herbs, and easily made in a jug filled with 
ice. 

No. 2.— CHAMPAGNE, HOCK, OR CHABLIS CUP. 

k LA GOODBICKB. 

Dissolve four or five lumps of sugar in a quarter of 
a pint of boiling water, with a little very thin lemon 
peel ; let it stand a quarter of an hour ; add one bottle 
of the above wines ; three or four leaves of burrage, or 
small bunch of young nettles, or a sprig of verbena ; a 
small glass of sherry; half a pint of water; mix well 
and let stand half an hour; strain, and ice it well. 

* Medical men now prescribe champagne for patients without 
taking the precaution to analyze what is called champagne, which 
is perhaps more adulterated than any other wine, except port; 
hence when made into cup it is far more wholesome. 



LONDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 47 

No. 3.— -CLABET CUP, OB MULLED CLARET. 

k LA LORD SALTOUir, 

Peel one lemon fine; add to it some white poimoed 
sugar; pour over one glass of sherry, or brandy; then 
add a bottle of claret (vin ordinaire the best), and sugar 
to taste ; a bunch of burrage, or young nettles, for ten 
minutes, or a sprig of verbena; one bottle of soda 
water ; nutmeg, if you like it. For cup, strain and ice 
it welL For mull, heat it and serve it hot. 

No. 4.— CIDEB CUP. 

i LA LITTLBDALB. 

A quart of cider; a bottle of soda water; two glasses 
of sherry; one small glass of brandy; juice of half a 
lemon ; sugar and nutmeg to taste ; bunch of burrage, 
or young nettles, for ten minutes, or a sprig of verbena ; 
strain and ice it all well. This is a delicious and truly 
English beverage^ and only requires to he tasted to he duly 
appreciated. 

KISS ME QUICK. 

k LA BABTOV. 

Brandy and water in a large silver or glass goblet, 
half filled mth pounded ice, white sugar, eight or ten 
leaves of fresh gathered mint, and a small portion of 
lemon. 



4S LONDON AND Lr7EBP00L AT TABLE. 

SHERRY COBBLER. 

Same as above, without lemon peel or mint ; sherry 
vice brandy, with a dash of nutmeg. 

GIN COBBLER. 
Ditto, ditto. 

GLASGOW PUNCH. 

k LA MILLS. 

One glass of brandy; half glass of Jamaica rum; 
a table spoonful of arrack or whisky; quarter of a 
lemon; a table spoonful of powdered white sugar; 
water and ice. The above must be weU mixed ; the ice, 
of the clearest sort, ought to be planed into small 
pieces; and to those who like their draughts "like 
linked sweetness long drawn out," let them use a glass 
tube or straw to sip the nectar through. 

No. 5.— OYSTER TOAST. 

k LA SIB JOHN BATLBT. 

Bruise one small anchovy in a mortar, fine; take a 
score of oysters (Natives, or Hampshire Royals, best), 
and cast off their beards ; chop the oysters up fine ; put 
anchovy and oysters into a small saucepan ; mix both 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 49 

together with sufficient cream to give it a pleasing con- 
sistency ; heat it well over the fire, stirring it all the 
time ; spread it on a round of huttered toast baked crisp 
and crust cut off; serve it up hot, in slices ; eat in solemn 
silence; wash down with a glass of hrown sherry. 

*No. 6.— BOILED COLD SALAD. 

k LA BOSCOE. 

One spoonful of salt, one spoonful of mustard, well 
mixed ; three table spoonfuls of oil ; one table spoonful 
of vinegar, half Elder, half Tarragon; six drops of 
Chili vinegar; beet root, onions, celery, cut in thick 
square slices, boiled and stirred well together in the 
same ; pepper the whole bountifully ; a couple of boiled 
eggs, cut in quarters ; mix all well together. It is an im- 
provement to ice it. 

No. 7.— DUTCH SAUCE. 

A LA BELVOIB. 

One glass port wine; one ditto .Harvey sauce; one 
ditto walnut pickle ; three table spoonfuls of gravy ; one 
pickled walnut, bruised ; a bit of butter ; slice of a small 
onion ; mustard, cayenne, and salt to taste ; mix all 
together and serve it hot. A brilliant accompaniment 
to aU stews, hashes, grills, and game. 

* Water cresses boiled, are equal if not superior to spinach. 
D 



50 UONDON AND UVBBFOOL AT TABLES^ 

No. 8.— KEDGEBEE. 

AS BSCELLBHT DISH FOB BBBAKPA8T. 
k LA CHE8HIBE. 

A breakfast cup of rice, boiled and strained; four 
eggs, hard boiled ; a large haddock boiled, or any cold 
fish ; put a large piece of butter in a stewpan, mince 
altogether, season weU, and serve very hot 

No. 9.— SAUCE AIRELLE. 

k LA DODO. 

To a good stock, add according to quantity required, 
half or one tea spoonful of cayenne, one to three glasses^ 
of wine, and one to three table spoonfuls of cran- 
berries; boil together for five minutes; strain through 
a tammie, and serve hot when wanted. An excellent 
and new sauce for wild ducks, cutlets, grills, hashes, &c. 

No. 10.— DEMIE TORTUE (claibe.) 

k LA BOBT. 

Boil for one hour, half a calfs head with the skin on- 
When cool, cut the best parts of the head into pieces 

about one inch square, and wash them well in several 

waters, to clear away all loose particles. 
Have ready a good beef stock, slightly flavoured with 

mushrooms. Put the stock into the stewpan in which it 

is intended to- make the soup. 



LONDON AND XJYERPOOL AT TABLE. 51 

Add, SLICED, fi^e caiit>ts, five turnips, five large onions, 
two or three shalots, plenty of celery, a bundle of herbs 
of all sorts, consisting of sweet basil, lemon th3rme, 
common thyme, knotted marjoram, winter savory, one or 
two bay leaves, and a handful of parsley. 

Always flavour more from vegetables- and herbs than 
firom spices, and never fry anything for dear soup ; nor 
use flour. 

Gontinne to add three table spoonfuls of Tarragon 
vinegar, one of soy; season with cayenne, and salt, 
twelve cloves, twelve allspice, three bits of mace, and 
two or three slices of lean ham. 

Set over the fire to keep hot ; put in the whites and 
shells of six eggs, previously beaten up, and well stirred. 

Let the soup then boil, and simmer over the fire for 
two hours. 

Strain it through a tammie; put in the prepared 
pieces of calf's head ; boil all together, and add, tchen 
served in the tureen, one or two table spoonfuls of 
brandy, — some prefer wine to brandy. 

At table, have ready to hand round slices of lemon, and 
cayenne. 

This herbaceous hygienic soup cures dyspepsia, pro- 
motes digestion and amiability, banishes melancholy, 
and is an antidote to gout. A gentleman who partook of 
it for the first time, could not help exclaiming : — 

I 've culled the fairest " Flower," 

I 've basked in Beauty's " Bower," 

But I ne'er tasted soup »o made by " Soyer.'* 



52 IX)NDOM AND UTERPOOL AT TABLE. 

Gastronomes have pronounced this receipt worthy of 
a place in the Archives of the " Haute-Cuisine."* If a 
calve's head with the skin on is not to be had, substitute 
a pig's head ; but you will have an excellent clear soup 
without any heads, if the cook will only exercise his 
brains. 

No. 11.— POTAGE. 

k LA HOOLRAJ. 

Put about a quarter of a pound of butter into a stew- 
pan, and fry with it for ten minutes a slice or two of 
bacon, and four onions sliced. 

* The " Gastronome," by his researches, is gradually led to the 
study of Botany, opening to him a new field of intellectual culture ; 
for instance, he naturally asks himself this question — " What are 
the essential qualities of Herbs?" The question can only be 
solved by botanical researches ; Miller must be read, Loudon con- 
sulted ; hence he discovers that Sweet-Basil, (the gem of herbs,) 
is known as " Ocymum." There are eight species, all natives 
of warm climates, possessing a fine aroma, resembling that of 
Cloves — one species, " Sweet Basil." in particular, is used in the 
kitchen by French Cooks, who make great use of it in their soups 
and sauces. 

Again, " Thyme," or " Thymus," belongs to the same class ; it 
is, in fact, a species of " Wild Basil," in search of which, goats 
climb steep mountains. — ^Dryden thus alludes to it: — 

" No more, my Goats, shall I behold you climb 
The steepy cUffs, or crop the flowery Thyme." 

" Burrage," or " Borage," is also amongst the Hygienic or Cordial 
flowers — when Burrage, or young Nettles cannot be obtained for 
cup beverages, a slice of Cucumber will impart the same sharp 
pleasant flavour, provided too much is not used, and that not too 
long. The young leaves and tender tops are used occasionally as 
Salads, and furnish a boiled dish in Summer and Autumn — the 
juice of the plant affords Nitre. 



L0K9ON AMD LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 53 

Have ready a chicken cut up small, which also put 
into the stewpan to fry for a few minutes longer, then 
stir in, while still frying, two tahle spoonfuls of cream, 
two of curry powder, and two of curry paste. 

Have ready, warmed, a good stock, highly flavoured 
with herbs and vegetables, which add by degrees to the 
first preparation. 

Let all simmer together gently for two hours, by which 
time the chicken will be quite tender. It will then re- 
quire more salt, and perhaps more seasoning from the 
curry paste. 

Strain through a tammie, pick out the prime pieces 
of chicken, and put them back into the soup; and 
season as your taste may suggest: serve with rice in a 
separate dish. 

This soup is better made the day before it is wanted, 
€is it should be well skimmed. 

All soups are improved by a squeeze of lemon juice. 
This belongs to the mulligatawny category, most of 
which vary in details, as do Bengal, Madras, and 
Bombay Curries.* 

* Speaking of Curries, it is lamentable to witness this aromatic 
dish served in Enrope as an Entree, sometimes with scarcely any 
rice, and that in the same dish. The rice should be abondant, and 
carefully boiled ; handed round in a separate dish, and tlien the 
Curry. It should never appear until the second course, and is an 
admirable substitute for Game, when the latter is not in season, or 
to be had. In India, this dish is indispensable both at tiffin and 
dinner daily. It is a hors d'oeuvre that people never tire of, when 
properly concocted and served a TOriental, being in fact, the Pate 
de Foies-Gras of India. When partaking of Curry, always use a 
Dessert-spoon instead of a fork ; the use of the latter betokens a 
« Griffin." 



54 LONDON AND UYEBFOOL AT TABLB. 

No. 12.— PATE DE MER. 

k LA KYHPH. 

Denomiiiated "a bba pib/' by Spiihead Cooks. 

Put some very thin paste, made of flour and water, at 
the bottom and sides of a well tinned pan — cut up a 
fowl into pieces, some slices of ham or bacon ; add a 
bunch of herbs of all sorts, especially sweet basil and 
marjoram, and a sliced onion; mushroom also if you 
have it, and a pinch or two of curry powder. 

Put the meat and paste, layer for layer; cover the 
whole with paste, making a hole in the centre of it ; 
pour in some good broth, until an inch above the paste, 
which contLQue doing as it boils away. 

Let it boil up gently, and then keep it simmering, so 
as to stew the whole quite tender; cut the paste in 
pieces, and serve all up in a terrine ; wash down with a 
glass of cherry brandy. 

No. 13.— IMPERIAL BROWNING. 

k LA EUGENIE. 

Pound four ounces of refined sugar, put it in a clean 
frying pan, with one ounce of butter ; set it over a clear 
fire, stir it very well aU the time ; when it begins to be 
frothy, the sugar is dissolving, then hold it higher over 
the fire; add a pint of water; when the sugar and 
butter are of a deep brown, pour in a small wine glass of 
brandy, and keep stirring all the time; put in a bunch 



LONDON AND UYEBPOOI. AT TABLE. 55 

of herbs of all sorts; — quarter of an ounce of pepper, 
two or three blades of mace, three table spoonfuls of 
mushroom ketchup, a little salt, the rind of a lemon; 
boil them slowly for ten minutes; pour it into a basin; 
when cold, take off the scum very clear, and bottle it 
for use. 

No. 14.-C0TELETTES AUX HUITBES. 

k LA HABTEB. 

Scald three dozen large oysters in their own liquor for 
a few minutes ; strain off the liquor, and keep it ready. 

Beard the oysters carefully, breaking them as Httle as 
possible. 

Take two ounces of butter, two large table spoonfuls 
of flour, the same of stock made from calves* feet; add 
the Hquor the oysters have been scalded in; mix 
altogether, seasoning with cayenne, and a very small 
quantity of nutmeg and salt. Put all into a saucepan, 
which place on the Are, stirring constantly till it boils; 
then add the oysters, and when they are warmed, pour 
all into a flat dish to become cold. 

Next day, with a tin cutter, cut out the cutlets; have 
ready a quantity of nice bread crumbs, poxmded and 
sifted, also some eggs well beaten up with a little cream. 
Dip the cutlets in the crumbs, then in the eggs and 
cream, and afterwards again in the crumbs. Fry in a 
large panful of boiling clarifled dripping, a light brown, 
and send to table as hot as possible. 

Remember not to boil the oysters, or they will be 
toughs 



56 LONDON AND UVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

No. 15.— SALAD SAUCE. 

a LA PALATINB. 

Dry the salad thOTOughly with a iiapldn, and pepper 
it before adding the following dressing : but the lettuce, 
if clean, is better without washing. — 
1 yolk of a hard-boiled eggj 

1 tea spoonful of iliustard, 

2 table spoonfuls of oil, 

1 table spoonful of cream, 

1 tea spoonful of tarragon vinegar. 

1 tea spoonful of common ditto, 

^ tea spoonful of sugar. 
Eub the egg very smooth, adding a little salt, then the 
mustard, then the oil by degrees, working it with the 
rest till quite smooth, then add the cream, and last of 
all the vinegar. 

No. 16.— SHRIMP SAUCE, 

k LA XABIFA. 

Take a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a 
table spoonful of flour, mix them with cream, instead of 
water; add a dash of anchovy sauce, then the shrimps, 
and stir all well together. 

No. 17.— FISH SAUCE. 

k LA FABKEB. 

Put in a stewpan half a tea spoonful of chopped 
shalot, and two ounces of butter; fry the onions a light 
brown ; then add sufficient veal stock, and half a pint 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 6T 

of cream, and let it boil at the comer of the stove ten 
minutes; then add half a tea spoonful of chopped 
mushroom, half a tea spoonful of chopped parsley, one 
tea spoonful of essence of anchovies, a table spoonful of 
white wine, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon. 
Pour it over the fish, and serve. 

No. 18.— FOR FLAVOURING SOUP. 

^ LA " THE OBOVE." 

Soak well some sliced mushrooms in two or three 
table spoonfuls of white wine, then take out the 
mushrooms, and add the juice of half a lemon, a dessert 
spoonful of white pounded sugar, and a pinch of curry 
powder. 

No. 19.— RABBIT SOUP. 

k LA IVr FABM. 

Cut a rabbit into small pieces, fry them with onions, 
tiumips, celery, &c., and a few cloves, till of a light 
brown; then stew altogether in a good gravy until 
tender ; strain off the herbs and vegetables ; put to it 
the pieces of rabbit, and season with No. 18 ; much of 
the flavour depends on frying the rabbit with the 
vegetables and herbs. 

No. 20.— MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

k LA GLENLEE. 

Put into an earthem vessel the yolk of an egg with a 
seasoning of pepper, salt and a little vinegar, turn and 
mix well, adding little by little, stirring continually, 
adding a good table spoonful of good oil. 



58 LONDON AND UVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

Your sauce being well mixed, and of safficient quantity, 
add a tea spoonful of Tarragon vinegar stirring all the 
time. This sauce is very good if well seasoned, but it 
requires patience to mix it properly ; it is excellent for 
cod fish, salmon, turbot, mackerel, boiled soles or for 
cold fish salads. 

No. 21.--LIVERP00L CUBBY. 

k LA PABBY« 

Form two table spoonfuls of curry powder into paste. 

Gut up a rabbit or fowl into small pieces an inch long, 
rub them over with the paste, fi^ the meat with butter, 
and four onions sliced, to a deep brown; then add 
about two-thirds of a pint of good gravy, and let simmer 
for twenty minutes, remove all fat and skim, and put by 
cold ; when wanted stew gentiy for four hours. 

Mix together 2 spoonfuls of cream, 1 spoonful of Soy, 
a tea cupful of sour apples, or a table spoonful of cran- 
berries, 1 of flour. Dessert spoon of salt, a bit of butter, 
which add to the curry half an hour before it is taken 
from the fire. 

When dished up add the juice of half a lemon. In 
India ham is eat with curry and pickles, &c., to suit the 
taste of partakers ; the remains of a duck, or of game, 
all come well in to season if you have them. 

No. 22.— CLEAB BROWN SOUP. 

h LA ACKLETOir. 

Prepare the bottom of the stew pan with two ounces 
of butter. 
Put in a pound of lean ham, or a red herring, the 



LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 59 

meat from a rabbit or two, or a knuckle of veal, and a 
shin of beef cut in pieces, until done to a light brown ; 
then put in the bones and cover with cold water. 

When it begins to boil, keep skimming it for two 
hours, putting in a little cold water occasionally to make 
the skim rise. 

Then add onions, carrots, celery, ten bay leaves, sweet 
basil, thyme, pepper corns, and a little mace. 

Skim it as required while the, vegetables are stewing, 
and let it stew for eight hours, then strain it through a 
tammie ; when served in tiureen, season with No. 18, if 
required. 

No. 23.— LEMON WHIPS. 

a LA HINBHULL VEBNON. 

To a pint of good cream add a full gill of white wine, 
the juice of two lemons and the rind of one, half a 
pound of white sugar pounded. 

Put all into a deep pot, and whip them gently for half 
an hour, and dont get impatient. 

Put them into glasses, and let them stand all night. 

They will keep for three weeks. 

No. 24.— CUCUMBER TOAST. 

k LA BEVEBLEY TVCKEB. 

TaJte a large cucumber, (just before it begins to turn 
yellow), pore and slit lengthwise; place in clear water, 
and boil till tender ; take out ; dip in a thick batter, 
and fry in butter till brown. Serve hot, and you will 
have a dish equal to oysters. 



MOBAL. 



It is now a received aphorism, in this age of progress 
and reconstruction, that the man who makes two 
blades of grass grow, where one only grew before, is 
a benefactor to mankind ; surely, then, it will be readily 
conceded, that if the " heavy jack-ass and hamper-of- 
greens'* dinners, can be reformed, and two dishes, in«t«a<2 
of four, be made to give more satisfaction, and save 
money, time and trouble, this little " brochure " will not 
have been written in vain, — its object and end will have 
been attained. 

Lord Byron thus ridicules the English banquets of 
his day: — 

" The dinner-bell has rang, 
And grace is said : the grace I shonld have song, — 
Bat I 'm too late, and therefore mast make play. 

'T was a great banqaet, sach as Albion old 
Was wont to boast — as if a glutton's tray 
Were something very glorious to behold. 
But 't was a public feast, and public day — 
Quite full, right doll, guests hot, and dishes cold, 
Great plenty, much formality, small cheer, 
And everybody out of their own sphere. 
The Squires familiarly formal, and 
My Lords and Ladies proudly condescending; 
The very servants puzzling how to hand 
Their plates without it might be too much bending 



LONDON AND UVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 61 

From their high places by the sideboard's stand — 
Yet, like their masters, fearftil of offending : 
For any deviation from their graces 
Might cost both men and masters too — ^their places. 

Bat we '11 say nothing of Affairs of State, 
A difference between crockery-ware and plate, 
As between English beef and Spartan broth — 
And yet great heroes have been bred by both. 

Dully past o'er the dinner of the day ; 
And Jnan took his place, he knew not where, 
Confused, in the confusion, and distrait. 
And sitting as if nailed upon his chair, 
Though knives and forks clanged round as in a fray, 
— He seemed unconscious of aU passing there. 
Till some one, with a groan, expressed a wish 
(Unheeded twice j to have a fin of fish. 
On which, at the third asking of the banns, 
He started ; and perceiving smiles around 
Broadening to grins, he coloured more than once ; 
And hastily — as nothing can confound 
A wise man more than laughter from a dunce — 
Inflicted on the dish a deadly wound, 
And with such hurry, that ere he could curb it, 
He had paid his neighbour's prayer with half a Turbot. 
This was no bad mistake, as it occurred. 
The supplicator being an amateur ; 
But others, who were left with scarce a third. 
Were angry — as they well might, to be sure." 

Nothing in bad taste ever escaped the castigation of 
the Noble Bard. Public dinners are alone tolerated on 
the score of public duty, by either the Donor, or the 
Partaker ; the only plan, therefore, is to endeavour to 
make the ceremony as agreeable as possible, by intro- 
ducing " garniture " on the table pleasing to the eye and 
senses. Substituting "Pieces Montees," containing well- 
arranged bouquets of flowers, and dried fruits, instead 



62 LONDON AND UVBBPOOL AT TABLE. 

of cold, claminy, greasy entrees and flank dishes. In- 
deed, turning from the old to the modern style of serving 
dinners, is like turning from the scrutiny of Rembrandt's 
celebrated picture of the " Anatomist" at the Hague, to 
gaze on a picturesque " Claude." 

At an old-fashioned country dinner, the removal of 
dishes and table-cloth is most tedious and oppressive. 
So much so, that when the dessert is at length fairly on 
the mahogany f the servants withdrawn, and the decanters 
put in motion, one is apt to commit a solecism, and 
paraphrase Shakspeare : — 

Now is the winter of onr discontent 
Made glorious summer by this handywork. 



A COLLECTION 



OF 



TRUISMS FOE THE MILLION. 



A Sabbath well spent 
Brings a week of content, 

And health for the toils of the morrow ; 
But a Sabhath profaned, 
Whatsoe'er may be gained. 

Is a certain forerunner of sorrow. 

Sir Matthew Hale. 

God helps them that help themselves. 

Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears ; 
while the key often used is always bright. 

If you love life, do not squander time; for that's the 
stuff that life is made of. 



64 LONDON AND LIVERPOOL AT TABLE. 

The sleeping fox catches no poultry, and there will be 
sleeping enough in the grave. 

If time be above all things the most precious, wasting 
time must be the greatest prodigality. 

Lost time is never found again ; and what we call time 
enough, always proves little enough. 

Sloth makes all things difficult ; but industry, all easy. 

He that riseth late must trot all day, and shall scarce 
overt£ike his business at night ; while laziness travels so 
slowly, that poverty soon overtakes him. 

He that lives upon hope wiQ die fasting. 

There are no gains without pains. 

He that hath a trade, hath an estate ; and he that hath 
a calling, hath an office of profit and honour. 

At the working man's house, hunger looks in, but dare 
not enter. 

Industry pays debts, but despair increaseth them. 

Diligence is the mother of good luck. 

One to-day is worth two to-morrows. 

Have you somewhat to do to-morrow, do it to-day. 



LONDON AND LTVEEPOOL AT TABLE. 65 

Let not the sun look down and say, Inglorious, here we 

list. 

I- 

The oat in gloves catches no mice. 

Employ thy time well if thou meanest to gain leisure ; 
and, since thou art not siure of a minute, throw not away 
an hour. 

Trouhles spring from idleness, and grevious toils irom 
needless ease; many without labour would live by their 
wits only, but they break for want of stock. 

He that by the plough would thrive, 
Himself must either hold or drive. 

The eye of a master will do more work than the hands 
of two servants. 

Want of care does us more damage than the want of 
knowledge. 

Not to overlook workmen is to leave them your purse 
open. 

If you would have a faithful servant, and one that you 
like, serve yourself. 

If a man knows not how to save as he gets, he may keep 
his nose all his Hfe to the grindstone, and not die worth a 
groat at last 



66 LONDON AND LIYEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

A fat kitchen maketh a lean will. 

If you would be wealthy, think of saving as well as ot^ 
getting, . 

Women, wine, game, and deceit. 

Make the wealth small, and the want great 

What maintains one vice, would bring up two children. 

Beware of little expenses ; a small leak will sink a great 
ship. 

Who dainties love, shall beggars prove. 

Buy what thou hast no need of, and ere long thou shalt 
sell thy necessaries. 

It is foolish to lay out money in the purchase of repent- 
ance. 

Wise men learn by others' harms: fools scarcely by 
their own. 

After feasting cometh sorrow, 

The glad night hath the weary morrow. 

Snk and satins, scarlet and velvet, put out the kitchen 
fire. 

A ploughman on his legs is higher than a genUemau on 
his knees. 



« 



LONDON AND LIVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 67 

A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty 
years can never he spent ; hut always taking out of the 
> meal-tuh, and never putting in, soon comes to the hottom. 

When the well is dry, they know the wartih of water. 

If you would know the value of money, go and try and 
borrow some. 

It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all 
that follow it. 

Lying rides upon debt's back. 

It is hard for an empty purse to stand upright. 

Creditors have better memories than debtors. 

Those have a short Lent, who owe money due at Easter* 

For age and want save while you may, 
No morning sun lasts a whole day. 

It is easier to build two chimneys, than to keep one in 
fuel. 

Bather go to bed supperless, than rise in debt. 

Get what you can, and what you get hold ; 

'Tis the stone that will turn all your lead into gold. 



68 LOimON AKD UVEBPOOL AT TABLE. 

Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in 
no other, and scarcely in that, for we may give advice, but 
wc cannot give conduct 

They that will not be counselled cannot be helped. If 
you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knudUes. 

A penny saved is twopence clear; 
A pin a day is a groat a year. 

There are but two rules for catching and keeping money. 

Ist Let honesty and industry be thy constant com- 
panions. 

2nd. Spend one penny less than thy clear gains. 



TBB END. 



