A-^^. 



O 0^ 

of' 



* '. . ^ ^^- 



V 












•/.. .a\^ 



:5, " ' , V -^ ,0^ 



'^-"./\-?^;V"'^;o^ 



.Oo, 



^ ^M 



m 






,0 ^-■\_ 



C^. 


'' « 1 


1 \ " >: 


^ 




O' 






.•=^"^" 




'C' 


^*^' - 


- 


./ 


"/ 












■r-'-. '. 



.^^^ 









vO o^ 












-^^S^ 

s^'^ 









0^ ^ 



o^- 



s^ % 



-V- 



^,. .^^^ 






^.' 



3^ 



o 0' 



"^^ v^ I: 



sOo. 












a" 






-x\ 



^'' o>' 



'>r 



'./■ .\X 









t- ^„ .-v>:<' 



■.^' •^, 



<.''»-^A^ . 



THE 



SOUTHERN GARDENER 



RECEIPT-BOOK, 



CONTAINING 



VALUABLE INFORMATION, ORIGINAL AND OTHERWISE, 
ON ALL SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH 

DOMESTIC AND KURAL AFFAIRS, 

GARDENING, COOKERY, BEVERAGES, DAIRY, MEDICAL, 
VETERINARY AND MISCELLANEOUS. 



THIRD EDITION, 

REVISED AND CORRECTED BY 

MRS. MARY L. EDGEWORTH. 



PHILADELPHIA : 

J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO, 

1859. 



A> 



<^- 



-' a- ' 



Entered, according to tbe Act of Congress, in tlie year 1859, by 

S. C. EDGEWORTU, 

in tbe Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District 

of Georgia. 



/ 



?/ 



THIS VOLUME 



Es atfectfonatels 19clrfcatcD 



RS. ELIZABETH THORNTON, 



CAMDEN, SOUTH CAROLINA, 



MARK OF ESTEEM FOR HER EXALTED WORTH 



IN ALL THE RELATIONS OF LIFE. 



M. L. E. 



(vii) 



PREFACE 

TO THE THIRD EDITION, 



The general favor with which the first two editions of this 
book were received by the public ; the very frequent demands 
for it since all the copies have been disposed of; together 
with the numerous solicitations of my friends for its republi- 
cation, have induced me to undertake a task which, I trust, 
will prove as valuable to others as it has been agreeable 
to me. 

To the present edition are added many original receipts, 
as well as some that have been carefully selected ; all of 
which, together with those in the former editions, have been 
thoroughly tested, and their value well ascertained. 

The aim of the author has been to present to the public, 
in a plain, concise and^giccessible form, information on all sub- 
jects appertaining to domestic and rural affairs, avoiding, as 
far as possible, technical language. Although the gatherings 
from a field so extensive must necessarily be numerous, yet 
the whole has been so systematically classed, and each sub- 
ject so arranged under its appropriate head, that the desired 
information may be found without trouble. Those receipts 
which could not, with propriety, be elsewhere arranged, have 
been placed under the head of Miscellaneous. 

■ (ix) 



X PREFACE. 

The directions for Gardening were written expressly for 
this work by Mr. Phineas Thornton, of Camden, South 
Carolina, well known as one of the best gardeners of the 
South. Having been engaged in the business about forty 
years, his long experience, faithfully recorded, cannot be 
otherwise than valuable. These directions are not, as the 
title would indicate, limited in their usefulness to the South 
only ; but, on the contrary, will prove equally applicable to 
all sections of our country, with some little variation in time, 
dependent on latitude or climate. 

For the Medical department, prescriptions and receipts 
have been collected from the most reliable sources. My hus- 
band (a practising physician) has contributed a number of 
prescriptions for special diseases, which, from several years' 
successful use, can be confidently recommended. 

In the department of Cookery, much pains has been taken 
in proportioning the recipes, so as to adapt them to the 
tastes, requirements and means of all. Since so much of 
health, happiness and domestic comfort depends upon the 
proper preparation of our daily food, it should be the pride 
and pleasure of every housekeeper to cook well. To assist 
in acquiring this skill, something new will be found in this 
book. 

Mary L. Edgeworth. 

Fort Vallet, ' 
Houston County, 
Georgia. 



CONTENTS. 



GARDENING Page 13 

COOKERY 97 

Curing andCooking Meats 97 

Soups 126 

Pickles and Sauces 137 

Vegetables 154 

Bread, Cakes, &c 163 

Puddings, Pies, &c 204 

Preserves and Jellies 233 

Preparations for the Sick 247 

BEVERAGES 255 

THE DAIRY 271 

Profits of Cow-keeping 271 

MEDICAL RECEIPTS 281 

VETERINARY RECEIPTS 325 

MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 393 



For complete Alphabetical Index, see end of the Volume. 

(zi) 



THE 

SOUTHERN GARDENER 

AND 

RECEIPT BOOK. 
GARDENING. 

TO CHOOSE THE BEST SOIL FOR A GARDEN. 

Prefer a sandy loam, not less than two feet deep, 
and good earth, not of a binding nature in summer, 
nor retentive of rain in winter ; hut of such a texture, 
that it can be worked without difficulty at any season 
of the year. There are few sorts of fruit-trees, or 
esculent vegetables, which require less depth of earth 
to grow in than two feet, to bring them to perfection, 
and if the earth of the kitchen-garden be three or 
more feet deep, so much the better; for where the 
plants are in a state of maturity, if the roots, even of 
peas, spinach, kidney-beans, lettuce, &c., be minutely 
traced, they will be found to penetrate into the earth, 
in search of food, to the depth of two feet, provided 
the soil be of a nature that allows them. If it can be 
done, a garden should be made on land the bottom 
of which is not of a springy, wet nature. If this rule 
can be observed, draining will be unnecessary, for 
2 (13) 



14 GARDENINU. 

when land is well prepared for the growth of fruit- 
trees and esculent vegetables, by trenching, manur- 
ing, and digging, it is by these means brought into 
Buch a porous temperament, that rain passes through 
without being detained longer than is necessary. 
When land is of too strong a nature, it should be well 
mixed with gravel and sand. 

TO PREPARE HOT-BEDS, MANURES AND COMPOSTS. 

Stable manure is in the most general use for form- 
ing hot-beds — which are masses of this manure after 
it has undergone its violent fermentation. Leaves, 
especially oak-leaves, when perfectly decayed, form a 
rich mould, or excellent manure. The object of 
preparation in these substances, is to get rid of the 
violent heat produced when the fermentation is going 
on. It is obvious that that preparation must consist 
in facilitating the process. 

For this purpose a certain degree of moisture and 
air in the fermenting bodies is requisite; and hence 
the business of the gardener is, to turn them over 
frequently, and apply water, when the process appears 
impeded, and exclude rain, when chilled with too 
much water. Stable manure i^equires to lie a month 
or longer in ridges or beds, and to be turned over in 
that time thrice, before it is fit for cucumber beds of 
common construction. Tan bark and leaves require 
a month also. 

Fermentation is always more rapid in summer; 
and if the materials are spread abroad during frost, it 
is totally impeded. Ashes are often used with ma- 
nure, and promote the steadiness and duration of 
their heat. 



GARDENING. 15 

SOWING SEED. 

The usual cause of seed not growing, is owing to 
their not being well rolled or pressed. When sowing 
on a large scale, rolling would be more expeditious ; 
but for small sowings, the following may answer as a 
substitute : — 

After the seed is sown, and the ground raked 
evenly, take a board of the length of the bed ; lay it 
flat on the ground, and walk the whole length of the 
board. This will press the soil on the seed. Then 
shift the board till you have thus gone over the whole 
bed. In dry, warm weather, cover your seed-beds 
for two or three days with boards laid flat on the soil, 
or green pine boughs, taking care to remove them at 
night that the beds may have air and the night dew. 
By this method the seed will soon vegetate and grow. 
Late in the spring, or during summer, seed should 
not be sown or planted, unless there be a good season 
of rain, or the ground be sufiiciently moist. In 
a dry time the ground might be well watered over 
night, and sow or plant the following morning. In 
this case the seed should be previously soaked in 
soft rain-water from twelve to forty-eight hours, par- 
ticularly beets, as they are difiicult to get up when 
sown late in the season, on account of their hard shell 
or covering. Therefore they should have fortj'-eight 
hours' soaking, letting them stand in the sun to keep 
the water warm. Parsnips or carrots might be soaked 
the same length of time. 

GERMINATION OF GARDEN SEED. 

M. Humboldt has made several experiments on the 
subject of the germination of seed in the oxymuriatic 
acid, or oxalic acid diluted with water, and has found 



H) 



GARDENING. 



that this acid has a remarkable effect in accelerating 
the progress of vegetation. Cress seed, when thrown 
into this fluid at the temperature of 88°, showed germs 
in three hours, while none were seen in water in 
twenty-six hours. Professor Pohl, at Dresden, pro- 
duced in this manner vegetation from dried seed one 
hundred years old ; and Messrs. Jacquere and Vanden 
Schott, at Vienna, have caused the growth of old 
seed in the botanical garden, which have resisted 
every other method. 

VEGETATION OF GARDEN SEED. 

The number of years during which different Garden Seed will retain the 
vegetative principle. 



YEARS. 

Artichoke 3 

Asparagus 4 

Balm 2 

Basil 2 

Beau 1 

Beet 10 

Borage 4 

Broccoli 4 

Burnet 6 

Cabbage 4 

Camomile 2 

Caraway... i 4 

Carrot 1 

Cauliflower 4 

Celery 10 

Chervil 6 

Cives 3 

Corn 3 

Corn Salad 2 

Coriander 3 

Cress 2 

Cucumber 10 

Dandelion 10 

Dock 1 



TEARS. 

Endive 4 

Fennel 5 

Gallic 3 

Gourd 10 

Hop.., 2 

Horseradish 4 

Hyssop 6 

Jerusalem Arti- 
choke 3 

Lavender 2 

Leek 2 

Lettuce 3 

Marigold 2 

Melon 10 

Mint 4 

Mustard 4 

Mangel Wurzel ... 10 

Marjoram . 4 

Nasturtion 2 

Onion 2 

Parsley 6 

Pea 1 

Parsnip 1 

Pennyroyal 2 



YEARS. 

Potato 3 

Pumpkin . 10 

Purslain 2 

Radish 2 

Rampion 2 

Rape 4 

Rhubarb 1 

Rosemary 3 

Rue 3 

Ruta Baga 4 

Salsify 2 

Samphire 3 

Summer Savorj' .. 2 

Scorzenera 2 

Shalot 4 

Sherret 4 

Sorrel 7 

Spinach 4 

Squash 10 

Tansy 8 

Thyme 2 

Tomato 2 

Turnip G 

Wormwood 2 



GAKDENING. 17 



TO SAVE SEEDS. 

All seeds save better in their seed-vessels, but this 
can rarely be done, on account of the great space 
occupied. As soon therefore as the pods of cabbages, 
turnips, radishes, &c., turn brown and a part become 
dry, the stems should be cut and laid on a cloth or 
floor to dry, afterwards threshed out and hung up in 
bags in a dry room. 

ASPARAGUS 

May be sown any time during the month of March, 
in a small bed of light, rich soil, drilled in rows nine 
inches apart, which would be preferable to broad-cast, 
on account of hoeing and keeping them clear of weeds, 
covering them one inch deep ; should the weather 
prove dry, water them occasionally. In twelve months 
(or say in the month of February, after the plants are 
up), they may be set out in beds six feet wide, by 
twenty-five or thirty feet in length, with walks two- 
and-a-half feet wide between each bed, sufficient to 
admit a wheelbarrow. The beds are previously pre- 
pared by spading to the depth of twelve or fifteen 
inches. After the bed is leveled and raked fine, pro- 
ceed to lay it ofi" in trenches, across the bed, two feet 
apart from each other, each trench to be dug fifteen 
inches wide and two-and-a-half feet deep, laying up 
the soil in ridges between each trench. Should the 
natural soil not be good to that depth, the inferior at 
the bottom may be removed and carried off: after this 
is done, throw in eighteen inches of well-rotted stable 
manure ; after leveling the same, add two inches of 
soil on the manure, taken from the sides which were 
2* 



18 GARDENING. 

thrown out of the ridges ; level this also and rake it 
finely, and all is ready for planting. 

Then be careful in selecting such plants only as 
have good fiber, and a fine bold crown; in setting 
out, place them eighteen inches apart, and lay out 
the fiber in regular order, and not tumble them to- 
gether, as is too often done, to the great injury of the 
plants. When this is done, cover them with two 
inches more of the soil from the sides of the ridges, 
as before, and the work is done. Plants eighteen 
months or two years old would be preferable, as they 
would be more vigorous. The plants throughout the 
summer must be kept clear of weeds, and occasion- 
ally hoed, and the loose dirt gradually thrown in from 
the sides of the ridges. By these operations, and the 
summer rains, the trenches will by October be filled 
up as level as the bed was before setting out the roots. 
Upon the approach of cold weather, and after the tops 
have been killed by frost, they should be cut down 
even with the ground and carried oft"; the bed should 
then be covered with two or three inches of coarse 
stable manure, partly rotten, which should remain on 
the bed until spring, when it must be forked, or hoed 
carefully into the surface of the bed so as not to injure 
the crowns of the roots. Just before the shoots make 
their appearance in the spring, the beds should be 
carefully raked free from weeds. 

No kind of vegetable seed should be sown in the 
beds between the plants, as it exhausts the good- 
ness of the soil. The first year after planting the 
bed, a few of the strongest shoots may be cut, but it 
should be sparingly, as the roots will be all the 
better afterward. Continue to pursue the same system 
of culture every year, and the roots will rapidly in- 



GARDENING. 19 

crease in vigor. Beds prepared in this manner, and 
yearly attended to, will last many years, and the pro- 
duce will be of a superior quality. Asparagus thrives 
in a light, rich soil, neither too wet nor too dry. 
There are two or three varieties of this plant, but the 
giant asparagus is the largest and most productive. 
By analysis it is ascertained that the elements of 
asparagus are mainly supplied by bone manure and 
superphosphate of lime. 

ARTICHOKE. 

This is a perennial plant, a fine vegetable for table 
use, and highly esteemed by many. There are two 
or three varieties. The largest globe has a dusky, 
purplish head; the dwarfish globe is a prolific variety, 
and valuable as occupying less room with its head. 
They are propagated by suckers, or by seed. The 
seed may be sown any time during the month of 
March, in small beds of tolerably light, good soil, 
drilled in rows twelve inches apart. In order to pro- 
cure good thrifty plants, the seed should be dropped 
singly nine or ten inches apart, and covered two 
inches deep ; work them occasionally, keeping the 
ground loose and light, and free from weeds. About 
the last of August, or early in September, the plants 
may be set out in large beds of a deep, rich, light soil, 
moist but not wet, giving the plants three feet space 
each way, being careful that the hearts do not get 
covered with the earth. It would be well to have the 
beds situated so as to have a gentle slope, sufficient 
to carry ofi" any superfluous moisture or water that 
might accumulate during the winter or spring. If 
the slope of the beds were to face the south, it might 
hasten the vegetation of the plants so as to produce 



20 GARDENING. 

heads for use the following summer. Late in the 
fall, or about the last of November, when vegetation 
has ceased, the dead leaves may be removed from the 
plants, and the beds covered with a good coat of ma- 
nure from the stable, partly rotten, with fine straw, or 
other coarse litter, to the depth of two or three inches, 
observing that the plants be lightly covered. Bone 
dust and wood ashes also improve the soil. In the 
spring, before the plants begin to vegetate, the beds 
may be lightly spaded, or hoed, so as not to injure 
the plants, and raked finely afterward, in order to de- 
stroy all superfluous weeds. The ground should be 
worked occasionally during the spring and summer, 
so as to be kept light and loose, and free from weeds. 
By the above mode and treatment, the plants will 
bear and do well for six or seven years. After the 
plants have been bearing two years, the stocks may 
be examined in the spring (say the last of February), 
and two or three of the strongest or best shoots being 
selected for growing, the rest are removed with a 
knife or chisel. These shoots or suckers may be 
transplanted into new beds, as before described. 
"When all the heads from a stem are taken, cut off" the 
stem close to the ground, to give the plant more 
strength for new shoots. 

The plant called Jerusalem artichoke is not pro- 
perly an artichoke, and would not be ranked as a 
vegetable for the table. Its root, which is similar to 
a potato, contains but very little nutriment, therefore 
is but of little value. The growth of the plant or 
stalk resembles the sunflower, and is of the easiest 
possible cultivation ; will grow in almost any soil, and 
when it has once got possession of the ground it is 
very diflacult to eradicate : as hogs will eat them, they 



G A 11 D E N I N G . 21 

are sometimes cultivated for that purpose. For a 
crop, they may be planted after the ground is well 
ploughed, any time in March, in drills two and a half 
or three feet apart, and may be planted and worked 
as corn crops, hilling them a little when worked with 
a hoe. They may be cut in two or three pieces like 
potatoes, and dropped in the drills twelve inches 
apart, and covered two or three inches deep. They 
will produce more abundantly in a strong, light clay 
soil. As the root is firm and hard, they are some- 
times made use of for pickles. 

BEETS 

May be sown the last of February, or early in 
March, and in order for a succession of crops, they 
may be sown till the last of April, in beds prepared 
of a light, strong, rich soil, and spaded to the depth 
of twelve or fifteen inches, and made four or five feet 
wide. After the beds are leveled and raked finel}'-, 
they may be drilled in rows, twenty inches apart. 
The seed may be dropped singly five or six inches 
apart, and covered two inches deep. As the plants 
will admit, thin out to stand singly twelve or fifteen 
inches apart. In order to have large thrifty plants, 
the ground should be frequently worked, and made 
very light and loose, and kept free from weeds. 
Should the fall season prove favorable by not being 
dry, they might be sown from the first to the tenth 
of August, and come to perfection before the winter 
sets in ; but the early sowing is most favorable to this 
climate. Beets sown in a light, dry soil, after the 
month of March, should be soaked thirty-six hours, 
and kept in the sun in the course of the day, to keep 
the water warm; after the seed is sown and raked 



22 GARDENING. 

in, the ground should be well pressed. When the 
beets have their full growth, which may be noted by 
their tops being decayed or dead, they may be dug 
up, and preserved by being packed away in light, 
dry sand, either in boxes or barrels. It would be well 
to spread them on the ground for a day or two, in the 
shade, to give them air to evaporate the surplus 
moisture. Prepare the soil the autumn before plant- 
ing with common salt and unleached ashes, 

BEANS. 

Bush beans of all descriptions, if the spring be 
favorable, may be planted the first of April, and in 
order for a succession of crops, they should be planted 
once in two or three weeks till the last of May, in a 
light, rich soil, in trenches from two to two-and-a-half 
feet apart, covered two inches ; and when the plants 
will admit, hoe and thin them out to stand four or 
five inches apart. Bush beans, for a full crop, may 
be planted from the fifteenth of July to the twentieth 
of August. Pole beans, of all descriptions, may be 
planted from the fifth of April to the last of May, in 
drills from three to five feet apart, according to the 
height they run ; and as the plants will admit, thin 
them out to stand from nine to twelve inches apart. 
Two beans or vines may be admitted to run to one 
pole. Sometimes they are planted in hills from three 
to four feet apart each way, and three or four beans 
may be planted in a hill, but only two thrifty vines 
left to run to one pole. Those kinds which do not 
run so much, may be planted with corn when about 
six inches in height, and if the soil be light and strong, 
will do well ; but when this method is adopted, the 
corn should be planted in drills or trenches from four 



GARDENING. 23 

to five feet apart, and the corn thinned out, leaving a 
space of two feet between each stalk. Then plant two 
or three to each stalk, leaving only two or three 
thrifty plants to run. Lima beans might be planted 
with advantage in a single row, along a border on 
each side of a walk, and poles might be bent over in 
the form of an arch for them to run on. By this 
means they might be easily gathered when grown. 
They are one of the best kind of shell beans for table 
use, and require a good, strong, light soil. They will 
bear till frost, and will stand the dry weather much 
better than any other kind, and are, therefore, the 
most profitable crop. They may be gathered in the 
fall, after they become dry, and laid away for winter 
use. By soaking them in soft water over-night, pre- 
vious to cooking them, they will boil very sweet and 
tender, and are very fine for soup. As they are more 
tender than other varieties, they should not be planted 
sooner than the tenth or fifteenth of April. Windsor 
beans are one of those varieties that are very hardy, 
and will stand the winter frost For early spring use, 
the}^ may be planted from the first to the middle of 
October, in a strong, rich soil, in trenches from two 
and a half to three feet apart, and covered three inches 
deep ; and when the plants will admit, they may be 
thinned out so as to stand from six to eight inches 
apart, and for a succession of crops they might be 
planted again the last of February and early in March. 
Wood-ashes and bone-dust, or superphosphate of lime, 
are suitable fertilizers. 

BORECOLE 

Is a species of cabbage, and one of those hardy 
plants, the leaves of which may be cut without injury 



24 GARDENING. 

to its growth, and will produce a new crop in the 
course of a month or six weeks. Thej may be sown 
in small beds, made light and loose, about the last of 
February, or any time during the month of March, 
in drills nine inches apart, and covered one inch deep. 
In order to have good, thrifty plants, and of a regular 
size, thin them out a little soon after they are up, and 
in a few days more thin them ont again, so as to give 
the plants three or four inches space; and when the 
plants will admit, they may be set out in beds or 
squares previously dug, and made light and loose, at 
the distance of two-and-a-half feet apart each way. 
It should be observed that the land must be well 
manured, and in a high state of tillage, for the culti- 
vation of this plant, which, if kept constantly hoed, 
will grow very luxuriantly, and in the hottest ^^'eather 
be infinitely more brittle in the leaves than any other 
kind cultivated in gardens, which is a certain indica- 
tion of its being a healthy plant. It is worthy of the 
attention of the farmer or grazier on occount of the 
rapidity of its growth and the property of withstand- 
ing the effect of severe frost, while it affords an excel- 
lent vegetable for the table, and may be used with 
advantage for feeding cows and sheep. There are 
several species of this plant, but the green curled 
borecole is the hardiest and best. 

BROCCOLI. 

A species of cabbage cultivated for the use of the 
table. There are several kinds of this plant, but the 
purple Cape Broccoli is said to be the best. It may 
be sown about the latter end of February or early in 
March, in any tolerable soil, in drills eight or nine 
inches apart, and covered one inch deep ; and when 



GARDENING. 25 

plants have germinated eight leaves, they should be 
transplanted into nursery beds, in rows twelve inches 
apart, and the plants five or six inches from each 
other. By this means the plants would have a more 
regular, stout growth. Should the weather prove dry, 
they might be frequently watered, which should be 
done at night, observing to stir the ground loose 
around the plants the following morning; and in 
order to make them flourish and grow, they should 
be kept in a good state of tillage, and free from weeds 
during the whole growth. About the first of May 
■they may be set out in large beds of a light, strong 
soil, and well sheltered, or where the shade would 
strike them early in the day, giving them a few hours 
of the early morning sun : give the plants two feet 
space from each other. As our summers frequently 
prove too hot and dry for the early sowing and plant- 
ing of this vegetable to mature and come to perfec- 
tion, they might be sown about the middle of July, 
on shady beds or borders, and watered occasionally 
should the weather prove dry, observing when the 
plants are well up to thin them out six or eight inches 
apart, to give them a good regular growth ; and about 
the middle of August they might be set out in beds, 
as above described. They would then be apt to flower 
and head well before the hard weather set in. Should 
the winter prove mild, they would continue to head 
and put out during the winter season. Broccoli re- 
quires the same manures as cabbage. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

The early cauliflower may be sown from the tenth 
to the last of February, in any tolerable soil, in drills 
six inches apart, and covered one inch deep : and 
3 



26 GARDENING. 

when they produce three leaves they may be put into 
nursery beds, as the broccoli, and about the last of 
April set out or transplanted, where they may remain, 
giving them a good, light soil. The late cauliflower 
may be sown about the last of April, and set out in 
nursery beds as above ; and about the last of June, 
may be set out where they are to remain, giving 
them a space of two feet each way. Those that are 
headed must have the heads shaded by breaking the 
large leaves over them. 

CARROTS. 

For summer use, may be sown from the middle of 
February to the last of March, in beds prepared four 
feet wide, of a light, rich soil, drilled in rows twelve 
inches apart, and covered one inch deep. As soon 
as the plants are well up, they may be thinned out, to 
stand one or two inches apart, and as they advance a 
little in size, thin them out to stand three or four 
inches from each other. By this mode, and frequently 
stirring the ground finely, the roots will be of a regu- 
lar and good size. For winter and spring use, carrots 
may be sown from the first to the last of August, and 
treated as above. 

Carrots should not be sown late in the spring, and 
early in the fall, unless there be a good season of rain, 
observing to roll or press the ground after the seeds 
are raked in. The salt and lime mixture, composted 
with leaf-mould, a little plaster of Paris, bone-dust, 
and wood-ashes, are the special manures. 

EARLY CABBAGE 

May be sown the last of January, or early in Feb- 
ruary, in warm beds of any tolerably light soil, either 



G A 11 D E N I N G . 27 

in broad-cast, or in drills nine inches apart, which 
would be preferable, on account of hoeing and keep- 
ing them free from weeds : cover them one inch deep, 
and when the plants are well up, the}^ may be thinned 
out to stand two or three inches apart. By this means 
they will be more thrifty, and regular in size. When 
the plants will admit, they may be set out in beds of 
rich mould, previously made loose and light, each 
plant two feet apart. 

Late cabbage may be sown the last of May, or any 
time in June, and remain in the beds till August be- 
fore transplanting, and may be set out in the same 
manner as the early ones. 

Green glazed cabbage may be sown any time in 
February or March, and treated as the others, only 
giving them a little more space when transplanted. 
Early cabbage, sown from the twentieth of Septem- 
ber, to the first of October, on a warm border, would 
produce heads two or three weeks earlier, should the 
winter prove favorable, and not too severe. 

RAISING CABBAGE FROM CUTTINGS. 

A neighbor of ours tells us, that he, accidentally, 
raised some fine cabbage from cuttings last year. 
Some pieces of old stumps happened to be buried in 
the spring, at the proper depth. They soon sent up 
shoots (one each) at an early day, and formed excel- 
lent heads. There was no tendency to seed, any more 
than from plants obtained in the usual way. 

To try the experiment of getting early cabbage in 
this way, cut the stump into small pieces, with one 
bud on each ; plant and cultivate them as you would 
plants from the seed. 



28 GARDENING. 



TO KILL LICE ON CABBAGE. 

Last year I had one quarter of an acre of cabbage 
that were nearly covered with the cabbage-louse. I 
took off the outside leaves, and burned them. Having 
a few gallons of very strong tobacco liquor (left after 
sheep-shearing,) which I diluted by adding soap-suds 
from the wash, I sprinkled the plants very thoroughly 
from a watering-pot. I believe it killed every louse, 
for I did not discover one afterwards. 

TO DESTROY WORMS ON CABBAGE. 

Tobacco-leaves strewn upon and among cabbage 
are said to be effectual in preventing the ravages of 
cabbage- worms. 

SOLID CELERY 

May be sown in March, on a small bed of light 
rich soil, in drills six or nine inches apart, and cover- 
ed lightly. When the plants are up to the height of 
an inch or two, they may be thinned out to stand 
three or four inches apart, so as to give them a regu- 
lar, good growth. Should the weather prove dry, the 
plants may be occasionally watered at night, observing 
to stir the ground between the plants the following 
morning. AVhen the plants are from six to nine inches 
in height, and have acquired a stocky growth, they 
may be set out in a very rich, moist soil, previously 
prepared, in trenches three feet apart and a spade 
deep : lay the earth on each side of the trenches, and 
dig the bottom, leaving them level : place the plants 
along the trenches upright six inches apart, and water 
them, should the weather prove dry afterwards; they 
might be shaded in the day for two or three days till 



GARDENING. 29 

they have taken root. In three or four weeks draw 
the eartli to each side of the plants, breaking it fine : 
do this in dry weatlier, and be careful not to bury the 
hearts: repeat the earthing once in ten or twelve days 
till the plants are fit for use. In order for a succession 
of crops they may be sown in April and May, and 
treated as above. Seeds sown later than April should 
be sown in a moist, shady situation, and the ground 
well pressed. As they are sometimes diflicult to get 
up when sown late, it might be well to water the beds 
for three or four evenings, should the weather prove 
dry, and cover them in the day with green pine boughs. 
Salt and ashes would be a good manure. 

CURLED CRESS, OR PEPPERGRASS, 

May be sown the last of March, or early in April, 
in beds of a tolerably good soil, in drills six inches 
apart, and covered lightly ; and in order for a succes- 
sion of crops it may be sown once in two or three 
weeks, till the last of May. 

Garden cress may be sown as above, only give it 
nine inches space between the drills, and as soon as 
well up thin them out so that the plants may stand 
single two or three inches apart. 

CUCUMBERS, 

For early use, may be planted about the first of 
April, in a good, warm, light soil : should the nights 
prove cool about the time they should come up, or 
after, the hills may be covered with straw at night, 
and removed in the day, when the sun is up, so as to 
warm the hills. For a succession of crops, the long 
green may be planted for pickling the last of May, 
3* 



30 GARDENING. 

and early in June, in a moist soil, so it be light and 
good ; the early sort in hills four feet apart each way ; 
and the long green, or late sort, in hills six feet apart 
each way, leaving only one thrifty plant in a hill to 
grow. Put no fresh manure in the hills, as it is too 
powerful, and will cause them to wilt and die. If 
the soil be light and poor, make up hills about two 
feet square, by throwing out the soil to the depth of 
fifteen or eighteen inches ; then fill up the hole with 
good rich mould, well pulverized : a little of the top 
soil first taken ofi:" might be mixed with the mould 
near the top, observing to leave the hill only a little 
above the level of the ground. In order that they 
may be kept in a flourishing state, and bear till late, 
the ground must be kept loose and free from weeds, 
and no cucumber suftered to remain on the vine till 
full grown, except such as are wanted for seed. 
Should the weather prove very dry, they might be oc- 
casionally watered at night, by filling a small trench 
— made before the vines commence running — with 
water, that it may run to the roots. This is prefer- 
able to sprinkling water on the tops of the hills, or 
plants, as the vines are very tender. The seeds should 
not be planted till the ground is warm ; they will then 
come up quick, and grow without any obstruction ; 
otherwise, if they come up, and get stunted by thd cold, 
they do not flourish well afterwards. For a fall crop 
for pickling, they might be planted the last of July, 
and early in August. To save cucumbers from the 
streaked bug, plant an onion in each hill. 

When cucumbers are planted later than the month 
of April, it would be well to spread a coat of fine 
straw on the ground between the hills, to the depth 
of three or four inches, immediately after a rain. 



GARDENING. 31 

By this method they would not suffer by the drought ; 
and if the season prove wet, the vines will not be 
so liable to rot. 

NOVEL METHOD OF RAISING CUCUMBERS. 

After all that the doctors have said against cucum- 
bers, they are still a welcome dish upon most tables, 
and, when eaten in moderation, are probably health- 
ful. That they are not so when eaten immoderately, 
is, we have no doubt, also true. Cucumbers are most 
sought after early in the season, and we will now 
proceed to tell how we managed last year to have 
them in perfection long before they were plentiful in 
market. 

Having cleared the soil to the depth of twelve or 
fifteen inches from a space four feet in diameter, we 
placed an old nail-keg in the centre, and filled up 
around with fresh manure, and covered it over with 
six or eight inches of earth, forming a mound of a 
foot or more in height, and six feet in diameter, with 
the open-ended keg in the centre, into which in very 
dry weather we could pour water, which would escape 
into the manure through the openings, and prevent 
the perishing of the vines. The seeds were planted 
in the mound (not in the keg, for that was empty) in 
March or in April, and the heat of the fermenting 
manure forced them vigorously. We had heavy frost 
afterward, and the surface of the earth was completely 
frozen ; but it was only necessary to lay a board over 
the plants, and the warmth below was amply sufiacient 
to protect them. The only object in using the keg 
was to prevent the water from running off and form- 
ing gutters down the sides of the mound. The plan 
worked well, and as it may be advantageous to 



32 GARDENING. 

others also, we publish it for the general benefit. 
A frame for the vines to run upon is advantageous. 

EGG PLANT 

May be sown on a warm border about the first of 
April, in drills nine inches-ifpart, and covered one inch 
deep ; and where the plants will admit, they may be 
set out in beds of a light, rich soil, giving them two 
feet space each way between the plants ; hoe, and 
keep them free from weeds, and as they advance in 
size draw a little earth around the stems. There are 
two varieties of this plant, the white and the purple : 
the latter is preferable for table use ; the white is more 
for ornament, as the growth is not so large. The 
plants may be set out eighteen inches apart. They 
make a handsome ornament for the flower-pot. 

GHERKINS 

May be planted from the middle of April to the last 
of May, in any tolerable soil, so that it is light and 
warm, in hills six or eight feet apart, leaving but one 
thrifty plant in a hill to grow. If they be kept free 
from weeds, and the summer is moderately dry, they 
will bear abundantly till frost. They are very fine 
for pickles. 

GOURDS 

May be planted from the first to the last of April, 
in a good, light, rich soil, in hills six or eight feet 
apart. And the mammoth gourd may be planted 
from the middle of March to the last of April, in hills 
from eight to ten feet apart. 



GARDENING. 33 

KAIL, 

For early spring greens, may be sown about the 
last of January, in small beds of a light, rich soil, in 
drills twelve inches apart, and covered one inch deep. 
As soon as the plants are well up, thin them out to 
stand two or three inches apart: afterward they may 
be thinned out for use as they advance in size: those 
that remain for seed should have fifteen or eighteen 
inches space. 

LETTUCE, 

For early use, may be sown the last of January on 
warm borders of a light, rich soil, prepared well and 
raked fine, in drills nine inches apart, and covered 
lightly ; and in order that the plants may be fine, and 
of a regular size, thin them out as soon as they are 
well up, to stand three or four inches apart ; stir the 
ground frequently, and keep them free from weeds. 
As soon as the plants will admit, set them out in beds, 
or round the borders, fifteen inches apart; if the 
ground be very rich and light, they will head well. 
In order for a succession they may be sown once in 
three or four weeks till the last of April. Wood- 
ashes, common salt and animal manure will improve 
the soil. 

LAVENDER, SAGE, BALM, TANSY, THYME, RUE, ROSEMARY 
OR OTHER HERBS, 

May be sown by the last of March, or early in 
April, in small beds made light and fine, and drilled 
in rows nine inches apart, and covered one inch deep. 
"When the plants will admit, they may be thinned out, 
to stand four or five inches apart: in the following 
winter, say in January or February, they may be set out 



34 GARDENING. 

in small beds, each plant from eighteen inches to two 
feet apart, according to the size they grow. 

MUSTARD, 

For winter use, may be sown from the middle of 
September to the middle of October, on warm borders 
of a tolerably rich, light soil, and covered lightly in 
drills fifteen inches apart ; for spring use, it may be 
sown again from the middle to the last of February, 
in beds spaded and well prepared, in drills eighteen 
inches apart. In order that the plants may flourish 
and grow quick, thin them out as soon as they are 
well up, to stand two or three inches apart. After- 
wards they may be thinned out as wanted for use. 
Those that are to remain for seed should be thinned 
out to stand twelve or fifteen inches apart. 

NASTURTIONS 

May be sown the last of March, or early in April, 
in a very light, rich soil, in drills four feet apart ; drop 
the seeds three or four inches apart, and cover them 
two inches deep : when the plants will admit, thin 
them out, to stand nine inches apart. The plants 
should be supported from the ground b}' bushy sticks. 
Should the spring be dry, they should be occasionally 
watered in the evening, observing to stir the ground 
around the roots loosely the following morning. In 
a warm climate they would flourish best planted on a 
shady border, where the shade would strike them 
early in the day. The leaves, as well as the fruit, are 
sometimes used for pickles. As it is very ornament- 
al, they might be planted in boxes, with a light, rich 
soil, one seed in a box, and watered every evening 
till they come up, and placed on a shelf on the shady 



GARDENING. 35 

side of the house. They should be watered every 
evening, if the weather be dry, and the ground 
loosened around the plant the following morning. 
By this method the plants will grow very luxuriantly. 

OKRA 

May be planted any time in the month of April, 
in a large bed of light, rich soil, drilled in rows four 
feet apart, and covered one inch deep. When the 
plants will admit, thin them out, to stand one-and-a- 
half or two feet apart, according to the strength of 
the ground. If the okra be planted in drills, six feet 
apart, cucumbers might be planted in hills between 
the rows, and do very well. 

MODE OF RAISING ONIONS IN THE TOWN OF WETHERSFIELD, 
CONNECTICUT. 

The town of "Wethersfield has long been famous 
for the large quantities of onions which are annually 
raised, and exported to the West Indies and the 
southern States. It has been superstitiously supposed 
that there is something in the soil of Wethersfield 
peculiarly adapted to the culture of onions ; and this 
whim has, no doubt, discouraged many from attempt- 
ing the cultivation of this valuable root in other sec- 
tions of the country equally favorable to its growth. 
It is true the soil of Wethersfield is a rich, sandy loam, 
well adapted to horticultural purposes ; but the suc- 
cess of its inhabitants in the cultivation of onions, is 
attributable in a much greater degree to a particular 
virtue in the fingers of its females, than any peculiar 
properties of its soil. 

The business of raising onions in Wethersfield is 
reduced to a perfect system. The following is the 



So GARDENING. 

method of cultivation : Early in the spring, the laud 
is manured by ploughing in fine manure from the 
stable or barn-yard, in the proportion of about ten 
loads to the acre. That of neat cattle is preferred, as 
that of horses is considered of too heating a nature. 
Ashes, bone-dust and the salt and lime mixture are 
also good fertilizers. After the manure is ploughed 
in, the land is well harrowed and laid out in beds five 
feet wide. 

The beds are laid out by turning a furrow toward 
them each way. This raises the bed above the aisles, 
and gives an opportunity for the water to run ofl", 
should there be occasion for it. They are then raked 
with an iron tooth or common hay-rake, and the aisles 
suflered to remain as left by the plough. Thus pre- 
pared, the beds are ready to receive the seed. 

As early as the season will admit, the seed is sown 
in the following manner: a rake with teeth a foot 
apart is drawn crosswise to the beds, for the purpose 
of making drills for the reception of the seeds. The 
seed is then sown in the drills with the thumb and 
fingers, and covered with the hand. From ten to 
twelve pounds of seed are put upon an acre. After 
the plants come up they are kept free from weeds, 
which generally requires four weedings; a hoe of 
suitable width to pass between the rows is used in 
weeding, which saves much labor. When ripe, they 
are pulled, and the tops cut off with a knife. A suf- 
ficient length of top is left to tie them to the straw in 
roping, or in bunches of three and a half pounds, as 
required by a law of the State. An ordinary crop is 
from six thousand to eight thousand ropes to the acre. 
The qttantit}' annually raised in the town is estimated 
from one million to two millions and a half of ropes, 



G A K D E N I N a . 3? 

whicli are sold at an average price of two dollars a 
hundred, amounting to from twenty to thirty thou- 
sand dollars. 

Most of the labor of raising onions in Wethersfield 
is performed by females. The cultivation of an acre 
requires from fifty to sixty days' labor of a female, 
whose rate of wages, including board, is about torty-two 
cents a day. Though many of the young ladies of 
Wethersfield spend a portion of their time in their 
onion gardens, yet in personal beauty, education, and 
politeness, they are not excelled by moat females of far 
less industrious habits. 

LEEKS 

May be sown early in September on a warm border 
open to the south, in drills nine inches apart, and 
covered lightly. About the middle of February fol- 
lowing, the plants may be drawn up and set out in 
beds of four or five feet wide, previously prepared by 
spading in rich manure well rotted and pulverized, 
and the beds may be laid off in trenches of four or 
five inches deep, and fifteen inches apart. Make holes 
with a dibble three inches deep at the bottom of the 
trench, and six inches apart, to receive the roots. A 
portion of the straggling roots and tops may be crop- 
ped or cut oflT; when the plants are set, close the 
dirt lightly around the roots, leave the trench open, 
and draw up the earth to the plants as they grow 
till the trenches are made level. By this method the 
roots will be fine and well blanched. 

PARSNIPS 

May be sown about the last of February, or any 
time during the month of March, in beds prepared 
4 



do GAKDENING. 

four feet wide, of a very rich, light eaitli, dug at least 
a full spade deep, and drilled iu rows eighteen inches 
apart, and covered one incli deep. AYhen the plants 
will admit, they may be thinned out to stand twelve 
or fifteen inches apart. Cabbage-seed may be drilled 
between each row-, and do well, as the cabbages would 
be remvoed before they would prove an injury to the 
parsnips. Peppergrass might also be sown in drills be- 
tween the parsnips, and would prove no injury, as it 
is made use ofi" as salads, or rather used wdth lettuce, 
and would be removed before the parsnips got to be 
of any size. 

As parsnips, carrots, and beets, are difficult seed 
to get up when sown late, they should not be sown 
after the month of March, without a good season of 
rain, soaking the parsnips and carrots from twenty- 
four to thirty-six hours, and the beets forty-eight hours 
before planting, either in warm water or letting it stand 
in the sun, which Avill answer the purpose, observing 
to press the ground well after the seed is sown and 
raked in ; and if the soil is light and dry, it would be 
well, after the seed is raked in, to cover the bed a few 
days with plank or green pine bushes, observing to 
remore them at night to give the beds air, and to have 
the advantage of the night dews. By this method 
they will not fail to come up, if the seed is good. 
Potash and phosphoric acid are the elements most 
likely to be wanting in the soil. Apply wood-ashes 
and bone-dust. 

PARSLEY 

May be sown early in Februarj^, but would do best 
sown in September, in small beds of a good, light soil, 
in drills six inches apart, and covered one inch deep. 



GARDENING. SS^ 

As soon as the plants will admit, thin them out to stand 
three or four inches apart. As parsley-seed seldom 
vegetates under five or six weeks, it would be best to 
give it rather a shady border ; and if sown after 
February, it would be advisable to soak the seed 
t^velve hours in water, mixed with sulphur, observing 
to press the ground well after the seed is raked in ; 
and should the weather prove dry afterwards, occasion- 
ally water the bed. By this method it would soon 
vegetate and come up. 

PEPPERS 

May be sown from the tenth to the last of April, 
in small beds of a light, rich soil, thinl}', in drills 
fifteen to eighteen inches apart, and covered one inch 
deep. As soon as the plants will admit, thin them out 
to stand twelve inches apart. Those plants that are 
drawn out may be transplanted into large beds, of a 
strong, rich soil, giving them eighteen inches space 
each way. 

ENGLISH PEAS, 

For an early spring crop, may be planted any time 
in December in a light, rich soil, drilled in rows four 
feet apart, and those that grow very tall require five 
feet space, covering them two inches deep. As the 
winter often proves too severe, they might do full as 
well, or better, planted the last of January, or early 
in Februarj' ; and in order for a succession of crops, 
they ma}' be planted once in three or four weeks after, 
till the middle of April. They have been proved to 
do full as well, or better, planted in ridges around the 
edges or borders of beds, which makes a great saving 
of ground, and renders the gathering much easier. It 
is a good plan to plant two rows together, about nine 



40 GARDENING. 

inches apart, so that by setting bushes between them 
both rows may be held up. The ground should be 
frequently stirred and made tine around the roots, 
and kept free from weeds ; and, as they advance in 
height, draw a little earth to the stems. Peas that do 
not require sticks may be planted in drills two-and-a- 
half feet apart, or on the edges or borders of beds, as 
the other kind. Ashes and bone, or superphosphate 
of lime, are good manures. 

RADISHES. 

This root being liable to be eaten by worms, the 
following method is recommended -for raising them. 
Take equal quantities of buckwheat-bran and fresh 
horse-manure, and mix them well and plentifully, and 
spread a thick coat on the bed intended for sowing, 
and spade it in, so that it may get thoroughly mixed. 
Suddenly after this a great fermentation will be pro- 
duced, and a number of toadstools (a kind of mush- 
room) will start up in forty-eight hours. Dig the 
ground over again, and sow the seeds in drills early 
in February, and when well up, they may be thinned 
out, regularly, to stand three or four inches apart, and 
keep the ground loose and free from weeds. By this 
method they will grow with great rapidity, and be 
free from insects. Buckwheat-bran is an excellent 
manure of itself; also ashes and superphosphate of 
lime. A second crop of radishes might be raised on 
the same bed after the first is done, by spading up the 
ground, and sowing and managing as at first. 

RHUBARB, OR PIE PLANT. 

This may be propagated either by seed or cuttings: 
the seeds may be sown on a warm bed early in March, 



GARDENING. 41 

in drills eighteen inches apart, and dropped thinly ; 
and when well up and in a growing state, they may 
be thinned out, in order to give the plants a good, re- 
gular growth, to stand six inches apart. The soil 
should be kept light and loose around the plants, and 
free from weeds during the summer: and in the month 
of September following, the plants may be removed 
to a stationary bed, previously prepared, of a deep 
rich mold, well spaded in, the ground inclined to be 
moist, but not wet. The plants may be set out two- 
and-a-half feet each w^ay ; and, before the cold wea- 
ther sets in, there may be a coat of half-rotted manure 
spread over the beds, which will benefit and strengthen 
the roots. The after management of rhubarb requires 
good culture, and keeping clean ; and every fall 
the beds should have a good coat of well-rotted ma- 
nure spread over. As young plants produce the most 
tender stalks or canes, new beds should be made once 
in three j^ears, which might be done by dividing the 
old roots and crowns in such a manner that each set 
has one or more eyes, and planting in September, as 
above stated. Rhubarb is remarkable for the quantity 
of phosphates and soda it extracts from the earth. 
Crude soda or bone-dust may also be added as a fer- 
tilizer. 

SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTER, 

Is a white root, resembling a parsnip, and may be 
sown in small beds, and cultivated in the same 
manner. 

SHALLOTS 

May be planted by the middle or the last of Feb- 
ruary, in drills about fifteen inches apart, laid open 

three or four inches deep, and in each drill put a 
4 * 



42 GARDENING. 

sprinkling of salt evenly, and upon that a layer of 
dry soot, about half an inch thick; then plant the 
roots upon it, about six inches apart, and cover up 
the drill evenly, with the earth firmly round the roots; 
keep them free from weeds during their growth, and 
work the ground evenly, without drawing up the 
earth round the roots. By this method they will pro- 
duce fine large bulbs. 

SPINACH, 

For winter use, may be sown the last of September, 
and again in October ; and in order to have a succes- 
sion of crops for spring use, it may be sown again in 
February and early in March, in a light strong soil, 
drilled in rows fifteen inches apart, and covered one 
inch deep. As soon as the plants are well up, thin 
them out to stand three or four inches apart ; after- 
ward they may be thinned out for use as they advance 
in size. If any are left to remain for seed, they should 
have about fifteen inches space. 

NEW ZEALAND SPINACH, 

A new valuable sort, which may be planted from 
the twentieth of February to the last of March, in 
beds prepared, four feet wide, of a good, light, rich 
mold, in drills twenty inches apart, the seeds dropped 
singly six inches apart in the drill, and covered nearly 
two inches deep; and if they should all come up, the 
plants may be thinned out, to stand eighteen inches 
apart, and those plants that are taken up will do very 
well, transplanted in beds as above, giving them the 
same space. If the ground is well stirred, and the 
plants kept free from weeds while young, it will 
spread and be very luxuriant. As it stands the dry 



GARDENING. 43 

hot weather better tljan almost any other plant, it 
hears well till frost; as the leaves are plucked off for 
use, they will put out again. 

SUMMER SAVORY 

May he sown the last of March, or any time during 
the month of April, in small beds of almost any to- 
lerable soil, drilled in rows nine inches apart, and 
covered lightly. Keep the ground loose, and free from 
weeds, during the growth of the plant. 

SPRING TURNIP 

May be sown the middle of February for early use, 
and again till the last of March for a succession, in 
any tolerably good, light soil, drilled in rows fifteen 
or eighteen inches apart, and covered one inch deep. 
As soon as the plants are well up, so as to be able to 
get hold of them with the fingers, thin them out to 
stand singly one or two inches apart ; and as they 
advance in size, so as to crowd and touch each other, 
thin them out again so as to give them three or four 
inches space : afterwards they may be thinned out for 
use, giving them a little more space as they advance 
in size : keep the ground loose and light round the 
roots, and free from weeds. By this method the tur- 
nips will be always well rooted, and the tops very 
fine. Many persons have said, they never succeed in 
raising spring turnips, and for that reason have given 
up the cultivation of them. There are two very good 
reasons why these people are unsuccessful in their 
cultivation : one is, that they do not thin them out so 
as to allow sufiicient space ; and the next reason 
is, that tliey do not sufficiently work the ground, so as 
to get rid of the weeds. The author of this work 



44 GARDENING. 

has cultivated spring turnips for upwards of thirty 
years past, and has never failed one spring, when 
sown early, in having ver}- fine large roots. The 
common late, flat turnip may be sown from the first 
of August to the tenth of September, either in broad- 
cast, or drilled in rows as the spring turnip, which 
would be preferable, in order to work or keep them 
free from weeds. They should have about eighteen 
or twenty inches space betAveen the rows, or more, if 
the ground be strong. The large Norfolk field turnip 
should have two feet space between the rows, or more, 
if the ground be strong. New ground, enclosed a year 
before planting (where cows have used,) is said to be 
preferable for fall turnips. Previous to sowing, plough 
it two ways, and run a harrow over it to level and 
break the ground loose. Hanover turnips may be 
sown from the twentieth of July to the middle of 
August: but the early sowing, tiie last of July or the 
first of August, will be best, if there should be a good 
season of rain, as the roots will then have time to get 
their growth before the winter sets in. They require 
a strong light soil, either spaded or well ploughed ; 
they may be sown in drills twenty inches or two feet 
apart, and covered one inch deep. As soon as the 
plants will admit, thin them, to stand fifteen inches 
apart ; those that are drawn out may be transplanted 
and do very well. 

REMEDY FOR DESTROYING THE TURNIP-FLY. 

A remedy for destroying the turnip-fly is to get a 
quantity of lime from the kilns, in lumps or shells, 
which, put into a shed, or under cover, and slack it 
with tobacco water ; when it is slacked into a powder, 
sow it carefully upon the young plants. If any farmer 



GARDENING. 45 

will try this simple remedy, his turnip crop may be 
saved from the destruction of the fly. Immediately 
after rain, or while the dew is on the turnip, is the 
best time for sowing the lime, when it adheres to the 
leaves of the young plants. 

RUTA-BAGA, — QUALITY OF LAND, MANNER OF SOWING, 
CULTIVATION, &c. 

A late fall turnip, has a smooth leaf like a cabbage, 
and is known in the State of JSTew York by the name 
of the yellow Russian turnip. There are other varie- 
ties similar, which have a leaf of a yellowish green, 
while the leaf of the ruta-baga is of a bluish green, 
like the green of peas when nearly full-grown, or like 
the green of a young and thrifty early York cabbage. 
The outside of the bulb of the ruta-baga is of a green- 
ish hue, mixed toward the top with a color bordering 
on a red ; and the inside of the bulb, if the sort be true 
and genuine, is of a deep yellow. 

The time of sowing in the State of New York is 
from the twenty-fifth of June to the tenth of July ; but 
as our seasons here are much longer, and the latter 
part of the summer generally hot and dry, it would be 
advisable not to sow sooner than the twentieth of July, 
and not later than the middle of August. 

As a tine, rich garden mold, of a great depth, and 
having a porous stratum under it, is best for ever}-- 
thing that vegetates, except plants that live best in 
water, so it is best for the ruta-baga. But Cobbett, on 
the culture of this root, says : " There is no soil in 
which it may not be cultivated with great facility, ex- 
cept a pure sand, or very stifl:' clay." A few days 
previously to sowing, the ground must be plowed 
into ridges, having two furrows on each side of 
the ridge, so that every ridge consists of four fur- 



46 GARDENING. 

rows, or turnings of the plow, making the tops of 
the ridges nearly, or quite, three feet from each 
other. As the plowing should be deep, it will of 
course have a deep gutter between every two ridges. 
If the ground be not strong, rotten stubble manure 
may be placed under the middle of each ridge, be- 
neath where the seed is sown. The ground being 
prepared, lay open a trench in each ridge or roAv, and 
sow the seed very thinly, so that they may not touch 
each other, and cover them one inch deep, observing 
to press the ground well that the seed may vegetate 
quickly before the earth gets too dry. This is always 
a good thing to be done even with any kind of seed 
that is sown lightly, especially in dry weather and 
under a hot sun. Seed are very small things. When 
we see them covered over with the earth we conclude 
that all is safe, but if they do not vegetate and come 
up, they are then pronounced bad seed. We should 
remember that a very small cavity is sufficient to keep 
them untouched nearly all around, in which case, 
under a hot sun, and near the surface, unless they 
are well pressed after sowing, they are sure to perish. 
As soon as the plants are well up, they may be thinned 
out so as to give them two or three inches space ; and 
when theplants will admit they may be thinned out 
again, giving them fifteen inches space to stand. 
Those plants that are drawn out may be transplanted. 
As soon as the grass begins to make its appearance, 
the tops of the ridges around the plants may be hoed 
six inches in width. Then, with a single horse-plow, 
take a furrow from the side of one ridge going up the 
field, a furrow from the other side coming down, then 
another furrow from the same side of the first ridge 
going up, and another from the same side of the other 



GARDENING. 47 

ridge coming down, observing to plow within three 
or (bur inches of the plant. This turns a ridge over 
the original gutter. Then observe to turn these fur- 
rows back again to the turnips. In this manner the 
weeds are nearly, or quite, all destroyed. When the 
weeds again make their appearance it will be neces- 
sary to repeat the same operation with the hoe and 
plow as before, which may suffice, unless the ground 
has been uncommonly grassy. Should it be necessary 
to work it the third time, the application of the hoe 
may answer. From the above mode of cultivation, 
the plants or leaves will be so productive as nearly to 
touch each other in the middle between the ridges. 
Cobbett states that from the above mode of cultivation, 
he has raised upward of a thousand bushels from one 
acre of ground on Long Island, New York, the tur- 
nips on an average weighing upward of seven pounds 
each. Transplanting is a mode said to be preferable, 
the ground plowed up and made into ridges as above. 
The plants may be obtained either from those which 
are thinned out by the first mode of planting, or from 
seed previously sown in small beds of a rich, light 
soil, drilled in rows twelve inches apart. They should 
be thinned out as soon as they are well up, to stand 
two or three inches apart, in order that the plants may 
be more thrifty and regular in size. As soon as the 
plants are large enough, they may be transplanted, 
giving them the space above mentioned. A moderate 
season of rain is preferable to too much wet. The 
mode of planting is as follows : First, the hole is made 
sufficiently deep — deeper than the root really re- 
quires, so that it be not bent at the point, if it can 
be avoided ; then, while one hand holds the plant 
with its root in the hole, the other hand applies 



48 GARDENING. 

the setting stick to the earth on one side of the 
hole, the stick being held in such a wa^^ as to form a 
sharp angle with the plant; then pushing the stick 
down so that its point goes a little deeper than the 
point of the root, and giving it a little twist, it presses 
the earth against the point or bottom of the root, and 
thus all is safe, and the plant is sure to grow. The 
general and almost universal fault is, that the planter, 
when he has put the root into the hole, draws the 
earth up against the upper part of the root or stem ; 
and if he presses pretty well there, he thinks that the 
planting is well done ; but it is the point of the root 
against which the earth ought to be pressed : for there 
the fibres are, and if they do not touch the earth closely, 
the plant will not thrive. The above mode will ap- 
ply to cabbage and all other plants that are removed. 
If the ground was plowed or prepared in the fall 
or winter before, so mucli the better ; the plowing, 
as before observed, should be very deep, and the 
ridges well laid up. In this situation it would, 
by the succession of frosts be shaken and broken 
tine as powder, by March or April. It should then 
be turned back, always plowing deep; then, pre- 
vious to sowing, the manure may be put in the 
ridges and plowed and sown as first described. As 
the winters at the North are too severe for the 
ruta-baga, they are harvested or taken up the last of 
November, and either put in cellars or hills prepared 
in such a manner as to keep out the frost. In this 
climate they would keep in the ground during the 
winter without injury. The tops, as well as the roots, 
arc excellent food for cattle, hogs, or sheep. By 
cutting up the roots, and boiling or steaming them, 
with a little meal added, they arf excellent food for 
hosrs. 



GARDENING. 49 



STRAAVBERRIES. 



New beds of strawberries may be formed in this 
climate early in the month of September, made up in 
beds of four feet and a half or five feet wide, in a 
good, light soil, neither too moist nor too dry. The 
most suitable manure for strawberries is composed of 
rotten leaves or decayed, wood, mixed, with other rot- 
ten vegetable substances scraped from the stable-yard. 
Walks may be made between the beds, of about two 
and a half feet wide, sufficient to admit a wheelbar- 
row, for the purpose of manuring the beds from time 
to time as may be required. The plants may be pro- 
cured, from the roots that have formed from the run- 
ners on old beds, of the growth of the past season, or 
the year before, which would be preferable, as they 
would bear more abundantly the next season. Three 
rows may be set out in each bed; one row on each 
side, twelve inches from the border, and one row in 
the middle, so that the plants may have eighteen or 
twenty inches space from each other both ways : let 
them be covered two or three inches deep. Should 
the weather prove dry afterward, they might occasion- 
ally be watered a few times of an evening, till they 
take root. Nothing more need be done, but keeping 
the soil light and loose between the plants, and free 
from weeds till frost. After the leaves have become 
dead or decayed, and before the ground freezes, they 
may be carefully taken off with the hand close to the 
crown of the root. The beds may then be covered 
two or three inches thick with a good coat of manure 
(half rotted) from the stable or cow-3'ard, or composed 
of decayed vegetable mold, as before stated, being 
careful that it be free from grass-seed of any kind. 
5 



50 GARDENING. 

Early in the spring, before vegetation begins to grow, 
spread over the beds a slight covering of straw, and 
set fire to it : this will consnme all the decayed leaves, 
&c., left from last season, and leave the whole neat 
and clean. The earth may be lightly turned in be- 
tween the plants, being careful not to injure the 
roots ; then spread on a thin coat of fine manure, well 
pulverized, raked from the yard, and mixed with 
ashes, which will warm the ground, and bring on the 
plants more speedily. After the plants are in a good 
growing state and begin to blossom, spread on a good 
covering of fine straw, two inches thick, when the 
straw is wet and the weather damp, taking care that 
it be spread on evenly, and that no part of the ground 
be left bare. This method brings on the fruit earlier, 
and ripens it finely, and produces a better quality: it 
likewise keeps the fruit clean, and free from dirt or 
sand. After this the vines should not be disturbed, 
until they have done bearing. As soon as the fruit 
is gone, the runners should occasionally be taken ofip" 
as they appear, and the beds kept free from weeds 
during the summer, which may be done by hand as 
they show themselves. In the fall when the leaves 
are decayed, the straw may be removed into the sta- 
ble-yard, and mixed with other manure to rot. If 
any plants are then missing, they may be replaced 
with young plants, such as before stated. They 
should not be set later than the month of September. 
The beds may then have another coat or dressing, to 
preserve them from the severity of the winter, as be- 
fore mentioned. If the above mode is adopted in the 
culture of the strawberry, they will bear and do well 
for many years. 

Where there are male and female plants, such as 



GAKDENING. 51 

the hautboys are stated to be, it would do well to mix 
the male plants regularly when setting out, in each 
row; say one male to every six female plants. A 
solution prepared as follows may be used with ad- 
vantage : a pound each of nitrate of potash, glauber 
salts and sal-soda ; and of muriate of amonia a quarter 
of a pound; dissolved in thirty gallons of rain or 
river water. 

Use this quantity in three applications at intervals 
of about a week; the first when the green leaves begin 
to start, and the last just before the plants are in full 
bloom. Between the applications, when the weather 
is dry, give them clear, soft water, as the growth of 
the young leaves is so rapid that, unless watered, the 
sun will scorch them. Make the application towards 
evening, with a watering-pot. 

OBSERVATIONS ON THE CULTURE OF THE STRAWBERRY, 
BY A. J. DOWNING. 

The strawberry is certainly one of the most valu- 
able and delicious of all the smaller fruits. It is not 
easily cultivated. It yields an abundant crop in a 
short time, from a very limited space of ground ; and 
while its pleasant sub-acid flavor is agreeable, and 
forms one of the most delightful additions to the 
dessert in summer, it is also extremely wholesome, 
never, as is the case with most other fruits, under- 
going the acetous fermentation. In some diseases it 
has been highly beneficial, and it is afiirmed that 
Linnseus was cured of the gout by an abundant use 
of these berries. The strawberry, though a low, herba- 
ceous plant, sends dowm remarkably strong roots. In 
good soils these are often found to penetrate to the 



52 GARDENIXG. 

depth of fifteen inches, or more, in a season. It is 
neceessary, therefore, to produce a fine bed, that the 
soil be deep as well as rich : where the sub-soil is not 
positively bad, the ground is always much improved 
by trenching (two spades deep) before setting the 
plants. In doing this, a good coat of manure should 
be deposited between the two spots. Old garden 
soils, which have been long cultivated, are astonish- 
ingly improved by this practice, the whole becoming 
renewed by the presence of the fresh soil; and the 
growth of plants in such mold, when again acted upon 
by the sun and air, is of course proportionately 
vigorous. A deep, yellow loam, rather damp than 
dry, is undoubtedly the preferable soil for this plant : 
but almost anj' soil, for so limited a species of culture, 
may, in the hands of a judicious gardener, be rendered 
suitable for it. We have seen splendid crops of fruit 
upon a very stift', yellow clay, mellowed down by 
mixing with anthracite coal ashes and manure. 

The best season for making new plantations of the 
strawberry is either in the spring, the latter part of 
February, or early in March, or directly after the beds 
have ceased bearing in August. If the latter time is 
chosen, the plants generally get sufficiently well estab- 
lished to bear a considerable crop the ensuing year. 
There are various modes in which to plant the beds 
when formed. Some arrange the plants so as to be 
kept in hills, others in rows, and others again allow 
them to cover the whole surfiice of the bed. We con- 
sider the first method preferable, as in that way the 
ground can be kept cultivated between the plants ; 
the fruit is generally larger and finer, being more ex- 
posed to the genial influence of the sun, and the 



GARDENING. 53 

duration of the bed is greater. Three or four rows 
may be planted in each bed, at a suitable distance 
apart, and the runners from the rows should be short- 
ened and cut off about three times during the season. 

If the plants are not thriving well, a light top-dress- 
ing between the rows in autumn will be of great ad- 
vantage. Burning of the upper surface of the bed in 
the spring has been highly recommended by some 
persons ; but we have never found it to answer our 
expectations upon trial. This fruit receives its name 
from the very ancient custom of placing straw on the 
beds between the rows of plants, to preserve the ber- 
ries clean. Clean wheat or rye chaff may be substi- 
tuted for straw, and it has the very great additional 
advantage of not only preventing most weeds from 
growing, by excluding the light, but also, by decom- 
posing with considerable rapidity after the fruit sea- 
son is past, it contributes much to the enrichment of 
the surface soil of the bed. Young and strong run- 
ners, well rooted, should in all cases be chosen to 
form the new bed, and not old plants, or those offsets 
which grow near them. 

There is a fact with regard to the strawberry plant 
little known, the ignorance of which puzzles many a 
good cultivator. This is the existence of separate 
fertile and sterile or barren plants in many of the va- 
rieties, otherwise plants which produce chiefly male, 
and others that produce only female flowers. Botani- 
cally, the strawberry should produce both stamens 
and pistils in each flower, and the blossoms should 
consequently all mature fruit. This is really the case 
with the alpine, tlie wood-strawberries, &c., but not 
entirely so with the large scarlet and pine strawber- 
5* 



54 GARDENING. 

ries. These latter sorts, it is well known, produce 
the largest and finest fruit, but we very often see whole 
beds of them in fine flowering condition, almost en- 
tirely unproductive. The common parlance .in such 
cases is, that the variety has run out or degenerated ; 
but the idea is a confused and ignorant one, while the 
healthy aspect of the plants fully proves the vigor of 
tlie sort. The truth is, in all strawberries of the fore- 
going classes, that although each blossom is furnished 
with stamens and pistils, yet in some plants the pistils 
are so few that they are scarcely perceived ; in others 
there are scarcely any stamens visible. When the 
plants bear blossoms furnished with stamens only (or 
in a large proportion,) they are, of course, barren ; 
when pistils only are produced in abundance, they are 
fertile. To have a bed planted so as to bear abun- 
dantly, about one plant in eight or ten should be 
staminate, or barren blossoming plants, the others 
the fertile ones : for, if the latter only be kept, they 
alone will also be found unproductive. If an}'- person 
will examine a bed of the Hudson, or any of the large 
scarlet strawberries, when they are in blossom, he will 
discover a great number of plants which bear large, 
showy blossoms filled with fine yellow stamens. These 
are the barren plants. Here and there, also, he will 
discover plants bearing much smaller blossoms, filled 
with the heads of pistils, like a small, green straw- 
berry. The latter are the fertile ones. Now the vigor 
of the barren plant is so much greater than that of 
the fertile ones, and their ofi:"sets are so much more 
numerous, that if care be not taken to prevent this, 
they soon completely overrun and crowd out the fer- 
tile or bearing plants : and to this cause only is to be 



GARDEN ING. 55 

attributed the unproductive state of many beds of the 
large-fruited strawberries, which are in many instances 
perhaps entirely devoid of fertile plants. 

The proper method, undoubtedly, is to select a few 
fertile plants of each kind, plant them in a small bed 
by themselves, and allow them to increase freely by 
runners; then, on planting, the proper proportion 
could be made, and kept up by the regular clipping 
of the runners. 

Many of the fine English varieties of straw^berries 
(Wilmot's superb, for instance) are generally found 
worthless here. This is owing, in some cases, to the 
ignorance or w^ant of care of those persons who ex- 
port the varieties, in sending often no fertile plants. 
In other instances it is equally owing to our negli- 
gence here, in not preserving the due proportion of 
barren and fertile plants. This peculiarity in the 
blossoms is very little known, or even understood, 
among scientific cultivators. It was first pointed out 
to us by our esteemed friend N. Longworth, Escp, of 
Cincinnati, one of our most distinguished western 
horticulturists. Its truth we have repeatedly verified, 
and a slight examination will convince any person of 
the cause of the numerous worthless, yet thrifty-look- 
ing, strawberry beds throughout our gardens. The 
finest of the large English varieties of this fruit, wdiich 
we cultivate here, is the Bishop. It is remarkably 
large, a most abundant bearer, and of superior flavor. 
Many of the larger-berried sorts, as the Methville 
Castle, have been hollow and comparatively tasteless, 
though of uncommon size. This variety, however, 
appears to us to unite all that can be desired to con- 
stitute a strong, fine, and delicious strawberry. 



56 GARDENING. 

TOMATOES 

May be sown any time in the month of April, in a 
light, rich soil, drilled in rows four feet apart, where 
they are to remain and grow. They should be sown 
thinly, and covered one inch deep ; and when the 
plants are well up, they may be thinned out three or 
four inches apart to give them a good, regular growth. 
When they are several inches in height, thin them 
out again to stand three feet apart to remain ; then 
put bushy sticks to them to bear them up, as they 
spread much and are inclined to run a little. By 
working them well, and keeping the ground loose and 
free from weeds, they will bear very abundantly till 
frost. After the tomatoes are once cultivated, people 
are not in the habit of saving the seed in the spring, 
but depend on the volunteer plants coming up from 
the rotten ones that deca}' and fall ofi" on the ground 
in the fall ; but to improve and have the genuine sort, 
it is best to select some of the largest and fairest for 
seed, and sow every spring. They should be squeezed 
out, when fully ripe, in water, rinsed well, and dried 
in the shade for several days. Spread them thinly 
before they are put away. Bone-dust and common 
salt is a proper compost to be added to the soil. 

PUMPKINS 

May do well when planted among corn, where 
the soil is very strong, and made light and loose ; and 
in order that they may have room, it would be well 
to plant the corn in drills or rows six feet apart. The 
corn may be thinned out to stand two or two-and-a- 
half feet distance between each stalk, which mode 
is thought best for its growth. Between every other 
row the pumpkins may be planted, after the second 



GARDENING. 57 

plowing and lioeing, in hills fifteen feet apart, 
making the hills nearly level with the ground. As 
the plants will admit, thin them out, so that only one 
vine may remain to a hill. Hoe and keep them free 
from weeds as long as practicable without injury to 
the vines, observing not to hill up the earth around 
the root. Be sure to take oflT the first two or three 
crops when about as large as a goose-egg. When 
the first crop of pumpkins is gathered, a larger num- 
ber will occupy their place, which are to be trimmed 
oflf. The gathering may be continued so long as time 
is left for those on the vines to ripen. They are said to 
produce better when planted apart from other vege- 
tables. The ground should be strong, well pulverized, 
and made as level as possible, making the hills at least 
ten or twelve feet apart, keeping the ground loose and 
free from weeds, as in that mode of cultivation there 
is less likelihood of injury from drought. They root at 
every joint, which makes it necessary to have the 
ground strong and kept loose as they run. 

SQUASHES. 

All kinds of running squash may be planted about 
the first of April, and for a succession of crops may 
be planted till the middle of May, in a similar soil to 
the pumpkins. Plant free from other vegetables, and 
observe to take oft' the first growth when young, as 
with the pumpkins. 

Summer-hush-squash for early use may be planted 
from the first to the twentieth of April, in a good, 
warm, light soil, in hills four feet apart. Put several 
seeds in a hill, but do not leave more than two or 
three good thrifty plants to grow in each, giving them 
ten or twelve inches space from each other. As they 



58 GARDENING. 

are cultivated, observe to draw the earth but lightly 
around the roots. 

WINTER, OR LATE RUNNING SQUASHES. 

A piece of ground not liable to suffer from drought, 
free from shade, and sheltered from wind, must be 
selected. At the proper season plow it three times, 
or till it is mellow. Dig holes in the earth about eight 
feet apart, that will contain at least a bushel. Fill 
each hole about two-thirds full, with good, strong, 
well-rotted manure, and partly mixed with a good, 
rotten compost taken from the hog-yard, or hog-pen, 
adding a pint of dry ashes or lime. Cover the 
manure slightly with some of the dirt first taken out 
of the hole, and, after a few days, work it all over 
thoroughl}'', and mix with it the best part of the dirt 
first thrown out, enough to fill up the hole, so as to be 
a little above the level of the ground. To allow for 
settling, repeat this working over two or three times 
in the course of ten or twelve days, and then plant 
seed from good ripe squashes, Avhich should be done 
about the last of April, or early in May. The plants 
will soon spring up and grow vigorously. The yellow- 
striped bug is the principal enemy to be dreaded. 
The plants, from the first appearance of the bug, 
should be examined twice a da}-, and the pest destroy- 
ed. Hoe the ground, and keep it loose and free from 
weeds, leaving not more than two thrifty plants to a 
hill. As the vines are liable to be blown about, it 
would be well to put brush between the hills for the 
tendrils to lay hold of as they spread. As the ground 
cannot be worked after the bushes are put down, and 
the vines spread, it should be kept very clean and free 
from weeds till then. The few weeds that come up after- 
wards might be removed, or taken out with the hand. 



GARDENING. 69 



DIRECTIONS FOR THE CULTIVATION OF WATER-MELONS. 

Water-melons, managed as follows, are frequently 
produced weighing from thirty to forty pounds, as far 
north as forty-three degrees. If the same pains were 
taken in the south, they might be raised very large 
and fine. 

Dig holes two feet in diameter, twenty inches deep ; 
fill one foot with rubbish raked from the garden and 
stable-yard, and unrotted manures ; beat down hard, 
and water it freely; then fill to the top with rich soil; 
on this spread an inch of fine compost, or well-rotted 
manure, compact, but not hard. Plant the seed from 
the fifteenth of April to the first of May, ten or fifteen 
to a hill, to allow for accidents, a little below the sur- 
face of the compost. Brush over the hill with the 
hand so as to fill the holes made by the fingers ; then 
cover the hill with an inch of clear sand. Should 
the weather be dry, water them well two or three 
evenings. The hills may be made twelve feet apart, 
and when the plants are well up they may be thinned 
out so as to leave five or six good, thrifty plants : and 
when the plants have got six leaves, thin out again, so 
that only two may remain to grow, and give the two 
plants ten or twelve inches space. If the season be 
dry, dig down by the side of the hills nearly as deep 
as the bottom of the holes, and put in a bucket or two 
of water, filling the hole after the water is absorbed. 
As soon as the yellow bug is gone, take away the 
sand, and supply its place with soil. This is all that 
can be done in the hill. When the plant has six 
leaves take oif the center shoot with the point of a 
sharp penknife, and when the lateral shoots are six 



60 GARDENING. 

incLes long take off all l3ut three. "When these begin 
to fall to the ground, secure them down with cross- 
sticks ; and as they advance, spade up the ground a 
foot deep in advance of the vines. Once in every 
three or four feet, put a shovel-full of soil on the leaf- 
joint of the vine, not covering up the leaf, and press 
it down gently with the foot on both sides of the leaf. 
If this is kept moist, it will take root — the ends of the 
vines to be kept to the ground by cross-sticks. Let 
the vines spread from the hills regularly so as to cover 
the whole ground. If the side branches of the main 
vines are inclined to head up, and not to keep to the 
ground, take them off, say a foot, from the main vine. 
All pruning should be done in the middle of the day, 
when the sun shines. Let no melon grow nearer the 
root than four or five feet, and then only one on a 
lateral branch, three to a plant. Let the vine run on 
as far as it will, keeping it to the ground. Permit no 
melon to grow that is deformed, and pull off no male 
blossoms. 

"When the melon has nearly attained to its size, 
others may be permitted to grow on the same vine, 
and a second crop raised. The vines might be made 
to grow from twenty to thirty feet long. Great care 
should be taken that they are not moved or trod 
upon. 

Tlie sand is put on the hills as a preventive 
against the yellow bug; but pumpkin or squash seed 
may be planted near the hills for the bugs to light 
on, taking care to pull them up as soon as the bugs 
are gone. Common salt, bone dust, or superj^hosphate 
of lime, guano, ashes, and animal manures, are also 
srood for water-melons. 



GARDENING. 61 

TO DRIVE BUGS FROM VINES. 

The ravages of the yellow-striped bugs on cucum- 
bers and melon-vines, may be effectually prevented 
by sifting charcoal-dust over the plants. If repeated 
two or three times, the plants will be entirely free from 
annoyance. There is in charcoal some property so 
obnoxious to these troublesome insects, that they fly 
from it the instant it is applied. 

HINT TO FARMERS. 

It is said that the spirits of turpentine is a deadly 
enemy to all the insect tribes, and consequently will 
destroy the bug or worm which is found to prey on 
wheat and other grain. With a watering-pot, finely 
perforated in the spout, a person may sprinkle a field 
of ten acres, without using more than two or three 
gallons. The experiment on a small scale ma}^ easily 
be tried. 

TO CORRECT DAMAGED GRAIN. 

Musty grain, totally unfit for use, and which can 
scarcely be ground, may, it is said, be rendered per- 
fectly sweet and sound by simply immersing it in 
boiling water, and letting it remain until the water 
becomes cold. The quantity of water must be double 
that of the grain to be purified. The musty quality 
rarely penetrates through the husk of the wheat ; and 
in the very worst case it does not extend through the 
amylaceous matter which lies immediately under the 
skin. In the hot water all the decaj^ed or rotten 
grain swims on the surface, so that the remainiug 
wheat is efl'ectually cleansed from all impurities with- 
out any material loss. It is afterwards to be dried on 
a kiln, occasionally stirring it ; or it would dry in the 
6 



62 GARDENING. 

hot sun if spread there. It should be effectually dried 
before it is ground, or there would be danger of its 
heating, and of the flour becoming musty. 

rOTATOES, 

Planted from the middle of February to the middle 
of April, are raised with the greatest success in this 
climate: a later planting seldom turns out well, owing, 
generally, to the heat and dryness of summer. A light 
soil, which is neither too dry nor too wet, suits them 
best. The ground should be well plowed once or 
twice previous to planting, and if the ground was 
plowed late in the fall, to have the winter exposure, 
so much the better, in order that the ground might be 
made mellow and fine. After preparing the ground 
for planting, lay off the trenches three feet apart, 
seven or eight inches deep, and throw in the bottom 
coarse straw or litter from the stable, one or two 
inches thick, pref^sing it down evenlj' ; and on this 
put a compost of stable and cow-pen manure, tolerably 
well rotted, to about the same thickness; then cut 
your potatoes, so that there may be one or two good 
eyes in each piece, from the middle of the potato, 
rejecting both ends, or what is called the eye or top 
and the bottom or root end ; then drop them in the 
trench nine inches apart, and cover them with the 
earth taken from the drill, three or four inches 
deep, taking care to have the ridge covered very little 
above the level of the ground. One good molding 
will be sufficient, after the potatoes get about six or 
eight inches in hight. 

ANOTHER METHOD OF RAISING POTATOES. 

The latter part of February, make trenches about 
ten or twelve inches deep, by running a plow two or 



GARDENING. 63 

three times in a place, and scraping them out with a 
hoe. In these trenches put a small quantity of stable 
or other strong manure, drop the potato, and fill the 
trenches with half- rotted straw or trash from the 
woods or barn-yard. Then level the ground, and 
scatter leaves or other trash, about four or five inches 
deep all over the surface, which keeps the ground 
moist, and prevents the weeds and grass from grow- 
ing. There is no trouble in working them afterwards. 

A SUCCESSFUL MODE OF KEEPING SWEET POTATOES. 

Dig a square pit in the ground about four feet deep, 
about the size you wish your house to be. Log it 
upon the inside until the logs are four or five feet 
above the surface of the earth. Draw the dirt well 
around the log frame. In the earth, on the inside of 
the first frame, build another frame of logs, leaving a 
space of one foot between the two. Fill the space 
between them with sand or dry earth. Upon the top 
of the frame lay a plank floor, the upper part of the 
floor to be covered with earth about four inches deep. 
Then a roof, with the gable-end opened at the south, 
and closed at the north. Have a door in the los; frame 
about two feet square, to the south. After the pota- 
toes are dug, they must be protected from the sides 
and bottom by dry pine leaves. The door must be 
kept open in warm, dry days, and closed in cold, damp 
weather, and always at night. 

A floor of poles should be made to the potatoe 
house. 

ANOTHER. 

Open a hole or bed about a foot deep, in high, dry 
land (deeper would be better) ; put the potatoes in a 



64 GARDENING. 

conical form, and cover with fine straw and corn 
stalks ; or stalks alone, at first, and then with earth 
from eight to twelve inches deep ; covering lightly at 
first, and increasing the quantity of earth as the cold 
increases, would prohably be better, but more risk is 
run in covering too lightly than too heavily. The 
only advantage in putting on stalks, is to keep the 
earth from mixing with the potatoes, as they keep 
equally well, or better, to put the earth on without 
either straw or stalks. A house built of clay, the 
walls about a foot thick, and covered (under the roof) 
in the same manner, was found not to preserve pota- 
toes. When a hill is opened, remove the contents to 
this house during winter; but in spring, say early in 
May, remove the potatoes to a dry house or lot, for 
if left in the hill, they sprout or become too moist 
and soft to be good. The yam rarely fails to keep 
till new potatoes are dug, but the Spanish can seldom 
be kept so late. Large hills or banks never keep so 
well as small ones. About twenty bushels are suf- 
ficient. The above plan has proved highly successful 
after much experience. 

PRESERVING IRISH POTATOES 

Injurious Effects of their Tops. 

"When digging your potatoes, spread them out as 
much as possible upon the ground, in order that each 
potato may feel the direct influence of the sun and 
air; and do not dig more than can be got in at night, 
lest they have to be exposed out twelve or twenty-four 
hours with nothing over them but a few straggling 
tops, as a sort of apology for a covering. It is recom- 
mended to have them carried into the cellar or bins 
as soon after they are taken from the hills as they can 



GAEDENING. 65 

be conveniently. The bins should also be so con- 
structed that potatoes can be excluded from air and 
light — in short, so as to keep thern in a state similar 
to that which they are in previously to their being 
dug; that is, secure from the light and air, with a 
little moisture and a temperature sufficiently low to 
keep them from vegetating. 

The best plan is to make a bin. Put some sand or 
turf at the bottom, cut some sods, and line up the 
ends with them, and when the potatoes are put in, 
cover them over with sods, and beat them down solid. 
This keeps them moist and cool, and, no doubt, is an 
excellent plan. The light has a peculiar action on 
some potatoes, making them heavy and watery or 
waxy, and strong or rancid to the taste. It is, per- 
haps, not always possible to prevent this, when they 
have suffered from some disease of their tops, or have 
been disturbed while growing, or have not a suitable 
soil. As it regards the tops, it is generally the custom 
to throw them down, and take no further trouble 
about them. It has been recommended to preserve 
them wdien green for fodder ; and also not to leave 
them on the ground, as they form a harbor and breed- 
ing-place for insects, which will probably injure the 
next crop, especially if it be wheat. During the past 
sunmier, several crops of wheat that succeeded a po- 
tato crop, were injured by some worm or insect. It 
is better, either to gather them up and burn them, or 
throw them into the hog-yard, for manure. 

ANOTHER MODE OF PRESERVING POTATOES FOR FOOD. 

An English paper says that to preserve potatoes in 
a proper state for food for many years, it is only ne- 
cessary to scald them, or subject them to a heated 
G* 



66 GARDENING. 

oven for a few minutes. By doing this they will never 
sprout, and the farinaceous substance will keep good 
for many years, provided the cortical part or skin be 
entire. They should be well dried after being scalded. 

TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF THE IRISH POTATO. 

A way has been recommended for improving the 
potato from the seed of its own apple. Gather the 
apples of the blue potato when fully ripe, and wash 
out the seed, and dry them. In the spring sow them 
in drills. They come up very thick, having the ap- 
pearance of small weeds. In two or three weeks they 
put out leaves, having the appearance of potatoes ; 
then thin and work them. In the fall you will likely 
have seed of various shapes and complexions, from 
which select four or five kinds in the spring, and plant 
each separately. This is said to improve the potatoes 
very much in flavor and quantity. Wood-ashes will 
improve the soil for the potato. 

ON THE CULTURE OF THE GRAPE-VINE. 

There are few things that afford more pleasure for the 
same expense of time and trouble, than a good and well 
managed grape-vine. The following plan for its cul- 
ture has proved, after many experiments, highl}* suc- 
cessful: — An Isabella vine, one year old from the 
layer, having a very good root, was planted in the 
spring in an ordinary soil, of rather a sandy quality, 
and a wheel-barrow load of wood-yard manure and old 
lime-mortar put about the root. As soon as it began 
to grow, all the buds were rubbed off but one, and 
that was trained perpendicularly, rubbing off during 
the season all side-shoots ; and when it had reached 
to the top of a second story balcony, the end was 



GARDENING. 67 

nipped off, thus stopping its further growth. In the 
spring following, every bud but two at the top of the 
vine were rubbed off, and those two were trained 
along the front of the balcony on a large wire 
stretched along the posts for their support. Every 
side-bud, during this season, was also rubbed off' as 
at first. Both shoots made about thirty-five feet of 
growth this season. In the second spring, every joint 
on the horizontal shoots was permitted to send forth 
its buds, and to grow unmolested, till the branches 
had fairly set fruit, generally until they were about 
eighteen inches long. Then the end of each branch 
was nipped off", and its further growth prevented. The 
perpendicular stem was carefully prevented from send- 
ing out buds. The whole plant was carefully watched 
that no more buds might be permitted to grow — each 
one being rubbed off" as soon as it appeared. Thus 
from about the middle of June, the vine was not per- 
mitted to form any new wood. During the season the 
grapes grew uncommonly well, and M'ere very fine, and 
every one ripened in good season, as was proved by 
the numerous company at the Horticultural Society 
exhibition, who unanimously pronounced them the 
finest grapes there. The produce of the vine was 
three hundred and fifteen bunches, all very large, and 
the grapes of uncommon size. The society awarded 
to them its first premium for native grapes. Almost 
everybody, however, doubted whether the plant had 
not been injured by this excessive bearing of fruit; 
and many old gardeners considered that it would be 
killed by it. The writer never doubted on this score. 
He had only compelled the plant to make fruit, in- 
stead of wood to be cut off and thrown away ; and 



68 GARDENING. 

has no doubt that if he had been able to get, the sea- 
son before, a greater length of wood for fruit branches, 
the plant would have supported a much larger quan- 
tity of fruit. On trimming the vine, preparatory to its 
bearing the third year, there was very little wood to 
be cut oif. Only two buds were left on each branch 
of last year's growth, and these are now growing, and 
showing fruit-buds very finely. The vine is not dead, 
nor does it appear to have been injured in the least 
by last year's hard work. So far, the experiment is 
highly successful, and we now feel authorized to 
recommend this plan to all who love fine fruit. It 
must be borne in mind that the experiment was made 
with the Isabella grape ; we of course cannot say any- 
thing about its applicability to other kinds, from expe- 
rience ; but the same reasoning applies with equal 
force to all kinds. If the powers of a plant can be 
turned from the formation of wood to that of making 
fruit, as we have proved it can be, in the case of the 
Isabella grape, we do not see any reason Avhy the ex- 
periment may not be successful with all kinds of 
grapes and fruit. One thing we do know, that a 
plant that bears fruit does not grow as much as one 
that does not ; and we are hence authorized to infer, 
that the power of the plant may be directed at plea- 
sure, either to the growth of fruit or of wood — tliat 
by suppressing the one, you may increase the other, 
to a very great extent. It may be observed that 
tliis vine occupies no room at all in the garden. 
It grows close in the corner of the house, a sin- 
gle stem ascending fourteen feet to the balcony, 
when it starts oft" horizontally as above described, 
along the balcony. Thus every house in any city that 



GARDENING. 69 

has a yard at all, so that the vine may be set in the 
earth, may have just such a supply of delicious grapes 
as the writer of this had last fall. 

ANOTHER WAY TO CULTIVATE THE GRAPE-VINE. 

Why so little attention, comparatively, is bestowed 
upon the culture of the grape in this country, where 
there are so many acres of poor land, of little value 
in an agricultural point of view, but on which vines 
would flourish and produce largely, and yield a 
profitable return, is truly surprising. The mode of 
culture here suggested offers ample means for pro- 
curing an abundant supply of this delicious fruit, as 
hundreds of pounds might annually be produced upon 
the surface of walling ; for every house in town and 
country has more or less spare walling, which is 
deemed of no value, and might be turned into inva- 
luable account in the production of the fruit of the 
vine. There is not a single point of culture in the 
whole routine of the management of the vine, the 
knowledge of which is so important as that which 
enables the cultivator to discover with accuracy the 
greatest quantity of fruit he can annually extract from 
it without checking its growth, or impairing its vital 
powers ; for it is well known, that the generous flavor 
of grapes, and the vital energies of the vine, are much 
affected by over-cropping. No vine under three inches 
in girth ought to be suffered to ripen any fruit, and 
the great end to be attained is the flavor of the grape 
that is used for the table, and this is regulated by the 
circumstances under which they ripen ; one of which 
is, the quantity of grapes suffered to remain and ripen 
as compared with the strength of the vine. Some 
vines show more fruit than others, but the power to 



70 GARDENING. 

ripen is nearly equal in all. The warmer tlie aspect, 
the greater perfection does the grape attain in our 
climate, as is already demonstrated in the hot-houses; 
but it is not warmth alone ; shelter is equally neces- 
sary. There is no period in the growth of the vine, 
from the moment it is planted until it attains the 
greatest extremity of its growth, in which any move- 
ment of the wind. will not have a greater or less per- 
nicious eifect on its well-being ; for its perspiration is 
so great through its large leaves, that a great supply 
of sap is necessary every moment, through the growing 
season, to enable it to recruit its loss. Every wind 
that blows on the foliage of the vine deranges its 
functions, and retards the growth of the plant and 
the ripening of its fruit, in proportion to its duration 
and violence. An aspect due-south is a very good 
one, but the south-west winds form a drawback to its 
excellence. The best is east by north. I have seen the 
black Hamburg attain great perfection in this aspect. 
The soil most congenial to the growth of the vine is a 
light, rich, sandy loam. One reason why grapes will 
not ripen on open walls is, the great depth of mold 
in which the roots of vines are suffered to run, which 
supplies them with too great a quantity of moisture. 
The subsoil should be of dry materials, for it is not 
mere earth the roots require, but air also. Each root 
requires a peculiar temperature, and all flourish best 
in a stony soil. 

TO PRUNE GRArE-VlNES TO ADVANTAGE, 

In pruning vines, leave some new branches every 
year, and take away (if too many) some of the old, 
which may be of great advantage to the tree, and 
will much increase the quantity of fruit. When 



GARDENING. 71 

training the vine, leave two knots or buds, and cut 
them oif the next time; for usually the two buds 
yield a bunch of grapes. Vines, thus pruned, bear 
abundantly, whereas others that have been cut close, 
to please the eye, yielded little or no fruit. 

REMEDY AGAINST MILDEW OF GRAPES. 

Take a pint and a half of sulphur, and a lump of 
the best uuslacked lime ; put them in a vessel of 
about seven gallons measurement: let the sulphur 
be thrown in lirst, and the lime over it; then pour 
in a pailful of boiling water ; stir it well, and let it 
stand half an hour : then fill the vessel with cold 
water, and after stirring well again, allow the whole 
to settle. After it has become settled, dip out the 
clear liquid into a barrel, and fill the barrel with 
cold water, and it is then fit for use. Next proceed 
with a syringe holding about a pint and a half, and 
throw the liquid with it on the vines in every direc- 
tion, so as completely to cover the foliage, fruit, 
and wood. This should be done when the fruit 
is just forming and about one-third the size of a 
pea : it may be continued twice or thrice a week 
for two or three weeks. The whole process for one 
or two hundred grape-vines need not occupy more 
than half an hour. 

MANAGEMENT OF FRUIT-TREES. 

The following suggestions, as to the use of lime 
around fruit-trees, are worthy of attention. In the 
autumn, we laid bare the roots of a number of un- 
thrifty apple, pear, and peach trees, and leaving them 
exposed during the "winter, returned the dirt in the 



72 GARDENING. 

spring, and applied to the roots of each tree about half 
a bushel of gas-lime. Last year the trees seemed greatly 
improved, and the pears bore more than three times 
as much as they did the two previous years ; the limbs 
had to be propped up, and the fruit seemed improved. 
"We treated some old quince-trees in a similar manner 
with success. Ashes are a good substitute for lime, 
and ordinary lime would probably do as well as the 
gas-lime. Exposing the roots of trees occasionally 
during the winter, it is well known, is very salutary. 

I have perfect faith in the beneficial use of calcare- 
ous substances applied to the roots of trees, sensible, 
as has been observed, that " oxygen is the basis of 
acidity," with which all putrid substances are charged; 
and it is with this view that Major Reybold, of Dela- 
ware, the first of the cultivators of the peach (for he 
and his sons, and sons-in-law, now number 70,000 
peach trees-planted in orchards), is at this time actively 
eiigaged in dressing his trees with shell-marl by de- 
positing a quantity at the root of every tree, to be 
pulverized by the frosts of the ensuing winter. He 
also cultivates his orchard with the plow, turning a 
shallow furrow over the whole surface of the land, 
three times durins: the summer, — a weio^htv atlair, 
seeing that one of these orchards contains more than 
one hundred acres ; by these means he conceives that 
he renovates the land and benefits the health of the 
trees, which are, indeed, in full vigor, although many 
of them are very old, and as large as some apple-trees 
of mature growth. One of the proprietors of a 
lime quarry, mentioned that lime, which was proved 
by analysis to yield 96.6 per cent, of carbonate, and 
not a trace of magnesia, increased the size of the 



GARDENING. 73 

frnit of an apricot-tree three-fold, hj digging in around 
its roots a quantity of lime, adding also to its flavor 
in an equal degree. 

MANAGEMENT OF FRUIT TREES. 

In the iirst place, allow me to say that the disease 
of the peach-tree called and known as the yellows, is 
not contagious, and I will hold myself ready to prove, 
not theoretically or speculatively, but practically, that 
there is no such thing as a healthy peach-tree being 
infected by another standing adjacent and having the 
yellows. I will not say that this or any other disease 
cannot be inoculated ; but if it can, I have not been 
able to do it in several experiments made for the pur- 
pose. 

I will endeavor to detail some of my experiments 
and observations in regard to the yellows, &c., and 
believe that I can show it to be the result of error in 
their culture. This farm had upon it, a small apple 
orchard, the trees standing at distances of thirty-two 
feet; between the rows of apple-trees, peach-trees 
were planted, at distances of sixteen feet tree from 
tree. The peach-trees were in a very unhealthy con- 
dition ; some of them, being in the last stage of the 
disease called the yellows, ceased to live after that 
year ; others not so bad, but having the disease in the 
worst form (every part of the tree being affected), 
received my care and attention. My first desire was 
to get rid of the peach-worm, which I readily accom- 
plished by the use of salt and saltpetre around the 
trunks of the trees, &c., and at the same time I gave 
to those trees producing good fruit, a top-dressing of 
manure. Two years after, my orchard was entirely 
7 



74; GARDENING. 

free from the worm, and appeared in a healthy con- 
dition, with the loss of only three trees out of about 
forty that had the yellows. 

The orchard being in good health, I resolved to 
test my then theoretical views; having planted a few 
trees to supply me with fruit in case these should be 
destroyed, I went more cheerfully to work, and select- 
ed eight trees standing in a row, and had the ground 
manured for about ten or twelve feet on each side of 
the row of trees ; it was then plowed, and potatoes 
were planted in every third furrow, this furrow re- 
ceiving an additional quantity of manure. The 
balance of the orchard was plowed during the month 
of September ; a part thereof received a dressing of 
manure, and was plowed in ; another part was ma- 
nured after being plowed, and a third part was left with- 
out manure ; the whole orchard was sown with wheat, 
and the following spring with clover. The effect was, 
that a large majority of the peach-trees showed some 
symptoms of disease, but more perceptible on those 
where there was no manure, where the manure was 
turned under, and where the potatoes were planted. 
Of the eight trees where the potatoes were planted, I 
was resolved on saving four of them if possible, for 
here I. thought the greatest amount of injury was 
done (though I have thought differently on this sub- 
ject since), yet in this case the injury met my fullest 
expectation, and the four trees unattended to had the 
yellows and were about to die, when two friends, 
both peach-growers, came to see my orchard ; these 
gentlemen, pointing to three of these trees, asked if 
I could cure them ; I told them it might be possible, 
although they were very far gone ; their remark was, 
that they thought these trees could not be restored to 



GAKDENING. 7^ 

health. The middle one of these three trees, beins- 
most diseased, was selected by me to be cured ; and. 
if those friends will call and see me in September 
next, I will promise to give them some perfectly 
sound fruit, to be gathered from this tree, though the 
fruit is not of a very good kind. The other two 
trees died for want of attention, and were cut down 
this spring. IsTow this is one instance of which I 
have ample testimony of this disease being curable, 
though it is not the first instance of cure with me by 
very many. The disease was produced by the plow, 
and the cure by rest, with a top-dressing of stable 
manure and ashes. 

I deem it unnecessary to say anything more about 
my orchard at present, but beg your indulgence to 
permit me to ask attention to the effect produced from 
plovN^ng orchards. A person living within two miles 
of me, has an apple orchard that was, to within the 
last three years, a most prolific orchard, but in con- 
sequence of some of the trees putting on the appear- 
ance of decay, he thought that to manure and plow 
it would be of service ; this he did three years ago, 
and the orchard producing no fruit the next year, and 
the trees appearing more unhealthy, he manured and 
plowed again ; but still he has no fruit, and his trees 
are growing worse instead of better. Another per- 
son about seven miles distant, has an apple orchard 
that he has worked in corn three years ago ; one of 
his people being at my house the year following, I 
inquired if there was any fruit on the trees : " ISTo : 
the frost has killed all the apples." I then asked 
him about trees standing in different parts of the 
orchard, where I knew they could not plow, and 
was told these trees were full of fruit, and that the 



76 GARDENING. 

"frost did not hurt them." I desired him to say, the 
next time he was asked why these trees were full of 
fruit and the others barren, that they had not been 
injured with the plow. I could give very many in- 
stances of this kind, but my object being to call atten- 
tion to this matter, I will ask every one to make his 
own observations and comparisons ; let every farmer 
look into his neighbor's orchard and his own, and see 
what the effect of plowing is when compared with the 
unplowed orchard adjacent to that plowed ; let him 
call to recollection the fine orchard planted by his 
father, that is going into decay, and ask himself the 
cause, and he will receive more knowledge upon this 
subject than could be derived from volumes written 
upon orchards — though I would strongly recommend 
the perusal of all works written upon the subject of 
our business ; the avocations of life are alwa^^s pro- 
moted by a proper and strict inquiry after truth, and 
no agent should be neglected to the advancement of 
so desirable an end. 

My system is to work a tree just as I do the corn 
plant; the one as an annual, the other as a perennial ; 
give the tree all the cultivation it is to have while 
young, and before a set of organs are wanted for the 
perdurable formation of fruit; and when the tree puts 
on the appearance of premature decay, I give it a coat 
of manure spread upon the surface of the ground: 
this I apply in the fall of the year, always preferring 
long to short manure, and when ashes are deemed 
necessary, I have put them on in the spring. 

Shall I say a word here about peach-trees many 
years ago, which Mr. Downing represents to have 
grown anywhere in the United States, south of 43° 
of latitude ? Well, at that time there was but little 



GARDENING. 77 

demand for peaches as a market fruit, and they were 
for the most part converted into pork and brand}-. 
For these purposes, it did not answer at that period 
of time, to pick them oifthe trees by hand, but a neat 
grass lay was considered as indispensable to facilitate 
their collection, as step-ladders are at the present day. 
The peaches then were shaken oiF the trees, and the 
best selected, either for drying or for the still, and the 
hogs disposed of the remainder. 

There were several reasons why orchards were not 
destroyed at that time by tillage, and perhaps the 
most prominent one was that a grain crop in the 
orchard would prevent or retard the gathering of the 
peaches, which, by the by, were worth more than any 
grain crop that could be grown in the orchard ; but 
whenever an old peach -orchard was plowed a few 
times, a new one had to be planted, or at least such 
was the case 30 years ago, on some farms, to my cer- 
tain knowledge. I do not wish to be understood that 
the peach-tree can be grown at the present time with 
the same facility it could then, for I have no doubt 
that the pabulum necessary for the support of this 
tree has become in a great measure exhausted from 
the soil, but I presume it can be restored ; if so, we 
must get "the neighbors" to resuscitate their soils 
and to form a good stock by proper tillage; but when 
the trees come into full bearing, we must then feel 
satisfied with whatever Nature may be pleased to do 
in the premises, for any stirring of the soil after this 
period of growth is obtained, has a tendency to bring 
the orchard into decay, of which I can show hundreds 
of surviving witnesses. 

A careful inquiry will show that the peach-tree 
bea:au to decline about the close of our last war with 
7 * 



78 • GARDENING. 

England; grain commanding a very high price at 
that time, peaclies were only considered in a second- 
ary point of view, and orchards that probably had 
not been disturbed Avith the ploAV for 15 or 20 years 
previous, were then put in wheat, corn, &c. This 
soon brought the orchards into decay, and in many 
instances they were not replaced; and when replant- 
ed, they have been treated very differently from the 
original. We must now have a crop of grain, grass, 
or roots, but in former times such things were not 
expected from a peach orchard after it began to pro- 
duce full crops of fruit. 

ON THE CULTURE OF THE PEACH-TREE. 

Having bestowed much time and attention on the 
cultivation and preservation of fruit-trees, the follow- 
ing are the results of many experiments. After adopt- 
ing various modes in rearing the peach-tree, none 
succeeds so well as the following : In the fall of the 
year I bury the peach-stones (from wdiich I design to 
raise trees) in a hole under six or eight inches of 
earth, to remain there until the following spring, 
when I take them np, and after cracking the stone 
carefully, so as not to injure the kernels (most of 
which will be found swollen and ready to sprout), I 
then plant them in a trench eight or ten inches apart, 
where they are suffered to remain until the plant has 
acquired a growth of three or four inches in hight, 
when I transplant them to the place designed for my 
peach-orchard, placing small stones about the plant, 
to preserve them from being trod upon by the cattle, 
&c. It is unnecessary to be more explicit on this part 
of the subject; every farmer is acquainted with the 
mode of rearing, which is emphatically trifling, com- 



GARDENING. 79 

pared with the preserving of this valuable and deli- 
cious fruit-tree. Few have turned their attention 
to it, and of the few the smallest number have suc- 
ceeded : perhaps none have fully in preserving the 
peach-tree from decay for any length of time. I have, 
however, prevented the destruction of my trees for 
several successive seasons, and am entirely convinced 
of the efficacy of my plan in destroying an insect, 
which, of all other things, I believe most pernicious 
to the tree. It is a fact, of which perhaps few farmers 
are aware, that the peach-tree receives its death by an 
insect of the fly -kind, which annually deposits its eggs 
in the bark of the root of the tree, sometimes at or 
near the surface of the ground, but most generally 
under the surface. The egg is deposited by making 
small perforations : these are sometimes numerous, 
and from the circumstance of a gum issuing out of 
the wounded parts, there is no doubt that it ma- 
terially injures the health of the tree. Knowing this 
to be a fact, and believing the insect just alluded to, 
to be the primary, if not the sole cause of the failure 
of our peach orchards, I tried a variety of methods to 
destroy them, and found the following to have the 
desired efiect: In the fall of the year, when the 
eggs are deposited, I take, for a grown tree, a liand- 
ful of tobacco-stems, or what will do equally as well, 
about half a gallon of wood-ashes ; and after baring 
the roots, lay either of them on and about the trunk, 
and cover the whole with earth. The amber of the 
tobacco, and the ley of the ashes, are both fatal to the 
embryo insect, and will eflectually destro}'- it. For 
young and healthful trees a much smaller quantity 
will do, as they are seldom disturbed by the insect, 



80 GARDENING. 

from the circumstance of their roots being less ex- 
posed than those of an old tree. 

Many farmers, in my opinion, injure the health of 
peach-trees, and bring on premature decay by prun- 
ing. I have tried them with and without pruning, 
and am decidedly against using the pruning-hook at 
all. The reasons in favor of this plan are obvious. 
I suffer the tree to grow as ]S[ature pleases, which it 
does in the manner best calculated to withstand the 
shocks of storms, and to bear its fruit without props. 
In pursuing an opposite plan, by cutting off the first 
branches that appear, a long body is formed, and the 
tree ultimately divides in two or three main branches, 
which, when loaded with fruit, or during high winds, 
are apt to split asunder, and the death of the tree en- 
sues. It is true I have found it necessary sometimes 
to prop my trees ; but they never attain a great height, 
and take the shape which is given to them by nature. 
The load is so equally distributed that the necessary 
propping is easily done. In addition to what I have 
already stated, it may not be improper to add, that an 
intelligent farmer informed me, that merely to keep 
the earth about the root of the tree in the fall of the 
year, and removing it again when the winter sets in, 
would destroy the insect, whose eggs would then be 
exposed to the severe frost. I have never tried this 
experiment, but am of opinion that it would have a 
good effect. From its simplicity it is well M'orthy a 
trial. 

I prefer ashes, because they are always at hand, 
besides being a good manure for peach-trees. I have 
found a sandy soil best, both for a nursery and 
orchard. 



GAKDENING. 81 

PLANTING APPLE-ORCHARDS. 

The following mode of planting an orchard of 
apple-trees is possessed of many advantages. Ac- 
cording to the common mode, the trees are planted 
fifty feet apart, to give them room to spread to their 
full extent, and that the ground may be worked be- 
tween them for their benefit, as well as for the crop 
produced. The disadvantages arising from this plan 
are so many, as to have suggested the one now pro- 
posed in place of it. The disadvantages attending 
the usual mode of cultivation are : — 

1st. The trees grow up with a straight body, six or 
seven feet high, before they are sufiiered to produce 
their limbs. This large body is soon filled with 
worms under the bark, which is pecked into holes all 
around by the small wood-pecker searching after 
them. These two causes soon bring on the canker, 
which, in a little time, occasions the decay and death 
of the trees. 

2d. They frequently grow crooked and deformed, 
which is not only unsightl}', but a great injury. 

3d. Their bodies and large branches become full 
of moss, and harbor insects which prey upon them. 

4th. The trees planted thus, and especially where 
the ground is cultivated between them, grow luxu- 
riantly, throw out large branches, and form high 
trees with great heads : thus exposing them to the 
fury of the winds, which sometimes break ofi:' large 
branches, and Avhich, whenever it happens, if care 
is not taken to smooth the wound, and protect it 
from the air, bring on disease and decay. It also 
renders the fruit liable to be blown down, to the 



82 GARDENING. 

great loss of the proprietor. Thej^ are, besides, more 
difficult to prune and keep in order. Their fruit is 
more difficult and expensive to gather, owing to the 
hight and extent of the head, and thev seldom bear 
more than every other, or every third, year. 

By the following mode, all these disadvantages, 
it is believed, will be avoided. Tlie trees are to 
be planted at every twenty feet; the second spring 
after planting, head them dow^n at about three feet 
from the ground, so as to let four branches arise from 
the part left, taking care to pare away tlie part from 
the highest branch down close, so as to let the grow- 
ing bark cover the wound as soon as possible. This 
ought always to be well covered with Forsyth's com- 
position, until the scar is completely overgrown by 
the new wood. The following spring prune alb the 
four branches, which ought to be trained as regularly 
as they can be had on all sides of the body, each 
about a foot long, and suffer each of them to put out 
two shoots, rubbing off" with the finger all beside 
them. Thus you wall have from this time eight 
branches to form its head, and a body only about two 
feet long. All these eight branches are to be allowed 
to grow until the tree comes into bearing, taking care 
to allow no strong-growing, spongy shoot to grow be- 
yond its fellows, but keeping all of equal growth and 
size. When the tree comes to bear, four of these 
branches, — every other one, — are to be headed down, 
each to its lowest shoot, which is to be trained 
into the vacancy that has been made by lopping 
away the parent branch. While these four branches 
are in the progress of making new wood, the four 
that have been left are bearing, which they will do 



GARDENING. 83 

plentifullj for three, four, or five years, until the new 
wood has come into a bearing state, which may be 
known by the fruit -buds AA'hicli they will show 
in every part. When these new branches have 
arrived at this state, then cut out the four old ones 
that have borne fruit, and are now getting up pretty 
high, and bearing mostly on their tops. Take care in 
cutting out these old branches to do it as low as you 
can, and where their lowest shoot is, however small, 
or where there is even the appearance of a bud to 
shoot forth and renew them. These are to be trained 
in the same manner as before directed for the first 
that were cut out, until they arrive at the state and 
size to bear fruit in their turn again, when the last 
bearing ones once more undergo the same operation, 
and so on alternately. 

Note particularly in pruning, or in cutting away 
these branches, that it must be always done so near to 
the shoot or bud that grows to furnish the branch in 
the place of the one cut away, that the growing wood 
may cover the wound as soon as possible. In all 
cases where the knife is used, or any injury done in 
any way, the part must be smoothed, and the com- 
position applied without delay, at any season. The 
stems, or bodies of the trees, and the branches, are, 
once a year at least, to be washed with soft soap and 
water, which, by encouraging their growth, and pre- 
venting moss and insects from harboring therein, is 
of essential service to them. The advantages of this 
mode are, 

1st. The bodies being so short are easily kept clear 
and free from insects, and of course from the wounds 
made by the wood-pecker in searching for them, and 



84 GAKDENING. 

thus kept healthy aiul thriving, and of course highly 
fruitful. 

2d. They cannot hut he straight, with as many 
hranches on the one side as the other, hj' which the 
sap is regularly dispersed, conducing to the beauty, 
regularity, and health of the trees. 

3d. The trees are thus kept in perpetual youth, 
health, and fertility, and yield an annual crop. 

4th. Tliey are not subject to be broken by the high 
winds, nor their fruit to be lost by being broken off. 

5th. They can never contract moss on either body 
or branches, which greatly injures the large tree. 

6tli. Their fruit is easily thinned, and more easily 
gathered, and at less expense; and lastly, the plea- 
sure arising from an orchard thus growing and thus 
kept is naturally and properly enhanced by the consi- 
deration of its superior profitableness. 

Let any one go through the State, or the United 
States, and I will venture to say, that he will find 
almost every orchard with the body of the trees drilled 
in holes, and their branches covered with moss ; many 
of the trees bent and crooked; much old, naked, 
barren, and even dead wood upon them, and scarcely 
one that bears every year. To all those whose orchards 
are in this state, this mode ofters the only way to 
resuscitate and renovate them. Cut down trees that 
are crooked, wounded, irregular, diseased, or decayed, 
and train up the best and strongest shoot that will 
put up from the part left, or from the root, and by 
managing them as above directed, in a few years a 
young, healthful orchard will take the place of an 
old, cankery, decayed, unsightly, and unfruitful 
one. It is scarcely necessary to add, that the more 



GARDENING. 85 

the ground is stirred between the trees the more 
they will grow and flourish. The best manure for 
them is marsh mud ; salt marsh, if to be had, but 
never fresh stable manure. The salt in the mud con- 
duces to the health of the trees, destro^-s slugs, worms, 
and insects, and this manure carries no weeds into the 
orchard. 

A comparison of the productiveness and profit of an 
orchard cultivated in the old way, with one treated in 
the manner now proposed, will show the superiority 
of the latter over the former in a strong point of view. 
An acre will contain only sixteen trees at fifty feet 
apart, whereas it will contain two hundred at twenty 
feet ; the first only bears every other year. Let us 
then take them when in full bearing, and see their 
product for a space of ten years. We will allow 
each large tree to bear twenty bushels ; this will 
give 16 by 20 = 320 bushels for the acre ; and as the 
trees only bear half the time, consequently in the ten 
years they will produce sixteen hundred bushels. Al- 
low only five bushels per tree for the small orchard, 
the hundred trees in the acre will produce five hun- 
dred bushels, and as they bear every year, the ten 
years will give five thousand bushels. If it be said 
the allowance of five bushels is too much for a small 
tree, let it be remembered that this tree is always 
in a healthy and fruitful state ; that its bearing being 
renewed every four or five years, it is always young 
and lusty, and able to bear a good crop. Let it also 
be remembered that an average of twenty bushels to 
the large trees is a great allowance, which, I will ven- 
ture to say, is never realized. Thus, then, whether 
we consider the beauty, the regularity, the health, or 



86 GARDENING. 

the vigor of the trees on the plan proposed ; their 
greater fruitfuhiess, and consequent profit ; their per- 
petual renovation and youth ; the ease with which 
their superabundant fruit is thinned and gathered ; 
their greater exemption from injuries from high winds ; 
we cannot but perceive that the advantages are so 
many, and so decisive, as to give the plan a marked 
superiority. 

FRUIT TREES. 

The new method of raising fruit-trees by planting 
the scions is a great desideratum in the art of obtain- 
ing good fruit. It has many advantages over graft- 
ing, because it is more expeditious, and requires no 
stock or tree. They may be planted where they are 
required to stand, and the labor for one day will be 
sufficient to plant out enough for a large orchard. 
After the scions are obtained, the method of prepar- 
ing the plant is as follows : Take the scion as for 
grafting, and at any time after the first of February, 
and until the buds begin to grow considerably, and 
dip each end of the shoot in melted pitch, Avax, or 
tallow, and bury it in the ground, the buds uppermost, 
while the body lies in a horizontal position, and at the 
depth of two or three inches. We are informed that 
trees obtained in this way will bear in three or four 
years from the time of planting. We have no doubt 
of the practicability of this method of raising fruit. 

A gentleman in this vicinity the last season planted 
about twenty scions of different kinds of pears, which 
appear to flourish. The composition he used was 
melted shoemaker's wax. 



GARDENING. 8T 



PLUGGING TREES, 



This operation is a very efficient remedy for de- 
stroying caterpillars, and other insects, preying upon 
the limbs of fruit-trees, &c. 

It has often been desired to find such a remedy. 
Our shade-trees are covered every 3^ear Avitli disgust- 
ing and voracious caterpillars. Year after year, new, 
troublesome, and costly means are proposed, which 
are inefficient ; while this very easy and cheap way to 
poison and destroy at once all the insects of any tree 
is so little Ivnown, that our farmers and gardeners ap- 
pear to be unacquainted with it. It was discovered 
in France, and I have verified it by the knowledge of 
it everywhere. This simple operation consists in 
boring a hole with a large spike gimlet about one- 
third the diameter of the tree in depth. Fill the hole 
nearly fall with the flour of sulphur, and plug it up 
by driving in a wooden peg. This does not injure 
the tree in the least, but the sulphur is decomposed, 
or carried into the circulation by the sap, and is ex- 
haled by the leaves in a gaseous state, while it poi- 
sons and kills all the caterpillars and insects preying 
upon them. 

PEACH-WORM. 

A mixture of one ounce saltpetre, and seven ounces 
salt, applied on the surface of the ground, in contact 
and around the trunk of a peach-tree, seven 3'ears 
old and upwards, will destroy the worm, prevent the 
yellows, and add much to the product and quality of 
the fruit. The orchard also may be sown with the 
same mixture, at the rate of two bushels to the acre. 



GARDENING. 



THE CANKER-WORM. 



Take one gallon of cheap whale oil, one pound 
flour sulphur, twelve ounces sal ammoniac, and one 
pound chloride of lime. Let the sal-ammoniac and 
lime be made fine, so that all parts may mix together. 
Take some old or cheap woollen cloth (about nine 
inches wide, and in length according to the size of 
the tree), and tie it round about the middle so as to 
encircle the tree, letting the upper part of the cloth 
hang over like the collar of a coat, so as to form a 
curve for the millers to run into. The cloth may be 
dipped in the mixture, or it may be well to spread it 
on with a paint-brush, and it may be well to renew 
it once or twice a week till the millers have done 
flying. This was tried last season, after the worms 
were fully grown. Being shaken from the trees, 
they attempted to ascend, and would die in two 
minutes after they came in contact with the above 
ingredients. 

ANOTHER. 

A complete remedy against the ravages of the 
canker-worm has been discovered : it is simply to 
encircle the tree at the surface of the ground with 
Scotch snuff. The writer of this has examined trees 
thus treated, and found the circle of snuft' completely 
fringed with thousands of dead worms. The trees 
were all tarred, and where the snufl:' was used, no 
worms appeared on the tar, and where the snuflf was 
omitted the insects nearly covered the tar. 



GARDENING. 89 



COMPOSITION FOR HEALING WOUNDS IN TREES. 

Melt a pound of tar with four ounces of tallow, 
and half an ounce of saltpeter, and stir the whole 
together. A coat of this composition, applied to a cut 
or bruise, will prevent its decay, and cause the wound 
to heal. Before applying it, all the unsound part 
should be cleared away. 

CEMENT FOR GRAFTING. 

Two pounds and two ounces of rosin, six ounces 
of tallow, and ten ounces of beeswax. Melt them 
together, and turn the mixture into cold water, and 
let it remain till cool enough to handle; then work 
it as shoemakers' wax. It will remain on the stock 
for years. It is not so soft as to run in hot weather, 
nor so hard as to crack in cold weather. 

All of the ingredients for making this cement must 
be of good quality. 

SOAP-SUDS FOR WATERING PLANTS. 
Every one who has a garden, should have all the 
soap-suds saved to water plants with. It will be 
found to improve the growth of plants very much. 

APPLES. 

I have statements, without number, of the value of 
apples for feeding swine. In one case the gain upon 
raw apples was eleven pounds' weight in twelve days ; 
and in this case nothing except apples was used. The 
best form of using them seems to be to boil them with 
potatoes ; and it is recommended to put the apples at 
8* 



90 GARDENING. 

the bottom of tlie kettle, and the potatoes thus become 
impregnated with their flavor. Many farmers pro- 
nounce them equal in value to potatoes for the fatten- 
ing of swine, milk-cows, and beef-cattle. There is no 
food more healthful or nutritious for human beings 
than apples, cooked or raw. The free use of apples 
and milk in place of tea and coffee would give to the 
young members of the family vigorous bodies and 
bright minds, and abate a large item in domestic ex- 
penses likewise. 

GEOLOGICAL DEFINITIONS. 

The primitive earths are four; clay, sand, lime, 
and magnesia. Clay is called by geologists alumina, 
or argillaceous earth. Sand is called silex, siliceous 
eartb, or earth of flints. Lime, as it exists in the 
soil, is commonly called calcareous earth. Each of 
these earths answ^ers a determinate and specific pur- 
pose in the economy and growth of plants, and the 
perfection of the soil lies in the mixture of the whole. 

Basis of the wdiole : the primitive earths which 
enter into its composition. A'egetable matter: all 
vegetable substances in a decaying or rotten state. 
Animal matter: all animal substances in a putrefying 
state. Organic matter : a term applied both to animal 
and vegetable substances in a putrefying state. Ve- 
getable mold : the earthy remains of vegetable sub- 
stances which have either grown or decayed on the 
soil, or have been conveyed thither in the progress 
of cultivation. Loam is a combination of vegetable 
mold with the primitive earth. Marl is a substance 
consisting of lime, with a small portion of clay, and 



GAKDENING. 91 

sometimes of peat, witli a marine sand and animal 
remains. It is useful as a manure, and distinguished 
by shell, clay, and stone marl. 

CORNSTALK SUGAR — DIRECTIONS FOR CULTIVATING THE 
CORNSTALKS, AND MAKING SUGAR. 

With regard to the culture, it is stated that corn 
should be planted as broom-corn is commonly planted, 
very close in the row, probably a stalk every three or 
four inches. The tillage will be the same as for 
broom-corn. When the young ears begin to appear, 
pluck them off carefull}^, and repeat the gathering 
as often as necessary, so as to prevent the formation 
of any grain ; because, if grain be allowed to form, 
it takes all the sugar from the stalk. About the time 
the corn begins to harden, the making of sugar should 
begin. It is not necessary to say anything about a 
proper mill to crush the stalk and separate the juice, 
because mills of the cheapest kinds only should be 
employed now, until the business would fully war- 
rant an expensive outlay. It would probably be 
found that the common cider-mill, with plain cylin- 
drical nuts, would be quite sufficient for the farmer 
who would raise a fourth or half an acre of sugar-corn 
for his family, and this quantity would be sufficient for 
a satisfactory experiment. 

When the juice is separated from the stalk, about 
a tablespoonful of whitewash, made of the best quick- 
lime, and about the consistence of thick cream, should 
be added to each gallon of the juice, and then the 
boiling should commence. The scum that rises should 
be carefully removed; and the juice, if this process 
has been properly conducted, will be quite clear — 



92 GARDENING. 

nearly colorless. Then commences the process of 
evaporation ; and when the juice has boiled down in 
about the proportion of eight gallons to one, the boil- 
ing will be completed, and it may be poured into a 
shallow, tight wooden box to grain. 

It has been ascertained, that if the juice be boiled 
in a deep vessel, like the common cooking vessel, 
sugar will seldom be obtained ; while if it be done in 
a shallow vessel, so that the juice at the commence- 
ment of the boiling shall not be more than three to 
five inches deep, sugar will be obtained without dif- 
ficulty. It has been ascertained, also, that the sugar 
from corn will not grain so readily as that from sugar- 
cane. And in some instances, it has remained more 
than a week after the boiling, before the sugar was 
formed, and yet excellent sugar was made. 

It should be particularly remembered, that the juice 
should be boiled as soon as extracted from the stalk. 
It becomes acid very soon, and no sugar can be made 
if the juice be allowed to stand two or three hours 
before it is boiled. The juice will even spoil in the 
stalk before it is ground, if the stalk be cut off a few 
hours before grinding. It is necessar}^, then, that 
every part of the process should be done with the 
greatest dispatch. The stalks should be brought to 
the mill as soon as cut, and ground immediately. 
The vessel for boiling ought to be properl}- tilled in 
an hour, or at most two hours, after grinding; and 
the process of boiling down should immediately com- 
mence, and be continued until completed. 

Excellent syrup, superior to the best molasses, will 
be obtained by observing the above directions, and 
boiling five gallons of juice down to one gallon. 



GARDENING. 93' 

The juice of the corn-stalk is very rich in sugar, 
when cultivated in the manner suggested. One gal- 
lon of juice will produce nearly 1:^ pounds of sugar. 

JAUFFRET'S MODE OF MANUFACTURING MANURE. 

The first thing to be done, is to prepare a quantity 
of saturated water, which is done by having a vat 
made of any convenient size, which is half filled with 
water, and into which are thrown weeds, and almost 
any kind of vegetable matter that will ferment readily, 
so as to fill it, with the water, three-fourths full. He 
then adds, to a vat twelve feet long, six feet wide, and 
six feet deep, ten pounds of quick -lime, and five 
ounces of sal-ammoniac. Then you may add sink- 
water, refuse from the kitchen, dead animals, and 
such like matters. Stir it up occasionally, and if it 
becomes too offensive in odor, add more unslacked 
lime to it. The next step is to have another vat, 
smaller than the other, into which suflBcient of the 
above made liquor is to be put to dissolve, or mix 
with the following materials, which last prepared 
water he calls Lessive. 

Take 200 lbs. of fecal matter and urine (from 
privies,) 50 lbs. of chimney-soot, 400 lbs. of gyp- 
sum (plaster of Paris,) 60 lbs. of unslacked lime, 20 
lbs. of uideached wood-ashes, 1 lb. of sea-salt, 10 ozs. 
of saltpeter, and 50 lbs. of what he calls leaven of ma- 
nure. Mix all these with the saturating water till it 
makes a thick porridge. The leaven of manure is 
the drainings of a former operation, if there has been 
one. The above ingredients should be mixed as fol- 
lows : — Stir the first vat up till it is thick, and then 
pour a portion of it into the lessive vat; into this 
throw the lime, then the soot, next the ashes, then 



94 GARDENING. 

the fecal matter ; and lastly, the saltpeter. The plas- 
ter of Paris is to be thrown in little by little, stirring 
the mixture to prevent caking. When the whole is 
well mixed, stir in the leaven. 

When the above substances cannot be obtained 
but at too great expense, Jauffret substitutes other 
things; for instance: — Instead of fecal matter and 
■urine, take 280 lbs. of horse, cow^, or pig dung; for 
the gypsum, 100 lbs. of baked or burnt earth or 
clayey loam ; for the soot, 100 lbs. sheep manure, and 
the same weight in mud ; for the unleached ashes, 50 
lbs. of leached ashes or 2 lbs. of potash; for sea-saU., 
100 lbs. of sea-water. If you come short of lessive, 
make it up with the saturating water, always using 
the most impure and puti-id that you can obtain. 

Having got the above materials ready, clear away 
a spot of ground, and beat it hard, so that water will 
not soak in readily, and make little pits around this 
plat into which the liquor which drains from the heap 
may run. Then take your straw, weeds, &c., or what- 
ever you wish to convert into manure, and put them 
into a vat of lessive ; wet and pack them into a heap, 
treading them down so as to make them compact. 
At every layer, of a foot, pour on a quantity of the 
lessive, and tread it in so that the whole shall be well 
mixed together. The heap may be six or seven feet 
high, and when all is packed, spread the bottom of 
the lessive vat on the top so as to slime it all over, 
beating and pressing all about so as to make it as 
snug and compact as possible. At the end of 48 
hours a fermentation commences. On the third day 
the top of the heap is to be opened six inches, and 
the sediment which was thrown on to the top is turned 
over, and another drenching is given with the lessive, 



GARDENING. 95 

and again covered up as before. On the seventh day, 
make holes near each other with a fork, say three feet 
deep, and another drenching given and again covered 
up. About the ninth day give it another drenching 
through holes somewhat deeper. In 12 or 15 days 
the manure will be fit to spread. 

It will at once be perceived that it will not do to 
work upon this in freezing weather. Our readers will 
also perceive that the principle of manufacturing 
manure in this way depends on mixing matters in a 
putrefying and liquid state, to those which are dry 
and inert, so as to bring about fermentation among 
the whole, and reduce them to a soluble state ; or, as 
we before expressed it, using a rotten liquor to assist 
in the decomposition of vegetable matters. 

ON PREPARING SEED-CORN. 

Dissolve saltpeter in water, so as to make it very 
strong. Soak your seed-corn therein, until it becomes 
swelled ; then plant it in the usual way, taking care 
not to let it be long out of the brine before it is co- 
vered. It will produce three times the crop, and ripen 
sooner than the same sort of corn planted without 
soaking, on ground of the same qualit}^ 

WATERING GARDENS. 

It is necessary to water gardens for various pur- 
poses ; as aliment to plants in a growing state, as 
support to newly transplanted plants, for keeping 
under insects, and keeping clean the leaves of vege- 
tables. One general rule must be ever kept in mind 
during the employment of water in a garden ; that 
is, never to water the top or leaves of a plant when 
the sun shines upon it. It should be done either in 



96 GARDENING. 

the evening or early in the morning, unless the water- 
ing be confined to the roots ; in which case, trans- 
planted plants and others may be watered at any 
time ; and if they are shaded from the sun, may also 
be watered over their tops. 

Many kitchen crops are lost, or produce inferior 
quality, for want of proper attention of this kind. 
The fulness of succulency, which copious waterings 
in the evenings would impart to vegetables, would 
amply repay the trouble. 

REMARKS. 

Perform every operation in the proper season, and 
in the best manner, completing every part of it as you 
proceed. Finish one job before beginning another. 
In quitting work for the day, leave all in an orderly 
manner, making a temporary finish, and putting the 
tools carefully away. 

Keep your walks and every part of your garden in 
perfect order. A small garden, well tilled, will be 
more remunerative than a larger one imperfectly 
tilled. 



COOKERY. 



CUKma AND COOKma MEATS. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Meat inteuded for salting should hang a few days, 
until its fibres become short and tender ; instead of 
bein<r salted as soon as it comes from the market ; 
though in very hot weather it may be requisite to salt 
as soon as possible, beginning by wiping dry, taking 
out the kernels and pipes, and filling the holes with 
salt. 

BEEF AND PORK, 

After being examined and wiped, should be sprin- 
kled with water and hung to dry for a few hours 
before they are rubbed with salt; this cleanses the 
meat from blood, and improves the delicacy. The 
salt should be rubbed in evenly ; first half the quantity 
of salt, and after two days the remainder. The meat 
should be turned every day, kept covered with the 
pickle, and rubbed daily. If required, the brine will 
serve for more than one parcel of meat, if it be boiled, 
skimmed, and used cold. 

In salting beef, the brisket and flat ribs should be 
jointed, so as to let in the salt, which should also be 
rubbed well into each piece. The meat should then 
9 (97) 



98 COOKERY. 

be put down tightly in the salt, — the prime pieces at 
the bottom and covered with salt; the coarse at the 
top to be used first. 

TO CURE HAMS. 

Cover the bottom of the cask with salt, lay on the 
hams with the smooth or skin side down, sprinkle 
fine salt, then another layer of hams, and so continue 
until the cask is full. This ought to be of the larger 
kind. A cask holding sixty-four gallons is small 
enough, and it Avould be better if it held one hundred 
and thirty gallons. Make a brine in the following 
proportions : six gallons of water, nine pounds of salt, 
four pounds of brown sugar, four ounces of saltpeter, 
one ounce of saleratus. Scald and skim, and, when 
cold, pour the brine into the cask. The hams should 
remain in this pickle at least three months. 

CURING PORK. 

As soon as the hogs are dressed, and cool enough 
to be cut up, pack the side-pieces in a cask or barrel, 
with plenty of salt on all sides of each piece : and 
when the cask is full, immediately roll it to the pump, 
and pump in water until the water ceases to sink in 
the vessel. Then lay a flat stone, as large as the 
vessel will receive, on the top, so as to keep the pork 
always under the pickle ; put it in the cellar, covered 
so as to exclude the flies and air, and there let it 
remain until a piece is wanted. Care must be taken 
to keep the meat under the pickle, otherwise it will 
rust. Here is the whole secret of making good 
pickled pork for family use. 

Alum or rock salt made fine should be made use 
of for rubbing and putting down the meat in the cask, 



COOKERY. 99 

and if the pork is bloody it would be better to salt the 
meat well with fine salt on boards for forty-eight 
hours to let all the blood drain off", and then pack 
down as above. 

TO CURE BACON — SAID TO BE EQUAL TO THE BURLINGTON 
METHOD OF CURING HAMS. 

First salt the pork well with fine salt, and pack it 
away on boards, with a slope sufficient to let the brine 
run off. In this situation it lies eight or ten days, 
when it is taken up, and each piece wiped dry with a 
coarse cloth, and to each ham and shoulder is added 
a heaping teaspoonful of the best crystallized salt- 
peter, by sprinkling over them, and rubbing it well 
in with the hand. It is then salted well again, and 
packed away in tight casks, as it then may be an 
advantage to retain or preserve all the brine you can : 
whereas the first brine, I have found from experience, 
to be of great injury, as it tends to putrescence, and 
should by no means be re-absorbed by the meat lying 
in it, after being extracted by the salt, as I conceive it 
to be that which so easily produces the bugs and 
skippers in the meat after it has been smoked. The 
time of putting on the saltpeter is of much more im- 
portance than is supposed by those who have not 
made the trial ; for if put on at the first salting, the 
meat is always dry, hard, and too salt. On giving 
the meat a second salting, I add to the salt as much 
brown sugar as will moisten or dampen it, and as much 
of the common red pepper as will give the salt quite a 
red appearance. The pods are first dried before a fire, 
or on a griddle, and then pounded fine in a mortar. 
The meat then lies about five or six weeks, except 
farther south, where the climate is more moderate ; 



100 COOKERY. 

these four weeks will answer, except the meat be very 
large and the weather continue very cold. It is then 
taken out, and each piece rubbed Avell with hickory 
ashes, and hung up to smoke with the hock down- 
ward, which prevents its dripping, and thereby re- 
tains its juice. The coarse alum salt, made fine, 
should be made use of at the second salting, as it is 
much more effectual in preserving the meat sweet 
and pure. Should there not be sufficient pickle from 
the last salting to cover the hams and shoulders, a 
strong brine may be made with alum salt, enough to 
answer the purpose, by boiling it well — observing to 
skim it while boiling as long as any scum arises, and 
the brine should not be put on till cold. It is not 
very essential to add the saltpeter to the middlings, 
or to cover them with pickle, as they are easily pre- 
served without, particularly when the ribs or bones 
are taken out, which should be the case when they 
are large, say when the hogs are over one hundred 
pounds in weight. It may be well to let the meat 
hang one day to dry before a smoke is made, which 
should be done with hickory or oak chips raked up 
from the wood-pile ; and in order to prevent a blaze 
or too much heat, it would be well to add or mix a 
little saw-dust made from the hickory or oak wood, 
or tanner's bark might do very well to add with the 
oak chips. After the meat is sufficiently smoked, 
which might be in tlie course of four or five weeks, 
if regularly attended to, it might be taken down and 
packed away in casks or boxes, with charcoal made 
fine, covering the meat entirely with it; and in the 
course of tlie summer it might be taken out once or 
twice, and examined, and sunned if necessary. The 
hams and shoulders might be preserved in a good 



COOKERY. 101 

state during the summer if they were sewed up in 
good stout linen bags, painted or lined, provided it 
was done early in the spring, before any flies made 
their appearance. Middlings might remain hung up 
in the smoke-house, and keep very well b}' taking 
them down two or three times to sun, or by making 
a smoke occasionally under them on a damp day. 

TO CURE HAMS SO AS TO PRESERVE THEM FROM FLIES. 

For a score of hams, take about three quarts of 
salt, one pint of molasses, quarter of a pound of black 
pepper, and two ounces of saltpeter pulverized ; mix 
well together ; lay the hams on a table with the rind 
downwards; rub the mixture over them with the 
hand, taking care to apply it to every part where there 
is no rind ; let them lay a week, and rub them over 
with clear salt, which continue once a week for four 
or five weeks, according to the size of the hams ; they 
are then ready to smoke ; or if you choose, after the 
mixture is sutficiently struck in, put them into brine 
for two or three weeks before you smoke them ; and 
when smoked, hang them in a dry place. When a 
ham is cut for use, hang or lay it where you please, 
the flies will not touch it. "We have practised this 
method for several years, and have no reason to 
abandon it. 

HAM BOROUGH PICKLE. 

The following constitutes the famed Ilamborough 
pickle, which has been found to preserve meat effect- 
ually, in hot as well as in cold climates: — 

Six pounds of alum-salt, eight ounces of brown 
sugar, and six ounces of saltpeter. Dissolve these 
9* 



102 COOKERY. 

articles by boiling in four gallons of water. In this 
pickle, when jjerfectly cold, keep any kind of meat 
sunk and stopped closely. The pickle will also keep 
beef from being hard and too salt when boiled. 
Tongues, veal, or mutton, for smoking, should not 
remain in the pickle longer than ten days. Beef, or 
tongues, when taken out of the pickle, for boiling, 
should be kept twenty-four hours in cold water, and 
then drained before they are boiled. 

TO PRESERVE BEEF TENDER AND SWEET THROUGHOUT 
THE YEAR. 

For one hundred weight of beef, prepare the follow- 
ing : Four quarts of coarse alum-salt, made fine ; four 
pounds of brown sugar, and four ounces of saltpeter. 
Mix these articles well together ; then rub your meat 
with it, and pack closely in the barrel. Sufiicient 
pickle will soon be made in the cask by this process. 
By no means use any water, as it will spoil the meat 
when the weather becomes warm. If, at any time, a 
scum rise on the barrel, skim it off, and sprinkle into 
it a little fine salt, which will preserve the pickle. — 
Some persons, fearing their beef will be injured in 
warm weather, take out the pickle and boil it. This 
is wrong, as it will harden the beef, and entirely 
change its flavor. 

TO PRESERVE MEAT FRESH FOR A FEW DAYS. 

Put the meat into the water running from a spring. 
It will sink. Examine it daily ; when it begins to 
rise from the bottom, it must be used. It will be found 
perfectly sound and tender, and may be boiled or 
roasted. Meat may be preserved in this manner 



COOKERY. 103 

three or four days in summer-time free from taint. — 
The outside will appear somewhat whitened, but the 
flavor is not injured. It would be advisable to have 
a box or tub with a cover, into and out of which the 
water shall have free passage, wdiich may be put eitlier 
inside or outside of the spring-house. 

TO RESTORE TAINTED MEAT. 

If your meat be tainted, take it out of the pickle ; 
wash it so as to cleanse it of the oiFensive pickle. 
Then wash your barrel well, with a solution either of 
lime or ashes, after which re-pack it, and between 
every layer of meat put a layer of charcoal until your 
barrel be full ; then make a fresh pickle strong enough 
to bear an egg, and fill up your barrel. As you re- 
pack your pieces, it would be well to rub each piece 
with salt. Let it remain a week or ten days, and the 
taint will have disappeared, and the meat be restored 
to its original sweetness. 

TO SWEETEN MEAT, FISH, ETC., THAT ARE TAINTED. 

"When meat, fish, &c., from intense heat or long 
keeping, are likely to pass into a putrescent state, a 
simple and pure mode of keeping them sound and 
healthful is, to put a few pieces of charcoal, each 
the size of an egg, into the pot wherein the fish or 
flesh is to be boiled. Among others, an experiment 
of this kind was tried upon a turbot, which appeared 
too far gone to be eatable. The cook, as advised, put 
three or four pieces of charcoal under the strainer, 
in the flsh-kettle, and after boiling the proper time, 
the turbot came to the table perfectly sweet and 
clean. 



104 COOKERY 



COOKING MEAT. 

The preparation of meat for the table is usually 
performed either by boiling, roasting, or stewing ; and 
much of its excellence as food, or value for the pur- 
poses of nutrition, depends upon the manner in which 
these operations are severally performed. 

In boiling meat, particularly that which is salted, 
if the following particulars are ol)served, the meat 
will be properly boiled : the water used is better soft 
— and the meat after being thoroughly washed should 
be placed over the fire in cold water, that the whole 
may be gradually heated, and thus boiled equally. 
Salted meat should never be boiled fast ; it is better 
to be simmered only, as fast boiling makes such meat 
hard. Pieces of meat chosen for boiling, should be 
of the same thickness throughout, or they will be un- 
equally cooked. An essential condition of boiling 
meat properly, and have it retain a good appearance, 
is to keep the pot well skimmed, and steadily but 
gently boiling. The coagulated albuminous matter 
that rises on the surface in boiling, if not removed, 
will attach itself to the meat and injure both its ap- 
pearance and flavor. Good cooks allow thirty minutes 
slow boiling to every pound of meat, reckoning from 
the commencement of the boiling. Flesh or fish 
boiled in an open vessel, will leave the lean or fibrous 
part more tender, than if the vessel is covered. With 
the farmer, more meat is cooked by boiling than in 
any other way, and it is, therefore, important that 
the best and most economical way should always be 
chosen. 

A large part of the meat used in cities is roasted, 
and every one is aware how much the character of 



COOKERY. 105 

beef or mutton depends on this operation. With 
regard to the manner of cooking meat in this way, 
the taste of no inconsiderable portion of the com- 
munity appears verging to the Abyssinian standard, 
and we may soon expect to hear that roasting of beef 
is entirely dispensed with, and that it is eaten by the 
ultra-fashionables before it has time to cool after being 
killed. We have some doubts, however, whether 
man was destined to feed on raw flesh, and believe 
that the nutritive effect is much increased, and the 
mechanical labor of the teeth and stomach much 
diminished, by a proper system of cooking. The true 
criterion is, that the meat roasted be tender, and this 
cannot be done by placing it for a few moments be- 
fore or over a hot fire, by which the outside is burned 
and the inside left unchanged or raw. The process 
must be gradual to be complete, and the more per- 
fectly cooked the meat is, the better and more nutri- 
tive it will be, and the easier of digestion. 

Stewing is nothing else than boiling by means of a 
small quantity of water or broth, and continuing the 
operation for a long time to render the substance 
tender, the texture loose, to make it more sapid, and 
to retain or concentrate the most valuable parts of 
animal or vegetable food. The process of stewing 
must be conducted with a small quantity of water, 
the heat steady, but gentle, so as to raise the fluid 
only to a simmering heat, and covered so as to pre- 
vent the escape of the fluid by evaporation. Much 
of the good quality of the dishes prepared by stew- 
ing, is dependent on the management of the fire, for 
if the heat is too great the softening of the meat will 
not be as perfect, and water must be frequently added, 
or it would burn on to the vessel. The kinds of meat 



106 COOKERY. 

most suitable for stewing, or which are the most im- 
proved by the process, are those that abound in fibrin 
or lean, and which are frequently too dry or tough 
for roasting. In stewing, those portions of meat that 
cannot be eaten roasted, and are rarely boiled, as the 
hard, muscular or tendinous parts, — the hocks of beef, 
for instance, — are converted into a rich, gelatinous 
nutritive food, of the most savory kind, and can be 
served up with proper vegetables, or used as gravy or 
soup. In stewing, the great danger is burning the 
meat by allowing the water to evaporate. This 
guarded against, stewed meats are excellent. 

FRYING PORK. 

Take one fresh egg, beat it, add half a gill of sour 
milk, and a sufiicient quantity of flour to make a 
batter; freshen and fry the pork as usual, then dip 
the pieces in the batter, w^hich will of course adhere ; 
replace them in the fat, and after a little more frying, 
a light and delicate cake will enclose the meat, and 
thus constitute a dish for a middling-sized family, 
which will tempt the palate of the most fastidious. 

TO GLAZE A COLD HAM. 

With a brush or quill-feather, go all over the ham 
with beaten yolk of egg. Then cover it thickly with 
pounded cracker, made as fine as flour, or with grated 
crumbs of stale bread. Lastly, go over it with thick 
cream. Put it to brown in the oven or stove. This 
glazing will be found delicious. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

Hams should always be soaked in water previous 
to boiling, to draw out a portion of the salt and to 
make them tender. They will soften more easily if 



COOKERY. 107 

soaked in lukewarm water. If it is a new ham, and 
not very hard or salt, you need not put it in water 
till the evening before you intend to cook it. An 
older one will require twenty-four hours' soaking; 
and one that is very old and hard should be kept in 
soak two or three days, frequently changing the water, 
which must be soft. Soak it in a tub, and keep it 
well covered. When you take it out of the water to 
prepare it for boiling, scrape and trim it nicely, and 
pare off all the bad -looking parts. Early in th^ 
morning put it into a large pot or kettle with plenty 
of cold water ; place it over a slow fire, that it may 
heat gradually ; it should not come to a boil in less 
than an hour and a half, or two hours. "When it 
boils, quicken the fire and skim the pot carefully. 
Then simmer gently four or five hours more, accord- 
ing to the size. A ham weighing fifteen pounds 
should simmer five hours after it has come to a boil. 
Keep the pot well skimmed. When it is done, take 
it up, carefully strip off' the skin and reserve it to 
cover the ham when it is put away cold. Rub the 
ham all over with some beaten egg, and strew on it 
fine bread raspings, through the lid of a dredging 
box. Then place it in an oven to brown and crisp, 
or on a hot dish set over the pot before the fire. Cut 
some writing-paper into handsome fringe, and twist 
it round the shank-bone before you send the ham to 
the table. Garnish the edge of the dish with little 
piles or spots of rasped crust of bread. In carving a 
ham, begin not quite in the center, but a little nearer 
to the hock. Cut the slices very thin. It is not only 
a most ungenteel practice to cut ham in thick slices, 
but it much impairs the flavor. 



108 COOKERY. 

When yon put it away after dinner, skewer on 
again the skin. This will make it keep better. Ham 
should always be accompanied by green vegetables, 
such as asparagus, peas, beans, spinach, cauliflower, 
broccoli, &c. 

BAKED OR ROAST PIG. 

Take out the inwards; take off the first joint of the 
feet; boil both tender and chop them. Make a dress- 
ing of bread soaked soft, the water pressed out, and 
mashed fine ; season with pepper, salt, and sage, add- 
ing a little butter, and then fill the pig with this stuff- 
ing. To prevent blistering, rub a little butter over 
the pig. Roast or bake it 2^ hours. The oven should 
contain a little water ; and when the meat is done, 
mix with a little dressing and gravy from the pan, 
the chopped feet, &c., and use this for a sauce. Ex- 
pose the pig to the open air two or three minutes be- 
fore sending it to the table, first rubbing it over with 
a little butter, to make it crisp. 

TO BARBACUE SHOAT.— A SOUTHERN DISH. 

Shoat means a fat young hog, weighing about 24 
pounds without head or feet. Make several incisions 
between the ribs of a fore-quarter, and stuff" it with 
rich force-meat. Put it in a pan with a pint of water, 
salt, pepper, two cloves of garlick, a tumbler of good 
red wine, and one of mushroom catsup. Bake it, and 
thicken the gravy with brown flour and butter. To 
facilitate the carving, joint and cut the ribs before 
cooking. Lay the ribs up in the dish. Garnish with 
balls. 



COOKERY. 109 

TO BROIL HAM. 

Ham is better broiled than fried. Slice it thin, and 
broil on a gridiron. "When dished, place a fried egg 
on each slice. It should be broiled over bright coals, 
from five to eight minutes, turning it over once. 

TO BOIL HAM. 

Put it on in cold water, and let it simmer without 
boiling, unless very moderately, four or five hours. 
The water should be changed if the ham is very salt; 
and, before it is carried to the table, take ofi" the rind. 
Put over it whole pepper or cloves in diamond figures, 
if you wish to ornament it in a simple way. A ham, 
if very dry, should be soaked from twelve to twenty- 
four hours in warm water before using. 

TO TOAST HAM. 

After boiling it well, take the skin off; cover the 
top thick with bread-crumbs, and brown it in an 
oven. 

TO STUFF HAM. 

Take a ham well smoked and washed, (let the skin 
remain on,) and make incisions all over the top two 
inches deep ; stuff them full with chopped parsley and 
some pepper; — to be eaten cold. 

SOUSE. 
Clean pig's feet and ears thoroughly, and soak 
them a day in salt and water; boil them tender and 
split them. To souse them cold, pour boiling vinegar, 
spiced with mace and pepper-corns, over them. Cloves 
give the souse a dark color, but improve the taste. If a 
little salt be added, they will keep good pickled a 
month or two. 
10 



110 COOKERY. 



PRESSED HEAD. 

Boil the several parts of the entire head, and the 
feet in the same way as for souse. All must be boiled 
so perfectly tender as to have the meat easily separate 
from the bones ; and after neatly separated, chop the 
meat fine while warm, seasoning with salt and pep- 
per, and other spices to taste. Put it in a strong bag, 
and, placing a weight on it, let it remain till cold, or 
put it in any convenient dish, placing a plate with a 
weight on it to press it; cut it in slices, and serve 
cold with vinegar, or fry it. 

SAUSAGES. 

Chop fat and lean fresh pork, (a greater proportion 
of lean,) very fine, season it very highly with pep- 
per, salt, sage, and other sweet herbs if liked. A 
little saltpeter tends to preserve them. When fresh 
pork cannot be had, very good sausages may be made 
of beef. 

To make Bologna sausages, take equal weight of 
veal, pork, and ham, chopped very fine, seasoned 
high, and boiled till tender in casings, and then fry 
them after they are dried. 

TO MAKE SAUSAGES. 

Take three j)Ounds of nice pork, fat and lean toge- 
ther, chop it as fine as possible, season it with a tea- 
spoonful of beaten pepper, two of salt, about three of 
sage made fine ; mix them well together ; have the 
casings very nicely cleaned, and fill them or put the 
meat down in a pot. Beef will make good sausages. 



COOKERY. Ill 

SAUSAGES. 

Twelve pounds of meat, seven pounds of fat from 
the back of the chine, five spoonsful of salt, six 
spoonsful of sage, two of thyme, three of pepper; 
put into casings, and place in large stone jars, and 
pour warm milk over, until the jars are full. 

OXFORD SAUSAGES. 

The following is the recipe for making the cele- 
brated Oxford sausages, so popular in England: — 
Ingredients — one pound and a half of pig-meat with- 
out any skin, and a half pound of veal. One pound 
and a half of beef-suet, the yolks and whites of five 
eggs; a dessert- spoonful of sifted sage, after being 
well dried. Pepper and salt to the taste. Chop 
the meat small, and then pound it together in a 
marble mortar, till it is short and tender. Chop the 
suet very fine, and when the eggs are well beaten 
together, after the white specks are taken out, pour 
the liquid over the pounded meat and chopped suet, 
well kneading together with a clean hand, throwing 
in the sifted sage, and pepper, and salt, during the 
operation, so as to let them impregnate the whole 
mass without being predominant in any part of it. 
Press the whole, when well mixed, into a wide- 
mouthed jar, and keep it from the air in a cool place. 
They may be made up into small balls, or put into 
casings nicely cleaned, when wanted for use. Use very 
little grease, or lard, in frying them, as they will be 
almost fat enough to fry of themselves. 



112 COOKERY. 

TO MAKE FORCE-MEAT BALLS. 

Force-meat balls are a great addition to all made- 
dishes. Made thus: — take three pounds of veal, 
and a pound of suet, cut line, and beat in a marble 
mortar ; have a few sweet herbs made fine, a little 
mace dried and beat fine, and a small nutmeg grated, 
a little lemon-peel cut very fine, a little pepper and 
salt, and the yolk of two eggs ; mix all these well 
together, then roll them in little round balls, and 
some in long balls ; roll them in flour, and fry them 
brown. 

RUMP OF BEEF. 

This is the most juicy of all the joints of the beef, 
but is more frequently stewed than roasted, as it is 
generally too large to serve wdiole ; cut as much from 
the chump end to roast as will make a nice dish. 
When boned, and rolled in the form of a fillet of 
veal, it will require more time to cook. 

A SPANISH STEAK. 

Take the tender-loin of beef, have onions cut fine, 
and put into a frying-pan with some boiling butter ; 
when quite soft, draw them to the back part of the 
pan, and having seasoned well the beef with pepper 
and salt, put it in the pan, and rather broil than fry 
it. "When done, put the onions over it, and as much 
boiling water as will make a gravy after stewing. 

STEAK WITH VEGETABLES. 

Cut the steak about two and a half inches thick, 
and longer; dredge it with flour, and fry it in butter 
a fine brown ; lay it in a stew^-pan, and pour boiling 



COOKERY. 113 

water into the frying-pan ; let it boil, and add it to 
the steak, which is rendered richer by this process. 
Slice in turnips, carrots, &ic. 

VEAL MINCED AVITH POTATOES, 

Chop some cold veal very fine ; add to it an equal 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes chopped fine ; also 
season with pepper and salt to the taste. Add to it 
veal-gravy or hot water to moisten it, and plenty of 
butter ; dredge a little flour over it, and put it in a 
stew-pan over a moderate fire ; cover it close for half 
an hour ; when thoroughly heated, it is done. 

BRISKET OF BEEF STEWED. 

Cut the meat into handsome cutlets, put a piece of 
butter or clean dripping into a frying-pan as soon as 
it is hot, fiour and fry to a light brown ; take it out, 
and if you have no gravy ready, put a pint of boiling 
water into the frying-pan, boil for a minute, and 
strain into a basin, while you make some thickening 
in the following manner: put about an ounce of 
butter in a stew-pan, as soon as it melts mix with it 
as much flour as will dry it up. Stir it over the fire 
for a few minutes, and gradually add to it the gravy 
you made in the stew-pan ; let them simmer together 
ten minutes ; season with pepper, salt, a little mace, 
and a wine-glass-full of mushroom-catsup or wine; 
strain it through a tamis on the meat, and stew very 
gently till the meat is thoroughly warmed. If you 
have any ready-boiled bacon, cut it in slices, and put 
it to warm with the meat. 
10* 



114 COOKERY. 



BOILED RUMP-STEAKS WITH ONION GRAVY. 

Peel and slice two large onions, put them into a 
quart stew-pan, with two table-spoonfuls of water; 
cover the stew-pan close, set it on a slow fire till the 
water has boiled away, and the onions are a little 
browned, then add half a pint of good broth, and 
boil the onions till quite tender; strain the broth 
from them, chop them very fine, and season with 
mushroom -catsup, pepper, and salt; put the onion 
into it, and let it boil gently for five minutes ; pour it 
into a dish and lay it over the steak. If, instead of 
broth you use good beef gravy, it will be improved. 
Stewed cucumbers are also a great addition. 

BRISKET OF BEEF. 

Take all the bones out of eight pounds of brisket 
of beef, make holes in it about an inch apart, fill first 
with fat bacon, second with parslej^, third with 
oysters, and so on until all are filled ; also add to the 
above, pepper, nutmeg, and cloves. "When com- 
pletely stufled, lay it in a pan, dredge it with flour, 
pour on it half a pint of water, and the same of broth. 
Bake it three hours, then skim ofi" the fat, put the 
meat into a dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish 
with pickles. Any piece of fresh meat may be 
dressed in this way, or baked before the fire in a 
Dutch oven, with onions, the meat being frequently 
rubbed over with oil. 

POTTED BEEF. 

Rub two pounds of lean beef with salt and salt- 
peter, and let it lie two days; then dry the meat, 



COOKERY. 115 

season it with black pepper, and put into a small pan 
with half a pound of butter; cover it with paste and 
bake slowly. 

BEEF A LA DAUBE. 

Lard well a round of beef, and put it in a stew-pan ; 
cut it in slices nearlj^ to the bone, have a few slices 
of bacon placed around and over the beef, with 
carrots and onions; season with pepper, salt, and 
thyme ; cover the whole w^ith water, and let it stew 
very slowly from four to six hours, then take out the 
round and let it cool. To make the jelly, take all 
the meat from the stew-pan, strain the broth through 
a sieve, skim the fat from the top very carefully, put 
it on the fire with a few grains of pepper, and let it 
simmer slowly. Beat the whites of four eggs in a 
cup of water, and stir them in ; let it remain on the 
fire simmering fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain the 
jelly, and when cool, garnish the meat with it. This 
dish should be prepared the day before it is used. , 

TOMATO BEEF. 

With eight or ten tomatoes, stew slowly three 
pounds of beef, cut in slices or slips ; add salt, a few 
cloves, and, just at taking up, a little butter. A gill 
of tomato-catsup and an onion may be added. 

FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. 

Lard a piece of lean beef with bacon, seasoned with 
pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a 
stew-pan, with a pint of broth or beef gravy, a glass 
of sherry, a bundle of parsley, and sweet-herbs, a 
clove of garlic, and a shalot or two. When the meat 
is tender, cover it closely ; skim the sauce, strain it 



116 COOKERY. 

and boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Then glaze the 
larded side, and serve the fricandeau with tomato 
sauce. 

TO PRESERVE FRESH MEAT. 

If fresh meat is rolled up in Indian meal, it will 
keep well for five days in the hottest weather. It 
should be laid down in pieces, the weight not exceed- 
ing three pounds, and each piece should be entirely 
covered with meal. 

TO KEEP FRESH MEAT IN SUMMER. 

Put the meat in a stone jar, and cover it with sour 
milk; and, by changing it once or twice, it will keep 
a week or longer. Before cooking, wash the milk 
from the meat, and lay it in soda-water a few minutes, 
to make it more tender. 

HASHED MEAT. 

Cut the meat into small pieces, trimming off all 
the sinews, skin, and gristle. Prepare the sauce to 
w^arm with the meat, and simmer gently till thoroughly 
warm. It should not boil, as the meat is thereby 
rendered tough and hard. The sauce may be made 
as follows : one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, one of 
tomato sauce, the same quantity of any other sauce ; 
black pepper, cayenne, salt, half a wine-glass of port- 
wine, and a couple of capsicums cut fine ; mix with 
the remains of the gravy of beef or mutton of the 
preceding day. If necessary to thicken, add a little 
flour from the dredger. 

A FINE HASH. 

Take any cold game or poultry that you have (you 
may mix several kinds together) ; some sausages of 



COOKERY. 117 

the best sort will be an improvement. Chop all 
together and mix with it bread crumbs, chopped 
onions and parsley, and the yolks of two or three 
hard-boiled eggs ; put it into a sauce-pan with a pro- 
portionate piece of butter rolled in flour, moisten it 
with broth, gravy, or warm water, and let it stew 
gently for half an hour. Cold veal or fresh pork 
may be hashed in the same manner. 

SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches are an elegant and convenient luncheon, 
if nicely prepared. The bread should be neatly cut 
with a sharp knife ; and whatever meat is used must 
be carefully trimmed from every bit of skin, gristle, &c. 

MINCED COLLOPS. 

Take beef and mince it very fine, to which add 
some salt and pepper. Put this in its raw state into 
small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. 
"When intended for nse, put the butter into a frying- 
pan, and slice in some onions and fry them. Add a 
little water to it, and then put in the minced meat. 
Stew it well for a few minutes, and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF FOWLS. 

Skin and cut up the fowls, and soak them two 
hours in cold water, to make them white. Drain 
them. Put into a stew-pan a large piece of butter, 
and a tablespoonful of flour. Stir them together till 
the butter has melted. Add salt, pepper, a grated 
nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet-herbs. Pour in half 
a pint of cream, put in the fowls and let them stew 
three quarters of an hour. Before you send them to 
the table, stir in the yolks of three beaten eggs, and 



118 COOKERY. 

the j nice of half a lemon. To keep the fricassee white, 
cover it (while stewing) with a sheet of buttered paper 
laid over the fowls. The lid of the stew-pan must be 
kept on tightly. 

A LEG OF MUTTON WITH OYSTERS. 

Rub a leg of mutton all over with salt, and put it 
on the spit to roast with a clear fire, basting it with 
its own gravy. When it is nearly done, take it up 
and with a sharp knife make incisions all over it, and 
stuff an oyster into every hole. Then put it again 
before the fire to finish roasting. Before you serve it 
up, skim the gravy well, and give it a boil with a 
glass of red wine. 

VENISON. 

Venison is said to be more easily digested than any 
other kind of meat. It is better kept a day or two 
after it is killed, before using. 

TO ROAST VENISON. 

Cover the fat parts with paper and a paste, made 
of flour and water, to prevent them from burning. 
Roast a haunch of 12 pounds about four hours. Baste 
it well, and serve with currant-jelly. 

VENISON STEAKS. 

Cut the steak into pieces the size you prefer, beat 
well with a steak-beater, then chop it, and fry with 
nice lard until done. Thicken the gravy, or sauce, 
with sweet milk, a little flour and butter, adding 
pepper to the taste. To be served hot. 



COOKERY. 119 



MOCK VENISON. 



Mutton is the best substitute for real venison. 
Hang up for several days a loin of fat mutton ; then 
bone it, and take off all the kidney fat, and the skin 
from the upper fat ; mix together two ounces of brown 
sugar, one ounce of pulverized black pepper, and 
two of allspice. Rub it well into the mutton, and 
let it remain in this mixture five days, turning and 
rubbing it daily. When it is to be roasted, wash off 
the spices. Serve it with made gravy and currant 
jelly. 

CALF'S HEAD. 

Take the half of one, with the skin on ; put it into 
a large stew-pan, with a knuckle of ham, and the usual 
accompaniments of onions, herbs, &c., and let them 
simmer, in as much water as will cover the whole, till 
the flesh may be separated from the bone with a spoon ; 
do this, and while hot cut it into as large-sized squares 
as the pieces will admit of. The trimming and half the 
liquor may be put by in a tureen ; to the remaining part 
add half a gill of wine, and reduce the whole of that, by 
quick boiling, till it is half consumed, when it should 
be poured over the large square pieces, in an earthen 
vessel, surrounded with mushrooms, white button 
onions, small pieces of pickled pork, and the tongue 
in slices. Simmer till the whole is fit to serve up. 
Some brown force-meat balls are a pretty addition. 
After this comes from the table, the remains should 
be cut up in small pieces, and mixed up with the 
trimmings and liquor; which, (with a little more 
wine) properly thickened, will make a very good 
mock-turtle soup for a future occasion. 



120 COOKERY. 

FRENCH CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take a large, cold, boiled fowl, and haviug removed 
the skin and fat, cut the flesh from the bones in very 
small shreds, not more than half an inch long, and 
mix with it an equal quantity of celery, cut in small 
pieces. The dressing should not be made until im- 
mediately before it goes to table. Have ready half a 
dozen or more hard-boiled eggs. Cut up the yolks 
on a plate, and with the back of a wooden spoon 
mash them to a paste, adding salt, mustard, cayenne, 
vinegar, and salad oil, to the taste. Mix all together, 
until it is a smooth paste. Lay the shred chicken in 
the middle of a flat dish. Then cover it thickly with 
the dressing, and mix it thoroughly. Garnish the 
top of the dish with white lettuce, chopped fine, and 
the whites of the eggs minced. 

TO BOIL A DUCK. 

Salt it two days. Boil half an hour; fill with 
wheat-bread, sage, onions, and butter, rubbed together, 
also, pepper and salt to the taste. Then return the 
duck to the pot, and boil until done. 

TO STEW A DUCK. 

Stuff" and half roast the duck, then put it into a 
stew-pan, with a shred onion, black pepper, sage, 
winter savory, marjorum chopped fine, and about a 
pint of beef gravy. Simmer about 20 minutes, then 
skim it and take out the herbs ; add a quart of green 
peas lightly boiled, and simmer half an hour longer; 
thicken with a little butter and flour, and serve the 
duck and peas in one dish. Cabbage boiled, shred 
and fried in butter, may also be stewed with duck 
instead of the peas. 



COOKERY. 121 



TO HASH A DUCK. 



Fry a chopped onion in a stew-pan with a little 
butter ; tliicken it with flour, then put the duck (cut 
up) into the sauce to warm, season it with pepper, 
salt, and a little soy or catsup, and the juice of half a 
lemon, with a little sugar. Serve in a deep dish, with 
toasted crackers or bread. 

SALINI, OR HOT DUCK SALAD. 

Cut oft' the fillets of roasted ducks into proper 
pieces; sprinkle over allspice and salt. Add a gill 
of olive oil, and a glass of claret, or the juice of two 
Seville oranges. Stir it well over the fire, and serve it. 

FISH. 

In choosing fresh fish, select only those that are 
thick and firm, with bright scales and stiff" fins ; the 
gills a very lively red, and the eyes full and promi- 
nent. In the summer as soon as they are brought 
home, clean and put them in ice, if you have it, until 
you are ready to cook them, and never attempt to 
keep fresh fish two days. Mackerel cannot be cooked 
too soon, as they spoil sooner than other fish. 

Oysters in the shell may be kept a week by the fol- 
lowing process : cover them with water and wash 
them clean with a birch broom. Then lay them with 
the concave part of the shell undermost, sprinkle 
each of them well with salt and Indian-meal, and fill 
up the tub with cold water. Repeat this every day ; 
first pouring off" the liquid of the day before. The 
tub must stand all the time in a cool cellar, and be 
covered well with a blanket, or something of the sort. 
If carefully attended to, oysters kept in this way will 
11 



122 C K E 11 Y . 

not only live, but fiitten. It is customary to eat fish 
only at the commencement of the dinner. Fish and 
soup are generally served up alone, before any of the 
other dishes appear, and with no vegetables but pota- 
toes. In England, and at some of the most fashion- 
able tables in America, bread only is eaten with fish. 
To this rule, salt cod is an exception. 

TO BOIL FRESH SALMON. 

Scale and clean the fish, handling it as little as 
possible, and cut it open no more than is abso- 
lutely necessary. Place it on the strainer of a large 
fish-kettle, and fill it up with cold water. Throw in 
a handful of salt. Let it boil slowly. The length of 
time depends on the size and weight of the fish. 
You may allow a quarter of an hour to each pound ; 
but experience alone can determine the exact time. 
It must, however, be thoroughly done, as nothing is 
more unpalatable than fish under-cooked. You may 
try it with a fork. Skim it well, or the color will be 
bad. 

The minute it is completely boiled, lift up the 
strainer and rest it across the top of the kettle, that 
the fish may drain, and then, if you cannot send it to 
table immediately, cover it with a napkin in several 
folds, to keep it firm by absorbing the moisture. 
Send it to table on a hot dish. Garnish with scraped 
horseradish and curled parsley. Have ready a small 
tureen of lobster sauce to accompany the salmon. 
Take what is left after dinner, and put it in a deep 
dish with a close cover. Having saved some of the 
water in which the fish was boiled, take a quart of it, 
and season it with half an ounce of whole pepper, 
and half an ounce of whole allspice, half a pint of the 



COOKERY. 123 

best vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil it, and, 
when cold, ponr it over the fish, and cover it closely 
again in a cold place, and it will keep a day or two, 
and may be eaten at breakfast or supper. If much 
of the salmon has been left, you must proportion a 
larger quantity of pickle. 

SALMON STEAKS. 

Split the salmon, and take out the bone as nicely 
as possible, without mangling the body. Then cut 
it into fillets or steaks, about an inch thick. Dry 
them lightly in a cloth, and dredge them with flour. 
Take care not to squeeze or press them. Have ready 
some clear bright coals, such as are fit for beef-steaks. 
Let the gridiron be clean and bright, and rub the 
bars with chalk to prevent the fish from sticking. 
Broil the slices thoroughly, turning them with steak 
tongs. Send them to table hot, wrapped in the folds 
of a napkin that has been heated. Serve with them 
anchovy or lobster sauce. Man}- epicures consider 
this the best way of cooking salmon. 

Another way is to take pieces of white paper and 
butter them well. Wrap in each a piece of salmon, 
securing the paper around them with a string or pins. 
Lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear 
but moderate fire till thoroughly done. Take oif the 
paper and send the cutlets to table hot, garnished 
with fried parsley. Serve up with them prawn or 
lobster sauce. 

TO BAKE FRESH SALMON WHOLE. 

Having cleaned a small salmon, season it with salt, 
pepper, and powdered mace, rubbed on it, both out- 
side and in. Skewer it with the tail turned around, 



124 COOKERY. 

and put to the mouth. Lay it on a stand or trivet in 
a deep dish or pan, and stick it over with bits of 
butter rolled in flour. Put into the oven, and baste 
it occasionally, while baking, with its own drippings. 
Garnish it with horseradish and sprigs of curled 
parsley, laid alternately round the edge of the dish, 
and send it to table with lobster-sauce. 

SALMON BAKED IN SLICES. 

Take out the bone and cut the flesh in slices- 
Season with cayenne and salt. Melt two ounces of 
butter, that has been rolled in flour, in half a pint of 
water, and mix with it two glasses of port-wine, two 
tablespoonfuls of catsup, and two anchovies. This 
allowance is for a small quantity of salmon. For a 
large dish, you must proportion the ingredients ac- 
cordingly. Let the anchovies remain in the dish till 
they are dissolved. Then strain it and pour it over 
the slices of salmon. Tie a sheet of buttered paper 
over the dish, and put into the oven. You may bake 
trout or carp in the same way. 

TO COOK COD-FISH. 

It is a little surprising that many a good house^vife 
is not aware that the dumb or dried cod-fish ought 
not to be boiled to have them tender. It operates as 
with an egg, an oyster, or a clam : the more you boil 
them, the harder they get. Over-night put the fish to 
soak in cold water. In the morning it may be removed 
into a kettle of fresh water, made warm, and set by 
the fire. Half an hour previous to its being dished 
up, it may be transferred to a kettle of fresh water, 
and simmered over the fire nearly to a boiling heat, 



COOKERY. 125 

but no higher. This management does not draw out, 
but revives and enlivens the nutritious substance in 
them and leaves the flesh tender and delicious. 

TO BOIL MACKEREL IN MARINADE. 

Take, with some weak broth, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, a bunch of sweet-herbs, a few small onions, 
a dozen cloves, and pepper and salt to the taste ; boil 
them together an hour, then boil the fish in this 
gravy. Take them out when ready ; strain the liquor 
and thicken it ; make it green ^\'ith chopped parsley, 
and serve with white gravy-sauce and hard-boiled eggs. 

TO BOIL FRESH MACKEREL. 

They should be carefully cleaned inside and out, 
then washed in vinegar and water, and left to dry 
before being put into the kettle. A handfal of salt 
should be put into the water, which should be cold, 
and only allowed to boil fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Use parsley and butter-sauce. 

TO BOIL STURGEON. 

Having cleaned the sturgeon well, boil the desired 
quantity in as much water as will just cover it, with two 
or three bits of lemon-peel, some wholepepper, a stick of 
horseradish, and a pint of vinegar to every half-gallon 
of water. "When done, garnish with fried oysters, 
sliced lemon, and horseradish. Serve with melted 
butter or anchovy-sauce. 

GARNISHES. 

Parsley is the most universal garnish to all kinds 
of cold meat, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, &c. Horse- 
radish is the garnish for roast-beef, and for fish in 
11 =■ 



126 COOKERY. 

general ; for the latter, slices of lemon are sometimes 
laid alternately with heaps of horse radish. 

Slices of lemon for boiled fowl, turkey, fish, roast 
veal, and calf's head. 

Carrot in slices for boiled beef, hot or cold. 

Barberries, fresh or preserved, for game. 

Eed beet-root, sliced, for cold meat, boiled beef, 
and salt fish. 

Fried smelts for turbot. 

Fried sausages, or force-meat balls, around turkey 
and other fowls. 

Lobster, coral, and parsley, around boiled fish. 

Fennel for mackerel and salmon, either fresh or 
pickled. 

Currant-jelly for game ; also for custard or bread- 
pudding. 

Mint, either with or without parsley, for roast lamb, 
either hot or cold. 

Pickled gherkins, capers, or onions, for boiled meat 
and stews. 



SOUPS. 

TURTLE-SOUP. 

When the turtle is ready for dressing, cut all the 
meat that is good for baking, and put it aside for that 
purpose ; then take the bones, fins, entrails, heart and 
liver, and put them on, with a piece of beef and a 
little salt, to stew. When about half done, season 
wdth black pepper, cayenne, mace, cloves, nutmeg, 
parsley, and onions chopped fine ; thicken with drop- 
dumplings, made by beating together a thick batter 
of cream, the yolk of eggs, and a little salt and flour. 



COOKERY. 12T 



MOCK-TURTLE-SOUP. 



Scald a calf's head with the skin on, and take off 
the horny part, which cut in two-inch square pieces ; 
clean and dry them well in a cloth, and put them in a 
stew-pan with four quarts of liquid, made as follows: 
Take six pounds of beef, a calf's foot, a shank of 
ham, an onion, a turnip, two carrots, a head of celery, 
some cloves and whole pepper, a bunch of sweet- 
herbs, and a little lemon. Put these into eight quarts 
of water, and stew them gentlj^, until the liquid is 
reduced one half; then strain off, and put it into the 
stew-pan with the horny parts of the calf's head ; add 
some maijoram, savory, thyme, parsley chopped fine, 
with some cloves and mace pounded, a little Cayenne 
pepper, some green onions, and half a pint of Sherry 
wine ; stew these gently, till the soup is reduced to 
two quarts ; then heat a little broth, mix some Hour, 
smoothing it with the yolks of two eggs, and stir it 
over a gentle fire until it is nearly boiling 

OYSTER-SOUP. 

Take a quart of oysters, drain them with a fork 
from their liquor, wash them in one water to free 
them from grit; cut, in small pieces, two slices of 
bacon ; strain the oyster-liquor; then put all together, 
adding some parsley, thyme, and onions ; season with 
pepper and salt ; let it boil slowly, and when almost 
done, add an ounce of butter rolled in flour, and a 
gill of good cream. It will take thirty minutes to 
cook. 



128 COOKERY. 

SOUP-MAIGRE. 

Take of veal, beef cut into small pieces, and a 
scrag of mutton, one pound each ; put into a sauce- 
pan, with two quarts of water ; put into a cloth one 
ounce of barley, an onion, a small bundle of sweet- 
herbs, three or four heads of celery, cut small, a little 
mace and cloves, three turnips pared and halved, a 
large carrot cut in small pieces, and a nice bunch of 
lettuce ; cover the pot close, and let it stew five hours ; 
then take out the spice and sweet-herbs, and serve 
soup. 

ANOTHER OYSTER-SOUP. 

Take two quarts of oysters ; drain them ; have 
ready a dozen eggs boiled hard ; cut them in pieces, 
and pound them in a mortar alternately with the oys- 
ters. Boil the liquor of the oysters with a head of 
celery cut small, two grated nutmegs, a teaspoonful 
of mace, and a teaspoonful of cloves, with two tea- 
spoonsful of salt, and a teaspoonful of whole pepper. 
When the liquor has boiled, stir in the oysters and 
pounded eggs, a little at a time. Give it one more 
boil, and then serve it up. Salt oysters will not do 
for soup. 

BEEF-SOUP. 

A piece of beef, with a handful of rice, and just 
enough water to cover. Stew four hours over a mo- 
derate fire. An hour before it is done, add two or 
three common-sized onions, ten or twelve common 
potatoes, (and carrots, if desired,) salt to season, and 
a half tea-spoonful of pepper. Stir up two or three 
eggs with milk and flour, and drop in with a spoon; 
but sliced bread broken in the tureen is still better. 



COOKERY. 129 



BEEF SOUP. 



The best soup is made of the lean of fine fresh beef. 
The proportion is four pounds of meat to a gallon of 
water. It should boil at least six hours. Mutton 
soup may be made in the same manner. Put the 
meat into cold water, with a little salt ; set it over a 
good fire ; let it boil slowly, but constantly, and skim 
it well. When no more fat rises to the top, put in 
what quantity you please of carrots, turnips, leeks, 
celery, and parsley, all cut into small pieces ; add a 
few cloves. Grate a large, red carrot, and strew it 
over the top ; and continue to boil it gently, but 
steadily, till dinner-time. Wext to the quantity and 
quality of the meat, nothing is more necessary to the 
excellence of soup than to keep the fire moderate, and 
to see that it is boiling all the time, but not too fast. 
Have ready in the tureen some toasted bread, cut into 
small squares ; pour the soup over the bread, passing 
it through a sieve, so as to strain it thoroughly. Some, 
however, prefer serving it up with all the vegetables 
in it. The soup will be improved by boiling in it the 
remains of a piece of cold roast beef. 

BEEF-GRAVY SOUP. 

Cut slices of lean beef, according to the quantity 
wanted, which place in a stew-pan upon sliced onions 
and roots, adding two spoonsful of rich broth. Soak 
this on a slow fire for half an hour, stirring it well. 
When it is sufliciently brown, add more broth, well 
seasoned with sweet-herbs. 



130 COOKERY. 

A CHEAP RICE AND MEAT SOUP. 

Put a pound of rice, and a little pepper, and broth 
herbs, into two quarts of water, cover them close and 
simmer very gently ; put in a little cinnamon, two 
pounds of good ox-cheek, and boil the whole till the 
strength is incorporated into the liquor. 

ANOTHER, CHEAP SOUP. 

Take an ox-cheek, two pecks of potatoes, a quarter 
of a peck of onions, three-quarters of a pound of 
salt, and an ounce and a half of pepper — to be boiled 
in ninety pints of water, on a slow fire, until reduced 
to sixty. A pint of this soup, with a small piece of 
meat, is a good meal for a hearty working man: some 
of every vegetable, with a few herbs, may be added. 

HERRING SOUP. 

Take eight gallons of water, and mix with five 
pounds of barley-meal. Boil it to the consistence of 
a thick jelly; season with salt, pepper, vinegar, sweet- 
herbs, and add the meat of four red herrings pounded. 

VEAL-GRAVY SOUP. 

Garnish the bottom of a stew-pan with thin pieces 
of lard, then a few slices of ham, slices of veal cutlet, 
sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, celery, a few cloves 
upon the meat, and a spoonful of broth ; soak it on 
the fire in this manner, till the veal throws out its 
juice ; then put it on a stronger fire, till the meat 
catches to the bottom of the pan, and is brought to a 
proper color ; then add a suflicient quantity of light 
broth, some herbs, and simmer till done. 



COOKERY. 131 

HODGE-PODGE SOUP. 

Take either brisket of beef, mutton, steaks, whole 
pigeons, rabbits cut in quarters, veal or poultry, and 
boil some time over a slow fire, in water enough to 
cover it very well. Add some onions, carrots, parsley, 
parsnips, turnips, green shallots, one clove of garlic, 
some allspice, thyme, and basil. When done, drain 
the meat, place it upon a dish, sift and skim the sauce, 
reduce some of it to a glaze if desired ; glaze the 
meat with it, then add some gravy in the same stew- 
pan, and broth enough to make sufficient sauce, with 
pepper and salt ; sift it through a sieve, and serve on 
the meat. If brisket of beef is used, let it be half 
done before putting in the roots, which should be 
scalded first, as the broth is made more palatable 
thereby. 

PORTABLE SOUP. 

Cut into small pieces three large legs of veal, one 
of beef, and the lean part of a ham ; lay the meat in 
a large cauldron, with a quarter of a pound of butter 
at the bottom; four ounces of anchovies, and two 
ounces of mace. Cut small six heads of clean washed 
celery, freed from green leaves, and put them into the 
cauldron with five large carrots cut fine. Cover all 
close, and set it on a moderate fire. When the gravy 
begins to draw, keep taking it off until it is all ex- 
tracted, then cover the meat with water, let it boil 
gently four hours, then strain it through a hair sieve 
into a clean pan, till it is reduced to one-third ; strain 
the gravy, drawn from the meat, into a pan, and let it 
boil gently until it is of a glutinous consistence ; season 
with cayenne, and pour it an inch thick in dishes, 
and dry in the sun. Put them up in tight boxes. 



132 COOKERY. 

You can make a good broth, by adding some of these 
cakes to boiling water, or it makes nice sauce for 
fowls. 

SOUP, FLEMISH FASHION. 

Scald a half-dozen turkey pinions, a quarter of 
mutton, and a half-pound of pickled pork ; put them 
all together into a pan, with good broth, a bundle of 
sweet-herbs, a few cloves, pepper, and salt. 

MULLAGA-TAAVNT SOUP. 

Cut four pounds of a breast of veal into pieces 
about two inches by one ; put the trimmings into a 
stew-pan with two quarts of water ; add twelve corns 
each of black pepper and allspice. When it boils, 
skim it well, and let it continue to boil an hour and 
a half, then strain it off while it is boiling. Fry the 
bits of veal and four onions in butter, to a nice brown ; 
when these are done, put the broth with them, and 
put on the fire ; when it boils, skim it well ; let it 
simmer half an hour, then mix two spoonfuls each of 
curry and flour, with a little cold water, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt; add these to the soup, and simmer 
until the veal is quite tender. Or bone a couple of 
fowls or rabbits, and stew them in the manner 
directed above for the veal; and you may add a 
bruised onion, and some mace and ginger, instead 
of pepper and allspice. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP, 

Put a small broiled bone, one and a half pints of 
peas, and water in proportion, a root of celery, a 
small bunch of sweet-herbs, a large onion, cayenne 
pepper, and salt to the taste. Boil briskly for five 



COOKERY. 133 

hours ; strain and pulp ; then add a little spinach 
juice and asparagus boiled, and cut into small pieces. 
A teaspoonful each of walnut soy and mushroom- 
catsup answers as well as the bone. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Take four pounds of beef, two of scrag of mutton, 
and two of scrag of veal ; boil them in two gallons 
of water ; stew gently until it begins to taste well ; 
then pour it out, and let it stand till cold, and skim 
off the fat. Take the giblets of two fowls, well 
prepared, put them to the broth, and simmer till very 
tender. Take them out and strain the soup through 
a cloth. Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into 
the stew-pan, with some fine chopped parsley, chivis, 
a little pennyroyal, and sweet-maijoram. Place the 
soup over a slow fire ; put in the giblets, fried butter, 
herbs, a little Sherry wine, some salt, and caj-enne 
pepper; when the herbs are tender, send the soup and 
giblets intermixed to the table. This forms a very 
savory dish. 

A POOR MAN'S SOUP. 

Mince a handful of parsley-leaves fine, and strew 
over a little salt; shred six green onions, and put 
them with the parsley in a sauce-pan ; add three 
tablespoonfuls of oil and vinegar, with some pepper 
and salt. Pour over it a nice beef broth, and it is 
ready to serve. 

PEA- so UP. 

Take two quarts of dried or split peas the evening 
before you intend to make the soup, and let them 
soak in luke-warm water all night. In the morning 
put the peas in the pot, with three quarts of cold 



134 COOKERY. 

water, a pound of bacon, and a pound of lean, fresh 
beef. Cut up two carrots, two onions, and two heads 
of celery, and put them in the soup, with a bunch of 
sweet-herbs and three or four cloves. Boil it slowly 
five or six hours, till the peas can be no longer dis- 
tinguished; then strain it, and serve. 

GREEN PEA-SOUP. 

Make a good beef-soup with the proportion of four 
pounds of lean beef to a gallon of water. Boil it 
slowly, and skim it well. In another pot boil two 
quarts of green peas, with a little salt, and three or 
four lumps of sugar. "When they are quite soft, take 
them out, drain the water off, and mash them in a 
colander till all the pulp drips through. Then stir it 
into the soup, after jon have strained it. Prepare 
some toasted bread, cut in small squares ; lay in a 
tureen, and pour the soup over. When you toast 
bread for soups, etc., always cut off the crust. 

TO MAKE CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Take a calf's head, part of the liver and lights, boil 
them in six quarts of water, until you can take the 
bones out ; put it on a dish, season it with pepper, 
salt, sw^eet-marjoram, thyme, sage, mace, and cloves ; 
skim the water, if there be any fat on it ; then put it 
all back in the same water that it was boiled in, and 
let it boil till done. Just before you take it up, put a 
glass of wine in it, with a little burnt sugar ; thicken 
it with a little butter and ilour. 

If you wish to make a great deal of soup, add a 
knuckle of veal, as the head only will not make it 
rich enough. If you wish to make the dish without 
soup, boil the head in the same way, and season it in 



COOKERY. 135 

the same manner in the dish, with a little of the 
water it was boiled in ; thicken it a little with butter 
and flour : put it in the oven till you think it is done. 

OKRA SOUP. 

The pods are of a proper size when two or three 
inches long, but may be used while they remain 
tender ; if fit for use, they will snap asunder at the 
ends, but if they merely bend, they are too old, and 
must be rejected; for a few of such pods will spoil a 
dish of soup. 

Take one peck, cut them across into very thin 
slices, not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in thick- 
ness, but as much thinner as possible, as the operation 
is accelerated by their thinness ; to this quantity of 
okra add about one-third of a peck of tomatoes, which 
are first pealed and cut into pieces. This quantity 
can be either increased or diminished, as may suit 
the taste of those for whom it is intended. A coarse 
piece of beef (a shin is generally made use of) is 
placed in a digester, with about two and a half 
gallons of water, and a very small quantity of salt. 
It is permitted to boil for a few moments, when 
the scum is taken oiF, and the okra and tomatoes 
thrown in. 

These are all the ingredients absolutely necessary, 
and the soup thus made is remarkably fine. We, how- 
ever, usually add some corn cut off from the tender 
roasting ears : the grains from three ears will be 
enough for the above quantity : we sometimes take 
about half a pint of Lima beans. Both of these 
improve the soup, but not so much as to make them 
indispensable ; so far from it, that few add them. 
The most material thing to be attended to is the 



136 COOKERY. 

boiling, and the excellence of the soup depends 
almost entirely on this being faithfully done : for, if 
it be not boiled enough, however well the ingredients 
may have been selected, the soup will be very in- 
ferior, and give little idea of the delightful flavor it 
possesses when properly done. I have already 
directed that the ingredients be placed in a digester. 
This is decidedly the best vessel for boiling this, or 
any other soup in, but should there be no digester, 
then an earthen pot should be prepared ; but on no 
account make use of an iron one, as it would turn 
the whole soup of a black color; the proper color 
being green, colored with the rich yellow of the 
tomatoes. 

The time which is usually occupied in boiling okra 
soup is five hours. We put it on at 9 A. M., and 
take it off about 2 P. M., during the whole of which 
time it is kept boiling briskly ; the cook at the same 
time stirring it frequently, and mashing the difterent 
ingredients. By the time it is taken ottj it will be 
reduced to about one half; but as on the operation of 
the boiling being well and faithfully executed depends 
its excellence, I will state the criterion by which 
this is judged of: — the meat separates entirely from 
the bone, being done to rags, the whole appears as 
one homogeneous mass, in which none of the in- 
gredients are seen distinct, the objeet of this long 
boiling being thus to incorporate them. Its con- 
sistence should be about that of thick porridge. 



COOKERY. 137 



PICKLES AND SAUCES. 

TO PICKLE OYSTERS. 

Put the oysters on the fire, and let them simmer 
till the gills begin to shrivel, then take them up and 
wipe them carefully in a towel ; strain the liquor, and 
put it on to boil, with a little salt, whole pepper, and 
mace ; when well boiled, to a quart of liquor add one 
half- pint of Sherry wine, and the same quantity of 
good vinegar; the liquor must be nearly cold before 
it is poured on the oysters. 

TO PICKLE WALNUTS. 

Scald slightly, and rub off the first skin of one 
hundred walnuts, before they have a hard shell. This 
may be easily ascertained by trying them with a pin. 
Put them in a strong cold brine, put new brine the 
third and sixth days, and take them out and dry them 
on the ninth. Take an ounce of each — of long pep- 
per-pods, black pepper, ginger, and allspice, a quarter 
of an ounce of cloves, some blades of mace, and a 
table-spoonful of white mustard-seed; bruise the whole 
together. Put into a jar a layer of walnuts, strew 
them well over with the mixture, and proceed in the 
same manner till all are covered ; then boil three 
quarts of good vinegar with sliced horseradish and 
ginger, pour it hot over, which may be repeated for 
three or four days, always keeping the pickles closely 
covered ; add at the last boiling a few cloves of garlic, 
or shalots. In five months, they will be fit for use. 
12* 



138 COOKERY, 



TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS AND GHERKINS. 

Select a sufficient quantity of small, though not too 
young cucumbers. Put them in a stone pot, and pour 
over them a strong brine ; to this add a small bit of 
alum, to secure the color. Let them stand a week; 
then exchange the brine for clear water, in which they 
must remain two or three days. Boil the best northern 
cider-vinegar, and, when nearly cool, pour it over the 
cucumbers, having previously turned off" the water. 
Prepared in this manner, with the addition of cloves, 
allspice, mustard, and cinnamon, boiled in the vine- 
gar, pickles of every kind will keep for a year. In 
pickling cauliflowers, tomatoes, and other vegetables 
which easily absorb the vinegar — the spiced vinegar 
should be added when cold. 

ANOTHER. 

To each hundred of cucumbers put a pint of salt, 
and pour on boiling water sufficient to cover the 
whole ; cover them tight to prevent the steam from 
escaping, and in this condition let them stand for 
twenty-four hours : they are then to be taken out ; 
and after being wiped perfectly dry, care being taken 
that the skin is not broken, place them in the jar in 
which they are to be kept. Boiling vinegar (if spice 
be used, it should be boiled with the vinegar) is then 
to be put to them, the jar closed tight ; and in a fort- 
night delicious pickles are produced, as green as when 
they were on the vines. 



COOKERY. 139 



TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS, SMALL MELONS, AND BEANS. 

After gathering the vegetables above-named, put 
them in very strong brine, which make scalding hot, 
and pour again over the cucumbers, &c., every morn- 
ing, for ten days ; afterwards, boil and pour over every 
two or three weeks. To prepare them for use, soak 
the salt out in clear water, changing it every day, 
until they are sufficiently fresh ; then put the vegeta- 
bles in an iron vessel with cold vinegar ; let them re- 
main on the fire until they are near boiling ; then take 
the vegetables out of that vinegar ; have other cold 
vinegar in the vessel they are to remain in ; add 
cloves, mace, ginger, allspice, horseradish, and a 
table-spoonful of olive-oil, mustard -seed, and green 
pepper pods. One pound of good brown sugar to 
each gallon of vinegar. 

TO PICKLE SOUR-KROUT. 

Chop the heads of large cabbages very fine, and 
strew it in layers in a barrel, with alternately a hand- 
ful of salt, mixed with a few caraway-seeds, till the 
barrel is filled. A heavy weight is next to be placed 
on the mass, and a fermentation soon commences. 
After this has subsided, the weight is removed, and 
the barrel is headed for use. This preparation is 
highly relished by those accustomed to it, when boiled 
with beef or pork. 

TO PICKLE CABBAGE. 

Slice the cabbage crosswise; put it on an earthen 
dish, and sprinkle a handful of salt over it; cover it 
with another dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours; 
put it in a colander to drain, and lay it in ajar; take 



140 COOKERY. 

white-wine vinegar enougli to cover it, a little cloves, 
mace, and allspice ; put them in whole ; boil it up, 
and put it over, hot or cold, which you like best, and 
cover it close with a cloth. Then tie it over with 
leather. 

ANOTHER. 

Select the best heads of cabbage, quarter them, 
sprinkle a good deal of salt on them, and let them 
remain about five days. To a gallon of vinegar, add 
an ounce each of mace, allspice, and cloves. Pour 
the vinegar, boiling hot, on the cabbage, and repeat 
the boiling and turning it on the cabbage several 
times, at intervals of two or three days, for two 
weeks. 

TO PICKLE HORSERADISH. 

Wash and peel your horseradish, then grate it, add 
vinegar enough to make it of a proper consistency, 
and sugar to the taste. 

TO MAKE MANGOES. 
Gather melons when half grown, or smaller. After 
cutting out a slice large enough to enable you to take 
out the seeds, &c., put the melons in brine, and scald 
as above directed. Use for pickles small cucumbers, 
beans, green tomatoes, small onions, &c. When all 
have been prepared, for the cold vinegar, open your 
melons, fill them with the cucumbers, beans, tomatoes, 
&,c. Season with spices, to the taste. Horseradish 
and mustard are a great addition. When your melon 
is full, replace the slice you took out, and confine it 
by taking a few stitches, which you can easily do. 
Kemove when you wish to put it on the table. 



COOKERY. 141 



CUCUMBERS, BEANS, RADISH PODS, NASTURTIONS, GHER- 
KINS, AND ONIONS. 

Put them in strong boiling brine, reboiling and 
pouring it over the vegetables every three weeks, 
until you wish to prepare them for use. Then soak 
out the salt in clear water, changing it frequently. 
Then pour on them boiling vinegar, spiced with mace, 
allspice, ginger, cloves, and sugar, half a pint to a 
gallon of vinegar. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Wash the beets, and be careful not to break any 
of the roots, then boil in plenty of water, about three 
hours. Take them up without sticking with a fork. 
After they have cooled sufficiently, cut them up and 
pour good vinegar over them. Exclude the air, and 
they will keep well several months. It will improve 
them to boil the vinegar occasionally, and pour it hot 
over the beets. 

TO PICKLE GHERKINS. 

Take five hundred gherkins, and have ready a large 
earthen pan of spring-water and salt ; to every gallon 
of water add two pounds of salt ; mix it well together, 
and throw in your gherkins ; wash them out in two 
hours, and put them to drain ; let them drain very 
dry, and put them in a jar; take a gallon of good 
vinegar, and put into a bell-metal kettle, and add half 
an ounce of cloves and mace, an ounce of allspice, one 
ounce of white mustard-seed, a stick of horseradish 
cut into slices, six bay leaves, two or three races of 
ginger cut fine, a nutmeg cut fine, and a handful of 
salt ; boil it up in the kettle all together, and put it 
over the gherkins; cover them close down, and let 



142 COOKERY. 

them stand twenty-four hours, then put them in your 
kettle and simmer over the fire till they are green. Be 
careful not to let them boil — if you do, it will spoil 
them ; then put them in your jar, and cover them 
down close till cold ; then tie them over with a blad- 
der, and a leather over that ; put them in a cold, dry 
place. Always keep your pickles tied down close, 
and take them out with a wooden spoon. 

TO PICKLE GRAPES. 

Take grapes at the full growth, but not ripe ; cut 
them in small bunches, put them in a stone jar, with 
vine-leaves between every layer of grapes ; then take 
as much spring-water as you think will cover them, 
put in a pound of bay salt, and as much white salt 
as will make it bear an egg ; dry your bay salt and 
pound it, it will melt the sooner; put it into a copper 
or bell-metal kettle, boil it, and skim well as it boils; 
take all the black scum oiF, but not the white scum : 
when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, let it stand 
to cool and settle ; when it is almost cold, pour the 
clear liquor on the grapes, lay vine-leaves on the top, 
tie them down close with a linen cloth, cover them 
over with another, let them be dried between the 
cloths; then take two quarts of vinegar, one quart of 
spring-water, and one pound of sugar, let it boil a 
little while, skim it as it boils, very clean, let it stand 
till it is quite cold, dry your jar with a cloth, put fresh 
vine-leaves at the bottom, and between ever}^ layer 
of grapes, and on the top; then pour the clear pickle 
on the grapes, fill your jar that the pickle may be 
above the grapes. Tie a thin piece of board in a 
piece of flannel, lay it on the top of the jar to keep 
the grapes under the pickle ; tie them up with a blad- 
der, and then a leather. 



COOKERY. 143 



TO PICKLE PEACHES. 



Take your peaches when they are at their full 
growth, just before they begin to turn ripe; be sure 
they are not bruised ; then take spring-water as much 
as you think will cover them, make it salt enough to 
bear an egg, then put in your peaches, and lay a thin 
board over them, to keep them under the water ; let 
them stand three days, and then take them out and 
wipe them very carefully with a fine soft cloth, and 
lay them in your glass jar ; then take as much good 
vinegar as will fill the jar; to every gallon put two 
or three heads of garlic, a good deal of ginger cut 
fine, half an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmeg; 
mix your pickle well together, and pour over your 
peaches : tie them close with a bladder and leather, 
and they will be fit for use in three months. You 
may pickle nectarines and apricots the same way. 

TO PICKLE PEACHES. 

Select the white solid or clingstone peach. Put 
them in brine, and let them remain in it as long as 
you wish. Boil it occasionally, and pour over the 
fruit. When you wish to prepare the pickles for use, 
soak out the salt in clear water. Then boil your 
vinegar, adding spices, and sugar, to the taste. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Put peaches in strong brine for twelve hours, wipe 
them dry ; to each gallon of vinegar, add three pounds 
of light-brown sugar, three table-spoonsful of ginger, 
three of spice, and one of cloves. Boil the vinegar 
and pour over the peaches ; the next day boil again, 



14:4 COOKERY. 

and the pickles will be ready for use. Put them up 
in small jars, that they may not be long exposed to 
the air after being opened. Seal the jars tightly. 

TO PICKLE TOMATOES. 

Gather the tomatoes when they are turning to be 
ripe. Put them in layers in a jar, with garlic, mus- 
tard-seed, horseradish, spices as you like, filling up 
the jar, occasionally putting a little fine salt propor- 
tionably to the quantity laid down, and which is in- 
tended to preserve the tomatoes. When the jar is 
full, pour on cold, good cider vinegar till all is covered ; 
then cork up tight. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over a bushel of tomatoes and 
skin them; then boil them well, after which add a 
table-spoonful each of ca3'enne and black pepper; a 
tea-spoonful of salt ; half an ounce of cloves ; one 
ounce of mace ; mix well, and put the tomatoes in 
jars, and pour a coating of" suet over them, and tie 
buckskin over the tops. Prepared in this way, they 
will keep a year. 

TOMATOES. 

Prick the skins of ripe tomatoes; spread them in 
layers, and on each layer put pounded mace, cloves, 
and allspice. Pour vinegar over the whole. The 
vinegar from tomatoes thus prepared, is a very nice 
sauce. 



COOKERY. 145 



HIGDION PICKLE, 

Equal parts of green tomatoes and cabbage chopped 
fine ; add onions one quarter the quantity of the 
above ; put all together in a jar ; sprinkle salt lightly 
over each layer ; let it remain twenty-four hours, then 
press it in a towel so as to extract all of the juice; 
put it back in the jar, and cover it with cold vinegar. 
Let it remain two or three days ; drain the vinegar 
ofi^, and season the mixture. To each gallon put one 
tablespoonful of ground mustard, one tablespoonful 
of black pepper, one of spice, and mace. Add four 
ounces of white mustard-seed ; mix it thoroughly ; 
put it back in the jar, and add cold vinegar; exclude 
the air as much as possible. 

ADDS JAR PICKLE. 

Pack the vegetables or fruit — such as cabbage, 
peaches, or any kind of white pickle — in dry salt, 
and let them remain three or four days ; then take 
them out (leaving the salt sticking on,) and place in 
the sun till perfectly dry ; then wash off the salt with 
vinegar and water, and freshen them in cold water. 
Prepare the vinegar by adding to each gallon a 
quarter of a pound each of black pepper and black 
mustard-seed, one ounce each of turmeric and mace, 
three ounces of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
ground mustard, three cloves of garlic, some horse- 
radish, and a few onions. Place the pickle in this 
vinegar; make the jar air-tight, and set it in the sun 
for two or three weeks. This pickle is very nice 
indeed. 
13 



146, COOKERY. 



BEAN SALAD. 

Take young tender beans, string, and boil them 
soft ; drain the water off, and while hot, put vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and a small onion sliced fine over them. 

MUSTARD FOR THE TABLE. 

Mix eight spoonfuls of flour of mustard with two 
of salt, and nine of water. Mix to a smooth paste ; 
add six spoonfuls more of water, and mix again. 

LEMON PICKLE. 

Slice six lemons ; rub them with salt ; lay them in 
a stone jar, with two ounces each of allspice and 
white pepper, and one-fourth ounce each of mace, 
cloves, and cayenne, and two ounces each of horse- 
radish and mustard-seed. Pour over them two quarts 
of hot distilled vinegar ; and after standing for a few 
days, strain. Some add- garlic or shallots. 

SPICED VINEGAR, FOR PICKLES GENERALLY. 

Bruise in a mortar two ounces of black pepper, one 
ounce of ginger, a half ounce of allspice, and one 
ounce of salt. If a hotter pickle is desired, add a 
half drachm of cayenne, or a few capsicums. For 
walnuts, add also one ounce of shallots. Put these 
into a stone jar, with a quart of vinegar, and cover 
them with a bladder wetted with the pickle, and over 
this, a piece of leather. Set the jar on a trivet near 
the fire for three days, shaking it three times a day, 
then pour the mixture on the walnuts or other 
vegetables. For walnuts, it is used hot, but for 



COOKERY. 147 

cabbage, &c., cold ; but to save time, it is usual to 
simmer the vinegar gently with the spices, which is 
best done in an enameled sauce-pan. 

CRESS OR CELERY VINEGAR. 

Pour a quart of the best vinegar over an ounce of 
cress or celery seeds, dried and pounded. Let them 
steep ten days ; shake every day ; then strain and 
bottle in small bottles. 

HORSERADISH VINEGAR. 

Pour a quart of best vinegar on three ounces of 
scraped horseradish, one drachm of cayenne, and an 
ounce of shred eschalot ; let it stand a week. This 
is very cheap, and you have an excellent relish for 
cold beef, salads, &c. Horseradish is in perfection in 
November. 

GARLIC AND ONION VINEGAR. 

Chop two ounces of the root, put it in a bottle, 
pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and shake it 
well every day for ten days ; then pour off the clear 
liquor into half- pint bottles. A few drops of the 
garlic will flavor a pint of gravy, as it is very powerful. 

GREEN MINT VINEGAR. 

Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the leaves ; pour 
wine or vinegar over them, and let them steep ten 
days ; strain, bottle, and cork tightly. Basil vinegar 
may be made in the same way. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Grate the cucumbers, and squeeze or press out the 
juice. Measure it, and put as much vinegar to the 



148 COOKERY. 

grated cucumbers as you extract juice. Season with 
pepper and salt. Bottle and cork tightly, and it will 
keep well for years. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Boil your tomatoes until they are quite soft, then 
press them through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp 
of the tomatoes, and to every quart allow a spoonful 
of salt ; boil it an hour after the salt is in. Have 
ready in equal proportions, a mixture of powdered 
ginger, nutmeg, and cloves ; add to every quart of 
the liquid a spoonful of the mixed spices, and a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne. After stirring in the seasoning, 
boil the catsup several hours, or until it is as thick as 
you wish it. Strain it carefully into a pitcher, avoid- 
ing the sediment of the spices ; then while hot, pour 
it through a flannel bag into clean bottles. Cork 
them tightly, and seal the corks. Keep it in a dry, 
cool place : it will be of a fine scarlet color, and keep 
any length of time. 

PEPPER CATSUP. 

Take fifty pods of large red bell pepper-seed, and 
add to them a quart of vinegar. Boil them until you 
can mash out the pulp through a sieve. Season with 
cloves, mace, spice, onions, salt, and two spoonfuls 
of sugar ; then boil to the proper consistency. 

PEPPER CATSUP AND MEAT DRESSING. 

Nearly fill a stone jar with fresh pepper pods ; pour 
on water enough to cover well, and boil until the 
mass is soft enouo-h to run throuo:h a sieve or 
colander; add enough good vinegar to make it of 
the consistency of catsup. After you put in the 



COOKERY. 149 

vinegar, boil together fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Fill small bottles, cork tight, and set away in a cool 
place. This catsup is very strong and pungent, and 
a little of it adds a peculiar relish to cold meats, &c. 

COMMON SAUCE. 

Soak slices of veal, ham, onions, parsnips, two cloves 
of garlic, two heads of cloves ; then add broth, a glass 
of white wine, and two slices of lemon; simmer over 
a slow fire, skim well, and sift. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Put a bit of butter with two sliced onions, into a 
stew-pan, with a carrot, a parsnip, a little thyme, 
basil cloves, two shallots, a clove of garlic, and some 
parsley ; turn the whole over the fire until well colored ; 
then shake in some flour, and moisten it with some 
broth and a spoonful of vinegar. Let it boil over a 
slow fire ; skim and strain it througli a sieve ; season 
with salt and pepper, and use with any dish requiring 
to be highly seasoned. 

SAUCE FOR VEAL. 

Take the bones of cold roasted or boiled veal, 
dredge them well with flour, and put them into a 
stew-pan, with a pint and a half of broth or w^ater, a 
small onion, a little grated lemon-peel, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a little pounded mace. To 
thicken it, rub a table-spoonful of flour into half an 
ounce of butter ; stir it into the broth, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil gently for about half an hour; 
strain through a sieve, and it is ready to put to the 
veal to warm up, which is to be done by placing the 
13* 



150 COOKERY. 

stew-pan by the side of the fire. Squeeze in half a 
lemon, and cover the bottom of the dish with toasted 
bread cut into triangles, and garnish with slices of 
ham. 

KITCHENER'S (Dr.) SUPERLATIVE SAUCE. 
Claret or port wine, and mushroom catsup, a pint 
of each ; half a pint of walnut or other pickle liquor ; 
pounded anchovies, four ounces ; fresh lemon-peel, 
pared very thin, an ounce ; peeled and sliced shallots, 
the same ; scraped horseradish, ditto ; allspice and 
black pepper, powdered, half an ounce each ; cayenne, 
one drachm ; celery-seed, bruised, the same ; all avoir- 
dupoise weight. Put these into a wide-mouthed bot- 
tle, stop it close, shake it up every day for a fortnight, 
and then strain it, and bottle again. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Take four ounces of grated stale bread; pour over 
it sufficient milk to cover it, and let it soak about 
three quarters of an hour ; then add a dozen grains 
of black pepper, a little salt, and a small piece of 
butter; put on a little more milk, and give it a boil; 
eat it with roast wild-fowl or roast pig. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Melt over the fire a quarter of a pound of butter; 
throw in a large spoonful of flour, and add half a pint 
of boiling water and a little salt ; boil a few minutes, 
and then put in a tea-spoonful of cold water. If in- 
tended as sauce for pudding, stir in a glass of white 
wine and half a grated nutmeg. 



COOKERY. 151 

CELERY SAUCE FOR ROASTED OR BOILED FOWLS. 

Take a large bunch of celerj^ wash it clean, cut it 
fine, and boil it slowly in a little water till it is ten- 
der; then add a little beaten mace, some nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt, thickened with a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. Then boil it up, and pour it in your 
dish. You may add half a pint of cream, and a glass 
of white wine. 

TOMATO-SAUCE, NO. T. 

Gather your tomatoes when fully ripe ; after wash- 
ing, mash them in a suitable vessel ; then place them 
in a kettle over a moderate fire, and when just warmed, 
press a colander down upon them, and dip from the 
colander all the watery juice. After boiling a short 
time, strain the mass through a wire-sieve, just fine 
enough to retain the rinds of the fruit ; then return 
it to the kettle, and boil it to the desired consistency. 
Just before taking it up, add sugar and spices to the 
taste. Heat the bottles you intend to use, in a steamer 
to boiling heat, and while they retain this heat, fill 
them with the sauce in a boiling state ; then cork im- 
mediately with good corks, and place them where 
they will cool slowly. Tomatoes thus prepared, will 
keep good, and retain all their original flavor, until 
their season comes around again. 

TOMATO-SAUCE, NO. II. 

Scald and peel your tomatoes. To each pound, 
allow a pound of brown sugar, and spices to flavor 
highly, allspice, cloves, mace, ginger, &c. Simmer 
all together until the tomatoes are done, but do not 



152 COOKERY. 

allow them to break. Take them up, and to every 
pound of tomatoes allow a pint of strong vinegar. 
Exclude well from the air, and it will keep for years. 

QUEEN'S SAUCE. 

Simmer crumbs of bread in good gravy, until it is 
quite thick ; take it off the fire, and add a few sw'eet- 
almonds pounded, two hard yolks of eggs, and a 
breast of fowl roasted, all pounded very fine. Boil a 
sufficient quantity of bread to your sauce, and sift all 
together ; then add pepper and salt, and warm it with- 
out boiling. 

FISH-SAUCE. 

Take wahiuts at the season for pickling ; slice them 
into an earthen pan ; between every layer throw a 
small handful of salt; stir it with a wooden stick 
every day for a fortnight; strain the liquor through a 
coarse cloth, and let it stand to settle ; pour ofi" the 
clear, and boil it with a pound of anchovies to each 
pint ; skim it, and let it stand to cool ; give it another 
boil ; add one pint of red port, and one of best white 
vinegar, to each pint of liquor; also, mace, cloves, 
and nutmeg, of each an eighth of an ounce; some 
ground mustard, horseradish, and shallot, or a clove 
of garlic, in each bottle. 

CREAM-SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

Hun the cream over venison just before frothing it, 
and catch it in a dish; boil it up with the yolks of 
two eggs, some onions, and a piece of butter rolled 
in flour and salt. Haifa pint of cream is the propor- 
tion for two eggf^. 



COOKERY. 153 



SAUCE ITALIENNE. 



Put a piece of butter into a stew-pan, with mush- 
rooms, onions, and parsley, all cut fine ; turn the whole 
over the fire for some time, and shake in a little flour ; 
moisten it with a glass of white wine, and as much 
good broth ; add salt, pepper, and a little mace ; beat 
all fine; let it boil half an hour; then skim away the 
fat, and serve it up. It will be an improvement to 
add a bunch of sweet-herbs, which should be taken 
out before the dish is served up. 

NONPAREIL SAUCE. 

Take a slice of boiled ham, as much breast of 
roasted fowl, a pickled cucumber, a yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, one anchovy, a little parsley, and a head 
of shallot, chopped very fine ; boil it a moment in 
good catsup, and use it for meat or fish. 

SAILOR'S SAUCE. 

Chop a fowl's liver with two or three shallots, and a 
couple of trufiies, or mushrooms ; simmer them in a 
spoonful of oil, two or three spoonsful of gravy, a 
glass of white wine, and a little salt and pepper. 
Simmer about half an hour, and skim well before 
usins:. 



154 COOKERY. 



VEGETABLES. 

COOKING VEGETABLES. 

This branch of cookery, though apparently very 
simple, requires the utmost attention, and no little 
judgment. 

Vegetables should be boiled in soft water. If it 
cannot be procured soft, a tea-spoonful of carbonate 
of soda will render it so. 

Take care to wash and cleanse all vegetables from 
dust and other impurities, before cooking ; they should 
be thoroughly cleansed, for which purpose it will be 
necessary to open the leaves of cabbage, &c. 

With regard to the quality of vegetables, the mid- 
dle-sized are to be preferred to the very large. Green 
vegetables, such as cabbage, cauliflower, &c., should 
be cooked fresh, as they are much better, and more 
wholesome. Strong-scented vegetables, such as onions, 
leeks, celery, &c., should be kept apart from delicate 
ones, such as cauliflowers, &c., or the latter will very 
soon spoil. Succulent vegetables, such as cabbage, 
and all sorts of greens, are best preserved in a cool, 
damp, and shady place. Potatoes, turnips, carrots, 
and similar roots, intended to be stored up, should 
not be cleaned of adhering soil, till they are to be 
cooked. 

As the action of frost destroys the life of vegetables, 
and causes them speedily to rot, and as the air also 
injures them, all roots should be protected by laying 
them in heaps, burying them in sand or earth, and 
covering them with straw or something of the kind. 



COOKERY. 155 

FURTHER DIRECTIONS. 

Vegetables, particularly green, in preparing for 
dressing, require great attention in point of cleanli- 
ness. If vegetables for boiling can be gathered per- 
fectly clean, immediately before cooking, they pre- 
serve their color much better without washing, but 
this will seldom be the case, particularly with those 
purchased of the green-grocer. "When they are a 
little stale, which is generally the case, if not gathered 
in your own garden, putting them in water a few 
hours will freshen them. Salt and water should be 
used for the purpose of bringing out the slugs, or 
caterpillars, in which summer cauliflower and cab- 
bage abound. Every drop of cold water, if possible, 
should be shaken out of them before boiling. Green 
peas, broad beans, and French beans, ought not to be 
washed. Turnip-greens, if quite clean and fresh, are 
better not washed ; but if otherwise, they must be 
washed through several waters. 

ASPARAGUS, ARTICHOKES, CELERY, &c. 

Scrape the stalks of asparagus clean, tie them up 
with tape, in bundles of twenty-five or thirty each ; 
cut off the ends of the stalks to equal length. J£ 
quite fresh, they need not be washed. Artichokes 
require thorough washing, and should be soaked at 
least two hours, in water, before cooking. Celery 
should be well soaked. 

SPINACH. 
Pick leaf by leaf, wasb it in three waters, put a 
little salt in the boiling water, boil it very quickly, 
and keep it under the water ; seven or eight minutes 



156 COOKERY. 

will be sufficient to boil it ; strain it on the back of a 
sieve, and press it as dry as possible between two 
plates; spread it on a dish, and score it crossways, 
in squai-es of about an inch. It is often served with 
poached eggs and buttered toast. It is sometimes 
stewed in the following manner: when it has boiled 
five minutes, strain and press it, and put it into a 
stew-pan, the bottom just covered with rich boiling 
gravy, and a bit of butter, a little pepper, salt, and 
two spoonsful of cream ; stew it five minutes. 

GREEN PEAS. 

The common method of cooking this delicious 
vegetable, by boiling in water, is nearly destructive 
to its flavor, at least so says a lady who has sent us 
the following method of preparing them for the table, 
which, after experience, we must add, is a great im- 
provement: Place in the bottom of the sauce-pan, or 
boiler, several of the outside leaves of lettuce ; put 
the peas and butter in the dish, in the proportion of 
two ounces of butter to half a peck of peas ; cover the 
pan or boiler close, and place over the fire ; in thirty 
minutes they are ready for the table. They can either 
be seasoned in the pan or taken out. Water extracts 
nearly all the delicious quality of the green pea. 

TO BAKE BEETS. 

Beets, after being washed carefully, may be baked 
either whole, like sweet potatoes, or in slices, and 
served up hot with butter, pepper, &c., to the taste. 
There is a delicious flavor in beets cooked in this way, 
which is lost when they are boiled. 



COOKERY. 157 



TO BOIL BUTTER BEANS. 
Boil in water, with a small piece of bacon, and 
some salt. When perfectly soft, serve hot, with pep- 
per and melted butter. They are also very nice 
warmed over, fried or baked after they have been 
boiled. 

SNAP BEANS: SOUTHERN MODE OF BOILING THEM. 

Take a piece of bacon (fat and lean), put it on to 
boil, in enough water to cover it well, and after it has 
boiled a half- hour, put your beans in, having had 
them well strung, and boil them with the meat, until 
they are quite done ; take them up, drain off the 
liquor, and serve hot. Cabbage is nice boiled in the 
same way. 

TO BOIL IRISH POTATOES. 

After peeling your potatoes, put them on to boil, 
with enough water to keep them well covered until 
almost done ; then add a pint of sweet milk to a 
quart of potatoes, a tablespoonful of butter, and salt 
to the taste. After adding the milk, &c., boil until 
the sauce is thick enough. Serve in a covered dish 
quite hot. 

They should be well washed just before boiling; 
but should never be the least wetted till they are 
about to be dressed. Some persons like them best 
boiled in the skin ; they are best peeled before boil- 
ing, when they are old or specked. 

CARROTS, PARSNIPS, BEETS, AND TURNIPS. 

Carrots and parsnips should be well rubbed and 
washed, but not scraped, as that is apt to injure the 
14 



158 COOKERY. 

flavor. After boiling, rub the skins with a coarse 
cloth. For soups, &c., they should be scraped. 
Beets should be washed very clean ; but if the red 
sort be scraped with a knife, the color will escape. 
When done, carefully rub with a rough cloth. Wash 
and peel turnips. They are best boiled with fresh 
pork. Carrots and parsnips are also improved by 
adding a delicate part of pork to them while boiling. 
They should be served with butter-sauce, seasoned 
with pepper and salt. 

PURPLE EGG-PLANT OR GUINEA SQUASH. 

Select the squashes, or fruit, when at maturity ; cut 
them into slices, and parboil them in a stew-pan; 
when softened, drain off the water; they may then 
be fried in batter, made with wheaten flour and an 
egg, or in fresh batter, with bread grated fine, 
seasoned before it is put in the pan, with pepper, 
salt, thyme, and such other herbs as may best suit 
the taste. Some use marjoram, summer savory, 
parsley, and onions. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Take off" the outer leaves of such as are young ; 
leave just one leaf; put them with some salt in boil- 
ing water ; boil according to size, from fifteen to 
twenty minutes ; try the stalk with a fork ; Avhen it 
feels tender, and the fork is easily withdrawn, the 
flower is done. Take it out immediately with a wire 
ladle. Cauliflower, unless boiled till tender, is neither 
pleasant nor wholesome ; but, over-boiling will break 
and spoil it. Melted butter is the best sauce. 



COOKERY. 159 



BROCCOLI. 

Choose close, firm heads, nearly of a size. Put 
them into boiling water with salt ; allow them plenty 
of room in boiling, or they will break ; and boil fast, 
to retain their color, from ten to thirty minutes, ac- 
cording to the size of the heads. "When the stalks 
are tender, which you can know b}'' putting a fork 
up the middle of the stalk, they are done. Take 
them up with a wire ladle, that the water may run 
ofi" without bruising the heads. Serve on buttered 
toast : and use melted butter for sauce. 

CABBAGE. 

Large, full-grown cabbages and savoys will require 
half an hour or more in boiling. Strip all the out- 
side leaves to the white ones; then shave the stalk, 
and score it a little way up. Boil with good bacon. 
Cold cabbage may be fried with ham. 

YOUNG COLEWORTS AND SPROUTS. 

Do not be too saving in trimming sprouts, as harsh 
or bad leaves will spoil a whole dish. Boil with good 
bacon. Be careful in draining not to spoil the heads. 

TO PRESERVE GREEN CORN SWEET. 

Gather the corn just as it begins to harden ; boil 
as for the table ; cut the kernels carefully from the 
cob ; spread them to dry on a cloth, and keep them 
thus until well dried; then keep them in a dry, 
cold, even temperature till needed for use. Soak the 
corn a few hours before cooking^. 



160 COOKERY. 



TO BOIL ONIONS. 

Take off the outside skin ; put them in enough hot 
water to cover them well. Boil them quickly until 
soft, then, just before taking them up, drain off the 
water, and pour in as much sweet milk as will make 
sufficient sauce. Season with butter, pepper, and 
salt. Serve hot. 

A DISH OF MACCARONI. 

Boil fonr ounces of maccaroni till it is quite tender, 
then lay it on a sieve to drain, and put it into a stew- 
pan with about a gill of cream, and a piece of butter 
rolled in flour ; stew it five minutes, and pour it on a 
plate ; lay toasted cheese all over it. It is often pre- 
pared without cheese. 

TO MAKE PURLOW. 

It is a dish made with whole rice, thus : — Boil a 
piece of bacon, or sound salted pork, and one or two 
fowls, in the usual way. Take them out, and set 
them by the fire. Then reduce the water in the pot 
to the proper quantity for boiling the rice. Add a 
little salt, spice, and black pepper to the taste, and 
w^hen boiling put in the rice after washing it well. 
Boil from twenty to thirty minutes. Put the pot then 
to soak or steam over a few coals, and in twenty 
minutes the rice will be done. Serve it on a large 
dish, the bacon or pork and fowls side by side on the 
top of the rice. 

PEARL BARLEY AS A SUBSTITUTE FOR RICE. 

It is equally advantageous to the public to learn 
the use of a known substance, as the discovery of a 



COOKERY. 161 

new one. I am sure the application of barley to 
another branch of domestic cookery will not be dis- 
regarded by some of your readers. I can assure them 
that they will find it an excellent substitute for rice. 
It has been long used in this country in soup ; and 
when boiled with milk, sometimes called Scotch rice ; 
but by far the best way of using it is by pounding it 
in a mortar. It was resorted to as a change of food 
for my children's breakfast, and the great similarity 
to manacroop induced us to try it in a pudding for 
them, and I can assure you, I think it one of the 
best of the kind. Some management is necessary as 
with either of the others, as to milk, eggs, &c. What 
we call pearl barley is the kind used, but I dare say 
any other sort would answer well enough. 



SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTER. 

Boil the salsify till the skin will come off easily. 
When you have taken it off neatly, cut the roots in 
bits as long as an oyster ; put into a deep vegetable 
dish a layer of crumbs of bread or crackers, a little 
salt and pepper, and nutmeg, and a covering of butter 
as thin as you can cut it ; then a layer of oysters, till 
your dish is filled, having crumbs at top. Fill the 
dish with water, and brown them handsomely. They 
can remain two hours in the oven without injury, or 
be eaten in half an hour. 

Another way is to boil the salsify, and then slice 
them crosswise, put them in a sauce-pan with a little 
butter, a spoonful or two of cream, a little pepper, 
and some salt ; stir it till it is of a light brown. 
14* 



162 COOKERY. 



WASHING SALADS. 

To free salads from insects and worms, they should 
first be placed in salt-water for a few minutes, to kill 
and bring out the worms, and then washed with fresh- 
water in the usual way. This is an invaluable sug- 
gestion, as all salads are subject to insects. 

TOMATOES FOR WINTER USE. 

Take the largest ripe tomatoes, which wash and 
drain ; cut them across, and lay them with the cut 
side up, in an earthen or wooden vessel ; sprinkle well 
with fine salt, fill your vessel with alternate layers of 
tomatoes and salt, and let it stand all night. In the 
morning, pour ofi* the juice, with as many seeds as 
possible, and throw it away. Put the tomatoes over 
the fire, boil slowly until reduced to a pulp, wliich, 
rub through a sieve, to get rid of the skins. Add to 
this pulp cayenne pepper enough to season it highly, 
and if necessary, more salt ; boil slowly for two hours, 
until quite thick ; stir well to prevent burning. When 
cold, put it into shallow earthen plates to dry, in the 
sun, or in a slow oven. When quite dry, put it in 
glass jars, cork tightly, and if kept in a dry place, 
where it will be free from mold, it will be as good 
at the end of the year, as when first made. A piece 
half an inch thick, and three inches square, will season 
a gallon of soup. If wanted for sauce, soak it in 
warm water, adding butter rubbed with crumbs of 
wheat bread, and stew for a few minutes before 
serving it. 



COOKERY. 1G3 



BREAD, CAKES, ETC. 

A RECEIPT FOR MAKING SUPERIOR BREAD. 

To half a gallon of water, add enough hops to 
make a strong tea ; after it has boiled ten minutes, 
strain, and after it has cooled enough not to scald the 
flour, stir in enough flour to make a stifi batter. 
Have ready dissolved in warm water a teacup-full of 
cake yeast, which you will stir in, and then set it in 
a moderately warm place. It Avill be quite light in a 
few hours, when you will pour it into a tray of corn- 
meal, and knead in enough of the meal to make a 
pretty stiff" dough. Roll it out thin, spread on dishes, 
and dry in the sun as quickly as possible. Put it 
away in a bag, in a dry, airy room. When you wish 
to make bread, take four pints of flour, two yeast 
cakes, the size of the top of a common tumbler, dis- 
solve them in warm water, have ready boiled, peeled, 
and mashed, three or four medium-sized Irish pota- 
toes, which you will add to the yeast cakes, with a 
tea-spoonful of brown sugar, and enough warm water 
to make a mixture the consistency of a thick batter. 
Set it in a moderately warm place, and it will be quite 
light in three or four hours. If you wish to make 
bread in the morning, make the yeast at bed-time. 
Set it where it will not get too warm, and it will not 
sour before morning. Now for the bread. Sift your 
flour, and to four pints of flour, add a spoonful of 
lard, one egg well beaten, the two cakes of yeast that 
you have prepared, with the potato, and enough 
water and new-milk (equal parts) to make a soft 



164 C K E K Y. 

dough. Knead it very smoothly ; set it in a tin 
bucket, which has a cover, in a moderately warm 
place, and it will be light in a few hours, when you 
will knead it again, and let it rise again in the baking 
ovens. Bake with moderate heat. This receipt never 
fails to make excellent bread, when properly attended 
to, and is worth more than the price of a dozen copies 
of this book. 

MRS. MILLER'S RECEIPT FOR PREMIUM BREAD. 

For two large loaves, allow five quarts of flour, 
half a spoonful of salt, and a half- pint of yeast; add 
warm milk until the dough is pretty stiff. Knead 
and set in a warm place to rise. After it is well risen, 
mold thoroughly, and let it stand twenty or thirty 
minutes, for second rising in the pans. 

For the yeast of which this bread is made, pare 
and slice into three pints of cold water, one large 
potato; add a spoonful of hops, and boil till the 
potato is quite soft. Strain the liquid and thicken 
with half a pint of flour, adding a spoonful of sugar. 
When nearly cold, put in a half- gill of 3'east. 

EGG BREAD. 

One cup of rice, one cup of hominy, four eggs, 
one spoonful of butter, three spoonsful of flour, one 
cup of milk, and if sour is used, add a tea-spoonful 
of soda : mash the rice and hominy well together, 
then beat in the yolks of the eggs, leaving the whites 
to be added, just before the bread is put to bake, and 
they should be well whisked. Melt the butter. 



COOKERY. 165 



YEAST FOR BREAD. 



The following methods of making yeast for bread 
are both easy and expeditious: — Boil one pound of 
good flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and 
a little salt, in two gallons of water, for one hour ; 
when milk-warra, bottle it, and cork it close; it will 
be fit for use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this 
will make eighteen pounds of bread. 

ANOTHER. 

To a pound of mashed potatoes (mealy ones are 
best) add two ounces of brown sugar, and two spoons- 
ful of common yeast. The potatoes first to be passed 
through a colander, and mixed with warm water to a 
proper consistence. Thus a pound of potatoes will 
make a pound of good yeast. Keep it moderately 
warm while fermenting. ISTo sugar is used by bakers 
when adding the pulp of potatoes to their rising. 

RECIPE FOR MAKING GOOD BREAD. 

A celebrated baker of excellent bread, having 
retired from business, has furnished the following 
recipe for making good bread, with a request that 
it should be published for the information of the 
public : — 

" Take an earthen vessel, larger at the top than the 
bottom, and in it put one pint of milk-warm water, 
one and a half pounds of flour, and half a pint of 
malt yeast ; mix them well together, and set it away 
(in winter it should be in a warm place), until it rises 
and falls again, which will be in from three to five 
hours (it may be set at night if wanted in the morn- 



166 COOKERY. 

ing) : then put two large spoonsful of salt into two 
quarts of water, and mix it well with the above rising ; 
then put in about nine pounds of flour and work your 
dough well, and set it by until it becomes light. Then 
make it out into loaves. New flour requires one- 
fourth more salt than old and dry flour. The water 
also should be tempered according to the weather ; in 
spring and fall ; it should only be milk-warm ; in hot 
weather, cold ; and in winter, warm." 

The oven should be made hotter than necessary, 
and allowed to cool down after being cleared, so that 
a handful of flour thrown in will not burn, but turn 
a brown color. The loaves may be formed while tr^^- 
ing the temperature of the oven, and be put in soon 
after. If the loaves are large, it will require a little 
more than an hour to bake them sufficiently. 

TO MAKE EXCELLENT BREAD WITHOUT YEAST. 

Scald about a double handful of Indian-meal, into 
which put a little salt and as much cold water as will 
make it rather warmer than new milk. Then stir in 
wheat flour till it is as thick as a family pudding, and 
set it down by the fire to rise. In about half an hour 
it generally draws thin. You may then sprinkle a 
little fresh flour on the top, and turn the pot around, 
that it may not bake to the side of it. In three or 
four hours, if you mind the above directions, it will 
rise and ferment as if you had set it with top yeast. 
"When it does, make it up in a soft dough, flour a 
pan, put in your bread, set it before the fire covered 
up, turn it around to make it equally warm, and in 
about half an hour it will be light enough to bake. 



COOKERY. 167 



A SHORT WAY TO MAKE OLD BREAD NEW. 

Bread that is several days old may be renewed so 
as to have all the freshness and lightness of new 
bread, by simply putting it into a common steamer, 
over a fire, and steaming half or three quarters of an 
hour. The vessel under the steamer containing the 
water should not be more than half full, otherwise 
the water may boil up into the steamer, and wet the 
bread. After the bread is thus steamed, it should be 
taken out of the steamer, and wrapped loosely in a 
cloth to dry and cool, and remain so two or three 
hours, when it will be ready for use. It will be like 
cold, new bread. 

BROWN BREAD, NO. I. 

Take one quart of Indian-meal, one quart of wheat 
meal, one quart of sour milk, half a tea-cupful of 
molasses, a tea-spoonful of soda, and a little salt. 
Stir it with a spoon, and bake it in a tin or iron 
basin about two hours. 

BROWN BREAD, NO. II. 

Put the Indian-meal in your bread-pan, sprinkle a 
little salt among it, and wet it thoroughly with scald- 
ing water. When it is cool, put in half as much rye 
as you have corn-meal ; add two gills of lively yeast ; 
mix your bread wdth w^ater as stiff as you can knead 
it ; let it stand an hour and a half in a cool place, in 
summer, and in a warm place in winter. It should 
be put into a hot oven, and baked three hours at 
least. 



168 COOKERY. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, 

Make up as stiff as can be stirred with warm water, 
(that in which squash or green corn has been boiled), 
three pints of Indian-meal, with three of rye, a few 
spoonsful of pumpkin, half a tea-cupful of yeast, half 
a one of molasses, two tea-spoonsful of salt, and one 
of soda. Put it in two iron or earthen pans, thickly 
buttered, and, Avetting the hand in cold water, smooth 
it over. It will soon rise, and require long baking in 
a hot oven. 

DYSPEPSIA BREAD. 

Three quarts unbolted wheat meal. 

One quart soft water, warm, but not hot. 

One gill fresh yeast. 

One gill molasses, or not, as may suit the taste. 

One tea-spoonful of saleratus. 

Saleratus may be left out, if baked at the exact 
time it has risen enough. 

This will make two loaves, which should remain in 
the oven at least one hour, and when taken out, 
placed where they will cool gradually. 

TO MAKE POTATO BREAD. 

Boil the potatoes, not quite as soft as usual, then 
dry them a short time on the fire, peel them while 
hot, and mash them as fine as possible ; next put a 
small quantity of pearlash to new yeast; while it is 
working briskl}^, add as much flour as can be worked 
in, mix the whole well together, but do not add any 
water to it. After the dough is thus prepared, let it 
stand an hour and a half, or two hours, before it is 
put into the oven : observe, it will not require so long 
baking as regular flour bread. 



COOKERY. 169 



RICE FAMILY BREAD. 



Make one quart of rice flour into a stiff pap, by 
wetting it with warm water, not so hot as to make it 
lumpy ; when well wet, add boiling water, as much as 
two or three quarts ; stir it continually until it boils, 
then add one pint of milk; when cool enough to 
avoid scalding, add half a pint of good yeast, and as 
much wheat flour as will make it of the proper con- 
sistency of bread ; put it to rise : when sufficiently 
risen, it will be necessary to add a little more wheat 
flour. If baked too soft, the loaves will be hollow. 

TURNIP BREAD. 

Let the turnips be peeled, and boiled in water till 
soft and tender; then strongly press out the juice, 
mix well together, and when dry, beat or pound very 
fine, and mix with their weight of wheat meal; 
then season as you do other bread, and knead it 
up thin, letting the dough remain a little to fer- 
ment ; make the dough into loaves, and bake it like 
common bread. 

PUMPKIN BREAD. 

The pumpkin is first deprived of the rind, and after- 
ward cut up into slices and boiled; when soft enough 
it is strained in a colander and mashed up very fine. 
In this state it may be used in pies, or mixed with 
flour for pudding, cake, &c. If it be intended for 
bread, you may add a third or half as much wheat 
wheat flour as pumpkins. The sponge must be 
first set in the ordinary way with yeast in the flour, 
and the pumpkin worked in as it begins to rise : use 
as much pumpkin as will bring the dough to a proper 
15 



170 COOKERY. 

degree of stiffness without water. Care should be 
taken that the pumpkin is not so hot as to scald the 
leaven. It requires more baking than bread made 
entirely of wheat. 

CORN BREAD. 

Stir up one quart of Indian-meal with milk, add 
two beaten eggs and a table-spoonful of melted butter, 
pour the batter into a bake-pan, and bake slowly with 
coals on the lid and underneath the pan, or hung 
over the fire. This is a nice process, and upon the 
baking greatly depends the flavor of the bread. Eaten 
warm with butter, we have found it the most delicious 
kind of bread we ever tasted. 

LIGHT CORN BREAD. 

Stir four pints of meal into three pints of warm 
water, add one large tea-spoonful of salt, let it rise 
five or six hours, then stir it up with the hand, and 
bake it in a brisk oven. 

Another method is to make mush, and before it 
gets cold, stir in half a pint of meal. Let it rise, and 
bake as the first. 

JUDSON'S CORN BREAD. 

Add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs to a pint 
of buttermilk, and briskly stir in a small handful of 
Indian-meal. Add a spoonful of drawn butter, and 
stir in, alternately, the reserved whites well beaten, 
and meal enough to make a smooth batter of moderate 
consistence. Add a little soda, quickly turning it 
into buttered tins, and bake in a brisk oven. 



COOKERY. 171 

CORN BREAD. 

One quart milk, one pound Indian-meal, two eggs, 
a small lump of butter, a little saleratus — bake in a 
flat pan. 

INDIAN LOAF. 

Stir together a quart of sweet milk, a full pint of 
Indian meal, a handful of flour, a teacup of molasses, 
a little salt, and a small teaspoonful of saleratus. 
Bake long in a hot oven. 

CORN BREAD. 

Scald the meal, make a tolerably stiff dough, press 
or roll it to half an inch in thickness, bake one side 
at a time, in front of the flre, after being put on a 
board or sheet of tin. 

CORN EGG BREAD. 

One pint of buttermilk, three eggs, one ounce of 
butter, a teaspoonful of soda, and enough meal to 
make a pretty stiff batter. Beat the eggs separately, 
stir the soda into the milk, then mix all well together, 
adding a little salt. Bake in a moderate oven. 

INDIAN SPONGE BREAD. 

Three eggs, one pint of buttermilk, one pint of 
corn-meal, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

RYE BATTER CAKES. 

One pint of rye meal, to this add enough of luke- 
warm milk to make a thin batter, a little salt just to 
taste. Beat it well — add a gill of home-made yeast. 
When they are light, bake them on a griddle, as buck- 
wheat cakes. 



172 COOKERY. 



INDIAN-MEAL BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Pour boiling water into a quart of corn meal, stir 
it until it is wet ; then add two well-beaten eggs, and 
milk enough to make it a thick batter; measure a 
small teaspoonful of dry saleratus, and dissolve it in 
some warm water, and put into the batter with a 
small quantity of salt ; butter square tin pans, fill them 
two-thirds full, and bake in a quick oven ; when done, 
cut it into squares and serve hot. 

INDIAN MUFFINS. 

Pour boiling water into a quart of corn meal, stii^ 
it well, making a thick batter ; when it is cooled a 
little, add to it a tablespoonful of yeast, two eggs well 
beaten, a teaspoonful of salt ; set it in a warm place 
to rise, two hours; then butter square tins, two-thirds 
fill them, and bake in a quick oven; when done, 
serve hot. 

CORN CAKES. 

Take the whites of eight eggs, one-fourth pound 
each of corn starch, flour, and butter, half a pound of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a 
teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with almond to suit the 

taste. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Is prepared from the corn meal scalded, and the 
dough rolled or pressed out to half an inch in thick- 
ness, and cooked one side at a time, in front of the fire, 
after being put on a board, a sheet of tin, a plate or any 
material of suitable shape. 



COOKERY. 173 



JOHNNY CAKE. 

Three pints of Indian-meal, one egg, and a spoon- 
ful of sugar. Mix with milk or water ; spread on a 
tin, and bake it. before the fire. 

MILK TOAST. 

Boil a pint of rich milk with a table spoonful of 
butter, and one of flour. Have ready in a deep dish 
eight slices of toasted bread, pour the milk over them, 
and send them to the table covered and hot. 

CRACKERS. 

One quart of flour and two ounces of butter mixed 
to a stifi" paste with milk. Beat it smooth with a 
rolling-pin, then roll it thin and cut it in round or 
square cakes ; stick them with a fork, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

SODA CRACKERS. 

Take three eggs, one cup of milk, one of sugar, a 
teaspoonful of soda, and a little cinnamon ; add flour 
until it is a soft dough. Roll it out thin ; cut it in 
shapes, and bake quickly. 

DYSPEPSIA CRACKERS. 

Make with unbolted flour, water, and saleratus. 
Very convenient for travelling. 

SWEET CK ACKERS. 

One teacup of coarse wheat meal, one of sour milk 
or buttermilk, three-fourths of a teacup of sugar, half 
a teaspoonful of pearlash, well worked, rolled thin, 
and well baked. 
15* 



174 COOKERY. 



GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

One quart of wheat meal, half a pint of Indian- 
meal, and a little salt. Mix with water, roll them 
out very thin, and bake them hard. Add a little 
sugar, if desired. 

RICE CRACKERS. 

A pint of warm water, a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
pint of flour. 

FRENCH ROLLS: PARKINSON'S RECEIPT. 

Set a sponge with a quart of warm water, and a 
half- pint of good yeast. Let your sponge rise and 
drop; then melt one ounce of butter in a pint of 
warm milk, with one ounce of salt. It will take 
about seven pounds of flour altogether. Let them 
rise about half an hour, then put them on warm tins, 
prove them well and bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. CUSHING'S SWEET POTATO ROLLS. 

Rub into three pints of flour one teaspoonful of 
salt, two spoonsful of butter, two of lard, and one gill 
of yeast. When light, rub in a large sweet-potato, 
which has been well boiled. "Work out the rolls in 
the form you wish them; let them stand in a warm 
oven a few minutes, and then bake about a half-hour 
in a moderate oven. 

COMMON ROLLS. 

"Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk; 
then add two spoonsful of yeast, and a teaspoonful of 
salt; put two pounds of flour in a pan, and mix in 



COOKERY. 175 

the other ingredients. Let it rise an hour, or over- 
night in a cool place. Knead it well ; make it into 
seven rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. Add 
half a teaspoonful of soda, just as you put the rolls in 
to bake. 

ROLLS. 

Three pints of flour sifted, two teaspoonsful of salt, 
four tablespoonsful of the best brewer's yeast, or six 
of home-made yeast, a pint of lukewarm water, half 
a pint more of warm water, and a little more flour to 
mix in before the kneading. Mix the salt with the 
flour, and make a deep hole in the middle. Stir the 
warm water into the yeast, and pour it into the hole 
in the flour. Stir it with a spoon just enough to make 
a thin batter, and sprinkle some flour over the top. 
Cover the pan, and set it in a warm place for several 
hours. When it is light, add half a pint more of luke- 
warm water, and make it, with a little more flour, into 
a dough. ]$nead it very well for ten minutes. Then 
divide it into small pieces, and knead it separately. 
Make into round cakes or rolls. Cover them, and 
set them to rise about an hour and a half. Bake 
them, and when done let them remain in the oven, 
without the lid, for about ten minutes. 

SOFT MUFFINS. 

Five eggs, a quart of milk, two ounces of butter, a 
teaspoonful of salt, two large tublespoonsful of brew- 
er's yeast, or four of home-made yeast, and enough 
of sifted flour to make a stiff" batter. Warm the milk 
and butter together, and add to them the salt. Beat 
the eggs very light, and stir them into the milk and 
butter. Then stir in the yeast, and lastly sufficient 
flour to make a thick batter. Cover the mixture, and 



176 COOKERY. 

set it to rise in a warm place, about three hours. 
"When it is quite light, grease your baking-iron and 
your muffin -rings. Set the rings on the iron, and 
pour the batter into them. Bake them a light brown. 
When you split them to butter, do not cut them with 
a knife, but pull them open. Cutting them while 
hot will make them heavy. 

FRENCH MUFFINS. 

One quart of flour, four eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cake (medium 
size) of yeast dissolved in warm water. Set it to rise 
in the pan it is to bake in. 

CRUMPETS. 

Put a half gill of yeast into a quart of warm milk, 
with a teaspoonful of salt; stir in flour enough to 
make a pretty stiflT batter ; set it in a warm place to 
rise ; when light, add a cup of melted butter, and 
bake as muffins. 

^ CREAM TEA CAKES. 

To a quart of flour, put a pint of sour cream, and 
a cup of butter ; dissolve half a teaspoonful of soda 
in a little warm water, add it, and mix it lightly. 
Flour your hands well, and make it out into small 
cakes, each one the size of an egg ; lay them close in 
a buttered pan, and bake in a quick oven. 

SODA CAKES, NO. I. 

Two eggs well beaten, one pint of milk, one pint 
of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little 
of the milk, and two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
dissolved in a little water, just as you are ready to 
bake. Bake like batter cakes. 



COOKERY. 177 

SODA CAKES, NO. II. 

Four eggs, two cups of thick cream, two cups of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar. Bake 
in a moderately warm oven. 

COFFEE CAKES. 

Take some rice that has been boiled soft, twice as 
much flour as rice, a little fine Indian-meal, and a 
little yeast. Mix it with cold water, and let it rise 
over-night ; this will make a fine biscuit for breakfast. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Boil one large cup of whole rice quite soft, in milk, 
and while hot stir in a little rice flour, or Indian-meal. 
"When cold, add two or three eggs, and a little salt. 
Bake in small, thin cakes on the griddle. 

RICE JOHNNY CAKES. 

To three spoonsful of soft-boiled rice, add a small 
teacup of water or milk, then add six spoonsful of 
rice flour, which will make a large johnny cake, or 
six waffles. 

ANOTHER. 

Take one quart of milk, three eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus, one teacupful of wheat flour, and 
Indian-meal sufficient to make a batter of the con- 
sistency of pancakes. Bake quick in a pan previously 
buttered, and eat warm with butter or milk. The 
addition of the wheat flour is found to be a great im- 
provement in the art of making these cakes. 



178 COOKERY. 

RICE CAKES. 

A pint of soft-boiled rice, a half- pint of milk or 
water, and twelve spoonsful of rice flour ; divide into 
small cakes, and bake them in a brisk oven. 

TEA BISCUIT, 

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
flour enough to make a soft dough, and a spoonful 
of lard or butter ; roll out and cut into small biscuit. 

LIGHT BISCUIT. 

Take two pounds of flour, a pint of buttermilk, a 
small piece of butter or lard, rubbed into the flour, 
and make the dough quite soft. 

EXCELLENT BISCUIT. 

One half-gallon of flour, two spoonsful of butter, 
or half lard will answer as well ; one teaspoonful of 
soda, and enough sour milk to make a very soft dough, 
which should be well kneaded, but not beaten. Bake 
in a moderate oven, put the biscuit in when it is warm, 
and heat it by degrees. 

MILK BISCUIT. 

Take four quarts of flour, two pounds of lard and 
butter rolled well ; mix with milk ; add a little salt. 

MILK BISCUIT. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, half a pound of butter, 
two eggs, six wine-glasses of milk, two wine-glasses 
of the best brewer's yeast, or three of good home- 
made yeast ; cut the butter into the milk, and warm 
it slightly on the top of the stove, or near the fire ; 



COOKERY. 179 

sift the flour into a pan, and pour the milk and butter 
into it, beat the eggs, and pour them in also ; lastly 
the yeast ; mix all well together with a knife ; flour 
j-our paste board, put the lump of dough on it, and 
knead it very hard. Then cut your dough in small 
pieces, and knead them into round balls, stick the 
tops of them with a fork. Lay them in buttered pans 
and set them to rise. They will probably be light in 
an hour ; when they are quite light, put them in a 
moderate oven to bake. 

BUTTER BISCUIT. 

Half a pound of butter, two pounds of flour sifted, 
half a pint of milk, or cold water, a teaspoonful of 
salt ; cut up the butter in the flour, and put the salt 
to it, wet it to a stifi" dough with the milk, or water ; 
mix it well with a knife, throw some flour on the 
paste board, take the dough out of the pan, and knead 
it very well. Roll it out into a large, thick sheet, and 
beat it very hard on both sides with the rolling-pin ; 
beat it a long time, cut it out with a tin, or cup, into 
small, round, thick cakes. Beat each cake on both 
sides, with a rolling-pin, prick them with a fork, put 
them in buttered pans, and bake them of a light 
brown, in a slow oven. 

GRIDDLE CAKES, NO. I. 

Eub three ounces of butter into a pound of flour, 
with a little salt ; moisten it with sweet buttermilk to 
make it into paste ; roll it out, and cut the cakes with 
the top of your dredging-box, and bake them on a 
griddle. 



180 COOKERY. 

GRIDDLE CAKES, NO. II. 

Take a pint of thick milk, or a quart of sour ; to 
the thick add a pint of sweet milk, a little salt, a tea- 
spoonful of soda, and flour to make a batter; the 
thinner the batter, the more tender the cakes will be, 
if baked well. Half a tea-cup of cream improves 
them. Butter while hot. For a sauce, take a tea- 
cupful of cream, a spoonful of sugar, and half a tea- 
spoonful of ginger. 

PANCAKES OF RICE. 

Boil half a pound of rice in a small quantity of 
water, to a jelly; when cold, mix it with a pint of 
cream, eight eggs, a little salt, and nutmeg ; stir in 
eight ounces of butter, just warmed, and add as much 
flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in 
lard, using as little as possible. 

BATTER CAKES. 

Two eggs well beaten, a tea-cup of milk, a pint of 
flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
tartaric acid, and salt to your taste. Leave out the 
tartaric acid until you are ready to bake. 

GRIFFIN BATTER CAKE. 

Two eggs well beaten ; a conimon-sized tin cup full 
of flour ; a common teacupful of milk ; a teaspoon- 
ful of soda ; a teaspoonful of tartaric acid ; salt to 
your taste. Leave out one of the powders until you 
are read}' to bake ; have your oven pretty hot, and 
grease it just enough (with fresh lard) to keep it from 
burning. Send the cakes to the table hot. 



COOKERY. 181 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Put a large spoonful of yeast and a little salt into 
a quart of buckwheat, in a jar, and make it into a 
batter with cold Avater ; let it rise well, and bake it 
on a griddle. It turns sour very quickl}^, if it be 
allowed to stand any time after it has risen. They 
should be buttered, and served up while hot. 

ANOTHER. 

In lieu of water, mix up your batter with butter- 
milk ; and instead of leaven or yeast, use a little 
saleratus (about one teaspoonful to a pint of milk), 
and two or three eggs. 

BATTER CAKES. 

One pint of cream, one pint of sour milk or butter- 
milk, four eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, saleratus suffi- 
cient to destroy the acidity of the milk, and three 
pints of sifted flour, or enough to make a stiff batter. 
Stir the articles well together, and bake in a deep 
dish. If for griddle cakes, the batter may be made a 
little thinner, by not adding so much flour. To be 
eaten hot with butter. 

GREEN CORN CAKES. 

Take one quart of green corn, rasped from the ear 
with a coarse grater, two teacupsful of new milk, 
one teacupful of flour, mix them together, and add 
two eggs well beaten ; season the batter with salt and 
pepper, and bake upon a griddle. The corn should be 
in a state most suitable for roasting or boiling. This 
preparation makes a capital dish. 
16 



182 COOKERY. 

TO MAKE PANCAKES. 

Take a quart of milk, beat in six or eight eggs, 
leaving half the white out; mix it well till your bat- 
ter is of a proper thickness. You must observe to 
mix your flour first with a little milk, then add the 
rest by degrees ; put in two spoonsful of beaten gin- 
ger, a glass of brandy, and a little salt ; stir all toge- 
ther ; make your stew-pan very clean, put in a piece 
of butter as large as a walnut, then pour in a ladle 
of batter, which will make a pancake, moving the pan 
round that the batter may be all over the pan : shake 
the pan, and when you think the under side done 
enough, turn it, and when both sides are done, lay it 
in a dish before the fire. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

This cake derives its name ft*om the fact that it was 
a great favorite at the table of General Washington ; 
the last two years of his life, it always formed one of 
the delicacies of his breakfast-table, and is considered 
one of the standing dishes of a Virginian. 

Take two pounds of flour, one quart of milk, with 
an ounce of butter, heated together; put the milk 
and butter into the flour w^hen it is about lukeAvarm ; 
add one gill good yeast, three eggs, a teaspoonful of 
salt ; place it in a pan over-night, and bake it in the 
morning in a quick oven for three-quarters of au hour. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two pounds of flour, six eggs well beaten, one 
wineglass of yeast, a little salt, wet with milk into a 
thick batter, and set it to rise. Bake them in small 
pans. 



COOKERY. 183 

BANNOCKS. 

Scald with milk or water one quart of corn meal ; 
when cool, add two spoonsful of yeast, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one egg, and one quart of flour. Let it 
rise, and then add half a teaspoouful of soda. Fry 
in lard. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Boil a quart of milk, with cinnamon and sugar to 
the taste. When done, stir in a tablespoonful of 
rose-water, cut some slices of bread into a circular 
shape, and soak them in milk ; then drain them ; 
have ready some yolks of eggs well beaten, into which 
dip the slices of bread, and fry them in butter. Serve 
them with powdered sugar. 

FRITTERS. 

Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small quantity in the pan ; or 
make the plainer sort, and slice apples (pared and 
cored), into the batter, and fry a slice in each fritter. 
Currants or sliced lemon make an agreeable change. 
Fritters for company should be served on a folded 
napkin in the dish. Any kind of ripe fruit, or sweet- 
meats, may be used instead of apples. 

PUFF FRITTERS. 

Boil a pint of fresh milk ; while it is boiling, stir 
in quickly a pint of flour; take it ofi^ as soon as the 
flour is all in. After it has cooled, stir in six eggs 
well beaten ; add a little cinnamon, and set it in a 



184 COOKERY. 

warm place four hours. Then have hot lard in a pan, 
and drop one spoonful of batter for each fritter. Dip 
your spoon in cold water frequently, to keep the bat- 
ter from sticking. For sauce, make thin pap of milk 
and flour ; add to it wine, sugar, nutmeg, and a small 
piece of butter. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs ; flavor with 
a very little nutmeg ; beard the oysters, and put as 
many as you think proper in each fritter. 

WAFFLES. 

Beat four eggs, mix flour and milk to make a thick 
batter, using a quart of flour, a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. A half- pint 
of boiled rice improves them. 

WAFERS. 

Sift half a pound of flour into a pan ; make a hole 
in the middle, and put in three beaten eggs, a table- 
spoonful of brandy, a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, one of lard, and a very little salt. Mix all to-, 
gether, adding gradually a little milk, till you have a' 
batter the thickness of good cream. Then stir in a 
tablespoonful of rose-water. Let there be no lumps 
in the batter. Heat the wafer-iron on both sides in a 
clear fire, but do not allow it to get red-hot. Then 
grease the inside with a brush dipped in lard, or a 
clean rag with butter tied up in it. Then put in the 
batter, allowing about two tablespoonsful to each 



COOKERY. 185 

wafer. Close the iron, and in baking turn first on 
one side and then on the other. When done, sprinkle 
the wafers with powdered sugar, and roll each one 
up, pressing the edges together while warm. They 
should be slightly browned, and of an even tint all 
over. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Take five teacups of flour, three of sugar, two of 
butter, one of milk, five eggs, a teaspoonful of soda, 
a wine-glass of brandj^ or wine, a pound of raisins, 
and a nutmeg. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; 
add the eggs well beaten, the spice, and half the 
flour ; dissolve the soda in the milk, strain and mix 
it with the brandy, and stir it into the cake with the 
balance of the flour. Add the raisins just before the 
cake is put into the pan, and bake from three quarters 
to an hour. 



PLAIN COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Take a pound and three quarters of flour, one and 
a quarter of sugar, three quarters of butter, a pint of 
milk, four eggs, and a teaspoonful of soda. Prepare 
and bake as the preceding. 



CIDER CAKE. 

One pound and a half of flour, half a pound of 
sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pint of 
cider, one teaspoonful of pearlush ; spice to your 
taste. Bake till it turns easilj in the pans, about 
half an hour. 
16* 



186 COOKERY. 



CONFECTIONERS' POUNDCAKE. 

Eub to a cream twenty ounces of sugar, and twelve 
of butter; stir in twelve well-beaten eggs, a pound 
and a half of sifted flour, and mace and nutmeg to 
suit the taste. 

POUND CAKE, NO. I. 

Rub one pound of sugar, and three quarters of 
butter, to a cream ; add the well-beaten yolks of ten 
eggs, then the whites, and stir in gradually a pound 
of sifted flour. 

POUND CAKE, NO. II. 

Take one and a half dozen eggs ; their weight of 
sugar; and of butter and flour each, the weight of a 
dozen eggs; cream the butter and sugar together; 
beat the eggs separately ; then beat all well together ; 
add a grated nutmeg, and two spoonsful of rose-water; 
bake slowly at first, adding heat gradually, for the 
cake to rise ; then bake in a moderately quick oven. 

POUND CAKE, NO. III. 

Take a pound of butter, beat it in an earthen pan 
with your hand one way till it is like a fine thick 
cream ; then have ready twelve eggs, put half the 
whites, beat them well, and beat them up with the 
butter, a pound of flour beat in it, a pound of sugar, 
a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, and a 
few caraways. Beat it all well together for an hour 
with your hands, or a large wooden spoon : butter a 
pan and put it in, and then bake it an hour in a quick 
oven. 



COOKERY. 187 



SPONGE CAKE, NO. I. 

One pound of sugar, a half-gill of boiling water, 
eight eggs, one pound of flour. Pour the water on 
the sugar, when cool, mix first with the yolks, and 
then the whites. 

SPONGE CAKE, NO. II. 

Twelve eggs, a half-pound of flour, one pound 
of sugar. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs 
separately, add next the sugar to the yolks, then the 
whites ; lastly the flour, and stir it in lightly. Bake 
in a quick oven immediately after adding the juice 
of a lemon, also the rind grated fine, and a nutmeg. 

Sponge cake should not be beaten any after the 
flour has been added, as it will prevent it from being 
light. 

SPONGE CAKE, NO. III. 

Four large eggs, two cups of flour, two cups of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, and rose-water, and 
nutmeg to flavor. Beat the eggs separately, then add 
the sugar to the yolks, next the whites, lastly the 
flour. Stir in the flour gently, or the cake will not 
be light. Bake in a moderate oven. 

CHEAP SPONGE CAKE. 

. Four eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to make a stiff' 
batter, spices to the taste. Bake in a quick oven. 



188 COOKERY. 



SPONGE BISCUIT. 

Beat ten eggs very thick and smooth, and add 
gradually a pound of powdered refined sugar ; grate 
the peel of a lemon, and stir it into the mixture. 
Squeeze in the juice of the lemon, and add two table- 
spoonsful of rose-water. Beat the mixture very hard ; 
then take half a pound of potato flour (which is 
best), or else of fine wheat flour, and stir it in very 
lightly and slowly. It must be baked immediately. 

Have ready some small square or oblong cases of 
thick white paper, with an edge turned up all around, 
and sewed at the corners. They should be about a 
finger in length, half a finger in breadth, and an inch 
and a half in depth. Either butter these paper cases, 
or sift white sugar all over the inside ; then put some 
of the mixture in each case, but do not fill them to the 
top ; grate loaf-sugar over the top of each, and bake 
them quickly. 

These cakes are much better when baked in paper 
cases, tins being generally too thick for them ; no 
cake requires greater care in baking. If the oven is 
not hot enough, both at top and bottom, they will fall 
and be heavy, and lose their shape. 

RICE CAKE. 

Take half a pound of rice and wash it well, put it 
into a pint of cream, or milk, and boil it soft ; let it 
get cold, then stir into it alternately a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, eight eggs, 
well beaten (having left out the whites of four), and 
a wine-glass of rose-water, or else the grated peel of 
a lemon. Mix all well, butter a mold or a deep pan 
with straight sides, and spread grated bread crumbs 



COOKERY. 189 

all over its inside. Put in the mixture, and bake it 
three-quarters of an hour. Ground rice is the best 
for this cake. If any of the cake is left, you may 
next day cut it into slices, and fry them in butter. 

Or, instead of baking the mixture in a large cake, 
you may put flour on your hands, and roll it into balls. 
Make a batter of beaten eggs, sugar, and grated bread ; 
dip the balls into it, and fry them in butter. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Roast in the ashes a dozen small, or six large pota- 
toes. "When done, peel them, and put them into a 
pan with a little salt, and the rind of a lemon grated. 
Add a quarter of a pound of butter, or half a pint of 
cream, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Having 
mashed the potatoes with this mixture, rub it through 
a colander, and stir it very hard; then set it away to 
cool. Beat eight eggs, and stir them gradually into 
the mixture. Season it with a teaspoonful of mixed 
spice, and half a glass of rose-water ; butter a mold 
or a deep dish, and spread the inside all over with 
grated bread ; put in the mixture, and bake it for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of sugar rolled, and beaten with a pound 
of butter; one pound of flour; one pound of cur- 
rants; half a pound of seeded raisins; a wine-glass 
of brandy ; a grated nutmeg ; a little mace ; ten eggs, 
and half a pound of citron ; beat the yolks first, and 
mix in with the other ingredients ; then beat the 
whites as light as possible, and add them. Bake 
about an hour and a half. 



190 COOKERY. 

SILVER CAKE. 

The whites of six eggs, half a cup of butter, three- 
fourths of a cap of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, two 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
a teaspoonful of soda. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

Four quarts of flour, three-quarters of a pound of 
butter, four eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
currants, or raisins, half a pint of good yeast. Mois- 
ten it with milk, over-night, in winter ; and in warm 
weather three hours is usually enough for it to rise. 

CHEAP AND EXCELLENT CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of buttermilk, eight 
cups of flour, one cup of butter, four eggs, two tea- 
spoonsful of soda, a little salt. Bake in a quick oven. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One pound of white sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, six ounces of butter, the whites of fourteen 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, a little mace and citron. 
This cake should be frosted. 

QUEEN CAKE. 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, with some 
rose-water, one quart of flour, and one pound of sifted 
sugar. Beat all well together; add a few currants, 
washed and dried. Bake in a moderate oven, and 
dredge with white sugar. 



COOKERY. 191 

SCOTCH QUEEN CAKE. 

Melt a pound of butter. Then set it away to cool. 
Sift two quarts of oat-meal into a pan, and mix with 
it a pound of powdered sugar, and a tablespoonful of 
powdered cinnamon and mace. Make a hole in the 
middle, put in the melted butter, and mix with a 
knife till you have formed of the whole a lump of 
dough. If it is too stiff, moisten it with a little rose- 
water. Knead it well, and roll it out into a large 
oval sheet, an inch thick. Cut it down the middle, 
and then across, so as to divide it into four cakes. 
Prick them with a fork, and crimp or scollop the 
edges neatly. Lay them in shallow pans ; set them 
in a quick oven, and bake them of a light brown. 
This cake will keep a week or two. You may mix 
in with the dough a half-pound of currants, picked, 
washed, and dried. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

Rub three-quarters of a pound of butter into a 
pound of sifted flour ; mix in a pound of powdered 
sugar, and a large tablespoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon. Mix it into a dough, with three well-beaten 
eggs. Roll it out into a sheet ; cut it in round cakes, 
and bake them in a quick oven ; they will require but 
a few minutes to bake. 

CUP CAKE, NO. I. 

Five eggs ; two large teacupsful each of molasses, 
fine rolled brown sugar, butter, and rich milk; five 
cups of sifted flour; half a cup of powdered allspice 
and cloves, and half a cup of ginger; cut up the 
butter in the milk, and warm them slightly ; warm 



192 COOKERY. 

also the molasses, and stir it into the milk and butter; 
then stir in, gradually, the sugar, and set it away to 
cool. Beat the eggs very light, and stir them into 
the mixture alternately with the flour ; add the ginger 
and other spice, and stir the whole very hard. Butter 
small tins, nearly fill them with the mixture, and bake 
the cake in a moderate oven. 

CUP CAKE, NO. II. 

Take two cups of sugar, one of butter, four eggs ; 
half a teacup of milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
four cups of flour ; beat up the sugar and butter to- 
gether, next add the eggs, then the flour. Beat all 
well together ; bake quickly. 

CUP CAKE, NO. III. 

Nine cups of flour, four of sugar, two of butter, 
half a cup of milk, two teaspoonsful of soda, eight 
eggs, and nutmeg to the taste. 

CREAM CUP CAKES. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, three of cream, 
and four eggs. Beat together w^ell, and bake in square 
tin pans ; when cold, cut in squares, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, with a pint 
of cream, two ounces of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg, 
cinnamon, and mace. Rub the pan with a bit of 
butter, and fry the pancakes. 



COOKERY. 193 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

Take a piece of butter the size of a hen's egg ; melt 
and mix it with a pint of good molasses, a quart of 
flour, and a spoonful of sugar ; the same of ginger. 
Dissolve a spoonful of soda in a tumbler of milk ; 
strain and mix it with the other ingredients, adding 
suflicient flour to roll out easily. Bake on flat tins in 
a quick oven, after rolling it out about an inch thick. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Mix, with six ounces of butter, a pound of sugar ; 
stir into this mixture four well-beaten eggs, with three 
teaspoonsful of ginger; add, gradually, a pound and 
a half of flour ; dissolve a teaspoonful of soda in a 
wine-glass of milk ; stir it in, and bake immediately. 

HARD MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

Mix a teacup of melted butter wdth a pint of mo- 
lasses, a quart of flour, and a spoonful of ginger ; dis- 
solve a spoonful of soda in a tumbler of water ; stir 
it in, adding enough flour to roll it out. Bake in an 
oven moderately warm. 

SOFT MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

Mix, with a pint of molasses, a teacup of melted 
butter, a pint of flour, two well-beaten eggs, and a 
spoonful of ginger ; the peel of a fresh lemon cut into 
small chips is an improvement; dissolve in a tumbler 
of milk, and stir in two teaspoonsful of soda ; add 
flour to make it the consistency of unbaked pound- 
cake. Bake about half an hour in deep pans. 
17 



194 COOKERY. 



GINGERBREAD CAKE. 

Take three pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of butter rubbed in very fine, two ounces 
of ground ginger, a large nutmeg grated ; then take 
a pound of treacle, and a quarter of a pint of cream; 
make them warm together; adding a spoonful of 
saleratus will improve them : make up the bread stiff; 
roll it out, and make it up into thin cakes ; cut them 
out with a teacup or small glass, or roll them round 
like nuts, and bake them on tin plates in a slack 
oven. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Pour teacups of flour, two cups of molasses, half a 
cup of butter, two cups of buttermilk, a cup of thick 
cream, three eggs, one tablespoonful of ground gin- 
ger, and the same of saleratus. Mix them all toge- 
ther, with the exception of the buttermilk, in which 
the saleratus must be dissolved, and then add to the 
rest. It must not stand long before sent to bake. 



GINGER COOKIES. 

Take one cup of sugar, one of molasses, one of 
butter, one egg, one spoonful of soda, one of ginger, 
and one of vinegar ; add seven cups of flour. 



GINGER SNAPS, NO. I. 

Take one pint of molasses, one teacup of butter, 
one spoonful of ginger, and one teaspoonful of soda. 
Boil all the ingredients together. When nearly cold, 
add enough flour to make a soft dough. 



COOKERY. 195 

GINGER SNAPS, NO. II. 

Mix four ounces of lard, and four of butter, with 
four ounces of brown sugar, a pint of molasses, two 
spoonsful of ginger, and a quart of flour; add two 
teaspoonsful of soda, dissolved in a cup of buttermilk, 
and suflicient flour to make a soft dough ; cut into 
small cakes, and bake in a slow oven. 

RAIL-ROAD CAKE. 

Six eggs, two cups of flour, t^^'o cups of sugar, one 
large tablespoonful of butter, four spoonsful of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. Mix the cream of tartar with the 
flour ; add the soda with the milk. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

WINE CAKE. 

Put six ounces of sugar in a pint of wine ; make it 
boiling hot; when it has cooled to blood-heat, pour it 
on six well-beaten eggs, and stir in a quarter of a 
pound of flour ; beat well, and bake immediately. 

SOFT CAKE FOR TEA. 

Beat ten eggs light, and one and a half pounds of 
sugar, a half pound of butter, two pounds of flour, a 
glass of rose-water, and half a nutmeg. 

TEA CAKE. 

Three eggs, three cups of sugar, two of butter, one 
of sour milk, and one and a half teaspoonsful of soda ; 
add enough flour to make a very soft dough ; roll out 
pretty thin, and bake in a moderate oven. 



196 COOKERY. 

TEA CAKE — ANOTHER. 

Beat to a cream, one cup of butter, with two of 
sugar ; stir in two well-beaten eggs ; add enough flour 
to make a soft dough ; a grated nutmeg ; one teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a cup of sour milk ; roll out, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

NAPLES BISCUIT. 

One pound and a half each of flour and sugar ; nine 
eggs, half a pint of rose-water. Beat the eggs well ; 
put the rose-water in by degrees ; then mix the flour 
and sugar together. 

SUGAR BISCUIT. 

Three pounds of flour sifted, one pound of butter, 
a pound and a half of powdered sugar, half a pint of 
milk, two tablespoonsful of brandy, a small teaspoon- 
ful of pearlash dissolved in water, four tablespoonsful 
of caraway seeds ; put the butter into the flour, add 
the sugar and caraway seeds, pour in the brandy, and 
then the milk ; lastly, put in the pearlash ; stir all well 
with a knife, and mix it thoroughly till it becomes a 
lump of dough ; flour your paste board, and lay the 
dough on it; knead it very well ; divide it into eight 
or ten pieces, and knead each piece separately ; then 
put them all together, and knead them very M'ell in 
one lump ; cut the dough in half, and roll it out in 
sheets about half an inch thick ; beat the sheets of 
dough very hard on both sides with the rolling-pin ; 
cut them out into round cakes with the eds"e of a 
tumbler; butter iron pans and lay the cakes in them: 
bake them of a very pale brown. If done too much, 
they will lose their taste. These cakes, kept in a 
stone jar, closely covered from the air, will continue 
perfectly good for several months. 



COOKERY. 197 



RUSK. 



Take at night one teacup of milk, half a cup of 
butter, one teacup of fresh yeast, and two eggs ; beat 
all well together ; then add enough flour to make a 
very soft dough. In the morning, add sugar and cin- 
namon to the taste, and a little more flour, to have it 
about the consistence of loaf bread ; knead it well ; 
let it rise again ; then bake with gradual heat. 

RICH SMALL CAKES. 

Three eggs, three tablespoonsful of butter, three of 
sugar, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of essence 
of lemon, and half a nutmeg; work all together; roll 
thin ; cut into small cakes, and bake. 

BUNNS. 

One pound and a half of flour, (a quarter of a pound 
left to sift in last,) half a pound of butter cut up fine 
together ; then add four eggs ; beat up to a high froth 
four teacups of milk, half a wine-glass of brandy, 
wine, and rose-water, each, and one wine-glass of 
yeast. Stir it all together with a knife, and add half 
a pound of sugar. Then sift in the quarter of a pound 
of flour, and when the lumps are all beaten fine, set 
them to rise in the pans they are to be baked in. This 
quantity will make four square pans full. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Two quarts of flour, half a pound of sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, three eggs, one gill of milk, 
one half teacupful of good yeast, and cloves and nut- 
meg to the taste. 
17* 



198 COOKERY. 



FRIED CAKES 



One quart of milk, half a pound of butter, six eggs, 
and two pounds of sugar; one pound of raisins, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and as much flour as will make 
a stiflf batter. Beat well, and fry in lard ; take up 
the batter by spoonsful, and drop it in the hot lard. 
Each spoonful makes a cake. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

To one pound of flour, put one quarter of a pound 
of butter, one quarter of a pound of sugar, and two 
spoonsful of yeast ; mix them all together in warm 
milk or water, to the thickness of bread ; let it rise, 
and make them in what form you please ; boil your 
lard, and put them in. ^ 

CRULLERS. 

Ten eggs, one pound and a half of sugar, three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, one teacup of milk, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, spice to your taste, and flour 
enough to make soft dough ; let your lard be boiling, 
then make them into what shape you please, and put 
them in. 

ANOTHER. 

Two eggs, two teacups of sugar, two of buttermilk, 
with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it; a piece of 
butter the size of an egg; add enough flour to make 
a soft dough, and a grated nutmeg. Fry in hot lard, 
after rolling and cutting in any shape you prefer. 



COOKERY. 199 



RICE PUFFS. 

Four eggs, two cups of rice, cooked soft, one spoon- 
ful of butter, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful 
of soda, and three spoonsful of flour. Beat the eggs 
separately and very light, leaving the whites to be 
added just before the batter is fried. Have boiling 
lard to fry in ; drop in one spoonful for each puflE", and 
fry them a light brown. Lay them on a napkin to 
drip well before sending to table, but keep them well 
covered, that they may remain hot. 

SODA CAKES. 

Four cups of flour; three of sugar; one of butter; 
one of milk ; five eggs ; one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar ; half a teaspoonful of soda ; nutmeg and fruit 
to the taste. Add the milk just before baking. 

WAFER CAKES. 

Mix together half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
a quarter of a pound of butter ; and add to them six 
eggs well beaten. Then beat the whole very light ; 
stirring into it as much sifted flour as will make a 
stifl" batter; a powdered nutmeg, a teaspoonful of 
cinnamon ; and eight drops of oil of lemon, or a 
tablespoonful of rose-water. The batter must be 
very smooth when it is done, and without a single 
lump. Heat your wafer-iron on both sides by turning 
it in the flre; but do not allow it to get too hot. 
Grease the inside with butter tied in a rag, (this must 
be repeated previous to the baking of every cake) 
and put in the batter, allowing to each wafer two large 
spoonsful. 



200 COOKERY. 

BONIFIADAS OR STICKTS. 

Make a nice soft dough as for biscuit, roll it out 
quite thin, and have ready prepared an equal quantity 
of sugar and butter melted, with enough nutmeg or 
cinnamon to flavor highly. Spread this mixture 
thick enough to cover the dough well, then commence 
at one side and roll it over light, until there are three 
thicknesses of the dough ; cut it through the whole 
length, then cut again into cakes about two inches 
long : lay them in an earthen baking-dish very closely, 
and bake in a pretty quick oven. 

This is a cheap, but a very nice cake. 

LOVE CAKES. 

Mix with twelve eggs, a glass of rose-water ; four 
ounces of bitter almonds finely pounded : sugar suf- 
ficient to make a batter stifi' enough to bake in paper 
boxes. 

ELIZABETH CAKE. 

A cup of butter, three of sugar, one of new milk ; 
four eggs, a teaspoonful of soda : half a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, fotir cups of flour. 

IXDIAX POrXD CAKE. 

Eight eggs ; the weight of eight eggs oi powdered 
sugar ; the weight of six eggs of sifted Indian -meal ; 
half a pound of butter ; one grated nutmeg, or a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon ; stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream ; beat the eggs very light ; stir the meal and 
e?£:s altematelv. into the butter and su2:ar : orrate in 
the nutmeg, and stir all well. Butter a tin pan. put 
in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. 



COOKERY. 201 

CROQUETTES. 

Take a pound of powdered sugar, a pound of but- 
ter, half a pound of wheat flour, and half a pound of 
Indian-meal ; mix all together, and add the juice and 
grated peel of a large lemon, with spice to your taste. 
Make it into a lump of paste ; then put it into a 
mortar, and beat it hard on all sides ; roll it out thin 
and cut it into cakes with the edge of a tumbler, or 
with a tin cutter ; flour a shallow tin pan ; lay the 
cakes into it, but not close together ; bake them about 
ten minutes ; grate sugar over them when done. 

MARGUERITES. 

Beat together till very light, a pound of butter, and 
a pound of powdered sugar ; sift a pound of flour 
into a pan ; take the yolks only, of twelve eggs, and 
beat them till very thick and smooth. Pour them 
into the flour, and add the beaten butter and sugar ; 
stir in a grated nutmeg, and a wine-glass of rose- 
water ; mix the whole together, till it becomes a lump 
of dough ; flour your paste board, and lay the dough 
upon it; sprinkle it with flour; roll it out about half 
an inch thick, and cut it into round cakes with the 
edge of a cup ; flour a shallow pan, put in the cakes 
(so as not to touch), and bake them about five minutes 
in a quick oven. K the oven is too cool, they will 
run. When the cakes are cool, lay on each a large 
lump of currant-jelly : take the whites of the eggs, 
and beat them till they stand alone, then add to them 
by degrees, sutficient powdered sugar to make the 
consistence of icing, and ten drops of strong essence 
of lemon. Heap on each cake, with a spoon, a pile 
of the icing over the currant-jelly ; set them in a cool 
oven till the icing becomes firm and of a pale brownish 
tint. These cakes are very fine. 



202 COOKERY. 



JUMBLES. 

Three eggs, half a pound of flour sifted, half a 
pound of butter, half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, 
a tablespoonful of rose-water, a nutmeg grated, a tea- 
spoonful of mace and cinnamon ; stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, beat the eggs very light, and throw 
them all at once into the pan of flour ; then put in 
the butter and sugar, and add the spice and rose- 
water. If you have no rose-water, six or seven drops 
of strong essence of lemon will answer, or more if 
the essence be weak : stir the whole very hard, and 
flour your hands well : take up with your knife a 
portion of the dough, and lay it on the board ; roll it 
lightly with your hands into long thin rolls, which 
must be cut into equal lengths, curled up into rings, 
and laid gently into an iron or tin pan, buttered, not 
too close to each other, as they spread in baking. 
Bake them in a quick oven about five minutes, and 
grate loaf-sugar over them when cool. 

PLAIN JUMBLES. 

Rub eight ounces of butter, and twelve of sugar to 
a cream ; mix it with a pound of flour, adding a little 
rose-water. 

MACAROONS. 

Blanch and pound, with a little rose-water, a pound 
of sweet almonds ; beat to a froth the whites of seven 
eggs, add to them a pound of sugar. Drop them on 
white paper with a spoon, and bake on tin plates, in 
a slow oven. Let them get cold before taking oft" the 
paper. 



COOKERY. 203 



KISSES. 



One pound of the best loaf-sugar, powdered and 
sifted. The whites of four eggs. Twelve drops of 
essence of lemon. A teacup of currant-jelly. Beat 
the whites of four eggs till they stand alone. Then 
beat in, gradually, the sugar, a teaspoonful at a time. 
Add the essence of lemon, and beat the whole very 
hard. 

Lay a wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a square 
tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distances, a little of the 
beaten egg and sugar, and then add on each, a small 
teaspoonful of stiff" currant-jelly. Then with a large 
spoon, pile some of the beaten egg and sugar on each 
lump of jelly, so as to cover it entirely. Drop on the 
mixture as evenly as possible, so as to make the kisses 
of a round smooth shape. 

Set them in a cool oven, and as soon as they are 
colored, they are done. Then take them out and 
place them two bottoms together. Lay them lightly 
on a sieve, and dry them in a cool oven, till the two 
bottoms stick fast together, so as to form one ball or 
oval. 

ICEING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the whites of four eggs ; then add gradually 
about a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar well pul- 
verized, beating it about half an hour ; thin it with a 
little rose-water, if too thick to run. The cake should 
be almost cold before iceing. Set it in a cool oven to 
dry. 



204 COOKERY. 



PUDDINGS, PIES, &c. 

RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN MAKING PUDDING. 

In boiled puddings take great care that the bag or 
cloth be very clean, and not soapy. It should be 
dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured 
before using. K a bread pudding, it should be 
tied loose ; if a batter pudding, tie it close. The 
water should boil quick when the pudding is put in, 
and it should be moved about for a minute or two, 
lest the ingredients should not mix. Batter puddings 
should be strained through a coarse sieve when all is 
mixed. Where a pudding is baked, the pans and 
basins should be always buttered. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs, 
but they must have as little milk as will mix, and 
must boil three or four hours. A spoonful or two 
of yeast will answer instead of eggs. 

RICE PUDDING, NO. I. 

One quart of milk, four ounces of rice, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, four teaspoonsful of rose-water, 
eight eggs, and half a nutmeg. Boil the rice and 
cinnamon with the milk, and stir often to keep it 
from burning; after it is boiled and cooled, add the 
nutmeg and other spices, &c. Having beaten the 
eggs well, cover a deep dish with pufi" paste, and pour 
the composition in. Bake one hour and a half. Serve 
with butter and sugar sauce. 



COOKERY. 205 

RICE PUDDING, NO. II. 

Six pounds of rice, one quart of milk, one pound 
of butter, half a pound of raisins, sugar and spices to 
the taste. Boil the rice in the milk over a slow fire, 
until tender ; then stir in the butter, and let it cool ; 
beat the eggs well, and after the rice cools, put all 
together, and bake as No. 1. 

RICE PUDDING, NO. III. 

Eight spoonsful of rice, eight eggs, two quarts of 
milk, six ounces of butter, one pound of raisins, one 
nutmeg, and sugar and cinnamon to the taste. Boil 
the rice until soft ; then add the milk and let it cool ; 
beat the sugar with the eggs, and mix all well to- 
gether. 

RICE PUDDING, NO. IV. 

Two quarts of milk, half a pound of rice, half a 
pound of raisins, one teaspoouful of cinnamon ; but- 
ter and sugar to the taste. 

CAROLINA RICE PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of rice ; wash it clean ; put it 
into a saucepan, with a quart of milk ; keep stirring 
it till it is very thick ; take great care it does not 
burn ; then turn it into a pan, and grate some nutmeg 
into it; add two teaspoonsful of beaten cinnamon 
and a little lemon-peel made fine. Mix all together 
with the yolk of three eggs, and sweeten to your 
taste. Then tie it up close in a cloth; put it into 
boiling water, and be sure to keep it boiling all the 
time. An hour and a quarter will be sufficient. Melt 
butter and pour over it, and throw some fine sugar 
all over it. A little wine in the sauce will be a great 
addition to it. 
18 



206 COOKERY. 



HOMINY PUDDING. 

An excellent pudding may be made as follows : — 
Take half a pint of fine hominy, soak it one night; 
in the morning boil it two hours, and then proceed 
the same as in making a rice pudding ; the addition 
of an egg or two improves it. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING, NO. I. 

Take four ears of green corn ; boil them until half 
done ; cut off the corn as fine as convenient ; mix it 
with two spoonsful of wheat flour, one pint of sweet 
milk, salt and pepper to season. Bake it weU. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING, NO. II. 

Grate sweet green corn, and to three cups of it add 
two quarts of milk, eight eggs, a grated nutmeg, two 
teaspoonsful of salt, and six ounces of drawn butter. 
Bake one hour. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING, NO. III. 

Cut the corn from the cob, and pound it fine. To 
four dozen ears add a pint of milk, and half a pound 
of sugar. Mix, and bake about two hours, till the 
crust is a dark brown. Eat with butter, to which 
some add a little pepper. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING, NO. I. 

One quart of milk, five large tablespoonsful of 
Indian-meal, four eggs, nutmeg and sugar to the 
taste. Boil the milk; scald the meal in it; then let 
it cool before you add the eggs. Bake three-quarters 
of an hour, in a moderate oven. 



COOKERY. 207 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING, NO. II. 

Boil one quart of milk; mix with it, perfectly- 
smooth, two gills and a half of Indian-meal ; then add 
seven eggs, well-beaten, a gill of molasses, a spoonful 
of butter. Bake two hours, in a moderate oven. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING, NO. III. 

Take one quart of corn meal, two quarts of warm 
milk, about blood-heat, two teaspoonsful of salt, one 
teacup of molasses, or four tablespoonsful of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of chopped suet, and half a grated 
nutmeg. Bake this mixture in a pan two hours. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING, NO. IV. 

Take fourteen tablespoonsful of Indian-meal, two 
quarts of boiling milk, two teaspoonsful of salt, and 
half a tablespoonful of chopped suet. A richer pud- 
ding is made by substituting for the fourteen table- 
spoonsful of Indian-meal, seven eggs and only seven 
tablespoonsful of meal. 

The sauce may consist of one pint of water, four 
tablespoonsful of sugar, butter the size of half an egg, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
flour, and a quarter of a nutmeg. It should be boiled 
three or four minutes. 

RICH INDIAN PUDDING — BAKED. 

Boil a quart of milk, add a pint of fine Indian-meal. 
Stir it well. Mix three tablespoonsful of wheat flour 
with a pint of milk, so as to have it free from lumps. 
Mix this with the meal, and stir the whole well to- 
gether. When the whole is moderately warm, stir in 
three eggs well beat, with three spoonsful of sugar. 
Add two teaspoonsful of salt, two of ground ciuna- 



208 COOKERY. 

mou, or grated nutmegs, and two tablespoonsful of 
melted butter. When the pudding has baked five or 
six minutes, stir in half a pound of raisins, seeded; 
and add half a pint of milk for them, as they will 
otherwise render it too dry. Bake three or four hours. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING, NO. I. 

Make a stiff batter, by stirring Indian-meal into a 
quart of boiling milk or water. Then stir in two 
tablespoonsful of flour, three of sugar, half a spoonful 
of ginger, or two teaspoonsful of cinnamon, and two 
teaspoonsful of salt, two tablespoonsful of fine chopped 
suet. Such puddings require a long boiling, say 
seven or eight hours. They require good sauce for 
eating. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING, NO. II. 

One teacup of molasses, a piece of suet the size of 
two eggs, chopped fine, eight spoonsful of meal. 
Scald the meal with boiling water or milk; mix it 
quite thin ; when it is nearly cold, add four eggs, 
well beaten. It requires three hours' boiling, in a 
strong cloth. 

LEMON PUDDING, NO. I. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, one 
lemon, five eggs, a wineglass of rose-water, the same 
of orange-flower water. Beat the rose-water and but- 
ter to a froth ; prepare the sugar and eggs as for a 
pound-cake ; grate the yellow part of the lemon-rind 
in. Have a nice pufl" paste ready in your dish ; and 
after mixing your pudding well together, put it into 
the paste. Bake in a moderate oven. Orange pud- 
ding is made in the same way, using a pounded 
orange instead of a lemon. 



COOKERY. 209 



LEMON PUDDING, NO. II. 

Three lemons, eight eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
one wine-glass of rose or orange water, four ounces of 
Naples' biscuit, one quart of milk or cream, one 
pound of fresh butter. Cut the rinds of the lemons ; 
boil them tender in water; then pound them in a 
mortar. Boil up the biscuit in the milk, beat the 
eggs and sugar together, and mix all well together. 
Stir it over the fire till quite thick, squeeze in the 
juice of a large lemon, put puff paste over the dish, 
then pour in the pudding. Cut candied sweetmeats 
and strew over the top. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Beat up four eggs, and mix with them, by degrees, 
four spoonsful of flour ; beat it to a smooth paste, and 
add a pint of new milk and a little salt. Put it into 
a shallow square tin, under roast meat. It should 
not be put down until the meat is warmed through, 
and begins to drip. The tin should be very warm 
when the pudding is put in, to keep the floury part 
from settling. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Grate the yellow part of a smooth, deep-colored 
orange, and of a lime, into a saucer, and squeeze in 
their juice, taking out the seeds. Stir four ounces of 
butter, and four of powdered sugar, to a cream. Beat 
three eggs as light as possible, and stir them gradu- 
ally into the pan of butter and sugar ; add gradually 
a spoonful of brandy and wine, and a teaspoonful of 
rose-water; then the orange and lime all together. 
Have prepared a sheet of puff" paste, made of five 
18* 



210 COOKERY. 

ounces of flour and four ounces of fresh butter ; 
spread the sheet in a pudding-pan, trim and notch 
the edges, and then turn in the mixture. Bake it 
about thirty minutes, in a moderate oven. Grate 
loaf-sugar over it. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Six gills of wheat or rye flour, two gills of milk, 
half a nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of salt. When the 
milk boils, turn in the other ingredients : let the 
whole boil for one minute, stirring it constantly; 
then move it from the fire, and on its becoming luke- 
warm, add three beaten eggs. Set it on the fire again, 
stir constantly till it thickens, and remove it as soon 
as it boils. 

TURKEY PUDDING. 

Mince thirty small onions, and mES them -^-ith an 
equal quantity of bread crumbs that have been soaked 
in milk. Chop an equal quantity of the flesh of cold 
turkey ; mix all together, and pound it very well in 
a mortar. Pass it through a colander, and then re- 
turn it to the mortar and beat it again, adding gradu- 
ally the yolks of six hard eggs, and a pint of cream, 
or half a pound of butter ; season it to your taste with 
salt, mace and nutmeg. Have ready some skins, 
nicely cleaned as for sausages ; fill the skins with the 
mixture, and tie up the ends. Then simmer your 
puddings, but do not let them boil. Take them out, 
drain them, and put them away to get cold. "Wlien 
you wish to cook them for immediate use, prick them 
with a fork, wrap them in buttered paper, and broil 
them on a gridiron. 



COOKERY. 211 



MUFFIN OR CABINET PUDDING. 

Cut three or four muffins in two ; pour over them 
boiling milk sufficient to cover them ; let them remain 
in it until they are tender. Make a rich custard with 
eight eggs (leaving out four whites), a pint of cream, 
a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, an ounce of 
almonds blanched and cut, lemon-peel and nutmeg 
grated, and a glass of brandy. Butter a tin mold, for 
boiling — or, for baking, a dish. Put in a layer of 
dried cherries, green gages, apricots, or French plums ; 
cover with custard, add more fruit, then custard, until 
the mold or dish is full. Boil an hour and a half, and 
serve with wine sauce. The mold should not float in 
the water, but stand in a stew-pan, with only water 
enough to reach half-way up it. Baking will not take 
so long. Lay a putf paste round the edges of the 
dish. 

SWISS PUDDING. 

Put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced apples, 
with sugar between, until the dish is full ; let crumbs 
be the uppermost layer ; then pour milk over it, and 
bake. 

OXFORD PUDDING. 

Take a quarter of a pound of grated biscuit, the 
same quantity of currants, the same of suet finely 
chopped, a spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg ; 
mix them all together. Add the yolks of three 
eggs, and make up the pudding into balls. Fry 
them a light color, in fresh butter ; and serve with 
white wine sauce. 



212 COOKERY. 

FRENCH AND ITALIAN PUDDING. 

These puddings are composed of sliced rolls, eggs, 
and cream. Five or six eggs to a pint of cream, and 
as much roll as will thicken it; sweeten with loaf- 
sugar. A pound of suet chopped fine may be added 
or not. Line the dish with puff-paste ; lay at the 
bottom six or eight apples cut up, a pound of raisins 
stoned, a few dates sliced, some candied orange-peel, 
sugar, and spice. Pour the pudding over this, grate 
nutmeg on the top, and bake to a delicate brown. 

A CHEESE PUDDING. 

Haifa pound of cheese grated, two ounces of butter, 
four eggs, a little cayenne, and nutmeg. Butter a 
dish, and bake twenty minutes. 

A VERY RICH PUDDING OF PRIME RIPE FRUIT. 

This is made sometimes by pressing the fruit 
through a sieve, if apricots, green gages, or peaches. 
Sweet, juicy apples, or rich mellow pears may be 
grated; or the fruit may be scalded a few minutes 
in white wine, then the skins and stones removed 
and beaten in a mortar. When cold mix with rich 
custard, cream, eggs, and bread-crumbs or Naples 
biscuit, with loaf-sugar to the taste, and a glass of 
brandy or Sherry wine. Bake in a dish edged with 
puff-paste. For these puddings the tinctures are pre- 
ferable to the spices. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil one pound of sweet potatoes very tender, rub 
them while hot through a colander; add six eggs 
well beaten, three quarters of a pound of powdered 



COOKERY. 213 

sugar, three quarters of a pound of butter, and some 
nutmeg and lemon-peel, with a glass of brandy ; put 
a paste in the dish, and when the pudding is done 
sprinkle the top. 

POTATO PUDDING, NO. I. 

Twelve ounces of baked potatoes skinned and 
mashed, one ounce of suet, one ounce of cheese grated 
fine, one gill of sweet milk. Mix the potatoes, suet, 
and cheese all together, and if too thick, add a little 
water. Bake in an earthen pan. 

POTATO PUDDING, NO. II. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, beat to 
a cream ; one pound of potatoes, boiled and passed 
through the colander, eight eggs, one glass of brandy, 
one of wine, half a glass of rose-water, and one tea- 
spoonful of spice. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 

One pound of blanched almonds, six eggs, eight 
ounces of sugar, one pint of cream, a half-glass of 
rose-water. Bake in a moderate oven. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

Six cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of butter, two cups of butter-milk, 
with a teaspoonful of soda for each cup of milk, four 
eggs, and ginger to the taste. 

CITRON PUDDING. 

One pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of 
butter, creamed, the beaten yolks of ten eggs, one 
spoonful of flour, two teaspoonsful of vinegar, and 
citron to the taste. 



214 COOKERY. 



MOLASSES PUDDING. 

One cnp of butter, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of ginger. Bake in a moderate o%-en. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Take a quart of milk, and stir into it gradually 
eight tablespoonsful of flour, carefully pressing out 
all the lumps with a spoon. Beat eight eggs very 
light, and add them by degrees to the milk and flour. 

BOILED PUDDING. 

Five eggs, half a pint of milk, half a tea-cup of 
butter or lard, same of sugar ; put flour in until it is 
a stift" batter ; rub into the batter (through a sieve,) 
either green or dry fruit ; put into a bag and boil tv\'o 
hours — the water must be kept boiling hot. Sauce 
of butter and sugar. 

COCOANUT PUDDIXG, NO. I. 

After peeling the cocoanut, grate it, and to a pound 
of cocoanut add half a pound of butter, six table- 
spoonsful of white sugar, and the whites of a dozen 
eggs, well beaten. Flavor with lemon and nutmeg. 
Bake on a rich pastry-crust, in a slow oven. 

COCOANUT PUDDING, NO. II. 

"Weigh three quarters of a pound of cocoanut, and 
grate it in a dish ; cut up half a pound of butter in 
half a pound of white sugar, and stir them together 
to a cream ; add to them a glass of wine and rose- 
water mixed: beat the whites of twelve esrsrs until 



COOKERY. 215 

they stand alone on the rods, and stir the grated 
cocoanut and the whites of the eggs alternately into 
the butter and sugar. Bake it in pufl-paste. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, one coffee-cup of 
tapioca, one half-cup of butter. Beat up the eggs 
■with sugar, to the taste, and add a few drops of essence 
of lemon. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN BAKED PUDDING. 

Two eggs well beaten ; a cup of powdered white 
sugar ; a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup of 
sweet milk ; two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar 
mixed through three cups of fl^our; and a table- 
spoonful of lard or butter. Bake quickly, and serve 
with sugar, butter, and wine sauce. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Eight eggs, eight ounces of butter, eight ounces of 
sugar. Beat up the eggs, put them in a stew-pan 
with the sugar and butter, season with nutmeg. Set 
it on a stove or fire of coals, stirring it constantly, 
until it thickens, then pour it in a basin to cool. 
Line your dish with a rich paste, pour your pudding 
in, and bake in a moderate oven. 

CHESHIRE PUDDING. 

One pound of raspberry jam, four ounces of butter, 
one tablespoonful of soda, one cup of cream or butter- 
milk, one half-pound of flour. 

Rub half of the butter into the flour, warm the milk, 
rub the soda fine and pour it into the milk, and while 
it is effervescing pour it into the butter. 



216 COOKERY. 



APPLE PUDDING. 

Take twelve large pippins, pare thera and take out 
the cores, put them into a saucepan with four or five 
spoonsful of water, boil them till they are soft and 
thick, then beat them well ; stir in a pound of loaf- 
sugar, the juice of three lemons cut thin and beat fine 
in a mortar, the yolks of eight eggs beaten ; mix all 
well together ; bake it in a slack oven ; when it is near 
done throw over a little fine sugar: you may bake it 
in a puff-paste as you do other puddings. 



VIRGINIA CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Beat ten eggs very light, add to them a quart of rich 
milk ; four ounces of drawn butter ; pepper and salt to 
the taste ; stir in sufficient flour to make a thin batter; 
— Take four young chickens (clean them nicely and 
cut ofiT the legs, wings, &c.,) put them in a sauce-pan, 
with salt and water ; and a bundle of thyme and pars- 
ley. Boil them until nearly done, then take out the 
chickens and put them in the batter, in a deep dish 
and bake it. Serve with white gravy sauce. 



PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, beat 
to a cream ; one pound of pumpkin stewed and passed 
through the colander; four eggs, one wine-glass of 
brandy, wine, and rose-water, and one teaspoonful of 
spice. 



COOKEKY. 217 



CARROT PUDDING. 



Grate half a pound of carrots, one pound of bread, 
the whites of eight eggs, half a pound of butter, half 
a pint of cream or milk, half a pint of wine and 
rose-water, and spice and sweeten to taste. Lay a 
puff paste over the dish. Bake one hour, and sift 
sugar over it. 

BATH PUDDING. 

Take one pint of new milk, six eggs beat well in 
the milk, four tablespoonsful of fine flour, three table- 
spoonsful of yeast, three spoonsful of rose-water, and 
three spoonsful of Malaga wine ; grate into it a small 
nutmeg ; sweeten with fine sugar to your taste ; mix 
them all well together, and let them stand one hour 
before they are to be baked : bake them in eight small 
patty-pans, and one large one for the middle of the 
dish: butter the patty-pans; put them in a hot 
oven, and in fifteen minutes they will be done. 

QUAKING PUDDING. 

Take a pint of good cream, six eggs, and half the 
whites ; beat them well, and mix with the cream ; 
grate in a small nutmeg ; add a little rose-water if it 
be desired ; grate in the crust of a small loaf of bread, 
or add a spoonful or two of flour first mixed with a 
little of the cream, or a spoonful of the flour of rice, 
which you please; batter a cloth well and flour it; 
then put in your mixtures ; tie it not too close, and 
boil it half an hour : be sure the water boils before 
you put it in. 
19 



218 COOKERY. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

Take the crumbs of a small loaf of bread, and as 
much flour ; the yolks of four eggs and two whites, 
a teaspoonful of ginger; half a pound of raisins, 
seeded ; half a pound of currants, clean washed and 
picked, and a little salt ; mix first the bread and flour, 
ginger, salt, and sugar to your taste ; then the eggs, 
and as much milk as will make it like a good batter; 
butter the dish ; pour it in, and bake it. 



RICH BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Cut a pound loaf of good bread into thin slices; 
spread them with butter as for eating ; lay them in a 
pudding dish ; sprinkle between each layer of bread 
seeded raisins, and citron cut fine ; beat eight egg& 
with four tablespoon sful of rolled sugar; mix them 
with three pints of milk, and half a grated nutmeg. 
Turn the whole on the bread in the pan, and let it 
remain till the bread has taken up full half the milk; 
then bake about three quarters of an hour. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs very light ; add one pmt of milk, 
one quart of flour, and three-quarters of a pound of 
butter; cut and stone half a pound of raisins, and 
mix them in the batter with half a nutmeg grated ; 
wet the cloth, and tie it tight; put the pudding in 
when the water boils, and shake it a minute or two 
to keep the raisins from settling. Boil two hours. 



COOKERY. 219 



NORFOLK PUDDING. 

Make a thick batter, as you would for pancakes ; 
take half a pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt, and 
make it into a batter with flour ; have ready a clean 
saucepan of water boiling, into which drop the batter. 
Be sure the water boils fast, and two or three minutes 
will boil them ; then throw them into a sieve or colan- 
der to drain the water away ; then turn them into a 
dish, and stir a lump of fresh butter into them; eat 
them hot, and they are very good. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, six eggs, six spoonsful of flour. 
Boil the milk, and while boiling stir in the flour; set 
it to cool' half an hour before it is used ; Beat up the 
eggs nicely, and then stir in the other ingredients. 
Bake in a moderate oven about 25 minutes. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Two quarts of milk, twelve eggs, twelve ounces of 
sugar, one nutmeg. Bake in pans. 

PLAIN CUSTARDS. 

A quart of rich milk, eight eggs, a quarter of a 
pound of powdered sugar, a handful of peach leaves, 
or half an ounce of peach kernels broken fine, and a 
nutmeg. Boil the peach leaves or kernels in the milk, 
and set it away to cool. When cold, strain out the 
leaves or kernels, and stir in the sugar. Beat the eggs 
very light, and stir them gradually into the milk when 
it is quite cold. Bake it in cups, or in a large white 
dish. "When cool, grate nutmeg over the top. 



220 COOKERY. 



CUP CUSTARD. 

To every teacup of milk add one egg ; one table- 
spoonful of sugar ; flavor with lemon, and eat cold. 
Eight eggs will fill a dozen glasses. 

RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Make a pufi" paste, and roll it out ; spread the rasp- 
berry jam, and make it into dumplings ; boil them an 
hour ; pour melted butter into a dish, and strew grated 
sugar over them. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a short crust, and divide into small pieces, 
made thin and round ; have ready pared and cored as 
many apples as you wish to make into dumplings, 
allowing one apple to each. After putting in the 
apple, fill up the cavity from whence the core was 
taken, with sugar, butter, and a little cinnamon ; close 
up the crust to make it round and smooth ; lay them 
in a deep baking-dish, which you will fill nearly full 
of a rich sauce, made of water, sugar, butter, and 
cinnamon. Bake in a moderate oven, and have 
enough syrup to keep the dumplings well covered, 
and to allow a spoonful to pour over each one when 
they are served at dinner. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Take a good puff paste ; pare some large apples ; 
cut them into quarters, and take out the cores very 
nicely ; take a piece of crust and roll it large enough 
for one apple ; roll the crust round each apple, and 
make them round like a ball, with a little flour in 



COOKERY. 221 

your hand ; have a pot of water boiling ; take a clean, 
cloth, dip it in the water, and shake flour over it ; tie 
each dumpling by itself, and put them in the water 
boiling all the time ; and if your crust is light and 
good, and the apples not too large, half an hour will 
boil them ; but if the apples are large, they will take 
an hour boiling. When they are boiled enough, take 
them up and lay them in a dish and send them to the 
table ; have good fresh butter melted with sugar, 
mixed for sauce. 



RISSOLES. 

Make some puff paste, and cut it out with the edge 
of a tumbler ; have ready some seasoned minced veal, 
or some chopped oysters, or any kind of forcemeat, 
and lay some of it on one-half of each piece of paste ; 
then turn over it the other half, so as to enclose the 
meat ; crimp the edges ; put some butter into a fry- 
ing-pan ; lay the rissoles into it, and fry them a light 
brown. They should be in the shape of a half-moon. 



VEAL PIE. 

Cut into steaks, a loin or breast of veal ; season 
them highly, with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, 
and lemon-peel ; lay them in the bottom of a dish, 
and then a few slices of sweet-breads; add some 
oysters, a tablespoonful of lemon-pickle, forcemeat 
balls, hard-boiled eggs, and a half-pint of white stock. 
Put puff paste on a dish, and put the pie on it ; cover 
with puff paste, and bake one hour in a slow oven. 
19* 



222 COOKERY. 



MUTTON PIE. 

Cut the mutton into slices, without bone ; season 
highly, and stew it with some fat, cut into slices also. 
It is not necessary to add any water. When tender, 
take it from the fire, and allow it to remain in the 
oven until cold ; remove all the grease and fat very 
carefully ; have some gravy made from the bones ; 
add to it strained gravy from the mutton, and a glass 
of port-wine. A minced shallot and button onions 
are a good addition ; and if the latter be pickled, their 
acidity will be an improvement. Put it into a dish or 
small patty-pans, using puif paste. These pies are 
better hot than cold. The underdone part of a leg 
of mutton may be thus dressed, but the loin and kid- 
ney are better suited for the purpose. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Choose steak that has long been hung ; cut it into 
moderately sized pieces, and trim off all the skin and 
sinews; season them with pepper, salt, and minced 
shallot or onion ; lay them in a dish, which should 
have a nice crust in it ; put in enough water and 
butter to make a nice gravy ; cover it with a thick 
crust, and bake it an hour with moderate heat. 

LOBSTER PIE. 

Having boiled the lobster, take out the meat from 
the shell, season it with salt, mustard, cayenne pep- 
per, and vinegar, and beat it well in a mortar. Then 
stir in a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of 
two beaten eggs, and two ounces or more of grated 
bread crumbs. Make some puff paste, put in the 
mixture, and cover it with a lid of paste ornamented 
with leaves or flowers of the same. Bake it slowly. 



COOKERY. 223 



SWEET POTATO CUSTARD PIE. 

To one pound of potatoes, baked and sifted, add 
half a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, one pint of milk, and six eggs ; flavor with 
nutmeg, cinnamon, and a wine-glass of brandy. Line 
your dish with a nice pastry-crust, and bake with mo- 
derate heat. 

POTATO CUSTARD PIE. 

To one pound of potatoes, (mashed and strained), 
add three quarters of a pound of butter, twelve eggs 
beaten separately ; one quart of sweet milk ; and one 
pound of sugar. Flavor with nutmeg and cinnamon. 

GREEN APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Peel and core your apples, stew them quickly in 
enough water to prevent them from burning. When 
done, mash and strain them, and to a quart of fruit 
add four eggs well beaten, one pint of sweet milk, 
four ounces of melted butter, a nutmeg, a teaspoonful 
of lemon-juice, and a half-pound of light sugar. Let 
your apples cool before you add the eggs, &c. Bake 
in rich pastry crusts. 

DRIED APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

After stewing your apples in water until perfectly 
done, strain them, and sweeten to your taste ; then 
put it into pastry crusts in deep shapes or plates ; also 
have prepared the following mixture : — For a quart 
of apples, four eggs, one pint of sweet milk, half a 
pound of sugar, one spoonful of melted butter, a nut- 
meg, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Pour it on 



224 COOKERY. 

the tops of your custards thick enough to cover them 
well. Beat the mixture well before putting it on the 
apples. Bake in a moderate oven. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE, NO. I. 

Take the weight of ten eggs in sugar, the same of 
stewed apples, half the weight of butter ; use only 
half the eggs, and season with nutmeg. The same 
receipt is equally good for potatoes. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE, NO. II. 

Four sweet apples grated, three pints of milk, two 
eggs, sugar to the taste, and flavor with nutmeg or 
lemon. Bake with two crusts. 

LEMON PIE. 

Take one lemon, slice it very thin, lay it in a rich 
paste, sprinkle over it one spoonful of flour, one tea- 
cup of sugar. Fill the pie nearly full of water, and 
cover. Bake in a slow oven nearly an hour. 

RED SUGAR-BEET PIE. 

Pies made of red sugar-beet are delicious, some- 
what resembling rhubarb pie in flavor, though more 
rich and substantial. Season with vinegar, sugar, 
and spices to suit the taste; the root may be used 
without boiling if chopped fine, though I would 
recommend boiling first. Bake as you would an 
apple pie. 

MINCE PIE. 

Take beef tongue, weighing about three pounds, 
cut off the root, wash it perfectly clean, and boil it 
till it becomes tender ; skin it, and when cold, chop 
it very finely. Or, if preferred, three pounds of the 



COOKERY. 225 

inside of a sirloin of beef, boiled till it becomes 
tender, and chopped finely as the other. Mince, as 
small as possible, two pounds of fresh beef suet ; two 
pounds of currants, nicely picked, washed, rubbed, 
and dried at the fire ; two dozen large apples, pared 
and chopped very fine ; one pound of good brown 
sugar ; sift half an ounce of mace, and a quarter of 
an ounce of cloves ; grate in two nutmegs. The 
grated rind and juice of a large lemon may be added, 
with a little citron. Put all together into a large 
pan, and mix it well together with half a pint of good 
French brandy, and if not moist enough, good sweet 
cider maybe added. Put it down close into ajar, 
covered closely, and it will be good four months. 
When you make your pies, take small round dishes, 
or soup-plates ; lay a thin crust all over them, put in 
your meat, lay over the crust, and bake them nicely. 
J£ the meat is not to be used immediately, the apples 
had better not be put in until wanted. 

PUMPKIN PIE, NO. I. 

Take one quart of stewed and strained pumpkin ; 
add one quart of new milk, half a pint of cream, and 
four eggs well beaten. Mix, and add a little ginger, 
cinnamon, and sugar, to the taste. Put a bottom 
crust of puff paste, and bake in deep dishes. 

PUMPKIN PIE, NO. II. 

To one quart of stewed and strained pumpkin, add 
one quart of new milk, and sweeten to the taste. For 
the crust, take wheat flour; wet with buttermilk to a 
euflS.cient stiffness to roll out. Bake it in deep dishes. 



226 COOKERY. 

PUMPKIN PIE, NO. III. 

Take a brown earthen pan, grease it, and sift 
Indian-meal over it, about the thickness of a quarter 
of an inch. Prepare the pumpkin in good new milk, 
sweeten to the taste, and add a little ground rice 
instead of eggs, with a little ginger. Bake as above. 

APPLE PIE. 

Make a good puff paste crust ; lay some around 
the sides and bottom of the dish ; pare and cut your 
apples, and stew them ; put in a thick layer of apples ; 
throw in half the sugar you design for your pie ; 
make a little orange-peel fine ; squeeze and throw 
over them a little of the orange-juice, then a few 
cloves, then the rest of your ajDples and sugar. 
Sweeten to your taste. Boil the peelings and cores 
of the apples, with a blade of mace. Strain it, and 
boil the syrup with a little sugar, till there is but 
very little left. Pour it into the pie, put on the 
upper crust, and bake it. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

"Wash and stew a quart of good sound cranberries ; 
strain them through a coarse sieve ; add half a pound 
of good sugar. Put a bottom crust in your patty- 
pans, fill them up, and bake in a moderate oven for 

half an hour. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Cut the stalks to pieces of the size of a gooseberry, 
stew them a little in a sauce-pan, put them into a 
dish covered with a crust ; squeeze over them a little 
lemon-juice, adding orange-peel, sugar, rose-water, 
and cinnamon to your taste ; cover the whole with a 
good puft" paste, and bake it. 



COOKERY. 227 

SWEET-POTATO PIE. 

Select four or five of the largest potatoes ; wash 
them clean ; slice them thin, and put in a pan with a 
pufi' paste crust, first a layer of potatoes; then season 
with allspice, cinnamon, sugar, and butter, and so 
fill up the pan, observing to put a little of the season- 
ing between each layer as you fill up; one good 
sized lemon may be cut and sliced thin, and added 
between each layer of the potatoes. A sufficient 
quantity of water must be added, so that the pie may 
be moist after it is baked. Cover the top with a 
puff paste, and bake in an oven. 

TOMATO PIE. 

The tomatoes are skinned and sliced, and after 
being mixed with sugar, are spiced and prepared in 
the same manner as other pies. 

BLANC MANGE. 

Simmer an ounce of fine isinglass in a pint and a 
half of new milk ; add the rind of half a lemon ; 
shred very fine a blade or two of mace and a stick of 
cinnamon, and sweeten with two ounces and a half 
of loaf-sugar. Blanch and pound with a spoonful of 
rose-water, half an ounce of sweet almonds, and eight 
or ten of bitter ; put to the milk, and mix. When 
the isinglass is quite dissolved, strain through white 
flannel into half a pint of rich cream, and stir toge- 
ther well. When it has stood an hour, pour it off into 
another basin, leaving the sediments at the bottom, 
and when nearly cold, pour it into molds, jelly- 
glasses, or custard-cups. Two spoonsful of noyeau 
will answer the purpose of the almonds. The isin- 
glass may be dissolved in a pint of water, and half a 
pint of milk. 



228 COOKERY. 

QUINCE BLANC MANGE. 

Dissolve one ounce of clarified isinglass in a pint 
of quince juice ; add ten ounces of coarsely-powdered 
sugar, and stir gently over a clear fire about twenty- 
five minutes, or until it jellies on falling from the 
spoon. Skim well ; then gradually pour the boiling 
jelly to a pint of cream, briskly stirring it until 
almost cold. Turn it into molds which have been 
dipped in cold water. 

ARROW-ROOT BLANC MANGE, NO. I. 

Take a teacupful of arrow-root, put it in a large 
bowl, and dissolve it in a little cold water. When it 
is melted, pour off" the water, and let the arrow-root 
remain undisturbed. Boil it in half a pint of un- 
skimmed milk, made very sweet with wdiite sugar ; 
add a beaten nutmeg, and eight or nine blades of 
mace, mixed with the juice and grated peel of a 
lemon. When it has boiled long enough to be 
highly-flavored, strain it into a pint and a half of very 
rich milk or cream, and add a quarter of a pound of 
sugar. Boil the whole for ten minutes ; then strain 
it, boiling hot, over the arrow-root. Stir it well, and 
frequently, till cold ; then put it into molds, and let 
it congeal. 

ARROW-ROOT BLANC MANGE, NO. IT. 

Put two teacupsful of arrow-root to a quart of milk. 
Flavor it with an ounce of sweet almonds, and fifteen 
or sixteen bitter almonds, blanched and pounded ; or 
with noyeau. Moisten the arrow-root with a little 
cold milk, and pour in it the boiling milk, stirring all 
the time. Then put it in the saucepan, and boil a 
minute or two, still stirring. 



COOKERY. 229 



CARRAGEEN BLANC MANGE. 

This is made of a sea-weed, resembling moss. It 
is found in large quantities on some parts of our 
coast, and is sold by city druggists. Carrageen costs 
but little, and is considered extremely salutary for 
persons of delicate constitutions. Its glutinous na- 
ture, when boiled, renders it very suitable for blanc 
mange. 

From a quart of rich unskimmed milk take half a 
pint. Add to it two ounces of bitter almonds, blanched 
and pounded, half a nutmeg, and a large stick of cin- 
namon broken up ; also eight or nine blades of mace. 
Set it in a closed pan over bright coals, and boil it 
half an hour. In the mean time wash through two 
or three cold waters half a handful of carrageen (too 
much of it will give an unpleasant taste to the blanc 
mange), and add it to the pint and a half of cold milk. 
When it is sufficiently flavored, stir in the boiled 
milk, adding gradually half a pound of powdered 
loaf-sugar, and mix the whole well. Set it over the 
fire, and boil hard five minutes. Then strain it into 
a pitcher, wet your mold or cups with cold water, put 
the blanc mange into them, and leave it undisturbed 
until it congeals. 

After washing the sea-weed, you must drain it well, 
and shake the water from the sprigs. You may flavor 
the mixture (after it is boiled and strained), with rose 
or peach water, stirred in last. 

WHIP SYLLABUB. 

Make a whip as for trifle ; mix with a pint of 
cream, half a pint of sweet wine, the juice of a lemon, 

20 



230 COOKERY. 

a glass of brandy, six ounces of loaf-sugar, and grated 
nutmeg; nearly fill the custard-cups with the mix- 
ture, and put on with a spoon some of the whip. 

GOOSEBERRY OR APPLE FOOL. 

Stew green gooseberries or apples, peeled and 
cored ; add to them a little moist sugar, enough to 
draw the juice ; to two quarts of fruit, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar. When quite tender, put through a 
coarse sieve ; and if not sweet enough, add more 
sugar, and a quart of new milk warm from the cow 
(if not from the cow, warm it by the fire), a teacupful 
of cream, and an egg, or two yolks well beaten. Let 
it thicken in the milk, and be careful it cjoes not boil. 
When cold, mix the fruit, and stir all well together 
till united. 

A FRIAR'S OMELET. 

Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce ; stir in a quarter 
of a pound of butter, and the same of white sugar ; 
when cold, add four eggs, well beaten ; put it into a 
baking-dish, thickly strewn over with crumbs of 
bread, so as to stick to the bottom and sides ; then 
put in the apple-mixture ; strew crumbs of bread over 
the top. When baked, turn it out, and grate loaf- 
sugar over it. 

CREAM FOR FRUIT PIES. 

Simmer a pint of new milk, the rind of a lemon, 
and a little cinnamon ; whisk the yolks of two eggs, 
with half a spoonful of flour, and one or two of 
cream ; gradually add the boiling milk, set it over 
the fire, and whisk it till it is the consistence of thick 
cream. When it is removed from the fire, and rather 
cool, add a tablespoonful of rose or orange water. 



COOKERY. 231 

When quite cold, take off the top of the pie and pour 
in the cream ; return the cover, either whole, or in 
quarters. Rich cream may be prepared, with an 
equal quantity of cream and milk flavored with 
almond, lemon, ratafa, or brandy, and called by the 
name of the article with which it is principally fla- 
vored. Be careful not to let your creams boil, or 
they will curdle. Creams may be prepared with fresh 
or preserved fruits. Luscious fruits may be improved 
by the addition of lemon-juice. 

TRIFLE. 

Mix, in a large bowl, a quarter of a pound of 
sifted sugar, a bit of lemon-peel grated fine, and the 
juice of a whole lemon, half a gill of Lisbon or sweet 
wine, the same of brandy, and a pint and a half of 
good cream. Whisk the whole well, and take off the 
froth as it rises with a skimmer, and put it on a 
sieve ; continue to whisk it till you have enough of 
the whip, and set it in a cold place to drain three or 
four hours. Then put in a dish eight sponge biscuit, 
two ounces of almonds, grated nutmeg, lemon, cur- 
rant-jelly, raspberry-jam, wnne and brandy to the 
taste. Pour over them a pint of custard, and plenty 
of the whip. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Take a quart of the thickest cream you can get, 
make it pretty sweet with fine sugar, pour in a gill of 
sack, grate in it the yellow rind of a lemon, and mill 
the cream till it is of a thick froth: then carefully 
pour the thin from the froth into a dish, take a French 
roll, or as many as you want, cut it as thin as you 



232 COOKERY. 

can, put a layer of that as light as possible on the 
cream ; then a layer of currant-jelly, then a very thin 
layer of roll, and then hartshorn jelly, then French 
roll, and over that whip your froth which you saved 
of the cream, very well milled up, and lay it on top as 
high as you can heap it. 

RICE MILK FOR A DESSERT. 

Boil half a pint of rice in water till tender. Pour 
off the water, and add a pint of milk, with two eggs 
beaten and well stirred into it. Boil all together for 
a few minutes. Serve it up hot, and eat it with but- 
ter, sugar, and nutmeg. It may be sweetened and 
cooled in molds, turned out on a deep dish, and sur- 
rounded with rich milk, seasoned with wine and 
sugar. 

APPLE COMPOTE. 

Take ripe apples, pare, core and weigh them, and 
to each pound allow a pound of fine loaf-sugar and 
two lemons ; parboil the apples, and set them aside 
to cool. Pare ofl:' very nicely, with a pen-knife, the 
yellow rind of the lemon, taking care not to break it, 
and then with scissors trim the edges to an even 
width all along. Put the lemon-rind to boil by itself 
until it becomes tender, and set it to cool. 

Allow half a pint of water to each pound of sugar, 
and when it is melted, set it on the fire in a preserv- 
ing-kettle, put in the apples, and boil till they are 
clear and tender all through, but do not allow them 
to break. Skim the syrup carefully, after you have 
taken out the apples, add the lemon-juice, put in the 
lemon-peel, and boil till quite transparent. 



COOKERY. 233 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick the currants, put them in a stone jar, and place 
it to stew in a sauce-pan of boiling water till the 
juice is extracted. Strain through a sieve without 
pressing them, and boil the juice in an enamelled 
sauce-pan with its weight of loaf-sugar, removing the 
scum as it rises. When it will jelly on the back of a 
cold spoon, it is sufficiently done. A little of the jelly 
dissolved in warm water forms an agreeable beverage. 

CALVES' FEET JELLY. 

Boil down one set of calves' feet in four quarts of 
water, till it is reduced one-half, then strain through a 
sieve in order to remove the bones ; when settled and 
cold, take off the grease on the surface, then boil with 
the following additions: — twelve eggs, three-pints of 
good Sherry wine, add two pounds of loaf-sugar, the 
juice of four lemons; stir the mixture well with a 
whisk, and filter through a fine flannel bag. Jellies 
of Champagne and other wines are made in the same 
way. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

Is made the same as the preceding, using, instead 
of Sherry wine, a decoction of coffee prepared as 
follows: — infuse half a pound of Mocha coffee, pul- 
verised or ground, in one quart of water, strain off' the 
decoction, and add to it a little brandy. 
20* 



234 COOKERY. 

TEA JELLY, GREEN OR BLACK. 
Treat in the same way as the foregoing, using an 
infusion of half an ounce of tea to one quart of water. 

PRESERVED CUCUMBERS. 

After greening with vine-leaves and alum, wipe the 
cucumbers in a dry cloth, and season the inside with 
a mixture of bruised mace and lemon-peel. Tie on 
with a pack-thread the piece that was taken out. To 
every pound of cucumbers, add a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Put them in a preserving-kettle, a half-pint of water 
to each pound, and the beaten white of an egg to 
every four pounds. Boil and skim the sugar till quite 
clear, adding sliced ginger and lemon to suit the 
taste. When cool, pour it over the cucumbers, and 
let them lie in it two days, keeping them covered 
with a plate, with a weight on it. Then boil up the 
syrup again adding one-half as much sugar &c., as at 
first, and lastly add the juice and grated peel of two 
lemons, for every six cucumbers. The lemon must 
boil in the syrup but two minutes. Then strain the 
syrup over the cucumbers, and put them up in small 
jars corded tightly. 

ORANGE PRESERVES 

Choose your oranges of a fine clear skin ; make a 
hole at the stalk end, large enough to admit the end 
of a spoon, with which you take out the pulp ; throw 
them in salt and water, and let them remain three or 
four days ; drain them from this, and put them in a 
pan of fresh water, and let them boil until the end of 
a straw may be pushed through the peel ; throw them 
in cold water, and with the end of a spoon clear out 



COOKERY. 2S5 

any part of the pulp which may have adhered to them ; 
drain off the water ; put them in a tub or pan, and 
pour boiling sj^rup over them ; let them remain in this 
three or four days ; take tham from the syrup, and 
boil it again, adding more as the peels imbibe it, so 
as to keep them well covered ; boil the syrup once in 
every four or five days, and pour it hot over them ; do 
this until it has fully penetrated them. 



ORANGE JELLY. 

Squeeze the juice out of twelve Havana oranges, 
and one lemon ; strain through a fine linen cloth ; 
then mix with the boiled syrup ; add the clarified 
isinglass, filter through a fine flannel bag, and finish 
as before. 

The foregoing will suffice for all fruit jellies. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Procure some large Seville oranges with clear skins, 
peel them, squeeze out the pulp and juice, taking 
care to remove all the pips. Boil the peel (divided 
into quarters) till they are sufficiently tender ; scrape 
clean all the inside from them, lay them in folds, and 
cut into very thin slices about an inch long. Weigh 
the juice, pulp, and boiled peel, and add broken lump 
sugar equal in weight to the whole, and boil for half 
an hour, carefully removing the scum. Then put it 
into pots, and when quite cold, seal them up. Some 
use only half bitter oranges, and the rest common 
sweet oranges. 



236 COOKERY, 



JELLY OF APRICOTS. 

Take the stones out of one dozen and a half of fine 
apricots, and boil them in the syrup, which, in this 
case, should be as light as possible. When boiled 
sufficiently to extract the flavor, and strain through a 
napkin, add the necessary quantity of isinglass, and 
finish as usual. 

PRESERVING WATERMELON WITH THE PULP. 

Put the melon in brine three days, then in fresh 
water three days, after which boil it in alum-water, 
repeating it several times; let it only remain until it 
comes to the boil each time ; then keep it in fresh 
water a few hours. To every pound of the melon 
allow a pound of white sugar, and enough water to 
make sufficient syrup. To every six pounds of pre- 
serves allow two lemons, peeled, sliced and seeded. 
Flavor with ginger, and other spices. 

TO PRESERVE CITRON WATERMELON. 

Pare the dark green from the outside, and scrape 
the soft pulp from the inside of the lemon ; cut in 
slices, boil it in alum-water till clear. Throw it into 
spring-water, where it may lie two or three hours, 
changing the water frequently. To one pound of 
fruit take one pound of sugar. Make a syrup of half 
the quantity of sugar, and boil with it all the melon 
until done, when it will be transparent. At the ex- 
piration of two or three daj-s, take the jelly from it, 
and add the remaining half of the sugar. Boil and 
pour over it the melon, which will be ready for use. 
Season it with ginger. 



COOKERY. 237 

Some persons follow the foregoing receipt, scalding 
the melons in alum-water ; others soak them in pure 
water, and scald them by turning on the boiling 
syrup. If this method does not soften them enough, 
they should be scalded in the syrup ; for as they are 
very hard, they should be well softened by heat. 
Another method is to scald them in salt water till 
they are soft. Then put them into spring-water as 
directed in the above receipt, and change the water 
till they are sufficiently fresh. When the melons are 
prepared by either of those ways, dissolve the sugar 
in water, using no more water than is necessary to 
dissolve it, and turn it, scalding hot, on the melons, 
and let it remain a few days. Then it will have be- 
come thin from the juice of the melons, and should 
be again boiled awhile and reduced to a greater de- 
gree of consistence, before pouring on the melons. 
It may be necessary to boil it the third time. 

TO PRESERVE GOLDEN PIPPINS. 

Take the rind of an orange, boil it very tender, and 
lay it in cold water for three days ; take two dozen 
golden pippins, pare one-quarter of them, and boil 
them to a strong jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag 
till it is clear; take the same quantity, pare them, 
and take out the cores ; put three pounds of loaf- 
sugar in a preserving-kettle, with three half-pints of 
spring-water. When it boils, skim it well, and put 
in the pippins, with the orange-rind, cut in long, thin 
slips ; let them boil fast till the sugar is thick, and it 
will almost candy. Then put in three half-pints of 
pippin-jelly, and boil it fast till the jelly is clear. 
Then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, give it a boil, 
and put them in glass jars with the orange-peel. 



238 COOKEKY. 



APPLE MOLASSES. 

There is many a good housewife who has more 
faith in her own experience than in the science of 
chemistry, that knows not the value of apple mo- 
lasses; but still believes it to be the same kind of 
tart, smoky, worthless stuff that has from time imme- 
morial been made by boiling down cider. It is not 
within my province, at this time, to attempt to con- 
vince such that there is a chemical difference, though 
it might easily be shown that they are almost as dif- 
ferent as sugar and vinegar; I would, however, invite 
them to lay aside their cider this year, and try the 
plan of boiling down the juice of the apple, that has 
not been exposed to the air by grinding and pressing. 
Last autumn I placed a number of bushels of apples 
in two large brass kettles, with water just enough to 
steam them; when they had boiled soft, I turned 
them into a new splinter basket containing some 
straw, and placed on them a barrel head, and a heavy 
weight. The juice was caught in a tub. This was 
repeated until I had juice enough to fill up the ket- 
tles, when I commenced boiling it down, and attended 
to it strictl}', frequently skimming it, till it became 
of the consistence of cane molasses. The native acids 
of the fruit imparted a peculiar flavor, otherwise it 
could hardly be distinguished from the syrup of the 
cane. It was used in my family for making sweet- 
meats, for sweetening pies, for dressing on puddings 
and griddle cakes, and a variety of other purposes. 
The cost of making it is very trifling, and the means 
are within the reach of every farmer. 



COOKERY. 239 

APPLE BUTTER. 

To make this article according to German custom, 
the host should, in the autumn, invite his neighbors 
to make up an apple-butter party. Being assembled, 
let three bushels of fair sweet apples be pared, quar- 
tered, and the cores removed : meanwhile let two bar- 
rels of clear new cider be boiled down to one-half; 
when this is done commit the prepared apples to the 
cider, and henceforth let the boiling go on briskly 
and systematically. But to accomplish the main de- 
sign, the party must take turns at stirring the con- 
tents without cessation, that they do not become 
attached to the side of the kettle, and be burned. 
Let this stirring go on till the amalgamated cider and 
apples become as thick as hasty pudding ; then throw 
in seasoning of pulverized allspice, when it may be 
considered as finished, and committed to pots for 
future use. This is apple butter, and will keep sweet 
for many years. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Pare, quarter, and core any quantity of fine, sound 
apples, cover them with water, and boil them till 
soft ; take them out and put them into a sieve, and 
let all the juice drain from them into the water they 
were boiled in ; then take the parings and some cores, 
cover with water and boil them ; then add all the 
liquor of both together, and boil to a good syrup ; 
then add one pound of sugar to one pint of syrup, 
and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. 

PEACH JELLY. 

Wipe the down well off your peaches, which should 
be free-stones, and not too ripe, and cut them in 



240 COOKERY. 

quarters, crack the stones, and break the kernels 
small; put the peaches and kernels into a covered 
jar, set them in boiling water, and let them boil till 
they are soft; strain them through a jelly-bag until 
all the juice is squeezed out; allow a pint of loaf- 
sugar to a pint of juice ; put the sugar and juice into 
a preserving-kettle, and boil them twenty minutes, 
skimming very carefully ; put the jelly warm into 
glasses, and when cold tie them up. Papers laid on 
the preserves, wet with brandy, help to keep them in 
good condition. 

PEACH SWEETMEATS. 

To one pound of peaches put half a pound of good 
brown sugar, with half a pint of water to dissolve it, 
first clarifying it with an egg ; then boil the peaches 
and sugar together, skimming the egg oiF, which will 
rise on the top till it is the thickness of a jelly. If 
you wish to do them whole, do not peel them, but put 
them into boiling water and give them a boil. Then 
take them out, and wipe them dry. Pears are done 
in the same way. 

TO PRESERVE GREEN FIGS. 

The figs may be gathered when they have got 
their growth, and when they begin to turn ripe. Put 
them in a sieve, and pour boiling water over them to 
stand about an hour; then weigh the sugar, and 
allow pound for pound ; put them in a kettle, and 
boil with the syrup ; then take them out, and put 
them into dishes in the sun; boil the syrup down, 
put the figs back, and let them boil a short time. 



COOKERY. 241 



TO PRESERVE TOMATOES. 

Take good ripe tomatoes ; peel them, and preserve 
them with good brown or loaf-sugar, as peaches or 
other fruit. K not peeled, they burst, and do not 
maintain the consistence so much desired by house- 
keepers, though they are good without peeling. 



TOMATO FIGS. 

Pour boiling water on the tomatoes, in order to 
remove the skin ; then weigh, and place them in a 
stone jar, with as much sugar as you have tomatoes, 
and let them remain two days ; pour off the syrup, 
boil and skim, until the scum ceases to rise. After; 
this is repeated three times, they are fit to drj^, if the 
weather is good ; if not, let them remain in the syrup 
until drying weather. Then place on earthen plates 
or dishes, put them in the sun, and they will be dry 
in about a week; after which, pack them down in 
small wooden boxes, with white sugar between each 
layer. 

HOW TO PRESERVE QUINCES WHOLE. 

Take the weight of your quinces in sugar, and put 
a pint of water to a pound of sugar ; make it into a 
syrup,, and clarify it; then core your quinces, and 
pare them, and put them into your syrup, and let it 
boil till it be all clear ; then put in three spoonsful of 
jcll}^; which must be made thus: — Over-night lay 
your quince kernels in water; then strain them, and 
put them into your quinces, and let them have but 
one boil afterward. 
21 



242 COOKERY. 



QUINCE JELLY. 

Put the quinces on in cold water; boil tender, and 
to each quart of juice add one pound and a half of 
sugar. Boil about fifteen minutes, or until it jellies ; 
it is done when it drips from the spoon. 

QUINCE PRESERVES, NO. I. 

Boil the quinces, (after peeling,) in enough water 
to cover them well ; when they are perfectly soft, lay 
them on dishes, not touching ; then take the juice in 
whicVi they were boiled, strain it, and add to each 
pint three quarters of a pound of white sugar; boil 
until it is a thick syrup. Just before taking it up, 
put back the fruit, then pour all out together into 
dishes ; and after it has cooled, put it up in jars, 
which should hold not more than one quart; cork 
and seal tightly. 

QUINCE PRESERVES, NO. II. 

Boil the quinces in clear water until they are soft, 
then peel and core them; take their weight in sugar; 
put alternately a layer of fruit and sugar in an 
earthen vessel, and let it remain several hours, or 
long enough for plenty of syrup to be formed. Add 
two tumblers-full of water to every two pounds of 
fruit; then put all together into a kettle and boil it 
until the fruit is about half done. Take it carefully 
out of the syrup, spread it on dishes, and sun it 
several days ; then boil the syrup once more, until it 
is as thick as jou wish it; and a few minutes before 
it is taken up, put the fruit in it to boil until quite 
soft. 



COOKERY. 243 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES WHOLE. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and refined sugar ; 
lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the 
sugar in fine powder over ; give a gentle shake to the 
dish, that the sugar may touch the under sides of the 
fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the re- 
mainder of the sugar, and instead of water allow one 
pint of red currant-juice to every pound of straw- 
berries. In this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

One pound of picked strawberries ; press them 
lightly, and put them in four ounces of clear syrup ; 
cover, and let them stand all night ; strain through a 
bag on the following morning : meanwhile clarify 
half a pound of sugar; when nearly clarified, add to 
it a few drops of prepared cochineal, to give it a fine 
red color, after which strain it through a sieve, and 
add to it an ounce of clarified isinglass, the juice of 
two sound lemons, and afterwards the fruit. Stir the 
jelly gently, and put it in a mold placed on ice. 

To clarify isinglass, take one ounce of the best 
Russia ; cut it in small pieces ; wash it several times 
in clear warm water; let it boil sufficiently in one 
pint of soft water, taking care to skim it well ; when 
it is reduced to one-half, strain through a napkin into 
a clean vessel. The sugar and isinglass should only 
be lukewarm when you mix them. These remarks 
apply to all jellies of this kind. 

PINE-APPLE JELLY. 

Take a fine ripe pine-apple, cut it small, and strain 
the juice through a hair-sieve ; then throw it into the 



244 COOKERY. 

boiling syrup, let it boil up, and, when nearly cold, 
strain it through a silk sieve. Add the juice of two 
fine lemons, and an ounce of clarified isinglass. 
Proceed as in strawberry jelly. 

TO PRESERVE RASPBERRIES. 

Pick your raspberries in a dry day, just before they 
are fully ripe ; lay them in a dish ; beat and sift their 
weight of fine sugar, and strew it over them. To 
every quart of raspberries take a quart of red currant 
jelly, and put to it its weight of fine sugar ; boil and 
skim it well. Then put in your raspberries, and give 
them a scald. Take them off", and let them stand 
two hours. Then set them on again, and scald until 
they look clear. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Take a pint of currant-jelly, and a (|uart of rasp- 
berries ; bruise them well together, set them over a 
slow fire ; keep stirring all the time till it boils ; let it 
boil gently half an hour, and stir it round very often, 
to keep it from sticking, and rub it through a 
colander ; pour it into your jar, covering it tight : it 
will keep for a year or two, and have the full flavor 
of the raspberry. 

TO PRESERVE GRAPES. 

Get some fine grapes, not over-ripe, and pick out 
all the specked ones. Put them in a jar, with a 
quarter of a pound of sugar-candy, and fill the jar 
with French brandy. Tie them down close, and 
keep them in a dry place. You may do cherries the 
same way. 



COOKERY. 245 



PRESERVED CRAB-APPLES. 

"Wash your fruit, cover the bottom of your pre- 
serving-kettle with grape-leaves, put in the apples, 
hang them over the fire, with a very little water, and 
cover them closely : do not allow them to boil, but 
let them simmer gently till they are yellow. Take 
them out, and spread them on a large dish to cool, 
pare and core them, put them again into the kettle, 
with fresh vine-leaves under and over them, and a 
ver}'- little water ; hang them over the fire till they 
are green, not letting them boil ; take them out, weigh 
them, and allow a pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of 
crab-apples, put to the sugar just water enough to 
dissolve ; when it is all melted, put it on the fire, and 
boil and skim it, then put in your fruit, and boil the 
apples till they are quite clear and soft. Put them 
in jars, and pour the warm liquor over them; when 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 

Wash your cranberries, weigh them, and to each 
pound allow a pound of loaf-sugar, dissolve the sugar 
in a very little water, (about half a pint of water to a 
pound of sugar,) and set it on the fire in a preserving 
kettle ; boil it near ten minutes, skimming it well ; 
then put in your cranberries and boil them slowly till 
they are quite soft, and of a fine color. Put them 
warm into your jars or glasses, and tie them up with 
brandy paper when cold : when opened for use, they 
should be tied up again immediately, as exposure to 
the air spoils them. 
21* 



246 COOKERY. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 

Pare your pineapples, and cut them in thin round 
slices ; weigh the slices, and to each pound allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar; dissolve the sugar in a very 
small quantity of water, stir it, and set it over the fire 
in a preserving-kettle ; boil it ten minutes, skimming 
it well ; then put in it the pineapple slices, and boil 
them till they are clear and soft, but not till they 
break — about half an hour, or perhaps less time, will 
suffice. Let them cool in a large dish or pan before 
you put them into your jars, which you must do 
carefully, lest they break. Pour the syrup over them, 
and tie them up with brandy paper. 

TO CLARIFY SUGAR FOR PRESERVES. 

Break as much as is required in large lumps, and 
put a pound to a half-pint of water in a bowl, and it 
will dissolve better than when broken small. Set it 
over the fire, and add the white of an egg well beaten, 
let it boil up, and when ready to run over, pour a 
little cold water in it to give it a check ; but when it 
rises the second time, take it off the fire, and set it by 
in the pan a quarter of an hour, during which the 
foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black 
scum on the top, which take off" gently with a skim- 
mer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly 
from the sediment. 



COOKERY. 247 



PREPARATIONS FOR THE SICK. 

ARROW-ROOT. 

Mix a dessert spoonful of arrow-root with sufficient 
cold water to form a soft paste ; rub it till quite smooth, 
and add by degrees half a pint of boiling water, stir- 
ring it briskly. Boil for a minute or two, and when 
removed from the fire, add a tablespoonful of sherry 
or other white wine where wine can be allowed, with 
a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel, and sugar to 
the taste. For young children, milk should be used 
instead of water, and the wine omitted : it is also 
more nourishing in this form for those invalids with 
whom milk agrees. 

SAGO. 

Wash an ounce of pearl sago in cold water ; then 
boil it gently in a pint of fresh water, stirring it fre- 
quently till dissolved. It may be flavored with wine, 
spices and sugar as directed for arrow-root. For chil- 
dren, consumptives and debilitated patients, it may 
be made with milk instead of water. The common 
sago, being in larger grains, requires more time to 
dissolve ; and is usually steeped some hours before 
boiling it. 

TAPIOCA. 

Is prepared as sago, but is more nourishing when 
made with milk. 



248 COOKERY. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take of lean beef, cut in slireds, one pound ; water, 
one quart. Boil for twenty minutes, removing any 
scum that arises. When cold, strain it. Take half 
a pound of good rump-steak; cut it into thin slices, 
spread these into a hollow dish ; sprinkle with a little 
salt, and pour over the whole a pint of boiling water. 
Cover the dish and place it near the fire for half an 
hour ; then boil fifteen minutes, and strain through a 
sieve. This tea should be weakened, for invalids, 
with boiling water. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

Take of lean beef, sliced, a sufficient quantity to 
fill the body of a porter-bottle, cork up loosely, and 
place it in a pot of cold water, attaching the neck, by 
means of a string, to the handle of the pot. Boil 
from one and a half to two hours, then pour oif the 
liquid, and strain it. To this preparation may be 
added spices, salt, wine, brandy, &c., according to the 
taste of the patient, and nature of the disease. 

MUTTON TEA. 

Take one pound of good mutton, freed from the 
fat, and cut into thin slices ; pour over it a pint and 
a half of boiling water, in the same manner as 
directed for beef tea ; but it requires to be boiled for 
half an hour previous to straining. If the invalid 
desires the addition of barley, an ounce of clean pearl 
barley, washed and macerated in boiling water for an 
Lour, may be boiled with the mutton tea, and the un- 
dissolved barley separated by straining. 



COOKERY. 249 

CHICKEN WATER, NO. I. 

Take half a chicken, divested of all fat, and break 
the bones ; add to this, a half-gallon of water, boil 
for half an hour ; pour off, and season with salt and 
pepper. 

CHICKEN WATER, NO. II. 

Take a small chicken, free it from the skin, and 
from all the fat between the muscles ; divide it length- 
wise into halves ; remove the lungs, liver, &c., then 
cut it, bones and muscles, into thin slices ; put these 
into a pan with a sufficient quantity of salt ; add a 
quart of boiling water, cover the pan, and simmer 
slowly, for two hours. Strain through a fine sieve. 

CHICKEN PANADA. 

Take the white meat of a boiled or roasted fowl 
from the skin, and cut it into small pieces; pound 
them in a mortar, with an equal quantity of stale 
bread, and a sufficiency of salt, adding gradually the 
water in which some of the chicken has been boiled, 
or some beef-tea, until the whole forms a fluid paste ; 
put this into a pan, and boil ten minutes, continually 
stirring. 

VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Take two potatoes, one carrot, one turnip, and one 
onion ; slice and boil them in a quart of water for an 
hour, adding water from time to time, to keep up the 
original quantit}' ; flavor with salt, and a small por- 
tion of pot-herbs, and strain. When allowable to a 
patient, add a small quantity of mushroom-catsup. 



250 COOKERY. 



LIGHT BREAD SOUP. 

Boil in a saucepan a pint of water, to whicli add 
an egg well beaten, two slices of bread, toasted brown, 
a teacup of sweet milk, a little butter, and salt and 
pepper to the taste. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Make a fine gruel of half grits, well boiled ; strain 
off, and add either cold or warm milk, as preferred. 
Serve with toast. 

FRENCH MILK PORRIDGE. 

Stir some oatmeal and water together ; let it stand 
till it gets clear, and pour off the water ; then pour 
fresh water upon it ; stir it well ; let it stand till next 
day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, 
adding milk while boiling. The proportion of water 
must be small. This, with toast, is a good breakfast 
for weak persons. 

PANADA. 

Stale bread, one ounce ; cinnamon, one drachm ; 
water, one pint ; cover, and let it stand for an hour ; 
then beat it up, and let it boil for ten minutes, adding 
a little grated nutmeg and sugar. Wine may be 
added, if desired. 

PANADA. 

Boil a pint of new milk ; add to it half a dozen 
crackers, two or three spoonsful of good Sherry- 
wine, and some grated nutmeg. The wine should 
not be added until the milk has been taken ofl' the 
fire. 



COOKERY. 251 

BOILED FLOUR. 

Take of fine flour a pound ; tie it up in a linen 
cloth, as tightly as possible ; and after frequently dip- 
ping it into cold water, dredge the outside with flour, 
till a crust is formed around it whilst boiling. Boil 
for a long time, and permit to cool, when it will be- 
come a dry, hard mass. This is to be grated, and 
prepared like arrow-root. It is a good diet for chil- 
dren in diarrhoea, &c. 

BISCUIT JELLY. 

White biscuits, four ounces, to be boiled in two 
quarts of water, down to one quart, and strain and 
evaporate to one pint ; add one pound of white sugar, 
four ounces of port-wine, and one drachm of cinna- 
mon-water ; the whole to be well mixed. It has been 
found useful for debility of the digestive organs. 

BREAD JELLY. 

Cut a French roll into slices ; toast these on both 
sides, and boil in a quart of water until the whole 
forms a jelly, adding more water if required ; strain 
and flavor. This is nutritious, and may be made more 
so by using broth, wholly deprived of fat, instead of 
water. 

RICE JELLY. 

This is one of the most nourishing preparations of 
rice for invalids. It is thus made : — Boil a quarter 
of a pound of rice-flour, with half a pound of loaf- 
sugar, in a quart of water, till the whole becomes one 
glutinous mass ; then strain off the jelly, and let it 
stand to cool. 



252 COOKERY. 



CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

Take the feet of two calves, and add to them one 
gallon of water, and boil down to one quart ; strain, 
and when cold remove the fat ; then add the whites 
of six or eight eggs, well beaten ; a pint of wine ; 
half a pound of loaf-sugar; the juice of four lemons, 
and mix well. Boil for a few minutes, constantly- 
stirring ; then strain through a flannel bag. The wine 
may be omitted, if desirable. 

ICELAND MOSS. 

Infuse an ounce of picked Iceland moss, for fifteen 
minutes, in half a pint of hot water ; strain oft' the 
water, and boil the moss in a quart of fresh milk till 
reduced to a pint and a half. Cool it in something 
that will give the jelly a pretty form. The flavor is 
much improved by eating with fruit jelly — quince or 
apple — if admissible, for a patient. This dish is both 
nice and ornamental for a dessert or supper. 

AN AGREEABLE BEVERAGE FOR A SICK PERSON. 

Break up half a dozen hard biscuits or crackers in 
an earthen bowl ; set it on a trivet with warm embers 
under it, and pour boiling water on the mixture until 
the bread is covered, and the water not too thick; 
leave it over the fire two or three minutes, adding 
sugar, allspice, and a little Sherry wine; add an egg, 
if desired, to be beaten in the bowl first, adding the 
water gradually ; then the crackers, spices, &c. 



COOKERY. 253 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast thoroughly a slice of stale bread ; put it into 
a jug, and pour over it a quart of water, which has 
been boiled and cooled, and in two hours pour off. A 
small piece of orange or lemon-peel, put into the jug 
with the bread, improves the flavor greatly. This 
forms a good drink in febrile affections. 

APPLE WATER. 

Slice two large apples, and pour over them a pint 
of boiling water ; let it stand for an hour, and pour 
off. If necessary, sweeten with a little white sugar. 
It is also prepared by boiling, for an hour, ten ounces 
of sliced apples in two pints of water, and straining. 

LEMON-PEEL WATER. 

Take the rind of one lemon, and half an ounce of 
refined loaf-sugar; put them into ajar, and pour over 
them a quart of boiling water. When cold, pour off 
the fluid, and add a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. If 
wine be not improper for the invalid, a glass of Sherry 
may be added, instead of the lemon-juice. 

BRAN TEA. 

Fresh wheat bran, one pound ; water, three quarts ; 
boil down to one quart, strain, and add sugar, honey, 
or molasses, according to the taste of the patient. 

WINE WHEY. 

Boil a pint of milk, and put to it a glass of white 
wine ; set it over the fire till it just boils again ; then 
set it off till the curd has settled ; then strain it, and 
sweeten to the taste. 
22 



254 COOKERY. 

RENNET WHEY, 

■Warm a pint of milk, but do not let it get too hot, 
or it will spoil the taste of the whey ; wash the salt 
from a piece of rennet the size of a silver dollar, and 
put it in the milk ; when it turns, take out the rennet, 
wash and put it in a cup of water, and it will do to 
use again to make whey. If you have rennet in a 
bottle of wine, two teaspoonsful of it will make a 
quart of whey ; but if the invalid has fever, it is best 
to make it without wine. 

MULLED WINE. 

Beat together an egg, a glass of wine, and a spoon- 
ful of sugar ; pour on it half a pint of water ; stir all 
the time to keep it firm ; and when you pour it in a 
tumbler grate a little nutmeg over it. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To make a cup of chocolate, grate a large teaspoon- 
ful in a mug, and pour a teacup of boiling water on 
it; let it stand covered by the fire a few minutes, 
when you can put in sugar and cream ready to drink. 



BEYERAGES. 



ACIDULATED RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

Put six pounds of raspberries into a china or glass 
bow], with a quart of water, in which has been dis- 
solved two and a half ounces of tartaric or citric acid, 
and let it remain twenty-four hours. Then strain it, 
taking care not to bruise the fruit. To each pint of 
clear liquor, add one and a half pounds of pounded 
loaf-sugar, and stir it with a silver spoon till dissolved. 
Leave it for a few days ; then bottle it close. A little 
of this syrup forms a refreshing drink in warm 
weather. 

Acidulated strawberry syrup is made in the same 
way, using only two ounces of citric acid. 

RASPBERRY BRANDY. 

Scald the fruit in a stone jar set in a kettle of 
water, or on a hot hearth. When the juice will run 
freely, strain it without pressing. To every quart of 
juice allow one pound of loaf-sugar. Boil it up and 
skim. When quite clear, pour out ; and when cold, 
add an equal quantity of brandy. Shake them well 
together, and bottle. 

(255) 



256 BEVERAGES. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL, NO. I 

To each pound of blackberries allow half a pound 
of sugar. After putting the blackberries and sugar 
(well mixed) into a large jar, cover them with good 
brandy. Add a few cloves, and allspice. In three 
weeks pour off the liquor, and bottle and cork tightly. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL, NO. II. 

Put one gallon of best brandy in a three-gallon 
keg ; fill up with blackberries ; cork and set it away 
for three months. Then pour off", and measure the 
liquor. To every quart, add a half-pound of sugar, 
one pint of good wine, and one pint of water. Bottle, 
and cork tight. It will be ready for use in six weeks. 

BLACKBERRY WINE, NO. I. 

To one gallon of clear blackberry juice, add one 
quart of water, and three pounds of white sugar. 
Mix well together, and put the mixture into an 
earthen or wooden vessel, which should be kept 
almost full. Skim well every twentj^-four hours until 
it is done fermenting, which will be in about'a month; 
then bottle, and cork tightly. Lay the bottles down 
on the sides, in a cool dry place. This is a receipt 
that can be fully relied on, if the directions are pro- 
perly attended to. 

BLACKBERRY WINE, NO. II. 

To one quart of blackberry juice, add one pint of 
water, and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Make 
as directed above. 



BEVERAGES. 257 



BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 



This syrup is said to be a specific for the summer 
complaint. From a teaspoonful to a wine-glass, ac- 
cording to the age of the patient, must be given at 
intervals till relieved. 

How to make it: — To two quarts of juice of 
blackberries, add one pound of loaf-sugar, half an 
ounce of nutmegs, half an ounce of cinnamon pulver- 
ized, one-quarter of an ounce of cloves, one-quarter 
of an ounce of allspice, pulverized ; boil together for 
a short time, and when cold add a pint of fourth- 
proof French brandy. 

ORANGE WINE. 

Of sugar twenty-three pounds, water ten gallons; 
boil, and clarify with the white of six eggs ; pour the 
boiling liquor upon the parings of one hundred 
oranges; add the strained juice of these oranges and 
six ounces, or half-pint of good fresh yeast; let it 
work for three or four days ; then strain it into a bar- 
rel ; bung it up loosely. In a month add four pounds 
of brandy, and in three months it will be fit to drink. 
Wines may also be made of blackberries, and other 
English fruits, upon the same principles. The above 
are the methods generally employed ; but most per- 
sons have peculiar ways of proceeding, which may in- 
deed be varied to infinity, and so as to produce at 
pleasure a sweet or dry wine, the sweet not being so 
thoroughly fermented as the dry. The addition of 
brandy destroys the proper flavor of the wine, and it 
is better to omit it entirely (except for elder or port 
wine, whose flavor is so strong that it cannot well be 
22* 



258 BEVERAGES. 

injured), and to increase the strengtli by augmenting 
the quantity of the raisins or sugar. In general, the 
must for wines ought to be made of six pounds of 
raisins, or four pounds of sugar to the gallon, allow- 
ing for that contained in the fruit. 



ORANGE SYRUP. 

This syrup, so easily made, can be used so con- 
stantly with advantage, that no housekeeper should 
be without it. Select ripe and thin-skinned fruit, 
squeeze the juice through a sieve. To every pint add 
a pound and a half of powdered sugar. Boil it slowly, 
and skim as long as any scum arises. Then take it 
off, let it grow cold, and bottle it, taking care to 
secure the corks well. Two tablespoousful of this 
syrup, mixed in melted butter, make an excellent 
sauce for plum or batter pudding. It also imparts a 
fine flavor to custards. 



CURRANT WINE. 

To each gallon of currant juice, add two gallons of 
water, and to each gallon of the mixture, add three 
and a half pounds of good brown sugar, and put into 
good barrels. After it has done fermenting, it should 
be bunged tightly for two or three weeks ; then it 
should be racked ofl', and put into clean strong casks. 
If you wish to give it more body, add to each barrel, 
after it has been racked off, one gallon of good 
French brandy. 

Gooseberry wine may also be made in the same 
manner. 



BEVERAGES. 259 

PARSNIP WINE. 

"VVine made of parsnip-root approaches nearer to 
the Malmsley of Madeira and the Canaries than any 
otlier wine. It is made witli little expense or trouble, 
and only requires to be kept a few years to make it 
agreeable to the palate as it is wholesome to the body. 
To every four pounds of parsnips, cleaned and quar- 
tered, put one gallon of water; boil them till they are 
quite tender ; drain them through a sieve, but do not 
bruise them, as no remedy would clear them after 
wards. Pour the liquor into a tub, and to each gal- 
lon add three pounds of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce 
of crude tartar. When cooled to the temperature of 
75 degrees, put in a little new yeast; let it stand four 
days in a warm room ; then turn it. The mixture 
should, if possible, be fermented in a temperature of 
60 degrees. September and March are the best sea- 
sons for making the wine. When the fermentation 
has subsided, bung down the cask, and let the wine 
stand at least twelve months before bottling. 

GINGER WINE. 

Of bruised ginger twelve pounds, water ten gallons. 
Boil for half an hour ; add twenty-eight pounds of 
sugar; boil till dissolved; then cool, and put the 
liquor along with fourteen lemons sliced, and three 
pints of good French brandy ; add a little yeast, and 
ferment; bung it up for three months, and then 
bottle it. 

MODE OF REFINING WINE AND CIDER. 

Take new, sweet skim-milk, drawn at night and 
skimmed the following morning, or morning's milk, 



260 BEVERAGES. 

skimmed at night, one pint to a quarter-cask ; pour 
it into the liquor to be refined, the coldest weather in 
the winter, and stir it up thoroughly, to incorporate it 
completely; let it settle, and your work is done. The 
liquor will be pure and fine, and will have a peculiar 
richness imparted to it by the process. 

METHEGLIN. 

Of honey fifty pounds, boiling water a sufficient 
quantity to fill a thirty -two gallon cask; stir it well 
for a day or two ; add yeast, and ferment. Some 
boil the honey in the water for an hour or two, but 
this hinders its due fermentation. 

MEAD. 

Take ten gallons of water, two gallons of honey, 
and a handful of raced ginger; then take two lemons, 
cut them in pieces, and put them into it ; boil it very 
well ; keep skimming it ; let it stand all night in the 
same vessel you boil it in. The next morning barrel 
it up, with two or three spoonsful of good yeast. In 
two or three weeks after, you may bottle it. 

HOP BEER. 

For half a barrel of beer, take half a pound of hops 
and half a gallon of molasses. Boil the hops, adding 
to them a teacupful of powdered ginger, in about a 
pailful and a half of water ; that is, a quantity suffi- 
cient to extract the virtue of the hops. When suffi- 
ciently boiled or brewed, take it up, and strain it 
through a sieve into a tub ; add the molasses, shaking 
or stirring it well with a wooden ladle, that it may be 
thoroughly mixed. Then put it into your barrel, and 



BEVERAGES. 261 

fill up with water quite to the bung, observing to 
shake the barrel well afterwards ; the bung must be 
left open, to allow it to work. You must be careful 
to keep it constantly filled up with water whenever it 
works over. When sufficiently worked, it may be 
bottled, adding a spoonful of molasses to each bottle. 



SPRUCE BEER. 

Put four gallons of cold water into a keg, with one 
head out ; then, after boiling four gallons more, put 
that in also ; add two quarts of molasses, or sweeten 
to 5'Our taste, and one large wine-glass of the essence 
of spruce, observing to stir them well together for 
several minutes. When about blood-warm, add one 
pint of good yeast, the whole being well stirred toge- 
ther. The top should be covered with the head, and 
set up carefully to work, and in two days it will be 
fit to bottle. By packing the bottles away in sand in 
the cellar, or a cool place, they will be kept from 
bursting, and in two or three days the wine will be 
ripe for drinking. 



ANOTHER METHOD OF MAKING GOOD BEER. 

Put two quarts of molasses into a keg, with eight 
gallons of cold water; stir it well, and leave one 
head out. Boil two ounces of allspice, two ounces of 
ginger, two ounces of hops, and half a pint of Indian- 
meal, in four quarts of water, about an hour ; strain 
it into the keg while hot, stirring it all well toge- 
ther, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for use, 
or to bottle. 



262 BEVERAGES. 



TAR BEER FOR CONSUMPTION. 

Three quarts of pure water, one quart of wheat 
bran, one pint of tar, and half a pint of honey. Let 
them simmer, over a slow fire, for three hours, in a 
new stone vessel ; when cool, add half a pint of 
brewer's yeast ; let it stand thirty-six hours, and it is 
fit for use. It must be kept in a cool place. Take a 
wine-glassful before each meal. 



GINGER BEER, NO. I. 

Infuse three ounces of bruised ginger in four gal- 
lons of boiling water, till cold. Strain through flan- 
nel. Dissolve in the liquor five pounds of loaf-sugar, 
and add half a pint of solid yeast, and two and a half 
ounces of cream of tartar. In cold weather it will be 
necessary to set the cask near the fire, so as to excite 
brisk fermentation. As soon as this subsides, rack 
off" the clear liquor, return it into the cask, previously 
washed out, and allow it to work for a day or so 
longer. Then draw it off', and bottle it. 



GINGER BEER, NO. II. 

Ginger, sliced, one ounce ; dried orange-peel, half 
an ounce ; stir them in a bag, boil with a gallon of 
water, and strain. Add three-quarters of an ounce 
of tartaric acid, twenty-five drops of essence of 
lemon, and twenty-four ounces of loaf-sugar. "When 
sufficiently cool, add two tablespoonsful of fresh yeast. 
Let the beer work for twelve hours, and bottle it. 



BEVERAGES. 263 



GINGER BEER, NO. III. 

Ginger, sliced, three-quarters of an ounce ; essence 
of lemon, rubbed with twelve ounces of sugar ; boil- 
ing water, half a gallon. Infuse till cold, and strain. 
Ferment as above, with three or four spoonsful of 
yeast, and bottle. 

GINGER BEER, NO. IV. 

Boil two and a half ounces of bruised ginger, and 
three pounds of sugar, in three and a half gallons of 
water, for twenty minutes. Put into a large pan one 
ounce of cream of tartar, and the juice and rind of 
two lemons. Pour the boiling liquor over them, and 
stir the whole well together. When milk-warm, add 
one-fourth of a pint of good ale yeast, cover it, and 
let it work for two or three days, skimming it fre- 
quently ; then strain it through a jelly-bag into a 
cask; add half a pint of brandy; bung down closely, 
and in two or three weeks bottle in the usual way. 

GINGER BEER, NO. V. 

Prepare a clear decoction of infusion of ginger with 
sugar and lemon, as above ; but, instead of ferment- 
ing it with yeast, charge it strongly with carbonic 
acid gas by means of a machine. 

IMPERIAL POP. 

Mix cream of tartar, three ounces; ginger, one 
ounce; white sugar, twenty-four ounces; lemon-juice, 
one ounce ; boiling water, a gallon and a half. When 
cool, strain, and ferment with one ounce of yeast, and 
bottle. 



264 BEVERAGES. 

CORN BEER. 

Boil one pint of corn, until quite soft, in enough 
water to cover it well, and pour it into a jar. Add a 
quart of syrup or good molasses, a pint of sugar, a 
quart of dried apples, two ounces of pulverized gin- 
ger, a cup of solid yeast dissolved in a little warm 
water, and three gallons of water. Set it in a warm 
place in winter, and a cool place in summer. It will 
be fit for use in a day or two. 

PERSIMMON BEER, NO. I. 

It is made as corn beer, with the addition of the 
persimmons. Locusts added, also, will improve it. 

PERSIMMON BEER, NO. II. 

Take two-thirds of persimmons, and one-third corn 
meal. Mix them well together, and bake in loaves, 
till they are firm and hard ; they should bake slowl}^ 
taking care not to burn them. Then take the loaves 
and throw in a clean tub, and pour on warm water 
enough to soften them ; when all is mashed up, it 
will be a thin dough. Then add as much boiling 
water as there is dough ; after stirring it sufficiently, 
strain it through a sieve, and put it into a keg or bar- 
rel, and in a day or two it will be fit for use. 

SWEET, CLEAR CIDER THAT WILL RETAIN ITS FINE VINOUS 
FLAVOR, AND KEEP GOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 

It is of importance in making cider, that the mill, 
the press, and all the materials, be sweet and clean, 
and the straw clear from dust. To make good cider, 
the fruit should be ripe, but not rotten ; and when the 
apples are ground, if the juice is left in the pomace 
twenty-four hours, the cider will be richer, softer, and 



BEVERAGES. 265 

higher colored. If the fruit is all of the same kind, 
it is generally thought that the cider will be better, as 
the fermentation will certainly be more regular, which 
is of importance. The gathering and grinding of the 
apples, and the pressing out of the juice, are mere 
manual labor, performed with very little skill in the 
operation ; but here the great art of making good 
cider commences: for as soon as the juice is pressed 
out, nature begins to work a wonderful change in it. 
The juice of fruit, if left to itself, will undergo three 
distinct fermentations, all of which change the quality 
and nature of this fluid. The first is the vinous ; 
the second, the acid, which makes it hard, and pre- 
pares it for vinegar : by the third it becomes putrid. 
The first fermentation is the only one the juice of 
apples should undergo to make good cider. It is this 
operation that separates the juice from the filth, and 
leaves it a clear, sweet, vinous liquor. To preserve 
it in this state, is the grand secret. This is done by 
fumigating it wnth sulphur, which checks any further 
fermentation, and preserves it in its fine vinous state. 
It is to be wished that all cider-makers would make 
a trial of this method. It is attended with no expense, 
but little trouble, and will have the desired effect 
I would recommend that the juice, as it comes from 
the press, be placed in open-headed casks or vats. 
In this situation it is most likely to undergo a proper 
fermentation, and the person attending may ascer- 
tain with accuracy when this fermentation ceases. 
This is of great importance, and must be particularly 
attended to. The fermentation is attended with a 
hissing noise, bubbles rising to the surface and then 
forming a soft spongy crust over the liquid. When 
the crust begins to crack, and white froth appears in 
23 



266 BEVERAGES. 

the cracks level with the surface of the head, the fer- 
mentation is about stopping. At this time the liquor 
is in a genuine, clear state, and must be drawn off im- 
mediately into casks. This is the time to fumigate 
it with the sulphur. To do this, take a bit of canvas 
or rag, about two inches broad, and twelve inches 
long ; dip this into melted sulphur, and when a few 
pails of worked cider are put into the casks, set this 
match on fire, and hold it in the casks till it is con- 
sumed. Then bung the cask and shake it, that the 
liquor may incorporate with and retain the fames. 
After this, fill the cask and bung it up. The cider 
should be racked oiF again the latter part of February 
or first of March ; and if not as clear as you wish it, 
put isinglass into it to fine it, and stir it well. Then 
put the cask in a cool place, where it will not be dis- 
turbed, for the fining to settle. Cider prepared in 
this manner will keep for years. 

KERRISON'S RECIPE FOR CIDER. 

Let it be made of good, sound winter apples, in 
cool weather, in the month of November or Decem- 
ber, and let no water he 7nixed with it. Put it into 
clean hogsheads, (whiskey hogsheads lately emptied 
are best), and keep it in a place invariably cool. Fer- 
mentation carries oif the strength of the cider ; there- 
fore prevent it from fermenting as much as possible. 
"When it exhibits a violent degree of fermentation, 
put in a half-gallon of fourth-proof rectified apple- 
whiskey; if this does not stop it, put in another half- 
gallon; the same quantity of pure French brandy will 
answer better where it can be had. As soon as the 
fermentation has subsided, and the crude particles 
settled down, rack it off into a clean hogshead. After 



BEVERAGES. 267 

this, the cider will undergo a partial fermentation ; 
and when it has subsided, rack it off again as before. 
If the crude particles are allowed to remain in the 
hogshead, they will work up among the cider during 
every fermentation, and injure it. When it is being 
racked off, it should be allowed to run with force into 
a large tub, and pumped from the tub into the hogs- 
head ; this serves to break the cider, and is highly 
beneficial during the first and second racking. Every 
time it is racked, it must be bunged up tight, and the 
hogshead kept full ; but during the fermentation, the 
bung should be left out. There are other methods 
of refining and preserving cider, which are shorter 
and more certain, but cannot be pursued by farmers 
with advantage. The above method will be found to 
answer all domestic purposes. 

PERRY. 

This is a pleasant liquor, and is made from pears, 
in the same manner that cider is made from apples. 
The pears should, in general, be ripe before they are 
ground. The pulp or pomace should not long remain 
after grinding, but should immediately be put into 
the press. The most crabbed and worst eating pears 
are said to make the best perry. The fruit ma}^ be 
either large or small. The more austere the pears, 
the better will be the liquor generally. The Taun- 
ton Squash pear (cultivated in Massachusetts) pro- 
duces fruit that is held in the highest estimation in 
New England for perry. It is an early pear, remarkable 
for the tenderness of its flesh ; if it drops ripe from 
the tree, it bursts from the fall ; whence probably its 
name. The liquor made from it is pale, sweet, re- 
markably clear, and of strong body. After perry is 



268 BEVERAGES. 

made, it should be managed in all respects like cider; 
and must, if necessary, be fined by isinglass. Boil- 
ing is said by some to have a good effect on perry, 
changing it from a white to a flame-colored liquor, 
which grows better by long keeping and bottling. 
Good perry can scarcely be distinguished from cham- 
pagne wine ; is much lighter, very sparkling, lively, 
has a pleasanter taste ; and is every way worthy of 
more attention, and of a more extensive manufacture 
than it at present receives. 

LEMONADE. 

Fresh lemon-juice, four ounces ; fresh lemon-peel, 
thin, half an ounce ; white sugar, four ounces ; boil- 
ing water, three pints. Strain when cold. 

LEMONADE IMPERIAL. 

Cream of tartar, one and a half drachms ; a slice 
of thin lemon-peel ; and a lump of sugar ; pour on 
them a quart of boiling water. Strain when cold. 
To be taken as a cooling drink. 

COMMON LEMONADE. 

Cut two lemons into slices, add two ounces of 
sugar, and pour on them a quart of boiling water. It 
is sometimes made with cold water. 

MILK LEMONADE. 

Dissolve half a pound of sugar in a quart of boiling 
water ; add half a pint of fresh lemon-juice, and the 
same of Sherry wine ; and, lastly, two-thirds of a 
pint of cold milk. Stir together, and strain. 



BEVERAGES. 269 



ORANGEADE OR SHERBET. 

Juice of four oranges ; thin peel of one orange ; 
lump-sugar, four ounces ; boiling water, three pints. 



CREAM NECTAR. 

Take six pounds of refined sugar, four ounces of 
tartaric acid, two quarts of water, and when warm, 
add the whites of four eggs, well beaten. Be careful 
not to let it come to a boil, and when cool, strain it. 
To a teaspoonful of the above syrup, add a very small 
quantity of the carbonate of soda, and stir until it 
effervesces. 

PUNCH. 

To make two quarts of puncli, take three fresh 
lemons; rub the outsides of them over with lumps 
of loaf-sugar, until they become quite yellow; throw 
the lumps into the bowl ; roll the lemons well ; cut 
them in half, and squeeze them with a proper instru- 
ment over the sugar ; bruise the sugar, and continue 
to add fresh portions of it, mixing the lemon -pulp 
and juice well with it. Much of the quality of the 
punch depends on this. The quantity of sugar to be 
added should be great enough to render the mixture, 
without water, quite mild and palatable. Then add, 
gradually, a small quantity of hot water, just enough 
to render the syrup sufficiently thin to pass through 
the strainer. Mix all well together; strain it and try 
it ; if at all sour, add more sugar. When cold, put in 
a little cold water, and the best French brandy and 
old Jamaica rum, equal quantities, adapted to the 
taste. 

23* 



270 BEVERAGES. 

To make good punch, it is necessary to have plenty 
of fresh lemon-juice, an abundance of good sugar, a 
fair proportion of brandy and rum, and very little 
water. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put two pounds of raspberries in a large bowl, and 
pour on them two quarts of white-wine vinegar; the 
next day strain the liquor on two pounds of fresh 
raspberries ; let it stand a day, and strain it into a 
stone jar; to each pint of the liquor put a pint of re- 
fined sugar ; stir till it is dissolved, and put the jar in 
a sauce-pan of water, which keep boiling for an hour; 
skim and bottle it when cold. This is used as a re- 
freshing drink, mixed with water. No glazed or metal 
vessel should be used in making it. 



THE DAIRY. 



PROFITS OF COW-KEEPING. 

IsTo branch of husbandry is more profitable than the 
keeping of cows, if properl}'- managed. Many farmers 
among us are solicitous to improve their breed of 
cows, and some raise considerable quantities of good 
roots, with which to feed during the winter. This is 
all very good, so far ; but what is the treatment of 
cows during the summer season, the time when all, 
or nearly all, the profits are obtained ? Cows kept in 
short, dry pastures in summer, will not be profitable 
to their owner, however much ruta-baga, mangel- 
wurtzel, or carrots, have been fed out to them during 
the winter. I believe that the most profitable mode 
of keeping cows through the summer is by soiling, 
or feeding them with grass in the barn or yard. This 
may frighten some farmers, and excite the ridicule 
of others ; but I think it will be granted, that he is 
the best farmer who realizes the greatest number of 
dollars and cents from a given quantity of land with 
the least amount of labor. Many farmers pride them- 
selves on raising great crops, and one hundred bushels 
of Indian-corn have been raised on a single acre. 
This is a great result; but I believe that three thou- 
sand bushels of ruta-baga may be as cheaply raised, 
take one year with another, as one hundred bushels 

(271) 



272 THE DAIRY. 

of corn. Three thousand bushels of ruta-baga will 
give about a bushel and a half a day each to six cows 
throughout the whole year. It is easy enough to see 
that cows fed in this way will be in excellent condi- 
tion, and yield immense quantities of butter and 
cheese. 

The method of soiling, as described by Dr. Dean, 
was to feed cows with new-mown grass. An acre of 
rich ground, he says, will summer a number of cows; 
a little hay or grass will indeed be necessary at all 
times of the year ; but I believe roots should be used 
in great abundance, and be made the chief article for 
feeding milch-cows throughout the year. Farmers, 
whose cows calve early, and who have abundance of 
roots, may make prodigious quantities of butter and 
cheese early in the spring. But how shall the farmer 
contrive to have a constant supply of roots throughout 
the summer, and until early root crops are ripe enough 
for use ? This is a question of immense importance. 
Ruta-baga will keep well till July, and is it not possi- 
l)le that by some kind of management this root may 
be preserved in good condition nearly or quite through 
the summer ? We have an account of an Englishman 
who buried some potatoes deep in the earth, so deep 
that their vegetation was prevented, and the potatoes, 
when kept two or three years, were of as good flavor 
and quality as when first ripe. It is believed that 
potatoes may be kept through the summer without 
sprouting, in a common ice-cellar. It has been con- 
tended that potatoes will not sprout where ice will 
not melt. Chemists pretend to describe the means 
which nature employs in the process of vegetation, 
or sprouting. Cannot chemistry tell us how some of 
those means can be withheld, or so managed, as to 



THE DAIRY. 273 

prevent, or at least retard the sprouting of vegetables ? 
If it should be impracticable to preserve roots in good 
condition throughout the whole summer, I believe 
that if our farmers practise soiling, they will realize 
an ample profit by their cows : at the worst, the far- 
mer may have a constant supply of roots for his cows, 
except about six weeks, from the first of July till the 
latter part of August ; and during this short period 
he may supply his cows with other food. A steam- 
boiler is of immense advantage to every farmer who 
cultivates roots. Dr. Dean says that a steam-boiler is 
made by setting a kettle, holding twelve gallons or 
more, in a furnace made of brick or stone, and over 
this a hogshead, with one head taken out, and the 
other bored full of holes. With such a steam-boiler a 
farmer may cook the food for his milch-cows with 
very little fuel, and with very little labor. 

Farmers in Europe and in this country have prac- 
tised soiling their cattle during summer, and those 
who have had great experience in this mode of sum- 
mering have declared it to be a much cheaper and 
more profitable mode than grazing. Much has been 
said and written of late years in regard to the great 
profits of root culture ; but the farmer who keeps a 
poor breed of cattle, sheep, and swine, and whose 
cows in summer range in a short, dry pasture, will 
never realize much wealth, however great his advan- 
tages may be in other respects. The practice of soil- 
ing cows would certainly make a great saving of land, 
and of course it would give to farmers a large pasture 
for sheep. Immense quantities of manure could be 
made, especially by those farmers who are not afraid 
of a little labor in hauling muck, loam, and other 
materials calculated to absorb the urine of animals, 
which is most commonly entirely lost. 



274 THE DAIRY. 



A GOOD STEAM-BOILER. 

The Editor of the Nashville Agriculturist says : — 
"After studying some time how to construct a cheap 
and convenient boiler, sufficient to cook food for the 
cattle on my small farm, I have at length succeeded. 
I purchased a kettle holding sixty gallons, and with 
the labor of two hands for one day, constructed a fur- 
nace of rough lime-stone. I then made a box of 
rough plank, three feet square at the bottom, and 
high enough to hold about ten bushels ; the box was 
perforated with many holes by the use of a five-quar- 
ter auger. The bottom of the box is made with plank 
six feet long, to aftbrd projections to lift it on and oflf 
the kettle. 

" When the cooking process is going on, the top 
of the box is covered with a piece of carpet, or a 
close-fitting plank cover to keep in the steam. In 
using this apparatus, a bushel or two of corn or roots 
may be put in the kettle, and the box filled with cut 
oats, corn-stalks, turnip-tops, beets, potatoes, or any 
thing else that grows on the farm, and the whole may 
be thoroughly cooked in an hour or two." 

FEEDING cows IN WINTER. 

An equal quantity of shelled corn, peas, and pump- 
kins, boiled together until done, and cooled before 
being given to the cows. Stock peas and corn alone, 
would also be good food ; or peas and meal, with or 
without pumpkins, are excellent. They should be well 
sheltered in inclement weather, and well curried and 
rubbed every morning and evening during the year. 



THE DAIRY. 275 

ANOTHER WAY TO FEED COWS. 

Boil equal quantities of corn or corn meal and car- 
rots ; or wheat bran, peas, and corn. Clean slops 
from the kitchen are also good. 

HOW TO MILK. 

Give the cow an easy and pleasant place to stand. 
Approach her gently. Have a good stool, and sit on 
it, if the cow will let you while milking. Commence 
very gently, especially if the cow is sensitive, or her 
udder or her teats are sore. When you have fairly 
begun, milk with a regular easy motion, and as fast 
as you can, without fatigue, till you are done. Milk 
very clean. If you have too many cows for one 
person to milk, it is much better to have the same 
person always milk the same cows. A cow is better 
contented, and will give more milk, if she is always 
milked by the same person. 

TO KEEP MILK SWEET. 

Be careful to have your milk-vessels well scalded 
and sunned several hours before using them. As 
soon as your milk is strained, set it in a tin or 
porcelain vessel over a fire until it is quite hot, then 
pour it into your milk-vessels, w^hich should not be 
more than eight inches deep, with covers to fit tight. 
The cream rises much better in shallow vessels ; and 
it should be skimmed off" in twenty-four hours, and 
churned immediately in warm weather; in cold 
weather, it will be necessary to let it remain longer; 
it will require a longer time for the cream to become 
acid. It is best to put it near a fire in cold weather. 



276 THE DAIRY. 

MAKING BUTTER. 

Salt and work the butter when it comes from the 
churn ; wovk again the next day without cold water 
in any of the processes, and then pack tight in tubs 
lined with bags, previously saturated with beeswax, 
and cover on the top with clean pickle. The great 
requisites in making and preserving good butter are ; 
1st. That everything should be cleanly in the whole 
process. 2nd. That milk should be kept at a proper 
temperature, say from 45° to 55°, while the cream is 
separating. 3rd. That the cream should be taken 
off and'churned before its quality is impaired. 4th. 
That its temperature should be from 55° to 65° when 
put into the churn, and the churning should be 
moderate and uniform. 5th. That salt, of the best 
quality (say alum salt made fine,) in sufficient quantity 
to suit the palate, should be blended with it in the 
first working, and the buttermilk completely got out 
by the butter-ladle. 6th. That the working of the 
butter should be repeated at the end of twenty-four 
hours, when the salt has become completely dissolved, 
and all the liquid extracted. 7th. That it should be 
packed without more salt to make it weigh, in stone 
jars, in wooden firkins or tubs, such as will not 
impart to it any taint or bad flavor, and in such a 
manner as will totally exclude the atmosphere. 
33utter made in this w^ay will be of fine flavor; and, 
by observing the directions, and keeping it in a tem- 
perature below 70°, will retain its sweetness a long 
time. Water mixed either with the milk, the 
cream, or the butter, and especially soft water, 
adds nothing to, but materially detracts from its 
richness of flavor. Milk skimmed at three several 



THE D A I R Y. 277 

times, will give three qualities of butter ; that taken 
otf first being the richest and most valuable. 

When there is a difficult}' of obtaining good butter 
quick in churning, it is said, by adding a tablespoon- 
ful of good vinegar to four gallons of cream it may be 
obtained in a few minutes. 

PATENT BUTTER. 

A Prussian nobleman has received from the 
Emperor letters patent, as a reward for discovering a 
new method of making butter, which may be of im- 
portance to dairy-women in this country. The pro- 
cess consists in boiling, or rather simmering the milk, 
for the space of fifteen minutes, in its sweet state, 
taking care not to burn it ; and then churning it in 
the usual manner. It is said no difficulty ever occurs 
in making butter immediately, and of a quality far 
superior to that made from milk which has under- 
gone vinous fermentation. Butter made in this man- 
ner is also said to preserve its flavor and sweetness 
much longer than butter made in the ordinary man- 
ner. The milk likewise being left sweet, is consider- 
ed of nearly the same value as before churning, and 
far more healthy on account of its having the ani- 
malculse, or whatever else it may have contained, 
destroyed. The ease with which the experiment 
may be made, should induce all to give it a fair trial. 

SALTING BUTTER. 

It is not unfrequently that we hear complaints, 
which, we have no doubt, are well founded, that 
much of the butter for sale in our market is strongly 
rancid and unfit for use. But where lies the fault? 
Our dairy-women are not altogether chargeable with 
24 



278 THE DAIRY. 

the evil ; many of them know their duty and do it 
faithfully, as far as the manufacture of the article is 
concerned. When it is first made, it is pure and sweet, 
and they do all in their power to preserve it in that 
state ; but, in spite of all their etforts, after it has re- 
mained a short time it will become strong, bitter, and 
disagreeable. From our own experience we are in- 
duced to believe, that the greatest part of the fault is 
in the salt which is used in it. We are never able to 
preserve butter in its purity, for any length of time, 
salted with the Liverpool salt ; while the butter made 
in the same way, and salted with the ground rock-salt, 
has been kept a year, retaining the same sweet and 
pleasant flavor it possessed when first taken from the 
churn. That the fine Liverpool salt is not fit to be 
■used to preserve meat or butter is a fact not so gene- 
rally known as it should be ; its convenience for use, 
and white texture, induce people to buy it. But if, 
instead of this, they would purchase the ground rock- 
salt, notwithstanding they would have to pay a higher 
price, they would be gainers in the end. Dr. Mitchell, 
of New York, analyzed the Liverpool salt, and, after 
thoroughly examining its properties, he condemns the 
use for any purpose whatever, and says the loss of 
property consequent upon the employment of this salt 
is prodigious. Experience, year after year, has proved 
it to be incapable of preserving our beef from corrup- 
tion. Often has this important article of food been 
found to be tainted the very autumn in Avhich it has 
been packed in barrels ; besides the sacrifice of pro- 
perty, we find that the employment of Liverpool salt, 
in the packing of beef and pork, leaves them liable to 
corrupt ; and the consequences of this corruption are 
pestilential exhalations, stirring up yellow fever and 



THE DAIRY. 279 

other malignant distempers in the neighborhoods, 
cities, and vessels where the bodies of those slaugh- 
tered animals are deposited. 

The butter of the New York market has also been 
rendered worse, if not absolutely spoiled, by the same 
kind of salt. Beguiled by its fine and showy exte- 
rior, the citizens have used it extensively in our coun- 
try, famous for grazing and dairies. In many cases 
it has supplanted the old-fashioned coarse or sun- 
made salt. Whenever the substitution has been 
made, it has been with a pernicious effect. The but- 
ter so salted does not keep so well, and loses its 
agreeable odor. The difference between butter put 
up with this salt, and with natural crystallized salt, 
is so great, that our wholesale and retail grocers can 
distinguish it at once by the smell, on piercing or 
opening a firkin. The sweet flavor and nice odor 
which pure sea salt gives is altogether wanting in that 
which we get from Liverpool. The fault of Liv- 
erpool salt, and of all other salt obtained from sea- 
water by force of fire or by boiling, is its admixture 
with foreign ingredients, known by the technical 
names of slack and bittern. These usually adhere to 
sea salt in considerable quantities. They have no an- 
tiseptic virtues, but possess a directly contrary effect. 
Sea salt, formed by natural evaporation and crystal- 
lization, has very little mixture with these foul and 
foreign ingredients. 

PACKING BUTTER. 

Take a stone pot, or jar, that will hold thirty or 
forty pounds; clean it thoroughly, and wash it in 
cold, strong brine. Take new, sweet butter, well 
made and free from buttermilk; work it well, and 



280 THE DAIRY. 

put a layer of it, a few inches in thickness, in the 
jar ; beat it down solid with a wooden beater, turn- 
ing off the milk that will escape occasionally ; then 
repeat the process, until the pot is filled within an 
inch and a half of the top with butter thoroughly 
pounded down ; on the top of this pour one inch of 
clear brine, made by dissolving salt in warm water, 
and put on when cold ; cork the jar tight, and tie 
over a cloth or piece of buckskin ; keep the jar at a 
low temperature, and the butter will keep good and 
sweet for an indefinite length of time, only needing 
examining occasionally to see that it is covered with 
the brine, and renewing it if necessary. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



BATHING. 

Ip every morning, and, when the heat is oppressive, 
every evening, the whole surface of the body were 
bathed in water, fresh from the pump or well, with a 
sponge, or rubbed well with the hands, so that the 
pores are cleansed, and the skin rubbed dry, the 
population of the city and country in which so excel- 
lent a custom prevailed would be remarkable for 
health, let the climate be as it might. A strong 
nerve, and solidity of flesh, would be gained by the 
process, which would set the heat of summer, and the 
cold of winter, at defiance. Thousands of diseases 
which now haunt our crowded communities would 
become obsolete. Thirst would not be so much ex- 
cited, and the temptation to dekige the stomach with 
fluids would be removed. Perhaps, among all the 
evil practices which produce disease and weakness, 
none is more injurious, or prevalent, than the habit 
of impairing digestion by filling the stomach with 
fluids. As remarked before, a healthy state of the 
skiu would diminish the practice by taking away the 
inducement. Upon mothers, nurses, and others who 
have charge of children, the frequent lavations of 
24 * ( 281 ) 



282 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

their little charge cannot be too much urged. Phy- 
sicians tell us that two-thirds of the infantile diseases 
which occur, owe their origin and their aggravation 
to a neglect of cleanliness. It is not enough that a 
child's face is clean ; the whole body should be so 
frequently washed, that the skin may perform the 
functions for which nature intended and curiously 
constructed it. 

The annexed rules (which experience has esta- 
blished, and physiology approved) are submitted for 
the benefit of bathers : — 

1. Bathe one hour before breakfast, or, what is 
much better, one hour before dinner. 

3. N'ever take the cold bath when the temperature 
of the bod}' is below the natural standard. 

4. To prepare the tepid bath, which is the best in 
a warm climate, the rule should be this: — Bring 
the water to that temperature which feels neither 
hot nor cold to the arm, or some part of the body 
usually covered, and, after entering the bath, raise its 
heat to that point which imparts the most agreeable 
feeling. 

5. "We should take exercise before and after the 
warm bath; the importance of this is every day 
evinced where bathing is practised. 

6. After leaving the water, the body should be 
briskly wiped with a coarse towel, and immediately 
covered with sufficient clothing to excite or preserve 
the healthy temperature. 

7. We should never remain long in the water; 
from ten to fifteen minutes is sufficient. 

8. Every second or third day is often enough to 
take the bath. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 283 



THE TIME REQUIRED TO DIGEST DIFFERENT ARTICLES 
OF FOOD. 

Hours. Min. 

Boiled rice 1 00 

Sago, tapioca, barley, and boiled milk... 2 15 

Tripe and pigs' feet 1 00 

Fowls, and beeves' liver 2 30 

Hard eggs 3 30 

Soft eggs 3 00 

Custard 2 45 

Trout, boiled or fried 1 30 

Other fresh fish 3 00 

Beef, rare or roasted 3 00 

Dry, roasted 3 30 

Salt beef, with mustard 2 30 

Pickled pork 4 30 

Eaw pork 3 00 

Roasted pork, fat and lean 5 15 

Fried pork. 4 15 

Stewed pork 3 00 

Mutton broiled 3 00 

Mutton boiled 3 00 

Veal fried 4 30 

Fowls boiled 4 00 

Fowls roasted 4 00 

Ducks roasted 4 00 

"Wild ducks roasted 4 30 

Suet, beef fresh, boiled 5 00 

Suet, mutton, boiled 4 30 

Butter melted 3 30 

Mutton, fresh 3 15 

Veal, fresh, broiled 4 00 

Wheat bread, fresh baked 3 30 

Corn bread 3 15 



284 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

Hours. Min. 

Sponge cake 2 30 

Succatash 3 45 

Apple dumplings 3 00 

Apples, sour and mellow 2 00 

Apples, sweet and mellow 1 30 

Parsnips boiled 2 30 

Potatoes boiled 3 30 

Potatoes roasted 2 30 

Raw cabbage 2 30 

Raw, with vinegar 2 00 

Cabbage boiled 4 30 

Cheese, old 3 30 

Soup beef, vegetables, and bread.. 4 00 

Barley soup 1 30 

Chicken soup 3 00 

Oyster soup 3 30 

Green corn and beans 3 45 

Hash, meat, and vegetables 2 30 

Sausage, fresh broiled 3 20 

Codfish, boiled 2 00 

Oysters, fresh and raw 2 55 

Oysters roasted 3 15 

Oysters stewed 3 30 

Salmon, salted and boiled 4 00 



METHOD OF RESTORING LIFE TO THE APPARENTLY 
DROWNED, 

Recommended hy the Royal Humane Society of England, instituted in 
1774. 

Avoid ail rough usage. Do not hold up the body 
by the feet, nor roll it on casks, nor rub it with salt, 
or spirits, or apply tobacco. Lose not a moment in 
carrying the body to the nearest house, with the 



MEDICAL KECEIPTS. 285 

hands and shoulders raised. Place it in a warm 
room, if the weather is cold. Preserve silence, and 
positively admit no more than three intelligent per- 
sons. Let the body be instantly stripped, dried, and 
wrapped in hot blankets, which are frequently to be 
renewed. Keep the mouth, nostrils, and throat free 
and clean. Apply warm substances to the back, 
spine, pit of the stomach, armpits, and soles of the 
feet. Rub the body with heated flannel, or cotton, 
or warm hands. Attempt to restore breathing by 
gently blowing with a bellows in one nostril, closing 
the mouth and other nostril. Press down the breast 
carefully with both hands, and then let it rise again, 
and thus imitate natural breathing. Keep up the 
application of heat ; continue the rubbing ; increase 
it when life appears, and then give a teaspoonful of 
warm water, or very weak brandy and water, or wine 
and water. Persevere for six hours. Send quickly 
for medical assistance. 

EEMEDY IN CASE OF SWALLOWING PINS, FISH OR OTHER 
SHARP BONES. 

Administer four grains of tartar emetic in warm 
water, and let the patient drink the white from six 
eggs, which, coagulating upon the stomach before the 
tartar operates, envelopes the piece or bone, and it is 
brought up. A person who had swallowed several 
pins was made to throw up the whole by the above 
method. 

TO STOP BLOOD. 

It has been found that soot applied to a fresh 
wound will not only stop the bleeding, but ease the 
pain. 



286 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



A STYPTIC, WHICH WILL STOP THE BLEEDING OF THE 
LARGEST VESSELS. 

Scrape fine two drachms of castile soap, and dis- 
solve it in two ounces of brandy, or other common 
spirits. Mix well with it one drachm of potash, and 
keep it in a close phial. "When applied, warm it, and 
dip pledgets of lint, and the blood will suddenly 
coagulate some distance within the vessel. For deep 
wounds and amputated limbs, repeated applications 
may be necessary. 

BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. 

Bathe the nose in vinegar. 

TO CLEANSE THE TEETH, AND IMPROVE THE BREATH. 

To four ounces of fresh prepared lime-water add 
one drachm of Peruvian bark, and wash the teeth 
with the water in the morning before breakfast, and 
after supper. It will effectually destroy the tartar 
on the teeth, and remove the offensive smell arising 
from those decayed. 

FROST BITTEN. 

Bathe the affected parts in warm beef pickle. 

BURDON'S EXCELLENT OINTMENT. 

Yellow resin, the size of a hen's egg, to be meltea 
in an earthen-pot over a slow fire, to which, add the 
same quantity of beeswax ; when melted, add half a 
pound of hog's lard, and, when that is dissolved, add 
two ounces of honey, and half a pound of common 
turpentine, and keep gently boiling a few minutes, 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 287 

Stirring all the time ; take it off the fire, and when it 
has cooled a little, stir into it two ounces of verdigris, 
finely powdered ; then give the whole a few minutes 
gentle boiling, and pour through a sieve for use. 
Nothing takes fire out of a burn or scald in human 
flesh so soon as this ointment. It is equally good for 
cuts and bruises, and putrefying sores, and might be 
denominated, with propriety, the universal remedy. 

OPODELDOC. 

Take of Castile soap, powdered, three ounces; 
camphor, one ounce ; brand}^ one pint. Dissolve the 
soap in the spirits, by the fire, then add the camphor. 

CURE FOR THE STING OF A WASP OR BEE. 

Apply an onion, by binding it to the part affected, 
which is stated to be a certain cure. 

ANOTHER. 

Bind on the place a thick plaster of common salt 
moistened : it will soon extract the venom. 

CURE FOR A SNAKE OR SPIDER BITE. 

Take the yolk of an egg, stir with it as much salt 
as will make it thick enough not to run. Spread a 
plaster, and apply it to the wound. 

CURE FOR THE BITE OF THE VIPER OR RATTLESNAKE, NO. L 

In some parts of the world many persons pro- 
cure their livelihood by catching vipers. They are 
employed by chemists, apothecaries, &c. I remem- 
ber some years ago, while in England, to have 
read in the Royal Society, in London, a curious cir- 
cumstance of one of these viper-catchers. A member 



288 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

of the society had casually received information that 
a man engaged in this business was frequently bitten, 
and that he cured himself with sweet-oil. After con- 
siderable inquiry, the viper-catcher was found, and 
the questions asked whether he cured himself by the 
oil, and whether he was willing to satisfy a number 
of gentlemen of the fact. The man answered in the 
affirmative to both questions. Accordingly a very 
numerous meeting of the Royal Society was convened, 
including a considerable number of the nobility. The 
viper-catcher attended, accompanied by his wife and 
a large viper ; and laying his arm naked to the shoul- 
der, suffered the irritated reptile to strike, which it 
did very forcibly. His wife permitted the poison to 
operate, till her husband's head, face, and tongue, 
were greatl}' swollen, his arm and face turned very 
black, and his senses much affected, when she applied 
the oil by pouring a small quantity down his throat, 
and bathing the part bitten. The man gradually re- 
covered. The circumstance being strongly impressed 
upon my mind, and knowing the poison of an Eng- 
lish viper is considered in that country the most 
venomous in nature, determined me to try its power 
in the bite of a rattlesnake, the first opportunity that 
should offer in the district that I reside in. Afterward 
I was travelling through Pendleton, South Carolina, 
and met a man who inquired of me if I could assist 
to relieve the pain of a person who had been bitten 
by a large rattlesnake. Although sorry for the man's 
misfortune, I rejoiced at the opportunity thus ofl'ered 
to ascertain fully the properties of sweet-oil as au 
antidote to this deadly poison. Having a phial of 
tliis oil in my pocket, I hastened to the suffering crea- 
ture, and on seeing him, his appearance struck me as 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 230 

the most frightful I had ever beheld. His head and 
face were extremely swollen, and the latter black ; 
his tongue proportionably enlarged, and extending 
out of his mouth ; his eyes appeared as if they would 
shoot from their sockets, and his senses gave every 
appearance of death. He had been bitten on the 
side of the foot. I immediately, but with great dif- 
ficulty, poured down his throat two tablespoonsful of 
the oil. Its effects were almost instantaneous, and 
exceedingly powerful in counteracting the poison, as 
appeared by the strong, though quick convulsions 
which followed. In about thirty minutes it operated 
strongly, both as an emetic and cathartic, after which 
the swelling of the head, face, &c., gradually abated, 
and the tongue began to assume its place. In two 
hours he was so far recovered as to articulate, and 
from that time recovered fast till he got perfectly 
over it. The oil inwardly taken, and externally ap- 
plied, did not exceed seven spoonsful. The number 
of cases of the like nature in twelve years has been 
considerable to which sweet oil has proved itself to 
be peculiarly adapted, and fully adequate to the worst 
of cases, if timely applied. It is a remedy which 
ever}' person can command (when others cannot be 
procured), and ought not to be without. Indeed, 
many cautious persons have carried a small phial of 
oil constantly about them. It has also been used 
with equal success, when horses, cattle, dogs, &c., 
have been bitten. One case I am credibly informed, 
occurred where the oil succeeded when given to a 
woman who had been bitten by a small dog, and who 
exhibited strong symptoms of hydrophobia. 

25 



290 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

CURE FOR THE BITE OF THE VIPER OR RATTLESNAKE, NO. II. 
A weed with a smooth leaf, and bulbous, milky 
root,, known by the name of " Lion's tongue," when 
applied in a proper manner, is a good remedy. 
Mode of application : take a handful of the roots, 
wash clean, and boil in sweet milk. Let the patient 
drink occasionally of the milk thus boiled, and apply 
the root as a poultice to the wound, keeping it moist 
with the milk. 

CURE FOR THE BITE OF THE VIPER OR RATTLESNAKE, NO. III. 

A simple and convenient remedy is alum. A piece 
the size of a hickory-nut, dissolved in water and 
drunk, or chewed and swallowed, is sufficient. It 
has been tried many times on men and dogs, and 
they have invariably recovered. 

TO CURE THE BITE OF A RATTLESNAKE, OR MAD DOG. 

It is said that a strong decoction of the boiled bark 
of the root of the black-ash will cure the bite of a 
' rattlesnake, or mad dog. Take a wine-glass full three 
times a day, for nine days. 

CURE FOR HYDROPHOBIA, NO. I. 

Take two ounces of the fresh leaves of the tree- 
box ; two ounces of the fresh leaves of rue ; one half- 
ounce of sage ; chop these fine, and boil in a pint of 
water, down to a half-pint ; strain carefully, and press 
out the liquor very firmly. Put back the ingredients 
again, and add a pint of milk, and boil down again 
to half a pint, and strain as before ; then mix both 
liquors together, of which, give one-third part, each 
subsequent morning, fasting. As it possesses no 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 291 

power to relieve the disease itself, but is given merely 
as a preventive, any time between the reception of 
the bite and the first appearance of the symptoms is 
the proper period for administering it. 

CURE FOR HYDROPHOBIA, NO. II. 

For the bite of a mad dog, let the person bit, im- 
mediately drink a pint of good white-wine vinegar; 
repeat this three mornings, fasting, and wash the part 
well with vinegar at the fire ; then take a large spoon- 
ful of the juice of rue three mornings, fiisting; after 
the vinegar, before you take the rue, let about eight 
ounces of blood be t^ken away. 

ANTIDOTE FOR POISON BY ARSENIC. 

Salad or olive oil taken warm, and repeated occa- 
sionally, will infallibly prevent any bad consequences, 
if the arsenic has not been taken very long before. 
It is the true antidote for arsenic, and should imme- 
diately be made use of, as soon as it is discovered that 
any person has swallowed it by mistake or otherwise. 
A gentle vomit given just after taking it, and then re- 
peatedly drinking very fat mutton broth, will effec- 
tually cure it ; by this method. Sir Hans Sloane saved 
the life of a young man, who, at his house at Chelsea. 
had drunk a quantity of milk, into which arsenic had 
been put to poison rats. 

ONIONS, AN ANTIDOTE FOR POISON. 

I once knew a man who took eleven grains of 
arsenic in warm tea, in order to kill himself. 
Three physicians exerted their skill to save him, 
but to no purpose. By their consent, another per- 
son proposed onions, which were immediately ap- 



292 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

plied to his stomach, arm-pits, wrists, and all the 
tender parts of his body. Though he was much 
swelled, he immediately began to recover, and the 
next day went to his work. It appeared like a miracle 
to all who witnessed it. 

A REMEDY FOR ARSENIC. 

Tobacco is said to be an infallible preventive 
against the fatal eifects of arsenic, when taken into 
the stomach. In several instances where tobacco- 
juice was swallowed after taking arsenic, no sickness 
resulted from the use of the tobacco, and not the least 
harm from the arsenic. 

CURE FROM POISON, BY NEGRO C^SAR, 

For the discovery of which, the Assembly of South Carolina purchased his 
freedom, and gave him an aiinuity of five hundred dollars. 

Take roots of plantain and wild hoarhound, fresh 
or dried, three ounces each ; boil them together in 
two quarts of water, down to one quart, and strain it. 
Of this decoction let the patient take one-third part 
three mornings successively, on a fasting stomach; 
from which, if he finds any relief, it must be continued 
until he is perfectly recovered. On the contrary, if he 
finds no alteration after the third dose, it is a sign 
that the patient has not been poisoned at all, or that 
it has been with such poison as Caesar's antidote will 
not remedy — so he may leave off the decoction. 

During the cure, the patient must live on spare 
diet, and abstain from eating mutton, pork, butter, or 
any other fat or oily food. 

Either the plantain or hoarhound is good alone, 
but they are more efficacious together. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 293 

In summer, you may take one handful of the roots 
and branches of each, in place of three ounces of the 
roots of each. 

FOR DRINK DURING THE CURE. 

Take of the roots of golden rod, six ounces, or in 
summer, two large handsful of the roots and branches 
together, and boil them in two quarts of water, down 
to one quart; to which also may be added a little 
hoarhound and sassafras. To this decoction, after it 
is strained, add a glass of rum or brandy, and sweeten, 
it with sugar for ordinary drink. Sometimes an in- 
ward fever attends such as are poisoned, in which 
case do as follows : — 

Take one pint of wood-ashes, and three pints of 
water; stir and mix them well together; let them 
stand all night, and strain off the ley in the morning, 
of which ten ounces may be taken, six mornings in 
succession, warmed or cold, according to the weather. 

SYMPTOMS ATTENDING SUCH AS ARE POISONED. 

A pain in the breast, difficulty of breathing, a load 
at the pit of the stomach, an irregular pulse, burning 
and violent pains of the viscera above and below the 
navel ; restlessness at night ; sometimes wandering 
pains over the whole body ; a retching inclination to 
vomit ; profuse sweats (Avhich prove always service- 
able); slimy stools, both when costive and loose; the 
face of a pale yellow color; sometimes a pain and 
inflammation of the throat ; the appetite is generally 
weak. Those who have been long poisoned, are 
generally very feeble and weak in their limbs ; the 
whole skin peels, and the hair falls off. 
25* 



294 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

Cases of poison frequently occur, especially in the 
southern part of the United States, from coming in 
contact with a common "plant," called "Poison Oak." 
The skin once affected, almost invariably breaks out 
at the same period of the year, for many years in 
succession. 

We give below a prescription which cured every 
case in which it has been used. 

Compound S3'rup of sarsaparilla, one pint, 
lodid of potash, one drachm. 
Corrosive sublimate, two grains. 

First rub the corrosive sublimate and potash toge- 
ther in a little alcohol. After it completely dissolves, 
add the syrup gradually, while you continue the rub- 
bing, until the whole be thoroughly mixed. Bottle 
it, and take for a dose one hour before, or three hours 
after each meal, one tablespoonful ; keep the bowels 
gently open, and live lightly. The parts affected 
should, in addition, be thoroughly washed three or 
four times a day with tincture of lobelia. 

FOR BURN, SCALD AND CHILBLAINS. 

Apply strong alum water ; keep it ready prepared 
in a bottle. Apply it by wetting a cloth-compress, 
and renew it until the inflamation is removed. 

REMEDY FOR BURNS. 

For fourteen years I have prescribed the following 
remed}^, and think that no disease or injury to the 
human system has a more certain one than this is 
for the most distressing of all injuries, that of scalds 
and burns. The first knowledge I had of it was the 
almost miraculous cure of a little boy who fell into a 
half-hogshead of boiling water, prepared for scalding 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 295 

hogs. The entire person and limbs of the boy passed 
under the scalding water up to the chin, so as to 
scald his whole neck. On removing his clothes, 
nearly all the skin followed from his neck, hands, 
arms, chest, back, abdomen, and almost every bit of 
skin from his lower extremities. In this deplorable 
condition, literally flayed alive with scalding water, 
the remedy was applied, as a momentary application, 
until medical help should arrive. Two eminent 
physicians soon came, and on hearing of the extent 
of the scald, pronounced it a certainly fatal case, and 
directed the boy to remain with the remedy over him 
until he should die. In six weeks he was restored 
quite well, with scarcely a scar on any part of his 
person or limbs. 

The remedy is the more valuable from the fact, 
that, under almost all circumstances, it may be 
obtained. It is as follows : — Take soot from a chim- 
ney where wood is burned, rab it fine, and mix 
one part of soot with three parts or nearly so of 
hogs' lard, fresh butter, or any kind of animal grease 
that is not salted. Spread this on linen, or muslin, 
or any cotton, for easier or more perfect application. 

In case of very extensive burns or scalds the cloth 
should be torn into strips of suitable size and shape, 
before putting over the scald. Let the remedy be 
freely and fully applied, so as perfectly to cover all 
the burned parts. Ko other measure is required 
until the patient is well, except to renew, at proper 
intervals, applications of the soot and lard. In steam- 
boat explosions this remedy can in nearly all cases 
be at once applied ; and if resorted to at once, in such 
emergencies, many valuable lives would doubtless be 
saved, and a vast amount of suftering alleviated. 



296 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



REMEDY FOR TOOTH-ACHE. 

A remedy for this most painful affliction, which 
has succeeded in ninety-five cases out of a hundred, 
is alum reduced to an impalpable powder two drachms, 
nitrous spirit of ether seven drachms, mixed and 
applied to the tooth. 

ANOTHER. 

Make a solution of camphor and pulverized cayenne 
pepper : dip in this a small quantity of raw cotton, 
and apply it to the affected tooth, and it will give 
instant relief. To prevent the composition from 
getting to the throat, lay a bit of rag over it for a few 
moments. 

CURE FOR GANGRENE. 

In a fight between a party of Indians, and a small 
party of Americans, in Texas, a leg of one of the 
party was shattered during the action by a musket- 
ball, and mortified ; and having no surgical instru- 
ments, nor medicine of any kind, some live-oak bark 
was boiled very strong, and thickened with pow- 
dered charcoal and Indian-meal, and a poultice of 
it tied round his leg, over which was sewed a Buffalo 
skin, and the party travelled along five days without 
looking at it. "When it was opened, the mortified 
parts had all dropped off", and it was in a fair way for 
healing, which it finally did. 

TO PREVENT THE DISCOLORING OF THE SKIN BY A BRUISE. 

Immediately rub on lamp-oil with the hand, or 
apply cloths dipped in hot water until the bruised 
blood disappears. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 297 



TO STOP VOMITING. 

Driuk very warm water, or, apply cloths wet with, 
brandy, warm to the chest. Mustard-plasters are also 
excellent. 

TO CURE SEED WARTS. 

Apply a little aquafortis to their tops two or three 
times a day for a short time. 

A CURE FOR CORNS. 

Dip a small piece of cotton in lamp or whale oil, 
apply it to the corn, and wrap a bandage round it ; 
repeat this for six or eight days, when the corn becomes 
soft, and is easily removed. The experiment has 
been tried with success. 

CURE FOR HEARTBURN. 

Drink a teacupful of camomile tea, or a small 
quantity of chalk, scraped into a glass of water : or 
a small teaspoonful of magnesia in a glass of water. 

AN EXCELLENT PILL FOR INDIGESTION. INACTIVE STATE 
OF THE LIVER. A STATE OF THINGS KNOWN BY THE 
NAME OF DYSPEPSIA. 

Take blue mass, twenty-four grains ; quinine, twenty- 
four grains ; rhubarb, twenty-four grains. Mix with 
compound syrup of rhubarb, or honey, or syrup, and 
divide into twenty-four pills; dose, one pill at bed- 
time. 

REMEDY FOR INDIGESTION. 

Boil half a pint of white wheat three hours in a 
quart of water, or a little more if necessary. Drink 
half a pint of the liquid two or three times a week. 



298 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



CURE FOR CONSTIPATION. 

Take a new-laid egg, raw; add to it three times its 
bulk of cold water ; beat for thirty minutes, and take 
on an empty stomach. It may be taken twice a day ; 
the first time early in the morning, and the second 
time between eleven and twelve o'clock; increase 
the quantity to three eggs in the course of ten days. 
Said to be good for the lungs. 

FOR CONSTIPATION. 

Take nice rye in the grain; soak and boil it 
moderately till perfectly tender, and season it with 
molasses, sugar, or honey. Make it a standing dish 
for breakfast. It may be eaten oftener if necessary. 

AN INFALLIBLE REMEDY FOR A COLD. 

As soon as there are symptoms of a cold, bathe in 
a tub of cold water for a minute or two ; then rub the 
skin well with a coarse towel, until it is perfectly 
dry, and a warm glow is created. 

If it is not convenient to bathe in a tub, sponging 
well, and using friction afterwards, often answers the 
purpose as well. This simple remedy would, in many 
cases, save much suflering, and even life, if attended 
to at the commencement of a cold. 

REMEDY FOR COLDS. 

Take a large teaspoonful of flaxseed, with half a 
stick of liquorice, and a quarter of a pound of sun 
raisins ; put them into two quarts of soft water, and 
let it simmer over a slow fire till it is reduced to one; 
then add to it a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 299 

and a tablespoonful of white wine vinegar, or lemon- 
juice. 

The vinegar should be added only to that quan- 
tity you are going to take ; for if it be put into the 
whole, it is liable in a little time to grow flat. Drink 
half a pint at going to bed, and take a little when the 
cough is troublesome. 

This receipt generally cures the worst of colds in 
two or three days. It is a balsam cordial for the 
lungs, without the opening qualities which endanger 
fresh colds on going out. It has been known to cure 
colds that have almost been settled into consumptions, 
in less than three weeks. 



CURE FOR INFLUENZA. 

Take equal parts of good vinegar and water : to a 
teacupful of this mixture add one teaspoonful of 
Caj'enne ; sweeten with honey or sugar. Dose : a 
tablespoonful at going to bed, and one during the 
night, if the cough be troublesome. 



A SIMPLE REMEDY FOR A COUGH. 

Sweet spirits of nitre, syrup of squills, and pare- 
goric, each one ounce. Mix, and give a teaspoonful 
for a dose, and repeat at short intervals, until the 
cough is relieved. 



CURE FOR A COUGH. 

Take equal parts of the moss that grows on white 
oak, white maple, and white ash trees. Mix, and 
make a strong tea ; sweeten, and drink freely. 



300 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

CURE FOR WHOOPING-COUGH, NO. I. 

Take equal parts of sweet-oil, honey, and vinegar, 
and simmer together over a fire. Dose : a teaspoon- 
ful, or more, if necessary. 

CURE FOR WHOOPING-COUGH, NO. II. 

Take a good handful of dried colt's-foot leaves, cut 
them small, and boil them in a pint of water, till half 
a pint is boiled away ; then take it ofi' the fire, and 
when it is almost cold, strain it through a cloth, 
squeezing the herb as dry as you can ; and then 
throw it away, and dissolve in the liquor an ounce of 
sugar-candy, finely powdered ; and then give the 
child (if it be about three or four years old, and so in 
proportion) one spoonful of it, cold or warm as the 
seasons prove, three or four times a day, or oftener if 
the fits of coughing come frequently, till well, which 
will be in a few days. 

CURE FOR THE ASTHMA, NO. I. 

One ounce pulverized columbo, one ounce lobelia 
herb, one ounce hira-picra, one ounce skunk cab- 
bage, one ounce assafoetida, one ounce ginger, one 
ounce elecampane, one ounce nerve-powder, one 
ounce rhubarb, one ounce hoarhound, and two quarts 
of good gin. One wine-glassful twice a day. 

CURE FOR THE ASTHMA, NO. II. 

Milk of gum ammoniac, three ounces ; syrup of 
squills, two ounces; wine of ipecac, one ounce; tinc- 
ture of lobelia, half an ounce. Dose : a teaspoonful 
four or five times a day. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 301 

REMEDY FOR CROUP, NO. I. 

Syrup of ipecac, syrup of squills, comp., of each 
one ounce ; tincture of assafoitida, half an ounce. 
Mix. Dose, for a child from two to four years old, 
commence with half a teaspoonful ; increase the dose, 
and repeat^ until free vomiting ensues. At the same 
time this medicine is being given, place the child in 
a tub of water as warm as it can be borne. When 
the child is taken from the bath, have ready a hot 
mush poultice covered with mustard, which you will 
apply to its throat and breast. Should the above not 
relieve, give five or six grains of calomel, and cup 
freely over the upper part of the chest. 

REMEDY FOR CROUP, NO. II. 

Cut onions into thin slices ; between and over them 
put brown sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, a 
teaspoonful will frequently produce immediate relief. 

Cause of Croup in Infants : — Eberle, in his excel- 
lent work on the diseases of children, says that the 
mode of dressing infants with their necks and upper 
part of the breast bare, cannot fail to render them 
subject to the influence of cold, and its dangerous 
consequences. In the country, especially among the 
Germans, who are in the habit of clothing their chil- 
dren in such a manner as to leave no part of the 
breast and lower portion of the neck exposed, croup 
is an exceeding rare disease. Whereas in cities, or 
among people who adopt the modes of dress common 
in cities, this frightful disease is, in proportion to the 
population, vastly more frequent. 
26 



302 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

REMEDY FOR CROUP, NO. III. 

If a child is taken witli the croup, instantly apply 
cold water, ice-water if possible, suddenly and freely 
to the neck and chest with a sponge ; the breathing 
will almost instantly be relieved. So soon as possi- 
ble, let the suiferer drink as much as it can, then 
wipe it dry, cover it up warm, and soon a quiet slum- 
ber will relieve the parent's anxiety. 

PUTRID SORE THROAT. 

Take one ounce of Jesuit's bark, one ounce of gum 
myrrh ; boil both in two quarts of water, over a gen- 
tle fire ; strain it, and give a tablespoonful every hour, 
after gargling with sage, honey, and saltpetre. 

FOR SORE THROAT, AND DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING. 

Mix a half-teaspoonful of camphor with a wine- 
glass of brandy ; drop a little on a lump of sugar, and 
let a lump melt in the mouth hourly. The third or 
fourth generally enables the patient to swallow with 
ease. 

THE PILES. 

Take a lump of strong British alum, about two 
inches in length, which smooth down with a knife to 
the thickness of three-quarters of an inch. Apply 
this, first wetting it with cold water, every morning 
and evening for five or seven days. 

RHEUMATIC OIL, NO. I. 

Two ounces of sweet-oil, one ounce of cajeput. 
Mix well together. Rub the parts afiected. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 303 

RHEUMATIC OIL, NO. II. 

Equal proportions of sweet-oil, camplior-water, and 
hartshorn. Mix well, and rub the parts affected. 

REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM, NO. I. 

Take a plant known as wild arsenic, or wild rats- 
bane ; wash the dirt off, and put it, roots and all, into 
common whiskey, in such quantity that, after steep- 
ing twenty-four hours, the liquor will assume a 
blackish appearance. Rub this on the part diseased, 
as hard as the pain will allow, for about fifteen 
minutes ; and also have flannel cloths dipped into it, 
and spread on the parts affected ; repeat three times 
a day. If the pain is much increased while the flan- 
nel is on, remove it in ten or fifteen minutes. 

REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM, NO. II. 

Take half a pound of sarsaparilla, three ounces of 
mezereon ; three of lignum-vitse chips, three of light- 
wood, or pitch-pine knots, and four of sassafras-root. 
Chop all these woods fine ; put them in three gallons 
of water, and boil to one gallon. When cool, bottle 
it, adding to each one gill of good spirits, to prevent 
spoiling. Take one gill of the decoction night and 
morning, with a teaspoonful of the volatile tincture 
of guaiacum. 

INFALLIBLE CURE FOR DYSENTERY, NO. I. 

We can confidently recommend the following recipe 
in the treatment of dysentery, and other forms of 
bowel disease : — 

Castor-oil, two ounces ; bi-carb. soda, one ounce ; 
spirits turpentine, half-ounce ; powdered gum-arabic, 
one ounce ; loaf-sugar, one ounce ; compound spirits 



304 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

lavender, half-ounce ; camphor-water, sufficient to 
make eight ounces of the mixture. 

Dose for an adult — Begin with a teaspoonful every 
two hours, and increase to a tablespoonful, as the 
stomach will bear it. 

Since dysentery has become one of the most 
dreaded scourges of the South, and since many of the 
regular forms of practice have proved unsuccessful in 
its treatment, we take much pleasure in presenting 
this prescription to the public. In connection with 
the above, we advise the use of an occasional 
opiate, either by mouth or injection, to procure rest 
and relief from pain. In conclusion, we advise a 
regular application of hot mustard poultices over the 
seat of the disease. 

CURE FOR DYSENTERY, NO. II. —VERY RELIABLE. 

Six ounces of red oak bark, six large pods of red 
pepper, two ounces of cloves, six ounces of loaf-sugar, 
tv,-o pints of pure spirits, brandy or whiskey. Boil 
the red oak in a half-gallon of water, until it is re- 
duced to half the quantity. Strain it, and add the 
pepper, cloves and sugar. Boil together five minutes, 
and while hot add the spirits. Dose : one tablespoon- 
ful for an adult. 

DYSENTERY OR FLUX. 

Take one pound of gum-arabic, one ounce gum 
tragacanth. dissolved in two quarts of soft water, and 
strained. Then take one pound of cloves, half a 
pound of cinnamon, half a pound of allspice, boil 
in two quarts of soft water, and strain. Add it to the 
gums, boil all together over a slow fire, and stir into 
it two pounds of loaf-sugar. Strain the whole again 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 305 

when you take it oiF; and when it is cool, add to it a 
half-pint sweet tincture of rhubarb, and a pint and a. 
half of best brandy. Cork it tight in bottles, as the 
gums will sour if exposed. If corked properly, it will 
keep for years. 

This is very useful in bowel diseases among chil- 
dren. 

FOR CHOLERA MORBUS. 

Take spirits of camphor, two tablespoonsful ; lauda- 
num, two tablespoonsful ; spirits of turpentine, two 
tablespoonsful ; essence of peppermint, one table- 
spoonful. Mix, and give a teaspoonful every ten or 
fifteen minutes, until the patient is relieved. 

This is an excellent remedy. 

FOR CHOLERA. 

For premonitory symptoms of cholera, diarrhcea, 
dysentery, cramp colic, and cholera morbus, the fol- 
lowing recipe may be relied on : — 

One pint of good brandy, one ounce of laudanum, 
one ounce of gum camphor, half ounce of Cayenne 
pepper. Mix well together, and for dose take one 
teaspoonful. 

DIARRHCEA, 

Rhubarb, six ounces; catechu, three ounces; gin- 
ger, four ounces ; cloves, two ounces ; spirits of cin- 
nam<m, one-fourth of a pint; laudanum, four ounces; 
spirits of camphor, two ounces ; simple syrup, two 
pints; diluted alcohol, one gallon. Mix, and let it 
stand fourteen days ; then bottle it. Dose : a table- 
spoonful ; repeat according to circumstances. 
26* 



306 MEDICAL KECEIPTS. 

CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 

To as much blackberry-root as y(va can grasp in 
your hand, put two gallons of water, and boil down 
to half a gallon. Add a tablespoonful of beaten 
cloves, cinnamon, and enough loaf-sugar to make it 
sweet. Boil all together, strain, and when cool, add 
a fourth as much good brandy as you have of the 
liquor. Take a tablespoonful three times a day, and 
oftener, if necessary. 

FOR BOWEL COMPLAINT. 

Take half an ounce of rhubarb, half an ounce of 
calcined magnesia, and two tablespoonsful of loaf- 
sugar. Rub these in a mortar, and put them in a 
bottle. Add one teaspoonful of laudanum ; two of 
essence of mint; two of hartshorn; one tablespoon- 
ful of red lavender; two gills of old brandy, and four 
gills of water. Shake it well before using. Give a 
dessert spoonful, night and morning, or oftener, if 
necessary. 

RED MIXTURE FOR SUMMER COMPLAINT. 

Mix with two ounces of water, two drops of the 
oil of spearmint, sixteen grains of pulverized rhubarb, 
thirty of soda, fifty of prepared chalk, and cork 
tightly. A teaspoonful for a child, tablespoonful for 
a grown person. 

COLIC. 

An attack of colic is often instantly relieved, by 
the following dose : — 

Castor-oil, two tablespoonsful ; laudanum, one 
teaspoonful ; spirits of turpentine, one tablespoonful. 
Take the above for one dose, and repeat, if necessary. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 307 



CURE FOR COLIC. 



One ounce of cloves, two ounces of cinnamon, two 
ounces of ginger-root pared, two ounces of allspice, 
three drachms oil of lavender, one and a half pints of 
alcohol; pulverize and mix together. Set it in the 
sun for ten days, shake often, then strain, and it will 
be fit for use. Dose: a teaspoonful on sugar, accord- 
ing to circumstances, till relief is obtained. 

FOR CLEANSING AND PURIFYING THE BLOOD. 

Take one pound of sarsaparilla, a half-pound of 
guaiacum shavings, one ounce of sassafras, half-pound 
of elder-flowers, half-pound of alder-buds, half-pound 
of burdock-root ; put all these together, and add two 
quarts of boiling water to one-third of it. Take a 
wine-glassful three times a day, and a dose of pills 
once or twice a week. 



FOR RING-WORM, SHINGLES, AND SOME OTHER DISEASES 
OF THE SKIN. 

Tincture of Spanish flies, one ounce and a half; 
kreosote, one drachm ; acetic acid, a half-ounce ; oil 
of bergamot, ten drops ; mix together. When used, 
the vial should be well shaken. Apply by moisten- 
ug the end of the finger, or a small rag, and rub the 
parts aflected three times a day. This daily applica- 
tion should be continued until small blisters, or 
pimples, appear, when it should be discontinued. 
The disease is generally cured when the blisters dry 
up : should the cure not be efliected, apply the medi- 
cine the second time, as at first. 



308 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

REMEDY FOR ITCH, NO. I. 

Brown soap, one ounce ; common salt, half an 
ounce ; sulphur, half an ounce ; alcohol, a teaspoon- 
ful ; vinegar, a tablespoonful ; chloride of lime, a half 
drachm. Rub well together ; one-fourth to be used, 
night and morning, as a friction. It is effectual, 
cheap, and inoffensive. 

REMEDY FOR ITCH, NO. II. 

Take black pepper, ginger, and brimstone, each of 
equal parts; a little West India rum, and a little lard: 
all well mixed, as a salve. Rub a little on your hands, 
hold them to the fire, and smell for a few minutes ; 
repeat it several times a day. 

RING-WORMS. 

Rub mercurial ointment on, at night, and repeat it, 
as often as is necessary. 

CURE FOR TETTER, OR RING-WORM. 

After I had the tetter-worm for nearly twenty years 
on my hand, a friend advised me to take some blood- 
root, (called also red-root, Indian paint, &c.,) slice it 
in vinegar, and afterward wash the place affected, 
with the liquid. I suppose the vinegar extracted the 
strength out of the root, for in a few days the dry 
scurf was removed, and my diseased hand appeared 
as whole as the other. I could scarcely believe that 
a perfect cure was so speedily accomplished by this 
simple remedy ; but as nearly two years have passed 
without the least appearance of its return, I need no 
longer doubt the fact, and for the benefit of others I 
wish the value of the red-root more generally known. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 809 

The red-root grows about a foot hiirh in rich wood- 
land, and flowers in April. The leaf is roundish and 
deeply indented, sonaewhat like the white-oak leaves, 
stems naked, supporting single flowers, blossoms 
white. When the fresh root, which is about the size 
of the little finger, and blood-red, is broken, a juice 
issues in large drops resembling blood. 

SALT RHEUM. 

Take one quart of tar; add two gallons of water; 
let it stand two or three days, stirring it occasionally; 
then soak, or pour off' the water, and put into bottles. 
Take half a teacupful three times a day, before eating. 
The following ointment should be made and used ex- 
ternally, while drinking tar-water: — Take the yolk 
of an egg ; the same size, of fresh butter ; half the 
size, of tar ; one teaspoonful pulverized cream of tar- 
tar. Mix them together with the point of a knife, 
until it becomes a perfect salve. Anoint the parts 
affected three times a day with this ointment, and the 
cure is effected in two weeks. 

PRICKLY HEAT. 

Mix a good proportion of wheat bran with tepid 
water, and bathe with it three times a day, or if ne- 
cessary, oftener. 

A CURE FOR THRUSH. 

The root called Hog's Tush may be mashed fine, 
and steeped in a little water for two or three hours ; 
then the mouth may be washed with the liquor, sweet- 
ened with sugar, two or three times in the course of 
a day. This is a never-failing remedy, and generally 
two or three applications are sufficient. 



310 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

RUNROUND. 

When the first symptoms of swelling and inflam- 
mation appear, place the finger firm, and with a sharp- 
pointed knife, scratch the nail crosswise, and then 
lengthwise, leaving the whole surface rough and 
white. If neglected till it begins to suppurate, open 
it with a needle, and then scratch the nail. 

CURE FOR A WEN. 

Make a very strong brine, and dip in it a piece of 
flannel two or three times doubled, and apply it to 
the wen, keeping it constantly wet, night and day, 
until a suppuration takes place. 

A SALVE AND WASH FOR ULCERS. 

Salve. — One ounce of rosin. 

Two ounces of bees-wax. 
Four ounces of hog's lard. 
To be simmered together w^ell mixed. 
Wash. — One teaspoonful fine salt. 

One teaspoonful pulverized alum. 
Put into one pint of red shank tea, made pretty strong. 
The ulcer is to be well cleaned with this wash, wiped 
dry, and the place well filled up with fine lint ; then 
apply a plaster of the salve. A fresh plaster should 
be applied every morning. 

TO CURE A CANCER BY EXTRACTING IT. 

Take oxyde of arsenic, and flour of sulphur, each 
one drachm ; spermaceti ointment, one ounce ; add 
all together, and make an ointment, and apply some 
of it, spread on lint, to the ulcer ; let it remain twenty- 
four hours ; then press the ulcer with a soft poultice, 
or simple salve. If necessary, repeat it. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 311 



CURE FOR A CANCER. 



Take the narrow-leafed dock-root, and boil it in 
water till it be quite soft ; then bathe the part affected 
in the decoction, as hot as can be borne, three or four 
times a day ; the root must then be mashed and ap- 
plied as a poultice. 

AN EFFECTUAL CURE FOR A FELON. 

Bathe the part affected in ashes and water ; take 
the yolk of an egg, six drops of spirits of turpentine 
a few beet-leaves cut fine, a small quantity of hard 
soap, one teaspoonful of snuff, or fine tobacco ; then 
add one tablespoonful of burned salt, and one of In- 
dian-meal ; it never fails to effect a cure, if applied in 
season. 

ANOTHER, 

Take of rock, or any other table-salt, one ounce ; 
hard soap, one ounce ; spirits of turpentine, half an 
ounce ; roast the salt, rolled in a cabbage-leaf or wet 
paper, for twenty or thirty minutes, then pulverize it; 
mix with the soap, previously shaved down, and add 
the spirits of turpentine, which will make a soft salve 
or poultice. This must be applied to the affected 
part, and renewed as often as it becomes dry. If 
applied before it suppurates, it will prevent the for- 
mation of matter by three or four hours' application ; 
if not applied until suppuration begins, it will stop its 
progress; but the matter must be let out, when the 
ulcer will be healed by the same means as in any 
other case of the like kind. 



312 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



CURE FOR THE POLYPUS IN THE NOSE. 

Take one half-onnce of blood-root finely pulver- 
ized, and sift it, and one drachm of calomel ; mix 
them together for a sternutatory. A small pinch 
of this powder is to be snuffed up the nostril three 
times a day, and a syringe of the following wash is to 
be thrown up the nostrils twice a day: — Dissolve 
half an ounce of powdered alum in a gill of brandy; 
shake the vial until it is dissolved. 

ANOTHER. 

Take of blood-root and bayberry-root bark, equal 
parts mixed, made fine, and used as a snuff several 
times a day. 

CURE FOR THE DROPSY, NO. I. 

Take cinders from a blacksmith's shop, and beat 
them fine, sift them, and take out the coarse particles ; 
mix the fine cinders with a pint of hone}', until it is 
stiff enough to lie on the point of a case-knife, not 
hard like pills. Give the patient as much as will lie 
on tlie point of a case-knife, three times a day, morn- 
ing, noon, and night. This mixture is verj' purgative, 
and will cause the patient to discharge great quantities 
of water, both purgatively and by urine. The potion 
may be given according to the operation : if the quan- 
tity appears to be too severe, give less ; if it does not 
operate enough, give more, and continue it until the 
swelling is gone. 

The patient may eat any diet but milk, of which he 
should not taste a drop ; neither use any other medi- 
cine while taking the above. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 313 

CURE FOR THE DROPSY, NO. II. 

Sulphate of potash, two ounces ; cream of tartar, 
two ounces ; powdered squills, one drachm ; tartar 
emetic, one grain. Mix the whole. Dose : a table- 
spoonfui two or three times a day, until it operates on 
the bowels; then a spoonful; and if it does not 
operate, add a tablespoonful of jalap to the whole 
mixture. 

CURE FOR JAUNDICE, NO. I. 

Rhubarb root, gum aloes, orange-peel, canella bark, 
gentian root, columbo root, coriander seed, of each 
two drachms. Bruise, and add a quart of good spirits. 
To prevent chills, add three or four drachms of Peru- 
vian bark. Dose : a tablespoonful three or four times 
a day. 

CURE FOR JAUNDICE, NO. II. 

Take of the bark of the wild-cherry tree, and the 
bark of sassafras root, which steep in good rum, and 
take a glass in the morning. 

CURE FOR WORMS IN CHILDREN. 

The following preparation, after long and satisfac- 
tory experience, is confidently recommended as a 
certain cure for w^orms : — Take the fat of old 
bacon, sliced, and fried in a pan until the essence is 
all out of it ; take out the rind first, then put in as 
much W' ormseed (commonly called Jerusalem oak) as is 
necessary, as much sugar or molasses as will make it 
palatable, and give it three mornings in succession. 
The children will eat it freely ; some you will have to 
restrain from eating too much. Incredible as it may 
27 



314 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

appear, I have known as many as one hundred and 
twenty or thirty large worms come from a child three 
or four years old. I usually give the medicine in the 
spring and fall. 

ANOTHER FOR WORMS. 

Butternut syrup, one tablespoonful ; composition, 
two tablespoonsful ; castor-oil, one tablespoonful. 
Give in small doses until relief is obtained. 

CURE FOR THE GRAVEL, NO. I. 

Drink strong coffee, without sugar or milk. This 
dissolves the gravel, and allows it to pass off, with 
very little pain. 

CURE FOR THE GRAVEL, NO. II. 

Make a strong tea of blackberry brier -root; add 
some Virginia snake-root ; while this is steeping, give 
the patient freely of cayenne or composition powders; 
then drink freely of the tea, and in fifteen minutes 
after drinking this tea, give two teaspoonsful of the 
pulverized butterfly or pleurisy root, in a teacupful of 
hot water, sweetened ; repeat both every half-hour 
alternately for ten or twelve hours ; then use a tea of 
parsley three or four days. 

For strengthening and invigorating the nerves, one 
ounce juniper-berries, two ounces orris-root, one ounce 
bitter bugle, and three ounces camomile flowers ; break 
them up fine ; steep one tablespoonful in half a pint 
of boiling water, and drink it through the day. Take 
a gentle purgative once or twice a week, if the bowels 
are at all constipated. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 315 

A SHRUNKEN SINEW, OR STIFF JOINT. 

Mix half an ounce each, of green melilot, yellow 
basilicon, oil of amber, and a piece of blue vitriol as 
large as a thimble ; simmer well together over a slow 
fire, in two ounces of lard, to the consistency of salve ; 
apply it to the shrunken part and the joint next 
above, at least three times a day, rubbing it well. 

HEADACHE DROPS. 

For the cure of nervous, sun, and sick head-ache, 
take two quarts of alcohol, three ounces Castile soap, 
one ounce camphor, and two ounces ammonia. Bathe 
the forehead and temples. 

CURE FOR THE SCARLET FEVER. 

A solution of tartar emetic, five grains to a pint of 
hot water, should be given to the patient, in quanti- 
ties just sufficient to nauseate, when the febrile symp- 
toms run high. "When thirsty, he may drink pretty 
freely of saffron, or imperial tea. In the use of 
cathartics, great care should be taken to administer 
mild medicines, and by all means to avoid the use of 
calomel. When the patient is troubled with spas- 
modic affections, opiates should be administered, 
elixirs to children, and to adults generally, laudanum, 
to prevent the virus (produced by the exhalations 
from the body) from being re-absorbed, and thus find- 
ing its way back to the lungs, and vice versa. The 
following mode of treatment has been found very 
beneficial : viz, to wash the patient with milk and 
water once in five or six hours, and cover with a coat 
of Indian-meal. 



316 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



PREVENTIVE OF SCARLET FEVER. 

Dissolve three grains of the extract of belladonna 
in one ounce of cinnamon-water (triturated together 
in a mortar), and of this solution give three drops in 
a little sugar and water, to a child one year old, once 
a day, increasing the dose one drop for every ad- 
ditional year. In this minute dose it can do no pos- 
sible injury; whilst the mass of evidence in favor of 
its complete prophylactic power, is conclusive. This 
has been used with great success. 

CURE FOR CONSUMPTION, NO. I. 

A temperate mode of living (avoiding spirituous 
liquors wholly), wearing flannel next to the skin, and 
taking every morning half a pint of new milk, mixed 
with the expressed juice of green hoarhound, will not 
only relieve the complaints, but the patient shall pro- 
cure to himself a length of days bej'ond what the 
mildest fever could give room to hope for. 

Four weeks' use of the hoarhound and milk have 
relieved the pains of the breast, and enabled the 
patient to breathe deep, long, and free ; strengthened 
and harmonized the voice; and restored him to a 
better state of health than he had enjoyed for many 
years. 

CURE FOR CONSUMPTION, NO. II. 

Take three quarts of good spring-water, a quart of 
wheat bran, and half a pint of honey ; simmer them 
gently for two or three hours, in a stone pot, over a 
slow fire. Let the compound cool sufliciently to ad- 
mit yeast through it ; then put in half a pint of good 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 317 

yeast, and let it stand thirty-six hours. Take half a 
wine-glass three times a day, a few minutes before 
eating. If this appears too much, take a less quantity. 
To the use of this, a consumptive confidently ascribes 
his rescue from an early grave, to which he was fast 
hastening, by a consumption brought on by the 
measles. 

CHILLS AND FEVER. 

Gum myrrh, twenty-four grains ; gum assafoetida, 
twenty-four grains ; blue mass, twenty-four grains ; 
quinine, forty-eight grains ; oil of black pepper, suf- 
ficient to mix. Divide into twenty-four pills. Dose, 
one pill three or four times a day. 

NEURALGIA. 

Quinine, five grains ; precipitated carbonate of iron, 
four grains ; morphine, half a grain ; mix with syrup, 
and take at one dose. Should it fail to relieve in an 
hour, repeat it. 

FOR PALPITATION OF THE HEART. 

Take ten drops traumatic balsam, two or three 
times a day, on sugar. 

CURE FOR DEAFNESS, NO. I. 

It is said that by melting sulphuric ether and am- 
monia, and allowing it to stand fourteen days, a solu- 
tion is formed, which, if properly applied to the in- 
ternal ear, will remove, in almost every case, this 
hitherto considered incurable affection. 
27 * 



318 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



CURE FOR DEAFNESS, NO. II. 

Equal parts of the juice of houseleek, brandy, and 
sweet-oil, in a vial, to be hung up exposed to the sun 
for a month or more. This dropped in the ear at 
night, and on wool to be kept in the ear, is a sure 
remedy for deafness. 



CURE FOR DEAFNESS, NO. III. 

Syringe the ears well with some warm milk and 
oil, then take a quarter of an ounce of liquid opo- 
deldoc, and as much oil of almonds ; mix them well, 
and drop a few drops into each ear, stopping them 
with a little cotton or wool : repeat this every night 
when going to bed. 

CURE FOR THE GOUT. 

The best cure for the gout is to apply a leek poul- 
tice to the part affected ; numerous instances of its 
efficacy in this painful disorder have recently occur- 
red. 

CORDIAL FOR WEAK STOMACHS. 

An excellent article to strengthen and restore the 
tone of the stomach. It prevents faintness, or a sink- 
ing feeling at the stomach ; and for persons subject 
to low and depressed spirits, it affords great relief. 
It is made thus : — 

Dissolve, of gum-arabic, two ounces, in one pint of 
rain-water, and add one and a half wine-glasses of 
best brandy. Take a tablespoonful three or four 
times a day. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 319 



STRENGTHENING PLASTER. 

Take of resin, beeswax, white turpentine, one 
pound each ; one tablespoonful of black pepper, pul- 
verized ; one pint of French brandy. Put the whole 
into a new earthen crock ; melt and simmer till the 

brandy is all evaporated. 

• 

Another may be made by melting turpentine with 
a sufficient quantity of resin to give it a proper con- 
sistence. 



CURE FOR SWELLED OR INFLAMED BREASTS, NO. L 

Take soft-soap, and make strong suds, and with a 
flannel cloth, saturated with the suds, wash and rub 
the breast downward with some degree of violence, 
once an hour; after which each time bathe the breast 
with polecat oil, or some soft grease and camphor. 
Keep the breast close covered with flannel. 



CURE FOR SWELLED OR INFLAMED BREASTS, NO. II. 

Take hard soap and common salt, each two ounces; 
new milk, half a pint ; shave the soap fine ; put all 
into a vessel, and simmer slowly over a fire. Take 
care not to burn. When hot, stir in a spoonful of 
corn meal. Spread all on one cloth, and cover the 
whole breast. The surface of the poultice should be 
covered with soft grease, and the plaster should be 
applied as hot as can be borne. A new poultice to 
be applied every three hours, till relief is given. 



320 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

EYE-WATER, FOR CURE OF SORE EYES. 

Take white vitriol, a lump about the size of a pea ; ^ 

and a himp twice that size of loaf-sugar; three cloves, | 

pulverized, and well mixed ; a hen's egg, roasted or 
boiled very hard ; peel off the shell, cut through the 
middle, and take out the yolk; put the aforesaid 
powder into the hollow where the yolk was; place 
th'e two halves of the egg together again, wrap it in a 
strong cloth, and wring it hard; do not have too 
much cloth around the egg; wring quickly; drop one 
drop of the juice in the eye, or dip the finger in the 
liquid, and touch the corner of the eye. 

ANOTHER — FOR CHRONIC SORE EYES. 

One ounce lobelia seed, one ounce Cayenne pepper 
seed, one ounce gum myrrh, one ounce lady's slip- 
per, half an ounce camphor, and of alcohol one pint; 
pulverize and mix them together, set it in the sun 
ten days, shake it often, and strain it in a bottle for 
use. 

FOR INFLAMED OR WEAK EYES. 

Half-fill a pint bottle with common table salt. 
Fill it up with good French brandy. Shake it, let it 
settle, and bathe the outside of the eye with a soft 
linen cloth, on going to bed, and occasionally through 
the day. It is a good application for pains and 
bruises generally. 

EAR ACHE. 

Take a large onion, bore a hole two-thirds through, 
large enough to contain a tablespoonful of sweet-oil ; 
roast and press out the juice, add a little laudanum, 
wet a piece of cotton with the liquid, and put it in 
the ear. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 321 



POULTICES. 

1. A good poultice may be made of crumbs of 
bread boiled with milk, sweet-oil, or spring-water. 

2. Brown sugar and soap make a good poultice, or 
salve, for a boil. 

3. Four ounces of white lily roots, a pound of figs, 
and four ounces of meal or bean flour, boiled toge- 
ther, with as much water as will cover them, make 
an excellent poultice for swellings and suppurating 
sores. 

4. For cancers, or running sores, a grated carrot, 
boiled quite soft, makes a good poultice. 

5. Salad leaves, well boiled, make a poultice that 
relieves pain. 

6. Flaxseed, or camomile flowers, boiled with the 
tops of worm-wood, make an excellent poultice for 
inflammations. 

7. A stimulating poultice is made by using vinegar 
instead of water, and the addition of garlic, mustard, 
horse-radish, &c., to crumbs of bread, or to flour. 



LIQUID COMPOUNDS, FOR THE CURE AND PREVENTION 
OF BALDNESS. 

1. Oil of mace, a half-ounce ; olive-oil, two drachms ; 
water of ammoniac, a half-drachm ; spirits of rose- 
mary, one ounce; rose-water, two and a half ounces. 
Mix. 



S22- MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

2. Eau de Cologne, two ounces; tincture of can- 
tharides, two drachms; oil of rosemary, and oil of 
lavender, of each ten drops. 

3. Equal parts of rectified spirits, castor-oil, and 
eau de Cologne. 

4. Equal parts of honey-water, and tincture of can- 
tharides. 

5. Tincture of cantharides, three drachms ; acetate 
of copper, three grains ; oil of almonds, and castor- 
oil, of each a fluid ounce ; with an essential oil to 
scent it. A small quantity to be applied to the roots 
of the hair every morning. 

6. Vinegar of cantharides, half an ounce ; of eau 
de Cologne^ one ounce ; rose-water, one ounce. Mix. 

7. Castor-oil, lavender-water, and tincture of can- 
tharides, in equal quantities. 

8. Bay leaves, two ounces ; cloves, one-fourth of an 
ounce ; spirits of lavender, four ounces ; spirits of 
thyme, four ounces ; and add a half-ounce of ether. 
To be rubbed on every morning. 

AMERICAN SHAMPOO LIQUID. 

Rum, three quarts ; spirits of wine, one pint ; tinc- 
ture of cantharides, half an ounce ; carbonate of am- 
monia, half-ounce ; salt of tartar, one ounce. 

The foregoing ointments and liquids require to be 
used for some weeks, in order to produce a decided 
efiect, either in curing or preventing baldness. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 323 

Those which contain cantharides in any form are 
the most active, and must be used with caution. 
They should be applied once or twice a day, accord- 
ing to the effect produced; but if the scalp becomes 
sore, their use must be intermitted for a time, or 
longer intervals allowed, as the case may require. 
When employed to prevent the hair falling off, or 
becoming grey, they need not be applied so fre- 
quently as for baldness. 



WASHES FOR THE HAIR. 

1. Southern-wood, two ounces ; box-leaves, six 
ounces ; water, four pints. Boil gently in a sauce- 
pan for a quarter of an hour ; strain, and to each pint 
of the liquid add two ounces of rosemary, and a half 
drachm of salt of tartar, or one drachm of Naples 
soap. 

2. Boil one pound of rosemary in two quarts of 
water, and add to the filtered liquor one ounce of 
spirits of lavender, and one-fourth of an ounce of 
Naples soap, or salt of tartar. 

3. Incinerate tAvo ounces each, of rosemary, maiden- 
hair, southern-wood, myrtle berries, and hazel bark. 
Make a strong solution of the ashes, with which wash 
the hair at the roots every day. Keep the hair short. 

4. Wash for Removing Scurf, and Promoting the 
Curling of the Hair. — Beat up the yolk of an Qgg with 
a pint of clear rain-water. Apply it warm, and after- 
wards wash the head with warm water. 



S24 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

GERMAN POMADE FOR STRENGTHENING THE HAIR. 

Take eight ounces of purified marrow, melt it in a 
glass or stone jar, and add one and a half ounces of 
fresh bay leaves, one ounce of orange leaves, one 
ounce of bitter almonds, a half-ounce of nutmegs, a 
half-ounce of cloves, and one drachm of vanilla, all 
bruised. Cover the vessel, and let the whole digest 
for twenty-four hours, with a gentle heat. Strain, 
while warm, through linen, and stir it as it cools. 

POMADES FOR BEAUTIFYING THE HAIR. 

1. Common Pomatum. — Mutton suet, one pound; 
prepared lard, three pounds. Melt together, pour it 
it into an earthen basin, and beat it assiduously with 
a wooden spatula. When cool, add two ounces of 
bergamot, or of lemon, and continue the stirring 
until nearly cold. 

2. Rose Pomatum. — Prepared lard, sixteen ounces; 
prepared suet, two ounces. Melt wdth a gentle heat, 
and add two ounces of rose-water, and six drops of 
attar of roses. Beat them well together, and put it 
into pots before it gets too cold. 

For making jessamine, violet and orange pomades, 
put the same quantity of water, and one drachm of 
the essence. 

3. Marrow Pomatum. — Beef marrow and beef suet, 
mixed together, and boiled gently for a short time. 

4. Oil of sweet almonds, a pint; spermaceti, one 
and a half ounces; purified lard, two ounces. Melt 
with a gentle heat. When nearly cold, add any 
agreeable scent, and pour it into pots, or wide- 
mouthed bottles. 



YETEEINAEY RECEIPTS. 



LENGTH OF ANIMAL LIFE. 

A HARE will live ten years ; a cat, ten ; a goat, 
eight; an ox, twenty; a hog, twenty-five; a pigeon, 
eight; a turtle-dove, twenty-five; a raven, one hun- 
dred; an eagle, one hundred; and a goose, one hun- 
dred and fifty. 

GESTATION. 

The period of gestation, or the length of time which 
different animals go with young, should be known by 
every farmer, that the season of copulation with his 
different kinds of stock may be so regulated as to 
have them bring forth their young under the most 
favorable circumstances. 

Mares go a few days over eleven months with foal. 
Cows go about forty weeks, or ten lunar months. 
Ewes bring forth at the end of five months. Goats, 
at four and a half months. Sows, at four months. 

The term of incubation, or time which different 
fowls sit upon their eggs before hatching, is as 
follows : — 

Swans sit six weeks; turkeys sit thirty days; geese, 
from twenty-seven to thirty days ; ducks, from 
twenty-seven to thirty days ; hens, twenty-one days ; 
pigeons, or doves, fifteen days. 

28 (325) 



326 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 



TO JUDGE THE AGE OF A HORSE BY HIS TEETH. 

At two years old, the horse sheds the two middle 
teeth of the under jaw. At three years old, he sheds 
two other teeth, one on each side of those he shed the 
year hefore. At four years old, he sheds the two re- 
maining, or corner teeth. At live years old, the two 
middle teeth are full, no longer hollow as all the 
others are, and the teeth have penetrated the guras. 
At six years old, the four middle teeth are full, the 
corner teeth only remaining hollow ; the tusks are 
sharp, with the sides fluted. At seven years old, the 
corner teeth are full, the tusks longer and thicker, 
and the horse is said to be aged. 

It is not meant that, exactly at the period men- 
tioned, these changes take place in the horse : much 
depends upon his constitution, and whether he be a 
late or early foal : also upon the manner in which he 
has been reared, as to food, shelter, &c. The corner 
tooth, too, might remain a little hollow after the age 
of seven, but the appearance is still very unlike the 
mere shells which they are at the age of six. 



AGE OF SHEEP 

May be known by examining the front teeth. 
They are eight in number, and appear, during the 
first 3'ear, of a small size. In the second year, the 
two middle ones fall out, and their place is supplied 
by two new teeth, which are easily distinguished by 
their being of a larger size. In the third year, the 
two other small teeth, one from each side, drop out, 
and are replaced by two larger ones ; so that there 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 327 

are four large teeth in the middle, and two pointed 
ones on each side. In the fourth year, the large teeth 
are six in number, and only two small ones remain, 
one at each end of the range. In the fifth year, the 
remaining small teeth are lost, and the whole front 
teeth are larger. In the sixth year, the whole begin 
to be worn ; and in the seventh, sometimes sooner, 
some fall out or are broken. 



TO PREVENT HORSES BEING TEASED BY FLIES. 

Take two or three small handsful of walnut leaves, 
upon which pour two or three quarts of cold water ; 
let it infuse one night ; pour the whole, next morn- 
ing, into a kettle, and let it boil for a quarter of an 
hour. When cold, it will be fit for use. ISTo more is 
required than to moisten a sponge, and before the 
horse goes out of the stable, let those parts which are 
most irritable be smeared over with the liquor, viz : 
between and upon the ears, the neck, flank, &c. 
Not only the lady or gentleman, who rides out for 
pleasure, will derive benefit from the walnut leaves 
thus prepared, but the coachman, the wagoner, and 
all who use horses during the hot months. 



SORE TONGUE IN HORSES — A PRETTY CERTAIN CURE. 

Dissolve two ounces of copperas, and two of alum, 
in a pint of strong vinegar; swab the mouth and 
tongue with the solution until the disease is removed. 
Then dissolve honey and alum in vinegar, and use it 
in the same way to heal the tongue. 



328 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

ANOTHER, FOR SORE TONGUE IN HORSES. 

Make a strong decoction of red-oak bark, and when 
cold, dissolve a small quantity of alurn and copperas 
in it. Then wash the tongue, or pour the liquid in 
the mouth with a bottle ; hold it a while, and let the 
horse throw it out. 

LINIMENT FOR THE GALLED BACKS OF HORSES. 

Keating, in his expedition to the source of St. 
Peter's liiver, says: — For the information of other 
travellers, we may mention, that, after having tried 
many applications to the backs of horses, when 
galled, we have found none that succeeded so well as 
white-lead moistened with milk. When milk was 
not to be procured, oil was substituted. Whenever 
the application was made in the early stage of the 
wound, we have found it to be very effectual, and it 
is likewise a convenient one, as two ounces of white- 
lead sufficed for the whole of our party for more than 
a month. 

SADDLE GALLS. 

Saddle galls are generally occasioned by an un- 
equal pressure of the saddle, or by a saddle being 
badly fitted to a horse's back, and if neglected they 
grow into very ugly and troublesome sores. When 
these inflamed tumors are first discovered, cold water 
alone is frequently sufficient to disperse and drive 
them away ; but when that Avill not have the desired 
effect, the back may be washed twice a day in a mix- 
ture of sharp vinegar, one gill; spirits of any kind, 
one gill; sweet-oil, or fresh butter, one tablespoonful; 
to be well mixed before used. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 329 



SWELLINGS ON HORSES OR CATTLE. 

To scatter swellings on horses or cattle, take two 
quarts of proof whiskey, or other proof spirits ; warm 
it over coals, but not to blaze ; dissolve it in a pint of 
soft-soap ; when cool put it in a bottle, and add one 
ounce of camphor. "When dissolved, it will form the 
liquid opodeldoc, and is then ready for application, 
making a cheap and useful remedy. When the 
swelling is on the leg, or any part that will receive a 
bandage, such bandage should be applied, and wet 
with the opodeldoc. 



KING'S OIL FOR CURING WOUNDS ON HORSES AND 
CATTLE. 

One ounce of green copperas, two ounces of white 
vitriol, two ounces of common salt, two ounces of lin- 
seed oil, and eight ounces of molasses ; pulverize the 
copperas, and boil all over a slow fire fifteen minutes 
in a pint of wine. When almost cold, add one ounce 
oil of vitriol, and four ounces spirits of turpentine. 
Apply to the w^ound with a quill or feather. This 
will immediately set the wound to running, and per- 
form a certain cure. 

TO CURE SWINNEY. 

Get a bottle of fresh turpentine ; curry and brush 
the part afl:ected ; then rub with the turpentine from 
the top of the shoulder-blade downwards, about nine 
inches, and if the horse is much afifected b}' it, in 
eight or ten hours grease the parts with lard, and re- 
peat the turpentine in three days again. In stubborn 
cases, stick an awl in the sunken part to the bone, in 



330 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

two or three places, and apply the turpentine, and 
then, with a warm iron, plat the parts, or, as it is 
termed, "bake in the turpentine." 

ANOTHER REMEDY 

Is to make a small incision in the sunken or per- 
ished part of the shoulder, near the uppermost point ; 
then, with the barrel of a goose-quill, blow up the 
part aifected, till a large pufi* is made round about ; 
in the mean time, with the sides of the hands striking 
or pressing the air under the skin in every direction. 
Then close the hole effectually with a pin, and hair 
tied around the same. With proper rest to the horse, 
he may be regarded as cured. Repeat the blowing 
of the air or wind on successive days ; it is to prevent 
the pressure of the skin on the part affected. Let a 
second person place the end of his finger on the end 
of the quill, while securing the air. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Bathing the part affected with saltpetre dissolved 
in water, has been known to effect a complete cure. 

CRACKS IN THE HEELS, OR WOUNDS IN HORSES. 

Sugar of lead, two drachms; white vitriol, one 
drachm ; and a strong infusion of red-oak bark, or 
elm, all well mixed together. Wash or bathe the 
parts affected with the above preparation. 

LOST APPETITE IN A HORSE. 

Horses lose their appetites from various causes, viz: 
excessive fatigue, want of a change in food, dirty fod- 
der, moldy corn, or a dirty manger, &c. ; — but most 



VETEKINARY RECEIPTS. 331 

frequently by the approach of some disease. So soon 
as yon discover a horse has lost his appetite, observe 
the following treatment, viz: — Take from the neck 
vein half a gallon of blood ; then take of assafcetida, 
a quarter of an ounce ; salt, one tablespoonful ; sas- 
safras tea, one quart. Mix, and give him a drench. 
On the second day, take of glauber salts, one pound; 
warm water, one quart. After dissolving the salts, 
give it as a drench, and in two or three days the ap- 
petite will be restored, unless the animal is laboring 
under some disease which may be ascertained by the 
symptoms. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Take half a pound of saltpeter, half a pound of 
alum, and half a pound of alum salt; pulverize and 
mix them well together, and every eight or ten days 
give the horse a tablespoonful in his food. His coat, 
flesh, and spirits will soon reward his master for his 
care. 

MASH FOR HORSES. 

A mash is generally given to a horse for the pur- 
pose of cooling the system, opening the bowels, and 
for disguising difl'erent kinds of medicine, which may 
be necessary to be administered, and which, if given 
in any other way, would be attended with difficulty, 
and would be unproductive of effects so salutary. 

Mash No. 1. Take of bran, one gallon ; sassafras 
tea (scalding hot), one quart; powdered brimstone, 
one tablespoonful ; saltpeter, one teaspoonful. 

No. 2. Take oats, one gallon ; flour of sulphur, one 
tablespoonful; saltpeter, one teaspoonful; boiling 
water, one quart. / 



332 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

ISTo. 3. Take of bran, one gallon ; glaiiber salts, 
four ounces ; sulphur, one tablespoonful ; sassafras 
tea (scalding hot), one quart. Let them be well 
mixed, and given milk-warm, not permitting the 
horse to drink cold, water for six hours afterward. 

BLISTERS. 

Previous to the application of a blister to any part 
of a horse, the hair should either be shaved or cut off 
as close as possible ; the blistering ointment should 
be regularly spread with a warm knife on a stout 
piece of osnaburg; and during the operation of the 
blister, the horse should be tied short to prevent his 
biting the part, or doing other injury. 

Blister No. 1. Take of Spanish flies, half an ounce; 
oil of turpentine, one ounce ; hog's lard, four ounces; 
mix them well, and the blister is ready for use. 

No. 2. Take of tar, four ounces ; vitriol acid, two 
drachms; oil of origanum, half an ounce; hog's lard, 
two ounces ; Spanish flies, two ounces. This blister 
is excellent for the spavin. 

CLYSTER. 

As clysters very often are the means of saving 
horses' lives, I shall here recommend the best and 
simplest method of administering them. Take a 
large bladder, cut off the neck, and soften it in warm 
water. Take a pewter pipe, common reed, or any 
other smooth tube, nine or ten inches long, and not 
more than an inch in diameter; the clyster must then 
be poured through a funnel into the bag, and securely 
tied around one end of the tube ; the other must be 
made perfectly smooth and rounded, well oiled, and 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 333 

introduced into the anus several inches ; the liquor 
in the bladder must be forced through the tube by 
pressure with the hand. When a clyster is given, a 
horse should be placed with his head down hill, and 
if he refuses to stand, a twitch should be put upon 
his nose. 

Clysters are of three kinds — opening, anodyne, 
and nourishing. For the first purpose take a gallon 
of warm water, with from half a pound to a pound 
of common salt dissolved in it ; to which add four or 
five ounces of linseed oil. For the second take two 
drachms of solid opium, dissolve them, or rather mix 
them well with about half a pint of warm water, and 
add from a quart to three pints of Indian-meal, or 
wheat flour gruel. For the third purpose, rich broths, 
wheat flour gruel, and other nourishing fluids, are 
recommended. 

With respect to the first kind of clysters, it may be 
observed that gruel is commonly preferred to warm 
water; but, according to my experience, the latter 
does just as well as the former. As to the second, 
tincture of opium may be substituted for solid opium, 
and is by some preferred to it ; but the quantity should 
not exceed two ounces, on account of the spirit in 
which this opium is dissolved. The third kind of 
clyster is required only in lock-jaw, or in diseases of 
the throat which prevent swallowing, and in these its 
utility seems to be very questionable. 

As soon as the clyster has been injected, the tail 
should be kept close to the fundament for a few 
minutes, to prevent its being too hastily returned. 
This is particularly necessary when the anodj-ne 
clyster has been employed. The pipe must be oiled, 
or greased, before it is introduced ; and if its passage 



834 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

be obstructed by hard excrement lodged in the rec- 
tum, the hand should be gradually introduced in 
order to remove it. 

CURE FOR THE SCOURS IN HORSES. 
Put into a junk bottle one pint of good gin, and 
one ounce of indigo ; shake well together, and pour 
it down the horse's throat. 

COLIC IN HORSES, NO. I. 
Jamestown seed, from four to ten tablespoonsful, 
boiled, and poured oft', given to a horse, will eft'ect a 
cure in ten or fifteen minutes. Bleed the horse in the 
mouth. 

COLIC IN HORSES, NO. II. 

Make and give him a drench composed of a table- 
spoonful of strong mustard, dissolved in a pint of 
water, which may be administered in a black junk 
bottle, by raising the horse's head a sufficient height. 
If it be uncertain when the horse was first aftected, as 
in that case there will be danger of inflammation, on 
discovery of the disorder, bleed a vein immediately. 
The remedy here described is said to be immediate 
and infallible. 

COLIC IN HORSES, NO. III. 

I was lately told by a gentleman of Prince George 
county, that a teacupful of spirits of turpentine would 
give instant relief to horses laboring under this dis- 
order. He added that, on one occasion, all the oxen 
of two of his carts were suddenly swollen by the 
generation of gas in the stomach, from eating green 
food. The overseer expected all would die, when our 
informant ordered a teacupful of spirits of turpentine, 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS, 



335 



diffused in oil, to be given to each. The relief was 
in every case instantaneous and effectual, almost be- 
fore he could have thought there was time to swallow. 
Such facts should always be communicated for wide 
diffusion and preservation. 

COLIC, OR GRIPES. 

Symptoms. — The symptoms of the colic commence 
with great restlessness and uneasiness in the horse's 
manner of standing ; frequently he paws, voids small 
quantities of excrement, and makes many fruitless 
attempts to stale ; kicks his belly with his hind legs ; 
often looks round to his flanks, groaning, expressive 
of the pain he feels : lies down, rolls, gets up again, 
and sometimes for a moment appears to find relief. 
But the pain soon returns with double violence ; his 
ears are generally cold, and he often sweats about 
the flank and shoulders ; his body swells, and he fre- 
quently shows a disposition to lie down in great 
haste. 



A TABLE FOR DISTINGUISHING 

Between the Colic, or Gripes, and Inflammation of the Bowels of Horses, 
by the symptoms that mark the character of each. 



SPASMODIC OR FLATULENT COLIC. 

1. Pulse natural, though some- 
times a little lower. (1.) 

2. The horse lies down and rolls 
upon his back. 

3. The legs and ears are gene- 
rally warm. 

4. Attacks suddenly, is never 
preceded, and seldom accompa- 
nied, by any symptoms of fever. 

5. There are frequently short 
intermissions. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE BOWELS. 

1. Pulse very quick and small. 
(2.) 

2. He lies down and suddenly 
rises up again, seldom rolling upon 
his back. 

3. Legs and ears generally cold, 

4. In general, inflammation comes 
on gradually, is commonly pre- 
ceded, and always accompanied 
by symptoms of fever. 

5. No intermission can be ob- 
served. 



33G VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

(1.) Pulse natural. — "When in health, the pulsations 
or strokes are from thirty-six to forty in a minute ; 
those of large heavy horses being slower than those 
of smaller ; and those of old ones slower than those 
of young animals. When either are just off a quick 
pace, the strokes increase in number ; as they do if 
he be alarmed or animated by the familiar cry of the 
hounds. 

(2.) Pulse very quick and small. — Fever of the 
simple or common kind usually increases the pulsa- 
tions to double the healthy number ; as the fever in- 
creases in violence, and particularly in cases of in- 
flammation of the bowels, the pulse beats still higher, 
and reaches to a hundred or more in a minute. To 
ascertain either state, the attendant should apply the 
j^oints of his fingers gently to the artery which lies 
nearest the surface. Some prefer consulting the tem- 
poral artery, which is situated about an inch and a 
half backward from the corner of the eye. Others 
again, and they are the greatest number, think it best 
to feel it underneath the edge of the jaw-bone, where 
the facial artery passes on under the skin only to the 
side of the face. In either case, too great pressure 
would stop the pulsation altogether ; though such a 
trial of the artery against the jaw-bone, will prove 
whether it be in such a rigid state of excitement as 
attends high fever; or elastic and springy, slipping 
readily from under the finger, as it does when health 
prevails, and the strokes follow each other regularly. 
The presence of high fever is farther indicated by a 
kind of twang, or vibration, given by the pulse against 
the finger-points, resembling such as would be felt 
were we to take hold of a distended whip-cord or wire 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 337 

between the fingers and cause it to vibrate like a 
fiddle-string, sharply; whereas, in health, a swell is 
felt in the vibration as if the string were made of soft 
materials, and not so tightly drawn. Languid or slow 
pulse, scarcely perceptible in some of the beats or 
strokes, indicates lowness of spirits, debility, or ex- 
haustion : if languor be felt at intervals only, a few 
strokes being very quick, and then again a few very 
slow, this indicates low fever, in which bleeding would 
do no harm, &c. 

Remedies. — 1. Take from the neck vein half a gal- 
lon of blood; then take of laudanum one ounce, and 
of mint tea one quart, milk warm ; mix them well 
in a bottle, and give the contents as a drench ; let 
the horse be well rubbed under the belly, and prepare 
and give an injection of meal, water, molasses, salt, 
and hog's lard, milk warm. 

2. Take of mint tea one and a half pints ; gin, or 
any spirituous liquor, half a pint ; mix them well in a 
bottle, and give them as a drench, taking care to rub 
the horse well. Should it not have the desired effect 
in fifteen minutes, repeat the dose. 

3. Take of camphor a quarter of an ounce, oil of 
turpentine half an ounce, mint tea one pint; mix them 
in a bottle and give them as a drench ; confine the 
horse in a close stable, cover him with three or four 
blankets, and under his belly place a large tub of 
boiling water, which will readily throw him into a 
profuse sweat, and relieve him from pain. 

4. In addition to the above, clysters ought to be 
administered by injecting the following ingredients, 
viz : water, half a gallon ; salt, one handful ; oil of any 
kind, one pint; molasses, one pint; mix the whole and 

29 



338 VETERINAKY KECEIPTS. 

inject it; and repeat it every half hour, until the bowels 
are well opened. 



FOUNDER IN HORSES, NO. I. 

A founder evidently proceeds from surfeit ; a horse 
ridden until heated and fatigued, and fed too plenti- 
fully while warm and hungry, and swallowing his 
food too greedily, that he may lie down and rest his 
wearied limbs, while the stable is wet or damp, and 
the horse in a copious sweat, are the best reasons that 
can be given for the formation of the disease. Instead 
of rising up refreshed, the poor animal is stiff and 
useless. If he had been allowed to cool perfectly, 
and then fed sparingly, he would have escaped this 
sore complaint. 

The remedy is a lump of alum, the size of a walnut, 
reduced to powder and dissolved in warm water ; the 
horse must be drenched with this liquid, which in a 
short time will throw him into a profuse perspiration, 
and he will be able to pursue his journey the next 
day, or if not badly foundered, in a few hours. 

FOUNDER IN HORSES, NO. II. 

So soon as you are convinced that your horse is 
foundered, take from his neck-vein at least one gallon 
of blood ; give a drench of one quart of strong sassa- 
fras tea, one teaspoonful of saltpeter, and a quarter 
of an ounce of assafoetida, and do not permit him to 
eat or drink for five or six hours ; at the expiration 
of which time, should he not be evidently better, re- 
peat the bleeding, taking half a gallon of blood, and 
give another drench : at night, oifer him some bran 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 339 

or oats, scalded with sassafras tea, and if it can be 
procured, let him have green food, fresh from the 
field, for it has the happy effect of opening the bowels, 
and cooling the system. His feet should be nicely 
cleansed out, and stuffed with fresh cow manure ; his 
drink should be at least one-half sassafras tea, with a 
small handful of salt thrown in. By the morning, 
should the horse be better, nothing further is neces- 
sary, than to be careful not to over-feed him. But 
should there be no change for the better, tie a small 
cord just above his knees, and with a lancet or fleam 
bleed him in a vein that runs around the coronet, just 
above the hoof Take from each leg a pint of blood; 
give a pound of salts, dissolved in three half-pints of 
water, in form of a drench ; keep his feet stuffed with 
fresh cow manure, and bathe his legs with equal parts 
of sharp vinegar, spirits, and sweet-oil or lard. By 
attention to these directions, in two or three days the 
horse will again be fit for use. 

FOUNDER IN HORSES, NO. III. 

When a horse is slightly foundered, take a gill of 
spirits of turpentine, and one pint of whiskey, and 
drench him with it : when he sweats, rub him down 
well, and nothing more will be required. For a 
severe founder, drench him with a quart of melted 
lard, which is said to be an effectual cure. 

FOUNDER IN HORSES, NO. IV. 

As soon as you find your horse is foundered, bleed 
him in the neck, in proportion to the greatness of the 
founder. In extreme cases you may bleed him as 
long as he can stand up. Then give him a strong 
drench of salt and water. Be careful not to let him 



340 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

drink too much water afterwards. Then anoint 
around the edges of his hoofs with spirits of turpen- 
tine, and your horse will be well in one hour. 

FOUNDER IN HORSES, NO. V. 

If your horse founders over-night, in the morning 
take a pint of hog's lard, put it in a vessel, and make 
it boiling hot ; clean his hoofs well, and set his foot in 
the lard. Heat it for each foot, boiling hot ; take a 
spoon and put the fat over the hoof, as near the hair 
as possible, and if this be done early in the morning 
he will be fit for use in three hours after. It is better 
to remove the horse's shoes. 



MALANDERS ON HORSES. 

This disease consists in chaps, or cracks on the in- 
side of the fore leg, against the knee, discharging a 
red, sharp humor. To cure it, wash the cracks with 
warm soap-suds, or old wine ; then rub them twice a 
day with an ointment of hog's lard, mixed with two 
drachms sublimate of mercury ; or apply a poultice of 
the roots of marsh-mallows and flax-seed, softened 
with linseed oil, tying it on with a roller. Continue that 
till the seeds fall off, and the sores become clean ; af- 
terwards a mixture of turpentine and quicksilver will 
be a proper application. 

REMEDY FOR THE HEAVES IN HORSES. 

Take half a pound of good ginger for a horse ; give 
two tablespoonsful a day ; one in the morning and the 
other in the evening, mixed with wheat bran. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 341 
CURE FOR COUGH IN HORSES. 

Half a pound of niter, a quarter of a pound of black 
regulus of antimony, and two ounces of antimony; 
mix well in a mortar, and make it up into doses of 
one ounce each ; give the horse one dose in a cold 
mash, every night in mild weather, for three nights. 
Then omit it for a week. If he does not get better of 
his cough, repeat it. Care is necessary that the animal 
should not be exposed while warm, to stand in a cold 
wind; exercise him gently, and treat him otherwise 
as usual. 

A BROKEN -WINDED HORSE, NO. I. 

It is easy to discover a broken-winded horse. By 
giving him a little brisk exercise he will draw up his 
flanks, and drop them suddenly, breathe with great 
difficulty, and make a disagreeable wheezing noise. 
The seat of the disease appears, from dissection, to be 
in the lungs ; the heart and lungs being found of twice 
their natural size, which prevents their performing 
their office with ease, in the action of respiration. 
Broken wind is sometimes produced in a horse by 
excessive fatigue, heavy draughts, sudden changes 
from heat to cold, and other obvious causes. It 
w^ould be advisable to dispose of such horses at any 
price, as they are not worth their feeding. This com- 
plaint, I believe, does not adrnit of a perfect cure ; 
but by much care it may be greatly relieved. The 
food should be compact and nutritious, such as corn 
and old hay. Carrots are excellent in this case, also 
parsnips and beets, probably on account of the sac- 
charine matter they contain. Molasses has been 
given in the water (which should be in very small 
29* 



342 VETEEINART RECEIPTS. 

quantities), with very great success. Some have used 
tar-water, others prefer the effects of lime-water ; but 
the greatest dependence should be in very sparing 
supplies of substantial food. The exercise should be 
regular, but never beyond a walking pace. If the 
symptomatic cough be troublesome, take away about 
three quarts of blood every other day. 

A BROKEN-WINDED HORSE, NO. II. 

This disorder is caused by over-feeding, by violent 
exercise when the horse is too full, or by letting a 
horse go into water when he is hot and perspiring ; 
or, it frequently originates from an obstinate cold, 
not well cured. The only remedy we have known to 
prove efficient, is to feed a horse on good, healthy 
food — corn, and not much hay, or feed him upon 
potatoes, and whenever water is given him, impreg- 
nate it with saltpeter and sal-ammoniac. Lime-water, 
freely given, has in many instances cured this com- 
plaint. 

THUMPS IN HORSES. 

Thumps are caused by over-heating and fast riding 
or driving. Take one pint of brandy or good whis- 
key, beat up a quarter of a pound of black pepper, 
mix it, and drench him. Or take a dozen eggs, hold 
up his head, and break them, and put them down his 
throat, shell and all, and he will recover immediately. 

WIND GALLS. 

"Wind galls are spongy and flatulent humors, that 
make their appearance on both sides of the legs, just 
above the pastern-joint or fetlock. It is seldom that 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 843 

a horse is found entirel}^ clear of them, particularly 
about the hind legs, if he be much used. 

They are produced by hard usage, strains, bruises, 
&c., of the back, sinews, or the sheath that covers 
them, which, by being over-stretched, have some of 
their fibres ruptured : whence may ooze out the fluid 
which is commonly found with the included air. 

When wind galls make their first appearance, they 
are easily cured by a bath and bandage. Boil red- 
oak bark to a strong decoction, add some sharp vine- 
gar, and a Httle alum, let the parts be fomented twice 
a day, warm as the hand can be held in it ; then take 
a woollen cloth, dip it in the bath, and bind the ankle 
up as tightly as possible, without giving pain to the 
horse. 

Should this method not succeed, after a thorough 
trial, the swelled or pufi:ed parts may be opened with 
a sharp knife ; but blistering with flies is less danger- 
ous, and generally attended with equal success. 

Wind galls give to a horse a gouty and clumsy ap- 
pearance ; but I have never known lameness pro- 
duced by them, or any other injury, except that of 
stiffening his legs as he advances in years. They 
furnish strong proof that the animal has rendered 
much service. 



SITFAST ON HORSES. 

Sitfast proceeds from the part being frequently 
bruised with a saddle, until it becomes extremely 
hard, and after remaining some length of time, is not 
unlike a horny substance. A cure cannot be per- 
formed unless the knife is used for the purpose of 
cutting it entirely out, after which the fresh wound 



344 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

can be healed with the greatest ease, in a very short 
time, by using either of the following mixtures: — 

1. Take of brandy, half a pint ; honey, half a pint ; 
alum, two ounces. 

2. Take of blue stone, a quarter of an ounce ; spirits 
of turpentine, two tablespoonsful ; spring-water, one 
pint. 

3. Take of sugar of lead, half an ounce ; alum, 
one ounce ; copperas, half an ounce. Let the in- 
gredients be well mixed, and the sitfast washed twice 
a day. After the wound is washed, clean with soap 
and water. 

SCRATCHES. 

The scratches is a disease which soon places a 
horse in such a situation as to render him unfit for 
any kind of service. When it is permitted to run 
upon a horse for a length of time without any remedy 
being applied, the ankles and legs swell very much, 
and lameness is produced in so great a degree that 
he is scarcely able to move. 

The scratches are produced from many different 
causes, as hard riding, dirty stables, legs left wet at 
night without being rubbed, standing on his own ma- 
nure or mud in the stall where he is confined, &c. 
Although much inflammation may appear, and the 
disease discover much inveteracy, the cure is not 
difficult. 

Remedies. — No. 1. Remove the horse to a clean 
stall ; with strong soap-suds wash his legs and ankles 
nicely ; clean out his feet ; then wash every inflamed 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 345 

part or sore in strong copperas water, twice a day, 
until the cure is performed. Take half a gallon of 
blood from the neck-vein, and give a mash twice a 
week, of one gallon of bran, one teaspoonful of salt- 
peter, and one tablespoonful of powdered brimstone. 
Great attention should be paid to the cleanliness of 
the stable. 

No. 2. After the horse is placed in a clean stall, 
and his legs and ankles nicely washed with warm 
soap-suds, take of blue stone, one ounce, of alum, 
four ounces ; to which add half a gallon of strong 
decoction of red-oak bark ; stir them together, until 
the alum and blue stone are dissolved ; then wash 
the cracks, sores, or inflamed parts twice a day, and 
the cure will be effected in a very short time. Light 
or green food would be preferable to any other for a 
horse thus diseased, until the cure is performed. 

No. 3. After washing the legs and ankles clean 
with soap-suds, take flour of sulphur, or powdered 
brimstone, one tablespoonful; mix them well toge- 
ther, and anoint the sores and parts inflamed twice a 
day. A horse will get well much sooner when con- 
iined in a clean stall, than by running at large. 

No. 4. Boil poke-root to a strong decoction, and 
bathe the ankles twice a day. In all cases, a clean 
stable will aid you much in making a quick cure of 
the scratches. 

No. 5. Mix white-lead and linseed-oil, in such pro- 
portions as will render the application convenient. 
Two or three applications will effect a cure. 



340 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

No. 6. For eacli dose, take a handful of the roots 
of dwarf-ash, known in some places by the name of 
" old man's beard ;" chop the roots small, put in two 
quarts of water, and boil down to about half its quan- 
tity. Give this dose every other day, until you have 
given three ; then bleed freely in the neck. A small 
quantity of lard, or neat's-foot oil, may be applied ex- 
ternally, to soften the sore. For a desperate case, the 
operation should be repeated. 

REMEDY FOR THE POLL-EVIL, OR FISTULA IN HORSES. 

When the swelling breaks, or if it has been some 
time a running sore, it will have a pipe or tube, from 
which the matter discharges ; into this crowd a lump 
of pearlash, or potash, as large as you can, with your 
finger. Three such applications will cure the worst 
case. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

From a horse's rubbing and sometimes striking his 
poll against the lower edge of the manger, or hanging 
back in the stall, and bruising the part with the halter, 
or from the frequent and painful stretchings of the 
ligaments and muscles, by unnecessary tight reigning, 
and occasionally, we fear, from a violent blow on the 
poll, carelessly or wantonly inflicted, inflammation 
comes on, and a swelling appears — hot, tender, and 
painful. The first thing to be attempted, is to abate 
the inflammation by bleeding, physic, and the appli- 
cation of cold lotions to the part; by these means the 
tumor will sometimes be dispersed. This system, 
however, must not be pursued too far. If the swell- 
ing increases, and the heat and tenderness likewise 
increase, matter will form in the tumor; and then 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 347 

our object will be to hasten its formation by warm 
fomentations, poultices, or stimulating embrocations. 
As soon as matter is formed, which may be known 
by the softness of the tumor, and before it has time 
to spread around and eat into the neighboring parts, 
it should be evacuated. The openings into the tumor 
must be so contrived, that all the matter shall run 
out, and continue to run out as it is formed, and not 
collect at the bottom of the ulcer, irritating and cor- 
roding it. This can be effected by a seton alone. 
The needle should enter at the top of the tumor, 
penetrate through its bottom, and be brought out at 
the side of the neck, a little below the abscess. No- 
thing more than this is needed, except frequent fomen- 
tations with warm water, to keep the part clean, and 
to obviate inflammation. Poll-evil, in its early stage, 
will frequently be cured. If the ulcer has deepened 
and spread, and threatens to eat into the ligaments 
of the joints of the neck, it may be necessary to 
stimulate its surface, and perhaps painfully so, in 
order to bring it to a healthy state, and dispose it to 
fill up ; and in extreme cases, even the scalding mix- 
ture of the farrier may be called into requisition. 
This, however, will be ineffectual, except the pus or 
matter is enabled, by the use of seton s, perfectly to 
run out of the wound ; and the application of these 
setons will require the skill and anatomical know- 
ledge of the veterinary surgeon. In very desperate 
cases, the wound may not be fairly exposed to the 
action of our caustic applications, without the division 
of the ligament of the neck, by which the head is 
almost entirely supported. This, however, may be 
done with perfect safety, for although the ligament is 
carried on to the occipital bone, and some strength is 



848 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

gained by this prolongation of it, the main strength 
is on the second bone; and the head will continue 
to be supported, although the ligament should be 
divided between the second bone and the head. The 
divided ligament will soon unite again, and its former 
usefulness will be restored when the wound is healed. 

CURE FOR STAGGERS, NO. I. 

Take one quart of brandy, or whiskey, and dissolve 
one ounce of camphor in it, and give for a dose one 
gill. In about two hours after taking this prepara- 
tion, the horse will get up. Care should be taken to 
prevent him from drinking water for twenty-four 
hours, in which time a complete cure will be effected 
in nine cases out of ten. 

CURE FOR STAGGERS, NO. II. 

Symptoms. — The symptoms of the staggers are a 
drowsiness, eyes inflamed, half shut, and full of 
tears ; the appetite bad ; the disposition to sleep 
g'Uierall}^ increased, feebleness, a continual hanging 
of the head, or resting it on the manger; rearing, 
falling, and being in a state of insensibility ; walking 
a small circle for a considerable length of time; the 
ears hot, with a burning fever, &c. • 

Remedy. — Take from the neck-vein half a gallon 
of blood, three times a week ; take of sassafras tea, 
three half-pints ; plantain juice, half a pint ; assafoe- 
tida, half an ounce ; saltpeter, one teaspoonful. Mix, 
and give the horse a drink three mornings in a 
week. Give an injection, composed of one pint of 
meal, two quarts of water, one quart of molasses, and 
one spoonful of hog's lard. Let the horse be mode- 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 349 

rately exercised; and whenever he is standing, he 
should be well rubbed. Give a mash twice a week, 
composed of one gallon of bran, one tablespoonful of 
sulphur, one teaspoonful of saltpeter, one quart of 
boiling sassafras tea, and an eighth of an ounce of 
assafoetida, not permitting the horse to drink cold 
water for six hours afterwards. Should he be much 
mended by this treatment, nothing more will be ne- 
cessary, except feeding him on bran, or light food of 
any kind ; but should he appear to receive no benefit 
from these attentions, in four or five days, take of 
calomel, twenty-five grains ; of opium, two drachms ; 
of camphor, two drachms ; powdered fennel-seed, one 
drachm ; of syrup of any kind, a sufiicient quantity 
to make the ingredients into a ball, which may be 
given every morning for four or five days, by which 
time the horse will get well, if his disease will admit 
of cure. 

Horses that are confined in the stable never have 
the staggers ; consequently it would be advisable for 
ever}' person whose situation will admit of it to con- 
fine his horses, particularly at night, during the 
spring and fall months. 

BLIND STAGGERS. 

This disease appears to be a compression upon the 
brain, caused by a collection of wind and matter in 
the forehead. The writer witnessed a cure eflt'ected 
in the following manner: — A hole was bored with a 
nail gimlet through the skull, on the curl of hair be- 
tween the eyes. In various instances he has heard of 
its being tried with uniform success. This remedy 
was discovered by an attempt to kill, and thus relieve 
a horse from the distress of this disease. His skull 
30 



350 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

was fractured by the stroke of an axe. The morn- 
ing following, the horse was found feeding, appa- 
rently well. The remedy may be applied by any 
person, as the horse very soon becomes helpless after 
the attack, and immediate relief is afforded by letting 
out the matter, &c. 

Those who are too timid to try the above remedy, 
may resort to one less severe ; and as the writer has 
understood, from a credible source, equally success- 
ful. Make a vertical incision in the skin between the 
eyes ; separate it from the skull, so as to make a suf- 
ficient cavity to contain a gill of salt, which put in and 
make it secure. A cure very soon will be effected. 

FISTULA. 

The fistula in the withers generally proceeds from 
some blow or bruise, and is the most disagreeable 
disease to which a horse is subject. I would recom- 
mend to ever}^ person whose situation will admit of 
the sacrifice, to dispose of a horse thus unfortunately 
aft'ected, for whatever sum he would bring, or even 
give him away, sooner than be at the expense and 
trouble, and run a risk of performing a cure, which, 
if completed, would be tedious, and the horse much 
lessened in value, in consequence of being disfigured 
by the scar which will unavoidably be left. The 
remedy here recommended is severe, but it will have 
the desired efiect more speedily than any other. 

As soon as the fistula assumes a formidable appear- 
ance, fomentations of bitter herbs should be employed, 
such as wormwood, camomile, bay leaves, muUen, 
life everlasting, &c., boiled in water to a strong de- 
coction, and, after being strained, should be applied 
as hot as the horse can bear it without giving pain, by 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 351 

means of large woollen cloths. This application pro- 
motes suppuration ; and when matter is formed, let 
the tumor be opened, so that its contents may be 
completely evacuated ; after which, let the sore be 
nicely washed with strong soap-suds, and apply the 
following ointment once a day : — Take of verdigris, 
half an ounce; oil of turpentine, one ounce; copperas, 
half an ounce; ointment of yellow resin, four ounces; 
to be well mixed together. As soon as healthy matter 
is discharged from the fistula, the ointment may be 
discontinued, and nothing more will be necessary, ex- 
cept keeping it perfectly olean with soap-suds. 

When the fistula first makes its appearance, it may 
be removed or prevented by placing a rowel or seton 
in each shoulder, just below the swelled or inflamed 
part. It should be kept running two or three weeks. 

FARCY. 

To effect a cure in this distressing disease, in its 
first stage, bleed three times the first week, taking 
half a gallon of blood at each bleeding ; feed princi- 
pally on bran, oats, or any food easily digested, and 
the long food green, if to be had. Remove all filth 
from, or about the stable, taking care to keep it neat 
and clean afterward. Give three mashes a week, of 
bran, scalded with sassafras tea, one tablespoonfal of 
powdered brimstone, and one teaspoonful of saltpeter 
(not permitting the horse to drink for six hours after- 
ward); take half an ounce of assafoetida; wrap it in 
a clean linen rag, and nail it in the bottom of the 
manger in which he is fed. All his drink must be 
equal quantities of sassafras, boiled in water to a 
strong decoction, and half an ounce of assafoetida 
should be placed in his watering bucket, in the same 



852 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

manner as directed for tlie manger. The buds or 
ulcers should be washed once a day with blue stone, 
or copperas water; and if the knees or ankles are 
swelled, spread on a piece of buckskin, mercurial 
ointment, and bind them up as tight as possible with- 
out giving pain. 

The second week bleed twice, taking half a gallon 
of blood each bleeding, if the horse is in tolerable 
order ; or if poor, only half the quantity : give the 
same number of mashes as directed for the first week ; 
also the same drink, taking care to renew the assafoe- 
tida in the manger and bucket, should it be suffi- 
ciently exhausted to require it. 

The third week bleed but once, taking one quart 
of blood : in other respects observe the same treat- 
ment as directed for the first and second weeks. Tlie 
horse should be moderately exercised about a mile 
twice a day, and occasionally should be offered a little 
hominy, as a change to keep up his appetite. By the 
time your attentions for the third week expire, if the 
disease is merely local, it will not only be removed, 
but the plight of the horse will be much improved. 

When the farcy begins to make its appearance 
epidemically, the case is rendered difficult, and will 
require the aid of more active medicine. Prepare 
and give to a horse thus diseased a ball every night 
for a week, composed of twenty-five grains of calomel, 
a quarter of an ounce of powdered fennel-seed, a small 
quantity of syrup of any kind, and as much crumb 
of loaf-bread as will make a ball about the size of an 
English walnut. 

All buds or ulcers should be washed clean in blue- 
stone water; after which they should be well rubbed 
around with mercurial ointment once a day ; a narrow 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 353 

pitch plaster should be laid on at the joining of the 
head and neck, in the direction of the throat-latch, 
for the purpose of taking ofl' the hair, which will 
happen in two or three days ; after which, a lump of 
mercurial ointment, about the size of a hickory-nut, 
must be rubbed on the naked part (every night and 
morning, until the expiration of the week), among the 
large glands of the throat, until it is entirely ab- 
sorbed. Added to which, the treatment generally may 
be the same as before recommended in the more sim- 
ple stage of the farcy, with these exceptions: the 
drink should never be cold, but milk-warm ; the 
mashes without sulphur counteract the effects of the 
calomel and ointment: he should not be bled, and 
great care should be used to prevent his getting wet, 
and catching cold in any way, while under the course 
of physic. 

At the expiration of the week, stop the balls and 
ointment for a week, adding sulphur to the mashes, 
as directed in the first stage of farcy. At the expira- 
tion of the second week, stop the sulphur, and again 
commence with the balls and ointment. Go on in this 
manner, continuing to change the medicine each 
week, until the cure is performed. 

It may sometimes happen that a horse's mouth will 
become sore before the expiration of a week, when 
taking the balls and using the ointment. Whenever 
this is discovered, stop with balls, and add sulphur to 
the mashes, which will readily remove the soreness 
about the mouth. 

STRAINS. 

Strains, in whatever part of the horse, either pro- 
duced from running, slips, blows, or hard riding, are 
30* 



354 VETEEINARY RECEIPTS. 

the relaxing, over-stretching or breaking the mascles 
or tendinous fibres. A strain, unless uncommonly 
bad, may be cured in a short time by applying the 
following remedies : 

IsTo. 1. Take of sharp vinegar, one pint ; spirits of 
any kind, half a pint; camphor, one ounce; mix them 
well together, and bathe the part injured twice a day; 
a piece of flannel, wet with the mixture, and wrapped 
around the part, will be very beneficial; take from 
the neck-vein half a gallon of blood. 

No. 2. Take of opodeldoc, a piece the size of a 
marble, and rub it on the strained part with the naked 
hand twice a day until the hand becomes dry. Should 
the injured part resist both of these remedies, you 
may conclude the injury is a very serious one, which 
nothing but time can relieve, and the horse must be 
turned out upon grass a sufficient length of time for 
nature herself to perform the great operation. 

RING BONE. 

The ring bone partakes of the nature of the spavin, 
and frequently proceeds from the same cause. It 
makes its appearance on the lower part of the pastern, 
and sometimes immediately beyond the coffin-joint. 
It is a hard and bony substance, and generally reaches 
half round the ankle, which gives to the ankle an 
unnatural appearance, and causes the horse to go stiff 
and lame. Its name has proceeded from its resem- 
blance to a ring. It seldom admits of a cure, conse- 
quently a horse diseased with it is worth but little. 
When the ring bone first makes its appearance, blis- 
ters of flies have sometimes been employed with suc- 
cess. But after growing to full size, and remaining 
some length of time, a cure is hopeless. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 355 

Remedy. — A strong preparation of corrosive subli- 
mate added to Spanish flies and Venice turpentine, 
4 and mixed with hog's lard, will often dissolve a ring 
bone. 

TO CURE RING HOOF IN HORSES. 

Cleanse the sore well with soap and water ; wipe 
dry, and wash with the following mixture twice a 
day : — Dissolve fifteen grains of corrosive sublimate 
in six ounces of alcohol ; shake well, and it is ready 
for use. 

SPLINT. 

The splint is a hard lump or excrescence that grows 
upon the fore-legs of a horse, between the fetlock and 
the knee. It is unpleasant to the eye, but seldom 
does injury, unless situated on the back of the leg, 
and immediately under the large tendons, in which 
case lameness is always produced, and the cure ren- 
dered difficult. 

When the splint is situated in the usual place, and 
grows so large as to be unfavorable to beauty, bathe 
the part with hot vinegar twice a day, and rub the 
knot or splint with a smooth round stick, after bathing 
for ten or fifteen minutes ; by the expiration of a week 
the knot will perceptibly decrease in size, and finally 
in a short time will disappear; but should such means 
not have the desired effect, shave off" the hair over 
the lump, and apply a blister of Spanish flies, which 
in a short time will effectually remove it. The splint, 
when first making its appearance, will cause a horse 
to limp a little ; and, as he advances in years, may 
stiffen him, and cause him to stumble. 



356 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

STRINGHALT. 

The stringhalt affects horses in their hind legs, 
and consists in a false action or involuntary use of a 
muscle which twitches one of the legs almost up to 
the belly ; and sometimes the string halt is produced 
by a muscle being overstrained, or by a violent blow 
on the hind parts. Good rubbing, and baths of warm 
vinegar and sweet-oil, afford momentary relief, but a 
permanent cure need not be expected. A horse thus 
injured is incapable of faithfully performing a jour- 
ney, although he may be ridden four or five miles 
without manifesting excessive fatigue. 

SPAVIN. 

A spavined horse may be considered as one com- 
pletely ruined ; for a permanent cure can rarely be 
effected, if attempted even on its first appearance. 

The spavin is a lump, knot, or swelling, on the in- 
side of the hock, below the joint, that benumbs the 
limbs, and destroys the free use of the hind legs. It 
causes a horse to be extremely lame, and to expe- 
rience, apparently, very excruciating pain. 

In the purchase of a horse, great respect should be 
paid to his bringing up his hind parts well, as a spa- 
vined horse never makes a full step with the leg 
affected ; also to the shape of his hocks, in order to 
discover if there is any knot or unnatural prominence 
about the joints, which is an evidence of the spavin. 
"When a horse is thus diseased, he is unfit for any 
kind of service, even the meanest drudgery, being in 
constant pain, and unable to perform labor. Horses 
sometimes have the spavin when there is no lump 
apparent near the joint, the disease being seated in 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 357 

the joint. To detect such spavin, have the horse 
ridden in three quarters speed, about one mile out 
and back, occasionally fretting, cracking, and draw- 
ing him up suddenly and short ; after which, let him 
be ridden in cold water up to the belly: then place 
him in a stall, without interruption, for about half an 
hour, by which time he will be perfectly cool. Then 
have him led out, and moved gently. If he has re- 
ceived a temporary cure of spavin, he will show lame- 
ness. A blister of Spanish flies applied to the part 
affected (after shaving off the hair), with a bath of 
strong spirits or vinegar, and a week's rest, will fre- 
quently suspend the lameness produced by the spavin 
for a time ; but a radical cure may not be expected. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

The following has been found to cure a bone spavin 
in its first stages, when properly applied. Add to two 
tablespoonsful of melted lard, one of cantharides, 
made fine or pulverized, and a lump of corrosive sub- 
limate, as large as a pea, pulverized — all melted up 
together, and applied once a day till used up. This 
quantity is for one leg, and may be relied on as a cure. 
It will make a sore, and the joint will be much weak- 
ened while applying the medicine, but no need of 
alarm ; it will be all right when healed up. 

GLANDERS. 

As an experiment, where the usual remedies had 
failed, a strong decoction of tobacco-juice was given 
internally, and proved successful. 



358 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

BIG HEAD IN HORSES. 

The following treatment has been tried and found 
to aiford temporary relief: — The duct that passes 
from the eye to the nose was laid bare, or an incision 
made in the large part of the nose, and the wound 
burned with a hot iron. But the horse, about two 
years afterwards, became diseased, dwindled away, 
and lost, measurably, the use of the parts. Afterwards, 
the following experiment on the same horse proved 
highly successful : — He was thrown and tied ; then a 
hot iron run through his head, inserting it into the 
lump on one side, and carrying it through the lump 
upon the other. The horse in a short time was well, 
and never after had any symptoms of the disease. 
Others were treated in the same way, with equal 
success. 

LAMPASS. 

All young horses are subject to the lampass, and 
some suffer extremely before it is discovered. 

It is a swelling or enlarging of the gums on the in- 
side of the upper jaw ; the growth is sometimes so 
large as to prevent a horse from eating with any com- 
fort. The remedy is simple, and after being applied, 
a horse will improve in his condition with great 
rapidity. 

Take a hot iron, flat, sharp, and a little crooked at 
the end, burn the lampass out just below^the level of 
the teeth, using great care to prevent the hot iron 
from bearing or resting on the teeth. After the ope- 
ration is performed, the horse should be given a little 
bran or meal, with a small quantity of salt in it. 
Some farriers have recommended cutting for the lam- 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 359 

pass, which only gives momentaiy relief, and would 
require the same operation to be performed every 
three or four months ; but when it is once burned out, 
it never again makes its appearance. 



HOOKS OR HAWS. 

The hooks or haws in a horse is the growing of a 
horny substance upon the inner edge of the washer 
or caruncle of the eye, which may be found in the 
inner corner, next to the nose. When this disease 
makes its appearance, the washer or caruncle is en- 
larged with great rapidit}^, and the ligament that runs 
along the edge of this membrane becomes extremely 
hard, or like a cartilage ; and whenever it arises to 
this state, it draws, compresses, and causes great pain 
to the eyes, produces a tightness of the skin, a stiif- 
ness of the hind legs, and finally a general spasmodic 
affection, throughout the whole sj'stem. 

The eyes are often inflamed, and sometimes dis- 
eased, without their having the hooks. For the pur- 
pose of ascertaining the fact, take hold of the bridle, 
and raise the horse's head as high as you can, with 
convenience, reach : if he is diseased with the hooks, 
the washer or caruncle of the eye, while his head is 
raised up, will cover at least one-half the surface of the 
eye-ball. When this is the case, take a common sized 
needle, with a strong thread [having placed on the 
horse's nose a twitch, to prevent his moving]; then take 
in your thumb and finger the washer or caruncle of the 
eye, and pass the needle through it, about a quarter 
of an inch from the outer edge, and inside the horny 
substance ; draw it gently with the needle and thread, 
until you have a fair chance of performing the opera- 



360 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

tion ; then with a sharp knife cut the piece out taken 
with the needle, which must not be larger than one- 
fourth the size of a half-dime : wash the eyes for two 
or three mornings with salt and water, bathe his legs 
up to his belly in equal parts of warm vinegar, spirits, 
and oil, or fresh butter, and give a mash of one and 
a half gallons of bran or oats, one tablespoonful of 
flour of sulphur, one teaspoonful of saltpeter, and the 
cure will be performed, in all probability, in four or 
five days. Great care should be taken not to cut too 
large a piece from the caruncle, as it disfigures the 
eye, and sometimes produces blindness. 



LOCKJAW. 

The lockjaw being so fatal in its consequences, it 
is a fortunate circumstance that it occurs so seldom 
among horses. 

It commences with a difiiculty in mastication ; and 
shortly after the jaws are so completely and im- 
movably closed, that it is with much difficulty that 
medicine can be administered. The muscles of the 
neck appear to be much contracted, and the animal 
seems to suffer great pain. 

The lockjaw is frequently brought on by trifling 
causes, such as cuts, wounding of nerves, tendons, 
&c. Generally speaking, the cure is uncertain ; but 
it will chiefly depend on opium, the warm bath, and 
other anti-spasmodics. Sometimes the sudden appli- 
cation of cold water, in great quantities, has been 
serviceable ; friction of turpentine, oil, or spirits, gene- 
rally proves useful, as does a clyster made with two 
ounces of spirits of hartshorn, four ounces of oil of 
turpentine, and the yolk of three or four eggs, mixed 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 361 

with a quart of strong ale and gin, or whiskey. It is 
a great object to promote urine, sweat, &c. Opium, 
camphor, and copious bleedings have been found, 
in some cases, very beneficial ; and when they have 
failed, hartshorn, ether, opium, and brandy, have been 
employed with some success ; though the lockjaw is 
often a symptom of approaching dissolution, and fre- 
quently defies the power of all kinds of medicine that 
have yet been employed in its treatment. 



GRAVEL IN THE HOOFS. 

The gravel in the hoof is an incident that happens 
to horses in traveling, and is brought on by small 
stones or grit getting between the hoof and shoe, set- 
tling to the quick, and then inflaming and festering ; 
it produces lameness, and causes a horse to undergo 
very excruciating pain. The first step necessary for 
a horse's relief is to have his shoes taken off" and get 
the stones out. You may readily determine where 
they lie, by pressing the edge of the hoof with a pair 
of pincers, after all the gravel is removed, which may 
be known by a discontinuation of the blackness of 
the place. The wound caused by cutting for the 
gravel may be easily healed by melting together 
equal parts of beeswax, resin, fresh butter, or sweet- 
oil, and pouring the mixture on the wound, warm as 
the animal can bear it without giving pain. Then 
warm a little tar or pitch, and pour a small quantity 
over the wound and its neighboring parts to keep 
out the dust and defend the foot from any hard sub- 
stance for a few days, by which time it will get 
well. 



31 



362 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

STONE OR GRAVEL IN THE BLADDER. 

Fortunately the stone is a disease not very common 
among horses ; but whenever it makes its appearance, 
unless some remedy is immediately employed, its 
consequences are to be much dreaded. It consists in 
small gravel or stones being lodged in the bladder, 
which prevent a free discharge of urine, and produce 
the most excruciating pain. The horse will linger 
and pine away until he can scarcely support the 
burden of life. 

Symptoms. — Frequent stretching, groaning, and 
many fruitless attempts to pass water, which will 
finally be discharged by a few drops at a time, with 
great apparent pain, a shrinking of the flesh, although 
the appetite is good, no fever, but a dull, sluggish, 
and sleepy appearance, wanting much in his usual 
spirits. 

Remedy. — Take of marsh-mallows, water-melon 
seed, and asparagus, each two large handsful ; boil 
them in three quarts of water to one quart, and add 
one teaspoonful of saltpeter, and give the whole as a 
drench, after being nicely strained. 

Take of sweet-oil, or fresh butter, one tablespoon- 
ful ; grease his sheath, and draw out gently and 
grease his penis ; also grease the large seam from the 
penis up near the anus ; and with the hand, bearing 
a little, stroke the seam downward to the end of the 
penis, for ten minutes every hour, until the horse has 
a urinary discharge, which in all probability will take 
place in one or two hours after taking the drench. 
Should some blood be passed, it may be no cause of 
alarm, and will clearly prove there is gravel in the 
urinary passages. Repeat the dose in three hours, 
should the desired effect not be produced. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 363 



HIDE-BOUND. 

A horse is said to be hide-bound when his skin will 
not slip under the pressure of the hand, but sticks as 
fast to the ribs as if it were glued. 

Horses are sometimes hide-bound in consequence 
of some violent disease, and it is often a bad symp- 
tom; but, generally, this tightness of the skin pro- 
ceeds from bad or insufficient provender, cruel usage, 
and sometimes from worms. 

The first thing necessary for performing a cure is 
to offer better treatment to the animal, giving him 
plenty of light food, such as bran, oats, &c., and a 
clean stable, with fresh litter. Then take from the 
neck-vein half a gallon of blood. At night give a 
mash composed of one gallon of bran, scalded with 
sassafras tea, one tablespoonful of flour of sulphur, or 
powdered brimstone, and one teaspoonful of saltpeter, 
not permitting him to drink for six hours afterward. 
On the second day, at twelve o'clock, take of cop- 
peras, two tablespoon sful ; of warm sassafras tea, one 
quart ; saltpeter, one teaspoonful. Mix, and give 
them as a drench. Have the horse well rubbed, and 
in a few days he will be entirely relieved. 

YELLOW WATER. 

The yellow water is very infectious. It is ex- 
tremely fatal in its consequences, unless some remedy 
is employed shortly after it makes its appearance. 

Symptoms of Yellow Water. — The characteristics of 
this disease are a dusky yellowness of the eyes, lips, 
and bars of the mouth ; a dull, sluggish appearance, 
a loss of appetite ; the excrement hard, dry, yellow. 



364 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

and sometimes of a pale or light green ; the urine 
uncommonly dark, of a dirty brown color, and when 
discharged a length of time has the appearance of 
blood. 

Remedy. — Take of assafoetida, one ounce ; cam- 
phorated spirits, four tablespoonsful ; warm water, 
one pint. Mix, and give them as a drench, for three 
or four mornings successively. Take of bran, one and 
a half gallons ; flour of sulphur, one tablespoonful ; 
antimony, twenty grains. Mix them well together, 
and with a strong decoction of sassafras, scald the 
bran, forming a mash, which must be given three 
nights in the week, not permitting the horse to get 
wet, or drink water, except it is milk-warm. His 
stable should be a comfortable one, and he should 
have a clean bed of straw placed under him. Bleed 
twice in the neck-vein, taking half a gallon of blood 
at each bleeding, within the week. Let his exercise 
be regular and moderate ; and by the expiration of 
nine or ten days, the cure, in all probability, will be 
performed. 

REMEDY FOR THE BOTTS, NO. I. 

A tablespoonful of slacked lime, given three times 
a week, in bread mashes, for near two weeks, has 
caused the botts to pass off in quantities, varying from 
ten to twenty during the night. 

As an evidence of its good effects, a gentleman who 
has tried it in many cases, says he has not lost a horse 
since he began to use it. A large number of the botts 
thus expelled had the appearance of being dead. 
This fact induced him to put some of the live ones in 
a strong solution of lime-water (spirits of turpentine 



VETERINAKY RECEIPTS. 365 

having produced no effect on them), and all those put 
into lime-water were dead in eight-and-forty hours. 

Lime-water is a certain preventive in keeping cattle 
from taking the murrain. As an evidence of this fact, 
it has been used among cattle three times per week, 
mixed with salt, for three or four years ; and in that 
time not a single cow, or steer, or ox, was lost by this 
disease. In the mean time, some of the neighbors 
lost nearly all the cattle they owned, 

No doubt it is a sure and infallible remedy for 
botts in horses, and a preventive of murrain among 
cattle. 

REMEDY FOR THE BOTTS, NO. II. 

To make botts let go their hold, give the horse a 
quantity of molasses or dissolved sugar, with a quart 
of sweet milk ; in thirty minutes, you will find the 
horse at ease. Then pulverize an eighth of a pound 
of alum, dissolved in a quart of warm water, and 
drench your horse. After two hours, or less, give 
the horse one pound of salts, and you will find the 
botts in the dung. The molasses and sweet milk 
will cause the botts to let go, and prey upon the 
sweetening. The alum contracts them, and the salts 
pass them off. 

REMEDY FOR THE BOTTS, NO. III. 

The ingredients are simple, and too mild to pro- 
duce any injurious effects on the animal to which 
they may be administered. They consist of new 
milk, honey, or molasses, common salt and water, 
and linseed-oil. The manner of preparing and ad- 
ministering is as follows: — As soon as the disease 
31* 



366 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

(the symptoms of which are unerring) is ascertained, 
drench the horse, fasting if possible, with a quart of 
fresh milk saturated with honey, molasses, or sugar ; 
to be preferred in the order stated. Leave him at 
rest for two hours ; at the expiration of which, having 
previously prepared some strong brine, by boiling as 
much common salt as can be dissolved in it, drench 
him as before with a pint of it when cool. After a 
similar period of two hours, give him half a pint of 
linseed-oil, and the remedy is complete. 

TO KILL LICE ON HORSES, COWS AND HOGS. 

Take the water in which potatoes have been boiled, 
rub it all over the skin. The lice will be dead within 
two hours, and never will multiply again. 

DISTEMPER IN CATTLE 

May be cured by boiling the common poke-root to 
a strong decoction, and administering a quart of it 
three times a day. 

DISEASES AND TREATMENT OF CATTLE. 

All cattle brought to the South from England, as 
well as those from the North and West, are very 
liable to be attacked with a fatal disease, similar to 
an inflammation of the brain. 

Young cattle, from eight months to one year old, 
are less subject to it than those more advanced in life. 
If they survive the summer and autumn, I consider 
them safe, although great care should be taken of 
them the second season. They should be brought as 
early in the fall as possible, kept in good growing 
condition through the winter, and in the spring be 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 367 

removed to a high, healthy position, have easy access 
to pure water, and their pasture as much shaded as 
the nature of the ground will admit. In August and 
September, they should be kept in a cool stable, 
during the heat of the day, and at night also, the dew 
at that season being almost as injurious as the intense 
heat of the sun. 

With these precautions, probably more than half 
would escape the disease, the first indication of 
which is usually a languid appearance of the animal, 
followed by the loss of appetite, short, quick breath- 
ing, with more or less fever, and not unfrequently a 
cough. 

I have hitherto considered this disease, when once 
established, incurable. I have recently learned, how- 
ever, that by sawing off the horns, close to the head, 
nine out of ten would recover. They may be bled 
copiously, which relieves the dullness about the eyes. 
After the bleeding is stopped, bind cloths, plastered 
with tar, around the stump, as a protection against 
flies. 

TO KILL LICE ON CATTLE. 

We have been informed by a gentleman who has 
for many years kept a large stock of cattle, that fine, 
dry sand scattered on the back, neck, and sides of 
the animals, is an effectual remedy against these ver- 
min. He collects dry sand, and puts it in a box or 
tub in the barn, and occasionally applies it during 
the winter, by sifting or strewing it over the body of 
each creature, with complete success in ridding it of 
its troublesome guests. 



368 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 



ANOTHER R E ]\I E D Y . 

Make a strong sassafras tea, or red pepper tea (or 
a mixture of both is preferable), with a reasonable 
portion of lard, and rub or wash the animal with it 
every two or three days. It will kill the lice, and 
destroy the nits as fast as they hatch ; and, by a few 
washings, the animal will soon be rid of the lice. 
It is a sure and safe remedy. 

TO DESTROY VERMIN ON CATTLE. 

A strong decoction of tobacco, w^ashed over a beast 
infected with vermin, will generally drive them 
away. It sometimes will make the beast very sick 
for a short time. But a better remedy is to mix 
plenty of strong Scotch snuff in train oil, and rub the 
back and neck of the creature with it. This will 
effectually kill or drive away all vermin from a 
quadruped. 

TO DESTROY VERMIN ON CATTLE, AND CURE THE 
MANGE. 

Put into an earthen vessel four ounces of flour of 
sulphur, and a pound weight of nut-oil; place the 
vessel upon a moderate fire, and stir the mixture with 
a piece of wood, until part of the flour of sulphur is 
dissolved, and the oil has acquired a reddish-brown 
color ; then remove it from off the fire ; and before 
it is entirely cold, add four ounces of essence of tur- 
pentine; then stir it again, until it is incorporated. 
This preparation is neither expensive nor compli 
cated ; and when used, is merely put upon the parts 
infected Avith a feather. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 369 



HORN DISTEMPER, OR HORN AIL, 

Is a disorder incident to horned cattle, by which 
the internal substance of the horn (commonly called 
the pith, which is the spongy part of the bone), 
wastes away, &c. This disorder may be known by 
a dullness in the countenance, a sluggish motion, 
want of appetite, a desire to lie down frequently, 
shaking the head, and appearing dizzy, &c. To be 
sure of this disease, take a small gimlet, and perfo- 
rate the horn two or three inches above the head : if 
it is hollow, and no blood follows, it is the hollow 
horn. This distemper is generally brought on by 
poor keeping, &c. 

Bore each horn at the upper and lower side, that 
the drain may have vent, and administer at least 
two or three doses of salts, or some gentle purgative ; 
inject into the horn strong vinegar. This will cleanse 
the horn, and effect a cure. Sawing off the horn is 
sometimes resorted to, but the above treatment is 
preferable. 

ON THE DISEASE COMMONLY CALLED THE HOLLOW 
HORN. 

This is a disease that is highly inflammatory and 
infectious, and the animal having it ought to be re- 
moved from the herd until well. 

The following mode of treatment has been found 
very successful, and the beast is soon restored to a 
thriving state. As soon as you discover an animal 
affected with the hollow horn, bleed it from the neck 
(in the same vein in which a horse is bled), from two 
to six or seven quarts, according to its age, size, nnd 



870 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

condition, and administer three quarters to one pound 
and a half of glauber salts ; with a middle-sized gim- 
let, open the horns through and through, marking 
the holes, that they be perpendicular in the usual 
position the animal carries its head, so that the pus 
formed may have a free discharge as soon as the 
horns are opened ; put through the hole into each 
about a tablespoonful of strong vinegar, in which 
some salt and black pepper, ground, has been put. 
The day following, the horns must be again opened, 
and cleansed from the pus, which generally is now 
formed, and about half a teaspoonful of spirits of tur- 
pentine put into each horn ; and a little on the poll 
of the animal daily, during the continuance of the 
disease. One bleeding is generally sufficient, but 
there are cases in which it is necessary to repeat it 
three times, as also the salts. The food, during the 
continuance of the disease, is important — corn in 
every shape is bad — potatoes are of great use (with 
a small quantity of brewer's grains) ; and the animal 
ought to have from one to two and a half pecks daily, 
with hay in the winter, and grass if in the summer. 
Potatoes have a wonderful effect on the animal, as 
soon as the bowels are well cleansed ; the importance 
of which any person will be convinced of who ob- 
serves the discharge of the animal. In some obsti- 
nate cases, give daily from a half to one ounce of 
niter, sprinkled with potatoes. It is important, in the 
first bleeding, to take as much blood as the animal 
will bear, as the fever is more easily checked by one 
large bleeding than two small ones, and the animal 
better able to bear it. In many cases the bleeding 
and salts have been sufficient without opening the 
horns, and when taken in the early stage will gene- 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 371 

rally be found to answer; but the boring certainly 
assists in forming anew the internal part of the horn, 
and as soon as it commences forming, the holes in 
the horn should be allowed to close. An animal 
having the hollow horn should be sheltered from the 
inclemency of the weather, during its continuance. 
No age appears exempt from its attacks. I have seen 
it in a yearling, as well as at all subsequent ages. 

The fleam for bleeding cattle should be rather 
deeper than that used for a horse, the vein in the 
neck not lying so near the surface : the orifice is 
closed with a pin, in the same way as in bleeding a 
horse. 

HOOF-AIL. 

Blue vitriol finely pulverized, and applied to the 
diseased part of the hoof, once a day for two or three 
days, is all that is necessary to effect a cure. One 
application is sometimes sufficient. 



ANOTHER REMEDY. 

This disease is generally brought on by driving 
cattle on hard or muddy roads. The first symptom 
is lameness. When this is noticed, the foot on ex- 
amination will be found to be in some degree inflamed 
and swollen. Wash the foot in pickle as strong as 
you can make it. This has frequently proved effectual, 
but if it does not, an ointment made of corrosive sub- 
limate and hog's lard, rubbed in the slit between the 
hoofs, is a good remedy. If it be neglected, the parts 
below the hoof will become dry and horny, in which 
case the hard part must be cut out, and the wounded 
flesh cured with healing ointment. 



£72 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

TO RELIEVE CHOKED CATTLE. 

After an ineffectual resort to the usual remedies, a 
choked ox has been relieved by holding up his head, 
and pouring into his mouth a strong solution of soap 
and water. The relief was instantaneous, the turnip 
with which he was choked passing down immediately. 

HOVEN CATTLE, 

Have a decoction of anise and fennel-seed prepared 
by boiling for a few minutes a handful composed of 
equal quantities of the two, in a pint of water. To 
this add one pound of hog's lard, and give it to the 
animal in the usual way. If one dose is not effectual, 
give a second. 

SWELLED OR SNARLED UDDERS IN COWS. 

Cows, soon after calving, are subject to have swell- 
ings or knots in their udders ; this is more particularly 
the case with heifers with their first calves. It some- 
times proceeds from colds contracted prior to calving; 
at others, from the inability of the calf to extract all 
the milk, which throws the cow into a feverish con- 
dition, and the formation of indurated surfaces con- 
sequently follows. Should fever accompany these 
lumps, a little cooling medicine will be proper, such 
as a solution of half a pound of Epsom salts in a 
drench, to be followed with good nourishing messes, 
say one peck of bran, and half a pound of flaxseed- 
meal, to be first boiled, and given warm, morning 
and night, for a few days. To reduce the swelling 
in the udder, the following receipt will be found ex- 
cellent : — 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 373 

Take a handful of rue, and the same quantity of 
wormseed ; bruise them both well, and put them into 
a skillet or other vessel, with a pound of unsalted 
butter, fresh from the churn ; simmer the whole well 
over a slow fire for an hour ; then strain the mixture 
through a sieve or linen cloth, and you have the best 
ointment that can be ajpplied. Let the inflamed and 
hardened part be gently anointed three times a day 
with the hand, and in a few days the cure will be 
eflfeeted, if this remedy is applied in time. 

Care should always be taken before the calf is turned 
to the cow, for several days after she has calved, to 
let the dairy-woman draw off a portion of the milk ; 
by so doing, you are sure the calf will extract the 
rest : by thus emptying the cow's udders, you will 
prevent the ill-consequences which ensue, where a 
part of the milk is left in the bag. 



A CURE FOR MURRAIN. 

Give one and a half ounces pearlash, dissolved in 
two quarts of iron-water (from a blacksmith's trough). 
If not better in five hours, give half an ounce more 
in one quart of water. The water should be warm. 
Give no drink but warm water, for two days. Give 
warm mash to eat. 



CURE FOR THE BLOODY MURRAIN. 

Take a piece of poke-root, as large as a man's fist, 
say half a pound in weight, cut it fine, add two quarts 
of water, boil it down to one quart. This quantity 
must be given once a day, for two or three days, to a 
cow or bull, when the cure will be effected. 
32 



374 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 



CURE FOR MURRAIN IN CATTLE. 

Glauber salts, one pound ; niter and cream of tartar 
in powder, each one ounce ; ginger pulverized, two 
ounces; treacle or molasses, four teaspoonsful ; mix 
for a dose. If it does not succeed in twenty-four 
hours, add strained turpentine, four ounces ; Ar- 
menian bale bayberries, and red-saunders in powder, 
of each two ounces ; mix in a mortar, and beat it 
into a proper consistence for the bale or ball. 

FILMS ON THE EYE. 

The easiest, as well as most effectual remedy for 
removing a film from the eye of an animal, is simply 
to put a teaspoonful of molasses on the eye-ball. 
Oxen, horses, cows, and sheep, have, in this manner, 
been relieved. 

SALT FOR CATTLE. 

Let it be remembered, that salt, when given to 
animals, enables the farmer to increase his live stock, 
and keep them in health : hence it ought freely to be 
given to sheep, and cattle of every description ; but, 
to imitate nature, it should be previously dissolved, 
and then mixed with pure, fine clay, in a mass, which 
is to be placed under a shelter, so that the animals 
may lap it at pleasure. 

A CURE FOR SCOURS IN CALVES. 

Take a tablespoonful of finel}' powdered chalk, and 
a like quantity of ground ginger, put it in a bowl, 
pour boiling new milk on it, half a pint; stir it well, 
and then give this dose about milk warm, night and 
morning, to the calf, and in nine cases out often, two 
doses will be sufiicieut. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 0(0 



DISEASES OF CALVES. 

The diseases of calves are principally confined to a 
species of convulsions which now and then attacks 
them, and which sometimes arise from worms, and 
at others from cold. When the first cause operates, 
it is relieved by giving a mild aloetic purge, or in de- 
fault of that, a mild dose of oil of turpentine, half an 
ounce, night and morning. In the second, wrap up 
the animal warm, and drench with ale and laudanum, 
a drachm. Calves are also subject to diarrhoea, or 
scouring, which will readily yield to the usual medi- 
cines. 

CURE FOR POISONED SHEEP. 

In the spring of the year, sheep and lambs are very 
apt to eat the green leaves of the low laurel, or camp- 
kill, as it is sometimes called. This brings on a 
retching or vomiting of a greenish fluid, which the 
sheep again swallow down. The animal begins to 
swell and becomes stupid, refuses to eat or drink, and 
finally dies. As soon as a sheep is discovered to be 
sick, and throw up the fluid above mentioned, fix a 
gag in its mouth by taking a short stick, or a corn- 
cob, tying a string at each end, put it into the mouth, 
and passing the string up over the head of the sheep, 
so as to keep the gag in, and the mouth open. This 
prevents them from swallowing. A dose of weak 
ammonia is very good. Roasted onions put under 
the fore-legs are also beneficial. A gentleman recom- 
mends a strong decoction of the bruised twigs of 
white-ash, given in doses of two spoonsful to a sheep, 
especially if administered within the last twenty-four 
hours after the sheep has eaten the poison. 



376 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

DISEASES OF SHEEP. 

The great losses which wool-growers frequently 
sustain in consequence of the sickness and death of 
large numbers of their flocks, have induced us to 
compile from a rare and valuable English work a 
synopsis of the diseases to which sheep are liable, to- 
gether with the symptoms by which thej are known, 
and the treatment by which they are remedied. The 
causes of the disease are in some cases assigned, and 
it is believed if they are carefully avoided, and the 
remedies promptly and faithfully applied, the losses 
from disease and death will in a great degree be pre- 
vented, and the profits arising from their fleeces and 
young be materially increased. As the remedies are 
simple, and the ingredients composing the prescrip- 
tions within the reach of every farmer, it is to be 
hoped that every wool-grower who has the misfortune 
to have a diseased flock will give them a thorough 
trial. 

Fever, — Fever in sheep is an inflamed state of 
the blood, disordering the eye and mouth, and afl'ect- 
ing the whole body, though not visibly. When any 
of the symptoms of a fever appear, the feet of the 
sheep should be examined, and if found to be hot, 
there is no doubt of the character of the disease : 
other diseases will produce an inflammation of the 
eyes and mouth, but hot feet are an infallible symp- 
tom of fever. This disease is often fatal in itself, and 
frequently induces others which are equally so. The 
cause is generally a cold. "When only two or three 
of the flock are aftected by it, the case is less despe- 
rate ; but when many are attacked with it, it is more 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 377 

fatal. The remedy is to keep the sheep in warmer 
and more sheltered places : bleed and give the follow- 
ing medicine: — 

Heat a quart of ale, and dissolve in it an ounce of 
nithritate, add half an ounce of Virginia snake-root, 
and one drachm cochineal in powder. This quantity 
serves for four doses, and one of them is to be given 
morning and evening. If the sheep is bound in its 
body, an ounce of sanative electuary is to be mixed 
with each dose ; but if looser than ordinary, it ought 
not to be checked. 

Purging, — Leave nature to her course when a 
purging comes on with a fever ; but when the fever 
is abated, it should be stopped ; and the same remedy 
that answers for this purpose may be adopted for such 
purgings as come on of themselves. Boil a quarter 
of a pound of raspings of logwood in two quarts of 
water till but a quart is left, and when it is nearly 
boiled down, put in a stick of cinnamon, strain it off', 
and give the sheep a quarter of a pint, four times a 
day, till the purging ceases. If this does not produce 
the desired result, the following addition will render 
it sure of success : — To every dose, add a quarter of 
an ounce of diascordium without honey, and ten 
grains of Japan earth powdered, and give the doses 
only morning and evening. 

Tag. — The tag is an external disease, owing to the 
complaint last named. It is a distemper of the tail, 
beginning with filth and foulness, and ending in 
ulceration. The tag is situated in the inner part of 
the tail ; it consists of scabs and sores, very painful 
and wasting to the animal and is owing to the fouling 
82* 



378 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

of this part by purging ; that tag is worst which fol- 
lows a fever, because the inflamed state of the blood 
tends to increase the disorder, and when it begins 
during the continuance of the disease, the matter of 
the fever may chance to settle it there. Two things 
are to be done ; the first is to stop the purging, and 
the other to clean the tail. The last mentioned re- 
medy, either in its weaker or stronger form, is to be 
used to stop the purging; and the tail being clipped, 
and the sore part laid bare, wash it first with milk 
and water, blood-warm, and then with lime-water; 
after this, turn the sheep into a clean, dry pasture. 
Two days after look at it again, and if not well, re- 
peat the washing, and anoint it with grease and tar 
mixed together. Twice doing of this is generally 
sufdcient to complete the cure. 

Disease of the Lungs. — Sheep are subject to be 
diseased in the lungs, which is easily perceived by 
their breathing or by their coughing. Nothing re- 
quires a more speedy remedy, for they grow incurable 
when it is neglected a short time, and die as men with 
a consumption. Change of their pasture is essential 
to the cure ; without it, no remedy is eftectual. It is 
owing to cold, and generally attacks sheep that have 
been kept on low grounds in wet weather. When 
any of the flock exhibit symptoms of diseased lungs, 
drive them into an enclosed pasture where there is 
short grass and a gravelly soil, and where there is 
spring or other running water ; bruise a basketful of 
the leaves of colts-foot, and press out the juice ; bruise 
a quantity of plantain leaves and roots together, and 
press out the juice; mix these, and bruise as much 
garlic as will yield about a fourth part as much juice 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 379 

as one of the others ; mix all together, and add to 
them a pound of honey, an ounce of anise-seed, and 
an ounce and a half of elecampane ; give a quarter 
of a pint of this warm once in a day, to every sheep 
that is affected, and it will, by degrees, make a per- 
fect cure. 

Jaundice. — Sheep are more subject than any other 
animals to obstructions of the liver. "When this is 
the case, it is seen in a yellowness of the eyes, and a 
tint of the same kind in the skin. Farmers, in some 
places, call this the choler, or, in their language, the 
color. When sheep are attacked with jaundice, they 
should be put into an open pasture, and kept in mo- 
derate motion, but not fatigued. Boil, in four gallons 
of water, two pounds of fennel-roots, the same quan- 
tity of parsley-roots, and twice as much of the roots 
of cough-grass, all cut small. "When the water is very 
strong of them, and there is about half the quantity 
left, strain it off by pressing it hard ; bruise as much 
great celandine as will yield three pints of juice ; add 
this to the liquor, and put in three drachms of salt of 
steel ; mix all together, and every day beat as much 
of it as will serve to give each sheep that is ill a gill 
and a half for a dose. This, with the forementioned 
directions, rarely fails of a cure. 

Stoppage in the Throat. — Sheep affected with 
stoppage in the throat wheeze and breathe with diffi- 
culty. It is commonly occasioned by bad pasturage 
and colds. The remedy is to put them on higher 
ground; keep them warm, and give them the follow- 
ing medicine: — Bruise a good quantity of penny- 
royal, and squeeze out the juice ; put to a quart of it 



380 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

a pound of honey, and half a pint of sharp vinegar. 
Give half a pint of this, blood-warm, every night. 

Sturdiness. — This is a giddiness in the head. It 
is owing, principally, to rich feeding. The remedy is 
as follows: — Bleed profusel}-, and add the following 
treatment : bruise some roots of wild valerian, squeeze 
out the juice, heat it, and give a quarter of a pint: 
repeat the dose every four hours. When the sheep 
is recovered, turn it upon the common, or into some 
barren, hilly pasture. It will be kept from relapses 
by having but little food, and that perfectly whole- 
some. If the disease returns, it is commonly fatal. 

Wood Evil. — This disease is a kind of cramp ; it 
seizes the legs, and will often attack a whole flock at 
once. Cold and wet are the cause ; lying under the 
dripping trees in rainy seasons has often occasioned it, 
and hence its name. In order to effect a cure, the 
sheep must be removed to a dry pasture, and there 
proper remedies may take effect. The following 
medicine is recommended: — Boil in a large quantity 
of ale, as much cinquefoil, and hedge mustard, as can 
be well stirred into it. When the liquor is very 
strong, strain it off", and add a pint of juice of valerian 
root to every gallon. Give half a pint of this morn- 
ing and evening. Boil in vinegar a large quantity of 
the leaves of hedge mustard, and with the hot liquor 
rub the legs. 

SiAGaERS. — Sheep, as well as horses, are sometimes 
afflicted with the staggers. It is occasioned by im- 
proper food. Oak leaves and buds are particularly 
prejudicial. They bind the bowels, and staggers fre- 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 381 

quently follow. The symptoms are the same as in 
eturdiness, but more violent, and there is generally a 
trembling at the same time in all the limbs. To cure 
this disorder, dissolve half an ounce of assafoetida in 
two quarts of water ; give a quarter of a pint, warm, 
every three hours. It commonly opens the bowels at 
the same time that it takes immediate effect on the 
nervous system, and thus performs a cure. When 
the sheep are recovered, let them be kept out of the 
way of a return to the same food, and they will be in 
no danger of a relapse. 

Another. — Half a pint of hog's lard melted and 
poured down a sheep, will cure the blind staggers in 
ten minutes. 

Scab. — This is a disorder to which sheep are very 
liable. "When they are kept in dry, wholesome pas- 
tures, they are but seldom afflicted with the scab ; but 
when they are on low, wet grounds, or get under the 
drippings of trees in bad seasons, they are frequently 
affected by it in the severest manner. The symptoms 
are scurvy skins, which in a little time rise to scabs ; 
the wool grows loose, and the sheep pine and become 
lean. If they are attacked in a season when they 
can be sheared, it should be immediately done, as 
nothing is so sure to eflect a cure. If the season will 
not admit of shearing, they must be washed with soap- 
suds, made very strong, and used warm with a piece 
of flannel or a brush. After this, they must be let 
loose into a clean pasture, and driven up again as 
soon as well dried, and the sore parts of the skin must 
be well wetted with lime-water. The scurvy part of 
the skin must be attended to; and the doing this three 
times, at intervals of two days, will generally effect a 



382 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

cure. But if it fails, the parts that have been thus 
washed and cleansed must be anointed with a mix- 
ture of equal parts of tar and grease, and they will 
soon be perfectly well. No inward medicines are re- 
quired, for the complaint is only of the skin. 

Another. — A gentleman informs us, that his flock 
were so much afflicted with scab, that he lost one 
hundred, and the value of his fleeces was diminished 
eleven cents per pound, in consetjuence of the diseased 
state of the animals. He cured them of disease, and 
restored his flock to fine condition, in which they still 
remain, by the following : — He boiled eight pounds 
of tobacco in eight pailsful of water, down to five 
pailsful ; to this he added five pailsful of weak ley 
from wood-ashes, one barrel of soft soap, and some 
water. Filling in part a half-hogshead with the liquid, 
he dipped into it three hundred and fifty sheep, liquid 
being added as required ; the sheep, as fast as they 
were dipped, were placed in another tub, and the 
liquid pressed out of the fleece with the hands. The 
wash cleanses the skin from all scurf, kills the lice 
and ticks, promotes perspiration, and greatly facili- 
tates the growth of the fleece and health of the animal. 
There is no doubt of the utility of any application that 
destroys the lice and ticks, and fits the skin, by 
thoroughly cleansing it, to perform its all-important 
functions. 

Red Water. — This is an inflammation of the skin 
that often raises it into blisters, in which is contained 
a sharp humor, thin, water}-, and colored with blood. 
Nothing should be done to strike it in, but the cure 
must be eftected by correcting the bad state of the 
blood. Sheep afflicted with it should be separated 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 383 

from the flock, otherwise it will be apt to spread 
through the whole. They should also be put into a 
pasture where the grass is sweet, and w^here they can 
have access to good water. Mix half an ounce of 
sulphur with an ounce of honey ; work it well toge- 
ther, and then divide it into two parts ; dissolve one 
of these in half a pint of juice of nettles, and give it 
every day for a fortnight. Slit the blisters when they 
are full of this w^atery humor, and having let the mat- 
ter out, wet the place with juice of wormwood ; after 
four days of this course, bleed them, and then con- 
tinue th#same method till they are well. 

Foot Worm. — Sheep are liable to breed worms be- 
tween their feet, principally, however, when they are 
kept in wet pastures. It is very painful to them, and 
will make them pine away. It is perceived by their 
frequently holdings up one foot, and by setting it ten- 
derly down. Let the foot be washed clean, particu- 
larly.between the toes, and there will be found a little 
lump, like a tuft of hair; this is the head of the 
wound. It is to be taken out with care, for it is of a 
tender substance, and if it be broken in the foot it 
will occasion inflammation. The best method is to 
open the flesh on each side of it, and then, by means 
of a pair of nippers, to take it out. Dress the wound 
with tar and grease, melted together in equal quanti- 
ties, and turn the sheep loose. It is better to put 
them into a fresh pasture ; for, if the same disorder 
returns, it is generally worse. 

Wildfire. — This is a violent inflammation, not 
unlike St. Anthony's tire, upon the skin in different 
places, and generally affects the whole flock. The 



384 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

following is a method of cure: — Separate such as are 
affected with the disease from the flock, bleed, and 
prepare the following external remedy : Bruise the 
leaves of wild chervil, and add to them as much lime- 
water as will make the whole very soft ; when it is 
beaten up together, add as much powder of fenugveck 
seed as will reduce it to pap ; then put it into a pan, 
and set it in a cool place ; rub the inflamed part care- 
fully with this every evening, and make as much lie 
on as can be kept there ; it will take effect during the 
time of rest, and is to be repeated as long as there is 
occasion. 

Disorders of the Eyes. — Sheep are often affected 
with colds falling upon their eyes, and almost blind- 
ing them. The remedy is to press out the juice of 
great celandine, and drop a quantity of it into the 
ej'es, night and morning. 

Dropsy. — Sheep are often swelled with water m 
their bellies ; and this, if not regarded in time, is 
certain death. There are two parts in which it is 
lodged ; the one is between the outward flesh and the 
rind, the other within the rind. The first is easily 
cured ; for the other, nothing eflectual can be done. 
The method, in the first case, is by a coarse kind of 
tapping. An opening is to be made in the flesh, and a 
quill thrust in. This will give the water a free pas- 
sage out, and the wound heals of itself. But when 
the sheep is emaciated, nature will not have strength 
to heal it ; and the sheep must be examined daily, 
and the wound dressed with tar and grease. It must 
also be put into a fresh, dry, and wholesome pasture, 
and then disposed of as soon as recruited ; for this is 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 385 

a disorder that never fails to return upon any mis- 
management in keeping. 

The Rot. — This is the most destructive disease to 
which sheep are subject. Like the murrain, it is con- 
tagious, and generally spreads through the whole 
flock, and often over the neighboring country. Flocks 
that are fed upon open commons are more subject to 
it than such as have shelter and are taken care of at 
night. It frequently prevails in cold seasons, and 
when drizzling rains come on soon after shearing. 
Want of food will also occasion this disease, as will 
likewise the eating of such grass as is full of un- 
wholesome plants. These are among the causes of 
this fatal distemper; but the worst and most common 
is infection. Keep sheep out of the way of these 
causes of the rot, and the same care will preserve 
them from most other disorders to which they are 
liable ; damp grounds are always dangerous, and 
especially in wet seasons. When a sheep is infected 
with the rot, the white of the eyes looks dull, and they 
have a faint aspect ; the animal is feeble, and his skin 
foul ; the wool comes oif in handsful at the least touch, 
and the gums look pale, and the teeth foul ; he will 
also be dull and listless in motion, and heavy, as if 
his legs were not able to carry him. Many are gene- 
rally afiected at a time, and the first care must be to 
remove them from the sound ones, and put them in a 
close fold. They must have but little water, and 
their food must be hay and oats. Bleeding is destruc- 
tive in the rot. The fact that sheep fed in salt marshes 
never have the rot, suggested salt as a remedy. It is 
a good preventive, and a cure. Though the farmer 
cannot rely with absolute certainty upon it, yet, among 



386 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

other remedies, it is highly usefuL The following re- 
medies and treatment have often efiected cures : — 

Bruise an ounce of the grains of paradise, and four 
ounces of juniper-berries, dried; add to these four 
pounds of bay salt, and .half a pound of loaf-sugar ; 
grind them well together, and sprinkle some of this 
upon the hay and oats that are given the sheep. Let 
this be continued three days, and look, from time to 
time, to the eyes, and examine every other way to see 
whether they mend or grow worse. If there be signs 
of amendment, let the same course be continued : if 
not, the following must be used: — Steep four pounds 
of antimony in two gallons of ale, for a week; then 
give the sheep this every night and morning, a quar- 
ter of a pint at a time. Boil a pound of the roots of 
avens, and two pounds of the roots of masterwort, in 
two gallons of water, till there are not more than six 
quarts remaining; strain this off", and press it hard; 
then pour a pint of it into a pailful of water that is to 
be given to the sheep for their drink. By these 
means, carefully managed, and under a good regula- 
tion in cleanness, dryness, and warmth, the rot will 
often be cured. This is all that can be promised ; for 
there are times when the disease is so rooted, and 
when the temperature of the air so favors it, that 
nothing will get the better of it. If the sheep have 
a distaste to the food, because of the salt and 
other ingredients mixed among it, they must be 
omitted for two or three feedings, and then given in 
less quantity. 

Stretches. — This is the name given to a disease 
which has been noticed among sheep. The name is 
exactly indicative of its effect on the animal; pro- 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 387 

ducing dislike to food, uneasiness, and a continual 
inclination to extend the fore and hind feet as far as 
possible, in the same manner the operation of stretch- 
ing is performed by a horse or dog. The true remedy 
or rather preventive, would undoubtedly be a supply 
of green food ; but we have never found anything 
more necessary, than a plentiful supply of salt, to 
remove the disease at once. In addition to this, we 
would recommend a spoonful of castor-oil to be given 
the sheep, repeating the dose, at suitable intervals, 
till the disease is removed. 



TAR FOR SHEEP. 

A gentleman who has a large flock of sheep says, 
that during the season of grazing he gives his sheep 
tar, at the rate of a gill a day to every twenty sheep. 
He puts the_tar in troughs, sprinkles a little fine salt 
over it, and the sheep consume it with eagerness. 
This preserves them from worms in the head, pro- 
motes their health in general, and is thought to be a 



good specific against the rot. 



DISEASE OF HOGS. 

Hogs are subject to various diseases ; but, accord- 
ing to Laurence, they are not easily doctored. They 
are subject to pox or measles, blood-striking, staggers, 
quinsy, indigestion, catarrh, peripneumonia, and in- 
flammation of the lungs, called heavings. When 
not very sick, pigs will eat, and they will take medi- 
cine in their wash. When they will not, there is no 
help for them. As aperients, cleansers, and alteratives, 
sulphur, antimony, and madder, are our grand specifics, 



388 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

and are truly useful ; as cordials and tonics, treacle 
and strong beer, in warm wash, and good peas and 
pollard ; in the measles, sulphur, &c. ; and if the 
patient require it, give cordials now and then in stag- 
gers, bleeding, fresh air, and perhaps niter ; in catarrh 
a warm bed and warm cordial wash, and the same in 
quinsy or inflammation of the glands of the throat. 
K external suppuration appear likely, discharge the 
matter when ripe, and dress with tar and brandy, or 
balsam. The heavings, or unsoundness of the lungs 
in pigs, like the unsoundness of the liver in lambs, is 
sometimes found to be hereditary. There is no 
remedy. The disease in pigs is often in consequence 
of colds from wet lodgings, or hasty feeding in a 
poor state. In a certain stage it is highly inflamma- 
tory, and without remedy. Unction with train-oil, 
and the internal use of it, have been sometimes thought 
beneficial. 



CURE FOR HOG CHOLERA. 

The following remedy is confidently recommended, 
it having been used lately with decided success : — 

One or two pounds of fresh tar; one pound of 
copperas, pulverized; half a pound of saltpeter, 
pulverized ; six or eight pounds of ashes. Mix the 
above thoroughly, put in a trough, and add water. 
Should the hogs refuse to drink the mixture, add 
shelled corn, when they will eat it. The above 
quantity will be a dose for twenty-five or thirty head 
of hogs. Let the pigs have theirs in a trough to 
themselves. We advise fire-coals being kept on the 
ground where the hogs are fed. 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS, 389 



TO CURE SWELLING OF THE THROAT IN HOGS. 

Take of molasses one half-pint, and a tablespoon- 
ful of hog's lard, melted ; to this add one tablespoon- 
ful flour of sulphur ; mix well, and drench the hog 
with it, and nine times out of ten it will be found to 
have the desired efl'ect. 

TO DESTROY VERMIN IN HOGS. 

Mix a little tar with grease of any kind sufficient 
to make the tar thin ; then, when fed sufficiently, pour 
it over the hogs, so as to have them well smeared with 
the tar. This may be repeated often in the sunmier 
and fall, or in good weather. You may give each 
hog a small tablespoonful of sulphur in their food, or 
in damp weather have them well sprinkled with strong 
wood-ashes ; either of these remedies will prevent or 
destroy the vermin. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Cut a few pods of red pepper in small pieces, and 
fry them in lard until they change their color ; then 
mix it with tar and a small quantity of spirits of tur- 
pentine, and rub or smear it on the affected parts, 
and along the back and sides. It will effectually 
drive away the lice. 

TO DESTROY WORMS IN THE KIDNEY OF HOGS. 

Feed the hog with corn, boiled soft in strong ley, 
with the addition of a handful of charcoal. This feed 
is to be continued four or five days, by which time 
the hog will probably become as well as ever, and so 
continue thereafter. 
33* 



390 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

CURE FOR THE MANGE IN HOGS. 

Give them sulphur in their food, and wash them in 
soap-suds. 

CURE FOR THE MANGE AND QUINSY IN HOGS. 

The remedy for the mange is simply this: — Take 
the common poke-root, stalks and leaves, and boil a 
quantity of it until the liquid becomes quite strong; 
then season with salt, meal, pot-liquor, &c., until it is 
made palatable to the hog, and he will partake of it 
and the salad most bountifully. It has been observed, 
too, that if the hog has ticks on him, they all drop 
off after the first or second feed ; but whether from 
the liquor getting on him, whilst feeding, or taking it 
inwardly, is not known. For the quinsy, give the hog 
tea, made strong, of pennyroyal, and seasoned as the 
poke-juice, with salt, meal, and pot-liquor. It may 
be repeated for two or three days till relief is given. 
Poke-root is a valuable medicine for many diseases 
incident to domestic animals. We believe a strong 
tea of poke-root, given frequently, will cure the ma- 
lignant disease denominated Farcy. It acts upon the 
skin and the absorbents, and "cleanses the blood." 

CURE OF MANGE IN DOGS. 

Dipping the animal in a tan-vat several times a day 
for a week or so, has been known to make a complete 
cure. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Mix pounded sulphur with common lard, and let 
the dog eat as much as he pleases ; then anoint him 
well down the middle of his back, and behind his 



VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 391 

ears, with the balance. If repeated two or three 
times, this will certainly effect a cure. 



BRIEF HINTS FOR WINTER. 

Cattle, and all domestic animals, should commence 
the winter in good condition. Do not undertake to 
winter more cattle than you have means of providing 
for. Let every farmer aim to have the next spring, 
instead of thin, bony, slab-sided, shaggy cattle, tine, 
smooth, round, and healthy ones : and to this end, 
1st. Let the cattle be well fed. 2d. Let them be fed 
regularly. 3d. Let them be properly sheltered from 
the pelting storm. Proper food, and regularity in 
feeding, will save flesh on the animal's back, and 
shelter will save the fodder. All domestic animals, 
in considerable numbers, should be divided into par- 
cels and separated from each other, in order that the 
weaker may not sufler from the domination of the 
stronger, nor the diseased from the vigorous. 

Farmers who have raised root-crops (and all good 
farmers have doubtless done so), should cut them up, 
and mix them with drier food, as meal, chopped hay, 
straw, or corn-stalks, and feed them to cattle or 
sheep. 

Cow-houses and cattle-stables should be kept very 
clean, and well littered. To allow animals to lie down 
in the tilth, which is sometimes sutfered to collect in 
the stables, is exceedingly injurious and unwise. 

By using beds of straw, or litter, the consequent 
quantity of manure will much more than repay the 
supposed waste of straw. 

All stables should be properly ventilated. 



392 VETERINARY RECEIPTS. 

Mixing food is generally better than feeding cattle 
on one substance alone. Cattle will generally eat 
straw with as much readiness as hay, if it is salted 
copiously, which may be done b}^ sprinkling brine 
over it. A great saving is made by cutting small 
not only straw and corn-stalks, but hay also. 

Sheep, as w^ell as all other domestic animals, should 
have a constant supply of good water during the win- 
ter. They should also be properly sheltered from the 
inclement weather. In making them comfortable 
is to be found the great secret of keeping them in 
good condition. The farmer who disregards the com- 
fort of domestic animals must not think it strange 
that his do not thrive and look as well as those of his 
neighbor, who may not allow them to sufl'er in this 
respect. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



METHOD OF REARING TURKEYS. 

The following curious method of rearing turkeys 
to advantage, is taken from a Swedish author : — 

"Many of our housewives," he says, "have long 
despaired of success in rearing turkeys, and complain 
that the profit rarel}' indenmifies them for their trou- 
ble and loss of time, whereas little more is to be done 
than to plunge the chick into a vessel of cold water 
the very hour, if possible, but at least the very day 
that it is hatched, forcing it to swallow at least one 
whole peppercorn ; after which let it be returned to 
its mother. From that time it will become hardy, 
and fear the cold no more than a hen's chicken. But 
it must be remembered that this useful species of 
fowls are also subject to one particular disorder when 
they are young, which often carries them oft" in a few 
days. When they begin to droop, examine carefully 
the feathers on the rump, and you will find two or 
three whose quill parts are filled with blood : upon 
drawing them the chick recovers, and after that re- 
quires no other care than what is commonly bestowed 
upon poultry that range the court-yard." The truth- 
fulness of these assertions is well known in Sweden, 
where the plan has been highly successful for many 
years. 

(393) 



394 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

The principal remedy necessary, in the first in- 
stance, appears to he a stimulant, to counteract the 
extreme feebleness which attends young turkeys, more 
than other fowls, in the earliest stages of their exist- 
ence ; hence a grain of pepper, &c., is usually admin- 
istered as soon as hatched. But instinct, their infallible 
guide, it appears, has more successfully directed them 
to the wild onion, which is proved to be a powerful 
restorative to their natures, and, in fact, a grand 
panacea to the race ; when they are permitted to 
ramble, you will see them busily cropping the green 
blades of the onion with much apparent enjoyment. 
Small hominy made wet, with the addition ol a por- 
tion of the wild onion chopped fine, or any other 
onion-tops that can be procured, affords the best and 
most wholesome food they can have, for several weeks 
at least, or so long as they are confined to small en- 
closures. Turkeys are very fond of green food of 
any kind, particularly lettuce and cabbage, the leaves 
of which may be chopped fine, and given them twice 
a day, morning and evening, with good efifect. Con- 
tinue also to feed them on hominy, so long as they 
may require your care, and the housewife, without 
uncommon accidents, will have no reason to complain 
of the loss of her turkeys. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

When chickens are hatched out, let the hen and 
chickens be confined in a garden, or any other place 
where the young ones can sun themselves. Let them 
be fed with hominy for two or three days ; then carry 
them to a rail pen, in a rye, oats, or buckwheat patch ; 



MISCELLANEOUS llECEIPTS. 395 

confine tlie hen, and feed at least three times a day 
with homing', or small grain. The young ones will 
soon run about, catching insects, and will come to the 
hen's call. The hen should be thus confined until 
the turkeys are about iialf-grown ; they will range 
about, but never out of the sound of the mother's 
call. The young ones are not so liable to injury from 
hawks or vermin, as when they follow the hen, in her 
rambles over the plantation ; nor are they compelled, 
in keeping up with the hen, to fatigue themselves 
more than is good for health. 

Great care must be taken to keep the pen dry; the 
foundation should be made higher, with dry sand, 
so as to admit of no standing water, and the top 
should be well covered to keep out the rain. 

EGGS AND POULTRY. 

Nearly every family can, with very little trouble, 
have eggs in plenty during the whole year, by putting 
in practice the following instructions : — 

In the month of November, put apart eleven hens 
and a rooster, giving them a small chamber in the 
wood-house, defended from storms, and with an open- 
ing to the south. Place their food, water, and lime, 
on shelves convenient for them, with warm nests, and 
plenty of chalk nest-eggs. These hens will lay, 
through the winter, on an average, six eggs daily. 
Whenever any of them are disposed to sit, that is, as 
soon as she begins to cluck, separate her from the 
others by a grated partition, and darken her apart- 
ment. These cluckers should be well attended and 
fed, and allowed to see, and partly associate, through 
the grates, with the other fowls ; and as soon as the 
prisoner begins to sing, she should be liberated, and 



896 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 

will very soon lay eggs. Egg-shells contain lime ; 
therefore, when the earth is bound with frost, or 
covered with snow, if lime is not provided for chick- 
ens, they will not lay, or, if they do, the eggs must 
of necessity be without shells. Rubbish lime, from 
old chimneys and buildings, is proper, and only 
needs to be broken for them. They will often at- 
tempt to swallow pieces of lime-plaster as large as 
walnuts. 

A dozen fowls shut up, away from the means of 
obtaining food, will require something more than a 
quart of Indian-corn a da}' ; but, more or less, let 
them always have enough by them ; and after they 
have become habituated to find enough at all times, 
a plenty in their little manger, they take but a few 
kernels at a time, except just before retiring to roost, 
when they will take nearly a spoonful into their 
crops; but if their provision comes to them scanted, 
or irregularly, they will take up a whole cropful at a 
time, and will stop laying. 

A single dozen fowls, properly attended, will fur- 
nish a family with more than two thousand eggs in a 
year, and one hundred full-grown chickens for fall 
and winter stores. The expense of feeding the dozen 
fowls will not amount to eighteen bushels of Indian- 
corn. They may be kept in cities as well as in the 
country, and will do as well shut up the year round 
as to run at large ; and a grated room, well lighted, 
ten feet by five, partitioned from any stable, or other 
out-house, is sufficient for the dozen fowls, with their 
roosting-places, nests, and feeding-troughs. 

At the proper season, viz., in the spring of the 
year, five or six hens will hatch at the same time, and 
fifty or sixty chickens should be given to one hen. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 397 

Two bens will take care of one hundred chickens 
well enough, until they begin to climb their little 
stick roosts. They should then be separated from 
the hens entirely. They will wander less, and do 
better away from the fowls. 

TO FATTEN FOWLS OR CHICKENS IN FOUR OR FIVE 
DAYS. 

Set rice over the fire, with skimmed milk, only as 
much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice 
is quite swelled out, and feed the fowls three times a 
day with it. When you boil fresh rice, let the pans 
be set in w^ater, that no sourness may be conveyed to 
the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. 
Give them clean water to drink. By this method 
the flesh will have a clear whiteness, which no other 
food gives ; and when it is considered how far a 
pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved 
by this mode, it will be found to be cheap. 

TO CURE THE GAPES IN CHICKENS. 

On the subject of this disease of chickens, a writer 
remarks : — 

" On the dissection of chickens dying of this dis- 
ease, it will be foand that the windpipe contains nu- 
merous small worms, about half an inch in length, 
and the size of a small cambric needle. On the first 
glance, they would likely be mistaken for blood-ves- 
sels. These worms may be dislodged, and the disease 
cured, by the introduction of tobacco-smoke into the 
mouth, until the chicken becomes insensible. In this 
state it will remain for one or two minutes. The 
operation may be repeated, without endangering life. 
34 



398 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

The first application will usually produce the death 
or expulsion of the worms, and the removal of the 
aiiection ; the second, always." 

TO PREVENT DOGS FROM SUCKING EGGS. 

Take of tartar emetic from four to eight grains, ac- 
cording to the age and strength of your dog ; break 
the end of an egg, put in the tartar, and mix it. If 
your dog is disposed to suck eggs, he will readily eat 
it. Confine him from cold water. The next day re- 
jDcat the dose, which continue to do on each suc- 
ceeding day, until he refuses it, which will probably 
be the third or fourth day. After this, they will never 
be guilty of the like ofl'ence. 

CAPONS. 



m 



I 



Take the rooster (which should be about half- 
grown, or nearly so), lay him on the left side with the 
legs and wings extended ; let your assistant hold him 
in that position ; then, after picking away some of the 
feathers from the right side, with a sharp penknife, || 
make an incision parallel with the ribs, just below 
them, about an inch and a half in length, taking care 
not to injure the intestines ; then insert the thumb 
and fore-finger, and you will feel the testicles attached 
to the back-bone, not more than an inch from the 
incision, which you can remove with the thumb and 
finger with care ; then sew up the incision in three or 
four stitches, and rub the wound with a little tar or 
grease. The fowls should be kept for a few days in 
a coop, and fed sparingly, after which they can be 
turned loose. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 399 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS, NO. I. 

Relative to the preservation of eggs by immersion 
in lime-water, Mr. Peschier has given most satisfac- 
tory evidence of the efficacy of the process. Eggs, 
which he had preserved for six years in this way, 
being boiled and tried, were found perfectly fresh and 
good; and a confectioner of Geneva has used a whole 
cask preserved by the same means. In a small way 
eggs may be thus preserved in jars, or other vessels. 
They are to be introduced when quite fresh, the jar 
filled, after the eggs are put in, with lime-water, a 
little powdered lime sprinkled in at last, and then the 
jar closely corked. To prepare the lime-water, twenty 
or thirty pints of water are to be mixed up with five 
or six pounds of slacked quicklime put into a covered 
vessel, allowed to clear by standing, and the lime- 
water immediately used. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS, NO. II. 

Eggs may, with proper care, be kept perfectly 
fresh, not only through the winter, but almost any 
length of time. The care necessary for this purpose 
is to render the shell impervious to the air; or to 
place them in such a situation that the yolk may not 
come directly in contact with the shell, but remain 
surrounded by the albumen or white, which is known, 
to withstand the efi'ects of the air much longer, with- 
out alteration, than the yolk. The eggs should be 
placed in a keg, on the small end; and every layer 
should be filled in with salt or sand, to keep them in 
that position. If they are wanted to be kept for any 
length of time, there should be a good coat on the 
top, and the keg headed up. It would be a great im- 
provement to immerse the eggs previous to their 
being packed, in a mixture of lard or tallow and bee*. 



400 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

wax, witli an addition of a small quantity of resm, to 
render the mixture more adhesive. Eggs thus pre- 
pared and packed, would continue good for a year or 
more. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS, NO. III. 

One bushel of quicklime, thirty-two ounces of salt, 
eight ounces of cream of tartar. Mix the whole to- 
gether, with as much water as will reduce the com- 
position to such a consistency that an egg, when put 
into it, will swim. Then pack the eggs into jars, or 
kegs, and pour on the liquid till they are covered. 

PRESERVING MILK. 

A foreign journal states, that some milk was lately 
exhibited iu Liverpool from on board a Swedish ves- 
sel, that was several months old, having made two 
voyages from Sweden to the West Indies and back 
again, and remained perfectly sweet and fresh. The 
manner of preparing it is as follows : — 

The bottles are made clean and sweet, and the milk 
is milked directly into them, without the intervention 
of a pail. As fast as they are filled, they are closely 
corked, and the corks wired down as in bottling cider. 
The bottles are placed, when filled, in a boiler, a layer 
of straw, and a layer of bottles, until the layer is full. 
Fill the boiler with cold water, kindle a fire, and let 
it heat gradually ; when it begins to boil, withdraw 
the fire, and let the bottles remain till cold. They 
must then be taken out, packed in hampers, with 
straw or sawdust, and stowed in the coolest part of 
the ship. The milk so exhibited was above eighteen 
months old, and was of excellent quality. It is evi- 
dent this discovery will be the most available at sea; 
but where bottles could be easily obtained, many 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



401 



families living in cities and villages who keep a cow, 
might, by preserving some in this way, furnish them- 
selves with a supply for the time a cow usually goes 
dry during the winter. In any event, the experiment 
could cost but little. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM, 

Beat up the whole of a fresh egg in a basin, and 
then pour boiling tea or water over it gradually, to 
prevent it curdling. In flavor and richness this pre- 
paration resembles cream. 



PLAN OF AN ICE-HOUSE AND DAIRY. 
12 feet. 



_ 
'S 


3p. 12 inches 






filled with dry ta 


a. 

O 


1 








ei 


u H 


C3 






CD 




1-3 


O 


9) 


ft" 


00 


o 
Pi 


Ice-Room, 10 ft. square in the clear, 


p 

o 


o 


and from 12 to 15 ft. high. 


C^ 


a 






J 


^^1 




B 


.S — o 


s. 


rs 


f,'^ "^ 




^ 


^^ '^ 


u- 




u o^ 


& 


5S 


c 
c 


!l.1 




o 


Partition of 


~| 


15 inches. 


oT 


1 




l-j 


P< 


Trough 21 inches wide, 7J deep. 


"73 

o 






d 


Dairy 5i feet wide, 10 feet long, 


a. 


a 
o 


and same height as the Ice-Room. 


1-5 
CD 


^ 








Steps. 


O 


o 
o 




















P 


-a 




















C5 

O 




). 




















P 


Space 12 inches, filled with dry tan. 



12 feet. 



34* 



402 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

The above is the plan of an ice-house and dairy. 
The whole length eighteen feet, width twelve feet; 
the pit sunk six feet in the ground, and to the square 
above the common surface nine or ten feet. The 
house to be framed and finished in the common way, 
and weather-boarded. Another frame is made about 
two feet less ever}^ way, and put up inside of the 
frame just mentioned, the sills of which rest on the 
bottom of the pit, ceiled inside, with sleepers in the 
common way, and the space underneath and between 
the sleepers filled in with dry tan ; floored with two- 
inch plank jointed, and the edges grooved and joints 
broken, so as to convey the water v.^hich drips from 
the ice into the dairy and trough. The partition which 
separates the dairy from the ice-room is double, and 
ceiled on both sides the space, which is about twelve 
to fifteen inches, and is filled with charcoal or dry 
tan. The ice-room and dairy are intended to be sur- 
rounded by dry tan or pulverized charcoal, which, as 
put in, ought to be rammed. The doors are all dou- 
ble, I mean one inside and one outside, both opening 
the same way ; except the door of entrance into the 
dairy, the outside one opening to the outside, and the 
inside opening inside, as usual. The end door to re- 
ceive the ice is four feet and a half high, and two feet 
nine inches wide, and the space between the two 
doors, about a foot, after the ice-room is filled, is 
packed full of straw. The facings of the doors be- 
tween the dairy and ice- room are covered with thick 
woollen selvage, fastened on with small tacks, so as 
to prevent, as far as possible, the access of warm air. 
Into one of these doors there are driven several hooks, 
such as butchers use, on w^hich to hang fresh meat; 
and the tem^Derature in that open space being 40°, it 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 40B 

can be kept there sound and fresh as long as desired. 
The temperature of the dairy is 49° ; the dairy has 
several shelves, on which to place meats, butter, jars 
of preserves, &c. &c. ; the milk in pans is put in the 
trough which receives the drippings from the ice. 
The flight of steps must be narrow, and have a rail- 
ing as a safeguard. Embankments of clay are made 
all around the house, to rise perhaps two or three feet 
above the common surface, so as to carry oft" the water 
as it may fall. 

The above is better than a spring-house or dairy, 
and answers the purpose of both. In taking out the 
ice, enter the doors leading out of the dairy into the 
ice-room, beginning, of course, at the bottom of the 
ice instead of the top, as usual ; the ice-room holds 
about one thousand bushels. The charcoal, when 
used, ought to be pounded small, or if passed through 
a bark-mill would perhaps be better ; it ought to be 
fresh. If tan be used, it must be dry ; and either, 
when put in, ought to be rammed. The space be- 
tween the frames above the ground ought to be from 
two to four feet. Care must be taken in constructing 
the frame, especially the inside one, to give it suffi- 
cient height to allow the door of entrance into the 
dairy to be about six feet. 

The dairy is without a floor. The floor of the ice- 
room must be somewhat lower where it enters the 
dairy than at the other end, and the plank forming 
the floor of the ice-room must project into the dairy 
over the sleeper a few inches, so that the water run- 
ning from the floor may fall into the trough, which 
is made water-tight. No straw is used about the ice. 
The ice-room is floored above, and covered with char- 
coal and tan to the thickness of two to four feet. 



404 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



A PORTABLE ICE-HOUSE. 

Take an iron-bound butt or puncheon, and knock 
out the head, cutting a very small hole in the bottom, 
about the size of a wine-cork; place inside of it a 
wooden tub, shaped like a churn, resting it upon two 
pieces of wood, which are to raise it from touching 
the bottom. Fill the space round the inner tub with 
pounded charcoal, and fit to the tub a cover, with a 
convenient handle, having inside one or two small 
hooks, on which are to be hung the bottles during 
the operation ; place on the lid a bag of charcoal, 
about two feet square ; if the charcoal in this bag is 
pounded, it will answer better; and over all place 
another cover, which must cover the head of the outer 
cask. When the apparatus is thus prepared, let it be 
placed in a cold cellar, and buried in the earth about 
four-fifths of its length ; but though cold, the cellar 
must be dry ; wet ground will not answer, and a sandy 
soil is the best. Fill the inner tub, or nearly so, with 
pounded ice ; or if prepared in the winter, with snow 
well pressed down, and the apparatus will be com- 
plete. Whenever it is wished to make ice, take off" 
the upper cover, then the sack or bag of pounded 
charcoal, and suspend the vessel containing the water 
or liquid to be frozen to the hooks inside of the inner 
cover ; then close up the whole, as before, for half 
an hour, taking proper care to exclude the external 
air. 

PLAN OF A KENTUCKY BEE-HOUSE. 

The building to be twelve feet long, eight wide, 
and seven high from the floor to the plate or ceiling 
(the floor being eighteen inches from the ground), 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



406 



and is to consist of four posts, weather-boarded round, 
and covered in, to prevent the bees from getting in 
the house ; they being confined in six boxes, three on 
either side of the house, placed fifteen inches one 
above another. This drawing (fig. 24) represents one 
side of the house, viewed from the outside. 



Fiff. 24. 



Fii-'. 25. 



rn rn n 



n rn n 



r~i rn rn 



r\r\ r\r\/^r\ /-\r\ 


3 


/A/^ 




^r\rsr\ 





/:s.^::\ 


! 


r\r\ 


4 


f-^rsr\r\ 




r\r\ 


1 



LJ' 



Fig. 24. JSTos. 1, 1, are copper troughs running 
round the post, half-way between the floor and 
ground, which are kept filled with water to prevent 
ants or other insects from getting in the house. 'Nos. 
2, 3, and 4, are tubes eight inches wide, and one- 
quarter of an inch deep, to convey the bees through 
the wall into the long boxes, and entering them at 
the bottom, there being three to each long box. The 
drawing, fig. 25, represents one side of the house, 
viewed from the inside. Nos. 1, 2, and 3, are long 
boxes, eighteen inches wide, and twelve deep, extend- 
ing the whole length of the house, with eight holes, 
four inches square, in each box, upon which are set 
caps of two gallons, with two half-inch holes in each, 
one near the top, the other about the center of the 
cap, in which the smoke of a burning rag is blowni 
to drive the bees from the cap into the long box. A 
knife or wire should be drawn under the cap, to 
separate the comb from the box, when the cap of 



406 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

honey may be removed, and an empty one put in its 
place. Nos. 4 and 5, are tubes, three inches square, 
to convey the bees from one box to another, that one 
swarm ma}' do the whole ; or if one or more swarms 
be put in each box, that they may become as one, as 
they will not have more than one queen when put 
together, by which they are prevented from destroy- 
ing themselves by fighting. A house of this descrip- 
tion, when the long boxes are filled, will afl:brd, at a 
moderate calculation, ninety-six gallons of honey, in 
the comb, annually. 



ANOTHER PLAN. 

Several individuals have tried this arrangement 
with entire success. It consists of a house of brick 
or wood (of wood standing on blocks, or it might be 
made with good solid posts set in the ground), say 
of tlie size of a common smoke-house, with a door 
to admit of the entrance of a man. The inside is 
merely furnished with shelves like an ordinary pantry. 
The bees pass in and out through several apertures 
resembling spouts, arranged in rows on each side. 
These spouts project six inches, and the hole is per- 
haps two or three inches wide, by from one-eighth to 
one-half ai? inch in height. The benefits of this 
method are said to be these : — The bees never swarm, 
but continue filling up the house. The honey may 
be easily taken out when the bees retire to the bottom 
of the combs in cold weather, and it is said to be an 
infallible preventive of worms. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 407 

TAKING HIVES WITHOUT DESTROYING THE BEES. 
Having always thought that there was inhumanity 
in the old plan of destroying the bees in order to take 
the honey, we determined to try the more humane 
plan practised by the French of robbing them of their 
sweets without depriving them of life, and we have 
put the plan twice into operation the present season 
with entire success. The method, which is easy, is as 
follows: — In the dusk of the evening, when the bees 
are quietly lodged, place a tub near the hive ; then 
throw the hive over with its bottom upward into the 
tub ; cover the hive with a clean one, which must be 
previously prepared by washing its inside with salt and 
water, and rubbing it with hickory leaves, thyme, or 
some other aromatic leaves or herbs. Having care- 
fully adjusted the mouth of each hive to the other, so 
that no aperture remains between them, take a small 
stick and gently beat around the sides of the full hive 
for about fifteen minutes, in which time the bees will 
leave their cells in the lower hive, and ascend and 
adhere to the upper one. Then gently lift the new 
hive, with all its little tenants, and place it on the 
stand from which the other hive was taken. This 
should be done about midsummer, so as to allow the 
bees time to provide a new stock of honev tor winter's 
use. 

HUNTING BEES. 

The manner of hunting bees, as practised in the new 
settlements, may be familiar to many, but perhaps not 
to all. As advantage is taken of a peculiar instinct, 
it would, probably, be interesting to those unacquainted 
with it, to be informed of the process. A tin box is 



408 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

provided, capable of containins^ about a pint. Into 
this is put apiece of dry honey-comb ; a bottle of 
honey and water mixed, about half and half, is also 
provided. The honey is diluted, in order that it may 
be more readily poured into the dry comb, that the 
bees may not be so liable to get it upon their wings, 
and will be able to fill themselves more expeditiously. 
Apparatus for making a fire may also be necessary. 
With these the hunter proceeds to a newly-cleared 
field, at a distance from any hive of domestic bees ; 
and having poured a little of the composition into the 
comb, he proceeds to search among the wild flowers 
for a bee. If one can be found, he is caught in the box 
b}^ shutting the lid over him. As soon as he becomes 
still, the lid is carefully removed, when he will be 
found busily filling himself with honey. When he 
rises he must be watched in order to ascertain his 
course. After making one or two circuits about the 
box, he will fly ofl" in a straight course to his home. 
After an absence of a few minutes, say five or ten, he 
will return, bringing with him two or three of his 
companions. These will soon fill themselves, go 
home, and return again with a number more. Thus 
they will continue to increase in number till, in the 
course of half an hour, there will be one hundred or 
more in the box. By that time the line will be as- 
certained with precision. The lid is now shut over as 
many as possible, and the box is removed on the line 
to the edge of the woods, where it is again opened. 
The line will soon be found at the new station, as 
before, and thus the box is removed from station to 
station, until the whole tree is either discovered or 
passed. If the tree be passed, the line, of course, 
will be retrograde. A small pocket spyglass is a con- 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 409 

venient thing for searching the tops of trees, as it 
requires a good eye to see a bee at that distance. If 
a bee cannot be found to commence operations with, 
a little honey is burned on a stone ; and if a wander- 
ing bee happens to be near, he will be attracted by 
the smell. The proper time for hunting bees is on a 
fair warm day in the month of September or October. 
During the summer months, when food for bees is to 
be found everywhere, they will not traverse. If a 
bee tree is in the neighborhood of a sugar camp, bees 
will be found about the tree in the time of making 
sugar. 

FISH PONDS. 

Perhaps it is not generally known that many kinds 
of fish at present found in salt water may be taken 
thence to fresh water, and that they will not dete- 
riorate in flavor. They may thus be transplanted 
into our fresh water ponds, where they will speedily 
multiply, and become, not only gratifying to the 
palate, but actually a source of profit. Experiments 
have been made in Europe, and in this country, and 
the fact is there rendered beyond dispute, that floun- 
ders, bass, cod, mackerel, and eels (and to this list 
may be added crabs, oysters, mussels, shrimps), all 
live and do well in fresh water. Many of them, when 
thus transferred, improve in size and delicacy. 

PRESERVATION OF APPLES. 

Apples, after remaining as long on the trees as 
safety from the frost will permit, should be picked 
carefully by hand, put into close casks, and kept dry 
and cool as possible. If suffered to lie on the floor 
for weeks, they will wither and lose their flavor, with- 
35 



410 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

out acquiring any additional durability. The best 
mode of preparing apples for spring use is the putting 
of them in dry sand as soon as picked. For this pur- 
pose, dry the sand in the heat of summer; and, late 
in October, put down the apples in layers singly, with 
a covering of sand upon each layer. The singular 
advantages of this mode of treatment are these : first, 
the sand keeps the apples from the air, which is essen- 
tial to their preservation ; secondly, the sand checks 
the evaporation of the apples, thus preserving them 
in their full flavor, at the same time any moisture 
yielded by the apples (and some there will be) is ab- 
sorbed by the sand, so that the apples are kept dry, 
and all mustiness is prevented. The casks should be 
headed. 

Irish potatoes will keep in a good state put up in 
the same way, but should be dried a few days in the 
shade after digging, spreading them thinly on the 
ground or floor. 

TO PRESERVE GRAPES AND PLUMS IN A FRESH 
STATE. 

Grapes or plums may be preserved in a fresh state 
for use, for a length of time, by alternating them in 
layers with cotton battings, in a large stone jar, and 
placing them in a chamber secure from frost. 

TO KEEP PLUMS AND PEACHES FRESH THROUGH THE 
YEAR. 

Beat well up together equal quantities of honey and 
spring water; put it into an earthen vessel; put in 
the fruits, all freshly gathered, and cover them quite 
close. When any of the fruit is taken out, wash it 
in cold water, and it is fit for immediate use. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 411 

TO PRESERVE PUMPKINS IN A FRESH STATE. 

Pull them after they have their growth, and a little 
before the frost comes on, and put them in a warm, 
dry room. By this method they have been kept in a 
dry state for tw^o years. 

TO PRESERVE GREEN CORN FOR BOILING. 

Pluck the corn when fit for eating ; strip down the 
husk so as to remove the silk, and then replace it. 
Pack it away in a barrel, and pour on strong pickle, 
such as is used for meat, with a weight to keep it 
down. "When boiled, it will be perfectly fresh and 
sweet as when taken from the stock. 

PRESERVATION OF CABBAGES. 

After they have their growth, and are gathered in 
the fall, cut o& their loose leaves and stalks, that 
nothing may remain but the sound part of the head, 
and put them up in a tight cask. By thus excluding 
them from the air, they may be kept for a long time. 

TO PRESERVE GREEN PEAS. 

Gather them while they are yet tender ; shell and 
dry them. If they can be dried in the shade without 
molding, so much the better. The following winter, 
after soaking them in warm water over-night, you 
will find them swollen to the same size, and being as 
green and tender as they were when gathered. Then 
boil them as usual, and you will have green peas in 
midwinter. 



412 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 



TO PRESERVE TOMATOES IN A FRESH STATE. 

Tomatoes may be kept fresh through the fall and 
winter, by packing them in jars, laying alternately a 
layer of dry sand a layer of tomatoes, until the vessel 
is full ; after which, cover them up tight to keep the 
air out, and place them in a dry cellar. 

TO DRY CHERRIES. 

To every iive pounds of cherries, stoned, weigh one 
of sugar double-refined ; put the fruit into a preserv- 
ing-kettle, with very little water ; make both scalding 
hot ; take the fruit, and immediately dry them ; put 
them into a kettle again, stirring the sugar between 
each layer of cherries. Let it stand to melt ; tVien set 
the kettle on the fire, and make it scalding hot as be- 
fore ; take it off, and repeat this thrice with the 
sugar ; drain them from the syrup, and lay them sin- 
gly to dry on dishes in the sun, or on the stove. 
When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of 
cold water, and draw it instantly out again, and pour 
them on a fine, soft cloth ; dry them, and set them 
once more in the hot sun, or on a stove ; keep them 
in a box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. 
This way is the best to give plumpness to the fruit, 
as well as color and flavor. 

DRIED APPLES AND PEARS. 

In France, apples and pears are prepared in the 
following manner : — 

The fruit, with the stems left on, to prevent any 
loss of juice, is put into boiling water, in which it 
is left until it becomes soft. It is then taken out 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 413 

and carefully peeled, and placed on a strainer, under 
which is a dish to catch the juice; when peeled, it is 
put into an oven heated to the ordinary temperature 
for bread, and left there twenty-four hours. "When 
taked out, and cold, the fruit is pressed flat, and after 
being plunged into its own juice, which has been set 
apart for that purpose, it is packed in boxes and 
exported. For family use, it might be packed away 
in stone jars. 

DRIED PEACHES. 

Just before fully ripe, peel peaches, take out the 
nuts, put them in boiling water till they are a little 
soft ; take them out, and throw them into a pailful of 
cold water; when cold, drain and weigh them. To 
every pound of peaches put half a pound of powdered 
loaf-sugar. Lay the peaches in a kettle, and sprinkle 
the sugar until it is all in. Let it remain until the 
syrup runs sufficiently to allow putting it on over a 
very slow fire. Let them boil slowly till the peaches 
look clear; then put them in a large bowl, and let 
them remain all night. The next morning place them 
snugly in dishes, and put them into the sun to dry. 
Turn them over every day until they are sufficiently 
dry to be packed in boxes or jars. 

VINEGAR. 

Put a gallon of good vinegar in a tight cask, and 
place it in a cellar, occasionally shaking it around, 
for a day or two. Then commence filling up the 
cask gradually with whiskey and water, in the pro- 
portion of one gallon of the former to eight of the 
latter. It is best not to fill up too fast at first, but 
85* 



414 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

wait a week or two before adding again. By this 
process, au abundant supply of the purest vinegar 
may always be kept on hand. 

STARCH. 

In making starch from wheat, the grain is steeped 
in cold water until it becomes soft, and yields a 
milky juice by pressure ; it is then put into sacks of 
linen, and pressed in a vat, filled with cold water, as 
long as any milky juice exudes. After standing some 
time, the fluid gradually becomes clear, and a white 
powder, which is starch, remains at the bottom. 

ATTAR OF ROSES. 

The following is au account of the manner in which 
this costly perfume is prepared in the East: — 

Steep a large quantity of the petals of roses, freed 
from every extraneous matter, in pure water, in an 
earthen or wooden vessel, which is exposed daily to 
the sun, and housed at night, till a scum rises to the 
surface. This is the attar, which is carefully absorbed 
by a very small piece of cotton tied to the end of a 
stick. The oil collected, squeeze out of the cotton 
into a vial ; stop it for use. The collection of it 
should be continued whilst any scum is produced. 

SODA FOR WASHING. 

To five gallons of water add a pint and a half of 
soap, and two ounces subcarbonate of soda; put the 
clothes (after soaking over-night) into the mixture 
when at boiling heat, rubbing the parts most soiled 
with soap. Boil them one hour, drain, rub, and rinse 
them in warm water: after being put into indigo 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 415 

water, they are fit for drying. Half the soap, and 
more than half the labor, is saved by washing in this 
manner. 

TO MAKE SOFT SOAP. 

Take five bushels of ashes, damp them thoroughly 
on the ground, and let them stand from five hours to 
two days, as may be convenient. Then make up the 
heap in an oblong form, open the middle, and put in 
three pecks of perfectly fresh lime ; sprinkle about 
three or four quarts of water over it, and cover up. 
Use hot water in very cold weather, or in large expe- 
riments cold water will answer in any weather. In 
half an hour the lime will heat and burst open the 
heap of ashes, when the whole must be well and 
quickly mixed, and put into the ley-tub to the depth 
of one foot, and beaten moderately ; another layer 
of ashes, the same depth as the first, is then to be 
added and beaten as before, and so on until the tub 
is filled within six inches of the top ; water is then to 
be poured in steadily until the ashes are nearly or 
entirely spent. The ley must be of a strength scarcely 
sufiicient to float a newly-laid egg : four gallons of 
this ley are to be put into a large kettle, and thirty 
or forty pounds of fat or grease added, and well stirred 
over a gentle heat. When it is perceived that the 
sharp taste of the mixture is lost, more ley is to be 
added occasionally, until the soap becomes transpa- 
rent and very thick, and toward the last of the opera- 
tion, the liquid must be made to boil briskly. When 
the soap is made, let it stand for a day, and if it does 
not grow thin in that time, no apprehensions need be 
excited in that respect. The kettle should be covered, 



416 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

and should hold more liquid than it is intended to 
boil, to give room for a brisk ebullition toward the 
close. 

TO MAKE HARD SOAP, 

Mild ley is to be used. "When the soft soap is 
finished, and the mixture still tolerably hot, add sea 
salt (or alum salt), until the ley drops clear from the 
soap. If it closes, add more salt, and at the same 
time slacken the fire ; then boil until the froth be- 
comes as light as a feather. Draw the fire, and pour 
salt and water into the mixture to cool it, observing 
to make a rapid stream, and not to let any drops fall 
in turning the bucket. When the soap is too strong 
of the alkali, it will not grain : in that case, add clean 
fat by degrees until it granulates, stirring it all the 
time over a gentle heat: when it boils, no more fat 
need be added. It is to be observed that if the ashes 
have been too tightly pressed in the ley-tub, the ley 
will not filtrate ; and if they have not been sufficiently 
pressed, the water will run foul. In the first case, the 
ashes may be loosened with a long iron skewer; in 
the latter, they must remain some hours to settle, and 
also be pressed. 

TO MAKE COLD SOAP. 

The leach-tub, or hogshead, must be covered at the 
bottom with straw and sticks ; then put in a bushel 
of ashes, then two or three quarts of unslacked lime, 
upon which you must throw two quarts of boiling 
water to excite fermentation and slack ; put in an- 
other bushel of ashes, and as much more lime and 
water, and continue to do so until your vessel is full ; 
put in hot water until you can draw off the ley, after 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 417 

which the heat of the water is not of much conse- 
quence. You must have at least two-thirds of a 
bushel of lime to a hogshead, if you wish your soap 
to be made quickly : one hogshead of ashes will make 
two barrels of soap. When you draw off your ley, 
you must keep the first two pailsful by themselves, 
and the next two in another vessel, and the third two 
in another vessel still ; then weigh twenty-nine pounds 
of clear strained grease, or of scraps without straining, 
thirty pounds ; put into a large kettle with three 
poands of resin ; then pour over it one pailful of ley 
from the first vessel, and one from the second vessel ; 
put it over the fire, and let it boil twenty minutes : be 
careful to add no ley over the fire, but swing off the 
crane if it is in danger of boiling over; put it into 
your barrel, and put in one pailful of ley from the 
third vessel, and give it a good stir : then weigh your 
grease for another barrel, and take the ley remaining 
in the vessels in the same manner as for the first 
barrel ; then draw oS your weak ley, and fill up the 
vessels as fast as possible, remembering to put half in 
each barrel, that they may be equally strong : if the 
leach run through fast, you may have the barrels full 
in an hour, and so hard that you can hardly stir them. 
You must stir it after you put in the ley, till the bar- 
rel is full. Fourteen quarts of melted grease is the 
quantity for a barreL 

A SIMPLE METHOD OF MAKING SOAP. 

To thirty-two gallons of ley, of strength just sufii- 
cient to bear an egg, add sixteen pounds of clean, 
melted grease, which, by being placed in the hot sun, 
and occasionally stirred, will, in a few^ days, produce 
a soap of the first quality. 



418 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

MAKING DIPPED CANDLES. 

The tallow, when melted, should be ladled into a 
wooden vessel of convenient width and depth, which 
has been previously heated by tilling it with boiling 
water for an hour or more. Fill the vessel within an 
inch of the top with melted tallow, and keep it that 
height by adding hot tallow or hot water. By this 
means the candles will be kept of a full size at the 
top, and not taper off to a point, as is often seen with 
the country candles. The tallow, when used for dip- 
ping candles, should not be too hot. A temperature 
that will allow the finger to be dipped in without 
burning, is sutficiently hot, and at this temperature 
the tallow will take on the wicks very fast. The 
wicks should be lowered into the melted tallow very 
gradually, and should be lifted out of the tallow so 
slowly that when the buttons of the candles are clear 
from the surface of the melted tallow, no tallow will 
run off them. When the candles are raised quickly 
out of the melted tallow, the tallow will run off the 
candles in a stream; whereas if the candles are raised 
out slowly, not a particle of tallow will fall from the 
candles. A few trials will satisfy any person in this 
matter. If the tallow is boiling hot, the wick will 
not take the tallow to any considerable extent. When 
candles are raised out of the tallow rapidly, the can- 
dles will be large at the bottom, and the tallow will 
extend below the wick, so that when burnt in the 
candlestick, a piece of the candle will have no wick 
in it; and therefore, for burning, will be useless. 
Where people have no suitable wooden vessel, an 
iron vessel will answer for a dipping vessel. When 
tallow has been thoroughly melted over the fire, 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 419 

should it be dirty or impure, throw into it, while hot, 
a small quantity of finely-powdered alum, and in a 
short time a scum will he seen rising to the surface, 
in appearance like dirty froth. Skim this off as it 
rises. This scum will rise for half an hour or more. 
Prepare your wicks about half the usual size, and 
wet them thoroughly with spirits of turpentine, put 
them in the sun until dry, and then mold or dip 
your candles. Candles thus made, last longer, and 
give a much clearer light. In fact they are nearly or 
quite equal to sperm, in clearness of light. 

A NEW WAY TO MAKE CANDLES. 

We have been shown a candle, about the size of a 
broom straw, which makes a very brilliant light, and 
is as durable as the tallow candle. As this is the age 
for economy in everything, it may not be amiss for 
us to tell our readers how to make them. Take one 
pound of beeswax, and a fourth of a pound of soft 
turpentine from the tree, melt them together; strain 
them ; take your wick of the desired length, and 
stretch it as you would in making a ploAV line ; then 
take the composition in a thin waiter, and hold the 
wick down in it as 3'ou apply it from end to end ; this 
done three times will complete the operation. The 
above proportion of the ingredients is sufficient for a 
wick forty yards long. 

TO DYE COTTON YARN A DEEP BLUE. 

Take one pound of logwood, chipped fine, or 
pounded ; boil it in a sufficient quantity of water, 
until all the substance is out of it ; then take about 
half a gallon of the liquor, and dissolve in it half an 
ounce of alum, and one ounce of verdigris; boil 



420 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

your yarn in the logwood-water one hour, stirring 
and keeping it loose. Take out your yarn, mix the 
half-gallon that contains the verdigris and alum ; 
tlien put your yarn into the mixture, and boil it four 
hours, stirring it and keeping it loose all the time, 
and taking it out once every hour to give it air; after 
which, dry it, then boil it in soap and water, and it 
is done. The above will dye six pounds of yarn an 
elegant deep blue ; after which put in as much yarn 
into the same Hquor, and boil it three hours, stirring 
it as before, and you will have a good pale blue ; or 
boil hickory bark in your liquor, and you will have 
an elegant green. 

TO COLOR GREEN. 

Take half a pound of oil of vitrol, one ounce of 
indigo, pulverized ; put them in a bottle, shake it 
repeatedly three or four days ; then put it in a hickory 
bark dye, with two pounds of alum. This mixture 
will cover twelve pounds of yarn : it is to be simmered 
over the fire several hours, frequently taking it out to 
air on a pole, over the kettle : you can dye it in iron, 
copper, or brass. When the yarn is dry, wash it in 
cold water ; the hickory dye is to be taken off the fire, 
Avhen the mixture is put in out of the bottle, or it will 
run over; for the hickory dye must be boiling hot 
when it is put in. 

TO COLOR RED. 

To three pounds of yarn, take one pound of alum, 
and one pound of madder ; dissolve the alum in a 
suflnicient quantity of water to cover the yarn ; scald 
it well in that water ; then rinse it well in pure water; 
mix wheat bran and water to the consistence of thin 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 421 

gruel, a sufficient quantity to cover the yarn well ; 
mix the madder well in this preparation ; put in the 
yarn, and boil two or three hours, stirring and keep- 
ing it loose in the vessel. If you do not wish it deep, 
take it out in a very short time ; but if you wish a 
deep color, let it remain several hours. Rinse it in 
cold water, after letting it air. The bran must be 
boiled the night before. 



TO DYE RED, WITH REDWOOD. 

One pound of redwood (chipped fine), two ounces 
of alum, powdered ; the redwood must stand twenty- 
four hours in river or spring water; then boil it well, 
and after straining, mix your alum and aquafortis, 
and boil it well for several hours. Mix one ounce 
aquafortis, one ounce block tin, in a tumbler, and set 
it in the sun about one hour. The abovie will color 
two pounds of yarn. After being dried, wash out 
with soft soap. 

TO DYE CRIMSON. 

To two gallons of the juice of pokeberries, when 
they are quite ripe, add half a gallon of strong cider- 
vinegar, to dye one pound of wool, which must be 
first washed very clean with hard soap ; the wool, 
when wrung dry, is to be put into the vinegar and 
pokeberry juice, and simmered in a copper vessel for 
one hour ; then take it out, let it drip a while, and 
spread it in the sun. The vessel must be free from 
grease of any kind. 
36 



422 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



TO DYE PINK. 

Two ounces cochineal, two pounds of cream tartar, 
one pound of alum, the whole put in a kettle of soft 
water ; then put in six pounds of clean yarn, and boil 
it w^ell ; it is not to be washed after being dried. 

TO COLOR YELLOW. 

Take three-fourths of hickory bark, with the out- 
side shaved off, and one-fourth of black-oak bark, 
done in the same manner; boil them well together 
in a bell-metal kettle, until the color is deep ; then 
add alum sufficient to make it foam when stirred up; 
put your yarn in, and let it simmer a little while ; 
then take it out and air it, repeating the process two 
or three times, and having a pole over the kettle to 
hang it on, so that it may drain in the kettle ; when 
dry, rinse it in cold water. 

COLORING FLANNEL. 

Take black alder bark, boil it well, then skim or 
strain it well ; wet the cloth in a pretty strong ley, 
and dip it into the alder liquor: let it remain till cool 
enough to wring, and you will have an indelible 
orange color. The better the cloth, the better the 
color. 

NANKEEN COLOR. 

A pailful of ley, with a piece of copperas half as 
big as a hen's egg boiled in it, will dye a fine nan- 
keen color, which will never wash out. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 423 

METHOD OF CLEANSING SILK, WOOLLEN, AND COTTON 
GOODS, WITHOUT DAMAGE TO THE TEXTURE OR COLOR. 

Take raw potatoes in the state they are taken out 
of the earth, wash them well ; then rub them on a 
grater, over a vessel of clean water, to a fine pulp ; pass 
the liquid matter through a coarse sieve into another 
tub of clean water. Let the mixture stand, till the 
fine white particles of the potatoes are precipitated ; 
then pour oS the mucilaginous liquor, and preserve 
it for use. The article to be cleansed should then be 
laid upon a linen cloth on a table, and having pro- 
vided a clean sponge, dip it in the potato liquor, 
^pply this sponge, thus wet, upon the article to be 
cleansed, and rub it well upon it with repeated por- 
tions of the potato liquor, till the dirt is perfectly 
separated ; then wash the article in clear water seve- 
ral times, to remove the loose dirt. It may afterwards 
be smoothed or dried. Two middle-sized potatoes 
willbe sufiicient for a pint of water. 

The coarse pulp which does not pass the sieve is of 
great use in cleansing worsted curtains, tapestry, car- 
pets, or other coarse goods. It is also useful in 
cleansing oil-paintings, or furniture that is soiled. 
Dirty painted wainscots may be cleaned by wetting a 
sponge in the liquor, then dipping it in a little fine, 
clean sand, and afterwards rubbing the wainscot 
with it. 

TO CLEAN SILK STOCKINGS. 

Wash your stockings first with white soap and 
lukewarm water, to take out the rough dirt ; then 
rinse them in fair water, and work them well in a 
fresh soap-water; make a third soap-water pretty 



424 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

strong and hot, in which put a little stone blue, 
wrapped in a flannel bag, till the water is blue 
enough; then wash your stockings well therein, and 
wring them. Let them be dried so that they may re- 
main a little moist, then fumigate them with brim- 
stone ; after which put upon a wooden leg two stock- 
ings, one upon the other, observing that the two 
fronts, or outsides, are face to face ; then polish them 
with a glass. 

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF SILK. 

Mix together in a vial two ounces of essence of 
lemon, and one more of oil of turpentine. Grease 
and other spots in silk are to be rubbed gently with 
a fine rag, dipped in the above composition. 

TO TAKE SPOTS OUT OF SILK OR LINEN. 

Of spirits of turpentine, twelve drops, and the same 
quantity of spirits of wine ; grind these with an ounce 
of pipe-makers' clay, and cover the spots therewith. 
You are to wet the coniposition when you do either 
silk, linen, or woollen with it. Let it remain till dry, 
then rub it off, and the stains or spots will disappear. 
True spirits of salt, diluted with water, will remove 
iron-molds from linen ; and sal-ammoniac, with lime, 
will take out the stains of wine. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Magnesia, if you have not French chalk, will effec- 
tually remove grease-spots from silk, on rubbing it 
in well ; and after standing a while, apply a piece of 
soft brown paper to the wrong side, on which press a 
warm iron gently ; and what grease is not absorbed 
by the paper, can he removed by washing the spot 
carefully with cold water. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 425 



TO WASH SILK. 

Lay the piece of silk upon a clean board ; soap a 
piece of flannel well, without making it very wet, and 
with this rub the silk carefully and evenly one way. 
After having thus cleansed one side of the silk, take 
a wet sponge and wash the soap ; proceed in the same 
manner to clean the other side, and then wipe the 
water off each with a clean, dry cloth ; after which, 
hang it as singly as possible upon a linen horse, and 
let it dry gradually. When very nearly dry, iron it. 



TO MAKE CALICO WASH WELL. 

Infuse three gills of salt in four quarts of boiling 
water; put the calico in while it is hot, and leave it 
till cold. In this way the colors are rendered perma- 
nent, and will not fade by subsequent washing. 



TO REMOVE IRON MOLDS FROM LINEN. 

Hold the iron mold on the cover of a tankard of 
boiling water, and rub on the spots a little juice of 
sorrel and salt ; when the cloth has thoroughly im- 
bibed the juice, wash it in ley. 



TO TAKE MILDEW OUT OF LINEN. 

Take soap, and rub it well in the linen ; then scrape 
some fine chalk, and rub that also in the linen. Lay 
it on the grass ; as it dries, wet it a little, and it will 
come out at twice doing. 
86* 



426 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



TO TAKE INK OR WINE OUT OF LINEN OR WOOLLEN. 

Take the juice of lemons, or sorrel, and wet the 
spot with it several times, letting it dry each time ; 
then wash it with soap and vinegar, and the spot will 
go out. 

TO REMOVE INK SPOTS FROM LINEN, 

Lemon-juice will eifectually remove ink from linea 
or muslin, if applied before the article has been 
w^ashed. But as persons in the country may not be 
able at all times to get a lemon, I w^ould advise them 
to buy a small bottle of vitriol. A few drops of this 
acid, mixed with pure water, and applied to the spots 
of ink, will entirel}' remove them. Great caution 
must be observed, however, not to suiFer any part of 
the linen, or other material, to come in contact with 
the acid before it is sufficiently diluted : otherwise, 
the texture of the fabric will be destroyed. 

TO REMOVE FRUIT STAINS, 

These are readily removed from clothes by wetting 
them, and placing them near lighted brimstone. A 
few matches will answer the purpose. 

TO KEEP OFF MOTHS. 

In the month of April, or before flies or insects 
make their appearance, beat your fur or woollen gar- 
ments w^ell with a small cane or elastic stick ; then 
wrap them up in linen, observing not to press the fur 
garments too hard, and put between the folds some 
camphor in small lumps ; then put your articles in 
boxes well closed. When the garments are wanted 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 427 

for use, take them out, beat them well as before, and 
expose them twenty-four hours to the air, which will 
take away the smell of the camphor. 



TO BLEACH BEESWAX. 

Melt your wax, and while hot throw it into cold 
water to reduce it into small pieces, or spread it out 
into very thin leaves, and lay it out in the sun and 
air for a few days on linen cloths ; then melt it over 
again, and expose it as before, till the sun and dew 
have bleached it ; then, for the last time, melt it in a 
kettle, and cast it with a ladle on a table covered over 
with little round, hollow molds in the form of the 
casks sold by the apothecaries ; but first wet your 
molds with cold water, that the wax may be the 
easier got out ; lastly, lay it out in the air for two or 
three days and nights, to make it more transparent 
and dry. 



SIMPLE MEANS OF PURIFYING WATER. 

It is not generally known, as it ought to be, that 
pounded alum possesses the property of purifying 
water. A large tablespoonful of pulverized alum, 
sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water being 
fresh at the time), will, after the lapse of a few hours, 
by precipitating to the bottom the impure particles, 
purify it, so that it will be found to possess nearly all 
the freshness and clearness of the finest spring-water; 
a pailful, containing four gallons, may be purified 
with a single teaspoonful. 



428 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



TO MAKE A MATTRASS, THAT WILL NOT SINK IN THE 
MIDDLE. 

To produce this effect, make your mattrass twice 
as long as usual, double it, sew the two ends together, 
and arrange the stuffing, where it joins, the same as 
the rest. It will then have the form of a roller, or 
double towel, which may be rolled for ever, and will 
always remain double and folded. "When you put it 
on the bed, it will be the same as two mattrasses one 
over the other. It takes no more tucking or stuffing 
for this double mattrass than for two single ones. 
The advantage of this invention is, that every time 
the bed is made, you may easily roll the mattrass, so 
that the part which was under the body may be 
placed at the head or foot, sometimes above and 
sometimes below ; and successively every part of the 
mattrass made to pass to those places where the com- 
pression is greater : you may even, from time to time, 
turn it inside out like a stocking, and by this means 
produce other changes. A mattrass made in this 
manner lasts much longer, and is likewise easier tp 
sleep on than one made in the usual way. 

TO DESTROY RATS. 

Take a few fresh corks, rasp them fine, and fry 
them in the common way with a little butter or fat ; 
place it, w^hile warm, at the points where rats are 
plenty, and, if possible, where they may eat the dose 
undisturbed by any noise ; leave no water within 
their reach, and in a few days not a vestige of the 
creatures will be seen. The above plan is more safe 
than poisoning them. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 429 



ANOTHER METHOD. 

Take a small pine stick, and slightly fasten six or 
eight fish-hooks to it, the points all one way, and put 
the stick in the rat-holes, so that when they run into 
the hole they will rub against the hooks, which will 
catch into the skin, and with a little exertion they 
clear the hooks from the stick, and go off squealing 
with the hooks fast in the skin ; and a few rats, so 
hooked, will give warning to others, and they will 
all soon disappear. Try it, and you will not be 
disappointed. 

TO PREVENT FLEAS INFESTING ROOMS OR BEDS. 

Take a few branches of pennyroyal, and hang it 
up or lay it on the bed, or carry a few sprigs in the 
pocket, and the flea will never make its appearance. 
This simple remedy has never failed of the desired 
efl'ect. 

A CURE FOR THE RED ANTS. 

Common salt is a complete barrier to the approach 
of the red ant. Let the salt be so placed, that they 
cannot approach the place from which you wish to 
exclude them, without passing over it, and the remedy 
is complete. 

TO DESTROY FLIES. 

Half a spoonful of ground black pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cream, 
mixed well together, and placed on a plate, will 
attract and destroy flies, without any danger of poi- 
soning children. 



430 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

A SIMPLE WAY OF PREVENTING FLIES FROM SITTING 
ON PICTURES, OR ANY OTHER FURNITURE. 

Let a large bunch of leeks soak for five or six days 
in a pailful of water, and wash your pictures, or any 
piece of furniture, with it. The flies will never come 
near anything so washed. 

TO DESTROY ROACHES. 

Preserve a moderate quantity of pokeroot, boil it in 
water until the juice is extracted, and mingle the 
liquor with good molasses ; spread the liquor in plat- 
ters or soup-plates in the kitchen, pantry, closet, 
wash-house, or whatever apartment is infested by 
them, and the enemy will be found slain in heaps by 
the following morning. 

TO CLEAN FLINT GLASS BOTTLES, DECANTERS, ETC. 

Roll up, in small pieces, some white, brown, or 
blotting paper ; then wet and soap the same ; put 
them into the vessel to be cleaned, with a little warm 
water ; shake them well for a few minutes, then rinse 
with clean water, and it will be as bright and clear as 
when new from the shops. 

TO CLEAN SILVER AND PLATED WARE. 

Wash it first in warm water, to take off" grease, or 
any kind of dirt ; then wipe it dry with a soft towel. 
Clean with whiting and sweet-oil, or prepared chalk 
and whiskey, rubbed on with flannel. Polish with a 
piece of soft buckskin, or a soft brush, made for that 
purpose. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 431 

METHOD FOR CLEANING FINE BLOCK TIN DISH COVERS, 
PATENT PEWTER, ETC. 

Where the polish has gone ofi", let the articles be 
rubbed over the outside with a little sweet-oil on a 
piece of soft linen cloth ; then clean it off with dry, 
pure whiting, ((uite free from sand, on linen cloths. 
The inside should be rubbed with rags moistened in 
wet whiting, but without a drop of oil. Alwaj'S 
wiping these articles dry when brought from the 
table ; and keeping them free from steam, or other 
dampness, greatly diminishes the trouble of cleaning 
them. 

TO CLEAN BRITANNIA WARE. 

Mix together some yellow soap, sweet-oil, and 
enough rum or whiskey to make the preparation the 
consistency of thick cream. Dip into it a soft sponge, 
and rub it evenly and quickly on the article ; then 
wipe it off, and polish with a piece of silk or buckskin. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Britannia ware should be first rubbed gently with 
a woollen cloth and sweet-oil ; then washed in warm 
suds, and rubbed with soft leather and whiting. 
Thus treated, it will retain its beauty to the last. 

TO REMOVE MEDICINE STAINS FROM SILVER. 

Silver spoons frequently become discolored by using 
them in taking medicine. These stains, even that of 
muriate of iron, may be removed by rubbing the spoon 
with sulphuric acid, and afterwards washing it off in 
soap-suds ; then cleaning the spoon in the usual 
manner. 



432 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



A FINE PLATE MIXTURE. 

Take one pound of the best whiting, rub it to a fine 
powder, and sift it. Mix together four ounces of spi- 
rits of turpentine ; two ounces of spirits of wine ; one 
ounce of spirits of camphor ; and half an ounce of 
hartshorn. Then add the whiting gradually to the 
liquid, stirring in a little at a time, and mixing the 
whole thoroughl}' till it is of the consistency of cream : 
put it into a very close vessel, and cork tightly, tying 
down a leather over the cork. To use the mixture, 
pour out a sufficient quantity, and with a soft, clean 
sponge cover the silver with it, so as to give it a coat 
like white-wash. Set it aside for ten minutes or more, 
till the paste has dried into a powder ; then polish, 
first with a buckskin, and afterwards with a silk hand- 
kerchief. It will be found convenient to keep this 
mixture always ready for use, as it makes plate look 
beautifully new. 

CEMENT FOR MENDING BROKEN CHINA OR GLASSWARE. 

Mix half a pint of skimmed milk with an equal 
quantit}' of vinegar, so as to coagulate the milk. Se- 
parate the curd from the whey, and mix the former 
with the whites of four or five eggs, after beating 
them up well. The mixture of these two substances 
being complete, add sifted quicklime, and make the 
whole into a thick paste of the consistence of putty. 
If this be carefully applied to broken bodies, or to 
fissures of any kind, and dried properly, it resists fire 
and water. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 433 



ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Pound burned oyster-shells, sift the powder through 
a very fine sieve, and grind it on a painter's stone till 
it becomes very fine ; then take the whites of several 
eggs, according to the quantity of powder, beat them 
well, and having mixed them with it, form the whole 
into a kind of paste ; join the pieces of china or glass, 
press them together for seven or eight minutes, and 
the united parts will stand heat and water, and will 
not come apart if they should fall to the ground. 

CHINESE METHOD OF MENDING CHINA. 

Take a piece of flint glass, beat it to a fine powder, 
and grind it with the white of an egg ; this mixture 
joins china without riveting, so that no art can break 
it in the same place. The composition is to be ground 
extremely fine on a painter's stone. 

HOW TO GET A TIGHT RING OFF A FINGER. 

Thread a needle, flat in the eye, with a strong 
thread, pass the head of the needle, with care, under 
the ring, and pull the thread through a few inches 
towards the hand ; wrap the long end of the thread 
tightly round the finger, regularly all down to the 
nail, to reduce its size. Then lay hold of the short 
end and unwind it. The thread passing against the 
ring, will gradually remove it from the finger. This 
never- failing method will remove the tightest ring 
>\'ithout difliculty, however much swollen the finger 
may be. 
37 



434 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

TO EXTRACT A GLASS STOPPER. 

Take a large strip of wool ; pass it once around the 
neck of the bottle ; attach one end of this to a board, 
or some fixed object ; hold the other, and then seesaw 
the bottle along it. The friction will soon heat the 
neck of the bottle, and by the heat the neck will 
expand sufficiently to allow of the stopper being ex- 
tracted. 

TO REMOVE PANES OF GLASS. 

Put soft soap on the putty for a few hours, and it 
becomes as soft as if just put on, though the putty 
had become as hard as a stone. 

TO MAKE PASTE. 

Putting acetate or sugar of lead into it, instead of 
the old way of mixing it with alum, keeps it free from 
mold, clear, and quite moist for months together. 

TO CLEAN PAINT THAT IS NOT VARNISHED. 

Put upon a plate some of the best whiting ; have 
ready some clear, warm water, and a piece of flannel, 
which dip into the water, and squeeze nearly dry ; 
then take as much whiting as will adhere to it ; apply 
it to the paint, when a little rubbing will instantly 
remove any dirt or grease. Wash well oft' with water, 
and rub it dry with a soft cloth. Paint thus cleansed 
looks equal to new, and without doing the least injury 
to the most delicate color. It will preserve the paint 
much longer than if cleaned with soap, and it does 
not require more than half the time usually occupied 
in cleaning. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 435 

A WASH TO CLEAN PICTURES. 

Make a ley with clear water and wood-ashes ; in 
this dip a sponge, and rub the picture over, and it 
cleanses it perfectly. The same may be done with 
chamber-ley alone, or with white wine. 

TO REVIVE OLD WRITINGS, WHICH ARE ALMOST DEFACED. 

Boil gall-nuts into wine ; steep a sponge into that 
liquor ; then pass it on the lines of the old writing, 
and all the letters which were almost undecipherable 
will appear as fresh as when newly done. 

TO PREVENT MOLDING IN BOOKS, INK, PASTE, AND 
LEATHER. 

Collectors of books will not be sorry to learn that a 
few drops of oil of lavender will insure their libraries 
from this pest. A single drop of the same oil will 
prevent a pint of ink from molding any length of 
time. Paste may be kept from mold entirely by its 
addition ; and leather is also eftectually secured from 
injury by the same agency. 

TO CLEAN KNIVES AND FORKS. 

Procure a smooth board, cover it with leather ; melt 
a sufficient quantity of mutton suet, and put it hot 
upon the leather with a piece of flannel. Then take 
two pieces of soft Bath brick, and rub them one 
against the other over the leather till it is covered 
with the powder, which rub in until no grease comes 
through when a knife is passed over the leather, 
which may be easily known by the knife's keeping 
its polish. 



436 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

TO KEEP UP SASH WINDOWS. 

This is performed by means of cork, in the simplest 
manner, and with scarcely any expense. Bore three 
or four holes in the sides of the sash, into which in- 
sert common bottle-corks, projecting about the six- 
teenth part of an inch. These will press against the 
frames, along the usual grooves, and by their elas- 
ticity support the sash at any height which may be 
required. 

COMPOSITION FOR RAZORS. 

Common candle-snuff, clear of grit, spread on a 
razor-strop, produces the best edge, in the shortest 
time, of anj'thiug ever tried. The coat should be 
spread wnth a knife, not too thick, and will last se- 
veral months ; first rub the strap with a little clean 
tallow. 

WOOD POLISHING. 

The Persians have introduced an entirely new mode 
of polishing, which is to wood precisely what plating 
is to metal. Water may be spilled on it without stain- 
ing, and it resists scratching the same as marble. The 
receipt is as follows : — 

To one pint of spirits of wine, add half an ounce 
of gum shellac, and half an ounce of gum sandrick, 
placing it over a gentle heat, and frequently agitating 
it until the gums are dissolved, when it is fit for use. 

Make a roller of list, put a little of the polish upon 
it, and cover that with a soft linen rag, which must 
be slightly touched with cold-drawn linseed-oil. Rub 
them in the wood, in a circular direction, not cover- 
ing too large a space at a time, till the pores are suffi- 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 437 

ciently filled up. After this, rub in the same manner 
spirits of wine with a small portion of the polish 
added to it, and a most brilliant polish will be pro- 
duced. If the outside has been previously polished 
with wax, it will be necessary to clean it off with 
glass paper. 

POLISH FOR DINING TABLES. 

Rub them with cold-drawn linseed-oil, thus : — Put 
a little in the middle of a table, and then with a piece 
of linen (never use woollen) cloth, rub it well all over 
the table ; then take another piece of linen, and rub 
it for ten minutes ; then rub it quite dry with another 
cloth. This must be done every day for several 
months, when you will find your mahogany acquire a 
permanent and beautiful lustre, unattainable by any 
other means, and equal to the finest French polish ; 
and if the table is covered with the table-cloth only, 
the hottest dishes will make no impression upon it. 
When once this polish is produced, it will only require 
dry rubbing, with a linen cloth, for about ten minutes, 
twice in a week, to preserve it in the highest per- 
fection. 

COMPOSITION FOR MAKING COMMON WOOD RESEMBLE 
MAHOGANY. 

This will make any species of wood, of a close 
grain, so nearly to resemble mahogany in the nature, 
density, and polish, that the most accurate judges are 
incapable of distinguishing between this happy imi- 
tation and the native produce. The first operation, 
as now practised in France, is to plane the surface, 
so as to render it perfectly smooth ; the wood is then 
to be rubbed with diluted nitrous acid, which pre- 
37* 



438 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

pares it for the materials subsequently to be applied. 
Afterward one ounce and a half of dragon's blood, 
dissolved in a pint of spirits of wine, and one-third of 
that quantity of carbonate of soda, are to be mixed 
together and filtered, and the liquid in this state is to 
be rubbed, or rather laid upon the wood with a soft 
brush. This process is repeated, with very little 
alteration ; and in a short interval afterward the wood 
possesses the external appearance of mahogany; when 
this application has been properly made, the surface 
will resemble an artificial mirror : but if the polish 
become less brilliant, by rubbing it with a little cold- 
drawn linseed-oil, the wood will be restored to its 
former brilliancy. 

USEFUL COMPOSITION. 

To prevent friction, and facilitate the running of 
machinery, the best thing in use is said to be grease, 
eight parts, to two parts of black-lead, intimately 
mixed. 

TO PREVENT THE SMOKING OF A LAMP. 

Soak the wick in strong vinegar, and dry it well 
before you use it ; it will then burn well, and give 
much satisfaction for the trifling trouble in prepar- 
ing it. 

SMOKY CHIMNEYS. 

It has been clearly demonstrated by science and 
practical experiments that this great drawback upon 
domestic comfort is remedied by a simple process, 
viz., a slight, but continued enlargement, commencing 
at the bottom of the flue, and extending to the top. 
This is sure to produce a draught, and it is presumed 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 439 

that in most instances of defective chimneys, inatten- 
tion to this simple rule, in the original construction 
would be found to be the cause of the evil. 

TO PREVENT SOOT FROM ACCUMULATINa IN CHIMNEYS. 

Instead of plastering the inside of chimneys in the 
usual way, take mortar made with one peck of salt to 
each bushel of lime, adding as much sand and lime 
as will render it fit to work, and then lay on a thick 
coat. If the chimney has no offsets for the soot to 
lodge on, it will continue perfectly clear and free from 
all danger of taking fire. 

COMPOSITION TO DEFEND THE ROOF OF A HOUSE FROM 
THE WEATHER AND FIRE. 

Take one measure of fine sand, two measures of 
wood-ashes well sifted, three of slackened lime ground 
up with oil ; lay this on with a painter's brush — first 
coat thin, and second thick. This mixture adheres 
so strongly to a board that it resists an iron tool, and 
the operation of fire. 

COMPOSITION FOR PRESERVING FARMERS' UTENSILS. 

Put three-fourths of a pound of resin into an iron 
kettle, with three gallons of train-oil, and three or 
four rolls of brimstone ; when they are melted and 
become thin, add as much Spanish brown, or any 
other color you choose, ground up in oil in the usual 
way, as will give the color you desire ; then lay on a 
thin coat with a brush, and when dry lay on another. 
This will preserve barrows, plows, carts, wagons, 
yokes, gate-posts, weather-boards, shingles, &c., many 
years from the effects of the weather. 



440 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



COMPOSITION FOR PRESERVING HARNESS. 

The following is a method of preserving leather, 
harness, and traces, engine hose, boots, and shoes, 
cording, cart and wagon covers, stack cloths, &c., in 
the most effectual manner: — Take of neatsfoot-oil one 
quart; beeswax, cut small, one ounce; oil of tar half a 
pound ; and after simmering the neatsfoot-oil and wax 
a little in a pipkin, the oil of tar must be added ; when, 
after a gentle simmering again for a few minutes, stir- 
ring it the whole time wath a stick, the mixture will 
be finished, though an ounce of naphtha added would 
be a considerable improvement. It is used precisely 
as oil would be applied, and where it may be required 
to soften old and hardened leather, a sponging with 
hot water first, is advisable, and the liquid should be 
driven in before the fire. Leather, or cordage, dressed 
with this liquid, never rots, hardens, nor grows 
moldy. 

When it is desirable to render leather water-proof, 
the ounce of naphtha proposed to be added should 
have a drachm of India-rubber dissolved in it. 
Kaphtha is highly inflammable, and therefore should 
be kept from the fire and candle, and added after the 
mixture is taken from the fire. 

COMPOSITION FOR PRESERVING BOOTS AND SHOES. 

The receipt is as follows, and is to be used for the 
"uppers" only: — One half-pint neat's-foot oil, one 
ounce beeswax, one ounce spirits turpentine, one 
ounce tar, one half-ounce Burgundy pitch, to be 
slowly melted together, and well incorporated by stir- 
ring, taking care not to set the mass on fire, as the 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 441 

articles are all highly inflammable. The boots being 
damp, the composition is to be spread on with a 
small brush, taking care to cover the seams well, and 
then be allowed to dry ; the application to be renewed 
until the leather is saturated. 

For the soles, tar alone is the best application, to 
be put on while hot, the boots also having been by 
the fire, so that the soles are quite warm ; if there is 
no grease, or other foreign matter, on the soles, three 
or four, or sometimes more, coats will sink into the 
leather ; it must also be used until the soles are com- 
pletely saturated. The trouble of preparing boots 
after the above directions is very trifling; and any 
one once having tried it, and experienced the comfort 
of being all day in the snow and slush, without having 
wet feet, will never fail to continue the use of it. 



COMPOSITION TO SENDER SHOES WATER-TIGHT 

One pint of drying oil, two ounces of yellow wax, 
two ounces of turpentine, half an ounce Burgundy 
pitch, melted carefully over a slow fire. If new 
shoes are rubbed carefully with this mixture, either 
in the sunshine or at some distance from the fire, with 
a sponge or soft brush, and the operation is repeated 
as often as they become dry, till the leather is fully 
saturated, they will be impervious to the wet, and will 
wear much longer, as well as acquire a softness 
and pliability that will prevent the leather from 
shrivelling. 

Shoes or boots prepared as above ought not to 
be worn until perfectly dry and elastic, otherwise 
their durability would rather be prevented than in- 
creased. 



442 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



BLACKING, 

Which, when on the boots or shoes, can be rubbed 
with a cambric handkerchief, without soiling it in the 
least, and will assume the same lustre, after being 
plunged in water, as before : — 

Quarter of a pound of ivory-black, one ounce of 
sweet-oil, one ounce spirits of lavender, one ounce oil 
of vitriol, two ounces sugar-candy, three pints best 
vinegar, or stale beer, and juice of two lemons. 

The ivory-black and sweet-oil are to be well mixed 
in a mortar, the sugar-candy to be pounded, the 
vitriol to be put in a glass of water, and allowed to 
stand till cold. The spirits of lavender and oil of 
vitriol are not to be put in until all the other ingre- 
dients have been well mixed. 



ANOTHER. 

The following are said to be the materials of which 
Bay & Martin's blacking is made : — 

To one pound of ivory-black, in which has been 
mixed half an ounce of oil of vitriol and one ounce 
of sweet-oil, add one pound of pulverized loaf-sugar. 
Mix the whole with a gallon of vinegar, and let it 
stand three days, when it is fit for use. 

It should be stirred often, and kept from the air to 
prevent evaporation. The cost of a gallon of this 
blacking is seventy-five cents, and is retailed at the 
^ores at the rate of four dollars. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 443 



JAPAN COPAL VARNISH. 

One ounce gum-copal, one ounce gum Arabic, 
one ounce gum tragacanth, four ounces gum shel- 
lac, and one-quarter of an ounce of gum myrrh ; 
pound it fine, and put it in a quart of alcohol. Let 
it stand for half an hour ; after that, the composition 
is fit for use. 

For coloring red, one-quarter of an ounce of San- 
ders yellow, one-quarter of a pound of turmeric. 
To color black, one-quarter of an ounce of lamp-black. 

Wood may be made any color, and when dry, this 
varnish will give it the gloss. 

The best material for black color is the oil varnish, 
which may be obtained at any drug-store. To pre- 
pare the work for varnishing, oil it completely with 
linseed-oil, put on with a sponge. 

How to apply the Varnish. — Absorb with a sponge 
a suflacient quantity to varnish the piece of work 
which is to be finished (three or four tablespoonsful 
is suflicient for a sideboard) ; over the sponge you 
must put a cotton or linen cloth ; then apply to the 
cloth a little linseed-oil, which may be frequently re- 
peated while varnishing. The varnish dries as it is 
applied to the wood, and at the same time gives the 
tint or shade required, if the coloring material is 
mixed with it. 

The varnish may be mixed with the coloring mate- 
rial, and the varnish and coloring all done at the 
same time, or the coloring may be given first ; after 
which the varnish may be applied. If the varnishing 
and coloring are to be performed at the same time, a 
suflicient quantity of varnish and coloring matter 
must be mixed together to varnish the work to be 



444 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

finished. If, however, it is desirable to varnish and 
color separately, the color should be laid on first, 
and when dry the varnish may be laid on as above 
directed. 

TO MAKE JAPANESE CEMENT, OR RICE GLUE. 

This cement is made by mixing rice-flour inti- 
mately with cold water, and then gently boiling it. 
It is beautifully white, and dries almost transparent. 
Papers pasted together by means of this cement will 
sooner separate in their own substance than at the 
joining, which makes it extremely useful in the pre- 
paration of curious paper articles, as tea-trays, ladies' 
dressing-boxes, and other articles which require layers 
of paper to be cemented together. It is, in every 
respect, preferable to common paste made with wheat 
flour, for almost every purpose to which that article 
is usually applied. It answers, in particular, for 
pasting into books the copies of writings taken off by 
copying-machines, or insized silver paper. With this 
composition, made with a comparatively small quan- 
tity of water, that it may have a consistence similar to 
' that of plastic clay, models, busts, stays, and the like, 
may be formed when dry. The articles made of it 
are susceptible of a very high polish. They are also 
very durable. 

TO MAKE A BEAUTIFUL AND LASTING WHITEWASH. 

Take a quarter of a peck of unslacked lime, and 
pour on it a kettle of boiling water ; while the lime 
is slacking, add half a gallon of stale chamber-ley ; 
when the lime is perfectly slacked, dilute it with 
water to the proper consistence, and add to this mix- 
ture one-quarter of an ounce of Prussian blue. This 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 445 

will give you a beautiful and lasting wash, that will 
neither peel off nor turn yellow, and will look nearly 
as well as white paint. By increasing the quantity 
of blue, you may make either a pale or a dark blue, 
as best suits your taste : or, if you prefer it, by add- 
ing yellow or red ochre, you may impart either of 
these tints to your wash. 

TO MAKE A BRILLIANT STUCCO WHITEWASH FOR BUILD- 
INGS, INSIDE OR OUT. 

Add one-quarter of a pound of whiting, or burned 
alum pulverized ; one pound of loaf-sugar ; three 
quarts of rice-flour, made into a thin and well-boiled 
paste; one pound of the cleanest glue, dissolved in 
the same way as by cabinet-makers. This mixture 
may be put on cold within doors, but hot outside. 
This preparation will be as brilliant as plaster of 
Paris, and retain its brilliancy for many years. 

TO MAKE A CHEAP PAINT, OR WHITEWASH. 

Take two quarts of skimmed-milk, two ounces of 
fresh slacked lime, and five pounds of w^hiting. Put 
the lime into a stone vessel, pour upon it a sufficient 
quantity of milk to make a mixture resembling cream ; 
then add the remainder of the milk. When this is 
done, crumble and spread the whiting on the surface 
of the fluid, in which it will gradually sink. It must, 
after all the whiting has been precipitated, be well 
stirred, or ground as you would other paint, when it 
will be fit for use. By the addition of any coloring 
matter, you may make it to suit your fancy. It 
should be put on with a paint-brush, and when dry a 
second coat should be given. The quantity above 
mentioned is sufficient for twenty-seven yards. 
38 



446 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

ANOTHER. 

Take one bushel of lime, and slack it with cold 
water; when well slacked, add to it twenty pounds 
of Spanish whiting, seventeen pounds of salt, and 
twelve pounds of sugar. Strain this mixture through 
a wire sieve, and it will be fit for use after reducing 
it with cold water. This is intended for the outside 
of a building, where it is exposed to all weather. In 
order to give a good color, three coats are necessary 
on brick, and two on wood. It may be laid on with 
a wliitewash brush. Each coat must have a sufiicient 
time to dry before the next is applied. 

For painting inside walls, take one bushel of un- 
slacked lime, three pounds of sugar, five pounds of 
salt ; prepare as above, and apply with a brush. It 
is well calculated to preserve brick walls ; and is far 
preferable to oil paint. This paint will preserve 
rough boards longer than dressing them, and cover- 
ing them with oil paint. You can make any color 
you please. For straw color, use yellow ochre in- 
stead of whiting ; for lemon color, ochre and chrome 
yellow; for lead and slate color, lampblack; for blue, 
indigo ; for green, chrome green. These dift'erent 
kinds of paints will not cost one-fourth as much as oil 
paints, including the putting on. 

A CHEAP WHITE PAINT. 

One pound of unslacked lime, one pound of Spanish 
whiting, one gallon of sweet milk, one gallon of flax- 
seed oil, one tablespoonful of lime ; pour on the lime 
sufiicient water to slack it, and while the lime is 
slacking, pour in the oil ; add the whiting and salt, 
and then pour on the milk, and stir it well. 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 447 

A CHEAP GREEN PAINT. 

Take four pounds of Roman vitriol, and pour upon 
it a tea-kettleful of boiling water. When the vitriol 
is dissolved, add two pounds of pearlash, and stir the 
mixture well with a stick until the effervescence 
ceases ; then add a quarter of a pound of pulverized 
yellow arsenic, and stir the whole together. Lay it 
on with a paint-brush, and if the wall has not been 
painted, two or three coats will be necessary. If a 
pea-green be required, put on less ; and if an apple- 
green, more of the yellow arsenic. 

The cost of this paint is less than one-fourth of oil 
color, and the beauty far superior. 

PERMANENT INK FOR MARKING LINEN. 

This useful ink is composed of nitrate of silver (lu- 
nar caustic), and tincture or infusion of galls, in the 
proportions of one drachm of the former, in a dry 
state, to two drachms of the latter. The linen or cot- 
ton must be first soaked in the following liquid, viz : 
salt of tartar, one ounce, dissolved in one ounce and 
a half of water ; and must be perfectly dry before any 
attempt is made to write upon it. 

MARKING OR DURABLE INK. 

Take six cents' worth of lunar caustic, and having 
put it into an ounce vial full of vinegar, cork it tight 
and hang it in the sun. In a couple of days it will 
be fit for use. To make the preparation for the 
above, take a lump of pearlash of the size of a chest- 
nut, and dissolve it in a gill of rain-water. The part 
of the muslin or linen to be written upon, is to be 



448 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

wet with the preparation, and dried and glazed with 
a warm flat-iron : immediately after which, it is 
ready for marking. 

TO MAKE BLACK INK. 

In three pints of vinegar, let three ounces of gall- 
nuts, one ounce powdered logwood, and one ounce 
green vitriol, be steeped half an hour ; then add one 
half-ounce gum Arabic, and when the gum is dis- 
solved, pass the whole mixture through a hair sieve. 

IMPROVED COMPOSITION OF BLACK WRITING INK. 

Take a gallon of soft water, and boil in it one 
pound of chips of logwood for about half an hour ; 
then take the decoction from the fire, and pour it 
from oiF the chips, while boiling hot, on a pound of 
the best Aleppo galls, reduced to a fine powder, and 
two ounces of pomegranate peels. After having 
stirred them well together with a wooden spoon, or 
ladle, for some time, place them in the sunshine in 
summer, or within the warmth of the fire, if in win- 
ter, for three or four days, stirring the mixture as 
often as may be convenient ; at the end of that time, 
add half a pound of green vitriol, powdered, and let 
the mixture remain four or five days more, stirring it 
frequently, and then add further four ounces gum 
Arabic, dissolved in a quart of boiling water ; and 
after giving the ink some time to settle, strain it off 
from the dregs, and keep it well stopped for use. 

If the ink be desired to shine more, the proportion 
of the pomegranate peel must be increased. 

In order to secure this ink from growing moldy, a 
quarter of a pint of spirits of wine may be added ; 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 449 

but to prevent its containing any acid which may 
injure the ink, a Httle salt of tartar, or pearlash, 
should be added previously, and the spirits poured 
ofi" from it. 



FOR MAKING RED INK. 

Infuse four ounces of ground Brazil-wood in one 
quart of vinegar for three days, then heat it to the 
boiling point, and keep it for an hour at that tem- 
perature ; after which, it must be filtrated. While 
hot, dissolve in it one-third of an ounce of gum 
Arabic, and the same quantity of sugar, and of alum ; 
allow it to cool, and put it into bottles well stopped. 
An ink of a still more beautiful shade may be made 
with a decoction of cochineal, to which ammonia is 
to be added. 

HOW TO PREPARE PRINTER'S INK. 

Take one pound of common turpentine, made with 
juniper and linseed-oil. Add to it one ounce of resin 
black, which is the smoke of it, and a sufficient 
quantity of oil of nuts. 

Set this composition on the fire, and boil it to a 
good consistence. In the summer it must boil a little 
more than in winter, for in the summer the ink must 
be thicker, because the heat makes it more fluid. 

FOR STOPPING A LEAK IN A CASK. 

The best thing for stopping a leak in a cask is 
whiting beaten up with common yellow soap. If this 
mixture be well rubbed into the leak, it will be found 
to stop it after everything else has failed. 

8«* 



450 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



TO PRESERVE NAILS FROM RUSTING. 

Take cut nails, and heat them pretty hot, but not 
red hot, in a fire-shovel over the fire, and then drop 
them into a glazed vessel containing train oil. They 
absorb a good deal of oil, and when thus prepared, 
never become rusty, and will last many years. Hinges 
and screws that are exposed to the weather would be 
equally benefited by such a treatment. The preparaiton 
of cut or wrought nails used in making board fences, 
or in any place where there is considerable exposure 
to the weather, in the manner recommended above, 
would be a decided improvement. 

GREASE FOR WHEEL AXLES. 

Thicken half a pint of melted grease with black- 
lead in powder, having previously thrown in and 
melted a lump of beeswax of the size of a small 
hickory-nut. Apply it to the hubs and axles before 
it hardens. In warm weather, use tallow instead of 
soft grease. Black-lead is sometimes gritty, that is, 
it contains sand, and such should be rejected. If tar 
has been previously applied to the hubs and axles, it 
ought to be carefully removed before the composition 
is applied ; and until the pores of the wood become 
filled with the composition, it may escape from the 
boxes in that way, and render frequent examinations 
for the first few weeks necessary. 

BROWNING STEEL OR IRON. 

After a long series of experiments, Mr. Ettrich has 
discovered, and made known in a foreign journal, a 
process of procuring a permanent oxide, and then 
giving it a dark-brown or black color. The iron or 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 451 

steel of a rifle-barrel, for instance, must be well 
smoothed and polished, and all greasiness removed 
by chalk before browning commences. Then mix 
one part of nitric acid with one hundred parts of 
water, and, moistening a rag in this, apply it to the 
barrel. It is material that the rag should only be 
moistened, for if instead of damping the iron, the 
fluid streams over it, the browning will be imperfect 
and irregular. The barrel, after being wet, should 
be placed in a window on which the sun shines, for 
an hour or more ; and when this process has been 
twice or thrice repeated, the superfluous rust must be 
removed by a scratch-brush, consisting of a quantity 
of fine wire tied up into a bundle. This process 
being repeated eight or ten times, the barrel will have 
acquired as perfect a brown as is usually given by 
gunsmiths ; but to take away the rusty appearance that 
remains on the iron, it is browned or blacked, by 
dissolving one grain of nitrate of silver in five hun- 
dred of water, and applying this solution in the same 
way as the acid. The number of repetitions of nitrate 
of silver water will depend on the shade of blackness 
required, but from one to five will be sufficient : at 
each wetting with the nitrate, the barrel should be 
placed in the sunshine, to insure a dark color. The 
last process is to apply the scratch freely, though 
lightly, and then polish the whole down by beeswax. 
Mr.Ettrich found by experiment, after becoming ac- 
quainted with the process used by the trade, that his 
system of operation produced a much finer and darker 
brown than could be given by theirs, and is decidedly 
more simple and easy in being carried into eflfect. 



452 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

PIG TROUGHS. 

Take two pieces of board or plank, of the length 
that you wish your trough ; put two of their edges 
together at right angles, and nail them strong; 
then take two pieces, something longer than the 
trough is wide, and nail upon the ends ; then take 
some clay mortar and fill up the chinks to prevent its 
leaking, and it is done. The food settles down in the 
bottom of the trough, and the pig will lay his sharp 
under jaw into it completely, while the long ends 
prevent its being upset so easily as the old kind. 
Anybody who can saw a board off, or drive a nail, 
can make one. If you have no trough for your pig, 
just try your hand at making one on this plan. 

FENCE POSTS. 

An excellent method of rendering fence posts dura- 
ble in the ground, consists, 1st. In peeling the posts, 
and in sawing and splitting them, if too large. 2d. In 
sticking them up under cover, at least one entire sum- 
mer ; and, 3d. In coating with hot tar about three 
feet of the but-ends, which are to be inserted in the 
ground; after which they are ready for use. We 
have no doubt that the advantages of this mode of pre- 
paration will more than remunerate for labor and 
expense. The best timber is obtained from trees 
wd:iich have stood a year, after they have been girdled 
and peeled. 

FENCE POSTS — ANOTHER. 

The durability of posts, used in making fences, is a 
matter of great importance to farmers, and will con- 
tinue so as long as the present system of fencing is 
continued. We are informed that the Shakers of 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 453 

Union Village have been in the habit of making oak 
posts as durable as locust, by a very simple and easy 
process. This is merely to bore a hole in that part 
of the post which will be just at the surface of the 
earth, with such a slope as will carry it just below 
the surface, and fill it with salt. This, it is said, will 
preserve the timber from decaying for a long time ; 
and, from the knowledge we have of the influence 
of salt in preserving ship-timber, when treated in a 
similar manner, we have no doubt of its being an ex- 
cellent method. 

MEASURING CORN. 

Having previously levelled the corn in the house, 
so that it will be of equal depth throughout, ascertain 
the length, depth, and breadth of the bulk ; multiply 
these dimensions together, and their products by four ; 
then cut off" one figure from the right of the last pro- 
duct: this will give so many bushels, and decimal 
bushels of shelled corn. If it be required to find the 
quantity of corn in the ears, substitute 8 for 4, and 
cut off one figure as before. 

Example. — In a bulk of corn in the ears, measur- 
ing twelve feet long, eleven feet broad, and six feet 
deep, there will be 316 bushels, and eight-tenths of 
a bushel of shelled corn ; or 633 bushels of ears, as 
follows : — 

12 12 

11 11 



132 
6 


132 
6 


792 
4 


792 
8 


Shell corn, 316.8 


633.6 ears 



454 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

The decimal 4 is used when the object is to find 
the quantity in shelled corn, because that decimal is 
half of the decimal, and it requires two bushels of ears 
to make one of shelled corn. In using these rules, a 
half-bushel should be added for every hundred, that 
amount of error resulting from the substitution of the 
decimals. 

TO CALCULATE INTEREST. 

A short and simple method of calculating interest 
at six per cent, per annum. 

Rule. — Multiply the principal by half the number 
of months. 

Example. — What is the interest of forty dollars for 
twelve months ? 

$40 the principal. 

6 half the number of months. 



$2.40 answer. 

Example. — What is the interest of forty dollars for 
seven months ? 



H 



1.20 
20 



.40 answer. 



ANOTHER METHOD OF COMPUTING INTEREST. 

An accurate and easy way to calculate interest is to 
multiply the sum by the number of days ; that pro- 
duct being divided by 6 will give the interest in mills; 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 455 

then strike off" the right-hand figure, and the remain- 
der will be in cents. 

Example. 1250 dollars. 

80 days. 



Divide by 6)100000 



Interest at 6 per cent, for 80 days, $16.66 J 

If 7 per cent, is required, add one-sixth more to the 
interest. 

When the amount to be multiplied has a fraction, 
it is usual to drop it if under 50 cents, or count it 
another dollar if over. 

Each whole month should be reckoned as 30 days 

TO KILL WASPS OR YELLOW JACKETS. 

When a wasp's nest is found, take about half a pint 
of tar in a pitch ladle, and run part of it into a hole 
where tlie nest is ; put the remainder of the tar round 
about the mouth of the hole, and the job is done. All 
the wasps that are in the nest are caught in their at- 
tempt to come out, and those that are out are caught 
in their attempt to go in, so that none escape. If the 
nest should be in a place where the tar will soon get 
dry, it may perhaps be better to put a little more tar 
round the hole the following daj^, as in general there 
are a great many of them which are out all night, and 
when the tar is dry it will not catch them. It is not 
necessary to dig out the nest, and the tar may be ap- 
plied at any time of the day, even when the wasps 
are most busy. 

Should the wasps build their nests any place out 
of the ground, they might easily be destroyed by 
smoking them well with brimstone after night. 



466 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

IMPORTANT DISCOVERY; OR, HOW TO KILL CROWS WITH 
NEW ENGLAND RUM. 

Soak some corn in a quantity of rum, until it is 
Baturated therewith, and then spread it in a corn-iield 
infested with crows. The crows will eat, become 
stupefied, and then may be easily killed. 

TO PREVENT CROWS FROM PULLING UP CORN. 

Soak seed-corn in a solution of Glauber salts, from 
twenty-four to forty-eight hours before planting, and 
no living animal, with the sense of taste, will eat it. 

SCARE-CROWS. 

The best scare-crows we have ever used, were bright 
sheets of tin suspended from poles, by wires ; the poles 
of sufficient height, and in sufficient numbers, to be 
seen all over the field. Four or six, if judiciously 
placed, ^^'ill effectually answer for a field of fifty acres. 
The mode of fixing them is this : cut a pole of suffi- 
cient height, trim off all the limbs but the upper ones ; 
to the end of this limb attach, by a strong flexible 
wire, a sheet of tin, and plant the pole, thus provided, 
firmly in the ground, on the destined spot. The limb 
left at the top, should project horizontally far enough 
to allow full play to the tin. Thus attached, the 
slightest breeze gives motion to the tin, and conse- 
quently causes a reflection so sudden as to effectually 
frighten off the crows, or other birds addicted to pick- 
ing up the corn. 

ESTIMATING THE WEIGHT OF CATTLE. 
In a country like ours, where great numbers of cat- 
tle are annually bought and sold, under circumstances 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



457 



which preclude the possibility of ascertaining their 
weight with positive accuracy, it must be desirable 
that some general rules, approximating to exactness, 
should be known, in order to prevent mistake on the 
part of the interested individuals. In England, two 
or three tables have been constructed by different in- 
dividuals, founded on the length and girth of the 
animal, at certain points, and based on a vast number 
of experiments, most carefully made. To illustrate 
this matter, we have copied from an English work 
the figure and tables, as follows : — 




Girth 

feet. in. 

5 



5 6 



6 



6 6 



7 



8 



Length. 


Kenton's 


Table. 


Gary's Table 


feet 


in. 


stone. 


lb. 


sinne. lb 


3 


6 




21 

24 







21 


4 


24 


3 


9 


27 


1 


27 


4 





34 


4 

8 


34 7 


4 


6 


88 


38 11 


5 





43 


1 


43 


4 


6 


45 


9 


45 7 


4 


9 


48 





48 


5 


6 


64 


6 


64 7 


6 





70 


5 


70 3 


6 


6 


99 


8 


99 12 


7 





107 


6 


107 6 



39 



458 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

The manner of taking the girth and length of an 
animal is as follows: — The girth is taken hy passing 
a line jnst behind the shoulder-blade, and under the 
fore-legs (see line on the figure): this gives the cir- 
cumference of the animal. The length is taken along 
the back, from the foremost corner of the blade-bone 
of the shoulder, in a straight line, to the hindmost 
point of the rump, or to that bone of the tail that 
plumbs the line with the hinder part of the buttock. 
These lines are then measured by the foot-rule, and 
the w^eight can readily be calculated from the tables. 
Some slight difference of weight may be traced in the 
tables, and also in another one, calculated by M. Der- 
ment: but the agreement is sufficiently close to show 
that no material error can exist. The tables, accord- 
ing to the English mode of reckoning, are calculated 
upon the stone of fourteen pounds, avoirdupois; thus, 
if the girth is six feet, and the length five feet, the 
weight will be forty-three stone, one pound, or six 
hundred and three pounds. Mr. Benton in his "Gra- 
zier's Ready Reckoner," states that for a half-fattened 
ox, one stone in every twenty must be deducted ; and 
when they are very fat, one-twentieth may be added. 
Ko tables can, however, be at all times implicitly re- 
lied upon, as there are many circumstances connected 
with the build of the animal, the mode of fattening, 
&c., that will influence the measurement, and conse- 
quently the weight. As a general guide, such tables 
must be useful to the farmer, or grazier, for whose 
use they are of course principally intended. 

TO CURE SHEEP-SKINS WITH THE WOOL ON. 
Take a spoonful of alum, and two of saltpeter; 
pulverize and mix well together, then sprinkle the 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 459 

powder on the inside of the skin, and lay the two in- 
Bides together, leaving the wool outside. Then fold 
up the whole skin as tight as you can, and hang in a 
dry place. In two or three days, as soon as dry, take 
down, and scrape with a blunt knife till clean and 
supple ; this completes the process, and makes a most 
excellent saddle-cover. If, when you kill the sheep, 
you treat the skins in this way, you can get more for 
them from the saddlers than you can for the wool and 
skin disposed of separate!}'. 

Other skins which you desire to cure with the fur 
or hair on, may be treated in the same way. 

RECEIPTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 

New iron should be very gradually heated at first. 
After it has become inured to the heat, it is not as 
likely to crack. 

It is a good plan to put new earthenware into cold 
water, and let it heat gradually until it boils, then 
cool again. Brown earthenware, in particular, may 
be toughened in this way. A handful of rye, or 
wheat bran, thrown in while it is boiling, will pre- 
serve the glazing, so that it will not be destroyed by 
acid or salt. 

Clean a brass kettle, before using it for cooking, 
with salt and vinegar. 

The oftener carpets are shaken, the longer they 
will wear. The dirt that collects under them grinds 
out the threads. 

If you wish to preserve fine teeth, always clean 
them thoroughly after you have eaten your last meal 
at night. 



460 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

Do not wrap knives and forks in woollens ; wrap 
them in good strong paper. Steel is injured by lying 
in woollens. 

Suet keeps good all the year round, if chopped and 
packed down in a stone jar, covered with molasses. 

Barley-straw is the best kind for beds. Dry corn- 
husks, slit in shreds, are better than straw. 

Brass and irons should be cleaned, done up in pa- 
pers, and put in a dry place during the summer. 

When molasses is used for cooking, it is a great 
improvement to boil and skim it before using. It 
takes out the unpleasant raw taste, and makes it 
almost as good as sugar. Where molasses is used 
much for cooking, it is well to prepare one or two 
gallons in this way at a time. 

Never allow ashes to be taken up in wood, or put 
into wood. Always have your inatches and lamp 
ready for use in case of sudden alarm. Have impor- 
tant papers together, where you can lay your hands 
on them at once in case of fire. 

Use hard soap to wash your clothes, and soft to 
wash your floors. Soft soap is so slippery that it 
wastes a good deal in washing clothes. 

It is easy to have a supply of horse-radish all win- 
ter. Have a quantity grated while the root is in per- 
fection, put it in bottles, fill them with vinegar, and 
keep them corked tight. 

Woolen goods should be washed in very hot water, 
and as soon as the article is cleansed, immerse it in 
cold water; let it be wrung, and hung up to dry. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 461 



IMPROVED METHOD OF MAKING COFFEE. 

Put the coffee (after grinding) into a flannel bag; 
tie it closely, allowing sufficient room to boil freely ; 
put it into the boiler, adding as much water as may 
be required. After boiling, it will be perfectly clear 
without the addition of eggs, &c., having likewise the 
advantage of retaining its original flavor and strength 
in greater perfection than when clarified. 

TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE OUT OF RYE. 

The rye is to be well cleaned, and then boiled till 
soft ; but care is to be taken that it does not burst. 
It is afterward to be dried in the sun, or in an oven, 
and then burnt like cofiee ; and, when ground, it is 
fit for use. 



THE END. 



39* 



INDEX 



A CHEAP green Paint.. ..^ Page 447 

Kice and Meat Soup 130 

white Paint 446 

Acidulated Raspberry Syrup 255 

A Cure for the Red Ant 429 

Adds Jar Pickle 145 

A l)ish of Maccaroni 160 

A fine Hash 116 

Plate .Mixture 432 

A Friar's Omelet 230 

Age of Sheep 326 

A good Steam Boiler 274 

A la daube Beef. 115 

A Leg of .Mutton, with Oysters 118 

Almond Pudding 213 

American Shampoo Liquid 322 

An agreeable Beverage for a sick per- 
son 252 

An Antidot* for Poison, Onions. 291 

A new way to make Candles 419 

An excellent Pill for Indigestion 297 

Animal Life, length of 325 

An infallible Remedy for a Cold 298 

Another cheap Syrup 130 

method of Computing Interest... 454 

making good Beer 261 

raising Potatoes 62 

mode of preserving Folates for 

food 65 

way to cultivate the Grape-vine... 69 

to feed Cows 275 

Antidote for Poison by Arsenic 291 

Ants, a cure for Red 429 

A poor .Man's Soup 133 

A Portable Ice-house 401 

Apricot Jelly 236 

Apple Butter 239 

Compote .-. 232 

Custard Pie 224 

dried 224 

green 224 

Dumplings, baked 220 

boiled 220 

Jelly 239 

Molasses 238 

Orchards, planting 81 

or Gooseberry Fool 230 

Pie 226 

Pudding 216 

Water 253 



Apples 89 

dried 412 

preservation of. 409 

A Receipt for making superior Bread. 163 

A Remedy for Arsenic 292 

Arrow-root 247 

Blanc .Mange 228 

Arsenic, Antidote for poison by 291 

a remedy for 292 

Artichokes, to cook.. 155 

to sow 19 

A short way to make old Bread new.. 167 

A simple method of making Soap 417 

Remedy for a Cough 299 

way of preventing Flies from sit- 
ting on Pictures, or any other 

Furniture 430 

A Spanish Steak 112 

Asparagus Soup 132 

to cook 155 

to sow 17 

Asthma, cure for the 300 

A Styptic which will stop the bleeding 

of the largest ves.sels 286 

A successful mode of keeping Sweet 

Potatoes 63 

Attar of Roses 414 

A very rich Pudding, of prime Fruit.. 212 
A Wash to clean Pictures 435 



B.\C0N, to cure, said to be equal to 
the Burlington method of cur- 
ing Hams 99 

Baked Apple Dumplings .'. 220 

Custiird 219 

Indian Pudding 206, 207 

rich 207 

or roast Pig 108 

Salmon, in slices 124 

Baldness, Liquid Compound for the 

cure and prevention of 321 

Balm, to sow 33 

Bannocks 183 

Bathing 281 

Bath Pudding 217 

Batter Cakes 180, 181 

Pudding 214 

Bean, Salad 146 

Beans, Butter, to boil 157 

(463) 



464 



INDEX 



Beans, Snap, Southern mode of boil- 

ing them 157 

to pickle 139,141 

to plant 22 

Bee. cure for the sting of a 287 

Beef, a la diiube 115 

and Pork 97 

Brisket of ll-l 

Essence of. 248 

Frirandeau of. 115 

Gravy Soup 129 

Potted 114 

Rump of. 112 

Soup 128, 129 

Tea 248 

Tomato 115 

to preserve tender and sweet 

throughout the year 102 

Beefsteak Pie 222 

Bee-hive, plan of a Kentucky 404-406 

Beer, another mode of making good... 261 

Corn 264 

Ginger 262, 263 

Hop 260 

Persimmon 264 

Spruce 261 

Tar, for Consumption 262 

Bees, hunting 407 

taking, without destroying the 

hive 407 

Beeswax, to bleach 427 

Beets, to bake 156 

to boil 157 

to pickle 141 

to .';ow 21 

Beverage, an agreeable, for a sick 

person 252 

Beverages 255 

Big Head in Horses 352 

Biscuit Butter 179 

excellent ITS 

Jelly 251 

light 178 

Milk 178 

Naples 196 

Sponge 188 

Sugar 196 

Tea 178 

Bite of a Rattlesnake, Cure for... 287-290 

Viper. Cure for the 287-290 

Bitten, Frost 286 

Blackberry Cordi.il 256 

Syrup 257 

"Wine 250 

Elackin'Z 442 

Black of green Tea Jelly 234 

Bladder, Stone or Gravel in 362 

Blanc Mange 227 

Arrow-root 228 

Carrageen 229 

Quince 228 

Bleeding at the Nose 286 

of the largest vessels, a Styptic 

which will stop the 2R6 

Blind Staggers 349 

Blist.'rs 332 

Block-tin Dish Covers, method for 

cleaning 431 

Blood, cleansing and purifying the.... 307 
to stop 2S5 



Boiled Apple Dumplings 220 

Indian Pudding 208, 214 

Flour 251 

Kump Steaks, with Onion Gravy. 114 

Boiler, a good Ste.am 274 

Bonifiadas or Stiekys 200 

Books, to prevent molding in 435 

Boots and Shoes, Composition for pre- 

.serving 440 

Borecole, to sow 23 

Boston brown Bread 168 

Botts, Remedy for 364, 365 

Bowel Complaints. Cure for 306 

Brand)'. Raspberry 255 

Bran Tea 253 

Bread, a short way to make old new., 167 

a Receipt for making superior 163 

Boston brown.... 168 

brown 167 

Cakes, &c 163 

Corn 170, 171 

Egg 171 

Dyspepsia 168 

Egg 164 

Fritters .„. 183 

Indian Sponge 171 

Jelly 251 

Judson's Corn 170 

light Corn 170 

Mrs. Miller's Receipt for pre- 
mium 164 

Pudding 218 

Pumpkin 169 

Recipe for making good 165 

Rice family 169 

Sauce 150 

Soup, light 250 

to make excellent, without yeast. 166 

to make Potato 168 

Turnip 169 

Yeast for 165 

Brief Hints for Winter 391 

Brisket of Beef 114 

stewed 113 

Britannia Ware, to clean 431 

Broccoli, to cook 159 

to sow 24 

Broken China, Cement for mend- 
ing 432, 433 

Glassware, Cement for mend- 
ing... 432, 433 

Broken-winded Horse 341, 842 

Broth, Vegetable., 249 

Brown Bread 167 

Sugar and Soap Poultice 321 

Browning Steel or Iron 450 

Buckwheat Cakes 181 

Bues, to drive from Vines 61 

Bunns 197 

Burden's excellent Ointment, Re- 
ceipt for making 286 

Burns, Remedy for 294 

Butter, Apple 2.39 

Beans, to boil 157 

Biscuit 179 

Drawn 150 

making 276 

packing 279 

patent 277 

salting 277 



INDEX, 



465 



Cabbage, Early, to sow 26 

from cuttings, raising 27 

preservation of 411 

to cook 159 

to destroy Worms on 28 

to kill Ijice on 28 

to pickle 139, UO 

Cabinet, or Muffin Pudding 211 

Cake, Corn 172 

Klizabeth 200 

fried. 198 

Gingerbread 194 

Indian Meal, Breakfast 172 

Indian Pound 2u0 

Johnny 172,173 

Loaf 197 

Love 200 

Railroad 195 

Rich, small 197 

Soda 199 

Soft, for Tea 195 

Tea. 195 

Another 19(3 

Wafer 199 

Wine 195 

Cakes, Batter 180, 181 

Buckwheat 181 

cheap and excellent 190 

Cider 185 

Coffee 177 

Composition 185 

Plain 185 

Confectioner's Pound 187 

Cream 192 

Tea 176 

Cup 191, 192 

Cream 192 

Election 190 

Flannel 182 

Fruit 189 

Green Corn 181 

Griddle 179, 180 

Griffin Batter 180 

Potato ISO 

Pound 186 

Queen 190 

Rice 178, 188 

Griddle 177 

Johnny 177 

Rye Batter 171 

Scotch 191 

Queen 191 

Silver 190 

Soda 176,177 

Sponge 187 

cheap 187 

Washington 182 

White 190 

Calf 's Head Soup 119 

to make 134 

Calico, to make wash well 4J5 

California Rice Pudding 205 

Calves, cure for Scours in 374 

Diseases of 375 

Feet Jelly 233,252 

Camomile Poultice 321 

Cancer, cure for a, by extracting it ... 310 

cure for 311 

Candles, a new way to make 419 

making dipped 418 



Canker-Worm, the 88 

Capons 398 

Carrageen Blanc Mange 229 

Carrot Poultice 321 

Pudding 217 

Carrots, to boil 157 

to sow 26 

Catsup, cucumber 147 

Pepper 148 

and Meat dressing 148 

Tomato 148 

Cattle, cure for murrain in 374 

diseases and treatment of 366 

distemper in 366 

hoven 372 

King's Oil for curing wounds in . 329 

Salts for 374 

swellings 329 

to cure the mange in 368 

to destroy vermin in 368 

to kill lice on 367, 368 

to relieve choked 372 

Caulitiower, to cook 158 

to sow 25 

Celery, to cook 155 

Sauce, for roasted or boiled fowls. 151 

solid, to sow 28 

vinegar 147 

Cement for grafting 89 

for mending broken China... 432, 433 

Glassware 432, 433 

Japanese, to make 444 

Cheap and excellent Cake 190 

Sponge Cake 187 

Cheese Pudding 212 

Cherries, to dry 412 

Cheshire Pudding 215 

Chicken Panada 249 

Salad, French 120 

Water 249 

Chickens, or fowls to fatten in four or 

five days 397 

to cure the Gapes in 397 

Chilblains, remedy for 294 

Chills and Fever 317 

Chimneys, smokey 438 

to prevent soot from accumula- 
ting in 439 

China. Cement f>r mending broken.432,433 

Chinese method of mending 433 

Chocolate 254 

Cholera, cure for 305 

Morbus, cure for 3U5 

Chronic Diarrhoea, cure for 306 

Sore Eyes, Eyewater for cure of.. 320 

Cider and Wine, mode of refining 259 

Cake 185 

Kerrison's Recipe for 266 

sweet, clear, that will retain its 
fine vinous flavor, and keep good 

a long time 264 

Citron Pudding 213 

to preserve Watermelon 236 

Cleansing and Purifying the Blood.... 307 
Fine Block Tin Dish Cover.s, me- 
thod of 4.31 

Patent Pewter, method of i.. 431 

Clyst.-r 3.32 

Cocoanut Pudding 214 

Codfish, to cook 124 



4:<dQ 



INDEX, 



Coffee, improved method of making 

good 461 

to make good, out of Rye 461 

Jelly 233 

Cold, an infallible remedy for 298 

remedy for 298 

Coleworts. to cook Young 159 

Colic, cure for 306, 307 

in Horses 334 

or Gripes 335 

Coliops, minced 117 

Coloring Flannel 422 

Color, Nankeen 422 

Common Lemonade 268 

Common I'omatum 324 

Rolls 174 

Sauce 149 

Composition Cake 186 

for Razors 436 

for healing wounds in trees 89 

for making common wood resem- 
ble Mahogany 437 

for preserving Boots and Shoes ... 440 

Farmers' Utensils 437 

Harness 440 

improved, of Black Writing Ink . 448 
to defend the roof of a house from 

fire and weather 437 

to render shoes water-tight 441 

useful 438 

Composts, to prepare 14 

Compote Apple 232 

Confectioner's Pound Cake 186 

Consumption, cure for 316 

Constipation, cure for 298 

Cookies, Ginger 194 

Cooking Meat 104 

Vegetables 154 

further directions 155 

Copal Varnish. Japan 443 

Cordial, Blackberry 256 

for weak stomachs 318 

Corn Beer 264 

Corn Bread 170, 171 

Cakes 172 

Hgg Bread 171 

Measuring 450 

Corns, cure for 297 

Cornstalk Sugar, directions for culti- 
vatiug the Cornstalks, and ma- 
king the Sugar 91 

Cotton, method of cleaning 423 

Yarn, to dye a deep blue 419 

Cough, cure for a 299 

simple remedy for a 299 

Cow-Keeping, profits of 271 

Cows, another way to feed 275 

feeding in winter 274 

swelled or snarled udders in 372 

to kill Lice on 366 

Crab-.\pples, preserved 245 

Crackers 173 

Dyspepsia 173 

Graham 174 

Kice 174 

Soda 173 

Sweet 173 

Cracks in the heels or wounds in 

Horses 330 

Cranberry Pie 226 



Cranberry, Preserved 245 

Crimson, to dye 421 

Cream Cake 192 

Cup Cake 192 

for Fruit Pies 230 

Nectar 269 

Sauce, for Venison 152 

Substitute for 401 

Tea Cakes 176 

Cress V'inegar 147 

Croquettes .. 201 

Croup, remedy for 301, 302 

remarks on 301 

Crows, how to kill with New England 

Rum 456 

Scare 456 

to prevent from pulling up Corn. 456 

Crullers 198 

Crumb of Bread Poultice 321 

Crumpets 176 

Cucumber, Catsup 147 

Cucumbers, novel method of Raising. 31 

Preserved 234 

to Pickle 138-141 

to plant 29 

Cultivate the Grape-Yine, another 

way to 69 

Cultivation, manner of Sowing, qual- 
ity of Land, &c., of Ruta-bagas. 45 

Culture of the Grape-Yine 66 

Peach Tree 78 

Cup Cake 191, 192 

Custard 220 

Cure for a Cancer, by extracting it. 310.311 

a Cough 299 

a Felon 311 

a Snake-bite 287 

a Spider-bite 287 

a Wen 310 

Bloody murrain 373 

Bowel complaint 306 

Chills and Fever 317 

Cholera 305 

Morbus 305 

Chronic Diarrhoea 306 

Colic 306,307 

Constipation 298 

Consumption 316 

Corns 297 

Cough in Horses 341 

Deafness 317, 318 

Diarrhoea 305 

Difficulty of Breathing — Infal- 
lible 30 

Dysentery 303 

or Flux 304 

very reliable 304 

Ear-ache 3-0 

Gangrene 296 

Gravel 314 

Heartburn 297 

Hog Cholera 388 

Hydrophobia 290, 291 

Influenza 299 

Jaundice 313 

Murrain 373 

in Cattle 374 

Neuralgia 317 

Palpitation of the Heart 317 

Poisoned Sheep 375 



INDEX. 



467 



Cure for Polypus in the Nose 312 

Prickly Heat 309 

King-worm 307, 308 

or Tetter 308 

K unround 310 

Salt-rheum 309 

Scarlet Fever 315 

Shiugles 307 

Skin Diseases 307 

Sore Throat 302 

Staggers 348 

the^Asthma 300 

Bite of a Rattlesnake 287-290 

Viper 287-290 

Dropsy 312 

Gout 318 

Mange in Hogs 390 

Piles"; 302 

Quinsy in Hogs 390 

Scours in Horses 334 

Sting of a Bee 287 

Wasp 2S7 

Thrush 309 

Whooping-cough 300 

Worms iu Cbiidren 313, 314 

Cure from Poison by Negro Caesar 292 

of Chronic Sore Eyes, Eye-water 

for 320 

of Mange in Dogs 390 

of Sore Eyes. Eye-water for 320 

Curing and Cooking Jleats, general 

directions for 97 

Pork 98 

Curled Cress or Pepper-grass, to sow.. 29 

Currant Jelly 233 

Vt'iue 2.58 

Custard, baked 219 

Cup... 220 

Pie, Apple 224 

dried Apple 223 

green Apple 223 

Plain 219 

Pudding 219 



J).\IRT and Ice-house, plan of. 401 

the 271 

Damaged Grain, to correct 61 

Deafness, cure for 317, 318 

Decanters, to clean 430 

Definitions, Geological 90 

De.ssert. Rice Milk for a 232 

Diarrhoea, cure for 305 

Chronic, cure for.. 306 

Difficulty of Breathing, cure for 302 

Dining Tables, Polish for 437 

Dipped Candles, making 418 

Directions for the cultivation of Wa- 
termelons 59 

for cultivating the Cornstalks, 

and making Sugar therefrom.. 91 
general, for Curing and Cooking 

Meats 97 

Discoloring of the Skin by a bruise, 

to prevent the 296 

Disease of Hogs 387 

Diseases and Treatment of Cattle 366 

of Calves 375 

of Sheep 376 

Disorders of the Eyes 384 



Di.seases of Sheep — Dropsy 384 

Fever ." 376 

Foot-worm 383 

Jaundice 379 

Lungs 378 

Purging 377 

Red Water 382 

Scab 381, 382 

Staggers 380, 381 

Stoppage in the Throat 379 

Stretchers 380 

Sturdiness 380 

Tag 377 

the Rot 385 

Wildfire 383 

Wood Evil 380 

Disorders of the Eyes in Sheep 384 

Dropsy in Sheep 384 

Distemper in Cattle 366 

Dogs, cure of Mange in 390 

to prevent from sucking Eggs.... 398 

Doughnuts. 198 

Drawn Butter 160 

Dried Apple Custard Pie 223 

Apples 412 

Peaches 413 

Pears 412 

Dr. Kitchener's superlative sauce 150 

Drops, Headache 315 

Dropsy, cure for 312 

Drowned, method of restoring life 

to the apparently 284 

Duck, hot. Salad or Salini 121 

to boil a 120 

to hash a 121 

to stew a 120 

Dumplings, baked Apple 220 

boiled Apple 220 

Raspberry 220 

Dy.sentery, cure for, very reliable 304 

infallible cure for 303 

or Flux, cure for So4 

Dyspepsia Bread 168 

Crackers 173 

Ear-ache 320 

Early Cabbage, to sow 26 

Egg Bread 164 

Plant, to sow 32 

Eggs and Poultry 395 

preservation of. 399, 400 

to prevent Dogs from sucking 398 

Election Cake 190 

Elizabeth Cake 200 

English Peas, to plant 39 

Essence of Beef. 248 

Estimating the Weight of Cattle 456 

Excellent Biscuit 178 

Eye, Films on the. 374 

Eyes, weak or inflamed 320 

Eye-water for cure of Sore Eyes 320 

for Chronic Sore Eyes 320 

Farcy 351 

Farmer.', Hints to 61 

Utensils, Composition for pre- 
serving 439 

Feeding Cows in Winter 274 



468 



INDEX 



Felon, cure for a 311 

Fence Posts 452 

Fever and Chills 317 

in !^heep 376 

Fisis. Tomato 241 

Filais in the Kye 374 

Fire, Composition to defend the roof 

of a bouse from 439 

Fish 121 

Bones, I'emedy in case of swal- 
lowing 285 

Ponds 409 

Sauce 152 

to sweeten, that is tainted 103 

Fistula 350 

Flannel Cakes 182 

Coloring 422 

Flaxseed I'ooltice 321 

Fleas, to prevent from infesting beds 

or rooms 421 

Flemish Fashion 132 

I'lies. to destroy 429 

Flint Glass Bottles, to clean 430 

Floating Island 231 

Flour, boiled 251 

Flux or Dysentery, cure for 304 

I'ootworm in ^heep 383 

Force-meat Balls, to make 112 

For Drink during the cure of Poison. 293 

I'orks and Knives, to clean 435 

Founder in Horses 338-340 

Fowls, Fricasse of. 117 

Fowls or Chickens, to fatten in four 

or five days... 397 

French and Italian Pudding 212 

Chicken Salad 120 

Jlilk I'orridge 250 

Muffins 176 

Kolls, l'arkinson'.s Picceipt 174 

Fresh Meat, to keep, in summer 116 

to preserve 116 

Friar's Omelet, a 230 

Fiicandeau of Beef. 115 

]-ii;-asse of Fowls 117 

Fried Cakes 198 

Fritters 183 

Bre,ad 183 

Oyster 184 

Puff 1S3 

Frost-bitten 286 

Fruit 86 

Cake.... 1S9 

Pies, Cream for 230 

Stains, to remove 426 

Trees, management of. 71-73 

Frying Pork 106 

G.^LLS. Saddle 328 

Wind 342 

Gangrene, cure for 296 

Gapes in Chickens, to cure the 397 

Garden Seinl, germination of 15 

vegetation of 16 

to choose the best seed for a 13 

watering... 95 

Garlic Vinegar 147 

GarnisliHS 125 

General directions for curing and cook- 
ing Meats.... 97 



Geological Definitions 90 

Germination of Garden Seed 15 

Gestation 325 

Gherkins, to Pickle 138-141 

to plant 32 

Giblet Soup 133 

Ginger Beer 262, 263 

Cookies 194 

Pudding 213 

Snaps 194,195 

Wine 259 

Gingerbread Cake 194 

Hard Mola.«ses 193 

Soft 194 

Molasses 193 

Sponge 193 

Sugar 193 

Glanders 357 

Glass Stopper, to remove 434 

to remove panes of 434 

ware, Cement for mending bro- 
ken 432,433 

Golden Pippins, to preserve 237 

Goo,«elierry, or Apple Fool 230 

Grafting. Cement for 89 

Graham Crackers 174 

Gourds, to plant 32 

to keep fresh through the year... 410 

remedy against mildew of 71 

Gout, cure for the 318 

Grapes, to Pickle 142 

to Preserve 244 

Grape-Vine, another way to cultivate 

the 69 

on the culture of the 66 

to prune to advantage 70 

Gravel, cure for 314 

in the Hoofs 361 

or Stone in the Bladder 362 

Grease for 'Wheel Axles 450 

Green Apple Custard Pie 223 

Green Corn Cakes 181 

Corn, to preserve for boiling 411 

to preserve sweet 159 

Pudding 206 

Figs, to preserve 240 

Mint Vinciiar 147 

or Black Tea Jelly 234 

Pea Soup 1.34 

Peas tocook 156 

Peas to Preserve 411 

to color 420 

Griddle Cakes 179, 180 

Gripes or Colic 335 

Haik, Germ an Pomade for strengthen- 
ing the 324 

Pomades for beautifying the 324 

Washes for the 323 

Wash for promoting curling of 

the 323 

removing scurf from the 323 

Hamhorough Pickle 101 

Ham. to boil a 106-109 

to boll 109 

to glaze a cold 106 

to stuff 109 

to toast 109 

Hams, to cure 08 



INDEX, 



469 



Hams, to cure, so as to preserve them 

from Fliea 101 

Hard Molasses Gingerbread 193 

Harness, Composition for preserving.. 440 

Hash, a fine 116 

Hashed Meat 116 

Haws or Hooks 350 

Head, Calf's 119 

Pressed 110 

Heartburn, cure for 297 

Heaves in Horses, remedy for the 340 

ll.rring Soup 130 

Hidebound 363 

llit;dion Pickle 14.5 

Hints to Farmers 61 

Hives, taking, without destroying the 

Bees 407 

Hodge-Podge Soup 131 

Hog Cholera, cure for 388 

Hogs, cure for the mange in 390 

Quinsy in 390 

di.seasesof. 366 

to cure swelling in the Throat in. 389 

to destroy vermin in 389 

worms in the Kidneys of 389 

to kill Liceon 366 

Hollow Horn 369 

Homiuy Pudding 206 

Hoof-Ail 371 

Hoofs, Gravel in the 361 

Hooks or Haws 359 

Horn-Ail, or Horn Distemper 369 

Distemper, or Horn-Ail 369 

Hop Beer 260 

Horse, how to judge the age of by his 

teeth 326 

Horse-Kadish, to Pickle 140 

A'inegar 147 

Horsjes, Big Head in 358 

Broken-winded 341,342 

Colic in 8.34 

cracks in the heels or wounds in 330 

cure for Cough in 341 

the scours in 3.34 

Founder in 338-340 

King's Oil, for curing wounds on. 329 

lost appetite in 330, 331 

liniments for the galled backs of. 328 

Malauders on 340 

IMash for 331 

Remedy for Poll-Evil, or Fistula 

in 346 

the Heaves in 340 

SitFa.st on 343 

SoreTongue in 327 

cure for 328 

swellings on 329 

Thumps in 342 

to cure Ring-hoof in 355 

to kill Lice on 366 

to prevent being teased by Flies.. 327 

Hot Duck Salad, or Salini 121 

Hot-beds, toprepare 14 

Hoven Cattle 372 

How to get a tight Ring off a finger... 433 
to kill Crows with New England 

Rum 455 

to Milk 275 

toprepare Printer's Ink 449 

to preserve Quinces whole 241 

40 



Housekeepers, Receipts for 459 

Hunting I?ees 407 

Hydrophobia, cure for 290, 291 

Ice-house and Dairy, plan of. 401 

portable 404 

Iceing for Cake 203 

Iceland Moss 252 

Imperial Lemonade 268 

Pop 263 

Important Di.scovery : or, how to kill 

Crows with N. England Rum... 456 
Improved Composition of black Writ- 
ing Ink 448 

method of making Coffee 461 

Inflamed or Swelled Breasts 319 

or Weak Eyes 320 

Influenza, cure for 299 

Ink, for making red 449 

improved Composition of black 

Writing 448 

how to prepare Printer's 449 

Marking or Durable 447 

Permanent, for marking Linen... 447 

Spots, to remove from Linen 426 

to make black 448 

to prevent molding in 435 

to take out of Linen 426 

Indian Meal Breakfast Cakes 172 

Muffins 172 

Pound Cake 200 

Pudding, baked 206,207 

rich baked 207 

boiled 208 

Sponge Bread 171 

Indigestion, an excellent Pill for 297 

Remedy for 297 

Interest, another method of com- 
puting 454 

to calculate 454 

Irish Potato, to improve the quality 

of the 66 

Potatoes, to boil 157 

Iron-mold, to remove from Linen 425 

or Steel, browning 450 

Island. Floating 231 

Italian and French Pudding 212 

Italienne Sauce 153 

Itch, Remedy for 308 

Jam Raspberry 244 

Japan Copal Varnish 443 

Japanese Cement, to make 444 

Jauffret's mode of manufacturing 

Manure 93 

Jaundice, cure for 313 

in Sheep 379 

Jellies and Preserves 233 

Jelly. Apple 2.39 

Biscuit 251 

Bread 251 

Calves' Feet 233, 252 

Coffee 233 

Currant 233 

of Apricots 236 

Orange 235 

Peach 239 

Pine-apple 243 



470 



INDEX. 



Jelly Quince 242 

Rice 251 

Strawberry 243 

Tea, green or black 234 

Johnny Cake 172, 173 

Judson's Corn Bread 170 

Jumbles 202 

plain 202 

Kail, to sow 33 

Kentucky Beehive, plan of a 404-406 

Kerrison's Kpcipe for Cider 266 

King's Oil, for curing Wounds on 

Horses and Cattle 329 

Kisses 203 

Knives and Forks, to clean 435 

Lampass 358 

Lamp, to prevent the smoking of a... 438 

Lavender, to sow 33 

Leak in a Cask, for stopping a 449 

Leather, to prevent molding in 435 

Jyeeks, to sow 37 

Lemonade 268 

common 268 

Imperial 21 18 

Milk 268 

Lemon peel Water 253 

Lemon Pickle 146 

Pudding 208, 209 

Length of Animal Life 325 

Lettuce, to sow 33 

Lice on Cabbase. to kill 28 

Cattle, to kill 367, 368 

Cow,s to kill 366 

Hogs, to kill 366 

Horses, to kill 366 

Light Biscuit 178 

Bread Soup 2,'iO 

Corn Bread. 170 

Linen, permanent Ink for marking... 447 

to remove Ink Spots from 426 

Iron-mold from 425 

to take Ink out of 426 

Mildew out of 425 

Spots out of 424 

Wine out of 426 

Liniment for the Galled Backs of 

Horses 328 

Liquid Compounds for the cure and 

prevention of Baldness 321 

Loaf Cake 197 

Lobster Pie 222 

Lockjaw 360 

Lost Appetite in Hor.ses 330, 331 

Love Cake 200 

Lungs, Diseases of the, in Sheep 378 

Macaroons 202 

Macraroni, a dish of IfiO 

Mackerel, to boil fresh 125 

to boil in Marinade 125 

Mad-dog. cure for the Bite of a 290 

Mahogany. Composition for making 

common Wood resemble 437 

Maigre Soup 128 

Making Butter 276 



Making dipped Candles 418 

red Ink 449 

Malanders in Horses 340 

Management of Fruit Trees 71-73 

Mange Blauc 227 

Mange Blanc, Arrow-root 228 

Carrageen 229 

Quince 228 

in Dogs 390 

in Hogs, to cure 390 

Mangoes, to make 140 

Manner of sowing, quality of land, 

cultivation. &c.. of Kuta-bagas. 45 
Manure, Jauffret's mode of manu- 
facturing 93 

to prepare 14 

Marguerites 501 

Marking Linen, Permanent Ink for... 447 

or Durable Ink 448 

Marmalade. Orange 235 

Marrow Pomatum 324 

Mash for Horses 331 

Mattrass, to make, that will not sink 

in the middle 428 

Mead 260 

Measuring Corn 453 

Meat, Cooking 104 

Hashed 116 

to preserve fresh for a few days.. 102 

to restore tainted 103 

to sweeten, that is tainted 103 

Medical Receipts 281 

Medicine Stains from Silver, to re- 
move 431 

Mending broken China, Cement 

for 432, 433 

broken Glassware, Cement for, 432, 433 

China, Chinese method of. 433 

Metheglin 260 

Method for cleaning Block Tin Dish 

Covers, &c 431 

for cleaning Patent Pewter, &c... 431 

improved, of making Coffee 461 

of cleaning Cotton 423 

Silk 423 

Woolen 423 

rearing Turkeys 393, 394 

restoring life to the apparently 

drowned 284 

Milk Biscuit 178 

how to 275 

Lemonade 268 

Porridge 250 

French 260 

preserving 400 

Rice, for a dessert 232 

Toast 173 

to keep sweet 275 

Minced Collops 117 

Mince Pie 224 

Minute Pudding 210 

Miscellaneous Keceipts 393 

Mixture, a fine Plate 432 

Mock Turtle 127 

A'eni.son 119 

Mode of preserving Potatoes for food. 65 
of raising Onions in the town of 

Wetherstield, Connecticut 35 

of refining Wine 259 

Cider 259 



INDEX. 



471 



Ttlolapses, Apple 238 

Pudding' 214 

Moldinj;: in Books, to prevent 435 

in Ink. to prevent 436 

in Leather, to prevent 435 

in I'aste. to prevent 435 

jNIoss, Ireland 252 

Moths, to keep off 426 

Mrs. Cusliinjj's Sweet Potato Rolls 174 

Mrs. Miller's Itcceipt for making pre- 
mium Bread 164 

Muffins. French 176 

Indian 172 

or Cabinet Pudding 211 

Soft 175 

MuUaga tawny Soup 132 

Milled Wine 254 

Murrain, Bloody, cure for 373 

cure for 373 

in Cattle, cure for 374 

Mustard for the table 146 

to .sow 34 

Mutton, a Leg of, with Oysters 118 

Pie 222 

Tea 248 

Nails, to keep from rusting 450 

Nankeen color 422 

Naples Biscuit 196 

Nasturtions, to pickle... 141 

to sow 34 

Nectar, Cream 269 

Neuralgia 317 

New England Spinach, to sow 42 

way to make Candles 419 

Nonpareil Sauce 153 

Norfolk Pudding 219 

No.se. Bleeding at the 286 

Novel method of raising Cucumbers.. 31 



Observations on the culture of the 

Strawberry 51 

Oil, King's, for curing Wounds on 

Horses and Cattle 329 

Hheumatic 302, 303 

Ointment, Burden's excellent 286 

Okra Suup 135 

to sow 35 

Omelet, a Friar's 2."0 

Onions, an antidote for Poison 291 

mode of raising, in the town of 

Wether.sfield, Connecticut 35 

to boil 160 

to pickle 141 

Onion Vinegar 147 

On preparing Seed Corn 95 

On the culture of the Grape-vine 66 

Peach Tree 78 

Opodeldoc 287 

Orangeade or Sherbet 269 

Orange Jelly 235 

Marmalade 235 

Preserves 234 

Pudding 209 

Syrup 268 

Wine 257 

Oxford Pudding 211 

Sausages Ill 



Oyster Fritters 184 

Soup. 127 

Another 128 

to pickle 137 

Packing Butter 279 

Paint, a cheap Green 447 

White 446 

that is not varnished, to clean.... 434 

to make a cheap 445, 446 

Palpitation of the Ueart 317 

Panada 2-50 

Chicken 249 

Pancakes of Rice 180 

to make 180 

Parkinson's Receipt for making French 

Rolls 114 

Parsley, to sow 38 

Parsnips, to boil 157 

to sow 37 

Parsnip Wine 259 

Paste, to make 434 

to prevent molding in 435 

Patent Butter 277 

Pewter. &.C., method for cleaning. 431 

Peaches, Dried 413 

to keep fresh through the year... 410 

to Pickle 143 

Peach Jelly 239 

Sweet-meats 240 

Tree, on the culture of the 78 

Worm 87 

Pearl Barley as a substitute for Rice. 100 

Pears, Dried 412 

Pea Soup 133 

Green 134 

Peas, English, to plant 39 

Pepper Catsup 148 

and Meat Dressing 148 

Gras.s, or Curled Cress, to sow 29 

Peppers, to sow 39 

Permanent Ink for marking Linen... 447 

Perry 267 

Persimmon Beer 264 

Pickle, Adds Jar 145 

Ilamliorough 101 

Higdion 145 

Lemon 146 

Pickled Beets 141 

Pickles and Sauces 137 

Sweet 143 

Pictures, a wash to clean 435 

Pie, Apple 226 

Cu.stard 224 

Beefsteak 222 

Cranberry 226 

Dried Apple I ustard 223 

Green Apple Custard 223 

Lemon 224 

Lobster 222 

Mince 224 

Mutton 222 

Plant, or Rhubarb, to sow 40 

Pumpkin 225, 226 

Potato Custard 223 

Red Sugar-Beet 224 

Rhubarb 226 

Sweet Potato 227 

Custard 223 



472 



INDEX, 



Pie, Tomato 227 

Veal 221 

Pies, Puddings, &c 204 

Pi':, P.oast or Baked lOS 

Troughs 452 

Piles, cure for the 302 

Pine-Apple Jelly 243 

Preserved 246 

Pink, to Dye..... 422 

Pins, Remedy in cufn of swallowing... 285 

Pippins, to preserve Golden 237 

Piquante Sauce 149 

Plain Baked Pudding 215 

Composition Cake 185 

Custard 219 

Jumbles 202 

Pl:\n of a Kentucky Bee-Hive 404-406 

of an Ice-House and Dairy 401 

Planting Apple Orchards 81 

Plants, Soap-suds for watering 89 

Plaster. Strengthening., 319 

Plated Ware, to clean 430 

Plate Mixture, a fine 432 

Plugging Trees 87 

Plum Fudding 218 

Plums, to keep fresh through the 

year 410 

to pre.«erve in a fresh state 410 

Poison by Arsenic. Antidote for 291 

cure from, by Negro Caesar 292 

for drink during the cure of. 293 

Onions, an Antidote for 291 

Poi.soned, symptoms attending such 

as are 293 

Polish for Dining Tables 437 

Polishing Wood 436 

Poll-Kvil, or Fistula in Hor.ses, rem- 
edy for .'.■ 346 

I'olypus in the Nose, cure for 312 

Pomatum, Common 324 

Jlarrow 324 

Hose .324 

Ponds, Fish 409 

Pop, Imperial 263 

Pork and Beef 97 

Curing 98 

Frying 106 

Porridu'e. French Milk 2o0 

Milk 250 

Portable Ice-House 404 

I'ortable Soups 131 

Posts, Fence 452 

Potato Cake 189 

Custard Pie 223 

Irish, to improve the quality of 

the 66 

Pudding 212, 213 

Potatoes, another method of raising... 62 

Minced with Beef. 113 

Preserving Irish 64 

to plant 62 

Potted Beef 114 

Poultices 321 

Brown Sugar and Soap 321 

Camomile 321 

Carrot 321 

Crumb of Brend 321 

Flax.seed 321 

for Swellings ;;nd Sores 321 

Salad Leaves 321 



Poultice, Stimulating 321 

Poultry and Eggs 395 

Pound Cake 186 

Confectioners' 186 

Indian 200 

Premium Bread, Mrs. Miller's Receipt 

for making 164 

Preparations for the Sick 247 

Preparing Seed Corn 95 

Preservation of Apples 409 

of Eggs 399, 400 

Pi-eserved Crab Apples 245 

Cranberries 245 

Cucumbers 234 

Pine Apple 246 

Preserves and Jellies 233 

Orange ^34 

Quince 242 

to clarify Sugar for 246 

Preserving Boots, Composition for 440 

Farmers' Utensils, Composition 

for 439 

Harness, Composition for 440 

Irish Potatoes 64 

Milk 400 

Potatoes for food, another mode of 65 

Shoes. Composition for 440 

Watermelon with the pulp 236 

Pressed Head 110 

Preventive of Scarlet Fever 316 

Prickly Heat, cure for 309 

Printer's Ink, how to prepare 449 

Profits of Cow-keeping 271 

Pudding, a Cheese 212 

Almond 213 

Apple 216 

baked Indian 206, 207 

rich 207 

Bath 217 

Batter 214 

boiled 214 

Indian 208 

Broad 218 

California 205 

Carrot 217 

Cheshire 215 

Citron 213 

Cocoanut 214 

Custard 219 

French and Italian 212 

Ginger 213 

Green Corn 206 

Hominy 206 

Lemon". 208, 209 

Minute 210 

Molas.ses 214 

Muffin or Cabinet 211 

Norfolk 219 

Oranse 209 

Oxford 211 

plain baked 215 

Plum 218 

Potato 213 

Pumpkin 216 

Quaking 217 

Kice 204, 205 

rich Bread and Butter 218 

Pules to be ob.served in making.. 204 

Sweet Potato 212 

Swiss 211 



INDEX. 



473 



Pudding, Tapioca 215 

Transparent 215 

Turkey 210 

very rich, of prime fruit 212 

Virginia Chicken 216 

Yorkshire 209 

Puddings. Pies, &c 20-t 

Pu£f Fritters 183 

Puffs, Rice 199 

Pumpkin Bread 169 

Pie 225, 226 

Pudding 216 

Pumpkins, to plant 56 

to preserve in a fresh state 411 

Punch 269 

Purging in Sheep 377 

Purifying and Cleansing the Blood.... 307 

Water, simple means of. 427 

Purlow, to make 160 

Purple Ugg Plant or Guinea Squash.. 158 
Putrid Sore Throat 302 

Quaking Pudding 217 

Quality of land, manner of sowing. 

cultivation, Ac. of Kuta-bagas. 45 

Queen Cake '. 190 

Queen's Sauce 152 

Quince Blanc Mange 228 

Jelly 242 

Preserves 242 

Quinces, how to preserve whole 241 

Quin.sy in Hogs, cure for 390 

RAMsnES, to sow 40 

Ratlish Pods 141 

Railroad Cake 195 

Raising Cabbage from cuttings 27 

Raspberry Brandy 255 

Syrup, acidulated 255 

Vinegar 269 

Rats, to destroy 428, 429 

Rattlesnake, cure for the Bite of 

the 287-290 

Razors, Composition for 436 

Rearing Turkeys, method of 393, 394 

Receii)t, Mrs. Miller's, for making 

premium Bread 164 

Receipts for Housekeepers 459 

Medical 281 

Miscellaneous 393 

Veteiinary 325 

r.ecipe for making good Bread 165 

Red .^nts, a cure for the 429 

Ink, for making 449 

Mixture for Summer Complaint.. 306 

to color 420 

to dye with lied wood 421 

Water in Sheep 382 

Remarks on Croup 301 

on Gardening 96 

Remedv against Mildew of Grapes 71 

for Burns 294 

Chilblains 294 

Colds 298 

Croup.. 301, 302 

destroying the Turnip Fly.... 44 

Indigestion 297 

Itch 308 

40* 



Remedy for Rheumatism 303 

for Scalds 294 

for Tooth-ache ; 296 

forthelJotts 364, 365 

for the Heaves in Horses 340 

for the Poll Evil or Fistula in 

Horses 346 

in case of swallowing Fish Bones. 285 

Pins 285 

sharp Bones 285 

Rheumatic Oil 302, 303 

Rheumatism, Remedy for.. 303 

Rhubarb or Pie Plant, to sow 40 

Pie 226 

Rice Cake 178, 188 

Crackers 174 

family Bread 169 

Griddle Cakes 177 

Johnny Cakes 177 

Pancakes 180 

Pudding 204, 205 

California 205 

Puffs 199 

Rich small Cakes 197 

Ring Bone 354 

Hoofin Horses, to cure 355 

tight, to get off a Finger 433 

Worm, cure for 307, 308 

or Tetter, cure for 308 

Roacbe.s, to destroy 430 

Roast or baked Pig 108 

Venison 118 

Rolls 175 

common 174 

French, Parkinson's Receipt for.. 174 

Mrs. Cushiiig's Sweet Potato 174 

Rosemary, to sow 33 

Rose Pomatum 324 

Roses, Attar of. 414 

Rue, to sow 33 

Rules to be observed in making Pud- 
ding 204 

Rump of Beef. 112 

Steaks boiled, with Onion Gravy. 116 

Runround, cure for a 310 

Rusk 197 

Ruta-baga, Qxiality of Land, manner 

of Sowing, Cultivation, &c 45 

Rye Batter Cakes .- 171 

Rye, to make good Coffee out of 461 

Saddle Galls 328 

Sage, to sow 33 

Sago 247 

Sailor's Sauce 153 

Salad Bean 146 

Salad Leaf Poultice 321 

Salads, Washing 162 

Salini, or Hot Duck Salad 121 

Salmon baked in slices 124 

i'resh, to bake whole 123 

Steaks 123 

to boil Fresh 122 

Salsifv, or Vegetable Oyster, to sow.... 41 

Salting Butter 277 

Salt for Cattle 374 

Salt Rheum, cure for 309 

Salve and Wash for Ulcers 310 

Sandwiches 117 



47^ 



INDEX. 



Sash, Windows, to keep up 436 

Sauce, Bread 150 

Celery, for roasted or boiled 

Fowls 151 

Common 149 

Cream, for Venison 152 

Dr. Kitchener's superlative 100 

Fish 152 

for Veal 149 

Jtalienne 153 

Nonpareil 153 

Piquante 149 

Queen's 152 

Sailors 153 

Tomato 151 

Sausages 110, 111 

Oxford HI 

to make .' 110 

Savory, Summer, to sow 43 

Scab in Sheep 381, 3S2 

Scalds, Remedy for 294 

Scare-Crows 456 

Scarlet Fever, cure for 315 

Preventive of 316 

Scotch Cake 191 

Cake, Queen 191 

Scours in Calves, cure for 374 

in Horses, cure for 334 

Scratches 344 

Seed Corn, on preparing 95 

Seeds, to save 17 

Seed-Warts, to cure 297 

Shallots, to plant 41 

Shampoo Liquid, American 322 

Sharp Bones, Remedy in case of swal- 
lowing; 285 

Sheep, age of 326 

Cure for Poisoned 375 

Diseases of 376 

Disorders of the Eyes 384 

Dropsy 384 

Fever 376 

Foot-Worm 3S3 

Jaundice 319 

Lungs 378 

Purging 377 

Ked Water 382 

Scab 381, 3S2 

Staggers 380,381 

Stoppage in the Throat 379 

Stretchers 380 

Sturdiness 380 

Tag 377 

the Rot 385 

Wildfire 383 

Wood Evil 380 

Sheep-skins, to cure, with the Wool 

on 468 

Tar for 387 

Sherbet, or Orangeade 269 

Shingles, cure for 307 

Shoat, to barbacue a — a Southern 

dish 108 

Shoes and Boots, composition for pre- 
serving 440 

Composition to render Water- 

tiglit 441 

Shrunken Sinew, or Stiff Joint 315 

Silk, method of Cleaning 423 

Stockings, to clean 423 



Silk, to take Spots out of. 424 

to take Stains out of 424 

to wash 425 

Silver Cake 190 

to remove Medicine Stains from .. 431 

Ware, to clean 430 

Simple means of purifying Water 427 

method of making Soaps 417 

Sit Fast on Horses 343 

Skin Diseases, cure for 307 

Small Melons, to Pickle 139 

Smoking of a Lamp, to prevent the... 438 

Smoky Chimneys 438 

Snake Bite, cure for a 287 

Snap Beans. Southern mode of boil- 
ing them 157 

Snaps, Ginger 194, 195 

Soap and Sugar Poultice 321 

Cold, to make 416 

Hard, to make 416 

simple method of making 417 

Suds, for watering Plants .. 89 

Soda Cakes 176, 177-199 

Crackers 173 

for Washing 414 

Soft Cake for Tea 195 

Gingerbread 193 

Molasses 194 

JluOins 175 

Soap, to make 415 

Solid Celery, to sow 28 

Sore Eyes, Eye-water for the cure of.. 320 
Chronic, Eye-water for the 

cure of 320 

Throat, cure for 302 

Putrid 302 

Tongue in Horse.s, cure for. ...327, 328 

Sores and Swellings, Poultice for 321 

Soups 126 

Soup, a cheap Rice and Meat 130 

a Poor Man's 133 

Asparagus 132 

Beef 128, 129 

Gravy 129 

Calf's Head, to make 134 

Flemish Fashion 132 

Giblet '. 1.33 

Herring 130 

Hodge-Podge 131 

Light Bread 250 

Maigre 128 

.Mock Turtle 127 

Mullaga-tawny 132 

Okra 135 

Oyster 127 

another 128 

Pea 133 

Green 134 

Portable 131 

Turtle 126 

Veal Gravy 130 

Sour-Krout, to Pickle 139 

Souse 109 

Sowing Seed 15 

Spavin , 356 

Spiced Tomatoes 144 

Vinegar, for pickles generally 146 

Spider Bite, cure for a 287 

Spinach, New England, to sow 42 

to cook 155 



IND EX. 



475 



Spinach, to sow 42 

Splint 355 

Spouse Biscuit 1S8 

Cake 187 

Ginsjerbread 193 

Spring Turnip.s, to sow 43 

Sprouts and Coleworta, young, to 

cooli 159 

Spruce Beer 261 

Squashes, Summer-bush, to plant 67 

to plant 57 

AVinter or late Running, to plant 58 

Staggers, Blind 349 

cure for ... 348 

in Sheep 380, 381 

Starch 414 

Steak, a Spanish 112 

Beef, Pie 222 

with Vegetables, a 112 

Steaks. Rump, boiled, with Onion 

Gravy 114 

Salmon 123 

Venison 118 

Steel or Iron, browning- 450 

Stewed Brisket of Beef 113 

Stickys or Bonifiadas 200 

Stiff Joint or Shrunken Sinew 315 

Stimulating Poultice 321 

Stoppage in the Throat in Sheep 379 

Stopping a Leak in a Cask 449 

Stone or Gravel in the Bladder 361 

Strains 353 

Strawberries, Observations on the cul- 
ture of the 51 

to plant 49 

to preserve whole 243 

Strawberry Jelly 243 

Strengthening Plaster 319 

Stretchers in Sheep 380 

String Halt 356 

Sturdiness in Sheep .380 

Sturgeon, to boil 125 

Substitute for Cream 401 

Sugar and Soap Poultice 321 

Biscuit 196 

Gingerbread 193 

Summer-bush Squash, to plant 57 

Summer Complaint, Red Mixture for, 306 

Savorj', to sow 43 

Sweet, clear Cider, that will retain its 
fine, vinous flavor, and keep 

good a long time 264 

Crackers 173 

Pickles 143 

Potato Custard Pie 223 

Potatoes, a successful mode of 

keeping 63 

Pie 227 

Pudding 212 

Rolls, Mrs. Cushing's 174 

Sweetmeats, Peach 240 

Swelled or Inflamed Breasts, cure for. 319 

or Snarled Udders in Cows 372 

Swellings and Sores, Poultice for 321 

on Horses and Cattle 329 

Swinney. to cure 329, 330 

Swiss Pudding 211 

Syllabub, Whip 229 

Symptoms attending such as are poi- 
soned. 293 



Syrup, acidulated Raspberry 255 

Blackberry 257 

Orange 258 



Table for distinguishing between the 
Colic or Gripes and Inflamma- 
tion of the Bowels in Horses..,. 335 

Tables, Dining, Polish for ... 437 

Tag in Sheep 377 

Tainted Meat, to restore 103 

Tansey, to sow 33 

Tar Beer, for Consumption 262 

for Sheep 387 

Tapioca 247 

Pudding 215 

Tea Biscuit 178 

Beef 248 

Bran 253 

Cake 195 

Another 196 

Mutton 253 

Tetter or Ring-worm, cure for ?08 

The Canker-worm 88 

Dairy 271 

Rot in Sheep 385 

time required to digest dififerent 

articles of food 283 

Thrush, a cure for 309 

Thumps in Horses 342 

Thvme, to sow 33 

Toast, Milk 173 

Water 253 

To bake Beets 156 

fresh Salmon whole 123 

To barbae ue a Shoat — a Southern 

dish 108 

To bleach Beeswax 427 

To boil a Duck 120 

a Ilam 106 

Beets 157 

Butter Beans 157 

Carrots 157 

fresh Mackerel 125 

Salmon 122 

Ham 109 

Irish Potatoes 157 

Mackerel in Marinade 125 

Onions 160 

Parsnips 157 

Sturgeon , 125 

Turnips 157 

To broil Ham 109 

To calculate Interest 454 

To choose the best soil for a Garden... 13 

To clarify Sugar for Preserves 246 

To clean Britannia Ware 431 

Flint Glass Bottles 430 

Decanters 430 

Knives and Forks 4.35 

Silk Stockings 423 

Silver and Plated Ware 480 

To color Green 420 

Red 420 

Yellow. 422 

To cook Artichokes 155 

Asparagus 155 

Broccoli 159 

I Cabbage 159 

1 Cauliflower 158 



476 



INDEX, 



To cook Celery 155 

Codfish 12-1 

Green Peas 156 

Purple Egg Plant or Guinea 

Squash 158 

Spinach 165 

Vegetable Oyster or Salsify 161 

Young Coleworts and Sprouts 159 

To correct Damaged Grain 61 

To cure Bacon — said to be equal to 
the Burlington method of cur- 
ing Hams 99 

Hams 98 

so as to preserve them from 

i'lies 101 

Ring Hoof in Horses 355 

Seed Warts 297 

Sheep Skins with the wool on 458 

Swellingof the Throat in Hogs... 389 

Swinney 329, 330 

the Gapes in Chickens 397 

the Mange in Cattle 368 

To destroy Flies 429 

Rats. 428, 429 

Roaches 4M0 

Vermin on Cattle SfiS 

on Hogs 389 

Worms in the Kidneys of Hogs... 28 

To drive Bugs from Vines 61 

To dry Cherries 416 

To dye Cotton Yarn a deep Blue 417 

Crimson 421 

Red with Redwood 421 

Pink 422 

To extract a Glass Stopper 434 

To fatten Fowls or Chickens in four 

or five days 397 

To get a tight Ring off a finger 434 

To glaze a cold Ham 106 

To hash a Duck 121 

To improve the quality of the Irish 

Potato 66 

To judge the Age of a Horse by his 

teeth 326 

To keep fresh Meat in Summer 116 

Fruit fresh through the year 410 

Milk sweet 275 

off Moths 426 

Peaches fresh through the year... 410 

Plums fresh through the year 410 

up Sash Windows 436 

To kill Lice on Cabbage 28 

on Cattle 367, 368 

on Cows 366 

on Hogs 366 

on Horses 366 

Wasps or Yellow Jackets 455 

To make a beautiful and lasting White- 
wash 444 

a brilliant Stucco Whitewash for 

buildings, inside or out 445 

a cbeap Paint or Whitewa.sh 446 

a Mattrass that will not sink in 

the middle 428 

Calfs Head Soup.... 134 

Calico Wash well 425 

cold Soap 416 

excellent Bread without yeast.... 166 

Force Meat Balls 112 

good Coffee out of liye 461 



To make hard Soap 416 

Japanese Cement or Rice Glue.... 444 

IMangoes 140 

Pancakes 182 

Paste 434 

Potato Bread 168 

Purlow 160 

Sausages 110 

soft Soap. 415 

Turnip Bread 169 

Tomato Beef 115 

Cat.sup 148 

Figs 241 

Pie 227 

Sauce 151 

Tomatoes 144 

for winter use 162 

spiced 144 

to pickle 144 

to preserve 241 

to preserve in a fresh state 412 

to sow 56 

Tooth-ache. Remedy for 296 

To pickle Beans 139-141 

Beets 141 

Cabbage 139, 140 

Cucumbers 138, 1.39-141 

Gherkins 138-141 

Grapes 142 

Horse-Kadish 140 

Nasturtions 141 

Onions 141 

Oysters 137 

Peaches 143 

Radish Pods 141 

Small Melons 139 

Sour-Krout 139 

Tomatoes 144 

Walnuts 137 

To plant Beans 22 

Cucumbers 29 

Gherkins 32 

Gourds 32 

Okra 35 

Potatoes 62 

Pumpkins 56 

Shallots 41 

Squashes 67 

Strawberries 49 

Summer-bean Squashes 57 

Winter, or late Running Squash.. 58 

To prepare Composts 14 

Hut-beds 14 

Manures 14 

To preserve Beef tender and sweet 

throughout the year 102 

Citron Watermelon 236 

Fresh Meat 116 

Green Corn for boiling 411 

sweet 159 

Figs 240 

Peas 411 

Golden Pippins 237 

Grapes 244 

in a fresh state 410 

Meat fresh for a few days 102 

Nails from rusting inO 

Plums in a fresh state 410 

Pumpkins in a fresh state 411 

Quinces whole 241 



INDEX, 



477 



To preserve Raspberries 244 

Strawberries whole 243 

Tomatoes 241 

in a fresh state 412 

To prevent Crows from pulling up 

Corn 456 

Dogs from sucking Eggs 398 

Fleas infesting rooms or beds 429 

Horses being teased by Flies 327 

molding in liooks 435 

in Ink 435 

in Paste 435 

Leather 435 

Soot from accumulating in chim- 
neys 439 

the discoloring of the skin by a 

bruise 296 

the smoking of a Lamp 438 

To prune Grape-Vines to advantage... 70 

To save Seeds 17 

To remove Fruit Stains from Linen... 426 

Ink spots from Linen 426 

Iron molds from Linen 425 

Medicine stains from Silver 431 

Panes of Glass 434 

To restore tainted Meat 103 

To roast Venison 118 

To sow Artichokes 19 

Asparagus 17 

Balm 33 

Beets 21 

Borecole 23 

Broccoli 24 

Carrots 26 

Cauliflowers 25 

Curled Cress, or Pepper Grass .... 29 

Early Cabbage 26 

Egg Plants 32 

Kail 33 

Lavender 33 

Leeks 37 

Lettuce 33 

Mustard 34 

Masturtions 34 

New England Spinach 42 

Parfley 38 

Parsnips 37 

Peppers 39 

Radishes 40 

Rhubarb, or Pie Plant 40 

Rosemary 33 

Rue 33 

Sage 33 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster 41 

Solid Celery 28 

Spinach 42 

Spring Turnips. 43 

Summer Savory 43 

Tansy 33 

Tomatoes 56 

To stew a Duck 120 

To stop Blood 285 

Vomiting 297 

To stuff Ham 109 

To sweeten Fish that is tainted 103 

Meat that is tainted 103 

To take Ink out of Linen 426 

Mildew (.utof Linen 425 

Spots out of Silk 424 

Spots out of Linen 424 



To take Wine out of Linen 426 

To toast Ham 109 

To wash Silk 425 

Transparent Pudding 215 

Treatment and Diseases of Cattle 366 

Tripe 231 

Troughs, Pig 452 

Turkey Pudding 210 

Turkeys, method of rearing 393, 394 

Turnip Fly, Remedy for destroying 

the '. 44 

Spring, to sow 43 

Turnips, to cook 157 

Turtle Soup 126 

Udders in Cows, Swelled or Snarled.. .372 

Ulcers, Salve for 310 

Wash for 310 

Useful Composition 438 

Varnish, Japan Copal 443 

Veal Gravy Soup 130 

Minced with Potatoes 113 

Pie 221 

Sauce 149 

Vegetable Broth 249 

Oyster or Salsify, to cook 161 

to sow 41 

Vegetables 154 

cooking 154 

further Directions for 155 

Vegetation of Garden Seed 16 

Venison 118 

Mock 119 

Steaks 118 

to roast 118 

Vermin, to destroy in Cattle 368 

to destroy in Hogs 389 

Veterinary Receipts 325 

Virginia Chicken Pudding 216 

Vinegar 413 

Celery 147 

Cress 147 

Garlic I47 

Green Mint 147 

Horse-Radish 147 

Onion 147 

Raspberry 270 

Spiced, for pickles generally 146 

Viper, cure for the Bite of the 287-290 

Wafer Cakes 199 

Wafers 184 

Waffles 184 

Walnuts, to pickle 137 

Wash and Salve for Ulcers 310 

for promoting the Curling of the 

Hair 323 

for removing Scurf 323 

to clean Pictures 435 

Washes for the Hair 323 

Washing Salads 162 

Soda, for 413 

Washington Cake 182 

Wasp, cure for the Sting of a 287 

or Yellow Jackets, to kill 455 



478 



INDEX. 



Water, Apple 253 

Chicken 249 

Lemon-peel 253 

Toast 253 

Yellow, in Horses 363 

Watering Gardens 95 

Watermelon, Citron, to preserve 236 

directions for the Cultivation of... 59 

Preserving with the pulp 236 

Weak or Inflamed Kyes, cure for 3'20 

Stomach.s, Cordial for 318 

Weather. Compo.sition to defend the 

roof of a house from the 437 

Weight of Cattle, estimating the 456 

Wen, cure for a 310 

Wheel Axles, Grease for 450 

Whey, Wine 253 

Rennet 234 

Whip Syllabub 229 

M hite Cake 190 

Paint, a cheap 446 

Whitewash, to make a beautiful and 

lasting 444 

to make a cheap 445, 446 

Whooping Cough, cure for 300 

Wildfire in Sheep 383 

Wind Galls 342 

Windows, to keep up Sash 436 

M ine and Cider, mode of refining 259 

Blackberry 256 



Wine, Cake 195 

Currant 258 

Ginger 259 

Mulled 254 

Orange 257 

Parsnip 259 

to take out of I,ineu 426 

Woolen 426 

Whey 253 

Winter, Brief Hints for 391 

or late Running Squa.shes 58 

Wood Kvil in Sheep'". 380 

Polishing 436 

Woolen, method of cleaning 423 

to take Ink out of 426 

Wine out of 426 

Worms, cure for 314 

in Children, cure for 313 

to destroy iu the Kidneys of 
Hogs 389 

Wounds in Trees, Composition for 

healing 89 

Yeast for Bread 165 

Yellow Jackets or Wasps, to kill 465 

to dye 422 

Water in Horses 363 

Yorkshire Pudding 209 

Young Coleworts and Sprouts, to cook, 159 



THE END. 




£ C 












o< ^ ^ ; , -b 0^ - - ' -n^ 

"^ >^ -^ ; ^"^^ ^, / 



■ - , ^- '^ 

^^ 'O^ « ., ^ •■' >SS^ ^ '' , »^ ,0" 



■^^. •V"'^^ oH -7*^ 



W i-f -i ^ "P aA 



^1 r\\ 



O 0' -" > O 






^^A 


/ 




x^e.. 








% 






"''■i^ii^y'iSh'' \ 



^. <^ ^>' 






^-PL 



'.r'c^ 



o 0^ 






.^^' 



v^^ -^^^ 






0> -''ci- 






'.. v*^ 



'^^ 



o 0' 



■ V 



.^^ ^-^ 



.:-«> N 



.\0 ^x 






"^,. c^' 



Cy^ 



o 0' 



