


^wvc^ 









■JB^M&iM 



w«?jvyy,* 



iuVCMy> 



&&$ 



J LIBRARY -OF CONGRESS.? 

k ap . i5Jjl*im !° I 

# ~ — / 

f UNITED STATES OP AMERICA, f 









^t wjjv; 



mm 









V^vy, 



ty^V 






iiireW^a 



V z*o, 









yi^p 









rz<? 



HOW TO 'COOK: 



AND 



HOW TO CARVE. 

GIVING PLAIN AND EASILY UNDERSTOOD 
DIRECTIONS FOR 

Preparing, Cooking & Serving, 

WITH THE GREATEST ECONOMY. 

EVERY KIND OF DISH ; 

FROM THE SIMPLEST TO THE MOST DIFFICULT, 

AL30 

A 

/,- W MOW TO CARVE 
ALL KINDS OF MEAT, POULTRY, 

GAME AND FISH. 

V 

NEW YORK : 
FKEDEK1C A. BEABY, 

No. 126 Nassau-Street, 



c 



^ 

^ 



s<v 



Mta 



HOW TO COOK, 



AND 



HOW TO CARVE. 



This Volume has been selected and arranged with much care, and 
a well-directed attention to economy ; it is the result of a long ex- 
perience, and will be found, on inspection, to contain, ail that can be 
esteemed essential for the tables of the affluent or those persons of 
moderate incomes. 

It has been the author's object to give receipts which shall enable 
any one to produce excellent and even high-class dishes, of the ut- 
most variety and nutritive quality, at considerably less cost than the 
old methods of Cookery daily occasion. 

It will be sometimes found in the body of the work, that there are 
several receipts for the production of one result ; wherever this is 
the case, each receipt presents some feature to make the change of 
flavor perceptible, and yet, in effect, equally palatable. Tastes, with- 
out being false, vary greatly,— so should made dishes, to meet the 
difficulty 

A kitchen should always be well furnished ; there is no necessity 
that it should be profusely so, but there shonld be sufficiency of every- 
thing which can aid the cook in properly preparing the food entrust- 
ed to her care. And when this important point has been realized, 
cleanliness in every article used should be scrupulously observed ; no 
utensil should be suffered to be put away dirty, it not only injures the 
article itself materially, but prevents its readiness for use on any sud- 
den occasion. No good cook or servant would be guilty of such an 
act ; those who are, do so either from laziness or want of system, or 
a nature naturally dirty. A servant prone to this vice should never 
be retained; it is better and easier to change frequently until the mis- 
tress is suited, however unpleasant these changes may prove, than 
Quixotically attempt to cure a person of this description. Clean- 
liness is the most essential ingredient in the art of cooking, and 
should inviolably be maintained in the kitchen. 



HOW TO COOK, 



SOUPS. 



MEAT SOUPS. 

No dish,, thai comes to table, gives such general satisfaction as -welt 
prepared soup ; let the appetite be vigorous or refined, an excellent 
soup will invariably prove grateful to it ; therefore, it should be the 
duty of the cook constantly to be in a position to produce it at a 
short notice. 

There should always be plenty of dried herbs in the store closet ; 
these may be purchased chiefly in quantities at the beginning of au- 
tumn, Of any market-gardener, and kept at hand, " Everything should 
have its place, and there should be a place for everything." The mul- 
tiplicity of articles required by a cook should induce her to bear this 
maxim in mind. Herbs may be very well kept in paper bags ; they 
should be all labelled. When time is an important object, the necessi- 
ty of this is obvious — they are always to be had when wanted, and 
the bag should be replaced after using. 

There should be a saucepan, or kettle of iron well-tinned, kept for 
soup only ; and remember, in using that, the lid of the stock-pot 
should Jit tightly. The inexperienced reader will understand by the 
term " stock-pot," that soups being of two kinds, brown and white, 
nave different foundations, that of brown being beef, and that of 
white, veal ; there are many ingredients in each, and it is the various 
articles which, when put together, are called " stock," hence the soup- 
titensil is technically termed the stock-pot, 

STOCK FOR EROWK SOUP. 

l*et the kettle in which the soup is to be prepared be perfectly 
clean and dry ; the hands of the cook should be so likewise ; then take 
about a pound of beef, which should be lean, and may be either shin, 
leg, ox-cheek, or from the clod ; indeed from any of the inferior parts, 
always remembering it must be lean ; cut it in slices, and place it at 
the bottom of the saucepan, with a tolerable-sized piece of salt butter, 
and a little water to prevent burning, but let the quantity be small ; 
add a piece of leau bacon, cut in slices also ; if the quantity be large, 
about a fourth the quantity of the bacon to the beef will suffice, but 
When the quantity of beef is small, the proportion of bacon shonld 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 

be nearly equal ; cover the lid down close, and extract the gravy, per- 
mitting it nearly all to re-enter the meat, and then pour sufficient boil- 
ing water for the quantity of soup required, adding two or three on- 
ions if small, sweet herbs cut small, with a few cloves, and let it stew 
slowly for four or five hours, proportionately to the quantity of meat 
When the meat is quite tender, this will form the foundation for all 
the best brown soups, and, if well done, also makes a delicious gravy - 
soup. 

Stock, in its composition, is not confined to the above receipt ; any 
meats or bones, stewable, will be useful in the stock-pot ; pieces of 
beef, from any part from which gravy can be extracted, bones, shin- 
bones, brisket-bones, tops of ribs, ox-cheek, pieces of mutton, bacon, 
ham, bones of either legs, heads of fowls, geese, or turkeys, veal, 
knuckle, or other parts, game, hare, pheasant, partridges, if they are 
old and fit for no other purpose ; indeed, anything which is proper to 
be eaten in the form of animal food, and in any degree resolvable into 
jelly, will assist in making stock. 

To this medley of ingredients, which it will be found on trial will 
produce the best soup that can be made, add carrots cut thin in sli- 
ces, herbs, onions, pepper, and salt ; when it has stewed slowly for & 
short time, pour in the boiling water in proportion to the quantity of 
meat and soup required ; then stew it until it is of a rich consistency, 
take it from the fire, let it cool, and remove the pot. If required the 
following day, care should be taken that the deposit or sediment is re- 
moved, as also the fat, previous to warming ; if kept long, the pans 
must be changed ; there is as much danger in red glazed earthenware 
as in metal pans ; the latter should never be employed to keep gravy 
in, if possible. Wherever greater richness is desired, it may be ob- 
tained by the addition of the jelly of cow-heel, or a lump of butter 
and flour. 

Soup is richer and better for being made a day, or even two oc 
three days, previously to its being required, if it be warmed each day j 
to be really good, it must be well stewed. 

STOCK FOP WHITE SOUPS, 

This is a soup the foundation of which is veal, (the knuckle, the 
scrag, or calf's head being the best meat for the purpose), an old fowl, 
a little ham or bacon, mutton, sheep's head, indeed nearly the same in- 
gredients as for brown soups, save that there must not be much beef, 
and the proportion of ham and bacon smaller in the latter than the 
former, and when made for white sauce, care must be taken to leave 
out the pepper: 

GBAvy soup, 

Nothing is better than shin of beef for this soup, though pieces of 
tlie rump and other parts are used ; the shin should be sawed iu 



10 HOW TO COOK, 

several places, and the marrow extracted ; this, if laid in the bottom 
of the saucepan, will take the place of butter ; if marrow is not forth- 
coming, butter must be employed ; take a fourth of the quantity of 
ham, stew gently until the gravy is extracted, care being taken it does 
not burn ; a little water may be employed by the inexperienced, but 
not much ; when it has nearly dried up again, put in herbs, a couple 
of carrots cut very small, pepper ground, salt, a little white sugar 
(this can be omitted, but it materially adds to the flavor) ; add boil- 
ing water in requisite quantity, and stew gently for five hours ; when 
cold, remove the fat, and warm up as wanted. 

GRAVY SOUP. 

Take a leg of beef, well wash and soak it, break the bone, put it 
into a saucepan with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, 
two large onions sliced and fried to a nice brown, taking great care 
they are not burnt, two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries 
of allspice, and forty of black pepper, and stew till the soup is as rich 
as you wish it to be, then take out the meat ; when it is cold, take off 
the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, and the nicest part of a head of 
celery boiled and cut to pieces, cayenne, and a little salt ; carrot may 
be added, with turnip cut up into small pieces, and boiled with spin- 
ach and endive, or the herbs without the vermicelli, or vermicelli only ; 
add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom ketchup ; a 
French roll should be made hot and put into the soup. 

VENISON SOUP. 

Take four pounds of freshly-killed venison cut off from the bones, 
and one pound of ham in small slices. Add an onion minced, and 
black pepper to your taste. Put only as much water as will cover it, 
and stew it gently for an hour, keeping the pot closely coverec. Skim 
it well, and pour in a quart of boiling water. Add a head of celery 
cut small, and three blades of mace. Boil it gently two hours and a 
half ; then put in quarter of a pound of butter, cut small and roll- 
ed in flour, and half-pint of Port, or Maderia. Let it boil quarter 
of an hour longer, and send it to the table with the meat in it. 

BLOOD OR VEAL GRAVY. 

Put a few slices of ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over it some 
slices of lean veal, half cover the meat with jelly stock, stew it over 
a brisk fire, taking care that it does not burn ; when the broth is re- 
duced, thrust a knife into the meat so that the gravy may run out, 
then stew it more gently till brown, and turn the meat frequently ; 
when of dark red color, moisten with hot stock, season with shred 
mushrooms, parsley, and green onions ; when it has boiled an hour, 
skim and strain it through a tammy for u«e to clarify. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 11 

OX-TAIL. 

One tail will do for a tnreed of soup ; cut it into joints, — your 
butcher will cut it for you — blanch it a few minutes in water, then add 
some good clear second stock to the pieces, and let them gently boil 
until tender ; skim off all grease from them ; add sufficient consomme 
stock, also add exactly the same roots as for saute soup, in shape and 
size, similar to the roots you would cut for a haricot and use small 
button onions instead of cut onions ; season as before ; dish the pieces 
of tail into the soup tureen with a large ragou spoon, or you will 
smash them. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Same as gravy soup, adding about three ox-tails, seperated at the 
joints ; when the meat upon them is tender, it is done ; chey must not 
be over-stewed ; add a spoonful of ketchup or Harvey's sause, and 
send to table with pieces of the tail in the soup. 

MACCARONI SOUP. 

After you have blanched it, cut some pipe maccaroni, about an 
inch long ; do not boil it too much ; it will take longer than vermi- 
celli ; keep the pieces in cold water until you require them for your 
soup, when you will strain them off, and add to your consomme ; sea- 
son for Italian soup ; send up on a small plate or dish, on a napkin, 
some grated Parmesan cheese. 

MACCARONI SOUP. 

Take a given weight of maccaroni in proportion to the quantity of 
soup required, (say one pound,) and boil it in a quart of white stock 
until it is tender, then take out one half and keep the other boiling 
until it is reduced to a pulp. Add sufficient stock until the whole, 
with half a pint of cream, boiling, make five pints ; grate eight ounces 
of Parmesan cheese, and add the half of the maccaroni which had 
been only boiled tender, warm it without boiling, and serve with 
toast. 

CURRY SOUP. 

Cut the meat from an ox-cheek, and soak it well, then put it in a 
stewpan, with four onions cut in slices, and a bunch of potherbs ; add 
three quarts of water ; remove the scum frequently, and strain ; add 
also half a pound of soaked rice, one tea-spoonful of curry-powder, a 
little pepper and salt, and stew four hours. 

SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

Stew a brisket of beef with some turnips, carrots, onions, and eel- 



12 HOW TO COOK, 

ery, all cut small ; put the beef into the pot first, then the roots, add 
a few cloves and half a pint of beef gravy, simmer an hour, then add 
sufficient beef gravy to fill the pan, and boil gently for half an hour. 

SOUP A LE SAP. 

Divide a pound of beef into thin slices, grate half a pound of po- 
tatoes, and put them in three quarts of water, adding an onion, a 
pint of grey peas, and three ounces of rice ; reduce it by boiling to 
five pints ; cut two heads of celery and put them into the stewpan, 
pouring upon them the five pints of soup, and pulp the boiled peas 
into it through a fine tammy of coarse cloth ; stew until it is quite 
tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve up with fried bread 
cut in dice. 

HESSIAN SOUP 

Cut into slices three pounds of shin of beef, lay it in a stewpan 
with three onions, five carrots, eight potatoes, a pint and a quarter of 
split peas, three heads of celery, some whole pepper, and salt ; pour 
in by degrees seven quarts of water, and stew until reduced to half. If 
the soup alone be required, strain off' the vegetables ; if not, serve as 
cooked. 

C0CK-A-LEEK1E. 

Put into a stewpan, as much beef stock as you desire to send to 
table ; put in an old fowl, and six leeks sliced about two inches long ; 
stew gently half an hour previous to serving ; put in six to eight 
ounces of prunes. Serve the fowl on a separate dish. 

SOUP A LA FRANCAISE. 

Place in the stewpan six pounds of beef, add a few small veal bones, 
or one about a pound weight, a couple of fowls' heads, a small piece 
of calf's liver, and cover with four quarts of water ; when it boils re- 
move the scum, adding three or four leeks, a couple of turnips, head 
of celery, a burnt onion, a large carrot, salt, and simmer slowly seven 
hours ; let every particle of scum be removed, and serve with sippets 
of bread in the soup. 

A cheap soup. 

A pound or a pound and a half of lean beef, cut up into small 
pieces, six quarts of water, stew in three large onions, with double 
the quantity of turnips ; put in thyme, parsley, pepper, and salt, half 
a pound of rice, a pound of potatoes peeled and cut in quarters, and 
a handful of oatmeal. Stew from three to four hours, not less. 

a good and cheap soup. 

Oat in slices four pounds of lean beef or mutton, fry them brown 



AND HOW fO CARVE, 13 

&iid lay them with their gravy in the stewpan ; cut six carrots and as 
many turnips in slices, (the latter may only be quartered,) three tol- 
erable-sized onions, two table-spoonfuls o( black pepper whole, and 
two heads of celery with their green tops on, let it boil, and then 
simmer till the meat is reduced to a pulp, strain it, and serve it with 
or Without vegetables. 

SAGO SOUP, 

Take three pounds of lean beef, a slice of lean ham, and lay them 
In a steWpan with a lump of butter, draw the gravy gently, and two 
quarts of water, and a sliced onion which has been browned by frying 
in fresh butter; also add a bunch of sweet herbs, six cloves, a blade 
of mace, a tea-spoonful of allspice, and one of black pepper whole \ 
stew until the soup is rich and brown, then remove the meat, and 
strain the soup clear, put it into a clean stewpan, and thicken it to a 
good consistency with sago* 

BAKED SOUP. 

Cut into slices a pound and a half of lean beef^ put it into a stew- 
pan earthenware jar, with three oniong sliced, and the same number 
Of carrots Cut up j add also three ounces of rice, which has been 
soaked two hours previously and .thoroughly washed, and a pint of 
white peas : season with pepper and salt, cover down close, and bake 
two hours* 

India?* Method. 

Slice sis onions, and seven or eight shalots, and place them in the 
stewpan with six ounces of butter ; cut a pair of young fowls, as 
though for fricasee, season copiously with white pepper, place the 
Chickens upon the onions, and stew gently rather more than an hour \ 
then remove the pieces of chicken, flour each well, put them again 
in the pan, with four desert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, and one of 
turmeric ; poitr at least two quarts of gravy to this, and SteW slowly 
for an hour, then add a small quantity of cayenne pepper, with 
lemon juice, that of a half a leraon will suffice. Boil a pound of 
best rice until soft ; serve in a separate dish, boxed with small pieced 
df toast cut into squares. A rabbit will serve the same purpose as 
A chicken. 

CALVES* FOOT SOUP A LA TUttEEN* 

This soup is frequently made from calves' feet after having taken 
the stock from them for jelly, but do not boil them so much as though 
they were not required ; take out all the bones and lay them to get 
cold, then cut them into large square pieces ; if quite tender to eat* 
put them into your tureen ; sweat down a small slice of raw ham 
and veal, a few mushrooms, two onions, a sprig of parsley, a blade of 



14 EOW TO COOK, 

mace, a large faggot of sweet herbs, with plenty of basil, dry all well 
up with flour, and strain it through a tammy cloth or seive ; season 
with cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon, add a wine glass or two of 
white wine at the last, then put in the cut meat to get hot. 

calves' tail soup. 

Get three calves' tails, let them be cut in joints, and, after blanch* 
ing, put . them into some good white stock, and stew them well for 
several hours ; proceed as for the former soup, likewise season the 
same, leaving out the basil. 

lambs' tail souf. 

Four lambs' tails, cut in joints, will make this soup, proceeding 
the same way as the former, leaving out sweet herbs ; add cream, as 
to the former, and one glass of white wine. 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Cut a neck of mutton into four pieces, and put it aside, then take 
a slice of the gammon of bacon and put it in a saucepan with a quart 
of peas and enough water to boil them ; let the peas boil to a pulp, 
then strain them through a cloth, and put them aside ; add enough 
water to that in which is the bacon to boil the mutton, slice three 
turnips, as many carrots, and boil for an hour slowly, adding sweet 
herbs, onions, cabbage, and lettuces chopped small ; then stew a 
quarter of an hour longer, sufficient to cook the mutton, then take it 
out, and take some fresh green peas, add them with some chopped 
parsley and the peas first boiled to the soup, put in a lump of butter 
rolled in flour, and stew till the green peas are done. 

LAMB SOUP. 

May be eooked as mutton, save that beef may be substituted for 
the bacon. 

LEG OP BEEP BROTH. 

Take a leg of beef, break the bone in several places, place it in a 
pan with a gallon of water, remove the scum as it rises, and add three 
blades of mace, a crust of bread, and a small pinch of parsley ; 
boil till the beef is tender ; toast some bread, cut it in diamonds, lay 
it in the bottom of the tureen, put the meat on it, and pour the broth 
over all. 

BROTH. 

Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, and a few 
shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover it close with a dish of 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 15 

coarse paste ; put water enough to cover the meat, and bake it till 
gender ; when cold, let it stand in a cool place, covered close and 
flavor it as you please. 

VEAL BROTH. 

Stew a knuckle of veal ; draw gravy as for stock, add four quarts 
of water, with celery, parsley, and an onion ; simmer till reduced to 
half, then add two or three ounces of rice, but not until the soup is 
nearly cooked, so that when served the rice may be no more than 
done. Vermicilli may be used in preference, or for change. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Three pounds of scrag of mutton, put into two quarts of cold 
water, add onion, turnips, pepper, and salt, a few sweet herbs, and a 
little pearl barley ; skim well, and boil four hours. These ingredients 
chiefly depend upon whether this dish is made for an invalid, if so, 
the omission of any of the ingredients will be regulated according to 
the advice of the medical attendant. 

WHITE PORTABLE SOUP. 

Procure as fine a leg of veal as can be obtained, bone it, remove 
the whole of the skin and fat, chop in pieces two dozen fowls' feef, 
wash them well, put them into a large iron kettle with three gallons 
of water, an 1 stew until the meat is tender enough to seperate, then 
cover down close and stew for eight hours ; take a tea-cup and fill it 
with the soup, set it where it can quickly cool, if when cold it is hard 
enough to cut with a knife, strain through a sieve and remove all the 
fat, pour into cups the clear jelly, and put them into a stewpan with 
boiling water until they are like glue ; let them cool ; and when near- 
ly cold, run a ring round them and turn them on to a piece of new 
flannel, it will draw all the moisture out of them; turn them in seven 
hours, and continue until they are very hard ; put them in tin canis- 
ters in a dry place. When any is required, cut a piece about the 
size of a walnut, pour a pint of boiling water upon it, stir until the 
soup is dissolved, and season with salt, it will make a basin of strong 
broth ; if tor soup, steep some vermicilli in water, and boil it ; then 
to one cake of the soup pour one pint of water, if two quarts or four 
pints of sonp are required, take four cakes of the soup, and when melt- 
ed, set it over the fire and simmer ; pour it into a soup tureen, add 
thin slices of bread very lightly toasted, and upon them lhe vermicelli; 
season to palate. 

TRANSPARENT SOUP. 

Cut the meat from a leg of veal in slices as thin as possible, and 
break the bone as small as possible ,• put the meat into a very large 



Itf SOW TO COOK, 

jaf, the bones at the top, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a quarter' cf 
an ounce of mace,, and four ounces of blanched garden almonds beat 
fine"; pour upon it a gallon of boiling water, and let it simmer over a 
Blow fire twelve hours — all night is best ; turn it into a double-bot- 
tomed tin saucepan, simmer until reduced to two quarts, remove the 
sGum as it rises, strain it, and let it stand two hours, then pour into a 
saucepan, taking cafe not to let any of the sediment accompany it 
Steep two ounces of vermicelli in water, boil it and put it in the soap 
before serving up. 

SOUP ITALIENNE. 

Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal, break up the bones and make 
a broth of them, cut half a pound of ham in slices, and lay them at 
the bottom of a stewpan* upon tbem the meat from the knuckle of 
veal, with the slices of four carrots, four turnips, a dozen peppercorns, 
two blades of mace, a large onion, and a head of celery ; cover down 
close ; stew till the gravy is drawn out, and the roots are quite ten* 
der, then pour over them the broth made from the bones of the 
knuckle until they are covered, add six spoonfuls of rice, stew four' 
hours, work the soup through a sieve, and add vermicelli before 
Serving. 

ITALIAN SOUP. 

Blanche about two ounces of Italian stew-paste (of any portion 
preferred) a few minutes, strain 'it ofi\ and put it in a basin of Cold 
water until Wanted ; it must be boiled a short time in some good con- 
somme stock ; season as before, using less sugar. 

Vermicelli soup* 

Blanche as the Italian paste, but first give the VefmiCelll a squeeze 
to break it a little, or otherwise it will hang disagreeably about the 
ladle or spoon in eating,' at the risk of spoiling a lady's dresS of caus* 
ing a confused blush. Season as before. 

ESPAGNOLE 

Take fourteen pounds of the leg or shoulder of veal and an old fowl, 
Chop the veal into pieces, and put the whole into a saucepan, with 
two carrots, two onions, a pound of ham, a few peppercorns, a small 
quantity of spice and a clove of garlic ; let this stew over the fire, 
shaking it frequently, till it becomes cf a brown color, then add hot 
water to come four inches above the meat, set it by the stove to boi\ 
gently, skimming when the meat comes from the bones, strain it 
through a silk sieve, and get it by fof use. 



ana aow to dAsrfi fcl 

SOtT A LA REltfE VICTORIA 

Take a pound and a half lean veal, place it ill a stewpan -frith a 
Slice of lean bacon, an onion with one clove, a blade of mace, a head 
of celery, a handful of sweet herbs, four ounces Of fresh butter, and 
some whole white pepper, set it over a clear fire, and move it fre* 
quently to prevent burning, of the flavor Is ruined. Have some white 
gravy ready, thicken it, add two quarts to the above ingredients with 
u few strips of mushrooms ; let it boil, and when it reaches that point, 
remove it, and skim it clean Of all scum and fat. HaVe ready some 
Vermicelli which has been soaked five miuUtes in cold Water and sub* 
sequently stewed in strong broth ; strain on it the soup, and serve 
AVith blanched chervil leaves ill it. 

MULIOATAWNEY SOUP. 

A calf's head divided , well cleaned, and placed with a cow-heel in 
a well-tinned saucepan ; boil them till tender, let them Cool, cut the 
meat from the bones in slices, and fry them in butter ; stew the bonea 
of the head and heel for some hours ; when well stewed, strain, let it 
get cold and remove the fat. When this is accomplished, cttt four 1 
onions in slices, flour them, fry them in butter until brown, add a ta- 
ble-spoonful and a half of best curry powder obtainable, cayenne pep- 
per one tea-spoonful, With a little Salt ; turmeric powder sufficient to 
fill a dessert spoon is sometimes added, but the improvement is not 
manifest to a refined English palate$ the Curry powder being deemed 
all that is necessary ; add these last ingredients to the soup, boil gent- 
ly for about an hour and a half, then add two dessertspoonfuls of 
Harvey's sauce, and serve. 

BEEF GRAVY. 

Take three pounds of beef steaks, a knuckle of veal, five carrots, 
Six oniou§, two cloVes, two bay leaves, a bunch of parsley, and seal* 
lions ; put all these into a stewpan, with two ladlefuls of broth, and 
set them over a good fire to reduce them, cover the stove, and let the 
stewpan stand over it Until the meat begins to give out the gravy 5 
and adheres slightly ; the jelly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to 
be nearly black, and when that is the case, take it from the stove, and 
let it stand for ten minutes, then fill the stewpan with good broth or 
Water (if the latter, not so large a quantity), let this simmer for three 
hours, skim and season it well ; if water is used instead of broth, the 
gravy must be strained first. 

Portable soup. 

There are many advantages connected with this soup which Will 
pr csent themselves to the lady housekeeper, its constant readiness for 
use, and the excellent stock it makes for gravies, sauces, or soups 
being the chief; a few minutes will suffice to make a basin of soup 
from it* 



18 HOW TO COOK, 

Take three pounds of beef, the bones of which break, a cow-heel, 
and two small knuckles of veal, put them in a stewpan, and add as 
much water as will barely cover them ; put in three onions and sea- 
soning to taste ; stew the meat to ribbons, strain, and then put it in^ 
the coldest place you can command ; when thoroughly cold, take off 
the fat, and boil it fast in a stewpan without the lid, on a quick fire ; 
let it boil and keep it stirred for at least eight hours, then pour it in- 
to a pan, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; then take your largest 
lip bason and turn the soup into it ; boil sufficient water in the stew- 
pan to reach as high outside the bason which is placed in it as the 
soup is inside, but do not let any bubble into the bason ; keep the 
water boiling until the water is reduced to a good consistency ; it 
will be then done ; it should then be poured into small jelly pots, or 
in saucers, so as to form cakes when cold, but is best preserved in tin 
canisters, put in dry cool places. This soup may receive various fla- 
vors of herbs, or anything else, by boiling the herbs or other ingre- 
dients, and straining the "simples noted through the water, make it 
boil, and then melt the soup in it. 

CONSOMME. 

Take eight or ten pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two young 
ones, four knuckles of veal, put these into a large pot, and fill it with 
strong broth ; skim it well, cooling it three or four times to make the 
scum rise, after which let it boil gently. Fut it into the pot carrots, 
turnips, onions, and three cloves ; when your meat is sufficiently done, 
pass the liquor through a fine napkin or sieve, that it may be very 
clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth be used. 

WHITE SOUP. 

General directions for white stock have been given, but to prevent 
mistake, take a knuckle of veal, seperated into three or four pieces, a 
slice of ham as lean as possible, a few onions, thyme, cloves and mace, 
stew twelve or fourteen hours, until the stock is as rich as the materi- 
als can make it ; an old fowl will make it much richer if added. This 
soup must be made the day before it is required ; when removed from 
the fire, after being sufficiently stewed, let it cool, and then remove the 
fat ; add to it four ounces of pounded blanched almonds, let it boil 
slowly, thicken it with half a pint of cream and an egg. It should 
boil slowly for half an hour, and then be served. 

BEEF GRAVY. 

Cut a piece of the cheek or neck into pieces, strew some flour over 
it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan with as 
much water as will cover it, an onion, a little allspice, pepper and salt, 
cover it close, and when it boils, skim it ; then throw in a small crust 



AND HOW TO CARTE, 19 

of bread, or raspings, and stew it until the gravy is rich and good, 
then strain it off, and pour it into a sauce boat. 

GRAVY — CLEAR. 

Slice some beef thinly, broil a part of it over a very clear, quick 
fire, just enough to give color to the gravy, but not to dress it ; put this 
with the raw remainder into a tinned stewpan with a couple of onions, 
one or two cloves, a whoje black pepper, berries of allspi e, and a few 
sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it 
two or three times, then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. 

sheep's head broth. > 

Split the sheep's head, and well wash it, take out the brains, let the 
head soak for au hour in cold water ; boil three quarters of a pound 
of Scotch barley in eight quarts of water, and when it. boils, put in 
the head with a neck of mutton ; slice carrots thin, and cut turnips 
small, and add them with some salt ; let it boil for three hours, and 
skim with care and frequency. When it has boiled two hours and a 
half add some onions chopped very fine. In warming up this soup it 
must be stirred gently over a clear fire, and allowed to boil no longer 
than three minutes. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Joint a chicken, wash the pieces, put them into a stewpan with 
three pints of water, and add two ounces of rice, two or three blades 
of mace, some white pepper whole, and a pinch of salt : let it come 
to a boil, skim frequently, and simmer for three hours ; boil for five 
minutes in the soup some vermicelli, and serve with it in the soup. 

SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH. 

Throw three quarters of a pound of Scotch barley into some clean 
water, when thoroughly cleansed, place it with a knuckle of veal in a 
stewpan, cover it with cold water, let it slowly reach aboil, keep it 
skimmed, add seven onions, and simmer for two hours ; skim again, 
and add two heads of celery and two turnips cut in slices, or any 
shape it pleases the cook ; add as much salt as required to make it 
palatable, and let it stew for an hour and a half— it must be well 
skimmed before the broth is dished ; the meat must be previously re- 
moved and the broth alone sent to table. If it is intended to send the 
veal to table with it, dress it as follows : — take two pints of the broth 
and put it into a stewpan, over a clear fire, add two table-spoonfuls of 
flour to the broth, and keep the broth stirring as you shake it in, un- 
til it boils ; then add a little cayenne pepper, two table-spoonfuls of 
port, boil for two minutes, strain it over the veal, and send to table. 



20 mw to mo& 



GIBLET SOUP. 



Scald and clean thoroughly two sets of goose giblets, or twice th«3 
number of duck giblets, cut them in pieces, and put them in three 
quarts of stock ; if water is" Used instead of stock add a pound of 
gravy beef, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of onions, half a table" 
spoonful of the whole white pepper, as much salt, and the peel of half 
a lemon ; cover all with water, then stew, and when the gizzards are 
tender strain the soup. Now put into a stewpau a paste made of 
an ounce of butter and a spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until 
brown, pour in the soup, and let it boil, stirring it well all the while ; 
in ten minutes skim and strain it, add a glass of Madeira, a salt* 
spoonful of cayenne, a desert-Spoonful of mushroom ketchup, squeeze 
in the juice of half a lemon, and serve up with the giblets in the 
soup } it should be sent to table as hot as possible* 



SOUPS OF POULTRY, GAME, ETC, 

CIBLEt SOUP. 

(let two sets of giblets, blanch them, and throw them into cold 
water j then cut them in pieces about one inch long, the gizzard, liver, 
and heart cut in thin slices, put them into some good second stock, 
and stew them until tender, then Strain off some of that stock, cut up 
in dice a piece of lean ham, two onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a 
few mushrooms or the parings, a blade or two of mace, six cloves, a 
bay leaf, and fry all a nice light brown ; if for brown giblet soup, 
dry all up with flour, add the stock you have strained from the giblets, 
and boil it well, then strain it through a tammy, or tammy sieve, into 
the stewpau with the giblets, boil all together, clear off all grease, 
season With salt, sugar, cayenne pepper, lemon-juice, and white wine. 
If for White giblet soup, do not let your butter brown, and add half 
a pint of good cream, and the wins and lemon the last thing, in caae 
of curdling your soup. 

HARE SOUP. 

An old bare is fitted only for soup or jugging; To render it into 
soup let it be cleaned, cut into piece3, and add a pound and a half or 
two pounds of beef, to Which there is little or no fat ; place it at the 
bottom of the pail, then add two or three slices of ham or bacon, or 
a little of both, a couple of onions, and some sweet herbs ; add four 
quarts of boiling water, let it stew to shreds, strain off the soup, and 
take away the fat ; reboil it, add a spoonful of soy or Harvey's sauee, 
and s^ntl to table with a few force-meat balls. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 21 

HARE SOUP. 

If possible procure a hare that has been coursed ; in skinning it, and 
blowing it, take care of all the blood. Cut it up in small pieces, add 
about six onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, four blades of 
mace, six cloves, a few pepper-corns, about one pound of lean ham 
cut in dice, and a few mushrooms or parings ; cover all with your 
brown second stock, and stew until tender, then take up a few of the 
best pieces of meat to go into your soup from the rest, take out all 
the bones, then rub all the meat and stock through a tammy until the 
meat has gone clean through ; return it to your stewpan ; if not 
thick enough, add a little flour and butter thin ; season with cayenne 
pepper, salt, and port wine, then add the best pieces of meat you had 
previously taken care of. Be sure it has been well skimmed from 
grease. 

SOUP LORRAINE. 

Pound in a mortar a pound of blanched almonds — use a little 
water, or they will oil ; add to these the breast and legs of a roast 
fowl, and with the yolks of four poached eggs, beat up into a smooth 
mixture ; warm three quarts of white stock, stir in the ingredients, 
and boil them over a slow fire. Chop the meat of the legs, wings, 
and breast of a second fowl until it is minced fine ; season it with 
nutmeg, pepper, salt, and finely-pounded mace : melt a lump of 
butter, strain a small quantity of the soup, and add one spoonful to 
butter ; cut into slices two French rolls, crisp them before the 
fire, scoop out the crumb of a third roll, without damaging the 
the crust, and fill it with the minced food ; close the roll at each end, 
make it hot, and keep it so. Strain into a stewpan the soup, and 
stew it until the consistency of cream ; lay the crisped slices of roll 
into the bottom of the tureen, pour the soup on to it, and serve up 
with the roll containing the minced fowl floating in the centre. 

PARTRIDGE SOUP. 

When you have a brace of partridges which prove to be remark" 
ably old, convert them into soup ; skin and cut them up, cut a hand- 
some slice of ham as lean as possible, and divide it in four, or cut as 
many thin slices, put them in the pan, add the partridges with an 
onion sliced, some celery, and four ounces of butter, brown nicely 
without burning, put them into the stewpan with three pints of 
water, throw in a few white peppers whole, a shank of mutton, salt 
it to palate, strain, add stewed celery, fried b>ead, and, previous to its 
boiling skim very clean, and serve up. 

VELOUTE. 

Take the cuttings and remains of any joints of fowls and veal yoa 



22 HOW TO COOK, 

may happen to have, weigh four pounds, and put into a large stew- 
pan, with some onions, carrots, parsley, scallions, three bay leaves, 
three cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; put your stewpan upon a brisk 
fire, skim well, and be careful the meat does not stick ; when enough 
reduced, add as much stock as will nearly fill the stewpan, salt it 
well, give it a boil, skim and then put it on the side of the fire to 
simmer for two hours, after which strain it through a tammy ; make 
a white roux ; stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, then 
pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor, let it boil up once, 
then skim, and set it again by the side of the fire for an hour and a 
half; remove all fat, strain again, and then put by for use. The 
veloute should be colorless, the whiter it is the better. 

PIGEON SOUP. 

Take half a dozen of the fattest pigeons you can get, roast them 
only sufficient to warm them through ; cut the meat from the bones, 
flour the latter well, and pound them in a mortar ; stew them in a 
pint and a half of good gravy, add a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
a bunch of tarragon, chervil, a few onions, shalots, parsley, and basil, 
a few turnips and carrots sliced, season with cayenne and one blade 
of mace. Boil slowly two hours, then pour, and pass through a cul- 
lender. Pulp through a tammy, and then with the flesh of the 
pigeons put them into a saucepan. Let it simmer one hour, and 
serve. 

TURTLE, KILLED AND DRESSED. 

Tie a strong cord round the hind fins of the turtle, then hang it 
up ; tie another cord by way of pinion to both fins, that it should 
not beat about and be troublesome to the person who cuts off the 
head ; then take off the head. All this do the evening before you 
intend dressing it ; then lay the turtle on the back shell on the block, 
loosen the shell round the edge by cutting it with your sharp knife, 
then gently raise the shell clean off from the fleeh, and next take out 
the gall with great care ; then cut the fore fins off— all the flesh will 
come with them ; then cut the hind fins off, taking the liver as whole 
as you can from the entrails, likewise the heart and the kidneys ; cut 
the entrails from the back bone, put them in a bucket of water, 
wash the shell in several waters, and turn it down to drain. In the 
mean time cut the fins from the lean meat, then cut the white or 
belly shell in twelve or fourteen pieces, turn up the back shell, and 
take all the fat from it, taking it out as though you were skinning it ; 
put the fat in a stewpan by itself, saw a rim off the back shell six 
inches deep, cut it in about twelve inches, put a large stewpan full of 
water on the fire, and when it boils dip in a fin for a minute or two, 
thee peel' off the shell, and so continue until you have done head and 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 23 

all ; then pat all the pieces of shell into a stewpau, with about eigh- 
teen large onions, and a faggot of sweet herbs, allowing more basil 
than any other herbs ; fill it up with water and let it boil a long 
time ; next you will cut the fore fins into four pieces, and put them 
into a stewpan, cover them with water, the hind ones in two each ; 
cover the stewpan ; let them boil gently until you can take out all the 
bones ; do not mix them, but put them on different dishes, put the 
two liquors in one pan. 

Cut up the lean meat for entrees, such as grenadins, collops, frican- 
deaux, roasting or boiling, as chickens, pates, or quenelles. Put one 
pound of butter into a large stewpan, and all the lean next that may 
be left as useless ; cut up three or four fowls, a faggot of turtle herbs; 
twelve onions, three or four pounds of lean ham, a bottle of Madeira, 
and a pound of mushrooms ; draw it down for an hour, and then 
fill it up with the liquor previously strained from * the bones and 
shells, keep it all boiling gently for several hours, and then strain it 
off, taking care of what lean meat you require for your tureens, by 
putting it into your soup-pot to keep hot, with a little of the stock. 
Have the entrails cleaned and scalded, cut them into pieces two 
inches long, then put them on to blanch in cold water, wash them out, 
line a stewpan with fat bacon, and let them stew very gently for 
about three hours ; then thicken the stock as for mock turtle, and rub 
it through a tammy, adding egg-balls, or hard boiled eggs, cut in 
half, and force-meat balls, or quenelles ; the green fat to be boiled by 
itself in good consomme, a little to be added to each tureen of soup. 
If to be sent up in the shell, put a pretty rim of raised pie paste 
round the top shell; add the, juice of lemons and a little more wine 
before you serve it up. Season with sugar, cayenne pepper, and 
salt. 

MOCK TURTLE 

Is made much after the same manner. The calf's head being divided, 
having the skin on, the brains carefully remove and boil separately 
in a cloth ; it must be placed in a saucepan, with more than enough 
water to cover it, skim while heating, let it be parboiled, and then let 
it cool, cut the meat from the head into square pieces, the tongue 
also ; then break the bones of the head in pieces, return them into 
the water in which they have been boiled, add three or four pounds 
of shin of beef, knuckle of veal, three or four onions, two small car- 
rots sliced, a turnip also, with black pepper unground ; then add the 
brains pounded, and stew gently five hours; strain, cool, and remove 
the fat. Take a clean stewpan, place in it four ounces of fresh but- 
ter ; add to it, when fluid, three wooden spoonfuls of flour, stirring it 
well until it browns, some shalots, or a little of the soup may be ad- 
ded to this, also parsley, sweet basil, chives, salt, soy, cayenne, and 
ketchnp ; strain before you add it to the soup, into which you will 



34 NOW TO COOK, 

return the pieces of meat, and boil it for upwards of an hour ; pre- 
vious to dishing, half a pint of sherry or Madeira should be added, a 
lemoQ squeezed into the tureen in which it is to be served, and when 
in the tureen, add twenty or thirty egg balls. 



FISH SOUPS. 



EEL SOUP. 

Take any number of pounds of eels according to the quantity re- 
quired ; add two-thirds water. If about three or four pounds of eelg, 
add one onion, a small quantity of mace, a little pepper whole, sweet 
herbs, a crust of the top side of bread, cover down close, and stew 
till the fish separates, then strain. Toast slices of bread deep brown, 
but not to burn, and cut into triangular pieces or squares a piece of 
carrot, two inches long, cut into four slices lengthways, put into a 
tureen with the toast, and pour the soup on ; boiling cream may be 
added, thickened with a little flour, but it should be rich enough with- 
out it. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Extract the meat from the shells of four hen Lobsters which have 
been boiled ; put the spawn aside, beat the fins and small claws in a 
mortar ; then place both in a saucepan, with two quarts of water, un- 
til the whole goodness of the fish has been drawn ; then strain the 
liquor. Beat in a mortar the spawn, a lump of flour and butter ; rub 
it through a sieve into the soup previously strained ; simmer without 
^boiling, that the color may be preserved, ten minutes ; squeeze in a 
'piece of a lemon, with a little of the essence of anchovies. When 
this dish is sent to table as a feature, force-meat balls are served with 
it ; they are made of minced lobster spawn, crumb of French roll, 
egg, and mace pounded ; roll it in flour, and serve in the soup. 

CLAM SOUP 

Take 40 large or 80 small clams, and wash the shells perfectly 
clean. Throw them into a kettle of boiling water ; use only water 
enough to keep the clams from burning ; as soon as the shells open 
and the liquor runs out, take out the clams and strain the liquor into 
the soup-kettle. Cut the clams small and put them in the kettle, 
adding a quart of milk and water each. Add also an onion cut small, 
some blades of mace, and twelve whole pepper corns. Let it boil fif- 



AND HOW TO CARVE, 25 

teen minutes, skimming it well ; then add one quarter pound of sweet 
butter rolled in flour, cover the kettle a few minutes, and serve it hot. 

CHOWDEB. 

Fry some slices cut from the fat part of pork, in a deep stewpan, 
mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the 
pork ; bone and cut a fresh cod into thick slices, and place them on 
the pork, then put a layer of slices of pork, on that a layer of hard 
biscuit or crackers, then alternately, the pork, fish, and crackers, with 
the onions and herbs scattered through them till the pan is nearly full; 
season pepper, and salt, put in about two quarts of water, cover the 
stewpan close, and let it stand with fire above and below it four hours j 
then skim it well and serve it. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Get four flounders, or similar portions of any fish, four dozen of 
large oysters, blanch them slightly, take off the beards and gristle, 
put the beards and fish into some of your best white stock, and boil 
all together for several hours ; add four anchovies washed, strain all 
off, and thicken it with flour and butter ; add one pint of cream, put 
in your oysters you had taken care of the last thing, just boiling them 
up in the soup ; having passed it through a tammy, season it with 
cayenne pepper, salt, and a small piece of sugar. 

BROTH, FISH. 

Set water over the fire in a kettle, according to the quantity of 
broth to be made, put in the roots of parsley, parsnip, and whole on- 
ions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, sorrel, and butter ; 
let the whole be well seasoned ; then put in the bones and carcasses 
of the fish, the flesh of which you have used for farces ; also the 
tripes, the tails of cray-fish pounded in a mortar, and four or five 
spoonfuls of the juice of onions ; let these be well seasoned and boil- 
ed, then strained through a sieve, put it back into the kettle, and 
keep it hot to simmer your soups and boil your fish. 



VEGETABLE SOUPS. 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 



There are numerous methods of making this soup, the variations 
depending upon the omission or addition of certain vegetables, and 
in the mode of serving the soup with them or without them. The 
flowing is as simple and as palatable as any :— 

Collect whatever vegetables are in season, take equal quantities, 



2b flOW TO COOK, 

turnips, carrots, cabbage, spinach, celery, parsley, onion, a little mint, 
&c. ; add plenty of herbs, cut them fine, put them into the stewpan, 
in which has previously been placed some oil ; stew gently until the 
vegetables become tender, then add two quarts of boiling water ; 
stew a quarter of an hour, and serve. 

Some cooks advocate the introduction of green or white peas to 
this soup : where they are used, they must be boiled until tender in 
very little water, then smashed into a very loose paste ; the vegetables, 
having been scalded, are then added, and two hours will suffice for 
stewing ; season it with salt and pepper. Be careful that it does not 
burn while cooking, or the whole is spoiled. 

SPINACH SOUP. 

Let your spinach be well washed and picked, and boiled very green, 
strain it off, and rub it through a wire sieve ; add to it bechemel, a 
piece of butter, half a gill of cream, a little sugar, salt, and pepper. 

ONION SOUP. 

In two quarts of weak mutton broth slice two turnips and as many 
carrots ; then strain it. Fry six onions cut in slices, when nicely 
browned add them to the broth ; simmer three hours, skim, and 
serve. 

SOUP OF SPANISH ONIONS. 

Put in a stewpan with four Spanish onions, four ounces of butter, 
a head of celery, a large turnip, a quart of white gravy, and stew 
until the onions are quite tender, then add another quart of gravy 
and strain. Pulp the vegetables, return them to the soup, and 
boil for half an hour. Keep constantly stirring; and imme- 
diately previous to serving, thicken with rice flour worked in 
butter. 

PEA SOUP. 

Boil to a pulp two quarts of peas, strain them, place in a stewpan 
four ounces of butter, add two anchovies, a table-spoonful of pounded 
pepper, twice that quantity of salt, a small handful of parsley and 
mint, a little beet-root and spinach, and stew until tender. Add 
pulped peas until the soup is of the proper consistency, then throw in 
a spoonful of loaf sugar, boil up and serve. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Cut down in thin pieces two heads of celery, a good piece of mint, 
two carrots, two turnips, twelve green onions, a little parsley, and 
two quarts of peas, two lettuces, a handful of spinach, sweat all down 
with two quarts of good second stock, and let stew until tender, then 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 2t 

rub all through a tammy ; have a few young 1 peas, boiled green, 
strained off and put in your tureen ; if not a good green, add some 
green coloring from spinach juice to it the last thing before serving 
up ; season with a good bit of sugar, salt, and pepper. Send up fried 
bread cut in dice, as before. 

PEPPER POT. 

Put in a stewpan three quarts of water, to this add celery, turnips, 
carrots, lettuces, cut small, also add the bones of cold roast meat of 
any description, half a pound of bacon, and the same weight of salted 
pork ; stew gently until the meat is tender, taking care to skim when 
it first boils. 

Boil half a peck of spinnach and rub it through a colander, take 
the bones out of the soup and add the spinach, with it the meat of a 
lobster or crab minced, season with plenty of cayenne pepper, and 
salt to taste. Suet dumplings may be boiled with it, or a Jowl, but 
this is matter of taste. Mutton or beef may be substituted for bacon 
or pork ; this will be obvious when it is understood that a pepper pot 
is presumed to consist of an equal proportion of flesh, fish, fowl, aud 
vegetables. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Put into a stewpan three pints of white stock, take six large mealy 
potatoes, boil them until they are nearly done, cut them in slices until 
they are sufficiently tender to pulp through a sieve, with an onion 
boiled soft enough for the same purpose. Thicken with flour and 
butter, and season with white pepper, cayenne and salt. To 
enhance the flavor cream should be added, half a tea-cup full, 
previous to serving, but must not be permitted to boil after 
adding. 

RICE SOUP. 

Steep some fine rice in cold water for an hour, say four ounces, then 
boil it, add three quarts of gravy, a pinch of cayenne, a little salt, and 
boil five minutes. 

SOUP MAIZE. 

Melt half a pound of butter in a stewpan, and add four heads of 
celery, the outside stalks, if well cleaned, will be of service ; slice five 
onions, and throw in with twenty or thirty sprigs of spinach ; cut up 
four turnips, and add sweet herbs and parsley ; simmer for three quar- 
ters of an hour, then pour in five piuts of water, stew for half an hour, 
and serve with sippets of toasted bread. 

SPRING SOUP. 

Use for this soup the same roots, cut differently, as saute, with the 



28 HOW TO COOK, 

addition, if to be had, of spinach, cabbage-lettuce, a very little sorrel, 
as it turns acid on the stomach, all cut rather small, tarragon, 
chervil, green asparagus, young peas, and cucumbers; cut the 
asparagus about one inch long, cut the tarragon aud chervil a lit- 
tle, and a few French beans cut, use your consomme stock as before, 
boil all your green parts particularly green in water a few minutes, 
leaving them to be sufficiently done in your stock ; if you have a 
cauliflower boiled, pick a few small pieces, and put in the soup 
tureen ; the boiling soup when poured in will make it hot ; season as 
before. 

SPRING SOUP. 

Is made as Soup a l'ltalienne, with the addition of lettuce and 
chervil, and instead of cutting the vegetables in shreds, cut them in 
dice. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Slice two onions, and fry them in butter until brown, then remove 
them, and fry two dozen tomatoes just sufficient to heat them 
through, and put them into a stewpan with their gravy and the 
onions, adding a head of celery and a carrot sliced ; stew gently for 
half an hour ; add three pints of gravy, stew an hour and a half, pulp 
the whole of the vegetables through a sieve, season with white pep- 
per, salt, and cayenne, serve with sippets of toasted bread cut in 



TURNIP SOUP. 

This soup should be made the day before required. Stew a knuckle 
of veal with an onion, sweet herbs, and a little mace, in six quarts of 
water ; cover down close, and stew gently five or six hours ; let it be 
put in a cool place. Before warming, remove the fat and sediment, 
slice six turnips into small pieces, stew them in the gravy until tender, 
then add half a pint of cream, flour, and butter, and season with white 
pepper. 

PUREE OF TURNIP SOUP. 

Get a bunch of turnips, pare them and cut them in thin slices, one 
head of white celery, one onion, fill up your stewpan with good se- 
cond white stock, boil them until quite tender, then pass it all through 
a lammy by rubbing it with wooden spoons, or a tammy sieve, season 
with sugar, cayenne and salt. Send up fried bread, as for former 
soups ; add half a pint of cream the last thing. 

CHEAP SOUP. 

1. Soak a quart of split peas for a day in cold water, and then put 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 29 

them into a boiler with two gallons and a-half of water, and two 
pounds of cold boiled potatoes, well bruised, a fagot of herbs, salt, 
pepper, and two onions sliced. Cover it very close, and boil very 
gently for five hours, or until only two gallons of soup remain. 

2. Take two pounds of shin beef, a quarter of a pound of barley, 
two cents worth of parsley, two onions sliced, salt and pepper to 
taste, and having cut the meat into dice, and broken the bone, place 
in a gallon pot and fill up with water ; boil very gently for five hours. 
Potatoes, celery tops, cabbage, or any vegetable left from the day be- 
fore may be added. 

CABBAGE SOUP 

Take four or six pounds of beef, boil with it some black pepper 
whole for three hours, cut three or four cabbages in quarters, let them 
boil until they are quite tender, then turn them into a dish, and serve 
all together. 

CARROT SOUP. 

Take a proportionate number of carrots to the quantity of soup to 
be made — if a small quantity, six will do ; they should be large, and of 
a rich color ; cut them after being thoroughly scraped into thin slices, 
stew them in some rich stock, say two quarts, until they are tender 
through, then force them through a seive or tammy wtth a wooden 
spoon, until a red pulp is deposited, reboil it with the stock until it is 
rich and thick, and season with grated white sugar, cayenne pepper 
and salt. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Stew fine white celery cut into -small slips in gravy, then boil it in 
good gravy. 

herb soup. 

Slice three large but young cucumbers, a handful of spring onions, 
and six lettuces ; cut the last small. Put into a stewpan eight oun- 
ces of butter, and with it the above vegetables ; when the butter has 
melted, cover, and let it stand over a slow fire an hour and twenty 
minutes. Add as much stock as may be required for the quantity of 
soup intended to be served ; let it boil and simmer for an hour, then 
thicken with flour and butter, or three table-spoonfuls of cream. If 
desired to be colored, use spinach juice. 

HOTCH-POTCH, 

Put a pint of peas into a quart of water, and boil them until they 
are so tender as easily to be pulped through a seive. Take of the 
leanest end of a loin of mutton three pounds, cut it into chops, put it 



30 HOW TO COOK, 

into a saucepan with a gallon of water, four carrots, four turnips cut 
in small pieces, and season with pepper and salt, Boil until all the 
vegetables are quite tender, put in the pulped peas a head of celery 
and an onions sliced ; boil fifteen minutes, and serve. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Cut up a chicken or any fowl as if to fry, and break the bones ; lay 
it in a pot with just enough butter to brown it a little; when browned 
pour as much water to it as will make soup for four or five persons ; a 
thin slice of lean baeon, au onion cut fine, and some parsley should al- 
so be added. Stew gently for five or six hours ; about twenty min- 
utes before it is to be served make a thickening by mixing a heaping 
table-spoonful of sassafras leaves, pounded fine, in some of the soup, 
and adding it to the rest of the soup. If the chickens are small, two 
will be wanted, but one large fowl is sufficient. 

OCHRA SOUP. 

Boil a leg of veal with about four dozen ochras, an hour ; then add 
six tomatoes, six small onions, one green pepper, a bunch of thyme 
and paroley, and let it boil seven or eight hours. Season it with salt, 
and red pepper to suit your taste, and if agreeable, add a piece of salt 
pork which has been previously boiled. 

OCHRA GUMBO SOUP. 

Heat a large spoonful of lard or butter. Stir into it, while hot, a 
half a table spoonful of flour. To this add a small bunch of parsley, 
a large onion, with plenty of ochra, all chopped up very find. Let it 
fry till it is quite brown ; then add a common-sized fowl cut up in lit- 
tle pieces, and let all fry together until quite cooked, Pour in about 
three quarts of hot water, and let it boil until reduced one-half. 



SAUCES 



OBSERVATIONS, 



Few things require more care than making sauces. As most of 
them should be stirred constantly, the whole attention ought to be 
directed to them. The better way is to prepare the sauces before 
cooking those articles which demand equal care, for they may be 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 31 

kept hot in the bainmarie. Butter, and those sauces containing eggs 
ought never to boil. The thickest stewpans should be used for mak- 
ing sauces, and wooden spoons used for stirring them. 

APPLE SAUOE. 

Pare, core, and slice some apples, put them with a little water into 
the saucepan to prevent them from burning, and add a little lemon 
peel ; when sufficiently done, take out the latter, bruise the apples, 
put in a bit of butter, and sweeten it. 

BREAD SAUOE. 

Cut in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which add a few pep- 
percorns, one whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk enough to 
cover it ; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till the bread 
soaks up the milk, then add a little thick cream, take out the onion, 
and rub the whole through a sieve, make it very hot, and serve with 
game or fowls. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonfuls of gravy, strain it 
into some melted butter, then put in the meat of the lobster, give it 
all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon ; you may, if you please, 
add two anchovies pounded. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take some nice fresh mint, chop it very small, and mix it with 
vinegar and sugar. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Put two glasses of stock, shalots shred small, salt and pepper, into 
a saucepan, let them boil for half an hour, then add a tea-spoonful of 
mustard, stir it in well, and use it when required. 

ONION SAUCE. 

The onions must be peeled, and boiled till they are tender, then 
squeeze the water from them, chop them, and add butter that has 
been melted, rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of 
water; give it one boil, serve it with boiled rabbits, patridges, scrag 
or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton- a turnip boiled with the onions 
draws out the strength. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

In opening the oyster, save the liquor, and boil it with the beards, 
a bit of mace, and lemon peel ; in the meantime throw the oysters 
into cold water, and drain it off; strain the liquor, and put it into a 



32 HOW TO COOK, 

saucepan with the oysters just drained from the cold water, with 
sufficient quantity of butter, mixed with as much milk as will make 
enough sauce, but first rub a Ifttle flour with it ; set them over the 
fire, and stir all the while, and when the butter has boiled a few 
times, take them off, and keep them close to the fire, but not upon it, 
for if too much done, the oysters will become hard ; add a squeeze 
of lemon juice, and §erve ; a little is a great improvement. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Take a handful of parsley, and having washed and picked it, pound 
it well, and put it into a stewpan with some good cullis, set it on the 
fire, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour, then strain ; add a bit of 
butter rolled in flour, a liason, and a little lemonojuice. 

SALAD SAUCE. 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs into a basin, add to it a 
table-spoonful of made mustard, then add three table-spoonfuls of 
salad oil, mixing it in smooth ; add white pepper, cayenne, salt, dust 
of sugar, five spoonfuls of thick bechemel, a table-spoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar, the same of Chili vinegar, and two spoonfuls of common 
vinegar ; mix all well together with half a gill of cream. If this 
sauce is required for fish-salads, add a few drops of essence of ancho- 
vies, and sprinkle over the sauce a little fine-chopped parsley the last 
thing. 

SAUCE HARVEY. 

Chop twelve anchovies, bones and all, very small, with one ounce 
of cayenne pepper, six spoonfuls of soy, six ditto of good walnut 
pickle, three heads of garlic chopped not very small, a quarter of an 
ounce of cochineal, two heads of shalots chopped rather large, and 
one gallon of vinegar ; let it stand fourteen days, stir it well twice or 
thrice every day, then pass it through a jelly bag, and repeat this till 
it is quite clear ; then bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork. 

SAUCE MINCED. 

Put into a saucepan, parsley, shalots, champignons, of each a 
spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a little pepper ; set these 
on the fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, then add four 
laddlefuls of espagnole, and the same of stock ; reduce and take the 
fat from the sauce. When done put in a spoonful of capers, two 
gherkins shred, pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain 
marie ; just before it is sent to table, pound an anchovy or two with 
a little butter, which beat up with the sauce. 

HERBS, FINE SAUOE OF. 

Work up a piece of butler in some flour, melt it, and then put to 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 33 

it the following herbs :— shred parsley, scallions, tarragon, borage, 
garden cress, chervil ; boil them all together for about a quarter of 
an hour, add a glass of stock, and serve it very hot. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE, HOT. 

Slice two onions, and fry them in oil, and when they begin to col- 
or, put them in a saucepan with a glass of white wine, the same of 
broth, two slices of lemon peeled, two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, 
thyme, basil, and two cloves, boil these a quarter of an hour, and then 
strain it ; add capers and an anchovy chopped, pepper, salt, and a 
spoonful of horseradish boiled to a pulp, and warm the whole with- 
out boiling. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE, COLD. 

Chop up some parsley, chervil, shalots, a clove of garlic, capers, 
and anchovies ; to those add a spoonful of horseradish scraped very 
fine, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. 

LAMB SAUCE. 

Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley, and shalots, 
and boil it in a little stock and white wine, equal quantities ; a few 
minutes are sufficient, squeeze in a little lemon or orauge juice. 

LEMON SAUCE, WHITE, FOR BOILED FOWLS. 

Put the peel of a small lemon cut very thin into a pint of sweet 
rich cream, with a sprig of lemon thyme, and ten white peppercorns. 
Simmer it gently till it tastes well of the lemon, then strain it, and 
thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed in a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, and boil it up ; after this, pour the juice of the le- 
mon strained into it, stirring well ; then dish the fowls, and mix a lit- 
tle white gravy quite hot with the cream, but do not boil them to- 
gether ; add salt according to taste. 

LIVER SAUCE. 

Take the livers of poultry or game, chop them very small with 
parsley, scallions, tarragon leaves, and shalots ; soak them in a little 
butter over the fire, and then pound them, adding cullis stock, pepper 
and salt. Give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine, corian- 
der, cinnamon, and sugar, then reduce and strain it, thicken with a 
bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it in a sauce-boat. 

LIVER AND PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Wash the liver of a fowl or rabbit, which should be quite fresh, 
and boil it for ten minutes in five tea-spoonfuls of water, chop it fine, 
pound it or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor it was boiled 
in, and rub it through a hair sieve ; wash about one third its bulk of 



34 HOW TO COOK, 

parsley leaves, boil them in a little boiling water with a little salt in 
it, lay it on a sieve to drain, and chop it very fine, then mix it with 
the .liver, and put to it a quarter of a pint of melted butter, and warm 
it up, but do not let it boil. 

OYSTER SAUCE FOR ENTREES. 

Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, then make a white roux, to 
which add a few small onions, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions ; 
moisten with some of the oyster liquor, and a ladleful or two of con- 
somme, set it on a brisk fire, and when reduced, add a pint of cream, 
season it, let the sauce be tolerably thick, strain it through a sieve, put 
in the oysters, and use it with those articles where it is required, 
such as fowl, turkey, and chicken ; if served with fish, essence of an- 
chovies must be added to the above ingredients. 

SUPERIOR SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix six yolks of eggs with four spoonfuls of sifted sugar and butter 
mixed together ; have a pint of boiling cream, which you will mix 
with your yolks, afterwards put it on the fire, and stir it until it is of 
the consistency of sauce, then add to it a good wine-glass of brandy. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Obtain fresh tomatoes, and take out the stalk, press them all tightly 
down in a stewpan, cover them, put them on the fire, strain off the 
liquor that is drawn from them, and add to the tomatoes a slice of 
raw ham, two shalots, a few spoonfuls of good stock, let it stew for 
an hour, then rub it through a tammy sieve. Have in another stew- 
pan a little good brown sauce, put your tomatoes into it, boil all 
together, season with cayenne, salt, sugar, and lemon juice. 

SAUCE ITALIENNE. 

Put some lemon thyme, parsley, and mushrooms, shred small and 
fine, into a stewpan, with a little butter and a clove of garlic, set it 
on a moderate fire, and as soon as the butter begins to fry, pour in a 
little consomme, and let it stew till pretty thick, then take out the 
garlic, and add some butter sauce and a little lemon juice. 

SAUCE, SWEET. 

Put some cinnamon into a saucepan with as much water as will 
cover it, set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up once or twice, 
add two spoonfuls of pounded sngar, a quarter of a pint of white 
wine, and two bay leaves, give the whole one boil, and then strain it 
for table. 

SAUCE, UNIVERSAL. 

Take half a dozen split shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 35 

basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, half an ounce of bruised mustard 
seed, some Seville ,'orange peel, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the 
same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and two ounces 
of salt ; put all these ingredients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, 
half a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonfuls of vinegar, and a pint 
of white wine, put them into a jar, cover it as closely as possible, set 
it oh hot ashes for twenty-four hours, at the end of that time let it 
stand to settle, and when clear, pour it off, strain, and bottle it. 

SAUCE, WHITE. 

Beat up a quarter of a pound of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour, 
season with salt and pepper ; when well worked up, add a desert- 
spoonful of vinegar, and a little water, set these on the fire, and stir 
it till thick, but be careful not to let it boil 

TOMATO SAUCE FRANCAISE. 

Cut ten tomatoes into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with 
four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, and a quarter of 
a pound of butter ; set the saucepan on the fire, stirring occasionally, 
for three-quarters of an hour ; strain the sauce through a horse-hair 
sieve, and serve with the directed articles. 

TOMATO SAUCE A L'lTALIENNE. 

Take five or six ounces, slice and put them into a saucepan with a 
little thyme, bay leaf, twelve tomatoes, a bit of butter, salt, half a 
dozen allspice, a little Indian saffron, and a glass of stock ; set them 
on the fire, taking care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick ; when 
you perceive the sauce is thick, strain it like a puree. 

VENISON SAUCE. 

Serve with venison, currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port 
wine, or port wine warmed by itself. 

WALNUT KETCHUP FOR FISH SAUCE. 

Take a quart of walnut pickle, add to it a quarter of a pound of 
anchovies, and three quarters of a pint of red wine, and let it boil till 
reduced to one third, then strain it, and when cold, put it into small 
bottles and keep them closely corked. 

WINE MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Take a tea-spoonful of flour, and a preserved green lemon cut into 

dice, mix them with a glass of Madeira wine, and a little consomme, 

ounce of butter, some salt and nutmeg, set them on to boil for a 

nnarter of an hour, then take it off, put in a quarter of a pound of 

qu er, set it on the fire, stirring it until the butter is melted. 



36 NOW TO COOK, 

SAUCE, BROWN. 

Take a poirod or two of beefsteaks, two or three pounds of yea!, 
gome pickings of fowls, carrots, and onions, put all these into a sauce* 
pan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk fire ; when very little 
moisture remains, put it on a slow fire, that the jelly pay take color 
without burning, and as soon as it is brown, moisten it with' stock or 
water, add a bunch of green onions, two bay leaves, and two cloves, 
salt it well, and set it on the fire for three hours then strain ; dilute a 
little roux with your liquor, and let it boil an hour over a gentle fire, 
then take off all the fat and strain it through a bolting-cloth. 

CAPER SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Take some melted butter, into which throw a small bit of glaze, and 
when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into it some choice ca- 
pers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. 

CAPER SAUCE, TO IMITATE. 

Boil some parsley very slowly to let it become of a bad color, then 
cut it up, but not fine, put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful 
of salt, and a dessert spoonful of vinegar ; boil up and then serve. 

CALVES' BRAINS, WITH DIFFERENT SAUCES. 

Brains braised in wine and broth may be used with what sauces or 
ragout you please; such as fat livers, pigeons, sausages, onions, capers, 
fried bread. They take their name from the material with which they 
are mixed. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut three heads of fine white celery into two-inch lengths, keep 
them so, or shred them down as straws, then boil them a few minutes, 
strain them, return them into the stewpan, and put either some brown 
or white stock, and boil it until tender ; if too much liquor, reduce it 
by boiling ; then add either white or brown sauce to it, season it with 
sugar, cayenne pepper, and salt. 

CHERVIL SAUCE. 

Put a few mushrooms, parsley, chervils, shalots, two cloves, a bay 
leaf, and a few tarragon leaves, into some melted butter ; let them soak 
for some time, then atld a little broth, white wiue, pepper, salt, then re- 
duce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it : when done, put in 
some chervil scalded and chopped ; warm it all up together. 

COD SAUCE. 

Take a bunch of parsley, chervil, two shalots, two cloves, a bay 
leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of butter, soak all together on the 



AND HOW TO CARVE. '87 

fire, adding a small spoonful of flour, and milk or cream sufficient to 
boil to the consistence of a sauce ; also add to it some chopped pars- 
ley, first scalded. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Take two large cucumbers, pare them very carefully, and then cut 
them into lengths of about two inches round the ends, having done so, 
cut each length into four pieces, the seeds should be taken out, have a 
basin of vinegar and water ready, also pepper and salt ; as you cut 
them, put them into the basin, let them lie a quarter of an hour, take 
them out, put them into a stewpan with one onion, and a little brown 
stock ; boil it all until nearly dry, then put a few spoonfuls of brown 
sauce to it, the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, a little su- 
gar, pepper, and salt ; if for fine white sauce, add a gill of cream. 

DUTCH SAUCE. 

Place in a stewpan some scraped horse-radish, a sprig of thyme, a 
small onion, and two shalots, with sufficient vinegar to extract the es- 
sence of them : keep the lid on the stewpan while steeping. Have in 
another stewpan two yolks of raw eggs, with about two ounces of 
butter, and two table-spoonfuls of plain melted butter ; when all the 
roots are well run down, throw them into the other stewpan, put it on 
the fire, and stir till hot, but do not let it boil, then pass it through a 
tammy, and serve up, or pour over your fish, or whatever it may be re- 
quired for. 

EGO SAUCE. 

Boil three eggs hard, cut them in small squares, and mix them in 
good butter sauce ; make it very hot, and squeeze in some lemon juiefj 
before you serve it, 

FRESH PORK SAUCE. 

Cut two or three good sized onions into slices, and fry them lightly? 
then add a little broth, a few mushrooms chopped, a clove of garlic, 
Vinegar, and spice ; let it boil half an hour, reduce to a proper con- 
sistency, then skim and strain it. 

GARLIC SAUCE. 

Three or four garlics, divided, and boiled in a little white vinegar 
and white stock, with a small piece of lean ham ; when reduced, straiti 
it off, and add either white or brown sauce to the liquor ; season with 
Salt, pepper, and sugar ; but leave out the vinegar. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

A quart of cranberries are washed and stewed with sufficient water 



88 HOW TO COOK, 

to cover them ; when they burst mis with them a pound of brown su- 
gar and stir them well. Before you take them from the fire, all the 
berries should have burst. They will be jellied when cold. 

TO STEW CRANBERRIES. 

To a pound of cranberries allow a pound of sugar ; dissolve the su* 
gar in a very little water, boil it for ten minutes, and skim it well ; 
put them with the sugar and boil them slowly till they are quite soft. 

% BAKED APPLE SAUCE. 

Put a table-spoonful of water into a basin, and fill it with apples, 
pared, quartered, and cored : put them into a moderate oven, until 
they are reduced to a pulp ; beat them with a wooden spoon, adding a 
little sugar, and fresh butter. 

STEWED APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare and core some apples, put them into a preserve-pot, cover, and 
set it in a saucepan of water, to boil ; when soft, mix them with some 
butter, and sweeten with brown sugar. 

FORCEMEAT INGREDIENTS. 

Forcemeat should be made to cut with a knife, but not dry or 
heavy, no one flavor should predominate ; according to what it is 
wanted for a choice may be made from the following list ; — Be care- 
ful to use the least of those articles that are most pungent : cold fowl, 
Veal, or ham, scraped fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, 
white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs beaten to bind 
the mixture, which makes excellent forcemeat. Any of the following 
articles may be used to alter the taste : — oysters, anchovies, tarragon, 
savory, pennyroyal, marjoram, thyme, basil, yolks of hard eggs, cay» 
enne, garlic, shalots, endives, pepper in powder, or two or three 
Cloves. 

.FORCEMEATS, ETC, 

Cold fowl, veal, or mutton. Lobster, tarragon. 

Scraped ham, or gammon. Savoy, pennyroyal. 

Pat bacou, or fat ham. Knotted marjoram. 

Beef suet. Thyme and lemon thyme. 

Teal suet. Basil and sage. 

Butter. Lemon peel. 

Marrow. Yolks of eggs. 

Soaked bread, and crumbs of Whites and yolks of egg§. 

bread. Mace and cloves. 

Parsley and white pepper. Cayenne and garlic. 

Salt and nutmeg. Shalot and onion. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 39 

Cold soles. Chives and chervil. 

Oysters. Ground pepper and two or 

Anchovies. three cloves. 

BROWN COLORING FOR MADE DISHES. 

Take four ounces of sugar, beat it fine, put it into an iron frying- 
pan or earthen pipkin, set it over a clear fire, and when the sugar is 
melted it will be frothy, put it higher from the fire until it is a fine 
brown, keep it stirring all the time ; fill the pan up with red wine, 
and take care that it does not boil over ; add a little salt and lemon, 
put a little cloves and mace, a shalot or two, boil it gently for ten 
minutes, pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. 

MUSHROOM WHITE SAUCE. 

Have ready some cream sauce rather thinner than usual, to this 
put a few small white mushrooms, reduce it to the proper consistence, 
and it is then ready. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

To about half a pint of melted butter put two table-spoon fulls of 
good essence of anchovies, with the juice of half a lemon. Serve 
very hot. 



SALT AND FRESH WATER FISH. 

OBSERVATIONS ON CLEANING AND DRESSING PISH. 

Before dressing fish of any kind, great care should be taken that it 
is well washed and cleansed, but be cautious not to wash it too much, 
as the flavor is much diminished by too much water. When boiling 
fish, put a little salt and a little vinegar into the water to give it firm- 
ness. Be careful to let fish be well done, but not to let it break. 
When very fresh, cod and whiting are very much improved by keep- 
ing a day, and rubbing a little salt down the back-bone. Fresh- 
water fish often have a muddy smell and taste, which is easily got rid 
of by soaking it. After it has been thoroughly cleansed in strong 
salt and water, if the fish is not too large, scald it in the same, then 
dry and dress it. 

Put the fish in cold water, and let it boil very gently, or the outside 
will break before the inside is warm. Put all crimped fish into boil- 
ing water, and when it boils up, some cold water should be put into 
it to check it, and keep it simmering. All fish should be taken out 
of the. water the instant it is done, or it will become woollv. To as- 



40 sow no cook , 

certain when it is done, the fish-plate may be drawn up, and, if done, 
the meal will leave the bone, lo keep it hot, and to prevent it losing 
its color, the fish-plate should be placed across the fish-kettle, and a 
clean cloth put over the fish. 

Small fish may be nicely fried plain, or done with egg and bread 
crumbs, and then fried. On the dish on which the fish is to be served 
should be placed damask napkin, folded, and upon this put the fish, 
with the roe and liver ; then garnish the dish with horse-radish, parsley, 
and lemon. 

To broil or fry fish nicely, after it is well washed, it should be put 
in a cloth, and when dry, wetted with egg and bread crumbs. It will 
be much improved by being wetted with egg and crumbs a second 
time. Then have your pan ready with plenty of boiling dripping or 
lard, put your fi^k into it, and let it fry rather quickly till it is of a 
nice brown and appears done. If it is done before being nicely brown- 
ed, it should be taken from the pan, and placed on a sieve before the 
fire to drain and brown. If wanted very nice, put a sheet of cajp 
paper to receive the fish. Should you fry your fish in oil, it obtains 
a much finer color than when done in lard or dripping. Never use 
butter, as it makes the fish a bad color. Garnish your dish with green 
or fried parsley. 

In broiling fish, be careful that your gridiron is clean ; place it on 
the fire, and when hot rub it over with suet, to hinder the fish from 
sticking, The fish must be floured and seasoned before broiling. It 
must be broiled over a clear fire only, and great care must be taken 
that it does not burn or become smoky. 

Broiled fish for breakfast should always be skinned, buttered, and 
peppered. 

Fish are boiled, fried, broiled, baked, stewed, in fact cooked in 
every imaginable fashion ; those named are the chief methods. In 
every kind the greatest attention and cleanliness must be exercised. 
A broken, disfigured, abrased, or ill-cooked dish of fish presented at 
table, is quite sufficient to destroy the taste for it for ever ; on the 
contrary, when neatly done, it heightens the relish which every one 
possesses more or less, and imparts an appetite where one may be 
wanting, while the cook is held in grateful remembrance. 

TO CHOOSE FISH. 

Salmon, The fish stiff, the scales very bright, the belly thick, the 
gills a brilliant color, and the flesh when cut a beautiful red, will 
prove it to be a fine fresh fish. It cannot be too fresh. 

Cod, The best fish are thick at the neck, very red gills, firm white 
flesh, bright, and blood-shot eyes, and small head. 

Herrings. Tery red gills, blood-shot eyes, very bright scales, and 
the fish stiff, shows them to be good and fresh. 

Flounders may be chosen as above. 



AND HOW fO CAfcVE. 41 

Mackerel. Bright eyes, thick bodies, the prismatic colors very 
predominant on the belly, denote freshness and goodness. 

Pike, Ac, may be judged by the above rules. 

Eels. The silver eel, is the best ; the bright-hued belly and thick- 
ness of back are the guides in selection. 

SHELL FISH. 

Lobsters. To be had in perfection should be boiled at home ; 
choose the heaviest. When they are boiled the tail should have a 
good spring ; the cock lobster has a narrow tail in which the two 
uppermost fins are stiff and hard ; the hen has a broad tail, and these 
fins are softer. The male has the best flavor 5 the flesh is firmer, and 
the color when broiled is brighter than the hen. 

Crabs, like lobsters, should be selected by weight ; when prime, 
the leg-joints are stiff and the scent pleasant. 

Shrimps should be bright and the bodies firm and stiff; when limp 
and soft they are stale. 

Oysters. There are many sorts of oysters ; when the oyster is 
alive the shell will close upon the knife ; the common oyster should 
be used for sauce, and the others, of which there are several kinds, 
should be sent to table. 

a few choice dishes for top removes," entrees, salads, etc, cold, 
Plai and crimp cod. 
Smelts fried. 

Broiled mackerel and fennel sauce. 
Boiled mackerel and fennel sauce. 
Pried flounders and shrimp sauce. 
Boiled flounders and anchovy sauce. 
Pike boiled and stuffed, and anchovy sauce. 
Pike baked and stuffed, and anchovy sauce. 
Salmon boiled and broiled, and lobster sauce. 
Salmon with capers. 
Salmon cutlets. 
Salmon in papers 
Salmon in quenelles. 
Salmon in curry. 

Pillets of mackerel, maitre d'hote!. 
Slices of cod with capers. 
Slices of cod with oyster sauce. 
Slices of cod with curry. 
Eels stewed and fried. p 

COD, DOILED. 

The thickness of this fish being very unequal, the head and sliotiP 
ders greatly preponderating, it is seldom boiled whole, because, in n 



42 HOW TO COOK, 

large fish, the tail, from its thinness in comparison to the upper part 
of the fish, would be very much overdone. Whenever it is boiled 
whole, a small fish should be selected. Tie up the head and shoulders 
well, place it in the kettle with enough cold water to completely cover 
it ; cast in a handful of salt. The fish, if a small one, will be cook- 
ed in twenty minutes after it has boiled ; if large, it will take half an 
hour. 

When done enough, drain it clear of the scum, and remove the 
string ; send it to table garnished with the liver, the smelt, and the 
roe of the fish, scraped horseradish, lemon sliced, and sprigs of pars- 
ley. 

The garnish sometimes consists of oysters fried, or small fish fried, 
or whitings : this is at the option of the cook. 

Anchovy or oyster sauce is served with it. . 

The tail, when separated from the body of the fish, may be cooked 
in a variety of fashions. Some salt rubbed into it, and hanging it 
two days, will render it exceedingly good when cooked. It may be 
spread open and throughly salted, or it may be cut into fillets, and 
fried. 

If the cod is cooked when very fresh, some salt should be rubbed 
down the back and the bone before boiling ; it much improves the 
flavor ; or, if hung for a day, the eyes of the fish should be removed, 
and salt filled in the vacancies. It will be found to give firmness to 
the fish, and add to the richness of the flavor. 

COD SCALLOPED. 

Take enough cold dressed cod to nearly fill all the shells you pur- 
pose using, pound it, beat up the yolk of an egg and pour over it, add 
a few shrimps skinned, salt, pepper, and a little butter ; do not quite 
fill the shells, strew over them fine bread crumbs, and drop butter in 
a liquid state over them. Brown them before the fire in a Dutch 
oven. 

TAIL OF A COD. 

Boil as previously directed, and when sufficiently done, that the 
meat may de easily removed from the bones, divide it into moderate 
sized pieces, and in a light batter fry them brown. Send up crisped 
parsley with it as a garnish. 

It is sometimes cooked plainly with oyster sauce. 

BAKED COD. 

Cut a large fine piece out of the middle of the fish, and skin it 
carefully; stuff it with a stuffing composed of the yolks of two eggs 
boiled hard, the roe half-boiled, bread crumbs, grated lemon-peel, but- 
ter, pepper, and salt to taste. Blind it with the undressed white of 
an egg, and sew in the stuffing with white thread, bake it in a Dutch 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 43 

oven before the fire, turn it frequently, and baste it with butter ; serve 
with shrimp sauce, plain butter, or oyster sauce. A tin baking-dish 
is preferable to any other for cooking this fish. 

cod's head. • 

Secure it well with strong string, not too thick ; put it into a fish- 
kettle, cover it with water, and put in a small handful of salt, a wine- 
glassful of vinegar, and a quantity of scraped horseradish. Place the 
fish upon a drainer, and when the water boils, put it into the kettle. 
Boil gently ; when the fire rises to the surface, it is enough ; drain it, 
and be very particular in sliding the fish into the fish-plate that it is 
not broken. Garnish with scraped horseradish and lemon. Serve 
with shrimp and oyster sauce. 

COD FISH PIE. 

Take a piece from the middle of a good sized fisk, salt it well all 
night, then wash it, and season with salt, pepper, and a few grains of 
nutmeg, a little chopped parsley and some oysters, put all iu your 
dish, with pieces of butter on the fish ; add a cup of good second 
white stock and cream ; cover it with a good crust, adding a little 
lemon juice in the gravy. 

CURRY OF COD. 

This is a firm fish if good ; when cold, you can seperate the flakes, 
and proceed as before, adding two dozen of large oysters to your 
fish. 

SALT COD. 

There are a variety of opinions upon the method of dressing this 
dish, many laboring so hard with soaking and brushing, to produce 
tenderness, and accomplishing that one end at the expense of the 
flavor. It is doubtless an essential point to remove the dry unwhole- 
some hardness of the fish, but it is equally essential to retain the fla- 
vor, and experience has taught the author that the following process 
is the most successful of any he has hitherto attempted : — 

Soak the fish for eight hours in clean cold water (not spring water.) 
let the water have enough vinegar in it to impregnate it with a slight 
flavor and no more after soaking the above time, take it out and let, 
it drain three or four hours, then put it in soak again for four hours ; 
when this has been done, place it in a fish-kettle with plenty of cold 
soft water, let it come to a boil very slowly, place it on the side of 
the fire, and it will cook gradually until enough. Serve with pars- 
nips and egg sauce. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Wash and soak the fish, lay it twelve hours in water in which two 



44 HOW TO COOK, 

wine-glasses of vinegar have been poured, put the fish in cold water 
in the fish-kettle, bring it gradually to a boil, and then boil slowly 
until enough ; take it out, drain it, break it into flakes upon a dish, 
beat up boiled parsnips and pour over it, boil up with cream and a 
good sized piece of butter rubbed in flour. Serve with egg or pars- 
nip sauce ; if the latter" send the root up whole. 

CURRIED GOD. 

Cut some handsome steaks of cod, slice a number of onions, and fry 
both a good brown color, stew the fish in white gravy, add a large 
tea-spoonful of curry powder, a third that quantity of cayenne pepper, 
thicken with three spoonfuls of cream, a little butter, a pinch of salt, 
and a little flour. 

COD FRICASEED. 

Take the sounds, scald them and cut them into small pieces, if 
they have been dried, boil them until they are tender, take some roes 
and the liver, blanch the roes, cut them into pieces an inch thick, and 
an equal quantity of the liver, boil for the middle of a fine piece of 
Cod, put them into a stewpan, season with grated nutmeg, a little 
pounded mace, an onion, a few sweet herbs, a sprinkle of salt, and 
add half a pint of boiling water (fish broth is better if convenient,) 
cover down close, stew for seven or eight minutes, then add four glass- 
es of port, six oysters with the liquor strained, and a piece of butter 
floured ; stew gently, shaking the pan round occasionally until they 
are done enough, remove the onion and the herb3, dish up, garnish 
with lemon, and serve. 

COD SOUNDS, RAGOUT. 

The sounds should not be much soaked, but thoroughly cleaned, 
simmer them for a short time, broil them, having first floured them ; 
When they are just tender, stew them in white gravy which has been 
well seasoned, add a little cream, a bit of butter, a spoonful of flour, 
give it a boil, flavor with nutmeg, a small piece of lemon peel, a dash 
of pounded mace, and serve. 

SLICES OF COD. 

Three slices make a small dish ; put them in a baking-dish, cover 
them over with some good second stock, a little essence of anchovies; 
when done, thicken the stock, and pass it through a tammy, pour it 
over your fish, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, and lemon juice; 
if. for capers, add them ; if for maitred 'hotel, add cream and parsley 
shopped fine. 

cod sounds, soiled. 

Af boiled they should first be soaked in warm water, or scalded in 



AND HOW TO CARTE. 45 

hot water ; the latter is the quickest, the former is the surest method; 
they should soak half an hour if put into warm water, the dirty skin 
should be removed, and when thoroughly cleaned, boiled in equal 
parts of milk and water until tender. They should be sent to table 
with egg sauce. 

CRIMPED COD. 

Cut the cod, which should be quite fresh, in handsome slices, and 
lay it for about three hours in spring water salted, adding a little 
vinegar, say one wine-glassful ; make a fish kettle more than three 
parts full of spring water, in which a large handful of salt has been 
thrown, let it boil quickly, put in the cod, and keep it boiling for ten 
minutes, it will then be done enough ; take up the slices of fish, gar- 
nish with sprigs of parsley, sliced lemon, and horseradish scraped in- 
to curls ; serve with shrimp and oyster sauce. 

STEWED COD. 

Cut some of the finest pieces from the thickest part of the fish, 
place them in a stewpan with a lump of butter the size of a walnut, 
or larger, three or four blades of mace, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, a 
small bunch of sweet herbs, and some oysters, with a little of their 
own liquor. When nearly done, add a large wine-glass of sherry, and 
stew gently until enough. 

HERRINGS. 

Herrings are dressed in a variety of fashions ; they are fried, boil- 
ed, broiled, potted, baked, smoked, pickled. 

There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and red herrings ; 
they are cleaned like any other sort of fish. When fresh, they are 
boiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted 
herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked, this is 
broiled, but sometimes it is cut in pieces and eaten raw. The red 
herring is split down the back, the head and tail taken off, and the 
fish broiled like the others ; they may be also dressed in the following 
manner : when they have laid in cold water some time, soak them in 
milk for two hours, then split them down the back, have ready some 
melted butter in which has been mixed basil and bay leaf minced 
small, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and nutmeg, rub the herrings 
well with this butter, then broil them over a gentle fire, and serve 
with lemon juice. The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and 
large, and have a yellow cast ; if the fresh herrings are good the 
scales are bright, the eye is full, the gill red, and the fish should be 
stiff. 

FRESH HERRINGS BAKED. 

Wash the herrings in clear spring water, and when they are 



46 HOW TO COOK, 

thoroughly clean, drain them, and then, without wiping them, lay 
them in a dish or baking-pan ; pepper and salt them, chop finely two 
or three onions, some parsley, thyme, and strew over them ; cover 
them in equal proportions of vinegar and small beer ; tie them over, 
and let them bake one hour in a slow oven. They should be kept in 
the pickle, and make a pleasant dish when cold. 

FRESH HERRINGS BOILED. 

Clean them, wash them over with vinegar, fasten the heads to the 
tails, and put them in boiling water ; they will take, from ten to 
twelve minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve melted butter, in 
which a table spoonful of ketchup, a tea-spoonful of Chili vinegar, 
and one of made mustard has been mixed while making. 

FRESH HERRINGS BROILED. 

To broil them, steep them first in vinegar and water into which a 
handful of salt has been thrown ; let them remain ten minutes, then 
take them out and broil them over a clear fire (the bars of the grid- 
iron should be rubbed with suet, to prevent the skin of the fish ad- 
hering to it.) Serve, garnished with parsley. They may be eaten 
with melted butter, with a little mustard and vinegar in it, or lemon 
juice instead of the latter, being preferable. 

FRESH HERRINGS FRIED. 

Slice small onions, and lay in the pan with the fish, or fry seper- 
ately, as judgment may dictate ; serve the fish with the onions laid 
round them. The herrings are generally fried without the onions, 
but those who are partial to this strongly-flavored vegetable will pre- 
fer the addition. 

TO POT HERRINGS. 

Take from one to two dozen herrings, according to the number you 
purpose potting ; choose them as large, fine, and fresh as you can. 
Take two ounces of salt, one of saltpetre, two of allspice, reduce them 
to an impalpable powder, and rub them well into the herrings ; let 
them remain with the spice upon them eight hours to drain, wipe off 
the spice clean, and lay them on a pan on which butter has been 
rubbed ; season with nutmeg, mace, pepper, salt, and one clove in 
powder, one ounce each, save the last ; lay in two or three bay leaves, 
cover with butter and bake gently three hours. When cool, drain off 
the liquor, pack the fish in the pots intended for their use, cover to 
the depth of half an inch with clarified butter, sufficiently melted just 
to run, but do not permit it to be hot ; they will be ready for eating 
in two days. 



AND BOW TO CARVE. 47 

LOBSTER CURRIED. 

Take the meat of a fine lobster, or two, if small, place in a stew- 
pan two dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, add two ounces of butter, 
an onion cut in very tine strips, and three dessert-spoonfuls of fish 
stock. When they are stewed well, add the lobster, simmer gently an 
hour, squeeze iu half a lemon, and reason with a little salt. 

LOBSTER STEWED. 

Extract from the shells of two lobsters, previously boiled, all of the 
meat ; take two-thirds of a quart of water, and stew the shells in it, 
with mace, unground pepper, and salt. Let it boil an hour or more, 
till you have obtained all that is to be got from them ; then strain. 
Add the richest portions of the lobster, and some of the best of the 
firm meat, to some thin melted butter ; squeeze a little lemon juice in- 
to it , add a table-spoonful of Madeira, pour this into the gravy, and 
when warmed it is ready to serve. 

LOBSTER BUTTER. 

The hen lobster should be selected, on account of the coral , take 
out the meat and spawn, and bruise it in a mortar ; add to it a tea- 
spoonful of white wine, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little 
grated lemon peel ; add four ounces of butter, slightly dusted over 
with flour. Work this well together, and rub it through a hair sieve. 
It should be kept in a cool place till ready to serve. 

TO ROAST LOBSTERS. 

Take a live lobster, half boil it, take it from the kettle in which it 
is boiling, dry it with a cloth, and while hot, rub it over with butter, 
and set it before a good firs, basting it with butter ; when it produces 
a fiue froth, it is done, Serve with melted butter. 

MACKEREL. 

Clean the fish thoroughly, remove the roe, steep it in vinegar and 
water, and replace it ; pface the fish in water from which the chill has 
been taken, and boil very slowly from fifteen to twenty minutes ; the 
best criterion is the starting of the eyes and splitting of the tail — 
when that takes place, the fish is done ; take it out instantly, or you 
will not preserve it whole. Garnish with parsley, and chopped pars- 
ley in melted butter, serve up as sauce. 

TO BAKE MACKEREL. 

Open and clean thoroughly, wipe very dry, pepper and salt the in- 
side, and put in a stuffing composed of powdered bread crumbs, the 
roe chopped small, parsley, and sweet herbs, but very few of the lat- 
ter, work these together with the yolk of an egg, pepper and salt to 



48 NOW TO COOK, 

taste, and sew it in the fish ; then place the latter in a deep baking 
dish, and dredge it with flour slightly, adding a little cold butter in 
small pieces, put the fish into an oven, and twenty-eight or thirty min- 
utes will suffice to cook them. Send them in a hot dish to table, with 
parsley and butter. 

TO BROIL MACKEREL. 

Cleanse it well, and cut with a sharp knife a gash from head to 
tail, just sufficient on one side to clear the backbone, pass into the in- 
cision a little pepper (cayenne) and salt, moistened with clarified but- 
ter, broil it over a clear fire, but be particular that the bars of the 
gridiron are well rubbed over with suet, to prevent the skin of the 
mackerel adhering in turning ; the sides being the thinnest part, they 
will be first done ; therefore, when they are done, take the fish off the 
gridiron, and hold it in front of the fire for five minutes, the back of 
the fish being next the fire, and the fish will be thoroughly done ; this 
is the readiest and most effective mode. The sauce may be the same 
as for boiled mackerel, or sauce a la maitre d'hotel. 

FILLETS OP MACKEREL. 

Take the fish in fillets from the bones lengthways, and divide each 
into two or three pieces, according to the size of the fish. Put into 
a stewpan a pint offish broth, and if not seasoned in the making suf- 
ficiently, add a little cayenne and salt to taste, chop finely a little 
parsley, part of the rind of a green lemon, if to be obtained, if not, as 
young a one as can be got, add it to the broth, lay on the fillets, and 
stew ten or twelve minutes. About three minutes before the fillets 
are done, add one glass of port wine, one of Harvey's sauce, half the 
quantity of soy, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon. When the fil- 
lets are done, which will be observable in the disposition of the thin- 
ner parts beginning to crack, dish tenderly, thicken the sauce, add a 
little mixed mustard, and pour it over the fillets. Garnish with pic- 
kles, or fried bread sippets. 

FILLETS BOILED. 

Separate as before place them in a stewpan in luke warm water, 
and put in a pinch of salt and a little parsley ; when they have boiled 
five minutes they will be done ; this may be tried by seeing if the 
flesh dividesreadily. Remove the scum as fast as it rises, and draim 
the fillets before dishing them. Serve with parsley and butter. 

TO FRY MACKEREL. 

It may be observed, as a rule, to prevent the too frequent repeti- 
tion of the same thing, that it is to be supposed the fish must be tho- 
roughly cleaned and gutted, unless directions to the contrary are giv- 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 49 

en ; supposing then the flsh have been cleaned and emptied, cut off 
the tails, and with a sharp knife lay the fish completely open, and re- 
move the back-bone ; this feat should be skilfully performed, or the 
appearance of the fish will be materially altered, and by no means im- 
proved. Dry the mackerel thoroughly, sprinkle with powdered salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and when the lard in the fryingpan is 
boiling, lay them in, and fry them a clear brown. Serve with melted 
butter, in which has been mixed one spoonful of Harvey's sauce, one 
ditto of mustard, and two of Chili vinegar ; or boil half a dozen small 
onions, and while boiling rapidly, lay in a young cucumber one min- 
ute, with a faggot of fennel and parsley. Chop the latter finely, and 
cut the cucumber into shapes, add pepper and salt, put them into a 
stewpan with a lump of butter for three or four minutes, then place 
the vegetables on the fish, and squeeze a large lemon over them. 

OYSTERS. 

f Procure a barrel of oysters, packed as for transmission to the coun- 
try. Put into a vessel large enough to contain the barrel sufficient 
water, that when the barrel is in, it may be covered. Heat the water 
to a boil ; when it is boiling, put in the barrel of oysters just as you 
have received it ; let it boil twelve minutes ; take it out, knock off 1 
the head, and serve immediately. The flavor of the hot oyster will 
be found delicious. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 

Large oysters not opened, a few minutes before they are wanted, 
put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire. When done they will 
open, do not lose the liquor that is in the shell with the oysters ; serve 
them hot upon a napkin. 

AN OYSTER PIE, WITH SWEETBREADS. 

Blanch them, and take off the beards ; separate them from the li- 
quor, blanche some throat sweetbreads, and when cold, cut them in 
slices, then lay them and the oysters in layers in your dish, and sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and a few grains of mace and nutmeg ; add 
some thick sauce, a little cream, and the oyster liquor, and some good 
veal stock ; bake in a slow oven. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

The oysters should be bearded and rinsed in their own liquor, 
which should then be strained and thickened with flour and butter, 
and placed with the oysters in a stewpan ; add mace, lemon peel cut 
into shreds, and some white pepper whole ; these ingredients had bet- 
ter be confined in a piece of muslin. The stew must simmer only, if 



50 HOW TO COOK, 

it is suffered to boil, the oysters will become hard ; serve with sippets 
of bread. This may be varied by adding a glass of wine to the li- 
quor, before the oysters are put in and warmed. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Beard the oysters, wash in their own liquor, steep bread crumbs 
in the latter, put them with the oysters into scallop shells, with a bit 
of butter, and seasoning of salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; 
make a paste with bread crumbs and butter ; cover, and roast them 
before the iire, or in an oven. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Beard, dip them into an omelette, sprinkle well with crumbs of 
bread, and fry them brown. 

PIKE TO CHOOSE. 

If fresh, the gills will be red, the fish stiff, and eyes bright ; the 
best sort are caught in rivers, the worst in ponds ; it is a very dry 
fish and very much improved by stuffing and sauce. 

TO BAKE PIKE. 

Clean and empty the fish thoroughly, but do not disturb the scales 
in the operation, stuff it with oyster forcemeat, and skewer the tail 
to the mouth, sprinkle over it a little salt, and dredge a little flour, 
stick small pieces of butter over it, and bake in a steady oven forty 
to fifty minutes ; this must be regulated by the size of the fish. To 
the sauce which will be found in the dish when the pike is done, a lit- 
tle melted butter with a spoonful of essence of anchovies may be add- 
ed, and a small quantity of grated lemon peel or lemon pickle ; also 
a table-spoonful of sherry, one of Harvey's sauce, and a little cayenne, 
will render the gravy exceedingly pleasant. 

PIKE, TO BOIL. 

Wash and clean the fish thoroughly ; unless you are very particu- 
lar in this, you will not conquer an earthy taste, which, from a want 
of the proper application of the cook's art, too often appears. It is 
usual to stuff it with forcemeat, more for the purpose of destroying 
that peculiarity than from any additional flavor or zest it gives the 
fish. Having cleaned well and stuffed with forcemeat, skewer the 
head to the tail, lay it upon a drainer and put it in the fish-kettle, let 
it have plenty of water, into which you may throw a handful of salt 
and a glassful of vinegar ; when it boils, remove the scum as fast as 
it rises ; it will take three quarters of an hours dressing, if a tolera- 
ble size ; if very large, an hour ; if small, half an hour ; serve with 
melted butter and lemon sliced or whole. Anchovy sauce may be 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 51 

eaten with the fish. It is always the best method, where a variety of 
fancies exist, to send the sauce-cruets to table, and permit every one 
to gratify his peculiar taste. 

TO BAKE A SHAD. 

Empty and wash the fish with care, but do not open it more thau 
is necessary, and keep on the head and fins. Then stuff it with force- 
meat. Sew it up, or fasten it with fine skewers, and rub the fish 
over with the yolk of egg and a little of the stuffiing. 

Put into the pan in which the fish is to be baked, about a gill of 
wine, or the same quantity of water mixed with a table-spoonful of 
Cayenne vinegar, or common vinegar will do. Baked in a moderate 
oven 1 1-2 or 2 hours, or according to its size. 

TO BROIL SHAD. 

This delicate and delicious fish is excellent broiled. Clean, wash, 
and split the shad, wipe it dry and sprinkle it with pepper and salt — 
broil it like makeral. 

TO FRY SHAD. 

Clean the fish, cut off the head, and split it down the back ; save 
the roe and eggs when taking out the entrails. Cut the fish in pieces 
about three inches wide, rinse each in cold water, and dry on a cloth ; 
use wheat flour to rub each piece. Have ready hot salted lard and 
lay in the fish, inside down, and friy till of a fine brown, then turn 
and fry the other side. Fry the roe and egg with the fish. 

TO BAKE A SHAD, ROCK-FISH, OR BASS. 

Clean the fish carefully, sprinkle it lightly with salt and let it lie a 
a few minutes ; then wash it, season it slightly with Cayenne pepper 
and salt, and fry it gently a light brown. Prepare a seasoning of 
bread crumbs, pounded mace and cloves, majoram, parsley, Cayenne 
pepper and salt ; strew it over and in the fish ; let it stand an hour. 
Put it in a deep dish, and set it in the oven to bake ; to a large fish, 
put in the dish half pint of water, one pint of wine, Port and Ma- 
deira mixed, half tea-cupful of mushrooms or tomato ketchup ; to a 
small one allow in proportion the same ingredients ; baste frequently, 
and garnish with sliced lemon. 

DRESSED CRAB. 

The white part of the crab forms a wall within the dish, the yellow 
part of the crab is mixed with vinegar, mustard, &c, so as to form 
a pool within. 

DRESSED CRAB. 

Another way— Get a large crab, take off the claws, then pull 00 



52 HOW TO COOK, 

the body from the shell, the white meat, keep by itself, and the soft 
yellow meat by itself, wash and trim the large black shell, then ou 
one side put all the white meat, and on the the other side put the soft 
meat, dividing the two with slices of cucumber or radishes. Crack 
the big bones or claws, and lay them underneath the crab to stand 
upou. Dish it up on a napkin. 

CRABS — TO DRESS CRABS. 

Scoop the meat from the shell, mix the meat into a paste with a 
little vinegar, bread crumbs, grated nutmeg, and a little butter, or 
sweet oil ; return it into the shell, and serve. To serve this hot, it 
should be heated before the fire, and served up with dry toast cut 
into large squares or dice. 

BAKED CRABS 

Remove the meat from the shell, mix it with bread crumbs — about 
one-fourth will be sufficient ; add white pepper, salt, a little cayenne, 
grated nutmeg, and half a, dozen small lumps of butter, each about 
the size of a nut ; this last ingredient should be added to the fish, af- 
ter it had been returned to the shell. Squeeze lemon juice over it ; 
lay a thick coat of bread crumbs over all, and bake. 

COLLARED EELS. 

The eels destined to be dressed as above should be the finest which 
can be selected : the skin must not be removed, but the bone must be 
carefully and cleverly extracted. Spread out the fish, and with some 
finely-chopped sage, parsley, and mixed spices, rub the fish well over; 
then take some broad white tape, and bind up the fish tightly ; throw 
a good handful of salt into the water in which it is to be boiled, and 
a couple of bay leaves. Boil three quarters of an hour, aud if the 
fish be taken out and hung to dry for twelve hours, it will be better 
for it when served. Add to the water in which the fish has been 
boiled a pint of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and some knotted mar- 
joram or thyme. This pickle also should, after boiling about twelve 
minutes, besufiered to stand as long as the eels are recommended to 
be hung; previous to serving, the fish must be unrolled so as to abrase 
the skin as little as possible, and put them into the pickle. Send up 
in slices or whole, according to taste ; garnish with parsley. 

EELS BREAD-CRUMBED. 

Cut your fish the size as before, dry and flour them, and proceed 
as for other fried fish, dishing them on a napkin with fried parsley. 

FRIED EELS. 

Cut into pieces same length as above, cleaned nicely and well-dried; 
let them be coated with yolk of egg, powdered with bread crumbs ; 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 53 

fry them brown ; serve with parsley and butter, and garnish with 
handsome sprigs of parsley. 

BOILED EEL. 

Choose the smallest, simmer in a small quantity of water, into 
which a quantity of parsley has been put. Garnish and serve with 
same sauce as the last. 

EELS STEWED. 

Procure six or seven large ones, and proceed, after having cut 
them about three inches in length, as for carp, leaving out the wine 
until last, add to your sauce some very fine chopped parsley, and a 
shalot, aud pour the sauce over the fish. 

EELS STEWED. 

This is a dish frequently made for invalids, and to the taste of ma* 
ny, fitted always to appear on the table of an emperor : there are va- 
rious methods of stewing them, but the simplest is always the best 
because, without exception, the flavour of the fish is preserved, when, 
in too many cases, it is wholly destroyed by the number of ingredi- 
ents employed ; indeed the skill of the professed cook is most frequent- 
ly exerted to give the various esculents they prepare for the table an 
opposite taste to that which they naturally possess. 

To stew eels, they should be cut in pieces about three inches long, 
and fried until they are about half cooked ; they will be then brown : 
let them get cold, take some good beef gravy, and an onion, parsley, 
plenty of white pepper, a little salt, some sage chopped very fine, 
enough only to add to the flavour, and a little mace, place the eels in 
this gravy, and stew until they are tender ; two anchovies may be 
finely chopped and added, with two tea-spoonfuls of mustard, already 
made, some walnut ketchup, and a glass of red wine : serve with sip- 
pets of toasted bread. Or after being stewed until tender, a glass of 
port wine may be added, half a lemon squeezed into it : strain and 
thicken with butter and flour. 

HALIBUT 

May be cut in fillets, and dressed as mackerel fillets. 

HALIBUT STEWED. 

Put in a stewpan half a pint of fish broth, a table-spoonful of vin- 
egar, and one of mushroom ketchup ; add an anchovy, two good sized 
onions cut in quarters, a bunch of sweet herbs, and one clove of gar» 
lie also add a pint and a half of water, and let it stew an hour and a 
quarter, then strain it oS" clear, and put into it the head and should" 
ers of a fine halibut and stew until tender ; thicken with butter and 
flour, and serve. 



54 HOW TO COOK, 



HALIBUT COLLOPED. 

Cut the fish into nice cutlets, of about an inch thick, and fry them; 
then put them into a broth made of the bones, four onions, a stick of 
celery, and a buudle of sweet herbs, boiled together for one half an 
hour. 

STURGEON BOILED. 

Soak the fish in salt and water four hours, remove it, and bathe 
with pyroligneous acid diluted with water, let it drain an hour, then 
put it into boiling water, let it be r well covered, add three onions, a 
faggot of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of bay-salt. When it is 
boiled so tender that the bones will separate readily, remove it from 
the fire, take away bones and skin, cut it into slices, dredge it with 
flour, brown it before the fire, and serve with a gravy, the same as 
given above for roasting. 

STURGEON BROILED. 

Cut a fine piece of the fish, and skinning it, divide it into slices 
Beat up three eggs, and dip each of the slices into them ; powder fine 
bread crumbs mixed with finely-chopped parsley, pepper and salt over 
them, fold them in paper, and broil them, being careful that the fire 
is clear. Send them to table with essence of anchovies and soy, ac- 
companied by cold butter. 

BEFORE YOU BAKE STURGEON. 

Let it lie several hours in salt and water ,then boil it until the bones 
can be removed ; pour vinegar over your fish and in the water and 
salt. When done, take it out to cool, then egg and bread-crumb it, 
then sprinkle clarified butter over it, place it in a moderate hot oven 
to brown ; make a very thick sauce from your kidneys and good stock 
with a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, season it with cayenne 
pepper, salt, dust of sugar, juice of lemon, and a glass of wine. 

TO BOIL HALIBUT. 

Take a halibut, or what you require. Put it into the fish-kettle 
with the back of the fish undermost, cover it with cold water, in 
which a handful of salt, and a bit of saltpetre the size of a hazel nut, 
have been dissolved. When it begins to boil, skim it carefully, and 
then let it just simmer till it is done. Four pounds of fish will re- 
quire nearly thirty minutes, to boil it. Drain it, garnish with horse- 
radish — egg sauce or plain melted butter, are served with it. 

SALMON, TO BOIL. 

This fish cannot be cooked too soon after being caught ; it should be 
put into a kettle with plenty of cold water, and a handful of salt ; the 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 55 

addition of a small quantity of vinegar will add to the firmness of the 
fish ; let it boil gently. For four pounds of salmon, fifty minutes will 
be enough ; if thick, a few minutes more may be allowed. The best 
way to ascertain whether it be done is to pass a knife between the 
bone and the fish, if it separates readily, it is done ; this should be 
tried in the thickest part. When cooked, lay it on the fish-strainer, 
transversely across the kettle, so that the fish, while draining, may be 
kept hot. Place a fish-plate upon tne'dish on which the salmon is to 
be served, fold a clean white napkin, lay it upon the fish-plate, and 
place the salmon upon the napkin. Garnish with parsley. 

SALMON BROILED. 

Cut the fish in inch slices from the best part, season well with pep" 
per and salt ; wrap each slice in white paper, which has been buttered 
with fresh butter,; fasten each end by twisting or tying ; broil over a 
very clear fire eight minutes. A coke fire, if kept clear and bright, is 
best. Serve with butter, anchovy, or tomato sauce. 

DRIED SALMON BROirED. 

Cut and cook as above, save that when it is warmed through it is 
enough. Serve plain, if for breakfast, or with egg sauce, if for din- 
ner. 

SALMON ROASTED. 

Take a large piece of the middle of a very fine salmon, dredge well 
with flour, and while roasting baste it with butter. Serve, garnished 
with lemon. 

STEWED SALMON, 

Scrape the scales clean off, cut it in slices, stew them in rich white 
gravy, add, immediately previous to serving, one table-spoonful of es- 
sence of anchovies, a little parsley, chopped very fine, and a pinch of 
salt. 

DRESSED SALMON. 

All salmon, whether crimped, split, or in slices, should go through 
the same process in dressing, but you can vary your sauces as may be 
most approved of. 

Put your salmon either in a fish-kettle, or a large baking-dish ; if a 
dish, you must cover it with butter paper, and frequently baste it 
with the marinda, which is made thus ; cut a carrot, turnip, celery, 
onions, sweet herbs, two blades of mace, whole pepper, six cloves, a 
bay leaf, six anchovies, a cup of vinegar, a quart of good brown 
second stock, two glasses of sherry ; then put on your salmon, letting 
it stew until done, then drain off all the stock from the fish, and thick- 



56 HO T ,f TO COOK, 

en it and strain it through a tammy ; if for capers, add them in the 
sauce you have put through the tammy and boil it for some time, re- 
moving all grease that rises, season with lemon juice, cayenne pepper, 
salt and sugar, and if required, a little essence of anchovies. Pour 
this sauce over the fish. 

Get about two pounds of salmon, rather thick part, and with a sharp 
knife cut as near as possible the shape of cutlets ; have ready a sauce- 
pan with some clarified butter, and a little cayenne pepper, then pass 
each cutlet through the butter ; when you have filled the pan with 
about sixteen cutlets, (if for a corner dish that is sufficient,) cut a 
paper round and butter it, and put it over your cutlets, then put them 
either in your oven or on your hot-plate or stove ; be careful in turn- 
ing them, take them out of the saucepan or paper, to dry away the 
grease, have some good brown sauce ready ; after taking off the fat 
from what they were done in, put the remainder good into your sauce, 
adding a few drops of anchovy sauce, lemon juice, a little sugar, a 
glass of wine, then boil well for some time, dish your cutlets one on 
the other round, and either glaze them or pour the sauce over them. 

TO DRY SALMON. 

Open the fish, and remove the whole inside, including the roe. Scalp 
it, and then rub it with common salt ; hang it to drain from twenty- 
four to thirty hours. 

Mix well two ounces of good sugar, the same quantity of bay 
salt, and three ounces of saltpetre ; rub the mixture thoroughly into 
the salmon ; place it upon a dish, and suffer it to remain for forty- 
eight hours, and then rub it with common salt. Let it remain until 
the succeeding evening, it will then be ready to dry. Wipe it thorough- 
ly after drying ; spread it open with two sticks, and hang it in a 
chimney where a wood fire is burned. 

SALMON POTTED. 

Cut a handsome piece from the middle of the salmon ; remove the 
scales, and wipe it with a clean cloth. Rub into it some common 
salt thoroughly. Beat up some mace, cloves, and whole pepper, and 
season the salmon with it ; place it in a pan with a few bay leaves ; 
cover it with butter, and bake it until thoroughly done ; remove it 
from the gravy, letting it drain thoroughly, then place it in the pots. 
Clarify sufficient butter to cover all the pots after the salmon has been 
put into them : put it to cool. 

TO PICKLE SALMON. 

Scale, clean, split, and divide the salmon into handsome pieces ; 
place tbem in the bottom of a stewpan, with just sufficient water to 
cover them. Put into three quarts of water one pint of vinegar, a 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 57 

dozen bay leaves, half that quantity of mace, a handful of salt, and a 
fourth part of an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is 
sufficiently boiled remove it, drain it, and place it upon a cloth. Put 
in the kettle another layer of salmon, pour over it the liquor which 
you have prepared, and keep it until the salmon is done. Then re- 
move the fish, place it in a deep dish or pan, and cover it with the 
pickle, which, if not sufficiently acid, may receive more vinegar and 
salt, and be boiled forty minutes. Let the air be kept from the fish, 
and, if kept for any length of time, it will be found necessary to oc- 
casionally drain the liquor from the fish, and skim, and boll it. 

QUENELLES OR PUDDING. 

Use any salmon you may have left, pick it free from all bones and 
skin, put a crumb of a French roll, or some light crumbs of bread in 
half a pint of milk, a sprig of parsley, a small shalot, or onion, put it 
all to boil until dried up, stir it and keep it from burning, then put it 
to get cold ; pound the salmon well, then add boiled fat, take out the 
onion and parsley, and put about two ounces of butter with it ; pound 
all well, then rub it through a wire sieve ; when done, return it back 
into the mortar, and add, according to the quantity, two yolks of eggs 
and one whole egg, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne pepper, salt, 
and a dust of sugar. Have a stewpan of boiling water ready ; take 
out a piece and boil it to see if it is light, or does not drop to pieces ; 
have your small or large moulds ready, and well buttered ; six small 
ones are sufficient for a dish ; if for a corner, put buttered paper over 
each mould. To stew them, have a stewpan large enough to hold 
them, line the bottom with paper, and only put sufficient water to be 
half up the mould ; mind the cover fits close, and be sure it boils, then 
put them in ; the small ones will take about half an hour-; when done 
drain the grease weli from them, before dishing ; pour the sauce in 
the middle. 

TO BAKE SMELTS. 

Prepare as above, also strew forcemeat over them, bread crumbs, 
and moisten with clarified butter ; mix, in addition to the gravy a 
glass of Madeira, with a dash of anchovies ; this must be added be- 
fore the smelts are laid in. They will be done in ten minutes. 

TROUT. 

Scale, gut, clean, dry, and flour, then fry them in butter until they 
are rich clear brown ; fry some green parsley crisp, and make some 
plain melted butter, put in one tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, 
and one glass of white wine ; garnish, when the trouts are dished, 
with the crisped parsley and lemon cut in slices ; the butter may be 
poured over the fish, but it is most advisable to send it in a butter 
tureen. 



58 HOW TO COOK, 

TROUT STEWED. 

This is a pleasing and delicate dish when nicely stewed. It is dress- 
ed very much in the fashion of other small fish stewed, only that it 
requires perhaps more care in the different processes. First wash and 
clean the fish, wipe it perfectly dry, put into a stewpan two ounces of 
butter, dredge in flour as it melts, and add grated nutmeg, a little 
mace, and a little cayenne. Stew well, and when fluid and thoroughly 
mixed, lay in the fish, which having suffered to slightly brown, cover 
with a pint of veal gravy ; throw in a little salt, a small faggot of 
parsley, and a few rings of lemon-peel ; stew slowly forty minutes, 
then take out the fish, strain the gravy clear, and pour it over the fish. 

halibut's head. 

Put a pint of wine, a few anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, and some pepper, into a stew-pan ; fill it near- 
ly with water, and stew it for an hour : then strain it, and put in the 
head of a halibut, stew it till tender ; when done enough, thicken the 
gravy with butter and flour, add a little fish-sauce, and serve it up 
with forcemeat-balls made of a part of the fish, pounded, and rolled 
up with crumbs of bread, thyme, marjoram, and nutmeg, bound to- 
gether with the yolk of an egg. If the fish has been stewed in plain 
water, a glass of wine should then be added to the sauce. 

TO boil perch. 

First wipe or wash off the slime, then scrape off the scales, which 
adheres rather tenaciously to this fish ; empty and clean the insides 
perfectly, take out the gills, cut off the fins, and lay the perch into 
equal parts of cold and of boiling water, salted as for mackerel : from 
eight to ten rainutss will boil them unless they are very large. Dish 
them on a napkin, garnish them with curled parsley, and serve melted 
butter with them. 

ORAB SALAD. 

Extract the fish from the shell, and place in the centre of the dish 
in which it is to be served, in the form of a pyramid ; arrange the 
salad round tastefully, and add salad mixture. This dish is not un- 
frequently garnished with the smallest claws of the fish. 



MEATS. 



ROASTING. 



In every case where meat is washed before roasting, it should be 
well dried before it is put down to the fire, which must be kept clear; 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 59 

banked up to the height it is intended to keep it, and kept at that 
height until the meat is sufficiently cooked. Remember the regula- 
tion of gradually advancing the meat nearer to the fire while it is 
cooking ; baste with a little milk and water, or salt and water first, 
but as soon as the fat begins to fall from the meat, put down a clean 
dish, and then baste with the dripping as it falls ; the meat should 
not be sprinkled with salt until nearly cooked, or too much gravy will 
be produced. Preserve the dripping ; pour it from the dish into 
some boiling water, and leave it to cool. When cold it will be hard, 
white, and all the impurities will be deposited at the bottom. It oc- 
casionally happens that the joint cannot be sent to table as soon as 
cooked ; in such case, place it on a dish upon a fish-kettle of boiling 
water ; place over it a dishcover, and spread over all a cloth ; the 
meat will thus be Kept as hot as if placed before a fire, but will not 
be dried, nor will the gravy be evaporated. 

BOILING. 

The learned in the art of boiling recommend different times for the 
completion of the process, some allowing fifteen minutes to each pound, 
others twenty. Ail the best authorities agree in this, that the longer 
the boiling the more perfect the operation. 

When taken from the pot the meat must be wiped, some use a 
clean cloth, but the best way is to have a sponge previously dipped 
in warm water, and wrung dry, this is also more convenient. Be 
careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table as quick as pos- 
sible, or it will darken and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as 
roast, cannot be served too hot. 

Hard water is improper to boil meat in, and, where soft water is 
to be procured, should not be thought of. 

It is now an established fact amoDg the best judges, that the meat 
should be put in cold water, and not in hot, unless for a speciaf pur- 
pose, as it renders it dark and hard; cooks should be careful how 
they manage the form of certain meat for the pot, by skewering or 
tying it, so as to make it equal in all parts ; for where one part is 
thick, and the other thin, the latter would be overdone before the 
thicker parts are acted upon by the boiling water. All meats are 
best cooked by boiling gently, as fast boiling spoils the meat and does 
it no quicker. Salted meats should be very slowly boiled — in fact it 
should scarcely simmer ; it is indispensible that the water should 
cover the meat, therefore th ! dimensions of the pot should be suited 
to the bulk of the joint. 

Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, should be boiled in a 
copper. It is less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than 
that of a kitchen range. It is impossible to boil properly without 
skimming the pot. The instant the pot boils, it should be skimmed 
and followed up as the scum rises. 



$Q HOW TO COOK ; 



The cook must prepare her fire in dne time. When ready, it 
should be clear and bright, so clear from black coal and smoke that 
the chop or steak may come from the gridiron without blemish or 
taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuel for a broil is composed of 
charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted from either, even on com- 
mencing the fire, and when well ignited, it is entirely free from it ; 
coke added to a brisk coal fire also burns bright, and is well suited 
for the operation, though with care a proper fire may be made of 
good sea coal. There is this amongst other disadvantages in cutting 
too thick a steak, the outside is likely to be scorched to horny hard- 
ness before the interior is half cooked ; hence, to say nothing of the 
misery of those who have not large mouths, the disappointed epicure 
must either wait until it is put again on the gridiron, or, instead of 
eating it rare, be constrained to eat it raw. No gridirons should be 
used but those with fluted bars, which, forming channels, the greater 
part of the fat which otherwise falls into the fire, and scorches the 
steak, is drawn off into a gutter at the bottom ; the gridiron should 
be thorougly heated, and the bars rubbed with beef or mutton suet 
previously to putting on the steak, to prevent its being marked by, 
or adhering to, the bars. A close eye should be kept on the steak, 
to watch the moment for turning it, which is repeatedly done during 
the process ; broiling tongs of convenient size should be used, with 
which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and des- 
patch ; the cook must have her dish thoroughly heated to receive the 
broil when done, and the cover hot to place upon it instantly. Even 
when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who is to take it 
to table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak 
or chop should be briskly cooked, speedily conveyed to table, and 
served with despatch. 

HOW TO CHOOSE BEEF. 

True well-fed beef may be known by the texture and color ; the 
lean will exhibit an open grain of deep coral red, and the fat will ap- 

f>ear of a healthy, oily smoothness, rather inclining to white than yel- 
ow ; the suet firm and white. Yellow lat is a test of meat of an in- 
ferior quality. Heifer beef is but little inferior to ox beef; the lean 
is of a closer grain, the red paler, and the fat whiter. Cow beef may 
be detected by the same signs, save that the older the beast the tex- 
ture of the meat will appear closer, and the flesh coarser to the sight, 
as well as harder to the touch. 

TO ROAST BEEF. 

The primest parts are roasted, except the round, which should be 
boiled ; the ribs make the finest roasting joint. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 61 

Where a small quantity is required, it is better for the bones to be 
eut out, and the meat rolled ; this should be done by the butcher, 
who will not only cut cleaner, but skewer the parts into a fillet with 
more firmness and neatness than the cook, who is not expected to be 
as expert with the knife and the skewer as the butcher. The tops 
of the ribs are frequently cut oft into pieces of three or four pounds ; 
this piece though occasionally roasted, should be salted ; it then ap- 
proaches in flavor to the brisket. 

In roasting the ribs, or any piece of «eef, the precautions mention- 
ed respecting placing it too near the fire must be observed ; and 
where there is much fat, and it is desired to preserve it from being 
cooked before the lean, it may be covered with clean white paper 
skewered over it ; when it is nearly done the paper should be removed, 
a little flour dredged over it, and a rich frothy appearance will be 
obtained. The joint should be served up with potatoes and other 
Vegetables ; the dish should be garnished round the edge with horse- 
radish scraped into thin curls. This receipt will suffice for all the 
other roasting parts of beef. 

TO COOK THE INSIDE OF THE SIRLOIN. * 

Take out the inside of the sirloin in one piece, put it iuto a stew- 
pan, with sufficient good gravy to cover it ; season with mixed spice, 
pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a spoonful of walnut ketchup ; more of 
the latter may be added, if the quantity made should require it to 
flavor ; serve with pickled gherkins cut small. 

FILLET OF BEEF ROASTED. 

The fillet, which comes from the inside of the sirloin, may be lard* 
ed or roasted plain ; for high dinners it is larded. Baste with fresh 
butter. It must be a large fillet which takes longer than an hour and 
twenty minutes ; serve with tomato sauce, and garnish with horsera« 
dish, unless served with currant jelly, then serve as with venison or 
hare. 

A SALT ROUND OF BEEF. 

XJse the spice as for the fillet of beef, but salt as Usual for a round 
of beef. Let it lie for a week, frequently rubbing it ; boil it in & 
cloth ; send up carrots, and turnips, and suet dumplings, and a little 
gravy from what it was boiled in, adding a little consomme, or it will 
be too salt. Young cabbages in a dish, send Up. 

STEWED RUMP OF BEEF. 

Half roast the beef ; then place it in the stewpan, adding three 
pints or two quarts of water (according to the weight of the joint), 
two wine-glasses of vinegar, three of red wine (more if expense be 



62 HOW TO COOK, 

not considered, a bottle not being too much) ; cider is sometimes 
used, but the meat may be stewed without it ; three spoonfuls of wal- 
nut ketchup, two or three blades of mace, a shalot, a dessert-spoonful 
of lemon pickle, cayenne pepper, and salt ; cover the stewpan close 
down, and stew gently for two hours, or three,.if the rump of beef is 
large ; take it up and place it in the dish in which it is to be served, 
keeping it hot in the manner previously prescribed ; remove the scum 
from the gravy in which it has been stewed, and strain it ; add half a 
pint of mushrooms, three table- spoonfuls of port wine, a spoonful of 
Harvey's sauce, thicken with flour and butter, pour over the beef, gar- 
nish with pickles, forcemeat balls, and horseradish. 

RUMP STEAK STEWED. 

Cut a steak about an inch thick, with a good bit of fat, fry it over 
a brisk fire, place it in a stewpan with the gravy, a little good stock, 
a little port wine, and some chopped mushrooms, and stew gently; 
when tender, put into the stewpan some good brown sauce ; shake it 
gently about ; then dish it, and put scraped or grated horse-radish on 
the top ; if for oysters or mushrooms, season plentifully with salt, 
cayenne pepper, and sugar. / 

RUMP STEAK BROILED. 

Cut your steak not so thick as for the former ; have ready a good 
clear fire, and get your gridiron quite hot ; then put on the steak at 
full length, frequently stirring it with your steak-tongs ; a few min* 
utes, according to taste, will do it; place it on your dish, rub a good 
slice of butter all over it, and now pepper and salt it. Serve with a 
horseradish on the top of it, and, frequently, sauces. 

BEEF STEAKS BROILED. 

Be particular that the fire is clear ; it is of no use to attempt to 
broil a steak over a dull, smoky, or flaring fire ; see that the gridiron 
is clean, and the bar3 rubbed with suet preparatory to laying on the 
steaks ; when the meat is browned, turn it ; do not be afraid of doing 
this often, as this is the best plan to preserve the gravy. When they 
are done, rub them over with a piece of fresh butter, pepper and salt 
them, sprinkle the shalot. or onion cut very small, and send them to 
table with oyster sauce, a dish of nicely-cooked greens, and well boil- 
ed potatoes. They are frequently and pleasantly garnished with 
scraped horseradish. 

STEWED BEKP STEAKS. 

Stew the steaks in three parts of a pint of water, to which has 
been added a bunch of sweet herbs, two blades of mace, an onion 
Btuck with cloves (say three) ; an anchovy, and a lump of butter 



AND HOW TO CARVE, 63 

soaked in flour, pouring over a glass of sherry or Madeira. Stew 
with the pan covered down, until the steaks are tender, but not too 
much so ; then place them in a fryingpan with enough of fresh butter, 
hissing hot, to cover them ; fry them brown, pour ofF the fat, and in 
its place pour into the pan the gravy in which the steaks were stew- 
ed ; when the gravy is thoroughly heated, and is of a rich consistency, 
place the steaks in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. The 
steaks should be large, the finest from the rump, and have a due pro- 
portion of fat with them. 

BEEF KIDNEY, FRIED. 

Remove all the fat and the skin from the kidney, and cut it in slices 
moderately thin. Mix with a tea-spoonful of salt, grated nutmeg, 
and cayenne pepper. Sprinkle over them this seasoning, and also 
parsley, and eschalot chopped very fine. Fry them over a quick fire 
until brown on both sides, than pour into a good gravy a glass of 
Madeira, and when the slices of the kidney are browned, pour it into 
the pan gradually ; just as it boils throw in a spoonful of lemon juice, 
with a piece of butter the size of a nut. Have ready a dish, gar- 
nished with fried bread cut in dice, and pour the whole into it. 

" BEEF KIDNEYS — STEWED. 

Procure a couple of very fine beef kidneys, cut them in slices, and 
lay them iu a stewpan ; put in two ounces of butter, and four large 
onions cut into very thin slices ; add to them a sufficiency of pepper 
and salt to season well. Stew them about an hour ; add a cupfull of 
rich gravy to that extracted from the kidney. Stew five minutes, 
strain it, and thicken the gravy with flour and butter, give it a boil 
up. Serve with the gravy in the dish. 

BEEF HEART ROASTED. 

Wash thoroughly, stuff with forcemeat, send it to table as hot as it 
is possible with currant jelly sauce ; it will take about forty minutes 
roasting. 

ox TAILS. 

Have them properly jointed by the butcher, as it saves time, and 
experience enables him to do the task more neatly than the cook. 
They should be separated at each joint, until the tail is approached, 
and then two or three joints may be the length allowed. Three or 
four tails l may be cooked ; that, however, must be regulated according 
to the quantity required. We give the proportions for three tails. 
Cover them with water after laying them in the saucepan ; clear the 
scum as it rises ; and when it boils put in a little salt, half a tea-spoon- 
ful of white pepper, and half that quantity of cayenne, eight or ten 
cloves stuck in two small onions, two large or four small carrots, and 



64 Now To cook, 

a good sized bunch of parsley. Let it boil very gently, until the meat 
is tender, which will take three hours ; then strain the gravy from the 
meat, thicken it, and serve it up with the tails in a tureen. When 
the gravy has been thickened, the vegetables may be returned to it or 
not, according to taste, and it may be sent to table poured over the 
tails, or in a separate tureen. 

Ox-tails are sometimes broiled, but as in any mode of dressing 
them they require much cooking, they must first be stewed. They 
are not divided in this mode of dressing, but boiled for a quarter of 
an hour whole, and stewed in sufficient gravy to cover them until 
tender, then coated with yolk of egg, or fresh butter powdered with 
bread crumbs, and broiled upon a gridiron, served immediately they 
are browned. 

BRISISET OF BEEF STEWED. 

Take any quantity of brisket of beef required, say eight or ten 
pounds, which cover with water, and stew till tender ; bone the beef, 
and skim off the fat, strain the gravy, add a glass of port wine, and 
flavor with spice tied in a bag. Have boiled vegetables ready ; cut 
them into squares, aud garnish the beef from the gravy round it, and 



BUMP OF BEEF. 

Cut the beef in pieces, half boil them, put them Into some beef 
broth or thin stock, unseasoned, and boil ; when half done, stir some 
butter and flour moistened with broth in a stewpanover the fire until 
brown ; put the beef into the pan with a dozen onions previously 
parboiled, a glass of sherry, a bay leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs, par* 
sley, pepper, and salt ; stew till the beef and onions are quite done, 
then skim clean, cut an anchovy small, and put it witn capers into 
the sauce ; place the beef in the centre of the dish, and garnish with 
the onions round it. 

TO FRICASSEE COLD ROAST BEEF. 

Cut the beef into slices, (which would be very thin,) and put it 
with some strong broth into a stewpan ; add parsley chopped gmall, 
an onion scored, aud a piece of butter ; simmer fifteen minutes, then 
add a glass of port wine, a tea-spoonful of pyroligenous acid, and the 
yolk of a couple of eggs ; mix well, stew quickly, pot the dish, rub 
it with a shalot, pour fricassee into it and serve. 

BEEF AND SAtfER ERATjT. 

Put about eight pounds of beef into cold water. When it comes 
to a boil, let it boil very fast for eight or ten minutes, not longer. 
Take it in a stewpan, covering it completely over with sauer kraut, 



AND BOW TO CABv*2. 65' 

Pout 1 in a pint of thin gravy. Stew four hours, and serve with the 
gravy in a tureen or deep dish. 

A BEEF STEW. 

Take two or three pounds of the rump of beef, cut away all the 
fat and skin, and cut it into pieces about two or three inches square, 
put it into a stewpan, and pour on to it a quart of broth j then let it 
boil, and sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to taste '. when it has 
boiled very gently, or simmered two hours, shred finely a large lemon, 
adding it to the gravy, and in twenty minutes pour in a flavoring' 
composed of two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, the juice of the 
lemon (the rind of which has been sliced into the gravy), a spoonful 
of flour, and a little ketchup ; add at pleasure two glasses of Madeira, 
or one of sherry or port, a quarter of an hour after the flavoring, and 
serve. 

BEEF HASHED. 

Take the bones of the joint to be hashed ; and break them small, 
then stew them in a very little water, with a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and a few onions ; roll a lump of butter in flour, brown it in a Stew- 
pan, pour the gravy to it, and add the meat to be hashed ; two small 
onions in thin slices, a carrot also, and a little parsley shred finely; 
stew gently until the meat is hot through, and serve. 

BEEF TONGUE, TO CURE. 

Throw a handful of salt over the tongue, seeing that it is sprink * 
led on both sides, and let it remain to drain until the following day ; 
make a pickle of a table-spoonful of common salt, half that quanti- 
ty of saltpetre, and the same quantity of coarse sugar as of salt ? 
rub this mixture well into the tongue, every day for a week ; it will 
then be found necessary to add another table-spoonful of salt ; in 
four more days the tongue will be cured sufficiently. 

Some persons do not rub the pickle into the tongue, but let it ab- 
sorb it, merely turning it daily ; this method will be found to occupy 
a month or five weeks before it is cured.' When the tongue is to be 
dried, affix a paper to it with a date ; smoke over a wood fire four 
day3, unless wrapped in paper, and then as many weeks will be re- 
quired. 

TO DRESS BEEF TONGUES. 

First boil the tongue tender— it will take five hours ; always dress 
them as they come out of the pickle, unless they have been very long 
there, then they may be soaked three or four hours in cold water ; or 
if they have been smoked, and hung long, they should be softened by 
lying in water five or six hours ; they should be brought to a boil 



66 HOW TO COOK, 

gently, and then simmer until tender ; when they have been on the 
fire about two hours, and the scum removed as it rises, throw in a 
bunch of sweet herbs of a tolerable size, to improve the flavor of the 
tongue. 

TO STEW A TONGUE. 

Cut away the root of the tongue, but leave the fat underneath, 
and salt for seven days, as in receipt to cure beef tongue. Put it in- 
to a saucepan, and boil gently until tender, when it will easily peel ; 
after peeling, put it into a stewpan, and cover it with rich gravy, in- 
to which put a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of soy, and half 
a spoon fnl of cayenne pepper. Stew in the gravy morels, truffles, 
and mushrooms, and serve with them in the gravy. 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. 

Sprinkle some slices of cold boiled beef with pepper, fry them 
with a bit of butter to a light brown ; boil a cabbage, squeeze it 
quite dry, and chop it small, then take the beef out of the fryingpan 
and lay the cabbage in it, sprinkling a little salt and pepper over it ; 
keep the pan moving over the fire for a few minutes ; lay the cabbage 
in the middle of the dish, and the beef around it. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. 

To three pounds of beef, very lean, put one pound and a half of 
suet, and chop very finely ; season with sage in powder, allspice, pep- 
per, and salt ; have skins thoroughly cleaned and force the meat in- 
to them. 

BEEP BROTH. 

Take a leg of beef, wash it clean, crack the bone in two or three 
parts, put it into a pot with a gallon of water, and skim it well ; then 
put two or three blades of mace into a bundle of parsley, and a crust 
of bread, and let it boil till the beef is quite tender ; toast some 
bread, cut it into dice, put them into a tureen, lay in the meat, and 
pour the soup over it. 

MARROW BONES. 

They must be sawn into convenient sizes ; cover the ends with a 
little douol). made of flour and water, and tie them in a floured 
cloth ; boil them an hour and a half, and serve on a napkin with dry 
toast. 



Take two pounds of fresh tripe, cleaned and dressed by the tripe- 
dresser, cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it for twenty minutes to 



AND HOW TO CARVE, 67 

half an hour, in equal parts of milk and water. Boil in the same 
water which boils the tripe four large onions ; the onions should be 
put on the fire at least half an hour before the tripe is put in the 
stewpan, and then made into a rich onion sauce, which serve with the 
tripe. 

Tripe is also cleaned, dried, cut into pieces, and fried in butter and 
served with melted butter. 

Another method of dressing tripes is by cutting it into slices ; three 
eggs are beaten up with minced parsley, sweet herbs, onions, chopped 
exceedingly fine, and mushrooms. The tripe is dipped into this mix- 
ture, and fried in boiling lard. 

Tripe may also be cut into collops, covered with a mixture of 
parsley, onions, and mushrooms, minced exceedingly fine, and fried in 
clarified or fresh butter. Serve mushroom sauce with it. 

Tripe can be be stewed in gravy, in which put parsley, onions, and 
mushrooms, or in lieu of the latter, mushroom ketchup. Thicken the 
gravy with flour and butter. When the tripe is tender, it will be 
done. A lemon may be sent to table with it. 

POTTED BEEF. 

To a pound of common salt, put a quarter of an ounce of salt- 
petre, and two ounces of coarse sugar. Rub three ounces of lean 
beef with this, and let it remain in the brine fifty hours. Drain and 
dry it, pepper it well with black pepper, and put it into a pan ; cut 
half a pound of butter in slices, and lay round it ; lay a paste crust 
over it, and bake it very slowly four hours and a half. Let it get 
cold, and then cut off the meat, being careful to separate the stringy 
pieces from it ; pound it in a mortar, working up with it four ounces 
of fresh butter, and some of the gravy from the meat when baked, 
seasoned with ground allspice, a little mace, and pepper. When the 
meat has been combined with the butter and gravy, until it is 
worked into an even paste, put it into jars, and cover it with clarified 
butter. 

If it is purposed to keep it long, cover it with bladder skin. The 
beef may be potted without in the first instance being salted, but if 
it is done, it should have salt worked up with it, and be soon eaten 
after potting. Some persons make their potted beef of meat that has 
been previously cooked, but the above will be found to be the best 
receipt. 

cow HEEL. 

Having been thoroughly washed, scalded, and cleaned, cut them 
into pieces about two inches long, and one wide; dip them into yolk 
of egg, cover them with fine bread crumbs mixed with parsley, minced, 
cayenne pepper, and salt ; fry them in boiling butter. 



ROW TO COOK, 



BEEF HAMS, 



Prepare, trim, and shape a leg of beef like a ham, then put on a 
dish, and baste with the'following pickle morning and evening for 
a month, then remove from the pickle, drain, roll in bran, and smoke 
it. Cover with a piece of canvas, give it a coat of lime-wash, and 
hang in a dry place until wanted. For a piece of meat weighing 
fourteen pounds, mix a pound of salt, the same of coarse brown sugar, 
au ounce of saltpetre, the same of bay salt, half an ounce of coarse 
black pepper, and three ounces of treacle, adding sufficient beer to 
form into a thick pickle. 



YEAL 

The failing of this meat is its tendency to turn ; should it shor/ 
any symptoms of doing this, put it into scalding water, and let it boil 
for seven or eight minutes, with some pieces of charcoal affixed, 
plunge it into cold water immediately after taking it out of the pot, 
and put into the coldest place you have at command ; the skirt from 
the breast, and the pipe from the loin, should always be removed in 
hot weather. 

HOW TO CHOOSE VEAL. 

When you observe the kidney well surrounded with fat, you may 
be sure the meat is of a good quality. The whitest is not the best 
Veal ; but the flesh of the bull-calf is of a brighter color than that 
of the cow-calf. The fillet of the latter is generally preferred, on ac- 
count of the udder. There is a Vein in the shoulder very perceptible ; 
and its color indicates the freshness of the meat ; if a bright red or 
blue, it is recently killed ; if any green or yellow spots are visible, it 
is stale. The suet will be flabby, and the kidney will smell. 

VEAL, TOE FILLET. 

The fillet derives much of its pleasant flavor from being stuffed* 
Yeal, in itself, being nearly tasteless, the stuffing should be placed in 
the hollow place from whence the bone is extracted, and the joint 
should be roasted a beautiful brown ; it should be cooked gradually, 
as the meat being solid, will require to be thoroughly done through 
without burning the outside ; like pork, it is sufficiently indigestible, 
without being sent to table and eaten half cooked 5 a dish of boiled 
bacon or ham should accompany it to table, with the addition of a 
lemon. 

In roasting veal, eare must be taken that it if? not at first placed 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 



69 



too near the fire ; the fat of a loin, one of the most delicate joints of 
veal, should be covered with greased paper ; a fillet also, should have 
on the caul until nearly done enough. The shoulder should be tho- 
roughly boiled ; when nearly done, dredge with flour, and produce a 
fine froth. 



FILLET OF VEAL BOILED. 

Bind it round with tape, put it in a floured cloth, and in cold 
water ; boil very gently two hours and a half, or, if simmered, which 
is perhaps the better way, four hours will be necessary. It may be 
sent to table in bechemel, or with oyster sauce. 

Care should be taken to keep it as white as possible. 

KNUCKLE OF VEAL BOILED. 

Put sufficient water over it to cover it, let it boil gently, and when 
it reaches a boil, as much salt as would fill a dessert-spoon may be 
thrown in ; keep it well skimmed, and boil until tender, then serve 
with parsley and butter, and a salted cheek. Allow twenty minutes 
to each pound. Three quarters of a pound of rice may be boiled 
with it, or green peas, or cucumbers ; turnip and small spring onions 
may be put in, allowing them so much time from the cooking of the 
veal as they may require. 

KNUCKLE OF VEAL STEWED. 

Place your knuckle of veal in a stewpan, if the knuckle is a very 
large one, it may be divided into two or three pieces for the sake of 
convenience ; put in the pan with it, a few blades of mace, a little 
thyme, an onion, some whole pepper, a burnt crust of bread, and co- 
ver with three to four pints of water, cover down close, and boil ; 
when it has boiled, place it by the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
for at least two hours ; keep it hot while you strain its liquor, then 
pour the gravy over it, and send it to table with a lemon garnish. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Let the knuckle boil slowly in sufficient water till it is tender ; 
make a sauce of butter and flour, with parsley in it chopped fine, 
then slice a lemon, and garnish the dish with it. 

NECK OF VEAL. 

May be boiled or roasted — the latter only, if it be the best end, 
and sent to table garnished nicely with vegetables; it may also 
be broiled in chops, but it is best in a pie ; it is sometimes larded 
and stewed as follows : 

NECK OF VEAL STEWED. 

Lard it with square pieces of ham or bacon, which have been pre- 



tO HOW TO COOK. 

viously rubbed in a preparation of shalots, spices, pepper, and salt ; 
place it in the stewpan with about three pints of white stock, adding 
a bay or laurel leaf, and a couple of onions ; also add a dessert-spoon- 
ful of brandy or whiskey, and stew till tender, then dish the meat, 
strain the gravy, pour it over the joint, and serve. 

NEOK OF VEAL BRAISED. 

This is done much in the same manner as the neck of veal stewed ; 
it is larded with bacon, rolled in chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg, placed with the scrag in a tosser, in which place lean bacon, 
celery, carrots, one onion, a glass of sherry, or Maderia, with suffici- 
ent water to cover it all ; stew over a quick fire until it is sufficiently 
tender, remove the veal, and strain the gravy, place the veal in a 
stewpan, in which some butter and flour has been browned, letting 
the bones be uppermost ; when the veal is nicely colored it is enough; 
boil as much of the liquor as may be required, skim it clean, squeeze 
a lemon into it, pour it over the meat, and serve. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

The cutlet should be cut as handsomely as possible, and about 
three quarters of an inch in thickness ; before cooking, they should 
be well beaten with the blade of a chopper, if a proper beater be 
not at hand ; then fry them a light brown, and send them up to ta- 
ble garnished with parsley, and rolls of thin-sliced, nicely fried ba- 
con ; they are with advantage coated, previous to cooking, with the 
yolk of an egg, and dredged with bread crumbs. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Procure your cutlets cut as in last receipt, coat them with the yolk 
of eggs well beaten, powdered bread crumbs, sweet herbs, grated 
lemon peel, and nutmeg ; put some fresh butter in the pan, and when 
boiling, put in your cutlets ; now make some good gravy ; when the 
cutlets are cooked, take them out, and keep them before the fire to 
keep hot, dredge into the pan a little flour, put in a piece of butter, 
a little white stock, juice of lemon to taste, season with pepper and 
salt, adding mushroom ketchup, boil quickly until a light brown, then 
pour it over the cutlets, and serve, the cutlets being laid in a circle 
round the dish, and the gravy in the centre. 

fEAL CUTLETS CURRIED. 

The cutlets may be prepared as for collops, by cutting them into 
shape, dipping them into the yolk of eggs, and seasoning them with 
about four table-spoonfuls of fine bread crumbs, two spoonfuls of cur- 
ry powder, and one of salt ; fry them in fresh butter; serve with cur- 
ry sauce, which may be made with equal parts of curry powder, flour, 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 



u 



and butter, worked well together into a paste ; put it into the pan 
from which the cutlets have been removed, moisten with a cupful ot 
water, in which cayenne and salt have been stirred ; let it thicken, 
and serve very hot. 

VEAL CUTLETS, CRUMBED OR PLAIN. 

If you have not got the leg of veal or the cutlet-piece I before 
named, get a thick slice of veal, and cut fourteen good sized cutlets, 
but not too thin ; flatten each, and trim them a good shape, wet your 
beater in cold water to keep the veal from sticking,) if for plain cut- 
lets, flour them and dry them), then again have ready your saucepan, 
or fryingpan, quite hot, with a good bit of lard or butter : in this put 
your cutlets, and fry a nice light brown ; pepper and salt them ; if to 
be bread-crumbed, trim them as before ; have ready a little clarified 
butter, some chopped parsley and shalot, pepper and salt, all mixed 
together with the yolk of two eggs well beaten ; have ready some 
bread crumbs, and amongst them a spoonful of well-mixed flour ; dip 
each cutlet into this omelet, and thin bread-crumb them, patting 
them with your knife to keep each the proper shape, making the 
bread crumbs stick to the cutlet : melt some lard in your saucepan 
and place your cutlets in it ready to fry a nice brown. 

COLLOPS OP VEAL. 

If you have it, a leg of veal ; if not, get a cutlet, and cut it into 
thin pieces, and beat very thin, saute them off, and when all done, 
trim them round the size of a crown piece, pepper, and salt them, 
place them in a stew pan with some cool sauce if for brown, and if 
for white, bechemel sauce ; add some forcemeat balls, some stewed 
mushrooms, and some whole-dressed truffles, season with pepper, salt, 
sugar, and lemon : dish the collops round as you would cutlets, put- 
ting the mushrooms, balls, and truffles in the middle. 

VEAL CHOPS LARDED, 

Take from the best end of the neck of veal, three thick chops with 
a bone to each, trimmed neatly, either larded or not ; but you will 
braise as the former, and glaze them. 

TENDONS OP VEAL, 

This is from a breast of veal. Turn up the breast, and with a 
sharp knife cut off the chine bone all along, taking care you do not 
take any of the gristle with the bone ; when you have cut off this 
bone, place your knife under the gristle, and follow it all along until 
you have raised it up ; then cut off the tendons by keeping close to 
the rib bones; when you have got it out twelve or fourteen tendons 
endways, keeping your knife slanting, that each may be the size of a 



72 HOW TO COOK, 

email pattie round, but not too thin j then put them on in cold water 
to scald, and then put them in cold again ; prepare a stewpan, lined 
with fat bacon or ham, trim each tendon round, throw the turnip in 
your braise, cover them with second stock and some of the skimmiDg, 
and let them stew gently for six or seven hours ; be careful in taking 
them up, and place them separately upon a drying seive ; glaze them 
two or three times, and dish them on border. They should be so ten- 
der that you might suck them through a quill. 

GALANTINE VEAL. 

Take a large breast of veal ; take off the chine bone,then take out 
the gristle called tendons, and all the rib bones ; flatten it well, have 
ready some good forcemeat or sausage meat, and spread it all over 
with your forcemeat : then make a line of green gherkins, a line of 
red capsicums, a line of fat ham or bacon, some hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs, and a line of truffles ; if you have any boiled calves' feet left 
from jelly stock, sprinkle it in with pieces of breast of fowl ; sprinkle 
pepper and salt all over it, then roll it up tightly, and likewise do so 
in a cloth ; tie it up tight ; stew it for two hours or more ; take it 
up, press it flat, and let it lie until quite cold : then take off the cloth. 
It will make an excellent cold dish. 

POTTED VEAL. 

This may be potted as beef, or thus : — Pound cold veal in a mor- 
tar, and work up with it in powder, mace, and salt, the leanest part 
of tongue or ham, and shred very finely ; place in a jar or pot a layer 
of the pounded veal, and upon that a layer of the tongue, and contin- 
ue alternately until the pot is full, seeing that every laye*r is well pres- 
sed down ; pour over the top melted clarified butter. If it is desired, 
aud which is frequently done, to marble the veal, cut the tongue or 
ham in small dice instead of shredding it ; care must be taken that 
they do not touch each other, or the effect is destroyed. 

VEAL HARICOED. 

Bone the best end of the neck, put it in a stewpan with three pints 
of a rich brown gravy (let there be enough to cover it), and sew it ; 
while this is proceeding, stew four good-sized cucumbers, pared and 
sliced, with a pint of peas, and a couple of cabbage-lettuces, cut in 
quarters, in some broth ; when sufficiently stewed, and the veal is 
nearly done, add them to it ; simmer ten minutes, and serve with 
forcemeat balls. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Cut the meat intended to be minced, (which may be of any cold 
joint of veal), into very small pieces, shred lemon-peel very fine, gra- 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 73 

ted nutmeg, add salt and half a dozen table-spoonfuls of white stock, 
or, if considered preferable, milk : let these simmer slowly without 
boiling ; when nearly done add butter rubbed in fiour, and when it is 
dressed, round the dish, lay diamonds of toasted bread, each bearing a 
thin half slice of lemon ; strew fried bread crumbs lightly over the 
veal, garnish with thin slices of boiled bacon in rolls. 

GRENADINS OF VEAL. 

Is the last piece left with the veins ; after cutting out the frican- 
deau, the collop which you will see is round, and the cutlet-piece, 
then this solid round piece, which you will cut in half, and trim # it as 
you did the former, keeping them either round or oval ; lard them 
and braise tham the same as a fricandeau, only less time. 

GRENADINS FROM A NECK OF VEAL. 

About five bones from the best end of the neck ; cut out the fillet 
close to the bones, trim it free from skin and sinews ; flatten it with 
your beater, and trim it nicely. 

EMINCEES. 

Are made from dressed meat cut into very small dice ; put fried or 
toasted bread sippets round the dish ; a mashed potatoe or rice rim 
is the neatest way for this dish to be sent to table. 

BREAST OF VEAL STEWED. 

Put it into the stewpan with a little white stock, add a glass of 
sherry, a few mushrooms, arbunch of sweet herbs, three onions, pep- 
per, and salt Stew till tender ; strain the gravy, and send to table 
garnished with force meat balls. 

BREAST OF VEAL BOILED. 

Put itjnto plenty of cold water, and let it come to a boil, clearing 
the scum as often as it rises ; when it boils, add a bunch of parsley, 
a few blades of mace, a small bunch of sweet herbs, twenty or thir- 
ty white peppers, and let it stew an hour and a quarter, then send to 
table with a nice piece of bacon, and parsley and butter. 

BREAST OF VEAL RAGOUT. 

Divide the breast lengthways in two, cutting each piece into por- 
tions of a reasonable size ; then put them into a pan with^ boiling 
butter, and fry a clear brown ; lay the pieces in a stewpan with suffi- 
cient veal broth to cover them, throw in a small faggot of sweet 
herbs and parsley, two onions, one large blade of mace, half a desert- 
spoonful of allspice, and the peel of a lemon ; season with pepper 
and salt, cover close, and stew an hour and a half, or longer if the 



74 HOW TO COOK, 

meat requires it ; then take it off and strain the gravy from the fat 
keeping the veal closely covered ; in a small stewpan put a little but- 
ter and flour, pour in the strained gravy gradually, let it come to a 
boil, remove any scum that may rise, pour in a glass of sherry or 
Madeira, two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ketchup, 
and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon ; boil it up, place the veal 
in a deep hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. 

BREAST OF VEAL — FORCED. 

After taking out the tendons and all the rib bones, flatten and trim 
the veal ; spread it all over with forcemeat, and sprinkle over it, if 
you have got it, a little chopped truffle or mushrooms, and a little 
pepper and salt : then roll it tightly up and tie it ; after which put it 
into a cloth and stew it for several hours, then take it up, and take 
off the cloth and strings, dry it and glaze it, and put some good 
sauce. 

SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Eemove the knuckle, and roast what remains, as the fillet ; it may 
or may not be stuffed ; if not stuffed, serve with oyster or mushroom 
sauce ; if stuffed, with melted butter. 

SHOULDER OF VEAL BONED AND STEWED. 

Bone the shoulder, and lay in the orifice a veal forcemeat ; roll and 
bind the shoulder ; roast it an hour, then put it into a stewpan with 
good white or brown gravy, and stew four or five hours, regulating 
the time to the size of the joint ; when it is done, strain the gravy to 
clear it of fat, and serve with forcemeat balls. 

LOIN OF VEAL. 

Divide the lion, roast the kidney, and place under the fat a toast, 
and serve swimming in melted butter. The chump end must be stuff- 
ed with the same stuffing as the fillet, and served with the same sauce ; 
those who object to putting the stuffing in the joint, may send it to 
table with balls of stuffing in the dish. 

LOIN OF VEAL BOILED. 

Take a loin about eight pounds, skewer down the flap without 
disturbing the kidney, put the loin into a kettle with enough cold 
water to cover it, let it come gradually to a boil (it cannot boil too 
slowly), continue for two hours and a quarter, but it must boil ; re- 
move the scum as it rises, send it to table in bechemel, or with pars- 
ley and melted butter. 

KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 

Get a knuckle of a log of veal, saw it in three parts, but not to 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 75 

separate it, scald it, and put it for a few minutes in cold water, then 
place it in a stewpan with some good seasoned stock, an onion or two, 
a faggot of herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, a carrot, a turnip, and a 
head of celery, a blade of mace, a slice of raw ham, fat and lean ; 
stew it for several hours, until the gristle is soft, then take out the 
veal, and cover it over to keep it white ; strain the liquor, wash a 
pound of rice and boil it in this liquor, add half a pint of cream or 
milk ; when the rice is done, put the veal again into it to make hot ; 
dish the veal carefully, and season the rice with pepper and salt, and 
pour over the veal ; if with parsley and butter instead of water, use 
the stock from it, and chop fine some boiled parsley and mix into it. 

calf's feet. 

They should be very clean, boil them three hours, or until they are 
tender, then serve them with parsley and butter. 

calf's heart. 

Stuffed and roasted precisely as beef heart. 

calf's kidney. 

May be dressed as mutton or beef kidney, or mince it with some 
of the fat, add cayenne, white pepper, aud salt, cover it with bread 
crumbs and with yolk of egg, make it up into balls, and fry in boil- 
ing fresh butter, drain them upon a sieve, and serve them upon fried 
parsley. 

calf's head for grill. 

When the head is boiled sufficiently, draw out all the bones, and 
put it to cool, and then cut it (if not required whole,) into square 
long pieces ; egg and bread-crumb them as you would cutlets, only 
add some chopped sweet herbs, as well as parsley ; put it in your 
oven to brown. 

calf's head. 

Let the head be thoroughly cleaned, the brain and tongue be taken 
out, and boil it in a cloth to keep it white (it is as well to soak the 
head for two or three hours previously to boiling, it helps to improve 
the color); wash, soak, and blanch the brains, then boil them, scald 
some sage, chop it fine, add pepper and salt, and a little milk, mix it 
with the brains ; the tongue, which should be soaked in salt and 
water for twenty-four hours, should be boiled, peeled, and served on 
a separate dish. The head should boil until tender, and if intended 
to be sent plainly to table should be served as taken up, with- melted 
butter and parsley ; if otherwise, when the head is boiled sufficiently 
tender, take it up, spread over a coat of the yolk of egg well beaten 
up, powder with bread crumbs, and brown before the fire in a Dutch 
or American oven. 



76 HOW TO COOK, 

calf's head, baked. 

Butter the head, and powder it with a seasoning composed of very 
fine bread crumbs, a few sweet herbs and sage, chopped very fine, 
cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Divide the brains into several 
pieces, not too small, sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and lay them 
in the dish with the head. Stick a quantity of small pieces of but- 
ter over the head and in the eyes, throw crumbs over all, pour in 
three parts of the dish full of water, and bake in a fast oven two 
hours. 

TO HASH CALF'S HEAD. 

If this dish is to be made of the remains of a head already cooked, 
there is no necessity to reboil it before it is placed in the stewpau 
with the other ingredients ; if it is made with one as yet uncooked, 
soak it thoroughly for two hours, parboil it, cut the meat in slices 
about one inch thick and three inches long, or smaller, if preferred ; 
brown an onion sliced in flour and butter iu a stew or sautepan, add 
to the meat as much rich gravy as the quantity of meat will permit, 
season with pepper, salt, and cayenne ; let it boil, then skim clean, 
and simmer until the meat is quite tender ; a few minutes before you 
serve throw in parsley in fine shreds and some finely-chopped sweet 
herbs ; squeeze a little lemon in, and garnish with forcemeat balls, or 
thin slices of broiled ham rolled. If expense is not an object you 
may add moreals and truffles in the browning. 

calf's ears. 

Soald the hair from the ears, and clean them thoroughly ; boil 
them until they are tender in veal gravy, and then blanch them in 
cold spring water. Serve them in chervil sauce, or in the gravy, 
thickened and seasoned, in which they were cooked. A sauce may 
be made of melted butter and mashed chervil, then strained through 
a seive, and white sauce added. White sauce is sometimes sent up 
alone with the ears ; in that case it should be flavored with mush- 
room powder. 

calf's ears, stuffed. 

Prepare as above, and make a stuffing of calves' liver, ham grated, 
fat bacon, bread steeped in cream, sweet herbs, a little mace, a little 
salt, and bind it with an egg unbeaten. Stuff the ears with it. The 
ears should be cut very close to the head, and the gristly part suf- 
ficiently smooth to enable the ears to stand upright when served. 
Bub the ears over with egg, and fry them a delicate brown. Serve 
with brown gravy. 

calf's brains. 
Wa6h them, remove the skin and scald them. Dry them well, fry 



AND HOW TO CARVE. ft 

them in butter, and serve with mushroom sauce. Or, when cleaned 
and scalded, chop them finely, simmer them with mushrooms, onions 
parsley sage, and white sauce. Season highly and serve, with fried 
parsley and fried sippets. 

calf's liver. 

Lay the liver in vinegar for twelve hours, it will render it firm ; 
then dip it in cold spring water and wipe it dry, cut it in even slices, 
sprinkle sweet herbs, crumbled finely, over it, and add pepper and salt, 
dredge with flour, and fry in boiling lard or butter, the last is prefer- 
able ; remove the liver when fried a nice brown, pour away a portion 
of the fat, and pour in a cupful of water with a lump of butter well 
rolled in flour, in which a spoonful of vinegar and cayenne or lemon 
juice has been stirred, boil it up, keeping it stirred all the while, and 
serve the liver up in it ; thin slices of hot fried bacon should be sent 
to table with it. 



PRICANDEAU OP VEAL. 

Cut this from a large leg of veal ; placing the bone from you, you 
bring the meat in front of you and you will see small veins running 
in different directions ; put your knife in the one which is largest, 
following it all round, then take that piece off, lay it upon your dres- 
ser, clean off* the skin, keeping the meat rather high in the middle ; 
shave it very smooth, lay the end of your rubber upon it, and with 
your beater beat it well ; take off your cloth and turn it again : keep- 
ing it the shape of the veal bone, turn it over flat on a plate, cut off 
any skin or pipe, then lard it with fat bacon : if for a Jews family, 
lard it with smoked beef fat, to be had from their own butcher's, or 
truffles ; when it is larded put on a stewpan of cold water, place your 
veal in it, keeping the bacon downwards, or otherwise the acum will 
settle on the top: skim it, and when it simmers, put your stewpan un- 
der the top, and let it dribble gently upon it for five minutes, then 
turn it over and take it up ; then line a stewpan with fat bacon or 
ham cut in slices, a carrot, turnip, and onions, a celery, a faggot of 
sweet herbs, put your fricandeau on a drainer in your stewpan, cover 
the top with thin slices of bacon, half cover it with some second 
stock, place it on a slow fire to stew gently, keeping a little all the 
time on the top ; it will take about three hours, for it should be as 
tender as to be helped with a spoon ; when done, glaze it several 
times. 

VEAL, CURRIED. 

Cut the veal to be curried in small pieces — any part of veal, cooked 
or uncooked, that is palatable, will serve. Put in a stewpan six oun- 
ces of fresh butter, add to it half a pint of good white stock and one 



t8 HOW TO COOK, 

table-spoonful of curry powder, put to this the veal to be curried, 
cover down close, simmer for two hours, squeeze a quarter of a lemon 
into it, aud serve with a dish of boiled rice. 



MUTTON. 

This is a delicate and favorite meat ; it is susceptible of many 
modes of cooking, and should always be served very hot, and with 
very hot plates, except of course in cases where it may be sent to 
table as a cold dish. It is a meat which requires care in the cooking, 
which it will amply repay. The roasting parts are the better for 
hanging some time, especially the haunch or saddle, but not for boil- 
ing, as the color is apt to be injured. 

HOW TO CHOOSE MUTTON. 

The best is of a fine grain, a bright color, the fat firm and white. 
It is better for being full grown. The meat of the ewe is not so 
bright, while the grain is closer. The ram mutton may be known by 
the redness of the flesh, and the sponginess of the fat. 

HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 

The haunch should be hung as long as possible without being taint- 
ed ; it should be washed with vinegar every day while hanging, and 
dried thoroughly after each washing ; if the weather be muggy, rub- 
bing with sugar will prevent its turning sour ; if warm weather, pep- 
per and ground ginger rubbed over it will keep off the flies. 

When ready for roasting, paper the fat, and commence some dis- 
tance from the fire ; baste with milk and water first, and then when 
the fat begins dripping, change the dish, and baste with its own drip- 
ping ; half an hour previous to its being done, remove the paper from 
the fat, place it closer to the fire, baste well, and serve with currant 
jelly. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

This joint like the haunch, gains much of its flavor from hanging 
for some time ; the skin should be taken off, but skewered on again 
until within rather more than a quarter of an hour of its being 
done, then let it be taken off, dredge the saddle with flour, and baste 
well. The kidneys may be removed or remain at pleasure, but the 
fat which is found within the saddle should be taken away previous 
to cooking. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 19 

LEG OF MUTTON ROASTED. 

Like the haunch and saddle, should be hung before cooking, slow- 
ly roasted and served with onion sauce or currant jelly. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Put the leg into an iron saucepan, with enough cold water to cover 
it, and let it come to a boil gently ; or boil it by simmering only ; 
have the spit or jack ready, and take it from the hot water and put 
it to the fire instantly, it will take from an hour and a half if a large 
joint. 

ROAST LEG OP MUTTON BONED AND STUFFED. 

The principal skill required in preparing this dish, is the boning ; 
this must be done with a very sharp knife, commencing on the under- 
side of the joint, and passing the knife under the skin until exactly 
over the bone, then cut- down to it, and pass the knife round close to 
the bone right up to the socket, then remove the large bone of the 
thickest end of the leg, seeing the meat is clear of the bone ; you may 
then draw out the remaining bones easily. Put in the orifice a high- 
ly-seasoned forcemeat, fasten the knuckle end tightly over, replace 
the bone at the base of the joint, and sew it in ; roast it in a cradle 
spit or on a jack, if the latter, let the knuckle end be downwards, as 
it is less likely to sufier the forcemeat to drop out. It must be well 
basted, and should be sent to table with a good gravy. 

LEG OF MUTTON BOILED. 

Should be first soaked for an hour and a half in salt and water, 
care being taken tfiat the water be not too salt, then wiped and boiled 
in a floured cloth ; the time necessary for boiling will depend upon 
the weight : two hours or two hours and a half should be about the 
time ; it should be served with mashed turnips, potatoes, greens and 
caper sauce, or brown cucumber, or oyster sauce. 

TO DRESS MUTTON HAMS 

Soak the ham for five or six hours in cold spring water, unless it 
has only recently been cured, then one hour will suffice : put it into 
cold water, boil gently ; it will be done in two hours and a half. It 
is eaten cold. 

MUTTON KIDNEYS BROILED. 

Skin and split, without parting asunder ; skewer them through 
the outer edge and keep them flat ; lay the opened sides first to the 
fire, which should be clear and brisk : in four minutes turn them, 
sprinkle with salt and cayenne, and when done, which will be in three 
minutes afterwards, take them from the fire, put a piece of butter in- 



80 

side them, squeeze some lemon juice over them, and serve as hot as 



LAMB. 



HOW TO CHOOSE LAMB. 

In the fore-quarter, the vein in the neck being any other colour 
than blue betrays it to be stale. In the hind-quarter, try the kidney 
with your nose ; the faintness of its smell will prove it to be stale. 

FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 

This is the favourite, and indeed the best joint. Do not put it too 
near the fire at first, and when it gets heated baste it well ; the fire 
should be quick, clear, but not fierce. The usual weight of a fore- 
quarter is between nine and eleven pounds, which will take two hours 
cooking ; when it is done, separate the shoulder from the ribs, but 
before it is quite taken off, lay under a large lump of butter, squeeze 
a lemon, and season with pepper and salt : let it remain long enough 
to melt the butter, then remove the shoulder, and lay it on another 
dish. 

STEAKS FROM A LOIN OF MUTTON 

Are done in the same way, only trimming some of the fat off, and 
cut thick, and stew instead of frying them. 

MUTTON STEAKS. 

The steaks are cut from the thick or fillet end of a leg of mutton, 
and dressed as rump-steaks. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

Cut them from the best end of the loin, trim them nicely, removing 
fat or skin, leaving only enough of the for-mer to make them palata- 
ble ; let the fire be very clear before placing the chops on the gridiron, 
turn them frequently, taking care that the fork is not put into the lean 
part of the chop ; season them with pepper and salt, spread fresh but- 
ter over each chop when nearly done, and send them to table on very 
hot plates. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 81 



MUTTON CHOPS FRIED. 



The fat in which the chops are to be fried should be boiling when 
the chops are put into it. They should be pared of fat and well 
trimmed before cooking, turned frequently, and when nicely browned 
they will be done ; of course if they are very thick, judgment must 
be exercised respecting the length of time they will occupy in 



cooking. 



CHOPS AS BEEF STEAKS. 



Cut thick from a leg of mutton, and rub each steak with a shalot ; 
broil over a quick fire ; rub your dish with a shalot ; when on the 
dish pepper and salt them ; send them up quite hot. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Loin chops make the best cutlets. Take off the vertebra? or thick- 
est end of each bone, and about an inch off the top of the bone ; put 
the chops into a stewpan in which has been previously melted a 
little butter seasoned with salt ; stew for a short time, but not until 
they are brown, as that appearance is accomplished in another man- 
ner. Chop some parsley very fine, add a little thyme, mix it with 
sufficient yolk of egg to coat the chops, which will have been suffered 
to cool before this addition to them ; then powder them with bread 
crumbs, over which a pinch of cayenne pepper has been sprinkled ; 
broil them upon a gridiron over a clear but not a brisk fire, and when 
they are brown dish them ; lemon juice may be squeezed over them, 
or the dish in which they are served may be garnished with the thin 
slices of lemon in halves and quarters. 

ANOTHER WAT. 

From not a very fat neck, take off the scrag and the breast bones, 
leaving the remainder the length you intend the cutlets, then take 
the chine bone clean off, then the skin and some of the fat ; you 
will now have the muttton free from bones to cut your cutlets, and 
you will find you can cut fourteen good cutlets from this trimmed 
neck without any hacking ; beat each cutlet with your beater, trim 
them neatly, be sure to cut out the packwax, and leave a little fat to 
each cutlet. If for gratin or bread crumbed, prepare some chopped 
parsley and shalot, and bread crumbs, put some butter to melt in a 
stewpan, a little of the parsley and shalot, and some yolk of egg, mix 
it well up together ; put your bread crumbs on a sheet of paper, 
adding to it a little salt and pepper ; dip each cutlet into melted 
butter, put down the bread crumbs with your knife, and lay them on 
a buttered sautepan until wanted to fry. 

CUTLETS SAUTB. 

Cut your neck of mutton precisely as for the crumbed cutlets, have 



82 HOW TO COOK. 

then ready a piece of butter melted in your sautepan, and dip each 
cutlet both sides in the butter ; when required, fry them a very light 
color, and pepper and salt them when done ; take them up to drain 
from the fat, have some good glaze melted, and glaze each cutlet 
both sides; dish them round with or without a rim of mashed 
potato. 

CUTLETS IN BUTTER. 

Trim them as for former cutlets very neatly ; dip each cutlet in 
butter and fry them ; dish them upon a napkin with fried parsley ; 
this you may do with a previously-dressed neck of mutton. 

MUTTON CUTLETS, MAINTENON. 

Trim the cutlets as in the preceediug, half fry them, then cover 
them with fine herbs and bread crumbs, and season with pepper and 
suit lay all to cool ; have some fresh parsley to add to the already 
fried herbs and shalots. When cool spread the butter and herbs 
thick upon each cutlet ; sprinkle them with bread crumbs ; wrap 
them in buttered foolscap paper, and broil them over a slow fire until 
done. 

BRAISED CUTLETS. 

Trim your mutton from the bones as before, then put it whole into 
a good braise, let it stew gently until tender, and put it aside to get 
cold ; when so, cut your cutlets as thick as the former, trim them 
neatly, make them hot and glace them. 

FILLET OF MUTTON. 

Choose a very large leg, cut from four to five inches in thickness 
from the large end, take out the bone, and in its place put a highly 
savored forcemeat, flour, and roast it for two hours ; it may be sent 
to table with melted butter poured over it, or a rich brown gravy 
and red currant jelly. 

HARICOT MUTTON. 

In this dish remove the bones, leave the fat on, and cut each cutlet 
thick ; fry them over a quick fire to brown ; twelve cutlets will make 
this dish ; put them into a proper sized stewpan with a little good 
second stock, pepper and salt, a little piece of sugar, cover it over 
and stew gently over a slow fire ; when tender, strain off sufficient 
stock for the sauce. 

HASH 

Is made from former-dressed mutton, leg or saddle, cut in nice thin- 
shaped pieces, and put into some good brown sauce. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 83 



HASH MUTTON. 



Cut the cold mutton into slices as uniform in size as possible, flour 
them, pepper and salt them, put them into a stewpan with some 
gravy made of an onion stewed, with whole pepper and toasted bread, 
in a pint of water, to which a little walnut ketchup has been added — 
this gravy should be stewed two hours before using. Do not let 
the hash boil ; when it is done, add a little thickening of butter, 
flour and water, if required, and serve up with sippets of toasted 
bread. 

IRISH STEW. 

Cut a neck of mutton as far the haricot ; blanch the chops in 
water, then put them into another stewpan with four onions cut in 
slices, put to it a little of your second stock, and let it boil a quarter 
of an hour ; have ready some potatoes pared, put them into the 
stewpan with the mutton, with salt and pepper. As some like the 
potatoes whole and some mashed, as to thicken the stew, you must 
boil them accordingly ; dish the meat round, and the vegetables in 
the middle. 

TO MAKE A SCOTCH HAGGIS. 

Take the stomach of a sheep. The washing and cleaning is of 
more consequence than all, as it will be a bad color and a bad taste 
if not well cleaned ; when clean, turn it inside out, then let it lie for 
a day or two in salt and water. Blanch the liver, lights, and heart 
of the sheep, lay them in cold water, chop all very fine — the liver 
you had better grate, — chop very finely a pound of the suet, and dry 
in the oven a pound of oatmeal ; mix all this well together, season 
with pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley and onion ; then sew 
up the bag ; before you finish sewing it, add a few spoonfuls of good 
white stock ; put it in a stewpan with a drainer ; boil it in water, 
keeping it well covered all the time, and prick it all over with a 
small larding pin, to keep it from bursting ; it will take several 
hours to boil ; be careful in taking it up, and let your dish be large 
enough. 

LEG OF MUTTON BRAISED. 

Procure a small leg of mutton of choice flavor, as it is best fitted 
for braising ; take off the knuckle neatly, divide it into two or three 
pieces, trim the leg of all the superfluous edges, and then half roast 
it; place it with the broken knuckle into a stewpan, add the trim- 
mings with half a dozen slices of rich fat bacon, thyme, knotted mar- 
joram, and other sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and about 
half an ounce of butter rolled in flour ; stew the whole gently, shaking 
it occasionally, and turn it while stewing ; when it is tender, take it 



84 HOW TO COOK, 

up, skim the gravy, strain, boil it last until it is reduced to a glaze, 
and serve. 

TO SEND A LEO OF MUTTON NEATLY TO TABLE WHICH HAS BEEN CUT 
FOR A PREVIOUS MEAL. 

Too much must not have been cut from the joint, or it will not 
answer the purpose. Bone it, cut the meat as a fillet, lay forcemeat 
inside, roll it, and lay it in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover 
it ; add various kinds of vegetables, onions, turnips, carrots, parsley, 
&c, in small quantities ; stew two hours ; thicken the gravy, and 
serve the fillets with the vegetables round it. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Must be well roasted, and sent to table with the skin a nice brown 
and serve with onion sauce. 

LOIN OF MUTTON STEWED. 

Remove the skin, bone it, roll it, then put it in a stewpan with a 
pint and a half of water, two dessert-spoonfuls of pyroligneous acid, 
a piece of butter, sweet herbs, and an onion or two ; when it has 
stewed nearly four hours, strain the gravy, add two spoonfuls of red 
wine, hot up, and serve with jelly. 

BREAST OF MUTTON. 

May be stewed in gravy until tender ; bone it, score it, season well 
with cayenne, black pepper, and salt ; boil it, and while cooking, 
skim the fat from the gravy in which it has been stewed, slice a few 
gherkins, and add with a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; boil 
it, and pour over the mutton when dished. 

BREAST OF MUTTON CRUMBED OR GRATIN. 

If one breast of mutton, cut off the chine bone down to the gristle ; 
if you have a stock-pot on, put the breast of mutton into it, let it 
boil until tender, then take it up to cool ; have ready as for the crumb 
ed cutlets, adding to the butter and egg a little chopped mushroom 
which strew all over it with a paste brush ; then put it on a dish and 
place it in the oven to brown ; the sauce will be under it when 
dished. 

NECK OF MUTTON. 

This dish is most useful for broth, but may be made a pleasant one 
by judicious cooking. To send it to table merely boiled or baked, is 
to disgust the partaker of it. When it is cooked as a single dish, 
first boil it slowly until nearly done, then having moistened a quanti- 



AND HOW TO CARVE, 86 

ty of bread crumbs and sweet herbs, chopped very fine, with the yolk 
of an egg, let the mutton be covered with it, and placed in a Dutch 
or American oven before the fire, and served when nicely browned. 
The breast may be cooked in the same manner. 

TO STEW A BRISKET Of LAMB. 

Cut it into pieces, pepper and salt well, and stew in sufficient gravy 
to cover th*e meat until tender, then thicken the sauce, and pour in a 
glass of sherry ; serve on a dish of stewed mushrooms. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Should be soaked in water, put for eight or ten minutes in boiling 
Water, and then into clear cold spring water, to blanch. They may 
be cut in slices, or in dice, and put into fricasees of meat or ragouts, 
or they may be served as a separate dish. 

SWEETBREADS AS CUTLETS. 

If you cannot get heart sweetbreads, you must use the throat. 
Blanch them for about ten minutes, then put them to cool in cold 
water ; then take them out and dry them in a cloth, cut longways 
twelve or fourteen pieces for cutlets, making them a nice shape ; if 
vou wish for them to be white saute cutlets, you must put some 
butter or lard in your cutlet-pan, juice of a lemon, a little white pep* 
per, and salt 5 do not color them, but take them up and lay them up- 
on white paper to soak up the grease from them ; dish them round 
upon a tureen, and pour the sauce upon the middle of them, 

lamb's head. 

Wash well a lamb's head and pluck, take out the brains, blauch 
them by themselves, boil the head and pluck for about a quarter of 
an hour, take it up to cool, take out the tongue, trim the two halves 
of the head neatly, and score it, then egg and bread-crumb them as 
you would cutlets, and brown them in the oven or before the fire. 
Cut up in small dice in equal quantities the tongue, liver, heart, and 
lights ; fry in a stewpan a little chopped parsley, shalot, and mush- 
room if you have it, to a nice light brown ; dry up the the butter 
with flour, use some good second stock or brown sauce ; season with 
lemon, cayenne pepper, salt, and a dust of sugar, put the eminceeS 
under the head, the brain, egg, and crumb in four pieces, and put 
round. 

SHEEP OR LAMB'S TROTTERS. 

Get a dozen or two of trotters, stew them for several hours, until 
all the bones will come from them 5 save the liquor ; do not break the 
skin, stuff them with good quenells or forcemeat ; return them again 
into the stock, boil them about fifteen minutes, and glaEe them ; 
iauce is good with them, or you may fry them with butter 



86 HOW TO COOK, 

SADDLE OF LAMB. 

This joint is now seen nearly as frequently at table as the fore* 
quarter, and, if well cooked, is certainly fine eating. Boast it quick" 
ly, but be very careful neither to scorch it nor to take it from the 
fire until it is done ; baste with the fat and gravy which fall from it, 
and in an hour and three quarters it will be done, unless larger than 
common, and then it will take two hours ; serve with mint and cu- 
cumber sauce. 

TO ROAST A LEG OF LAMS. 

The rules laid down for roast mutton must be scrupulously observed 
with respect to lamb ; let it roast gradually, and commence a distance 
from the fire ; a leg of five pounds will take an hour and a quarter, 
one of six pounds will take an hour and a half* 

TO BOIL A LEO OF LAMB. 

Put in sufficient clear cold soft water to cover it, let it remain half* 
an-hour ; a table-spoonful of vinegar or half a handful of salt may be 
thrown in ; put it into a thin white cloth which has been floured, 
and boil it ; a good-sized bundle of sweet herbs may be thrown into 
the saucepan ; if six pounds, it will be done in an hour and a half 5 
serve with spinach or French beans ; if sent to table cold, tastefully 
lay handsome sprigs of parsley about it ; it may, while hot, be garn- 
ished with parsley, with thin slices of lemon laid round the dish. 



PORK. 



When in season, the frequency of its appearance upon a homely 
table is no small proof of the estimation in which it is held. Like 
Veal, it is indigestible, especially when it is underdone. In roasting 
or in boiling, ample time should be allowed for the joints. Pork is 
always salted for boiling, and is much liked in this form. When sent 
to table roasted, apple sauce should in every case accompany it 

HOW TO CHOOSE PORK. 

In young pork the lean when pinched will break ; the thicknesa 
and toughness of the rind shows it to be old. Measly pork may be 
detected by the kernels in the fat ; it should not be eaten. Dairy-fed 
pork bears the palm over all others. 

TO ROAST A SUCKlftO PlO. 

A sucking pig should be dressed as soon after being killed as praG- 
tible. When scalded and prepared for cooking, lay in the belly a 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 8T 

stuffing of bread, sage, and onions, pepper and salt, witk a piece of 
butter, then sew it up, rub the skin of the pig with butter, skewer 
the legs back, that roasting the inside as well as outside of the pig 
may be thoroughly browned. It must be put to a quick fire, but at 
such a distance as to roast gradually, and a coating, of flour should 
be dredged over it that it may not blister, or it should not be left a 
minute ; if floured, when the pig is done scrape the flour off with a 
wooden or very blunt knife, and rub it with a buttered cloth ; cut of! 
the head, and dividing it, take out the brains, mix them with a little 
gravy or bread sauce ; divide the pig in half from the neck to tail, 
and lay each inside flap upon the dish, so that the two edges of the 
back touch ; place each half of the head with the outer side upper- 
most at each end of the dish, and an ear on each side ; the gravy 
should be poured in the dish hot, and the whole served as hot as pos- 
sible ; as a matter of convenience it is often sent to the baker's 
oven ; a large piece of butter should accompany it for the baker to 
baste it with, and upon its return, it should be cut and served as 
above. 

A LEG OF PORK ROASTED. 

The pork should be young and dairy-fed ; score the skin with a 
sharp penknife ; a little fresh butter is sometimes rubbed over the 
skin to make it brown, and crisp without blistering. Chop some 
sage that has been scalded very fine, add to it an onion parboiled, 
mix some bread crumbs and a small portion of finely-chopped apple ; 
mix altogether, season with pepper and salt, make an incision by 
separating the skin from the fat in the under and fillet end of the leg, 
and place the stuffing there ; serve up with apple sauce. The time 
of roasting will depend upon the size of the leg. 

A LEG OP PORK BOILED. 

After having been salted, it should be washed in clean cold water , 
and scraped thoroughly white and clean preparatory to cooking ; it 
should then be put into a floured cloth, and into cold water on the 
fire ; when the rind is quite tender the pork will be doue. Let the 
water be well skimmed, and serve with such vegetables as are in sea- 
son. Should the joint be large, allow a quarter of an hour to each 
pound, with an additional twenty minutes from the time it boils. 

LOIN OF PORK. 

Should, like the leg, be scored before roasting, and well jointed, to 
make the chops separate easily, and then roast as a loin of mutton ; 
or it may be put into enough water to cover it ; simmer until it is 
nearly done, then take it out, strip the skin off, coat it well with yolk 
of egg and bread crumbs, and roast for about a quarter of an hour, 
or until it is thoroughly done. 



88 HOW TO COOK, 



SPARE RIB. 



A spare rib will take two hours and a half to roast, unles3 very 
large, and then three hours will be required to cook it thoroughly 5 
while roasting, baste with butter and dredge with flour, pound some 
gage, and powder the spare rib with it about twenty minutes before 
it is done 5 a pinch of salt may be added. 



BOILED PORK — OP ALL KINDS. 



The leg you must skin the same as ham, and dish it back part up- 
wards, and glaze it ; place a ruffle at the knuckle ; use for sauce, 
sauer kraut, or stewed red cabbage ; peas pudding to all pork when 
boiled. 



PIG'S CHEEK — A HALF OWE. 

Boil and trim in the shape of ham and if very fat, carre it as a 
cockle-shell ; glaze it well, or put bread crumbs and brown them j 
sauce as before. 

PORK CUTLETS. 

Out from a neck, or what is called the fore-loin of pork, the best 
end ; trim it as you do lamb or mutton, leaving a little fat ; scrape 
the bone, rub or chop some sage fine, with a very little piece of sba- 
lot, mix it up with only sufficient bread crumbs, put black pepper 
and melted lard, press the crumbs well upon the cutlets, have a sauce- 
pan greased with lard, lay them into it, fry them a nice light brown, 
take them up and dry them on paper, and dish upon mashed pota- 
toes ; use tomato sauce, or any other as to palate. 

FORK CHOPS OR STEAKS. 

Out from the best end of the loin, or from the chumy or leg if 
steaks : remove the fat and skin and turn them frequently and quick- 
ly while broiling ; if your gridiron be of the old fashion it is better 
to keep it aslant on the fire, the handle being the lowest part, it pre- 
vents very much of the fat from falling into the fire, the flare of which 
is apt to impart a disagreeable flavor to the chops ; this observation 
applies also to mutton chops, and will be found useful if followed : 
sprinkle them with salt when nearly done, and rub with a little fresh 
butter previous to serving ; if for a side-dish garnish with crisped 
parsley. 

PIG'S HEAD BAKED. 

Let it be divided, and thoroughly cleaned; take out the brains, 
trim the snout and ears, bake it an hour and a-half, wash the brains 
thoroughly, blanch them, beat them up with an egg, pepper and salt, 
some finely chopped or pounded sage, and a small piece of butter j 
fry them, or brown them, before the fire; serve with the head. 



AND HOW TO CARVE, 89 

pig's head boiled. 

This 13 the more profitable dish, though not so pleasant to the pal- 
ate ; it should first be salted, which is usually done by the pork 
butcher, it should be boiled gently an hour and a-quarter ; serve 
with vegetables. 

PETTITOES. 

Put them in just sufficient water to cover them, add the heart and 
liver, boil them ten minutes, then take out the liver and heart, and 
mince them small, return them to the feet, and stew until quite tender) 
thicken with flour and butter, season with pepper and salt, and serve 
up with sippets of plain or toasted bread ; make a pyramid of the 
minced heart and liver, and lay the feet round them. When pettitoes 
are fried, they should first be boiled, then dipped in butter, and fried 
a light brown. 

PTG'S HARSLET. 

Is made with the liver and sweetbreads, which must be well clean* 
ed ; add to them pieces of pork, both fat and lean, chop finely sage 
and onions, season with pepper and salt, and mix with the preceding ; 
put them in a cowl, tie it closely, and roast. It may also be baked 
Serve with a sauce of port wine, water, and mustard, just boiled up, 
and put into the dish. 

TO CURE HAMS. 

Pound some bay salt, saltpetre, common salt, and some coarse sug* 
ar, mix it well together, then put it all in to get hot, and while hot, 
rub the hams well with this, repeating it every morning for a week ; 
then let them lie in the brine for another week, until all is well incor« 
porated in the meat ; then take them out to drain on dishes, flour 
them, and hang them up to dry. Tou must be guided a good deal by 
the size of the hams. 

TONGUES. 

You will first lay in salt, then use the same preparations as in the 
preceding, daily ; about ten days will do for the tongues ; sheep's 
tongues may be done the same way, but in less time. 

TO BAKE A HAM. 

Put the ham in soak previous to dressing it ; if an old one, two 
hours will be required, but if not very old, an hour will suffice. Wipe 
it very dry, and cover it with a paste about an inch in thickness. The 
edges being first moistened, must be drawn together, and made to 
adhere, or the gravy will escape. Bake it in a regular well-heated 
oven, it will take from three to six hours, according to its weight j 



90 HOW TO COOK, 

when done, remove the paste, and then the skin. This must be done 
when the ham is hot. If well baked, and not too salt, it will prove 
of finer flavor than if boiled. 

HAM RASHERS, OR SLICES, 

May be toasted, broiled or fried, and served with spinach and poach- 
ed eggs, or boiled green peas. Stewed with green peas, or cut in 
thin slices, divided in four pieces, each piece rolled and fastened with 
a skewer, roasted in a Dutch oven, and served with peas. They 
should in all cases, be cut in even thickness, and cooked without in* 
juring the color. Bacon may be dressed in the same variety. 

TO BOIL BACON. 

If very salt, soak it in soft water two hours before cooking. Put 
it into a saucepan with plenty of water, and let it boil gently ; if two 
or three pounds, it will take from an hour to an hour and a quarter ; 
i i larger, an hour and forty minutes will suffice. If a fine piece of 
the gammon of bacon, it may, when done, have the skin, as in hams, 
stripped off, and have finely powdered bread raspings strewed over 
it. 

BACON, TO BROIL. 

Make up a sheet of paper in the drippingpan, cut your bacon into 
thin slices, cut off the rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it over 
the gridiron, set it over a slow fire, and it will broil clearly. 

BACON AND CABBAGE. 

Boil some fine streaked part of bacon with a little stock, and the 
ends of eight or ten sausages ; boil in the same stock some white cab- 
bages for two hours, adding salt and spice, and serve very hot ; place 
your sausages and cabbage round your dish, and the bacon in the 
middle. 

BACON AND EGGS. 

Take a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, cut it into thin slices, 
and put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, taking care to turn 
them frequently ; then pour the melted fat of the bacon into a dish, 
break over it seven or eight eggs, add two spoonfuls of gravy, and a 
little salt and pepper, and stew the whole over a slow fire, pass a sala- 
mander over it, and serve. 

BACON TOAST. 

Cut some thin slices of bread, about two or three inches long, and 
some streaked bacon in small pieces, dip them into a raw egg beaten 
up with shred parsley, green onions, shalots, and pepper, fry 
over a slow fire, and serve with clear sauce and a little vinegar 
in it. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 91 

POULTRY. 

The best sort of poultry for table is the Dorking breed, they 
are five-toed, have white legs, and feathers of a greyish-white 
color. 

About three weeks before you want to use them, six or twelve 
fowls, according to your consumption, should be put into the coop, 
and, as you kill one or more, replace them, to keep up the stock ; 
for the first week feed them alternate days with boiled rice and 
soaked bread and milk, the remainder of the time mix barley- 
meal with the skimmings of your stock-pot and a spoonful of 
moist sugar; the windows of your poultry-house must be 
darkened. 

Fowls should be carefully drawn, so that the gall bladder is unin- 
jured, and should only be done through the vent. 

Roast with a brisk and clear fire. A capon will take five and thir- 
ty minutes ; smaller fowls a less time in proportion. A turkey of 
fourteen pounds will take two hours ; the time will inctease or de» 
crease with the weight. The same rule applies to geese; a large 
one will take an hour and a half, chickens take half an hour, 
pigeons ten minutes less. It must be understood that the adherence 
to the time will depend on the state of the fire, &c. ; a slow fire 
will make a longer time necessary, and, at the same time, spoil the 
poultry. 

POULTRY AND GAME HOW TO CHOOSE. 

Turkey.— The cock bird, when young, has a smooth black leg 
with a short spur. The eyes bright and full, and moist supple feet, 
when fresh ; the absence of these signs denotes age and staleness ; the 
hen may be judged by the same rules. 

Fowls like a turkey ; the young cock has a smooth leg and a short 
Spur ; when fresh, the vent is close and dark. Hens, when young, 
have smooth legs and combs ; when old, these will be rough ; a good 
capon has a thick belly and large rump, a poll comb, and a swelling 
breast. 

Geese 4 —-In young geese the feet and bills will be yellow and free 
from hair. When fresh, the feet are pliable ; they are stiff when 
stale. 

Ducks may be selected by the same rules. 

Pigeons, when fresh, have supple feet, and the vent will be firm ; 
if discolored and supple, they are stale. 

Plovers, when fat, have hard vents ; but, like almost all other 
birds, may be chosen by the above rules. 

Hares. — When a hare is young and fresh, the cleft in the lip is 
narrow, the body stiff, the ears tear easily, and the claws are smooth 
and sharp ; and old and stale hares will be the opposite of this. Bab- 
bite the same. 



92 HOW TO COOK, 

Partridges.— Yellow legs and a dark bill are signs by which a 
young bird may be known, and a rigid vent when fresh. When this 
part is green the bird is stale. 

to Bone birds. 

Begin to bone any birds by first taking out the breast bone, when 
you will have sufficient space to remove the back with a sharp knife, 
and then the leg bones ; the skin must not be broken but the meat 
of the legs must be pushed inwards. 

TURKEY ROAST. 

It is stuffed with either sausage meat or fillet of Veal stuffing', 
"While roasting, a piece of paper should be placed over the part 
stuffed, as, being bulky, it will catch the fire and become scorched, 
but keep the heat well to the breast, in order that it may be as well 
done as the rest of the bird. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with 
gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a tureen. To the sausage meat, 
If uged, add a few bread crumbs and a beaten egg. Turkey is some* 
times stuffed with truffles ; they are prepared thus : they must be 
peeled, and chopped, and pounded in a mortar, in quantities of a 
pound and a half; rasp the same weight of the fat of bacon, and mix 
it with the truffles. Stuff the turkey with it ; this stuffing is usually 
placed in the turkey two days previous to cooking, it is supposed to 
impart a flavor to the flesh of the fowl. Cut thin slices of fat bacon, 
and place over the breast of the turkey. Secure it with half a sheet 
of clean white paper, aud roast. Two hours will roast it. 

TURKEY BOILED. 

A hen bird is considered the best. It may be stuffed with truffles, 
or sausage meat. Boil it in a clean floured cloth ; throw some salt 
into the water in which it is boiled. Cover cloth, and simmer for two 
hours, removing the scum frequently. Serve with white sauce, or 
parsley and butter. 

TURKEY HASHED. 

Cut up the remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a stewpan with 
half a gill of sherry, shalots, truffles, mushrooms, chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper, and a little stock ; boil half an hour, and reduce to a 
thick sauce. When ready, add a pound of anchovies, and a squeeze 
of lemon. , Skim the sauce free from fat, and serve all together. 

TURKEY LEGS BROILED. 

Braise some undressed legs of turkey until tender, dip them in 
melted butter, or clear salad oil ; broil them a fine brown color, and 
ierve with sauee. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 93 



TURKEY POULT. 

Should be roasted without stuffing ; it will be done with a clear fire 
in twenty minutes. Serve with bread or gravy sauce. 

TO ROAST A GOOSE. 

Goose in itself is of a strong rich flavor, and requires both nicety 
in the cooking, as well as in the stuffing, to obviate that strength of 
flavor. There are many modes of stuffing ; for one mode, take two 
moderate sized onions, and boil them rapidly ten minutes, then chop 
them finely, mince sage to the quantity, of half the onion, add of 
powdered bread twice as much as of onion, pepper and salt it, intro- 
ducing a little cayenne, and then bind it with the beaten yolk of an 
egg. Potatoes mashed are sometimes introduced, but not frequently, 
into the body ; they should be mashed with floury potatoes mixed with 
a little fresh butter and cream, rather highly seasoned with cayenne 
and salt. Both ends of the goose should be secured when trussed, 
that the seasoning may not escape. It should be roasted before a 
quick fire, and kept constantly basted ; a piece of white paper may 
be placed over the breast while roasting, until it rises, and then it may 
be removed ; it will take from an hour and a half to an hour and 
three quarters ; serve with a rich brown gravy and apple sauce. 

Previous to sending to table, a flavoring may be made as follows : — 
to a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, add a quarter of a tea-spoon- 
ful of cayenne pepper, about the same quantity of salt, mix it evenly 
with a glass of port wine, and two glasses of rich gravy, make it hot, 
cut a slit in the apron of the goose, and pour it through just previously 
to serving. 

TO ROAST DUCKS. 

Ducks should be well plucked without tearing the skin, all the 
plugs being removed. Some cooks go so far as to skin the duck, 
holding it a minute by the feet in scalding water, that the skin may 
peel easier ; clean the insides thoroughly with a little warm water, 
and stuff them with the same stuffing as for geese, using a little more 
bread for the sake of mildness ; roast them before a brisk fire, but 
not too close, and baste very frequently ; they will take from half an 
hour to an hour, according to the age aud size ; when the breast 
plumps, they will be just done ; serve them with a rich brown gravy. 

TO BOIL DUCKS. 

Clean and pluck them, taking care that the skin be preserved from 
rents while plucking ; salt them for about thirty hours previous to 
cooking ; flour a clean white cloth and boil them in it, a moderate 
sized duck will take about an hour's boiling, make a rich onion sauce 
with milk, and send it to table with the duck. When the duck is 



94 HOW TO COOK. 

boiled fresh it may be stufled as for roasting, and served with the 
same description of gravy. 

STEWED DUCK. 

The ducks should be cut into joints, and laid in a stewpan with a 
pint of good gravy, let it come to a boil, and as the scum rises remove 
it ; season with salt and cayenne, and let them stew gently three 
quarters of an hour, mixing smoothly two tea-spoonfuls of fine ground 
rice, with a glass of port, which stir into the gravy, and let it have 
seven or eight minutes to amalgamate with it, then dish and send to 
table very hot. 

WILD DUCKS, OR TEAL. 

You must be very particular in not roasting these birds too much ; 
a duck about fifteen minutes, with a good fire ; baste them very fre- 
quently ; teal will, of course, take less time, but your fire and motion 
of the spit must be attended to, and when you dish it, unless preferred 
to be done by the gentleman at the table, draw your knife four times 
down the breast ; have ready a little hot butter, and juice of a lemon, 
cayenne pepper, a little dust of sugar, a glass of port wine, pour it all 
hot, at the last minute, over your ducks ; the remainder left of these 
birds the next day makes excellent salmi or hash, taking care of all 
the gravy that may remain. 

WDLD DUCKS. 

These birds require clean plucking and clean washing, which may 
be done by pouring warm water through the body after it has been 
drawn ; half' an hour before a brisk fire will suffice to roast them, and 
stuffing is not required. When it is sent to table, the breast should 
be sliced, and a lemon squeezed over it, the slices of the breast and 
the wings are the only parts really worth eating to a sensitive palate 
the strong flavour of the bird rendering it a dish only for those with 
peculiar tastes. 

ROAST FOWLS. 

If nicely trussed, make a stuffing of butter and some pepper, dry 
up the butter with a few bread crumbs, baste it well, adding flour 
and salt before you take it from the fire. If approved of, stuff the 
fowl with some good sausage-meat, truffles, or chestnuts. 

BOILED FOWLS. 

Flour a white cloth, and put the fowls in cold water, let them sim- 
mer for three quarters of an hour ; serve with parsley and butter, or 
oyster or celery sauce. The fowls may be covered with a white sauce 
if sent cold to table, and garnished with coloured calf's foot jelly of 
the hue of beetroot. 



AND ROW TO CARVE. 95 

FOWL BROILED. 

Separate the back of the fowl, and lay the two sides open ; skewer 
the wings as for roasting, season well with pepper and salt, and broil; 
send to table with the inside of the fowl to the surface of the dish, 
and serve mushroom sauce ; it is an admirable breakfast dish when a 
journey is to be performed. 

FOWL, ETC., HASHED. 

This receipt will serve for any but the very larger species of poul- 
try or game. Joint them, and cut a cutlet from each side of the 
breast : break the bones of the body, and put all into a stewpan with 
a pint of water, a small fagot of sweet herbs, one carrot sliced and an 
onion : let it stew an hour and three quarters, or two hours, then 
skim the fat from the gravy as it rises, strain it, skim again, and pour 
it into another stewpan ; thicken with a little butter and flour, and 
flavour with Harvey's sauce, or any sauce applicable to such a dish, 
a little pepper and salt, and ground nutmeg, or mace for seasoning ; 
add the fowl, and heat it thoroughly through without permitting the 
hash to come to a boil. Sippets of toasted or fried bread cut in dice 
surround the dish, in the centre of which the fowl is handsomely laid. 

GUINEA FOWL, ROASTED. 

The bird has very much the flavour of a pheasant, and should be 
allowed to hang as long as it can without being too far gone; it may 
be then trussed and dressed as a pheasant, or as a turkey. Serve 
with a rich brown gravy and bread sauce ; it will take from forty-five 
to fifty minutes to roast. 

MADE DISHES OF POULTRY. 

Partly roast the fowl, cut it up, detach the wings and legs, care- 
fully dividing side bones, neck bones, breast and back, in as hand- 
some pieces as possible ; take eight or ten large onions, which cut in 
slices of moderate thickness, make in a stewpan a layer of the sliced 
onion with some chopped parsley, then lay upon it some of the fowl, 
again a layer of the onion and parsley until the whole of the fowl and 
onion are used . place two bay leaves, about as much salt as would 
fill a large tea-spoon, four table-spoonfuls of olive oil, or, if that is not 
to the palate, substitute cream ; it should simmer gently until it 
is done and then be dished, the onion in the middle, serve with a lit- 
tle sauce. 

AN INDIAN PILAU. 

Truss a fowl, as for boiling, pass it a few minutes in the oven, 
raising it up with bacon or buttered paper ; fry some onions, a few 
bruised coriander seeds, and a few cardamum seeds whole, fry a nice 



yb HOW TO COOK, 

light colour four onions cut in slices, adding to this a gill or more of 
cream, when all fried in a little butter ; put in your fowl with some 
good veal stock, have ready some rice boiled in milk for two minutes, 
skim it off and add it to the fowl, frequently looking at it, and moving 
it, to keep it from sticking or burning ; let your fowl stew for a quar- 
ter of an hour before you add the rice, and do not let the rice get 
mashed ; season with cayenne pepper and salt, putting all the rice and 
liquor round the fowl. You can use rabbits, chickens, quails, or veal 
instead of fowl, the same way. 

CHICKENS BOILED. 

Care should be taken to select the chickens plump, or they form a 
meagre dish ; they should receive much attention in the boiling ; they 
require less time than a fowl, and are sent to table with white sauce, 
and garnished with tufts of white broccoli. 

CHICKENS PULLED. 

Kemove the skin carefully from a cold chicken, then pull the flesh 
from the bones ; preserving it as whole as you can. Flour them well 
and fry them a nice brown in fresh butter ; draw them, and stew in 
a good gravy well-seasoned ; thicken a short time before serving with 
flour and butter, and add the juice of half-a-lemon. 

CUTLETS OF CHICKEN. 

Remove the skin of two or three chickens . Bone all the joints 
except the wings, unless the fowl is very fleshy, and then remove 
them also, removing likewise breast bones ; flatten the flesh, and 
spread over them a seasoning of salt, cayenne, grated nutmeg and 
mace, the salt being in the greatest proportion. Coat them with 
beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. Have 
ready some good brown gravy seasoned and flavored with lemon 
pickle. Lay the cutlets in the centre of the dish, and pour the gravy 
over them. 

PIGEONS ROASTED. 

Yeal stuffing for pigeons, it improves the flavor ; they must be 
fresh and well cleaned ; butter and parsley may be served with them ; 
but parsley alone as a stuffing, though frequently used, is by no means 
so palatable as the veal stuffing, or one made with veal, the fat of 
bacon, and the crumbs of bread soaked in milk, and well seasoned. 
They are sometimes stuffed with truffles, or chesnnts and bacon, as 
turkey, covered with thin slices of fat bacon enwraped in vine leaves 
instead of paper. They receive a fine flavor, but are they worth so 
much trouble ? 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 91 

PIGEON — BROILED. 

Split the backs, season them highly, lay them over a clear brisk 
fire, and serve with mushroom sauce. 

PIGEONS STEWED. 

Take a white cabbage, cut it as if for pickling, then rinse it in clear 
cold water, drain it well, and put it into a saucepan with equal quan- 
tities of milk and water, boil it, strain off the milk, and take a por- 
tion of the cabbage and lay it in a stewpan ; soak the pigeons for 
half an hour in cold milk and water, season them well with salt and 
pepper, adding a little cayenne; then place them in the stewpan with 
the cabbage, cover them over with what remains, add some white 
broth, stew slowly until the pigeons are tender, thicken with a little 
cream, flour, and butter, let it boil, and serve up the pigeon with a 
puree of the cabbage. 

PIGEONS IN JELLY. 

Make some jelly of calf's foot, or if you have the liquor in which 
a knuckle of veal has been boiled, it will answer the same purposes; 
place it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, 
white pepper, a slice of lean bacon, some lemon peel, and the pigeons, 
which, being trussed, and their necks propped up to make them 
appear natural, season to your palate. Bake them ; when they are 
done remove them from the liquor, but keep them covered close, that 
their color may be preserved. Remove the fat, boil the whites of a 
couple of eggs with the jelly to clear it, and strain it ; this is usually 
done by dipping a cloth into boiling water, and straining it through, 
as it prevents anything like scum or dirt sweeping through the 
strainer. Put the jelly rough over and round the pigeons. 

TO POT PIGEONS. 

Season them well with pepper, cayenne, a little mace, and salt, 
pack them closely in a pan, cover them with butter, and bake them ; 
let them get cold, then take off the fat ; and put the pigeons into 
pots, pouring melted butter over them. 

WOOD PIGEONS. 

May be dressed exactly as tame pigeons, save that they require 
rather less time in the cooking, and the gravy or sance should be 
richer and of higher flavor. 

GAME, &0. 

VENISON — THE HAUNCH. 

"The observed of all observers," when venison epicures sit at table ; 
it is a joint, if properly kept, properly cooked, and served hot, must 



93 HOW TO COOK, 

})rove delicious to the palate. It should always hang a considerable 
eDgth of time, for the delicacy of its flavor is obtained by hanging 
only ; if it be cooked while fresh, it will not equal in any respect a 
haunch of mutton. 

The haunch of venison, when about to be roasted, should be washed 
in warm milk and water, and dried with a clean cloth ; if it has hung 
very long and the skin smells musty, it will be the safest plan to re- 
move the skin, and wrap the whole of the haunch in paper well greased 
with fresh butter. During the time it is at the fire, do not be afraid 
of basting it too much, it will require all the cook is likely to give 
it ; if it be a buck haunch, and large, it will take nearly four hours ; 
if comparatively small, three hours and a half will suffice ; if a doe 
haunch, three hours and a quarter will be enough. Remove the paper 
when it is done enough, and dredge quickly with flour, to produce a 
froth. Dish it and serve, but let there be nothing with it in the dish ; 
the gravy should be sent to table in its proper dish, accompanied by 
currant jelly. The haunch is not unfrequently roasted in a paste, 
which in its turn is enclosed in paper, and removed when the joint is 
nearly cooked. The above is the simplest and not the least palata- 
ble mode of sending it to table. 

TO DRESS VENISON. 

All venison for roasting should have a paste made of lard over it ; 
after having papered the meat with buttered paper, then your stiff 
paste upon the top of that, either dangle it or put it in *a cradle spit ; 
a few minutes before you require to take it up take off the paste and 
paper, baste it with some butter, salt it and flour it ; when done give 
it a few more turns round, and send it up very hot, your dish and 
gravy to be very hot also ; any dry pieces and the shank you will 
boil down with a little brown stock for the gravy ; send currant jelly 
in a boat, and French beans in a vegetable dish. 

HASHED VENISON. 

Cut and trim some nice thin slices of venison, fat and lean ; have 
a nice brown sauce made from the bones in scrag of the venison, put 
the meat you have cut into this sauce with the gravy that has run 
from the vension, and a glass of port wine. Cut up some of the fat 
into pieces an inch thick, put the fat in a stewpan, and some hot stock 
upon them ; when you have dished up your hash, which should be in 
a hot water dish, with a holey spoon, take out the fat, and sprinkle 
it all over the hash ; send up currant jelly. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Should not be stuffed. Grate bread crumbs into a shallow dish, 
place them before the fire to brown, shaking them occasionally, and 
send them to table with the birds. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 99 



PARTRIDGE — BROILED. 



Let the partridge hang until longer would make it offensive, then 
split it, and take a soft clean cloth and remove all the moisture inside 
and out ; lay it upon a gridiron over a very clear fire, and spread a 
little salt and cayenne over it. When it is done, which 'will be in 
twenty minutes, rub a little butter over it, and send it to table with 
mushroom sauce. 

PARTRIDGES STEWED. 

Partridges are differeutly trussed for stewing to what they are for 
roasting, the wings are fixed over the back, and the legs skewered. 
Take a piece of bacon, and put it with a small piece of butter in a 
stewpan ; fry it brown, put in the partridges so that the bacon covers 
the breast, and let them be very brown : add half a pint of gravy. 
Boil a cabbage, so that it is ready by the time the patridges are fried 
brown, chop it with pepper and salt, and a lump of butter. Add it 
with the gravy to the partridges, and stew slowly for an hour ; when 
dishing, place the bacon in the centre of the dish, lay the partridges 
upon it, and make a wall of the cabbage round. While stewing, turn 
the partridges often. 

TO ROAST GROUSE. 

Dress the birds as above, and serve on a toast; they will require 
twenty minutes less than black cock in roasting. When they are 
sent to table without the toast, serve with fried bread crumbs and 
bread sauce, or brown gravy instead of the bread crumbs. 

STUFFING FOR A HARE. 

After having either scraped or scalded the liver, scrape some fat 
bacon, a little suet, some parsley, thyme, knotted-majoram, a little 
shalot, a few crumbs of bread, pepper and salt, a few grains of nut- 
meg, beat it all well in a mortar with one egg y but if your hare is 
boned it will take more. You can dress a boned hare two wajs : 
either taking- each bone out but the head and the point of the tail ; 
but this will not keep so good a shape as if you only took out the 
back and rib bones, leaving the shoulders and legs on ; this way, when 
stuffed, will keep its shape best. 

PLOVERS. 

These birds must not be drawn, roast them before a brisk fire, but 
at a distance, and serve on toast with melted butter. 

WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES 

Should not be drawn, but have toast as for grouse under them, pass- 
ing out the tail, and chop it and spread it on the bird, lay them under 
the heads in the dripping pan. 



100 HOW TO COOK, 



WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. 



Koast them undrawn, serve them upon a toast, and take nothing 
with them but butter. 



BABBITS. 



You will roast the same as hares ; and if required to be stuffed — 
melted butter, chopped parsley, and the liver chopped, pepper and 
salt. 



BABBIT. 



Rabbits will form excellent side dishes, providing they are boned 
neatly, larded, and braised ; they may also be lined inside with bacon 
cut in thin slices, the fatter the better, and a stuffing added, which 
may be either the same as hare or veal. 



BABBITS. 



Fillet those the same as fillets of hare. You may if you wish, leave 
the fillet adhering to the leg, when removed so far from the back, 
turn it over upon the leg, and lard with bacon or truffles that side ; 
the bones are most excellent in your clear stock. 

TO BOAST BABBITS. 

The rabbit should hang in its skin from four to five days, a3 the 
weather will permit, then skin it, and make a strong seasoning of 
black pepper, ground allspice, cayenne, a little nutmeg, three parts 
of a gill of vinegar, and the same quantity of port wine. Let it re- 
main in this pickle a day and a half, turning and rubbing it frequent- 
ly ; staff" it, and truss it as a hare, and serve with the same sauce. 

BABBIT, BOASTED. 

Truss it with the head on, blanch the liver, heart, and kidneys, and 
chop them fine, with a little parsley and shalot, and some pepper and 
salt, put it into a little gravy and butter, and boil it a little ; either 
put the sauce in a boat, or in the dish under the rabbit. 

BODLED BABBITS. 

A rabbit should boil only twenty minutes, and boil slowly ; if lar- 
ger than common, an extra ten minutes may be allowed ; it should be 
sent to table smothered in onion sauce, and the water should be kept 
free from scum. It is trussed for boiling differently to what it is for 
roasting. 

BABBIT WITH ONIONS. 

Truss your rabbit, and lay it in cold water ; if for boiling, pour 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 101 

the gravy of onions over it, and if you have a white stock-pot on, boil 
it in that. 

CUTLETS OP FOWL AND GAME. 

The cutlets are, of course, larger from fowls, &c, than chickens, 
but they may be prepared in the same manner. The cutlets are usu- 
ally taken from the thighs, the wings boned, and from the fleshiest 
part ot the body. The French serve them with sippets of bread fried 
a light brown, and place each cutlet upon a sippet, pouring into the 
dish, but not over the cutlets, a rich brown gravy. 



VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 

Vegetables form a most important feature in the art of cooking. 
It is the boast of French cooks, that we neither know the value, the 
taste, or the virtues of them, unless they dress them for us — and, to 
do them justice, they dress them in an infinite variety of ways, and al- 
so render them delicious to the palate. Much depends upon boiling 
greens, and the manner in which it is done ; the water should be soft 
a handful of salt should be thrown into the water, which should be 
made to boil before the greens are put in ; it should then be made 
what cooks term " gallop' ' the saucepan should be kept uncovered ; 
when the greens siok, they are done, and they should be taken out, 
and quickly too. It is the skill which French cooks exhibit in con- 
triving and inventing made dishes, chiefly composed of vegetables, 
which has obtained for them the fame which it is in vain to deny 
they deserve ; they make the nature of the substances upon which 
they employ their skill, their study, and present them to the consumer 
in such fashion as shall, while it pleases the palate, not offend the di- 
gestion ; it would be as well if our cooks were to emulate their talent 
in a spirit of generous rivalry, by improving upon their example, ra- 
ther than run down their abilities with a sneer at the slight character 
of their courses, which, if composed of dishes '• made out of nothing,'" 
or, « so disguised, you cannot tell what you are eating," have at least 
the merit of gratifying the taste, and preventing the head from too 
plainly indicating that the stomach has received food of which it finds 
a difficulty in dispossessing itself, Vegetables are a most useful ac- 
cessory to our daily aliment, and should be made the object of a 
greater study than they usually are. 

CHARTREUSE OP VEGETABLES. 

Line a plain mould with bacon ; have ready some half-done car- 
rots, turnips, French beans cut long with a French cutter, all the 
same length, place them prettily round the mould, until you get to the 



102 HOW TO COOK. 

top, and fill in the middle with mashed potatoes, cauliflower, spinach, 
or some veal forcemeat ; put it on to steam, turn it out, and put as- 
paragus or mushroom sauce round it. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Let the stalks be lightly but well scraped, and as they are done, be 
thrown into cold water ; when all are finished, fasten them into bun- 
dles of equal size ; put them into boiling water, throw in a handful of 
salt, boil until the end of the stalk becomes tender, which will be 
about half-an hour ; cut a round of bread, and toast it a clear brown, 
moisten it with the water in which the asparagus was boiled and ar- 
range the stalks with the white ends outwards. A good melted but- 
ter must accompany it to table. Asparagus should be dressed as 
soon after it has been cut as practicable. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

When very young the ends and stalks only should be removed, and 
as they are done, thrown into cold spring water ; when to be dressed 
put them in boiling water which has been salted with a small quantity 
of common salt, in a quarter of an hour they will be done, the 
criterion for which is when they become tender ; the saucepan should 
be left uncovered, there should not be too much water, and they 
should be kept boiling rapidly. When they are at their full growth, 
the ends and strings should be taken off, and the beans divided length- 
ways and across, or according to the present fashion slit diagonally 
or aslant. A small piece of soda a little larger than a small-sized 
pea, if put into the boiling water with the beans, or with any vege- 
tables, will preserve that beautiful green which is so desirable for 
them to possess when placed upon the table. 

FRENCH BEANS, SALAD. 

Boil them simply, drain them and let them cool ; put them in a 
dish, and garnish with parsley, pimpernel, and tarragon, and dress like 
other salads. 

STEWED BEANS. 

Boil them in water in which a lump of butter has been placed ; 
preserve them as white as you can ; chop a few sweet herbs with 
some parsley very fine, then stew them in a pint of the water in which 
the leaves have been boiled, and to which a quarter of a pint of 
cream has beera added ; stew until quite tender, then add the beans, 
and stew five minutes, thickening with butter and flour. 

BEANS BOILED. 

Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savory, drain, and then put 
them into a stewpan, with five spoonfuls of sauce tournee reduced, 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 103 

the yolk of three eggs, and a little salt, then add a piece of fresh 
butter, and stir it constantly till of a proper thickness. 

WINDSOR BEANS. 

They should be young, and shelled only just previous to cooking ; 
salt the water in which they are to be cooked, and, when boiling, 
throw in the beans ; when tender, drain in a cullender, and send to 
table with plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. They usually 
accompany bacon or boiled pork to table. 

HARICOT BEANS. 

Take two handfuls of the white beans, and let them lie in boiling 
water until the skins come off; putting them in cold water as you 
do them, then take them out, and put them in a stewpan with some 
good stock, and boil them until nearly to a glaze, then add some good 
brown sauce to them, shaking them about ; season with sugar, salt, 
and pepper. 

BEEF ROOTS. 

Cut in equal sized slices some beet root, boiled or baked, of a good 
colour, make it hot between two plates in the oven, dish it as you 
would cutlets, round ; make a good piquant sauce, boil some button 
onions white and tender, aud throw them in the middle of the dish 
with the sauce. 

CABBAGES. 

A full grown or summer cabbage should be well and thoroughly 
washed ; before cooking, cut them into four pieces, boil rapidly, with 
the saucepan uncovered, half an hour ; a young cabbage will take on- 
ly twenty minutes, but it must be boiled very rapidly ; a handful of 
salt should be thrown in the water before the cabbage is put in. 

CABBAGE RED. 

They are mostly stewed to eat with ham, bacon, or smoked sausa- 
ges, though sometimes without any meat ; they are very strong eat- 
ing, and should be first scalded, then stewed with butter, pepper, salt 
and cloves, and vinegar added to it just before serving ; they are con- 
sidered wholesome in veal broth for consumptions, but are most pick- 
led. 

CAULIFLOWERS, TO BOIL. 

Trim them neatly, let them soak at least an hour in cold water, put 
them into boiling water, in which a handful of salt has been thrown, 
let it boil, occasionally skimming the water. If the cauliflower is 
small, it will only take fifteen minutes ; if large, twenty minutes may 



104 HOW TO COOK, 

be allowed ; do not let them remain after they are done, but take 
them up, and serve immediately. If the cauliflowers are to be pre- 
served white, they ought to be boiled in milk and water, or a little flour 
should be put into the water in which they are boiled, and melted 
butter should be sent to table with them. 

GREEN PEAS. 

A delicious vegetable, a grateful accessory to many dishes of a 
more substantial nature. Green peas should be sent to table green, 
no dish looks less tempting than peas if they wear an autumnal as- 
pect. Peas should also be young, and as short a time as possible 
should be suffered to elapse between the periods of shelling and boil- 
ing. If it is a matter of consequence to send them to table in per- 
fection, these rules must be strictly observed. They should be as near 
of a size as a discriminating eye can arrange them ; they should then 
be put in a cullender, and some cold water suffered to run through 
them in order to wash them ; then having the water in which they 
are to be boiled slightly salted, and boiling rapidly, pour in the peas; 
keep the saucepan uncoverd, and keep them boiling swiitly until ten- 
der ; they will take about twenty minutes, barely so long, unless older 
than they should be ; drain completely, pour them into the tureen in 
which they are to be served, and in the centre put a slice of butter, 
and when it has melted, stir round the peas gently, adding pepper and 
salt ; serve as quickly and as hot as possible. 

HOW TO COOK POTATOES. 

Potatoes should always be boiled in their " jackets ;" peeling a po- 
tatoe before boiling is offering a premium for water to run through it 
and making them waxy and unpalatable ; they should be thoroughly 
washed and put into cold water. 

TO BOIL NEW POTATOES. 

The sooner the new potatoes are cooked after being dug, the bet- 
ter they will eat ; clear off all the loose skins with a coarse towel and 
cold water; when they are thoroughly clean, put them into scalding 
water, a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes will be found sufficient 
to cook them ; strain off the water dry, sprinkle a little salt over the 
potatoes^ and send them to table. If very young, melted butter should 
accompany them. 

ROASTED POTATOES. 

Clean thoroughly ; nick a small piece out of the skin, and roast 
in the oven of the range ; a little butter is sometimes rubbed over the 
skin to make them crisp. 



AND HOW TO CARTE , 105 



FRIED POTATOES. 

Remove the peel from an uncooked potato. After it has been tho- 
roughly washed, cut the potatoe into thin slices, and lay them in a 
pan with some fresh butter ; fry gently a clear brown, then lay them 
one upon the other in a small dish, and send to table as an entremets. 

SPINACH. 

The leaves of the spinach should be picked from the stems ; it 
should then be well washed in clean cold water, until the whole of 
the dirt and grit is removed ; three or four waters should be employ- 
ed, it will not otherwise be got thoroughly clean : let it drain in a 
sieve, or shake it in a cloth, to remove the dinging water. Place it 
in a saucepan with boiling water, there should be very little, it will 
be done in ten minutes ; squeeze out the water, chop the spinach fine- 
ly, seasoning well with pepper and salt; pour three or four large 
spooufuls of gravy over it, place it before the fire until much of the 
moisture has evaporated, and then serve. 

LETTUCES AND ENDIVES. 

Are better, I think, only cut into pieces or into quarters, and dish- 
ed neatly round, but they must be done in some good stock, and not 
put into thick sauce ; but when you take them out after being done, 
you will press and form them, then boil down their liquor to a glaze, 
which will, when added to your already thick sauce, give the desired 
flavour, glaze the quarters before dishing them, pour the sauce under 
and round. 



PUDDINGS, TARTS, TARTLETS, ETC. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of butter, salt or fresh, and one pound of flour, will 
make a good dish of patty cases, or a large case for a vol-au-vent, 
and the remaiuder into a good dish of second course pastry. 

Put your flour upon your board, work finely in with your hands 
lightly a quarter of the butter, then add water sufficient to make it 
the stiffness or softness of the remaining butter ; each should be the 
same substance ; work it up smooth, then roll it out longways half an 
inch thick ; and place the remainder of the butter cut in slices half 
way on the paste ; dust flour lightly over it, and double it up ; press 
it down with your rolling-pin, letting it lie a few minutes, then roll it 
three times thinner each time, letting it lie a few minutes between 
each roll, keeping it free from sticking to the board or rolling-pin. 
This paste is ready for patty-cases, or vol-au-vent, or meat pies. 



L06 HOW TO COOK, 

PASTE FOR BORDERS OF DISHES. 

Six'or eight jolks of eggs, a few drops of water, a little salt, keep 
mixing in flour until so stiff that you can scarce work it, then beat it 
and work quite smooth, keeping it in the moist until you require it ; 
th?n roll it out quite thin, and cut your patterns, placing upon your 
dishes before it gets too dry,' dipping them on the bottom. Edge in 
while of eggs. 

FANCY PASTRY. 

Use some fancy cutter, and use the second paste as before, cutting 
each piece a quarter of an inch thick, then egg them and glaze them, 
and bake them a light brown ; when cold, put different colored sweet- 
meats, such as apple jelly and red currant jelly, into devices upon the 
top of each piece, and dish them upon a napkin. 

SWEET OR BISCUIT CRUST. 

Put half a pound of flour on your board, put into it two yolks of 
eggs, mix this all up that you cannot see the egg, then add a good 
dessert-spoonful of fine sifted sugar ; work it all well in the flour, 
then work in about two ounces of butter, and mix a little water or 
milk sufficient to make a stiff past. Beat it with your rolling-pin 
well, and work it well with your hands until quite smooth ; roll half 
a quarter of an inch thickness, for your tarts, either ior slip tarts or 
covered ; glaze the covered tarts either before going into the oven or 
after ; it first, beat up a little white egg, spread it on the top of your 
tart, then cover it with sifted sugar, and gently sprinkle the sugar 
with water until all is damped, then sugar it again, and bake it in a 
slow fire ; notch the edge of your tart very fine. 

CHERRY TART. 

Line the sides of a dish with good crust, strew in sugar, fill it with 
picked cherries, and put sugar at the top ; red currants may be added 
if liked, cover with crust, and bake. 

CURRANT TART. 

Line a dish with puff paste, strew powdered sugar over the bottom 
of it, then put in alternate layers of currants carefully picked, and 
sugar, till the dish is full, then cover and bake it. The addition of 
raspberries or mulberries to currant tart is a great improvement. 

QUINCE TART. 

Take a few preserved quinces, put an equal weight of syrup, made 
with sugar and water and preserve, into a preserving pan ; boil, skim, 
then put in the fruit ; when somewhat clear, place the quinces in a 
tart-dish with puff paste as usual. Cover, bake it, and, when done, 
lift the top gently, put in the syrup, ice it, and Eerve. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 107 

BEEP STEAK PIE. 

Take some good steaks, beat them with a rolling-pin, season them 
with pepper and salt ; fill a dish with them, adding as much water as 
will half fill it, then cover it with a good crust, and bake it well. 

COLD VEAL OR CHICKEN PIE. 

Lay a crust into a shallow tart dish, and fill it with the following 
mixture : shred cold veal or fowl, and half the quantity of ham, ir-ost- 
Iy lean, put to it a little cream, season with white and cayenne pep- 
per, salt, a little nutmeg, and a small piece of shallot chopped as fine 
as possible : cover with crust, and turn it out of the dish when bak- 
ed, or bake the crust with a piece of bread to keep it hollow, and 
warm the mince with a little cream, and pour in. 

EGG MINCE PIE. 

Take six eggs, boil them hard, then shred them very small ; take 
twice the quantity of suet, and chop it very fine ; well wash and pick 
a pound of currants, shred fine the peel of a lemon, add them with 
the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very 
small quantity of salt, orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Cover 
with a very light paste. 

LEMON MINCE PTES. 

Take a large lemon, squeeze the juice from it, and boil the outside 
till it becomes soft enough to beat to a smash ; put to it three large 
apples, four ounces of suet, the same of sugar, and half a pound of 
currants ; add the juice of the lemon, and some candied fruit, the same 
as for other pics. Make a short crust, and fill the patty-pans in the 
usual way. 

MINCE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. 

Take of currants, apples chopped fine, moist sugar, and suet well 
chopped, a pound of each ; a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned 
and chopped small, the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two 
lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg and mace to suit the palate, 
and a glass of braudy. Mix all together, put it in a pan, and keep 
it closely lied up. 

MUTTON PIE. 

Cut steaks from a neck or loin of mutton that has hung, beat them, 
and remove some of the fat, season with salt and pepper, and a little 
onion ; put a little water at the bottom of the dish and a little paste 
on the edge, then cover with a moderately thick paste, or raise small 
pies, and break each bone in two to shorten it, season and cover it 
over, pinching the edge. When they come out of the oven, pour in- 
to each a little second stock. 



108 HOW TO COOK 7 

PORK PIE. 

Cut a piece of the loin of pork into chops, remove the rind and 
bone, cat it into pieces, season well with pepper and salt, cover with 
puff paste, and bake the pie. When ready to be served, put in some 
cullis, with the essence of two onions mixed with a little mustard. 

SQJJAB PIE. 

Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton 
chops, shred onions, and sprinkle it among them, and also some su- 
gar. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mix together a spoonful of flour, a pint of milk, and one egg well 
beaten, add a spoonful of salt and a little ginger grated j put this 
mixture in a square pan buttered, and when browned by baking under 
the meat, turn the other side upwards, to be browned also ; serve it 
cat in pieces, and arranged upon a dish. If you require a richer pad 
ding, increase the number ot eggs. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, 

Pare a few good-sized baking apples, and roll out some paste, 
divide it into as many pieces as you have apples, cut two rounds from 
each, and put an apple under each piece, and put the other over, joiu 
the edges, tie them in cloths, and boil them. 

APPLE TART. 

Take some good baking apples, pare, core, and cut them into small 
pieces ; place them in a dish lined with puff paste, strew over pounded 
sugar, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, and lemon-peel chopped small, 
then add a layer of apples, then spice, and so on till the dish is full - ; 
pour a glass and a half of white wine over the whole, cover with 
puff paste, and bake it. When done, raise the crust, stir in two ounces 
of fresh butter, and two eggs well beaten, replace the crust, and serve 
either hot or cold. 

RASPBERRY TART. 

Put some raspberries in a patty-pan lined with thin puff paste, 
strew in some finely-sifted sugar, cover with puff paste, and bake it ; 
when done, take off the top, and pour in half a pint of cream, previ- 
ously mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweetened with 
a little sugar ; then return the tart to the oven for five or six 
minutes. 

STRAWBERRY TART 

Pat into a basV> two quarts of the best scarlet strawberries picked, 



AND sow to :aryk, 109 

add half a pint of cold clarified sugar, the same quantity of Madeira, 
•with the juice of two lemons, mix all well without breaking the straw- 
berries, and put them into a puff paste previously baked ; keep them 
very cool. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Line some small patty-pans with a fine puff paste, put a piece of 
bread into each, cover with paste, and bake them. While they are 
baking, take some oysters, beard them, and cut the remainder up into 
small pieces, place them in a tosser, with a very small portion of grated 
nutmeg, a very little white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon peel 
cut as small as possible, a little cream, aud a little of the oyster 
liquor ; simmer it a few minutes, then remove the bread from the pat- 
ties, and put in the mixture. 

meat patties. 

The patty-pans should not be too large ; make a puff paste, put a 
layer at the bottom of the tins, put in forcemeat, and cover with puff 
paste, bake them a light brown, turn them out. If for a small dinner, 
five patties, or seven for a large dinner, will suffice for a side dish. 

RICE PANCAItfiS. 

To half a pound of rice put two-thirds of a pint of water, boil it to 
a jelly ; when cold, add to it eight eggs, a pint of cream, a little salt 
and nutmeg, and half a pound of butter melted ; mix well, adding the 
butter last, and working it only so much as will make the batter 
sufficiently thick. iVy them in lard, but employ as little as it is poss* 
ible to fry them with. 

FRITTERS 

Are made of batter the same as pancakes. Drop a small quantity 
into the pan, have ready apples pared, sliced, and cored, lay them in 
the batter and fry them ; they may also be made with sliced lemon 
or currants, the latter is particularly palatable. They should be sent 
to table upon a folded napkin in the dish ; any sweetmeat or ripe fruit 
Will make fritters. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Take two or three large russeting apples, pare them thin, cut them 
half an inch thick, lay them on a pie-dish, pour brandy over them, 
and let them lie two hours ; make a thick batter, using two eggs, 
have clean lard, and make it quite hot ; fry two at a ume, a nice 
light brown, put them on the back of a sieve on paper, sift pounded 
sugar oVer them, glaze them with a shovel or salamander ; dish on a 
napkin. After they are cut in slices, take out the core with a small 
round cutter. 



110 HOW TO COOK, 

INDIAN CORN CAKES. 

Mix a quart of Indian meal with a handful of wheat flour, stir in a 
quart of warmed milk, a tea-spoonful of salt, and two spoonsful of 
yeast ; stir alternately into the milk, the meal and three well beaten 
eggs ; when light, bake as buckwheat cakes, on a griddle ; send tLem 
to the table hot. — Should the batter sour, stir in a little salseratus 
dissolved in luke»warm water, letting it set half an hour before bak> 
ing. 

BEST SPONGE CAKE. 

Take one coffee-cupful of sugar, and founr eggs ; beat them to a 
cream ; add a piece of salaeratus as large as a pea dissolved in a tea- 
spoonful of milk ; also a little nutmeg and essence of lemon ; stir in 
carefully a cofiee-cup of flour. Bake in a quick oven. 

A LIGHT CAKE. 

Take a pint bowl full and a half of sugar, one and a half cups 
of butter rubbed in two pint bowls of flour, two cups of sour cream, 
a tea-spoonful of salseratus, table-spoonful of rose water, four eggs 
well beaten, and a little nutmeg. . 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Take four cups of flour, four of sugar, two cups of butter, five eggs, 
half a pint of cream, tea-spoonful of salseratus, spice to suit your 
taste. Beat all well together, and bake in a butter tin or in cups. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKE. 

Take one pint of Indian meal and one cup of flour, a little salt and 
ginger, a table-spoonful of molases, a tea-spoonful of sakeratus, sour 
milk enough to make a stifi batter. Ba*ke them on a griddle like 
buckwheat cakes. 

COMMON PLUM CAKE. 

Mix five cups of butter with ten cups of flour five cups of sugar, 
add six cups stoned rasins, a little cinnamon and mace finely powder* 
ed, half a cup of good new yeast put into a pint of new milk, warm 
and mix the dough, let it stand till it is light. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound dried sifted flour, the same of loaf sugar, and the whites 
of twelve eggs and the yolks of seven. Beat the butter to a cream, 
add the sugar by degrees, then the eggs and flour ; beat it all well 
together for an hour, mixing a tea spoonful of rose water, a little 
nutmeg or cinnamon, two cups of cream, and a tea-spoonful of salser- 
atus. To be baked in a quick oven. 



AMD HOW TO CARVE, HI 



TEA CAKES. 



A quart of Hour, one pint of sour cream, tea-spoonful salaeratus, 
two cups of molasses, a little cinamon and salt, make a stiff paste, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



BREAKFAST BUTTER CAKES. 

One quart of sour milk, one tea-spoonful salaeratus, a little salt, one 
and a half cup of boiled rice, two table-spoonful molasses or half cup 
of sugar, a little ginger, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 

BUCK-WHEAT CAKES. 

Take one quart of buck- wheat meal, half a cup of new yeast, a 
tea-spoonful of salaeratus, a little salt and sufficient new milk or cold 
water to make a thick batter. Put it in a warm place to rise. 
When it has- risen sufficiently, bake it on a griddle or in a spider. 
The griddle must be well buttered, and the cakes are better to be 
small and thin. 

PLAIN INDIAN CAKES. 

Take a quart of sifted Indian meal, sprinkle a little salt over it, 
mix it with scalding water, stirring ; bake on a tin stove oven. In- 
dian Cake is made with butter-milk, or sour milk, with a little 
cream or butter rubbed into the meal, and a tea-spoonful of salaera- 
tus. 

BUTTER CAKES FOR TEA. 

Beat two eggs, put them in half pint of milk, and a tea-cup of 
cream, with half a tea-spoonful of salaeratus dissolved in the cream, a 
little salt, cinnamon and rose-water if you like, stir in sifted flour till 
the batter is smooth and thick. Bake them on a griddle or in a pan. 
Butter the pan well, drop the batter in small round cakes and quite 
thin. They must be turned and nicely browned. Lay them on a 
plate with a little butter between each layer. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One quart of flour, one pint of cream' a little sour cream, one tea- 
spoonful of salaeratus dissolved in the sour cream. If the flour is not 
made sufficiently wet with the above quantity of cream, add more 
sweet cream. 

ROLLS. 

Rub into a pound of flour half a tea-cup full of butter ; add half a 
tea-cup of sweet yeast, a little salt, and sufficient warm milk to make 
a stiff dough, cover and put it where it will be kept warm, and it will 
rise in two hours. Then make into rolls or round cakes. They will 
bake in a quick oven in fifteen minutes. 



112 HOW TO COOK, 



CUP CAKE. 



Take one cap of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, and 
four eggs. Tea spoonful of salseratus, nutmeg and rose-water. 



TEA CAEE. 



To four cups of flour add three cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup 
of butter, one cup of milk, and one spoonful of dissolved pearlash. 



INDIAN CAEE. 



Take three cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, one half a tea- 
cup of molasses, a little salt, one tea-spooni'ul of salaeratus, and mix 
them with cold water. 



LOAF CAKE. 



Two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of butter, three 
eggs, one gill of milk, half a tea-cup sweet emptyings, cinnamon and 
rose water. 



COMMON GINGER-BREAD. 



Take a quart bowlful of flour, and rub into a tea-cup of sweet but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, three of molasses, tea-cup of cream, tea-spoon- 
ful salaeratus, ginger to your taste. Make it stiff batter, bake in a 
quick oven. 



GINGER-BREAD. 



Four cups of flour, three eggs, one cup of butter, two of sugar, one 
of cream, ginger, nutmeg, salaeratus. 



ARROW-ROOT CUSTARDS. 



Four eggs, one desert spoonful of arrow-root, one pint of milk 
sweetened, and spiced to the taste. 



GINGER SNAPS. 



Take one pint of molasses, one tea-cup of butter, one spoonful of 
ginger, and one tea-spoonful of salseratus ; and boil all the ingredi- 
ents thoroughly ,• when nearly 6old, add as much flour as can be rolled 
into the mixture. 



JUMBLES. 



t Eub to a cream a pound of sugar, and hall a pound of butter ; add 
eight well beaten eggs, essence of lemon or rose-water to the taste 
and flour to make the jumbles stifl enough for rolling out. Koll out, 
in powdered sugar, about half an inch wide and four inches long, 
and form them into rings by joining the ends. Lay them on flat 
buttered tins, and bako in a quick oven. 



AND HOW TO GARVE. 



115 



CARVING. 

Ladies ought especially to make carving a study; at their own 
houses they grace ihe table, and should be enabled to perform the 
task allotted to them with sufficient skill to prevent remark, or the 
calling forth of eager proffers of assistance from good-natured visi- 
tors near, who probably would not present any better claim to a neat 
performance. 

Carving presents no difficulties ; it simply requires knowledge. 
All displays of exertion or violence are in a very bad taste ; for if 
not proved an evidence of the want of ability on the part of the 
carver, they present a very strong testimony of the toughness of a 
joint 

Lightness of hand and dexterity of management are necesssary,and 
can only be acquired by practice. The flakes which, in such fish as 
salmon and cod, are large, should not be broken in serving, for the 
beauty of the fish is then destroyed, and the appetite for it injured. 
In addition to the skill in the use of the knife, there is also required 
another description of knowledge, and that is an acquaintance with 
the best part of the joint, fowl, or fish being carved. Thus in a 
haunch of venison the fat, which is a favorite, must be served with 
each slice ; in the shoulder of mutton there are some delicate cuts in 
the under part. The breast and wings are the best parts of a fowl 
and the trail of a woodcock on a toast is the choicest part of the bird. 
In fish a part of the roe, melt, or liver should accompany the piece of 
fish served. The list, however, is too numerous to mention here ; and 
indeed, the knowledge can only be acquired by experience. In large 
establishments the gross dishes are carved at the buffet by the butler, 
but in middle society they are placed upon the table. In the following 
directions, accompanied by diagrams, we have endeavored to be as ex- 

f)licit as possible ; but while they will prove as landmarks, to the un* 
nitiated, he will find that practice alone will enable him to carve 
with skill and facility. 

Part op a Sirloin of Beef. 
There are two modes of helping 
this joint ; either by carving 
long thin slices from 3 to 4, and 
assisting a portion of the mar* 
rowy fat, which is found under- 
neath the ribs, to each person ; 
or by cutting thicker slice3 in 
the direction 1 to 2. When 
'sent to table the joint should be 

kid down on the dish with the surface 2 uppermost 




114 



HOW TO COOK, 




Boast Pig. 
bread sauce and stuffing should accompany it 
are favorite parts with many people. 



Sucking Pig. The cook 
should send a roast pig to 
table as displayed here, garn- 
ished with head and ears, 
carve the joints in the direc- 
tion shown by the lines in the 
diagram, then divide the ribs, 
serve with plenty of sauce ; 
should one of the joints be 
too much, it may be separated : 
An ear and the jaw 




An Aitch-Bone or Beef. 
This is a simple joint to 
carve, but the slices from it 
must be cut quite even, and 
of a very moderate thick- 
ness. When the joint is 
boiled, before cutting to 
serve, remove a slice from 
the whole of the upper 
part of sufficient thickness, 
say a quarter of an inch, 
in order to arrive at the 
Aitch-Bone. juicy part of the meat at 

once. Carve from .1 to 2 ; let the slices be moderately thin — not too 
thin; help fat with the lean in one piece, and give a little additional 
fat which you will find below 3; the solid fat is at 1, and must be 
cut in slices horizontally. The round of beef is carved in the same 
manner. 

Ham. It is served as plac- 
ed in the engraving, and 
£ should come to table orna- 
mented. Carve from a to 

b, cutting thin slices slant- 
ingly, to give a wedge-like 
appearauce. Those who pre- 
fer the hock carved at d, in 
in the same direction as from 
a to b, then carve from d to 

c, in thin slices, as indicated 




Ham. 



in the diagram. 



Boiled Tongue. Carve across the tongue, but do not cut 
through ; keep the slices rather thin, and help the fat from under- 
neath, 



AND HOVT TO CARVE, 



115 




The Sirloin op Beef 
The under part should 
first served, and carv- 
ed as indicated in the 
engraving-, across the 
bone. In carving the 
upper part the same 
directions should be 
followed as for the 
ribs, or in the centre, 
from a to b, and help- 
ing the fat from d. 
Brisket op Beep, must be 
carved in the direction I and 2 
quite down to the bone, after 
cutting off the outside, which 
should be about three-quarters 
of an inch thick. 



Ribs op Beep are carved similar to the sirloin, commencing at 
the thin end of the joint, and cutting long slices, so as to assist fat and 
lean at the same time. 

Round or Buttock op Beep. — Remove the upper surface in the 
same manner as for an aitch-bone of beef, carve thin horizontal siicea 
of fat and lean, as evenly as possible. Tt requires a sharp knife and 
steady hand to carve it well. 

Saddle op Mut- 
ton. The tail end 
is divided in the en- , 
graving, and the 
kidneys skewered 
under each division: 
this is a matter of 
taste, and is not al- . 
ways done. Carve 
from a to b in thin 
slices, help fat from 
the vertebras on 
Saddle of Mutton. on both sides of the 

loin, and then carve crosswise as marked in the engraving, which 
give.-! you both fat and lean ] help a slice of kidney to those who de- 
sire it, 




116 



MOW TO C00&, 




Leg of Mutton. 



Leo of Mutton. The 
tinder or thickest part of 
the leg should be placed 
Uppermost, and Carved in 
slices moderately thin, 
from B to o. Many per- 
sons have a taste for the 
knuckle, and this ques- 
tion should be asked, 
and if preferred, should 
be assisted. When cold' 
the back of the leg should 
be placed uppermost, and 
thus carved; if the cramp 



bone is requested, and some persona regard it as a dainty, hold the 
shank with your left hand, and insert your knife at D, passing it 
round to e, and you will remove it. — ' — 

Hibs of Beef. There are two modes of carving this joint j the 
first, which is now becoming common, and is easy to an amateur car* 
ver, is to cut across the bone commencing in the centre, and serving 
fat from a, as marked in the engraving of the sirloin, or it should be 
carved in slices from'A to c, commencing either in the centre of the 
joint or at the sides,. Occasionally the bones are removed, and the 
meat formed into a fillet ; it should then be carved as a round of beef, 

The Loin of Mutton if small, should be carved in chops, begin- 
ning with the outer chop ; if large, carve slices the whole length. A 
neat way is to run the knife along the chine bone and under the meat 
along the ribs, it may then be cut in slices as shown in the engraving 
of the saddle of mutton ; and by this process fat and lean are 
served together ; your knife should be very sharp and it should be 
done cleverly. 

Neck of Mutton, if the scrag and chine bone are removed, is 
Carved in the direction of the bones. 

The Scrag of Mutton should be separated from the ribs of the 
neck, and when roasted the bone assisted with the meat. 
Haunoh of Mutton is carved as haunch of venison. 

Roast Fowl. This operation is a 
nice and skilful one to perform ; it re* 
quires both observation and practice* 
Insert the knife between the legs and 
the side, press back the leg with the 
blade of the knife, and the joint will 
^disclose itself : if young it will part, 
^HT" ^ but at best, if judiciously managed, 
will require but a nick where ths 




AND HOW TO CARV. 



lit 




Joints unite. Remove your wing from d to b, cut through and lay it 
back as with the leg, separating the joint with the edge of your knife, 
remove the merrythought and neck bones next, this you will accom- 
plish by inserting the knife and forcing it under the bones, raise it 
and it will readily seperate from the breast. You will divide 'the 
breast from the body by cutting through the small ribs down to the 
vent, turn the back uppermost, now put your knife into about the 
centre between the neck and rump, raise the lower part firmly yet 
gently, it will easily seperate, turn the neck or rump from you, take 
off the side bones and the fowl is carved. 

In separating the thigh from the drumstick, you 
must insert the knife exactly at the joint, as we have 
indicated in the engraving ; this however will be found 
to require practice, for the joint must be accurately 
hit, or else much difficulty will be experienced in 
getting the parts asunder. There is no difference in 
carving roast and boiled fowls, if full grown ; but in a 
very young fowl when roasted, the breast is served 
whole. The wings and breast are in the highest 
favour, but the leg of a young fowl is an excellent 
part. Capons when very fine and roasted, should 
lave slices carved from the breast. 

Geese. Follow with your knife the 
lines marked in the engraving, a to b, 
and cut slices, then remove the wing, 
and if the party be large, the legs must 
, also be removed, and here the disjointer 
' will again prove serviceable. The stufl- 
ing, as in the turkey, will be obtained 
by making an insertion at the apron c. 
Guinea Fowl are carved in the same manner. 

Quails, Landrail, Wheatears, Larks, and all small birds are 
served whole. 

Grouse and Plover are carved as partridges. 

Snipe and Woodcock are divided into two parts ; the trail being 
served on a toast. 

Fish should never be carved with steel ; assisting requires more 

care than knowledge ; the prin- 
cipal caution is to avoid breaking 
the flakes. In carving a piece of 
salmon as here engraved, cut thin 
slices, as from a to b, and help 
with it pieces of the belly in the 
direction marked from c to d, 
the best flavored is the upper o; 
thick part. 





118 



HOW TO COOK, 




Cod's Head and Shoulders. Carry the knife from 1 to 2, and 

then along the line to 5, help 
slices accompanied by some of 
the sound, which is to be found 
lining the back, and which you 
may obtain by passing the 
knife under the back-bone at 
5 ; serve also a piece of liver- 
Many choice parts lie in this 
dish, and by inquiry you will 
soon ascertain which they 
Cod's Head. are. 

Haddock. It is dressed whole, unless unusually large. When 
sent to table it is split its whole length, and served one-half the head 
to the tail of the other part ; it is carved across. 

Mackerel should always 
be sent to table head to tail, 
divide the meat from the bone 
by cutting down the back 
lengthwise, from 1 to 2, upper 
pans the best. All small fish 
such as herrings, smelts, <fcc, 
are served whole. 




Neck of Veal. — 
Were you to at- 
tempt to carve each 
chop, and serve it, 
you would not only 
place a gigantic bit 
upon the plate of 
the person you in- 
tended to help, but 
you would waste time, and if the vertebra has not been jointed by 
the butcher, you would find yourself in the position of the ungraceful 
carver, being compelled to exercise a degree of strength which should 
never be suffered to appear, very possibly, too, assisting gravy in a 
manner not contemplated by the person unfortunate enough to receive 
it. Cut diagonally from b to a, and help in slices of moderate thick- 
ness ; you can cut from c to d in order to separate the small bones, 
divide and serve them, having first inquired if they are desired. 

Loin op Veal. This joint is sent to table served as sirloin of beef. 
Having turned it, over, cut out the kidney and the fat return it to its 
proper position, and carve it as in the neck of veal, from b to a 
help with it a slice of kidney and fat. The kidney is usually placed 
upon a dry toast when removed from the joint. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 



119 




The Breast of 
Veal. Separate the 
ribs from a to b ; 
these small bones, 
which are the sweet- 
est and mostly cho- 
sen, you will cut 
them as at d d d, 
and serve. The long 
ribs are divided a sat 
c c c ; and having 
ascertained the pre- 
ference of the pesron, help accordingly ; at good tables the scrag is 
not served, but is found, when properly cooked, a very good stew. 

Calf's Head. There is 
much more meat to be ob- 
tained from a calf's head 
by carving it one way 
than another. Carve from 
a to b, cutting quite down 
to the bone. At the fleshy 
part of the neck end you 
will find the throat sweet- 
bread, which you can help 
a slice of with the other 
part ; you will remove the eye with the point of the knife, and divide 
it in half, helping those to it who profess a preference for it, there are 
some tasty, gelatinous pieces around it which are palatable. Remove 
the jaw-bone, and then you will meet with some fine-flavored lean ; 
the palate, which is under the head, is by some thought a dainty, and 
should be proferred when carving. 

Boiled Turkey is trussed in a 
different fashion to the roast, but 
the same directions given for the first 
applies to the second. The legs in 
the boiled turkey being drawn into 

e body may cause some little dif- 
ficulty at first in their separation, 
but a little practice will soon sur 
Boiled Turkey. mount it. 





Shoulder of Yeal is sent to table with the under part placed up- 
permost. Help it as a shoulder of mutton, beginning at the knuckle 
end. 



120 



HOW TO COOK, 




Fillet op Veal. Cut a slice 
off the whole of the uppor part 
in the same way as from a rouDd 
of beef, this being, if well roast- 
ed, of a nice brown, should be 
helped in small pieces with the 
slices you cut for each person. 
The stuffing is skewered in the 
flap, and where the bones 
comes out there is some placed; 
help this with the meat, with a 
piece of the fat. 

A Shoulder of Mutton. 
This is a joint upon which a 
great diversity of opinion ex- 
ists, many professing a species 
of horror at its insipidity ; 
others finding much delicacy 
of flavor in certain parts. In 
good mutton there is no doubt 
but that if properly managed 
it is an excellent joint, and 
if judiciously served, will give 
satisfaction to all who partake of it. It should be served hot. It is 
sent to table lying ou the dish shown in the annexed engraving. Come 
mence carving from a to b, taking out moderately thin slices in the 
shape of a wedge ; some nice pieces may then be helped from the 
blade bone, from c to b, cutting on both sides of the bone. Cut the 
fat from d, carving it in thin slices. Some of the most delicate 
parts, however, lie on the under part of the shoulder ; take off thin 
pieces horizontally from 3 to c,and from a ; some tender slices are 
to be met with at d, but they must be cut through as indicated. 

The shoulder of mutton is essentially a joint of tit-bits, and 
therefore, when carving it, the tastes of those at table should be 
consulted. It is a very insipid joint when cold, and should there- 
fore be hashed if sent to table a second time. 

Wild Duck and Widgeon. The breast of these fowls being the 
best portion, is carved in slices, which, being removed, a glass of old 
port made hot is poured in, the half of a lemon seasoned with cay- 
enne and salt should then be squeezed in the slices, relaid in their 
places, and then served, the joints being removed the same as in 
other fowl. 

Partridge. Separate the legs, and then divide the bird into 
three parts, leaving each leg and wing together. The breast is 
then divided from the back, and helped whole, the latter being assist- 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 



121 



ed with any of the other parts. When the party consists entirely of 
gentlemen only, the bird is divided into two by cutting right through 
from the vent to the neck. 

Pigeon. Like woodcock, these birds are cut in half, through 
the breast and back, and helped. 

Roast Turkey. — Cut long slices 
from both sides of the breast down 
to the ribs, at a b to the breast 
bone. If a large bird the legs may 
be removed, and the drumsticks 
taken off. The joint of the pinion 
# is just below b. The stuffing may 
be removed by making an incision in the apron. 

Boiled Fowl. — There is but little difference in the mode of carv- 
ing roast and boiled 
fowl, and that little 
lies in the breast of 
the former being gen- 
erally served entire — 
the thigh bone, too, is 
preferred by many to 
the wins:. 






Boiled Fowl— breast. 



Boiled "Fowl 



—back. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, & . 

Custards. — Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon, 
mix a pint of cream, and the yolk of eggs beaten ; when the milk 
tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole, pour it into 
the cream, and stir it well, then give the custard a simmer till of a 
proper thickness ; do not let it boil, and stir it one way the whole 
time ; then flavor with a large spoonful of peach-water, and two of 
brandy. If the custard is required very rich, use a quart of cream 
and no milk. 

Lemon Custard, — Take the yolks of ten eggs beaten, strain them, 
and whip them with a pint of cream ; boil the juice of two lemons, 
sweetened, with the rind of one'; when cold strain it to the cream 
and eggs ; when it almost boils, "put it into a dish, grate over the rind 
of a lemon, and brown with a salamander. 

Black Currant Jelly. — Make it the same way as red currant 
jelly, using very coarse sugar. 



122 HOW TO COOK, 

Eice Custards. — Take one tea-spoonful of rice flour, a pint of new 
milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table-spoonful of ratafia ; sugar to li- 
king ; mix the rice very smooth, and stir it, with the eggs, into the 
boiling milk. 

Cherry Ice Cream. — Pound half a pouud of preserved cherries 
unstoned, put them into a basin with a pint of cream, the juice of a 
lemon, and a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it in 
the usual way. 

Currant Ice Cream. — Put into a basin a large spoonful and a half 
of currant jelly, with half a gill of syrup ; squeeze in the juice of one 
lemon and a half, add a pint of cream and a little cochineal, pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it in the usual way. 

Lemon Ice Cream. — Take the juice of four lemons and the peel of 
one grated, add two gills of syrup aud one pint of cream, mix it all 
together, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. — Pass a pint of picked strawberries 
through a sieve with a wooden spoon, add four ounces of powdered 
sugar, and a pint of cream, and freeze. 

Water Ices. — If made from jams, you must rub them through a 
sieve, adding thick boiled syrup, and lemon juice, and some jelly and 
coloring, if for pink, and the white of an egg whipt up, before you 
add it to the best half-pint of spring water ; if for jam. you must 
have a good pint of mixture in all, to make a quart mould ; if from 
fruits with syrup, you will not need water. 

Apple Jelly. — Pare and core five dozen of pippins, put them in 
a pan with enough water to cover them, let them boil gently until 
soft ; let them cool, then strain them through a jelly-bag, put the juice 
in your preserving-pan, and to each pint of juice put one pound of 
fine sugar and the peel of two lemons, then boil it until reduced to 
the stiffness of calfs-foot jelly, skim it well, and add the juice of a 
lemon ; if you cannot get the pippin, any acid apple will do. 

Ked Currant Jelly. — Set on the fire in a pan a pint of clarified 
sugar, when it boils put in a quart of picked red currants, in which 
let them boil for half an hour , skim it well, and at times add a little 
cold water to raise the scum ; when boiled enough, run the liquor 
through a sieve into a basin into which you have squeezed three lem- 
ons, then put in some isinglass and set your jelly in a mould on ice to 
cool. 

White Currant Jelly. — Take the seeds from a dozen pounds of 
white currants, and put them into ten pounds of clarified sugar ; take 
your saucepan from the fire, stir the jelly lightly with a skimmer, then 
boil it up twice, after which pass it through a sieve ; replace it over 
the fire, taking care to keep the sides of the pan clean with a sponge 
so that the jelly does not become colored by the heat in boiling, skim 
it, and finish the same as the red jelly. 



AND HOW TO CARVE. 123 

Calves'-foot Jelly. — Chop up two calves' feet, put them ou with 
about four quarts of water to boil ; this should be done the day be- 
fore you require the jelly ; keep it well skimmed and boil gently all 
day, it will then be reduced to about two quarts ; the next morning 
take off all the grease and wash the top with a little warm water, then 
rinss it with cold ; place the stock in the proper-sized stewpan to al- 
low it to boil well, then put in a paring of lemon, without any white 
adhering to it, two or three cloves, a piece of cinnamon, a few bruis- 
ed coriander seeds, a bay leaf, let it boil for a few minutes, and then 
take it off' to get cool. Have ready broken in a bowl six or eight 
whites of eggs and the shells, chop them up together, squeeze five or 
six lemons, strain the juice, add sugar to the whites of eggs, and a 
glass of cold water, then add the lemon juice ; add all this well mixed 
to the calves'-foot stock, place it on the fire and let it rise to the top 
of your stewpan, being careful it does not go over ; then take it from 
the fire, place on the cover, and put some hot coals upon it, let it be 
still a few minutes, and then run it repeatedly through the jelly-bag 
till beautifully bright and clear : flavor with whatever is desired. 

Cherry Jelly. — Having taken the stalks and stones from two 
pounds of dark red fleshy cherries, put them in a basin, pound the 
kernels, and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a tammy, mash 
the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting first in half a pot of cur- 
rant jelly, then the kernels, lastly the lemon juice, and mix these well 
together ; then having boiled and skimmed a pint of clarified sugar 
and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly-bag, pour the sugar, &c, 
over them, and run it through till quite clear ; if not sufficiently 
sweet add more sugar, — if the contrary, add more lemon-juice ; wet 
the mould, set it in ice, and fill it with the jelly, but do not turn it out 
till the last minute. 

Lemon Jelly. — Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the fire, 
and dilute it with a little water ; when it boils and has been well 
skimmed, put in two ounces of clarified isinglass with a little lemon 
peel cut very thin ; let these boil till you have squeezed through a 
sieve into a basin the juice of six lemons, then pass your sugar and 
isinglass to it, and set it in a mould like other jellies ; when turned 
out, garnish with dried jellies. 

Bum Jelly. — To a quart bottle of common white wine, add a 
pound of lump sugar reduced to syrup and clarified, then take an 
ounce of isinglass, dissolve it thoroughly, strain it through a sieve, 
and mix it with the syrup milk warm : when this mixture is nearly 
cold, pour it into the white wine, mix it by stirring it well, then add 
a spoonful, or more if desired, of old Jamaica rum, stir it and pour it 
into a mould, or glasses, if intended for evening parties. 

Marmalade — maybe composed of almost any fruit, the best being 
apricots, peaches, oranges, quinces, apples, &c< They are made by 



124 HOW TO COOK, 

boiling the fruit and sugar together to a sort of pulp, stirring them 
occasionally while on the fire ; it is kept in pots, which must not be 
covered till the marmalade is quite cold ; the proportion of sugar is 
half a pound to each pound of fruit. 

Apple Marmalade. — scald apples until they will pulp from the 
core, then take in large lumps the same quantity of sugar as apple ; 
amp the sugar in water, then boil them, keeping it well skimmed; 
boil it until it is of a thick syrup, then put it to the pulped apple , 
boil it over a quick fire about a quarter of an hour, add the grating 
of one lemon and six cloves, but take the cloves out again ; then fill 
your jars. 

Blancmange. — Take one ounce of picked isinglass, boil it in a 
pint of water with a bit of cinnamon till it is melted, add three quar- 
ters of a pint of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six bitter ones 
blanched and beaten, and a bit of lemon peel ; sweeten it and stir it 
over the fire. When it boils, strain it, and let it cool, squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, and put it into moulds. Garnish according to fan- 
cy- 

To Clarify Sugar. — Take the quantity of fine white loaf sugar 
you intend to clarify, add to it half a pint of very clean warm water 
for every pound ; when dissolved, add to it the white of one or two 
eggs — as the quantity may require — well whipped, put it on the fire; 
and when it comes to a boil, pour into it an ordinary tea-cupful of 
cold water ; on its rising again to a boil, remove it, and let it settle 
for twenty minutes ; skim the scum from the top, pour off the syrup 
into a clean vessel with sufficient quickness to leave all the sediment 
at the bottom, and such steadiness as to prevent any of the latter ri» 
sing and mixing with it. 

THE END. 




DECIDEDLY THE BEST COOK BOOK EVES PUBLISHED. Price 25 Cents. 







JS '^-^vl 



% HOW TO COOK ; m 

I 




A N J) 



H W TO CARVE. 

GIVING PLAIN AND EASILY UNDERSTOOD 
DIRECTIONS FOR 

Preparing, Cooking & Serving, 



WITH THE GREATEST ECONOMY, EVERY KIND OF DISH 



I 

w 

r 

1 

! 
1 

m 




HOW TO CARVE 

ALL KINDS OF MEAT, POULTRY, 
GAME AND FISH. 



NEW YORK : 
FREDERIC A. BRADY, 

No. 126 Xassau-Stuect. 




r^J^i 



Single Copies sent free of postage on receipt of pric3 




THE CHEAPEST PAPER IN THE UNIVERSE! 



THE WELCOME GUEST; 

THE CHEAPEST, FUNNIEST, AND BEST 

MONTHLY PUBLICATION 

EVER OFFERED TO THE READING COMMUNITY. 



The Publisher of THE WELCOME GUEST has no hesitation 
in setting -forth his claims to universal patronage: he offers too 
much, if anything, and expects THE WELCOME GUEST will 
be welcome in every sense of the word — as a cherished Guest in 
every family in the Union. 

THE WELCOME GUEST is 

Published 1 st of every Month, 

AT THE LOW RATE OF 

TWENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR. 

containing a great variety of 

Selected and Original Entertaining Matter, and Instruc- 
tive Answers to Correspondents, 

WITTY JOKES, SHORT STORIES, 

THRILLING ADVENTURES, LAUGHABLE YARNS, 
IMPORTANT RECIPES, ROMANTIC SKETCHES, 

EXCELLENT POETRY. 

All that is best in Polite Literature, 
In Historical Information, In Wit and Humor, 

In Art Records, In Romance and Reality. 



NOTICE. 

Any person or club of persons, -who will send us (post paid) two dollars for eight 
subscriptions to our paper, or for two dollars' worth of our books, we will, in return, 
send to their address (postage paid) any fifty cent book published by us ; and any 
one who will send the name or names of their friends, we will send a specimen copy, 
of our Paper to their address gratis. Address, post paid, 

FREDERIC A. BRADY, 

120 Nassau Street, N. Y. 



New, Complete, Useful, and Cheap. 



LETTER WRITING 

MADE EASY, 

SHOWING PLAINLY 

How to Compose Letters upon almost every Subject. 

AND GIVING NUMEROUS EXAMPLES OF MODEL STYLES FOR 

Letters on Love, Friendship, Business, Legal Affairs, 

&c, &c. 

So that the most illiterate may easily learn to write an effective and correct 

epistle. 

S&SP 1 * Copies sent, postage free, on receipt of 13 cents. 

F. A. BRADY, Publisher 

of "Dickens' Household Words" 

126 Nassau Street. 

HOW TO COOK 

AND 

HOW TO CARVE, 

GIVING PLAIN, PRACTICAL & EASILY UNDERSTOOD 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING & COOKING, 

WITH THE GREATEST ECONOMY, 

Every kind of Dish from the simulest to the most difficult. . 

I 

ALSO, 
SHOWING HOW TO PRESERVE EVERY DESCRIPTION 

OF 

"V^Ea-ETA-BLE Sz, FRUIT 3 

IN THE BEST, CHEAPEST, AND MOST PALATABLE STYLE. 

Price, 25 Cents. 

Published by FRED. A. BRADY, 

12G Nassau Street. 

B3T Single Copies sent on receipt of price. 



NOTICE TO ^.LL. 

F. A. BRADY would state that he is new selling all his Publications at prices 
which are, in themselves, a vert/ special inducement to Dealers, whatever may be 
the extent of their trade, to open accounts with him. His discounts, as is already 
well known, are larger than those of any other house in the trade ; a fact which 
will, he trusts, induce all dealers who are not already in correspondence with him 
to give him a trial. 

He deals in and supplies everything of interest to the trade, and sells at prices 
which cannot fail to give the most thorough satisfaction. Booksellers and News 
Agents would do well to order direct from the Publisher, as they will be supplied at 
an earlier date than they can possibly get them from other houses. 



BRADY'S PUBLISHING HOUSE. 

126 Nassau. Street, N". Y. 

FREDERIC A. BRADY, 

(Successor to E. D. LONG,) 

BOOKSELLER & PUBLISHER I 

And N. Y. Agent for the Works Published by 

T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS, PHILABELPHIA, 

And Publisher of CHARLES DICKENS' HOUSEHOLD WORDS, the most 
popular Magazine of the day. Subscription, $3.00 per year. 



NEW IBOOIKS 3NTO-W IR E ^ ID -2-- 



By G. W. UL. Reynolds. 

Empress Eugenie's Bou- 
doir, complete paper, 50 

The Young Duchess, com- 
plete r. 

Imogen Hart land, 

Canonbury House, 

Ada V i-imdcl, 

Olivia, 

L.eila 

Karama n 

O mar Pasha, 

Catharine Volmar, 

The White Lady, 

Wagner, 

Fa ust 



By Pierce Egan. 

The Snake in the Grass, 

complete 

The Flower of the Flock, 
ljady Blanche, complete, 



Ellen Akenza, 

Life in the far West, 

]>larie L«essalre, 

The Mexican's Bride, 



Books by Popular Authors. 

The Royal Favorite, paper, 50 

The Rival Beauties 



Richard of York, 

Romance of War ' 

Herbert " 

The Flying Cloud, " 

Forecastle Yarns, " 

The Patriot Cruiser, " 

The Maid of the Ranche,. " 

The Maniac's Secret, " 

New American Joker, — " 
Pastry Cook's and Confec- 
tioner's Assistant " 

How to Cook and How to 

Carve,; " 

Hoiue Truths for Younp Wives " 

JLetter Writing Made Easy,.. " 

New Song Books, IUustrated. 

50 1 Charley Fox's Ethiopian Song 
50 Book, 



13 



G»-o. Christy's Ethiopian Joke 
Book, No. 2 13 

Charley Fox's Hi ion Song B'k, 13 

Geo. Christy's Ethiopian Joke 
Book, No. 3 13 

Christy's Clown Joke Book, . . 13 



&3F" Any Work in this List will be sent to any place, free of postage, on receipt of 
price. Address as above. 

BK^* Brady's Mammoth Catalogue of all the best and most popular Books sent free 
of postage. Send Cash Orders to 

FREDERIC A. BRADY, 126 Nassau St., N. Y. 



mm 






■N\fSfs!\ 



Pl\M 



Wfiflu* "^: W -a' ] ._***.** AaaAA-.C* 



Wtoft 






^AfV v n» 









^AflA^Kft 



*A*K, 



^£ta&$a« 



.*«^jtf 



MeM B m$Wlfi%fw- 






nf\f\ ..AftAAAftft. 



.a.^W*. 






■tf'i»«Ai»M^ 



Wl A«T^W« /VH 



ww»: 



i^» 



*<\.AA / WVft 



■*% '* ao-nv-* 



W?«4 



LaA 



iWftft 



fePS^i^?^-" 






^ymmtrx 



/nO'Ja, . aA 



a ^%M 



m£irmh, 









00a w 



'mBmm^m?M 



^aAA.AaaA/V 



^aaaA 



hutimhrsfi 



rsfr ^Va'^^Aa 



^^ 



RR^S'^a 



HAAff *A 



AAf UT .Aft 



^A$s' 






UaA^AaIAV 



w 



§5 


; V 



A ^'^V^aAA' 






m r -w. 



mmmM 



AWfW^U 






