
1 

1 
1 

1 










«MMM«|^ 



e 



> 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2007 witli funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



k 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/domesticcookeryuOOIeae 



r^ B P^, 5 P!" IF 



m •m ^ >» 



J -^ 



f 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



BY 



ELIZABETH E. LEA. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY 



USEFUL RECEIPTS, 



HINTS TO YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS. 



ELIZABETH E. LEA 



'The Source of Liberal Deeds is Wise Economy. 



TENTH EDITION. 

BALTIMORE: 

CUSHINGS AND BAILEY. 

1859. 



73893' > 



EirriRiD, according to the Act of Congress, in tlie year 1851, by 

JOSEPH CUSHINQ JR. 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of MaiylaniL 



ADVERTISEMENT TO THIRD EDITION. 



This Work having passed through two editions, 
and having met with a very favorable reception, the 
Authoress has been induced to thoroughly revise 
and re-arrange the whole work. Numerous additions 
have also been made, particularly under the heads 
Miscellaneous Receipts and Hints to Young House- 
keepers, which she hopes will be found to have 
enhanced its value. 



INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 



The compiler of "Useful Receipts and Hints to 
Young Housekeepers" having entered early in life 
upon a train of duties, was frequently embarrassed by 
her ignorance of domestic affairs. For, whilst receipt 
books for elegant preparations were often seen, those 
connected with the ordinary, but far more useful part 
of household duties, were not easily procured; thus 
situated, she applied to persons of experience, and 
embodied the information collected in a book, to which, 
since years have matured her judgment, she has added 
much that is the result of her own experiments. 

Familiar, then, with the difficulties a young house- 
keeper encounters, when she finds herself in reality 
the mistress of an establishment, the Authoress offers 
to her young countrywomen this Work, with the 
belief that, by attention to its contents, many of the 



Vlll INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. 

cares attendant on a country or city life, may be 
materially lessened ; and hoping that the directions are 
such as to be understood by the most inexperienced, it 
is respectfully dedicated to those who feel an interest 
in domestic affairs. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



AND 



USEFUL RECEIPTS. 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 



To Boil Fresh Meat. 

In boiling fresh meat, care is necessary to have the 
water boiling all the time it is in the pot; if the pot 
is not well scummed, the appearance of the meat will 
be spoiled. 

Mutton and beef are preferred, by some, a little 
rare; but pork and veal should always be well done. 
A round of beef that is stuffed, will take more than 
three hours to boil, and if not stuffed, two hours or 
more, according to the size ; slow boiling is the best. 
A leg of mutton requires from two to three hours boil- 
ing, according to the size ; a fore-quarter from an houi 
to an hour and a half; a quarter of lamb, unless very 
large, will boil in an hour. Veal and pork will take 
rather longer to boil than mutton. 

All boiled fresh meat should have drawn butter 
poured over it, after it is dished, and be garnished 
with parsley. 
2 



10 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

The liquor that fresh meat, or poultr}', is boiled in, 
should be saved, as an addition of vegetables, herbs, 
and dumplings make a nourishing soup of it. 

A large turkey will take three hours to boil — a smal' 
one half that time; secure the legs to keep them from 
bursting out; turkeys should be blanched in warm 
milk and water; stuff them and rub their breasts with 
butter; flour a cloth and pin them in. A large chicken 
that is stuffed should boU an hour, and small ones half 
that time. The water should always boil before you 
put in your meat or poultry. When meat is frozen, 
soak it in cold water for several hours, and allow 
more time in the cooking. 

To Boil a Turkey. 

Have the turkey well cleaned and prepared for cook- 
ing, let it lay in salt and water a few minutes; fill it 
with bread and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, pars- 
ley and thyme ; secure the legs and wings ; pin it up 
in a towel ; have the water boiling, and put it in; put 
a little salt in the water; when half done, put in a little 
milk. A small turkey will boil in an hour and a 
quarter; a middle sized in two hours, and a large one 
in two and a half or three hours; they should boil 
moderately all the time; if fowls boil too fast, they 
break to pieces ; — half an hour will cook the liver and 
gizzard, which should be put round the turkey; when 
. it is dished, have drawn butter, with an egg chopped 
and put in it, and a little parsley; oyster sauce, and 
celerv sauce are good, with boiled turkey or chicken. 

To Boil Beef Tongue, Corned Beef. &c. 

If the tongue is dry, let it soak for several hours; 
put it to boil in cold water, and keep it boiling slowly 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 11 

for two hours; but if it is just out of the pickle, the 
water should boil when it goes in. 

Corned or pickled beef, or pork, requires longer 
boiling than that which is dry; you can tell when it is 
done by the bones coming out easily. Pour drawn 
butter over it when dished. 

To Eoil a Ham. 

A large ham should boil three or four hours very 
slowly ; it should be put in cold water, and be kept 
covered during the whole process ; a small ham will 
boil in two hours. All bacon requires much the same 
management, — and if you boil cabbage or greens with 
it, skim all the grease off the pot before you put them 
in. Harn or dried beef, if very salt, should be soaked 
several hours before cooking, and should be boiled in 
plenty of water. 

To Boil Calf's Head. 

Cut the upper from the lower jaw, take out the 
brains and eyes, and clean the head well ; let it soak 
in salt and water an hour or two; then put it in a 
gallon of boiling water, take off the scum as it rises, 
and when it is done, take out the bones; dish it, and 
pour over a sauce, made of butter and flour, stirred 
into half a pint of the water it was boiled in ; put in 
a chopped egg, a little salt, pepper, and fine parsley, 
when it is nearly done. You can have soup of the 
liquor, with dumplings, if you wish. 

To Boil Veal. 

Hav^a piece of the fore-quarter nicely washed and 
rubbed with flour; let it boil fast; a piece of five 
pounds will boil in an hour and a half; dish it up with 



12 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

drawn butter. Oyster sauce is an improvement to 
boiled veal. 

Roasting Meat. 
Roasting either meat or poultry requires more atten- 
tion than boiling or stewing; it is very important to 
baste it frequently ; and if the meat has been frozen, 
it should have time to thaw before cookincf. Beef, 
veal, or mutton, tJiat is roasted in a stove or oven, 
requires more Hour dredged on it than when cooked 
before the fire in a tin kitchen. There should be but 
little water in the dripping pan, as that steams the 
meat and prevents its browning; it is best to add more 
as the water evaporates, and where there is plenty of 
tlour on the meat it incorporates with the gravy and 
it requires no thickening; add a little seasoning before 
you take up the gravy. Meat that has been hanging 
up some time should be roasted in preference to boil- 
ing, as the fire extracts any taste it may have acquired. 
To rub fresh meat with salt and pepper will prevent 
the flies from troubling it, and will make it keep 
longer. 

To Roast a Turkey — to make Gravy, &c. 

A very large turkey will take three liours to roast, 
and is best done before the fire in a tin oven. Wash 
the turkey very clean, and let it lay in salt and water 
twenty minutes, but not longer, or it changes the 
color ; rub the inside with salt and pepper ; have 
ready a stufling of bread and butler, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, an onion, if agreeable, 
and an egg ; if the bread is dry, moisten it with boil- 
ing water; mix all well together, and fill the turkey; 
if you have fresh sausage, put some in the craw ; 
have a pint of water in the bottom of the dripping 



MEATS AND POULTRY. IS 

pan or oven, with some salt, and a spoonful of lard, 
or butter ; rub salt, pepper and butter over the breast ; 
baste it often, and turn it so that each part will be 
next the fire. 

Gravy may be made from the drippings in the oven 
by boihng it in a skillet, with thickening and sea- 
soning. Hash gravy should be made by boiling the 
giblets and neck in a quart of water, which chop 
fine, then season and thicken ; have both the gravies 
on the table in separate tureens. 

Cranberry and damson sauce are suitable to eat 
with roast poultry 

l^o Roast a Goose. 

Make a stuffing of bread, butter, salt, pepper, sage, 
thyme and onions ; it requires but little butter, as 
geese are generally fat; wash it well in salt and water, 
wipe it, and rub the inside with salt and pepper. A 
common sized goose will roast in an hour, and a small 
one in less time ; pour off nearly all the fat that drips 
from the goose, as it will make the gravy too rich. 
Make hash gravy of tlie giblets the same as for turkey. 

Ducks. 

Wild ducks aie generally cooked without stuffing; 
and for those that like them rare, fifteen or twenty 
minutes will be long enough; for common ducks, 
a stuffing should be made the same as for a goose ; 
they will roast in half an hour. Currant jelly and 
apple sauce should be eaten with ducks and geese. 

Chickens. 

A large fowl will roast in an hour, and a small one 
m half an hour ; boil the livers and gizzards in a 

2* 



14 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

skillet with a pint of water; thicken and season foi 
gravy. The breasts of the chickens should be rubbed 
with buller or lard to keep them from breaking. 
Tie the legs in, to keep them from bursting out. 
When butter is scarce, it is a good way to make rich 
short cake to stuff poultry with ; it will require nothing 
added but pepper, parsley, &c. 

To Roast Beef. 

Season the beef with pepper and salt, and put it in 
the tin kitchen, well skewered to the spit, with a pint 
of water in the bottom ; baste and turn it frequently, 
so that every part may have the fire. A very large 
piece of beef will take ihree hours to roast; when it 
is done, pour tlie gravy out into a skillet, let it boil, 
and thicken it with flour mixed with water ; if it be 
too fat, skim off the top, which will be useful for 
other purposes. 

To Roast Veal and Lamb. 

Veal should be well seasoned, and rubbed with 
lard; when it begins to brown, baste it with salt and 
water; a large loin will take from two to three hours 
to roast, the thin part of the fore-quarter an hour; it 
should be well done ; boil up and thicken the gravy. 
A leg of veal or mutton may be stuffed before baking. 

Lamb and mutton do not require to be rubbed with 
lard, as they are generally fatter than veal; make the 
gra^vy as for veal. A quarter of lamb will roast in an 
hour; a loin of mutton in two hours. 

To Roast a Pig— Hash Gravy, &c. 

Have a pig of a suitable size, clean it well, and rub 
the inside with pepper and salt. Make a stuffing of 



MEATS 'AJMD POULTRY. 15 

bread, butler, parsley, sage and th}ane ; if the bread 
is stale, pour a little boiling water on it ; mix alto- 
gether ; fill the pig, and sew it up with strong thread ; 
put in the skewers and spit, and tie the feet with 
twine ; have a pint and a half of water in the bottom 
of the tin kitchen, with a spoonful of lard and a little 
salt, with this baste it; and turn it, so as each part 
will have the benefit of the fire. It should be basted 
until the skin begins to get stiff wuth the heat of the 
fire; then grease it all over with butter or lard, and 
continue to turn it before the fire, but baste no more, 
or the skin will blister. A pig will take from two to 
three hours to roast, .according to the size; when it is 
done, pour the water out in a skillet; season it and 
thicken it with flour and water. To make hash gravy, 
put the liver and heart to boil in three pints of water; 
after they have boiled an hour, chop them very fine, 
put them back in the pot, and stir in a thickening of 
flour and water, with salt, pepper, parsley and thyme. 
Have the gravies in separate tureens on either side of 
the pig. Apple sauce and cold slaw are almost indis- 
pensable with pig. 

To Roast Pork. 

After washing the pork, cut the skin in squares or 
stripes; season it with salt and pepper, and baste it 
with salt and water; thicken, and boil up the gravy. 

To Bake a Stuffed Leg of Veal 

Cut off the shank, and make holes round the bone 
for stuffing, which should be of bread and butter, the 
yelk of an egg, and seasoning; fill the holes Avith this, 
and spread it over the top, with little pieces of the fat 
of ham; dust salt and pepper over, put it in the dutch- 



16 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

oven, or (.lii])ping pan, and bake it biown; put a pinl 
of water in the bottom, and if it should dry up, put in 
more; when it is done, dust in some tlour for tlie 
gravy. If done carel'ully, meat is ahnost as good 
roasted in tlie stove as before the tire. If you let the 
gravy boil over in the stove, it makes an unpleasant 
smell through the house, and spoils the flavor of the 
meat. The ham of fresh pork is good, done in the 
same way. 

To Bake a Pig's Head. 

Have the head nicely cleaned, with Uie eyes taken 
out, and the ears cut off; season it witli salt and pep- 
per; rub crumbs of bread over, with a spoonful of 
lard; put it in the dutch-oven, or dripping pan, with 
a pint of water; bake it an hour; thickeh and season 
the gravy. 

To Cook Pigeons. 

Pigeons should be roasted about fifteen minutes 
before a quick fire; as the meat is dry, they should 
have a rich stuffmg, and be basted with butter. 

You may bake them in a dutch-oven or stew them 
in a pot, with water enough to cover them, and some 
crumbs of bread or Hour dusted over them; let them 
cook slowly half an hour; mix together flour and 
water, with salt, pepper, and parsley to season, and 
a lump of butter; stir this in and let it boil up; put 
them in a deep dish and pour the gravy over. Pigeons 
make a very nice pie in the same way as chickens. 

To Bake a Ham. 
Make a dressing of bread, seasoned with pepper and 
herbs, moisten it with about five eggs, instead of water. 
Take a ham that has been cut at the table, either fresh 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 17 

or salt, fill up the place where it has been cut, and 
cover the top with the dressing, bake it half an hour, 
and garnish it with parsley before sending it to the 
table. 

To Bake Beef's Heart. 

After washing the heart, make a rich stuffing with 
bread and suet, highly seasoned ; fill it with this, and 
put it in a dutch-oven, or the dripping pan of a stove, 
with half a pint of water; let it bake an hour and a 
half; the gravy will not need any thickening, as some 
of the stuffing will fall out. Put the gravy in the dish. 

Beef Alamode. 

Take part of a round of beef, bone it, and make 
holes for stuffing, which is made of bread, suet, thyme, 
parsley, chopped onions, mace, cloves, pepper, salt 
and a raw egg; stuff the meat, bind it with tape, and 
put it in a dutch-oven, with a plate in the bottom to 
keep it from burning; just cover it with water, and let 
it stew from three to four hours according to the size. 

Make gravy with some of the water it was stewed 
in, seasoned with claret and butter, and thickened with 
flour. If you wish it to taste of any other sort of 
wine, add a glass to the gravy. 

Beef Steak, 

Choose the tenderest part of beef, cut it an inch 
thick, broil it gently over good coals, covered with a 
plate; have butter, salt, pepper, and a little water in a 
dish; and when you turn the beef, dip it in this; be 
careful to have as much of the juice as you can. Wlien 
done, put it in a warm dish, and pour the basting over, 
with some more butter. 



18 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

Mutton Chops. 

Cut some pieces of muUon, either witli or without 
bone, about an inch thick ; have the gridiron hot, first 
rubbing it with a little suet; put on the chops, turning 
them frequently, and butter and season them with 
pepper and salt as you cook them ; then dish them on a 
hot dish and add more butter. 

Rabbltrf and Squirrels. 

Rabbits and squirrels, or birds, may be fried as 
chickens, or stewed in a pot with a little water. If 
you make a pie of rabbits or squirrels, they should be 
stewed first to make them tender, and then made in 
the same way as chicken \ne. Rabbits cxe very good 
cooked with chopped onions, in a pot witli a little 
water, and thlckenin^r of milk and Hour stirred in when 
they are nearly done. Squirrels make very good soup. 

To Fry Ham. 

Slice the ham, and if it is very salt, pour boiling 
water on it, and let it soak a while; then fry it with a 
small piece of lard; when done, dish it; mix together 
flour, milk, parsley and pepper, let it boil, and pour it 
over the ham. 

To Fry Beef with Kidney. 
Cut the kidney in small pieces; take out all the 
strings, and let it soak several hours in salt and water ; 
wash and drain it; season some pieces of beef and 
kidney, and put them in a frying pan, with hot lard or 
drippings of any kind; dust a little flour over; when 
it is fried on both sides, take it up in a dish; mix a 
spoonful of flour in some water with salt and pepper, 
and pour in; when it has boiled, pour it over the beef. 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 19 

To Fry Liver. 

Liver should be cut across the grain in slices about 
half an inch thick; pour boiling water over it, drain 
and season it with pepper. and salt; flour each piece 
and drop it in a frying-pan of hot bacon drippings ; do 
not fry it any longer than it is done, or it will be hard; 
take it up in a dish, make gravy as for beef, and pour 
over it. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Cut the veal in slices near an inch thick; wash, 
drain, and season it; beat up an egg, and have ready 
some pounded crackers or bread crumbs; dip the 
slices first in the egg, and then in the bread, and fry 
them in hot lard ; mix a gTavy of flour and water, with 
salt, pepper and parsley; when the veal is taken up, 
pour it in; let it boil a few minutes and pour it over 
the dish, and grate a little nutmeg over. 

To Fry Veal, Lamb or Pork. 

Cut up tlie meat in thin slices, and season it; dip it 
in flour and drop it in a pan of hot lard; when brown, 
take it up, and make gravy with flour, milk, parsley, 
pepper and salt, which stir in. 

To Stew Veal, Lamb or Pork. 

Cut the meat small, season it, and put it in a pot 
with water enough to cover it ; let it cook for half an 
hour; then pour in thickening of flour and milk, with 
parsley and thyme, and a piece of butter, (if the meat 
is not fat;) take it up in a deep dish. 

Brains and Tongue. 

Pour boiling water on the brains, and skin them ; 
tie them tight in a doth, and boil them and the tongue 



20 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

with the head; when done put them on a plate, chop 
three leaves of green sage fine, and beat up with the 
brains; spread them round a small dish, and after skin- 
ing the tongue, place it in the middle. 

Veal Hash. 

Take the lights, heart, and some of the liver; boil 
them in a pint of water; when done, take them out 
and chop them fine; season it with salt, pepper and a 
little sweet marjoram ; put it back in the pot, and 
thicken it with butter and flour; let it boil a few 
minutes, and dish it in a small tureen. 

Brain Cakes. 

When the head is cloven, take out the brains and 
clear them of strings, beat them up witli the yelks of 
two eggs, some crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, fine 
parsley, a spoonful of cream, and a spoonful of flour; 
when they are well mixed, drop them with a spoon 
into a frying-pan with a little hot butter, and fry them 
of a light-brown color. 

Force Meat Balls, 

Take a pound of veal, half a pound of suet, two 
slices of ham, and some crumbs of Ijread, chop them 
very fine, and put in the yelks of two eggs; season it 
with parsley, thyme, mace, pepper and salt; roll it 
into small balls, and fry them brown. 

They are nice to garnish hashes, roast veal or cut- 
lets, and to put in soup. 

To Fry Veal's Liver. 

Cut the liver and heart across the grain, wash it well, 
pour boiling water on, and let it stand a few minutes, 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 21 

then drain iind season it with salt and pepper, flour it 
and drop it in hot hird; when it is brown on both 
sides, dish it; dust a little flour in the pan, and pour 
in some Avater, let it boil a minute, stirring in a season- 
ing of parsley, thyme, or sweet marjoram; pour the 
gravy over the liver. This is a good breakfast dish. 

To Fry Veal Sweet Breads. 

Dip them in the yelk of an egg beaten, then in a 
mixture of grated bread, or flour and salt and pepper; 
fry them a nice brown. 

To Stew Sweet Breads. 

Slew them in a little water, with butter, flour, and a 
little cream; season with salt, pepper, parsley and 
thyme. 

To Brown a Calf's Head with the Skin on. 

After scalding and washing the head clean, take out 
the eyes, cut off the ears, and let it boil half an hour; 
wdien cold, cleave the upper from the lower jaw, take 
out the tongue, strike off the nose, score the part which 
has the skin on, rub it over with beaten egg, sprinkle 
it over with salt, parsley, cayenne and black pepper; 
lay pieces of butter over it, and put it in a dutch-oven 
to brow^n, basting it often; cut down the lower part 
in slices, skin the tongue and palate, and cut them up ; 
put them in a pot wath a little water; when done, 
thicken it with brown flour and butter, season it with 
pepper, salt, some pickled oysters, w^ine or brandy (if 
you like it,) and let it stew fifteen minutes. Lay the 
baked head in a dish and put the hash around it, and 
lay force meat balls or brain cakes round the edge of 
the dish. 
3 



22 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

Bacon Fraise. 

Cut streaked bacon in small thin slices, make a bat- 
ter of a pint of milk, two eggs, and two large spoons- 
ful of flour; some salt and pepper; put some lard oi 
dripping in a frying-pan, and when it is hot pour in 
half of the batter, and strew the bacon over it; then 
pour on the remainder of the batter; let it fry gently, 
and be careful in turning, that the bacon does not 
come to the pan. 

Irish Stev7. 

Take five thick mutton chops, or two pounds of the 
neck or loin, two pounds of potatoes, peel them and 
cut them in halves, six onions or half a pound of 
onions, peel and slice them also. First put a layer of 
potatoes at the bottom of your stew-pan, tJien a couple 
of chops and some onions, then again potatoes, and 
so on tdl the pan is quite full ; season with pepper and 
salt, and three gills of broth or gravy, and two tea- 
spoonsful of mushroom catsup ; cover it very close to 
prevent the escape of steam, and stew on a slow fire 
for an hour and a half; a slice of ham is an addition 
Great care should be taken not to let it brown. 

To Brown Flour for Gravy, &c. 

Put some Hour in a dutch-oven and set it over some 
hot coals; keep stirring it until it is of a light-brown 
color; in this way several pounds can be done at 
once, and kept in a jar covered ; and is very convenient 
to thicken brown soups and gravies with. 

Drawn Butter. 
Put half a pint of water in a skillet, rub a quarter of 
a pound of butter in a large spoonful of Hour; when 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 23 

the water boils, stir it in and let it boil a few minutes; 
season it with parsley, chopped line. 

Stuffing or Dressing. 

Stuffing for poultry is made of bread and butter, an 
egg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley or thyme, mixed 
together; if the bread is dry, it should have a little 
boiling water poured on it. 

Egg Sauce. 

This is made as drawn butter, with one or two eggs 
boiled hard and chopped into it, and a little salt. 

Celery Sauce. 

Take a large bunch of celery, cut it fine, and boil 
it till soft, in a pint of water ; thicken it with butter 
and flour, and season it with salt, pepper, and mace. 

Bacon Dumplings. 

Cut slices of cooked bacon, and pepper them ; roll 
out crust as for apple dumplings ; slice some potatoes 
very thin, and put them' in the crust with the meat; 
close them up, and let them boil fast an hour; when 
done, take them out carefully with a ladle. 

Drop Danipimgs. 
These are good for almost any kind of soup, and 
may be made of a quart of flour, two eggs, a spoonful 
of butter, some salt and pepper, wet with milk and 
water; drop them in while it is boiling, and let them 
boil ten or fifteen minutes. 

Vermicelli. 
Beat three fresh eggs very light, make them into i 
stiff paste, with flour and water; knead it well, and roll 



24 MEATS AND POULTRV. 

it very thin, cut it in narrow strips, give them a t-wist, 
and dry them quickly, on tin sheets or dishes, in the 
sun or a moderate oven; soak them a few minutes in 
cold water, and put them in chicken soup. They are 
very good and convenient. 

Hash made of Fowls. 

Take the bones and pieces that have been left of 
roast or boiled fowls, cither turkeys or chickens, crack 
the bones, cut oflf the meat, and chop it fine ; put it in a 
small iron pot, or stew pan, cover it with water; put in 
the gravy that may be left from the fowls ; season with 
pepper and salt, put in some chopped celery, crumbs 
of bread, a lump of butter, and if it requires it, dust in 
a little Hour ; if you like it you may slice in an onion. 

Beef Steak Pudding. 

Take two pounds of beef from the round or surloin, 
and after taking out tlie bone, season it according to 
fancy ; some prefer a seasoning of pejiper, salt, onions, 
thyme, marjoram or sage ; others the pepper and salt 
alone. Then prepare a plain stiff crust, either with 
or without butter or lard ; spread the crust over a deep 
dish or bowl, put in the beef, and if you like it, add 
some butter; cover it close wiih a crust which must 
be closely turned in to prevent the water from pene- 
trating; tie it up tight in a cloth, put it in a pot of 
boiling water and let it boil quickly for an hour. The 
'Joth should be dipped in hot water, and floured, as 
.'or other boiled puddings. 

Beef Steak Pie. 

Take some fine beef steaks, beat them well with a 
rolling-pin, and season thcni with pepper and salt. 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 25 

according to taste. Make a good crust ; lay some in a 
deep dish or tin pan ; lay in the beef, and fill the dish 
half full of water ; put in a table-spoonful of butter 
and some chopped thyme and parsley, and cover the 
top with crust; bake it from one to two hours, ac- 
cording to the size of the pie, and eat it while hot. 

Baked Beef Pudding. 

Par-boil some tender pieces of beef, in water enough 
to barely cover it ; grease a pan with lard, season the 
beef and lay it in ; make a batter of eggs, milk and 
flour, with a little salt, and pour it over ; bake it an 
hour in a stove or dutch-oven, and when done keep it 
hot till it is eaten. Save the water the beef was 
boiled in, add a little butter, flour, pepper, salt and 
chopped parsley, thyme or sweet marjoram, and boil 
it up ; when you dish up the pudding pour this over, 
or put it in a gravy dish to be served hot at the table. 

Pork Stew Pie. 

Take small bones and pieces of pork that will not 
do for sausage ; roll out some crust with but little 
shortening ; lay in the meat and small pieces of crust 
alternately ; sprinkle in flour and seasoning, cover it 
with water, and put on a crust. 

Spiced Beef in the Irish Style. 

To a round weighing from twenty to twenty-five 
pounds, take a pint of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, 
two ounces of pepper, two ounces of cloves, one 
ounce of allspice, four ounces of brown sugar, all well 
pulverized, and mixed together ; rub the round well 
with it, and lay it in a small tub or vessel by itself. 
Turn and rub it once a day for ten days. It will 
3* 



26 MEATS AND POULTHY. 

not injure if it remain a week longer in the spices, 
if it should not be convenient to bake it. Wlien you 
wish to have it cooked, strew over the top of the 
round a small handful of suet. Be particular to bind 
it tight round with a cord, or narrow strip of muslin, 
which must be wrapped several limes round to keep it 
in shape ; put it in a dutch-oven, and add three pints 
of water when it is first put down ; keep water boiling 
in the tea-kettle, and add a little as it seems necessary, 
observing not to add too much. It will require a slow 
heat, and take four hours to bake. 

This is a very fine standing dish, and will be good 
for three weeks after cooking. Keep the gravythat is 
left to pour over it to keep it moist. 

To Bake Fowls. 

Season and stuff them the same as for roasting; put 
them in a dutch-oven or stove, with a pint of water ; 
when they are half done, put in the giblets; when 
these are done, chop them with a knife, and put in 
thickening and a lump of butter. 

If chickens are young, split them down the back, 
and put them in a dutch-oven, with a plate in the 
bottom, and a pint of water; when they are done, stir 
in a spoonful of flour, mixed in half a pint of milk, a 
piece of butter, salt, pepper and parsley; let it boil up 
and dish them. 

To Fry Chickens. 

After cutting up the chickens, wash and drain them; 
season them with salt and pepper; rub each piece in 
flour, and drop them separately in a frying-pan or 
ilutch-oven of hot lard; when brown, turn the other 
side to fry; make a thickening of rich milk, flour, ;i 



MEATS AND POULTRY. 27 

yece of butter, salt, and chopped parsley; take up 
the chicken on a dish ; pour a little water in the pan 
to keep the gravy from being too thick; put in the 
thickening, stir it, and let it boil a few minutes ; then 
pour it over the chicken. 

Chickens Fried in Batter. 

Make a batter of two eggs, a tea-cup of milk, a 
little salt, and thickened wdth flour; have the chickens 
cut up, washed and seasoned; dip the pieces in the 
batter separately, and fry them in hot lard; when 
brown on both sides, take them up on a dish, and 
make a gravy as for fried chickens. 

Lard fries much nicer than butter, which is apt to 
burn. 

Chickens in Paste. 

Make a crust as for pies, and roll it out in cakes, 
large enough to cover a chicken. The chickens 
should be very nicely picked and washed, and the 
inside wiped dry ; put in each a small lump of butter, 
a little salt, pepper, and parsley ; have the pot boiling, 
close the chickens in the dough, pin them up in sepa- 
rate cloths, and boil them three-quarters of an hour; 
dish them, and pour drawn butter over. Pigeons can 
be cooked in the same manner. 

To Fricassee Chickens. 

Cut up the chickens, and put them in a pot with 
just water enough to cover them; let it boil half an 
hour; have ready some thickening made of milk, flour, 
and butter, seasoned with parsley, thyme, pepper, and 
salt; let it boil a few minutes longer, and when it is 
dished, grate a little nutmeg over, if you like it. This 
is one of the easiest, cheapest and best ways of cook- 
ing chickens. 



28 MEATS AND POULTRY. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut up the chickens, and if they are old, boil them 
fifteen minutes in a little water, which save to put in 
the pie ; make a paste like common pie crust, and put 
it round your pan, or dish; lay in the chicken, dust 
ilour over, and put in butter, pepper, and salt; cover 
tiicm with water, roll out the top crust quite thick, and 
close the pie round the edge; make an opening in the 
middle with a knife; let it bake rather more than an 
hour. If you warm a pie over for the next day, pour 
oflf the gravy and warm it separately, and add it to 
the pie. 

Pot Pie. 

Cut up two large chickens ; grease your pot, or 
dutch-oven, with lard; roll out crust enough in two 
parts, to go round it, but not to cover the bottom, or 
it will burn before the pie is done. As you put in 
the pieces of chicken, strew in flour, salt, and pepper, 
some pieces of the crust rolled thin, and a few pota- 
toes ; cover this with water, and put on a covering of 
paste, with a slit cut in the middle; let it cook slowly 
lor about two hours ; have hot water in a tea kettle, 
and if it should dry up too much, pour some in; just 
before you dish it, add a little parsley and thyme. 

Veal, lamb and pork pies, may be made in the same 
way. If you like more top crust, cook it in a dutch- 
oven; and when the first crust is done, take it oflf in a 
pan and set it near the fire, and cover the pie again 
with dough. 

Giblet Pie and Soup. 

If you can get livers and gizzards from market, you 
can have a very nice ^ie made, the same as chicken 
pie, or soup with dumplings made of milk, egg and 



MEATS AND POULTRY. ' 29 

flour, beaten together, and dropped in when the soup 
is nearly done, and season it with parsley, pepper, and 
salt. 

Chicken Stewed with New Corn. 
Cut up the chickens as for pies; season them well; 
have green corn cut off the cob ; put a layer of 
chicken in the bottom of a stew pan, and a layer of 
corn, and so* till you fill all in ; sprinkle in salt, pep- 
per and parsley, and put a piece of butter in; cover 
it with water, and put on a crust, with slits cut in it; 
let it boil an hour; when done, lay the crust in a deep 
dish; dip out the chicken and corn, and put it on the 
crust; stir in the gravy a thickening of milk and flour; 
when this boils up, pour it in with the corn and chicken. 
Chicken and corn boiled together in a pot, make very 
nice soup, with dumplings. 

To Broil Chickens. 

Split the chickens down the back; season them, 
and put them on the gridiron over clear coals; cover 
them over with a plate, (which will make them cook 
faster;) baste with melted butter: be careful not to 
let them burn. Make gravy of the giblets, boiled in 
water and chopped fine ; put in butter, thicken and 
season it; pour this in a dish, and put the chickens 
on the top. 

Chicken Pudding. 

Make a batter of six eggs, milk, flour and a little 
salt; par-boil the chickens; have each joint cut, grease 
a pan with lard, and lay the pieces in; put in some 
lumps of butter, and season it well with pepper and 
salt; then pour the batter over, and bake it an hour, 
in a stove or dutch-oven. Veal or beef makes a very 
,nice pudding, done in the same way; but the batter 
3* 



30 MEATS AND POULTRY 

need not be as rich as for chicken, and it requires no 
butter. Or it makes a good dish, if you cut slices of 
ham, after it will not do to appear on the table; make 
a batter, as for other pudding; put in a little butter 
and pepper, and bake it in a pan. 

Cold Chicken with Vinegar. 

Cut up the chicken in small pieces, ^nd crack the 
bones; season it with salt and pepper, and put it in 
a deep baking plate, with a lump of butter and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar; cover it with hot water, put a 
plate over, and let it stew on a stove or hot embers. 

Chicken Salad. 

Cut up the while parts of a cold chicken, season it 
with oil, or drawn butter, mustard, pepper, salt, and 
celery, chopped very fine, and a little vinegar. Tur- 
key salad is made in the same manner as above. 

Stewed Chickens w^ith Rice. 

The rice must lirst be soaked in water, and very 
nicely washed, or it will not be white; two tea-cups- 
ful of rice are sufficient to serve with one chicken, 
and must be boiled in a quart of water, which should 
be boiling when you put the rice in; add a dessert- 
spoonful of salt; generally half an hour is long enough 
to boil rice, and it must not be too long in the water 
after it is done, or it is less wholesome. Drain the 
water off, if the rice has not absorbed it, and place 
it in the bottom of the dish; the chicken must be in 
preparation at the same time with the rice, and should 
be cut up at the joints, as for fried or fricasseed 
chicken, and salted and seasoned; boil it in a little 
more water than sufficient to cover it; and when it isj 



SOUPS. 31 

done, take it oat, and lay it over the rice on the dish; 
then rub a small piece of butter with sufficient flour 
to thicken it, and stir both together in the liquor, 
which must remain over the fire for about two minutes ; 
and just before it is taken up, add the yelk of an 
egg well beaten, and some chopped parsley ; it must 
then be immediately poured over the chicken. In 
preparing this dish, take care that it does not get, 
smoked. 



SOUPS. 



In making soup, allow yourself plenty of time. 

Dumplings should be put in about half an hour before 

the soup is done, and herbs a quarter of an hour: — 

vegetables, about an hour, — rice, twenty minutes. If 

herbs are put in too soon, the flavor will fly off and 

be lost. 

Chicken Soup. 

Cut up the chicken; cut each joint, and let it boil 

an hour ; make dumplings of a pint of milk, an egg, 

a little salt and flour, stirred in till quite stiff"; drop this 

in, a spoonful at a time, while it is boiling; stir in a 

little thickening, with enough pepper, salt and parsley, 

to season the whole; let it boil a few minutes longer, 

and take it up in a tureen. Chopped celery is a great 

improvement to chicken soup ; and new corn, cut off" 

the cob, and put in when it is half done, gives it a 

very nice flavor. 

Brown Calf's Head Soup. 

Scald and clean the head, and put it to boil with 
two gallons of water, a shank of veal, three onions. 



32 SOUPS. 

two carrots, a little bacon, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. When they have boiled half an hour, take out 
the head and shank of veal, and cut all the meat off 
the bones into pieces of two inches square; let the 
soup boil half an hour longer, when strain it, and put 
in the meat; season it with salt, cayenne and black 
pepper, and cloves, if you like; thicken it with butter 
and browned flour, and let it boil nearly an hour; put 
some fried force raefit balls in the tureen; and just 
before you pour out the soup, stir into it a table- 
spoonful of sugar, browned in a frying-pan, and half 
a pint of wine. This resembles turtle soup. 

Beef Shin Soup, Mutton Soup, &c. 

Crack the shin in several pieces, and wash it 
through three waters; put it in a pot of water four 
hours before dinner; when it begins to boil, take off" 
the scum as it rises, and keep it covered; an hour 
before it is done, skim off all the fat, and put in pota- 
toes, onions, turnips, carrots, and cut cabbage, if you 
like it; either beat up dumplings with eggs and milk, 
or roll them out of dough made as pie crust; a few 
minutes before it is done, stir in thickening with pars- 
ley, thyme, pepper and salt, and tomatoes, if they are 
in season; then dish it for dinner. 

A shin will make a good dinner for a large family, 
and will do to warm up, if any is left. To eat pickles 
with it, or pour a little vinegar in your plate, is an 
improvement. 

Soup made of mutton, veal and lamb, does not re- 
quire many vegetables ; carrots and potatoes are the 
most suitable. A shank of veal or mutton w^ill make 
a small pot of very good soup. Celery, cut fine, is 
very nice seasoning. 



SOUPS. 33 

Gumbo Soup. 

Take two pounds fresh beef; put this in a dinner- 
pot, with two gallons of water; after boiling two 
hours, throw in a quarter of a peck of ocra, cut into 
small slices, and about a quart of ripe tomatoes, peeled 
and cut up ; slice four or five large onions ; fry them 
brown, and dust in while they are frying from your 
dredge-box, several spoonsful of flour; add these, 
with pepper, salt and parsley, or other herbs, to your 
taste, about an hour before the soup is finished; it 
will require six hours moderate bailing. 

ANOTHER W'AY. 

Cut up a large fat chicken ; boil it in two gallons 
of water, adding at the time you put in the chicken 
the same quantity of ocra, two large onions cut fine; 
season with pepper, salt, thyme and parsley; and when 
nearly done, drop in dumplings made of one egg, half 
a pint of rich milk, and flour suflfigient to make them 
so that they will drop from a spoon. This soup re- 
quires from four to five hours moderate boiling. Just 
before serving, take up the chicken, and after taking 
out all the bones, return the chicken into the soup, 
and dish it up. 

Pea Soup. 

Leave a pint of peas in the pot, with the water they 
were boiled in; make a thickening of flour, milk and 
butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, parsley and thyme; 
toast two or three slices of bread; cut it up in the 
tureen ; and when the soup has boiled about ten 
minutes, pour it over. 

Children are mostly fond of pea soup, and it seldom 
disagrees with them. A few slices of fat ham will 
supply the place of butter. 
4 



34 FISH, OYSTERS, ETC, 

Soup of Dried White Beans, &c. 
Dried beans or peas should be soaked before boil- 
ing ; tliey make very good soup with a small piece of 
bacon or salt pork boiled Nvith them ; put them to boil 
in plenty of water, and after they have boiled an 
hour, pour it off, and put in cold water — and the meat 
or bones, and let them boil an liour longer; stir in a 
little thickening, with pepper, salt, parsley and thyme ; 
mix up some dumplings, and drop in half an hour be- 
fore the soup is done. AVliere you have a large 
fomily, you should always be provided with dried 
beans for winter use. 

A Vegetable Soup. 
Take an onion, a turni]), two pared potatoes, a car- 
rot, a head of celery; boil tluin in three pints of water 
till the vegetables are cooked; add a little salt; have a 
slice of bread toasted and buttered, put it into a bowl, 
and pour the soup over it. Tomatoes when in season 
form an agreeable addition. 



FISH, OYSTERS, &c. 



To Bake a Rock Fish. 

Rub the fish with salt, black pepper, and a dust of 
cayenne, inside and out ; prepare a stuffing of bread 
and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, parsley and 
thyme ; mix an egg in it, fdl the fish with this, and sew 
it up or tie a string round it; put it in a deep pan, or 
oval oven and bake it as you would a fowl. To a 
^arge fish add half a pint of water; you can add more 
for the gravy if necessary; dust flour over and baste 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 35 

it with butter. Any other fresh fish can be baked in 
the same way. A large one will bake slowly in an 
hour and a half, small ones in half an hour. 

To Stew a Rock Fish. 

Rub the fish with salt and pepper, and a little cayenne 
on the inside; put it in an oval stew-pan. To a fish 
that weighs six pounds, put a pint of water; when it 
is about half done, season it well with salt and pep- 
per, and a httle mace or cloves; rub a quarter of a 
pound of butter in a half a tea-cup of flour, with a 
little parsley and thyme ; stir this in with a pint of 
oysters. Serve it with the gravy in the dish. A 
large fish should be allowed an hour, small ones half 
an hour. 

To Broil Shad. 

Soak a salt shad a day or night previous to cooking; 
it is best to drain an hour before you put it to the fire ; 
if it hangs long exposed to the air, it loses its flavor: 
grease the gridiron to keep it from sticking; have good 
coals, and put the inside down first. Fresh shad is 
better to be sprinkled with salt, an hour before it is 
put to broil; put a plate over the top to keep the heat 
in. In broiling shad or other fresh fish you should 
dust them with corn meal before you put them down. 

To Bake a Fresh Shad. 

Make a stuffing of bread, butter, salt, pepper and 
parsley ; fill a large shad with this, and bake it in a 
stove or oven. 

To Fry Fresh Fish. 
Have the fish well scalded, washed and drained; cut 
slits in the sides of each ; season them with salt and 



36 FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 

pepper, and roll them in corn flour ; have in your fry 
ing-pan hot lard or bacon drippings ; if the fish have 
been kept several days, dip them in ef^g before rolling 
them in corn flour, to keep them from breaking ; fry 
them light brown on both sides. 

To Fry Clams. 

After opening them as oysters, wash them in their 
own liquor antl drain then ; make a batter of an egg, 
flour and pepper ; dij) thorn in this, and fry them in 
butter. 

To Stew Clams. 

Strain the liquor and stew them in it for about 
twenty minutes ; make a thickening of flour, water and 
pepper; stir this in and lef it boil up; have some 
bread toasted and buttered in a deep dish, and pour 
the clams over. 

Clam soup may be made by putting an equal quan- 
tity of water with the liquor, and putting in toasted 
bread, crackers or dumplings. 

To Pot Fresh Herring. 

Scale and ,wash them well ; cut ofl' the heads and 
fins, and season them with salt, pepper and cloves ; 
pack them neatly in a large jar, and pour on enough 
cold vinegar to cover them ; put a plate over the top 
of the jar, and set it in a moderately warm oven, or 
on the top of a stove, in a pan of hot water, for five 
or six hours ; they will keep in a cool place several 
weeks, and are an excellent relish. The jar or pan 
should be of stone ware, or fire-proof yellow ware. 

To Boil Salt Cod. 

Put your fish to soak over night ; change the water 
in the morning, and let it stay till you put it on, which 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 37 

should be two hours before dinner ; keep it at scald- 
ing heat all the time, but do not let it boil, or it will 
get hard; eat it with egg sauce or drawn butter. If 
you have any cod fish left from dinner, mix it with 
mashed potatoes, and enough flour to stick them to- 
gether; season with pepper; make it into little cakes, 
and fry them in ham drippings. 

To Boil Salt Shad, Mackerel or Herring. 

Wash the fish from the pickle; put it in a frying-pan; 
cover it with water, and let it boil fifteen minutes; 
take it up and drain it between two plates ; put a little 
butter over and send it hot to the table: or, after 
boiling, you can flour, and fry it in drippings of any 
kind. 

To Boil Salt Salmon. 

Let salmon soak over night, and boil it slowly for 
two hours; eat it w'ith drawn butter. To pickle sal- 
mon after it has been boiled, heat vinegar scalding 
hot, with whole peppers and cloves; cut the fish in 
small square pieces; put it in a jar, and pour the 
vinegar over. Shad may be done in the same way. 

To Boil Fresh Fish. 

After being well cleaned, rub the fish with salt, and 
pin it in a towel; put it in a pot of boiling water, and 
keep it boiling fast; — a large fish will take from half 
to three-quarters of an hour — a small one, from fifteen 
to twenty minutes. A fat shad is very nice boiled, 
although rock and bass are preferred generally ; when 
done, take it up on a fish dish, and cover it with egg 
sauce or drawn butter and parsley. Pickled mush- 
rooms and walnuts, and mushroom catsup, are good 
with boiled fish. 
4* 



38 FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 

To Ste-wr Terrapins. 

Wash four terrapins in warm water ; then throw 
them in a pot of boilinc^ water, which will kill them 
instantly; let them boil till the shells crack; then take 
tliem out, and take off the bottom shell; cut each 
quarter separate; take the gall from the liver; take 
out the eggs; put the pieces in a stew-pan, pour in 
all the liquor, and cover them with water; put in salt, 
cayenne, and black pepper, and a little mace; put in a 
lump of butter the size of an c^i;^, and let them stew 
for half an hour; make a thickening of flour and 
water, which stir in a few minutes before you take it 
up, with two glasses of wine; serve it in a deep cov- 
ered dish; put in the fc^^ii:,^ just as you dish it. 

Oyster Soup. 

Strain the liquor from the oysters, and put it on to 
boil, with an equal quantity of water; take off the 
scum as it rises ; put in pepper, salt, parsley, thyme 
and butter; stir in a thickening of flour and water ; 
throw in the oysters, and let them scald. If you 
have cream, put in half a pint just before you take 
them up. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Strain the liquor from a gallon of oysters, and add to 
it an equal quantity of water; put it on the fire, and 
boil and skim it before you add the seasoning; then put 
in six large blades of mace, a little cayenne, and black 
or white pepper ; (the latter, on account of the color, 
is preferable, as it is desirable to have the soup as 
white as possible;) afterwards, permit all to boil to- 
gether about five minutes; then pour in the oysters 
and a quarter of a pound of butter, into which a 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 39 

dessert-spoonful of wheat flour has been rubbed fine; 
keep this at boihng heat until the oysters begin to 
look plump — when it is ready for the table, and must 
be served up very hot. If you can procure a pint of 
good cream, half the amount of butter will answer; — 
if you believe the cream to be rather old, even if it 
seems to be sweet, add before it goes into the soup, 
half a small teaspoonful of soda, well mixed with it; 
after you put in the cream, permit it to remain on the 
fire long enough to arrive at boiling heat again, when 
it must be taken up, or it may curdle; throw into 
the tureen a little finely cut parsley. 

Scolloped Oysters, 

Toast several slices of bread quite brown, and but- 
ter them on both sides; take a baking dish, and put 
the toast around the sides, instead of a crust. 

Pour your oysters into the dish, and season, to your 
taste, with butter, pepper and salt, adding mace or 
cloves. 

Crumb bread on the top of the oysters, and bake it 
with a quick heat about fifteen minutes. 

To Fry Oysters. 

Pick out the largest oysters and drain them ; sprinkle 
them with pepper and salt ; beat up an egg, and dip 
them first in it, and then in pounded crackers, and 
firy them in butter. It is a plainer way to dip them in 
corn meal. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Make a thick batter with two eggs, some crumbs 
of bread and flour, and a little milk; season this well 
with pepper and salt; have in a frying-pan equal parts 
of lard and butter; drop in a spoonful of the batter 



40 FISH, OYSTERS, ETC. 

and put into it one large oyster, or two small ones, 
let them brown slowly, so as not to burn ; turn them 
carefully. This is a good way to have oysters at 
breakfast. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Open them and throw them in a stew-pan, with a 
lump of butter; make a thickening of flour and water, 
salt and pepper, and stir it in just as the oysters boil: 
when they arc done, take them up in a deep covered 
dish, with buttered toast in the bottom. 

A Rich Oyster Pie. 

Strain ofT the liquor from the oysters, and put it on 
to boil, with some butter, mace, nutmeg, pepper and 
salt; just as it boils, stir in a thickening of milk and 
flour; put in the, oysters, and stir them till they are 
sufficiently stewed; then take them off, and put in the 
yelks of two eggs, well beaten ; do not put this in 
while it is boiling, or it will curdle. Line a dish, not 
very deep, with puff paste; fill it with white paper, or 
a clean napkin, to keep the top paste from fidling in; 
put on a lid of paste, and bake it. When done, take 
off the lid carefully; take out the paper or napkin, 
and pour in the oysters. Send it hot to table. 

A Baltimore Oyster Pie, 

Make a crust after the directions given for puff 
paste; grease the bottom of a deep dish, cover it with 
paste; then season two quarts of raw oysters, (with- 
out the liquor,) with spices to your taste, (some pre- 
ferring nutmeg, mace, cayenne pepper, — others, black 
pepper alone,) add butter and a heaped tea-cup of 
grated bread; put all together in the dish; then cover 
it with your paste, cut in strips, and crossed, or orna- 



FISH, OYSTERS, ETC, 41 

merited as your fancy dictates; a pound of butter to 
two quarts of oysters makes a rich pie; if the oysters 
are fine, less butter will answer. 

A pie of this size will bake in three-quarters of an 
hour, if the oven is in good order ; if the heat is not 
quick allow it an hour. 

Jf in baking-, the crust is likely to become too brown, 
put a piece of paper doubled over it, and the light 
color will be retained; when taken from the oven, if it 
should look dry, pour some of the liquor that was 
drained from the oysters in the dish, having previously 
strained and boiled it. 

As paste always looks more beautiful when just from 
the oven, arrange your dinner so that the pie may be 
placed on the table immediately it is done. 

Plain Oyster Pie. 

Take from the shell as many oysters as you want to 
put in the pie; strain the liquor, put it with them over 
the fire and give them one boil ; take off the scum, put 
in, if you wish to make a small pie, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, as much flour mixed in water as will 
thicken it when boiled, and mace, pepper, and salt to 
your taste; lay a paste in a deep dish, put in the oysters 
and cover them with paste ; cut a hole in the middle, 
ornament it any way you please, and bake it. A 
shallow pie will bake in three-quarters of an hour. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Plump the oysters for a few minutes over the fire; 
take them out and stir into the liquor some flour and 
butter mixed together, with a little mace and whole 
pepper, and salt to your taste; when it has boiled long 
enough, throw in the oysters, and add a glass of white 



42 FISH. OYSTERS, ETC. 

wine, just as you take it up. This is a suitable sauce 
for boiled fowls. 

To Pickle 100 Oysters. 

Drain off tiie liquor from the oysters, wash them 
and put to them a table-spoonful of salt, and a tea-cup 
of vinejrar : let them simmer over tlie fire about ten 
minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; then take out 
the oysters, and put to their own liquor a table-spoon- 
ful of whole black pepper, and a tea-spoonful of 
mace and cloves ; let it boil five minutes, skim, and 
pour it over the oysters in a jar. 

Oysters Pickled another way. 
Wash and drain the oysters, and put them in salt 
and water, that will bear an egg; let them scald till 
plump, and put them in a glass jar, with some cloves 
and whole pep2)ers, and when cold cover them with 
vinegar. 

To Brov/n Oysters in their ovm. Juice. 

Take a quail oi' large oysters, wash them in tiieir 
own juice, drain and dip them in the yelk of eggs ; 
heat butter in a frying-pan, and after seasoning them 
with pepper and salt, put them in separately ; when 
they are brown on both sides, draw them to one side 
of the pan ; strain the liquor, and put it in with a 
piece of butter and flour enough to thicken it. 

A Dish of Poached Eggs. 

Have ready a kettle of boiling water, pour it in a 

pan or speeder, which is set on coals ; have the eggs 

at hand; put a little salt in the water, and break them 

in, one at a time, till you get all in ; let them remain 



riSH, OYSTERS, ETC. 43 

till the while is set, and take them out with an egg- 
spoon, and put on a dish that has buttered toast on it. 

Fried Eggs. 
Slice and fry any kind of bacon, dish it ; have the 
eggs ready in a dish, and pour them into the gravy ; 
when done, take them up and lay them on the meat. 

Fried Eggs another way. 
Have your lard or butter boiling hot ; break in one 
egg at a time ; throw the hot fat over them with an 
egg slice, until white on the top ; slip the slice undei 
and take them out whole, and lay them on the dish or 
meat without breaking ; season with salt. 

Omelet. 

Beat six or eight eggs, with some chopped parsley 
and a little salt ; have the pan or speeder nicely 
washed ; put in a quarter of a pound of butter, when 
it is hot, pour in the eggs ; stir it with a spoon till it 
begins to form; when it is of a light-brown on the 
under side it is done ; turn it out on a plate, and send 
to table immediately. Grated bread, soaked in cream, 
put in the omelet, some think an improvement. The 
dripping of a nice ham, some persons use for omelet 
instead of butter. 

To Boil Eggs. 
Have the water boiling, and look at your watch as 
you put them in; two minutes and a half will cook 
them to please most persons; if you want them very 
soft, two minutes will be sufficient, or if less soft three 
minutes. If you wish them hard, as for lettuce, let 
them boil ten minutes. Spoons that have been used 
in eating eggs should be put in water immediately, as 
the egg tarnishes them. 



44 VEGETABLES. 



VEGETABLES. 



To Boil Green Com. 

Pick out ears near the same size, and have the water 
boiling when you put them in ; half an hour is long 
t^nough for young corn ; tliat which is old and hard will 
lake an hour or more; if young corn is boiled too long, 
it becomes hard and indigestible. 

To Fricassee Corn. 

Cut green corn off the cob; put it in a pot, and just 
cover it with water; let it boil half an hour; mix a 
spoonful of flour with half a pint of rich milk, pepper, 
salt, parsley, thyme and a piece of butter; let it boil a 
few minutes, and take it up in a deep dish. Corn will 
do to cook in this way when too old to boil on the cob. 

To Keep Corn for Winter. 

When boiled, cut the corn off the cob, and spread it 
on dishes; set these in the oven to dry after the bread 
comes out. If you have no oven, it can be dried in a 
stove of moderate heat, or round a fire. When per- 
fectly dry, tie it up in muslin bags, and hang them in a 
dry place; when you use it, boil it till soft in water; 
mix Hour, milk, butter, pepper and salt together, and 
stir in. 

Corn Fritters. 

Cut the corn through llie grain, and with a knife 
scrape the pulp from the cob, or grate it with a coarse 
grater, and to about a quart of the pulp, add two eggs 
beaten, two table-spoonsful of flour, a little salt and 
pepper, and a small portion of thin cream, or new milk; 



VEGETABLES. 45 

beat the the whole together ; have the butter or lard hot 

in the pan, and put a large spoonful in at a time, and 

fry brown, turning each fritter separately; this makes 

an agreeable relish for breakfast, or a good side dish at 

dinner. 

Hominy. 

Large hominy, after it is washed, must be put to 
soak over night; if you wish to have it for dinner, put 
it to boil early in the morning, or it will not be done in 
time; eat it as a vegetable. 

Small hominy wall boil in an hour; it is very good 
at breakfast or supper to eat with milk or butter, or to 
fry for dinner. 

Both large and small hominy will keep good in a 
cool place several days. Be careful that the vessel it 
is cooked in, is perfectly clean, or it will darken the 
hominy. 

To Fry Hominy. 

Put a little lard in your frying-pan, and make it hot ; 
mash and salt the hominy ; put it in, and cover it 
over with a plate ; let it cook slowly for half an hour, 
or longer if you like it very brown ; when done, turn it 
out in a plate. If you do not like it fried, mash it 
well, w^ith a little water, salt, and butter, and warm it 
in a frying-pan. 

To Boil Potatoes. 

When the potatoes are old, pare them, put them in 
plenty of boiling water, and boil them till you can run 
a fork through easily; if you wish to have them whole, 
pour off all the water, throw in some salt, and let them 
stand a few minutes over coals, to let the steam go off; 
they will then be white and mealy. 

It is a mistaken notion to boil potatoes in but little 
5 



46 VEGETABLES. 

water, as they arc sure to turn dark and taste strong. 
In cold weatlicr they may be ko})t pared several days 
in a pan of water, by changing the water every day, 
anil will be whiter. If you like mashed potatoes, take 
tlicm up when barely done, sprinkle them with salt, 
and mash them; put in a spoonful of cream and a 
small lump of butter; keep them hot till they are taken 
to table. 

In the summer when potatoes are young, put them 
in a small tub, with a little water, and rub them with a 
j)iece of brick, to break the skin ; you can then peel 
enough lor dinner with a knife in a few minutes. 
When they are older, boil them witli the skins on, and 
sijueeze-them separately in a cloth to make them mealy. 
New potatoes are nice with cream and butter over 
them. 

In boiling old potatoes, some persons cut them round 
without ))aring, which allows the moisture to escape ; 
tliis is an improvement; you can then either peel them 
or send them to table without peeling. 

To SteTv Potatoes. 

Chop or slice colil potatoes; season with pepper and 
salt; stew them with a little butter and milk, and a dust 
of flour; when nearly done, stir in a yelk of egg, with 
some chopped parsley — they will cook in a few min- 
utes, and may be sliced over night if you wish an earl} 
breakfast. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

To boil sweet potatoes, put them in a pot with plenty 
of water; let them boil fast till you can run a fork 
through the largest; then pour off the water, and leave 
them in the pot a quarter of an hour; you can then 
peel the skin off or leave it on. Some prefer them 



VEGETABLES. 47 

baked in a dutch-oven; they shoukl have a quick heat* 
large potatoes will take an hour to bake. It has been 
found a good way to boil them, till nearly done; then 
peel and bake them — they are drier and nicer. 

To Fry Potatoes. 

Cold potatoes are very good fried for broaktast with 
scraps of bacon ; if they have been mashed, make 
them out in cakes with a little flour, and fry them 
brown, or slice them. 

Tomatoes. 

If you wish to bake tomatoes in the oven with bread, 
pour boiling water on, and skin them; cut them in 
small pieces; season with salt and pepper, and put them 
in a pan with crumbs of bread and butter; cover the 
pan with a plate, and bake three-quarters of an hour*, 
when done, mash them and take them out on a dish. 

To Fry Tomatoes. 

.Slice them, season with pepper and salt, and fry ic 
hot butter; if they are green, dip them in flour afte^ 
being seasoned. 

Tomato Omelet. 

Pour boiling water on the tomatoes, skin and cut 
them line; to one quart of this, put two chopped 
onions and a lump of butter the size of an eo-o-; let 
them boil half an hour, then mash them; put in graced 
bread, pepper, salt, and the yelks of two eggs. 

To Stew Tomatoes. 

Wash and pour boiling water over them ; peel off tUe 
skins, and cut them up; season (hem Avith pepper and 



48 VEGETABLES. 

salt; put in a lump of butter, and boil them in their 
own juice for luilf an hour; stir in enough crumbs 
of bread to thicken them; let them cook slowly ten 
minutes longer; be careful that the bread does not 
burn. 

To Bake Tomatoes. 

Take out the inside of large tomatoes, make a 
stuffing of bread, butter, pepper, salt and an egg; fill 
them with this, and set them in a deep pie-plate; let 
them bake slowly half an hour. 

Tomato Jelly, to eat with Roast Meat. 

Wash the tomatoes, and ])u1 them in a bell-metal 
kettle, with a little water; let them boil thirty minutes; 
take them out and strain them through a sieve, till you 
get all the jmlp; let it settle and pour off the top; put 
the tbick part in deep plates, and set them in the oven 
after the bread is drawn; season it with pepj)er and salt 
to your taste, and put it away in a jar It can eitlicr 
be eaten cold, or warmed up with crumbs of bread 
and butter. Some persons slice tomatoes, and dry 
them on dishes in an oven. 

To Fricassee Tomatoes. 

Wash and cut them in tAvo, if large; if small, leave 
them whole, but do not peel them or they go too much 
to pieces; have a broad speeder or stove-pan; put in 
a half spoonful of butter; season the tomatoes with 
pepper and salt, and flour them; cover them with a 
plate ; they will cook in ten minutes, stirring tliem 
once; pour in half a tea-cup of cream just as they are 
done; let them boil up and dish them while hot: 
this dish is much liked either for breakfast, dinner or 
tea. 



VEGETABLES. 49 

To Broil Tomatoes for Breakfast. 

Take large round tomatoes, wash and wipe them, 
and put them on the gridiron over lively coals — the 
stem side down ; when this is brown, turn them and let 
them cook till quite hot through ; place them on a hot 
dish and send them quickly to table, where each one 
may season for himself with pepper, salt and butter. 

To Bake Tomatoes for Breakfast. 

Season them with pepper and salt ; flour and bake 
them in a stove, in a deep plate with a little butter over 
them. 

Tomatoes sliced with Onions. 

Pick the best tomatoes ; let them stand a little while 
in cold water, then peel and slice them. To about six 
tomatoes, you may add two red onions, also sliced; 
season with pepper, plenty of salt, and a small portion 
of vinegar. 

To put up Tomatoes for Winter. 

Gather a quantity of tomatoes, wash, scald, skin 
and cut them up; season them highly with pepper 
and salt, and put them in a large stone jar; set this in 
the oven with your bread, and leave it till it is cold; 
stir them, and set them in the oven every time you 
bake for several weeks; when the juice is nearly dried 
up, put a piece of white paper over the jar, melt some 
lard and pour on it. When you use them, stew them 
with bread, butter and water. 

Baked Egg Plant. 

Boil them ten minutes; then cut them in half and 
take out the seeds; fill them with a stuffing of crumbs 
5* 



50 VEGETABLES. 

of bread, seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, the yelk 
of an egg, and if you choose, the juice of a tomato ; 
close them and tie each one with a string; put a little 
water in tlie dutch -oven, and lay them in with some 
of the stuiring on the top ; let them cook slowly half 
an hour, basting them with butter; take them out, 
tliickt-n the gravy, and pour it over them on the dish. 

To Fry Egg Plant. 

Cut them in slices half an inch thick; sprinkle them 
with salt, and let them stand a lew minutes to extract 
the bitter taste; wash thciu in cold water, and wipe 
them dry ; season with salt and pepper ; dip them in 
flour, and fry them in butter. 

Another way of cooking them is to cut them in thin 
slices, and bake them on a bake-iron that is hot enough 
to bake cakes. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant. 
Scrape the roots, and boil tliem till soft; mash them, 
and put in butter pepper, salt, and e^^ and flour 
enough to stick them together; make this in cakes as 
large as an oyster, and fry them in butter; or after boil- 
ing, you can cut them in slices and stew them in water; 
tlien butter and sea.son, and thicken with a little flour and 
cream. 

To Stew or Fry Mushiooms. 

Be careful in gathering mushrooms that you have 
the right kind ; they are pink underneath, and white 
on the top, and the skin will peel off" easily, but it 
sticks to the poisonous ones. 

After you have peeled them, sprinkle them with salt 
and pepper, and put them in a stew pan, with a little 
water, and a lump of butter ; let them boil fast ten 



VEGETABLES. 51 

minutes, and .stir in a thickening of flour and cream. 
They may be fried in butter, or broiled on a gridiron. 
They are sometimes very abundant in the fall, on 
ground that has not been ploughed for several years ; 
they appear after a warm rain ; they may be peeled, 
salted, and allowed to stand some hours before cooking. 

Cucumbers, to Fry or Slice. 

To fry cucumbers, take off the rinds in long pieces, 
a quarter of an inch thick; season them with pepper 
and salt; dip them in flour, and fry them in butter. 

Many persons think cucumbers unwholesome, and 
they certainly are if kept for several days before they 
are eaten; but if sliced thin, with onions, pepper- salt- 
and good vinegar, they may generally be eaten without 
danger. 

Lettuce, 

Persons that are fond of lettuce may have it nearly 
all the year, by sowing the different kinds, and keep- 
ing it covered through the winter ; the most approved 
way of dressing it is to cut it fine, and season with oil, 
mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and a hard egg chopped. 
The essence of ham is also very good to season lettuce. 

Where there is a large family, it is a good and eco- 
nomical way to cut the fat of ham in small pieces, fry 
it, and mak€ a gravy with flour, waiter and pepper, to 
eat with lettuce. To cook lettuce you must fry a little 
ham ; put a spoonful of vinegar into the gravy ; cut 
the lettuce, put it in the pan ; give it a stir, and then 
dish it. 

Cold Slaw. 

Cut hard white cabbage across the leaves, and put 
it in a deep plate, scald two large spoonsful of vinegar 
with a piece of butter, some pepper-and salt; pour this 



52 VEGETABLES. 

over the slaw ; have an egg boiled hard^ chop it fine, 
and spread it over the top. Some persons like it 
heated in a pan with vinegar and water, and the yelk 
of a raw egg mixed through it. 

Cauliflo^vers, &c. 

Have a pot with halt" milk, and the rest water; when 
this boils, put in the caulillowers, and let them boil till 
tender ; put in some salt just before you take them up; 
have ready drawn butter with parsley, to pour over 
tliem, or a sauce of cream and butter. Good heads 
of yellow Savoy cabbage, cooked in this way, re- 
semble cauliflowers. Brocoli is a delightful vegetable, 
and may be cooked in the same manner. 

To Boil Cabbage. 
In summer, you should allow a large head of cab- 
bage an hour to boil, but when it has been tendered 
by the frost, it will boil in half that time. Most 
persons prefer cabbage boiled witli ham ; the pot 
should be well skimmed before it goes in or the grease 
will penetrate the cabbage, and make it unwholesome; 
take it up bel'ore it boils to pieces. It is very good 
boiled with corned beef or pork, or with milk and 
water, with a little salt. added. Some like it with a 
little saUeratus thrown in while boiling, as that tenders 
it and makes it of a more hvely green. 

To Boil G-reens and Poke. 
After skimming the pot that the bacon has been 
boiled in, put in cabbage sprouts, and let them boil till 
the stalks are tender ; all greens are best boiled in a 
net. Spinach cooks in a few minutes ; some persons 
prefer it when boiled in salt and water ; you should 



VEGETABLES. 53 

have drawn butter or hard eggs to eat with it when 
done in this 'way. There are several kinds of wild 
greens to be lound in the country in the spring, as wild 
mustard, poke and lambs- quarter, which are very good 
cooked as cabbage sprouts. Pour boiling water on 
poke, after tying it in bunches, as asparagus, let it 
stand a few minutes ; pour off the water ; boil it wdth a 
little salt in the water, and if you choose a little sal- 
airatus; dress it v/ith butter, and dish it as asparagus. 

String Beans. 

String beans, if boiled in salt and water, will require 
fully two hours ; but if boiled in a net, in a pot with 
bacon, they will not take so long ; if they are cooked 
in the same pot with cabbage, it will injure the flavor. 
It IS a good way to boil a very small piece of pork or 
bacon, or a ham-bone in the pot with beans ; when 
they are done, season, them with cream, butter, salt 
and pepper. 

Lima Beans. 

Shell them, and wash them in cold water; let them 
boil about an hour ; when done, dip them from the 
water, and season with salt, pepper, cream or butter ; 
keep them hot till they are sent to table. 

Dried Lima beans should be soaked over night, and 
■>oiled two hours or longer, if they are not soft. 

Peas. 

Early peas require about half an hour to boil, and 
the later kinds rather longer; the water should boil 
when they are put in ; when they are tough and yellow, 
they may be made tender and green, by putting in a 
little pearl-ash, or ashes tied up in a rag, just before 
(hey are taken up; this will tender all green vegetables, 



54 VEGETABLES. 

but do not put too much; — when done, dip them out; 
drain and season them witli butter, pepper and salt; 
put a bunch of parsley in the middle of the dish. . 

To Keep Green Beans for "Winter. 

Boil salt and water to make a strong pickle; string 
the beans, and put them in a tight wooden firkin; 
sprinkle tliera with salt as they go in ; wlien the i)ickle 
is cold, pour it on, and put on a weight to keep the beans 
under; they will keep in the cellar till the next spring. 
They should soak several hours in cold water before 
they are boiled. 

Aspaiagus. 

All persons tliat have a garden should have an aspar- 
agus-bed ; it is valuable as being one of the first vege- 
tables in the spring. Put the stalks of the same lengtli 
in bunches together, and tie tliem with strings; boil it 
three-quarters of an hour in clear water; (if you put 
salt in, it turns it dark;) have buttered toast in the 
bottom of a deep dish; untie the strings, and put the 
asparagus in; sprinkle it over with pepper and salt, and 
])ut butter on. Asparagus is also agreeable in chicken 

soup. 

Cymliugs, or Squashes. 

In cultivating this vegetable, the small bunch cym- 

ling is the best, as it takes so little room in the garden, 

and comes soon to maturity; if they are so hard that 

a pin will not run in easily, they are unfit for use. 

Boil the cymlings till soft; cut them open, and take 

out the seeds; put them in a colander, and mash tliem; 

when the water is drained off, put them in a small pot, 

and stew them with cream and butter for ten minutes; 

just as you dish them, season with pepper and salt. If 

ooiled with salt meat, they require but little seasoning. 



VEGETABLES. 55 

Pumpkins. 

Young pumpkins resemble cymlings, when cooked in 
the same way. When they are ripe, they should be 
pared and cut up, and boiled till soft in a good deal of 
water ; take them up as soon as they are done, or they 
will soak up tne water ; mash them and season them 
with salt, pepper and butter. They are good to eat 
with roast or boiled beef. 

To Bake Pumpkins. 

The long striped pumpkin, with a thick long neck, 
called by some potato pumpkin, is the best for baking; 
cut it up in slices, leaving on the rind ; put it in a 
dutch-oven or dripping-pan, and let it bake an hour 
with a quick heat. Where sweet potatoes cannot be 
had, pumpkins make a very good substitute. If you 
put ripe pumpkins that have not been frosted, in a 
dry place, they will keep to make puddings till spring. 

To Dry Pumpkins. 

Pare them, and cut them in thin slices ; have a strong 
thread, and string them on it with a needle ; hang them 
out in the sun till dry, taking them in at night; tie 
them up in a muslin bag, and hang them in a dry 
place. Soak them before they are stewed, and they 
are nearly as good for puddings as when in season. 
Some dry them, as apples, by spreading on boards. 

Parsnips. 

Scrape and split them, and boil until quite soft, 
either in salt and water, or with meat ; they are very 
good served up in this way, with plenty of butter. 
They may, when boiled, either be baked with a few 
slices of salt meat, and require no seasoning but pepper, 



56 VEGETABLES. 

or made into small round cakes, seasoned with butter^ 
pepper and salt, and fried. 

Carrots. 
Carrots should be scraped, and boiled till soft, in 
plenty of water ; when they are done, take them up, 
and slice them thin ; season them with salt, pepper and 
butter. They are suitable to eat with boiled meat or 
fowls. 

Turnips. 

Pare and quarter tlic turnips, and put them in « 
pot of clear water, or with fresh meat; boil them half 
an hour ; drain, and season them with butter, pepper 
and salt ; mash tliem. 

Onious. 

At'ter they are peeled, boil them in milk and water; 
if small, tliey will cook in half an hour ; when they 
are done, pour olT the water ; put in cream, butter and 
salt, and let them stew a few mioutes. Small onions 
are much better for cookmg, as they are not so strong. 

Beets. 

Wash the beets ; cut the tops off, and put them in 
boiling water; the early turni]) beet is best for sum- 
mer, and will boil in less than an hour; the longwirter 
beet should be boiled two hours ; — when they are 
done, drop them in cold water for a minute ; peel and 
slice them ; season with butter, pepper and salt ; send 
them hot to table. 

To pickle beets, put them in a jar after they have 
been boiled ; fill it up with weak vinegar ; put in salt, 
cayenne and black pepper. 



BREAD, ETC. 57 

To Boil Rice. 

Pick a pint of rice, wash it clean — put it in three 
pints of boiling water: it should boil fast^ and by 
the time the water evaporates, the rice will be suffi- 
ciently cooked ; set it where it will keep hot, until 
you are ready to dish it. 

To Keep Vegetables in Winter. 

jBeets, parsnips, carrots and salsify should be dug 
up before the frost is severe ; those w^anted for use in 
the winter should be put in barrels, and covered with 
sand; what you do not want till spring should be 
buried in the garden, with sods on the top. Celery 
may be dug in November, and set in a large box 
covered with sand, in the cellar, with the roots do\\Ti; 
it will keep till the frost is out of the ground. Or it 
may be left in the ground all winter, and dug as you 
want it for use. 



BREAD, &c. 



As bread is the most important article of food, great 
care is necessary in making it, and much judgment, 
as the weather changes so often. 

In warm weather, the rising should be mixed with 
water nearly cold; if there should be a spell of damp 
weather in the summer, have it slightly warm And set 
it to rise on a table in the kitchen. 

In winter it should be mixed with w^arm water, Jind 
left on the warm hearth all night. If tlie yeast is 
fresh, a small quantity will do; if several weeks old, 
6 



58 BREAD, ETC. 

it will take more. It' you use dry yeast, let it soak 
fifteen minutes, and put in a tea-spoonful of salaratus 
to prevent it from ijettin;^ sour. 

Light Bread, Baking in a Stove, &c. 

For two loaves of bread, thicken a quart of watei 
with flour, till it will just pour easily; put in a table- 
spoonful of salt and half a tea-cup of yeast; this 
should be done in tJic evening. If tlie weather is 
cold, set it where it will be warm all night; but, if 
warm, it will rise on a table in the kitchen. (If it 
should not be light in tlie morning, and the water settles 
on the top, stir in a little more yeast, and set it in a 
pan of hot water for a few minutes;) knead in flour 
till it is nearly as stiff as pic crust, and let it rise again. 
Have your baking pans greased, and when it is light, 
mould out the bread, and put it in them ; set it by 
the fire, covered with a cloth, till it begins to crack 
on the top — when it is light enough to bake. To bake 
in a stove requires care to turn it frequently; if it 
browns too fast at first, leave the door open a little 
while; a tliick loaf will bake in an hour, and a small 
one in less time. In trying the heat of a stove, drop a 
few drops of water on the top, if it boils gently it is in 
good order, and the heat should be ke])t at this point. 

To Bake a Dutch-oven Loaf. 

If you wish to make a large loaf, it will take three 
pints of water, more than half a tea-cup of yeast, and 
two spoonsful of salt; when the rising is fight, knead it 
up, have the dutch-oven greased ; put it in, and set it 
near the fire, but not so near that it will scald. When 
it rises so as to crack on the top, set the oven on coals; 
have the lid hot, cut the loaf slightly across the top, 



BREAD, ETC. 59 

dividing it in four; stick it with a fork and put the lid 
on; when it is on a few minutes, see that it does not 
bake too fast; it should have but little heat at the bot- 
tom, and the coals on the top should be renewed fre- 
quently; turn the oven round occasionally. 

If baked slowly, it will take an hour and a half; 
when done, wrap it in a large cloth till it gets cold. 

To Bake in a Brick Oven. 

If you have a large family, or board the laborers of 

a farm, it is necessary to have a brick oven, so as to 

.bake but twice a week; and to persons that understand 

the management of them, it is much the easiest way. 

If you arrange every thing with judgment, half a 
dozen loaves of bread, as many pies or puddings, rusk, 
rolls or biscuit may be baked at the same time. Some 
persons knead up their bread over night in winter; to 
do this, the sponge should be made up at four o'clock 
in the afternoon. If you wish to put corn flour in your 
bread, scald one quart of it to six loaves, and work it 
in the flour that you are going to stir in the rising; to 
make six loaves of bread, you should have three quarts 
of water and a tea-cup of yeast. 

Scalded corn flour, or boiled mashed potatoes, assists 
bread to rise very much in cold weather. Have a quart 
of potatoes well boiled and rolled fine with a rolling-pin 
on your cake board ; mix them well in the rising after 
it is light; if tli^ oven is not ready, move the bread to 
a cool place. If the bread is sour before you mould it 
out, mix a heaped tea-spoonful of sala^ratus in a little 
water; spread out the bread on the board, dust a little 
flour on it, and spread the salaeratus and water over, 
and -work it well through. This quite takes away the 
sour taste, but if the bread is made of good lively yeast. 



60 



BREAD, ETC. 



it seldom requires it; let it rise in the pans about half an 
hour. Many persons that make their own bread, are 
in the constant practice of using salaeratus, putting in 
tlie rising for six loaves a heaped tea-spoonful, dissolveo 
in a little warm water; in this there is no disadvantage, 
and it insures sweet bread, and will also answer in 
making rolls or light cakes. 

Common sized loaves will bake in an hour in the 
brick oven. If they slip easily in the pans, and, upon 
breaking a little piece from the side, it rises from the 
pressure of the finger, it is done; but if it should not 
rise, put it back again; when the bread is taken out 
of the oven, wrap it in a cloth till quite cold. 

You should have a large tin vessel with holes in the 
top, to keep bread in; in this way, it will be moist at 
tlie end of the week in cool weather. 

Coarse brown flour or middlings makes very sweet 
light bread, by putting in scalded corn meal, say, to 
two loaves, half a pint, and is also good to use for 
breakfast made as buckwheat cakes. 

Directions for Heating a Brick Oven, &c. 

It is very important to have good oven-wood split 
fine, and the oven fdled with it as soon as the baking 
is out ; by this precaution it is always ready and dry. 
Early in the morning, take out half of the wood, and 
spread the remainder over the oven, in such a way as 
it will take fire easily; light a few stickpin the fire, and 
put them in ; when it burns well, turn the wood about, 
and occasionally add more till it is all in; when it is 
burnt to coals, stii- them about well with a long-handled 
shovel made for the purpose. 

When it looks bright on the top and sides, it is hot 
enough; let the coals lay all over the bottom till near 



BREAD, ETC. 



61 



the time of putting in the bread, when draw them to 
the mouth, as it is apt to get cool the quickest. If you 
have biscuit to bake, put some of the coals on one side 
near the front, as they require a quick heat, and should 
De put in immediately after the coals are taken oiit; they 
will bake in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

When all the coals are taken out, if the bottom of the 
oven sparkles, it is very hot, and should wait a few min- 
utes; but if not, you may put in the bread first, and 
then the pies; if you have a plain rice pudding to bake, 
it should be put in the middle of the front, and have 
two or three shovels of coals put round it, if the oven 
is rather cool. Close the oven with a wooden stopper 
made to fit it; after they have been in a few minutes, 
see that they do not brown too fast; if so, keep the 
stopper down a little while. Pies made of green fruit 
will bake in three-quarters of an hour; but if the fruit 
has been stewed, half an hour will be long enough. 

Rusk, or rolls, take about half an hour to bake in a 
brick oven; if you should have to open the oven very 
often before the bread is done, put in a few shovels of 
coals and shut it up. 

When all is taken out, fill the oven with wood ready 
for the next baking. 

There is nothing in any department of cooking that 
gives more satisfaction to a young housekeeper than to 
have accomplished what is called a good baking. 

Graham Bread. 

Take six quarts of unbolted flour, one tea-cup of 
good yeast, and six spoonsful of molasses; mix them 
with a pint of milk, warm water, and a tea-spoonful of 
salaeratus; make a hole in the flour and stir this mix- 
ture in it, till it is like batter; then proceed as with 
6* 



62 BRKAD VKAST. 

fine flour. .Mould it, when light, into four loaves 
Have your oven hotter tlian for other bread, and bake 
it fully one hour and a half. It is an excellent article 
of diet for dyspeptic and sedentary persons. 

Dyspepsy Bread. 

This is three-fourths uiil)olted llour, and the remain 
ing fourth common llour, and is risen and made as othe. 
light bread, but should be baked rather more. 

Yeast. 

It is important to those tiiat make their own bread, 
to make their own yeast, or they cannot judge of its 
strength. The best is the old-fashioned hop yeast, 
which will keep for six weeks in winter. 

Put a pint of hops in a pot, with a quart of water; 
cover it tightly, and let it boil slowly for half an hour; 
strain it while boiling hot on a pint of flour, and a 
heaped table-spoonful of salt; stir it well, and let it 
stand till nearly cool; when jnit in a tea-cupful of good 
yeast; if it is not sweet, put in a little sala}ratus, just as 
you stir it in; kecj) it in a warm jilace till it rises, 
when j)ut it in a stone jug, and cork it tightly. Keep 
it in a cool place in summer, but do not let it freeze in 
winter; shake it before you use anv. 

When your yeast jug is empty, fill it with water, and 
let it soak; wash it well, and if it should smell sour, 
rinse it with saUeratus water. If you have a garden, 
raise your own hops by all means; pick them by the 
first of September, or they will lose their strength; dry 
them on sheets spread on the garret floor. 

If you buy hops, choose light green ones, with the 
yellow dust about them. Bro^vn hops have generally 
stayed too long on the vines. 



YEAST. 63 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Put two handsful of hops into three pints of water; 
let it boil to one quart; when cold, strain it on to a pint 
of best flour, a table-spoonful of salt, half a pint ot 
sugar-house molasses, and a tea-cup of good yeast: as 
it rises, skim off the top several times, when the yeast 
looks white bottle it up tight and it wiU keep for sev- 
eral weeks. 

Com Flour Dry Yeast 

Put a large handful of good hops in a quart of water; 
cover it close, and let it boil nearly half away, when 
strain it over corn flour; it must all be wet, but not so 
soft as for bread; put in a large spoonful of salt, and 
mix it well; when about milk warm, put in two table- 
spoonsful of yeast, (observe that the yeast is lively,) rub 
it through with your hands; it must be so stiff as just 
to stick together ; set it in a warm place to rise, which 
it should do in a few hours. When light, rub in more 
corn flour, and scatter it in dishes, very thin, (or put it 
on a cloth on a large waiter, spread thinly.) It should 
be dried quickly, or it may turn sour, eidier in the sun, 
(which is best,) or a warm stove room; stir it over 
frequently; w^hen perfectly dry, cover it close, either in 
a jar or wooden box, and keep it in a' dry closet. 
Select a sunny day, and begin early in the morning, as 
by this method you may have your yeast dry by night. 
Half a tea-cupful is enough for two loaves of wheat 
bread, (it should be soaked in water some minutes 
before using it,) and it is generally best to put in half 
a tea-spoonful of salseratus, as dry yeast is more apt to 
turn sour than the liquid yeast. 

Some good housekeepers use this yeast where hops 
are scarce, and it answers very well. It will keep good 
six weeks or two months. 



64 



Potato Yeast 

Boil four large potatoes with a tea-cupful of hops 
tied loosely in a bag; mash the potatoes in a pan, with 
a spoonful of salt, and four of flour; pour the hop-water 
on it, and mix all together; when nearly cold, put in 
two table-spoonsful of yeast; put it in a quart jar, and 
let it rise; it will do to use in five or six hours. This 
yeast is much weaker than tlie first receipt; but it has 
this advantage, — that with a pint of it you may knead up 
four loaves of bread at night without making rising. 
It is best to make this yeast once a week, always being 
careful to have the jar sweet before you put it in. 

Potato Yeast with Sugar. 

To about a cjuart of potatoes, boiled and made thin 
enough with warm water to pass through a sieve, add, 
when cold, a tea-cupful of sugar, a table-spoonful 
of salt, and a gill of common yeast. This is a quick 
yeast, but will not keep so long as those before men- 
tioned. 

Dry Yeast 

Put a pint of hops in half a gallon of water; cover 
it close and. boil it do^^^l to one half; strain it over 
flour enough to make a thick batter; when nearly cold, 
put in a tea-cup of yeast, and three table-spoonsful of 
salt; when well risen, work in as much corn meal as 
will make it as stiff as biscuit dough; add a spoonful of 
sugar and one of ginger; when it rises again, make it 
out into little cakes, which must be dried in the shade, 
and turned twice a day. If made in dry weather, this 
yeast will keep for several months, and is useful when 
hops are scarce ; it should be kept in a tight box, or a 
bag hung up in a dry place. 



YEAST ROLLS. 66 

Milk Yeast 

If you have no yeast, you may make some with 
milk, to rise wilh. Take a pint of new milk and stir in 
it two tea-spoonsful of salt, and half a tea-cup of flour; 
keep it moderately warm by the fire, and it will lighten 
in about an hour; stir in flour enough to make a large 
loaf of bread, with more milk or water. This yeast 
should be used immediately, and will do to lighten hop 
yeast. To thicken half a gallon of water with a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, a little salt and flour, makes 
very good yeast when you cannot get hops. It will 
do to use in a day. 

Superior Boiled Milk Rolls. 

Boil a quart of- new milk; pour it on a quart of 
flour, while boiling hot, and stir it well; when nearly 
cold, add two tea-spoonsful of salt, two table-spoons- 
ful of lard, and half a tea-cup of good yeast; set it in 
a warm place to rise for about two hours ; when light, 
work flour in it on the cake-board, and, when quite 
smooth, mould it out into rolls, and put them in a 
baking-pan, which has been rubbed with lard or but- 
ter; set them in a warm place to rise again; — if the 
weather is warm, on a table in the kitchen, but if cold, 
set them by the fire. When light, put them in a cool 
place till you are ready to bake ; they should have a 
moderate heat, and will bake in half an hour. In 
winter they may be moulded out and placed in the 
bake-pan over night for breakfast, or some hours 
before wanted for tea, and kept in a cool place till half 
an hour before baking, when set them near the stove 
to rise up. With the addition of nutmeg and sugar, 
you may make nice rusk. 



66 ROLLS. 

Egg Rolls. 

Boil a quart of new milk \vith a quarter ol' a })ouiia 
of butter, tlie same of lard, and a litllo salt; beat up 
two Qggi^, and pour the boiling milk on them, stirring 
all the time; when nearly cold, add a tea-cup ot yeast 
and as much wheat flour as will make it a thick batter^ 
when quite light knead it up as bread, and let it lighten 
before moulding out; grease the pans, and bake them 
with a moderate heat. A little sugar and water rubbed 
on just before baking rolls makes tliem glossy. 

Soft Rolls. 

Rub two ounces of ])uttcr into two pounds of flour 
stir in as much boiling milk as will make a soft dough , 
when cold enough, add half a tea-cup of yeast, and a 
little salt; beat it well with a spoon, and let it rise as 
long as bread; mould them out in pans, and bake as 
other rolls. 

Water Rolls. 

Make a rising of a cjuart of warm water, a little salt, 
a tea-cup of yeast, two spoonsful of butter and flour; 
let this rise, and knead it with as much flour as will 
make a soft dough, and work it well; when it has 
risen again, mould it out, and bake half an hour. 

A nice griddle cake may be made by rofling this 
out, and baking it on the griddle or dripping-pan of a 
stove. 

Potato Rolls. 

Boil potatoes enough to make a quart when mashed, 
which should be done with a rolling-pin on a cake- 
board; mix these with a gallon of flour, a spoonful 
of butter, one of lard, and some salt; stir in water 
suflficient to make dough, not quite so stiff as for light 



ROLLS. 67 

bread, and a tea-cup of yeast; knead it for half an 
hour, and set it to rise; when it is light, set it away in 
a cold place, and as you require it, cut off a piece; 
mould it in little cakes, and let them rise an hour 
before baking. These rolls will keep several days in 
cold weather. If the dough should get sour, mix in 
some salairatus. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Boil a quart of pared potatoes — pour off the water, 
mash them, add half a pint of sweet milk, warmed, 
and a small table- 'spoonful of salt; stir well, and pour 
it scalding hot into a quart of flour; add cold milk 
enough to make it the right consistence for rising; stir 
in half a tea-cap of yeast, and set it by to rise; it will 
soon be light, and is then to be made into dough, with 
shortened flour, as other rolls, and made out into 
cakes ; and after standing in a warm place to become 
light again, which should not take long, bake with 
rather a quick heat. These rolls may be eaten warmed 
over. 

Mush Rolls, without Milk or Eggs. 

When milk is scarce, (or for a change,) you can 
make good rolls with mush. Take a pint of corn 
meal, pour on it three pints of boiling water — stirring 
it as you pour; put in three ounces of lard, a table- 
spoonful of salt, and when milk warm, put in two 
table-spoonsful of yeast,- then mix in w^heat flour, and 
make it a soft dough; cover the pan close, set it in a 
warm place till it begins to rise; as soon as hght, set 
it in a cold place; mould them out an hour before you 
bake them, and allow them to rise in the dripping-pan. 
It will do to bake in a larffe cake rolled out. 



68 ROLLS. 

Twist Rolls. 

Boil a pint of milk, put in a small lump of butter 
and a little salt; beat up an egg and put in, when 
nearly cold, with a spoonful of yeast and some flour; 
when lig;ht, knead in more flour to make it quite stiff"; 
work it well, and let it rise again; grease a dutch-oven 
or spider, flour your hands, and roll it out in rings, or 
round several times, a little higher in the middle. 
They will be nearly all crust, and suit delicate persons 
tliat cannot eat other warm bread. 

French Rolls. 

To one quart of sweet milk, boiled and cooled, half 
a pound of butter, half a tea-cup of yeast, a little salt, 
and flour enough to make a soil dough ; beat up the 
milk, butter and yeast in the middle of the flour ; let 
it stand till light, in a warm place; then work it up 
w^ith the whites of two eggs, beaten light; let it rise 
again, then mould out into long rolls; let them stand 
on the board or table, to lighten, an hour or two; 
then grease your pans and bake in an oven or stove. 

Bread Rolls. 

In the morning, when your bread is light, take as 
much as would make one loaf; j)our boiling water on 
half a pint of corn meal — stir it well — add a little salt, 
spread open the dough and work in the mush, with the 
addition of a table-spoonful of lard or butter, and a 
little flour; work well and mould out, placing them in 
your pans, and set them in a moderately warm place to 
lighten ibr tea; bake in a stove, if the weather is cold. 
This dough will keep two days, and may be baked as 
you need them. 



69 



Maryland Biscuit. 

Rub half a pound of lard into three pounds of flour; 
put in a spoonful of salt, a tea-cup of cream, and 
water sufficient to make it into a stiff dough; divide it 
into two parts, and work each well till it will break 
off short, and is smooth; (some pound it with an iron 
hammer, or axe;) cut it up in small pieces, and work 
them into little round cakes; give them a slight roll 
with the rolling-pin, and stick them; bake them in a 
dutch-oven, brick-oven, or dripping-pan of a stove, 
with a quick heat. These biscuits are very nice for 
tea, either hot or cold. 

Light Biscuit. 

Boil a quart of milk, and when nearly cold, stir it 
in the middle of your pan of flour, with two spoonsful 
of yeast, and one of butter and salt; let it lighten for 
two or three hours; knead the flour in it, and let it 
rise again : a little while before you bake, roll it out, 
and cut it with the top of your dredging-box. Let 
them rise a few minutes in the dripping-pan. 

Salaeratus Biscuit. 

Warm a quart of sweet milk, and put in it half a 
tea-spoonful of salaeratus, and a heaped spoonful of 
lard or butter, and half a spoonful of salt; pour this 
in as much flour as will make a stiff dough; work it 
a quarter of an hour; mould and bake them as other 
biscuit. 

Quick Biscuit. 

Rub a small table-spoonful of lard into a quart of 
flour, and mix in two tea-spoonsful of finely powdered 
cream of tartar, with a tea-spoonful of salt ; put a tea- 
7 



70 BISCUIT. 

spoontul of super carbonate of soda in a pint of warm 
milk, — work it in and make the paste of ordinary con- 
sistence for biscuit or pie crust, adding flour or milk, 
if either is needed; make it out in biscuit form, or 
roll it about half an inch thick, and cut in shapes; — 
bake them about twenty minutes. 

Tea Biscuit. 

INIelt half a pound of butter in a quart of warm 
milk; add a spoonful of salt, sift two pounds of flour, 
make a hole in tlie centre, put in three table-spoonsful 
of yeast, add the milk and butter; make a stifl' paste; 
when quite light, knead it well, roll it out an inch 
thick, cut it with a tumbler, prick them witli a fork, 
bake in buttered pans, with a quick heat ; split and 
butter before sending them to table. 

Dyspepsy Biscuit. 

Msike them as Mar}land biscuit, except that, instead 
of either, lard or butter, you must use a portion of rich 
cream ; beat or work them well, and roll tliem mod- 
erately thin. 

Salaeratus Cake. 

Warm a pint of butter-milk, put in it a tea-spoonful 
of powdered saUeratus, and a piece of lard the size of 
an egg; stir it into flour till it is a soft dough ; roll it 
out, and bake it on the griddle, or in the dripping-pan 
of a stove. If you have no sour milk, put a table- 
spoonful of vinegar in sweet milk. 

Wafer Cakes. 

Rub half a pound of lard into two pounds and a half 
of flour; add a little salt and water suflScient to make a 



SHORT CAKE MUFFINS. 71 

stiff dough: work it well for half an hour, make it in 
small round lumps, and roll these until they are as thin 
as possible ; bake them with a slow heat and they will 
look almost white. These are nice cakes for tea, 
either hot or cold. 

Short Cake. 

To three quarts of flour take three-quarters of a 
pound of lard, and a spoonful of salt ; rub the lard in 
the flour, and put in cold water, sufficient to make a 
stiff" dough; roll it out without working in thin cakes; 
have the bake-iron hot, flour it, and bake with a quick 
heat; when one side is brown, turn and bake the other; 
when baked in the dripping-pan of a stove, they do 
without turning; — you may cut them in round cakes, 
if you choose. Some use half milk and half water; 
in that case, less lard is required. 

Cold "Water Muffins. 

Sift a quart of flour, add to it a little salt, a large 
spoonful of yeast, beat the white of a fresh egg to a 
froth; after mixing the flour up with cold water into a 
soft dough, add the egg', set it in a-moderately warm 
place. Next morning beat it well with a spoon, put it 
on the bake-iron in round cakes; when one side is 
nicely brown, turn them ; keep them hot till sent to 
table, split and butter them. If you wish to have 
muffins for tea, they should be made up early in the 
morning. 

Smith Muffins. 

Boil a quart of new milk, have three pounds of flour, 
three eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound of lard, a 
table-spoonful of salt; rub the lard in the flour and 



72 MUFFINS. 

while the milk is still warm, (but not hot,) stir it in the 
flour, put in the eggs, and a tea-cup of good yeast; 
beat all well, and set them in a warm place to rise; 
when light they should be set in a cool place till you 
are ready to bake them, which should be in rings, or 
round cakes on the bake-iron, in a dutch-oven, or the 
{lrip]iing-pan of a stove; butter just as you send them 
to table. If the batter is kept in a cold place it will keep 
good for two days in winter. Before baking muffins, 
or any kind of light cakes, taste the batter, and if at all 
sour, put in a small portion of salseratus, (previously 
dissolved in hot water.) — In this way superior muffins 
may be made. 

Mansfield Muffins. 

Take a quart of milk, three eggs, quarter of a pound 
of butter or lard, a tea-cup of yeast, and flour to make 
a soft dough; beat the whites of the eggs alone, the 
yelks with the milk ; melt the butter and stir it in after 
all is mixed; bake them in rings, or in round cakes on 
the griddle: split and butter before sending them to 
table. 

Rice Muffins. 

Pour a quart of milk on four heaped spoonsful of 
rice flour, stir it well, and put in a little salt and wheat 
flour, to make it a proper thickness, two eggs and two 
spoonsful of yeast; allow it four hours to rise, and 
bake in rings, or thin it and bake as batter cakes. 

Muffins. 

Warm a pint of milk, and stir into it a pound and a 
quarter of flour, (a quart of flour is about equal to a 
jiound and a quarter,) and two eggs, the yelks beaten 
witli the batter, the whites alone; mix with these two 



MUFFINS. 73 

spoonsful of lively yeast and a little salt; let them rise, 
and when you are nearly ready to bake them, stir in a 
large spoonful of melted butter; butter the rings and 
bake on a griddle, or in the dripping-pan of a stove. 
Split and butter before sending them to table. 

Mush Muffins. 

Make a quart of mush, put into it a lump of butter 
or lard, the size of two eggs, and a little salt; pre- 
viously to making the mush, have ready a pint of light 
rising, stir into it a pint of new milk, and the mush, 
with as much wheat flour as will make it a very thick 
batter; let it rise four or jfive hours, and when light, 
set it in a cold place, till you are ready to bake; dip a 
spoon in water each time, and put the batter on the 
griddle in small cakes, or bake in rings. You may 
make it a little stifter, and roll it out to bake in large 
cakes. If it should sour, put in a little salceratus. If 
you have no milk, water will do instead. They will 
be nice toasted. 

A Loaf of Muffin Batter. 

Stir into a j^int of mush a small lump of butter, a 
little salt, a pint of milk, and wheat' flour to make a 
thick batter; stir into it half a tea-cup of yeast, and let 
it rise ; when it is light, butter a pan, pour it in and 
bake; eat it hot, at breakfast or supper. It will bake 
in a shallow pan in half an hour; if in a deep vessel, 
allow more time. 

Boiled Milk Muffins. 

Boil a quart of new milk, and pour it boiling hot, on 
as much flour as will make a thick batter; put in a 
table -spoonful of butter, and the same of lard, two tea- 

1* 



74 



MUFFINS WAFFLES. 



spoonsful of salt, half a tea-cup of yeast, one egg 
beaten; allow time to rise from six to eight hours; 
■when perfectly light, set them in a cool place, tiU you 
are ready to bake, when you may use rings, or not, as 
you please — but be sure to butter the rings. 

Cream Muffins. 

Take a quart of sour cream, and two eggs well 
beaten, a tea-spoonful of salt; stir the eggs into the 
cream, gradually; add sifted flour enough to make a 
thick batter, dissolve a tea-spoonful of sala?ratus in as 
much vinegar as will cover it, and stir it in at the last; 
bake in small cakes on the griddle, or in muffin rings 
in the dripping-pan of a stove. 

"Waffles. 

Make a batter of a pound and a half of flour, quarter 
of a pound of melted butter, and two large spoonsful 
of yeast; put in three eggs, the whites and yelks beaten 
separatelv; mix it with a (juart of milk, and put in the 
butter just before you bake ; allow it four hours to rise ; 
grease the waflle-irons, fill them with the batter — bake 
them on a bed of coals. When they have been on the 
fire two or three minutes, turn the waffle-irons over, — 
when brown on both sides, they are sufficiently baked. 
The wafllo-irons should be well greased with lard, and 
very hot before each one is put in. The waffles 
should be buttered as soon as cooked. Serve them up 
with powdered white sugar and cinnamon. 

Quick Waffles. 
Take a pint of milk, and beat into it three eggs, and 
enough wheat flour to make a thick batter; add a 
table-spoonful of melted butter, and a little salt; bake 



WAFFLES CAKES. 75 

them immediately. Some persons add two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, and a little cinnamon ; others dust 
loaf-sugar and cinnamon, or nutmeg over each waffle, 
as it is baked. 

Rice Waffles. 

To six spoonsful of soft boiled rice, add two tea-cups 
of w^ater or milk, and some salt ; stir in three tea-cups 
of ground rice, and bake as other waffles. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Warm a quart of milk, put in a spoonful of butter, a 
little salt, and two eggs well beaten ; stir in flour till it 
is a thin batter, and two spoonsful of yeast ; beat all 
well together, adding the eggs at the last; allow it five 
hours to rise, and bake it on the griddle in cakes, the 
size of a breakfast plate. Do not butter them till you 
send them to the table. 

Mush Flannel Cakes. 
Mix a pint of corn mush with two of wheat flour, a 
spoonful of butter or lard, two eggs and half a te^-cup 
of yeast; make it in a batter with water or milk, and 
bake like buckwheat cakes. 

V 

Bread Batter Cakes. 
Soak slices of stale bread in cold sweet milk for 
half an hour; then put it over the fire, and let it come 
to a boil, and mash it well; when nearly cool, add 
wheat flour enough to make a stiff" batter; beat this 
together with two eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a 
table-spoonful of good yeast; let it rise and bake as 
buckwheat cakes; if light before you are ready, set 
them in a cold place. 



76 CAKES SALLY LUNN. 

Butter-milk Cakes. 

You may make a very good batter cake without 
eggs. To a quart of butter-milk, put a piece of lard, 
the size of an egg; warm them together, and stir in a 
tea-spoonful of salaratus; make it in a tliin batter with 
flour; beat it a few minutes, and bake it as other 
cakes. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Take quart of buckwheat flour, half a pint of wheat 
flour, and a spoonful of salt ; make them into a thick 
batter, with milk-warm water ; put in a half tea-cup 
of yeast, and beat it well ; set it by the fire to rise, and 
if it should be light before you are ready to bake, put 
a tea-cup of cold water on the top, to prevent it from 
running over; if it should get sour, pour in a tea- 
spoonful of salajratus, dissolved in hot water, just 
before you bake. 

It is best to make them up quite thick, and thin 
them with a little warm water before you bake ; butter 
tlicm just as you send them to table. If you can get 
brewers' yeast, it is much better for buckwheat cakes. 
In very cold weather, they may be kept made up for 
several days, and baked as required. 

Sally Lunn. 

Warm a quart of milk with a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and a heaped spoonful of sugar ; beat up three 
eggs, and put in, with a little salt, and flour enough to 
make it stiffer than pound-cake ; beat it well ; put in a 
tea-cup of yeast, and let it rise ; butter a fluted pan and 
pour it in ; bake it in a quick oven, slice and butter it. 
If you wish tea at six o'clock, set it to rise at ten in 
the morning. Bake it an hour. 



CAKES TOAST CORN BREAD. 77 

Butter-milk Batter Cakes. 

SoaK pieces of dry stale bread in a quart of butter- 
milk, until soft; break in two eggs, add a little butter 
or lard, and salt and flour enough to make it stick to- 
gether ; beat it well, add a tea-spoonful of salairatus, 
dissolved in warm w^ater; thin it with a little sweet 
milk, and bake as other batter cakes. They may be 
prepared in a short time. 

Toast, 

Cut your bread (which is better to be stale) in 
tolerably thick slices, brown it slowly before the fire 
on each side; you may either butter it dry, or mix 
butter in water, with a little salt added, and after 
making it boiling hot, pour over each slice as you send 
it to table. 

A Dish of Milk Toast for Breakfast. 

Boil a quart of rich milk, take it off, and stir in half 
a pound of fresh butter, mixed wuth a small spoonful 
of flour: let it again come to a boil; have ready a dish 
of toast, pour it from a spoon over each piece, and 
what remains, pour over the whole; keep it covered 
and hot, till you send to table. 

General Remarks on making Bread of Indian 
Corn Meal. 

A wooden spoon with a long handle, is the best for 
stirring and mixing the bread or cakes. It requires 
more salt than other bread, and should be well mixed 
or beaten. If it is mixed over night, it should gene- 
rally be done with cold w^ater, and set in the cellar or 
some cool place in summer; in winter it requires rather 
a warmer place to stand. It sours more easily than 



78 CORN MEAL BREAD, ETC. 

bread made of other flour. In the morning, if you find 
that it is at all acid, dissolve half a tea-spoonful of sai- 
aeratus in warm water, and stir it just before it is pui 
to bake. Where milk is used, it should be baked im- 
mediately, and tlie richer the milk, the more palatable 
it is. Whatever you bake this bread in, should be well 
greased first, as it is more apt to adhere to the oven 
than some other kinds of flour. It should bake with a 
quick heat. 

When you buy salaeratus, pound it fine, put it in a 
wide-moutlu'd bottle, and cork it tight. Some persons 
keep it dissolved in water, but you cannot judge of the 
strenofth of it so well. 

Corn Meal Porridge. 

Put on to boil in a saucepan a quart of milk, mix a 
small tea-cup of corn meal with half a pint of cold 
water, (let it settle, and pour off what swims on the 
top,) then stir it in well to keep it from being lumpy ; 
let it boil only a few minutes; add salt to the taste. 
This makes a good breakfast for children, and is a liffht 
diet for an invalid. It can be seasoned with sugar. 

Mush, Mush Cakes, and Fried Mush. 

Mush will keep for several days in cool weather; the 
best way of making it is to have a pot of boiling water, 
and stir in corn meal, mixed with water, and salt 
enough to season the whole ; let it boil, and if it is not 
thick enough you can add more meal; keep stirring all 
the time to prevent it from being lumpy. It should 
boil an hour. 

To make the cakes, take a quart of cold mush, mix 
in it half a pint of wheat flour, and a little butter or 
lai'd, make it out in little cakes with your hands; flour 



CORN MEAL BREAD, ETC. 79 

them and bake them on a griddle or in a dripping-pan. 
Fried mush is a good plain dessert, eaten with sugar 
and cream. Cut the cold mush in slices, half an inch 
thick, o" make them into small cakes, dip them in flour, 
and fry them in hot lard. 

Journey Cake. 

Pour boiling water on a quart of meal, put in a little 
lard and salt, and mix it well ; have an oak board with 
a rim of iron at the bottom, and an iron handle fastened 
to if that will prop it up to the fire ; put some of the 
dough on it, dip your hand in cold water and smooth 
it over; score it with a knife, and set it before coals to 
bake. 

Corn Batter Cakes. 

Take a quart of good milk, three eggs, a little salt, 
and as much sifted corn meal as will make a thin batter ; 
beat all well together, with a spoonful of wheat flour 
to keep them from breaking; bake in small cakes, keep 
them hot, and butter just as you send to table. 

Another way to make corn batter cakes, is to take a 
quart of corn meal, two eggs, a small lump of butter or 
lard, and mix it up with milk, or half water, if milk is 
scarce, and bake them either thin or thick. 

Rice Cakes, 

Take a pint of soft boiled rice, a pint of milk, a little 
salt, and as much corn meal as will make a thin batter 
with two eggs ; beat all together, and bake as corn 
batter cakes, or make it thicker and bake it in a pan. 

Corn Bannock. 

To one quart of sour milk, put a tea-spoonful of 
salaeratus, dissolved in water; warm the milk slightly, 



80 CORN MEAL BREAD, ETC. 

beat up an egg, and put in corn meal enough to make 

it as thick as pudding batter, and some salt; grease u 

pan and bake it, or you may put it in six or eight 

saucers. 

Virginia Pone. 

Beat three eggs, and stir thcni in a quart of milk, 
with a little salt, a spoonful of melted butter, and as 
much sifted corn meal as will make it as thick as corn 
batter cakes; grease the pans and bake quick. 

Lightened Pone. 

Take half a gallon of corn meal, and pour boiling 
water on one-third of it; mix it together with warm 
water till it is a thick batter ; put in two table-spoonsful 
of lively yeast, and one of salt; stir it well and set it 
by the fire to rise; when it begins to open on the top, 
grease the dutch-oven and put it to bake, or bake it in a 
pan in a stove. 

Cold Water Pone. 

Make a stiff batter with a quart of Indian meal, cold 

water and a little salt; work it well witli the hand; 

grease a pan or oven, and bake it three-quarters of an 

hour. Eat it hot at dinner, or with milk at supper. 

Indian Bread ^vith Butter-milk. 

To one quart of butter-milk, slightly warmed, put a 
tea-spoonful of salairatus, dissolved in water, two eggs, 
well beaten, a table-spoonful of melted butter or lard, a 
little salt; stir in with a spoon as much Indian meal as 
will make a thick batter ; beat it for a few minutes, 
grease your pans, and bake quickly. If you bake this 
quantity in two pans, a half hour vriW be sufficient, or if 
in one, it will take an hour. Look at it often while 
baking, as it is liable to burn. An excellent recipe. 



CORN MEAL, BREAD, ETC. 8l 

Little Indian Cakes. 

Put a spoonful of lard in a quart of meal, and two 
tea- spoonsful of salt; pour boiling water on half the 
meal, stir it; tnen add as much cold water as will ena- 
ble you to make it out in cakes of a convenient size ; 
bake on the bake-iron over the fire. 

Maryland Corn Cakes. 

Mix a pint of corn meal with rich milk, a little salt, 
and an egg; it should be well beaten with a spoon, 
and made thin enough to pour on the iron ; bake in 
cakes the size of a breakfast plate; butter and send 
them hot to table. 

A Virginia Hoe Cake. 

Pour warm water on a quart of Indian meal ; stir in 
a spoonful of lard or butter, some salt, make it stiff, and 
work it for ten minutes; have a board about the size 
of a barrel head, (or the middle piece of the head will 
answer,) wet the board with water, and spread on the 
dough with your hand; place it before the fire; prop it 
aslant with a flat-iron, bake it slowly ; when one side 
is nicely brown, take it up and turn it, by running a 
thread between the cake and the board, then put it 
back, and let the other side brown. These cakes used 
to be baked in Virginia on a large iron hoe, from 
whence they derive their name. 

Eatter Bread with Yeast. 

Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg, into a 
quart of corn meal; add a little salt; make it in a bat- 
ter with two eggs and some new milk; add a spoonful 
of yeast, set it by the fire an hour to rise; butter httle 
pans, and bake with a quick heat. 
8 



82 



CORN MEAL BREAD, ETC. 



Carolina Corn Rolls. 

Take a pint of corn meal; pour over it sufficient 
boilmg water to make a very stiff dough, then add a 
table-spoonful of salt, and permit it to stand until about 
milk- warm; work it well with the hand, then make out 
the rolls, of an oblong shape, and bake tliem from half 
to tliree-quarters of an hour, according to their size. 
The addition of a small lump of butter or lard is an 
improvement. If they are rightly made, they will split 
on the top in baking, and can be eaten by those who 
cannot partake of other preparations made of corn 
dour. 

Mixed Bread. 

Put a little salt, and a s]ioonful of yeast, into a quart 
of (lour; make it siitHcieiitly soft with corn meal gruel; 
let it rise; bake in a mould. 

New England Hasty Pudding, or Stir-about. 

iJoil tliiee ([uarts of water in an iron pot; mix a pint 
of Indian meal in cold water, and make it thin enough 
to jiour easily; when the water boils, pour it in; stir 
well with a wooden stick kept for the purpose; it takes 
about an hour to boil; salt to your taste; stir in dry 
meal to make it thick enough, beating it all the time. 
Eat it with milk or molasses, or butter and sugar. 
This is said to be a wholesome diet for dyspeptic 
patients, and makes a good meal for children. 

Com Muffins. 

Warm three pints of milk, and stir into it as much 
corn meal as will make it as thick as pudding batter , 
add two handsful of wheat flour, two tea-spoonsful of 
salt, three eggs, and a tea-cup of yeast. Beat the 



PIES, PUDDINGS, CAKES, ETC. 83 

whole well together, and let it rise about six hours, 
when bake as other muffins. 

Soaked Crackers for Tea. 

Pour boihng water on crackers, put in some butter 
and a little salt; cover them close and keep them 
warm till tea is ready ; if you have milk, boil it, and 
pour over instead of water. This is easily prepared. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, CAKES, &c. 



To Make Common Pies. 

One pound of lard to a gallon of flour will make very 
good common pies. Work the lard in the flour, put 
in some salt, and wet it with water ; make it so that it 
can just be rolled out; when you have put in the fruit, 
wet the crust with water, put on the top and close it 
up; stick it with a fork on the top. 

To Stew Fruit for Pies. 

All fruits that are not fully ripe should be stewed 
and sweetened. To boil a gallon of molasses at a time, 
and keep it to sweeten pies, is cheaper than sugar, 
and answers a very good purpose, where there is a 
large family. When fruit is fully ripe it does very well 
to bake in pies, without being stewed. 

After washing the dried fruit, put it on to stew in a 
bell-metal kettle over the fire, or in a tin pan in a 
stove, let it have plenty of water, as it swells very 
much, and if it seems dry, put in more water. Apples 
take longer to stew than peaches, and should have 
more water. Fruit stewed in this way is very good to 



84 PIES PUDDIXGS. 

put on the table to cat Avith meat. Do not stir the 
fruit while it is stewing, or it will burn. Dried 
cherries and damsons may be stewed in the same 
manner, adding the sugar before they are quite done. 

Pie Crust. 

Sift a pound and a half of flour, and take out a 
quarter for rolling; cut in it a quarter of a pound of 
lard, mix it with water, and roll it out; cut half a 
pound of butter, and put it in at two rollings with the 
flour that was lelt out. 

For making the bottom crust of pies, cut half a 
pound of lard into a pound of flour, with a little salt; 
mix it stiff, and grease the plates before you make 
pies; always make your paste in a cold place, and 
bake it soon. 

Some persons prefer mixing crust with milk instead 
of water. 

Paste for Puddings. 

Sift a pound of flour, have half a pound of butter 
and quarter of a pound of lard, save out a quarter of 
the flour fir rolling, cut the lard into the remainder, 
and mix it with water; roll it out, and flake in half 
of the butter; dust over it some of the flour, close it 
up; roll it again, and put in the rest of the butter. 
This quantity will make crust for five or six puddings. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

To three and a half pounds of sifted flour, put two 
pounds of lard, and a piece of volatile salts (as large 
as a full sized nutmeg) dissolved in a little water; — 
make a prett>' stiff paste; then roll in three-quarters of 
a pound of butter. This will make about eight pies 
and twelve shells. 



PUFF PASTE PIES. 85 

Puff Paste. 

Sift a pound of flour, and take out a quarter for 
rolling; divide a pound of butter into four parts, cut 
one part of the butter into the flour with a knife; make 
it a stiff dough with water, roll it out, and flake it with 
part of the butter ; do this three times till it is all in ; 
handle it as little as possible, and keep it in a cool 
place. This quantity will make crust sufficient for 
three puddings and ten puffs. They should bake with 
a quick heat, but do not let them burn; they will take 
from ten to fifteen minutes to bake, according to the 
number of layers of paste. Do not put on the pre- 
serves till a short time before they are eaten. 

Rich Mince Pies. 

Take four pounds of beef, boiled and chopped fine; 
pick and chop three pounds of suet, wash two pounds 
of currants, and one of raisins; grate the peel of two 
lemons, and put in the juice; pound a spoonful of 
dried orange peel, slice an ounce of citron, and chop 
twelve large apples; mix these together with three 
pounds of sugar, half a pint of wine, and the same of 
brandy — and sweet cider to make it a proper thickness ; 
put in mace and nutmeg to your taste. If the cider is 
not sweet, you must put in more sugar before the pies 
are baked; cut several places in the top of each with a 
pair of scissors. 

Mince Pies not so Rich. 

Take four pounds of beef after it has been boiled 
and chopped, one of suet, two of sugar, two of raisins, 
and four of chopped apples ; mix these together with a 
pint of wine and cider, to make it thin enough ; season 



86 MINCE PIES. 

to your taste with mace, nutmeg and orange peel; il 
it is not sweet enough, put in more sugar. Warm the 
pies before they are eaten. Wliere persons are not 
fond of suet, put butter instead, and stew the apples 
instead of so much cider. 

Farmers' Mince Pies. 

When you kill a beef, save the head for pies ; it is 
some trouble to prepare it, but it is very nice for the 
purpose. Split the head, take out the brains and eyes, 
wash it well in cold water, and soak it all night with 
two hog's heads that have been cleaned; in the morning, 
boil them till you can take out the bones easily ; skim 
off the frotli as it rises, or it will stick to the meat; 
pick out the bones, and chop it fine, with tliree pounds 
of suet. This should be doiu- the day before you want 
to bake. 

Mix to this quantity of meat, two gallons of chopped 
apples, four pounds of raisins, half a gallon of boiled 
molasses, a pint of currant wine, a tea-cup of rose 
brandy, an ounce of cinnamon, orange peel a;«J mact', 
from two to four nutmegs, and sweet cider enough to 
make it the right tliickness; if the cider is not sweet, 
put in more molasses; when all is mixed, it is best to 
bake a small pie, as you can alter the seasoning, if it 
is not to your taste. If you have not raisins, dried 
cherries or small grapes, that have been preserved in 
molasses, are very good, or stewed dried apples, in- 
stead of green; and where you have no cider, stew the 
apples in plenty of water, so as to have them very soft ; 
a little good vinegar, sweetened and mixed with \/ater, 
also does instead of cider, but is not so good. 

This will make about forty pies, and if you have a 
convenient way of keeping them, you may bake all at 



PIES. 87 

once, as they will keep for two months very readily 
when the weather is cold. If you do not bake all at 
once, put what is left in a jar, cover the top with melted 
suet, and over this put a piece of white paper, with a 
tea-cup of spirits poured on the top; tie it up and keep 
it where it will not freeze. Where persons have a 
large family, and workmen on a farm, these pies are 
very useful. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Peel the stalks, cut them in small pieces, and stew 
them till very soft in a little water; when done, mash, 
and sweeten with sugar; set it away to cool; make a 
puff paste, and bake as other pies. Some prefer it 
without stewing, cutting the stems in small pieces, 
and strewing sugar over them before the crust is put 
on. These pies will lose their fine flavor after the first 
day. They take less sugar than gooseberries. 

Peach Pie. 

Take mellow cling-stone peaches, pare, but do not 
cut them; put them in a deep pie plate lined with crust, 
sugar them well, put in a table-spoonful of water, and 
sprinkle a little flour over the peaches; cover vrith a 
thick crust, in which make a cut in the centre, and 
bake from three-quarters to one hour. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

Boil the potatoes, skin and slice them; put a layer 
of potatoes and a layer, of good aj)ples sliced thin in a 
deep dish ; put potatoes and apples alternately till the 
dish is filled, mix together wine, water, sugar, butter 
and nutmeg, and pour over, cover it with crust, and 
bake as oyster pie. 



88 



PIES PUDDINGS. 



Pork Mince Pies. 

Take pieces of fresh pork that have been left from 
sausage meat, or any trimmings of the hams or shoul- 
ders; boil tliem, then chop. Have two heads nicely 
washed and cleaned, boil, pick out the bones and chop 
them; mix with the other meat, and season as you do 
other mince pics, they do not require any suet. The 
lower crust of mince pies need not be so rich as the 
top; always cut several places in tlie top crust with 
scissors, to keep the juice from wasting. Wiien you 
warm mince pies, do it gradually, and do not have the 
crust scorched. Some prefer tliem cold. When the 
pies arc very plain, a little preserve syrup, and a glass 
of wine added is an improvement. 

Currant Pie. 

After stemming green currants, scald them, and 
allow them to stand awhile; pour off the water; have 
tlie crust in your plates; put in the currants, sweeten 
them well; put in a little water, a dust of flour and a 
little orange peel. Gooseberries are prepared in the 
same way, but require more sugar. Cherries should 
not be scalded. 

Pumpkin Pudding. 
Choose a yellow pumpkin, with a fine grain, pare 
and cut it in small pieces, boil it in plenty of water, 
and take it up as soon as it is done, or it will soak up 
the water; to a gallon of pumpkin, stewed and mashed, 
put two quarts of milk, eight eggs, half a pound of 
butter, half a tea-cup of lemon or rose brandy; nut- 
meg and sugar to your taste; bake it in deep plates, 
with a bottom crust. 



PUDDINGS. 89 

Apple Pudding. 

Take three pints of stewed apples, well mashed, 
melt a pound of butter, beat ten eggs with two pounds 
of sugar, and mix all together with a glass of brandy 
and wine; put in nutmeg to your taste, and bake in 
pufF paste. 

Quince Pudding 

Take six quinces, pare them, cut them in quarters, 
and stew them in a little water with lemon peel; cover 
them and let them cook gently till soft, when mash, or 
rub them through a sieve; mix them with sugar till 
very sweet, season with mace and nutmeg; beat up 
four eggs and stir in wuth a pint of cream ; bake it in 
paste. 

Potato Pudding. 

Take a pound and a half of well mashed potatoes; 
while they are warm put in three-quarters of a pound 
of butter; beat six eggs with three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, rolled fine, mix all well together, and put in 
a glass of brandy; season with nutmeg, mace or essence 
of lemon, and bake in paste. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of grated cocoanut, 
with the brown skin taken off, half a pound of sugar, 
the same of butter, the whites of six eggs, beaten light, 
half a pint of cream, a glass of brandy, or rose-water, 
and a quarter of a pound of crackers, pounded fine, 
beat them together and bake in paste. If you wish 
the pudding rich, take a pound of butter, the same 
quantity of cocoanut, of sugar and whites of eggs, 
omitting the crackers and cream. Season as above. 
This quantity will fill six dessert plates of large size. 



90 PUDDINGS. 

S^eet Potato Pudding. 

Boil the potatoes, take off the skin, mash and strain 
them while warm; to a pound of potatoes put half a 
pound of butter; beat six eggs with half a pound of 
loaf-sugar, add a little mace or nutmeg; mix all to- 
gether, and bake with or without paste. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Grate tlie rind of six fresh lemons, squeeze the juice 
from three, and strain it; beat the yelks of sixteen eggs 
very light, put to them sixteen table-spoonsful of 
powdered sugar, not heaped, with four crackers finely 
powdered; beat it till light; put a pufF paste in your 
dish and bake in a moderate oven. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Take one pound of potatoes strained through a 
sieve, half a pound of butter, the same of rolled sugar, 
the juice of two lemons and the peel of one; beat live 
eggs, and mix all together with a glass of wine and a 
nutmeg. 

A Preserve Pudding. 

Take a deep dish, butter it well and spread a layer 
of preserves, without syrup — either quinces, citron, 
apples or peaches; rub together a pound of fresh but- 
ter, and the same of powdered loaf-sugar, and add the 
yelks of sixteen eggs well beaten; pour this on the pre- 
serves, bake it in a quick oven for half an hour; it 
may be set ])y till the next day; beat the whites of the 
eggs as for island, seasoning with currant jelly, and 
spread it over the pudding cold, just as it goes to table. 
This makes a rich dish and is eaten without sauce. 
This quantity will bake in four ordinary pie plates. 



PUDDINGS. 91 

Arrovir Root Pudding. 

Take four table-spoonsful of arrow root, mixed in a 
little cold milk; pour on this a quart of boiling milk, 
beat six eggs with three table-spoonsful of sugar, and 
stir all together with a spoonful of butter; bake it 
twenty minutes in paste. 

Rice Pudding. 

Pour a quart of boiling milk on a pint of rice flour, 
stir it well, and put in six spoonsful of sugar, one of 
butter, and four eggs; beat all together, and bake in 
deep plates, with or without crust. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Boil half a pound of rice till soft; when nearly cold 
stir in half a poun('. of white sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, and three eggs well beaten; grate in half a 
nutmeg, stir in a pint of rich milk; pour all in a yellow 
dish and bake half an hour; then put a thick coating 
of loaf sugar on the top, and eat hot, with or without 
cream. 

Pudding of whole Rice. 

Boil a pint of washed rice in milk or water, till soft; 
put in a lump of butter, five eggs, and sugar to your 
taste; season with essence of lemon, or lemon peel, 
and mix in cream to make it thin enough to pour; bake 
it in paste, in deep plates. 

A Pudding of Corn Meal. 

Pour three pints of boiling milk on nearly half a pint 
of sifted corn meal, stir in half a pound of butter, add 
four eggs, a little nutmeg, rose brandy, and the grated 
peel of a lemon; sweeten it, and bake it in paste. 



92 CHEESE CAKES. 

Com Pudding in Paste. . 

To two pounds of mush moderately warm, put three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, the yelks of six eggs, the 
rind of one lemon, and juice of two; sugar and nutmeg 
to your taste, and bake in paste as potato puddings. 
This is much admired. 

Richmond Pudding. 

Take one pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, half 
a pound of currants rubbed in flour, a pound and a half 
of gratetl bread, a pound of suet shred fine, eight eggs, 
two glasses of brandy, and two of wine; beat them all 
together, adding the eggs at the last ; dip your bag or 
cloth in boiling water and flour it well; pour in the 
jMiddi ng and tie it up, leaving room for it to swell; 
allow it lour hours to boil; eat it with white sauce. 

Suet Pudding. 

Take half a pound of suet chopped fine, four tea- 
cups of flour, and five eggs ; beat these together with 
a quart of milk, and half a spoonful of salt; put in 
three tea-cups of raisins just before you tie it up; they 
should be ri.bbed in flour to prevent them from sink- 
ing; dried cherries, or pared dried peaches, are very 
good instead of raisins; scald the cloth and flour it; 
leave room for the pudding to swell. If you put one- 
fourth corn meal, you can do with fewer eggs. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Take one quart of curd, after the whey has been 
strained off, mix with it half a pound of fresh butter, 
an ounce of pounded blanched almonds, the whites of 
three eggs, a tea-cup of currants; season with sugar and 
rose water to your taste, and bake in plates with paste 



BAKED APPLES PUDDINGS. 93 

Baked Apples. 

Wash and core your apples, and in the vacancy left 
by the core, put brown sugar, and bake them in a 
stove or oven. 

Batter Pudding with G-reen Fruit. 

Make a batter as for suet pudding. If you have 
small fruit, put it in whole; if apples, chop them fine; 
boil it three hours. 

Custard Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Fill a pan with slices of buttered bread, with raisins, 
grated nutmeg and sugar over each slice; beat six eggs 
with a tea-cup of sugar ; add two quarts of rich milk, 
and pour it over the bread and butter; bake it in a 
stove or oven. 

Balloon Puddings. 

Mix a pint of rich milk with a pound and a quarter 
of flour; break nine eggs; beat the yelks with the bat- 
ter, the whites alone ; when they are mixed, stir in 
three-quarters of a pound of melted butter; grease 
cups or bowls with butter; pour in the batter, and bake 
them half an hour; if in a dutch-oven, put some 
water in the bottom ; eat them with white sauce. 

Plain Rice Pudding. 

Put two quarts of good milk in a tin pan, with a tea- 
cup of whole rice, the same of stemmed raisins, and a 
little nutmeg or cinnamon, and sugar to your taste. If 
you bake it in a dutch-oven, it is best to put a little 
water in the bottom before you set it in; bake it 
till the rice is soft, and there is a brown crust on 
the top. 
9 



94 PUDDINGS. 

A Rice Dish -with Fruit. 

Put a tea-cup of rice in a quart of milk, and boil it 
very slowly to keep it from burning; when done, add 
a little salt, a tea-cup of cream, and sugar enough to 
sweeten it; have ready, in a deep dish, any fruit that is 
in season, — cherries, blackberries or apricots, apples, 
or peaches, cut up and well sweetened, but uncooked; 
spread the rice roughly over, and bake it slowly two 
hours. It may be eaten witli cream and nutmeg, and 
is quite as good cold as warm. 

Bread Pudding. 

Bread pudding is made out of bread that is too dry 
to use; cut it fine, boil it in milk, and mash it well; 
beat four eggs and put in, with half a pound of raisins; 
boil it an hour and a half, or bake it. 

Bread and Apple Pudding. 
To be eaten with Sauce. 
Put a layer of buttered bread in the bottom of a 
well buttered dish, with chopped apples, sugar, grated 
bread and butter, and a little pounded cinnamon; fill 
up the dish with alternate layers of these articles, ob- 
serving that it is better to have the inner layer of bread 
thinner than that of the top and bottom. This is a 
nice dish for those who cannot partake of pastry. 

Custard Hasty Pudding. 

Put a quart of new milk on to boil; then mix a tea- 
cup of rice flour with a little milk, two eggs, and three 
spoonsful of sugar; beat it, and when your milk boils, 
stir it in; let it boil five minutes — when pour it out on 
some buttered toast, in a bowl or dish, and grate 
nutmeg over it. 



PUDDINGS. 95 

Elkridge Huckleberry .Pudding. 

One pound of flour, one of light-brown sugar, eight 
eggs — beat as sponge cake, and add one quart of 
berries, nicely picked washed, and allowed to dry; 
bake as sponge cake. This maybe served with sauce, 
either hot or cold. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

Make a batter of five eggs to a quart of milk, and a 
little butter; pick, wash, and rub in flour a pint or 
more of huckleberries ; put them in, and bake as long 
as other puddings, or boil it in a bag. 

Green Com Pudding. 

Cut the green corn through the grain, and scrape it 
off the cob with the back of a knife; prepare a batter 
made of a quart of rich milk, two eggs, and wheat 
flour, and a little salt; then add the corn, and beat it 
well for a few minutes: it should be of a consistence 
to pour easily; grease the pan, and pour it in; bake 
with quick heat in a stove or spider, about half an 
hour. Six ears of corn will be enough for a quart of 
milk, or you may double the quantity; eat it with but- 
ter, sugar and cream, molasses, or any sauce that is 
convenient. 

Baked Pudding. 

Boil a quart of milk, and stir into it half a pint of 
corn meal and a tea-spoonful of salt — mix this well 
together; beat two eggs, stir in when nearly cold; add 
a tea-cup of chopped suet, two table-spoonsful of sugar, 
a little spice — grease a pan, and pour it in; bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Eat it with sugar and 
cream, or molasses sauce. 



96 PUDDINGS. 

A Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Boil a quart of milk, and stir in meal to make it a 
thick batter; put in a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-cup of 
suet, a spoonful of sugar ; mix these well together, 
add two eggs, well beaten. If you have dried 
peaches, soak them; sprinkle them with dry flour, and 
put them in, or put in raisins, previously rubbed with 
wheat flour — beat it well; have your pot boiling, scald 
the bag, flour it, and put in the pudding; — it will boil 
in two hours. Eat with sugar and cream, molasses, or 
any kind of pudding sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. 

Take a loaf of stale light bread, tie it in a cloth, 
boil it an hour, and eat it with sauce, 

A Bird's Nest Pudding. 

Pare and core some apples, enough to fdl a deep dish; 
ihey should be ripe, and such as will cook easily. 
Make a custard of five eggs, to a quart of milk, and 
sugar and nutmeg to taste; pour this over, and bake 
half an hour. 

Little Puddings in Pans. 
Beat four eggs very liirlit; make a batter of two tea- 
cups of flour, three of milk, and one of cream; pour 
in the eggs, and beat all well together ; put in a spoon- 
ful of melted butter; grease your shallow pans or cups, 
and bake from twenty to thirty minutes; eat them with 
sauce, or sugar, cream and nutmeg. 

Svdtzerland Pudding. 

Make a batter of live eggs, a ([uart of milk and flour; 
pare and core enough good apples to cover the bottom 



\ 



PUDDINGS DUMPLINGS. 97 

of your pan; fill the holes where the cores came out 
with sugar; grease the pan, lay them in, and pour the 
batter over; bake it an hour and a half, and make 
wme sauce to eat with it. 

Boiling Puddings. 

In boiling puddings, you must observe to have plenty 
of water in the pot ; the pudding should be turned fre- 
Quently; have the water boiling when it goes in, and 
yxo not let it stop ; have a tea-kettle of water by the 
fire to pour in as it evaporates. When the pudding 
is done, it should be dipped in a pan of cold water, to 
prevent its adhering to the cloth. 

Screw Dumplings. 

Roll out some paste thin, in a long strip; lay in pre- 
serves of any kind, or stewed fruit, well sweetened; roll 
it up and close it tight; pin it up in a towel, and boil 
it an hour; eat it with butter, sugar and cream, or 
sauce. 

Large Dumplings. 

Take green fruit of any kind — peaches, apples, cher- 
ries, blackberries, or huckleberries; make crust as for 
pies, roll it out, put in the fruit, and pin it in a cloth; 
boil it two hours. 

Peach and Apple Dumplings. 

Make crust as for plain pies; cut it in as many 
pieces as you want dumplings; pare and core the 
apples, roll out the crust, and close them up ; have the 
water boiling when they go in, and Itt them boil three- 
quarters of an hour. Peaches pared and stoned make 
very good dumplings; eat them with sauce of any 
kind, or sugar, cream and butter. 
9* 



98 DUMPLINGS PAN CAKES. 

Light Bread Dumplings. 

Take as much lightened dough as will make a loaf 
of bread, work into it half a pound of stemmed raisms, 
tie it up in a cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. 

Rice Dumplings. 

Wash and pick a pint of rice, boil it in water till it 
is soft; have some apples pared and cored whole, fill 
the holes with sugar, cover them over with the rice, 
and tie each one separately in a cloth; boil them till 
die apples are done. 

Indian Suet Dumplings. 

Chop beef suet fine, and to a pint of Indian meal, 
take a table-spoonful of the suet and a little salt; pour 
on boiling water enough to make a stifT dough, work 
it well, make into round cakes, and boil in clear water. 
These are good when vegetables are scarce, to eat 
with meat, or as a dessert with sugar or molasses. 

Corn Dmnplings. 

\Mien you boil corned beef, new bacon, or pork, 
you can make dumplings, by taking some grease out 
of the pot, with some of the water, and pouring it hot 
on a quart of Indian meal, mix and work it well, (it 
will not require salt,) make it into little round cakes; 
(they should be stiflT, or they will boil to pieces;) take 
out the meat when it is done, and boil the dumplings 
m the same water for half an hour. They may bo 
eaten with molasse-, and make a good common dessert. 

Pan Cakes. 

Take five eggs to a quart of milk, make a thin baiter 
with flour, have a littie hot lard in the frj-ing-pan, and 



PAN CAKES FRITTKKS. 99 

pour in enough batter to cover the bottom; turn and 
fry the other side; if eggs are scarce, a tea-spoonful of 
salaeratus will supply the place of two. Eat them with 
wine and sugar. 

Water Pan Cakes — a cheap Dessert. 

Stir a quart of warm water in sufficient flour to make 
a batter of moderate thickness; dissolve a tea-spoonful 
of salseratus, with a little salt, into a tea-cupful of 
butter- milk, or sour cream; beat it well; put a little 
lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot, fry them. 
They are much better to be eaten hot, with sauce, 
sugar and cream, or any thing you may fancy. This 
is a very cheap dessert, and has been thought nearly 
equal to pan cakes made with milk and eggs. 

Apple Fritters. 

Allow four eggs to a quart of milk; make a thick 
batter with flour, and beat it well; stir in a quart of 
apples, chopped fine; have a frying-pan with hot lard, 
and drop a spoonful in a place; fry them light-brown 
on both sides, and eat with sugar and wine, or sweet 
cider. 

Rice Fritters. 

To a pint of rice flour add a tea-spoonful of salt and 
a pint of boiling water; beat four eggs and stir them in, 
have hot lard in a frying-pan, and fry them as other 
fritters. 

Indian Meal Fritters. 

Take a quart of butter-milk, (in which dissolve a tea- 
spoonful of saUeratus,) stir in meal to make a batter of 
suitable thickness, a tea-spoonful of salt and two eggs; 
beat all well together, and fry in hot lard, as other 

•78893r) 



100 RICE FLUMMERY RICE MILK. 

tiiiurs. ll' you like, you can put in chopped apples, 
Eai wiih sugar or molasses. 

SnoviT Fritters. 
Tiike of light new I'allen snow, three table-spoonsful 
for every egg you would otherwise use — that is, if you 
would wish the quantity that three eggs would make 
in tlie usual way, take nine table-spoonsful of snow, 
and stir in a quart of rich milk that has been setting in 
a very cold place, so that it wiU not melt the snow, 
and destroy its lightness ; put in a tea-spoonful of salt, 
and enough wheat flour to make a sti(F batter; have 
ready a frying-pan with boiling lard, and drop a spoon- 
ful in a place as with other fritters, and set the re- 
mainder in a cold place till the first are done. Eat 
them with wine sauce, or sugar, butter and cream, or 
any thing you fancy. 

Rice Flummery. 

Rice that is ground coarse, in a hand-mill, is much 
better for making flummery than the flour you buy: put 
tliree pints of milk to boil, mix with water two tea-cups 
of gi-ound rice, and stir it in the milk when it boils ; 
while the milk is cold, put in it two dozen peach ker- 
nels, blanched, and rolled with a bottle; wet your 
moulds witli cold cream or water; keep stirring the 
rice till it is thick, when pour it out in the moulds ; 
just before dinner turn them out on dishes, have cream, 
sufjar and nutmejr mixed, to eat with it. 

Rice Milk. 

Take a tea-cupful of rice, boil it till about half done, 
and let all the water be evaporated; then add the milk, 
and beat an egg with some flour, and stir in ; let it boil 
a few minutes, and season with sugar and nutmeg. 



i 



SAUCES. 101 

Wine Sauce for Puddings. 

Mix a spoonful of flour in a tea-cup of water, with 
two-spoonsful of sugar and one of butter; stir this in 
half a pint of boiling water; let it boil a few minutes, 
when add a glass of wine and some nutmeg. 

White Sauce. 

Take half a pound of powdered white sugar, and 
quarter of a pound of butter, beat them well together 
with a glass of wine, and grate in half a nutmeg. A 
little currant jelly is preferred by some in this sauce 
mstead of wine. 

Cream Sauce. 

Boil half a pint of cream, thicken it a very little, and 
put in a lump of butter; sweeten it to your taste, and 
after it gets cold add a glass of white wine; this is 
good to eat with boiled rice, plain pudding, or apple 
dumplings. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Put half a pint of molasses to boil in a skillet, with a 
piece of butter the size of an egg; when it has boiled a 
few minutes, pour in a tea-cup of cream, and grate in 
half a nutmeg; this is the most economical way of 
making sauce. 

Egg Sauce. 

Take the whites of three eggs and the yelks of two, 
beat them till very light, and add a large table-spoon- 
ful of butter ready creamed, with sugar and nutmeg 
to your taste; boil three glasses of wme, and pour over 
the other ingredients, put it over the fire, and let it boil 
two minutes, stirring all the time. This is nice sauce 
for any kind of pudding. 



102 TOAST CUSTARDS. 

Cherry Toast, 

Stone and stew a quart of ripe cherries, sweeteii 
them, place some slices of buttered toast in a deep dish, 
and put the stewed cherries over them. A little pow- 
dered cinnamon or g-rated nutmeg may be put on the 
toast. 

Apple Custard. 

Lay a crust in your pie plates, slice apples thin and 
half fdl the plates, pour over a custard made of four eggs 
to a quart of milk, sweeten and season it; bake it 
slowly. 

Custard baked in Cups. 

Beat up five eggs with two heaped spoonsful of su- 
gar, mix these with a quart of rich milk and a little 
nutmeg; fill the cups, pour water in the bottom of a 
dutch-oven or dripping-pan, and set them in and bake 
them till thick. 

Boiled Custard. 

Put on to boil a quart of new milk; have ready a 
dozen peach kernels, scalded, peeled, and rubbed fine 
with a bottle; beat five or six eggs, with some sugar, 
and when the milk boils stir them in with the kernels; 
keep stirring till it thickens, but do not let it boil, or it 
will curdle; tlien jtake it ofT the fire, pour it in a 
pitcher, and continue to stir till it is nearly cold, when 
pour it into your cups, and grate nutmeg over the top 
of each. If you wish to have it flavored with lemon, 
boil some peel with the milk. This custard may be 
put in a glass'bowl, and an island on the top. 

Cold Custard. 

Sweeten half a gallon of milk, put into it a table- 
spoonful of rennet wine, and let it stand in a warm 



CUSTARDS. 103 

place till it begins to come, when it should be set in 
cold water till dinner time j just as you take it to table, 
pour some cream on it, and grate nutmeg over the top. 

Cream Custard. 

To a pint of thin cream, take one egg, and beat and 
season as otner custard; bake it in a plate with paste; 
this quantity is sufficient for one large plate, and is 
more delicate than custard made in the usual way. 

Ice Custard with Vanilla. 

Boil three pints of rich milk with as much vanilla as 
will give it a good flavor; sweeten it to your taste; 
have ready four eggs well beaten, pour the boiling milk 
on them, and keep stirring till cool; when put it to 
freeze. 

Custard with Raisins. 
Stone and cut a tea-cup of raisins, put them in a 
quart of milk; when it boils stir in five eggs well 
beaten, with two table-spoonsful of sugar, and a little 
lemon peel ; keep stirring till it boils again, then take 
it off the fire, and stir till nearly cold ; when put it in 
cups, or in a large bowl; beat the whites of three eggs 
with sugar, and when quite cold put them on the top of 
the custard. 

To Boil Custard in Water. 

Beat the eggs, sugar and seasoning together, and 
put it in a pitcher or nice stone jar; put in the milk and 
stir it well together; set the pitcher in a pot of boiling 
water, and stir till it is cooked, when take the pitcher 
out and stir till nearly cool. Custard should never be 
boiled or baked two much — a minute too long will 
sometimes spoil it. 



104 FLOATING ISLAND BLANCMANGE. 

Whips. 
Grate the peel of a lemdii in a pint of cream, sweeten 
it with loaf sugar, and whip it well; beat the whites of 
three eggs and mix witli it; put apple jelly, seasoned 
with lemon, in the bottom of your glasses, and as th.e 
froth rises put it on the top of the jelly. 

Trifle. 

Put slices of sponge cake or Naples biscuit in the 
bottom of a deep glass dish; on this put slices of pre- 
served citron, or apples preserved with lemon; poui 
over this a boiled custard, and on the top put a whip 
made by the foregoing receipt. 

Floating Island. 

Beat the whites ol five eggs till the beater will stand 
up in them; then add, a little at a time, four spoonsful 
of powdered loaf-sugar, and currant jelly, or preserved 
syrup of any kind; put rich milk in the bottom of a 
glass, or china bowl, and j)ut the island on the top. In 
making floating island, you should allow the whites of 
six eggs to six persons. You can have very good cus- 
tards at tlie same time with the yelks of the eggs. 

Apple Float. 

To a quart of aj)ples, slightly stewed and well mash- 
ed, put the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and four 
table-spoons heaping full of loaf sugar, beat them to- 
gether for fifteen minutes, and eat witli rich milk and 
nutmeg. 

Carrageen or Irish Moss Blancmange. 

Wash in three waters half an ounce of Carrageen 
moss; drain and put it in two quarts of new milk, let 



TO KEEP SUET CURDS. 105 

it boil for a few minutes, strain it in a pitcher, wet 
the moulds, and pour it in while hot; let it stand till it 
becomes thick, when it may be eaten with sugar and 
cream, seasoned with peach or rose water, or with a 
lemon rolled in the sugar. Some prefer seasoning the 
blancmange before putting it in the moulds. It will keep 
in a cool place two days, and is better to be made the 
day before it is eaten. 

To Keep Suet for several Months. 

Chop the suet you wish to preserve until summer as 
fine as for mince pies or puddings, then add a table- 
spoonful of salt to three table-spoonsful of suet; mix 
all well together, and put it in jars. Keep it tied up 
close, as exposure to the air makes it strong. It should 
be soaked an hour before you wish to use it, to remove 
the salt taste. 

Skim Curds. 

Put to boil a gallon of sweet milk; when it fairly 
boils, pour in a quart of butter-milk; in a few minutes 
the curd will rise, which skim off and set by, to cool 
for dessert; season it a? you help to it at table, with 
cream and sugar to the taste. 

Whey Skim Curds. 

Boil the whey, and put in a pint of sour butter-milk; 
when the curds rise to the top take them off, and set 
them in a cold place; they make a nice dessert to eat 
with sugar, cream and nutmeg. 

Cheese Curds. 

Put to boii a gallon of skim milk, stir into it two 
spoonsful of rennet wine; when it turns, dip up the 
10 



106 SYRUPS. 

curds and set them away to cool ; eat them with sweet 
ened cream and nutmeg. 

Rennet Wine for cold Custards or Curds. 

Rub tlic salt from a nicely dried rennet, and cut it 
up; put it in a bottle, and fill it up with good wine. If 
care is taken to keep it tllletl uj), it will last for several 
years, to make cold custard and cheese curds. 

To Preserve Milk to use at Sea, 

To every quart of new milk put a pound of loaf- 
sugar; let it boil very slowly in an iron pot, over clear 
coals, till it is as thick as thin cream — stirring it all the 
time; pour it out in a pitcher, and stir till it is cold; 
put in bottles, cork it tight, and put sealing wax over 
the corks; it must be shaken before it is used. 



SYRUPS, ICES, &c. 



Lemon Syrup. 

Clarify a pound of loaf or Havana sugar, or if you 
wish to make a large quantity, allow half a pint of 
water to every pound of sugar, and boil it, skimming 
it when the scum arises, until it is of the consistency of 
honey; then to every pound of sugar, add an ounce of 
tartaric acid. If you do not find it sour enough, after 
it has stood two or three days, add more of the acid. 
If you like the taste of oil of lemon, add a few drops. 
A small quantity of the syrup prepared in this way, 
poured into cold water, makes a refreshing drink in 
warm weather. 



SYRUPS TINCTURE. 107 

Lemon Syrup for Seasoning. 

Pare the lemons A'eiy thin, and put the peel to boil 
in a quart of water; cover it, to keep in the flavor; put 
two pounds of loaf sugar to the peel of a dozen lemons, 
and boil it till it becomes a rich syrup; keep it corked 
up in a bottle, to season ice cream 

Syrup of Lemon Juice. 

Dissolve three pounds of loaf-sugar in three quarts 
of water, squeeze and strain lemons enough to make a 
quart of juice; boil it slowly with the water and sugar, 
and take off the scum as it rises; when it is quite 
clear, strain and bottle it. It will supply the place of 
fresh lemons when they cannot be had. 

Pine Apple Syrup. 

Pare the pine apples, cut them in pieces, and to 
three pounds of pine apple put a quart of water; cover 
it and let it boil till very soft, w^hen mash and strain it; 
to a pint of this juice put a pound of sugar, boil it till 
it is a rich syrup, and keep it corked up in bottles to 
season ice cream. 

Almond Cream. 

Take a pound of blanched almonds, and roll them 
fine with a bottle; mix them with a few drops of rose- 
water, and stir them into a quart of cream; sweeten it 
with loaf-sugar, put it in a pot over the fire, and stir it 
till it thickens. 

Tincture of Vanilla. 

Vanilla beans, well bruised, half an ounce; French 
brandy, one gill ; let it stand one week, and it will be 
fit for use. Keep it corked tight. This article will 



108 ICE CREAMS. 

keep any length of time, and is very convenient for 
seasoning ices. 

Superior Receipt for Ice Cream. 

One gallon of cream, two pounds rolled loaf-sugar, 
one tea-spoonful of oil of lemon. If for vanilla creaqi, 
use a table-spoonful of tincture of vanilla, two eggs 
beaten; mix well and freeze in tlie usual way. The 
seasoning should be well mixed with tlie sugar, before 
it is added to the cream; by this means, it will be all 
flavored alike. This has been much admired. 

Coloring for ice cream, may be made in this way: 
take of powdered cochineal, cream of tartar and pow- 
dered alum, each two drachms; of salts of tartar, ten 
grains; pour upon the powders half a pint of boiling 
water; let it stand for two hours to settle, or filter 
through paper. Use as much of this infusion as will 
give tlie desired shade. This produces a brilliant pink 
color. 

Freezing Ice Cream. 

Take a bucket of ice and pound it fine ; mix with it 
two quarts of salt; put your cream in a freezer; cover it 
close, and immerse it in the bucket; draw the ice round 
it, so as to touch every part; after it has been in a few 
minutes, put in a spoon, and stir it from tlic edge to 
the centre. When the cream is put in a mould, close 
it and move it in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon 
without waste. 

Ice Cream -with. Lemon. 

Roll two fresh lemons, in as much powdered loaf- 
sugar as will sweeten a quart of cream; if you wish 
the juice, you can put some in with more sugar; freeze 
it. A good plan is to rub the lemon on a large lump of 
sugar, and then use the sujrar in sweetening the cream. 



ICES JELLIES. 109 

Ice Cream with Fruit. 

Mix the juice of the fruit with as much sugar as 
will be wanted before you add the cream, which need 
not be very rich. 

Pokeberry Juice to Stain Ices. 

Mash and strain ripe pokeberries; to each pint of 
juice put a pound of sugar; boil them together till it 
becomes a jelly; when cold put it in a jar and tie it 
close; use a small quantity of this to stain ice cream or 

jelly. 

Isinglass Jelly. 

To one ounce of shaved isinglass, put a quart of 
water; boil it dow^n to a pint, and strain it through a 
flannel bag; add some sugar and wine; stir it and put 

it in glasses. 

Blancmange. 

Shave an ounce of isinglass, and dissolve it in boil- 
ing water; then boil it in a quart of new milk; strain 
it and sweeten it to your taste; season as you prefer, 
with rose water, cinnamon, or vanilla. 

Blancmange of Jelly, 

To one pint of calf's foot jelly, add a pint of cream, 
a little mace, and a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar; 
boil it fifteen minutes, stirring it constantly; strain 
it through a flannel bag, and when nearly cold put in a 
glass of white wine; wet your moulds with cold cream 
before putting it in. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. 

Split the feet, and soak them in cold water, four or 
five hours; wash them clean, and put them to boil in 
six quarts of water; when it has boiled down to one- 
10* 



110 RAISINS ALMONDS, ETC. 

half, strain it through a colander, and skim off all the 
fat that is on the top ; set it away to cool, and when the 
jelly is quite stiff, wipe it with a towel, to take off any 
grease that should remain ; cut it in pieces, and pare of 
the discolored parts; put it in your preserving kettle, 
witli half a pint of wine, tlie juice and peel of two lemons, 
mace and sugar to your taste, and the whites and shells 
of six eggs ; after it has boiled twenty minutes, pour in 
a little cold water, to make it settle; if any scum arises, 
take it off; let it boil five minutes longer, and take it 
off the fire; keep it covered for about an hour, when 
strain it through a bag that has been dipped in hot 
water, and put it in your glasses. 

When eggs are used in calf's foot and other jellies, 
care should be taken to have the ingredients cool. If 
tlie jelly is hot when the eggs are added, it cannot be 
clarified so well — they should only cook by heating the 
jelly after they have been diffused, by stirring them 
through it. 

Raisins in Syrup. 

Make a syrup of half a pound of sugar to a pint of 
water, boil and skim it; put in five bunches of raisins, 
and let them boil twenty minutes ; if you prefer, you 
can pick off the stems. 

To Blanch Almonds and Peach Kernels. 

Pour boiling walL-r on tJicin, which will make theia 
peel easily; either roll them with a bottle on the cake 
board or pound in a mortar, with a little loaf-sugar; 
they should not be pounded too much or they will be 
oily; peach kernels make a fine flavoring for custard, 
but as they contain prussic acid, do not use too 
manv. 



SNOW CREAM KISSES CAKES. Ill 

Snow Cream. 

Take the richest cream you can procure, season it 
witli a few drops of essence of lemon, or syrup of 
lemon peel, anrl powdered white sugar, and if you 
choose a spoonful of preserve syrup, and just as you 
send it to table, stir in light newly fallen snow till it 
is nearly as stiff as ice cream. 

Kisses. 

Beat the whites of eight eggs till they will stand 
alone ; put with them, a little at a time, a pound of 
powdered sugar ; roll a lemon in some of the sugar till 
the flavor is extracted. After it is beaten very well, 
drop it in heaps about the size of half an egg on a 
sheet of paper; smooth them over with a spoon, and 
let them be of a regular shape ; bake them in an oven 
that has been moderately heated, till they are of a pale 
brown color; do not have the oven too cool, or they 
will run together; take them from the papers carefully, 
and stick two to'gether. 



CAKE S. 



Remarks on Making and Baking Cake. 

The materials for making cake should be of the best 
quality, as your success very much depends on it. 
Flour should be dried and sifted, sugar rolled fine, 
spices pounded and sifted. Where brown sugar is 
used, it should be spread on a dish and dried before 
rolling it. I have known very good pound cake 
made with brown sugar; also jumbles, &c. Persons 



112 CAKES. 

that make their own butter sometimes use it fresh froit. 
the churn, which prevents the necessity of washing the 
sah out of it for cake, and it mixes more readily tliaii 
hard butter. Currants should be picked over, washed 
and dried; raisins should be stemmed and stoned. 
When these preparations are made the day before, it 
is a great assistance. Eggs should be fresh, or they 
will not beat light: in beating the whites, take a 
broad Hat dish, and beat them until you can hold tlie 
dish upside down; — this is a test of their lightness. 
A large bowl is best for mixing and beating cake. 
You must use your hand for mixing the sugar and but- 
ter, and as you add the other ingredients, you may 
take a large wooden spoon; beat it some time after all 
is mixed. The oven should be ready to bake imme- 
diately, as standing makes cake heavy. A brick oven 
is the most certain, — and over your pans of cake, you 
should spread several layers of newspaper, to prevent 
its browning too suddenly. Cake requires more time 
than bread : a large cake should stay in the oven from 
an hour and a half to two hours, turning and looking 
at it from time to time; when you think it is sufficiently 
baked, stick a broad bright knife in the centre; if it is 
dry and free from dough when drawn out, the cake is 
likely to be done, though sometimes this is not a cer- 
tain test, and you will have to draw a little from the 
centre of the cake with the knife. A broom straw will 
sometimes answer in a small cake instead of a knife. 
A large stone pan, with a cover, is the best for keep- 
ing cake, or a large covered bowl. 

Icing for Cake. 

Roll and sift a pound of loaf-sugar ; whip the whites 
of three eggs; put in the sugar gradually, and beat it 



CAKES. 113 

for half an hour; if it is so thick that it will not run, 
put in some rose water; let the cake be nearly cool; 
dry it m an oven that is nearly cool. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Put the white of one egg and a little rose water into 
half a pound of pulverized sugar, and beat them to- 
gether till they stand; when it is nearly light enough, 
add a few drops of lemon juice, or a small portion of 
tartaric acid, dissolved in a little water. It must be 
beaten in a bowl which has never had any thing 
greasy in it, (either cream or butter.) The cake must 
have a little flour sifted over it, and wiped off w^ith a 
towel, then cover it with a thin coat of the icing, set 
it under the stove or in a place that is a little warm, 
and let it harden; then add the second coat thicker; 
this will be perfectly white, but the first is always 
dark and has crumbs through it. 

A Rich Fniit Cake. 

Have the following articles prepared before you 
begin the cake : dry and sift four pounds of flour, four 
pounds of butter with the salt washed out, two pounds 
of loaf-sugar pounded, one ounce of nutmegs grated, 
an ounce of mace pounded; wash four pounds of 
currants; dry, pick, and rub them in flour; stone and 
cut two pounds of raisins ; slice two pounds of citron, 
blanch a pound of sweet almonds and cut them in 
very thin slices; break thirty eggs, separate the whites 
and yelks, and beat them till very light; work the 
butter with your hand till it is soft as cream; put in 
alternately the flour, sugar and eggs. When all are 
mixed m, and the cake looks very light, add the spice, 
fruit, almonds, and half a pint of brandy; set it in a 



114 CAKES. 

well heated oven to bake; when it has risen, and the 
top is beginning to brown, cover it with paper; let it 
bake four hours, and when it is nearly cool, ice it. 
This will keep a long time in a stone pan, covered 
close. 

A cheaper Fruit Cake. 

Take tour pounds of flour, three of butter, three of 
sugar, two of raisins, one of currants, two dozen eggs, 
an ounce of mace, three nutmegs, and a half pint of 
brantly; if you want it dark, put in a little molasses; 
mix the ingredients together, as the above fruit cake^ 
and bake it from two to three hours. 

Fruit or Plum Cake. 

Dry and sift a pound of flour, roll a pound of sugar, 
and beat it with a pound of butter, and the yelks of 
ten eggs well beaten; wash and dry a pound of cur- 
rants and rub them in flour; stone and cut half a 
pound of raisins, and mix in with a glass of rose 
brandy, and a grated nutmeg, or mace; when all the 
rest are well mixed together, beat up the whites of the 
eggs, and add them; bake it an hour and a half. 

Pound Cake 

Wash tlie salt from a pound of butter, and beat it 
with a pound of loaf sugar till it is as soft as cream; 
have a pound of flour silted, and beat ten eggs, tlie 
whites and yelks separately; put alternately into the 
butter and sugar the flour and eggs ; continue to beat 
till they are all in, and the cake looks light; add ^orae 
grated lemon peel, a nutmeg, and half a wine-glass of 
brandy; butter the pan, and bake it an hour; when it is 
nearly cold, ice it. If you want a very large cake, 
double the quantity. You can tell when a cake is done 



CAKES. 115 

by running in a broom-straw, or the blade of a bright 
knife; if it comes out without sticking, it is done, but 
if not, set it back. You can keep a cake a great while 
in a stone pan that has a lid to fit tight. 

White Cake. 

Beat the whites of twenty eggs; wash the salt out 
of a pound of butter; sift a pound of flour, roll a pound 
of loaf-sugar, blanch a pound of almonds; roll them 
fine with a bottle, and mix them with rose water. 

Work the butter, sugar and almonds together till 
they look like cream ; have the eggs beaten very light, 
and add them and the flour alternately till you get all 
in; beat the whole together till it is very light; have a 
pan buttered, and put it in a heated oven to bake; 
when it begins to brown, put white paper over the top; 
bake it about three hours; when it is nearly cold, pre- 
pare an icing, flavored with rose water; put it on the 
top and sides. 

Washington Cake. 

Take a pound and three-quarters of sugar, the same 
of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, eight 
eggs, a pint of milk, and mix them as a pound-cake ; 
just as it is ready to bake, dissolve a tea-spoonful of 
salceratus in a little sour cream, and stir in; season 
with nutmeg and rose brandy, or essence of lemon; 
bake it as pound cake. 

Some persons put in a tea-spoonful of lemon juice 
just before baking. 

Madison Cake. 
Take a pound and a quarter of flour, and the same 
of sugar and butter; five eggs, a pound of raisins, 
and one of currants; two glasses of wine or brandy; 



116 CAKES. 

mace, nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of salseratus, dis 
solved in a pint of new milk; bake it as pound cake. 

Indian Pound Cake. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of Indian meai 
sifted, and one-quarter of wheat flour; roll a pound of 
sugar, work into it three-quarters of a pound of but- 
ter; season with nutmeg and rose brandy; add four 
ewo-s beaten litrht; mix and bake as other pound cake. 

Rice Flour Pound Cake. 
Take seven eggs, a pound of rice flour, one of su- 
gar, and half a pound of butter; season it with rose 
water and nutmeg; mix and bake it as other pound 
cake, and ice it. 

Sponge Cake. 
Balance twelve fresh eggs with sugar, and six with 
flour; beat the eggs very light, the whites and yelks 
separately; mix aUernaiely the sugar and eggs, and 
add the grated peel of a lemon; butter a large pan, or 
several small ones; add the flour just as it is put in the 
oven, stirring it just sufliciently to mix. Beating it 
after the flour is added makes it heavy; pour it in, and 
put it to bake as soon as possible. This makes a good 
pudding, with white sauce. One-half rice flour is an 
improvement. 

Rice Sponge Cake. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of rice flour, one 
pound of white sugar, finely powdered, and ten eggs; 
beat the yelks with the sugar, the whites alone; add 
them and the flour to the yelks and sugar, a little at a 
time; season it with rose brandy and nutmeg, and bake 
it in shallow pans. 



CAKES. 



117 



Sponge Cake, in Small Pans. 

Take twelve eggs, with the weight of them in sugar, 
and the w'eight of six of them in flour; beat the yelks 
with the sugar, the whites alone; season with nutmeg 
or grated lemon peel ; put all together, adding the flour 
the last; stir it quickly after the flour is added, as it 
will make it heavy to beat it much; grease several 
smaU pans and pour it in, bdke with a quick heat, and 
they will be done in half an hour, or less, according to 
the size. They are pretty iced. 

Lemon Sponge Cake. 

Take, ten eggs, separate them, a pound of loaf-sugar, 
half a pound of flour, the grated peel of two lemons 
and the juice of one; beat the yelks with the sugar, the 
whites alone, when add them and sift in the flour by 
degrees; beat well, have your pan buttered, and bake 
with a quick heat either in a stove or dutch-oven, or a 
brick oven, the heat should not be quite so great as for 
light bread — it will bake in about an hour. 

Cup Cake. 

Take four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of 
melted butter, one of sour cream, with a tea-spoonful 
of salseratus dissolved in it, and three eggs; season it 
with brandy and nutmeg; mix and bake it as pound 
cake. 

Loaf Cake. 

Take about a pound of risen bread dough, work into 
it a tea-cup of butter, three eggs beaten, a pound of 
sugar, a nutmeg grated and a glass of brandy or wine; 
a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, should be 
added after it is w^ell beaten; half a pint of cream 
11 



il8 



CAKF.S. 



slightly warmed, with a table-spoonful ol" vinegar, antj 
a tea-spoonful of dissolved sala'ratus should be stinea 
in. just as you are ready to bake it; also sifted flour 
enough to make it tlie proper consistence; bake in a 
large pan, in a brick oven or stove, and it will require 
an hour and a quarter. 

Queen Cake. 

Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, 
and currants; wash a pound of butter, add rose water — 
beat it well — a tea-cup of cream i then mix willi it eight 
eggs, yelks and whiles beaten separately; add tlie dry 
ingredients by degrees; beat the whole an hour, bake 
in little tins, or saucers, filling only half. 

Rich Jumbles. 

Rub a pound of butter into a pound and a quarter of 
flour; beat four eggs with a ])0und and a quarter of 
sugar; when very light, mix tiiem with the butter and 
flour; mix in a glass of rose water, and a nutmeg ; roll 
tliem in rings, and bake them slowly ; sift powdered 
sugar over after they are baked. 

Common Jumbles. 

Take a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, and 
three-quarters of sugar, three eggs, a little nutmeg and 
rose brandy; mix the butter and sugar together, and 
add the flour and eggs; mould them in rings, and bake 
them slowly. 

Molasses Jumbles. 

Beat three-quarters of a pound of sugar, the same 
of butter, and three eggs together; stir in half a pint 
of molasses; add rose brandy and nutmeg, and enough 
flour to make a soft dough; roll it in rings, and bake 



CAKES. • 119 

as other jumbles. By the addition of half a pint of 
molasses and a tea-spoonful of saleeraius, you will have 
a common black cake, which maybe baked in one large 
pan. 

Jumbles for Delicate Persons. 

Roll a heaped pint of light-brown sugar, and rub it 
in two pints ot flour, half a pound of butter, and a 
dessert spoonful of cinnamon ; beat an egg, and mix it 
with half a tea-cup of rich milk (in which a very small 
lump of salseratus has been dissolved;) stir all together 
with a wine glass of rose brandy; work it well, roll 
thin and cut them out — ^bake with moderate heat. 

Cup Jumbles. 

Five tea-cups of flour, three of sugar, one heaped of 
butter, one of sweet cream, three eggs and the peel of 
one lemon grated, or nutmeg, or mace if you like ; roll 
them thin, and bake in a quick oven. 

Jackson Jumbles. 

Three tea-cups of sugar, one of butter, five of flour, 
one tea-spoonful of salaeratus in a cup of sour cream 
and two eggs ; bake in a quick oven ; season them 
with the peel of a fresh lemon grated, and half a wine- 
glass of brandy. 

Macaroons. 

Blanch a pound of almonds, beat them in a mortar, 
and put with them a little rose water to keep them 
from oiling, the white of an egg, and a large spoonful 
of flour; roll a pound of loaf-sugar, and beat the whites 
of four eggs; beat them all together; shape them on 
white paper with a spoon, and bake them on tin plates 
in a slow oven; let them be quite cold before you re- 
move them from the paper. 



120 CAKES. 

Naples Biscuit, 

Beat twelve eggs till light; add to them a pound of 
dried flour and one of powdered sugar; beat all to- 
gether till perfectly light; put in some rose water acd 
nutmeg, and bake it in small shallow pans in a mod- 
erately heated oven. 

New Year Cake. 

Mix together tliree pounds of dour, a pound and a 
half of sugar, and three-quarters of a pound of butler; 
dissolve a tea-spoonful of salaratus in enougli ne\A 
milk to wet the flour; mix them together; grate in a 
nutmeg, or the peel of a lemon; roll them out, cut 
tliem in shapes, and bake. 

Cider Cake. 

Take a pound and a half of flour, three-quarters of 
sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; dissolve a 
tea-spoonful of saltX'ratus in as much cider as will make 
it a soft dough, and bake it in shallow pans ; season 
It with spice to your taste. 

Dover Cake. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a spoonful of rose 
brandy; beat the butter and sugar together, adding the 
other ingredients, the whites of the eggs beaten sepa- 
rately; bake as pound cake. 

Jelly Cake. 

This cake can be made by the sponge, cup, or Dover 
cake recipe; have shallow tin pans or plates of the 
same size, butter them, and pour in the batter so as to 
be about half an inch thick when baked; they take but 



CAKES, 121 

a few minutes to bake of a light-brown; and as you 
take them from the oven, put them on a china plate, 
with a layer of jelly between each cake, till you have 
four or five layers; cut the cake in slices before hand 
ing it. Currant jelly is to be preferred, but quince will 
answer, or peach marmalade. 

Almond Cake. 

Ten eggs, one pound of loaf-sugar, half a pound of 
almonds, half a pound of flour, one nutmeg; beat the 
yelks first, tlien put in the sugar, beating them very 
light ; blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar, 
with rose water or the juice of a lemon ; add them al- 
ternately with the flour, and the whites of the eggs 
well beaten. If you bake in one large cake, it will re- 
quire an hour and a half in a slow oven; in small pans, 
it will take less time, and in either case, will require 
watching. 

Raised Plum Cake. 

Take three pounds of flour, and mix to it as much 
new milk as will make a thick batter, and a tea-cup of 
yeast; when it is light, beat together a pound of butter, 
a pound of sugar, and four eggs ; mix this in with a 
pound of raisins, stoned and cut, half a pound of cur- 
rants, a grated nutmeg, and a glass of rose brandy; 
bake it two hours. 

Black Cake. 

Rub a pound and a half of softened butter in three 
pounds of flour, add a pound of brown sugar, rolled 
fine, a pint of molasses, a table-spoonful of rose brandy, 
a nutmeg or some mace, four eggs well beaten, a pound 
of raisins stoned and chopped ; mix the whole well, and 
before baking add a tea-cup of sour cream with a tea- 
11* 



122 CAKES. J 

spoonful of soda dissolved in it — beat it up again, have 
the pans well buttered, and put in about three parts 
full; this quantity will make about six cakes, in bread 
pans; bake as bread and if it brown too much, put 
paper on it, if it seems too stiff, add a little more 
molasses or cream. It will keep several weeks in cold 
weather. 

Bunns, 

Take a pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of 
butter, and tliree-quarters of a pound of sugar, six eggs, 
half a pound of currants, half a nutmeg, a glass of 
brandy, and a pint of new milk; mix all well together, 
and put in ludf a tea-cup of yeast; let it rise, and when 
hght, bake it in shallow pans. 

Butter-milk Cakes. 

One pound of sugar, a (juarter of a pound of buttei, 
three eggs, a tea-cup of butter-milk, nutmeg or cinna- 
mon to taste; add as much flour as will make a dough 
that will roll out; cut in round cakes and bake with a 
quick heat. 

A Composition Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, half a pound of 
butter, six eggs, two and a half wine-glasses of milk, 
one tea-spoonful of soda and one of tartaric acid; 
warm the milk and butter; add the sugar, then the 
yelks of the eggs beaten light, then the whites and the 
flour alternately, then the soda, (to be dissolved in half 
a wine-glass of water;) season with nutmeg, mace, or 
a little essence of lemon, and add lastly, the tartaric 
acid, dissolved in half a wine-glass of water. Bake 
it one hour in an oven, as hot as is usual for bread; , 
when brown at the top, cover it with paper. A pound 
of dried currants is an agreeable addition. 



CAKES. 123 

Gringer Cup-cake. 

Three cups of flour, one of sugar, one of molasses, 
one of butter, a table-spoonful of ginger, one tea- 
spoonful of salffiratus, and three eggs; bake in pans. 
A pound of stoned and chopped raisins is an im- 
provement. 

Light Ginger-bread. 

Take three cups of molasses, five of flour, one of 
sugar, three eggs, and a tea-spoonful of salaeratus, dis- 
solved in a cup of sour cream ; work the sugar with a 
quarter of a pound of butter; beat two dozen cloves, 
and put in with two table-spoonsful of ^nger; mix all 
together, and bake in shallow pans or cups. 

Crisp Ginger-cake. 

Take three pounds of flour, one of sugar, and one 
of butter; mix these together with three table-spoons- 
ftd of ginger, some cloves and aniseseed, and wet it 
with molasses; roll it thin; cut it in shapes, and bake 
with a quick heat. 

Ginger-bread Nuts. 

Take a pound and a half of flour, three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar, the same of butter, some cloves and 
cinnamon pounded fine, and an ounce of ginger; mix 
these well together, and make it into a stiff dough, 
with molasses; roll it thin, and cut it in small cakes. 

Crullers. 
Take two pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of butter, six eggs, and some 
mace or nutmeg; mix the flour, sugar and butter to- 



124 CAKES, 

gether, and wet it ^vith the eggs ; if too stiff, put in 
some cream, roll the dough thin; cut it in shapes, and 
fry them in boiling lard. The more lard there is, the 
less they will soak it up. 

Rusk. 

Take a quart of milk, a tea-cup of cream, half a 
pound of lard, quarter of a pound of butter, a spoonful 
of salt, and boil them together; beat well two eggs 
w'ith a pound of sugar, and pour the boiling milk on 
them gradually, stirring all the time; when nearly cold, 
add a tea-cup of yeast, and Hour suthcient to make a 
stiff batter; when quite light, knead it up as bread, and 
let it lighten again before moulding out; when they are 
moulded out, wet tliem over with sugar and cream, 
and let them rise a few minutes and bake them; grate 
a little sugar over when they come out of the oven. 

RuBk for Drying. 

Boil a quart of milk, and put in it half a pound of 
butter, and a little salt; when nearly cold, stir in a tea- 
cup of yeast, a pound of sugar, and flour to make a 
batter; when it is light, knead it up with flour, and let 
it rise again; grease your pans, and make it out in 
cakes, about the size of a tea-cup, and an inch thick; 
j)ut two layers in each pan, and bake them three- 
quarters of an hour; when take them out, break them 
apart, and put the top ones in other pans, and let them 
dry slowly in the oven for an hour or more. 

This rusk will keep for months, and is very useful 
in sickness, to make panada; it is also good for 
delicate persons that rich cake disagrees with, or to 
take on a journey. Nutmeg or mace to your taste. 

If you like it richer, two eggs may be put in. 



CAKES. 125 

Bread Rusk. 

Take as much lightened dough, as would make a 
loaf of bread, spread it open, and put in a tea-cup of 
sugar, some nutmeg and a piece of butter; work it 
well, mould it out, and bake it with your bread; wet 
the top with sugar and cream before it goes in the 
oven. 

Dough-nuts. 

Boil a quart of new milk and melt in it half a pound 
of butter; beat three eggs with two pounds of sugar, 
and pour on them the boiling milk, stirring all the time; 
when it is nearly cold, stir in a tea-cup of yeast, a 
spoonful of salt, and flour enough to make a stiff batter; 
when this is quite light, knead in flour to make a soft 
dough, two grated nutmegs and a little mace; let it 
rise again till it is very light; roll it out thin, cut it in 
shapes, and fry them in hot lard; dust over cinnamon 
and loaf-sugar, pounded fine, while they are hot. 

Common Dough-nuts. 

Pour a pint of boiling water into a pint of new milk, 
put in a quarter of a pound of lard, and a table-spoon- 
ful of salt; stir in a tea-cup of yeast and flour to make 
a stiff" batter; let it rise, and when very light put in 
two pounds of light-brown sugar, two nutmegs, and 
enough flour to make a soft dough ; work it well and 
let it rise again till it is very light; roll out and fry as 
other dough-nuts. 



126 PRESEKVES AND JELLIES. 

PRESERVES, JELLIES, &c. 



To Clarify Sugar. 
To every four pounds of sugar put a quart of water 
and tlie whites of two eggs ; if you put in the egg after it 
gets hot, it will cook before it has the desired effect ; 
when it comes to a boil, and the scum rises, pour in a 
little cold water; let it boil up ; take it off to settle, and 
skim it well ; let it boil up, and skim it three times, 
wliLii it will be fit to preserve with. You should 
always clarify white Havana sugar. 

Apples. 

Apples should be preserved in November, and they 
will keep till June. Take firm pippins, pare them and 
take out the cores, leaving them whole; or after you 
liave cored them, cut them across in two pieces, they 
will then be in rings; put them in cold water as fast as 
they are pared, to keep them from turning dark; make 
a syrup of a pound of loaf-sugar, and half a pint of 
water to each pound of apples; wipe the apples, and 
put in as many as will go in, without one laying on 
another; let them boil swiftly till they look clear, then 
take them up carefully on dishes, and put in some 
more; when all are done, if the syrup should seem too 
thin, boil it up after the apples are taken out; cut the 
peel of several lemons in thin rings, boil them in a lit- 
tle water till they are soft, and throw them in the syrup 
after the apples are taken out; put the syrup in a bowl, 
and set all away till the next day, when put the apples 
in glass jars or large bowls, spread tlie lemon peel 
about them and [)ut the syrup on tiie top; paste several 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 127 

thicknesses of paper over, and set them in a dry cool 
closet. 

If you only want the apples to keep a few weeks, 
they may be done with half a pound of sugar to a 
pound of apples, and will look and taste quite as well. 

Apples with Brown Sugar, 

Pare and halve your apples, either pippins, red- 
streaks or wine-saps; make a syrup of light-brown 
sugar, allowing half a pound to a pound of the fruit; 
after boiling and clarifying the syrup, pour it over the 
fruit, and set it by for two days, then cook them, and 
seasoned with green ginger root they are excellent; 
they will not require much cooking, and should be of 
a light-brown color. 

Crab Apples. 
Put the crab apples in a kettle with grape leaves in 
and around them, with some alum ; keep them at scald- 
ing heat lor an hour, take them out, skin them, and 
take out the seeds with a small knife, leaving on the 
stems ; put them in cold water, make a syrup of a 
pound of sugar to a pound of apples ; wipe the apples 
and put them in ; let them stew gently till they look 
clear; take them out, and let the syrup boil longer. 

Currants. 

Make a syrup of one pint of currant juice to three 
pounds of sugar; if it is brown sugar, put in the white 
of an egg to clarify it; let it boil and skim it; have 
three pounds of currants picked and stemmed; put 
them in the syrup, and let them boil slowly, about 
twenty minutes; take them up and let the syrup boil 
longer. 



128 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Pine Apples. 
Pare and slice the pine apples, and make a syrup of 
a pound of sugar and half a pint of water to a pound 
of fruit; clarify and skim it, then put in the apples and 
let them cook gently for half an hour; if you do not 
want to keep them long, much less sugar will do. 

Blackberries. 

Allow a pint of currant juice and a pint of water to 
six pounds of blackberries; give them their weight in 
brown sugar ; let them boil till they appear to be done, 
and the syrup is rich. Blackberry jelly can be made 
as currant jelly, and is good for sick children, mixed 
with water. 

Blackberry Flummery. 

Stew tliree pints of blackberries with one pint of 
sugar — soak a tea-cup full of ground rice — and when 
the berries have been stewing about fifteen minutes, 
stir in the rice, and stir the whole time until it becomes 
tliick. This should be eaten cold with cream, and 
will keep two days. 

Cherries. 

To preserve four pounds of cherries, take one pint 
of currant juice, into which put five pounds of sugar; 
when this boils uj), take off any scum that rises, and 
put in half of tiie cherries, with part of each stem on; 
when they look so clear that you can see the stone, 
they are done ; take these up on a dish and put in the 
rest, and let them do slowly the same length of time; 
take them up and let the syrup boil a few minutes 
longer; do not put them in the jars till they are quite 
cold. Glass jars are the best to keep all early fruits 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 129 

in, as you can then see if they begin to ferment; if 
they do, you must boil them over; always put them in 
a window where they will be exposed to the sun. 

Common Cherries. 

Stone the light-colored common cherries, and to 
every pound of fruit, allow a pound of sugar, which 
boil up with the juice; after you have skimmed it, 
throw in the cherries, and let them boil till the syrup 
is rich. 

Cherries for Common Use. 

Stone twelve pounds of morel cherries; allow half a 
pound of brown sugar to each pound of fruit, after it 
is stoned; let them cook slowly for two hours; examine 
them through the summer, and if they show any signs 
of fermentation, set them in a brick-oven, after the 
bread is done, or in a dutch-oven of hot water, which 
keep at boiling heat for an hour. 

It is a good plan to know the weight of your pre- 
serving kettle, as you can then weigh the fruit in it, 
with a pair of steelyards. 

Apricots, 

Pour boiling water on the apricots and wipe them 
dry; then cut them in half and take out the stone; 
make a syrup of their weight in sugar, and a little 
water; when this has boiled, put in the fruit, and let it 
cook slowly till it is clear, and the syrup is rich. 

Gringer. 

Scrape the outside from the green ginger, and boil 

it in a little water, till it is soft; then take it out, and 

scrape off any spots that are on it; make a syrup of half 

a pint of water to a pound of sugar and a pound of 

12 



130 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

ginger; let it boil slowly about half an hour; take it up 
and boil the syrup a little longer. 

Green Gage Plums. 

Take an equal quantity ot" fruit and sugar, pour boil- 
ing water on the plums, and wipe tliem dry; stick their, 
over with a pin; make a syrup of the sugar and some 
water, and wiien it boils, put in half of the plums; let 
them do slowly till they are clear, then take them out 
and put in tiie rest; if the syrup should be thin, let it 
boil longer. Do not put them in the jars till the next 
day. Egg plums may be done in the same way. 

Green Lemons. 

Take the young lemons, cut tiiem in half, scrape 
them, and take out the pulp; cut them in such shapes 
as you please; put them in a preserving kettle and 
cover them with water; put in a little alum to green 
them, and let them boil till they are transparent, then 
take them out and drain tliem on a cloth ; give tlie 
kettle another cleansing, and put them in with their 
weight in sugar ; let them stew gently, but be careful 
that they do not boil; let them cook till the syrup is 
rich. 

Raspberries. 

Boil three pounds of raspberries in a pint of currant 
juice, for ten minutes; put in four pounds of sugar, and 
let them boil half an hour, or until it is a jelly. Paste 
paper over the jar. 

Citron Melon, 

Pare the melon and cut it in slices half an inch thick, 
witliout the seeds; let it lay in salt and water for an 
hour, then wash the salt off, and boil it in strong 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 131 

ginger tea; make a thin syrup and boil it again, then 
make a syrup of a pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of 
citron, and boil it in this till it is clear; season it with 
mace and lemon peel. 

Water-melon Rinds. 

Cut the rinds in any form you please ; put them in 
strong salt and v/ater, with cabbage leaves over and 
around them, and set them in a warm place till they 
become yellow; then wash them, and put them in a 
kettle wnth alum and water, and grape or cabbage 
leaves over and through them; set them on the fire, 
and keep it at scalding heat for two hours — ^but do not 
let them boil. If they are not of a fine green color, 
change the w^ater and leaves; w^hen they are green 
enough, put them in cold soft water for three days, 
changing the water twice a day; then make a syrup 
of rather more than a pound of sugar to a pound of 
melon, some sliced ginger, the peel of a lemon, and 
a little mace; let them boil slowly fifteen minutes, 
take them up, and boil them again at the end of a 
week. 

Cantelopes, Cucumbers, or Melons. 

Take young water-melons, cucumbers or cante- 
lopes ; scrape the melons, and cut the rinds in shapes — 
leave the cucumbers whole; put them in a preserving 
kettle with alum and water; cover them, and let them 
boil till they are transparent; take them out, wash 
them in cold water, and wipe each piece separately; 
have your kettle nicely cleaned, and give them rather 
more than their weight in sugar; put a layer of sugar, 
and a layer of melon, some slices of green ginger, and 
the rind and juice of a lemon; let them stew over the 



132 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

fire till the syrup is rich; take them up, and stew them 
over again in about a week. 

Cranberries. 

To preserve cranberries, allow them their weight in 
sugar; make a syrup of the proportions of half a pint 
of water to two pounds of tlie sugar; boil and skim 
it before you put the fruit in; then let them boil until 
clear. To make sauce to eat with roast fowls, put 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 

Gooseberries. 

Take tiic large gooseberries, pick off the stems and 
blossoms, give them their weight in sugar; put them 
in the kettle alternately, with the sugar, and pour over 
them a pint of water to four pounds of fruit; let them 
boil gently till the scum arises; when this is taken ofiT, 
let them cook faster; when clear, take them up on 
dishes, and boil the syrup longer. 

Peaches. 
Have sweet, white clingstone peaches — pare and 
stone them; to each pound, take a pound of sugar 
made in a syrup, put the peaches in, and when tliey 
look clear, take them up on dishes; let the syrup boil 
longer. 

A New Mode of Preserving Peaches. 
Pare, halve and weigh the peaches; put them in a 
preserving kettle of boiling water, and to six pounds 
of peaches, put a tea-spoonful of soda or pearl-ash; 
let them boil one minute; then take them out, and 
throw them in cold water; scrape off the black scum 
which adheres to the peaches; wipe and lay them on 
a dish; have the kettle cleaned, and put the peaches in 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 133 

layers, with half their weight in sugar; they will not 
require any water; let them cook slowly at first, then 
boil till clear — when take them out, and let the syrup 
boil till it becomes rich. The flavor of the peach is 
retained, and they are not so sweet as in the old way. 

Damsons. 

Weigh out as much sugar as you have fruit; if it is 
brown you must clarify it ; put a pint of water to three 
pounds of sugar, make a syrup, wash the damsons, 
put them in and let them cook slowly for half an hour; 
then take them out on dishes, and let them dry in the 
sun for two days, taking them in the house at night; 
boil the syrup half an hour after the fruit is taken out; 
when done in this way they will be whole and clear. 
You can make a jam by boiling them slowly for two 
hours; or a jelly as currants. 

To Preserve Strawberries. 

Gather the strawberries in the mid-day, pick out the 
largest and best, stem them, and to each pound of 
strawberries put a pound of loaf-sugar and a glass of 
white wine; let them stand four or five hours; take off 
the syrup so as not to mash the fruit, and clarify it ; 
then put in the strawberries, and to each pound put 
as much fine alum as will lay on the blade of a pen- 
knife; let them boil up several times, and shake them 
round in the kettle, but do not stir them with a spoon, 
as that will mash them; a few minutes boiling is suffi- 
cient; after you take out the fruit, let the syrup boil up, 
and when it is nearly cold pour it over them in the jar; 
put a piece of white paper over the top, and pour a 
spoonful of brandy on it; paste several thicknesses of 
paper over the jar. 
12* 



134 PRESERVES AXD JELLIES. 

If you like your preserved strawberries, cherries, or 
peaches, to have a fine pale color, allow them to boii 
half the time recommended in the receipt, then spread 
the fruit thin on dishes, with but little syrup, pour the 
rest of the syrup also on dishes, and set them daily in 
the sun; if the weather be clear and tlie sun hot, four 
days will be sufficient. Preserves done in this manner 
do not ferment. You should spread a piece of gauze 
or netting over them to keep out insects or dust. 

ANOTHER WAV. 

To each pound of the fruit take a pound of crushed 
sugar; put them in the preserving kettle, a layer of 
sugar and a layer of fruit; let them stand a little while 
to make syrup before putting them over the fire; they 
should boil fast for twenty minutes; watch them all 
the time, taking off the scum as it rises; stir them gen- 
tly without mushing the berries; put them in jars, put 
brandy papers over them and paste or tie them close. 
Preserves should never be put in jars that have had 
pickles in them. 

Tomatoes. 

Take solid round tomatoes, scald and peel them; 
give tliem their weight in sugar; put a layer of sugar 
and of tomatoes alternately; let them boil slowly till the 
syrup forms, then boil faster, till clear, and the syrup is 
rich; season with lemon peel, ginger or mace; some 
prefer the yellow tomato for preserving. 

Quinces. 

Pick out the finest quinces, pare them, and cut them 
in halves, or in rings; take the best of the parings and 
the seed, and boil thern in water till they are very soft; 
strain the liquor, and have the kettle cleaned again; 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 135 

wash and weigh the quinces, and give them their weight 
in sugar ; put the sugar in the water the parings were 
boiled in — skim it, and put in the quinces; let them 
boil very slowly till clear; take them up on dishes, and 
boil the syrup longer. 

Green Peppers, 

Get peppers that have a sweet taste ; take out the 
seeds, leaving on the stems ; lay them in salt and water 
for three days, changing the water each day; then put 
them in a kettle with leaves around them, and a small 
piece of alum; let them scald, but not boil, for two 
hours; take them out, and let them lay in water three 
days, changing it twice each day; then boil them in 
sugar and water fifteen minutes; then make a syrup, 
allowing them their weight in sugar, and boil them 
gently in it half an hour; take them out and boil the 
syrup longer. 

Pumpkin. 

Choose a fine-grained, high-colored pumpkin, fully 
ripe; cut it in thin slices, about four inches long and 
two wide ; to two pounds of pumpkin, put two pounds 
of sugar in a bowl; cut the peel of two lemons in rings, 
and squeeze the juice over the pumpkin; let it stand 
all night; the next day put it on to preserve with two 
tea-cups of water; let it cook gently till the pumpkin 
seems clear and crisp ; take it up, scald the lemon peel, 
and boil it in the syrup ; cool it on dishes, and put it 
in a jar. 

Green Fox-grape Jelly. 

Fill a kettle with grapes, and let them boil with a 
pint of water till the skins burst; mash and strain them; 
put a pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and let it boil 
half an hour. Ripe fox-grapes may be made into very 



136 PBESERVES AyO JKLLIES. 

nice jelly in the same way, and is very good to drin^ 
in sickness, mixed with water. 

Pears. 

Pare and core the fruit, but leave the stems on; put 
them in a syrup of a pound of sugar, and a half a pinl 
of water to a pound of pears, with some green ginger 
or lemon peel; boil tlie syrup half an hour after the)' 
are done. 

Ripe Fox-grape Jam, 

To two quarts of grapes, allow three pounds of brown 
sugar, and a pint of water; have the grapes picked 
over and wasiietl; put tiiem all together and let them 
boil more than an iiour; take them up on shallow 
dishes, and pick out as many seeds as you can with a 
spoon. This makes a good common preserve when 
other fruits are scarce; they are also very good for 
pies. 

Currant Jelly. 

Pick the leaves from the currants and fill your kettle 
with them; put a tea-cup of water to keep them from 
sticking; cover them with a plate and let them boil 
slowly half an hour; take them out, and strain liiem 
through a flannel bag; to every pint of juice put a 
pound of loaf-sugar; let it boil till it is a thick jelly, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes, and put it in 
tumblers or jars. 

Lemon Butter or French Honey. 

Take half a pound of butter, melt it in an earthen 
dish and squeeze in the juice of six lemons; beat 
twelve eggs with two pounds of brown sugar, stir 
it in with the rind of two lemons grated, mix it all 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 137 

together, and let it boil twenty minutes, when it will be 
about the consistence of honey; the flavor is agreea- 
ble, and it may be eaten on bread, or as a sauce for 
boiled pudding. 

Currant Syrup. 

Prepare the currants as for jelly; to every pint of 
juice put a pint of water and a pound of sugar ; let it 
boil half an hour and skim it well; if the flavor of the 
raspberry is preferred, it may be added in the propor- 
tion of one pint of it, to four of currant juice. It is a 
very pleasant drink mixed with water in warm weather. 

Quince Jelly. 

Wash and wipe the quinces ; cut them in small pieces, 
and take out the seeds carefully; have your kettle 
cleaned and half full of water; throw the quinces and 
seeds in till you get it full; cover them over, and let 
them boil till very soft; mash them well and strain them; 
to every pint of juice put a pound of sugar; clean the 
kettle again, pour in the juice and sugar, and let it boil 
till it forms a jelly; it should be put into tea-cups, if 
you want it to turn out whole, with brandy papers on 
the top, and pasted over. It is a nice jelly to use 
with whips or trifle. 

Apple Jelly. 

Pare and quarter a preserving kettle full of pippin 
apples ; cover them with water, and lay a plate close 
over them ; let them boil until perfectly soft, taking the 
plate off" to skim them ; spread a coarse thin cloth over 
a large bowl; pour the apples on the cloth, and let the 
juice run through, without sqeezing; hold the towel 
by the corners, and move it gently; take three-quarters 
of a pound of loaf-sugar to a pint of the juice, and boil 



138 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

it fast, skimming it, until it becomes jelly, which will 
be in from ten to fifteen minutes; pour it in tumblers 
or glass jars, and when quite cold, paste them over: 
this will keep a year. Red-streak apples make a fine 
red jelly, boiled with the skins on them. If you have 
currant or graj)e jelly tliat has candied, they can be 
restored by making some apple syrup, and mixing it 
hot; it will not require any more sugar — about one- 
tliird apple juice; let it boil a few minutes. Very 
sweet preserves that have candied can be improved ])y 
this process. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Apples make a very good marmalade when other 
fruits are scarce, and can be done at any time through 
the fall, or winter; pare the apples, cut them up, and 
put them to boil, with some water and green ginger 
scraped, and tied up in :i bng; after they have boiled 
an hour, take out the ginger, and put in half a pound 
of sugar to one of fruit; let it cook an hour longer. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Take soft yellow pcaclas, pare them, and cut them 
in quarters; give them their weight in sugar; put the 
peaches in the preserving kettle with a pint of water, 
witliout the sugar, and let them boil till they are well 
cooked, covered over with a plate; when done, mash 
them in the kettle till very fine, and stir in the sugar; 
let diem cook slowly an hour, or they may be finished 
in a stone jar in the oven, or set in a stove boiler, and 
the water ki'pt boiling all the time; they are not then so 
likely to burn as when finished over the fire; they will 
do with less sugar, if they are dried in the sun two days 
previous to preserving. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 139 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Pare and quarter the peaches, and to eight pounds 
of peaches, allow five pounds of sugar; put them on, 
^ugar and peaches at once, mixing them through; let 
them stew slowly until a syrup forms, when they may 
cook pretty fast for several hours, without once stirring; 
tlien take them up, and mash them well; if the marma- 
lade is not thick enough, spread it on dishes, and dry 
in your oven after the bread is taken out. Quinces 
and apples may be done in the same way. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Pare the quinces and cut them up fine ; put the par- 
ings and cores to boil; then strain them; put in the 
quinces, and let them boil till soft- — when mnsh them 
fine, and put in three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit; let them cook gently for two hours, 
and take them up in pint bowls ; when cold, put brandy 
papers on the top of each, and paste them over; they 
will turn out whole to put on table. 

Marmalade of Mixed Fruits, 

Pare equal quantities of peaches, apples, pears and 
quinces; cut them fine, and put them to boil with a 
pint of water to six pounds of fruit; let them cook 
tlioroughly, but do not let them burn; take them out, 
and mash them well ; clean the kettle, and put them 
back, with half their weight in sugar; let tliem cook 
very slowly for two hours. 

Lemon Marmalade. 

Soak the peel of lemons that have been left after 
making lemonade, changing the water twice a day 
for three days, to extract the bitter; boil them till 



140 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

soft, tlien mash and put in enough sugar to make it 
pleasant to the taste; stew it a short time after Uie 
sugar is put in; put it in a bowl, and when cold, cut 
it in slices for the table ; it will keep several weeks. 

To Consei-ve Pears, 

Have the nicest pears you can get, pare them, and 
leave on the stems ; take half a pound of loaf-sugar to 
a pound of pears; put tliem in the kettle together, with 
water enough to moisten the sugar; if the pears are very 
juicy, they will not need any; cover them over with a 
plate, and let them boil very gently for two hours; take 
tJiem out on dishes, and boil the syrup to jelly, and 
put it away by itself; set the pears in the sun, or in a 
moderately heated oven ; when quite dry, sprinkle them 
with loaf-sugar, and put them away in glass jars. 

Peaches in Cider. 

Scald and wi[)L' the jjcaches; cut them from tlie 
stone, and dry them in the sun two days; boil a gallon 
of sweet cider half away; })ut in the peaches, and let 
them stew slowly till done; they will keep without any 
sugar, but you can put some in, if you wish them 
sweeter. 

Pears can be kept in the same way. 

Peaches, &c. in Brandy. 

Take fresh yellow peaches, or large clingstones, pour 
boiling water on them, and wipe off the down; make 
a syrup of half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, 
and boil and skim it; put in the peaches, and let them 
cook for fifteen minutes; take them up without any 
syrup, and cool them on dishes; boil the syrup down 
to half, and put an equal quantity of peach or French 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 141 

brandy; pour this over the peaches after they are 
in jars. 

Plums or cherries may be done in the same way. 

Grapes in Brandy. 

Put some close bunches of grapes, not too ripe, in a 
jar, and prick each one with a needle; strew over 
them half their weight in pounded rock candy, and fill 
up the jar with brandy. 

To Conserve Peaches. 

Take the yellow peaches, pare them, and cut them 
from the stone in one piece; to six pounds of peaches 
have two pounds of sugar; make a syrup of three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, and a little water; put them 
in, and let them stay till they are quite clear; then take 
them up carefully on a dish, and set them in the sun to 
dry; pound the sugar fine, and strew over them, turn- 
ing them over to let each part have some; do not put 
much on at a time, and if any syrup is made, remove 
them to fresh dishes; when they are suflSciently dry, 
lay them lightly in a jar, with a little sugar between 
each layer. 

If the peaches are sweet clings, three pounds of sugar 
to twelve of peaches will be enough, if you dry them a 
day in the sun before they are stewed. 

Sauce of Cherries, or Damsons. 

Allow half a pound of brown sugar to every pound 
of fruit, and to each seven pounds a pint of molasses, 
and one of strong vinegar ; let them cook slowly, so as 
not to break the skins; take them up in ajar; put in a 
few cloves, let the syrup boil longer, and pour it 
over. 

13 



142 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Frosted Fruit. 

Take large ripe cherries, apricots, plums or grapes; 
if cherries, cut off half of the stem; have in one dish 
some white of an eg^r beaten, and in another some 
powdered loaf-sugar; take the fruit, one at a time, ana 
roll tliem first in the egg, and then in tlie sugar; lay 
them on a sheet of white paper in a sieve, and set it 
on the top of a stove or near a fire till the icing is 
hard. 

Grapes for Pies. 

After the first frost, pick the wild grapes, and put 
them in a jar, free from stems; fill it with boiling mo- 
lasses, and tie it up close; set it on a hot hearth, or on 
the top of a stove, in a pan of water, for several days. 
These are very useful to make common pies in the 
winter. 

Green Tomatoes for Pies. 

Pick the green tomatoes before they are much frosted; 
scald them and take off the skins; put them in your 
kettle and let them boil for half an hour; cut them up, 
and put in a pound of sugar to three pounds of toma- 
toes, and let tliem cook for half an hour longer; season 
them with the juice and peel of a lemon, and put them 
away in jars. They make very good pies in the winter, 
and resemble gooseberries. 

Conserve of Roses, 

Gather the leaves of the damask rose, while they are 
fresh; spread a pound of loaf-sugar on your cake-board, 
and roll in about half a pound of rose leaves, or as 
many as will work into it, have your kettle cleaned, 
and stew them in it very gently for about half an hour; 
put it in tumblers to use when you have a cough. It 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 143 

is very good for children that are threatened with the 
croup ; yo i should have some by the side of the bed to 
use at night. 

To keep Damsons for Pies. 

To every twelve pounds of damsons take seven 
pounds of brown sugar; put them together in a stone 
jar, a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar; tie it up 
close, and set it in a heated oven; let it stay till it is 
cold, and continue to set it in, after every baking, for 
several weeks ; or you can cook them on the top of a 
stove, in a pan of hot water. 

Dried Cherries, &c. 

Dried cherries should be kept in a jar, wuth sugar 
sprinkled among them; they are very useful in sick- 
ness; a tea-cupful of cherries, with a quart of boiling 
water poured on them, and left to draw for lialf an 
hour, with sw^eetening, makes a very agreeable drink 
when you cannot get lemonade. 

When stewed for pies you should allow them plenty 
of water, and not put in the sugar till they are nearly 
done. 

Boiling water poured on dried apples also makes a 
good drink in sickness. 

Apple Butter, 

With Remarks on the Use of EarlTien Vessels. 

Have your kettle well cleaned, and fill it early in the 
morning with cider made of sound apples, and just 
from the press; let it boil half away, which may be 
done by three o'clock in the afternoon; have pared and 
cut enough good apples to fill the kettle; put them in a 
clean tub, and pour the boiling cider over; then scour 



144 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

the kettle and put in the apples and cider, let tliem boil 
briskly till the apples sink to the bottom; slacken the 
fire and let them stew, like preserves, till ten o'clock at 
night. Some dried quinces stewed in cider and put in 
are an improvement. Season with orange peel, cin- 
namon or cloves, just before it is done; if you like it 
sweeter, you can put in some sugar an hour before it is 
done. If any thing occur that you cannot finish it in 
a day, pour it in a tub, and finish it the next day; when 
it is done put it in stone jars. Any tiling acid should 
not be put in eartlien vessels, as the glazing is poison- 
ous. This way of making apple butter requires but 
little stirring; you must keep a constant watch that it 
docs not burn. 

Pears and peaches may be done in the same way, and 
if they are sweet, will not require sugar. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

It is important to have a large copper or bell-metal 
kettle, into which put the cider as soon as it comes from 
the press; put it over a brisk fire, and boil it half away; 
then put the cider from the kettle into clean stone jars, 
(warm the jars to prevent the danger of breaking 
them;) have your apples pared and cut over night, as 
in.iny as would fill your kettle twice; have the kettle 
well cleaned, and in the morning put in half the cider, 
and fill the kettle nearly full of apples, and put it over 
a brisk fire; when they begin to boil up, stir them 
down, which may be done two or three times, before 
you put in your stick to stir constantly; then put 
in the rest of the apples and cider, as fast as the ket- 
tle will take them, and boil it four hours after the last 
apples are put in, stirring it all the time; you should 
have for the purpose a stick made of hickory wood, 
somewhat like a common hoe, with holes in it. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 145 

Candied Preserves, &c. 

If your preserves candy, set the jars in hot water for 
balf an hour; if they are in glass jars put them in some- 
thing else, as glass cracks easily, when exposed to 
heat. Preserves made with white Havana sugar are not 
so liable to candy as others. Common preserves are 
improved, and are more certain to keep well, by being 
placed on flat dishes and set in a brick-oven after the 
bread is taken out: they may remain two or more hours 
without injury. When preserves are about to boil 
over, you should have a common fan at hand and fan 
them, which will sometimes answer instead of taking 
them from the fire. 

Cider Marmalade. 

Boil two gallons of sweet cider down to one gallon; 
have ready two gallons of apples, pared and cut ; pour 
the cider out of the kettle, and clean it; then put in the 
apples, and pour the cider in, and two or three pounds 
of sugar; if it will not hold all conveniently, add at 
intervals ; let them stew four hours ; do not stir till they 
are nearly done — stirring makes fruit stick to the kettle 
and burn; if you stir once you must keep on. This is a 
pleasant sauce for dinner, or eaten with bread and 
butter at tea, and will keep in a cool place through the 
winter. 

Tomato Figs. 

Take six pounds of sugar, to one peck (oi sixteen 
pounds) of ripe tomatoes — the pear-shaped look best ; 
put them over the fire {without peeling) in your pre- 
serving kettle, their own juice being sufficient without 
the addition of water; boil them until the sugar pene- 
trates and they are clarified They are then taken out, 
13* 



146 PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

spread on dishes, flattened and dried in the sun, or in a 
brick-oven after the bread is taken out. A smaU 
quantity of the syrup should be occasionally sprinkled 
over them whilst drying; after which, pack them down 
in jars, sprinkling each layer with powdered sugar. 
The syrup is afterwards concentrated and bottled for 
use. They retain surprisingly their flavor, which is 
asrreeable and somewhat similar to tlie best fio^s. Or- 
dinary brown sugar may be used, a large portion of 
which is retained in syrup. 

Molasses Candy or Taffy. 

Put a ((uart of gdod molasses (not sugar house) in 
a dutch-oven or iron i)ot, having previously greased it 
with butter; let it boil very fast, stirring it all tlie time 
for fifteen minutes; then put in a tea-cup of sugar and 
let it boil fifteen minutes longer, stirring all the time; 
take a little out on a plate, and when it is brittle, pour 
it while hot into tin plates rubbed with butter; put it in 
a cold place and break it up when you want it for use; 
never put tafify in china or earUien plates, as they would 
probably be broken in taking it out. Some think it 
an improvement to add the kernels of black walnuts, 
nicely picked — put them in just as you take up tlie tafly 
and give it one stir; a tea-cup of kernels to a pint 
of molasses is a good proportion. 

Walnut Cheese. 

Take a pint of nice kernels and pound them in a 
mortar with two tea-cups of brown sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of water; put it in cups or small bowls and it 
will turn out like other cheese. It is a favorite re- 
freshment with some country children. 



147 



CORDIALS. WINES, VINEGAR, 
PICKLES, &c. 



Peach Cordial, 

Put a gallon of peach brandy into a wide-mouthed 
vessel, and five pounds of fine flavored peaches, cut 
from the stone; boil five pints of water with two pounds 
of loaf-sugar and a pound of peaches, till it is a clear 
and rich syrup; pour this boiUng hot on the brandy 
and stir it well; put in two dozen peach kernels, 
blanched and pounded, and a little mace; let it stand 
three weeks covered tight — at the end of which time, 
botde it for use. It is a nice seasoning for cake. 

Quince Cordial. 

Grate the quinces and strain them; to every quart 
of juice, put a pound of loaf-sugar and a pint of spirits; 
boil, strain and bottle it. 

Cherry Cordial, 

Mash and strain the cherries,, boil the juice, and to a 
gallon, put two pounds of sugar, and half a pint of 
spirits ; the sugar should be boiled in it ; skim and 
strain; when cold, botde it. 

Lemon Brandy, 

Have a bottle three-quarters full of brandy ; when 
you use lemons for other purposes, pare off the yellow 
skin very thin, cut it small and drop it in the bottle, 
till you get it full. Be careful not to put in any of the 
tough white part, as that will give it a bitter taste; cork 
the bottle and keep it to season cakes and puddings. 



148 CORDIALS ROSE WATKR COLOGNE, 

Rose Brandy, 
Fill a large bottle with damask rose leaves, picked 
while they are fresh; fill the bottle with brandy, or 
good spirits of any kind; cork it tightly and set it away 
for use. It will bear filling up several times. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Mash and strain the blackberries; put the juice on to 
boil in a brass or bell-mttal kettle; skim it well, and 
to each g;dlon of juice put three pounds of sugar and a 
quart of spirits; bruise some cloves and put in. This 
is valuable as a medicine for children in summer. 

Rose Water. 

Gather the damask rose leaves; have a tin pan that 
will fit under your warming-pan; wring a thin towel 
out of water, spread it over the pan, and put rose 
leaves on this about two inches thick; put another wet 
towel on top of the leaves, and three or four thicknesses 
of paper on it; put hot embers in the warming-pan, 
and set it on top of tlie paper, propped up so as not to 
liill ; when you renew the coals, sprinkle the towel that 
is at the top of the rose leaves; when all the strength 
is out of the leaves, they will be in a cake; dry this, 
and put it in your drawers toscent the clothes; put 
another set of leaves in, sprinkle the towels, and so till 
you have used up all your rose leaves. Rose water is 
a very nice seasoning for cake or pudding; it should 
be kept corked tightly. 

Cologne. 

Put into a bottle half an ounce of oil of lavender, one 
drachm of oil of rosemary, two of essence of lemon, 
two of essence of bergamot, forty drops of oil of cinna- 



WINES. 



149 



mon, and a little musk, if you like it; pour on it three 
pints of best alcohol. 

Blackberry "Wine. 

Gather the fruit when fully ripe, but before the sun 
has had time to dry the juice ; put it in a tub and pour 
in clear cold water enough to cover it; mash it to a 
pulp with a wooden masher; strain it through a linen 
bag or towel; a deal of juice will remain in the pulp, 
which in order to get you must add some sugar to it, 
and boil it in your preserving kettle, when you may 
strain again, and will have little left but seeds; to every 
gallon of the liquor, add three pounds of good brown 
sugar; pour it in a keg, (which should stand in a 
cellar, or cool dry place;) let it stand two or three 
weeks, with the bung laid loosely on; as the froth 
works out fill it up, (with some of the liquor kept out 
for the purpose.) French brandy in the proportion 
of a quart to five gallons, is an improvement. At the 
end of three or four weeks, it may be closely bunged 
and put away in a safe dry closet, w^here it should re- 
main undisturbed for a year, when it may be racked 
off, bottled and sealed over. 

Gooseberry Wine. 

--^Put three pounds of lump sugar in a gallon of water; 
boil and skim it; when it is nearly cold, pour in it four 
quarts of ripe gooseberries, that have been well mashed, 
and let it stand two days, stirring it frequently; 
steep half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of brandy 
for two days, and beat it with the whites of four eggs 
till they froth, and put it in the wine; stir it up, and 
strain it through a flannel bag into a cask or jug; 
fasten it so as to exclude the air; let it stand six 



150 WINES. 

months, and bottle it for use ; put two or three raisins 
in each bottle, and cork it up. 

Currant Wine. "^ 

Pick and mash the currants, either ^vith your hands 
or a clean block, in a tub ; strain them, and to one 
gallon of juice, put two gallons of water; and to each 
gallon of the mixture, put three pounds of sugar; stii 
it until the sugar is dissolved, then put it in a clean cask 
that has never been used for beer or cider; put it in a 
cellar or cool place, and let it work out at the bung for 
several weeks; have a gallon of it saved in a jug to fill 
up with, as it works out. When it is done working, 
bung it up. 

You may rack it off towards spring, or it will not 
hurt it to stand a year. 

If you want a barrel of wine, you must have eight 
gallons of currant juice, sixteen of water, and seventy- 
two pounds of sugar; put in a quart of brandy after it 
has done working; if you can get a clean brandy barrel 
to put it in, it is better than a new one. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Mash well together equal quantities of currants and 
water, strain the juice and to every gallon add three 
pounds of best brown sugar; fdl the cask two-thirds 
full, bung it tight and put clay over; by this means the 
air is excluded while the process of fermentation is 
going on; the cask should be iron-bound; rack it off 
and bottle or put in demijohns the next spring af\er 
making. 

Elderberry Wine, &c. 

To each gallon of berries, put one of water; mash 
them in a tub, and leave them two days, stirring them 



WINES. 



151 



frequently; then strain them, and to each gallon of juice 
put three pounds of brown sugar, and to every five 
gallons, two ounces of bruised ginger, and one of 
cloves, which tie up in a bag, and boil in the wine for 
an hour, and put it in a cask; when it is nearly cold, 
put in two spoonsful of lively yeast; let it ferment two 
days, and put in a pint of spirits with the bag of spice, 
and close it up. This is excellent as a medicine for 
delicate or elderly persons. 

Fill a bottle with elderberries, with a dozen cloves, 
and fill it up with spirits. It is good to give children 
that have the summer disease; mix a tea-spoonful of it 
with sugar and water for a child, or a table-spoonful 
for a grown person. 

Ginger "Wine. 

Boil nine quarts of water with six pounds of lump 
sugar, the rinds of three lemons very thinly pared, and 
two ounces of race ginger pounded; when it has 
boiled half an hour, skim it, and pour it on the juice 
of two lemons : when nearly cold, add two-spoonsful 
of yeast; put a pound of raisins in the cask, with a 
half a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of shaved 
isinglass; strain it in the cask, and stop it tight; bottle 
it in six or seven weeks. 

Raspberry Wine. 

Pick over the raspberries, and to every quart put a 
quart of water; bruise them, and let them stand two 
days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three 
pounds of lump sugar; stir it till the sugar is dissolved, 
and put it in a clean barrel, or keg; at the end of two 
months, bottle it, and put a spoonful of brandy, or a 
glass of wine in each bottle. 



152 RASPBERRY VINEGAR BEER. 

Raspberry Vinegar, and its uses, 

Put two pounds of raspberries in a large bowl, and 
pour on them two quarts of white-wine vinegar; the 
next day, strain tlie liquor on two pounds of fresh rasp- 
berries; let this stand a day, and strain it into a stone 
jar; to each pint of the liquor put a pound of loaf 
sugar; stir till it is dissolved, and put the jar in & 
sauce-pan of water, which keep boiling for an hour; 
skim it, and bottle it when cold. This is used not 
only as a refreshing drink, mixed with water, but is 
said to be of use in complaints of the chest. No glazed 
or metal vessels should be used in making it. 

Spruce Beer. 

Boil some spruce boughs with some wheat bran, till 
it tastes suflicicntly of tlie spruce; bruise some alspice, 
and put in; strain it, and put two quarts of molasses 
to half a barrel; when it is nearly cold, put in half a 
pint of yeast; after it has worked sufficiently, bung 
up the barrel. 

To Make Two Gallons of Beer. 

Put two jiounds of brown sugar in a jug, with a 
heaped spoonful of ginger, and a jiint of strong hop tea; 
pour in a gallon and a half of warm water, and a tea- 
cup of yeast; leave put the cork a day — then fasten it 
up, and set it in a cool place; or if you bottle it, put 
two or three raisins in each bottle. 

Harvest Beer. 

To make fifteen gallons of beer, put into a keg three 
pints of yeast, three pints of molasses, and two gallons 
of cold water; mix it well, and let it stand a few min- 
utes; then take three quarts of molasses, and tJiree 



BEEK CIDER. 153 

gallons of boiling water, with one ounce of ginger; 
mix them well, and pour into the keg, and fill it up 
with cold water. 

A decoction of the root of sassafras is good to put 
in beer. 

Porter Beer. 

A pleasant drink in summer is to take one bottle of 
porter, five bottles of water, and a pint of molasses, or 
a pound of sugar; make a spoonful of ginger into a tea, 
and mix all well together; .have seven clean bottles, 
wnth two or three raisins in each; fill them, cork them 
tight, and lay them on their sides on the cellar floor. 

Molasses Beer, 

Take five pints of molasses, half a pint of yeast, two 
spoonsful of pounded ginger, and one of allspice; put 
these into a clean half-barrel, and pour on it two 
srallons of boiling water; shake it till a fermentation 
is produced; then fill it up with warm water, and let 
it work with the bung out, a day, when it will be fit 
for use; remove it to a cold place, or bottle it. This 
is a very good drink for laboring people in warm 
weather. 

To Make Cider. 

To mate cider that wdll keep sweet for a length of 
time, require^ particular attention to all the points. 
All the works and utensils in use must be perfectly 
clean, so that nothing acid shall come in contact with 
the pulp or liquor while pressing. The casks should 
be cleaned in the following manner: 

After washing each barrel clean, put in a lump of 
unslacked lime, and pour in a gallon of boiling water; 
bung it up, and roll the barrel several times a day, 
14 



1 54 VINEGAR. 

letting it lay with the bung down ; in the evening, empt) 
out the lime-water, and wash the barrel clean in sev- 
eral waters; after the water is drained out, burn a 
brimstone match in it, made of a piece of coarse 
muslin one inch broad, and four long, dipped in 
melted brimstone; light one end of the match, and put 
it in ; put the bung on slightly, so as to hold the other 
end, and allow air sufficient to make it burn ; when 
the rag has bul-neti out, drive in the bung to keep in 
the sulphuric gas, which, if allowed time, will con- 
dense on the sides. 

The apples should be kept under cover, and secured 
from rain. After they have laid to mellow for two or 
three weeks, select those that are sound; break off the 
stems and leaves; have the trough perfectly clean, and 
after Ihcy are ground, keep tliem from the sun and rain 
for twenty-four hours; tlien press tliem, and fill into 
the casks; the first running is always the best; each 
cask that is filled should be numbered, so as to know 
the quality; and after they are all filled, draw off and 
mix them, the weak with the strong; keep the casks 
filled up with cider while they are fermenting; when 
the fermentation is subsiding, there will be a thin 
white scum rise slowly: when this is all ofT, lay on the 
bung lightly; rack it off in a lew days in barrels, in 
which brimstone has been used, and bung' it tight; 
rack it off again in March, and keep the bungs in 
tight. 

To Make Vinegar. 

You may always have good vinegar for pickling, and 
otlier purposes, by taking a little pains. Get a tight 
whiskey barrel, if it is clean you need not rinse it, and 
put into it ten gallons of the best vinegar you can 



VINEGAR. 155 

procure, with one quart of whiskey and one quart of 
molasses; every day for a week, add a gallon of good 
cider that has not been watered, and shake the barrel 
each time; let it stand in this state two weeks, shaking 
the barrel frequently. After this, you may put in a 
gallon of cider occasionally, with any that has been left 
at" table, or the settlings of decanters or bottles that 
have had wine in, but do not put in any water. It will 
make much sooner in the garret or a warm place, but 
if the barrel is fixed early in the summer, you will have 
plenty to pickle with in the fall; taste it so as not to 
add cider too fast. Have a phial with a string at- 
tached to it that you can put in at the bung. You 
should have a barrel of good hard cider before you 
begin to make vinegar. If you are in want of vinegar, 
fill a jug from the barrel, and set it in the hot sun, 
where it will turn sour much quicker. It is a good plan 
to keep a jug in a closet, where you can empty all the 
slops of cider and wine ; and when you get it full, empty 
it in the barrel. 

After the pickling is done, you can put as much hard 
cider in the barrel, a gallon at a time, as you have 
taken out, wath a little molasses, and half a pint of 
whiskey; if you put too much of the latter it will pre- 
vent it from getting sour, but a little gives strength to 
the cider, and the molasses increases the acidity, and 
helps to color it. If you should have any juice of 
cherries, currants, or blackberries, put it in, or if you 
can get cheap sour raisins, they will be an improve- 
ment to the flavor of the vinegar; a tea-cup of burnt 
sugar will give it a good color. 

Vinegar made in this way will keep pickles good for 
several years. If the cider has not sufficient strength 
it will take longer to make. 



166 PICKLES. 

To Fickle Mangoes. 

Pick your musk-melons at a proper age, before Ihej 
get too hard ; make a slit in the sides and take out the 
seeds with a tea-spoon ; boil a pickle of ground alum 
salt, that will bear an egg, and let the melons lay in 
this a week; then make a new pickle, and let them lay 
in it another week; then wash them, and scald them 
in weak vinegar, or sour cider, with cabbage leaves 
around the kettle; put them in a jar, and put the 
vinegar and leaves in with them; leave them two days, 
then wipe them carefully, and to two dozen mangoes, 
have an ounce of mace, one of cloves, some nastur- 
tions, small onions, scraped horse-radish, and mustard 
seed sufficient to fill them; fill up the inside of each 
one, and tie them round with strings. Put them in 
your kettle with strong vinegar, and let them scald a 
few minutes; then j)ut them in a wide-mouthed jar, and 
pour the vinegar over; have them covered close, and 
they will keep good for several years. Large green 
tomatoes make good mangoes, previously salted and 
drained, when fill them as other mangoes. 

For Fickling Mangoes with Oil and Vinegar. 

Cut a square piece out to remove the inside; lay 
them in salt and water nine or ten days, and after- 
wards green them as any other pickle. For stuffing, 
take two ounces of garlic, dried and pulverized, two 
ounces of horse-radish, prepared as the garlic, two 
ounces of nutmegs, two ounces of cloves, two ounces of 
mace, two ounces of whole mustard seed. When the 
mangoes are large, put a small cucumber, and two beans 
in each. Wipe each mango perfectlv drv before tlie 
stuffing is put in; sew each up, and tic twine around 



PICKLES. 157 

it; then put them in a pot, and pour the pot two-thirds 
full of sharp vinegar; pour sweet oil on the top till 
covered. The ingredients must be mixed with sweet 
oil. The spices, &c. mentioned, are sufficient for a 
dozen mangoes. 

Cucumbers. 

Gather the cucumbers w'hile they are small, lay them 
in a jar with salt enough to make a pickle; pour in a 
little water, and if there is not salt enough to cover 
them, in a few days put in more. At the end of two 
weeks put them in a kettle, with cabbage leaves around 
and through them; fill it up with weak vinegar, and let 
them scald three hours; put all in a jar for three days, 
then take out the cucumbers, pour out the vinegar and 
leaves; put them back in the jar, with some cloves, 
peppers, horse-radish and mustard; boil some strong 
vinegar and pour over them. 

Small Cucumbers. 

Wash small cucumbers from two to four inches long; 
put a gallon of very strong vinegar in a large jar, with 
mustard seed, scraped horse-radish, and celery seed, 
a small portion of each, and a tea-cupful of salt; put the 
cucumbers in the jar; tie them close. Martina's may 
be pickled in the same way, or in the old way of pick- 
ling cucumbers. 

To Pickle Cherries or Peaches, 

If peaches, wipe them well w^th a coarse towel; if 
cherries, cut the stems half off, but do not stone them; 
put them in jars, and to every half gallon of vinegar it 
takes to cover them, put a pound of sugar, and cloves 
and cinnamon to taste; boil and skim it well, and 
14* 



158 PICKLES. 

when nearly cool pour it over the fruit; for three suc- 
cessive days pour off the vinegar, and boil and pour 
it on again. 

Peaches. 

Pick out sound clingstone peaches; lay them in salt 
and water for a day, then wipe them on a coarse cloth; 
boil up some strong vinegar, with a little ginger, whole 
pepper and mustard seed; puttlie peaches in ajar and 
pour this over. 

White Walnuts. 

Take full grown white walnuts, or butter-nuts, be- 
fore the shells get so hard that a pin will not run 
through easily; put them in a jar; boil a pickle of 
ground alum salt that will bear an egg, skim it, and 
when it gets cold, pour it on the walnuts; let them lay 
in tliis ten days; then make another pickle as strong as 
the first, and leave them in it ten days longer; then 
scrape each one carefully, until you get all the rough 
skin off, wipe them with a very coarse cloth, and let 
them soak in cold water two days; boil them in weak 
vinegar, and let them lay in this a week; boil enough 
good vinegar to cover them; mix together scraped 
horse-radish, mustard seed, cloves, red pepper, onions 
and garlic; put a layer of the walnuts in a jar, and 
sprinkle the spice over; pour the boiling vinegar over 
the top. 

English Walnuts, 

Gather them when nearly full grown, but not too 
hard; pour boiling salt and water on them; let them be 
covered with it nine days, changing it every third day; 
then take them out on dishes, and put them in the sun 
to blacken, turning them over; then put them in ajar 
and strew over them pepper, cloves, garlic, mustard 



PICKLES. 159 

seed and scraped horse-radish; cover them with cold 
strong vinegar and tie them up. 

Black Walnuts. 

Gather the walnuts while you can run a pin through 
them; boil them in an iron pot three hours, to soften 
the shell; put them in a tub of cold water, hull and 
wash them, and put them in your jars; pour salt and 
water over them, and change it every day for a week; 
at the end of that time scald them in weak vinegar; let 
them stand in this three days, then pour it off, and for 
half a bushel of hulled walnuts, have quarter of a 
pound of cloves, a tea-cup of mustard seed, two 
spoonsful of black pepper, a pint of scraped horse- 
radish, two pods of red pepper, some sliced onions 
and garlic; put these in the jars with the walnuts, and 
iill them up with strong cold vinegar. 

Pickled walnuts will keep for six or seven years, 
and are as good at the last as the first. 

Virginia Yellow Pickles, 

To two gallons of vinegar, put one pound of ginger, 
quarter of a pound of black pepper, two ounces of red 
pepper, two of cloves, a tea-cup of celery seed, a pint 
of horse-radish, a pint of mustard seed, a few onions or 
garlic, and three ounces of turmeric to turn them 
yellow. The above ingredients should be mixed 
together in ajar, and set in the sun by the first of July, 
tied up close, with a block over each jar to keep out 
the rain. Put whatever you intend to pickle in salt 
and water for two or three days; then pour boiling salt 
and water on them; wash them and drop them in the 
jars of vinegar. 

You can pickle any thing in this way but walnuts. 



160 TICKLES. 

The same pickle, by adding more vinegar to it, will do 
for two years; if the jars are set by a fire, a much less 
time will do to take the strength out of the spices; the 
turmeric should be tied up in a bag. 

Tomatoes. 

Scald and peel a peck of ripe tomatoes ; lay them on 
dishes, and strew salt thickly over them; let them 
stand for twenty-four hours, occasionally pouring off 
the liquor that the salt extracts; then drain them on a 
sifter, and gently squeeze them, as it is this juice that 
weakens the vinegar and makes the pickles spoil; take 
a large jar, put in a layer of tomatoes, then a layer 
of sliced onions, mustard seed, cloves and white 
pepper, or whole black pepper; (you may if you like, 
break two pods of red pepper and put in each jar.) 
AVhea the jar is full, pour very strong vinegar over, and 
in a few days they will be ready for use, and will keep 
all winter. They retain much of the tomato flavor, 
and should be kept in a cool place. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Take small round tomatoes when they are not too 
ripe; stick them with a needle in several places, to 
keep the skin from bursting, and let them lay a week 
in salt and water; tlien wash them and put them in a 
jar with some cloves, pepper and small onions; cover 
them with strong cold vinegar, and tie up the jar. 

Pepper Mangoes, 

Take fully grown green peppers, cut a slit in the side 
of each and take out the seeds ; make a strong brine 
and lay them in it for three days; then soak them in 
clear water a day and night; pack them in a jar, and 



PICKLES. 161 

pour boiling vinegar over them with a piece of alum; 
let them stay in this three days, when boil the vinegar 
agam, and pour over them; when they are green, stuff 
them with chopped cabbage, mustard seed, cloves, 
horse-radish, pepper, and a small onion in each ; tie 
them up, put them in a jar; boil fresh vinegar and pour 
over. 

Observe always to have the kettle you boil vinegar 
in well cleaned; never put pickles in common earthen- 
ware, as the glazing is poisonous. 

Onions. 
Peel small white onions and pour boiling milk and 
water over them; when cold, put them in a jar, and 
make a pickle of strong vinegar, a little mace, ginger, 
white mustard seed, and horse-radish; boil it and pour 
over them. 

If you want them to be white, do not put in black 
pepper or cloves. 

Mushrooms, 

Take the small round mushrooms that are pale pink 

underneath, with white tops, and peel easily; put them 

in ajar with a little mace, white mustard seed and salt; 

cover them with cold vinegar, and tie them close If 

you put in black pepper or cloves, it will turn them 

dark. 

Nasturtions. 

Have some strong vinegar in a jar with a little salt, 
and as you gather the nasturtions, put them in, and 
keep the jar tied close. 

Cherries. 

Take sound morel cherries with the stems on, and 
put them in a jar; boil spices in strong vinegar, and 



l62 PICKLES. 

pour over them hot. Damsons may be done in the 
same way. A little sugar improves the pickle. 

Cabbage. 
Take firm heads of purple cabbage, quarter them, 
sprinkle them with salt, and let them lay three or four 
days, when shave them fine, drain off the salt and put 
them in a jar; boil enough vinegar to cover them, with 
horse-radish, pepper and cloves; when nearly cold pour 
it on the cabbage, and put in a little cochineal tied up 
in a bag; it will be fit for use in a week. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

Cut hard cabbage fine as for slaw; sprinkle salt 
through it, and let it lay under a moderate pressure for 
twelve hours; then drain well through a colander; slice 
a dozen raw onions ; have a large jar in readiness, put 
in a layer of cabbage, strew in some of the onions, a 
few cloves, a tea-cupful of mustard seed, some whole 
black pepper; cut six half ripe red pepper pods, and 
sprinkle in; add a little more salt; boil vinegar and 
pour on suflicient to cover the mixture. 

Cut Cucumbers. 

Slice large cucumbers lengthwise — do not pare 
them — then cut them lialf an inch thick; if you have 
small ones, slice them across; put them in a large jar, 
and sprinkle them well with salt; after standing a day 
or two, pour off the liquid the salt has extracted; drain 
them, -and wash the jar, and put the cucumbers in al- 
ternately, with sliced onions, mustard seed, white 
pepper, whole black pepper and a few cloves; pour 
over them strong vinegar, and tie close; keep them in 
a cool place, but do not allow them to freeze in severe 



CATSUPS. 163 

weather, as freezing spoils the flavor of pickles. 
When pickles do not keep well, pour off the vinegar, 
and put more on ; but if the vinegar is of the best 
quality, there is little fear of this. Putting alcohol on 
over paper, will prevent their moulding. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Take full grown cucumbers, pare them, and cut out 
the lines of white pith, which are on three sides; cut 
them in slices about half an inch thick; to six cucum- 
bers, put one onion, sliced fine; then sprinkle them with 
salt, placing the fruit in layers, with salt between; — 
next morning, press the liquor from them ; put them in 
small jars, and fill up with strong vinegar, seasoned 
with pepper, mustard seed, and salt, if necessary. 
The small jars are recommended — as the cucumbers 
do not keep well after they have been exposed to 
the air. 

Tomato Catsup, 

Take a peck of ripe tomatoes, wash and cut out the 
stems, but do not peel them; put them over the fire in 
your bell-metal kettle, cover them, and let them boil till 
soft enough to mash, when pour them in a colander 
placed over a pan ; drain them and throw away the 
liquid; then mash and strain the tomatoes, a few at a 
time, through a hair sifter: this is rather a tedious 
process; but, as the waste liquor has been previously 
drained off, the catsup will require but about twenty 
minutes boiling; throw in the spices before you taice 
it up, fine pepper and salt, mustard, and a few whole 
cloves, and sliced onions, if you like their flavor; 
allow a tea-cup of strong vinegar to each bottle of cat- 
sup; part of which may be put in with the spices, and 



164 CATSUPS. 

the rest in each bottle on top of the catsup, before you 
cork and seal them. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Gather the walnut^;, as for j)ickling, and put them in 
salt and water for ten days; then pound tliera in a mor- 
tar, and to every dozen walnuts put a quart of strong 
vinegar, and stir it every day for a week; then strain 
it through a bag, and to every quart of liquor put a 
tea-spoonful of pounded mace, the same of cloves, and 
a few pieces of garlic or onion; boil it twenty minutes, 
and when cold, bottle it. White or black walnuts are 
as good for catsup as the English walnut, and will 
keep good for several vears. 

Green Tomato Catsup. 

After the tomatoes have ceased to ripen, slice and 
})ut them in a jar, witli salt scattered through tliem; let 
them stand two days, then drain them in a colander; 
put them in the jars they are to remain in, strewing 
sliced onioQs, cloves, whole pepper, mustard seed, and 
one or two red jiepper ])ods tlirough them; boil vinegar 
enough to cover tliem and pour over; tie them close 
and put a plate on each jar. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Take the largest mushrooms, those that are begin- 
ing to turn dark, cut o(T the roots, put them in a stone 
jar, withsome salt; mash them and cover the jar; let 
them stand two days, stirring them several times a day; 
then strain and boil the liquor, to every quart of which, 
put a tea-spoonful of whole pepper and the same of 
cloves, and mustard seed, and a little ginger; when 
c'llc!, bnttle it, leaving room in each bottle for a tea- 



SAUCES. 165 

cupful of strong vinegar, and a table-spoonful of 
brandy; cork them up and seal them over. 

Tomato Sauce, 

Scald and peel a peck of ripe tomatoes; cut them in 
slices and lay them »]jf a large dish; cover well with 
salt each layer; the next morning put the tomatoes in a 
colander or on a sifter, and drain off all the liquid; then 
mash them with a wooden masher, and to each quart, 
put a pint of strong vinegar, two table-spoonsful of 
white mustard seed, a dozen cloves, a dozen grains 
of black pepper, an onion sliced and chopped, a table- 
spoonful of salt; if mashed fine you can pour it out 
of wide-mouthed bottles; put a table-spoonful of spirits 
in each bottle at the top; cork tight, and seal. If you 
prefer putting the sauce in small stone jars, put spirits 
on paper at the top of each. 

Spiced Peaches. 

Take nine pounds of good ripe peaches, rub them 
with a coarse towel, and halve them; put four pounds 
of sugar and a pint of good vinegar in your preserving 
kettle, with cloves, cinnamon and mace; when the 
syrup is formed, throw in the peaches, a few at a time, 
so as to keep them as whole as may be ; when clear, 
take them out and put in more ; boil the syrup till quite 
rich, and then pour it over the peaches. Cherries may 
be done in the same way. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

Gather large mushrooms, that have not turned dark, 

peel them and cut off the stems; put them in a pan and 

strew salt over each layer; when all are in, mash them 

well; then put them in a jar, put a plate on the top, 

15 



166 BACON. 

and set it in a pot of cold water; let it heat gradually, 
and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes; to each quart 
of die pulp put three tca-cupsful of strong vinegar, 
two tea-spoonsful of powdered mace, or one of cloves, 
two of white mustard seed, one of black pepper; put it 
in jars or wide-mouthed botUe^with a spoonful of 
alcohol at the top of each, and secure it from tlie air. 
This is by some preferred to tlie catsup. 



TO CURE BACON, BEEF, PORK, 
SAUSAGE, &c. 



To Cure Bacon. 

To one thousand weight of pork, put one bushel 
of fine salt, one pound and a half of saltpetre rolled fine 
and mixed with the salt; rub this on the meat and pack 
it away in a tight hogshead; let it lay for six weeks, 
th?n hang it up and smoke it with hickory wood, every 
day for two weeks, and afterwards two or three times 
a week for a month; then take it down and rub it all 
over with hickojy ashes, which is a.n effectual remedy 
against the fly or skipper. When the weather is un- 
usually warm at the time of salting your pork, more 
care is requisite to preserve it from taint. When it is 
cut up, if it seems warm, lay it on boards, or on the 
bare ground, till it is sufficiently cool for salting; 
examine the meat tubs or casks frequently, and if there 
is an appearance of mould, strew salt over; if the 
weather has been very warm after packing, and on 
examining, you should find evidence of its spoiling, 



PORK HAMS, ETC. 167 

lose no time in unpacking the meat; for a hogshead 
of hams and shoulders that are in this state, have six 
pounds of brown sugar, three pounds of salseratus, 
mixed with half a bushel of salt; rub each piece with 
this, and as you pack it in the hogshead, (which should 
be well -washed and cleaned,) sprinkle a little coarse 
salt over each layer of pork, and also on the bottom 
of the hogshead. I have known this plan to save a 
large quantity of pork, that would have been unfit for 
use, if it had not been discovered and attended to in 
time. Some persons use crushed charcoal to purify 
their meat. Shoulders are more easily affected than 
hams, and if the weather is warm the ribs should be 
cut out of the shoulders. Jowls also require particular 
care; black pepper, about a pound to a hogshead, 
sprinkled on the meat before it is hung up to smoke, is 
valuable as a preventive where flies are troublesome; 
have a large pepper-box kept for the purpose, and dust 
every part that is exposed ; pepper is also good to put 
on beef before it is hung up to dry; wash it off before 
cooking, and it does not injure the flavor. 

To Pickle Pork, 

Take out all the ribs, and cut it in pieces of about 
three pounds each; pack it in a tight barrel, and salt it 
well with coarse salt; boil a very strong pickle made 
of coarse salt, and when it is cold pour it over the 
meat, and put a weight on the top; if you wish pork to 
keep, do not put saltpetre in, as it injures the flavor. 

To Cure Hams and Shoulders. 

To cure five hundred weight of hams and shoulders, 
take fifteen quarts of common salt, one pound and a 
half of saltpetre rolled fine, half a pound of red pepper 



168 CHINKS SAUSAGE MEAT, ETC. 

pods chopped fine, and four quarts of molasses; mix 
them all together and rub the meat well; pack it down, 
cover it close, and let it remain six weeks; then hang 
it up and smoke it willi green hickory wood for three 
weeks. If there is a damp spell of weather, it is best 
to make a fire in your meat-house occasionally through 
the summer, to keep the meat from moulding. 

To Mcike a Pickle for Chines. 

Rub the chines with fine salt, and pack them in a 
tight barrel; make a pickle of coarse salt, strong 
enough tn bear an egg; boil and skim it, and when 
nearly cold pour it on; let there be enough to cover 
them, and put a weight on the top. Chines are good 
smoked. 

It is best to make a separate pickle for the heads ; 
wash and scrape them, cut off the ears and noses, and 
take out the eyes. The jowls may be packed and 
smoked with the bacon. 

Sausage Meat, &c. 

Separate the tender parts of the meat from the rough 
and bony pieces, and chop each sort separately; to 
twenty-two pounds of meat have half a pound of salt, 
three heaped table-spoonsful of sage, three of pepper, 
and two of thyme. If you have a box large enough to 
hold this quantity, sprinkle it over the meat before it is 
chopped, and it will be thoroughly mixed by the time 
it is done. It is best to have a small piece fried to 
taste, and if it is not seasoned right, it can be altered; 
you should have some pieces of fat, chopped in with 
the meat. 

The sage and thyme should be carefully dried, but 
uot heated too much, neither should it be hung up too 



SAUSAGE MEAT, ETO. 169 

near the fire, as it would spoil the flavor; rub it through 
a wire sifter, and if that should not make it fine enough, 
pound it in a mortar or grind it in your pepper mill. 
The pepper should be ground and ready some days 
before it is needed, as the pork season in the country 
is (while it lasts) one of the busiest in the year; every 
thing should be prepared before hand that you possibly 
can. It is a good plan to have plenty of bread and pies 
baked, and a quantity of apples stewed, vegetables 
washed and ready to cook, so that every member of 
the family, that is able, may devote herself to the work 
of putting away the meat which is of so much impor- 
tance for the coming year; w^hile some are cutting up 
the fat to render into lard, others may be employed in 
assorting the sausage meat, and cutting it into small 
pieces for the chopping machine, by trimming off every 
part that can be spared. You can have one hundred 
pounds of sausage from twelve hundred weight of pork, 
and since the introduction of sausage choppers, a great 
deal more sausage is made, than formerly, by the old 
method. Clean a few of the maws, and soak them in 
salt and water, and fill them wuth sausage meat; sew 
them close ; let them lay in pickle for two weeks ; then 
hang them up, and when your meat is smoked, let them 
have a few days smoke. In this way sausage will 
keep all summer, and is very nice when boiled slowly 
for several hours, and eaten cold. The best fat to 
chop in with sausage is taken from the chines or back 
bones. To keep sausage for present use, put it in 
small stone pans, aijd pour melted lard over the top ; 
for later in the season, make muslin bags that will hold 
about three pounds, with a loop sewed on to hang 
them up by; fill them with meat, tie them tight, and 
hang them in a cool airy place; they will keep in this 
15* 



170 SAUSAGE, ETC. 

way till August; when you want to fry them, rip pan 
of the seam, cut out as many slices as you want, tie up 
the bag and hang it up again. If you have a large 
quantity, a sausage chopper is a great convenience. 

Liver Sausage. 
. Take four livers, with the lights and hearts; have 
two heads cleaned, and boil tliem with any scraps, or 
skinny pieces you have; skim the pot; take out the 
livers when they are done, and let the heads boil 
longer; when tiiey are done, pick out the bones, and 
chop all togetiier; season with sage,.tliyme, sweet mar- 
joram, salt and pepper; put it in pans, and fry it as 
sausage. 

Bologna Sausag3. 

Chop ten pounds of beef, wilh two jiounds and a 
half of the fat of fresh pork; pound one ounce of mace, 
and one of cloves, and mix in; let it stand a day, then 
stuff it in large skins; let tlieni lay in brine ten days, 
then hang them up to smoke a few days; they can be 
put in tlie same brine wilh beef or tongues. 

Hogs' Head Cheese. 

Take oft' tlie ears and no.ses of lour heads, and j)ick 
out the eyes, and lay them in salt and water all night; 
then wash and put them on to boil; take out the- bones 
carefully, chop and season them well, and pack it in 
bowls; they will turn out whole, and may be eaten 
cold with vinegar, or fried as sausage. 

Pigs' Feet: 

Pigs' feet should be well cleaned by dipping them 
in scalding water, and scraping oft" the hairs; leave 
them in weak salt and water two days, changing it 



SOUSE SCRAPPLE. 171 

each day: if you wish to boil them for souse, they are 
now ready; bui if the weather is cold they will keep 
in this a month. They should be kept in a cold place, 
and if they are frozen there is no danger of their spoil- 
ing; but if there comes on a thaw, change the salt and 
water; soak them in freshwater all night before you 
boil them. In this way they are good to eat with pep? 
per and vinegar while hot, or may be dipped in batter 
and fried after they are cold. 

To make Souse. 

Boil the feet till the bones come out easily, and pick 
out all the large bones; pack them in a stone pan with 
pepper and salt, and cover it with vinegar; they may be 
eaten cold, or dipped in flour and fried. Another way 
is to pick out all the bones, season them with salt, pep- 
per and sage, and warm them up as you want to use 
them. 

Pigs' feet, after being boiled, are very nice stewed 
as terrapins; make the gravy with butter and water; 
they are nourishing food for delicate persons. 

Vessels for salting meat should be cleaned well after 
the meat is hung up, and set on boards in the cellar; 
if they do not smell sweet, they should be washed and 
soaked before meat is packed in them again. You 
should see that the hoops are sound, and have covers 
made to fit them. If taken care of in this way, they 
will last a number of years. 

Scrapple. 

Take eight pounds of scraps of pork, that will not 
do for sausage; boil it in four gallons of water; w^hen 
tender, chop it fine, strain the liquor and pour it back 
into the pot; put in the meat; season it with sage, sum- 



172 DRIED BEEF. 

mer savory, salt and pepper to taste; stir in a quart o^ 
com meal; after simmering a few minutes, thicken it 
with buckwheat flour very thick; it requires verj- little 
cooking after it is thickened, but must be stirred con- 
stantly. 

Dried Beef. 

An experienced housekeeper has furnished the fol- 
lowing method for curing and drying beef, which will 
keep good for two years, without being injured by 
must or fly, and is much admired. Have the rounds 
divided, leaving a piece of the sinew to hang up by; 
lay the pieces in a tub of cold water for an hour; then 
rub each piece of beef that will weigh fifteen or 
twenty pounds, with a handful of brown sugar and a 
table-spoonful of saltpetre, pulverized, and a pint of 
fine salt; sprinkle fine salt in the bottom of a clean tight 
barrel, and lay the pieces in, strewing a little coarse 
salt between each piece; let it lay two days; then 
make the brine in a clean tub, with cold water and 
ground alum salt — stir it well; it must be strong enough 
to bear an egg half up; put in half a pound of best 
brown sugar and a table-spoonful of saltpetre to each 
gallon of the salt and water; pour it over the beef; put 
a clean large stone on the top of the meat to keep it 
under the pickle, (which is very important;) put a cover 
on the barrel; examine it occasionally to see that the 
pickle does not leak, — and if it should need more, add 
of the same strength; let it stand six weeks, when hang 
it up in the smoke-house, and after it has drained, 
smoke it moderately for ten days; it should then hang 
in a dry place; before cooking, let it soak for twenty- 
four hours: a piece that weighs fifteen or twenty 
pounds should boil two hours — one half the size, one 
hour, and a small piece should soak six or twelve 



BEEF TONGUES. 173 

hours, according to size. Beef cured in ihis way will 
make a nice relish, when thinly sliced and eaten cold, 
for breakfast or tea, or put between slices of bread and, 
butter for lunch ; it will keep for several weeks, — and 
persons of delicate stomachs can sometimes reiisii a 
thin slice, eaten cold, when they cannot retain hot or 
rich food. 

This receipt will answer for all parts of the beef, to 
be boiled for the dinner table through the summer. 

To Cure Beef. 

Make a pickle of six quarts of salt, six gallons of 
water, half a pound of saltpetre, and three of sugar, or 
half a gallon of molasses; pack the beef in a barrel, 
with line and coarse salt mixed; when the pickle is 
cold, pour it over, and put a weight on the top ; let it 
stay two weeks, when you can hang it up and smoke 
it, to boil through the summer; or boil the pickle 
over again, and leave it in till you want to use it: this 
is for two hundred pounds. 

A New Method of Curing Beef, 

Take six gallons of water, nine pounds of salt, (fine 
and coarse mixed,) three pounds of sugar, one quart 
of molasses, three ounces of saltpetre, and one ounce 
of pearl-ash or sala^ratus; boil and skim it well, and 
let it stand till entirely cold, when pour it on beef 
that has been sprinkled with salt for several days. 
You can boil of this beef from the brine all winter, or 
hang it up, and smoke it with your bacon. 

To Cure a Dozen Tongues. 

Soak the tongues an hour in a tub of cold water to 
extract the blood, and cut off most of the root; mix 



174 BEEF, ETC. 

together a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, finely pow- 
dered, one pound of brown sugar, and a pint of salt; 
rub the tongues with this, and put them in a tight bar- 
rel; then make a pickle that will bear an egg, which 
pour over tliem; turn them every tliree days, and let 
them stay in the pickle two weeks; then smoke thcni 
two days, and hang them uj) in a dry place; boil and 
skim the pickle that the tongues have been in, and il 
will do for a round of beef. 

Pickle for Two Rounds of Beef. 

Cut the rounds in a suitable shape for drying; mix 
together two pints of salt, one of molasses, or a pounil 
of sugar, and half a pound of saltpetre; rub them with 
this, and pack them in a tight vessel; make^a pickle that 
will bear an egg, and pour it over; put a weigiit on tiif 
top, and let it lay for ten days, when take it out, and 
smoke it two days; hang it up in a dry place; it will 
be fit to slice and broil in a week; or cut it vcrv thin, 
and stew or fry it witli butter and cream. Legs of 
mutton may be salted as rounds of beef, and will re- 
semble venison, when dried and chipped. 

In preparing pickle lor any kind of meat, observe 
that one gallon of water will hold, in solution, a quart 
of salt and two ounces of saltpetre. 

To Corn Beef, Pork or Mutton. 

Rub the meat well with salt, and pack it in a tub. 
If the weather is warm, it will require a good deal of 
salt, but no saltpetre. 

To Restore Meat that has been kept too long. 

When meat has been kept too long in summer, it 
may be improved by putting it in sour milk for several 



KEEPING MEAT HERRING SHAD. 175 

nours, or washing it in vinegar is good, some hours 
before it is cooked; you must wash it well in cold 
water several times ; if it lays all night in sour milk, or 
salt and vinegar, it should be put in soak early in the 
morning in cold water. In very hot weather, when 
you have fresh meat, fowls, or fish left at dinner, sprinkle 
them with strong vinegar, salt and pepper; warm this 
up the next day, either as a fry or stew; the vinegar 
will evaporate, and not injure the taste. Cold rock 
fish is good, seasoned with salt, pepper and vinegar, to 
use as a relish for breakfast or tea. 

To Keep Meat Fresh. 

Where persons live a distance from market, and 
have no fresh meat but w^hat they kill, it is important 
to know how to keep it fresh. In winter, if it is hung 
up in an out-house, it will keep very well for six wrecks, 
or more; w^hen it has once frozen, it is safe till a 
thaw comes on, w^hen rub it with salt. In the summer, 
if you have an ice-house, you can keep it without 
trouble. If rubbed with salt, and pinned in a cloth, it 
will keep in the cellar tw^o days; or by lowering it 
down your w^ell, attached to a rope, and changing the 
cloth every other day, it wnll keep good a week in hot 
weather. 

To Put up Herring and Shad. 

Those that put up their own fish should be careful to 
have the barrels tight and well cleaned; if the pickle 
leaks from them, ^hey are liable to spoil. Scale the 
fish and wash them, as it \vill save much time; w^hen 
you prepare them for cooking, take out the gills, but 
leave on the heads of herrings. 

The heads should be taken off the shad, and split 
them down the back; put a layer of fish, then a layer 



176 HERRING BUTTER. 

of ground alum salt, — anil after they are packed, put 
on a weight to keep them down. If herring are well 
cured, thev ^vill be good at the end of two years. 

To Put up Herring, 

According to the H'lrford Mode. 
First put the herring into the brine left from curing 
bacon; or, if you have none of that description, make 
a brine that will bear an o^^^^ and let them remain in 
it thirty or forty liours; then, if for pickled herring, 
change them into new brine, which must also bear an 
^^^t and head them uj) to keep. If for red herring, 
hang them up, and smoke them thoroughly. A little 
saltpetre, added to the brine, is an improvement. It is 
better to take out the roe. 



BUTTER, CHEESE, COFFEE, 
TEA, &c. 



Butter, 

It is of the fust importance that every thing con- 
nected with milk and butter should be kept clean; if 
the milk acquires an unpleasant taste, it communicates 
it to the butter. Tin pans are best to keep milk in, 
and they should be painted on the outside to keep them 
from rusting when they are put in water. 

In summer, milk should be kept as cool as possible; 
before it is strained, the pans and strainer should be 
rinsed with cold water, and the milk not covered until 
it is cold; as soon as the cream rises sufficiently, it 
should be skimmed, and put in a large tin bucket with 



BUTTER. 



177 



a lid that fits down tight, and stirred every day. But- 
ter will be spoiled by neglecting to stir the cream ; a 
yellow scum will form on it, which gives it an unpleas- 
ant taste. And if you leave a pan of milk till the 
cream is covered with spots of mould, you had better 
throw it away than put it in, as it will spoil the taste 
of a whole churning. 

If you have no way of keeping your cream cool in 
hot weather, it ought to be churned twdce a week ; the 
earlier in the morning the better. Always put cold 
water in your churn the night before you use it, and 
change it in the morning just before you put in the 
cream. When the butter is gathering, take off the lid 
of the churn to let the heated air escape, and move it 
gently; have your butter-ladle and pan scalded and 
cooled ; take out the butter and work it till all the milk 
is out; scrape some lumps of salt, and work in; cover 
it up, and set away in a cool place till the next morning, 
when work it again. 

If you have neither an ice, or spring-house, a box by 
the side of the pump, with a cover over it, is very 
convenient to put cream and butter down the well; 
put them in tin kettles with covers to fit tight, and 
fasten them to strong tarred ropes twenty feet long. 
The air of a well will keep butter sweet for several 
weeks in the hottest weather. It is best to have one 
kettle or basket to put the butter in that is used at the 
table; it should be deep enough to hold fivt or six 
plates, each covered with a saucer. It can be kept in 
this way as firm and sweet as in an ice-house. You 
can have a separate kettle to put a large lump of buttei 
in for seasoning vegetables. If you print butter for 
home use, it is not necessary to weigh it; make it out 
in little lumps that will weigh about half a pound; scald 
16 



]78 BUTTER. 

the print and ladle, and put them in cold water; as you 
print each lump, lay it on a dish. 

In winter it is more difHcult to have good butter, as 
much depends on tlie food of the cows ; the milk should 
be kept in a cellar, where it will not freeze; if you have 
a safe to keep it in, it need not be covered. Cream 
takes much longer to rise in winter; afler it has stood 
two days, to put it on the top of a moderately heated 
stove will assist it; when it is hot, set it away to skim 
the next day, when the cream will be thick and rich, 
and churns easier. 

If the weather is very cold, and the cream has been 
chilled, have a large pot of water over the fire, set in 
the bucket when it is near boiling heat, and keep stir- 
ing till it is milk-warm; have the churn scalded imd 
put it in; by churning steadily, it will come as quick 
as in summer; one good working answers very well for 
butter in winter; always scald the churn before you put 
in the cream in cold weather. 

To put up Butter for Winter. 

Work it well, and salt it rather more than for tabic 
use, and pack it in stone pans or jars, with a thin cloth 
on the top, and salt on it an inch thick; keep it in a 
cool place, and if it is sweet when made, it will keep 
good till spring. It should be tied up with paper to 
exclude the air. 

To Cure Butter that will keep for a Length 
of Time. 

Reduce separately to a fine powder two pounds of 
the best fine salt, one pound of loaf-sugar and half a 
pound of saltpetre. Sift these ingredients one above 
another, on a large sized sheet of paper, then mix them 



BUTTER. 



179 



well together; keep this mixture covered up close in a 
nice jar, and placed in a dry closet. 

When your butter is worked and salted in the usual 
way, and ready to put in the jars, use one ounce of this 
composition to every pound of butter; work it w^ell 
into the mass. 

Butter cured in this way, (it is said) will keep good 
for several years. I have never kept it longer than 
from the fall until late in the spring, it was then very 
sweet and good. 

It will not do to use for a month, because earlier, the 
salts will not be sufficiently blended wdth it. It should 
be kept in w'ooden vessels, or nice stone jars. Earth- 
en\vare jars are not suitable for butter, as during the 
decomposition of the salts, they corrode the glazing; 
and the butter becomes rancid and unhealthy. 

A friend of mine, and a lady of much experience, 
remarked on readins^ the above — "This is an admirable 
receipt, and oy attention to its directions, butter may 
be packed away w^ith success even in the summer 
months. Thus in cities during w^arm weather butter is 
often cheap, a house-keeper may then purchase her 
winter supply. 

"Select that which is sweetest and most firm; begin 
by putting a layer of the prints in the bottom of a stone 
pot; press the butter down close, so that no cavities for 
the admission of air may remain, then strew more of 
the mixture over it; proceed in this manner until the 
vessel is filled, w^hen put on the top a small muslin bag 
filled with salt, and tie the jar up close. It is very 
important to keep the butter in a cool place." 

A great deal depends on the butter being well 
worked. Persons that have large dairies should 
always have a machine to work it. A large churning 



180 BUTTER CHEESE. 

may be more effectually cleared of the butter-milk in n 
few minutes, than in the ohl way in an hour. By doiiij^ 
it quickly, it does not get sott and oily in hot weather. 

A Pickle for Butter. 

To three gallons ol water, add lour and a half pounds 
of good brown sugar, one and a half ounces of salt- 
petre, one ounce of salaeratus; put them into an iron 
pot, and let tliem come to a boil; take off the scum; 
when cold it is ready for use; the butter should be 
salted in the usual way, and well worked; then made 
into rolls of two or three pounds each ; have little bags 
of coarse muslin, tie each roll in a bag and put them in 
a large stone jar or clean firkin; when the pickle is 
entirely cold, pour it over, and put a plate on the top, 
with a weigiit on it to keep the butter under; tie it up 
close and keep it in a cold place ; when a roll is wanted, 
tike it out of the bag, and slice it off for table use. It 
should be put on little plates, and each covered with a 
saucer, to exclude the air. If the butter is good when 
put up in the fall, it will keep till you can get grass 
butter, in the spring. The jars for this purpose shoula 
not have been previously used for pickles. 

Cheese. 

Persons living in the country sometimes have more 
milk than they can use, of which cheese may be made 
Put four gallons of new milk in a clean tub that is kept 
for the purpose; skim your night's milk, and put two 
gallons of it over the fire; when it is near boiling, put it 
in the tub with the new milk, and the rest of the night's 
milk ; it should be rather more than milk warm, if it is 
too warm the cheese will have a strong taste. The 
day before you make cheese, put a piece of rennet 



CHEESE. 181 

three inches square in a tea-cup of water, and stir it in 
the milk; cover the tub and let it stand in a warm 
place; when the curd begins to form, cut it in squares 
with a long wooden knife, and spread a thin towel 
over it. When the whey comes through the cloth, 
you can dip it off with a saucer, then put a thin towel 
in the cheese vat, put in the curd, spread the cloth 
over the top, put on the lid, and press it moderately 
about half an hour; then put it back in the tub and 
salt it to your taste ; mix it well, and if you want it 
very rich put in a quarter of a pound of butter; it is 
always better to skim the night's milk and put in butter, 
as the cream is apt to press out. 

Have a clean cloth in the vat, put in the curd, close 
it over and put on the cover; if you have no cheese 
press, a heaA'y stone will answer the purpose; press it 
very gently at first, to keep the richness from running 
out. The next morning draw it out by the cloth, wash 
and wipe the vat, put in a clean cloth, and turn in the 
cheese upside down; do tljis morning and evening for 
two days ; when take out the cheese, and put it on a 
clean board; set it where the mice and flies will not 
get at it ; rub it every morning with a little butter, and 
turn it three times a day; dust it over with cayenne 
pepper if you cannot keep it from the flies, and if it 
should crack, plaster on a piece of white, paper with 
butter; it is fit for use in two weeks. 

Cheese made iii this way has a rich, mild taste, and 
most persons are fond of it. If you get eight gallons 
of milk a day, you may make cheese twice a week, and 
still have butter for the family. You should keep four 
thin cloths on purpose for cheese. 



16* 



182 CHEESE. 

Pennsylvania Cream Cheese, 

The cheese called by this name is not in reality 
made of cream. Take three gallons of milk, warm 
from the cow, and strain it into a tub; have a piece 
of rennet two inches square, soaked in half a pint of 
water for several hours; drain off the water, and stir it 
in; when it is sulHciently turned, cut the curd; spread 
a thin linen cloth over the top, and as the whey rises, 
dip it off with a saucer ; put the curd as whole as pos- 
sible into a cheese-hoop about the size of a dinner 
plate, first spreading a wet cloth inside, then fold the 
cloth smoothly over the top; put a weight on the top 
heavy enougii to make the whey drain out gradually. 
In six or seven hours it will be ready to take out of the 
press, when rub it over with fine salt; set it in a dry 
dark place; change it from one plate to another twice 
a day, and it will bo fit for use in less tiian a week. 

To Prepare Rennet for making Whey or 
Cheese. 

When the rennet is taken from the calf, wash it, lay 
it on a plate well covered with salt; put more on in 
two days, keep it in a cold place; in three or four days 
it will do to stretch on sticks; hang it up in a dry cool 
place, with as much salt as will stick to it; when quite 
dry, put it in a paper bag and hang it up; a piece two 
inches square soaked in two table-spoonsful of water 
will make a cold custard; the same piece salted and 
dried will do several times. 

Cottage Cheese, or Smearcase. 

The best plan of making this dish, is to set the tin- 
pan of clabber on a hot stove, or in a pot of water that 
is boiling over the fir«. When the whey has risen 



COFFEE. 183 

sufficiently, pour it through a colander, and put the curd 
or cheese away in a cold place, and just before going 
to table, season it with salt and pepper to your taste, 
and pour some sweet cream over it. 

Roasting Coffee. 

Pick out the stones and black grains from the coffee, 
and if it is green, let it dry in an oven, or on a stove ; 
then roast it till it is a light-brown : be careful that it 
does not burn, as a few burnt grains will spoil the 
flavor of the whole. 

White coffee need not be dried before roasting, and 
will do in less time. Two pounds is a good quantity 
to roast for a small family. The whites of one or two 
eo-o-s, well beaten, and stirred in the coffee when half 
cold, and well mixed through it, are sufficient to clear 
two pounds, and is the most economical way of using 
eggs. It will answer either for summer or winter. 
Some persons save egg shells for clearing coffee. 

Many persons use coffee roasters, — but some old 
experienced housekeepers think that the fine flavor 
flies off more than when done in a dutch-oven, and 
constantly stirred. 

If you are careful, it can be done very well in the 
dripping-pan of a stove. Let the coffee get quite cold, 
and put it away either in a canister or tight box, and 
keep it in a dry place. Coffee may be roasted in a 
dripping-pan in a brick oven. After the bread is taken 
out, there will be heat sufficient; put about two pounds 
in a pan; stir it a few times — it will roast gradually, 
and if not sufficiently brown, finish in a stove or be- 
fore the fire. If you have a large family, by using 
several pans, six pounds of coffee can thus be roasted, 
and but little time spent on it. 



184 



COFFEE TEA, ETC. 



Boiling Coffee. 

A large tea-cupful of unground coffee will be suf- 
ficient for six persons, unless they take it very strong, 
(which is injurious to health;) grind it, and put it in 
the tin pot, with half a tea-cup of cold water, and the 
white of half an egg; shake it till it is mixed; then 
pour boiling water on it, and let it stand close to the 
fire, and just come to a boil; stir it, and do not let it 
boil over; let it keep at boiling heat five or ten min- 
utes; then take it from the fire, and put in half a tea- 
cup of water to settle it; let it stand five minutes, and 
pour it off; — if you wish it particularly nice, strain it 
through a thin linen cloth, kept for the purpose; keep 
it by the fire till it goes to table. If you boil coffee 
too long, the aromatic flavor flies off. 

Tea, &c. 

Always be sure that the kettle is boiling when you 
make tea, or the flavor will not be so good ; scald the 
pot, and allow a tea-spoonful for each person. Let 
green tea draw by the fire from two to five minutes. 
Black tea should draw ten minutes, and is much more 
suitable for delicate persons than green. Persons 
with weak nerves should never drink strong tea and 
coffee. I have known instances of persons being 
afllicted with violent attacks of nervous head-ache, 
that were cured by giving up the use of tea and coffee 
altogether; and their general health was also improved 
by it. Before pouring out tea, it should be stirred 
with a spoon that the strength of each cup may be 
alike. 

Milk is the best drink for children; but if that 
cannot be had, sweetened water, with a little milk, 
will do. 



CHOCOLATE LARD. 185 

A New Mode of Preparing Chocolate, 

Have a pound of chocolate pulverized, and put in a 
)ar, with the same quantity of rice flour, and an ounce 
of arrow root; put on coals a quart of milk; when it 
boils, stir in a heaped table- spoonful of the above prep- 
aration, (dissolved in a tea-cup of water;) keep stir- 
ing it until it boils again, when pour it out; drink it 
with sugar and cream to your taste. 

This is called by some Rac-a-haut chocolate, and is 
very nice for delicate persons, as well as those in 
health 



LARD, TALLOW, SOAP AND 
CANDLES. 



Rendering Lard, 

The leaf lard should be rendered by itself, as it does 
not take so long as that with the skin on. Cut it up fine 
and put it in a clean pot with half a pmt of water; stir 
it frequently and let it boil fast at first; when the crack- 
lings are light-brown and float on the top, it is nearly 
done, and should cook slowly; when done, strain it 
into your vessels with a thin cloth put over a colander. 
If you put lard in stone or earthen jars, it should be 
cooled first, as there is danger of their cracking; white 
oak firkins with iron hoops, and covers to fit tight, are 
good to keep lard, and if taken care of will last for 
twenty years. 

The fat that has the skin on should be cut very fine, 
taking the skin off first. It takes longer to boil than 
leaf lard, and there is more danger of burning; put a 
pint of water in the pot. 



186 TALLOW SOAP. 

The skins should be boiled alone, and will do Ibi. 
soap-fat alter the lard is out of them. 

Soak the inside fat all night in salt and water; wash 
it in the morning, and put it to boil without any water in 
the pot. It is not so nice as other lard, and should be 
strained by itself. It does very well for frying. Lard 
keeps well in large tin vessels witli tight covers and is 
not apt to mould. 

Rendering Tallow, 

Cut the tallow fine, and put it to boil in a large pot 
with a quart of water; stir it frequently and keep it 
boiling moderately for six hours; when the cracklings 
begin to turn brown, it should boil very slowly till done. 

Put a little water in the bottom of your dutch-ovens 
or tin pans, anil strain it in with a cloth over the colan- 
der, or the settlings will run through and hurt tlie looks 
of your candles. 

Soap, 

It requires some care and experience to have good 
soapj but when you once get beforehand, it is easy to 
kcej) up the supply if the ashes are good. The ley- 
stand should be made of cedar or pine boards, in the 
shape of a mill-hopper, and have holes bored in the 
bottom for the ley to run through; have four posts 
planted in the ground to support it; let it be high 
enough for a small tub to set under. 

If you cannot have it under a shed, there should be 
a tight cover of boards to protect it from the rain. Put 
some sticks in the bottom of the ley-stand, and some 
straw, and pack in a bushel of ashes, then half a peck 
of lime, and when it is half full of ashes, put in two 
buckets of water, and another when you get near the 
top; pack it well, and put on some more water; then 
coyer it over; pour on hot water three times a day for 



SOAP. 



181 



■ several days. VVlien you are ready to make soap, 
have a large pot of water, which must be kept boiling, 
and put it on as fast as it will bear; save the strongest 
ley by itself; (if the ley will float an egg, it wiU 
answer;) have your soap-fat laying in strong ley 
through the winter; put a gallon of this in a large pot, 
and put to it a gallon of the strongest ley; let it boil 
an hour, stirring it often, then put in two gallons more 
of strong ley ; when this has boiled, put in weak ley 
till the pot is full; let it boil an hour or two slowly, 
and be careful that it does not go over; cool some on 
a plate, and if thick, it is done, but if not, boil it longer. 
Put it away in a tight barrel, and prepare to make 
more soap; if you have two large pots both of them 
can be kept going at the same time. Several barrels 
of soap can be made from one ley stand. A large oil 
cask is good to keep soap in. If a barrel leaks, set it 
under a spout in a rain, or fill it with water. It is of 
the greatest importance to keep the soap-fat in strong 
ley. Have an oil barrel in the cellar, half full of strong 
ley, and put in cracklings, bacon skins, pot skim- 
mings, beef bones, or any scraps ; when eaten by ley it 
will take but little boiUng. It is much the easiest and 
safest way, where there are children, to make the soap- 
without boiling. Put four gallons of soap-fat that has 
been eaten with ley, in a barrel with eight gallons of 
strong ley, stir it two or three times a day, for a week 
or two, then fill it up with weaker ley; you may have 
several barrels making at a time, so as always to have 
some for use; it takes some time to make it in this 
way. But if you are careful, and once get ahead, you 
need not boil the soap unless you prefer it so; if your 
ley is not strong, dissolve potash in hot water and add 
to strensfthen it. 



188 SOAP. 

Hard Soap, 

Have fifteen pounds ol' clean fat to twenty gallons 
of clear strong ley; let it boil until thick, when put in 
half a peck of coarse salt; if it does not curdle in two 
hours, put in more salt till it does, then pour it out in 
a tub to cool till the next day, when put on your pot 
witli some weak ley, cut the soap out of tlie tub and 
boil it in this an hour; then put it in tlie tub, let it get 
cold, cut it in squares and put it on a board to dry. 
Unless you have plenty of ashes and soap-fat, it is 
much cheaper to buy hard soap than to make it. If 
you have but a barrel full of ashes you can make a 
barrel of soap; bore a hole in the bottom of a barrel, 
put a few sticks across, when half full of ashes put in 
a quart of lime and some water; keep the hole plugged 
up till you are ready to make the soap. 

You can have a barrel of ashes put in the cellar in 
winter to use for washing and scrubbing; keep a tub 
under it to hold the ley as il drops. 

Potash Soap, 

Persons living in cities frequently have grease that 
would do to make soap, but are at a loss for ley, in 
consequence of burning coal instead of wood. Twelve 
pounds of pure grease of any kind, put with ten 
pounds of potash in an oil barrel, and filled with 
water, makes good thick soap, and is much cheaper 
than buying hard soap. It should be stirred fre- 
quently, and if the ingredients are put together in 
warm weather, and the barrel stands where it can be 
exposed to the heat of the sun, without uanger of 
getting rain in it, it will be fit for use in a few weeks 
without the aid of fire; if you wish to make soap im- 
mediately put three pounds of potash, four of grease, 



SOAP. 189 

and about ten gallons of water in a large iron pot; 
boil it over the fire, and it will make good thick soap 
in a few hours; it need only boil long enough to dis- 
solve the potash, which is sometimes in very hard 
lumps. If you use the crumbled potash, you must put 
rather more of it, as it is not so strong, and a little 
lump of quick lime will make it turn quicker. 

ANOTHER RECEIPT. 

Two days before you wish to commence your soap, 
pour about two gallons of boiling water on ten or 
twelve pounds of potash, to dissolve it; then put it in 
an iron pot or kettle, with ten gallons of rain water ; 
hang it over the fire, and when it has dissolved, pour 
twelve pounds of grease, which has been purified by 
boiling in water, (or weak ley,) into a well hooped 
barrel, (an oil barrel from which one head has been 
taken, and the bung well fastened, is best;) then pour 
the water in which the potash was dissolved over the 
grease in the barrel, and stir it for half an hour; after- 
wards fill up the barrel with cold soft water, and stir it 
every day for two weeks. If at the end of that time, 
the fat swims on the top, beat a pound or two more of 
potash fine, throw it in the barrel, stir it well, and the 
soap will be finished. 

Labor-saving Soap, 

Take two pounds sal soda, two pounds yellow bar 
soap, ten quarts of water. Cut the soap in thin slices, 
and boil all together two hours, and strain it through a 
cloth, let it cool and it is fit for use. Put the clothes 
in soak the night before you wash, and to every pail 
of water in which you boil them, add one pound of 
the soap. They will need no rubbing, merely rinse 
17 



190 SOAP. 

them out, and thev will be perfectly clean and white. 
This soap can be made lor two cents per pound. 

Ley and Soda Preparation for Washing 
Clothes. 

To sixteen gallons ot" water, put one gallon of lime 
water; twelve ounces of soft soap, or if hard soap it 
must be first melted, and four ounces of soda; put 
them together in your wash kettle, and when nearly 
boiling, put in the clothes, being careful to have them 
as much of a kind as possible; they should be wet first 
with common water; boil one hour, then wash, scald 
and blue as usual. The limestone should remain in 
the water at least "four days before it is used, and be 
about of the strength of limewater for drinking, and 
the same stone will do tor several times if good. The 
ley will do for boiling a second set of clothes by 
adding a little more, and afterwards for towels and 
coarse things. Prints and flannels must not be boiled. 

Volatile Soap, 

And Directions for Washing Clothes. 

Cut up three pounds of countrv hard soap into three 
pints of strong ley; simmer it over the fire until the 
soap i? dissolved, and add to it three ounces of pearl- 
ash: pour it into a stone jar, and stir in half a pint of 
spirits of turpentine, and a gill of spirits of hartshorn; 
cover the jar tight, and tie a cloth over it. 

To use the soap, have a tub half full of water as hot 
as you can bear your hands in; assort the clothes, and, 
Deginning with the cleanest of them, rub a small 
quantity of the soap on the soiled parts of each article, 
and immerse them in the water one by one, until it 
will cover no more: let them soak for fifteen or twenty 



CANDLES. 191 

minutes, then stir them well for a few minutes, and 
boil them for half an hour in eight or ten gallons of 
water, to which a table-spoonful of the soap has been 
added; rinse them, using blue water where it is re- 
quired as usual, and they are ready for drying. After 
the white clothes are finished, the same waters will 
answer for the colored ones, adding hot water and 
more soap. By the use of this soap, most of the 
rubbing can be dispensed w^ith, and it is not injurious 
to the texture of the clothes. It has been proved that 
the clothes washed in this way are more durable than 
with the common soaps, and the rubbing required in 
connection with them. 

It is particualrly recommended for washing flannels, 
and calicoes. The above quantity is sufficient for a 
family of four or five persons for a month, varying 
sUghtly as the clothes are more or less soiled. Its 
cheapness recommends it to all housekeepers. 

Candles, 

Weigh the tallow, then you can judge how many 
candles you can make; six and eight candles to the 
pound do very well for working and reading by; ten to 
the pound does to use in the kitchen or to carry about 
the house. Put the wicks on the rods the day before 
you expect to make candles, and dip them in a little 
melted tallow, you can then straighten them out. Have 
a large pot nearly half full of hot water; melt the tallow 
in another pot and fill it up, and keep more tallow at 
the fire to fill in as it is used out; put coals under the 
pot to keep it at a proper heat. Have poles set on 
stools about a foot apart, to support the rods; dip tlie 
rods in the pot, alternately, until they are as large as 
you wish them. Wax makes candles burn longer, but 



192 CLEAR STARCHING. 

turns them yellow. The best way is, to put in two 
pounds of wax, when you first beo;in to dip, and it will 
be used up before they are dipped the last time; when 
they are done, cut oil' the ends and put them in boxes. 
Most good managers in the country make enough 
candles at a time to last a year. If you have not 
enough tallow to dip candles, you can mould some; 
mutton tallow is very good tor this purpose. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



Cleai" Starching. 

Wash your muslins nicely; rub hard soap on them, 
and pour boiling water on ; let them lay in this half an 
hour, or if they are very yellow, boil them in water 
that has a little blue, in a bell-metal kettle; let them dry 
in the sun; boil your starch half an hour, as it will be 
clearer, and the things will take less clapping; rub the 
starch over the muslin until it is well covered, then clap 
it a few times; afterwards stretch out the muslin and 
hold it to the fire until it smokes, then stretch, clap, 
and shake it until the piece is dry enough to iron. 
WTien you begin to starch, have a pile of plates near, 
and as fast as the things are ready to ifon, fold them 
up, and put them between the plates to keep moist. 
It is a good plan to have a board about three feet long 
and a foot wide, with a piece of blanket tacked on 
round the edges, to iron your collars and handker- 
chiefs on. 



STARCH. 193 

There is an art in doing up muslins, which will take 
but little time when once it is acquired. The same 
directions answer for clear starching crape, (which 
must first be bleached as flannels are done,) and add 
some drop lake to the blue coloring. In cold weather, 
to rub your hands over with a little clean tallow pre- 
vents them from chapping, and will not alter the 
appearance of the muslin. 

To make Corn. Starch, 

Gather the corn when it is a proper age for table 
use ; have a large tin grater, and grate the corn into a 
clean vessel, into which drop the cobs as you grate 
them until the vessel is about half full; rub the cobs 
and squeeze them dry as possible, and put them into 
another vessel of clean water; rub and squeeze them 
again; the third rinsing will take all the starch out; let 
it settle, and then pour all the starch together and 
strain it through a coarse cloth, and then through a 
flannel, and let it settle until the next morning, when 
you will find a thick yellow substance under the water, 
covering the pure white article in the bottom of the 
vessel; remove the yellow substance and pour clean 
water on the starch and stir it up ; as soon as it settles 
thoroughly again, pour ofl" the water and put the starch 
on dishes, and set it in the sun to dry. When you 
want to use it, moisten it with cold water and pour 
boiling water on, till it is the right consistency for use- 
It requires nc boiling. 

Potato Starch. 

Pare the potatoes and scrape or grate them in a pan 
of water; when this is done stir them well, and let them 
stand a few minutes to settle; pour off the water and 
17* 



194 STARCH WASHING CALICOES, ETC. 

the pulp from the top ; pour water on the starch that 
has settled, and stir it up; let it settle again, when it 
will be nice and white, and may be put on plates to 
dry in tlie sun; after which it may be put away in a 
box or paper bags. It may be used immediately. Stir 
it in boiling water as other starch, but boil it much 
less. It is said that potato starch will injure muslins 
when left to lay by for some time; it is used in some 
preparations of confectionary, and answers the same 
purpose as Poland starch. 

To make Common Starch. 
Mix a pint of wheat llour with cold water, till it is 
the consistence of batter; stir it into a gallon of boiling 
water; let it boil a few minutes, when strain it and mix 
in the blue — when it is ready to thin for white clothes. 
Some put a small piece of tallow in the starch as it 
boils — it makes it clearer. 

Washing Calicoes, &c. 
Calicoes may be kept iVom fading by washing them 
in the suds after white clothes; if it requires more soap, 
stir it in the water, as putting it on the garment will 
fade it; have the water moderately warm, and put in a 
handful of salt; when all the dirt is out, rinse them m 
clean water; starch, and hang them to dry on the wrong 
side, where they will get the air but not the sun. Alum 
is good to set colors. If you want to wash a calico 
dress, which you know will fade, make a corn mush, 
and as it boils, pour off half, which use as soap in 
washins: the dress, and with the other half, (which 
should be boiled well,) starch it, and hang it out im- 
mediately. In washing bed quilts, to prevent fading, 



TABLE CLOTHS, ETC. 195 

spread them on the clean grass wrong side up; this 
prevents the colors running into each other. 

For chintz or lawn dresses have very nice starch, 
and clap it into them, after they are hung on the line ; 
they iron much better this way, and look almost like 
new; sometimes to wash the cuffs and lower part care- 
fully, and press it all over, will do without washing the 
whole dress. For ironing the skirt have a narrow 
ironing board, covered with a piece of blanket, to slip 
inside the dress. 

Table Cioths, &c. 

When two or three spots get on a table cloth, dip a 
towel in clean water and .rub them off, and -dry the 
cloth before it is put away; this saves washing, and 
if done carefully it will look like a clean cloth. If 
table cloths are stained with fruit, pour boiling water 
on the spots before soap is put on; when it is so deep 
that this will not take it out, apply lemon juice and 
salt; dry it in the sun, and put it on several times. 
You should always have cup-plates, as the marks of a 
coffee-cup spoils the appearance of a cloth, and the 
stain is hard to get out. When table cloths and towels 
get yellow", soak them in sour milk several days. Un- 
bleached table cloths are very good to save washing in 
winter, and can be laid by in summer; care should be 
taken to hang them to dry in the shade, as that will 
keep them from bleaching. New table cloths do not 
require any starch, but those that are partly worn look 
better for a little; every thing washes easier that has 
starch in. Nice table cloths, and all fine things, after 
being sprinkled and folded, should be tightly rolled up 
in towels, and ironed till perfectly dry, they will then 
retam their gloss. Large table cloths should be 



19G FLANNELS MENULMi CLOTHES. 

brushed clean from crumbs, and folded without shak 
ing, as that tumbles them ; those in daily use should be 
put under a press — a heavy book is suitable, or a boaro 
may be made for the ])urpose; they will keep in credit 
much longer than when laid in a drawer. It is well to 
put a common muslin cloth under a damask one on the 
table, as it improves the appearance. 

Flannels. 

Have the water m which you wash flannel as hot as 
you can bear your hands in, and rub the soap in the 
water, or it will shrink the flannel. The water it is 
rinsed in should also be hot. 

When flannels have become yellow and fulled up, I 
have often smoked them with brimstone, and they will 
be as white as new, and the fulled places will open. 
The best plan is to have a box or chest, with strings 
put across to hang the flannels on, and a drawer to 
pull out where you can set in a pan with coals and 
brimstone. Have the flannels nicely washed, and put 
them in wet, close it up till you think it wants more 
brimstone, when you can pull out the drawer and 
renew it. 

After tliey are bleached, they should hang up in the 
air to let the smell of the brimstone escape. If you 
have but a few things to do, you can put strings across 
the top of an old barrel, (with both the heads out,) 
cover it with a thick cloth, and lift it up to put in a 
pan of brimstone and coals. Always wash scarlet 
flannel with hard soap. 

Mending Clothes, 

All clothes should be looked over before they are put 
away, and if any require mending it must not be 



WASHING WINDOWS WASHES, ETC, 197 

neglected; a broken stitch that can be mended in a few 
minutes, if left till it has been worn again, will require 
much more time. If young housekeepers suffer their 
mending to get behind-hand, it will discourage them. 
After mending a shirt, it should be pressed before it is 
put away. If stocking heels are run while they are 
new, and the thin places darned in time, it saves much 
work. 

Washing Window^s, 

A little soda dissolved in the water is valuable for 
washing windows ; do not let it run on the sash, or it 
will stain the paint; rinse them in clear water, and 
wipe dry with a clean soft towel. When they are but 
little soiled, clear water will answer, but if smoked or 
coated with any thing, soda should be always used. 
Some persons rub their windows with soft buckskin or 
newspaper, when they are dry and clean, to give them 
a polish. 

To Make White or Colored Washes, Dyeing, &c. 

Take half a bushel of unslaked lime, slack with 
boiling water, covering it during the process to keep 
in the steam. Strain the liquid through a fine sieve or 
strainer, and add to it a peck of clean salt, previously 
dissolved in warm water, three pounds of ground rice 
boiled to a thin paste; stir in, boiling hot, one pound 
of Spanish whiting, one of clean glue, dissolved by 
Koaking it well, and simmering over a slow fire in a 
small kettle within a larger one containing water; add 
five gallons of boiling water to the whole mixture ; stir 
it well, and if you are not ready to use it, cover it 
close. It should be put on quite hot; for this pur- 
pose, it can be kept in a kettle on a portable furnace. 
Coloring matter may be added to make any shade 

m 



198 WHITE-WASH. 

desired. Spanish brown stirred in "will make a pinK 
color, more or less deep according to the quantity; a 
delicate tinge of this is very pretty for inside walls. 
Indi"-o mixed with the Spanish brown makes a delicate 
purple, or alone with the mixture, a pale blue. Lamp- 
black, in moderate quantity, makes a slate color, suita- 
ble for the outside of buildings. 

Lamp-black and Spanish brown together, produce a 
reddish stone color; yellow ochre, a yellow- wash, but 
chrome goes further and makes a brighter color. It is 
well to try on a shingle, or piece of paper, or board, 
and let it dry to ascertain the color. If you wash over 
old paper, make a sizing of wheat llour like thin starch ; 
put it on, and when dry, put on the coloring; for a 
white-washed wall, make a sizing of whiting and glue 
water. This precaution should always be taken before 
using chrome yellow or gi-een, as the previous use 
of lime injures the color of the chrome. When walls 
have been badly smoked, add to your white-wash 
sufficient indigo to make it a clear white. 

To Mix White-wash. 

Pour a kettle of boiling water on a peck of unslaked 
lime; put in two pounds of whiting, and half a pint of 
salt; when all are mixed together, put in half an ounce 
of Prussian blue, finely powdered; add water to make 
it a proper thickness to put on a wall. 

"White-'wash for Buildings or Fences. 

Put in a barrel, one bushel of best unslaked lime; 
pour on it two buckets of boiling water, and when it is 
mixed put in six pounds of fine whiting; fill up the 
barrel with water; stir it well, and keep it covered from 
the rain; let it stand several day^ before you use it. 



YELLOW-WASH, 199 

when stir it up; thin it with milk as you use it, and 
put half a pint of salt to each bucket full. This makes 
a durable wash for a rough-cast or frame house, or for 
fences; the salt prevents it from peeling off. 

Chrome Yellow--wash. 

Mix four pounds of whiting with as much water as 
will go over the room; dissolve a tea-cupful of glue, 
and put in; then wash the walls with this to prevent 
the lime from affecting the chrome; if they come in 
contact, the walls will be striped, and will not look at 
all well. Mix a wash of whiting, w^ater and glue, and 
color it with two pounds of chrome yellow. After 
walls have been yellow, and you want to have them 
white, they must be washed over with whiting and 
glue, and then white-washed in the usual way. 

Yello-w Ochre-"wash. 

Dissolve a pound of glue in hot water, and stir into 
it three pounds of yellow ochre, and one of whiting; 
mix it well, and thin it with water or skim milk. It iS 
a suitable wash for a common room or kitchen. 

Lamp-black mixed with molasses, and put in white- 
wash, makes a good color for a kitchen. 

To Dye Orange Color, 

For five pounds of woolen yarn, have one pound 
of annotta ; dissolve it in boihng water, and put it in a 
pot of soft water with half a pound of pearl-ash; boil 
tliem ten minutes, stirring it well; wet the yarn in 
soap-suds; put it in, and let it boil twenty minutes; 
then hang it in the sun, and when dry, if it is not 
deep enough, dip it in again; and after it is thoroughly 
dry, wash it in soap and water. 



200 GREEN-WASH DYES. 

G-reen-Tvash. 

Take four pounds of blue vitriol, pound it fine, and 
mix with it three pounds of best whiting, and half a 
pound of potash; pour on them six quarts of boiling 
water, and mix in half a pound of glue dissolved in 
water. Wash tiie walls with whiting before it is put on. 

Chrome Yellow for Dyeing Carpet Rags. 

Dissolve the clirome in warm water in an earthen 
vessel; dip the rags in vinegar and water, then in the 
chrome dye, and hang in tiic sun to dry. This color 
will stand for years in a rag carpet, and is very little 
trouble. Six cents worth of chrome will dye several 
jiounds. 

To Dye a Dark Drab. 

For ten jiounds of I'oliou or wool, has e half a bushel 
of maple bark, the same of sumach berries, and a peck 
f)f walnut hulls or bark; put a layer of this in an iron 
jiot, and a layer of the wool, till all is in; cover it 
with water, and boil it slowly for three hours, keeping 
the pot fdled with water; then hang it out, and when 
dr^-, wash one skein, and if it is not dark enough, 
strain the c\\v, and put in a tea-cup of copperas; put 
in the yarn, and let it scald a few minutes; take it out, 
dry it, anri wash it well with soft soap and watei'. 

To Dye Cotton or Woollen Black, 

To each jiound ol' yarn, have one ounce ol' copperas, 
nine of logwood, a handful of salt, and a quart of 
good vinegar, which boil with copperas ten minutes in 
a brass kettle; shave the logwood, and boil it in an 
iron pot; when the color is extracted, strain it into the 
vinegar; put in the yarn, and let it simmer twenty 



DYES. 201 

minutes, stirring it ; then hang it in the air, and if it is 
not black enough, boil it over. You should have a 
clear day to do all coloring in. 

Cedar Dye. 

Boil the boughs of cedar in two or three gallons of 
water, lor several hours, in an iron vessel; strain it off, 
add half a tea-spoonful of copperas, put it on the fire, 
and put in the articles you wish to dye ; let them boil 
a few minutes, then hang them up to dry. This will 
dye sage color, and can be used for cotton, woollen or 
silk, and has the advantage of retaining its color. 

The cedar boughs should be used in the fall of the 
year, when the berries are on them. Pear bark is an 
improvement and makes the color darker. 

To Dye Olive. 

Make a strong sage tea, and add copperas and alum 
till it is dark; strain it; dip the cloth or silk in weak 
soap-suds, and then in the dye, and air it, till it is the 
color you wish. 

Maple bark and copperas make a good dark color 
for common purposes. 

To Dye Yellow. 

Boil peach leaves when they are turning yellow in 
the fall, with a little alum. 

Onion skins boiled with alum make a good yellow. 

To Dye Brown. 

Take young walnuts, with some of the leaves and 

bark; wash your wool in soap-suds; put a layer of it 

in a barrel, and a layer of the walnuts; fill it up with 

water, and put a weight on the top; at the end of a 

18 



202 DVES. 

\v(.fk wring it out, and let it hiy in tlie hot sun twc 
liours; put it back in the dye, and at the end of another 
week, sun it again; keep it in until sufficiently dark, 
when wash it in soap-suds. This makes a pretty 
brown that will not fade, and is stronger than wIilii 
dyed with copperas. 

To Dye Red. 

To four pounds of yarn, take one pound of fine 
alum, and boil it in as much water as will cover the 
yarn; put in the yarn, and let it boil gently half an 
iiour; then take it out and dry it; make a dye of two 
])ounds of madder, and two ounces of crude tartar 
pulverized, and boil it; then put in the yarn, and let it 
boil half an hour; take it out and air it, and if it is not 
dark enough, put it in again, and boil it longer. 

Brazil Wood Dye. 
Tie two pounds of -red or J3razil wood in a thin bag, 
and boil it for several hours in a brass or copper kettle 
in water; take out the Brazil wood and add a pound of 
alum, then put the rags in, and let them boil some time; 
hang them in the sun, and dry without washing them. 
This will dye woolen red, and cotton pin/c. Washing 
in soap suds will change it to purple. 

Lead Color. 

Take four ounces of red wood, two of logwood, hall 
an ounce of pounded nut-galls, and quarter of a pound 
of green copperas; boil them in ten gallons of water, 
and strain it; wash the wool or cloth in soap-suds, put 
it in, and let it remain till it is as dark as you wish it; 
dry it in the sun, and wash it in soap-suds. 

Sugar paper, boiled in vinegar, makes a good lead 
color for stockings. 



203 



To Dye Scarlet, 

Take one pound of blood root, and one pound of 
madder, boil them in six gallons of ley, then stir them 
three or four times in twenty- four hours, till there are 
signs of fermentation. This dyes ten pounds of cotton 
or linen. 

To Dye Yarn Green. 

Take one ounce of best Spanish indigo, finely pow- 
dered, and half a pound of oil of vitriol; put them in 
a bottle, and let them stand in the sun a week; shake 
it often, but do not cork it tight, lest it should burst 
the bottle; take four pounds of black-oak bark, and 
the same of hickory, shave them fine, and soak them 
till wet through ; then boil them in ten gallons of water 
till all the color is extracted; when take out the chips, 
put in a pound of alum ; shake the bottle of indigo 
and vitriol, and pour it in; let them boil together a few 
minutes, and put in the yarn; turn it over several times, 
and let it boil half an hour; then spread it out in the* 
sun for about an hour, and wash it well in strong soap- 
suds through two waters, to keep it from becoming 
tender. This will color ten pounds of yarn. You 
may have a fine blue color by omitting the bark. It 
will not answer for any thing but wool or silk, as the 

vitriol will destroy linen or cotton. 

• 

To Dye Cotton Blue. 

Boil a pound of chipped logwood in water enough 
to cover the cotton; take out half a gallon, and dis- 
solve in it an ounce of verdigris, and one of alum; 
boil the yarn in the logwood water an hour, stirring it, 
and keeping it loose; then take it out, and mix in the 
verdigris; put back the yarn, and let it boil four hours; 



204 APPLES MATRESStS. 

stir all the time, and take it out every hour to give it 
air; dry it in the sun, and the next day boil it in soap- 
suds. This will dye six pounds of cotton a deep blue. 
After it is done, you may put in as much more, and it 
will dye a pale blue. 

To Keep Apples in Winter. 

Pick them carefully, so as not to bruise tliem; put 
them in an out-house, exposed to tlie north, either in 
boxes, or barrels, or lying in heaps; after they have 
been several weeks in this situation, pick them over 
and put tliem in barrels which should be headed; if the 
weatlier is not severe, let them remain in this cold 
situation as long as it will be safe, without their being 
frozen, then remove tJiem to the cellar. Do not shut 
the windows till the severe weather comes on. Some 
persons pack them in dry chafl', or sand, and put them 
in barrels and boxes in a cool garret. 

Directions for Making Matresses, 

If yuu liave an old curled hair matress, you can 
make two, that will be equally useful as tliose that are 
composed of curled hair, by using cotton and hackled 
corn husks, in alternate layers with tlie hair. 

Some persons use a quantity of green corn, and 
save all the husks, and strip them with a fork, or 
hackle, and spread them on a garret floor to dry; they 
are nicer in this state than prepared from the dry husk; 
but if you have not sufficient, take the dry husks from 
corn that has been stripped off the top and blade in the 
field, and have it hackled as flax; for one matress, 
have as much as will fill two flour barrels tightly 
packed; sixteen pounds of refuse cotton, (such as is 
sometimes sold very low at the factories,) and half the 



MATRESSES. 205 

liair of" an old matress, (which should be well picked;) 
measure the bedstead you wish it for, and allow to 
each breadth of the ticking, a quarter of a yard in 
length over; for a small matress less should be al- 
lowed, and the same in width, (as it takes up in 
making;) cut the side strips as deep as you wush the 
matress, fit the corners, cut out a place for the foot 
posts, or fit each end square alike; after the bottom 
and sides are sewed together, run a tuck all round to 
save binding, sew the tick in a quilting frame, and 
stay it to the end pieces as a quilt; put a table under 
to support the weight, (which can be shifted as it is 
sewed;) first put a layer of hair, then cotton, then 
husks alternately, till it is done; be careful to let the 
hair be next the ticking; put some all round the sides 
and edges. When all is in, put on the top, and baste 
it down with strong thread; then with a chalk linp 
strike across, to form squares to sew it by. Have a 
long needle prepared and polished smoothly, threaded 
with twine, or several strans of strong shoe thread; 
this should be w^ell waxed, and long enough to go 
through and back again ; have tufts, or two pieces of 
strong cloth prepared, to secure the stitches on both 
sides; one person should be under the frame, to pull 
the needle through and put it back; it should be tied 
tightly as possible; when you have done stitching, the 
matress should be sewed all round, taken out of the 
frame and the raw edges bound. They can be made 
of cotton and husks, without hair, or cotton alone. 
Those that have sheep can use the coarse wool, (and 
such as is not profitable for manufacturing,) with the 
husks, it is more elastic than cotton. Many persons 
are deprived of one of the greatest comforts in sum- 
mer, and sleep on feathers, when a little care in pre- 
18* 



206 RAG CARPET FURS, ETC. 

paring the materials, and putting them together would 
furnish your chambers with the most healthy anc 
pleasant beds; a large cotton sheet should be kept on 
a matress, or a case made of unbleached muslin, this 
covering should be occasionally washed and starched. 
If you cannot get husks, straw will answer, or hay. 

To Make a Rag Carpet. 
Ten pounds of purple warp, ten of green, four of 
yellow, seven of red, will make a pretty stripe, mingled 
and arranged according to your fancy; the above quan- 
tity of warp, with fifty-eight pounds of rags will make 
forty-two yards, yard wide. In most cities warp can 
be purchased ready colored. A very good proportion 
is a pound and aquailcr of rags, and three-quarters 
of a pound of warp to the yard. Save all the scraps 
in cutting out work; have a bag for tlie purpose hang- 
ing in a convenient place, and when you have leisure 
cut them. Old muslin garments that are not worth 
giving away, may be torn in strips and colored. In 
cutting out clothes for boys, from men's garments, 
there will always be scraps and strips. By purchasing 
a little red flannel to mix in, the appearance is im- 
proved. A carj)et wears cleaner to be about one-third 
cotton, and two-thirds woollen rags to mix the colors. 
Do not sew a strip that is longer than three yards, and 
the cotton siiould be much shorter, as the warp is 
usually of tiiat material, tiiere is more danger from 

fire. 

To Keep Furs and Woollens. 

Crack the grains of black pepper, and sprinkle in 
among your furs and woollen clothes; after they have 
been shaken and aired, fold them smooth and put 
them in linen bags or sheets; ke^ them in a large 



CURTAINS BLANKETS CARPETS. 207 

trunk or dark closet, and look at them once through 
the summer to see that they are safe. Tobacco and 
camphor are also good to pack them in, but the smell 
continues with them a long time, and is disagreeable 
to some persons. They should be well shaken and 
aired before they are worn. 

To Keep Curtains. 

Take the curtains down in the spring, shake them 
carefully and brush the dust from them; let them air a 
day, but not so that the sun will fade them; then fold 
them neatly, and pin them up in sheets. 

Moreen or worsted curtains require the same care as 
woollen cloths. 

To Keep Blankets in Summer. 

If you have any blankets that are soiled and require 
washing in the spring, have it nicely done; when they 
are perfectly dry, put them on a bedstead in a spare 
chamber, keeping out one to use on each bed through 
the summer; spread a large sheet over; tuck under all 
round, and secure the corners with pins; this will keep 
them from dust and moths, and makes a good bed to 
use in hot weather. 

Carpets, &c. 

When you take up carpets in the spring to put down 
matting, have them well shaken, and if there are any 
spots on them, they should be washed off with a stiff 
brush and dried ; if there is oil or grease spilt on them, 
mix up whiting or nice clay with water; spread it on 
both sides of the spot, and baste thick paper over it. 
When dry, fold it up the size of a bedstead, and pin a 
coarse sheet round it. In this way they will be secure 
from moths, and the addition of a few quilted comforts 



208 LINEN PAINT UEDSTEADS. 

on the top, makes a very pleasant betl in summer 
The small moth-fly appears early in the summer, and 
should always be destroyed when seen, as the moth is 
produced from the eggs which they deposit in wool- 
lens; by being careful to kill them when they first come, 
a house may be kept nearly clear of them. Select the 
softest brooms for sweeping carpets, as stiff ones wear 
them out. 

House Linen. 

Have a book in which to set down all the bed and 
table linen, towels and na})kius; every article of which 
should be marked and numbered, and counted at least 
once a month. 

To Clean Paint. 

Rub some whiting very fine on a plate; have ready 
some clean warm water, and a piece of flannel, which 
diji in the water and squeeze very dry; then take as 
much whiting as will stick to the flannel, and rub the 
paint to remove dust or grease, then wash it well with 
clean water and wipe it dry with a soft cloth. 

Bran boiled in water, and left to settle, is very good 
to clean paint; use a soft cloth or flannel; it will take 
off" fly specks and impart a gloss to the j)aint; wipe it 
quite dry. Unless soap is used with great care, it will 
injure paint. 

Varnished paint requires nothing but clean warm 
water and to be wiped dry. 

To Clean Bedsteads. 

In the summer, bedsteads should be brushed and 
searched every week; if they are infested with bugs, 
boil the sackini:; in ley and water, or put it in an 
oven, on some boards, after the bread is taken out, 
to kill the eggs ; fill a large bottle with red pepper pods 



FLOORS. 209 

of the strongest kind, and fill it up with vinegar; put 
tliis in each crack of the bedsteads every morning, 
until they entirely disappear; never omit to search the 
bedsteads longer than a week. It is a good way to fill 
up ah the cracks of the bedsteads with resin soap. 
After they are cleaned, move the bed from the wall and 
fill up every crack in the plastering with calcined 
plaster and water, or putty. 

Sometimes bed-bugs are brought in the cleanest 
houses before the family are aware of it. When per- 
sons return from travelling, the trunks should always 
be examined before they are taken into the chambers, 
or put away; a little care at the proper time will pre- 
vent much trouble. Some persons scald their bed- 
steads with boiling vinegar; the acid is said to dissolve 
the shell of the egg. If poison is used, great care is 
necessary. 

It is said that lard is good to use on bedsteads that 
are infested with bugs; the grease prevents their 
increase. All the cracks should be filled after the 
bedstead has been w^ell searched. 

To Clean Floors. 

Scour all the spots with soap and sand, then go all 
over with the long scrubbing brush, a few boards at a 
time; rinse it well and wipe it dry. A floor that has 
been well cleaned, and dried without being walked on, 
will keep clean much longer than one that has been 
half done ; too much soap or ley makes a floor look 
yellow. 

Bare floors are very pleasant in summer, and when 
they get a few spots, they can be taken out with dry 
white sand, and a shoe-sole, and will not need scrub- 
ing more than two or three times in a summer. 



210 CELLARS RATS, ROACHES. 

Cleaning Cellars.— Rats, Roaches. 

In the spring, cellars should be swept, aiul all refuse 
vegetables taken out; if left till warm weather, the) 
will become putrid, and endanger the health of your 
family. The sprouts should be rubbed from the pota- 
toes; all the barrels should be moved and swept under. 
Have boards laid on the floor for meat and fish barrels, 
and after they are emptied, have them washed and 
drained ready for use. Empty flour barrels should be 
swept out and the heads and hoops saved. Have lime 
sprinkled over the cellar floor twice during the summer, 
or oftener if it should be necessary. If the windows 
are kept shut in warm weather, the air will be unwhole- 
some. Do not trust to servants, examine and see that 
it is done thoroughly. 

The apartments where cold meat and milk are kept 
should be cobwcbbed and swept once a week, and the 
safe washed out at least that often. If the cellar is 
paved with brick, keep a part of it washed clean, to set 
cold meat and milk on; cover them with tin pans and 
put a weight* on the top if rats are troublesome. If 
there are rat holes have them stopped with pieces of 
brick, and broken glass bottles; never use ratsbane 
without the greatest caution, as it is a dangerous 
remedy. No food or milk should be in the cellar at the 
time, and keep it locked up all the while it is there. I 
have heard of lives being lost by it. Have water set 
about in pans for the rats to drink, and after three 
days, clear it all aw.ay and have the cellar cleaned and 
aired before putting any thing in it. Several persons 
have been in great danger from burning the arsenic; 
when it is used it should be put deep in tlie ground and • 
covered up. 



CARPETS PICKING GEESE. 211 

Mice are kept under by a good cat, and traps. If 
roaches are troublesome, set bowls or deep dishes, with 
molasses and a plate on the top, with room for them to 
get in, and set it close to a wall. I have seen hun- 
dreds caught in this way in one night, and it is much 
safer than setting any thing poisonous about the kitchen 
or pantry. They should be burnt in the morning, and 
the dishes set again at night. If you find a closet 
infested with ants, remove every thing that will attract 
them, scald and clean it well, and they will soon leave 
it. It is said that strips of cotton or linen dipped in 
spirits of turpentine, and placed about the closets, will 
drive them away. 

Mats should be placed at all the outside doors, and 
at the top and bottom of the cellar stairs. 

Putting Straw under Carpets. 

It is thought that carpets wear better when straw is 
spread over the floor before they are put down, and it 
will prevent the dust from rising so much. Care should 
be taken to have them well tacked down, as it is dan- 
gerous on account of fire. Where straw is used, they 
may be kept down a much longer time without being 

shaken. 

Picking Geese, &c. 

When you pick geese and ducks, have a tub of boil- 
ing water; dip each one in, turning it over to let every 
part be well scalded, and as each one is scalded, wrap 
it up in a cloth, and when they are nearly cold, pick 
them. In this way the pen feathers are loosened, and 
they can be picked much cleaner. Wetting the feathers 
does not hurt them if they are well dried. They should 
be put in bags, and frequently sunned. Baking them 
in the oven after the bread comes out, cures them more 



212 MARBLE FEATHER BEDS, ETC. 

thoroughly than any other way. Turkey and chicken 
feathers are not so good for beds as goose and duck ; 
they may be picked in the same way. 

Marble, &c. 

Marble mantles should be washed but seldom; wipe 
off spots with a damp clotii, and rub them dry. 
Hearths .should be washed with soap anil water. When 
there is a spot of grease, mix clay or whiting with solt 
soap, and put on. Soap-stone hearths maybe scoured 
with soaj) and fine sand, and washed off. 

To Restore Colors taken out by Acid, &c. 

Hartshorn rubljcd on a silk or woollen garment will 
restore the color without injuring it. Spirits of turpen- 
tine is good to take grease or drops of paint out of 
cloth; ap])ly it till the jiaint can be scraped off. Rub 
French chalk or magnesia on silk or ribbon that has 
been greased and hold near the fire; this will absorb 
the grease so that it may be brushed off. 

To make New Feather Beds, 

In making new feather beds, jiut halt' a pound of 
cayenne, and half a pound of black pepper in each 
bed ; this will prevent the moths from getting into new 
feathers that have not been well cured. It is best to 
air your beds frequently, and shake them up, even if 
they are not slept in. It is the oil in the feathers that 
makes them smell bad, and when in constant use the 
heat of the body dries it up gradually; when beds or 
pillows have acquired this unpleasant smell, open them 
and put a few pounded cloves in each. 

When new beds are covered with cases, the moth 
will sometimes eat through without its being dis- 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 213 

covered. Covers also prevent the air from sweetening 
the feathers, and \vhen new they should never be 
covered unless in use. When beds are slept on, it is 
best to have a thick cotton sheet, or if it is cold 
weather, a blanket between the under sheet and the 
bed, and have them washed and aired occasionally. 

To Clean Silver. 

Wash the silver in soda water, rub it with %vhiting, 
and polish it with a piece of dry buckskin. Embossed 
silver requires a stiff brush. Another way is to let the 
silver lay in chalk and water for an hour, then take it 
out, and wipe it dry on flannel; polish it with a 
piece of buckskin. 

Britannia Ware, 

First wash it clean in soap-suds, then rub it with a 
woollen cloth and whiting, and polish off with dry 
buckskin. 

Brass. 

First rub the brasses with turpentine, vinegar or 
whiskey, then with rotten-stone and a woollen cloth, 
and polish off with a piece of soft leather. 

For brasses that have been long out of use, chalk 
and vinegar may be used. 

To Clean Stoves or Grates, 

Have the stove slightly warm, and if there is rust on 
it rub it off with a dry brush ; mix some black lead or 
British lustre wnth boiling water, rub it on a small part 
of the stove at a time, and polish it with a stiff brush. 
If the stove needs but little cleaning, wet the spots with 
water, dust a little lead on the brush and rub it quickly. 
The black lead should be washed off several times a 
19 



214 MISCELLANLOUS RECEIPTS. 

year, and then renewed. Sheet iron stoves should be 
rubbed with a woollen cloth, as a brush is apt to streak. 
The lead may be mixed with the white of an egg in 
cold water. Alum water is good to mix lustre; it 
prevents the stove from rusting. 

To polish tlie hearth of a Franklin stove, rub it over 
with a piece of grindstone, or use coarse sand with the 
sole of a shoe; when it begins to look bright, polish it 
with pumice stone. 

Cement to Mend Cracks in Stoves. 

Take two parb ul a^hL•s, lliree ol clay, and one 
of sand ; mix tliein well together witli water, and put 
It on when the stove is cold. It is also good to stop 
a leak in a roof. 

Fire-proof Cement. 

Slack a peck of lime in bulling water; put into it 
three pounds of salt, three of brown sugar, and one of 
alum; mix them well together, and color it with lamp- 
black or ochre. This has been recommended to put 
on the roof of a building that is exposed to fire. 

To Take Spots out of Mahogany. 

Put a piece of paper on the spot, and hold a warm 
iron over it, then rub it with a waxed cloth. If furni- 
ture is hurt with flies, it should be well washed with a 
cloth, and rubbed with a cork and a waxed cloth. 

Varnished furniture should be first rubbed with 
sweet oil, and tlien with a waxed cloth. 

To Take Grease out of Floors. 

Mix clay or fullers' earth with ley, and put a thick 
coat on the grease spot; scrape it off every few days. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 215 

and put on more. To put soft soap on the place, and 
rub it over with a hot iron, will take out the grease. 

Wash for Hearths. 

Mix red ochre in milk, and put it on the hearths with 
a brush. 

Blacking for Boots and Shoes, 

Take one ounce of vitriolic acid, one wine-glass 
of olive oil, two ounces of ivory black, an ounce ot 
gum arable, a quart of vinegar, and a tea-cup of mo- 
lasses ; put the vitriol and oil together, then add the ivory- 
black and other ingredients; when all are well mixed, 
bottle it. 

To Make Boots and Shoes Water-proof. 

Take one pint of linseed oil, one ounce of Burgundy- 
pitch, two of beeswax, and two of spirits of turpentine; 
melt them carefully over a slow fire. With this you 
may rub new or old shoes in the sun, or at a short 
distance from the fire, and they will last longer, never 
shrink, and keep out water. 

To Make Blacking for Morocco Shoes, 

Pound some black sealing wax, and put in a bottle 
with half a pint of alcohol; shake it frequently, and 
when it is dissolved, you may rub it on morocco shoes 
when they are scaled or defaced, and they will look 
almost like new; dry it on in the sun. 

To Grease Eggs for Winter. 

In the spring when eggs are plenty and cheap, it is 
very well to put up several hundred, to use in the 
winter, when it is very difficult to get them, even in 
the country. 



216 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

Grease each egg with sweet lard, and as you do so, 
lay them in a keg or jar, or old tin vessels that are out 
of use; put them in a dry closet and keep them covered 
over; if they are put in the cellar, they are liable to 
mould, which spoils them entirely. Do not put in any 
cracked ones, or they will injure the rest. 

In this w;iv tlu'V have been known to keep a year, 
and were nearly as good for puddings, or batter cakes, 
as fresh c'-j'-s. They do not do to boil, or make pound 
or sponge cake, as they lose part of their lightening 
property. 

To Keep Eggs in Lime "Water. 

Pour two gidhuis of liol watt-r on a })int of lime and 
half a pint of salt ; put the eggs in a jar or keg, and 
when it is cold, pour it over them, and put them in a 
cellar to keep ; be sure that there are no cracked ones. 
EfcTs may be kept a month or longer, spread out 
separately on dishes, so as one will not lay on another. 
Thev will keep best in a dark closet. 

To Clean Soiled Eggs. 
When egf^s are discolored Iroui laying on tiie ground, 
wash them first in strong vinegar, and then in cold 
water, and wipe them dry on a soft towel. 

Chloride of Lime. 
A few spoonsful of chloride of lime dissolved in 
some water in a bowl or saucer, is very useful to purify 
the apartment of an invalid, or in any case where there 
is an unpleasant smell, of any kind. It is a cheap 
article, and should always be kept convenient where 
there is sickness in the house. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 217 

To Take Lime out of Cloth. 

Lime spots on woollen clothes may be effectually 
removed, by putting a little strong vinegar on the part, 
which completely neutralizes the lime, and does not 
usually effect the color; but it will be safest to wash it 
over with a cloth dipped in water, and rub it till nearly 
dry. 

Hartshorn and alcohol mixed together are very useful 
m taking spots out of cloth or merino, applied with 
something that will not leave lint. 

To Take Was or Spermaceti out of Cloth. 

Hold a red hot flat-iron within an inch or two of the 
cloth, and this will make the wax or spermaceti evapo- 
rate entirely; then rub the place with a towel (that is 
free from lint) or clean brown paper. 

To Remove a Stopper from a Decanter. 

Wet a cloth with hot water and wrap it round the 
neck of the bottle; this will cause the glass to expand, 
and the neck will be enlarged so as to allow of the 
stopper to be withdrawn without any trouble. 

Precautions against Fire. 

Perhaps it may not be improper to remark that 
houses have been saved from being destroyed by fire 
at night, by there having been buckets of water left in 
the kitchen. 

Never go to bed without seeing that there is a supply 
in readiness. Housekeepers should also arrange their 
family affairs so as to have as little going about with 
lights by servants as possible. Chimneys should be 
swept at proper intervals, and if you burn them, let it 
be on a rainy morning and never at night 
19* 



218 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

To Take Ink and Stains out of Linen. 

Dip the spotted part in pure melted tallow, then 
wash out the tallow and the ink will come out with it. 
If you get a stain of fruit of any kind on linen, boil a 
little new milk, and dip the parts in and out for a few 
minutes; this must be done before any water is used, 
or it will not be likely to succeed. Oxalic acid, or 
salt and lemon juice are gooil, and care should be taken 
to rinse the articles well after the application. 

Herbs, Gardens and Yards. 

If you have a garden, be careful to raise herbs, both 
for cooking and to use in sickness. Parsley, thyme, 
sage and sweet marjoram occupy very little room in a 
garden, and cannot very well be dispensed with for 
kitchen use; and every family should have a bunch of 
wormwood; it is a fine tonic, either made while fresh, 
cut fine, with cold water, or after it has been dried, 
made with boiling water. Tansey is also a useful 
herb. Hoarhound is excellent for coughs, and is par- 
ticularly useful in consumptive complaints, either as a 
syrup or made into candy. l^;ilin is a cooling drink 
in a fever. Catnip tea is useful when you have a cold, 
and wish to produce a perspiration, and is good for 
infants that have the colic. Garlic is good for colds, 
and for children that have the croup; you should have 
some taken up in the fall to use through the wmter. 
The root of elecampane gathered in the fall, scraped, 
sliced, and strung with a needle and thread to dry, 
wul keep its strength for several years, and is useful 
for a coun-h with hoarhound. Rue is a valuable herb; 
a tea made of it and sweetened is good for worms. 
It is not expected that persons living in a town 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 219 

should have room in their garden for herbs, but they 
are generally to be purchased at market, and should 
always be kept in the house, as sometimes in the winter 
they are much needed when it is difficult to find them. 

Herbs should be spread out on a cloth to dry; turn 
them every day; when dry, put them in thick paper 
bags, and close up the top, so as to exclude the air. 
They can be kept hanging up, or laid on the shelf of a 
closet, where they will not be affected by damp. 

Such herbs as sage, thyme and sweet marjoram, 
when thoroughly dry, should be pounded, sifted, and 
corked in bottles. Parsley should be cut fine with a 
pair of scissors, dried, and put in bottles; it is nearly 
as good this way as when fresh; keep it in a dark 
closet. 

Where you have a garden, do not throw away the 
soap-suds that are left from washing, as they are very 
good to water herbs and flowers. 

It is very important to have early vegetables. A gar- 
den that is spaded, or ploughed in the winter, is ready 
to plant much earlier. There are many things that will 
bear the spring frosts without injury, and if planted early 
w^ill be ready to grow when the fine weather comes. 
Tomatoes should be sowed in boxes or a hot-bed to be 
ready to transplant. 

The scrapings of a cellar are good to put in ihe 
garden to enrich it. Ashes sprinkled on a yard, or 
grass plat, will keep down the coarse grass, and 
produce white clover. 

The grass should be cut out of a brick pavement 
with a knife, and boiling ley poured on to kill the roots. 

Seeds should be saved as they ripen, from the finest 
plants ; they should be kept in a box with a tight lid to 
keep them from mice. 



220 MISCELLANEOrS RECEIPTS. 

Greasers for Bake-irons, 

Take pieces ot' lat iVom the back bone, or chine of 
poiflc; cut them in pieces of half a pound each; leave 
tlie skin on; salt them. They will do to grease the 
bake-iron where you have buckwheat cakes every 
morning in winter, and should be kept in a cool place; 
after remaining in salt several weeks, they may be 
hung up in an airy place. This is nicer than suet. 

Cement for the Tops of Bottles or Jars. 

Take cijual parts of rosin and brick-dust pounded 
fine; a lump of beeswax; stew them together, and 
keep in an old tin, melting it when you want to seal 
your bottles or jars. 

Cement for Mending Cast-iron. 

To mend a crack or sand hole in an iron pot, beat 
up the while of an egg, and mix equal weight of salt 
and sifted ashes; work it very smooth and fill up the 
crack, let it harden before it is used. If it is a large 
sand hole you wish to mend, put in a rivet and secure 
it with the cement, if it gets loose it is easily fastened 
by the same process. 

Weather Proof Cement. 

Take of fine sand one part, two of clay, three of 
ashes; mix with linseed oil to the consistency required. 
Put it on with a towel or brush. It is said to become 
as hcird as marble. 

To Cleanse Vials, &c. 

Put ashes and water in each one, and boil them in 
water, letting them heat gradually. Pie plates may be 
cleansed in the same way. Iron pots that have been 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 221 

used for boiling milk, may be cleaned by boiling ashes 
and watei in them. 

Mending China with Milk. 

China can be mended if not too badly broken, by 
boiling it in skim milk, it should be entirely clear of 
cream, or the oily particles will prevent its adhesion. 
Tie the pieces with tape or fine cord, put them into a 
kettle of cold milk, and let them boil two hours, then 
take it off the fire, and when cold take the china out, 
and set it away; let it stand for several months. China 
pitchers, tea-pot lids, cup-plates and dishes, have been 
used for years after being mended in this way. 

Mending China -with White Lead. 

Take the bottom of an old paint keg, and carefully 
with a small knife, put it on the edge of glass or china, 
close the parts together, and place away; if badly 
broken, mend the small parts first, and set away; then 
when dry, putty the edges you wish to join carefully, 
and set on the top shelf of a closet, where it will be 
undisturbed for a year. 

Linseed Oil for Furniture. 

For polishing mahogany or walnut furniture, (that 
has never been varnished} linseed oil has been recom- 
mended. It possesses a tendency to harden and be- 
come solid, on long exposure to the air. It is this 
peculiar quality that renders it useful in its application 
to furniture. Rub the furniture you wish to pohsh 
(having previously washed all the wax from it with 
soap and water) all over with the oil; a small piece of 
sponge is suitable for the purpose , let it remain a few 
minutes so as to sink in the wood; then rub it in with 



222 MISCELLAXi:OUS RECEIPTS. 

a soft cloth, and again with a clean cloth. Do this 
every other day and your table will soon be tit to use 
for breakfast or tea without fear of spoiling the polish; 
when you wash it off it should be done with plain 
warm water, as soap will injure it. It is best not to 
use a table till it has had several rubbings wiht the oil, 
and then apply it once a week. The pores being filled 
with the application it becomes hard. Always give a 
table that is in use a rub with a dry cloth every 
morning. 

For Filtering Water. 
Put a thick laver ol' pouiuled charcoal, (say six 
inches,) at the bottom of a large earthen flower-pot; 
over this, lay a bed of fine sand, which has been 
washed, (to prevent its giving a taste to the water;) 
pour the water in the filterer and put a large stone 
pitcher under to receive it. 

ON A LARGER SCALE. 

Prepare a tight barrel by charring it on the inside, 
(by having some hickory or oak shavings burnt in it,) 
then put in half a peck of quick lime, and fill it with 
water. After the lime water has stood in the barrel for 
two weeks, it will be ready for use. 

This preparation of the barrel is necessary to remove 
the acid from the wood, which would communicate an 
unpleasant taste to the water. 

Fit a partition in the barrel, ( perforated with many 
holes,) about three inches from the bottom of the barrel, 
and having put in a tube, to go down from the top 
through the partition nearly to the bottom, put on the 
perforated partition some broken charcoal, then finer 
charcoal a foot thick, then about a foot of clean washed 
sand. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 223 

To use this filter pour the water through the tube, 
(which should be open at the top like a funnel;) the 
water runs to the bottom, and filters upward, leaving 
all the impurities at the bottom. 

The pure water is drawn off from the top of the 
barrel by means of a spile or faucet. 

To Keep Water Cool in Summer, when you 
have not Ice. 

Where you live at a distance from water, and wish 
to keep it cool, put a large stone vessel in the coldest 
place you can find ; fill it with water, cover it with a 
towel and wrap a wet cloth around it ; this wdll keep 
it cool for some hours, which is a comfort in warm 
weather. 

To Purify "Water, 

To put a small lump of lime into your water-cask is 
useful. Agitating and exposing it to the air, will help 
to keep it fresh. 

Strain muddy water through a sieve, in w^hich a 
cloth or sponge, (or a layer of fine sand or charcoal,) 
has been placed. 

Hard water may be softened and rendered suitable 
for washing, by adding to every twelve gallons of 
water, about a quarter of a pound of sal soda. 

Gum Arabic Paste. 

Pulverize in a mortar an ounce of gum arable, pour 
on boiling water and stir it till dissolved; do not put 
too much water. If you wish to keep this paste any 
length of time, put it in a wide-mouthed phial, and 
pour alcohol over it; keep it corked, and as you use it, 
you may thin it with water if required ; put it on with 
a feather or brush. 



224 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

Preserving Kettles. 

Bell-meliil, copper aiui brass kettles require very 
nice cleaning immediately before they are used, or it 
will endanger your health. Vinegar with salt or ashes 
should be used; save the vinegar tliat is left in the 
pickle jars for this purpose. 

To Clean Knives and Forks. 

In some families the knives are a great care to the 
housekeeper, but by proper management it is rendered 
easy. After using them, they should be wiped with a 
cloth, dipjied in warm water, tlien wiped dry, (the han- 
dles should never be put in hot water,) tlien polish 
them with Bristol or Bath brick, which, with the rubbing 
cloths, should be kept in a small box, with a strip of 
leather nailed on one edge, on which to polish them 
after they are rubbed with the brick. 

Knives that are not in daily use should be wrapped 
in raw cotton and then in paper, and if kept in a dry 
place will not be liable to rust. 

To Clean Teeth, 

lynh RcmurLs on Fixing the Habit, <§-c. 
Pulverized charcoal mixed with honey, is very good 
to cleanse teeth, and make them white. A little Peruvian 
bark put in a phial with lime water is excellent to use 
occasionally by those that have offensive teeth; and 
tincture of myrrh mixed with a little water, may be used 
with advantage, to harden the gums. A little Peru- 
vian bark put in the teeth just before going to bed, and 
washed out in the morning, is an excellent preservative 
of teeth. It is very important for parents to insist on 
children cleaning their teeth, at least, it is well for them 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 225 

to begin before they lose their lirst set, as it makes 
them last longer, and fixes the habit, which is of great 
importance. 

To Clean Kid Gloves. 

Take a piece of flannel ; moisten it with a little milk ; 
rub it on a cake of mild soap, and apply it to the soiled 
spots on the gloves; as soon as the dirt is removed, 
rub tlie spot with a dry piece of flannel, and dry them 
on the hands. Care must be taken that the gloves are 
not made too wet, or they will have a wrinkled ap- 
pearance. Dark gloves that are worn in winter, should 
be exposed to the sun for about a quarter of an hour 
in the spring, before putting them away, or they will 
be liable to spot. 

To Clean Papered Walls. 

Cut the crust off of stale bread very thick, and rub 
the walls carefully from top to bottom, in a straight 
line, using a fresh piece of bread as soon as it, looks 
much soiled. 

To Take Old Putty from Window Glass. 

Warm an iron, and rub it on the glass opposite the 
putty; this melts the oil, and you may easily remove the 
putty. 

Cutting Glass for Mending Windows. 

If you want to cut glass for mending windows, and 
have no diamond, dip a piece of cotton twine into 
turpentine, and stretch it tightly across the glass where 
you wish to break it; then set the string on (ire, and 
after it is burned, creak the glass while it is warm. 



20 



226 SIMPLE REiMEDIKS. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 



The following remedies are lor diseases which occur 
in almost every I'umily, and have been proved to be 
useful in a number of instances. As most old house- 
keepers have their favorite recipes, it is for the young 
and inexperienced tliese are particularly intended, and 
may be used with safety, when a physician is not at 
hanil. 

Remarks upon a Deeply Seated Cough. 

ll is very iiiipurtant to begin in tinu; with a cold. 
Consumption is sometimes prevented by very simple 
remedies. To put Jiurgundy pitch plasters on tlie 
breast and back of tlic neck, often has a good effect; 
they should be re-spread frequently, and when one part 
is irritated, change them to another place. Put one on 
your side if you have a pain there. 

Flahnel should be put on next the skin by ail means, 
which, with the above simple remedies, will cure a cold, 
if begun witli in time. 

I have frequently known m-w llanncl put on those 
that usually wore it, greatly to benefit a delicate person. 
The increased irritation of the new flannel acts on the 
pores of the §kin and promotes circulation. Hair soles 
worn in the shoe, or socks made of flannel, or soft 
buckskin worn under the stockings, are very good to 
keep the feet warm and dry. Persons predisposed to 
consumption should have nourishing food, and not eat 
too much at a time; they should avoid strong tea or 
coffee, and drink milk. Eggs, oysters, fresh fish and 
fowls, are very good for tliem. Fruit of all kinds is 
useful. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 227 

They should take exercise in the air, particularly 
riding en horse-back, or take a short walk, but not so 
as to be fatigued; to Avork moderately in a garden, 
when the ground is not too damp, is good exercise for 
a deHcate person; the smell of fresh earth, and of 
flowers, is beneficial to both body and mind. After 
taking exercise, a glass of lemonade is very refreshing, 
and promotes appetite. 

If there should be perspiration at night, change the 
sheets and pillow-cases frequently, and the under gar- 
ments; air the chamber and bed-clothes every day; if 
the weather is too damp to raise the windows, shake 
up the bed, and leave it unmade half of the day, and 
put it out in the sun occasionally. 

By all means avoid strong medicine, or an} thmg 
that has a tendency to weaken the body. 

Sometimes blisters are used with very good effect; 
also, rubbing the breast and back with camphor or 
spirits, or with a piece of dry flannel. 

Taking anodyne drops, particularly laudanum, should 
be avoided, if possible; they may still the cough during 
the night, but it will come on with increased violence 
in the morning; they weaken the stomach, increase the 
fever, and sometimes cause delirium. 

Everything that tends to excite or irritate the mind, 
should be kept from them. It is very important to talk 
cheerfully to sick persons, particularly if confined to 
their chamber, which can be done without lightness 
or trifling. 

If they see gloomy faces around them, it has a very 
disheartening effect; and, if the mind sinks, such is its 
intimate connection with the body, that it is hard to 
raise it. 

I have known persons by judicious management to 



2528 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

live for many years, after it was thought they were in 
a deep decline, by avoiding weakening medicines, 
taking exercise on horse-back and on foot, and never 
indultrinor in a full meal. 

Sometimes such persons have very good appetites, 
and it is a satisfaction to their friends to see them eat 
heartily; but they should eat something frequently, 
rather than over-load the stomach too much. 

When they come in hungry from a ride, to beat up 
an eg(r with a tea-spoonful of wine, and a little sugar 
and nutmeg put in a tumbler with some milk, and 
taken with a cracker or biscuit, or a piece of thin toast 
broken up in it, has a very strenghtening effect. 

Persons are seldom benefitted by a strict diet, but it 
is sometimes enforced till they lose their appetite and 
cannot eat. 

If the weather is so that exercise cannot be taken 
out of doors, some method should be devised for taking 
it in the house. Rubbing furniture and playing battle- 
door, are good exercise for a female, but should not be 
taken too much at a time. 

Men that are confined to the house are sometimes 
very much at a loss what to do; if such would purchase 
a few tools, and appropriate a spare room as a work- 
shop, it would promote their health. I have known 
men that were but little acquainted with the use of 
tools, do many useful and ornamental pieces of work, 
that were greatly valued by their friends; and the 
exertion kept their spirits from sinking, when the 
weather waS too inclement to take exercise in the 
open air. 

For a Cough. 

Take a wine glass of tiie juice ot' the green hoar- 
hound, or if that cannot be obtained, a strong decoction 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 229 

from the dry herb will answer; mix it in half a pint of 
new milk, sweetened either with sugar or honey; take 
this half an hour before breakfiist. It has been known 
to cure obstinate coughs, and persons that have taken 
it for four weeks or more, have gained strength and 
flesh, and the pain in the breast was relieved. Flannel 
should be worn. 

Elecampane and Hoarhound Syrup, 

Put a pint of hoarhound in a quart of water, and let 
it draw by the fire; put a tea-cupful of dried elecam- 
pane root in a pint of water, cover it close, and let it 
boil till all the strength is out; strain it and the hoar- 
hound together, and put them to boil with a pound of 
sugar; when it is a rich syrup, pour it in a pitcher to 
cool, and bottle it. Take a table- spoonful at a time 
w^hen the cough is troublesome. Sometimes flaxseed is 
a useful addition to this syrup. 

Brown Mixture for a Cough, 

Take of paregoric, liquorice and gum arable, each 
an ounce, from fifty to one hundred drops of antimonial 
wine and two gills of hot water; mix them well 
together, and when cold, botde, and cork it tight; 
take tw'o tea-spoonsful at a time; if it should nauseate, 
give a smaller quantity. If this produce profuse 
perspiration avoid going in the air unless well wrapped 
up. This has been useful in the latter stages of the 
whooping cough. 

Ginger Tea, 
With Remarks on its Use, Sfc. 

Strong ginger tea, sweetened and taken hot on going 
to bed, is very good. Where persons have been exposed 
to the air, and think they have taken fresh cold, keep 
20* 



230 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 



the feet warm by taking a hot brick to bed, and do not 
increase the cold the next day. If it is not deeply 
seated, taking this a few nights will give relief. A 
piece of ginger root, kept about the person to chew, is 
good for a tickling in the tliroat, which many persons 
are subject to, when sitting in close heated apartments, 
in lecture rooms, or jiIium^s of worship. 

Lemon Mixture for a Cough, 

Put two fresh eggs in a jar; cover thcin with the 
juice of six large lemons ; let it stand until the hard 
shell of the eggs is eaten off; then beat it together; 
strain it, and add half a pound of" rock candy, one gill 
of brandy and two table-spoonsful of sweet oil. 

Mixture of Lemon Juice and Honey. 

Take half a \)u\{ of honey and squeeze the juice of 
four lemons on it; mix well together, and atld a small 
portion of sugar; take a tea-spoonful every time the 
cough is troublesome. 

Hoarhound Candy. 

Put two pounds of sugar in a jiint of hoarhound tea, 
as strong as can be made, which may be done by 
drawing two sets of hoarhound in the same water, till 
the strenti^th is out of each; when it is cold, mix in the 
sugar and the white of an o^g; when it begins to boil, 
take off the scum as it rises, boil it slowly till it be- 
comes thick, so that when you drop it on a plate, it 
will be hard and crisp, and pour it out in plates that 
have been greased with a little sweet butter; when 
cold, you can break it uj) for use, and tic it up in ajar. 
This is quite as useful as the candy you buy, and is 
much cheaper; it is very convenient for persons that 



SIMPLE REMEDIES, 231 

have a cough, to have a Httle box of this about them to 
take when there is a tickhng in the throat. 

Mustard Bath for the Feet— Soap Stones, &c. 

It gives relief to a bad cold in the early stages, to 
soak the feet in warm water, in which you have put 
half a tea-cup of salt and two table-spoonsful of pul- 
verized mustard, and to drink ginger tea. You may 
keep your feet in the bcith for half an hour, and then 
retire with a warm soap stone wrapped in a cloth and 
placed near them. A soap stone, the size of a brick 
will, when Ihorou^hly heated, keep warm till morning, 
and is invaluable for an elderly person or one that suf- 
fers with cold feet. 

Liverwort Syrup. 

Make a quart .of strong liverwort tea by extracting 
two sets of herbs in the same water; tie a tea-cup 
of flaxseed in a bag and put with it; keep it covered 
while drawing; when the strength is all out, strain it 
on a pound of sugar, and let it boil slowly till it is 
thick — keeping it covered to prevent the strength from 
going off; when cold, bottle it, and set the bottle in a 
cool place while using it. Take a table -spoonful at a 
time about six times a day. This has been used for a 
cough with great benefit. 

For Sore Throat. 

Make a gargle of cayenne pepper, honey and spirits; 
or sage tea, with alum and honey; or figs boiled, 
mashed and strained, and use it once in two hours. 
If it is very bad, steam the mouth with a funnel held 
over hot vinegar, and put on a hot poultice of hops, 
boiled in weak ley and thickened with corn-meal; there 
should be a little lard spread over; renew it every 



232 SIMPLK REMEDIES. 

time it gets cold. Another very good poultice, is hot 
mush strewed M'itli powdered camphor; put it on as 
hot as can be borne, and change it when cold. A 
purgative should be given, eitlier of senna and salts, 
castor oil, or rhubarb and soap pills. An emetic is oi 
great importance, and has caused the throat to breal 
when persons have been very ill. 

Sore throats have been cured when quinsy was 
apprehended, by using powdered camphor and lard on 
flannel. It is a good way, when persons are subject 
to it, to keep an ounce of camphor mixed with lard, in 
a wide-mouthed bottle, or jar, and corked tight. The 
cayenne ])epper and honey gargle should also be kept 
ready mixed, and used when the first symptoms appear; 
or in a violent attack, a plaster of snufF and lard may 
be applied with benefit, keeping it on only a few minutes 
at a time. Sometimes a bag of hot ashes sprinkled 
witli vinegar, and applied hot as can be borne, has 
cured a sore throat in one night. Persons tliat have 
been afflicted for years with repeated attacks of sore 
throat and quinsy, have been cured by bathing the 
throat, neck and ears with cold water every morning. 
The constant use of the shower bath is very important. 
Keep the feet warm. 

Molasses Posset for a Cold, 

Take a pint of the bust molasses, a tea-spoonful 
of powdered ginger, a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter, and let them simmer together for half an hour; 
then stir in the juice of two lemons, or if you have not 
these, two table-spoonsful of strong vinegar; cover 
over the sauce-pan,^ and let it stand by the fire five 
minutes longer. Some of this may be taken warm or 
cold. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 233 

For Whooping Cough, 

Dissolve a scruple of salts of tartar in a gill of water; 
put in half a scruple of pulverized cochineal, sweeten 
it with loaf sugar; give an infant a tea-spoonful of this 
mixture four times a day, and a child four years old or 
upwards, a table-spoonful. In some cases the relief is 
instantaneous. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Half a pint of honey, half a pint of vinegar, two 
table-spoonsful of sweet oil, stewed together a few 
minutes ; when cold put it in a bottle, and put in a 
tea-spoonful of laudanum; shake it well, and give a 
table-spoonful when the cough is troublesome, and a 
dose just before going to bed. For an infant of six 
months, a small tea-spoonful is a dose, and for a child 
of four years, two tea-spoonsful. Where there is not 
much fever, a little port or claret wine, mixed with 
sugar and water, and taken with toast broken in it, is 
beneficial. Children should be taken out riding if 
possible, and should be well wrapped up. 

For the Croup, 

Put the child in warm water, and keep up the tem- 
perature by putting in more hot water; keep it in 
fifteen or twenty minutes, then wipe it dry and put it in 
a warm bed, or wrap a blanket round it and hold it on 
the lap; give it an emetic, and put powdered garlic 
and lard to the throat and soles of the feet; keep up 
the perspiration, by giving a few drops of antimonial 
wine every half hour. The next morning give it a 
dose of rhubarb tea or castor oil, and keep it from the 
air for several days. This treatment has been very 
beneficial when a physician was not at hand; and if 



234 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

nothing had been done till his arrival, perhaps the 
child would liave been too far gone to recover. 

In cases of crouji, to wet a piece of tlannel with 
alcohol, and apply it to the throat as hot as it can be 
borne, has often a salutary effect, applied frequently. 
It is also good to use for a bad cold, &c. 

Molasses stewed with a lump of butter, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, taken just belbre you go to bed, 
and to grease the nose, forehead and breast with 
mutton tallow, will sometimes cure a child without any 
thing else. To jiound garlic in a rag and squeeze out 
liie juice, mix it witii molasses, and give a tea-spoon- 
ful at a time, has given relief when a child was very 
ill. Sliced onions, or garlic stewed with sugar and 
water, or molasses, is very good to take for a cold. 
Where children are subject to the croup, you should 
always have a pot ol" water over the hre, and light- 
wood near, to heat it as quick as possible. Ciiildren 
that are subject to these attacks shoidd have their feet 
kept warm and drv, and always wear flannel next to 
tlie skin. 

It is the duty of parents to make use of the most 
simple remedies, which may always be in readiness, 
and, if applied in time, mav prevent the necessity of 
giving strong medicines, which iujure the constitutions 
of young children. The least symptom of the disease 
should be attended to. Lobelia is a certain remedy 
for croup. If the case is light, a few drops of the tinc- 
ture, increasing tlie dose according to the age of the 
child, given at short intervals, will cause it to vomit 
and- prevent danger; but if the attack is a severe one, 
you should give the "third preparation of lobelia;" for 
a child of ten years, ten drops, and so on in proportion; 
mix it witli sugar and water. Every mother should 



235 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

keep lobelia at hand, as it has been known to give 
certain relief in many cases. 

A child of twelve months, may take of the tincture 
ten drops every fifteen or twenty minutes, till it acts as 
an emetic, or relieves by perspiration; one of two or 
three years may take twenty or thirty drops. The 
third preparation is of much greater strength than the 

tincture. 

Infants' Colic, &c. 

Tea made of catnip, and sweetened, given to an 
infant when it appears to be in pain, is often useful. 
Sweet marjoram tea also relieves pain, and has a 
soothing effect on the nerves. 

To put the feet in warm water, and put a warm 
piece of flannel to the stomach, is important; but if 
neither of these relieve the child, put it in warm water 
for about ten minutes, and cover it from the air care- 
fully; wipe it dry, and keep it warm afterwards. 

A little weak ginger tea is good for the colic; as 
also tea made of dried damask rose leaves; a tea- 
spoonful of leaves will make a tea-cupful of tea. 

Uneasiness is frequently caused by their stomachs 
being overloaded with food, and care should be taken 
in this respect. 

Having lately met with some remarks in the "Bal- 
timore American," with which I am much pleased, I 
take the liberty of inserting them. "Narcotics ana 
anodynes cannot be given with too much caution ; the 
sensitive and nervous system of an infant should never 
be acted upon by these powerful drugs unless in 
extreme cases, and of these, few mothers should pre- 
sume to judge. Two drops of laudanum, says the 
London Medical Gazette, have been known to kill an 



236 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

infant; and a single drop, it is said, stole the life of a 
new born babe. 

"The most experienced medical men never admin- 
ister medicines of this class to the very young, without 
exercising the utmost caution, and making the most 
accurate calculations. 

"In the present day, the more general diffusion of 
correct facts in physiology and pathology has caused a 
large class of young mothers to reject tlie old system 
of giving narcotic drugs to infants. In carrying out 
this salutary reformation like all other reformers, they 
have a strong opposition to contend with; old fash- 
ioned nurses do much harm in opposing all nursery 
reformations, consequently young mothers will have a 
hard tnsk to execute. 

"Too many have not the steady courage to hold on 
to the end in mild, but firm opposition lO all erroneous, 
but well meant interference. But there are others 
whose pure and unswerving love for their tender off- 
spring keeps them firm to their duty; to thase the next 
generation will owe much. They are the little band 
of true-hearted reformers, whose good example will be 
like leaven, spreading until its influence is felt through- 
out die wide circle of maternal responsibility." 

Summer Diseases, 

The food of cliiidrcn in suminer, should be light 
and nourishing; if of milk, be careful that it is sweet. 
If you cannot get it fresh as often as you want it, boil- 
ing will keep it sweet. Sour milk and improper food 
sometimes bring on the summer disease, which is 
easier prevented than cured. 

A little rhubarb tea or tincture, with a small quan- 
tity of prepared chalk, will sometimes check it in its 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 237 

• 

early stages, but the most effectual medicine that I 
have tried is called by some apothecaries, "red mix- 
ture," of which I will give a recipe. 

Ch".cken water, slightly salted, is very good; make 
but a little at a time, and have it fresh. 

Rice gruel, sweetened with loaf-sugar, and a little 
nutmeg, is nourishing. To make a drink of slippery- 
elm, shave the bark fine and put it in water; strain it, 
mix it with milk, and sweeten it. Elderberry and 
blackberry cordials are also good in cases where there 
is no fever. 

The stomach and back should be bathed with spirits; 
and a little bag of pounded spices, wet with spirits, 
applied to the stomach, may be used with safety, when 
not within reach of a phySician. 

A bark jacket has been used with success in many 
instances; cut it out of fine muslin, to be double, spread 
it open, and cover one side w^ith about two ounces of 
the best Lima bark, and twelve pounded cloves; put 
on the other side, sew it up, and quilt it across ; put on 
shoulder straps and strings of soft ribbon; sprinkle it 
with spirits twice a day. 

The child should have the benefit of the morning 
and evening air. If it is not convenient to ride it out, 
walking w'ill answer, in the arms of a careful nurse, 
carried on a pillow, with an umbrella to protect its 
eyes from the light. 

When a child is taken sick in a city, removing it to 
the country often has a beneficial effect. Milk thick- 
ened with arrow root is good diet for children. Flour 
Jried in an oven for several hours, and used to thicken 
milk or water, is also good, sweetened with loaf-sugar, 
and is nutritious. They should eat but a small portion 
of any thing at a time. 
21 



238 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

To cut slices of lean tresli beef or mutton, put it in 
a bowl, and pour a pint of boiling water on it, and let 
it set close to the fire for an hour, is very good to give 
children occasionally, with but little salt; the stomach 
will sometimes retain this when other things are 
rejected. As thirst is an attendant on this disease, 
much salt should be avoided in all their food. Every 
thing about a sick child should be kept clean, and its 
clothes well aired belbre chanjiinfj them. If it is too 
ill to carry out of doors, have it changed from one 
room to another, and the apartment it left well aired. 

Children who are atllicted with this disease, some- 
times crave fruit. Ripe peaches, fresh from the tree, 
or ripe apples, baked or roasted before the fire, maybe 
occasionally administered in ^mall quantities with per- 
fect safety. 

To make toast-water, the bread should be toasted 
on both sides very dry, and boiling water poured on it. 

I hope these hints will be useful to persons that 
cannot procure a physician, which is often the case in 
tlie country. 

Mustard Whey. 

lioil a pint of milk, and the same of water, with an 
ounce and a half of bruised mustard seed, until the 
curd separates — when strain the whey. This is a most 
desirable way of administering mustard ; it warms and 
inviii^orates the system, promotes the different secre- 
tions, and in the low state of nervous fevers, will often 
lupply tlie place of wine. It is also of use in chronic 
'heumatitjra, palsy and dropsy. 

Red Mixture. 

Take sixteen grains oi' powdered rhubarb, thirty 
uf soda, fifty of prepared chalk, and two drops of the 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 239 

oil of spearmint, mixed in a vial with two ounces of 
water; keep it corked up and shake it before giving a 
dose. A child of ten months old should take a tea- 
spoonful every three or four hours. If there is much 
pain, two drops of laudanum may be added to every 
other dose. A table-spoonful is a dose for a grown 
person. 

Erysipelas. 

The decoction of sarsaparilla has proved useful in 
cases of erysipelas. Take two ounces of sarsaparilla, 
one of sassafras, one of burdock root, and one of 
liquorice; boil them slowly in three pints of water, 
keeping it covered close, until reduced to one-half. 
Take two table-spoonsful four times a day. 

While taking medicine for the erysipelas, meat and 
all strong food should be avoided, and every thing that 
has a tendency to inflame the blood. Dusting the 
parts affected, with rye or buckwheat flour, sometimes 
has a cooling effect, and bathing with camphor or 
spirits will allay the irritation. 

Nettle rash is very much like erysipelas, and the 
same treatment is good for both. Slippery-elm bark, 
chipped, and let to stand in cold water till it becomes 
thick, is a very cooling drink. It may be filled up the 
second time. Barley water is also a suitable drink. 

Erysipelas is frequently brought on by violent exer- 
cise, and the perspiration being checked too suddenly. 
Persons that have once had it, should avoid extremes 
of heat and cold, and pay strict attention to diet — not 
eating any thing that disagrees with them. All 
acids, particulary pickles, are improper. 

The stomach should be cleansed by emetics. Small 
and frequent doses of senna and salts, if taken just at 
going to bed, will not occasion much sickness, and 



24D SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

tend greatly to relieve the system of this unpleasant 
disease. Where the case is slight, the rhubarb pills 
sometimes give relief. The pores of those that are 
subject to it are generally open, and flannel should be 
worn all the year, to prevent too sudden a check of 
perspiration. 

Magnesia, Charcoal and Salts, 

Form a viiluablc ednipound lor familyuse: one ounce 
of each mixt'd toircllitT, and put in a wide-mouthed 
bottle; it is useful for head-ache, or diseases of the skin. 
Cases of erysipelas have been cured by its continued 
use. Take a tea-spoonful of (he mixture, in a little 
water two nr three times a day, or on going to bed at 
niglil. IVrsons of sedentarv occupations, that are in 
the habit of taking |)ills, will find it to their relief to 
use this simple remedy. It has been found beneficial 
in cases of tetter and ring-worm in the head, using at 
the same time, as a wash on the part affected, borax 
dissolved in strong vinegar. 

In cases of erysij)elas, the "charcoal mixture" has 
been used with great benefit; it is excellent for purifying 
the blood. Take it in small doses for two or three 
weeks, then discontinue it, and take it again at inter- 
vals. If this medicine should be found un])leasant, 
take a tea-spoonful of jelly, or something of that kind 
after it. It will answer quite as well to keep the mag- 
nesi;i, charcoal and salts in separate bottles, and mix 
them jusl as you take the dose, taking about an even 
tea-spoonful of each. 

For Dropsy. 

Put a quarter of a pound of cream of tartar, and a 
pound of new nails, in a stone jug, with half a gallon 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 241 

J 

of water; let it stand three or four days, occasionally 
shaking it; take a table-spoonful three times a day, on 
an empty stomach, and half an hour after each dose, 
take two spoonsful of mustard seed or scraped horse- 
radish. If the swelling abates, you may take the medi- 
cine less frequently, or omit every other day, but do 
not leave it off until you are entirely cured. After it 
has stood some time, it becomes stronger, when you 
may put in more water. This has been highly recom- 
mended for the dropsy. 

ANOTHER REMEDY. 

Take a quart of gin, put into it one handful of the 
white buds of the common pine ; shake it frequently, 
and take half a wine-glassful at a time, twice a day, 
about an hour before a meal, and occasionally eat a 
little brown mustard seed; this should be persevered 
in, and has been known to afford great relief, in two 
obstinate cases. 

For Rheumatism, 

Persons are liable to have the rheumatism from 
taking cold in the winter. Where the pain is most 
violent, put on plasters of Burgundy pitch, spread on 
leather. Persons that are subject to it, should always 
keep pitch in the house to use, as it will give relief; 
a silk handkerchief tied round the joint, keeps it 
warm and relieves stiffness. If the pain is in the 
back part of the head, put a blister on the neck, by 
all means. When persons have a bad spell of rheu- 
matism, they should always take medicine, and avoid 
♦^ating meat for a few days. Equal parts of rhubarb 
and castile soap, made into pills, with a little water, 
is a valuable medicine for rheumatism, and suits aged 
persons; the pills. should be taken at night on going 
21» 



242 SIMPLE liEMEDIES. 

to bed. They are easily made, and should always be 
at hand : it is valuable as a »:athaitic in almost every 
case where mild medicine is necessary. The use of 
the shower bath is also beneficial. Flannel should 
always l)e worn next the skin, and the feet kept dry. 
Bathing with camphor sometimes relieves the pain, 
but there is a danger of driving it to a more vital part. 
Salt and water is useful to bathe for the rheumatism, 
when it is of long standuig. 

Deafness, Remarks, &c. 

A remarkable case of deafness was cured by the fol- 
lowing remedy: (An aged person, whose hearing had 
been very good, gradually became so deaf as not to be 
able to hear common conversation ; after suffering 
some months, the patient thought of trying the fol- 
lowing remedy:) of honey, brandy and sweet oil, each 
a tea-spoonful, warm and mix well together; sew a 
soft linen rag to the eye of a strong darning needle ; 
dip this mop in the mixture while warm, and put it in 
the ear; hold it in till cold, when renew and move it 
gendy about; by so doing, wax that had accumulated, 
hardened, and stopped the cavity, was discharged, and 
the hearing of the patient restored. Wool should be 
worn in the ears, and an occasional use of the mix- 
ture ; also flannel round the head at night. A young 
person was relieved by the persevering use of the fol- 
lowing remedies : Put a small blister of Spanish flies 
behind the ears, very high up on the hard part, so as 
to be clear of the leaders, (or it will occasion pain;) 
when drawn, dress them in the usual way, and as soon 
as healed renew them; repeat this several times, keep- 
ing wool in the ears dipped in sweet oil, and at night 
put in small pieces of fat bacon that has been boiled, 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 243 

and tie a handicerchief around to keep them warm. 
When the blisters are healed, the hair should be cut 
short, to enable the patient to bathe the head in cold 
water, wnich should be poured from a pitcher; begin 
with it a little warm and gradually get it colder ; this 
should be persevered in, even in cold weather; wipe 
the head and tie it up till dry. I have been induced to 
make these remedies public, by seeing several interest- 
ing young persons suffering from deafness, with a 
hope that they may be of use. 

Remedy for Sick Head-ache. 

A table-spoonful of table salt, dissolved in a pint of 
water, as warm as you can drink it; take at two doses, 
and drink freely of luke-warm water, until it causes 
vomiting; put a hot brick to the feet, and avoid the 
air, which will check the perspiration. 

The Oil of Butter. 

Jl Remedy for Dysentery^ Sfc. 

Put half a pound of fresh butter in a quart of boil- 
ing water, to extract the salt; let it melt and boil up. 
If there should be any curds on the top, take them off, 
then skim off the clear butter, and keep it covered by 
the fire ; give from one to two table-spoonsful at a time, 
three or four times a day. 

This is useful in cases of dysentery, and is also 
soothing to the stomach, after violent vomiting for a 
long time. Sometimes a plaster of mustard put on the 
stomach stops vomiting. 

For Dysenteiy and Diarrhoea. 

The following prescription from an eminent phy- 
sician has proved valuable: Take of calcined mag- 



244 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

nesia two drachms, of aromatic spirits of ammonia 
two and a half drachms, of water half a pint; mix 
well together, and as a dose for a grown person, give 
a table-spoonful every half hour until relieved. 

Some country nurses recommend dittany tea, or 
spice-wood berries boiled in new milk. A large 
poultice on the stomach and bowels, made of new 
milk, thickened with light bread, has given relief — 
keeping it warm. 

Be careful to keep the patient's feet warm, and to 
bathe the back and stomach with spirits. Where the 
dittany and spice-wood cannot be obtained, other aro- 
matics, as cinnamon and cloves, are good substitutes. 

Remedies for the Dysentery and Cholera 
Morbus, 

Take the roots of the low running blackberry or 
dewberry; make a strong tea; sweeten it, and drink it 
occasionally. Take a large apple ; cut out the core, 
and wrap in wet paper; cover it up in hot ashes, and 
when cooked, take off the paper and eat it cold. 

Take one pint of good hard cider, that is entirely 
sound, put a table-spoonful of hot ashes into it, and 
stir it as soon as it settles; take a table-spoonful once 
every hour for a grown person, until relief is obtained. 

Remedy for 'the Ear-ache. 

Mix a few drops of French brandy with sweet oil 
and a drop of laudanum, and pour it in the ear a 
little warm. 

Another valuable remedy is to take a few wood lice, 
and stew them in a little lard, (which should be very 
pure,) for three or four minutes; then strain it and 
pour some in the ear belbre it gets cool. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 



245 



This gives almost immediate relief. The heart of a 
roasted onion put warm in the ear, and tie around the 
head a silk handkerchief, has given relief. 

A Wash for Sore Ears, 

Make a tea of the black or candle-alder, wet a soft 
rag with it, and lay it on ; it should be applied three 
times a day, and occasionally wash it with castile 
soap and water. The patient should take a mild pur- 
gative. If the ears are very much inflamed, there 
should be a bread and milk poultice put on occasion- 
ally. Elder ointment is also beneficial. 

Weak E3res. 

'Make a strong decoction of chamomile flowers, by 
boiling them in new milk; with this bathe the eyes 
several times a day — continue it for several weeks ; to 
bathe the eyes in cold water before going to rest, is 
also good. Pure rye whiskey is very good to bathe 
weak eyes. Persons that are afflicted with sore eyes, 
have often been benefitted by putting a small blister 
behind the ears, very high up on the hard part, so as 
to avoid the leaders. Infants should not be exposed 
to the light too soon ; it sometimes weakens the sight 
and seriously injures the eyes. The pith of sassafras 
put in water, is good to bathe inflamed eyes; a decoc- 
tion of young hyson tea is also used with benefit. 
Persons afflicted with weak eyes should avoid a strong 
light, and should not strain their eyes with reading or 
sewing at night. I have known small doses of "char- 
coal mixture," relieve the eyes when there was slight 
inflammation. Attention to diet is necessary. Fold a 
linen handkerchief, dip it in cold water, and bind it 
over the eyes at night on retiring, and you will expe- 



246 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

rience relief. Pain in the eyeballs is also relieved, 
by gently rubbing the finger and thumb over the lids 
towards the nose. This was published some years 
since, and I have known it give relief and sti'engthen 
the eyes. 

For "Womis, 

Equal parts of salt and sugar, taken while fasting, are 
good for worms ; a tea-spoonful is sufficient for a child 
two years old; to take half a cup of chamomile, rue or 
wormwood tea, with a little sugar, two hours before 
breaklast, is also good. Give a dose of senna after 
they have been taking this three days. It is very 
important to bryise garlic and rue, to apply to the 
stomach ; put it in a b:ig, and wet it with spirits every 
day. The garlic and rue is said to keep the worlds 
out of tlie stomach. Wormseed oil, a few drops at a 
time, has given relief, but should be used cautiously. 
Old cheese grated and given to a child, has been 
known to afford relief: it is also beneficial when a 
child is seized with sudden illness from having eaten 
too many cherries. 

For Tooth-ache. 

Reduce two drachms of alum to a very fine powder, 
and mix with it seven drachms of nitrous spirits of 
ether; apply it to the tooth. Alum burnt on a hot 
shovel, and powdered, is sometimes good ; also half a 
drop of the oil of cinnamon, on a piece of cotton or 
lint, where the tooth is hollow. Cayenne pepper on 
cotton, and moistened with spirits of camphor, has 
been known to afford relief. A poultice of hops applied 
to the cheek, or a piece of raw cotton with red pepper 
dusted on it, or a mustard plaster, will relieve a swell- 
ing which proceeds from tooth-ache. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES 247 

Cure for Cholera Morbus, 

Put a table-spoonful of hot ashes in half a pint of 
good hard cider, and give the patient three table- 
spoonsful of it at a time. This has given relief in 
half an hour. 

Another cure is to take a soft cork and burn it 
thoroughly ; when it ceases to blaze, powder the coal 
very fine on a plate. Mix a table-spoonful of this 
powder with a little milk or water, or any thing agree- 
able to the palate ; repeat the dose till the disorder 
ceases, which it generally does after two or three 
doses. This has given relief to a person in the 
greatest agony with the bilious colic. 

For Coiic. 

Drink strong ginger tea, while hot, and put hot 
Dricks to the stomach and feet ; if this does not give 
relief, take a dose of rhubarb or castor oil. Persons 
subject to the colic should keep a piece of ginger 
about them to chew after eating; wear flannel next 
the skin, and be carefiil to keep the feet dry : they 
should avoid strong coffee and tea, and eat nothing 
that disagrees with them. Dry toast without butter, 
and crackers, are good for persons that have the colic. 
For violent cases, take two table-spoonsful of brandy, 
and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. 

For Bilious Colic and Indigestion. 

Pour three quarts of boiling water on a quart of 
hickory ashes and a tea-cup of soot; let it stand a day, 
then filter it, and if the complaint is bad, take a wine- 
glassful before and after each meal. This has been 
very beneficial to persons with the above complaint. 



248 SIMPLK REMEDIES. 

Warner's Cordial for Gout in the Stomach. 

Take one ounce of rhubarb, two drachms of senna, 
two of fennel seed, two of coriander seed, one of 
saffron, and one of liquorice; stone and cut half a 
{)ound of good raisins, and put all in a quart of good 
spirits ; let it stand in a warm place for ten days, 
shaking it every day; then strain it off and add a pint 
more spirits to the same ingredients ; when all the 
strength is extracted, strain it and mix the first and 
last together. Take from two to four spoonsful of 
this cordial in as much boiling water as will make it 
as hot as you can take it ; if the pain is not removed 
in half an hour, repeat the dose, and if your stomach 
will not retain it, add ten drops of laudanum. 

Dr. Warner remarks, "after twenty years' experi- 
ence of this medicine in myself and others, it is im- 
possible for me to speak of it in terms higher than it 
deserves. When the vital parts are affected, persons 
subject to the gout should never sleep without it in 
their chamber." 

Cure for Tetter. 

Take ont tea-spoonful of powdered Spanish flies, 
put them in half a pint of French brandy; wash the 
part affected occasionally. This has been highly 
recommended to me, as a remedy for tetter on the 
hands, but I have never seen it tried. 

For Cramp in the Stomach. 

Dissolve a tea-spoontul of table salt, in a tea-cup 
of warm water; if this does not stop the vomiting 
and cramp, repeat the dose ; this is very useful in 
stopping the operation of an emetic, when it has con- 
tinued too long. Flannel cloths dipped in hot spirits, 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 249 

and sprinkled with cayenne pepper, and applied to 
the stomach, sometimes relieves the pain; a mustard 
plaster is also of use. 

For Cramp, 

A foot-board to the bedstead is of great service, 
when you are taken with the cramp in the night, and 
by placing the foot against it, will sometimes give 
rehef. Another remedy is to tie a string round the 
limb, between the body and the pain, about as tight as 
a physician does to draw blood ; wear a bandage 
filled wdth pounded brimstone round the limb, to pre- 
vent a return of it. Sometimes to hold a roll of 
brimstone in each hand will relieve the cramp, and 
persons subject to it should keep some by the bed-side 
to use in the night. 

For Scalds and Bums, 

When persons are badly scalded or burned, to put 
raw cotton on immediately, and wet it with spirits, is 
very good; other remedies are, linseed oil and lime 
water; starch and cream; scraped potatoes, molasses, 
and eggs beaten up and put on immediately. Almost 
any thing will relieve the pain, that excludes the air. 
Be careful not to break the skin, as it will be longer in 
healing. 

If a foot is scalded, pour cold water over it and cut 
the stocking. You should be careful to use linen rags 
about a burn, as cotton rags cause irritation. 

After tlie place begins to heal up, a salve may be 
applied, made of equal parts of Burgundy pitch, bees- 
wax, sheep's tallow, and sweet oil, melted together 
over the fire; renew it twice a day, washing the place 
each time with milk and water, and a little castile 
22 



250 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

soap. A wash of weak sugar of lead water, is also 
good for burns. A poultice of powdered elm bark 
mixed with water, and put on frequently, wetting the 
sore witli thick cream, is also soothing; be careful that 
the limb does not contract, as there is great danger ii 
the sinews are affected. If tliere should be fever, a 
mild cathartic should be given. "Comstock's Pain 
Extractor" sometimes gives great relief; you may also 
apply immediately, with benefit, a tea-spoonful of air- 
slacked lime and a table-spoonful of lard; sift the lime 
and rub them well together. For a burn by vitriol or 
any caustic substance, apply whites of eggs mixed with 
powdered chalk, putting it on wiUi a feather. Linen 
rags dipped in cold water and changed every few min- 
utes, I iiave known applied day and night to give 
relief to a bad burn on the foot; but avoid putting the 
foot in water, although it gives present rehef, it is 
dangerous. 

For Ague. 
Take half an ounce of coarsely powdered race gin- 
ger, infused in three gills of boiling water; when cool, 
strain and sweeten it; and for a dose give a heaped 
tea-spoonful of Peruvian bark, in a wine-glassful of 
the ginger tea, every two hours during tlie absence of 
the fever. To one ounce of best Peruvian bark, add 
two ounces of cloves powdered, and a half an ounce 
of cream of tartar; mix them well, and give two tea- 
spoonsful at a time every two hours: when clear of 
fever, begin at four in the morning, and give it until 
twelve at noon. Wormwood seed, a heaped tea- 
spoonful in a cup of water, as a dose, is also good. 
A third recipe is to take two ounces of best Lima 
bark, twelve heaped tea-spoonsful of magnesia, to be 
well mixed together, and divided into twelve doses. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 251 

Take four doses on each well day, at intervals of four 
hours each; this has cured a number who had suffered 
with ague a long time 

Chilblains. 

Put as much alum in hot water as will make it very 
strong; put the feet in when it is as hot as can be 
borne, and keep them in till it is cold; warm it over, 
and soak tliem every evening till they are entirely 
cured , by beginning in time, it need only be applied 
two or three times. 

WTien blisters are formed, take one ounce of cam- 
phor, one of sheep's tallow, and one of sweet oil; stew 
them together gently till it becomes an ointment, and 
rub the feet with it. 

Take an ounce of glue, and melt it in a pint of hot 
water over the fire; stir it until the glue is dissolved; 
pour it out and dip the part that is affected in this dilu- 
tion until the uneasiness or burning is allayed, which 
is mostly in a few minutes. 

Lock-jaw. 

If lock-jaw is apprehended from a scratch or wound, 
bathe the injured part frequently with weak ley, or 
warm pearl-ash water; make a poultice by boiling bitter 
herbs in weak ley, and thicken it with corn-meal; put 
a little grease in just as you put it on. Bacon skin 
and tlie rind of fresh pork bound tightly on, are said 
to be good. 

Falls. 

If a child receives a fall, examine every part, and 
rub your hand on its back to tell if any part is injured. 
There are instances of persons being cripples for life, 
from receiving a hurt, that was not known of at the 



252 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

time. To rub with camphor and sweet oil, and bathe 
the child in warm water, is soothing. 

For the Bite of a Spider. 

Moisten a slice of wheat bread with sugar of lead, or 
pearl-ash water; bind it on, and keep wetting it as it 
becomes dry. If the place swells very much, take a 
table-spoonful of sweet oil every hour, till it is re- 
lieved. To drink water with salaratus dissolved in it 
has been useful. 

For the Sting of a Bee. 

Rub tlie place with hartshorn or salaratus water, 
immediately after it is stung, to prevent it from swell- 
ing; bruised peach leaves bound on, are also good, 
and laudanum, where it is very painful. If it swells 
very much, apply a poultice of onions and cream, or 
ley and bitter herbs. 

For Bruises. 

The oil of St. Johnswort applied on lint, is an 
excellent remedy for bruises, and if used immediately 
will prevent the blood from settling on the place; 
when ciiildren get tlieir fingers or toes mashed, this is 
very good, and soon gives relief; salt butter is also 
very good. The leaves of the Jamestown weed, 
mashed with cream, are good for a stone-bruise. 

For Felons. 

Make a poultice of quick lime slacked in soft soap, 
and bind it on the finger; renew it every half hour. 
The leaves of Jamestown weed, bruised with cream 
or lard, are also good. Also, roast coarse salt in a 
piece of wet brown paper, or a cabbage leaf, about 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 253 

twenty minutes ; when cool, pound it and mix it with 
resin soap; bind it on the felon; it is said to be a cer- 
tain cure. The white of egg, with unslacked lime, 
has been known to give immediate relief. 

For a Sprained Limb. 

Strong vinegar and salt, put on brown paper, wull 
soon cure a slight sprain, if applied frequently. If 
very painful, a bath should be made of bitter herbs, 
bran and vinegar, put on as hot as you can bear it. 
Great care should be taken not to use the limb too 
soon after it has been sprained. Some sprains of 
several months' standing have been greatly relieved by 
taking several electric shocks a day. St. Johnswort 
oil is good to rub on a sprained limb. 

For a Sprained Ancle, 

Of chalk, soft soap, salt, and brandy, take a spoon- 
ful each, and add the white of an egg ; beat the mix- 
ture, and spread it on raw cotton, and apply it at once, 
when it will generally afford relief; and after repeat- 
edly changing, it may be left off in twenty-four hours. 
The ancle is often weak when recovering, and benefit 
is derived from pouring cold water on it from a pitcher 
held high above you. Tallow and salt, mixed and 
spread on a piece of muslin, are good for a sprain. 

Cuts or "Wounds, &c. 

When cuts bleed very much, tie a handkerchief 
tight above the wound, or place a finger on it until 
you can get a physician : in the country, persons 
should be supplied with a surgical needle and adhe- 
sive plaster, and have lint scraped and linen rags in a 
convenient place. Balsam apple put in a bottle when 
22* 



254 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

fresh, and \vhiskcy poured on it, is an excellent appli 
cation for fresh cuts or bruises. For the stick of a 
needle or pin, try to make it bleed, and hold the finger 
in strong vinegar and salt, as hot as you can bear it, 
this will prevent a gathering. A mashed finger should 
be held in hot water a few minutes. No. 6 is a most 
valuable remedy for cuts or wounds ; bind a linen rag 
over the cut, and pour on the No. 6. 

For Tetter, "Warts, &c. 

Dig up the pocoon root that grows in the woods, 
wash and slice it, and put it in a bottle with strong 
vinegar ; bathe the parts with it several times a day. 
Celandine root is also good, used in the same way, 
and either of them will remove warts and ringworms. 

Poisons, Accidents, &c, 

These are valuable remedies, and should hold a 
place in the memory of every one, if possible. 

IVrix a spoonful of powdered mustard in a tumble: 
of warm water, and drink it immediately ; it acts as 
an emetic, and has proved eifectual where an ounce of 
poison had been taken into the stomach. Where the 
skin is poisoned, use a wash of smart weed steeped in 
water, or mix soot and cream, and apply it frequently; 
bruised Jamestown weed and cream is also good. If 
you have been exjiosed to (poisonous plants, wash your 
face and hands immediately in salt and vinegar, or salt 
and water. When " corrosive sublimate," has been 
swallowed, the whites of two Pggs taken immediately 
will neutralize the poison, and change the effect to that 
of a dose of calomel. 

Persons struck by lightning should be laid on the 
ground, and pour water over them till life is restored. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 255 

When " oil of vitriol" or " aqua fortis" have been 
swallowed in large quantities, sweet oil should be 
taken, (as much as can be retained on the stomach.) 
For "oxalic acid," give magnesia or chalk and water. 

For "tartar emetic," give Peruvian bark and water, 
(or a strong decoctioYi of green tea, if you have not 
the bark.) For "saltpetre," give an emetic of mus- 
tard seed with water, and afterwards elm bark muci- 
lage, and small doses of laudanum. This is also good 
in cases where arsenic has been swallowed. 

Wlien a child has swallowed a cent, pin or needle, 
give it the white of egg immediately; this forms a 
coating round the metal, and prevents injury in most 
cases; .then give moderate doses of medicine, such as 
castor oil or salts. 

When a fish bone has been swallowed, take the 
white of an egg, which will help to carry it down the 
throat; also eat a hard crust of bread. 

Insects taken into the stomach, may generally be 
destroyed by taking a small quantity of vinegar and 
salt. When insects get into the ears, use a little salad 
oil, or melted lard. 

Tar Ointment for tlie "Milk Crust." 

Take a quarter of a pound of lard, and the same of 
sheep's tallow, three table-spoonsful of tar, an even 
spoonful of sulphur, an ounce of white turpentine, a 
lump of beeswax the size of a hickory-nut, the same 
quantity of powdered resin and scraped chalk, a tea- 
cupful of the inside bark of elder, a little celandine, 
southern wood, and English mallows; bruise the herbs, 
and put them on to boil, with the lard and tallow, and 
a little water to keep it from burning; when all the 
strength is out, strain them, and put the grease back 



256 SIMPLE HEMEDIKS. 

in the pot, witli the tar, ami atld the other ingredients 
a little at a time, and stir till all is melted ; then strain 
it in ajar, and keep it covered lor use. 

Tar ointment is good for ring-worms in the head, 
which some children have, and has cured children 
where the head and lace was covered with what is 
called the "milk crust." 

Before it is applied, the place should be washed 
with milk and water, and a gentle purgative should be 
administered occasionally. Rhubarb tea is good for 
this purpose. 

If it is wanted in the winter, when you cannot get 
all the herbs green, dried ones will do ; and when 
made, it will keep good several years. 

If there is much hair on the head of a child, it 
should be cut off before this is put on. 

It is very dangerous to give infants that are affected 
with tlie milk crust, calomel, or any strong medicine. 
They should be carried out in the air occasionally, and 
not kept all ihe time in a warm nursery; sometimes a 
change of food is attended witli a good result. 

There have been instances of infants dying very 
suddenly, where powerful medicines had been admin- 
istered. 

Hop Ointment, 

Take a table-spoonful of the yellow dust of hops, 
and put it in three spoonsful of melted lard, and mix it 
well; put it away in a cup for use. This has proved 
beneficial in cases of swelling of the breast; when cold 
has been taken, it will sometimes backen gatherings; 
bathe the place with a warm hand several times a day, 
and keep flannel over it, Young mothers should keep 
tliis ready, as it is much better than preparations of 
camphor, which are injurious. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 257 

Precipitate Ointment, &c. 

Take one ounce of Venice turpentine, half an ounce 
of powdered precipitate, half a pound of lard, and two 
table-spoonsful of cold water; mix the turpentine and 
precipitate together with a knife; tlien add the lard 
and water, a little at a time, till it is well mixed; then 
put it in little boxes. This is useful to dry up a break- 
ins: out on the face or hands; care should be taken 
while using it, not to take cold. 

Camphor dissolved in alcohol, or any white spirits, 
is very good to use on pimples on the face. 

Blister Ointment. 

Sometimes after a blister has been drawn with cab- 
bage leaves, it becomes very sore and inflamed; a 
salve may be made of the leaves of evergreen, (a plant 
which growls in gardens wath a thick leaf;) pound the 
leaves, and stew them in cream or sweet lard ; spread 
it on a line linen rag, and apply it to the blister after it 
has been washed with milk and water. 

Another salve for blisters is to bruise the leaves of 
the English mallows with a little southern wood ; stew 
them in sweet lard until they are crisp, and strain it; 
apply it three times a day. This is good to heal a 
burn. 

Lily Ointment. 

Gather the flowers of the sweet white lily, while 
they are fresh, and stew them in swxet lard. This is 
good for a swelling or sore. 

Elder Ointment for Burns, &c. 

After peeling off the outside bark of the elder, scrape 
off the green bark that is under, and stew it in lard till 



/ 



258 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

it is crisp; tlien strain it in ajar, and put it away to 
heal a blister or burn, or an old sore. 

St. Johnswort Ointment, and its Uses. 

Gather the yellow flowers of St. Johnswort while in 
full bloom; put them in a wide-mouthed bottle, and fill 
it witli equal quantities of lard and sweet oil; tie a 
skin over it, and haii<r it in the sun for a month; then 
strain it, put it back in tlie bottle, and cork it up. 
This is one of tlie most efifectual remedies for bruises, 
or for a mashed foot or hand. It should always be 
kept whore there is a family of children. 

Ointment for Mortification. 

Take tlie berries, leaves and bark of the black alder, 
and bruise them well in a mortar; stew them in lard 
for an hour, stirrinf^ all the time; then strain it, and 
add a small piece of beeswax. 

A poultice can be made for mortification, of the 
berries, leaves and bark of black alder, boiled in sweet 
cream, and thickened with wheat bread. 

Another good poultice may be made of the inmost 
bark of sassafras root, pounded and boiled in weak 
ley, and thickened with corn meal. The patient 
should drink tea made of the roots of sassafras and 
burdock. 

Bread and Milk, and Flaxseed Poultices. 

Boil half a pint of sweet milk, and thicken it with 
crumbs of bread; let it boil till soft. This is the 
mildest poultice that can be made. 

A tea-cup of flaxseed boiled till soft, requires nc 
addition to make a good poultice. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 259 

Hop Poultice, and its Uses. 

Boil a handful of hops in a pint of water till very 
soft; when thicken it with corn meal. This is very 
good for a sore throat, tooth-ache, or swelled face. 

Onion Poultice, 

Slice the onions and boil them in water till very soft; 
then mash and boil them with milk and some crumbs 
of bread. This will draw a bile or gathering to a head 
very soon. 

Lily Root Poultice. 

Pound the roots of the sweet white lily, and put 
tliem on to boil in rich milk; when soft, thicken it 
with crumbs of bread. This is a most valuable poultice 
for a gathering, and has given relief in many instances 
where the suffering was great. 

Cream Poultice. 

Put to boil a tea-cup of cream; mix two spoonsful 
of flour in milk, and stir in when it boils. 

Ley Poultice. 

Tie a spoonful of ashes in a rag, and boil it in a 
pint of water for fifteen minutes, with some catnip or 
life-everlasting; when the herbs are soft, take out the 
ashes, and thicken it with corn meal; spread some 
grease over as you apply it. 

Adhesive Plaster. 
Take three pounds of resin, one-quarter of a pound 
of beeswax, one-quarter of a pound of mutton tallow, 
melt together in an iron pan; then pour out about one- 
third into a bucket of water, turn up the edges until 
you can take hold with the hands and pull it as you 



"260 SIMI'LE REMEDIES. 

would shoeinukeis' wax: grease papers anu put the 
plaster on them tor use ; you may then pour out the 
rest and treat it in the same way. 

A Valuable Salve for Burns and other Sores. 

Take of high mallows, heal-all, night shade, and 
elder bark, a large handful, and about half the quan- 
tity of Jamestown weed; boil them for several hours; 
strain ofT the liquid, and add to it one pound of bees- 
wax, one pound of mutton tallow, one pound of resin, 
half a pound of lard ; boil them slowly for about two 
hours, and let it cool on the liquid. This salve will do 
to apply immediately to a burn or scald, or after othei 
remedies have been used; it is also good to heal old 
sores or gatherings. 

Deshler's Salve for Gatherings or Sores. 

Take half a pound of sheep's suet, the same of resin 
and beeswax, a quarter of a pound of thick turpentine, 
and half a pint of linseed oil; pound the resin, and 
cut the beeswax and suet; put them over the fire with 
the other ingredients, and keep stirring till they are 
mixed, but do not let them boil; put it in ajar, and tie 
it up. It is good for burns, biles, gathered breasts, &c. 

Salve for Corns, or Bunions. 

Takfe a pint of sweet oil, half a pound of red lead, 
two ounces of Venice turpentine, two of beeswax, and 
one of white turpentine; boil the oil and red lead in 
brass or bell-metal till they turn brown, stirring it con- 
stantly; have the wax and white turpentine sliced, and 
put them in by degrees; take it off the fire, and stir 
till all is melted; then add the Venice turpentine, and 
continue to stir till it is cold; when dip your hands in 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 261 

cold water, and make it out in rolls about two inches 
long; wrap each roll up in paper, and keep them in a 
box After soaking and scraping the corn, bind it on, 
spread on a soft rag. To warm a small piece of com- 
mon adhesive plaster and apply it, gives almost imme- 
diate relief. 

Sassafras Poultice. 

Take the bark of the root and mash, or pound it ; 
boil it in a little water, and take out the bark, and 
thicken it with crumbs of bread, and milk. 

Balsam Apple in Spirits, 

Cut a ripe balsam apple in small pieces, and fill a 
bottle with it; pour Holland gin on it. 

This retains its strength for years, and is useful to 
take a few drops at a time for the colic; it is also 
valuable to apply with sugar to a cut or wound. 

Cure for Biles, 

Use equal quantities of resin soap, brown sugar, and 
powdered resin, worked well together, with a few drops 
of molasses. A poultice of onions, sassafras, or bread 
and milk may be used with advantage. For musquito 
bites, apply spirits of hartshorn and camphor. 

For Scurvy of the Gums. 

Take a quarter of an ounce of bark, and a piece of 
new lime the size of a hazle-nut; put them in*a bottle 
with half a pint of water; wash the mouth with this 
three times a day. 

For an Infant's Sore Mouth. 

Make a strong sage tea ; put in a little bark and 
borax or alum, with honey to sweeten it; cork it up in 
23 



262 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

a vial, and wash tlie cliild's gums with it tliree times 
a day, using a tVesli rag every time. 

For Affection of the Kidneys. 

Boil some onions soli, mash, antl apply them where 
the pain is seated. This has given great relief. 

For a G-athering on a Finger. 

Mix together equal parts of castile soap and chalk ; 
wet it with camphor, and l)ind it on, or dip the finger 
in honey and camphorated spirits, as hot as you can 
bear. A littk- burnt alum put on lint is good; also a 
bread and milk pf)ultice, with pounded sassafras root 
stewed in it, and renewed frequently. Honey and 
camphor mixed is uselul for gatlierings that have been 
of long standing. 

Take of the following ingredients a tea-spoonful 
each: black pepper powdered finely, ginger, spirits of 
camphor, laudanum, and honey; beat them well with 
the yelk of an egg, and thicken with rye flour, or if 
you cannot obtain rye, corn and wheat flour mixed will 
answer; this will form a sofl poultice, and should be 
applied in sufficient quantity to keep moist, and changed 
once a day. I have known this to cure several gather- 
in"^ that threatened to be severe. 

Hvixham's Bark Tincture. 

Take two ounces of bark, three drachms of Virginia 
snake root, one ounce of orange peel, and one quart 
of good spirits; set it in a warm place, and shake it 
daily for two weeks; then pour it off, and add a pint 
more spirits to the ingredients. 

This is very useful to take, when recovering from 
the ague or billious fever, or in the fall of the year; 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 263 

when these are apprehended, take two tea-spoonsful a 
day, before breakfast and dinner. 

Wine Bitters for Debility, &c. 

Take two ounces of chamomile flowers, two of cen- 
taury flowers, one of iron filings, and an ounce and a 
half of Jesuit's bark; put these in two quarts of good 
wine, and set it in the sun three days, shaking it fre- 
quently. Half a wine-glass of this taken twice a day, 
with water, is useful in cases of debility, where there 
is no fever. 

Chamomile, and wormwood teas, are both excellent 
tonics, as is also wild cherry tree bark, made in strong 
tea, and taken cold. 

Spice Wood Berries, 

Boil in a pint of new milk, a table-spoonful of 
bruised spice wood berries. This has a very healing 
effect in cases of dysentery, and summer disease in 
children. 

Spiced Rhubarb, 

Take two ounces of rhubarb, half an ounce of 
cloves, the same of cinnamon, and quarter of an ounce 
of mace; stew them in a pint and a half of water tiU 
one half is evaporated; then strain it and add half a 
pint of good spirits. Two tea-spoonsful is a dose for 
a child a year old, with the summer disease, and two 
table-spoonsful for a grown person. 

For Chapped Lips. 

Put a tea-cupful of rich cream over some coals 
to stew with three table-spoonsful of powdered loaf- 
sugar. This has a liealing effect. 



264 SIMPLE REMEDIES. 

Another remedy, equally good, is to a tea-cupful 
of honey, add half the quantity of mutton tallow, and 
stew together till well mixed ; pour it out in a cup, 
and keep stirring till cold. 

For chapped hands, mix together equal quantities 
of rich cream and strong vinegar, and rub it over 
every time you wash your hands. 

Bathing. 

Almost every family, even if their circumstances be 
moderate, can have a shower bath ; they may save 
the expense, by imj^roved iiealth and strength ; one 
bucket full of cold water is suiHcient. You should wear 
on the head an ()il-(li»th cap. For a person in strong 
health, the bath may be taken on first rising in the 
morning ; but for one (lisj)osed to be delicate, two or 
three hours after breakfast is the most proper time. To 
produce warmth, rub the person with a crash towel, or 
horse hair glove. You should be careful to take some 
exercise after the bath, or you will be more liable to 
take cold. Never take a bath soon after a meal, as 
that is injurious. Persons subject to colds, sore throat, 
rheumatism, sick head-ache, nervous disease, or gene- 
ral debility, have been greatly benefitted by the daily 
use of the shower bath. Children that are oppressed 
with heat are much refreshed, and will rest well after a 
bath ; the water should be moderated for them. In- 
fants sliould be bathed every morning in a tub of water 
about milk warm, anti may be very early accustomed 
to its use; they will become fond of it, and are less 
liable to take cold from exposure to the air. They 
generally take a refreshing nap after coming out of 
the bath. They should not be allowed to remain in 
more than five or ten minutes ; should be well wiped 



SIMPLE REMEDIES. 265 

with a soft towel, and then rubbed with flannel and 
dressed ; their clothes being warmed to prevent a chill. 

Elderbeny Jam for Colds, &c. 

A quart of nicely picked elderberries, to a pound of 
loaf-sugar and a tea-cup of water; let them boil slowly 
for an hour. If you prefer it without the seeds, strain 
the berries after boiling them for a few minutes, before 
you add the sugar. This is useful and agreeable for 
iolds, taken through the day, or at night, when the 
cough is troublesome. It is said also to purify the 
blood, and is taken to prevent erysipelas. 

Black Currant Jelly, a Remedy for Sore 
Throat. 

Take ripe black currants, mash and strain them, 
and to every pint of the juice, add a pound of loaf- 
sugar ; boil it until it becomes a jelly. It is valuable 
for sore throats. 

Quince seeds dried, and boiling water poured on 
them, make a useful gargle for sore throat. 

Lavender Compound, 

Pick the lavender blossoms, and put them in a 
bottle, with a few blades of mace, and some cloves ; 
fill up the bottle with good spirits, and let it stand 
corked up, till all the strength is extracted ; when 
strain it off, and color it with a little cochineal. 



23< 



266 FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



Remaiks on Preparing Food for the Sick. 

Few young persons understand cooking for tlie sick. 
It is very important to know how to prepare their fooa 
in an invitiivg manner; every thing should be perfectly 
clean and nice. Avoid giving an invalid any thing 
out of a cup that has been used before; even if it is 
medicine, it will not be so hard to take out of a clean 
cuji. It is well to have a stand or small table by the 
bedside, that you can set any thing on. A small silver 
strainer that will just fit over a tumbler or tea-cup, 
is very useful to strain lemonade, panada or herb tea. 

If you want any thing to use througli the night, you 
should prepare it, if possible, beforehand; as a person 
that is sick, can sometimes fall asleep without knowing 
it, if the room is kept perfectly still. 

Boiled Custard. 

Beat an crrcr with a heaped tea-spoonful of sugar; 
stir it into a tea-cupful of boiling milk, and stir till it 
IS thick ; pour it in a bowl on a slice of toast cut up, 
and grate a little nutmeg over. 

Panada, 

Put some crackers, crusts of dry bread or dried rusk, 
in a sauce-pan with cold water, and a few raisins; after 
it has boiled half an hour, put in sugar, nutmeg, and 
half a glass of wine, if the patient has no fever. 

If you have dried rusk, it is a quicker way to put 
the rusk in a bowl with some sugar, and pour boiling 
'vater on it out of the tea-ksttle. If the patient can 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 267 

take nothing but liquids, this makes a gooc' elrink 
when strained. 

Egg Panada. 

Boil a handful of good raisins in a quart of water; 
toast a slice of bread and cut it up ; beat two eggs with 
a spoonful of sugar, and mix it with the bread; when 
the raisins are done, pour them on the toast and eggs, 
stirring all the time; season to your taste with wine, 
nutmeg and butter. 

Oat-meal Gruel. 

Mix two spoonsful of oat-meal, with as much water 
as wull mix it easily, and stir it in a pint of boiling 
water in a sauce-pan until perfectly smooth; let it boil 
a few minutes ; season it with sugar and nutmeg, and 
pour it out on a slice of bread toasted and cut up, or 
some dried rusk. If the patient should like them, you 
can put in a few raisins, stoned and cut up. This wiU 
keep good a day, and if nicely warmed over, is as good 
as when fresh. 

Corn G-ruel. 

Mix two spoonsful of sifted corn-meal in some water; 
have a clean skillet with a pint of boiling water in it; 
stir it in, and when done, season it with salt to your 
taste, or sugar, if you prefer it. 

Arrow-root. 

Moisten two tea-spoonsful of powdered arrow-root 
with water, and rub it smooth with, a spoon; then pour 
on half a pint of boiling water; season it with lemon 
juice, or wine and nutmeg. In cooking arrow-root for 
children, it is a very good way to make it very thick, 
and thin it afterwards with milk. 



268 FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

Sago. 

Wash the sago, (allowing two table-spoonsful to a 
quart of water,) and soak it an hour; boil it slowly till 
it thickens; sweeten it with loaf-sugar, and season it 
with wine or lemon juice. 

Tapioca Jelly. 

Wash the'tapioca well, and let it soak for several 
hours in cold water; put it in a sauce-pan with the 
same water, and let it boil slowly till it is clear and 
thick; then season it with wine and loaf-sugar. The 
pearl tapioca will require less time to soak, and no 
washing. Allow: three table-spoonsful of tapioca to a 
quart of water. 

Milk Porridge. 

Put half a pint of milk, and the same of water, in a 
sauce-pan to boil ; mix two spoonsful of wheat flour in 
milk till very smooth, and stir in when it boils; keep 
stirring it five minutes, when pour it in a bowl and 
season with salt. 

Barley "Water. 

Boil two table-spoonsl'ul of barley in a quart of water; 

it is a cooling drink in fevers. If the weather is cold, 

you can make a larger quantity. Some boil whole 

raisins with barley; take it with or without seasoning. 

To Poach Eggs. 
Put a pint of water in a clean skillet, with a little 
butter and salt; when it boils, break two eggs in a 
plate, and put them in; in about a minute, take them 
upon a plate, in which there is a slice of bread toasted 
and buttered. This is a very delicate way of cooking 
eggs. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 269 

Barley Panada, 

Boil a small tea-cup of barley in water till it is 
soft, with a tea-cup of raisins; put in nutmeg and 
sugar, and break in it toast or dried rusk. 

Calf's Foot Blancmange. 

Put a set of nicely cleaned feet in four quarts of 
water, and let it boil more than half away; strain 
through a colander, and Avhen it is cold, scrape off all 
the lat, and take out that w^hich settles at the bottom; 
put it in a sauce-pan, with a quart of new milk, sugar 
to your taste, lemon peel and juice, and cinnamon or 
mace; let it boil ten minutes and strain it; wet your 
moulds, and when Ic is nearly cold, put it in them ; 
when it is cold and stiff, it can be turned out on a 
plate, and eaten with or without cream. This is very 
nice for a sick person, and is easily made. 

Cream Toast. 

Cut a slice of stale bread, and wet it with cream; 
toast it slowly and butter it; this is very nice for an 
invalid, and an agreeable change. 

Milk Toast, &c. 

Boil a tea-cup of milk, and put in a spoonful of 
butter ; toast a slice of bread and moisten it with water, 
then pour on the boiling milk. This is very good for 
sick persons, and can be eaten without much exertion, 
[n making water-toast, the butter should be melted in 
boiling water, and put on while hot. 

To Stew Dried Beef. 

Chip some beef very thin, pour hot water on it, and 
let it stand a minute or two, then drain it off, and ste\f 



270 FOOD KOR THE SICK. 

it in a skillet with a little cream and butter. If it is 
preferred dry, it may be fried in butter alone. 

To Stew Ham, &c. 

Cut a slice of ham into small pieces, and pour 
boiling water on it; let it soak a few minutes to extract 
tlie salt, and stew it in a little water; just before it is 
done, put in some cream and parsley. 

If you broil ham that is uncooked, it should always 
be soaked in water a few minutes. 

To Stew Chickens or Birds. 

When sick persons are tired of broiled chickens, or 
birds, it is well to stew them for a change; the wing, 
with part of the breast of a chicken, will make a meal ; 
stew it in a little water, and put in parsley, cream, 
pepper and salt, just as it is done. 

Chicken Water. 

If you have a small chicken, it will take half of it 
to make a pint of chicken water. Cut it up ^nd put 
it to boil in a covered skillet with a quart of water ; 
when it has boiled down to a pint, take it up, and put 
in a little salt and slice of toasted bread. This is 
valuable in cases of dysentery and cholera morbus, 
particularly when made of old fowls. 

Beef Feet 

Soak the feet and have them nicely cleaned; boil 
them slowly, and take off the scum as it rises ; when 
they are soft and tender, take them up, and separate 
the bones from the glutinous part, which is very nice 
for a sick person, and conveys nutriment in a form 
that will hardly disagree with thtt most delicat« 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 27] 

stomach, and has been taken when nearly all other 
food was rejected ; a few drops of vinegar, and a 
little salt, renders it more palatable, 

Beef Tea, &c. 

Take a piece of juicy beef, without any fat, cut it 
in small pieces, bruise it till tender, put it in a wide- 
mouthed bottle, and cork it tight ; put this in a pot of 
cold water, set it over the fire, and let it boil an hour 
or more. 

When a person can take but a small quantity of 
nourishment, this is very good. Mutton may be done 
in tlie same way. 

Mutton and Veal Broth. 

Boil a piece of mutton till it comes to pieces; then 
strain the broth, and let it get cold, so that the fat will 
rise, which must be taken off; then warm it, and put 
in a little salt. Veal broth may be made in the same 
way, and is more delicate for sick persons. 

Wine Whey. 

Boil a pint of milk, and put to it a glass of white 
wine ; set it over the fire till it just boils again, then 
set it off till the curd has settled, when strain it, and 
sweeten to your taste. 

Rennet Whey. 

Warm a pint of milk, but do not let it get too hot, 
or it wull spoil the taste of the whey. Wash the salt 
from a piece of rennet the size of a dollar, and put it 
in the milk ; when it turns, take out the rennet ; wash 
and put it in a cup of water, and it will do to use 
again to make whey. If you have rennet in a bottl* 



'Ji:J FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

of wine, two tea-spoonsful of it will make a quart of 
whey ; but if the person has fever, it is best to make it 
without wine. 

Mulled Jelly. 

Take a table-spoonful of currant or grape jelly, and 
beat with it the white of an egg, and a little loaf- 
sugar ; pour on it half a pint of boiling water, and 
break in a slice of dry toast, or two crackers. 

Mulled Wine. 

Beat together an egg, a glass of wine, and a spoon- 
ful of sugar; pour on it half a pint of hot water; stir 
all the time to keep it from curdling, and when you 
pour it in a tumbler, grate a little nutmeg over it. 

Toast "Water. 

Cut slices of bread very thin, and toast dry, but 
do not let it burn ; put it in a pitcher, and pour 
boiling water on it. Toast water will allay thirst 
better than almost any thing else. If it is wanted to 
drink through the night, it should always be made 
early in the evening. 

Apple Water, &c. 

Roast two ajiples, mash them and pour a pint of 
water on them; or slice raw apples, and pour boiling 
water on them. 

Tamarinds, currant or grape jelly, cranberries, or 
dried fruit of any kind, make a good drink. 

Coffee. 

Sick persons should have their coffee made separate 
from the family, as standing in the tin pot spoils the 
flavor. Put two tea-spoonsful of ground coffee in a 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 273 

small mug, and pour boiling water on it ; let it set by 
tne fire to settle, and pour it off in a cup, with sugar 
and cream. Care should be taken that there are no 
burnt grains. 

Chocolate, 
To make a cup of chocolate, grate a large tea- 
spoonful in a mug, and pour a tea-cup of boiling 
water on it; let it stand covered by the fire a few 
minutes, when you can put in sugar and cream. 

Black Tea. 

Black tea is much more suitable than green for sick 
persons, as it does not affect the nerves. Put a tea- 
spoonful in a pot that will hold about two cups, and 
pour boiling water on it. Let it set by the fire to 
draw five or ten minutes. 

Hye Mush. 

This is a nourishing and light diet for the sick, 
and is by some preferred to mush made of Indian 
meal. Four large spoonsful of rye flour mixed smooth 
in a little water, and stirred in a pint of boiling water; 
let it boil twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Nervous 
persons who sleep badly, rest much better after a 
supper of corn, or rye mush, than if they take tea or 
coffee. 



24 



274 DOMESTICS. 



DOMESTICS. 



Hints on the Management of Domestics, &c. 

SuMt families aif always changing their domestics, 
and weary their friends with complaints of those they 
have, an 1 inquiries for otiicrs. 

Deliberate before you make a change; if servants 
are lionest, speak the truth, and have an obliging dis- 
position, it is better to bear with a few defects, than 
to discharge tliem; these a^e qualifications for tlie 
foundation of a good servant; and some of the most 
valuable I have had, were such as could hardly be put 
up with at first. By being patient, and speaking to 
them in a kind manner, they become attached and 
fearful of iloing any thing to offend. 

When they break any thing, or an accident occurs, 
accustom them to inform you of it immediately. Few 
mistresses, of well regulated minds, will be offended 
when openly told of accidents; but if they are lel^t to 
be found out, you always feel more disposed to blame 
and reprove them. By speaking to them in a mild and 
forgiving manner, careless servants will become more 
careful. 

A considerate mistress may, without loss of dignity, 
make them feel that she regards it as her duty to be 
tlieir friend, and that she feels herself under an obliga- 
tion to advise them in difficulties and promote their 
comfort. 

We should reflect that theirs is a life of servitude, 
and if they over-exert themselves, or are too much 
exposed in early life, it will bring on disease that will 
shorten their days, or render old age a burden. 



DOMESTICS. 275 

Some young persons are too indolent to wait on 
themselves, and ring for the servants on the most 
trifling occasions; when if they were accustomed to 
perform these little offices, their health would be much 
better, and we should not hear of so many complaints, 
the result of want of exercise. All female servants 
should have time to attend to their clothing; many 
have to work so hard through the day that their only 
leisure is at night, and then they hurry over their 
things in a careless manner. 

Where your circumstances permit, a good man- 
servant is a valuable acquisition; and they are some- 
times more easily governed than females. 

If mistresses were better informed, they would not 
complain so much of the ignorance and awkwardness 
of their domestics. AlWays give them their orders in 
time. If a new dish is to be cooked, superintend its 
preparation yourself. 

If you are capable of directing, a cook will soon 
learn to do without your constant attention. 

If they are slow in their movements, insist on their 
beginning early to prepare a meal, so that there will be 
time sufficient for every thing to be done properly. 

If you expect company, have every thing prepared, 
that can be done with safety, the day previous. In 
summer there are but few things that can be done 
without risk of spoihng: a ham or tongue may be 
washed ready to boil ; castors and salt-stands put in 
order, and pastry or dessert prepared, that will not 
spoil oy being kept a day. 

In wmter, many things can be kept for days in a 
state of preparation for cooking; and it greatly assists 
the work of the family, to have every thing done 
beforehand. 



276 DOMESTICS. 

Do witli as few domestics as possible; assist with 
the work yourself, rather than keep one too many. 
Those that take orphan children to bring up, are often 
rewarded for their trouble; as sometimes a girl of fif- 
teen will be more useful than -one much older: and 
where a family is small it does very well; but in large 
families, a little girl is so often called from her work, 
tliat it has a tendency to unsettle and make her careless. 

Never allow your children to call on or interrupt 
servants when at their work or meals, to do any thing 
which a child could do for itself; children that treat 
domestics with respect, will generally find them willing 
to render any assistance in their power. I have known 
a few house-keepers, who have kept the same servants 
for years; who have assisted in rearing the children, 
until they almost viewed them as their own; and these 
were not faultless. If they had been discharged for 
trifles, they might have wandered, from one family to 
another, without being attached to any, until they 
became so indifTerent, as not to be worthy of employ; 
but by the kindness and patience of their employer, 
they became so grateful and attached, as to be a trea- 
sure to her family. When they become weary of such 
constant servitude, would it not be better, instead of 
discharging, to give them time for rest and recreation 
in visiting their friends? I have known them to re- 
turn, renewed in health and spirits. 

Encourage them to lay by as much of their wages 
as they can possibly spare, in such institutions as are 
thought the most safe, that they may have something 
to look to in case of sickness, or any event which 
would require its use. 

Promote their reading in such books as are suited 
to their capacities; they sometimes have a little lei 



DOMESTICS. 277 

sure, that could be well filled up in this way. I have 
found it to increase the happiness of those under my 
care, to encourage a fondness for reading, and im- 
proving their minds; it tends to keep them from 
unprofitable company, and too much visiting, to which 
so many are addicted. 

Young girls should make and mend their own 
clothes, and keep them in good order, and they should 
be taught to knit. The material of which stockings are 
composed costs but little, and they wear much better 
than those that are bought. Knitting fills up leisure 
moments, and promotes industrious habits; and w^hen 
age comes on, they will have a resource, although it 
appears so simple, yet if it is not learned while young 
it is hard to acquire when old. 

When servants are guilty of faults that cannot be 
looked over, instead of publicly reproving them, take 
an opportunity when alone, and talk coolly; tell them 
of your sorrow at being obliged to notice their con- 
duct, encourage them to pursue a different course, and 
that you will forgive them if they will strive to do 
better. I have known them much improved by this 
mode of treatment. 

By inspecting every department, not only will waste 
be prevented, but dishonesty. In cities many persons 
find it necessary to lock up nearly every thing ; and it 
is a lamentable state of things that so few are to be 
trusted. 

Sometimes treating servants with confidence will 
have a good effect ; but let them be aware that you 
have a knowledge of every thing that is going on. 

Some young persons are completely at the mercy of 
their domestics. I have known great uneasiness to be 
experienced, and much loss ; but by showing a httle 
24* 



278 DOMESTICS. 

moral courage, and discharging those that are irre- 
claimable, an ascendancy was gained. Never suffer 
them to treat you with disrespect or impertinence. If 
it is known tliat they will be discharged for these 
faults, they will be on their guard. 

If you have taken a boy or girl, to bring up as a 
domestic, endeavour to teach them, at least to spell 
and read ; they are sometimes very fond of their 
books, and if you once get them to reading, it will 
become to them a favorite evening amusement; I have 
known them take up their books on every occasion of 
leisure. I have seen boys that worked hard through 
the day, spend all the evening with their books, slate, 
and occasionally a little writing. Sometimes, I have 
in the evening felt fatigued and listless, and would 
much rather read, and amuse myself, than go out to 
teach two or three in the kitchen ; but in attending to 
this, (which I consider a duty,) have felt a sweet 
reward — indeed, their grateful thanks expressed by 
words, have encouraged me to keep on. I have 
thought a little instruction in this way, arouses their 
faculties, and tends to make them more industrious. 
When I have been prevented from teaching them for 
some time, by indisposition, or other causes, I have 
observed they were not so cheerful in the performance 
of their work. If they are reading any thing they do 
not fully understand, take a little time to explain it to 
them. It will be, ray young friends, like sowing the 
good seed, and you, as well as they, will receive the 
reward. 

I wish to encourage you in the most affectionate 
manner to attend to this duty; you will find it will 
strengthen you in the performance of others. "The 
mor« we exert our faculties, the more we can accom- 



REMARKS. 279 

plish. He that does nothing, renders himself incapa- 
ble of doing any thing. While we are executing 
one work, we are preparing ourselves to undertake 
another." 



REMARKS. 



Remarks on Carving, &c. 

I DO not think it necessarj^ to say much on the sub- 
ject of carving, as those who are accustomed to sit at 
a well ordered table, and who observe the manner of 
the host and hostess, can soon acquire the art, both of 
carving and helping with ease. And when placed at 
the head of their own table, the knowledge thus 
gained will be found a great assistance. 

The proper time for children to acquire good habits 
at meals, is not when there is company ; it should be 
an every day lesson. As when parents are engaged 
with their friends or guests, they have no time to 
devote to the manners of their children, and to re- 
prove them at table is very unpleasant, as well as 
mortifying. 

Young children will soon acquire the manner of 
sitting quietly till they are helped, if they are made to 
understand that they will not be permitted to eat with 
their parents and friends,- unless they behave with 
propriety. 

I have thought it a great assistance to the good 
order of a large family, for every member to be punc- 
tual in their attendance at meals, and all to sit down 
together, with a short pause before the carving and 



2S0 REMARKS. 

helping commences. In those moments of quiet, the 
heart is sometimes awakened to a feeling of gratitude 
to the Almighty dispenser of our blessings. 

At the table, different members of the family meet; 
and where affection and kindness, those aids to true 
politeness, preside, it is truly a delightful treat to be 
the guest of such a family. 

Every symptom of selfishness should be discour- 
aged, for if suffered to take root in a child, it lays the 
foundation of much that is disagreeable to themselves 
and others. 

Inculcate this excellent rule, "of doing unto others, 
what you wish others to do unto you," and always 
jireferring otliers to yourself. 

It is the custom in some well regulated families, to 
j)ermit the younger members, (as they arrive at a suit- 
able age,) to take turns in presiding, not only at break- 
fast and tea, but at the dinner table. I have known 
quite young girls that had been taught in this way, 
carve a fowl or joint of meat with ease and grace 
In helping, they should be taught not to overload the 
plate, as it takes away tlie appetite of some persons to 
be helped too largely. 

The gravy should be stirred so that all may be 
helped alike, and a small quantity put on the meat or 
fowl, to which it belongs, and not on vegetables unless 
it is particularly desired. 

If there shoidd be a rare dish on the table, it is 
best to hand it round and" let every one help himself, 
afler it has been nicely cut up. Ham is much nicer 
to be cut in very thin slices. So is salt beef ana 
tongue. 

Young housekeepers in selecting their dishes for 
dinner, (if they have not an experienced cook,) should 



I 



REMARKS. 



281 



avoid those that are ditTicult to prepare. Never try a 
new dish when you expect company. Your guesis 
will be more gratified with a neat and moderate table, 
with a few plain and well cooked dishes, accompanied 
with the smiling countenance of the hostess, than with 
a great variety of ill cooked and badly arranged viands. 

Economy the Source of Charity. 

If your circumstances will not admit of giving away 
much, you can, by economy, give a little, and a bless- 
ing will attend it. There are few of the very poor, 
that know how to repair old clothing to advantage; a 
garment will be of much more service, that is well 
mended before it is given to them. 

It has been remarked, that the poor are ungrateful, 
and forget the favors conferred upon them. 

I have seldom found them deficient in this respect ; 
and when they are, if we would reflect, that if some of 
us received no more than we deserve, we should be 
but poorly off. 

We know in our own families, how acceptable is a 
nice present of something that a sick member can eat; 
and it is sometimes the means of restoring the appetite, 
when any thing cooked in the house is rejected. The 
feeling of love with which it is presented, is as a cordial 
to a sick person. 

How much more acceptable will something nourishing 
be to one oppressed with poverty, as well as sickness. 

When the rich are diseased, the physician often finds 
it necessary to enjoin strict abstinence ; but very dif- 
ferent is it with the poor, who frequently suffer for 
want of nourishment. 

When the mother of a poor f\imily is ill, how greatly 
are her sufiferings augmented by th« knowledge that 



282 REMARKS. 

her children are deprived of her services ; and how 
acceptable to such a family -would be a loaf of bread, 
or a large bowl of soup, which could be made of 
materials that would hardly be missed. 

Dried beans or peas, and onions, are a cheap and 
valuable addition to soup; also cold vegetables. The 
liquor that fresh meat is boiled in, should be carefully 
saved for that purpose, if there are those near you that 
need it. 

It may seem at first troublesome to a young house- 
keeper, to take the necessary care to save for the poor. 
It is certainly much easier to let the cook have her 
own way, and waste or not, as she pleases ; but lor 
your encouragement my young friends, permit mc to 
say, you will be sweetly rewarded for your attention to 
them. 

One eminent for his charities, near the close of life, 
made this remark: "What I spent I lost, but what 1 
gave away remains witli me." 

To Encourage Children in Acts of Jlindness 
to the Aged and Afflicted. 

Young children may early be taught to administer 
to the wants of the aged and infirm. 

Some mothers are in the practice of givimg a small 
sum of money to their children, as a reward for some 
litde service or piece of work that they have done. 
The money thus obtained, to be laid out for a sick or 
old poor person. This metliod has an excellent efifecl 
on the minds of children; it incites them to inrhishy, 
teaches self-denial, and the feelings of love and charily 
which are thus early instilled into their tender minds, 
make a lasting impression. 



REMARKS. 



283 



If they spent their little fund in trifles for their own 
use, they would acquire a habit of selfishness ; which, 
when once formed, it is most difficult to eradicate. 

I have remarked the pleasure with which children 
will relate the incidents of a visit, which they have been 
permitted to make to a poor family; and it is a refresh- 
ment to persons advanced in life, to see a young family 
thus trained. 

As soon as little girls can sew, they should be en- 
couraged to make garments for the poor, or repair their 
own old ones as a present to a child of their own size, 
or make patchwork out of old dresses for a bed covering 
for poor people. Their being permitted to do these 
things, should be as a reward for good behavior in 
attention to their lessons or other duties. 

When they are old enough to make a loaf of bread, 
a pie, or a little plain cake, allow them to do it, and 
take as a present to, or make broth or panada for a 
sick person. This teaches them to prepare these 
things while young, and may be useful to them in 
after life. 

How cheering it must be to the aged or afflicted, to 
see smiling young faces enter their dwellings, bearing 
their little offerings of food or clothing, the work of 
their own hands. 

Be encouraged my dear young mothers; if you thus 
train your children to works of charity, you will be 
doubly blessed. 

Early Rising Promotes Punctuality, 

It is an old and true saying, "that if you waste an 
hour in the morning, it is seldom recovered all that 
day." This dispirits you, and the next day there is 
still something left undone. 



284 REMARKS. 

A late riser is rarely punctual in her engagements, 
and more of the happiness of married life depends on 
forming a habit of strict punctuality, than young persons 
are generally aware of. 

If you are distressed at having acquired habits of 
late rising, and want of punctuality, remember by 
perseverance, they can be overcome. Fix an hour for 
rising, and let nothing but illness jirevent your being 
up at that time. While forming this useful habit, you 
should retire to rest early. 

Many things can be better attended to at an early, 
than a late hour in the morning. 

Where families rise before the sun, the day seems 
much longer; all the active employments of the early 
riser are accomplished before her later neighbors have 
finished their breakfast. 

Tiic duties of the bath and toilet being performed, 
her chamber well aired and arranged — and her parlor 
in order, she is ready for the more quiet employments 
of reading and sewing. 

In a well regulated household, servants perform 
their duties with life and energy. Determine on an 
hour for your meals, and if all the members of the 
family adhere to iti^ scrupulous exactness will soon 
be established. 

Hints to Young "Wives. 

The authoress is well aware of the difficulties which 
surround a young wife on her first setting out, par- 
ticularly if situated at a distance from the kind mother 
who has hitherto directed her, with servants who 
watch every movement, and who will soon discover 
whether the new mistress is qualified for the task she 
has undertaken. 



REMARKS. 



285 



Accustom yourself to rise early; fix a certain hour, 
and let nothing but indisposition prevent your being 
up at the appointed time, ,. By this means your affairs 
will all be arranged in good season, and you will have 
time for recreation, in v/alking, riding, or in reading 
such authors as will tend to strengthen and improve 
your mind. 

Young persons removed from large families often 
suffer greatly from loneliness, whereas, if they were 
occupied with household affairs, they would not feel so 
severely the absence of their husbands while attending 
to business. 

Be punctual to the hour that has been fixed on for 
your meals, and let good order prevail in every depart- 
ment of which you have the command. A mistress 
of a family is much happier, who knows how every 
thing is going on from the garret to the cellar. By 
inspecting every thing you soon become interested, 
and we all know when that is the case, the most diffi- 
cult pursuits become easy and pleasant. 

And with what pleasure will a young wife welcome 
her husband to his meals, when her conscience assures 
her that she has done her best, and that nothing is 
neglected; and how' will it lighten -his labors to reflect, 
when absent, that the partner he has chosen, is per- 
forming her duty at home. 

I am fully persuaded that the formation of domestic 
happiness, is generally laid the first year of marriage: 
therefore, my young friends, act well your part; if 
you desire to be treated with confidence you must 
merit it. If you keep an exact account of all your 
expenses, there will be less danger of living beyond your 
income, of which there have been so many lamentable 
instances. 
25 



286 REMARKS. 

Never buy any thing because it is recommended as 
being cheap; many cheap things amount in time to 
a large sum. In selecting furniture, let utility, not 
fashion, govern your choice; some young persons fui- 
nish their parlors so extravagantly, that necessary and 
useful articles are neglected, for want of means to 
purchase them. Be persuaded that happiness does 
not consist so much in having splendid furniture, as in 
attending to tlie every day comforts of those around 
you. If you many without the useful knowledge 
necessary for governing your family, lose no time in 
acquiring it. 

There is a time when most young girls show a fond- 
ness for domestic alTairs before they are old enough to 
go into company, when it would be an agreeable change 
to be absent from school and assisting tlieir mothers; 
the knowledge thus acquired would never be lost. 

Many a young man who commenced with fair 
prospects, has been ruined through his wife's igno- 
rance of domestic duties, and she has suffered from the 
consequent diminution of his esteem and love. 

I once knew a lovely and accomplished young lady, 
accustomed to every indulgence, who, on her marriage, 
removed several hundred miles from her parents, to 
reside in the country, where servants were difficult to 
procure. This dv.licate and sensitive young creature 
was much distressed by her ignorance of almost every 
thing connected with housekeeping; and after suffering 
repeated mortifications, concluded to learn to do tli' 
workJierself; and when this dearly bought knowledge 
was acquired, she was able to teach her ignorant 
servants; and resolved, if ever she had daughters, to 
use every means in her pow^r to teach them. 

Wlien a prudent wife is made acquainted with the 



REMARKS. 287 

circumstances of her Imsband, she will endeavor strictly 
to keep within their bounds; always remembering that 
losses and events, over which he has no control, may 
occur and greatly reduce his hicome. And how wull 
it assist her to bear a reverse of fortune, if she has 
acted with discretion; it will strengthen the wife to 
encourage and cheer her partner, and enable him to 
struggle through difficulties which were thought insur- 
mountable. Happiness will not forsake such a family; 
though they lose almost every thing, the peace which 
is the result of a good conscience will remain ; this will 
strengthen them to begin anew, and the Divine blessing 
will attend such efforts. 



A few Remarks to Encourage Young House- 
keepers in their First Attempts. 

As bread is the most important article of food, one 
of your first attempts should be to make a few loaves 
of good bread and rolls, of the most simple kind. 
Bread rolls are very easily made. If you succeed 
tolerably, it will encourage you to try again. When 
you make cakes, begin with the simple kinds; plain 
jumbles or cakes that you can roll out, or crisp ginger- 
bread. Sponge cake is easier than those that have 
butter in them; I have known young persons succeed 
very well with it. Bread rusk is also easily made, or 
a few plain pies. Do not trust the baking to an 
ignorant person, but superintend it yourself. Some- 
times baking in a stove, is protracted by the damp- 
ness of the wood. Before you bake, have dry wood 
prepared. Watch the time ; it is a good plan to have a 
clock near the kitchen. Do not have too many things 
on band at ©nee ; but perfect yourself in the knowledge 



288 REMARKS. 

of a few important (ii:?hes. If you make good yeast, 
you will be more certain of good bread, light cakes 
and rolls. To cook a steak nicely, is also important ; 
and with a dish of potatoes well cooked, a dish of cold 
slaw and an apple pie, or a little stewed fruit, will 
make a good plain dinner. 

When your family is small, you can have something 
nice every day, without cooking much. Veal cutlets, 
and mutton chops, are easy to cook, and may be pre- 
pared in a short lime. If yoir have a fowl, and boil 
it, yon can save the soup, and warm it over for the 
next day. A cold roast fowl may be hashed. On 
days that you have cold meat, a batter pudding, or 
plain rice pudding, is easily prepared. 

If you wish to have an early breakfast, make every 
preparation tliat you can, over night; set the table, 
have the relish cut, ready to cook, or to warm over — 
and cold bread may be sliced, and wrapped in a cloth to 
keep it moist. Coffee should be ground, and dry fuel, 
and water at hand. With these preparations, break- 
fast may be ready in half an hour from the time the 
fire is made. If you have warm corn bread, or rolls, 
it will require more time ; but if you have them made 
up over night, and put in a cool place, they will not 
sour, and can soon be baked. Maryland biscuit are 
very convenient, as they are always mH will 

keep good a week. I have found it u ^-<- advantage 
to set the table over night, particularly if you have a 
separate room to eat in; although it takes but a short 
time, every minute is important in the morning. 

Where the mistress washes the breakfast things, 
and puts them in their proper places, and counts the 
spoons, and other articles, she can see when any thing 
is missing. A mop is useful for glass and china; 



REMARKS. 89 

keep a pan, or a small tub, for the purpose of holding 
'he water, which should not be too hot. If tea thinsfs 
are put in very hot water, it will be apt to crack them, 
or' they will look smeared. Put a little soa]) in the 
water, wash the glass first, then the silver, then the 
cups and saucers, and lastly, the plates and knives 
and forks. If spoons have been used with eggs, pul 
them to soak immediately, to prevent their turnino 
dark. Have a common waiter for the pan to stand in 
and on it drain your tea things. Spoons when usee 
with care, require polishing but seldom, as it wears 
the silver away. Dinner dishes should be washed first 
in moderately warm water and soap, rinsed in hot 
water, and drained before wiping. Put every thing 
in its proper place, and inspect your pantry and cellar 
frequently. Sometimes things are forgotten, for want 
of attention, until they are spoiled. Air the cellar 
frequently; do not let refuse vegetables accumulate, or 
any thing that would be likely to cause sickness. 

You should provide coarse towels of different kinds, 
for china and glass, and for the dinner dishes ; also 
knife cloths ; have them marked and kept in their 
proper places. Some persons have their towels washed 
out every day ; but it is better to save them for the 
weekly wash. If towels are thrown aside damp, they 
are liable to mildew. You should keep dusters of 
several kinds. Old silk handkerchiefs, are best for 
highly polished furniture, or an old barege veil answers 
a good purpose. For common purposes, a square of 
coarse muslin, or check is suitable. You should keep 
one floor cloth for chambers, and one for the kitchen. 
Keep brooms for different purposes ; always use a soft 
one for carpets ; as soon as they wear stifle, they will 
do for the kitchen, or pavements. Pouring a little hot 
25* 



290 REMARKS. 

"water on a broom, sotlens it lor carpets. You may 
save tea leaves, to sprinkle over your carpet, when 
you give a thorough sweephig, this will brighten it; 
and occasionally to wipe it over, with a cloth, that has 
been wrung out of hot water cleanses it ; of course, 
this is only required for carpets in constant use. 

It is of great importance to health, that sleeping 
apartments should be well aired and swept. If you 
sleep in an apartment, where tlicre has been fire during 
the day, it should be well aired before going to bed , 
or if the room is close, have a little air admitted, so 
as not to blow on persons that are asleep. A window 
that will lower from the top is an advantage. Beds 
should be well aired belbre they are made ; take the 
clothes off, and leave them at least an hour. In 
pleasant weather, you may keep chamber windows 
hoisted, lor several hours; anrl even in cold weather, 
the windows may be kept up a short time ; and if on 
any occasion, you may be obliged to have the beds 
made without airing, turn the clothes half way down, 
and leave them for several hours. Some persons have 
cheap calico covers, to spread over beds, while the 
room is swept; this is a good plan, on account of the 
dust. Bolster and pillow ticks wear better, if you 
have a check case basted on , this should be changed, 
washed and starched occasionally. It is a good plan 
also to have check covers for matresses and feather 
beds; but the covers should not be kept on beds that 
are not in use, lest they should be liable to motli. 
In winter a blanket should be put next a bed that is 
not often slept in, or for a delicate person, and be 
particularly careful, that sheets are dry before they 
are put away. 

In summer it is most healthy to have your chamber 



CULTIVATION OF FLOWERS. 291 

floor bare, and have it washed occasionally. It is 
important to examine your clothes, after they come 
from the wash, and see that they are perfectly dry 
before they are put away. 



CULTIVATION OF FLOWEHS. 



A FEW flowers and plants, when properly taken 
care of, are ornamental to the windows of .a parlor, 
or sitting- room ; and will repay the care that is 
bestowed on them. Begin v.dth a few that are easy 
to cultivate, and you will probably succeed. Persons 
that are fond of flowers, and have collected a number, 
are generally willing to give their young friends a few 
plants; and where we succeed in raising a fine plant 
from a slip, or cutting, we value it more than one that 
has been purchased at a green-house. Geraniums, 
cactus', wax plants, cape and catalonian jessamines, 
and some others, are easily cultivated in a parlor. 
Roses, camelias, and azaleas bloom best in a moderate 
temperature, as the heat of a parlor (unless very large) 
dries the buds, and prevents their coming to perfec- 
tion. I have known these to bloom beautifully in a 
room that was very slightly heated — either over one in 
which there was fire, or in an apartment next a stove 
room. If the weather is very cold, they should be 
removed to a warmer room, until it moderates. The 
windows that are open to the south are best. When 
the blossoms have matured, you can bring thoui to the 
parlor; but if there is much heat, they will not remain 
perfect so long as in a moderate room. 



292 CULTIVATION OF FLOWERS. 

Roses are sometimes troubled with insects, which 
should be brushed ofT with a feather, and the plants 
washed with a decoction of tobacco, (not too strong;) 
they will not bloom when thus infested. There is 
anotlier insect that fastens itself to the bark of lemon 
trees, and other plants; frequent washing with soap- 
suds and brushing the stems, removes it; and some- 
times wash tlie leaves with a sponge, when the 
weather is too cold to put them out of doors. Setting 
them out in a warm rain, or watering them well all 
over the foliage, is very reviving to plants. Be careful 
to have nieces of old broken earthen-ware at the bottom 
of each pot, to drain therri, or the plants will not thrive. 
The earth should be sometimes removed, and an occa- 
sional re-potting, is an advantage; being careful not to 
disturb the roots. A mixture of charcoal and sand, 
and rich earth of more than one kind is thought best. 
Earth fresh from the woods is good for pot-plants, as 
well as borders, but should always be mixed with a 
stronger soil. Roses that are planted round a house, 
should have a deep and rich soil made for them, and 
they will then bloom beautifully all the season. 

Pot-planls should in summer be placed in a situation 
where they will not be exposed to intense heat. Some 
persons place their pots in the earth on the north side 
of the house; others keep them in a porch where they 
can get some sun. They require much more water in 
summer. The wax plant blooms beautifully in summer, 
and should be kept in a sheltered situation, not exposed 
to the wind ; it should have a strong frame of wood 
and wire to run on, well secured in a tub or box. 
Hyacinths and crocuses should be planted in pots, 
boxes, or small tubs, in rich earth, in October or No- 
vemoer; a small painted tub is very suitable, and will 



CULTIVATION OF FLOAVKKS. 293 

hold a dozen hyacinths, and as many crocus roots. 
Tlie most beautiful I ever saw in a window, were 
planted in this way, by keeping some in the sun, and 
others in Ihe shade you can have a succession of 
blooms; they are also pretty in root-glasses, but this 
plan will exhaust the roots. After blooming in the 
house, they should be planted in the garden. The same 
roots will not answer the next year for parlor culture; 
they increase very fast in the garden by proper care. 
There is something refining to the mind in the 
cultivation of flowers, either in a garden or in pots. 
Many hours that would be weary or lonely, are thus 
pleasantly occupied, and the mind refreshed. 



I now take leave of the reader, with a sincere 
desire, that these remarks may be of use; and that 
the receipts which I have been at some pains in 
compiling and arranging, may be acceptable. 



i 



INDEX. 



Accidents — poisons taken by 
mistake, remedies for, 254. 

Acid, to Restore Colors, &c. 212. 

Acts of Kindness, to Encourage 
Children in, 282. 

Adhesive Plaster, 259. 

Ague, Cure for, 250. 

Alamode, Beef, 17. 

Almond Cake, 121. 

Almond Cream, 107. 

Almonds, to Blanch, 110. 

Apple Butter, 143, 144. 

Apples, Baked, 93. 

Apple and Bread Pudding, 94. 

Apples, to keep in Winter, 204. 

Apples, Crab, to Preserve, 127. 

Bacon — to Cure, 166. 
Bacon, Dumplings, 23. 
Bacon Fraise, 22. 
Baking in a Brick-oven, 59. 
Baking in a Dutch- oven, 58. 
Baking in a Stove, 58. 
Balloon Pudding, 93. 
Balls, Force Meat, 20. 
Balsam-apple, &c. 261. 
Bannock, Corn, 79. 
Bark Tincture, 262. 
Bath, Mustard, 231. 
Bathing, 264. 
Batter Pudding, 93. 



Apple Custard, 102 
Apple Dumplings, 97. 
Apple Float, 104. 
Apple Fritters, 99. 
Apple Jelly, 137. 
Apple Marmalade, 138. 
Apples, Pine, 128. 
Apples, to Preserve, 126, 127. 
Apple, Pine, Syrup, 107. 
Apple Pudding, 89. 
Apples, to Stew for Pies, 83. 
Apple Water, 272. 
Apricots, Preserved, 129. 
Arrow-root, 267. 
Arrow- root Pudding, 91 
Asparagus, 54. 



B. 



Barley Panada, 269. 

Barley Water, 268. 

Batter Bread with Yeast, 81. 

Batter, a Loaf of Muffin, 73. 

Beans, Green, for Winter use, 54 

Beans, Lima, 53. 

Beans, String, 53. 

Bean Soup, 34. 

Beds, Feather, 212. 

Bedsteads, Cleaning, 208. 

Bee, Sting of a, 252. 

Beef Alamode, 17. 

Beef, Curing, 173 

Beef, Dried, 172. 



296 



INDEX. 



Beef, Fried, 18 

Beef's Heart, Baked, 17. 

Beef Kidney, to Fry, 18. 

Beef, Pickle for two Rounds, 174. 

Beef Pudding, Baked, 25. 

IJeef, Pork, or Mutton Cured, 174. 

JJeef's Feet, 270. 

Beef, Roasted, 14. 

Heef Steak, 17. 

Beef Steak Pudding, 24. 

lieef Steak Pie, 24. 

Beef Spiced in Irish style, 25. 

]?eef. Stewed, for the Sick, 26i». 

Beef Shin Soup, 32. 

Beef, Stulied, Round of. 17. 

Beef Tea, 271. 

15eef's Tongue, to Boil, 10. 

lieer, Harvest, 152. 

Ueer. .Molasse.-*, 153. 

Beer, Porter, 153. 

Beer, Spruce, 152. 

Reer, to make two Gallons, 152. 

Heets, 56. 

ilerrics. Spice Wood, 2G3. 

V,[\os. Cure for, 261. 

Bilious Colic, 247. 

Birds' Nest Pudding, 96. 

Miscuit, Dj-spepsy, 70. 

iJiscuit, Light, 69. 

Biscuit, Maryland, 69. 

Biscuit. Naples, 120. 

Biscuit. Quick, 69. 

Biscuit, Salaeratus, 69. 

Biscuit, Tea. 70. 

Bitters, Wine, 263. 

Black Cake, 121. 

Black Currant Jelly, 265. 

T'.lackbcrn,- Cordial, 148. 

niac'iiberry Fiummer}-, 128. 

Blackberries, to Preserve, 123. 

Blackberr>- Wine, 149. 

Blackingfor Boots and Shoos, 215. 

Blacking for Morocco Shoes, 215. 

Black Walnuts, to Pickle, 159 



Blancmange, 109. 

Blancmange of Moss, 104. 

Blancmange, Calf's Foot, for the 
Sick, 269. 

Blancmange of Jelly, 109. 

Blankets, 207. 

Blister Ointment, 257. 

Blue, to Color Cotton, 20S. 

Boiling Fresh Meat, 9. 

Boiling Puddings, 97. 

Bologna Sausage, 170. 

Boots and Shoes, to make Water- 
proof, 215. 

Brain Cakes, 20. 

Brains and Tongue, 19. 

Brandy, Lemon, 147. 

Brandy, Rose, 148. 

Brandy, Peaches in, 140. 

Brass, to Clean, 213. 

Brazil Wood Dye, 202. 

Brittania Ware, 213. 

Brick Oven, to Bake in, 59. 

Brick Oven Directions. 60. 

Bread, 57. 

Bread, Dyspepsy, 62. 

Bread, Graham, 61. 

Bread, Light, 58. 

Bread, Corn Meal, 77. 

Bread. Mixed, 82. 

Bread, Batter, with Yeast. 81. 

Bread and Apple Pudding, 94. 

Bread, Indian, 80 ' 

Bread Pudding, 94. 

Bread Rusk, 12.5. 

Bread Batter Cakes, 75. 

Bread Rolls, 68. 

Bread of Indian Moal, r^^marks on 
making, 77. 

Bruises, 252. 

Brown, to Color, 201. 

Brown Mixture for a Cough, 229 

Broth, Mutton and Veal, 271. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 76. 

Bunions, 260. 



INDEX. 



297 



Bunns, 122. 

Burns and Scalds, 249. 

Butter, 176. 

Butter for Winter Use, 178. 

Butter, a Pickle for, 180. 



Cabbage, to Boil, 52. 
Cabbajie, to Pickle, 162. 
Cake, Almond, 121. 
Cake, Remarks on Making 

Baking, 111. 
Cake, Black, 121. 
Cakes, Brain, 20. 
Cakes, Bread Batter, 75. 
Cakes, Butter-milk, 76, 122, 
Cakes, Butter-milk Batter, 77 
Cakes, Buckwheat, 76. 
Cake, Composition, 122. 
Cakes, Corn Batter, 79. 
Cakes, Cheese, 92. 
Cake, Cider, 120. 
Cake, Crisp Ginger, 123. 
Cake, Cup, 117. 
Cake,Jipver, 120. 
Cake, Flannel, 75. 
Cake, Fruit, Cheap, 114. 
Cake, Fruit, Rich, 113. 
Cake, Ginger Cup, 123. 
Cake, Icing for, 112. 
Cake, Indian Pound, 116. 
Cake, Jelly, 120, 
Cake, Journey, 79. 
Cake. Lemon Sponge, 117. 
Cako, Loaf, 117. 
Cakes, Little Indian, 81. 
Cakes, Maryland Corn, 81. 
Cake, Madison, 115. 
Cakes, Mush Flannel, 75. 
Cake, New Year, 120. 
Cakes, Pan, 98, 99. 
Cake, Pound, 114. 
Cake, Plum or Fruit, 114- 
Cake. Plum, raised, 121. 
26 



Butter to Keep a Length of Time, 

178. 
Butter-milk, Batter Cakes, 77. 
Butter, Drawn, 22. 

c. 

Cake, Queen, 118. 
Cake, Rice, Sponge, 116. 
Cake, Rice Pound, 116. 
and Cakes, Rico, 79. 

Cake, Sponge, ilG. 

Cake, Sponge, in Small Pans, 117 

Cake, Salffiratus, 70. 

Cake, Short, 71. 

Cake, Virginia Hoe, 81. 

Cake, Washington, 115. 

Cakes, Wafer, 70. 

Cake, White, 115. 

Calf's Foot, Blancmange, 269. 

Calf's Foot Jelly, 10". 

Calf's Head to Boil, 11. 

Calf's Head, to Brown, 21. 

Calf's Head Soup, 31. 

Candles, 191. 

Candied Preserves, 145 

Candy, Hoarhound, 230. 

Cantelopes, to Preserve, 131. 

Calicoes, Washing, 192. 

Carolina Corn Rolls, 82. 

Carrageen or Irish Moss Blanc 

mange, 104. 
Carpets. Rag, 206. 
Carpets, to put Straw under, 211 
Carrots, 56. 

Catsup, Cucumber, 163. 
Catsup, Mushroom, 164. 
Catsup, Tomato, 163. 
Catsup, Green Tomato, 164. 
Catsup, Walnut, 164. 
Cauliflowers, 52. 
Carving, Remarks on, 279. 
Cedar Dye, 201. 
Celery Sauce, 23 



298 



INDEX. 



Cellars, Cleaning, 210. 
Cement, Fire-proof, 214. 
Cement l»r Bottles, 22 K 
Cement for mending iron, 2 14, 220. 
Cement, Weather-proof, 220. 
Cliiippeil Lips, 263. 
Charity, Economy tiie Source of, 

2Sl. 
Charcoal, Magnesia and Salts, 240. 
Cheese, 180. 
Cheese Cakes, 92. 
Cheese, Cottage, 182. 
Cheese Cur.ls, 105. 
Cheese, Pennsylvania Cream, 182. 
Cheese, Hogshead, 170. 
Cheese, Walnut, 146. 
Cherries, Dried, 1 13. 
Cherries, lo Pickle, 161. 
Cherries and Peaches, to Pickle, 

157. 
Cherries to Preserve, 128, 129. 
Cherrj' Cordial, 147. 
Cherry Sauce, 141. 
Cherry Toast, 102. 
Chickens, to Broil, 29. 
Chickens, to Fry, 26. 
Chickens, to Fry, in Batter, 27. 
Chickens. Fricasseed, 27. 
Chickens in Paste, 27. 
Chicken, Cold, witli Vinegar, 30. 
Chicken Pie, 28. 
Chicken Pudding, 29. 
Chickens, to Roast. 13. 
Chicken Salad, 30. 
Chickens Stewed with Rice, 30 
Chickens Stewdd with Corn, 29. 
Chickens, to Stew, for the Sick, 

270. 
Chicken Soup, 31. 
Chicken Wa^-r 270. 
Chilblains, Remedy for, 2.31. 
Cliina, Mending, 221. 
Chines, 16S. 
Chocolate, for the Sick. 273. 



Chocolate, Racahaut, 185. 

Chops, Mutton, 18. 

Chloride of Lime, 216. 

Cholera jMorbus, 244, 247 

Chrome Yellow Wash, 199. 

Cider, to make, 153. 

Cider Marmalade, 145. 

Citron Melon, 130. 

Clams, to Fry and Stew, 36. 

Clear Starching, 192. 

Cleaning Bedsteads, 208. 

Cleaning Cellar-;, 210. 

Cleaning Floors, 209. 

Cleaning Kid Gloves, 225. 

Cleaning Paint, 208. 

Cleaning Silver, 213. 

Cleaning Stoves, -13. 

Cloth, to take Lime out of, 217. 

Cloth, to take Wax out of, 217. 

Coconnut Pudding, 89. 

Cod Fish, Salt, 36. 

Coffee, to Boil and Roast, 183, 4 

Collee for the Sick, 272. 

Cold Cu.'=tard, 102. 

Cold Slaw, 51. 

Colds, Remedy for, 232. 

Colic, 247. 

Colic, Bilious, 247. 

Colic, Infants, 235. 

Cologne, 14S. 

Colors taken out by Acids, tc 

Restore, 212. 
Coloring, 200. 
Conserve, Peaches to, 141. 
Conserve, Pears to, 140. 
Conserve of Roses, 142. 
Cooking for the Sick, 266. 
Cordial. Bhckberry, 148. 
Cordial, Cherry, 147. 
Cordial, Peach, 1 17. 
Cordial, Quince, 147. 
Cordial, Warner's, 248. 
Cordials, Wines, &.c. 147 
Corn Bannock. 73. 



INDEX. 



299 



Corn Batter Cakes, 79. 

Com Beef, to Boil, 10. 

Corn Dumplings, 98. 

Corn Flour, Dry Yeast of, 63. 

Corn Fritters, 44. 

Corn, to Fricassee, 44. 

Corn, Green, for Winter use, 44. 

Corn, Green, to Boil, 44. 

Corn Bread, 77. 

Corn Gruel, 267. 

Corn Meal Porridge, 78. 

Corn Meal Pudding, 91. 

Corn Muffins, 82. 

Corn Pudding in Paste, 92. 

Corn Starch, 193. 

Corns, Salve for, 260. 

Cottage Cheese, or Smeaixase, 

182. 
Cough, for a, 228. 
Cough, Remarks on a, 226. 
Cough, Brown Mixture for a, 229. 
Cougn, Lemon Mixture for a, 230. 
Cough, Whooping, 233. 
Crab Apples, to Preserve, 127. 
Crackers, Soaked, 83. 
Cracks in Stoves, to Mend, 214. 
Cramp, 249. 

Cramp in the Stomach, 248. 
Cranberries, 132. 
Cream, .\lmond, 107. 
Cream, Cheese, 182. 
Cream, Custard, 103. 
Cream, Ice, Freezing, 108. 
Cream Sauce, 101. 
Cream, Snow, 111. 
Cream, Toast, 269. 
Cream, Poultice, 259. 



Crisp Ginger Bread, 123. 
Croup, for the, 233. 
Crullers, 123. 
Cucumber Catsup, 163. 
Cucumbers, Cut, to Pickle, 162. 
Cucumbers, to Fry or Slice, 51. 
Cucumbers, to Pickle, 157. 
Cucumbers, to Pickle, Small, 157 
Cucumbers, to Pceserve, 131. 
Cultivation of Flowers, 291. 
Cup Cake, 117. 
Curds, Cheese, 105. 
Curds, Sldra, 105. 
Curds, Whey Skim, 105 
Currant Jelly, 13G. 
Currant Jelly, Black, 265. 
Currant Pie, 88. 
Currants, to Preserve, 127. 
Currant Syrup, 137. 
Currant Wine, 150. 
Curtains, 207. 
Custard, Apple, 102. 
Custard Baked in Cups, 102. 
Custard, Boiled. 102, 266. 
Custard, to Boil in Water, 103. 
Custard, Cream, 103, 
Custard, Cold, 102. 
Custard, Ice, 103. 
Custard, with Raisins, 103. 
Custard Bread Pudding, 93. 
Custard Hasty Pudding, 94. 
Custard for the Sick, 266. 
Cutlets, Veal, 19. 
Cutting Glass, 225. 
Cuts and Wounds, Remedy for, 

253. 
Cymblings, or Squashes, 54. 



D. 



Damsons, to Preserve, 133. 
Damsons for Pies, 143. 
Damson Sauce, 141. 
Deafness, 242. 
Debility, Bitters for, 263. 



Decanter, to Remove a Stoppei 

from, 217. 
Diseases, Summer, 2.S6. 
Domestics, on the Management 

of, 274. 



300 



INDLX. 



Dough-nuts, 125. 
Drab, to Color, 200. 
Drawn Butter, 22. 
Dressing, or Stuffing, 23. 
Dried Beef. 172. 
Dried Beef, to Stew, 269. 
Dropsy, 24f., 241, 
Ducks, to Roast, Vi. 
Dutch-ovens, to-Bake in, 58. 
Dumplings, Apple, and Peach, 97. 
Dumplings, Bacon, 23 
Dumplings, Corn, 93. 
Dumplings, Drop, 23. 
Dumplings, Suet, 98. 
Dumplings, Large, 97. 
Dumplings, Light Bread, 98. 
Dumplings, Rico, 9S. 
Dumplings, Screw, 97. 



Dyeing Black, 200. 
Dyeing Brown, 201. 
Dyeing Carpet Rags, 200. 
Dyeing wilh Cedar houghs, 201. 
Dyeing Cotton, blue. 203. 
Dyeing Drab, 200. 
Dyeing witli Brazil Wood, 202. 
Dyeing Lead Color, 202. 
Dyeing Olive, 201. 
Dyeing Orange, 199. 
Dyeing Red, 202. 
Dyeing Scarlet, 203. 
Dyeing Yellow, 200, 201. 
Dyeing Yarn Green, 203. 
Dyspepsy Bread, 62. 
Dyspepsy Biscuit, 70. 
Dysentery, 243, 244. 



E. 



Ear-ache, Remedy for, 244. 
Ears, Wasli for Sore, 245. 
Earthen Vessels, 220. 
Early Rising Promotes Punctu 

tuality, -283. 
Economy, the Source of Charity 

281. 
Egg Plant, to Bake, 49. 
Egg Plant, to Fry, 50. 
Eggs, to Boil, 43. 
Eggs, to Fry, 43. 
Eggs, to Clean Soiled, 216. 
Eggs to Grease, for Winter use, 

215. 



Egg Panada, 267. 
Eggs, to Poach, 42. 
Egg Rolls, 66. 
Egg Sauce, 23, 101. 
Eggs in Lime-water, 216. 
, Elderberry Wine, 150. 

Elderberry Jam for Colds, 265. 
Elder Ointment, 257. 
Elecampane and Hoarhound Sy- 
rup, 229. 
English Walnuts, 158. 
Erysipelas, 239. 
Eyes, Wash for Weak, 245. 



F. 



Falls, 251. 

Feather Beds, 212. 

Felons. 252. 

Fi.,"*. Tomato, 145 

FilttTinE: Water. 222 

Fire, Precautions against, 217. 

Fish, Fresh, to Boil, 37. 

Fish, Fresh, to Frj-, 35. 



Fish, Oysters, Stc, 31. 

Fish, Rock, to Stew or Bake. 34, 

35. 
Fish, Salt Cod, to BoU, 36.- 
Flannel Cakes, 75. 
Flannels, to Wash, 196. 
Flaxseed Poultice, 258. 
Floating Island, 104. 



INDEX. 



30] 



French Rolls, 6S. 

Floors, to Clean, 209. 

Floors, to take Grease out of, 214. 

Flour, to Brown for Gravy, 22. 

Flowers, the Cultivation of, 291. 

Flummery, Blackberry, 128. 

Flummery, Rice, 100. 

Food for the Sick, 266. 

Force Meat Balls, 20. 

Fowls to Bake, 26. 

Fox Grape Jam, 136. 

Fraise Bacon, 22. 

Fresh Meat, to Boil, 9. 

Fresh Meat, to Keep, 175. 

Fresh Meat, to Hestore when kept 

too long, 174. 
French Honey, 136. 



Float, Apple, 104. 

Freezing Ice Cream, 108. 

Fresh Shad, to Bake, 3.5. 

Fricassee, Chickens to, 27. 

Fricassee, Corn, to, 44. 

Fricassee, Tomatoes to, 48 

Fritters, Apple, 99. 

Fritters, Corn, 44. 

Fritters, Indian Meal, 99. 

Fritters, Oysters, 39. 

Fritters, Rice, 99. 

Fritters, Snow, 100. 

Fruit Cake, 113, 114. 

Fruit, Frosted, 142. 

Fruit to Slew for Pies, 83. 

Furs and Woolens, to Keep, 206 

Furniture, Linseed Oil for, 221. 



G, 



Gathering on a Finger, 262. 
Gardens and Yards, 218. 
Geese, to Pick, 211. 
General Remarks, &c., 77. 
Giblet Pie and Soup, 28. 
Gingerbread, Crisp, 123. 
Gingerbread, Light, 123 
Gingerbread Nuts, 123. 
Ginger Cup-cake, 123. 
Ginger, to Preserve Green, 129. 
Ginger Tea, 229. 
Ginger Wine, 151 
Glass, to Cut, 225. 
Goose, to Roast, 13. 
Gooseberries, to Preserve, 132. 
Gooseberry Wine, 149. 
Gloves, to Clean Kid, 225. 
Gout, 248. 

Grapes in Brandy, 141. 
Grapes for Pies, 142. 



Ham, to Bake, 16. 
Ham, to Boil, 11. 
Hams, to Cure, 167. 

26^ 



Graham Bread, 61. 

Grate? and Stoves, to Clean, 213 

Gravy, to Brown Flour for, 22. 

Gravy, Hash, 14. 

Gravy with Roast Turkey, 12. 

Greasers for Bake Irons, 220. 

Grease, to take, out of Floors, 214 

Greens, to Boil, .52. 

Green Beans for Winter use, 54. 

Green Corn Pudding, 95. 

Green, to Color, 203. 

Green Peppers, to Preserve, 135 

Green Tomato Catsup, 164. 

Green Wash, 200. 

Gruel, Corn, 267. 

Gruel, Oat Meal, 267. 

Gum Arabic Paste, 223. 

Gumbo Soup, 33. 

Gums, Scurvy of, 261. 



H. 



Ham, to Frj', IS. 

Ham, to Stew, for the Sick, 270. 

Hash made of Fowls, 24 



302 



INDEX. 



Hash, Veal, 20. 
Hash Gravj', 14. 
Hasty Custard Pudding, 94. 
Hasry Pudding of Indian Meal, 82. 
Head-ache, Remedy lor, 243. 
Hearths, a Wash lor, 215. 
Heatin;; a Brick-oven, 60. 
Herb-;, (lardens and Yards, 21S. 
Herring and Shad, 1".}. 
Herring, Harlbrd, 176. 
Herring, Fresh, to Pot, 36. 
H -rring, to Boil, 37. 
Hints to Young Wives, 2S4. 
Hoarhound and Elecampane Sy- 
rup. 223. 



Hoarhouna Candy, 230. 
Hoe Cake, SI. 
Hogshead Cheese, 170. 
Hominy, to Boil or Frj', 45. 
Honey and Lemon Juice for a 

Cough, 230. 
Hop Ointment, 256 
Hop Poultice, 259. 
Housekeepers, to Encourage, in 

their First Attempts, 287. 
House Linen, Care of, 208. 
Huckleberry Pudding, 95. 
Huckleberry Pudding, Elkridge, 

95. 
Huxham's Bark Tincture, 262. 



I. 



Ice Cbeam, Freezing, los. 

Ice Cream, superior Receipt for 

Making. 10-: 
Ice Cream witii Fruit, 109. 
Ice Cream with Lemon, 108. 
Ices, to Stain, 109. 
Icing, for Cake, 112. 
Ice Custard with Vanilla, 103. 
Indian Bread with Butter-milk, 80. 



Indian (Jorn, Remarks on the Use 

of, 77. 
Indian Pound Cake, 116. 
Infant's Colic, 235. 
Infant's Sore Mouth, 261. 
Irish Stew, 22. 
Irish Moss Blancmange, 104. 
Island, Floating, 104. 
Isinglass Jelly, 109. 



Jam, Klderberrj", 265. 
Jam, Green Fox Grape, 135. 
Jam, Ripe Fox Grape, 13C. 
Jelly, Appl-N 137. 
Jelly, Blancmange, of, 109. 
Jelly, Black Currant, 265. 
Jelly, Currant, 136. 
Jelly. Calf's Foot, 109. 
Jelly, Cake, 120. 
Jelly, Green Grape, 135. 
Jelly, Isinglass, 109. 
Jelly, .Mulled, 272. 



Jellies, Preserves, &c., 126. 

Jelly, Quince, 137. 

Jelly, Tapioca, 268. 

Jelly, Tomato, 48. 

Journey Cake, 79. 

Jumbles, Common, II ^ 

Jumbles, Cup, 119. 

Jumbles for Delicate Persons, 119. 

Jumbles, Molasses, US. 

Jumbles, Jackson, 119. 

Jumbles, Rich, 118. 



INDEX. 



303 



K. 

Kkttles, Preserving, to clean, Kidneys, Affections of the, 262. 

224. Kidney, to fry Beef with, 18. 

Keeping Apples for Winter use. Kisses, 111. 

204, Knives and Forks, to clean, 224. 
Kid Gloves, to clean, 225. 



L. 



Labor Saving Soap, 189. 

Lamb, to Roast, 14. 

Lamb, to Stew or Fry, 19. 

Lard, Rendering, 185. 

Lavender, Compound, 265. 

Lead Color, 202. 

Lemon Brandy, 147. 

Lemon Butter, 136. 

Lemon, Green, to Preserve, 130. 

Lemon and Honey for a Cough, 

230. 
Lemon Ice Cream, 108. 
Lemon Marmalade, 139. 
Lemon Mixture for a Cough, 230. 
Lemon Pucrding, 90. 
Lemon Syrup, 106, 107. 
Lemon Juice, Syrup of, 107. 
Lettuce, 51. 
Ley Poultice, 259. 



Ley and Soda, Preparation for 

Washing, 190. 
Lima Beans, 53. 
Lime, Chloride of, 216. 
Lime, to take, out of Cloth, 217. 
Linen, House, 20S. 
Linen, to take Ink and Fruit Stains 

out of, 218. 
Linseed Oil for Furniture, 221. 
Light Biscuit, 69. 
Light Bread Dumplings, 98. 
Lily Root Poultice, 259. 
Lily Ointment, 257. 
Liver Sausage, 170. 
Liver, to Fry, 19. 
Liver, to Fry Veal's, 20. 
Liverwort Syrup, 231. 
Loaf Cake, 117. 
Locked-jaw, 251. 



Macaroons, 119. 
Mackerel, to Boil, 37. 
Madison Cake, 115. 
Magnesia, Charcoal and Salts, 240 
Mahogany* Furniture, 214. 
Mangoes, 156. 
Mangoes, Pepper, 160. 
Mangoes with Oil and Vinegar 

Pickling, 156. 
Mansfield Muffins, 72. 
Marble, 212. 
Marmalade, Apple, 138. 
Marmalade, Cider, 145. 
Marmalade, Lemon, 139. 
Marmalade of mixed Fruits, 139. 



M. 

Marmalade, Peach, 138. 
Marmalade, Quince, 139. 
Maryland Biscuit, 69. 
Maryland Corn Cakes, 81. 
Matressea, Directions for Making, 

204. 
Meat, to Boil Fresh, 9. 
, Meat, Fresh, to Restore, 174 
Meat, to keep Fresh, 175. 
Meat, Roasting, 12. 
Melon Citron, to Preserve, 130. 
Mending China, 221. 
Mending Clothes, 196. 
Milk PoiTidge, 268. 
Milk Rolls, 65. 



304 



INDEX. 



Milk Toast, 269. 

Milk, to use at Sea, 106 

Milk Yeast, 65. 

Mince Pies, 85. 

Mince Pies, Farmers, 86. 

Mince Pies, Pork, 88. 

Mixture, Brown, for Cough, 229. 

Mola.«ses Beer, 153. 

loiasscs Candy, 146. 
3Iolasses Jumbles, 118. 
Molasses Posset, for a Cold, 232. 
Molasses Sauce, 101. 
Mortification, Ointment for, 253. 

Mulfins, 72 

Muinns, Boiled Milk, 73. 
Miiirin Batter, a Loaf of, 73. 
MulHns, Cold Water, 71. 
MufTins, Corn, S2. 
Mulfins, Cream, 74. 
Muffins, Mansfield, 72. 



Muffins, Rice, 72. 

Muffins, Smith, 71. 

-Mulled Jelly, 272. 

Mulled Wine, 272. 

Mush, 78. 

IMush Cakes, Fried Mush, 78. 

Mush Flannel-cakes, 75. 

Mush Muffins, 73. 

Mush Rolls, 67. 

Mush, Rye, 273. 

Mushroom Catsup, 164. 

Mushroom Sauce, 165. 

Mushrooms, to Pickle, 161. 

Mushrooms, to Stew and Fry, 50 

Mustanl Bath, for the Feet, 231 

Mustard Whey, 2.38. 

Mutton Chops, 18. 

Mutton and Veal Broth, 271. 

Mutton Soup, 32. 



N. 



Naples Biscuit, 120. 
Nasturtions, 161. 



New Year Cake. 120.- 



0. 



0.\T-MEAL Gruel, 267. 

Ointment, Blister, 257. 

Ointment. Elder, 2.57. 

Ointment, Hop, 256. 

Ointment. Lily, 257 

Ointment, for Mortification, 253. 

Ointment, Precipitate, 257. 

Ointment, St. Johnswort, 258. 

Ointment, Tar, 255. 

Olive, to Color, 201. 

Omelet, 43. 

Omelet, Tomato, 47. 

Onions, to Boil, 56. 

Onions sliced with Tomatoe.i, 49. 

Onions, Pickled, 161. 

Onion Poultice, 259. 



Orange, to Color, If)!). 
Oven, Baking in a Dutch, 58. 
Oven, Brick, Directions for Heat 

ing, 59. 
Oysters and Fish, 34. 
Oysters, to Fry, 39. 
Oyster Fritters, 39. 
Oyster Pie, 40, 41. 
Oyster Pie, Baltimore, 40. 
Oysters, to Brown, 42. 
Oysters, Pickled, 42. 
Oyster Plant, or Salsify, 50, 
Oyster Sauce, 41. 
Oysters, to Stew, 40. 
Oyster Soup, 38. 
Oysters, Scolloped, 39. 



INDEX. 



305 



Paint, to Clean, 208. 

Panada, 266. 

Panada, Barley, 269. 

Panada, Egg, 267. 

Pan Cakes, 9S. 

Pan Cakes, Water, 99. 

Papeied Walls, 225. 

Parsnips, 55. 

Paste, Gum Arabic, 223. 

Paste, I'or Puddings or Pies, 84. 

Peaches in Brandy, 140. 

Peaciies, to Conserve, 141. 

Peaches in Cider, 140. 

Peach Dumplings, 97. 

Peach Marmalade, 138. 

Peaches, Pickled, 158. 

Peaches, to Preserve, 132. 

Peaches, Spiced, 165. 

Peach Pie, 87. 

Pears, to Conserve, 140 

Pears, to Preserve, 136. 

Peas, 53. 

Pea Soup, 33. 

Peppers, Green, to Preserve, 135. 

Pepper Mangoes, 160. 

Pickle for Butter, 180, 

Pickle for Chines, 168. 

Pickled Oysters, 42. 

Pickled Pork, 167. 

Pickles, Vinegar, Stc, 147. 

Pickles, Yellow, 159. 

Picking Geese, 211. 

Pie, Chicken, 28. 

Pie, Beef Steak, 24. 

Pie Crust, to Make, 84. 

Pie, Currant, 88. 

Pie, Mince, 85, 86. 

Pie, Peach, 87. 

Pie, Oyster, 40. 

Pie, Pork Mince, 88. 

Pie, Puddings, &c. 83. 

Pie, Rhubarb, 87 



Pie, Sweet Potato, 87. 
Pies, to make Common, 83. 
Pies, to Stew Fruit lor, 83. 
Pigeons, 16. 
Pigs' Feet, 170. 
Pigs' Head, 16. 
Pig, to Roast a, 14. 
Pine Apples, 128. 
Pine Apple Syrup, 107. 
Plaster, Adhesive, 259. 
Plum Cake, 114. 
Plum Cake, raised, 121. 
Plums, Green Gage, 130. 
Poached Eggs, 42, 268. 
Poison, Remedy for, 254. 
Pokeberry Juice., to Staiu Ices, 

109. 
Poke and Greens, 52. 
Pone, Cold Water, 80. 
Pone, Lightened, 80. 
Pone, Virginia, 80. 
Pork, to Fry and Stew, 19. 
Pork, or Mutton, to Corn, 174. 
Pork, to Pickle, 167. 
Pork, to Roast, 15. 
Pork Stew Pie, 25. 
Porter Beer, 153. 
Porridge, Corn Meal, 78. 
Porridge, Milk, 268. 
Potatoes, to Boil, 45. 
Potatoes, to Fry, 47. 
Potatoes, Sweet, 46. 
Potato Starch, 193. 
Potatoes, to Stew. 46. 
Potato Yeast, 64. 
Potato Yeast, with Sugar, 64. 
Potasli Soap, 188. 
Pot Pie, 28. 
Pound Cake, 114. 
Poultice, Bread and Milk, 258. 
Poultice, Cream, 259. 
Poultice, Flaxseed, 258. 



306 



INDEX. 



Poultice, Hop, 25S. 
Poultice, Ley, 259. " 
Poultice, Lily. 259.. 
Poultice, Onion, 239. 
Poultice, S;issafras, 2*31. 
Precautions against Fire, 217. 
Precipitate Ointment, 257. 
Preserves, Candied, 145. 
Preserves, Jellies, Stc, 126 
Pudding, .\pple, 89. 
Pudding, .\rrow Koot, 91 
Pudding, Baked, 93. 
Pudding. Baked Beef, 25. 
Puddiag, Balloon, 93. 
Pudding, Batter, 93. 
Pudding, BirilV Nest, 96. 
Pudding, Boiling. 97. 
Pudding, Boiled Indian, 96. 
Pudding, Beef Steak, 24. 
Pudding, Bread, 94 
Pudding, Chicken, 29. 
Pudding, Coaco-nut, 89. 
Pudding of Corn Meal, 91. 
Pudding, Cusfard Bread, 93. 
Pudding, Custard Hasty, 94. 



Queen Cake, 118. 
Quick Biscuit, 69. 
Quick Waflles, 74. 
Quince Jelly, 137. 



Pudding. Green Corn, 95. 
Pudding, Huckleberry, 95. 
Pudding, Elkridge, Huckleberry, 

S5. 
Pudding, Lemon, 9i). 
Pudding, New England Hasty, 82 
Pudding, Preserve, 90. 
Pudding, Plain Rice, 93. 
Pudding, Potato, 89. 
Pudding, Pumpkin, 88. 
Pudding, Quince, 89. 
Pudding, Rice, 91. 
Padding of whole Rice, 91. 
Pudding, Richmond, 92. 
Pudding, Suet, 92. 
Pudding, Sweet Potato, 90. 
Pudding, Switzerland, 96. 
Puddings, in little Pans, 96. 
Pumpkins, to Bake, 55. 
Pumpkins, lo Dry, 55. 
Pumpkins, to Preserve, 135. 
Pumpkins, to Boil, 55. 
Pull' Paste, 85. 
Putty, to Remove, 225. 



Q. 



Quince Marmalade, 139. 
Quince Pudding, 89. 
Quinces, 134. 



R. 



Rabbits and Squirrels, 18. 
Racahaut Chocolate, 185. 
Rag Carpet, to make a, 206. 
Raisins in Syrup, 110. 
Raspberries, to Preserve, 130, 
Raspbi^rry Vinegar, 152. 
Raspberry Wine, 151. 
Rats and Roaches, to destroy, 210 
Red, to Color, 202. 
Red Mi.\ture, 233. 
Remarks upon a Cough, 226. 



Remarks on Carving, and the be- 
havior of children at tatle, 279. 

Remarks to Encourage Young 
Housekeepers in their first at- 
tempts, 287. 

Remedies, Simple, 226. 

Rendering Lard and Tallow, 185, 
186. 

Rennet, for Cheese, 182. 

Rennet Whey, 271. 

Rennet Wine, 106. 



INDEX. 



30': 



Rheumatism, 241. 

Rhubarb Pies, 87. 

lilmbarb, Spiced, 263. 

Rice, to Boil, -57. 

Rice Cakes, 79. 

Rice Dumplings, 98. 

Rice Fritters, 99. 

Rice Flour Pound Cake, 116. 

Rice Flour Sponge Cake, 116. 

Rice Flummery, 100. 

Rice Dish with Fruit, 94. 

Rice Milk, 100. 

Rice Muffins, 72. 

Rice Pudding, 91. 

Rice Padding, Plain, 93. 

Rice, Stewed with Chicken, 30. 

Rice WaiBes, 75. 

Rich Fruit Cake, 113. 

Richmond Pudding, 92. 

Roasting Coffee, 183. 



Sago, 268. 
Salad, Chicken, 30. 
Salaeratus Biscuit, 69. 
Salaeratus Cake, 70. 
Sally Lunn, 76. 
Salsify or Oyster Plant, 50. 
Salt Cod, 3G. 
Salt Shad, to Broil, 35. 
Salt Shad, to Boil, 37. 
Salt Salmon, to Boil, 37. 
Salve for Burns, 260. 
Salve for Corns, 260. 
Salve, Deshler's, 260. 
Sauce, Celery, 23. 
Sauce, Cream, 101. 
Sauce, Egg, 23, 101. 
Sauce, Molasses, 101. 
Sauce, Mushroom, 165. 
Sauce, Oyster, 41. 
Sauce, Tomato, 165. 
Sauce, Wine, 101. 
Saucs, White, 101. 



Roasting Meat, 12. 

Rock Fish, to' Stew or Bake, 34, 

35. 
Rolls, Bread, 68. 
Rolls, Boiled Milk, 65. 
Rolls, Carolina Corn, 82. 
Rolls, Egg, 66. 
Rolls, French, 68. 
Rolls, Mush, 67. 
Rolls, Potato, 66. 
Rolls, Soft, 66. 
Rolls, Twist, 68. 
Rolls, Water, 66. 
Rose Brandy, 148. 
Rose Conserve, 142. 
Rose Water, 148. 
Rusk, 124. 
Rusk, Bread, 125. 
Rusk for Drying, 124. 
Rye, Mush, 273. 



s. 



Sausage, Bologna, 170. 

Sausage Meat, 168. 

Sausage, Liver, 170. 

Sassafras Poultice, 261. 

Scalds and Burns, 249. 

Scarlet, to Dye, 203. 

Scolloped Oysters, 39. 

Scr&pple, 171. 

Screw Dumplings, 97. 

Scurv)'' of the Gums, 261. 

Shad, to put up, and Herring, 175 

Shad, to Broil, or Bake, 35. 

Silver, to Clean, 213. 

Simple Remedies, 226. 

Skim Curds of Whey, 105. 

Skim Curds, 10-5. 

Short Cake, 71. 

Slaw, Cold, 51. 

Smearcase, or Cottage Cheese, 

1S2. 
Snow Cream, 111. 
Snnu- Fritters, 100. 



308 



INDEX. 



Soap, 186. 

Soap. Hard, 188. 

Soap, Labor Saving, 189. 

Soap, Potash, 133. 

Soap. Volatilp, 190. 

Soap Stones, 231. 

Sore Mouth, Infants, 261. 

Sore Throat, for a, 231. 265. 

Soups, 31. 

Soup, Beef Shin, 32. 

Soup, Calfs Head, 31 

Soun, Chicken, 31. 

Soup of Dried Beans, 34. 

Soup, Giblet, 28. 

Soup, Gumbo, 33. 

Soup, .Mutton, 32. 

Soup, Oyster, 38. 

Soup, Pea, 33. 

Soup, Shin, 32. 

Soup, Vegetable, 34. 

Souse, 171. 

Spermaceti, to take out of cloth, 

217. 
Spice-wood Berries, 263. 
Spiced Peaches, 165. 
Spiced Beef, 25. 
Spider, for tlie Bite of a. 252. 
Sprained Ankle, 2-50. 
Sprained Liinb, 253. 
Spruce Ccer, 152. 
Sponge Cake, 116. 
Sfpiashes, or Cymblings, 54. 
Squirrels and Rabbits, 18. 
Stains, to take out of Linen, 218. 
Starch, Common, 194. 



Starch, Corn, 193. 

Starch, Potato, 193. 

Starching, Clear, 192. 

Steak, Beef, 17. 

Stew, Irish, 22. 

Sting of a Bee, 252. 

Stirabout, 82. 

Stoves or Grates, to Clean, 213. 

Stopper, to Remove from a De- 
canter, 217. 

Stoves, to Mend, 214. 

Strawberries, 133. 

String Beans, 53. 

Straw under Carpets, 21! 

St. Johnswort Ointment, 258. 

Stuffing, or Dressing, 23. 

Suet Pudding, 92. 

Suet, to keep Several Months, 
105. 

Sugar, to Clarify, 126. 

Summer Diseases, 236. 

Sweet Potatoes, 46. 

Sweet Potato Pie, 87. 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 90. 

Sweet Bread, Veal, 21. 

Switzerland Pudding, 96. 

Syrups and Ices, 106. 

Syrup, Currant, 137. 

Syrup, Hoarhound, and Elecam- 
pane, 229. 

.Syrup, Lemon, 106, 107. 

Syrup of Lemon Juice, 107. 

Syrup, Liverwort. 231. 

Syrup, Pine Apple, 107. 

Syrup, Raisins in, 110. 



T. 



Table Cloths, 195. 

Taffy, or Molasses Candy, 146. 

Tallow, to Render, 186. 

Tapioca. 26S. 

Tar Ointment. 255. 

Tea, 184. 

Tea. Beef. 271. 



Tea, Black, 273. 

Tea, Gingnr, 229. 

Teeth, Cleaning the, 224. 

Terrapins, C8. 

Tetter, Cure for the, 248. 

Tetter, Warts, &c. 254. 

Throat, Sore, 231. 26.'5. 



INDEX. 



309 



Tincture, Huxham's Bark, 262. 
Tincture of Vanilla, 107. 
Tin Kitchens, Roasting in, 14. 
Toast, Cream, 269. 
Toast, Milk, 269. 
Toast for the Sick, 269. 
Toast Water, 272. 
Tomato Catsup, 163, 
Tomato Figs, 145. 
Tomato Jelly, 4S. 
Tomato Omelet, 47. 
Tomato Sauce, 165. 
Tomatoes, to Bake, 48, 49. 
Tomatoes, to Broil, 49. 
Tomatoes, to Fricassee, 48. 
Tomatoes, to Fry, 47. 



Vanilla, 107. 

\eal, toBoil, 11. 

Veal Cutlets, 19. 

Veal, to Fry and Stew, 19. 

Veal Hash, 20. 

Veal's Liver, to Fry, 20. 

Veal and Lamb, to Roast, 14. 

Veal and Mutton Broth, 271 

Veal, Stuffed Leg of, 15. 

Vegetables, 44. 

Vegetable Soup, 84. 



Waffles, 74. 
Waffles, Quick, 74 
Waffles, Rice, 75. 
Wafer Cakes, 70. 
Walnut Catsup, 164. 
Walnut Cheese, 146. 
Walnuts, Black, to Pickle, 159. 
Walnuts, \Vhite, to Pickle, 158. 
Walnuts, English, 158. 
Warner's Cordial, 248. 
Warts, 254. 

Washing Calicoes, 194. 
Washington Cake, 115. 

27 



Tomatoes, Green, for Pies, 142. 
Tomatoes, Sliced, 49. 
Tomatoes, to Preserve, 134. 
Tomatoes, to Pickle, 160. 
Tomatoes, to Stew, 47. 
Tomatoes for Winter Use, 49. 
Tongue, to Boil, 10. 
Tongue and Brains, 19. 
Tongues, to Cure a Dozen, 173. 
Tooth-ache, 246. 
Trifle, 104. 
Turkey, to Boil, 10. 
Turkey, to Roast, 12. 
Turnips, 56. 
Twist Rolls, 68. 



V. 



Vegetables, to keep, in Winter 

57. 
Vermicelli, 23. 
Vinegar, to Make, 154. 
Vinegar, Raspberry, 152. 
Virginia Hoe Cake, 81. 
Virginia Pone, 80. 
Virginia Yellow Pickles, 159. 
Vials, to Clean, 220. 
Volatile Soap, 190. 



w. 



Washing Windows, 197. 
Washes, White or Colored, 197 
Walls, Papered, to clean, 225, 
Wash for Hearths, 215. 
Wash for Sore Ears, 245. 
Water, Apple, 272. 
Watermelon Rind, 131. 
Water, Filtering, .222. 
Water, to keep Cool in Summer, 

223. 
Water, to Purify, 223. 
Wax and Spermaceti, to take out 

of cloth, 217. 



310 



INDEX. 



Weather-proof, Cement, 220. 
Whey, Rennet, 271. 
Whey, Skim Curds, 105. 
Whey, Wine, 271. 
Whips, 104. 
White Sauce, 101. . 
White Beans, Dried, 34. 
White-wash, to Mix, 198. 
Whooping Cough, for, 233. 
Wines, Cordials, &c. 147. 
Wine, Blackberry, 149. 
Wine, Currant, 150. 



Wine, Elderberry, 150. 

Wine, Gooseberry, 149. 

Wine, Ginger, 151. 

Wine, MuUed, 272. 

Wine, Raspberry, 151 

Wine, Rennet, 106. 

Wine Sauce, 101. 

Wine Whey, 271. 

Woollens and Furs, to keep, 20 

Woollens, to Dye, 200, 201. 

Wounds and Cuts, 253. 

Worms, 246. 



Yeast, 62. 
Yeast, Corn. 63. 
Yeast, Dry, 64. 
Yeast, Milk, 65. 
Yeast, Potato, 64. 



Yellow, to Dye, 200, 201. 
Yellow Ochre-wash, 199. 
Yellow Pickles, 159. 
Yellow-wash, Chrome, 199. 



1 



THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 
REFERENCE DEPARTMENT 



This book is under no circumstances to be 
taken from the Building 



(unii 4ia 



