


B- 




iKj-i^O^K^ . C^ - LitXvv.-IX6 



_^ 



MRS. RUNDELL'S 



DOMESTIC COOKEEY 



FORMED LTOX 



PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY, 

AND ADAPTED TO THE ^{J"^^ / K> 

USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. 



^ii\} numer0us jniugtvalions. 



REVISED EDITIOX, WITH ADDITIOSS. 



FcOUTLEDGE,' WARNlTS, AND i^OUl\gPGE, 



K£\r YUEK: 5(3, WALKER STR 

18.59.1 \ 




Mrs.G A. scfitnltt, 
, Apr. 29,1^01. 

ADVERTISEMENT, 



;( 



^Oi)fl(o1^ 



As the following clirectlons wore intended for the eondi 
of the families of the Authoress's own daughters, and : 
the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good ligi 
with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxu 
such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expenditure of lai 
quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes 
keep up the price, and is no less injurious to those who ( 
than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Ma 
receipts are given ,for things, which being in daily use, 1 
mode of preparing them ma}' be supposed too well known 
require a place in a Cookery-book; yet how rarely do 
meet with fine melted butter, good toast and water, or w( 
made coffee ! She makes no apology for minuteness in so: 
articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does i 
write for professed cooks. This little work would have be 
a treasure to hfir.self \y.heA .she firsts^t put. in life, and s 
therefore hope?' '?t /may ji^)a'(>veu'sefu| to oth^^rs. In that e 
pectation it is given tA.tJiq ,"^11^10: and as she will recei 
from it no einolumeniJ.'sO'she trus'lis'-it' will escape witho 
censure. ; .; .«. ••• .«. ... ... . . 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS 



FOR TUB USE OF 



THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. 



In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who best acquit 
themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this 
line of conduct is not a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would 
maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. 

In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupa- 
tions stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when 
neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when 
ladies knew nothing heijond their own family concerns ; but, in the 
])resent day, there are many who know nothing ahoitt them. Each of 
these extremes should be avoided : but is there no way to unite in 
the female character cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? 
Happily there are still great numbers in every situation whose 
example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of 
ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the 
accounts of their house-steward ; and, by overlooking and wisely 
directing the expenditure of that part of their husband's income, 
which falls under their own immediate inspection, avoid the incon- 
veniences of embarrassed circumstances. How much more neces- 
sary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes 
press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy ! 
There ought to be a material difference in the degree of care which 
a person of a large and independent estate bestows on money con- 
cerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances : yet both 
may very commendably employ some portion of their time and 
thoughts on this subject. The custom of the times tends in some 
measure to abolish the distinctions of rank ; and the education 
given to j'oung people is nearly the same in all : but though the 
leisure of the hio-her may be well devoted to elegant accomplish- 
ments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, 
would better secure their own happiness and that of others con- 
nected with them. "We sometimes bring up children in a manner 
calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that 
which it is likely they ^vill actually possess : and it is in all cases 
worth the V\''hile of parents to consider whether the expectation or 
hope of raising their offspring above their own situation be well 
founded. 

A 2 



4 MISCELLiJfEOITS OBSEKYATIONS. 

The cultivation of the understanding: and disposition, however, 
not lu've alluded to ; for a judicious improvement of both, united 
llrm and early-taujrht religious principles, would enable the ha])' 
])ossessor of these advanta^-es to act well on all occasions : nor wi' 
youn.iX ladies iind domestic knowledi-e a burden, or inconsisi- 
with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated ; 
a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be ti: 
some to a lu'althy child, the faidt must be traced to habits whir 
iVom many causes, are not at present favourable to the future e »: 
duct of women. It frequently happens, that before impressions 
(luty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences ; ar 
it ever after takes the lead ; thus, what should be only the emb 
lishmcnt, becomes the main business of life. There is no opport! 
nity of attaining a knowledge of family management at school ; ar 
during vacation, all subjects that might interfere with amusemii 
are avoided. 

When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, r 
turns to reside at her father's house after completing her educati . 
her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pli 
sures, persuade her at once that she Avas born to be the ornament ■ 
fashionable circles, rather than to stoop (as slie would conceive i 
to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that meai 
she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort ( 
her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, an 
especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost alwa:, 
anxious to give their children such advantages of education . 
themselves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be produf i 
tive of the happiness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by th 
elit-cts, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught hf 
not produced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and re 
spect to the authors of licr being. Were a young woman brought t 
relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupatioi 
before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure presente 
by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soo: 
make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if re 
straint did not give to the latter additional relish. 

If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find . 
love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. T 
attend to the nursing, and at lead earl;/ instruction of children 
and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness ; t( 
pre>.ide over the family and regulate the income allotted to it 
maintenance ; to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatiguec 
by intercourse with a jarring world ; to be his enlightened com- 
panion and the chosen friend of his heart ; these, these are woman': 
duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to t 
man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring 
his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one 
may truly say, " Happy the man who can call her his wife. Blessed 
are^the children who call her mother." 

A\ hen we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abili- 
ties in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are we not 
ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being 



i\ 



MISCELLAXEOtlS OBSERTATIO^'S. 5 

7ho placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to 
vastc the talents committed to her charge. ^ 

AYhen it is thus evident that the highest intellectual attainments 
may find exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daughter, 
the wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one 
urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ ? 
It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life arewithin 
the reach of humbler abilities, and that sJic wdiose chief aim 
is to fulfil them, vrill rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United 
with, and perhaps crowning all the virtucsof the female character, 
is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its 
ittention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often 
scarcely less essential tiian the greater. 

Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a 
ady's concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectabi- 
ity of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those who 
wartlike their hospitality. 

The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the 
nultiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing, and the neat 
)leasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who 
^resides. Too much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncom- 
non : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty 
)r penuriousness to be genteel ; and the former, if constantly given, 
nay endanger the circumstances of those wdio are not affluent. 

Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than for- 
nerlj', when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now 
osts ; consequently those ^Yhose fortunes are not great, and who 
vish to make a genteel appearance, without extravagance, regulate 
heir table accordinglj^. 

Perhaps there are few^ incidents in which the respectability of a 
nan is more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which he 
iccidentally may bring liome a visitor. Every one is to live as he 
an aftbrd, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the 
utertainments of the higher classes ; but, if two or three dishes are 
veil served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small 
ideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the ex- 
)ectationof the husband and friend vnll be gratitied, because no 
rregularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social inter- 
ourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all 
ituations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the 
tation, than to the fortune of the entertaitier and to the number 
ud rank of those invited. 

The manner of carving is now not only a very necessary branch 
f information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but 
riakes a considerable difference in the consumption of a famih^ ; 
-ud though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this 
luowledge apparently of less consequence, j^et she must at times 
?el the deficiency ; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an 
ttainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. 

Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable, that 
)efqre the end of this century, great attention to guests may be 

ain the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some 



{-... 



6 MISCELLAKEOUS OBSKRVATIO^'S. 

people hoirsrle meat so mucli, as not to be able to lielp Lalf-a-cl 
jHTsons dc'ceutly from a large tongue, or a sirloiu of beef ; and 
dish goes away With the appearance of having been gnawed by dog 
if the daughters of the family were to take the head of the tal. - 
under the direction of their mother, they Avould fulfil its duti*^ 
witli grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in oth 
dcincstie alfairs gradually 'tits them for their own future house 
Habit alone can make good carvers; but some principal directio: 
arc hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. 

The mistress of a family should always remember that the wc 
l;ire and good management of the house depend on the eye of tl 
-.ipi rior ; and consequently that nothing is too triiiing for h 
.•lice, whereby waste may be avoided; and this attention is 

ore importance now that the price of every necessary of life is 
. reatly increased. 

J t a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to think 
f anvil y management, let her not upon that account fear that si 
cai:n t attain it : she may consult others who are more experience 
and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the sever 
articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it coi 
sists of, the proper prices to pay, &c., dec. 

A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payrae] 
should be taken in writing; likewise an estimate of the suppose 
amount of each article of expense ; and those who are early accu 
tomed to calculations on domestic articles, will acquire so accura 
a kno-^'lcdgc of what their establishment requires, as will gi- 
them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, wit^ 
out acquiring the character of meanness. ^ 

Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful, as sre 
readiness at figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, an^ n 
the smallest article omitted to be entered ; and if halanced evei 
wf ek and month, <^- • the income and outgoings will be ascertaine 
with facility, and i r proportions to each other be duly observe 
>ome people ti.\- on stated sums to be appropriated to each diiFere; 
..rticle, and keep the money in separate purses; as bouse, clothf 
lucket, education of children, &c. "Whichever way accounts 1 
( ntered, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered t 
]Many ^yomen are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their hu 
band's income ; and others are only made acquainted with it, whc 
^'»me speculative project, or proiitable transaction, leads them 
1 lake a false estimate of what can be afibrded; and it too oftc 
:.ai)pens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squaud^ 
money in ways that they would even wish to forget : whereas raai 
I ; icre should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, and sim 
Jurity of pursuits, which w^ould secure that happiness it wt 
intended to bestow. 

There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it 
a fair inference there would be few extravagant ones, were the 
consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern the mutu 
interest of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer 
tiiese pages, many families have been reduced to poverty by th 
want of openness in the man on the subject of his aftairs; an^ 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 7 

liou,i,^li on these occasions the women were blamed, it has atter- 
^'j; v^arcls appeared, that they never were allowed to inquire, or snf- 
*cred to reason upon what sometimes seemed to them imprudent. 

Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to the 
)ropriety of female management, as to the knowledge and activity 
»f the father. 

The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook, that her 
ast weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered ; 
-to whicn she replied : — " Such is the sum I have allotted to house- 
ceeping ; sh.ould it be exceeded one week, the next must pay for it. 
Che General will have no public day this week." The fault was 
lover repeated. 

March's '' Family Book-keeper " is a very useful work, and saves 
nuch trouble ; the various articles of expense being printed, w' 
I column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amru' 
)f expenditure on each, and the total sum may be known. 

Heady-money should be paid for all such things as come not into 
veekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. The best 
)laces for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a 
liscount of live per cent, is allovN'-ed for ready-money in London and 
)ther large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. 
Jnder the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops ; but it is 
jafest to deal with people of established credit, v/ho do not dispose 
)f goods by underselling. 

To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, 
Desides that a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles 
lever bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and 
:ailure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of 
v'arious articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many 
families from the highest to the lowest. 

Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will 
be knov/n with ease ; for it is delay of payment that occasions con- 
["usion. A good common-place book shoul '; .always at hand, in 
vvhich to enter such hints of useful knowlei.g^^,'nnd other observa- 
tions, as are given by sensible experienced people. Want of atten- 
:ion to what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be worth 
hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on neces- 
sary subjects among those who are not backward in frivolous 
3nes. 

It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and 
rroodncss of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as 
^ well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted 
'^r^•ith the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be 
able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when they will 
answer as v/ell for others of the same kind, but which are more 
costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase as bar- 
gains what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this 
lerror avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is 
|iiot unusual among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of 
goods, by assurance that they are advancing in price ; and many 
who supply fancy articles are' so successful in persuasion, that pur- 
chasers not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, 



8 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 

even to their future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping 
and, bein? in constant consumption, should be hxid in according!}- 
such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these more hereafter. 

To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted ; for people ought 
to form their conduct on their circumstances, but it is presumed 
that a judicious arrangement according to them will be found 
equally advantageous to all. The minutia? of management must bo 
regulated by every one's fortune and rank ; and some ladies, not 
deficient in cither, charge themselves -with giving out, once in a 
month, to a sui)eriutending servant, such quantities of household 
articles, as by observation and calculation they know to be suffi- 
cient, reserving for their own key the largo stock of things usually 
laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be 
several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase 
of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will be 
respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested 
in the ignorance of their employers ; and if they are, their services 
will not compensate for want of honesty. 

When young ladies marrj", they frequentlj'' continue their own 
maids in the capacity of house-keepers ; who, as they may be more 
attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable ser- 
vants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be 
as useful as the cookery ; and it is recommended to be strictly ob- 
servant of both, which in the course of time will make them familiar 
in the practice. 

It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the 
good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mis- 
tress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a 
strict account. 

Some part of every person's fortune should be devoted to charity; 
by which " a pious woman will build up her house before God, 
while she that is foolish {i.e. lends nothing to the Lord), pulls it 
down with her hands." No one can complain of the want of gifts 
to the poor in this land : but there is a mode of relief which would 
add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from super- 
Huitv, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense 
would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for 
preparing the above are given. 

By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more 
regular, and mucli time is saved. If orders be given soon in the 
morning, there will be more time to execute them ; and servants by 
doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will 
be necessary. 

It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced, 
and much time saved, if everything be kept in its proper place, ap- 
plied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the acci- 
dent will allow, as soon as broken. 

If the economy of time was duly considered, the useful afiairs 
transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of 
enpployment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done 
without hurry or fatigue ; and it would be a most pleasant retro- 
spect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the 



MISCELLANEOrS OCSERYATIONS. 9 

valuable acquirements made, and the good actions performed by an 
active woman. 

If the subject of servants be thouglit ill-timed in a book npon 
family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that 
the regularity and good management of the heads will be insufR- 
cient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. _ It be- 
hoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his 
service ; to be very minute in investigating the character he re- 
ceives, and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to 
others. "Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapaci- 
tated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It 
may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a 
milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, wall be laid to 
the charge of that master or mistress who knowing, or having w^ell • 
founded suspicions of any such faults, is prevailed upon by false 
pity or entreaty, to slide him into another place. There are, how- 
ever, some who are unfortunatelj' capricious, and often refuse to 
give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves 
their service : but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, ser- 
vants having no inheritance, and depending ontheir fair name for 
employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage 
the good servant, are actions due to society at large ; and such as 
are honest, frugal and attentive to their duties should be liberally 
rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with, 
zcnl to acquit themselves. 

It may be but proper to observe that a retributive justice usually 
marks persons in that station sooner or later even in this world. 
Tlie extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the in- 
dustry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially 
depends. Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come home 
when they have children of their own ; and sometimes much sooner. 
They will see their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their 
offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example 
and instruction given by themselves. 

It was the observation of a very sensible and experienced woman, 
that she could always read the fate of her servants who married ; 
those who had been faithful and industrious in her service, con- 
tinued their good habits in their own families, and became respect- 
able members of the community : those who were the contrary, never 
were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. 

A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, 
and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent in- 
convenience, especially in the country. 

A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even if the 
money be paid at the time of purchase ; and, to avoid mistakes, let 
the goods be compared w^th these when lirst brought home. 

Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one's honesty, and 
perliaps mistakes have been unintentional, yet it is prudent to 
weigh meat, sugars, &c., when brought in, and compare wdth the 
charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with 
tlie meat, and the cook to lile these checks, to be examined when 
the weekly bill shall be delivered. 



10 MISCELLANEOUS OBSEKVATIOXS. 

Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is compaiiy, 
if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar 
order daily. 

All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness : sugars of 
ditlcreut qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and per- 
fectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in verj^^ small bottles close 
corked ; not more tban will be used m four or iive weeks should be 
i)ounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole 
in gravies, &c. 

Where luncheons or suppers are served (and in every house some 
preparation is necessary for accidental visitors) care should be taken 
to have such things in readiness as arc proper for either, and a list 
of several will be subjoined, a change of which maj^ be agreeable, 
and if duly managed will be attended with little expense and much 
cop.venience. 

A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of 
bread, which when retui'ned will show the niimber to be paid for ; 
as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. 

Those who are served with brewer's beer, or any other articles 
not paid for weekly, or on delivery, should keep a book for entering 
t!ie dates ; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but 
will show the whole year's consumption at one view. 

An inventory of furniture, linen, and China, should be kept, and 
the things examined bj' it twice a year, or oftencr, if there be a 
change of servants; into each of whose care the articles used by 
him or her, should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with 
plate. Tickets of parchment, with the family name, numbered, 
and specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each 
feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house- 
cloths, are often deficient : these accidents might be obviated, if an 
article at the head of every list required the former should be pro- 
duced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though 
all the others should be worn out. The inducement to take care of 
glass is in some measure removed, by the increased price given for 
old flint glass. — Those who wish for tritle dishes, butter-stands, 
&c., at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, 
of which there is a great variety that look extremely well, if not 
placed near the more beautiful articles. 

The price of starch depends upon that of flour ; the best will 
Iceep good in a dry warm room for some years ; therefore when 
bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. 

SuGAi5s being an article of considerable expense in all families, 
the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not 
go so far as that more refined ; and there is difference even in thf 
degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, 
lieavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gra,vell^ 
look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East Indi . 
sugars are hner for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit 
for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if 
good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it 
with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. 

Candles made in cool weather are best ; and when their price, 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 11 

and that of soap, which rise and fall tog-ether, is likely to be higher, 
it will be prudent to lay in the stock of both. Tb.is information the 
chandler can always give ; they are better for keeping eight or ten 
ir.onths, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the 
cool ; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buy- 
ing, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the 
family. 

Paper improves by keeping, and if bought by half or whole reams 
will be much cheaper than if purchased by the quire. It is princi- 
pally made from rags, of which there is some scarcity, W'hich miglit 
be ooviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to 
keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. 

Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of 
managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small 
family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by 
their irregularity ; and many families, from a v/aut of method, 
have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To 
avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as econo- 
mical : — 

Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as 
much waste may thereby be avoided, viz.— 

Yegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded.— 
Meat in a cold dry place. — Sugar and sweetmeats require a dry 
place ; so does salt. — Candles cold, but not damp. — Dried meats, 
hams, &c. the same.— Rice and ail sorts of seeds for puddings, &c. 
should be closely covered to preserve from insects. 

Bread is so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be 
guarded against ; and having it cut in the room will tend much to 
prevent it. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans 
and covers keep it best. 

Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry to prevent a musty 
taste. 

Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. 

Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used 
when herbs are ordered ; but with discretion, as they are very 
pungent. 

The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and 
lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ; and they should 
be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not 
scoured. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should 
''-'.e melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs 
■iid boiler ; and when the lather becomes weak, add more. The 
Sw improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near 
*/alf in quantity ; and though something dearer than, the hard, rc- 
c Hces the price of washing considerably. 

^'Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the 
night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less 
friction. 

Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make 
a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or 
three weeks ; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break. 



12 MISCELLANEOUS OUSEHVATIONS. 

Put it on a sliclf, IcaviiiJ? a space between, and let it grow hard 
gradually. Tims, it Avill save a full third in tlie consumption. 

ISomc of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be 
pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be halved, and 
when squeezed, the pulp cutout, and the outsides dried for grating. 
If for boiling in any liquid, the iirst way is best. AVhcn these 
fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared 
as above directed, especially by those who live in the conntij', 
where they cannot always be had ; and they are perpetually wunted 
in cookery. 

AVlien whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, con- 
trive to have pudding, custard, &c. to employ the yolks also. Should 
you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little 
Avater, and put th.em in a cool place, or they will be hardened and 
useless. It was jx mistake of old, to tliink that the whites made 
cakes and puddings lieavy ; on the contrary, if beaten long and 
separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advan- 
tage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in 
cream, &c. 

If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be 
charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to 
have them fresh done when the least defect appears, and never to 
put by any soup, gravy, &c. in them, or any metal utensil ; stone 
and earthen vessels should be provided for those purposes, as like- 
wise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to 
put by cold meat. 

Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes Fen- 
ders, and tin linings of tiowcr-pots, &c., should be painted every 
3"car or two. 

Vegetables soon sour and corrode metals, and glazed red ware, by 
which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of 
several p-entlcmen was occasioned by the cook sending a ragout to 
table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel 
badly tinned. 

A^incgar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead 
or arsenic. 

To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and 
wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in ths 
sun ; renew the i)rocess once or twice. 

The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone 
jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the vessel into a saucepan 
of water, called a water-bath. 

If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c., be suffered to boil over, 
the strength is lost. 

The cook should bo encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders ; 
for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift, without dispersing 
the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. 

Small coal wetted makes the strongest tire for the back, but must 
remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet, give a great 
degree of lieat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, 
and ovens. 



DIllECTIONS rOE CAEYIXG. 13 

The cook should be charg-ed to take care of jelly-baj^s, tapes for 
the collared thint^s, &c., which if not perfectly scalded, and kept 
dry, orive an unpleasant flavour when next used. 

Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will crack it. 

In the following-, and indeed all other receipts, though the quan- 
tities rnay be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be 
left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The diiierent 
tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, 
garlic, butter, &c., which can never be ordered by general rules ; 
and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her 
employer's, not all the ingredients which nature and art can furnish, 
will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should 
be at hand, and she must proportion them until the true zest be 
obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes 
served at the same time.^ 

Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in this little 
work ; and where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being 
directed in stufungs, the cook must use butter instead ; and where 
meat gravies (or stock, as they are called), are ordered, those made 
of fish must be adopted. 



DIRECTIOXS FOR CAEVING. 

The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling 
size and flue edge. Strength is less required than address, in the 
manner of using it: and to facilitate this, the cook shall give orders 
to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase joints 
of mutton, lamb, and veal (such as neck, breast, and loin), which 
may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to tlie adjoining 
bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should 
be too thick, a small slice may be taken off* between every two 
bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, 
and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth ; 
observing to let the knife pass down to the bone "in the mutton and 
beef joints. 

The dish should not be too far off the carver ; as it gives an awk- 
ward appearance, and makes the task more difiicult. Attention is 
to be paid to help every one to a part of such articles as are con- 
sidered the best. 

In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes ; which in cod 
and very fresh salmon are large, and contribute much to the beauty 
of its appearance. A fish-knife, not being sharp, divides it best on 
this account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. 
The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod 
and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be at- 
tended to accordingly. 

In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, for a large 
party, if you cut the slices down from juaiou to pinion, without 
making wings, there will be mere prime pieces. 



14 



DIRECTIONS FOE CAllYIXG. 




A Cod's Head.— Fish in general requires very little carving, the 
fleshy parts being- those principally esteemed. A cod's head and 

shoulders, -^'hen in season, and 
properly boiled, is a very 
genteel and handsome dish. 
^Vhen cut, it should be done 
with a hsh-trowel, and the 
parts, about the back-bone on 
the shoulders are tlie most 
lirm and the best. Take off 
a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction a, b, c, d, 
putting in the spoon at «, c, and with each slice of lish gi^e a 
piece of the sound, which lies underneath the back-bone and lines 
it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker- coloured than 
the body of the fish itself. About the head are many delicate 
parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. _ The jelly part lies 
about the jawbones, and the firm parts within the head. Some 
are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may 
be got by putting a spoon into the mouth. 

Aitch-bone of Beef. — Cut oft' a slice an inch thick all the 
length from a to h, and then help. The soft fat, which resembles m.ar- 
row, lies at the back of the boi:e, below c : the firm fat must be cut 




in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask 
which is preferred, as tastes diiFer. The skewer that keeps the 
meat properly together when boiling is here shown at a. This 
should be drawn out before it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to 
leave the skewer in, put a silver one. 
Sirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, or by cutting 

into the middle. It is usual 
to inquire whether the outside 
or inside is preferred. For the 
outside, the slice should be cut 
down to the bones r and tlic 
same with every following help- 
ing. Slice the inside likewise, 
and give with each piece some of 
the fat. 

The inside done as follows 
cats excellently : — Have ready 




DIRECTIOXM FOR CATIVIXG. 



15 



some fine shalot vinegar boiling- hot ; minoo the meat large, and a 
good deal of fat ; sprinkle it with salt, and pour the shalot vinegar 
and the gravy on it. Help with a spoon, as quickly as possible on 
hot plates. 

Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as iillet of 
veal. It should be kept even all over. 

When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but cut it smooth. 
A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as 
directed for the Edge-boue. 

Fillet of Veal. — In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask 
whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. 
The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing ; 
which makes the fillet verj^ solid. It should be cut thin and very 
smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap v/hieh completely covers it ; 
you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as' likewise of 
JFat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is 
sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the carver. 

Breast of Veal.— One part (v/hich is called the ^ brisket) is 
thickesi, and has gristles ; put your knife about four inches from 
the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs 
from the brisket. 

Calf's Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if rrojcrly 
managed. Cut slices 
from a to b, letting 
the knife go close to 
the bone. In the 
fleshy part, at the 
neck end c, there lies 
the throat sweet- 
bread, which you 
should help a slice of 
from c to d with tlie 
other part. Many like the eye; which you must cut out with the 
point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken 
off, there will be found some iino lean. Under the head is the 
palate, which is reckoned a nicety ; the lady of the house should be 
acquainted Avith all things that are thought so, that she may dis- 
tribute them among her guests. 

Shoulder of Mutton.— 
This is a very good joint, and ^' 

by many preferred to the leg ; 
it being very full of gravy, if 
properly_ roasted, and produces 
many nice bits. The figure 
represents it as laid in the 
dish with its back uppermost. 
When it is first cut, it should 

be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of «, 5, and the knife 
should be passed deep to the bone. 

The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and it is to be 
cut out in thin slices in the direction of e tof. If many are at table, 
and the hollow part cut in the line «, 6, is eaten, some very good 





16 



DIRECTIONS rOR C/ YlXa. 




nnd delicate slices maybe cut out on eich side the ridge of ,f 
hlade-boiie, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dot .' 
lines, is that in the direction of which the edge or ridge of the bla 
bone lies, ami cannot be cut across. 

Leg of Mutton. — A leg of wether mutton (which is the best 
flavoured) may be known by a round lump of fat at the edge of the 

broadest part. The best 
part is in the midway, at 
h, between the knuckle 
and farther end. Begin 
to help here, by cutting 
thin deep slices to c. If 
the outside is not fat 
enough, help some from 
the side of the broad end 
in slices from e to/. This 
part is the most juicy; 
but many prefer the knuckle, which, in line mutton, will be very 
tender though dry. There are very tine slices on the back of 
the leg ; turn it up, and cut the broad end ; not in the direction you 
did the other side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take 
hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh- 
bone at d\ then pass the knife under the cramp- bone on the direc- 
tion, f/, g. 

A Fore Quarter of Lamb.— Separate the shoulder from the 
scoven (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the knife under in 
tlic direction of «, b, c, d\ keeping it towards you horizontally, to 

prevent cutting the meat 
too much off the bones. 
If grass-lamb, the shoul- 
der being large, put it into 
another dish. Squeeze 
the juice of half a lemon 
on the other part, and 
sprinkle a little salt and 
pepper. Then separate 
the gristly part from the 
ribs in the lino c, c ; and lielp either from that, or from the ribs, 
as may be chosen. 
Haunch of Venison.— Cut down to the bone in the line a, h, c , 

in the tigure, to let 
out the gravy : then 
turn the broad end 
of the haunch to- 
wards you, put in 
the knife at b, "nd 
cut as deep as y-u 
can to the end of tlie 
haunch d ; then help 
in thin slices, observ- 
ing to give some fat to each person. Tlicro is more fat (which is a 
favourite part) on the Ijft side of c and d than on the other ; and 





DIREC -^-OXS FOR CAEVIXG. 



17 




those who help must take care to proportion it, as likewise the gravy, 
according- to the number of the company. 

Haunch, of Mutton is the Ic^ and part of the loin, cnt so as to 
resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helped at table in the same 
manner. 

Saddle of Mutton.— Cut long thin slices from the tail to the 
end, beginnino- close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice 
may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. 

Ham may be cut three ways ; the common method is, to 
begin in the middle, by long- 
slices from a to 5, from the 
centre through the thick fat. 
This brings _to_ the prime at 
first ; which is likewise accom- 
plished by cutting a small 
round hole on the top of the 
ham, as at c, and with a sharp 
knife enlarging that by cut- 
ting successive thin circles ; this preserves the gravy and keeps 
the meat moist. 

The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end, and 
proceed onwards. 

Ham that is used for pics, &c. should be cut from the under side, 
first taking off a thick slice. 

Sucking Pig. — The cook usually divides the body' before 
it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and 
ears. 

The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the carcase on one 
side, and then the leg accord- 
ing to the direction given by the 
dotted line a, h, c. The ribs are 
then to be divided into about 
two helpings ; and an ear or jaw 
presented with them, and plenty 
of sauce. The joints may either 
be divided into two each, or 
pieces may be cut from them. 
The ribs are reckoned the jfinest part 
the neck end, between the shoulders. 

Goose. — Cut off the apron in the circular line a, h, c ; and pour 
into the body a glass of 
port wine ; and a large 
tea-spoonful of mustard, 
first mixed at the side- 
board. Turn the neck end of / f ^ 
the goose towards you, and ' - ~ 
cut 't':e whole breast in 
long olices from one wing 
to another ; but only re- 
move them as you help each 

large as to require the legs likewise. This v/ay gives more 
prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg, by put-- 

B 




but some people prefer 




person, unloss tlie company is so 



18 DlEl•CTIO^'S roil carting. 

ling: the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to 
the body, and havinr^ passed the hnifc at d, turn the leg back, 
and if a yonug bird it will easily separate. To take off the wing, 
put yonr fork into tlie small end of the pinion, and press it close to 
the body ; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking 
it down in the direction d, c. jS'othing but practice will enable 
people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and 
wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often 
necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very 
large. There are two side bones by the wing, which may be cut 
off, as likewise the back and lower side-bones \ but the best pieces 
are the breast, and the thighs after being divided from the drum- 
sticks. 

Hare. — The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the 
knife under the shoulder at a, and so cut all the way down to the 
rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, h. Do the same 

on the other side, so 
that the whole hare will 
be divided into three 
parts. Cut the back 
into four, which with 
the legs is the part most 
esteemed. The shoul- 
der must be cut oft* in 
a circular line, as c, d, 
a ; lay the pieces neatly 
on the dish as you cut 
them, and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy 
to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare 
is 3"oung ; if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong 
arm ; but put the knife betAveen the leg and back, and give it a 
little turn inwards at the joint, which you must endeavour to hit, 
and not to break by force. "When both legs are taken off, there 
is a fine collop on each side the back, then divide the back into 
as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which 
are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman's pieces. 
When every one is helped, cut off the head, put your knife be- 
tween the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which v/ill enable 
you to lay the ^ upper ilat on your plate : then put the point 
of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into tAvo. 
The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like 
them. 

Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare ; cutting the 
back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime. 

A Fowl. — A boiled fowl's legs are bent inwards, and tucked 
into the belly; but before it is served, the skewers are to be re- 
inoved. Lay the fowl on your plate, and place the joints, as cut oft', 
on the dish. Take the wing oft' in the direction of a to 6, only 
dividing the joint with your knife, and then with your fork lift up 
the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles 
will separate in a more complete form than if cut. blip the knife 




IIIREGTIOXS rOR CAKYIXG. 



19 




NeckJIone 



between the leg and body, and cut to the bone; then with the fork 
turn the \q% back, and the joint vvill give way if the bird is not old. 
When the four quarters are thus removed, take off the merrj-- 
tho u gilt from rt and the neck-bones; these last by putting in the 
knife at c, and pressing it 
under the long broad part a..^,.!^s-^a 

of the bone in the line c, b, 
then lift it up, and break 
it off from the part that 
sticks to the breast. The 
next thing is, to divide the 
breast from the carcase, by 
cutting through the tender 
ribs close to the breast right 
down to the tail. Then lay 
the back upwards, put your 
knife into the bone half-way 
from the neck to the rump, 
and on raising the lower end 
it will separate readily. Turn 
the rump from you, and very 
neatly take off" the two sides- 
men, and the whole will be 

done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on 
the dish ; and care should be taken that what is left goes pro- 
perly from table. The breast and wings are looked upon as the 
best parts, but the legs are most juicy in young fowls. After 
all, more advantage wdll be gained by observing those wdio carve 
well, antl a little practice, than by any written directions 
whatever. 

A Pheasant. — The bird in the annexed engraving is as trussed 
for the spit, with its head under one of 
its wings. "When the skewers are taken 
out, and the bird served, the following is the 
way to carve it : — 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; 
slice it down in the lines a, h; take off the . 
leg on one side in the dotted line h, d ; then 
cut off the Aving on the same side, in the line 
r, (I. Separate the leg and wing on the other 
side, and then cut off the slices of breast you 
divided before. Be careful how you take oft* 
the wings, for if you should cut too near 
the neck, as at //, you will bit on the neck- 
bone, from which the wing must be sepa- 
rated. Cut off the merrythought in the line 

/, fj, by passing the knife under it towards the ncr.k. Cut 
llio other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merry- 
thought are the most esteemed ; bat the leg has a higher 
flavour. 

Partridge.— The partridge is here represented as just taken 
E 2 




20 



DIRECTIONS FOR CARTIXG. 




froni the spit ; but before it is served up, the skewers must be 
Avithdrawn. It is cut up in the same man- 
ner as a fowl. The wing's must be taken off 
in the lines a, h, and the merrythought in 
the line c, d. The prime parts of a par- 
tridpe arc the wing's, breast, and merry- 
thought. But the bird being small, the two 
latter arc not often divided. The wing is 
considered as the best, and the tip of it reck- 
oned the most delicate morsel of the whole. 
Pigeons. — Cut them in half, either from top to bottom or across. 
The lower part is generally thought the best : but the fairest 

way is to cut from the 
neck to a, ratherthan from 
c to h, by a, which is the 
most fashionable. The 
ligure represents the back 
of the pigeon; and the di- 
rection of the knife is in 
the line c, h, by «, if done 
the last way. 




KOASTING ArrAUATlS. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



FISH. 

To Choose Fish. 



TURBOT, if good, slioiild be thick, and tlic belly of a yellow- 
ish white ; if of a bluish cast or thin, they are bad. They are in 
season the greatest part of the summer. 

!^ Salmon.— If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particu- 
larly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just 
killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives 
great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is 
more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that 
caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and even preferred by 
some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. 

Cod.— The gills should be very red : the fish should be very 
thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the ej'cs fresh. 
AV^hen flabby they are not good. They are in season from the 
beginning of December till the end of April. 

Skate. — If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh 
they eat tough, but must not be kept abov^e two days. 

Herrings. — If good, their gills are of a fine red and the^ 
eyes bright ; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stift" 
and firm. 

Soles. — If good thc.y are thick, and the belly is of a cream 
colour : if this is of a bluish cast and flabby, they are not fresh. 
They are in the market almost the m hole year, but are in the 
highest perfection about midsummer. 

Whitings. — The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked 
to, as in herrings ; they are in high season during the first three 
months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. 

Mackerel.— Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, 
and July. They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep 
worse than any other. 

Pike. — For freshness observe the above marks. The best are 
taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted 
to stuffing and sauce. 

Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get 
wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to pre- 
vent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other 
fish. 

Tench. — They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should 
be killed and dressed as soon as caught. When they are to be 
bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the 



22 TO cnoosE risH. 

eyes bright, and tlie body stiff. The tench has a sHmy matter 
about it, the clearness and brightness of \^hich show freshness. 
The season is July, August and September. 

Perch. — Take the general rules given to distinguish the fresli- 
ness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. 

Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have 
a refreshing- smell like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in 
the Thames and some other large rivers. 

MiiUets. — The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and thft 
red to the grey. They should be xcry firm. Their season is 
August. 

Gudgeons. — They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. 
They are taken in running streams ; come in about midsummer, 
and are to be had for five or six months. 

Esls. — There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than 
of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so-called from the briglit 
colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold 
at Billingsgate are very bad ; those taken in great floods are gene- 
rall3' good, but in ponds they have usuallj- a strong rank flavour. 
Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. 

Lobsters. — If they have not been long taken, the claws will 
have a strong motion when you put your finger on the e3'es and 
press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil 
them at home. When you buy them ready boiled, try whether 
their tails are stiff, and pidl up v»ith a spring ; otherwise that part 
will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back 

})art of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and 
lard ; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The 
male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh 
is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. 

Crabs. — The heaviest are best, and those of a middling size are 
sweetest. If light they are watery ; when in perfection the joints 
of the legs are stiff and the body has a very agreeable smell. The 
eyes look dead and loose when stale. 

' Prawns and Shrimps. — TMien fresh they have a sweet fla- 
vour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright. — Shrimps are of 
the prawn kind, and may be judged by the sajne rules. 

Oysters. — There are several kinds ; the l^yfleet, Colchester, 
and Milford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, 
being white and fat ; but others may be made to possess both 
these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive and 
strong the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as soon 
as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock 03'ster 
is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten ravr. 

Flounders. — They should be thick, firm, and have their eyea 
bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both 
sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They arc in 
season from January to March, and from July to September. 

Sprats. — Choose hy the same rules as herrings. 

Observations on Dressing Fish. — If the fishmonger docs 
not clean it, fish is seldom very nicel3^ done ; bat those in great 



TO CHOOSE FISH. 23 

towns wash it beyond what is necessary for cleaning, and by per- 
petual watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to be 
t)oiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water 
to give firmness, but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock are far better 
if a little salted, and kept a day ; and if not very hot weather, they 
will be good two days. 

Those who knovr how to purchase fish, may, by taking more at 
a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap ; and such 
kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt 
and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, 
may then be bought with advantage. 

Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste, to take ofl^ 
which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned ; 
or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then dry and 
dress it. 

The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to 
do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part 
is done. 

Crimp fish should be put into boiling water ; and when it boils 
up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer 
it a few minutes. 

The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it 
be ready ; it will leave the bone when it is. It should then be ini- 
mediatel}^ taken out of the water, or it will soon be woolly. The 
fish-plate should be set crosswise over the kettle, to keep hot 
for serving ; and a clean cloth to cover the fish to prevent it losing 
its colom\ 

Small fish nicely fried, covered with eggs and crumbs, make a 
dish far more elegant than if served plain. Great attention should 
be paid to garnishing fish: use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and 
lemon. 

When AT ell done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended 
to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed 
on the dish, so that the lad}^ may see them, and help a part to 
every one. 

If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a nice soft 
cloth after it is well cleaned and washed. When perfectly dry, 
wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of 
bread over it ; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the 
fish -sA-ill look much better ; then, having a thick-bottomed frying- 
pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiliug 
hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry middlinglj^ quick, till the 
colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done 
enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook 
should draw the pan to the side of the fii-e ; carefully take it up, 
and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept 
for that purpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain ; and 
if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive 
the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs 
appear distinct ; the fish being free from all grease. The same 
di'ippij^g, with a little frcsli, will serve a second time. Butter gives 



24 TO CHOOSE FISH. 

a bad colour ; oil fries of the finest colour for those who will allow 
the expense, 

G-arnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, 
Vhich must be thus done : "When washed and picked, throw it 
again into clean water ; wlien the lard or dripping boils, throw the 
parsle}^ into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will 
be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice ; this may 
be done after the fish is fried. 

If fisli is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on 
a gridiron that is very clean ; which, when hot, should be rubbed 
with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be 
broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste sniokj^ ; and not 
too near, that it may not be scorched. 

TUR-BOT.— To Keep Turbot.— If necessary, turbot will 
keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at 
first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold 
place. 

To Boil Turbot. — The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, 
and in the nicest order. Set the fi-h in cold m ater sufficient to 
cover it completel}', throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar 
into it, and let it gradually boil : be very careful that there fall 
no blacks ; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the 
colour. 

Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, 
and horse-radish. 

The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy butter, and 
plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. 

SALIvION.— To Boil Salmon.— Clean it carefull3% boil it 
gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the 
water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone, it is very un- 
wliolesome. Serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce. 

To Broil Salmon. — Cut slices an inch thick, and season with 
pepper and salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well 
buttered ; twist the' ends of the paper, and broil the slices over 
a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy 
sauce. 

To Pot Salmon. — Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do 
not wash it ; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and 
drained from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole 
pepper : lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it 
over with butter, and bake it ; when well done, drain it from the 
gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with 
clarified butter. 

In this manner you may do any firm fish. 

To Dry Salmon. — Cut the fish down, take out the inside and 
roe. Hub the whole Avith common salt after scaling it ; let it hang 
twenty-four hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt- 
petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and 
two ounces of coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed well, into the 
salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it 
well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be 



SAL5I0X— COD. 25 

fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining?. ^ Hang it eitlier in a 
wood chimnej^ or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two small 
sticks. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed 
through, with egg sauce and mashed potatoes ; or it may be boiled, 
especially the bit next the head. 

An excellent Dish of Dried Salmon.— Pull some into 
flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large ; put 
both into half a pint of thin cream , and two or three ounces of butter 
rubbed witli a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim it and stir till boiling 
liot ; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a 
dish, and pour the above into it. 

To Pickle Salmon.— Boil as before directed, take the fish 
out, and boil the liquor Mith bay leaves, peppercorns, and salt ; add 
vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. 

Another way.— After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, 
and divide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to 
fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts 
put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay leaves, six 
blades of mace, and a c[uarter of an ounce of black pepper. Whoa 
the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean clotli, 
then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, 
and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly 
flavoured with tiie vinegar and salt, add more, and boil quick 
three Cjuarters of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fisli in 
something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully 
cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained 
from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. 

Salmon Collared.— Split such a part of the fish as may be 
sufiicient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having 
mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace and Jamaica pepper, in 
quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then 
roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third 
vinegar as will cover it, with bay leaves, salt and both sorts of 
pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and 
Isoil ciuick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. 
It is an elegant dish, and extremely good. 

COD. — Some peoi)le boil the cod whole ; but a large head and 
shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner 
parts being overdone and tasteless, before the thick are ready. 
feut the whole fish maj' be purchased at times more reasonably, 
and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high per- 
fection in one or two days. Or it may be made saltcr, and served 
with egg sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. 
J Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite 
jffresh it is watery ; but eats excellently if salted and hung 
T up for a day to give it firmness, then stuffed and broiled or 
Vboiled. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders will eat much finer by having a 
little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if 
to be eaten the same day. 



26 COD— STUReEON. 

Tie it up and put it on the fire in cold Trater -vrliicli will com- 
pletely cover it. Throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must 
be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. 
Garnish ^vitll a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse- 
radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If 
■with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish ; or the 
beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve 
•«ith plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. 

Crimp Cod.— Boil, broil, or fry. 

Cod Sounds iDoiled. — Soak them in warm water half an hour, 
then scrape and clean ; and if to be dressed white, boil them in 
milk and water; when tender serve them in a napkin, with egg 
sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, imless for 
fricassee. 

Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens.— A good 
maigre-day dish. AYash three large sounds nicely, and boil in 
milk and water, but not too tender ; v.hen cold, put a forcemeat of 
chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, 
salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread it over the sounds, and roll 
up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them a.-? 
you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a 
itin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster 
sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. 

To Broil Cod. Sounds. — Scald in hot water, rub well with 
salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; 
take them out, flour, and broil. W^hile this is being done, season 
a little broAvn gravy with pei)per, salt, a tea-spoonful of soy, 
and a little mustard ; give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, 
and pour it over the sounds. 

Cod Sound Hagout.— Prepare as above; then stew them in 
•white gravy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added 
before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nut- 
meg, and the least pinch of pounded mace should give the flavour. 

Currie of Cod slioidd be made of sliced cod, that has either 
been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a 
iuie brown \^ith onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a 
little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four 
spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not 
hot enough. 

To Dress Salt Cod.— Soak and clean tlie piece you mean to 
dress, then lay it all niglit in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil 
it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it 
parsnips boiled, beaten into a mortar, and then boiled up with 
cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It 
may be served as above with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and 
the root sent up a^ hole, or the fish may be boiled and sent up 
without flaking, and sauces as above. 

STUHGEON.— To Dress Fresh Sturgeon.— Cut slices, 
rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, 
pepper, salt ; fold them in paper, and broil [^;cntl3'. 

Sauce ; butter, ancliovv, and sov. 



SKATE— CARP. 27 

To Roast sturgeon.— Put it on a lark spit, then tie it on a 
large spit; baste it constant]}^ with butter; and serve with good 
gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Se^^lle orange or lemon, and a 
glass of sherry. 

Another v/ay. — Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a 
8tew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, 
some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. 
Stir it over the fire till hot ; then let it become lukewarm, and steep 
the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, 
and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with 
sorrel and aiK-hovy sauce. 

An excellent Imitation'of Pickled Sturgeon. — Take a 
Une large turke}', but not old ; pick it very nicel.y, siuge, and 
make it extremely clean : bone rnd wash it, and tie it across and 
across with a bit of mat-strmg washed clean. Put into a very 
nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of 
white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt ; boil 
and skim it well , then boil the turkey. When done enough tighten 
the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds 
over it. 

Boil the liquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, put the 
turkey into it. This will keep some months, and eats more deli- 
cately than sturgeon ; vinegar, oil, and sugar are usually eaten 
withit. If more vinegar or salt should be wanted, add when cold . 
Send fennel over it to table. 

Thornbaek and Skate should be hung one day at least 
before they are dressed ; and may be served either boiled, or fried 
in crumbs, beiug first dipped inege. 

Cri] - - - 

above. 

Maids should likewise be hung one day at least. They may 
be boiled or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may bo 
boiled and the fins fried. They sliould be dipped in egg, and 
covered with crumbs. 

Boiled Carp. — Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which 
you will find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. 

Stewed Carp.— Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay 
the fish in a stev.pan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight 
cloves, a dessert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a 
fourth part of the ciuantity of gravj^ or port (cyder may do) ; sim- 
mer close covered : when nearly done add two anchovies chopped 
fine, a dessert spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut 
ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour : shake it, and let the gravy 
boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe 
fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. 

Baked Carp.— Clean a large carp ; put a stuflSng as for soles 
dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up ; brush it all over with 
yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs ; then drop oiled butter to 
baste them ; place the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock 
(or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sliced onions, some bay -leaves, a 
faggot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sorts of 



28 TEOFT— MACKEREL. 

marjoram), lialf a pint of port -^'ine, and six ancliovies, cover over 
the pan, and balce it an lionr. Let it be done before it is wanted. 
Ponr the hquor from it, and keep tlic fish hot while you heat np 
the Hquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonful 
of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve the 
fisli on the dish, garnished with lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, 
and put the gravy into the sauce-tureen. 

Perch and Tench.— Put them into cold water, boil them 
carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are a 
most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in 
stewing tliey do not preserve so good a flavour. 

To Fry Trout and Grayling.— Scale, gut, and well wash ; 
then dry them, and lay them separately on a board belbre the 
fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine 
colour with fresh dripping ; serve with crimped parsley, and plain 
butter. 

Perch and Tench may be done the same way. 

Trout a-la-Genevoise.— Clean the fish very well; put it 
into your ste\Apan, adding half Champagne and half Moselle, or 
Ehenish, or sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, 
a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsle}" and thyme ; 
put in it a crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When 
the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken 
the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that 
your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, 
and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried 
bread. 

MACKEREL— Eoil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt ; 
or stuff' Avith the same, crumbs, and chopped lenncl. Collared, 
as Eel, page 31. 

Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay- 
leaves, and some butter ; when cold, lay them in a pottiug-pot, 
I and cover with butter. 
Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, 
bay-leaves, and some vinegar ; when cold, pour it over them. 

Pickled Mackerel, called Caveach.— Clean and divide 
tliem ; then cut each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, 
cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take 
near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, 
and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder ; mix, and making 
holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each 
piece with some of it ; then fi-y them brown in oil ; let them stand 
till cold, then put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar ; 
if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be 
preserved for months. 

Red Mullet.— It is called the Sea- Woodcock. Clean, but 
leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small 
dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with 
a piece of butter, a little flour, a Httle essence of anchov}^ and a 



haddoce:— riKE— sofRS. 20 

glass of sherry. Give it a boil; and serve iu a boat, and the fish 
in the paper cases. 

To Dress PipGrs.— Boil, cr bake them with a pudding well 
seasoned. If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; 
and when done, take that, some essence of anchov}^ and a squeeze 
of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce. 

To Bake Pike.— Scale it, and open as near the throat as you 
can, then stuff it with the following : grated bread, herbs, anchovies, 
oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a x)int of cream, four yolks 
of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it in the 
fish, and sew it up ; butter should be put over it in little bits ; 
bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. 

2\'ote. — If in lielping a pike, the back and belly are slit, and each slice gently- 
drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. 

HADDOCK. — Boil; or broil with stuffing, as under, having 
salted them a day. 

To Dry Haddock. — Choose them of two or three pounds 
weight : take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the 
blood from the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into 
the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night ; then hang 
them up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be 
fit to eat ; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over 
them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown 
enough. Serve with egg-sauce. 

Whitings, if large, are excellent this way ; and it will prove 
an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply 
of fish. 

Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and Small Cod.— Take 
equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, 
thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and a fev: leaves of scented 
marjoram shred fine ; an anchovy or two ; a little salt and nulnieg, 
and some pepper. Oysters will be an improvement "nith or with- 
out anchovies ; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. 

SOLES. — If boiled, they must be served with great care to look 
perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. 

If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread ; 
set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, andi^ut into it a large 
quantity of fresh lard or dripping, boil it, and immediately slip 
the fish into it ; do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 28. 

Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt, 
and mustard. 

Stewed Soles.— Do as Carp, page 27. 

Soles another way.— Take two or three soles, divide them 
from the backbone, and takeoff the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle 
the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, 
and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a 
fish in each roll : small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of 
eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, 
and then put more crumbs ; and fry them a beautiful colour in 
lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. 



30 SOLI'S— rL.\TCE— EELS. 

Soles in the Portuguese way.— Take one large or two 
sma'l: if large, cut tlic fish in two; if small, they need only be 
split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a 
bit of butter and some lemon juice, give it a fr}^ then lay tlie fish on 
a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, 
fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a 
small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs 
over ; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat-gravj^, 
a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine and some 
parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan ; cover it close, 
and bake till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then 
place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep 
them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed ; if not enough, a 
little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to 
it. 

Portuguese Stuffing for Soles Baked.— Pound cold beef, 
mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been 
lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlic or shalot, 
some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; pound all fine 
with a few crumbs, and bind it with two or three yolks of eggs. 

The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, 
and kept on the outer side of the roll ; and when served the heads 
are to be turned towards each other in the dish. 

Garnish with fried or dried parsley. 

An excellent way of Dressing a Large Plaice, espe- 
cially if there be a Roe.— Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty- 
four hours ; then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, and 
cover with crumbs of bread ; make some lard or fine dripping, and 
two large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot ; lay the fish in, and 
fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried 
parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in 
vinegar, and not put it into the pan. 

To Fry Smelts. — They should not be washed more than is 
necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth : then hghtly fl.our 
them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egfx, then into 
bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boil- 
i?if/\3ird; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes wiU 
make them a bright j'cllow-brown. Take care not to take ofi" the 
light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost. 

EELS.— Spitchcock Eels.— Take one or two large eels, 
leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inclies long, open 
them on the belly side, and clean them nicely: wipe them dry, 
and then wet them with beaten egQ, and strew over on both sides 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace 
pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Eub the gridiron 
witli a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fijie colour. Serve with 
anchovy and butter for sauce. 

Fried Eels.— If small, should be curled round and fried, being 
first dipped into egs: and crumbs of bread. 

Boiled Eels.— The small ones are best : do them ia a smal 



fLOUXDErvS— HEIlLINGS. 31 

quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, wliicli should be 
served up Aviih them and the liquor. 

Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 

Eel Broth, very K'oiirishing for the Siek. — Do as above ; 
but stew two hours, and add a onion and pepper-corns : salt to 
taste* 

Collared Eel. — Bone a large eel, but do not slcin it : mix pepper, 
salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, 
and rub over the whole inside ; roll it tight, and bind with a coarse 
tape. Boil in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when 
cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. 
Chopped sage, parsky, and a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and 
savoury, mixed with "the spices, greatly improve the taste. 

To Stew Lamprey as at Worcester. — After cleaning the 
fish carefullj', remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and 
season with a small quantitj' of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and 
all-spice ; put it into a small stew-pot, with very strong beef- 
gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry. 

It must be covered close; stew till tender, then take out the 
lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or 
three anchovies chopped, and some Hour and butter ; strain the 
gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mus- 
tard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. 

Eels, done in the same way, are a good deal like the lamp^e5^ 
When there is spawn, it must be fried and put round. 

Xote. — Cycler will do in common instead of wliite ^rine. 

PLOUI^DEilS.— Let them be rubbed witli salt inside and 
out, and lie two hours to give tliem some firmness. Dip them 
into egg ; cover with crumbs, and fry them. 

Water Souchy. — Stevv- two or three flounders, some parsley- 
leaves and roots, thirty pepper-corns and a quart of water, till the 
fish are boiled to pieces ; pulp them through a sieve. Set over the 
fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, 
flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parslej' ; 
simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices 
of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the 
souchy. 

HEimiNGS AND SPSATS.— To Smoke Herrings. 
— Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one niccht; 
then hang them on a stick, through the ej'es, in a row. Have 
read}^ an old cask, in which put some sawdust, and in the midst 
of it a heater red-hot ; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them 
remain twenty-four hours. 

Fried Herrings.— Serve them of a hglit brown, with onions 
sliced and fried. 

Broiled Herrings.— Flour them first, and do of a good 
colour : plain butter for sauce. 

Potted Herrings are very good done like Mackerel, sec 
page 28. 

To Dross Bed Herings,-~Chcose those that are large and 



32 SPRATS— lOBSTErtS—MACKr.rvr.L. 

moist, cut them open, and pour some boilino: small beer over them 
to soak half an hour; drain tliem dry, and make them just hot 
through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over tliem and 
serve. Egg sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes should 
bo sent up with them. 

Baked Herrings and Sprats.— Wash and drain without 
wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few 
whole cloves ; la.y them in a pan with plenty of blaclc pepper, an 
onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small 
beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and 
bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over thorn the 
night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open 
them. 

Sprats.— AVhen cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a 
ske■v^'er run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot 
and hot. 

LOBSTERS AND SHRIMPS.— To Pot Lobsters- 
Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with 
mace, \\hite pepper, nutmeg and salt, press close into a pot and 
cover with butter, bake half an hour ; put the spawn in. When 
cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a httle of 
the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the 
spawn : then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be 
sufficient to cover the pots and strain it. Cayenne may be added, 
if approved. 

Another way to Pot Lobsters, as at Wood's Hotel.— 
Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remove 
the gut ; if the inside bo not watery, add that. Season with mace, 
nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest 
powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and tlie 
lobster smooth over it, with bay-leave:! between; cover it with 
butter, and bake gently. When done pour the whole en the 
bottom of a sieve, and with a fork la.y the pieces into potting-pots, 
some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour 
clarified batter over, but not hot. It will be good next day ; or 
liighl}' seasoned, and thickly covered with butter, Avill keep some 
time. 

Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream- 
sauce : it then looks verj' nicclj-', and eats excellently, especially if 
there is spawn. 

Mackerel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted as above. 

Stewed Lobster, a very high Relish.- Pick the lobster, 
put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down 
M ith a bit of butter, two spoonfids of any sort of gravy, one of soy, 
or walnut-ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of 
port ; strew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. 

Buttered Lobsters. — Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm 
with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, 
with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. 

To Roast Lobsters. — When you have half boiled the lobster, 
take it out of the shell, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay 



LocsTEES— craus~oysti:rs. 3.3 

it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine 
froth. 

Currie of Lobsters or Prawns.— Take them from the 
shells, and lay into a x)an, with a small piece of mace, three or four 
spoonfuls of veal-gravy, and four of cream : rub smooth one or 
two tea-spoonfuls of currie-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an 
ounce of butter : simmer an hour ; squeeze half a lemon in, and 
add salt. 

Pra\vns and Cray-fish in Jelly, a beautiftil Dish. — 
Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a deep 
small dish ; when cold, lay the cray-fish with their backs down- 
wards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. 

To Butter Prawns or Shrimps. — Take them out of the 
shells, and warm them with a little good gravj^ a bit of butter 
and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pei)per; simmer a minute 
or two, and serve with sippets ; or with a cream-sauce instead of 
brown. 

To Pot Shrimps.— When boiled, take them out of the skins, 
and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace 
and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, 
and when cold put butter. 

CKABS. — Hot Crab. — Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the 
shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonfuls of 
vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. Drj' toast 
should be served to eat it upon. 

Dressed Crab Cold.— Empty tlie shells, and mix the flesh 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and Caj-enne ; then 
put the mixture mto the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is 
necessarv. 

OYSTERS.— To Feed Oysters.— Pat them into water, 
and wash them with a birch-besom till quite clean ; then lay them, 
bottom-downwards in a pan. sprinkle m ith flour or oatmeal and 
salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will 
fatten. The water should be pretty salt. 

To Stew Oysters. — Open and separate the liquor from them, 
then wash them from the grit : strain the liquor, and put with the 
oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. 
Simmer them very gentlj^ and put some creajn and a little flour 
and butter. Serve with sippets. ■, 

Boiled Oysters.— Eat weU. Let the shells be nicely cleaned] 
first, and serve in them, to eat with cold butter. ' 

To Scallop Oysters.— Pat them with crumbs of bread, pep- 
per, salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, 
and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. 

Pried Oysters, to garnish Boiled Fish.— Make a batter 
of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into 
it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be 
put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

Oyster Sauce.— See Sauces. 

Oyster Loaves. — Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them 



S4 to CnOOSE MEATS. 

'n it; tlicn strain it tlirougli a sieve, and put a little of it into a 
tosser •s^'itll a bit of butter and flour, wliite pepper, a scrape of 
nutmeg;, and a little cream. Stew tliem, and cut in dice ; put tliem 
into rolls sold for the purpose. 

Oyster Patties. — See Patties. 

To Pickle Oysters. — Wasli four dozen of tlie largest oysters 
you can get in tlieir own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor 
off, adding to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a 
table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white 
wine, and four of vinegar. Simmer the oysters a few minutes in 
the liquor, then put them in small jars, and boil the pickle 
up, sliim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters : cover close. 

Another way to Pickle Oysters.— Open the number you 
intond to pichle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor 
for ten minutes, simmer them very gentlj'- ; then put them into a 
jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover 
them '^hen cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with 
a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hun- 
dred put two spoonfuls of the best undistilled vinegar. 

They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, 
for the air will spoil them. 

JS'ote. — Directions for making Fish Ties will be found under the head Pies . 



- HEATS. —^ 
To Choose Meats. 



VEiSriSOH.— If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the 
cleft part smooth and close, it is young ; but if the cleft is wide 
and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp 
narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by 
the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the liaut- 
gout. 

Beef.— If the flesh of os-beef is j^oung, it will have a fiiie 
smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat 
should look white rather than yellow, for when that is of a deep 
colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is in general 
so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and 
the fat whiter than that of ox-beef, but the lean is not of so bright 
a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and 
skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is 
the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in smaU fami- 
lies, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old 
meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef : the harder this 
is, tlie older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. 

Veal. — The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so whito- 
The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The 
whitest is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent 
bleeding and liaving had wliitiug to lick. Choose the meat of 
.which tlio kidncv i,3 ^.voU covered with thick white fot. If the 



TO CHOOSE MEATS. 35 

bloody vein in tlio slioulder looks blue, or of a briglit red, it is 
iievrly killed, but any other colour shows it stale. The other pnrt 
should be dry and white ; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale 
and bad. The kidney turns iirst in the loin, and the suet will not 
then be firm. 

Mutton.— Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, 
and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young ; if of a 
good breed and well fed, it is better for age, but this only holds 
with wether-mutton ; the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture 
finer, llam-mutton is very strong-flavoured, the flesh is of a deep 
red, and the fat is spongy. 

Lamb.— Observe the neck of a fore-quarter; if the vein is 
bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In 
the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and 
the knuckle is Kmp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the 
head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in Aprilor May 
and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great 
towns almost all the year, but is in the highest perfection in De- 
cember and Januarj'. 

Pork.— Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If the rind 
is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is 
old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh 
will be smooth and cool ; if clammj', it is tainted. What is called 
measly pork is very unwholesome, and may be knov>"n by the fat 
being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork 
feed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat 
being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. 

Bacon.— If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the 
lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may 
conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it 
is going, if not already rusty. 

Hams. — Stick a sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out 
with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; but if the knife is daubed 
and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are 
best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any prepara- 
tion of pork. 

Brawn. — The horny part of young brawn will feel moderately 
tender, and the flavour will be better; the rind of old will be 
hard. 

Observations on Purchasing, Keeping, and Dressing 
Meat. — In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes 
farthest : it cuts out with most advantage, and afibrds most 
nourishment. Hound of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are 
joints that bear a higher price ; but as they have more soHd meat, 
they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that 
those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably ; and, 
being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn ; for, when they 
are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these 
come lower. 

In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be 
taken out, as it is apt to taint ; as also the kernels of beef. Eumps 

c2 



36 ON KKEPING MEAT. 

aiid aitchbones of beef are often bruised by tbe blows the drovers 
give the beasts, and the part that has been struck alwaj's taints ; 
therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. 

The shank-bones of mutton should be saved ; and, after soaking 
and crushing, may be added to give richness to gravies or soups. 
They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. 

When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part 
of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarifv. 

Dripping will baste everything as -well as butter, except 
fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be 
used. 
^ The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding 
than suet. 

Meat and vegetables that the frost has touchsd, should be 
soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if 
they are much iced. _ Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, 
till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them pro- 
perly afterwards. 

In warm weather, meat should be examined when it comes in ; 
and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well 
washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat 
that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well 
any part likely to have been fly-blown ; then wipe it quite dr}', 
and have salt ready, and rub it thorouglily in every part, throwing 
a handful oyer it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle 
in, which will make it ready for the table in three or four days. 
If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well-floured cloth, after 
rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for 
the table the day it comes in, but it must be put into the pot when 
the water boils. 

If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two 
or three days before it is salted. 

The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent 
soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. 

Iloast beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine peas-soup ; 
and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the 
fat may be taken off. 

In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. 
The best waj'' to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before 
directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces 
of charcoal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm 
weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and 
bring it early in the morning ; but even then, if it is kept on the 
road M'hile he serves the customers, who live nearest to him, 
it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the 
country. 
y AVash all meat before you dress it : if for boiling, the colour will 
^ be better for soaking ; but if for roasting, dry it. 

Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. 

Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the 
^'moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the 



ON DEESSING MEAT. 37 

meat. The more soups or brotli are skimmed, tlie better and 
cleaner they will be. 

The boiler, &c., should be kept delicately clean. 

Put the meat into cold water, but flour it well first. Meat 
boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken that in boiling 
slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. 

If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; there- 
fore, when you wish it to boil away take off the cover of the 
soup-pot. 

V egetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots 
or parsnips with boiled beef. 

As to the length of time required for roasting and boiling, the 
size of the joint must direct ; as also the strength of the fire, the 
nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow 
progress it makes; for if the cook, when told to hinder the 
copper from boiling quick, let it stop from boiling up at all, the 
usual time will not be sufficient, and the meat will be under- 
done. 

Weigh the meat ; and allow for all solid joints a quarter of an 
hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, 
according as the family like it done. 

A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and 
others in proportion, 

A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after soak- 
ing ; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three 
hours, or more if very large ; it must be judged by feeling whether 
it is very tender. 

A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the allowance of twenty minutCv^, 
above a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and 
a half; twenty pounds will take about three hours and three 
quarters. 

A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a 
proper distance. A chine of pork two hours. 

The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and 
brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, 
which will x)revent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat 
should be much basted ; and, when nearly done, floured to make 
it look frothed. 

Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to 
preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, good dripping 
answers as well as butter. 

The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best 
parts ; and sliould observe that it be well cleaned before and at the 
time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many 
joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for 
some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat ; and the 
cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with ; for want 
of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of 
serving. 

In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and 



38 VENISON. 

water into the dripping-pan, and baste for a little wlille witli this, 
before using its own fat or di'ipping. When dry, dust it M'ith 
flour, and baste as usual. 

Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy : it 
should only be sprinkled when almost done. 

Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size 
for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook's atten- 
tion in roasting. 

Old meats do not require so much dressing as young ; not that 
they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy 
more in. 

A piece of paper should be twisted round the bone at the 
knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when 
roasted, before they are served. 

When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them 
fi'ji'ce over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enougli 
to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fr}^ in must 
always be boihng hot the moment the fish, meat, &c., are put in, 
and kept so till finished ; a small quantity never fries vsell. 

To Keep Meat Hot. — It is to take it up when done, though 
the company may not be come ; set the dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and 
then throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the 
gravy. 

VEK"ISO!N".— To Keep Venison. — Keep the venison dry, 
wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean 
cloths till not the least damp remains ; thendust pounded ginger 
over every part, which is a very good preventive against the %. By 
thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to 
be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper 
is likewise good to keep it. 

To Dress Venison. — A haunch of buck will take three hours 
and a half or three quarters roasting ; doe, only three hours and a 
quarter. Venison should be rather under than over done. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter and put it over the 
fat, first sprinkhng it with a little salt ; then lay a coarse paste on 
strong paper and cover the haunch, tie it with fine packthread, 
and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. 
Baste it often ; ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw 
the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal 
of flour to make it froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish 
(unless the venison has none), and made thus : — Cut off the flit 
from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in 
steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side ; put 
them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover close for an 
hour, and simmer it gently ; then uncover it, and stew till the 
gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. 

Currant jell)' sauce must be served in a boat. 

Formerly pap sauce was eaten with vciiison ; ■which, as some 
still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread tmd 




VENiSON 
1. Haimoh. 3. Shoalder. 

1. Neck. 4. Bvea&i, 



1. ForeLoiii. 
2. Hand. 5. Hind Loin. 

i 3. Belly or Sprm^. <•. Le<<, 




1. Sirloin. 

2. Rump. 

3. Edge Bene. 

4. Buttock. 

5. Mouse Buttocl 



Kind Quarter 




18 Tie \\\ \ \ / 
\ Ati \n\wv-. 

< J-^ "rrfi^ — ■ \ 



„. Veiny Piece. 

7. Tliick Flauk. 

8. Tlun Flank. 

9. Leg. 
10. Fore Rib; 5 Ribs 



BEEF. 

Fore Quarter. , 

n. Middle Rib; 4 Ribs. 15. Clod. ' 

12. Chuck; 3 Ribs. 16. Neck, or 

13. Shoulder, or Leg Slicking-piece. 
of Mutton Piece. 17. Shin. 

14. Bnsket. IS. Cheek. 




VEAL. 

1. Loin, Best End. 6. Neck, BesI End. 

2. Loin.ChumpEnd. 7. Neck, Scrag End. 

3. Fillet. 8. Blade Booe. 

1. Hmd Knuckle. 9. Breast, Best End. 
5. Fore Knuckle 10. Breast, Basket End, 




MUTTON. 
1. Leg. G. Shoulder. 

i. Lofn, Best End. 7. Breast, f Necks. 

3. Loln,ChumpEnd. A Chuic is Two 

4. Neck, Best End. A Saddle is Two 

5. Keck, Scrag End. [Loins. 



40 VENISON— BEEF. 

boll it witli port vrine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon ; and 
■when quite smooth take out the cinnamon and add sugar. Claret 
may be used for it. 

Make the jelly sauce thus. Beat some currant jelly and a 
spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. 
"WJiere jelly runs short, put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, 
to tlie jelly, and melt as above. Serve witli Frem-h beans. 

Haiineh, K'eck, and Shoulder of Venison.— Eoast with 
paste as directed above, and the same sauce. 

To Stew a Shoulder of Venison.— Let the meat hang till 
you think fit to dress it ; then take out the bone, beat the meat 
with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton fat that have lain a 
few hours in a little port wine, sprinkle a little pepper and allspice 
over it in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stew- 
pan that will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy not 
strong, half a pint of port wine, aifd some pepper and allspice. 
Simmer it close-covered, as slow as you can, for three or four 
hours. Yv^hen quite tender take off the tape, set the meat in a 
dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant jelly sauce. 
This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, 
and then it should be roasted. The bone should be stewed 
with it. 

Breast of Venison. — Do it as the shoulder, or make it into 
a small pasty. 

Hashed Venison should be warmed with its own gravy, or 
some without seasoning, as before ; and only warmed through, 
not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat, 
set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till 
dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the 
venison. 

For Venison Pasty look under the head Pastry ; as likewise 
an excellent imitation. 

BEEF.— To Keep Beef.— The butcher should take out the 
kernels in the neck-pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, 
two from each round of beef, and one in the middle, which is 
called the pope's eye ; the other from the flap -. there is also one in 
the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken 
out, especiallj^ in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping 
the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the riimp and the 
aitchbone. 

As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook 
should take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such 
beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for 
roasting. 

The iiesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of 
food, soon spoils. They should fast twent.y-four hours in winter, 
and double that time in summer before being killed. 

To Salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately.— The 
piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very 
thoroughly just before j'ou put it into the pot, take a coarse cloth, 
flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a 



SALT BEEF— BEEF A-LA-MODE. ^ 

pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as 3'ou would any other 
salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or 
five daj'S. 

Great attention is reciuisite in salting meat ; and in tlie country, 
where large quantities are cured, this is of particular importance. 
Beef and pork should be well sprinkled, and a few hours after- 
wards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with salt ; which method 
by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from 
tasting strong. It should be turned every daj^ ; and if wanted 
soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be 
use J, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt 
meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and 
when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled and drained* 

To Salt Beef Red, whicli 7.s extremely good to eat 
fresh from the Pickle, or to hang to Dry.— Choose a piece 
of beef with as little bone as 3-ou can (the flank is most proper), 
sprinkle it and let it drain a day ; then rub it with common salt, 
saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, 
and 3'ou may add a few grains of cochineal, all in line powder. 
Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn 
it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from 
the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated 
with wood, or send it to the bake-house. A few days will smoke 
it. A httlc of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. 
It eats well boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to bo 
grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely 
tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold fold 
it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two 
or tliree months, ready for serving on bread and butter. 

The Dutch Way to Salt Beef.— Take a lean piece of beef; 
rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. 
In three daj's wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre 
beaten fine : rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fort- 
night. Eoll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large 
weight ; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down 
every day. Boil it in pump water, and press it: it will grate or 
cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. 

Beef a-la-mode. — Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine 
heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free 
from 3'ellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick : dip them into 
vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black 
pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with i^arsley, 
chives, thj-me, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as 
possible, and well mixed. "With a sharp knife make holes deep 
enough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with the sea- 
soning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tmned pot 
over a fire or rather stove ; three or four onions must be fried brown 
and put to the beef, with two or tlirce carrots, one turnip, a head 
or two of celery, and a smaU quantity of water ; let it simmer 
gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the 
meat twice. 






42 FRICINDEAU OF BEEF— STEWED EXrMP. 

Put the gravj'- into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered,^ 
then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take off 
the tape, and serve \^ith the vegetables ; or you may strain them 
off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, 
and then stewed with the gravy, are a great improvement. A 
tea-cnpful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. 
A Fricandeau of Beef. — Take a nice piece of lean beef, lard it 
ith bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. 
Put it into a stew;pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white-wine, 
a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a 
shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is 
become tender, cover it close ; skim the sauce well, and strain it : 
set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. 

ji Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel- 

\^sauce. 

To Stew a Bump of Beef. — Wash it well and season high 
with salt, allspice, pepper, Cayenne, three cloves, and a blade of 
mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot 
that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put 
them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a 
iDlade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef- 
broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible for several 
hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat ; add to the gravy half 
a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of 
ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a 
pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be 
burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny- 
royal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them ; 
but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the 
several sorts ; let there be a good handful all together. 

Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles 
of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate ; 
chopped parsley, chives, beetroot, &c. If, when done, the gravy 
is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, 
but the less vrater the better ; and to increase the richness, add a 
few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stevring. A spoonful or 
two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. E.ump 
roasted is excellent, but in the country it is generally sold whole 
with the aitchbone, or cut across instead of lengthvrise, as^ in 
London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing 
or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large 
to dress together. 

Stewed Rump another way.— Half-roast^ it ,- then put it 
into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one 
of port v.ine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of 
ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, 
tarragon, parslej^ thyme, basil, pennyro3^al, savoury, marjoram, 
knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, 
and Cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender; two 
or three hours will do it. AVhen done, lay it into a deep dish, set 
i|; over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy: put in a 



BEEP EN MIEOTON— HUNTEK S BEEF. 43 

few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, 
but it is good without ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, 
and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat- 
balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, 
to bind, are a great improvement. 

Beef en Miroton.— Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put 
them into a frying-pan with some butter, and six onions, turn the 
pan frequently, then mix a little broth, add pepi)er and salt, and 
after a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and econo- 
mical. 

To Stew Brisket of Beef.— Put the part with the hard fat 
into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water ; let it boil up, and 
skim it thoroughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and 
a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremelj^ tender, then take out the 
flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Serve that and 
the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone and the meat on a dish, 
garnished with some vegetables. The follov^ing sauce is much 
admired, served with the beef: — Take half a pint of the soup and 
mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a lea- 
spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt ; 
boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. 
Chox") capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and 
chives or parsley, small, and put into separate heaps over it. 

To Press Beef.- Salt a bit of brisket, the thin part of the 
flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, 
then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great 
weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. 

It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. 

To make Hunter's Beef. — To a round of beef that weighs 
twentj'-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces 
of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce 
of allspice, and fliree handfuls of common salt, all in the finest 
powder. 

The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the above 
well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. 
The bone must be taken out at first. When to be dressed, dip it 
mto cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight m ith 
tape, and put it into a pan vrith a tea-cupful of water at the 
bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan 
with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. 
When cold, take ofi" the paste and tape. 

The gravy is very fine ; and a httle of it adds greatly to the 
flavour of any hash, soup, &c. 

Both the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The meat 
should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to pre- 
vent -R'aste. 

An excellent Mode of Dressing Beef. — Hang three ribs 
three or four days ; take out the bones from the whole length, 
sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing 
can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c., and baked as 
hunter'.s beef, i-s excellent. 



44 BEEF STEAKS AXD OTSTER- SAUCE— BEEF COLLOr. 

To CoUar Beef— Choose the thin end of the flank of fine 
mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and salt- 
petre, turn and rub it every day for a weelc, and keep it cool. 
Take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside 

f)art, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small : a 
arge handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, 
and pennj'royal, pepper, salt and allspice. Roll the meat up as 
tight as possible and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight 
hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. _ Put the beef 
under a good weight while hot, without undoing it ; the shape 
will then l^e oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, 
looks and eats very Avell. 

^ Beef Steaks should be cut from the rump that has hung a few 
days. Broil them over a ver^' clear or charcoal fire : put into the 
dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup ; and 
rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should 
be turned often, that the gravy may not be di'awn out on either 
side. 

This dish requires to be eaten hot and fresh-done, and is not in 
perfection if served with anything else. Pepper and salt should 
be added when taking it off the fire. 

Beef Steaks and Oyster Sauce.— Strain off the liquor 
from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the 
grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon- 
peel ; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, add a 
little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of 
flour : let them boil up once, and have rump steaks, well seasoned 
and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster sauce over the moment 
you are to serve. 

Stafibrdshire Beef Steaks.— Peat them with a rolling-pin, 
flour and season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown ; 
lay the steaks in a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over 
them as will serve for sauce ; stew them very gently half an hour, 
and add a spoonful of ketchup or walnut-liquor, before you 
serve. 

Italian Beef Steaks. — Cut a fine large steak from a rump 
that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part: beat 
it, and season with pepper, salt, and onion ; lay it in an iron stew- 
pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the 
fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a 
strong heat : in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and 
then serve with its own gravy. 

Beef CoUop.— Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any 
other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long ; 
beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the 
collops quick in butter two minutes ; lay them into a small ste^^- 
pju, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter 
rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine 
as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, and a tea- 
spoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil, and 
serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. 



BEEF PALATES— BEEF CAKES— BEEF OLIVES. 45 

Beef Palates. — Simmer lliem for several hours, till they vrill 
peel ; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you 
choose, and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possil3le. 
Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. 
If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. 

If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in a 
fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, mushroom powder, 
and a little pounded mace. 

Beef Cakes for a Side Dish of Dressed Meat. — Pound 
some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon or ham ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlic ; mix them well, and 
make into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and 
thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick 
gravy, 

To Pot Beef. — Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it vrith salt- 
j)etre, and let it be one night ; then salt with common salt, and 
cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, 
and season with black pepper ; lay it in as small a pan as will hold 
it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool 
oven. Put no liquor in. 

When cold, pick out the strings and fat ; beat the meat very 
fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not 
oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste ; put 
it into very small pots, and cover them -^^ ith melted butter. 

Another way.— Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled 
or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few 
cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter just warm. 

This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way 
for using the remains of a lame joint. 

To Dress the Inside of a Cold Sirloin of Beef.— Cut 
out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick as your finger, 
and two inches long : dredge it with flour, and fry in butter, of a 
nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a 
rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchov}^ and shalot. Do 
not let it Ijoil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoon- 



fuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. 
' Fripassee of COM lluayl 'Bmf.—Cnt the beef into verj 
thin slices, shred a handful of parsley ^'ery small, cut an onion into 
quarters, and put all together into a stew-pan, with a piece of] 
butter and some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and 
simmer very gently a quarter of an hour ; then mix into it the 
yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; 
stir it cxuick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee 
into it. 

To Dress Cold Beef that has not b 3 en done enough, 
called Beef Olives.— Cut slices half an inch thick, and four 
inches square : lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of l)road, shalot, 
a little suet or fat, pepper and salt. Eoll them, and fasten with a 
small skewer ; put them into a stew-pan with some gravy made of 
the beef bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of 
water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat wiU do. 



46 HASnED BEEF— :ni:EF A.-LA-VJNGEETTE. 

('" To Dress the same, called Sanders.— Mince beef or 
mutton small, Tiitli onion, pepper, and salt; iidd a little gravy; 
put it into seallop-sliclls or saucers, makiiLg- tlicni three parts full, 
and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a 
bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven or before the 
fire, or with a salamander. 

f To Dress the same, called Cecils— Mince any kind of 
/meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, 
/ lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, and a bit of 
I butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes ; when 
I cool enough, make them up into balls the size and shape of a 
I turkey's egg, with an agg ; sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and 
\ then fry theni of a yelloAS' brown, and serve with gravy as before 
\ du-ected for Beef Olives. 

rTo Mince Beef.— Shred the underdone part fine, with some 
of the fat ; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot 
j^ (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt ; boil it tiU 
the onion is quite soft ; then put some of the gravy of the meat to 
it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with 
sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a 
large spoonful of vinegar with it : if shalot- vinegar is used, there 
will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. 

To Hash Beef. — Do it the same as in the last receipt, only 
the meat is to be in sHces, and you may add a spoonful of walnut- 
liquor or ketchup. 

Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they 
get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, 
should be onl}^ simmered ; and this last only hot through. 

Beef a-la-Vingrette.— Cut a shce of underdone boiled beef 
three inches thick and a little fat ; stew it in half a pint of water, 
a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay 
leaf: season it with three cloves pounded and pepper, till the 
liquor is nearly wasted awaj^ turning it once. When cold, serve 
it. Strain off the grav.y, and mix it with a little vinegar for 
sauce. 

Bound of Beef should be carefully salted, and wet with the 
pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, the 
beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be 
stuffed with parsley, if approved ; in which case the holes to admit 
the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the 
parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils 
it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. 

Rolled Beef that equals Hare.— Take the inside of a large 
sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, 
for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it 
up tight, lloast it on a hanging spit, and baste it with a glass of 
port -^-ine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of 
pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour: 
serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted- 
butter, in tureens. 

To Roast Tongue and Udder.— After cleaning the tongue 



KCKLED TOXGTTES— STEWED TOXGtES. 47 

well, salt it with common salt and saltpetre tliree days, tlicn boil 
it, and likewise a fine young udder with, some fat to it, tDl tole- 
rablj^ tender : tlien tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the 
other, and roast the tongue and udder together. 

Serve them with good grav^-, and currant-jelly sauce. A few 
cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. 

Some people hke neat's tongues cured with the root, in which 
case they look much larger ; but otherwise the root must be cut 
off close to the gullet, next to tjie tongue, but without taking away 
the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and 
water, and extremely well cleaned, before it is dressed ; and 
the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before 
pickled. 

To Pickle Tongues for Boiling.— Cut off the root, but 
leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it 
drain from the slime till next day : then for each tongue mLx a 
large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and 
about half as much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every 
day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed 
every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only 
turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without 
being too salt. 

When you dry tongues, write the date on a parchment and tie 
it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you like best. 

"Wlien it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; allow 
five hours, and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer 
kept after drj-ing, the higher it will be : if hard, it may require 
soaking three or four hours. 

Another way. — Clean as above : for two tongues allow an 
ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-pruneUa ; rub them well. 
In two days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, 
turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, rub bran 
over them, and smoke them. In ten days they wdll be fit to eat. 
Keep in a cool dry place. 

To Stew Tongue. — Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common 
salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to 
peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season 
with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt 
if necessary, 

Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this re- 
ceipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before 
salting, but some fat left. 

An excellent way of doing Tongues to eat Cold.— 
Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay- 
salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fort- 
night ; then take awaj^ the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, 
and lay some butter on it ; cover it with brown crust, and bake 
slowly till so tender that a straw would go througli it. 

The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like 
hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of 
omelets. 



48 STEWED OX-CUEEK— ilARR0W-B02fES~TBlri:. 

Beef-heart. — "NYasli it carefully ; stuff as hare; and serve witli 
rich gravy and currant-jelly sauce. _ 

Hash with the same, and port wine. 

Stewed Ox-cheek Plain.— Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the 
day before it is to be eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover 
close, with three quarts of water : simmer it after it has first 
boiled up and been well skimmed. In two hours put plenty of 
carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often ; wlien 
the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup get cold, take off the 
cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. 

It should be of a fine brown ; which may be done by burnt 
sugar ; or b}^ frying some onions quite brown with flour, and sim- 
mering them with it. This last vray improves the flavour of all 
soups and gravies of the brown kind. 

If vegetables arc not approved in the soup, they may be taken 
out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried and added. Celery 
is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not 
to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled in 
and strained off. 

To Dress an Ox-cheek another way.— Soak half a head^ 
three hours, and clean it with plenty of Avater. Take the meat off 
the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, i^epper, and salt. 

Lay the bones on the top ; pour on two or three quarts of water 
and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit 
close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven ; or simmer 
it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearlh. When done tender, 
put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake 
of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what 
vegetables you choose. 

Marrow-bones.— Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them 
and serve with dry toast. 

Tripe may be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onicn 
till tender. Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in butter. 

Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy ; thicken with flour 
and butter, and add a little ketchup. 

Or fricassee it with white sauce. 

Soused Tripe. — Boil the tripe, but not quite tender ; then 
put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it 
is all used. AYhen j'ou dress the tripe, dip it into a batter of flour 
and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. 

Ox-feet or Cow-heels. — May be dressed in various ways, and 
arc very nutritious in all. 

Boil tliem ; and serve in a napkin, vrith melted butter, mustard, 
and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Or boitthem very tender, and serve them as a brown fricasFee ; 
the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relishing, and likewise 
give richness to soups or gravies. 

Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flcur 



VEAL— KNUCKLE OF YE AL— SHOULDER OF VEAL. 49 

and fr.v tliem ; aud fry onions (if you like tliem) to serve round. 
Sauce as above. 

Or bake tliem as for mock-turtle. 

Bubble and Squeak.— Boil, chop, and fry with a little butter, 
pepper, and salt, some cabbage, and la}^ on it slices of underdone 
beef, liglitly fried. 

VEAL.— To Keep Veal.— Tlie first part that turns bad of a 
leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer 
should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped 
every day, by which means it will keep good three or four days 
in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs along 
tlie chine of a loin of^veal, as you do of heef. to hinder it from 
tainting. The skirt of a breast of veal is likewise to be taken off; 
and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with 
a little salt. 

Leg of Veal. — Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits 
the number of 3'our compa.ay. Take out the bone, fill the space 
with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered guite round ; and send 
the large side uppermost. When half-roasted, not before, put a 
paper over the fat ; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and 
put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is solid : serve 
Avitii melted butter poured over it. — You may pot some of it. 

Knuckle of Veal. — As few people are fond of boiled veal, it 
may l)e well to leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets 
or collops before it be dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep longer 
than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. 
Break the bones, to make it take less room ; wash it well ; and 
put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, 
and a few pepper-corns : cover it with water, aud simmer till 
quite ready. In the meantime some maccaroni should be boiled 
with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give it a small 
degree of thickness ; but do not put too much. Before it is served, 
add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with 
or without the meat. 

Or, fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a good 
brown ; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or 
two, stewed in a small quantity of water an hour : then add these 
to the veal ; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but 
not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred meat, and 
serve all together. 

Shoulder of Veal.— Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. 
Eoast the other part with stuffing : you may lard it. Serve with 
melted butter. 

The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats ex- 
tremely well with mushroom or oyster sauce, or mushroom 
ketchup in butter. 

Neck of Veal. — Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with 
onion-sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and 
butter maj' be served with it, instead of onion sauce. 

Or, it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper 
corns, with a very little water. 

D 



60 NECK OF YEAL A-LA-BRAIi?E— BllEAST OF YEAL. 

Or, boiled and eaten "with bacon and greens. 

The best cud may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made 
into pies. 

Neck of Veal a-la-braise.— Lard the best end with bacon' 
rolled in parslc.y chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it 
into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a 
little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celer.r, 
and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours or 
till it is tender, but not too much. Strain on the liquor : mix a 
little flom' and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal iu 
this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the 
lire till it gets coloured : then lay it into the dish, stir some of the 
liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and sciueeze orange and 
lemon-jmce into it. 

Breast of VeaL — Before roasted, if large, the two ends may 
be taken of!" und fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. 
Butter should be poiu-ed over it. 

If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into 
a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it, or if you have no broth, 
a little water will do : add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of 
mace, some pepper, and an anchovy ; stew till the meat is tender, 
t'liicken with butter and flour, ancl add a little ketchup ; or the 
Vi hole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. 

Serve the sweetbread whole upon it, either stevred or parboiled, 
and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and 
browned in a Dutch oven. 

If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them 
with it, and serve. 

Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion sauce, is an excel- 
lent dish, if not cold nor too fat. 

To Roil a Breast of Veal.— Bone it, take off the thick skin 
and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it m ith 
herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay 
some thick slices of fine ham ; or roll into it two or three calves' 
tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skimmed. 
Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to 
simmer in a small ciuantity of water till it ia quite tender : this 
will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and 
weight on it till quite cold. 

Pigs' or calves' feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be 
put in or round it. The different colours laid in laj^ers look wcJl 
when cut ; and you may put in yolks of egg boiled, beet-root, 
grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. 

Another way. — When it is cold, take off' the tape, and pour 
over it the liciuor ; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it ^^ ill 
not keep. 

Chump of Veal a-la-daiibe.— Cut off the chump end of the 
loin ; take out the aitch-bone ; stuff the hollow with good force- 
meat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you 
took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, 
a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal-broth. Cover the veal 



VEAL EOLLS— MINCED VEAL— CUTLETS MAINTEXOX. 51 

\^-itli slices of fat bacon and lay a sheet of white paper over it. 
Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, 
and glaze the veal. Serve it on mushrooms, or with sorrel sauce, 
or what else you please. 

Veal Rolls of either Cold Meat or Fresh.— Cut thin slices ; 
and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little 
chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and 
shalot (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushroom.s 
stewed and minced), pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded 
mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sausage, 
or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, 
and stew it verv' slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherr}'. 

Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. 

Harrico of Veal.— Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the 
bones short, but leave it whole : put it into a stew-pan, just cover 
with brown gravy ; and T^'hen it is nearly done, have ready a pint 
of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- 
lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth ; put 
them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the 
veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay 
the lettuce with forcemeat-balls around it. 

A Dunelui of Cold Veal or Fowl.— Stew a few small mush- 
rooms in their own liquor and a bit of butter, a quarter of an 
hour ; mince them very small, and add them (with their liquor) 
to mince veal, with also a little pepper and salt, some cream and a 
bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of flour. Sim- 
mer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. 

Minced Veal. — Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not 
chop it. Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of 
nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak 
broth, milk, or water ; simmer these gently with the meat, but 
take care not to let it boil, and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. 
Put sippets of thin toasto4 bread, cut into a three-cornered shape 
round the dish. 

To Pot Veal. — Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal ; or you 
may do it as follows : — 

Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some 
mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves ; lay it close into a 
potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake 
it three hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt 
to taste : put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to 
he eaten soon ; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When 
done, cover it over with butter. 

To Pot Veal or Chicken with Ham.— Pound some cold 
veal or white of chicken, season as directed in the last article, and 
put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred ; press 
each down and cover with butter. 

Cutlets Maintenon.— Cut slices about three quarters of an 
inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both 
sides with egg : dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, ijars" 
ley, thyme, knotted marjoram, penper, salt, and a little nutmeg 

n 2" 



52 VEAL COLLOrS— FRICAXDEAr OF VEAL. 

grated ; then put them into papers folded over, and broil thera ; 
and have in a boat melted butter with a little mushroom-ketchup. 

Cutlets another way. — Prepare as above, and fry them ; 
lay them into a dish, and keep them hot ; dredge a little flour, 
and put a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little 
boiling water into it, and boil cjuick : season with pepper, salt, and 
ketchup, and pour over them. 

Other ways. — Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a 
Dutch-oven ; i^our over them melted butter and mushrooms. ^ 

Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck-steaks. They 
are excellent with herbs. 

Veal Collops. — Cut long thin collops ; beat them well ; and lay 
on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat 
on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. 
Holl them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more 
than two or three inches long ; put a very small skewer to fasten 
each firmly- ; rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a 
rich brown gravy over. 

To Dress Collops Quick. — Cut them as thin as paper with 
a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any 
odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and 
salt ; set them on the fire while you beat the collops ; and dip 
them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape 
of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put some butter into 
a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry ; for as they 
are so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides : put them into 
a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, give 
it a boil in the ftying-pan, and pour it over the coUops, A little 
ketchup is an improvement. 

Another way. — Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt 
and pepper ; simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with 
bits of bacon served with them. 

If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. 

Scallops of Cold Veal or Chicken.— Mince the meat 
extremely small ; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, 
a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes : 
then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of 
bread, over which iDut some bits of butter, and brown them before 
the fire. 

Either veal or chicken looks and eats ^a ell prepared in this way, 
and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried ; or these may be 
put on in little heaps. 

Frieandeau of Veal.— Cut a large piece from the fat side of 
J-he leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad ; beat 
it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough 
edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Lay it in the stew-pan with pieces of 
undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of 
.sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay leaves, a pint of good 
veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gam- 
mon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours; 



VEAL OLIVES— VEAL CAKES— SCOTCH COLLorS. 53 

then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil 
it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and theu glazo 
it ; and serve vrith the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel 
sauce ill a sauce tureen. 

A Cheaper, but equally good Fricandeau of Veal.— 
With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a larj^e neck from the best 
end, scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and pre- 
pare it the same way as in the last receipt : three or four bones 
onh' will be necessary, and they will make the gravy ; but if the 
prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. 

Fricandeau another way.— Take two large round sweet- 
breads, and prepare them as .you would veal ; make a rich gravy 
with truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms, and 
serve it round. 

Veal Olives.— Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them 
thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat sea- 
soned high, with some shred shalotand Ca.yenne. Eoll them tight, 
about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches 
long ; fasten them round with a small slcewer, rub egg over them, 
and fry of a lidit brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which 
boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls 
fried. 

Veal Cake. — Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks iu two, 
and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot ; shake in a 
little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, and then eggs 
again ; shaking in after each some chopped parsle.y, with pepper 
and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, 
and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it over with a double 
paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together 
with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. 

It may be put into a small mould : and then it will turn out 
beautifully for a supper or side dish. 

Veal Sausages. — Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat 
bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few ancho- 
vies. Beat all in a mortar : and when used roll and fry it, and 
serve with fried sippets, or on. stewed vegetables, or on white 
collops. 

Scotch Collops. — Cut veal into thin bits about three inches 
over, and rather round ; beat with a rolling pin. and grate a little 
nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk of an egg; and fry them in 
a little butter of a fine brown ; pour the butter off, and have ready 
warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter 
rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of cream, 
and a bit of salt. Do not boil the sauce, but stu* it till of a fine 
thickness to serve with the collops. 

To Boil Calf's Head.— Clean it very nicely, and soak it in 
water, that it may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, 
. and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely 
tender ; then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and 
brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon 
and greens to cat with it. 



6i HASHED calf's nEAB— calf's head FIIICASSEED. 

The brains must be boiled ; and then mixed with melted butter, 
scalded sage chopped, i^epper, and salt. 

If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few 
slices of bacon, just warmed and put round. 

Cold calfs liead eats well if ^Tilled. 

To Hash Calf's Head.- When half-boiled, cut off the moat 
in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long: brown 
some butter, flour, and sliced onions, and tlirow in the slices with 
some good gravy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skim it 
well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. 
Season with pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at first ; and ten minutes 
before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit 
of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible ; just 
before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat-balls, 
and bits of bacon rolled round. 

Another way.— Boil the head till done, and take the meat of 
the best side neatly off the bone -v^ith a sharp knife ; lay this into 
a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and coA'er 
it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and 
salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish 
before the fire, and keep turDing it now and then, that all parts 
of the head may be equall}' brown. In the meantime slice the 
remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue : 
put a pint of good gravj' into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch 
of herbs (consisting of parsley, basil, savoury, tarragon, knotted 
marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and Caj-^enne, a shalot, 
a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor. Boil this for a few- 
minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged 
with some flour. Add some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, a 
few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup ; then beat 
up half the brains, and i)ut this to the rest with a bit of butter and 
flour. vSimmer the whole. 

Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little 
imtmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in 
little cakes of a beautiful yellow brown. Dip some oysters into 
the yolk of an egg, and do the same ; and also some relishing force- 
meat-balls made as for mock turtle. Garnish with these, and small 
bits of bacon just made hot before the lire. 

Calf's Head Fricasseed.— Clean and half-boil a head ; cut 
the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, -^ith a little gravy 
made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any 
young cockrels in the house, use the cockscombs ; but first boil 
tliem tender and blanch them ; or a sweetbread will do as well. 
Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down 
some flour and butter, and give all a boil together ; then take out 
the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil 
it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. 

To CoUar a Calf's Head.— Scald the skin off a fine head, 
clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to 
remove the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped 



Mock tuetli^.. 55 

parsleyj mace, nutmeg, salt, and \\-liitc pepper, mixed well ; season 
it high with, these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity 
of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautifully-coloured touguc skinned, 
and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there 
about. Eoll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as j'ou can. 
Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. xi. cloth must be put under the 
tape, as for other collars. 

Mock Turtle. — Bespeak a calf's head with th.e skin on, cut it 
in half, and clean it well ; then half boil it, take all the meat off 
in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil tliem in some 
veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot iu 
butter, and dredge in flour enough, to thicken the gravy : stir tliis 
into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skin it carefullj,', 
and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, ancl 
simmer it till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before 
you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne, 
pepper, and salt to your taste ; also two spoonfuls of mushroom 
ketchup, and one of soy. Scnjeeze the juice of a lemon into the 
tm-een, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat bails, and small 
eggs. 

A Cheaper wa.y.— Prepare half a calf's Lead, without the 
el^in, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put 
them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal 
bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. 
Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, 
and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into 
pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and 
onion, and pour the gravy to it ; then add the meats as above, and 
stew. Haifa x)int of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonfuls of walnut 
ketchup, the same of mushroom ketchup, and some chopped herbs 
as before. Balls, &c. 

Another. — Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow- 
heels, two onions, a few cloves, pex)pers, berries of allspice, mace, 
and svreet herbs ; cover them with water, then tie a paper over the 
pan, and set it in an oven for three hours. _ "When cold, take o&' 
the fat very nicely ; cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a 
half square, remove the bones and coarse parts, and then put the 
rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mush- 
room ketchup, half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, a little 
mushroom powder, and the jelly of the meat. Yvlien hot, if it 
wants any more seasoning, add some ; and serve with hard eggs, 
forcemeat balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of S03'. 

This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent. 

Another.— Stew a pomid and a half of scrag of mutton, with 
from three pints of water to a quart : then set the broth on, with 
a calf's-foot ancl a cow-heel, cover the stew-pan tight, and simmer 
till you can get olFthe meat from the bones in proper bits. Set it 
on again with the broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine, or 
sherry, a large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne paper, a bit 
of lemon-peel, two anchovies, some sweet herbs, eighteen oysters 
cut into pieces, and then chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, a little 



66 SWEETBREADS— KIDNEYS— rOllK. 

nutmeg, and the liquor of the oysters. Cover it tight, and simmer 
three quarters of an hour. Serve \^■ith forcemeat balls, and hard 
eggs in the tureen. 

An excellent and very cheap mock turtle may be made of two or 
three cow-heels baked with two pounds and a half of gravy beef, 
herbs, Sec, as above with cow-heels and veaL 

Calf's Liver.— Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boiV 
nicely : rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. 

Calf's Liver Eoasted. — AVash and wipe it ; then cut a long 
liole in it, and s tuft' it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, 
herbs, a good deal of fjit bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, 
and an egg : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal- 
cawl, and roast it. 

Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant jelly. 

To Dress the Liver and Lights.— Half-bml an equal 
quantity of each, then cut them in middling-sized mince, put to it 
a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flourj' 
salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. 

Sweet-breads.— Half boil them, and stew them in a white 
gravy ; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper.' 

Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. 

Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, herbs, and 
seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve with but- 
ter, and mushroom ketchup or gravy. '* 

Sweet-breads Roasted.— Parboil two large ones ; when cold> 
lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For 
sauce, plain butter, and mushroom ketchup. 

Sweet-bread Kagout.— Cut them about the size of a walnut, 
wash and dry them, and fry them of a fine brown ; pour to them 
a good gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either 
mushrooms, or mushroom ketchup : strain, and thicken with but- 
ter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mush- 
rooms. 

Kidneys. — Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a 
little leek or onion, pepper, and salt ; roll it up with an egg into; 
balls, and fry them. ' 

Calf's heart, stufl* and roast as a beef's heart, or sliced, make 
it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. •' 

PORK, &c. — Bacon hogs, and porkers are differently cut up. 

Hogs are kept to a large size ; the chine (or backbone) is cut 
down each side, the whole length, and is a prime part either boiled' 
or roasted. 

The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut 
out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a 
large spare-rib ; which is usually divided into two, one sweet-bone 
and a blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside ; and contains a 
fore leg, and a ham ; which last is the hind-leg, but if left with the 
bacon, is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog's lard., 
is the inner fat of the bacon hog. /J 

Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as bacon. 

Porkers are not so old as hogs : their flesh is whiter and less^ 



KOAST LEG OF rORK— LOIN AND NECK OF TOliK. 57 

ricli, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. Tlie 
fore-quarter has tlie spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the 
rc-rib and griskhi. The hind has the leg and the loin. 
I !ic feet of ])ork make various good dishes, and should be cut 
>_'u before the legs are cured. Observe the same of tlie ears. 

The bacon hog is sometimes scalded to take oif the hair, and 
sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. 

To Roast a Leg of Pork.— Choose a small leg of fine young 
jvrk; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife: and fill the 
-]iace with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. 
A\'lien half-done, score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than 
tho outer rind. 

Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. 

To Boil a Leg of Pork.— Salt it eight or ten daj^s : when it 
I is to be dressed, weigh it, let it lie half an hour in cold water to 
i make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and 
half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it 
boils, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save some of 
it to make peas soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured ; 
which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a 
fine grain. 

Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 

Loin and Neck of Pork.— Roast them. Cat the skin of 
the loin across, at distances of half an inch, with a sharp pen- 
knife. 

Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. — Put them into pickle, or 
salt the shoulder as a leg : when very nice, they may be roasted, 

RoUed Neck of Pork.— Bone it ; put a forcemeat of chopped 
sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three 
berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as 
you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. 

,. Spring, or Forehand of Pork.— Cut out the bone ; sprinkle 
salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside ; but first warm a 
little butter to baste it, and then flour it : roll the pork tight, and 
tie it ; then roast by a hanging jack. About two hours will 
doit. 

_ Spare-rib should be basted with a very little butter and a 
little flour, and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled. Apple 
sauce and potatoes, as for roasted pork. 

Pork Griskin is usually very hard ; the best way to prevent 
this is, to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it 
boU up ; then instantly take it off", and put it into a Dutch oven ; 
a very few minutes will do it. Eemember to rub butter over it, 
and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. 

Blade-bone of Pork is taken from the bacon hog : the less 

meat left on it in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and 

■when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, 

and a tea-spoonful of mustard : and serve it covered, quickly. 

This is a Somersetshire dish. 

To Dress Pork as Lamb.— Kill a young pig of four or five 
months old j cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do 



58 rOllK STEAKS—SAUSAGES— SUCKING TIG. 

lamb, and truss the slianlc close. The other parts will malce deli 
cato picliled pork : or steaks, pies, &c. 

Pork Steaks. — Cab tliem from a loin or neck, and of raicl 
dliiig thlfkiicss ; pepper and broil them, turning them often : 
'»'. hen nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serv( 
the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. 

To Pickle Pork. — The quantities proportioned to the micl 
dliiiiis of a pretty larp:e ho.cr, the hams and shoulders being cut oH 

]\Iix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound ci 
coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt: 
sprinkle the pork willi salt, and drain it twenty-four hours : thee 
rub V, ith the above ; p;ick the pieces tight in a small deep tub; 
jilling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles od 
t'.ie pork to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which the sail 
will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for twc 
years. 

Sausages. — Chop fat and lean of pork together ; season it witl 
.«iage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries o 
idispice; half fill hogs' guts that have been soaked and made ex 
t rcmely clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely 
covered : and so rolled and dusted with a very little ilour before 
it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage, or mashed potatoes pu 
in a form, brown vrith salamander, and garnish with the above 
they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, or the;; 
M'iJl burst, 

An excellent Sausage to eat Cold.— Season fat and lear 
pork, with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all ir 
fine powder, and rub into the meat : tlie sixth day cut it smal 
and mix with it some shred slialot or garlic, as fine as possible 
Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soake( 
MT-ll, and lill it with the above stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hanj 
it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or tw* 
of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it without boiling 
but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in difFeren 
places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. 

Spadbury's Oxford Sausages. — Chop a pound and a hal 
of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; ad( 
three quarters of a pound of beef-suet ; mince and mix them 
steep the crumb of a penny loaf in water, and mix it with th< 
meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. 

To Scald a Sucking Pig. — The moment the pig is killed 
put it into cold water for a few minutes, then rub it over with s 
little resin beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scald 
ing water half a minute ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull of 
the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off, pu 
it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water 
and then in two or three cold water.% that no flavour of the resii 
may remain. Take off ail the feet at the first joint; make a sli 
down the belly, and take out the entrails ; put the liver, heart anc 
lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry i 
thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. 



IIOASTEB STTCKIXG PIG— PETTITOES. o9 

To Roast a Sucking Pig.— If you can get ii wlicn jiist 
killed, tliis is of great advantage. Let it be scalded, wliioh tlie 
dealers usually do ; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and 
pepper into the bell.y, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs 
back, or the under part will not crisp. 

Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry, then hare ready some 
butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. 
Dredge ns much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it 
again till ready to serve ; then scrape ofi^ the flour very carefully 
with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take 
off the head while at the fire ; take out the brains and mix them 
with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up, and 
without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay 
it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you 
can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that 
has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has 
been split dovrn the back, and garnished with the ears and the 
two jaws ; take off the upper part of the Jiead down to the 
snout. 

In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small ; the head only 
being cut off to garnish as above. 

Pettitoes.— Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small 
quantity of water, yery gently ; then cut the meat fine and 
simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet 
are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a 
spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper ; give it a boil up, 
pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the 
mince. 

To make excellent Meat of a Hog's Head.— Split the 
head, and take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprmkleit 
with common salt for a day ; then drain it : salt it well with salt 
and saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into a small 
quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boil till all the 
bones will come out ; remove them, and chop the head as quick as 
possible ; but first skin the toDgue and take the skin carefully off 
the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt and a 
little mace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, 
press the cut head in, and put the other skin over ; press it down. 
AVhen cold it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too 
fat, you may put some lean pork, to be prepared the same way. 
Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a 
pickle to keep it. 

'j?o Roast Porker's Head.— Choose a fine j'oung head, 
clean it well and put bread and sage as for pig ; sew it up tight, 
and on a string or hanging-jack roast it as a pig, and serve with 
the same sauce. 

To Prepare Pig's Cheek for Boiling.— Cut off the snout, 
and clean the head ; divide it, take out the eyes and tiie brains ; 
sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. 
Sa.lt it with common salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days 
if it be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed 



60 COLLARED TIG's HEAL— DRIED HOg's CHEEKS, 

with peas j and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all 
is tender. 

To Collar Pig's Head.— Scour the head and ears nicely; 
take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and tlie brain ; 
laj^ it into water one night ; then drain, salt it extremely well with 
common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough 
to take out the bones, then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick 
end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other to 
make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white 
pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and, if you approve, put the 
pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two 
cow-heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil till 
quite tender, then put a good weight upon it, and do not take off 
the covering till cold. 

If you choose it to be more like brawn salt it longer, and let the 
proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of 
lean pork ; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. 

This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and ^ ater 
boiled with vinegar, and is a very convenient thing to have in the 
house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it, either with or without 
butter. 

To Dry Hog's Cheeks.— Cut out the snout, remove the 
brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the 
cbawl a good shape : rub it well with salt ; next day take away 
the brine, and salt it again the following day : cover the head with 
half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of baj^ salt, a little common 
salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often 
turned ; after ten days, smoke it for a week like bacon. 

To Force Hog's Ears.— Parboil two pair of ears, or take 
some that have been soused; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, 
some sage, parslej-, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the 
yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and 
stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine 
colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them : make ready hali 
a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfula 
cf made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion 
whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears intc 
a stew-pan, and cover it close ; stew it gently for half an hour, 
shaking the pan often. AVhen done enough, take out the onion, 
place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 
If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added 
to the above. 

Different ways of Dressing Pig's Feet and Ears.— 
Clean carefully and soak some hours, and boil them tender; then 
take them out ; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some oi 
the water, and aa hen cold put it over them. When they are to be 
dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears ; fry, and 
serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be eithei 
done in batter or only floured. 

Pig's Feet and Ears Fricasseed.— Put no vinegar intc 



riG S HARSLET— MOCK BRAWN— BLACK PUDDINGS. 61 

tlic piclclo, if to be dressed with cream. Cut tke feet and ears into 

neat bits, and boil them in a Httle milk ; then pour that from them, 

■ and simmer in a little veal broth, Avith a bit of onion, mace, and 

I lemon peel. Before you servo add a little cream, flour, butter, 

; and salt. 

, Jelly of Pig's Feet and Ears.— Clean and prepare as in 
' the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water 
i till every bone can be taken out ; throw in half a handful of 
j chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, 
' and mace, in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then 
pour the whole into a melon-form. 

; Pig's Harslet.— Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and 
I fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to 
: make it tender ; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion 
: shred fine ; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it up tight 
with a needle and thread. Eoast it on a hanging-jack, or hy sl 
string. 

Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. 

Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, just 
boiled up and put into the dish. 

Mock BraAvn.— Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender ; take the 
meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take 
cut the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll 
! it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very 
! tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold ; after which keep it 
in a sousing liquor, as is directed in the next article. 

Souse for Brawn, and for Pig's Feet and Ears.— Boil 
i a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of 
rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, 
for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. 

To make Black Puddings. — The blood must bo stirred 
with salt tiU cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of 
whole grits, to soak one night ; and soak the crumb of a quartern 
loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In 
•the meantime prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping 
with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop 
fine a little winter-savourj^ and thyme, a good quantity of penny- 
royal, pepx)er, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and 
nutmeg : mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs 
well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all 
1 Tip with the seasoning ; when well mixed, have read^- some hog's 
I fat cut into large bits ; and as you fill the skins, put it in at 
' proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled, and boil in a large 
kettle, pricking them as the}' swell, or they will burst. ^"Slien 
boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up 
in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in 
I water, wipe, and put them into a Dutch oven. 
, If there are not skins enough, put the stufiing into basons, and 
i! boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when used. 
v.w Another way. — Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as 



62 WHITE HOa'S rUDDINGS— TO CUEE HAMS. 

mucli bolling-liot milk as will swell tliem and leave half a pint of 
liquid. Chop a good quantity of pennyro^-al, some savoury and 
thyme ; salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix tlie 
above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; 
then half fill the sldns, after they have been cleaned thoroughlj'-^f 
and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig asi 
will malce it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small: 
quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improve- 
ment. 

Another way. — Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as 
will swell them to the utmost ; tlien drain them and add a quart 
of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nut- 
meg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of 
the hog's leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten 
leaves of sage, a large handful of pennyroyal, and a sprig of thyme 
and knotted majoram, all minced fine ; eight eggs well beaten, 
jialf a pound of bread-crumbs that have been scalded with a pint 
of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins ; which must first be 
cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked 
in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, 
boil and prick tliem with a clean fork to prevent their bursting. 
Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. 

White Hog's Puddings. — Yvlicn the skins have been soaked 
and cleaned as before directed, rinse and soak them all night in 
rose-water, and put into them the following fiihng : Mix half a 
pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a 
pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound ol 
currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a 
quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two eggs, a little 
orange-flovA-er water, n little fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon- 
peel and citron sHced, and half fill the skins. To know whether 
sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. In boiling, much care 
must be taken to prevent the puddings from bursting. Prick them 
with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and water, i 
Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. j 

ilog's Lard should be carefully melted in a jar put into f 
kettle of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders that have beer 
extremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the better the larc 
keeps ; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a spri^ 
of rosemary when melting. 

This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be pre- 
pared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust. 

To Cure Hams. — Hang them a day or two ; then sprinkle 
them with a little salt, and drain them another day ; pound ai: 
ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, hah 
an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mis 
these well ; arid rub them into each ham every day for four days 
and turn it. If a small one, turn it every day for three weeks ; i: 
a large one. a week longer ; but do not rub after four days 
Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days 

Another way.— Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and wel 



TO CITIIE HA.MS— TO MAKE A PICKLE. 63 

f 3d ; hang it as above ; if large, put to it a pound of bay salt, four 
I unces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful 
( f common salt, all in tine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay 
; lie rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. 
i laste it as often as you can with the pickle, the more the better. 
Keep it four weeks. 'turning it everyday. Drain it, and throw 
i ran over it ; then hang it in a chinmey where wood is burned, 
I nd turn it sometimes for ten days. 

j Another way. — Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as 
i bove : then rub it every day with the following in jfine powder : 
I alf a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay salt, two 
{ unces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a 
I ound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, 
( )r three weelcs. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe 
I . quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. 
I Another way that gives it a high flavour.— When the 
f reather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounceof 
i altpetre, with a quarter of a pound of baj^ salt, the same quantity 
1 ^f common salt, and also of coarse sugar, ancl a quart of strong 
1 loer ; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the 
; am ; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An 
I uuce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine 
Miow der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it 
I rith bran when wiped, and smoke it from three to four weeks, as 
J ou approve : the latter will make it harder and give it more of 
; '.lie flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse 
\ rappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. 

A method of giving a still higher flavour.— Sprinkle the 

lam with salt, after it has hung two or three days ; let it drain ; 

nake a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an 

)unce of coriander seeds, two ounces of juniper berries, an ounce 

)f pepper, the same quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half 

m ounce of sal-pruuel, a handful of common salt, and a head of 

: dialot, ail pounded or cut fine. Boil these all together a few 

jninutes, and pour them over the ham : this cnaantity is for one of 

jjien pounds. Kub and turn it every day, for a fortnight ; then sew 

■'It up in a thin linen bag, and smoke it three weeks. Take care to 

Irain it from the pickle, and rub it in bran before drying. 
J I To make a Pickle that will keep for years, ibr hams, 
1 tongues, or beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel 
ii pf them. To two gallons of spring water put two pounds of 
roarse sugar, two pounds of bay and two pounds and a half of 
1 jiommon salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earthen 
Ijlazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that v.ill 
lit close. Keep the beef or hams a? long- as they will bear, before 
: iou put them into the pickle ; and sprinkle them v»"ith coarse 
; mgar in a pan, from which they must drain. Hub the hams, &c., 
; .veil with the pickle, and pack them in close ; putting as much as 
i :he pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle 
1 3 not to be boiled at first. A small ham msLy lie fourteen da3^s, a 
;; iirge one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in propor- 

I 



G4 OBSERVATIONS OX KKEriNG AKD DRESSING MUTTON. 

tion to its size. They will eat well out of the pickle without d^j 
ing. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained o^ 
the pan, and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge an 
dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and th« 
should be only a little sawdust and wet straw burnt to do this 
but if put into a baker's chimnej^ sew them in coarse cloth, an 
hang them a week. 

To Dress Hams.— If long hung, pub the ham into water 
night, and let it lie either in a hole dug in the eartli, or on dam 
stones sprinkled Avith water two or three days, to mellow, cove: 
ing it with a heavy tub to keep vermin from it. "Wash well, an 
put it into a boiler with plenty of water ; let it simmer four, fiv 
or six hours, according to the size. When done enough, if befoi 
the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and kee 
the dish hot over boiling water. Take off the skin, and stre 
raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the ski 
as whole as possible to keep over the ham when cold, which \\i 
prevent its drying. 

Excellent Bacon. — Divide the hog, and take the chine ou< 
it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be pr 
served better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the baex: 
six days, then drain it irom the first pickle : mix as much salt i 
you judge proper with eight ounces of ba}' salt, three ounces « 
saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but iirst ci 
off the hams, liub the salts well in, and turn it every day for 
month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dry without, I: 
banning in the kitchen, not near the fire. 

The Manner of Curing Wiltshire Bacon. — Sprink 
each iiitch with salt, and let the blood drain ofi* for twenty-foi 
hours : then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the san 
ciuantity of bay salt, not quite so much as half a pound of saltpetr 
and a pound of common salt; and rub this v.ell on the baco 
turning it every day for a month : then hang it to dry, and afte 
wards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sulScient f< 
the whole hog. 

MUTTON.— Observations on Keeping and Dressin 
Mutton.— Take away the pipe that runs along the bone oftl 
inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great time, ru 
the part close round the tail with salt, after first cutting oi 
the kernel. ' 

The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be take 
out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and ril 
bones should be wiped every day ; and the bloody part of tl 
neck be cut off, to preserve it. The brisket changes first in thi 
breast ; and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little sal ! 
should the weather be hot. 

Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as sod 
as brought in ; then wipe dry. ^• 

Eor roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind 
quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for, whateY< 



LEG OF MUTTON— UArNCn OF MT7TT0N. 65 

fashion may authorize, putrid juices ought not to be taken into 
the stomach. 

Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung 
long. 

Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat of what 
is roasted. 

Leg of Mutton. — If roasted, serve with onion or currant- 
jelly sauce ; if boiled, with caper sauce and vegetables. 

Neck of Mutton is particularly useful, as so many dishes 
may be made of it ; but it is not advantageous for the family. 
The hones should be cut short, which the butchers Avill not do 
unless particularly desired. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with tur- 
nips ; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. 

The scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a small quantity 
of water, some small onions, a few peppercorns and a little rice, 
and served together. 

^yhen a neck is to be boded to look particularly nice, saw down 
the chine bone, strip the ribs half-way down, and chop off the ends 
i of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken off 
till boiled, and then the fat will look the whiter. 

When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton than it is 
agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an uncommonly good 
euet pudding, or crust for a meat-pie if cut very fine. 

Shoulder of Mutton Roasted.— Serve with onion sauce. 
The blade-bone may be broiled. 

To Dress Haunch of Mutton.— Keep it as long as it can 
be preserved sweet by the different modes : let it be washed with 
T^arm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to. be 
dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should have a 
bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong 
paper, and fold the haunch in : set it at a great distance from the 
fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste ; do not take it off 
till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, and then 
baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before 
j'ou take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. 

A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old 
mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but 
salt: brown it with a little biu-nt sugar, and send it up in the 
dish ; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat ; for 
'though long at the fire, the distance and covering wiU prevent its 
'roasting out. 
,<i Serve with currant-iell y sauce. 

To Roast a Saddle of Mutton.— Let it be well kept first. 
Raise the skin, and then skewer iton again ; take it off a quarter of 
anhourbeforeseiwing, sprinkle it with some salt, basteit, and dredge 
it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back 
on each side. The joint may be large or small accordmg to the 
company ; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it re- 
quires a high and strong fire. ^ 



66 FILLET OP MUTTON BEAISED— HASHED MUTTON. 

Fillet of Mutton Braised.— Take off the cliump end of tlie 
loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for 
venison ; roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. 
Have ready some Trench beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; 
and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in 
gravj--, and lay them on the dish m ith the meat over them. 

Harrico.^^Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best 
end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; flour and fry them in their 
own fat of a fine hght brown, but not enough for eating. Then 
put them into a dish while you frj- the carrots, turnips, and onions; 
the carrots and turnips in dice, the onions sliced : but they must 
only be warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. Then 
lay the steaks at the bottom of the stew-pan, the vegetables over 
them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them; 
give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the 
fire to simmer gently till tender, in three or four hours skim 
them; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. 

To Hash Mutton.— Cut thin sHces of dressed mutton, fat and 
lean ; flour them ; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three 
spoonfuls of water ; add to it some gravy and meat seasoned, and 
make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead oi 
onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jell}'", and half a glass of port 
wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine^ 

Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. 

To Boil Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters.— Hang it 
some days, then salt it well for two days, bone it, and spriukleil 
with pepper and a bit of mace pounded : lay some oysters over it 
and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stesv it in a small quantitj 
of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. 

Have ready a little good grav5% and some oysters stewed in it 
thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the rnuttor 
■when the tape is taken off. The stew-pan should be kept clos( 
covered. 

Breast of Mutton.— Cut off the superfluous fat, and roas 
and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, cover^c 
with chopped parsle3^ Or half boil and then grill it before the fire 
in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve witl 
caper sauce. Or, if boned, take off some of the fat, and cover i 
•with bread, herbs, and seasoning : then roll and boil : and serv( 
with chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. 

Loin of Mutton roasted ; if cut lengthways as a saddle, som< 
think it eats better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. 

To Roll Loin of Mutton.— Hang the mutton till tender 
bone it ; and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg 
and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. JSText day prepare i 
stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing 
roll it up tight, and tie it. Half-bake it in a slow oven ; let it gron 
cold ; take ofl' the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; floffl 
the meat, and put it in likewise ; stew it till almost ready : anc 
add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovj^, and a littk 
lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving : serve it in the grav^ 



3I[JTT0N UA?r— 3IUTT0X STEAKS MAIXTEXOX. G7 

and with jelly-Sciiice. A few fresh mushrooms are a great im- 
provement ; hut if to cat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon 
pit'lde. 

Mutton Ham.— Choose a fine fresh leg of wether-mutton, of 
twelve or fourteen pounds weight ; let it be cut ham-shane, and 
hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan half a pound'of bay 
pa it, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a 
p imd of coarse sugar, all in powder ; mix and make it quite hot ; 
t\ic-n rub it well mto the ham. Let it be turn&d in the liquor 
every day ; at the end of four days put two ounces more of com- 
mon salt ; m twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in 
y ood-smoke a week. It is to be used in sHces with stewed cab- 
bcu:e, mashed potatoes or eggs. 

Mutton Collops.— Take a loin of mutton that has been well 
hung ; and cut from the part next the leg, some collops very thin, 
lake out the smews. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and 
ma^-e ; and strew over tliem shred parsley, thyme, and two or 
three shalots : fry them in butter till half done ; add half a pint 
ot gravy, a little juice of lemon, a piece of butter rubbed in flour, 
and simmer the whole very gently five mmutes. They should be 
served immediately, or they will be hard. 

¥V-^^?? Cutlets in the Portuguese Way.— Cut the chops ; 
and half.fry them with sHced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, 
and two bay leaves ; season with pepper and salt : then lay a 
torcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist 
tlie paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through, 
liroil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Eobart; or, as the sea- 
soning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. 

Mutton Steaks should' be cut from a loin or neck that has 
hung; if a neck, the bones should not be long. They should be 
broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned : 
take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and 
serve hot and hot the moment they are done. 

Steaks of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cu.cumbers,— Quarter 
cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt 
and poui' ymegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine brown, and 
put them into a stew-pan ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the 
steaks ; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt ; pour hot water 
or weak broth on them ; stew and skim well. 

Mutton Steaks Maintenon.— Half-fry, strew them while hot 

vitji herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper imme- 

■^y, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not 

■d : rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. 

^Mutton Sausages.— Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg 

ci mutton that has been either roasted or boiled; chop it ex'^ 

Lremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg : 

add to it SIX ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, 

and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small ; a quarter of a pound 

3i grated bread, some of the anchovy Hquour, and the yolks and 

t^ hites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into 

I little pot ; and use it by rolling it into balls or sausage-shape 

£2 



68 TO DRESS MUTTON ETJMPS AND KIDNEYS. 

and fryino:. If approved, a little slialot may be added, or garlicff 
•which is a great improvement. ■'> 

To Dress Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.— Stew sk rumps 
in some good mutton-gravy half an hour ; then take them up, and 
let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat ; and put 
into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck -with cloves, and 
a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. AVash the rumps 
■with yolks of eggs well beaten ; and strew over them crumbs of 
bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and tliyme, and 
grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine brown. While the 
rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a 
Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must bo 
drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared 
likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the 
dish ; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards 
the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs 
cut in half, the white being left on ; or with different coloured 
pickles. 

An excellent Hotch Potch.— Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, 
in a very little water, with a beef or ham-bone. While these are 
doing, fiy some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : 
three quarters of an hour before dinner, put the steaks into a stew- 
pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and serve all 
together in a tureen. 

Another. — Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed 
with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butter rolled in 
flour. 

Mutton Kebobbed.— Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, 
and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint 
it at every bone : mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and 
pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of three 
eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place 
the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie 
them and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick 
fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter 
and the liquor that comes from the meat ; but throw some more 
of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and 
lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that 
in the dish ; and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub 
down a tea-spoonful of flour with it ; give this a boil, and pour it 
over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the 
meat hot till the gravy is quite read}-. 

China Chilo. — Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mut- 
ton, or leg, and some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint 
of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four 
spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, 
into a stew-pan closely covered ; simmer two hours, and serve in 
the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, 
add a little. 

" LAMB.— Leg of Lamb should be boiled in n cloth to look at 
white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served round, gaar- 



rOEE-QUAETEE OF LAMB— HOTJSE LAMB STEAKS. 69 

iiislied with dried or fried parslej^ ; spinacli to eat with it ; or) 
dics'?ed separate]}^ or roasted. 

Fore Quarter of Lamb.— Eoast it either whole, or in sepa- 
r;it t' parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled 
over it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. 

Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers. — Cut off the chine-bone 
u-om the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When 
tli'^ bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill ; and then 
l:iy it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Forced, with Sorrel Sauce.— Bone 
a .^lioulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat : braise it two 
li'iirs over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it ; or it may be glazed 
only, and not braised. 

The method for both, see page 75. Serve with sorrel sauce 
under the lamb. 

Lam.b Steaks. — Fry them of a beautiful brown : when served, 
throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and 
crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour will 
I be given under the head of Vegetables. 

Mutton or Lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered papers, 
either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and 
eat well. 

Sauce for them, called Sauce Eobart, will be found in the list of 
Sauces. 

House Lamb Steaks, White.— Stew them in milk and 
water till very tender, with a bit of lemon peel, a little salt, some 
pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal gravy, and put the 
steaks into it : mix some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and 
the least bit of flour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and 
let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white 
mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is Yerj dear. 

House Lamb Steaks, Brown. — Season them with pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and chopped parsley ; but dip 
them first into egg ; fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy 
with a bit of flour and butter ; and add to it a spoonfid of port 
wine, and some oysters : boil it up, and then put in the steaks 
iwarm : let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, 
or eggs, if you like. 

■ Lamb Cutlets with Spinach.— Cut the steaks from the loin, 
and fry them : the spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish 
-fii'st, and then the cutlets round it, 

Lamb's Head and Hinge.— This part is best from a house 

1 lamb ; but any, if soaked m cold water, will be white. Boil the 

'■ head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights 

three parts boiled and cut small ; stew them in a little of the water 

in which thev were boiled, season and tliicken with flour and 

butter, and serve the mint-e round the head. 

Lamb's Fry.— Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a 
good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. 

Lamb's Sweetbreads.— Blanch them, and put them a little 
while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a 



70 TO CHOOSE POTTLTRY, GAME, ETC. 

lacUeful of brotli, some pepper and salt, a small Luncli of small 
onions, and a blade of mace ; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and 
stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in 
cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. 
Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Do not let 
it boil after the cream is in, but make it hot, and stir it well all 
the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French 
beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. 

Fricasseed ise^mbstones.— Skin and wash, then dry and 
flour them : fry of a beautiful brown in hog's lard. Lay them on 
a sieve before the fire till 3* ou have made the following sauce : 
Thicken almost half a pint of veal gravy with a bit of flour and 
butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a grate of nut- 
meg, and the yolk of an cgs beaten well in two large spoonfuls of 
thick cream. Vat this over the fire, and stir it y,-e\l till it is hot, 
and looks vrhite ; but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Then 
put in it the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minnte or 
two. Serve in a very hot dish and cover. 

Fricassee of i-iambstones and Sweetbreads, another 
way. — Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled and 
sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads, if very thick, cut them in 
two. Fry altogether, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow 
brown. Pour the butter off; and add a pint of good gravy, some 
asparagus tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of wliite vvine. Simmer 
ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy 
back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boil- 
ing. Garnish with lemon. 

A very nice Dish.— Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut 
into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks 
almost round. Egg, then strew with crumbs, herbs, and season- 
ing ; fry them of the finest brown ; mash some potatoes with a 
little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish 
raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on an other with 
the small bone upvrard, all round the potatoes. 

Pies of the diflerent meats are directed under the general head 
of fSavoury Pies. 



POULTHY, GAME, &c. 

To Choose Poultry, Game, d-c. 

A Turkey-cock if young, it has a smooth, black leg, with a 
short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple 
and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. 

Hen-turkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her legs 
will be red and tough. 

Fowls.— If a cock is young, his spurs wiU be short : but take 
care to see that they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick 



TO CSOOBE rOULTEY, GAME, ETC. 7l 

often practised. If fresli, tlio vent will be close and dark. Pul- 
lets are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of 
ctig; if old liens, their combs and legs will be rough; if young, 
tJiey will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and 
large rump, there is a particular fat at his breast, and the 
comb is very pale. Black-legged fowls are most moist, if for 
roastiug. 

Geese. — The bill and feet of a young one will be yellow, and 
there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red : 
if fresh, the feet will be pliable ; if stale, dry and stiff. Geese 
are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should 
be scalded : a stubble-goose should be picked dry. 

Ducks. — Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet, 
and by their being hard and thick en the breast and beliy. The 
feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow ; a 
wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They 
should be i^icked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. 

Pigeons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby about 
the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. The feet 
shonld be supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones 
are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons ; 
they should be fat and tender ; but many are deceived in their 
size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small 
pigeon. 

The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh dark-coloured : if pro- 
perly kept and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve 
with a good gravy. 

Plovers. — Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows 
they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as 
other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet 
a long time. There are three sorts : — The grey, green, and bastard 
plover, or lapwing. 

Hare or Rabbit. — If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears 
dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old; but if the claws 
are smooth and sharp, the ears easilj^ tear, and the cleft in the lip 
•is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the 
body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a 
good while by proper care : and are best when rather beginning to 
turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a 
real leveret, you should look for a knob or smaU bone near the 
foot on it_s fore leg ; if there is none it is a hare. 

Partridges. — They are in high season in autumn. If young • 
the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if fresh, the 
vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stale. 

Pheasants. — The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the 
lien is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs ; 
but if old, they are long and sharp. 

Directions for Dressing Poultry and Game. — All 
poultry should bo very carefully picked, every plug removed, 
and the hair nicely singed with white paper. 
; The cock must be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not 



72 rOULTEY—PvOAST TUEKET— BOILED TUEKEY. 

break the gall bag, for no wasliing m ill take off tlie bitter 
where it has toui'hcd. ^ 5 

In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk fire. 
Let them be done of a fine j^ellow brown, but leave the gravy in ; 
the fine flavour is lost if done too much. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating 
througli than others. All sorts should be continually basted ; 
that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine 
colour. . , 

A large fowl will take three-quarters of an hour : a middling 
one half-an-hour ; and a very small one, or a chicken, twenty 
minutes, The fire must be very quick and clear before any 
fowls are put down. A capon will take from thirty to thirty-five 
minutes ; a goose an hour ; w ild ducks a quarter of an hour ; 
pheasants, twenty minutes ; a small turkey stufled, an hour and a 
quarter; turkey poults, twenty minutes; grouse a quarter of an 
hour ; quails, ten minutes ; and partridges, from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part 
requires most heat. 

Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turning. Hares and 
rabbits must be well attended to : and the extremities brought to 
the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. 

POULTRY.— To Boil Turkey.— Make a stuffing of bread, 
herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters or an 
anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg ; put this into the 
crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to 
make it very white. Have readj^ a fine oyster sauce made rich 
with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and 
pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon sauce. Hen birds are 
best for boiling, and should be young. 

To Roast Turkey.— The sincAvs of the legs should be drawn, 
whichever w^ay it is dressed. The head should be twisted under 
the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor 
let the gall touch it. 

Put a stuffing of sausage meat ; or if sausages are to be served 
in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to 
the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly 
to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little 
strip of paper should be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorch- 
ing while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serre 
with grav3'- in the dish, and x^lenty of bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuflSng of 
sausage meat. 

Pulled Turkey. — Divide the meat of the breast by pulling 
instead of cutting : then warm it in a spoonful or two of white 
gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour 
and butter ; do not boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, 
and broiled, and put into the dish T^ ith the above round it. Cold 
chicken docs as ^\■e\\. 

To Boil Fowl. — For boihng choose those that are not black- 
legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Plour 



TIITJSSING FOR KOASTIKG. 



73 




74 TO BOIL FOWLS WITH RICE— DAYENPOET FOWLS 

them, and put them iuto boiling water. — See time of dressing, 
pafl:c 72. 

Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery 
sauce. 

If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served to eat 
with them ; as likewise greens. 

To Boil Fowl with. Rice.— Stew the fowl very slowly in 
some clear mutton broth well skimmed ; and seasoned with 
onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it 
is ready put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and 
soaked. Simmer tiU tender ; then strain it from the broth and 
put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it 
in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. 
The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor 
the fowl is done with the better. Grav}-, or parsley and butteic 
for sauce. 

Fowls Roasted.— Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or gar- 
nished with sausages and scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed in the 
crop with sausage meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and 
with bread sauce. 

The head should be turned under the wing, as a tm^key. 

Fowls Broiled.— Split them down.the back ; pepper, salt, and 
broil. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Another way.— Cut a large fov>i into four quarters, put 
them on a bird spit, and tie that on another spit, and half- 
roast ; or half-roast the vs'hole fowl, and finish either on the 
gridiron, which -^-ill make it less dry than if wholly broiled. 
The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the 
back after. 

Davenport Fowls. — Hang young fowls a night : take the 
livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very 
small, with half a handfid of young clary, an anchovy to each 
fov.-l, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with 
pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with 
this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the 
M-atcr may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost 
done : then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan, with 
butter enough to brown them. Serve them with fine melted 
butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish. 

A Nice Way to Dress a Fowl for a SmaU Dish.— Bone, 
singe, and wash a young fowl : make a forcemeat of four ounces 
of veal, two ounces of scraped lean of ham, two ounces of fat 
bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two 
ounces of beef suet, a tea-spoonful of lemon i^eel minced quite 
fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little Ca.yenne. Beat 
all in a mortar, with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and 
whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the 
legs and ^^■ings inwards ; tie the neck and rump close. Stew the 
fowl in a white gravy : when it is done through and tender, 
add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and flour ; 



rjiitc p6 
:oe]) tli€ 



TEICASSEE OP CHICKEIS^S— TO PULL CHICKENS. iO 

ivc it one boil, and serve; the last thing, add the squeeze of a 
'limn. 

To Force Fowl, &c., is to stuff any part with forcemeat, 
11(1 it is put usually between the skin and the flesh. 

To Braise, is to put meat into a stew-pan covered with fat 
aron. then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, caiTots if to 
I irown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and 

TOO stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies). The 
a >n must be covered with paper, and the lid of the pan must bo 
!Ui down close. Set it on a slow stove, and according to what it 
^. it will require two or three hours. The meat is then to be 
;l:i.'n out ; and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil 
ery quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot ; and if 
;)r(led, put into the oven for a few minutes ; and then put the 
■lly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, 
iiti man.y made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. 
lie glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow brown, and it is 

-^1 to put it on with a nice brush. 

Fricassee of Chickens. — Boil rather more than half, in a 
mi\]\ quantity of water : let them cool : then cut up ; and put to 
irnraer in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, 

id a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some 
epper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite tender, 
em hot while you thicken the sauce in the following man- 
ic]- : — Strain it off, and put it back into the saucepan with a little 
alt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter : give it one 
loil ; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, 
■ud half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, but do not 
Gi it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg. 

The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, 
eet. small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are called the 
rimmings of the fowl. 

To Pull Chickens.— Take off the skin : and pull the flesh 
iT the bone of a cold fowl in as large pieces as you can : dredge it 
\ ith flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter 
rem it: and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well seasoned, 
nd thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half 
- lemon. 

Another way.— Cut off the legs, and the whole back, of a 
Iressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all the white part 
uto little flakes free from skin, toss it up with a little cream 
hickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of 
■la J in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. 
'ut off the neck-end of the chicken, and broil the back and 
idesmen in one piece, and the tv.'O legs seasoned. Put the 
lasb in the middle, with the back on it ; and the two legs at 
he end. 

Chicken Currie. — Cut up the chicken raw, slice onions, and 
ry both in butter with great care, of a fine light brown ; or, if 
^ou use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay 
he joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan, with 



76 TO BBAISE CHICKENS— TO llOAST GOOSE. 

veal or mutton gravy, and a clore or two of garlic. Simrae 
till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve il 
rub smooth a spoonful or two of cume-powder, a spoonful of floui 
and an ounce of butter : and add this, with four large spoonfuls c 
cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeez 
in a little lemon. 

Slices of underdone veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c., make excelleu 
currie. 

A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For directions to d 
this, see the article Eice in the Index. 

Another, more easily made.— Cut up a chicken or youu 
rabbit : if chicken, take off the skin. Eoll each piece in a mixtur 
of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie powde. 
Slice two or three onions, and fry them in butter, of a ligl 
brown : then add the meat, and fry all together till the mef 
begins to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boiliu 
water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two c 
three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour befoi 
serving. 

If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will t 
better than water : but the currie is richer when made of fres 
meat. 

To Braise Chickens. — Bone them, and fill them with forc< 
meat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into 
stew-pan, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onion 
a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a gla; 
or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, an 
then white paper ; cover the whole close, and put them on 
slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the brais( 
and skim off the fat carefully : set it on to boil very quick to a glazi 
and do the chickens over with it with a brush. 

Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazinj 
put the chicken into an oven for a few minutes, to give a littl 
colour. 

Ducks Roasted. — Serve with a fine gravy ; and stuff on 
with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of buttei 
and pepper and salt ; let the other be unseasoned. 

To Boil Ducks.— Choose a fine fat duck, salt it two dayf 
then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but mel 
the butter with milk instead of water. 

To Stew Ducks. — Half-roast a duck ; put it into a stew-paj 
with a pint of beef gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small 
pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as line as possible I 
Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean ; then add near 
quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hou 
longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little flour, and give it op 
boil ; then serve in one dish. 

To Hash Ducks.— Cut a cold duck into joints, and warm il 
without boihnff, in gravy, and a glass of port wine. j 

To B-oast Croose.— After it is picked, the plugs of the feathef 
pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well wash'ei 



TltUSSIXG FOR ROASTING AND BOILING. 



77 




Eabbit, trussed— Country mode. 




78 TO STEW GIBLETS— riGEOXS 

and dried, and a seasoning put in of onioji, sage, and pepper an 
salt. Fasten it tiglit at tlie neclc: and rump, and then roast. Pc 
it first at a distance from tlie fire, and by degrees draw it nearei 
A slip of paper sliould be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste : 
very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper, and h 
careful to serve it before tlie breast falls, or it will be spoiled b 
coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the disl 
Gravy and apple sauce ; gooseberry sauce for a green goose. 

To Stew Giblets. — Do them as will be directed for gibL 
pie (under the head Pies); season them with salt and pepper aD 
a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one bo 
with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed m a tea-spooi 
ful of flour. 

Pigeons may be dressed in so many ways, that they are vei 
useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on the i 
being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird r 
quires so much washing. 

Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or mac 
into a pie ; in either case, care must be taken not to overdo ther 
which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up : 
gravy made ready, and forcemeat balls may be fried and adde 
instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef steal 
be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and covi 
each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them mois 
Season as usual, and put eggs. 

To Stew Pigeons. — Take care that they are quite fresh, ai 
carefully cropped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half i 
liour. In the meantime cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as 
for pickling) into water ; drain it, and then boil it in milk ai 
water ; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a ste\ 
pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them vreW wi; 
pepper and salt, and cover them with the renaainder of the ca 
bage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons a: 
tender; then put among them two or three spoonfuls of creai 
and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil i 
two, serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed rour 
them. _ 

Another way. — Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, eitn« 
stufted or not ; and seasoned high with spice and mushroon 
fresh and a little ketchup. 

To Broil Pigeons.— xifter cleaning, split the backs, pepp< 
and salt them and broil them very nicely; pour over them eitln 
stevred or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as h< 
as possible. 

Roast Pigeons' should be stuffed with parsley, either cut ( 
whole, and seasoned within. Serve %^ith parsley and butte 
Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. 

To Pickle Pigeons. — Bone them ; turn the inside out, an 
lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; the 
turn them again, and tic the neck and rump with thread. Pi 
them into boiling water, let them boil a minute or two to plump 



PIGEONS IN JELLY— TO POT PIGEONS. 79 

i:ake them out. and dry tkem well : then put them boiling hot into 

lie pickle, \\hich must be made of equal quantities of white wine 

nul white-wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced 

iiuLTcr and nutmeg, and two or three bay leaves. Y/hen it boils 

\]\ put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour 

,m11 do them; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then 

' ■ them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is 

'. tcike the ftit oiF from it, and put them in again. Keep them 

stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. 

I stead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks 

-gs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, 

all. and mace. 

Pigeons in Jelly. — Save some of the liquor in which a 

irkle of veal has been boiled; or boil a calf's or neat's foot; put 

:u'oth into a panMith a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, 

.0 white pepper, lemon peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the 

ii_e.>ns. Bake them, and let them stand to get cold. Season as 

. L like, before baking. When done take them out of the liquor, 

r them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by 

/'ng it with the whites of two eggs ; strain it thi'ough a thick 

^iotli dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must 

be perfectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and 

round them rough. 

The same, a beautiful Dish. — Pick two very nice pigeons, 
and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and 
cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but 
clip the nails close to the claws, lloast them of a very nice brown, 
and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle iuto the bill of each. 
Have ready a savoury jellj^ as before, and v.'ith it half- fill a bowl 
of a size that is proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be 
Berved in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no 
gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the 
jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so 
as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full 
Rtwenty-four hours before serving. 

I This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range 

lof a second course, or \^iien served with the jelly roughed large, it 

fiinakes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head 

.should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, 

! and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. 

h To Pot Pigeons. — Let them be quite fresh, clean them care- 

ij'fully, and season them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a 

iismall deep pan, for the smaller the surface and the closer the,y are 

■packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, 

: then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. When 

cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each ; 

and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. 

Observe that the butter should be pretty thick if they are to be 

kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into 

the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may 

be stufied with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and 



80 TO KEEP CA:UE. 

then they will eat excellently. If a liigh flavour is approved of, 
add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. 

Larks, and other Small Birds.— Draw, and spit tbem on 
a bird-spit : tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste 
gently with butter, and strew bread crumbs upon them till half- 
done ; brown and serve with fried crumbs round. 

GAME, &c.— To Keep Game, &c.— Game ought not to 
be thi'own away even when it has been kept a very long time ; for 
when it seems to be spoiled, it may often be made fit for eathig by 
nicely cleaning and washing with vinegar and water. If there is 
any danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them, then 
wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have ready 
a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by 
one, drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may 

Eass througTi them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then ^ 
ang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and saljy, ' 
the insides well Before roasting, wash them well. 

The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved thus. 
Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are 
never drawn; and pehaps the heat might make them worse, as 
the water could not pass through them; but they bear being 
high. 

Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat wiU preserve them 
from taint, and restore what is spoiling. 

Pheasants and Partridges. — Roast them as turkey, and 
serve with a fine gravy (into which put a small bit of garlic) and 
bread sauce, ^^^hen cold, they may be made into excellent patties, 
but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. For the 
manner of trussing a pheasant or partridge, see page 73. 

To Pot Partridge. — Clean them nicely; and season with 
mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Eub every 
part well ; then lay the breasts downwards in a pan, and pack the 
birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good Seal of butter on 
them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paper 
over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots,_ 
and cover them with butter. ' '■% 

A very Cheap Way of Potting Birds.— Prepar'o^them m 
directed in the last receipt ; and when baked and grown cold, cw 
them into proper pieces foi* helping, pack them close in a lar^ 
potting-pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. 
Cover them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted 
than when the birds are done whole. The butter that has 
covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for 
meat pies. 

To Clarify Butter for Potted Things.— Put it into a 
sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little 
water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts 
over the potted things : they will sink to the bottom. 

To Pot Moor Game. — Pick, singe, and wash the birds 
nicely : then dry them ; and season, inside and out, i^retty high, 
with pepper, mace, nutmeg, rilspice, and salt. Pack them in ai 



GllOUSE— WILD FOWL— WOODCOCKS. 81 

ysmall a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake 
n a very slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them 
from the grav}"-, and put one bird into each pot, which should just 
^t. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care 
bhat it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in 
1 basin set in a bowl of hot water. 

G-rouse. — Eoast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted 
mder the wing. The}^ must not be overdone. Serve with a rich 
ravy in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as 
vill be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used 
nstead of common gravy. 

To Roast Wild Fowl. — The flavour is best preserved 
vithout stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into 
ach. 

Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame ; they should 
)e served of a fine brown colour, and well frothed up. A rich 
5rown gravj' should be sent in the dish ; and when the breast 
cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of 
emon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the 
lavour. 

To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put 
m onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping-pan, and baste them 
or the first ten minutes with this : then take away the pan, and 
)aste constant!}^ with butter. 

Wild Ducks, Teale, Widgeon, Dun-Birds, &c., should 
)e taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and 
prinkle a little salt before they are taken up ; put a good gravy 
mder them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. 

Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails keep good several days, 
loast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only 
hould be eaten with them, as gravy takes off from the fine flavour. 
Che thigh and back are esteemed the most. 

RuflEs'and Reeves are skewered as quails : put bars of bacon 
)ver them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good 
H'avy in the dish. 

To Dress Plovers.— Eoast the green ones in the same way 
woodcocks and quails (see above), without drawing; and serve 

L a toastV Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with 
rravy, herbs, and spice. 4. '^ 

Plovers' Eggs are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten 
ninutes, and serve either hot or cijld on a napkin. 
; To Roast Ortolans.— Pick and singe, but do not draw them. 
jCie on a bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in 
Alices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of 
■he ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. 

Guinea and Pea Fowl eat much like pheasants. Dress 
; hem in the same way (see page 80). 
'. Hares, if properly taken care of, will keep a great time ; and 

ven when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in high per- 

ection, which if eaten when fresh killed they are not. As they arc 

sually paunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this ; but 

F 



82 BOAST HAEE— JUGGED HAEE— EABLITS. 

the liare keeps longer, and eats mucli better, if not opened for four 
or five days, or according to the weather. 

If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in, it should be wiped quite , 
dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep foi 
the stuffing. Eepeat this wiping every day ; mix pepper and ginger, 
and rub on the inside ; and put a large piece of cliarcoal into it 
Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keep- 
ing in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An 
old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It 
must also be well soaked. 

To Roast Hare. — After it is skinned, let it be extremely w^ 
washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water : and if old, laic 
it ; whicli will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar 
If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly wel 
washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stuffing int( 
the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till hal 
done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in thi 
neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fir< 
warm, v.iil remove it ; especially if you also nick the skin hep 
and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should b 
kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth 
rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce ; the gravy in th 
dish. For stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some Jat bacon, 
little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs c 
bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleane 
and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. 

For the manner of trussing a hare, see page 73. 

To Jug an Old Hare.— After cleaning and skinning, cut : 
up, and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and 
little nutmeg. Pat it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, 
bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase bone 
over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder and leather or stron 
paper ; and iDut it into a saucepan of water up to the neck, but n 
higher. Keep the water boiling five hours. AVhen it is to h 
served, boil the grav}^ up with a piece of butter and flour ; and 
the meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to boil. 

Broiled and Hashed Hare.— The flavour of broiled hai 
is particularly fine : the legs or wings must be seasoned first, ru 
with cold butter, and served very hot. The other parts, wanne 
with gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately. 

To Pot Hare, for which an old one does well, as likewise fc 
soup and pie. After seasoning, bake it with butter. When col 
take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If nc 
high enough, add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the fine; 
fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy thi 
came from the hare. When vrell mixed put it into small pot 
and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked i 
the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be pi 
over them. 

RABBITS may be eaten various ways, as follows : — 

Hoasted with stuffing and gravy, hke hare : or without stuffing 



I 



GE^^ERAI- DIRECTIONS EESPECTING SOUPS AND GEATIES. 83 

ritli sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, 
)cpper and salt ; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rab- 
)it for either roasting or boiling see page 77. 

Boiled and smothered with onion sauce ;' the butter to be 
Qelted with milk instead of water. 

Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver 
auce, this way also. 

Fricasseed, as before directed (page 75) for chickens. 

In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In tliis way they are 
•xcellent when young. 

Potted. 

To make a Rabbit Taste much like Hare.— Choose 
)ne that is young, but full grown ; hang it in the skin three or 
bur days ; then skin it, and lay it without Avashing, in a seasoning 
)f black pepper and allspice in very fine powder, a glass of port 
vine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 
brty hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the same 
;auce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. 

To Pot Rabbits.— Cut up two or three young but full-grown 
)ues, and take the leg-bones off at the thigh ; pack them as close 
'.s possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, 
Jayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the 
op as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcasses, 
jut take off the meat about thejLieck. Put a good deal of butter, 
md bake the whole gently. Xeep it two days in the pan, then 
^hift it into small pots, adding butter. The Hvers also should be 
idded, as they eat well, 

To Blancli Rabbit, Fowl, &c., is to set it on the fire in a 
jimall quantity of cold water and let it boil ; as soon as it boils it 
is to be taken out and put into cold water for a few minutes. 



SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

' General Directions respecting Souj^s and Gravies, 

When there is fear of the gravy-meat being spoilt before it ia 
wanted, season well and fry it hglitly, which will preserve it two 
days longer ; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. 
' When soups or gravies are to be put by, let them be changed 
jevery day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has vegetables 
boiled in "it will turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never 
keep any gravy, &c., hi metal. 

When fat remains on any soup a cupful of flour and water, 
mixed_ quite smooth, and boiled in, wiU take it off. -\ 

If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of \^ 
butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of ^ 
these qualities. 

Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the in- 
r 2 



84 SCOTCH MUTTOX BROTH— VEAL BROTH. 

li 

gredicnts, therefore time sliould be allowed for soups and graviea; 
and the}' are best if made the day before they are wanted. .il 

Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the 
bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c., with 
butter, than when water is put to the meat at first ; and the grai'y 
that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the 
water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, &c., thai 
have stood to be cold. AVhen onions are strong, boil a turnip with 
them, if for sauce ; this will make them mild. "» 

If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in boilingi 
that the watery particles may evaporate. ^ u 

A clear jelly of Cow-Heels is very useful to keep in the house 
being a great improvement to soups and gravies. ft 

TruiHes and Morels thicken soups and sauces, and g\^ 
them a fine flavour. "Wash half an ounce of each carefully, thei 
simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the 
liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. 

SOUPS, &c.— Scotch Mutton Broth.— Soak a neck . ©. 
mutton in water for an hour; cut off the scrag, and put it into.;! 
stew-pot M'ith two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim i 
well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the bes 
end of the mutton, cut into pieces (two bones in each), take som« 
of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper ; skim tht 
moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hou 
afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number o 
turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them i) 
soon enough to get quite tender : add four large spoonfuls c 
Scotch barle.v, first wetted with cold water. The meat shoul< 
stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twent; 
minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is a: 
excellent winter dish. 

Veal Broth. — Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts o 
water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till tfe 
liquor is half wasted away. 

Colouring for Soups and Gravies.— Put four ounces o 
lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the finest buttei 
into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with i 
wooden spoon till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint o 
water; boil, skim, and when cold bottle and cork it close. Ad< 
to soup or grsi^n,' as much of this as will give a proper colour. 

A Clear Brown Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy .^ 
Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of tlti 
lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stew-pan, with two Oi 
three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of cele; 
sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, " 
do not let it brown. When thus prepared it will serve either 
soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy put some 
the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. •>« 

An excellent Soup.— Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slii 
of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantitaj 
of water ; simmer tUl very strong, and lower it with a good beef 



GIBLET SOUP— PARTRIDGE SOUP, 85 

iroth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to 
ags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as will be directed in 
he next receipt, and a roll. 

An excellent White Soup.— Take a scrag of mutton, a 
nuckle of veal after cutting off as much meat as will make col- 
ips, two or three shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a 
iiarter of a pound of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon, 
.ith a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon peel, two or 
liree onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white 
0] per ; boil all in three quarts of water till the meat falls quite to 
Kces. jS'ext day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sedi- 
lent, and put it into a saucepan of the nicest tin. If maccaroni 
; used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender 
her soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the 
liickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thick- 
nmg. which is to be made as follows :— Blanch a quarter of a 
ound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble 
lortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling ; mince a 
irge sHce of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of 
tale white bread ; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of 
•esh lemon peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil 

a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it 
u'ough a coarse sieve ; tliis thickening is then fit for putting to 
le rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. 

A Plainer White Soup.— Two or three pints of soup may 
e made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in 
le last article ; and both served together, adding a quarter of a 
int of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream and a little ground 
ice will give it a proper thickness. 

Giblet Soup.— Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or 
uck giblets ; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy -beef, 
?rag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox-tail, or 
:me shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet 
erbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. 
'ut five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must 
e each in four pieces) are quite tender : skim nicely, and add a 
uarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom-pow- 
er, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. 
rA it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be 
\^soued, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, 

large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the 
ireen, add salt. 

Partridge Soup.— Take two old partridges, skin them, and 
it them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of 
?lery, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in 
utter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put 
lem into a stew-pan with five pints of boiling water, a fewpepper- 
)rns, a shank or two of mutton, and a Httle salt. Stew it gently 
vo hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a 
ew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread; when it 
^ near boiling, skim it, poiu- it into a tureen and serve it up hot. 



86 TUBNIP-S0T7P— GREEN PEAS SOUP. 

Maccaroni Soup. — Boil a pound of the best maccaroni in i 
quart of good stock till quite tender ; then take out half, and pu 
it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stoci 
and boil it till you can pulp all the maccaroni through a fine sieve 
then add together the two liquors, a pint or more of cream, boil 
ing hot, the maccaroni that was first taken out, and half a poimd c 
grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boi 
Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of 
shilling. 

A Pepper-pot, to be served in a Tureen. — To thre 
quarts of water put vegetables according to the season ;_ i 
summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach ; in winter, ca,rrots, turnip 
celery, and onions in both. Cut small, and st^w with twopounc 
of neck of mutton, or a fowl and a pound of pickled pork, in tlurc 
quarts of water, till quite tender. 

On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add 
lobster or crab, cleared from the shells. Season with salt ar 
Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with tl 
meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled wii 
it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of wati 
with a little flour. 

Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understof 
to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. 

Turnip Soup. — Take ofi* a knuckle of veal all the meat th 
can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the remainder on to st( 
with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints 
water ; cover it close, and let it do on a slow fire four or five hou: 
Strain, and set it by till next day ; then take the fat and sedime 
from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tend* 
seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down hi 
a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream and the size 
a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till w 
through, and serve this with it. It should T^e as thick as middln 
cream. 

Old Peas Soup. — Save the water of boiled pork or beef, a: 
if too salt, put as much fresh water to it, or use fresh water e 
tirely with roast beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anch^f 
or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas ; i 
smaller the quantity of water at first the better. Simmer till t 
peas will pulp through a colander ; then set the pulp, and rriG 
of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a tiirnip^ 
leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quj 
tender. The last requires less time, an hour will do for it. 

When ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubl? 
fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour i 
soup in. 

Green Peas Soup.— In shelling the peas, divide the old frc 
the young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint 
water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepp 
and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when you ha 
done so, put to the liquor that stewed them some more water, t 



GEAVY SOUP— VEGETABLE SOUP— CAEllOT SOUP. 87 

heai'ts and tender stalks of tlie lettuces, the young peas, a handful 
of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and 
stew till quite soft. If the soup is thin, or not rich enough, either 
of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or tvro of 
butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled 
with it half an hour. Before serving, boil some green mint shred 
line in the soup. 

When there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary ; but 
if meat be preferred, a pig's foot, or ham-bone, &c., may be boiled 
with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is 
mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is re- 
quired to be very rich. 

' When peas first come in or are very young, the stock may be 
! made of the shells, washed and boiled till they will pulp with the 
above ; more thickening will then be wanted. 
I Gravy Soup. — Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, 
■ and set it on the fii'e with a gallon of water a large bunch of sweet 
' herbs, two large onions sliced and fried a fine brown (but not 
i burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, 
' and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is as rich as you 
choose ; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the servant's 
' table with a little of the gravj'. Next day take off the cake of fat ; 
which will serve for basting, or for common piecrust. Have ready 
I such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, 
I and celery small, and simmer till tender : some people do not like 
I them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil ver- 
I micelli a c^uarter of an hour ; and add to it a large spoonful of soy, 
I and one of mushroom ketchup. A French roll should be made 
i hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. 
j Vegetable Soup. — Pare and slice five or six cucumbers ; and 
' add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of 
' mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half 
I of young peas, and a little parslej-. Put these, with half a pound 
, of fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their ow^n liquor, near 
' a gentle fire, lialf an hour ; then pour two quarts of boiling water 
'■ te the vegetables, and stew them two hours ; rub down a little 
' flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or 
I twenty minutes, and serve it, 

' _ Another way. — Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, 
! six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, 
! and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of 
I bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it : put 
I that, some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper and salt to the above ; 
! stew it all gently for four hours, then strain it through a coarse 
' cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add 
to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved 
j you may add an anchovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. 
' Carrot Soup. — Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the 
' liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef lias been boiled, two large 
' onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a saucepan, and stew for 
I three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin. 



88 sriNACH sour— SCOTCH leek soup— hare sour. 

strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pnl 
through a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with tlU" 
soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two woode 
spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day befo] 
it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of tl 
carrot, and not the yellow. 

Onion Soup. — Into the water that has boiled a leg or net 
of mutton, put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shanl 
bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first slice 
and fried of a light brown ; simmer three hours, skim it carefull. 
and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. 

Spinach Soup.— Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turni 
two onions, one head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyn 
and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter' tl 
size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which me; 
has been boiled ; stew till the vegetables are quite tender ; woi 
them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to tl 
pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh wate 
pepper and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some sue 
dumplings, the size of a walnut ; and before you put the soup in" 
the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred tc 
fine ; and take care that it is quite fresh. 

Scotcli Ijeek Soup.— Put the water that has boiled a leg 
mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, an 
pepper and salt ; simmer them an hour ; then mix some oatme 
with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set 
on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gentlj^; but take ca: 
that it does not burn to the bottom. 

Hare Soup. — Take an old hare that is good for nothing els 
cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean bee 
two or three shank-bones of mutton well cleaned, a slice of lea |^ 
bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour on 
two quarts of boihng water; cover the jar into which you pi|f' 
these, with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of wate 
Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain ofi'the liquor au 
give it one boil, with an ancliovy cut into pieces ; and add a spooi 
ful of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat-ball 
fried of a good brown, should be served in the tureen. 

Ox Rump Soup.— Two or three rumps of beef will make 
stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these, an 
form a very nourishing soup. 

Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thickenin 
you like. 

Hessian Soup and Ragout.— Clean the root of a neat 
tongue very nicely, and half an ox head, with salt and water, an 
soak them afterwards in m ater on]y. Then stew them in five c 
six quarts of water, till quite tender. Let the soup stand to b 
cold ; take oiF tJie fat, which will make good paste for hot meal 
pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a pint of split peas, of; 
a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, six potatoes, si 
large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celei^ 



SOtJP A-LA-SAP— rOETABLE SOIJP— SOTJP MAIGEE. 89 

immer them without the meat till the vegetables are done enough 
) pulp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup will then be 
bout the thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, 
Ispice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. 
f the peas are bad, the soup may not be thick enough ; then boil 
I it a slice of roll, and put it through the colander, or add a little 
ce-flour, mixing it by degrees. 

For the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, 
id part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces, 
.ub these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into 
quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vege- 
.bles were added, flour well, and simmer them nicely till tender, 
hen put a Httle mushroom and walnut ketchup, a little soy, a 
ass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and boil 
1 up together before served. If for company, small eggs and 
•rcemeat balls. 

This way furnishes an excellent sou]3 and a ragout at a small 
:pense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for 
le famil}'. 

Soup a-la-Sap. — Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a 
Dund of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three 
inces of rice in six pints of water to five, strain it through a co- 
nder, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a saucepan again 
ith two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper 

I id salt, and when you serve add also fried bread. 

Portable Soup. — Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two 
lins of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as 
ill cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort 
f spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done 
) rags strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. \Yhen cold, 
ike off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants' pies), 
ut the soup into a double-bottomed tin saucepan, and set it on a 
retty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and 
ncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it 
ito a pan and let it stand in a cold place a day ; then pour it into 

round china soup-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boil- 
ig water on a stove and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, 

II the soup is thick and ropy, then it is done enough. Pour it 
ito the little round part at the bottom of cups or basins turned 
pside down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on 
annel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to 
e used, melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of 
erbs, or anything else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt 
lie soup in it. 

This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, where fresh 
leat is not always at hand, as by this means a basin of soup may 
•e made in five minutes. 

Soup Maigre. — Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, 
hake it round, and throw in six middUng onions sliced. Shake 
he pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of 
elery, two handfids of spinach, two cabbage-lettuces cut small. 



90 EEL SOUP— SKATE SOTJP— LOBSTER SOUP. 

and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten miniites, then pni 
in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful oi 
beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace, and if you have anj 
■« liite beet leaves, add a large handful of them cut small. 

Boil gently an hour. Just before serving, beat in two yolks oi 
eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Another. — Flour and hy a quart of green peas, four onioni 
sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip 
then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till thr 
Avhole will pulp through a sieve, then boil in it the best of thi 
celery cut tliin. 

Stbck for Brown or White Fish Soups.— Take a pound o 
skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean then 
well, and cut them into pieces : cover them with water ; and seasoi 
them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a hea( 
of celery, two parsle3'-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herb.- 
Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it oj 
for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in buttei 
and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or thre 
days. 

Eel Sotip. — Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them tw 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whol 
pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover them close 
and stew till the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off. Toas 
some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling, i 
piece of carrot maybe put in at first. This soup will be as rich a 
if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with 
tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improve 
ment. 

Skate Soup.— Make it of the stock for fish soup (as di 
rected above) ; \vith an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a littl 
before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten wit 
the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve i 
with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and the: 
soaked in the soup an hour. 

Excellent Lobster Soup.— Take the meat from the clawf 
bodies, and tails, of six small lobsters : take away the brown fm 
and the bag in the head : beat the fins, chine, and small claws, i; 
a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with th 
crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, | 
large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you hav | 
extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it ofi'. Beat the spawi 
in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea 
spoonful of flour ; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tail 
into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup 
Sorve with . forcemeat- bdlls made of the remainder of the lob 
stcr, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Le 
the balls be made up with a bit of flom% and heated in th 
soup. 

^ Crawfish or Frawn Soup.— Boil six whitings, and a lavm 
eel (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned), with as muS 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS RESPECTING GRAVIES. 91 



water as will cover tliem ; skim tliem clean, and put in wliole 
pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three 
cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty crawfish, or a hundred prawns ; 
pound the shells, and a little roll ; but first boil them Tsith a little 
water, vinegar, salt, and herbs : put this liquor over the shells in 
a sieve ; tlien pour the other soup, clear from the sediment. 
Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef 
gravy : add also the tails of the crawfish or the prawns, and 
some flour and butter : and season as may be liked, if not high 
enough. 

Oyster Soup.— Take two quarts of fish stock, as directed in 
page 90 ; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of 
two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. 
Simmer it all for half an hour ; then strain it ofi^', and put it and 
the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the 
soup. Simmer five minutes : have ready the yolks of six raw eggs 
well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way 
on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it 
boil. Serve altogether. 

Oyster Mouth Soup.— Make a rich mutton broth, with two 
large onions, three blades of mace, and some black pepper. When 
strained, pour it on a hundred and fifty oj^sters, without the 
beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter 
of an hour, and serve. 

GBAVIES.— General Directions respecting Gravies. 
—Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the 
kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. 

An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and 
prepared as other meat ; and so will the shank end of mutton that 
has been dressed, if much be not wanted. 

The shank bones of mutton are a great improvement to the 

richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour them 

clean. 

■^j- Tarragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high 

"gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a 

short time before serving. 

To Dress Gravy that will keep a week.— Cut lean beef 
thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a 
fire covered, but take care it does not burn ; let it stay till all the 
gravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again : i:)ut as 
much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then 
put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, 
and a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool 
place. Do not take ofi" the fat till going to be used. 

Clear Gravy. — Slicebeef thin; broil apart of it over avery clear 
quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress 
it : put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with 
two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspice, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover it with hot water, give it one 
boil, and skim it well tvro or three times ; then cover it, and sim- 
mer till quite strong. 



92 CULLIS, OR BROWX GRAVY— GRAVY FOR A FOWL. 

Cullis, or Brown Gravy.— Lay over the bottom of a stew- 
pau as muck loan veal as will cover it an ineli tliick ; then covert 
the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions,! 
two or three bay leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace,- 
and three cloves. Cover the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire ;' 
but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. ^ 
When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef 
broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour ; and add a little 
water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick :^ 
boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. t 

Bechamel, or White Sauce.— Cut lean veal into smallt 
slices, and the same ciuantity of lean bacon or ham ; put them 
into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of 
mace, a few mushroom buttons, a bit of thyme, and abay leaf ; fry 
the whole over a very slow fire, but do not brown it; thicken it. 
with flour ; then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich • 
cream : let it boil for half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain/ 
it through a soup-strainer. ♦ 

A Gravy without Meat.— Put a glass of small beer, a glasa ; 
of water, some pepper, salt, lemon peel grated, a bruised clove or: 
two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle, or mushroom ketchup, into .• 
a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it 
is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the 
onion, and simmer it, covered, twenty minutes. Strain it o£f for 
use, and when cold take off" the fat. 

A Kich Gravy.— Cut beef into thin slices, according to the 
quantity wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of a 
light pale brown, but do not on any account suffer them to get 
black ; put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water on the brown- 
ing in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it 
a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savory, a small bit of knotted mar- ■- 
joram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole : 
black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon oft 
bacon. Sinmier till you have extracted all the juices of the meat ; 
and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a 
hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. 

Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to make it 
of. — Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; 
simmer them with a little bread browned ; a slice of onion, a bit > 
of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and - 
gizzard, in a quarter of a pint oi water, till half-wasted. Take out • 
the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it 
with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
and it will be very good. 

Veal Gravy. — Make it ae directed for Cullis as above, but: 
leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn very • 
slowly ; and if for white dishes do not let the meat brown. 

Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison. — Pick a very ; 
stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the- 
bag from the entrails), and simmer with as much unseasoned meat-, 
gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. 



STEONG FiSn GEAVr— SlUCES. 93 

Strong Fish Gravy.— Skin two or three eels, or some 
flounders ; gut and wash them very clean, cut them into small 
pieces, and put into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add 
a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some 
whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel, an anchovy or 
two, and a tea-spoonful of horse-raddish. Cover close and simmer ; 
add a bit of butter and flour and boil with the above. 

Savoury Jelly, to put over Cold Pies.— Make it of a 
small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of 
that or mutton ; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, 
necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, 
observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. 
Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different 
herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon 
peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same 
of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts 
very close. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer 
very slowly till quite strong, strain it, and when cold take ofi" the 
fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, 
lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not 
clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not 
add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin 
in it, which has been dipped in boiling water to prevent waste. 

Jelly to cover Cold Fish. — Clean a maid, and put it into 
three quarts of water, with a calf's-foot, or cow-heel, a stick of 
horse-raddish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, 
a piece of lemon peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew 
until it will jelly, strain it off; when cold remove every bit of fat ; 
take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, 
the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil with- 
out stirring, and after a few minutes set it hy to stand half an 
hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve with a cloth in it. Cover 
the fish with it when cold. 



SAUCES, &c. 



A very good Sauce, especially to hide the bad 
Colour of Fowls. — Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, 
scalded parsley and hard eggs : add salt, and mix them with 
butter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. 

This will do for roast rabbit. 

White Sauce for Fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, White 
Meat, Fish, or Vegetables.— It is seldom necessary to buy 
meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is 
but small. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit ; or a 
little broth, that may be in the house ; or the feet and necks of 
chicken ; or raw or dressed veal will suffice. Stew with a little 
water any of these, with a bit of lemon peel, some sliced onion, 
some white peppercorns, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it and 



94 SATTCE FOE WILD FOWL— SITTCE A-LA-MAITHE d'hOTEL. 

add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour ; salt 
to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after tlie sauce 
is taken oif tlie fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in 
fricassee, but if you have any cream it is better, as the former is 
apt to curdle. '■■ 

Sauce for Wild Fowl.— Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine,' 
thie same quantity of good meat gravy, a little shalot, a little, 
pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace for ten minutes j' 
put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it 
through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, 
but may be done so if liked. 

Another for the same, or for Ducks. — Serve a rich 
gravy in the dish ; cut the breast into slices, but do not take them 
off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it ; then squeeze it 
on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you lielp. 

An excellent Sauce for Carp, or Boiled Turkey.— 
Eub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a 
little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick 
cream and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed ; set it over 
the fire, and as it boils up add a large spoonful of real India soy. 
If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it 
into the sauce tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon : stir it 
well to hinder it from curdling. 

Sauce for Fowls of any sort .— Boil some veal gravy, pep- 
per, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter 
as much of port wine as of gravy : pour it into the dish or a boat. 

Sauce for Cold Fowl or Partridge.— Eub down in a 
mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two dessert 
spoonfuls of oU, three of vinegar, a shalot, Caj-enne if approved, 
and a tea-spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before the 
oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar instead of shalot 
eats well. 

Sauce a-la-Maitre d'HoteL— Put a piece of butter into a 
saucepan with some curled parsley, some tarragon leaves, a shalot, 
two leaves of balm, a little salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice, and 
mix the whole with a spoon until they are well incorporated, and 
simmer a few minutes. 

A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Rabbits.— 
Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with 
salt to take off the tender skin. Put them into a saucepan with a 
little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a 
good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up and stir them 
tiU done; then pour it round the chickens, &c. G-arnish with 
lemon. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done 
white, with a little mushroom powder with the cream, &c. 

Lemon White Sauce for Boiled Fowls.— Put the peel 
of a small lemon, cut verj^ thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, 
with a sprig of lemon-thyme and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer 
gently till it tastes well of the lemon ; then strain it, and thicken 
it with a quarter of a pound of butter and a dessert-spoonful of 
flour rubbed in it. Boil it up, then pour the juice of the lemon 



LIVEE SAUCE— ONION" SAtJCE— DtTTCH SAUCE. 95 

irained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix 
L little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil 
hem together : add salt to your taste. 

Liver Sauce. — Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it 
IS directed for lemon-sauce (page 96), with a very httle pepper 
lud salt and some parsley. 

Egg Sauce. — Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small 
neces ; then put them to melted butter. 

Onion Sauce. — Peel the onions and boil them tender ; squeeze 
he water from them, then chop them and add to them butter that 
Las been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, 
jut with a little good milk instead of water ; boil it up once, and 
;erve it with boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal 
ir roast mutton. A turnip boiled \^'ith the onions makes them 
_.iilder. 

Clear Shalot Sauce. — Put a few chopped shalots into a 
ittle gravy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar, season. 
iYith pepper and salt ; boil half an hour. 

To make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are 
CO be had. — Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, 
md boil it a few minutes in some water. Use this water to melt 
the butter ; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to 
LOok like parsley. 

Green Sauce for Green Geese or Ducklings.— Mix a 
quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some 
scalded gooseberries. Add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them 
a up. 

Bread Sauce. — Boil a large onion cut in four, with some black 

i peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk 

i strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour 

^, put it in a saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a 

ittle flour : bod the whole up together, and serve. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. — Put six spoonfuls of 

water, and four of vinegar, into a saucepan, warm, and thicken it 

I with the yolks of two eggs. jMake it quite hot, but do not boil 

i it; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a 

sieve. 

Sauce Robart for Rumps or Steaks.— Put a piece of 
butter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set it over the tire, and 
when browning throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small ; fry 
them brown, but do not let them burn ; add half a spoonful of 
flom-, shake the onions in it and give it another fry ; then put four 
spoonfuls of gravy and some pepper and salt, and bod. it gently ten 
minutes ; skim off the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, 

spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, 
and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow 
brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. 

Benton Sauce for Hot and Cold Roast Beef.— Grate, 
or scrape very fine, some horseradish, a little made mustard, some 
pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve 
in a saucer. 



96 T02JATA SATJCE— CtTRIlANT SAUCE FOU VEN1S05?". 

Sauce for Fish Pies where Cream is not ordered.- 
Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vinegar, oyst^ 
liquor and mushroom ketchup : boil them up with an an 
chovy ; strain, and pour it through a funnel into the pie aft^ 
it is baked. ' 

Another.— Cliop an anchovy small, and boil it up with thrfti 
spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit p 
butter and flour. ■ 

Tomata Sauce for Hot or Cold Meats.— Put tomatad 
when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar, and set it in an oven 
when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft ; then separatt 
the skins from the pulp, and mix this witli capsicum vinegar am 
a few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be proportionec 
to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to you: 
taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne may be used in 
stead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide 
mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dr3'- cool place. 

Apple Sauce for Goose and Roast Pork.— Pare, core 
and slice some apples ; and put them in a stone jar, into a sauce 
pan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonfu 
or two of water be put in to liinder them from burning. Wher 
they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit oj 
butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it ir 
a sauce tureen. 

The Old Currant Sauce for Venison.— Boil an ounce o 
dried currants in half a pint of water a few minutes ; then add i 
small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine 
and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. 

Lemon Sauce. — Cut thin slices of lemon into verj'' small dice 
and put them in melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it ovei 
boiled fowls. 

Carrier Sauce for Mutton.— Chop six shalots fine ; anc 
boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some 
pepper and salt. Serve in a boat. 

Ham Sauce. — "When a ham is almost done with, pick all 
the meat clean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part ; beat 
the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin: put it 
in a saucepan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow 
fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When 
it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, 
some pepper, and half a pint of beef gravy ; cover it up and let it 
stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the 
herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to 
all gravies. 

A very Fine Fish Sauce.— Put into a very nice tin sauce 
pan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine 
walnut ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to 
them, a gill of walnut pickle, tlie rind and juice of a large lemon, 
four or five shalots, some Cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped 
horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of made 
mustard ; boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put 



nsn SAUCE I-li-ce aster— oyster satjce. &7 

! into small bottles for use. Cork tliem very close, and seal 
Jic top. 

Another. — Chop twenty-four ancliovics not wasliea, ana ten 
>]ialots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-radish, with about ten 
)l;ules of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of 
iiuhovy liquor, a quart of hock, or Ehenish wine, and a pint of 
svatcr ;"boil to a quart ; then strain off; and when cold, add three 
riiiie spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, and put into small bottles well 
.•orked. 

Fisli Sauce without Butter.— Smimer very gently a quar- 
ier of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not 
iu' hard), Avith an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the 
f. .liowing spices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, 
u\d half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. AYlieu the onion is quite 
lender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the whole on the 
lire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the 
m. 'autime, have ready and well beaten the yolks of three fresh 
.'ir,^$ ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when 
w el] mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping a basin 
111 one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the 
?aucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil 
them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of 
melted butter. 

Fish Sauce a-la-Craster.— Thicken a quarter of a pound of 
butter with flour, and brown it ; then put to it a pound of the best 
anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty 
berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot 
of herbs (namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), 
and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a 
pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of very strong gravy. 
Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a 
sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using it is, to boil some of 
it in the butter while melting. 

An excellent Substitute for Caper Sauce.— Boil slowly 
some parsley, to let it become a bad colour, cut, but do not chop 
it fine ; putit to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a 
dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. 

Oyster Sauce. — Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and 
boil it with the beards, a bit of mace and lemon peel. _ In the 
meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. 
Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as 
much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough ; 
. but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir 
all the time : and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take 
them off, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it ; for 
if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon 
juice, and serve. 

If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, 
the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. 

Lobster Sauce. — Pound the spawn, and two anchovies: 
pour on them two spoonfuls of gravj^ : strain all into some 



98 ANCnOYT SAUCE— TINGAEET—SHALOT VINEGAli. 

butter melted as -vrill be hereafter directed; tlien put in the 
meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of 
lemon. 

Another way. — Leave out the anchovies and gravy ; and doi 
it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as y(M 
MVe. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt onl3^ 

Shrimp' Sauce.— If the shrimps are not picked at homej 
pour a little water over them to Mash them ; put them to butter 
melted thick and smooth, give them one boil and add the juice ol '• 
a lemon. 

Anchovy Sauce.— Chop two anchovies without washing, put 
them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water ; stir it 
over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are 
good, they will be dissolved ; and the colour will be better than 
by the usual way. 
' To Melt Butter, which is rarely well done, though a 
very essential article. — Mix in the proportion of a tea- 
spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. 
Put it into a small saucepan, and two or three table-spoonfuls oi 
hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used 
instead of water, requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. 

Vingaret, for Cold Fowl or Meat.— Chop mint, parsley 
and shalot, and mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in £ 
boat- 

Shalot Vinegar.— Split six or eight shalots ; put them into ? i 
quart bottle, and till it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month i" 
will be tit for use. 

Camp Vinegar. — Shce a large head of garlic ; and put it int( 
a wide-mouthed bottle with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea 
spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut ketchup, four anchoviei 
chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it th< 
colour of lavender drops. Let it stand six weeks : then strain of 
quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. 

Sugar Vinegar.— To every gallon of water put two pounds o 
the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put om 
quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, put iiit< 
it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days ; then barrel, anc 
set in a place where the sun \\ ill lie on it, with a bit of slate oi 
the bung-hole. Make it in March, it will be ready in six months 

When sufiicientlj'^ sour, it may be bottled, or may be used froE 
the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. 

Gooseberry Vinegar.— Boil spring water ; and when cold 
put to every three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in i 
large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often, thei 
strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor, add i 
pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast anc 
>east : cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, &c., as above 
The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar 

Cucumber Vinegar.— Pare and slice fifteen large cucumben 
and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, foui 
onions sliced, two or three shalots, a little garhc, two lai'ge spoott- 



VriS-E VINEGAE— XASTUaTIUir CAPERS. 99 

lis of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea-spoqn- 
1 of Cayenne. After standing four days, give the whole a boil; 

■ len cold, strain and filter the liquor through paper. Keep in 
iiall bottles to add to salad, or eat with meat. 

V/ine Vinegar. — After making raisin wine, when the fruit 
; ^ been strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hundred 
• icht put fifteen gallons of water — set the cask, and put yeast, 
.'., as before. 

As vinegar is so necessary an article in a famil)', and one on 

■ lich so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be 
. pt preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine 

■re read.y. that kind might be made ; if a great plenty of goose- 
rries made them cheap, that sort ; or if neither, then the sugar 
it'srar— so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow 
::i^ty. 
K asturtuims for Capers.— Keep them a few days after they 

crathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, 
ver. They will not be fit to eat for some months, but are then 
lely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. 

To make Mustard.— Mix the best Durham flour of mustard 
ith boiling water till of a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly 
looth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar, close covered, 
id put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which 
lould be wiped daily round the edges. 

Another way, for immediate use. — Mix the mustard 
ith new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw 
■earn. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep 
ell. 

The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as 
leap, being always ready ; and if the pots are returned, three- 
3uce is allowed for each. 

A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great im- 
rovement, and softens it. 

Kitchen Pepper, — Mix in the finest powder one ounce of gin- 
?r; of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, 
df an ounce each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in 
bottle ; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. 
Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much 
irther than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, 
id should be done in quantities that may be wanted in three or 
Tir months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should 
' kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. 
To Dry Mushrooms.— Wipe them clean, and of the large 
ike the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry 

1 a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. 
'Vben used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near 
leir former size : to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry 
p into them, shaking the pan, then drjdng on tin plates, is a 
ood way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. 

Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place, or in paper. 
Mushroom Powder. — Wash half a peck of large mushrooms 
G 2 



loo MUSHROOlt POWDER— ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES. 

while quite frcsli, and free from grit and dirt with flannel : scrti| 
out the black part clean, and do not use any that are wonn-eatea 

f)ut them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with im 
arge onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and tin 
spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder ; simmer and shake thei 
till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not bun 
Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enoug 
to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corke 
and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. A tea-spoonful 
give a very fine fiavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce ; and 
is to bo added just before serving, and one bod given to it after 
is put in. 

To Choose Ancliovies.— They are preserv^ed in barrels, wii 
bay salt : no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. Tl 
best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily ; the flei 
should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine sme 

Essence of Anchovies. — Take two dozen of anchovies, ch( 
them, and take out the bone, but with some of their own liqu 
strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gent 
till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes ; when cold, stra 
and bottle it. 

To Keep Anchovies when the Liquor Dries.— Pour i 
them beef brine. 

To Make Sprats Taste like Anchovies.— Salt the 
well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wi 
them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of coi 
mon salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a qua 
ter of an ounce of sal prune], and half a tea-spoonful of cochine 
aU in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of t 
fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place fi 
tened down with a bladder. 

These are pleasant on bread and butter ; but use the best i 
sauce. 

Forcemeat to Force Fowls or Meat.— Shred a little ha: 
or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet, a small qua 
tity of onion, some parslej-, a verj'- little lemou-peel, salt, nutmc 
or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bre 
crumbs. 

Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beat 
and strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. 

Forcemeat, whether in the form of stuffiugballs, or for patti< 
makes a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour itii 
parts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. 

Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; but 4 
following observations may be useful, and habit will soon gt 
knowledge in' mixing it to the taste. 

At many tables where everything else is well done, it is coi 
mon to find very bad stufllng. 

According to what it is wanted for, should be the selection fro 
the following list, observing that of the most pungent articl* 
least must be used. No oue flavour should predominate great^ 



FOECEMEAT INGEEDIENTS. 101 

et, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a 
larked variety in the taste of the forcemeat, as well as of the 
ravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but 
ot dry and heavy. 

Forcemeat Ingredients.— 
D' Co]d fowl or veal. Oysters, 

h Scraped ham. AnchoA'y. 

i Fat bacon. Tarragon. 

3; Beef-suet. Savoury. 

) Crumbs of bread. Pennyroyal. 

[, Parsley. Knotted" Marjoram. 

White pepper. Thvme. 

■ Salt. Basil. 

Nutmeg. _ Yolks of hard eggs 

Yolk and wliite of eggs Cayenne, 
well beaten, to bind the Garhc. 
mixtui-e. Slialot. 

Chives. 

Jamaica pepper, in fine pow- 
der, or two or three cloves. 
The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat 
aay be made, without any striking flavour ; and to those, may be 
.dded some of the different ingredients of the second column, to 
ary the taste. 

For Cold Savoury Pies. — The same : only substituting 
at, or bacon, for suet. The livers (if the pie be of rabbit or 
owls) mixed with fat and lean pork, instead of bacon, and sea- 
soned as above, are excellent. 
For Haee, see to roast, page 82. 
Ditto, for baked Pike, page 29. 
Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 29. 
Ditto, for Soles, page 29. 
Ditto, for Mackeeel, page 28. 
Ditto, for Fish Pie, page 103. 

Very fine Forcemeat Balls, for Fish Soups, or Fish 
ttewed, on Maigre Days.— Beat the flesh and soft parts of a 
liddhng lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, 
he yolk of a hard ep^^, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white 
)epper, witn two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ditto of 
Wster hquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long 
oeaten : make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. 
;• Forcemeat as for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol. — A 
liound of fresh suet, one ounce of read}' dressed veal or chicken, 
!3hopped fine, bread crumbs, a little shalot or onion, salt, white 
pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon thyme 
tinely shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, 
as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste : roll into 
small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it 
iboils up. "When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them 
before the fire. If the suet bo moist or stale, a great many more 
eggs will be necessary. 



102 DIRECTIOXS FOE SAVOTJEY PIES. 

Balls made this xray are remarkably light; but being greasy 
some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. 

Little Eggs for Turtle.— Beat three hard yolks of eggs in { 
mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll i 
into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minute: 
to harden. 

Browning, to Colour and Flavour Made Dish.es.- 
Beat to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it intoj 
Tcry nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mi: 
it well over a clear fire, and when it begins to froth, hold it uj 
higher ; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quan 
tity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirrinj 
all the time, Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and th. 
same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades o 
mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the sameof wal 
nut ketchup, some salt, and the_ finely pared rind of a lemon ; boi 
gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin till cold, take off th 
scum, and bottle for use. 

Casserol, or Rice, Edging for a!Currie, or Fricassee 
— After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in watei 
nd a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash ; drain, and pu 
it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches 
smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk c 
egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serv 
the meat in the middle. 



PIES, PUDDIITGS, AND PASTRY. 

SAVOUEY PIES. 

(feuit pies will be placed undee the head pastey.) 

Observations on Savoury Pies. 

Theee are few articles of cookery more generally liked tha: 
relishing pies, if properly made ; and they may be made so of 
great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, i: 
that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that i 
used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will tak 
more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking c 
the crust will allow ; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form 
observe the following preparation : — 

Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for instance) tha 
has fat and lean ; wash it, and season it with salt, pepper, mace 
and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by th 
side of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it ; put to it; 
piece of butter, about two ounces, and cover it quite close ; let i 
just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it i 
cold add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs : and if it is in ; 
dish, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust 
do not put the gravy till after it is cold and in ielly, as has beei 



EEL PIE— COD PIE— LOBSTEE PIE. 103 

Jdescribed in page 93. Forcemeat may be put both under and 
lover the meat, if preferred to balls. 

Eel Pie. — Cut the eels in lengths of tvro or tliree inches, season 
with pepper, and salt, and place in a dish, with some bits of but- 
jter, and a little water ; and cover it with paste. 

Cod Pie. — Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it 
awell one night : next day wash it ; season with pepper, salt, and a 
jvery little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and put some butter 

Bon it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. 
Cover it with a crust ; and when done, add a sauce of a spoon- 
ful of broth, a quarter of a pint of crearn, a little flour and butter, 
a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may 
be added. 

Mackerel will do well, but do not salt them till used. 

Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters. 

Sole Pie. — Split some soles from the bones, and cut the fins 
close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and 
pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat 
excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a 
hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or 
three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes 
home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. 

Shrimp Pie, excellent.— Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they 
are very salt, season them with only mace^ and a clove or two 
Mince two or three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then 
season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, 
and cover the shrimps with a glass of sharp vrhite wine. The 
paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. 

Lobster Pie. — Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the 
tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, 
and lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws and that 
you have picked out of the body ; pick off the furry parts from the 
latter, and take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar : like- 
wise all the shells : set them on to stew with some water, two or 
three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace: 
a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the 
goodness of the shells is obtained ; give a boil or two, and pour 
into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over 
all ; bake slowly, but only till the paste be done. 

A remarkably fine Fish Pie.— Boil two pounds of small 
eels ; having cut the Ads quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw 
the bones into the liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a 
slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and strabi it. Make forcemeat 
of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon peel, salt, pepper, and 
crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the 
"bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed 
turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt 
and pepper ; pour the gravy over and bake. 

Observe to take ofi'the skin and fins, if cod or soles. 

Pilchard and Leek Pie.— Clean and skin tlie white part of 
some large leeks j scald in milk and water, and put them in layers 



104 BEEF STEAK PIE— CALF S DEAD PIE. 

into a dish, and between tlie layers, two or three salted pilchards^ 
which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Covei^ 
the whole with a good plain crust. AVhen the pie is taken out c^ 
the oven, lift up the side crust witli a knife, and empty out all th^, 
liquor ; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. ,,j 

Beef Steak Pie. — Prepare the steaks as in page 44, and when; 
seasoned and rolled \^■ith fat in each, put them in a dish with puij 
paste round the edges ; put a little water in the dish, and cover it, 
with a good crust. 

Veal Pie. — Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck • 
season it ; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon 
or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and 
nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs : and 
if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut 
into small bits, and cock's-combs blanclied, if liked. Have a rich 
gravj'- ready to pour in after baking. It ^^■ill be very good with- 
out any of the latter additions. 

A Rich Veal Pie.— Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal ; 
season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in 
powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same 
manner. Lay a puff piiste on the ledge of the dish ; then put the 
meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up 
to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices 
of ham, and fill the dish v.ith water; cover, and when it is taken 
out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a fimnel, a few spoon- 
fuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up ; but first boil it 
up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truflles, &c. if approved. 

Veal (or Chicken) and Parsley Pie.— Cut some slices from, 
the leg or neck of veal ; if the leg, from about the knuckle. 
Season them with salt : scald some parsley that is picked from the 
stems, and squeeze it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom 
of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in laj^ers. Fill the dish 
with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it, 
and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and i)ut in a pint 
of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cu.t up skinned, and 
made in the same way. 

Veal Olive Pie.— Make the olives as directed in page 53 ; put 
them round and round in the dish, making the middle highest^ 
Fill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy, cream, 
and flour. 

Calf's Head Pie.— Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating 
with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of herbs, ^ 
blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three pints of water. 
Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the 
balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the^ 
broth till it is ver}^ good. Half boil the head, and cut it in squarq^' 
bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then some head, first fat 
then lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till thq; 
dish be full; but be particularly careful not to place the pieces' 
close, or th3 pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for 
the jell}'. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with 



PORK TIE— MFTTON" TIE — SQUAB TIE. 105 

)ei)pcr and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little 
vater and a little fjravy into the disli, and cover it witli a tolerable 
hick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and when done, pour into it 
IS much gravy as it can possibly liold, and do not cut it till per- 
cctly cold ; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and 
irst'cut out a large bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; 
md when done thus, thinner slices can be cut : the dif- 
'cvcnt colours, and the clear jellj'-, have a beautiful marbled 
ijipearance. 

A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high season- 
ng, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c., has a very good ap- 
1 en ranee. 

The cold pie will keep many days. SHccs make a pretty side- 
lish. 

Instead of isinglass, use a calf's foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly 
s not likely to be stiff enough. 

The pickled tongues of former calves' heads may be put in to 
rary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. 

Excellent Pork Pies, to eat Cold.— E liso common boiled 
n-ust into either a round or oval form, as you choose : have ready 
:iio trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; 
v.kI if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat 
! -.veil with a rolling-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep 
:iio fat and lean separate. Put in layers quite close up to the top : 
lay on the lid : cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it ; bake in 
a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for 
raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put 
into a common dish, with a very plain crust, and be quite as 
LT'^od. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie ; the out- 
side of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and 
pressed close. 

Mutton Pie. — Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that 
has hung ; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Season with 
salt, pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water at the bottom of 
the dish, and a little paste at the edge ; then cover with a mode- 
rately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone 
in two to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. 
AMicn they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of 
a l)it of mutton. 

, ; Squab Pie.— Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows 
ilwith mutton chops : slired onion, and sprinkle it among them, and 

ialso some sugar. 
Lamb Pie. — Make it of the loin, neck, or breast ; the 
breast of house lamb is one of the most delicate things that 
■can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper 
jand salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles; and 
la small quantity of jelly gravy be put in hot; but the pie 
i^should not be cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before 
ibaking. 

j Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be boned or 
not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with only 



106 CHICKEN ME—GREEN GOOSE PIE— DUCK PIE. 

pepper and salt ; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and 
as mucli gravy when it comes from tlie oven. 

j\'o/c'. — Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, auc 
put in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. 

Chicken Pie.— Cut up two young fowls ; season witk wliite 

f)epper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder ; 
ikewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or frcsl 
gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns it 
layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none 
if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, hav( 
ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some 
shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and 
white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, j^ou may add truffles 
morels, mushrooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is mad( 
in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it ; but, in a raised crust 
the gravy must be niceb' strained, and then put in cold as jelly 
To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites o 
two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through i 
fine lawn sieve. 

Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well : their legs shoulc 
be cut short, anci the breast bones must not go in, but will help U 
make the gravy. 

Green^Goose Pie. — Bone two young green geese, of a goo( 
size ; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely 
Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace 
and allspice. Put one inside the other ; and press them as closi 
as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good dealof butte 
over them, and bake them either with or without crust ; if th. 
latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. I 
will keep long. 

Duck Pie. — Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl ; was! 
them and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion o 
mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within th( 
duck, and in the former a calf's tongue pickled red, boiled ver.i 
tender and peeled. Press the whole close ; the skins of the leg: 
sliould be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowls may b< 
quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the 
crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat niade according to th( 
second receipt given for making forcemeat in i)age 100. Bake i 
in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish with a thicl 
crust, ornamented. 

The large pies in Stafibrdshire are made as above : but with i 
goose outwards, tlien a turkey, a duck next, t-ien a fowl ; anc 
either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat in the middle. 

Giblet Pie. — After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets 
stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper 
and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearlj'' done. Let tliem grow cold ; 
and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three 
mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with 
the above ; and when the pie is baked pour into it a large tea- 
cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well 



PAETBIDGE ME— FEEXCn PIE— VEGETABLE PIE. 107 

Pigeon Pie. — Eub tlie pi^xeons with pepper and salt, in- 
ideandout; in the latter put a little butter, and, if approved, 
Dme parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same sea- 
oning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds 
n it ; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the 
ish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each 
igeon ; it is a great improvement to the flavour. 
• Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under 
lart rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them 
|n the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole made in the 
rust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. 
Partridge Pie in a Dish.— Pick and singe four partridges ; 
►•ut off the legs at the knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped 
barsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of 
lam at the bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and 
lalf a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the ledge of the dish, 
md cover with the same ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. 
Hare Pie, to Eat Cold. — Season the hare after it is cut up ; 
ind bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. 
WTien it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly- 
jravy, as in page 93. 

A"^ French Pie. — Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the 
iish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, 
svith forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke bottoms, 
md a few truffles. 

Vegetable Pie. — Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut 
carrots, turnips, artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, let- 
tuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have ; make the whole 
into a nice stew, with some good veal gvaxy. Bake a crust over 
a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned 
up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and 
^our in the stew. 

^'Parsley Pie. — Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, 
leasoned, into a dish ; scald a colander-full of picked parsley in 
ihilk ; season it : and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful 
(Jfany sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour 

t.to it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a 
. alnut of butter and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with 
file gravy alreadj^ in. 
Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, maj* be added to 
I ^e parsley, and scalded before put in. 

I 'Turnip Pie. — Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, re- 
i serving the end of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which 
1 must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. 
i Put tvro or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add 
sliced onions. Cover with a crust. 

Potatoe Pie. — Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; 
season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put 
layers of them and of the meat. 
An Herb Pie.— Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, 



108 OBSERTATIONS ON MAKING PUDDINGS AND PANCAKES. \ 

Iialf the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cr^ 
a few leaves of borage, and white beet leaves ; wash, and boil thfe'i 
a little ; tlieu drain, and press out the vrater ; cut them smdi 
mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled witli some salt. Mix! 
batter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half 
pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs ; cover with a good crdi 
and bake. 

Raised Crust for Meat Pies or Fowls, &c.— Boil watJE 
Mith a little fine lard, an equal quantity'- of fresh dripping, or ;( 
butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as muc 
i flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to I 
\ smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating 
with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a clotl 
or under a pan, to soak till near cold. 

Those -who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus 
E-oll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bo 
\ torn of the pie. then a long inece for the sides. Cement the boltoi 
j to the sides with eg^, bringing the former rather farther out, an 
' pinching both together ; put egg between the edges of the past 
to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on tb 
cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mod 
of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed int 
a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall b 
filled and covered ; but in the latter case the tin should be bu' 
tered, and careful]3^ taken off when done enough ; and as the fon 
usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the pasi 
should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. Wit 
a feather, put egg over at first. 

PUDDINGS, &c.— Observations on making Pudding 
and Pancakes. — The outside of a boiled pudding often taste 
disagreeably, which arises from the cloth not being nicely washec 
and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling watej 
squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loose ; if batter, tight over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; ani 
it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients slioui< 
not mix. 

Batter pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, whei 
all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. 

The pans and basins must be always buttered. 
/' A pan of cold water should be ready and the pudding dipt in a 
I soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to th< 
V^cloth. 

Ver3^ good puddings may be made without eggs ; but they mus 

have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or four hours 

A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answei 

instead of eggs. 

/ Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in pudding? 

/ or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of om 

egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is a 

V useful piece of ijiformation, especially as snow often falls at the 



ALMOXD rtlDDIXGS— BEEAD AND EUTTER rUDDING. 100 

rason wlien eggs are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malfc 
quors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snov,; may be taken 
]i from any clean spot before it is wanted, and "will not lose its 
ii'tuc, though the sooner it is used the better. 

ynte. — 'J'he yolks and whites beaten separately, make the articles they are 
ut into ranch lijrlitcr. 

Almond Puddings. — Beat half a pound of sweet and a few 
)itter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of 
)uttcr, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm Avith the butter, 
Mie of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some 
•lips, half fill, and bake the puddings. 

Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding. — Beat fine four ounces of 
ilraonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, the yolks of 
ix eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a 
nuirt of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake 
t half an hour, with paste round the dish. 

Small Almond Pudding.— Pound eight ounces of almonds, 
ind a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; mixed with four 
ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs ; 
nigar to taste ; two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy : mix 
well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with imdding-sauce. 

Sago Pudding.— Boil a pint and a half of new milk with four 
spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon peel, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg : sweeten to taste, then mix four eggs, put a paste 
round the dish and bake slowly. 

Bread and Butter Pudding.- Slice bread spread with 
butter, and lay it in a chsh with currants between each layer, and 
sliced citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an 
unboiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and 
a veryhttle ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked, and 
lade it over to soak the bread. 

A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but it 
is not necessary. 

Orange Piidding.— Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to 
•it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar 
pounded ; beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it 
the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained; scrape a raw 
apple and mix with the rest ; put a paste at the bottom and sides 
of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. 
Half an hour will bake it. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of orange paste with four of 
sugar, six eggs, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow 
dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. 

An excellent Lemon Pudding.— Beat the yolks of four 
eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being 
rubbed with some lumps of it to take the essence ; then peel, and 
beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all 
with four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a 
shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. "When 
served, turn the pudding out of the dish. 



110 APPLE PTTBBING— DTJTCn EICE PUDD1^^(J. 

A very fine Amber Pudding.— Put a pound of butter inf 
a saucepan, with tliree quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finel 
powdered : melt the butter, and mix well with it ; then add tb 
yolks of fifteen e^gs well beaten, and as much fresh candie 
orange as Mill add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to' 
fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out ; and wh^ 
well filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pii 
and bake in a slow oven. '^ 

It is as good cold as hot. .^ 

Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare and quarter four large apples 
boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water tha 
when done, none may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mortal 
and add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter meltec 
the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemoi 
and sugar to taste ; beat all together, and lay it in a dish wit" 
paste to turn out. 

Oatmeal Pudding.— Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pin 
of the best fine oatmeal ; let it soak all night ; next day beat tw 
eggs, and mix a little salt ; butter a basin that will just hold it 
cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an houi* and a hal 
Eat it with cold butter and salt. 

When cold, sHce and toast it, and eat it as oatcake buttered. 

Dutch Pudding, or Souster.— Melt one pound of butte 
in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs 
four spoonfuls of yeast, add one pound of currants, and a quarte 
of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. 

This is a very good pudding hot, and equally so as a cake whe: I 
cold. If for the latter, caraways may be used instead of currants 
An hour will bake it in a quick oven. 

A Dutch Rice Pudding.— Soak four ounces of rice in ware 
water half an hour ; drain the latter from it, and throw it into . 
stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, ant 
simmer till tender. "When cold, add four whole eggs well beater 
two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of fresh cream, an( 
put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good pieC' 
of lemon peel. 

Put a light puff paste into a mould or dish, or grated tops ant 
bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. 

Light or German Puddings or Puffs.— Melt three ounee; 
of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold ; then 
mix two ounces of fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolkf 
and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water 
Bake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. They should be servec 
the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, oi 
they will not be light. 

Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. 

Little Bread Puddings.— Steep the crumb of a penny leal 
grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, 
whites and yolks, and mix with the bread and two ounces of butter 
warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a Httle 
nutmeg, and a toa-cupfal of cream. Beat all well, and bake in te*' 



NEW COLLEGE PXJDDINGS— BOILED BPwEAD PUDDING. Ill 

ups buttered. If currants are cliosen, a quarter of a pound is 
ullicieut, if not, they are good without ; or jou may put orange or 
, lemon candy. Serve with pudding sauce. 

. I Puddings in haste. — Shred suet, and put with grated bread, 

', j. few cm-rants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of t\^-o, 

jorae grated lemon peel, and ginger. Mix, and make into 

little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little 

. 'lour. 

. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. 
( Twenty minutes will boil them, but they will rise to the top when 
. lone. 

t Pudding sauce. 

r New College Puddings.— Grate the crumb of a twopenny 
\ oaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of cur- 
j? -ants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, 
i lalf a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, j'olk and white separatel}^ Mix, 
\ md make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound 
I )f butter into a frying-pan, and when melted and quite hot, stew 
t hem gently in it over a stove ; turn them two or three times 
I .iU of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the butter. 
[ Serve with pudding-sauce. 

I Boiled Bread Pudding.— Grate white bread, pour boiling 
: nilk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat 
4i ,t fine, and mix it -with two or three eggs well beaten. 
t Put it into a basin that will just hold it ; tie a floured cloth over 
it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with melted butter 

• poured over. 

It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 
'; Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding instead of 
i raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. 
i Another and Richer.— On half a pint of crumbs of bread 

• pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat up 
foiu' eggs, and when strained add to the bread, with a tea-spoonful 
of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of 

' currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-flower water, 

half an ounce of orange-peel, and the same of lemon and citron. 

Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, tie tight 

over, and boil one hour. 
Brown Bread Pudding.— Half a pound of stale brown bread 

grated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg ; 

mix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandj'-, and two spoonfuls of 
'cream ; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it three or four 
i hours. 
^ ISTelson Puddings. -^Put into a Dutch oven six small cakes 

called JNTelson balls, or rice cakes made in small tea-cups. _ When 

tjuite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white wine and 

sugar; and serve. 
Eve's Pudding. — Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; 

mis it with the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, 

and also of currants ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and 
,, tjie rind of half a lemon shred fine. Pat it into a shape j boil three 



112 QUAKING rUDDING—TKANSPAEENT PUDDING. 

hours ; and serve v^itli pudding sauce, the juice of half a lemort 
and a little nutmcp;. ^ 

Quaking Pudding.— Scald a quart of cream ; when almd 
cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of floj 
some nutmegs and sugar ; tie it close in a buttered cloth ; boil 
an hour, and turn it out with care, lest it shoidd crack. Ser^ 
with melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. '■} 

Duke of Cumberland's Pudding.— Mix six ounces iaj 
grated bread, the same quantity of currants well cleaned an^ 
l^icked, the same of beef suet finel}" shred, the same of chopped 
apples and also of lump sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch « 
salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; and citro^^ 
orange aud lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. Mi? 
thoroughly, and put into a basin, cover very close with flourec 
cloths, and boil three hours. 

Serve it with pudding sauce, and the juice of half a lemon 
boiled together. 

Transparent Pudding. — Beat eight eggs very well; pd' 

them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded line, th( 

same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on tki 

fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it into a basil 

to cool ; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish ; pour h 

your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut ligh 

and clear. You may add candied orange and citron, if you like. 

, Batter Pudding.— Eub three spoonfuls of fine flour ex 

/ tremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk ; simmer till i 

/ thickens ; stir in two ounces of butter ; set it to cool ; then adi 

f the yolks of three eggs : flour a cloth that has been wet, or butte 

a basin, aud put the batter into it ; tie it tight, and plunge it int 

boilingwater, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a hall 

^ and serve it with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nnt 

V meg, and lemon peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. 

Batter Pudding with Meat. — Make a batter with floui 
milk, and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding disk 
then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shre« 
onion; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in-^ 
slow oven. 

Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first clearei 
of most of the fat. 

Rice Small Pudding.— Wash two large spoonfuls of rrec. 
and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size d 
an egg of batter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give! 
one boil. AVhen cold mix four yolks and two whites of eggs wel 
beaten, sugar and nutmeg, to taste ; and add grated lemon, and 
little cinnamon. 

Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at bottpn 

some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in 

slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, witli swee 

sauce in the dish, or a boat. 

/ Plain Rice Pudding. — Wash and pick some rice; threw 

V among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much ; tie the liiA 



EICE PUDDING— POTATO PUDDING. 113 

a cloth, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a "\ 
lantitj^ of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with / 
itter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon peel if you please. 
It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. 
A Rich. Rice Fudding.-^Boil half a pound of rice in water, 
ith a little bit of salt, till quite tender ; drain it dry, mix it with 
e yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, 
it]i two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces 
' beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, 
lely shred, three quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls 
' brand.y, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated 
men peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and 
1 the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if ap- 
'oved. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Eice Pudding with Fruit.— Swell the rice with a very little 
ilk over the fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, 
:>oseberries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black / 
urauts) ; with one egg in the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and/ 
■rve with sugar. 

Baked Rice Pudding.— Swell rice as above ; then add some 
lore milk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon peel. Bake in a 
?ep dish. 

Another, for the Family. — Put into a very deep pan half a 
3und of rice washed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four 
inces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. 
ess butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. 
A George Pudding. — Boil very tender a handful of whole 
ee in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon peel. 
,et it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled 
) pulp as dry as possible : add a glass of white wine, the j'olks of 
ve eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut thin ; make it pretty 
rreet. Line a mould or basin with a very good paste : beat the five 
hites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other 
igrcdients ; fill the mould, and bake it of a fine bright colour. 
erve it with the bottom upward with the following sauce : two 
lasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
it of butter as large as a walnut ; simmer without boiling, and 
our to and from the saucepan, till of a proper thickness ; and put 
1 the dish. 

An excellent Plain Potato Pudding.— Take eight ounces 
f boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the joYks and whites of 
ivo eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, 
morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; 
iigar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted 
ieher, put three ounces more butter, sweet-meats and almonds, 
nd another egg. 

Potato Pudding with Meat. — Boil them till fit to mash ; N 
ub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk 1 
nd two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some I 
atter, and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter, j 
Jake a fine brown. -,---' 

n 



lU BEEF STEAK rUDDING— MUTTON PIIDDI^'G. 



1| 



Steak or Kidney Pudding.— If kidney, split and soak if 
and season that or tlie meat. Make a paste ol' suet, flour, an 
milk ; roll it, and line a basin uitli some ; put the kidney o 
steaks in, cover with paste an.d pinch round the edge. Cover wit 
a cloth, and boil a considerable time. 

Beaf Steak Pudding.— Prepare some fine_ steaks as i 
page 44 ; roll them with fat between, and if you approve shre 
onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, an 
put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the basm with a pasti 
and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a clot 
tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length < 
time. 

Baked Beef Steak Pudding.— Make a batter of milk, tw 
eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled an 
mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of tb 
dish, then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very we 
seasoned j pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bai 
it. 

Mutton Pudding. — Season with salt, pepper, and a bit ( 
onion ; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish, and poi 
a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, an 
mixed with milk and an eg^^ over them ; then putting the rest i 
the steaks and batter, bake it. 

Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but require 
more egs^ and is not so good. 

Another. — Cut slices off a leg that has been underdone, an 
put them into a basin lined with a fine suet crust- Season wit 
pepper, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot. 

Suet Pudding. — Shred a pound of suet, mix with a pouu 
and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, an 
as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats well ne: 
day cut in shces and broiled. 

The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, mala 
> a more delicate pudding than suet. 

Veal Suet Pudding.— Cut the crumb of a threepenny la 
into slices : boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk and poi 
over it. Y/hen soaked, pour out a little of the milk, and mix wit 
six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the shces of bre-a 
into a dish, with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a poun 
of each. Butter the dish well, and bake ; or 3'ou may boil it in 
basin, if you prefer it. 

Hunter's Pudding.— Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, dltt 
cun*ants, ditto raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half 
lemon shred as fine as possible, sLx Jamaica peppers in fin 
powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as httl 
milk as v.ill make it of a proper consistence ; boil it in a lloure 
cloth, or a melon mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with swee 
sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-water for change c 
flavour. 

\ . This pudding will keep, after it has been boiled, six months, j 
\kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up folded in a sheet 



CUSTAED PUDDING— MACCAEONI PUDDIXG. 115 

p-paper to preserve it from dust, being first cold. When to be 
,ed it must boil a full hour. 

Common Plum Pudding.— The same proportions of flour 
nd suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a jjlass 
f wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an excellent 
uddiug if long boiled. 

Custard Pudding.— Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with 
large spoonful of flour, j^olks of five eggs, some orange-flower 
ater, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that will 
xactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. 
*ut in boiling water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes 
J prevent the egg going to one side. _ Half an hour will bod it. 
Put currant jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. 
Maccaroni Pudding. — Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe 
ort in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon and cinnamon till 
3uder ; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, but only 
ne vrhite, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a 
lass of raisin-wine. 33ake with a paste round the edge. 
A laj'er of orange-marmalade, or raspberry -jam, in a maccaroni 
adding, for change, is a great improvement ; in v\-hich case omit 
he almond-water, or ratafia, -nhich you would otherwise flavour 
; with. 

Millet Pudding.— Wash three spoonfuls of the seed; put it 
to the dish with a crust round the edges ; pour over it as much 
lew milk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter warmed 
rith it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nut- 
leg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a 
poonful of shred suet. 

Carrot Pudding.— Boil a large carrot tender ; then bruise it 
Q a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powder, 
►r three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and 
;wo whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little 
atafia, a large spoonful of orange or rosovrater, a quarter of a 
lutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish 
med vrith paste, and turn it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted 
iFer. 

UAn excellent Apricot Pudding. — Halve twelve large 

^icots, give them a scald till thej' are soft ; meantime pour on 

Be grated crumbs of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when 

lalf cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and 

i glass of vrhite wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some 

Pbr all of the kernels ; then mix the fruit and other ingredients 

i^ogether ; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half an 

,4iour. 

• Baked Gooseberry Pudding. — Stew gooseberries in a jar 
over a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water till they will pulp. 
Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, the j'olks 
and whites of three eggs beaten and strained, and one ounce and 
a half of butter ; sweeten it well, and put a crust romid the dish. 
A few crumbs of rolls should be mixed with the above to give a 
little consistence, or four ounces of jSTaples biscuits. 

H 2 



116 SUELFOKD rUDDING— BKANDY rt'DDING. 

A Green Bean Pudding.— Boil and blanch old beans, b^ 
tliem in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream 
and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach juice will give a fine 
colour, but it is as good without. Boil it in a basin that will^i 
hold it, an hour, and pour parsley and butter over. Serve bai; 
to eat with it. 

Shelford Pudding. — Mix three quarters of a pound of cjjj 
rants or raisins, one jjound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggg^^ 
little good milk, some lemon peel, a little salt. Boil it in a meloB 
shape six hours. ,g. 

Brandy Pudding. — Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned^^ 
dried cherries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to whjij, 
put ratafias or macaroons ; then the fruit, rolls, and cakes in suf 
cession, until the mould be full ; sprinkling in at times two glasse 
of b^and3^ Beat four eggs, j'olks and whites ; put to a pint.jC 
milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the rind ;j 
half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquor sink into the solj. 
part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil one hour; kee' 
the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Buttermilk Pudding. — Warm tliree quarts of new mil^ 
turn it with a quart of buttermilk ; drain the curd througlii 
sieve ; when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with near half,' 
pound of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated,', 
nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm butter^^ 
tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites of thee' 
eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. 

When well incorporated, bake it in small cups or bowls w,^! 
buttered ; if the butter be not brown, use a salamander ; but serf 
as quick as possible, and with pudding sauce. 

Curd Puddings or Puffs.— Turn two quarts of milk t 
curd, press the whey from it, rub through a sieve, and mix fo]^ 
ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny loaf, two spoonfuls -ip 
cream, and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and tw 
spoonfuls of white wine. Butter little cups, or small patt3'-paiis 
and fill them three parts. Orange flower water is an i^ 
provement. Bake them with care. Serve with sweet sauce ly 
a boat. 

Boiled Ciird Pudding. — Eub the curd of two gallons p 
milk, when drained, through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs,, j 
little cream, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a mil 
meg, flour and crumbs of bread, each three spoonfuls, currauti 
and raisins half a pound of each. Boil an hour in a thick w'^ 
floured cloth. .^ 

Pippin Pudding. — Coddle six pippins in vine leaves coveri^ 
with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breaking 
the skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pi^l 
from the core. Press it througli a colander ; add two spoonfuls^ 
orange-flower ^A'ater, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin wine.'^i 
pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a t^i 
puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very tb|r 
lemon peel as flne as possible, and put it into the dish ; likewise 



YOllKSHIKE PUDDING— GROUND RICE PUDDING. 117 

lemon, orauge, and citron, in small slices, but not so tliin as to dis- 
solve in tlie baking. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Mix five spoonfuls of flour, witli a 
quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. "When ■ 
quite brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side up- 
A\ ards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and 
cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, 
and stir it some minutes, 

A quick-made Pudding. — Flour and suet, half a pound of 
each, four eggs, a quarter of a pint of new milk, with a little mace 
and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants ; 
mix well, and boil three quarters of an liour with the cover of the 
pot on, or it will require longer. 

Russian Seed, or Ground Rice Pudding. — 33oil a large 
spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint of new milk, with lemon peel 
and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs 
V, oil beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. 

A Welsh Pudding.— Let half a pound of fine butter melt 
gcntl}'", beat with it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, 
mix in sLx ounces of loaf sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon. 
Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the' above in, and 
nicely bake it. 

Oxford Dumplings. — Of grated bread two ounces, currants 
and shred suet four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a 
great deal of grated lemon peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento 
in line powder. Mix with two eggs and a little milk into five 
dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour 
instead of bread, but with half the quantitj^, they ai-e excellent. 

Serve with sweet sauce. >,^^ 

Suet Dumplings.— Make as pudding (page 114), and drop^. 
into boiling water, or into the boiling of beef: or you may boilj 
them in a cloth. 

Apple, Currant, or Damson Dumplings, or Puddings. 
— Make as above, and line a basin with the jiaste tolerably thin ; 
fill with the fruit, and cover it ; tie a cloth over tight, and boil till 
the fruit shall be done enough. 

Yeast, or Suffolk Dumplings.— Make a very light dough\ 
with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put ; 
salt. Let it raise an hour before the fire. 

Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a large 
stew-pan of boiling water ; make the dough into balls, tlie size of 
a middling apple; throw them in, and boib twenty minutes. If 
you doubt when done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if 
it come out clear, it is done. 

The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the top with two 
folks, for they become heavy hy their own steam. Eat imme-. 
diately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. 

A Charlotte. — Cut as many verj^ thin slices of white bread as ' 
will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, but first 
rub it thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices, into the dish, 
in layers, till full; strewing sugar between, and bits of butter. In 



118 r.VXCAKr.S— FRITTERS. 

the meantime, soak as many tliin slices of bread as will cover tift 
whole, in warm miUc, over which lay a plate, and a weight to ke&p 
tlie bread close on the apples. Balie slowl\' three houns. To i 
middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. ^ 

Coramon Pancakes. — Make a light batter of eggs, flonr, aiS^ 
milk. Fry in a small pan, in iiot dripping or lard. Salt, or nuftj 
meg, and ginger, may be added. '"> • 

Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or, whefl 
eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour, and small beer, ginger, 
(fcc, or clean snow, with flour, and a very little milk, will serve A^ 
well as egg. ':>' 

Fine Pancakes, fried without Butter or Lard.— Bedl 
six fresh eggs extremcl}' well, and mix, when strained, with a pint 
of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg 
grated, and as mucli flour as will make it almost as thick as ordi 
nary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably 
hot, wipe it with a clean cloth ; then x)our in the batter, to make 
thin pancakes. 

Pancakes of Rice. — Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a 
small quantity of water ; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, 
eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg : stir in eight ounces of butter 
just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick 
enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. 

Irish Pancakes. — Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, 
strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar tc 
your taste ; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and 
as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the 
eggs are put to it : then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. 
Fry the pancakes very thin ; the first with a bit of butter, but not 
the others. 

Serve several, one on another. 

New England Pancakes.— Mix a pmt of cream, five 
spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four vihites of eggs, 
and a very little salt ; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and 
between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight 
at once. 

Fritters. — Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the' 
plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and cored into the batter, 
and fry some of it with each slice. Currants or sliced lemon as 
thin as paper, make an agreeable change. Fritters for company 
should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of^ 
sweetmeat or ripe fruit may be made into fritters. 

Spanish Fritters.— Cut the crumb of a French roll intO' 
lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in 
some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When 
well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, 
and sugar sauce. 

Potato Fritters. — Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine : 
beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above 



PASTRY — EICH PUFF PASTK. 119 

lie large spoonM of cream, anotlier of s^Yeet wine, a squeeze of 
MHon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. 
L ^\\\l be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a 

o*v-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. 
rv them : and serve as a sauce a glass of white wine, the 
lice of a lemon, one dessert-spoonful of peach leaf or almond 
ater, and some white sugar warmed together, not to be served 
1 tlie dish. 

Anotlier way .— Shce potatoes thin, dip them m a fine batter, 
nd fry them. Serve T^-ith white sugar sifted over them. Lemon 
oel. and a spoonful of orange-flower water should be added to 
hi- butter. 

Bookings.— Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour with a tea- 
iipful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast ; let it rise before 
he lire about an hour ; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as 
Liuch milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pan- 
ares, and frv them the same. 

PASTRY.— Rich Puff Paste.— Puffs may be made of any 
:;t of fruit, but it should be prepared fii'st with sugar. 

Vreigh any quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you 
rabe necessary ; mix a little of the former with the latter, and 
\ et with as little water as will make it into a stiff paste. Pvoll it 
ml. and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, and 
ull it thin : do this twice, and touch it no more than can be 
ivoidcd. The butter may be added at twice; and to those 
\ lio are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to 
lo so. 

A quicker oven than for a short crust. 

A less rich Paste.— Weigh a pound of flom', and a quarter 

, )f a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with 

1} I httle water, and an egg well beaten— of the former as little as 

rill sufiice, or the paste will be tough. Eoll, and fold it three or 

Lur times. n - 

Eub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of 
lutter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a 
>tift' paste with as little hot water as possible. 

Crust for Venison Pasty.— To a quarter of a peck of fine 
flour use two pounds and a half of butter, and four eggs ; mix into 
paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good con- 
sistence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of 
the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the , long con- 
tinuance in the oven. 

Rice Paste for Sweets.— Boil a quarter of a pound of ground 
rice in the smallest quantity of water : strain from it all the mois- 
ture as well as you can ; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of 
butter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent 
paste for tarts, &c. 

Rich Paste for relishing things.— Clean, and put some 
rice, with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk only, into 
a saucepan, and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a 



120 POTATO TASTE— SnOUT CEtJ8TS. 

dish, and cover it "with the rice; by the addition of an egg l!i< 
rice will adhere better. in 

Eabbits fricasseed, and covered thus, are very good. ' i 

Potato Paste. — Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add 
while -svarm, a sufficiency of butter to mate the mash hold tS 
gethcr, or you may mix with it an egg ; then, before it gets coM 
Hour the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll i 
to the thickness wanted. 3 

If it has become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it yf^ 
be apt to crack. X 

Raised Crusts for Custards or Fruit.— Put four oun* 
of butter into a saucepan with water, and when it boils pour 1 
into as much flour as you choose ; knead and beat it till smoo^ 
cover it, as at page 108. Eaise it ; and if for custard, put a pjipe 
within to keep out the sides till. half done, then fill with a col- 
mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and add a little peach water, lemoi 
peel, or nutmeg. I3y cold is meant that the egg is not to b 
warmed, but the milk should be warmed by itself— not to spo: 
the crust. 

The above butter will make a great deal of raised crust, white 
must not be rich, or it will be difficult to prevent the sides frob 
falling. 

Excellent Short Crusts.— Take two ounces of fine whit 
sugar, pounded and sifted, quite drj', then mix it with a pound < 
flour well dried ; rub into it three ounces of butter so fine as ne 
to be seen — into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beat^i 
and mix the above into a smooth paste ; roU it thin, and bake it i 
a moderate oven. _ ' 

Another. — Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an ounce t 
sugar pounded and sifted ; then crumble three ounces of butter^ 
it till it looks all like flour, and with a gill of boiling cream wor 
it up to a fine paste. 

Another, not sweet but rich.— Eub six ounces of butt€ 
in eight ounces of fine flour ; mix into a stiffish paste, ■« ith as littl 
water as possible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well a 
the former, is fit for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

A very fine Crust for Orange Cheesecakes, or Sweet 
meats, when to be particularly nice. — Dry a pound of fift 
flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half; 
pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth; put th« 
flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained 
the yolks of three, and \\ hites of two eggs. If too limber, pn 
some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans 
and fiU. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. A gains 
they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with 
the white of an egg as thick as you can ; ice them all over 
set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresi 
butter. I' 

Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for min<*- 
pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PASTEY. 121 

y Observations on Pastry.— An adept in pastry never leaves 
ly part of it adhering to the board or dish used in making. It 
best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot 
eather the butter should be put into cold water to keep it as firm 
possible, and if made early in the morning, and preserved from 
le air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better, 
good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce 
jhter crust than others. Salt butter, if very good and well 
aalied, makes a fine flaky crust. 

Remarks on Using "Preserved Fruits in Pastry.— Pre- 
ryed fruits should not be baked long ; those that have been 
)iie with their full proportion of sugar, need no baking ; tlic 
mst sliould be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards 
Ided ; or it may be put into a small dish, or tart-pans, and the 
•vers bs baked on a tin cut out according to j'our taste. 
Ajjple Pie.— Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the out- 
le, wliich, with the cores, boil with a little water till it tastes 
3II ; strain, and put a little sugar and a bit of bruised cinnamon, 
id simmer again. In the meantime place the apples in a dish, a 
tgte being put round the edge; when one layer is in, sprinkle 
Jf the sugar, and shred lemon peel, and squeeze some juice, or a 
ass of cyder if the apples have lost their spirit ; put in the rest 
the apples, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover 
ith paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot, or 
it quince-marmalade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. 
Hot Apple Pie.— Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, 
id put a bit of butter in when cut open. 

Cherry Pie should have a mixture of other fruit, — currants or 
spberries, or both. 

Currant Pie, with or without raspberries. _ _ 

Mince Pie. — Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh / 
ro pounds, four pounds of suet picked and chopped, then add 
s pounds of currants nicely cleaned and perfect!}'' dry, three 
rands of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a 
at of sweet wine, a nutmeg, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves, 
tto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder ; press the whole into 
deep pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool 
jtce. 

Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large family. 
Have citron, orange, and lemon peel ready, and put some of 
uJh in the pies when made. 

Mince Pies wittiout Meat. — Of best apples six pounds, 
ired, cored, and minced ; of fresh suet and raisins stoned, each 
tree pounds, both, likewise minced : to these add of mace and 
anamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest 
iwder, three pounds of the finest powdered sugar, three quarters 
"an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two lemons, half a 
at of port, the same of brandy. Mix well and put into a deep 
m. 

Have ready washed and dried four pounds of currants, and add 
you make the pies, with candied fruit. 



122 li:mox jjixce pies— icing fob tahts— prune taet. 

. Lemon Mince Pies.— Squeeze a large lemon, boil the <f^ 
side I ill tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it three laJ^ 
npples ciiopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currai^i 
four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and candied ftp4 
as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty-pan?If 
usual. 

Egg Mince Pies.— Boil six eggs hard, shred them small 
slired double the quantity of suet ; then put currants washed aaji 
pi( ked one pound, or more, if the eggs vrere large ; the peel of oi 
leuion shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet win , 
mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt : orange, lemon, and citrft 
candied. Make a light paste for them. ^ -i 

Currant and Raspberry. — For a tart, line the dish, pj 
sugar and fruit, lay bars across, and bake. 

Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes.— Beat the wH; 
of an egQ to a strong froth ; then mix with it as much water,} 
V. ill make three quarters of a pound of fine flour into a very sti 
j)astc ; roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound 
butter upon it in little bits ; dredge it with some flour le 
out at first, and roll it up tight, lloll it out again, and pi 
the same proportion of butter ; and so proceed till all be work< 
up. 

Icing for Tarts.— Beat the yolk of an egg and some melt( 
butter well together, ^va.sh the tarts with a feather, and sift sugi i 
over as j'^ou put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, washtl 
l^aste, and sift white sugar. 

Pippin Tarts. — Pare in two Seville or China oranges, be 
the peel tender, and shred it fine ; pare and core twenty apple 
put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible : when hf 
done, add half a x)Ound of sugar, the orange peel and juice ; b( 
till pretty thick. When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or patt, 
pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 

Prune Tart. — Give prunes a scald, take out the stones ai , 
break them ; put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, with tl • 
prunes and sugar ; simmer ; and, when cold, make a tart of tl 
svreetmeat. 

Orange Tart. — Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville orangi 
tender, weigh them, and double of sugar; beat both together o 
a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the si: 
of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat together. Choose a vei' 
shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste 
orange in it. You may ice it. 

Cddlin Tart. — Scald the fruit as will be directed under thi 
article : when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole i 
a dish, put a little of the water the apples were boiled in at bottoB 
strew them over with lump sugar or fine Lisbon ; when cold, ptrt 
paste round the edges and over the tart. 

You may wet it with Avhite of ego:, and strew sugar over, whjc 
looks very well : or cut the lid in quarters, without touching tt 
paste on the edge of the dish : and cither put. the broad e« 
downwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the U 



imUBARB TART— OEANGE TAUT— OTSTEll PATTtES. 123 

togetlicr. Pour a good custard over it when cold, aud sift sugar 

TV. 

Or, line the bottom of a shallow dish with pciste, lay the apples 
it. svteeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars, 
lihllbarb Tart.— Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five 
dies, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay 
na in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover 
ith another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour ; or do 
01 li in a block-tin saucepan. 

When cold, make into a tart, as codlin. When tender, the 
il:iiig the crust will be sufficient. 

Easpberry Tart with Cream. — Eoll out some thin puff 
'^[e, and lay it in a patty-pan of what size you choose ; put in 
^ 'erries ; strew over them fine sugar ; cover with a thin lid, and 
1jake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mixture 
jFin : half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well 
•aien, and a little sugar; and vrhen this is added to the tart, re- 
ii'ii it to the oven for five or six minutes. 

Orange Tart. — Line a tart-pan with thin puff paste ; put 
to it orange marmalade that is made with apple jelly ; lay 
u's of paste, or a croquant cover over, and bake in a moderate 

Fried Patties. — Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters,' 
lixcd with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a 
:vy small bit of lemon peel — add the liquor of the oj'sters ; warm 
1 in a tosser, but do not boil ; let it cool ; have ready a good 
utT paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; put some 
t' the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the 
ravy, and fry them of a fine brown. 

'i Iiis is a very good thing ; and baked, is a fashionable dish. 

A^'ash all patties over with egg before baking. 

Oyster Patties. — Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pans," 
nd cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against 
i 'v are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out 
10 bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts 
i:o small bits, put them in a small tosser, ^ith a grate of nutmeg, 
le least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon peel, cut so 
nail that you can scarcely see it, a very little cream, and a little 
f the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before jou fill. 

Observe always to put a bit of crust into patties, to keep them 
ollow while baking. 

Oyster Patties, or Small Pies.— As you open the oysters 

j'arate them from the liquor, which strain; i^arboil them, after 
iking off the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and cutting themin 
lices, lay them and the oysters in layers, season very lightly with 
alt, pepper and mace. Then put half a teacup of liquor, and the 
arae of grav3^ Bake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put 

teacup of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cup of white 
ravy, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters 
hould be cut in small dice, gently stewed, and seasoned as above, 
nd put into the paste when ready for table. 



124 VEAL PATTIES— SWEET PATTIES— APPLE PUFPS. 

Lobster Patties.— Make with tlie same seasoning, a M 
cream, and the smaUest bit of butter. "'*: 

Podovies, or Beef Patties.— Shred underdone dressed "[^ 
with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot c 
onion. jNIake a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like;ii 
apple pufF, fill it with the mince, pinch the edges, and fry them|^ 
a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity^ 
butter, egg, and milk. 

Veal Patties. — Mince some veal that is not quite done with 
little parsley, lemon peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt : 
a httle cream, and gravy just to moisten the meat ; and if you ha^ 
any ham scrape a little, and add to it. Do not warm it till th 
patties are baked. 

Turkey Patties. — Mince some of the white part, and wit 
grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, crean 
and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. 

Sweet Patties. — Chop the meat of a boiled calf's foot, 
which you use the liquor lor jelly, with two apples, one ounce 
orange and lemon peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; ra' 
with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful > 
brandy, and four ounces of cm'rants washed and dried. 

Bake in small patty-pans. 

Patties resemtoiing Mince Pies.— Chop the kidney and f: 
of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon peel candied, and fresh cu 
rants, a httle wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a b 
of sugar. Bake as before. 

Apple Pufis. — Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stoi 
jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp"" 
the apple with sugar and lemon peel shred fine, taking as little 
tlie apple juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a qui( 
oven : a quarter of an hour will do them, when small. Orange, 
quince marmalade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounde 
or orange-flower water, in change. 

Lemon Pnfifs. — Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of doub 
refined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and rnix it Wf 
with the sugar ; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs 
great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for * 
hour ; make it up in anj' shape you please, and bake it on pa|)w 
l)ut on tin plates, in a moderate oven. Do not remove the pap< 
till cold. OiliDg the paper will make it come off with ease. 

Cheese Pufe.— Cream cheese-curd from the whey, and b^; 
half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a h? 
of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange-flowi 
water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it pretty swee 
Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes, on a tin plat 
If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Sen 
with pudding sauce. ;, 

Excellent Light Puffs.— Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a litu 
grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a li^- 
loaf sugar, and one egg ; then fry it enough, but not browB 
beat it in a mortar vrith five eggs, whites and yolks : put^' 



VENISON PASTY. 12j 

Ijaantlty of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot drop a 
Pessert-spoonfiil of batter at a time : turn as they brown. Serve 
licm immediately with sweet sauce. 

To prepare Venison for Pasty. — Take the bones out, then 
eason and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, 
our upon it some i)lain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one ; 
ly the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, 
saucepan of water over the fire, simmer three or four hours- 
hen leave it in a cold place till next day. Eemoye the cake of fat, 
\y the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not sufficiently 
easoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento, as necessary. Put 
ome of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving, 
r the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time 
bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the 
aider part is seldom done through. 

Venison Pasty. — A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but 
t must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supphed by 
hat of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours 
11 equal parts of rape, vinegar and port. The shoulder being 
iuewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or 
liree days, and when to be used, wipe it perfcctl}^ clean from it, 
nd the wine. 

A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too 
nui.h ; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven 
vill be quite sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be 
)rcserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in 
)ieees, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to 
■aeh person without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some 
)cpper and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter ; then 
lie meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not 
ic hollow to harden at the edges. 

The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton 

—of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay butter 

)n the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick 

1 'rust, but do not put one under the meat. Keep the remainder 

; )f the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into the 

' niddle by a funnel, ciuite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It 

ihould be seasoned with pepper and salt. 

To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well 
IS Venison. — Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or 
V fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well 
'.vith a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with four ounces 
pf sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vmegar. 
'Let it lie five days and nights ; wash ancl wipe the meat very dry, 
md season it very high with the best Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, 
and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put about a 
pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round 
the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone be- 
fore the meat be soaked. It must be done in a slow oven. 
: Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than 
R^ill cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, 



126 POTATO PAST r— men custards— leuon cusiaeds. 

that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the paste wh^p 
drawn. 

I\ote. — Sugar gives a greater shortnes?, and bettor flavour to meats tli^; 
salt, too great a quantity of which hardens, and it is quite as great a pij^ 
servative. ^ 

Potato Pasty. — Boil, peel, and masli potatoes as fine a 
possible, mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of buttei 
Iilake a paste ; roll it out thin like a large pufl*, and put in th 
potato : fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a mod^ 
rate oven. -^ 

Cheap and Excellent Custards.— Boil three pints of nei 
milk, with a bit of lemon peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or thre 
bay leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth' 
large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix wi6 
it tvro yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boilin 
milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that to the boiling 
stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going! 
boil up; then pour it into a pan, and stir it some time; add 
large spoonful of peach water, two tea-spoonfuls of brandj^, or 
little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard or anything likely i 
: burn, will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it froi 
\ catching. . 

"""Rieli Custards. — Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel an 
cinnamon ; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs we 
beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it euoug 
for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well ; then gi'^ 
the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let 
boil; stir the whole time one way; season as above. If 1 
be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to tt 
eggs. 

Baked Custard.— Boil pne pint of cream and half a pu 
of milk, with mace, cinnamon, and lemon peel, a little of eac] 
When cold, mix the 3'olks of three eggs; sweeten and make yoi 
cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. 

Lemon Custards.— Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they ai 
as white as milk : then put to them a pint of boiling water, tl 
rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to your fast 
Stir it on the fire till thick enougli ; then add a large glass of ric 
w^ine, and half a glass of brandy ; give the w^hole one scald, an 
put it in cups, to be eaten cold. 

Almond. Custard. — Blancli and beat four ounces of almond 
fine with a spoonful of water ; then beat a pint of cream with W 
spoonfuls of rose water, and put them to the yolks of four egt ' 
and as much sugar as will make it prettysw'eet; then add tl 
almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thiol! 
ness ; but do not boil. Pour it into cups. 

Cheesecakes.— Strain the whey from the curd of two quart 
of milk ; w hen rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, an 
mix v.ith six ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded blanch^ 
almonds, a little orange-flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, 
grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg, and cinm 



LEMOX CnEESECAKES— ORANGE CHEESECAKES. 127 

rn in line poT\'der, and beat all tlie above with three eggs, and 
] i' II Dint of cream, till quite light ; then fill the patty-pans three 

]!-[sfll]l. ^ -^, 

il Plainer Sort. — Tiu-n three quarts of milk to curd., break 
^ "I I drain the whey ; when dry, break it up in a pan, M'ith two 
s of butter, till pcrfectl}^ smootli ; put to it a pint and a half , 
lin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, j 
al liiree ounces of currants. 

Cheesecakes, another way. — Mix the curd of three quarts 
( milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a 
.alter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of 
e lemon cliopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of 
dit and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass 
brandy. Put alight thin puff paste in the patty-pans, and 
■68 parts fill them. 

Lemon^ Cheesecakes. — Mix four ounces of sifted lump 
gar, with four ounces of butter, and gentl}^ melt it ; then add 
yolks of two and the wliite of one egg, the rind of three 
nons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, with one Savoy 
jcuit, some blanched almonds pounded, and tliree spoonfuls of 
andy ; mix well : put in paste made as follows : — Eight ounces 
flour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which niLx with the 
ur hrst, then wet it with six si}oonfLds of water, and roll the re- 
ainder in. 

Another way. — Boil two fine large lemons, or three small 
les, and after scjueezing, pound them well together in a mortar, 
ith four ounces of loaf sugar, the 5'olks of six eggs, and eight 
ijQces of fresh butter. 
Fill the patty-pans half full. 

Orange Cheesecakes are done the same way, only you must boil 
e peel in two or three waters to take out the bitterness, or make 
.em of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. 
Orange Cheesecakes. — When you have blanched half a 
Mind oj:' almonds, beat them very fine with orange-flower water, 
id half a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of but- 
r that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must 
s. nearly cold before you use it ; then beat the j^olks of ten, and 
^tes of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one 
ith the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar till as tender as mar- 
'lalade, without any lumps ; and beat the whole together and put 
ito patty-pans. 

;. Potato Cheesecakes. — Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four 
iances of lemon peel ; beat the latter in a marble mortar with 
our ounces of sugar : then add the potatoes, beaten, and four 
lances of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed, let 
i| stand to grow cold. Put crust in patty -pans, and rather more 
lan half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an hour, sifting 
ome double-refined sugar on them when going to the oven.— 
'his quantity will make a dozen. 

Almond 'Cheesecakes.— Blanch and pound four ounces of 
■iveet almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water j then 



12S EOYAL PASTE, CALLED " ATI CHOUX." 

add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, andH 
\vliites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible rj 
into very small patty-pans, and bake in a pretty warm oven vaa 
twenty minutes. ^d 

Another way. — Blanch and pound four ounces of almon 
with a little orange-flower, or rose water ; then stir in the yolks 
six and whites of three eggs, >vell beaten, five ounces of but 
warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the jui 
sweeten with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake i; 
delicate paste, in small pans. 

Another way. — Press the ts hey from as much curd aai 
make two dozen small ones : then put it on the back of a sie 
and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back 
a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and tliree whites of eggs, and a i 
bitter almonds pounded with as much sugar as will make the ci 
properly sweet : mix with it tlie rind of a lemon grated, am 
glass of brand3\ Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minu" 
■will bake them. 

Dough TvTuts. — Eub a quarter of a pound of butter int 
pound of flour, then add six ounces of sugar, three eggs, aboui 
dessert spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it into a s 
paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and cut it into shaj 
with a paste cutter, and boil them in lard, till they are of a n 
brown colour. 

A Tippling Cake. — Put a sponge cake into a deep china 
glass dish, pour round it some wliite wine (raisin is verj' siiitaK 
and a wine glass of braud3^ Let the cake soak up the wine, a 
then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich th 
custard, according to your fancj'. 

Royal Paste, called "Au Choux."— This paste is the ba 
of many sorts of pastry : it is used to mix an infinite number 
second-course dishes of various forms, and of different denm 
nations. 

Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of wst 
pour half a pint of water into it, with a quarter of a pound o 
little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, a 
the peel of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is entir< 
melted. Then take some very fine dry flour and shake througl 
sieve. Take the lemon peel out with a ladle, and throw a har 
ful of flour into the preparation while boiling ; take care, ho 
ever, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir Wi 
a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from t 
stew-pan, and then take it off the fire. jNText break an cgf^ k 
this paste, and mix it well : then break a second, which also mi 
do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but j'ou must 
careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost a 
tain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above qiM 
tity ; then form them e)2 c/ioux, by which is meant in the shape 
a ball an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very mu«c 
you must dress it accordingly', putting the choux on a baki- 
'sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they m 



, OCSERVATIOXS ON DPcESSIXG VEGETAELF.S. 129 

fcndergo a greater effect in tlie oven. Brush ihem over as usual 
ith the dorure or egg-wash, to which has been added a little 
'milk. Put them into an oren moderately hot, but do not open. 
the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, 
lud all attempts to make them rise again would be found 
to be useless : next dry them. Sometimes j^ou may glaze 
tliem ; at other times you may send them up without being 
zhzed. 

To detach them from the baking sheet, apply the sharp edge of 
voiiv knife, and take them off gentl}-. Then make a small open- 
ing on the side, into which put with a tea-spoon such sweetmeats 
IS you think proper, and send them up dished en huisson. 

N.B. — Be cautious to smell every egg before you use it, for a bad one would 
-poil the wliole. 

-^ This elegant receipt is extracted from " The French Cook," by Mr. 
Lde, 



iisi 



VEGETABLES. 

Observations on Dressing Vegetables. 

VJEGETABLES should be Carefully cleaned from insects and nicely 
tvashed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment 
tl^y are done enough. If overboiled, \^h.ej will lose their beauty 
vud crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat, which 
a wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. 

To Boil Vegetables Green.— Be sure the water boils when 
ou ijut the vegetables in. JMake them boil very fast. Do not 
iover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you 
maj' be sure they are done when thej^ begin to sink. Then take 
,kem out immediately, or the colour will change. Hard water, 
?specially if ch;il3'beate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as 
}lK)uld be green. 

•J. To boil them green in hard water, put a tea- spoonful of salt of 
g-prmwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are 
iiit in. 

,1 Vegetable Marrow, to Boil or Stew.— This excellent 
legetable may be boiled as asparagus. When boiled, divide it 
[fiftgthways into two, and serve it up on toast accompanied by 
limited butter ; or -v^hen nearly boiled divide it as above, and stevr 
iently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose 
f^ung ones not exceeding six inches in length. 

To' Keep Green Peas.— Shell, and put them into a kettle of 
rater when it boils ; give them t'vo or three warms only, and pour 
^m into a colander. AYhen the water drains off, turn them out 
a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth 
ko dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles, 
leaving only room to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch 
chick, and for the cork. Eosin it down, and keep it in the cellar 
or i\\ the earth., as will be directed for gooseberries under (he head 
of "■ Keeping for Winter." When they are to be used, boil them 

I 



ISO OESEllYATIOKS OX DEESSING VEGETAELLS. 

till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit <il 

Another way (as practised in the Emperor of Eussia'f 
kitchen). Shell, scald, and dry them as above ; put them on tim 
or earthen dishes in a cool oven, once or twice to harden. Keej 
them in paper bags hung up in the kitchen. When they are to b( 
used, let them lie an hour in water ; then set them on with cole 
water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a spri^ 
of dried mint to boil with them. 

Boiled Peas should not be overdone, nor m much viater 
Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece o 
butter in with them. 

To Stew Green Peas.— Put a quart of peas, a lettuce am 
an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, siilt, and no mori 
water than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew then 
two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, am 
stir it into them, or a bit of flour and butter. 

Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an im 
provement. Gravy may be added, but then there will be less €* 
the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint and stew in them. 

To Stew Old Peas.— Steep them in water all night, if no 
fine boilers, otherwise half an hour M^ll do ; put them into_ wate 
just enough to cover them, with a good bit of butter or a piece c 
beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, ati 
the meat is tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a lifctl ' 
pepper. Serve them round the meat. 

To Dress Artichokes. — Trim a few of the outside leaves of I 
and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil then ; 
They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serv 
them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are art | 
chokes, to help with each. 

Artichoke Bottoms. — If dried they must be soaked, the 
stewed in weak gTavy, and served with or without forcemeat i 
each ; or they may be iDoiled in milk, and served with cream sauci 
or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. •■• 

Jerusalem Artichokes must be taken up the moment the 
are done, or they will be too soft. ^ ^ i 

They maybe boiled plain, or served with white fricassee sauc* 

To Stew Cucumbers. — Slice them thick, or halve and d 
vide them into two lengths ; strew some salt and pepper an 
sliced onions ; add a little broth or a bit of butter. Simmer ve^ 
slowly, and before serving, if no butter was in before, put som 
and a little flour, or if there was butter in, only a little flour, ht 
less it wants richness. 

Another way.— Shce the onions, and cut the cucumbei 
large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter ; then pour ^ 
some good broth or gravy, and stew them till done enough. Skii 
ofi*thefat. ■^-^- 

To Stew Onions. — Peel six large onions ; fry gently of a flu 
brown, but do not blacken them ; then put them into a sma 
stew-pan with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt j cow 



ClULirLOWER IX WHITE SAUCE— liROCCOLI— SPINACH 131 

ind stevr two liours gently'. Tliey should be liglitly floured at 

:.3:St Onions sliould be done witli all tlie skins on. They^\ 
ell alone wirh onJy salt and cold butter, or with roast pota- ' 
•.)!' beetrootf?. 

J Stew Celery. — Wash six heads and strip off" their outer 

i\ ys, either halve or leave them whole, according to their size ; 

u! into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stevr-pan with a 

■y^' of broth or v^-eak wliite gravy, stew till tender; then add two 

uuls of cream and a httle flour and butter, seasoned with 

-r, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. 

_o Boil CauliHowers.— Choose those that are close and 

hire, cut off the green leaves, and look carefuDy that there are 

■erpillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then 

lem in milk and water, and take care to skim the saucepan 

.o. ]iot the least foulness may fail on the flower. It must be 

rved very white and ratlier crisp. 

Cauliiiower in White Sauce.— Half boil it, then cut it into 
i;idsome pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a 
it (jf mace, a little salt, and adust of white pepper; simmer half 
1 hour, then put a httle cream, butter, and flour; shake and 
inuier a few minutes, and serve. 

To Dress Oaiiliflowers and Parmesan. — Boil a cauli- 
ov, er, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will 
;ind upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew- 
lu with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which 
ill be but a few minutes, then dish it with the sauce round, and 
Lii; Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. 
To Dress Broceoli.— Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare 
le tough skin off' them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and 
3il them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put 
ito I he water. Serve with or without toast. 
Spinach requu'es great care in washing and picking it. "VYhen 
tat is done, throw it into a saucepan that will just hold it, 
u'iiikle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be 
■t on the fire, and well shaken. A'VTien done, beat the spinach 
A\ with a small bit of butter : it must come to table pretty 
T, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a 
rge leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is 
I improvement. 

To Dress Beans. — Boil tender with a bunch of parsley, which 
be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must 
rved to eat with, but not boiled with them, 
i^" ricasseed "Windsor Beans.— When grown large, but not 
ealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot ; just 
'n*^ rhem through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, 

L use them for this dish, 
- :iich Beans. — Strinc-, and cut them into four or eight ; the 
■t looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce- 
in boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done 
ive them immediately, to preserve the green colour. " Or when 
I 2 



132 TO STEW RED CABBAGE— MUSHROOMS. 

lialf-done drain tlie water off, and put tliem into two spoonfuls 6 
broth strained ; and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to finisl 
doing tliem. 

• To Stew Red Cabbage. — Slice a small, or half a large rei 
cabbage, Avasli and put it into a saucepan with pepper, salt, 3 
water Ibut what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stewtij 
quite tender ; and ^^ hen going to serve, add two or three spooii 
fuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cdi 
meat, or with sausages on it. 

Another way. — Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it ore i 
a slow iire. with slices of onion, x)epper and salt, and a little plai 
grav3'. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, ad 
a bit of butter rubbed v»ith flour, and two or three spoonfuls ( 
vinegar and boil up. 

Another.— Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the steT* 
pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at th 
bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it ste 
covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little moi 
broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. M: 
these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put 
into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. 

Mushrooms. — The cook should be perfectly acquainted wit 
the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant peopl 
as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessf! 
uf^ing the poisonous kinds. 

The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a roui 
form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper pa 
and stalk are white. As the size increases the under pa 
gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a verj^ fine salmo 
colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gaim 
some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks shou 
be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily part< 
from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yello 
fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have tl 
same smell (but not so strong) as the right soi-t. ^' 

To Stew Mushrooms.— The large buttons are best, and .tl 
small flaps while the fur is still red. Eub the large buttons wi" 
salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off" the skin fro 
the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan wi 
some pepper-corns ; simmer slowly till done, then put a small l 
of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream : give them oi 
boil, and serve with sippets of bread. 

To Stew Sorrel for Pricandeau and Roast Meat. 
Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stoneja 
with no more water than hangs to the leaves. _ Simmer iti 
slow as you can, and when done enough put a bit of butter, a^ 
beatitwel^. 

French Salad. — Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and son 
parsley, small ; put them into a bowl with two table-spoonfuls 
vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. AYhen well mix^ 
add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slice! 



LOBSTER SALAD —TO BOIL, ETC., POTATOES. 133 

at in a few at a time, not exceeding two or three inclies long, 
hake tliem in the seasoning, and then put more ; but cover the 
Dwl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it 
; to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, and a few slices of 
Mie fat, 

■ 1 Lobster Salad. — Make a salad, and put some of the red 
; art of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to 
iie white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as 
'lell-fisli absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, 
iot a bo'Al. 

El To Boil PotatOGS. — Set them on a fire, without paring them, 
i;i cold water ; let them half boil, then throw some salt in and a 
i int of cold water, and let them boil again tiil almost done. Pour 
jL^ffthe water, and put a clean clotli over them, and then the sauce- 
pan cover, a]Kl set tliem by the fire to steam till ready. Many 
Persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is 
Lcclcd, not cut. Do new ijotatoes the same ; but be careful 
^■ley are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before 
^^ressiug, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then 
Hash. 

:' To Broil Potatoes. — Parboil, then slice and broil them. 
( )r parboil, and then set them wJiole on the gridiron over a 
ery slow fire, and when thoroughly done send them up with 
^helr skins on. This last way is' practised in many Irish 
[ amilies. ^i 

; To Roast Potatoes.— Half-boil, take off the thin peel, anc| 
) oast tliem of a beautiful brown. ^' 

; To Fry Potatoes.— Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and 
\:'ry them, either in butter or thin batter. 

j To Masli Potatoes. — Boil the potatoes, peel them, and 
preak them to paste ; then to two pounds of them add a cjuarter 
fjf a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it 
hill well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or place 
[hem on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a sala- 
uander, or in scallops. 

i. Carrots require a good deal of boiling. AVhen young, wipe 
I )ff the skin after they are boiled ; when old, boil them with the salt 
! neat, and scrape them first. 

: To Stew Carrots.- Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice 
.hem into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak \ 
vi-oth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream ; simmer | 
1 till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving, '; 
;i very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with f 
:. .ii. If approved, chopped parsley may be added, ten minutes.' 
ot'i'jre served. 

To Mash Parsnips.— Boil them tender, scrape, then mash 
ihem into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, 
and pepper and salt. ," — y 

Fricassee of Parsnips. — Boil in milk till they are soft, then \ 
cut them lengthways into bits two or three inches long, andsim- 
aicr in a white sauce made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of , 



134 TO HEESS CUARDOONS— SEl KALE— LAYER, 

mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pep^ 
and salt. e 

To dress Chardoons.— Cut them into pieces of six inel* 
long, and put on a string ; boil till tender, and have ready api^ 
of butler in a pan : flour, fry them brovrn, and serve. :(l 

Or, tie them up in bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, o 
toast, and pour butter over them. :I 

Or boil in salt and water, dry, tlien dip them into butter, sA 
fry them. Serve with melted butter. '-3 

Or stew them : boil as directed in last page ; toss them up wit 
a brown or white gravy, add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. TiiiclE-i 
witli a bit of butter and flour. -. 

Beet-rocts. — Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salac 
of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead ( 
being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling and ver 
wholesome. 
_ It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quar 
tity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, a 
follows : — 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pai 
with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar ; simmer till th 
gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, am 
make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender ; tak 
off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot aa< 
clear. 

Or, roast three large onions, and peel off the outer slcin 
till they look clear, and serve the beet-root stewed roun( 
them. 

If beet-root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts witi 
its colour, and looks ill. 

Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordsliire.— Clean an* 
drain a good quantity of spinach leaves, two large handfuls :o 
parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley anc 
onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on t( 
stew with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut 
shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be 
closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is 
served with slices of broiled calves' liver, small rashers of bacon 
and eggs fried : the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate 
dish. 

Sea Kale must be boiled yery white, and served on toast like 
asparagus. 

Laver. — This is a plant that grows on the rocks near the 
sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for 
eating. 

Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, 
and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten 
with roast meat, and is a great sweetener of the blood. It 
is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by 
habit. 

For 



nULES TO BE OBSEPvYED VfllH TICKLES. 135 

French beans, pick tlicni yoim^, and throw into a little vrooden keg 
1 layer of them three inches deep ; then sprinkle them with salt, 
put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as j'ou think 
proper, alternately with salt, bnt not too much of this. Lay over 
iliem a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put 
a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. 
It they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient 
to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, 
cut. soak, and boil them as if fresh. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Beet-roots, should be kept in 
;n- ers of dry sand for winter use : and neither they nor potatoes 
uld be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully 
" from frost. 
Kjtore Onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. 
Parsley should be cut close to the stalks, and dried in a warm 
m, or on tins in a very cold oven ; it preserves its flavour and 
ur, and is very useful in winter. 

Artichoke Bottoins, slovvly dried, should be kept in paper- 
3 ; and TrniEes, Morels, Lemon Peel. &c., in a dry place, 
:eted. 

iiall close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost 

in, will blanch and be very fine after many weeks' keeping. 

^ICKLES.— Biiles to be observed with Pickles.— 

p them closely covered, and have a wooden spoon, with holes, 

I to each jar ; all metals being improper. They should be weU 

kept from the air, the large jars be seldom opened, and small ones 

for the different pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, 

into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely 

covered. 

Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans. 
"When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot 
hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and 
vinegar penetrate the glaze, vrhich is poisonous. 

Lemon Pickle.— Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; 
put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces 
of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and 
Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of 
iiiustard ; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of 
? T hour in a well-tinned saucepan ; or, which is better, do it in a 
.10 jar, in a kettle of boiling water ; or set the jar on the hot 
i iithtili done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; 
keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. 

Indian Pickle. — Lay a pound of white ginger in water one 
'jiight ; then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other 
ingredients shall be residy. 
^ j?eel, slice, and salt a pound of garhc three days, then put it in 
1'::^' sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. 
Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : 
I Quarter some small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, 
I and set them in the sun to dry. 

Cauliflowers cut in the branches ; take off the green from 



136 ENGLISH BAMBOO— 3IEL0N IIAXGOES. 

radislies ; cut celery in tliree-iiieli lengths ; ditto j'oung FreD(jh 
beaDs whole, likewise the slioots of elder, which will look like 
bamboo. Apples and encumbers, choose of the least seedy sor|-j 
cut them in slices, or quarters if not too large. All must be salted^ 
drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter, over which yoii 
must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no 
salt must be used. 

Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed, and 
as much vinegar as 3'ou tlimk enough for the quantity you are tc 
pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be 
read}^ against the vegetables shall be dried. When the.y are 
ready, observe the following directions : — Put some of them mtc 
a two-quart stone jar. and pour over them one quart of boiling 
vinegar. xSext day take out those vegetables, and when drained, 
put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar pour it 
over some more of the vegetables ; let them lie a night, and do as 
before. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the 
dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing ; 
then, to every gallon of vineg;ar put two ounces of flour of mus- 
tard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The 
whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but sgt 
to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. 

This i)ickle will not be ready for a year, but 5"0u may make a 
small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower 
one scald in water after salting and drying as above, but without 
the preparative vinegar ; then pour the vinegar that has the spice 
and garlic, boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the 
vegetables have not swelled properh', boiling tiie pickle and pour- 
ing it over them hot, will i^lump them. 

English Bamboo.— Cut the large young shoots of elder, 
which put out in the middle of May (the middle stalks are most 
tender) ; peel olT the outward peel or skin, and lay them in salt 
and water, very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a 
cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and iDoiled: t<o a 
quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced 
ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder 
shoots in a stone jar; stop close, and set by the fire two hours^ 
turning the jar often to keep it scalding hot. If not green when 
cold, strain off the liquor, and pour it boiling hot again ; keep it 
hot as before. Or, if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above 
shoots arc a great improvement to it, in which case you need only 
pour boiling vinegar and mustard seed on them, and keep thenv 
till your jar of pickles shall be read.y to receive them. The cluster 
of elder-flowers before it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat 
with boiled mutton. It is only done bj' pouring boiling vinegar 
over. 

Melon Mangoes. — There is a particular sort for this purpose 
which the gardeners all know. Cut a small square piece from one 
side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mus-r 
tard-sceds and shred garlic ; stuff the melon as full as the spacer 
will allow, and replace the square small piece. Bind it up with af 
new pack-thread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for 



PICKLED LEMOXS— PICKLED CUCUilBEES. 137 

; |-a?ting, uitli pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the 

^ ii;\ngoes four successive days ; the last, put flour of mustard and 

■ iTi'-iTccl liorse-radish into the vinegar just as it boils up. Stop 

lo.^e. Obs.rve that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are 

i)oi!cd if not well covered. ;&Iarjgoes slioidd be done^ soon aftei 

-. jp\- are gathered. Largo cucumbers, called Green Turley, pre- 

avel as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. 

JMark. the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured 

ji vrr cither sort, the sooner it will be ready. 

||! PJcklsd Lemons.— They sliould be small and -with thick 
[■• nds ; rub them with a piece of flannel, then slit them hpdf down 
[ill four quarters, but not through to the pulp : fill the slits with 
!t lit liard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or live 
! ays until the salt melts, turn them thrice a day in their own 
[. riuid until tender, make enough pickle to cover them of rape 
¥ ineuar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and gmger ; 
f oiland skim it ; when cold put it to the lemons, Avith two ounces 
r f mustard-seed and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. When 
i 10 lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or other 

I Olives are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of dif- 
» }rent sizes and flavour ; each sort should be firm, though some 
i re most fleshy. 
\ Preserve them from the air. 

) Pickled Onions.— In the month of September, choose tlie 
i mail white round onions, take off" the brown skin, have a very 
t lice tin stew-pan of boiling water ready, throw in as many onions 
\ s will cover tlie top ; as soon as they look clear on the outside, 
I ake them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a 
! lean cloth f cover them close with another, and scald more, and 
i on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass, 
f )r wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the best white wine 
I inegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold cover them ; 
I hould tlie outer skin shrivel, peel it ofl". They must look quite 
r lear. 

I To Pickle Cucumbers and Onions Sliced.— Cut them 
[ n slices, and sprmkle salt over them: next day drain them for 
; ive or six hours ; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling 
inetrar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The shces 
lioidd be thick. Eepeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them 
jn again instantly ; and so on till green ; the last time put pepper 
uid i>;in2:er. Keep in small stone jars. 

To Pickle young Cucumbers.- Choose young gherkins, 
spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them he a week ; drain 
li-u, and putting them in ajar, pour boiling vinegar over them. 
- them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves ; if 
•. do not become a tolerable good green, ponr the vinegar into 
'her jar, set it over the liot hearth, and when it boils pour it 
.vrer them aaain, covering with fresh leaves ; and thus do till they 
u-e of as cood a colour as yon wish : but as it is now knov.n that 
-lie very fine gi-een pickles are made so by using brass or bell- 



133 PICKLED WALK UTS— PICKLED MUSHROOMS. 

metal vessels, which, when vinegar is put iiito them, bccofiS 
highly poifionous, few people like to eat them. 

To PicklG Walnuts.— When they will bear a pin to go inti 
them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough j£i 
bear an eg^, on them, being quite cold first. It must bs wteJ 
skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days ; then cliangeth; 
brine, let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour ore 
them in the jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, with 
good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard 
seed, and horse-radish; all boilecl together, but cold. To ever 
hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mustard-seed, an 
two or three heads of garlic or shalot ; but the latter is leas 
strong. 

Thus done, they will be good for several years, if kept clos 
covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to ea 
under six months. 

The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when all the walnuts ar 
used. 

Another way. — Put them into a jar, cover them with th 
best vinegar cold, let them stand four months ; then pour oH' th 
pickle, and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover the walnut; 
adding to every three quarts of vinegar one quarter pound of bes 
Dnrham mustard, a stick of horse-radish sliced, one half ounce c 
black pepper, one half ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, on 
half ounce of allspice, and a good handful of salt ; pour the wholt 
boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close ; they will h 
fit for use in three or four months. You may add two ounces ( 
garlic, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. ' 

Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the fii'st four monthi 
j'ou may make excellent ketchup. 

An excellent Way to Pickle Mushrooms, to preserv 
the Flavour.— Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel an 
salt ; and from the larger take out the red inside, for when the 
are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt ove: 
and put them in a stew-pan, with some mace and pepper ; as tJi 
liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentl 
fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinega 
into the pan as will cover them., give it one warm, and turn a 
into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and ar 
delicious. 

To Pickle Red Cabbage.— Slice it into a colander, aii 
sprinkle each layer with salt ; let it drain two da3^s, then put i 
into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put 
few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cal 
bage. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with tb 
vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thi'own in after beiiiki 
salted, will look of a beautiful red. 

Mushroom Ketchup.— Take the largest broad raushroomf 
break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir the; 
now and then for three days. Then let tliem stand for twelvi 
till there is a thick scum over; slraivi, and boil the hquor wii. 



SWEET BISIIES, PKFSEKVES, SWEET31EATS, ETC. 139 

irnaica and black peppers, mace, stinger, a clove or two, and 
iiie mustard-seed. "NVhen cold, bottle it, aiid tie a bladder over 
(Ork ; in three months boil it again with Fomo fresh spice, 
it Trill then keep a twelvemonth. 

ushroom Ketchup anothsr way.— Take a stew-pan full 
:j-e-flap mushrooms that are not woi-Di-eaten, the skins and 
\- of those you have pickled, throv; a handful of salt among 
. and set them by a slow fire ; they will produce a great deal 
[uor, which you must strain ; and put to it four ounces of 
•is, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, 
-, and a few bay leaves — boil and skim very well. When 
. cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh, 
and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the j^ear, 
li mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second 

'alniit Ketchup of the finest sort.— Boil or simmer a 

n of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, 

skim it well ; then )3ut in two pounds of anchovies, bones and 

r, ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of 

er and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots 

; then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and share 

-pice with each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will 

> twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to 

OSS the juice at home; for it is rarely unadulterated, if 

-ht. Some people make liquor of the outside shell when 

nut is ripe ; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then 

:ae. 

ockle Ketchup. — Open the cockles, scald them in their own 
■r ; add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not 
i 2:h ; strain tlirough a cloth, then season with every savoury 
■ : and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlic; if 
vhite, omit these, and put a glass cf slierrj^ lemon-juice and 
. mace, nutmeg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit 
igar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than 

: dd water ; and tliey are cheap. 
To Keep Capers.— Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, 

nd become cold, and tie them close, to keep out the air, which 

Lialves them soft. 



l^vTBET DISHES, PBESERVES, SWEETMEATS, 
ETC. 

LWEET DISHES.— Buttered Bice.-^Vash and pick 
;oiiie rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to 
'.veji it, over the lire ;when tender, pour off the milk, and add a 
rlt of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that 
t do not burn, and serve. 

fioufae of Eice and Apple.— Blanch Garoliiia rice, strain it, 
md set it to boil in milk, vdth lemon peel and a bit of cinnamon. 
Let it boil till the rice is drv : then cool it, and raise a rim three 



140 SXOW BALLS— A TANSEY— rUITS D' AMOUR. 

int'lies higli round tlic disli ; having egged it wliere it is put-H 

make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half wa 

up with a marmalade of apples ; have ready the whites of foi 

eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade 

then sil't line sugar over it. and set it in the oven, which should t 

warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. I 

/^ Snow Balls. — Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and liavin 

■ pared and cored apples, put the rice round them.tj'iug each upri 

a cloth. Put a bit of lemon peel, a clove, or cinnamon in ead 

.^aud boil them well. 'ji 

^ Lent Potatoes. — Swell three or four ounces of almonds, a» 

three or four bitter, when blanched, putting some orange-iiowc 

water to prevent oiling ; add eight ounces of butter, four egj 

■well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar 1 

your taste. Beat all well till ciuite smooth, and grate in thf( 

Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a httle flour, t± 

size of a chestnut ; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, an 

boil them of a beautiful yellow l)rown. Drain them on a sieve. 

Serve sweet sauce in a boat to eat with them. 

A Tansey.— Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately ;^ £u3 
a pint of cream, the same of spinach-juice, and a little tansey -juit 
gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound ■( 
Is"aples biscuits, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, and son 
nutmeg. Set all in a saucepan, just to thicken, over the fire 
then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it 

Puits d'Amoiir.— Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, wit 
till shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyr; 
midical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a moderate ovei 
that the paste maj' be done sufficientlj^, but very pale. Lay di 
ferer.t coloured sweetmeats on the edges. 

A very nice Dish of Maeearoni dressed Sweet.— Bo 
tv^-o ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a goo 
bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost siz 
w ithout breaking. Lay them on a custard dish, and pour a cui 
lard over them hot. Serve cold. 

Floating Island.— Mix three half-pints of thin cream with: 
quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, oraiige-flo^e 
water, and sugar : put it into a dish for the middle of the tabh 
and put on the cream a froth, as will be directed in page 146 
wliich may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. 

Another way. — Scald a codlin before it is ripe, or any shai") 
apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs witl 
sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water ; mis in by degree 
the pulp, and beat all together until you have a large quantity o 
froth ; serve it on a raspberry cream ; or you may colour the frotl 
with beet-root, raspberry, or currant jelly, and set it on a whit 
cream, having given it the flavour of lemon ; sugar and wine, a 
above ; or, put the froth on a custard. 

/ Flumniery. — Put tlu^ce large handfuls of very small whil; 
/oatir.cal to steep a day and night in cold water : then pour it of 
\clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same timo 



DUTCn FLUMMERY— SOMEr.SETSHIEE PIKMITY. 141 

ain it thrcng-li a fiae hair sieve, and boil till it be as thick as 
hty puddijig- ; stirring it \rell all the time. When lir.-t strained, 
\\t in one largo spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-ilower 

iter. Put it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, 

der milk, or cream and sugar. It is veiy good. 

*'Dutcli Flummery-— Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint 

iid a half of water very gcutl}- half an hour: add a pint of white 

;nc, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a 

I'w lamps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and 

il ith them add as much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough ; 

jtjid having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the 

►eve, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into 

basin ; stir it till half cold ; then let it settle, and put it into a 

elon shape. 

Rice Piuinmery. — Boil v.-ith a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon 
jel, and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour 

will make the Avhole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a 

oonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, 
^serving it do not burn ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking 
it the spice, "W^hen cold, turn the flummery into a dish.^ and 
iTve with cream, milk, or custard round ; or put a tea-cupful of 
•earn into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a 
imon squeezed, and sugar. 

Somersetsliire Firmity. — To a quart of ready-boiled wheat, 
at by degrees two c^uarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and 
len four ounces of currants picked clean and washed ; stir them 
nd boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a 
ttle nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk ; add this to 
le wheat ; stir them together while over the fire ; then sweeten, 
nd serve cold in a deep dish. Sonie persons like it best warm. 

Curds and Cream.— Put three or four pints of milk into a 
an a little warm, and then add rennet or gallino. When the 
ard is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape per- 
Brated, of any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, 
dthoiit breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours 
efore wanted, it is very light ; but those v, ho like it harder may 
ave it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, 

a ^^hip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in. the dish, 

into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. 

Another Way. — To four quarts of new milk warmed, put 
rom a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, according to its sour- 
ness : keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut 
hree or four times across with a saucer ; as the whey leaves it, 
rat it into a ^ape, and fill up until it be solid enough to take the 
(Orm. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and 
lemon. 

' A Curd Star.— Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with 
:wo or three blades of mace ; and, when ready to boil, put to it 
.he yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt 
as will lie upon a small knife's point. Let it boil till the whey is 
:lcar ; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve ; season it with 



112 BL.\:>^C-:>rANGE— GOOSKBESRY OR APPLE TIIIFLE. 

sugar, or a little cinnamon, rose-water, orange-flovrer water,;** 
white wine, to your taste ; and put it into a star form, or m 
other. Let it staucl some hours before you turn it into a diSJ 
then put round it thick cream or custard. '' 

Blanc-mange or Biamange.— Boil two ounces of ising^a 
in three half-pints of water half an hour ; strain it to a pint and 
half of cream ; sweeten it, and add some ])each-water, or a fe 
bitter almonds ; let it boil once up, and put it into what fori 
you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will d 
Observe to let the blamange settle before yon turn it into tl 
forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be ( 
the top of the blamange when taken out of the moulds. 

Jaune-niange. — Pour a pint of boiling vfater over three oune 
of isinglass, and v.hen it is dissolved, add a pint of white wine, tl 
juice of three oranges, and two lemons, the peel of a lemon shr( 
fine ; sweeten this to 3'our taste, and add the yolks of eight egg 
let it simmer gently, strain, and pour into moulds. Tuj'n oi 
next day. 

An excellent Trifle. — Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops ov 
the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as thi 
will suck up, which, when they have done, pour on them cold ri( 
custard made witli more eggs than directed in the foregoing page 
and some rice flour. It must stand two or three inches thick ; ( 
that put a laj'er of raspberry jam, and cover the whole with a vei \ 
high whip, made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of tv 
well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, well beat i 
with a whisk kept only to whip syllabubs and creams. If mac 
the day before used it has quite a different taste, and is solid ai 
far better. 

Gooseberry or Apple TriSe. — Scald such a quantity . 
either of these fruits as, when pulped through a sieve, will make 
thick layer at the bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rin 
of half a lemon grated fine, and to both as much sugar as will I 
pleasant. 

Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk < 
one egg; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; d 
not let it boil ; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. La 
it over the apples with a spoon, and then put on it a whip mad 
the day before, as for other Trifle. 

Ghantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle.— Bake a rice cake in 
mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edg 
with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Pu 
in a thick custard and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, an^ 
then put on a high whip. 

Gooseberry" Fool.— Put the fruit into a stone jar, and som 
good Lisbon sugar ; set the jar on a stove or in a saucepan 
water over the fire ; if the former, a large spoonful of water should 
be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press^ i 
through a colander ; have ready a sufiicient quantity 01 new mill 
and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together ; or an egg instea< 
of the latter, and left to be cold; then sweeten it prettj 



E 



APPLE FOOL— OP.ANGE FOOL— CPvEAMS. 143 

11 with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees 
. -th it. 

f Apple Fool. — Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and 
feu peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c., and mix as 

ifore. 

Orange Fool. — Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three 

Ks Trell beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, 
sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and 
ir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must 
>t be boiled ; then pour it into a dish for eating cold. 
A Cream. — Boil half a pmt of cream and half a pint of milk, 
ith two baj'-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to 
iste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, 
id a tea-spoonful of flour, having been rubbed down vrith a little 
>ld milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little 
mon-juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade 
asses. 

An excellent Cream.— Whip up three-quarters of a pint of 
iry rich cream to a strong froth, with some finel^y-scraped lemon 
3el, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar, 
make it pleasant, but not too sweet ; lay it in a sieve or in a 
rm, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very 
jht puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, 
id about two inches thick, over Vv'hich sugar may be strewed, or 
light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to line 
le edge of the dish. 

Bui'nt Cream.— Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinna- 
lon and some lemon peel ; take it off* the fire, and pour it very 
owly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten, 
d take out the spice, &c. ; pour it into the dish; when cold, 
rew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a sala- 
lander. 

Another way.— Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling 
jmon peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the 
^hole, and brown the top with a salamander. 
Sack Cream.— Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg 
^ell beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and 
^mon peel ; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich 
ream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long 
ieces of dry toast. 

Brandy Cream.— Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and 
punded bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it 
^jB yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and 
Ht to it two glasses of the best brandy ; and when well mixed, 
pur to it a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not 
et it boil ; stir one way till it thickens, then x)Our it into cups, or 
vr glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be 
iit in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the 
ii'eam previously. 

Katafia Cream. — Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine 
.^ves, in a full pint of cream; strain it, and when cold add the 



144 le:mon cream— almond cream— coffee cream. 

yolks of three crxgs beaten and strained, sngar, and a large spA 
fill of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring rt 
the time. 

Another way.— ]\Iix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia^l 
same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of t'.vo or three lemb 
a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasan 
flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. 'J^. 
cream will keep eight or ten days. ^ 

Lemon Cream. — Take a pint of thick cream, and put ^ 
the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, a 
the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up, then stir it till almost col 
put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl and pour the cr^i 
upon it, stirring it till quite cold. 

Yellow Lemon Cream without Cream.— Pare fo 
lemons verj^ thin into twelve large spoonfuls of water, and squee 
the juice on seven ounces of finely-pounded sugar : beat the yol 
of nine eggs well ; add the peels and juice beaten together i 
some time ; then strain it through a flannel iiito a silver or ve 
nice block-tin saucepan; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it o 
way till pretty thick and scalding hot, but not boiling or it w 
curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar shop 
be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, 
the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and t 
sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. 

White Lemon Cream is made the same as the above, on 
put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, -nhisking it £ 
tremely well to froth. 

Imperial Cream. — Boil a quart of cream with the thin r^i 
of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish 
bowl that you are to servo in, ilie juice of three lemons strain^ 
with as much sugar as vrill sweeten the cream, which pour in 
the dish from a large teapot, holding it high and moving it abo 
to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours bafp. 
it be served, and will be still better if a day. 

Almond Cream. — Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonfiil of water to previS 
oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to a qua 
of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; bei 
it up wiih a whisk to a froth, which take ofl" en the shallo 
part of a sieve ; fill glasses vrith some of the liquor and tl 
froth. 

Snow Cream. — Put to a quart of cream the whites of thr< 
eggs well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to yoi: 
taste, and a bit of lemon peel ; whip it to a froth, remove the pee 
and serve in a dish. 

Coffee Cream, much admired.— Boil a calf's foot in vrate 
till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make 
tea-cup of very strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass taC 
perfectly bright ; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very gooj 
cream, and as mucJi fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant ; give one broi 
up, and pour into the dish. 



;■ CHOCOLATE CREAM— CODLIN CREAM— ORA^^GE CREAM. 145 

^ i It sliould jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be 
[jresh. 

fl Chocolate Cream. — Scrape into one quart of thick cream, 
I I'ne ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of 
tlugar; boil and mill it; Tvhen quite smooth take it off, and 
ibaVe it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk; 
find take up the froth, on sieves, as others are done; and serve 
[ ihe froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. 
[ Codlin Cream.^Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat 
ihem in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; 
ind put sugar, bread crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. Stir 
i: well. 

ti Excellent Orange Cream.— Boil the rind of a Seville 
I range very tender; beat it fine in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful 
/f the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of 
oaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat all together for ten 
iiinutes ; theu, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling 
iream; beat till cold; put into custard cups set into a deep 
tish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put 
jt the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved 
jhips. 

{ Raspberry Cream.— Mash the fruit gently, and let them 
jjain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce 
lore juice; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it ; 
fter which, if you choose to lower it with some milk it will not 
iirdle ; which it would, if put to the milk before the cream ; but 
; is best made of raspberry jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh 
Tiit cannot be obtained. 

Another way. — Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings in three 
ints of cream and new mdk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until 
le former be melted, and strain it through a hair-sieve into a 
asin ; when cool put about half a pint of raspberry -juice, or syrup, 
> the milk and cream : stir it till well incorporated ; sweeten 
nid add a glass of brandy , whisk it about till three parts cold ; 
len put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh 
lice j in winter, syrup of raspberries. 

Spinach Cream.— Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden 
>oon or a whisk ; sweeten them a good deal ; and put to them a 
ick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of 
milk ; stir it well ; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach- 
; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it on3 way constantly till 
; is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard dish some 
Taples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the 
lixtm-e over them. It is to be eaten cold ; and is a dish either 
>t supper, or for a second course. 

Pistachio Cream. — Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; 
eat them fine with a little rose water, and add the paste to a pint 
licream ; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. 
'Clouted Cream. — String four blades of mace on a thread ; 
at them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose water ; 
tomer a few minutes ; then by degrees stu' this liquor strained 

K 



lie A CAEMEL COVER FOB SWEETMEATS. 

into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole ia^ 
a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire : stir it till hsi 
but not boiling hot ; pour it into a deep dish, and let it staia* 
twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruiti 
Many i3eople prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream 
in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it 4 
the Devonshire scalded cream. '-' 

When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface c 
the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, whid; 
in the country they call the ring ; and when that is seen, remot 
the pan from the fire. 

A Frotli to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle, wMq! 
looks and eats well. — Sweeten half a pound of the pulp <; 
damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites i 
four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp up with them until it m 
stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c 
with a spoon, it will take any form ; it should be rough, to imitat 
a rock. 

A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats.— Dissolve eight ounce 
of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of water, and thre 
or four di'ops of lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper untinne 
skillet ; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in r 
and put that in a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from tL 
spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a b: 
out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it : 
done enough ; but only let it be three parts cold ; then pour tb 
water from the sugar, and having a copper form well oiled, ru 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you ma 
put it on the dish it is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is nc 
brittle, pour ofi* the water, and return it into the skillet and bo 
it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright ligl 
gold colour. It is a most elegant cover. 

Calf's Feet Jelly. — Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint ( 
water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strai 
it ; when cold take ofi" the fat, and remove the jelly from the sed 
ment ; then put it into a saucepan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemor 
juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour i 
rich, put it to the whites of five eggs well beaten and their shell 
broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jell, 
after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rise 
to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly bag, first dippip, 
the bag into hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quit 
dry. Rub the jelly through and through till clear; then put i 
into glasses or forms. 

The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing of jelly 
When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea 
cupful of cold water : let it boil five minutes longer ; then tafc- 
the saucepan off" the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour 
after which it will be so clear as to need only once running througl 
the bag, and much waste will be saved. 

Observe, feet for all jeUies are boiled so long by the people wht 



^1 OEANGE JELLY— HARTSHOEN JELLY— APPLE JELLY. 147 

' I 
i 



eil tliem that they are less nutritious : they should be only 
calded to take off the hair. The liquor Mill require greater care in 
emoving the fat ; but the jeUy wiU be far stronger, and, of course, 
llow more water. 

A'Ote. — Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as 
ley bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this ob- 
;rvation may be useful. 

Another way.— Boil four quarts of water with three calf's 
3et, or two cow-heels that have been only scalded, till half wasted ; 
ako the jelly from the fat and sediment : mix with it the juice of a 
leville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the 
i'hites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint 
^f raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce 
Ljf allspice, a bit of cinnamon and six cloves, all bruised, after 
leaving previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen 
(linutes without stirring ; then clear it through a flannel bag. 
|¥hile running, take a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of 
j.ater, in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it 
{hrough the bag when all the rest is run out ; and this is 
jo garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate ; but this 
3 matter of choice. The jelly has a very fine high colour and 
Jlavour, 

I Orange Jelly.— Grate the rind of two Seville and two China 
S)ranges, and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each, and 
J train, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, 
iind a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. 
*ffave ready a quart of isinglass-jelly made with two ounces ; put 
;lo it the syrup, and boil it once up ; strain off the jelly, and let it 
U';tand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. 
P Hartshorn Jelly. — Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shav- 
tjngs with two quarts of water to only one ; strain it, and boil it 
■Jivith the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin ; 
ijvhen cold, add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, and the 
^khites of six eggs beaten to a froth; let the jelly have three or 
! j-Qur boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly bag. 
fi Cranberry Jelly.— Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When 
[Cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed, 
f jjweeten and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. 
^ The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. 
I, Cranberry and Rice Jelly.— Boil and press the fruit, strain 
( :,he juice and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, 
[when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirrmg it, and 
tisweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat 
ks the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. 
.\ Apple Jelly to serve at Table.— Prepare twenty golden 
(pippins ; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, 
till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a colander, and 
to every pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or 
lemon ; then boil to a jelly. 

Another. — Prepare apples as before by boiling and strammg; 
! have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water 

k2 



148 STEWED GOLDEN PIPPINS— STEWED PEAES. r 

to a jelly; put this to the apple water and apple, as strain«d 
tlirough a coarse sieve ; add sugar, a Uttle lemon juice and pee|s 
boil all together, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. i; 

To Scald Codlins. — Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack their 
close in a nice saucepan ; and when full, pour as much water as 
will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmw 
slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Pla6( 
them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or custard; if tbn 
latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over thi 
apples. ,i' 

Stewed Golden Pippins. — Scoop out the core, pare then 
very fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. For ever pouw 
of fruit make half a pound of single refined sugar into syrup wit! 
a pint of water ; when skimmed, put the pippins in, and stew til 
clear ; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be carefu 
not to let them break. _ i 

They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or dessert. 

Black Caps. — Halve and core some fine large apples, put then 
in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil j 
glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. 

Another way. — Take ofi" a slice from the stalk end of somt 
apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as mud 
sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with som< 
grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes a 
close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down on a stew 
pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half a pint of raisin wine 
and the same of water : cover them close, and now and then bast 
them with the hquor ; when done enough, black the tops with : 
salamander. ■ t 

Stewed Pears. — Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, SLt' 
cording to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is takei 
off before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pad 
them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much suga 
over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon peel, a clovt 
or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cover them with water 
and put some of the red liquor, as directed in another article 
Cover them close, and stew three or four hours ; when tender, takt 
them out, and pour the liquor from them. 

Baked Pears. — These need not be of a fine sort; but somi 
taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to ew 
raw. Wipe, but do not pare, and lay them on tin plates, anc 
bake them in a slow oven. When done enough to bear it, flattei 
them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on i 
dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently 

Orange Butter. — Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortal 
with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and twc 
ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten witi 
orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub it through £ 
colander on a dish, and serve sv>eet biscuits between. 

Wine Rolls. — Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till i1 
will hold no more ; put it in tho dish, and pour round it a custard. 



ICE WATEKS— CITERAXT OH HASPBEr.RY ICE. 149 

>r cream, sng"ar, and lemon juice. Just before it be served, 
prinkle over it some nonpareil comfits ; or stick a few blanched 
plit almonds into it, 

Spono:e biscuits may be used instead of the roll. 

To Prepare Fruit for Children, a far more wholesome 
jway than in Pies and Puddings. — Put apples or pears, sliced, 
lums. currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar, and sprinkle as 
iiuch Lisbon sugar as is necessarj^ among them; set the jar on a 
lot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let iifc remain till the 
ruit is perfectl}' done. 

Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the fruit, or 
tdded, when eaten : the rice being plain boiled. 

To Prepare Ice for Icing. — Get a few pounds of ice, break 
t almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of salt among 
t. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of 
he warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The ice and 
alt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover 
t J immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to 
ouch ever}- possible part. 

In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, re- 
Qoving the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the 
ee-cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move 
ke whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without 
Klnger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let off 
he ice as it thaws. 

■A'ote. — AVheii any fluid tends towards cold, the mere moving it quickly ac- 
elerates tlie cold ; and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it 
rill facilitate its boiling. 

Ice Waters.— Eub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to 
5ive the colour and flavour, then sgueeze the juice of either on its 
■espective peel ; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and 
irain. it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater 
proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little of 
Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. 
•^rOurrant or Raspberry Water Ice. — The juice of these, or 
if^' other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and 
nised with water, will be ready for icing. _ 

Ice Creams. — Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar 
B will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a 
niddUng richness. 

b3ro"wn Bread Ice. — Grate as fine as possible stale brown 
jread, soak a small proportion La cream two or three hours, 
iweeten and ice it. 

, Ratafia Cream. — Blanch a quarter ounce of bitter almonds, 
jeat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar ; then 
mb with the paste two ounces of lump sugar, and simmer ten 
ilinates with a tea-cupful of cream, which add to a quart more of 
a*eam, and having strained, ice it. 

^ Colourings to stain Jellies, Ices, or Cakes.— For a beau- 
t^ul 7'ed, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with 
l^dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very 



150 LONDON SYLLABUB— LEMON HONEYCOMB. 

slowly, lialf an hour ; add in boiling a bit of alum the size ojf jj 
pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some Hquor poured over. vj. 

For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop oj 

water; or use cream. ^ t 

^ For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron, steeped in tli« 

liquor and squeezed. 

For green, pounded spinach leaves or beet leaves, express th( 
juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a saucepan of water to take oj 
tlie rawness. 

London Syllabub. — Put a pint and a half of port or whi& 
wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, the? 
milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine b< 
not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk.- 
In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded ein 
namon and sugar. 

Staffordshire Syllabub. — Put a pint of cider, and a glass o 
brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl and milk into it ; or po^ 
warm milk from a large teapot some height into it. f 

A very fine Somersetshire Syllabub. — In a large chia 
bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine 
sugar to taste. Milk the bowl fuU. In twenty minutes' time cove 
it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, pu 
pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. . 

Devonshire Junket. — Put warm milk into a bowl ; turn i 
with rennet ; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamo 
on the top, without breaking the curd. 

Everlasting, or Solid Syllabubs.— Mix a quart of thic 
raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fin 
raisin wine in a deep pan ; put to it the grated peel and the juic 
of three lemons. Beat or whisk it one way half an hour : the 
put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the sha 
low end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in 
cool place, ten days. 

Lemon Honeycomb. — Sweeten the juice of a lemon to yo« 
taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white < 
an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar 
whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon juice. Do : 
the day before it is to be used. 

Rice and Sago Milks are made by washing the seeds nicelj 
and simmering with milk over a slow fire till sufiiciently dont 
The former sort requires lemon, spice, and sugar ; the latter i 
good without anything to flavour it. 

A very Pretty Supper Dish.— Boil a tea-cupful of rice | 
having first washed it, in milk, till tender : strain ofi' the milt 
lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finel 
powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine and a littl 
butter into the dish. 

Savory Rice. — Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gentl. 
in a small quantity of veal or rich mutton broth, with an ouior 
a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boilei 
to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire, am 



f! CAEEOLE OF EICE— SALMAGTJNDY— MACAEONT. 151 

Ither serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the 
-avy round, having heated it. , • n 

Carrole of Rice.— Take some well-picked rice, wash it well 
id boil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- 
Ban, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion, 
tew it over a very gentle fire till tender ; have ready a mould 
ned with very thin shces of bacon ; mix the yolks of two or three 
^gs with the Vice, and then line the bacon with it about half an 
„ch thick ; put into it a ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any- 
ling else. Fill up the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake 
i in°a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a 
ood gravy or curry-sauce. 
Casserol, or Bice Edging, see page 102. 
Salmagundy is a beautiful small dish, if m nice shape, and 
the colours of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose 
hop separately the white parts of cold chicken or veal, yolks of 
ggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half a dozen an- 
hovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham and grated tongue, 
r anything well flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people 
ike a small proportion of onion, but it may be better left out. A 
aucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a srnall 
lish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing 
mailer towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each 
ow as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of 
mled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without anything on the dish, 
he salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites 
if ega-s, which "may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at 
.he round end. In the latter case, each half egg has but one mgre- 
iient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. 
Macaroni as -usually served.— Boil it in milk, or a weak 
_.eal broth, pretty well flavoured with salt. When tender, put it 
into a dish without the hquor, and among it put some bits of but- 
ter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little 
more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, 
but do not let the top become hard. -, , p -n 

Another way.— Wash it well, and simmer it m half milk, and 
half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of 
this hquor. put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of creani ; 
just make it hot to thicken but not boil ; put it over the macaroni, 
and then grate some fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. 
Brown with the salamander. . . 

Another.— Wash the macaroni, then shumer it in a little 
broth, with a little pounded inace and salt. AYhen quite tender, 
take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese 
over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter 
without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a httle earthen 
colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven, to 
xoast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread 
should be in separated crumbs, and look fight. ^ 

Omelet.— Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little 
flour ; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the 



152 EAMAKIXS— POTTED CHEESE— WELSH BABBIT. 

latter is best), or a very small quantity of slialot, a little peppiS 
salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boil in- 
small frying-pan, and pour the above batter into it ; when o^ 
side is of a fine yellow-brown, turn it and do the other. Doubl 
it when served. Some scraped lean ham. or grated tongue, pu 
in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make^ 
pretty sized omelet ; but many cooks will use eight or ten. ^k 
small proportion of flour should be used. -^ 

If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine flavoA 
A good deal of parsley should be used. 

Eamakins and omelet, though usually served in the coutIr 
would be much better if they were sent up after, that they mi^ 
be eaten as hot as possible. ,^ 

Butter to serve as a little dish.— Eoll butter in difFeren 
forms ; either like a pine and make the marks with a tea-spoo? 
or rolling it in crimping rollers, work it through a colander, ^ 
scoop with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue, or as 
chovies. Make a wreath of curled parslej' to garnish. 

Kamakins. — Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, an 
ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter ; then b(^ 
all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of 
small Freuch roll boded in cream till soft ; mix the paste with th 
whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small pape 
pans made rather long than square, and bake in a Dutch oven ti: 
of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like th 
addition of a glass of white wine.— The batter for ramakins i 
equally good over macaroni when boiled tender ; or on stewe< 
brocoli, celery, or cauliflower, a little of the gravy thej^ have bee 
stewed in being put in the dish with them, but not enough to mak 
the vegetable swim. 

Potted Cheese. — Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshir 
cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of whit 
pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wia^ 
Press it down in a deep pot. 

_r Roast Cheese to come up after Dinner.— Grate threi 
/ ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs 
I four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of b'utter ; beat the 
I whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and'i 
I little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into propei 
' pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them into a Dutch over 
covered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let tht 
cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. 

Melted Cheese. — Take two ounces of good Cheshire, and twc 
ditto of Parmesan cheese, grate them, and add about double the 
weight of each in beaten yolks of eggs and melted butter, mix 
them well together, add pepper and salt to your taste, and then 
put to it the white of the eggs, which have been beaten separately ; 
stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, filled but half full, 
as it will rise very much. Serve when quite hot. 

Welsh Rabbit. — Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and 
butter it ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay 



CHEESE TOAST — ANCHOVY TOAST— BrTTEEED EGGS. 153 

,t next the bread, and toast tlie other with a salamander ; rub 
ptard over, and serve very hot. and covered. 
Uiieese Toast. — Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and 
t, into a mass ; spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and grate 
scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. 

Inchovy Toast. — Bone and skin six or eight anchovies ; 
md them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour 
Hiual, and then S])read it on toasts or rusks. 
SLiiother way. — Cut tliin slices of bread into any form, and 
them in clarified butter. AVasli three anchovies, split, pound 
>m in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a 
r sieve, and spread it on the toast when cold. Then quarter 
1 wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish 
th parsley or pickles. 

To Poach. Eggs. — Set a stew-pan of water on the fire ; when 
ling, slip an e^^g, previously broken in a cup, into the water ; 
en the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under the 
?, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As soon as enough 
i done, serve hot. If not fresh laid, they will not poach well, 
i without breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites, and 
ike them look round. 

Buttered Eggs. — Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white 
jether, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then 
t that in boiling water, stir it till melted ; then pour that but- 
' and the eggs into a saucepan : keep a basin in your hand, just 
Id the saucepan in the other, over a slow part of the fire, shaking 
me way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin and back ; 
m hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce- 
n, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectlj^ to mix the egg 
d butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. _ 
Serve on toasted bread : or in a basin, to eat with salt fish, or 
1 herrings. 

Scotch Eggs. — Boil hard five pullets' eggs, and without re- 
)ving the white, cover completely with a fine relishing force- 
jat, in which let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy, bear a due 
^portion. Fry of a beautiful j^ellow brown, and serve with a 
od gravy in tlic dish. 

A. Pepper-pot. — To three quarts of water, put such vege- 
)les as you choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two 
three onions ; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celer3^ 
it them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of 
itton, and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an 
ur before serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put 
into the stew. Some people choose very small suet-dumplings 
iled in the above. Season it with salt and Cayenne. 
Instead of mutton you may put a fowl. Pepper-pot may be 
ide of various things, and is understood to be a proper mixture 
lish. flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. A small quantity of 
?e should be boiled with the whole. 

The Staffordshire Dish of Frying Herbs and Liver. 
Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vege- 



151 TO GREEN FRUITS FOE TRESERYING OR PICELING. 

tables, page 134 : on wliicli laj'- slices of liver fried a beauti| 
brown, and slices of bacon jnst warmed at the fire, and laid^ 
each. On the outside part of the herbs laj'- eggs fried very niofl3 
and then trimmed round ; or they may be served on the herl 
and the liver garnished with the t3acon separately. ,; 

To Preserve Suet a Twelvemonth.— As soon as it coni 
in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins..,.' 
a very nice saucepan, set it at some distance from the fire, that 
may melt without frying, or it will taste. 

When melted, pour into a pan of cold water. When in a ha 
cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a lia 
bag, and keep it in a'dry but not hot place. When used, sera 
it fine, and it will make a fine crust, either with or withe 
butter. 

SWEETMEATS.— To Green Fruits for Preserving 
Pickling. — Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches wh 
green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, a 
cucumbers for both processes ; and put them, with vine-lea^ 
under and over, into a hloch-tin preserving-pan, with spru 
water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. » 
it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take th 
off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves wl 
cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slii 
they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts 
the several modes. 

To Clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats.— Break as much 
required in large lumps, and put a pound to half a pint of wa 
in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when broken small. \ 
it over the fire, with the well-whipt white of an Qgg ; let it boil 
and, when ready to run over, pour a Httle cold water in to giy 
a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, { 
set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during which 
foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black scum oa 
top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and pour the sy] 
into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. 

To Candy any Sort of Fruit.— AVhen finished in the syr 
put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot wa 
to take off tlie syrup that hangs about it ; put it on a napkin 
fore the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. H 
ready sifted clouble-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on 
sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves i 
slightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must 
be cold till dry. Watcli it carefuUy, and it will be beautiful. 

To prepare Barberries for Tartlets.— Pick barben 
that have no stones, from the stalks, and to every pound we 
three quarters of a pound of lump ^ugar ; put the fruit int 
stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a saucepaE 
water, and let them simmer very slovrly till soft ; put them t 
the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boU them gently fift 
min utes. Use no metal but silver. 

Barberries in Bunches.— Have ready bits of ilat trl 



fl A BEAUTIFUL PEESEEVE OP APEICOTS. 155 

3od tliree inclies long and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the 
alks of the fruit on the stick from within an inch of one end to 
fyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer 
era in some syrup two^ successive days, covering them each time 
ith it when cold. AVlien they look clear, they are simmered 
ougli. The third day do them like other candied fruit. See 
ceipt for it p. 154. 

A Beautiful Preserve of Apricots.— When ripe choose 
e finest apricots ; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. 
ly them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards, 
ave ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, 
;d strew it over them ; in the meantime break the stones and 
anch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, 
th the sugar and juice and also the kernels, into a preserving- 
n. Let it simmer very gently till clear ; then take out the 
eces of apricots singly as they become so, put them into small 
ts and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must 
I taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. 
To Preserve Aprioots in Jelly. — JPare the fruit very thin 
d stone it ; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder 
.d strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, 
ove them into a bowl and pour the liquor over. The following 
ly pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling 
d straining, and a pound of fine sugar ; let it boil quickly till it 
ill jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and 
it into small pots. 

To Preserve Green Apricots. — Lay vine or apricot leaves 
the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, 
le upper laj^er being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring- 
ater, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan 
; a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be 
ly soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the 
ater, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit 
to the pan and the syrup to it ; put the pan at a proper distance 
•om the fire till the apricots green, but on no account boil ^or 
•ack ; remove them very carefullj' into a pan witli the syrup for 
vo or tliree days ; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, 
id boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little 
iced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been 
rained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will 
a-ve to sweeten pies. 

Apricots or Peaches in Brandy.— Wipe, weigh, and pick 
Le fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in 
ne powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close ; 
irow the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy, 
between the top and the cover of the pot put a piece of double- 
ap paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of water till the brandy 
e as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it 
lUst not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on 
;, When cold put a bladder over, arid tie it down tight. 
To Dry Apricots in Half.— Pare thin and halve four pounds 



156 ORANGE MAEMALADE— LEMON MARMALADE. 

of apricots, weighing them after ; put them in a dish 
among them three pounds of sugar in the finest iDowder. "V 
it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently ; as each pi 
becomes tender, take it out and put it into a china bowl. W 
all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the sy^ 
over them. In a day or t\YO remove the syrup, leaving only a li^ 
in each half. After about a day or two more turn them, and,j 
continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. L.^ 
in boxes with^ layers of paper. r" 

Apricot Cheese. — Weigh an equal quantity of pared ij^ 
and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly^^ 
the colour will be spoiled ; blanch the kernels, and add to;j 
Twenty or thirty minutes -nill boil it. Put it in small pots or ciu 
half filled. 

Orange Marmalade.— Easp the oranges, cut out the pi^; 
then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mort^ 
Boil three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, aE 
add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is ver.y thick, bi 
stir it carefully ; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the see'( 
having been removed, and a pint of apple-liquor ; boil all gent 
until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put, 
into small pots. ., 

Lemon Marmalade do in the same way ; they are very got 
and elegant sweetmeats. , 

Transparent Marmalade. — Cut the palest Seville orangj 
in quarters, take the pulp out and put it in a basin, pick out B 
seeds and skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a little sa 
all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring-water t: 
tender ; drain and cut them in ver}'^ thin slices, and put them ; 
the pulp ; and to every pound, a pound and a half of double-r 
fined sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twenty minutes, bi 
be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer ^ 
or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very genjj 
When cold, put it into glasses. ^j 

To Butter Oranges Hot.— Grate ofi" a little of the outsK 
rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt en' 
opposite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp, seeds, ^r 
juice; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp; rub tl 
oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short tim 
You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in frei 
water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitfee 
ness. In the meantime make a thin syrup with fine sugar, ax 
put the oranges into it and boil them up, turning them round tlu 
each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enoue 
to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till the}^ are to t 
served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugj 
to the pulp, and set over the fire ; mix it well, and let it boi) 
then add a spoonful of white wine for ever3^ orange, give it a boi 
and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire 1 
thicken it ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some< 
the syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. 



TO FILL PEESEEVED OEANGES— OBANGE CHIPS. 157 

To Fill Preserved Oranges (a Corner Dish).— For five, 
ke a pound of Naples biscuits, some blanclied almonds, the yolks 
'four eggs well beaten, sugar to your taste, and four ounces of 
itter warmed, grate the biscuits, and mix -well with the above 
me orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a 
?ry slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as 
on as filled, otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well ; 
so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become 
Id. 

Whole Oranges Carved. — Cut on the rinds any shapes you 
ease with a penknife, cut a bit ofi*near and round the stalk, and 
ith an apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out ; put them into 
It and ■nater two dnys, changing it daily ; boil them an hour or 
ore in fresh water and salt, drain them quite dry ; let them stand 
night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin 
Tup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this 
ur days successivel3^ Let them stand six or seven weeks, ob- 
rving often whether they keep well, otherwise boil the syrup 
ram. Then make a rich syrup. 

Buttered Orange Juice (a Cold Dish),— Mix the juice of 
ven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rosewater, and add 
e whole to the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, well 
jaten ; then strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, 
ir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about 
e size of a small walnut of butter : keep it over the fire a few 
inutes longer, then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat 
>ld. 

If you have no silver saucepan, do it in a china basin in a 
ucepan of boiling water, the top of which will just receive the 
isin. 

Orange Chips. — Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice 
irough a sieve ; soak the peel in water ; next day boil it in the 
me till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the 
ace, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad 
u-then dish, and place over the fire at a moderate distance, often 
irring till the chips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. 
hey wiU not be so under three weeks. 

Orange Biscuits, or Little Cakes.— Boil whole Seville 
•anges in two or three waters, till most of the bitterness is gone ; 
it th.em, and take out the pulp and juice ; then beat the outside 
dry fine in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double- 
jfined sugar beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to 
paste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun or 
efore the fire ; when half dry, cut it into what form you please, 
jm the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box, with 
>yers of paper. 

-They are for desserts ; and are also useful as a stomachic, to 
irry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemeii when shooting, 
nd for gouty stomachs. 

Orange-flower Cakes. — Put four ounces of the leaves of the 
owers into cold water for an hour ; drain, and put between nap- 



168 TO PRESEIIVE ORAXGES OP. LEMONS IN JELLY. 

kins, and roll -^itli a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; then havseS 
ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, givaul 
them a simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of the paajcJ 
drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. . a 

To Preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelly.— Cut a holar 
in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small 
knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. 
Tie each separately in muslin, and lay them in spring water twoo 
days, changing twice a day ; on the last boil them tender on aii 
slow fire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wasfe 
ing;, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of frui^ 
weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar and one pint of water^ 
boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrap, 
and clarify it ; skim well, and let it stand to be cold ; then boil 
fruit in the syrup half an hour ; if not clear do this daily till the;fc 
are so. _ [u 

Pare and core some green pippins and boil in water till it tastes- 
strong of them ; do not break them, only gently press them with, 
the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite . 
clear ; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined suga,r, th&'i 
peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain o$ 
the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hoW 
upwards in ajar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out 
must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with 
brandy paper. 

To Keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, &c.-^. 
When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, withoufe^ 
the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding ni 
more : boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when 
they are tolerably dry, tlirow them into any jar of candy you majCii 
have remaining from old sweetmeats ; or if you have none, boil i 
small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water and pt" 
over them : in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it till thi 
look clear ; and that they may be covered with it in the jar, y< 
may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy bt 
small space. 

To Preserve Strawberries Whole.— Take equal wei^ 
of the fruit and double-refined sugar ; lay the former in a large 
dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over ; give a 
gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under side 
of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of 
the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pound of red currant 
juice to every pint of strawberries; in this simmer them until 
sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when 
not dead ripe. In either of the above ways they eat well served m 
thin cream, in glasses. ■,/ 

To Preserve Strawberries in Wine.— Put a quantity clj 
the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry -bottle, and streliij 
in three large spoons of fine sugar ; fill up with Madeira wine, «tei^ 
fine sherry. Hi 

To Dry Cherries with Sugar.— Stone six pounds ol 



TO DRY CHERRIES WITnOTJT SUGAR— CHERRY JAM. l59 

Kentish; put them into a preserving-pan, with two pounds of 
loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them ; simmer till they 
begin to shrivel ; then strain them from the juice ; lay them on 
a hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool enough to dry 
without baking them. 
The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. 
To Dry Cherries without Sugar.— Stone, and set them 
over the fire in the preserving-pan ; let them simmer in their own 
liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in common 
i china dishes ; next day give them another scald, and put them, 
1 when cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of a temperate heat as 
above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. 
Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. 
To Dry Cherries the best way .—To every five pounds of 
cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double-refined. Put the fruit 
into the preserving-pan with very little water ; make both scald- 
; ing hot ; take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them 
; into the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of 

I cherries ; let it stand to melt ; then set the pan on the fire, and 
make it scalding hot, as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice 
with the sugar. Drain them from the syrup, and lay them singly 
; to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them 
into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it instantly 
't out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set 
[ them once more in the hot sim, or on a stove. Xeep them in a 
? box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is 
the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and 
flavour. 

Cherries in Brandy.— Weigh the finest morellas, having cut 

off half the stalk prick them rdth a new needle, and drop them 

. into ajar or vride-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight 

■ of sugar or white candy ; strew over ; fill up with brandj^ and tie 

a bladder over. 

Cherry Jam. — To twelve pounds of Eentish or duke cherries, 

I when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar ; break the stones of part, 

\ and blanch the kernels ; then put them to the fruit and sugar, and 

f boil all gently till the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into 

I china plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white 

1 paper between. 

Currant Jam, Black, Red, or White.— Let the frait be 
very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every 
pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; stir it well, 
and boil half an hour. 

Currant Jelly, Red or Black.— Strip the fruit, and strew 
<■ them in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or boil them on the 
hot hearth ; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound 
of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or 
china vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserving-pan ; 
simmer and skim as necessary. When it will jeUy on a plate, put 
it in small jars or glasses. 
t Apple Marmalade.— Scald apples tiU they will pulp from 



160 RED APPLES ly JELLY— DRIED APPtES. 

the core ; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps ; k 
clip them in water, and boiling it up till it can be Avell skimme 
and IS a thick syrup, put it to the pulp, and simmer it on a qui 
hrc a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon peel before boile 
but if too much it will be bitter. 

Apple Jelly for Preserving Apricots, or for any so 
ot Sweetmeats.— Let apples be pared, quartered, and core, 
put them mto a stew-pan with as much water as will cover then 
boil as fast as possible ; when the fruit is all in a mash, add 
quart of water: boil half an hour more, and run through a jell 
bag. 

If in summer, codlins are best ; in September, golden rennets 
winter pippins. 

Red Apples in Jelly.— Pare and core some well-shap. 
apples, pippins or golden rennets, if you have them, but ofche 
Will do ; throw them into water as you do them : put them in 
preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cov 
them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, tu] 
them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put i 
Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with tl 
fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they a 
to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water, and mal 
a rich jelly of It with loaf sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice 
a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it c 
and among the apples ; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strip 
and put it across the eye of the apple. 

Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the fruit w 
not afterwards gain it, and use as little of the cochineal as wi 
serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. 

Dried Apples.— Put them in a cool oven six or seven time 
and flatten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough 1 
bearit. If the oven be too hot, they will waste and first 
should be very cool. 

The biffin, the minshul crab, o any tart apple are the son 
for drying. 

To Preserve Jargonel Pears most beautifully.— Pat 
them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; let them lie a day c 
two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again, and repeat thi 
till they are clear ; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a eoc 
oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried a 
wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. 

Gooseberry Jam for Tarts.— Put twelve pounds of the rei 
hairy gooseberries, when ripe, and gathered in dry weather in* 
a preservmg-pan, with a pint of currant juice, drawn as for jelly 
let them boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon ; whei 
they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white LisbM 
sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boihng, (^ 
will not keep, but is an excellent and reasonable thing for tarts op 
puffs. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syrup and fntll 
separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful it does nil 
burn to the bottom. :di 



WHITE GOOSEBEKRY JAM— KASPBERRY JAM. 161 

Another. — Gather 3^oiir gooseberries (tlie clear white or green 

t rt) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them, a ponnd to three 

quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water ; boil 

•dv.d skim the sugar and water, then put the fruit, and boil gently 

till clear ; then break, and put iuto small pots. 

.White Gooseberry Jam.— Gather the finest white goose- 

'rlberries, or green if j'ou choose, when just ripe ; top and tail them. 

^To each pound put thi-ee quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and 

'."'half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water, as 

".directed in page 151, then add the fruit ; simmer gently till clear, 

'then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into small pots. 

^ Gooseberry Hops.— Of the largest green walnut kind, take 

and cut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole ; 

^ pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five 

I;',; or six together, by running the thread through tlie bottoms, till 

■;'the3^ are of the size of a hop. Lay vine leaves at the bottom of a 

tin preserving pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of 

leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan 

with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out ; set 

.it by a slow fire till scalding hot; then take it off" till cold, and so 

do till on opening while cold the gooseberries are of a good green. 

Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of 

sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well ; when half cold, 

put in the fruit ; next day give it one boil, and do this thrice. If 

^^the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, 

' they ma3^ be set to dry in a week ; but if to be kept wet, make a 

;:syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling; 

'.when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when 

cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a 

Jittle sugar ma}- be added and boiled in it, before the hops that 

Xare for drying have their last boil. 

j; The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other sweet- 
meats. 

, Raspberry Jam. — Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; 
put the former into a preserving pan, boil and break it ; stir con- 
.-.stantly, and let it boil very quickl3^ When most of the juice is 
_ wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. 
g: This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to 
jihat which is made by putting the sugar in at first. 
^^ Another way.— Put the fruit into a jar in a kettle of water, 
or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then take away 
I a quarter of a pint from_ every pound of fruit ; boil and bruise it 
half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and 
adding the same quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jell}'. 
r The raspberrj'-juice will serve to ])ut into brand.y, or may be 
J>oiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly for raspberry- 
4ce or cream. 

:, To Preserve Greengages.— Choose the largest, when they 
begin to soften ; split them without paring, and strew a x)art of 
the sugar, of which you have previoush^ weighed an equal quantity, 
Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. IN'ext day, pour the 

L 



162 DAMSON CHEESE— MUSCLE-PLUM CHEESE. 

syrup from the fruit, and boil it witli the other sugar, six or eif,4it 
minutes, but very gently; skim, and add the plums and kernels. 
Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises : put the fruit 
singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If 
you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the direq-,, 
tions that will be given for candying fruit ; some may be don^^ 
each way. ^ ■ ^ 

Damson Cheese. — Bake or boil the fruit in a stone-jar in a 
saucepan of \^'ater, or on a hot hearth. _ Pour oft' some of the juice, 
and for every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sugar. 
Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begins 
to look dry ; take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well 
in, and simmer two hours slowly ; then boil it quickly half an. 
hour, till the sides of the pan candy : then pour the jam into pot- 
ting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. 
If the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out ; but 
after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very 
coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones 
are to be cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the 
jam. AH the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate, but do 
not add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in 
shapes. 

Muscle-plum Cheese.— Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake 
it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and take out the kernels to put 
in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lisr 
bon ; when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add 
the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much eva- 
porated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. Pour it 
into small moulds, patty-pans, or saucers. The remaining juice 
may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. 

Biscuits of Fruit.— To the pulp of any scalded fruits, put of 
sifted sugar an equal weight ; beat it two hom-s, then put it into 
little white iDaper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn, the next day, 
and in two or three daj-s box them. ' ^ " .. 

Quince Marmalade. — Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an. 
equal quantity of sugar ; to four pounds of the latter, put a quart 
of water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of 
quinces are tolerably tender by the following mode : lay them 
into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack 
them with a little sugar strewed between : cover the jar close, and 
set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour 
becomes red ; then pour the fruit syrup and a quart of quince- 
juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade 
be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving 
ladle. 

This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as mentioned, it re- 
quires a great deal of time. 

Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a 
cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as 
above, but dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. 

To Preserve VvThole or Half Quinces.—Into two quarts 



EXCELLl^xVT SWEETMEATS F011 TAETS— lESION DllOrS. 163 

!)f boiling water put a quantity of tlic fairest golden pippins, in 

j:lic'cs not very lliin, and not pared, but wiped clean, lioil tliem 

|-cry quick, close covered, till the water becomes a tliick jelly; 

I hen scald the quinces. To everj^ pint _ of _ pippin-jelly put a 

-;Oiind of tlie finest sugar ; boil it, and skim it clear. Put those 

iuiiiccs that are to bo clone whole into the syrup at once, and let 

I l^oil very fast ; and those that are to be in halves by themselves ; 

;]nm it, and vrhen the fruit are clear, put some of the syrup into 

1 p,h;?s to try Avhether it jellies before taking off" the fire. The 

lity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a 

^(1 of jelly alreadj,'- boiled with the sugar. 

-•^xeeiient Sweetmeats for Tarts, when Fruit is plon- 
ifuL — Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe, and take 
Hit and break the stones ; put the kernels without their skin to 
lie fruit ; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two 
)0uik1s and a half of lump sugar; simmer until the fruit be a 
jlear jam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just 
iipped in water, and added to the fruit over a slow fire. Observe 
;hat it does not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be clarified, it 
dll make the jam bitter. 
•Put it into small pots, which keep sweetmeats best. 

Magnum Eonum Plums : excellent as a Sweetmeat, 
3r in Tarts, though very bad to eat raw. — Prick them with 
I needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin, 
syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. 
Let them lie three days ; then make a syrup of three pounds of 
sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large 
iumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. 
Boil tlie plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from 
them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup 
adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour 
the Hquor over. Those j-ou may like toclry, keep a little of the 
syiTip for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the 
fruit one warm more ; drain, and put them to dry on plates in a 
eopl oven. These x)luras are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two 
3yi'ups ; the former will svreeten pies, but will have too much acid 
to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar to do 
those that are to dry, for they v.ill not require to be so sweet as if 
kept wet, and vrill eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. 
Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, and 
save much sugar. 

Lemon Drops. — Grate three fine large lemons, with a large 
piece of double-refined sugar ; then scrape the sugar into a plate, 
add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light 
paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon vrhite paper, and 
put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. 

Barberry Drops.— The black tops must be cut oiF: then 
roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver 
ispoon through a sieve into a china ])a?in ; then set the basin in a 
saucepan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot 
heartn, and stir it till it grovrs thick. When cold, put to every 



164 TO I'EESERYE FHUITS FOR WINTER tJSE. 

pint a pound and a half of sugar, tlie finest double-refined, pound^ 
and sifted througli a lawn sieve, whicli must be covered witk-a 
fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugai 
and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, but 
two and a half for less ; then drop it on sheets of thick wbi^ 
pa])er, the size of the drops sold in the shops. ^ 

Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is necessary. Tc 
know if there be enough, mix till well incorporated, and then drop 
if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much ii 
■will be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No meta 
must toucli the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the droi 
off the er d of a wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. 

Ginger Drops : a good Stomachic. — Beat two ounces o 
fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste 
then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger -with one pound o 
loafsugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogethe 
to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint drops. 

Peppermint Drops. — Pound and sift four ounces of double 
refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectl; 
smooth ; then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint, beat it welJ 
and drop on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire. 

P^atafia Drops. — Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces c 
bitter, and two of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of suga 
sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the whites of tw 
eggs, making a paste ; of w hich put little balls, the size of a nui 
meg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently on tin-plates. ^-{ 

Raspberry Cakes. — Pick out any bad raspberries that ar 
among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you please, an 
when mashed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weigl 
of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix it wello/rthe fire uut 
perfectly alssolved, then put it on china-plates, and dry it in ik 
sun. As soon as the toiD part dries, cut, with the cover of 
canister, into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and, whe 
drv, put them in boxes with layers of paper. 

TO PRESERVE FRUITS FOR WINTER USE.- 
Observations on Sweetmeats. — Sweetmeats should be kejp 
carefully from the air, and in a very dry place. Unless they liav 
a very small proportion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt ; bu 
when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quiQl 
heat makes them ferment ; and damp causes them to grow mould} 
They should be looked at two or three times in the first tjf' 
months, that they maj^ be gently boiled again, if not likely^ 
keep. 

It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar, more -0 
less, constitutes the principal art of the confectioner, and thop 
who are not practised in this knowledge, and only preserve m^ 
plain way for familj' use, are not aware that, in t\^ o or thj?^ 
minutes, a syrup over the fire viill pass from one gradatiour^ 
another, called by the confectioners degrees of boiling, of whic. 
there are six. and those subdivicled. But I am not versed in t^ 
minutiae, and only make the observation to guard against undei 



TO KEEP CUERANTS— TO KEEP CODLTNS. 165 

oilinff, whicli prevents sweetmeats from keepiug ; and quick 
■oiiiue: and loup:, which brings them to a candy. 

Attention, without much practice, ^^ill enable a person to do 
ny of the following sort^of sweetmeats. &c.,and they are as much 
s'is wanted in a private family ; the higher articles of preserved 
ruits may be bought at less expense than made. 

Jelhes of fruit made with an equal quantity of sugar, that is, a 
)Ound to a pint, require no very long boiling. 

A pan should be kept for the purpose of preservmg, of double 
jlock tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, 
rill do very well ; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, 
Then done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or 
)rass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of 
he sweetmeat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong 
inning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should 
3e kept for sweet things. 

Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not connected with a 
«'all. If there be the least damp, cover them only with paper 
dipped in brandy, laid quite close ; putting a little fresh over m 
spring, to prevent insect mould. When any sweetmeats are 
directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in 
private families, where there is not a regular stove for the pur- 
pose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the 
heat^ and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off: or if 
put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and Avatch 
ithat they do properly and slowly. 

i To Keep Currants.— The bottles being perfectly clean and 
Idry, let the currants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest 
;bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture 
'mav be among them. It is necessary to gather them when the 
weather is quite dry, and if the servant can be trusted, it is best 
to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the 
i bottles. , . . 

Stop up the bottles with cork and resin, and put them into the 
trench in the garden with the neck downwards ; stocks should be 
placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. 
Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. 
Currants may be scalded, as directed for gooseberries, the first 
method. 

To Keep Codlins for several months.— Gather codiins at 
Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, 
pour boiling water over them, and cover the pan with cabbage- 
leaves. Keep them by the fire till they would peel, but do not 
peel them ; then pour the water off till they are both quite cold. 
Place the codlins then in a stone jar with a smallish mouth, and 
pour on them the water that scalded them. Cover the pot with 
bladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper 
tied again. 

It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once 
when opened. 
' To Keep Gooseberries.— Before they become too large, let 



166 TO KEKP GOOSEBERRIES— TO KEEP DAMSOXS. 

them be gatliered ; and take care not to cut tliem in taking off the 
stalks and buds. Eill -uido-moutbed bottles ; put the corks loosely 
in, and set the bottles up to the neck in a boiler of water. When 
the fruit looks scalded, take them out ; Tind when perfectly cold, 
cork close and resin the top. Dig a trench in a part of the garden 
less used, sufficicntlj'" deep for all the bottles to stand, and let the 
earth be thrown over to cover them a foot and a half. When a 
frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will i)revent the 
ground from hardening so that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, 
scald as above ; when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork 
them, and keep them in a damp or dry place ; they will not be 
spoiled. 

Another way. — In the size and preparations as above ; when 
done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler or large kettle ; 
and put into it as much roach-alum as ^vill, when dissolved, harden 
the water, which you will taste by a little roughness ; if there be 
too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as manj^ gooseberries into a 
large sieve as will lie at the bottom without covering one another. 
Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to look scalded on 
tlie outside ; then turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth on 
the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more tc 
be scalded, and so on till all be finished. Observe not to put one 
quantity on another, or they will become too soft. The next day 
pick out any bad or broken ones, bottle the re&;t, and fill up the 
bottles with alum water in which they were scalded ; which mus! 
be kept in the bottles, for if left in the kettle, or in a glazed pan 
it will spoil. Stop them close. 

The water must boil all the time the process is carrying on 
Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as those gatiieret 
fresh off the bushes. 

Anotlier way. — In dry weather pick the gooseberries that ar( 
full grown, but not ripe ; top and tail, and put them into open 
mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with new velvet corks ; pu 
them in the oven when the bread is drawm, and let them stand til 
shrunk a quarter part; take them out of the oven, and immediateb 
beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and resin down close ; se' 
them in a dry place, and if well secured from the air, they wil 
keep the year round. 

If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries' skins are the leasl 
cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The Lair^ 
sort only must be used for keeping, and do them before the seed? 
become large. 

Currants and damsons may be done the same way. 

To Keep Damsons for Winter Pies.— Put them in smal 
stone jars, or wide-mouthed bottles ; set them up to their necks 
in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them 
ISTcxt day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spring water ; covei 
them. 

Another way. — Boil one-third as much sugar as fruit with it 
over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fi'ulr, and forms a jam 



' TO niESERVE FKTJITS FOR TAETS OR FAMILY DESSERTS. 107 

Keep ifc in small jars in a dry place. If too sweet, mix witli it some 
of the fruit that is done without sugar. 

Another way.— Choose stean pots, if you can get them, which 
are of equal size top and bottom (they should hold eight or nine 
pounds); put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a 
quarter of the sugar ; then another quantity of fruit, and so till 
all of both are in. The proportion of sugar is to be three pounds 
to nine pounds of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit 
quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick 
into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the 
top ; then put melted mutton suet over the top full half an inch 
thick, having x^rcviously covered the fruit with white paper. 
Keep the jars in a cool dry place, and use the suet as a cover, 
which you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a little 
forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. 

To Preserve Fruit for Tarts, or Fa,mily Desserts.— 
Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when 
ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew 
over eacli jar six ounces of good loaf-sugar pounded : cover with 
two bladders each, separately tied dovrn ; then set the jars in a 
large stew-pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three 
hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from 
damp, 

To Keep Lemon Juice.— Buy the fruit when cheap, keep 
-.: it in a cool place two or three days, if too unripe to squeeze at 
once; cut the peel off some, and roil them under your hand to 
make them part with the juice more readily ; others you may 
leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and 
dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin ; then strain it 
tlu-ough some muslin, which will not permit the least pulp to 
pass. Have ready half and quarter-ounce phials perfectly dry ; 
fiU them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half 
a tea-sx)oonfid. of sweet oil into each ; or a litiie more, if for 
larger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool 
place. 

When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as j^ou 
sliall use in two or three dsijs ; wind some clean cotton round a 
skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted; and when all 
shall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. 

Hang the peels up till dry ; then keep them from the dust. 

China Orange Juice. (A very useful thing to mix with 
Water in Fevers, when the fresh Juice cannot be iDrocured). — 
Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through 
fine muslin, and gently simmer with tliree ciuarters of a pound of 
double-refined sugar for twenty minutes ; when cold put it in small 
bottles. 

Different ways of Dressing Cranberries.— For pies and 
puddings, with a good deal of sugar. 

Stew in a jar Mith the same : which way they eat well with 
bread, and are very wholesome. 



1 



168 ORGEAT— LEMONADE — EASPBElUiY VINEGAli. 

Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine drinkf 
for people in fevers. ;■ 

Orgeat. — Boil a quart of new niilk uitli a stick of cinnamon^^, 
sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it by de- 
grees to tlu'ce ounces of almonds, and t^ enty bitter that haveg 
been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a little water to prerj 
vent oiling; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half ^g 
glass of brandy. Jn 

Another way.— Blanch and pound three cjuarters of a pound 
of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stiriji^ 
by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the 
whole thi-ough a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a 
pint of water, boil and skim it well ; mix it with the other, as like- 
wise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a tea-cupful of the 
best brandy. 

Lemonade, to be made the day before wanted.— Pare 
two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight J 
of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling, water, and coverl- 
it over for three or four hours. Hub some fi^.e sugar on the,', 
lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china bowl, into.] 
which sciueeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound andlj 
a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three 
quarts of milk made boiling hot ; mix, and pom* through a jelly-is 
bag till perfectly clear. 

Another way. — Pare a number of lemons according to theLj, 
quantity you are likely to want ; on the peels pour hot water, but 
more juice will be necessary than you neecl use the peels of.^j 
While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the « 
white of an egg whipt up ; when it boils, pour a little cold water h 
into it ; set it on again, and when it boils up, take the pan ofl', and 
put it to settle. If there is any scum, take it off", and pour it clear-i 
from the sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the.:>! 
lemon-juice; stir and taste it, and add as much more water j\s 
shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-a£ 
bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which is uncoui? gl 
raonly fine. .;f'>i 

Lemonade that has the Flavour and Appearance oliJ 
Jelly. — Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as pos-i 
sible, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water. Boil a 
pound and a ciuarter of loaf-sugar in three pints of water, and 
skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges 
and twelve lemons ; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly- 
bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the 
flavour, and if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. 
' Raspberry Vinegar.— Put a pound of fine fruit into a china 
bowl, and pour upon it a quart of the best white-wine vinegar; 
next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries, and theiJb 
following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain 
the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last time pass it through'j^ 
a canvas previously wet with vinepar to prevent waste. Put it;x/ 
■>jinto a stone jar, with a pound of loaf sugar to ever}^ pint of juice t^ 



OBSERVATIONS OX MAKING AND BAKING CAKES. 169 

broken into large lumps ; stir it when melted, then put tlie jar 

into a saucepan of Avater, or on a liot hearth, let it simmer, and 

skim it. When cold, bottle it. 
This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in 
house, not onl}^ as affording the most refreshing beverage, but 

being of singular eiiicacy in complaints of the chest. A large 
poonful or two in a tumbler of water. Be careful to use no 

glazed nor metal vessel for it. 
The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes excellent 

Raspberry Cakes, without boiling. 



CAKES, BREAD, &e. 

' - Observations on Making and Baking Cakes. 

CuEEANTS should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and 
then set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or pud- 
dings heavy. Before thej^ are added, a dust of dry flour should 
be thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes 
the thing that they are put to to be lighter. 

Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and 
always strained. 

Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted 
through a very fine hair or lawn sieve. 

Lemon peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar 
beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little 
wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingre- 
dients. 

After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be tho- 
ronghly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends 
much on their being well incorporated. ^.-^^.. - - . <; — 

Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter 
and eggs for having yeast, and cat equally light and rich. If the 
leaven l3e only of flour, milk, water, and yeast, it becomes more 
tough and is less easily divided than if the butter be first put with 
those ingredients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the 
fire. 

The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially'' 
those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. 
Should 3'ou fear its catching, by being too quick, put some paper 
i over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough 
J lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will 
'be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife 
\ that is very bright, and plunge into the xevy centre ; draw it in- 
stantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
! diately in, and shut up the oven. 

If the heat was sufficient to raise but not to soak, I have with 
great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot 
until the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out 
extremely well. But those who are employed ought to be parti- 



170 ICEIXG rOH CAKES— AX EXCELLENT CAKE. 

cularly careful tliat no mistake occur from negligence wlien largo 
calces are to be baked. 

Iceing for Cakes.— For a large one, beat and sift eigL' 
ounces of fine sugar ; put into a mortar with four spoonfuls oi 
rose-water and the whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, whisk 
it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the ice- 
ing, and cover the cake well ; set it in the oven to harden, but do 
not let it stay to discolour. Put the cake into a dry place. 

To Ice a very large Cake. —Beat the whites of twenty 
fresli eggs ; then, by degrees, beat a pound of double-refined sugaU 
sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan, 
add orange-flower water and a piece of fresh lemon peel of the 
former, enough to flavour, and no more. "Whisk it for three hours, 
till the mixture is thick and white ; then with a thin broad bit of 
board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, 
and an hour will harden it. 

A Common Cake. — Mix three quarters of a pound of floup 
with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half 
an ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin wine. Beat it well, 
and bake in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon sugar. 

Avery good Common Cake. — Eub eight ounces of butter 
into two pounds of dried flour ; mix it with three spoonfuls of 
yeast that is not bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half, 
then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one 
pound of sugar, some milk to make it a projper thickness (about a 
pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of a lemon, 
and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a poimd of currants, or 
some caraways, and beat well. 

An excellent Cake. — Eub two pounds of dry fine flour with 
one of butter, washed in plain rose-vv ater, and mix it with three 
spoonfuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise 
an hour and a half before the fire, then beat into it two pounds of 
cuiTants, one pound of sugar sifted, four ounces of almonds, six 
ounces of stoned raisins cliopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, 
allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as tine as 
possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites 
of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemooj 
Beat exceedingly v.ell, and butter the pan. A quick oven. 

A very fine Cake.— ATash two pounds and a half of fresh 
butter in water first, and then in rose-water; beat the butter to a 
cream; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an 
hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest flour, 
well dried and kept hot, likewise a pound and a half of sugar 
pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three 
X)Ounds of currants nicely cleaned and dried, hah* a pound of 
almonds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats 
cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire ; mix all the dry 
ingredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter ; mix half a pint 
of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter 
and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees, 
beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much* 



' E0I7T EEOr CAKES— SnORT CAKES— PLUM CAKES. l7l 

> flavmg half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as pos- 
< Jdble, mix them carefully so that there shall be no lumps, and add 
ir!i te.i-cupfvd of orange-flower water. Boat the ingredients toge- 
•: her a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you 
5'iave none, a tin or copper cake-pan; take a white paper doubled 
!ind buttered, and put in the pan, round the edge, if the cake 
, matter fill it more than three parts, for space should be allowed 
■ 'or rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will requh'e three hours, 
I Bout Drop Cakes.— Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto 
rb utter, one ditto sugar, one ditto cui'rants, clean and dry; then 
net into a stiff paste witli two eggs, and a large spoonful of 
'->rai]ge-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto 
fcbrandy ; drop on a tin plate floured : a very short time bakes them. 

Fiat Cakes, that will keep long in the house good.— 
Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounqe of 
caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, 
to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. 
Bake on tins hghtly floured. While baking, boil a pound of 
sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot. dip 
each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a 

liort time, and when the oven is cooler still, return them there 
again, and let them stay four or five hours. 

Little White Cakes.— Dry half a pound of flour ; rub into it 
a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few 
caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; roll 
it thin, and cut it witli the top of a canister or glass. Bake 
fifteen minutes on tin plates. 

Little Short Cakes.— Eub into a pound of dried flour four 
Ounces of butter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, 
ftnd a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When 
mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. 
Cut them as before, and bake on tins. 

Plum Cakes.— Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine 
flour, well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf sugar, three 
pounds of currants v^ashed, and very dry, half a pound of raisins 
stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, 
twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon 
cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and 
beaten with orange-flower water. Melt two pounds of butter 
in a pint and quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a 
pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of 
twelve eggs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. Strain 
this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them to- 
gether a fulfhour, then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As 
you put the batter in the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, 
lemon, and orange-candy. 

If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double-refined sugar 
gifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and 
by degrees pour in the remainder. It must be whisked near an 
hour, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, but mind 
not to put much. When the cake is done, pour the iceing over, and 



172 rOUND CAKE— SEED CAKE — BllKAD CAKE. 

return it to the oven for fifteen minutes ; but if the oven be vei*J 
^varnl. Iceep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the coloii; 
be spoik^d. ' 

Another.— Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, fouj 
pounds ; sugar pounded and sifted, one pound and a lialf ; M 
orange, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices : mix tlicse. , '" 

Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately : then melt a poiiiK 
and a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when lukewarm, put it'i'( 
half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a pint of sweet wine, and iJii 
eggs ; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, l^eat then 
well, and add of cIoycs, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half aj 
ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Thi^y 
hours will bake it. ■- 

Very good common Plum Cakes.— Mix five ounces o 
butter in three pounds of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisboi 
sugar ; then add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, am 
some pimento finely powdered. Pat three spoonfuls of yeast int( 
' a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a ligh* 
dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake oH'i 
floured tin half an hour. 

Little Plum Cakes, to keep long.— Dry one pound o 
flour, and mix six ounces of tinely-pounded sugar'; beat six ounce. 
of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, half s 
pound of currants, washed and nicely dried, and the flour am 
sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin-plates, anc 
drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed 
it will be a stift' paste. Bake in a brisk oven. 

A good Pound Cake.— Beat a pound of butter to a cream 
and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart 
Have ready warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same o 
sifted sugar, mix them and a few cloves, a httle nutmeg and cinna 
mon in fine powder together ; then by degrees work up all the drj 
ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add^i 
glass of Avine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour 
Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. '- 

The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter 
and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to mdsi 
tastes a more pleasant one. 

A cheap Seed Cake.— Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with 
half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a littk 
gmger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a pinji 
of milk ; when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, ano 
W9rk up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few 
minutes before it goes to the oven ; add seeds, or currants, and 
bake an hour and a half 

Another.— ^lix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound ol 
common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, an ounce oi 
seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of milk and Avater. 
Xote. — Milk alone canse> cake and bread soon to dry. 

/ Common Bread Cake.— Take the quantity of a quartern 
[ loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well 



f I QUEEN CAKES— SHIIEWSBURY CAKES. 17S 

'ato it two ounces of bvitter, two of Lisljou sugar, and eight of 

in-ants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. 

13 V tiie addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or 
vo! you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream 
!n]n-oves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a 
(^af, the outside being less hard. - 

""'Queen Cakss.— Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted 
;ugar, and of currants washed clean. Wash a pound of butter in 
•0s^:^-water, beat it well, then mix Arith it eight eggs, yolks and 
Vhites beaten separately, and put in all the dry ingredients by 
tegrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter httle tins, teacups, or 
;aucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine 
utrar over just as you put into the oven. 

Another way.— Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with 
two well-beaten eggs, strained ; mix eight ounces of dried flour, 
md the same of lump sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon, then 
add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver- 
spoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes 
in a quick oven. 

Shrewsbury Cakes.— Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded 
-innamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the 
finest sort : add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and 
mix these with the flour, &c., then pour into it as much melted 
butter as will make it a good thickness to roll out. 

]\Iould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes as you 
tike. 

Tunbridge Cakes.— Eub six ounces of butter quite fine, 
into a pound of flour, tlien mix six ounces of sugar, beat and 
strain two ecrgs, and make with the above into a paste. Eoll it 
very thin, and cut it with the top of a glass ; prick them with a 
fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, 
and dust a little white sugar over. 

Eice Cake. — Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of 
ilour, eight ounces of pounded sugar ; then sift by degrees into 
eight volks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred 
so'^fine that it is quite mashed ; mix the whole well in a tm stew- 
pan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately 
into the oven in the same and bake forty minutes. 

Another.— Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the 
peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, 
ei«^ht ounces of flour, and one poundof sugar pounded and sifted ; 
then beat it well with the eggs, by degrees, for an hour, with a 
wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put in at the oven s 
mouth. 1 1 IP 

' A gentle oven Mill bake it m an hour and a halt. 
., Water Cakes.— Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub 
into it one pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce 
of caraway seeds. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a 
pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the size you 
choose ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin-plates in a cool oven. 
Sponge Cake.— Weigh ten eggs, and add their weight m very 



174 TEA. CAKES— BENTOX CAKES— ilACAROOXS—WAFEIlS. 

fine sii£?ar, and that of six in flour -, boat the yolks witli tlio flour 
and the whites alone, to a very stiiF froth ; then by depjrees iiiii 
the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them 
well half an hour. Bake in a quick oveu an hour. 

Another, without liutter.— Dry one pound of flom\ and 
one and a quai'ter of sugar ; then beat seven eggs, yolks and whites 
apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonfid of brandy, beat the, 
•whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered 
pan in a quick oven. , 

Sweetmeats may be added if approved. 

Tea Cakes. — Eub fine four ounces of butter into eight oune^ 
of flour ; mix eight ounces of currants and six of fine Lisbon su!:rar, 
two yolks and one white of egg?, and a spoonful of brandy. Eoll 
the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine 
glass. You may beat the other white and wash over them, and 
either dust sugar or not, as you like. 

Benton Tea Cakes.— MLx a paste of flour, a little bit ol 
butter and milk ; roll as thin as possible, and balce on a back-stone 
over the fire, or on a hot hearth. 

Another sort, as Eiscuits.— Eub into a pound of flour sis 
ounces of butter, and add three large spoonfuls of yeast and make 
into a paste, with a sufiicient quantity of new milk ; make intc 
biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. 

Another sort. — Melt six or seven ounces of butter with a suf- 
ficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds of flour into a 
stiff paste ; roll thin, and make into biscuits. 

A Biscuit Cake.— One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten 
and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flowei 
water ; beat the vrhole tliorougldy and bake one hour. 

Macaroons. — Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound vrith 
four spoonfuls of orange-flovrer water ; whisk the whites of four 
eggs to a froth, then mix it and a pound of sugar sifted, with the 
almonds, to a paste ; and la.ying a sheet of vrafer-paper on a tin, 
put it on in diff'erent little cakes, the shape of macaroons. 

Wafers.— Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a 
little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it ; then make 
it into a thick batter with cream ; butter the wafer irons, let them 
be hot : put a tea-spoonful of the batter into them, so bake them 
carefully, and roll tliem ofl'the iron with a stick. 

Crack ITuts. — Mix eight ounces of flour and eight ounces of 
sugar ; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin wine ; 
then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; acid 
caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, 
wash with the white of an egg;, and dust sugar over. 

Cracknels.— Mix vrith a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, 
the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-water, 
into a stiff paste, with cold water ; then roll in a pound of butter, 
and make them into cracknel shapes ; put them into a kettle of 
boiling water and boil them till they swim, then take out and put 
them into cold water ; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and 
bake them on tin nlates. 



' BU2s'S— GINGEllRIlEAD. iH 

i A good Plain Bun, that may bo oaten with or with- 
out Toasting and Butter. — Eub four ounces of butter into 
wo pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as 3-ou 
ike, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessert spoonful of caraways ; put 
, spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good 
ailk as will make tlie above into a iiglit paste. Set it to rise 
yy a fire till the oven be ready » They will quickly bake on tins. 

Richer Buns. — Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with 
lalf a pound of sugar ; melt a pound and two ounces of butter in 
L little warm water ; add six spoonfuls of rose-water, and knead 
he above into a Hght dough, with half a pint of yeast ; then mix 
ive ounces of caraway-comfits in, and put some on them. 

Gingerbread. — Mix with two pounds of flour, half a pound of 
reacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of 
jinger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. 

Eoll the paste into what form you please, and bake on tins, after 
laving worked it very much and kept it to rise. 

If you hke sweetmeats add orange candied ; it may be added in 
small bits. 

Another sort.— To three quarters of a pound of treacle beat 
me egg strained ; mix four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce 
3f ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice and nutmeg a quarter 
>f an ounce, beaten as fine as possible ; coriander and caraway 
seeds each a quarter of an ounce ; melt one pound of butter and 
mix with the above, and add as much flour as will knead into a 
pretty stiff paste ; then roll it out and cut into cakes. 

Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. A Httle time will bake 
them. 

Of some, drops may be made. 

A Good Plain Sort. — Mix three pounds of flour with half a 
pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of 
pounded ginger ; then make into a paste with one pound and a 
quarter of treacle, warm. 

A Good Sort ■without Butter. — Mix two pounds of trea- 
jcle, of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four 
:ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce 
jof caraways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as 
jwill make a soft paste ; lay it in cakes on tin plates, and bake it in 
ja quick oven. Keep it diy in a covered earthen vessel, and it will 
ibe good for some months. 

I Xote. — If cakes -or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, the taste will be 
disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist. 
■ — Or, if to be crisp, layiugthem before the fire will make them so. 

Husks. — Beat seven eggs well, and mix w ith half a pint of nev/ 
milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter ; add to it 
'a quarter of a pint of yeast and three ounces of sugar, and put 
them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste 
rather "like batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour ; 
then add some more flour to make it a little stiffer, but not stiff. 
Work it well, and clivide it into small loaves or cakes, about five 
or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, shce 



176 TO MAKE YEAST—TO MAKE BREAD. 

' them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown { 
little. 

Xote. — The cakos, when first baked, cat deliciously buttered for tea ; or, wit! 
caraway?, to eat cold. 

To make Yeast. — Thicken two quarts of water with fm( 

flour, about three spoonfuls ; boil half an hour, sweeten with neai 

half a pound of brown sugar ; when near cold, put iuto it foui 

spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let^i 

stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covert 

There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured oJBf 

sliake the remainder, and cork it up for use. Take always foui 

spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantit}^ keeping ^ 

'v^ways in succession. -[ 

A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. »' 

Another way.— Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash ; whei 

half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be readj 

for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. 

Use doubie the quantity of this, to what you do of beei 
yeast, 
;• y To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pou: 
'. it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. 
' To niake Bread. — Let flour be kept four or five weeks befon 
it is begun to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into ; 
trough, or kneading-tub ; mix with it between four and five quart 
of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast; put it inti 
the flour, and stir it well with your hands till it beconies tough 
Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less, if it rise 
fast ; then, before it falls, add four more quarts of warm watei 
and half a pound of salt ; work it well, and cover it-^vith a cloth 
Put the fire into the oven, and by tlie time it is warm enough, th 
dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each 
sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread 
shut it up close and two hours and a half will bake it. In sumnie 
the water should be milk-warm, in winter a little more, and ii 
frostj' weather as hot as you can bear j'our hand in, but not scalB 
ing, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust wil 
be ver3^ nice. 

The oven should be round, not long ; the roof from twenfy ti 

twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron, b 

shut close. This construction will save firmg and time, and baki 

better than long and high-roofed ovens. 

/ Eolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new 

■ when two or three days old, by dipping them, uncut, in Avater, am 

n3aking afresh, or toasting. ,r^: - ' .v»->«- ,r.*~«, 

^""American Flour requires almost twice as much water to mab 
it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it is mon 
profitable ; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteei 
pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread ; bu; 
the best sort of English flour produces only eighteen pounds anc 
a half. 



THE EEV. MR. HAGGET S ECONOMICAL BREAD. l77 

The Heverend Mr. Hagget's Economical Sread.— • 

)nly the coarse flake bran is to be removed from the flour; of 
his take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than four gallons 
)f water, so that when perfectly smooth, you may have three gal- 
on? and three quarts of bran- water clear. With this knead 
ifty-six pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same 
ray and proportion as for other bread. When ready to bake, 
livide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half 

Thus made, flour will imbibe thr&e quarts more of bran-water 
lian of plain, so that it not only produces a more nutritious and 
ubstantial food, but makes an increase of one-fifth the usua. 
r[uantity of bread, which is a saving of one day's consumption out 
f six ; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would 
fleet a saving often millions sterling a year, when wheat was at 
•he price it stood in the scarcity', reckoning the consumption to 
)e two hundred thousand bushek a day. The sam^e quantity of 
lour, which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nine pounds 
ight ounces of bread, will, in the above way, make eighty-three 
)Ounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary 
)rice of floui* four millions would be saved. YVhen ten da.ys old, 
f put into the oven for tv.ent}' minutes, this bread vrill appear 
piite new again. 

nice and Wheat Bread. — Simmer a pound of rice in two 
luarts of Avater till it becomes perfectly soft ; and when it is of a 
)roper warmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, 
nd yeast and salt as for other bread; of 3'east about four lai'ge 
poonfuls ; knead it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the 
ire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. 
The whole expense, including baking, will not exceed tliree 
hillings, for Avhich eight pounds and a half of exceeding 
;ood bread will be produced. If the rice should require 
Qore water it must be added, as some rice swells more than 
ther. ___-, 

Prench Bread. — With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix 
ixe yolks of three, and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, 

litile salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as 
mich milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light 
bugh. Stir it about, but do not knead it. Have ready three 
[uarb wooden dishes, divide the dough among them. Set to rise, 
hen turn them out into the oven, which must be qaick. E,asp 
vhen done. — -- 

To Discover whether Bread has been Adulterated 
urith Whiting or Chalk. — Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong 
inegar, and if this puts it into a state of fermentation, you may 
ye certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles, and these are 
lometimes in large quantities in bakers' bread. 

To Detect Bones, Jalap, Ashes, &c., in Bread.— Slice 

large loaf very thin, the crumb only ; set it over the Are with 
vater, and let it boil gently a long tune ; take it oft", and poiu- the 
^-ater iuto a vessel ; let it stand till nearly cold, then pour it gently 



17S * EOLLS— MUrriNS^YORKSniRE CAKES. 

.out and in tlie sediment will be seen the ingredients whicli liav 
been mixed. Tlie alum \vill be dissolved m the water, an. 
may be ' extracted from it. If jalap has been used, it wl 
form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingredients ^Ylll sm 

to the bottom. o -, ^l ■ -i m? 

Sscelient Bolls.— Warm one ounce of butter m halt a pii 
of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, an 
a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a "pan, and mix m ti 
above. Let it rise an hour, knead it well, make into seven roil 
and bake in a quick oven. *, i ^, j ,i 

If made in cakes thiK?e inches thick, shced and buttered, Uu 
resemble Sally Lunns, as made at Bath. ^ The foregoing receip 
with the addition of a little saffron boiled m halt a tea-cupiul 
milk, makes them remarkably gcod. ^, . ^ , ^^ 

/^ Preneli Eolls.— Eub an ounce of butter into a pound ot iiou 

/ mix one cs:n; beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as mu. 

\ milk as witrmake the dough of a middling stiifness. Beat it we 

\but do not knead ; let it rise acd bake on tm?. 
^ Brentford Bolls.— ]Mix with two pounds of ilour a little sa 
'Wo ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eg 
beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of mi 
Kn'-ad the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Mn 
twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the i: 
to rise, till they become of a proper size ; then oake halt 

Potato Bolls.— Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise a 
work them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as ^ 
make them pass through a colander. Take half or three quart 
of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water to mix with 
potatoes ; then pour the whole upon five pounds of flour, and r 
some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, pu 
little more milk and water warm ; let it stand before the fiiT 
i hour to rise ; work it well, and make it into rolls. Bake ab 
\half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They 
■^weU toasted and buttered. 

(--" Mufians — Mix two pounds of flour with two eggs, two oun 
of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonful; 
veast ; beat it thoroua:hly, and set it to rise two or three hoi 
Bake on a hot hearth^in flat cakes. When done on one side t 
■■ 2<'ote. Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new, by 

ping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch oven, till 
outside be crisp. .on i • 

, Yorkshire Cakes.— Take two pounds of flour, and mix y. 

/' it four ounces of 'butter melted in a pint of good milk, th 

I spoonfuls of yeast, and t'svo eggs ; beat all well together and u 

; rise; then knead it, and make into calces; let them rise on : 

'' before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is m 

as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort ; 

last ligiiter. 

' Hard Biscuits.— Warm two ounces of butter m as m 



TO BEET\' VERY FINE WELSH ALE— STllONG BEEr. OH ALE. l79 

timmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff pasto, 
)eat it with a rolling-iDin, and work it very smootli. Eoll it thin, 
ind cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a 
brk. About six minutes will bake them. , -^ 

Plain and very Crisp Biscuits.— Make a pound of flour, the"^ 
rolk of an egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, 
md knead till quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut inl n bi'^cuit.^. 

ake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 



HOME BREWSPvY, WIJTBS, &e, 

'o Brew very fine Welsh Ale.— Pour forty-two gallons 
)f water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, 
I'over and let it stand three hours. In the meantime infuse 
bur pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water 
md hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and 
3oil them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep 
ibr the small beer. Let the wort_ stand in a liigh tub till cool 
nough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if 
ou cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and 
^ften. When the wort has done vrorking the second or third day, 
;he yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle, remove it- then, 
md tun tlie ale as it works out ; pour a quart in at a time, and 
gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, 
9rhich weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole 
tvro or three days before stopping up. 

Strong Beer or Ale.— Twelve bushels of malt to the hogs- 
'lead for beer (or fom^teen if you wish it of a verj^ good body), eight 
for ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not 
boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered; 
mash it in the first half hour, and let it stand the remainder of the 
time. Kun it on the hops previously infused in water ; for strong 
beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel ; if for ale, half a 
pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it 
begins to boil. Cool a pailful — add t-vo quarts of yeast to, which 
vrill prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but 
if possiljle put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover 
the bung-hole with paper when the heev has done working ; and 
when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops 
dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it 
up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve in bottles, 
before it be drunk. It will keep and be very fine eight or tea 
years. It should be brewed in the beginning of March. 

(jreat care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly prepared, 
and that the corks are of the best sort. 

The ale will be read}- in three or four month? ; and if the vent- 
peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very 
last. Allow tvio gallons of water at flrst for waste. • 

After the beer or ale has run from the gi'aius, pour a hogshead 
a^ 1 half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight 

M 2 



ISO TO REFINE ALE, WINE, OR CYDER. 

were brewed ; mash, and let stand, and then boil, &e. Use soTfifii 
of the hops for this table-beer that Avere boiled for the strong. -^ 

AVhen thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea 
v^poonful, or more if required, of salt of wormwood put into ttv 
juc:, will rectif}' it. Let it be drawn just before it is dinink, orl 
will taste ilat. <n 

Excellent Table Beer.— On three bushels of njalt pour^ 
hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to b 
thirty-nine gallons. Cover it warm half an hour, then mash, m 
let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to draii 
Wlien dry, add half the remaining- water, mash, and let it staii 
half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of th 
■water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a fu 
hour. Eun that off, and mix all together, A pound and a half ( 
hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and b 
put into the tub for the first running. 

Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boil 
Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day t 
add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a qua] 
of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort shoul 
be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pai 
When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bungho 
for three days, Mhen it may be safely fastened close. In three < 
four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. 

Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel j 
soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, tl 
air causing casks to become musty. 

To Eeflne Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cyder.— Put two ounces 
isinglass shavings to soak m a quart of the liquor that you wai 
to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw c 
a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it : likewise 
quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar ca 
cined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, th( 
return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stc 
it up, and in a few days it will bo fine. 

Extract of Malt for Conglis.- Over half a bushel of pa 
ground malt, pour as much hot, not boiling water, as will just eov( 
it. In forty-eight hours drain off the Hciuor entirely, but withoi 
squeezing the grains ; put the former into a large sweetmeat-pa: 
or saucepan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possibl 
without boiling over : when it begins to thicken, stir constantl. 
It must be as thick as treacle. A dessert-spoonful thrice a day. " 

To Preserve Yeast— When you have plenty of yeast, begi 
to save it in the following manner: — Whisk it until it beconK 
thin, then talce a rie-n' large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, ar 
when quite dry, lay a lawyer of yeast over the inside with a so 
brush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the same manner ar 
so do until you have a sufficient quantitj'', observing that each co; 
dry thoroughly before another be added. It may be put on t\A 
or three inches thick, and will keep several months; when to I 
used, cut a piece out and stir it in warm water. If to be used fi 



EASPBEREY OR CURllAA'T WINE. 181 

„^',Ying, keep it by dipping large liaudfuls of birch tied together ; 
nd ^^hen dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as 
oauv as you please ; but take care that no dust comes to them or 
he vessel in which it has been prepared as before. U hen the 
rort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will 
lo as Avell as fresh veast : but if mixed with a small quantity first, 
nd theii added to the wliole, it v^ill work sooner. 

Remarks on English Wines.— English wines would bo 
bund particularly useful, now foreign are so high priced ; and 
hough sugar is dear, they may be made at a quarter of the ex- 
)e.n^=e. If carefully made, and kept three or four years, a pro- 
Kirtionable strength being given, they would answer the purpose 
)f foreign wines for health, and cause a very considerable reduc- 
ion in the expenditure. . i r. ^i 

A Rich and Pleasant Wine.— Take new cider from the 
)ress, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil 
^entlv fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. 
Skim'' it well ; when cool let it be tunned, but do not quite fill. 
En March following bottle it. and it will be fit to drmk m six 
rt-eeks ; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. ^ You 
o-ill have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well, ihis will 
serve for any culinary i^'poses which sack, or sweet wine, is di- 
rected for. . 1^11 

Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new 
crabbed austere cyder. ,, • i i ■, 

Raspberry Wine.— To every quart of well-picked raspberries 
put a quart of water; bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain 
off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump 
suiiar ; when dissolved, put the hquor into a barrel, and when fine, 
viiich will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle 
put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. . nj^ • 

Raspberry or Currant Wine.— To every three pints ot fruit, 
carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; 
bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and 
put to everv quart a pound of Lisbon sugar, of good middling 
quality. If'for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is best to put 
the fruit, &c., in a large pan, and when in three or four days, the 
scum rises, take that off before the hquor be put into the barrel : 
thosG who make from their own gardens may not have a sufiiciency 
to fill the barrel at once ; the wine will not hurt if made m the 
pan.^the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and 
can oBbathered in diy weather. Keep an account of what is put 
in each time. ■ , r 

Another way.— Put five ciuarts of currants, and a pint ot 
raspberries, to every two gallons of water ; let them soak a night ; 
then squeeze and break them well. ]S"ext day rub them well on a 
fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins 
agcnn with some of the water; then, to every gallon, put four 
pou-iids of verv good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often 
adulterated; tun it immediately, and lay the bung hgntly on. 
Do not use anything to work it. In two or three days put a 



1S2 ELICK CUllKA^^T AVINE— GJNGEK "SVIKE. 

bottle of brandy to every four gallons ; bung it close, but leare 
the peg out at top a few days : keep it three years, and it will be 
a very liuo a<rreenble wine ; four years wonld make it still better. 

Black CiUTant Wine, very fine. — To every three quarts cm 
juice, put the same of water unboiled ; and to every three quarts 
of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it 
into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in :i 
warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself Skim oU 
the refuse when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up wiih 
the reserved liquor. When it has ceased working, ])Our thre. 
quarts of brandy to forty quarts of v< ine. Eung it close for nmc 
months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly- 
bag until it bo clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve 
months. 

Excellent Ginger Wine.— Put into a very nice boiler ter 
gallons of water, fifteen pounds of lump sugar, with the vrhites oi 
six or eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix all well while 
cold ; ^.^hen the liquor boils skim it well ; put in half a pound of 
common white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes._ Have 
ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the liquor ou 
them ; wlien cool, tun it with tv.o spoonfuls of yeast ; put a quart 
of the liquor to two ounces of isingla# shavings while warm, 
Vthisk it well three or four times, and pour all together into the 
barrel. jN"ext day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle, and in tliree 
months it will be a delicious and refreshing hquor ; and though 
very cool, perfectly safe. 

Anotlier. — Eoil nine quarts of water with six pounds of lump- 
sugar, the rinds of two or three lemons very thinly pared, with 
tv;0 ounces of bruised white ginger, half an hour; skim. Put 
three quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask ; when the 
liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the juice of two lemons strained, 
and a spoonful and a half of j^east. Stir it daily, then put iii hali 
a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of isinglass shavings; stop it 
up, and bottle it six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon- peel 
in the barrel. 

Orange Wine. — To six gallons of spring water, ])ut fifteen 
pounds of loaf-sugar, and the whites of four eggs well beaten ; 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises take it 
ofi"; when cold, add the juice of fifty Seville oranges and five 
lemons ; pare twelve oranges and five lemons as thin as possible, 
put them on thread, and suspend them in the barrel fgfcoce 
month, then take them out, and put in two pounds of loaflKjgar 
and bang it up. 

Excellent Cowslip Wine. — To every gallon of water weigli 
three pounds of lump sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking 
off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust ot 
toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in the 
tub thirty-six hours : tlien into the cask put, for every gallon, the 
juice of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, 
and one gallon of cowslip pips, then pour on them the liquor. It 
must be carefully stirred every day for a week ; then to cvctj 



ELDER WINE— CLAPvY WIXE— SAI5IX WINE. 183 

.. gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be closely- 
topped, and stand only six weeks before 3-011 bottle off. Observe 
use the best corks. 

Elder Wine.— To every quart of berries put two quarts of 
rater, boil half an hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit 
,hrough a hair sieve ; then to every quart of juice, put three quar- 
^rs of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. 
Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, 
ger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper 
varmth, into the barrel, with toast and yeast to work, which there 

more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. When 
it ceases to hissi put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop 
Lip. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in 
i warm place to make it work. 

White Elder "Vl/iiie, very mu.eh like Frcntinac.— Boil 
eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, 
and two Avhites of eggs well beaten ; then skim it, and put in a 
quarter of a peck of elder-iiowers from tlie^tree that bears white 
berries ; do not keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, 
and put in six spoonfuls of lernon-juicc, four or five of yeast, and 
beat well into the liquor ; stir it every day ; put six pounds of the 
best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, 
and bottle in six months. When vrell kept this wine will pass for 
Frontinac. 

Clary Wine. — Boil fifteen gallons of water with forty-five 
pounds of sugar, skim it ; when cold put a little to a quarter of a 
pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour 
pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary- 
flowers, picked in the dry : the Cjuantity for the above is twelve 
quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have 
sufficient to put in at once, and nmy add as they can get them, 
keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the 
flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Back it off, empty 
the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, 
stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. 

Excellent Haisin Wine.— To every gallon of spring water 
put eight pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it tho- 
roughly every day for a month ; tlien press the raisins in a horse- 
hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask, and, when 
it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy ; stop it 
close for twelve montlis, then rack it off, but without the dregs ; 
filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds ; add the 
clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandj^, ac- 
cording to the size^of the vessel. Stop it up, and^ at the end of 
three years, you may either bottle it, or drink it fresh from tlie 
cask. 'Eaisin wine v.'ould be extremely good, if made rich of the 
fruit and kept long, which improves trie flavour greatly. 

Haisin Wine with Cyder.— Put two hundredweight of 
Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon theni a hogshead of 
good sound cyder that is not rough: stir it well two or three 
davs ; stop it, and let it stand six months ; then rack it into a cask 



184 SACK MEAD -COWSLIP MEAD— IMPERIAL— EATAFIA. .% 

tliat it ^ill fill, and i^ut in a gallon of the best brand5^ If raii^ 
•\vine be muck used, it would answer well to keep a cask alwajHP 
for it, and bottle oil' one year's wine just in time to make the nek^. 
which, allowing the six months of infusion, would make the win8{ 
to bo eighteen months old. In cyder counties this way is yer^* 
economical ; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition, 
of anotlier quarter of a hundred of raisins would be sufficient, antfl 
the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressdtt'^ 
through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit b^ 
distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but ff? 
for that purpose, they must be A'cry little pressed), or they wtlr 
make excellent vinegar, on which article see page 98. The stalks, 
should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into anf* 
cask of vinegar that is making, being very acid. .,^ 

Haisiii Wine without Cyder.— Oii four hundredweight dt^. 
Malagas pour one hogshead of spring-water, stir well daily fot^J 
fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a liorse-hair bag in s?' 
press, and tun the liquor ; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. Ijti" 
six mouths rack it olf into another cask, or into a tub, and afteifj^ 
clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but do not wasfr^ 
it ; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months'^ 
bottle it. Take care of tlie pressed fruit, for the uses of which' 
refer to the preceding receipt. 

Sack Mead. — To every gallon of water put four pounds of 
honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim 
it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops, then boil it half an' 
hour and let it stand till next day ; put it into your cask, and td^' 
thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brand3^ Let it b^'^ 
lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it ver^p 
close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. ^^ 

Cowslip Mead.— Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gal^^ 
Ions of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take it off 
the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quartered/^ 
pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them ; put the re-'^*- 
raainder of the liquor into a tub with seven pecks of cowslip-pips f^*^ 
let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and th|^' 
lemoiiS to eight spoonfuls of new yeast and a handful of sweet- , 
brier : stir all well together and let it work three or four days-. : 
Strain it, and put into the cask : let it stand six months, and theii"^ 
bottle it for keeping. 

Imperial.— Put two ounces of cream of tartar and the juice '" 
and paring of two lemons into a stone-jar, pour on them seven 
quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold sweeten 
with loaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This is 
a very pleasant liquor and very wholesome ; but from thelattei"^ 
consideration was at one time drank in such ciuantities as tohe-H 
come injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum. to the whole 
quantity. 

Ratafia. — Blanch two otinces of peach and apricot kernels, 
bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. 
Dissolve half a pound of white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, 



' HASPBERRY BRANDY— MILK PUNCH. 185 

md add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, 
ind the.y are strained oif; then filter through paper, and bottle for 
ise. The leaves of peach and nectarmes, when tlie trees are cut 
a the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia 
Q.'puddings. 

'Baspbsrry Brandy.— Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone 
91', and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till 
lie juice will run; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of 
ugar, give one boil, and skim it ; when cold put equal quantities 
»r juice and brandy, shake well and bottle. Some people prefer 
t stronger of the brandy. 

An excellent Ivlethod of making Punch.— Take two^ 
ai'ge fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large 
umps of double-refined sugar. Eub the sugar over the lemons 
ill it has absorbed all the yellow pr.rt of the skins. Then put 
uto the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the 
cmons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be 
nentioned, as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, 
lud therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze 
he lemon juice upon the sugar, and with a bruiser press the sugar 
md ilic juice particularity well together, for a great deal of the 
ichuess and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing 
md mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix this 
ip very well with boiling water (soft water is best) till the wliole 
s rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sher- 
)et) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in eciual quantities, 
md ])ut them to it, mixing tlie whole well together again. The 
quantity of liquor must be according to your taste : two good 
emons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, includ- 
ng a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar; but this de- 
ends much on taste and on the strength of the siDirit. 

As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet may 
)e strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon 
)eforc they put it to the sugar, which is improper ; as, when the 
)ulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to the rich- 
less of the pmich. 

"When onl}- rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften 
he punch; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the 
)orter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. 

This receipt has never been in print before, but is greatly ad- 
nired among the writer's friends. It is impossible to take too 
nuch pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do 
hem extremely well, that all the diflerent articles may be most 
horoughly incorporated together. 

Vendor, or Milk Punch. — Pare six oranges and six lemons 
LS thin as yon can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. 
Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, stopped close, 
Aventy-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, 
md add to it four quarts of water and one of new miUc boiling 
lot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag 
;ill perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediatel3^ 



135 NoiiroLK ru:s;cji— DAiEY ai,d poultry yard. 

Norfolk Puneh.— Ill twenty quarts of Freucli brandy pu|fc 
the i^eels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that 
not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have 
ready thirty quarLs of cold water that has boiled, put to it fifteen 
pounds of double-relined sugar, and when well mixed pour it upon 
the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and^of 
twenty-four lemons ; mix well, then strain through a very firfe 
hair-sieve into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put 
two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it staad 
six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the hquor for use, observing 
great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and tlie 
corks of the best quality and Avell put in. This liquor will keep 
many years and improves by age. 

Anotiier way. — Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges 
very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-pot, put to it twc 
quarts of brandy, one of v. hite-wine, and one of milk, and one 
pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed and then coverec 
for tT^'enty-four hours, strain through a jell^'^-bag till clear, thcr 
bottle it. 

White Currant Shrub.— Strip the fruit, and prepare in i 
jar as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one 
gallon of rum and two pounds of lump-sugar ; strain through i 
jelly -bag. 



DAIRY, AHD POULTEY YAED. ? 

DAIBY. — The servants of each country are generally ac 
quainted with the best mode of managing the butter and chees( 
of that country ; but the following hints miij" not be unacceptable 
to give information to the mistress. 

On the Management of Cows, &e.— Cows should b( 
carefully treated ; if their teats are sore, they should be soakec 
in warm water twice a day, and either be dressed with soft ohit' 
ment, or done with spirits and water. If the former, great clean- 
liness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given U. 
the pigs. 

"When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strainec 
and emptied into clean pans immediately in ^vinter, but not til 
cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, 
and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. 

The greatest possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness 
in a dairy ; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should 
be kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown 
over every part very often. Tliere should be shutters to keep out 
sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. 

The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the 
udders emptied, or the quantity will decrease. The quantity ol 
milk depends on many causes ; as the goodness, breed, and health 
of the cow, the pasture, the length of time from calving, the having 
plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of 



OCSERYATIONS llESrECTll^TG CIIEi-Si:. 187 

pasture will tend to increase it. People \^'lio attend properly to 
the dairy Trill feed the cove's particularly well two or three wce'^is 
before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. I:i 
gentlemen's dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty 
of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. 

!For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady-Day to 
May, tliat the large cp.antity of milk may come into use about the 
same time ; but in gentlemen's families one or tvro should calve in 
Aug-ust or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, 
the average produce of a dairj^ is about three gallons a day each 
cow from Lady-Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christ- 
mas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to fourteen 
or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. 

'V^^'hen a calf is to 136 reared, it should be taken from the cow 
in a Vv'eek at farthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, 
because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it 
from the cow in the morning, and keep it vrithout food till the 
next morning : and then, being hungry, it will drink without dif- 
ficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whe}', just as warm as new milk, 
should be given twice a day in such cjuantity as may be requu-ed. 
If milk runs short, smooth gruel mbced with milk will do. At 
first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night, and 
morning. 

"When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, 
a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to provide for a good 
winter store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get 
some one to write dovrn for her the produce of every week, and 
set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold 
should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another 
part of the book should be stated the poultry reared, in one leaf, 
and the weekly consumption in another part. 

Observations respecting Cheese.— This well-known ar- 
ticle difiers according to the pasture in which the cows feed. 
Various modes of preparing may effect a great deal; and it will 
be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands or the 
contrary ; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. 
The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and remarkably 
fine cheese ; but yet due care may give one pretty good, when the 
other excels in qualit}-. 

"When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of 
method may amend the inferior. There is usually, however, too 
much prejudice in the minds of dairy people., to make them give 
up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the 
eye of the superior. A gentleman ha-s been at the expense of 
procuring cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it 
is affirmed thcit the Cheshire, double Gloucester, I^orth Wilt- 
shire, Chedder, and msmy other sorts, are so excellent as not to 
discredit their names. 'As the cows are all on one estate, it 
should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause 
of the difference in flavour : besides, there is much in the size and 
manner of keeping. 



188 TO PREPABE EENNET— 10 MAKE CHEESE. 

CiiGcse made on tlie same ground, of new slrimmed, or mixed 
milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, but also in tasteJ 
Those who direct a dairy in a gentleman's family should consider 
in which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Eveii 
with few co\A s, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable 
pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor>i 
tioning the thickness of tlic vat to the quantity, rather than having 
a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellovr. The addi^ 
tionof apound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause 
the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from 
that usually produced by it. ■ ■{ 

A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely 
hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be ver}' advantageous 
for tlie use of the parlour. Cheese for common family use will be 
very well produced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; 
or Oil good land, by skim milk only. Butter likewise should be 
made, and potted down for winter use, but not to interfere with tli^ 
cheese as above, Mhich will not take much time. 

To Prepare Rennet, to Turn the Milk.— Take out the 
stomach of a caif as soon as killed, and well scour it inside and 
out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it'i 
Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up w ith two good handfuls 
of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in 
the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by 
fresh Avater. 

Another way. — Clean the maw as above ; next day take two 
quarts of fresh spring water, and put into it a handful of haw- 
thorn tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a 
stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of 
knotted marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil 
gently to three pints of water ; strain it off"; and when only milk- 
warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into 
it ; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It 
will keep good at the least twelve months, and has a very fine 
flavour. \ on may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. 
It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turningl 
Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on 
sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Do not keep 
it in a hot place vrhen dry. 

To Make Cheese. — Put the milk into a large tub, warming 
a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; if too hotj 
the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as Avill turn it, 
and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; then 
strike the curd down several times with the skimming dish, and 
let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking 
the curd; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, 
according as cither is observed ; one is, to gather it T^ ilh thehand^ 
very gently towards the side of tlie tub, l-tting the v.licy j)as.3 
through tlie fingers till it is cleared, and ladincr it off as it collect.^. 
The other is, to get the whey from it by early breakmg the curd ; 



TO PRESEEVE CHEESE SOUKD— TO MAKE CREAM CHEESE. 189 

t lie last metliod deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is 
tlierefore less proper. 

Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by 
the skimmer ; press the curd close Avith your hands, and add 
more as it sinks ; and it must be finally left two inches 
above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth 
must be laid at the bottom ; and when full, drawn smooth over 
on all sides. 

There are two modes of salting cheese ; one b}' mixing it in the 
curd while in the tub, after the whey is out ; and the other by 
];utting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with 
i: . after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first 
iiiothod appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and there- 
('■le the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under 
a "id over the vat, and place it in the press ; in two hours turn it 
out and put a fresh cheese-cloth : press it again for eight or nine 
hours ; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it 
stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the 
cheeses last made undermost. Before putting them the last time 
into the vat pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat 
should have lioles at the sides and at bottom, to let all the \a hey 
pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald 
them. 

■ To Preserve Cheese Sound.— Wash in warm whey, when 
you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. 
If you want to ripen it quick, a damp cellar will bring it forward. 
When a whole cheese is fresh cut, the larger quantity should be 
spread with butter inside, and the outside Aviped to preserve it. 
To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out 
from cold water, and wrai^t round them when carried from table. 
Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for serving with 
macaroni or eating Avithout. These observations are made with 
a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most fami- 
lies where much is used there is waste. 

To Make Sage Cheese.— Bruise the tops of young red sage 
in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; 
mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you 
like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, 
and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches 
aboA^e one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn 
every day. 

Cream Cheese. — Put five cj[uarts of strippings, that is. the 
last of the milk, into a ipan with two spoonfuls of rennet. When 
the curd is come, strike it down two or three times Avith the skim- 
ming dish just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a 
clieese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; 
break the curd a little Avith your hand, and put it into a vat with 
a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it 
out and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from one 
board to another ; cover them with nettles, or clean "dock-leaves, 



190 OBSERVATIONS RESrECTING BUTTER. 

and place botvrccu t\vo pewter plate_s to ripen. If the wcatlier be 
Tvarni, it will be ready in three weeks. 

Another. — Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five 
quarts of new milk into a pan, and five pints of cold water, and 
five of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will 
bring it in twenty minutes, likewise a bit of sugar. When come, 
strike the skiiumer three or four times down, and leave it on the 
curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat without toucliing it ; 
put a two-]50und weight on it -r hen the whey ha^ run from it, and 
the vat is full. 

Another Sort.— Put as much salt to three pints of raw cveam 
as shall season it ; stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which' 
you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid 
the bottom. Yv'hen it hardens, cover it wdth nettles on a pewter, 
plate. 

'Rush. Cream Cheese.— To a quart of fresh cream put a pint 
of new milk, warm enough to make the cream a proper ^varmth, a 
bit of sugcir. and a little rennet. 

Set near the fire till the curd comes ; fill a vat made in the form 
of a brick, of wheat straw or rushes sewed together. Have 
ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and 
another to cover it ; the vat being open at top and bottom. Kext 
day take it out, and change it as above, to ripen. A half pound 
weight will be sufficient to put on it. 

Another way, — Take a pint of very thick sour cream from 
the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkin on two plates, 
and pour half into each; let them stand twelve hours, then i^ut 
them on a fresh wet napkin in one plate, and cover with the 
same ; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese be- 
gins to look dry, then ripen it with nut leaves ; it will be ready 
in ten days. 

Fresh nettles, or two pewter plates will ripen cream cheese very 
well. 

Observations respecting Butter.— There is no one article 
of family consumption more in use, of great variety in goodness, 
or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, than 
this, and the economising of which is more necessary. The sweet- 
ness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned, of which 
it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the taste 
is very disagreeable ; and the following ways have been tried with 
advantage to obviate it : — 

When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every six gal- 
lons one gallon of boiling vcater. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre 
in a pint of spring vrater, and put a quarter of a pint to every 
fifteen gallons of milk. Or, Vvlienyou churn, keep back a quarter 
of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a v>ell-scalded pot, into 
which you are to gather the next cream ; stir that well, and do so 
with every fresh addition. 

To Make Butter.— During summer, skim the milk vrhen the 
sun has not heated the dairy ; at that season it should stand for 
butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in 



TO PEESEKVE EUTTEll i:^ WINTER. 191 

Shinier. Deposit tlie cream-pot iii a very cold cellar, if your dairy 
s not more so. If you cannot cLurn dail^^ change it into fresh 
lealded pots ; but never omit turning twice a week. If possible, 
[)ut the churu in a thorough air ; and if not a barrel one, set it ia 

tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the 
butter. When the butter is come, pour off the buttermilk, and 
put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs, vrhich have after- 
wards been in cold water. Pour vrater on it, and let it lie to 
icquire some hardness before you work it ; then change the water, 
and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of 
the buttermilk i-emain, and that the water, which must be often 
changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into 
it, -neigh, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water in 
an earthen pan and cover of the queen's ware. You will then 
have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires 
more working in hot than in cold weather ; but neither should be 
left with the least particle of buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is some- 
tiaies done. 

To Preserve Butter. — Take two parts of the best common 
salt, one part good loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them 
well together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed 
from the muk, put one ounce of this composition ; work it well, 
and pot down, when it^has become firm and cold. 

Tiie butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should 
not be used under a month. This article should be kept from the 
air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will hold from 
ten to fourteen pounds each. 

To Preserve Butter for Winter, the best Way.— When 
the butter has been prepared as above directed, take two parts of 
the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of 
saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composition 
put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together 
in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool ; 
for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. 
The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put 
some salt ; and when that is turned to brine, if not enough to 
cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It re- 
quires only then to be covered from the dust. 

To Manage Cream for Whey Butter.— Set the whey onG 
day and night, skim it, and so till you have enough ; then Doii it 
and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, 
skim it till no more comes ; then churn it. Where new milk 
cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and present use 
may be made to advantage. 

To Scald Cream, as in the West^f England.— In winter 
let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the simimer tvrelve at 
least ; then put the milk-pan on a hot hearth, if you have one ; if 
not, set it in a clean brass kettle of water, large enough to receive 
the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no 
account boil, or there will be a skin instead of cream upon the 
milk. You t^ ill know v.hen done enough, by the undulations on 



192 M.VNAGEMEXT OF l^OWLS. 

the siirfafo looking tliielv, and liavino: a ring round tlie pan ihi 
size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends or 
tlie size of the pan and the heat of the fire ; the slower the better 
Jlemove the pan into the dairy when done, and slfim it next day 
In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less thai 
two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of creaft 
thus prepared, and if properly done it is very firm. 

Buttermilk. — If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and moa 
wholesome food. Those Avho can relish sour buttermilk, find i 
still more light ; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptitsi 
eases, liuttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream i^ 
] eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar and mixed with 
^^very little milk. It like\vise does equally for cakes and rice-pud 
dings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream i 
too stale for anything but to feed pigs. 

To Keep Milk and Cream.— In hot weather, when it is dil 
cult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, i 
]aay be kept perfectly- sweet by scalding the new milk very gently 
without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish or i^an tha 
it is done in. This method is pursued in Devonshire, for butte 
and eating, and would equally answer in small quantities fo 
cofl'ee, tea, &c. Cream already- skimmed may be kept twent;v 
four hours if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as muc 
powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be goo 
two days, keeping it in a cool place. 

Syrup of Creami may be preserved as above in the proportio 
of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fres 
cream ; keep it in a cool place two or three hours ; then put it i 
one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep goo 
thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful on Ion 
voyages. 

Gallino Curds and Whey, as in Italy.— Take a numbt 
of the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls 
clean them from the pebbles they contain ; rub them well v, it 
salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and del 
cate curd than common rennet. AVhen to be used, break ofl" som 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water : in eight or nin 
hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. 

To Choose Butter "at Market.— Put a knife into the buttc 
if salt, and smell it when drawn out ; if there is anything ranci 
or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, tb 
layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come i 
the goodness but by unliooping the cask, and trying it betwee 
the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be < 
an equal colour a.l through : if sour in smell, it has not been sufi 
cientl}^ AAashed ; if vemy and open, it is probably mixed with stale 
.or an inferior sort. 

POULTBY- YARD. — Management of Powls.—In oi 
der to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good hreei 
and have proper care taken of them. The Dartforcl sort is thougl 
highly of, and it is desirable to have a fine large kind, but peop] 



MANAGEMENT OF FOWLS. 193 

tjiiTer in their opinion of which is best. The black are very juicy, 
ut do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their 
olour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same 
our and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, 
ad then cut, and either wet with skimmed milk or not, form one 
f the best foods. Turkeys and fowls thrive amazingly on them, 
'he milk must not be sour. 

The best age for setting a hen is from two to five years ; and 
ou should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep 
aose to laying who are giddy and careless of their young. In 
tstice to the animal creation, however, it must be obser^'ed, there 
re but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is 
ecessary. 

Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided 
)r their laying, as these will be proper for sitting likewise. If 
26 hen-house is not secured from vermin, the eggs will be sucked, 
ud the fowls destroyed. 

Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers 
n their heads ; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable, 
ome fine young fowls should be reared every year, to keep up a 
tock of good breeders ; and by this attention and removing bad 
lyers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good 
I tock. 

Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should 
e done from the end of February to the beginning of May. 
¥"11116 hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. 

Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, but 
hose that come out very late require much care till they have 
ained some strength. 

If the eggs of any other sort are put under the hen with some 
f her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others 
g there is a diiference in the length of their sitting. A turkey 
nd duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her 
(pon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If the eggs 
re large, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither 
riil be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. 

A hen-house should be large and high, and should be frequently 
leaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But 
lens must not be disturbed while sitting, for, if frightened, they 
ometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be 
•lanted plentifully about their houses ; boil some of the former, 
nd sprinkle it about the floor, which should be of smooth earth, 
lot paved. The windows of the house should be open to the 
ising sun, and a hole must be left at the door to let the smaller 
owls go in ; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door, 
'here should be a small sliding board to shut down when the 
owls are gone to roost, which would prevent the smaller beasts of 
•rey from committing ravages ; and a good strong door and lock 
lay possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of 
luman enemies. 

'When some of the chickens aro hatched long before theother?, 

2i 



194 TO MAKE nENS LAY— TO FATTEN rOAYLS OP. CHICKEXS. 

it may be necessary to I'cep tlieni in a basltet of -ft'ool till tl 
cllicrs come forth. Tlie clay after tlicy arc liatclied give thti- 
some crumbs of white bread., aud small (or rather cracked) gri 
soaked in milk. As soon as tliey have gained a little strengtl 
feed them with curd, cheese-parings, cut small, or any soft foG< 
but nothing sour, and give them clean water twice a day. Ke( 
the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow h< 
about, which will bo in tvro or three weeks ; and be sure to fbt 
her well. 

The food of fowls goes first into their crop, v.liich softenS' 
and tlien passes into the giz7;ard, which by constant friction mae 
rates it; and this is facilitated by sm.all stones, which are gen 
rally found there, and which help to digest the food. 

If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well wash) 
with a decoction of white lupins. The pip in fowls is occasiom 
l^y their drinking dirty water, or takinti" filthy food. A white th 
scale on the tongue is the s.ymptom. Pull the scale oil' vvilh yo' 
nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint w 
be removed. 

It answers well to pay some boy employed ui the farm or stab, 
so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his inters 
then to savetlieni from being purloined, which nobody but one 
his situation can prevent ; and sixpence or eiglitpence a score w 
be buyina- eggs cheap ._ 

To'Mako Hens liay.— Dissolve an ounce of Glauber's sa' 
in a quart of water ; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of t 
liquor, and feed the hens two days, giving^ tliem plenty of ck 
v>'ater to drink. The above quantity is sutiicient for six or eig 
liens. They should have plent.y of clean water in reach. It 
few days they will produce eggs. 

To Fa,tten Fowls or Cinckens in Four or Five Bays. 
Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as mucli as ^A 
serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is c[uite swelled out ; y 
may add a tea-sx)oonful or tvro of sugar, but it will do well wit 
out. Feed them tliree times a day, in common pans, giving the 
only as much as will cjuite fill them at once. When you put fret 
let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be conveyed 
the fov.ls, as that prevents them from fiittening. Give them cle 
M'ater, or the milk of the rice, to drink; but the less wet t!ie latt 
is when perfectly soaked the better. Ey this method the lie 
will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives ; and v.h 
it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how nni 
time is saved by this mode, it v, ill be found to be as cheap 
barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, a' 
no food given for sLxteen hoiu's before poultry be killed. 

To CI10033 Eggs at Itiarketj and Preserve them.— P 
the large end of the cg^i. to j^our tongue ; if it feels warm it is ne 
In new-laid eggs there is a snndl division of the skin from t 
shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at t 
end. On looking through them against tiie sun or a candle, 
fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not tros 



FEATITERS—rjUCKS— GEESE. 195 

Egg.3 niaj' be bought cheapest when the hens first begin to lay 
in the s})rmg, before tliey sit ; in Lent and at Easter tliey become 
iear. They may be preserved fresh by dipping them in boiUng 
R^ater and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell, 
ither of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it ; or 
<ept on shelves with small holes to receive one iii each, and be 
urned every other day ; or close packed in a keg, and covered 
fith strong lime-water. 

iPcathers. — In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, 
the feathers, t\ Inch may occasionally come in small quantities, are 
aeglected ; but orders should be given to put them into a 
tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper 
bags, a fe^v in each ; they shoidct hang in a dry kitchen to season : 
jfrcshones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will 
occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same 
process. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds, or to 
ke pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool 
oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six 
months. 

Dueks generally begin to lay in the month of February. 
Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem 
inclined to sit ; then leave them., and see that there are enough. 
They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food 
at the time tlie.y come out to seek it : and there should be water 
placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not 
be si)oiled by their long absence m seeking it. Twelve or thirteeji 
eggs are enough. In an early season it is best to put them tinder 
a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little 
strength to bear it, which in very cold weather they cannot do so 
well. They should be kept under cover, especially in a wet season ; 
for though Vv'ater is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt 
to be killed by the cramp before they arc covered with feathers to 
defend them. 

Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which 
would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the 
water to lay in are advantageous, andtlicse might be small wooden 
houses, with a partition in the middle, and door at each end. 
They eat anything, and when to be fattened must have plenty, 
however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. 

G-eeS3 require little expense, as they chiefly support them- 
selves, on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The 
Lirgest are esteemed best, as also are the v.liite and grey. The 
pied and dark-coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally 
the time the goose sits, but in warm v.cather she will sometimes 
hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded bran 
.and light oats ; and as soon as the goslings are hatclied, keep 
them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them v. ilh barley- 
mesd, bran, curds, &c. For green geese, begin to fatten them at 
six or seven weeks old, and iced them as above. Stubble gee.se 
require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. 

Turkeys arc very tender when young. As soon as hatched, 
N 2 



19G PEA. FOWL— GUINEA HENS— PIGEONS. 

put tliree pepper-corns down tlieir throat. Great care is nccei 
sary to their well-being:, because the hen is so careless that sh 
will walk about with one chick, and leave tlic remainder, or eve 
tread upon and kill them. Turkeys are violent eaters, and mm 
therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, excej 
one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-iive or tliirty days 
and the young ones must be kept warm, as the least cold or dani 
kills them. They must be fed often, and at a distance from tfi 
lien, who will eat everything from them. They should hav 
curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk wit 
chopped wormwood in it ; and their drink milk and water, bu 
not left to be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, there 
fore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come 
weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at very small crevices. 

Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to th 
sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should no 
be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelv 
eggs are enough to put under a turkey, and when she is about t< 
lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usualh 
begm to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen 
house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustou 
them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oats or barle; 
for the first fortnight ; and tlie last fortnight give them as above 
and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire', twice a day. Thi 
flesh will be beautifully white and fine flavoured. The commo: 
way is to cram them ; but tliey are so ravenous that it seems unne 
cessary, if they arc not suffered to go far from home, which make 
them poor. 

Pea Fowl.— Feed them as you do turkeys. They are so sh^ 
that they are seldom found for some days after hatching ; and i 
IS very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in th< 
idea of brmging them home ; for it only causes the hen to carr\ 
the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying sh( 
treads upon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he car 
get at, by one blow on the centre of the head with his bill ; and h( 
does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crowi 
come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep them out o. 
his way till the feathers rise. 

Guinea Hens lay a great number of eggs ; and if you car 
discover the nest it is best to put them under common hens 
which are better nurses. They require great warmth, quiet, 
and careful feeding witli rice swelled w ith milk, or bread soaked 
in it. Put two peppercorns down their throat when first 
hatched. 

Pigeons bring two young ones at a time, and breed every 
month, if well looked after and plentifully fed. They should be 
kept very clean, and the bottom of the dovecote be strewed with 
sand, once a month at least. Tares, beans, and peas, are theii- 
proper food. They should liavo plenty of fresh water in their 
house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, 
and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise are their great enemies, and 



SrCK COOKERY— GKNEPv A L TtEMARKS. 197 

lestroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame 
)ig:cons of the common kind and of their own colour among 
hem. Observe not to have too larg:e a proportion of cock 
)irds ; for they are quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove- 
ote. 

Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them healthy. Lay a largo 
leap of cla}- near the house ; and let the salt brine that may be dono 
vitli in the family be poured upon it. 

Bay salt and cummin seeds mixed are a universal remedj" for (he 
liseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby ; 
n which case, take a ciuarter of a pound of bay salt, and as much 
common salt, a pound of fennel seed, a pound of dill seed, as much 
ummin seed, and an ounce of assafoetida ; mix all with a little 
rheaten flour, and some fine-worked clay ; when all are well 
)eaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in 
he oven. When cold, put them on the table in the dovecote ; 
he pigeons will eat it, and thus be cured. 

Rabbits. — The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great 
are is taken to keep the tame dehcately clean. The tame one 
jrings forth every month, and must be allowed to go with the 
)uck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, 
ow-thistle, parsley, carrot tops, cabbage leaves, and bran, fresh 
md fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, 
heir stench will destroy themselves, and be very unwholesome 
all who live near them ; but attention will prevent this in- 
3onvenieDce. 



COOKERY FOR THE SIGS!, AND FOR THE 
POOR. 

TiiE following pages will contain cooker.y for the sick ; it being of 
more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not 
allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to stimu- 
late that of persons in health. 

It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of 
the things most likely to agree with the patient ; that a change 
be provided ; that some one at least be alwaj-s ready ; that not 
too much of those be made at once, which are not likely to 
keep, as invalids require variety ; and that they should succeed 
each other in diff'erent forms and flavours. 

A clear Broth that will keep long.— Put the mouse round 
of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, ancl a few shanks of mutton, into 
a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse cnist : bake till 
the beef is done enough for eating, Avith only as much water as 
will cover. AVhen cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to 
be used, give what flavour may be approved. 

A Quick-made Broth.— Take a bone or two of a neck or 
loin of mutton, take off" the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a 
gpiall tin saucepan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint 
of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits ; put a 



19S BliOTII OF I3EEP, MUTTOX, AND VEAL~EEL EllOTII. 

bit of lliyme and parsley, and if approved a slice of onion. Let^f 
boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off tlie cover, if lilcely to \>( 
too weak ; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for tlie wliok 



process. 

A very Supporting Broth against any kind of Weak- 
ness.— Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large liand 
ful of chervil, in two cjuarts of water to one. Take off part of tht 
fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pin 
three or four times a day. 

A very Hoiirisliiiig Veal Brotli.~!Put_ the knuckle of; 
leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, aiK 
four shank-bones of mutton extremely weU soaked and brui-=ed 
three blades of mace, ten pepper corns, an onion, and a large bit o 
bread, and three cjuarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close 
and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, andbeci 
skimmed : or bake it ; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted 
It "^^ill require four hours. 

Srotli of Beef, Mutton, and Veal.— Put two pounds o 
lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mut 
ton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin saucepan 
with five quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts ; and clear fron 
the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. 

Soup and broth made of different meats are more supporting, & 
well as better flavoured. 

To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible 
and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting 
cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up everj i 
particle. 

Calves' Feet Broth..— Boil two feet in three quarts of watc: 
to half; strain and set it by; when to be used, take off the fat 
put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with half a glas: : 
of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutnieg, and beat it up till it b( 
ready to boil, then take a little of it. and beat by degrees to th( 
yolk of an ef!:(x, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg 
stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a bit of fresl 
lemon-peel into it. 

Another. — Boil two calves' feet, two ounces of veal, and two o 
beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of mace, hal: 
a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three 
pints ; strain, and take off the fat. 

Chicken Broth.— Put the body and legs of the_ fowl tlial 
chicken panada was made of, as in page 200, after taking off the 
skin and rump, into the vrater it was boiled in, with one blade oi 
mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmei 
till tlie broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add 
a. little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds, with a tea- 
spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, when cokL 
remove the fiit. 

Eel Broth. — Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on: 
with three pints of water, some parsley, one. slice of onion, a fe\^ 



Dli. liATOLIFF's EESTOEATIVE POKK JELLY. 199 

epper-corns ; let lliem simmer till tlie eels are broken, and tlie 
rotli good. Add salt, and strain it off. 

The above should make three half-pints of broth. 

Tench Broth. — Make as eel broth above. They arc both 
ery nutritious, and light of dig:estion. 

Beef Tea.— Cut a pound of fleshy beef into thin slices ; sim- 
aer ^vith a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once 
oiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has 
enerallv onlv salt. 

Tt. iiatciilf's Hestorative Pork-jelly.— Take a leg of 
rell-fed pork, just as cut np, beat it, and break the bone. Set it 
»Ver a gentle fire, with three gallons of water, and simmer toone. 

let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nuimegs, stew in it. 

train through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a 
liocolatc CUD the first and last thing, and at noon, putting salt to 

?tc. 

Shank Jelly. — Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then 
n-ush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan v,iih 
hrce blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or 
orty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread 
nade very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to 
hem, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered ; let tliem sim- 
\er as geutly as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put 
t in a cold place. 

Tills may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for 
lavour. It is a rcinarkably good thing for people who are weak. 

Arrow-root Jelly.— Of this beware of having the Avrong sort, 
or it has been counterfeited with bad efiect. If genuine, it is 
erv nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a saucepan 
iiil'f a pint of wateV, a glass of sherry, or a spoonful of brandy, 
,rated nutmeg, and finesugar ; boil once up, then mix by degrees 
nto a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, 
rtitli tv.o spoonfuls of cold water; then return the whole into the 
auecpan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on 
to V,- ash it two or three times, then soak it in fresh vrater five or 
six liours, and simmer it in the same until it become cruite clear ; 
then put lemon-juico, wine, and sugar. The peel should have 
been boiled in it. It thickens xery m-jch. 

Gloucester Jelly.— Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn 
shavina-s, and eriiigo-root, each an ounce ; simmer with three 
phits of water to one, and strain it. When cold it: will be a jelly ; 
of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with 
oth.er nourishment. 

Panada,made in five minutes.-Setalittle water on the fire 
with a glass of v.hite wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg 
aiid lemon-peel; n^.eanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The 
moment the mixture boils upj'keeping it still on the fire, put the 
crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper 
thickness just to drink, take it off. 



200 CHICKEN PANADA— A GREAT RESTOEATIVE. 

^ Another.— Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, po 
m a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter ; sugar as abov< 
This is a most pleasant mess. •■ 

Another.— Put to tlie water a bit of lemon peel, mix ih 
crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon o 
orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if anyb 
added after, the panada will break, and not jelly. 

Chicken Panada.— Boil it till about three parts ready, in . 
quart of water, take off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold 
and put mto a marble-mortar ; pound it to a paste with a little o 
the water it was boiled in, season with a httle salt, a grate of nut 
meg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a fev 
mniutes to the consistency you hke ; it should be such as you cai 
drink, though tolerably thick. 

This conveys great nourishment in small compass. 
Sippets, when the Stomach will not receive Meat.- 
On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread. an( 
pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there i; 
no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. 

Eggs.— An egc broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixer 
with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tci 
solely. 

An egg divided, and the yolk and wliite beaten separately, thei 
mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesonu 
draughts, and prove lighter than Avhen taken together. 

Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity 
convey much nourishment : the yolk only, when dressed, shouk 
be eaten by invalids. 

A great Restorative.— Bake two calves' feet in two pints o 
water, and the same quantity of new milk, in ajar closely covered 
three hours and a half. When cold remove the fat. 

Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. Whatevei 
flavour IS approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon. 
or mace. Add sugar after. 

Another.— Simmer six sheep's trotters, two blades of mace, a 
little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little 
isinglass, in two quarts of water to one ; when cold, take off the 
fat, and give near half a pint twice a- day, warming with it a little 
new milk. 

Another.— Boil an ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty Jamaica 
peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread in a quart of water to a 
pint, and strain it. 

This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house ; of which a 
large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, 
or any way. 

Another, a most pleasant Draught.— Boil a quarter of an 

ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new milk, to half: add 

a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. 

Give this at bed-time, not too warm. 

aV^^^^ flummery, blancmange, and jellies, as directed in pages 

141, M3, and 147, or less rich according to judgment. 



COLD CAUDLE— EICE CATJDLE— TO MTJLL WINE. 201 

Caudle.— Make a fiuc smooth gruel of lialf-grits ; strain it 
rhen boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When to be used, add 
ugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Somp like a spoonful 
if brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. 

Anotiier. — Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, Avith a bit of butter 
he size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of 
vhite wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. 

Another.— Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, when it is 
joiliiig hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with 
I large spoonfufof cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. i\Iis 
?y degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like 
2;rucl, with a glass of table beer, sugar, &c., v.ithor without a tea- 
spoonful of brandy-. 

Cold Caudle.— Boil a quart of spring water ; when cold, add 
:he 5'olk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonfuls of 
jweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. 

A Flour Caudle. — Into five large spoonfuls of the purest 
kvater rub smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set oyer the 
!ire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it; 
\he moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it 
Dver a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently 
istringent food. This is an excellent food for babies who have 
neak bowels. 

Rice Caudle. — When the water boils, pour into it some 
rated rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper con- 
sistence add sugar, lemon peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of 
brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. 

Another. — Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain 
it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of 
milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve ; then put the pulp 
and milk into the saucepan with a bruised clove and a bit of white 
sugar. Simmer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two 
of milk, and serve with thin toast. 

To Mull Wine.— Boil some spice in a little water till the 
flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar, 
and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with toast. 

Another way.— Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nut- 
meg a few minutes in a large cupful of water ; then pour to it a 
pint of port wina, and add sugar to your taste : heat it up and it 
will be ready. 

Or, it may be made of good British wine. 

To Make Coffee. — Put two ounces of fresh ground coffee, of 
the best quality, into a cofFcc-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of 
boiling water on it ; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two 
or three times, and return it again , then put two or three isin- 
glass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on 
it ; boil it five minutes more, and set the )3ot by the fire to keep 
hot for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beautiful clear- 
ness. 

Pine cream should always be served with colFee, and either 
pounded sugar-candy or fine Lisbon sugar. 



202 COFFEE MILK— CHOCOLATE— PATENT COCOA— 8\L00P. 

If for foreigners, or tliose wlio like it extremely slronp^, make 
only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it 
before a fire until perfectly hot and dry ; or you may put the 
smallest bit of fresh butter into a prcsfrviug pan of a small -u'lz^?, 
and when hot,_throw- the coffee in it and toss it about until it he 
fresl-ened, letting it be cold before ground. 7 

Coffee Milk, -— Eoil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in 
nearly a pint of milk a quarter of an hour ; then put into it/a 
shaving or two of isinglass and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, 
and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. 

'i'his is a very fine breakfast ; it should be sweetened with real 
Lisbon sugar of a good quality. 

Chocolate.— Iliose v.ho use much of this article v.ill find the 
following mode of preparing it both useful and economical. 

Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits ; put a pint of watei 
into the pot, and when it boils put in the above ; mill it oif the 
jire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils ; pour it 
ijito a bnsin, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, 01 
more. "When wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it will) 
sugar, and mill it vrell. 

This, if not made thick, is a very good breakf^-st or supper. 

Patent Cocoa is a light wholesome breakfast. 

Saloop. — Boil a little water, wine, lemon peel, and sugar to- 
gether; then jnix with a small quantity of the powder, previousl.y 
rubbed smooth, with a little cold water; stir it altogether, and 
boil it a few minutes. 

Milk Porridge.— Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled; 
strain off'; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be ap- 
proved. Serve with toast. 

French Milk Porridge.— Stir some catmeal and water to- 
gether, let it stand to be clear, and pour oiTthe latter ; pour fresli 
upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through ? 
fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing. Th€ 
proportion of water must be small. 

This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of weak 
I>ersons, abroad. 

Ground-rice Milk. — T'oil one spoonful of ground-rice i-ubbed 
down smooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, 
lemon peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. 

Sago. — To prevent the earthy taste soak it in cold water au 
hour ; pour that off, and wash it well ; then add more, and sinmier 
gently till the berries are clear, with lemon peel and spice, if ap- 
proved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. 

Sago Milk. — Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wliolly 
with new milk. It swells so much that a small quantity will be 
sufficient for a quart, and when done itv\-ill be diminished to about 
a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. 

Asses' Milk far surpasses any imitation of it that can be 
made. It phould be milked into a glass that is kept warm by 
being in a basin of hot water. 

The fixed air that it cojitains gives some people a pain in the 



AETIFICIAL ASSES MILK— WATER GKUEE. 203 

stomacli. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be tal^en witli 
it, but should ojily be put ia tlie moment it is to be swallowed. 

Artincial Asses' Milk. — Boil together a quart of water, a 
quart of new milk, an ounce of \vhite sugar-candy, half an ounce 
of eringo-root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be 
^vasted. 

This ia astringent, therefore proportion the doses to the effect 
and the quantity to what will be used Avhile sweet. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, 
and an ec:q well beaten ; sweeten with pounded white sugar- 
candy. TJiis may be taken twice or thrice a day. 

Anotlior. — l>oil two ounces of hartshorn-shavings, two ounces 
of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, and one dozen 
of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. 
Mix with it an equal quantity of new milk, when taken twice a 
day. 

Water G-rnel. — Put a large spoonful of oatmeal b^^ degrees 
into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. 

Another v/ay. — Eub smooth a largo spoonful of oatmeal, 
with two of water, and pour it into a pint of vratcr boiling on the 
fire ; stir it well, and boil it quick, but take care it does not boil 
over. In a quarter of an hour strain it oil', and add salt and a bit 
of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. 

Barley Gruel. — Wash 4 oz. of pearl-barley, boil it in two 
quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; 
strain and return it into the saucepan with sugar, and threc- 
quicrters of a pint of port wine. Heap up, and use as wanted. 

A very ?cgreeable Drink.— Into a timibler of fresh cold 
water, pour a table-spoonful of capillaire, and the same of good 
- viiu^gar. 

''- Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants or 
cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with a little sugar, or not, as 
may be agreeable. 

A Kefreshing Drink in a Fever. — Put a little tea-sage, two 
sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel into a stone jug, having 
first washed and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear 
from the white ; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in, then pour in 
three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. 
, Another Drink. — Wash extremely v.ell an ounce of pearl- 
-barlej' ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce 
of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon peel ; boil till 
you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and 
capillaire. 

Another. — Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half 

of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned 

raisins, till near a third be consumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon 

peel, v.hich remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left 

' long. 

V _ A most pleasant Drink.— Put a tea-cupful of cranberries 
into a cup of water, and mash them. In the meantime boil two 
quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of 



201 YEAST AND WATER— PAULEY WATER— lEirOlf WATER. 

lemon peel ; then add tlio cranberries, and as mncli fine Lisboil 
sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit ; and about f, 
quarter of a pint of slierrv, or less, as maj^ be proper; boil thb 
^vlloL' for half an hour, and strain oif. 

Soft and Fine Draught for those who are weak and 
have a Coil gh. — Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it well with a 
(luartcr of a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capil- 
laire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg, scraped. Do not 
warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. ' 

Toast and Water.— Toast slowly a thin piece of breadlill 
extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge 
it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. 
This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine 
brown colour before drinking. 

Barley Water.— Wash a handful of common barley, then 
simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon x)eel. 

This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barlej- ; but the other is 
a very pleasant drink. 

Another way. — Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes, 
to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water, simmer an hour ; when 
half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon peel, and one bit of 
sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of 
a pint of water. Lemon juice may be added if chosen. 

Lemon Water, a Delightful Drink. — Put two shces of 
lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit 
of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour hi a pint of boiling; 
water, and stop it close two hours. 

Apple Water. — Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a 
quart of boiling water on them, or on roasted apples ; strain it two 
or three hours, and sweeten lightly. 

Raspberry Vinegar Water.— (See page 168.) This is one 
of the most delightful drinks that can be made. 

Whey. — That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially 
when the cows are in fresh herbage. 

White Wine Whey.— Put half a pint of new milk on the 
fire ; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine 
as will completely turn it, and look clear ; let it boil up, then set 
the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour 
the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boihng water, and a bit 
of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of 
milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. 

Vinegar and Lemon Wheys. — Pour into boiling milk as 
much vinegar or lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite 
clear, dilute with hot Mater to an agreeable smart acid, and put a 
bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine ; 
and if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. 

Buttermilk, with or w^ithout Bread.— It is most whole- 
some Mhen sour, as being less likely to be heavj' ; but most agree- 
able when made of sweet cream. 

Dr. Boerhaave's Sweet Buttermilk. — Take the milk 
from the cow into a small churn, of about 6s. price ; in about ten 



OllANGEADK— EGG WINE— OOOKEEY TOE THE POOE. 205 

-jninutcs begin cliurning, and continue so to do till the flakes of 
butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk has discharged all ' 
the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through 
a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. 

It should form the whole of the patient's drink, and the food 
should be biscuits and rusks, in ev^ry way and sort ; ripe and 
dried fruits, of various kinds, when a decline is ai>i3rehended. 

Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent 
suppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake. 

Orgeat. — Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of 
orange-llower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a 
quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar, or 
capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest ; 
and in the gout it is highly usefid, and, with the addition of half 
an ounce oi gum arable, has been found to allaj^ the painfulness of 
the attendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if 
thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of 
orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. 

Another orgeat, for company, is in page 168. 

Orangeade, or Lemonade. — Squeeze the juice from a dozen 
of the fruit; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover 
close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When 
all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as 
much more water as will make a rich sherbet ; strain through a 
jelly-bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and 
capillaire. 

Egg Wine. — Beat an egg, mix it with a spoonful of cold water ; 
set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, 
and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by 
degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well ; then return the whole 
into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not 
more than a minute : for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will 
curdle. Serve with toast. 

Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, 
and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to 
the taste. 

COOKERY FOR THE POOR.— General Remarks 
and Hints. — I promised a few hints, to enable every family to 
assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial ex- 
pense : and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of 
the mistress. 

Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable pre- 
sent, and a very common one. 

When the oven is hot, a large pudding may be baked,_and given 
to a sick or young familj^ ; and thus made, the trouble is little : — 
Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of 
coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of 
dripping ; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but 
be an excellent solid food. 

A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, 
t\ Lieh is thus made :— Gut a very thick upper crust of bread, and 



206 A BAKED SOUP. 

l)ut it Into tlio pot wiicrc palt bcei' i:^ boiling' and near rendy: ^ 
■nill attract some of tlie fat, and wlien swelled out, will be no mny 
palatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. t 

,^-'A Bailed Soup. — Put a pound of any kind of meat cut iiv 
slices ; two onioui^ two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pintr 
of split peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, pepper and salt, 
into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. Covecp 
it ver;>' close, and bake it with the bread. / 

^The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every pieee 
of meat, ham, tongue, &c., however salt : as it is easy to use only? 
a part of that, and the rest of fresh water, and by the addition (^ 
ijiore vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the 
pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch 
barley, or o;itmeal, there A\ill be some gallons of nutritious soup 
two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only 
warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, c:c., boiled till 
they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put m the 
boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and 
second cooking. 

Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, 
celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; cut them small, 
and throw in v.'iih the thick part of peas, after the:>' have been 
pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been 
used for gruel. 

Should tlie soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, 
and different vegetables, will afford l)etter nourishment than the 
laborious poor can obtain ; especially as the}' are rarely tolerable 
, cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But in 
1 every family there is some superfluity ; and if it be prepared with 
j cleanliness and care, the benefit wiU be very great to the receiver, 
j and the satisfaction no less to the giver. 

■ I found, in the thne of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup 
could be dealt out v.'cekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, 
though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about 
\ London, abounding with opulent families, the cjuantity of ten gal- 
i Ions were made in ten gentlemen's houses, there would be a 
1 hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the 
I supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half 
\ each. 

i What a relief to th2 labouring husband, instead of bread and 

\ clicese, to have a warm comfortable meal ! To the sick, aged, and 

infant brandies, how important an advantage ! nor less to the iu- 

. dustrious mother whose forbearance from tiie necessary quantity 

. of food, tliat others may have a larger share, fi'equently reduces 

that strength upon which the welfare of her family cssentiaily 

depends. 

It very rarely happens that servants object to seconding the 
kindness of their superiors to the poor; but should the cook in 
any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gra- 
tuity at the end of the winter might repay her, if the love of her 
fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundredfold. Did she readily 



AN EXCELLENT SOUP FOR THE WEAKLY. 207 

enter into it, she would never wa^li away, as useless, tlic peas or 
grits of wbich 80up or ^mel liad been made ; brolcen potatoes, 
the green heads of celery, the necks and feet of foAAis, and 
particularly tlae slumlcs of mutton, and various other articles 
wliich in prepai'ing dinner for the family are thrown aside. 

Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten 
only, but the bones, heads, and tins, which contain isinglass. 
"When the fish is served, let the cook put by some of the water, and 
stew in it the above ; as likcv^ ise add the gravy that is in the dish, 
imtil she obtain ail the goodness. If to be eaten bj' itself, when 
it makes a delightful broth, she should add a very small bit 
of onion, some pepper, and a little rice flour rubbed down smooth 
with it. _ 

But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat 
soup, particularly for the sick ; and .vheu such are to be supplied, 
the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for 
them, with little, if any, of the liquor of the salt meats. 

The fat should not be taken cif the broth or soup, as the poor 
like it, and are nourished by it. 

An eseellent Soup for the Weakly.— Put two cow-lieels, 
and a breast of mutton, into a large pan, with four ounces of rice, 
one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers, and twent.y black, a turnip, a 
carrot, and four gallons of water ; cover with brown paper, and 
bake six hours. 

Sago; — Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a 
bit of lemon peel; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add 
half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar and two spoonfuls of 
CTf-ueva ; boil all up together. 

It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has left 
very feeble. 

Caudie foj the Sick and Lying-in.— Set three quarts of 
water on the fire ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken 
the whole, with a pint of cold vrater ; Avhen boiling pour the latter 
in, and twenty Jamaica peppers in fine powder ; boil to a good 
middling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well-fermented 
table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. 

This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalcu- 
lable service. 

There is not a better occasion for charitable commiseration 
than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent 
vinexpectedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost 
appetite. 

Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for in the 
highest houses a real good sick cook is rarely met with ; and 
many who possess all the goods of fortune have attributed the 
first return of health to an appetite excited by good kitchen 
phj'sic, as it is called. 



208 TO MAKE SOFT POMATUM— POMADE DIVINE. 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS FOI 
SERVANTS. 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS.— To Make Soft Pomatum.- 
Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common Avater ; thei 
soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it witli twi 
spoonfuls of brandy ; let it drain from this, add to it some essenc' 
of lemon, and keep it in small pots. 

Another way.— Soak half a pound of clear beef-marrow au( 
a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two or three days, chang 
ins 21^4 Seating it every da}-. Put it into a sieve, and when dry 
into a jar, and the jar into a saucepan of water. When meltecl 
pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy 
drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, begamot, o 
any other scent that is liked. 

Hard Pomatum. — Prepare equal quantities of beef-marrov 
and mutton-suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, an( 
adding the scent ; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none 
into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. "When cold 
break the bottles, clear away the glass carefu%, and put pape; 
round the rolls. 

Pomade Divine.— Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow 
from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel o; 
water fresh from the spring, and change the water night an( 
morning for ten days; then steep it in rose-water twenty- fou; 
hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce o 
each of the following articles — namely, storax, gum-benjamin 
odoriferous cypress-powder, or of Florence : half an ounce of cin 
namon, two drams of cloves, and two drams of nutmeg, all finely 
powdered ; mix them with the marrow above prepared, then pu 
all the ingredients into a pewter pot that holds three pints ; mak( 
a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of raj 
Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the 
pot very close that none of the steam maj' evaporate. Put the po) 
into a large copper pot, with water, observing to keep it steady 
that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the 
marrow. As the water shrinks, add more boiling hot, for it musi 
boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment 
through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. 
Do not touch it with anything but silver. It will keep many 
years. 

A iine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh 
marrow, prex)arcd as above, and two ounces of hog'B-Iard, on the 
ingredients : and then observing the same process as before. 

Pot Pourri. — Put into a large china jar the following ingre- 
dients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers ; two 
pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown, violets, 
orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each; orris-root sliced, 
benjamin and storax, two ounces of each ; a quarter of an ounce 



TO 3I1KE WASH-BALLS— PISTE FOE, CHAPPED LIPS. 20D 

of musk, a quarter of a pound of angelica-root sliced, a quart of 
the red parts of clove-gillyflowers, two handfuls of larender- 
flowcrs, lialf a handful of rosemary-flowers, bay and laurel leaves, 
luUf a handful of each; three Seville oranges, stuck as full of 
cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded ; half a hand- 
ful of knotted marjoram, and two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. 
Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is 
very fine. 

A quicker Sort of Sw38t Pot. — Take three handfuls of 
orange-flowers, three of clove-gillyflowers, three of damask roses, 
one of knotted marjoram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a 
handful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half a one of mint, one of 
lavender, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. 
Chop all, and put them in layers, with pounded bay salt between 
up to the top of the jar. 

If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you 
get them, always throwing in salt with every new article. 

To Make "Wash-Balls. — Shave thin two pounds of new- 
white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water ; then pour as 
much boiling water on it as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a 
pint of sweet oil, four pejiny- worth of oil of almonds, half a pound 
of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved; then add the 

tp, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to 
powder by rubbing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirits of 
wine or lavender-water, or ar^^ other scent. Boil ten minutes, 
tben pour it into a basin, and stir it till it is qiuite thick enough to 
roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as pos- 
ible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the 
fire that the flavour may not fl}^ ofl". 

Paste for ChapiDed Hands, and which will preserve them 
smooth by constant use. — Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted 
hog's lard, whicli has been washed in common and then rose- 
^vater, with the yolks of two nevr-laid eggs and a large spoonful of 
honey. Add as much fine oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work 
into a paste. 

For' Chapped Iiips.— Put a quarter of an ounce of gum ben- 
jamin, storax, and spermaceti, twopenny-worth of alkanet-root, a 
large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a 
(juarter of a pound of unsalted butter, and two ounces of bees-wax 
into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax. &c., are 
dissolved, and then strain it through a linen cloth. When cold 
melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes, or if to make 
cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. 

Hungary Water. — To one pint of highly rectified spirit of 
wine put an oQncc of oil of rosemary and two drams of essence of 
ambergris ;.. shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork 
remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which 
time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. 

Honey Water.— Take a pint of spirit as above, and threo 
drams of essence of ambergris ; shake them well daily. 





ftm tlVENDER -WATEE— BLACK INK. 

Lavender "Water.— Take a pint of spirit as above, essentia' 
oil of lavender one ounce, essence of ambergris two drams ; pu 
all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. 

An excellent Water to prevent Hair from Falling-of 
and to Thicken it. — Put four pounds of unadulterated lionej 
into a still, witk twelve lianduils of the tendrils of vines, and tb 
same quantity of rosemary -tops. Distil as cool and as slowly ai 
possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins t( 
taste sour. 

Black Paper for Drawing Pa.tterns. — ]\Iix and smooti 
lamp-black and sweet-oil : with a bit of flannel cover a sheet o: 
two of large writing-paper with this mixture ; then dab the pape; 
dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it hy for using in the follow 
ing manner. 

Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten th' 
corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the blacl 
paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of ; 
steel pencil ; the black paper will then leave the imi^ression of tli( 
pattern on the under sheet, on which you must now draw it witl 
ink. 

If you draw patterns on cloth or muslin, do it with a pen dippe( 
in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixec 
smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use ; i 
fresh, wet to a due consistence as wanted. 

Black Ink. — Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and thre. 
quarters of a pound of blue galls, bruised ; infuse them threi 
weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas 
four ounces of logwood chips, six ounces of gum arable, and : 
wine-glassful of brandy. 

Another way.— The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one o 
the best preparations for this useful article. Directions are givei 
with it how to mix it ; in addition to which, a large cup of swee 
wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness of thi 
japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it cost: 
only eighteen-pence, and that quantity will last a long time. 

To Cement Broken China,— Beat lime into the most im 
palpable powder, sift it through line muslin ; then tie some into i 
thin muslin, put on the edges of the broken china some white o1 
egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite then 
exactly. 

An excellent Stucco, which will adhere to Wood- 
work. — Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yellow 
ochre, and a ciuarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine powder. 
Mix them with a sufficient quantity of hot (but not boiling) water, 
to a proper thickness ; and lay it on with a whitewasher's brnsli, 
which should be new. If the wall be quite smooth, one or tr^o 
coats will do ; but each must be dry^ before the next is put on. 
The month of March is the best season for doing this. 

Mason's Washes for Stucco— Bine.— To four pounds of 
blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water, 
in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the 



TO TAKE STAINS OF ANY KII?D OUT OF LINEN. 211 

imc. Then pour it into an earthen pan ; and set it by for a day 
)r two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix the 
!olour with whitewasher's size. Wash the walls three or four 
imes, according as is necessarj'. 

Yellow. — Dissolve in soft water, over the fire, equal quantities 
eparately of umber, bright ochre, and blue black. Then put it 
nto as much whitewash as you think sufficient for the work, some 
3f each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add 
iiore of the others till you have the proper tint. 

The most beautiful whitewash is made bj' mixing the lime and 
;ize with skim milk, instead of water. 

Roman Cement, or Mortar for outside Plastering, 
Dr Briek-work. — This will resist all weather ; and may be used 
;o great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate it. 

Take eightj'-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of un- 
jlacked lime and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through 
m iron grater. When well mixed, add enough hot (but not boil- 
ing) water to make into a proper consistence for plastering, such 
i quantity of the above as is wanted. It must have good and 
juick working. One hod of this mortar will go a gTcat way, as it 
s to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being 
.eft uncovered. The vrall or lath-work should be covered first 
nith hair and lime-mortar, and well dried. This was used by the 
ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does 
better than auy other of this country. 

TO TAKE STAINS OP ANY KIND OUT OF 
LINEN .—Stains caused l3y Acids.— Wet the part and lay 
Dn it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting it 
with more water. 

Another. — Let the cloth imbibe a little water without dipping, 
and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The 
>pots will be removed by the sulphureous gas. 

Another way. — Tie up in the stained part some pearlash ; 
hen scrape some soap into cold soft water to m-ake a lather, and 
boil the linen till the stain disappears. 

Stains of Wine, Fruit, &c., after they have been long 
In the Linen.— Hub the part on each side with yellow soap. 
Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it 
well in, and expose thelinen to the sun and air till the stain comes 
out. If not removed in three or four days, rub that off, ancl re- 
nevr the process. When dry it may be sprinkled Avith a little 
water. 

Many other Stains may be taken out bj^ clipping the linen in 
sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun. — Then wash it in cold 
water, and dry it, tvro or three times a day. 

Ironmoulds should be wetted ; then laid on a hot water- 
plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. If the 
linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the process ; observing that 
the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the 
name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation ; and therefore it 
is necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it 

2 



212 TO DYE THE LININGS OP PrUNITUIlE. 

as soon as the stain is removed to prevent the part from beinj 
uoni into holes bv the acid. 

To Take out Mildew.— Mix soft soap with starch powdered 
linlf as inuch salt, and the jnice of a lemon ; lay it on the part o 
both sides with a painter's brush. Let it lie on the grass daj^ anl 
niixht till the stain comes out. 

To Make Fianneis Keep their Colour, and not Shrink 
—Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting then 
lie till cold the first time of wasliing. '^ 

To Preserve Furs and Y/ooUen from Moths.— Let tfi. 
former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter bi 
brushed and shaken. When not wanted, dry them first, let then 
be cool, then mix among tliem bitter apples from the apothecary's 
in small muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, care 
fully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. 

TO DYE THE LmiNGS OF FURNITURE, &c.-^ 
BulF or Salmon Colour, according to the Depth of th» 
Hue. — Eub down on a pewter plate twopenny-worth of Spanisl 
arnatta, and then boil it in a pail of water a quarter of an houi 
Put into it two ounces of potash, stir it round, and instantly pu 
in the lining ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which mus 
be fiA^e or six minutes; then put it into cold pump water, am 
hang the articles np singly without ringing. When almost dry 
fold and mangle it. 

Pink. — The calico must be washed extremely clean and b 
dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces o 
alum : take it out, and dry in the air. In the meantime boil i 
the alum-water two handfuls of wheat-bran till quite slippery, an^ 
then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounce 
of argall finely pounded and sifted ; mix it with the liquor b; 
little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico, and boil til 
it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the calico, ant 
wash it in chamberdye first, and in cold water after ; then rinse i 
in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it ii 
folds. Mangle it very highl3% unless you have it calendered 
which is best. 

Blue. — Let the calico be washed clean and dried ; them mi: 
some of Scot's liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient U 
cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it, to give s 
light stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deei 
enough ; then set the linen, &c., into it, and wash it ; then dry tht 
articles singly, and mangle or calender them. 

To Dye Gloves to look like York Ta,n or Limerick 
according to the Deepness of the Dye.— Put some safFroi 
into a pint of soft v^ater boihng hot, and let it infuse all night 
next morning wet the leather over with a brush. The tops shoulc 
be sewn close to prevent the colour from getting in. 

To Dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple.— Boil foui 
ounces of logwood and two ounces of roohe-alum in three pintf 
of soft water till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after strain 
ing. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; then with a brush do ii 



o 



DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 213 

ver them, and when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless 
he colour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye 

ith a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an ecrp:, and with a 
ponge rub it over the leather. The dye ^^■ill stain the hands, 

ut wetting them with vinegar will take it oiF, before they are 
Fashed. 

A Liquor to V/ash Old Deeds, &c. on Paper or Pa^rcli- 
aent, when the Writing is Obliterated, or when Sunk, 
make it Legible.— Take five or six galls, bruise them, and 
ut them into a pint of strong white wine : let it stand in the sun 
wo days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of 
lie writing which is sunk ; and by the colour you will see whether 
t is strong enough of the galls. 

To Prevent the Rot in Sheep. — Keep them in the pens till 
he dew is off the grass. 

To Prevent Green Hay from Firing.— Stuff a sack as full 

f straw or hay as possible ; tie the mouth with a cord ; and make 
he rick round the sack, drawing it up as the rick advances in 
leight, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the 
entre preserves it. 

To Preserve a Granary from Insects and Weasels.— 
^lake the floor of Lombardy poplars. 

To Destroy Crickets. — Put Scotch snuff upon the holes 
vhere they come. 

DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS.— To Clean Calico 
Purniture when taken down for the Summer.— Shake off 
loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furni- 
ure brush; after which wipe it closelj' with clean flannels, and 
ub it with dry bread. 

If properly done, the curtains will looknearl3' as well as at first, 
md if the colour bo not light, they will not require washing for 
'•cars. 

Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. 

While the furniture remains up, it should be preserved from 
he sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours ; 
md the dust may be blo\Mi off with bellows. 

By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even to use 
vith the linings newl}^ dipped. 

To Clean Plate. — Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn- 
>o\vder in a quart of water ; m hile on the fire, put into it as much 
)late as the vessel will hold : let it boil a little, then take it out, 
Irain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the fire. Put in 
nore, and serve the same, till 3-ou have done. Then put into the 
vater some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, 
hey will serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things 
clean the brass locks and finger-plates of doors. Yv^hen 
he plate is quite drj% it must be rubbed bright with leather. 
Chis is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a 
nixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious ; and, among 
ther disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle that from a fall it 
vill break. 



214 TO mESERVE GILDING, A2.'D CLEAN IT. 

To Clean Looking-glasses— Eemove the fly-staine, and 

otht-r soil, b}' a damp nig; tlien polish witli woollen cloth and. 
powder blue. 

To PreservG Gilding, and Clean it.— It is not possible to 
provoiit flics from staining the gilding without covering it ; before : 
Avhich, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or dean brush 
over it ; then, with strips of paper cover the frames of your glasses, 
and do not remove it till the flies are gone. 

Linen takes off" the gilding, and deadens its brightness: it 
should therefore never be iised for wiping it. 

Some means should be used to destroy the flies, as they injur< 
furniture of every kind, and the paper like\^ise. Bottles hung about 
with sugar and vinegar, or beer, will attract them ; or fly-v^atei 
put^iiito little shells placed about the room, but out of the reacli 
ofchildron. 

To Clean Paint.— jN"ever use a cloth, but take off the dust witl 
a lit lie long-haired brush, after blowing oft' the loose part witt 
the belloTs. With care, paint will look well for a length of time 
"When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water 
wash it off quickly, and dry immcdiatelj', or the strength of tli( 
soda will eat off the colour. 

AVhen wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from th« 
top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on thi 
unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made whicl 
will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dr; 
with old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt an< 
washed the soda off. 

To Clean Paper Hangings.— First blow off the dust wit: 
the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parte 
Take the crust into your hand, and, beginning at the top of th 
jiaper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the craml 
Do not cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and th 
crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above hal 
a yard at a stroke and after doing all the upper part, go rouu' 
again, beginning a little above where you left off. If j'ou do nc 
do it extremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to th 
paper. 

It Avill look like new if properly done. 

To Givo a Pine Gloss to Oak Wainscot.— If greasy, i 
must be washed with warm beer ; then boil two C|uarts of stron 
beer, a bit of bees'-wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonfi 
of suicar ; wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub : 
till bright. 

To Give a Fine Colour to Mahogany.— Let the tables b 
washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having first taken out an 
ink stains there may be with spirit of salt ; but it must be use 
with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and b 
instantly washed off. Use the following liquid : — Into a pint c 
cold-drawn linseed oil, put four j)enny\vorth of all:anet-root, au 
two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an cailhen vessel ; let it remai 
all night/then stimng well, rub some of it all over the tables wit 



TO TAKE INK OUT OF MAHOGANY — FLOOR CLOTHS. 215 

linen rag; yAiqtl it has lain some lime, ruh it briglifc with linen 
cloths. 

Eating-tables should be covered witJi mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to 
prevent stainiiijg, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are 
taken off, while still warm. 

To Tako Ink out of Mahogany. —Dilute half a tea-spoon ful 
of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the pare 
with a feather ; v\^atch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a 
white mark. It is, therefore, better to rub it quick, and repeat if 
not quite removed. 

Floor Cloths should be chosen that are painted on a fine 
cloth, that is well covered with the colour, and the flowers on 
which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. 
The durabihty of the cloth will depend much on these two parti- 
culars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and 
the goodness of the colours. If they have not deen allowed suffi- 
cient space for becoming hardened, a very little use will injure them ; 
and as they are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is 
necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, 
either huugup in a dry barn where they will have air, or laid down 
in a spare room. When taken up for the \\'inter, they should be 
rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by 
turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely 
well, painted and seasoned some months before laid down. If for 
passages, the width must be directed when they are sent to the 
manufactory, as thej^ are cut before painting. 

To Clean Floor-cloths.— Sweep, then wipe them with a 
flannel ; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a 
waxed flannel, and then vsitli a dry plain one ; use but little wax, 
and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or 
it may endanger your falling. Washing now and then with milk 
after the above sweeping, and dry-rubbing them, give as beautiful 
a look, and they are less slippery. 

To Dust Carpets and Floors. — Sprinkle tea-leaves on 
them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept fre- 
quently with a whisk brush, as it wears them fast ; only once a 
week, and the other times with leaves and a hau* brush. Fine 
carpets should be gently done with a hair hand-brush, such as for 
cloths, on the knees. 

To Clean Old Carpets.— Take up the carpet, let it be well 
beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand- 
brush : turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox-gall, 
and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with Hnen cloths. Then 
lay it on the grass, or hang it up to dry. 

"To Give to Boards a Beautiful Appearance.— After 
washing them very nicely clean with soap and warm water and a 
brush, wash tliem with a very large sponge and clean water._ Both 
times observe to leave no spot untouched ; and clean straight up 
and down, not crossing from board to board ; then dry with clean 
cloths, rubbing hard up and dos^•n in the same way. 

The floors should not be often T^otted. but very thoroughly 



216 TO TAKE STATXS OUT OF MAEELE. 

v>-\\en done ; and onco a weelc diy rubbed with hot sand, and tf 
lieavy brush the right way of tlie boai'ds. 

The sides of stairs or passages on aa hich are cavpets, or floor- 
cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, 
and tlic edges will not be soiled. DifFtront sponges should bo 
kept for the two above uses ; and those and the brushes should be 
well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. 

To Extract Oil from Boards or Stone. — Make a strong 
lye of pearl-ashes and soft ysater ; and add as much unslacked 
lime as it will take up ; stir it together, and let it settle a fe\if 
minutes ; bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to 
lower it as used, and scour the i^art with it. If the liquor should 
lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them ; there- 
fore do it with care and expedition. 

To Clean Stone Stairs and Halls. — Boil a pound of pipe- 
makers' clay, with a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and put 
in a pit of stone blue. Wash with this mixture, and, when dry, 
rub the stones with flannel and a brush. 

To Blacken the Fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces.— 
Mrs oil-varnish with lamp black, and a little spirit of turpentine 
to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap 
and water very clean ; then sponge it with clear water; and when 

Perfectly dry, brush it over twice v>ith this colour, letting it dry 
etweeii the times. It looks extremely weU. The lamp black 
must be sifted first. 

To Take Stains out of Marble.— Mix unslacked lime, ia 
finest powder, with the strongest soap lye, pretty thick; and in- 
stantly with a painter's brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. 
In two months' time Avash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready 
a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water ; dip a brush 
in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as comnion cleaning. 
This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear oiF 
the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be 
efiected. 

To Take Iron Stains out of Marble. — An equal quantity 
of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, 
shake it well; Avet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soffc 
linen till they disappear. 

To Preserve Irons from Bust.— Melt fresh nuitton suet; 
smear over the iron Avith it while hot ; then dust well AA'ith un- 
slacked lime pounded, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared 
Avill keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except 
salad oil, there being water in all other. 

Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when 
not used. 

Another way. — Eeat into three pounds of unsalted hogs' lard, 
two drams of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolved ; then take 
as much black lead as will make it of the colour of broken steel. 
Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c., and the steel 
wiU never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease 



TO CLEAN TIN COYEES AND TATENT PEWTER POTS. 217 

must be washed oflf with hot water, and the steel be dried before 
polishinpr. 

To Take Rust out of Steel —Cover the steel with sweet oil 
well rubbed on it, and in forty-eight hours use unslacked lime 
finely powdered, and rub until all the rust disappears. 

To Clean the Back of the Grate, the Inner Hearth, 
and the Fronts of Cast-iron Stoves.— Boil about a quarter 
of a pound of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer and a 
bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a 
painter's brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the 
soot and dust ; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of abeautilul 
brightness. 

Another way to Clean Cast Iron, and Black Hearths. 
— Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten together ; dip 
a painter's brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright Avith a 
hard brush. 

To Take the Black off the Bright Bars of Polished 
Stoves in a few Minutes.— Eub them v»ell with some 
of the following mixture on a bit of broadcloth ; Avhen the dirt 
is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand- 
paper. 

The Mixture. — Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two 
quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonfuls, 
and mix to a consistence with emery, No. 3. 

To Clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pev/ter Porter 
Pots.— Get the finest whituig, which is only sold in large cakes, 
the small being mixed with sand : mix a little of it powdered, with 
the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well and wipe clean ; then dust 
some chy whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry 
leather. The last is to x)revent rust, which the cook must be care- 
ful to guard against b}' wiping dry, and putting b.y the fire when 
they come from the parlour ; for if but once hung up without, the 
steam will rust the inside. 

To Prevent the Creaking of a Door.— Eub a bit of soap 
on the hinges. 

A Strong Paste for Paper.— To two large spoonfuls of fine 
flour, put as much pounded resin as will lie on a shilling ; mix 
Avith as much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, and 
boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. 

Fine Blacking for Shoes. —Take four ounces of ivovy 
black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table- spoonful of 
oil, and a pint of small beer ; mix them gradually cold. 



218 EILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DIKKEBS, ETC. 

BILLS OP FABE, FAMILY DINNERS, &c, 
BILLS OF FAEE, ETC. 
Li'it of various Articles in Sxison in differ etib Months. »'i 

JANUAEY. 

Poultry. — Game; Plieasants, Partridges, Hares, Eabbits^T 
AYoodcocks, Snipes, Turkeys, Capons, Pullets, Fowls, Chickens,'! 
Tajiie Pigeons. 

If'ish. — Carp, Tencli, Percli, Lampreys, Eels, Crayfish, Cod,v 
Soles, Flounders, Plaice, Turbot, Tliornback, Skate, Sturgeon, { 
Smelts, "Whitings, Lobsters, Crabs, Prawns, Oysters. ♦ 

Vegetables. — Cabbage, Savoys, Colewort, Sprouts, Brocoli,! 
Leeks, Onions, Beet, Sorril, Chervil, Endive, Spinach, Celery, 
Garlic, Scorzonera, Potatoes, Parsnips, Turnips, Brocoli, white 
and purple ; Shalots, Lettuces, Cresses, Mustard, Eape, Salsafy, 
Herbs of all sorts, dry and some green ; Cucumbers, Asparagus, 
and Mushrooms to be had, thougli not in season. 

Fruit.— Apples, Pears, Nuts,"Walnuts, Medlars, Grapes. 

FEBHUAEY' AND MAECH. 

Meat, Fowls, and Game, a? in January, with the addition of 
Ducklings and. Chickens ; which last are to be bought in London 
most, if not all the year, but very dear. 

Fish. — As the last two months, except that Cod is not thought 
so good from February to July, but may be bought. 

Vegetables. — The same as the former months, with the addi- 
tiqn of Kidney Beans. 

Fruit.— Apples, Pears, Forced Strawbernes. 

SECOND QUAETEE — APEIL, MAY, AND JUNE. 

Meat. — Beef, Mutton, Yeal, Lamb ; Venison in June. 

Poultry. — iPullets, Fo^is, Chickens, Ducklings, Pigeons^ 
P abb its. Leverets. 

Fish.— Carp, Tench, Sole, Smelts. Eels, Trout, Turbot, Lob^ 
stcrs, Chub, Salmon, Herrings, Crayfish, Mackerel, Crabs; 
Prawns, Shrimps. 

Vegetables. — As before, and in May early Potatoes, Peas, 
Padishes, Kidnej'' Beans, Carrots, Turnips, Early Cabbages, 
Cauhflowers, Asparagus, Artichokes. All sorts of Salads forced. 

Fruits. — In June — Strawberries, Cherries, Melons, Green 
Apricots, Currants and Gooseberries, for Tarts. In July — Cher- 
ries, Strawberries, Pears, I\Ielons, Gooseberries, Currants, Apri- 
cots, Grapes, Nectarines, and some Peaches ; but most of these 
are forced. 

THIED QUAETEE.— JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBEB. 

Meat as before. 

Poultry.— Pullets, Fowls, Chickens, Babbits, Pigeons, Green 
GeesG, Leverets, Turkey Poults. Two former montJis, Plovers, 
"Whcatears j Gccse iu September. 



EILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, ETC. 219 

Pish.— Cod, Haddock, "Flounders, Plaice, Skates, Tliornback, 
^liillets, Pike, Carp, Eels, Shcll-fish, except Oysters. Mackerel 

e first two months of tlie quarter, but not -aod in August 

Partridse shooting begins the 1st of September ; what is there- 
'oro used before is poached. -^^ -r^ i -n c 

Vegetables of all sorts.— Beans, Peas, French Beans, &c. 

jPpv.it. — In July— Strawberries, Gooseberries, Pme Apples, 
Plums various, Cherries, Apricots, E-aspberries, Melons, Currants, 

In^ August and September— Peaches, Plums, Pigs, Filberts, 
Mulberries, Cherries, Apples, Pears, Nectarines, Grapes. Latter 
mouths, Pines, Melons, Strawberries. Medlars and Quinces in 
the latter month. Morella Cherries, Damsons, and various 
Plums. 

OCTOBEE. 

M^at as before and Doe Yenison. , . p 

Po'.iltry and Game.— Domestic Fowls as in former quarter. 
Pheasants" from the 1st of October. Partridges Larks, Hares, 
Dotterels, xit the end of the montb A^ild Ducks, Teal, Snipes, 
T\'idgeon, Grouse. tt ti i. -o -n n 

Fish —Dories, Smelts, Pike, Peach, Halibut, Brills, Carp, 
Sa]mon Trout, Barbel, Gudgeons, Tench, Shell Fish. 

Vegetables.— As in January— Irencli Beans, last crops ot 

Fruit.— Peaches, Peas, Figs, BuUace, Grapes, Apples, Medlars, 
Damsons, Filberts, Walnuts, Nuts, Quinces, Services. 

KOYEilEEE. 

Meat.— Beef, Mutton, Veal, Pork, House Lamb, Doe Venison, 
Poultry and Game as in last month. 

Fish as the last month. ^ . ci • *. 

Vea-etables.— Carrots, Tm-mps, Parsnips, Potatoes, Skirrets, 
Scorzonera, Onion, Leeks, Shalots, Cabbage, Savoys, Colewort, 
Spinach, Chard-Beets, Cardoons, Cresses, Endive, Celery, Let- 
tuces, Salad, Herbs, Pot-Herbs. ^ , ^ ^ ,, ^, . 

Fruit.— Pears, Apples, Nuts, Walnuts, BuUace, Chesnuts, 
Medlars, Grapes. 

DECE3IBEK. 

Meat.-Beef, Mutton, Veal, House Lamb, Pork, and Venison. 

Poultry and Game.— Geese, Turkeys, Pullets. Pigeons, 
Capons, Fowls, Chickens, Eabbits, Hares, Snipes, Woodc-ocics, 
Larks, Pheasants, Partridges, Sea Fowls, Guinea-_b owls. Wild 
Ducks, Teal, Widgeon, Dotterels, Dun-Birds, Grouse. 

Fish.— Cod, Turbot, Halibut, Soles, Gurnets, Sturgeon, Carp, 
Gudgeons, Codlins. Eels,, Dories, Shell Fish. 

Vegetables as in last montli. Asparagus forced, &c. 

Fruit as the last, except BuUace, 



220 



Apyle-sauce. 



Potatoes. 



Potatoes, 



Stewed Beef 
and Onions. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 

FAMILY DINNERS. 

FIVE DISHES. 

Kuuclvle of Veal stc.ved with Eice. 
Bread-and-Eutter Pudding, 
Loin of Pork roasted. 



Peas Soup. 

(Hemove— Boiled Fuivl) 

Oyster Sauec. 

Apple-pie. 

Eoasted Beef. 

Benton Sauce. 



Pigs' Souse fried in Batter. 

{Bemove— Yorkshire Pudding.) 

Peas Soup. 

lioast Veal. 



Hessian Eagont. 

Hessian Soup, 

of tlie above. 

Leg of Lamb roasted. 



Mashed Potatoes 
grilled. 



Potatoes. 



Beef Podovics. 
{Remove— Curd Puddings,) 
Mutton Broth. 
Neck of Mutton. 



Broiled Haddocks stuffed. 

Light Suet 

Dumplings, 

Eound of Beef. 



Salad. 



Potatoes. 



Crimp Cod. 

Gooseberr}'' 

Pudding. 

Leg of Mutton. 



Potatoes. 



Brocoli. 



Salads. 



Potatoes. 



Carrots 
and Turnips. 



Carrots 
and Greens.4 



Jerusalem 
Artichokes. 



Spitchcock Eels. 
{Remove— Chine cf Lamb in Creases.) 

Damson Pudding. Stewed Carrots. 

Cold Beef. 



Scrag of Veal smothered with Onions, 
,^ , , _ {Remove— a Fruit Fie.) 

Mashed Potatoes rim- 
med with small slices Peas Soup, 
of Bacon. Hashed Hare. 



Brocoli. 3 



and BraiDS. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 

Half Calf's Head, grilled. 
{Remove — Pie or Pudding.) 

Carrot Soup. 

Saddle of Muttoji. 
Potatoes and Salad, at side iahle. 



221 



Bacon. 
Greens round. 



Boiled Neck of IMutton. 

YouDg Greens, Baked Plum Pudding. _ Turnips. 

Curric of dressed Meat, in Casserole of Eice. 



Carrots. 



Aitchbone of Beef. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Palled Turkc}^ or Fowl. 

Leg broiled. 



Greens. 



Potatoes. 



Boiled Fowls. 
{Pemove — Snowballs.) 

Patties of Greens, and 

dressed Meat. mashed Turnips. 

Chine of Bacon Pork, boiled. 



Macaroni Padding. 
Potatoes. 



SEVEN DISHES. 

Salmon and fried Smelts. 
Giblet Soup. 
Eoast Beef. 



Stewed Celery. 
Yeal Patties. 



Peas Padding. 



Leg of Pork, boiled. 
Onion Soup. 



Bread Sauce. 



Turnips and Potatoes. Plum Pudding, baked.- 

Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. 



Minced Yeal, garnished with fried Crumbs. 
Small Meat Hot Apple Pie Potatoes ia 

Pie. in change for Soup. a form. 

Stewed Onions. Beans and Bacon. 

Saddle of Mutton. 



Carrots. 



foue and five. 

(fiest couese.) 

Soup. 

Bouillie. 



Mashed Tarnips. 



2^ 



FAMILY DINNEKS. 



(second COUESE.) 
Fricassee of Sweetbreads. 
]\Iiislirooms, stewed. Lemon Pudding. 



Peas. . 



Bacon. 



Salad. 



(first COUESE.) 

Mackerel broiled, with Herbs. 

^ Butter. Greens and Carrots. 

Boiled Chickens. 

(second COUESE.) 

Beef Cecils. 

Fruit Pie. Potatoes in a shape. 

Fore-quarter of Lamb, roasted. 



Stewed Spinach. 
Oxford Dumplings. 



SEYEN AND SEVEN. 
(fTEST COUESE.) 

Broiled Salmon. 
[Remove— Chine of Pork.) 

Peas Soup. 



Orange Fool. 
Collared Eel. 



Fillet of Veal. 
{Potatoes and Mashed Turnips, on 

(second COUESE.) 

Pa gout of Palates. 



Ciu'd Star with whip. 

Pheasant. 
{Bread Sauce, on side table.) 



Mince-Pies 

Peas Pudding 

table.) 

Potted Beef 
Stewed Pears 



Curric of Babbit. 
Eel Pie. 



(fIEST COUESE.) 

Cod's Head and Shoulders." 
{Remove— Boiled TurJceij.) 



Patties 



Giblet Soup. 

Boiled Neck of MuttoB 
7 Bones. 
Small Leg of Pork. 
Four .rmall dishes of Vegetables may be put round the Soup, 
or two served at the .side table. 

(sECOI^D COUESE.) 

Fricandeau. 
Orange Pudding. Scraped Beei 

Lemon Creams. 

Anchovy Toast. . ^ Tarts 

Teal, or other wild Fowls. 



Brocoli. 
Cliickens, boiled. 



FAMILY DINNEBS. 

SEVEN AND NINE. 

(fiest COTJESE.) 

Pepper Pot. 



223 



Tongue braised. 



Hunter's Pudding. 

Celery, dishes in a 

Saddle of Mutton. JPyramid. 

{Greens and Potatoes on the side table.) 

(second couese.) 

Roasted Partridges. 

Almond Cheesecakes. Potted Clieese. 

Celery iu Easpberry Cardoons, 

White Sauce. Cream. stewed. 

Collared Beef. Lemon Pudding. 

Hare. 





NINE AND SEVEN. 






(fiest COUESE.) 




B^i: ■ 


Stewed Carp. 




Chickens. 




Cheek of Bacon. 


Parsley Butter. 




_ Batter. 


Cod sounds, White. 


Epergiie. 


Rabbits and Onions. 


Currant Jelly 




Gravy. 


Stewed Pigeons. 


Green Peas Soup. 


Cutlets Maintenon. 


{Be 


move — Haunch Venison.) 


Vegetables on side table 






(second couese.) 






Sweetbreads. 




Mushrooms 
stewed. 


Sauce Eobart. 
Trifle. 


Blancmange in 
small forms. 


Currant Tart 
with Custard. 


Bread Sauce. 
Eoasted Partridges. 


Stewed 
Cucumbers. 



Palates. 
French Pie. 
Yeal. 
Olives. 



NIl-TE AND ELEVEN, AND A EEMOVE. 
(fiest COUESE.) 

Turbot. 

{Remove— CJiicJcens.) 

Liver and Lemon Sauce. 

Carrot Soup. 

Eutlcr. 

^Aitchbone of Eeef. 
(Vegetables on side tabic.) 



Lamb's Fry. 
Tongue in Turnips. 
Eabbit Bro^^ n iu 
Fricassee. 



221 



FAMILY DINNERS. 



Stewed Pippins. 

Scalloped 

Oysters. 

Cray-lisb iu Jelly. 



(second coubse.) 

Wild Fowl. 

French 

Beans. 

Solid Syllabub in a 

glass dish. 

Peas. 
Goose. 



Lobster in 

Fricassee Sauce. 

Stewed i 

Mushrooms. 

Apricot Tart^ 

open cover." 



NINE DISHES, TWO REMOVES, AND ELEVEN 

Fish. 
{jRcmove — Stewed Beef.) 
Oxford Dumplings. 



Small Ham. 
Lamb Steaks 
round Potatoes. 



French Beans, 
in White Sauce. 

Open Tart. 

Lobster. 



White Soup. 

Fish. 
{Remove — Saddle of Mutton.) 

(second COURSE.) 

S^A■eetbreads, larded. 

Orange Jelly. 

Easpberry Cream. 

Form. 

Green Goose. 



Fricandeau. 
Turkey, boiledi 
Oyster Sauce. 
Lobster Patties. 



Prawns. 

Sago Pudding. 
Steu-cd Mushrooms. 



llabbit and Onions. 
Macaroni Pud- 
ding. 
Veal Cutlets. 



Cheesecakes. 

Peas. 
Macaroni. 



(first COURSE.) 

Fish. 

{Remove — Has/ied Cuff's Head.) 

Sauce. 

Transparent 

Soup. 

Butter. 
Fish. 
{Remove — Sirloin of Beef) 

(second COURSE.) 

Chickens. 



Easpberrv Cream. 

Trifle. 

Lemon Cr(iam. 

Ducklings. 



Lamb's Fry. 

Beef Steak 

Pie. 

Stewed Pigeons 

with Cabbage. 



Stewed Lobster. 
Asparagus. 
Apricot open Tart. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 



225 



Pigeons, stewed. 
Tongue. 
Bole Mutton. 



Easpberrv Tartlets. 
Collared Eel. 
Stewed 
Celery. 



ELEVEN AND NINE. 

(fikst COUESE.) 

Fish. 

{Remove — Ham Glazed.) 

Sauce. 

Gravy Soup. 

Butter. 

FiUet of Veal. 

(second COUESE.) 

Pheasant. 

Bread Sauce. 

Plateau. 

Gravy and Jelly 

for Hare. 

Hare. 



Sweetbread, grilled. 

Beef- Steak Pie. 

Boiled Chickens. 



Artichokes. 
Collared Beef. 
Stewed 
Pears. 



Oxford Puddings. 
Ham, 
braised. 
Lamb Steaks. 
Potatoes. 



French Beans. 
White Sauce. 
Open Tartlet. 
Anchovy Toasts. 



eleven and eleven. 

(FIEST COUESE.) 

Stewed Beef. 
White Soup. 



Fish. 
Saddle of Mutton. 

(second COUESE.) 

Sweetbreads. 

Orange Jelly. 

Whipped Cream. 

Wine EoU. 

Green Goose. 



Veal Fricandeau. 
Turkey. 
Oyster Sauce. 
Lobster 
Patties. 



Prawns. 

Muffin Pudding. 
Stewed Mushrooms. 



Fry. 

Stewed 
Cucumbers. 

Cutlets 
Maintenoa. 



eleven and eleven and two eemoves. 

(fIEST COUESE.) 

Salmon. 

(Remove— JBHsket of Beef steived, and Ugh Sauce.) 

Cauliflower. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Giblet Soup. 

Potatoes. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Soles, fried. 
{Remove— Qitarter Lamb, roasted.) 



Pigeon Pie. 
Stewed Peas 
and Lettuce. 

Veal Olives 
raised. 



2£6 

Coffee Cream. 
Easpberry Tart. 
Omelet. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 

(second course.) 
Young Peas. 

Lobster. 

Trifle. 

Grated Beef, 

Ducks. 



Eamakins. 
Orange Tourte, 
Roughed Jelly. 





LONa TABLE ONCE COVERED. 






Fish. 




Fruit Tart. 


One Turkey or Two Poults. 
Mock Turtle. 


Blancmange. 


Harico. 


Sweetbreads, larded, 


Mashed Turnips. 


Jerusalem Artichokes, 


Stewed 


Carrots thick round. fricasseed. 


Spinach. 


Cray Fish. 


Savoy Cake. 


Dried Salmon in 




Macaroni Pudding. 


papers. 
ChicKens. 


Ham, braised. 


Trifle. 




French Pie. 




Casserole of Eice 




Picked Crab. 


with Giblets. 


Stewed Celery. 




Sea Kale. 


Apple Pie and Custard. 


Young Sprouts. 


Fricandeau. 


Eich White Soup. 


Ox Eumps and 
Spanish Onions. 


Jelly Form. 


Fish. 


Cheesecakes. 


{Eemove— •Venison, or Loin of Veal.) 



GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 

Things used at First Courses.— Various Soups. Fish, 
dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boiled Meats and 
Stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. Chawls of Bacon. Turkey 
and Fowls, chiefly boiled. Eump, Sirloin, and Eibs of Beef 
roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other Eoast Mutton. Eoast Fillet, 
Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Yeal. Leg of Lamb, Loin, 
Fore-Quarter. Chine. Lamb's-head and Mince. Mutton stuffed 
and roasted. Steaks, variously prepared. Eagouts and Fricas- 
sees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fish, 
and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg of Pork, Chine, 
Loin, Sparerib. Eabbits. Hare. Puddings, boiled and baked. 
Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calf's Head different ways. 
Pig's Feet and Ears different ways. In large dinners two Soups 
and two dishes of Fish. 



^ SUPPEES. 227 

' Things for Second Course.— Birds : and Game of all sorts. 

d 8Iiell Fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted Fish. Pickled 

li ditto. Potted Birds. Kibs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. Vege- 

li tables, stewed or in sauce. French Beans. Peas. Asparagus. 

ji Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled Oysters. Spinach, and Arti- 

f fiioke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Kale. Fruit Tarts. Pre- 

1 ser\^ed-Fruit Tourtes. Pippins stewed. Cheese-cakes, various 

'. sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given 

; from page 139 to 164, with directions for preparing them, such as 

Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince 

Pies, &c. Omelet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, stewed or 

pickled. 

Having thus named the sort of things used for the two courses, 
the reader will think of many others. For removes of Soup and 
Fish one or two joints of Meat or Fowl are served ; and for one 
small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part. 
Where Yegetables and Fowls, &c., are twice dressed, they add to 
the appearance of the table the fii'st time ; three sweet things may 
form the second appearance without greater expense. 

The Bills of Fare which have been given from page 218 to 219, 
maybe modified at discretion. 

In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up with the vege- 
tables or sauces proper to it, and this in succession hot and hot. 
In others, a course of Soups and Fish; then Meats and boiled 
Fowls, Turkey, &c. Made Dishes and Game follow ; and, lastly, 
Sweet Dishes ; but these are not the common modes. 

It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do not think 
of sending up such articles as are in the house, unless ordered ; 
though by so doing, the addition of a collared or pickled thing, 
some Fritters, fried Patties, or quick-made DumpLmgs, would be 
useful when there happened to be accidental visitors ; and at all 
times it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than 
let things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is more 
increased than can be easily imagined. Yegetables are put on the 
side-table at large dinners, as likewise sauces, and servants bring 
them round : but some inconveniences attend this plan ; and when 
there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned ; besides that, by 
awkardness, the clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the 
table is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. 

SUPPEES. 

Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine very late. 
When required, the top and bottom, or either, may be Game. 
Fowls. Rabbit. Boiled Fish, such as Soles, Mackerel. Oysters, 
stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or Jerusalem 
Artichokes, in white Sauce. Brocoli with Eggs. Stewed Spinach 
and ditto. Sweetbreads. Small Birds. Mushrooms. Potatoes. 
Scallop, &c. Cutlets. Hoast Onions. Salmagundy. Buttered 
Eggs, on Toast. Cold Neat's Tongue. ^ Ham. CoUared things. 
Hunter's Beef sliced^ Husks buttered with Anchovies on. Grated 
Hung beef with Butter, with or without Rusks. Grated Cheese 

P 2 



228 STJPPEES. 

round, and Butter, dressed in the middle of a plate. Eadislies 
ditto. Custards in glasses with Sippets. Oysters, cold or pickled. 
Potted Meats. Fish. Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake, 
sliced. Pies of Birds or Fruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns, 
Cray-fish. Any of the list of sweet things. Fruits. A Sandwich 
set with any of the above articles, placed a little distance from 
each other on the table, looks well without the tray, if preferred. 

The lighter the things, the better they appear, and glass inter- 
mixed has the best effect. Jellies, different coloured things, and 
flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An elegant supper may 
be served at a small expense by those who know how to make 
trifles that are in the house form the greatest part of the meal. 

Kote. — Any of the following things may be served as a relish, with the 
Cheese, after dinner. Baked or pickled Fish, done high. Dutch pickled 
Herring. Sardines, which eat like Anchovy, but are lai-ger. Anchovies. 
Potted Char, Ditto Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and 
Sippets of Toast. Salad. Radishes. French Pie. Cold Butter. Potted 
Cheese. Anchovy Toast, &c. Before serving a Dutch Herring, it is usual 
to cut to the bones without dividing, at the distance of two inches from 
head to tail. 



INDEX. 



AccoTTifTS, necessity of keeping, 6 

Acids, stains Ccaused by, 211 ' 

Aitch-bone of beef, dii-ections for carving, 
li 

Ale, various receipts for brewing, 179, 180 ; 
refining of, ISO 

Almond cheesecakes, 127, 123 

Almond custards, 128 

Almond cream, 14i 

Almond puddings, ditferent receipts for, 
109 

Amber pudding, receipt for, 110 

American flour, 176 

Anchovies, directions for choosmg, 100; 
essence of, ib. ; how to keep when the 
liquor dries, ib. 

Anchovy toast, 153 

Apple and rice, souffle of, 139 

Apple dumplings, 117 

Apple fool, 143 

Applejelly, to preserve at table, li7: for 
preserving apricots, &c., 160 

Apple marmalade, 159 

Apple pies, directions for making, 121 

Apple pudding, baked, receipt for, 110 

Apple putts, 124 

Apnle sauce, for goose, &c., 96 

Apple trifle, 142 

Apple water, for the sick, 204 

Apples, red, in jelly, 160; dried, ib. 

Apricot cheese, 156 

Apricot pudding, receipt for, 115 

Apricots, various ways of preparing and 
preserving, 155, 156 

April, list of articles in season during the 
month of, 218 

Arrow-root jelly, for the sick, 199 

Artichoke bottoms, dressmg of, 130; pre- 
servation of, 135 

Artichokes, dressing of, 130; Jerusalem, i'6. 

Articles for domestic use, 9, 10; inven- 
tories to be kept, 10 

Asses' milk, for the sick, 202; artificial 
preparations of, 203 

Au-Choux, or royal paste, 128 

August, Ust of articles in season d'uring 
the month of, 218, 219 

Bacon-, directions for choosing, 35 ; pre- 
paration of, 64; manner of curing 
Wiltshire bacon, ib. 

Barberries, preparations of, for tartlets, 
154; in bunches, ib. 

Bai-berry drops, 163 

Barley gruel, for the sick, 203 

Barley water, for the sick, 204 

Batter puddings, receipts for, 112 



Bean pudding, green, receipt for, 116 

Beans, dressing of, 131 

Bechamel, or white sauce, directions for 
mak ing, .92 

Beef, directions for carving the different 
joints of, 14, 15 ; directions for choosing, 
31; roasting of, 37; keeping and salt- 
ing of, 40, 41 ; Dutch way of salting, 40 ; 
palates of, 45; cakes for a side-dish, ib.; 
potting of, ib. ; dressing a cold sirloin 
of, ib.; fricassee o{, ib.; dressing cold 
beef underdone, 45, 46; mincing and 
basting of, 46; a-la-vingrette, ib. ; round 
of, ib. ; rolled that equals ham, ib. ; how 
to make a pasty of, to resemble venison, 
125 ; broth of, for the sick, 193 

Beef a-la-mode, 41 ; fricandeau of, 42 ; 
stewing a rump of, ib. ; en miroton, 43 ; 
stewing brisket of, ib. ; how to press, 
ib. ; to make hunter's beef, ib. ; an ex- 
cellent mode of dressing, ib. ; collaring 
of, 44 ; steaks of, ib. ; coUop, ib. 

Beef-heart, preparations of, 4.3 

Beef-olives, dressing of, 45 

Beef-steak pie, receipt for, 104 

Beef-steak puddings, receipt for, 114 

Beef-steaks, preparation of, 44; with 
oyster sauce, ib, ; Staffordshire, ib, ; 
Italian, ib. 

Beef-tea, for the sick, 199 

Beet -roots, dressing of, 134 ; preservation 
of, 135 

Beer, various receipts for brewing, 179, 
180 ; refinmg of, 180 

Benton sauce, for roast beef, 95 

Benton tea-cakes, different kinds of, 174 

BiUs of fare for the different months, 218 
et seq. 

Birds, small, cooking of, 80 ; potting of, ib. 

Biscuit-cake, making of, 174 

Biscuits, hard, 178; plain and crisp ones, 
179 

Black puddings, directions for making, 61, 
62 

Black-caps, preparation of, 143 

Blacking for shoes, receipt for, 217 

Blade-bone of pork, cooking of the, 57 

Blanc-mange, receipt for, 142 

Blankets, preservation of, 11 

Blue, d}ing the colour of, 212 
Boards,' how to give a beautiful appear- 
ance to, 215 ; extracting oil from, 216 
Bockings, receipt for, 119 
Boerhaave's sweet butter-milk for the sick, 

204 
Brandy cream, 143 
Brandy pudding, receipt for, 116 



2S0 



INDEX. 



Brawn, directions for choosing, 35 

Brami, mock, directions for dressing, 61 ; 
souse for, ib. 

Bread, for domestic use, 11 ; on tlie mak- 
ing and baking of, 176; various kinds 
of, 177; how to discover adulteration in, 
ib. 

Bread-and-butter pudding, receipt for, 109 

Bread cake, a common one, 172 

Bread puddings, receipts for, 110, 111 

Bread sauce, receipt for, 95 

Breast of veal, directions for carving, 15 

Brentford rolls, 178 

Bre\Ying of ale and wines, and various re- 
ceipts for, 179 et seq. 

Brisket of beef, stewing of, 43 

Brocoli, dressing of, 131 

Broths, different kinds of, for the sick, 
197—9 

Brown-bread ice, 149 

Bromiing, to colour and flavour made 
dishes, 102 

Bubble and squeak, dressing of, 49 

Buns, plain ones, 175 ; rice ones, ib. 

Burnt cream, 143 

Butter, clarifymgof, for potted things, 80 ; 
to serve as a little dish, 152 ; observa- 
tions respecting, 190; making of, ib. 
preserving of, 191; keeping of, 192; 
how to choose at market, ib. 

ButtermUk, valuable uses of, 192; for 
the sick, 204 

Buttermilk pudding, receipt for, 116 

Buttock of beef, directions for carving, 15 

Cabbage, red, different ways of stewing, 
132; pickling of, 138 

Cakes, colourings for staining, 149: on the 
making and baking of, 169'; various re- 
ceipts for, 170 et seq. ; icing for, 170 

Cakes, Yorkshire, 178 

Calf'sfeetjelly, 146, 147 

Calfs head, directions for carving, 15; 
boiling of, 53, 54 ; hashing, Mcasseemg, 
or collaring of, 54 

Calf's-head pie, receipt for, 104 

Calf's hver, different preparations of, 56 

Calico furniture, directions for cleaning,213 

Cah-es' feet, broth of, for the sick, 198 

Camp vinegar, receipt for, 98 

Candles for domestic use, 10 

Caper sauce, excellent substitute for, 97 

Capers, nasturtiums for, 99; keeping of, 
139 

Carmel cover for sweetmeats, 146 

Carp, du-ections for choosmg, 21 ; boiled, 
stewed, and baked, preparation of, 27 ; 
sauce for, 94 

Carpets, dusting of, 215 ; cleaning of old 
ones, ib. 

Carrier sauce for mutton, 96 

Carrole of rice, 151 

Carrot pudfiing, receipt for, 115 

Carrot soup, directions for making, 87 

Carrots, boiling and stewing of, 133 ; pre- 
servation of, 135 

CarviDg, utility of, 5 ; directions for, 13—20 



Casserol, edging for a eurrie, 102 

Cast iron, how to clean, 217 

Caudle, difierent preparations of, for the 

sick and lymg-in, 201, 207 
Cauliflowers, boiling of, 131; iu white 

sauce, ib. ; with parmesan, ib. 
Cecils, dressmg of, 46 
Celery, stewing of, 131 
Chalot sauce, receipt for, 95 
Chantilly cake, 142 

Chapped hands and lips, pastes for, 209 
Chardoons, dressing of, 134 
Chai-ity, recommended, 8 
Chai-lotte pudding, 117 
Cheese, potted, roasted, and melted, 152 ; 

toasted, 153 ; damson and muscle plum, 

162; observations respecting, 187; 

making of, 188—190 ; preserviag of, 189 
Cheese puffs, 124 

Cheese-cakes, light paste for, 122 ; direc- 
tions for making, 126 ; the various kinds 

of lemon, orange, potato, almond, &c., 

127, 128 
Cherries, how to dry them with sugar, 158 ; 

without sugar, 159; the best way of 

drying, ib. ; in brandy, ib. ; how to 

keep, 165 
Cherry jam, 159 

Chicken broth, for the sick, 198 
Chicken eurrie, preparation of, 75, 76 
Chicken panada, for the sick, 200 
Chicken pie, receipt for, 106 ; fricassee of, 

75 ; how to pull, ib, ; braising of, 76 ; 

fattenmg of, 194 
Chimney-pieces, stone, how to blacken the 

fronts of, 216 
China, broken, how to cement, 210 
China Chilo, receipt for, 68 
China orange juice, 167 
Chocolate, &c., preparation of, 12, 202 
Chocolate cream, 145 
Cider, refining of, 180 
Clary wine, making of, 183 
Cleaning of furniture, plate, gilding, 

wainscoting, &c., 213, 214; hearths, 

stones, &c., 217 
Clouted cream, 145 
Coals, &c., use of, 12 
Cockle ketchup, preparation of, 139 
Cocoa, patent, 202 
Cod, choosing of, 21; stuffing for, 29; 

preparing and cooking of, 25, 26; 

preparation of crimp cod, 26 ; eurrie of, 

ib. ; salted, ib. ; pie, receipt for, 103 
Cod sound ragout, preparation of, 26 
Cod sounds, boiled, 26; to look like 

chickens, ib. 
Cod's head, directions for earning, 14 
Cod's head and shoulders, 25 
Codlin cream, 145 
Codlin tart, 122 
Codlins, how to scald, 14.8 ; how to keep, 

165 
Coffee, &c., preparation of, 12 ; making of 

201, 202 
Coffee cream, 144 
Coffee milk, preparation of, 202 



INDEX. 



231 



Collared beef, preparation of, 44 

College puddings, 111 

Colourings to stain jellies, &c., 149 

Cook, general hints to the, 12, 13 

Cookery, for the sick, 197 et seq. ; for the 
poor, 205 ei seq. (See Sick.) 

Copper utensils, use of, 12 

Cough, fine draught for a, 204 
I Courses, succession of, at family dinners, 
I 220-6; general remarks on, 226-8 
I Cow-heels, various modes of dressing, 48; 
: jelly of, 84 
i Cows, management of, 186, 187 

Cowslip mead, making of, 184 

Cowslip wine, making of, 182 
I Crabs, choosing of, 22; directions for 
dressing, 33 

Cracknels, making of, 174 

Crack-nuts, making of, 174 

Cranberries, different ways of dressing, 167 

Cranberry jelly, 147 

Crawfish soup, directions for making, 90 

Cray-fish, in jelly, 33 

Creaking of doors, how to prevent, 217 

Cream, a froth to set on, 146; how to 
manage for whey butter, 191 ; how to 
scald, as in the West of England, ib. ; 
keeping of, 192 ; syrup of, ib. 

Cream cheese, making of, 189, 190 

Creams, different preparations of, 143 — 6 

Crickets, how to destroy, 213 

Crimp skate, preparations of, 27 

Crusts, for custards or fruits, 120 ; excel- 
lent short ones, ib. ; for orange cheese- 
cakes or sweetmeats, ib. 

Cucumber vinegar, receipt for, 98 

Cucumbers, stewing of, 130; picklmg 
young ones, 137 

Cucumbers and onions sliced, pickling of, 
137 

CuUis, or bro>vn gravv, directions for mak- 
ing, 92 

Curd puddings, receipt for, 116 

Cru'd star, preparations of, 141 

Curds, preparations of, 141 

Curds and whev, Galhno, preparation of, 
192 

Currant dumplings, 117 

Currant jam, 159 

Currant jelly, 159 

Currant pies, making of, 121, 122 

Currant sauce for venison, 96 

Currant shrub, making of, 186 

Currant water ice, 149 

Currant -wine, making of, 181 ; very fine 
black currant, 182 

Currants, how to keep, 165 

Currie of cod, preparation of, 26 ; of lob- 
sters or prawns, 33 

Custard, a froth to set on, 146 

Custard pudding, receipt for, 115 

Custards, raised crusts for, 120 ; the va- 
rious kinds of, 126 

Cyder. ( See Cider.) 

Daibt, directions for managing, 186 etseq. 
Damson cheese, 162 



Damson dumplings, 117 

Damsons, how to keep, 165; for winter 

pies, 166, 167 
Dartford fowls, 192, 193 
Daughters, education and duties of, 4 
December, list of articles in season duiing 

the month of, 219 
Deeds, old, making a liquor to wash, 213 
Dinners, preparation of, 5 ; bills of fiirc 
for, with the diflerent courses, 220 etseq.; 
general remarks on, 226-8 
Dish, a very nice one, 70 
Domestic acquirements, observations on, 

4 et seq. 
Dough nuts, receipt for, 123 
Draught, a pleasant one for the sick, 200 
Dressing fish, observations on, 22, 23 
Drinks, refreshing, for the sick, 203 
Drops, different kinds of, 163, 164 
Duck pie, receipt for, 106 
Ducks, directions for choosing, 71 ; direc- 
tions for roasting, boiling, stewing, 
and basting, 76 ; sauce for, 94 ; manage- 
ment of, in the poultry yard, 195 
Duke of Cumber land' spudding, 112 
Diunpiings, various receipts for, 117 
Dun-birds, cooking of, 81 
Dutch puddings, receipts for, 110 
Dutch sauce for meat or fish, 95 
Dyemg, the linings of furnitm-e, &c., 212 

Eel-beoth, for the sick, 198 

Eel-pie, receipt for, 103 

Eel-soup, directions for making, 90 

Eels, choosing of, 22 ; fried and boiled, 30 

spitc-hcock, ib.; broth of, 31; collared 

ib. ; stewmg of, ib. 
Egg mince pies, 122 
Egg-sauce, cUrections for making, 95 
Egg-wine, preparation of, for the sick, 205 
Eggs, whites of, 12; how to poach, 153; 

buttered, ib. ; Scotch, ib. ; hatching of, 

193; choosing and preserving ot; 194; 

preparation of, for the sick, 200 
Elder-wine, making of, 1S3 
Enghsh bamboo, pressing and preservmg 

of, 136 
Eve's puddings, receipt for, 111 

Families, miscellaneous observations ad- 
dressed to, 3 et seq. 

Family diimers, bills of fare for, with the 
different courses, 220-6; general re- 
marks on, 226-8 

Fare, bUls of, for the different months, 218 

Feathers of poultry, 195 

February, list of articles in season during 
the month of, 218 

Females, domestic acquirements of, 5, G 

Fillet of veal, directions for carving, 15 

Firmity, Somersetshire, 141 

Fish, directions for choosing the various 
kinds of, 21, 22 ; observations on dress- 
ing, 22, 23; frymg or boiling, 23, 24; 
different kinds in season, during each 
month of the year, 218, 219 

Fish-gravy, directions for making, 93 



232 INDEX. 



Fish-pic, sauce for, 96 ; receipt for, 103 
Fish-sauce, various receipts for, 96, 97 
Fish-soups, stock for browu or wliite, 90 ; 

forcemeat for, 101 
Flannels, how to make them keep their 
colour, and not shrink, 212 

Flat cakes for keeping, 171 

Floatinj^ island, preparation of, 140 

Floor-cloths, choice and preservation of, 
215 ; cleaning of, ib. 

Floors, dusting of, 215 

Flounders, chooshig of, 22 ; stewing of, 31 

Flour, American, 176 

Flour-caudle, for the sick, 201 

Flummery, preparations of, 1-iO, 141 

Forcemeat, for forcing fowls or meat, 100 ; 
ingredients of, 101; for cold savoury 
pies, 101; for hares, pikes, soles, &c., 
ib. ; for fish soups, &c., ib. ; as for 
turtle, ib. 

Fore-handofpork,dircctions|forcooking,57 

Fowls, directions for carving, 18; direc- 
tions for choosing, 70: boiling of, 72; 
trussing of, for roasting, 73 ; boihng 
with rice, 7i ; roastmg and boiling of, ib.; 
a nice way to dress one for a small dish, 
ib.; forcing, 75 ; braising of, ib. ; blanch- 
ing of, 83 •" gravy for, when there is no 
meat to make it of, 92 ; sauce for, 93, 
94; raauagemeut of, in the poultry- 
yard, 192 et seq. 

French beans, dressing of, 131 

French bread, 177 

French pie, receipt for, 107 

French rolls, 178 

French salad, dressing of, 133 

Fricassee of cold roast beef, 45 

Fricassee of chickens, 75 

Fricassee of foAvls, &c., white sauce for, 
93 

Fricasseed lambstones and sweetbread, 
preparation of, 70 

Fritters, the different kinds of, 118, 119 

Fruit, scalding of, 12 ; preparation of, for 
children, 149 ; biscuit of, 162 ; how to 
preserve, for tarts, 167 ; stains, caused 
by, 211; difterent kinds in season 
during each month of the year, 218, 219 ; 
how to gi-eeu tlicm for preserving or 
pickling, 154; how to candy them, 76. 

Furniture, kc, dyeing the linings of, 212; 
dyeing gloves, ib. 

Furs, how to preserve from moths, 212 

Game, directions in the choice of, 70 ; di- 
rections for dressing, 71, 72; different 
kinds in season during each month of 
the year, 218, 219 
Geese, management of, 195 ; directions for 

choosmg, 71 
George pudding, receipt for, 113 
German puddings, receipt for, 110 
Giblet-pie, receipt for, 106 
Giblet-soup, directions for making, 85 
Giblets, directions for stewing, 78 
Gilding, how to preserve and clear, 214 
Ginger drops, a good stomachic, 164 



i\ 



Gingei'-wine, making of, 182 
Gingerbread, various receipts for making, 

175 
Gloucester jelly, for the sick, 199 
Gloves, dyeing of, 212 
Golden -pippins, stewed, 148 
Goose, directions for carving, 17 ; roastinj 

of, 76 ; api:)le-sauce for, 96 
Gooseberries, how to keep, 165, 166 
Gooseberi-y-fool, receipt for, 142 
Gooseberry-hops, 161 
Gooseberry -jam, 160, 161 
Gooseberry-pudcUng, 115 
Gooseberry-trifle, 142 
<iooseberry- vinegar, 93 
Grate, cleaning the back of the, 217 
Gravies, general directions for making, 83; 

coloiu-ing for, 84; a clear brown stock 

for, ib. ; different kmds of, 91—93 
Gravy, dressing and cleaning of, 91 ; with-. 

out meat, 92 ; a rich one, ib. ; for a fowl, 

ib. ; to make mutton eat like venison, 

ib. ; strong fish gravy, 93 
Gravy soup, directionsfor making, 87 
Green-goose pie, receipt for, lu6 
Green-peas, how to keep them, 129, 130; 

boiling and stewing of, 130 
Green sauce, for green geese, 95 
Greengages, how to preserve, 161 
Gromid-rice mUk, for the sick, 202 
Ground-rice pudding, 117 
Grouse, directions for cooking, SI 
Gruel, preparations of, for the sick, 203 
Gudgeons, choosing of, 22 
Guinea-fowl, dressing of, 81 
Guinea hens, management of, 196 



Haddock:, preparation of, 29; stufSiig 
for, ib. 

Haggett's economical bread, 177 

Hair, receipt for preventing its falling off, 
210 

Ham, directions for carving, 17 ; boiling 
of, 37 

Ham-sauce, receipt for, 96 

Hams, cUrections for choosing, 35; dif- 
ferent ways of curing, 62, 63 ; how to 
dress them, 64 

Hare, directions for carving, 18 

Hare pie, receipt for, 107 

Hare soup, directions for making, 88 

Hares, directions for choosing, 71 ; keep- 
ing and pamiching of, 81 ; roasting 
of, 82 ; jugging, broihng, hashing, and 
potting of, ib. 

Hartshorn jelly, 147 

Hatching of chickens, 193, 194 

Haunch of mutton, directions for carving, 
17 

Hav, green, how to preserve it from firing, 
213 

Hearth, cleaning the, 217 ; how to blacken 
the, 217 

Hen-house, should be commodious, 
193 

Hen-tm-key, directions for choosing, 
70 



INDEX. 



233 



Hens, settingaud management of, 193,19i; 
►flrtteiiing of, 194 ; to make them lay, ib. 

Herb-pie, receipt for, 107 

Herbs for domestic use, 11; frying of, 134 

Herrings, choosing of, 21 ; smoking of, 31 ; 
frying, broiling, and potting, ib.; dress- 
ing red herrings, ib. ; baking of, 32 ; 
potting of, ib. 

Hessian soup and ragout, directions for 
making, 88 

Hog-flesh, various modes of cooking, 56, 
57 

Hog's clicks, drying of, 60 

Hog's ears, forcinji: of, 60 

Hog's head, how to make excellent meat 
of, 59 

Hog's lard, preparation of, 62 

Hog's puddings, white, directions for 
making, 62 

Honey water, preparation of, 210 - 

Hotch-potch, how to prepare an excellent 
one, 63 

Hungary water, receipt for, 209 

Hunter's beef, making of, 43 

Hunter's pudding, receipt for, 11-1 

Ice, preparation of, for icing, 1-19 

Ice creams, 149 

Ice waters, 149 

Ices, different kinds of, 149 j colourings 

for staining, ib. 
Icing for tarts, 122 ; for cakes, 170 
Imperials, making of, 184 
Indian pickle, the different ways of pre- 
paring and preserving it, 135,' 136 
Ink, receipt for making, 210 ; how to take 

it out of mahogany, 215 
Insec-ts, how to preserve "a granary from, 

113 
Inventory of domestic articles to be kept, 

10 
Ironmonlds, directions for taking them 

out of linen, 211 
Irons, how to preserve them from rust, 

216 

Jams, different kinds o^ 159 ; gooseberry, 

160, 161 ; raspberry, ib. 
January, list of articles in season during 

the month of, 218 
Jaune-mange, receipt for, 142 
JeUies, different preparations of, 146, 147 ; 

colourings for staining, 149; different 

kinds of, for the sick, 199 
Jelly, for putting over cod pies, 93; to 

cover cod fish, ib. ; currant, 159; apple, 

160 ; red apple, ib. 
Jerusalem artichokes, dressing of, 130, 
July, list of articles in season during the 

month of, 218, 219 
June, list of articles in season during the 

month of, 218 

Ketchup, the different kinds of, 138, 

139 
Kidney pudding, receipt for, 114 
Kidneys, dressing of, 56, 68 



Lamb, directions for carving the fore 
quarter, 16 ; directions for choosing, 35 ; 
boiling of, 37; different modes of cook- 
ing, 68, 69; fore quarter, breast, and 
shoulder, 69 ; steaks and cutlets of, 
ib.; head and hinge, ib.; a very nico 
dish from the neck, 70 

Lamb pie, receipt for, 105 

Lamb's fry, preparation of, 69 

Lamb's sweetbreads, 69 

Lamb-stones, fricassee of, 70 

Lamprey, stcAving of, 31 

Larks, cooking of, 80 

Lavender water, preparation of, 210 

Laver, dressing of, 134 

Leek pie, receipt for, 103 

Leg of mutton, directions for carving, 16 

Lemon cheese-cakes, 127 

Lemon cream, different preparations of, 
144 

Lemon custards, 126 

Lemon drops, 163 

Lemon honeycomb, 150 

Lemon juice, how to keep, 167 

Tiemon marmalade, 156 

Lemon mince pies, 122 

Lemon peel, preservation of, 135 

Lemon pickles, preservation of, 135 

Lemon pudding, receipt for, 109 

Lemon puffs, 124 

Lemon sauce, receipt for, 96 

Lemon water, for the sick, 204 

Lemon whey, for the sick, 204 

Lemon white sauce for boiled fowls, 94 

Lemonade, receipt for making different 
kinds of, 168 ; preparation of, for the 
sick, 205 

Lemons, use of, 12 ; pickled, 137 ; pre- 
serving in jelly, 153 ; for puddings, ib. 

Lent potatoes, preparation of, 140 

Light puffs, 124 

liinen, various receipts for taking stains 
out of, 211 

Liquors, cooling of, 12 

Liver, different preparations of, 56 

Liver sauce, receipt for, 95 

Lobster patties, 124 

Lobster pie, receipt for, 103 

Lobster salads, dressmg of, 133 

Lobster sauce, receipts for, 97, 98 

Lobster soup, directions for making, 90 

Lobsters, choosing of, 22 ; potting of, 32 ; 
stewing, buttering, and roasting of, ib. ; 
currie of, 33 

Looking-glasses, directions for cleaning, 
204 

Macaeont, dressed sweet, 140; various 
preparations of, 151 

Macaroni pudding, receipt for, 115 

Macaroni soup, making of, 86 

Macaroons, making of, 174 

Mackerel, choosing of, 21; different pre- 
parations of, 28; pickled, ib.; potting 
of, 32 

Made dishes, browning to colovir and 
flavour, 102 



234 



INDEX. 



Mahogany, how to give a fine colour to, 
21 Ji; how to take ink out of, 215 

Maids, preparation of, 27 

r.Ialt, extract of, for coughs, 180 

ilarble, how to take stains out of, 216 

Marcli, list of articles in season dui'ing the 
month of, 218 

March's "Family Book-keeper," utility of, 7 

Mai-malade, different kinds otj 136; trans- 
parent, ib. ; apple, 159 ; quince, 162 

Married life, duties of, 4 

Marrow bones, dressing of, 43 

May, list of articles in season during the 
month of, 218 

Meals, articles in preparation for, 10 

Meat, directions for choosing the various 
kinds of, 34, 35; purchasing, keeping, 
and dressing of, 35 — 38; boihng and 
roasting of, 37; how to keep it hot, 38 ; 
the different kinds in season durmg 
each month of the year, 218, 219 

Meat pies, raised crust for, 108 

Melon mangoes, preparing and preserving 
of, 136 

3Ielted butter, directions for making, 98 

Mildew, directions for removing, 212 

Milk, different preparations for the sick, 
202 

Milk porridge, preparation of, for the sick, 
202; French, i'j. 

Milk punch, making of, 185 

Millet pudding, receipt for, 115 

Mince pies, directions for making, 121, 122 

Mistress of a family, directions for her 
use, 3 et seq. 

Mock brawn, directions for dressmg, 01 

Mock turtle, various preparations of, 55 

Moor game, potting of, 80 

Morels, preparation o^ 84 ; preservation 
of, 135 

Mortar, preparation of, for outside plaster- 
ing, 211 

Muffins, making of, 178 

Mvdled wme, for the sick, 201 

Mullet, red, preparation of, 28 

Mullets, choosing of, 22 

Muscle-plum cheese, 162 

Mushroom ketchup, different preparations 
of, 138, 139 

Mushroom sauce, for fowls or rabbits, 94 

Mushrooms, drying of, 99 ; powder of, ib. ; 
directions for choosing, 132; stewing 
of, ib.; pickling of; 138 

Mustard, directions for making, 99 

Mutton, directions for carding the diff'e- 
rent joints, 15, 16, 17; directions for 
choosing, 35 ; observations on keeping 
and dressing, 64, 65; leg, neck, and 
shoulder, 65; haunch of, ib.; roasting 
saddle of, ib.; fillet of braised, 66; 
harrico of, ib. ; how to hash, ib. ; boilmg 
a shoulder of, with oysters, 66 ; breast 
and loin of, ib.; kebobbed, 68; gravy 
to make it eat Mke venison, 92 ; currie 
sauce for, 96 ; how to make a pasty of, 
to resemble venison, 125 ; broth of, for 
the sick, 198 



1 ?i 



Mutton broth, Scotch, 84 

Mutton coUops, directions for cooking, 67 

Mutton cutlets, cooked in the Portuguese 

way, 67 
Miitton ham, directions for cooking, 67 
Mutton pie, receipt for, 105 
Mutton puddings, receipts for, 114 
Mutton iiunps and kidneys, dressing of, 

68 
Mutton sausages, preparation of, 67 , 
Mutton steaks, different ways of cookmg,67 

NASTUSTirMS, for capers, 99 o'l 

Nelson puddings, receipts for. 111 
Norfolk punch, making of, 186 
November, Ust of articles in season dorii^ 
the month of, 219 

Oatmeal pudding, receipt for, 110 " 

October, Ust of articles in season during 

the month of, 219 
Olives, pickled, 137 
Omelets, making of, 151, 153 
Onion sauce, receipt for, 95 
Onion soup, directions for making, 88 
Onions, stewing of, 130; roasting of, 131; 

preservation of in store, 135 ; pickle^ • 

137 
Orange biscuits, 157 
Orange butter, 148 
Orange cheesecakes, 127 
Orange chips, 157 
Orange cream, 145 
Orange-flower cakes, 157 
Orange fool, 143 
Orange jelly, 147 
Orange marmalade, 156 
Orange puddings, receipt for, 109 
Orange tart, 122, 123 
Orange wine, making of, 182 
Orangeade, for the sick, 205 
Oranges, different preparations of, 156 — S; 

cutting of, 156, 157 ; preservmg in jelly, 

158; for puddings, ib. 
Orgeat, receipts for, 168 ; preparations o^ 

for the sick, 205 
Ortolans, roasting of, 81 
Ox-cheek, stewing of, 48 ; dressing of, ib. 
Ox-feet, various modes of dressing, 43 
Ox-rump soup, directions for making, 88 
Oxford dumplings, receipt for, 117 
Oyster patties, 34, 123 
Oyster sauce, receipt for, 97 
Oyster soup, directions for making, 91 
Oysters, choosing of, 22 ; how to feed, 33; 

how to stew, boU, scaUop, or fry, ib. ; 

oyster loaves, ib. ; how to pickle, 'ib. 

Paixt, directions for cleaning, 214 
Paste for paper, directions for making, 217 
Panada, different -kinds prepared for the 

sick, 199, 200 
Pancakes, the different kinds of, 118 
Paper, for domestic use, 11 
Paper hangings, directions for cleaning, 

214 
Parsley pie, receipt for, 107 



INDRX. 



235 



•arsley sauce, how to make, vihen of 
parsley leaves are to be bad, 95 

'arsnips, mashing of, 133 ; fricassee of, ib. ; 
preservation of, 135 
■r'artridge pie, receipt for, 107 

Partridge soup, directions for makmg, 8o 

Partridges, directions for carving,19; dircc- 

■ tions for choosing, 71; directions for 

cookine, 80 ; potting of, ib. ; sauce for, 91 

'aste, different kinds of, for pastry, 119, 
120, 122; for tarts and cheesecakes, 122 ; 
royal, 128 ; for chapped hands, 209 

'astrv, 102; general directions for making, 
and various receipts for, 119 et seq. ; 
observations on, 121; on using pre- 
served fruits in, ?i. ; how to prepare 
venison for, 125 ; the diflerent kinds ct, 
1-5.126 ^^, , „ 

'atterns, preparation of black paper for 
drawing, 210 

'atties, the various kinds of— fried, oystei, 
lobster, beef, veal, turkey, sweet ones, 
&c., 123, 12-1; resembUng mince pies, 
121. 

Pea-fowls, dressing of, 81 ; management 
of, 196 

Pears for domestic use, 11 ; stevred or 
■^ baked, liS; jargonel, how to preserve, 

160 . . • f 

Peas, green, preserving and dressing ct 

129, 130 
Peas, old, stewing of, 130 
Peas soup, old and green, directions for 

making, 86 
Pepper, kitchen, preparation of, 80 
Pepper-pot, receipts for, 86, 153 
Peppermint drops, 164 
Perch, choosmg of, 22 ; preparation of, 28 
Pettitoes, directions for dressmg, 59 
Pheasant, directions for carving, 19 ; di- 
rections for cooking, 80 
Pickles, that will keep for years, receipt 
for, 63 ; rules for preparing and preserv- 
ing the different khids of, 135—133 
Pies, cold savoury, forcemeat for, 101 
Pies, apple, directions for making, 121 
Pies, savoury, general direcrions for mak- 
ing, and various receipts for, 102 — 108_ 
Pig, sucking, directions for carvmg, 17; 

scalding and roasting of, 58, 59 
Pig's cheek, how to prepare for boilmg, 

59 
Pig's feet and ears, different ways of 
dressuig, 60 ; fricasseed, ib. ; jelly of, 61 
Pig's harslet, directions for dressing, 61 
Pig's head, collaring of, 60 
Pisreon pie, receipt for, 107 
Pigeons, directions for carving, 20; direc- 
tions for choosing, 71; directions for 
dressing, 78; stewing, broiling, roast- 
ing, and pickling, ib.; in jelly, 79; pot- 
thig of, ib.; management of, in the 
poultry yard, 196 
Pike, choojing of,,21; baking of, 29; stuf- 
fing lo, ib. 
Pilchard rie, receipt for, 103 
ink, dyeping the colour of; 212 



Pipers, how to dress, 29 
Pippin pudding, receipt for, 116 
Pippin tarts, receipt for, 123 
Pistachio cream, 145 
Plaice, dressing of, 30 
Plate, directions for cleaning, 213 
Plovers, directions for choosing, 71 ; dress- 
ing of, 81; eggs of, i6. 
Plum-cakes, dhections for making:, 1/1, 

172 
Plum-pudding, receipt for, llo 
Plums, magnum bonuin, 163 
Poached eggs, 153 
Pomade divine, receipt for, 208 
Pomatum, receipt for, 208 
Poor, cookery for the, 197, 205 ei seq. 
Pork, directions for choosing, 35 ; boiling 
of, 37; salting of, -10; various ways of 
cooking, 56, 57; leg, loin, shoulder, 
neck, ice, 57 ; how to dress as lamb, ib. ; 
nickling of, 58; apple-sauce for, 96 
Po\-k-griskin, preparation of, 57 
Pork-jelly, for the sick, 199 
Pork-pies, receipt for makmg, lOo 
Pork-steaks, directions for cookmg, 53 
Porker's-head, how to roast, 59 
Porridge, milk, preparation of, 202 
Portable soup, directions for, 89 
Pot-pom-ri, receipt for, 208 
Potato cheese-cakes, 127 
Potato paste, receipt for, 120 
Potato fritters, 118 
Potato paste, 126 
Potato pie, receipt for, 107 
Potato puddings, receipts for, 113 
Potato rolls, 178 

Potatoes, boiling, broihng, roasting, fry- 
ing, and mashing of, 133 
Pots, patent pevv-ter, cleaning of, 217 
Potting of lobsters, shrimps, mackerel,^ 
herrings, and trout, 32; of beef, 45; ot 
veal 51; of game, 80; of hares, 82; 
rabbits, 83 . ^,. , . . rn 

Poultry, directions m the choice of, /O ; 
directions for cooking, 71, 72; boil- 
in", 72; roastmg, ib.; different kinds, 
in^'season during each month of the 
year, 218, 219 
Poultry-yard, 186 ; directions for manag- 

inar the, 192 et s^.q. 
Pound-cake, directions for makmg, 1/3 
Prawn-soup, directions for making, 90 _ 
Prawns, choosing of, 22 ; currie. of, 33 ; m 

jelly, ib. ; how to butter, ib. 
Preserved fruits, use of, hi pastry, 121 
Preserves, 139 ; preparation of, and vari- 
ous receipts, 154 et seq. 
Prices of articles, accjuaintanee with, 7 
Prune-tarts, 123 
Pudding, a quick-made one, 117 
Puddings, 102; general directions for mak- 
ing, and various receipts for, 108 et seq. ; 
in haste. 111 
Puif-paste, a rich one, 119 
Puffs, the various kinds of apple, lemon, 

cheese, &c., 134 
Puits d'amour, preparation of, 140 



236 INDEX. 



Punch, an excellent method of making, 
135 ; diflcrent receipts for, 185, ISG 

Quails, cooking of, 81 
Quaking-pudding, receipt for, 112 
Qucen-cakcs, making of, 173 
Quinee-marnialadc, 162 
Quinces, how to preserve them, 1G2 

Rabbit-pie, receipt for, 106 

liabbits, directions for carding, 18 ; direc- 
tions for choosing, 71 ; the different 
ways of cooking, 82, S3 ; to make a rab- 
bit taste like a hare, 83 ; potting of, il. ; 
blanching of, ib. ; management of, 197 

Ragout, directions for making, 88, 89 

Raised crusts for meat-pies, &c., 108 ; for 
custards, 120 

Raisin-wine, making of, 183; witli and 
without cider, 183, ISl, 

Ramaldns, preparation of, 152 

Raspberry brandy, making of, 185 

Raspberry cakes, 164 

Raspberry cream, l-io 

Raspberry jam, 161 

Raspberry pies, 122 

Raspberry tart, with cream, 123 

Raspberry vinegar, receipt for, 163 

RasiDberry vinegar water, for the sick, 204 

Raspberry-water ice, 149 

Raspberry wine, making of, 131 

Ratalia, making of, 184 

Ratafia-cream, 143, 144, 149 

RatcUft-s restorative pork jelly, 199 

Ready money, payment of, 7 

Receipts, a variety of, with directions for 
servants, 208 

Reeves, cooking of, 81 

Rennet, preparation of, for turning milk, 
183 

Restoratives, different kinds of, for the 
sick, 200 

Rhunaib-tart, 123 

Rice, diflerent preparations of, 150, 151 

Rice-bread, 177 

Rice-cake, making of, 173 

Rice-caudle, for the sick, 201 

Rice-jelly, 147 

Rice milk, preparation of, 150 

Rice puddings, various receipts for, 112, 113 

Rolls, receipts for various kinds of, 178 

Roman cement, for outside plastering, 211 

Rot in sheep, prevention of, 213 

Rout drop-cakes, 171 

Rufis, cooking of, 81 

Rush-cream cheese, making of, 190 

Rusks, directions for making, 175 

Russian-seed pudding, 117 

Rust, how to preserve irons from, 216; 
how to take it out of steel, 217 

Sack ceeaji, 143 

Sack mead, making of, 184 

Saddle of mutton, directions for carving,17 

Sage cheese, making of, 189 

Sago, for the sick, 207 

Sago milk, preparation of, 150 



Sago and sago-milk, preparation of* for- 

the sick, 202 

Sago-pudding, receipt for, 109 

Saimagundj', preparation of, 151 

Salmon, choosing of, 21 ; directions for 
boiling, broiling, potting, and drying, 
24 ; excellent dish of dried salmon, 2'6 j 
pickling and collaring of, ib. 

Saloop, preparation of, 202 

Salt ing of beef or pork, 40, 41 

Sanders, di-essing of, 46 

Sauce Robart, for rumps or steaks, 95 

Sauces, different kinds of, 93 et scq.; 
sauce to hide the bad colour of fowls, 93; 
for fricasijee of fowls, rabbits, &c., ib.i 
for wild fowl, carp, turkey, fowls, &c., 
94 ; a-la-maitre d'hotcl, ib. ; for green 
gceso, 95 ; for meat or fish, ib. ; for rumps 
or steaks, ib.; for hot and cold roast 
beef, ib. ; for fish pies, 96 ; for hot or 
cold meat, ib. ; for goose and roast pork, 
ib.; for venison, ib.; for mutton, ib.i 
ham sauce, ib. ; fish sauce, 96, 97 ; caper, 
oyster, and lobster sauces, 97; shrimp 
and anchovy, 93 

Sausages, cooking of, 58 ; Spadbiury's Ox- 
ford sausages, ib. 

Sausages, mutton, preparation of, 67 

Savom-y pies. (See Pies, and Puddings.) 

Scotch leek soup, directions for making, 88 

Sea-kale, boiimg of, 134 

Seed-cake, a cheap one, 172 

September, list of articles in season during, 
the month of, 218, 219 

Servants, characters of, 9 ; various useful 
receipts for, and general directions to, 
203—213 et seq. 

Shalot vinegar, receipt for, 98 

Shank jelly, for the sick, 199 

Shelford pudding, receipt for, 116 

Shoulder of mutton, directions for carv- 
ing, 15 

Shrewsbury cakes, makin? of, 173 

Shrimp pie, receipt for, 103 

Shrimp sauce, receipt for, 93 

Shrimps, choosing of, 22 ; how to butter, 
33 ; how to pot, ib. 

Shrub, white currant, 186 

Sick, cookery for the, 197 et seq. ; brotlis, 
197, 198 ; jelhes, 199 ; panadas, 199, 200 ; 
sippets, eggs, and restoratives, 200; 
different kinds of restorativesforthe.iZ*,; 
candles, 201, 207 ; mulled wine, 201 ; 
cofi^ee milk, 202 ; chocolate, saloop, and 
various preparations of milk, 202, 203; 
gruel and refreshing drinks, 203 ; water 
wheys and buttermilk, 204; orangeade 
and egg wine, 205 ; sago, 207 

Sippets, preparation of, for the sick, 200 

Sirloin of beef, directions for carving, 14} 
dressing of, 45 

Skate, choosing of, 21; preparation of, 27 j 
crimped, ib. 

Skate soup, directions for making, 90 

Smelts, choosing of, 22 ; frying of, 30 

Snipes, cooking of, 81 

Snow-balls, preparation of, 140 



INDEX. 



237 



Snow cream, 144 

Soap, use of, 11 

Soda, use of, 11 

Sole pie, receipt for, 103 

Soles, choosing of, 21 ; diifcrent modes of 

cooking, 29; in the Portuguese way, 30; 

Portuguese stuffing for, ib. 
Sorrel, stewing of, 132 
Souchy, water, preparation of, 31 
Souffle of rice and apple, 139 
Soup, baked, for the poor, 206 
Soup, an excellent kind for the weakly, 207 
Soup-a-la sap, directions for making, 89 
Soup maigre, directions for making, 89, 90 
Soups, genei'al directions for making, 83 ; 

various kinds of, 84 ef. seq.; colouring 

for, 84; a clear brown stock for, ib.; 

eonie excellent ones, 84, 85 
Spare-rib of pork, directions for cooking, 

57 
Spinach, dressing of, 131 
Spmach ci-eam, 145 

Spinach soup, directions for making, 83 
Sponge-cake, 173, 174 
Sprats, choosing of, 22 ; smoking of, 31 ; 

baking of, 32 ; dressmg of, ib. ; how to 

make them taste hke anchovies, 100 
Squab pie, receipt for, 105 
Staffordsliire dish of fried herbs and liver, 

153 
Stains, various receipts for taking them 

out of hnen, 211 ; caused by acids, 

fruits, &c., ib, ; how to take them out of 

marble, 216 
Steak puddmg, receipt for, 114 
Steaks, lamb, cooking of, 69 
Steaks, mutton, different ways of cooking, 

67 
Steel, how to take rust out of, 217 
Stock for brown or white fish soups, 90 
Stone, how to extract oil from, 216 
Stone stairs and halls, how to clean, 216 
Stoves, cleaning the fronts of, 217 ; how 

to take the black off the bright bars of, 

ib. ; mixture, for cleaning, ib. 
Straw, for domestic use, 11 
Strawberries, how to preserve them whole, 

158 ; in wine, ib. 
Stucco, an excellent kind which will ad- 
here to wood, 210; Mason's washer for, 

ib. ; yellow, 211 
Stuffing for pike, haddock, and small cod, 

29 
Sturgeon, how to dress, 26; how to roast, 

27 ; excellent imitation of pickled stur- 
geon, ib. 
Sucking pig, how to scald, 58 ; directions 

for roasting, 59 
Suet, preserving of, 154 
Suet dumphngs, 117 
Suet puddings, receipts for, 114 
Sugar, how to clarify for sweetmeats, 

154 
Sugar vinegar, receipt for, 98 
Sugars, directions for the choice of, 10 
Supper dish, a very pretty one, 150 
Suppers, bills of fare for, 227 



Sweet dishes, preparation of, and various 

receipts for, 139 ei seq. 
Sweetbreads, different preparations of, 56; 

fricassee of, 70 
Sweetmeats, 139 ; a carmel cover for, 146; 

preservation of, and various receipts for, 

154 et aeq. ; for tarts, 163; observations 

on, 161! 
Sweet-pot, receipt foi*, 209 
Sweets, rice paste for, 119 
Syllabubs, London, Staftbrdshire, Somer- 

setshu'c, Devonshire, and everlasting, 

150 

Table beer, 180 

Tansey, preparation of, 140 

Tapioca jelly for the sick, 199 

Tarts, light paste for, 122 ; icing for, 122 ; 

the various kinds of, 122, 123 
Tea cakes, making of, 174 
Teal, cooking of, 81 
Tench, choosing of, 21; preparation of, 

23 
Tench broth, for the sick, 199 
Thornback, preparation of, 27 
Time, on the economy of, 8 
Tin covers, how to clean, 217 
Tipplmg cake, receipt for, 128 
Toast and water, for the sick, 204 
Tomato sauce, receipt for, 96 
Tongue, boiling of, 37 
Tongues, directions for roasting, 46, 47; 

piekhng and stewing of, 47; an excel- 
lent way of doing them to eat cold, ib. 
Transparent pudding, receipt for, 112 
Trifle, receipt for, 142 ; apple and cake, ib.', 

a froth to set on, 146 
Tripe, the various modes of dressing, 48; 

soused, ib. 
Trout, how to fry, 28; a-la-Genevoise, ih.\ 

potting of, 32 
TrufHes, preparation of, 84; preservation 

of, 135 
Trussing, for roasting and boiling (with 

cngi-avings), 73, 75 
Tunbridge c-akes, making of, 173 
Turbot, directions for choosmg, 21 ; for 

keeping, 24 ; for boiling, ib. 
Turkey, boiling and roasting of, 72; pulled 

turkey, ib. ; sauce for, 94 
Turkey-cock, directions for choosing, 70 
Turkey-patties, 124 
Turkeys, management of, 195 
Turnip pie, receipt for, 107 
Turnip soup, directions for making, 86 
Turtle, forcemeat foi-, 101 ; little eggs for, 

102 

Uddeb, directions for roasting, 46 

Veai,, fillet and breast of, directions for 
carving, 15 ; directions for choosing, 34; 
Scotch collops of, 53 ; keeping and dress- 
ing of, 49 ; leg, knuckle, shouldei', and 
neck, and the various ways of dressing 
them, ib. ; neck of, a-la-braise, 50 ; breast 
of, and the diti'erent ways of dressing it. 



238 



INDEX. 



ib. ; chttinp of, a-la-daube, ib. ; rolls of, 
61 ; harrieo of, ib. ; a dimelm of, ib. ; 
mincing and potting of, ib. ; cutlets of, 
51, 52 ; eallops, sctillops, and fricandeau 
of, 52, 53 ; olives, cake, and sausages of, 
153 

Veal broth, directions for making, 84 ; for 
the sick, 19S 

Veal gravy, directions for making, 93 

Veal patties, 121 

Veal pies, various receipts for, 104 

Vegetable marrow,boiling or stewing of,129 

Vegetable pies, receipt for, 107 

Vegetable soup, directions for making, 87 

Vegetables, to be kept, 11 ; their tendency 
to corrode metals, 12; directions for 
dressing, and various receipts for, 129 
et seq. ; how to boil them green, 129 ; 
preservation of, ' for eating in winter, 
134; different kinds in season during 
each month of the year, 218, 219 

Vendor, making of, 185 

Venison, haunch of, directions for carving, 
16; directions for choosing, 34; keep- 
ing and dressing of, 38 ; roasting, stew- 
ing, and hashing of, 40; old currant 
sauce for, 98 : how to prepare it for 
a pasty, 125 

Venison pasty, 40 ; crust for, 119 ; dif- 
ferent preparations of, 125 

Vessels, use of, 12 

Vinegar, its tendencv to corrode metals, 
12 ; the various kinds of, 98, 99 

Vinegar whey, for the sick, 204 

Vingaret, for cold fowl or meat, 93 

Wafees, making of, 174 
Wainscot oak, how to give a tine gloss to, 
214 



Walnut ketchup, preparation of, 139 
Walnuts, pickling of, 138 
Wash-balls, receipt for making, 209 
Waters, diflcrent preparations of, for the 

sick, 204 
Water cakes, making of, 173 
Water-gruel, for the sick, 203 
Waters, receipt for diiferent kinds of 

209, 210 
Weasels, how to preserve a granary from 

213 
Welsh pudding, receipt for, 117 
Welsh rabbit, making of a, 153 
Wheat bread, 177 
Whey butter, how to manage cream for 

191 
Wheys, diflerent kinds of, for the sick 

204 
Whitings, choosing of, 21 ; preparatior 

of, ih. 
Widgeon, cooking of, 81 
Wild ducks, cookmg of, 81 
AVild fowl, roasting of, 81; sauce for, 94 
Windsor beans, dressing of, 131 
Wine, refining of, 180; mulling of, 201 

stains caused by, 211 
Wine rolls, 143 
Wine vinegar, receipt for, 93 
Wine whey, for the sick, 204 
Wines, 179 ; receipts for making differeni 

kinds of, 181 ef seq. ; remarks on, 181 
Woodcocks, cooking of, 81 
Woollen, how to preserve from moths 

213 



Yeast, directions for making, 170; 

serving of, 180 
Yeast dumplings, 117 
Yorkshire pudding, receipt for, 117 



pre 



Savill and Edwards, Printers, 4, Chandos-street Covent-garden. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 
OBSERVATIONS FOE THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A 

FAMILY 3 

DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING * 13 

CHOOSING AND DRESSING OF FISH 21 

CHOOSING OF MEATS, AND DIFFERENT MODES OF COOKING 84 

CHOOSING OP POULTRY, GAME, ETC., AND DIFFERENT 

WAYS OF COOKING 70 

SOUPS AND GRAVIES " 83 

SAUCES, ETC 93 

PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY 102 

DRESSING OF VEGETABLES 129 

SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS, ETC 139 

MAKING AND BAKING OF CAKES, BREAD, ETC 169 

HOME BREWERY, WINES, ETC 179 

DAIRY AND POULTRY YARD 186 

COOKERY FOE THE SICK AND FOR THE POOR 197 

VARIOUS USEFUL RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS FOR SER- 
VANTS 208 

BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, ETC. 218 

REMARKS ON DINNERS 226 

GENERAL INDEX 229 



Poetry and the Drama. 97 

AMEEICAN VO^T^— continued. 

LOWELL'S (James Kussell) POETICAL WORKS. 
With a Memoir. 

" His works, be they as widely read as they deserve, should be in every dwelling 
of the land." — Literaru World. 

" His celebrity is daily increasing. Mr. LoweU never writes without thought, or 
publishes for the sake of praise or profit." — Philadelphia Gazette. 

LONGFELLOW'S GOLDEN LEGEND. With Notes. 
Reprinted from the latest American Edition. 

*' Longfellow's works are eminently picturesque, and are distinguished for nicety 
of epithet and elaborate scholarly finish. He has feeling, a rich imagination, and a 
cidtivated taste." — R. W. Grisicold 

WHITTIER'S POETICAL WOPKS. Pveprinted from 
the latest American Edition. 

"His productions are all distinguished for manly vigour of thought and lan- 
guage." — JR. W, Griswold. 

CIGOURNEY'S POETICAL WOPvKS. With Intro- 

^ ductory Preface by F. W. N, Bayley. 

*' Her writings have endeared her name to the lovers of virtue and of song every- 
where ; as a writer of verse she has high moral aims ; and though this circumstance, 
with ordinary talent, might entitle her to consideration, she can add the eiiectual 
claim of Mterary excellence. The poetry is characterized by ease, tenderness, a 
chastened fancy, and a delicate susceptibility of whatever is beautiful in nature or 
charnung in truth." — Chambers. 

"IT^ILLIS'S POETICAL WORKS. Reprinted from the 
» ' last revised American Edition, in which the author has embodied 
poems never before published. 

" The poetry of Mr. WiHis is distinguished for exquisite finish and melody ; his lan- 
guage is pure, varied, and rich; his imagination brilliant; and his wit of the finest 
description." — R. W. Grisicold. 

RYANT'S POETICAL WORKS. With Life by 
Gkiswold, and Preface by F. W. N. Bayley, Esq. 

HOLMES'S POETICAL WORKS. With an Introduc- 
tion by A. E. ScoBLE, Esq. 

Holmes is the Thomas Hood of America. His poetry is an unceasing Jlow of humour 
auAgood nature. 

UNIFORM WITH THE AMERICAN POETS IX SIZE, PRICE, 
AND BINDING. 

riAMPBELL'S PLEASURES OF HOPE, Gertrude 

^ OF Wyoming, and Miscellaneous Poems : to which are added, 
COLLIN S"S and GRAY'S POETICAL WORKS. 

*' Had Gray written nothing but his Elegy, high as he stands, I am not sure that 
he would not stand higher— it is the corner-stone of his glory." — Lord Byron. 

T E. CARPENTER'S SONGS ANT> BALLADS. A 

•^ ^ New Edition, revised, with additions. 



B 



9S /a'tandard and Popular Works. 

In royal 24mo, Q,s,. cloth, gilt edges ; or morocco extra, 5s. 

T ONGFELLOW'S HYPERION AND KAVANAGH. 

" These beautiful creations of a poet's vcnndt." —Edinburgh Guardian. 

LONGFELLOW'S OUTRE MER ; or, A Pilgrimage 
beyond the Seas. With Essays. 
%* The popularity of Longfellow in England is all but universal. Of 
his Poems, no less than 40,000 copies have been circulated within the 
last three years. 

POE AND DANA'S POETICAL WORKS. With 
Four Illustrations by Godwin. 

Of Poe's poems, " The Eaven" stands unquestionably in the first place, and is also 
the best poem yet produced in America — if, indeed, it fee not one of the most notable, 
in proportion to its length, to be found in any hterature. There is no grander phrase 
in Milton than this — 

" Hell, rising from a thousand thrones, shall do it reverence !" 
■R-hich concludes "The City of the Sea." 

Price 4d. limp cloth, 144 pages. 

HEARTY STAVES OF HEART MUSIC. Containing 
150 of the most popular Songs of the Day. Selected by the 
Eev. J. Ekskoe Clarke, M.A. 

" AH of the songs are unexceptionable, and we heartily recommend this httle work 
to all who are anxious to cultivate amongst the people a love for the pure and inno- 
cent songs, which may be made a most important element of moral training." — Bath 
Express. 

In 4 vols, fcap 8vo, price IQs. cloth, emblematically gilt. 

SHAKSPEARE'S DRAMATIC WORKS. A New 
Edition, with Notes and Life. Printed in a New Type, from the 
Text of Johnson, Steevens, and Eeed. Edited by W. Hazlitt. 

The same Edition, bound in calf, marbled edges, price 21s. 

The same Edition, half- calf extra, price 18s. 

" This edition has our hearty approval ; its cheapness is not to be excelled; and 
the binding, printing, and paper are unexceptionable. In these days of reprints, 
this Shakspeare is behind no book yet offered to the public." — Morning Herald. 

In 1 vol. fcap Svo, price 2s. 6^- cloth gilt. 

SHAKSPEARE'S DOUBTFUL PLAYS and POEMS. 
Printed uniform with his Dramatic Works (to which it forms a 
Supplemental Volume). 

The Doubtful Plays of Shakspeare are printed uniform vrith Hazhtt's edition of his 
undoubted works, because the mere fact of their having been repeatedly printed as 
his productions, entitles them to popular perpetuation, and because there is a fair 
presumption that, in greater or less proportion, several of them at least actually 
passed through his hands. 



Poetry and the Drama. 



99 



NOW PUBLISHING, IN SHILLING MONTHLY PARTS, 

p OUTLEDGE'S SHAKESPEARE. Edited by Howard 
-tV Staunton, and profusely Illustrated by John Gilbert. 

Vols. I. and H., price 18s. each, handsomely bound, are now ready. 



CONTENTS OF VOL. I. 

The Two Gentlemen of Verona. 
Love's Labour Lost. 
Comedy of Errors. 
Romeo and Juliet. 
Taming of the Shrew. 
King John. 

Midsummer Night's Dream. 
INIerchant of Venice. 
Richard the Second. 
Henry the fourth. Parts I. and II. 
Merry Wives of Windsor. 
Much Ado about Nothing. 
With about 270 Illustrations. 



CONTENTS OF VOL. II. 

All's Well that Ends Well. 

Henry the Fifth. 

As You Like It. 

Pericles. 

Twelfth Night. 

Henry the Sixth. Parts L, II., 

and III. 
Timon of Athens. 
Richard the Third. 
Measure for Measure. 
Henry the Eighth. 
Cymbeline. 

With about 270 Illustrations. 



" A lavish employment of aU the resources of the paper-maker and the typographer 
—multitudinous dra\ving3 of John Gilbert's, executed in his most genial mood-and 
the spirited labour of the most skilful of burms, claims lor this raoderately-pnced 
edition of Shakespeare a place on every drawing-room table. Mr. Staunton combines 
(rare union in an editor and commentator) origmaUty and self-reliance with a candid 
and cathoHc appreciation of the labours of his predecessors Mr. »tauuton s is, 
therefore, the most generaUy useful and available edition of Shakespeare that has yet 
been given to the world."— Critic. , , „ „ ^ oi i_ a 

•'Gilbert's illustrations are copious, original, and full of Shakesperean grace and 
comedy The cleverness and freshness of some of his illustrations are surprismg, 
when we remember how often the same point has been treated before. —Globe. 

" The book is a prodigy of fine printing ; and in the illustrations Gilbert has exerted 

his weU-known powers to the uttermost Mr. Staunton's labour is a great work— 

sreat even in that wliich is otherwise of its own nature httle : the minuteness ot the 
pains taken, the jealous scrupulosity of the care bestowed No one who has this book 
need envy any former, or dread any future, edition of Shakespeare. —Morning Font. 

"Mr Gilbert's iUustrations are, in their own line, immensely in advance ot any- 
thin.^ that has been hitherto attempted for a Pictorial Shakespeare ; as illustrative ot 
the mcidents of the play, and as artistic reahzations of the characters, Mr. Gilbert s 
designs are quite unrivalled. It is e%identthat he has given a careful and genial study 
to the dramatist, and that he has enjoyed his work. In scenes oi broad humour Mi^ 
Gilbert is at least successful; vet, occasionally, we find characters, such as laLstatt 
and Launce, which are perfectly embodied. In the designs, that have more ot a his- 
torical character, Mr. Gilbert is altogether himself-the ciiltivated, conscientious, 
elegant artist. Let any one take only King John, King Henry IV. and \ I, the 
Midsummer Night's Dream, and the Merry Wives ot \\ mdsor, and Mr. Gilbert b 
versatility and cleverness will certainly make a very strong unpression, and drawtorth 
expressions of sui-prise and pleasure.'- —Nonconformist. 

In 1 vol. demy 8vo, price Qs. Qd. cloth gilt. 

SHAKSPEARES DRAMATIC WORKS, with Life 
and Glossarial Notes. Printed in large type, on superior paper. 
Johnson, Steevens, and Reed's Text. With Steel Frontispiece. 

The same Edition, half- morocco, marbled edges, 9s. 

H 2 



100 Stanaard and Popular Woi^ks. 

In 6 vols, crown 8vo, price 21s- cloth extra ; or the 6 vols, in Z, 
price 19s. 6^. cloth extra. 

OHAKSPERE (KNIGHT'S COMPANION) ; including 

^ Life and Studies. With many Illustrations. 

This edition is produced from the desire that has often been expressed of having 
near at hand a Portable Shakspere, containing all needful commentary for the assist- 
ance of the student and the traveller, and to be completed in a few volumes, without 
using a small type, or -without double columns. By a peculiar and novel arrangement 
of the text and" annotations this is efiected. In the marginal notes are compressed 
all the foot notes of the previous editions, and the substance, \vith very shght abridg- 
ment, of all the illustrations. The commentary is presented to the reader in the 
exact place where the information is required ; and to the student, the traveller, and 
all who may desire to possess the Plays of our great Poet and Companion ever at 
hand, this edition, it is expected, wiU be peculiarly valuable. 

In royal 8vo, price IQs. cloih gilt. 

POPE'S COMPLETE POETICAL WOEKS ; including 
his Translations. Edited by H. P. Gary, M.A. With a Biogra- 
phical Notice of the Author. The only complete 1 vol. edition. 

" Pope's works, however often perused, afford fresh delight, and may be considered 
as one of the books best adapted to excite a love of literature." — Warton, 



s 



In 1 vol, crown 8vo, price 7^. 6^- cloth extra. 
HERIDAN KNOWLES'S DRAMATIC WORKS. 

Elegantl}^ printed, with Steel Portrait. Comprising — 



Caius Gracchus. 



Virginius. 
William Tell. 
Alfred the Great, 
Hunchback. 
The Wife. 



Beggar of Bethnal 



Green. 
The Daughter. 
Love Chase. 
Woman's Wit. 
Maid of Mariendorpt. 

" The popularity of Sheridan Knowles's dramatic works has induced the present 
publishers to issue an elegant, and at the same time an extremely cheap, edition of 
<he poet. This edition is now before the pubhc, and there can be no question that it 
will be speedily exhausted by the desire to possess it. Sheridan Knowles is, in fact, 
the most successful dramatist of the present day; and his plays have been, and still 
form, the delight of thousands." — Observer. 



Love. 

John of Procida. 

Old Maids. 

The Ptose of Arragon, 

and 
The Secretary. 



£lBI<I^ZOUS FUBZiICATZONS. 

In 1 vol. fcap 8vo, price 2s. 6cl. cloth lettered. 

ELECTIONS FROM the WRITINGS of FENELON. 

With a Memoir of his Life. A New Edition, containing Letters 
addressed to Madame de Maintenon, now first published. 

These writings of Fenelon, so full of instruction and gentle rebuke, of the ten- 
derest love to man and the holiest love to God, should be accessible to all who can 
read the English language. 



s 



Religiom Publwations. 101 



In fcap 8vo, price Is. Qd. cloth lettered. 
TNFIDELTTY : its Cause and Cure. By Dr. Nelson. 

The author of this striking work (nearly 100,000 copies have been circulated) was 
eminent as an intelligent intldel physician, and then as an able minister of Cbrist. 
It has been well said of this work, that, " after all the learned, eloquent, and argu- 
mentative treatises which have been published on different branches of the Christian 
endences, something was still needed to excite curiosity, awaken attention, and stimu- 
late inquiry : something that would present striking facts to arrest the attention of 
the indifferent and the sceptical." Facts drawn from histor}', science, and observa- 
tion, are here placed in a strong and often startling light; and there is an earnestness, 
a personahty, a warm life-blood of reahty running through the whole, which must 
strike every one on reading it. 

In 1 vol. post Svo, price 3s. 6cl. cloth gilt. 

BUCHANAN'S CHRISTIAN RESEARCHES IN 
INDIA : with the Rise, Suspension, and Probable Future of 
England's Eule ?„s a Christian Power in India. Edited by the Rev. 
W, H. For, M.A., forinerly Missionary Chaplain of Gwalior. With 
Illustrations. 

" Some well-engraved woodcuts illustrate the volume, and greatly assist the perusal. 
As a work of its class, this edition of • Buchanan's Christian Kesearches' must com- 
mand considerable attention, from the earnestness of the editor, from the beauty of 
the production, and from its great cheapness.'' — Observer. 

In small 4to, pi'ice 7s- 6<1. cloth extra. 
TNDEX SERMONUM. A Register for Sermons, to be 
J- entered as written : by the regular use of which they will arrange 
themselves according to the Ecclesiastical Year, Special Occasions, 
Subjects, Texts, &c., so as to be easily referred to. By the Rev. 
Edward Harland, M.A., Author of *'A Church Psalter and 
Hymnal." 

"We may express our thanks to Mr. Harland for the great labour he has incurred 
for the benefit of his brethren ; and we think the latter will find it much to their 
advantage to avad themselves of what is tJius furnished for them in so admirable a 
form." — Clerical Journal. 

In royal 24mo, price ^(i.. limp cloth. 

PRAYERS FOrVoUNC PERSONS. Selected almost 
exclusively from a volume by the Rev. Benjamin Jenks. With 
an Introduction by the Hon. and Right Rev. the Bishop of Carlisle. 

In 1 vol. price 4s. 6^- cloth lettered. 

CALMET'S BIBLICAL DICTIONARY. Abridged, 
Modernized, and re-Edited, according to the most recent Biblical 
researches, by the Rev. T. A. Buckley, M.A. The volume contains 
upwards of 700 pages, and is printed in a new, beautiful, and clear 
Type. 

The present work is not designed to compete with the many learned and volu- 
minous Cyclopffidias, and other books of reference, already in circulation, but sim.ply 
to place in the hands of the great mass of the people some sounder and more exten- 
sive information than the cheap Biblical Dictionaries hitherto published could 
furnish. The advantage of making an established book the groundwork of such a 
publication, at the same time modernizing its whole character, is too obvious to need 
discussion. 



102 Standard and Popular Worhs. 

In ] vol, price 4s. 6d. cloth lettered. 

LIFE OF CHPvIST, OUPv GREAT EXEMPLAR. By 
Jeremy Taylor. Being the History of the Life and Death of 
Our Saviour Jesus Christ. Revised and Edited, with a Life of the 
Author, by the Rev. T. A. Buckley, M.A. With a Portrait. 
750 pages. 

" I am acquainted with no work of Taylor's (I may say with no work of any other 
author) in which more practical wisdom may be found, a greater knowledge of the 
human heart, and a more dexterous application, not only of the solemn truths of 
Chi-istianity, but of even the least imi>ortant circumstances related in the Life of Our 
Saviour, in the development of sound principles of action, and to the correction and 
guidance of our daily conduct." — Extract from Life by Bishop Heher. 

" When the name of Jeremy Taylor is no longer remembered with reverence, 
genius wiU become a mockery, and virtue an empty shade." — Razlitt. 

In square 8vo, price 5s. cloth, gilt edges. 

PICTORIAL LIFE OF OUR SAVIOUR. By Dr. 
KiTTO. With 250 Illustrations. 

To meet the demand, which is happily increasing, for subjects connected with 
Sacred History, this work of sterhng\alue has been produced by one of our most 
learned students of Bible Literature. The " Life of our Saviour" is drawn from a 
Close examination and comparison of the Four Gospels, and elucidated by an accu- 
rate and extensive knowledge, on the part of Dr. Kitto, of all those habits and 
customs of the East which are so necessary to be understood in order fully to 
comprehend the Scripture narrative. It is illustrated with a large number of 
beautiful engravings, copied by our first artists from the most celebrated productions 
of antiquity. 

In 1 vol. fcap Svo, price 2s.. cloth lettered ; or 2s. 6^. cloth, gilt edges. 

FAMILY PICTURES FROJM THE BIBLE. Edited 
by Dr. Gumming. With an Introduction. 

" This work is a gallery of portraits of Scripture families — a studio full of groups 
and models — worthy of our study, because they are casts from perfect originals ; 
where flaws and defects exist in anj^ family, they are clearly marked for our avoid- 
ance; where excellency and beauty are, these are presented clear and voluminous; 
and, at the same time, the elements that compose and generate them are indicated 
with unmistakeable precision." — Extract from Dr. Cumming's Freface. 

In 1 vol. fcap Svo, price 2s« cloth lettered ; or 2s. 6<1- cloth, gilt edges. 

CHEEVER'S (Dr.) MEMORIALS OF THE LIFE 
AND TRIALS OF A YOUTHFUL CHRISTIAN in pursuit 
of Health, as developed in the Biography of Nathaniel Cheever. 

"The subject of this memoir died at sea while in pursuit of health. There is a 
valuable account of a medical examination at Cuba, but the book is mainly occupied 
with religious journals and experiences. The well-known names of the editors certify 
and distinguish its claims upon the community." — Liter wry World, 

lu roya,! 32mo, price Is. each, cloth extra. 

BUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. The Three 
Parts. With Explanatory Notes by the Rev. J. Newtox, Dr. 
Bradford, Dr. Hawkek, and others. Printed with a New Type. 
The same Edition, fancy boards, IQd. 



Religious Publications. 103 

In 1 vol. medium 8vo, price gs. cloth lettered. 
T7"ITT0'S (Dr.) BIBLE HISTORY OF THE HOLY 

■^^ LAND, Being an Account of the Physical Geography, Natural 
History, Arts, and Antiquities of the Holy Land. With Maps and 
numerous Illustrations. 

The object of this work is to furnish a trustworthy analysis of the interesting 
results of Eastern travel. The facilities of modem communication have wonderfully 
increased our desire to learn more of these lands, which possess the deepest interest 
for aU Christian readers. 

In crown 8vo, price 2s. 6^. cloth gilt. 

"DUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. Witli Notes 
-*-^ by George Offer, and Illustrations by John Gilbert. 

This new edition is well printedin a large I what the author himself published. Most 
type, illustrated with large wood en- | of the Xotes are extracted from his other 
gravings by John Gilbert, and numerous | works, and throw a light upon those few 
smaller ones, from authentic sketches \ passages which have proved ditficult to 
made expressly for this work. Venera- j many persons. This volume also contains 
tion for the memory of Bunyan has also | the only list of Buuyan's Works arranged 
stimulated the Editor's most anxious 1 in chronological order as they were pub- 
care to make this edition a fac-simile of lished. 



In royal 32mo, price Is. cloth lettered. 

BOGATZSKY'S GOLDEN TREASURY EOR THE 
CHILDREN OF GOD. Reprinted from the best translated 
edition. In a New Type. 

The same Edition, fancy boards, 9d. 

In these editions due regard has been observed to give the largest type that could 
possibly be used, and make the books much superior to any others of the same size 
that have been previously pubhshed. 

In fcap 8vo, price Is. cloth extra. 

THE FAMILY LITURGY. CompHed from tlie Bible, 
the Book of Common Prayer, and other sources ; and so arranged 
as to promote United Family Worship ; with Prayers and Thanksgiv- 
ings for Special Occasions. By Edward Carr, LL.D., St. Helen's, 
Lancashire. 

This is a very nicely printed volume, in large type, and a desideratum long wanted 
for private use in families. 

In fcap 8vo, price Is. QiS.. cloth lettered, 

BUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. With Notes 
by Mason. A newly printed Edition, with Illustrations. 



104: 



Standard and Popular ^Yorlc8. 



In 18 vols, super-royal 16mo, price £2 7s- 6d' cloth extra. 

BARNES' (The Rev. Albert) COMPLETE COMMEN- 
TARY on the OLD and NEW TESTAMENT (as far as published). 
With Notes, Explanatory and Practical, designed for the Heads of 
Eaniilies, Students, Bible Classes, and Sunday Schools. Edited and 
carefully Revised by the Rev. John Gumming, D.D., Minister of the 
Scotch Church, Crown Court, London. 

Or any of CuMAriNG s Edition of Baenes' Notes may be had 
in Single Vols., as follows, viz. ; 



The Notes on the Gospels of Matthew and Mark, 1 vol. 
Luke and John, 1 vol. 



Acts of the Apostles, 1 vol. 

Romans, 1 vol. ...... 

First Corinthians, 1 vol 

Second Corinthians and Galatians, 1 vol. . 
Ephesians, Philippians, and Colossians 
Thessalonians, Timothy, Titus, &c., 1 vol. . 
Hebrews, 1 vol. ..... 

James, Peter, John, and Jude, 1 vol. 

Revelations 

Book of Isaiah, 3 vols, without abridgment 
Book of Job, in 2 vols. .... 
Book of Daniel, 2 vols 



£0 
















Or tlie same is issued in Douhle Vols., as follows, i 

The Four Gospels, in 1 vol. containing 900 pa 

Acts and Romans, in 1 vol. ,, 736 

Corinthians and Galatians, in 1 vol, ,, 7SG 

Ephesians to Philemon, in 1 vol. „ 62(3 

Hebrews and General Epistles^ in 1 vol. ,, 7S8 

The Revelations, in 1 vol. ,, 512 

The Book of Isaiah, in 3 vols. ,, 1220 

The Book of Jol), in 1 vol. ,, 788 

The Book of Daniel, in 1 vol. ,, 5GS 

Or the Complete Commentary in Double Volumes 

\* Barnes' Notes, Dr. Cumming's Edition, is also kept in Stock, 
bound in half-calf or calf extra, at the additional cost of the binding. 

In ordering any of the above, it is particularly necessary to specify 
♦' Dr. Cumming's Edition." 



In 1 vol. price 2^- 6<1' cloth lettei-ed. 

BARNES' (Albert) PRACTICAL SERMONS. De- 
signed for Congregations and Families. Copyright Volume. Pub- 
lished uniform with Baknes' Commentary. (Single Volumes.) 

The discourses in this volume are wholly practical. They were intended to be such 
as would be adapted to impress on the mind the importance and necessity of personal 
religion, and it is hoped good may be done by their perusal. 



Religious Publications. 105 

In fcap 8vo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

HAWKEE'S (Dr.) MORNING PORTION. The Poor 
Man's Morning Portion, being a Selection of a Verse of Scripture, 
with Short Observations for every Day in the Year. A New Edition. 

In fcap Svo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

HAWKER'S (Dr.) EVENING PORTION. The Poor 
Man's Evening Portion, being a Selection of a Verse of Scripture, 
with Short Observations for every day in the Year. A New Edition. 

In 1 vol. fcap Svo, price 3s. 6^- cloth lettered. 

HAWKER'S (Dr.) DAILY PORTION. Being the 
above two works bound together. 

In 1 vol. price 2s. cloth gilt. 

LAW'S SERIOUS CALL. With an Advertisement by 
Archdeacon Allen. 

" Perhaps no book more visibly and forcibly illustrates the folly of worldliness and 
the contrivances of self-deceit. In reading the chapter on ' Making a Wise Religious 
Use of our Estates,' who can escape the conclusion, that he who does not spend his 
money in doing good to others, must spend it to the hurt of himself ? acting hke on« 
who should refuse to give that which would prove a cordial to a sick friend, though 
he could not drink it himself without inilaming his blood." — Archdeacon Allen. 

In fcap Svo, price 2^. 6 J- cloth lettered. 

HILL'S (ROWLAND) VILLAGE DIALOGUES. An 
entire New Edition. Four Parts. In One Volume. 

In fcap Svo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

ELIJAH THE TISHEITE. Translated from the Ger- 
man of Dr. F. W. Krummacher. A New Edition, with Portrait 
of the Author. 

In fcap Svo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

WATTS' (Dr.) W^ORLD TO COME ; OR, THE JOYS 
AND SORROWS OF DEPARTED SOULS AT DEATH, 
AND THE GLORY OR TERROR OF THE RESURRECTION. 
With an Essay towards the Proof of a Separate State of Souls after 
Death. 

In fcap Svo, price 3s. cloth lettered. 

ROMAINE'S LIFE, WALK, AND TRIUMPH OF 
FAITH. A New Edition, with a Life of the Author, and a 
Preface by the Rev. J. B. Owen, Minister of St. John's, Bedford-row, 



106 Standard and Pojmlar WorL^. 



In fcap 8vo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

BOGATZSKY'S GOLDEN TREASURY FOR THE 
CHILDREN or GOD ; consisting of Devotional and Practical 
Observations for every Day in the Year. A New Edition, printed in 
Large Type. 

In fcap 8vo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

TENKS' PRAYERS AND OFFICES OF DEVOTION 
tl FOR FAMILIES AND FOR PARTICULAR PERSONS ON 
MOST OCCASIONS. A New Edition. By the Rev. Chakles 
Simeon. With a Preface by the Rev. Albert Baknes. 

In fcap 8vo, price 2s. cloth lettered. 

DODDRIDGE'S RISE AND PROGRESS OF RELI- 
GION IN THE SOUL. A New Edition. Printed in a' large 
type, on good paper. 

" Is a body of practical divinity and Christian experience, that has never been sur- 
passed by any work of the same nature." — Cleveland. 

"And first, as a universal storehouse, I recommend 'Doddridge's Lectures' as 
necessary in the conduct of theological pursuits." — Bishop of Durham's Charge. 



In square 16mo, price Is. with cloth cover. 

THE HUMILIATION AND EXALTATION OF 
OUR REDEEMER. In Thirty-two Prmts representing the 
original wood-blocks of Albert Durer. 

I hope that an impression of the thirty-tveo wood-blocks of Albert Durer, at the 
cost of one shilling, may bring thousands under the influence of one of the greatest 
men of his time— the friend of Erasmus and Melancthon speaking to us across three 
centuries through the universal language of his art. 



In square 16mo, price 2^. sewed. 

THE GOSPEL FOR THE UNLEARNED. In Twenty- 
four Prints representing the original w^ood-blocks of Albert 
Durer. Edited by the Venerable Archdeacon Allen. 



In royal 32mo, price 2d. with sewed wrapper. 

HOW TO DO GOOD ; OR, THE HISTORY OF A 
SUNDAY SCHOOL. 

An elegantly printed and excellent little book for general cii-culation. 



Religious Piiblications. 107 



HYMN BOOKS FOR UNIVERSAL CIRCULATION. 

%.* A liberal allowance is made to all Ministers using 100 copies and 
upwards at one time. 

nnHE Publishers desire to call the attention of all Ministers 
-*- and Sunday School Teachers to the \inder-mentioned list of their 
Cheap Hymn Books. They have been expressly published at a frac- 
tional profit, in order to obtain a universal circulation. 

In royal 32mo, with covers, Id. ; or in cloth limp, 2^- each. 

1. ARCHDEACON ALLEN'S PENNY HYMN 

BOOK. 

2. ARCHDEACON ALLEN'S CHURCH HYMN 
BOOK. 

3. GRAHAM'S (Rev. J.) CHILDREN'S SCHOOL 
HYMN BOOK. 

Price Three Halfpence, sewed ; or in cloth, Five Halfpence. 

4. ARCHDEACON ALLEN'S CHURCH HYMN 

BOOK, with the Metrical Psalms for Congi-egational Use. 

In the space of two years, more than half a million of the above have 
been disposed of, spreading far and wide a universal psalmody, 

UNDER THE SAXCTION OF THE BISHOP OF CARLISLE. 

In royal 24mo, price ^d., limp cloth ; or Qd.., cloth boards ; 
and 8d., roan. 

THE PEOPLE'S CHURCH HYMN BOOK. Under 
the Sanction of the Eight Hon. and Eight Eev, the LoRD BiSHOP 
OF Caelisle. 

The peculiar and combined features of this Hymn Book are as 
follows : — 

1st. This collection is low-priced, ia order to meet the wants of the poorest. 

2nd. It consists of such a selection from the Psalms as are best suited for Christian 
worship. 

3rd. The Psalms and HjTnns have been purposely selected from those old and 
familiar favourites, scattered through various Collections, which have long delighted 
the Church of Christ. 

4th. The Chief Festivals and Occasional Services of the Church of England have 
been arranged under their respective heads, so as to afford iostant facihty of 
reference. 

5th. For the same purpose of easy reference, the Miscellaneous Hymns are alpha- 
betically arranged. 

An Edition of the above is also printed ia large type, and strongly 
bound in cloth, price Is. 



108 Standard and PojndarWorh. 

HAKLIND'S (Rev. E.) CHURCH PSALTER AND HYMNAL. 

In royal 24mo, price 4^., cloth limp ; in cloth boards, 6^- ; or in roan, 
gilt edges, 8<i' 

A CHURCH PSALTER and HY]\mAL, containing 
260 Psalms and Hj'mns, edited and adapted for general use, with, 
the approval of the Bishop of Lichfield, hy the Eev, Edward Harland, 
M.A. It is printed in a clear type, on good paper, and contains an 
Index of Psalms and Hymns for particular occasions, and an arrange- 
ment for use on each Sunday throughout the Year. 

\* An Edition of the above is also printed in large type, and strongly 
bound in cloth, price One Shilling. 

" This work, besides being sound, spiritual, devotional, and really a Church Boole, 
has been published from a desire that in the various churches of England and the 
colonies a more general uniformity of jDsalms and hymns may be pubhcly used ; and 
it is published as cheaply as possible, that the poor as well as the rich may be able to 
join in the sacred melodies." — Extract from Preface. 

HARRISON'S (Rev. "WILLIAM) COMMON PSALTER. 

In royal 24mo, price 4d., cloth limp ; or in cloth boards, QA. ; or in 
roan, gilt edges, 8^. 

A COMMON PSALTER, Compiled and Edited by tlie 
Eev. William Haeeison. The 26th Thousand. With com- 
plete Indexes. 

" By means of the present work, published as it is for the small sum of fourpence, 
the poor can be supplied with a manual of psahnody suitable for public, social, and 
pi-ivate use. The selection has been carefully made with the view of combining, as 
far as possible, simplicity and devotion with poetry, so as to be generally intelligible 
to the lowest, and yet not to oUend against a cultivated taste. Among the one 
hundred and iifty psalms, and the one hundred and sixty hymns, contained in this 
little volume, will be found all the most loved and familiar songs in which the devout 
suirits of our Evangelical Church have poured out their aspirations before God." — 
the Record. 

A TUNE-BOOK FOR UNIVERSAL CIRCULATION. 

In square 16mo, price 4<1m cloth limp. 

A CHURCH AND HOME TUNE-BOOK. Edited 
-^ and Arranged by Charles H, Purday. Adapted to ''Arch- 
deacon Allen's Hymn Books," "Harland's Church Psalter and 
Hymnal," and "Harrison's Common Psalter." 

This is the cheapest "Psalm Tune Book" ever published, containing as it does 
sixty-seven of our best and most popular Psalm Tunes, arranged in short score for 
four voices. The Harmonies, which have all lieen carefully revised by the compiler, 
are at once simple, bold, and effective; and the tunes are \\Titteu in such keys as to 
bring them within the compass of every voice. 

In fcap 8vo, price 2s- 6^. cloth lettered. 

FOXES BOOK OF MARTYRS, from the Earliest 
Period of the Christian Church ; abridged from Milner's large 
Edition, forming a volume of 512 pages. With an Illustration. 

" A tale of what Rome once hath seen, — of what Rome may yet see."— 
2Iacaulaij^ 



Religious Publications. 109 

In 1 vol. demy Svo, price 5s. cloth lettered. 

MASON'S SPIRITUAL TREASURY FOR THE 
CHILDREN OF GOD. Consisting of a Meditation for every 
Morning and every Evening in the year. Becommended by Romaine. 

In 1 vol. crown Svo, price 3s- 6^« cloth extra. 

jHOBBIN'S DESCRIPTIVE TESTAMENT. Containing 
^^ the authorized Translation of the New Testament of our Lord and 
Saviour Jesus Christ. With Notes, explanatory of the Kites, Customs, 
Sects, Phraseology, Topography, and Geography, referred to in this 
portion of the Sacred Pages, especially designed for Schools and Fami- 
lies. By Ingram Cobbin, M.A. Illustrated with numerous Engrav- 
ings and Maps. 

WATTS' PSALMS, HYMNS, AND SPIRITUAL 
SONGS. With Introductory Preface, Index of Subjects, Table 
of the first line of each Verse, and Scripture Illustrated. 

In ISmo, long primer, 703 pages. 

No. s. d. 

1 In cloth neat, with cut edges . , . .26 

2 roan, embossed . . . .30 

S • roan, embossed, gilt edges . .36 

Demy 32mo, thick or thin paper. 
5 • on stout paper, 610 pages, cloth . 1 



9 



6 roan, sprinkled edges . . .1 

7 gilt edges 16 

Demy 4Smo, superfine thin hard paper, clear type. 

13 Watts' Psalms, &c., in cloth, neat, 620 pp. . .08 

l-i black sheep, cut edges . .09 

15 roan . . . . . . 10 

16 roan, gilt edges . . , .10 

These Editions, now passed by Messrs. Ward and Co. to our hands, 
are oflfered at a cheaper rate than those now generally on sale, notwith- 
standing the many more pages that the larger type takes up — a con- 
sideration of great value to the purchaser. Strong binding and first-rate 
paper has been used, and they are the best now in use. 

In 18mo, price Is. 6d. cloth lettered. 

ABBOTT'S YOUNG CHRISTIAN. Edited and Revised 
by the Eev. J. W. Cunningham, M.A. 



110 Standard and Popidar Works. 

In 32mo, cloth lettered, price Is. Qdt. ; roan embossed, 2s. ; morocco, 
3s- 6d. ; morocco elegant, 4s. 

THE COMMUNICANT'S SPIRITUAL COMPA- 
NION FOR THE LORD'S SUPPER. By the Rev. T. 
Haweis, LL.D. With Meditations, Helps for Prayer, Communion 
Service, and Preface, by the Rev. Hugh White. New Edition. 

JACOB ABBOTT'S BOOKS— COMPLETE EDITIONS. 
In 18mo, price Is. 6^. cloth lettered. 

nORNEE STONE. Edited by the Rev. Henry Blunt. 

In 18mo, price Is. cloth lettered. 
X ITTLE PHILOSOPHER. Eor Scliools and Families. 

In ISmo, price Is. cloth lettered. 
nniLD AT HOME. With Frontispiece. 



^ 



In 18mo, price Is. cloth lettered. 
rAY TO DO GOOD. With Frontispiece. 



Cheajy Series. 



Ill 



" Books to please the million must not only be good, but attractive; not simply 
strengthen the constitution, but please, if not tickle and excite, the palate. When 
the masses go to EoutledCte's they are at least sure of being gratified and pleased; 
they have still to acqxiixe the same conviction in other quarters." 

The Times, Dec. 15, 1853. 



EOUTLEDGE'S CHEAP SEEIES. 

" Books you may hold in your hand are the most useful, after all." — Dr. Johnson, 
" This valuable series now contains upwards of 130 volumes. They form a com- 
plete hbrary of instructive, useful, and entertaining knowledge. Each work is sold 
separately, at prices varying from One to Two ShiUiugs, and many of them are 
illustrated. They are admirably adapted for all Mechanics' Institutes, Soldiers' and 
Sailors' Libraries, or Village Book Clubs, and for all kinds of popular instruction. 
Tliey embrace the Works of our best authors in the various departments of Biography, 
History, Fiction, &c. ; and books that formerly cost pounds may now be obtained for 

" ]S'o family ought to be without this Library, as it furnishes the readiest resources 
for that education which ought to accompany or succeed that of the boarding-school 
or academy, and is infinitely more conducive than either to the cultivation of th» 
intellect and the weU-being of society." 

Price Is. each in fancy boards, except where specified. 

CO^TTENTS OF THE SERIES — VIZ. : 

Palmyra (The Fall of). By 

the Eev. Wm, Ware. 
Rome & the Early Christians^ 

By W. Ware. 
Gold Colonies of Australia. 

By G. B. Eai-p. 
New Zealand. By G. B. EaqD. 
What we did in Australia. 

Edited by G. B. Earp, 
Party Fight, and other Tales 

(Is. 6d.). By W. Carleton. 
Poor Scholar, and other Tales 

(Is. 6d.). By W. Carleton. 
Phelim 0' Toole's Courtship 

(Is. 6d.). By W. Carleton. 
Bundle of Crowquills. By 

Alfred Crowquill. 
Christmas Day, and How it 

was Spent. By Le Ros. 
The "Hobhs" and the 

"Dohbs;" or the Rival 

Houses(ls.6d.). By Crayon. 
Two Years before the Mast 

(Is. 6d.). Dy Dana. 
Representative Men. By R. 

W. Emerson. 
Hyperion. By Longfellow. 



4. 


The Wide, Wide World (2s.) 
By Miss Wetherell. 


21. 


0. 


Nelson (Life of). By James 
Allen. 


22. 


6. 


Wellington (Life of). By 
Charles MacFarlane. 


23. 


7. 


White Slave. By Hildreth. 


24. 


8. 


Uncle Tom's Cabin. By Mrs. 

iStowe. 


25. 


10. 


Vicar of Wakefield, and Poems 
By Oliver Goldsmith. 


27. 


12. 


Sir Robert Peel : His Life and 
Times. 


29. 


13. 


The Arctic Regions (Is. 6d.). 
By P. L. Simmonds. 


30. 


14. 


Queechy (2s.). By Miss 
AVetherell. 


31. 


16. 


Christopher Tadpole (2s. ) . By 
Albert Smith. 


32. 


17. 


Valentine Vox (2s.). By Henry 
Cockton. 


33. 


19. 


India. With Illustrations. 






(Is. Gd.). By J. H. Stoc- 


34. 




queler. 




20. 


Wild Sports and Adventures 
(Is. 6d.). By W. H. Max- 


35. 




well. 


39. 



113 Stan dard an d Popid 


ir Worls. 


40. 


Keminisceuces of a Retired 


75. 


The Pathfinder (Is. 6d.). By 




Physician. 




J. F. Cooper. 


41. 


Sir Eoland Ashton (2s.). By 


76. 


The Bravo (Is. 6d.). By J. F. 




Lady Long. 




Cooper. 


42. 


Oliver Goldsmith's Life. By 


77. 


Salmagundi. By Washing- 




Wasliington Irving. 




ton Irving. 


41. 


Lives of the Successors of 


79. 


Captain Canot (Is. 6d.), By 




Mahomet. By Washington 




E. Mayer. 




Irving. 


80. 


Homeward Bound (Is. 6d.). 


46. 


Nelson on Infidelity. Edited 




By J. F. Cooper. 




by the Rev. G. A. Eogers. 


81. 


The Headsman (Is. 6d.). By 


47. 


Russia as it is. By J. E, 




J. F. Cooper. 




Morell. 


82, 


S3. History of the Conquest of 


49. 


The Lamplighter {Is. 6d.). 




Mexico (2 vols. 4s.). By 




By Miss Cummins. 




W. H. Prescott. 


50. 


Turkey : Past and Present. 


84. 


Knickerbocker's History of 




By J. R. Morell. 




New York. ByV»^ashington 


5Q. 


Tales, comprising The Bank- 




Irving. 




ing House, We're all Low 


^5, 


86. The History of the Con- 




People There, Eleanor Tra- 




quest of Peru (2 vols. 4s.). 




vis, and The Freethinker 




By W. H. Prescott. 




(Is. 6d.). By S. Phillips, 


87. 


The Waterwitch (Is. 6d.). By 




Author of ''Essays from 




J. F. Cooper. 




The Times:' 


88. 


The Two Admirals (Is. 6d.). 


51. 


The Roving Englishman. 




By J. F. Cooper. 


63. 


Hochelaga (Is. Gd.). Edited 


89. 


Miles Wallingford; or, Afloat 




by Eliot Warburton. 




and Ashore (Is. 6d.). By 


«4. 


Kaloolah ; or, African Ad- 




J. F. Cooper. 




ventures. (Is 6d.). By 


90. 


The Mountaineer. By Mayo. 




]Mayo. 


92. 


Burmah and the Burmese. By 


65. 


Sunny Memories of Foreign 




K. H. E. Mackenzie. 




Lands (Is. 6d.). By Mrs. 


93. 


Acting Charades. By Anne 




Stowe. 




Bowman. 


67. 


The Sea Lions (Is. 6d.) By 


94. 


YoungFrank'sHolidays. With 




J. E. Cooper. 




Illustrations. By Stirling 


68. 


The Borderers; or, The Heath- 




Coyne. 




cotes (Is. 6d.). By J. F. 


95. 


The War ; or, Voices from the 




Cooper. 




Ranks. 


69. 


The Lofty and the Lowly 


96. 


The Pleasures, Objects, and 




(Is.Gd.). ByM.J.McIntosb. 




Advantages of Literature. 


70. 


Shilling Cookery for the 




By the Rev. R. A. Willmott. 




People. By A. Soyer. 


97. 


Biographical and Critical 


71, 


72. The History of the Reign 




Essays (2s.). By W. H. 




of Ferdinand and Isabella 




Prescott. 




(2 vols. 4s.). By W. H. 


98. 


Educational Lectures (Is. 6d.). 




Prescott. 




Delivered at St. Martin's 


73. 


The Deerslayer (Is. 6d.). By 




Hall. 




J. F. Cooper. 


99 


The Prairie (Is. 6d.). ByJ.F. 


74 


Oak Openings; or, the Bee- 




Cooper. 




Hunter (Is. 6d.). By J. F. 


100. Turkey (2s.). BytheRoving 




Cooper. 




Englishman. 



Routledges Popular Libraries. 



113 



i 

104. 

105. 

108. 

109. 

110. 
113. 

114. 

115. 

116. 

117. 

118. 
119. 

120. 

121. 

122. 

123. 

124. 
125. 

126. 
127. 

128. 

129. 
130, 



Transatlantic "Wanderings. 132. 

By Captain Oldmixon. { 

Ruth Hall. By Fanny Fern. \ 
The Crimea and Odessa. By 134. 

C. W. Koch. 135. 

Two French Artists in Spain. 

By Charle? MacFavlane. 136. 

Wolfert*s Roost, and other 

Tales. By Yv^ashington 137. 

Irving. 
America and the Americans 138. 

(Is. 6d.). By W. E. Baxter, 

Esq. 139. 

The Red Rover (Is. 6d.). By 140. 

J. F. Cooper. 
IsraelPotter: HisFiftyYears ! 141. 

of Exile. By Herman Mel- I 

ville. i 142. 

The Great Highway (2s.). ! 143. 

By. S. W. FuUom. ! 

Eve' Effingham (Is. 6d.). By , 144. 

J. F. Cooper. 
My Brother's Keeper. By i 145. 

Miss Wetherell. 
Female Life among the Mor- 146. 

mons. 147. 

The Watchman (Is. 6d.). 
The Hidden Path. By M. 148. 

Harland. i 

Sebastopol : the Story of its 149. 

Fall. By G. R.Emerson. 
The Song of Hiawatha. (Is. 150. 

6d.) By Longfellow. 
Robinson ' Crusoe (Is. 6d.). 151. 

By Daniel Defoe. 
Clement Lorimer (Is. 6d.). 152. 

By Angus B. Reach. 
Rose Clark. By Fanny Fern. 153. 
Pirates of the Mississippi 

(Is. 6d.). By Gerstaecker. 
Afloat and Ashore (Is. 6d.). 154. 
Satanstoe (Is. 6d.). By J. F. 

Cooper. 155. 

Wyandotte; or, the Hutted 

Knoll (Is. 6d.). ByJ. F. 156. 

Cooper. 
Heidenmauer (Is. 6d.). By 157. 

J. F. Cooper. 
131. History of Philip the 158. 

Second of Spain (2 vols. 4s.). 

By W. H. Prescott. 



The Solitary Hunter. With 

Plates (Is. 6d.). By Pal- 

liser. 
Ennui. By Miss Edgeworth . 
Absentee. By Miss Edge- 
worth. 
Pottleton Legacy (2s.). By 

Albert Smith. 
Whom to Marry (Is. 6d.). 

By Henry Mayhew. 
Manoeuvring. ByMissEdge- 

woi'th. 
Vivian. By INIiss Edgeworth. 
Light andDarkness (ls.6d.). 

By Mi's. Crowe. 
Austrian Dungeons in Italy. 

By F. Orsini. 
King Dobbs. By J. Hannay. 
Wild Sports in the Far West 

(Is. 6d.). By Gerstaecker. 
BraftsforAcceptance(ls.6d.). 

By Raymond. 
Twenty Years After (2s.). 

By A. Dumas. 
English Traits. By Emerson. 
Our Miscellany. Edited by 

Yates and Brough. 
Hills oftheShatemuc (Is. 6d.) 

By ]\Iiss Warner. 
First Lieutenant's Story (2s.) 

By Lady C. Long. 
Marguerite de Valois (2s.). 

By A, Dumas. 
Haunted House. By Ger- 
staecker. 
Violet; or, Found at Last 

(Is. 6d.). ByM'Intosh. 
Sam Slick in Texas. By the 

Author of "A Stray 

Yankee." 
Home and the World (ls.6d.). 

By Mrs. Rives. 
Shakespeare not an Impostor. 

By an English Critic. 
Mark's Reef (Is. 6d.). By 

J. F. Cooper. 
Precaution (Is. 6d.). By J. 

F. Cooper. 
Private Life of an Eastern 

King (2s.). By W 

Knighton. 



114 



Standard and Popular Works. 



159. 
160. 
161. 
162, 
164. 
165. 

166. 

167. 
168. 

169. 
170. 

171. 
1'2. 

173. 

174. 

175 

176 

177 
178 



Flood and Field (Is. 6d.). 

By Maxwell. 
Charles the Fifth, vol. 1 (2.s.). 

By Prescott. 
Charles the Fifth, vol. 2 (2s.). 

By Prescott. 
163. Vicomtede Bragelonne (2 

vols. 5s.). By Alex. Dumas. 
Four Phases of Love. Trans- 
lated by G-. H. Kingsley. 
The Garies (Is. 6d.). ByF. 
A. AVebb. With a Preface 
by Mrs. Stowe. 
Lucky Penny (2s.) . By Mrs. 

S. C. Hall. 
Moss Side. By M. Harland. 
Mabel Vauglian (Is. 6d.). 
By the Author of "The 
Lamplighter." 
Mutiny in India, to the 
Taking ofLucknow (Is. 6d.). 
Parthenia; or, the Last Days 
of Paganism (Is. 6d.). By 
E. B. Lee. 
Acting Proverbs. By Har- 

wood. 
Greatest Plague of Life (with 
12 Illustrations by Cruik- 
shank) (2s.). By the Bro- 
thers Mayhew. 
Two Greatest Scotchmen- 
Burns and Scott— Beauties 
of_with Life (Is. 6d.). By 
the Rev. Jas. White. 
Royal Princesses of Eng- 
land, from the Eeign of 
George I. (2s.). By Mrs. 
Hall. 
. Billets and Bivouacs; or 
Persia and India, 1857 
(ls.'6d.). 
Kansas; or, Squatter Life 
and Border Warfare (2s.). 
By Gladstone. 
Prophet of the Caucasus 

(2s.). By Capt. Spencer. 
Aldershott and all About 
It. Illustrated by Birket 
Foster (2s.). By Mrs. 
Young. 



179. The Sepoy Revolt (2s.). ^ 

Henry Mead. ^p 

180. Wild Flowers : how to See 

and how to Gather them. 
With 171 Illustrations 
(2s.). By Spencer Thom- 
son. 

181. Evangeline. By Longfel- 

low. 

182. Rats (with Anecdotes) (2s?V. 

By Uncle James. 

183. Bridle Roads of Spain (2s.). 

By Cay ley. 

184. Forest Life in Norway and 

Sweden (2s.). By New- 
land. 

185. Tough Yarns (Is. 6d.). By 

the Old Sailor. 

186. Life in a Steamer (Is. 6d.). 

By Sam Slick. 

187. Sam Slick in England; or, 

the Attache (2s.). By Sam 
Slick. 

188. Law and Lawyers. By A. 

Poison. 

189. Marvels of Science (2s.). By 

W. S. Fullom. 

190. British Columbia and Van- 

couver's Island (Is. 6d.). 
By W. C. Hazlitt. 

191. A Lady's Captivity among 

Chinese Pirates. From the 
French. 

192. Patchwork. By Howard 

Paul. 

193. Derby Ministry, The (Is. 6d.). 

By Mark Rochester. 

194. The Courtship of Miles Stan- 

dish and other Poems. By 
H. W. Longfellow. With 
Illustrations. 

195. Eminent Men and Popular 

Books (2s.). (From Tlu 
Times.) 

196. Prescott's Philip the Second 

(2s.). Vol. the Third. 

197. Burns' Poems and Songs 

(2s.). Edited by Willmott. 



The Railway Library. 



115 



^ THS RAZZiWAV liXBRARV. 

^^ (From the Times, Morning Chronicle, Sfc. Sfc.) 

Among the most surprising instances of the immense revolution which has taken 
place of late years in popular literature, are the cheap publications of Messrs. Eout- 
ledge and Co., of Farringdon Street. For several years they have now been issuing 
the "Kailway Library," and have shown an energy and enterprise in many fields of 
literature almost unparalleled in this country. We beHeve the great success which 
they have met with has arisen from the universally-popular character of the works 
they have issued. Their books are never above and never below the standard of 
public taste. 

Eunning our eye <?own the list of works which have already appeared, we are 
surprised most agreeably to find the names of the most distinguished of our living, 
or recently deceased, authors, and these, too, most represented here by their best 
works : — Fenimore Cooper's world-renowned Indian romances and sea-tales — Jane 
Austen's truthful tracings of English country life — Carleton's thrilling Irish stories. 
Miss Sedgwick and Miss M'Intosh give us their sketches of American manners. 
Gleig, Grant, and Captain Curling offer their military adventures for our amuse- 
ment ; and Nathaniel Hawthorne produces his wonderful romances, which, once 
opened, seize upon the attention with a grasp not to be unloosed or shaken off. 
Then come the historical pictures of the incomparable and inexhaustible Dumas, 
"\Y. Harrison Ainsworth, G. P. E.James, the author of " Whitefriars," "Whitehall," 
and " Csesar Borgia." Other weU-knowu names also enrich the hst we have before 
us. I^'or does it lack the names of old favourites, — Miss Porter's best-liked romances, 
and Godwin's finest tales. With the incomparable Bulwer (who, as the author of 
*' PeDiam," " The Caxtous," and *' My Novel," is assigned the highest place among 
modern writers of fiction) are appearing some of the fine sketches of modern fashion- 
able life with which Mrs. Gore has hitherto only delighted the more wealthy and 
privileged of English readers. Mrs. Grey's home pictures — Marryat's sea tales — 
Hannay's best work, " Electra" — and " Eockingham," by a highly-gifted mind, are 
here included, with many others. Looking over this list of books, which some few 
score of shilHugs wiU place upon any person's book-shelves, we cannot but wish 
the " Eailway Librai-y" a continuation of the immense sale which has hitherto 
attended it. 

Price Is. each, in fiuicy boards (except where specified). 

CJONTENTS OF THE SERIES : — 



1. The Pilot : a Tale of the Sea 
(Is. 6d.V By J. F. Cooper. 

S. Last of the Mohicans (Is. 6d.). 
By J. F. Cooper. 

4. The Pioneers (Is. 6d.). By J. 
F. Cooper. 

7. The Spy (Is. 6d.). By J. F. 

Cooper. 

8. Sense and Sensibility. By Jane 

Austen. 
31. Charms and Counter-Charms. 

By Miss M'Intosh. 
12. Lionel Lincoln (Is. 6d.). By 

J. F. Cooper. 

16. The Light Dragoon. By G. 

E. Gleig. 

17. Longbeard, Lord of London 

(Is. 6d.). By C. Mackay. 

18. Hope Leslie (Is. 6d.). By 

Miss Sedsrwick. 



19. Lilly Dawson (Is. 6d.). By 

Mrs. Crowe. 

20. Dark Scenes of History (Is. 

6d.). By G. P. E. James. 

21. 22. The Eomance of War (2s.). 

By James Grant. 
26, 27. The Aide-de-Camp (2s.). 

By James Grant. 
28, 29. Whitefriars(2s.). By the 

Author of "Whitehall." 
The Scarlet Letter. By X. 

Hawthorne. 
The Knight of St. John 

(Is. 6d.). By Anna Maria 

Porter. 
33,34. Jasper Lyle: a Tale of 

South Africa (2s.). By Mrs. 

Ward. 
36, 37. The Scottish Cavalier 

(2s.). By James Grant. 
I 2 



30. 



32 



116 



Standard and Popular ^Yorks. 



39. Tlie Recluse of Norway 
(Is. 6d.). By Anna Maria 
Porter. 

43. Self-Control (Is. 6d.). By 

Mrs. Brunton. 

44, 45. The Night Side of Nature 

(2s.). By Mrs. Crowe. 
46. Zingra, the Gipsy (Is. 6d.). 
By Mrs. Maillard. 

48. Martin Beck, the Australian 

Emigrant (Is. 6d.). By A. 
Harris. 

49. The Soldier of Fortune. By 

Captain Curling. 

50. Susan Hopley (2s.). By Mrs. 

Crowe, 

52. Helen Charteris. By Mrs. 

Ward. 

53, 54. Whitehall (2s.). By the 

Author of " Whitefriai'S. " 

55. The Polish Lancer, or 1812 

(Is. 6d.). By Louis Eeel- 
stab. 

56. Passion and Principle. By 

Mrs. W. Grey. 

57. The Compulsory Marriage. 

By Mrs. Maillard. 

58. Woodreve Manor. By Mrs. 

A. H. Dorsey. 

60. The Three Musketeers (2s.). 

By A. Dumas. 

61. The Albatross, a Tale of the 

Sea (Is. 6d.). By W. H. 
G. Kingston. 

62. Windsor Castle (Is. 6d.). By 

W. H. Ainsworth. 

64. Rookwood (Is. 6d.). By. W. 

H. Ainsworth. 

65. Caleb Williams. By W. God- 

win. 
^^. St. James's. By W. H. Ains- 
worth. 

67. Csesar Borgia (2s.). By 

the Author of ''White- 
friars." 

68. The Scottish Chiefs (2s.). By 

Miss Porter. 

69. Rockingham (Is. 6d.). By the 

Author of "■ Electra." 

70. Thaddeus of Warsaw (Is. 6d.). 

By Miss Porter. 



71. Pelham; or, the Adventures 

of a Gentleman (Is. Cd.). 
By Sir E. B. Lytton. 

72. Crichton (Is. 6d.). By W. H. 

Ainsworth. 

73. Paul Clifford (Is. 6d.). By Sir 

E. B. Lytton. 

74. The Money-lender (Is. 6d.). 

By Mrs. Gore. 

75. Eugene Aram (Is. 6d.). By 

Sir E. B. Lytton. 

76. Singleton Fontenoy (Is. 6d.). 

By James Hannay. 

77. Last Days of Pompeii (Is. 6d.). 

By Sir E. B. Lytton. 
7 8. The Lancashire Witches (23. ) . 
By W. H. Ainsworth. 

79. Rienzi, the Last of the Roman 

Tribunes (2s.). By Sir 
E. B. Lytton. 

80. The Young Prima Donna. By 

Mrs. Grey. 

81. The Pilgrims of the Rhine. 

By Sir E. B. Lytton. 

82. Pin Money (Is. Cd".). By Mrs. 

Gore. 

83. The Last of the Barons (2s.). 

By Sir E. B. Lytton. 
85. Ernest Maltravers (Is. 6d.). 

By Sir E. B. Lytton. 
'^^. James the Second. Edited by 

W. H. Ainsworth. 

87. Alice (Is. 6d.). By Sir E. B. 

Lytton. 

88. Night and Morning (2s.). By 

Sir E. B. Lytton. 

89. The Fortunes of Colonel -Tor- 

logh O'Brien (Is. ^^.). 

90. Godolphin (Is. 6d.). By Sir 

E. B. Lytton. 

92. The Tower of London (28.). 

By W. H. Ainsworth. 

93. The Disowned (Is. 6d.). By 

Sir E. B. Lytton. 

94. Electra (Is. 6d.). By the 

Author of "^ Rockingham." 

95. Devereux (Is. 6d.). By Sir 

E. B. Lytton. 

96. The Hour and the Man 

(Is. 6d.). By HaiTiet Mar- 
tineau. 



The Railway Lihrary. 



117 



99 



102. 



Leila; or, the Siege of Gra- 
nada. By Sir E. B. Lytton. 
Caxtons: a Family Picture 

{2s.). By SirE. B. Lytton. 
The Flitch of Bacon (Is. 6d.). 

By W. H. A ins worth. 
100, 101. My Novel; or, Varieties 

of English Life (2 vols. 4s.). 

By Sir E. B. Lytton. 
The Old Commodore (Is. 6d.). 

By the Author of **Ilattlin 

the Reefer." 
The Miser's Daughter (Is. 

6d.). By W. H. Ains- 

worth. 
Lucretia; or, the Children 

of Night (Is. 6d.). By Sir 

E. B. Lytton. 
Harold, the Last of the 

Saxon Kings (2s.). By 

Sir E. B. Lytton. 
The Dake (Is, 6d.). By 

Mrs. Grey. 
Zanoni (Is. 6d.) By Sir E. 

B. Lytton. 
Self; or, the Narrow, Narrow 

World (Is. 6d.). By Mrs. 

Gore. 
The Pastor's Fire-side (2s.). 

By jMiss Porter, Author of 

"The Scottish Chiefs," and 

'■'Thaddeus of Warsaw." 

110. Peter Simple (Is. 6d.). By 

Marryat. 

111. Stories of Waterloo (Is. 6d.). 

By Maxwell. 

112. King's Own (Is. 6d.). By 

Marryat. 

113. Marchioness Brinvilliers 
(Is. 6d.). By Albert Smith. 

Midshipman Easy (Is. 6d.). 
By Marryat. 

Love and Amhition. By 
the Author of "Rocking- 
ham." 

116. Rattlin the Reefer (Is. 6d.). 

Edited by Marryat. 

117. Green Hand (Is. 6d.). By 

Cupples. 

118. Arthur O'Leary (2s.). By 

Charles Lever. 



10 



101. 



105, 



106. 



107. 



108. 



109. 



Hi. 



115. 



119. Ledhury's Adventures (2s.). 

By A. Smith. 

120. PachaofManyTales(ls.6d.), 

By Marrj'^at. 

121. Luck is Everything (2s.). 

By Maxwell. 

122. Newton Forster (Is. 6d.). 

By Marryat. 

123. My Cousin Nicholas (Is. 6d.). 

By the Author of "In- 
goldsby Legends." 
121. Jacob Faithful (Is. 6d.). By 
Marryat. 

125. Bothwell {2s.). By Grant. 

126. Scattergood Family (23.). 

By Albert Smith. 

127. Dog Fiend (Is. 6d.). By 

Marryat. 

128. Tylney Hall (2s.). By Thos. 

Hood. 

129. Japhet in Search of a Father 

(Is. 6d.). By Marryat. 

130. The Ward (Is. 6d.). By 

Mrs. Trollope. 

131. The Poacher (Is. 6d.). By 

MaiTvat. 

132. Owen Tudor (23.). By the 

Author of "Whitehall." 

133. Phantom Ship (Is. 6d.). By 

Marryat. 

134. Jane Seton; or, the Queen's 

Advocate (2s.). By James 
Grant. 

135. Philip Rollo; or, the Scot- 

tish Musketeers (2s.). By 
Grant. 

136. Percival Keene (Is. 6d.). By 

Marryat. 

137. Mansfield Park (Is. 6d.). By 

Miss Austen. 

138. Emma (Is. 6d.). By Miss 

Austen. 

139. Northanger Abbey, and Per- 

suasion (Is. 6d.). By Miss 
Austen. 

140. Fardorougha; or, the Miser 

(Is. 6d.j. By Carleton. 

141. The Emigrants (Is. 6d.). 

By Carleton. 

142. The Tithe Proctor (Is. 6d.). 

By Carleton. 



118 



Standard and Popidar Works. 



143. Perkin Warbeck (2s.). By 

]\rrs. Shelley. 

144. Valerie (Is. 6d.). By Mar- 

ry at. 

145. The Chelsea Veterans (Is. 

Gel). By G. R. Gleig. 

146. Schinderhannes ; or, the 

Robber of the Rhine (Is. 
6d.). By L.Ritchie. 

147. The Collegians (Is. 6d.). By 

Gerald Griffin. 

148. The Munster Festivals (Is. 

6d.). By Gerald Griffin. 

149. The Rivals (Is. 6d.). By 

Gerald Griffin. 

150. Gny Fawkes (Is. 6d.). By 

Ainsworth. 

151. Peregrine Bunce (Is. 6d.). 

By Theodore Hook. 

152. Con Cregan (2s.). Anon. 

153. Old St. Paul's (2s.). By 

Ainsworth. 

154. Violet ; or, the Danseuse 

(Is. 6d.). Anon. 

155. Prairie Bird (2s.). By the 

Hon. C. A. Murray. 

156. Linny Lockwood (2s.). By 

Mrs. Crowe. 

157. Petticoat Government (2s.). 

By j\Irs. Trollope. 

158. Captain Blake (2s.). By 

W. H. Maxwell. 

159. The Spendthrift (Is. 6d.). 

By W. H. Ainsworth. 

160. The Bivouac (2s.). By W. 

H. Maxwell. 

161. Marriage in High Life (Is. 

6d.). By Lady Scott. 

162. The Ladder of Gold (2s.). 

By Robert Bell. 

163. Maid of Orleans (2s.). By 

the Author of "White- 
friars." 

164. Millionaire (2s.). By Dudley 

Costello. 



By 

By 
By 

By 



By 

6d.). 



Mrj 



By 



165. Gold Worshippers (Is. 6d.). 

By the Author of '" White- 
friars." 

166. Divorced. By Lady Bury. 

167. Colin Clink (2s.). By C. 

Hooton. 

168. Hector O'Halloran (2s.). 

W. H. Maxwell. 

169. Naval Officer (Is. 6d.). 

Captain Manyat. 

170. Country Curate (2s.). 

Gleig. 

171. Leonora D'Orco (2s.). 

G. P. R. James. 

172. One Fault (2s.). 

Trollope. 

173. The Rifleman (Is. 

Captain Rafter. 

174. Salathiel(2s.). ByDr. Croly. 

175. Clockmaker (2s.). By Sam 

Slick. 

176. Rory O'More (2s.). By Sam. 

Lover. 

177. Captain O'Sullivan (Is. 6d.). 

By W. H. Maxwell. 

178. Old Dominion (2s.). By G, 

P. R. James. 

179. Manoeuvring Mother (2s.). 

By the Author of "The 
Flirt." 
ISO. The Half-Brothers (2s.). By 
Alexandi-e Dumas. 

181. Monte Cristo (2s. 6d.). By 

Alexandre Dumas. 

182. Two Frigates (2s.). By the 

Author of "The Green 
Hand." 

183. The Black Eagle ; or, Ticon- 

derago (2s.). By G. P. R. 
James. 

184. Topsail Sheet Blocks (2s.). 

By the Old Sailor. 



Routledge's Series of Original Novels. 



119 



ROUTLEDGES SERIES OF ORIGINAL NOVELS. 

Critique from a leading London Journal. 

We are glad to perceive that a spirited firm has at length determined to break 
through the old and costly system of publishing original novels in the established 
three-volimie form, at the fixed price of one guinea and a half; a system that, from 
the altered circumstances of library production, has become unsuitable to the ex- 
panding requirements of the age, and which has satisfied neither the author, who 
could obtain only an inadequate remuneration for his work, nor the reader, who 
could not afibrd to purchase it at an extravagant price, and who was consequently 
obliged to depend upon the irregular and imperfect supply which the generality of 
circulating libraries atforded. To remedy these evils, G-eorge Eoutledgk & Co. 
have announced a new series of Original Novels, each to be completed in One 
Yolume, at prices varying from One to Two Shillings — a sum so moderate, that it will 
have the effect of throwing open a vast, and hitherto an almost inaccessible, field of 
literature to all classes of the reading public, and of drawing forth fresh and vigorous 
talent amongst the rising authors of the country. The Pubhshers have already com- 
menced their undertaking with " The Curse of Gold," by E. AV. Jamieson — a power- 
ful and well-sustained novel — indeed, we know of nothing since " Monte Cristo," 
that can be compared to it. If Messrs. Eotttledge be as fortunate in the selection 
of the succeeding works of their Series as in this initiatory volume, we augur for it a 
success greater than has attended the most successful undertakings of these fortunate 
Publishers. 



In fcap Svo volumes, price from 

The Curse of Gold (Is.). By 
R. W. Jamieson, 

The Family Feud (28.). By 
Adam Hornbook (Thomas 
Cooper), Author of "Aldei'- 
man Ralph." 

The Serf-Sisters ; or, the 
Russia of To-Day (Is.). 
By John Harwcod, Author 
of "Sta,mboul, the City of 
Gems.'' 

The Pride of the Mess : a Naval 
Novel of the Crimean War 
(Is. 6d.). By the Author i 
of " Cavendish." ! 

Frank Hilton; or, the Queen's 
Own (28.). ByJamesGrant, 
Author of ' ' The Romance 
of War," ''Philip Rollo," | 
&c. &c. 

My Brother's Wife (Is. 6d.). J 
By A. B. Edwards. { 

Adrian ; or, Parent Power ' 
(Is. 6d.). By Mrs. Mail- ' 
lard, Author of " Zingra \ 
the Gipsy," " Compulsory ' 
Marriage," &c. i 

The Yellow Frigate ; or, the ! 
Three Sisters (2s.). By J, , 
Grant. ' 



10. 



11. 



12. 



13. 



11. 



By 
By 

By 



Is. to 2s. fancy boarded covers. 

9. Evelyn Forester: a Woman's 
Story (Is. 6d.). By Mar- 
guerite A. Power. 

Harry Ogilvie ; or, the Black 
Dragoons (2s.). By James 
Grant. 

Ladder of Life (Is. 6d.). 
Miss Edwards. 

The Two Convicts (2s.). 
Frederick Gerstaecker. 

Deeds, not Words (2s.). 
M. Bell. 

The Feathered Arrow ; or, the 
Forest Rangers (2s.). By 
F. Gerstaecker. 

15. The Ties of Kindred (Is. 6d.). 

By Owen Wynn. 

16. Will He Marry Herl (2s.) By 

John Lang. 

17. Tht-^ Secret of a Life (^2s.). By 

M. M. Bell. 

The Loyal Heart ; or, the Trap- 
pers (Is. 6d.). By Aimard. 

The Ex- Wife (2s.). By John 
Lang. 

Arthur Blane ; or, the 100 
Cuirassiers (2s.). By James 
Grant. 
21. Highlanders of Glen-TTra(2s.). 
By James Grant. 



18. 



19. 



20. 



120 Standar^d and Popular Worlds. 



SUPPLEMENTARY. 

JAPAN AND ITS PEOPLE.— WITH ILLUSTRATIONS. 
In post 8vo, price 5s., cloth gilt. 

JAPAN AND ITS PEOPLE. By Andrew Steinmetz. 

^ \^\\.h. numerous Illustrations. 

Perhaps no event, since the discovery of Mexico and Peru, has excited more eager 
curiosity and speculation than the abundant information which has now first reached 
us of this remarkable country, in which a high degree of civilization, as ancient as 
that of China, is (unlike that country) found to be compatible with material progress, 
and the adoption of all great modern discoveries in scientific mechanics, &c. Their 
manners and customs are very singular, and in some respects not unworthy of imita- 
tion. Their internal government and social organization is so perfect in its working, 
that, with a teeming population, want is almost unknown. The most complete 
information in all its details, upon Japan and its i^eople, will be found in Mr. Stein- 
metz's work, which, in its variety and copiousness, exhausts every topic that can 
stimulate our curiosity. 

HALF-HOURS WITH THE BEST AUTHORS.— IN SIXPENNY 
FORTNIGHTLY PARTS. 



H 



On the First of March, 1S59, will be ready, Part I., price 6d., of 

ALF-HOUPS WITH THE BEST AUTHOPS. 

Selected and Edited by Chakles Knight, ^Yith short Biogra- 
phical and Critical Notes. 

This work will be completed in Twenty-two Sixpenny Parts, illustrated with Steel 
Portraits of sixteen of the most celebrated authors, and Pifty-two Wood Engravings 
by W. Harvey. 

Each fortnightly part will contain fourteen pieces of a sufficient length to occupy 
half an hour's ordinary reading; two of them, the seventh and fourteenth in each 
part, being selected from some theological writer of universal acceptance and 
authorit}'. 

The work, complete, forms an Encyclopsedia of English Literature, comprising 
selections in poetry or prose, whether Essays, Characters, Stories ; Descriptive, 
Narrative, or Dramatic Terse; Remarkable Adventures, Moral and Eehgious Exhor- 
tation, taken from the best and highest works in aU literature. 

Part I. (price Sixpence), with Steel Plate and Two Illustrations, will 
comprise the following : — 



Influence of Science. By Sir John 

Herschel. 
The Death of the Son of Gaston de Foil, 

Cy Froissart. ' 

Scenes from the " City Madam." By 

Massinger. 
The Sack of Magdeburg. By Harte. 
A 'i ale of Terror. By Courier. 
'J he Opening Year. By the Poets. 
A Good Man's Day, By Bishop Hall. 



Roger Ascham and Lady Jane Grey. By 

Lander. 
Dejection. By Coleridge. 
Apothegms. By various Authors. 
Speech at Plymouth. By George 

Canning. 
Sir Roger de Coverley. By Addison, 
The Barometer. By Arnott. 
Sunday. By George Herbert. 



Specimen 2^ages Gratis, on ajyj^licatioJi. 

The complete Work in 4 vols., price 14s., or bound in Two, price 12s., 
may also be obtained. 



Supplementary. 121 



A NEW ALPHABET OF FLOWERS. 
Price Is., boards, or with coloured plates, 2s • 

AN ALPHABET OF FLOWERS, FOE, A GOOD 
-^^ CHILD. With 24 Engravings from Original Designs. 

This work is illustrated in a very superior manner, and has only to be seen to be 
at once appreciated. 

BOSWELL'S LIFE OF JOHNSON, ILLUSTRATED.— IN SIXPENNY 
FORTNIGHTLY PARTS. 

On the First of March, 1859, will be ready, Part I., price 6cl-, of 

BOSWELL'S LIFE OF JOHNSON. With Twenty 
Illustrations. To be completed in Twenty Sixpenny Parts. 
Illustrated with upwards of 250 Engravings of Portraits, Views, and 
Characteristic Designs by eminent Artists. 

Extract from Preface. 

A work so well known as " BosweU's Life of Johnson" needs no eulogy to those 
who have read it. Hitherto, however, the book has hardly been brought within 
reach of the great mass of the lovers of literature; and it may interest those who 
make acquaintance for the first time with this masterpiece of Biography, to know 
that the most eminent of critics who have written upon the subject since the book 
appeared, are vmanimous in their opinion, that as a life-like portraiture, not only of 
the personal appearance and singular habits of a distinguished man, but of his strong 
prejudices, his vigorous eloquence, his homely common sense, and his ready wit, 
so strikingly shown in the series of conversations which the industiy of Boswell has 
preserved to us— this book stands unrivalled in the hterature of our own or any 
other nation. It is to be hoped that the present edition wiU recommend itself, both 
by its cheapness and by the more sterhng qualities of careful annotation and copious 
and judicious illustration which it will be found to possess, to many thousands who 
have not hitherto had an opportunity of becoming familiar with the work. 

Specimen pages Gratis, on application. 

Price 2s. 6^-> cloth gilt. 
"OIYAL RHYMES, commemorative of tlie First Ceiite- 
J-*^ nary of the Birth-day of Burns ; not destined for the PHze of the 
Crystal Palace, but the Surprize of the Public in general, who are 
requested to be their own judges on the occasion. Contributed by the 

following choice Pens :— F r P 1, The P 1 L te, W. M. 

T y, B^y C— w-U, H. W. L— g— w, M. F. T^ r, L— d 

M y, S. L r, G ves of S — yd — n, T. C le. Immoktals. 

— T. C— b— 11, J. M— t— n, A. P pe, T. H d. Collected and 

Edited by Ben Trovato. 



122 Standard and Popular Worlcs. 



Messrs. Boiitledge, Warnes^ and Routledge 

Have the pleasure to announce that they intend to issue 
IN FORTY-EIGHT SHILLING MONTHLY PARTS, 

SIiriLAB IX SIZE AND APPEAEAKCE TO "EOUTLEDGE'S ILLUSTKATED SHAKSPEAEE,' 



TO BE EKTITLED 



ROUTLEDGE'S 
ILLUSTRATED NATURAL HISTORY, 

By the Rev. J. G. WOOD, M.A., F.L.S., etc. 
lEllustratclj toiti) ©(signs 

BY WOLF, HAKA^EY, HAREISOX WEIR, COLEMAN, etc. etc. 
ENGRAVED BY DALZIEL BROTHERS. 

Each Part will contain 48 pages of matter, 2yrinted in elegant type, on 

Jine paper, super-royal 8ro, with the average number 

of thirty exquisite Wood Engravings. 

Part I. will be ready for delivery on the 1st April, 1859. 



In consequence of the kind patronage that the Public have awarded to the " Illus- 
trated Shakspeare," the Publishers have determined to gratify the wish of numerous 
Correspondents, by issuing a comxDrehensive ISTatukal Histoet, treated in a 
Popular Style, with the view of supplying a want that has long been felt. 

It is needless to enlarge upon the importance of a Work, undertaken upon this 
liberal scale, on so delightful a branch of knowledge, which becomes the more attrac- 
tive the longer it is pursued. It is sufficient to say that the Illl'STRated XAxrRAL 
HiSTOEY win embody all the leading facts with which the most eminent Is aturahsts 
have enriched the stores of this interesting science ; and that the Illustrations will 
be designed by the best Artists of the present day, pre-enunent for their skill in this 
branch. 

The Publishers, in thus announcing the plan of an undertaking in which they have 
confidently embarked an enormous outlay, and to the adequate carrying out of 
which they will devote their unremitting attention, have no hesitation in affirming 
that their 

ILLUSTRATED NATURAL HISTORY 

will be unequalled for beauty of illustration, elegance of typographical execution 
and paper, and lowness of price. For a sum which brings it within the reach of all 
the reading classes, the Pubhshers ofl'er to the PubHc the only work yet written in a 
style at once popular and scientific, which embraces the entire Animal Kingdom, and 
is illustrated in a manner worthy of the subject. 

They specially recommend this work to Schools, Public Libraries, Mechanics' 
Institutes, and Families generally, to whose book-shelves its handsonie appearance 
will make it an ornament, while its low price will render it easy of attainment. 

Specimens of the "Work, with the Woodcuts, may he had on 
application to the Publishers, or to any Bookseller. 



INDEX TO THE GENERAL CATALOGTTR 



PAGE 

Abbott' s Youn g Christian 109 

Abbott's (Jacob) AVorks 110 

Adams' (C.) Boys at Home 57 

Edgar CHfton 52 

Matilda Lonsdale 58 

Adams (H. G.) on Singing Birds 38 

Aiken's (Lucy) Travels ot Rolando ... 55 
Ainsworth's Works (Illustrated Edition) 15 

Mer\yn Clitheroe ib. 

Works (Cheap Edition) ... 20 

Ballads 95 

Akenside's Poetical Works,byWillmott 90 

Allen's (Archd.) Penny Hyum-Book... 107 

Church Kymn-Book ib. 

Allen's (J.) Life of IS^elsou 12 

Allen's (Mrs.) Laura and Ellen 66 

AUingham's Poems 95 

Alphabet of Flowers 121 

American Handbook 74 

American Poets, W'oi-ks of 96, 97 

Amy Carlton 64 

Arabian Xights' Entertainments 49 

Arago's Astronomy, by TomHuson ... 33 
Aunt Mayor's Picture Story Books ... 51 

Toy Books 51,68, 70 

Little Library 68, 70 

Austen's (Miss) Novels 20 

Bancroft's History of America (two 

editions) 4 

Barbauld's (Mrs.) Evenings at Home 55 

Barnes' Commentaries on the Bible... 104 

Practical Sermons ib. 

Battles (Great) of the British Army . 8 

Baxter's America and Americans 4 

Bayley's jSTew Taleof aXub 17 

Beattie's Minstrel, with Illustrations 48 

Bell's (M.) Eda Morton 61 

BeU's (E.) Wayside Pictures 28 

Besset's (Mrs.) Black Princess 66 

Memoirs of a Doll ib. 

Bible History, Genesis to Joshua 60 

Biography, Standard Editions of 9, 12 

Blakey on AngUng 38 

Shooting ib . 

Bloomfleld's Poetical Works 94 

Bogatzsky's Golden Treasury 103, 106 

Bounechose's History of France 3, 88 

Boswell's Life of Dr. Johnson 9, 121 

Bowman's (Miss) Castaways 54 

Common Things ... 76 

Esperanza 57 

Kangaroo Hunters . 60 

Laura Temple 63 

Travels of Rolando . 56 

Young Exiles 54 

Boys at Home 57 



P-AGB 

Boy's First Readiug Book 82 

Boy's Second Readmg Book 82 

Boy's Own Story Book 56 

Bryant's Poetical Works 97 

Buchanan's Christian Researches 101 

Buckland's (Dr.) Geology and Mine- 
ralogy 30 

Buckley's (Rev. T. A.) Ancient 

Cities 60 

Calmet's Dictionary 101 

Dawnings of Genius 55 

Great Cities of the Middle Ages 58 

Seven Wonders of the World ... 56 

BulwerLytton-sWorki| Various') ?5 

Bunbury's Sir Guy D'Esterre 16 

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress 102, 103 

Burns' Poetical Works 90, 93 

Busk (Hans) on the Rifle 31 

Calmet's BibHcal Dictionary 101 

Campe's Robinson the Younger 64i 

Campbell's Gertrude of W'yomiug 48 

Pleasures of Hope, &c. ... 79 
Campbell's (Lady) Story of an 

Apple 66 

Cabin by the Wayside ... ib. 
Carleton's Traits of Irish Peasantry ... 17 

Tales and Stories 21 

Carnarvon's (Earl of) Hampshire 43- 

Carpenter's Song-Book 95 

Songs and Ballads 97 

Chadwick's Poems of Life 95 

Channing's Life and Correspondence 12 

Charm of Entertaining Stories 49 

Of Entertainmg Knowledge ... ib; 

Chatelain's Laughter Book 62 

Naughty Boys and Girls... ib. 

Chaucer's Canterbury Tales 92 

Cheever's Youthful Christian 102 

Chess, Game of 75 

Che vreul, on Contrast of Colour ...32, 75 

Child's Aritlimetic 86 

Chorley's Fa,iry Gold 54 

Church and Home Tune-Book 108 

Clarke on the Microscope 32 

Cobbin's Descriptive Testament 109 

Common Objects of the Country SI 

Common Objects of the Sea-Shore ...35, 39 

Cooke's China in 1857-8 28 

Cooper's (J. F.) Novels and Tales 22 

Country, Books for the 38 

Cowper's Poetical Works 91, 93 

Crabbe's Poetical Works 90, 93 

Craig's Dictionary 79 

Croquet, Game of 75 



124 



Index to the General Catalogue. 



PAGE 

Crosland's (Mrs.) Hildred the 

Daughter 57 

Stray Leaves... 58 

Crowe (Mrs.) "Works of 21 

Uncle Tom's Cabin 57 

Crowquill's Alfred (Fairy Tales) 60 

Cumming's Family Pictures 102 

Cummins' (Miss) Lamplighter 63 

D'Aulnoy's Fairy Tales 50 

De La Voye's French Dictionary 80 

Nouveau Melange 81 

De Tyne's Day after To-morrow 16 

Delamer on Flax and Hemp 38 

Kitchen and Flower Garden 35, 38 

On Pigeons and Kabbits 38 

D'Ewes' Sporting in both Hemispheres 39 
Disraeli's (Isaac) Amenities of Lite- 
rature 40 

Calamities and Quarrels of Authors ib. 

Curiosities of Literature ib. 

Literary Character of Men of Genius ib. 
Disraeli's (Beuj.) Biography of Lord 

G. Bentinck 10 

Novels (Library Edition) 13 

,, (Railway Edition) 11. 

Dodd's Curiosities of Industry 37, 74 

Novelties, Inventions, &c. 32, 73 

Doddridge's Else and Progress 106 

Don Quixote, by Jarvis 50 

Donkey's Shadow 65 

Doyle's Domestic Poultry 37 

Farm and Garden Produce... 39 

Kural Economy 35, 38 

Small Farms 38 

Things Worth Knowing 77 

Dravson's Sporting Scenes among the 

Kaffirs 39 

Dryden's Poetical Works 92 

Didcken's One Hundred Picture 

Fables 47 

Dumas' Count of Monte Cristo 16 

Novels of 22 

Edgeworth (Miss) Works of 22 

Early Lessons 59 

Frank 65 

Harry and Lucy ... ib. 

Moral Tales 59 

Parents' Assistant ib. 

Popular Tales ib. 

Eosamond 65 

Educational Lectures 73 

Educational Manuals (Eoutledge's) ... 84 

Educational Works 80—87 

Edwards' Historjr of France 77, 86 

English History, Summary 86 

Ehjah the Tishbite 105 

Elwes' (Alfred) Adventures of a Bear 62 

Adventures of a Cat. ib. 

Of a Dog ib. 

Richmond's Tour 65 

Embassies and Foreign Courts 5 

Emigrant's Lost Son, by Wall 66 

Eminent Men and Popular Books 75 



Ernest Jones' Battle Day 

Emperor's Vigil 

Everlasting Books 

Everlasting Primers 

Eveiy Boy's Book 



Fairy Tales, by CrowquiU ( 

Faithless Parrot < 

Family Liturgy (The) 1< 

Fanny, The Little Milliner : 

Farm'Yard ( 

Felice's Protestants of France 

Fenelon, Writings of K 

Fenning's Spelling Book 1 

Ferguson's Enghsh Sitrnames • 

Fiction, Standard Works of IS—! 

Eoutledge's Standard Novels 18 — : 

Fielding's Works : 

Flower Garden, Little Girl's Visit i 

Fonblanque's How we are Governed 

Forrest's Gymnastics 

Playground ' 

Swimming and Skating ' 

Foxe's Book of MartjTS 1 

Four Sisters (The) ■ 

Frog that would a Wooing Go < 

Fullom's History of Woman 

Marvels of Science 

Gay's Fables, by Owen 

German Eeading Book, by Oswald ... 

Gerstaecker's Works 

Frank Wildman's Adventures 

Little Whaler 

Wild Sports in the Far West 

Gilbert the Adventurer 

Girl's First Eeading Book 

Girl's Second Eeading Book 

Gladstone' s Kansas 

Goldsmith, Johnson, &c., Poems of ... 

Goldsmith's Poems, by WiUmott 

Good Boys 

Gore's (Mrs.) Novels 

Gospel (The) for the Unlearned 1 

Graglia's Italian Dictionary , 

Graham's Hymn Book 1 

Graham's (F.) Visits to Zoological 
Gardens 

Grant's (James) Cavaliers of Fortune 

■ Memoirs of Montrose 

Novels and Tales ... 

Gray, Pamell, &c., Poems of 

Greedy Jem and Little Brothers 

Griffin's (Gerald) Works 

Grimm's Home Stories, by Davis 

Guizot's (Madame) Tales for my ChU- 

di-en 

Ten Moral Tales 

Moral Tales, by Mrs. Btirke ...55, 

Guy's School Expositor 

Hall's (Mrs. M.) Royal Princesses of 
England H, 

HaU's (Mrs. S. C.) Daddy Dacre's 
School 



Index to the General Catalogue. 



125 



PAGE 

laU's (Mrs. S. C.) Lucky Penny 61 

Tales of Woman's Trials ... 41 
landboots, Routledge's Sixpenny ... 75 

lans Andersen's Fairy Tales 56 

lappy Days of Childhood 62 

larland's Church Psalter and Hj-mnal 108 

Index Sermouum 101 

Harrison's Common Psalter 108 

larry and his Homes 63 

laweis' Communicant's Companion ... 110 
lawker's Morning Portion 105 

Daily Portion ib. 

Evening Portion ih. 

Elazlitt's (Wm.) Criticisms and Essays 41 
tiazhtt's (W. C.) British Columbia ... 73 

aearty Staves of Heart Music 98 

Selena Bertram 61 

Heraldry, Handbook of 75 

Serbert's Works, by Willmott 90 

Hero (A), illustrated by Godwin 65 

HiUs of the Shatemuc 64 

HiU's (Rowland) Village Dialogues ... 105 

Histories, Series of Standard 88 

History, Standard Works of 1 — 8 

Hoare's (C.) Wine and Spirit Mer- 
chant's Guide 80 

Hoare's (Rev. G. T.) Village Museum 43 

Hogg's Microscope 31 

Holdsworth's Law of Landlord and 

Tenant 77 

Law of Wills, &c ib. 

Holiday Rambles 65 

Holmes's Poetical Works 97 

Home Book of Household Economy... 76 

Hooper's (Jane AV.) Arbell 61 

Horses and Hounds, Management of. ., 36 

How to do Good 106 

Hewitt's Country Book 58 

Homes and Haunts of British Poets 42 

Hulse's Gertrude and Eulalie 63 

Sumiliation and Exaltation of Christ. . 106 
Hunt's Outram and Havelock's Per- 
sian Campaign 27 

lymn Books 107—108 

Illustrated Present Books 44—48 

Influence 56 

Island Home ib, 

imes's (G. P. R.) Great Commanders 11 

Novels and Tales... 17, 18 

James's (Dr. J.) Treasury of Medicine 74 

Japan and its People, Steinmetz 120 

Jenks' Prayers for Young Persons . . . 101 
Prayers and Devotions, by Simeon 106 

Jones's (Mrs.) Lottery 27 

Johnson's Dictionary 85 

ByDr. NuttaU 83 

School Dictionary ib. 

Pocket Dictionary 74 

JuTeuile Books 48-49 

Routledge's Series of... 53— 66 

Kangaroo Hunters, The 60 

Karr's Tour round my Garden 34 



PAGE 

Kenny's English Grammar 81 

Kirby's Bundle of Sticks 63 

Kirke White's Poetical AVorks 92, 93 

Kitto's Pictorial Life of Christ 102 

Bible History of the Holy Land 103 

Knight's Boy's Own Story Book 56 

Cyclopaedia, National 77 

Half-Hours with Best Authors ...43, 120 
Half-Hours of English History 43 

Lamplighter, The 27 

Law's Serious Call 105 

Lee's Parthenia 64 

Leigh Hunt's Stories in Verse 94 

Letter AVriter, Complete 76 

Le^'inge's (Sir R.) Brookside Harriers 27 

Little Drummer, illustrated by Gilbert 65 

Little Lychets ib. 

Little Minxes 62 

Lives of Good Servants 77 

London, Picture Book, The 48 

Longfellow's Evangeline 48, 94 

Courtship of Miles Standish ib. 

Golden Legend 97 

Hyperion and Kavanagh 98 

Miscellaneous Poems 4S 

OutreMer 98 

Poetical Works 48, 93, 96 

Prose AVorks 93 

Song of Hiawatha (2 editions) 94 

Voices of the Night 48 

Loudon's (Mrs.) Naturalist's Journey 63 

Lowell's (J. R.) Poetical Works 97 

Mabel A^aughan 64 

MacFarlane's Catacombs of Rome ... 43 

History of British India 8 

British India 89 

Life of Marlborough ... 10 

Life of AA'ellington 11 

M'Intosh (Miss) AVorks of, 23 

Juvenile AVorks of. . . 64 
Mackay's (Dr. C.) Collected Songs and 

Poems 93, 96 

Egeria and other Poems 96 

Home Affections 46 

Lump of Gold 96 

Poetical AA^orks 92 

Popular D elusions 6 

Under Green Leaves ... 96 

Markham's SpeUiug Book 87 

Marryat's (Capt.) Novels 24 

Children of the New Forest ... 53 

Little Savage 52 

Martin on the Pig 38 

On Cattle ib. 

On Sheep ib. 

Martineau' 8 Feats on the Fiord 65 

Crofton Boys ib. 

Peasant and the Prince ... 66 

Settlers at Home ib. 

Mason's Spiritual Treasury 109 

Masson's Celebrated Children 64 

Master's Ready Reckoner, by Heaton 75 

Mayor's Spelling Book 87 



126 



Index to the General Catalogue. 



PAGE 

Maxwell's (W. H.) Novels and Tales... 24 

kav's (Miss) Dashwood Priory 52 

Loins' School Days ib. 

Saxelford ; a Story for Boys... ib. 

Mayhew's (E.) Management of Dogs 36 

Mayhew's (H.) Upper Rhine 47 

^ Lower Rhine ib. 

Mavo's (Dr.) Kaloolah ....^..... 61 

Mechi's How to Farm Profitably 39, 74 

Meteyard's Lilian's Golden Hours ... 52 

Michaud's History of the Crusades ... 5 

Miller's English Country Life 35 

Milne's (Rev. AV.C.) Life in China ... 29 

MUton'sComus .■■■;■■•■ '^ 

Poetical AVorks 91 

Miniature Ready Reckoner 80 

Minna Raymond ■- b" 

Miscellaneous Literature 40—44 

Mitchell's Orbs of Heaven . 31 

Montgomery's Edmund Burke 44 

Motley's Dutch Republic 3 

Murrav's Abridgment 85 

Murray's (Hon. C.) Lands of the 

Slave and the Free 29 

My Little Boy's Book 51 

Mvlius' School Dictionary 82 

Myrtle's (Miss) Amusing Tales 65 

Broken Pitcher ib. 

Little Foundling 63 

Ocean Child 53 

Napier's (Sir C.) William the Con- 
queror 16 

IS'apoleou Bonaparte, Life of 11 

Is'ational Cyclopcedia, The 77 

NaturalHistory,StandardWorksof 33 — iO 

Natural History, by Wood 122 

Nelson (Dr.) on Infidelity 101 

Newland's Forest Life 33 

Northcote's Fables 53 

Novels, Standard Editions of 18—20 

Nugent' s French Dictionary 83 

Nurserv Tales for Good Little Boys... 51 

Nuttall's Johnson's Dictionary 83 

Walker's Pronouncing Dictionary' ib. 

Webster's Dictionary 87 

Odes and Sonnets, illustrated 45 

Oriental Fairy Tales 58 

Original ^ovels, Routledge's 119 

Osier's Life of Lord Exmouth 11 

Otto Speckter's Picture Fables 47 

Our Dumb Favourites 62 

Owen's Heroines of History 57 

Spirit of the Holly 63 

Palliser's Solitary Hunter 64 

Palmer's Old Tales for the Young 58 

Peel (Sir Robert), Speeches of 44 

People's Church H5^nn Book 107 

People's Blue Book 43 

Percy's Reliques, by Willmott 90 

Picture Story Books 57 

Pictures from the Battle Fields 6 

Pierce's Household Manager 72 



PAGE 

Planehe's Four and Twenty Fairy Tales 50 

D'Aulnoy's Fairy Tales ib. 

Poe and Dana's Poetical Works 9S 

j Poetical Works of Goldsmith, &c, ... 93 

I Poetry for Schools and Families 86 

I Poets, British, Poems of the 45. 89, 93 

Poets of the Nineteenth Century, by 

Willmott 46|j 

Pope's Homer's Hiad and Odyssey ... 871 

Poetical Works 91, 100 1 

Porter's (The Misses) Novels 24 

Prescott's Charles the Fifth (various 

editions) 2, 9, 8S 

Conquest of Mexico (3 editions). 2, 9, 88 
Conquest of Peru (3 editions) ...2, 9, 8S 

Essays (3 editions) 2, 4, 9 

Ferdinand and Isabella (various 

editions) 1, 2, 9, SS 

Philip the Second (various ed.) 1, 2, 9, 8S 

i Present for a Good Boy 51 

Presents, Illustrated Books for 44, 48 

I Press and the Public Service 41 , 

I Primer, Everlasting 69 Ji 

Queen of Flowers 34|' 

I Railway Library, The 115 

I Rauke's History of the Popes S 

I Rarev on Horse Taming 33 

I "The Art of Taming Wild Horses 34 

Raymond's Life of Elliston 9 

j Religious Publications 100, 110 

I Rham's Dictionary of the Farm 36 

I Rhymes and Roundelays on Country 

j Life 47 

Rival Rhymes 121 

I Robert andHarold 63 

I Robinson Crusoe 54, 60,63,86 

I Robson's Great Sieges of History 7 

I John Railton 57 

I Life of Richelieu , 12 

Rockingham, Novels by the Author of 24 

Romaine's Life of Faith 105 

Romance of Adventure 66 

Routledge's Popular Libbabies : — 

American Handbook 74 

British Poets 89, 93 

Cheap Series Ill 

Educational Manuals 84 

Everlasting Books 74 

Juvenile Books 53,66 

Natural History Illustrated 122 . 

Novels, Original 119 ■ 

Railway Library 115 

Sixpenny Handbooks 75 

Standard Biography 12 

Standard Novels 18—20 

Toy-Books 62 

Useful Library 76—77 

Useful Literature 71—75 

i Routledge's (Dr.) Syntax of Bishop 

Wordsworth 81 

Accidence of Eton Grammar ib. 

New Eton Grammar ib., 

I Rowcroft's Fanny, the Milliner 16 

Bunaways, and the Gipsies 65 



Index to the General Catalogue. 



127 



PAGE 

Rundell'g Domestic Cookery 74 

iussell's (Dr. W.) History of Modern 

Eiu'ope 5 

Modern Europe Epitomized 3 

Russell's (W.) Extraordinary Men ... 10 

Extraordinary Women 36 

ciusseU's (TV. H.) Crimean War 5 

Sara Slick's Works 25 

5audford and Merton, by Day 54 

Science, Standard Works on 30 — 33 

Scott's (Sir W.) Poetical Works 92 

Shakspeare's Works, by Hazlitt 98 

By Johnson, Steevens, &c.... 99 

By Howard Staunton 99 

Doubtful Plays and Poems of 98 

Knight's Biography of 44 

(Knight's Companion) 100 

Sheridan Kuowles's Dramatic Works 100 
Sibson's Agricultural Chemistry, 34, 39, 73 

Sigourney 's Poetical Works 97 

Simmonds' Arctic Regions 64 

Dictionary of Trade Products 72 

ixpenny Handbooks, Eoutledge's ... 75 

leigh's Handy Book on Criminal Law 72 

smith' s French Dictionary 82 

Smith's (Albert) Novels and Tales ... 25 

Smollett's Works 26 

Southey's Joan of Arc, &c 92, 93 

loyer's Culinary Campaign 41 

Shilling Cookery 78 

Spectator 43 

Spelling Books (various^^ 87 

Spencer's Turkey, Russia, &e 28 

Spenser's Eaerie Queene 91 

Standard Biography 12 

'■•tonehenge's British Rural Sports ... 37 

tory Books, Aunt Maror's 51 

Jtowe's (Mrs.) Uncle Tom's Cabin ... 26 

Struwelpeter 62 

mmner (Rev. G. H.) on the Earth ... 80 

wiss Family Robinson 55 

asso's Godfrey of Boulogne 90 

. aylor's Life of Christ 102 

Cennyson's Poems, Illustrated 46 

''honias's Historical Tales 65 

'homsou and Beattie's Poems 91 

'homson's (Dr.) Wanderings among 

AYild Flowers 35 

'hornbury's History of theBuccaneers 52 

'oy-Books, Colotired 62 

Everlasting 70 

'radesman' s Ready Calculator 77 

'ravels and Voyages, AVorks on... 27 — 30 

CroUope (Mrs.)", Novels of 25 

Jncle Tom's Cabin, by Crowe 57 

Unprotected Females in Sicily, &c 29 

In Norway .... ib. 

Jseful Library 76 — 77 

'seful Literature 71 — 75 



PAGB 

Visible MultipKcation Table 80 

Voyage and Venture 55 

Vyse's Spelling Book 87 

Walker's Dictionary, by Dr. Nuttall... 83 
Walkingame's Tutor's Assistant, by 

Young 85 

Key to Tutor's Assistant, by Young ib. 

Walpole's Reign of George II 8 

Walsh's (Dr.) Domestic Economy ... 71 

Domestic Medicine ib. 

EugHsh Cookery Book ... 72 

Economical Housekeeper 73 

Ward's (Mrs.) Hardy and Hunter ... 52 

Watts' Psalms, Hymns, &c 109 

Scripture History 87 

World to Come 105 

Watts' Poultry Yard 38 

Webb's Garies and their Friends 27 

Webster's Dictionary, by Goodrich ... 84 

By Dr. Nuttall 87 

Wetherell's Wide, Wide World 27 

Whist, Handbook of 75 

White's Natural History of Selborne, 

by Wood 37 

"VMiite's (Rev. J.) Landmarks of 

English History 71^ 76 

Landmarks of Grecian History 7Q 

Lives of Burns and Scott 9, 64 

Whitefriars, Novels by the Author of 25 

Whittier's Poetical Works 97 

Wide, Wide World 27 

Wigan's Great Wonders of the World 65 
Williams' (Archd.) Life of Julius 

Caesar 12 

WUliams's (F.) German Dictionary... 85 

Willis's Poetical Works 97 

WiUmott's (Rev. R. A.) British Poet's^ 

45, 46, 49, 89, 93 

Pleastires of Literature 44 

Summer Time in the Country 45 

Percy* fRehques 90 

Wilson's (Mrs.) Our Native Land 64 

Wolf's Fairy Tales, by Mackenzie ... 69 

Wood (Rev. J. G.) on Bees 33 

My Feathered Friends 59 

Natural History 35 

Objects of the Seashore ... 35 

Objects of the Country 39 

Sketches of Animal Life 58—59 

Wordsworth's Deserted Cottage 48 

Poems, by Willmott ... 45 
Poetical Works 90, 93 

Youatt and Cecil on the Horse 38 

Young Ragamuffins 62 

Young's (F.) Questions on White's 

" Landmarks of English History" 7, 80 

Young's (J. R.) Algebra 86 

Young's Walkingame's Tutor's As- 
sistant 85 

Key to Ditto ], ib. 



loxdon: 

^aviil and id-wakdp, pkiktkjvp, chawdos stkiet, 

cotext garden. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 739 7 



B.P.L. t: 



liiiJI 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



ROUTLEDGE'S 

POPULA R LIBR ARIES. 

** Books to please the million must not only be good but attractive; not simply 
strengthen the constitution, but please, if not tickle and excite, the palate. When 
the masses go to Routlbdgb'b they are at least sureof being gratified and pleased ; 
they have still to acquire the same conviction in other quarters."— TA« Times, 



ROUTLEDQE'S CHEAP SERIES. 

" Books you may hold in your hand are the most useful after $il,"—Dr.Jvhnson, 
" This valuable Series now contains upwards of 170 volumes. Thev form a 
complete library of instructive, useful, andentertaining knowledge. Eacn work is 
sold separately, at prices varying from One to Two Shillings, and many of them 
arc illustrated. They are admirably adapted for all Mechanics' Institutes, Sol- 
diers' and Sailors' Libraries, or Village Book Clubs, and for all kinds of popular 
instruction. They embrace the Works of our best authors in the various depart- 
ments of Biography, History, Fiction, &c. : and Books that formerly cost pounds 
may now be obtained for sMuinrt. 

" No family ought to be witnout this Library, as it furnishes the readiest re- 
sources for that education which ought to accompany or succeed that of the 
boarding-school or academy, and it is infinitely more conducive than either to the 
cultivation of the intellect and the well-being of society." 



Price It, each in Fancy Boards, except where specified. 
CONTENTS OF THE SERIES-VIZ.: 



1. Wide, Wide World (2*.). By 
Miss Wetherell. 

6. Nelson (Life of). By James 

Allen. 
6. Wellington (Life of). By 

Charles MacPailaBe. 

10. YicarofWakefleldaadPoemi. 
By Oliver Goldsmith. 

12. Sir Sobert Feel: Hii Life and 

Times. 

13. The Arctio Beglone (Is. 6(2.). 

By P. L. Simmonds. 

14. Queechy (2s,), By Miss 

Wetherell. 

19. India. With Illustrations 
{Is, 6d,), By J. H. Stoc- 
queler. 

22. Borne and the Early Chris- 

tiani. By W. Ware. 

23. Gold Colonies of Australia. 

By G. B. Earp. 

By G. B. Earp. 



25. What we did in Australia. 
Edited by G. B. Earp. 

Si. Two Tears before the Hast 
(Is, 6d.), By Dana. 

35. Bepmantative Kan. By B. 
W. Emerson. 

39. l^fpedoii. By Longfellow. 

42. OUver Goldsmith's lifs. By 
Washington Irving. 

44. LiTBf of the Snceessors of 
Mahomet. By Washington 
Irving. . 

46. Nelson on Infidelity. Edited 

by the Eev. G. A. Rogers. 

47. Bnssia as it is. By J.. B. 

Morell. 

50. Turkey: Past and Present 
By J. B. Morell. 

57. The Boving Englishman. 

63. Hochelaga (Is. 6d,), Edited 
by Eliot Warburton. 



>UTLEDQE, WARNES, AND ROUTi.£DGE. 



ROUTLEOQE'S POPULAR LIBRARIES. 



65. Sumy Hsmoxiei of Foreign 
Lands (If. 6d»). By Mra. 
Stowe. 

70. Shilling Cookery for the 
People. By A. Soyer. 

71, 72. The History of the Beign 
of Ferdinand and Isabella 
(2 Toli. 4*.). By W. H. 
rrescott. 

82, 88. History of the Conquest 
of Hezioo (2 toIs. it.). 
By W. H. PreKott. 

85, 86. The History of the Con- 
quest of Pern (2 vols. is.). 
By W. H. Prescott. 

92, Burmah and the Bnrmese. 
By K. H. E. Mackensie. 

, 95. The War; or, Voioes firam the 
Banks. 

96. The Pleasures, Objeets, and 

Advantages of Literatnre. 
By the B«y. B. A. Willmott. 

97. Biographical and Critical 

Essays (2«.). By W. H. 
Prescott. 

98. EdncationalLeotnre8(l«. 6<2.) 

delivered at St. Martin's 
Hail. 

100. Turkey {2t.), By the Roving 

Engliflhman. 

101. Transatlantic Wanderings. 

By Captain Oldmizon. 

104. The Crimea and Odessa. By 
C. W. Koch. 

109. America and the Americans 
(U. 6d.). By W. E. Baz- 
ter, Esq. 

116. Uy Brother*s Keeper. By 
Miss Wetherell. 

120. Sebastopol: the Story of its 
Fall. By G. B. Emerson. 

122. Bobinson Crusoe (If. 6^^). 
By Daniel Defoe. 

180, 181. History of PhiUp the 
Second of Spain (2 vols, ii.) . 
By W. H. Prescott. 



46. XnglishTraits. By Emerson. 
60, 161. Charles the Fifth (2 vols. 

it.). By Robertson and 

Prescott. 

67. Moss Side. By M. Horland. 

69. The Mutiny in India, to 

Taking of Lueknow 



(1*. 6d.). 
r, the last 



70. Parthenia; or, 

Bays of Paganism (Is. Qd.), 
By E. B. Lee. 

78. BobertBums and Sir Walter 
Scott. Two Lives {Is. Qd.). 
By Rev. James White. 

74. The Boyal Princesses of 
England {2s.). By Mrs. 
Matthew Hall. 

78. Aldershott and all About It 

(2«.). Illustrated by Birket 
Foster. 

79. The Sepoy Bevolt {2s.). 

By Henry Mead. 

80. Wild Flowers, how to See 

and how to Gather them. 
With 171 Plates (2*.). 

82. Bats (with Anecdotes) (2s.). 
By Uncle James. 

84. Forest Life in Norway and 
Sweden {2s.). By the Rev. 
H. Newland. 

89. Marvels of Science {2s). 

By FuUom, with Guts. 

90. British Columbia and Van- 

couver's Island {Is. 6d.). 
By Hazlitt. 

98. Berby Ministry (The) 
(1*. ed.). By Mark Ro- 
chester. 

95. Eminent Men and Popular 

Books {28.). (From the 
Times.) 

96. Prescott'sPhilip the Second, 

Vol. 8 {2s.). 

97. Bums* Poetioal Works {2s.). 

Edited by Willmott. 



tt 



BOXTTLEDfiE'a USEFUL LIB&ASY. 



In feap. 8to, pffee U, each, doth limp) or boardt^.tinleif axprtwed* 

iZTU ^rtvoi cZMr^A of Awib qf a thoroughly praettcal nature, suitable to 
the toantt of that numerwtt cUut.who recMry with to become acquainted 
with eommoi^ ^thin^t, ha$ induced the Bvbli$hert to commence the 
XJti^ul .Library, 



r 



\ 



1. A NEW LETTER. WRITER, for the XJge. of Ladies and 

Gentlemen ; embodying letters on the simplest matters of life, and on various 
subjects, with appUcations f<» Situations, dec. 

2. HOME BOOK OP HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY ; or, Bo- 

mestic Hints for Persons of Moderate Income. Containing useful directions for 
the proper Labours of tlieKitelwo, the Heuse, the Laundry^ and the Dairy. 

3. LANDMARKS OP THE! HISTORY OP ENGLAND. 

By the Rev. Jamcs Whits, Author of '* The. EiAfateen Christian Centuries." 
le. eel 

4. LANDMARKS OF THE HISTORY OF GREECE. 

By the Rev. Jamkh Whixk, Author o£ ** ThA L«n4marJc«of £nglMd«" 1«. Gd. 

6. COMMON TfflNOS OF BYERY-DAY LIFE. A Home 

Book for Mothers and DaughtflM. By ^knb Bowman. 

GsMKiwu. CovTsMta:-»Household Ecooemy and', the DuUfs of a Wife and 
Mother— the Laundry— the Nursery— Health, and the Means to Presorve it- 
Management of Simple Disorders— Clothes : how to Wear, Make, and Pack them 
—and last, not least* liome Education^ 

6. THINGS WORTH KNOWING. By Martik Potlb, 

Aittthor of ** Rural Economy," "SiaaJl Farms," die., &c. 

OBMBaAL Coifmfra«<-lnf»nnation upon Home Employmentr^ood: Meat— 
Bread— Hunger and TmBit--Water— Fermented Liquors— Habitations— Bodily 
Exercise— Sports— Walking— Swimming— > Tea— GoAm— Suipw<— Soap — Indian 
Com— The Weather— Minerals— Medars—Ctold^SUver—Miningr^Money— Glass, 
&c— The Use and Abuse of» and the Culture of. Tobacco and Snuff. 

7. LAW OP LANDLORD AND TENANT (THxe), with a 

copious Collection of Uaefiul Forms. By W. A. Holpbwortb* Esq, (of Gray's 
Inn) , Barrister-at-Law. 

8. LIVES OF GOOD- SBRYANTS. By the Autfior of 

'* Mary PofrsLii." 

9. HISTORY OP PRANCE, FROM THE CONQUEST OF 

GAUL, BY THE ROMANS, TO THE PEACE OF PARIS, 1856. By Amkua 
B. BowAans. 

10. THE LAW OF WILLS, EXECUTORS, AND AD- 

MINISTRATORS, with a Copious Collection of Fonns* By W. A. Holds- 
worth, Esq. (of Gray's Inn), Barrister-at^Law. 



» I 



MRS. EUNDELL'S 



DOMESTIC COOKEEY; 



FORMED I'FON 



PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY, 



AND ADAPTED TO THE 



USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. 



(SSIfti) numerotm Illudtralion^. 



HE VIS ISO EDTTioy, WITH ADDrno?sS, 



LONDON: 
llOUTLEDGE, WARNES, AND ROUTLEDGK, 

PARRINGDON STREET. 
Ni:\V YORK: 60, WALKER STREET. 



\ 



£d/. c . J'>-r, 



iiimiiiii 

60007061 1L 

ADVEETISEMENT. 



As the fuUowing direationa were intended for the conduct 
of the families of the Authoress's own daughters, and for 
the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good figure 
with proper economy, she has avoided all eicessipe luxury, 
such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expenditure of largo 
quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes to 
keep up the price, and is no Iceb injurious to those who eat 
than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many 
receipts are given' for things, which being in daily use, the 
mode of preparing them may be supposed too well known to 
require a place in a Cookery-book ; yet how rarely do we 
meet with fine melted butter, good toast and water, or well- 
made coffee ! She makes no apology for minuteness in some 
articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does not 
write for professed cooks. This little work would have been 
a treasure to herself when she first set odt in life, and she 
therefore Lopes it may prove useful to others. In that ex- 
pectation it is given to the Puhhc ; and as she will receive 
from it no emolument will escape without 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS 



FOB THB USB 0? 



THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. 



In CYory rank, thoso deserve the greatest praise, wIlo best acquit 
llicrasolves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this 
line of conduct is not a matter of choice but of necessity, if wo would 
inaintnin the dignity of our character as rational beings. 

In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupa- 
tions stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, ^et, when 
neglected, they produce much human miser)r. There was a time when 
ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns ; but, in the 
present day, there are many who know nothing about them. Each of 
these extremes should be avoided : but is there no wav to unite in 
the female character cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? 
Happily tliere are still great numbers in every situation whose 
example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of 
ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the 
accounts of their house-steward ; and, by overlooking and wisely 
directing the expenditure of that part of their husband's income, 
which falls under their own immediato inspection, avoid the incon- 
venienoes of embarrassed circumstances. How much more neces* 
sary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes 
press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy ! 
There ought to bo a material difference in the degree of care which 
a person of a large and indei^endent estate bestows on money con- 
cerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances : yet both 
may very oommendaoly employ some portion of their time and 
thoughts on this subject. The custom of tho times tends in some 
measure to abolish the distinctions of rank ; and the education 
given to young people is nearly the same in all : but though the 
leisure of the higher may be well devoted to elegant accomplish- 
ments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, 
would better secure their own happiness and that of others con- 
nected with them. We sometimes bring up children in a manner 
calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that 
which it is likely they will actually possess : and it is in all cases 
worth the while of parents to consider whether the expectation or 
hope of raising their offspring above their own situation bo well 

I founded. 

I A 2 



4 MISCELLANEOUS OBSEBYATIONB. 

The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, however, is 
not here alluded to ; for a judicious improvement of both, united to 
firm and early-taught religious principles, would enable the happy 
possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would 
young ladies find domestic knowledge a burden, or inconsistent 
with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at 
a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be tire- 
Fome to a healthy child, the fault must be traced, to habits which, 
from many causes, are not at present favourable to the future con- 
duct of women. It frequently happens, that before impressions of 
duty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences ; and 
it ever after takes the lead ; thus, what should be only the embel- 
lishment, becomes the main business of life. There is no opportu- 
nitjr of attaining a knowledge of family managemcDt at school ; and 
during vacation, all subjects that might interfere with amusement 
are avoided. 

When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, re- 
turns to reside at her father s house after completino: her education, 
her introduction to the gay world, and a continued. couj*se of plea- 
sures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornnment of 
fiishionable circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) 
to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that means 
she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of 
her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, ond 
especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost always 
anxious to give their children such advantages of education as 
themselves aid not possess. Whether their indulgence be produc- 
tive of the happiness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by tlio 
effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has 
not produced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and re- 
spect to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to 
relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupation, 
before she enterea into the delusive scenes of pleasure presented 
by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon 
make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if re- 
straint did not give to the latter additional relish. 

If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a 
love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures.- To 
attend to the nursing, and^ at least early instruction of children, 
and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness ; to 
preside over the family and regulate the income allotted to its 
maintenance ; to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued 
by intercourse with a jarring world ; to be his enlightened com- 
panion and the chosen friend of his heart ; these, these are woman's 
duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a 
man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring 
his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one 
may truly say, " Happy the man who can call her his wife. Blessed 
are the children who call her mother." 

When we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abili- 
ties in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, ore we not 
ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being 



HISCELLAKEOtrS OBSERVATIONS. 5 

who placed her on earth to fuldl such sacred obligations, not to 
waste the talents committed to her charge. 

Wlien it is thus evident that the highest intellectual attainments 
may find exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daughter, 
the wife, the mother, and the mistress oi the house, can any one 
urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic emi)loy ? 
It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within 
the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim 
is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United 
with, and nerhaps crowning all the virtues of the female character, 
is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its 
attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to bo often 
scarcely less essential than the greater. 

Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a 
lady's concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectabi- 
lity of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those who 
partake tneir hospitality. 

The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the 
multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing, and the neat 
pleasing look of the whole, which pives respectability to her who 
presides. Too much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncom- 
mon ; the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty 
or penuriousncss to be genteel ; and the former, if constantly given, 
may endnnger the circumstances of those who are not affluent. 

Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than for- 
merly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now 
costs ; consequently those whose fortunes are not great, and who 
wish to make a genteel appearance, without extravagance, regulate 
their table accordingly. 

Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respectability of a 
man is more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which he 
accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he 
can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ougnt not to emulate the 
entertainments of the higher classes ; but, if two or three dishes are 
well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small 
sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the ex- 
pectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no 
irregularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social inter- 
course. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all 
situations of life, the entertainment snould be nd less suited to the 
station, than to the fortune of the entertainer and to the number 
and rank of those invited. 

The manner of carving is now not only a very necessary branch 
of information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but 
makes a coi^siderable difference in the consumption of a family ; 
and though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this 
knowledge apparently of less consequence, yet she must at times 
fcel the Qcficiency ; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an 
attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. 

Indeed, as fashions are so iieetiug, it is more than probable, that 
before. the end of this century, great attention to guests may be 
again thfi mode> as it was in the commencement of the last. Some 



6 IdSCELIAXSOUS OBSERYATIOKS; 

people baggie meat so much, as not to be able to help Lalf-a-doxcn 

Sersons decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and tlie 
ish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. 
If the daughters of the family were to taJce the head of the table 
under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties 
with grace, in the same easy manner ns an early practice in other 
domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. 
Habit alone can make good carvers ; but some principal directions 
are hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. 

The mistress of a family should always remember that the wel- 
fare and good management of the house de|>end on the eye of the 
superior ; and consequently that nothing is too trifling for her 
notice, whereby waste may be avoided; and this attention is of 
more importance now that the price of every necessary of life is so 
greatly increased. 

If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to think of 
family management, let her not upon that account fear that she 
cannct attain it : she may consult others who are more experienced, 
and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the several 
articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it con- 
sists of, the proper prices to pay, &o., &c. 

A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment 
should be taken in writing ; likewise an estimate of the supposed 
amount of each article of expense ; and those who are early accus- 
tomed to calculations on domestic articles, will acquire so accurate 
a knoMedge of what their establishment requires, as will give 
them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, with- 
out acquiring the character of meanness. 

Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful, as great 
readiness at figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not 
the smallest article omitted to be entered ; and if balanced every 
week and month, &c., the income and outgoings will be ascertained 
with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly observed. 
Some people fix on stated sums to be appropriated to each different 
article, and keep the money in separate ])urses ; as house, clothes, 
pocket, education of children, &o. Whichever way accounts be 
entered, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. 
Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their hus- 
band's income ; and others are only made acquainted with it, when 
some speculative project, or profitable transaction, leads them to 
make a false estimate of what can be afforded; and it too often 
happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squander 
money in ways that they would even wish to forget : whereas mar- 
riage should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, and simi- 
larity of pursuits, which would secure that happiness it was 
intended to bestow. 

There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it is 
a fair inference there would be few extravagant ones, were they 
consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual 
interest of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of 
these pages, many families have been reduced to poverty by the 
want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs; and 



mSOBLLlKBOTTS 0B8BBTATI0N8. 1 

though on these occasions the women were blamed, it has after' 
waras appeared, that they never were allowed to inquire, or suf- 
fered to reason upon what sometimes seemed to them imprudent. 

Many families nave owed their prosperity full as much to the 
propriety of female management, as to the knowledge and activity 
of the father. 

The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook, that her 
last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered ; 
— to which she replied : — ** Such is the sum I have allotted to house- 
keeping ; should it be exceeded one week, the next must pay for it. 
The General will have no public day this week." The fault was 
never repeated. 

March s '* Family Book-keeper " is a very useful workj and saves 
much trouble ; the various articles of expense beinp: printed, with 
a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount 
of expenditure on each, and the total sum majr be known. 

Ready-money should be paid for all such things as come not into 
weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. TTie best 
places for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a 
discount of Hye per cent, is allowed for ready-money in London and 
other large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. 
Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops ; but it is 
safest to deal with neople of established credit, who do not dispose 
of goods by underselling. 

lo make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, 
besides that a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles 
never bought are often charged, rerhaps the irregularit3r and 
failure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of 
various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many 
families from the highest to the lowest. 

Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will 
be known with ease ; for it is delay of payment that occasions con- 
fusion. A good common-place book should be always at hand, in 
which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, and other observa- 
tions, as are ^ven by sensible experienced people. "Want of atten- 
tion to what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be worth 
hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on neces- 
sary subjects among those who are not backward in frivolous 
oncs.^ 

It is verjr necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and 
goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as 
well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted 
with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be 
able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when they will 
answer as well for others of the same kind, but which are more 
costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase as bar- 
gains what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this 
error avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is 
not unusual among lower dealers to put off a larfjer quantity of 
goods, by assurance that they are advancing in price ; and many 
who supply fancy articles are so successful in persuasion, that pur- 
chasers not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, 



8 KISCELLA.KEOUS OBSERYATIOKS. 

even to their future disquiet. Some things are better for keepings, 
and, beii)<^ in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly; 
such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these more hereafter. 

To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted ; for people ought 
to form their conduct on their circumstances, but it is presumed 
that a judicious arrangement according^ to them will do found 
equally advantageous to all. The minutiae of management must be 
regulated^ by every one's fortune and rank ; and some ladies, not 
deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out, once in a 
month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household 
articles, as by observation and calculation they know to be suffi- 
cient, reserving for their own key the largo stock of things usually 
laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be 
several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increaso 
of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will be 
respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested 
in the ignorance of their employers ; and if they are, their services 
will not compensate for want of honesty. 

When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own 
maids in the capacity of house-keepers ; who, as tliey may be more 
attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable ser- 
vants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be 
as useful as the cookery ; and it is recommended to be strictly ob- 
servant of both, which in the course of time will make them familiar 
in the practice. 

It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the 
good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mis- 
tress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a 
strict account. 

Some part of every person's fortune should be devoted to charity ; 
by whion ** a pious woman will build up her house before God, 
while she that is foolish (t.c. lends nothing to the Lord), pulls it 
down with her hands." No one can complain of the want of gifts 
to the poor in this land : but there is a mode of relief which would 
add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from super- 
fluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense 
would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for 
preparing the above are ^iven. 

By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is moro 
regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in tlie 
morning, there will be more time to execute them ; and servants by 
doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will 
be necessary. 

It is worthy of notice that the general expense will bo reduced, 
and much time saved, if everything be kept in its proper place, ap- 
])lied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the acci- 
dent will allow, as soon as broken. 

If the economy of time was duly considered, the useful aflairs 
transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of 
employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done 
without hurry or fatigue ; and it would be a most pleasant retro- 
spect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. 9 

vnltiable acquirements made, and the good actions performed by an 
active woman. 

If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon 
family arrangement, it must bo by those who do not recollect that 
the regularity and good management of the heads will be insuffi- 
cient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It be- 
hoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his 
service ; to be very minute in investigating the character he re- 
ceives, and equally cautious and scrupulously iust in giving one to 
others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapaci- 
tated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It 
may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a 
milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to 
the charge of that roaster or mistress who knowing, or having well- 
founded suspicions of any such faults, is prevailed upon by false 
pity or entreaty, to slide him into another place. There are, how- 
ever, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to 
give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves 
their service : but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, ser- 
vants having no inheritance, and depending on their fair name for 
employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage 
the good servant, are actions due to society at large ; and such as 
are honest, frugal and attentive to their duties should be liberally 
rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with 
zeal to acquit themselves. 

It may be but proper to observe that a retributive justice usually 
marks persons in that station sooner or later even in this world. 
The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the in- 
dustry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially 
depends. Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come homo 
wheu they have children of their own ; and sometimes much sooner. 
They will see their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their 
offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example 
and instruction given by themselves. 

It was the observation of a very sensible and experienced woman, 
that she could always read the fate of her servants who married ; 
those who had been faithful and industrious in her service, con- 
tinued their good habits in their own families, and became respect- 
able menibersof the community : those who were the contrary, never 
were successful, and not unfreguently were reduced to the parish. 

A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, 
and more bought in before the others bo consumed, to prevent in- 
convenience, especially in the country. 

A bill of parcels and receipt should bo required, even if the 
money be paid at the time of purchase ; and, to avoid mistakes, let 
the goods be compared with these when first brought home. 

Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one's honesty, and 
perhaps mistakes have been unintentional, yet it is prudent to 
weigh meat, sugars, &c., when brought in, and compare with the 
charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with 
the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when 
the weekly bill shall be delivered. 



10 HIBCBLIiAKEOirS OBSEBTATIOITS* 

Muoh trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company, 
if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar 
order daily. 

All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness : sugars of 
different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and per- 
fectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles close 
corked ; not more than vnll be used in four or five weeks should be 
pounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole 
in gravies, &c. 

Where luncheons or suppers are served (and in every house some 
preparation is necessary &r accidental visitors) care should be taken 
to have such things in readiness as are proper for either, and a list 
of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, 
and if duly managed will be attended with little expense and much 
convenience. 

A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of 
bread, which when returned will show the number to be paid for ; 
as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. 

Those who are served with brewer's beer, or any other articles 
not paid for weekly, or on delivery, should keep a book for entering 
the dates ; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but 
will show the whole year's consumption at one view. 

An inventory of furniture, linen, and China, should be kept, and 
the things examined by it twice a year, or oftener, if there be a 
change of servants ; into each of whose care the articles used by 
him or her, should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with 
plate. Tickets of parchment, with the family name, numbered, 
and specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each 
feather-bed, bolster, i)illow, and blanket. £nives, forks, and house- 
cloths, are often deficient : these accidents mi^ht be obviated, if an 
article at the head of every list required the lormer should be pro- 
duced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though 
all the others should be worn out. The inducement to take care of 
glass is in some measure removed, by the increased price given for 
old flint glass. — Those who wish for trifle dishes, butter-stands, 
&c., at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, 
of which there is a great variety that look extremely weU, if not 
placed near the more beautiful articles. 

The price of starch depends upon that of flour ; the best will 
keep ^ood in a dry warm room for some years ; therefore when 
bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. 

SuGABs being an article of considerable expense in all families^ 
the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not 
go so far as that more refined ; and there is difference even in the 
degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, 
heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly 
look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India 
sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit 
for %vines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if 
good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it 
with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. 

Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, 



inscBLLijrBoirs obsxutatioks. il 

ond that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be hij^her, 
it will be prndeiit to lay in the stock of both. This information the 
ohandler can always g[ive ; they are better for keeping eight or ten 
months, and will not mjnre for two years, if properly placed in the 
cool ; and there are few articles that bettor deserve care in buy- 
ing, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the 
family. 

Paper imnroves by keeping, and if bought by half or whole reams 
will be mucn cheaper than if purchased by the quire. It is princi- 
pally made from rags, of whicn there is some scarcity, which might 
be obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to 
keep a bag to receive all the waste bit« from cuttings out, &c. 

Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of 
managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small 
family, besides causing the mistress of tho house much chagrin bv 
their irregularity ; ond many families, from a want of method, 
have tho appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To 
avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as econo- 
mical : — 

Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as 
much waste may thereby be avoided, viz.— 

Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded. — 
Meat in a cold dry place. — Sugnr and sweetmeats require a dry 
place ; so does salt. — Candles cold, but not damp. — Dried meats, 
hams, &c. the same. — Eicc and all sorts of seeds tor puddings, &o. 
should be closely covered to preserve from insects. 

Bread is so heavy an article of expense that all waste shoidd be 
guarded against ; and having it cut in the room will tend much to 
prevent it. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pons 
and covers keep it best. 

Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry to prevent a musty 
taste* 

Lar(^6 pears should be tied up by the stalk. 

Dasil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used 
when herbs aro ordered; but w^ith discretion, as they are very 
pungent. 

The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and 
lay them under the feather-beds that are in iise ; and they should 
be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not 
scoured. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should 
be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs 
and boiler ; and when the lather becomes weak, add more. The 
new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near 
half in quantity ; and though something dearer than tho hard, re- 
duces the price of washing considerably. 

Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the 
night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less 
friction. 

Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make 
a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or 
three weeks ; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break. 



12 MISCELLANEOtrs OfiSEKVATIOKS. 

Pat it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard 
gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. 

Some of the lemons and oranges used for luice should be 
pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be halved, and 
when squeezed, the pulp cutout, and tho outsides dried for grating, 
if for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these 
fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should he bought and prepared 
as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, 
where they cannot always be had ; and they are perpetually wanted 
in cookery. 

When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, con- 
trive to have pudding, custard , &c. to employ the yolks also. Should 
you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little 
water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and 
useless. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made 
cakes and puddings heavy ; on the contrary, if beaten long and 
separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advan- 
tage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in 
cream, &c. 

If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be 
charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to 
have them fresh done when the least defect appears, and never to 
put by any soup, gravy, &c. in them, or any metal utensil ; stone 
and earthen vessels should be provided for those purposes, as like- 
wise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to 
put by cold meat. 

Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes Fen- 
ders, and tin linings of flower-pots, &c., should be painted every 
year or two. 

Vegetables soon sour and corrode metals, and glazed red ware, by 
which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of 
several gentlemen was occasioned by the cook senuing a ragout to 
table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel 
badly tinned. 

Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead 
or arsenic. 

To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and 
wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in tho 
sun ; renew the process once or twice. 

The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone 
jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the vessel into a saucepan 
of water, called a water-bath. 

If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c., be suffered to boil over, 
the strength is lost. 

The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders ; 
for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift, without dispersing 
the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. 

Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, but must 
remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet, give a great 
degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing- stoves, 
and ovens. 



DIKECTIONS rOB CARYING, 13 

The cook should be charffcd to take care of jelly-bagra, tanes for 
the collared things, &c., which if not perfectly scalded, ana kept 
dry, 8:ive an unpleasant flavour when next used. 

Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will crack it. 

In the following:, and indeed all other receipts, though the quan- 
tities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must bo 
left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The ditfercnt 
tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, 
garlic, butter, &c., which can never be ordered by general rules ; 
and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her 
emplojrer's, not all the ingredients which natui'e and art can furnish, 
will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should 
be at hand, and she must proportion them until the true zest be 
obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes 
served at the same time. 

Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in this little 
work ; and where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being 
directed in 8tufla.ngs, the cook must use butter instead ; and where 
meat gravies (or stock, as they are called), are ordered, those made 
of fish must be adopted. 



' DIEECTIONS FOR CARVINa. 

TnE carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling 
size and tine edge. Strength is less required than address, in the 
manner of using it : and to facilitate this, the cook shall give orders 
to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase joints 
of mutton, lamb, and veal (such as neck, breast, and loin), which 
may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining 
bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should 
be too thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two 
bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, 
and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth ; 
ohserving to let the knito pass down to the bone in the mutton and 
beef joints, 

The dish should not be too far off the carver ; as it gives an awk- 
ward appearance, and makes the task more diflicult. Attention is 
to be paid to help every one to a part of such articles as are con- 
sidered the best. 

In helping fish, take care not to break Ihe flakes ; which in cod 
and very fresh salmon are largo, and contribute much to the beauty 
of its appearance. A fish-knife, not being sharp, divides it best on 
this account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. 
The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod 
and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be at- 
tended to accordingly. 

In cuttiug up any wild-fowl, duck, gooso, or turkey, for a largo 
party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion, without 
making wings, there will be more prime pieces. 



16 1HRECII0H8 FOR CAHTIKO. 

and dclicnte sUoes may be cut out on oaoh side the ridgo of tho 
blade-bone, in the direotion c, d. The line between tjieso tivo dotted 
lines, is thnt in the direction of which the edge or riiigcottlie btade- 
bonc )iu», and cannot be cat across. 

Leg of Mutton.— A lep- of wether mutton (which is the best 
flavonretl) may be kuo^n by a round lump of fit at the edao of the 
broadest part. The best 
TJart is in the niidwnj. at 
1, between the knuckle 
and farther end. liegin 
to lielp here, by outline 
thin deep fliees to c. if 

rthc outside is not fat 
enough, help some from 
F Uie aide of the broad end 
in eiiccs from e iof. 'J'his 
])art is tlie most juicy ; 
but many prefer the knuckle, which, in fine mutton, will be very 
tender though dry. Theie are very line slices on the back of 
the leg i turn it up, and cut the broad end i not in the direction you 
did the other side, but longways. To cut out the crnnip-bonc, take 
hold of the shank with your left band, and cut down to the thigh- 
bone.at d; then pass the knife under the cramp- bone on the direo- 
tion, d, g. 

A Fore Quarter of Iiamb.— Separate (he shouldrr from the 
BCOTen (whieh is tlie breast and ribs), by passing the knife under ia 
tlie direction of a, b,c,d; kcei'iiis- it towards you horizontally, to 
prevent cutting the meat 
"D much oif the bones, 
grasa-lnmb, the ahoul- 



11 



the juice of half olemon 

on the other part, and 

i- sprinkle a little salt and 

pepper. Then separate 

the giisfly pai't from the 

ribs in the line c, c ; and help either fioiu that, or from the ribs, 

as may be chosen. 

Haunch of Vonison.— Cut down to the bone in the lino a,b,c, 

in the figure, to let 

»OHt the gravy ; then 
turn the brood end 
of the haunch to- 
ivarda you, put in 
the knife at b, and 
cut as deep as you 
can to the end of the 
haunch d ; then help 
in thin slices, observ- 
1. Thoro is more fat (which is a 
c and d tliati on the other ; and 



maECTIOBS FOB CASTINd. 17 

those who help must tnko caro to proportion it, os likewise the graTj, 
according to the number of iho company. 

Haunch of Mutton is tlie leg and part of tho loin, ont bo ob to 
resemble hannch of vi'niKon, and is to bo helped at table in the same 

Saddle of Mutton.— Cut lon^ thin BHces from the tail to the 
end, beHunin!): close to tho backbone. If a largo joint, tho slice 
may be divided. Cut some fat from tho sides. 

Ham may bo cut three ways ; tho oomnioa method is, to 
begin in tlio middle, by long jr^-r?^^ n 

slices from o to 6, from the .^^ "^^^ 

eentre through the thick fot. j^^ ^^ir 

This brings to the prime at ^^ O. M^ ^^— ■->. 

plished by cutting a smttll ^^fe-_^^_ -^^^■1'^^ 
round hole ou the top of the ^^^^^^H^^^^ 

knife enlarging that by cut- 
ting suooessive thin cirolea ; this preserves the gravy and keeps 
the meat moist. 

The last and most saving iray is, to begin at the hock end, and 
proceed onwards. 

Ham that is used for pies, &a. shonld be cnt from the under side, 
6rst taking off a thick slice. 

Sucking P^.— The cook nsnolly divides tho body betbre 
it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the javra and 

Tho first thing is, to separate a. shoulder from the oaroase on one 
side, ond then the leg acooi'd- 
ing to the direction given by tl 
dotted lino a, 6, c. The ribs n. 
then to be divided into about , 
two helpings; arid snearcrjaw 
presented with them, and plenty 
of sauce. Tho joints may either 
bo divided into two each, or 
pieoes may bo cut from them. 

The ribs aro reckoned the finest part i but some people prefer 
thoneek end, between the shoulders. 

Q-oose.—Cut off the apron in the circular line a, h, c ; and pour 
into the body a glass of 
port wine ; and a large 
tea-spoonful of mnstaid, 
first mined nt the side- 
board. Tnrn the neck end of f 
the awose towards you, and I 
cut tho whole breast in 
long slices from one wing 
to another ; but only re- 
move them as you help each person, unless the company is so 
large as to require tho legs likewise. This way gives more 
prime bits than by making wings. Take off tho leg, by put- 




IS AiREcnoiTB ms CABTIHO. 

tins the tatk into the nnoU end of tbc bone, prcssmg it to 
the body, and liavinK passed the knife at d, tam the leg bitck, 
and if a jaan^ bird it will easily goranle. To t4Lke off the wins', 
put your fork into the nnoll end of the pinion, and press it dose to 
the body ; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joinL taking 
it down in the direction d, e. Nothing but practioe \nll enable 
people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and 
wing of oae side are done, go on to the other: but it is not often 
neoessory to out up the whole goose, unless the company be very 
large. There are two aide bones bj; the wing, which may be cut 
off, as likewise the back and lower side- bones ; but the best pieces 
are the breast, and the thighs after being divided from the drum- 
eticks. 

Hitre. — The best way of cutting it np is, to put the point of the 
knife under the shoulder at a, a&d so cut all the way down to the 
rump, on one aide of the back-bono, In Uie line a, b. Do the same 
on the other side, so 
that the whole hare will 
be divided into three 
parts. Cut the back 
into four, which witli 
the legs is the part most 

t esteemed. The shoul- 
der must be cut off in 
a circular line, as c, d, 
a; laythe pieces neatly 
on the dish as you cut 
then, and then help the company, giving some pudding and graTp 
to eTery person. This way can only be praotiaod when the hate 
is yonng; if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong 
arm ; but put the knife between the leg end back, and give it a 
little turn inwards at the joint, which you must endeavour to hit, 
and not to break by foroe. When both legs are taken off, there 
is a fine collop on each side the back, then divide the back into 
as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which 
are by many preferred, and are called the sportSiSan's pieces. 
When every one is helped, cut off the head, put your knife be- 
tween the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable 
you to lay the upper flat on your plate ; then put the point 
of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. 
The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like 

Curve Babbitfl as directed the latter way for hare ; cutting tlie 
back iutc t*o pieces, which with the legs ore the prime. 

A Fowl. — A boiled fowl's legs are bent inwords, and tucked 
into the beUy ; but before it is Served, the skewers ore to be re- 
moved. Lay the fowl on your plate, and place the joints, as cut off, 
on the dish. Take the wii^ off in the direction of a to b, only 
dividing the joint with your knife, and then with your fork hit up 
the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles 
wUl separate in a more complete form than if oat. Slip the knife 



teaU 
|dcr 



DIRECTIONS FOB CAKTIKO. 10 

between the lci; eud hoAj, and ant to the bone; then with the fork 

turn the leg baok, and the jointwillgive wayifthe bird U not old. 

When the four quarters aro thus remoTed, take off the menr- 

thoDght ftoni a uiid the neok-bonea; theM uktt b; putting in tne 

knife at c, and preraing it 

DiLder the long broad part 

of the bone in the liae e, h, . 

then lift it up, and break J 

it off from the part that ] 

sticks to the breast. The J 

next thing is, to divide the ' 

breast from tie oaroase, by 

cutting through the tender 

riba close to the breast rieht 

down to the tail. Then lay 

the back upwards, put yonr 

knife into the bone half-way tt^^^ 

from the neck to the rump, ^^^T 

and on raising the lower end ^w^afc^ .^^^^__ 

itwillseparatcreadily. Turn jf^ ^AB^to y^ 



therump from you, andTery 
neatly tjtke off the two sides- 
men, and the whole will be 
done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on 
the dish; and oars should be taken that what is left goes pro- 
perly from table. The breast and wings are looked upon as the 
best parts, but the lejs are most juicy in young fowls. After 
all, more advantoge will be gained by observing those who carve 
well, anil a little practice, than by any written directions 
whatever. 

A Pheasant.— The bird in the annexed WgtftTlng It as tmsted 
for the spit, with its head under one of 
its wings. When the skewers are taken 
out, end the bird served, the following is the 
way to carve it; — 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; | 

slico it down in the lines a. b; take off the ■ — - 

leg on one side in the dotted line b, d ; then 
cut off the wine on the same side, in the line 
c, d. Separate the teg and wing on the other 
side, and then cutoff the slices of breast yon 
divided before. Be careful how you take off 
the wings, for if you ahonld out too near 
the neck, as at g. you will hit on the neok- 
bone, from which the wing mnst be sepa- 
rated. Cut off the merrythought in the line 

/, g, by passing the knife under it towards the HetK, Cut 
the other parts aa in a fowl. The breast. Wings, alia taetry- 
thought ore the most esteemed i but the leg has B liisher 
flavour. , , 

FBTtridgd.— The partridge ts here reprelehtea oa jQst taken 



20 siBEcnoHa ros cabthto. 

fiom the spit; but before it is served up, the ekewcTS must be 
withdrawn. It ia cut up in the Barae laaa- 
ner aa u fowl. The wines muat be taken off 
|0 in the lines a, b, and tne meirythought in 
the liue c, d. The prime parte of a poi- 
irid|^ are the winj^, brcaet, and merry- 
thought. But tlie bird being small, the two 
latter are not often divided. The winfr is 
considered ns the best, and the tip of it reck- 
oned the most delicate morsel of the whole. 
Pigeona.— Cut tlicin in half, either from top to bottom or across. 
The Tower part is generally thought the beat: but the fairest 
wity is to out from the 
seek to a, ratherthuiL from 
c to 6, by 0, which is the 
most fashionable. The 
fifcure represents the baok 
" of the pigeon; and the di- 
rection of the knife is in 
the line c, b, by a, if done 
the last way. 




DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



FISH. 

To Choose Fish. 



TURBOT, if cood, should be tliick, and the belly of a yellow- 
ish white ; if of a bluish cast or thin, they are bad. They are in 
season the greatest part of the summer. 

Salmon.— If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particu- 
larly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just 
killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives 
great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is 
more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that 
caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and even preferred by 
some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. 

Cod. — The gills should be very red : the fish should be very 
thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. 
When flabbv they are not good. They are in season from the 
beginning of December till tne end of April. 

Skate. — If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh 
they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. 

Herrings. — If good, their gills are of a fine red and the 
eyes bright ; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff 
and firm. 

Soles.— If good they are thick, and the belly is of a cream 
colour : if this is of a bluish cast and flabby, they are not fresh. 
They are in the market almost the whole year, but are ia the 
highest i)erfection about midsummer. 

whitings. — The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked 
to, as in herrings ; they are in high season during the first three 
months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. 

Mackerel.— Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, 
and July. They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep 
worse than any other. 

Pike.— ^For freshness observe the above marks. The best are 
taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted 
to stuffing and sauce. 

Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get 
wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to pre- 
vent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other 
fish. 

Tenoh. — They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should 
be killed and dressed as soon as caught. When they are to be 
bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the 



22 TO CHOOSa PISH. 

eyes bright, and the body stiff. The tench has a slimy matier 
about it, the clearness and brightness of which show freshness. 
The season is July, August and September. 

Perch. — Take tjie general rules given to distinguish the fresh- 
ness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. 

Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have 
a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in 
the Thames and some other large rivers. 

Mullets. — ^The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the 
red to the grey. They should be xery firm. Their season is 
August. 

Gudgeons. — They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. 
They are taken in running streams ; come in about midsummer, 
and are to be had for five or six months. 

"EelB. — There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than 
of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so-called from the bright 
colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold 
at Billingsgate are very bad ; those taken in great floods are gene- 
rally good, but in ponds they have usually a strong rank flavour. 
Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. 

Lobsters.— If they have not been long taken, the claws will 
have a strong motion when you put your finder on the eyes and 
press them. The heaviest are the oest, and it is preferable to boil 
them at home. When you buy them ready boDed, try whether 
their tails are stifi*, and pull up with a spring ; otherwise that part 
will be flabb.v. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back 

Eart of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and 
ard ; but those of the hen are soil, and the tail broader. The 
male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh 
is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. 

Crabs. — ^The heaviest are best, and those of a middling size are 
sweetest. If light they are watery ; when in perfection the joints 
of the legs are stiff and the body has a very agreeable smell. The 
eyes look dead and loose when stale. 

Prawns and Shrimps.— Wlien fresh they have a sweet fla- 
vour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright. — Shrimps are of 
the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. 

Oysters. — There are several kinds ; the Pyfleet, Colchester, 
and Milford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, 
being white and fat ; but others may be made to possess both 
these qualities in some degree b.y proper feeding. When alive and 
strong the shell closes on the knire. They should be eaten as soon 
as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster 
is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. 

Flounders. — They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes 
bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both 
sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in 
season from January to March, and from July to September. 

Sprats. — Choose by the same rules as herrings. 

Observations on Dressing Fish.— If the fishmonger does 
not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done ; bat those in great 



TO OfiOOSB VISH, 23 

towiia waeh it beyond what is neoessary for cleaaingi and by per- 
petual watering diminish the fiavour. When quite clean, if to be 
boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water 
to give firmness, but Cod, Whiting, and Iladdock are far better 
if a little salted, and kept a day ; and if not very hot weather, they 
will be good two days. 

Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by taking more at 
a time than they want for one day, often p^et it cheap ; and such 
kinds as will pot or i^ickle, or keep by bemg sprinkled with salt 
and hung up, or by bemg fried will serve for stewing the next day, 
may then be bought with advantage. 

Fresh- water fish has often a muddy smell and taste, to take oif 
which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned : 
or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then dry and 
dress it. 

The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to 
do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part 
is done. ' 

Crimp fish should be put into boiling water ; and when it boils 
up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer 
it a few minutes. 

The fish-plate on which it is done ma^r be drawn up to see if it 
be ready ; it will leave the bone when it is. It should then be im- 
mediately taken out of the water, or it will soon be woolly. Tlie 
fish-plate should be set crosswise over the kettle, to keep hot 
for serving ; and a clean cloth to cover the fish to prevent it losing 
its colour. 

Small fish nicely fried, covered with eggs and crumbs, make a 
dish far more elegant than if served plain. Great attention should 
be paid to garnishing fish: use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and 
lemon. 

When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended 
to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed 
on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to 
every one. 

If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a nice soft 
cloth after it is well cleaned and washed. When perfectly dry, 
wet with an eg^ if for frymg, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of 
bread over it ; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the 
fish will look much better ; then, having a thick-bottomed frying- 
pan on the fire, with a large Quantity of lard or dripping boiling 
hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry middlingly quick, till the 
colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done 
enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook 
should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, 
and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept 
for that Durpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain ; and 
if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive 
the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs 
9>ppear distinct ; the fish being free from all grease. The same 
dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second tipie. Butter gives 



24 TO CHOOSE FISH. 

a bad colour ; oil fries of the finest colour for those who will allow 
the expense. 

Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, 
which must be thus done: When washed and picked, throw it 
again into clean water ; when the lard or dripping boils, throw the 

Earsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will 
e green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice ; tliis may 
be done after the fish is fried. 

If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, fioured, and put on 
a gridiron that is very clean ; which, when hot, should be rubbed 
with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be 
broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky ; and not 
too near, that it may not be scorched. 

TUBBOT.— To Keep Turbot.— If necessary, turbot will 
keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at 
first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold 
place. 

To Boil Turbot.— The turbot-kettle must bo of a proper gize, 
and in the nicest order. Set the fi^h in cold water sn^icicnt to 
cover it completely, throw a haudful of salt and a glass of vinegar 
into it, and let it gradually boil : be very careful that there fall 
no blacks ; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the 
colour. 

Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, 
and horse-radish. 

The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy butter, and 
plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. 
■ SALMON.— To Boil Salmon.— Clean it carefully, boil it 
gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the 
water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone, it is very un- 
wholesome. Serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce. 

To Broil Salmon. — Cut slices an inch thick, and season with 

Eepper and salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well 
uttered ; twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over 
a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy 
sauce. 

To Pot Salmon. — Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do 
not wash it; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and 
drained from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole 
pepper : lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it 
over with butter, and bake it ; when well done, drain it fi*om the 
gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with 
clarified butter. 

In this manner you may do any fii*m fish. 

To Dry Salmon.— Cut the fish down, take out the inside and 
roe. E-ub the whole with common salt after scaling it ; let it hang 
twenty-four hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt- 
petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and 
two ounces of coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed well, into tlie 
salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it 
well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be 



SALMON— COD. 25 

M to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a 
wood chimney, or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two small 
sticks. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed 
through, with e^g sauce and mashed potatoes ; or it may be boiled, 
especially the bit next the head. 

An excellent Dish of Dried Salmon.—Pull some into 
flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large ; put 
both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter 
rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim it and stir till boiling 
hot ; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a 
dish, and pour the above into it. 

To Fickle Salmon.— Boil as before directed, take the fiah 
out, and boil the liquor with bay leaves, peppercorns, and salt ; add 
vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the nsn. 

Another way.— After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, 
and divide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to 
fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts 
put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay leaves, six 
blades of mace, ana a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. When 
the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, 
then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, 
and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartl v 
flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil quick 
three quarters of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in 
something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully 
cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained 
from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. 

Salmon Collared.— Split such a part of the fish as may be 
suflicient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having 
mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace and Jamaica pepper, in 
quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Tlien 
roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third 
vinegar as will cover it, with bay leaves, salt and both sorts of 
pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and 
boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. 
It is an elegant di^, and extremely good. 

COD. — Some people boil the cod whole ; but a largo head and 
shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner 
parts being overdone and tasteless, before the thick are ready. 
jBut the whole fish may be purchased at times more reasonably , 
and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high per- 
fection in one or two days. Or it niay be made Salter, and served 
with egg sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. 

Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite 
fresh it is watery ; but eats excellently if salted and hung 
up for a day to give it firmness, then stuffed and broiled or 
boiled. 

Cod's Head and ShoiQders will eat much finer by having a 
little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if 
to be eaten the same day. 



26 C<>J)-HiTini9E0K. 

Tie it up and put it on the fire in cold water wliich will com- 
pletely cover it. Throw a handful of salt into it. Great care roust 
De taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. 
Garnish with a large quantity of double parslejr, lemon, horse- 
radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If 
with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the nsh ; or the 
beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve 
with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. 

Crimp Cod.— Boil, broil, or fry. 

Cod Sounds boiled. — Soak them in warm water half an hour, 
then scrape and clean ; and if to bo dressed white, boil them in 
milk and water ; when tender serve them in a napkin, with eeg 
sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for 
fricassee. 

Cod Sounds to look like small Chiokens.— A good 
maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and bou in 
milk and water, but not too tender ; when cold, put a forcemeat of 
chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, 
salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread it over the sounds, and roll 
up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them as 
you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a 
tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a flne oyster 
sauce. Serve for side or comer dish. 

To Broil Cod Sounds.—Scald in hot water, rub well with 
salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; 
take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season 
a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea-spoonful of soy, 
and a little mustard ; give it a boil with a bit of nour and butter, 
and pour it over the sounds. 

Cod Sound Bagout.— Prepare as above ; then stew them in 
white gravy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added 
before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nut- 
meg, and the least pinch of pounded mace should give the flavour. 

Ourrie of Cod should be made of sliced cod, that has either 
been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a 
fine brown with onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a 
little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or tour 
spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not 
hot enough. 

To Dress Salt Cod.— Soak and clean the piece you mean to 
dress, then lay it all night in water, with a glas^ of vinegar. Boil 
it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish: pour over it 
parsnips boiled, beaten into a mortar, and then boiled up with 
cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It 
may be served as above with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and 
the root sent up whole, or the fish may be boiled and sent up 
without flaking, and sauces as above. 

STUBGBOW.--T0 Dress Fresh Sturgeon.— Cut slices, 
rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, p^rslej^ 
pepper, salt ; fold them in paper, and broil gently. 

Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. 



SKATE— CAB?. 87 

To Boast Sturgeon.— Put it on a lark spit, then tie it on a 
large spit ; baste it constantly with butter ; and serve with good 
ffravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a 
glaes of sherry. 

Another way. — Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a 
stew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, 
some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a gkss of vinegar. 
Stir it over the fire till hot ; then let it become lukewarm, and steep 
the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, 
and roast jt without letting the spit run through. Serve with 
Borrel and anchovy sauce. 

An excellent Imitation of Fiokled Btnrgeon.-^Take a 
fine large turkey, but not old; pick it very nicely, singe, and 
make it extremely clean : bone and wash it, and tie it across and 
across with a bit of mat-string washed clean. Put into a very 
nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of 
white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handfm of salt ; boil 
and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done Plough tighten 
the strings, and lay upon it a disn with a weight of two pounds 
over it. 

Boil the liquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, put the 
turkey into it. This will keep some months, and eats more deli- 
cately than sturgeon ; vinegar, oil, and sugar are usually eaten 
with it. If more vinegar or salt should bo wanted, add when cold. 
Send fennel over it to table. 

Thornback and Skate should bo hung one day at least 
before they are dressed ; and may be served either boiled, or fried 



in crumbs, being first dipped in ega. 
Crimp Skate.— Boil and send 



up in a napkin J or fiy as 
above. 

Maids should likewise be hung one day at least. They may 
be boiled or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may bo 
boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and 
covered with crumbs. 

Boiled Carp. — Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which 
you will find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. 

Stewed Carp. — Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay 
the fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight 
cloves, a dessert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, tne same of black, a 
fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port (cyder may do) ; sim- 
mer close covered : when nearnr done add two anchovies chopped 
fine, a dessert spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut 
ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in fiour : shake it, and let the gravy 
boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe 
fried, and agood deal of horse-radish and lemon. 

Baked Garp.— Clean a large carp ; put a stuffing as for soles 
dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up ; brush it all over with 
yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs ; then drop oiled butter to 
baste them : place the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock 
(or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sliced onions, some Bay-leaves, a 
taggot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sor* 



28 TROTIT— MACKEREL. 

maijoram), lialf a i)int of port wine, and six anchovies, cover over 
the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be done before it is wanted. 
Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up 
the liquor with a goodpiece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonfiu 
of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve the 
fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, 
and put the gravy into the sauce-tureen. 

Perch and Tench.— Put them into cold water, boil them 4 
carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are a 
most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in 
stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. 

To Fry Trout and Grayling.— Scale, gut, and well wash ; 
then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the 
fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a &ne 
colour with fresh dripping ; servo with crimped parsley, and plain 
butter. 

Perch and Tench may be done the same vr&y. 

Trout a-la-Genevoise. — Clean the fish very well; put it 
into your stewpan, adding half Cbampagne and half Moselle, or 
Rhenish, or sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, 
a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme ; 
put in it a crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. Wlien 
the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken 
the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that 
your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, 
and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried 
bread. 

MACKEREL.— Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt ; 
or stuff* with the same, crumbs, and chopped lennel. Collared, 
as Eel, page 31. 

Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan -with spice, bay- 
leaves, and some butter ; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, 
and cover with butter. 

Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, 
bay-leaves, and some vinegar ; when cold, pour it over them. 

Pickled Mackerel, called Caveach.— Clean and divide 
them ; then cut each siae into three, or, leaving them undivided, 
cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take 
near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, 
and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder ; mix, and making 
holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each 
piece with some of it ; then fry them brown in oil ; let them stand 
till cold, then put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar ; 
if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be 
preserved for months. 

Red Mullet. — It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but 
leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gentb"^ bake in a small 
dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with 
a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a 



HADDOCK— riKK—SOLES. 29 

glass of sherry. Giro it a boil ; and serve in a boat, and the fish 
m the paper cases. 

To Dress Pipers.— Boil, or bake them with a pudding well 
seasoned. If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; 
and when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze 
of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce. 

To Bake Pike.— Scale it, and open as near the throat as .you 
can, then stuff it with the following : grated bread, herbs, anchovies, 
oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a ;^int of cream, four yolks 
of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it in the 
fish, and sew it up ; butter should be put over it in little bits ; 
bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. 

Note. — If in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit, and each slice gently 
drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. 

HADDOCK. — Boil ; or broil with stuffing, as under, having 
salted them a day. 

To Dry Hsuldook; — Choose them of two or three pounds 
weight : take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the 
blood from the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into 
the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night ; then hang 
them up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be 
fit to eat ; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over 
them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown 
enough. Serve with egg-sauce. 

Wliitings, if large, are excellent this way ; and it will prove 
an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply 
of fish. 

Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and Small Cod.— Take 
equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, 
thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented 
maijoram shred fine ; an anchovy or two ; a little salt and nulmeg, 
and some pepper. Oysters will be an improvement with or with- 
out anchovies ; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. 

SOLES.—If boiled, they must be served with great care to look 
perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. 

If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread ; 
set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a lar^e 
quantity of fresh lard or dripping, boil it, and immediately slip 
tne fish into it ; do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 28. 

Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil. Vinegar, salt, 
and mustard. 

Stewed Soles.— Do as Carp, page 27. 

Soles another way. — Take two or three soles, divide them 
from the backbone, and take off" the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle 
the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, 
and fasten with small skewers. It large or middhng, put half a 
fish in each roll : small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of 
eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the ecg over them again, 
and then put more crumbs ; and fry them a T)eautiful colour in 
lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. 



80 SOIfiS— PLAICE— SBL9. 

0ole8 in the Portuguese way.— Take one large or two 
small: if large, cut the fish in two; if Bmall, they need only be 
split. The bones being taken out, ])ut the fish into a pan witli a 
bit of butter and some lemon juice, give it a fry, then lay the fish cm 
a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, 
fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a 
small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs 
over ; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat^gravy, 
a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine and some 
parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, 
and bake till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then 
place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep 
them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed ; if not enough, a 
little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to 
it. 

Portuguese Stuffing for Soles Baked.--Pound cold beef, 
mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been 
lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garhc or shi^ot, 
some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; pound all fine 
with a few crumbs, and oind it with two or three yolks of eggs. 

The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, 
and kept on the outer side of the roU ; and when served the heads 
are to be turned towards each other in the dish. 

Garnish with fried or dried parsley. 

An excellent way of Dressing a Large Plaice, espe- 
cially if there be a Boe.— Sprinkle .with salt, and keep twenty- 
four hours ; then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, and 
cover with crumbs of bread ; znake some lard or fine dripping, and 
two large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot ; lay the fish in, and 
fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried 
parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in 
vinegar, and not put it into the pan. 

To Fry Smelts.-— They should not be washed more than is 
necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth ; then lightly flour 
them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into 
bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boil- 
ing lard ; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will 
make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the 
light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty wiU be lost. 

EELS.— Spitchcook Eels.-^-Take one or two large eels, 
leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inches long, open 
them on the belly side, and clean them nicely : wipe them dry, 
and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace 
pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. B,ub the gridiron 
with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with 
anchovy and butter for sauce. 

Fried Eels.— If small, should be curled round and fried, being 
first dipped into eger and crumbs of bread. 

Boiled Eels«^The small .ones are best: do them in a smal 



quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which ahould be 
served up with them and the liquor. 

Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 

Eel Broth, yery I^'ourishing for the Sick.— Do as above $ 
but stew two hours, and add a onion and pepper-corns : salt to 
taste. 

Collared Eel.— Bone a large eel, but do not skin it : mix pepper, 
salt, mace, allspiee, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, 
and rub over the whole inside ; roll it tifl:ht, and bind with a coarse 
tane. Boil in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when 
cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. 
Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thvme, knotted maijoram, and 
savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. 

To Stew ILampreY as at Worcester.— After cleaning the 
fish carefully, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and 
season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and 
all-spice; put it into a small stew-pot, with very strong beef- 
gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry. 

It must be covered close ; stew till tender, then take out the 
lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or 
three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the 
gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mus- 
tard. Serve with sippets of bread and norse-radish. 

Eels, done in the sa.me way, are a good deal like the lamprey. 
When there is spawn, it must be fried and put round. 

Kote. — Cyder will do in common instead of white wine. 

PLOUNBERS,— Let them be rubbed with salt inside and 
out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them 
into egg ; cover with crmnbs, and fry them. 

Water Souchy.— Stew two or three flounders, some parsley- 
leaves and roots, thirty pepper-corns and a quart of water, till the 
fish are boiled to pieces ; pulp them through a sieve. Set over the 
fire tiie pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, 
flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley ; 
simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Shces 
of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the 
souchy. 

HBBBIKGS AND SPRATS.— To Smoke Herrings. 
—Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one night; 
then hang them on a stick, through tlie eyes, in a row. Have 
ready an old cask, in which put some sawdust, and in the midst 
of it a heater red-hot ; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them 
remain twenty-four hours. 

Fried Herrings.— Serve them of a light brown, with onions 
sliced and fried. 

Broiled Herrings.— Flour them first, and do of a good 
colour : plain butter lor sauce. 

Potted Herrings are very good done like Mackerel, see 
page 28. 

To Dress Bed Herings.— Choose those that are large and 



82 8PBAT8— LOBSTSnS— HACESREL. 

moist, cnt them opeD, and pour some boiling small beer orei* them 
to soak lialf an hour; drain tliem dry, and make them just hot 
through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and 
serve. Eg^ sauee, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes should 
be sent up with them. 

Baked Herrings and Sprats.— Wash and drain without 
wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few 
whole cloves ; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an 
onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and liaiF small 
beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and 
bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over them tlie 
night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open 
them. 

Sprats.— When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a 
skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot 
and hot. 

liOBSTEHS AND SHRIMPS —To Pot Lobsters.— 
Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with 
mace, white pepper, nutmeg and salt, press close into a pot and 
cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in.. When 
cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of 
the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the 
spawn : then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be 
sufficient to cover the pots and strain it. Cayenne may be added, 
if approved. 

Another way to Pot Lobsters, as at Wood's Hotel. — 
Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remove 
the gut ; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, 
nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest 
powder. Jjtxy a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the 
iobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with 
)utter, and bake gently. When done pour the whole on the 
jottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, 
some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour 
clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day ; or 
highly seasoned, and thickly covered with butter, will keep some 
time. 

Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream - 
sauce : it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if 
there is spawn. 

Mackerel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted as above. 

Stewed Lobster, a very high Relish.— Pick the lobster, 
put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down 
with a bit of butter, two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, 
or walnut-ketchup, a httle salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of 
port ; strew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above^ 

Buttered Lobsters.— -Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm 
with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, 
with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. 

To Boast Lobsters.— When you have half boiled the lobster, 
take it out of the shell, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay 



IOBSTEES—CHABS— OYSTERS. 3d 

it before the iirc. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine 
froth. 

Currie of Lobsters or Prawns.— Take them from tho 
shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four 
spoonfuls of real-gravy, and four of cream : rub smooth one or 
tvro tea-spoonfuls of currie-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an 
ounce of butter : simmer an hour ; squeez3 half a lemon in, and 
add salt. 

Prawns and Crav-flsh in Jelly, a beautiful Dish.— 
Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a deep 
small dish ; when cold, lay the cray-fish with their backs down- 
wards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. 

To Butter Prawns or Shrimps. — Take them out of the 
sheila, and warm them with a little pood gravy, a bit of butter 
and fioui*, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; simmer a minute 
or two, and serve with sippets ; or with a cream-sauce instead of 
brown. 

To Pot Shrimps.— When boiled, take them out of the skins, 
and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace 
and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, 
and when cold put butter. 

CBABS. — Hot Crab.— Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the 
shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonfuls of 
vinegar, into the shell af^ain, and set it before the fire. Dry toast 
should be served to eat it upon. 

Dressed Crab Cold.— Empty the shells, and mix the flesh 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne ; then 
put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil. is 
necessArv 

OYST!ERS.— To Feed Oysters.— Put them into water, 
and wash them with a birch-besom till quite clean ; then lay them 
bottom-downwards in a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and 
salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will 
fatten. The water should be pretty salt. 

To Stew Oysters.— Open and separate the liquor from them, 
then wash them from the grit : strain the liquor, and put with the 
o.vsters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. 
Simmer them very gently, and put some cream and a little flour 
and butter. Serve with sippets. 

Boiled Oysters.— Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned 
first, and serve in them, to eat with cold butter. 

To Scallop Oysters.— Put them with crumbs of bread, pep- 
per, salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, 
and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. 

Fried Oysters, to garnish Boiled Fish.— Make a batter 
of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into 
it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be 
put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

Oyster Sauce.— See Sauces. 

Oyster Loaves.— Open them, and save the liquor ; wash th — 

c 



34 TO CHOOSE HEATS. 

in it; then strain it througli a sieye, and put a litUe of it into a 
tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of 
nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; put ihsm 
into rolls sold for the purpose. 

Oyster Patties.— See Patties. 

To Fickle Oysters.— Wash four dozen of the largest oysters 
you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor 
off, adding to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a 
table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white 
wine, and four of vinegar. Simmer the oysters a few minutes in. 
the liquor, then put them in small jars, and boil the pickle 
up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters : coyer close. 

Another way to Pickle Oysters.— Open the number you 
intend to pickle, ^ut them into a saucepan with their own liquor 
for ten minutes, simmer thcnx yery gently ; then put them into a 
jar, one by one, that none of the grit may Stick to them, and cover 
them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with. 
a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hun- 
dred put two spoonfuls of the best imdistilied vinegar. 

They shouldlbe kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, 
for the air will spoil tuem. 

JVote. — ^Directious for making Fish Fies will be found under the head Fi^ . 



MEATS. 
To CItoose Meats, 



VEWISON.— If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the 
cleft part smooth and close, it is young ; but if the cleft is wide 
and touch, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp 
narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by 
the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haul- 
gout. 

Beef.— If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine 
smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fafc 
should look white rather than yellow, for when that is of a deep 
colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-ca,kes is in general 
so, and the flesh is flabby. The crain of cow-beef is closer, and 
the fat whiter than that of ox-beei, but the lean is not of so bright 
a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and 
skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is 
the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small fami- 
lies, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old 
meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef : the harder this 
is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. 

Veal.— The flesh of a buU-calf is firmest, but not so white. 
The fiUetof the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The 
whitest is not the most juicy, havmg been made so by frequent 
Meeding and having had whitinff to lick. Choose the meat of 

hich the kidney is well covered with thick white fat. If the 



TO CHOOSn MEATS. ^5 

Moody rein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a briglit red, it is 
newly killed, but any other colour shows it stale. The other part 
should bo dry and white ; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale 
and bad. The kidn^ turns first in the loin, and the suet will not 
then be firm. 

Mutton.— Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, 
and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young ; if of a 
good breed and well fed, it is better for age, but this only holds 
with wether-mutton ; the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture 
finer. Ham-mutton is very strong-flavoured, the flesh is of a deep 
red, and the fat is spongy. 

Lamb.-^Observe the neck of a fore-quarter ; if the vein is 
bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. lu 
the hind- quarter, if there is a faint smell under the- kidney, and 
the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the 
head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May 
and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great 
towns almost all the year, but is in the highest perfection in De- 
cember and January. 

Pork.— Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If the rind 
is tough, thick; and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is 
old. A thin rmd is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh 
will be smooth and cool ; if clammj'', it is tainted. What is called 
measly pork is very imwholesome, and may be known by the fat 
being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork 
feed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat 
being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. 

Bacon.— If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the 
lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you ma^y 
conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it 
is going, if not alreadv rusty. 

Hams. — Stick a sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out 
with a pleasant smell, the ham is good : but if the knife is daubed 
and has a bad scent, do- not buy it. Hams short in the hock are 
best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any prepara- 
tion of pork. 

Brawn. — The homy part of young brawn will feel moderately 
t-ender, and the flavour wiU be better ; the rind of old will be 
hard. 

Observations on Porchasingy Keeping, and Dressing 
Meat.— 'In every sort of provisions, the Best of the kind goes 
farthest : it cuts out with most advantage, and aflbrds most 
nourishment. Bound of beef, flUet of veal, and leg of mutton, are 
joints that boar a higher price ; but as they have more solid meat, 
they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that 
those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably ; and, 
being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn ; for, when they 
are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these 
come lower. 

In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone shoidd be 
taken out, as it is apt to taint ; as also the kernels of beef. Eum£ 



36 OS K£EPIKO HEAT. 

and aitchbones of beef arc often bruised by tlio blows the drovers 
give the beasts, and the part that has been struck always taints ; 
therefore do not purchase these joint* if bruised. 

The shank-bones of mutton should be saved ; and, after soaking 
and crushing, may be added to give richness to gravies or soups. 
They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. 

When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part 
of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarifv. 

Dripping will baste everything as well as butter, except 
fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be 
used. 

The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding 
than suet. 

Meat and vegetables that the frost has touch3d, should be 
soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if 
they are much iced. Putting them into hot w ater, or to the fire, 
till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them pro- 
perly afterwards. 

In warm weather, meat should be examined when it comes in j 
and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well 
washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat 
that is to be salted lie an hour in very cola water, rubbing well 
any part likely to have been fly-blown ; then wipe it quite dry, 
and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing 
a handful oyer it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle 
in, which will make it ready for the table in three or four days. 
If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well-floured cloth, after 
rubbing it mih salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for 
the table the day it comes in, but it must be put into the pot whcu 
the water boils. 

If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two 
or three days before it is salted. 

The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent 
soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. • 

Eoast beerbones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine peas-soup ; 
and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the 
fat may be taken off. 

In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. 
The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before 
directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces 
of charcoal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm 
weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and 
bring it early in the morning ; but even then, if it is kept on the 
road while ne serves the customers, who live nearest to him, 
it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the 
country. 

Wash all meat before you dress it : if for boiling, the colour \^ ill 
be better for soaking ; but if for roasting, dry it. 

Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. 

Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the 
moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the 



OV DBKSSIKO HKAT. 37 

meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and 
cleaner they will be. 

The boiler, &c., should be kept delicately clean. 

Put the meat into cold water, but flour it well first. Meat 
boiled quick will be hard : but care must be taken that in boiling 
slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. 

If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; there- 
fore, when you wish it to boil away take off the cover of the 
soup-pot. 

V ep^etables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots 
or parsnips with boiled beef. 

As to tne length of time required for roasting and boiling, the 
size of the ioint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, tho 
jioamess of the meat to it, and in boiling, the re^rular though slow 
progress it makes ; for if the cook, when fold to hinder the 
copper from boiling quick, let it stop from boiling up at all, tho 
usual time will not be sufficient, and the meat will be under- 
done. 

Weigh the meat ; and allow for all solid joints a quarter of an 
hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, 
according as the family like it done. 

A liam of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and 
others in proi)ortion, 

A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after soak- 
ing ; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three 
houre, or more if very large ; it must be judged by feeling whether 
it is very tender. 

A leg of pork, or of lamb, t^es the allowance of twenty minutes, 
above a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and 
a half; twenty pounds wul take about three hours and three 
quarters. 

A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a 
projjer distance. A chine of pork two hours. 

The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and 
brought gradualij' nearer when the inner part becomes hot, 
which will prevent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat 
should be much basted ; and, when nearly done, floured to make 
it look frothed. 

Veal and mutton should have a little paper i)ut over the fat to 
preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for oasting, good dripping 
answers as well as butter. 

The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best 
parts ; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the 
time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many 
joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for 
some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat ; and the 
cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with ; for want 
of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of 
serving. 

In roasling meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and 



88 yjBKISOV. 

water into the drippinff-pan, and baate for a little while with this, 
before using its own Tat or dripping. When, dry, dost it with 
flour, and baste as usual. 

Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy : it 
should only be sprinkled when almost done. 

Time, distance, basting oflen, and a clear fire of a proper size 
for what is required, are the first articles of a good oook j atten- 
tion in roasting. 

Old meats do -not require so much dressing as young ; not that 
they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy 
more in. 

A piece of paper should be twisted round the bone at the 
Lnuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when 
roasted, before they are served. 

When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them 
twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough 
to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must 
always be boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, &c., are put in, 
and kept so till finished ; a small quantity never fries well. 

To Keep Meat Hot.— It is to take it up when done, thoug^h 
the company may not be come ; set the dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and 
then throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the 
gravy. 

VENISON.— To Keep Venison,— Keep the venison dry, 
wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean 
cloths till not the least damp remains ; then dust pounded ginger 
over every part, which is a very good preventive against the fly. By 
thus managing and watching, it will bang a fortnight. When to 
be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and di^ it. Pepper 
is likewise good te keep it. 

To Dress Venison. — ^A haunch of buck will take three hours 
and a half or tliree quarters roasting ; doe, only three hours and a 
quarter. Venison should be rather under than over done. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter and put it over the 
fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt ; then lay a coarse paste on. 
strong paper and cover the haunch, tie it with fine packthread, 
and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. 
Baste it often ; ten minutes before serving take c4ir the paste, draw 
the meat nearer the Gie, and baste it with butter and a good deal 
of flour to make it froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish 
(unless the venison has none), and made thus :— Cut ofi* the fat 
from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in 
steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side ; put 
them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover close for an 
hour, and simmer it gently ; then uncover it, and stew till the 
gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. 

Currant jelly sauce must be served in a boat. 

Formerly pap sauce was eaten with venison ; which, as some 

ill like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grat^ white bread and 




I. Rirloln. 8- Telny TIks- 1 11- Hidilla I 

t. Rdge Bmu, a. Thin Flaoli. ' | IX Bhouldei 



o7*ail".' W. C 




I.T^nn. B«ttETir1. 0. Neck.Beel End. I.Lec. 

l.l.uiii.ChumpKnd.r.MfFk.eirratrRnd. t. Loin. Bmt Emi 
i. Pillet. H. BiudD Bono. 3. Loin, Chum pEr 

i. lUnil KDDckle. ». Breasl, BeK Eotl. 4. N«ck, Be»t End 
(.PrnKnucltle 10. Bieasi.BnakeiEnd.' E. Neck.acraifGr 



40 TENI80H— BEEP. 

boil it with port wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon ; and 
when quite smooth talceout the cinnamon and add sugar. Claret 
may be used for it. 

Make the jelly sauce tbus. Beat some currant jelly and a 
spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. 
Where jelly runs short, put more wioe, and a few lumps of sugar^ 
to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve \i ith French beans. 

Haunohy Neck, and Shoulder of Venison.— Boast with 
paste as directed above, and the same sauce. 

To Stew a Shoulder of Venison,— Let the meat hang till 
yon think fit to dress it ; then take out the bone, beat the meat 
with a rolUng-pin, lay some slices of mutton fiit that have lain a 
few hours in a little port wine, sprinkle a little pepper and allspice 
over it in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. bet it in a stew- 
pan that will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy not 
strong, half a pint of port wine, and some pe^er and allspice. 
Simmer it close-covered, as slow as you can, for three or four 
hours. When quite tender take off the tape, set the meat in a 
dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant jelly sauce. 
This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, 
and then it should be roasted. The bone should be stewed 
with it. 

Breast of Venison.— Do it as the shoulder, or make it into 
a small pasty. 

Hashed Venison should be warmed with its own gravy, or 
some without seasoning, as before ; and only warmed through, 
not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat, 
set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till 
dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the 
venison. 

For Venison Pasty look under the head Pasts y ; as likewise 
an excellent imitation. 

BEEP.- To Keep Beef.— The butcher should take out the 
kernels in the neck-pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, 
two from each round of beef, and one in the middle, which ia 
called the pope's eye ; the other from the flap : there is also one in 
the thick nank, in the middle of the fat. if these are not taken 
out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping 
the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the ramp and tlio 
aitchbone. 

As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook 
should take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such 
beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for 
roasting. 

The flesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of 
food, soon spoils. They should fast twenty-four hours in winter, 
and double that time in summer before being killed. 

To Salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately— The 

piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very 

thoroughly just before you put it into the pot, take a coarse cloth. 

^our it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a 



SALT DKEF— BEEF X-LA-HODE, 41 

pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other 
salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or 
five days. 

Great attention is requisite in salting meat ; and in the countiy, 
where large quantities are cured, this is of particular importance. 
Beef and pork should be well sprinkled, and a few hours after- 
wards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with salt ; which method 
by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from 
tasting strong. It should be turned every day ; and if wanted 
soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting- tub or lead may be 
used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt 
meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and 
when cold, pour it over meat that has beensprmkled and drained" 

To Salt Beef Bed, which is extremely good to eat 
fresh from the Pickle, or to hang to Dry .—Choose a piece 
of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), 
BX^rinkle it and let it drain a oay ; then rub it with common salt) 
saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, 
and you may add a few grams of cochineal, all in fine powder, 
llab the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn 
it. It will bo excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from 
the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated 
with wood, or send it to the bake-house. A few days will smoko 
it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. 
It eats well boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to bo 
grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely 
tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold fold 
it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two 
or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. 

The Dutch Way to Salt Beef.— Take a lean piece of beef; 
rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. 
In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre 
beaten fine : riib these well in, and turn it every day for a fort- 
night. EoU it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large 
weight ; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down 
every day. Boil it in pump water, and press it i it will grate or 
cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. 

Beef a-la-mode. — Choose a piece of tliick flank of a fi ne 
heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free 
from yellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick : dip them into 
vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black 
pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with parsley, 
chires, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as 
possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep 
enough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with the sea- 
soning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot 
over a fire or rather stove ; three or four onions must be fried brown 
and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head 
or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer 
gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the 
meat twice. 



42 TmOAXVEkV OF 3SSF— STEWED BITMr. 

Pat the ffravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, 
then put them together, and add a f^has of port wine. Take off 
the tape, and serve with the vegetables ; or you may strain them, 
off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, 
and then stewed with the gravy, are a great improvement. A 
tea-cupfol of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. 

A Frioandeau of Beef. — Teke a nice piece of lean beef, lard it 
with bacon seasoned with pepi>er, salt, cloves, mace, and allapice. 
Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white-wine, 
a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a 
shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is 
become tender, cover it dose ; skim the sauce well, and strain it : 
set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. 
Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel- 
sauce. 

To Stew a Biunp of Beef.— Wash it well and season high 
with salt, aUspioe, pepper, Cayenne, three cloves, and a blade of 
mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot 
that will just hold it. Fry three lar^e onions sliced, and put 
them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a 
blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef- 
broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as nossible for several 
hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat; ada to the gravy half 
a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of 
ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve hi a deep dish. Half a 

Eint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be 
umet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny- 
royal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them; 
but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the 
several sorts ; let there be a ^ood handful all together. 

Garnish with carrots» turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles 
of different colours, out small, and laid in little heaps separate ; 
chopped parsley, chives, beetroot, &c. If, when done, the gravy 
is too much to nil the dish, take only a part to season for serving, 
but the less water the better ; and to increase the richness, add a 
few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stewing. A spoonful or 
two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Eump 
roasted is excellent, but in the country it is generally sold whole 
with the aitchbone, or cut across instead of lengthwise, as in 
London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing 
or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large 
to dress together. 

Stewed Bump another way.— Half-roast it ; then put it 
into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one 
of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of 
ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet^ 
tarragon, parsley, thyme, bapil, pennyroyal, savoury, marjoram, 
knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cjoves, 
jind Cayenne ; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender ; two 
or three hours will do it. When done, lay it into a deep disli, set 
^ orof hot w^ter« and cover it close. Skim the gravy : put in a 



3IES9 £K laSOTOV'-HfmXBft'S BSIF. 43 

few pickled mnshTOonui, truffles, morelB, and oysters if sffreeable, 
but it is ^ood without ; tliicken the gravy with flour ana butter, 
and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat- 
balls of yeal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, 
to bind, are a jpreat improvement. 

Beef en Miroton.— Out thin slices of cold roast beef and put 
them into a fryina-pan with some butter, and six onions, turn the 
pan frequently, then mix a little broth, add pepper and salt, and 
eSter a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and econo- 
mical. 

To Stew BriBket of Beef.— Pat the part with the hard fat 
into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water ; let it boil up, and 
skim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and 
a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender, then take out the 
flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Servo that and 
the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone and the meat on a dish, 
garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much 
admired, served with the beef: — Take half a pint of the soup and 
mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt ; 
boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. 
Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and 
chives or parsley, small, and put into separate heaps over it. 

To Press Beef- Salt a bit of brisket, the thin part of the 
flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre Ave days, 
then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great 
weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. 

It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. 

To meike Hunter's Beef.--To a round of beef that weighs 
twenty-flve pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces 
of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce 
of allspice, and three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest 
powder. 

The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the abovo 
well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. 
Tlie bone must be taken out at first. When to be dressed, dip it 
into cold water, to take ofl* the loose spice, bind it up tight with 
tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the 
bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan 
with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. 
When cold, take off the paste and tape. 

The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the 
. flavour of any hash, soup, &c. 

Both the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The meat 
should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to pre- 
vent waste. 

An excellent Iffode of Dressing Beef.— Hang three ribs 
three or four days : take out the bones from the wliole length, 
sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothipg 
can look nicer. The above done with spices, ^c, and baked fu; 
huntov'? bocf, is cxcellent'r 



44 BEEF STEAICS A5B OT8TEB-8ArCX— BEEF COLLOP. 

To Collar Beef.— Choose tlie thin end of the ilAQk of €ne 
mellow beef, but not too fat; lay ifc in a dish with salt and salt- 
petre, turn and rub it ever^ day for a week, and keep it cool. 
Take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside 
part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small : a 
large handful of par8ley,*the same of sa^e, some thyme, maijoram, 
and pennyroyal, pepper, salt and aUspice. Holl the meat up as 
tight as possible and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eighfc 
hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef 
under a good weight while hot, without undoing it ; the shape 
will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled m with the beef, 
looks and eats very well. 

^ Beef Steaks should be cut from the rump that has hung a few 
days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire : put into the 
dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup ; and 
rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should 
be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either 
side. 

This dish requires to be eaten hot and fresh-done, and is not in 
perfection if served with anything else. Pepper and salt skould 
be added when taking it off the fire. 

Beef Steaks and Oyster Sauce.— Strain off the liquor 
from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the 
grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lexnon- 
peel ; then put the oystei*8 in, stew them a few minutes, add a 
little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of 
flour : let them boil up once, and have rump steaks, well seasoned 
and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster sauce over the moment 
you are to serve. 

Stafifordshlre Beef Steaks.— Beat them with a rolling-pin, 
flour and season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown ; 
lay the steaks in a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over 
them as will serve for sauce ; stew them very gently half an hour, 
and add a spoonful of ketchup or walnut-liquor, before you 
serve. 

Italian Beef Steaks. — Cut a fine large steak from a rump 
that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender i)art : beat 
it, and season with pepper, salt, and onion ; lay it in an iron stew- 

gan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the 
re without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a 
strong heat : in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and 
then serve with its own gravy. 

Beef Collop.— Cut thin slices of beef from the i*ump, or any 
other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long ; 
beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the 
coUops quick in butter two minutes ; lay them into a small st«w- 
pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter 
rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine 
as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, and a tea- 
spoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil, and 
serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. 



B£EV fAIATES— BEEP CAS£8~*BS£9 OLtVES. 4^ 

Beef Palates.— Simmer them for several hours, till they will 
peel ; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you 
choose, and stew them in a rich ^avy till as tender as possible. 
Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. 
If the gravy was drawn dear, add also some butter and flour. 

If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in a 
fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, mushroom powder, 
and a little pounded mace. 

Beef Cakes for a Side Dish of Dressed Meat.— Pound 
some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon or ham ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlic ; mix them well, and 
make into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide a.nd 
thick ; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick 
gravy, 

To Pot Beef. — Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with salt- 
petre, and let it be one night ; then salt with common salt, and 
cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, 
and season with black pepper ; lay it in as small a pan as will hold 
it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool 
oven. Put no li<][Uor in. 

When cold, pick out the strings and fat ; beat the meat very 
"fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not 
oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste ; put 
it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. 

Another way .— Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled 
or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few 
cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter just warm. 

This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way 
for using the remains of a large joint. 

To Dress the Inside of a Cold Sirloin of Beef.— Cut 
out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick as your finger, 
and two inches long : dredge it with flour, and fry in butter, of a 
nice brown ; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a 
rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do 
not let it boil on any account. Before you servo, add two spoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. 

Fricassee of Cold Hoast Beef.— Cut the beef into very 
thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into 
quarters, and put all together into a stew-pan, with a piece of 
butter tmd some strong broth : season witli salt and pepper, and 
simmer very gently a quarter of an hour ; then mix into it the 
yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; 
stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee 
into it. 

To Dress Cold Beef that has not been done enough, 
called Beef Olives.— Cut slices half an inch thick, and lour 
inches square : lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, 
a little suet or fat, pepper and salt, lloll them, and fasten with a 
small skewer ; put them into a stew-pan with some gravy made of 
the beef bones, or the ^avy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of 
water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. 



46 ttAtttXD HJSSl^nESF i-LA-tlKQBtttlS. 

To Dress the same, called Sanders.— Mince beef or 
mutton small, with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little grarv; 
put it into Bcallop-sliells or fiaucers, making them three parts full, 
and fill them up with potatoes, mafihed with a little cream ; pnt a 
bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven or before the 
fire, or with a saUmander. 

To Dress the same, called Cecils.— Mince Any l^ind of 
meat, crumbs of bread, a Rood deal of onion, some anchovies, 
lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, and a bit of 
butter warm, and mix tikese over a fire for a few minutes ; when 
cool enough, make them up into balls the size and shape of n 
turkey's egg, with an egg ) sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and 
then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before 
directed for Beef Olives. . 

To Mince Beef.— Shred the underdone part fine, with some 
of the fat ; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot 
(a ver^ little will do), a hfctle water, pepper, and salt ; boil it till 
the onion is quite soft ; then put some of the gravy of the meat to 
it, and the mmce. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish M-itli 
sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a 
large spoonful of vinegar with it : if shaiot-vinegar is used, there 
will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. 

To Hash Beef. — ^Do it the same as in the last receipt, only 
the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut- 
liquor or ketchup. 

Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they 
get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, 
should be only simmered ; and this last only hot through. 

Beef a-la-Vingrette. — Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef 
three inches thick and a little fat ; stew it in half a pint of water, 
a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay 
leaf: season it with three cloves pounded andpepper, till the 
liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve 
it. Strain off the . gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for 
sauce. 

Bound of Beef should be carefully salt«d, and wet with the 
pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be rut out first, the 
beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be 
stuffed with parsley, if approved ; in whicli case the holes to admit 
the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the 
parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils 
it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling yery gently. 

Boiled Beef that equals Hare.— Take the inside of a large 
sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mited, 
for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it 
up tight. Soast it on a hanging spit, and baste it with a glass of 
port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of 
pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour : 
serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jeUy and melted- 
butter, in tureens. 

To Boast Tongue and Udder.— After cleanmg the tongue 



well, salt it with commou salt and saltpetre three days, then boil 
it, and likewise a fine young udder With some fat to it, till tole« 
rably tender ; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the 
other, and roast the tongue and udder together. 

Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. A few 
cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. 

Some people hke neat's tongues cured with the root, in which 
case they look much larger ; but otherwise the root must be cut 
off dose to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away 
the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and 
water, and extremely well cleaned, before it is dressed; and 
the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before 
pickled. 

To Piokle Tongues for Boiling.— Cut off the root, but 
leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it 
drain from the slime till next day : then for each tongue mix a 
large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and 
about half as much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every 
day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed 
every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only 
turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without 
being too salt. 

When you dry tongues, write the date on a parchment and tie 
it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you Eke best. 

When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; allow 
Sc7e hours, and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer 
kept after drying, the higher it will be : if hard, it may require 
soaking three or four hours. 

Another way. — Clean a« above : for two tongues allow an 
ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-prunella; rub them well. 
In two days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, 
turn them every dav for three weeks, then dry them, rub bran 
over them, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. 
Keep in a cool diy place. 

To Stew Tongue.— Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common 
salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to 
peel : when done, stew it in a moaerately strong gravy ; season 
with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt 
if necessary. 

Serve with truffles, morels, and muslirooms. In both this re- 
ceipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before 
salting, but some fat left. 

An excellent way of doing Tongues to eat Cold.-- 
Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay- 
salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fort- 
night ; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, 
and lay some butter on it ; cover it with brown crust, and bake 
slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. 

The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like 
hung beef, an4 also makes a fine addition to the flavour of 
omelets. 



48 STKWEO Ol-CQEEK— MA&B0W-S0KE6--TBIPE. 

Beef-heart.— "Wash it carefully; stuiFas hare; and serve with 
rich gravy and carrant-jelly sauce. 

Hash with the same^ and port wine. 

Stewed Ox-cheek Plain.— Soak and cleanse a fine check the 
day before it is to be eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover 
close, with three quarts of water : simmer it after it has first 
boiled up and been well skimmed. In two hours put plenty of 
carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
wliole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often ; when 
the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup get cold, take off the 
cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. 

It should be of a fine brown ; which may be done by burnt 
sugar; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and sim- 
mering them with it. TJiis last way improves the flavour of all 
soups and gravies of the brown kind. 

If vecetables are not approved in tlie soup, they may be taken 
out, ana a small roll be toasted, or bread fried and added. Celery 
ia a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not 
to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled iu 
and strained off. 

To Bress an Ox-cheek another way.— Soak half a head 
three hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat ofi' 
the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. 

Lay the bones on the top ; pour on two or tliree quarts of water 
and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit 
close. Let it stand eight or ten hours m a slow oven ; or simmer 
it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, 
put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake 
of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what 
vegetables you choose. 

Marrow-bones.— Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them 
and serve with dry toast.^ 

Tripe may be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onicn 
till tender. ^ Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in butter. 

Or stew the tliin part, cut into bits, in gravy ; thicken with flour 
and butter, and add a little ketchup. 

Or fricassee it with white sauce. 

Soiised Tripe.— Boil the tripe, but not quite tender ; then 
put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it 
IS nil used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into a batter of flour 
and egffs, and fry it of a good brown. 

Ox-feet or Cow-heels. — May be dressed in various ways, and 
are very nutritious in all. 

Boil them ; and serve in a nai)kin, with melted butter, mustard, 
and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown fncassce ; 
the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relishing, and likewise 
give richness to soups or gravies. 

Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then'flc ur 



TEAL— KNUCKLE OP TEAL— SHOULDEB OF TEAL. 49 

and fry them ; and fry onions (if you like them) to serTO round. 
Sauce as above. 

Or bake them as for mock-turtle. 

Bubble and SqueaJc.— Boil, chop, and fry with a little butter, 
pepper, and salt, some cabbage, and lay on it slices of undcrdono 
beef, liffhtly fried. 

VBAL.-~To Keep Veal.— The first part that turns bad of a 
leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. Tlie skewer 
should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped 
every day, by which means it will keep gooa three or four days 
in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs aloDg 
the chine of a loin of veal, as 3^ou do of beef, to hinder it from 
tainting. The skirt of a breast of veal is likewise to be taken oiT; 
and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with 
a little salt. 

Leg of Veal. — Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits 
the number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the sxMtce 
with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round ; and send 
the large side uppermost. When half-roasted, not before, put a 
paper over the fat ; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and 
put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is solid : serve 
witli melted butter poured over it.— You may pot some of it. 

Knuckle of Veal. — As few people are fond of boiled veal, it 
may l)e well to leave the knuckle smaU, and take ofi* some cutlets 
or collops before it be dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep longer 
than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. 
Break the bones, to make it take less room ; wash it well ; and 
put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, 
and a few pepper-corns: cover it with water^ and simmer till 
qiiito ready. In the meantime some maccaroni should be boiled 
with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give it a small 
degree of tnickness ; but do not put too much. Before it is served, 
add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with 
or without the meat. 

Or, fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a good 
brown ; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or 
two, stewed in a small quantity of water an hour : then add these 
to the veal ; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but 
not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred meat, and 
serve all together. 

Shoulder of Veal.— Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. 
Boast the other part with stuffing : you may lard it. Serve with 
liielted butter. 

The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, cats ex- 
tremely well with mushroom or oyster sauce, or mushroom 
ketchup in butter. 

WeckofVeal.— Cutoff the scrag to boil, and cover it with 
onion-sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and 
butter may be served with it, instead of onion sauce. 

Or, it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper 
corns, with a very little water. 



I 



50 KECK OF VEAt l-Ll-BRi.I8E'-BBXA9f OV ¥EAL. 

Or, boiled and eaten with baoon and greenu. 

The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made 
into pies. 

Neck of Veal a-la-braise.— Lard the best end with bacon 
rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it 
into a tosser, and cover it with water. Jrut to it the scraff end, a 
little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, 
and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it ouick two houra or 
till it is tender, but not too much. Strain on the liquor : mix a 
little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal in 
this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the 
fire till it gets coloured : then lay it into the dish, stir some of the 
liquor in and boil it up, skun it nicely, and squeeze orange and 
lemon-juice into it. 

Breast of Veal. — ^Before roasted, if larffe, the two ends may 
be taken off and fried to stew, or the wnole may be roasted. 
Butter should be poured over it. 

If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into 
a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it, or if you have no brotJi, 
a little water will do : add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of 
mace, some pepper, and an anchoTy ; stew till the meat is tender, 
thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup ; or the 
w hole breast may be stewed, after cutting ofi* the two ends. 

Serve the sweetbread whole upon it, eitner stewed or parboiled, 
and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and 
browned in a Dutch oven. 

If ^ou have a few mushrooms, troffles, and morels, stew tUcm 
with it, and serve. 

Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion sauce, is an 9Koel- 
lent dish, if not cold nor too fat. 

To Roll a Breast of Veal.— Bone it, take off the thick skin 
and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it m ith 
herbs chopped ver.v flue, mixed with salt, pepper, and maoe. J^ay 
some thick slices of fine ham ; or roll into it two or three oalvi\s* 
tongues of a flue red, boiled first an hour or two and skimmed. 
Bind it up tight in a clotli, and tape it. Set it over the fire to 
simmer in a small quantity of water till it is quite tender ; tliis 
will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and 
weight on it till qnite cold. 

Pigs' or calves' feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be 
put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look w<?ll 
when cut ; and you may put in yolks of egg boiled, beet-root, 
grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. 

Another way.— when it is cold, take off the tape, and pour 
over it the liquor 5 which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will 
not keep. 

Chump of Veal a-Ia-daube.— Cut off the chump end of the 
loin ; take out the aitch-bone ; stuff the hollow with good Ibrcc. 
meat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you 
took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, 
a few white peppers, and a pint of good yeal-broth. .Cover the veal 



TEAL ROaCitS— HIHCXD YBAZ.-— CVTLmS ICAIirTENON. 51 

^tb aHoes of fat baeon and lay a abeet of wbite paper over it. 
Cover the pan close, simmer it two bours, tben take out the bacon, 
and glaze tbe veal. Serve it on mosbroomsi or with sorrel sauce, 
or what else yon please. 

Veal BollB of either Cold Meat or Fresh.— Cut thin slices ; 
and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little 
chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and 
fihalot (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms 
stewed and minced), pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded 
mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll Hke a sausage, 
or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, 
and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. 

Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. 

Hairico of Veal. — Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the 
bones short, but leave it whole : put it into a stew-pan, just cover 
with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint 
of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage* 
lettuces cut into quarters, all fltewed in a little good broth ; put 
them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the 
veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay 
the lettuce with fbrcemeat-bv^lls around it. 

A Dunelm of Cold Veal or Fowl.— Stew a few small mush- 
rooms in their own liquor and a bit of butter, a quarter of an 
hour $ mince them very small, and add them (with their liquor) 
to mince veal, with also a little pepper and salt, Fome creani and a 
bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of fiour. Sim- 
mer three or four minutes, and serve on thm sippets of bread. 

Minced Veal. — Cut cold veal as nne as possible, but do not 
chop it. Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of 
nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak 
broth, milk, or water ; simmer these ^entlv with the meat, but 
take care not to let it boil, and add a bit of butter rubbed in fiour. 
Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape 
round the dish. 

To Pot Veal. — Cold fillet makes the finest pptted veal; or you 
nii^ do it as follows ; — 

Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some 
mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves ; lay it close into a 
potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake 
itthree hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt 
to taste : put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding^f to 
be eaten soon ; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When 
done, cover it over with butter. 

To Pot Veal or Chicken with Ham.— -Pound some cold 
veal or white of chicken, season as directed in the last article, and 
put lavers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred ; press 
each down and cover with butter. 

Cutlete Maiptenon.— Cut slices about three quarters of an 
iooh thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on botli 
aides witb egg : dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, pars- 
leyi thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, Bait, and a littlo nutmeg 

n 2 



62 VEAL COLLOPS— PHICANDEAU OP VEAL. 

grated ; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them ; 
and have in a Doat melted batter with a little mnshroom-ketehup. 

Cutlets another way. — Prepare as above, and fry them ; 
lay them into a dish, and keep them hot ; dredge a little floor, 
and put a bit of butter into the pan ; bi*own it, then pour a littie 
boiling water into it, and boilquioK : season with pepper, salt, and 
ketchup, and pour over them. 

Other ways. — Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a 
Dutch-oven ; pour over them melted butter and mushrooms. 

Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck-steaks. Tliey 
are excellent with herbs. 

Veal Oollops. — Cut long thin collops ; beat them well ; and lay 
on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat 
on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. 
Boll them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more 
than two or three inches long ; put a very small skewer to fasten 
each firmly ; rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a 
rich brown gravy over. 

To Dress Collops Qiiick.--Cut them as thin as paper with 
a ver.v sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skm, and any 
odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and 
salt ; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip 
them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape 
of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put some butter into 
a fryinff-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry ; for as they 
are so tnm, twxy minutes will do them on both sides : put them into 
a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, pve 
it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the collops. A little 
ketchup is an improvement. 

Another way. — Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt 
and penper ; simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with 
bits of bacon served with them. 

If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. 

Scallops of Cold Veal or Chicken.— Mince the meat 
extremely small ; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmej?, 
a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes : 
then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of 
bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before 
the fire. 

Either veal or chicken looks and oats \^ell prepared in this way, 
and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried ; or these may be 
put on in little heaps. 

Frioandeau of Veal.— Cut a large piece from the fat side of 
*he leff, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad ; beat 
it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough 
edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Lay it in the stew-pan with piec^ of 
undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sHced, a faggot of 
sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay leaves, a pint of gockl 
real or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham Or^anA- 
mon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three lionrs; 



VKAL OLIVES— TEAL CAKES— SCOTCn COLLOPS. 68 

then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil 
it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze 
it i and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel 
sauce in a sauce tureen. 

A Cheaper, but equally good Fricandeau of Veal.— 
With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best 
end« scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and pre- 
pare it the same way as in the last receipt : three or four bones 
only will be necessary, and thejr will make the gravy ; but if the 
prime part of the leg is cut off*, it spoils tho w hole. 

Fricandeau another way.— Take two large round sweet- 
breads, and prepare them as you would veal ; make a rich gravy 
w ith truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms, and 
serve it round. 

Veal OUves.— Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them 
tliin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat sea- 
soned high, with some shred shalotand Cayenne. Boll them tight, 
about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches 
long; fasten them round witli a small skewer, rub egg over them, 
nncl fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which 
boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresh.. Garnish with balls 
fried. 

Veal Cake.— Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, 
and lay some of the pieces in tne bottom of the pot ; shake in a 
little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, and then eggs 
again ; shaking in alter each some chopped parsley, with pepper 
and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, 
ond lay on it about an ounce of butter ; tie it over with a double 
paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together 
with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. 

It may be put into a small mould : and then it will turn out 
beautifully for a supper or side dish. 

Veal Sausages. — Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat 
bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few ancho- 
vies. Beat all in a mortar : and when used roll and fry it, and 
serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white 
ooUops. 

Scotch Collops. — Cut veal into thin bits about three inches 
over, and rather round ; beat with a rolling pin, and grate a littlo 
nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk of an egg ; and fry them in 
a little butter of a fine brown ; pour the butter off*, and have ready 
warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter 
rubbed into a Httle flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of cream, 
aud a bit of salt. Do not boil the sauce, but stur it till of a fine 
thickness to serve with the collops. 

. . To Boil Calf's Head.— Clean it very nicely, and soak it in 
.water, that it may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, 
and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the heacTextremely 
tendor ; then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and 
bro^vin them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plam. Serve ba'' 
and greens to eat with it. 



6i HASHED calf's head— galv's Iiead fkicasseed. 

The brains musfc be boiled ; and then mixed with melted butter, 
scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. 

If any of the head is left, it maj be hashed next day, and a few 
slices of bacon, just warmed and put round. 
- Cold calf 8 head eats well if grilled. 

To Hash Oalfs Head.— When half-boiled, cut off the meat 
in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long: brown 
some butter, flour, and sliced onions, and throw in the slices ,wiUi 
some gpod grayy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skim it 
well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. 
Season with pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at flrst ; and ten minutes 
before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit 
of tarragon and knotted maijoram cut as fine as possible ; just 
before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat-balls, 
and bits of bacon rolled round. 

Another way.— Boil the head till done, and take the meat of 
the best- side neatly ofi'the bone with a sharp knife j lay this into 
a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover 
it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and 
salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish 
before the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts 
of the head may be equally brown. In the meantinie sHco the 
remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue : 
put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch 
of herbs (consisting of parsley, btisil, savoury, tarragon, knotted 
marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt ana Cayenne, a shalot, 
a §flass of sheny, and a little oyster liquor. Boil this for a few 
nnnutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged 
with some flour. Add some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, a 
few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup ; then beat 
lip half the brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and 
flour. Simmer the whole. 

Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little 
nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in 
little cakes of a beautiful yellow brown. Dip some oysters into 
the yolk of an egg, and do the same ; and also some relishing force- 
meat-balls made as for mock turtle. Garnish with these, and snudl 
bits of bacon just made hot before the tire. 

Oalf' s Head Pricasseed.— Clean and half-boil a head ; cut 
the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy- 
made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any- 
young cockrels in the house, use the cockscombs ; but first boil 
them tender and blanch them ; or a sweetbread will do as well. 
Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down 
some flour and butter, and give all a boil together ; then take out 
the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil 
it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. 

To Collar a Calf's Head.— Scald the skin ofl" a fine head, 
clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to 
^emove the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped 



llOClt TtTATtl!. 55 

barsle^r^ mace, mitmeg, salt, and tthite pepper, mixed well ; season 
ft hi^li with these j lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity 
of thick slices of fine ham« or a beautifully-coloured tongue skinnerf, 
atid then the yolks of six nice yellow egp^s stuck here and there 
about. Eoll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. 
Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the 
tape, as for other collars. 

Mock Turtle. — Bespeak a calfs head with the skin on, cut it 
in half, and clean it well : then half boil it, take fill the meat off 
iu square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some 
real and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in 
butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the »ravy : stir this 
into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skin it carefully, 
and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and 
simmer it till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before 
you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne, 
pepper, and salt to your taste ; also two spoonfuls oi mushroom 
ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze thejuice of a lemon into the 
tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat balls, and small 
eggs. 

A Ohqaper way.— Prepare half a calfs head, without the 
skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones^ af)d put 
them into a saucepan with some ^avy made of beef and veal 
bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. 
Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, 
and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into 
pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and 
onion, and pour the cravy to it ; then add the meats as above, and 
stew. Hair a pint ot sherry, an anchovy, two spoonfuls of walnut 
ketchup, the same of mushroom ketchup, and some chopped herbs 
as before. Balls, &c. 

Another. — Put into a pan a knuckle of veaJ, two fine cow- 
heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, 
and sweet herbs ; cover them With water, then tie a paner over the 
pan, and set it in an oven for three hours. When cold, take off 
the fat very nicely ; cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a 
half square, remove the bones and coarse parts, and then put the 
rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mush- 
room ketchup, half a pint oi sherry or Madeira wine, a little 
mushroom powder, and the jelly of the meat. When hot, if it 
wants any fnore seasoning, add some ; and serve with hard eggs, 
forcemeat balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. 

This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent. 

Anothei*.— Stew a pound and a half of scrag of mutton, with 
from three pint* of water to a quart : then set the broth on, with 
a calfs-foot and a cow-heel, cover the stew«pan tight, and simmer 
till you can get off the meat from the bones in pToper bits. Set it 
oft again with the broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine, or 
slierry, a large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne paper^ a bit 
of lemon-peel, two anchovies, some sweet herbs^ eighteen oysters 
tui into pieces, and then chopped flue, a tea-spoonfulof salt, alitt^ ~ 



66 SWEETBBEABS—KIBKSYS^POBK. 

nutmeg, and tlie liquor of the 03r8ters. Cover it tight, andeiniinor 
three quarters of an hour. Serve with forcemeat balls, and hard 
cg^s in the tureen. 

An excellent and very cheap mock turtle maybe made of two or 
three cow-heels baked with two pounds and a half of gravy beef, 
herbs, &c., as above with cow-heels and veal. 

Calf's I*ivep. — Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and 1ml 
nicely : rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. 

Calf's Liver Roasted.— -Wash and wipe it ; then cut a long 
hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, 
herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a oit of butter, 
and an egg : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal- 
cawl, and roast it. 

Serve witli a good brown gravy, and currant jelly. 

To Dress the Liver and Lights.— Half- boil an equal 
quantity of each, then cut them in miadling-sized mince, put to it 
a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, 
salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. 

Sweet-breads. — Half boil them, and stew them in a white 
giavy ; add cream, flom', butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. 

Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. 

Or ijarboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, herbs, and 
seasoning, 6nd brown them in a Dutch oven. Servo with but- 
ter, and mushroom ketchup or gravy. 

Sweet-breads Roasted.—- JParboil two large ones ; when cold, 
lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For 
sauce, plain butter, and mushroom ketchup. 

Sweet-bread Ragout. — Cut them about the size of a walnut, 
wash and dry them, and fry them of a fine brown ; pour to thom 
a good gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either 
mushrooms, or mushroom ketchup : strain, and thicken with but- 
ter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mu6h- 
rooms. 

Kidneys. — Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat ; likewise a 
little leek or onion, pepper, and salt ; roll it up with an egg into 
balls, and fry them. 

Calfs heart, stuff and roast as a beef's heart, or sliced, make 
it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. 

PORKy &c. — Bacon hogs, and porkers are differently cut up. 

Hogs are kept to a large size ; the chine (or backbone) is cut 
down each side, the whole length, and is a prime part either boiled 
or roasted. 

The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut 
out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a 
large spare-rib ; which is usually divided into two, one sweet-bone 
and a blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside ; and contains a 
fore \eg, and a ham ; which last is the hind-leg, but if left with the 
bacon, is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog'slard 
is the inner fat of the bacon hog. 

Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as baeoA. 

Porkers are not so old as hogs : their flesh is whiter and less 



BOAST LEO OF FOBK— LOIN AITO KECK OF FOUX. d7 

richi bat it is not so tender. It is divided into four qoariers. Tlie 
fore-quarter has tlio sprinp^ or foro-lcff, the fore-loin or neck, the 
spare-rib and griskiu. Tlic hind has the leg and the loin. 

The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should be cut 
off before the legs are cured. Observe the same of tlie ears. 

The bacon hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, and 
sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. 

To Roast a Leg of Fork.— Choose a small leg of fine young 
pork ; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife : and nil tlic • 
space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. 
When half-done, score the skin m slices, but do not cut deeper than 
the outer rind. 

Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. 

To Boil a Leg of Fork. — Salt it eight or t«n days : when it 
is to be dressed, weigh it, let it lie hsdf an hour in cold water to • 
make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and 
half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it 
boils, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save some of 
it to make peas soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured ; 
\^ hich ^ives a very delicate look. It should bo small and of a 
fine gram. 

Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 

LoizL and Keck of Fork.— Eoast them. Cut the skin of 
the loin across, at distances of half an inch, with a sharp pen- 
knife. 

Shoxilders and Breasts of Fork.~Fut them into pickle, or 
salt the shoulder as a leg : when very nice, they may be roasted. 

Boiled Neck of Fork.— -Bone it ; put a forcemeat of chopped 
sage, a vciy few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three 
berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as 
you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. 

Spring, or Forehand of Fork.— Cut out the bone ; sprinkle 
salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside ; but first warm a 
little butter to baste it, and then fionr it : roll the pork tight, and 
tic it J then roast by a hanging jack. About two hours will 
do it. 

Spare-rib should be basted with a very little butter and a 
little fiour, and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled. Apple 
sauce and potatoes, as for roasted pork. 

Fork Griskin is usually very hard ; the best wa:v to prevent 
this iS) to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it 
boil up ; then instantl;^ take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven ; 
a yevy few minutes will do it. Bemember to rub butter over it, 
and wien fiour it, before you put it to the fire. 

Blade-bone of Fork is taken from the bacon hog : the less 
me(^t;left on it in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and 
when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, 
and ^, tea-spoonful of mustard : and serve it covered, quickly. 
This is a Somersetshire dish. 

Tq Dress Fork as Lamb.—Eill a young pig of four or five 
moiUus old i cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as yon do 



lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts will make dell* 
cate pickled pork ; or steaks, pies, &c. 

Pork Steaks. — Cut them' from a loin or neck, and of mid- 
dling Ihickuess ; pepper and broil them, turning them oftca ; 
^\ hen nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve 
the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. 

To Pickle Pork.--The quantities proportioned to the mid- 
dlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and slioulders being cut off. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of 
coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt ; 
Bpr inkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty -four hours : then 
3! lb with the above ; puck the pieces tight in a sniaU deep tub, 
filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on 
the pork to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which the salt 
\> ill produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two 
years. 

Sausages.— Cheip fat and lean of pork together ; season it with 
sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or tlu'ee berries of 
nlispice; half fill hogs' guts that have been soaked and made ex- 
Ircmely clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely 
covered : and so rolled and dusted with a very little fiour before 
it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage, or mashed potatoes put 
in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above : 
they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, ot they 
will burst. 

An excellent Sausage to eat Cold*— Season fat and lean 
pork, with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in 
fine powder, and rub into the meat : the sixth day cut it small 
and mix with it some shred shalot or garlic, as fine as possible. 
Have ready an ox- gut that has been scoured, salted, ana soaked 
}\ ell, and fill it with the above stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hang 
it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two 
of old muslin. Itmiistbe high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, 
but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in difiTerent 
places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. 

Spadbury's Oxford Sansages.—Chop a pound and a hidf 
of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; add 
tliree quarters of a pound of beef-sUet ; mince and mix them ; 
steep the crumb of a penny loaf in water, and mix it with the 
meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. 

To Scald a Sucking Pig.— The moment the pig is killed, 
put it into cold water for a few minutes, then rub it over with a 
little resin beaten extremely small, and piit it into a pail of scald- 
ing water half a minute ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off 
the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off, put 
it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, 
and then in two ot three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin 
may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint ; make a slit 
down the belly, and take out the entrails ; put the liver, heart and 
lights to the feet. Wash tlie pig well in cold water, dry it 
thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. 



To Boast a Sucking Fig.— If you can get it when junt 
killed, this is of great advantage. Let it ho scalded, which the 
dealers usually do ; then put some sage, orumhs of bread, salt, and 

gepper into the belly, ana sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs 
ack, or the under part will not crisn. 

Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry, then hare ready some 
butter in It dry cloth, and rub the piff with it in every part. 
Dredge as much flour over as will possiblv He, and do not touch it 
again till ready to serve; then scrape off the flour very carefully 
with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take 
off the head while at the fire ; take out the braius and mix them 
with the ^avy that comes from the pig. Then take it up, arid 
without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay 
it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you 
C5an, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that 
has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has 
been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the 
two jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the 
snout. 

In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small ; the head only 
being cut off to garnish as above. 

Pettitoes.— Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small 
cjjuantity of water, very gently? then cut the meat fine and 
dimmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet 
are quite tender ; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a 
spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper ; give it a boil up, 
pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the 
mince. 

To make ezoellent Meat of a Hog's Head.— Split the 
head, and take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it 
with common salt for a day ; then drain it : salt it well with salt 
and saltpette three days, then lay the salt and head into a small 
quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boU till all the 
bones will come out ; remove them, and chop the head as (^uick as 
possible ; but first skin the tongue and take the skin caretully off 
the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt and a 
little mace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, 
press the cilt head in, and put the other skin over ; press it down. 
When cold it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too 
fat, you may put some lean pork, to be prepared the same way. 
Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a 
pickle to keep it. 

To Boast Porker's Head.— Choose a fine young head, 
c'l^an it well and put bread and sage as for pig ; sew it up tigbl , 
and on a string or hanging-jack roast it as a pig, and serve with 
the same sauoe. 

To Prepare Pig's Cheek for Boiling.— Cut off the snout, 
and clean the head ; divide it, take out the eyes and the brains ; 
sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. 
S^H it with common salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days 
if it be dressed witilxout stewing with poasi but lestn if to be dresse^l 



60 COLLAABD pig's HEAD— DRIED HOO's CHEEKS. 

with peas ; and it must be washed first, and then siinmered till all 
is tender. 

To Collar Pig's Head.— Scour tlie head and ears nioely ; 
take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and t)ie braia ; 
lay it into water one night ; then drain, salt it extremely well with 
common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie fi^e days. Boil it enough 
to take out the bones, then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick 
end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other to 
moke the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white 
pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and, if you approve, put the 
pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two 
cow-heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil t\Vk 
quite tender, then put a good weight upon it, and do not take off 
tne covering till cold. 

If you choose it to be more like brawn salt it longer, and let the 
proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put iu also some pieces* ot' 
lean pork ; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the hofn. 

This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water 
boiled with vinegar, and is a very convenient thing to have in the 
house. If likely to spoil, sHce and fry it, either with or withi^ut 
butter. 

To Dry Hog's Cheeks.— Cut out the snout, remove the 
brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the 
chawl a good Bhaj>e : rub it well with salt ; next day take ai^y 
the brine, and salt it again the following day -. cover the head with 
half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay salt, a little common 
salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be o||en 
turned ; after ten days, smoke it for a week like bacon. 

To Force Hog's Ears.— Parboil two pair of ears, or take 
some that have been soused ; make a forcemeat of an anchpvy, 
some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with tte 
yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and 
stuff them with the above. Fry the ears m fresh butter, of a fine 
colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them : make ready half 
a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls 
of made mustard, a little bit of fiour and butter, a sm^l onioA 
whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into 
a stew-pan, and cover it close ; stew it gently for half an houri, 
shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onio»^, 
place tne ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 
If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added 
to the above. 

Different ways of Dressing Pig's Feet and EarB.-T 
Clcan carefully and soak some hours, and boil them tender ; them 
take them out ; boil some vinegar and a little salt with sozac of 
the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be 
drcBsed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears ; fry, and 
serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be either 
done in batter or only floured. '; 

Pig's Feet and Ears Fricasseed.— Put no vinegar into 



pig's eabslet— mock bbaww— black PUDBIKGS. 61 

the pickle, if to be dressed with cream. Gut the feet and cars into 
neat bits, and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, 
and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and 
lemon peel. Before you servo add a little cream, flour, butter, 
and salt. 

Jelly of Fig's Feet and Bars.— Clean and prepare as in 
the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water 
till every bone can be taken out ; throw in half a handful of 
chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, 
and mace, in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then 
pour the whole into a melon-form. 

Fig's Harslet. — Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and 
fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to 
make it tender ; season with peeper, salt, sage, and a little onion 
shred fine ; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it up tight 
\ni]\ a needle and thread, lloast it on a hanging-jack, or by a 
String. 

Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. 

Serve with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, just 
boiled up and put* into the dish. 

Mock Brawn.-— Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender ; take the 
meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre for a week. JBoil this almost enough ; take 
out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll 
it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very 
tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold ; after which keep it 
in a sousing liquor, as is directed in the next article. 

Souse for Brawn, and for Fig's Feet and Bars.— Boil 
a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of 
rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, 
for half an hour. Strain it, and lot it get cold. 

To make Black Fuddings.— The blood must be stirred 
ifMh salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of 
whole grits, to soak one night ; and soak the crumb of a quartern 
loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In 
the meantime prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping 
with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop 
ifine a little winter-savoury and thyme, a good quantity of penny- 
royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and 
nutmeg : mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs 
well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all 
up with the seasoning ; when well mixed, have ready some hog's 
fat cut into large bits ; and as you fill the skins, put it in at 
proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled, and boil in a large 
Kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When 
boiled, lay theml)etween clean cloths till cold, and hang them up 
in tio' kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in 
^^ater, wipe, and put them into a Dutch oven. 
- If there are not skins enough, put the stuffing into basons, and 
boil' it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when used. 

Another way.— Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as 



ea WHITS noe*8 PUDOiKes--To cubs U^lVB. 

wnch. boiling-hot milk as wiU swell ikem and leave half a piot of 
liqaid. Chop a good quantity of pennyroyalt soma savoury and 
thyme; salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered* Mix the 
above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; 
then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thorouip^hly, 
and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as 
will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small 
quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improve • 
ment. 

Another way. — ^Boil a quart of half-^its in as much milk as 
will swell them to the utmost ; then dram them and add a quart 
of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nut* 
meg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of 
the hog's leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten 
leaves of sage, a large handful of pennyroyal, and a spng of thyme 
and knotted majoram, all minced fine ; eight eggs well beaten, 
half a pound of bread-crumbs that have been scalded with a pint 
of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins ; which must first bo 
cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked 
in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, 
boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent their bursting* 
Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. 

White Hog's Fuddings.— ^'hen the skins have been soaked 
and cleaned as before directed, rinse and soak them all maht ia 
rose-water, and put into them the following filling : Mix half a 
pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or ei^ut bits, with a 
pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of 
currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a 
quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two eggs, a little 
orange-flower water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon- 
peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether 
sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. Jn boiling, much care 
must be taken to prevent the puddmgs from bursting. Prick them 
with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and water. 
Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. 

Hog's Lard should be carefuU;^ melted in a jar put into a 
kettle of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders that nave been 
extremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the hotter the lajrd 
keeps ; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put 14 a sp?ig 
of rosemary when melting. 

This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be pre- 
pared with care. Mixed with butter, it nidces fine crust. 

To Oure Hams. — Hang them a day or two ; tlien sprinkle 
them with a little salt, and drain them another day; pound aix 
ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half 
an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of toe coarsest sugar. Mix 
these well ; and rub them into each ham every day for four days* 
and turn it. If a small one, turn it every day for three weeks ; if 
a large one, a week longer; but do not rub after four days. 
Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. 

Another way. — Choose the leg of a hog that is fat ai^id ^e\l 



TO CUBE HiSCg— 70 HAX£ k PIOXLS. 6t 

fed ; han^ it as above ; if larffe, pat to it a pound of bay salt* four 
ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful 
of conimon salt, all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay 
the rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. 
Baste it as often as you can with the pickle, the more the better. 
Xcep it four weeks, tm*ning it every day. Drain it, and throw 
bran over it ; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burned, 
and turn it sometimes for ten days. 

Another way. — Hang the ham, and spinnkle it with salt bm 
above : then rub it every day with the following in fine powder i 
half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay salt, two 
ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a 
pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, 
for three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe 
it quite diy, and smoke it two or three weeks. 

Anottiop way that gives it a high flavour.— When the 
weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of 
saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay salt, the same quantity 
of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a (}uart or strong 
beer ; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the 
liam; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An 
ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine 
IHjwder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it 
with bran when wiped, and smoke it from three to four weeks, as 
you approve : the latter will make it harder and give it more of 
the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse 
wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. 

A method of giving a still higher flavour.— Sprinkle tlie 
ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days ; let it drain $ 
make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an 
ounce of coriander seeds, two ounces of juniper berries, an ounce 
of pepper, the same quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half 
an ounce of sal-prunel, a handful of common salt, and a head of 
shalo't, all pounded or cut fine. Boil these all together a few 
minutes, and pour them over the ham : this quantity is for one of 
ten pounds. Kub and turn it every day, for a fortnight ; then sew 
it up in a thin linen bag, and smoke it three weeks. Take care to 
dram it from the pickle, and rub it in bran before drying. 

To make a Fickle that will keep for y.ears, for hams, 
tongues, or beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel 
of them. To two gallons of spring water put two pounds of 
coarse sugar, two pounds of baj- and two pounds and a half of 
common salt, and aalf a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earthen 
glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will 
fit close. Keep the beef or hams a^ lont^ as they will bear, before 
you put them into the pickle ; and sprinkle them with coarse 
sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Eub the hams, &c., 
well with the pickle, and pack them in close ; putting as much as 
the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle 
is not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteen dayS) a 
large one tiiree weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in proper- 



64 OBSEUYAtlOHS ON KEEPING AND DBESSINO MUTTON. 

tion to its size. Tliey will eat well out of the pickle without dry- 
ing. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over 
the pan, and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponpje aud 
dry it thorouchly. Six op eight hours will smoke them, and there 
should be OQly a little sawdust and wet straw burnt to do this ; 
but if put into a baker's chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and 
hang them a week. 

To Dress Hams.— If long huncr, pnt the ham into water a 
night, and let it lie either in a hole dug in the eartli, or on damp 
stones sprinkled with water two or three days, to mellow, cover- 
ing it with a heavy tub to keep vermin from it. Wash well, aud 
put it into a boiler with plentjr of water; let it simmer four, ^ve, 
OP six hours, according to the size. When done enough, if before 
the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep 
the dish hot over boiling water. Take off the skin, and strew 
raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the skin 
as whole as possible to keep over the ham when cold, which w ill 
prevent its drying. 

Excellent Bacon. — ^Divide the hog, and take the chine out : 
it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be pre- 
served better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the bacon 
six days, then drain it Irom the first pickle : mix as much salt as 
you judge proper with eight ounces of bay salt, three ounces of 
saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut 
off* the hams. Kub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a 
month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dry without, by 
han$>iug in the kitchen, not near the fire. 

The Manner of Curing Wiltsliire Bacon. — Sprinkle 
each ilitch with salt, and let the blood drain off* for twenty-four 
hours : then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same 
quantity of bay salt, not quite so much as half a pound of saltpetre, 
and a pound of common salt; aud rub this well on the bacon, 
turning it every day for a month : then hang it to dry, and after- 
wards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for 
the whole hog. 

MUTTON.— Observations on Keeping and Dressing 
Mutton. — Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the 
inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great time, rub 
the part close round the tail with salt, after first cutting out 
tlie kernel. 

The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken 
out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib- 
bones should be wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the 
neck bo cut off*, to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the 
breast ; and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a Httle salt, 
should the weather be hot. 

Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon 
as brought in ; then wipe dry. 

For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind- 
quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for, whatever 



LEG OF JiUTTON—UATJKOH QV MUTTON. 65 

foahion mav authoruBe, putrid joioes ought not to hb taken into 
the stomach. 

Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung 
long. 

Great care sliould be taken to prescnre by paper the fat of what 
is roasted. 

Leg of Mutton. — If roasted, serve with onion or currant- 
jelly sauce ; if boiled, with caper sauce and vegetables. 

fi'eck of Mutton is particularly useful, as so many dishes 
may be made of it ; but it is not advantageous for the family. 
The bones should be cut short, whioh the butchers will not do 
tinless particularly desired. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with tur- 
nips ; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. 

The scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a small quantity 
of water, some small onions, a few peppercorns and a little rice, 
and served together. 

When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down 
the chine bone, strip the ribs half-way down, and chop off the ends 
of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken off 
till boiled, and then the fat wiU look the whiter. 

When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton than it is 
agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an uncommonly good 
suet pudding, or crust for a meat-pie if cut very fine. 

Shoulder of Mutton Roasted.-— Serve with onion sauce. 
The blade-bone may be broiled. 

To Dress Haunch of Mutton.— Keep it as long as it can 
be preserved sweet by the different modes : let it be washed with 
warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary' ; but when to bo 
dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should have a 
bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong 
paper, and fold the haunch in : set it at a great distance from the 
fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; do not take it off 
till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, and then 
baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before 
you take off the paste, and froth it up aa you would venison. 

A grav^ must oe made of a pound and a half of loin of old 
mutton, simmered in a ^int of water to half, and no seasoning but 
salt : brown it with a little burnt sugar, and send it up in the 
dish ; but there should be a good deal of graver in the meat ; for 
thou^ long at the fire, the cuBtance and covering will prevent its 
ifoastmg out. 

Serve with currant-ielly sauce. 

¥o Boast a Saddle of Mutton.— Let it be well kept fii*st. 
Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of 
anhourbeforeservinff, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge 
it well with fiour. The rump should be split, and skewered back 
on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the 
company ; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it re- 
qii{r09 a high and strong fire. 



66 FILLET OF KUTTOH BlUISKD— HABHBO UVtlOTX, 

miat of Mutton Braised.— Take off the elraiiip end of the 
loin, batter some paper, and pat over it, and then a paste a« for 
▼eniaon ; roast it two hoars. Do not let it be the least brown. 
Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; 
and while the matton is being glased, giro them one heat-up in 
gtvry, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. 

Harrioo*— Take off some of the &t, and cat the middle or best 
end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; floor and fry them in their 
own fat of a fine light brown, bat not enoagh for eating. Then 
pat them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, ana onions ; 
the carrots and turnips in dice, the oni<»s sliced : bat they most 
only be wt^rmed, not browned, or yoa need not fiy them. Then 
lay the steaks at the bottom of the stew-pan, the vegetables over 
them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them ; 

S've one boil, skim weU, and then set the pan on the side of the 
re to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hoars skim 
them ; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. 

To Hash Mutlon. — Cut thin shces of dressed matton, fat and 
lean; floor them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three 
spoonfiils of water ; add to it some ^vy and meat seasoned, and 
make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Inst^gid of 
onion, a dove, a spoonftil of currant-jelly, end half a glass of nort 
wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be one. 

Pickled cucumber, or w^ut, cut small, warm in it for change. 

To Boil Shoulder of Mutton with OjrBters.'-Hang it 
some days, then salt it well for two days, bone it, and sprinkfe it 
with pepper and a bit of mace poonded : lay some oysters over it, 
and roll {he meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small qaantity 
of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. 

Have ready a little good gravy, ana some oysters stewed in it ; 
thicken this with flour and batter, and poor over the matton 
when the tape is taken off. The stew-pan should be kept close 
eovered. 

Breast of Mutton.— Cot off the superfloous fat, and roast 
and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered 
with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire ; 
in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with 
caper saoce. Or, if boned, take off some of the fat, and cover it 
with bread, herbs, and seasoning ; then roll and boil : and serve 
with chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. 

IiOin of Mutton roasted; if cot lengthways as a saddle, some 
think it eats better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. 

To^ Boll Loin of Mutton.~-Hang the matton tiH tender ; 
bone it; and lay a seasoning or pepper, allspice, mace, nuttneg, 
and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. ^NText day prepare a 
stuffing as for hiure ; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing ; 
roll it op tight, and tie it. Half-bake it in a slow oven ; let it grow 
cold ; take off the fat, and put the grav^ into a stew-pan ; ilonr 
the meat, and pot it in likewise ; stew it till almost ready : and 
add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little 
lemon«pickle# half an hour before serving : serve it in the gravy. 



lEUTtON HAU^-HtrtTON dT£AKS UAIKIEKOIT. 67 

ttud with jelly-saace. A few fresh mushrooms are a great im- 
provement ; but if to cat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon 
piokle. 

Mutton Ham.— Choose a fine fresh leg of wether-mniton, of 
twelve or fourteen pounds weight ; let it be cut ham-shape, and 
hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan half a pound of bay 
salti the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a 
pound of coarse sugar, all in powder ; mix and make it quite hot ; 
then rub it well into the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor 
every day ; at the end of four days put two ounces more of com- 
mon salt ; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in 
wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cab- 
bage, mashed potatoes or eggs. 

Mutton Gollopfi.— Take a loin of mutton that has been well 
hung ; and cut from the part next the leg, some coUops very thin. 
Take out the sinews. Season the coUops with salt, pepper, and 
mace ; and strew over tliem shred parsley, thyme, ana two or 
three shalots: fry them in butter tiQ half done; add half a pint 
of gravy, a little juice of lemon, a piece of butter rubbed in flour, 
and simmer the whole very gently &ye minutes. They should be 
served immediately, or they will be hard* 

Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese Way.— Cut the chops ; 
Biad half-fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, 
and two bay leaves ; season with pepper and salt ; then lay a 
forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist 
the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through. 
Brou on a gentle flre. Serve with sauce Eobart; or, as the sea- 
soning makes the cutlets hi^h, a little gravy. 

Mutton Steaks should be cut from a loin or neck that has 
hunff ; if a neck, the bones should not be long. They should be 
broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned : 
take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and 
serve hot and hot the moment they are done. 

Steaks of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cucumb6rs.^Quarter 
cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt 
and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine brown, and 
put them into a stew-pan ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the 
steaks ; add some sliced onions, pepx>er, and salt ; pour hot water 
or weak broth on ^em ; stew and skim well. 

Mutton Steaks Malntenon.--Half-fry, strew them while hot 
with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning ; put them in paper imme- 
diately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not 
catch : rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. 

Mutton Sausages. — ^Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg 
of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled; chop it ex- 
txemely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg: 
add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, 
and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small 5 a quarter of a pound 
of grated bread, some of the anchovj^ liquour, and the yolks and 
^vhstes of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into 
»' little pot ; and use it by rolling it into balls or sausage'-iihape 

x 2 



68 TO DBB88 MUTTON BOIPS AND XIDKET8. 

and flaring. If approved, a little shalot may be added, or garlic, 
which is a great improvement. 

To Dress Mutton Bumps and Kidneys.— Stew sk mmpa 
in some good mutton-gravy half an hour ; then take them up, and 
let them stand to cooL Clear the gravy from the fat ; and put 
into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and 
a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps 
with yolks of eggs well beaten; and strew over them crumbs of 
bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and 
grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a nne brown. While the 
rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a 
Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be 
drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared 
likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the 
dish ; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards 
the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs 
cut in half, the white being left on ; or with different coloured 
pickles. 

An excellent Hotch Fotch.— Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, 
in a verjr little water, with a beef or ham-bone. While these are 
doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : 
three quarters of an hour before dinner, put the steaks into a stew- 
pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and serve all 
together in a tureen. 

Another. — ^Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed 
with vegetables as above; to both adda bit of butter rolled in 
flour. 

Mutton Kebobbed.— Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, 
and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint 
it at every bone : mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt aand 
pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of three 
eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place 
the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie 
them and fasten them on a small spit. Hoast them at a quiek 
fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter 
and the liquor that comes from the meat ; but throw some more 
of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and 
lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that 
in the dish ; and put into it two spoonruls of ketchup, and rub 
down a tea-spoonnil of flour with it ; give this a boil, and pour it 
over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the 
meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. 

China Chilo. — Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mut- 
ton, or leg, and some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a mot 
of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four 
spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, 
into a stew-pan closely covered ; simmer two hours, and serve. in 
the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved* 
add a little. . 1 

LAMB.— J!jeg of Lamb should bo boiled in a cloth to look oa 
white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served rouud^-^ar- 



POnE-aUABT£B OF LAMB— norsS tAHB STEAKS. 69 

nished with dried or fned parsley ; spinach to eat with it ; or 
dressed separately, or roasted. 

X*ore Quarter of Lamb.— Boast it either whole, or in sepa- 
rate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled 
over it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. 

Breast of Lamb and Cuoumbers.— Cut oflftho chine-bone 
from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When 
the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill ; and then 
hiy it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Forced, with Sorrel Sauce.— Bone 
a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat : braise it two 
hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it ; or it maj' be glazed 
only, and not braised. 

The method for both, see page 75. Servo with sorrel sauce 
under the lamb. 

Lamb Stealcs. — Fry them of a beautiful brown : when served, 
throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and 
crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour will 
be given under the head of Vegetables. 

Mutton or Lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered papers, 
either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and 
teat well. 

Sauce for them, called Sauce Eobart, will be found in the list of 
Sanocs. 

House Lamb Steaks, White.—Stew them in milk and 
water till very tender, with a bit of lemon peel, a little salt, some 
pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal gravy, and put the 
fiteoks into it ; mix some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and 
the least bit of flour ; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and 
let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white 
mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is very dear. 
. House Lam.b Steaks, Brown.— Season them with pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and chopped parsley ; but dip 
them first into egg ; fry them quick. ThicKen some good gravy 
withabit of flour and butter; and add to it a spoonful of port 
wine, and some o^'sters : boil it up, and then put in the steaks 
warm : let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, 
dr eggs, if you like. 

Lamb Cutlets with Spinach.— Cut the steaks from the loin, 
and fry them : the spinach is to be slewed and put into the dish 
first, and then the cutlets round it, 

Lamb's Head and Hinge.— This part is best from a house 
iamb ; but an v, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the 
hiead separatel^v till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights 
three parts boiled and cut small ; stew them in a little of the water 
■in which they were boiled, season and thicken with .flour and 
btttter, and serve the mince round the head. 

Lamb's Fry.— Serve it fried of a beautiful cobur, and with a 
goiod< deal of dncd or fried parsley over it. 
.:,Iiamb's Sweetbreads.^ Blanch them, and put them a little 
while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with r 



70 TO OSOOSB FOULTETi QAUS, STC. 

ladldfol of brotii, some pepper and ealt, a fimall bunch of small 
onions, and a blade of mace ; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and 
fitew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggi well beaten in 
cream, with a little minced parsley and a few ^ates of nutmeg. 
Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Do not let 
it boil after the cream is in, but make it hot, OAd stir it well all 
the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Yoimg French 
beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. 

E^icasseed Iiambstoiies.— Skin and wash, then dry and 
flour them ; fry of a beautiful brown in hog's lard. Lay them on 
a sieve before the ^e till you have made the following sauce : 
Thicken almost half a pint of Teal gravy with a bit of flour and 
butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a grate of nut- 
meg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large spoonfuls of 
thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well tul it is hot, 
and looks white ; but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Then 
put in it the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or 
two. Serve in a very hot dish and cover. 

Fricassee of Lambstones and Sweetbreads, another 
way. — Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled and 
sliced. Plour two or three sweetbreads, if very thick, cut them in 
two. Fry altogether, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow 
brown. Pour the butter off"; and add a pint of good gravy, some 
asparagus tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt, two shatots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmev 
ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, and by de^ees mix the whole* Turn the gravv 
back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boil* 
ing. Garnish with lemon. 

A very nioe Dish. — Take the best end of a neck of lamb, eut 
into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks 
almost round. Egg, then strew with crumbs, herbs, and season- 
ing ; fry them of the finest brown ; mash some potatoes with a 
little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish 
raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on an other with 
the smalTbone upward, all round the potatoes. 

Pies of the dinerent meats are directed under the general head 
of Savoury Pies. 



POULTBY, GAMB, &0. 

To Choose Foultry, Game, Ac, 

A Turkey-cock if young, it has a smooth, black leg, with a 
short s^ur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple 
and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. 

Hen-turkey is known by the same rules j but if old, her legs 
will be red and tough. 

Fowls.-— If a cock is young, his spurs will be short : but ta3ce 
ire to see that thay have not been cut or pared, which is a trick 



TO CHOOSE POU£TBT» OAHS, XTO. 71 

often practised. If fresh, tho vent will be close and dark. Pul- 
lets are best just before they begin to lav, and yet are full of 
esg ; if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough ; if young, 
they will be smooth. A good capon haa a thick belly and 
large rump, there is a particular fat at hi* breast, and the 
comb is yery pale. Black-legged fowls are most moist, if for 
roaatiBg. 

Geese. — The bill and feet of a young one will be yellow, and 
there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red : 
if fipesh, the feet will be pliable ; if stale, dry and. stiff. Geese 
ane called green till three or four months old. Green geese should 
be sealded : a stubble-goose should be picked dry. 

Docks. — Choose them by the same rules, of haying supple feet, 
and by their being hard and thick on the breast andibeQy. The 
feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclininff to dusky yellow } a 
wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller tnan the tame. They 
should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. 

Pj^eons should be yery fresh ; "when they look flabby about 
the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. The feet 
afaould be supple ; if old, the feet are hiursh. The tame ones 
axe larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons ; 
they should be fat and tender ; but many are deceiyed in their 
sise, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small 
pigeon. 

The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh dark-coloured : if pro- 
perly kept and not oyer-roaeted, the flayour is equal to teal. Serye 
with a good gravy. 

Plovers. — Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows 
they are fat. In other respects, choose them bv the same marks as 
other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet 
a long time. There are three sorts : — The grey, green, and bastard 
plover, or lapwing. 

HjEure or Babbit. — If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears 
dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old ; but if the claws 
are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip 
is not much spread, it is young, If fresh and newly killed, the 
body will be stiff, and in nares the flesh pale. But the^ keep a 
good while b^ proper care : and are best when rather beginning to 
turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a 
real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the 
foot on its fore leg; if there is none it is a hare. 

Partridges.--They are in high season in autumn. If young > 
the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if fresh, the 
vent will be Arm ; but this part will look greenish if stale. 
. Pheasants. — ^The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the 
hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs } 
but if old, they are long and sharp. 

Pireotions for Dressing Poultry and Gkune.--All 
poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed^ 
and the hair nicely singed with white paper. 

tQie cook must be careful in drawing poultry of all sorta 



72 POULXBY— HOAST TtfUKEr— BOILED TtmKEY. 

break the gall bag, for no washing will take off the bitter 
where it has touched. 

In dressing wild fowl, be carefal to keep a clear brisk fire. 
Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the grayer in ; 
the fine flayour is lost if done too much. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating 
through than others. All sorts should be continually basted ; 
that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine 
colour. 

A large fowl will take three-quarters of an hour : a middling 
one half-an-hour ; and a very small one, or a chicken, tweinty 
minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear before any 
fowls are put down. A capon will take from thirty to thirty-five 
minutes; a goose an hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour; 
pheasants, twenty minutes ; a small turkey stufied, an hour and a 
quarter; turkey poults, twenty minutes; arouse a quarter of an 
hour ; quails, ten minutes ; and partridges, from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part 
requires most heat. 

Pi^s and geese reauire a brisk fire, and quick turning. Hares and 
rabbits must be well attended to : and the extremities brought to 
the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. 

POXJLTBY.— To Boil Turkey.— Make a stuffing of bread, 
herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters or ', an 
anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an e^g ; put this into ihe 
crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey m a floured clothl to 
make it very white. Have ready a fine oyster sauce made r|ch 
with butter, a Httle cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and 
pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon sauce. Hen birds are 
best for boiling, and should be youug. \ \ 

To Boast Turkey.— -The sinews of the legs should be dra#n, 
whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under 
the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor 
let the gall touch it. 

Put a stuffing of sausage meat; or if sausages are to be served 
in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a largo addition to 
the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constai^ly 
to that part ; for the breast is offcen not done enough. A little 
strip of paper should be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorch- 
ing while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve 
with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of 
sausage meat. 

Pulled Tturkey.— Divide the meat of the breast by putling 
instead of cutting : then warm it in a spoonful or two of white 
gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a httle flour 
and butter ; do not boil it. The leg should be seasoned, 8(H>red, 
and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold 
chicken does as well. / 

To Boil Fowl. — For boiling choose those that are not black- 
legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour 



TllueStKO PCS SOASnHQ, 




74 TO BOIL TOyifJA WITH BIOE— SAYfiKPOBT FOWLS 

ihem, and put them into boiling water. — See time of dressingy 
paffe 72. 

Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery 
sauce. 

If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served to eat 
with them; as likewise greens. 

To Boil Fowl with Bice. — Stew the fowl very slowly in 
some clear mutton broth well skimmed ; and seasoned with 
onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it 
is ready put m a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and 
soaked. Simmer tul tender ; then strain it fxom the broth and 
put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Ceep the fowl hot, lay it 
m the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. 
The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor 
the fowl is done with the better. Gravy, or parsley and butter 
for sauce. 

Fowls Boasted.— Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or gar- 
nished with sausages and scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed in the 
crop wim sausage meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and 
with bread sauce. 

The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. 

Fowls Broiled.— Split them down.the hack ; pepper, salt»«&d 
broil. Serve witli mushroom sauce. 

Another way.— Cut a large fowl Into four quarters, put 
them on a bird spit, and tie that on another spit, and half- 
roast ; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the 
gridiron, which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled. 
The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the 
back after. 

Davenport Fowls.— -Hang young fowls a night : take the 
livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very 
small, with half a handftd of young clary, an anchovy to each 
fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with 
pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with 
this, and sew up the vents and necks quite dose, that the 
water may not ^et in. Boil them in salt and water till almost 
done : then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan, with 
butter enough to brown them. Serve them with fine melted 
butter, and a spoonM of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish. 

A Nice Way to Dress a Fowl for a Small Dish.— Bone, 
singe, and wash a young fowl : make a forcemeat of four ounces 
of veal, two ounces of screed loan of ham* two ounces of fat 
bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two 
ounces of beef suet, a tea-spoouM of lemon peel minced quite 
fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat 
all in a mortar, with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and 
whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the 
legs and wings inwards ; tie the neck and rump close. Stew the 
fowl in a wnite gravy : when it is done through and tender. 

Id a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and flour ; 



FBICAS8SB OV CHICXSyfr— TO TXTLL CHIOXIKS. 75 

mre it one boil, and serre; the last thingi add the aqoeete of a 
lemon. 

To Force FowL fto., it to stuff anv part with forcemeat, 
and it is put usually oetween the skin and thB flesh. 

To Braise, is to put meat into a stew-pan covered with fat 
1)acon, then adfd six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to 
be brown, celery, any bones^ or trimmings of meat or fowls, and 
some stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies). The 
bacon must be covered with paper, ana the lid of the pan must be 
put down close. Set it on a slow stove, and according to what it 
IS, it will require two or three hours. The meat is then to bo 
taJcen out ; and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil 
veiT Quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot ; and if 
larded, put into the oven for a few minutes ; and then put the 
jelhr over it, which is caUed glaaing, and is used for ham, ton^e, 
and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazm^. 
The glaze should be of a beautiful dear yellow brown, and it is 
best to put it on with a nice brush. 

IFMcassee of Chiokens.— Boil rather more than half, in a 
small quantity of water : let them cool : then cut up ; and put to 
simmer in a httle gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, 
and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some 
white pepper, and a bxmch of sweet herbs. When qmte tender, 
keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the following man- 
ner : — Strain it off, and put it back into the saucepan with a little 
salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter : give it one 
boil ; and when you are goinff to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, 
add half a pint of cream, ana stir them over the fire, but do not 
let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg. 

The gravy may be made (wimout any other meat) of the necks, 
feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are called the 
trimmings of the fowl. 

To Pull Chiokens.— Take off the skin: and pull the flesh 
off the bone of a cold fowl in as large pieces as you can : dredge it 
with flour, and fry it of a nice brown m butter. Drain the butter 
from it : and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well seasoned^ 
and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half 
a lemon* 

Another wayll— Cut off the legs, and the whole back, of a 
dressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all the white part 
into little flakes free from skin, toss it up with a little cream 
thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of 
mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Cut off the neck-end of the chicken, and broil the back and 
sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the 
hash in the middle, with the back on it ; and the two legs at 
the end. 

Cliioken Currie;— Out up the ehicken raw, slice onions, and 
fry both in butter with great care, of a fine lipht brown ; or, if 
yott use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay 
the joints, out into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan, with 



76 TO BRAISE CHICKENS —TO BOAST GOOSE. 

veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlic. Simmer 
till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve if, 
rub smooth a spoonful or two of cume-powder, a spoonful of flout, 
and an ounce of butter : and add this, with four large spoonfuls df 
cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeeze 
in a little lemon. 

Slices of underdone veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c., make excellent 
cuiTie. 

A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For directions to do 
this, see the article Bice in the Index. 

Another, more easily made.— Cut up a chicken or young 
rabbit : if chicken, take oflf the skin. Boll each piece in a mixture 
of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie powder. 
Slice two or three onions, and fiy them in butter, of a light 
brown: then add the meat, and fry all together till the meat 
begins to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boilinjg 
water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or 
three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour befoiie 
serving. • 

If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth wdll be 
better than water : but the currie is richer when made of fresK 
meat. ! 

To Braise Chickens.— Bone them, and fill them wdth forccj- 
meat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a 
stew-pan, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, 
a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a gla^s 
or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, anjd 
then white paper ; cover the whole close, and put them on !a 
slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, 
and skim off the fat carefully : set it on to boil very quick to a glaz0, 
and do the chickens over with it with a brush. ! 

Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, 
put the chicken into an oven for a few* minutes, to give a httle 
colour. ' 

Ducks Boasted. — Serve with a fine gravy ; and stuff onle 
with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of buttet* 
and pepper and salt ; let the other be unseasoned. 

To Boil Ducks.— Choose a fine fat duck, salt it two days, 
then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but mejt 
the butter with milk instead of water. j 

To Stew Ducks. — Half-roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan 
with a pint of beef gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, 
pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as line as possible. 
Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean ; then add near p, 
quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour 
longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little flour, and give it onle 
boil; then serve in one dish. ' 

To Hash Ducks.— Cut a cold duck into joints, and warm it, 
without boiling, in gravy, and a glass of port wine. 

To Boast 0-oose. — After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers 
pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed 



Tlil7S8IK0 FOB ROABTIMG AND BOIUKO. 



77 



Pigccii (rcoBt). 



Wild Duck (roast). 



n 




Fowl (boaod). 




GooBO (boiled). 




Itabbit, trussed— London mod«. 




Babbit, trussed— Country mode, 




1 



78 TO STEW 0IBLST8— FlOSOKft 

and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and 
salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Pat 
it first at a distance from the fire, and bv aegrees draw it nearer. 
A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast*bone. Baste it 
very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper, and be 
careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by 
coming flatted to table. Let a good graTy be sent in the dish. 
Grayy and apple sauce ; gooseberry sauce for a ^reen goose. 

To 8tew GibletB.— Do them •• will be directed for giblet 
pie (under the head Pies); season them with salt and pepper and 
a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil 
with a cup or cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in a tea-spoon- 
ful of flour. 

Pigeons may be dressed in so many waf s, that they are veiy 
useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their 
being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird re- 
quires so much washing. 

Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made 
into a pie ; in either case, care must be taken not to overdo them, 
which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up in 
gravy made ready, and forcemeat bails may be fried and added, 
mstead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef steaks 
be stewed m a little water, and put cold under them, and cover 
each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. 
Season as usual, and pot ^fEg0« 

To Stew Piseons. — ^Take care that they are quite fresh, and 
carefully cropped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half an 
hour. In the meantime cut a hard white cabbage in sUces (as if 
for pickling) into water ; drain it, and then boil it in milk and 
water ; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stew- 
pan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well with 
pepper and salt, and cover them with the remainder of the cab- 
bage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are 
tender ; then put among them two or three spoon^s of cream, 
and a piece of^ butter and nour for thickening. Aft^r a boil or 
two, serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round 
them. 

Another way. — Stew the birds in a ffood brown gravy, either 
stuffed or not; and seasoned high witn spice and mushrooms 
fresh and a little ketchup. 

To BiPoil Pigeons. — After cleaning, split the backs, pepper 
and salt them and broil them very nicely ; pour over them either 
stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot 
as possible. 

Boast Pigeons should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or 
whole, and seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. 
Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. 

To Pickle figeons. — Bone them; turn the inside out, and 
lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; then 
turn them a«[ain, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put 
them into bouing water^ let them boil a minute or two to plump 



PIOX0K8 IN JXLLT— TO POT PIGEONS. 79 

take tJiem out, aad diy them well : then put them boilinff hot into 
the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine 
and white-wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspiee, sliced 
ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay leaves. When it boils 
U]p, put the piceons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour 
wiU do them ; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then 
take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is 
cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them 
in a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. 

Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks 
of •ggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, 
salt, and mace. 

Figeons in Jelly. — Save some of the liquor in which a 
knuckle of veal has been boiled j or boil a calfs or neat's foot ; put 
the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
some white pepper, lemon peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the 
pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to get cold. Season as 
you like, before baking. When done take them out of the liquor, 
cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelfir bv 
boiling it with the whites of two eggs ; strain it through a tnick 
cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must 
be perfectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and 
round them rough. 

The same, a beautiftil Dish.— Pick two very nice pigeons, 
and make them look as well as possible by singemg, washing, and 
cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but 
dip the nails close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown, 
and when done, put a little sprig of m3rrtle into the bill of each. 
Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it hslf-fill a bowl 
of a size that is proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be 
served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no 
pTflvy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the 
jelly. Beiore the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so 
as to be three inches above me feet. This should be done full 
twenty-four hours before serving. 

This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range 
of a second course, or when served with the jelly roughed larffe, it 
makes a side or comer dish, its size being then less. The head 
should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, 
and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. 

To Pot Pigeons.— Let mem be quite fresh, clean them care- 
Ailly, and season them with salt and pepper : lav them close in a 
small deep pan, for the smaller the surface and the closer they are 
packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, 
then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. When 
^ScM, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each ; 
and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. 
Observe that the butter should be pretty thick if they are to be 
kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into 
the pot, thejr would lie closer, and require less butter. They may 
b0 stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and 



80 TO KEBP GAMF., 

then they will eat excellently. If a high flavoiir ia approved of, 
add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. 

Larks, and other Small Birds.— Draw, and spit them cm 
a bird-s^it; tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste 
gently with butter, and strew bread crumbs upon them till halt 
done ; brown and serve with fried crumbs round. 

GAME, &c.— To Keep Game, &c .— Game ought not to 
be thrown away even when it has been kept a very long time ; for 
when it seems to be spoiled, it may often be made fit for eating fo^ 
nicelv cleaning and washing with vinegar and water. If there is 
any danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them, the& 
wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have ready 
a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by 
one, drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may 

{)ass tlurough them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then 
lan^ them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt 
the msides well Before roasting, wash them well. 

The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved thus. 
Those that Hve by suction cannot be done this way, as they ore 
never drawn ; and pehaps the heat might make them worse, bb 
the water could not pass through them; but they bear being 
high. • 

Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them 
from taint, and restore what is spoiling. 

Pheasants and Partridges.— Itoast them as turkey, aiid 
serve with a fine gravy (into which put a small bit of garuc) and 
bread sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, 
but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemou. For the 
manner of trussing a pheasant or partridge, see page 73. 

To Pot Partridge. — Clean them nicely; and season with 
mace> allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Eub every 
part well ; then lay the oreasts downwards in a pan, and pack the- 
birds as close as you possibl}^ can. Put a good deal of butter ^On 
them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paper 
over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, 
and cover them with butter. 

A very Cheap Way of Potting Birds.— Prepare them as 
directed m the last receipt ; and when baked and grown cold, cut 
them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close in a large 

Sotting-pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. 
!over them with butter, and one-thirdf part less will be wanted 
than when the birds are done whole. The butter that has. 
covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for 
meat pies. 

To Clarify Butter for Potted Things.— Put it into a 
sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little, 
water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky payts 
over the potted things : they will sink to the Dottom. 

To Pot Moor Game.— Pick, singe, and wash the birds 
nicely : then dry them ; and season, inside and out, pretty high, 
with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in ai»' 



GEOTTSB— WHD FOWL— WOODCOCKS. 81 

mall a pot as will hold them, cover them with bntteri and bake 




that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in 
a basin set in a bowl of hot water. 

Grouse. — ^Eoast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted 
under the win^. They must not be overdone. Serve with a rich 
gmvv in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as 
will be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may bo used 
instead of cominon g^yy. 

To Boast Wild Fowl.— The flavour is best preserved 
without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter itito 
each. 

Wild fowl require much less dressing than tatne : they should 
be served of a fine brown colour, and well fi-othed up. A rich 
brown ^avy should be sent in the dish ; and when the breast 
Is cut mto slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of 
lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the 
flavour. 

To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put 
an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping-pan, and baste them 
for the first ten minutes with this : then take away the pan, and 
baste constantly with butter. 

Wild Ducks. Teale, Widgeon, Bun-Birds, &o., should 
be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and 
sprinkle a little salt betore they are taken up ; put a good gravy 
under them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. 

Woodoooks, Snipes, and Quails keep good several days. 
Bosat them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only 
4(0uld be eaten with them, as gravy takes off from the fine fiavour. 
Gjie thigh and back are esteemed the most. 

Bufib and Beeves are skewered as quails : nut bars of bacon 
over them, and roast them about ten minutes, oerve with a good 
gravy in the dish. 

To Dress Plovers.— Boast the green ones in the same way 
as woodcocks and quails (see above), without drawing ; and serve 
on a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with 
gravy, herbs, and spice. 

Plovers' Eggs are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten 
minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. 

To Boast Ortolans.— Pick and singe, but do not draw them. 
Tie on a bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in 
slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the fiavour of 
the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. 

Guinea and Pea Fowl eat much like pheasants. Dress 
them in the same way (see page 80). 

Hares, if properly taken care of, will keep a great time ; and 
even when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in high per- 
fection, which if eaten when fresh Killed they are not. As they are 
usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this ; but 



62 noABT HiBB— arraosD hasb— m&BBirs. 

the haM keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four 
or five dajB, or aocording to the weathor. 

If paundied, aa aoon as a hare oomea in, it ahonld be wiped quite 
dry, uie heart and liver taken out, and the lirer scalded to keep for 
the stuffing. Bepeat this wining eyery day ; mix pepper and ginger, 
and rub on the mside ; and put a large piece of charcoal mto it. 
Apply the spice early to prevent that musiy taste which long keep- 
ing in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffingv An 
ola hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It 
must also be well soaked. 

To Boast Hare. — ^Aflber it is skinned, let it be extremely well 
washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water : and if old, lard 
it ; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. 
If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well 
washed in water werwards. Put a lar^e reliahing stufluig into 
the belly, and then sew it up. Saste it well wim milk tul half 
done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has se^ed in the 
neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire 
warm, will remove it ; especially if ^u also nick the skin here 
and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be 
kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine £roth, 
rich gravy, melted butter, and cunsnt-jelly sauce ; the gravy in ike 
dish. For stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a 
little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a litUe onion, crumbs of 
bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned 
and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. 

For the manner of trussing a hare, see page 73. 

To Jug an Old Hare.— After cleaning and skinning, cat it 
up, and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a 
little nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase hemes 
over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder and leather or strong 
pwer ; and put it into a saucepan of water up to tiie neck, but no 
higher. Keep the water boilmg five hours. When it is to be 
served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and floor } and if 
the meat gets cold, wann it in this, but not to boil. 

Broiled and Haohed Hare.—The flavour of broiled hare 
is particularly fine : the legs or wings must be seasoned first, rub 
with cold butter, and served very hot. The other parts, warmed 
with gravy and a little stuffing, ma^ be served separately^. 

To Pot Hare, for which an old one does well, as likewise for 
soup and pie. After seasoning, bake it with butter. When eold 
take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not 
high coLOugh, add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the finest 
fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy that 
came from the hare. When wdl mixed put it into small pote, 
and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked at 
the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be put 
over them. 

BABBITS may be eaten vanous wm, as follows :— 
Boasted with smBag and gravy, like laro : <« without staffing ; 



<■--•. 



with «8aoe of tba lirer and mmley chopped in melted butter* 
pepper and salt ; or larded, rbr toe manner of tnissing a rab* 
nit for eitiher roastinff or boiling see pa^ 77. 

Boiled and smothered 'witii onion aoaoe ;' the baiter to be 
melted with milk instead of water. 

Fried in joints, with dried or fried parslegr. The mine lirer 
saooe, this way abo. 

Fricasseed, as before directed (pBge 75) for chickens. 

In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In this wajr they are 
excellent when yonnff. 

Potted. 

To make a Babbit Taste much like Hfi3re.~ChooBe 
one that is yonng, but fuQ. grown ; hang it in the skin three or 
four dm ; then skin it, and lay it without washing, in a seasoning 
of black pepper and allspice in yeiy fine powder, a glass of port 
wine, and the same guantity of vinegar. jBaste it occasionally for 
forty hours, then stim it and roast it as a hare, and with the same 
sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. 

To Pot Babbits.— Out up two or three young but full-grown 
ones, and take the leg-bones off at the thigh ; pack them as close 
as possible in a smalTpan^ after seasoning them with pepner, mace, 
Cayenne, sdt, and auspice, all in Tcry fine powder. Make the 
top as smooth as you can. Seep out the heads and the carcasses, 
but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, 
and bake the wh<de gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then 
shift it into small pots, ad£ng butter. The livers also should be 
added, as they eat well. 

To Blanon Babbit, Fowl. ^., is to set it on the fire in a 
small quantity of cold water and let it boil ; as soon as it boils it 
is to be taken out and put into cold water for a few minutes. 



80X7P8 Aim OBAVIE8. 

General DirMi&M rtapeoimg Saupt and Gravis. 

When there is fear of tiie graTT*meat being spoilt before it is 
wanted, season wdl and fipy it lightly, which will preserve it two 
dava longer ; but the ^vy is best when die juioea arefreah. 

"When soups or granes are to be gut by, let them be ohiiiB»d 
every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has vegeteSles 
boikd m it wUl torn soar sooner than the jmces <mP meat. Jfever 

keep any gravy, Ac., in metal. « , * « • c^ 

When fat remains on anv soup a eupfol of xkMir and w«tel\ 

mixed quite sxnooth, and bdfed in, will take it off. 
If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good Imp or 

butter mixed with flour, and boikd in the soup, will give either of 

these qualities. 
Long boiling is neeessary to give the f^ill flavour of we m- 

F 2 



84 SCOTCH MTTTTOW BEOTH— VEAL BEOTH. 

gredients, therefore time should be allowed for sonps and graviea ;, 
and they are best if made the day before they are wanted. 

Soups and gravies are &r better when the meat is put at ^e 
bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c., with; 
batter, than when water is put to the meat at iirst ; and the gravy 
that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the 
water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, &c., that 
have stood to be cold. ^ When onions are strong, boil a turnip witii< 
them, if for sauce ; this will make them mild. 

If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in boiling, 
that the watery particles may evaporate. 

A clear jellj[ oi Cow-HeeiB is very useful to keep in the house, 
being a great inmrovement to soups and gravies. 

Truffles, and Morels thicken soups and sauces, and give 
them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, then 
simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the, 
liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. 

SOUPS, &c.— Scotch Mutton Broth.— Soak a neck of 
mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a 
stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it Boils skim it^ 
well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then 'take the best 
end of the mutton, cut into pieces (two bones in each), take some, 
of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper ; skim the- 
inoment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour 
afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of 
turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in. 
soon enough to get quite tender : add four large spoonfuls of 
Scotch baney, first wetted with cold water. The meat should 
stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twe^uty 
minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is ^n 
excellent winter dish. 

Veal Broth. — Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of 
water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the 
liquor is half wasted away. 

Colouring for Soups and Gravies.— Put four ounces of 
lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the fii) est butter, 
into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a 
wooden s^oon till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of 
water; boil, skim, and when cold bottle and cork it close. Add. 
to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. 

A Clear Brown Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy. — 
Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the 
lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stew-pan, with two or 
three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery 
sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, bat ' 
do not let it brown. ' When thus prepared it will serve either for . 
soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown gravy put some pf' 
the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. \1 

An excellent Soup. — Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, sli^ea^ 
of undressed gammon oi bacon, onions, mace, and a small quaUut^ " 
of water ; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good beei- 



GIBLET SOUP— FARTBIDOB SOtTP. %S 

bioth made the day before, and stewed till the meat ii done to 
rdgfi. Add cream, vennicelU, and idmondB, as will be directed in 
the next receipt, and a roll. 

''.-Jln ezoellent White Soup.— Take a scrag of mutton, a 
kimbkle of yeal after cutting off as much meat as will make col* 
Bps, two or three shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a 
quarter of a pound of very fine undrest lean ffammon of bacon, 
with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon peel, two or 
l^ree onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white 
pepper ; boil all in three quarts of water till the meat falls quite to 
piem. Next day take on* the fat, clear the jelly firom the sedi* 
ment, and put it mto a saucepan of the nicest tin. If maccaroni 
is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender 
after soaking in cold water. YermiceUi may oe added afler the 
thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thick- 
ening, which is to be made as follows : — ^Blanch a quarter of a 
pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste m a marble 
mortar, with a spoonful of water to prerent their oiling ; mince a 
large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of 
stafe white bread ; add all tliis to a pint of thick cream, a bit of 
&esli lemon peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil 
it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it 
through a coarse sieve ; this thickening is then fit for putting to 
the rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. 

A Plainer White Soup.— Two or three pints of soup may 
be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in 
Hke last article ; and both served together, adding a quarter of a 
pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream and a Lttle ground 
rice will give it a proper'thickness. 

OibleiD Soup.— Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or 
dtick' giblets ; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, 
scra^ of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox-tail, or 
some shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet 
herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt* 
Put five ^ints of water, and simmer till the p^izzaros (which must 
be each m four pieces) are quite tender : skim nicely, and add a 
quarter of a pint of cream, two tea^spoonfdls of mushroom-pow- 
aer, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour* 
Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be 
seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, 
a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the 
tureen, aad salt. 

Partridge Soup.— Take two old partridges, skin them, and 
cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of 
celexy, ^nd three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in 
butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put 
them into a stew-pan with five pints of boiling water, a few pepper- 
corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it ^nUy 
^wo hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again mto a 
steW-pan, with some stewed celery ana fried bread; when it 
is^jnear )>oiling, skim it, pour it intQ a tiireen and serve it up hot. 



86 TTOKXF-MH?'— eXSBN PXIS SfflZTw 

Maooftrcmi Sov^.-^Boil a pooadof the beet Biaooiioniina 
^puuri of good stoek till quite tender ; then take out half, and pnit 
it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some moie stock, 
and boil it till joa can pnlp all the maccaioni through a fine siere ; 
then add togeth^ the two liquors, a pint or more of cream, boil- 
ing hot, the maccarctti that was first taken out, and half a pound of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not lei it boil. 
Berre it with the- crust of a Erefuch roll eut into the size of a 
idiiilinff. 

A fepper-pot» to be aerved in a Tnreen;— To three 
quarts €« water put regetables aeoording to the season; in 
summer, peai, lettuce, and spinach ; in winter, carrots, turnips, 
eelesy, and (»dons in both* Cut small, and stew with two pounds 
of neck of mutton, or a fowl and a pound of pickled pork, in three 
quarts ol water, till quite tender. 

On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a 
lobster or crab, cleared from the shells. Season with salt and 
Cajeane. A SDaall quantity of rice should be put in with the 
meat. Some people ^oose yery small suet dumplings boiled with 
it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of wat^ 
with aHttle fiiyor. 

Pepger-pot may be made of various things, and is understood 
to be a due proportion of fish, fiesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. 

Turnip Sonp.— Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that 
ean be made into cutlets, <&c., and set the remainder on to stew 
with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and fire pints of 
water ; cover it dose, and let it do on a slow fire four or five hours. 
Strain, and set it by till next d&y ; then take the fat and sediment 
from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, 
seasoning it with rait and pepper. B^re serving, rub down half 
a spoonful of fiour with haof a pint of good cream and the sise of 
a walnut of butter. Let a small roU simmer in the soup till wet 
through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling 
cveam. 

Old Peas Soup. — Save the water oi boiled pork or beef, and 
if too salt, put as much fresh water to it, or use fresh water en- 
tirety with roast beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy 
or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas ; the 
smaller the quantity c^ water at first the better. Smimer till the 
peas wilL pulp throuiafh a colander ; then set the pulp, and more 
of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a 
leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite 
tender. The last requires less time, an hour wOl do for it. 

When ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed 
finoy p^per, and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour the 
soqp m* 

ween Peas Soup.— In shelling the peas, divide the old from 
tlie young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of 
wat«r, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper 
and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when you hay e 
dose so, put to the liquor that stewed them some more water* the 



heaapts and tender stalks of the letiaoes, the joxmfpetBf a haiidM 
of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to rebsn properly, and 
stew till quite soft. If the soup is tnin, or not rich enough, either 
of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or two of 
butter, mixed with a snoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and healed 
wi^ it half an hour. Before serving, boil some green mint shred 
fine in the soup. 

When there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary ; but 
if meat bo preferred, a pi^'s foot, or ham-bone, &c., may be boiled 
y^^ the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is 
mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is re* 
quired to be very rich. 

When peas first come in or are ver^ young, the stock may be 
made of the shells, washed and boiled till they will pulp with the 
above ; more thickening will then be wanted. 

Qr ayy Soup.— Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, 
and set it on the fire with a gallon of water a large bunch of sweet 
herbs, two large onions shced and fried a fine brown (but not 
burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, 
and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is as rich as you 
choose ; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the servant's 
table with a little of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat ; 
which will serve for basting, or for common piecrust. Have ready 
such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, 
and celery small, and simmer till tender : some people do not like 
them to DO sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil ver- 
micelli a quarter of an hour ; and add to it a large spoonM of sov, 
and one ot mushroom ketchup. A French roll should be made 
hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. 

Vegetable Soup.— Fare and slice five or six cucumbeirs ; and 
add to these ^e inside of as many cos-lettuces, a Sj^rig or two of 
mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pmt and a half 
of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound 
of fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their own liquor, near 
a gentle fire, half an hour ; then pour two quarts of boihng water 
to the vegetables, and stew them two hours ; rub down a little 
flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and serve it. 

Another way.— Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, 
six carrots, and jfour turnips ; by them in half a pound of butter, 
and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of 
bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not bum it: put 
^at, Bome celery, sweet herbs, white pepper and salt to the above; 
stew it all gentry for four hours, then strain it through a coarse 
cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a Httle turmp, and add 
to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved 
you may add an anchovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. 

Carrot Soup,— Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the 
liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two lan^e 
onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a saucepan, and stew for 
three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin» 



88 SPINACH S017P-H9COTOH LEBK SOITP— HAR£ SOUP. 

Btrom tlie soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to 'ptHtp 
through a hair siere or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with th6 
soup, which is to be as thick os peas-soup. Use two wooden 
spoons to rub th^ carrots through. Make the soup the day before 
it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the 
carrot, and not the yellow. 

Onion Soup. — Into the wat«r that has boiled a leg or neck 
of mutton, put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- 
bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced 
and fried of a light brown ; simmer three hours, skim it carefully, 
and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. 

Spinach Soup. — Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, 
two onions, one head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme 
and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the 
size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat 
has been boiled ; stew till the vegetables are quite tender ; work 
them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a st^oon, then to the 
pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh water, 

§epper and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet- 
umplings, the size of a walnut; and before you put the soup int6 
the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too 
fine ; and take care that it is quite fresh. 

Scotch Leek Soup.— Put the water that has boiled a leg of 
mutton into a stew-pot^ with a quantity of chopped leeks, and 
pepper and salt ; simmer them an hour ; then mix some oatme^ 
with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set iff- 
on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently ; but take c«t6 
that it does not bum to the bottom. 

Hare Soup. — Take an old hare that is good for nothing ^e-; 
cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef^ 
two or three shank-bones of mutton well cleaned, a slice of lean 
bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour on it 
two quarts of boiling water; cover the jar into which you put 
these, with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. 
Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain off the liquor and 
give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces ; and add a spoon- 
ful of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat-balls^ 
fried of a good brown, should be served in the tureen. 

Ox Bump Soup.— Two or three rumps of beef will make it 
stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these, and 
form a very nourishing soup. 

Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thickening 
you like. * 

Hessian Soup and Ragout.— Clean the root of a neat's 
tongue very nicely, and half an ox head, with salt and water, and 
soak them afterwards in water only. Then stew them in five o)r 
six quarts of water, till quite tender. Let the soup stand to be 
cold ; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot mettd^ 
pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a pint of spHt peas;'<il^ 
a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, six potatoes, Ai*' 
large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celea^]' 



SOUP 1-XA-SAP— POBTABLB SOITP—SOUP MAIOaB. 89 

Six9Bi0r them witiiout the meat till the yegetablet are done enough 
to imlp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup will then oe 
about tlie thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, 
alUplce, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all m nne powder. 
If tine peas are bad, the soup may not be thick enough ; then boil 
in it a slice of roll, and put it tlirough the colander, or add a little 
ric^^ur, mixing it by degrees. 

For the Ragout cut tne nicest part of the head, the kernels, 
and part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces. 
Bud these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into 
a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vege- 
tables were added, flour well, and simmer them nicely till tender. 
Then put a little mushroom and walnut ketchup, a little sov, a 
glass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and ooil 
all up together before served. If for company, small eggs and 
foroemeat balls. 

This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a small 
expense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for 
the £Bunily. 

Soup a-la-Sap.— Boil half a poimd of grated potatoes, a 
pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and thi'ee 
ounces of rice in six pints of water to Ave, strain it through a oo- 
lander, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a saucepan again 
witb two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper 
and salt, and when you serve add also fried bread. 

Portable Soup. — Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two 
shins of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as 
will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort 
of B^ice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done 
to ings strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold, 
taHe off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants* pies), 
put the soup into a double-bottomed tin saucepan, and set it on a 
pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and 
uncovered, and be stirred constantlv, for eight hours. Put it 
into a pan and let it stand in a cold place a day ; then pour it into 
a round china soup-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boil- 
ing water on a stove and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, 
till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is done enough. Pour it 
into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basins turned 
upside down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on 
flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to 
bemused, melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of 
hetbs, or anything else, boilit first, strain off the water, and melt 
the soup in it. 

This IS very convenient in the country, or at sea, where fresh 
meat is not always at hand, as by this means a basin of soup may 
be npiade in five minutes. 

Soup Maigre. — ^Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, 
shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shako 
the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of 
cel^yy^ two handfuls of spinach^ two cabbage-lettuces cut small. 



90 SS£ SOVP-HHCAXl MVF— Z0BSU2 SOUP. 

and some parsley. Sltake the paa wtll fct tea mmiitea, tksAViit 
in two quarts of water, scxne orosts of breads t^ tea-spoonfoT of 
beaten pepper, three or four blades of maoe, and if you hare any 
white beet leares, add a large handful of t^em cut small. 

BoU gently an hour. Jusfe before serving, beat in two yolks of 
eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Another. — ^Flour and frv a quarfc of green peas, four oniens 
sliced, Ihe coarse stalks of oeleiy, a carrot, a turmjp, and a paxmiip ; 
then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the 
whole win pulp through a sieve, then boil in it the best of the 
celery cut thin. 

Stock for Brown or White FiahSoniMU—Tske a pound of 
skate, four or five fkundarB, and two pounds of eels. Clean them 
well, and cut them into pieces : cover them with w«l«r ; and season 
them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with eLoves, a head 
of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Simmor an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it off 
for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, 
and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three 
days. 

jBel Soup. — ^Take three pounds <^ small eels ; put to them two 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of maoe» some whole 
pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover them olose, 
and stew till the fish is ^uite broken ; then strain it off. Toast 
some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boilin|^. A 
piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as noh as 
if made of meat. A quarter of a pint c£ nch cream, with a 
tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improve* 
ment. 

Skate Soup. — ^Make it of the stoek for fish soup (ss di- 
rected above) ; with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a little 
before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with 
the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it 
with a small French roll made hot in a Puteh oven, and then 
soaked in the soup an hour. 

Excellent Iiobster Soup.— Take the meat from the claws, 
bodies, and tails, of six small lobsters : take away the brown fur, 
and the bag in the head : beat the fins, ehine, and small claws, in 
a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with the 
crumb of a Frraioh roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a 
large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit cf lemon-peel, till you have 
extracted the ^[oodness ofthem all. Strain it on. Beat the spawn 
in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea- 
spoonful of fiour ; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails 
into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. 
Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lob- 
ster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an effg or two. Ijet 
the balls be made up with a bit of fiour, ana heated in the 
soup. 

Crawflsh or Prawn Soun.— Boil six whitings, and a large 
eel (or the eel and half a thomback, well cleaDed)^ with as nmdi 



vatar ta will conut thMs? ikim them eleaa, ftiid pot in wliole 
pepper, maoe, ginger, panler, en onicm, a little thyme, and three 
WF«8. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty orawfiah, or a hundred nrawna ; 
poond the ahella, and a little roll ; but first boil them with a little 
water, vinegar, salt, and herbs : pnt this liqnor over the shells in 
a sieve; then poor the other soup, dear from the sediment. 
Chop a lobster, and add this to it^ with a quart of good beef 
gravy : add also the tails of the crawfish or the prawns, and 
some fiour and batter : and aeason as may be liked, if not high 
enough.. 

Oyster Sonp.— Take two quarts of fish stock, as diorected in 
page 90; beat the yolka of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of 
two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. 
Simmer it aU fcxr half an hour; then strain it aS, and put it and 
the oysters (eleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the 
soup. Simmer five minutes : have ready the ydks of six raw eggs 
weu beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one wsjy 
on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it 
boiL Serve altogether. 

Oyster Month 8oup.*-M8ke a rich mutton broth, with two 
hiBg^ onions, three blades of maoe, and some black pep^r. When 
•trained, pour it on a hxmdred and &£ty oysters, without the 
beards, and a bit of butter rc^ed in fiour. Simmer gently a quarter 
of an hour, and serve. 

OBAVIES.— General Direotiona respeoting Gravies. 
— ^ravy xatqr be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the 
kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. 

An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and 
prepared as other meat ; and so will the slumk end of mutton that 
has been dressed, if much be not wanted. 

The shank bones of mutton are a great improvement to the 
richness of grairy ; but first soak them well, and scour them 
dean. 

Tarra^pon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high 
gravies isa great improvement; but it should be added only a 
short time before serving. 

To Dress Gravy that will keep a week.— Gut lean beef 
thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a 
fire covered, but take care it does not bum ; let it stay till all the 
gpravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again : put as 
much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then 
put to the meat a small quantitjr of water, herbs, onions, spice, 
aod a bit ci lean ham ; sinmier till it is rich, and keep it in a cool 
place. Do not take off the fat till ffoing to be used. 

Clear Gravy.—- Slicebeef thin ; Droilapart of it over avery clear 
ciuiok fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress 
it : put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with 
two onions, a dove or two, whole black i^pers, berries of allspice, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover it witnliot water, give it one 
bo^, and skim it well two or three times ; then cover it, and sim- 
mer till quite strong. 



02 CI7LLIS, OB BBOWir OBATT— aRATT FOR A FOWL. 

CalUB, OP Brown Gravy.— Lay oyer the bottom of a dt^tr- 
pan as mnck lean yeal as will cover it an inch thick ; then corer^ 
the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions;^ 
two or three bay leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of maee,"^ 
and three cloves. Cover the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire f 
but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker.* 
"When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef^ 
broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour ; and aidd a W^e 
water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick ;" 
boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. 

Bechamel) or Wliite Sauce.— Cut lean veal into small 
slices, and the same quantity of lean bacon or ham ; put them, 
into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of 
mace, a few mushroom buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay leaf ; fry 
the whole over a very slow fire, but do not brown it ; thicken it 
with flour ; then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich 
cream : let it boil for half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain 
it through a soup-strainer. 

A Gravy without Meat.— Put a glass of small beer, a glass 
of water, some pepper, salt, lemon peel grated, a bruised clove or 
two, and a spoonuu of walnut pickle, or mushroom ketchup, ii9tto 
a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it^ 
is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with ^^' 
onion, and simmer it, covered, twenty minutes. Strain it off" for 
use, and when cold take off" the fat. ! 

A Hich Gravy.— Cut beef into thin slices, according to th^ ' 
quantity wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of a 
bght pale brown, but do not on any account suffer them to get- 
black ; put them into a stew-pan, pour boiKng water on the brown- • 
ing in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it 
a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savory, a small bit of knotted mais : 
joram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole. 
}lack peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon Cfi' 
>acon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat ; 
and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a 
hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. 

Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to nia«ke it 
of. — Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; 
simmer them with a little bread browned ; a slice of onion, a bit ' 
of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and 
gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, tiU half- wasted. Take out 
the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it 
with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonfiil of mushroom ketchup, 
and it will be very good. 

Veal Gravy.— Make it as directed for Cullis as above, but 
leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn very 
slowly ; and if tor white dishes do not let the meat brown. * 

Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison.— Pick a verj^ 
stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out th& 
bag from the entrails), and simmer with as much imseasoned mett^ 
gravy as you wiU want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. ■'*--^' 



STSONO VIBH OBAy7--SA170E8. 98 

Btrong Fish Grftvjr.— Skin two or three eeli, or some 
^pimden ; gut and wasn them very clean, cut them into small 
^ icef» and pat into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add 
ittle crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some 
lole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel, an anchovy or 
t'woy and a tea-spoonful of horse-raddish. Cover close and simmer ; 
1^ a bit of butter and flour and boil with the above. 

...Savoiiry Jelly, to put over Cold Pies.— Make it of a 
small bare knuckle of leff or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of 
that or mutton ; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, 
i|ecks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, 
observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. 
f^ut the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different 
herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon 
peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same 
of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts 
very dose. As soon as it ooils, skim it well, and let it simmer 
very slowly till quite stronff, strain it, and when cold take off the 
fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, 
lay a dean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not 
dear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not 
add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin 
ij^ it, which has been dipped in boiling water to prevent waste. 

MiiTelly to oover Cold Fish.— Clean a maid, and put it into 
three quarts of water, with a calfs-foot, or cow-heel, a stick of 
bc^rse-raddish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, 
& piece of lemon peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Btew 
i^tjl it will jelly, strain it off; when cold remove every bit of fat ; 
take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry » 
t|ue whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil with- 
out stirring, and afler a few minutes set it by to stand half an 
houn and strain it through a bag or sieve with a cloth in it. Cover 
the fish with it when cola. 



SAUCFS, fto. 



A very good Sauce, especially to hide the bad 
Colour of Fowls. — Cut the Fivers, slices of lemon in dice, 
scalded parsley and hard eggs : add salt, and mix them with 
butter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. 
I This will do for roast rabbit. 

White Sauce for Fricaissee of Fowls, Rabbits, White 
Meat. Fish, or Vegetables.— It is seldom necesBory to buy 
ineat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is 
l^t small. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit ; or a 
httle broth, that may be in the house ; or the feet and necks of 
<^|4cken ; or raw or dressed veal will suffice. Stew with a little 
Hfjiter an;|r of these, with a bit of lemon peel, some sliced onion, 
Ktn^ white peppercorns, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a 
DUnch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it and 



add a Utde good cfeam, a piece of butter, and a little floor; eaJt 
to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the eanoe 
k taken off the fire, shaking it well. Ydk of egg is often used in 
fricassee, but if you haye any oream it ia better, as the fbimer ia 
apt to curdle. 

Sauce for Wild Fowl.— Simmer a tea-eupM of port wine, 
the same quantity of good meat grary, a littfo shalot, a litlito 
pep^, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace for ten minutes ; 
put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and poor it 
through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame^ 
but may be done so if liked. 

Another for the same, or for 3>tu)k8.— -Serve a rich 
graTy in the disb ; cut the brrast into stices, but do not take them 
off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it ; then squeeae it 
on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy oyer before you help. 

An exoellent Sanoe for Carp, or Boiled Turkey.-*- 
Rub half a pound of butter witii a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a 
litde water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick 
cream and half an andioTy chopped fine, not washed ; set it oreit 
the fire, and as it boils up add a large spoonful of real India eogr* 
If that does not giye it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it 
into Ihe sauce tureen, and put some salt and half a lemcm : stir it 
well to hinder it from curdling. 

Sauoe for Fowls of any eort.— -Boil some yeal graty, pep- 
per, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, andaquwlM 
as mifoh of port wine as of gravy : pour it into the dish or a boii^ 

Sauoe for Cold Fowl or Partridge.— Eub down in a 
mortar the jolks of two egfs boiled hard, an anchovy, two desBet% 
spoonfuls of oil, tibiree of vmegar, a shalot, Cayenne if appioye<t 
and a tea-spoonifhl of mustard. All should be pounded befere iJie 
oil is added, llien strain it. Shalot-vinegar instead of ahalot 
eats well. 

Sauce a-la-Maitre d'HoteL— Put a piece of butter into a 
saucepan with some curled parsley, some tairagon leaves, a shalot, 
two leaves of balm, a little salt, lemon, or a glass of veijuice, and 
mix the whole with a spoon ontil they are well incorporated, and 
simmer a few minutes. 

A rety fine Mushroom Sauoe fiv Fbwls or RaX>bits.— 
Wash and pick a pint of voung mushrooms, and lub them with 
salt to take <^the tender skin. Put them into a saucepan wil^ a 
little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a 
good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil tiliem up and stir them 
till done ; then pour it round the chickens, &e. Garnish with 
lemon. If yt>u cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done 
white, with a little muiriiroom powder wi^ the cream, &g* 

Iiemon White Sauoe for Boiled Fowls.--Put the peel 
of a small l^non, cut very tiiin, into a ^int of sweet rich creMBt 
with a sprifT of lemon-thyme and ten white pepper-ooine. Sisnatt 
f[«itly 1m It tastes well of the lemon ; then strain it, and thickea 
it wiuk a quaiter of a pound of buttw and a dessert-spoonftil of 
flour rubbed in it. Boil it up, then pour the juice of the ~ 



staioed into it, stirring it well. Dish the oihickens, and then mix 
a little white gravj, quite hot, with the oream, but do not bc^ 
them together: add salt to your taete. 

likwer Sauce.— Chop boiled liver of mbbtta or fowls, and do it 
as directed for lexnon-sance (page 96), with a very little pepper 
and salt and some parsley. 

iigg Sauce. — fioil the eggs hard* and cat them into small 
pieees ; then put them to melted butter. 

Onicm Sauce.— Peel the onions and boil them tonder ; squeeze 
the water from them, then chop them and add to them butter that 
has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directod, 
but with a little good milk instead of water ; boil it up once, and 
B^rre it with boued rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal 
<»* roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions makes them 
milder. 

Clear Shalot Sauce. — Put a few dropped shalots into a 
little gravy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar, season 
with pepper and salt ; boil half an hour. 

To make Faraley Sauce when no Farsley-leaTes ax^ 
to be had. — Tie u^ a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, 
and boil it a few mmutes in some water. Use this water to melt 
the butter; and throw into it a littie boiled spinach minced, to 
look like parsley. 

Ghreen Sauce for Green Gtoese or Duoklinga.— Mix a 
quarter of a pint of sorrel-iuice, a glass of white wine, and some 
scalded gooseberries. Add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them 
up. 

Bread Sauoe.*-Boil a laii^ onion cut in four, witibi some black 
pefpers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Four the milk 
stnuned on grated white stale breach and cover it. In an hour 

Sot it in a aaucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed witii a 
tde flour : boil the whole up together, and serve. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish.— Put six spoonfuls of 
water, and four of vinegar, into a saucepan, warm, and thicken it 
witili the yolks of two eg^i* Make it quite hot, but do not boil 
it i squeeie in the juice oi half a lemon, and strain it through a 
sieve. 

Sauce Bobart for Bumps or Steaks.— Put a piece of 
butter, IJie sise of aa ef^g, into a sauoepau, set it over the ni«, and 
when browning throw m a handM of sliced onions out smidl ; fry 
ihsok brown, but do not let them bum $ add half a spoonful of 
flcmr, shake the onions in it and give it another fry ; then put four 
spoonfuls x^ jsravy and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten 
minutes ; skim on the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, 
a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of mdf a lemon ; boil it all, 
and pour it round the steaks. Thev should be of a fine yellow 
brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. 

B«Hat<m Sauce for Hot aiid OcMld Boast Beef.— Orate, 
or sevape very fine, some horseradish, a little made mustard, some 
poondml white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve 
inasaaoer. 



96 XOVATA SAtrCE— CITBBAin! SAV08 FOU VESIQOV. 

Sauoe for Fish Pies where Cream is not ordered^-^ 
Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vinegar, oyater 
liquor and mushroom ketchup: boil them up with an an- 
chovv ; strain, and pour it through a funnel into the pie after 
it is baked. 

Another.— Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up with thr^ee 
spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of 
butter and flour. 

Tomata Sauce for Hot or Cold Meats.-yPut tomatas, 
when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar, and set it in an oven, 
when the bread is drawn, till they are ^uite soft ; then separate 
the skins from the pulp, and mix this with capsicum vinegar and 
a few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be proportioned 
to the quantity of frmt. Add powdered ginger and salt to your 
taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne may be used in- 
stead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide- 
mouthed bottles, well corked, and m a dry cool place. 

Apple Sauce for Goose and Boast Fork.-;-Fare, core, 
and slice some apples ; and put them in a stone jar, into a sauce- 
pan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonfiil 
or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. When 
they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of 
butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in 
a sauce tureen. 

The Old Currant Sauoe for Venison.— Boil an ounce of 
dried currants in half a pint of water a few minutes ; then add a 
small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, 
and a bit of outter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. 

Lemon Sauoe. — Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, 
and put them in melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over 
boiled fowls. 

Carrier Sauce for Mutton.— Chop six shalots fine ; and 
boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some 
pepper and salt. Serve in a boat. 

Ham Sauce. — ^When a ham is almost done with, pick all 
the meat clean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part ; beat 
tiie meat and the bone to a mash with a rollin^-pm: put it 
in a saucepan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; sc^ it over a slow 
fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When 
it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, 
some pepper, and half a pint of beef gravy ; cover it up and let it 
stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the 
herbs, strain ofl* the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to 
all gravies. 

A very Fine Fish Sauce.— Put into a very nice tin sauce- 
pan a. pint of flne port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine 
walnut ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the li9Uor that belongs to 
them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and jmce of a large lemon, 
four or five shalots, some Cayenne to taate, three ounces of scraped 
horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of mide 
mustard ; boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then pot 



.' FISH 8A17Ce A.-L4 CRASTBR—OrSTEB SAUCE. 97 

- it iftio small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal 

1 tbe top. 

• Another. — Chop twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten 

' shalots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-radish, with about ten 

blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of 

anchovy liquor, a quart of hock, or Ehenish wine, and a nint of 

: water ; boil to a ^uart ; then strain off; and when cold, ada three 

larpre spoonfuls ot walnut ketchup, aud put into small bottles well 

. corked. 

FiBh Bauoe without Butter. — Simmer very cently. a quar- 

tev of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (wnich must not 

' be *hard), with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the 

following spices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, 

and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite 

tender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the whole ou the 

fire to boil tor a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the 

meantime, have ready and well beaten the yolks of three fresh 

eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when 

well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping a basin 

in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and snake the 

.saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil 

iktm, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of 

•melted butter. 

Pish Sauce a-la-Craster.— Thicken a quarter of a pound of 
.btiHer withfiour, and brown it ; then put to it a pound of the best 
anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty 
berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot 
of herbs ^namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), 
and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a 
mot ^ the best sherry, and a pint and a ha& of very strong gravy. 
Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then stram it through a 
sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using it is, to boil some of 
it in the butter while melting. 

An excellent Substitute for Caper Sauce.— Boil slowly 
some parsley, to let it become a bad colour, cut, but do not chop 
it fine ; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a 
dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. 

Oyster Sauce. — Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and 
boil it with the beai'ds, a bit oi mace and lemon jpeel. In the 
laeantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. 
Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as 
much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough ; 
but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir 
all the time ; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take 
them ojQP, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it ; for 
if idone too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon 
juiee, and serve. 

•If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, 
the; oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. 

'iiobster Sauce. — Found the spawn, and two anchovies: 
poor- > on tiiem two spoonfuls of gravy, strain all into somo 

o 



9S ANCHOTT «AT;CB--TnraABBT-HBHA10T TXKBGAH. 

butter melted as will be hereafter directed ; then pat in the 
meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of 
lemon. 

Another way.— Leave out the anchovies and gravy ; and de» 
it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you 
»"Uke. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt only. 

Shrimp Sauce. — If the shrimps are not picked at home, 
pour a little water over them to wash them ; put them to butter 
melted thick and smooth, give them one boil and add the juice of 
a lemon. 

Anchoyy Sauoe.— Chop two anchovies without washing, pnt 
them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stir it 
over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are 
good, they will be dissolved ; and the colour will be better than 
by the usual way. 

To Melt Butter, which is rarely well done, though a 
very essential article. — Mix in the proportion of a tea- 
spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. 
Put it into a small saucepan, and two or three tabl6*spoonMs of 
hot water, boil quick a mmute, shaking it all the time. Milk used 
instead of water, requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. 

Vingaret, for Gold Fowl or Meat.— Chop mint, parsley, 
and shalot, and mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a 
boat. 

Shalot Vinegar.—Split six or eight shalots ; put them into a 
quart bottle, and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month it 
will be fit for use. 

Camp Vinegar.— Shoe a larse head of garlic ; and put it into 
a Ti-ide-mouthed bottle with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea- 
spoonMs of real so^, two of walnut ketchup, four anchovies 
chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochmeal to give it the 
eolour 01 lavender drops. Let it stand six weeks : then strain off 
quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. 

Sugar V inegar.— To every gallon of water put two pounds of 
the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thor oug hly, then put oaie 
^uart of cold water for every gallon of hot. W hen cool, put into 
it a toast spread with veast. Stir it nine days ; . then barrel, and 
set in a place where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on 
the bung-hole. Make it in March, it will be ready in six months^ 

When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may be used fr^n 
the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. 

Gooseberry Vinegar.— Boil spring water 5 and when cold, 
"jbut to every three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a 
large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirriDg often, then 
strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor, add a 
pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and 
yeast : cover the bung- hole with a bit of slate, &c., as above. 
The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. 

Cucumber Vinegar.— Pare and shoe fifteen large cucumbem 
and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four 
pnions sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlic, two large «poon« 



irZVJi YINBOAB— SrASrVBTIXTH CAPBA8. 99 

fait of salt, three tea-spoonfy s of pepper, and half a tea-spoon- 
M of Cayenne. After standing four days, give the whole a boil $ 
when cold, strain and filter the liquor through paper. Sleep in 
sEiall bottles to add to salad, or eat with meat. 

Wine Vinegar. — After making raisin wine, when the fruit 
has been strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hundred 
weight put fifteen gallons of water— set the cask, and put yeast, 
&o., as before. 

As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on 
which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be 
kept preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine 
were ready, that kind might be made ; if a great plenty of goose- 
berries made them cheap, that sort ; or if neither, then the sugar 
vinegar— so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow 
musfy. 

Nastiirtituns for Capers.-- Keep thorn a few days after thev 
are gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, 
cover. They will not be fit to eat for some months, but arc then 
finely fiavoured, and by many preferred to capers. 

To make Mustard.— Mix the best Durham fiour of mustard 
with boiling water till of a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly 
smooth ) add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar, close covered, 
and put onljr as much into the glass as will be used soon, which 
should be wiped daily round the edges. 

Another way, for immediate use. — Mix the mustard 
with new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw 
cream. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep 
well. 

The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as 
cheap. Doing alwinrs ready ; ana if the pots are returned, three- 
pence is allowed for each. 

A tea-spoonftil of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great im- 
provement, and softens it. 

Kitchen Pepper,— Mix in the finest powder one ounce of gin- 
ffer ; of cumamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, 
half an ounce each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in 
a bottle ; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. 

Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much 
farther than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, 
and should be done in quantities that may be wanted in three or 
four months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should 
be kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. 

To Dry Mushrooms.— Wipe them clean, and of the large 
take the brown, and peel ofPthe skin. Lay them on paper to d^ 
in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. 
When used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near 
their former size : to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry 
up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a 
good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. 

Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place, or in paper. 

Kufi^oom Fowder.-^Wash half a peck of large mushrooms 

02 



100 HUSHBOOlt POWDEB— ESSENCE OE ANCHOVIES. 

wLile quite fresli, and free from grit and dirt with flannel : scrape 
out the hlack part clean, and do not use any that are worm-eaten ; 

Jmt them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two 
arge onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two 
spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder ; simmer and shake them 
till all the liquor l>e dried up, but be careful they do not burn. 
Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough 
to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corked 
and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. A tea-spoonful will 
give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce ; and it 
is to be added just before sending, and one boil given to it after it 
is put in. 

TO Choose Aneliovies.— They are preserved in barrels, with 
bay salt : no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The 
best look red and meUoir, and the bones moist and oily ; the flesh 
should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smell. 

Essence of Anchovies. — Take two dozen of anchovies, chop 
them, and take out the bone, but with some of tlieir own liquor 
strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gently 
till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes ; when cold, strain 
and bottle it. 

To Keep Anchovies when the Liquor Dries.— Four on 
them beef orine. 

To Make Sprats Tasto like Anchovies.— Salt them 
well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wipe 
them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of com- 
mon salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a guar* 
ter of an ounce of sal prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, 
all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the 
fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Xeep in a cold place fas- 
tened down with a bladder. 

These are pleasant on bread and butter ; but use the best for 
sauce. 

Forcemeat to Force Fowls or Meat.— Shred a little ham, 
or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet, a small quan- 
tity of onion, some parsley, a very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, 
or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread 
crumbs. 

Found it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten 
and strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. 

Forcemeat, whether in the form of stuffingballs, or for patties, 
makes a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour it im-^ 
parts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. 

Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; but the 
following observations may be useful, and habit will soon give 
knowledge in mixing it to the taste. 

At many tables where everything else is well done, it is com- 
mon to find very bad stuffing. 

According to what it is wanted for, should be the selection from 
the following list, obnerving that of the most pungent articles, 
least must be used. I^o one flavour should predominate greatly 7 



FOBCEMEAT INGREDIENTS. 101 

yet, if several dishes be served tlie same day, there should be a 
marked variety in the taste of the forcemeat, as well as of the 
gravies. It should bo consistent enough to cut with a knife, but 
not dry and heavy. 

Forcemeat Ingredients.— 
Cold fowl or veal. Oysters, 

Scraped ham. . Anohovy. 

Fat bacon. Tarragon. 

Beef-suet. Savoury. 

Crumbs of broad. Pennyroyal. 

Parsley. Knotted Marjoram. 

White pepper. Thyme. 

Salt. BasU. 

Nutmeg. Yolks of hard eggs 

Yolk and white of eggs Cayenne, 
well beaten, to bind the Garlic, 
mixture. Shalot. 

Chives. 

Jamaica pepper, in fine pow- 
der, or two or three cloves. 
. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat 
may be made, without any striking flavour ; and to those, may be 
added some of the different ingredients of the second column, to 
vary the taste. 

For Cold Savoury Pies. — The same: only substituting 
fat, or bacon, for suet. The hvers (if the pie be of rabbit or 
fowls) mixed with fat and lean pork, instead of bacon, and sea- 
soned as above, are excellent. 
For Hare, see to roast, page 82. 
Ditto, for baked Pike, page 29. 
Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 29. 
Ditto, for Soles, page 29. 
Ditto, for Mackebel, page 28. 
Ditto, for Fish Pie, page 103. 

Very fine Forcemeat Balls, for Fish Soups, or Fish 
Stewed, on Maigre Days.— Beat the flesh and soft parts of a 
middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, 
tlie yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white 
pepper, witn two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ditto of 
oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long 
beaten : make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. 

Forcemeat as for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol.— A 
pound of fresh suet, one ounce or ready dressed veal or chicken, 
chopped fine, bread crumbs, a little shalot or onion, salt, white 
j^epper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon thyme 
linel^ shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, 
as will make the above in^edients into a moist paste : roU into 
aiaaU balls, and boil them m fresh lard, putting them in just as it 
bqils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them 
before the fire. If the suet bo moist or stale, a great many more 
efffts will be necessary. 



102 BIRECrtrOKS FOE SATOtTBY PIES. 

Balls made this way are remarkably light ; but beingf greasyy 
Bomo people prefer them with less suet ana eggs. 

Little Eggs fop Turtle.— Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a 
mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it 
into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes 
to harden. 

Browning) to Colour and Flavour Made Dishes.— 
Beat to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it into a 
Tery nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix 
it well over a clear fire, and when it begins to fit)th, hold it up 
higher ; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quan- 
tity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring 
all the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the 
same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of 
mace bruised, mree spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of wal- 
nut ketchup, some salt, and the finely pared rind of a lemon ; boil 
gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin till cold, take off the 
scum, and bottle for use. 

Casserol, or Bice^ Edging for alCurrie, or Fricassee. 
— ^After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, 
nd a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash ; drain, and put 
it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches ; 
smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk of 
egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then sei*ve 
the meat m the middle. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. 

SAVOUBY PIES. 

(feuit pies will be placed undee the head pastbt.) 

Observations on Savowry Pies. 

There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than 
relishing pies, if properly made $ and they may be made so of a 
great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in 
that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is 
used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will tako 
more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of 
the crust willaUow ; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form ; 
observe the following preparation : — 

Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for instance) that 
has fat and lean \ wash it, and season it with salt, pepper, mace, 
and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the 
fiide of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it ; put to it a 
piece of butter, about two ounces, and cover it quite close ; let it 
just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is 
«old add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eg^s : and if it is in a 
^ish, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust, 

not put the gravy till after it is cold and in ieUy, as has been 



EEL PIE— COS PIB— I0B8IEB PIE. 108 

described in page 98. Forcemeat may be put both imder and 
orer the meat, if preferred to balls. 

Eel Fie. — Gut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season 
inth pepper, and salt, and place in a dish, with some bits of but- 
ter, and a little water ; ana cover it with paste. 

Cod Pie. — Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it 
well one night : next day wash it ; season with pepper, salt, and a 
TBr^ little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and put Some butter 
on it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. 

Cover it with a crust ; and when done, add a sauce of a spoon- 
ful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, 
ii grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may 
be added. 

Mackerel will do well, but do not salt them till used. 

Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters. 

Bole Fie. — Split some soles from the bones, and cut the fins 
close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and 
pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat 
excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a 
hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or 
three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes 
Is^me, pour in a cupful of thick cream. 

ghrimp Fie, excellent.— Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they 
are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two 
Mince two or three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then 
season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, 
and cover the shrimps with a glass of sharp white wine. The 
paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. 
. Lobster Fie. — Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the 
tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, 
and lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws and that 
you have picked out of the body ; pick off the furry parts from the 
latter, ana take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar : like- 
wise all the shells : set them on to stew with some water, two or 
three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some poimded mace : 
a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the 
ffoodness of the shells is obtained ; give a boil or two, and pour 
mto the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over 
all ; bake idowly, but only till the paste be done. 

A remarkably fine Fish Fie.— Boil two pounds of small 
eels ; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh oflT, and throw 
the bones into the liquor, with a litUe mace, pepper, salt, and a 
slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make forcemeat 
of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon peel, salt, pepper, and 
crumbs, ana four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the 
bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed 
Wbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt 
imd pepper ; pour the gravy over and bake. 

Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. 

FUchard and Leek Fie.— Clean and skin the white part of 
S<>me largo leeks ; scald in milk and wator^ and put them in layers 



104 BEISF. STEIK PJE— CALF'S HEAD PIE. 

into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilcharda* 
which hare been soaked for some hours the dajr before. Cove^ 
the whole widi a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of 
the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the 
liquor ; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. 

Beef Steak Pie.— ^Prepare the steaks as in page 44, and when 
seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them m a dish with puff 
paste round the edges ; put a Httle water in the dish, and cover it 
with a good crust. 

Veal Pie. — Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; 
season it ; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean ba^on 
or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and 
nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs : and 
if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut 
into small bits, and cock's-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich 
gravy ready to pour in after baking. It will be very good with- 
out any of the latter additions. 

A Bich Veal Pie.— Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal ; 
season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in 
powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same 
manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish ; then put the 
meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up 
to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices 
of ham, and M the dish with water ; cover, and when it is taken 
out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoon- 
fuls of good veal gravv, and some cream to fill up ; but first boil it 
up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, &c. if approved. 

Veal (or Chicken) and Parsley Pie.— Cut some slices from 
the leg or neck of veal ; if the leg, from about the knuckle. 
Season them with salt : scald some parsley that is picked &om the 
stems, and squeeze it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom 
of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in lavers. Fill the dish 
with new milk, but not so hi^h as to touch the crust. Cover it, 
and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in a pint 
of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and 
made in the same way. 

Veal Olive Pie. — Make the olives as directed in page 53 ; put 
them round and round in the dish, making the middle highest. 
Fill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy, cream, 
and flour. 

Cairs Head Pie.- Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating 
with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of herbs, a 
blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three pints of water. 
Keep the broth for the pie. Take off* a bit of the meat for the 
balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the 
broth till it is very good. Half boil the head, and cut it in square 
bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then some head, first fat 
then lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the 
dish be full ; but be particularly careful not to place the piece? 
close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for 
^^^ jellj'. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with 



POKK PIE— MUTTON PIE— SQTJAB PIE. 105 

pepper and saU, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little 
t^ater and a little ^ravy into tne dish, and cover it with a tolerable 
thick crust ; bake it in a slow oven, and when done, pour into it 
tii much gr&ry as it can possibly hold, and do not cut it till per- 
fectly cold ; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and 
first cut out a large bit, going down to the bottom of the dish; 
and when done thus, thinner slices can be cut: the dif- 
ferent colours, and the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled 
appearance. 

A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high season- 
ing, oysters, mushrooms, tmfHes, morels, &c., has a very good ap- 
pearance. 

The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side- 
dish. 

Instead of isinglass, use a calf's foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly 
is not likely to be stiff enough. 

The pickled tongues of former calves* heads may be put in to 
vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. 

Excellent Fork Pies, to eat Gold.— Raise common boiled 
crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose : have ready 
the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; 
and if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat 
it well with a rolling-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep 
the fat and lean separate. Put in layers quite close up to the top : 
lay on the lid : cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it j bake m 
a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for 
raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put 
into a common dish, with a very plain crust, and be quite as 
good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie ; the out- 
side of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and 
pressed close. 

Mutton Pie. — ^Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that 
has hung ; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Season with 
salt, pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water at the bottom of 
the dish, and a little paste at the ed^e ; then cover with a mode- 
rately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone 
in two to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. 
When they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of 
a hit of mutton. 

Squab Pie. — Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows 
with mutton chops : shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, and 
also some su^ar. 

Lamb Pie. — Make it of the loin, neck, or breast ; the 
breast of house lamb is one of the most delicate tilings that 
can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper 
and salt ; the bono taken out, but not the gristles ; and 
a small quantity of jelly gravy be put in hot; but the pie 
sliould not be cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before 
baking. 

' Grass lamb makes an exeellent pie, and may either be boned or 
noty but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with only 



106 CHICKBN PIB^aBBBK OOOSE PIE-^BVCK FIE. 

pepper and salt j put two spoonfals of water before baking, and 
as muck gravy when it comes from the oven. 

2ioie. — Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and 
put in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut up two young fowls ; season with white 
pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder ; 
likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh 
gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls, and nard eggs, by turns in 
layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none 
if in a raised crttst. By the time it returns from the oven, have 
ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some 
shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and 
white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, 
morels, mushrooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made 
in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it ; but, in a raised crust, 
the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. 
To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of 
two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a 
fine lawn sieve. 

Habbits, if young and in fiesh, do as well : their legs should 
be cut short, and the oreast bones must not go in, but will help to 
make the gravy. 

Green Goose Pie. — ^Bone two young green geese, of a good 
size; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. 
Wash them clean $ and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, 
and allspice. Put one inside the other ; and press them as close 
as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter 
over them, and bake them either with or without crust ; if the 
latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It 
will keep long. 

Duck Pie. — ^Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl ; wash 
them and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of 
mace and allspice, in the unest powder. Put the fowl within the 
duck, and in the former a calf's tongue pickled red, boiled very 
tender and peeled. Press the whole close; the skins of the legs 
should be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowls may be 
quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the 
crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat made according to the 
second receipt given for making forcemeat in page 100. Bake it 
in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish with a thick 
crust, ornamented. 

The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above : but with a 
goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, ti^.en a fowl ; and 
either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat in the middle. 

Giblet Pie. — ^After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, 
stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold ; 
and if not enough to fill the dish, ky a beef, veal, or two or three 
mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with 
the above ; and when the pie is baked pour into it a large tea- 
cupful of creanif Sliced potatoes added to it eat eiLtremely weU» 



PABTBID01S PIE— PHEXCH PIB— VEGBTA.BLB PIR. 107 

Pigeon Fie.— Bub the pigeons with pepper and salt, in- 
fiide and out ; in the latter put a little butter, and, if approved, 
some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same sea- 
soning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds 
on it ; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the 
dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each 
pigeon ; it is a great improvement to the flavour. 

Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under 
part rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them 
in the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole made in the 
crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. 

Partridge Pie in a Dish. — Pick and singe four partridges ; 
cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped 
parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of 
ham at the bottom of the dish : put the partridges in, and 
half a pint of good broth. Put pun paste on the ledffo of the dish, 
and cover with the same ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. 

Hare Pie, to Eat Cold.—Season the hare afler it is cut up ; 
and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or disli. 
When it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly- 
gravy, as in page 93. 

A Prenen 2^ie. — ^Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the 
dish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, 
with forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke bottoms, 
and a few truflles. 

Vegetable Pie.— Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut 
carrots, turnips, artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, let- 
tuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have ; make the whole 
into a nice stew, with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over 
A dish, with a little lining* round the edge, and a cup turned 
up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and 
pour in the stew. 

Parsley Pie.—Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, 
seasoned, into a dish ; scald a colander-^U of picked parsley in 
milk $ season it ; and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful 
of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour 
into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a 
walnut of butter and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with 
the gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to 
the parsley, and scalded before put in. 

Turnip Pie.—Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, re- 
serving the end of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which 
must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. 

Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add 
sliced onions. Cover with a crust. 

Potatoe Pie* — Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; 
season them; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put 
layers of them and of the meat. 

An Herb Pie,— Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stemsi 



108 OBSEBYATIONS ON MAKING PTTDDINGS AND PANCAKES. 

half the quantity orspinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cvesstg 
a few leaves of borage, and white beet leaves ; wash, and boil tUeoi 
a little ; then drain, and press out the water ; cut them small t 
mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a 
batter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a 
pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs ; cover with a good. crust 
and bake. 

Raised Onist for Meat Pies or Fowls, fee—Boil watet 
with a little fine lard, an equal quantity of fresh dripning, or of 
butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much 
flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to he 
smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it 
with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, 
or under a pan, to soak till near cold. 

Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thuR : 
EoU the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bot- 
tom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom 
to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather farther out, and 
pinching both together ; put egg between the edges of the paste, 
to make it adhere at the sides. Eill your pie, and put on the 
cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mod^ 
of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into 
a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be 
filled and covered ; but in the latter case the tin should be but- 
tered, and carefullj'^ taken ofl* when done enough ; and as the form 
usually makes the sides of a fighter colour than is proper, the paste 
should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With 
a feather, put egg over at first. 

PUDDINGS, &e.— Observations on making Puddings 
and Pancakes. — The outaide of a boiled pudding often tastea 
disagreeably, which arises from the.^oth not being nicely washed, 
and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, 
squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loose ; if batter, tight over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and 
it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should 
not mix. 

Batter pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when 
all is mixed. In others the eggs separatoly. 

The pans and basins must be always buttered. 

A pan of cold water should be ready and the pudding dipt in as 
soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not acmere to the 
cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs ; but they must 
have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or four hours, 
A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer ' 
instead of eggs. 

Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one 

'?, and the article it is used in will be equally good. ThLs is a 
\1 piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the 



ALUOKD PtrBDINGS^-BBEAD AND BTJTTEB FTTDDINa. 100 

fieasoQ when egga are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt 
liquors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken 
up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its 
virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. 
* JVofe. — The yolks and whites beaten separately, make the articles they are 
put into much lighter. 

Almond Puddings. — Beat half a pound of sweet and a few 
bitter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of 
butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, 
one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some 
oups, half fill, and bake the puddings. 

Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding. — Beat fine four ounces of 
almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, the yolks of 
six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a 
cjuart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake 
it half an hour, with paste round the dish. 

Small Almond Pudding. — Pound eight ounces of almonds, 
and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; mixed with four 
ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs ; 
suffar to taste ; two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix 
well, and bake in httle cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. 
. Sago Pudding. — Boil a pint and a half of new milk with four 
spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon peel, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg ; sweeten to taste, then mix four eggs, put a paste 
round the dish and bake slowly. 

Bread and Butter Pudding.— Slice bread spread with 
butter, and lay it in a dish with currants between each layer, and 
sliced citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an 
iB^oiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and 
a ver^ little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked, and 
Idde it over to soak the bread. 

A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but it 
is not necessary. 

Orange Pudding.— Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to 
it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar 
pounded ; beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it 
the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw 
apple and mix with the rest ; put a paste at the bottom and sides 
of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. 
Half an hour will bake it. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of orange paste with four of 
sucar, six eggs, four ounces of butter warm, ana put into a shallow 
disli with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. 

An excellent Lemon Pudding.— Beat the yolks of four 
eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being 
ribbed with some lumps of it to take the essence ; then peel, ana 
beat it in a mortar with the juice of a largo lemon, and mix all 
with four or Rye ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a 
shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When 
served, turn the pudding out of the dish. 



A very fine Amber Fuddiiig.**-'Pat a potind of butter into 
a saucepan, with three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely 
powdered : melt the butter, and mix well with it ; then add the 
yolks of fifteen ep:g8 well beaten, and as much fresh candied 
orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a 
fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out ; and when 
well filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pic, 
and bake in a slow oven. 

It is as good cold as hot. 

Baked Apple Padding.— Fare and quarter four large apples, 
boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, 
when done, none majjr remain j beat them quite fine in a mortar, 
and add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, 
the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, 
and sugar to taste ; beat aU together, and lay it in a dish with 
paste to turn out. 

Oatmeal Pudding.— Four a quart of boiling milk over a pint 
of the best fine oatmeal ; let it soak all night ; next day beat two 
eggs, and mix a little salt ; butter a basin that will just hold it : 
cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. 
Eat it with cold butter and salt. 

When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it -as oatcake buttered. 

Butch Pudding, or Souster.— Melt one pound of butter 
in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, 
four spoonfuls of yeast, add one pound of currants, and a quarter 
of a ^ound of sugar beaten and sifted. 

This is a very good pudding hot, and equally so as a cake wheu 
cold. If for the latter, caraways may be used instead of currants. 
An hour will bake it in a quick oven. 

A Dutch Bice Pudding*— Soak four ounces of rice in warm 
water half an hour ; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a 
stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and 
simmer till tender. When cold, add four whole eggs well beaten, 
two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of fresh cream, and 
put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece 
of lemon peel. 

Fut a hght puff i^aste into a mould or dish, or grated tops and 
bottoms, and bake m a quick oven. 

Light or German Puddings or Puffs.— -Melt three ounces 
of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold ; then 
mix two Qunces of fine fiour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks 
and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. 
Bake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. Thej should be served 
the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or 
they will not be light. 

Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. 

Iiittle Bread Puddings. — Steep the crumb of a penny loaf 
grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, 
whites and yolks, and mix with the bread and two ounces of butter 
warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little 
nutmeg, and a toa-cupful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea- 



oaoB buttered. If cnrrante are chosen, a quarter of a pound is 
BufScient, if not, they are good without ; or you may put orange or 
lemon candy. Serre with pudding sauce. 

Puddings in haste.— Shred suet, and put with grated bread, 
a few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 
some grated lemon peel, and ginger. Mix, and make into 
little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little 
flour. 

Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. 
Twenty minutes will boil them, but they will rise to the top when 
done. 

Pudding sauce. 
^' Kew College Puddings.— Grate the crumb of a twopenny 
loaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of cur- 
rants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sagor, 
half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. Mix, 
and make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound 
of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted and quite hot, stew 
them gently in it over a stove ; turn them two or three times 
till of a fine ligbt brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the butter. 

Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding.— Grate white bread, pour boiling 
milk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat 
it fine, and mix it with two or three eggs well beaten. 

Put it into a basin that will just holcTit ; tie a fioured cloth over 
it, and put it into boiling watei:. Bend it up with melted butter 
poured over. 

It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 

P^nmes, or Prench plums, make a fine pudding instead of 
raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. 

Another and Bioher.— -On half a pint of crumbs of bread 
pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat up 
four eggs, and when strained add to the bread, with a tea-spoonful 
of fiour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of 
currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-fiower water, 
half an ounce of orange-peel, and the same of lemon and citron. 
Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, tie tight 
over, and boil one hour. 

Brown Bread Pudding.— Half a pound of stale brown bread 
grated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg ; 
mix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonfuls of 
cream ; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it tluree or four 
hours. 

Nelson Puddings.— Put into a Dutch oven six small cakes 
called Nelson balls, or rice cakes made in small tea-cups. When 
quite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white wine and 
sugar; ana serve. 

Eve's Pudding.— Grate three quarters of a pound of bread j 
mix it with the same quantitjr of sHred suet, the same of apples, 
land also of currants ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and 
therindof half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape; bou three 



AVMjr Sm A^BSr Paiddiiu|.— Pat B pound of butter Into 
m Mr<|»>. with thna quuten m k pound of loaf aagar finely 
povdenvt: ndt (ka bnlter, ind mix well with it; then odd the 
jvlkt of fiftcoi ^Ega w«U bemten, and u mach firesh Bandied 
««•>■• •• will add cdoor and flBToor to it. being fint beaten to a 
Gb« P**t». Line the dish with paste for tnmiog out; and when 
vtll filled with the abon, Uj a cnut orer, aa yon n-oold a pio, 
WBd beike is a alow oven. 
N food eold aa hot. 



b«l tL 

whMi done. I 

the jolta of fire and whitea of three egg», juice of half a lemon, 
•ttd Mt«r to taele ; beat all together, and lay it in a dish viilh 
rmt*tatmrm<m%. 

Oatmeal PoddilW.— Rmr a voart of bculiuE nulk over a pint 
of the beet fiiteoatiMoli let it aoat all night; next day beat two 
*«8«. Utd Mix a little eah ; battn a bacin that will just hold it : 
eorer il liriit «<(h a floored doth, and boil it an hour and a half. 
Ktt it with n4d butt(T and salt 

^MM« n4d. aliee and toast it, and eat it «■ oatealce battered. 

DutcA Poddinc or SooBter.— Helt one mnud of butter 
Ukhalfainnt of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, 
fow ^pooaAila of :reut, add one pound of onrrants, and a quarter 
of « (owtd <tf wmr bMitm and sifted- 

Thw ia a veiy nod pud^ng hot, and eqaallr lo aa a cake when 
««M. If for the latlM-.earawsramaj be nsad instead of cnrrantB. 
A* kKi«r will bake it in a qviek oren. 

A. X>uteh BlM PoddliiC*— Soak fbnr ouncea of rice in warm 
«*tor half an boar i drain the Intter from it, and throw it into a, 
•tewpan. with half a p int of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and 
ai«w >i;» till tmder. When cold, add fbnr whole eggs well beaten, 
t«\t mtnere of butter melted in a tea-cnpAd of fresh cream, and 
p«it IhrM ouncea of mgar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece 
oftMttonprel. < 

I\il a 1^1 pnff parte into a mould or dish, or grated 
bettom*. and h^v* *« ■ -nuv »». 

ofbwttwinaii 

tnis (w« 9«neN 
Md two whitea 
Bake in little v 
theoKumeAt th 
ther will not bi 

iWnouti^fl 

LilU* Btm 
fMled. iit ah«mt 
« bite* and ,Tx)lk 
wnnued, auiMTi 
nwlmctt ana • < 



f«™nl,anol,ttoj™Booawilloiili oryo»m»yP 

«mon candy. Serre with pudding sauce. ^^^ ^^gad. 

* '•» SSSt,, 11. ,olV. of te •«• si™" make into 
R"o. g„M i„on p.«l. mi ?«•'' , „ ', Ji with a little 
yttle bails about tlie aiae and Siape of an egg, 
"oiip. , throw them in. 

a,To re«Jj a aWlet of boijiiiB "'"I'lfSje to tlio top wlna 
Twenty minutee will boil tliem, but they will 180 to 1 

"One. 

r &dtliiig sanoe. „ ^ ., „ „mmb of a twopenny 

'. New flonoge Pudding^-Oiate tlieeto»° ■;„„„„ of ,„,. 
loaf, Bhred auet eiglit oonceB, and mix witn I'Bj^ dful of sugar, 
put., one of citron miiod fine, one of ""JS.ii. .eparetely. Mn, 
Itulf , nutmeg, tl™, eggi beaten, yolk "Hi's? pjt half • POund 
"m<i mdie inS) tlio .ii« Bid .bnno of a B""^''.^ .uite hot, etew 
o,f bmter into a frying.pm, and wlien melted ano ^ ^^^ ^,^^8 
them gently in it oyer a itoye i turn 5v«°„E°,°th the butter. 
tUlofSs„ light brum, Mij.gia." of brandy""' 

Serve with pudding-aauoe. „ ^ , ,,„ hread, pour boiling 

Boiled Bread Pudding.-Grate white "t^^ „ two, beat 

milk oyer it, and cover otaT -When waked en "^ 

It flnc, and mi, it with two or tbree ..«■«" "Xured elotb over 

. Putitintoab«.inthalwillimitl>oHi',;"?ii(h melted bulf 

It. and put it into boiling walir. Seui " ™ " 

poured over. , ( 

Itmay be eaten with aalt or auger. ™ddiBg inatead oi 

Prunes, or French plums, msia * ^" " „ v .1 

"iflu". either with suet or bread puddif g'. , , „,uBl>i of '^ 

Another and Bichar.— On wuf *P'5^°'o hour. BeatM 

pour helf a ^Sr,SZ, milt i 5?'?^ "thTtea-spoo* 

ftur oen., .„d when Mrainoa add to the l™". "J ^j, , jouad o 

ot Hour, nn ».,»„. „r i..,ifj,T. two ouncea oi ."UBin^I). flnwer watei 

„; aad citroi 

doth, tie tigl 

JebrownW 
„,aadauOne 
^ apoonfulB 
lit three or It 

, ai« ■mull «J 
»».cupe. ." 
._ white wine i 

pound of hrc 
e same of apl 
of four egp. 
abape i boil t 



112 QITAXING PITSPIVG— TRAirSPAIUSKT P17J>]>IKG. 

hours ; and serve with pudding sauce, the juice of half a lemon, * 
and a little nutmeg. 

Qua^kin^ Pudding. — Scald a quart of cream ; when almost 
cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flou^, 
some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close m a buttered cloth ; boil it 
an hour, and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Serve ' 
with melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. 

JDuke of Cumberland's Pudding.— Mix six ounces of'' 
grated bread, the same quantity of currants well cleaned and . 
picked, the same of beef suet finely shred, the same of chopped' 
apples and also of lump su^ar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of 
salt, the rind of a lemon mmced as nne as possible ; ana citron, 
orange and lemon, a largo spoonful of each cut thin. Mix 
thoroughly, and put into a basin, cover very close with floured 
cloths, and boil three hours. 

Serve it with pudding sauce, and the juice of half a lemon, 
boiled together. 

Transparent Pudding.-— Beat eight eggs very well; put 
them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded ^ne, the " 
same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the 
fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it into a basin '.' 
to cool ; put a rich pun paste round the edge of the dish ; pour in ' " 
your pudding, and oake it in a moderate oven. It will cut lignc 
and clear, xou may add candied orange and citron, if you like. ' 
• Batter Pudding. — Bub three spoonfuls of fine fiour ex^ . 
tremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk; simmer till ^ > 
thickens ; stir in two ounces of butter ; set it to cool ; then ada 
the yolks of three eggs : fiour a cloth that has been wet, or butter 
a basin, and put the batter into it ; tie it tight, and plunge it into 
boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a hal^ ' 
and serve it with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nut* 
meg, and lemon peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. 

Batter Pudding with Meat. — Make a batter with fiour, 
milk, and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding dish ; 
then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred 
onion; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a 
slow oven. 

Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared 
of most of the fat. 

Bioe Small Pudding.— Wash two large spoonfuls of rice; 
and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of 
an egg of batter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it 
one boil. When cold mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well - 
beaten, sugar and nutmeg, to taste ; and add grated lemon, and a 
little cinnamon. 

Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at bottom, - 
some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in sS- 
slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, with swee V ' 
sauce in the dish, or a boat. 

Plain Bice Pudding.— Wash and pick some rice ; thro#' ' 
among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much ; tie the nee * ' " 



filCE PUDDI2SG— POTATO PTTDDIKG. 113 

in a cloth, and leave plen^ of room for it to swell. Boil it in a 
quantity of water for an nour or two. When done, eat it with 
batter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon peel if you please. 

It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. 

A Bich Bice Fudding.— Boil half a pound of rice in water, 
with a little bit of salt, till quite tender ; drain it dr^r, mix it with 
the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, 
witli two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces 
of beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, 
finely shred, three quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls 
of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated 
lemon peel. When well mixed, put a paste roimd the edge, and 
fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if ap- 
proved. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Bice Pudding with Fruit.— Swell the rice with a very little 
milk over the fire ; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, 
gooseberries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black 
currants) ; with one egg in the rice, to bind it ; boil it well, and 
serve with sugar. 

Baked Bice Pudding.— Swell rice as above ; then add some 
more milk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon peel. Bake in a 
deep dish. 

Another, for the Family. — ^Fut into a very deep pan half a 
pound of rice washed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four 
ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. 
Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. 

A George Pudding.— Boil very tender a handful of whole 
rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon peel. 
Let it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled 
to pulp as dry as possible : add a glass of white wine, the yolks of 
five eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut thin ; make it pretty 
sweet. Line a mould or basin with a very good paste : beat the five 
whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other 
ingredients : fill the mould, and bake it of a fine bright colour. 
Serve it with the bottom upward with the foUowing sauce : two 

glasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two egfgs, and a 
it of butter as large as a walnut ; simmer without boiung, and 
pour to and from the saucepan, till of a proper thickness ; and put 
m the dish. 

An excellent Plain Potato Pudding.— Take eight ounces 
of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks and whites of 
two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, 
a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; 
sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted 
richer, put three ounces more butter, sweet-meats and almonds, 
and another egg. 

Potato Pudding with Meat.— Boil them till fit to mash ; 
rul> through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk 
and two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some 
batter, and over tne last layer put the remainder of the batter. 
Bake a fine brown. 



114 BSEV 8XSA1C VXTDTfltfeh^WmOV FlTDBIKa. 

Steak or Sidney IPudding.— If kidney, split and soak it, 
and season that or we meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and 
milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some ; put the kidney or 
steaks in, cover with paste and pinch round the edge. Cover with 
a cloth, and boil a considerable time. 

Beaf Steak Pudding.— Prepare some fine steaks as in 
page 44i *, roll them with fat between, and if you approve shred 
onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and 
put in the rollers of steaks; cover the basin with a paste, 
and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth 
tied dose, and let the pudding bou slowly, but for a length of 
time. 

Baked Beef Steak Pudding.— Make a batter of milk, two 
eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and 
mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of the 
dish, then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very well 
seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake 
it. 

Mutton Pudding. — Season with salt, pepner, and a bit of 
onion ; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of tne dish, and pour 
a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and 
mixed with milk and an eg^ over them ; then putting the rest of 
the steaks and batter, bake it. 

Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires 
more egg, and is not so good. 

Anoxner. — Cut slices off a leg that has been underdone, and 
put them into a basin lined with a fine suet orust. Season with 
pepper, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot. 

Suet Pudding. — Shred a pound of suet, mix with a pound 
and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and 
as little milk as will make it. B<nl four hours. It eats well next 
day cut in slices and broiled. 

The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes 
a more delicate pudding than suet. 

Veal Suet Pudding.—Cut the crumb of a threepenny loaf 
into slices ; boil and sweeten two (quarts of new mUk and pour 
over it. When soaked, pour out a little of the milk, and mix with 
six eggs weU beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread 
into a dish, with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound 
of each. Butter the dish well, and bake j or you may bofl it in a 
basin, if you prefer it. 

Hunter's Pudding.— Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto 
currants, ditto raisins stoned and a little cut, tne rind of half a 
lemon shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica neppers in fine 
powder, fDur eggs, a glass of brandy;, a little salt, and as little 
milk as will make it or a proper consistence ; boil it in a floured 
cloth, or a melon mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet 
sauce. Add sometimes a spoonfld of peaeh«water for change of 
flavour. 

This pudding will keep, after it has been boiled, six months, if 
kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up fdded in a sheet of 



CirSTABI) tXnXDTS^-^UAOOABOVl VWDUVXH. 115 

flip-paper to preienre it firom doit, being first cold* When to be 
need it muit boil a full hotxr. 

Oommon Plmn Pudding.— The name proportioiu of flour 
lud Buety and half the quantity of fruity with tpice, lemon, a slase 
of wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an exoelleDt 
imdding if long boiled. 

' ChiBtard Fuddiag.-^Mix hj decrees a pint o£ good milk with 
« large spoonful of flour, yolks of fire egffSi some orange-flower 
w»ter, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that will 
exaotly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth orer. 
FuH in boiling water over the Are, and turn it about a few minutes 
to prevent the effg going to one side. Half an hour will boil it. 

Fut currant jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Mftooaroni Fudding»--Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe 
sort in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon and cinnamon tiU 
tender ; put it into a dish, with milk^ two or three eggs, but only 
one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a 
glass of raisin- wine. Bake with a paste round the edge. 

A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, in a maccaroni 
pudding, for change, is a great improvement j in which case omit 
the almond*>water, or ratafia, which you would otherwise flavour 
it with. 

Millet Pudding.— Wash ihree spoonMs of the seed; put it 
into the dish with a crust round the edges t pour over it as much 
new milk as will nearly All the dish, two ounces of butter warmed 
with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nut* 
meg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a 
spoonful 01 shred suet. 

Carrot Pudding.-— Boil a large carrot tender ; then bruise it 
in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonM of biscuit-powder, 
or three or four little sweet biscuits wimout seeds, four yolks and . 
two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little 
ratafia, a krffe spoonml of orange or rosewater, a quarter of a 
nutmeg, ana two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a snallow dish 
lined with paste, and turn it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted 
Offer, 

An excellent Apricot Pudding. — Halve twelve lacga 
apricots, tirive tiiem a scald till they are soft ; mettltSine '^M^n. 
the grated crumbs of a penny loaf, a pint of bbili&g orMn f W^n 
half cold, four ounces of sugar, the foYitu^fimc'hiiiime^aiAtLd 
a glass of white wine. Pound tk^ ttpvio^d in ft mortar wiftfi mne 
or all of the kernels ; ^ik^J^^ix lib« fMi mdi ^ther^ iiimdiiit^ 
together ; put a p^ute.round.a dish, and^bake the pu(ibtifi§ Mifiah 
hcrtir. " '' ' -' '■■ '•' ■ ■" '' "' " ' ■ •'" ' — •'^'■-' ^^ '^-^ J^"^^ - •- 

gfW ft' 

^ttkeifi _ _ 

ind whites df t£)fee''«ggs fi^^kt^ ^atid^ Btr«d»i^d, 8^d pi^ g&oX» «&d 
«t half of btittrtfj sweets it w^ll, Itod jW* a tJkffll? rdttnd'thb dish, 
Afiiwd^mliiof irOlltf JiiDuld be iSiii^^tmii^e tAo^'<l»-gir4) « 
^Ule'ikn^f&i1^c^,orfo\iroii^^efr^'Ni|^ c!io;::.i 

s 2 




108 CHICKBK PIB-*aBBBN QOOBE PIE'-STJCK FIE. 

pepper and salt ; put two apoonfuls of water before baking, and 
as mncb gravy wlien it comes from the oven. 

A^ote. — Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the grary on one side, and 
pot in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut up two young fowls ; season with white 
pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder ; 
fikevrise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, sUccs of ham, or fresh 
gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns in 
layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none 
if in a raised crtDst. Bv the time it returns from the oven, hare 
ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some 
shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and 
white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, 
morels, mushrooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made 
in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it ; but, in a raised crust, 
the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. 
To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of 
two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a 
fine lawn sieve. 

Babbits, if youngr and in flesh, do as well: their legs should 
be cut short, and the oreast bones must not go in, but wul help to 
make the gravy. 

Green Goose Pie. — ^Bone two young greeix geese, of a good 
size ; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. 
Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, 
and allspice. Put one inside the other ; and press them as close 
as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter 
over them, and bake them either with or without crust ; if the 
latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It 
will keep long. 

Duck Pie. — ^Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl ; wash 
them and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of 
mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within the 
duck, and in the former a calf's tongue pickled red, boiled very 
tender and peeled. Press the whole close ; the skins of the legs 
should be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowls may be 
quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the 
crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat made according to the 
second receipt given for making forcemeat in page 100. Bake it 
in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish with a thick 
crust, ornamented. 

The large pies in Stafibrdshire are made as above : but with a 
goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl ; and 
either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat in the middle. 

Giblet Pie. — ^After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, 
stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, 
aud a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Lot them grow cold ; 
and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three 
mutton steaks, at bottom. Pub the liquor of the stew to bake with 
the above ; and when the pie is baked pour into it a large toa- 
cupful of cream* Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well, 



VABTBIDGE PIS— PBEXCH 1»IB-— TEOBTABLB PIB. 107 

Pigeon Fie.—Eub the pifireons with pepper and salt, in- 
side and out ; in the latter put a little butter, and, if approved, 
some parsley chopped with tlie liverfl, and a littl'j of the same sea- 
soning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds 
on it ; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the 
diih ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each 
pigeon ; it is a great improvement to the flavour. 

Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under 
part rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them 
in the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole made in the 
crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. 

Partridge Fie in a Dish.— Pick and singe four partridges ; 
cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped 
parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of 
ham at the bottom of the dish : put the partridges in, and 
half a pint of good broth. Put pun paste on the ledge of the dish, 
and cover with the same ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. 

Hare Pie, to Eat Cold.--Sea8on the hare afler it is cut up ; 
and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or disli. 
When it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly- 
gravy, as in page 93. 

A French i*ie.— Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the 
dish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, 
with forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke bottoms, 
and a few truffles. 

Vegetable Fie.— Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut 
carrots, turnips, artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, let- 
tuce, parsley, celei^, or any of them you have ; make the whole 
into a nice stew, with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over 
a dish, with a little lining* i*ound the edge, and a cup turned 
up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and 
pour in the stew. 

Farsley Fie. — Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, 
seasoned, into a dish ; scald a colander-full of picked parsley in 
milk ; season it ; and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful 
of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour 
into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a 
walnut of butter and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with 
the gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to 
the parsley, and scalded before put in. 

Turnip Fie.— Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, re- 
serving the end of Uie neck bones to lay over the turnips, which 
must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. 

Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add 
sliced onions. Cover with a crust. 

Fotatoe Fie. — Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; 
season them J and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put 
layers of them and of the meat. 

An Herb Fie.— Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, 



lOS CniCZEH riB— flKEEN 

pepper and salt ; pnt two apoon 

aa muck Kravy tcIicil if: comes fi 

Ablf .—lleU pl«3 being fat, It is hi. 

put fn Bgaln by a funnel, Ht the cent ■ 

Chiclien Pie. — Out up twc 

tiepper, Bait, a little mace, and 
ikenise a little Cayenne. Fu' ; 
f;a!nmoD of bacon, forcemea' I 
aycra. If it is to be baked ic 
if in a raised crflSt. By the 
readF a gravy of knuckle of ) 
sliank-bones of mutton, sea' t 
white pepper. If it ia to 
morels, muahrooms, &c., ba' [ 
in a dish, put aa much grav 
the gravy must be niceiy si 
To make the jelly dear, yc ■ 
two eggs, after taking avi 
fine lann sieve. 

Babbits, if young anc i 

be cut short, and the ores i 

make the gravy. 

Qreen Goose Fie.- 
tir.e ; but first take a^ 
Wush them clean ; and ' 
and allapico, Put one 1 

as you can, dran-ina th 
over them, and bate ' 
latter, a cover to the d 
will keep long. 

Duck Pie.— Bone 
them and season with 
mace and allspice, iu i 

duck, and in the fo 
tender and peeled, 
should be drawn ii I 

quite smooth. If a 
crust may be filled 
second receipt giv( i 

in a stow orcn, eitl- i 

crust, ornamented. 
The large pies l i 



and if 
muttoi 
tlieabi 
cupful 



PISTBT-^MCH Tim TASTB. H0 

one large spoonful of oream, another of sweet wine, a squeejse of 
lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. 
It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a 
stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. 
Fry them i and serve as a sauce a glass of white wine, the 
juice of a lemon, one dessert-spoonful of peach leaf or almond 
water, and some white sugar warmed together, not to be served 
in the dish. 

Another w^. — BHoe potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, 
and fry them. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. Lemon 
peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water should be added to 
the butter. 

Bookings. — ^Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour with a tea- 
oupful of warm milk, and a si>oonful of yeast : let it rise before 
the fire about an hour ; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as 
much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pan- 
cakes, and fry them the same. 

FASTBl^.— Bioh Puff Paste.— Poffs may be made of any 
sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. 

Weigh any quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you 
judge necessary ; mix a little of the former with the latter, and 
wet with as little water as will make it into a stifi* paste. BoU it 
out, and put all the butter over it in sHces, turn in the ends, and 
roll it thm ; do this twice, and touch it no more than can be 
avoided. The butter may be added at twice; and to those 
who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to 

do 80. 

A quicker oven than for a short crust. 

A less rich Paste.— Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with 
a little water, and an egg well beaten-'-of the former as little as 
will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Eoll, and fold it three or 
four times. 

Bub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of 
butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a 
stifl* paste with as little hot water as possible. 

Crust for Venison Pasty.— To a quarter of a peck of fine 
flour use two pounds and a hau of butter, and four eggs ; mix into 
paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good con- 
sistence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of 
the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the.4ong con- 
tinuance in the oven. 

Bioe Paste for S^^eets.— Boil a quarter of a pound of ground 
rioe in the smallest quantity of wat^ : strain from it all the mois- 
ture as well as you can ; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of 
butter, and one egg well beaten, and it wiU make an excellent 
paste for tarts, &e. 

Bioh Paste for relishing things.— Clean, and put some 
rioe, with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk onl^, into 
a saacepan, and simmer till it swell Put seasoned chops into a 



108 OBSEEVATIONS ON MAKING PUDDINGS AND FANCAEKS. 

half the quantity of^pinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cresi^ 
a few leaves of borage, and white beet leaves ; wash, and boil them 
a little ; then drain, and press out the water ; cut them small s 
mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a 
batter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a 
pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs; cover with a good: crust 
and bake. 

Baised Crust for Meat Pies or Fowls, ^c.-j-Boil wateir 
with a little fine lard, an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of 
butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much 
flour as you will want, making the paste as stifi* as you can to be 
smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it 
with the roUing-pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, 
or under a pan, to soak till near cold. 

Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : 
Boll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bot^ 
torn of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom 
to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather farther out, and 
pinching both together ; put egg between the edges of the paste, 
to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the 
cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same modcr 
of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into 
a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall h& 
filled and covered ; but in the latter case the tin should be but- 
tered, and carefullj'^ taken off" when done enough ; and as the form 
usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste 
should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With 
a feather, put egg over at first. 

PUDDING'S, &c.— Observations on making Puddings 
and Pancakes. — The outaide of a boiled pudding often tastes 
disagreeably, which arises from the. doth not being nicely washed, 
and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, 
squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loose ; if batter, tight over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and 
it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should 
not mix. 

Batter pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when 
all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. 

Tlie pans and basins must be always buttered. 

A pan of cold water should be ready and the pudding dipt in as 
soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the 
cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs ; but they must 
have as Tittle milk as will mix, and must boil tbree or four hours. 
A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer 
instead of eggs. 

Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one 
egg, and the article it is used in will be eqnaliy good. This is a 
Mseful piece of information, especially as snow: often falls at the 



ALMOND PtrDDlNGS—BBEAB AND BUTTEB FT7DDING. lOd 

fieason when egga are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt 
liquors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken 
up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its 
virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. 

A'ofe. — The yolks and whites beaten separately, make the articles they are 
put into much lighter. 

Almond Puddings. — Beat half a pound of sweet and a few 
bitter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of 
butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, 
one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some 
cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. 

Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding. — Beat fine four ouuces of 
almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, the yolks of 
six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a 
quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake 
it half an hour, with paste round the dish. 

Small Almond Pudding. — Pound eight ounces of almonds, 
and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; mixed with four 
ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs ; 
suffar to taste ; two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix 
well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. 
. Sago Pudding. — Boil a pint and a half of new milk with four 
spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon peel, cinnamon, 
and nutmep: ; sweeten to taste, then mix four eggs, put a paste 
round the dish and bake slowly. 

Bread and Butter Pudding.— Slice bread spread with 
butter, and lay it in a dish with currants between each layer, and 
sliced citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an 
iB^faoiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and 
a very little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked, and 
lade it over to soak the bread. 

A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but it 
is not necessary. 

Orange Pudding. — Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to 
it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar 
pounded ; beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it 
the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw 
apple and mix with the rest ; put a paste at the bottom and sides 
of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. 
Half an hour will bake it. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of orange paste with four of 
sugar, six eggs, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow 
dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. 

An excellent Lemon Pudding.— Beat the yolks of four 
eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being 
rubbed with some lumps of it to take the essence ; then peel, and 
beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all 
with four or five ounces of butter wanned. Put a crust into a 
shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When 
served, turn the pudding out of the dish. 



U2 LEBiON HINCE 1PIB8— ICXira FOB TlATS^^EtTKE TABT. 



Ii^3ftO& Minoo Pies'* — Squeeze a large lemon, boil the out* 
Bide till tender enoush to beat to a mash, add to it three large 
apples chopped, and four oimces of suet, half a pound of ourraivts, 
four ounces of sugar ; put the juiee of the lemon, and candied fruii 
as for otiiier pies. MaJce a short crust, and fill the pattj-pans as 
usual* 

Egg Minoe Pies.-— Boil six eggs hard, shred diem small t 
shred double the quantity of suet ; tnen put currants washed and 

Sicked one pound, or more, if the eggs were large j the peel of one 
»mon shrea yeiy fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, 
mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt : orange, lemon, and citron* 
candied. MaJce a light pasta for them. 

Currant and Baspberry.-^'For a tart, line the dish, put 
sugar and fruit, lay bars across, and bake. 

Light Paste for Tarts and Cheeseoakes.^Beat the white 
of an eeg to a strong froth ; then mix with it as much water as 
will make tlu*ee quarters of a pound of fine fiour into a very stiff 
paste ; roll it veij thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of 
butter upon it m litUe bits; dredge it with some flour left 
out at first, and roll it up tight. Boll it put again, and put 
the same proportion of butter ; and so proceed till all be worJced 
up. 

loing for Tarts.-*-Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted 
butter well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar 
over as you put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash tibe 
paste, and sift white sugar. 

Pippin Tarts.— Pare in two Seville or China oranges, boil 
the peel tender, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty apples, 

Sut them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible : when half 
one, add half a pound of sugar, the orange peel and juice ; boil 
tiU pretty thick. When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or patty- 
pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 

Prune Tart.— Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and 
break them } put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, with the 
prunes and sugar ; simmer ; and, when cold, make a tart of the 
sweetmeat. 

Orange Tart.*^Bqueesse, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges 
tender, weigh them, and double of sugar ; beat both together to 
a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size 
of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat together. Choose a very 
shallow dish, line it with a light pufi* crust, and lay the paste of 
orange in it. You may ice it. 

Oodlin Tart. — Scald the fruit as will be directed under that 
article : when ready take ofi'the thin skin, and lay them whole in 
a dish, put a little of the water the apples were boiled in at bottom, 
strew them over with lump sugar or fine Lisbon ; when cold, put a 
paste round the edges and over the tart. 

You may wet it with white of egg, and strew sugar over, which 
looks very well : or cut the lid in quarters, without touching the 

Saste on the edge of the dish : and either put the broad end 
ownwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid 



altogether. Foiur a good eastard oyer it when eold, and eiffc sugar 
orer. 

Or, line the bottom of a •hallow dish with pastOi lay the apples 
in it, qweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars. 

Rhubarb Tart.— Cnt the stalks in lengths of four or five 
inches, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay 
them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, eover 
with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour } or do 
them in a block-tin saucepan. 

When oold, make into a tart, as oodlin. When tender, the 
baking the crust will be sufficient. 

Baspberry Tart with Oream;— ItoU out some thin puff 
paste, and lay it in a patty-pan of what size you choose ; put in 
raspberries j strew over them fine sugar j cover with a thin lid, and 
then bake. Out it open, and have ready the following mixture 
warm : half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well 
beaten, and a little sugar ; and when this is added to the tart, re- 
turn it to the oven for five or six minutes. 

Orange Tart.-*~Line a tart-pan with thin puff paste ; nut 
into it orange marmalade that is made with a^ple jelly ; lay 
bars of paste, or a eroquant cover over, and bake m a moderate 
oven. 

m*ied Patties;*— Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, 
mixed with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a 
ver^ small bit of lemon peel — add the liquor ot the oysters ; warm 
all in a tosserj but do not boil ; let it cool ; have ready a good 
puff paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; put some 
of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the 
gn,vy, and fty them of a fine brown. 

This is a very good thing i and baked, is a fashionable dish. 

Wash allpatties over with egg before baking. 

Oyster Patties. — ^Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pant, 
and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against 
they are baked nave ready the following to fill with, taking out 
the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts 
into small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, 
the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon peel, cut so 
small that you can scarcely see it, a very little cream, and a little 
of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill. 

Observe always to put a bit of crust into patties, to keep them 
hollow while baking. 

Oyster Patties, or Small Pies.— As you open the oysters 
separate them from the liquor, which strain ; parboil them, after 
taking off the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and cutting them in 
sHces, lay them and the oysters in layers, season ver^jr lightly with 
salt, pepper and mace. Then put half a teacup of liquor, and the 
same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put 
a teacup of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cup of white 
gravv, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters 
should be cut in small dice, gently stewed, and seasoned as above, 
and put into the paste when ready for table. 



124 VEAL PATTIEft— SWEET PATTIES— A:^PLE PUFPfl. 

Lobster Fatties. — ^Make with the same seasoning, a littfe 
cream, and the smallest bit of butter. 

Fodovies, or Beef Fatties.— Shred underdone dressed beef 
with a little feit, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or 
onion. Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like aa 
api>le puff, fill it with the mince, pinch the edges, and try them or 
a nice brown. The paste should he made with a small quantity of 
butter, egg, and milk. i 

Veal Fatties. — ^Mince some veal that is not quite done wit]vl> 
little parsley, lemon peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt ; add 
a little cream, and gravy just to moisten the meat ; and if you kav^ 
any ham scrape a little, and add to it. Do not warm it till tk0 
patties are baked. 

Turkey Fatties. — Mince some of the white part, and wiih 
grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, 
and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. r 

Sweet Fatties.— Chop the meat of a boiled calfs foot, of 
which you use the liquor lor jelly, with two apples, one ounce of 
orange and lemon peel candied, and some hresh peel and juice ; mix 
with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful .^ 
brandy, and four ounces of currants washed and dried. 

Bake in small patty-pans. 

Fatties resembling Mince Fies.— Chop the kidney and £a^ 
of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon peel candied, and fresh eur* 
rants, a little wme, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bi^ 
of sugar. Bake as before. 

Apple FufTs. — Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a ston^ 
jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp c^ 
the apple with sugar and lemon peel shred fine, taking as little 6£ 
the apple juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a qui<^ 
oven : a quarter of an hour will do them, when small. Orange, or 
quince marmalade, is a ^at improvement. Cinnamon pounded, 
or orange-flower water, m change. 

Iiemon Fufib. — Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double 
refined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it weU 
with the sugar ; then beat the whitea of three new-laid eggs a 

great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an 
our ; make it up in any shape you please, and bake it on paper 
put on tin plates, in a moderate oven. Do not remove the pap^ 
iili cold. Oiling the paper will make it come off with ease. 

Cheese Fiufs. — Cream cheese-curd from the whey, and beat 
half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a haif 
of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange-flow0r 
water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it pretty sweejjj. 
Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes, on a tin platff. 
If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Servp 
with pudding sauce. j 

Excellent Light FufEb.— Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a littlB 
grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little 
loaf sugar, and one eg^; then fry it enough, but not biowft; 
beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks : put a 



YENISOSr FASTT. 125 

aiumtity of lard in a filing-pan, and when quite hot drop a 
cMBsert-spoonfai of batter at a time : turn as they brown. Serve 
them immediately with sweet sauce. 

^ To prepare venison for Pasty.—Take the bones out, then 
Mason and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in lai'ge pieces, 
©our upon it some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one ; 
lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, 
ti saucepan^ of water over the fire, simmer three or four hours — 
then leave it in a cold place till next day. Eemove the cake of fat, 
lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not sufficiently 
seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or x>imento, as necessary. Put 
some of the gravy, and Keep the remainder for the time of serving. 
If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time 
to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the 
under part is seldom done through. 

Venison Pasty. — A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but 
it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supphed by 
that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours 
in equal parts of rape, vinegar and port. The shoulder being 
ftinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or 
tiiree days, and when to be used, wipe it perfectly clean from it, 
and the wine. 

A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too 
hiuch ; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven 
will be quite sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be 
preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in 
pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to 
each person without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay" some 
|>epper and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then 
the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not 
lie hollow to harden at the edges. 

' The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton 
•^•^f this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay butter 
on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick 
crust, but do not put one under the meat. Keep the remainder 
of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into the 
middle by a funnel, quite hot, and^shake the dish to mix well. It 
should be seasoned with pepper and salt. 

To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well 
as Venison.— Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or 
a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well 
Wi^ a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with four otmces 
of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar. 
Let it He five days and nights ; wash and wipe the meat very dry, 
itod season it very high with the best Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, 
and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put about a 
pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Fut a crust round 
the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone be- 
fore tile meat be soaked. It must be done in a slow oven. 

* Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than 
<wffl cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, 



126 POTATO PASTr—BICK CUSTAUf^LSVOK CUSTABBS. 

that you may lutTe a little rich gravy to add to tM paste when 
drawn. 

Note. — Sagar gives a greater shortness, and better flayonr to meats than 
salt, too great a quantity of which hardens, and it is quite as great a pre- ' 
servative. 

Potato Pasty. — Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine As 

Sossible, mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of bntter; 
fake a paste ; roll it out thin fike a larse puff, and put in the 
potato : fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake m a mode- 
rate oven. 

Oheap and Excellent Custards.— Boil three pints of new' 
milk, with a bit of lemon peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three 
bay leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a 
large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold nulk, and mix with 
it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling 
milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that to the boiling ; 
stirring it one Way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to 
boil up ; then pour it into a pan, and stir it some time ; add a 
large spoonM of peach water, two tea-spoonfuls of brandy, or ft 
little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard or anything likely to 
burn, will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it irom 
catching. 

^ Brich Costards. — ^Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and 
cinnamon ; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well 
beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough 
for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well ; then give 
the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Bo not let it 
boil; stir the whole time one way; season as above. If td 
be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the 
eggs. 

Baked Cii8tard.~Boil one pint of cream and half a pint 
of milk, with mace, cinnamon, and lemon peel, a little of each. 
When cold, mix the yolks of three eggs; sweeten and make your 
cups or paste nearly ^1. Bake them ten minutes. 

Iiemon Custards.— -Beat the yolks of eight eg^s till they are 
as white as milk : then put to them a pint of bouing water, the 
rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to your taste. 
Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a large glass of rich 
wine, and half a ^lass of brandy ; give the whole one scald, and 
put it in cin»8, to be eaten cold. 

Almond Custard. — ^Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds 
fine with a spoonful of water ; then beat a pint of cream with two 
spoonfuls of rose water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, 
and as much sugar aswiUmakeit pretty sweet; then add the 
almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper ^ck- 
ness ; but do not boil. Pour it into cups. 

Cheesecakes. — Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts 
of mUk ; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and 
mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded<blaa>chedl 
almonds, a little orange-fiower water, half a glass of raasip. wjipe, a 
grated bisooit, four ounoes of currantsi som^^Ht^Ei^^aiid «|im% 



LEHOSr CHBESECAKSS— OBAKGE CHXBflBCIASES. 127 

moa in fine powder, and beat all the above with three eggs, and 
half a pint of creanii till quite light ; then fill the patty -pans three 
parts lull. 

A Plainer Sort. — Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break 
i% and drain the whey ; when dry, break it up in a pan, with two 
oiunees of butter, till perfectly smooth : put to it a pint and a half 
of thin cream, or gooS milkTand add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, 
sad three ounces of currants. 

Cheeaeoakes, another way.— Mix the curd of three quarts 
of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a 
quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of 
one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, tiie yolks of 
eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, ana a glass 
of brandy. Put a light tniii puff paste in the patty-pans, and 
three parts fill them. 

Xiemon Cheesecakes. •» Mix four ounces of sifted lump 
sugar, with four ounces of butter, and gently melt it ; then add 
the yolks of two and the white of one egg, the rind of three 
lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, with one Saroy 
biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, and three spoonfuls of 
brandy ; mix well : put in paste made as follows :— Eip^ht ounces 
of fiour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which mix with the 
flour first, then wet it with six spoonfuls of water, and roll the re* 
mainder in. 

Another way. — Boil two fine large lemons, or three small 
(mes, and after squeezing, pound them weU toe[ether in a mortar, 
with four ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight 
ounces of fresh butter. 

Fill the patty-pans half full. 

Orange Cheesecakes are done the same way, only you must boil 
the peelin two or three waters to take out the bitterness, or make 
them of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. 

Orange Cneeseoakes. — When you have blanched half a 
pound of almonds, beat them very fine with orange-flower water, 
and half a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of but- 
ter that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must 
be nearly cold before you use it ; then beat the yolks of ten, and 
whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one 
with the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar tul as tender as mar- 
malade» without any lumps » and beat the whole together and put 
into patty-pans. 

Potato Cheeseoakes. — ^Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four 
ounces of lemon peel ; beat the latter in a marble mortar with 
four ounces of sugar ) then add the potatoes, beaten, and four 
ounces of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed, let 
it stuid to ffrow cold. Put crust in patty-pans, and rather more 
than half ml them. Bake in a Quick oven half an hour, sifting 
some double-refined sugar on them when going to the oven.-*- 
JFhis quantity will make a dozen. 

Almond Oheeseoakes.— Blanch and pound four ounces of 
sweet almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; then 



(( ATT nrryv-rrv >> 



128 BOYAL PASTE, CALLED " AU CHOUX. 

add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and tlie 
whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible : put 
into very small patty- pans, and bake in a pretty warm oven under 
twenty minutes. 

Another way.— Blancb and pound four ounces of almonds, 
with a little orange-flower, or rose water ; then stir in the yolks ^f 
six and whites of three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter 
warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juiea : 
sweeten with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake in a 
delicate paste, in small pans. 

Anotner way. — Press the whey from as much curd as will 
make two dozen small ones : then put it on the back of a sieve, 
and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of 
a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few 
bitter almonds pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd 
properhr sweet : mix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a 
glass of brandy. Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minutes 
will bake them. 

Dough Nuts. — ^Bub a quarter of a pound of butter into a 

Sound of flour, then add six ounces of sugar, three e^gs, about a 
essert spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff 
paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and cut it into shapes 
with a paste cutter, and boil them in lard, till they are of a nice 
brown colour. 

A Tippling Cake. — ^Put a sponge cake into a deep china or 
glass dish, pour round it some white wine (raisin is very suitable), 
and a wine glass of brandy. Let the cake soak up the wine, and 
then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich thick 
custard, according to your fancy. 

Boyal Paste, called ^'Au Choux.'^— This paste is the bsmis 
of many sorts of pastry : it is used to mix an infinite number of 
second-course dishes of various forms, and of different denomi^ 
nations. 

Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water; 
pour half a pint of water into it, with a quarter of a pound or a 
little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and 
the peel of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely 
melted. Then take some very fine dry flour and shake through a 
sieve. Take the lemon peel out with a ladle, and throw a hand- 
ful of flour into the preparation while boiling ; take care, how* 
ever, not to put more flour than the hquor can soak up. Stir with 
a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the 
stew-pan, and then take it off the fire. Next break an egg into 
this paste, and mix it well : then break a second, which also mit ; 
do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you must be 
careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost cer- 
tain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above quan« 
tity ; then form them en ckoux, by which is meant in the shape of 
a ball an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, 
you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking 
sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they may 



OBSEBTATIONS ON DRESSING TEOETATJLES. 129 

undergo a ffreater effect in the oven. Bnish tliem over as usual 

: with the dorure or egg- wash, to which hns been added a little 

; milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open 

the oven till they are quite baked, clherwise they would flatten, 

aud all attempts to make them rise again would be found 

to be useless : next dry them. Sometimes you may glaze 

• them ; at other times you may send them up without being 



To detach them from the baking sheet, apply the sharp edge of 
j'our knife, and take them oft' gently. Then make a small open- 
ing on tlie side, into which put with a tea-spoon such sweetmeats 
as you think proper, and send them up dished en huisson. 

K.B. — Be cautious to smell every egg before you use it, for a bad cue would 
spoil the whole. 

*'«'<• This elegant receipt is cxtrooted from " The French Cook," by 3Ir. 
Udc. 



VEGETABLES. 

Observations on Dressing Vegetables. 

Veobtables should be carefully cleaned from insects and nicely 
washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment 
they are done enough. If overboiled, they will lose their beauty 
and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat, which 
is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. 

To Boil Vegetables Green.— Be sure the water boils when 
you put the vegetables in. Make them boil very fast. Do not 
cover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you 
tnay be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take 
them, out immeaiately, or the colour wiU change. Hard water, 
especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as 
should be green. 

To boil them green in hard water, put a tea- spoonful of salt of 
wox'mwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are 
put in. 

Vegetable Marrow, to Boil or Stew.— This excellent 
vegetable may be boiled as asparagus. When boiled, divide it 
lengthways into two, and serve it up on toast accompanied by 
melted butter ; or when nearly boiled divide it as above, and stew 
gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose 
young ones not exceeding sk inches in length. 

To Keep Green Peas.— Shell, and put them into a kettle of 
water when it boils ; give them two or three warms only, and pour 
them into a colander. When the water drains off, turn them out 
oik a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth 
to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles, 
leaving only room to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch 
t^ok, and for the cork. Bosin it dov^n, and keep it in the cellar 
or in the earth, as will be directed for gooseberries under the hend 
of " Keeping for Winter." When they are to be used, boil them 

I 



ISO OBSESYATIOVS OH 9EE88ZHG TJSGSTABLES. 

till tender, witli a bit of butter, a spoonfiil of sugar, and a bit of 
mint. 

Another way (as praotised in the Emperor of Bussia's 
kitch^i). Shdl, scald, And dry them as above ; put them on tins 
or earthen dishes in a oool oven, once or twice to harden. Keep 
them in paper bags hung u^ in the kitchen. When they are to be 
used, let ih.em lie an hour m water ; then set them on with eold 
water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a ^rig 
of dried mint to boil with them. 

Boiled Peas should not be overdone, nor in much waiter. 
Chop some scalded mint to garnish th^em, and stir a piece of 
butter in with them. 

To Stew Green Peas.— Put a quart <^ peas, a lettuce and 
an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more 
water than hangs round the lettuce m>m washing. Stew them 
two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and 
stir it into them, or a bit of flour and butter. 

Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered suf?ar is an im- 
provement. Gravy may be added; but tiien there will be less of 
the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint and stew in them. 

To Stew Old Peas.— Steep them in water ail night, if not 
fine boilers, otherwise half an hour will do ; put them mto water 
just enough to cover them, with a good bit of butter or a piece of 
beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and 
the meat is tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little 
pepper. Serve them round the meat. 

To Dress Artichokes.— Trim a few of the outside leaves off, 
and cut ihe stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil dii^n. 
They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve 
them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are arti- 
chokes, to help with each. 

Artichoke Bottoms.— If dried they must be soaked, then 
stewed in weak gravy, and served witli or without forcemeat in 
each ; or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream sauce, 
or added to ragouts, French pies, &o. 

Jerusalem. Artichokes must be taken up the moment they 
are done, or thev will be too soft. 

They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee sauce. 

To Stew Ououmbers.— Slice them thick, or halve and di- 
vide them into two lengths ; strew some salt and pepper and 
slioed onions ; add a little broth or a bit of butter. Smmier very 
slowly, and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some 
and a little flour, or if there was buttw in, only a little nour, «m- 
less it wants richness. 

Anotiier way.— Slice the onions, and cut the cucumbers 
large; flour them, and fry them in some butter; tiien pour on 
some good broth or gravy, and atew theuk till done enough. Skim 
off the fat. 

To Stew Onions. — ^Peel six large onions ; fry gently of a^e 
brown, but do not blacken them ; then put them into a ^«fll 
«tew-paa with « little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; eoveg 



CATJLIFLOWBft IS WHITE SlITCB^BROOOOLI^-fiPIKACH 131 

« 

vxd stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured at 
first. 

Boast Onions shonld be done with all the skins on. They 
eat well alone with only salt and cold butter, or with roast pota- 
toes or beetroots. 

To Stew Celery .-^Wash six heads and strip off their outer 
leares, either halve or leave them whole, aoeording to their size ; 
cut into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stew-pan with a 
cup of broth or weak white ^avy, stew till tender ; then add two 
spoonfuls of cream and a httle flour and butter, seasoned with 
pepper, sa\t, and nutmeg, and simmer ail together* 

To Boil Cauliflowers.— Choose those that are close and 
white, cut ofl* the green leaves, and look carefully that there are 
no caterpillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then 
boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the saucepan 
that not the least foulness may fail on the flower. It must be 
served very white and rather crisp. 

Cauliflower in White Sauce.— Half boil it, then C4it it into 
handsome pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a 
bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepp^; simmer half 
an hour, then put a little cream, butter^ and flour; shake and 
simmer a few mmutes, and serve. 

To Dress Cauliflowers and Parmesan.— Boil a cauli- 
flower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk bo that the flower will 
stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew- 
pan with a little white sauce, let it stew tiU done enough, which 
will be but a few minutes, then dish it with the sauce roimd, and 
put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. 

To Dress Broccoli. — ^Cut the heads with short stalks, and para 
the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and 
boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put 
into the water. Serve with or without toast. 

Spinach requires great care in washing and piekinjg it. Whea 
that is done, throw it into a saucepan that will just hold it, 
sprinkle it with a lit<Ie salt, and cover close. The pan must be 
get on the flre, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach 
well with a small bit of butter : it must come to table pretty 
dry, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a 
large leaf, which is sola at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is 
an improvement. 

To I>ress Beans.— Boil tender with a bunch of parsley, which 
must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must 
be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. 

Fricasseed Windsor Beans.— When grown large, but not 
mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot ; just 
heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, 
do not use them for this dish. 

French BeQ>n8.— String, and cut them into four or eight ; the 
last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce- 
pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done 
«eiTe them immediately^ to preserve the gr^en colour. Or when 



132 T(X STBW BED CABBAGE— MUSHROOMS. 

half-done drain the water off, and put them into two spoonfuls of 
broth strained ; and add a httle cream, butter, and flour, to finish 
doing thera. 

To Stew Red Cabbage.— Slice a small, or half a large red 
cabbage, wash and put it into a saucepan with pepper, salt, no 
water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till 
quite tender ; and when going to serve, add two or three spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold 
meat, or with sausages on it. 

Another way. — Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it over 
a slow fire, with shoes of onion, pepper and salt, and a little plain 
gravy. Wben quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add 
a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of 
vinegar and boil up. 

Another. — Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew- 
pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the 
bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew 
covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more 
broth, Bslt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix 
these- well, ana noil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it 
into the dish, and Iny fried sausages on it. 

Mushrooms. — The cook should be perfectly acquainted with 
the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, 
as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly 
using the poisonous kinds. 

The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round 
form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part 
and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part 
graduaUy opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon- 
colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained 
some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should 
be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted 
from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yeUow 
fur should Be carefully avoided, though many of them have the 
same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. 

To Stew Mushrooms. — The large buttons are best, and the 
small flaps while the fur is still red. Eub the large buttons with 
salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off* the skin from 
the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with 
some pepper-corns ; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit 
of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream : give them one 
boil, and serve with sippetfl of bread. 

To Ste-^ Sorrel for Fricandeau and Boast Meat.— 
Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, 
with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as 
slow as you can, and when done enough put a bit of butter, and 
beat it wel^ 

French Salad. — Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some 
parsley, small ; put them into a bowl with two table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar, one of oil, a httle mustard, and salt. When well mixed, 
add oy degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; 



LOBSTER SAIiV— TO BOIL» ETC., POTATOES. 133 

put in a few at a time, not excecdinit 4wo or three inches long. 
Shake thorn in the seasoninor, and then put more ; but epver the 
bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three liours before it 
is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, and a few slices of 
the fat. 

liObster Salad. ~ Make a salad, and put some of the red 
part of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to 
the white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as 
shell-fish absoro the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, 
not a bowl. 

To Boil Potatoes. — Set them on a fire, without paring them, 
in cold water; let them half boil, then throw some salt in and a 
pint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour 
off the water, and put a clean cloth over them, and then the sauce- 
pan cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. , Many 
persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is 
peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the* same ; but be careful 
they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before 
dressing, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then 
wash. 

To Broil Potatoes.— Parboil, then slice and broil them. 
Or parboil, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a 
very slow fire, and when thoroughly done send them up with 
their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish 
families. 

To Boast Potatoes.— Half-boil, take off the thin peel, and 
roast them of a beautiful brown. 

To Fry Potatoes. — Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and 
fry them, either in butter or thin batter. 

To Mash Potatoes.— Boil the potatoes, peel them, and 
break them to paste ; then to two pounds of them add a quarter 
of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, ana stir it 
nil well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or place 
them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a sala- 
mander, or in scallops. 

Carrots require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe 
off the skin after they are boiled ; when old, boil them with the salt 
meat, and scrape them first. 

To Stew Carrots. — Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice 
them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak 
broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream ; simmer 
them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving, 
rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with 
them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added, ten mmutes 
before-served. 

To Mash Parsnips.— Boil them tender, scrape, then mash 
them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, 
and pepper and salt. 

Frioasseo of Parsnips.— Boil in milk till they are sofl, then 
cut them lengthways into bits two or three inches long, and sim- 
mer in a white sauce made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of 



194 TO B&ESS CHiSBOOirS— SSA XAEE— tAYBB. 

mftoe, h(df ft cupfiil of cream> a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, 
and fiMtlt. 

To dress Chardoon8.~Cat them into pieces of six inches 
long, and pnt on a string ; boil till tender, and have ready apiece 
of butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. 

Or, tie them up in bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, on 
toast, and pour butter over them. ^ * 

Or boil m salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and 
fry them. Serve with melted butter. 

Or stew them : boil as directed in last pa^e ; toss them up with 
a brown or white gravy, add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken 
with a bit of butter and flour. 

Beet-roots.— Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad, 
of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of 
being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling and very 
wholesome. 

It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quan- 
tity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as 
follows i — 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pan 
with a little broth, and a spoonfed of vinegar ; simmer till the 
gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, and 
make a round of the button-onions, nrst boiled till tender ; take 
ofl* the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and 
clear. 

Or, roast three large onions, and peel ofl* the outer ftkins 
till they look clear, and serve the beet- root stewed round 
them. 

If beet-root is. in the least broken before dressed, it parts with 
its colour, and looks ill. 

Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire.— Clean and 
drain a good quantity of spinach leaves, two large handfuls of 
parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and 
onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to 
stew with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, 
shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be 
closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is 
served with slices of broiled calves' liver, small rashers of bacon, 
and eggs fried : the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate 
dish. 

Sea Kale lUust be boiled very white, and served on toast like 
asparagus. 

Xiayer.-^Thi^ is a plant that grows on the rocks near the 
sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for 
eating. 

Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, 
and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten 
with roast meat, and is a great sweetener of the blood. It 
is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by 
habit. 

'Jfo Preserve several Vegetables to eat in Winter.— For 



UXTLES TO BE 0B8]e&Y£B WITH PIOK&VS. 135 

Fj^eaoh beans, pick them youns , and throw into a little wooden keg 
a layer of them three inches deep ; then sprmkle them with salt, 
put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as yon think 
proper, alternately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over 
them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, a^nd put 
aheavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. 
If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient 
to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten^ 
cut, soak, and boil them as if firesh. 

Oarrotdy Parsnips, and Beet-roots, should be kept m 
layers of dry satnd for winter use ; and neither thev nor potatoes 
should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully 
kept from frost. 

Store Onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. 

Parsley should be cut close to the stalks, and dried in a warm 
room, or on tins in a yerr cold oven ; it preserves its flavour and 
colour, and is very useful in winter. 

Artichoke Bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper- 
bass ; and Truffles, Morels, Lemon Peel, &c., in a dry place, 
ticketed. 

Small close Cabbaffes, laid on a stone floor before the frost 
sets in, will blanch ana be very fiine after many weeks* keeping. 

PICKLES.— Htiles to be observed with Pickles.— 
Keep them closely covered, and have a wooden spoon, with holes, 
tied to each jar ; all metals being improper. They should be well 
kept from the air, the large jars oe seldom opened, and small ones 
for the different pickles in use, should be kept for common supplv, 
into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely 
covered. 

Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans. 
When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot 
hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and 
vinegar penetrate the daze, which is poisonous. 

Lemon Pickle.— wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; 
put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces 
of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and 
Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of 
mustard ; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of 
an hour in a well-tinned saucepan ; or, which is better, do it in a 
stone jar, in a kettle of boiling water ; or set the jar on the hot 
hearth till done. Set the jar byj and stir it dailv for six weeks ; 
keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. 

Indian Pickle. — Lay a poimd of white ginger in water one 
night: then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other 
in^rcaients shall be ready. 

Feel, slice, and salt a pound of garb'c three daj's, then put it in 
the sun to diy. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. 

Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : 

Quarter some small white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, 
and set them in the snn to dry. 

Cauliflowers cut in the branches ; take off the green from 



136 :^NGLt$Xt ^kUnOO—U&tO^ tfANGOEd. 

radishes ; cut celery in three-incli lengths ; ditto young Fren«^ 
beans whole, likewiso the shoots of elder, which will look like 
bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sortj 
eut them in slices, or quarters if not too lar^e. All must be saltedi 
drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter, over which you 
must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no 
salt must be used. . 

Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed, and 
as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to 
pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to :be 
ready against the vegetables shall be dried. When they are 
ready, observe the following directions: — Put some of them into 
a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling 
vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables, and when drained, 
put them into a large stock jar, and ooiUng the vinegar pour it 
over some more of the vegetables ; let them lie a night, and do as 
before. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the 
.dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing ; 
then, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mus- 
tard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boihng hot. The 
whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but set 
to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. 

This pickle will not be ready for a year, but you may niake e^ 
small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower 
one scald in water after salting and drying as above, but without 
the preparative vinegar j then pour the vinegar that has the spice 
and garHc, boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the 
vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle and pour- 
ing it over them hot, wiU plump them. 

English Bamboo. — Cut the large young shoots of elder, 
which put out in the middle of May (the middle stalks are most 
tender) ; peel off the outward peel or skin, and lay them in salt 
and water, very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a> 
cloth. Have in reaciiness a pickle thus made and boiled: to a 
quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced 
ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder 
shoots in a stone jar ; stop close, and set by the fire two houi's* 
turning the jar often to keep it scalding hot. If not green wheok 
cold, strain off the liquor, and pour it boiling hot again; keep it 
hot as before. Or, if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above 
shoots arc a great improvement to it, in which case you need only 
pour boiling vinegar and mustard seed on them, and keep them 
till your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster 
of elder-flowers before it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat 
with boiled mutton. It is only done by pouriug boiling vinegar, 
over. 

Melon Mangoes. — There is a particular sort for this purpose* 
which the gardeners all know. Cut a small square piece from one 
side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mus? 
tard-sceds and shred garlic ; stuff the melon as full as the space 
will allow, and replace the square small piece. Bind it up with a- 

V pack-thread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for 



PICKLED LEUONS— FICELEI) CXJOUHBEBS. 137 

Trasting, with pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling liot orer the 
mangoes four successive days ; tlie last, put flour of mustard and 
scraped horse-radish into tlie vinegar just as it boils up. Stop 
dose. Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are 
spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done soon aftei 
they are gathered. Lai'ge cucumbers, called Green Turley, pre- 
pared as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. 
• Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured 
over either sort, the sooner it will be ready. 

Pickled Lemons.— They should bo small and with thick 
rinds ; rub them with a piece of flannel, then slit them half down 
in four quarters, but not through to the pulp : fill the slits with 
salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five 
days until the salt melts, turn them thrice a day in their own 
liquid until tender, make enough pickle to cover them of rape 
vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger ; 
boil and skim it ; when cold put it to the lemons, with two ounces 
of mustard-seed and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. When 
the lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or other 
sauces, 

Olives are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of dif- 
ferent sizes and flavour ; each sort should be firm, though some 
fire most fleshy. 

Preserve them from the air. 

Pickled Onions. — ^In the month of September, choose the 
small white round onions, take off the brown skin, have a very 
nice tin stew-pan of boiling water ready, throw in as many onions 
as will cover the top ; as soon as they look elear on the outside, 
take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a 
clean cloth ; cover them close with another, and scald more, and 
so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in ajar, or glass, 
or wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the best white wine 
vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold cover them ; 
should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite 
clear. 

To Pickle Cucumbers and Onions Sliced.— Cut them 
in slices, and sprinkle salt over them : next day drain them for 
five or six hours ; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling 
vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The slices 
should be thick. Repeat the boihng vinegar, and stop them 
up again instantly ; and so on till ^een ; the last time put* pepper 
and ginger. Keep in small stone jars. 

To Pickle young Cucumbers.-^Choose ^oung gherkins, 
spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them lie a week ; drain 
them, and putting them in ajar, pour boiling vinegar over them. 
Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves ; if 
they do not become a tolerable good green, pour the vinegar into 
another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it boils pour it 
over them again, covering with fresh loaves j and thus do till they 
are of as good a colour as you wish : but as it is now known that 
the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell- 



138 PICSIED WALNTTTS— MCKIED MTTSBfEOOMS. 

metal rcBsels, which, when vinegar is put into them, become 
highly poisonotis, few people like U> eat them. 

TO Fickle Walnuts.— -When the,v will bear a pin to go into 
them, put a brine of salt und water boiled, and strong enough to 
bear an egg, on them, being quite cold first. It must be well > 
skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days ; then change tho 
brine, let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour over 
them in the jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, with a 
good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard- 
seed, and horse-radish ; all boiled together, but cold. To every 
hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mustard-seed, and 
two or three heads ot garlic or shalot ; but the latter is least 
fifcrong. 

Thus done, they will be good for several years, if kept close 
covered. The air wiU soften them. They will not be fit to eat 
under six months. 

The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when all the walnuts are 
usedt 

Another way. — Put them into a jar, cover them with the 
best vinegar cold, let them stand four months ; then pour off tho 
pickle, and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover tne walnuts, 
adding to every three quarts of vinegar one quarter pound of best 
Durham mustard, a stick of horse-radish sliced, one half ounce of 
black pepper, one half ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one 
half ounce of allspice, and a good handful of salt ; pour the whole, 
boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close ; they will be 
fit for use in three or four months. You may add two ounced of. 
. garlic, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. 

Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, 
you may make excellent ketchup. 

An excellent Way to Fickle Mushrooms, to preserve 
the Flavour.— Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and 
salt ; and from the larger take out the red inside, for when they 
are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, 
and put them in a stew-pan, wim some mace and pepper ; as tho 
liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle 
fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar 
into the pan asr will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all 
into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are 
delicious. 

To Fickle Bed Oabbace.— Slice it into a colander, and 
sprinkle each layer with salt ; let it drain two days, then put it 
into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a 
few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the nurple rea cab- 
bage. Those who like the flavour of spice will Doii it with the 
vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thrown in after being 
salted, will look of a beautiful red. 

Mushroom Ketchup. — Take the largest broad mushroomsj.^ 
break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them 
now and then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, 
'^ there is a thick scum over j strain, and boil the liquor with 



8WJE1T DXSnsa, YSBSBBTSS, 8W£«TtfEAT8, £XC. 139 

Jamaica and black peppers, maoe; ganger, a cloye or two, and 
Bome mustard-seed. When cold, bottle it, and ti« a bladder over 
the cork ; in three months boil it again with some fresh spice, 
and it will then keep a twelvemonth. 

StuBhroom Eetohup another way .—Take a stew-pan full 
of large-flap mushrooms tnat are not worm-eaten, the skms and 
fringe of those yon have pickled, throw a handful of salt amonsr 
thezn, and set them by a slow fire ; they will produce a great deal 
of liquor, which you must strain : and put to it four ounces of 
shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, 
cloves, and a few bay leaves— boil and skim very well. When 
cold, cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh 
spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year, 
which mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second 
time. 

Walnut Ketchup of the finest Bort.—Boil or simmer a 
gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, 
and skim it well ; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and ' 
liquor, ditto of shidots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of 
pepper and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots 
sink ;, then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and share 
the spice wim each. Cfork closely, imd tie a bladder over. It will 
keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to 
express the juice at home; for it is rarely unadulterated, if 
bought. Some people make liquor of the outside shell when 
the nut is ripe ; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then 
so fine. 

Cockle Ketchup. — Open the cockles, scald them in their own 
liqupr 5 add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not 
enough ; stram through a cloth, then season with every savoury 
spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and parlic ; if 
for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon-juice and 
peel, mace, nutmeg, And white pepper. If for brown, bum a bit 
of sugar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than 
to add water ; and they are cheap. 

To Keep Gapers.—Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, 
and become cold, and tie them close, to keep out the air, which 
makes them soft. 



SWEET DISHES, FBESEBVES, SWEETMEATS, 

ETC. 

SWEET DISHES.— Buttered Bice*— Wash and pick 
some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to 
swell it, over the fire ;when tender, pour off the milk, and add a 
bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shako it, that 
it do not bum, and serve. . . 

Souffle of Bice and Apple.—Blanch Carolina ncc, stram it, 
and set it to boil in milk, with lemon peel and a bit of cinnamon. 
Let it boil till the rice is dry ; then cool it, and raise a rim three 



140 SNOW BALLS— A TANSET— PUITS D^AMOTTB. 

inches high round the dish; having egged it where it is put to 
make it stick. Then ega the rice afl over. Fill the dish half way 
up with a marmalade of apples ; have ready the whites of four 
eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; 
then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should.be 
warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. '' 

Snow Balls. — Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having 
pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in 
a cloth. Put a bit of lemon peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, 
and boil them well. 

Lent Fotatoos. — Swell three or four ounces of almonds, and 
three or four bitter, when blanched, putting some orange-flower 
water to prevent oiling ; add eight ounces of butter, lour eggs 
well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to 
your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and ffrate in three 
Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, tho 
size of a chestnut ; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, and 
boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. 

Serve sweet sauce in a boat to eat with them. 

A Tansey.— Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately ; add 
a i^int of cream, the same of spinach-juice, and a littie tansey -juict^ 
gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of 
Naples biscuits, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some 
nutmeg. Set all in a saucepan, just to thicken, over the fire; 
then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. 

Puits d' Amour. — Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with 
tin shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyra- 
midicalform, and lay them so; then bake in a moderate oven, 
that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pale. Lay .dif- 
ferent coloured sweetmeats on the edges. ' - 

A very nice Dish of Maccaroni dressed Sweet.-^Bbil 
two ounces in a i)int of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a good 
bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size 
w ithout breaking. Lay them on a custard diih, and pour a cus- 
tard over them hot. Serve cold. 

Floating Island.— Mix three half-pints of thin cream with a 
quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemOn-juice, orange-flower 
water, and sugar: put it into a dish for the middle of the table, 
and put on the cream a froth, as will be directed in page 146, 
which may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. 

Another way. — Scald a coalin before it is ripe, or any sharp 
apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with 
sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water ; mix in by degrees 
the pulp, and beat all together until you have a large quantity of 
froth ; serve it on a raspberry cream ; or you may colour the fMlit 
with beet-root, raspberry, or currant jelly, and set it on a wljite 
cream, having given it the flavour of lemon ; sugar and wine',*'fls 
above ; or, put the froth on a custard. 

Flummery. — Put tlu:co largo handfuls of very small yfhW'S 
oatmeal to steep a day and night in cold water ; then pour it off 
^lear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same«ii]hc. 



DUTCH FLUKMEBT— SOHERSETSniBE FIUMITY. 141 

Strain it throug;!! a fine hair sicya, and boil till it be as thick as 
hasty pudding ; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, 
put ii>one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower 
waier. Put it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, 
cyder milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. 

Dutch Flummery.— Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint 
aiid a half of water VGry gently half an hour; add a pint of white 
wine, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a 
fo\v lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and 
with them add as much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough ; 
and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the 
above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into 
a basin : stir it till half cold ; then let it settle, and put it into a 
melon shape. 

nice Plummery. — ^Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon 
peel, and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour 
as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a 
spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten; boil it, 
ODserving it do not bum ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking 
out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and 
serve with cream, milk, or custard round ; or put a tea-cupful of 
cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of^white wine, lialf a 
lemon squeezed, and sugar. 

Somersetshire Pirmity.— To a quart of ready-boiled wheat, 
put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and 
then lour ounces of currants picked clean and washed ; stir them 
and boil till they are done* Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a 
little nutmeg, with two or thi-ee spoonfuls of milk ; add this to 
the wheat ; stir them together while over the fire ; then sweeten, 
and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm. 

Curds and Cream.— Put three or four pints of milk into a 
pan a little warm, and then add rennet or gallino. When the 
curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen Bhax)e per- 
forated, of anjr form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains olT, 
without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours 
before wanted, it is very light ; but those who like it harder may 
have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, 
or a whip or cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, 
or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. 

Another Way.— To four quarts of new milk wamied, put 
from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, according to its sour- 
ness ; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut 
three or four times across with a saucer ; as the whey leaves it, 
put it into a shape, and fill up until it be solid enough to take the 
£;>rm. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and 
lemon. 

A Curd Star.— Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with 
two or three blades of mace ; and, when ready to boil, put to it 
ihe,3^olks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt 
9B will lie upon a small knife's point. Let it boil till the whe3r is 
clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve ; season it with 



U2 BLAKC-MANGE— GOOSEBEREY OB APPLE TBIFLE. 

sugar, or a little cinnamon , rose-water, orange-£ower water, or 
wKite wine, to your taste ; and put it into a star form, or any 
other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish. ; 
then put round it thick cream or custard. 

Blano-mange or Blamange.— Boil two ounces of isinglass 
in three half-pints of water half an hour ; strain it to a pint and a 
half of cream ; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few 
bitter almonds ; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms 
you please. If not to be very stin, a little less isinglass will do. 
Observe to let the blamange settle before you turn it into the 
forms, or the blacks wiU remain at the bottom of them, and be on 
the top of the blamange when taken out of the moulds. 

Jaune-mange. — ^Sour apint of boiling water over three ounces 
of isinglass, and when it is dissolved, add a pint of white wine, the 
juiee of three oranges, and two lemons, the peel of a lemon snred 
fine ; sweeten this to your taste, and add the yolks of eight eggs ; 
let it simmer gently, strain, and pour into moulds. Turn out 
next day. 

An exoellent Trifla. — laay macaroons and rat-afla-drops over 
the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they 
will suck up, which, when they have done, ^our on them cold ricn 
custard made with more eggs than directed m the foregoing pages, 
and some rice flour. It must stand two or three inches thick j on 
that put a layer of raspberry jam, and cover the whole with a very 
high whip, made the day heiore, of rich cream, the whites of two 
well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, weU beat up 
with a whisk kept only to whip syllabubs and creams. If made 
the day before used it has quite a different taste, and is solid and 
far better. 

Gtooseberrv or Apple Trifl.e,*-Scald such a quantitv of 
either of these fruits as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a 
thick lay^ at the bottom of your dish ; if of apices, mix the rind 
of half a lemon grated fine, and to both as much sugar as will be 
pleasant. 

Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yoUc of 
one egg; give it a scald over the Gre, and stir it all the time ; do 
not let it bodl ; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay 
it over the apples with a spoon, and then ^ut on it a whip made 
the day before, as for other Trifle. 

ChaatiHy Cake, €>r Cake Tride.— Bake a rice cake in a 
mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge 
with a diarp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put 
in a thick custard and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and 
then put on a high whip. 

Grobaelberry Fool.— Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some 
good Lisbon sugar ; set the jar on a stove or in a saucepan of 
water over the fire ; if the former, a large spoonful of water Siould 
be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to puljp, press it 
through a colander ; have ready a su£lcient quantity of new milk 
and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together ; or an eg^ instead 
of the latter, and le£k to be cold ; fthm fweeten li pretty 



APPLE FOOL— OSAlfOfi FOOL-— CBEAH8. 148 

well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees 
with it. 

Apple Fool. — Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and 
then peel sad pulp them. Prepare the milk, &e., and mix as 
before. 

Orange Pool. — ^Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three 
egffs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, 
and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and 
stir it till it becomes as thi(^ as good melted butter, but it must 
not be boiled ; then pour it into a dish for eating cold. 

A Cream. — ^Boil naif a pmt of cream and half a pint of milk, 
with two bay-leayes, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to 
paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-fiower \i ater, 
and a tea-spoonful of flour, havinff been rubbed down with a little 
cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little 
lemon-juice to the cream, iuid serve it in cups or lemonade 
glasses. 

An excellent Cream. — ^Whip up three-quarters of a pint of 
very rich cream to a strong froth, with some findy-scrap^ lemon 
peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar, 
to make it pleasant, but not too sweet ; lay it in a sieve or in a 
form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very 
light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the lenffth of a finger, 
and about two inches thick, over which sugar may oe strewed, or 
a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to fine 
the edge of the dish. 

Burnt Cream. — Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinna« 
mon and some lemon peel ; take it ofi* the fire, and pour it very 
slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten, 
and take out the spice, &c. ; pour it into the dish; when cold, 
strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a sala- 
mander. 

Another way.— Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling 
lemon peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the 
whole, and brown the top with a salamander. 

Sack Cream. — ^Boil a pint of raw cream, the jolk g£ an egg 
well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wme, sugar, and 
lemon peel ; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich 
cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long 
pieces of dry toast. 

Brandy Cream.— Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and 
pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it 
the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a Uttle cream, sweeten, and 
put to it two glasses of the best brandy; and when well mixed, 
pour to it a (^uart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not 
let it boil ; stir one way till it thickens, th^i pour it into cups, or 
low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be 
put in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the 
cream previously. 

Hatafla Cream.~Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine 
leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it^ and when Mild add th« 



144 LElklON OBEAM— AIMOND CREAM— COFFEE CREAJF. 

yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoon- 
ful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all 
the time. 

Another way. — Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia, the 
same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemona, 
a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly- 
flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This 
cream will keep eight or ten days. 

Lemon Cream.— Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it 
the yolks of two eggs weU beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and 
the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold ; 
put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl and pour the cream 
upon it, stirring it till quite cold. 

Yellow Lemon Oream without Cream.— Pare four 
lemons very thin into twelve large spoonfuls of water, and squeeze 
the juice on seven ounces of finejfy- pounded sugar: beat the yolks 
of nine eggs well ; add the peels and juice beaten together for 
some time ; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very 
nice block-tin saucepan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one 
way till pretty thick and scalding hot, out not boiling or it will 
curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should 
be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as 
the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the 
sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour- 
White Lemon Cream is made the same as the above, only- 
put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, ^a hisking it ex- 
tremely well to froth. 

Imperial Cream.— -Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind 
of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or 
bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained 
with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into 
the dish from a large teapot, holding it high and moving it about 
to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before 
it be served, and will be still better if a day. 

Almond Cream. — Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a 
few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent 
oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to a quait 
of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; beat 
it up with a whisk to a froth, which take ofl* en the shallow 
part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the 
froth. 

Snow Cream. — Put to a quart of cream the whites of three 
eggs well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon peel ; whip it to a froth, remove the peel* 
and serve in a dish. 

Coffee Cream, much admired.— Boil a calf's foot in w-ater 
till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a 
tea-cup of very strong coffee : clear it with a bit of isinglass to bo 
perfectly bright ; nour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very godd 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant ; give one boil 
">, and pour into the dish. 



CHOCOLATE OBBAU— C09LIN CBEAH—OfiAKGE CHGAH. Ii3 

. It flhould jeUy, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be 
fresh. 

Chocolate Cream. — Scrape into one quart of thick cream, 
one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of 
sugar 'j boil and mill it ; \rhen quite smootii take it off, and 
-leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk ; 
and take up the froth, on sieves, as others are done ; and serve 
the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. 

Codlin Cream. — Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat 
i;hem in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; 
and put sugar, bread crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. Stir 
it well. 

Excellent Orange Cream.— Boil the rind of a Seville 
orange very tender ; beat it fine in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful 
of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of 
loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat all together for ten 
minutes ; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pmt of boiling 
cream; beat till cold; put into custard cups set into a deep 
dish of boiling water, ana let them stand till cold again. Put 
at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved 
chips. 

Raspberry Cream.— Mash the fruit gently, and let them 
drain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce 
more juice ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it ; 
after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk it will not 
curdle ; which it would, if put to the milk before the cream ; but 
it is best made of raspberry jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh 
fruit cannot be obtained. 

Another way. — Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings in throe 
pints of cream and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until 
the former be melted, and strain it through a hair-sieve into a 
basin ; when cool put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, 
to the milk and cream : stir it till well incorporated ; sweeten 
and add a glass of brandy , whisk it about till three parts cold ; 
then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh 
juice ; in winter, syrup of raspberries. 

Spinach Cream. — Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden 
spoon or a whisk ; sweeten them a good deal ; and put to them a 
stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of 
new milk ; stir it well ; then add a quarter of a pint of spmach- 
juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it on 3 way constantly till 
it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard dish some 
Kaples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the 
mixture over them. It is to be eaten cold ; and is a disn either 
for supper, or for a second course. 

. Pistachio Cream.— Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; 
beat them fine with a little rose water, and add the paste to a pint 
of cream ; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. 
• Clouted Cream. — String four blades of mace on a thread ; 
ipt them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose water ; 
simmer a i'ew minutes ; then by degrees stir this liquor strained 

£ 



146 A OABUEL COVfiB POB SWBETUEATS. 

into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into 
a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire : stir it till hot, 
but not boiling hot ; poor it into a deep dish, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruits. 
Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream. ; 
in which case use a auart of new milk and the cream, or do it as 
the Devonshire scalded cream. 

When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of 
the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, whicb 
in the country they call the ring ; and when that is seen, remove 
the pan from the tire. 

A Froth to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle, which 
looks and eats well. — Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of 
damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of 
four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp up with them until it will 
stand as high as you choose ; and being put on the cream, ^c.^ 
with a spoon, it will take any form ; it should be rough, to imitate 
a rock. 

A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats.— Dissolve eight ounces 
of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of water, and three 
or four drops of lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper untinned 
skillet ; when it boils to he thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, 
and put that in a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the 
spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit 
out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be three parts cold ; then pour the 
water from the sugar, and having a copper form well oiled, run 
the sugar on it, in the manner ofa maze, and when cold yon may 
put it on the dish it is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it into the skillet and boil 
it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold colour. It is a most elegant cover. 

CalPs Feet Jelly. — Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of 
water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain 
it ; when cold take off the fat, and remove the jell^r from the sedi- 
ment ; then put it into a saucepan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon- 
juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour is 
rich, put it to the whites of five eggs well beaten and their shells 
broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly 
after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises 
to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly bag, first dipping 
the bag^into hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite 
dry. Bub the jelly through and through till clear ; then put it 
into glasses or forms. 

The following mode will greatly &cilitate the clearing of jelly : 
When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea- 
cupful of cold water : let it boil five minutes longer ; then take 
the saucepan off the ^e covered close, and keep it half an hour ; 
after which it will be so clear as to need only once running throagh 
the bag, and much waste will be saved. 

"^Hserve, feet for all jeUies are boiled so long by the people who 



0RAN6S JBI.LY-— HABTSROBir JELtT— APPLB JELLY. 147 

8&11 them tliat tbey are less nutritious: they Bhould be only 
sealded to take off the hair. The ]iauor will require greater care iu 
removing the fat ; but the jelly will oe far stronger, and, of course, 
allow more water. 

ilMe.— Jelly is equally good made of oow-heeli nloely oleaned t and as 
tltey bear a lees price than thoee of calves, and make a stronger JeUy, this ob* 
serration may be nseAil. 

Another way.— Boil four quarts of water with three calf's 
feet, or two cow-heels that have been only scalded, till half wasted } 
take the jelly from the fat and sediment : mix with it the juice of a 
Seville oranffe, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the 
whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint 
(^raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce 
of allspice, a bit of cinnamon and six cloves, aU bruised, after 
having previously mixed them cold. The ielly should boil fifteen 
minutes without stirring ; then clear it through a flannel bag. 
While running, take a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of 
water, in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it 
through the bag when all the rest is ran out; and this is 
to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate ; but this 
is matter of choice. The jelly has a very fine high colour and 
flavour. 

Orange Jelly«-~Grate the rind of two Seville and two China 
oranges, and two lemons ; squeeze the juioe of three of each, and 
atrain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump sugar* 
and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candieB* 
Have ready a quart of isinglass-jelly made with two ounces ; put 
to it the syipup, and boil it once u^ ; strain off the jelly, and le^ it 
stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. 

Hartshorn Jelly.— Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shav- 
ings with two quarts of water to only one ; strain it, and boil it 
with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin; 
when coldT add the juioe of both, naif a pound of sugar, and tho 
whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; let the jelly have three or 
four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jeUy bag. 

Cranberry Jelly. — Make a very strong ismglass jelly. When 
cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed, 
sweeten and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. 

The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be dear. 

Cranberry and Bioe Jelly.— Boil and press the fruit, strain 
the juice and oy degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, 
when boiled, thicken to a jell^; boil it gently, stirring it, ana 
sweeten to your taste. Put it m a basin or form, and serve to eat 
as the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. 

Apple Jelly to serve at Table.— Prepare twenty golden 
pippms ; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, 
till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a coland^, and 
to eveiry pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or 
lemon; then boil to a jelly. 

Another.— Prepare apples as before by boiling and straining; 
t^v^ ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water 

K2 



148 SIEWSB GOLDEN PIPFINS-H9TEWED PEAItS. 

to a jelly ; put thia to the apple water and apple, as strainod 
throuffh a coarse sieve ; add sugar, a little lemon juice and peel"; 
boil au together, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. 

To Som.d Codlins. — Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them 
close in a nice saucepan ; and when full, pour as much watei^ an 
will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simiBtff 
slowljr till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. PlaCQ 
them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or custard ; if the 
latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the 
apples. 

Stewed Golden Pippins.— Scoop out the core, pare them 
veiy fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. For ever pound 
of fruit make half a pound of single refined su^ar into syrup with 
a pint of water ; when skimmed, put the pippms in, and stow till 
clear ; then grate lemon over, ana serve in the syrup. Be careful 
not to let them break. 

They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or dessert. 

Black OapB.—Halve and core some fine large apples, put them 
in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a 
glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. 

Another way. — Take ofi* a slice from the stalk end of some 
apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much 
sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some 
grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the hcdes^aft 
close as possible with this, and turn the fiat end down on a stew- 
pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half a pint of raisin wine, 
and the same of water : cover them close, and now and then baste 
them with the liquor ; when done enough, black the tops with a 
salamander. 

Stewed Fears. — Pare and halve, pr quarter, large pears, ac- 
cording to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken 
ofi* before they are divided, to prevent their turning bl%ck. Pack 
them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much sugar 
over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon peel, a clore 
or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cover them with water, 
and put some of the red liquor, as directed in another article. 
Cover them close, and stew three or four hours ; when tender, take 
them out, and pour the liquor from them. 

Baked Pears. — These need not be of a fine sort ; but some 
taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat 
raw. Wipe, but do not pare, and lay them on tin plates, and 
bake them in a slow oven. When done enough to bear it, flatten 
them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a 
dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. 

Orange Butter. — Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar 
with two ounces of fine suffar, three ounces of butter, and two 
ounces of blanahed almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten with 
orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub it through a 
colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. 

Wine Bolls.— Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it'* 
Till hold no more ; put it in the dish, and pour round it a cuBtard/ 



ICE WATXB8— CT7B&AKT OR HASPBEBHY ICE. U9 

Dr cream, sujarar, and lemon juice. Just before it be served, 
eprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits ; or stick a few blanched 
split almonds into it. 

SpODflfe biscuits may be used instead of the roll. 
. To Prepare Fruit for Children, a far more wholesome 
way than in Fies and Puddings.— Put apf)les or pears, sliced, 
plums, currants, gooseberries, <&c., mto a stone jar, and sprinkle as 
much Lisbon sugar as is necessary among them ; set the jar on a 
hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the 
fruit is perfectly done. 

Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the fruit, or 
added, when eaten : the rice being plain boiled. 

To Prepare Ice for Icing.— Get a few pounds of ice, break 
it almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of salt among 
it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of 
the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The ice and 
salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover 
it ; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to 
touch every possible part.' 

In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, re- 
moving the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the 
ioe-cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move 
the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without 
danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let off 
the ice as it thaws. 

■Sote. — When any fluid tends towards cold, the mere moving it quickly ac- 
celerates the cold ; and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it 
\i-ill facilitate its boiling. 

Ice Waters.— fiub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to 
give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its 
respective peel ; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and 
strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater 
proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little of 
Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. 

Currant or Raspberry water Ice.— The juice of these, or 
any other sort of fruit, being gained b^ squeezing, sweetened and 
mixed with water, will be ready for icmff. 

Ice Creams. — Mix the juice of the iruits with as much suffar 
as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a 
middling richness. 

Bro'wn Bread Ice. — Grate as fine as possible stale brown 
bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, 
sweeten and ice it. 

Batafla Cream. — Blanch a quarter ounce of bitter almonds, 
beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar ; then 
rub with the paste two ounces of lump sugur, and simmer ten 
minutes with a tea-cupful of cream, which add to a quart more of 
pseam, and having strained, ice it. 

Colourings to stain Jellies, Ices, or Cakes.— For a beau- 
tiful red, boilfifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with 
a idram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a*pii^t of water, very 



UO LOXBON eTLIwlBUB--LBX02r HOVETCOUB. 

Blowly, lialf an hour ; add in boiling a bit of alum tiie siae of a 
pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. 

For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of 
water ; or use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of «affron« steeped in the 
liquor and squeezed. 

For ffreen, pounded spinach leaves or beet leaves, express the 
juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a saucepan of water to talie o& 
tlie rawness. 

London Syllabub.— Put a pint and a half of port or wiiite 
wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then 
milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be 
not rather sharp, it wul require more for this quantity of milk. — 
In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cin- 
namon and sugar. 

Staffordshire Syllabub. — ^Put a pint of cider, and a glass of 
brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl and milk into it ; or pour 
warm mi]k from a large teapot some height into it. 

A very filne Somersetshire Syllabub.— In a large china 
bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine ; 
sugar to taste. Milk the bowl fuU. In twenty minutes' time cover 
it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, put 
pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comnts. 

Devonshire Junket. — Put warm milkinioabowl; turn it 
with rennet ; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon 
on the top, without breaking the curd. 

Everlasting, or Solid Syllabubs.— Mix a quart of thick 
raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine 
raisin wine in a deep pan ; put to it the grated peel and the juice 
of three lemons. Beat or whisk it one way half an hour : then 
put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shal- 
low end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a 
cool place, ten days. 

Lemon Honeycomb. — Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your 
taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of 
an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sngar ; 
whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon juice. Vo it 
the day before it is to be used. 

Hioe and Sago Milks are made by washing the seeds nicely, 
and simmering with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. 
The former sort rec^uires lemon, spice, and sugar ; the latter is 
good without anything to flavour it. 

A very Pretty Supper Dish.— Boil a tea-cupful of rice, 
having first washed it, in milk, till tender : strain off the milk, 
lay the rice in Uttle heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely 
powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine and a littie 
Dutter into the dish. 

Savbrv Hice. — ^Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently 
in a small quantity of veal or rich mutton broth, with an onion, 
a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled 
to mash, dry it on tke shallow end oi a sieve before the fire, and 



OAXAOIX OV BIOX—BALlUeirNBT— MACABONI. 151 

either wssre it drjr, or put it in the middle of a dish, and iK>tir tine 
gravy round, having heated it. 

darrole of Bioe. — Take some well-picked rioe, waah it well 
and boil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- 
pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. 
Stew it over a very gentle me till tender ; have ready a mould 
lined with very thin slices of bacon ; mix the yolks of two or three 
eggs with the rice, ai^d then line the bacon with it about half an 
inch thick ; put into it aragoat of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any- 
thing else. Pill up the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake 
it in a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a 
good gravy or curnr-sauce. 

Oaaserol, or Bioe Edging, see nage 102. 

Salmagiindy is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and 
if the colours of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose 
chop separately the white parts of cold chicken or veal, yolks of 
eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half a dozen an- 
chovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham and grated tongue, 
or anything well flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people 
Hke a small proportion of onion, but it may be better left out. A 
saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small 
dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing 
smaller towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each 
row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of 
<mrled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without anything on the dish, 
the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites 
of eggs, wnich may oe made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at 
the round end. In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingre- 
dient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. 

Macaroni as nsually served.— Boil it in milk, or a weak 
veal broth, pretty well flavoured with salt. When tender, put it 
into a dish without the liquor, and among it put some bits of but- 
ter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little 
more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, 
but do not let the top become hard. 

Another way. — Wash it well, and simmer it in half milki and 
half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of 
this liquor, put the volk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream; 
just make it hot to thicken but not boil ; put it over the macaroni, 
and then grate some fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. 
Brown with the salamander. 

Another.—Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a little 
broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, 
take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a flrood deal of cheese 
oyer, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter 
without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little eartlion 
colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven, to 
roast the cheese, and brown the oread of a fine colour. The bread 
should be in separated crumbs, and look light. 

Omelet. — Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little 
flours put to it chopped parsjey, green ouionsi or chiyes (the 



152 BAHAKIirS-— POTTED CHC1SSG~W£L8H BABBIT. 

latter is best), or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, ' 
salt, and a scrape or tvro of nutmecr. Make some bntter boil m a ' 
small fryinp-pan, and pour the above batter into it ; when one 
side is of a fine yellow-brown, turn it and do the other. Double * 
it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, pUt 
in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four egjgB will make a 
pretty sized omelet ; but manv cooks will use^ eight or ten. A 
small proportion of flour should be used. 

If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine flavotir. 
A (rood deal of parsley should be used. 

Eamakins and omelet, though usually served in the course, 
would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might 
be eaten as hot as possible. 

Butter to serve as a little dish.— EoU butter in different 
forms ; either like a ]}ine and make the marks with a tea-spoon, 
or rolling it in crimping rollers, work it through a colander, or 
scoop with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue, or an- 
chovies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. 

Hamakins. — Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and 
ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter; then beat' 
all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of *^a 
small French roll boiled in cream till soft ; mix the paste with the 
whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small paper 
pans made rather long than square, and bake in a Dutch oven till ; 
of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the 
addition of a glass of white wine.— The batter for ramakinsia 
equally good over macaroni when boiled tender ; or on stewed 
brocoli, celery, or ca.uliflower, a little of the gravy they have been 
stewed in being ijut in the dish with them, but not enough to make 
the vegetable swim. 

Potted Cheese. — Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire 
cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of \^ hij» 
pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine. 
Press it down in a deep pot. 

Boast Cheese to come up after Dinner.— Grate three 
ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, 
four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter ; beat tlie 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a 
little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper 
pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them into a Dutch oven 
covered with a di&h, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the 
cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. 

Melted Cheese. — Take two ounces of good Cheshire, and two * 
ditto of Parmesan cheese, grate them, and add about double the 
weight of each in beaten yolks of eggs and melted butter, mix 
them well together, add pepper and salt to your taste, and then 
put to it the white of the eggs, which have been beaten separately ; 
stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, filled but half full, 
as it will rise very much. Serve when quite hot. ' 

Welsh Babbit. — Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and 
butter it ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay 



CnjBESE TOAST—AirCHOYr TOi.ST— BUTIEBED SOGS. 153 

that nexfc the hread, and toast the other with a salamander ; ruh 
mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. 

CheesQ Toast. — Mix some hue butter, made mustard, and 
salt, into a mass ; spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and grate 
or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. 

.Ancnovy Toast.— Bone and skin six or eight anchovies; 
pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour 
is equal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks. 

Another way. — Cut tliin slices of bread into any form, and 
fry them in clarified butter. Wasli three anchovies, split, pound 
them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a 
liair sieve, and spread it on the toast .when cold. Then quarter 
and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Gramish 
with parsley orpickles. 

To Poaoh Sfggs. — Set a stew-pan of wat6r on the fire ; when 
boiling, slip an egg, previously broken in a cup, into the water ; 
when the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slico under the 
egg, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As soon tys enough 
are done, serve hot. If not fresh laid, they will not poach well, 
and witliout breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites, and 
make them look round. 

Buttered Eggs.— Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white 
together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then 
put that in boiling water, stir it till melted ; then pour that but- 
ter and the eggs into a saucepan : keep a basin in your hand, just 
hold the saucepan in the other, over a slow part of the fire, shaking 
it one way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin and back ; 
then hold it a^ain over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce- 
pan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg 
and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. 

Serve on toasted bread : or in a basin, to eat with salt fish, or 
red herrings. 

Scotch Eggs. — Boil hard five pullets' eggs, and without re- 
moving the white, cover completely with a line relishing force- 
meat, in which let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy, bear a due 
proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow orown, and serve with a 
good gravy in the dish. 

A Pepper-pot. — To three quarts of water, put such vege- 
tables as you choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two 
or three onions; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celery. 
Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of 
mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an 
hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put 
it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet-dumplings 
boiled in the above. Season it with salt and Cayenne. 

luiitead of mutton you may put a fowl. Pepper-pot may be 
made of various things, and is understood to bo a proper mixture 
of tish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. A small quantity of 
rice should be boiled with the whole. 

The Staffordshire Dish of Frying Herbs and Liver. 
—Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vege- 



Ui TO GREEN PBUITS FOB FBSSEBTIKa OB! PICKLIKO. 

tables, pag^ 134 : on which lay slices of liver fried a beautiful 
brown, and elices of bacon just warmed at the iire, and laid on 
each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, 
and then trimmed round ; or they may be served on the herbs, 
and the liver garnished with the bacon separately. 

To Freserve Suet a Twelyemonth.— Ab soon as it coiiQes 
in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins. In 
a very nice saucepan, set it at some distance from the fire, that it 
may melt without iiyins:, or it will taste. 

When melted, pour into a pan of cold water. When in a hard 
cake, wipe it very diy, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen 
bag, and keei) it m a dry but not hot place. When used, scrape 
it fine, and it will make a fine crust, eitlier with or withoot 
butter. 

8WESTJOSATS.— To QveeaFnute for Vresorvizig or 
Bieldiii^, — ^Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches while 
gi«en for the first, or radish-pods, !French beans for the latter, and 
cucumbers for both processes ; and put them, with vine-leaves 
under and over, into a hhcJc'tin preserving-pan, with spring- 
water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set 
it on the side of a fire, and when th^y begin to simmer, take them 
off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when 
cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice ; 
they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for 
the several modes. 

To Clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats.— Break as much as 
required in lar^e lumps, and put a pound to half a pint of water 
in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when broken small. Set 
it over the fire, with the well- whipt white of an egQ ; let it boil up, 
and, when ready to run over, pour a little cold water in to give it 
a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, and 
set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during which the 
foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black scum on the 
top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and pour the sjrrup 
into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. 

To Candy any Sort of Fruit.— When finished in tlie syrup, 
put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water 
to take off the svrup that hangs about it ; put it on a napkin be- 
fore the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have 
ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all 
sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a 
slightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not 
be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. 

To prepare Barberries for Tartlets.— Pick barberries 
that have no stones, from the stalks, and to every pound wdgh 
three c[uarters of a pound of lump sugar ; put the fruit into a 
stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a saucepan of 
water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft ; put them and 
the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen 
min utes. Use no metal but silver. 

Barberries in Bunohes.— Have ready bits of ilat white 



A BEAUXZFTa FfiKaEBYX 07 APBIC0T8. 155 

wood three inches Ions and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the 
Btalks of the fruit on tne stick from within an inch of one end to 
beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer 
them in some syrup two successive days, covering them each time 
with it when cold. When they look clear, they are simmered 
enough. The third day do them like other candied fruit. See 
receipt for it p. 164 

A.Beautirul Freaerre of Apricots.— When tij>e choose 
the finest apricots ; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. 
Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. 
Have read^ an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, 
«nd strew it over them; in the meantime break the stones and 
blanch tJie kemds. WJMn the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, 
with the sugar and juice and also the kernels, into a presen^ng- 
pan. Let it simmer very gently tiu dear ; ihxn. take oat the 
pieces of apricots singly as they become so, put them into small 
pots and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must 
be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. 

To Preserve Apricots in Jelly.— Pare the fhiit very thin 
and stone it ; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder 
and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, 
move them into a bowl and pour the liquor over. The following 
day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling 
and straining, and a pound of fine sugar ; let it boil quicKly till it 
will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skun well, and 
put into small pots. 

To Preserre Green Apricots.— Lay vine or apricot leaves 
at Uie bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, 
the upper layer being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring- 
water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan 
at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may bo 
only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some ot the 
water, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit 
into the pan and the syrup to it ; put the pan at a proper distance 
from the fire till the apncots green, but on no account boil or 
crack ; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup for 
two or tliree days ; then pour off* as much of it as will be necessary, 
and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little 
sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been 
drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will 
serve to sweeten pies. 

Apricots or Peaches in Brandy.— Wipe, weish, and pick 
the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in 
fine powder. Put the fruit mto an ice-pot that shuts very close ; 
throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. 
Between the top and the cover of the pot put a piece of double- 
cap paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of water till the brandy 
be as hot as irou can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it 
must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on 
it. When cold put a bladder over, and tie it 'down tight. 

To Dry Apricots in Half .—Pare thin and halve four pounds 



156 OEiUSraE HABUALABE— LEMOK HABUALADE. 

of apricots, weighing them«afler; put tbem in a dish; strew 
among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When 
it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently ; as each piece 
becomes tender, take it out and put it into a china bowl. When 
all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup 
over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little 
in each half. After about a day or two more turn them, and so 
continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep 
in boxes with layers of paper. 

Apricot Cheese. — Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit 
and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly or 
the colour will be spoiled; blanch the kernels, and add to it. 
Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots or cups 
half filled. 

Orange Marmalade.— Easp the oranges, cut out the pulp, 
then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. 
Boil three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and 
add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but 
stir it carefully ; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds 
having been removed, and a pint of apple-liquor ; boil all gently 
until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put il 
into small pots. 

Iiemon Marmalade do in the same way ; they are very good 
and elegant sweetmeats. 

Transparent Marmalade. — Cut the palest Seville oranges 
in quarters, take the pulp out and put it in a basin, pick out the 
seeds and skins. Let the out sides soak in water with a little salt 
all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring-water till 
tender ; drain and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to 
the pulp ; and to every pound, a pound and a half of double-re- 
fined sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twenty minutes, but 
be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five 
or six minutes long:er. It must be stirred all the time very gently. 
When cold, put it into glasses. 

To Butter Oranges Hot.— Grate off a Httle of tlie outside 
rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end, 
opposite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp, seeds, and 
juice; then pick the seeds and ^kin from the pulp; rub the 
oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. 
You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh 
water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitter- 
ness. In the meantime make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and 
put the oranges into it and boil them up, turning them round that 
each part may partake of the sjrrup, as there need not be enough 
to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till they are to bo 
served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar 
to the pulp, and set over the fire ; mix it well, and let it boil ; 
then add a spoonful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, 
and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to 
tiiicken it ; fill the*oranges with it, and serve them with some of 
the syrup iu the dish. Put the bits on the top. 



TO VIIX PBESBBYBJ) OBAirOE8--OBiJrQB CHIPS. 157 

To Fill Preserved Oranges (a Corner Dish).— For five, 
take a pound of Naples biscuits, some blanched almonds, the yolks 
of four eggs well beaten, su^ar to your taste, and four ounces of 
butter warmed, grate the biscuits, and mix well with the above 
some orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a 
very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as 
sooa as filled, otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well ; 
if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become 
cold. 

Whole Oranges Carved.-— Cut on the rinds anv shapes you 
please with a penknife, cut a bit ofi'near and round the stalk, and 
with an apple-scoop take all the puTp carefullv out ; put them into 
salt and ^^ ater two days, changing it daily ; boil them an hour or 
more in fresh water and salt, drain them quite dry ; let them stand 
a night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin 
syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this 
four days successively. Let them stand six or seven weeks, ob- 
serving often whether they keep well, otherwise boil the syrup 
aga^n. Then make a rich syrup. 

Buttered Orange Juice (a Cold Dish).— -Mix the juice of 
seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rosewater, and add 
the whole to the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, well 
beaten ; then strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, 
stir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about 
the size of a small walnut of butter : keep it over the nre a few 
minutes longer, then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat 
cold. 

If you have no silver saucepan, do it in a china basin in a 
saucepan of boiling water, the top of which will just receive the 
basin. 

Orange Chips. — Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice 
through a sieve ; soak the peel in water ; next day boil it in the 
same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the 
juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad 
earthen dish, and place over the fire at a moderate distance, often 
stirring till the chips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. 
They will not be so under three weeks. 

Orange Biscuits, or Little Cakes.— Boil whole Seville 
oranges in two or three waters, till most of the bitterness is gone ; 
cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then beat the outside 
very fine in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double- 
refined sugar beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to 
a paste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun or 
before the fire ; when half dry, cut it into what form you please, 
turn the other side up, and dry that. £eep them in a box, with 
layers of paper. 

The^ are for desserts ; and are also useful as a stomachic, to 
carry m the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when shooting, 
and for goutv stomachs. 

Orange-nower Cakes.— Put four ounces of the leaves of the 
flowers into cold water for an hour ; drain, and put between nap- 



158 TO PBE8SBTB OSAITOES OB LBMONS IIT JBILT. 

kins, and roU witii a rolling-pin till they are bmised ; then have 
ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, giire 
them a simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, 
dr^ in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. 

To Preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelly.— Cut a hcAe 
in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small 
knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. 
Tie each separately in musun, and lay them in spring water two 
days, changing twice a day ; on the last boil tnem tender on a 
slow fire. Observe tiiat tiiere is enough at first to allow for wast- 
ing, as they must be coyere(y;o the last. To every pound of fruit 
weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar and one pint of water ; 
boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syru^, 
and clarify it ; skim well, and let it stand to be cold ; then boil 
fruit in the syrup half an hour ; if not clear do this daUy till they 
are so. 

Pare and core some green pippins and boil in water till it tastea 
strong of them ; do not break them, only gently press them with 
the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jeUv-bag till quite 
clear ; then to every pint put a pound of double-renned sugar, the 
peel and juioe of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off 
the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole 
upwards in a jar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out 
must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with 
brandy paper. 

To Keep Oranges or Lemons for PuddingSy &o.--* 
When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, without 
the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no 
more : boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when 
they are tolerably dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may 
have remaming m>m old sweetmeats ; or if you have none, boil a 
small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water and put 
over them : in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it tiU they 
look clear ; and that they may be covered with it m the jar, yon 
may cut each half of the firuit in two, and they will occupy but 
small space. 

To Preserve Strawberries Whole.— Take equal weights 
of the fruit and double-refined sugar ; lay the former in a large 
dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over ; give a 
gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the und» side 
of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of 
the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pound of red curraiit 
juice to every j>int of strawberries; in this simmer them until 
sufficiently jelhed. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when 
not dead ripe. In either of the above ways they eat well served in 
thin cream, in glasses. 

To Preserve Strawberries in Wine.— Put a quantity of 
the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew 
in three large spoons of fine sugar ; mL up with Madeira wine, or 
fine sherry. 

'^o Dry Cherries with Sugar.— Stone six pounds j^ 



TO SBT OHSRBISS VITHOITI SVaAB— CBBBBT J AH. 159 

Kentish; put them into a preserving-pan, with two pounds of 
lotff-sugar pounded and strewed among them ; simmer till they 
begin to shrivel ; then strain them from the juice : lay them on 
a hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool enough to dry 
without baking them. 

The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. 

To Dry Cherries without Sugar .-*Stone, and set them 
over the fire in the preserving-pan } let them simmer in their own 
liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in common 
china dishes ; next day give them another scald, and put them, 
when cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of a temperate heat as 
above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. 

Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. 

To Dry Gherriea the best way.— To every five pounds of 
cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double-refined. Put the fruit 
into the preserving-pan with very little water ; make both scald- 
ing hot ; take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them 
into the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of 
cherries ; let it stand to melt ; then set the pan on the fire, and 
make it scalding hot, as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice 
with the 8Up:ar. Drain them from the syrup, and lay them singly 
to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, iput them 
into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it mstantly 
out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set 
them once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a 
box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is 
the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and 
flavour. 

Cherries in Brandy.— Weish the finest morellas, having cut 
off half the stalk prick tnem with a new needle, and drop them 
into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight 
of sugar or white candy ; strew over ; fill up with brandy, and tie 
a bladder over. 

Cherry Jam,— To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, 
when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar ; break the stones of part, 
and blanch the kernels $ then put them to the fruit and sugar, and 
boil all gently tiU the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into 
china plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white 
paper between. 

Currant Jam, Black, Bed, or White.— Let the fruit be 
very ripe, pick it dean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every 
pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar; stir it well, 
ind boa half an hour. 

Currant Jell^r, Bed or Black.— -Strip the fruit, and strew 
them in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or boil them on the 
hot hearth ; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound 
of loaf*Bugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or 
ohina vessel, till nearly dissolved |then ^ut it in a preserving-pan ; 
simmer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put 
it in small jars or glasses. 

Apple Marmalade.—Scald apples till they will pulp from 



160 BED APPLES ICT JELLY— DBIED APPLES. 

the core ; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps ; just 
dip them in water, and boiling it up till it can be well skimnled, 
and is a thick syrup, put it to the pulp, and simmer it on a quick 
fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon peel before boiled, 
but if too much it will be bitter. 

Apple Jelly for Preserving Apricots, or for any sort 
of Sweetmeats. — Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored ; 

1)ut them into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them ; 
)oil as fast as possible ; when the fruit is all in a mash^ add a 
quart of water : boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly- 
bag. 

If in summer, codlins are best ; in September, golden rennets or 
winter pippins. 

Red Apples in Jelly. — Pare and core some well-shaped 
a{)ples, pippins or golden rennets, if you have them, but others 
will do ; throw them into water as you do them : put them in a 
preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cover 
them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, turn 
them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. 
Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the 
fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the di^h they are 
to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water, and make 
a rich jelly of it with loaf sugar, boiUng the thin rind and juice of 
a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on 
and among the apples ; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, 
and put it across the eye of the apple. 

Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the fruit will 
not afterwards gain it, and use as Uttle of the cochineal as will 
serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. 

Dried Apples. — ^Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, 
and flatten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to 
bear it. If the oven be too hot, they will waste and first it 
should be very cool. 

The biffin, the minshul crab, o any tart apple are the sorts 
for drying. 

To Preserve Jargonel Pears most beautifnlly.— Pare 
them very thin, and simmer in a tliin syrup ; let them lie a day or 
two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again, and repeat this 
till they are clear ; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool 
oven a very little time. They may be Kept in syrup, and dried tLS 
wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. 

Gooseberry Jam for Tarts.— Put twelve pounds of the red 
hairy gooseberries, when ri^e, and gathered in dry weather, into 
a preserving-pan, with a pint of currant juice, drawn as for jelly ; 
let them boil prettv quick, and beat them with the spoon ; when 
they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbon 
sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or 
wiS not keep, but is an excellentand reasonable thing for tarts or 
pufis. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syrup and fruit 
separate, the whole must be boiled longer. B-3 careful it does not 
' "^n to the bottom. . 



WHITE G008BBEBBT JAM—BISPSEBRY JAII. 161 

Another. — Gather your ffooseberries (the clear white or green 
sort) \v-hen ripe ; top and tau, and weigh them, a pound to three 
quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water ; boil 
and skim the sugar and water, then put the fruit, and boil gently 
till clear ; then break, and put into small pots. 

White Gooseberry Jam.— Gather the finest white goose- 
berries, or green if you choose, when just ripe ; top and tail them. 
To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and 
half a pint of water. Boil and clarifjr the sugar in the water, as 
directed in page 154, then add the fruit ; simmer gently till clear, 
then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into small pots. 

Gk>08eberry Hops. — Of the largest ^een walnut kind, take 
and out the bud end m four quarters, leavmg the stalk end whole ; 
pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five 
or six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, till 
they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine leaves at the bottom of a 
tin preserving pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of 
leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan 
with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out ; set 
it by a slow fire till scalding hot; then take it off till cold, and so 
do till on opening while cold the gooseberries are of a good green. 
Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of 
sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well ; when half cold, 
put in the fruit ; next day tnye it one boil, and do this tlurice. If 
the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, 
they may be set to dry in a week ; but if to be kept wet, make a 
syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling ; 
when skimmed and clear, ffive the gooseberries one boil, and when 
cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a 
little suffar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that 
are for drying have their last boil. 

The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other sweet- 
meats. 

Baspberry Jam. — Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; 
put the former into a preserving pan, boil and break it ; stir con- 
stantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is 
wasted, add the sugar, and simmer naif an hour. 

This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to 
that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. 

Another way. — JPut the fruit into a jar in a kettle of water, 
or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then take away 
a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit ; boil and bruise it 
half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar j and 
adding the same quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. 

The raspberry-^uice will serve to put into brandy, or may be 
boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly for raspberry- 
ii^e or cream. 

To Preserve Greengages.— Choose the largest, when they 
begin to soften ; split them without paring, and strew a part of 
thesuffar, of which you have previously weighed an equal quantity. 
iBlaucn the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pour the 

L 



162 DAlCflON CHEESE— 'inrSCIS-PLITH CEEE8S. 

syrup irom the fniit, and boil it with the other sugar, six or e^t 
minutes, but very gently ; skim, and add the ^lunis and kernels. 
Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises : put the fruit 
singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If 
you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but obserre the direc- 
tions that will be given for candying fruit ; some may be done 
each way. 

Damson Cheese.— Bake or boil the fruit in a stone-jar in a 
saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juiee, 
and for every two pounds of fruit wei^h half a pound of sugar. 
Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it be^ns 
to look dr^ ; take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well 
in, and simmer two hours slowly ; then boil it quickly half an 
hour, till the sides of the pan candy : then pour the jam into pot- 
ting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut &m. 
If tne skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out ; but 
after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very 
coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The irtones 
are to be cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the 
jam. All the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate, but do 
not add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in 
shapes. 

Huscle-ploin Cheese.— Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake 
it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and taike out the kernels to put 
in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lis- 
bon : when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add 
the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much eva- 
porated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it bum. Pour it 
mto small moulds, patty-pans, or saucers. The remaining juiDe 
may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. 

Biseiiits of Fruit. — To the pulp of anv scalded fruits, put of 
sifted sugar an equal weight ; beat it two hours, then put it into 
littie white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn, the next day, 
and in two or three days box them. 

Qiiince Marmalade. — Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an 
equal quantity of sugar ; to four pounds of the latter, put a quart 
of water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of 
^[uinces are tolerably tender by the following mode : lay tiiem 
into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack 
them with a little sugar stirewed between : cover the jar close, and 
set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the c^our 
becomes red ; then pour the fruit syrup and a quart of quince- 
juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade 
be completed, breakmg the lumps of fruit with the preserving 
ladle. 

This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as mentioned, it re- 
quires a great deal of time. 

Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a 
cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to aod as 
above, but dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. 

To Preserve Whole or Half Quinces.— Into two quarts 



£XCEL£Kir9 0WB«¥USAT8 90S 9A&T8— I.E1I09 DROPS. 16S 

of boiling water put a quantity of tilie fairest golden pippins, in 
slices not very thin, and not pared, but wiped clean. Boil them 
rery quick, close covered, till the water becomes a thick jelly ; 
then scald the quinces. To every pint of pippin-jelly put a 
pound of the finest suffar ; boil it, and skim it clear. Put those 
guinces that are to be done whole into the svrup at once, and let 
it boil very fast ; and those that are to be in halves by themselves ; 
skim it, and when the fruit are clear, put some of tlie syrup into 
a glass to try whether it jellies before taking off the fire. The 
quantity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a 
pound of jelly already boiled with the sugar. 

Exoellent Sweetmeats for Tarts, when Fruit is plen- 
tiftil. — Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe, and take 
out and break the stones ; put the kernels without their skin to 
the fruit ; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two 
pounds and a half of lump sugar ; simmer until the fruit be a 
clear iam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just 
dipped in water, and added to the fruit over a slow fire. Observe 
that it does not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be darified, it 
will make the jam bitter. 

Put it into small pots, which keep sweetmeats best. 

Magnum Bonum Plums : excellent as a Sweetmeat, 
or in Tarts, though very bad to eat raw.—Prick them with 
a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin 
«yrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cola pour it over. 
Let them lie three days ; then make a syrup of three pounds of 
sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large 
lumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. 
Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from 
them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup 
adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour 
the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the 
syrup for, longer in the i)an, and boil it quickly ; then give the 
fruit one warm more ; drain, and put them to dry on plates in a 
cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two 
sjrrnps ; the former will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid 
to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar to do 
those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet aa if 
kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. 
Do not ^reak them. One parcel may be done after another, and 
save much sugar. 

Lemon Drops.-^-Grate three fine large lemons, with a large 
piece of double-refined sugar ; tiien scrape the sugar into a plate, 
add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light 
paste with the white of an egg» Drop it upon white paper, and 
put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. 

Barberr:^ Drops.— The black tops must be cut off: then 
roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver 
«poon through a sieve into a china basin ; then set the basin in a 
saucepan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot 
hear<£, and stir it till it grows thick. "When cold, put to every 

L 2 



164 TO FCE8EBTE FB17ITS FOB WINTER TJ8E. 

pint a pound and a half of sng:ar, the finest double-refined, pounded 
and sifted through a lawn sieve, which must be coverea with a 
fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the suffar 
and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, but 
two and a half for less ; then drop it on sheets of thick white 
paper, the size of the drops sold in the shops. 

Dome fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is necessary. To 
know if there be enough, mix till well incorporated, and then drop ; 
if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it 
will be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal 
must touch the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop 
off the er d of a wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. 

Ginger Drops : a good Stomachio.— Beat two ounces of 
fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste ; 
then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of 
loaf-sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogether 
to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint drops. 

Peppermint Drops. — Pound and sift four ounces of double- 
refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectly 
smooth ; then add sixty drops of oil of jpeppermint, beat it weli, 
and drop on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire. 

ItataJQ.a Drops.— -i^lanch and beat in a mortar four ounces c^ 
bitter, and two of sweet almonds, with a Httle of a pound of sugar 
sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the whites of two 
eggs, making a paste ; of which put little balls, the size of a nut- 
meg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently on tin-plates. 

Raspberry Cfakes. — Pick out any bad raspberries that are 
among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you please, and 
when mashed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight 
of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix it wellq^the fire until 
perfectly dissolved, then put it on china-plates, and dry it in the 
sun. As soon as the top part dries, cut, with the cover of a 
camster, into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and, when 
dry, put them in boxes with layers of paper. • 

TO PBESEBVE PflTTITS FOB WINTER USB.— 
Observations on Sweetmeats.— Sweetmeats should be kept 
carefully from the air, and in a very dry place. Unless they have 
a very small proportion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt ; but 
when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quick, 
heat makes them ferment ; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. 
They should be looked at two or three times in the first two 
months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to 
keep. 

It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar, more or 
less, constitutes the principal art of the confectioner, and those 
who are not practised in this knowledge, and only preserve in a 
plain way for family use, are not aware that, in two or three 
minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass from one gradation to 
another, called ny the confectioners degrees of boiling, of which 
there arc six, and those subdivided. But I am not versed in the 
minutiae, and only make the observation to guard against under- 



TO KEEP CUREANT8— TO KEEP CODLINS. 165 

boiling, which preyents sweetmeats from keeping; and quick 
boiling and long, which brings them to a candv. 

Attention, without much practice, will enable a person to do 
any of the following sort of sweetmeats, &c., and they are as much 
as is wanted in a private family ; the higher articles of preserved 
fruits may be bought at less expense than made. 

Jellies of fruit made with an equal quantity of sugar, that is, a 
pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. 

A pan should be Kept for the purpose of preserving, of double 
block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, 
will do very well ; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, 
when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or 
brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scrapmg of 
the sweetmeat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong 
tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should 
be kept for sweet things. 

Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not connected with a 
wall. If there be -the least damp, cover them only with paper 
dipped in brandy, laid quite close ; putting a little fresh over in 
spring, to prevent insect mould. When any sweetmeats are 
durected to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in 
private families, where there is not a regular stove for the pur- 

gose, to put them iu the sun^on flag-stones, which reflect the 
eat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if 
put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch 
fiiat they do properly and slowl.v. 

To Keep Currants. — The bottles being perfectly clean and 
dry, let the currants be cut from the lar^e stalks with the smallest 
bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture 
may be amon^ them. It is necessary to gather them when the 
weather is quite dry, and if the servant can be trusted, it is best 
to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the 
bottles. 

Stop up the bottles with cork and resin, and put them into the 
trench in the garden with the neck downwards ; stocks should be 
placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. 

Cherries and Damsons keep in the same wav. 

Currants may be scalded, as du^ected for gooseoerries, the first 
method. 

To Keep Ccdlins for seyeral months.— Gather codlins at 
Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, 
pour boiling water over them, and cover the pan with cabbage- 
leaves. Keep them by the fire till they would peel, but do not 
peel them ; then pour the water off till they are both quite cold. 
Plnee the codlins then in a stone jar with a smallish mouth, and 

Eour on them the water that scalded them. Cover the pot with 
ladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper 
tied again. 

It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once 
when opened. 
To Keep Gooseberries.— Before they become too large, le*"- 



166 TO KEEP 6006EBEBBIES— 1:0 KEEP BAMB0N8. 

them be gathered ;^ and take care not to cut them in taking off tke^ 
stalks and buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles ; put the corks loosely 
in, and set the bottles up to the neck in a bouer of water. When 
the fruit looks scalded, take them out ; and when perfectly cold, 
cork close and resin the top. Die a trench in a part of the garden 
less used, sufficiently deep for alTthe bottles to stand, and let the 
earth be thrown over to cover them a foot and a half. When a 
frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the 
ground from hardening so that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, 
scald as above ; when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork 
them, and keep them in a damp or dry place -, they will not be 
spoiled. 

Another way. — In the size and preparations as above : whmi 
done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler or large kettle ; 
and put into it as much roach-^um as will, when dissolved, harden 
the water, which you will taste by a little roughness ; if there be 
too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a 
large sieve as wiU lie at the bottom without covering one another. 
Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to look scalded on 
the outside ; then turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth on 
the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more to 
be scalded, and so on till all be finished. Observe not to put one 
quantity on another, or they will become too soft. The next day 
pick out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the 
bottles with alum water in which they were scalded ; which must 
be kept in the bottles, for if lefl in the kettle, or in a glazed pan, 
it will spoil. Stop them close. 

The water must boil all the time the process is carrying on. 
Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as those gathered 
fresh off ihe bushes. 

Another way. — ^In dry weather pick the gooseberries that are 
fall grown, but not ripe ; top and tail, and put them into open- 
mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with new velvet corks ; put 
them in the oven when the bread is drawn, and let them stand till 
shrunk a quarter part ; take them out of the oven, and immediately 
beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and resin down close ; set 
them in a dry place, and if well secured from the air, they will 
keep the year round. 

If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries* skins are the least 
cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy 
sort only must be used for keeping, and do them before the seeds 
become large. 

Currants and damsons may be done the same way. 

To Keep Damsons for Winter Pies.— Put them in small 
stone jars, or wide-mouthed bottles ; set them up to their necks 
in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire undei', scald them. 
Next day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spriDg water ; cover 
them. 

Another way. — ^Boil one-third as much sugar as fruit with it, 
over a slow ^e, till the juice adheres to the fruit, and forms a jam. 



TO FBBSXBTS VRXTOB FOB TABT8 OB VAXILY BESSSBTS. 1.07 

Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If too sweet, mix with it some 
of tlie fruit that is done without sugar. 

Another way. — Choose stean pots, if you can get them, which 
are of equal size top and bottom (they should hold eight or nine 
pounds); put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a 
quarter of the sugar ; then another quantity of fruit, and so till 
all of both are in. The proportion of sugar is to be three pouuds 
to nine pounds of fruit, bet the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit 
guite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick 
into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand abofe the 
top : then put melted mutton suet over the top full half an inch 
thick, havmg previously covex'ed the fruit with white paper. 
Keep the jars m a cool dry place, and use the suet as a cover, 
whicli you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a little 
forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. 

To Preserve Fruit for Tarts, or Family Desserts.— 
Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when 
ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew 
over each jar six ounces of good loaf-sugar pounded : cover with 
two bladaers each, separately tied down ; then set the jars in a 
large stew-pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three 
hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from 
damp, 

To Keep Lemon Juice.—- Buy the fruit when cheap, keep 
it in a cool place two or three days, if too unripe to squeeze at 
once ; cut the peel ofif some, and roll them under your hand to 
make them part with the juice more readily ; others you may 
leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and 
dried. Squeeze the juice into a cnina basin ; then strain it 
through some muslin, which will not permit the least pulp to 
pass. Have ready half and quarter-ounce phials perfectly dry ; 
nil them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half 
a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each ; or a little more, if for 
larger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool 
place. * 

When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as you 
shall use in two or three days ; wind some clean cotton round a 
skewer, and dippinff it in, the oil will be attracted ; and when all 
shall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. 

Hang the peels up till dry ; then keep them from the dust. 

China Orange Juice. (A very useful thing to mix with 
Water in Fevers, when the fresh Juice cannot be procured). — 
Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through 
fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quarters of a pound of 
double-refined sugar for twenty minutes ; when cold put it in small 
bottles. 

DifTerent ways of Dressing Cranberries.— For pics and 
puddings, with a good deal of sugar. 

Stew in a jar with the same : which way they eat well with 
bread, and are very wholesome. 



168 ORGEAT— LEMOXADE—KASPBEBUY VINEGAH. 

Tiina done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine drin|c 
for people in fevers. 

Orgeat. — Boil a quart of new milk witli a stick of cinnanipn, 
sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; tlien pour it by de- 
grees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter that have 
been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a little water to pre- 
vent oilin(y ; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a 
glass of brandy. 

Another way.— Blanch and pound three quarters of a pouijd 
of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonfol of water. Stir in 
by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the 
whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a 
pint of water, boil and skim it well ; mix it with the other, as like- 
wise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a tea-cupful of the 
best brandy. 

IJemonade, to be made the day before wanted.— Pare 
two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight 
of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling, water, and cover 
it over for three or four hours. Rub some flr^e sugar on the 
lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china bowl, into 
which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and 
a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three 
quarts of milk made boiling hot ; mix, and pour through a jelly- 
bag till perfectly clear. 

Another way. — ^Pare a number of lemons according to the 
quantity you are likely to want ; on the peels pour hot water, but 
more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels of. 
While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the 
white of an egg whipt up ; when it boils, pour a little cold water 
into it ; set it on again, and when it boils up, take the pan off, and 
put it to settle. If there is any scum, take it off, and pour it clear 
from the sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the 
lemon-juice ; stir and taste it, and add as much more water as 
shall be necessary to make a ver.7 rich lemonade. Wet a jelly- 
bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the hquor, which is uncom- 
monly fine. 

Iiemonade that has the Flavour and Appearance of 
Jelly. — Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as pos- 
sible, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water. Boil a 
pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in three pints of water, and 
skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges 
and twelve lemons ; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly- 
bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the 
flavour, and if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. 

Raspberry Vinegar.— Put a pound of fine fruit into a china 
bowl, and pour upon it a quart of the best white-wine vinegar;, 
next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries, and the 
following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain 
the hquor as dry as you can from it. The last time pass it through 
a canvas previously wet with vinegar to prevent waste. Put it 
'-^rs a stone jar, with a pound of loaf sugar to every pint of juice 



OBSEBTATIOXS ON UAKINO AND SAKINO CAXKS. 169 

broken into large lumps ; stir it when melted, then put the jar 
into a saucepan of water, or on a liot hearth, let it simmer, and 
skim it. when cold, bottle it. 

This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in 
a house, not only as affording the most refreshing beverage, but 
being of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. A large 
snoonful or two in a tumbler of water. Be careful to use no 
glazed nor metal vessel for it. 

The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes excellent 
Baspberry Cakes, without boiling. 



CAKESy BREAD, &c. 

Observations an Making and Baking Cakes, 

Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and 
then set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or pud- 
dines heavy. Before they are added, a dust of dry flour should 
he thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes 
the thing that they are put to to be lighter. 

Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and 
always strained. 

Sugar. should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted 
through a very fine hair or lawn sieve. 

Lemon peel* should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar 
beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little 
wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingre- 
dients. 

After all the articles are put into the pan, thev should be tho- 
• roughly and lon^ beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends 
much on their being well incorporated. 

Whether black or white plum-cake^, they require less butter 
and eg^s for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the 
leaven oe only of flour, milk, water, and yeast, it becomes more 
tough and is less easily divided than if the butter be first put with 
those ingredients, and the dough aflerwards set to rise by the 
fire. 

The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially 
those that are lar^e. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. 
Should you fear its catching, by being too quick, put some paper 
over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough 
lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will 
be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife 
that is very bright, and plunge into the very centre ; draw it in- 
stantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
diately in, and shut up the oven. 

If the heat was sufficient to raise but not to soak, I have with 
great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot 
until the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out 
extremely well. But those who are employed ought to be parti- 



170 icsrsa roK caxes^av bxcsllbhx caks. 

cularly oareful that no mistake occur from negligence when laige 
cakes are to be baked. 

loein^ for Cakes.— For a large one, beat and sift eight 
ounces ot fine sugar; put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of 
rose-water and the whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, whisk 
it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the ice- 
ing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden* but do 
not let it stay to discolour. Put the cake into a dr^ place. 

To Ice a very large Cake. —Beat the whites of twenty 
fresh eff gs ; then, by de^ees, beat a pound of double-refined sugar 
sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan, 
add orange-flower water and a piece of fresh lemon peel of the 
former, enough to flavour, and no more. Whisk it for three hours, 
till the mixture is thick and white ; tiien with a thin broad bit of 
board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, 
and an hour will harden it. 

A Common Cake.— Mix three quarters of a pound of flour 
with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half 
an ounce oi caraways, and aglass of raisin wine. Beat it well, 
and bake in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon sugar. 

A very good Common Cake.— Eub eight ounces of butter 
into two pounds of dried flour ; mix it with three spoonfuls of 
yeast that is not bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half^ 
then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one 
pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness (about a 
pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of a lemon, 
and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound of currants, or 
some carawa3's, and beat well. 

An excellent Cake. — Bub two pounds of dr^ fine flour with 
one of butter, washed in plain rose-water, and mix it with three 
spoonfuls of yeast in a Uttle warm milk and water. Set it to rise , 
an hour and a half before the Are, then beat into it two pounds of 
currants, one pound of suear sifted, four ounces of almonds, six 
ounces of stoned raisins chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon^ 
allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as 
possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve ycnxs and whites 
of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. 
Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. 

A very fine Cake. — ^Wash two pounds and a half of fresh 
butter in water fii'st, and then in rose-water ; beat the butter to a 
cream; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an 
hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest flour, 
well dried and kept hot, likewise a pound and a half of sugar 
pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three 
pounds of currants nicely cleaned and dried, half a pound of 
almonds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats 
cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire ; mix all the dry 
ingredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter ; mix half a pint 
of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter 
nd eggs, mix well, then nave all the dry thinffs put in by degrees, 
e^t them very thoroughly, you can hajrdiy do it too mucl^ 



B0T7T SBOP OAXGS— 6H0BT Ci.XVB— PLT7M CAKES. 171 

Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as pos- 
sible, mix them carefully so that there shall be no lumps, and add 
a tea-ounful of orange-flower water. Beat the ingredients toge- 
ther a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you 
have none, a tin or oopc^er cake-pan ; take a white pai»er doubled 
and buttered, and put in the pan, round the edge, if the cake 
batter fill it more than three parts, for space should be allowed 
for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. 

Bout Drop Gakea.— Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto 
butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then 
wet into a stiff paste with two eggs, and a large siK>onful of 
orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto 
brandy ; drop on a tin plate floured : a very short time bakes them. 

Flat Gakesy that will keep long in the house good.— 
Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of 
caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, 
to make a stifl* paste ; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. 
Bake on ims lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of 
sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip 
each cake mto it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a 
a short time, and when the oven is cooler still, return them there 
again, and let them stay four or flve hours. 

Iiittle White Cakes.— Dry half a pound of flour ; rub into it 
a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few 
caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; roll 
it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake 
fifteen minutes on tin plates. 

Little Short Cakes.— Bub into a pound of dried flour four 
onncos of butter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, 
and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When 
mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways mto the rest. 
Cut them as before, and bake on tins. 

Plum Cakes.— Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine 
flour, well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf sugar, three 
pounds of currants washed, and very dry, half a pound of raisins 
stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and doves, 
twenty. Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon 
cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and 
beaten with orange-flower water. Melt two pounds of butter 
in a pint and quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a 
pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandjr, the whites and yolks of 
twelve effffs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. Strain 
this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them to- 
gether a full hour, then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As 
you put the batter in the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, 
lemon, and orange-candy. 

If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double-refined sugar 
sifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and 
by degrees pour in the remainder. It must be whisked near an 
hour, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, but mind 
Dot to put much, When the cake is dcme, pour the ioeing over, aud 



172 POtTND C5AKE — SEED C.i.KE— BEEAD CAKE. 

return it to the oven for fifteen minutes ; but if the oven be very 
warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the colour 
be spoiled. 

Ajiother.— Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, font 
pounds; sugar pounded and sifted, one pound and a half r six 
orange, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices : mix these. 

Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately ; then melt a pound 
and a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when lukewarm, put it to 
half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a pint of sweet wine, and the 
eggs ; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them 
well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an 
ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three 
hours will bake it. 

Very good common Flam Cakes.— Mix five ounces of 
butter in tliree pounds of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon 
sugar ; then add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, and 
some pimento finely powdered. Put three spoonfuls of yeast into 
a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light 
dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a 
floured tio half an hour. 

Little Plum Cakes, to keep long.— Dry one pound of 
flour, and mix six ounces of finely-pounded sugar ; beat six ounces 
of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, half s 
pound of currants, washed and nicely dried, and the flour and 
sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin-plates, and 
drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, 
it will be a stifl* paste. Bake in a brisk oven. 

A good Pound Cake. — ^Beat a pound of butter to a cream, 
and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. 
Have ready warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of 
sifted sugar, mix them and a few cloves, a little nutmeg and cinna- 
mon in fine powder together ; then by dcCTces work up all the drj 
ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a 
glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. 
Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. 

The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, 
and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most 
tastes a more pleasant one. 

A cheap Seed Cake. — Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with 
half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little 
ginger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a pint 
of milk ; when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and 
work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few 
minutes before it goes to the oven; add seeds, or currants, and 
bake an hour and a naif. 

Another.— Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound of 
common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, an ounce of 
seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of milk and water. 
Note. — Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. 

Common Bread Cake.— Take the quantity of a quartern 
loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well 



QUEEN CAKES^SHBEWSBimr CAEE8. 173 

into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of 
currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. 

By- tiie addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or 
two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream 
improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a 
loaf, the outside being less hard. 

Queen Cakes.— Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted 
sugar, aud of currants washed clean. Wash a pound of butter in 
X'ose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight e^gs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, and put in all the dry mgredients by 
degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter little tins, teacups, or 
saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine 
Eu^ar over just as you put into the oven. 

Another way. — Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with 
t\A o well-beaten eggs, strained ; mix eight ounces of dried flour, 
and the same of lump sugar, and the crated rind of a lemon, then 
add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver- 
spoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes 
in a guick oven. 

Shrewsbury CaJces. — Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded 
cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the 
finest sort ; add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and 
mix these with the flour, &c., then pour into it as much melted 
butter as will make it a good thickness to roll out. 

Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes as you 
iik«. 
. Tunbridge Gakes.~Eub six ounces of butter quite fine, 
into a pound of flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and 
strain two eggs, and make with the above into a paste. Boll it 
very thin, and cut it with the top of a glass ; prick them with a 
fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, 
and dust a little white sugar over. 

Bice Cake. — Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of 
ilour, eight ounces of pounded sugar ; then sift by degrees into 
eight yolks and she whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred 
so fine that it is quite mashed ; mix the whole well in a tin stew- 
pan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately 
mto the oven in the same and bake forty minutes. 

Another. — Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the 
peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, 
eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar pounded and sifted ; 
then beat it well with the eggs, by degrees, for an hour, with a 
wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put in at the oven's 
mouth. 

A gentle Oven will bake it in an hour and a half. 

Water Cakes. — ^Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub 
into it one pound of sij^ar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce 
of carawa^r seeds. Make it into a paste iitdth three quarters of a 
pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut IntK) the size you 
choose ; pimch full of holes, and bake on tin-plates in a cool oven. 

Sponge Cake.— Weigh ten eggs, and add their weight in very 



174 TEA. OAKBS^BEKTOV OAKfiS— 31 ACABOOKS^WAFEBS. 

fine B8gar, «ad tiiat of six in flonr ; beat the yolks with the flowr 
and the whites alone, to a very stin froth ; then by degrees mix 
the whites and the floor with the other ingredients, and Beat them 
well half an hoar. Bake in a quick oven an hour. 

▲uother, without Butter.— Dry one pound of flour, and 
one and a quarter of sugar : then beat seven eggs, yolks and wltites 
apart ; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonM of brandy, beat the 
whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered 
pan in a quick oven. 

Sweetmeats may be added if approved. 

Tea Cakes.— Kub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces 
of flour ; mix eight ounces of currants and six of fine Lisbon siigar, 
two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoonful of brandy. Itoli 
the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine 
glass. You may beat the other white and wash over them, and 
either dust sugar or not, as vou like. 

Benton Tea Cakes. — Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of 
butter and milk ; rcdl as thin as possiUe, and bake on a back-stone 
over the &re, or on a hot hearth. 

Another sort, as Bisouits.— Bub into a pound of flour six 
ounces of butter, and add three large spoonfuls of yeast andxaake 
into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk ; make into 
biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. 

Another sort. — Melt six or seven ounees of butter with a suf- 
ficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds of flour into a 
stifl* paste ; roll thin, and make into biscuits. 

A Bisouit CcJce.-^One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten 
and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower 
water ; beat the whoLe thoroughly and bake one hour. 

Haoaroons. — ^Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with 
four spoonfuls of oranije-flower water ; whisk the whites of four 
eggs to a froth, then mix it and a pound of sugar sifted, with the 
aSnonds, to a paste ; and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, 
put it on in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. 

Wafers. — Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a 
little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it ; then make 
it into a thick batter with cream ; butter the wafer irons, let them 
be hot : put a tea-spoonful of the batter into them, so bake them 
careAilly, and roll them off the iron with a stick. 

Crack Kuts. — Mix eight ounces of flour and eight ounces of 
sugar ; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfids <n raisin wine ; 
then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; add 
caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, 
wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. 

Cracknels. — Mix with a quart of flour naif a nufmeg grated, 
the yolks of four e^gs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-water, 
into a stiff paste, witn cold water ; then roil in a pound of butter, 
and make tnem into cracknel shapes ; put tibiem into a kettle of 
boiling water and boil them till they swim, l^en take out and put 
4&em mto cold water ; when hardened, lay them out to di^, and 
bake them on tin plates. 



StTKS^OIKOfiRBBtAD. 175 

A good Plain Bun, that mav be eaten with or with- 
out ToastiUA: and Butter.— Eub four ounces of butter into 
two pounds ofnour, four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you 
like, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessert spoonful or caraways ; put 
a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good 
milk as will make the above into a li^ut paste. Set it to rise 
by afire till the oven be ready. They will quickly bake on tins. 

Bioher Buns. — Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with 
half a pound of sugar ; melt a pound and two ounces of butter in 
a little warm water ; add six spoonfuls of rose-water, and knead 
the above into a light dough, with half a pint of yeast ; then mix 
five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and put some on them. 

Gingerbread. — ^Mix with two pounds of flour, half a poimd of 
treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of 
ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. 

KoU the paste into what form vou please, and bake on tins, afber 
having worked it very much and kept it to rise. 

If you like sweetmeats add orange candied ; it may be added in 
small bits. 

Another sort.— To three quarters of a pound of treacle beat 
one egg strained ; mix four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce 
of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice and nutmeg a quarter 
of an ounce, beaten as fine as possible ; coriander and caraway 
seeds each a quarter of an ounce ; melt one pound of butter and 
mix with the above, and add as much flour as will knead into a 
prettv stifi" paste: tnen roll it out and cut into cakes. 

Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake 
them. 

Of some, drops may be made. 

A Good BliBdn Sort.— Max three pounds of flour with half a 
pc^nnd of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of 
pounded ginger ; then make into a paste with one pound and a 
quarter oftreacle, warm. 

A Good Sort without Butter.— Mix two pounds of trea- 
cle, of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four 
ounces, all tninlv sliced ; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce 
of caraways, and one ounce of beaten gini^er, in as much flour as 
vnH. make a softpaste ; lay it in cakes on tm plates, and bake it in 
a quick oven. Seep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will 

be good for some months. 

JNoU. — If cakes or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, the taste will be 
disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist. 
— Or, if to be crisp, laying tbem before the fire will make them bo. 

Rusks. — ^Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new 
milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter ; add to it 
a quarter of a pint of yeast and three ounces of sugar, and put 
them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste 
rather like batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour^ 
then add some more flour to make it a little stifler, but not stin. 
Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about five 
or six inches wide, and fiatten them. When baked and cold, slice 



176 TO UAEE YEA61>-Z0 HAKE BBEAD. 

them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oren to brown a 

little. 

Xofe. — The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea ; or, w!th 
camways, to eat cold. 

To make Teast. — Thicken two quarts of water with fine 
flour, about three spoonfuls ; boil half an hour, sweeten with neair 
half a pound of brown sugar ; when near cold, put into it four 
spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it 
stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. 
There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; 
shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. Take always four 
spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it 
always in succession. 

A naif-peck loaf will require about a gill. 

Another way.— Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash ; when 
half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready 
for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. 

Use double the quantity of this, to what you do of beer 
yeast. 

To take off* the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour 
it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. 

To make Bread. — Let flour be kept four or five weeks before 
it is begun to bake with. Put half a Dushel of good fiour inta a 
trough, or kneading-tub ; mix with it between four and ^ye quarts 
of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast ; put it intd 
the flour, and stir it well with your hands till it becomes tough. 
Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less, if it I'ises 
fast ; then, before it falls, add four more quarts of warm water, 
and half a pound of salt ; work it well, and cover it with a cloth; 
Put the fire into the oven, and by the time it is warm enough, the 
dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each ; 
sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread; 
shut it up close and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer 
the water should be milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in 
frosty weather as hot as you can bear your hand in, but not scald- 
ing, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will 
be very nice. 

The oven should be round, not long ; the roof from twenty to 
twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron, to 
shut close. This construction will save firing and time, and bake 
better than long and high-roofed ovens. 

Eolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new, 
when two or three days old, by dipping them, uncut, in water, and 
baking afresh, or toastiug. 

American Flour requires almost twice as much water to mako 
it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it is more 
profitable ; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteen 
pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread ; but 
the best sort of English fiour produces only eighteen pounds aod 
a half. 



THE BF.T. MR. HAGOKT S £GONOMICiX BRKAD. 177 

The Beverend Mr. Hagget's Eoonomioal Bread.— 
Only tlie coarse flako bran is to be removed from the flour : of 
this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than four gallons 
of water, so that when perfectly smooth, you may have three gal- 
lons and three quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead 
fifty-six pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same 
way and proportion as for other bread. When ready to bake, 
divide it mto loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. 

Thus made, flour will imbibe throe quarts more of bran-water 
than of i)lain, so that it not only produces a more nutritious and 
substantial food, but makes an increase of one-flfth the usua. 
quantity of bread, which is a saving of one day's consumption out 
of six ; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would 
effect a saving often millions sterling;: a year, when wheat was at 
the price it stood in the scarcity, reckoning the consumption to 
be two hundred thousand bushels a day. The same quantity of 
flour, which, kneaded with ^^ater, produces sixty-nine pounds 
eight ounces of bread, will, in the above way, make eighty-three 
pounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary 
price of flour four millions would be saved. When ten days old, 
if put into the oven for twenty minutes, this bread will appear 
qmtenew again. 

Bioe and Wheat Bread.— Simmer a pound of rice in two 
quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft ; and when it is of a 
proper warmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, 
and yeast and salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four larce 
spoonfuls ; knead it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the 
fire. Some of tlie flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. 
The whole expense, including baking, will not exceed three 
shillings* for which eight pounds and a half of exceeding 
good bread will be produced. If the rice should require 
more water it must be added, as some rice swells more than 
other. 

French Bread. — With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix 
the yolks of three, and whites of two eegs, beaten and strained, 
a litile salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as 
much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light 
dough. Stir it about, but do not knead it. Have ready three 
quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them. Set to rise, 
then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Basp 
when done. 

To Discover whether Bread has been Adulterated 
with Whiting or Chalk. — Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong 
yincgar, and if this puts it into a state of fermentation, you may 
be certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles, and these are 
sometimes in large quantities in bakers' bread. 

To Detect Bones, Jalap, Ashes, &c., in Bread.— Slice 
a large loaf very thin, the crumb only ; set it over the fire with 
water, and let it boil gently a long time ; take it ofl*, and pour the 
water into a vessel j let it stand till nearly cold, then pour it gently 



178 BOLLS— SIUlfJ^INS—YOUXSUIEE CAKES. 

out, and in tlie B^diment will be seen the ingredients whicU have 
been mixed. The alum \\ill be dissolved in the \Tater, and 
may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used, it will 
form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingredients will sink 
to the bottom. 

Excellent Bolls. — ^Warm one oimce of butter in half a pint 
of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and 
a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the 
above. Let it rise an nour, knead it well, make into seven rolls, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they 
resemble Sally Luuns, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, 
with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of 
milk, makes them remarkably good. 

French Rolls.— Hub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; 
mix one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much 
milk as wiU make the dough of a middling stiflhess. Beat it well, 
but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. 

Brentford Bolls. — Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, 
two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two e^^s 
beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. 
Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire 
to rise, till they become of a proper size ; then bake half an 
hour. 

Potato Bolls.— Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and 
work them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as will 
make them pass through a colander. Take half or three quarters 
of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water to mix with the 
potatoes ; then pour the whole upon five pounds of flour, and add 
some salt. Knead it well: if not of a j^roper consistence, put a 
little more milk and water warm ; let it stand before the fire an 
hour to rise ; work it well, and make it into rolls. Bake about 
half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat 
well toasted and buttered. 

Muffins. — Mix two pounds of flour with two e^gs, two ounces 
of butter melted in a nint of milk, and four or ^e spoonfuls of 
yeast ; beat it thoroug:hiy, and set it to rise two or three hours. 
Bake on a hot hearth in flat cakes. When done on one side turn 
them. 

Kote. — Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new, by dip- 
ping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch oven, till the 
outsidebe crisp. 

Yorkshire Cakes.— Take two pounds of flour, and mix with 
it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, ihvee 
spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ;, beat all well together and lot it 
rise; then knead it, and make into cakes ; let tnem rise on tins 
before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is maJe 
as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort ; the 
last lighter. ^ 

Hard Biseuits.— Warm two ounces of butter in as much 



TO BBEW VBBY PINB WBL6H ALE-HBTBOKG B£KU OR ALE. 176 

skimmed milk aa will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, 
beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Eoll it thin, 
and cut it into roimd biscuits ; prick them full of holes witli a 
fork. About six minutes will bake them. 

Plain and very Crisp Bisouits.— Make a pound of flour, tlio 
yolk of an egc, and some milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it wol!, 
and knead till quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuit:*. 
Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 



HOME BBEWEBY, WINES, &o. 

To Brew very fine Welsh Ale.— Pour forty-two gallons 
of water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, 
cover and let it stand three hours. In the meantime infus? 
four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water 
and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and 
boil them together throe hours. Strain off the hops, and keep 
for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool 
enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if 
you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and 
often. "When the wort has done working the second or thira day. 
the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle, remove it then, 
and tun the ale as it works out ; pour a quart in at a time, and 
gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too Ionic, 
which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole 
two or three days before stopping up. 

Stronff Beer or Ale.— Twelve bushels of malt to the hogs- 
head for beer (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body), eight 
for ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not 
boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered ; 
mash it in the first half hoiur, and let it stand the remainder of the 
time. Kun it on the hops previously infused in water ; for strong 
beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel ; if for ale, half a 
pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it 
oegins to boil. Cool a pailful — add t'.vo quarts of yeast to, which 
wiS prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but 
if possible put together the same niffht. Tun as usual. Cover 
the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working ; and 
when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hoi)3 
dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it 
up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve in bottles, 
before it be drunk. It will keep and be very fine eight or ten 
years.' It should be brewed in the beginning of March. 

Great care must be taken that tiie bottles are perfectly prepared, 
and^that the corks are of the best sort. 

The ale will be ready in three or four months ; and if the vent* 

!g never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very 

st. Allow t^ o gallons of water at first for waste. 

After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogshead 
and half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight 

M 2 



pe 
las 



ISO TO KEPINE ALE, WINE, OB CTDEB. 

were brewed ; mash, and let stand, and then boil, &c. Use some 
of the hops for this table-beer that were boiled for the strong. 

When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a toa- 
spoonful, or more if required, of salt of wormwood put into the 
juff, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk, or it 
will taste flat. 

Excellent Table Beer.— On three bushels of malt pour of 
hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be 
thirty-nine gallons. Cover it wann half an hour, then mash, and 
let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. 
When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand 
half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the 
water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full 
hour. Run that off, and mix all together, A pound and a half of 
hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be 
put into the tub for the first running. 

Boll the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. 
Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to 
add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart 
of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should 
be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. 
When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bungholc 
for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In three or 
four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. 

Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as 
soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the 
air causing casks to become musty. 

To Beflne Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cyder. — Put two ounces of 
isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want 
to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off 
n third part of the cask, and mix the above with it : likewise a 
quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar cal- 
cined, f^d one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then 
return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop 
it up, and in a few days it will be fine. 

Extract of Malt for Coughs.—Over half a bushel of pale 
ground malt, -govLT as much hot, not boihng water, as will just cover 
it. In forty-eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without 
squeezing the grains ; put the former into a large sweetmeat*pan, 
or saucepan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, 
without boiling over : when it begins to thicken, stir constantly. 
It must be as tnick as treacle. A dessert-spoonful thrice a day. 

To Preserve Yeast. — ^When you have plenty of yeast, .begin 
to save it in the following manner : — ^Whisk it until it becomes 
thin, then take a new large Mooden dish, wash it very nicely, and 
when quite drv, lay a layer of yeast over the inside with a soil 
brush ; let it drv, then put anotner layer in the same manner and 
so do until you have a sufficient quantity, observing that each coat 
dry thoroughly before another be added. It may be put on two 
or three inches thick, and will keep several months ; when to be 
used» out a piece out and stir it in warm water. If to be used for 



BASPBEHRY OR CUHBANT WINE. 181 

brewing, keep it by dipping large handfuls of bircli tied together ; 
and when dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as 
many as you please ; but take care that no dust comes to them or 
the vessel in which it has been prepared as before. When the 
'wort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will 
do as well as fresh yeast ; but if mixed with a small quantity fii'st, 
and then added to the whole, it will work sooner. 

Bemarks on English Wines.— English wines would bo 
found particularly useful, now foreign are so high priced ; and 
though sugar is dear, they may be made at a Quarter of the ex- 
pense. If carefuUv made, and kept three or four years, a pro- 
portionable strength being given, tney would answer the purpose 
of foreign wines for health, and cause a very considerable reduc- 
tion in the expenditure. 

A Bich and Pleasant Wine.— Take new cider from the 
press, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil 
gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. 
Skim it well ; when cool let it be tunned, but do not quite fill. 
In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six 
weeks ; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You 
will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will 
serve for any culinary purposes which sack, or sweet wine, is di- 
rected for. 

Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new 
crabbed austere cyder. 

Baspberry Wine. — To every quart of well-picked raspberries 
put a quart of water ; bniise, and let them stand two days ; strain 
off the h'quor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump 
sugar ; when dissolved, put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, 
which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle 
init a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. 

Baspberry or Currant Wine.— To every three pints of fruit, 
carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; 
bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and 
put to every quart a pound of Lisbon sugar, of good middling 
quality. If for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is best to put 
the fruit, &c., in a large pan, and when in three or four days the 
scum rises, take that off* before the liquor be put into the barrel : 
those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency 
to fill the barrel at once ; the wine will not hurt if made in the 
pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and 
can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put 
in each time. 

Another way. — Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of 
raspberries, to every two gallons of water ; let them soak a night ; 
then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a 
fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins 
again with some of the water; then, to everv gallon, put four 
pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often 
adulterated; tun it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. 
Do not use anything to work it. In two or three days put a 



182 IJLACK CTJEKANT WINE— GINGER WINE. 

bottle of brandy to every four ffallons ; bung it close, but leave 
the peg out at top a few days : keep it three years, and it will be 
a very fine agreeable wine ; four years would make it still betten * 

Black CiiiTant Wine, very fine.— To every three quarts of 
juice, nut the same of water unboiled ; and to every three quarts 
of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it 
into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in a 
Wann dry room, and the liquor i;<-ill ferment of itself. Skim oflf 
the refuse when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with 
the reser\''ed liquor. When it has ceased working, pour three 
quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine 
months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly- 
bag until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve 
months. 

Excellent Ginger Wine.— Put into a very nice boiler ten 
gallons of water, fifteen pounds of lump sugar, with the whites of 
six or eight eggs well beaten and strained ; mix all well while 
cold ; ^A-hrn the li<^uor boils skim it well ; put in half a pound of 
common white ganger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have 
ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the liquor on 
tliem J when cool, tun it with two spoonfuls of yeast ; put a quart 
of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass shavings while warm, 
whisk it well three or four times, and pour all tocether into the 
barrel. Next day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle, and in ihree 
months it will be a delicious and refreshing liquor ; and though 
very cool, perfectly safe. 

Another. — Boil nine quarts of water with six pounds of lump- 
sugar, the rinds of two or three lemons very thmly pared, with 
two ounces of bruised white ginger, half an hour ; skim. Put 
three quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask ; when the 
liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the juice of two lemons strained, 
and a spoonful and a half of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in half 
a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of isinglass shavings ; stop it 
up, and bottle it six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon- peel 
in the barrel. 

Orange Wine. — To six gallons of spring water, put fifteen 
pounds of loaf-sugar, and the whites of four eggs well beaten ; 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises take it 
off; when cold, add the juice of fi.fty Seville oranges and five 
lemons ; pare twelve oranges and five lemons as thin as possible, 
put them on thread, and suspend them in the barrel for one 
month, then take them out, and put in two pounds of loaf-sugar 
and bung it up. 

Excellent Cowslip Wine.— To every gallon of water weigh 
three pounds of lump sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking 
off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of 
toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in the 
tub thirty-six hours : then into the cask put, for every gallon, the 
juice of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Sevule orange, 
and one gallon of cowslip pips, then pour on them the liquor. It 
""•^flt be carefdlly stirred every day for a week ; then to every 



KtDVB WISE— CLAHY WJNB— BAIBIN "WINE. 183 

five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let tho cask be closely 
stopped, ana stand only six weeks before you bottle off. Observe 
to use the best corks. 

Elder "Wine.— To every quart of berries put two quarts of 
water, boil half an hour, run the liquor, ana break the fruit 
through a hair sieve ; then to every quart of juice, put three quar- 
ters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. 
Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, 
ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper 
warmth, into the barrel, with toast and yeast to work, which there 
is more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. When 
it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eifldit gallons, and slop 
up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in 
a warm place to make it work. 

White Elder Wine, very much like Frontinac.— Boil 
eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, 
and two whites of e^gs well beaten ; tlien skim it, and put in a 
quarter of a peck of elder-flowers from the tree that bears white 
berries ; do not keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, 
and put in six spoonfuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and 
beat well into the liquor ; stir it every day ; put six pounds of the 
best raisins, stoned, mto the cask, and tun the wine. StQp it close, 
and bottle in six months. When well kept this wine will pa«s for 
Frontinac. 

Clary Wine. — Boil fifteen gallons of water with forty-five 
pounds of sugar, skim it ; when cold put a little to a quarter of a 
pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour 
pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liouor on claiy- 
ilowers, picked in the dry : the quantity for the above is twelve 
quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not havo 
sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, 
keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the 
flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Back it off, empty 
the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, 
stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. 

Excellent Baisin Wine.—To every gallon of spring water 
put eight pounds of fresh Smymas in a large tub ; stir it tho- 
roughly every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse- 
hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask, and, when 
it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy ; stop it 
close for twelve months, then rack it ofi^, but without the dregs ; 
filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds ; add the 
clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy, ac- 
cording to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and, at the end of 
three years, you may either bottle it, or drink it fresh from the 
cask. Baisin wine would be extremely good, if made rich of the 
fruit and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. 

Baisin Wine with Cyder.— Put two hundredweight of 
Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of 

Sood sound cyder that is not rough : stir it well two or three 
ays; stop it, and let it stand six months ; tSien sack it into a cask 



184 SACK MEAD— COWSLIP MEAD— IMPEEIAt— BAT AFIA. 

tliat it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin ' 
wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always 
for it, and bottle off one year's wine just in time to make the next, 
which, aliowiog the six months of infusion, would make the wine 
to be eighteen months old. In cyder counties this way is ye^y 
economical ; and even if not thought stroug enough, the addition 
of another quarter of a hundred of raisins would be suflScient, and 
the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed 
through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit b^v 
distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if 
for that purpose, they must be very little pressed), or they will 
make excellent vinegar, on which article see page 98. The stalks 
should be picked out for the above, and majr be thrown into any 
cask of vinegar that is making, being very acid. 

Haisin Wine without Cyder.— On four hundredweight of 
Malagas pour one hogshead of spring-water, stir well dailjr for 
fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a 
press, and tun the liquor ; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In 
six nionths rack it oil' into another cask, or into a tub, and after 
clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but do not wash 
it ; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months 
bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which 
refer to the preceding receipt. 

Sack Mead. — To every gallon of water put four pounds of 
honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim 
it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops, then boU it half an 
hour and let it stand till next day j, put it into your cask, and to 
thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be 
lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very 
close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. 

Cowslip Mead. — Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gal- 
lons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take it off 
the fii'e, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quartered ; 
pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them; put the re- 
mainder of the liquor into a tub with seven pecks of cowslip-pips ; 
let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the 
lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast and a handful of sweet- 
brier ; stir all well together and let it work three or four days. 
Strain it, and put into the cask : let it stand six months, and then 
bottle it for. keeping. 

IinperiaL— Put two ounces of cream of tartar and the juice 
and paring of two lemons into a stone-jar, pour on them seven 
quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold sweeten 
with loaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This is 
a very pleasant liquor and very wholesome ; but from the latter 
consideration was at one time drank in such quantities as to be- 
come injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole 
quantity. 

Brataflia. — ^Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, 
bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. 
Dissolve luuf a pound of white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water. 



and add to tlie brandy after it has stood a month on the kemelsi 
and tbey are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for 
use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are out 
in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia 
in puddings. 

Ilaspbdrr^ Brandy.— Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone 
jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till 
the juice will run ; strain, and to eveiy pint add half a pound of 
sugar, give one boil, and skim it ; when cold put equal quantities 
of juice and brandy, sholte well and bottle. Some people prefer 
it stronger of the brandy. 

An excellent Method of making Punch.— Take two 
large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large 
lumps of double-refined sugar. Eub tlie sugar over the lemons 
till it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put 
into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the 
lomons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be 
mentioned, as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, 
and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze 
tlie lemon juice upon the sugar, and with a bruiser press the sugar 
and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the 
richness and finQ flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing 
and mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix this 
up very well with boiling water (soft water is best) till the whole 
is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sher- 
bet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, 
and put them to it, mixing t];e whole well together again. The 
quantity of liquor must be according to your .taste : two good 
lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, includ- 
ing a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar ; but this de- 
pends much on taste and on the strength of the spirit. 

As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet may 
bo strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon 
before they put it to the sugar, which is improper j as, when the 
pulp and sugar are Well i^ixed together, it adds much to the rich- 
ness of the uunch. 

When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften 
the punch ; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the 
porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. 

This receipt has never been in print bepre, but is greatly ad- 
mired among the writer's friends. It is impossible to take too 
much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do 
them extremely well, that all the difierent articles may be most 
thoroughly incorporated together. 

Vendor, or Milk Punch. — Pare six orangea^and six lemons 
as thin as you can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. 
Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, stopped close, 
twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, 
and add to it four quarts of water and one of new milk boiling 
hot ; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag 
till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately. 



183 KOKFOLK l»tTNCir— DAiay AHD l^OtllTRY YAED. 

Norfolk Punch.— In twenty quarts of French brandy put 
the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin tliat 
not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Haro 
ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled, put to it fifteen 
pounds of double-refined sugar, and when well mixed pour it tipoii 
the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of 
twentjr-four lemons ; mix well, then strain through a very fitte 
hair-sieve into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put 
two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand 
six weeks in a warm cellar ; bottle the liquor for use, observing 
great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the 
corks of the best quality and well put m. This Kquor will keep 
many years and improves by age. 

Another way. — Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges 
very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-pot, put to it two 
quarts of brandy, one of white-wine, and one of milk, and one 
pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed and then covered 
for twenty-four hours, strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then 
bottle it. 

White Cturant Shrub. — Strip the fruit, and prepare in a 
jar as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one 
^llon of rum and two pounds of lump -sugar ; strain through a 
jelly -bag. 



DAIRY, AND POULTBY YARD. 

DAIRY. — The servant* of each country are generallv ac^ 
quainted with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese 
of that country ; but the following hints may not be imacccptable, 
to give information to the mistress. 

On the Management of Cows, &c.— Cows should be 
carefully treated; if their teats are sore, they should be soaked 
in warm water twice a day, and either be dressed with soft oint- 
ment, or done with spirits and water. Jf the former, great clean- 
liness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should Ibe given to 
the pigs. 

When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained 
and emptied into clean pans immediately in winter, but not tiU 
cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, 
and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. 

The greatest possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness 
in a dairy ; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should 
be kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown 
over every part very often. There should be shutters to keep out 
sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil nulk. 

The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the 
udders emptied, or the quantity will decrease. The quantity of 
milk depends on many causes ; as the goodness, breed, and health 
of the cow, the pasture, the length of time from calving, the having 
plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change ot 



oUskhvations bespkctinq ciieksp. 18? 

pfisttire will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to 
the dainr will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeVs 
before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In 
gentlemen's dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty 
of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. 

For making cheese the cows should calve from Ladj^-Day to 
May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the 
same time ; but in gentlemen's families one or two should calve in 
August or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, 
the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a day each 
cow from Lady-Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christ- 
mas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to fourteen 
or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. 

When a calf is to bo reared, it should be taken from the cow 
in a week at farthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, 
because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it 
from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the 
next morning : and then, being hungry, it will drink without dif- 
ficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, 
flhould be given twice a day in such quantity as mav be required. 
If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At 
first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night, and 
morning. 

When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, 
a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to provide for a good 
winter store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get 
some one to write down for her the x>roduce of every week, and 
set down what butter she pots. Tlio Weight the pot will hold 
should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another 
part of the book should be stated the poultry reared, in one leaf, 
and the weekly consumption in another part. 

Observations respecting Cheese.— This well-known ar- 
ticle differs according to the pasture in which the cows feed. 
Various modes of preparing may effect a great deal ; and it will 
be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands or the 
contrary ; but much w^ill still depend on the former circumstance. 
The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and remarkably 
fine cheese ; but yet due care may give one pretty good, when the 
other excels in quality. 

When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of 
method may amend the inferior. There is usually, however, too 
much prejudice in the minds of dairy people, to make them give 
up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the 
eye of the superior. A gentleman has been at the expense of 
procuring cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it 
IS affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wilt- 
shire, Chedder, and many other sorts, are so excellent as not to 
^seredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it 
should seem that the mode of makins must be a principal cause 
of the difference in flavour : besides, there is much in the size and 
manner of keepmg. 



188 TO PBEPABE BENNET— TO MAKE CnEE»E. 

Cheese made on tlie same ground, of new skimmed, or mixed 
milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, but also in taste. 
Those who direct a dairy in a gentleman's family should consider 
in which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even 
with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable 
pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- 
tioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having 
a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addi- 
tion of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause 
the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from 
that usually produced by it. 

A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely 
hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advant^eous 
for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family use will be 
very well produced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; 
or on good land, by skim milk only. Butter likewise should be 
made, and potted down for winter use, but not to interfere with the 
cheese as above, which will not take much time. 

To Prepare Rennet, to Turn the Milk.— Take out the 
stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and well scour it inside and 
out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. 
Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handfuU 
of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in 
the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by 
fresh water. 

Another way. — Clean the maw as above ; next day take two 
quarts of fresh spring water, and put into it a handful of haw- 
tnorn tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a 
stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a spri^ of 
knotted marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them poU 
gently to three pints of water ; strain it off; and when only milk- 
warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into 
it ; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It 
will keep good at the least twelve months, and has a very fine 
flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. 
It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. 
Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on 
sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Do not keep 
it in a hot place when dry. 

To Make Cheese. — ^Put the mUk into a large tub, warming 
a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; -if too hot, 
the cheese will be tough. Put in as ihuch rennet as will turn it, 
and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; thferi 
strike the curd down several times with the skimming dish, and 
let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking 
the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, 
according as either is observed ; one is, to gather it with the hands 
very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass 
through the fingers till it is cleared, and ladinjr it off as it collects. 
The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; 



TO PRKSTSBVE CnSESE 60VKD--I0 HAKU OEEIU CHEESK. 189 

the losfc method deprives it of many of its oily partioles, and is 
therefore leas proper. 

Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by 
the skimmer ; press the curd close witli your hands, and add 
more as it sinKs ; and it must be finally left two inches 
above the edge. Before the vat is fillea, the cheese-cloth 
must bo laid at the bottom ; and wJieu full, drawn smooth over 
on all sides. 

There are two modes of salting cheese ; one by mixing it in the 
curd while in the tub, after the wlicy is out ; and the other by 
putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with 
it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first 
method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and there- 
fore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under 
and over the vat, and place it in the press ; in two hours turn it 
out and put a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again for eight or nine 
liours I then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it 
8(and in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the 
cheeses last made undermost. Before putting them the last time 
into the vat pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat 
should have noles at the sides and at bottom, to let all the whoy 
pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald 
them. 

To Preserve Cheese Sound.— Wash in warm whey, when 
you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. 
If you want to ripen it quick, a damp cellar will bring it forward. 
When a whole cheese is fresh cut, the larger i|uantity should be 
spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped to preserve it. 
To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean doth bo wrung out 
from cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. 
Dry cheese majr bo used to advantage to grate for serving with 
macaroni or eating without. Those observations are made with 
a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most fami- 
lies where much is used there is waste. 

To Make Sage Cheese.— Bruise the tops of young red sage 
in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; 
mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less accordinjj as you 
like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it fijently, 
and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two mches 
above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn 
every day. 

Cream Cheese. — Put five quarts of strippings, that is. the 
last of the milk, into a pan with two spoonfuls of rennet. When 
the curd is come, strike it down two or three times with the skim- 
ming dish just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a 
cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; 
break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with 
a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, tako it 
out and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from ono 
board to another j cover them with nettles, or clean dock-leaves, 



190 OBSKBYATIOXS BESPECTINO BUXTKB. 

and place between two pewter plates to ripen. If the weather be 
warm, it will be ready m three weeks. 

Another. — Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five 
quai'ts of new milk into a pan, and five pints of cold water, and 
nve of hot ; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as wiJl 
bring it in twenty minutes, likewise a bit of sugar. When come, 
strike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the 
curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it ; 
put a two-pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and 
the vat is full. 

Another Sort.— ;Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream 
as shall season it ; stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which 
you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at 
the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter 
plate. 

Rush Cream Cheese.— To a quart of fresh cream put a pint 
of new milk, warm enough to make the cream a proper warmtn,a 
bit of sugar, and a little rennet. 

Set near the firo till the curd comes ; fill a vat made in the form 
of a brick, of wheat straw or rushes sewed together. Have 
ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and 
another to cover it ; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next 
day take it out, and change it as above, to ripen. A half pound 
weight will be sufficient to put on it. 

Another way. — Take a pint of very thick som* cream irom 
the top of the |)an for gathering butter, lay a napkin on two plates, 
and pour half into each; let them stand twelve hours, then put 
them on a fresh wet napkin in one plate, and cover with the 
same ; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese be^ 
gins to look dry, then ripen it with nut leaves ; it will be ready 
in ten days. 

Fresh nettles, or two pewter plates will ripen cream cheese very- 
well. 

Observations respecting Butter.— There is no one article 
of family consumption more in use, of great variety in goodness, 
or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, thau 
this, and the economising of which is more necessary. The sweet* 
ness of butter is not afiected by tlie cream being turned, of which 
it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the t-aste 
is very disagreeable ; and the following ways have been tried with 
advantage to obviate it : — 

When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every six ^U 
Ions one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre 
in a pint of spring water, and put a quarter of a pint to every 
fideen gallons of milk. Or, when you chum, keep back a quarti^r 
of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into 
whicn you are to gather the next cream ; stir that well, and do so 
with every fresh addition. 

To Slake Butter. — During summer, skim the milk when the 
sun has not heated the dairy ; at that season it should stand for 
butter twenty-four hovata without skimming, and forty-eight ia 



TO PEBSEBYS BVTTEE IN WIITTEE. 191 

winter. Depoait the oream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy 
is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, change it into fresn 
Bcalded pots ; but never omit turniuff twice a week. If possible, 
put the churn in a thorough air ; and if not a barrel one, sot it in 
a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the 
butter. When the butter is come, pour off the buttermilk, and 
put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs, which have after- 
wards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to 
acquire some hardness before you work it : then change the water, 
and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of 
the buttermilk remain, and that the water, which must be often 
clianged, shall be quite dear in colour. Then work some salt into 
it, weigh, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water in 
an earthen pan and cover of the queen's ware* You will then 
have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires 
more working in hot than in cold weather ; but neither should be 
left with the least particle of buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is some- 
times done. 

To Preserve Butter.— Take two parts of the best common 
salt, one part good loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them 
well together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed 
from the milk, put one ounce of this composition ; work it well, 
and pot down, when it has become firm and cold. 

The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should 
not be used under a month. This article should be kept from the 
air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will l^old from 
ten to fourteen pounds each. 

To Preserve Butter for Winter, the best Way.— When 
the butter has been prepared as above directed, take two parts of 
the^best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of 
saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composition 
put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together 
m a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool ; 
for fi'iction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. 
The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put 
some salt : and when that is turned to brine, if not enough to 
cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It re- 
quires only then to be covered from the dust. 

To Manage Cream for Whey Butter.— Set the whey one 
day and night, skim it, and so till you liave enough ; then boil it 
and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, 
skim it till no more comes ; then chum it. Where new milk 
cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and present use 
mey be made to advantage. 

To Scald Cream, as in the West of England.— In wintc r 
let the milk stand twenty-four hours. In the summer twelve at 
least ; then put the milk-pan on a hot hearth, if you have one ; if 
not, set it in a clean brass kettle of water, large enough to receive 
the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no 
account boil, or there will be a skin instead of cream upon the 
milk. You will know when done enough, by th« undulations om 



192 HA.NAQEHENT OF FOWLS. 

the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the patt the 
Bize of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends oa 
the size of the pan and the heat of the fire ; the slower the better* 
Remove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. 
In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than 
two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream 
tlius prepared, and if properly done it is very firm. 

Buttermilk. — If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most 
wholesome food. Tliose who can relish sour buttermilk, find it 
still more light ; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive 
cases. ButtermQk, if not very sour, is also a« good as cream to 
eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar and mixed with a 
very little milk. It likewise does eoually for cakes and rice*pud- 
dings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream is 
too stale for anything but to feed pigs. 

To E!eep Milk and Cream. — In hot weather, when it is difii- 
cult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoilinc: the cream, it 
may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very genlb% 
without boiling, and settinj? it by in the earthen dish or pan that 
it is done in. This methoa is pursued in Devonshire, for butter 
and eating, and would equally answer in small quantities for 
coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty* 
four hours if Kcalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as miieh 
powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good 
two days, keeping it in a cool place. 

'Syrup of Cream may be preserved as above in the proportion 
of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresli 
cream ; keep it in a cool place two or three hom*s ; then put it in 
one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good 
thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful on long 
voyages. 

Gallino Curds and Whey, as in Italy.— Take a number 
of the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls ; 
clean them from the pebbles they contain ; rub them well with 
salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and deli- 
cate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break off some 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water : in eight or nine 
hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. 

To Choose Butter at Market.— Put a knife into the butter 
if salt, and smell it when drawn out ; if there is anything rancid 
or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at difierent times, the 
layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at 
the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between' 
the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of 
an equal c(^our a-1 through : if sour in smell, it has not been sulfi; 
cient\v washed ; if vemy and open, it is probably mixed with staler 
or an inferior sort. 

POULTRY- YAHD.- Management of Fowls.— In ot<- 
der to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, 
and have proper care taken of them. Ihe Dartford sort is thought 
highly of, and it is desirable to have a fine large kind, but people 



XAKAeBimTT OV FOWLS. 198 

4if«r in their opinion of which is best. The black are veryjuic:^* 
btti do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their 
odour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same 
hoar and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, 
and then cut, and either wet wilh skimmed milk or not, form one 
of the best foods. Turkeys and fowls thrive amazingly on them. 
The milk must not be sour. 

The best age for setting a hen is from two to five years ; and 
you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep 
those to laying who are j^iddy and careless of their young. In 
justice to the animal creation, nowever, it must be observed, there 
are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is 
necessary. 

Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided 
for their laying, as these will be proper for sitting likewise. If 
the hen-house is not secured from vermin, the eggs will bp sucked, 
and the fowls destroyed. 

.Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers 
on their heads ; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable. 
Some fine young fowls should be reared every year, to keep up a 
stock of good breeders ; and by this attention and removing bad 
layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good 
stock. 

Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should 
be done &om the end of February to the beginning of May. 
While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. 

Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, but 
th9Be that come out very late require much care till they have 
gained some strength. 

If the eggs of any other sort are put under the hen with some 
of her own, observe to add her own as many dajrs after the others 
as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey 
and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her 
upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If the eggs 
are large, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither 
will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. 

A hen-house should be large and high, andshoiudbe frequently 
cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But 
hens must not be disturbed wlule sitting, for, if frightened, they 
sometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be 
planted plentifully about their houses: boil some of the former, 
and sprinkle it about the floor, which should be of smooth earth, 
not paved. The windows of tiie house should be open to the 
rising sun, and a hole must be left at the door to let the smaller 
fowls go in ; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. 
There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the 
fowls are gone to roost, which would prevent the smaller beasts of 
prey from committing ravages ; and a good strong door and lock 
may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of 
human enemies, 
..Wheiv some of the chickens aro hatched long before theotbessr 



194 TO HA.KE HEKS Li.T^TO FATTBK VOWU OB CHICKENS. 

it amy be neoeasary to keep them in a basket of wool till the 
others oome forth. The day after tbey are hatched nre them 
some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cradled) grits 
soaked in milk. As soon as they hare gained a little strength, 
feed them with oord, cheese-panngs, eat small, or any 8<Mfb ^od, 
but nothing sour, and ^ve them clean water twice a amy. Keep 
the hen under a pen till the young hare strengtli to follow her 
about, which wiLl be in two or tiuee weeks $ and be sure to feed 
her well. 

The food of fowls ffoes first into their crop, whidi softens it, 
and then passes into tne (nzsard, whloh by constant fricti(m mace- 
rates it ; and this u facihtated by small stones, whidii are gene- 
rally found there, and which help to digest the food. 

Ix a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed 
with a decoction of white lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned 
by their drinking dirty water, or taking filthy food. A white thin 
scale on the tongue is the symptom. Full the scale off with your 
nail, and rub the tongue with some salt ; and the compLsint will 
be remoTcd. 

It answers well to pay some boy employed in^ae fann or stable, 
so mueh a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his int^^sk 
tben to saye them from being purlcHned, which nobody but one in 
his situation can preyent ; ana sixpence or eightpence a score will 
be buying eggs cheap. 

To Make BJena Iiay.— Dissolyeanounoeof Gkuber's salts 
in a quart of water ; mix the meal of potatoes with a litHe of the 
liquor, and feed the hens tW^o days, ^ying them plenty of dean 
water to drink. The abore quantity is sumcient for six or eight 
hens. They should haye plenty of clean watw in reach. £a a 
idw days they will produce e^. 

To Fatten Fowls or Chiekens in Fonr or Five Days.— 
Set riee oyer the Bie with skimmed milk, only as much as will 
senre one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out ; you 
may add a tea-spoonful cnr two of sugar, but it will do well with- 
out. Feed them three times a di^, in common pans, giying them 
only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put freeh, 
let the pans be set in watear, that no sourness may be conyeyed to 
the fowls, as that pzeyents them from fattening. Giye iliem dean 
water, or the milk of the rice, to drink ; but the less wet the latter 
is when perfisctly soaked the better. By this meUiod the fiesli 
will haye a clear whiteness which no oUior food giyes ; and when 
it is considered how far a pound of riee will go, and how mudi 
time is sayod by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as 
barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and 
no food giyen for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. 

To Choose Eggs at Market, and Preserve tliexn.— Put 
tiie large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels warm it is new. 
In new-laid eggs there is a small diyision of the skin from the 
shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the 
end. On looking thi'ough them agcainst the sun or a candle, if 
&eah« eggs will be pretty dear. If they shake they ore not fresh. 



Eggs xxiBy be bought cheapest when the hens first begm to lay 
in &e spring* before they sit ; in Lent and at Easter the^ become 
dear. They may be preserved fresh by dipping tkem in boiling 
water and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell, 
either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it ; or 
kept on shelves with small holes to receive one m each, and be 
turned every other day ; or close packed in a keg, and covered 
with strong lime-water. 

iPeathers. — In towns, poultry being usually sold readj; picked, 
the feathers, which may occasionally come in smaJl quantities, are 
neglected s but orders should be given to put them into a 
tub free from damp, and as thev dry to change them into paper 
bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season t 
fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will 
occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the samo 
process. In a few months they will be £t to add to beds, or to 
make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool 
oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six 
months. 

Duoks generally begin to hiy in tlie month of February. 
Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem 
inclined to sit ; then leave them, and see that there are enough. 
Th^ require no attention while sitting, except to give them food 
at the time they come out to seek it ; and there should be water 
placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not 
be spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen 
eggs are enough. In an early season it is best to put them under 
a nen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little 
strength to bear it, which in very cold weather they cannot do so 
well. They should be kept under cover, effpeeially in a wet season ; 
for though water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt 
to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to 
defend them. 

Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which 
would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the 
water to lay in are advantegeous, and tliese might be small wooden 
houses, with a partition in the middle, and door at each end. 
They eat anything, and when to be fattened must have plenty, 
however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. 

Geeaa require little expense, as thev chiefly support them- 
selves, on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The 
largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. The 
pied and dark-coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally 
the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes 
hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded brau 
and light oats ; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep 
them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley- 
meal, bran, curds, £c. For green goese, begin to fatten them at 
six or seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble geese 
retfuire no fattening if they have the run of good fields. 

Turkeys are very tenoer when young. As soon as hatched* - 

» 2 



196 PEl FOWL— GtTIKEA HEN»— PIOBQNB. 

put three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is neces- 
sary to their well-being, because the hen is so careless that she 
will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even 
tread upon and kill them. Turkeys are violent eaters, and must 
therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except 
one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days ; 
and the young ones must be kept warm, as me least cold or damp 
kills them. They must be fed often, and at a distance from thie 
hen, \vho will eat everything from them. They should have 
curds, ffreen-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with 
choppea wormwood in it ; and their drink milk and water, but 
not left to be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, there- 
fore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come ; 
weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at veiy small crevices. 

Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the 
sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should not 
be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evenin£[. Twelve 
eggs are enou^ to put under a turkey, and when she is about to 
lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually 
begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen- 
house ; ana give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom 
them to roosting there. Fatten Uiem with sodden oats or barley 
for the first fortnie[ht ; and the last fortnight give them as above, 
and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The 
fiesh will be beautifully white and fine flavoured. The common 
way is to cram them ; but they are so ravenous that it seems unne- 
cessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes 
them poor. 

Pea Fowl. — Feed them as you do turkeys. Thejr are so shj 
that they are seldom foimd for some days after hatching ; and it 
is very wron^ to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in the 
idea of bringing them home ; for it only causes the hen to carry 
the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying she 
treads upon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he can 
get at, by one blow on the centre of the head wiOi his bill ; and he 
does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown 
come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep them out of 
his way till the feathers rise. 

Guinea Hens la3r a great number of eggs ; and if you can 
discover the nest it is best to put them under common hens, 
which are better nurses. They require great warmth, quiet, 
and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, or bread soaked 
in it. Put two peppercorns down their throat when first 
hatched. 

Pigeons bring two young ones at a time, and breed everj 
month, if well looked after and plentifully fed. They should be 
kept very clean, and the bottom of the dovecote be strewed witb. 
sand, once a month at least. Tares, beans, and peas, are their 

g roper food, .They should have plenty of fresh water in their 
ouse. Sterlings and other birds are apt to oome among them, 
ana suok the eggs. Yennia Ukewise are their great enenueii and 



8ICK COOKEBT— GENEBAL BEMABK8. 197 

deittoy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame 
pigeons of the common kind and of their own colour among 
them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock 
birds ; for they are quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove- 
cote. 

Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them healthy. Lay a large 
heap of clay near the house ; and let the salt brine that may be done 
with in the family be poured upon it. 

Bay salt and cummin seeds mixed are a universal remedy for the 
diseases of pigeons . The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby ; 
in which case, take a quarter of a pound of bay salt, and as much 
Common salt, a pound of fennel seed, a pound of dill seed, as much 
cummin seed, and an ounce of assafcetida ; mix all with a little 
wheaten flour, and some fine-worked clay ; when all are well 
beaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in 
the oven. When cold, put them on the table in the dovecote ; 
the pigeons will eat it, and thus be cured. 

Babbits. — ^The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great 
care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one 
brings forth every month, and must be allowed to go with the 
buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, 
sow-thistle, parsley, carrot tops, cabbage leaves, and bran, fresh 
and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, 
their ^tench will destroy themselves, and be very unwholesome 
to all who live near them ; but attention will prevent this in- 
convenience. 



COOKEBY FOB THE SICK, AND FOB THE 

POOB. 

The following pages will contain cookery for the sick ; it being of 
more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not 
allow them to take the necessary nourishmenti than to stimu- 
late that of persons in health. 

It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of 
the things most likely to agree with the patient ; that a change 
be provided ; that some one at least be suways ready ; that not 
too much of those be made at once, which &i;e not likely to 
keep, as invalids require variety ; and that they should succeed 
each other in different forms and flavours. 

A clear Broth that will keep long.— Put the mouse round 
of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into 
a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust : bake till 
the beef is done enoush for eating, with only as much water as 
will cover. "When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to 
be used, give what flavour may be approved. 

A Quick-made Broth.— Take a bone or two of a neck or 
loin of mutton, take ofl* the fat and skin, set it on the Are in a 
small tin saucepan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint 
of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits ; put a 



198 SSOTS df 'S^lf, UtTTTOV, AITS rElI.^fifi£ SROTd. 

bit of thyme and parsley, and if approved a slice of onion. TM it 
boil very quick, skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely to be 
too weak j else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole 
prooesd. 

A very Supporting Broth against any kind of Wefak- 
neBS.-^Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large hand- 
ful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off pait of the 
fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint 
three or four times a day. 

A vety Nourishing Veal Broth.— Put the knuckle of a 
leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and 
four shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, 
Aree blades of mace, ten pepper corns, an onion, and a large bit of 
bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, 
and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been 
skimmed : or bake it ; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. 
It will require four hours. 

Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Veal.*-Put two pounds of 
lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mut- 
ton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin saue^an, 
witii five quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts ; and clear from 
the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. 

Soup and broth made of different meats are more suj^porting, as 
well as better flavoured. 

To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible ; 
and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or 
cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every 
particle. 

Calves' Feet Broth.— Boil two feet in three quarts of water 
to half; strain and set it by; when to be used, take off the fat, 
put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass 
of sweet wine, a httle sugar and nutmeg, and beat it up till it be 
ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the 
yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butler, the size of a nutmepr, 
stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh 
lemon-peel mto it. 

Another .-^Boil two calves' feet, two ounces of veal, and two of 
beef, the bottom of a pennv loaf, two or three blades of mace, half 
a nutmeg sliced, and a Httie salt, in three quarts of water, to three 
I>mt8 ; strain, and take off the fat. 

Chicken Broth.— Put the body and legs of the fowl that 
CTicken panada was made of, as in page 200, after taking off the 
skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one olade of 
mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer 
till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add 
a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds, with a tea- 
spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, When cold, 
remove the fat. 

Bel Broth.*— Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on 
inth three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few 



Sep]>6r«coYnB $ let them aimiaer till tke eek are broken, and the 
rota good. Add salti and strain it off. 

The above should make three half-pints of broth. 

Tenoh Broth. — ^Make as eel broth abore. They are both 
Y^ijnr nutritious, and light of digestion. 

Beef Tea.— Cut a pound of fleshy beef into thin slices ; sim« 
mer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once 
boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has 
generally only salt. 

Dr. BatoiifPs Bestorative Perk-ieUy.— Take a leg of 
well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and brealc the bone. Set it 
over a gentle Are, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. 
Let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. 
Strain through a flne sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a 
chocolate cup the first and last tiding, and at noon, putting salt to 
ta«te. 

Shank Jelly. — Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then 
brush and seour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan with 
three blades of maee, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or 
forbr black peppers, a bmich of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread 
made verv orown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to 
them, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered ; let them sim- 
mer as goatly as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put 
it in a cold place. 

This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for 
flavour. It is a remiurkably good thing for peojple who are weak. 

Arrow-root Jelly.— Of wis beware of havmg the wrong sort, 
for it has been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is 
veiy nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a saucepan 
half a pint of water, a glass of sherry, or a spoonful of brandy, 
grated nutmeg, and fine sugar ; boil once up, tnenmijc by degrees 
into a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, 
with two spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the whole into the 
saucepan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 

Tapiooa Jelly .^-Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on 
to wash it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or 
six hours, and simmer it in the same imtil it become quite clear ; 
then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. Tlie peel should have 
been boiled in it. It thickens very much. 

Gloucester Jelly.— Take rice, sago, pearUbarley, hartshorn 
shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce ; sinimer with three 
pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelfy ; 
of which g^ve, dissolved in wine, milk, or broUi, in change with 
other nourishment. 

Fanada,made in five minutes.*~Seta little water on the fire 
with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrane of nutmeg 
and lemon-peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The 
moment the mixture boik up, keeping it still on the fire, put tiie 
crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can* When of a proper 
thkkness just to drink, take it off. 



200 (CHICKEN PANAMA— A OBfiAT BESlOBATlVfi. 

Another.— Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, put 
in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter ; sugar as above. 
This is a most feasant mess. 

Another.— Put to the water a bit of lemon peel, mix the 
crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon op 
orance srrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if any be 
added aiter, the panada will break, and not jelly. 

CMcken Panada. — ^Boil it tiU about uiree parts ready, in a 
quart of water, take off the skin, cut the white meat off when ooldf 
and put into a marble-mortar ; pound it to a paste with a little of 
the water it was boiled in, season with a little salt, a grate of nut- 
meg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few 
minutes to the consistency you like ; it should be such as you can 
drink, though tolerably thick. 

This conveys great nourishment in small compass. 

Sippets, when the Stomach will not receive Meat.— 
On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and 
pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there i$ 
no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. 

Eggs* — ^An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed 
with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea 
solely. 

An egg divided, and the ^olk and white beaten separately, then 
mixed with a glass of wme, will afford two very wholesome 
draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. 

Eggs verv little boded, or poached, taken in small quantity, 
convey much nourishment : the yolk only, when dressed, should 
be eaten by invalids. 

A great Bestorative.—Bake two calves' feet in two pints of 
water, and the same quantity^ of new mOk, in a jar closely covered, 
three hours and a hau. When cold remove the fat. 

Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. Whatever 
flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, 
or mace. Add sugar after. 

Another.— Simmer six sheep's trotters, two blades of mace, a 
little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little 
isinglass, in two quarts of water to one ; when cold, take off the 
fat, and give nearhalf a pint twice a-day, warming with it a little 
new milk. 

Another.— Boil an ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty Jamaica 
peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread in a quart of water to a 
pint, and strain it. 

This makes a pleasant ielly to keep in the house ; of which a 
large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, muk, tea, soup, 
or any way. 

Another, a most i>leasant Draught.— Boil a quarter of an 
ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new milk, to half: add 
a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. 

Give this at bed-time, not too warm. 

Dutch flummery, blancmange, and jellies, as directed in pages 
141, 142, and 147, or less rich according to judgment. 



COLD CAUDLB— &ICE OA^BLE-- TO MULL WJNB. 201' 

Caudle. — ^Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits ; strain it 
when boiled well, stir it at times till oold. When to be used, add 
suffar, wine, and lemon-jpeel, with nutmeg. Some Hke a spoonful 
of brandr besides the wme ; others like lemon-juice. 

Another. — ^Boil up half a pint of fine ffruel, with a bit of butter 
the; size of a large nutmeg(, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of 
white wine, one of capillau^, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. 

Another.— Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, when it is 
boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with 
a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix 
by degrees. It is reiy affreeable and nourishing. Some like 
gruel, with a glass of table Deer, sugar, &c., wither without a tea- 
spoonM of brandy. 

Cold Caudle. — ^Boil a ^uart of spring water ; when cold, add 
the yolk of an egg, the jmce of a small lemon, six spoonfuls of 
sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. 

A Flour Caudle. — Into five large spoonfuls of the purest 
water rub smooth one dessert-spoonM of nne flour. Set over the 
fire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it ; 
the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it 
over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a^nourishia^ and gently 
astringent food. This is an excellent food for babies who have 
weak bowels. 

Bice Caudle. -7 When the water boils, pour into it some 
grated rice nuxed with a little cold water ; when of a proper con- 
sistence add sugar, lemon peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of 
brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. 

Another. — Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain 
it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of 
milk ; smimer tUl it will pulp through a sieve ; then put the pulp 
and milk into the saucepan with a bruised clove and a bit of white 
sugar. Simmer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two 
of milk, and serve with thin toast. 

To Mull Wine.— Boil some spice in a little water till the 
flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar, 
and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with toast. 

Another way.— -Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nut- 
meg a few minutes in a large cupful of water ; then pour to it a 
pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste : heat it up and it 
will be ready. 

Or, it may be made of good British wine. 

To Make Coffee. — ^Fut two ounces of fresh ground cofiee, of 
the best quality, into a coflee-pot, and pour eight cofiee-cups of 
boiling water on it ; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two 
or three times, and return it again , then put two or three isin- 
glass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on 
it ; boil it five minutes more, and set tne pot by the fire to keep 
hot for ten minutes, and you will have conee of a beautiful clear- 
ness. 

Fine cream should always be served with cofiee, and either 
pounded sugar-candy or fine Lisbon sugar. 



If ioft fomgMn, or tHosd who like it extremely strooff, ttutke 
only eight dkaes from three onnoes. If not fresh roastea, lay it 
before a fire tmtil perfectly hot and dry ; or yon may put the 
smallest bit of fresh bott^ into a preserring |niii of a small size, 
and wh^i hot» throw the coffee in it and toss it about until it be 
fresh^ied, letting it be cold before groond. 

CoiSee Milk. ^-^ Boil a dessert-epooiii\il of ground coffee in 
nearly a pint of milk a quarter of an hour r th^i pnt into tt a 
shaving or two of isinglass and clear it ; kt it b(»l a few miiiiEtes, 
and set it on the side of the fire to grow hn». 

This is a very fine breakfast ; it should be sweetened with real 
Lisbon sngar of agood quality. 

Chocolate. — Those who use much of this arttde will find the 
following mode of preparing it both useful and eeon<»nioal. 

Out a cake of chocolate m v^^ small bits ; pat a pint of water 
into the pot; and when it boils put in the above ; mill it off the 
fire until ^mte melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils $ pour it 
into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place mght or ten daySy or 
more. When wanted, put a spoonM ot two into milk, boil it with 
sugaa*, and mill it weU. 

This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. 

Patent Oocoa is a light wholesome breakfast. 

Saloop.— Boil a little water, wine, lemon peel, and sugar to- 
l^ther I men lOix with a small quantity of the powder, previously 
fubbed smooth, with a little cold water; star it altogether, and 
boil it a ^w minutes. 

Milk Porridge.-— Make a fine gruel of half^^ts, long boiled; 
atrsan off; eitiier add eold milk, or warm with milk, as may be ap- 
proved. Serve with toast. 

l^noh MiUt Porridge.— Stir some oatmeal and water to- 
gether, let it stand to be clear, and pour off the latter ; pour fresh 
upon it, f^tir it Well, let it stand till next day ; etttan Ihrou^ a 
fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk whUe doing, xhe 
pTOOortion of water must be small. 

This is much ordered,, witia toast, for the breakfast of weak 
persons, abroad. 

Gtoimd*riee Mlllt^— Boil one spoonful of ground-rice rubbed 
down tonooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, 
lemon peel, and nutaneg. Sweeten when neariy done. 

Sago. — To prevent the earthy taste soak it in cold wnter an 
hour ; pour that off, and wash it well ; then add more, and simmer 
gently tin the berries are clear, with lemon peel and spioe, if ap- 
proved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together^ 

Sago liimk.^— Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly 
With new milk. It swells so much that a small quantity will be 
sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about 
a pint. It requires no sugar or fiav<mring. 

Asses' Milk far surpasses any imitation of it that can be 
made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by 
being in a bamn of hot water. 

The fixed air that it tsonitanB gives some people a pain in the 



AMiaiQUX, ASIBS* JULK-^W^TUI OSUSL. SOS 

ftemach. At first a tea*8poofiful of mm may be takea with 
it» but should only be put in ^e moment it it to be swallowed. 

Artificial Asses' Milk.— Boil together a auart of water, a 
quart of new milk, an ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce 
of erinflo-root, and half i^ ounce of conserre of roses, till half be 
wastedT 

This is asiaingent, therefore proportion the doses to the effect 
and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. 

Anotner.— Mix two spoonftds of boiling water, two of milk, 
and an egg weU beaten; sweeten with pounded white sugar- 
candy. Tms may be taken twice or thrice a day. 

Another. — Boil two ounces of hartshom-shayings, two ounces 
of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, and one dozen 
of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. 
Mix with it an equal quantity of new milk, when taken twice a 
da y. 

water GrueL— Put a large spocmM of oatmeal by degrees 
into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. 

•An<ykher way*--^Bub smooth a large spoonM ot oatmeal, 
with two of water, and ^our it into a pint of water boiling on the 
fire ; stir it well, and holl it quick, but take care it does not boil 
over. In a quarter of an hour strain it off, and add salt and a bit 
of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. 

Barley GnieL— Wash 4 oe. of pearl-barley, boil it in two 
quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart ; 
strain and return it iuto the saucepan with sugar, and three- 
quarters of a pint of port wino. Heap up, and use as wanted. 

A \nery agreeable Brink.*— Into a tumbler of fresh cold 
water, pour a table-spoonful of capillaire, and the same of good 
vinegar. 

Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants or 
cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with a little eugar, or not, as 
may be agreeable. 

A Befi^eshing Drink in a Fever.^Fut a little tea-sage, two 
ffprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel into a stone jug, having 
first washed and dried them; peel thin a small lemon, and clear 
from ike white $ slice it, and put a bit of the peel in, then pour in 
three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. 

Another Diink.--Wash extremely well an ounce of pearl- 
barley s shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce 
of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon peel *, boil till 
you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and 
capiUaire. 

Another .-^Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half 
of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned 
raisins, till near a third be consumed. Starain it on a bit of lemon 
peel, which remove in an hour, as it givet a bitter taste if left 
long. 

A most pleasant Drink.— Put a tea-cupful of cranbemes 
into a cup of water, and mash them. In the meantime boil two 
qoarta of water with one huge spoonM of oaitm^ and a bit of 



2©4 YSA8T AKD WATEfi— BAHtfiT WitEE-^IEMOlT WATEft. 

lemon peel ; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbdn 
sngar as shall leaye a smart flavour of the fruit ; and about a 
quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as majbe proper; boil the 
whole for half an hour, and 8ii*ain off. 

Soft and Fine Draught for those who are weak and 
have a Cough. — ^Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it well with a 
quarter of a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capil- 
laire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg, scraped. Do not 
warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thin^. 

Toast and Water.— Toast slowlv a thin piece of bread till 
extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge 
it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. 
This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine 
brown colour before drinking. 

Barley Water.— Wash a handful of common barley, then 
simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon peel. 

This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barley ; but the other is 
a very pleasant drink. 

Another way. — Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes, 
to cleanse, then put on it a ^uart of water, simmer an hour ; when 
half done, put mto it a bit of fresh lemon peel, and one bit of 
sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of 
a pint of water. Lemon juice may be added if chosen. 

iiemon Water, a DelightftQ Drink.— Put two slices of 
lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a Httle bit of the peel, and a bit 
of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling 
water, and stop it close two hours. 

Apple Water. — Out two large apples in slices, and ^our a 
quart of boiling water on them, or on roasted apples ; strain it two 
or three hours, and sweeten lightly. 

Raspberry Vinegar Water.— (See page 168.) This is one 
of the most delightful drinks that can be made. 

Whey. — ^That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially 
when the cows are in f resh herbage. < 

White Wine Whey.— Put half a pint of new milk on the 
fire ; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine 
as will completely turn it, and look clear ; let it boil up, then set 
the saucepan aside tiU the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Po\ir 
the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit 
of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of 
milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. 

Vinegar and Iiemon Wheys.— Pour into boiling milk as 
much vinegar or lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite 
clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a 
bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine i 
and if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. 

Buttermilk, witn or without Bread.— It is most whole- 
some when sour, as being less likely to be heavy ; but most agree- 
able when made of sweet cream. 

Dr. Boerhaave's Sweet Buttermilk.— Take the milk 
£K>m the oow into a BxasU chum, of about 68. price $ in about leu 



0BAiroXADE*-E0O WIKB-*COOXBBT FOB THB POOB. 205 

mmuies begin chunung, and continne so to do till the flakes of 
butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk has discharged all 
the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it tm*ough 
a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. 
'. It should form the whole of the patient's drink, and the food 
should be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort ; ripe and 
dried fruits, of various kinds, when a decline is apprehended. 
, Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent 
suppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake. 

Orgeat. — Beat two ounces of dmonds with a tea-spoonful of 
orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a 
quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar, or 
capUlaire. This is a flne drink for those who have a tender chest ; 
and in the cout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half 
an ounce of gum arabic, has been found to allay the painfulness of 
the attendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if 
thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and tiie glass of 
orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. 

Another oi|;eat, for company, is in page 168. 

Orangeaofey or Iiemonade. — Squeeze the juice from a dozen 
of the fruit ; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover 
close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. "Wlien 
all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the s^up, with as 
much more water as will make a rich sherbet ; strain through a 
jelly-bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and 
capiUaire. 

Sigg Wine.-— Beat an egg, mix it with a spoonful of cold water ; 
set on the fire a glass of wmte wine, half a glass of water, sugar, 
and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by 
degrees till the whole be in, stimngit well ; then return the whole 
into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not 
more than a minute : for if it Eoil, or the egg be stale, it wUl 
curdle. Serve with toast. 

Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, 
and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to 
the taste. 

COOKEBY FOB THE POOB.— General Bemarks 
and Hints. — I promised a few hints, to enable every family to 
assist the poor of their neijghbourhood at a very trivial ex- 
pense : and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of 
tlie mistress. 

Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable pre- 
4sent, and a very common one. 

When the oven is hot, a large pudding may be baked, and given 
to a sick or young family ; and thus made, the trouble is little : — 
Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of 
coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of 
dripping ; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but 
bo an excellent solid food. 

A very good meal may ba bestowed in a thing called brewis. 
which is thus made {—Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and 



20d A BAKSB mUT, 

put it iato the pot wli^re salt beef is boilmgr <vad nenx ready: it 
Tvili attract some of the fat, and vfhen sweUeid out, will be no un- 
palatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. 

A Baked Soup.— Put a pound of any kmd of meat ent in 
sHces ; two onions, two carrote, ditto ; two ounces of riee, a pint 
of split peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, nepper and salt, 
into an earthen jug or ^an, ana pour one galkm of water. Corer 
it very dose, and bake it with the bread. 

The cook should be charged to save the boiling <^ every piece^ 
of meat, ham, tongue, &c., nowever salt : as it is easy to use only 
a part of that, and liie rest of fresh water, and by the addition of 
ZEiore vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the 
pieces of meat that oome ^m table on the plates, and rice, Scotch 
bariey, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons or nutritious soup 
two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be onlr 
warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, &c., IxHled till 
thev 3rield their nourishment. If the thin^^s are ready to put in ^e 
boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and 
second cooking. 

Take turnips, earrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, 
e^ery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; cat ^em smaS» 
and throw in with the thick part of peas, after thev have been* 
pulped for 8oap> and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been 
used for gruel. 

Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, 
and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the 
laborious poor can obtain ) especially as they are rarely tolerable 
cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But m 
every family there is some superfluity ; and if it be prepared with 
deanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, 
and the satisfaction no less to the giver. 

I found, in the time of scareity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup 
could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, 
&ough the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about 
Lcmdon, abounding with opulent numlies, the quant^y of t^i gal- 
lons were made in ten gentlemen's houses, there would be a 
hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the 
supply of forty poor families, at the rate o£ two gallons and a half 
eaeh. 

What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and 
cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal ! To the sick, aged, and 
infant branches, how important an advantage ! nor less to the in- 
dustrious mother whose forbearance from me necessary quantity 
of food, that others may have a larger ehare^ frequently reduces 
that strength upon which the weliare of her family essentially 
depends. 

It very rarely happens that servants object to seconding the 
kindness of their superiors to the poor ; but should the cook in 
any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gra- 
tuity at the end of the winter might repay her, if the love of her 
^ow-ereatttres failed of doing it a hundredfold. Did she readil/ 



AV EXCniUKV «0t9P VOE THIS WXAXLT. M7 

enter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, the peas or 
niti of wiiiek soup or gruel had been made ; broken potefcoea* 
the ^een heads of ceIory> tb^ neeks and feet of fowls, and 
particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles 
whieh in Dreparing dinner for the family are tlirown aside. 

Pish anoras oreat nouriehment, and that not by the part eaten 
only, but the ooneci* heads, and fina, whieh contain iainglasB> 
When the fish ia served, let the cook put by some of the wnter, and 
stew in it the above ; as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, 
until ahe obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when 
it makes a delightM broth, she should add a veiy small bit 
of onion, some pepper, and a little rice floor rubbed down smooth 
with it. 

Bat atrained, it makes a delioiona improvement to the meat 
soup, purtioularly for the siek ; and when such are to be supplied, 
the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be uned for 
them, wUh little, if any, of ^ hquor of the aalt meats. 

The fat should not be taken oh the broth or fioap» as ike poor 
like it, and are nourished by it. 

An ^xoellent Soup for the Weakly.— Put two eow-heels, 
and a breast of mutton, into a large pan, with four ounces of nee^ 
one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers, and twenty black, a tnmipya 
carrot, and four gaUons of water ; eaver with brown paper, and 
bake six hours. 

Sago. — Put a tea-oupful of sago into a quart of watw, and a 
bit oflemon peel ; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add 
half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar and two spoonfula of 
Geneva; boil all up together. 

It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has lefl^ 
yery feeble. 

Caudle for the Sick and Lying-in.—- Set three quarts of 
water on the £re ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will ihioken. 
the whole, with a pint of ecdd water ; when boiling pour the latter 
in, and twentv Jamaica peppers in ^e powder ; boil to a good 
middling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of weH-fenaented 
table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. 

This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalcu- 
lable service. 

There is not a better occasion for charitable commis^ation 
than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent 
unexj^ectedly nas often been the means of recalling long-lost 
appetite. 

Nor are the indigent alone the gi*ateful receivers; for in the 
highest houses a real good siek cook is rarely met with ; and 
many who possess all me goods of fortune have attributed the 
first return of health to an appetite excited by good kitchen 
physic, as it is called. 



208 TO MAKIS fiOFT FOMA^TinC^POirADB DITIKE. 

VABIOirS BECEIFTS, AND DIRECTIOITS FOB 

SERVANTS. 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS.~To Make Soffc Pomatum.— 
Beat half a pound of iinsalted fresh lard in common water ; then 
soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two 
spoonfuls of brandy ; let it drain from this, add to it some essence 
of lemon, and keep it in small pots. 

Another way.— Soak half a pound of clear beef-marrow and 
a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two or three days, ohang* 
ing and beating it evei;;;^ day. Put it into a sieye, and when dry, 
into a jar, and the jar mto a saucepan of water. When melted* 
pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy : 
drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, begamot, or 
anyother scent that is liked. 

Hard Pomatum. — Prepare equal quantities of beef-marrow 
and mutton-suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and 
addinff the scent ; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, 
into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. When cold, 
break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper 
round the rolls. 

Pomade Divine. — Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow 
&om the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel of 
water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and 
morning for ten days; then steep it in rose-water twenty-four 
hours, and drain it m a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of 
each of the following articles — namely, storax, gum-benjamin, 
odoriferous cypress-powder, or of Florence : half an ounce of cin- 
namon, two drams of cloves, and two drams of nutmeg, all finely 
powdered ; mix them with the marrow above prepared, then put 
all the ingredients into a pewter pot that holds three pints ; make 
a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of rag. 
Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the 
pot very close that none of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot 
mto a large copper pot, with water, observing to keep it steady, 
that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the 
marrow. As the water shrinks, add more boihngf hot, for it must 
boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment 
through a linen cloth into smaU pots, and, when cold, cover them. 
Do not touch it with anything but silver. It will keep many 
years. 

A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh 
marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of hog's-lard, on the 
ingredients : and then observing the same process as before. 

Pot Pourri. — Put into a large china jar the foDowing ingre- 
dients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers ; two 
pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown, violets, 
orange-flowers, and jasmme, a handful of each ; orris-root sUoed, 
benjamin and Btorax, two. ounces of each ; a quarter of an ounce 



TO HAKE WASH-BALLS— PASTE FOB CHAPPED LIPS. 208 

of musk, a quarter of a i>ound of angelica-root sliced* a quart of 
ih» red parts of olove-gillyflowers, two handfuls of lavender* 
flowers, half a handful of rosemary-flowers, bay and laurel leaves, 
half a handful of each; three Seville oranges, stuck as full of 
cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded ; half a hand- 
^1 of knotted maijoram, and two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. 
Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is 
veiy fine. 

A qtdoker Sort of Sweet Pot.— Take three haixdfuls of 
orange-flowers, three of clove-gillyflowers, three of damask roses, 
one of knotted maijoram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a 
liandful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half a one of mint, one of 
lavender, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. 
Chop all, and put them in layers, with pounded bay salt between 
up to the top of the jar. 

If all the mgredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you 
get them, always throwing in salt with every new article. 

To Make w ash-Balls.-— Shave thin two pounds of new 
white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water ; then pour as 
much boilmg water ojl it as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a 
pint of sweet oil, four penny-worth of oil of almonds, half a pound 
of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved ; then add the 
soap, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to 
powder by rubbing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirits of 
wine or lavender-water, or anjr other scent. Boil ten minutes, 
then pour it into a basin, and stir it tiU it is quite thick enough to 
roll up into haxd balls, which must then be done as soon as pos- 
sible. If essence is tised, stir it in quick after it is taken on the 
fire that the flavour may not fly ofl*. 

Paste for Chapped Hands, and which will preserve them 
smooth by constant use.— Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted 
hog*s lard, which has been washed in common and then rose- 
water, with the yolks of two new-laid eg^s and a large spoonful of 
honey. Add as much flne oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work 
into a paste. 

For Chapped Lips.— Put a quarter of an ounce of gum ben- 
lamin, storax, and spermaceti, twopennv-worth of alkanet-root, a 
large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a 
quarter of a pound of unsalted butter, and two ounces of bees-wax 
into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax, &c., are 
dissolved, and then strain it through a linen cloth. When cold 
melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes, or if to make 
cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. 

Hungary Water.— To one pint of highly rectified spirit of 
tvine put an ounce of oil of rosemary and two drams of essence of 
ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork 
remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which 
time rfiake it daily, put the water into small bottles. 

HonOT Water. — Take a pint of spirit as nbove, and three 
drams ofessence of ambergris ; shake them well daily. 

• 



^ 



ilO lAVENDEB WATEE— BLICK INlC. 

tiavender Water.— Take a pint of spirit as above, essential 
oil of lavender one onnce, essence of ambergris two drams ; put 
all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. 

An excellent Water to prevent Hair from FaQing-off 
and to Thicken it.—Put four pounds of unadulterated honey 
into a still, with twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the 
same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as 
possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to 
taste sour.* 

Black Paper for Drawing Patterns^— Mix and smooth 
lamp-black and sweet-oil : with a bit of flannel cover a sheet or 
two of large writing-paper with this mixture ; then dab the paper 
diy witii a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the follow- 
ing manner. 

Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the 
corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black 
paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a 
steel pencu; the black paper will then leave the impression of the 
pattern on ike under sheet, on which you must now draw it with 
mk. 

If you draw patterns on cloth or muslin, do it with a pen dipped 
in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixed 
smooth in a tea-cup, in which it wffl be always ready for use ; if 
fresh, wet to a due consistence as wanted. . . 

Black Ink. — Take a gallon of rain or sofb water, and three 
quarters of a pound of blue galls, bruised ; infuse them three 
weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas, 
four ounces of logwood chips, six ounces of gum arable, and a 
wine-glassful of brandv. 

.Ajiother way.— Tne ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of 
the best preparations for this useful article. Directions are given 
with it how to mix it ; in addition to which, a large cup of sweet 
wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness of the 
japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it costs 
omy eighteen-pence, and that quanti^ will last a long time. 

To Cement Broken China.— Beat lime into the most im- 
palpable powder, sifb it through fine muslin ; then tie some into a 
thin muslin» put on the edges of the broken china some white of 
egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them 
exactly. 

An excellent Stucco, which will adhere to Wood- 
work. — Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yellow 




which should be new* If the wdl be quite smooth, one or two 
coats will do ; but each must be dry before the next is put on. 
The month of March is the best season for doing this. 

Mason's Washes for Stucco— Blue.— TR> four pounds of 
blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water, 
in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stimng it all the 



TO TAKE STAlNS OF ANY KIND OtJT OF tiNEN. 2ll 

time. Then pour it into an earthen pan ; and set it by for a day 
or two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix the 
colour with whitewasher's size. Wash the walls three or four 
tuaes, according as is necessary. 

Yellow.— Dissolve in soft water, over the fire, equal quantities 
separately of umber, bright ochre, and blije black. Then put it 
into as much whitewash as vou think sufficient for the work, some 
of each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add 
more of the others till you have the proper tint. 

The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing the lime and 
size with skim milk, instead of water. 

Boman dement, or Mortar for outside Plastering, 
or Brick- work. — This will resist all weather ; and may be used 
to great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate it. 

Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of un- 
«lacked lime and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through 
ftn iron grater. When well mixed, add enough hot (but not bod- 
ing) water to make into a proper consistence for plastering, such 
a quantity of the above na is wanted. It must nave good and 
^mck working. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it 
is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being 
left uncovered. The wall or lath- work should be covered first 
with hair and lime-mortar, and well dried. This was used by the 
ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Sufiblk cheese does 
better than any other of this country. 

TO TAKE STAINS OP ANY KIND OUT OlP 
IflNEN.— Stains caused by Acids.— Wet the part and lay- 
on it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting it 
with more water. 

Another. — Let the cloth imbibe a little water without dipping, 
and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The 
spots will bo removed by the sulphureous gas. 

Another way. — Tie up in the stained part some pearlash ; 
then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and 
boil the Imen till the stain disappears. 

Stains ofWine, !Fruit, &;c., after they have been long 
in the Linen.— Bub the part on each side with yellow soa^. 
Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it 
well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes 
out. If not removed in three or four days, rub that pfi^, and re- 
new the process. When dry it may be sprinkled with a little 
water. 

Many other Stains may b^ taken out bydipping the linen in 
sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun.--Then wash it in cold 
water, and dry it, two or three times a day. 

Ironmoulds should be wetted ; then laid on a hot water- 
plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. ^ If the 
linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the process ; observing that 
the plate is kent boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the 
name of salt ot lemons is a spurious preparation ; and therefore it 
id necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it 

02 



212 TO DYE THE LININGS OF FV&NIXUAE. 

OB 80011 as the stain is removed to prerent the part from being 
irorn into holes by the acid. / 

To Take out Mildew. — Mix soft soap with starch powdered, 
half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on the part of 
both sides with a painter's brush. Let it lie on the grass day and 
night till the stain comes out. 

To Make Flannels Keep their Colour, and not Shrixjik. 
-^Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them 
lie till cold the first time of washing. 

To Preserve Furs and Woollen trovi Moths.— Let the 
former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter be 
brushed and shaken. When not wanted, dry them first, let them 
be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary 's^ 
in smaU muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, care- 
fully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. 

TO DYE THE IiI&INGHS OF FUBlrtTUBB, Ac- 
Buff or Salmon Colour, acoording to the Depth of the 
Hue. — ^Bub down on a ^wter plate twopenny-worth of Spanish 
amatta, and then boil it m a pad of water a quarter of an hour. 
Put into it two ounces of pot^h, stir it round, and instantly put 
in the lining ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which must 
be five or six minutes ; then put it into cold pump water* aJid 
hang the articles up singly without ringing. When almost dry, 
fold and mangle it. 

Fink. — ^The calico must be washed extremely^clean and be 
dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of 
alum : take it out, and dry in the air. Li the meantime boil in 
the alum-water two handfuls of wheat-bran till auite slippery, and 
then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ouncefs 
of argall finely pounded and sifted ; mix it with the liquor bv 
little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico, andl)oil till 
it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the calico, and 
wash it in chamber- lye first, and in cold water after ; then ringe it 
in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it in 
folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendcied, 
which is best. 

Blue. — ^Let the calico be washed clean and dried; them mix 
some of Scot's liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to 
cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it, to give a 
light stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deep 
enough ; then set the linen, &c., into it, and wash it ; tiien dry tb,e 
articles singly, and mangle or calender them. 

To Dye Gloves to look like York Tan or Limerick, 
according to the Deepness of the Dye.— Put some safi^n 
into a pint of soil water boiling hot, and let it infuse all night; 
next morning wet the leather over with a brush. The tops should 
be sewn clos e to prevent the colour from getting in. 

To Dye White Gloves a beautiftil Purple.— Boil four 
ounces of logwood and two ounces of roche-alum in three pinto 
of soft water till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after sprain- 
ing. Let the gloves be nicely mended ; then with a brush do it 



DIRECTIONS TO SEBYAVTS. 213 

Ofer them, and when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless 
the colour is to be venr dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye 
with a coarse cloth. !oeat up the white of an eg^, and with a 
sponge rub it oyer the leather. The dye will stam the hands, 
but wetting them with vinegar wiU take it off, before they are 
washed. 

A Liquor to Wash Old Deeds, &o. on Paper or Parch- 
ment, when the Writing is Obliterated, or when Sunk, 
to make it Le^ble.— Take five or six gaUs, bruise them, and 
put them into a pmt of strong white wine : let it stand in the sun 
two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of 
the writing which is sunk ; and by the colour you will see whether 
it is strong enough of the galls. 

To Prevent the Bot in Sheep.--£eep them in the pens till 
the dew is off thegrass. 

To Prevent ween Ha:sr from Firing.— Stuff a sack as full 
of straw or hay as possible : tie the mouth with a cord ; and make 
the rick round the sack, cbawing it up as the rick advances in 
height, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the 
centre preserves it. 

To Preserve a Granary from Insects and Weasels.— 
Make the floor of Lombardy poplars. 

To Destroy Crickets.— Put Scotch snuff upon the holes 
where they come. 

DIBECTIONS TO SERVANTS.— To Clean CaUco 
Furniture when taken down for the Summer.— Shake off 
the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furni- 
ture brush ; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and 
rub it with dry bread. 

If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, 
and u the colour be not light, they will not require washing for 
years. 

Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. 

While the mmiture remams up, it snould be preserved from 
the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours ; 
mid the dust may be blown off with bellows. 

By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even to use 
with the linings newly dipped. 

To Clean Plate. — BoU an ounce of prepared hartshorn- 
powder in a quart of water ; while on the fire, put into it as much 
Slate as the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, 
rain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the fire. ^ Put in 
more, and serve the same, till you have done. Then put into the 
tvater some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, 
they will serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things 
to clean the brass locks and finger-plates of doors. When 
the plate is quite dry, it must be rubbed bright with leather. 
This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a 
mixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious; and, amoujp; 
other disadvantages^ it makes silver so brittle that from a fall it 
will break. 



214 TO PRESERVE OIipiNG, AND CI.E4N IT. 

To Cleai^ tookin^-glaasee.— Remove tlie fly-stains, and 
other soil, by a damp rag; tneii polisli witli woollen cl6th and 
powder blue. 

' To Preserve Gilding, and Clean it.— -It is not possible to 
prevent flies from staining the gilaing without covering it ; before 
which, blow ofi" the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush 
oyer it ; then, with s j;rips of paper cover the frames of your glasses, 
aiid do not remove it till the flies are gone. ' • 

Linen takes ofl* the gilding,' aud deadens its brightness: it 
should therefore never be used fbt Iviping it. ; 

Some means should be used io destroy the flies, as they ixnure 
furnittire of every kind, and the paper likewise. Bottles hung about 
with sugar and vinegar, or beer, will attract fhem ; or fly-water 
put into little shells placed about the room, but out of thfe reach 
6f children. • ^ 

To Clean Paint.— l^ever use a cloth, but take off* the dust with 
Ik little long-haired* brush, after blowing off* the loose part with 
^e bellows. With care, pairit wul look Well for a lengA of time, 
y^hen soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, 
wash it off" quickly, and dry immediately, or the strength of iiie 
soda will eat off* the colour. 

Whelii wainscot requires scouring, it shoul^ be done from the 
top downwards, and the soda be prevented from runninff on |he 
uiicleah part as much is possible, or marks will be made which 
will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry 
with old linen as fast as the other has scoured oif the dirt and 
washed the soda off*. ' 

To Clean Paper Hangings.— First blow off the dust with 
the bellows: Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. 
Take the crust into your hand, and, beginning at the top of the 
paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the crumb. 
Vo not cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the 
crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above half 
a yard at a stroke and after doing all the upper part, go round 
again, beginning a little aboVe'Whfere yoti left off*. 'If you do not 
do it extremely lightly, you will make the dii^t adhere to iii6 
paper. . . - 

It will look like new if properly done. 

To Give a Fine Gloss to Oak Wainscof.— If greasy, it 
must be washed with warm beer ; then' boil 'tw6 quarts of stiSong 
beer, a bit of bees'-wax as large as a walnut, ^and k large spoonfd 
of sugar ; wet it all over wiA A large brush, And when dry rub i|j 
till bright. '" ..... 

To Give a Fine Colour to Mahogany.— Let the tables be 
washed perfectly clean with Vine^f, having first taken' Out t.ny 
ink stains there may be with spim' of salt ; but it itiust be used 
with the greatest care, and omy touch the t^ affected, and be 
instantlywashed off". Use the following liquid r~Intb A pint of 
cold-drawn linseed oil, put four pennyworth o^ alkanet-root, land 
two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel ; let it remain 
all night, then stirring well, tub some of it all over the tables witli 



TO TAKE INK OUT OF HAHOGAKT— PIOOR CtOTHS. 215 

a linen rag ; when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen 
cloths. 

Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to 
prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are 
taken off, while still warm. 

To Take Ink out of Ijllahogany.— Dilute half a tea-spoonful 
of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water', and touch tne part 
with a feather; watch it, for if it stays toolon^ it will leave a 
white mark, it is, therefore, better to rub it quick, and repeat if 
not quite removed. 

Moor Cloths should be chosen that are painted on a fine 
cloth, that' ii^ well covered with the colour, and the flowers on 
which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. 
The durability of the cloth will depend much on these two parti- 
culars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and 
the goodness of the colours. If they have not deen allowed suffi- 
cient space for becoming hardened, a very little use will injure them; 
and as they are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is 
necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, 
either hungup in a dry barn where they wiU have air, or laid down 
in a spare room. When taken up for the winter, they should be 
rolled round a carpet Toiler, and observe not to crack the paint by 
turning the edges m too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely 
well, painted and seasoned some months before laid down. If for 
passages, the width must be directed when they arc sent to the 
manufactory, as they are cut before painting. 

To Clean Moor-cloths.— -Sweep, then wipe them with a 
flannel ; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a 
waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one ; use but Kttle wax, 
and rub only enough Tvith the latter to give a little smoothness, or 
it may endanger your falling. Washing now and then with milk 
after the above sweeping, and dry-rubbing them, give as beautiful 
a look, and they are less slippery. ' 

To Dust Carpets and Ploors.—Sprinkle tea-leaves on 
them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept fre- 
quently with a whisk brush, as it wears them fast ; only once a 
week, and the other times with leaves and a hair bilisn. Fine 
carpets should be gently done with a hair hand-brush, such as for 
cloths, on the knees. 

To Clean Old Carpets.— Take up the carpet, let it be well 
beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand*- 
brush : turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox-p:all, 
and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then 
lay it on the grass, or hang it up to dry. 

To Q-ive to Boards a Beautiflil Appearance.— After 
washing them very nicely clean with soap and warm water and a 
brush, wash them with a very large sponge and clean wat6ri Both 
times observe to leave no spot untottched j and clean straight up 
and down, not crossing from board to- board ; tikien dry with dean 

cloths, rubbing hard up and down in liie same way.- 

- The ftoors should not be often we%ted> but very thoroughly 



216 TO TAKE STAIXS OTTT OP MABBtE. 

when done ; and once a week dry rubbed with hot sand, and a 
heavy brush the right way of the boards. 

The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, or floor- 
cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or fiannd» 
aad the edges will not be soiled. Di£ferent sponges should be 
kept for the two above uses ; and those and the Tbrushes should be 
well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. 

To Extract Oil from Boards or Stone.— Make a strong 
l^e of pearl-ashes and soft water ; and add as much unslacked 
lime as it will take up ; stir it together, and let it settle a few 
minutes ; bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to 
lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should 
lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them ; there- 
fore do it with care and expedition. 

To Clean Stone Stairs and Halls.— Boil a pound of pipe- 
makers' clay, wilh a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and put 
in a pit of stone blue. Wash with this mixture, and, when dry, 
rub the stones with flannel and a brush. 

To Blacken the Fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces.— 
Mix oil-varnish with lamp black, and a little spirit of turpentine 
to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap 
and water very clean ; then sponge it with clear water ; and when 
perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry 
between the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp black 
must be sifted first. 

To Take Stains out of Marble.— Mix unslacked lime, in 
finest powder, with the strongest soap lye, pretty thick ; and in- 
stantly with a painter's brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. 
In two months* time wash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready 
a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water ; dip a brush 
in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as common cleaning. 
This will, by very; good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off 
the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end he 
effected. 

To Take Iron Stains out of Marble.— An eqiial quantify 
of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, 
shake it well ; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft 
linen till they disappear. 

To Preserve Irons frotti Bust.— Melt fresh mutton suet, 
smear over the iron with it while hot ; then dust well with un- 
slacked lime pounded, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared 
will keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except 
salad oil, there bein(r water in all other. 

Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when 
not used. 

Another way. — ^Beat into three pounds of unsalted hogs' lard, 
two drams of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolved ; then take 
as much black lead as will make it of the colour of broken steel. 
Din a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c., and the steel 
win never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease 



TO CLEAN TIV OOTERS AND PATENT FEWTEB POTS. 217 

must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before 
polishing^. 

To Take Bust out of Steel.— Cover the steel with sweet oil 
well nibbed on it, and in forty-ei^ht hours use unslacked lime 
finely powdered, and rub until all the rust disappears. 

To Clean the Baok of the Grate, the Inner Hearth, 
and the Fronts of Cast-iron Stoves.— Boil about a quarter 
of a pound of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer and a 
bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a 
painter's brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the 
soot and dust ; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful 
brightness. 

Another way to Clean Cast Iron, and Black Hearths. 
— Mix black load and whites of eggs well beaten together ; dip 
a painter's brush, and wet all over, then rub it bnght with a 
hard brush. 

To Take the Black off the Bright Bars of Polished 
Stoves in a few Minutes. — Eub them well with some 
of the following mixture on a bit of broadcloth ; when the dirt 
is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand- 
paper. 

The Mizture.^Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two 
quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonfuls, 
and mix to a consistence with emery, No. 3. 

To Clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pewter Porter 
Pots.— Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, 
the small being mixed with sand : mix a little of it powdered, with 
the least dro^ of sweet oil, and rub well and wipe clean : then dust 
some dry wmting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry 
leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be care- 
ful to guard against by wiping di^, and putting by the fire when 
they come from the parlour ; for if but once hung up without, the 
steam will rust the inside. 

To Prevent the Creaking of a Door.— Bub a bit of soap 
on the hinges. 

A Strong Paste for Paper.— To two large spoonfuls of fine 
fiour, put as much pounded resin as will lie on a shilling ; mix 
with as much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, and 
boil half an hour. JJet it be cold before it is used. 

Fine Blacking for Shoes.— Take four ounces of ivory 
black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table- spoonful of 
oil, and a pint of small beer ; mix them g^ually cold. 



218 Bins OF FAEE, FAMILT PI5I(EB§, ETC. 

BILLS OF FABE, FAMILY DINNEBS, &q. 

BILLS OF FAEE, ETC. 

List of va/rioua Articles in Season in different Months. 

JANITAEY. 

Poultify. — Game; Pheasants, partridges, Hares, Eal)bits, 
Woodcocks, Snipes, Tulrieys, Capons, Pullets, Fowls, Chickens, 
Tame Pigeons. • . 

Fish.— Carp, Tench, Perch, Lampreys, Eels, Crayfish, Cod, 
Soles, Flou nders, Plaice, Turbot, Thornback, Skate,* Sturgeon; 
Smelts, miitings. Lobster^, Crats, Prawni, Oysters. 

Vegetables.— -Ca|)bage, Savoys, Colewort, Sprouts, Brocoli, 
Leeks, Onions, Beet; Sorril, Chervil, Eridive, Spinach, Oelep^ 
Garlic, Scorzonera, Potatoes, Parsnips, Turnips, Brocoli," whit6 
and purple ; Shalots, Lettuces, Cresses, H'ustard, Bape, Salsafy, 
Herbs of all sorts, dnrand some green; Cucumbers, Asparagus 
and Mushrooms to be had, though not in sbason. • ' •• 

Fniit.—Apples, Pears, !Niits, Walnuts, Medlars, Grapes. 

FEBKTJAEY AND MAECH. 

Meat, Fowls, aud Game, as in January) with the addition of 
Ducklings and Chickens ; which last are to be bought in London 
most, if not all the year, biit very dear. 

Fish. — As the last two months, except that Cod is not thought 
so good from February tk> July, but may be* bought. 

V egetables. — The sam6 as the former months, wit)i the addi- 
tion of Kidney Bean^. - < 

Fruit.— Apples, Pears, Forced Strawberries. 

SECOND QUABTBB — APRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. 

Meat. — Beef, Mutton,' Veal, Laihb ; VenisOn in June. 

Poultry. — Pullets, Fowls, Chickens, Ducklingd, Pigeons, 
Btfbblts; Leverets. ■ ' . • > . ' , 

Fisli.--Carp, Tench, Sole, Smelts, Eels, Troufc Turbot, Lob- 
stAd," €hub, Salmon", Herrings, Cray ll»h, MickeJ*!, -Crabs, 
3E*r*wns, Shrimps; ' '^ * • •• . 

Vegetables.— As before, and in May early Potatoes, Peas, 
Radishes, Xidney Beans, Cftntots, Turnips, Early Cabbages, 
Cauliflowers, Asparagus, Artichoktes. All sorts of Salads foi'ced. 

Fruits. — In June — Strawberries, Cherries, Melons, Green 
Apricots, Currfents and Gooseberries, for Tartsw In July — Cher- 
ries, Strawberries, Pears, Melons, Gi)oseberries, Currants, Apri- 
cots, Grapes, Nectarines, and some Peaches ; but most of these 
are forced. 

THIBD QtTABTEB. — JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBEfi. 

Meat as before. 

Poidtry.— Pullets, Fowls, Chickens, Rabbits, Pigeons, Green 
Geese, Leverets, Turkey Poults. Two former months. Plovers, 
Wheatears; G^eseiii September* 



BILLS DF TXREt FA^dXT pT^^KERS, ETC. 2^0 

Piflh.— Cod, Haddock, Flounders, Plaice, Skates, Thornback. 
Mullets, Pike, Carp, Eels, Bhell-fish, except Oysters. Mackerel 
the first two months of the quarter, but act good in August. 

Partridge shooting begins the 1st of September ; what is there- 
fore used before is poached. 

Vegetables of all sorts. — Beans, ^eas, French Beans, &e. 

Fruit. — In July — Strawberries, Grooseberries, Pine Apples, 
Plums various. Cherries, Apricots, Easpberries, Melons, Currants, 
Damsons. 

In August and September— Peaches, Plums, Figs, Filberts, 
Mulberries, Cherries, Apples, Pears, Nectarines, Grapes. Latte? 
months, Pines, Melons, Strawberries. Medlars ana Quinces ifl 
the latter month. Morella Cherries^ Damsons, and varioua 
Plums. 

OCTOBEE. 

Meat as before and Doe Yenison. 

!|?0i2ltry and Game.— Domestic Fowls as in former quarter. 
Pheasants from the Ist of October. 'Partridges, Larks, Hares, 
Dotterels. At the end of the month Wild Ducks, Teal, Snipes, 
Widgeon, Grouse. ' * 

Fl8ti.^Dories, Smelts, pike, Peach, Halibut, frills, parp, 
Salmon Trout, Barbel, Gudgeons, Tench, Shell Fish. 

Vegetables. — ^As in January— -Frencjf Beans, last crops of 
Beans, &c. 

Fruit.— Peaches, Peas, Figs, B^llace, Grapes, Apples, Medlars, 
Damsons, Filberts, Walnuts, Nuts, Quinces, Services. 

KOYEMBEB. 

Meat.— Beef, Mutton, Vealj Pork, House Lamb, Doe Venison, 
Poultry and Game as in last month. 

Fish as the last month'. ■ ' • »• 

Vegetables*— Carrots, Turnips,' Parsnips, Potatoes, gkirrets, 
Scorzonera, Onion, Leeks, Stlalots, Cabbage, Savoys, Colewort, 
Spinach, Chard-Beets, CaraOons, Cresises, Endive, Celery, Let- 
tuces, Salad, Herbs, Pot-Herbs; 

Fruit.— Pears, Apples, Ntts, Walnuts, Bullace, Chesnuts, 
Medlars, Grapes. • • - 

' DECEMBBB. 

Meat.— Beef, Mutton, Veal, House Lamb, Pork, and Venison. 

Poultry and Game.— Geese; Turkeys, Pullets, Pigeons, 
Capons, Fowls, Chickenti, lEtabbits, Hares, Snipes, Woodcocks, 
Larks, Pheasants,' Partridges; j3ea-FoMF, GufTOk-'Fowls, Wild 
Ducks, Teal, Widgeon, Dotterels,' Bunt-Birds, Grouse. ' ' ' ' 

Fish.— Cod, Tiibot, Hallbull, Soles, Gurnets, Sturgeon, Carp, 
Gudgeons, Codlins, Eels, Dories, Shell Fish. 

Vegetables as tiL last nionth. Asx^ardgas forced, &c. 

Fruit as the last, except Biiflflce. ■ 



220 



FAMILT DINNERS. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 

FITE DISHES. 

Knuckle of Veal stewed with E.ice. 
Apple-sauce. Bread-and-Butter Pudding, 

Loin of Fork roasted. 



Potatoes. 



Peas Soup. 

{Bemove — Boiled Fotol.) 

Oyster Sauce. 

Apple-pie. 

Boasted Beef. 

Benton Sauce. 



Potatoes. 



Stewed Beef 
and Onions. 



Pigs' Souse fried in Batter. 

{JRemove — Yorhshire Pudding,) 

Peas Soup. 

Boast Yeal. 



Hessian Bagout. 

Hessian Soup, 

of the above. 

Leg of Lamb roasted. 



Beef Podovies. 
(Memove — Cv/rd Puddings,) 
Mashed Potatoes Mutton Broth, 

grilled. Neck of Mutton. 



Potatoes. 



Broiled Haddocks stuffed. 

Light Suet 

Dumplincp. 

Bound of Seef. 



Salad. 



Crimp Cod. 

Gooseberry 

Pudding. 

Leg of Mutton. 



Potatoes. 



Brocoli. 



Salads. 



Potatoes. 



Carrots 
and Turnips. 



Carrots 
and Greens. 



Jerusalem 
Artichokes. 



Potatoes. 



Spitchcock Eels. 
(Itefi^ove^Chine qf Lamb in Crepes,) 

Damson Pudding. Stewed Carrots. 

Cold Beef. 



Scrag of Veal smothered with Onions. 
(Remove — a Fruit Pie,) 
Mashed Potatoes rim- 
med with small slices Peas Soup, 
of Bacon. Hashed Hare. 



Brocoli. 



Tongue 
and BraiDS. 



FAMILY DINNEBS. 

Half Calfs Head, grUled. 
(Remove — Pie or Pudding,) 

Carrot Soap. 

Saddle of Mutton. 
Potatoes and Salad, at side table. 



221 



Bacon. 
Greens round. 



Boiled Neck of Mutton. 

Young Greens, Baked Plum Pudding. Turnips. 

Currie of dressed Meat, in Casserole of Bice. 



Carrots. 



Aitchbone of Beef. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Pulled Turkey or Fowl. 

Leg broiled. 



Greens. 



Potatoes. 



Boiled Fowls. 
{Remove — Snowballs,) 

Patties of Greens, and 

dressed Meat. mashed Turnips. 

Chine of Bacon Fork, boiled. 



Macaroni Pudding. 
Potatoes. 



SSYEN DISHES. 

Salmon and fried Smelts. 

Giblet Soup. 

Boast Beef. 



Stewed Celery. 
Veal Patties. 



Peas Pudding. 



Leg of Pork, boiled. 
Onion Soup. 



Bread Sauce. 



Turnips and Potatoes. Plum Padding, baked« 

Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. 



Small Meat 

Pie. 
Stewed Onions. 



Minced Veal, garnished with Med Crumbs. 

Hot Apple Pie 



in change for Soup. 
Saddle of Mutton. 



Potatoes in 
a form. 
Beans and Bacon. 



Carrots. 



POUE AND FIVE. 
(fIEST COUfiSE.) 

Soup. 
Bouillie. 



Mashed Turnips. 



J 



522 FAitltr DINNEKS. 

; (second couKsis.) 
■ . Fricassee of Sweetbreads. 

MuBuroomSj Btewed. Lemon Pudding. Peas. 



(first course.) 

Mackerel broiled, with Herbs. 

Bacon. Batter. Greens and Carrots. 

Boiled Chickens. 
(second course.) 

Beef Cecils. 
Salad. IBVuit Pie. Potatoes in a shape. 

Fore-quarter of Lamb, roasted. 



seyek akd seven. 

(first, course.) 

Broiled Sahnon. 
(Bemave — Chine qf Pork*) 
Stewed Spinach. . ^ Mince-Pies. 

Peas Soup. 
Oxford Dumplings. ... Peas Pudding. 

FiUet.of.Veal. 

(Potatoes (mdMaslted Turnips, on side table.) 

(second course.) 

Bagout of Palates. 
Orange Fool. Potted Beef. 

Curd Star with whip. 
CoUared Eel. Stewed Pears. 

Pheasant. 

(Bread 8auce, on side table.) 



(FiRSt course.) 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

(Bep^ove — Boiled Tv/rJcey.) 

Currie of Babbit* ... Patties. 

Giblet Soup. 
^^1 -D* Boiled Neck of Mutton, 

■^®1 ^^' 7 Bones. 

Small Leg of Pork. 

Four small dishes qf Vegetables may be put round the Soup, 

or two served at the side table. 

(second course.) 

Fricandeau. 
Orange Padding. Seraped Beef. 

Lemon Creams. 
Anchovy Toast. Tarts. 

Teal, or other wild Fowls. 



FAMILY DINNEES. 



223 



Brocoli. 
Cliickens^ boiled. 



SEVEN JLND NINE. 
(fIBSI COUBSE.) 

Pepper Pot. 
Hunter's Pudding. 



Saddle of Mutton. 
{Greens and Potatoes on the si^ 

(second covbse.) 

Boasted Partridges. 
Almond Cheesecakes. 

Celery in Easpberry 

White Sauce. Cream. 

Collared Seef. 

Hare. 



Tongue braised. 

CeleiT^dishesina 
P^^amid. 

table.) 



Potted Cheese. 
Cardoons, 
stewed. 
Lemon Pudding. 



Epergne. 



NINE AND SEVEN. 
(fIEST COUBSE.) 

Stewed Carp. 
Chickens. 

, Poarsletr Butter. 
Cod sounds, White. 

Currant Jelly. 
Stewed Pigeons. Green Peas Soup. 

(Bemove — Sauruih Venison,) 

Vegetables on side table* 

(second coubse.) 

Sweetbreads. 

Sauce Bobart. 

Trifle. 
Bread Sauce. 
Boasted Partridges^ 



Cheek of Bacon. 
Batter. 
Babbits and Onions. 
Ghravy. 
Cutlets Mamtenon. 



Mushrooms 
stewed. 

Currant Tart 
with Custard. 



Blancmange in 
small forms. 

Stewed 
Cucumbers. 



iriNB AND ELEVEN, AND A BBMOVB. 



Palates. 
French Pie. 
Veal. 
Olives. 



(fibst coubse.) 

Turbot. 

(Bemove— Chickens,) 

Liver and Lemon Sauce. 

Carrot Soup. 

Butter. 

Aitchbone of Beef. 
(Vegetables on side table.) 



Lamb's Fry. 
Tongue in Turnips. 
Babbit Brown in 
Fricassee. 



r. 



221 



Stewed Pippins. 

Scalloped 
Oysters. 
Cray-nsb in Jelly. 



f AHttY filKSrSBS. 
(SSCOKP C0UA6E.) 

Wild Fowl. 

French 

Beans. 

Solid Syllabub in a 

glass dish. 

Peas. 

Goose. 



Lobster in 

Fricassee Sauce. 

Stewed • 

Mushrooms. 

Apricot Tart* 

open coyer. 



KIKX 


DISflES, TWO BEMOTES, A17D ELETEN. 


Fish. 
{Bemove — Stewed Beef-) 
Oxford Dumplings. 

Small Ham. White Soup. 
Lamb Steaks 
round Potatoes. 

Pish. 

{Bemove — Saddle qf Mutton,) 


Fricandeau. 
Turkey, boiled. 
Oyster Sauce. 
Lobster Patties. 






(second coubse.) 




French Beans, 
in White Sauce. 

Open Tart. 

Lobster. 


• 


Sweetbreads, larded. 

Orange Jelly. Prawns. 

Raspberry Cream. Saco Pudding. 
Form. Stewed Mushrooms. 
Green Goose. 



l^bbit and Onions. 
Macaroni Pud- 



(fIEST COtTBSB.) 

Fish. 
(Bemove-^Sashed Cajf*s Mead,) 



amg, 
VealCu 



utlets. 



Cheesecakes. 
Peas, 

Macaroni. 



Sauce. 

Transparent 

Soup. 

Butter. 

Fish. 
{Bemove — Sirloin qf Be^,) 

(second coubse.) 

Chickens. 



Lamb's Fry. 

Beef Steak 

Pie. 

Stewed Pigeons 

with Cabroge. 



B-aspberry Cream. 

Trifle. 

Lemon Cream. 

Ducklings. 



Stewed Lobster. 
Asparagus. 
Apricot open Tart. 



VAinXT StlKlEBf • 



325 



Pigeons, slewed. 
ISmgae, 
Bole Mutton. 



SliBTXK Ain> NfllE. 
(nXST COVABE.) 

Fish. 
(jB^mot;^— ^ant OUized.) 

Saaee. Sweetbread, grilled. 

Gravy Soup. 



Tartlets. 
Collared Eel. 
Btewed 
Celery. 



TB.H li i ■ M 

iiQtver. 
FiUet of Veal. 

(SXCOITD COTTBSB.) 

Pheasant. 

Bread Sauce. 

Plateau. 

Ghravy and Jelly 

for Hare. 

Hare. 



Beef-Steak Fie. 
Boiled Chickens. 



ArtichokeSi 
Collared Beef* 
Stewed 
Pears* 



•^^•^'^•^mmmmmmir 



Otford Fuddmgs. 



fardPt 

Ham, 



braised. 
Lamb Steaks* 
Potatoes. 



French Beans* 
White Sauce. 
Open Tartlet. 
Anchovy Toasts. 



ELBVBN AKI> BIEVEN. 
(FIB8T GOFBSX.) 

Stewed Beef. 
White Soup. 

Fish. 
Saddle^of Mutt«D. 

(SEOOKD COUBSB.) 

Sweetbreads. 
Or«nge JeUy. 

Whipped Cream. 

Wine Roll* 

Green Goose* 



Veal Fricsadeact. 
Turkey. 
Oyster Sauce* 
Lobsteri 

Patties. 



PrawnSk 

Muffin Pudding. 
Stewed Mushrooms^ 



'^T-^r^^^^"""'^^ 



B£BTBN AND BIBTBK AVD TWO BBIffOVB^ 
(fIBST C0t7B$B.) 

Sahnon. 
(Memoii^^Srtehfi qf Be^ stewed, and hiffk 8<mce^ 

Cauliflower. 
Fit* Shrimp Sauce. Pigeon Pie. 

Stewed aiWnf Q^nn Stewed Peas 

Cucumbers. ^^^^^* ^^^P* Q.nd Lettuce. 

Potatoes. 
Cutlets k^^x.^,^ a-^-« Veal OUves 

Mainteiion. ^^^^^ ^^''^' raisedT 

Soles, fried. 
{Itemove'^Q,uartei^ Lamht roasted.) 

p 



226 



GCNEBAL BBHABKS ON DINNERS. 





(8SG0ND COXTBSB.) 






Young Peas. 




Coflfee Cream. 


Lobster. 


Bamakins. 


Raapberry Tart. 


Trifle. 
Grated Beef. 


Orange Tourte« 


Omelet. 




Boughed Jelly. 


• 


Ducks. 





Fruit Tart. 
Harico. 



LONG TABLE ONCE COTEBED. 

Fish. 
One Turkey or TwO Poults. Blslnomafige. 
Mock Turtle. 

Sweetbreads, larded. 



Mashed Turnips. Jerusalem Artichokes, 
Carrots thick round. fricasseed. 

Savoy Cake. 
Macaroni Pudding. 
. Trifle. 
French Pie. 



Cray Fish. 
Ham, braised. 



Casserole of Bice 

with Giblets. 
Sea Kale. 

Fricandeau. 

Jelly Form. 



Stewed Celery. 
Apple Pie and Custard. 

Bich White Soup. 



Stewed 
Spinach. 
Dried Salmon in 
papers. 
Chickens. 

Picked Crab. 

Young Sprouts. 

apfi 
O] 

Cheesecakes. 



Ox Rumps and 
Spanish OnionJs. 



Fish. 
(Itemove — Venison, or Loin qf Veal.) 



OENEBAIi BEMABES OlS BIKNEBS. 

things used at First Courses.—Various Souos. Fish- 
dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boiled Meats and 
Stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. Chawls of Bacon. Turkey 
and Fowls, chiefly boiledi Bum^ Sirloin, and Ribs of Beef 
roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other Roast Mutton. Roast Filletj 
Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Veal. Leg of Lamb, Loin, 
Fore-Quarter. Chine. Lamb *s-head and Mince. Mutton stuffed 
and roasted. Steaks, variously prepared. Ragouts and Fricas- 
sees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fish, 
and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg of Pork, Chine, 
Loin, Sparerib. Rabbits. Hare. Puddings, boiled and. baked. 
Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calfs Head different ways. 
Pig^s Feet and Ears different ways. In large dinners two Soups 
and two dishes of Fish. 



SUPPEBS. 227 

Things for Second Course.— lairds : and Game of all sorts. 
Shell Fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted Fish. Pickled 
ditto. Potted Birds. Bibs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. Yege- 
tables. stewed or in sauce. French Beans. Peas. Asparagus. 
Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled Oj'sters. Spinach, and -firti- 
ohoke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Kale. Fruit Tarts. Pre- 
served-Fruit Tourtes. Pippins stewed. Cheese-cakes, various 
Borts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given 
from page 139 to 164, with directions for preparing them, such as 
Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince 
pies, &c. Omelet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, stewed or 
pickled. 

Having thus named the sort of things used for the two courses, 
the reader will think of many others. For removes of Soup and 
Fish one or two joints of Meat or Fowl are served ; and for one 
small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part. 
Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c., are twice dressed, they add to 
the appearance of the table the first time ; three sweet things may 
jform the second appearance without greater expense. 

The Bills of Fare which have been given from page 218 to 219, 
may be modified at discretion. 

In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up with the vege- 
tables or sauces proper to it, and this in succession hot and hot. 
In others, a course of Soups and Fish; then Meats and boiled 
Fowls, Turkey, &c. Made Dishes and Game follow ; and, lastly. 
Sweet Dishes ; but these are not the common modes. 

It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do not think 
of sending up such articles as are in the house, unless ordered ; 
though by so doing, the addition of a collared or pickled thing, 
some Fritters, fried Patties, or quick-made Dumphngs, woiid be 
useful when there happened to be accidental visitors ; and at all 
times it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than 
let things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is more 
increased than can be easily imagined. V egetables are put on the 
side-table at large dinners, as likewise sauces, and servants bring 
them round : but some inconveniences attend this plan ; and when 
there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned ; besides that, by 
awkardness, the clothes of the company ma^ be spoiled. If the 
table is of a due size, the articles alludea to will not fill it too much. 

SUPPEBS. 

Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine very late. 
"When required, the top and bottom, or either, may be Game. 
.Fowls. Kabbit. BoileaFish, such as Soles, Mackerel. Oysters, 
stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or Jerusalem 
Artichokes, in white Sauce. Brocoli with Eggs. Stewed Spinach 
and ditto. Sweetbreads. Small Birds. Mushrooms. Potatoes. 
Scallop, &c. Cutlets. Hoaat Onions. Salmagundy. Buttered 
Eggs, on Toast. Cold Neat's Tongue. Ham. Co'.lared tilings. 
Hunter's Beef sliced: Rusks buttered with Anchovies on. Grated 
Hung beef with Butter, ^-ith or without Rusks. Grated Cheese 

p 2 



23ff SI7PVBB0. 

roimd, And Butter, dreMed in the middle of a plate. Badishes 
ditto. Custaurdt in ^laBses with Sippetfl, Oysters, cold or pickled. 
Potted Meats. Fish. Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake, 
sUoed. Pies of Birds or Froit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns, 
Cray-fish. Any of the list of sweet things* Fruits. A Sandwich 
set with any of the above articles, placed a little distaoce from 
each other on the table, looks well without the tray, if preferred. 
The lighter the things, the better they appear, and glass inter- 
mixed has the best ^eot. Jellies, different coloured things, and 
flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An elegant supper may 
be served at a small expense by these who know how to make 
trifles that are in the house form the greatest part of the meal. 

Nate. — Any of the following things maj be seryed as a relish, with the 
Cheese, after dinner. Baked or pickled Fish, done high. Dutch pickled 
Herring. Bardines, which eat like Anchoyy, Imt are larger. Anchovies. 
Potted Char. Ditto Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and 
Sippets of Toast. Salad, Badishes. Freneh Pie. Cold Batter. Potted 
Cheese. Anchovy Toasti ^. Beftifo scrviDg a Dutch Heniog. it is nsnal 
to cat to the bones witheii^ dividing, at the ^tsaoa of two iocbes firom 
head to tail. 



INDEX. 



AcfOOViTTS, necesflltv of keepinn^, 6 

Adds, Btalns caused by, 211 

Aitch-bone of beef, directiona for earring, 
14 

Ale, varloae reoeiptfl fbr browiny, 1T9, 180 1 
refining of; 180 

Almond cbeeseoakci, 127, 128 

Almond cnstardfl, 120 

Almond cream, 14A 

Almond puddings, different reoelpts ibr, 
109 

Amber pndding, reeelpt fbr, 110 

American flour, 176 

Anchovies, directions for choosing, 100; 
essence of, ib. ; how to keep when the 
liauor dries, ib, 

Anciiovy toast, 153 

Apple and rice, souffle o^ 130 

Apple dumplings, 117 

Apple fool, 143 

Applojelly, to preserve at table, 147: for 
preserving apricots, &c., 160 

Apple marmalade, 150 

Apple pies, directions for making, 121 

Apple padding, baked, receipt for, 110 

Apple puflb, 12-1 

Apple sauce, for goose, Ac., 06 

Apple trifle, 142 

Apple water, fbr the sick, 204 

Apples, red, in jelly, 160; dried, {(. 

Apricot cheese, 166 

Apricot pudding, receipt for, 115 

Apricots, various ways of preparing and 
preserving, 156, 156 

April, list of articles in season during the 
month of, 218 

Arrow-root jelly, for the sick, 109 

Artichoke bottoms, drossuig o^ 130} pre- 
servation of, 135 

Artichokes, dressbigof, 130; Jerusalem,!}. 

Articles for domestic use, 0, 10; inven- 
tories to be kept, 10 

Asses' millL Ibr the sick, 202; artificial 
preparations ot 203 

Au-Choux, or royal paste. 128 

August, list of articles in season during 
the month of, 218, 219 

Bacoit, directions for ciMosing, 36 ; pre- 
paration of, 64; manner of curing 
WUtehire bacon, 46. 

Barberries, preparations ot, for tartlets| 
164; in bunches, ib. 

Barberry drops, 163 

Barley gruel, for the sick, 203 

Barley water, for the sick, 204 

ISatter puddings, receipts for, 112 



Bean pudding, green, receipt for, 116 

Beans, dressing of, 181 

Bechamel, or white sauoe^ dlreiJtiona for 
maklng,'93 

Beef, directions fbr earring the dllfofent 
Joints of; 14 16 ! directions for eboosing, 
34; roasthig ol; 87; keeping and saR- 
inff of, 40, 41 i Dutch way of salting, 40 { 
palates of. 45 ; cakes for a side-dish, ib. ; 
potting OL ib. ; dressing a cold sirloin 
0^ ib,; mcaeeee oi; ib.; dressing cold 
beef underdone, 4JL 46; mindng and 
basting of. 46 ;^*)a-vfngrette,»6.: round 
of, ib.i roiled that equals ham, io. ; how 
to make a pasty o( to resemble venieon, 
126 : broth of, for the sick. 198 

Beef a*la-mode, 41: fHcanoean of, 42; 
stewing a rump or, ib. ; en miroton, 43 ; 
stewing brisket ot ib. ; how to press, 
td. ! to make htmter's beet ib. ; an ex- 
cellent mode of dressing, ib. ; collaring 
of. 44 ; steaks of, ib. ; collop, ib. 

Beef-heart, preparations of, 43 

Beef-olives, dressing of, 46 

Beef-steak pie, receipt for, 104 

Beef-steak puddings, receipt for, 114 

Beef-steaks, preparation of, 44; with 
oyster since, ib,i StafTordahire, i&.: 
Italian, ib. 

Beef-tea, for the siek, 199 

Beet-roots, dressing of, 134; preserration 
of, 136 

Beer, various receipts for brewing, 179, 
180; reflning of, 180 

Benton sauce, for roast beet 05 

Benton tea-cakes, different kbids of, 174 

Bills of fiure for tne different months, 218 
ei »«q. 

Birds, small, cooking of, 80j potting o( ib. 

Biscuit-cake, making ol 174 

Biscuits, hard, 178; plam and crisp ones, 
179 

Black paddings, dtreotfons for making, 61, 
62 

Black-caps, preparation ot. 148 

Blacking for shoes, receipt for, 217 

Blade-bone of pork, cooking of the, 57 

Blanc-mange, receipt for, 142 

Blankets, preseivanon of; 11 

Blue, dying the colour of, 212 

Boards, how to give a beautifbl appear- 
ance to, 215; extracting oil fhMn, 216 

Bookings, receipt for. 119 

Boerhaave's sweet butter-milk for the liok 
204 

Brandy cream, 143 

Brandy padding, receipt for, 1|0 



230 



INDEX. 



Brawn, directions for choosing, 35 

Brawn, mock, directions for dressing, 61 ; 
souse for. ib. 

Bread, for domestic use, 11; on the mak- 
ing and bakmg of^ 176 ; various kinds 
of 177: how to discover adulteration in, 
ib. 

Bread-and-butter pudding, receipt for, 109 

Bread cake, a common one, 172 

Bread puddings, receipts for, 110, 111 

Bread sauce, receipt for, 06 

Breast of veal, directions for carving, 15 

Brentford rolls, 178 

Brewing of ale and wines, and various re- 
ceipts for, 179 et »eq. 

Brisket of beeC stewing of, 43 

Broooli, dressing of, 131 

Broths, different kinds of, for the sick, 
197—0 

Brown-bread ice, 140 

Browning, to colour and flavour made 
dishes, 102 

Bubble and squeak, dressing of, 49 

Bims, plain ones, 175; rice ones, ib. 

Burnt cream, 143 

Butter, dari^ingof for potted things, 80 ; 
to serve as a little dish, 152 ; observa- 
tions respecting, 190; making or, ib, 
preserving of, 191; keeping of, 192; 
now to choose at market, io. 

Buttermilk, valuable uses of, 192; for 
the sick, 204 

Buttermilk pudding, receipt for, 116 

Buttock of bee^ directions for carving, 15 

Cabbaob, red, different ways of stewing, 
132; pickling of, 138 

Cakes, colourings for staining, 149 : on the 
making and baking of, 160 ; various re- 
ceipts for, 170 et »eq. ; icing for, 170 

Cakes, Yorkshire, 178 

Calfs feet Jelly, 146,147 

Calfs head, directions for carving, 15; 
boiling of, 53, 54 ; hashing, Mcassceing, 
or collaring of, 54 

CalTs-head pie, receipt for, 104 

Calfs liver, different preparations of, 56 

Calico fbmiture, directions for cleaning,213 

Calves' feet, broth of, for the sick, 198 

Camp vinegar, receipt for, 98 

Candles for domestic use, 10 

Caper sauce, excellent substitute for, 97 

Capers, nasturtiums for, 99; keeping of, 
139 

Carmel cover for sweetmeats, 146 

Corp, directions for choosing, 21; boiled, 
stewedf and baked, preparation o^ 27 ; 
snuco for, 94 

Carpets, dusting of, 215 ; cleaning of old 
ones, ib. 

Carrier sauce for mutton, 96 

Carroleofrice, 151 

Carrot pudding, receipt for, 115 

Carrot soup, durections for making, 87 

Carrots, boiling and stewing of, 133 ; pre- 
servation of, 135 

Canringi utility o^5; directions for.lS— 20 



Casserol, edging for a cunrie^ 103 

Cast iron, how to clean, 217 

Caudle, different preparations of, for the 

sick and lying-in, 201, 207 
Cauliflowers, boiling of, 131; in wlilto 

sauce, ib. ; with parmcsan, ib, 
Cecils, dressing of, 40 
Celery, stewing of, 131 
Chalot sauce, receipt for, 95 
Chantilly cake, 142 

Chapped hands and lips, pastes for, 209 
Chardoons, dressing of, 131 
Charity, recommenoed, 8 
Charlotte pudding, 117 
Cheese, potted, roasted, and melted, 153 ; 

toasted, 153 ; damson and muscle plum, 

162; observations respecting, 1S7; 

making of, 188— 190; preserving cf, lau 
Cheese puffs, 124 
Cheese-cakes, light paste for, 123; dir;?c- 

tions for making, 126; the various ki;>ds 

of lemon, orange, potato, almond, £x'., 

127, 128 
Cherries, how to dry them with sugar, 15S ; 

without sugar, 159; the best way uf 

drying, ib.; in brandy, ib.; how to 

keep, 165 
Cherry jam, 159 

Chicken broth, for the sick, 193 
Chicken curric, preparation of, 75, 76 
Chicken panada, for the sick, 200 
Chicken pie, receipt for, 106 ; fticas^^co of, 

75 ; how to pull, ib. ; braising of, 7G ; 

fattening of, 194 
Chimney-pieces, stone, how to blacken the 

fironts of, 216 
China, broken, how to cement, 210 
China Chilo, receipt for, 68 
China oranjre juice, 167 
Chocolate, &c., preparation of, 12, 203 
Chocolate cream, 145 
Cider, refining of, 180 
Clary wine, makin? of, 183 
Cleaning of furniture, plate, gliding, 

wainscoting, &0,, 213, 214; hearths, 

stones, &c., 217 
Clouted cream, 145 
Coals, &c., use of, 12 
Cockle ketchup, preparation o^ 139 
Cocoa, patent, 202 
Cod, choosing of, 21; stnflSng for, 29; 

preparing and cooking of, 25, 26; 

preparation of crimp cocC 26; ourrie of, 

ib. ; salted, ib. ; pie, receipt for, 103 
Cod sound ragout, preparation or, 26 
Cod sounds, boiled, 26; to look like 

chickens, ib. 
Cod's head, directions for carving, 14 
Cod's head and shoulders, 25 
Codlin cream, 145 
Codlin tart, 123 
Codlins, how to scald, 148 ; how to keep, 

165 
Coffee, &c., preparation of, 12 ; making o£ 

201, 202 
Coffee cream, 144 
Coffee miltc, preparation of, 202 



Collc^ puddlugr< 111 
Colouriagfl to BtaiujflUlei, &c-, 149 
Cook, gttim*! Unti lo the. 12. 13 
CDiikei7, Ibr the rick. 107 tl tnj.-.hl 

CopiKi uMiuaii. me oT, 13 
Coogh. fine dnueht Ibr 1, !01 
Cuamri. nccewon of, il &mLhr dlnimi, 
MCWi BMiMftl ' 



INDEX. 

DuiuoD dumpllngfl, IIT 

UauDADiifV how to keep. lOG; Ibr yi 

pin, lee, 167 
DarirordfOvilj, ie2.ia 




CnntxRTjjellj. ur 
'^^wflah loup, cJiTcctl« 
T-aih,<nIcUT,33 
■kiQgordoi>n,boi 



ditectloiu ftir iniking, M 

preTent, 217 

lei'i bow tc 
England, fi.j 
kM^ng of, IM I qprnp at, it. 
■ana cbHK, m^bii ol, leo, 190 
■miBM. dlDbwnt pnpnUoDi oT, U3-^ 
IckMi bow to deatiOT, 113 
■Imp tutfl, pnpantJoni ofl S7 
wtJ^ br oiut«rd( or friUU, IS) ; eioel- 
!■, Ifr- i Ibr onoge ' 



Lnnuniisr tinegir, lOMipt Tor. M 
Cuflonben, ilewing or. 130 ^ plckUnj; 

jamg oau, 197 
CncumEen SDd onloni allsed, plckUog of, 

137 
CaUii, or brown BTATj, dJnal[oni Ibi mik' 

Curtf'puddlDga, neelgit toe, 116 

Catd itar. prepAntLoiu of, 141 

emit, prepatitlDni of. HI 

Cordi Biid wbej. GaUlno. prepuaUoa of, 



Dtjallj, IS 



ntpio, iMkliigof, IZI, 1X2 



Currnnt wine, making of, 181 ; TC17 Duo 
block oungnt, 181 

CuR[e or cod, prcpuMlon of, itt 1 of lob- 

Coelnid. a rroth to uC on, 140 
Ctutard pudding, receipt for, IIG 
CUBCtnli, idled cruBti for. 1!0 ; the 

Cjdcr. (See CiJir.} 

T, dirediou furmHiiglng, ISBtli 



Damson chcoe, 182 






Deeda, old, making n Honor to waih, 113 
DlonM preparation of. 1 UUa or fue 
for, nith the ditTercnt Hinnee, 220 (Jof .1 




I>ucka.dll 
tloDH for roaatlng, boUlng, il 
aod btaUiig. T61 unoelbT.M! n 

' -it. In the poultry jarfl. IB" 

Ciamberlajid'i Ridding, IJ 
Uumplliwi. larlDiu reoeipl* Ibr. ' 
Dun-bird!, oookhig of 81 
Dutch poddlsgi, rcoelpta Ibr, 11 
Dutch lauee fur meat or flih. Be 
Djeliig. tbe linlngi of [nrultniB, tc., 212 



Sfii.» 



■Ick.suo 
El„ , B .., .83 

Engllah bamboo, prewing and pretcrvUii 

of 136 
£>e'i paddlDga, rei.'elpt Ibr. Ill 

FutiLiu. mlanllineaoi obaemUoul Hd 

dtewed to,3tiitq. 
Famllj dlunen. bllli of Ikn Ibr, with th< 



Pan, bllli of, for the dliTcrent n 
Festtonorponitrj, IBS 
FebniaiT, llit of xllclea In Ml 



]nUu,:i$ 



at for oartlDg, IS 
[mIde the niUn 
,t boiling. S3, i- 

bi making, 83 



n% 



INOSX. 



Fisli-pie, lanoe for, M} noetot te; 103 

FisMMioi^ ▼adoaB reoeipto iur, M, 97 

I^h-8oap6, stock fiff brown or white, 90 ; 
forcemeat for, 101 

Flaimeli, liow to make tkem keqp ih^ 
oirfour, and not shrink, 212 

Flat cakes for keeping, 171 

Floaiiiw island, prepuration o^ 140 

Floor-olotkfl, eboioe and preservation e^ 
216; cleaning oC •&. 

Floors, dasting of, 215 

Flomidors, choosing oi, 22 j stewing o^ SI 

Ftonr, American, 1 70 

Flonr-oaudle, for the sick, 201 

Flummery, prepanutions oC y^ 141 

Foraenaeat, Har forcing foww or meat, 100 j 
ingredlenta o^ 101} Car cold satraury 
pies, 101; fu kares, pikea, soles, Ao^ 
•£.; for fiah eoaps^ Ae.f ^.i as fer 
turUctft. 

Fore-handof peiMhreelieM^ftMr oookiiig,67 

Fowk, direetioae for earriag, 18; diieo- 
tkns for eheeeing; 70; boiling ot, 72; 
trussing ot for roaating, 73; boiling 
with rice, 74 ; roasting wmL betting oC il>4 

- a nioe way to dress one for a anall dish, 
•£.; forcing, 76 ; bndainff ot, ib.i blanebp 
ing o^ 93 J gravy for, waen there is no 
meat to mwe it of; 92 ; sanee for, 991, 
M; management o^ in the poultxy- 
yard, 192 et teq, 

French bean^ dresstag ol^ 131 

French bread, 177 

French pie, reecipt for, 107 

FkendiNlklTS 

Frendi salad, dressing oi; 133 

Fricassee of cold roast bee^ 46 

Fricassee of chickens, 76 

Fricassee of fowls, Ac. white smee for, 
93 

Fricasseed lambefeonM and sweetfaread, 
prnaratkm oC 70 

Frittexe, the difooit kinds oC 118, 119 

Fruit, sealding oi; 12 ; prenatntton o^ for 
children, 140; blacnit <d; 102; how to 
preaerre, for tarts, 167 s stains, eanaed 
by, 211; different kmds in season 
during eadi month of the year, 218, 219 ; 
how to green them for preserving or 
plddiiig, 164; how to oandv thcai, a. 

Furniture, &c., dyeing the Bmngs o( 212; 
dyeing gWves, ib. 

Furs, how to preserve ttcm moihs^ 212 

Oaks, direefione in the choice el*, 70 ; di- 
rections for dressing, 71, 72; different 
hinds in season dunng each meoth of 
the year, 218, 219 
Geese, numMpemettt of, 196; direetioae for 

ehoomng. 71 
George pudding, reeefpt for, 118 
German pnddiiigB, reoript ibr, 110 
Glblet-pie, reoefpC for, 106 
Giblet-soop, dfreetions for making, 85 
Giblets, dhrceUons for stewing, 78 
Gilding, how to ineserve and elean, n4 
Ginger drops, a good itomadiie^ 164 



Ginger-win^ making o( 182 
Gingerbread, various reoe^ for niaking, 

176 
Gloucester ieQy, for the ASs^ 199 
Gloves, dveug of, 212 
Goldcn-plppins, stewed, 148 
Goose, directions for carving, 17 ; roasting 

of, 76; apple-eaoce for, 96 
Goo«eberrie& how to keen, 165, 166 
Gooseberry-fool, receipt for, 142 
Goeseberry-hops, 161 
Gooseberry-jam, 160, 161 
Gooseberry-padding, 116 
Gooseberry-trifle, 142 
Gooseberry-vin^[;ar, 98 
Orate, oleaning the back of thi^ 217 
Gravies, general directions for making, 83 ; 

colouring for, 84; a clear brown stoek 

for, ib, ; different kinds of, 91-03 
Qrainr,drearinganddeaDlnffoC91; witik* 

out meat, 02 ; a rich one, m. ; for a fow), 

ib. ; to make mntton eat like vnniBen> 

ib. ; strong fish grairy, 93 
Gravy sonp^ cttreetions Uag niaking, 87 
Oreen«gooee pie^ receipt for, 106 
Greeni>eas, how to keep them, 129, 130; 

boiling and etewing 0(130 
Green sauce^ for green geese, 96 
Greengages, bow to preserve^ 161 
Qraaad-riee asBk, ibr the aiek, 202 
Ground-rice padding, 117 
Grouse, diivctkma for oeoUBg, 81 
Qmei, preparations of, for the aid^ 209 
Onrtgeons, cfaooahy o( 22 
Guinearfowl, dresauig o^ 81 
Guinea iMoa^nianagaineBt of; 190 



Hasdoox, preparation of, 29; atofBng 

for, a. 
Haffgett's economical bread, 177 
Haw, reoelpt fov preventing its fidUng«ff, 

210 
Ham, directions Ibr catving,17| boiling 

of, 37 
Ham-sauce, recent for, 96 



HaoM, dircetioDs for choestog, 85} dif- 

j, 62, «S ; how to 

dress them, 64 



forent ways of curing. 



Hare, directions for carving, 18 

Hare pie, receipt for, 107 

Hare soap, directiens for making, 88 

Hares, directions fbr chooslog, 71 ; keep- 
ing and paunching of, 81; roaeting 
of, 82 ; jugging, broiUng, hashhig, and 

potthigoC«&* 
Hartshorn jeUy. 147 
Hatching of chickens, 193, 194 
Haunch of mutton, cUreetioai fbr carving, 

17 
Hay, green, how to preserve it f^wm firing. 

213 
Hearth, deaning the, 217 ; how to blaeken 

the, 217 
Hen-house, shonld be eomino^Hova. 

193 
Hen-tuke^, Ai#elloaa for choosing. 



nrDSx. 



218 



Hatti, Mttinff and sMiiifliaMni •( lOMMi 
flMariBffoi; lM)toiiMketlMiiili|f,». 
Herb-pie, reodpt tor, 107 
Herbs for domestic use, 11; firing oil 194 
Hcningfl, choosing of, 21 ) siBonng oi, 81 j 



frying, broiling, and petiingy ib.; 
ing red herrings, ia.; bauig 
porting ot, t^. 



ci, 88} 



Hessian soap and ragont, directions tn 

making, 88 
Hog-Aeab, rarlooi modea of eooUBg, 18^ 

67 
Hog's cheeks, drying of, 80 
Hog's ears, fordng of, 80 
Hog's head, how to Atka cioelleBt iaeai 

Hog*s lard, preparation of, 81 

Hog's puddings, white, directions for 

making, 03 
HcMf water, preparation o( 810 
Hotch-potch, bow to prepare aqi eiceHent 

one, 68 
Hongnry water, reoelpt for, 800 
Hunter's beef, making of, 49 
Himter*8 podding, receipt far, 114 

I ox, preparattoa of, for idng, 148 

Ice creams, 149 
Ice waters, 140 
Ices, difforent kinds ol^ 148; eolonrfaigs 

for staining, ib. 
Icing for tarts, 120 ; for cakes, 170 
Imperials, making of 184 
Indian pickle, the fflfllBrent waye of pre- 
paring and preeenring 1^ 1811^ 138 
Ink, receipt for making, 210; how to take 

it out of mahogany, 216 
Insects, how to prescvve a gnnuttj from. 

213 
Inventory of domestie artloAes to be kept* 

10 
IronmoTilds, directions for taking them 

oatofHnen, 211 
Irons, how to preserre them ftom nut, 

218 

Jams, different kinds of 180; gooseberry, 

160, 181: raspberry. i&. 
January, list of artlcus la season during 

the month o( 218 
Jaune-mange, receipt tttt, 143 
Jellies, different preparations of^ 146, 147 s 

colourings ibr staining. 140; dilfereni 

klndao^Tor the sick, IW 
Jelly, for patting over cod pies, 08; to 

cover ooa fish, ib»} ciMrrant» 168; apple, 

160 ; red apple, ib. 
Jenwalen articlu>kes, dressing of, 130. 
July, list of articles in season daring the 

month'offt 81& 219 
June, list of articles In season during the 

month 0^ 818 

Kmwvp, the different kliida oi^ 188, 

139 
Kidney puddiiw^ raeeipt for, IM 
Kidneys, drefwwg of, 66, 68 



IiAica» direetiona for earring tha foira 
quarter, 16 1 direattoHS for cbooring, 88 ; 
boiling 0^ 37; diflbrent modes of cook- 
ing, &Sf 60; fore quarter, breast, and 
shonldcr. 89; steaks and cutlets of, 
ib.i head and hinge, 16.; a Tery nice 
dish Arom the neck, 70 

Lamb pie, receipt for. 106 

Lamb's ttf, preparanon oi^ 80 

Lamb's sweetbreads, W 

Lamb-stones, flricaasee of, 70 

Lamprey, stewinff of, 81 

Larka, cooking ol^ 80 

LaTcnder water, preparatlcn oi^ 810 

Layer, drHalng <^84 

LeA pie, receipt for, 106 

Leg ormntton, direetfons for carving, 16 

Lemon cheese-cakes, 127 

Lemon cream, diflereirt preparations ct. 
144 

Lemon enstards, 126 

Lemon drops, 188 

Lemon honeycomb, 160 

Lemon Juice, how to keep^ 167 

Lemon marmalade, 166 

Lemon mfiice pies, 122 

Lemon peel, preservation of, 188 

Lemon picldes, preservation o^ 136 

Lemon pudding, receipt for, 109 

Lemon puiVb, 124 

Lemon sauce, receipt for. 06 

Lemon water, for the sicx, 204 

Lemon whcnr, for the sick, 204 

Lemon white sauce for b<med fowla, 94 

Lemonade, receipt for making dlffbtent 
khids ol, 168 ; preparation of, for the 
sick, 206 

Lemons, use oi^ 12; pickled, 187; pre- 
serving in jelly, 168 ; for paddings, ib. 

Lent potatoes, preparation of, 140 

Light puffii, 124 

Linen, various receipts for taking stains 
out of, 211 

Liquors, cooling of, 12 

Liver, difforent preparations ol^ 66 

Liver sauce, receipt for, 96 

Lobster patties, 124 

Lobster pie, receipt for, 108 

Lobster salads, dressing of, 138 

Lobster sauce, receipts for, 97, 98 

Lobster soap, directions for making, 00 

Lobsters, choosing of, 22 ; potting ofl 32 ; 
stewing, buttenng, and roasting of, ib. ; 
eurrieotSS 

Looking-glaesea, directions for cleaning, 
904 

Maoaboitx, dressed sweet, 140; various 

preparations of, 161 
Macaroni pudding, receipt for, 116 
Macaroni sonp, making oC 86 
Macaroons, mMing 0^174 
Mackerel, chooahag el; 21; different pre- 

parationa of; 28; pickled, ti.; potUng 

o£32 
Made dishes, browning to colovr tad 

flavour, 108 



2S4 



IK^DEX. 



Mihoguiy, bow to f^w a fine colour to, 
214; how to take ink out of, 215 

Maids, preparation of^ 27 

Malt, extract of, for coughs, 180 

Marble, how to take atams out of, 216 

March, list of articles in aeasou during the 
month of, 218 

March's "FamilYBook-keeper,"utiUtyof.7 

Marmalade, different kinds of, 136; trans- 
parent, ib. i apple, 159 ; quince, 162 

Married life, dnties of, 4 

Marrow bones, dressing of, 48 

May, list of articles in season during the 
month of, 218 

Meals, articles' in preparation for, 10 

Meat, directions for choosing the various 
kinds o^ 3^ 35; purchasing, keeping, 
and dressing oL 86 — 38; boiling and 
roasting ot, 37 ; how to keep it hot, 38 ; 
the different kinds in season diuring 
each month of the year, 218, 219 

Meat pies, raised crust for, 108 

Melon mangoes, preparing and preserving 
of, 136 

Melted butter, directions for making, 98 

Mildew, directions for removing, 212 

Milk, different preparations for Uie sick, 
202 

Milk porridge, preparation of, for the sick, 
202; French, t&. 

Milk punch, making of, 185 

Millet pudding, receipt for, 116 

Mince pies, directions for making, 121, 122 

Mistress of a family, directions for her 
use, 3 et $eq. 

Mock brawn, directions for dressing, 61 

Mock turtle, various preparations of, 55 

Moor game, potting of, 80 

Morels, preparation of, 84 ; preservation 
of, 185 

Mortar, preparation of, for outside plaster- 
ing, 211 

Mumns, making of, 178 

Mulled wine, for the sick, 201 

Mullet; red, preparation of, 28 

Mullets, choosing of, 22 

Muscle-plum cheese, 162 

Mushroom ketchup, different preparations 
of, 138, 139 

Mushroom sauce, for fowls or rabbits, 94 

Mushrooms, dryins of, 99; powder of, ib. ; 
directions for choosing, 132; stewing 
of, t&.; pickling of, 138 

Mustard, directions for making, 99 

Mutton, directions for carving the diffe- 
rent joints, 15,16, 17; directions for 
choosing, 35 ; observations on keeping 
and dressing, 61, 63; leg, neck, and 
shoulder, 65; haunch of, %b.; roasting 
saddle of, ib.i fillet of braised, 66; 
harricouf, ibr, how to hash, ib. ; boiling 
a shoulder o^ with oysters, 66 ; breast 
and loin of, ib.; kebobbed, 68; gravy 
to make it eat like venison, 92; currie 
Banco for, 96 ; how to make a pasty of, 
to resemble venison, 125 ; broth oC for 
the sick, 193 



Mation broth, Scotch, 84 

Mutton collops, directions for cooking, 67 

Mutton cutlet^ cooked in the Portuguese 

way, 67 
Mutton ham, directions for cooking, 67 
Mutton pie, receipt for, 105 
Mutton puddings, receipts for, 114 
Mutton rumps and kidneys, dressing ot, 

68 
Mutton sausages, preparation ot, 67 
Mutton steaks, differoit ways of oooking,67 

Nastvbtiviu, for capers, 99 
Nelson puddings, receipts for. 111 
Norfolk punch, making o^ 186 
November, list of uiides in season during 
the month of, 219 

Oatkbal pudding, receipt for, 110 
October, list of artides m season dunng 

the month of, 219 
Olives, idckled, 137 
Omelets, making of, 161, 162 
Onion sauce, receipt for, 96 
Onion soup, directions for making, 88 
Onions, stewing of, 130; roasting of, 131 ; 

preservation of in store, 135 ; pickled, 

137 
Orange biscuits, 167 
Orange butter, 148 
Orange cheesecakes, 127 
Orange chips, 157 
Orange cream, 146 
Orange-flower cakes, 167 
Orange fool, 143 
Orange jelly, 147 
Orange marmalade, 166 
Orange puddings, receipt for, 109 
Orange tart, 122, 123 
Orange wine, making of; 182 
Orangeade, for the sick, 205 
Oranges, different preparations of, 156— 8; 

cutting of, 156, 157 ; preserving in jelly, 

168; ror puddings, t5. 
Orgeat, receipts for, 168; preparations of, 

lor the sick, 205 
Ortolans, roasting of^ 81 
Ox-cheek, stewing of, 48 : dressing of, ib. 
Ox-feet, various modes of dressing, 43 
Ox-rump soup, directions for making, 89 
Oxford dumplings, receipt for, 117 
Oyster patties, 34^ 128 
Oyster sauce, receipt for 97 
Oyster soup, directions for making, 91 
Oysters, choosing of, 22; how to teed, 33 ; 

how to stew, boil, scallop, or flj, ib. ; 

oyster loave^ i6.; how to pickle, ib. 

Paiitt, directions for cleaning, 214 
Paste for paper, directions for making, 217 
Panada, diflerent kinds prepared for the 

siok, 199, 200 
Pancakes, the different kinds of, 118 
Paper, for domestic use, 11 
Paper hangings, directions for cleoaing, 

214 

Parsley pie^ receipt for, 107 



INDEX. 



234 



Ptfsley iiaaoe, how to make, when o 
parsley leaves are to be had, 05 

Parsnips, maRhing of, 133 ; fricassee of, ib. j 
preservation ol^ 135 

Partridge pie, receipt for, 107 

Partridge soap, directions for makioff, 85 

Purti'idges, directions for carving,19; direc- 
tions for choosing, 71: directions for 
cooking, 80 ; potting of,tb. ; sauce for, 94 

PQate» different kinds o^ for pastry, 119, 
120, 122; for tarts and cheesecakes, 122 ; 
royal, 128; for chapped hands, 209 

Pastrv, 102; general erections for making, 
anu various receipts for, 119 0^ $eq.; 
observations on, 121; on using pre- 
served fVuits in, ib. ; how to prepare 
venison for, 126 ; the different kinds of, 
125, 126 

Patterns, preparation of black paper for 
drawing, 210 

Patties, the various kinds of— fVied, oyster, 
lobster, beef, veal, turkey, sweet ones, 
&c., 123, 124; resembling mince pies, 
121 

Pea-fowls, dressing of, 81 ; management 
of. 196 

Pears for domestic nse, 11; ateyred or 
baked, 149; jargonel, how to preserve, 
160 

Peas, green, preserving and dressing of, 
129, 130 

Peas, old, stewing of, 130 

Peas soup, old and green, directions for 
making, 86 

Pepper, kitchen, preparation of, 99 

Pepper-pot, receipts for, 86, 153 

Peppermint drops, 164 

Purvh, choosing of, 22 ; preparation of, 28 

Pettitoes, directions for dre£>sing, 69 

Pheasant, directions for carving, 19 ; di- 
rections for cooking, 80 

Pickles, that will keep for years, receipt 
for, 63 ; rules for preparing and preserv- 
ing the different kinds of, 135—138 

Pics,, cold savoury, forcemeat for, 101 

Pics, apple, directions for making, 121 

Pies, savoury, general directions for mak- 
ing, and various receipts for, 102—108 

Pig, sucking, directions for carving, 17; 
scalding and roasting of, 58, 59 

Pig's cheek, how to prepare for boiling, 
69 

Pig's feet and oars, different ways of 
dressing, 60 : fricasseed, ib. ; Jelly of, 61 

Pig's harslet, directions for dressing, 61 

Pig's head, collaring of, 00 

Pigeon pie, receipt for, 107 

Pigeons, directioiLs for carving, 20; direc- 
tions for choosing, 71; directions for 
dressing, 78; stewing, broiling, roast- 
ing, and pickling, ib. ; In jeliy, 79 ; pot- 
tiiigr of, ib.i management of, In the 
poultry yard, 196 

Pike, choosing of, 21 ; baking of, 29; stuf- 
fing lor, ib. 

Pilchard pie, receipt for, 103 

Fink, dyeing the colour of, 213 



Pipers, how to dress, 29 

Pippin pudding, receipt for, 116 

Pippin tarts, receipt for, 122 

Pistachio cream, 146 

Plaice, dressing of, 30 

Plate, directions for cleaning, 213 

Plovers, directions for choosmg, 71 ; dress- 
ing of, 81 ; eggs of, ib. 

Plum-cakes, dkoctions for making, 171, 
172 

Plum-pudding, receipt for, 116 

Plums, magnum bonum, 163 

Poached eggs, 163 

Pomade divine, receipt for, 208 

Pomatum, receipt for, 208 

Poor, cookery for the, 197, 206 ei »eq. 

Pork, directions for choosing, 35 ; jailing 
of, 37; salting of, 40; various ways of 
cooking, 66, 67; leg. loin, shoulder, 
neck, &o., 67 ; how to dress as lamb, ib. ; 
pickling of, 68; apple-sauce for, 96 

Pork-griskln, preparation of, 67 

Pork-jelly, for the sick, 199 

Pork-pies, receipt for making, 105 

Pork-steaks, directions for cooking, 63 

Porker's-head, how to roast, 69 

Porridffe, milk, preparation of, 202 

Portable soup, directions for, 80 

Pot-pourri, receipt for, 208 

Potato cheese-cakes, 127 

Potato paste, receipt for, 120 

Potato fritters, 118 

Potato paste, 126 

Potato pie, receipt for, 107 

Potato puddings, receipts for, 113 

Potato rolls, 178 

Potatoes, boiling, broiling, roasting, fry- 
ing, and mashing of, 133 

Pots, patent pewter, cleaning of, 217 

Potting of lobsters, shrimps, mackerel, 
herrings, and trout, 32 ; of bceC 45 ; of 
veal, 51; of game, 80; of hares, 82; 
rabbits, 83 

Poultry, directions in the choice of, 70; 
directions for cooking, 71, 72; boil- 
ing, 72; roasting, ib.\ different kinds, 
in season during each mouth of the 
year, 218, 219 

Poultry-yard. 188; directions for manag- 
ing the, 192 et $eq. 

Pound-cake, directions for making, 172 

Prawn-soup, directions for making, 90 

Prawns, choosing of, 22 ; ciirrie of, 33; in 
jelly, t*. J how to butter, ib. 

Preserved firuits, use of, in pastry, 121 

Preserves, 139 ; preparation of, and vari- 
ous receipts, 154 9t ttq. 

Prices of articles, acqua ntance with, 7 

Prune-tarts, 122 

Pudding, a quick-made one, 117 

Puddings, 102 ; general directions for mak- 
ing, and various receipts for, 108 «< teq. ; 
in haste. 111 

Puff-paste, a rich one, 119 

Puffs, the various kinds of apple, lemon, 
cheese, &o., 124 

Pults d'ampur, preparation of, 140 



m 



IKDBX. 



Punch, an excellent method of inaldng^, 
185; difl^rent receipts for, 186, 186 

Quails, cooking of, 81 
Qoaking-pudding, receipt for, 112 
Queeu-cakes, making oi, 173 
Qnince-marmolade, 163 
Quinces, how to preserve (hem, 103 

Babbit-pib, receipt for, 106 

Rabbits, directions for carving, 18.; direc 

lions for choosing, 71; the diflRnrent 

ways of cooking, 82, 89 ; to make a rab* 

bit taste Hke a hare, 83 ; patting o^ ib, ; 

blanching of. ib.; manaeenient of, 197 
Ba^ottt, directions for mafdng, 83, 89 
Raised crusts for meat^pies, Ac, 103; for 

custards, 120 
Baisin-wina making of, 183; with and 

without dder. 189, 184 
Bamakins, preparation ot, 163 
Baspbcrry orandy, mvJang of, 135 
Baspberry cakes, 164 
Baspberry cream, 145 
Baspberry jam, 161 
Baspberry pies, 122 
Baspberry tart, with cream, 133 
Baspberry vinegar, receipt for, 168 
Baspberry vinegar water, for the sick, 904 
Baspberry-water ice, 149 
Baspberry wine, making of, 181 
Batafia, making oC 184 
Batafia-cream, 143, 144, 149 
BatclifTs restorative pork jelly, 1 99 
Beadv money, payment of, 7 
Beceipts, a variety of, with directions for 

servants, 206 
Beeves, cooking of, 81 
Bennet, preparation oi^ for taming milk, 

183 
Be8t<»ratives, different kinds of, for the 

sick, 200 
Bbubaib-tait, 123 

Bice, different preparations of, 160, 151 
Bicebread, 177 
Bice-cake, making of, 173 
Bice-caudle, for the sick, 201 
Bioe-jelly, 147 

Bice milk, preparation of, 150 
Bioe pudiUngs, various receipts for, 112, 113 
Bolls, receipts for various kinds of, 178 
Boman cement, for outside plastering, 211 
Bot La sheep, prevention of, 213 
Bout drop-cakes, 171 
Bufib, cookuig of, 81 
Bush-crcain cheese, making of^ 190 
Busks, directions for making, 175 
Bussian-seed pudding, 117 
Bust, how to preserve irons from, 216; 

how to take it out of steel, 217 

Sack csbaic, 143 

Sack mead, making of, 184 

Saddle of mutton, erections for earvhig, 17 

Sage cheese, making of, 189 

»ago, for the sick, 207 

'1 milk, preparation of, 150 



Sago and aago^milk^ preparation ot, fbt 

the sick, 2^ 
Sago-padding, receipt for, 109 
Salnu^^imdy, preparation of, 151 
Salmon, chooring of, 21 ; directioBS for 
boiling, broilifig, potting, and drying, 
21 ; etoellent dish of dried salmon, 25; 

Sicklhig and collaiing o( ib, 
wp, preparation of, 208 

Baiting of beef or pork, 40, 41 

Sanders, dressing of, 46 

Sauce Robut, for ramps or steaks, 95 

Ssnees, difflBrent kinds 6t, 9B ei »eq. 
sauce to hide the bad colour of fowls, 93 
for iHcassee of fowls, rabbits, Ac, ib, , 
for wild fowl, earpi turkey, fowls, Ac, 
94; i-hi-maitre'd^Otel, io.; for green 
geese, 95 ; for meat or iisli, ib. ; for rumps 
or steaks, 16. ; for hot and cold ro&st 
beef ib. ; for fish pies, 96 ; for hot or 
cold meat, ib. ; for goose and roast pork, 
ib.i for venisoiL <&.; for mutton, ib.i 
ham sauce, ti.; nsh sauce, 96,97; caper, 
oyster, and lobster sauces, 97; shrimp 
and anchovy, 98 

Sausages, cooking 0^58; Spadbury's Ox- 
fordsausages, to. 

Sausages, mutton, preparation of, 67 

Savoury pies. (See Pies, and Pudding*^ 

Scotch leek soup, directions for making, 88 

Sea-kale, boiling of; 134 

Seed-cake, a cheap one, 172 

Sept embcr,Ii8t of articles in season daring 
the month of, 218, 219 

Servants, characters of, 9; various useful 
receipts for, and general directions to, 
203—213 et »eq. 

Shalot vinegar, receipt for, 98 

Shank jelly, for the siclc, 199 

Shelford pudding, receipt for, 116 

Shoulder of mutton, direotions foi' carv- 
ing, 16 

Shrewsbury cakes, makhig ol^, 173 

Shrimp pie, receipt for, 103 

Shrimp sauce, receipt for, 98 

Shrimps, choosing of, 22; how to btitter, 
S3; how to pot, »i. 

Shrub, white enrrant, 136 

Sick, cookery for the, 197 ef $eq. ; broths, 
197, 198 ; jellies, 199 ; panadas, 199, 200; 
sippets, eggs, and restoratives, 200; 
different kinds of restorativesfor the.tji.; 
caudles, 201, 207: mulled wlfie, 201: 
coffee nxilk, 202 ; chocolate, saloop, and 
various preparations of milk, 202, 203; 
gruel and refreshing drinks, 203; Water 
wheys and buttermilk, 204; ortmgeade 
and egg wine, 205 ; si^o, 2^7 

Sippets, preparation of, for the sick, 200 

Sirloin of beef, directions for curving, 14; 
dressing of, 45 

Skate, choosing of, 21 ; preparation o^ 27; 
crimped, t6. 

Skate soup, directions for making, 90 

Smelts, choosing oi, 22 1 frying ot; 30 

Snipes, cooking oi^ 81 

Snow-balls, preparatiQn o^ 140 



INDEX. 



237 



Snow eyeam, 144 

Soap, use ofl 11 

Boda, iM« 0^ 11 

Sole pit, roMipt fat, 108 

Soles, choosiiig of, 21 ; different modM of 

eooking, 29 j in the Fortoffaeee way, 80 ; 

Portuguese stuflBng for, m>. 
Sorrel, stewing of, 133 
Souchv, water, preparation of, 31 
Souffle of rice and apple, 180 
Soup, baked, for the poor, 206 
Soup, an excellent kind for the weakly, 207 
Soup-ik-la sap, directiotts for maldng, 89 
Soup maigre, directions for making, M, 80 
Soups, general directions for makings, 88; 

yarious kinds of, 84 et teqr, colouring 

for, B4; a clear brown stock for, ib.i 

some excellent ones, 84, 85 
Spare-rib of pork, direotionfi for cooking, 

67 
Spinach, dressing ol^ 131 
Spinach cream, 148 

Spina(di soup, direotion« for making, 88 
Sponge-cake, ITS, 174 
Sprats, choosing oi^ 22$ smoking ol^ 31 ; 

baking of, 32 ; driesring of, ib, ; how to 

make them taste like anehovieg, 100 
Squab pie, receipt for. 106 
Staifiaroshire dish of izied herbs and liyer, 

SMns, various receiptB for taking them 
out of linen. 211; caused by acids, 
fruits. &c., ib, ; how to take them out of 
marble, 216 

Steak pudding, receipt for, 114 

Steaks, lamb, cooking ot, 69 

Steaks, mutton, different ways of cooking, 

r 67 

Steel, how to take rust out of, 217 

Stock for brown or white fish soups, 90 

Stone, how to extract oil fSrom, 216 

Stone stairs and halls, how to dean, 216 

Stores, cleaning the fronts of, 217;' how 
to take the black off the bright bars o^ 
ib. } mixture, for cleaning, ift. 

Straw, for domestic use, 11 

StrawDerriee,how to preserve them whole, 
168 ; in wine, ib. 

Stucco, an excellent kind which will ad- 
here to wood, 210: Mason's washer for, 
ib^ yellow, 211 

Stuffing for pike, haddock, and small cod, 
29 

Sturgeon, how to dress, 26^ how to roast, 
27; excellent imitation of pickled stur- 
geon, ib. 

Sacking pig, how to scald, 68 ; directions 
for roasiuig, 69 

Suet, preserving of, 154 . 

Suet dumplings, 117 

Suet puddings, receipts for, 114 

Sugar, how to darifV for sweetmeats, 
164 

Sugar vinegar, receipt for, 98 

SugarS) directions for the choice of, 10 

Supper dish, a very pretty one, 160 

Suppers, bills of fare for, 227 



Sweet dishes, preparation of, and vavfous 
receipts for, 189 «i teq. 

Sweetbreads, difltereut preparations of, 66} 
iVicaesee of, 70 

Sweetmeats. 1^ ; a carmel cover for. 146} 
preservation of, and various receipts foff 
164 tt »eq, ; for tarts, 163; observations 
on, 164 

Sweet-pot, recent for, 209 

Sweets, rice paste for, 119 

Syllabubs, London, Staffordshire, Somer- 
setshire, Devonshire, and everlastlDg, 
160 

Tablb beer, 180 

Tansey, preparation of, 140 

Tapioca jelly for the sick, 199 

Tarts, Hght paste for, 122 ; icing for, 122 ; 

the various kinds oil 122, 123 
Tea cakes, making ol^ 174 
Teal, cooking of, 81 
Tench, choosing of, 21; preparation of, 

28 
Tench broth, for the sick, 198 
Thombaok, preparation of, 27 
Time, on the economy ol^ 8 
Tin covers, how to clean, 217 
Tippling cake, receipt for, 128 
Toast and water, for the sick, 204 
Tomato sauce, receipt flor, 96 
Tongue, boilmg o^ 37 
Tongues, directions for roasthigt 48, 47} 

pickling and stewing o^ 47; an excel- 
lent way of doing them to eat coI^^A. 
Transparent puddmg, recdpt for, 112 
Trifle, receipt for, 14a ; apple and cake, <(•; 

a froth to set on, 146 
Tripe, the various modes of dressing, 48} 

soused, ib. 
Trout, how to fry, 28 ; ii-la-Oenevoise, ib.; 

potting 0^ 32 
Truffles, preparation of, 84; preservation 

0^136 
Trussing, for roasthig and boiling (with 

engravings), 79, 76 
Tunbridge cakes, makhag of^ 173 
Turbot^ directions for cnoosing, 21 ; for 

keeping, 24 ; for boiling, ib. 
Turkey, boiling and roastmg of, 72 ; pulled 

turkey, ib. ; sauce for, 94 . 
Turkey-cock, directions for choosing, 70 
Turkey-patties, 124 
Turkeys, management o^ 195 
Turnip pie, receipt for, 107 
Turnip soup, directions for making, 86 
Turtle, forcemeat for, 101 ; little eggs for^ 

102 

TTddxs, directions for roasting, 46 

Vsjj., fillet and breast of, directions fur 
carving, 16 ; directions for choosing, 34; 
Scotch coUops of. 63 ; keeping and dress- 
ing of, 49 ; leg, Knuckle, shoulder, and 
neck, and the various ways of dressing 
them, ib. ; neck of, a-la-braise, 60 ; breast 
0^ and the different ways of dressing it. 



238 



INDEX. 



ib.; chump of, i^la-daube, ib.; rolls o( 
61 ; hArrico o^ t&. ; a dunelm of» ib.j 
toincaag and potting o^ ib. ; cutlets of, 
61, 62; callops, gcallops, and firicandeau 
of, 62, 63; oiiyes, cake, and Baosages of, 
163 

Veal broth, directtons for making, 84; fbr 
the Bick, lOS 

Yeal gravy, directiona for making, 92 

Teal patties, 124 

Yeal pies, varions receipts for, 104 

Vegetablemarrow,boilingorstewing 0^129 

Vegetable pies, receipt for, 107 

Vegetable soup, directions for making, 87 

Vegetables, to bo kept, 11 ; their tendency 
to corrode metals, 12; directions for 
dressing, and varieos receipts for, 129 
etseq.; how to boil them green, 129; 
preservation of ! for eating in winter, 
134; different kinds in season during 
each month of the year, 218, 219 

Vendor, making of, 186 

Venison, haunch of, directions for carving, 
16; directions for choosing, 34; keep- 
ing and dressing of, 38; roasting, stew- 
ing, and hashing of, 40; old currant 
sauce for, 96 : now to prepare it for 
a pasty, 125 

Venison pasty, 40; crust for, 119; dif- 
ferent preparations of, 125 

Vessels, use of, 12 

Vinegar, its toideucy to corrode metals, 
12 ; the various kinds of, OS, 99 

Vinegar whey, for the sick, 204 

Vingaret, for cold fowl or meat» 98 

WAnsa, making of, 174 
Wainscot oak, how to give a fine gloss to, 
214 



Walnut ketchup, preparation of, 139 
Walnuts, pickling of, 138 
Wash-balls, receipt for making, 209 
Waters, different preparations of, for the 

sick, 204 
Water cakes, making of, 173 
Water-gruel, for the siek» 203 
Waters, receipt for dilTerent kinds of, 

209,210 
Weasels, how to preserve a granary from 

213 
Welsh pudding, receipt for, 117 
Welsh rabbit, making of a, 162 
Wheat bread, 177 
Whey butter, how to manage cream for, 

191 
Wheys, different kinds of, for the sick, 

204 
Whitings, choosing of, 21; preparation 

of, ib. 
Widgeon, cooking of, 81 
Wild ducks, cooking of, 81 
Wild fowl, roasting of, 81; sance for, 04 V 
Windsor beans, dressing of, 131 -, 

Wine, reEniug of, 180; mullhig of, 201; 

stains caused by, 211 
Wine rolls. 148 
Wine vinegar, receipt for, 98 
Wine whey, for the sick, 204 
Wines, 179; receipts for making different 

kinds of, 181 €t nq. ; remarks on, 181 
Woodcocks, cooking of, 81 
Woollen, how to preserve firom.motbs, 

212 

Ybast, directions for making, 170; pre- 
serving of, 180 
Yeast dumplings, 117 
Yorkshire pudding, receipt for, 117 



THB SND. 



Sarin and Edwards, Printers, 4, Chandos-street, Covent-garden. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGl 

OBSERVATIOKS FOB THE USE OF THE MI8TBE8S OF A 

FAMILY 3 

DIBECTIONS FOB CABTING 13 

CHOOSING AND DBESSINO OF FISH 21 

CHOOSING OF MEATS, AND DIFFEBENT MODES OF COOKING 34 

CHOOSING OF POULTBT, GAME, ETC., AND DIFFEBENT 

WATS OF COOKING 70 

SOUPS AND GBAYIES 83 

SAUCES, ETC 93 

PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTBY 102 

DBESSING OF VEGETABLES 129 

SWEET DISHES, PBESEBVES, SWEETMEATS, ETC 139 

MAKING AND BAKING OF CAKES, BBEAD, ETC 169 

HOME BBEWBBT, WINES, ETC 179 

DAIBT AND POULTBY YABD 186 

COOKBBY FOB THE SICK AND FOB THE POOB 197 

tABIOUS USEFUL BECEIPTS, AND DIBECTIONS FOB SEB- 

VANTS . 208 

^ILLS OF FABE, FAMILY DINNEBS, ETC t • • 218 

BEMABKS ON DINNEBS 226 

GENEBAL INDEX • • . i . 229 



ROUTLEDGE'S USEFUL BOOKS. 



Walsh's Haimal of Bomestie Emmomy. #. d. 

With 200 lUustntkms.l Vol., 700 pp., half-bound 10 6 

Walsh's ICaniial of Bomestio Hedicine and Surgery. 

With 200 Plain and Coloured IllustraUons, 1 Vol. thick fcap. 8vo, 

700 pp., half-bound 10 6 

How we are Oovemed. 

A Hand-Book of the Constitution, Ooverament, T^ws, and Power of 
Great Britain. By Albany Fondlanquk, Jun., Esq. Fcap. 8to, 
cloth 2 Q 

Walsh's English Cookery Book. 

With Practical Illuitrationi. Fcap. 8vo, half-bound 3 6 

*' A plain, common-sense Cookery Book."— 17k« Athenaum, 

Pierce's Household Manager; 

A Practical Treatise upon the various Duties of Maltre d'Hotel in 

large Establishments. Fcap. 8vo, doth extra 3 6 

Sleigh's Handy Book of Criminal Law, 

Applicable to Commercial Transactions. Post 8to, doth extra % 6 

Simmond^s (P.L.) Bictionary of Trade Froduots, 

Commercial, Manufacturing, and Technical Terms, with Moneys, 
Weights and Measures of all Countries, reduced to the British Stand- 
ard. Fcap. 8vo, half-bound 6 

Bodd's Kovelties, Inventions, and Cnriosities in Arts and 
Hannfiftotnres. 

Fcap. Sto, doth , tl 

Walsh's Economical Honsekeeper. 

With numerous Practical Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, in large t3rpe .... 8 6 

Bodd's Cnriosities of Industry ; 

Or, the Applied Sciences. Demy 8to, doth limp 3 

Bontledge's American Hand-Book; 

Or, Tourist's Guide through the United States, with a large Map. 

Fcap. 8yo, cloth ^ 

James's Treasury of Medicine; 

Or, Byery One's Medical Guide. Fcap. 8to, cloth 5 



• 



L«nda&: ROUTLEDQE, WARNES, AND ROUTLEDQE. 



ROUTLe(K!E« USEFUL BOOKS 


How to Farm ProfttaUyj \ 
Or, the Sarlngi mi Doing, of Mr. Aldemui Mcchl. wtlh lllu.tT»- ' 
Uom. Pcip.aTO, hoMrdjt 8n orhslf-taunil 2 


6 


EnndeU'a (Uii.) Domastio CwAbtj. 

Forlh,U»otPri.»ter«nillei. WflhT™ lUuttiill™, tap. S.o 


2 

a 




Chevrtral on tlie taws of ContrMt oT Colour, 

ulc Work, Cdleo Prlnllog, At, 4e. lIluHnted wllh Woodoiti 





A REVISF.D EDITION OF THE ABOVE, with Ibt idditJon o 
Sixum pl.tM prlnitd In Coloi.™. 






Uuter'a Baady Beokousr. 

By John Hsatoh. Ths Ninth Edition, with tdditloiud Tsbltt 


1 





BontlBdge'j Haad-Booki. 

CVMNASTICS, By O-OKOl FOUBHt. 
SWIMMINQMdSKATlNa By 0«0»0» FOBMur. Ptlc 

WHIST— with RulH for Plnylng Che Game. ) 


TradMmim'f Bondy Csloolator, 

For Uuom, Pluteien, GUxiflr., PdntM, ic. Hoy.l 3imo, elolh. 





C 


^n«lble Knitlpliefttioa Table, 





e 


Baad7 Bsckoner (Hiniatun Edition). 





6 


Earth (Die), Put, FroHUt, and Future, 

BytheRei. GH.H.SUIIHII1, M,A.,f»p.8vD,Kwed 





fl 


Eoaie'i Wine and Spiiit Kerahant'i Guide. 


^ 


„ 


Eoore'i (Ber. Q. T.) Village Hnienm; 

Or, How H* OMhiied Profit with PlsMuri. Tap. ( 






I*>><lon: ROUTLEDOE, WARNES, AND 





