Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



NimiiHi 




• • • 




y. 



i 



I 



1 



Tiff m 

|MB= — BI.I m 


i 




-1 


jv y. -ra 




iii^^^?f 


IP 


u 


pa 


^ 




i ' V 



,i COOICEUY BOOj. 



vyniSQ 



blYLii WITIT 1-C'K^>MY. 



4 
I 



\i L ri-KSuNS T!v* FVi;V'' f ( 



li'O r.y A cow::criTf.K ■•.• i.a •::"(■■. 



2>lUt t^n.i^-.' :!^u. 



1. y ^j:^ 



IbSO. 




m^ 



f: 



JjP"" 



ENGLISH COOKERY BOOK: 



I minm 



A GOOD STTLK WUH EC0X«51II. 



ADAPTED ID All PEKS05S U EITIT CUXl 



MANY USPUBLISeED SECEIFTS K LULT U^ 

BY PSIYATE FAMUJEa. 



J. BL WAI£H, FJB.CA, 



wBJfM WlttBtBUtDU^ 



LONDON: 
Q. BOUTLEDGE AKD CO^ FABBISTGDOK 8TKEET; 

AMD 18, BEEKXAV 8TSEET« XKIf TOOL 

1859. 



j^^^A ^. /^9, 



PBEFACE. 



Ths greater nmiLber of the leooptB which e umy um this 
Bngltsh Cookery Book fism a part of the extended sjrstem 
of DomniUe Beonomy^ whidi was pahikhed with great soooeas 
in 1857. Thej have beeiL oompOed with the aasistaiioe of 
several ladies who Idndljr tbdirafiiiiteKest in the salijecty and 
who, bdng at the head of -well-ooiidncted establiahmentB^ 
Taiying in extent and^cobaeqiient enwnditare^ maj he ex- 
pected to he good anthadrnj^i the woe of the reoeiptB thej 
have famished. A great-l^pij ol^these are finom their own 
fiunilj scrap-booiks, and almost all hare had the benefit of 
an actual trial ; so that thej may he safely recommended as 
being adapted to everyday nse in our Kngiish Idtdiena. 
Some of them are selected for their economy, others for their 
intrinsic valne as agents in nntrition, and others again solely 
for their flavour, or for the sake of variety ; but all are prac- 
tically nsefol in some shape or other. 

The general directions ^^r roasting, boiling, frying, te,^ are 
founded npon the chemical principles which have recently 
been applied by liebig, HawRall, and others, to the investi- 
gation of animal and vegetable nntritive agents^ and for these 
alone the Editor can take credit to himself. The practical 
directions for the difficult art of pastry-making are by an 
experienced cook, who has also carefally ezamin^l «sA ^j^- 



iy PREFACE. 

rected the receipts tliroughout, and the whole have been 
arranged with a view to a ready discovery of what is wanted 
on the shortest notice. 

The chapters on the department of hotisekeeping which 
especially relates to the kitchen, have been added in order 
to make this book complete in itself; while the directions for 
carving have not been forgotten, although it is believed that 
an actual demonstration is required in order to teach this 
difficult art, so essential to the elegant appearance of the 
table. 

It is hoped that the numerous additions which have been 
made to the original more contracted plan will render this a 
most complete system of English cookery, and adapt it to the 
wants of all fiunilies throughout the United Kingdom and 
the British Colonies. 

J. H. W. 

Sqttembery 18S8. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTEB L-^N FOOD: ITS NATUBE, USE, AKD ABUSE. 
act. PAos 

l.~On fhe EfliBCts upon Man of the Yarioiu Kinds of Food used in Great Britain ... 1 

l^-Ontbe Abuse <^ Food ... ... ... ... ... 8 

t,-JOu VbA leUtlon existing between the Market Price and the AUmentary Value of 

JFOOu •*• .•• (.« ... «.« ««« M. M. .*• 10 

4^J0u the Quantities of Food really demanded by the System ... ... ... 13 

CHAPTEB IL— ON THE ABYANTAGES OP A PBOPEB PREPARATION OF 

FOOD FOB THE HUMAN STOMACH. 

l.»~General Bemaiks ••• ... •«. m. ... ... m. m. 14 

S.— The Cook and her General Utensils 10 



CHAPTEB HL—THE PBEPABATION OF FOOD BY KEEPING. 

2* ucnecal tcemarks ••• »m% m* ••• .m m. .m •*• 28 

S.-.E88entlals for Keeping ib, 

tp—Directtons for Keeping m. «• m. .^ «. ... ... ... 28 

CHAPTEB iy_GENEBAL BEMABKS ON ROASTING AND BAKING. 

1.— General OtwerratliMis ... «. 

S.'— >Utensils ... ... ... .•* •*. ... 

8L— Spitting and Trussing 
4.~General Management of the Fire 
C^General Principles of Boasting 
6l— Oven-roasting ... ••. 



• • •• • 

••• ••• 



••• ••• 



M. 


••• 


82 


»•• 


••• 


S3 


• •• 


• •• 


85 


• •• 


• •• 


89 


• •• 


• «• 


41 


• •• 


• •• 


46 



CHAPTEB V.-THE BOILING, STEAMING, AND STEWING OF ANIMAL FOOD. 

L— General Obeerrations ... ... ». ... ... ... ... ... 48 

a*^^u census... •.. m. ... ... ... ... •.. ... ... 4/ 

8— General Principles of Boiling t6. 

4.~I>irections and Modes of Trussing for Boiling 48 

8,~-Tbe Steaming of Meat, Ac %.. •«. M 

•.—TlMFriiidples of Stewing •• ••• «• »« ««» ti 



VI CONTENTS. 



CHAPTEB VL— FRYING OB Sauteing, BOILING, TOASTING, AND BEAISINQ 

OF ANIMAL FOOD. 

1.— Frying or Sautelng. 51 

Z-~~*l'011IUg ••• ••• ••• ••• ■(« «aa ,,, ... ,,, ,,, o4 

S.~Toa8tlng Meats, Ac. ... 55 

^« *"^p rflXoi I t y ••• ••• •• ••• ••• ••« ••• •• ••■ to 



CHAPTER VIL-jON THE COOKING OF FISH BY BOILING, FRYING, Ac. 

i.—^Generai xConiflrKS ..• m. ... ... ••• .*• ... ... 56 

2.— Special Directions for Dressing River Flail ... ... 60 

8.— Special Directions for Cooking Sea Flsli • ... ... 65 

4.— 49peciai Directions for Dressing Shell Fish ... 70 



CHAPTER ynt-SOUP-MAKING, SOUPS AND BROTHS. 

L— General Remarks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 74 

3i"^xne Obcnsiis ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... lO 

3.— Soup'-making ... ... ... ... ... ... ... m. ... 76 

4. — Receipts for Soups ... ... ... ... •>. ... ... 78 



CHAPTER IX.— GRAVIES, SAVOURY SAUCES, FORCEMEATS AND SAUSAGES. 

1.— General Remarks 

8 —Gravies and Savoary Jellies 

8 .^Savoury Sauces... 

4.— Stuffings, Forcemeats, Ac ... 

^.-.Sausages, Black Puddings, Ac, 



CHAPTER X.— THE COOKING OF RAW BUTCHER'S MEAT. 

1.— Remarks ... ... .. ••• ••• ••• ••■ 

2.^Recf ... ... ••• ... ••• •*. ••• 

!*{.— Mutton ... ... ... ••* ••• ••• ••' 

4.— LfimD ... ... ••« ••• ••• ••• ••• 

fi «-^vcai ... ... ... ... ••. ••* .* 

o,«-^x or& ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• •* 

7.-— > enison ... ••• ••. ••• ••» ••« ••< 



CHAPTER XL-SAUSAGES, BLACK PUDDINGS, Ac 

1.— Sausa!?es ... ... ••. ••• •*. ... *» ••• ••• 1^5 

2— Black Puddings and White Puddings 146 

3.— Suveloys... ... ... ... ••• ... ••• ••• ••• ••• '4/ 



CHAPTEB XIL 
TXDS COOEZNG OP POULTBT AND GAKB • ••, m* ••• ••• 147 





• •• 




v^ 


••• 


• •• 




ib. 




••* 




100 


• •• 


• •• 




107 




• •• 




110 



■•• 


••• 




113 


••• 


••• 




114 


••• 


••• 




122 


••• 


■•• 




129 


••• 


••• 




130 


••• 


••« 




141 


••• 


«•■ 




144 



CONTENTS. vii 



CHAPTEB Xm— WABMED-T7P MEATS, AND MADE-UP DISHES OB ENTRIES. 
1. — General Bemarks ••• •>• ... ... ... ... ... ... IM 

• "UlcIUllB ••• •*• **• **• ... ... ... ... ... ... Xvf 

&— Dressed Meats and Poultry wanned up ib. 

4.-.yariou8 Entries, or Comer Dishes ... ... ... ... 169 

0— Potted Meats and Sandwiches 178 



CHAPTEB XIY.-.yEGETABLE3. 

L— General Obsenrations in Dressing Vegetables 183 

&— Special Directions for Dressing Vegetables. ... ... ... ... ... 183 

Ob ■ ■ 4yQi 1 «1> ••« ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• X94 



CHAPTEB XV.— SALADS AND SALAD MIXTUBES. 

1 Ordinary English Salads ... 105 

S.>-French Salads ... .« ... 196 

8.— .Beceipts for Salad Mixtores .^ ... .« 1&7 

CHAPTEB XVL-ON THE MAKING OF PASTRY. 

L—General Bemarks ^ 198 

a—Beceipts for Making Pastiy „ ib. 

CHAPTEB XVIL— SAVOUBY PIES AND PUDDINGS, PATTIES, AND 

VOL-AU-VENTS. 

L— General Bemarks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... SOS 

iL— Meat, Game, and Fish Pies f'ft. 

*-^KaiseQ iries ... ... ... ,., „. ... ,,, ... ... 211 

4.— Savonry Patties and Vol-aa-vents ... 212 

S.—SaT0ui7 Puddings .M 218 

CHAPTEB XVIEL— SWEET PASTBY. 

L^-General Bemarks ••• ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 215 

■1 IT I'ult Xcuru..* ■«• ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 216 

8.— O^artlets, Cheesecakes, &c „ 219 

1— Sweet Sandwiches and Crisp Pastiy ... ... ... 228 

CHAPTEB XCL— PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES. 

^•""^Vfenerai Xwemar&s ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 22S4 

dL^^x UGlClUlgS •«• ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xo» 

8.— Dumplings ... ... ... ... — ... ... ^ ••• ... 251 

^—Padding Sauces ••• ... ... ... ... ... ..• 2S2 

CHAPTEB XX-PANCAKES, SWEET OMELETS, AND SOUFFLES. 

1.— Pancakes and Fritters ... ... ... ... ... «,• ,•• .%% ^&v 

l^-SoBtBds and Oweleta ..• ... . , ^ ... ^^ ,m •«• ^^^^^^ 



«« • 



TIU CONTENTS. 



CUAPTEB XXL-CBEAMS, CU8TABDS, JELLIES, AND STEWED FRUIT. 

1.— General Observations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 260 

2.— Creams and Custards ... ... 2<S8 

0«'^"V cillco ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ZfO 

4.— stewed Fruits; to stew Normandy rippinfi... 282 

CHAPTER XXn— FRENCH COOKERY AND MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

1.— French Cookery as compared with the English School ... 28T 

2.— Miscellaneous Cookery Receipts ... ... ... ... ,•• 291 

8.— Confectioners Receipts ... 207 

CHAPTER XXra.— COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 

X^^XWCIUftrRS ••• «•• ««« mmm ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• •»# oux 

2.-.Tlie Rich Man's Saperflnltle»— Boilings «. ib. 

a— The Poor Man's Cookery ... ,„ «. SOS 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

ImTALID COOKSHT... ... «. ... ... ... ... .« ... 814 

CHAPTER XX7. 
Plan OF HouBEKEEPiNO, AND Bills ov Fabs 822 

CHAPTER XXVI 
Principles of CABViNa ^ 388 

CHAPTER XXVn. 
Housekeeping AccouHxe AND ToxAL Okodiabt ExnsNDiTDiui 34S 



THE 



PRINCIPLES AND PMCTICE OF ENGLISH 

COOKERY. 



CHAP. I.— ON FOOD: ITS NATURE. USB, AND ABUSE. 

Sect. 1. — On the Effects upon Maw of the Vabious Kinds of 

Food Used in Great Britain. 

1. The Varieties of Food, the cookery of which is described in 
the following pages, are all, more or less, employed in Great Britain, 
and may be considered as comprising the full diet-roll of the country. 
It is first necessary to examine their effects npon the human system, 
and the comparatiye worth of each, as well in point of absolute 
efficiency, as of cost price. But it is impossible to do this with any 
thing Uke certainty, because of the different circumstances connected 
with age, sex, temperament, and habits, affecting individuals, and 
Q^^vea the same indiyidual at consecutive periods of his life. AU, 
therefore, that can be attempted is to calculate the average quantity 
of solid food, of the best mixed kind, required by adult men leading 
active lives, and then to consider how near any other kind approaches 
to this in supporting the full vigour of the system. In this estimate 
it is assumed, that in Great Britain an active adult male will consume 
about two pounds of solid food, consisting of bread, cheese, meat, 
vegetables, and milk ; while a healthy female will not require more 
tlian a pound and a half, the average consumption of the two being 
one pound and three-quarters per head daily. In all cases, therefore, 
when a larger quantity than this of any article is required by healthy 
individuals, it may be considered that it is not of the average degree 
of nutritive value ; and, on the other hand, when a less amount is 
sufficient, it is then, by the same rule, above the line. In support of 
this calculation, the diet of the nsLvy may be add\icciCL»'^\\\OEi\&^^N>^ 



EN'QLISH COOKERY. 



riously on a most liberal scale, and intended for very robust and 
hard-working men, exposed to all weathers. It consists dailj of odo 
pound of biscuit (or one pound and a quarter of soft bread), with one 
pound of fresh meat and half a pound of vegetables (or one pound of 
salt pork and half a pint of peas, or one pound of salt beef and nine 
ounces of flour, three ounces of suet, and one ounce and a half of 
currants). In addition to which there is a dailj supply of tea, choco- 
late, sugar, and spirit ; and, weekly, a small allowance of spices and 
oatmeal. If, therefore, it is found that this slight increase above two 
pounds per day is euough for such men, who are above the average in. 
their requirements, the amount which I have stated may fairly be 
taken as the average for working-men in general. 

2. Evert Kind of Food will be useful in proportion to the nature 
and amount of the solid matter which it contains, the fluid particles 
being comparatively inoperative ; and, in the case of some kinds of 
vegetables, being also greatly in excess of the solid. But not only is 
this quantity of solid matter important, but its quality also must not be 
overlooked ; and in this particular chemical science is not always a 
sure guide, since there are many substances almost identical in ulti* 
mate composition which are yet widely opposed in their effects upon 
the human economy. Thus, the fibres of wood are composed of car- 
bon, oxygen, and hydrogen, in the same proportions as starch, and 
yet they are perfectly indigestible ; while the latter is as readily con- 
verted into nutriment as any substance we- have. In the same way, 
homy matter and bones, though readily dissolved by ^e powers of 
the dog's stomach, pass through that of man almost unchanged ; and 
yet they are full of nitrogenized ingredients, which, when capable of 
solution, or after they are dissolved by the aid of water at a high 
temperature, are of the highest possible value. It follows, therefore, 
that every substance used as food must be considered under three 
aspects — 1st, as to the nature of its ultimate elements ; 2nd, as to the 
proportion of solid matters contained in it ; and 3rd, as to its digestibility 
by the human stomach, 

3. The Chemical Composition of the Solids varies in many 
particulars, but chiefly in the presence or absence of nitrogen. Almost 
all articles of food contain the three elementary substances known as 
carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, together with more or less of mineral 
matter, in the shape of salts or earths ; but a certain number of other 
kinds of aliment contain, in addition, more or less of nitrogen or azote ; 
and hence these two divisions ftre distinguished, as — Ist^ non-nitro* 



EFFECTS OF FOOD UPON KAN. 



genized or non-azotized articles ; and, 2Dd, nitrogenized or azotized — 
the terms nitrogenized and azotized meaning one and the same thing, 
whilst the term protein compound, which is commonlj confounded with 
them, is bj physiologists confined to that exact condition or proportion 
of nitrogen with carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, which is capable of 
being conyerted into albumen, fibrine, or casein, in the process of 
digestion. 

4. Thb Azotized Compouitds are required for the repair of the 
muscular tissue, and for the nutrition of the body generally, and 
consequently a proper amount of them must be obtained, or the 
machine will not be maintained in a state of health, nor will it be kept 
alive without a certain proportion of them. The list of azotized 
articles of food includes not only many animal substances, as albumen, 
fibrine, casein, &c., but also some few vegetables, such as the grains of 
com, the seeds of leguminous plants, cabbages, mushrooms, &c 
As a consequence, therefore, of their containing nitrogen, all these 
are specially calculated to support the muscular powers, and to keep 
up the supplies necessary for the general nutrition of the body; 
and, in whatever form they are introduced into the stomach, they 
are capable of being converted into the particular material required. 
So that, by the aid of the digestive powers, wheaten bread is as 
capable of forming muscle as flesh itself, containing in fact a vege- 
table albumen identical in composition with that of the animal king- 
dom. But some other azotized materials are not found already 
daborated in the vegetable kingdom — as, for instance, gelatine ; and 
though this may be manufactured in the animal economy out of vege- 
table substances, yet there is reason to believe that if it is presented to 
the stomach ready formed, it is more easily applied to the purposes of 
nutrition ; and consequently gelatine, or, in common language, jelly, is 
a very valuable aid to the food of weakly or invalid persons, though it 
is ascertained by experiment that by itself it will not support life. It 
Is also doubly useful in this state, because it is at once absorbed by 
endosmose from the lining of the stomach and intestines without any 
necessity for the process of digestion and assimilation — ^an act which, 
of itself, requires an expenditure of vital power. 

5. The Non-azotized Cohpoundb, used as food, are met with in 
great abundance in the vegetable kingdom, though there are few vege- 
tables which, in their natural state, are wholly deprived of nitrogen. 
Bat the manufactured articles of food commonly known as arrowrooU 
sngar, oil^ and fome others, are composed of caxboii, \i^iixo\(,<£Ci^ vcA 



ENGLISH COOKEBT. 



oxygen alone, and are chiefly used in supporting the respiratory 
process, and thus maintaining the temperature of the hody. Among 
the compounds known as sugar and starch, the amount of oxygen is 
only sufficient to form water hy its union with the hydrogen contained 
in them, and thus the carhon is at liberty to combine with the oxygen 
introduced through the lungs, forming carbonic acid, and giving out 
heat. Again, in the oily matters used as food, the proportion of 
oxygen is so small that they contain a large surplus of hydrogen as 
well as carbon, ready to be burned off in the system by union with 
oxygen obtained from the air. It is generally belieyed that the most 
simple of these non-azotized compounds, as sugar and starch, are 
carried off by the respiratory process within a very short time after 
they are introduced into the system ; while the oily matters, which are 
taken up by the lacteals, and require a greater amount of assimilative 
power, are not so readily brought into use, though quite as efficacious 
when properly prepared. When the amount of respiratory or non- 
azotized matter is too small for the heat-producing office, a larger 
amount of azotized materials must be employed to supply its place, in 
which there is a great waste. Thus, supposing 100 grains of oil to 
develop a certain amount of heat, then, in order to accomplish the 
same effect, 240 grains of starch must be used, or 249 grains of cane- 
sugar, 263 grains of grape-sugar, 266 grains of proof spirit, and 770 
grains of fresh lean meat Alcohol belongs to the respiratory class, 
and, if properly diluted, it may be rendered very serviceable when there 
is a deficiency of heat-producing material, or when the surrounding air 
is so cold as to call for an extra supply. But if employed in hot 
climates, or in addition to food already abounding in carbon and hydro- 
gen, it is injurious, from its affording more of these elements than is 
wanted by the system. 

6. It is thus cleas that in man, as well as in all other warm^ 
blooded animals but the carniyorons tribes, a mixture of azotized and 
non-azotized substances is required for his support. Nature has taught 
him to supply the wants of his system in the most complete manner, 
as far as general principles are concerned ; and all that art can do is 
to direct him in his search for those particular articles of food 
which are most readily obtained, or most easily digested and assimi- 
lated to his own wants. No substance is more extensively used than 
bread, either made of wheat, Indian com, or rye ; and there is none 
met with throughout the world, upon which alone man can subsist for 
ftny length of time without injury to healthy excepting, perhaps, oat- 



EFFECTS OF FOOD UPON MAN. 5 

meal porridge, which indeed so closely resembles bread in its compo- 
sition as to be almost identical with it ; and milk, which iu still more 
adapted to support life, but is chiefly intended for young animals by 
nature. With the addition of a moderate quantity of butter, the heat- 
producing power of bread is rendered quite sufficient to meet the 
wants of even our coldest winters ; while, for the purpose of affording 
additional muscular support, flesh, albumen, or milk containing casein, 
must be supplied, together with gelatine in the shape of soups or 
jellies. But when bread forms a principal article of diet, unless the 
individual is taking a great amount of exercise, the regular use of 
meat in large quantities should be cautiously indulged in, being dis- 
advantageous both to the pocket and to the health. On the other 
hand, when rice, potatoes, or any other vegetable substances, almost 
wholly free from nitrogen, are the chief articles of diet, either an 
enormous bulk must be digested in order to obtain a sufficient supply 
of nitrogen, and to the great waste of the carbon and hydrogen, or else 
some material containing a large proportion of nitrogen must be added, 
such as eggs, milk, or flesh. Lastly, the oily kinds of food are chiefly 
adapted for those who live in very cold climates, and require an extra 
supply of heat, and who are consequently led to devour train-oil with 
the greatest avidity. It is said that the Esquimaux will devour thirty 
pounds of blubber at a meal, and, as it is slowly digested, they are 
enabled to go for several days without another supply, and in the 
interval to keep up a temperature equal to their wants when exposed 
to their severe climate. 

7. Th£ Belatiye Fsopobtions of azotizcd and non-azotized sub- 
stances in our ordinary articles of food are here appended, on the 
authority of Liebig; the non-azotized being calculated as starch : — 



Article of Aisotized or Bloods making 


Kon-a20tized or Rcspirutory 


Food. 


Materials. 




Materials. 


Teal contains 




10 


to 


1 


jEiftro ••• ••• ••• 


••• 


10 


ti 


a 


Beef (lean) 

Lentils 


• •• 


10 
10 




17 
21 


Horse-beans 


• •• 


10 


ti 


22 


•tnc&o ••• ••• ••• 


• •« 


10 


n 


2H 


Fat mntton 


• •« 


10 


It 


27 


Fat pork 

Coyrs milk 


• •• 


10 


tf 


SO 


• • • 


10 


ft 


80 


Haman milk 


• •• 


10 


It 


40 


Wheat-flour 


• •• 


10 


It 


40 


Oatmeal 


• •• 


10 


IV 


60 


Bye-flour 


• •• 


10 


ti 


67 


jjtLTiKy ••• ■■■ ••# 


«•• 


10 


ti 


67 


FoUtoes (white) ... 


• #• 


10 


ti 


%i 


Pitto (blue) 


• •« 


10 


ti 


W^ 


Xlli^ ••• #*• ••• 


••• 


10 




Vii 


Buck-wheat ,.. ,„ 


• •• 


10 


It 
11 


'iSfi) 



6 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



In this table it must be remembered, that several of the items are 
somewhat different from those used in this country, as, for instance, 
Teal, which in (Germany is almost wholly devoid of fat, while in this 
country it is often sold with a considerable quantity of that heat-pro- 
ducing article. The same will apply to beef, which, as here sold, will 
in its composition be more nearly like that of fat mutton in the above 
table. Still it will show the relative properties in each kind of food; 
and the observer may class them pretty nearly as they are here given 
in point of azote. It will thus appear that it will take 133 lbs. of rice, 
or 125 lbs. of blue potatoes, to supply as much muscular tissue as 27 lbs. 
of lean beef, or 37 lbs. of fat mutton, or 40 lbs. of cow*s milk, or 56 lbs. 
of wheat flour, or 60 lbs. of oatmeal ; and consequently the hard-work- 
ing man, who chiefly expends muscular tissue, must make a double 
calculation; — 1st, what substance will supply him with the azotized 
materials which he requires, joined with a sufllcient amount of respi- 
ratory matter ; and, 2nd, will that substance give it him at the lowest 
possible price ? It is obvious that the less waste the better — ^that is to 
say, that the two classes of substances should, in theoiy, be exactly 
proportioned to the wants of the system, and that all beyond this is a 
waste of digestive power, and of material also ; but in practice it 
sometimes happens that the poor man, being limited in his supply of 
money, can lay it out to more advantage by purchasing a larger 
amount of articles theoretically extravagant, but which, though wast- 
ing a part of their elements, will still afford him more of what his 
system demands. Thus, in round numbers, the quantity of potatoes 
equivalent to bread and meat are respectively four, two, and one — that 
is to say, that four pounds of potatoes will go as far in affording mus- 
cular tissue as two pounds of bread or one pound of meat ; and when- 
ever this quantity of potatoes can be purchased for less money than 
two pounds of bread or one pound of meat, which is almost always 
the case, they may with advantage be substituted for the two last 
kinds of food in an economical point of view. But as it is well known 
that man cannot long live upon one article of diet, and as the four 
pounds of potatoes would be too bulky for the stomach, and would 
give the excretory organs too much to do in getting rid of their super- 
fluous carbon and hydrogen, it follows that. In point of health, a diet 
composed entirely of this root is prejudicial to health in all ways. 
When mixed, however, with bread and meat, nothing is more wholesome 
or more economical than the potato ; and it is only when its use is carried 
to excess that it should be condemned as injurious to mankind. 



EFFECTS OF FOOD 0PON MAN. 



8. But thb Mineral Elements of Food are no less necessaiy 
than those we hare heen hitherto examining ; for, though the chief 
bulk of the body is built up from the four elementary principles which 
haTe heen investigated, yet we shall find that all food capable of long 
sustaining life must contain the mineral salts which are met with in 
the blood. An alkaline condition of this fluid is absolutely essential 
to the performance of its functions ; and every acid which enters it 
must at once be neutralized and carried off in the secretions or excre- 
tions. Thus, the vegetable acids are speedily oxidized in the blood, 
and become converted into carbonic acid and water, and then appear 
as alkaline carbonates, while uric acid becomes converted into urate 
of ammonia, and is discharged with the urine. The mineral ingredi- 
ents of food are either phosphates and sulphates alone, as in flesh, 
grain, and pulse, or these salts mixed with silicates and carbonates, as 
in green vegetables. These are partly soluble and partly insoluble 
in water ; and as the soluble salts of the ashes of the blood are the 
same as those of urine, and since we can affect the nature of the latter 
fluid by a change of diet, we may not only arrive at the soluble salts 
of the blood from examining those in the urine, but we may modify 
them also by changing the diet. Phosphoric acid and the phosphates, 
as well as other mineral ingredients, are absolutely necessary to effect 
the vital changes constantly going on, and hence we see the import- 
ance of supplying them in due proportion and admixture. This is 
the reason why boiled flesh (or fibrine) alone will not support life ; 
and why yolk of egg, cheese, and similar matters, likewise fail when 
used by themselves. The pure fibre of meat is certainly rich enough 
in phosphoric acid, but it has lost the alkalies in the juice; the yolk 
of egg is still richer in the same phosphoric acid, but it, likewise, is 
deficient in alkali, which is confined to the white. In cheese, again, 
the same division of these matters has taken place, the whey retaining 
an the alkali contained in the milk. Hence it is that salt is so use- 
fuHy added in unusually large proportions to boiled meat, eggs, and 
cheese. It is for these reasons, that in all boiled meats the broth 
ought to be eaten with them, or, at all events, used as soup on the 
alternate days, the system being content to wait for that short time for 
the supply of the saline materials, especially if common salt is eaten 
at the same time, as is almost universally practised. 

9. Gbken Yeoetables contain these saline ingredients in large 
pn>portion, so that they may be advantageously \i&^d. v«\V\i\iQfC^%.^ ^v\v 
meat in which the alkaline Juices have been lo&t>\>o\Xiva\^i^^^'^'^^^ 



H ENGLISH COOKERY. 

and in the boiling process. Hence it has been found by experience, 
that carrots, parsnips, turnips, and greens are adrantageonslj mixed 
with boiled beef, which, without their addition, or some substitute for 
them, will in a short time produce that horrible disease known as 
scurry. It is not, however, sufficient in such cases to boil these 
vegetables in large quantities of water, and then to eat them without 
their juices contained in the water ; but they should be steamed in 
small quantities of water, and this should be taken with them, in 
order to extract all their virtues, and render them available. 

10. The Use op Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa has of late years become 
almost universal in this country ; and as they all contain a principle 
nearly identical with each other, and acting in the same way upon the 
system, it is therefore right to consider them as one and the same. 
They all seem to promote the natural vital changes, and especially 
muscular and nervous action. It is true, that the precise effect pro- 
duced cannot be watched; but it is accompanied with a sense of 
refreshment attended with new vigour, which is very peculiar, and so 
captivating that it is very rare to find individuals giving up the use of 
one or the other of these articles after they are once accustomed to 
them. It is indeed asserted, that no nation has ever ceased to take 
either tea, coffee, or cocoa, after once taking to them as a general 
beverage; and this is, perhaps, the highest character which can be 
given of any article notoriously free from injurious effects upon the 
morals. A nation may easily be led wrong, by acting on the passions 
or appetites ; but when it is led in any other way, it may reasonably 
be maintained that the mode of temptation is not only free from harm, 
but in all probability is in itself good. 

Sect. 2. — On the Abuse op Food, 

11. In the preceding section it has been shown that a diet of a 
mixed kind is best adapted for maintaining the health of man, and 
that the ingredients of which it is composed should be varied from 
time to time, and also according to the age of the individual. Thus 
it is right to use animal as well as vegetable food in moderation, and 
in proportion to the demands of the system ; but more than this is an 
abuse, and should not be encouraged, as it will surely, sooner or later, 
produce mischief in some organ or organs. Even alcohol is required 
under certain circumstances, where a great expenditure of heat is 
going on, and at all times may be indulged in without injury if pro- 
perly dilated, and in moderate quantities ; though at the same time, 



THE ABUSE OF FOOD. 



in oar temperate climate, it is not required bv healthy men who can 
command a sufficient amount of heat-producing solid food. The 
yarions abuses of food maj therefore be considered as consisting in — 
1st, excess in quality; 2nd, jexcess in quantity; and, 3rd, abstinence from 
the food required, 

12. Excess in Qualitt is chiefly the result of too highly-stimulating 
food; that is to say, it consists in partaking of articles which in 
themselves are highly proper as containing the desired elements, but 
in too concentrated a form. When taken into the stomach they 
produce disorder of it from excess of proper stimulus, just as an 
exceedingly strong light injures the eyes, although a smaller amount 
of it is absolutely essential to vision. Prom this cause strong extracts 
of meat when taken by themselves, rich creams, strong alcoholic 
drinks, and other concentrations of otherwise wholesome foods, are 
sure to cause indigestion, and, in the case of alcohol, injury to the 
whole system. 

13. Excess in Quantity may either be of the whole elements of the 
food, or of part. It is well known that the gastric juice is essential to 
digestion, and that it is poured into the stomach, not in proportion to 
the food swallowed, but in exact relation to the demands of the 
system ; so that if these are small, and yet a large meal is eaten, there 
will not be sufficient gastric juice to digest it, and, as a consequence, 
a considerable amount of crude and easily-fermented food is passed 
on, or rejected by vomiting. In either case this produces some 
disorder of the system ; and, when habitually indulged in, the effect 
on the stomach, as well as other organs, is very prejudicial. But 
besides this bad effect of too great a quantity of otherwise proper food, 
there is also that resulting from too profuse a supply of either of the 
two kinds required by the system, and described as blood-making and 
respiratory. The great and prevalent error in this country is that of 
eating too much blood-making or azotized matter, whether in the 
shape of animal or vegetable food ; for even in the latter there is too 
large a proportion to bear mixture with much flesh, as in the case 
of wheat, peas, or beans. On the other hand, the proportion of 
respiratory matter may be easily rendered too great, and particularly 
when strong alcoholic liquors are largely imbibed, as unfortunately so 
often happens. In this kind of abuse the injury is twofold — first, from 
the excessive stimtdus mentioned in the last paragraph ; and, secondly, 
fnmt the enormous preponderance of respiratory TCkSkXt^T, 'Brj VvcXx^a 
of the strong attraction for oxygen, alcohol \a ftxsl o^\^\'l^^ ^*> ^^ 



10 ENGLISH OOOKERT. 



exclasion of the solid food, and even before the absolute and living 
tissues of the body. If the food is already composed of safficient 
starch, sugar, or fat, every drop of alcohol is poisonous to a certain 
degree; bat, on the other hand, when taken with cheese, meat, or 
eggs, in which there is a large quantity of nitrogen, alcohol in some 
shape is by no means injurious, unless its stimulating effects are too 
great from being in a very concentrated form. It is for this reason 
that our instinct has taught us to take wine or beer with savoury food 
in preference to sweets. 

14. Abstinence from the Quantity ob Qualitt of Food required 
by the system, is just as great an abuse of what is freely offered to us 
as the opposite extreme. Thus, it is clearly shown that man is an 
animal designed to live on a mixed diet, consisting of azotized and 
non-azotized materials in a given proportion. It matters not whether 
these are obtained from the animal or vegetable kingdom, as far as 
the effect upon him is concerned. A man may feed as fully, and 
form more blood, on a vegetable diet composed of peas or beans, than 
he would do on fat meat. There is no difference, as far as is known^ 
in the power of producing blood, between flesh and bread, if the 
former is mixed with a proper amount of starch or oily matter. But 
there is one reason why flesh is superior to all other kinds of food for 
the purpose of supplying the waste of muscular tissue ; and that i% 
that it is the very substance which it is intended to form, and there- 
fore is more readily built up into the animal machine. The proper 
rule is to obtain the necessary amount of each kind of food in a state 
as near as possible to that tissue for which it is intended, and avoiding 
too highly concentrated a form. The instinct of man has always led 
him to apply this rule whenever he could ; though in many cases, for 
want of sufficient intelligence, he has been led to confine himself, on 
the one hand, to flesh alone, as in the case of the American Indians j 
and on the other, to roots, as in the case of the stunted tribes of the 
interior of Africa. 

Sect. 3. — On the Relation existing between the Market P&ice 

AND the AlIHENTART VaLUB OF FoOD. 

15. By the former of these terms is understood the cost of any 
article of food in the regular market, while the latter refers to its good 
effects upon the body. It will generally be found that these two are 
/>retty nearly proportioned to one another; or, in other words, that 



COM PAEATIVE VALUE OF FOOD. 



11 



mankind haye now found out the precise alhnentarj value of most 
kinds of food, and have priced them accordinglj. Yet this is not 
always the case, and one great object of the economist in household 
affairs is to seek out such as are sold below their real value, and use 
ihem for their proper purposes. It is a rule generally maintained, 
that the supply of any article is equal to the demand ; but in pro- 
portion to the increase of the demand is the price raised, unless the 
supply is practically unlimited, when the larger the demand the more 
the price seems to fall. But still it is notorious that whenever it is 
found out that any well-known article has more useful qualities than 
have generally been assigned to it, the demand being increased has a 
tendency to raise the price, and from that time it is no longer bene- 
ficially applicable, and gradually again falls out of use. It must be 
remembered that in several of our aliments as sold in the market 
there is a large proportion of water, as in butcher's meat, fish, poultry, 
and 'green vegetables, including potatoes ; while in flour, rice, and 
Mkhtsr similar articles, the quantity of water is comparatively small. 
The following table exhibits the quantity of nutritive matter in the 
ordinary articles of food, as compared with their price : — 



COXPASATIVB VALUB OF FOOD IK NUTBITIVZ MATTBB. 





Nntrltlre 
Matter. 


Price. 












lb. 


£ 8. d. 


100 lbs. of Bnteher*8 meat oontain 


#•• 


• •• 


85 


2 18 4 


tt 


ft 


Bakers bread (wconds) ... 


• •• 


••• 


75 


18 9 






Home-made bread I 
Do. da < 


[seconds) 
brown) ... 


• •• 

• •• 


• •• 

• •• 


80 
78 


17 8i 
13 6k 


*t 


M 


Do. da 1 


wheat and Indian meal)... 


76 


15 7^ 


•, 


tl 


Da da 


wheat and rice) 


• •■ 




68 


14 


tt 


«t 


Do. da 1 


wheat and potatoeti) 




63 


15 l| 


*t 


tf 


Rice and sago ... .„ ... ... 






90 


15 


9f 


tt 


French beans (dried) 






92 


1 10 


n 


«t 


Broad beans (srecn, bot mealy) ... 






81 


2 10 


«t 


ft 


Peas (dried) 






93 


15 


«t 


tt 


Do. (green) 






70 to 78 


2 10 


ff 


It 


Potatoes ... 






25 to 28 


6 8 


n 


tl 


Carrots and parsnips. 






14 


10 


«t 


tt 


Cabbages. 






H 


8 6 


♦» 


tt 


Turnips 






6 


8 6 



From this table it will appear, that very nearly in proportion to the 
amount of the nitrogenized matter in the food, and its fitness for 
digestion, is the price in the market. Thus, butcher's meat stands the 
highest in price, not because it contains the largest q}3La.\i\I\\.^ q^ \!l\Xx^^ 
genizcd nutritive matter, but because it is the most d\^es\XN:A<^ ^^ \X:lq^^ 



13 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



which are so compounded, and contains, in addition, a liberal supply 
of those saline matters which are required ; it is therefore valued at 
Is. 8d. per lb. of nutritive matter. Dried beans and peas, on the other 
hand, which" contain about the same proportion of nitrogen (see table 
at page 5), are only valued in public estimation at 4d. per. lb. of 
nutritive matter ; the reason being that they are neither so digestible 
nor so easily convertible into fibrine as meat, and that they do not 
contain a proper amount of saline matters. Bread, again, which is 
composed of these elements in a suitable proportion, sells at 3d. per 
lb. of nutritive matter, and is consequently much cheaper than meat, 
or even than beans and peas, and very much more so than potatoes, 
rice, and sago, which, though so much vaunted as a cheap food, are 
really deficient in every point of view, being actually sold at from 3d. 
to 3|d. per lb. of nutritive matter, and that of a kind almost wholly 
without nitrogen. The exact price of potatoes is 3d., and of rice or 
sago Sjd. per lb. of nutritive matter. Carrots, parsnips, cabbages, and 
turnips, vary from 8d. to Is. per lb. of nutritive matter, and cannot^ 
therefore, be compared in this respect with any of those itinds men- 
tioned above; but from the quantity of saline matter which they 
contain, they are invaluable adjuncts to meat, bread, and potatoes, 
and should never be omitted for any lengthened period. 

Sect. 4. — On the Quantities or Food beally demanded by 

THE System. 

16. This subject has been previously alluded to, and it will, there- 
fore, only be necessary here to repeat in a tabular form the average 
quantities of each kind of food required by a healthy man taking an 
ordinary amount of exercise :— 

(a) Average Daily Amount of the Best Kind of Food required 
by an Adult Male :— 























8. 


d. 


]\reat (uncooked) 


••• 


• «• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


OJlb. ... 





6 


liread ... 


• •• 


• •• 


• •« 


• •• 


• •■ 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


0*„ ... 





If 


Potatoes (or green 


vegetables) 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


••• 


••• 


liu ... 





u 


Cheese ... 


• •« 


• ■« 




• •• 


• •• 


• •ft 


• •• 


• •« 


2 oz. ... 





1 


Butter ... 


• •• 


• •• 




• «• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


1 „ ... 





1^ 


Milk ... 


• •• 


• •• 




• •« 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


2 





Oh 


Sugar ... 


• •• 


• •• 




• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


••• 


• •• 


1 t. ) 






Tea 


• •• 


• •• 




• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• «• 


• •• 


0*., f 





2 


Coffee ... 


• •• 


• •• 




• •« 


• •• 


••• 


• •• 


• •• 


1 „ > 






llalt liquor 


• •• 


• «• 




••• 


• •« 


k»« 


••• 


••• 


1 pint 




X 


2 
4 



QUANTITIES OF FOOD DEMANDED BT THE SYSTEM. 13 

(li) Cheap Eood, buffigiskt to Suffobt an Adult in Good 
Health:^ 

Bread 

Potatoes 
Peas or beans 
Dripping or lard 
Cabbage or greens 
Clicese .M 



••• ••• 





8. 


d. 


1 lb. ... 





2J 


2» «f »•• 





U 


4 oz. ... 





Of 


* %t ••• 





2 


1 lb. ... 





I 


3 oz. ... 





U 



9 

This amount of aliment, if properly managed, may be made "very 
tolerably palatable. The peas or beans should be well boiled, and 
then fried in a part of the dripping with the potatoes and cabbages, 
which will make a savoury mess. Fart of the bread is to be eaten with 
this, dividing the whole into two meals ; and the remainder of the 
bread, with the cheese, makes the third meal. This diet, with a pint 
and a half of malt liquor, which, if brewed at home, need not cost 
more than Id., will keep a man accustomed to such /are in good health ; 
but there can be no doubt that it would disagree with those brought 
up to the nse of meat, fish, and poultry. 

(c) Cheap Food for Children, suited to the Country : — 

V/AtuJcAl ••• ••• *•• ••• ••• ••• ••• « 

Potatoes and greens 

XrUlK ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• •*• • 

Jircs«d"«a« ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• t 

A^ACOu ••■ ••• ••* ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• • 

5 

The oatmeal should be boiled in water for about half an hour, or 
longer if very coarse ; then add the milk, and this will serve for break- 
fast and supper with the treacle. The potatoes and bacon make the 
dinner. 

17. Thb Above Calculations are based npon the absolute amount 
of food which the human machine demands in order to supply its 
wants, and makes no allowance for changes required by the stomach, 
nor for the many other accidental circumstances which will always 
interfere with the cost. But this will show upon what a small quan- 
tity of food health may be supported, and will serve to explain the 
fact, that large families are often maintained npon sums which, by 
others, are considered inadequate to find food for a single individual 
not very far removed from them in social po&\tioT\. IX \a VcvX^ %sXxyK\s\\- 
ing Jiow much is wasted by overfeeding, and \i07i \aiiwVaa»xs^^ '^^ 



8. 


d. 


Of lb. ... 


U 


I „ ... 


1 


1 pint ... 


1 


2 oz. ... 


0} 


2 «. ... 


I 



14 ENGLISH COOKBKY. 



happens that when this practice has long been continued, it is next to 
impossible to leave it off. But though these limited quantities of plain 
food are sufficient to support life and health, yet there can be no 
doubt that, bj proper management and cookery, the same sums, or 
very nearly so, which will purchase their rude materials, will suffice 
to procure much more savoury dishes. Compare a dish of plain boiled 
potatoes and salt with the same articles fried and flavoured only with 
a single herring and a little lard ; and even if they are reduced in 
weight sufficiently to pay for the extras, they will be much more 
palatable, and also more serviceable to the system. This is merely a 
single illustration, but many others might be adduced, depending 
generally upon the gratification of the instinctive desire for nitro- 
genous food. In catering for a man with a strong appetite, it matters 
little what its nature may be, so that either fish, flesh, fowl, milk, 
pulse, or mushroom, will serve to afford nitrogen in large quantities, 
and at the same time act as flavouring matter; but for delicate 
stomachs the effect will vary greatly, and the choice must then be 
confined to such weU-cooked kinds as are found by experience to afford 
this nourishment, while, at the same time, they present a proper sti- 
mulus to the stomach. 



CHAP. IL— ON THE ADVANTAGES OF A PEOPEE PRBPABATION 
OF FOOD FOR THE HUMAN STOMACH. 

Sect. I. — General Hemabks. 

18. The following observations from a recent leading article in the 
Times are so much to the point, that I shall extract them verbatim. 
After referring to the amount of ignorance existing among the class 
of mechanics and servants, in reference to the best modes of procuring 
the common articles of clothing, &c., the editor goes on to say : — " But 
the great, the fearful shortcoming is in the science of cookery. Of it 
they may be said to know nothing ; and we fear in that class of life, 
nothing, or next to nothing, is known of it. Of course, the boys have 
not been taught any thing about it, though why they should not be 
nobody can explain ; and as for the women, only those who go oat to 
service profess to know about it, and in no case is their knowledge 
available for a poor man*s household. If they are engaged in a rich 
family, they live on the best joints, eat succulent roast and fat boiled 
meat^ and waste on their own, and waste still more on the npstairt 



GENERAL REMARKS. 15 



table, every thing which comes to their hand. They have a notion 
that there is a divine virtae in being extravagant and thriftless. 
Thrift and economy they consider mean. Yet a household of this 
kind, with the full swing of the kitchen and the larder, is too often 
the sole training that many a woman gets for the duties of a poor 
man's wife. It should never be forgotten that household service is 
the only school that many a woman ever passes through, and to many 
a woman it is a pernicious school. If she has never learned to save 
in the midst of plenty, she cannot begin to save under the pressure of 
small means. As she has never had reason for turning small things 
to account — ^to make the most of odds and ends — she is often reduced, 
and reduces her husband to a recurring vicissitude of one day's feast- 
ing and three or four days' fasting, with an intermediate day of 
scraps. And she is utterly ignorant of the thousand ways of dressing 
vegetables with a little meat or fish, so as to make the absence of a 
more substantial dish unregretted. And this happens in a million 
homes in a country which has, on the whole, the finest fish, the 
richest and most succulent meats, and produces or imports poultry, 
eggs, and butter to an extent which precludes their excessive dcar- 
ness at any season. And while this happens with us, the French 
peasant, with far lower wages, with fewer materials of food, is making 
savoury dishes and healthy condiments out of the simplest produce of 
the field and the moor. Who can wonder, then, that while an English 
army is half-starved, despite numerous appliances and supplies, a 
French army feeds itself out of the rudest of Nature's gifts ? Miss 
Burdett Coutts and Lord Ashburton, who took the lead which she 
has so well followed, will have earned the gratitude of the country if 
they have done nothing more than set people thinking about the amelio- 
ration of their cookery, and lead high teachers to consider that the art 
of feeding is really a science which affects the well-being of some 
twenty million citizens in England, and may often affect the existence 
of some quarter of a million soldiers abroad ; and our social reformers 
will do well by following her example, and teaching the people of 
England that which, to the majority of them, is still a great secret — 
* What food to buy, and how to cook it.' " No one who is acquainted 
with the workings of our everyday life in England, among the middle 
and lower classes, will refuse his cordial assent to these remarks ; and 
few will be able to call upon their experience for instances of much 
greater knowledge among the mistresses of famVVi^ \^v^T(\%^^«a« 
It is true, that almost every housekeeper knovra Nv\iBX tel^«.\ «»«x%^ %!s^ 



1 6 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



how many pounds she consumes per week, and also the price of 
bread, and the number of quartern loaves, which she pays for at 
certain periods ; but she does not know the amount of nourishment 
required by the younger and older members of her family respectively, 
nor the best kinds of food for each, nor even the best modes of 
dressing what she fixes upon in her blind and careless choice. It is 
with the last of these subjects that we Iiave now to deal, and conse- 
quently to examine into the relative advantages of — 1st, the proper ' 
keeping of food; 2nd, roasting and baking ; 3rd, boiling; 4thf frying ana 
broiling ; 5th, stewing ; 6th, soup-making ; besides the art and advan- 
tages of preparing what are called made-dishes^ sauces, and also pastry, 
puddings, and other sweets. Prior to these divisions, however, it will 
be better to dilate at some length upon the duties of the cook in this 
department. 

19. The Gband PiaNCiPLBS op Economical Cookery are uni- 
versally the same, however they may fall short in practice of ideal 
perfection. They are — 1st, To render food, as afforded by nature, more 
digestible by art, 2nd, To avoid, as far as possible, any waste of 
materials in the operation, 3rd, To combine with the most nourishing and 
digestible kinds of food those which shall render them grateful to the palate, 
4tli, To take care and please the senses of sight and smell, as well as those of 
taste. And 5th, To avoid all needless expense in carrying out the above 
operations. 

Sect. 2. — The Cook, and her General Utensils. 

20. Every cook has constantly to deal with four different elements 
of calculation, three of which are tolerably constant, and therefore to 
be depended on, while the fourth is unfortunately somewhat change- 
able. The first or constant elements are time, quantity, and quality; 
the second being her own organ of taste and that of her employers, 

21. Time is truly a certain and sure element, always to be depended 
on as a severe but just master. To the punctual observer of his laws 
he accords his favours without measure; and, on the other hand, 
those who break them are as surely punished by a constant and ever- 
recurring series of what they sometimes fancy to be misfortunes. As 
Napoleon could always manage to assemble his troops on a given spot 
at a given time, from whatever distance they might have been drawn j 
60 the cook, with a good head for her business, can contrive that all 
her dishes shall be ready at the same hour, by properly calculating the 
time they will take to dress, a|id commencing each in turn according 



THE COOK AHD HEB UTENSILS. 17 

to ifB reqairements in point of cookeiy. If this is neglected, one diah 
hBB to wait for another, and is, therefore, more or less injured bj 
dela^ ; and the dinner is postponed so loag that the tempers of those 
who pifftake of it are by no means in a condition to allow them to 
joc^ inpartiallj of its pretensions to a correct preparation. Fonctu- 
aHty, therefore, is the first tiling to be inculcated ; and this implies a 
proper grounding in the elementarj principles of cookery, so as to be 
ftirare, without trouble and reference to books, of the time which every 
tttk^ requires. If the cook has to look erery day for these partico* 
lars, she will lose time when asost precious ; but still, if she has not 
the knowledge, she cui oflly gain it by consulting an authority of scmie 
kind ; and if she is, as she ought to be, a <fuick reader, she may soon 
make herself independent cm this score. In e^eiy case there should 
be a clock in the kitchen, or within sight of the cook ; and when she 
iff not thoroughly experienced, she should hare the aid of a table <A 
the times required for the cookeiy of the more ordinary articles hung 
up neiff her fireplace ; which, if she cannot herself write in snfiicienitly 
legible characters, should be written by master or mistress. 

22. QuAHTiTT comes next to time in importance; and it is an ele» 
meni still more frequently neglected by those who consider themselTes 
professed cooks. Few of these people we^ or measure the ingre- 
dients which they use, but compound their dishes by '^ rule of thumK** 
Thi» is in some cases of little consequence ; but for young cooks at all 
events it is a rery foc^isfa plan, since it so often leads to a failure ; 
whilst for old ones it ensures an early destruction of their organ ai 
taste, which ought to be husbanded with the greatest care. This is 
obrionsly the result, because if dishes are made in the careless way to 
which I haye alluded, they must be tasted again and again, imtil they 
^tisfy the palate of the cook ; while, if they are pr^ared from ingre- 
dients of accurately known measure or weight, they will so seldom 
rary that it is hardly necessary to taste tiiem at all, or at all events 
only once. From constant tasting the palled organ of ta^te becomes 
insensible to all but rery strong flayoiirs, and the consequence is that 
dishes are sent to table which call forth complaints from the heads of 
the house ; and these complaints being conveyed to a servant who has 
no certain guide in the shape of an accurate receipt, she is unable to 
rectify her mistake, and on the next attempt perhaps falls into the 
opposite error. Whenever, therefore, a cook works by any receipt not 
her own, she should follow it closely for her own 8aV&^ ox \^ ^<^ t-wv 
improve upon it, letter do so ; bat then kther »et down thft exact xjarVv 



1 S B^GLISH COOKERY. 



ti-i ^*- m O.f crwinnl. In this war she will always have a certam 
p:;: le : ar.d. though she may lose a few minutes a day in measoriDg 
A-i w ■• -bin'', vet she mav console herself that her hand will last much 
1 >n j/r than her pa: ate, and that, by the regular adoption of the prae- 
ticc, she will he able to fnlnl her duties for many years longer than she 
wou. 1 uo if she drew upon her delicate nerres of taste every ten 
Tni:iu:o«. Perhaps she will say that she does not intend to spend all 
her life roasting herselC but that she hopes some day to be the mis- 
tress of a family. If such is her intention, and she is sure of canying 
it nut, this arjrument will not apply ; but even then I should strongly 
recommend her to wait until she has secured a competency, and, in 
waiting, to take care of her stomach; for no one is more miserably 
situatovl than a cook s« accustomed to rich food that she cannot live 
upon plain dishes, and yet cannot pay for any thing else. In CTeiy 
way, therefore, ybr her own salt, the cook should study quantity, and 
carry out her knowledge in practice ; while, for the sake of her master 
and mistress, she can scarcely ever pass an hour' without kaying 
recourse to her weights and scales. These must, of course, be pro- 
>ided for her; and if they arc to be used as here adrised, they must be 
of the kind shown at Jig. 109, which should always be on a shelf or 
table ready for use. If the cook has to take out a pair of scales from 
a closet or drawer, and set them up, before weighing any article, there 
can be no wonder that she avoids the trouble. The cost of these 
scales is from 16s. to 25s., but they soon pay for themselves; and as 
they weigh any thing from one quarter of an ounce to twenty pounds, 
they serve for every purpose. We all know perfectly well the rudest 
kind of scales may be made to answer the same purpose, but it will be 
found that, without making the thing easy, a cook will always shirk this 
part of her duty ; and indeed in every case with servants, unless they 
have the best tools which can be supplied, they are almost certain to 
excuse their neglect by laying the fault upon those who will not give 
them the " proper things " for their business. The various weights 
and measures will be found given at the end of this volume. 

23. With Reqabd to Quality, the cook has less to do than with 
the other elements concerned, unless she is also in the habit of going 
to market. Still, even when she does not purchase the things required 
in the kitchen, she will be often called upon for her opinion of their 
quality ; and she should then be able to give it to her mistress without 
hesitation. This, however, requires considerable experience; and if 
she has not had it, she cannot be expected to be able to guide when 



THE COOK AND HE& UTEKSTLS. 19 

she herself requires a leader. In the Ecoiu)mical Housekeeper &e cook, 
as well as the mistress, will however find ample directions for instmct- 
ing herself in what is required ; but, nevertheless, practice is here of 
far more importance than the best precepts in the worid. 

24. As A Nice Sensb of Taste Is the great secret of the first-rate 
cook, when joined to the observance of the three elements of success 
already alluded to, so it should be most carefully educated and prized. 
I have already mentioned that this sense is easily palled or dulled by 
constantly calling upon it, and that for this reason it should be as 
seldom taxed as possible. It is well known that even the best judge 
fails to distinguish port-wine from sherry after a dozen successive 
tastes of them indiscriminately, when blindfolded and without the 
sense of smell to aid him. This, therefore, shows how readily the 
palate is confused, and how necessary it is to husband its powers. 
But besides this abuse of the sense of taste from satiety, there is also 
the fact that the taste of every individual is suffering a change, so that 
we like this year what was perhaps distasteful a few years ago. 
Hence the cook requires to consider, when she is drawing upon her 
own resources, not only whether her concoction is pleasant to herself, hut 
whether it will please her employers. She must recollect that her organ 
and their organs are liable to change in the regular course of eventtr, 
and dependent also upon the seasons, upon health, and sometimes 
upon the caprice of fashion. A constant necessity, therefore, exists 
for ascertaining the degree of success of her efforts from day to day, 
and this can only be done either by means of the mistress or of her 
fellow-servant waiting at table. If the cook can depend upon the 
latter, the intelligence will be more regularly conveyed ; and not only 
this, but the servant waiting can detect the general success or failure 
of any dish or dishes with even more certainty than the mistress her- 
self, because the latter is influenced by her own palate in judging of 
others, while the servant is not. It is obvious that a dish may be liked 
by all but the mistress, yet it would be condemned by the single 
dissentient if she were the sole organ of communication with the cook, 
and in spite of the fact that, if she were aware of her mistake, she 
would be the last to wish the change made ; for I believe most fully, 
that in nine cases out of ten the mistress of a family willingly sacri- 
fices her own taste to that of the other members, whether husbaojdlor 
children. Let every cook, therefore, while in health, take. card to 
avoid spoiling her taste by over-use ; let her also do t^VVsv^'^ V^sj*^'^ 
to keep in health, which is absolutely essential to pT^%^XH^j^^Ei^<$s!@^ 



20 ENOLISn COOKERY. 



and lastly, let her on all occasions remember that she is preparing bet 
dishes for a variable and nncertafn set of palates, and trim her sails 
accordingly, by looking ont ahead for ercry change in their likes and 
dislikes. 

25. Cleanlinsss Ain> Pttorrft VKinriLATioif, as weli A^LiGHirirG, 
are no less important than the abore essentials; but they merely 
require to be mentioned in order to secvrc attention. With regud to 
the first of them, it will always be inculcated by the employers fos 
their own sakes ; but it is no less advisable for the sake of the cook, 
who, if she neglects it, will never be able to send her more delicate 
things to table looking well, however palatable they may be ; and ai 
the eye very often leads the palate, she will disgnst the latter at oDeei 
With regard to ventilation and lighting, it is manifest that, if the 
cook is oppreMed with the heat and steam arising from the chief scene 
of her labours, her bodily health will suffer, as well as her temper ; 
and we all know by sad experience how completely a loss of the last- 
mentioned faculty ensures the defeat of the best concerted plans. All 
this, however, is fully dilated upon in the next page. With regard 
to lighting also, a strong light is essential to some departments of 
cookery, and should always be within the reach of the cook ; but for 
many it is by no means necessary, and only adds, when artificial, to 
the otherwise sufficiently-high temperature of the kitchen., 

26. The Coca's Book is a weekly account kept by her, iu smaH 
ruled pages, of her disbursements for pot-herbs, or other petty and 
frequently*recurring items, for which the mistress will not always like 
to be disturbed. In the country, where there is no shop at hand ready 
to supply these demands, no such book is generally kept ; but in towns 
it is almost a necessity, though the more it is confined in its opera^ 
tions the better for the pocket of the employer. In many even small 
establishments this book extends to butter, milk, cheese, and green- 
grocery ; but it is far better to let these articles be supplied from some 
neighbouring shopkeeper fixed on by the mistress, and to let him send 
in his bill weekly, to be paid by her. When this is done, there remain 
very few things indeed which will require a book, for even the herbs 
should be included in the green-grocer's weekly bill; and therefore, 
in reality, this book, so much dreaded by mistresses, may be dispensed 
with altogether if they will only take care to call in their bills weekly, 
and pay them themselves, 

27. A Grease-pot ani> Wash-tub are allowed in many families 
AS the j)erquisites of the cook ; the consequences often being that a 



THE COOK AND HFK UTENSILS. 21 



very large proportion of good dripping is put into the fonner, and 
plentj of serviceable vegetables and meat also into the latter. It 
seenouB like plajing a very selfish part to prevent the cook from selling 
what would otherwise be wasted, and therefore, if on trial any in- 
dividual is found to be trustworthy, the practice may be allowed with« 
out loss ; but in all cases it is better in engaging a cook to arrange 
with her by stipulating against either the one or the o^er, leaving tht 
door open for a future relaxation of the rule in case of good conduct. 
But even then I believe the temptation almost too great, and that very 
few servants are to be trusted with this discretionary power when their 
own interest clashes with that of their employers. There are always, 
in the summer, pieces of meat which may be reclaimed from " going " 
by care and management, but which may also be as easily condemned 
to the wa^i-tub ; and this is die first step in a downward course, soon 
followed, in many cases, hy the constant and regular sacrifice of 
« broken bread," good bones capable of making plenty of stock, and 
cold potatoes. If, therefore, there is the money to spare, it is better 
to fix an extra sum for the cook, and give away these doubtful articles 
to the poor; and if, on the other hand, rigid economy demands a 
stricter supervision, I am quite sure that no grease-pot or wash-tub 
ought to be allowed. 

SB. Tub Kitchen is usually included within the area of the house, 
though in country houses the contrary is often the case, and with the 
advanta^ of avoiding the smell of cooking. But I am not now abouj: 
to describe the locality of this department, but rather the fittings 
which are required in order to place the cook in a condition to perform 
her dnties with advantage to herself and her mistress. It is an old 
adage, that '* bad workmen complain of their tools ; " and in tliis case 
it is applicable, inasmuch as a bad cook is never satisfied with her 
kitchen amuigements, however good they may be. But, on the other 
hand, a good cook will scarcely be able to do justice to her powers 
unless she is allowed to have a proper and su^Scient kitchen-range, 
with the other requisites presently to be detailed. Light in the 
kitchen, both by day and ni^t, is one very important item that 
should always be attended to, and also a proper ventilation. If the 
cook is half suffocated she cannot possibly do her work properly; and 
her stomach will be so upset, to say nothing of her temper, that she 
will be incapable of tasting and seasoning her dishes to suit the 
palates of her employers. Air, therefore, should \i^ %\3L^^\<t^ Vj *OQfe 
kind of valve known as Sheringham's Ta\ye,vj\i\Oa.«tto^X%«^'t'w>JGsiss^ 



22 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



a draught. Arnott's yalve may also be introduced with advantage, 
especially with a close grate, as in this there is little ventilation up 
the chimney, and the only escape for the foul air is through the fire 
itself. The comparative economy of coal and gas is fully described in 
** The Housekeeper,** to which the reader is referred for its particulars. 
If gas is preferred, it will be necessary to fix the proper apparatus 
instead of the usual cooking grate. An immense variety of these last 
is now made by the diff*erent ironmongers, without much real or 
apparent advantage in any one over the rest. The principal points of 
diff*erence are these, viz. — 1st, Open fires, called kitchen-ranges, with 
oven and boiler; for the three sizes of those suited to difierent 
families, see Jigs. 67, 69, and 70. 2ndly, Cooking stoves, being closed 
or nearly closed fireplaces (fig. 68), with hot plate (a), oven (b), 
boiler and hot closet (c) ; also steam kettles (p p p) for vegetables, 
and a large steam closet (q) for airing linen, warming dishes, &c.; £, 
a slide for regulating the fire. This is a very complete apparatus, and 
is sold by Burton of Oxford-street, and by Deane and Dray, as well 
as other makers, at the prices annexed to this section. !For large 
families this is a very economical stove, and a moderate fire will serve 
for a very large dinner ; but it will not send roast meat to table to suit 
the palate of a gourmandj nor will it compete in economy with a 
cottage range when wanted for a small family. 3rdly, Gas Stoves, 
which certainly perform their task very well, and from the ventilation 
they afford they roast to a turn; but, as I have before remarked, 
scarcely economically in this department, though, as a whole, they may 
perliaps compete with coal fires. Their forms are given in Jig. 72, in 
which A represents a complete apparatus, intended to bake and roast 
at the same time in the interior, and to steam on the top ; b is similai 
in all respects, only that it will not both roast and bake at the same 
time, having only one oven. But by means of slides arranging the 
air-draught it will do either as desired ; o is a very convenient little 
grate, which may be used either with coal or gas, the former being more 
suited to the winter when warmth is wanted for the kitchen, whilst the 
latter, if used in the summer, keeps the kitchen cool and comfortable. 
29. A Hot Plate will be wanted for all kitchens where cooking in 
any degree of refinement is carried on ; in close stoves it is generally 
heated by steam, as shown in Jig, 68; or by gas, as in Jig. 72 a. 
When, however, there is an open kitchen-range, a separate hot plate 
is heated by a distinct little stove, and is set in any convenient situa- 
tion (see^. 67). 



THE COOK AND HEB T7TENSILS. 83 



SO. A SxoKS-JACK, as shown in fig, 67, is bj many considered an 
indispensable adjunct to the kitchen, while others regard it with 
abhorrence, on account of the noise which it often makes in its re- 
volutions. 

It consists of a circular fan fixed in the chimney flue, about four or 
five feet abovQ the mantelpiece, which is made to revolve by the 
smoke, or rather by the heated air as it ascends. Its spindle is con- 
nected with the horizontal rod shown in the figure, over the shelf, by 
simple clockworic machinery, and this again works the spit by means 
of the chain there shown. Altogether it is a very simple and efficient 
apparatus for turning the spit, and when the flue can be constructed 
of a size 14 inches each way, it is the best which can be selected ; but 
in small houses the flues are often limited to 9 inches in one direction, 
and from them the smoke-jack must be excluded for that reason, its 
place being supplied by the bottle-jack. 

31. Drbsserb and Closets are required by the cook for her plates 
and dishes, as well as for her spice-boxes, jars, &c., and should always 
be provided for her ; they are invariably made of wood, either oak or 
painted deaL Their construction is so simple that they will not 
require any description here ; and the cost only need be given in the 
annexed table of kitchen fittings, which consists of four separate sets, 
proportioned to the four houses alluded to at page 4. 

FSIGB OF KlTCHEM FiTTINGB. — ^ESTDiATB No. 1. 

Full-sized kitchen-range, complete, with oven and boiler, sliding- 
cheek, and wrought-iron bars. See^^. 67. 



ft. in. 




















£ s. 




£& 


4 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


«• 


••• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


412 


to 


5 10 


4 4 


• •• 


• •« 


• •• 


•«• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• «• 


**• 


.•• 


6 6 


4 « 


• •• 


• *• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• ** 


• •• 


• •• 


... 


7 


S 


••• 


••• 


• •• 


••• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


♦•» 


7 17 



Bmoke*jack complete, with chain, pnlleys, spits, &c, wrought-iron main 

wheel, with door and frame for chimney £6 lU 

If outside movement 13 

Hot plate, firom ... •., £2 to 5 

Ot^ economic ventilating kitchen range (see^^. 68), with hot plate 
for boiling saucepans, frying, &c. ; large oven for pastry, joints, bread, 
&c. ; hot closet for keeping dinners warm, plates, dishes, &c. ; sliding 
front to fire, to act as a blower, or for keeping the heat from the cook 
when stewing or preserving ; steam kettles for vegetables, &c. ; and a 
large steam closet for airing linen, &c 



24 EVGUSH COOKERY. 



X. n 


d. 


IS 10 





IS 





18 10 





18 





19 10 





21 





22 10 





24 





25 






If with wron^t iron boilers, panelled coverings, roller front, and 

roller slide oren, b«t not indoilifig steaai work, — 
ft. tn. 

4 " ••• ••• •*• ••• ••• ••* ••• ••■ ••• ••< 

« o ••• ••• ••• •«• ••• ••• ••• •«• ••• ••■ 

» O A*« ••• ••« «•• ••* ••• ••• ••• •*• »•• 

4 V ••• ••• ••• ••• «•• *•• •mm ••• ••« •*• 

O V ••• ••• ••• ••* ••• ••• ••• ••• *•• ••• 

9 ••• ••• «*• ••• *•• «•• m^m ••• ••• ••• 

O O ««• ••• •»• ••• ••• *•• «•• ••*• ••« •• 

V ftf ••• ••• 9«« ••« ••• ••« ••• •«« «•• ««a 

V V ••• ••• «•« <*«» ••• •*• ••• ••• ••• ••« 

Steam closet, with eopper bottom : 24 inches wide, jC4 ; 30 inches 
ditto, £5, 

Steam kettles, with pipes, tap, valre, 4bc. : first kettle, £3 ; each 
additional kettle, dOs. 

Fixing grates about 6s. per foot in width. The expense of the 
supply-cistern and pipes depends npon the locality, and is not included 
in the above estimate. 

£ 8. £ B. 

Dresser i5 to SO 

'v^lOScCo •«• ••• ... ■•«• *•• «•• ••• -•*• 4e a) to Xv V 

Hangiug-flap and books ... » ^ 1 lo 2 

ESTEMJiTB No. 2. 

Kitchen-range, plan as before, but of reduced size and price, viz. i-^ 
ft in. £&.£%. 

o 4 ••• ••• •«« «•• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 4 o \0 4 i.7 

3 O ••• ••• ••• •«« ••• ••• ••• ••• •«• 4 / *v O V 

O •/ ••• ••• •«• ••• ••■ ••• ••• ••• ••• 4 XX lO O 4 

8inoke*)MCk ... .^ •» 6 to 6 

XIO^ {lltlL6 ••• ••• ••• ««• *•• ••«• ••• ••• *•• ••• Z V 

Or, economic ventilating kitchen-range, made on the same principle 
as that above described, with copper boilers, but without the hot 
closet under the oven, or roller oven shelves, — 

ft. in. £ 8. d. 

V V ••• ••• ••• ••• ••« ••• ••• mmm ••• 999 7 Xv V 

O O ••• *•• ••• ••« ••• ••• *• ••• ••• ••• O O V 

O O 9-99 ••• *•• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• V I ll 

Ov ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• • ••• • • • «*« » • » il X4 U 

Dresserof painted deal £3 to 5 

\yXOBt5l>8 ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• *•• ••• Jws 10 V V V 

Hanglng-flaPf hooks, &c 1 G 

Estimate No. 3. 

Medium-sized kitchen-range (stejig, 69), with oven and boiler : — 
ft. in. £ & £ 8. 

V ... ... .», ,«, ... ,,, ,,, .., ... 4 to 4 10 

■* V ••• ... «.. ra. .•«' «•• >.. a>t «.. 4 S to '4 18 
Dresser ... ... ... ... 2 to 3 

\^X0Scl8, wC. .•• .%« ... ... ... «.a ••-I •«. ••• O V 



I 



THE COOK AKD HEE UTZK8IL8. Si 



Estimate Xo. 4. 

Ck>ttage range (Jig, 70), with OTen end cmst-iroD boiler, and withont 
sliding cheek, — 

ft. In £ «. «. 

m ^ «•• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••« 2 

m 4} »•• •«• ••« •*• ••• ••« ••• ••• ••• ••« S2w 

m Jll/ •«• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 2 O O 

V O ••« ••• ••• «•• ••• ••• .«0# «•• #*• «^» X 7 w 

jLtTcbsCs •«• ••• A«« «■■ ••• •#• ••• •»• ••• ••• sou 

V/iO0C*^ wC» w* »•• ••• •*• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• m XO V 

EsTULiTB No. 5«— Foa Oab Stoves. 

Cast-iron (roasting, baking, boinng, and steaming) ftall tise ... 98 # 4> 

Ditto ditto am«ll«ta ». ic V 

Ditto ditto third size, Fig. Ti, B. ... 8 

Ditto Willi open fire also Flf. fS. C . • • • 

Wronght-iron anutll. Fig. 7S, li. .«. S JO • 

82. The Back-Kitcben or SctrLLSirr, when it ig used for brewing 

or washing, as well as for the ordinary kitchen purposes, should 

always be external to the house if possible, in order that the steam 

may escape through the roof. For the water a sink is required, 

¥rhich consists of a flat platform of tiles or bricks, about three or fonr 

feet wide, by two feet six inches, with a ^igltfly raised and rounded 

edge of oak-quartering. This communicates with a drain by jneani 

of a bell-trap, over which should be a water*oock if there is a dstem ; 

and when there is a supply of hot water, that also should be laid oo. 

If the house is self-dependent for its water supply, a pump of each 

sort is generally fixed in the back-kitchen, one of which draws up the 

spring water from the well, and the other from the soft-water cistern. 

Besides these pumps, thei'e are usually in well-appointed houses a 

copper and an open fireplace, to be used as an extra ^t^ when large 

dinner parties are given, and when, for instance, the close stove is 

fixed in the kitchen, in which roasting is not capable of being carried 

on to that degree of perfection which is then desired. Galvanized 

iron boilers are sometimes set instead of coppers, but they are liable to 

"iron-mould" linen boiled in them, and they are therefore objected 

to. In other respects — that is, for brevring or for cooking — this kind 

of iron is quite equal if not superior to copper, as it is not liable to be 

dissolved by acids like copper; or, if acted on, it is not injurious to 

tbe system, but rather advantageous. Tbe list of back-kitchen fittinps, 

therefore, will stand as under, with the prices accordii^g Vi \\i^ 'tt^N.^t^ 

of the manage 2-^ 



1st 


2nd. 


Srd. 


4ttL 




£8. 


£ 8. 


£8. 


£a. 


■>* 


610 


415 


810 


210 


■Ti 


4 10 


810 


210 


2 




610 


410 


810 


210 


] 


410 


215 


110 


1 


•! 


210 


2 


110 


1 


■■ 



26 ENGLISH OOOEERT. 

BAOK'lvcrcHBir FCmKoa. 

Sink with hot and cold water cocks, bell-trap, Ac 

Well pump 

Soft water forclnff-pump 

Washing copper or iron boiler, with fiimnce grate, 

set complete 

I laie racK •*• ••• ••• ••* ••* ••• 

33. The Knife and Shoe House is a small back office in which 
boots and shoes are cleaned ; and, where a rotary knife-cleaner is not 
used, a knife-board is fixed for cleaning knives with brick-dnst. In 
most houses, even where the knife-deaner is used, such a board is 
wanted in addition, for the purpose of cleaning common kitchen knires 
when thej are stained with vinegar, &c., or for taking out accidental 
deep stains in the best knives. The cost of this board is onlj a few 
shillings, say 5s. to 6s. 

34. A DusT-HoLE is also required in all houses to receive the dust 
and ashes from the house ; and in those families where economy is 
studied, provision is made for the proper sifting or " riddling •* of these 
ashes, by which the cinders are reserved for future use. The circular 
sieve, with a wire bottom, is a very rude instrument for this purpose ; 
and as, in using it, the housemaid must necessarily be covered with 
dust, the consequence is, that the ashes are very commonly put away 
without undergoing this necessary operation. Next to this in utility 
comes the large and simple riddling machine, which is merely a wooden 
framed covering to the dust-hole, but having a wire bottom and a 
handle, by which it may be shaken, while the housemaid stands at 
a distance. Here, again, however, she is somewhat incommoded, but 
not so much so as with the hand-sifter. Mr. Kent, the inventor of 
the rotary knife-cleaner, has patented a Cindeb Sifter also on the 
rotary principle, which does away with all the housemaid's objections ; 
and, what is still better, compels the adoption of the process, because 
by no other means can the ashes be placed in the dust-hole. Its opera- 
tion is thus most certain and effective. The unsifted cinders are 
thrown into the upper part of the machine ; a few turns of the handle 
separate the ashes firom the cinders in the most perfect manner, with- 
out the least dust or dirt escaping from the sifter ; the refuse falls into 
a moveable box, and the cinders are actually deposited in the coal- 
scuttle without the possibility of loss, or mixing with the ashes. Il 
is sold at 829, Strand. In houses limited for yard room, this machine 
is of great service in preventing dust and smell, whilst the whole box 



THE COOK USTD HER UTENSILS. 27 

can be removed to the dust-cart and emptied there. In country 
houses the dust-hole is generally of considerable size, and often com- 
municates with an open cesspool, being intended to absorb the con- 
tents as they are discharged into it. This is better than the keeping 
the two apart, and at the same time exposed to the air ; but it is by no 
means a healthy plan, and is not to be recommended. The cesspool 
is easily covered in, and may be readily emptied when necessary, by 
removing a stone set in a wooden or iron frame. 

Pbicbs of Dust-bins and SiFrE]t& 

Dtut-bin with common sifter. 
Wooden bin ,,, £i lo 

DUlcT ••• ... ••• ... ... ... ... ... ««a »a, o 

115 
JHist-bin with sifting cover. 

ys ooQcn om ... ... ... ... •.» ... «•• 9«« ^^^ £\ 10 

Sifter with handle ,., i $ 

215 
KenCs patent cinder sifter and dust-bin. 

Complete, Ist size £3 8 

Ditto, 2nd ditto 4 4 

Coal cellars should be built in the most convenient situation for 
access both from without and from within ; and they should, if possible, 
be of such dimensions as to contain from six months' to a year's con- 
sumption, because coal is almost always far cheaper in summer than 
during the winter season, and therefore a stock should be laid in. It 
is a good plan to divide this space into separate sections, so that each 
part shall be cleared off, leaving no small coal, before the next is com- 
menced. 

85. Thb Labder, which is the place set apart for keeping fresh 
provisions in, and also, in most cases, for the salting of pork, beef, &c.» 
should be placed where it can have a thorough draught, and where it 
is sheltered from the sun. A northern aspect is therefore the most 
suitable, or, next to that, an easterly one. The thorough draught 
cannot always be procured directly ; but if it cannot in that way, a 
large air-drain may be carried under the floor to the opposite side of 
the boose, where a grating may be fixed, and thus a free draught may 
be obtained. Underground larders are seldom efficient for the keeping 
of meat, because this perfect draught is not attainable except in windy 
weather, when there is little difficulty in effecting its preservation ; 
but in moist and muggy weather the air is quite stagnant, m \\ia\iwe»^- 
ment stoiy of a town house, and consequently, ihougji toVfct«JoVj <iq^ 



23 ENGLISH COOKEBT. 



the air is not i^pidly changed, and put-refaction goes on without let « 
hindrance. To fit up a larder for a small honse merely reqnireB « omi 
bcr of deal sbelres and a dooi^ of which the panels are replaeed I 
plates of perforated zinc, of a pattern jufficientlj close to prereat til 
entrance of (lies, and yet large enough to admit tiie air freely. ¥rta 
there is also a window, it should in like manner be guarded by limilt 
sheets of zinc. 

36. The Utensils required for the cookery of each department, wi 
be fully described under the different lieads of Boasting, Baki]i( 
Boiling, Stewing, &c. 



CHAP. Iir.— THE PREPARATION OF FOOD BY KEEPING. 

Sect. 1. — General Remabks. 

.^6. A Great many Articles of Food are the better for keeping 
longer or shorter time, varying, acx^ording to their nature, to the stat 
of the weather, and to the place where they are kept. Among th 
chief of these are — butcher's meat, venison, game, some kinds o 
poultry, and a few kinds of fish. Even some vegetables ace th 
better for a few hours' keeping after they are brought in from At 
gai'den, such as young potatoes and Jerusalem artichokes ; but this i 
an exception to the general rule, whicb enforces the necessity o 
dressing vegetables as soon as possible after they are gathered. Q] 
the other hand, many fruits require keeping for some time, such « 
apples, and pears of the kinds called keepers, medlars, and aoibl 
others. The best mode, therefore, of keeping these several article 
will here be given. 

Sect. 2. — ^Essentials for Keeping. 

87. The Lardbr has been described at page 27 ; and when such i 
room is well situated, meat, &c., may be kept to great advantage 
But in many cases, especially in towns, this cannot be managed, ant 
all that can be devoted to the purpose is a small box of wood wit! 
perforated zinc sides, and called a '' safe." This is often plaeed in f 
small room or doset, perhaps adjoining the kitchen ; and then it is no 
surprising that meat becomes putrid, in warm weather, the -day aftei 
it comes from the butdier. When there is a back-yard, this safe ma] 
often be suspended there with advantage during the part of the dag 
when the sun is shaded off by the surrounding buildings { or pe^ 



PBEPARATIOK OF POOD BY KEEPIXa. 29 

manentlj, if it is entirelj excluded. Dry heat is not so injarioas an 
the moist, jet warm, atmosphere, which always prevails in nnder- 
gnmnd kitchens ; and eyen a much higher temperature, if dry, will do 
leSff mischief than one comparalively cool, but moist; that is to say, if 
the latter is abore 60 or 70 degrees Fahrenheit, for below that point 
decomposition does not go on with any degree of rapidity. It mnsf 
be remembered, that alnx>st all kinds of animal food intended for 
roasting require a certain amount of decomposition to make them 
tender, the only exception being those which are, in the first place, 
snfSciently so when quite fre^ ; and, in the second, are so prone to 
rapid decomposition, that they are not to be kept without great risk : 
such are teal and some kinds of poultry, which in moderately cool 
weather will not keep more fhan a few days, and in summer are not 
always to be depended on for twenty-four hours. For this reason, 
in frosty weather meat may be kept for an indefinite time without 
altering its condition ; and in long frosts there is scarcely a possibility 
of getting it into a state fit for the spit. Bence it is always desirable 
to maintain in the larder a temperature considerably above the freez- 
nig point, and below 50, or at all events 60 degrees, with a good 
ctirrent of air free from moisture. 

Sect. 3. — Dibegtions tob Ejeepdig. 

3S. Whenever these conditions can be obtained, meat, th« produce 
of mature animals, maybe kept with advantage, if it is constantly 
Watched snd protected from the fiies, for a period of time varying, 
according to the weather, from a few days to three weeks. It must 
also be kept dry^ by wiping the moist parts every night and morning, 
taking care to separate all the crevices and dry them to the bottom. 
Beyond the above time no meat improves by keeping, if it is not 
frozen ; but in that case nearly the whole period during which it has 
been in that state must be deducted, and the time calculated indepen- 
dently of it. There appear to be two kiirds of decomposition in ani- 
mal substances, which are quite distinct from each other, and not 
always depending upon the state of the atmosphere. In the one kind, 
the change begins in the parts in contact with the air, especially in 
those which are the most moist. From these it gradually extends to 
the deeper parts ; but so slowly, that very often the surface is quite 
putrid, and greenish-brown in colour, while the parts round the bone 
are as sweet as ever, and maintain their original ted. TiYAa \ft %i Xxxv^ 
oxygenation, and Is the result of keeping healthy aiiVmaV ^\j\i«X«OL^^^ 



30 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



^ 



in a good and proper current of dry air. But in the other kind of . 
decomposition, either the whole mass changes together, or the deep .^ 
parts go first, and gradually extend their influence to the sarfacep 
This is clearly not the result of a union with a fresh supply of oxygen, 
because that gas would surely affect the surface more than the interior; 
hut it appears to be a new arrangement of the elements already exist- 
ing in the substance, by which ammonia, and some others of the 
changeable organic compounds, are evolved. It generally, but not 
always, occurs in hot and thundery weather, but always with the 
thermometer above 60 degrees ; there is almost always a crackling 
feel given to the hand in pressing meat when in this state, depending 
upon the bubbles of gas confined within its meshes ; and the smell is 
of a peculiarly nauseous kind, accompanied with a pungent impression 
upon the mucous membrane of the nose, which is not very agreeable. 
When meat is in this state it is very un\\rholesome, and is even nnfit 
for pigs or dogs. It should, therefore, be buried deeply beneath the 
surface, out of all risk of affecting the health of the neighbouring 
inhabitants. 

39. When Frozen Meat, Poultry, or Fish are to be dressed, they 
should be gradually thawed through their whole substance, either by 
placing them in a warm kitchen for some hours, or by immersing them 
in lukewarm water, and keeping it at that temperature by the addition 
of more warm water as the frozen meat cools it. Meat and ponltiy . 
are better warmed in air, because the water takes out a certain portion 
of their juices ; but fish will be more easily thawed in water, and with- 
out loss of flavour or substance. 

40. Before Dressing Meat and Poultry which have been hung 
for any length of time, they should be washed with a little strong salt 
and water; and if any parts of the former are much decomposed, 
which may be known by their high scent, a little strong distilled 
vinegar should be rubbed into them, and then, after remaining on the 
surface for a few minutes, it may be washed off with salt and water 
Game maybe treated in the same way; but even without this pre- 
caution it is astonishing how the act of roasting restores the condition' 
of this kind of food. Many people who cat their game with a relish, 
considering it exactly " kept to a day," would turn from it with dis- 
gust if they saw it when preparing for the spit ; and therefore the 
young cook must be careful how she rejects any of these delicate kinds 
of fare as " too far gone," tmless she has the authority of some one 
competent to judge. 



PBEPABATIOK OF FOOD BT KEEPIXa 31 

41. Thb Cook should watch most carefullj all the meat and game 
nnder her care, and inform her mistress as soon as she sees the slightest 
sign by which she may consider it is approaching the proper termina- 
tion of keeping. Batcher^s meat shows its state bj the smell, by the 
touch, and by the look. The slightest taint in warm weather is enough 
to put the cook on her guard, and especially if the meat begins to feel 
tender on pressure ; if it is turning green on the surface, also, she must 
consider it as a yery sure sign ; and especially if, at the same time, the 
stifiness of the joint is giying way, or bending. Thus, a little practice, 
with attention to these signs, will soon render her expert, and she may 
always at first be carefid to err on the safe side. In deciding upon the 
time to keep game, some people hong the feathered kinds up by their 
tails, and consider they are fit to dress as soon as they drop, and leave 
their tails behind them. For those who like game '* rather high," 
this is not a bad test in the cool weather of autumn ; but in the early 
part of the season, the feathers adhere too long to give this rule any 
value, or rather it may be said that, if adhered to, it will cause the 
spoiling of many brace of grouse and partridges, which will seldom 
bear much keeping until after the middle of October. 

42. Fish will sometimes be the better for a day's keeping, or, in 
cool weather, even two days will not injure its flavour. It should, 
however, always be kept in a cool place ; and it may generally be 
hung up with advantage, rather than to deposit it on the floor, as is 
generally done. If, however, it is of a kind which would be injured 
by becoming dry — ^as, for instance, turbot — ^the latter place is the best; 
but cod-fish and haddock are better suspended. Ice will always keep 
fish for an indefinite time, if such is desired ; but when it is of a kind 
which is the better for keeping, the ice will suspend the good efiects 
of that operation, and should not therefore be had recourse to longer 
than necessary. 

43. When Meat, Poultry, ob Game is evidently in a state which 
will not allow it to be kept until the time when it will be wanted, it 
may be parboiled or half-roasted, which will postpone its " going " 
for at least two or even three days. It must be boiled or roasted for 
nearly half the proper time in the first process ; and, in the second, it 
will generally take about three-quarters of that ordered for it in the 

usual way. 

44. Apples and Fears should be stored in a dry room, not exposed 
to any draught of air, by which they are dried too mueti, «a!^\i^<:«rcvfc 
shriyelled on the surface. They should also be lLex>t \ii X\i& ^^\V.\^ Vw 



32 ENGLISH COOKCBT. 

is desired to postpone the time of their becoming ripe. Tfaej should 
be arranged on wooden shelves, in such a^ way that each apple is 
distinct from its neighbours — contact with each other bein^ very apt 
to cause decay. Every week, at least, they should be looked over 
carefally, and the rotten fruit picked out. Some people keep them m 
straw or sand, but neither of these modes is equal to the plan described 
above. 

45. P0TATOB8 AND jKRVBAhea ARTicno&£8 are kept either stored 
in a dark and dry cellar, heaped up in a comer or stored in casks; or 
out of doors, in heaps; or ** buries ** covered over with earth, and 
sometimes thatched. A shallow trench is first made in a situation 
free from wet — that is to say, well drained. In this the potatoes are 
heaped up in a pyramidal form, at as high an angle as they will sus- 
tarn without foiling. The earth removed from the trench is next laid 
over them, and beaten down with a spade so as to form a smooth 
sloping surface on all sides, which in some soils is a sufficient pro- 
tectioD, but in loose sands will demand the addition of ordinary 
thatch. 



CHAP. IV.— GESTEBAL BEHARKS OTT ROASTDf G ANI> BAKING. 

Sect. I. — Genebai. OnsERYATiolf s. 

46. AlthongTi boiling may appear a more simple operation than 
roasthig, and though it is certainly more easy of application when the 
utensils are at hand ; yet the latter is the first step in the science of 
cookery, since it requires only a fire, while for boiling a waterproof 
vessel must be added. In savage life roasting or baking is common 
enough, a fire of dry branches being first made, and then the meat to 
be cooked is suspended near it by transfixing it with a straight stick, 
and supporting this upon two forked sticks stuck in the ground. For 
baking they scoop a hole in the ground and make a fire in it, then, 
after thoroughly heating it, the fire is removed, the meat introduced, 
and covered over with a flat stone, or with branches when this is not 
at hand. With these rude methods a joint may be cooked with a 
considerable approach to perfection, quite equalling the most successful 
efforts of any cook who does not haste her meat, an operation which the 
savage cannot perform, because he has nothing to catch the dripping 
h?, nor, ifcnnght, has he a spoon to baste witlu 



Tig. 110 




ROASTDfO AND BAKIKQ. 38 



Sect. 2. — ^Utensils. 

47. Fob Boabtiko ob Bakivo, the kind of grate is of the ntmos*; 
importance : it being impossible without a good one to turn out a 
well-dressed joint to advantage. It may be said that an open fire will 
always dress a joint of meat : and so it will, but not a large or small 
one at the choice of the cook, unless the fire is capable of being made 
narrow or broad, shallow or deep, according to the shape of the joint 
and its mode of suspension. The Tarious kinds of kitchen-ranges will 
be found described at page 22 ; and the comparative cost of fuel, includ- 
ing gas, in the Economical Housekeeper, It is therefore unnecessary here 
to return to the subject ; but the reader may be reminded that, when 
alluding to roasting, I mean at an open fire ; and by baking, I intend 
the process as conducted in an iron oven attached to a grate, or in a 
baker*3 oven. Unless, therefore, any specific remarks refer to roasting 
or baking by gas, the above methods of cookery are always to be 
understood. 

48. A Spit oh Hook for suspending the meat, with some kind of 
machinery for turning it, is the next in importance to the fire. Of 
these, the horizontal spit, worked by the snM)ke-jack, is the most per- 
fect (described at page 23, and illustrated by^. 67). In every case 
the article to be roasted is either suspended from above by a hook, or 
string tied to it, or it is transfixed by a horizontal spit (see Jig, 110, 
A b), and kept from turning round upon it by driving the points of 
the slide (o) into the end ; this slide travels freely upon the spit, but 
the shape of this being angular, and the socket of the slide fitting 
accurately, it cannot slip round, and consequently when pushed well 
into the meat it keeps it firmly fixed upon the spit. The next thing 
is to provide for the regular and constant rotation : this is done in the 
most simple way by a piece of cord, which, after it has been twisted in 
one direction, has a tendency to untwist itself, and so keeps up its 
action for a certain time, but requires constant attention. Next to 
this comes the bottle- jack (Jig. Ill a), which, by means of common 
clock-work, keeps up a constant revolution of any article attached to 
the hook (b). The objection to this kind is, that a fire can with difficulty 
be made equally strong at the top and bottom, and, consequently, the 
joint is roasted either too much or too little in one or other of its ends. 
But being of a comparatively low price it is often used, and succeeds 
well enough for poultry, game, or small joints. The horizontal to«i^\.- 
ing apparatus (Jig, 110) answers every purpose ; and foT a&mfO\ IwoScji 



34 ENGLISH COOKERT. w 

not requiring large hannches of matton or yenison to be dressed, it it ^ 
quite equal to the smoke-jack. The spit shown at fig, 110 is the oxdi- 
nary one, which serves for joints, or for poultry or game ; and one on 
the same principle is used also for these articles with the 8moke*jack; *' 
but in addition a cradle-spit (see fig, 67) is frequently employed, so at "' 
to include certain stuffed joints in its embrace without perfoimtliig 
them. It is not, howeyer, very often wanted, and may well be difpen* '^ 
sed with. In this kind of apparatus the spit is made to reyolve by 
clock-work at (d), wound up by a key in the same way as the bottle- ^ 
jack. 

49. Besides the Spit Ain> Jack, a screen must be used to prevent > 
the loss of heat, which would otherwise occur by radiation. If a 
smoke-jack is used, a large screen is brought up near the fire, similar > 
in form to^^. 110, but somewhat larger, and generally made to hold ' 
and warm the dishes and plates intended for dinner. In order to have 

it of the most perfect kind, it should be made of wood, which is a non- 
conductor of caloric, and lined with polished tin, which is a good 
reflector of it ; but, in general, it is made of tin, and painted on the 
outside, which is, however, a bad plan, as the paint increases the ten- 
dency to radiate heat. If, therefore, it is not made of wood, it should 
be left with as much metallic polish as possible on both sides. The two 
forms (figs, 110 and 111) are those usually adopted, and answer the 
purpose exceedingly well, though not quite equal to the large screeii 
adapted for the smoke-jack, because they do not so completely keep 
off all the cold draughts of air from doors and windows, and these 
cool the joint almost as much as the loss by radiation. 

50. A Dripping-pan and Bastinq-ladle will always be necessaxy, 
the former to collect, and the latter to use the dripping upon the joint 
In the dripping-pan a well (figs, 110 s. Ill b) is provided to catcJi the 
fat and gravy as they fall, the whole surface inclining to it; ihif 
well is covered with a hinged-lid, so as to keep any cinders out. The 
ladle is merely a long iron spoon, tinned. 

51. In the Oyen attached to grates there is very little to describe^ 
it being a mere chamber of iron (fig, 68) with flues conveying the 
heated products of the fire round it, at the will of the cook. A damper 
cuts off these, or otherwise ; and in many grates the cook is enabled^ 
by raking the hot coals into a chamber provided for the purpose, to 
increase the heat very considerably. For baking, all the steam is 
purposely confined ; but when these ovens are used for roasting cer- 
tain ventilators are opened, and these cause a current of air, which 






^\. 




86 BKQUSH COOKERY. 



thoronghlj deprired of its feathers, and the hairs remaining are to be 
singed off with white paper, or gas answers still better ; they axe next 
to be drawn, which is better done after singeing, thongh some cookf 
reverse this proceeding. 

DRAWD70 Gave ob Poultry. 

57. In drawing Game or Poultry, there are two methods of pro- 
ceeding, depending upon the time during which the birds are to be 
kept. Thus, when partridges, pheasants, or poultry are to be kept ss 
long a time as possible, it is desirable to remove the crop and intestines 
without admitting air into the interior : this is done by the method 
described below ; but the objection to it is, that sometimes, though not 
often, the gall-bladder is broken, and causes thereby a degree of 
bittemesB which is very unpleasant : — Take a wooden skewer, and pass 
it into the vent so as to hook the intestine on its point, then withdraw 
It with the point on the thumb, and it will bring a part with it inverted, 
like the finger of a glove in drawing it off; keep repeating this until a 
loop of intestine is brought out, when, by means of the finger using 
gentle traction, the whole may be drawn, leaving the gizzard, heart, 
and liver behind. The crop should be removed through a small slit 
made in the side of the neck, which will admit the finger to grasp it 
and draw it out as whole as possible. Some people prefer leaving this 
in until the final trussing, and for poultry which have had twelve hours' 
fasting it is qaite unnecessary to remove it ; but in game, and espe- 
cially in pheasants, the crop is often very full, and, if allo¥red to 
remain, will ferment, and canse the adjacent parts to turn sour. 

58. The Usual MsTnoD is to make a transverse opening with a 
knife between the vent and the rump. Through this the intestines 
are carefully drawn, and after they are all out, they should be severed 
at the vent ; then pass in the fingers and detach the gizzard, liver, and 
heart from their attachments, together with the crop, if it has not been 
already removed through the neck ; but it is better to bring away all 
together. After all are withdrawn, stretch the vent with the finger, 
and pass it over the rump, which will completely close the opening 
The gizzard is now to be detached, and slit open on one side, which 
will expose its contents ; these are to be removed, together with the 
lining membrane, which easily peels off, beginning at the cut edge» 
Then take away the gall-bladder from the liver, after which it may be 
separated from its attachments, but leaving the heart with it : the 
two forming the appendages of the Aue wing, as the gizzard does of 



4 



-'V* 



'♦. 



i 



» 

T 

d 
it 

.T 

'?: 

iC 

-•h 
in 






.in 
Si 









••■ 



„ in.-Grouse. „ 122.— Partridge. 



TRUSSING POE BOASTING. 3? 



ihe other. The lungs are left closely attached to the back-bone, being 
small and perfectly innocent. No water should, on any account, be 
osed to wash out poultry, unless any of the hollow organs hare been 
broken, in which case water must be freely applied ; but otherwise it 
is injurious, both from its causing loss of flavour, and a tendency to 
putrefaction. In geese, ducks, and often in fowls, there is a quantity 
of internal fat with the intestines, which should be preserved. In the 
two last kinds it serves to baste them, when melted, and goose-grease 
is useful for many purposes. 

Tbussino fob Boasting. 

59. Trussing for Boasting is managed in a different way from that 
for boiling, described under the chapter on that process. The follow- 
ing list of the methods adopted for roasting include the various kinds 
of poultry and game. It should be carefully remarked, that all 
skewers and strings should be removed after roasting, except the fine 
thread used in sewing up the belly of the hare or rabbit. 

To Truss Tubkets, Fowls, and Pigeons. 

60. Turkeys, Fowls, and Pigeons are trussed alike, with very slight 
Tariations. The legs are first broken half-way between the feet and 
the next joint, then fixing the feet in a door-joint, or a table-drawer, 
or in a screw-press, the sinews are torn out. Next place a doubled-up 
doth on the breast, and press or beat the bone till it gives way. After 
this the wings have a slit cut in their thin^ expansion of skin, and 
through this the gizzard and liver are passed, one on each side ; next 
to which the pinions are turned over the back, and a wooden skewer 
is passed through the flesh of each wing close to the bone, transfixing 
the body, and also each thigh. The head is cut off close to the body, 
first drawing the skin well back so as to leave a long covering for the 
end. This piece of skin is then passed under the ends of the pinions, 
or if in a stuffed turkey it is tied with a piece of coarse string, which 
is removed after roasting. In stuffing be careful not to fill the skin 
too full, or it will burst in roasting. All is now described but the legs, 
which should have been pushed up under the skin of the breast, and 
secured there by the skewer transfixing them and the wings through 
the body, and passing through them close to the joints. The homy skin 
is scalded and peeled, after which a piece of string or a small skewer, 
at the small end of the legs, completes the operation. If the skewer is 
used, it transfixes the side-bones (see Jigs, 114 and 1\!>), 



38 ENGLISH GOOKBBT. 



To Truss Gbess and Ducks. 

61. Geese and Ducks have their heads cnt off in the same waj as 
described at (a) ; but the legs are cut off at the first joint above the 
feet, and the wings are also removed at the first joint. Sometimes^ 
however, the legs of ducks are left on as in fowls. Next introduce the 
stuffing, and tie the skin as described at (a). After this the wings 
are transfixed by a skewer through the body, and the legs the same^ 
keeping them down by the side of the side-bones. The giblets, in- 
cluding the pinions, legs, liver, heart, gizzard, head, and neck, are 
separately cooked {see Jigs. 117 and 118). 

To Truss Wild-powls. 

62. Wild-fowl are trussed as described at (6), except that their legs 
are left on, and twisted each at the knuckle, so as to rest the claws on 
each side the back, where they are secured by transfixing them with 
a skewer, which also tacks the end of the pinion. The legs are scalded 
to get off the outside skin (see^. 124). 

To Truss Guinsa-fowl, Pheasants, and Partridges. 

63. Guinea-fowl and Feathered Game are trussed like the turkey, 
except that the heads are left on and turned under the left wing. The 
feet of partridges and grouse are also left on, having removed the 
toes, and generally those of pheasants and guinea-fowl. But some- 
times they are now removed (see^^rs. 120, 121, and 122). 

To Truss Hare and Babbit. 

64. Hares and Rabbits, for roasting, are first filled with stuffing; 
after which they are sewn up with a needle and thread. The head is 
then bent back upon the shoulders, and fixed there by a skewer passed 
through the mouth and into the body. The fore-legs are extended 
straight along the sides, and skewered there through the body ; after 
which the hind-legs are also brought straight forward, sometimes 
requiring a slight notch behind the joint to allow of this, and they are 
secured with a skewer. A string is then crossed under the belly, so 
as to catch the four points of the skewers, after which the ends are 
brought up over the back and tied (sqq Jig, 119). 

To Truss Fowls and Partridges with the Legs concealed. 

65. Fowls and Partridges are now often trussed so as to conceal the 
legs under the skin, and to dispense with skewers altogether. This is 
done by first rolling the skin backwards and forwards over the roots 



BONING AND JOINTING. 39 

of the thighs, and then poshing these joints completely under the skin 
of the breast. Next take a long straight trussing needle, and pass it 
through the end of the first pinion across the bodj, and into that of 
the opposite side, bringing it back through the joint of the thigh 
whUe thus under the skin, then carry it across and transfix the opposite 
thigh in the same way, and tie it to the other end of the string tight 
enough to maintain the proper shape. After this, the legs only require 
to be tied to complete the trussing. There is, however, no advantage 
m this plan over the skewers, and the string is more difficult to with- 
draw (see Jig. 116). 

DiBECTIONS FOB BONIKG. 

66. Boning is rather a difficult process, and should scarcely be 
attempted without an actual demonstration by a skilful and practised 
hand. After the feet and head are cut off and drawn as above, the 
skin is divided along the back, and then, with a very sharp knife, it, 
with the flesh, is gradually turned down on each side from the ribs, 
breast, side-bones, and merry-thought, which are left as bare as 
possible. In doing this it is necessary to take the legs and wings out 
at their sockets, and carry them with the rest of the flesh ; but when 
all this is removed, their bones, as far as they are covered with fleshy 
are made to project, with the one hand from the cut surface, while 
with the other the knife is carried round close to the bone, until, by 
continued repetition of this cutting, there is nothing left but the 
pinions covered with skin, and the lower half of the drumsticks, which 
are left to keep up the original appearance. When all this is done 
the skin is turned outwards, and with the aid of skewers, needles and 
thread, and stuffing, the bird is made to assume its natural shape, or 
as near an approach to it as possible. 

DiBECTIONS FOB JoiNTlNO. 

67. Joints of Meat which are to be divided in carving should be 
carefully jointed by the butcher, but it is the duty of the cook to see 
that this has been done, as without it the carver has a most trouble- 
some task. Jointing is particularly necessary in loins of mutton or 
veal, and in the fore-quarter of lamb, or in neck of veal ; the joints 
require to be well separated with the chopper, which should be made 
to pass deeply between the bones. 

Seot. 4. — Gekeral Management of the Fire. 

68. During the Preparation of the Articles to be RQ&st%d^\^<^%s^ 
should be gradttaJly getting into a proper con^tvoTv iox \Ni^ Yc<^<^ft»»> 



40 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



bat in order to this it mast have been made np preTioasly, with enough 
coal to carry it well throogh, unless the joint to be roasted is a very 
large one. Thus, a haanch of mutton or Tcnison, or sirloin of beef, 
require a large fire to be made up an hour before thej are put down, 
m-ithout which they cannot possibly be properly roasted ; while for 
smaller joints half an hour is long enough. It is not desirable that 
the fire should be at its best when the meat is first put down, but it 
must be burning up briskly, and throwing out a good heat. !For 
small joints, or for poultry, &c., a small brisk fire will suffice, and, in 
fact, will roast better than a very large one. In every case, the fire 
should be made up to the top-bar with lumps, and as soon as these 
are burning pretty strongly they should be somewhat damped, by 
heaping up some wetted small coal or cinders upon them, so that a 
very slight stirring at intervals will keep the fire at a strong but steady 
heat without flame. Just before the joint is put down a stir should 
be given, which should be forcible enough to last for some time. 
Unlike boiling, the temperature of the open fire varies greatly, accord- 
ing to its size and kind of coal used. Some of these throw out a 
scorching heat, such as the Brooch coal of Stafibrdshire, and yet their 
temperature in the mass itself is said to be really lower than that of 
the Newcastle coals. It is difficult to measure the heat in roasting, 
without a thermometer of a description different to the ordinary ones, 
as it is far above the boiling point of water, as evidenced by the 
charring effect on the fat, which is not altered at that temperature 
from its natural state as to colour. In Dr. Kitchener's justly celebrated 
Cook^s Oracle, at page 125, the calculations for roasting are said to be 
" for a temperature of about 50 degrees of Fahrenheit;*' but this is 
evidently a mistake, either of his own or of his printer, as that tem- 
perature would not even warm the meat, much less roast it I believe 
that it ranges from 350 to 600 degrees of Fahrenheit, or even still 
higher in very fierce fires. This calculation is for the distance of 
twelve inches from the front of the fire, that being about the average. 
In small fires there must be a much closer proximity of the joint, say 
at six or seven inches, while in very large ones fifteen inches will not 
be too far off. 

69. If thbhb is a Smoke-jack, place the dripping-pan under the 
meat, far enough from the fire to escape the coals dropping out, but near 
enough to catch all the dripping as it falls from the meat. Then put 
down the spit in the rack, and bring up the screen, placing it so that 
it will not only reflect the heat of the fire, but keep off all draughts of 



B0A8TIKG. 41 



cold air. Where a screen and jack together are nsed with a dripping- 
pan attached, the whole are placed before the fire at the same time. 

Sect. 5. — GeiteralPbincifles of Boasting. 

70. According to Liebig, it is essential to the successful and econo- 
mical management of roasting, to put the joint down first of all close 
to the Jire, so as to coagulate the albumen on the surface, and thus to 
prevent the escape of it in a fluid state. This answers remarkably well 
in boiling, but not in roasting, because the heat is not applied to the 
whole surface at once, but only to one half of it, the other half being 
cooled at that time, so that it is impossible to raise the surface, without 
scorching it, up to the coagulating point of albumen, until the whole 
mass is also above 150 degrees. In a Dutch oven the plan is good, 
both in theory and practice ; but with a revolving spit it is totally 
erroneous, and the old directions, to put down the joint first at a dis- 
tance, and then gradually biing it nearer to the fire, are the correct 
ones. In roasting, very little besides water and fat are expelled from 
the meat, the former by evaporation, and the latter by liquefaction 
from the increased temperature, and by contraction of the fibrous 
tissues owing to the same cause. A small quantity of gravy, contain- 
ing the juice of the flesh (osmazome), is also expressed ; but the loss in 
this way is very trifling, not amounting to more than a few ounces of 
gravy in a large joint of meat, and never being more than enough to 
serve as gravy. Indeed, in roasting, there is absolutely no loss what- 
ever of any thing but water, the fat being collected as dripping, and of 
equal value with the meat, while the osmazome is saved in the form 
of gravy, or else it is collected about the dripping-pan, from which it 
is dissolved in the water poured into it, to make the gravy se'rved with 
the meat. Although, therefore, there is a great difference between 
the weight of a joint when cooked and that which pertained to it when 
raw, yet this loss, after allowing for the weight of dripping and gravy, 
is to be considered as due to the water passing off by evaporation ; so 
that a roast joint of meat, together with its dripping and gravy, con- 
tains all the nourishment which pertained to it beforehand. This, we 
shall presently see, is not the case with boiled meat. 

71. Besides this absolute economy in roasting, there is also the 
advantage that roast meat is more grateful to the stomach. \\i«jv\^cr^&^> 
and can be eaten for a longer time without change. Tli\a \a -^t^sX^y 
dae to tie presence of the saline ingredients; but to 'w\ia.te^et e«co>sa 
Jtmsjrbe referred^, there iano doubt of the fact, that aivy oueWxWTOS^s: 



42 ENGLISH COOKEBT. 



sooner get tired of boiled mutton than roast, or of boiled than roast 
beef; and also, that invalids can digest roast in preference to boiled 
mutton, both being fresh. 

72. Tub Weight thus lost bj evaporation and dripping of fiU and 
gravj, varies a good deal according to the qoality^ of the meat, the 
proportion ot bones, and the amount of &t, as described at page IS of 
the Economical Housekeeper, It is also said that, bj roasting with gas, 
there is less loss by evaporation, with a greater saving of dripping ; and 
this, I am assured upon good private authority, as well as from public 
experiments recently made. According to an experiment made by IC 
Soyer, at the Greenwich Hospital (the account of which was published 
in the Mechanics* Magazine)^ twenty-three legs of mutton, weighing 
184 lbs., were roasted by gas at a cost of 10^ ; the gas costing 4s. 
per 1000 feet. 

When cooked thej weighed ... ... ... m. ... m. ... liB Uml 

Urtppins ••. «•« ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... MM (( 

Gravy, or osmazome m* ... •— —• ... ... S| „ 

vvftteTf or loss ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... mt^ f^ 

ISillM. 

Twenty-three joints, also weighing 184 lbs., were afterwards cooked in 

one of Count Rumford's ovens, usually considered more economical 

than roasting, and consuming 102 lbs. of coke and 30 lbs. of coal, 

valued at Is. 8d, — 

They weighed when done ... 132 Ibai 

x/ripping ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 f, 

urAvy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0«0 If ^ 

*VAieri or lOiM ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .«. s* m 



1S4UM. 



The gain by the use of gas was therefore— 















a. 


d. 


13 lbs. of meat 


... 


... ... ... 


... 


... 


... 


... 8 


• 


1 lb. of dripping ... 


... 


... ... ... 


... 


... 


... 


... 


5 


i^lb».o(gnyy 


... 


... ... ... 


... 


... 


... 


... 8 


6 


Difference in cost of fuei 


... 


... ... ... 


... 


... 


... 


... 


9h 






Total gain ... 


... 


... 


... 


... U 


2| 



In this, as in other similar experiments, I cannot help thinking that 
the saving is more apparent than real, and that it depends upon the 
more regular application of the heat, and upon the meat being done m 
the one case more thoroughly than in the other. It is an acknowledged 
/kc^ that there is no loss in roasting except ^>y e.N«Lpox«LV\Q.xL ^i ^«x«t\ 
snd if so, what became of the thirteea 1\». oi meaX \i\sM:^ ^^x^ %».^ v* 



WEIGHT LOST IN BOASnNG. 43 

be gained bj the gas-roasting at Greenwich ? It did not flj away as 
meat, it did not ooze out as dripping, nor as osmazome, for there was 
less of the former and none of the latter ; and therefore I should con- 
clude that it was dissipated as vapour or water, leaving the meat in 
this case done thoroughly, while that from the gas-roaster must, I 
should £Euicy, have been rather under-done. In order to try this 
experiment properly, it requires the superintendence of a person not 
interested in the success of either plan, and who has not been pre- 
viously biassed, so that he would, as far as possible, permit both sets 
of joints to be cooked to the same degree ; and when this is done, I 
believe, from theoretical principles as well as practical experience, that 
the result will be as nearly as possible the same. But with regard to the 
comparative efficiency of gas I have no doubt, as I am persuaded that 
it is quite equal to the most sanguine expectations of its advocates, 
and with this great advantage, that the drooping and gravy are quiu 
deary and free frvm cinders or dust So that there is, practically, not 
the slightest loss in this kind of roasting. 

73. Table showing the Loss pes Cyjst. by the various Joints in 
Boasting and Bakino : — 













100 lbs. lose 


Roasting with gas. 


••• 


••• 


••• 


• •• 


... (Soyer) 81} lbs. 


Baking in Count Kumford's oven 


••• 


• •• 


••• 


... (do.) 27i „ 


Do. In oomraon oTen 


••• 


• •• 


••• 


••• 


... (TUloch) 80 n 


Boasting beef before fire 


••• 


••• 


••• 


••• 


... (da) 82 „ 


Da shoulders of mutton 


••• 


••• 


• •• 


••• 


(da) 8l| „ 


Da loins 


• •• 


• •• 


••• 


• •• 


(do.) 85} „ 




••• 


••• 


••• 


••• 


... (da) 88* „ 


Da siJioins and ribs, beef 


••« 


• •• 


••• 


••• 


... (Donovan) 19} „ 


Da legs and shoulders, mutton 


• •• 


••• 


• •• 


... (do.) 241 „ 




••• 


•*• 


••• 


••• 


... (da) 221 „ 


Do. poultry 


••• 


••• 


••• 


••• 


(da) 20 „ 



Hie loss, as stated by Tilloch, agrees very closely with experiments 
made by myself. Under this head are included the dripping and 
gravy, the calculation being based on the difference in the weight 
before and after roasting. 

74. A Knowledge of the Time Requibed for Roasting is very 
essential to the cook ; and in cooking for parties she should be careful 
to put her meat down so as to be ready for the second course, not for 
the first, which usually occupies about ten minutes. Nevertheless in 
such cases it is always better to have the meat done a littV^ \.qo ^^oiii^ 
and to keep it hot before the &re, rather than to 'ha'v^Xo ^^xl^Sx 'o.'^ 
nader-done. The precise time occupied in roasting eaj&\i 8kS\A!c^^^*^ 
cmne better under the next section ; but, as a gen^xal xvxVe, «^ c^jaJKt^ 



44 ENGLISH COOKEBY. 



of an hour to each pound of meat is the proper allowance, adding a 
little for large joints, and taking off in the same way for small oneSi 
It is better in roasting joints of any size to lay them in the dripping- 
pan at a distance from the fire, so as to warm through before beginning 
to time them. Many cooks also at this time sprinkle them over with 
salt, and I think with great advantage. 

To Make Grayt. 

75. Gravy is always made after the meat is taken up, except when 
what is called *' made-gravy '* is intended to be used, as for game and 
poultry, in which there is no osmazome pressed out in the roasting^ 
and consequently nothing to make it of in the dripping-pan. With 
mutton, beef, and butcher's meat generally, after the meat is taken ap^ 
so as to liberate the dripping-pan, the fat in that vessel is poured oS, 
and then a small quantity of boiling water is put into it, and thoroughly 
washed over its surface by moving it horizontally with a little dexterity, 
leaving it in while the spit, skewers, &c., are being removed, ato 
which the water, now become gravy, is poured into the dish contain- 
ing the meat, and is often of very excellent quality, depending greatly 
upon the manipulations of the cook and the age of the meat. 

Basting. 

76. Basting is the most important of all the requisites for roasting, 
and it is for want of its being properly done that roast joints are so 
constantly spoiled. In fat meats, such as beef, mutton, or pork, their 
own dripping, after it has run into the well of the pan, is the best 
thing for the purpose ; but in poultry, veal, and game there is nothing 
coming out which will serve, and they must be basted either with 
plain butter (^good salt or potted), mutton or heef dripping, water andsalif 
milk, meked-butter, or sometimes with cider, ale, or wine. 

Dredging* 

77. Dredging is another item connected with roasting, and requires 
a tin box with a perforated lid, called a dredger. This usually holds 
wheat-flour; but for some joints, &c., this is mixed with grated bread, 
or dried herbs, or grated lemon or orange-peel. The dredger is shaken 
over the roast at short intervals, so that its contents remain on the 
surface, and form with the fat oozing out a kind of coating, which is 
sometimes intentionally made very thick, as for hare; but these 
coatings are not now so common, or fashionable either, as they 



BfCJBNIKO, LASDIKG. 45 



formerly were, when eyery kind of roast was sent to table corered 
with, a thick brown cmst — whereas now a pale brown is the usual 
colour, clear of all flour. 

To Prevekt Bubnino by Papeb ob Paste. 

78. Paper is often wrapped or skewered oyer the fat to prevent its 
wasting away, as in the inside of the sirloin of beef, or on both sides 
of the haunch of mutton or yenison. For these last also a paste is 
often made of flour and water, and applied about half an inch thick, 
when the joint is first put down. Whether the paper or paste is used, 
it is only suflered to remain on until within half an hour of the finish- 
ing, when it is remoyed, and the surface allowed to assume a delicate 
light-brown, without any great loss of substance. In this is the great 
art of roasting to perfection, according to the fashion of the present day. 

79. The directions for roasting the seyeral joints, &c^ embrace the 
exceptional and peculiar modes of dressing each kind. It will be 
understood that the general principles described in the last section 
apply to them all ; but that superadded to them are also some other 
points, which differ in each, more or less, and require attention to 
give to each dish its characteristic appearance and flayour, as is usual 
in this country. 

Labdino. 

80. Larding consists In the introduction of thin and narrow pieces 
of ham or bacon into poultry and meats naturally somewhat dry and 
deyoid of flayour. Indeed whatever roast or stewed dish is usually 
eaten with these additions, is improved by their introduction into its 
substance by means of the larding-ncedle. Thus veal, turkeys, fowls, 
and rabbits may all be larded with advantage, and roasted or stewed 
at the conclusion of the operation. 

81. A Labding-needlb is merely a short thick needle, with a 
spring opening or slit instead of an eye, so that a narrow slip of bacon 
may be introduced — just as a penholder is inserted in a steel pen. 
Charged with this larding, the needle is passed through a pinched-up 
portion of flesh, and having inserted it so that its two ends project, 
the slit of the needle is opened and liberates its charge. These pieces 
ef bacon are inserted in regular order, and at intei^aVa o^ «Xio\3i\. «cv 
inch, in the breast of a turkey, a fowl, or in the substane^ oi N^«V^^<i.\ 
ttfier which the artieJe 28 comidered larded, and \s x^ij iot \i«tci5j 

dressed. 



46 ENGLISH OOOKERT. 



Sect. 6. — Oten-boastino. 

82. In Common Baeiko and Oyek-boasting (by which latter name 
cooking in ventilated ovens is called), the meat is always prepared as 
in the last section, except that it is not spitted, but pnt in a dish 
supported upon an iron wire frame, which suspends it from the bottom* 

The dripping-pan should be fixed upon another pan filled with Jiot 
water, from which the steam has the power of escaping f this is yery 
important, as it prevents the pecaliar flavour often given to the meat! 
by the iron oven, and the meat requires less basting. In gas-oreni^ 
the space is purposely made large enough to suspend a joint firom the 
top, and, as the jets are all round it, the process is very evenly con- 
ducted, and hence arises its economy. M. Soyer has invented a ynsj 
simple open frame-work of wire, which lies upon a deep tin or 
earthenware dish, in two stages, and supports a joint together with a 
dish ofpotatoeSf so that these may be baked upon it, while a Yorkshire 
pudding is also baked in the dish beneath. As the meat is raised 
above the potatoes, and these again are above the pudding, dripping 
falls upon both. It is a very useful addition to the poor man*8 means 
of comfort. When these joints are sent to the public bakehouse, the 
baker knows liow long they will take ; but if baked at home the time 
will be as nearly as possible the same as for roasting, depending, how- 
ever, partly upon the heat of the oven. Sucking pig, leg of pork, and 
perhaps beef or veal, are nearly as good baked as roasted ; but baked 
mutton, lamb, game, and poultry, are not to be compared with these 
articles when properly roasted. 



CHAP, v.— THE BOILING, STEAMING, AND STEWING OP ANIHAL 

FOOD. 

Sect. 1. — General Obsebtations. 

83. In comparing roasting with boiling at page 32, 1 have observed 
that though the latter appears to be a more simple process, it is not 
so in reality, because it requires a greater advance in the mechanical 
arts to procure the saucepan or pot in which the water must be con* 
tained. But, in the present day, in comparing roasting and boilings 
there is no question that the former requires much more art and ex* 
perience than the latter ; and CTei/ one's experience will recall to 



BOiLnrG. 47 



memory more instances of spoiled roasted articles than of boiled meats 
injured in the same way. 

Sect. 2. — ^Utensils. 

84. The utensils for boiling meat and poultry are yery simple, con- 
sisting only of round or oral saucepans of yarious sizes, which are 
better lined with enamel, though it is by no means necessary. Where 
a large oval pot is adopted for the purpose of boiling a number of 
things together, a net of twine is yery useful to keep each separate ; 
and, for boiling white meats, in that case a cloth must be wrapped 
round them. A trivet placed at the bottom of the pot will also be 
useful for large joints, in order to prevent them A^>m burning. Stew- 
pans and steamers will be described under the sections devoted to 
stewing and steaming. Large iron spoons and skimmers complete 
the list. 

Sect. 3. — Gbnebai. Pbinciples ot Boiliko. 

85. As in roasting, so in the process now under discussion, the 
principal effect is the coagulation of the albumen, and the rendering 
tender of the fibrous membranes. This makes the whole much more 
digestible ; and if it were not for the dissolving out into the water of 
the saline matters, as well as the soluble gelatine and albumen, there 
would be a superiority in boiling over roasting in every respect. But 
from their occurrence it follows that unless the liquor is used with the 
meat, there is a want of these essential Ingredients; so that a person 
fed upon boiled meat alone, vnth bread and potatoes, and none of the 
broth, would speedily lose health and strength. The plan recom- 
mended by Liebig, for the purpose of keeping in the juices by rapidly 
coagulating the albumen on the surface, answers well in point of 
economy, the saving being fully two or three per cent. ; but I do not 
believe that the meat so treated is quite so tender. His plan is to 
immerse the meat in boiling water, and boil for five minutes. After 
this, lower the temperature down to that which will not scald the 
hand, either by the simple addition of cold water, or by first abstract- 
ing sufficient boiling water to allow of its being poured in. After this, 
the boiling is carried on at a slow simmer until the meat is done. It 
is easy to understand how water boiled rapidly acts mor^ «iie;t\^<^\.V!»2^ 
npon the meat than when boiled more slowly ; f ot t\LO\i^ \\ Tk«^«t 
J3te0 share SIS degrees, yet it giyes out a much, gceatec c^wiVSXrj o1 

Jieaiia sgirea time, and eonseqaentlj, raises the tempcwkX^t^ o^ ^ 



48 EXOUSH COOKSaT. 



meat much more qnickly. Water is kept at a certain temperature in 
boiling, because whatever articles are raised above that temperatme 
arc converted into steam and escape ; but meat in it is not capable of 
being converted into steam, and in water thus rapidly boiled it is 
capable of being raised above the boiling degree, or 212 degrees, and 
if not thus raised, it is much more qnicklj heated, because it reeeivei 
the superflnous temperature of a greater mass of steam given off in 
the bubbles accompanying the "galloping" process. It has been 
observed, under the head of Roasting, at page 41, that, independently 
of the watery particles flying off by steam, the loss in that process k 
solely from the fat and gravy which drop into the dripping-pan, and 
which ought to be collected and saved ; but in boiling there is neaily 
as much dissolved in the liquor in which the boiling takes place, as 
we shall presently see. According to Mr. Tilloch, whose experiments 
are corroborated by my own on the large as well as the small scale, 
the loss by boiling is as follows : — 

Beer In boiling loses 

Locs of mutton •• ... ..• 

Boiling salt beef (Donovan) 

f, Legs of matton (do.) 

I, llAniS (QO.) ••* ••. ... ... ».. 

„ Salt pork (<lo.) 

„ Bncon (<!<>•) 

„ Tnrkoys (I'o.) 

,, Cliickcn (<lo>) — ••• 

Donovan's estimate is here pretty correct, except in reference to the 
legs of mntton, which certainly lose more than 10 per cent. ; and, I 
believe, fully what is stated on Tilloch*s authority, namely, 21^ per 
cent. 

86. In comparing Boiling, therefore, with roasting, there is an 
apparent gain, according to Tilloch's experiments, of about 10 per 
cent, in favour of boiling mutton, and, according to Donovan's, of 14| 
per cent in legs of mutton, and about 14 per cent, in poultry. But 
then it must be recollected, that 100 lbs. of roasted meat will produce 
about ten lbs. of good dripping, and also a pound or two of good 
gravy, neither of which can be obtained from the boiling process when 
the liquor is not used ; consequently it is imperative that this should 
be saved, and employed in some way, if this kind of cookery is to be 
considered more economical than roasting, for otherwise the loss in 
dripping will counterbalance the saving in other respects. If the 
boilings are wasted, there is an absolute loss of at least 20 per cenL 
of good nscfol matter in the ahape of the fat (which, by the way, U 



in 100 lb. 26} IK 


«« 


»in 


n 


15 „ 


ti 


10 „ 


n 


m-n 


«« 


ISJh 


»« 


<%«. 


t« 


1« n 


t« 


]3i„ 



Fig^ lis 



F,fr 12* 




./*; tV.—ngrandosui). K». IM,— ml(lBBck(r«ut). 

\^ JSS.— Turkey fbolJei). ., \M.— SI™\^^>^*\•A^. 

Uf.—ODoae (boiled). .. \ia.— -Bj^^iii, W.^"""^ 



TBUSSXKO Ain> BOIUKO. 4^ 

always to a certain extent mi^ed up with scnm in boiling, and there- 
fore comparatively nseloM), and of the dissolTed gelatine, albamen, and 
salts. The gelatine and saline matter may be saved in solution, and 
when not too salt, as in boiling sah meats, it may be made into good 
soup ; but the albumen and fat are skimmed off during the boiling, and 
they are not easily cooked np into any useful article of food. Here, 
as in all kinds of ^oakeaj, the -chief art in point of economy consists 
in making use of every part of-.tiie food which is fitted to support life ; 
by imparting proper and wholesome nourishment, and a variety in the 
regular routine, the boUing process is ^nite capable of effecting all the 
purposes of the cook, when oonduQted with :the .provisions here men- 
tioned and insisted upon. 

Sect. 4.— ;Pib£CTIons mjssd Modbs of Tbussinq fob Boilikq. 

87. Turkeys, Ouine^-fowls, and Fowls, are all trussed in the 
same way for boiling, the heads being removed as for roasting. The . 
legs are pulled off also in a similar way, ibiit veiy close to the joint, 
and the breast-bone depressed. The legs are then gradually insinua- 
ted under the skin, and when there the wings are secured through the 
legs to the body (see Jiffs. 125 and 126). I«astly, a sufficient quantity 
of stuffing is introduced into the neck of turkeys and guinea-fowls, hot 
not in common fowls. They should all be boiled according to Liebig's 
method, by putting th^n in boiling water and then cooling it down 
(see par. 85). The allowance of a quarter of an hour to each pound, 
reckoning from the time -the wateo: boils, is about that required. The 
boiling should be very slow, and the water should be constantly skim- 
med. Bacon, ham, or tongue, always accompimy these articles ; and 
oyster or bread ^auce, with good gravy. 

To Boil and Tbuss GbassE and Dvoks, 

88. (reese and Duoks are sometimes boiled. They are then 
trussed as for roasting, and boUed in the same nuuiner as turkeys, 
with or without .a stuffing of sage and onions, and served with onion 
sauce and gravy. (Fig» 127.) 

To Truss and Boil Babbits 

89. Babbite should be well washed for boiliDg, and, if ^«!«^ \As»^ 
at the shoulder, ite^MbaaJd be treated as desonbod foft \i«!C^«X^J&V 
par. T9. Trasa tbem with Ihe lieads brought '\)ack agaVo^X^ ^<^ t^:;£n)l 

side (see J^. 138), then bail They are best -wlxen dtoi^^^^ vii\o\i^^'' 



50 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



ing water, which should be kept gently boiling and well skimmed fbr r:^ 
half an hoar, or rather better. Thej are generally coYered with oniQa .•« 
sance, or with white sance. Sometimes a sance is made with the % 
livers chopped and mixed with fine herbs. 

General Directions tor Boiliko Joints. 

« 

90. In all joints the plan of boiling suggested hj Liebig is the znoit > 
economical, and also the best in point of flavoar, though, as I before . 
observed, not quite so well calculated to make it tender. For flie ^ 
mode recommended here, see par. 85. In the directions appended to 
each joint the time is generally in accordance with the quarter-of-an- ^ 
hour calculation. 

Sect. 5. Tub Steaming of Meat, &c, 

91. In this method the meat is placed in a kettle, with a TalTe to . 
it, and without water. Steam is introduced; and according to the 
pressure on the valve will be the temperature at which it is steamed. 
If there is no valve, it will not rise above 212 degrees ; but with aveiy 
slight weight upon a common metal plug it soon rises to 240 degree^ 
or even higher. There is much less waste in this way, both of heat 
and of the juices of the meat ; and in point of economy, therefore, the 
plan is a very good one. In the London eating-houses, dinners for a 
hundred people, or even more, are cooked at one fire by the aid of 
ovens and steam-boilers, and at an expense of not more than a third 
or half a ton of coals weekly. The steam-kettles may be placed at 
any moderate distance from the fire (see Jig. 68, f f f) ; and the pipes 
being furnished with stop-cocks, the steam is either admitted at the 
full or partially, and under pressure or not, a waste-pipe being also 
fitted. Vegetables steamed in this way are particularly tender, but 
not of quite so good a colour as in boiling. 

92. When it is desirable to boil water by steam for the purpose of 
cooking, as for some vegetables, soups, &c., it is only necessary to fill 
any of the above steam-kettles with water, and then turn on the steam 
as usual. The water is soon heated to the boiling-point, and then 
acts exactly as if placed upon an ordinary fire. 

93. In the old-fashioned Steamer a vessel is placed upon another, 
fitting tightly into it. The bottom of the upper vessel being perfora- 
ted with holes, the steam passes through and acts in the same way as 
if admitted by a pipe ; but the objection is that the condensed steam, 
and the other juices of the vegetables, &c, cooked in the steamer, are 



STEWIMO AND FBYINO. 61 

yeij apt to return into the lower yessel, and iDJnre the flavoar of its 
contents. It has been chiefly used for potatoes, which are thought by 
many people to be better when steamed than when boiled in water. 

Sect. 6. — ^Thb Fbinciplbs of Stewing. 

94. Under this head is comprised slowly-boiled or stewed meats, 
served with their gravy, and generally flavoured with vegetables of 
some kind. The chief art here is to keep down the temperature, so as 
to avoid the hardening of the fibres, and too rapid coagulation of the 
albumen by heat. For this purpose the meat is put into cold water, 
and it is very gradually raised to a very low boiling point — ^what is 
called a '' gallop " never being permitted. 

95. Thb Utensils are merely stewpans of suitable sizes, which may 
or may not be heated by steam-pipes. Stewpans are now almost 
always rather shallow vessels, or saucepans of enamelled iron, or some- 
times of block-tin or tinned copper ; and they are either heated on a 
hot-plate, or kept a proper distance from an ordinary fire, or placed 
in a water-bath. 

- 96. The various receipts hereafter given, will be found exceedingly 
nourishing and of good flavour, and in point of economy will go further 
than any other dishes whatever. It will be seen that in a great many 
cases, in order to improve the flavour, the meat is either roasted or 
fried before it is stewed. 



CHAP. VL— FEYINO OB 8AXJTEIKG, BROILING. TOASTING, AND 

BBAISING OF ANIMAL FOOD. 

Sect. 1. — ^Fbting ob Sauteing. 

97. This method of cooking is universally adopted among all 
classes, and in all nations where iron vessels are to be obtained. The 
French muUib nothing more than their method of frying, but carried 
out with rather more care than usual. Whether in French or English 
cookery, however, frying is hoUing in oil or fat; the chief difference 
being, that in our country only a little of this material is put into a shal- 
low pan, .while in France they half fill a somewhat deep iron vessel with 
oU or lard, and when this is hot enough they immerse the article to 
be iUed in the oil till sufficiently brown. In French kitchens a vessel 
is set apart to receive this oil from day to day, and the same quantity 
serves fox months together by straining it through, a sv^^o— %q ^i^\ 



52 ElfTGLISH COOKERY. 

none is lost excepting that which is absorbed by the food in the pn>- 
cess. In point of economy, therefore, the French beat ns here, M m 
our method the fat left in the pan is seldom preserved till the neat 
time, but it goes into a wash-tub or some other waste receptackb 
Besides this loss, there is a still greater one occasioned by the mode 
in which the frying is conducted. In the French plan the fat jor oH if 
first heated to such a temperature that it will conyert water hiId 
steam directly a drop falls upon it, making it " spit," as the oooksM^ 
At this stage the meat, or other article, is immersed, by which ft eoai^ 
ing of coagulated albumen is immediately made, soon to be partial^ 
carbonized or browned, but so rapidly formed that scarcely ouy joke 
is allowed to escape, and therefore the nourishing particles arenoi 
wasted ; and, as the whole is immersed, the action is simultaneonf on 
all sides. Contrast this with the English method, and it will he fraud 
that here, as soon as the lard is melted, the steak or other article is pat 
into the pan, which is soon raised to a very high temperatnre, and 
contracts the fibrinous matter on the lower side, squeezing. the grawf-nid 
on the upper, from which it may be seen to ooze in a full stream; and 
it is not until it is turned downwards that this is at all checked. The 
consequence of this is, that not only is there a great waste of nutritioiii 
matter, but the lard is mixed with a great quantity of good giaTJi 
which is so rich that it is generally mixed with a little flour. and apifliQ^ 
and eaten with the steaks. It is from this custom that the French do 
not understand dressing a beefsteak in the English fashion ; but when 
frying it they do it to perfection in every respect but the gravy, which, 
being deficient from the nature of the process, is supplied by some 
sauce or other poured over it. A broiled steak they can accomplish 
if they can get the meat ; but beef in Paris fit for such a process il 
rather rare. Hence it is that for steaks, when they are to be fried, 
the English method is really to be preferred ; while for every other 
operation done in the frying-pan, the French plan will be found ysstlj 
superior, especially for fish, missolles, fritters, and every dish which k 
required to be served dry, as this cannot be accomplished unless they 
are completely immersed in boiling butter, lard, or oiL 

98. The Fbtikg-pan should be, in some measure, proportioned to 
the size of the article to be fried, especially on the English plan ; but 
for the French method, one large enough for a full-siacd sole wiE 
equally serve for a sprat or a single cutlet. The English frying-pan k 
generally round and shallow, that is, about two inches deep. OtHho 
other hand, the French pan should he six or eight inches deqi, and 



Mf. 119 




DMPPINO. 63 



fitted with a liniDg of open wire-work ; bo that, when sufficiently done, 
the article or articles may he raised out of the fat, and suffered to 
drain for a few seconds, without which they will he oily and gross, 
while with it they heconse crisp, and so firee. from greaee that they do 
not even soil a napkin when in contact wM it. The metal is iron» 
and the hottom should be tolerably thick (see^^rs. 131 and 132). 

99. Fat of some kind is essential to frying, and it may be either 
olive-oily or lard, or hacon-fat, or clarified dripping, or suet, or butter, or 
eren the skimmings of ihs' stock-pot Olftb-oil requires great care in 
its use, being Tcry apt to Bum, and not answering the purposes of 
English frying : but for the more delicate kindis of fish, or indeed fbr 
any kind of sautis (see par. 97), oil is capable of being made use of in 
the frying-pan to great advantage. Labd- and Butter answer well 
for any purpose, a& do suet and- dripping, or even the skimmings when 
clarified, the proper mode of doing which will be given in the next 
paragraph- 
To Clabift Dbifpino, Labd^ and Suet. 

lOOi To Clarify Dripping or SIbimmings, put either into a dean 
saucepan over a stove, hot plate, or small fire. Melt it very slowly, 
and skim till quite clear at the upper port ; let it just boil f&r a second, 
then strain it through a sieve, and let it get edsd. There will always 
be more or les» watery gravy at the bottom ; but the upper part will 
be clear fat, free &om admixture with any other matter, and quite 
good enough for any ordinary fryings, or for basdng meat. 

101. To Clarify Lard or Suet. — ^The kidney-fat of either animal 
must be cut into small pieces, and must then be put into a water- 
bath, or in a cool oven, or on a very cool hot-plate or stove ; the 
slightest increase of temperature more than sufficient ta liquefy the 
fiit gives a taste of baraing, whieh is not pleasant. If there is no 
water-both at hand, an earthenware jar immersed in- a saucepan of 
water, and covered over with a saucepan-lid, answera all the purpose. 
Whichever plan is adopted, the process must be very slow, as the cells 
in which the fat lies take a long time to empty themselves. When 
the lumps have shrunk almost to nothing, strain the whole through a 
sieve, and increase the heat a little for the remaining portion ; the 
water-bath not being sufficient to extract all the fat. ISj^^^ >i^i\!&\d&\. 
^2Jt separate, as it is only lit for frying, and not fox ^as^T^. *^« 
down the jar when cold, and either suet or laxd "wlSl t\i«n Y'ee^ «bVs«^^ 



54 ENGLISH OOOKEBY. 



Management of the Fibe. 

102. The fire for frying should be dear of black coals, and conse- 
quentlj of blaze, but only just burnt up ; and there should be a good 
light above, for the cook to judge by the eye of the progress of her 
cookery. Care must, of course, be taken not to set fire to the fat. 

DiBECTIONS TOE FrTINO. 

103. In Frying, first heat the pan and the fat in it (whether on the 
English or French plan) till it has ceased to hiss or *' spit," and will 
immediately turn brown a small piece of bread. Then either put the 
article in on the bottom, and turn it as soon as the under-side is 
brown, turning it back again to complete the process. Many articles 
are put into the frying-pan without any preparation beyond redudng 
them to a proper thickness ; but others are coated with bread-crumb, 
which is made to adhere by white of egg. In the French plan there 
is little or no necessity for turning, and after introducing the wire- 
lining, and properly heating the fat, the article to be fried is smoothly 
dropped in, and suffered to remain quietly until it is quite brown 
enough, when it is removed by the wire-lining, and drained over the 
pan for about half a minute. In any case where bread-crumb is used, 
and especially in frying fish, the oil or fat remaining should be im- 
bibed either by blotting-paper or a clean white cloth, changing these 
until they are not stained ; but if the oil or fat is hot enough, it runs 
off so completely while in the wire that nothing is left behind* 

Sect. 2. — ^Broilino. 

104. Broiling differs from frying, in the fact that there is no addition 
of oil or fat ; and that the effect is produced by the direct radiation of 
heat from a clear fire, the broiling articles being supported over it by 
a gridiron. As a necessary consequence, the gravy will ooze out firom 
the upper side, and is generally lost by falling into the fire. This may 
partially be avoided by the use of a particular gridiron, which will 
presently be described. 

The Ordinary Gridiron. 

105. The ordinary gridiron is merely a square frame of iron, with 
cross bars of the same. An improvement upon this consists in making 
the upper surface of these bars concave or grooved, and all termi- 
nating in a hollow in the handle, so as to save a little of that rich 



BROILINQ, TOASTING, BBAISIKO. 55 

gravy which would otherwise fall into the fire. In theory this is very 
pretty, but in practice there is not much gain, as the bars do not bear 
a very large relative proportion to the open spaces between, and con- 
sequently they do not catch a great deal of the grayy. Before using a 
gridiron, it should be clean, and the upper surface should be well 
greased with lard or dripping, to prevent its sticking ; and it should 
be set slanting downwards towards the hand of the cook. A Pais of 
StbaK'TONOS are required for really-artistic broiling, but most ordi- 
nary cooks are content with the common fork. 

10& The Pibb for Bsoilino must be very dear, and free from 
smoke or flame. Charcoal, coke, or wood is the best ; but good coals, 
at a certain stage, answer eveiy purpose. A little salt thrown on the 
fire makes it bum much more clearly, and frees it from smoke. 

DiBECTIOKS FOR BbOILIKO. 

107. In broiling, after heating and larding the gridiron, put on the 
steak, chop, or other article, and continually turn it every half-minute, 
moving it gently all the time, to avoid the marks left by the bars if 
suffered to remain still. It is rather difficult to judge of the time when 
it is sufficiently done, especially as different people have such very 
different ideas of the proper degree of dressing. Nothing but experi- 
ence, and ascertaining whether they are liked well-done or under- 
done, will ensure satisfaction. When the concave enamelled gridiron 
is used, a little gravy of good flavour may be served ; but, otherwise, 
either the steak or chop must be eaten plain, or a made-gravy must be 
prepared beforehand. It is usual to dredge broiled articles with salt 
and pepper mixed, and sometimes having a little mushroom powder 
added to them. 

Sect. 3.-— ToASTixro Meats, &c. 

108. Chops, kidneys, pigeons, &c., may be done very effectually 
and nicely before the fire in a small Dutch oven or hanging oven. 
(See par. 52, and Jig, 112.) They require occasional turning and 
basting ; and the process is certainly more like roasting than frying or 
broiling. 

Sect. 4. — ^Braising. 

109. Braising is only a very elaborate method of baking or broiling, 
which has been introduced from France into this country of late years. 
It is, in fact, an air-tight oven, placed on a stove, mtih. a\^x8lm\i\^-\s«ix 



66 ENGLISH OOOSUBBT. 



on the top, 8o that the heat descends as well as ascends, and yet it is 
80 f^dnated that it does not canse much of the steam to escape. 
Although considered a French novelty, it differs in no respect hovt 
the old English *^ jagging," in which a hare is placed in a jar, corarad 
over closely, and then deposited in an oven, by which tlie same kind 
of heat is commnnicated ; and I fnlly belieye there is no cook lAo 
could tell a braised turkey done in the most artistic way, from another 
deposited in a braising-pan and then placed in an oven at the reqaized 
temperature. All the old receipts for stewing in covered pans in tiie 
oven depend upon the same principle ; that is,, that the article to be 
stewed should nearly fill the dish or jar, and should in ihat state, with 
very little but its own juice, be submitted to a low dry heat, with dosed 
doors, to obviate the loss by evaporation. A braising-pan is certainly 
a most convenient mode of carrying out the process, either with or 
without the oven, but it is by no means essential to it. 



CHAP. yiL— ON THE COOKING OP FISH BY BOILING, FRYING, ko. 

Sect. 1. — Gbkeral Beicabks. 

110. The Yabious Einob of Fish, with their seasons, and the best 
modes of procuring them, as well as their ordinary prices, will be- 
found given at length in the Economical Hottaekeeper, 

To Clean Fish. 

111. In cleaning fish, it is only necessary to remove the giUa^ and 
slit open the belly to take out the intestines, liver, &c., using plenty of 
fresh water ; but if the fishmonger does not perform his duty, fish is 
seldom very nicely cleaned; but in great towns it is washed beyond 
what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering dhnlnishes 
in flavour. When quite clean, if to be boiled, a table-spoonful of salt 
and two of vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness. 
Turbot, cod, whiting, and haddock, are far better if rubbed over with 
salt, and kept a day ; and, if it is not very hot weather, they will be 
good for two days. Fresh water fish has often a muddy smell and 
taste, to take off which soak it in strong salt and wateif after it Is mccdy 
cleaned ; or, if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then dzy, 
and dress it 



BOnJKG AND FRTINO FISH. 57 



UlEKSILS. 

112. For Boiling Small Fish, saucepans or fish-kettles of rarioiis 
are required ; and for large and long fish^ like salmon and tnrbot, 

a foll-Msed kettle called a tnrbot-kettle, of tin, is the proper article, 
containing a felse bottom perforated with holes to lift the fish out with 
in order to avoid breaking it (seeJigM. 133 and 134). For frying or 
broiling fish, nothing mm*e is wanted than the ordinary frying-pans and 
gridirons. (See pars. 98 and 105.) 

To Boil Fish, 

113. After cleaning and adding salt and vinegar (see par. Ill), the 
fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to boil very gentlj, or 
the outside will break before the inner part is done. The water should 
also be carefully skinmied, or the fish will look dirty, from the scum 
setting on it as it is taken out. Crimped fish should be put into boil- 
ing water ; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in to check 
extreme heat, on the principles advocated by Liebig, and explained at 
par. 85 ; after which simmer the fish for the proper number of minutes. 
If the fish is large, the fish-plate on which it is to be done may be 
drawn up to see if it is ready, when it will leave the bone. It should 
then be immediately taken out of the water on the plate, or it will 
Bomn h% woolly. The fish-plate should be set crosswise over the 
kettle, to keep hot for serring ; and a clean cloth should cover the fish 
to prevent it losing its colour. 

To Fry Fibh. 

114. For frying fish, it ought to be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, after 
it is well cleaned and washed. When perfectly dry, wet with an egg, 
and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it ; if done a second time 
with the egg and bread, at an interval of five minutes, the fish will 
look much better. Then, having a thick-bottomed and deep frying- 
pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling-hot, 
plunge the fish into it, and let it fry rather quickly, till the colour is of 
a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough 
before it has obtained a. proper degree of colour, the cook should draw 
the pan to the side of the fire, carefully take it up, and elthex '^Vsi^l^Sv 
on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that pur^o^i^ ^^^> 
or OB the underside of a dishy to drain ; and if wauled to \ooV "^crj 

weH a sheet of cap-paper must be put to receive the ft8h»\«\dc\i%\iO\i^s 



58 ENGLISH OOOKEBY. 

hayo a beaatifuL colour, and all tbe crumbs sbould appear distinct ; 
the &ih being free from all grease. The same dripping, with a litde 
fresh, will serre a second, third, and fourth time (see par. 97). 
Butter gives a bad colour ; oil fries of the finest colour for those who 
will allow the expense. It is customarj to garnish with a fringe or 
curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus dono>- 
When washed and picked, throw it again into clean water ; when the 
lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately frx>m the 
water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up 
with a slice ; this may be done after the fish is fried. 

To Broil Fish. 

115. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned with pepper and 
salt, fioared, and put on a gridiron that is yery clean ; which, when 
hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to preyent the fish from stick* 
ing. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste 
smoky ; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. 

Time Bequibbd to Dress Fish. 

116. The time required to dress fish will be appended to each kind ; 
but this must be considered only as a slight guide to enable the cook 
to calculate when to put her fish on the fire, as the reliable test is to bo 
found only in the exact state of the fish itself, and the readiness of tho 
flesh to leave the bone. 

Cutlets op Fish. 

117. Cat fish either cooked or uncooked into well-shaped cutlets; 
put plenty of chopped sweet herbs and a little butter into a stewpan, 
just to melt the batter; fiayour this with essence of anchoyies or 
Heading sauce ; when cold, lay it with a knife upon both sides of the 
fish, and strew over it plentifully fine bread crumbs ; fry dry in hot 
lard, or cook in a Dutch oven ; haye ready a sauce made of any yege* 
tables, and flavoured with a little onion or shallot, all of which must 
be stewed in a little broth, and chopped or rubbed through a cullender. 
Heap this in the centre of a dish and lay the cutlets round, garnishing 
with pickle or lemon sliced. 

If the fish is cooked, and is not large enough for cutlets, pull it fine 
and mix it with egg and crumbs, and the other ingredients ; then fona 
into cutlets, and dip into yolk of egg and strew crumbs before frying. 



DRESSING BITEB FISH. 59 

Fish Cakeb or Balls Fbibik 

Mash a few potatoes in batter or cream ; then take doable the 
Y of any dressed fish, after clearing off all bones and skin, 
irell with the potatoes, season with pepper and salt, and mace^ 
>Yed, and make it into cakes or ronnd balls, or pat in scallop- 
Frj them a light brown, and serYe in a napkin ; or, if in 
i, brown in a Dutch oven. 

To Warm up Fish the Second Dat. 

Salmon may be pat into boiling water, and just heated throngfa, 
care to add vinegar as at first. Tarbot| brill, and codfish are 
eked from the bones, and warmed ap with cream or white 
then mash some potatoes, and form a wall round a dish (which 
' may not be egged and browned), in which the fish is to be 
and senred. 

A Remaskablt Fine Fish Pie. 

Boil two pounds of small eels ; then having cut the fins quite 
pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor, with a 
lace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and 
it. Make forcemeat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon- 
eJt, pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, and 
Eit the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod or 
i torbot, and lay on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt 
epper. Four the gravy over, cover with paste, and bake, 
re to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles are used. 

PuLLEB Fish. 

One pound of meat pulled from the bones of any fish, two tea- 
ols essence of anchovies, two ounces of butter, one table-spoonful 
(tard, quarter of a pint of cream, crumbs of bread as for scalloped 
i, pepper and salt to taste, brown before the fire. 

Breakfast Dish of Fish. 

Take any white fish that has been dressed, break it up small, 
in a stewpan with a large lump of butter, add a large break- 
op full of boiled rice, a little cream, four hard boiled eggs, 
d, a little cayenne and salt ; mix all well together, make it c^tA 
He it in a dish, and send it to table. 



00 ENGLISH OOOKBBT* 



General Dibbotions to Picklb Fish. 

123. Wash and clean Trell the fish inside and out ; take oat the ribs 
and cut off the heads ; dry them weU with a cloth ; rub a Utile saltpetre 
on the backbone of each fish; season well inside and ontwidE Uaefc 
pepper, Jamaica pepper, and salt ; lay them one by one in a l^doB, 
with alternate layers of sliced onion and bay leaves ; poor oieer tfaeA 
some vinegar with water, according to taste, cover close, mad baks 
them in a bread oven, after the extreme heat has subsided. 

Sect. 3. — Spbcsal Dirbctsoks- for I^BBBnrG Biybr "Fisb, 

To Fry Trout awd GoAYLiNa. 

124. Scale, gut, and well wash; then dry them, and' fiiy Aem 
separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flonr orer 
them : or they may be egged and crumbed according to the directio!i» 
given at par. 114. Fry them of a fine colour, with fresh dripping. 
Serve with crimped parsley and plain butter. Time, from five to 
eight minutes. 

Trout a-la-Genbyoise. 

125. Clean the fish very well; put it into a stew-pan, adding half 
Champagne and half Moselle, or Bhenish, or sherry wine. Season it 
with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch 
of parsley and thyme ; put in it a crust of French bread ; set it on a 
quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and 
then thicken the sauce with it ; add fiour and a little butter, and let it 
boil up. See that the sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay the fish on 
a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and 
fried bread. 

Perch, Dacb, Boach, and Gudoeon;. 

126. These may be dressed in either of the above modes. (See pttcSi 
124 or 125.) 

Perch, Tench, and Carp. 

127. To Boil. — ^Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and 
sei-ve with melted butter and soy. Perch are most delicate fish. They 
may be also stewed ; but in stewing they do not preserve so good a 
fiavour. Time, five to fifteen minutes. 



€1 



128. To SiKir. — Scald and dean, take care of the roe, £e^ laj tlie 
fish m a Btew-pan with a rich heef-grmrT, an ooioii, eight clores, a 
desiert-spoonfiil of Jamaica pepper, ihe aame of black, add port-imie 
to the extent of a fourth part of theqaantitr of gnTr (cider mar do), 
gwwwtftf cloiely corered. When aearlj dose, add two aochories 
chopped fine, a desaeri-spoonfiil of made mastard, and aome fine 
walnat ketchup, a hit of hotter loQed in iour; shake it. and let die 
grary boil a few minutes. Senre with sippets of fned bread, the roe 
fried, and a good deal of honendidi and lemon. 

129. To Bake. — Clean a large carp; pnt m a staffing as for real 
(see Forcemeat) : sew it np, brash it all orer with jcSk of egg; and add 
plenty of cmmbs ; then drop on the top some cnled batter to baste it ; 
place the carp in a deep earthen dish, with a pint of stock, a few 
sliced onions, some bay-leaves, a fiigot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, 
parsley, and both sorts of marjoram], half a pint of port-wine, and 
six anchories ; cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be 
done before it is wanted. Poor the liquor frvun it, and keep the fish 
hot while jou heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in 
flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a tpoaoAd of 
soy. Serve the fish on the didi, iQamish with lemon, parsley, and 
horseradish, and pot tiie gravy into the aance-tnieen. 

JEXSLS. 

130. To SFTTcnoocKw — ^Take one or two huge eels, leave die skin on, 
open them on the beUy side, cut them into {neces of three inches long, 
clean nicely and wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, 
and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very 
little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the season- 
ing ; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine 
colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. 

131. To Frt. — If small, should be ended round and fiied, being first 
dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. If large, they should be skinned 
and cut into lengths, after which they are treated like the small ones. 

132. To Bon.. — ^The small ones are best. Do them in a small quan- 
tity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up 
with diem and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for 
sanc^ Time required, firom ten to fifteen minutes. 

133. To COii.i<AS.— Baoe alai^ eel, bnt do not &kdn \t \ mxi^V^x^ 
saJ^ jBMee, allapice, and*a clove or two, in the finest po\<i^«t, axAToX> 

iirer the whole inside; roU it t^ht and biad mtJi a coarofe ta^% \^^> 



62 ENQUSn COOKERY. 



in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the 
collar in pickle. Senre it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, 
parsley, and a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and sayonij, mixed 
with the spices, greatly improve the taste. 

134. To Stew. — Cut them in short pieces ; fry them a httlOf tbei 
pnt them in a stew-pan and season with salt, pepper, and nntmiqg; 
just cover with gravy, then pat in one onion stuck with eight dorei^ 
some mace, lemon-peel, and a little horseradish ; when half done add 
a handful of parsley cut small, a quarter of a pint of port-wine, and a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 

135. Eel Fie. — Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season 
with pepper and salt, and place in the dish with some bits of batter 
and a little water, and cover it with pnfif paste. 

Lamprbts akd Lampebns. 

136. To Stew Lampbets. — Mix spice enough in the following pro- 
portions, to rub in every part of the fish : one-fourth of mace, three- 
fourths of cloves pounded, as much pepper as the two, and nearly as 
much salt as the whole, adding a little cayenne ; stew down one calTs 
foot (or other good stock) as stiff as possible, taking the fat from it when 
cold ; adU to this jelly equal quantities of rough cider, walnut ketchup, 
and mushroom ketchup, making in the whole sufficient to cover the 
fish, which must be pinned up round to the size of the earthen pot 
intended to contain it : keep it in the stew-pan for an hour, letting it 
stew as slowly as possible, adding to it a glass of port-wine ten 
minutes before taking it up. It will do if the above are put into an 
earthen pot and set in the roaster or oven ; an anchovy, a little lemon 
pickle, and mushroom essence will be an improvement. 

137. To Pot. — ^The above seasoning, without the gravy, is right for 
potting lampreys, merely letting the fish stew for an hour in its own 
gravy, then putting it into pots, and pouring melted butter over it 
when cold. 

138. To Stew Lamperns. — ^The lampems should be well cleaned in 
salt and boiling water with a whisk ; put them to stew gently in a 
small quantity of good cider for about half an hour, then add some 
strong gravy and a sufficient quantity of spice, mixed as above, to make 
the dish palatable ; after stewing till they are tender, add some port* 
wine and a little walnut ketchup, with flour to thicken the gravy. 
Garnish the dish with horseradish. 



OOOKING SEA ITSO. 66 

Salmoit Fatties. 

50. Scrape some Salmon yerj fine with a knife, season it yeiy high 
1 cayenne, nutmeg, salt, &c., rub in some fresh batter, and mix the 
z of an egg with it. It m&j be enclosed in puff paste, or nmde 
le into cakes. 

Sbgt 3. — Special Bisegtionb for Cooking Sba Piss, 

TuRBOT, Bbill, or Flaicb. 

51. To Boil. — ^The tnrbot-kettle most be of a proper size, and in 
nicest order. Do not skin the fish, as I have known done bj an 
>nmt cook. Set it in cold water snfficient to cover it completelj, 
nw a handful of salt and a glass of yinegar into it, and let it grada* 

boil ; be careful that no blacks fall ; but skim it well, and thereby^ 
lerre the beauty of the colour. Sprinkle the belly, or white side, 
1 the roe of the lobster, and turn that side up. Serre it garnished 
1 a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horseradish. The 
56 should be the finest lobster, shrimp, or anchoyy, and plain 
tor, served plentifully in separate tureens. Time, about two 
utes per pound. 

52. To Frt. — Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; 
1 wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, and cover with crumbs 
read ; make some lard, or fine dripping, and two large spoonsful 
rinegar boiling hot ; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain 
om the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce* 
B mode is particularly adapted for plaice. 

Soles, 

53. Soles are skinned, and may be boiled in the same way as 
►ot. They are served with plain butter, or parsley and butter. 
le, about five or six minutes per fish. 

H, To Fry. — Skin them, and dry carefully with a cloth ; then 
in egg and bread-crumb, and fry as directed in par. 114. 
55. As Cutlets. — Take two or three soles, separate the flesh from 
backbone, and take off the heads, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the 
ie with salt, roll them np tight from the tail end upwards, and 
m with small skewers. If large or of middling size, put half a fish 
Bch roll — small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and 
ar with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and lYiCft. ^u\.mat% 



G4 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



14r». To Pot. — ^I'ake a large piece, scale and wipe, bnt do not wash 
it ; suit verv well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it^ 
then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper; lay in a few 
bay leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with bntter, and bake 
it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into thepotfto 
kcoj>, and wlien cold cover it with clarified butter. 

146. To CrnnY. — ^Broil slightly as above; then mix half an ounce 
of curry-i>owdcr to each pound of fish, with a good gravy or stock; 
Ftow (;eiitly in this for half an hour, and serve with rice as usual (see 
Curry, under Made-dishes). 

147. To Kim:R. — Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. 
Hub the whole with common salt after scaling it ; let it hang twentj- 
four hours to drain. Found three or four ounces of saltpetre, accord- 
ing to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of 
coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it 
on a largo disii or tray two days, then rub it well with common aalti 
and iu twenty-four hours more it will be fit to diy ; wipe it well after 
draiuing. Hang it either in a wood chimney or in a dry place, keeptn^ 
it o])cn witli two small sticks, or rub with brown pyroligneous add. 
Ki])pcrcd salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just wanned 
through, with egg sauce and mashed potatoes ; or it may be boiled, 
csj)ccially the part next the head. 

148. To Pickle. — After the salmon has been boiled as usual, let it 
drain till quite dry on a fish-drainer or cloth ; then put it into some of 
the following pickle : — ^Take of the water in which the fish was boiled 
and vinegar equal quantities, to which add a few peppercorns, a little 
mace, and a very little allspice ; boil for a few minutes, and let it 
stand till cool. The spice may be varied according to the taste ; id 
twelve hours it is fit to bo used ; but it will keep for weeks in cool 
weather, or in the summer by the addition of a little ice occamm- 
ally. 

149. To Collar. — Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient 
to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed atlti 
white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamuca pepper in quantity to 
season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and 
tie it up with broad tape, put as mnch water and one-third vinegar V 
will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover 
close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor qnicUj, 
and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is on elegant dish, -and 
txtreincly palatable. 



CX)OKINO SEA nsB. 65 



Salmoit Fatties. 

150. Scrape some Salmon Terjfine with a knife, season it yeiy high 
whh cayenne, nutmeg, salt, &c., rub in some fresh batter, and mix the 
ydk of an e^ with it. It may be enclosed in puff paste, or made 
akme into cakes. 

Sect S. — Special Disbctionb for Cookino Sea Piss. 

TuBBOT, Bbill, or Flaicb. 

151. To Bon*. — ^The tnrbot-kettle mast be of a proper size, and in 
die nicest order. Do not skin the fish, as I have known done bj an 
ignonuit cook. Set it in cold water safficient to cover it completely, 
tbarow a handfol of salt and a glass of yinegar into it, and let it gradn* 
ally boil ; be careful that no blacks fall ; bat skim it well, and thereby 
pt es ei re the beaaty of the coloar. Sprinkle the belly, or white side, 
vUh the roe of the lobster, and tarn that side ap. Serre it garnished 
with a complete fringe of carled parsley, lemon, and horseradish. The 
amoe ihonld be the finest lobster, shrimp, or anchoyy, and plain 
bqtter, served plentifully in separate tureens. Time, about two 
■urates per pound. 

15S. To "Far. — Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; 
dim wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, and cover with crumbs 
of bread; make some lard, or fine dripping, and two large spoonsful 
of vin^imr boiling hot ; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain 
H frooi the fist, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce* 
This mode is particularly adapted for plaice. 

Soles. 

158. Soles are skinned, and may be boiled in the same way as 
tmbot. They are served with plain butter, or parsley and butter, 
lime, about ^re or six minates per fish. 

154. To Frt. — Skin them, and dry carefully with a cloth ; then 
dip in egg and bread-crumb, and fry as directed in par. 114. 

155. Ab Cutlets. — Take two or three soles, separate the flesh from 
die backbone, and take off the heads, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the 
inside with salt, roll them np tight from the tail end upwards, and 
lutea with small skewers. If large or of middling size, put half a fish 
in eaeh roll — small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and 

with crumbs. Bo the egg over them again, and then put mot« 



G6 ENGUSH COOKERY. 



crumbs, and fry tli;:m a beautiful colour in lard, or, for fast-days, in 
clarified butter. 

156. Sole Pib. — Split some soles from the bones, and cut the fins 
close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and 
pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat eir 
cellcntly. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a hundred 
of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonfuls of 
broth, and some butter ; cover with paste. When the pie comes homc^ 
pour in a cupful of thick cream. 

Cod-fish. 

1 57. To Boil. — Some people boil the cod whole ; but a large head 
and shoulders contain all the parts that it is proper to dress, ihe 
thinner parts being OTcrdone and tasteless before the thick are ready* 
But as the whole iish may be purchased at times more reasonably, the 
lower half may be sprinkled with salt, and hung up, when it will be 
in high perfection in one or two days. Or, it may be made more salt^ 
and served with egg sauce, potatoes, and parsnips, as salt-fish. Cod, 
when small, is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh, it is watery; 
but eats excellently, if salted and hung up for a day to give it firmness, 
then stuffed and broiled. Boiled cod*s head and shoulders will be 
firmer, and have a better flavour, if a little salt is rubbed down the 
bone, and along the thick part, even if it is to be eaten the same day. 
Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water, which will completely 
cover it ; throw a handful of salt into this with a couple of spoonsful 
of vinegar. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest 
speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double 
parsley, lemon, horseradish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried 
smelts, if approved.. If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs 
about the fish ; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken ofi^ as well as 
their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and 
anchovy and butter. Time, about three minutes per pound. 

158. CniiiPED Cod, os Slices of Cod, must be put into boiling 
water, and after a space of three minutes, dash in cold water to lower 
the temperature; then finish as above. 

159. To Fry or Broil slices of cod-fish, proceed as directed in the 
general remarks at pars. 114 and 115. 

160. Cdrbt of Cod should be made of sliced cod, that ha& ^thtr 
been crimped or sprinkled for a day with salt to make it firm. "Fry it 
of a fine brown with onion; and stew it with a good white gravy, a 



oooKura sea fish. 67 



little cnny powder, a bit of butter and fionr, three or four spoonsful of 
rich cream, salt, aod add cajenne, if the powder is not hot enough. 

161. To Dress Salt Cod. — Soak and clean the piece to be dressed, 
then lay it all night in water, with a glass of yinegar. Boil it enough, 
then break it into flakes on the dish; pour over it parsnips boiled, 
beaten into a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large piece 
of butter, rubbed with a bit of flour. It may bo served as above with 
^g sauce instead of the parsnip, and the latter sent up whole. Or, 
the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, and sauces as 
above. Time, the same as for fresh cod. 

162. Cod Fie. — ^Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt 
it well one night. Next day wash it, and season with pepper, salt, 
and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, put some butter on 
it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a 
crust ; and when done add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of 
a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, 
and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. 

163. Salt Fish, which is too strong to be eaten dressed in this way, 
will be much improved by boiling it, and then mashing it up with 
potatoes in equal quantities, and browning before the fire in a Dutch 
oven. 

Cod Sounds Boiled. 

164. Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean ; 
and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water ; when tender, 
serve them in a napkin with egg sauce. The salt must not be much 
soaked out, unless for iricassee. 

165. To Look like Small Chickens. — TVash three large sounds 
nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold 
put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, 
nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread it over the 
sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it ; then 
lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast 
them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a 
fine oyster sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. 

166. To Broil. — Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the 
dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take them out, flour, 
and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with 
pepper, salt, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a little mustard ; give it a boil 
with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. 



68 SX0LI8H OOOKSBT. 



1S7. Ear Ragoct. — Prepare as aboTe; then stew them in white 
graTT, leamneH, cream, batter, and a little bit of floor added before 
joa serre, gently boiling np. A bit of lemon peel, nutmeg, and the 
least pinch of ponnded mace shonld gne the flaToar« 

Haddocks axd Whttiho. 

16S. To Bon. — ^Treat like cod-fish, the allowance f(tf time being 
Tery nearly the same, nnless Tery small, when it may be reduced one- 
thinL 

169. To Dmr. — Choose them of two or three ponnds' weight; take 
oat the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remoye the blood fh>m the back- 
bone ; wipe them dry, and pat some salt into the bodies and eyes; 
lay them on a board for a ni^t, then hang them np in a dry place^ 
and after three or foar days they will be fit to dress ; skin and rab 
them with egg; and strew crombs otot them ; lay them before the fire, 
and baste with batter until brown enough. Serve with egg sauce. 

170. WurrccGS, if large, sre excellent in this way ; and it will prove 
an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply of 
tish. 

Skatb. 

171. Skats, Thorxback, akd Maids (all usually sold as skate)^ 
shoald be hang one day at least before dressing. They may be boiled 
in slices (called crimped), or fried in crumbs with egg, or in butter. 

Mackerel. 

172. Boil till the tail splits, and serve with butter and fennel. The 
time is usually aboat ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes, according to size. 

173. To Broil them, split them and sprinkle with herbs, ]>epper, 
and salt ; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped fenneL 

174. Collared, as eel (page 61). 

175. Potted. — Clean, season, and bake them in a pan with mixed 
spice, bay-leaves, and some butter ; when cold, lay them in a pottiog- 
pot, and cover with butter. 

176. Pickled. — Boil them, then boil some of the liquor with a fev 
peppercorns, bay-leaves, and a third part of the quantity of vinegar ; 
when cold, pour it over them. 

177. Another Method of Pickling. — Clean and divide them, then cut 
each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five 
or six pieces ; to six large mackerel take nearly an ounce of pcp^^^i 



DXESSDIG SHKLL FISH. 09 

two nntmegSy a Ihtle mace, four doTcs, mad a handfiil of lak, all is 
the finest powder; mix and, making hoiea in each hit of fish, thratt 
the seasoniDg into them, and mb each piece with aone of it ; then fir 
them in brown oil; let them stand till etAd, then pot them into 9 
■tone jar, and cover with rin^ar ; if to keep lon^ poor oil on the top. 
Thus done, they may be preserred for months. 

178. Macksrkl Pik will do well, the fish being treated in the 
way as described for cod at page 65, bnt do not salt them till 
Parsley, picked and pnt in, may be osed instead of oysters. 

RkdMcixet. 

179. Clean from the gills and small intestines, but leare the rest is 
the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish ; make 
a sance of the liqnor that comes from the fish, with a piece of batter, 
a little flonr, a little essence of anchory, and a glass of sherry; gire it 
a boil, and senre in a boat, and the fish in the paper 



To Dkess Fipess. 

180. Boil or Bake them with a pnddinfi^ well-seasoned, like pike. 
If baked, pnt a large cnp of rich broth into the dish, and when done, 
take that, some essence of anchory, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil 
them np together for a sauce. 

To Frt Smelts. 

181. They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean 
them ; dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake it off; 
dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs grated fine, and 
plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard ; continue gently boiling, 
and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow brown ; take care 
not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will 
be lost, and for this purpose use the wire frame (aeejig. 132). 

HeBRIHGB ASTD StPRATS. 

182. To Frt. — ^Do them of a light brown, with onions sliced, and 
senre them rery hot. 

183. To Broil. — ^Flour them first, and do of a good colour; plain 
butter for sauce. 

184. To Pot. — ^Do them as for mackerel (which see). 

185. To Cure as Bloaterb. — Clean, and lay them in salt and u 
little saltpetre one night; then hang them on a stick, xYoo^o^ ^Sdi^ 



70 SNGLIBH CX>OKERT. 



eyes, in a row ; have ready an old cask, in which pat some sawdnsti 
and in the midst of it a heater red-hot ; fix the stick oyer the smoke, 
and let them remain twenty-four hours. 

186. To Dress Red Hersings. — Choose those that are large and 
moist, cut them open, pour some hoiling small-beer over them, and let 
them soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot 
tlirongh before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and 
8er>'e. Ejrg-sance, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes, should be 
sent up with them. 

187. To Bake. — Wash and drain, without wiping them; season 
with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few old cloves. Lay them in 
a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves; 
add half vinegar and half small-beer enough to cover thenu Tie 
paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If approved, throw 
saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut 
through the vent, but do not open them. 

Sect. 4. — Special Directioks for Dressiiyo Shell Fish. 

Lobsters, Crayfish, Prawi7S, and Shrimps. 

188. To Boil. — Put them into a pot of boiling water; the lobsters 
must not remain any longer than fifteen or twenty minutes, unless 
very large indeed. From the shells and small claws bruised will be 
extracted a juice that will much improve the sauce. When cold, split 
the tail down the middle, and crack the claws, for which purpose 
nothing serves so well as the chink at the hinge of a back-kitchen door, 
riace the body in the middle, half a tail on each side, and the large 
claws top and bottom. 

189. To Roast. — After boiling the lobster, take it out of the shell, 
and while hot rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Continue 
basting it with butter till it has a fine froth ; then serve. 

190. To Stew. — Pick the lobster, put the berries into a pan in a 
warm bath, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of 
any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut ketchup, a little salt and 
cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster cut into bits with 
the gravy as above. 

191. To PoT.-^Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut into small 
bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into 
a pot and cover with butter, bake half an hour ; put the spawn in. 
When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little 



DBESSINO SHELL FISH. 71 



of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the 
spawn ; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be saf- 
fieient to coyer the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if 
approved. 

Another Receipt, — ^Boil them till half done, take out all the meat, &c. 
(the tail and claws whole). Skin the tail, season it with pepper and 
salt, mace, and the least possible of nutmeg ; bake an hour and half, 
with butter enough to cover them, having tied them over very closely. 
When cool, press closely in pots, mixing as much of the liquor they 
were baked in as will colour it highly ; cover the pots when cold with 
clarified butter. 

192. To Pot Prawns and Shbihps. — ^They should be selected as 
large as possible. When boiled take them out of the skins, and season 
them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press 
them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold cover 
them with a layer of clarified butter. 

193. Shbimp Pib (JExceUenty — ^Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are 
very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince 
two or three anchovies : mix these with the spice, and then season 
the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and cover 
the shrimps with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must be light 
and thin. They do not take long baking. 

194. CuBRT ov liOBSTERS OR pRAWNS. — ^Tako them from the shells, 
and lay in a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonsful 
of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one or two tea-spoonsful 
of curry-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; sim- 
mer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. 

195. Lobster Rissoles. — Extract the meat of a boiled lobster, 
mince it fine as possible, and mix with it the coral pounded smooth, 
and some yolks of hard-boiled eggs pounded also. Season it with 
cayenne pepper, powdered mace, and a very little salt. Make a 
batter of beaten egg, milk, and flour. To each egg allow two large 
table-spoonsful of milk, and a large tea-spoonful of flour. Beat the 
batter well, and then mix the lobster with it gradually, till it is stiff 
enough to make into oval balls, about the size of a large plum. Fry 
them in the best salad oil, and serve them up either warm or cold. 

196. Lobster Pik. — Boil two lobsters (or three small), take out 
the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, 
and lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws and that 
picked out of the body ; pick off the furry parts from the latter, and 



72 ENGLISH OOOKEBT. 



take oat the lady ; beat the spawn and all the shells in a moitar, and 
set them on to stew with some water, two or three spoonsful of vinegar, 
pepper, salt, and some pounded mace : a large piece of butter rolled 
in floar, most bo added when the goodness of the shells is brought 
oat Give a boil or two, and poar into the dish strained. Strew some 
crumbs, and put a paste over alL Bake slowly, but only till the 
naste be done. 

197. Croqi'ettes of Lodster. — ^Pound or chop fine the fleshy part 
of a lobster, and add a quarter as much of sifted bread crumbs, season 
with pepper, salt, anchovy, and a little mace, and add a little vinegar 
or lemon juice, and a few spoonsful of cream, if no white sauce be at 
hand. Warm it, and beat in the yolk of an egg. When cool, make it 
into cither round or oval balls, or fiat cakes ; dip in egg and crumbs, 
and fry them dry in lard. 

198. LoBSTBR Fatties. — Make them with the same seasoning as 
for oysters, adding a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. 

Another. — Roll out some very light puff paste to a little more than 
half an inch in thickness. Cut it with a fluted paste-cutter, either in 
round or oval shapes ; then with another cutter a size smaller. Mark 
them half through ; dipping this cutter into hot water to prevent the 
paste from adhering to it. Bake ten minutes or more, according to the 
state of tlic oven, and while hot, take out the portions that have been 
cut through with the small cutter, and scoop out the crumbs — ^the lid 
may be laid on again or not. Fill with lobster prepared as for croquettes 
(par. 197). N.B. — ^This forms a more dressy patty than those ordi- 
narily made. 

199. To Force Lobsters. — ^Boil them well, and take out the bodies, 
and the meat from the feelers, and mix with it one or two boiled whit- 
ings, and two anchovies chopped fine, two eggs beaten, a piece of butter, 
some thyme, parsley, shalot, and pepper and salt. Fill the bodies again 
with this mixture, and bake half-an-hour. Serve cold with the tail cut 
in half, and with the claws arranged round the bodies. 

Crabs. 

200. To Boil.— Proceed as for lobsters. 

201. To Dress Hot. — After picking the meat out of the shell, season 
It with pepper and salt Then wash the shell clean, and after making 
the white meat hot in a saucepan, lay it in the shell with the soft part 
at top ; strew crumbs of bread, and brown it over. 

202. To Dress Cold.— Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with 



BBvssnro shell fish. 7i 

oil, yinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and cayenne ; then put 
the mixture into the large shell, and senre ; rerj little oil is necessary, 
and by some people it is altogether disliked. 

Otstjebs. 

203. To Fexd. — ^Pnt them into water, and wash them with a birch- 
besom till quite clean ; then lay them round side doifi-n wards in a pan ; 
sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and coTcr with water ; do the 
tame every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty 
salt, and rather more so than sea-water. Bay salt is the best for the 
purpose when it is at hand. 

204. To BoHm — Open the shells, and clean and drain them into 
boiling water; thep drop the oysters into a saucepan of boiling water, 
and boil them gently for three or four minutes. Serre in the shells 
with a little cold butter, vinegar, and pepper. 

205. To Stew. — Open and separate the liquor from them, then 
wash them from the grit ; strain the liquor, and put with the OTSters 
a bit of mace or lemon-peel, and a few white peppercorns. Simmer 
them very gently, and put some cream and a little flour and butter 
Serve with sippets. 

206. To Boast. — Place the oysters unopened between the bars of a fire 
or in a charcoal stove. They require about six or eight minutes' time. 

207. To ScALix>p. — ^Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, 
into scallop-shells or saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. 
Cream mixed with the bread is a great improvement. 

208. To Fbt. — Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a 
very little with pepper and salt, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a 
fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, 
and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

209. Dutch Oysters. — Roll rock oysters in yolk of egg, then dip 
them in grated bread crumbs and white pepper, one by one, and fry 
them in butter : serve with melted butter in a sauce-tureen. 

210. As LoAVSS. — Open them and save the liquor ; wash them in 
it ; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser 
with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a 
little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; put them into rolls sold for 
the purpose. 

211. As Sausages. — ^Take a quarter of a pound of chicken or veal, 
three ounces of crumbs of bread, one ounce of beef-suet, thirty oysters 
chopped, and half the yolk of an egg ; to be seasoned with mace, 



7 4 BNGLISH COOKEBT. 



cayenne, and black pepper, and made either into balls, or of a long 
form, and fried. To be served with a rich brown gravj. 

212. As Toast. — ^Pour some well-thickened and flayonred ojster^ 
sauce upon a buttered toast. The number of oysters is from two and 
n half to three score, depending on the size of the comer-dish. This 
U very good for a top or bottom dish in a second course. 

213. To Fickle. — ^Wash four dozen of the largest oysters yon can 
get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to 
it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of 
salt, unless the liquor is already yery salt, three of white wine, and 
four of vinegar. 

2li. Oystek Fatties. — ^Fut a fine puff-paste into small patty-pans, 
and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; a|||J against they are 
baked have ready the following to fill them with, after taking out the 
bread : — ^Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts into 
small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, a very 
little white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel cut so small that 
you can scarcely see it, a very little cream, and a little of the oyster 
liquor, bimmer for a few minutes before filling ; then serye. 



CHAP. VIII.— SOUP-MAKING, SOUPS. AND BROTHS. 

Sect. 1. — Genebal Hemabks. 

215. Upon the management of this department depends, in great 
measure, the degree of economy or waste going on in any establish- 
ment. It will always happen, and especially in large families, that 
there are refuse bones and pieces of meat, which are left either in the 
dish or in the piates. Every scrap of these should be collected to- 
gether, with any odds and ends of all kinds of animal food, such as 
heads and necks of poultry, trimmings of meat, &c. If these are not 
approved of for the house, they will, at all events, afford good useful 
soup for the poor, who will, many of them, be grateful for the broth or 
soup produced from them. Besides these, the boilings of all meat and 
poultry should be saved, and the strength increased by adding bones, 
scraps, &c. The liquor from salt-meat is too salt, and part only must 
be mixed with more boilings of water to form the foundation for all 
sorts of soups, gravies, &c. ; the liquid thus furnished being on this 
account called by the name, "stock." 



SOUP-MAKIirO, SOUPS, AND BROTHS. 75 

— -'^ — - 1^ 

Sect. 2. — ^Thb Utensils. 

216. These are — Ist, the digester; and, 2nd, the stock pot. 

The Digestes. 

217. Usually named after its inventor, Pepin (see Jig, 129), is a 
itrong iron vessel with a moveable handle, by which it may be sus- 
pended over the fire. In the centre of the lid is a metal valve, which 
should always be attended to, as it might otherwise rust in its socket, 
and occasion the bursting of the pot. A little grease prevents this, 
but the greatest preventive is cleanliness. Besides this valve, which 
allows the steam to escape as soon as it rises with sufficient force to 
overcome the weight of the piece of metal, there is a peculiar adapta- 
tion of the lid, by which it is very securely closed. It is not only placed 
upon the top of the digester, but, by a twist, it is hooked under three 
projecting arms (see Jig. 129), and is consequently kept down closely, 
its under surface being ground to correspond with the upper edge of 
the pot. When, therefore, the bones, &c., are placed in the digester 
with water, and the lid adapted to it properly, the heat is raised con- 
siderably above 212 degrees, because the pressure is greater than 
that of the atmosphere by the weight of the valve. The conseqaenp 
is, that bones are compelled to give out their gelatine, and are left 
almost vnth nothing but their lime. This is the most economical cf 
all cooking utensils, and is the means of saving an immense amount 
of nutritive matter; but it is of no use whatever unless the lid is 
aecarelj adapted to the pot. 

The Stock -pot. 

218. This is merely a common saucepan, with a well- fixed lid (Jig, 
130;. It is intended for the slow boiling of meat in the liquor which 
has come out of the digester irom the bones. Some people use the 
digester as a stock-pot, but it is better to put the bones in by them- 
selves with any pieces of gristle, as much more gelatine is dissolved by 
water than by a strong soup made from meat ; besides which, the 
increased temperature in the digester is unfavourable to the solution 
of the meat. At all events, the bones should be first boiled, and the 
meat added afterwards ; but the better plan is to boil the bones first, 
and extract every thing from them ; then pour off into the stock pot, 
and add what meat or other soft bits may be intended to be used, 
stewing them for some hours very slowly. Most soups will require 



76 ENGLISH OOOKKRT. 



from fuur to six Iiours* gentle boiling, and almost all should be prepared 
the day before they arc to be used, by which plan they may be allowed 
to become cold, when the fat collected on the top, and become solid, 
intiy easily be separated. If all the fat is not removed, a piece of clean 
silver paper passed over the surface will efFcctually get rid of it. 

Se3T. 3. — SOUP-KAKINO. 

219. In making the yarious sorts of soups, three different kinds of 
gohitinons solutions are alluded to— 1st, hoUings^ which mean the 
water in which meat has been boiled ; 2nd, brown stock, which is soup 
made from beef, and cow-heels, or knuckle of veal, with or withoat 
tlio nddition of any boilings ; and 3rd, white stock, which is made from 
veal, or any white meat, as chickens, turkey boilings, &c. ; — besides 
those are mentioned browning and gkue, which will be presently de^ 
sciibed. 

To ^Iakg Good Stock, 

220. Put whatever bones are at hand in the digester (previously 
breaking them in pieces) ; boil them for three or four hours at least, 
then pour off the liquor into the stock-pot, and add to each gallon the 
meat off a knuckle of Tcal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the 
lean of a pammon of bacon, all sliced, with two or three scraped 
carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two 
quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it bum. 
"When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white 
gravy. If for brown gravy, add colouring, and boil a few minutes. 
One knuckle of veal, two pounds of lean beef, or a shin of beef, 
a quarter of a pound of ham, with a cow-heel, will make sufficient 
soup for a party of eighteen. A little Indian soy, or shalot wine, 
is a great improvement in flavouring brown soups. A little sugar 
improves almost every soup. When you make any kind of soup — 
particularly portable, vermicelli, or brown gravy soup, or any sonp 
that has roots or herbs in, always observe to lay these last over the 
meat, cover it close and set it over a very slow fire ; this will draw all 
the virtue out of the roots or herbs, and give the soup a very different 
flavour to that which it has when water is put to it at first. When 
the gra\7' is almost dried up, fill the pan with water, and as soon as it 
begins to boil take off the fat, and follow the directions of the receipt 
according to the sort of soup which it is desired to make. When it is 
desired to make old peas soup, take sofi water ; but for green peas 



TO GLASIFT STOCK. 77 



bard is the best : it keeps the peas a better oolovr. To make a ^ 
•oap do not put in the cream till jcm take it off the fire. Ahrajsdishap 
•oaps the last thing ; if it ispeassonp^ it often settles and looks thin. 

A Good Bbowh Stock. 

221. Cut in pieces a shin <^ beef and a knnckle of veaL Sab a 
qaarter of a pound of batter on the bottom of a stewpan which will 
hold two gallons of water, and pot in the meat with half a pint of 
water, a little salt, three or four onions, a tnmip, a carrot or two. a 
head of celery, and one or two leeks — add a few dores and a little mace ; 
pot the stewpan orer a sharp fire (oecasionallj stirring the whole 
with a wooden spoon) tiU it beccmies of a brown coloor, and the ftcw- 
pan is coTered with a thickish glaze, then fill np the pan with cold 
water, and, when on the point of boiling, draw it off the fire and sJimer 
very gentlj for three or fonr honrs. Skim it freqnenthr, stiain throB^ 
% hair siere and it is readj for nse. From this maj be made anj 
brown soup, as clear grayj soup, ox tail, Jnliemie soap, 4c 

To Makb Stock vor Bsowk oh Whits Fish Soups. 

222. Take a pound of skate, four or fire floonden, and two pomds 
of eels ; dean them well, and cut them into pieces ; cover them with 
water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with 
doTCS, a head of celeiy, two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. Simmer an hour and a half dosely corered, and then strain it 
off for nse. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and 
then do as aboTC. It will not keep more than two or three days. 

Glaze. 

223. Glaze is a boiled-down animal jelly, made from the stock as 
aboTe ; but aroiding the use of salt, as when boiled down snfiSdently 
it would be too strong of that saline material. It only requires care 
not to bum it, and should be properly strained. A quart of stock will 
only make about a spoonful of glaze ; and as it consists almost entirely 
of gelatine, the portable soups sold in the shops answer all the purpose 
at much less trouble and cost ; indeed, glaze itself may be bought 
there cheaper than it can be made at home. 

To Clarift Stock. 

224. To Clarify Stock, which process is now often wanted, as it is 
the fiuhion to nse it dear in mock-turtle and many other soups^ which 



KNQUSH OOOKBRT. 



wore formerly thickened, the following method mnst be adopted: — 
Put the stock over a good fire, and when boiling add the white of one 
egg to each quart of stock, proceeding as follows : — Beat the eggs.np 
in a little water, then add a little hot stock, beat to a froth, and ponr 
gradually into the pot, when the whole is to be whisked. Boil op, and 
immediately remove and strain through a fine sieve or cloth. 

Bbowkino for Soups and Gravies. 

2 '2 5. Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an 
oiiDco of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle 
fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon till of a bright brown ; then add half 
a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when cold bottle and cork it close. 
Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. 

Another, — Put four ounces of pounded loaf sugar into a frying-pan, 
with one ounce of butter ; set it over a clear fire and stir it ; when it is 
frotlir, and the sugar is dissolving, hold it higher till it becomes a deep 
brown, pour in by degrees a third of a pint of port-wine, add a little 
lemon-pccl, salt, three spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a little mace, 
six cloves, an onion, and some allspice, boil all slowly for ten minutes, 
skim it, pour it into a basin, and when cold bottle for use. 

Browned Flocr for Colourixo and Thickening Soups and 

Gravies. 

22r». Browned Flour for Colouring and Thickening Soaps and 
Gravies, m.iy be made by spreading some flour upon tins in a cool 
oven, and carefully watching and turning it lest the edges should 
become too dark. Keep it in a diy place, and mix with butter when 
used. 

Sect. 4. — "Receipts for Soups. 

Mutton Broth with the Meat in. 

227. Cut a neck of mutton into chops, taking off every bit of fat four 
hours before dinner ; put it in the stewpan, and pour it nearly full of 
boiling water ; cut in slices four carrots and six small turnips, and put 
in the pan at the same time ; let it simmer and boil till dinner-time ; 
flavour with salt, and skim off the fat. Some people add an ounce or 
two of rice with the vegetables. 

To Make Mutton or Veal Broth. 

228. Take one pound of meat, free from the bone, and pnt it on the 
fire with a quart of water ; when it boils skim it as clear as possible^ 



TO ICAKE CLEAB ORAYY SOUP. 79 

then add a little more cold water, which will make the scam rise 
afresh ; then take it off, and season with parsley root about the size of 
two fingers, a small carrot, aQ onion or two, a blade of mace (and 
about two ounces of clean bacon if you like this addition) ; boil it an 
hour and a half at least, till the meat is tender ; then strain it. It 
may be made with mutton, beef, or Teal, or the three combined. 

To Make Gravy Soup. 

229. Fry three or four pounds of meat, then fry half a dozen carrots 
and turnips, after which fry three or four onions, taking care not to 
let them bum ; stew altogether with a little pepper, salt, a cIotc or 
two, and a stick of celery ; strain it ; when cold skim off the fat, and 
boil it up again with the white of three or four eggs to clear it ; strain 
it through a cloth; it is then fit for use. Soak half a rasped roll in a 
little grayy, and stick it with almonds, to put in the soup when in the 
tureen ; or, as is generally preferred, add some yermicelli, or ma- 
caroni made in small shapes for the purpose, or the piped macaroni 
cut in short lengths. (It forms a pleasing variety to add, instead of 
the above, some pieces of carrot cut long and thin, or in their season a 
few heads of asparagus cut in short lengths and made tender, but not 
to break. These make it like Julienne soup.) 

To Make Clear Gravy Soup, 

230. Take a slice of beef, a piece of knuckle of veal, a small slice of 
lean ham or bacon, two or three carrots according to size^ one large or 
two small turnips, six onions, a little parsley, two heads of celery and a 
small bunch of sweet herbs ; cat the meat into small slices, and put it 
into a stcwpan that will hold about six quarts, with about two ounces 
of butter, and the vegetables and herbs; cut the vegetables into 
moderate-sized pieces, and slice the onions; add half an ounce of 
black peppercorns, half an ounce of allspice, a blade or two of mace, 
about six cloves, and as much salt as you think necessary ; put the 
stewpan over a brisk fire, and let it fry all together, keeping it 
frequently stirred to prevent its burning; as soon as it becomes of a 
light-brown colour fill up the stewpan with cold water, and just before 
it boils pull it off the fire and let it just simmer four or five hours ; skim 
it frequently, strain through a sieve, and when cold take off every 
particle of grease, and it is fit for use ; add a little pepper and salt if 
required: it is seldom served without something being put into it, 
either Italian paste, which you may buy at any Italian warehouse^ a.\!l4«X 



80 ENGLISH OOOKSRY* 



some grocers, or a little macaroni, haying preTionslj boiled it in water 
till it is soft, and then it is nsnal to hand grated Parmesan cheese, and 
sometimes semolina is served with it: the meat may be boiled a 
second time ; it will make stock for some other kind of inferior soup. 

Meat Soup voh Family Usb or Viluloe Distbibutiok. 

231. To make 120 quarts, use fifteen or twenty pounds of beef, half 
a bushel of turnips, a quarter of a peck of carrots, a quarter of a peck 
of onions, one peck of peas (or, instead of peas, three pounds of rice), 
one large spoonful of bruised celery-seed, three quarters of a peck of 
flour, or rather more; one ounce and a quarter of pepper, and the 
third of a peck of salt. The bones should be broken in pieces and 
Fe])arately boiled in a digester in half the water, and the liquor 
added to the remainder in which the meat and T^etables are boiled* 

Veal Bboth. 

232. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, with two 
ounces of well-washed rice, or, what is still better, the same quantity 
of sago thoroughly washed, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the 

liquor is half wasted away. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

233. Boil an ox-tail, divided at the joints, slowly in a pijit of water 
with a small lump of butter or good beef-dripping, for three hours, till 
the water is reduced one- half; then add half a carrot and turnip, an 
onion, and a small head of celery, a little lemon, and common thyme 
and parsley. Five or six peppercorns and a pinch of cayenne should 
be added, and also a tea-spoonful of salt. When the vegetables are 
quite tender, take them out and pulp them through a coarse sieve^ 
after which mix with them two table-spoonsful of flour, and rub all up 
with the gravy in the stewpan ; then add three pints of boiling water, 
stining it in. Finally, boil up for a few minutes, and add a little 
browning, or good brown gravy. It may be made clear by omitting 
the flour. 

234. Fob Clear Ox-tail Soup, nothing farther than the stock, 
for which a receipt is given at par. 221, will be required, except 
ox- tails cut through at each joint, and boiled tender in a stewpan. 
Add a little more salt and pepper. 

235. For Thick Ojl-tail Soup, thicken the same with flour and 



MDLUGATAWNT SOUP. 81 



batter, and if approved put a glass of sherry or madeira wine into the 
tnreen before pouring in the soup. 

Ox-cheek Soup. 

236. Ox-tail Soup is merely the stewed ox-eheek (which see), 
with the soup somewhat reduced, and, if approved of, thickened like the 
-ox-tail soup. 

Pot-au-Feit. 

237. The celebrated French Pot-au-Feu, according to the recog- 
nised authority of M. Soyer, consists of six pounds of beef, four quarts 
of water set near the fire, and skimmed ; when nearly boiling, add a 
spoonful and a half of salt, half a pound of liver, two carrots, four 
turnips, eight young or two old leeks, one head of celery, two onions 
(one of them burnt), with a clove in each, and a piece of parsnip. 
Skim again, and simmer four or five hours, adding a little cold water 
now and then ; take off part of tlie fat, put slices of bread into the 
tureen, lay half of the vegetables over, and half the broth, and 
serve the meat (boutUt) separately with the other half of the vege- 
tables. 

FsENCH Soup (vkit Good and Cheap). 

238. A sheep's head and pluck boiled gently in a gallon of water 
till reduced to half the quantity, a small teacupful of pearl-barley, 
dx large onions, one turnip, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
a few cloves and peppercorns. Add a little mushroom ketchup, and 
thicken with some fiour rolled in a lump of butter. It is better to 
boil it the day before ;t is wanted. Cut the meat off the head in 
slices as for hashed calfs head (taking it out for this purpose as soon 
as it is sufRciently tender), and then into small squares, which must 
be put into the soup again when it is wanned up for use. Finish it 
ap with forcemeat and little egg-balls, and a teacupful of white wine, 
Hrhich, with the addition of a Kttle sugar, makes it nearly equal to 
nock-turtle. 

Mulligatawny Soup. 

239. Take a knuckle of veal five pounds weight ; put it on with 
mough water to cover it. When it is about half done take it off; cut 
;he meat in slices, put it in a cool place till the next day, then take 
iie fiU off and fry the veal in a little butter, and put it in the soup 



83 EirOLISH OOOKEBT. 



with four dessert-spoonsful of cuny-powder, a little salt, and four 
onions sliced and fried in batter. Let all simmer together for two 
hours; if too thin, thicken it with flour and butter. Serre it up 
with rice in another dish. 

Another, — ^Take four pounds of beef, one and a half of scrag of 
mutton, two of ham, and a knuckle of Teal ; cut in small pieces, and 
put in a gallon of water ; reduce to two quarts ; add two onions, four 
turnips, and plenty of carrots. Strain it off, let it cool, take off the 
flit, and warm it up with two or three sticks of celery, and rub it 
^ through a sieve ; put it back in the sauce-pan, and add walnut or 
mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of curry-powder, a little cayenne 
pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Prepare rice as for curry to hand, 
round with it. 

MocK-TuRTLB Soup 

240. Halve a calf's head, take out the brains, and put as much 
water as you wish to make soup, with sweet herbs, parsley, a few 
onions, and some lemon peel. Stew it gently until the meat is tender; 
then take it out and let it get cold ; thicken the soup with a little flour 
and butter, and strain it through a sieve. Add sherry wine, a little 
walnut and mushroom ketchup, pounded mace, and cayenne. Take 
the brains and beat them up with a little flour and two eggs into a 
light batter, adding pepper and salt, and some parsley chopped very 
fine ; then take the yolks of two eggs and beat them up ; make them 
into as many portions as you please, tying each in a bit of muslin, and 
boil them in little round balls ; the batter made with the brains is to 
be fried into cakes a light brown. When the head is cold it must be 
cut into small pieces and laid in the gravy, the cakes and eggs, with 
some forcemeat balls, to be laid on the top of the soup just before it la 
sent to table. Every particle of fat must be removed from the surface 
before warming the soup for the table. 

Another Receipt. — Cut one neat's foot and two calf's feet in thin 
slices; if you like ox palates, six will do, and in that case only one 
calf's foot will be required. Boil these till tender enough for a 
fricassee. Put them into a full quart of good mutton-gravy, entirely 
free from fat ; cover it down plose, and let it stew gently rather more 
than three-quarters of an hour with the following — one large onion, 
one dozen of bearded oysters and their liquor, and some lemon peel, 
a large bunch of sweet-herbs, a good-sized anchovy, some salt, nnt- 
tneg, and cayenne. The onioui oysters, herbs, anchovy, and lemoa 



HABS SOUP. 8S 



peel most be chopped yery fine, and half a pint of madeira or sherrj 
wine added just before it is sent to table ; squeeze in half a lemon, 
and put in egg and forcemeat-balls, if approTed of, the balls being 
well-seasoned. About three-quarters of a pound of scrag of mutton 
will make the gravy. 

Another and Plainer JReceipt, — Scald the hair off a calTs head, but 
leaye the skin on. Make three pints of stock with three pounds of mutton 
or Teal, flavour with whole pepper, mace, onion and sweet herbs. Cut 
the outside of the head (the clear part till you come to the flesh) in 
pieces two or three inches square, stew it in the soup two or three 
hours till tender, add cayenne, the rind of half a lemon, and madeira 
wine ; serve with the meat and egg balls. The remainder of the head 
will boil. 

241. MocK-TURTLB SouF (^CUar), — ^Either of the above receipts 
may be made clear by thickening them with arrowroot instead of flour, 
and clarifying them (see par. 224). When this mode is preferred, the 
soup is served without forcemeat or egg-balls. 

Hare Soup. 

242. Cut a large old hare in small pieces, and put it in a jug with a 
little lean ham, some celery, two onions sliced, a buncli of sweet herbs, 
quarter of a pint of red wine, and three quarts of water. Stew it, 
closely covered, for two or three hours, till the meat is done to rags. 
Strain ofl* the soup and take the meat from the bones, pound the meat 
in a monar, add it to the soup till it is of a proper thickness, give it a 
boil up, and add two teaspoonsful of soy and one of ketchup, with 
cayenne pepper and salt, and a little moist sugar. The brains may be 
made with the stewed and pounded liver into forcemeat balls, or the 
liver may be pounded with the meat for thickening the soup. Some 
prefer to add the port-wine before serving, in which case a good glass 
would be sufficient ; a small quantity of excellent soup may be made 
from the remains of a roast hare ; in this case a little thickening of flour 
and butter also may be required. A clear soup may he made by 
stewing the hare in some veal or other light stock, and extracting the 
goodness of the meat by stewing for two or three hours without 
adding pounded meat to the soup. More wine in this case must be 
added, and a little of the meat may be served in squares in the soup. 

Another. — ^Take a hare, and after skinning it don't soak it in water in 
the usual way, but cut it up into pieces, put it into a stewpan, also 
three or four heads of moderate sized celery, and the same of ouiQ\i%^^\A 



84 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



a very small bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and about 
fuur or eight cloyes ; add a gallon of water, and let it stew one and 
half hour ; then take out the back or any other part, and cat off meat 
enough to serve with it when done, put back the bones into the stew- 
pan, and let it stew four or five hours longer. Next strain it through 
a sieve, and pound in a mortar the whole of the meat off the bones, 
ndd celery and onions, cut as fine as you can, and then rub through a 
sieve (of course not the pieces which you have previously cut off to 
serve with the soup), put it back to the soup and let it stew another 
hour, and serve with the pieces of meat in it, and if you like a few 
forcemeat balls ; should it not be thick enough add a little thickening. 
Another, ■ Cut a hare in pieces, stew it in any broth or boilings of 
meat that happen to be in the house till it is tender, then cut off, 
pound, and rub through a sieve the best part of the meat, with a little 
of the stock. When that is done return all the bones, &c., to the 
stock-pot (if the hare is small and the stock not good, add some gravy, 
beef, and a little lean ham) — one onion, some sweet herbs, a little 
fiour and butter mixed, mushroom ketchup and cayenne, and simmer 
for three or four hours ; then strain it, and add the pounded hare, a 
little currant jelly, and port- wine : half a teacnpful of cream is an im- 
provement before it is served. 

To Make Hare Soup with Hare that has beek Cooked. 

243. First cut off some nice pieces of meat to serve in the soup, 
then chop up the remainder and put into a stewpan, with any bones or 
odd pieces of meat you may have, or else some good stock ; put as 
much stock or water as will make the soup required. Add celeiy, 
onions, cloves, pepper, and salt, but not sweet herbs, as the stuffing 
will suffice; let it stew four or five hours, and then strain it off; 
pound and rub it through a sieve, then add it to the soup again, and 
let it stew another hour, when serve with the meat and forcemeat 
balls. Add a little thickening if required. 

Fabtridge or Grouse Soup. 

244. Take a knuckle of veal, a piece of lean ham, three good-sized 
carrots, three large onions, two blades of mace, some white pepper- 
corns, and five quarts of water, and make a good stock ; then add four 
partridges or three grouse, stew till they are quite tender, take the 
best parts off, beat them fine, and rub them through a sieve with a 
-little of the stock ; stew the bones, &c., in the stock, strain, and adA 



CUATFISH SOUP. B5 



the wliole to the poanded meat ; when served, season with some good 
cream, a spoonful of sugar, and one or two glasses of port-wine. 

GiBLET Soup. 

245. Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or duck gihlets ; set 
them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, 
or the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton, 
with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of 
white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, 
and simmer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are 
quite tender ; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two 
tea-spoonsful of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed 
with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve 
with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two 
glasses of sherry or madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some 
cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt to the taste. 

Portable Soup for Travellers. 

246. Take three large legs of veal, one of beef, and the lean half of 
a ham ; cut them in pieces, put a quarter of a pound of butter at the 
bottom of a large stock-pot, then lay in the meat and the bones, with 
two ounces of mace, pepper and salt to taste ; add three carrots, and 
four or five sticks of celery cut small. Cover the pot close, and set it 
over a moderate fire ; keep taking out the gravy with a spoon as it is 
drawn out, till you have taken the whole. Then cover the meat with 
water, and set it on the fire again. Boil slowly for more than four 
hours ; then strain the liquor through a sieve into a pan, and allow it 
to boil till reduced to one quarter of the original quantity. Next 
strain the gravy which was taken from the meat, and add it to the 
soup, with some cayenne and ketchup, and a little Indian soy. Boil 
again slowly, skimming ofi* the fat as it rises, till it looks like a thick 
glue. Pour it into earthen dishes, and cut it out with round tins a 
little larger than a crown-piece, dry them on dishes in the sun, care- 
fully turning them, and store them in tins, with writing-paper between 
each layer. This is useful in families : one cake with a pint of boil- 
ing water will make good broth, or with less water a good gravy. It 
will keep long. 

Crattish Soup. 

247. Take fifty crayfish, pull out the tails, and ttieu ^OMud \Jm;i \^\ 



86 ENOLISH COOKERY. 



in a mortar with the shells and spawn. Have ready the meat and 
spawn of a lobster, two qoarts of good Teal and ham broth, and pat 
the pounded crayfish into it, with the crumbs of two French rolls, and 
half a pint of good cream. Let it have one boil, and then press it 
through a sieve. Put in the tails of the crayfish^ and serye with the 
crust of Prench rolls. 

Lobster Soup. 

248. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails of six small 
lobsters ; take away the brown fur, and the bag in the head ; beat the 
fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar. Boil very gently in two 
quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, 
salt, two anchoTies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon- 
pccl, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. 
Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, 
and n tea-spoonful of flour ; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the 
tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. 
Servo with forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lobsters, 
mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be 
made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. 

Oyster Soup. 

249. Take two quarts of fish stock, as directed in par. 222 ; beat the 
yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs and the solid part of two quarts of oysters 
in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; 
then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and 
nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes ; have ready the 
yolks of six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it 
all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but 
do not let it boil. Serve altogether. 

250. Oyster Soup with Cream — Excellent for Supper. — Strain 
the liquor from the oysters, and rinse them well in the liquor. Then 
take a portion of the pale veal stock of which the soup is to be made, 
and simmer the beards in it for nearly half an hour. Flavour the 
stock with mace and pepper, and add to it that portion in which the 
beards have been simmered, first straining the latter. Then put the 
oysters and their liquor into a saucepan, and simmer them till the 
oysters are plumped up, after which take out the oysters, and add 
the liquor to the stock. Thicken with arrow-root (mixed with a little 
cold milk), or flour and butter, and add, just before serving, from three- 



CABBOT SOUP. 87 



quarters to a pint of bofling cream, and a little ketchup. The oysten 
(also hot) must be put into the tnreen before the sonp is ponred 
into it. Threescore of oysters will make two quarts of soup. 

Eel Soup. 

251. Take three pounds of small eels; put to them two quarts of 
water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an 
onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; coyer them close, and stew till the 
fish is quite broken, then strain it oft. Toast some bread, cut it into 
dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put 
in it at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter 
of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in 
it, is a great improyement. 

Cabsot Soup. 

252. Cakkot Sonp (without Meat). Take four or five lai^e 
carrots, one turnip, three onions, and three heads of celery shred fine ; 
put into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, three doves, 
some peppercorns, and a blade of mace ; stir till it is a pulp ; add 
half a pint of peas boiled to a pulp, two anchovies, and three quarts of 
water ; let it simmer two hours, and rub through a hair sieve. If not 
thick enough, add a little flour and butter. 

Another, — Slice two good-sized carrots, two large onions, one large 
turnip, and one stick of celery ; dredge flour over them and fry till 
tender, with just butter enough to keep them from burning ; put them 
in a stewpan, and pour enough boiling water to cover theuL Stew 
them about four hours, and when half done add boiling water to make 
the proper thickness. Mash and strain through a sieve, and season 
with pepper and salt. If approved of, add a little cream. 

Another Carrot Soup, — ^Take one turnip, two or three onions, and 
twelve carrots; boil them in some stock till quite tender, then rub 
them through a hair-sieve. Season with peppercorns and salt, if 
Decessary, and thicken with a little flour and butter. 

253. Carbot Soup (with Meat). — Put some beef-bones with four 
quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, 
two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt, into a saucepan, and stew 
for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin, 
strain the soup on them, and stew till soft enough to pulp through a 
hair-sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp vfith the soup, which is 
to be as thick as pea-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots 



^'^ ENGLISH COOKERY. 



til rough the siere, and palp onlj the red part of the carrot, not the. 
}elIow. Make the soup the daj before, and add cayenne to the 
palate. 

254. Carrot Soup (with Crbam). — ^To the liquor that a knuckle 
of veal has been boiled in, add twelve large carrots ; boil till the carrots 
Trill mash through a sieve, put them through, and then let them boil 
in the broth till quite smooth ; add half a pint of cream and a little 
salt. It should be boiled till smooth, and of the consistence of pea-soup. 
Or, the stock may be made of one pound and a half of scrag of mutton, 
stewed in three quarts of water. 

Asparagus Soup. 

255. Make rather a weak stock, and boil with it some fresh mint, 
a stick of celery, a turnip, carrot, and one onion ; boil it about three 
hours ; strain it, and boil with it a handful of mint till it is flavoured; 
take two bunches of asparagus, and cut all the tender part, about the 
size of peas, into cold water ; take these out, and boil in half a pint 
of cold water till tender ; pour them into the stock and thicken with 
flour and butter : add salt and a handful of mint chopped very fine 
when it is nearly thickened, and at the same time put in half a tea- 
cupful of spinach-juice (made by tying spinach leaves in a muslin 
after they have been washed, and potmding them, then squeezing the 
juice) ; pea-leaf would do better if it could be had. 

Julienne Soup. 

256. Take some carrots, turnips, a few heads of celery, and a very 
few leeks and onions, cut them in fillets an inch long, and the size of a 
wooden skewer ; then take two ounces of butter, and a little brown 
supjar, and lay it at the bottom of the stewpan, with the roots over ; fry 
them over a slow fire, stirring gently ; moisten them with veal broth 
or a quirt of water: let them boil on the comer of a stove j skim all 
the fat off*, and add a quart or two of clear soup. In summer add green 
peas, asparagus-tops, French-beans, some lettuce or sorreL 

Turnip Soup. 

257. Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into 
cutlets, &c., and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch 
of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water ; cover it close, and 
let it stew on a slow fire four or five hours. Strain and set it up till 
next day, then take the fat and sediment from it, and simmer it with 



WINTEB PEAS SOUP. 



89 



nt into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper, 
erring, rub down half a spoonful of flonr with half a pint of 
am, and the size of a walnnt of butter. Let a small roll 
in the soup till soaked through, and serve this with it. It 
e as thick as middling cream. 

Greek-pea -Soup. 

'ake the insides of six cos-lettuces and three cucumbers, pare 

: them, and cut the lettuces in pieces ; add half a pint of young 

onion both top and bottom, and a very little parsley ; put 

a stewpan, with half a pound of butter and a little salt aud 
pper; cover them close, and stew gently two hours; shake 
freqnently, but do not open the lid ; boil some younger peas 
sr, rub them through a colander, and add the pulp to the 
e next day add another half-pint of young peas, and as much 
ea- water as will reduce the soup to the thickness yon wi^Il 
it. By way of Tariety, all the vegetables may be rubbed 
the colander, and it will make a nice smooth soup. 

T Green-pea Soup. — ^To a gallon of w^ater add half a peck of 
3en peas and a French roll ; let them boil till the peas are 

strain them through a colander, put to them some whole 
md mace, half a peck of young peas, and let them boil; 
andful of spinach, two or three cabbage-lettuces, a few green 
cut them in pieces not too small, put them in a stew-pan with 

quarter of a pound of butter ; let them stew till very tender; 

1 peas are enough boiled put in a few marigold leaves, and let 
1 together ; cut a quantity of bread in little squares, and fry 
y dry to eat with the soup. 

WiNTEii Peas Soup. 

nice four carrots, four onions, three turnips, some outside 
celery, and brown them in a buttered stewpan. Stew them 
or five hours with some parsley and herbs in four or five pints 
jtock or broth, with a quart or more of peas, soaked over 
^dd a spoonful of walnut and mushroom ketchup, and a little 
igar, and slice a little fresh celery into the tureen before pour- 
e soup, and serve with fried toast and powdered mint. If the 
ler is used the soup can be made more quickly, 
r Receipt — Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if 
put as much fresh water to it, or use fie&b. Tfal^t ^tlXIvcOv^ 




.v; 



90 ENGLISH COOKEBT. 

with roast beef bones, a ham or gammon bone, and an anchoTj or two* 
Simmer these with some good whole or split peas; these dionld 
always be pat in water to soak the night before ; the smaller the 
quantity of water at first, the better. Simmer till the peas will palp 
through a colander ; then pulp them, and boil the pulp in the liquor 
that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a leek, a little parsley, 
and a stick of celery cut into bits, or use the tincture of celery or 
celery seed ; stew till all are quite tender, then season with pepper 
and salt ; strain, and serve with bread toasted, and cut in dice, or fried 
in the same shape. Dried mint is to be finely powdered and served 
'A'ith it. This soup is much improved by adding a little cream ; if not 
thick enough, add a little flour and butter. 

260. Pea-soup (Without Meat). — ^Boil one pint of split peas four 
or five hours, till quite tender, in two quarts of water. Add two large 
carrots and two turnips, a stick of celery, and some potatoes cut all in 
pieces, and boiled till they will pulp through a sieve. Cut one largi 
onion in slices, and fry it in flour and butter, with pepper and salt 
enough for the whole soup. Add this to the above with a little soy 
and ketchup, and it will scarcely be distinguished from the soup made 
with meat. 

261. Pea-soup foh Lent. — Put three pints of boiling peas into five 
quarts of soft cold water, three anchovies, three red herrings, two large 
onions, two or three cloves, a carrot and parsnip sliced in, a few Jeru- 
salem artichokes, and a bunch of sweet herbs, boil all together till the 
soup is thick, strain it, and add a sliced stick of celery, one ounce oi 
butter, a little brown sugar and ketchup, or Indian soy. Serve with 
iVied squares of bread, and dried mint if liked. 

Soup Maigsb. 

262. Melt half a pound of butter into a stewpan, shake it round, 
and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two 
or three minutes, then put to it five heads of celery, two handsful of 
spinach, two cabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake 
the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some 
ci'usts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades 
of mace, and if you have any white beet leaves add a large handful 
of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving, beat in 
two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Another Soup Maigre, — Cut two onions into very small slices, and 
put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter ; fry them a litd^ 



ONIOK SOUP* 91 



taking care not to discolour them. Haye ready three or four handsful 
of sorrel well washed and cut into ribbons, and add them to the 
ouions with a table-spoonful of flour, then mix well, adding one pint 
of milk and one quart of water; boil altogether for two minutes, 
keeping it well stirred ; then take it off the fire, and stir in quicklj the 
yolks of two eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream* Do not boil it after 
the eggs are in. 

Another, — ^Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, 
the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip, then pour 
on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp 
throogh a sieye, then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. 

Spinach Soup. 
S63. Shred two handsful of spinach, a turnip, two onions, one head 
of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a 
stewpot with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of 
broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the 
yegetables are quite tender; work them through a coarse cloth or 
sieye with a spoon, then to the pulp of the yegetables and liquor put 
a quart of fresh water, pepper and salt, and boil altogether. Haye 
ready some suet dumplings the size of a walnut, and, before pouring 
the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be 
shred too fine, and take care that it is quite fresh. 

Okion Soup. 

264. Take about two pounds of mutton or yeal, put it on to stew 
with twelye large onions, sliced. When the onions are yeiy soft, put 
them through a fine sieye, or put a cloth into the colander, and mash 
the onions in it, pouring the grayy oyer them till they are nearly all 
run through. This quantity will make three pints of soup ; add one 
pint of new milk, with two table-spoonsful of flour mixed with it, one 
table-spoonful of essence of anchoyy ; mace, pepper, and salt to the 
taste. 

265. Bbown Onion Soup. — Peel and slice eight or ten large 
Spanish onions, fry them in butter a nice brown ; when tender, lay 
them on a sieye to drain. Boil them an hour in five quarts of boiling 
water, and stir them after adding pepper and salt, and the crumbs 
of a penny loaf rubbed fine, then boil two hours more, stirring often, 
or it will be lumpy. Before serving, add the yolks of two eggs, with 
two spoonsfiil of yinegar and a little sugar, to a small portion of the 



92 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



sonp; ponr this in gentlr, and stir it ten minutes: flaronr with a 
tea-spoonful of Indian soy and some ketchup. 

266. Grbe:¥ Onion Soup. — ^To be prepared as brown onion soup, 
(265), but with fresh drawn onions, of which the ffreen part should be 
added to the roots, and some of them cnt in Teiy narrow strips an 
inch long, and put into the sonp later, so as to remain in shape when 
it is served ; at the same time that they must be boiled quite tender. 

Rice Sdup. 

267. Boil about two teacupsful of rice in a quart of water with two 
onions and two sticks of celery, till the rice is quite soft. Put one 
or two ounces of butter and about two table-spoonsful of flour into a 
stewpan, and when melted add the above with some stock (which is 
best made of some Teal bones or boilings), and stir till of a proper 
thickness. Flavour with a little salt and pepper, and just before serv- 
ing add a tea-spoonful of cream. 

White Soup. 

268. Take the bony part of a knuckle of veal, break 'the bones quite 
small, cover it close down in a pan, with a little mace, a few black and 
a few white peppercorns, just broken, a little turnip, carrot, onion, 
and celery ; put in a quart of water, and let it simmer gently for three 
hours. Stir them together, and put in as much water as will make the 
quantity ; put it through a sieve. When wanted to be used, put it 
into a pan with half a pint of good cream, and thicken with flour and 
butter. Boil a roll in the soup till quite soft ; just before taking it 
up, have the roll rubbed through a sieve with a little of the sonp, 
and just give it a boil in the soup to add to the thickness of it. If 
a French roll cannot be got, cut the crust from a common one, or it 
will discolour the whole. 

Another. — Take a shoulder or knuckle of veal, a piece of lean ham, 
a little mace, and an onion ; boil them to a strong gravy ; during the 
time put in a small bunch of pot-herbs for ten minutes ; strain it, and 
let it get cold ; boil a pint of good cream, and pour it upon the crumb 
of a penny loaf; let it stand some time and strain ; blanch one ounce 
of sweet almonds, and beat them in a mortar with the yolks of four 
eggs boiled hard ; mix them well together, and add them to the gravy; 
stir all over a slow fire, taking care it does not boil. Two ounces of 
vermicelli cut small is a great improvement. 

269. A Whitb Soup or Jerusalem Abtichokes. — ^The stock of 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 93 



veal, to which add three ponnds of artichokes, to be pidped throngfa 
a sieve ; season with salt and a small qnantitj of cajenne pepper, and 
before it is ponred into the tureen stir in some good thick cream ; it 
must on no account be permitted to boil after the cream has been 
added, but care must be taken that it is not chilled by it. 

270. To Make Soup for Suppeb. — ^Take a quart of good new 
milk, and add a pint of cream, a bit of lemon-peel, a laurel-leaf or 
two, a stick of cinnamon, a few coriander-seeds, and a small piece of 
sugar ; boil a few minutes, and set it to cool ; then beat the yolks of 
ten eggs, and blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds, and two 
or three bitter almonds, with a little water in a mortar till very fine; 
then put them iivith the cream ; mix the eggs smoothly with it in the 
stewpan, having previously run the mixture through a coarse sieve ; 
stir it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken like a custard ; then 
pour it into the tureen with some slices of French roll as thick as 
biscuits. 

271. jENirr Lind's Soup. — ^Make three quarts of stock, which strain 
through a fine sieve into a stewpan ; add to it three ounces of sago, 
and let it boil gently for twenty minutes, then skim it. The stock, 
being previously seasoned, will <Hily require half a tea-spoonful of 
sugar, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; a little thyme, parsley, and a 
bay leaf will vary the flavour. Just before serving, put into a basin 
the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and add to them half a pint of 
cream ; then take the stewpan off the fire, pour it in, stir quickly for 
one minute, and serve immediately. If it boil again it will be spoiled. 

YSOETABLE SoUP. 

272. Fat a lump of butter into a stewpan, let it boil ; have ready a 
small quantity of cabbage, red and white, beet, sorrel, onions, carrots, 
potatoes, peas, French beans, cauliflowers, parsley leaves and root, 
lettuces, cucumbers, artichoke bottoms, Jerusalem artichokes, and 
asparagus chopped very fine ; let them stew in the butter till quite 
tender, stirring to prevent their burning. Season with cayenne, salt, 
pepper, and ketchup, and celery seed, add some good meat broth, and 
boil it all together, and serve hot. Any of the vegetables may be omit- 
ted, but the greater variety the better, and care must be taken that 
the flavour of any one vegetable does not predominate over the rest. 

Another. — ^Put into two quarts of cold water two pounds of Jerusa- 
lem artichokes pared and halved, one pound of turnips pared and 
sliced, two or three onions, and a stick of celery. BoU all to^\Vk&x ^<^^« 



9 4 ENQLISH GOOKEBT. 



ly for two and a half hours, with a stock made of Teal or rabbits ; then 
add two table-spoonsful of flour, one ounce of butter, and pepper and 
salt to the taste. Let it simmer half an hour longer, skimming it care- 
fully, then serre. 

273. A Tbansparent White Sottp. — Take a large knuckle or small 
log of veal, and cut off all the meat as thin as possible, and break the 
bone in pieces. Put the meat in a large jug or stock-pot, the bones 
at tlie top, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, 
and a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds beaten fine. Pour on 
it four quarts of boiling water; let it stand by the fire all night 
covered close ; the next day put it in a well-tinned or enamelled 
saucepan ; let it boil gently till reduced one half; remove the scum 
and fat as it rises while it is boiling ; strain it into an earthen pan to 
settle, and in two or three hours* time pour it again with a spoonful 
of sugar into a clean saucepan, clear from all sediment. Add, before 
serving, vermicelli or carrot, or French beans cut in long thin 
narrow strips, or asparagus in short lengths, previously boiled, and 
serve the whole very hot; a little white wine may be added if 
approved. 



CHAP. IX.— GRAVIES, SAVOURY SAUCES. FORCEMEATS. AND 

SAUSAGES. 

Sect. 1. — General Kehjlbeis. 

274. Gravies, Sauces, and StufiSngs, are savoury compounds, intended 
to give flavour and zest to the more insipid and solid joints, such as 
roast veal or poultry. The sauces here described differ from the per- 
manent sauces given with vinegar pickles, in the Economical House- 
keeper ; inasmuch as though the former are, by good housekeepers, 
always kept in the house, yet it is only for a short time, and the great 
art consists in using them up before they become spoiled. Thus, the 
proper course in these matters is so to arrange the principal and side 
dishes for to-morrow, that they shall use up the sauces concocted to- 
day, or yesterday, or perhaps even the day before that. 

Sect. 2. — Gravies and Savoury Jellies. 

275. Gravies are distinguished from sauces, in their predominating 
element being the osmazome of meat, commonly called gravy, how- 
ever it may be disguised. Gravy may be made quite as good of the 
skirts, or any other coarse part, of beo^ and even from the liver or the 



BBOWNma FOB O&AYT. 9lf 



kidnej, as of anj other meat prepared in the same waj ; so also it 
may he procured from the shank-end of legs of matton that have been 
dressed, if mnch is not wanted. The raw shank-bones of mntton are 
a great imprOTement to the richness of gravy ; bat first it is necessary 
to soak them well, and sconr them clean. Sheep's heads also make 
excellent gravy. 

BsOWHINa FOB G&AYT. 

276. This is pretty nearly the same as for soup (see page 78) ; bat 
the following is, perhaps, still better adapted for the purpose : — 

Fat t«'o ounces of moist sugar into an iron saucepan and boil till 
brown, then add half a pint of water, some pepper, salt, and mace, and 
about half a tea- spoonful of the gravy settled at the bottom of the 
dripping-pot. Boil for two or three minutes till it is of a good brown, 
and bottle it. Put half a tea-cupful of hot water, with a tea-spoonful 
of browning dissolved in it, into the dish with the meat, and put a 
tea-spoonful into the hashes. 

Another. — ^Put into a stewpan one lb. of good sugar, one oz. of butter, 
six cloves, twelve allspice, and boil it three minutes ; then add a quart 
of boiling water, and keep stirring it for five minutes ; pour it into a 
basin, and when cold clear away the scum, bottle, and keep it tightly 
corked. 

Glazb. 

277. Glaze for Gravy is also pretty nearly the same as for soups 
(see page 77), or as follows : — 

Break the bones of several joints of cooked meat as small as possible ; 
put them to boil in two quarts of water for two hours ; then strain the 
bones out and boil about an hour, till reduced to rather more than a 
teacupful; flavour it with black pepper and salt, and add a little 
browning (par. 276). It should be dried in saucers till of the con- 
sistence nearly of India-rubber, and will in this state keep for three 
months or more. 

To Make Bbown Thickening fob Soups, Gbayies, &c. 

278. Put into a stewpan a lump of butter, according to the quantity 
of thickening required. Melt it gently, then put flour enough to make 
a paste. Pry it on a slow fire until it becomes of a light brown colour, 
Chen pour it into an earthen pan for use. It will keep for some time. 

A good thickening for hashes and gravies may be made by melting 
ttry dowbf half « pound of batter, and after skimming it, and viV^mw^ 



9G EXOLISH COOKERY. 



the sediment to settle, pour it clear off into a stew or frying pan, oyer 
a clear bat gentle fire, and dredge rery gradually into it nearly half a 
pound of well-dried fioar — shaking the pan the while. Stir well and 
carefully till the whole is well mixed, and is fried a light hro¥m colour. 
It must on no account be burnt in the slightest degree. This will 
liccp in a jar for some little time, and may be added as required to 
Foups or gravies while boiling. If to be used for white soups or 
sauces, the thickening must not acquire the least tinge of brojni in 
the frj'ing. 

To Frbberte Beef Lives for Grayt. 

279. Take a clear liyer, and rub it well all over with four ounces of 
coarse sugar or treacle ; let it lie twenty-four hours, then rub it well 
all over with two ounces of saltpetre, four ounces of bay salt, and one 
ounce of common salt. Let it lie in the pickle for three weeks, turn- 
ing and rubbing it every day. Hang it near the fire to dry, and when 
used cut slices off and boil them in as much water as is required for 
the gravy. Add herbs, or an onion, if approved. 

Plain Joint Gravt. 

280. The ordinary kind is described under the head of Koasting, at 
page 44. 

Or^ put a small piece of glazing into a teacup, and fill the cup with 
boiling water ; when quite dissolved, pour it over the joint and serve. 

Made Gravt. 

281. Made Gravy, fit for ordinary purposes, such as roast poultry 
or game, as sened in everyday dinners, may be made so that it will 
keep a week in moderately cool weather as follows : — Cut lean beef 
thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire 
covered, but take care it does not burn ; let it stay till all the gravy 
that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again ; put as much 
water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to 
meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean 
hnm ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Do not take 
off the fat till going to be used. 

Another, — ^Take any bones or meat in the house, and put in a stew- 
pan with onions, parsley, and sweet herbs. Let it stew well, and 
thicken it with flour and butter, mixed up ; then pass it through a 
sieve, and add soy, ketchup. Beading or Worcestershire sauce, port- 
wine, a. little pounded mace, and cayenne, to the taste, with a Httlo 



TESIBOar 6BAYY FOB XUTTOK. 97 

owning, to colour it if necessary. Pnt it in a basin, and, when cold, 
sit some snet and poor over it to presenre it. Sheep's melts for 
avy Tery cheap, one penny each, and enough for twice, stewed liktt 
her meats. 

282. Cui^us OR Browh Gillyt. — ^Lay over the bottom of a stewpan 
mnch lean veal as will cover it an inch, thick ; then cover the veal 

Lth thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or 
ree bay-leaves, some sweet-herbs, two blades of mace, and three 
oves ; cover the stewpan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the 
ices come out let the fire be a little quicker; when the meat is of a 
le brown, fill the pan with good beef-broth ; boil aud skim it, then 
mmer an hour, and add a little water, mixed with as much flour as will 
ake it properly thick ; boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will 
sep for a week. 

283. TeaI/ Grayt is made as directed under par. 282, but without 
le spice, herbs, and flour. 

284. Clear Gratt. — Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a veiy 
ear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to 
ress it ; put that and the raw part into a veiy nicely tinned stewpan, 
ith two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspiee, 
ad a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, 
ad skim it well two or three times ; then cover it, and simmer tili 
nite strong. 

A BiGH Gratt. 

285. Cut the beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted; 
lice onions thin, and flour both ; fiy them of a light-pale brown, but 
o not on any account sufler them to get black ; put them into a stew- 
an, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying-pan, bofl it np, 
nd pour on the m^at ; put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoij, 

small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of tarragon, some maee, 
ernes of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of 
am or gammon of bacon ; simmer till you have extracted all the 
lices of the meat, and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often 
fter ; if for a hare or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. 

Vbnison Gravy for Mcttok. 

286. One wine-glass of sherry, one table-spoonful of vinegar, one 
cssert-spoonfol of catsup. Add as much good stock or plain joint 
ravy as these ingredients put together; and also from sixtA CAi^X 



08 ENGLISH CX>OKERT. 



lumps of sngar, and a little thickening ; the whole shonld not boil 
more than a minute, when senre. 

EcoNoiaoAL Gratt vos Poultrt. 

287. Wash the feet nicelj, and cut them and the neck small ; simmer 
them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, a bit of parslej and 
thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liyer and gizzard in a quarter 
of a pint of water, till hali- wasted ; take out the liTcr, bruise it, and 
strain the liquor to it ; then thicken it with flour and butter, and add 
a tea-spoonfid of mushroom ketchup, and it will be very good. 

Ham Grayt Saucb. 

288. When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat clean from 
the bone, leaving out anj rusty part ; beat the meat and the bone to 
% mash with a chopper and rolling-pin ; put it in a saucepan with 
three spoonsful of gravy ; set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the 
time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on some time, 
put to it a small bundle of sweet-herbs, some pepper, and half a pint 
of beef-gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When 
it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this 
is an improvement to all gravies. 

Gravy for Wild-fowl. 

289 To one wine-glassful of port-wine add a table-spoonful each 
of walnut ketchup, mushroom ketchup, and lemon-juice, one shalot 
Sliced (or a little of the essence), a small piece of lemon-peel, and a 
blade of mace. These should all be scalded, strained, and added to 
the mere gravy that comes from the fowl in roasting. The breast 
of the fowl should bo scored in three or four places, and the gravy 
poured hoiling hot over it l)efore it is sent to table. 

Another. — Simmer a tea-spoonful of made mustard, the same of 
anchovies and cayenne, a tablespoonful of ketchup, one onion, a 
tea-cupful of good gravy, a lump or two of white sugar, a little salt, 
nutmeg, and mace, and the juice of half a lemon, for ten minutes — ^then 
adtJ a tea-cupful of port- wine and give it one boil ; — it may be bottled, 
and warmed and served in a boat when required. 

Imitation Brown Gravy (Without Meat). 
290. Take of water and ale that is not too bitter one pint of each; 
of walnut pickle, mushroom pickle, and ketchup, two table-spoonsfiil 



SAYOUBY JELLY. 99 

of each; two anchovies, two onions sliced, some salt, two or three 
blades of mace, and some whole pepper. To the above ingredients 
add a little butter, with a small portion of flour, having previouslj 
made it brown hy stirring it till the froth sinks. Boil the whole 
together for twenty minutes. 

Wins Giultt or Sauce. 

291. Make a strong rich gravj by either of the receipts given at pars. 
281 or 282. The second of those, given at par. 282, is the best for the 
purpose. Take about one-third of a sauce tureen of this, heat it, 
and when ready for use add from two to three table-spoonsful of rich 
and new port-wine. 

Sweet Sauce fob Sayoubt Joints. 

292. This is served with mutton and venison, and often with hare 
also. It is made by dissolving two or three table-spoonsful of red 
currant jelly in a small enamelled saucepan, and when hot adding 
one or two table-spoonsful of port-wine. 

Stbong Eish Gravt. 

293. Skin two or three eels or some flounders ; gut and wash them 
very clean; cut them into small pieces, and put into a saucepan. 
Cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted 
brovm, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece 
of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horseradish* 
Cover close, and simmer; add a bit of butter and flour, and boil with 
the above. 

Sayoubt Jellt, to put ovbb Cold Pies. 

294. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or 
a piece of scrag of that or mutton; or, if the pie be of fowl or 
rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and heads added to any piece of meat 
will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks 
of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a fagot 
of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small 
bit of lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, 
and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew- 
pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and let 
it simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and when cold 
take off the fat with a spoon £rst, and then, to remove every particle 



100 BffOLIBH OOOKXRT. 



of greaie, Uy a doan piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. Whep 
cold, if not clear, warm it, and, after letting it stand for a few 
mlnntes, ponr the clearer part off the sediment, and then boil the 
former for a few minntes with the whites of two eggs, after which it 
mast be strained through a fine doth in a strainer, and put by to cool, 
then it must be skimmed. 

Jbixt to Ck>TEK Cold Fish. 

99S. Clean a small skate and pat it into three quarts of water, 
with a calTs foot or cow-heel, a stick of horseradish, an onion, 
three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon- ped, 
and a good slice of lean gammon ; stew till it becomes jellj ; strain 
it off, and when cold remove every bit of fat ; take it up from the 
sediment and boil it, omitting the fat, with a glass of sherry, the 
whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon ; boil without 
stirring, and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour« 
and strain it through a bag or siere with a cloth in it ; cover the fish 
with it when cold. 

Sect. 3. — Satottxt Sauces. 

296. These are distinguished from gravies by their foundation being 
composed of gdatine, milk, cream, butter, or some other mild material 
variously fiavoured. 

White Sauce fos Fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, Whttb Meat, 

Fish, or Yeoetables. 

297. It is seldom necessary to bay meat for this favourite sauce, as 
the proportion of that flavour is bat small ; the water that has boiled 
fowls, veal, or rabbit, or a little broth that may be in the house, 
or the feet and necks of chickens, for raw or dressed veal, will suf- 
fice. Stew with a little water any of these with a bit of lemon-peel, 
some sliced onion, some white peppercorns, a little pounded mace or 
nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour is good ; then 
strain it, and add a little good cream, a piece of batter, and a little 
flour ; salt to the taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the 
sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used 
for fricassees, but cream is better, as the former is apt to curdle. 

Another, cheaper, but very good, — Add to a little boiling milk a blade 
of mace, and thicken with flour and butter, and flavour with pepper, 
■alt, and i^ little Worcestershire sauce, or cucumber or mushroom 



UTER flJlUGB. 101 



ketchap. If it is desired richer, a little cream thonld be put, instead 
of all millL This will do for fish sanoe, with the addition of a little 
anchoyy ; and if oyster, shrimp, or lobster sance is required, leare <mt 
the anchoYj. 

Ak Excsixekt Saugb vob Gasp ok Bohad Tuskxt. 

298. Bnb two oonces of batter with a tea-spoonfnl of floor, pot to 
it a little water, melt it, and add nearij a quarter of a pint of thick 
cream and half an anchoYj chopped fine, not washed ; set it over the 
fire, and as it boils up add a large spoonfol of real India so/ ; if that 
does not giye it a fine colour put a little more ; torn it into the sance 
tureen, and pnt some salt and half a lemon ; stir it well to hinder it 
from curdling. 

Onioh Sauce. 

299. Boll the onions gentlj in milk and water till thej are quite soft, 
then rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon, and boil them 
up with cream or the yolk of an egg, beaten up with milk or with 
melted butter. 

MusHsooM Sauce. 

300. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with 
salt to take off the tender skin ; put them into a saucepan with a little 
salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece 
of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up and stir them till done ; then 
pour the sauce round the chickens, &c. Garnish with lemon. If you 
cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done white, with 
a little mushroom powder added to the cream, &e. 

Lemon Whitb Sauce fob Boiled Fowls. 

301. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of 
sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon thyme, and ten white pepper- 
corns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon ; then strain it ; 
and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert- 
spoonfol of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the 
lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then 
mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil 
them together ; add salt to the taste. 

Liver Sauce. 

302. Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and put it iam^ltftid. VoXX^it 



102 BVGUBH COOKERY. 



with a Terj little pepper and salt, and some panlej ; give it one boil 
and it is ready. Or, cat the liren and slices of lemon in dice, with 
scalded panlej and hard eggs ; add salt, and mix them with batter, 
boil them np, and poor orer fowls ; also over roast-rabbits. 

LiTKK Saugb vok Boast Hark ok Babbit. 

303. The liver shoald be well stewed in brown stock if for hare, or 
white if for rabbit ; when qaite done poand it with a few herbs, a clove 
of shalot, and afterwards add to the gravy In which it has stewed 
a little vinegar or lemon-jnice, a glass of white wine if for rabbit, 
if for hare a glass of port- wine, with, if approved, half a glass of car- 
rant jelly. Simmer the whole, and flavoor with salt and pepper. 

Another Liver Sauce for a Hare, — ^Braise the liver of a hare raw 
with a spoon, melt a little bntter, with some milk and floor, and pat 
the liver into it hot ; add a little salt and good cream, with some of the 
gravy from the hare. Simmer it altogether over the fire, stirring it all 
the time. 

Ego Sauce. 

304. Boil the eggs hard, and chop them into small pieces; then 
pat them to melted batter, and boil ap. 

Another Egg Sauce, — Boil three or foar eggs for fall a qoarter of an 
hoar, and when qaite cold cat all the yolks into small dice, and chop 
two- thirds of the whites into small pieces ; mix them in the saace- 
boat and sprinkle salt over them, poar apon them some white sance ; 
and serve hot. 

Saucb fob Suokino Fio. 

305. Boil the inside of a French roll with an onion and salt, then 
take a qaarter pint of the gravy from the roasting pig, and having 
chopped the brains and a sage leaf or two, beat them and the roll ap 
with the gravy ; add a little batter, lemon-jaice, mashroom ketchap, 
and half a glass of port or white wine. For cnrrant saace, if pre- 
ferred (see par. 312). 

Mint Saucb. 

306. Chop mint leaves with a sharp knife, and qnickly, to preserve 
the colonr ; pat them into a saace-tareen with saflScient sugar to take 
off the extreme acidity of the vinegar, which mast be added in such 
qnantity as to make the leaves float in a liquldi 



C!UBRANT SAUCE. lOS 



SORSEL SaDCS. 

307. Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice, a glan of white wine, 
and half a pint of gooseberries scalded. Add an ounje or two of 
sagar, and a bit of batter. Boil them np. 

GOOSEBBRRT SaUCB. 

308. Boil a pint of green gooseberries in sufficient water to corer 
them until they are tender. Then pass them through a colander or 
strainer ; add ten grains of ginger and a few lumps of sugar, with a 
small piece of butter. Mix all together, and boil op. 

Bbead Sauce. 

309. Boil a large onion (cut in four) with some black pepper 
and milky till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk, after straining 
it, on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it in a 
saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour ; boil 
up together, and serve — a little cream added is a Terr great im- 
provement. 

A Bread Sauce fob Roast Harb. 

310. Steep the crumb of a pennj loaf in port-wine, put it in a sauce- 
pan with some butter, beat it well while warming till quite smooth ; 
add pepper, salt, and currant jelly, with three large spoonshil of cream, 
or, instead of the cream, substitute the same quantity of vinegar. Serve 
very hot. 

Apple Saucb for (toosb and Boast Pork. 

311. Pare, core, and slice some apples; put them in a stone jar, 
then into a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, 
let a spoonful or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. 
When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit 
of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a 
sauce-tureen. 

Currant Saucb. 

312. Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water for a 
few minutes ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, 
a glass of port-wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till ihfi frYkJcAft Si hslQA^ 



104 KfGLISHOOOKXRT. 



Lbmoh Saucs. 

31 3w Cat thin slices of lemon into reiy small dice, and pnt them in 
melted batter ; gireit one boil, and poor it oyer boiled fowls. 

Casbisr Sauob vor Mutton. 

314. Chop six shalots fine, and boil them np with a gill of graTj, 
a spoonfol of vinegar, some pepper and salt. 

Horseradish Saucb for Cold Mrat or Gamb. 

315. Biix well together one onnce of grated horseradish, half an 
ounce of salt, a table-spoonful of made mostard, and three dessert- 
spoonsfid of moist sugar, the same quantity of vinegar, and milk or 
cream, to make it of the consistence of good cream, or thicker, if 
preferred. 

Saucb for Cold Fowl or Partridob. 

316. Bub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an 
anchoYj, two dessert-spoonsful of oil, three of vinegar, a shalot, 
cayenne if approved, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. All the spice 
and herbs should be pounded before adding them. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. 

317. Put six spoonsful of water and four of vinegar into a sauce- 
pan, warm and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite 
hot, but do not boil it; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and 
strain it through a sieve. 

Sauce Bobart for Rumps or Steaks. 

31 8. Pnt a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, set it 
over the fire, and when browning throw in a handful of sliced onions 
cut small ; fry them brown, but do not let them burn ; add half a 
spoonful of fiour, shake the onions in it and give it another fry ; then 
put four spoonsful of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it 
gently ten minutes ; skim off the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of made 
mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it 
all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow 
brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. 

Saucb A-la-Maitrb d'Hotel. 
819. Pat a piece of batter into a saucepan with some curled parsley, 



CAPER SAUCE. 105 

some tarragon leayes, a shalot, two leayes of balm, a Hftle salt, lemoD, 
or a glass of yeijuice, and mix the whole with a spoon until thej are 
well incorporated, and simmer them for a few minutes. 

To Melt Bdttkb. 

320. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour and a good 
pinch of salt to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it 
into a small saucepan with about half a pint of hot water, boil quick 
a minute, shaking it all the time, and turning it always in one direc- 
tion. Milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks 
whiter. 

Another Method of Meking Butter, — ^Mix yeiy smoothly a large tea- 
spoonful of flour with a tea-cup of cold water, and add a pinch of salt. 
Put to these, in jour saucepan, two or three ounces of good fresh 
butter, cut in small pieces, and shake the saucepan round one way and 
almost without intermission till the ingredients are perfectly mixed, 
and it has simmered for two or three minutes. 

A plainer scmce may be made by adding one-and-a-half ounce of 
butter to the above flour and water. And for an inexperienced person 
it is easier to add the butter after the flour and water haye boiled for a 
couple of minutes, and then boil the whole for one minute more, 
stirring or shaking all the time. 

To Clakift Bxttteb. 

321. Simmer it gently over a clear flre, and when melted take it o£^ 
skim it, and let the sediment settle. Pour the butter ofiP clear into 
jars for use, keep them in a cool place. Some persons make a supply 
in the autumn, to serve when butter rises in price. 

Pennel Sauce. 

322. This is made like parsley and butter (see 324). 

Capeb Sauce. 

323. Add whole capers to melted butter with a portion of the vinegar 
they are found in. Cream Is a great improvement to the butter. A 
substitute for capers may be found in the nasturtium seed pickled, 
(see Economical Housekeeper), 

Another Substitute for Caper Sauce, inferior to Nasturtiums, — ^Boil 
parsley slowly, to let it become a bad colour, cut,' but do TiOt OiiO'^NX* 
fine ; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of Bait, aii^ & ^<e»^x\>- 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. 



106 ENGLISH OOOKSRT. 



Farslbt akd Butter. 

324. Boil parsley-leares and chop rery fine ; then mix with melted 
batter, and boil. 

Another. — ^When no panlej leaves are to be had, tie np a little 
parsley seed in a bit of clean mnslin, and boil it a few minntes in some 
water. Use this water to melt the batter ; and throw into it a little 
boiled spinach minced, to look like parsley. 

LOBSTEK SaUCB. 

325. Take a large fresh lobster, carefully pick oat the berries and 
all the inside : cat it small ; make a sauce with a lump of flour and 
batter, a little milk or cream, a very amall quantity of essence of 
anchory, a very little mace, beat fine, and cayenne ; then pull the 
rest of the lobster to pieces with two forks ; add the sauce, by degrees, 
to the berries, and put in the lobster. Gire it a boil, stirring all tb9 
time, and it is ready to serre. 

To Makb Oyster Sauce. 

326. Take the oysters, open the bodies, and remove the beards; 
put the former into a saucepan with the liquor and a little water; 
put the beards into a piece of muslin, and boil them with the oysters 
to extract the juice and flavour; thicken with flour and butter; and 
after removing the beards, add some cream, a little mace, pepper, 
and salt. Cockles or mussels for sauce, taking care to remove the 
dark spot in the body of the mussel, as it is considered poisonous, and 
to clean the cockles thoroughly from all particles of sand. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

327. If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a little water over 
them to wash them ; put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give 
them one boil, and add the juice of a lemon. If the shells are boiled 
in a little water and strained ofl^, and that used to make the sauce, 
fewer shrimps are necessary. 

Brown Sauce for Fish. 

328. Melt some butter in cream (instead of flour and water) with as 
much walnut ketchup boiled in it as will make it of a nice light brown. 

White Sauce for Eish. 
829. Boil some cream, thicken it with flour and butter, then let it 



STUFFINGS, FOBCEMEAtS, ETC. 107 

simmer till smooth ; add a tea^spoonful of essence of ancboYj to a 
tnreenful, and, if it is liked, a little walnnt or mashroom ketchup. 
For cod saace, omit the ketchup, and add a little S07. If cream is 
scarce, use milk and the yolk of an egg. 

Fish Saucb Without Buttsr. 

330. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and half a 
pint of water (which must not be hard), and then add an onion, half 
a handful of horseradish, and the following spices lightly bruised: 
four cloves, two blades of mace, and a half tea-spoonful of black 
pepper. YHicn the onion is quite tender, chop it small with two 
anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with 
a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten 
the yolks of three fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees 
with them, and when well mixed set the saucepan over a gentle fire, 
keeping a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and 
shake the saucepan over the fire that the eggs may not curdle. Do 
not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness 
of melted butter. 

Sect. 4. — Stuffings, Fobcemeatb, &c. 

331. These articles, whether in the form of stuffing, forcemeat, or 
balls, make a considerable part of good cooking by the flavour they 
impart to whatsoever dish they are added to, if properly compounded. 
Exact rules for the quantities of which they are composed cannot 
easily be given ; but the following observations may be useful, and 
habit will soon give knowledge in mixing them to the taste. According 
to what it is wanted for, should be the selection from the following 
list, observing that of the most pungent articles least must be used. 
No one flavour should predominate greatly ; and if several dishes are 
served on the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste 
of the forcemeat, as well as the gravies. It should be consistent 
enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. 

FOBCSMKAT IKGRSDIEMIS. 
XaSKNTIAK ACCEaSOET. 

Cold fowl or veaL Oy-^ters. 

Scraped ham. Anchovy. 

Fat bacon. Tamtgon. 

Beef-soet. Savoury herb. 

Crumbs of bread. Pennyroyal 

Parsley. Knotted maijoraia 

White pepper. Tbymo. 



108 KVOUBH CXMXBET. 



8idL BMfL 

Kutmef. Toiks oTIuud 

Yolk and white of egg well toatea Cayenne, 

to Mud tbe iBtztvre. Garlle. 

Sbalot. 
ChlTca. 

Jamaica pepper. In line pofwds^ or 
two or ttaxee tdorei. 

The first column contaiiiB the articles of which the forcemeat may 
be made without any striking flavonr ; and to those may be added 
some of the different ingredients of the second colunn to vary the 
taste. 

Common SrDFFiKa, or Forcemeat. 

332. Take three or four ounces of suet, with an equal quantity of 
real (or if for turkeys, chopped oysters), two ounces of finely-grated 
bread, chop these up with parsley already minced yeiy finely, and 
flaYour with a little lemon-peel, nutmeg, or mace, white pepper and 
salt (lemon-thyme or sweet marjoram are thought an improvement 
by some). Then blend all with the yolks of two or three eggs well 
beaten. 

Stuffing or Forcemeat for Fowl or Veal. 

333. Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some 
beef-suet, a small quantity of onion, some parsley, a little lemon-peel, 
salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or cayfenne^ 
and bread crumbs. Pound in a mortar, and bind it with one or two 
eggs beaten and strained, adding thyme or marjoram, or both together, 
according to fancy. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. 

Stuffing for Hare. 

334. To make this, chop up the liver with an anchovy, some fat 
bacon, two ounces of suet, herbs as for veal, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a 
little onion, two ounces of crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. 

Forcemeat Balls. 

335. Beat half a pound of lean veal or pork and half a pound of suet 
well in a mortar, put in three eggs, and some grated bread ; season it 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel, two cloves, and a blade or 
two of mace. Make it into small balls, and fry them a light brown. 

Another JReceipt — ^A pound of fresh suet, one ounce of ready- 
dressed veal or chicken chopped fine, bread crumbs, a little shalot or 



flTTJFFIKG FOB SUCKIHO PI08. IM 

nion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyrojal, panlej, and 
smon thyme finely shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites 
eparately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll 
Dto small balls, and fry them in fresh lard, putting them in jnst as it 
>oils np. When of a light brown, take them out and drain before the 
ire. If the suet is moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be 
lecessary. Forcemeat balls made in this way are remarkably light ; 
>at being somewhat greasy, some peoj^e prefer them with kss suet 
,nd eggs. 

Forcemeat Balls iroR Fish Soupfl ox Stews. 

336. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an 
mchoTy, a large piece of boiled celeiy, the yolk of a hard egg, a little 
cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsfnl of 
>read crumbs, and one of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter wanned, 
md two eggs long beaten ; make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in 
>utter. 

LiTTLB £00 Balls for StewS or Soups. 

337. Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a 
)aste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw 
;hem into boiling water for two minutes to harden. 

Another. — ^Boil three eggs hard, remoTC the whites, and ponnd 
:he yolks in a mortar ; when reduced to a powder, add the siie of three 
walnuts of butter and a table-spoonfrd of fine flour ; make them into 
balls the size of marbles. 

Stufpino for Geesb ahd Ducks. 

338. Geese and Ducks, before being spitted for roasting, are usually 
stafied with sage and onions, boiled, chopped fine, and then mixed 
with, an equal quantity of potatoes. 

Stuffiho for Suckiko Pigs. 

339. The pig is always^stuffed with some kind of stuffing containing 
<age, a good receipt for which is, to take a quarter of a pound of crumbs 
)f bread, one onion, a small handful of sage, a raw egg, and a small 
liece of butter ; these should be well mixed together with a little 
pepper and salt. Then fill the belly of the pig, and sew up with a 
^mmon needle and thread. Another plan is to cut a round of bread 
Jiick, as for toast, brown it yery lightly, and butter it, then «o«Sl\\ va 



110 KKOLISH COOKERY. 



some water in which a handful of sage and an onion hare been boiled, 
cut it into long pieces, and lay it in the belly, with alternate layers ot 
the boiled sage leaTcs, but no onion, after which it is to be dosed as 
above. 

Stuffing for Boast Pohk. 

340. This is the same as for Geese and Ducks (see par. 338.) 

Fried Bread to serve with Soup. 

341. Cut slices of stale bread nearly half an inch in thickness, and 
again into squares or diamonds, or with a cutter into shapes, put a 
slice of butter into the fi7iog-pan, and when melted put in the bread. 
Turn it constantly while frying till it is all of a nice light brown. 
Drain the butter from it, and dry it on a cloth before the fire, or on 
paper in a sieve. It will take nearly an ounce of batter to fry a 
quarter of a pound of bread. 

Sippets of Bread to garnish Hashes. 

342. May be made by simply toasting slices of bread an inch in 
thickness ; paring off the crusts, and cutting the slices into angular 
pieces. Or, by cutting the bread in the shape of common sippets, soak- 
ing them for three quarters of an hour with a spoonful of cream gently 
dropped upon each, and then frying them in butter of a light brown ; 
after which they must be drained on a cloth by the fire, and served hot 
and dry. If as an ornamental garnish, they may be cut in shapes with 
a paste-cutter. 

Fried Bread Crumbs an Accompaniment to Boast Pheasants, 

Partridges, and Grouse. 

343. Grate some stale bread, and if not very fine shake the crumbs 
through a colander so as to lie lightly in the dish. Melt a slice of butter 
in a frying-pan, and fry the crumbs till all are well and equally colour- 
ed, stirring them to prevent burning, then well drain and dry them on 
paper, or a cloth spread upon a sieve. If preferred, the crumbs may be 
browned very gently in a cool or a Dutch oven, without butter. They 
are easily removed with a slice. 

Sect. 5. — Sausages, Black Puddings, &c. 

344. These Savoury Compounds are made with various materials 
chopped and mixed together, either by the hand or with the aid of a 



SVOKED S^rSACai OK FCKOnSL 111 



common chopper aad boud, 
which last acts lemaAMj weO, bat 
priTate houses to waiiaot its 
properly cleaned kogtiis of tbe 
and tied at short interrals with 
entrails thej are turned 
well scraped and washed m 





345. Chop fiU aad lean of porii 
pepper, and salt, and add two or three 
meat, rather more lean than fitt, 
and a little lemon-peel if approved; 
about two pounds of meat to be 
entrails that hare been soaked 
meat may be kept in a -wtrj small 
and dusted with a Terj little Mam 
mashed potatoes put in a form, plaia, or 
der, or before the fire; the sausages mast be 
they are dressed or th^ will bunt, 
fried. (See Frying, page 54.) 

Boi>OGVA Sausacis. 

346. Chop TCiy fine a <iuaiter of a pomd xcal, a 
of salted bee^andaqnarter ofa pomd of salt pofk; 
half a pound of bacon ; mix these together, and 
spoonful of sage, three tea^qiooBsAd of auxed heriic, half a 
spoonful of ground pepper, three tea^qiooBsAd of auxed spiee, fill 
the skin (a large one), and boil qudly lor aeaityaa hoBr, yoAit, \aj 
it on straw until cold, then hang it up to drr. 

Labob Smoked Sausagbs ok PofxnriKS. 

347. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, sajtpetre, Uaek 
pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat ; the 
sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot or gsilie, 
as fine as possible; have ready an ox-gut that has been seoored, 
salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the abore stuffing ; tie up the 
ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it ia 
a fold or two of old muslin ; it must be high -dried. 8ant tax '^ 
without boilinji^ but others like it boiled first. Tbe ^km iflbnM^ V«. 




112 ENGLISH OOOKEBT. 



tied in different places, so as to make each link abont eight or nine 
inches long. 

Oxford Sausages. 

34S. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared 
of skin and sinews; add three-quarters of a pound of beef-suet; 
mince and mix them ; steep the crumb of a penny-loaf in water, and 
mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper, and salt ' 

Bbbf jjn> Ybal Sjlvsaoks. 

349. These are made with beef Or veal in the same way as for pork 
(S45), but there is generally a larger proportion of spice ; the herbs 
added are marjoram, thyme, and parsley instead of sage. 

To Make Black Puddikos. 

350. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, 
or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak one night ; and soak ihe 
crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk 
made hot. In the mean time prepare the entrails by washing, turning^ 
and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. 
Chop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, a good quantity of penny- 
royal, pepper and salt, a few doyes, some allspice, ginger and nut- 
meg; mix these with three pounds of beef-suet and six eggs well 
beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c., all up with 
the seasoning; when well mixed, have ready some hog's fat cut into 
large bits, and as you fill the skins put it in at proper distances. He 
in links only half filled, and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as 
they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean 
cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, 
scald them a few minutes in water ; wipe, and put them into a Dutch 
oven. If there are not skins enough, put the staffing into basins, and 
boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when to be used. 

Another Receipt — Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much 
boiling hot milk as will swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. 
Chop a good quantity of pennyroyal, some savoury and thyme ; then 
add salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with 
a quart of the blood, prepare as before directed ; then half fill the 
skins after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of 
the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. 



OOOKIKG SAW BUTCmH^ g XEAl^ IIS 

Boil as before directed. A small qnantitj of leds imidj dned aad 
well mixed is a great impiOTemeiit. 

White Hog's Puddixgs. 

351. When the skins bare been soaked and cleaned as before direct' 
ed, rinse and soak them all ni^it in rose-water, sad pat into < 
following filling : — ^Mix half a ponnd of blanched •im^mdf est 
seven or eight bits, with a poond of grated bread, two poaadi of i 
row or suet, a ponnd of corrants, some beaten annamoa, dovci^ 
and nutmeg, a qoart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of tww 
a little orange«flower water, a litUa fine lisbon a^ar, and i 
peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skinSi To know 
perly flaTonred, warm a little in a pawafkiw. la bojliafr 
most be taken to prevent the poddiagp bom bontia^ Pock 
with a small fork as they rise, and boil them ia milk sad watcx. Laj 
them in a table-cloth till c<^d. 

Another Wiite Soft Puddmg. — T wo quarts ofpoala steeped a oaa 
and a half pint of water, then add ^ye |nnts of milk. Boil ^e §km of 
the leaf, and any bits of fiU or poik dripping with the groats ; 
thoroughly done, add twelve cloves ponnded, a good haodfol of i 
royal, two onions (previovdj b<Mled to make them less stroogX 
or eight leeks, a little marjorsm and aalmeg ]daat, with pepper 
salt. When the skins are stuffed and tied, pat theas iato liffisy 
and boil for twenty minutes, lay them on straw to drain and eooL 




SATEunra. 

852. These are made of salt poik, of which the Hit and lean are 
mixed together and diopped with a fourdi part of bread, a Httie pepper 
and allspice, and a rather libeial aseof Mge leaves. They are pat ia 
skins as for pork sausages, and boiled slowly fiv half an hoar, dico 
put by and eaten cold* 



CHAF. X— THE COOKING Or SAW BinXTHES'S MEAT. 

Sect. 1. — Bemabks. 

353. The general directions for roasting, baking, boiling; frying; and 
broiling, will be found under their respective Chapters, at pages 41 
fi seq., while the preparations of sauces, &C., are described at pages 94 
titeq, 

\ 



114 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



354. For Remarks on the quality of meat, qnanti^ of bone in the 
Tarioos joints, price, choosing, description of joints, itc^ see the 
Economical Houiekeeper, page 10 e/ seq. 

Sect. 2. — ^Bebf. 

355. For the most economical joints see Economical Housekeeper, 
pages 19, 20. 

356. BojLST Beef being generally thick in substance, and the joint 
of largo size, the fire must be made of plenty of coals. The sirloin 
requires the fat to be prepared on the inside, as well as that on the 
ribs. Constant basting is necessary at first with strong salt and 
water, and afterwards with its own dripping. Gravy may always be 
made for beef according to the plan given at page 96. Horseradish 
scraped is generally served round the dish ; and also for sauce (see 
Horseradish Sauce). Time for roasting, from a quarter of an hour 
per pound, to twenty minutes, according to the size of the joint and 
the taste of those who intend to partake of it, some liking meat half 
done, while others require it entirely free from a red colour. 

357. A Beef Heabt, or as it is sometimes called Bullock's Hbabt, 
should be well washed (not soaked) in water, and stuffed with the same 
as for veal (see pars. 332, 333). Tie up all the openings with strong 
cotton, and then roast according to weight (fifteen to twenty minutes 
per pound, the latter for most tastes). 

Imitation Hare. 

358. A thick piece of steak niay be covered with the same stuffing 
as for heart (see last par.), then roll it, tie with fine string, and roast 
according to weight (fifteen to twenty minutes per pound). 

To Boil Marrow-Bones. 

359. The large ends of the marrow bones should be sawn, so that 
they will stand upright both when boiling and when served, and the 
cut ends first be covered with a paste of flour and water, and then with 
a cloth tightly tied over each to prevent the escape of the marrow. 
Boil them from one and a half to two hours, according to the size. 

.Kemove the paste and serve hot on a napkin, with pieces of toasted 
bread arranged round. The marrow-bones should be more than half- 
boiled if required to be kept before using. 

Boiled Beef (Salted). 

360. Beqidres, like all boiled meats, vigilant skimming. The addi- 



TO STEW A BUMP OF BEEF. 115 

tion of vegetables to the pot in the same water appears to pierent 
much of the jnice being extracted, and is, therefore, economical, as 
well as improving the flavour. Carrots, parsnips, greens, ttumip- 
tops, and peas-pudding are eaten in different fiunilies with it ; also « 
plain suet-pudding. The liquor from salt-beef is generally too full of 
salt to make soup without any addition of other stock or water; but 
mixed with from two-thirds to three-quarters of either it serves verj 
well, and contains a large quantity of nutritive matter, highly valued 
by the poor who are at all imbued with economical principles ; and 
therefore, when not wanted at home, it should be saved for any poor 
and deserving neighbours. Many people stuff boiled parsley into holes 
cut in boiled beef. The time must be reckoned from the moment that 
the water boils, after being dashed with cold ; and here, as in the case 
of roasting, it may vary from a quarter of an hour per pound, to 
twenty minutes, according to taste. 

A Wholesome Method of Cookiko Beef. 

361. Put the beef in a saucepan (with a lid), at the side of the fire. 
Put very little or no water, and let it simmer for three or four hours, 
according to the size of the piece of beet 

To Stew ▲ Rump of Beef. 

362. Wash it well, and season high with salt, allspice, pepper, 
cayenne, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind 
it up tight, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it. Pry three large 
onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a 
shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat 
with good beef broth or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible 
for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat ; add to the gravy 
half a pint of port-wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of 
ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint 
of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be parsley, 
thjme, basil, marjoram, or knotted marjoram, and some chives if at 
hand, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the 
several sorts ; let there be a good handful all together. Garnish with 
carrots, turnips, mushrooms, or pickles of different colours, cut small, 
and laid in little heaps separately ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, 
&c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a 
part to season for serving, but the less water the better ; and to increase 
the richness, add a few beef-bones and shanks of multoTk m %^/e^rak^. 



116 SNOLnH OOOKKBT. 



A ipoonftil or two of made mnsterd is « great improTement to the 

Shht of Bbef. 

363. Take off the skin and cat kmg ineees off; stew them gentlj in a 
little water till tender, then add tomata sanoe (or, if fresh tomatas, 
boil and mb throngh a sieTe), and boil. Season with pepper and salt. 

Or — ^Dip it in Tinegar; stew gentlj till tender, with one or two 
onions, and serve. 

Stswbo Bbef Stbak. 

364. Frj a tender steak in the nsnal waj, bnt lightly, with the 
onions, turnips, and earrots ; then stew as aboire, and it will be better 
flaToored than when in a large mass. It maj be done with or with- 
out the carrots and tomips. K without them, the graTy mnst be 
flavoured with Worcestershire sauce and anchovy, and thickened with 
a little flour or arrowroot. 

To Stbw Bkisket of Beef. 

365. Put the part with the hard fat into a stew-pot with a small 
quantity of water ; let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly ; then add 
carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few peppercorns. Stew till ex- 
tremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat 
from the soup. Serve that and the meat in a tureen ; or the soup 
alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some yegetables. The 
following sauce is much admired, served with the beef: — ^Take half a 
pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port- 
wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and 
salt ; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat 

A Plain Beef Ste^ 

366. Cut steaks from a sirloin or tender round of beef witliout fat 
or bone, season, and put them in a pot with one quart of water to 
every three pounds of meat. When the whole has simmered one hour 
and been well skimmed, mix with it twelve potatoes, and six turnips 
pared and quartered ; and, if liked, two onions sliced thin. If the stew 
appears dry, add a little boiling water ; let it stew slowly till the whole 
is tender ; serve with vegetables round. Beef stewed with parsnips 
only is very good. 



JL SOLLED TOKGUX TO BAT COLD. llf 

BSEF-BOUILLI. 

367. Beef-bonilli la fresh beef boiled Tcrj akmly im « taudl qaa»- 
titj of water; the liquor being in this way yie i ei i e d for flock, mad 
not being salt, there is no loss. To an En^^ish palate, fiesli beef 
boiled to rags is not pleasant, but when serred with Tegetahles ii if 
by no means to be despised ; and, as a regular article of diet, la the 
only one which preserres aU the goodness without waste. It i 
that the same may be done with the liqnor oi boiled mattOB ; b«i 
more water is nsed, and consequently the liqnor is not so good* 
neither will the meat bear so much boiling. The eecmomist Is, tkcro- 
fore, strongly advised to try this plan cmce a week for a fiiaily, and a 
a rery short time it will be lelished here as much as in Fhmce. Whea 
boiled with winter peas, or green peas (old), or greens, the iaroar of 
the meat is improTcd, and the soup the next day is mofe easily aedc^ 
(See the Pot-au-feu, among the soups.) 

To Boil ▲ Tqmous. 

36B. If a smoked or dried tongue it should be soaked oreniig^ Vat 
if fresh from the pickle three or four boon will be loag fiinagh 
Put it on the fire in cold water, and let it take an horn or tvo mm 
coming to a boil ; then draw it back, and let it simmer for Hiree or 
four hours longer, till tender quite through. A few eanoCs aad 
turnips sliced and boiled in the water improre the fotTonr. Tnm. 
the root, peel and glaze the tongue, and garnish widi a paper frill 
around the root end, and a rose, or some one or two flowers est 
in turnip, and stuck upon small branches of Portugal laurel ob the 
top, over the windpipe. 

To Stkw jl Tovoux. 

869. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for nx or serca 
days, rubbing and turning it ereiy day. Boil it till tender enongh to 
peel ; then stew it in a pretty good gravy, seasoned widi ketekvp, 
cayenne, and a little mace, adding salt if needed. The tongue shoald 
be served with truffles, morels, and mushrooms stewed in gravy, aad 
little heaps of mashed turnips round the dish, or portions of bfoeolL 

A Rolled ToNOua to Eat Cold. 

370. Aflter being well seasoned and salted, the tongne shodH b% 
removed from the pickle, and either bdled or laid hi % ibmSL -^la^L^ftid^ 



118 EHGUSH OOOKEST. 

some batter orer it, and eorered with a flonF-aBd-water-cnist, then 
baked yerj ilowl j till extremely tender ; ped, and. prtm it into a tin 
mould with as much fiat as possible (or loQ it ronnd into a smaller tin 
than is used for a brawn) ; lay a weight npon It, and when perfect!/ 
cold it is readj for use. Fold writing'>paper loand, widi a finll at the 
top, if the latter shape be nsed. 

Another Mode. — A tin is also necessarj for the pnrposey the same as 
that nsed for mock-brawn, or a white preserre-jar, widi a large hole 
knocked in the bottom, will answer yery welL When the tongne is 
boiled and skinned, lay it in the jar or tin, coiled up, widi the tip 
outside the root, and npon the top a garden saucer, fitting the tin 
or pot, and containing at least a weight of ten pounds, then set it 
by till cold. To turn it out, loosen the sides with a knife, then turn it 
upside down, and push it ont through the hole in the bottom. The 
slices being cut horizontallj all round, the fat and the lean must go 
together. 

Fillet of Bbbf Stewed. 

371. Take the inside of a sirloin of beef, stuffed or plain, rolled up 
with the fat in the centre. Put a little good stock into the stewpan 
with a few slices of lean ham, and then the meat, which must be coyered 
with carrots and celery cut in dice, or the former in shapes, a few 
small onions, savoury herbs, and a little chopped pickle; flaronr with 
salt, popper, mace, and a little ketchup, simmer till tender, and brown 
the beef before the fire ; skim and season the sauce, remoye the herbs, 
and serve the whole hot. 

Beef Stewed A-la-Mode. 

372. Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into 
long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from rancidity ; let each bit 
be near an inch thick; dip them into yinegar, and then into a seasoning 
ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine 
powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, 
shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make 
holes deep enough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with 
a seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned 
pot over a fire or rather stove; three or four onions must be fried 
brown and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a 
head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer 
gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat 



BOLLED BEEF. HQ 



twice. Pat the gravj into a pan, remoye the fat, keep the beef coTered, 
then put them together, and add a glass of port -wine. Take of the 
tape, and serre with the yegetables ; or jou may strain them off, and 
send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, and then 
stewed with the gravy, are a great improTement. A tea-capful of 
yinegar should be stewed with the beef. 

A Fbicakdejlu of Beef. 

373. Take a nice piece of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned 
with pepper, salt, cIoycs, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stewpan 
with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all 
sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, 
pepper, and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close ; skim 
the sauce well, and strain it ; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is 
reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the 
meat on sorrel sauce. 

Beef Collopb. 

374. Take some beef that is tender and free from skin, cut it into 
small thin pieces, hack it with a knife ; then butter a stewpan, and put 
in as much beef as will cover the pan, with a little onion, some cucnm- 
ber cut small, and salt and pepper. Put it over a quick fire, and give 
two or three tosses about ; two or three minutes will do them. Add a 
little flour, butter, and water to the stewpan after taking the coUops 
out, to make your gravy. Garnish, if approved, with pickles. 

Beef Robabt. 

375. Take the inside of a sirloin of beef, cut it very thin, then fry it 
in butter just to change the colour ; put it in a pan with some gravy, to 
stew with shalots, anchovy-essence, mushrooms, and oysters. Thicken 
the gravy, and serve with fried sippets of bread. 

Kolled Beef. 

376. Take nearly two pounds of the inside of a sirloin or other 
tender beef, with three quarters of a pound of bacon; chop them finely, 
and mix well together, with nearly a spoonful of black pepper, and a 
little cayenne, salt, mace, and the grated rind of a lemon. Boll it up 
together, in a paper well buttered, and cover the whole with a thin 
paste of flour and water. Bake it two hours, and, after removing the 
coverings, serve it in a rich brown gravy. Yeal may b^ «v)^%\.\\.>a^A^ 



120 ENGI18H OOOKSRT. 



for the beef, in which case nmshrooms or cony powder would be an 
improTement. 

Beef Palates, Stkwed. 

377. Simmer them for seyeral hours till they will peel ; then cut the 
palates into slices, or leave them whole, as preferred ; and stew them 
in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before serving them up, 
season with cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, 
add also some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in 
milk, and stew them in a fricassee-sauce, adding cream, batter, flour, 
and moshroom powder, and a little pounded mace. 

To Boll Beef Palates. 

378. Boil five or six palates gently, till you can peel and trim them ; 
what you cut away should be stewed with a little of the liquor, 
seasoned with a glass of white wine, and thickened with flour and 
butter till the grav}' is good. Cover the outside of the palates with 
yolk of egg, and then with a well-seasoned forcemeat. Boll the 
palates up, and tie them tightly with a string or tape ; lay them in a 
stewpan, with a little butter, and a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, 
and simmer gently for two hours. Lay the stewed trimmings upon 
a dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it, and then lay on the 
rolled palates ; pour over it the mixed gravy from both stewpaUs, and 
garnish with mushroom pickle, forcemeat, and egg balls. 

To Fry Palates. 

379. Boil them till half done, split them in halves, spread some 
forcemeat, and roll up the halves ; make a batter of yolk of eggs, flour, 
a little butter, and a few spoonsful of white wine, the batter must be 
added by degrees, and should be as thick as good cream ; fry them a 
light brown, and serve on a napkin, or with a good gravy, or they 
may be dipped simply in egg and crumbs. 

To Stew aw Ox-To»gub. 

380. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, 
turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel ; when done, stew 
it in a moderately strong gravy; season vrith soy, mushroom ketchup, 
cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt, if necessary. Serve with truffles, 
morels, or mushrooms. In this receipt the roots must be taken off 
the tongues before salting, but some fat left. 



TO FRY OB BROIL SUHP OR BKEF STEAKS. 181 



Stewkd Ox-Chsek (Plais). 

381. 8oak and cleanse a iioe cheek tbe daj before it is to be eaten ; 
put it into a ftewpot that will cover close, with three quarts of water ; 
simmer it after it has first boiled op and been well skimmed. In two 
hours put plenty of carrots and leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it 
often ; when the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup get cold, 
take o£f the cake of fat, and seire the soup separate or with the meat. 
The colour should be a fine brown, which may be efiected bj adding 
burnt sugar, or hj frying some onions quite brown with flour, and 
simmering them with it. This last way improTcs the flavour of all 
soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approred 
in the soup^ they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or 
bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always 
be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed gives quite as good a 
flavour boiled in, and strained off. 

To Fbt or Bboil BtncF os Beet Si&ikb. 

382. Let the steaks be cut from the rump in rather thin layers, and 
the chops be as usual. Then fry in lard or dripping in the English 
manner (see pars. 97 and 103), turning them repeatedly until done. 
When ready, keep them hot in a dish by the fire, while making the 
gravy, which is done as follows : — ^Pour off as much of the fat as pos- 
sible, but leaving behind all the gravy or coloured part (there must be, 
at least, altogether two table-spoonsfol of gravy, or gravy and fat). 
Thicken this with a table-spoonful of flour, stirred into it dry ; put the 
pan on the fire, and brown it slightly, then add a table-spoonful of 
ketchup (mushroom or walnut), a table-spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, or a little of mixed pickle chopped up ; pepper and salt slightly, 
and reduce to a proper degree of thickness by adding hot water by 
degrees. Large onions sliced are sometimes fried with beef-steaks, or 
pickled mushrooms, and served with them, in which case they are 
taken out with the steaks, and the sauce made afterwards in the same 
way as above. If onions or mushrooms are not liked, it is usual to 
garnish with scraped horseradish, or pickles. 

(For directions to fry, see page 54.) 

383. Broiled Steaks should be cut from a well-kept rump, and 
they aare generally liked about three-quarters of an inch thick. Most 
cooks beat them well with a rolling-pin for ten mi]i\ii^'&\ \^^\.Si ^^u^ 



122 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



meat is of good quality, and the romp has heen well kept, there will 
be no necessitj for this. Just before finishing, mb a lump of batter 
over, and lightlj dredge with pepper and salt, adding the mnshroom 
powder at discretion. Pickles and scraped horseradish make a good 
garnish, and for sauce, (see Meat Sauces.) 
(For directions to broil, see page 54.) 

To Fby Beef Kidke±, 

384. Cut in slices, and soak for an hour in cold water. Then fry it 
in the same way as for steaks, (par. 382.) 

Fillets of Beev. 

385. Cut the inside of a sirloin of beef into slices half an inch in 
thickness, trim them, and season with pepper and salt, and fry them, 
and serve with tomata or sorrel sauce. 

Tbifb. 

386. Tripe should always be bought ready prepared by the tripe- 
seller, in which state it merely requires boiling for an hour. 

To Boil Tbipb. 

387. Put it into milk and water mixed in equal quantities, with two 
or three onions previously boiled in several waters. Serve the whole 
together, and with it melted butter or oyster sauce, or by some people 
onion sauce is preferred. 

To Fbt Tbipb. 

388. Dip each piece in butter, and fry in the usual way with sliced 
onions. 

Cow Heels. 

389. Cow heels, like tri^e, are best prepared by the tripe-seller, or 
they require careful soaking and cleansing. They then merely require 
warming up in boiling water, or milk and water, after wWch they 
should be served with cuttle sauce, or with parsley and batter, or 
simple melted butter. They are sometimes eaten cold with vinegaf 
and salad. 

Sect. 3. — ^Muttok. 

*390. For the most economical joints, &c.^ %^^ Economico/ H^oiisekeqter, 
page 24. 



A LOIK OR ITECK OF MUTTON. 183 

To Roast Mxjtton. 

991. MnttoD, except the haunch) is not of sufficient size to require 
fidte so large a fire as beef; still it cannot be roasted without a brisk 
and full fire. It should be papered wherever there is fat to be saved 
Ibr eating, as in the inside and outside of the haunch or the loin ; but 
9edA and shoulders are none the better for this care. For ordinarj 
piuposes the gravy made as in par. 75, is sufficient, but for haunches, 
and sometimes for legs and saddles, a wine gravy is made (which see) 
and served with currant jelly ; with shoulders some prefer onion sauce. 
Mutton is not improved by basting with water and salt, but should be 
well basted in its own fat ; and towards the last plentifully dredged 
with flour. The time required is, on the average, as for beef— viz., 
one quarter of an hour per pound ; but, whatever the weight, the time 
for long and thin joints, like necks and loins, vnll be nearly the 
same. Legs or saddles of ten pounds will take two and a half hours. 
The shoulder, being more flat, will take a quarter of an hour less 
than the usual allowance — say, for nine pounds, two hours. The loin 
and neck, also, will require rather less than that calculation. 

To Boil Mutton. 

392. A leg or shoulder of Mutton may be boiled, but the former is 
the most frequently dressed in this way. Turnips or greens are the 
ordinary concomitants, and caper sauce, or nasturtium sauce, without 
any other gravy than that coming out of the meat when cut. The 
time taken will be in accordance with the regular rule, or rather more 
— say, for large legs, half an hour in addition. The liquor makes 
good stock. 

Neck of Mutton 

893. Is boiled and served like the leg, but it will not take more tune 
than the regular allowance. 

Shoulder of Mutton with Bbead-ckumbs 

394. Is flrst boiled, and then slightly browned before the fire in a 
Dutch oven, being first dredged with bread-crumbs. In this way the 
flavour is much improved. 

A Loin ok Neck of Mutton 

395. Is rendered less gross, by being partly roasted aad^iXtiL^ V^^ 



124 TSQUSB. 



— either maj be done first — according as it is to appear as a roast or a 
boiled joint at table ; bnt it looks best if sent as a roast joint. 

Stewkd Mcnos— (LkUH Scsw)l 

396. Take some mntton-chops and cnt off part of the fill, lay them 
in the bottom of a stewpan, slice some onions yeiy thin, and strew 
them orer with pepper and salt, cnt a qnantitj of potatoes in halres 
and lay on the top, pnt water snffideot to keep it from bnming, and to 
make grarj when it is tnmed oat ; let it stew gently for abont three 
hours before adding the potatoes, and three-qoarters of an hour after. 

Habicot of Mcttov. 

397. Take a loin or neck of mutton, cut it in tlun steaks, and take 
away part of the fat. Then butter a stewpan ; flour the meat, dredge 
a little pepper and salt oyer it, lay the best pieces into the pan, and 
set it oyer the fire to brown ; turn them one at a time ; then pnt in 
some onions and celery, some sliced carrots and turnips (first boiled 
and then fried), and lay them on the mutton with just water enough 
to cover the meat. Put a layer of mutton, and then carrots. This 
will take three hours to stew. Add a little ketchup, or anchoyy, or 
Worcestershire sauce to the grayy before serving. 

Another Receipt. — ^Take the middle of a neck or loin of mutton, cut 
it into thin steaks, season them with pepper and salt, and brown them 
in a pan with batter ; when brown, pour off the butter, and put in 
three pints of boiling water, one anchovy, one onion, a few turnips and 
carrots, cut into shapes. Stew it gently for two hours, or more. 
Thicken with flour and butter just as you send it up. The haricot is 
richer if the carrots and turnips are browned in the pan after the 
steaks are taken out, before being stewed. 

Stewed Mutton Cutlets (French). 
39 S. Skin a loin of mutton, and cut it into steaks. Make a force- 
meat with lean of veal, beef suet, thyme, sweet marjoram, and one 
onion, all cut small ; essence of anchovy, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and 
the yolks of two eggs, with some grated bread. Insert some of the 
forcemeat in the lean of the steaks, and cover all thickly with it 
Stew till tender in a little gravy. Then put each steak in a battered 
piece of writing-paper ; turn in the comers of the paper to keep in 
the moisture, and finish them on the gridiron ; or they may be bsJ^ed 
from the first in the oven. Serve in the papers. 



8TBWED MUTtOm CITTLEfS (aJIEBICAX). 119 

HoT-Poc 

399. Take some fine c]iop8 finom ft ne^ of BBttoa, mmd 
nicely, taking off most of die fiii. Lay liiem aft tte teCDOB of a 
and rather wide dish, and season them villi yegfper and saSi. Lar a 
few slices of an onion in the middle at tiie boaoB of ^be dkih, if tbe 
flaTonr is approred, and poor a qnaiter of a piat of cold waer vpoa 
the whole. Hien corer it with a layer of sBeed pmatnfi, «b tte tof 
of which lay a few more small diops, well seiinf lij aai ea««r all 
with anotiier layer of sHeed potatoes. Bake finom wm hamr to «■ 
and a hal( or more, aceoiding to tiie ssae of tke disli ; m a 
moderate oren. 

Mock Ykhisos Szewedu 

400. Take a fat loin of mutton, the outer skin mast be uiijiy ed o^ 
and the bones cat onL Fat the bones into a i t e apan with a p»od* 
sized onion stack with doTes, one anchofy, loaM pcppereoiBs. aai a 
bonch of sweet herbs. Stew for three boars in a snail qaaaiiij of 
water, then strain. The matton shoold be beaten with a rollipg pii, 
and nntmei^ grated over the inside the prerioas ni^t. Befoie k is 
put in the stewpan it most be rolled np tiglil, begimiing at the tsl 
end, and tied with a strong string. Add half a pint of port-wise to 
the graTy, and let it all stew together for three boon at lean. A 
large loin or saddle will require four hours. When doae tbe fit 
mast be skimmed ol^ and the grary thickened with a little loar mmd 
batter, and a small quantity of ketchup added. 

SiBWED MuTfOK CCTUn (AjfKBICAjr). 

401. RemoTO the fat and bone, beat tiie entleti, and seaaoa wiA. 
pepper and salt, and nutmeg. Put them in a dicular tin keltic^ with 
bits of batter rolled in flour. Set the ketde closely eoreved upoa a 
trivet inside a flat-bottomed pot. Pour boiling water round ; set tbe 
pot on a slow fire, and let the stew simmer two hours ; tiien lift up the 
meat, and put under it a lettuee cut in four; three cacumbcn cat ap^ 
two onions sliced, mace, salt, and a little more butter rolled in floor; 
set again in boiling water, always taking care that the water danMi 
not be above the top of the inner kettle ; let it «i«n wT two^ioviftmcffe 
and serve; place tbe meat on tbe vegetablea, ^M W^tns % 'ivk*Sb ^ 

boiled peas round. 21i« bcme may be left in etdi cuilci il 



126 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



Rolled Loin of Mutton. 

402. Bone a loin of mutton, stuff it with veal stuffing. Boll it 
round, roast it, and serre with gravy and sweet sauce. 

Stewed Fillet of Mutton (Amekican). 

403. Cut a fillet from a leg of mutton, remove the fat from the out- 
side, and take out the bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin, and ruh 
it with pepper and salt ; fill the place of the bone with a stuffing of 
firmly mixed onions, bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg,^ 
well mixed. Make deep cuts all over the surface of the meat, and fill 
them with the stuffing. Bind a tape round the meat, put it In a stew- 
pan with sufficient water to cover it, and let it stew slowly four, five, or 
six hours according to its size, skimming frequently. Serve with its own 
gravy. A thick round of fresh beef is very good stuffed and stewed in 
the same manner ; it will take longer stewing than the mutton. 

To Stew a Loin of Mutton. 

404. Bemove the bones from a loin of tender mutton ; take off the 
skin, and remove the fat from the inside ; brown it with butter in a 
stew-pan or Dutch oven, then add broth to cover it ; carrots and tur- 
nips cut in shapes, celery, and a very little onion ; stew till very tender, 
and flavour with ketchup, and a glass of port-wine. After placing the 
meat on the dish, keep it hot, while carefully scumming the fat from the 
gravy before pouring it over the meat. 

To Stew a Sheep's Head. 

405. Split a sheep's head open, and after browning it in a Dutch 
oven, stew it for two hours or more in a gallon of water, with a quarter 
of a pound of Scotch barley or rice, three onions, three turnips, a 
little parsley ; then mix a quarter of a pound of oatmeal in a pint of 
water, pour it in, and let it all boil up together. 

Hodge-podge. 

406. Take a scrag of mutton, and half a pound of green split peas, 
and two pints of water, and let it boil two hours ; strain the soup 
through a cloth, then add carrots, tumip!«, lettuce, onions, mutton 
chops (without any fat), a table-spoonful of sugar, and salt to your 

taste; half a pound of dried green, "pftaa*, ox, Vo. thair season, peas 
from the garden. If the dried peas aife uae^,>iScL^^\axs&\.\i^^\&\sS.^ 



FRENCH CUTLETS. 127 



soft water, and gently simmered till they are tender, and added to 
the soup half an hour before dinner. 

Another {A Genuine Scotch Receipf), — ^Fut on as mnch water in a 
good -sized goblet as will make two days' soup to senre six or eight of 
a family ; three hours before dinner-hour add two pounds of hough 
[Anglick, leg of beef), half a dish of old peas, one dosen of middling- 
sized carrots cut down in small pieces, and four onions cut down ; 
let this boil &n hour and a half, then add the other half-dish of peas, 
and two pounds of mutton chops. When it has all boiled for three 
hours, take out the hough and serre it up with the mutton chops in 
it. It is considered best the second day; it should be as thick as 
porridge nearly. A few beans and turnips can be added, but the tnr- 
nips are apt to sour it ; yet, when peas are scarce and youngs it is 
accessary to put turnips to make it thick enough. 

Mutton Chops. 

407. Mutton chops when fried are done exactly like steaks, see par. 
382, except that from their bones they will not bear beating, lliey 
are served in their own sauce, or with the appropriate sauce (see 
Sauces). 

408. To Bboil Mutton Chops proceed as for bee&teaks, (par. 382.) 

Mutton Cutlets. 

409. Mutton Cutlets are fried with the bread-crumb, just like the 
(real cutlets ; and, if fried in the English fashion, they generally give 
3at enough gravy to serve without any thing extra ; but the articles 
lescribed under the next paragraph may be added. 

French Cutlets (CStelettes de Moutan), 

410. Skin a loin of mutton, and cut it into steaks. Then make a 
brcemeat with an equal weight of lean veal and beef suet, and two 
inchovies, all pounded ; parsley, thyme (and a little onion previously 
)oiled till mild), chopped fine ; add grated bread crumbs, and the 
rolks of two eggs. Make holes in the steaks and fill them with the 
brcemeat, with which also they must be well covered. Place each 
:arefully in a battered paper, so that no moisture &\ia!i\ «:&ca,i^ vdl^ 
>roil them. Serve in a gravj-, with a few of the hetbE Bhxe^ 4\ife, %X5A 
I I/t/Je lemon-juice or rinegsar to f ayoor it. 



124 EKGLISH COOKERY. 



— either may be done first — according as it is to appear as a roast or a 
boiled joint at table ; but it looks best if sent as a roast joint. 

Stewed Mutton — (Irish Stew). 

396. Take some mutton-chops and cut off part of the fat, lay them 
in the bottom of a stewpan, slice some onions very thin, and strew 
them over with pepper and salt, cut a quantity of potatoes in halyes 
and lay on the top, put water sufficient to keep it from burning, and to 
make grayy when it is turned out ; let it stew gently for about three 
hours before adding the potatoes, and three-quarters of an hour afber. 

Habicot op Muttoh. 

397. Take a loin or neck of mutton, cut it in thin steaks, and take 
away part of the fat. Then butter a stewpan ; flour the meat, dredge 
a little pepper and salt oyer it, lay the best pieces into the pan, and 
set it over the fire to brown ; turn them one at a time ; then put in 
some onions and celery, some sliced carrots and turnips (first boiled 
and then fried), and lay them on the mutton with just water enough 
to coyer the meat. Put a layer of mutton, and then carrots. This 
will take three hours to stew. Add a little ketchup, or anchovy, or 
Worcestershire sauce to the gravy before serving. 

Another Beceipt — ^Take the middle of a neck or loin of mutton, cut 
it into thin steaks, season them with pepper and salt, and brown them 
in a pan with butter ; when brown, pour off the butter, and put in 
three pints of boiling water, one anchovy, one onion, a few turnips and 
carrots, cut into shapes. Stew it gently for two hours, or more. 
Thicken with flour and butter just as you send it up. The haricot is 
richer if the carrots and turnips are browned in the pan after the 
steaks are taken out, before being stewed. 

Stewed Mutton Cutlets (French). 
398. Skin a loin of mutton, and cut it into steaks. Make a force- 
meat with lean of veal, beef suet, thyme, sweet marjoram, and one 
onion, all cut small ; essence of anchovy, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and 
the yolks of two eggs, with some grated bread. Insert some of the 
forcemeat in the lean of the steaks, and cover all thickly with it 
Stew till tender in a little gravy. Then put each steak in a buttered 
piece of wntiDg'p&per ; turn in the comers of the paper to keep in 
tlie moisture, and finish them on the gddVtoxL', ox \?ae^ may be baked 
from tbe Urst ia the oven. Serve in tSi» v«^t^ 



STEWED HUTTOK CUTLETS (AMERICAN). 125 

Hot-Pot. 

399. Take some fine chops from a neck of mutton, and trim them 
nicely, taking off most of the fat. Laj them at the bottom of a deep 
and rather wide dish, and season them with pepper and salt. Laj a 
few slices of an onion in the middle at the bottom of the dish, if the 
flavonr is approTed, and ponr a quarter of a pint of cold water upon 
the whole. Hien oo'ver it with a lajer of sliced potatoes, on the top 
of which lay a few more small chops, well-seasoned, and cover ail 
with anoliier layer of sliced potatoes. Bake from an hour to an hour 
and a hali^ or more, according to the size of the dish ; in a rery 
moderate oren. 

Mock Yenison Stewed. 

400. Take a fat loin of mutton, the outer skin must be stripped off, 
and the bones cut out. Put the bones into a stewpan with a good- 
stzed onion stuck with doves, one anchovy, some peppercorns, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs. Stew for three hours in a small quantity of 
water, then strain. The mutton should be beaten vrith a rolling-pin, 
and Butmei^ grated over the inside the previous night. Before it is 
pat in the stewpan it must be rolled up tight, beginning at the tail 
end, and tied with a strong string. Add half a pint of port-wine to 
the gravy, and let it all stew together for three hours at least. A 
large loin or saddle vriU require four hours. When done the fat 
must be skimmed off, and the gravy thickened with a little flour and 
batter, and a small quantity of ketchup added. 

Stbwed Mutton Cutlets (Akerioak). 

401. BemoYC the fat and bone, beat the cutlets, and season with 
pepper and salt, and nutmeg. Put them in a circular tin kettle, with 
bits of butter rolled in flour. Set the kettle closely corered upon a 
trivet inside a flat-bottomed pot. Pour boiling water round ; set the 
pot on a slow fire, and let the stew simmer two hours ; then lift up the 
meat, and put under it a lettuce cut in four, three cucumbers cut up, 
t^o onions sliced, mace, salt, and a little more butter rolled in flour; 
set again in boiling water, always taking care that the water should 
not be above the top of the inner kettle ; let it simmer two hQ\SiX&\s^^\A 
and serve; place the meat on the vegeta\)\e8, atidi \diYwi^ «b tv^5^^\ 
boiled peas round. The bone may be left in ea^ cm^'cX* M ^t^'^^^^ 



130 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



To Stew Lamb's Head. 

423. Boil the head three-quarters of an hour, the liver a quarter of 
an hour, and the lights an hour, or rather more. Ruh the head with 
the yolk of an egg ; add some parsley, lemon-peel, a very small quantity 
of thyme, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and some hread-crumh. Grill it, 
make brain-cakes the same as for calf's head or forcemeat, and serve 
in some very rich gravy ; and, if it is not thick enough, add a little flour 
and butter just before taking it off the fire. 

Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

424. Wash and parboil them, stew as the calfs sweetbreads, with 
the addition of a few very young peas or French beans. 

Sect. 5. — ^Vbal. 

425. Eor the choice of veal and its most economical joints, see tAe 
Economical Housekeeper^ pages 25, 26, and 27. 

Boast Veai* 

426. Veal, In order to look and eat well, should be thoroughly done 
at a strong fire, and browned very evenly, with a certain amount of 
coating caused by the dredging with flour, or with flour and bread- 
crumb mixed. It must be constantly basted with lard, dripping, or 
butter, as its own fat is not sufficient for the purpose. It is usnal to 
stuff the fillet with forcemeat (par. 333), either filling with it the 
place where the bone was taken out, or else the flap where the fat lies, 
or by many it is preferred in both situations. Eor gravy, either make 
it from the dripping-pan (see par. 44), or else nse any gravy at hand 
made from other sources, and mix with melted butter. It is served 
with slices of lemon. The time for roasting is as follows : — ^A fillet, 
stuffed, weighing nine pounds, two hours and a half; a shoulder of 
eight pounds, an hour and three-quarters ; a breast of six pounds, one 
hour and a quarter ; loin, an hour and a quarter to two hours, accord- 
ing to size; and for these joints, when either larger or smaller, add 
or subtract a quarter of an hour per lb. 

41 
To Boil Veal. 

427. Veal must be put in plenty of boiling water, and be most care- 
fully skimmed, or it will look dirty and brown. Some cooks use a 
foaith part of milk, and this has an advantage in avoiding the exttmc- 



CUTLETS OF YEAL, WITH OY8TER& 131 

tion of the juices. The time is in accoidanoe with the generml rule. 
The parts hoUed are usually the hnckle, iheJiUet stuffed as for roast- 
ing^ and the breast with its sweetbread. Bacon or ham are eaten 
with it ; and for sance, either parsley and bntter, or white sance; or, 
bj some people, onion sance. The water in which xeal is boiled 
makes good stock, with additions ; bnt if milk is nsed it soon tnms sonr. 

YSAL C1ITLET8. 

428. Outlets are cut from a leg of veal, about a third of an inch 
thick, and of such a size as may be preferred. F17 them in plenty of 
hot lard or dripping on the French plan, or, if the English is used, turn 
them quickly. Before putting them into the pan they are to be coated 
evenly with white of egg well beaten, using an egg-brush, and then 
dipping them in finely-powdered stale bread-crumb. They should be 
fried a delicate brown, and carefully drained from the ffU. For graTy, 
some other meat must be had recourse to, as there is too little from 
yeal in the frying-pan to make it of. 

Dutch Cutlets of Yeal. 

429. Cut a thick slice frt>m a leg of Teal, beat it, and shape it into 
cutlets, and, dip them in yolk of egg. Mix a well-seasoned forcemeat, 
to which the addition of oysters is a great improvement, and spread it 
over the cutlets. They should be rolled up and finished with egg and 
crumbs in the usual way of real cutlets ; then roast them in the oven 
or before the fire, and serve with balls of the forcemeat described at 
par. 335, and which is improved by the addition of some lean ham. Serve 
with a good gravy flavoured vrith lemon-juice, mushroom ketchup, and 
a glass of sherry, or they may be served in a white sauce. 

Itauah Cutlets. 

430. Cut some well-shaped veal cutlets, and prepare some parsley 
and other sweet herbs, by chopping fine, and simmering them in a Httle 
butter melted in the pan. Dip the cutlets in yolk of egg, then spread 
on them the herbs and butter, upon which lay, plentifully, fine bread 
crumbs ; again put on egg, herbs, and crumbs, and nicely fry them, 
drain the fat from them, and glaze or not. They must be served in a 
rich and well-flavoured gravy. 

Cutlets ov Yeal, with Otstbes. 
48L Take two pounds of veal cutlets, cut them vslIo ^Od^ "^v^^tM^y 



132 ENGLISH OOOKERT. 

put them in a frying-pan with boiling lard, and let them fry till the 
Teal is half done ; then add a quart of large ojsters, their liquor 
thickened with grated bread-crumbs, and seasoned with mace and 
nutmegs. Continue frying till Teal and oysters are thoroughly done ; 
serve in a covered dish. 

Veal Cutlets, with Tomato Sauce. 

432. Season the bread-crumbs with a little salt, and a yery little 
India seasoning and pepper, then fry as usual. Make the gravy of the 
prepared tomato sauce and a little stock, thicken, put the cutlets in 
a dish, and pour the gravy round the dish. 

French Wat of Dressing a Shoulder of Veal. 

433. Cut the veal into squares and parboil them, then put the meat 
in the dish in which it is to go to table; season with salt, cayenne, 
nutmeg, powdered mace, and grated lemon rind, adding some butter or 
veal dripping rolled in flour. Make a gravy of the bones and 
trimmings, strain, and pour it in. Set it in a hot Dutch oven, and 
bake till brown ; when nearly done add two glasses of white wine, and 
serve hot. 

To Stew a Knuckle of Veal. 

434. Break the bone in two or three places ; put to it five pints of 
water, eight shalots, a bunch of sweet-herbs, some whole black pepper, 
a little salt and mace ; boil it together till half the water is consumed, 
then take out the meat, herbs, and spice, thicken with two spoonsful 
of flour, and boil it till the flour is sufficiently done ; then put back 
the best of the meat, add two glasses of Madeira wine, lemon-juice, 
and cayenne. Two calf's feet improve it much. It should be stewed 
over a slow fire. 

A Fillet of Veal Stewed "White. 

435. Add to one pint of water or gravy a little lemon-peel, mace, 
nutmeg, white pepper, and salt ; put a fillet in, stuffed as for roasting, 
and when it has stewed one hour and a half take it out, strain the 
gravy, add two dozen oysters, half a pint of white wine, and butter 
rubbed in flour ; put the veal in again, and stew it half an hour ; just 
before serving, stir in half a pint of cream. The gravy should be 
TAther thick, and poured over the veaL 



TO STEW A BBEAST OF YEAL. 13S 

Scotch Collops (White). 

436» Cut them off the thick part of a leg of veal, the size and thick- 
uess of a crown-piece ; put a lomp of butter in a stewpan, and set it 
over a slow fire, or it will discolour the collops ; lay some of them in 
before the pan is hot, and turn them over till the butter becomes of 
the consistence of a thick white grarj ; put all together in a pot, and 
set them on the hearth to keep warm ; repeat this till all are fried, 
then porr the gravy into the pan again, with a tea-spoonful of lemon- 
pickle, ketchup, caper-liquor, mace, cayenne-pepper, and salt ; thicken 
it with flour and butter ; when it has boiled gently five minutes, put in 
the yolks of two eggs with a teacnpful of thick cream ; keep shaking 
the pan over the fire till the gravy looks thick, then put in the collops 
and shake them till they are quite hot ; put them in the dish with balls 
and pickled mushrooms. 

Scotch Collops (Brown). 

437. Take a leg of veal, and cut some thin collops ; fry them, and 
season with salt and nutmeg. Boil some gravy, and when they arc 
done pour it into the pan, with ketchup, walnut-pickle, and port-wine, 
to the taste. 

To COLLAB BbEAST OF YeAL TO EaT HoT. 

438. Bone the veal, take some thyme, marjoram, pepper, salt, and 
nntmeg, a little pounded mace, shred suet, crumbs of bread, and a 
score of oysters ; beat all these in a mortar to mix them together, strew 
the mixture thickly over the veal, then roll it up into a collar, sew it 
tightly in a cloth, and boil it three hours. Serve with white sauce ; 
forcemeat-balls can be added, if liked. 

To Stew a Breast of Veal. 

439. Cut it in pieces and put it into a pot with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a small piece of bacon, a little mace, and a few black pepper- 
corns, salt, and one or two onions, and as much water as will cover it 
Let it stew well over a slow fire. Boil some peas and lettuce by 
themselves, and, when the veal is stewed enough, strain the liquor 
from it, and put it into a stewpan with part of the liquor, the peas, 
lettuce, and a piece of butter, and let them stew again. Thicken with 
the yolks of two or three eggs and a little flour. 

Another Seceipt — Cut it in the middle, bone it, and \i.^ vcki^ ^ivsX ^^ 



134 ENGLISH GOOKEBY. 



the other, with half a pint of white wine and grayy made firom the 
hones sufficient to coyer it ; add mace, cloves, whole pepper, salt, and 
two anchovies; when sufficiently stewed, put some oysters in, and 
thicken with flour and butter, after which keep stirring it until it is 
taken off the fire. 

Fillet or Breast of Veal, to Stew White. 

440. Let the veal be two or three hours in milk, or clean cold 
water, lay it in a stewpan and cover with water, allowing for its boil- 
ing away. Add twenty white peppercorns, and a little mace ; before 
serving, add a glass of white wine, a little mushroom powder, lemon- 
pickle, or lemon juice, and a small piece of the peel. Put in as much 
cream as will make it quite white, and thicken it with the yolks of two 
eggs. If that is not sufficient, add a little butter and flour well mixed 
together. Serve with boiled forcemeat balls, and garnish with lemon ; 
a little good veal stock would be a great addition to this stew. 

Frioakdeau of Ybxl, 

441. Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches 
long, and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the rolling-pin ; take 
off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides, 
and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it in the 
•tewpan with pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot 
sliced, a fagot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a 
pint of good veal or mutton broth, and> four or five ounces of lean ham 
or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours ,* 
then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it 
quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it ; 
and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel sauce 
in a sauce-tureen. 

A Cheaper, but equally good Fricandeau of FeaZ.— With a sharp knife 
cut the lean part off a large neck from the best end, scooping it from 
the bones in lengths^ about that of the hand, and prepare it the same 
way as in the last receipt ; three or four bones only will be necessary, 
and they will make the gravy ; but if the prime part of the leg is cut 
off, it spoils the whole. 

Kagout Breast of Veal. 

442. Take a breast of veal, cut off the two ends, and fry the centre 
In butter tiH a ^ood brown; then put it into a stewpan with some 



TO SXEir A SXCCKLE OF TKAI» 139 



good gn,Yj and a fisw mudl liits erf* bsfeoa ; eorer doae, aad utew t9 
nearly done enonf^. Take it only and ttnim. tiie gravj tlirovj^* 
dere ; skim off all the fiit, and take as mndi of the hqmor as is 
quired, and thifkm it with floor and battel!; and iarovr vith 
pickle or juice, wafant and mnshxocxn ketchap^ or W< 
sauce. 

Another, — ^Breakthe liba of a breast of real in two plaeo^ laid it wix^ 
bacon, and roast till neailj done^ Season some ttroD^ bfoth with 
mace, nutmeg, salt and pepper, and anchoTj. Sczain it, then pnt the 
veal in a stewpan and corer with the broth ; UmI some loitaneat balls 
a little in salt and water, then add them to the stew wixh some sweet- 
breads cut and fried, the bottcms of artirhokra, tmffles and mctc^ 
(or, in place of the latter, dried chamiMgnons, which aze f ^nnd in 
our English pastures). Thicken the grarj, if pielierred, wixh flonr and 
butter, lay the slices of sweetbread with n^led bacon on the real, a&d 
fry some of the forcemeat in puff paste to Uj roond the dish — a Httie 
lemon Juice and white wine maj be added with ketchop. 

Habicoz OV YSAli. 

443. Take the best end of a small neck ; cot the bones shoil^ bat 
leaTe it whole ; put it into a stewpan, and just eorer with brown graiy 
When it is nearlj done, haxe readj a pint of boiled peas^ six eaeom- 
bers pared and sliced, and two cabbage-lettuces cot into qoaxtezs, all 
stewed in a little good broth; put them to the real, and let them 
simmer ten minutes. When the real is in the dish, poor the saaee 
and yegetables oyer it, and laj the lettuce with Cofcemeat balls 
around it. 

Another. — Take a portion of the breast of xeal, or, still better, the best 
end of a neck, in which case the bones must be a little shortened if re- 
quired. Brown in a DntchoTen, and then stew it in a good brown stock. 
When half done add some peas, Tegetable marrows^ lettuce, cucumbers, 
carrots, and turnips cut in squares. The xegetables must be pre- 
viously fried in butter and stewed in a weak broth, or fried and put to 
stew at first with the meat. Thicken the gnrj if required, and flaroor 
with pepper and salt 

To SxEW A Kkuckle ov Yeai.. 

444. Fry it with sliced onions and a little butter till it is well 
browned ; put to it some good broth if you have it, otherwise water, 
and stew till tender. Then add lettuce, onion, cucumber^ \^eaa^^«si&K:j^ 



136 ENGLISH C00K1SRT. 



and celery, preriotulj cut up and stewed. Season with pepper and 
salt, and serve. - ^ 

Stewed Knuckle of Veal, ob Veal a la Bourgeoise. 

445. Take a good-sized stewpan, put in a little butter, a few tor* 
nips, carrots, onions, spices, a little lean bacon, pepper, salt, and thyme, 
moisten with two spoon sfnl of broth, and let the whole stew for two 
hours on a yery slow fire ; cut the turnips and carrots in small shapes 
or squares. 

To Boll a Breast of Ybal. 

446. After removing the larger bones, beat the real well on all sides, 
to make it tender and pliable. Lay the underside uppennost, and 
cover it with yolk of egg, pounded lean of cooked ham, and chopped 
parsley and thyme (more of parsley than of thyme), seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and a little mace or nutmeg. Make a light batter 
of cream or milk and eggs, well stiffened with soaked bread-crumbs, 
which lay thickly on, and again strew with herbs and ham. Boll up the 
veal, and secure it tightly with a cloth and tapes. Stew till quite tender 
for full six hours. Press it for a day with a heavy weight, if to be 
eaten cold. If hot, serve with a rich gravy, made from the bones 
flavoured with lemon-juice and ketchup, and, if liked, a glass of white 
wine. In either case glaze it before sending to table. 

To Stew a Calf's Head. 

447. Boil the head, if convenient, the day before it is wanted, till 
the bones will come out easily. The following day brown it before the 
fire, then put it in a stewpan, with a quart of good and well-flavoured 
gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little onion ; let it simmer for an 
hour, take it out and add to the gravy a glass of white wine, and the juice 
of half a lemon with a little of the peel grated. Dish it up nicely; and 
garnish with brain cakes and egg balls, and a few slices of rolled 
bacon. When the bones are taken out, the head may be larded with 
bacon by way of variety. 

Por a comer dish half a head would be sufficient. The remains 
may be served a second day in slices as hashed calves' head, and after- 
trards laid while hot into a mould, with the garnish and gravy inter- 
mixed, and served cold at breakfast or luncheon. 
, Ox-cheek may be stewed in the same way. 



HASHKD CAUfs HEAIK 137 

To Boo. A Calf's Head. 

448. A calTs head is fint cat in two, down the middle, learlng the 
tongne whole. The brains are then taken onL Kext soak the head 
for an hour in cold water, to get out the blood which collects in the 
inside, and spoils the appearance. The head is either dressed with 
the skin on or off ; if the former, it is a mnch better dbh. Fat plentj 
of water in the pot, and boU Terf gently abont two honrs, if the skin 
is off, more or less according to size. With the skin on, it will take 
nearly another hour. The tongue will not take more than an hoar to 
boil, if put in bj itself, which is the best plan ; and it is serred with 
some of the brains on a separate dish. WhUe the head is boilings well 
wash the brains, and soak afterwards in salt and water. Then boil for 
fifteen minutes, putting them into cold water and reckoning from the 
time when the water begins to boil. About a dozen sage leaxes 
should be boiled separately, and chopped up finely. These, mixed 
with the brains, and a $liffkt flavour of onion (not more than a qoarter % 
of a small one), boiled with a little melted batter, make the sauce. 
Egg'^aace is sometimes used in addition. Ham, bacon, or tongue is 
generally eaten with this dish. 

Hashwd Calf's Hbad. 

449. Half boil a calTs head in two quarts of water, very gendy lay 
a cloth orer it to keep it a good colour, turn it OTcr when half done. 
When cold cut it in slices with the tongue, make a good stock of 
Teal with a little lemon thyme, winter saTory, a little parsley, pepper, 
salt, and mace ; thicken it with a little butter and flour, half a tea- 
cupful of white wine, and a little nutmeg. It is Tcry good if basted 
in its own liquor, wholly or in part, instead of gravy. Skin the 
brains and beat them up (without boiling) with an egg, a little flour, 
salt, and nutmeg. Fry them in cakes with forced-meat and egg balls, 
and rolled bacon, garnish with slices of lemon. 

450. Calf*s Hkad Hashed Wmrs. — ^Let the head be well washed, 
and then boil it in soft water. Take the meat from the bones and cut 
it into thin coUops, then take of the water it was boiled in enough to 
stew it till the meat is thoroughly hot. Work two ounces of butter 
well with some flour, and mix with it a little essence of anchovies, 
three blades of mace, a little nutmeg, with pepper and salt. Put this 
to the coUops, and mix it well together. Take the yolk of an egg well 
beaten, stir it up with half a pint of milk, or omit the e^ ^tA tsL^^^s^ 



138 ENGLISH COOKERY. 

and use lialf a pint of cream, add it to the hash. When done, squeeze 
in the juice of a lemon, and garnish with balls of forcemeat and egg 
balls. 

451. To Hash Calf's Head Brown. — ^From a head half boiled cut 
off the meat in slices, half &n inch thick, and two or three inches 
long. Brown some butter, flour, and sliced onions, and throw in the 
slices with some good gravj, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, 
skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. 
Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, at first; and ten minutes before 
serving throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon 
and knotted marjoram, cut as fine as possible. Just before serving add 
the squeeze of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of ketchup, and if liked 
a glass of white wine with brain cakes. Forcemeat balls and bits of 
bacon rolled round. 

To Makb Brain Cakes. 

452. Blanch the brains of a calf or sheep, and beat them up with 
yolk of egg, a spoonful of cream, some pepper, salt, a little butter and 
some chopped parsley. Lay them in your frying-pan in cakes of a 
nice size and fry a light brown. Drain, before serving them, on paper 
or a cloth. They may be used alone or as an accompaniment to calves' 
head hash, &c.; or for croquettes, the brains may be blanched and 
beaten up with a little parsley and sage, some bread crumbs, moistened 
with cream, salt and pepper to taste, and a beaten egg to bind them • 
form into round or oval balls, and fry a light brown. Serve in a 
napkin. 

To Roll a Calf's Head. 

453. When sufficiently tender by boiling, remove the bones, roll 
it, tie it tightly with a cloth and tape, or put it in a mould. Finish 
boiling, and serve it with a good white sauce. 

Or, if stewed brown the cloth must be omitted, and it must be 
stewed in a good gravy, and garnished as hashed or stewed calfs head. 

Or, Scald the skin of a calf's head, and take out the brains, boil it 
till the bones will come out easily. Then proceed as *^ to roll a breast 
of veal " (446). Skin and beat the brains with the egg and milk, to 
form the light batter, adding a few bread-crumbs, and serve it hot 
with a well seasoned brown gravy. It must be very neatly rolled. 

To Stew a Calf's Foot. 
^^4, A/ier tborottgWy cleaning, cut the foot into well-shaped pieoei^ 



I9i» 



and stew them with real or bee^ of the same weight ; should the meat aoft 
have hong some days it most be beatett. Pepper and salt the abore 
on each side, and laj it in a stew pan with cold water, stew till qvite 
tender, probabl j for three or four hours. Strain the graTj firom die 
meat, and, when perfectly eold, lemore ereiy paitide of fitt, add 
cayenne and lemon jnice ; if a brown grary is desired flaToar with 
some browning, walnnt ketchup, and (if approred) a little white wine ; 
but should Teal be used it will be better to substitute cucumber 
ketchup, thickened cream or milk, with a little lemon peeL The feet 
must be tiiorougfaly warmed up in the graTy, but not bculed. Garnish 
with crisp parsley, or lemon in slices. CalTcs* feet may be boiled till 
tender, and served with parsley and butter, and a little lemon pickle 
serred on the dish as a garnish. 

To Frt Calves' Febt. 

455. Bemove while warm the bones, two feet previously boiled till 
tender. When cold and firm cut them into pieces of a suitable sixe 
and shape. Strew them with pepper and salt, and dip them in ^g 
and crumbs; then frj them of a nice brown, or instead of the egg and 
crumbs cover them with a nice light batter like a small fritter, each 
one the size of a poached egg. Serve on a napkin, or garnish with 
pickles. 

Pried Calyes* Peet. 

456. Take four calves' feet ; boil till tender, take out the bones, and 
then fry the meat in butter. The bones and liquid make a nice stock. 

To Stew S w keibreads. 

457. Take two large round sweetbreads, and stew them as you 
would veal (see page 133) ; then make a rich gravy with truffles, 
morels, mushrooms, or artichoke-bottoms, and serve it round. 

458. Sweetbreads, Stewed White. — Carefully wash some sweet- 
breads, and stew them from half an hour to three-quarters in a white 
gravy ; to which add cream, flour, butter, mace, salt, and white pepper, 
and a little cucumber ketchup. 

459. Sweetbreads, Stewed Brown.— Stew as above in a brown 
gravy, after thoroughly scalding the sweetbreads. 

Another TFoy.— Lard some sweetbreads, and after parboiling, cover 
them with egg-crumbs mixed with a little chopped parsley and mar- 
joram, pepper and salt. Brown them in a Dutch oven, and stew them 
twenty minutes in a rich gravy, and flavonx mt>\ikft\A\L\i^, 



140 ENQLISH OOOEEfiT. 



SW^EETBREADS KOASTED. 

460. Parboil two large ones ; when cold, lard them with bacon, and 
roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom 
ketchup. 

Sweetbread Kagotjt. 

461. Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry them, then 
fry of a fine brown ; pour on them a good gravj seasoned with salt, 
pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms or mushroom ketchup ; strain, 
and thicken with butter and a little flour. Tou may add truffles, 
morels, and mushrooms. 

SWEBTBKBADS ErICASSEED. 

462. Cut up the remnants of a cooked sweetbread in small portions, 
and prepare a sauce or gravy as in stewing either white or brown ; lay 
the sweetbread in the pan with the gravy, and give one boil up. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon or sippets of bread. 

Mock Sweetbreads. 

463. Beat three-quarters of a pound of veal well in a mortar, then 
put to it a little suet or bacon, and the yolks of two eggs, with a few 
breadcrumbs. Season it with pepper, mace, and salt ; add a spoonful 
of cream. Make it in the shape of sweetbreads, and brown before the 
fire in a Dutch oven. Serve them up with a good gravy. 

Cutlets of Sweetbreads. 

464. Boil some sweetbreads for five-and-twenty minutes, and when 
cold, cut them in slices ; dip them in yolk of egg, and bread-crumbs, 
with pepper, mace, salt, parsley, and thyme, or lemon. Fry them a 
light brown, and place them separately on some slices of cooked 
tongue pared, and similarly seasoned and fried. Serve them with a 
little rich gravy at the bottom of the dish. The tongues may be 
omitted though an improvement. 

Veal Cdtlets. 

465. Cutlets are cut from a leg. of yeal, about a third of an inch 
tlijck, and of aucb a size as may be preferred. Fry them in plenty of 

/ioflard or dripping, on the French plan, ox \i t\)A'E»Ti\^v^S&\MMt.^VitfL 
tliem q aickly. Before putting ihem Vnlo tiife ^mi, >^«1 «t^ ^'^^ ^^i«^ 



BOAST FOUL 141 



eyenlj with white of egg well beaten, using an egg-bmsh, and then 
dipping them in finely-powdered stale bread-cmmb. Thej should be 
fried a delicate brown, and carefully drained from the fat. For graTj, 
fome other meat must be had recourse to, as there is too little from 
Teal in the frying-pan to make it ot The bone taken out of the fillet 
with part of the knuckle will boil down and make good stock, brown- 
ing it in the usual way (see Gravies), and flaTouring with a little 
mm^room ketchup and Worcestershire sauce; adding also a sprig 
of lemon thyme and a blade of mace. Some fresh parsley should be 
fried quite crisp after the cutlets are done, and laid on the top ; and it 
if usual to fry with them some thin slices of ham or bacon rolled, which 
are put round the dish, the gravy being poured into it, but not over 
the cutlets. 

Sbctioh 6. — ^POBK. 

466. "For choice of pork see Economical Housekeeper, P&gc ^* 
467. — For general directions to roast, boil, &c. see page 32 et seq. 



To Boast Fork. 

468. Fork, before being roasted, when the joint has the skin on, 
must be scored with a knife. This is sometimes done by the butcher, 
but if not, the cook must be careful not to neglect it, as it is quite im- 
possible to cut slices throngh the skin after it is roasted. They should 
always be made through the skin only, and in such directions and at 
such distances apart as will correspond with the slices in carving the 
joint. Fork requires to be put at a distance from a brisk and strong 
fire, and should be thoroughly done, but not scorched. It must be 
well basted, and when there is no skin, as in what is called " pig-meat," 
that is, the meat from large bacon-hogs, a strong solution of salt in 
water should be used at first to baste it. When there is outside skin, 
a little dripping or lard must be put in the pan to begin with. Leg 
of pork is generally stuffed with sage and onions, boiled and chopped 
fine, and if these are mixed with an equal quantity of boiled potatoes 
the flavour will be improved, with less danger of unpleasant remi- 
niscences. The stuffing is forced into a slit cut in the large end, near 
the bone* Gravy is made from the dripping-pan (see par. 75) ; it is 
usual to serve with apple sauce (which see). The Ivsv^ t%,c^\^^SA\^'t. 
Ae leg' falljr half an hour more than the usuaX <\)3L».x\.«t ^l ^xlVqnsji '^^'^ 
poand; for other joints that allowance wV\l BTvffiL^ift* 



142 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



SUCKIKQ-Pia. 

469. Sucking-pig may be either roasted or baked. If roasted, it 
must be put down at a distance from the fire, and should be basted 
with oil, dripping, or lard. The pig is alwajs staffed with some kind 
of staffing containing sage. A good Receipt for which is to take a 
quarter of a pound of crumbs of bread, one onion, a small handful 
of sage, a raw egg, and a small piece of batter ; these shoald be well 
mixed together with a little pepper and salt. Then fill the belly 
of the pig, and sew up with a common needle and thread. Another 
plan is to cut a round of bread thick, as for toast, brown it Teiy lightly, 
and butter it, then soak it in some water in which a handful of sage 
and an onion have been boiled, cut it into long pieces, and lay it in 
the belly, with alternate layers of the boiled sage leayes, but no onion, 
after which it is to be closed as above. A pig about a month old will 
take from an hour and three quarters to two hours ; and if two weeks 
older, another hour. After taking it from the spit cut the head off, 
and leave the body in the dripping-pan. Then divide the head 
longitudinally, and take out the brains for sauce ; after which, return 
it to the dripping-pan. When the sauce is made, divide the body 
down the middle, and lay the two halves back to back, with half the 
head at each end. The sauce is made by chopping the brains up yery 
finely with'boiled sage, and mixing with some good plain stock, or the 
gravy made from the dripping-pan. Some made gravy should also be 
served with it. 

To Boil Fork, Hams, akd Bacon. 

470. Pickled pork is boiled like beef. If very salt, it should b^ 
soaked three or four hours before boiling. The time required is nearly 
double that for beef, or about twenty-five minutes per pound, very 
slow boiling. The vegetables eaten with it are the same as for beef, 
but pease-pudding is almost constantly taken with pork. Great care 
should be exercised that pork is sufficiently boiled, as, when under- 
done, it is neither wholesome nor well flavoured. The skin is left on. 

471. Ham and Bacon, generally, require soaking, the former, from 
eighteen to twenty-four hours, and the latter for twelve. After soak- 
ing, the dirty and rough parts should be scraped off, and then the ham 
or bacon may be boiled in the way detailed at page 47, allowing 
twenty-five minutes for each pound, and boiling very slowly. When 

taken up, the skin is peeled off, and the fat is covered with grated 
toast. The knuckle of a ham is genexaXly ^«x^^^ V\^ ^ t^Vl oC 
paper, Ainged^ 



LEO OF FOBK A LA BOISSEAU. J43 



To Boil Pig's Pbttitobs. 

472. Boil them, the liyer, and the heart, in a small quantity of 
water, very gently ; then icnt the meat fine and simmer it with a little 
of the water, and the feet split ; thicken with a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper ; give it a boil 
up, pour it oyer a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. 

To Frepabb Fiq's Chbbk fob Boiling. 

473. Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, take out the 
eyes and the brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain 
twenty-four hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre ; let it lie 
ei^t or ten days if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, but 
less if to be dressed voUh peas ; and it must be washed first, and then 
simmered till all is tender. 

ToFbyPobk. 

474. Pork chops may be dressed like mutton, being either fried or 
broiled in the usual way, but they are best fried in the French fashion, 
when, however, they require a made-gravy. "When this is not at hand 
keep back the last spoonful of the lard, and use this as described at 382, 
adding a chopped onion and a tea-spoonful of mustard to the flour, 
and a- table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce or pickle to the water. 

To Dbess Fig's Fry. 

475. Boil the lights first, then chop them up, and put them to stew 
with a little broth or gravy, seasoning them with pepper and salt. 
Thicken with gravy ; and if not brown, add a little of the gravy from 
the frying-pan, which, when the liver, &c., have been /Hed^ is made by 
adding some flour and water to the contents of the frying-pan. Fry 
the liver as for steaks or chops (par. 474), then place it round the dish, 
with the minced lights in the centre. The heart should be stuffed and 
roasted, to form a separate dish. 

V 

Leg of Fobk a la Boisseau. 

476. A leg of pork for this purpose should be in salt about four 
days. Put it in boiling water, take it up and skin it, spit it and put it 
to the fire to roast, it will take two hours ; half an hour before It v^ 
taken up, shake on plenty of bread-crumbs Tm\X\.\\.\oOt& ^Ts«Rk\fwr«^ 
colour, take it up and put under it a\iU\^ E«i\jji bc^"^ otcissa ^^"^V^ 



1 44 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



veiy fine and boiled in good thick brown gravj. Apple sauce should 
be eaten with it. 

Sjbct. 7. — Vbkisoh. 

477. For choice of yenison see Economical Housekeeper, page 36. 

478. For general directi6ns for roasting, boiling, Ac^ see the 
chapters under these headings. 

To Boast Ybnisok. 

479. Venison takes about the same time as mutton (par. 391), and 
requires still greater care in papering or in enveloping in paste (par. 
78), which latter plan is that usually adopted. It is necessary to 
proceed as follows. If the venison is kept for any length of time as 
most people prefer it, the joint should be washed in warm water, but 
not soaked. If very high, brush over the worst parts a little distilled 
vinegar, and then wash well off. Dry carefully, and at once put 
down to the fire as soon as the fat is properly protected. The joint 
should be constantly basted till done, and should be served with good 
gravy, and sweet sauce, or currant jelly. 

To Stbw Vbnison. 

480. Let the meat hang till fit to be dressed: then take out the 
bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, mix with some slices of mutton 
fat that has lain a few hours in a little port wine, sprinkle a little 
pepper and allspice over it in a fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie 
it ; set it in a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef 
gravy, not strong, half a pint of port wine, and some pepper and 
allspice ; simmer it close-covered, as slowly as you can for three or 
four hours ; when quite tender take off the tape, set the meat in a 
dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant-jelly sauce. 
This is the best way to dress these joints, unless very fat, and then 
they should be roasted. The bone should be stewed with them. 

Tenison Steaks. 

481. The neck chops are those used, and the gridiron should be 
placed over a charcoal, or bright coals will do in an ordinary kitchen 
range. 



SaCOKED SAI78AGES OB POLOHIESL liS. 

CHAP. XL— SAUSAGES, BLACK FUDDDTGS, fte. 

Sbct. 1. — Saubaoss. 

482. These saYoniy compounds are made with Tarions materials^ 
cSiopped and mixed together either bj the hand or with the aid of a 
oommon chopper and board, or with a sansage-making machine, 
which last acts remarkablj well, bat is not required often enough 
in priyate houses to warrant its purchase. They are afterwards put 
Into properly-cleaned lengths of the entrails of the ox, sheep, calf, or 
pig, and tied at short interrals with common fine string. In cleaning 
the entrails they are turned inside out, stretched on a smooth stick, 
and well scraped and washed in several waters. 

Fork Sausages. 

483. Chop fivt and lean of pork together; season it with sage^ 
pepper, and salt, and add two or three berries of allspice ; kalf-JiB 
hogs' entrails that have been soaked and made extremely dean ; or 
the meat may be kept in a very small pan closely corered, and rolled 
and dusted with a very little flour before it is ftied ; serre on mashed 
potatoes put in a form, plain, or browned with the salamandfar or 
before the fire ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are 
dressed or they wUl burst, unless they are very carefully fried. 

Beef Ajn> Yeal Sausaoes. 

484. These are each made in the same way as for pork (483), but 
there is generally a larger proportion of spice ; the herbs added are 
marjoram, thyme, and parsley instead of sage. 

Sausages are dressed either by frying, broiling^ or toasting, and are 
generally served on toast. (See Frying, Broiling, and Toasting.) 

Laboe Smoked Sausages ob Polo^es. 

485. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black pep- 
per, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat ; the sixth 
day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot or garlic, as fine 
as possible ; have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and 
soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing ; tic up the ends, and 
hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two 
of old muslin ; it must be high-dried. Some eat it without bovVv^^^ 
but others like it hoUed first. The skin ihonV^ \>^ \a^^ m ^\^<^\^\^ 

places, so as to make each link about eight ox imi^ \iiOE^<^ Vy(^^ 



146 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



OxFOKD Sausages. 

486. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared 
of skin and sinews ; add three quarters of a pound of beef-suet ; mince 
and mix them ; steep the crumb of a penny-loaf in water, and mix it 
with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper, and salt. 

Sect. 2. — ^Black Puddings, and White Puddings. 

To Make Black Puddings. 

. 487. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of 
it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak one night ; and 
soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of 
new milk made hot. In the meantime prepare the entrails by washing, 
turning, and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water 
several times. Chop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, a good 
quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, 
ginger, and nutmeg ; mix these with three pounds of beef-suet and 
six eggs well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c., 
all up with the seasoning ; when well mixed, have ready some hog's 
fat cut into' large bits, and as you fill the skins put it in at proper 
distances. Tie in links, only half filled, and boil in a large kettle, 
pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, 
lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them tip in the 
kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water ; wipe, 
and put them into a Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, put 
the stuffing into basins, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and 
slice and fry it when to be used. 

Anothtr Receipt — Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much 
boiling hot milk as will swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. 
Chop a good quantity of penny-royal, some savoury and thyme ; then 
add salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with 
a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the 
skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of 
the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. 
Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and 
well mixed is a great improvement. 

White Hog's Puddings. 
4S8. When the skins have "been Boatte^ axi^ t\^wv«,d as before 
directed, rinse and soak them all Big^it Va io&^-^«x^x^ wA y*^'^^"^ 



BOAST TUBEETS, OUINIfiA FOWL, AND GHICKEN& 147 

them the following filliog : — ^Mix half a pound of blanched almonds 
cat into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds 
of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloyes, 
mace, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of 
two eggs, a little orange-flower water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and 
some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know 
whether properly flayoured, warm a little in a pannikin. In boiling, 
much care must be taken to prevent the puddings from bursting. 
Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk and 
water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. 

Sect. 3. — Saveloys. 

489. These are made of salt pork, of which the fat and lean are 
mixed together and chopped with a fourth part of bread, a little 
pepper and allspice, and a rather liberal use of sage leaves. They are 
put in skins as for pork sausages, and boiled slowly for half an hour, 
then put by and eaten cold. 



CHAP. XIL— THE COOKING OF POULTRY. 

490. The best mode of purchasing and the choice of poultry are 
alluded to in the Economical Housekeeper, 

To Boast Poultry. 

491. The general directions for roasting are given under the chapter 
on that head at page 35, and to truss poultry for roasting, see pages 
37, 38, and for boiling, see page 49. 

To Roast Turkeys, Guinea Fowl, and Chickens. 

492. Those kinds of poultry which have white meat all require the 
same management in roasting. They are first trussed according to the 
mode described at page 35, et seq., and then either put in a cra^dle-spit, 
or on a small common spit, or suspended from a bottle-jack. All of 
these require lard, ' dripping, or butter, to baste them with, the last 
being the best, but either answering the purpose well enough, pro- 
vided they are used almost constantly. They should be well floured 
at first, and kept at a distance from the fire for about \i^i ^3ck^ >C\\ss&^ 
after which thejr may be put nearer, and vf\verL \\v^ ^i^vvcv ^sjvw tv^^^ 

ia little bladders they are generally don^ wioxv:^* ^xxx^lk^V *^' 



148 ENGLI&QS COOKERY. 

sometimes large fowls, ha^ve their necks stuffed with forcemeat (which 
see), and require a made-gravy for them, which can generally he 
obtained from odds and ends, including their heads, necks, and legs 
cut off. Bread sauce and sometimes sausages are served in addi- 
tion, and the invariable concomitants, ham or tongue, must not 
be forgotten. Time required, as near as may be, one quarter of an 
hour per poimd. 

To Boil Chickens ob Tubket. 

493. Wrap the chickens in a cloth and throw them into boiling 
water. BoU gently for about three quarters of an hour, (a turkey 
would require an hour and three quarters.) They eat much better if 
a slice of fat bacon is skewered on the breast of each fowl, or of a 
turkey. Serve with celery, parsley, mushroom, or oyst^ sauce, or 
simple white sauce, and garnish with lemon. 

Fowl Dressed with Mushroom Sattob. 

494. Put the fowl in a stew-pan with a bit of bacon under and over, 
and a spoonful or two of good gravy. Cover it closely with a lid, and 
put it in rather a slow oven, and let it stew gently for an hour and a 
half, turning it often ; pour the gravy from it, take off the fat, and put 
some pickled mushrooms with some of the vinegar to it, and a little 
more good gravy if you require it; make it quite hot, and pour it over. 

Chicken and Tomatob. 

495. Cut up a young fowl. Put in a stew-pan one ounce of butter, 
a tea-spoonfiQ of flour, and an onion chopped small. Brown them over 
the fire ; and the pieces of chicken, with eight or ten tomatoes, and a salt- 
spoon of salt. Cover the pan and stew till the tomatoes are dissolved, 
and the fowl thoroughly done. If it is a very young chicken, do not 
put it in at first, as half an hour will do it. Cold fowl will answer the 
purpose. 

To Stew a Tdekey ob Powl. 

496. Pick the fowl very clean, put it into a saucepan, with cabbage, 
turnips, celery, and onions, all cut very small ; add salt and pepper, 
with a bunch of sweet-herbs, then just cover with water, and let it stew 
as slowly as possible till quite tender. This mode of cooking is chiefly 
adapted for an old fowL 



TO STBW FOWL WITH BICE. 149 

Chickens Stewed whole. 

497. Fill the insides of a coaple of fowls with large oysters and 
mushrooms, and fasten a tape round the body to keep them in. Pat 
them in a tin kettle with a cover ; set them in a large saucepan, with 
boiling water, which must not reach quite to the top of the kettle ; 
keep it boiling till the fowls are well done, which they should be an 
hour after they begin to simmer; take off the lid occasionally to 
remove the scum, but cover again directly ; as the water in the kettle 
boils away, replenish it with boiling water ; take from them all the 
gravy, and put it into a small saucepan, covering the kettle close to 
keep the fowls warm, meantime. Thicken the gravy with butter and 
flour, and add two table-spoonfuls of chopped oysters or mushrooms, 
the yolks of three eggs boiled hard and minced fine, some seasoning, 
and a little cream. Boil five minutes, and dish the fowls. 

Chicken Cutlets. 

498. Cut, in as large pieces as possible, the fleshy parts of a couple 
of chickens, either cooked or uncooked. Season well with a mixture 
of pepper, mace, cayenne, and salt, then cover them with egg and 
bread-crumbs, and fry them a light brown. They should be served in 
a thickened and well-seasoned gravy, made from the bones, with the 
heads and legs of the chickens. 

A Stewed Howtowdib with Deappit Eoos. (^Meg Dods.) 

499. Prepare and stuff with forcemeat a young, plump fowl. Put 
it into tilling concave-bottomed small pot, with a close-fitting lid, with 
button-onions, spices, and at least a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Add herbs if approved. When the fowl has hardened and been 
turned, add half a pint, or rather more, of boiling water, or broth. Fit 
CD the lid very close, and set the pot over embers. An hour will do 
a small fowl, and so in proportion. Have a little seasoned gravy, in 
which parboil the liver. 

To Stew Fowl with Hicb. 

500. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton broth, well- 
skimmed, and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About 
half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pound of rice, well 
washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the 
broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Kfte.^ \^<^ Vs^W^x^ 



150 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



lay it in the middle of the dish, and the rice around it, without thfi! 
broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as sach ; but the less liqnof 
the fowl is done with the better. Grayj, white sauce, or parslej and 
butter, for sauce. Or, boil a pint of rice, and while warm, mix with it 
one ounce of fresh butter. Beat four eggs, and mix with it gradually ; 
line a deep dish with the rice, and place on it a parboiled fowl cut in 
pieces, with a little of the liquor seasoned. Add butter, flour, and a 
little cream. Cover with the rice, set it in the oven and bake brown. 
Ham or tongue is an improvement. 

Fowl with Spinach. 

501. Poach nicely in the gravy, five or six small eggs. Dress them 
on flattened balls of spinach round the dish, and serve the fowl in the 
centre, rubbing down the liver to thicken the gravy and liquor in 
which the fowl has been stewed, which pour over it for sauce, skim- 
ming it nicely, and serving all hot. Mushrooms, oysters, and force- 
meat balls may be put to the sauce. The spinach may be, and often is, 
replaced by greens or turnip-tops. 

To Roast Geese and Ducks. 

502. Geese and ducks are trussed and spitted as shewn at page 38, 
after which they are put down at a distance from a good fire ; previ- 
ously, however, stuffing their whole bodies with sage and onions, 
boiled, chopped fine, and then mixed with an equal quantity of 
potatoes. They require plenty of dredging and basting with lard or 
dripping, and a made-gravy must be served with them ; also apple 
sauce (which see). Time required, strictly according to the regular 
rule. 

To Stew a Duck or Goose. 

503. Half-roast a duck or goose : put it into a stew-pan with a pint 
of beef gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper and 
salt, and a small bit of onion, shred as fine as possible. Simmer a 
quarter of an hour, and skim clean ; then add near a quart of green 
peas. Cover close and simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a 
piece of butter and a little flour, and give it one boil ; then serve in 
one dish. 

To Stew a Ducts, (an Entrfe^. 
^04, Pat an onion scalded, a few cViop^ed aa^^\«i«i.'^<»^ wi^^wx^^ Y^^- 



TO ROAST WILD-FOWL. 151 



per, inside the dack, then half cook it in the Dutch or common oven. 
Dredge it with flour, pepper, and salt, aud cover it with water in a 
stewpan, in which put some sprigs of mint and parsley. When nearly 
done, strain off the gravy, and return it to the pan, adding either a 
glass of port wine, or^ a good pint of young peas, and a little sugar, and 
stew again. 

A Rich Stew of Duck (^for an Entree), 

505. Cut a fine young duck into joints, and lay it in a large shallow 
tin pan. Pour over it a pint of strong beef broth or gravy. Scum it 
when it begins to boil. Season weU with cayenne, sage, and lemon- 
peel, and simmer from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Thicken 
the gravy with a table-spoonful of flour, and flavour it with a glass of 
port-wine, and some lemon-juice. Serve it hot. 

To Stew Giblets. 

506. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them for 
several hours with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done ; season them with salt and 
pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them 
one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in a tea- 
spoonful of the flour. 

Fricassee of Ducks. 

507. Half roast and cut up a couple of ducks, put them in a stewpan 
and season. Cover them with a mixture of onion, sage, and sweet 
marjoram chopped, tomatoes scalded, peeled, and quartered; ket- 
chup, one ounce of butter rolled in bread-crumbs, one glass of port- wine, 
and a little powdered mace. Add a. little water to keep from burning, 
cover closely, and stew till done thoroughly. Venison, lamb, pigeons, 
hares, and rabbits, may be stewed in this way. 

To Boast Wild-fowl. 

508. Wild-duck, widgeon, and teal are all roasted like common 
ducks, but without stuffing^ and with rather a less allowance of time, 
though it is not now the fashion to send them to table almost raw, as. 
was formerly the case. Before carving, the knife is drawn along the 
breast in the situation of the slices; and upon these a lemon. \% 
squeezed^ and A little cayenne pepper 8pTiTi\A^^ TVxfc^ «X^x^q^^^ 

joade'grarjr, with port- wine (^whicli see). 



152 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



To Stew a Wild Duck. 

509. Chop some sage and sweet-heibs very fine, into some good 
stock, add half a glass of port-wine, some lemon-juice, pepper and 
salt, and stew the herbs for more than ten minutes ; meantime, the 
duck should be roasting in a Dutch oven, and when rather more than 
half-roasted, should be added, with the gravy from it, to the stew ; 
the gravy should be allowed to cool a little, that the fat may be care- 
fully excluded ; and the whole simmered gently till done. Or, the 
duck may be cut up in joints when put into the stew. In any case, 
care must be taken that the gravy shall well moisten both the exterior 
and interior of the duck. 

KoAST Habe. 

510. Hare should not be roasted unless moderately young, and well 
kept, or it will be tough and devoid of flavour. The hare should be 
paunched as soon as possible, and its inside kept dry by wiping it, at 
the same time rubbing it with a little pepper-dust. Most cooks, after 
skinning the hare, soak it for two or three hours to get the blood out 
from the shoulders ; but this is a great mistake, for it does not effect 
this object until it has completely robbed the muscles of the back and 
legs of their juice and flavour. The proper plan is to carry a knife 
between the joints of the shoulders and the breast, as if about to divide 
them, and then, after wrapping up the whole of the rest of the body 
in a thick cloth, pump water into these slits for ten minutes; or, 
better still, turn a cock of water upon them, to wash the blood from 
the insides of the shoulders where it lodges, without touching the back 
and loins. Next fill the body with stuffing (par. 334), and truss 
according to the directions given at page 38. Proceed to roast it 
before a quick fire, not too fierce, and baste it perpetually for the first 
half-hour with hot milk; afterwards use dripping, and towards the 
last give it plenty of flour with the dredger, alternately basting with 
great care, and dredging, until a fine frothy coat is raised, in which the 
art of a good cook is shown. The time required is about an hour and 
a quarter to an hour and a half, according to size. Made-gravy is 
necessary, and currant-jelly. 

To Stew a IIabb. 
511, Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut \l\tilo *^o\xk.\&, «ime of which 
03aj^ if too large be divided. Brown them sW^XiXVj *m tV^ l>u\^ w^ss^ 



TO BOIL RABBITg. 153 



or stewpan, basting them well with batter, and adding a little lean ham, 
cat in thin slices ; stew in a fall pint of gravj, and while stewing season 
with mace, salt, cayenne, and lemon-peel ; and before serving, thicken 
the gravy with flour and batter, or arrowroot, and add two table-spoon- 
^s of ketchap, or one with some Heading or Worcestershire sauce^ 
and the juice of half a lemon. If wished rich add half a teacup of 
port-wine, and serve garnished with forcemeat balls browned and sim- 
mered in the stew. Currant jelly should be handed round with the 
above. 

Or, Skin the hare, and cut it in small pieces, but do not wash it ; stew 
it in butter till the blood is set, then put to it some gravy, with a bunch 
of sweet-herbs, two onions, a few cloves, a little mace, and black 
pepper ; when it is stewed enough, strain off the butter, and put to it 
two or three spoonfuls of port-wine, and a little lemon juice ; then 
thicken it with butter and flour, and season with salt to the taste. 
Oysters, mushrooms, and eggs boiled hard, with a little anchovy, are 
an agreeable addition. 

To Jua A Habe. 

512. Skin the hare and clean it, cut it up scientifically, and put it in 
a pan with a bouquet of sweet-herbs and parsley, also an onion 
adorned with cloves, a blade of mace, a glass of port-wine, and rather 
more water than will cover it. Put it on the stove and let it stew 
very gently till the meat is done, then take it off and thicken the gravy ; 
when sufiiciently boiled pass it through a sieve, then add a little 
ketchup soy, and cayenne to the taste, and pour it over the hare. 
Take care to have it dished up hot ; and some add to it a few forcemeat 
balls. 

To Roast Rabbits. 

613. Rabbits are roasted exactly like hare, but, being smaller, they 
require less time. They also ought not to be soaked in water, but 
washed as directed for hare. From thirty to forty minutes will roast 
any wild rabbit. Large tame rabbits will take as long as a hare. 

To Boil Rabbits. 
514. For a couple of rabbits make a stuffing with a little grated 
bread, the yolks of three eggs boiled hard and pounded, and one un- 
boiled joJk; add a little butter, and season ml\i"y«v^^'^ ^-"^^ ^'aNx.\ ^^^^^ 
ibe rabbits well with this, and whea done aafiivxae \si^'^\i^\s^^'i^^^"l 



i5i ENGLISH COOKERY. 

mixing a little stuffing taken from the rabbits, in melted bntter, or the^ 
may be covered with onion sauce, or simple white sauce. 

Stewed Rabbits. 

515. Wash a couple of rabbits well in warm water, cut them up in 
joints, and put them into a saucepan with enough of water, or broth if 
you have it, to cover them. Put in a bunch of parsley and thyme, and 
a fine large onion peeled. Stew gently for three hours, with a little 
mace, and pepper and salt. When ready to dish up put the meat into 
your tureen, and thicken the broth with flour and milk, before pouring 
it over the meat. The bunch of herbs should be taken out, but any 
particles which have broken off may be left in. 

French Stew op Rabbits (Amebican.) 

516. Having cut up the rabbits, lay the pieces in cold water to soak 
oat the blood, then wash in another water ; season, put them in a jan 
adding chopped celery, sweet maijoram, and tarragon leaves ; mix in a 
little ham or tongue, and add a teacup of water and two glasses of 
sherry. Cover the jar closely, set it over the fire in a kettle of cold 
water, and let it stew slowly two hours ; thicken with butter and flour. 
Hare and venison may be stewed in the same way. You may substi- 
tute rich cream for the wine. 

To Fricassee Rabbits. 

517. White. — ^Blanch your rabbits by putting them into boiling water 
and boiling them for six or seven minutes; when cold cut them up as 
for eating, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint of veal or other 
light-coloured stock ; flavour with cucumber, ketchup, or lemon pickle. 

518. Brown. — Cut your rabbits into joints, fry them of a light 
brown in butter, and then put them in a stewpan with a pint of 
water, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the same of browning, 
a tea-spoonful of lemon juice or pickle, a little essence of anchovy, a 
little lemon peel, and cayenne and salt to taste. Thicken and strain 
the gravy, and pour it over the rabbits before serving. 

To Fry Rabbits. 

519. First wash, soak, and prepare the rabbit for cooking, and then 
boi'I It (in boiling water) for six or seven minutes ; drain it, and when 

nearly cold take off the legs and shoxxV^eta, wi^ cvsX ^^ \iw?K. vato 
Joints. Dip each piece into yolk, of ^%% ^^^ crasiJo*, ^^ ^»x\^^ 



PIGEONS, THEUSHES, LABKS, OETOLANS. 155 



having been seasoned with pepper and salt, and (if approved) a little 
finely chopped parsley and lemon peel. Boil the liver, and when 
cold rub it down fine, and add it to. some thickened and well-seasoned 
gravy, to which also put a little cream, lemon juice, and ketchup. 
Serve the rabbit with the gravy under it, taking care it is sent to 
table hot. 

If wanted plain, omit the egg and crumbs, and mf£ke a gravy by 
adding water to the contents of the fryingpan, when the meat has been 
taken out ; adding flour and butter to thicken it, and any flavouring 
which may be approved. 

To Roast Winged Game. 

520. These are dressed in the following modes : winged game, con- 
sisting of pheasants, black-cock, grouse, and partridges, are all dressed 
and served alike, the time only varying. Pheasants and black-cock 
will take from thirty to fifty minutes, according to size, at a brisk, but 
not strong fire. Grouse and partridges from twenty-five to thirty 
minutes. They require constant basting, but no dredging, as they 
ought not to be more browned than necessary, according to present 
fashion. Pheasants and black-cock are served with bread sauce and 
made-gravy only, but partridge and grouse usually have fried bread- 
crumbs also. 

To Bboil Partridge. 

521. Split the partridge and wipe, but do not wash it, and broil it 
to a pale brown. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, rub a little butter over 
it as soon as it is taken from the fire. Make a sauce of meat stock, 
or water thickened with flour and butter, and flavoured with salt, 
pepper, ketchup, and a squeeze of lemon. If preferred, the bird may 
be dipped more than once into clarified butter and bread-crumbs 
before being broiled. • 

Pigeons, Thrushes, Larks, Ortolans, 

522. And other small birds, are trussed and dressed IJke partridges, 
and served with the same crumbs, sauce, and gravy. They are some- 
times dipped in egg and crumbs before roasting. From ten to fifteen 
minutes will roast any of them, except the ^i^eou, -^VilVOcl ^^ \ai«w^ 
/i-om eighteen to twenty minutes. All s\iov\\^ \i^ ^OWi^aJv^^ "^^^^ 

butter or dripping. 



I 



156 SNQLISH COOKERY. 



FiQEONS TO Boil. 

523. Should be trussed in the same manner as boiled fowls, put into 
boiling water, and after bciling for a quarter of an hour, should be 
served with parsley and butter, some of which should be poured over 
them. 

To Stew Pigeons. 

524. Take six pigeons, cut the flesh from one, and with the livers 
from all and a good slice of fat bacon, beat all together well in a 
mortar. Then take a few sweet-herbs and a little shalot and mix 
with the above to stuff the pigeons. Cut off their legs and pinions; 
stew the bones and trimmings to make gravj (and add a little mutton 
if required;) then put the pigeons into the gravy, when cleared of all 
bones and meat, with their breasts downwards, turning them carefrilly 
till they are done. Add a little port-wine, thickened with flour and 
butter, and put in a little walnut pickle. 

Wood Pigeons. 

525. Are generally dressed like tame pigeons, but if dressed like 
wild duck they are far superior in flavour. 

Woodcock and Snipe. 

526. Are dressed with the whole inside left in. They should not be 
spitted on any account, but suspended, legs downwards, over a toast 
of bread, which is eaten as a great relish. Twenty or thirty minutes 
will roast a " cock " and fifteen a snipe. Serve with gravy and 
bread sauce. 



CHAP. Xni.-'WARMED-UP MEATS AND MADE-UP DISHES OR 

ENTREES. 

Sect. 1 — ^General Kemasks. 

527. This chapter contains the^ receipts for warming up cold meats in 
the shape of hashes, minced-meats, &c., by which they are rendered 
much more palatable to most people, and not much more expensive. 
Ko one who has tried the experiment can contend that they are as 
economical as the cold meat would be, if eaten in its plain unadorned 
state, but as few people like cold beef ox coVd TCkuXXcra. lot \Jax^fc qt foui 
oonsecative days, it ia well to be able to -vaiy t\i^\3!Q3L Oit W^ ^n^-olWSxW 



MINCED BEEF OR MUTTON. 157 

<lone at a trifliDg increase in the weekly bills. The very circnmstance, 
that warmed-up dishes are more generally liked than cold meats, 
proves that more will be eaten, and, consequently, that they are more 
costly, for the difference in consumption is a main item affecting all 
systems of housekeeping. To the rigid economist, therefore, I can- 
not adrise these improved editions of cold meats, but to those who 
can afford the slight difference in the cost, they are unobjectionable, 
especially as they may be made even more wholesome than the 
plain cold meat, which, moreover, few will eat without the addition 
of indigestible cold pickles, or a large proportion of salad. Besides 
these warmed-up dishes, some few side-dishes, entries, &c., are given, 
which are serviceable for more than ordinary occasions, or for those 
who habitually indulge in such luxurious fare. 

Sect. 2. — ^Utensils. 

628. The Utensils required are chiefly the various sized stewpans ; 
hut for browning over certain dishes a salamander is almost imper- 
atively necessary. This is along iron in the form shown at^^. 136, 
and when heated in the fire and held over a dish, already at a boiling 
heat,, it browns the surface, and makes it much more pleasing to 
the eye. 

529. The Bain-mabie is merely a water-bath (see^y. 135), cnpp.ble 
of holding several stewpans or small saucepans. It is cliicily i-.scd 
for making such dishes as will be injured by a high rate of boiling, 
and also for keeping them warm without injury. 

530. Many Entries are now sent to table heated with a spirit-lamp 
under them, and certainly it is the only way of ensuring a proper 
temperature. Silver and plated dishes are made and sold expressl^F 
for the purpose^ and therefore it is not necessary to describe them 
here, especially as their construction is exceedingly simple. 

Sect. 3. — ^Dbessed Meats and Poultry Warmed up. 

Minced Beef or Mutton. 

631. Make a gravy according to par. 282; thicken it with flour 
or arrowroot, which is still better), then add to it the minced-up 
beef and warm it. In warming up any meats in this way, they 
should be done in a stewpan on a hot-plate, or in a water-bath, 
commonly called a hain-marie^ as it is owing to ioi/ing Vv«Ls\\'^'«k <jkx \s^>xsRRak 
that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or Tcveal ^Tt%^^^ «*. ^^^<2»w^ Sxka.^ 
should be only gently simmered, and tlial ioi a. €tiQ\\. \j«si<ii ^-^l^^^ ^ 



1 58 ENGLISH COOKERY. 

to be just warmed through. After minclDg the beef with some of the 
fat, season it and add boiled carrots, with a little onion or shalot 
chopped fine. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and 
pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with 
it ; if shalot vinegar is used as a seasoning, there will be no need oi 
the onion or the raw shalot. 

Minced Mutton or Beef BaowNEb. 

532. Cut some lean meat from a roast leg of mutton, chop it fine, 
season it with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a little onion ; 
mix altogether with a quarter of a pound of grated bread, moisten 
with a table-spoonful of vinegar and a cup of good gravy; when put 
into the dish lay an ounce of butter in small bits on the top, grate 
bread over it, and add a little more butter ; brown before the fire. 

To Hash Beef or Mutton. 

533. Do it the same as in the last receipt, except that the meat 
is to be in slices, and add a spoonful of walnut liquor or ketchup. 

Another Way, — Cut the meat into small thin slices, put two tabic - 
spoonfuls of flour into a dish, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a salt- 
spoonful of pepper ; mix them together, and rub the slices of meat 
with it; place in a large and shallow stewpan a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut (and if liked, three small onions cut in small 
pieces); put it on the fire till the onion is browned, then add the 
meat, which warm on one side, and turn over. When warmed 
through, pour over it a pint of hot water, and two pickled gherkins 
cut in slices, and a table-spoonful of the vinegar from the pickle, also 
a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup \ boil up and serve with sippets of 
toasted bread. 

Another Way. — Cut thin slices of mutton or beef, and put into half 
a pint of broth, let it simmer a quarter of an hour and skim all the fat 
from it ; then season it with pepper, salt, and mushroom ketchup, with 
a squeeze of lemon or a spoonful of vinegar; after which thicken 
with flour and butter. The hash eats less greasy in this way, as the 
flour absorbs the fat when added at first. 

Another Way, — Slice the mutton, lay it in the saucepan with a little 

water, and simmer for a quarter of an hour, then carefully skim off all 

the fat and add a little mushroom ketchup, pepper, and salt, and thicken 

with flour and batter. Give im& boil up, au^ ^&\i\\. -vi^ ^\\v w.^^et8 of 

toasted breads 



TO BBESS SAJTDERS. 159 



Beef en Miroton. 

534. Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, and put them into a frying- 
pan with some butter and six onions, turn the pan freqaentlj, then 
u>ix a little broth, add pepper and salt, and after a few boils serve up 
hot. This dish is excellent and economical. 

To Dbess the Inside of jl Cold Sibloin of Beef. 

535. Cut out all the 2neat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick as the 
linger, and two inchej^ong ; dredge it with flour, and fry in butter 
of a nice brown ; drain^he butter from the meat, and toss it up in a 
rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not 
let it boil On any account. Before serving, add two spoonfuls of 
vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. 

A Fricassee of Cold Eoast Beef. 

536. Prepare some very thin slices of cold roast beef (not too much 
cooked). Put to fry in a stewpan, an onion, some celery, and a good 
bunch of chopped parsley, with a little flour and butter, then add some 
strong broth, season with pepper and salt. It must simmer gently for 
nearly twenty minutes ; then stir into it a glass of port- wine, a little 
lemon-juice or vinegar, and two yolks of eggs. Put in the beef, after 
which it must simmer, not boil, or the beef would become hard. 

Beef Olives. 

537. Cut slices half an inch thick, and four inches square ; lay on 
them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet or fat, pepper 
and salt. Roll them, and fasten with a small skewer ; put them into 
a stewpan with some gravy made of the beef bones, or the gravy of 
the meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. 
Fresh meat will do. 

3eef Cakes, for a Side Dish of Dressed Meat. 

538. Pound some beef that is under-done with a little fat bacon or 
ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or garlic ; mix them 
well, and make into small cakes three inches long and half as wide 
and thick ; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick 
gravy. 

To Dress the Same callEiI> ^j^i>^^%. 
fS9. Mince beef, or mutton, small, mthomoii,^«^^^T,wA^^^\^^ 



160 ENGLISH OOOKEBT. 



a little gravy ; put it into scallop-sliells or saucers, making them three 
parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; 
put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before 
the fire, or with a salamander. 

To Dbess the Sjlhb, called Cecils. 

540. Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of 
onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, 
pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few 
minutes ; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and 
shape of a turkey's egg, with an egg ; sprinkle them with fine crumbs, 
and then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before 
directed for beef-olives. 

A CoRNBB Dish of Minced Meat. 

541. Take a piece of the crumb of bread, cut it into rounds about 
three inches high ; take out the centre ; fry them in bittter, and fill 
them with mincemeat. 

Cooked Beef ob Ham on Toast. 

542. A buttered toast, with cooked ham or beef scraped upon it 
and fried or browned before the fire, is excellent for breakfast or supper, 
especially if made with ham. 

Or, Take a cold smoked tongue or ham and grate or mince it fine. 
Mix it with cream and beaten yolk of egg, and give it a simmer of the 
fire. Toast and slightly butter some bread, lay them on a flat warm 
dish, and cover thickly with the tongue mixture. Serve very hot 

Bubble and Squeak. 

543. Boil and strain, then chop and fry, some cabbage, with a little 
butter or dripping, pepper and salt, and lay on it slices of under-done 
bce^ lightly fried, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 

I^Ieat Balls. 

544. Chop the meat as fine as for sausages; then mix a small 
quantity of crumbs of bread, mace, pepper, cloves, and salt, all pounded 
veil, and mix them with one egg, making them up into balls the size 

of a goose's egg. They should b© to\\©6. Va. croxcXi* a? \it^ad and egg^ 
aad fiied; dish them up with gravy, fkaNOTa^3km\j£i^«2ffiLU\.V^v2ss5^ 



KINCED VKAL. 161 



MunoK EN Masquerade. 

545. Take a shoulder of muttoii, and let it be half roasted, then cat 
the skin off and mince the meat with a good grayy. Season it, and 
put it back upon the bone. Cover with crumbs of bread, and brown it 
over. Oysters, or any other flavouring material may be added ; and 
the mince may be made of the underside of the shoulder, if the joint 
has been roasted and sent to table previously. 

Beef or Mutton Scali^fed. 

548. Chop some mutton or beef rery fine, adding some good broth 
or gravy, with som« walnut ketchup and a little Worcestershire sauce 
poured upon it, and pepper, salt, and chopped pickle, mixed with the 
meat. Put it in scallop-shells; then grate some bread, and strew 
thickly over it ; brown it nicely, and serve quite hot. Mutton is the 
best meat for the purpose, and must be weR moistened with the broth. 

Coxj9 Beef ox Mutton Stewed with Pea^. 

547. The directions are as follows : — Shell three quarters of a pecfk 
of green peais, not very young, and put them in a stewpan with the 
heart of a lettuce cut in pieces and fin onion sliced. Simmer in half a 
pint-of broth for an hour and a half; cut the beef in slices, sprinkle 
each side with pepper and salt, and put them in the stewpan. Sim- 
mer another hour and a half, then stir in a little Worcestershire sauce, 
aud add flour and butter, with a little flour of mustard, to thicken it. 
Give one boil up and serte. This would be even better with uncooked 
meat, in which case it must be put on with the vegetables. A turnip 
previously boiled ht the broth would improve the flavour. 

MiEOTON OF Veal. 

54S. Mince some cold boiled or roasted veal with a third part of 
ham, bacon, or tongue ; add to these a fifth part of bread-crumb 
soaked in milk, and an egg or two well beaten ; season with pepper 
and salt, and a chopped onion browned in the fiying-pan ; stew all _ 
these together, then butter a mould adapted to the quantity made, put 
it in while hot, and bake in an oven till the surface is brown ; then 
turn out of the mould, and serve with the gravy (see par. 282). 

Minced VEAii, 
549, Cat cold real as fine aa possible, but Oio uo\. Oao^ \^\ ^TiX.\» v» 

"Ml 



162 ENGLISH COOKERY. 

a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and 
four or five spoonfuls of either weak broth, milk, or water ; simmer 
these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil, and add a 
bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape round the dish. Or, mince as abore, and 
serve with rolled bacon toasted before the fire, and one or two poached 
eggs arranged on the surface. 

Mahsden, OB Veal Cake. 

550. Take a pie dish and butter it ; cut hard-boiled eggs into slices, 
and lay them round the sides of the dish and at the bottom, then 
slices of cold veal, ham, and pickles ; season it well, and pour over it 
^11 some good rich gravy; then place layer after layer as at the 
beginning, filling it up with good gravy; when quite full, bake twenty 
minutes. Turn out when cold. 

Or, Take the best end of a neck of veal, bone it and cut it into 
small pieces ; boil six eggs hard, divide the yolks, and cut the whites 
into pieces ; take two anchovies, some parsley chopped fine, ham 
rather lean cut in thin slices, season these well with cayenne, black 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; put a layer of veal, parsley, ham, &c., till 
the deep dish is full ; pour a cup of water over it and the bones at 
the top; cover it close down, and bake it in a slow oven for four 
hours ; take the bones off when it comes out, and turn it out when cold. 

Another, — ^Take the thick part of a leg of veal, free from skin and 
sinews, some good fresh suet or marrow, with a little bit of clear fat 
bacon. Beat it in a marble mortar till it comes to a paste. Season 
with white pepper, cayenne, salt, nutmeg, and mace, and, if it is 
liked, with a little lemon-peeL Make it up in cakes about the size of 
a biscuit ; fry them in clear dripping till they become of a nice light 
brown. Serve them up with white sauce, which must not be put 
over them. This makes a pretty corner dish, or for first or second 
course for a small party. 

Veal Balls. 

551. Two ounces of beef suet, two ounces of veal, the yolks of one 
raw and one boiled egg, one small onion, pepper, salt, mace, nutmeg, 
and lemon-peel to the taste. Beat them all well together, fry, and 
serve in gravy. 

Veal Oiaths. 
^32, Take eight or ten cutlets •, 'wasli t\icni o^«t m^\i^\x«t ^^ '^^N 



TERRAPINS. 16S 



then season, and lay over them a little forcemeat, roll them np, and 
tie them with thread, which is to be removed before serving, and fty 
them ; tlien put them in a stewpan with some good gravy, an anchovy, 
pepper, and mace ; make some balls, boil them a little, and put them 
in : thicken with flour aud butter. 

Another, — Cut some cold veal and cold ham in thin square slices 
of the same size ; lay a slice of veal on every slice of ham, and spread 
yolk of egg over the veal; lay on it a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, 
sweet marjoram rubbed fine, butter, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and 
cayenne ; then roll up each slice tightly with the ham, tie them round 
with coarse thread ; run a bird spit through them, and roast well. 
Serve with sauce made of gravy (282), a spoonful of cream, and mush- 
room ketchup. 

Minced Veal in Shape, of a Fillet. 

553. Mince the lean of a cold fillet of veal as fine as possible, mix 
with it a quarter of a pound of fat cold ham chopped small, add a tea- 
cupful of gi'ated bread-crumbs, a grated nutmeg, some powdered mace, 
grated rind of a lemon, and two beaten eggs. Season with salt and 
cayenne, mix well together, and make it the shape of a small fillet ; 
then glaze over with yolk of egg, and strew the surface over with 
bread raspings, set it in a Dutch oven, and bake till hot through, 
adding a veal gravy made from the trimmings, and thickened after the 
meat is taken out with beaten yolk of egg. Serve with the gravy 
poured round. Pillet of chicken or turkey may be made in the same 
manner. 

A Wakmed-tjp Fillet. 

554. A cold roast fillet of veal may have the outside pared ofij and 
be warmed up, re-browned, and served with white sauce over and 
around it. 

A Cold Hash of Veal on Chicken. 

555. Mince very small some cold veal or the white meat of fowls 
with some anchovies, and pickled oysters, and a little pickled lemon or 
cucumber. Garnish with pickles and eat it with oil and vinegar. 

Terrapins. 
555. Cat some cold roast veal in smaW 6c\^«ct^ft, ^\v\.\\. Vxi ^^\.««^'*^' 
poor over it a dresaing made of six 'hard.-'boV\ft^ ^%SB^ mvas*^ ^^aa. 



164 ENGLISH COOKERY. 

tea-spoonfal of made mustard, do. of salt and cayenne, half a pint cf 
cream and two glasses of sherry thoroughly mixed; stir in well and 
stew it over the fire ten minutes. Serve hot in a deep disli. Cold 
dack^ fowl, or venison, may he dressed as above. 

Quenelles of Veal. 

557. Take half a pound of good veal without sinews ; take also half a 
pound of beef suet or caHf^i udder boiled. Chop it fine and pound it in 
a mortar ; take half a pound of bread-crumbs ; soak in white sSoek or 
milk, when soaked squeeze them through a tammy sieve or clean 
cloth ; add it to the veal and suet, season with pepper, salt, and spices ; 
add tw^ eggs (white and yolks), pound it all together till quite 
smooth. Cut it with a spoon in the shape of an egg and poach in 
water, or put it in any small shapes and steam. Serve with good 
white sauce. The same may he done with chicken, game, or any 
white fish. 

Veal Bissoles. 

553. Slice a pound of crumb of bread and soak it in milk a quarter 
of an hour, lay it in a sieve and press it dry ; mince finely a pound of 
veal cutlets, with six ounces of veal suet, mix in gradually the bread, 
season and add grated lemon, moisten with two beaten eggs, then roU 
into oval balls rather smaller than an egg. Strew over tiiem dry 
bread-crumbs, fry them in lard or butter ; drain well and send to table 
hot. Serve veal gravy thickened with butter and flour, yolk of egg 
and lemon juice in a boat to eat with the rissoles. Minced chickens 
or turkey may be dressed as above. 

Veal Cutlets with Hice. 

559. Found some cold veal or chicken, and separately,, an equal 

quantity of lean cooked ham, or tongue, then pound a teacupful of 

rice which has been previously boiled in milk until quite tender ; mix 

the whole with yolk of egg, and make them into small cutlets. Before 

frying these cutlets they must be rubbed over with yolk of egg. Serve 

with a good well-flavoured brown gravy, and pickled lemona or 
mushrooms. 

Hashed Venison. 
. S60, Cut oeatly some slices of vemaoii, aiv^ \a^ \>\eifiL\Ti^%\ss,'^axL 



TO HASH calf's HEAD BROWN. 165 

abont fifteen minutes, then carefally skim off the fat, and flavour the 
grayj with salt and pepper, walnut and mushroom ketdiup, and half 
a teacupfiil of port-wine. Thicken with flour and butter, and just boil 
it up before serving. Send it to table very hot. 

Another, — Cut the venison in small sliees, and lay them in a 
saucepan, pour on them some good gravy or stock, flavoured with 
Worcestershire or Christopher North's sauce, and let them stand 
a quarter of an hour, then place the saucepan on the fire, and very 
gradually bring it nearly to a boil, serve immediately. 

A plainer Hash of Venison. — Stew the bones and trimmings with 
mutton or other bones, a slice or two of carrot, a few savoury herbs, 
and a quart of water or meat boilings, till reduced to one-half. Strain, 
and when cool, clear it of all the fat, thicken with flour and butter, or 
the brown rouz (par. 278), or with arrowroot ; flavour with mushroom 
and walnut ketchup, salt, and pepper. 

lilSSOLES. 

561. Take out the inside pf small rolls ; take mutton or chicken — if 
the former, moisten with gravy or stock; if the latter, with white 
sauce. The meat must be cut as for patties \ season to the taste ; fill 
the inside with the meat, then put the little bit you cut off the top of 
the roll on again ; tie it round with thread. Beat up an egg with a 
little cream, and dip them in ; strew with fine bread-crumbs, and 
salamander them all over, or else fry them in butter ; gaiiiish with a 
little fried parsley. 

Calf's Hbad Hashed White. 

562. Let the head be well washed, and then boil it in soft water. 
Take the meat from the bones and cut it into thin coUops, then take 
of the water it was boiled in enough to stew it till the meat is 
thoroughly hot. Work half a pound of butter well with some flour, 
and mix with it a little essence of anchovies, three blades of mace, a 
little nutmeg, with pepper and salt. Put this to the coUops, and mix 
it well together. Take the yolk of an egg, well beaten, and stir it up 
with half a pint of cream, then add it to the hash. When done, 
squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and garnish with balls of forcemeat 
and egg balls. 

To Hash Calf's Heai> "BuoYra, 
5(!S. From a bead half boiled cut off t\xe meat Va ^^stt^Vii^S. «Q.>as2 



166 EirGLISH dOOKERY. 



thick, and two or three inches long. Brown some batter, floor, and 
sliced onions, and throw in the slices with some good gravj, truffles, 
and morels ; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate 
heat to simmer till yerj tender. Season with pepper, salt, and 
cayenne, at first ; and ten minutes before serving throw in some shred 
parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut 
as fine as possible. Just before serving add the squeeze of a lemon, 
and a table-spoonful of ketchup, and if liked a glass of white wine. 
Forcemeat balls and bits of bacon rolled round. 

Calf's Head Jellt, ob Chickek, or Yeau 

. 564. Put to a head, nicely soaked, as much water as will cover it^ 
with salt, herbs, vegetables, horseradish, celery, and black peppercorns, 
sufficient to make it savoury. Let it simmer until quite tender, take 
out the head, remove the bones, and return them to the stewpan, with 
any part you like to cut off. Let the jelly boil until stiff. Strain, 
and let it stand till next day. Take off the fat and sediment, and 
melt the clear part, adding a glass of sherry. Cut the meat in smal) 
pieces, with some ham or tongue. Season with powdered mace, 
cayenne pepper, and salt. Place slices of hard-boiled eggs round a 
pie-dish or mould, lay in the meat as lightly as possible, adding the 
jelly, a little warm, by degrees, until the dish is full. Let it stand 
until set, then turn it out, and garnish with lemon. 

Scallop of Cold Veal or Chickex. 

565. Mince the meat extremely small ; and set it over the fire with 
a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a 
few minutes ; then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with 
crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of batter, and brown them 
before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared 
in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried; or these 
may be put on in little heaps. 

To Warm up Cold Poultry whole. 

566. Poultry or game if not over roasted may be warmed whole by 
being wrapped in a well-buttered paper, and put down before the fire 
tiYi warmed through. 

jyilNCED TURKliT OR. CuiC^^TS. 

607, Take the meat off the bones, lemoNe t\ie %^x^ ^\Axsxva55fc^asj3c^ 



TO DEVIL CHICKEN. 167 



with two or three slices of cold smoked tongue or ham, and some 
button mushrooms or oysters; add nutmeg and mace, and put the 
whole in a stewpan, thicken with flour and butter, and add sufiicient 
cream, to moisten it well, let it stew ten minutes then serve in a deep 
dish or with a wall of potatoes. 

To Fricassee Chickens. 

5C8. Mix together a cupful of cream, some mace beat fine, essence 
of anchovy, lemon-peel and juice or pickle, and salt to the taste. Let 
these simmer on the Are for an hour, then thicken it with flour and 
butter ; hare ready the chickens nearly done enough to eat, skin them, 
leave out the drum-sticks, liver, and gizzard, then put the chicken into 
the sauce, and make it thoroughly hot. To garnish the fricassee, 
make very small forcemeat balls of veal or pork, a little grated 
bread, chopped parsley, suet, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon-peel, 
mixed up with an egg, and boiled half an hour in milk and water. 
For family use, milk may be in part, or wholly, substituted for the 
cream ; and chicken which has previously appeared at table is excellent 
cooked in this way. 

Veal Cutlets from Dressed Meat. 

569. These are much better when made from a cooked fillet of veal 
than from raw meat. 

Pie from Cold Chickens. 

570. Cold boiled or roast chicken may be skinned and made into 
a pie, adding plenty of good stock or gravy, with eggs and flour. 

To Devil Chicken. 

571. Take the pinions, rump, thighs, and gizzard; strew over them 
half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and a spoonful of salt; put a 
lump of butter in a saucepan, add a small tea-spoonful of mustard, a 
dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or soy, and the same quantity 
of walnut liquor. Make this sauce hot, well broil the chicken, and 
lay it in. Squeeze some lemon juice over it. 

Another Devil {hotter), — Mix together lemon juice, grated lemon 
peel, salt, mustard, cayenne pepper, port-wine, Harvey's sauce, King 
of Oude's sauce (or indeed any other except anchovy')^ at d.vs«x^\.vcs^* 
Cot slices of cold meat or fowl, bullet l^i^ici '^OX, «cA ^^ "^^^svNsi 
soak in the mixture. If any sauce or grav-j \a\^l\. ixorni \>aft.^BN!y«>^ 'bo 



168 SKOLISS COOKERY. 



plojed, it will improve tha devil. When required, warm it altogether 
in a swicepao, and serve it up exceedingly hot. 

Cold Hoast ob Boilisp Fore, Fried with Cabbage. 

572. This cold meat is very good warmed up with fried cabbage, 
like bubble and squeak (par. 543). 

Hashed Pork. 

573. Cut into thin slices, and season with pepper and salt; then 
flour over all, and pot into a stewpan, with a gravy composed of a 
little broth, or even water will do seasoned with a spoonful of vinegar, 
a chopped onion, a leaf or two of sage, and a blade of mace ; boil the 
vinegar, onion, broth, and spices together, then strain, and add the 
slices for a few minutes ; and when warm through, serve. Or, pre- 
pare as above, and serve with a margin of pease-pudding warmed up 
and laid round the dish. 

Cold Fork, Devilled. 

574. Cold Fork may be devilled according to the receipt given for 
cliicken at par. 571, of course dispensing with the liver and gizzard. 

Cold Fore, Broiled. 

575. Slices of cold Fork are also very good sprinkled over with 
powdered sage leaves, and broiled. 

Pork Olives. 

576. Cut slices from a fillet or leg of cold pork, cover them with a 
common forcemeat, with sage leaves instead of sweet herbs. Roll and 
tie them ; stew them slowly in cold pork gravy or lard. Drain well 
before serving on a bed of mashed turnips, or potatoes, or pease- 
pudding. 

A Stew ov Veobtables akd Cold Meat. 

577. Fut a few slices of beet, a little onion, one lettuce, and a 
cucumber sliced, into a stewpan with a little water and a proper quan- 
tity of butter, pepper, and salt : set the pan in the oven, and when 
the vegetables have been stewed some time, put some boiled peas and 
meat into the pan, and let the whole stew till the meat is ready to 

serve up; lay the vegetables on the dish round the meat. Mutton, 
lamb, and real are excellent dressed m t\i\BxckMm^T,%.\A\\\%«.%<:iii4. 
fray of using up cold meat. 



TO FRIOASSEB TOIfaUE. 169 

Sect. 4. — ^Yasious Entbues^ os Corner Dishes. 

Bird's Nest. 

578. Eggs boiled hard, and each surrounded with forcemeat ; after 
which it is fried or browned in some way, and nicely cut in half and 
laid in the dish with grayy. 

Beef, Fork, or Yeal Haised Pies. 

579. These made about the size of a teacup, make pretty side-dishes. 

Potato Pie. 

580. Mashed potatoes raised to a pie, scalloped at the top, brushed 
over with yolk of egg and browned, filled with veal minced or cut in 
small slices and done white ; or small potatoes scooped out of old ones 
and dressed with cream ; or fish ; or fricasseed chickens may be put in, 
and it will serve as a top dish. 

• 

Poached Eggs and Spinach. 

581. Spinach, with Med toast in three-cornered pieces stuck over 
it, and poached eggs laid upon them. 

Cutlets and Steaks. 

582. Mutton Steaks, with the bones shortened and the fat taken off, 
may be arranged over a mould of mashed potatoes, or placed round 
the dish with tomato sauce in the centre. 

583. Pork Steaks, with apple sauce in the centre; or arranged 
round a mould of spinach, well boiled and mashed with a little butter 
and salt 

584. Yeal Cutlets, dressed with egg and crumbs. 

Stewed Beef Tongue. 

585. Tongue, after it has been boiled, cut into thick slices, and 
stewed in a rich brown gravy. 

To Fricassee Tongue. 

586. When boiled till tender, or previously cooked, pare off the 
outside, and cut it into thin slices, fry them, then put them into good 
gravy with a few sweet herbs, pepper, mace, and. %a\\.. ^\ftw Sx\Ai&. «^ 
hoar. Strain the gravy and thicken it 'wVt\i ^o\a «Eki^\sroXVst^ vsA*^^ 

j-olJa of two eggs. 



170 ElTGLISH COOKERY. 



GiBLBTS Fried ik Butteb. 

587. Giblets, fried with butter a light brown, and a little sliced 
onion with them, then stewed. 

Stewed Ox Palates. 

588. Ox Palate, stewed, will make, if the whole, a nice top-dish ; or 
if the half, a comer-dish. 

Stewied Calf's Head. 

589. Calf's Head, stewed or hashed, forms a good top or comer 
dish. In hashing calf's head it is an improTement to dye some of the 
egg balls green with spinach jaice. 

Sweetbread Omelet. 

590. For an omelet of six or seven eggs, take two sweetbreads, 
split and soak them well, then boil ten minutes, take them out and set 
them to cool ; mince them small and season. Beat the eggs with four 
of the whites, till very light, then mix in the chopped sweetbreads ; 
put three or four ounces of butter in a small frying-pan, and place it 
over the fire ; stir the butter with a spoon till it melts, and when it 
boils, put in the mixture, stirring it for a time. Fry it a rich brown. 
An omelet shiAild never be turned ; while frying, the top may be well 
brovrned with a salamander, or red hot shovel. While frying the 
omelet, lift the edge occasionally, by slipping a knife blade under it, 
that the butter may get beneath. If cooked too much they become 
tough. Serve with gravy. 

Sweetbread Croquettes. 

591. Mince your sweetbreads very fine, add grated bread and a 
little salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Moisten 
with cream, and make them up into small cones forming and smoothing 
them nicely; dip each into a mixture of egg and bread-crumbs, and 
fry them slowly in butter. Similar croquettes may be made of 
chicken, veal, or raw oysters. 

HicB Croquettes. 

592. Boil half a pound of rice till soft and dry, mix it with a little 
grated cheese And butter and powdered uia;cft* "MVci^ife ^\i^ %ws!k!^ ^^\d. 

chicken or turkey, six oysters, Dutmeg, atL^\emou-^^^,Tiv\iR.MA\sxss>&\Ka. 



BISSOLES. 171 

with cream. Take of the rice a piece about the size of an egg, flatten 
it and put in the centre a spoonful of the mixture, close the rice round 
it, like a dumpling, and form it in the shape of an egg. Brush it oyer 
with yolk of egg, and powder with bread-crumbs, or pounded biscuit* 
Make up the whole, and throw into a saucepan of boiling lard two at 
a time to brown them, take out with a perforated skimmer, drain them, 
and serve hot» 

Croquettes op Veal, &c 

593. One pound of cooked meat without sinews, a slice of ham, 
tongue, or lean bacon ; chop veiy fine, season with pepper, salt, and 
spices. Put into a stew-pan one ounce of butter, one spoonful oi 
flour ; let it boil five minutes, add three or four spoonfuls of good 
white stock, two spoonfuls of cream. Let it stand all together, till it 
becomes of the consistence of thick cream ; add the chopped meat, 
and let it boil, and mix it well ; then spread it on a dish to cool. 
When quite cold, roll it into round balls, or any other shape, and fry 
in boiling lard or dripping till they come to a light brown. Serve with 
fried parsley. 

Croquette op Chickens. 

594. Shred and chop very fine the breast of a cold chicken or fowl ; 
have ready some good, thick white sauce, with a little glaze in it, mix 
it with the fowl, and put it aside to cool ; when quite cold, roll it up 
into balls the size and shape of a walnut. Beat up one or two eggs» 
and have ready some very fine bread-crumbs, dip the balls into the 
egg, then into the crumbs three or four times, lay them on paper to 
dry, and just before dinner, fry them of a light brown in a little boiling 
lard ; take them up and lay them on a sheet of paper on a sieve to 
drain ; dish then up on a napkin, with fried parsley round. Care must 
be taken that they do not look gi'easy. Cold veal or game does as 
well. 

Rissoles. 

595. Prepare the forcemeat as for croquettes. Make a little puff 
paste, roll it very thin, cut it in square pieces ; put a little forcemeat 
on ; wet round the edges of the paste, turn it over, unite the paste well 
together to keep in the meat. Cut it In aiv^j %\v«c^^ ^q^olX^^ ^>5^ 
cotters. It is pretty in small round "baWa t\ift %yl^ ol «>. smoJX v^'^^' 

-FVf the same as rissoles^ and serve on a nsc^^xu 



172 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



596. Rissoles of Turkey or Chicken. — ^Fick the meat from the 
bones, and take off the skin ; add some lean ham or tongue, with a 
quarter of the weight of the meat in finel j grated stale bread-^immbs, 
A little bntter, an onion boiled in two waters, and rendered as miM 
as possible, and finely chopped, with pepper and salt, and bind the 
forcemeat with two eggs beaten ; roll out some puff-paste, verj thin, 
cut it in square pieces, and lay a teaspoonful of the forcemeat in the 
centre ; fold the paste up, taking care to unite the edges, which should 
be smooth and moistened with water. Dip each rissole in crumbs, 
and fry them dry in lard. Crisp parsley is a good garnish for this 
dish. 

Puree op Fowl. 

597. After chopping fine and pounding the white meat of turkey or 
fowl, add enough of white sauce to pass it through a sieve, flayouied 
with lemon-peel and juice, or lemon pickle, and a little encumber 
ketchup. This may be heaped in the middle of a dish and garnished 
with the broiled legs, or it may be served in a wall of mashed pota- 
toes, or rice egged over and browned ; if rice, strew upon the egg some 
fine bread-crumbs before browning. 

Sausages akd Potatoes. 

598. Potatoes nicely mashed and shaped in a basin, or deep pie- 
dish, turned out and covered with sausages ; all the ties crossing at 
the top. 

Potato Balls Ragout 

599. Are made by adding to one pound of potatoes a quarter of a 
pound of grated ham, some sweet herbs, chopped parsley, an onion or 
shalot, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg or other spice, with the 
yolk of a couple of eggs ; fry them in clear dripping, or brown them 
in a Dutch oven. 

A Pretty Corner Dish op Forcemeat. 

600. Take four large eggs, boil and peel them ; make a rich force- 
meat, covering them well with it moderately thick-; fry them of a fine 
brown, and serve them up with a rich brown gravy. 

To Boil Bici^ tob. C\sbslx. 
601. Take one pound of Patna ike^ -weW.'ww^'^ a\A ^^38.^% \paN.\v 



BABBIT CUBBY. 173 



in a saoeepan, and poar oyer it boiling water, cover it close, and let it 
stand by the fire for a quarter of an hour ; pour the water off, and set 
it over the iire for two minutes to dry the rice, stirring it well with a 
fork, great care should be taken not to harden the jice with the heat. 

Chicken Currt. 

602. Cut up the chicken raw, slice onions, and fiy both in butter 
with great care, of a fine light brown ; or, if you use chickens that 
hare been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two 
or three pieces each, into a stewpan, with a veal or mutton gravy, and 
a cloTe or two of garlic. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. 
Half an hour before serving it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of cnrry- 
powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter ; and add this, 
with four large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to the taste. . 
When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. Slices of under-done veal, 
or rabbit, turkey, &c., make excellent curry. Hice boiled dry must be 
served round the curry. For directions to do this, see following par. 

Another Chicken Curry, mere easily made. — Cut up a chicken or young 
rabbit ; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each piece in a mixture of a 
large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of curry-powder. Slice two 
or three onions, and fry them in butter, of a light brown ; then add the 
meat, and fry all together till the meat begins to brown. Put it all 
into a stewpan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. 
Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water 
half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a 
little broth will be better than water; but the curry is richer when 
made of fresh meat. 

Atwtber. — ^Take two large spoenf^ of carry- powder, mix it with a 
teaenpfol of water, half a teaenpful of vinegar, and a dessert-spoonful 
of salt. Stew slowly for an hour, and when it becomes too thick add 
a little more vinegar and water. About three-quarters of an hour 
before dinner, pnt in the fowl, veal, mutton, or fish, cut into square- 
sized pieces, and previously fried of a pale-brown, with six large 
onions sliced thin. Then stew the whole together till it becomes 
quite tender. 

Rabbit Cubby. 

603. Cut up two rabbits into small pieces, roll eaclv \^\\. ycl ^•tsvt^ vsJ^ 
fry in dripping a nice brown ; try four or ^\e Ttt\^<i2L'ft-^YL^<^ ovs^wcv^ ^:?ax 

mskred^ then put all together into a stew|^aA>N>(\!)E^l «tLWs.^ ^ff«^ '^'^ 



171: ENGLISH COOKERY. 

cover it ; mix four dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, a little salt, and 
half a tea-spoonful of chutnee in four table-spoonfuls of mushroom 
ketchup, and the same quantity of vinegar, add it to the rabbit, then 
let it stew slowly three or four hours, and just before dishing add the 
juice of one and a half lemon. If the gravy is thin, mix a little flour 
with cold gravy, and add to it. 

East India Currt. 

604. Cut up the rabbit or other meat and sprinkle it with flour. 
Fry it in butter with two middling-sized onions cut small, then put it 
into a stewpan with one pint of good beef gravy, one large table- 
spoonful of curry-powder, one table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
one tea-spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, the juice of a small 
lemon, one large potato and one large apple chopped, and stew for 
twenty minutes. Serve with rice. 

A Madras Curry, 

605. Take three large onions, slice and fry them in butter ; then fry 
tlie fowl, meat, or lobster in the same pan, first taking out the onions ; 
stir into it one pint of good gravy, well seasoned, two large spoonfuls 
of curry -powder and a little salt, add it to the meat, and stew gently 
an hour and a half; when nearly done add the juice of a lemon, and 
serve it up with boiled rice. 

PiLLAU. 

606. Boil a large fowl in three pints of water until it is done ; wash 
one pound of rice three or four times, strain it till quite dry, then firy 
it in half a pound of butter till almost brown ; throw in the fowl, add 
one table-spoonful of cloves whole, a little salt, two or three bay- 
leaves, and some mace ; let them all boil together till the water is dried 
up; take out the fowl and rice, and when dished fry some onions 
brown, and stew over the pillau. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

Lobster Bissoles. 

607. Extract the meat of a boiled lobster, mince it fine as possible, 
and mix with it the coral pounded smooth, and some yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs pounded also. Season it with cayenne pepper, powdered 

mace, and & very little salt. Make a batter of beaten egg, milk, and 

If oar. To each egg allow two large te«t-B^oT\iY3L% oItdxWl, w\d a large 

tea-spoonful of floor. Beat the battet weU, «a.^ ^iJiasii Ts2ck\)w5i VSva^x^ 



T1MBAX.LS MACABONI. 175 



vrUh. it gradually, till it is stiff enough to make into oval balls, about 
the sice of a large plum. Fiy them in the best salad oil, and serve 
them up either warm or cold. 

Macaroni. 

608. If for a corner, take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, scald 
it till tender, but not to break or stick together. When scalded, cut 
it in pieces one>third of an inch in length, and a perfect pipe ; then 
make a brown mince of every kind of meat, game, and poultry you 
happen to have cooked, with a little fat and lean of ham or bacon. 
Add a small piece of onion, finely chopped, pepper, salt, a little 
cayenne, or ketchup and Worcestershire sauce about a tea-spoonful of 
each, and a small quantity of gravy to moisten it. Butter the basin 
thickly, and stick the macaroni closely into it, so as to give the 
appearance of a honeycomb when turned out, and fill up with the 
mince-meat, laying the rest of the macaroni at the top. Boil an hour, 
if a large basin, having tied a pudding cloth tightly over it, and take 
it out of the water five minutes before turning it out of the basin. 
Serve with a tureen of gravy, putting a very little in the dish. 

Another, — Boil it about an hour and a half till tender, strain the 
water from it, and put it back into the saucepan. Add a little 
pepper, salt, and a very little cayenne, a small bit of butter, and a 
little cream ; put it on a dish with some cheese cut thin, leave it 
before the fire a few minutes ; or, when you have made the macaroni 
quite ready and hot, stir some grated cheese into it, and send it to 
table. 

Ybal and IIam Macaboni, ob Hichlieu. 

609. Boil three ounces of macaroni tender, beat up two eggs, then 
fill up a pint basin, or melon-shaped mound, with nicely -flavoured 
minced veal and ham, a little grated lemon peel ; mix well, and boil 
five minutes. Serve with good gravy in the dish. 

TiMBALLS Macaboni. 

610. Boil the macaroni in water, and an ounce of butter. When 
it has boiled a few moments, strain it off and return it into the pan. 
Add half a pint of stock ; boil it slowly on a stove, till reduced ; then 
prepare a fricassee of chicken, put the macaroni to it^ with. «.\Lt^^ 
grated parmesan, m&ke all hot, then set it to coo\. ^vvXX^x* ^ \S!l^\^^ 
treH sprmkleit with bread-cmmbs, andUue W. ^\X\i\ii\S. ^xiS.^^^'^N 



176 KNGLISH COOKERY. 

put in the chicken quite cold ; cover and bmko it in a. ilow oreil. 
\Vhen done, turn it out of the mould; cut off tbe top, and povr over 

some wliitc sauce, and some in the dish. 

Tbtb a la Mode. 

611. Take an ox-cheek niceljr washed, season it well with pepper, 
salt, mace, and cloves, and some chopped onion rubbed well oyer it ; 
put it in a stewpan, with as much water as will cover it ; stew it two 
hours, and when cold skim the fat off. Have readjr a cow-heel, well 
cleaned and boiled tender ; cut the head and foot in square bits the 
size of sugar-lumps, place them in layers in an earthen pan ; season 
between each layer with pepper, salt, and mace ; fill the pan wifli 
gravy, cover it with a plate, and bake it two hours in a slow oyeii. It 
is to be eaten cold. 

Carrole of Bice. 

612. Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and bml it five 
minutes in water, strain it, and pot it into a stewpan, with a bit of 
butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. Stew it over a very gentle 
fire till tender, have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon, 
mix tbe yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the 
bacon with it about Ivalf an inch thick. Put into it a ragout oi 
chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. Fill up the mould, and 
cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an hour, torn it oyer, 
and send it to table in a good gravy or curry sauce. 

Salmagukdy. 

613. This is a beautiful small dish, if in ^64 shape, and ii thQ 
colours of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose chop se- 
parately the white parts of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggi boiled 
hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half a dozen anchovies, beet-root, 
red pickled cabbage, ham and grated tongues, or any thing well 
flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion 
of onion, but it may be better left out, A saucer, large teacup, or any 
other base, must be put into a small dish ; then make rows round if 
wide at bottom, and growing smaller towards the top, choosing such 
of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At th« 

fop a little sprig of curled parsley may "b^ sta&Wot« Qt, witbofut any 
tlijn£^ on tbe diab, the salmagnndy may \>e 'Vsoii y^ xv«%, ^t Y^y'xciNA 



FOimU OF CHEISB. 177 



the lukif-whites of egffi, which may be made to stand upright hj 
entting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each half egff 
has but one ingredient. Curled parsley and butter may be put as 
garnish between. 

Sayoubt Omblet. 

614. Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little flour ; put 
to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the latter are best), 
or & Tery small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape 
or two of nutmeg. Make some butter, boil in a small fryiagpan, and 
pour the above batter into it; when ^le side is of a fine yeUow- 
brown, turn it and do the other. Doable it when served. Some 
scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant 
addition. Four eggs will make a pretty-sixed omelet; but many 
cooks will use eight or ten. A small proportion of flour should be 
used. If the taste be approved, a Utile tarragon gives a fine flavour. 
A good deal of parsley should be used. 

Another, — ^Let e^t ^;gs be well beaten, leaving out two whites ; 
add half a- pint of cream, half a pound of melted butter, with some 
parsley and oviions shred fine, a little pepper and salt ; this mixture 
is to be fried in a pan, first browning a good piece of buttw in it. 
Pour some gravy over it. 

RA3IAKINS. 

615. Scrape a quarter of a pound each of Cheshu-e and Gloucester 
cheese, and good fre^ butter ; beat all in a mortar with the yolks of 
four eggs, and the inside of a small French roll boiled in cream till 
solt ; mix the paste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, 
and put into small paper pans made rather long than square, and bake 
in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite 
hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white wine. The batter 
for ramakins is equally good over macaroni when boiled tender ; or 
on stewed brocoli, celery, or cauliflower; a little of the gravy they 
have been stewed in being put in the dish. 

FOKDU OF ChXEBB. 

616. Grate half a pound of parmesan or any mild cheese, put in a 
stewpan, with two ounces of butter, set it over the stove, and keep 
stirring till quite melted, then take it off thft %1k^^^ va.^ \skL >x 
thoroughly with six yolka o( eggs and a\itt\« cx«%xa) ^«c^^v2tt.^2^ 

MomesmaU papers half foil, and then bake tYi^m. 

1R 



178 ENGLISH COOKERT. 



Another, — To a pint of cream pat half a pound of grated cheesCf 
and the yolks of four eggs ; mix and beat all well together. Then 
whip the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and mix them well with 
the cream, &c. ; put the mixture in small paper trajs, for a silTer dish, 
and bake it in a slow oven. 

German Patties (Bemoyb fob Second Coubss), 

617. Cut some very thin slices of bread with a round cutter, and 
soak them in clarified batter, then make a mince of anj cold meat, 
season with salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of grated cheese, a little 
cuny powder, some good grayy, and a little cream ; thicken with flour 
and butter, then put as much mince as you can between two pieces 
of the prepared bread, press them together at the edge, egg and crumb 
them, fry them of a light brown, dish them on a napkin and send 
them to table very hot. 

Columbus Eoos. 

618. Cut in half) twelye hard boiled eggs, and cut off a little at each 
end to make them stand like cups ; chop the yolks, and mix with ham, 
cream, and nutmeg ; fill with it the cups, press it smooth, arrange on 
the dish the two halves together like whole eggs. 

French Batter. 

619. Four half a teacupful of boiling water on an ounce and a quarter 
of butter, and when melted add three times as much of cold water 
so that the chill will be just off. Mix the above by degrees and 
very smoothly, with five ounces of well dried flour, a very little pinch 
of salt, if for fruit, but doable the quantity if the batter is to be 
served with meat or vegetables ; and at the moment it is wanted mix 
in the white of one egg beaten to a fine froth. This is excellent for 
fhiit fritters or frying with meat or vegetables. 

Sect. 5. — Potted Meats and Sandwiches. 

To Pot Meats. 

620. Take any tender and well-done meat, free from fat, bone, skin, 
and gristle. Pound it thoroughly in a mortar till it is reduced to a 
paste, putting in a part at a time. When all is thoroughly reduced, 
add the spice and some butter, according to the nature of the meat ; 

ham requiring leaa than veal, and veaX a^a.Vn. \^e% ik&n beel^ After 
mhdng tbem together in the most Oiotou^ niAbXmfix^ ^-c^j^ ^<^ 



TO POT VBAL. 179 



potted meat into jars with force enough to expel all the air, then 
poor over the top a layer of clarified hutter about a third of an inch- 
thick, which is removed before using the meat. The butter that has- 
covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies. 

To Clabtpt Butter fob Potted Things. 

621. Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew* 
pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour 
the milky part over the potted things, as it will sink to the bottom. 

To Pot Beef or Mutton. 

622. Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, and let it 
lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four 
days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, and season with black 
pepper; lay it in as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with 
coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no 
liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat ; beat the meat 
very fine, with a quarter of a pound of fine butter, just warm but 
not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste. Put 
into very small pots, and cover with melted butter. 

Another, — ^Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted ; 
beat it in a mortar, with some pepper, salt, one blade of mace to 
each pot, some grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter, just warm. 
The flavour of this is equal to the above, but the colour is not so 
fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. 

Another, — ^Pound three or four pounds of lean beef, with half an ounce 
of saltpetre, the same of sugar, and a large handful of common salt, 
lay it in a pan for two or three days, turning it occasionally. Wash 
and put it in a jar with half a pound of butter. Cover close and 
stew in a water bath till quite tender. Take it out of the liquor, 
and, while hot, add powdered pepper and mace, and as much of the 
liquor as is required to make it mix, pound very fine and pot it; 
and when cold cover with clarified butter. 

To Pot Veal. 

623. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or it may be done 
as follows: — Season a large slice of the fillet, before it is dressed, 
with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three clovea^Vwj >X.^<5RRk 
into a -potting'p&n that will but just liold \t, ^ Vi \3l^ ^Sfitt. ^^^t^j^xA- 

bake H three bonrs; then pound it qjoit^ smsKL m ^isiSscwKt^ ^sw^ 



180 SNQLISH OOOEEBY. 



add salt to tafite ; put a little grayj that was baked to it ia pomidiiig, 
if to be eaten soon ; otherwise only a little butter just melted, When 
done, cover it over with bnttw. 

To Pot Veal or Chicken with Hax. 

624. Found some cold veal or white of chicken, season as directed 
in the last article, and put lajer» of it with layers of ham pounded, 
or rather shred ; press each down, and cover with butter. 

Another — (A good supper dish.) Make a sauce of thin veal gravy, 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little flour. Found or dress very 
fine sufficient cold veal and ham to fill your mould. Mix it with the 
sauce, and pour it hot into a mould, which must be previously lined 
with two or three hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Turn out wh^n cold. 

To Pot Uncooked Veal. 

625. Stew the veal in the oven with a very little water till tender, 
then chop it, and to two pounds of meat put half a pound of butter, 
the rind of half a lemon grated, a little mace, two ounces fat bacon, 
and pepper and salt to your taste. Pound it very fine in a mortar, and 
iust warm it through in the oven before putting it into the pots ; a 
little butter melted, or clarified suet, must then be poured over it. It 
looks and tastes well if alternate layers of potted lean of ham are laid 
in the pots with the ve^l. 

Potted Ham. 

626. Slice some cold ham and mince it small, fat and lean together^ 
Then pound it in a mortar, seasoning with cayenne, and powdered 
mace and nutmeg. Fill with it a large deep pan, and set it in the 
oven for half an hour ; afterwards pack it hard in a stone jar, and fill 
up with lard. If sufficiently seasoned it will keep well in the winter, 
and is convenient for travelling. 

Potted Tongue, 

627. Tongue is potted exactly like beef. 

Potted Habe. 

628. Hare is potted also in the same way as beef, removing the meat 
from the bones after roasting it, and mixing up the forcemeat with it. 

To Fox Pigeons, 
6^9. Ztet th^m be quite fresh,, cVeati ^om. cax^t\]!Sl^)^u\^%-QSb^\i^^o^ 



TO POT OX CHEEK. 181 



salt and pepper ; lay them close in a small deep pan, for the smaller 
the surface and the closer they are packed the less hutter will he 
wanted; ooyer them with batter, then with very thick paper tied 
down, and bi^e them ; when cold, put them dry into pots that will 
hold two or three in each, and pour batter OTer them, using that which 
was baked as part. Observe that the hatter should be pretty thick it 
they are to be k^t. If pigeons are boned, and then put in an oval 
form into the pot, they will lie closer, and require less butter. They 
may be staffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal and bacon. 

Another fFe^.— Bone and season them with peppw and salt, put 
them in a pot with as much butter as will cover them ; bake till very 
tender ; drain them from the gravy, and wipe them dry with a cloth, 
season again with salt, pepper, mace and cloves poanded ; put them 
closely into pots, and when cold melt the butter from the gravy, and 
pour it an inch thick over the meat. 

To FoT Past&idgs. 

630. Clean them nicely, and season with mace, allspice, white 
pq>per, and salt, in fine powder; rub every part well, then lay the 
breasts downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you pos- 
sibly can ; put a good deal of butter on them, then c«(ver the pan with 
a coarse fiour paste, and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When 
cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with batter. 

Atiother (a very cheap way of potting birds). — ^Prepare them as 
directed in the last receipt ; and when baked and grown cold, cut 
them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close in a large potting- 
pot, and, if possible, leave no spaces to receive the batter. Cover them 
with batter, and one-third part less will be wanted than when the birds 
are done whole. 

To Pot Wooikwctkb. 

631. The same as the pigeons, excepting that the trail must be left in. 

To Pot Ox Chxek. 

632. When you stew an ox cheek take some of the fleshy part, 
season well with pepper and salt, and beat it in a mortar, with a little 
clear fat skimmed off the gravy. Put it close into pots and cover 
with clarified butter ; or, cut it in slices and lay them into an earthen- 
waie mould with come of the gravy ; when cold, turn it ^^ ^a^ ^ 
breakfast or sapper dish. Calf's kead aWwedi m%.^ \i^ \.\5i».N*^ ^ 
above. 



183 ENGLISH OOOKSBT. 



To Cut Sandwiches. 

633. Batter a two pound loaf, not too stale, and divided smoothlf, 
then cat a thin slice, and laj on it either thin slices of meat, or Bome 
of the potted meat just given. If beef or ham is nsed, a little mastaid 
is usaallr added. After this, place on the top another slice of bread, 
similarlj battered, cat off the crost all round, so as to make an 
oblong sqaare, and divide this into five or six sandwiches, which 
should be kept moist between two plates, or in a proper sandwich-box. 
Anv nomber maj be cat and added, by placing one lajer above the 
other. Otj nse potted meat, such as beef, veal, chicken, ham, or 
tongae, spread on the bread cat as above. This method is far better 
than the slices, as there is less difficulty in dividing them with the 
teeth. 

AXCHOVT BUTTEB. 

634. Bone three or four anchovies, chop them small, boil some 
parsley quite green, lay the anchovies and parsley with about two 
ounces of good fresh butter on a sieve, mix all well together through 
the sieve, and make it into little pats like butter. 



CHAP. XIV.— VEGETABLES. 

Sect. 1. — General Observations in Dressing Vegetables. 

635. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, by putting 
them with the stalk or root end upwards into water, or salt and water, 
and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the 
moment they are done enough. If overboiled they will lose their 
beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat, 
which is wrong, except carrots or cabbage with boiling beef. 

To Boil Vegetables of a good Green Colour, 

636. Take care that the water boils when they are put in. Make 
them boil very fast. Do not cover, but watch them, and if the water 
has not slackened you may be sure they are done when they begin to 
sink. Then take them out immediately, r>r the colour will change. 
Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vege- 

tables as Bhonld be green *, a little salt s1vo\j\6l ^.V^^.-^^ b^ Tjut in the 
water. To hoil them green in liat^ waXct, ijjxxit «. v^^-^^^qtdSxJ^ ^1 



POTATOES. 183 



carbonate of soda or potash into the water when it boils, before the 
vegetables are put in. 

Sect. 2. — Special Dibections fob DBEssn^a Yeoetables. 

Potatoes. 

637. To Boil. — An excellent Receipt — ^Pare or merely wash them, as 
preferred, and put them in a covered saucepan of cold water, with a 
tea-spoonful of salt ; boil them till they are done (which can be ascer- 
tained by running a fork into them) and begin to break a little ; then 
pour the water from them, and hold the saucepan, with the lid off, over 
the fire for two or three minutes^ shaking well at the end of the time ; 
put the lid loosely on so as to allow the steam to escape, and sprinkle 
a very little salt over them ; let them stand till wanted (the sooner the 
better), but they may remain in this way, if necessary, half an hour or 
more. Time, twenty to thirty minutes, or longer if very large. 

Another way, — Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold 
water ; let them half boil, then throw some salt in and a pint of cold 
water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour off the water, 
and put a clean cloth over them, and then the saucepan cover, and set 
them by the fire to steam till ready. Many persons prefer steamers. 
Potatoes look best when the skin is peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes 
the same ; but be careful they are taken off in time, or they will be 
watery. Before dressing, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and 
then wash. 

638. To Bboil. — ^Parboil, then slice and broil them. O, parboil, 
and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when 
thoroughly done send them up with their skins on. This last way is 
practised in many Irish families. 

639. To Roast. — Half boil, take, off the thin peel, and roast them 
of a beautiful brown. Or, put them with the peel on in the ashes of 
a wood fire. 

640. To Fbt. — ^Take the skin off raw potatoes, slifee them, soak in 
cold water, and fry them, either in butter or thin batter. Or, as, 

641. PoTATOB Chips. — ^Wash and peel some potatoes, then pare 
them, ribbon -like, into long lengths; put them into cold water to 
remove the strong potatoe flavour ; drain them, and throw them into a 
pan with a little butter, and fry them a light brown. Take them out 
of the pan, and place them close to the fire on a sieve lined "vWdl ^'iaKv. 
writing paper to dry, before they are serre^-vr^. K\v\J<iNA vJS^TSia:^^'^^ 

sprinkled over them. 



184 ENOLJ8H CX>OKERY. 



642. To Bakb. — ^Wasfa and pat them whole and nnpeeled into a slow 
oven, and let them remain from an hour and a half to two hours. 

643. To Mash. — ^Boil the potatoes, peel them, and hreak them to 
paste ; then to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of hot milk, 
a little salt, and two ounces of batter, and stir it all well over the 
fire. Either serve them in tbis manner, or place them on the dish in 
a form, and then brown the tO|p with a salamander, or in scallops 
before the fire. 

644. Kbw Poxatobs. — ^To Boil. — ^Procure them of equal size, and 
if very young, wa^ them only; if: older, rub off the skins with a 
scrubbing-brush or coarse cloth. Put them into boiling water till 
tender, and sprinkle -a little salt over them, and put a lump of 
batter in ; shake up and serve. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. If 
very early potatoes are half boiled the day before, and finished when 
wanted, they will not be watery — ^if served in cream sauce they are 
very nice, especially for supper. 

645. CooKSD Potatoes. — ^To Fjix. — Heat some dripping or lard in 
a firyingpan, then drop in some slices of boiled potatoes, or broken 
fragments will do quite as well, stir them with a spoon, and in about 
ten minutes they will be browned enough, then drain off any super- 
fluous fat, add a little pq)per and salt, and serve. 

646. Qld Potatoes in a New Deebs. — ^Wash and pare some large 
old potatoes, then, with an iron scoop, make them into small balls the 
size of young ones ; steam them, and serve with white sauce poured 
over them. 

647. Potato Balls. — ^Mash very smooth some well-boiled potatoes 
with a little cream (or butter and milk) and salt, then form them 
into balls the size of a peach, and indented like one, or into the shape 
of a pear ; warm through, and brown slightly on one side in a Dutch 
oven. The pears should be served on a napkin with the broad end 
downwards, and a bit of stalk stuck in the other end. They may also, 
as a variety, be placed in a well-thickened brown gravy, poured round 
but not over them. 

648. BissoLBS DB Pommes db Terre. — ^Mix with potatoes mashed 
with milk some fine chopped herbs ; roll into long rissoles, fry them a 
light brown, and send them as hot as possible to table. O, brush them 
over with yolk of egg, and dip them in bread-crumbs ; then having 
melted a little butter in a saucepan, put in the rissoles, and shake 

them gently over the fire till they axe aU%\a\iiwnk 



BEBT-BOOT. 189 



Cabrots and Parsnips. 

649. These vegetables require a good deal of boiling. When young 
wipe off the skin after thej are boiled ; when old, boil them with the 
salt meat, and scrape them first. (Parsnips should always be scraped.) 
Average time, from twenty to forty-five minutes. 

650. To Stbw Carrots White. — Half boil, then nicely scrape, and 
slice them into a stewpan. Put to them half a teacupful of any weak 
broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream ; simmer them 
till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving, rub a veiy 
little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, 
chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before served. 

651. To Stbw Carrots Brown. — ^Take six large carrots, wash and 
scrape them well, put them into boiling water, and let them boil for 
half an hour; then take them out, drain, and cut each carrot into as 
many round balls as it will make ; put them into the stewpan with a 
pint of gravy, flavoured vfith a little pepper, salt, mushroom ketchup, 
and Worcestershire sauce ; let them simmer for twenty mi&utes, then 
take them out, pile them in the centre of the dish, thicken the gravy 
with a little flour and batter, pour it over the carrots and serve. 

652. Parsnips would be very good cooked in this way. 

653. To Mash Parsnips or Carrots. — ^Boil them till tender, pare, 
and then mash them and warm in a stewpan with a little cream, a 
good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. 

654. Fricassee of Parsnips. — ^Boil in milk till they are soft, then 
cut them lengthways into bits two or three inches long, and simmer 
in a white sauce made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a 
capful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper and salt. 

Beet-root. 

655. Beet-roots make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad, of 
which they may agreeably form a full hal^ instead of being only used 
to ornament it. These roots are cooling and very wholesome. They 
should be carefully washed, but not scraped (or the colour will 
escape), and boiled till tender, after which they should be pared. As 
a vegetable they may be sent in hot, as carrots. 

656. Stewed Beet-root is extremely good boiled and sliced with a 
small quantity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small^ 
as follows — ^boil the beet with the skin on, aWtft \\. VaXQ «ii ^kVe^^^Sk.-^^sSsv 
a little brotb, and a spoonful of yinegar \ EVaimftx Nj^ ^^ ^^^'i "^^ 



186 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



tinged with the colour, then pat it into a small dish, and make a circle 
ronnd of the button onions, first boiled till tender. Time, one hour 
and a half to two hours. 

Another Mode. — Cut in dice two middling sized onions, put in a pan 
with two ounces of butter, fry white, stirring continually with a spoon, 
add a spoonful of flour and milk, enough to make a thinnish sauce, 
then add to it three salt-spoonfuls of salt, four of sugar, one of pepper, 
a spoonful of good vinegar ; boil a few minutes, then put in the slices 
of beet-root (already boiled as for salad), and simmer for a quarter of 
an hour. A little cream may be added to make it richer. 

Turnips. 

657. To Boil. — ^Pare them, and if large, split them ; if small, leave 
them whole. Put them in boiling water with a little salt, and keep 
them well covered until they are tender. They require from fifteen 
to thirty minutes. 

658. To Mash. — Boil them as above till very tender, then press the 
water from them between two plates, after which mash them, and 
pass them through a colander. Then put them into a saucepan, add 
a little salt, and some milk or cream ; keep stirring till quite hot, then 
serve. 

Onions. 

659. To Stew. — Peel six large onions j fry gently of a fine brown, 
but do not blacken them ; then put them into a small stewpan with a 
little weak gravy, pepper, and salt ; cover and stew gently for two 
hours. They should be lightly floured at first. 

660. To Roast. — They should be done with all the skins on ; they 
eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter, or with roast potatoes 
or beet-roots. 

661. Spanish Onions. — ^To Stew. — ^Boil four onions, and when 
done scoop out the middle, and fill them with forcemeat ; fry them a 
light brown, and make a rich gravy and pour over them. This makes 
a good corner dish. 

662. To Fry Onions for Steaks, Herrings, &c. — Peel the onions, 
cut them in slices, fry them in the fat from the steak, &c., which ought 
to be fried first and kept hot the while. They are usually served in the 
same dish with the steak or fish. 

CE1.1.ILY. 

€63, To Stew,— Wash six heads, au4 a\.tv^ o« VJa& wi\Kt\^»Mt5^\ 



LATER. 187 

either halve or leave them whole, according to their size ; cnt into 
lengths of four inches ; put them into a stewpan with a cup of broth or 
weak white gravy ; stew till tender ; then add two spoonfuls of cream^ 
and a little flour and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, 
and simmer all together. 

Asparagus, 

664. To Boil. — Clean the asparagus, and cut all of a length, then 
boil till the tops are quite tender ; have ready a toast to place them 
on, and serve while hot. A little mint boiled with asparagus is a 
great improvement to its flavour. Time, about twenty minutes. 

665. Asparagus Served as Peas. — A variety may be made in the 
mode of serving asparagus, by cutting up the tender parts into small 
pieces, and when boiled with a sprig or two of mint till nearly done 
(half the usual time) ; they should be dried in a cloth, and finished up 
as young peas, adding a very little sugar, butter, and a little flour 
dredged over them. 

Vegetablb-marrow. 

666. To Boil. OR Stew. — This excellent vegetable may be boiled 
till tender ; then divide it lengthways into two, and serve it up on 
toast, accompanied by melted butter ; or when nearly boiled, divide 
it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be 
taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. Time, 
from half an hour to one hour. 

667. To Mash. — ^When too old and large to send to table as above, 
they should be cut in quarters, the seeds taken out, and boiled till 
tender; then drain the water from them through a colander, mash 
them with a little pepper, butter, and salt, and serve on a bat- 
tered toast. 

Sea Kale. 

668. This must be boiled very white, and served on toast like aspa- 
ragus and vegetable-marrow. White sauce may be poured over it. 
Time for boiling, from half an hour to three-quarters. 

669. To Stew Brown. — ^Boil the kale, as above ; then drain it, and 
simmer slowly in a stewpan, with from half a pint to one pint of rich 
and well-seasoned clear gravy, for twenty minutes, and serve. 

Laysb. 
070, This 13 a plant that grows ot> ilie toc"^ Xife«x MJsvfc ?»^«* vtt.'^ift-^'^^*^ 



188 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



of England, und i* sent in pots prepared for eating. Set it in a dish 
oyer a lamp, with a bit of butter, and tiie sqaeese of a Seville orange; 
stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is supposed to be a 
great sweetener of the blood. It is seldom liked at firs^ b«t people 
become extremely fond of it by habit. 

Artichokes. 

671. To Dress. — ^Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cat the 
stalk even ; if young, half an hour will boil them ; they are better fbr 
being gathered two or three days first Serve them with melted bnttex^ 
in as many small cups as there are artichokes. Time nearly an hour. 

672. Artichokb Bottoms. — ^If dried, they must be soaked, then 
stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. 
Or^ they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream sauce; or 
added to ragouts, French pies, &c. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. 

673. Jerusalem Artichokes mvst be taken up the moment they are 
done, or they will be too soft. They usually take about twenty to 
twenty-five minutes. They must be boiled plain, or served with white 
fricassee-sauce, or mashed like turnips, seasoning with pepper and salt, 
and adding a little butter. If the cook points the Jerusalem artichokes 
when paring them, and sets them upon the dish at the wide end, 
pouring white sauce over them, they form a pretty dish. 

674. To Fry. — ^First pare, then boil, the artichokes for about ten 
minutes, and drain them on a sieve. When nearly cold, dip them 
into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them of a light brown ; drain them 
from the fat, but do not allow them to cool before serving. 

Sfikach. 

675. Spinach requires great care in washing and picking it. When 
that is done, throw it into a saucepan that will just hold it, sprinkle 
it with a little salt, and cover dose. The pan must be set on the fire, 
and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit 
of butter; it must come to tdi>ie pretty dry, and looks well if pressed 
into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin 
shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement ; or a few spoonfuls of 

good gravy, which must be absorbed "by a^aAii\ioWYcv^ a^jaivcklY. Plain 
sippets, or bread cat in shapes aad fded, may ^)« «A^^ »a ^ ^xtSiofi^ 



CAULIFLOWEKS, 189 



To Stew Spinach. 

676. Wash your spinach in several waters, put it in a colander, and 
throw it into a large pan of boiling water, with a handfiil of salt ; boil 
it two minutes to take off the earthy taste, squeeze it well in a sieve, 
put abont a quarter of a pound of butter into a tossing'pan, put in 
your ^inach, keep turning and chopping it with a knife till quite dry 
and green ; lay it upon a plate, press it with another, cut it in the shape 
of diamonds, and pour round it some good melted butter. It will eat 
exceedingly mild, far better than when cooked in the common way. 

Cauliflowers. 

677. To Boil. — Choose those that are close and white, cut off the 
green leaves, and look carefully that there are no caterpillars about 
the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then boil them in milk and 
water, and take eare to skim the saucepan, that not the least foulness 
may ^1 on the flower. They must be served very white, and rather 
crisp, but still sufficiently done. Time, twenty-five minutes or more. 

678. In White Sauce. — Half boil it, then cut it into handsome 
pieces, and lay them in a stewpan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a 
little salt, and a dust of white pepper; simmer half an hour, then put 
a little cream, butt^, and flour; shake and simmer a few minutes, 
and serve. 

679. Cattliplower Omelet (American). — ^Take the white part of 
a boiled cauliflower after it is cold, and chop it very small, and mix 
with it a sufficient quantity of well-beaten egg, to make a very thick 
batter, then fry it in iresh butter in a small pan, and send it to table 
hot. 

680. Fried (American). — Having laid a fine cauliflower in cold 
water for an hour, put it into a pot of hot water that has been slighdy 
salted (milk and water will be still better), and boil it twenty-five 
minutes, or till the large stalk is perfectly tender, then divide it 
equally into small tuffs, and spread it on a dish to cool. Prepare a 
sufficient quantity of batter, made in the proportion of a table-spoonful 
of flour, and two table-spoonsful of milk to each egg ; beat the eggs 
very light, then stir into them the flour and milk alternately, a 
spoonful of flour and two spoonsful of milk at a time. When the 
cauliflower is cold, have ready some fresh bultex vo. ^l^vciv^jwx^^h^x 

a clear £re. When it has come to a boW, axv^ Va& ^oxvfc \>\^J^^^^^K^ 
each tuft of c&uMower twice into the WUct, li.'tA irj ^^'Oi. ^Xxi^ 



190 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



brown ; send them to table hot. Brocoli may be fried in this 
manner, 

Brocoli. 

651. Cat the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off 
them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter 
time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water, Serve 
with or without toast* 

An Excellent Wat op Boilino Cabbage. 

682. Having trimmed the cabbage, and washed it well in cold water 
(examine the leaves to see that no insects are lurking among them), 
cut it almost into quarters, but do not divide it entirely down at the 
stem, which should be cut olOT just below the termination of the leaves. 
Let it lie an hour in a pan of cold water. Have ready a potfol of 
boiling water, seasoned with a small tea-spoonful of salt. Put the 
cabbage into it-, and let it boil for an hour and a half, skimming it 
occasionally. Then take it out ; put it into a colander to drain, and 
when all the hot water has drained off, set it under the hydrant. Let 
the hydrant run on it till the cabbage has become perfectly cold all 
through. If you have no hydrant, set it under a pump, or keep 
pouring cold water on it from a pitcher. Then, having thrown out 
all the first water, and washed the pot, fill it again, and let the second 
water boil. During this time the cabbage under the hydrant will be 
growing cold. Then put it on again in the second water, and boil it 
two hours, or two and a half. Even the thickest part of the stalk 
must be perfectly tender all through. When thoroughly done, take 
up the cabbage, drain it well through the colander, pressing it down 
with a broad ladle to squeeze out all the moisture ; lay it in a deep 
dish, and cut it entirely apart, dividing it into quarters. Lay some 
bits of fresh butter among the leaves, add a little pepper, cover the 
dish, and send it to table hot. — (^Miss Leslie — a great improvement.) 

Beans. 

683. To Boil Broad Beans. — ^Boil tender with a bunch of parsley, 
which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork 
must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. Time, twenty to 
twentjT'SYe minutes. 

684, Bboajd Beans Mashet).—- T&Va old \)iTQ«A\^«ajcL«^ boil them for 
one hour, mash them tlirougla. a coaia^ »v«^fe, wA mYx^^v^ ^^\&.\« 



PEAS. I9t 

little batter, pepper, and salt. Fat the mash into a hot basin ot 
mould, and torn it out before serving. 

685. Windsor Beans, Fricasseed. — ^When grown large, but not 
mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot ; just 
heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do 
not use them for this dish. 

686. French Beans. — ^To BoiL.-^String, and cut them into four or 
eight ; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the 
saucepan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done 
serve them immediately, to preserve the green colour. Or when half- 
done drain the water off, and put them into two spoonsful of broth 
strained ; and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to finish doing them. 

687. To Stew French Beans. — ^Boil the French beans (as at par. 
686). Make a rich clear gravy, well flavoured ; drain the beans perfect- 
ly dry, and put both into a stewpan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour 
or twenty minutes ; serve hot. Peas may also be stewed in this way. 

688. Haricots Blancs.— These beans, so much used in France, are 
dressed exactly like the old peas (691) ; but the flavour is not gene- 
rally liked in this country. 

Peas. 

689. To Boil. — Should be young and of a good sort. They must 
not be overdone, nor in much water. Boil some mint with them, and 
chop it to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with them. If 
either too young or too old, a little sugar boiled with them is an im- 
provement. Time, about fifteen minutes. 

690. To Stew Green Peas. — ^Take a quart of peas, three cabbage 
lettuces cut small, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the 
size of an egg (and a slice of raw ham, if yon like), an onion stuck 
with cloves ; let them stew gently till the peas are half-done, then 
add a pint of good gravy ; when stewed, thicken with flour and butter, 
the yolks of two eggs, and a teacupful of cream. Keep stirring after 
the eggs are in, or it will curdle. Some think a tea-spoonful of whiio 
powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but then 
there will be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint, and 
stew in them. 

691. To Stew Old Peas. — Steep them in water all night, if not 
fine boilers ; otherwise half an hour would do ; put them into ^qAax^y^x. 
enough to cover them, with a good bit of buU^x, ox Ob -^Nfc^^ ^1 \i«*i^ «* 

poiJk, Stew them yery gently till tbe peaa we *Q^ %sA^^'saft»^>^ 



193 ENGLISH COOKEBT. 



tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serre them 
round the meat. 

MnSHROOMS. 

692. To Stew Browv. — Peel the mushrooms, and cat off the end of 
the stalk, then cut them into four or six, according to their siu,.«dd 
a good deal of pepper and salt, with a veiy smaU quantity of wefter ; 
stew them in an earthen pipkin three or foor hours as slow as possible ; 
put sippets in the dish. Thej will keep sereral days, but should he 
done as soon as gathered. 

693. To Stbw Buttons Whttb^ — ^Peel some mushrooms, aiiul eat 
off the end of the stalk, pat them in a stewpan withs(Hne milk, a little 
cayenne pepper, and salt ; let them stew gently, and thicken with fionr 
and batter. 

Another and better Reeeqtt — ^Peel some mushrooms, sprinkle them 
with a little pepper aad salt, and lay them in a stewpan ; set them on 
a stove or by the side of the fire to draw the liquor from them,, then 
add cream sufficient to cover them, or a. little milk thickened with 
butter and flour ; give them a boil up. Serve with or without sippets 
round the dish. 

694. MusHBOOM Powder. — Take the thickest, largest buttons you 
can get, peel them, cut off tbn decayed end, but do not wash them ; 
spread them separately on pewter dishes, and set them in a slow oven 
to dry ; let the liquor dry up into the mushrooms ; it makes the powder 
stronger, and let them continue in the oven till they will powder. 
Then pound them in a marble mortar, and sift them through a fine 
sieve, with a little cayenne pepper and pounded maee. Bottle and 
keep it in a dry place. 

69.5. BcTTEBED Mu8HROOMS.--7Bub some large button mnshreoms 
with a piece of flannel dipped in salt, and dry them carefully with aelo^ : 
with two teacupsful of buttons thus cleansed, put thre^ quarters of an 
ounce of fresh butter into a strong saucepan, shake it over the fire till 
thoroughly melted, and continue to shake the saucepan, to prevent 
burning, for five minutes; then throw in some salt and pepper, and, if 
liked, a little mace pounded fine. Stew them till tender, and serve. 

696. Mushrooms to Broil. — The largest and most open mushrooms 

are the best for this purpose, and the stalks should be ent short, 

then peel them and lay them on the heated bars of a gridiron (having 

rubbed the bars previously witht sueC). %^iki!^^ >^^xcL^vth. salt and 

pepper, and wh«Q done rub aUU\e col^^onxttot -oxA^ «xl^^^«l "Qqssb^ 



CUCCTHBEBS. 19S 



and serve on a hot dish. They will begin to steam when done enough. 
If preferred on a toast, prepare them as above, and set them on a 
battered toast in the Dutch oven, spreading batter on the top of them 
before serving. 

697. A FuBEB OF Mushrooms. — ^Peel the moshrooms and cut off the 
stems. Squeeze the juice of half a large lemon into a stewpan with a 
little water ; put in the heads and stew them till tender ; drain oat the 
mushrooms and mince them to a pulp ; add a piece of butter and the 
minced mushrooms to the stew; stir on the fire till the butter is melted^ 
and then add half a teacup of good gravy, and the same of cream ; 
when the pur^ is of a proper thickness, add pepper and serve. 

698. MusHHooxs TO Pot. — ^Bub either small flapped mushrooms 
or buttons with a new flannel and salt, and if moistened with the salt 
wipe them dry with a soft cloth. Put into a stewpan one and a quarter 
ounce of fresh butter, and a pint of mushrooms, a small tea-spoonful 
of salt, a salt-spooofbl of mace an d a little cayenne ; stew them till tender. 
When done drain them on a sloping dish, and when cold lay them 
(pressed down) in small pots. Pour clarified butter over them, and if 
intended to keep more than a week or two, it would be well to lay a 
paper over the butter when cold, and then pour over it a thick layer of 
melted suet. They should be stored in a cool but dry place. 

N.B. — ^The skins and stalks cut away from mushrooms should be 
carefully collected, and strewn over with salt in a jar or cup, then set by 
the fire to draw out the liquor, which should be flavoured with spice 
for present use as ketchup. 

CUCUMBEBS TO StEW. 

699. Pare, and then slice some cucumbers not too thin, put them 
into a stewpan with some onions and a little salt. Let them stew in 
their own liquor a little while, then drain all that away^ and put to 
them one anchovy, a little spice, some good gravy, and a little red 
wine or ketchup. When the anchovy is dissolved, thicken with flour 
and butter. 

Another. — Peel and cut cucumbers in quarters, take out the seeds, 
and lay them on a cloth to drain off the water. When they are diy, 
flour and fry them in fresh butter, let the butter be quite hot before 
putting in the cucumbers ; fry them brown, then with an egg-slice lay 
them on a sieve to drain the fat from them. If th^ IqaX^ \a %:^'^x^'^^^ 
. 0^ fry a few small or sliced onions to put mt\v \Xvcwi. ^WawcL $sx"8ccwi.^^ 
pat them into a stewpan with as much gca.-^ «i'^ v?i^ e»N^x vc»K«i 



IS4 

'Itrii ihiiFj iiTTiTiii iii riiiiiirr Tsieeovttiieeiieiimbeis w^ adice, 
thirkm tiie gncrr with. Sobt or bstter; gxre it a boO. vpi, seaai^ with 
pqiiwa^ aad siitr *n<^ P*^ ^ ^^ eacnmbas; as nan as warn diej are 
rea^ to aesreL The aborcv mhb e d Anm^aaerey mi^be called 
'^eaenmfaer amaBtf'* and is a (k f uwriie aaoee with Iamb or nattao- 
endcta,, stewed nnap-ateaka^ Ac; fiirthe latter a diini part of onioiis 
be ^Wf^ to the eneoiBbers. 



S(»BKXL — To Sxawv F(«. FaiCASDKAir Jjn> Boast BCkaxl 

TOOL Wdtit the aorrel and pat it into a stXrer Tessdl, oratme jai; with 
oo nuBB water than hang» ta the leares; mrnwnfr it as akvwlj as 
pooBhle^ aad whei done enoa^ add a bit (tf batter and beat it w<^ 



To Far Mmaam^ ^a cr SrkwwoKDSBxsm. 

7IH. CleaB. and drj a good ({nanti^<rf'^tBa^IeaTC% two Wrge hand- 
fids of paniejv n^ * bandfaf ci green onians; diop the panlej and 
ODumsy and spaahle dben among Ae spinadi ; let AcB an OB to stew 
wxdi9QaBemk,.aadab&<rf'batfeertibeaBe<rf'awafatat; shake the pan 
whi^i it begins to grow wazm, aad let it be dos^ coTered orer a slow 
stoTe tin done enoagh. It is served with ^ces of broiled ealTs lirer, 
•maT! rashers c^ bacon, and eggs Med; the last on the herbs, the others 
in a separate dish. 

To Bon. TuEHF Tops. 

702. Gather joang tnmip tops in the spring wash and drain well, pat 
them into plentj of boiling water, with a little salt ; boil for twenty 
mioates, or a little longer ; then take them ont and serre plain after 
draining them, or chop them fine, and mix them with a little batter, 
pepper, and salt. 

KEITI.KS ASO DA2n>ELIOSB. 

703. These, gathered before thej are in flower, maj be dressed like 
tnmip tops, and served on toast like spinach, and are a valuable and 
wholesome addition to the list of vegetables. 

To DaESS Tomatoes. 

704. Boil them in a saucepan of boiling water for ten minutes, 
drain them, and either serve whole or mashed up, with a little pepper 
Bad Bait, or roast them in a Dutch oven, taking care to turn them, and 

Berre, A little beef grayy i7U\i a &\iaA,o^ \a ucl Yai^\Q^«^^\^ to the 
mjubed toioAtOM. 



SALAI>S. 195 

Hop Tops Serted as Asparagus (exeeUenty. 

705. Break off the young shoots of hops, tie them in bundles, boil 
them with a little meat in the water for twenty minutes. Serre as 
asparagus. The shoots of asparagus-kale may be boiled in the 
same way. 

Grebn Indian Corn (as a Vegeiahky, 

706. After remoying the sheath and fibres from Indian com or 
maize, it should be boiled for half an hour in water, and well salted. 
Serve as asparagus. Or, the corns may be taken out when done, 
and finished off as green peas, with a little butter in the pan. 

To Crisp and Fry Farslst. 

707. Wash and drain some sprigs of young parsley, and shake 
them in a cloth till well dry. Lay them on paper in a Dutch oven, 
and turn them frequently seven or eight minutes till crisp. If to be 
fried, when quite crisp add them to some lard or butter, which is boil- 
ing in a frying-pan. The moment they are again crisp, put them to 
drain on a cloth over a sieve. 

Sayoury Rice (a substitute for Vegetables^ 

708. Wash a breakfaist-cup of rice in cold water, and strain it. Hake 
a good beef gravy, well seasoned with one or two large onions ; when 
properly flavoured, strain off all the grease, add the rice, and let it 
stew slowly for about an hour, stirring it occasionally. When in 
season, add two tomatoes and a spoonful of Hervey*s sauce. The 
beef must be Med Kefore making the gravy. 



CHAP. XV.— SALADS, AND SALAD MIXTURES. 
Sect 1. — Ordinary English Salads. 

Lettuce. 

709. A bleached lettuce well-washed, and cut up with a few slices 
of beet-root, is the universal salad in this country; but by some 
people a few yery young onions or chives ar^ aidi^c^di. K^T\ws«k%^'vi!w 
vp, B mixture variously compounded (see pat. 1\%'^,\a -^q'qx^^ ^'^^s- ""^^ 
£uid mixed with the salad-spoon and fork. ■ ^^ 



194 ENGLISH COOKERT. 



Stew slowlj till they are tender. Take out the cucumbers with a slice, 
thicken the gravy with flour or butter ; give it a boil up, season with 
pepper and salt, and put in the cucumbers ; as soon as warm they are 
ready to serve. The above, rubbed through a sieve, may be called 
''cucumber sauce,'* and is a favourite sauce with lamb or mntton- 
eutlets, stewed rump-steaks, &c. ; for the latter a third part of onions 
may be added to the cucumbers. 

SoBREL. — To Stew, for FKiciLNDEAU AND Roast Meat. 

700. Wash the sorrel and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with 
no more water than hangs to the leaves; simmer it as slowly as 
possible, and when done enough add a bit of butter and beat it well. 

To Fbt Hbbbs, as in Staffordshire. 

701. Clean and dry a good quantity of spinach leaves, two large hand- 
fills of parsley, and a handful of green onions ; chop the parsley and 
onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach ; set them all on to stew 
with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut ; shake the pan 
when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow 
stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calf's liver, 
small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried ; the last on the herbs, the others 
in a separate dish. 

To Boil Turnip Tops. 

702. Gather young turnip tops in the spring, wash and drain well, pat 
tliem into plenty of boiling water, with a little salt ; boil for twenty 
minutes, or a little longer ; then take them out and serve plain after 
draining them, or chop them fine, and mix them with a little butter, 
pepper, and salt. 

Nettles and Dandelions. 

703. These, gathered before they are in flower, may be dressed like 
turnip tops, and served on toast like spinach, and are a valuable and 
wholesome addition to the list of vegetables. 

To Dress Tomatoes. 

704. Boil them in a saucepan of boiling water for ten minutes, 
drain them, and either serve whole or mashed up, with a little pepper 

and salt, or roast them in a Dutch oven, taking care to turn them, and 
■ serve, A Utile • beef gravy with & skaXo^ \a OiXi VQi^\Q^^\si^\ki to the 
auuhed tomatoea* 



SALADS. 195 



Hop Tops Sebyed as Asparagus (excellent), 

705. Break off the joang shoots of hops, tie them in handles, hoil 
them with a little meat in the water for twenty minntes. Serve as 
asparagus. The shoots of asparagas-kalo may he hoiled in the 
same way. 

Gbbbn Indian Corn (as a Vegetable), 

706. After removing the sheath and fibres from Indian com or 
maize, it should be boiled for half an hour in water, and well salted. 
Serve as asparagus. Or, the corns may be taken out when done, 
and finished off as green peas, with a little butter in the pan. 

To Crisp and Fry Parslet. 

707. Wash and drain some sprigs of young parsley, and shake 
them in a cloth till well dry. Lay them on paper in a Dutch oven, 
and turn them frequently seven or eight minutes till crisp. If to be 
fried, when quite crisp add them to some lard or butter, which is boil- 
ing in a frying-pan. The moment they are again crisp, put them to 
drain on a cloth over a sieve. 

Sayoury Kicb (a substitute for Vegetables'), 

708. Wash a breakfast-cup of rice in cold water, and strain it. Make 
a good beef gravy, well seasoned with one or two large onions j when 
properly flavoured, strain off all the grease, add the rice, and let it 
stew slowly for about an hour, stirring it occasionally. When in 
season, add two tomatoes and a spoonful of Hervey's sauce. The 
beef must be fried before making the gravy. 



CHAP. XV.— SALADS, AND SALAD MIXTURES. 
Sect 1. — Obdinaby English Salads. 

Lettuce. 

709. A bleached lettuce well-washed, and cut up with a few slices 
of beet-root, is the universal salad in this country; but by some 
people a few very young onions or chives ate ad^e^. KS«x\>€\Sk%^xx^ 
np, a mixture variously compounded (^see pat, 1\%\\a ^wtt^*^ ^'h^o. '"v'^^ 
and mixed with the salad-spooa and fork. 



196 SNOUSH COOKERY. 



Ekdits. 

710. Endiye is used in the same way as lettuce ; as also is mustaTd 
and cress, mixed with sliced radish and water-cress. 

Akotheb Salad. 

711. Add to the lettuce two beet-roots as at 655, a stick of celery 
cut small, radishes if in season, mustard and cress, and the white of a 
hard-boiled egg, of which the yolk has been used in the salad dressing. 
Sorrel is sometimes added. 

LoBSTEB Salad. 

712. Mix with some ordinary salad mixture (par. 718) the boiled 
eggs of a lobster ; then put in a salad-bowl a layer of salad herbs, 
lettuce being the best ; upon these strew pieces of the flesh and inte- 
rior of the lobster itself, with some of the eggs ; then another layer of 
herbs, upon which place more lobster and eggs, and upon this pour 
the salad dressing, taking care to run it gradually oyer the. whole; 
lastly, on the top of all place a few of the best leaves of the salad, 
shred very fine, and round the edge place some ornamental cuttings of 
cucumber, radishes, &c. 

713. Cbabs, Pkawns, Shbimps, Salmon, oi; any cold fish may be 
used in the same way as lobster (see 712). 

Sect. 2. — ^Fbench Salads. 

714. French salads are mixed with less care than is used by the 
English, inasmuch as the flavour of raw oil is not objected to by their 
consumers. The lettuce, endive, dandelion-lea'ses, or other salad- 
herbs, are merely chopped up and incorporated with a little tarragon, 
chervil, and garlic or shalot ; after which a mixture of half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a whole one of salt, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, 
and four of oil, are simply stirred together with a fork and poured over 
the salad. 

715. Cold Meat, Fowl, Fish, and Game, mixed up with the 
above salad in fine shreds or slices, and flavoured in the same way, are 
extensively used in France. 

Anotheb Fbench Salad. 

TJ6, Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley small ; put 
them into a howl with two table-spoon*?\i\ ol Vw\t^«t, ^tva ^i 5»i^ « 
little mustard and salt ; when ^eU iMMV»«ii<i \^^ A^^S^^^m^ %^ss&i^^f^ 



SALAD MIXTUBES. 197 



roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a time, not 
exceeding two or three inches long ; shake them in the dressing, and 
then add more; but cover the bowl close, and let the salad be 
prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, 
and a few slices of the fat of the meat. 

Salad Mayonaise. 

717. Beat up well the yolks of two eggs, mix and pour in salad oil 
and a few drops of vinegar until there is sufficient sauce, and it is the 
consistency of thick cream. Cut slices of cold meat or fowl, and 
divide in pieces with cold boiled eggs and the hearts of fine lettuces 
laid in the dish. Then pour over it all the sauce. 

Sect. 3. — ^Receipts fob Salad Mixtxtbes. 

English Salad Mixtitbe. 

718. Beat a raw egg with a salt-spoonful of salt until it is 
thoroughly smooth, then incorporate with it a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, made rather thicker than usual. When these are quite smooth, 
add by degrees one, two, or three table-spoonsful, or even more, of 
good salad oil, taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg 
before adding more. This ought to make any quantity, up to a tea- 
cupful, of a tenacious mass, so thick that a tea-spoon will stand up in 
it, and as smooth as honey. Dilute it with vinegar till it assumes the 
consistence of thick cream. No salad mixture is so smooth and rich 
as this, and at the same time the original oily flavour is completely 
lost, from the raw egg converting the oil into an emulsion. A little 
anchovy may be added if desired. 

Another. — ^Boil an egg hard, take the yolk after it is cold, and mix 
it up smoothly with a litttle cream, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Another. — ^Take the yolk of a hard boiled egg, rub it down with a 
spoonful of dry mustard, a little salt, and a floury potato well washed 
and boiled. Then add a spoonful of good oil, another of cream, and, 
when thoroughly and smoothly incorporated, add about a spoonful ^of 
Tinegar. 

Another. — ^The yolk of a raw egg, two and a half table-spoonsful 
of salad oil, on^ flat tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, one^ot tea- 
spoonfiil of salt, half a tea-spoonful oi btwro. ^m^%^^% ^ '^n.>^»' 
cayenne pepper, one and a half table-8pooTi?v!\ oi VvDkSi.%«t» '^SV^ «v 
^Mbould he gradually and thoroughly mV2L<&^ ^^ V>aft "5^5^ ^^ ^^ 



193 ENGLISH COOKERT. 



tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serre tliem 
round the meat. 

Mushrooms. 

692. To Stew Bsowv.^Peel the mushrooms, and cut off the end of 
the stalk, then cat them into four or six, according to their size^^dd 
a good deal of pepper and salt, with a very small quantity of water ; 
stew them in an earthen pipkin three or four hoars as slow as possible ; 
put sippets in the dish. They will keep sereral days, hut fdionld he 
done as soon as gathered. 

693. To Stbw Buttons WHiTEb — ^Feel some mnshrooms, aad eat 
off the end of the stalk, pat them in a stewpan with some milk, a little 
cayenne pepper, and salt ; let them stew gently, and thickeo with fionr 
and butter. 

Another and bettw Recent — ^Peel some mushrooaiSy sprinkle them 
with a little pepper aad salt, and lay them in a stewpan ; set them on 
a store or by the side of the fire to draw the liquor from them,, then 
add cream sufficient to cover them, or a little milk thiek^ned with 
butter and flour ; give them a boil up. Serve with or without sii^ts 
round the dish. 

694. MusHBOOM Powder. — Take the thickest, largest buttons you 
can get, peel them, cut off thn decayed end, but do not wash them ; 
spread them separately on pewter dishes, and set them in a dow oven 
to dry ; let the liquor dry up into the mushrooms ; it makes the powder 
stronger, and let them continue in the oven till they will powder. 
Then pound them in a marble mortar, and sift them through a fine 
sieve, with a little cayenne pepper and pounded mace. Bottle and 
keep it in a dry place. 

69.5. Buttered MusHROOMS.-^Bub some large button moshreoms 
with a piece of flannel dipped in salt, and dry them carefully with a <doth : 
with two teacupsful of buttons t^us cleansed, put thre^ quarters of an 
ounce of A:esh butter into a strong saucepan, shake it o-ver the fire till 
thoroughly melted, and continue to shake the saucepan, to prevent 
burning, for five minutes; then throw in some sah and pepper, and, if 
liked, a little mace pounded fine. Stew them till tender, aad serve. 

696. Mushrooms to Broil. — The largest and most open mushrooms 

are the best for this purpose, and the stalks should be cut short, 

then peel them and lay them on the heated bars of a gridiron (having 

rubbed the bars previously witb suet*). ^pi^Tik\% ^^«lEL^vtb. salt and 

pej^r, and when done rub a Utile co\3L\ra!tt«t -osi^^ «aAc{s«i S>qssb^ 



CUCUHBEBS. 19S 

and serye on a hot dish. They will begin to steam when done enough. 
If preferred on a toast, prepare them as above, and set them on a 
bnttered toast in the Dutch oyen, spreading butter on the top of them 
before serving. 

697. A FuBBB OF Mushrooms. — ^Peel the mushrooms and cut off the 
stems. Squeeze the juice of half a large lemon into a stewpan with a 
little water ; put in the heads and stew them till tender ; drain out the 
mushrooms and mince them to a pulp ; add a piece of butter and the 
minced mushrooms to the stew; stir on the fire till the butter is melted^ 
and then add half a teacup of good gravy, and the same of cream ; 
when the pur^ is of a proper thickness, add pepper and serve. 

698. MuSHBooxs TO Pot. — ^Rnb either small flapped mushroom^ 
or buttons with a new flannel and salt, and if moistened with the salt 
wipe them dry with a soft cloth. Put into a stewpan one and a quarter 
ounce of fresh butter, and a pint of mushrooms, a small tea-spoonful 
of salt, a salt-spoonful of mace and a little cayenne ; stew them till tender. 
When done drain them on a sloping dish, and when cold lay them 
(pressed down) in small pots. Pour clarified butter over them, and if 
intended to keep more than a week or two, it would be well to lay a 
paper over the butter when cold, and then pour over it a thick layer of 
melted suet. They should be stored in a cool but dry place. 

N.6. — ^The skins and stalks cut away from mushrooms should be 
carefully collected, and strewn over with salt in a jar or cup, then set by 
the fire to draw out the liquor, which should be flavoured with spice 
for present use as ketchup. 

CUGUMBEBS TO StEW. 

699. Fare, and then slice some cucumbers not too thin, put them 
into a stewpan with some onions and a little salt. Let them stew in 
their own liquor a little while, then drain all that away, and put to 
them one anchovy, a little spice, some good gravy, and a little red 
wine or ketchup. When the anchovy is dissolved, thicken with flour 
and batter. 

Another, — ^Peel and cut cucumbers in quarters, take out the seeds, 
and lay them on a cloth to drain off the water. When they are diy, 
flour and fry them in fresh butter, let the butter be quite hot before 
putting in the cucumbers ; fry them brown, then with an egg-slice lay 
them on a sieve to drain the fat from them. If th^ 1«£X^ Sa ^-^•^'s^'fe^ 
. of, fry a few small or sliced onions to put. mt\i \\vcitk. ^Wsi^sa \\^vwft.^ 
pat them into a stewpan with as xnuch gca.Tj ^& N?i^ toN«t ^^^^si. 



194 ENGLISH COOKEBT. 



Stew slowlj till thej are tender. Take out the cncambers with a slice, 
thicken the gravj with flour or butter ; giye it a boil up, season with 
pepper and salt, and put in the cucumbers ; as soon as warm thej are 
ready to senre. The above, rubbed through a sieve, maj be called 
« cucumber sauce,*' and is a fayourite sauce with lamb or mutton- 
cutlets, stewed rump-steaks, &c. ; for the latter a third part of onions 
may be added to the cucumbers. 

SoBREL. — ^To Stew, fob Fbicandeau and Hoast Meat. 

700. Wash the sorrel and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with 
no more water than hangs to the leaves; simmer it as slowlj as 
possible, and when done enough add a bit of butter and beat it welL 

To Fbt Hebbs, as in Staffobdshibb. 

701. Clean and dry a good quantity of spinach leaves, two large hand- 
fuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions ; chop the parsley and 
onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach ; set them all on to stew 
with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut ; shake the pan 
when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow 
stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calf's liver, 
small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried ; the last on the herbs, the others 
in a separate dish. 

To Boil Tcbnip Tops. 

702. Gather young turnip tops in the spring, wash and drain well, pat 
tliem into plenty of boiling water, with a little salt ; boil for twenty 
minutes, or a little longer ; then take them out and serve plain after 
draining them, or chop them fine, and mix them with a little butter, 
pepper, and salt. 

Nettles and Dandelions. 

703. These, gathered before they are in flower, may be dressed like 
turnip tops, and served on toast like spinach, and are a valuable and 
wholesome addition to the list of vegetables. 

To Dbess Tomatoes. 

704. Boil them in a saucepan of boiling water for ten minutes, 
drain them, and either serve whole or mashed up, with a little pepper 
aDd salt, or roast them in a Dutch oven, taking care to turn them, and 

serve, A Utile . beef gravy wit^ a B\ia\o\> \a axL Vm^xor^^TCL*;^^ ta the 
2Sghed tomatoe». 



SALADS. 195 



Hop Tops Served as Astxraqv8 (excellent), 

705. Break off the young shoots of hops, tie them in bundles, boil 
them with a little meat in the water for twenty minutes. Serve as 
asparagus. The shoots of asparagus-kale may be boiled in the 
same way. 

Gabbn Indian Corn (as a Vegetable'), 

706. After removing the sheath and fibres from Indian com or 
maize, it should be boiled for half an hour in water, and well salted. 
Serve as asparagus. Or, the corns may be taken out when done, 
and finished off as green peas, with a little butter in the pan. 

To Crisp and Fry Parslkt. 

707. Wash and drain some sprigs of young parsley, and shake 
them in a cloth till well dry. Lay them on paper in a Dutch oven, 
and turn them frequently seven or eight minutes till crisp. If to be 
fried, when quite crisp add them to some lard or butter, which is boil* 
ing in a frying-pan. The moment they are again crisp, put them to 
drain on a cloth over a sieve. 

Savoury Rice (a substitute for Vegetables'). 

708. Wash a breakfast-cup of rice in cold water, and strain it. Make 
a good beef gravy, well seasoned with one or two large onions ; when 
properly flavoured, strain off all the grease, add the rice, and let it 
stew slowly for about an hour, stirring it occasionally. When in 
season, add two tomatoes and a spoonful of Hervey's sauce. The 
beef must be fried l^efore making the gravy. 



CHAP. XV.— SALADS, AND SALAD MIXTURES. 
Sect 1. — Ordinary English Salads. 

Lettuce. 

709. A bleached lettuce well-washed, and cut up with a few slices 
of beet-root, is the universal salad in this country; but by some 
people a few very young onions or chives ate &d^e^, K^«t\i€«v^j,^xNX 
vp, a mixture rariously compounded (see pat. 1\ft'^/\^ ^wtt^"^ ^'^^^^ *"^^ 
and mixed with the aalad-spoon and fork. ■ 



196 SNOUSH COOKERY. 



Ekdits. 

710. Endiye is used in the same way as lettuce ; as also is mnstard 
and cress, mixed with sliced radish and water-cress. 

Akothbb Salad. 

711. Add to the lettuce two beet-roots as at 655, a stick of celery 
cut small, radishes if in season, mustard and cress, and the white of a 
hard-boiled egg, of which the yolk has been used in the salad dressing. 
Sorrel is sometimes added. 

LoBSTEB Salad. 

712. Mix with some ordinary salad mixture (par. 718) the boiled 
eggs of a lobster ; then put in a salad-bowl a layer of salad herbs, 
lettuce being the best ; upon these strew pieces of the flesh and inte- 
rior of the lobster itself, with some of the eggs ; then another layer of 
herbs, upon which place more lobster and eggs, and upon this pour 
the salad dressing, taking care to run it gradually oyer the. whole; 
lastly, on the top of all place a few of the best leaves of the salad, 
shred very fine, and round the edge place some ornamental cuttings of 
cucumber, radishes, &c. 

713. Crabs, Fbawns, Shbimps, Salmon, oi; any cold fish may be 
used in the same way as lobster (see 712). 

Sect. 2. — ^French Salads. 

714. French salads are mixed with less care than is used by the 
English, inasmuch as the flayour of raw oil is not objected to by their 
consumers. The lettuce, endive, dandelion-lea-ftes, or other salad- 
herbs, are merely chopped up and incorporated with a little tarragon, 
cheryil, and garlic or shalot ; after which a mixture of half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a whole one of salt, two table-spoonsful of yinegar, 
and four of oil, are simply stirred together with a fork and poured over 
the salad. 

715. Cold Meat, Fowl, Fish, and Game, mixed up with the 
above salad in fine shreds or slices, and flavoured in the same way, are 
extensively used in France. 

Another French Salad. 

716, Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley small ; pat 
them into a howl with two table-spooTi*?\i\ ol Vvcit^w, ^wa ^1 <svl^ « 
Jitde mnstard and salt j when well 1^'^^«^^^ ^JOljI >tt^ A^-^t^sa^ %^ss&J4.^f^ 



SALAD MUSLTUBES. 197 



roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a time, not 
exceeding two or three inches long ; shake them in the dressing, and 
then add more; but cover the bowl close, and let the salad be 
prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, 
and a few slices of the fat of the meat. 

Salad Mayonaise. 

717. Beat up well the yolks of two eggs, mix and pour in salad oil 
and a few drops of vinegar until there is sufficient sauce, and it is the 
consistency of thick cream. Cut slices of cold meat or fowl, and 
divide in pieces with cold boiled eggs and the hearts of fine lettuces 
laid in the dish. Then pour over it all the sauce. 

Sect. 3. — ^Receipts fob Salad Mixtubes. 

English Salad Mixtube. 

718. Beat a raw egg with a salt-spoonful of salt until it is 
thoroughly smooth, then incorporate with it a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, made rather thicker than usual. When these are quite smooth, 
add by degrees one, two, or three table-spoonsful, or even more, of 
good salad oil, taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg 
before adding more. This ought to make any quantity, up to a tea- 
cupful, of a tenacious mass, so thick that a tea-spoon will stand up in 
it, and as smooth as honey. Dilute it with vinegar till it assumes the 
consistence of thick cream. No salad mixture is so smooth and rich 
as this, and at the same time the original oily flavour is completely 
lost, from the raw egg converting the oil into an emulsion. A little 
anchovy may be added if desired. 

Anodier. — ^Boil an egg hard, take the yolk after it is cold, and mix 
it up smoothly with a litttle cream, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Another, — ^Take the yolk of a hard boiled egg, rub it down with a 
spoonful of dry mustard, a little salt, and a floury potato well washed 
and boiled. Then add a spoonful of good oil, another of cream, and, 
when thoroughly and smoothly incorporated, add about a spoonful of 
Tinegar. 

Another, — ^The yolk of a raw egg, two and a half table-spoonsful 
of salad oil, an&Jlat tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, on^Jiat tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of biowo. voL<^«t^ ^ \^\.>Na 
cayenne pepper, one and a half table-spooiifviLV oi NVasi.^«t» 'IS^a «Cw 
^Mbould be gradually and thoroughly mlxfiai ^\\l \>aft 1^5^ ^"^ ^* 



196 SNOUSH COOKERY. 



Endits. 

710. Endiye is used in the same way as lettuce ; as also is mnstard 
and cress, mixed with sliced radish and water-cress. 

Akotheb Salad. 

711. Add to the lettuce two beet-roots as at 655, a stick of celery 
cut small, radishes if in season, mustard and cress, and the white of a 
hard-boiled egg, of which the yolk has been used in the salad dressing. 
Sorrel is sometimes added. 

LoBSTEB Salad. 

712. Mix with some ordinary salad mixture (par. 718) the boiled 
eggs of a lobster ; then put in a salad-bowl a layer of salad herbs, 
lettuce being the best ; upon these strew pieces of the flesh and inte- 
rior of the lobster itself, with some of the eggs ; then another layer of 
herbs, upon which place more lobster and eggs, and upon this pour 
the salad dressing, taking care to run it gradually oyer the. whole; 
lastly, on the top of all place a few of the best leaves of the salad, 
shred yery fine, and round the edge place some ornamental cuttings of 
cucumber, radishes, &c. 

713. Crabs, Fbawns, Shbimps, Salmon, oi; any cold fish maybe 
used in the same way as lobster (see 712). 

Sect. 2. — ^Fbench Salads. 

714. French salads are mixed with less care than is used by the 
English, inasmuch as the fiayour of raw oil is not objected to by their 
consumers. The lettuce, endive, dandelion -lea'ses, or other salad- 
herbs, are merely chopped up and incorporated with a little tarragon, 
chervil, and garlic or shalot ; after which a mixture of half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a whole one of salt, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, 
and four of oil, are simply stirred together with a fork and poured over 
the salad. 

715. Cold Meat, Fowl, Fish, and Game, mixed up with the 
above salad in fine shreds or slices, and flavoured in the same way, are 
extensively used in France. 

Anotheb French Salad. 

TJ6, Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley small ; put 
them into a howl with two table-spoon*?\i\ ol nVci^^m, ^tva ^1 <si» « 
little mustard and salt ; when well 1^'^^*^^^ «jQL!i \i^ A^^^x^sa^ %^ss&i^^f^ 



BALAD MIXTUBES. 197 



roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; pat in a few at a time, not 
exceeding two or three inches long ; shake them in the dressing, and 
then add more; but cover the bowl close, and let the salad be 
prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, 
and a few slices of the fat of the meat. 

Salad Mayonaise. 

717. Beat up well the yolks of two eggs, mix and pour in salad oil 
and a few drops of yinegar until there is sufficient sauce, and it is the 
consistency of thick cream. Cut slices of cold meat or fowl, and 
divide in pieces with cold boiled eggs and the hearts of fine lettuces 
laid in the dish. Then pour over it all the sauce. 

Sect. 3. — ^Receipts fob Salad Mixtubes. 

English Salad Mixtube. 

718. Beat a raw egg with a salt-spoonful of salt until it is 
thoroughly smooth, then incorporate with it a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, made rather thicker than usual. When these are quite smooth, 
add by degrees one, two, or three table-spoonsful, or even more, of 
good salad oil, taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg 
before adding more. This ought to make any quantity, up to a tea- 
cupful, of a tenacious mass, so thick that a tea-spoon will stand up in 
it, and as smooth as honey. Dilute it with vinegar till it assumes the 
consistence of thick cream. No salad mixture is so smooth and rich 
as this, and at the same time the original oily flavour is completely 
lost, from the raw egg converting the oil into an emulsion. A little 
anchovy may be added if desired. 

Anoiher. — ^Boil an egg hard, take the yolk after it is cold, and mix 
it up smoothly with a litttle cream, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Another, — ^Take the yolk of a hard boiled egg, rub it down with a 
spoonful of dry mustard, a little salt, and a floury potato well washed 
and boiled. Then add a spoonful of good oil, another of cream, and, 
when thoroughly and smoothly incorporated, add about a spoonful of 
Tinegar. 

Another, — ^The yolk of a raw egg, two and a half table-spoonsful 
of salad oil, one flat tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, one flat tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful oi biwrCL voL%«t^ ^ \^\.SN!^ 
cayenne pepper, one and a half table-spooii^viLV oi Vcafc^^t* ^5^^ ' 
^Mbould be gradually and thoroughly mV2L<&^ "vV^ VJafe "^^5^ ^^'^ 



196 SNOUSH COOKERY. 



Ekdits. 

710. Endiye is used in the same way as lettuce ; as also is mnstard 
and cress, mixed with sliced radish and water-cress. 

Akotheb Salad. 

711. Add to the lettuce two heet-roots as at 655, a stick of celery 
cut small, radishes if in season, mustard and cress, and the white of a 
hard-hoiled egg, of which the yolk has been used in the salad dressing. 
Sorrel is sometimes added. 

LoBSTEB Salad. 

712. Mix with some ordinary salad mixture (par. 718) the boiled 
eggs of a lobster ; then put in a salad-bowl a layer of salad herbs, 
lettuce being the best ; upon these strew pieces of the flesh and inte- 
rior of the lobster itself, with some of the eggs ; then another layer of 
herbs, upon which place more lobster and eggs, and upon this pour 
the salad dressing, taking care to run it gradually oyer the. whole; 
lastly, on the top of all place a few of the best leaves of the salad, 
shred very fine, and round the edge place some ornamental cuttings of 
cucumber, radishes, &c. 

713. Crabs, Fbawns, Shbimps, Salmon, oi; any cold fish maybe 
used in the same way as lobster (see 712). 

Sect. 2. — ^French Salad9. 

714. French salads are mixed with less care than is used by the 
English, inasmuch as the flayour of raw oil is not objected to by their 
consumers. The lettuce, endive, dandelion-lea-ftes, or other salad- 
herbs, are merely chopped up and incorporated with a little tarragon, 
chervil, and garlic or shalot ; after which a mixture of half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a whole one of salt, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, 
and four of oil, are simply stirred together with a fork and poured over 
the salad. 

715. Cold Meat, Fowl, Fish, and Game, mixed up with the 
above salad in fine shreds or slices, and flavoured in the same way, are 
extensively used in France. 

Anotheb French Salad. 

716, Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley small ; put 
them into a howl with two table-spooT\*^\i\ ol Vw\«i^«t, ^tva ^i^, ^l^ « 
little mustard and salt \ wlicn well ^1;v^^^'^'^l. «M> ^^ A^\S^«i»ik %^ss&i^«^ijL 



SALAD MUSLTUBES. 197 



roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; pat in a few at a time, not 
exceeding two or three inches long ; shake them in the dressing, and 
then add more; but cover the bowl close, and let the salad be 
prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, 
and a few slices of the fat of the meat. 

Salad Mayonaise. 

717. Beat up well the yolks of two eggs, mix and pour in salad oil 
and a few drops of vinegar until there is sufficient sauce, and it is the 
consistency of thick cream. Cut slices of cold meat or fowl, and 
divide in pieces with cold boiled eggs and the hearts of fine lettuces 
laid in the dish. Then pour over it all the sauce. 

Sect. 3. — ^Receipts fob Salad Mixtures. 

English Salad Mixture. 

718. Beat a raw egg with a salt-spoonful of salt until it is 
thoroughly smooth, then incorporate with it a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, made rather thicker than usual. When these are quite smooth, 
add by degrees one, two, or three table-spoonsful, or even more, of 
good salad oil, taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg 
before adding more. This ought to make any quantity, up to a tea- 
cupful, of a tenacious mass, so thick that a tea-spoon will stand up in 
it, and as smooth as honey. Dilute it with vinegar till it assumes the 
consistence of thick cream. No salad mixture is so smooth and rich 
as this, and at the same time the original oily flavour is completely 
lost, from the raw egg converting the oil into an emulsion. A little 
anchovy may be added if desired. 

Ano^ker, — ^Boil an egg hard, take the yolk after it is cold, and mix 
it up smoothly with a litttle cream, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Another, — ^Take the yolk of a hard boiled egg, rub it down with a 
spoonful of dry mustard, a little salt, and a floury potato well washed 
and boiled. Then add a spoonful of good oil, another of cream, and, 
when thoroughly and smoothly incorporated, add about a spoonful ^of 
Tinegar. 

Another, — ^The yolk of a raw egg, two and a half table-spoonsful 
of salad oil, one Jlat tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, one flat tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful oi biwu ^m^^^> ^ \«^^ 
eajrenne pepper, one and a half table-spooii^xjX oi nVel^^^c* '^SV^ «v 
^Mbould be gradually and thoroughly m\x»^ ^X^i V>aft ^^5^ ^^ ^* 



1^3 FKGLTSH COOKERY. 



then add the mnstard, salt, sugar, and pepper, adding the yinegar 
last ; it maj he thinned hy adding a very little milk. 

Or, In the absence of an egg, the oil maj be mixed with the mnstard 
and salt onlj ; but it takes a great deal of time to incorporate them 
properly. 

719. For French salad mixture, see (716). 



CHAP. XVI.— ON THE MAKING OP PASTRT. 

Sect. 1. — Genbbal Kemarks. 

720. Under the term pastry are comprehended all saronry pies, 
pasties, or patties, together with fruit and other sweet pies and tarts ; 
in fact, every thing which is confined by a paste made with flour and 
water, mixed also with some kind of fatty matter, such as butter, laril, 
suet, or dripping. For most purposes it is allowed by all cooks that 
butter is the best ; but as it is far the dearest, it is right, in economical 
families, to substitute lard or dripping for it, when it is possible to do 
so without an entire sacrifice of all the benefit afforded by the material 
for which they are substituted. It will, however, be found that for 
many purposes they may be used without disadvantage ; and as this 
is the case, receipts in which they are introduced will be found giveB 

n the following section ; they will be recommended for use where 
practicable, in the subsequent list of savoury pies, tarts, &c. 

721. The Utensils are only a pasteboard, rolling-pin, baking-tins 
or dishes, and ornamental cutters of various kinds. 

Sect. 2. — ^Receipts for Making Pastrt. 

Remarks. 

722. These receipts are collected together under this head, so that 
afterwards they may be referred to. Some of them are generally 
applicable, while others are only suited to one or two kinds of dishes. 
In all sorts of pastry it must be recollected that the handling is of the 
greatest importance, and that, however completely the proportions may 
be attended to, if the hand is heavy when it ought to be light, or if 

rolling 18 neglected, when it is recommended, ox vice wrsa, the cook 

cannot expect her paste to succeed. Beyoxid \K\^, \Xve \e\K^«t^\xa^ ^V 

the oven is next in importance', "b^t t\i\s t\ift coo\l \^ mot^ \^i.€^-3 \*w 



BABM Ain> SHORT CRUSTS. 199 

attend to than the precaution relative to the use of her hands, as its 
effects are more immediately apparent. 

Barm Crust. 

723. Of the various kinds of paste, harm crust is the plainest, and 
the most easily made; but it is not very generally approved of in 
flavour. 

724. To Make Barm Crust very Plain. — Mix together one pound of 
flour, a quarter of a pound of butter or lard, one table-spoonful of 
barm, and a little salt, with milk enough to make a paste. Let it 
stand in a moderately warm place till it rises, then roll and use 
as a crust, baking as quickly after as possible. 

Another Barm Crust (sufficient for three Tarts). — ^Take one pound of 
flour, three ounces of butter (or an ounce and ahalf of clarified dripping, 
and an ounce and a half of lard), the white and yolk of an egg well 
beaten, and one table-spoonful of yeast. Warm the butter in half a 
pint of new milk, let it stand till only lukewarm; mix all up together, 
and let the leaven stand to rise. Then roll the paste, cover the pies, 
and put them into the oven directly. (If you suspect the barm to be 
bitter, blow the ashes off a red-hot coal, and put it in.) 

Short Crust. 

725. Short crust should be made by weighing the proper quantity of 
flour and putting it into a basin, first taking ^rom the weight sufficient 
to fill the flour-dredge one-third full, then add to it all the dripping, 
lard, or butter which is to be used, and work it very lightly between 
the thumb and fingers till it is well mixed with the flour, and has the 
appearance of coarse meal. This mixing must be done very lightly, 
or the paste will be spoiled ; then add water or milk just sufficient to 
form it into a paste, and with the hands take it out of the basin, first 
dredging a little flour on the board, then work it a little with the 
fingers, not the heels of the hands ; roll it out three times lightly, and 
put it on the tart. 

726. An Economical Short Crust for Common Purposes. — "Weigh one 
pound of flour, and half a pound of mixed dripping and lard, or all 
dripping will do ; mix them together with the fingers while dr}', as 
described above, or, if the cook has a hot hand, mix it with a spoon or 
fork; then add just water enough to wet it and m&k^ ^^-^^'sXr.*^ ^OWn. 
oat three times. After coTcring the dish, -wet Wv^ "^?i^\.^^V(XvxsK^^ «t. 

ihe white of an egg, and sift crystaUiaeilL ox " ctxi^'^^ VoaxwV"' ^'^'S^' 



194 ENGLISH COOKERT. 



Stew slowlj till they are tender. Take out the cncnmbers with a slice, 
thicken the gravj with flour or butter ; give it a boil up, season with 
pepper and salt, and put in the cucumbers ; as soon as warm thej are 
ready to senre. The above, rubbed through a sieve, may be called 
*< cucumber sauce,*' and is a favourite sauce with lamb or mutton* 
cutlets, stewed rump-steaks, &c. ; for the latter a third part of onions 
may be added to the cucumbers. 

SoBSEL. — To Stew, fob Fbicandeau and Boast Meat. 

700. Wash the sorrel and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with 
no more water than hangs to the leaves; simmer it as slowly as 
possible, and when done enough add a bit of butter and beat it welL 

To Fbt Hebbs, as in Staffobdshibb. 

701. Clean and dry a good quantity of spinach leaves, two large hand- 
fuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions ; chop the parsley and 
onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach ; set them all on to stew 
with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut ; shake the pan 
when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow 
stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calf's liver, 
small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried ; the last on the herbs, the others 
in a separate dish. 

To Boil Tcbnip Tops. 

702. Gather young turnip tops in the spring, wash and drain well, pat 
tliem into plenty of boiling water, with a little salt ; boil for twenty 
minutes, or a little longer ; then take them out and serve plain after 
draining them, or chop them fine, and mix them with a little butter, 
pepper, and salt. 

Nettles and Dandelions. 

703. These, gathered before they are in flower, may be dressed like 
turnip tops, and served on toast like spinach, and are a valuable and 
wholesome addition to the list of vegetables. 

To Dbess Tomatoes. 

704. Boil them in a saucepan of boiling water for ten minutes, 
drain them, and either serve whole or mashed up, with a little pepper 
and salt, or roast them in a Dutch oven, taking care to turn them, and 

serve. A Utile ■ beef graTy wit^ a ehalot \a qxl Vm^xQr«^\&L<&^ ta the 
MUAsbed tomatoeB. 



SALADS. 195 

Hop Tops Sebyed as Asparjlqtjb (exceUent'), 

705. Break off the jonng shoots of hops, tie them in handles, hoil 
them with a little meat in the water for twenty minhtes. Serve as 
asparagus. The shoots of asparagas-kale maj he hoiled in the 
same waj. 

G&EBN Indian Corn (as a Vegetable), 

706. After removing the sheath and fibres from Indian com or 
maize, it should he boiled for half an hour in water, and well salted. 
Serve as asparagus. Or, the corns may be taken out when done, 
and finished off as green peas, with a little butter in the pan. 

To Ckisp and Prt Fabslet. 

707. Wash and drain some sprigs of young parsley, and shake 
them in a cloth till well dry. Lay them on paper in a Dutch oven, 
and turn them frequently seven or eight minutes till crisp. If to be 
fried, when quite crisp add them to some lard or butter, which is boil* 
ing in a frying-pan. The moment they are again crisp, put them to 
drain on a cloth over a sieve. 

Sayoubt Rice (a substitute for Vegetables'). 

708. Wash a breakfast-cup of rice in cold water, and strain it. Make 
a good beef gravy, well seasoned with one or two large onions ; when 
properly flavoured, strain off all the grease, add the rice, and let it 
stew slowly for about an hour, stirring it occasionally. When in 
season, add two tomatoes and a spoonful of Hervey's sauce. The 
beef must be fried before making the gravy. 



CHAP. XV.— SALADS, AND SALAD MIXTURES. 
Sect 1. — Obdinaby English Salads. 

Lettuce. 

709. A bleached lettuce well-washed, and cut up with a few slices 
of beet-root, is the universal salad in this country; but by some 
people a few very young onions or chives at^ aA^^^. KSxj«\i€>»st,^^iX 
up, a mixtare variously compounded Qsee pax* 1 V€^, \ft -^wjx^^ ^'^^st Sx^ 
And mixed with the salad-spooa and foik. 



196 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



Enditb. 

710. Endive is used in the same way as lettuce ; as also is mustard 
and cress, mixed with sliced radish and water-cress. 

Anotheb Salad. 

711. Add to the lettuce two beet-roots as at 655, a stick of celery 
cut small, radishes if in season, mustard and cress, and the white of a 
hard-boiled egg, of which the yolk has been used in the salad dressing. 
Sorrel is sometimes added, 

LoBSTEB Salad. 

712. Mix with some ordinary salad mixture (par. 718) the boiled 
eggs of a lobster ; then put in a salad-bowl a layer of salad herbs, 
lettuce being the best ; upon these strew pieces of the flesh and inte- 
rior of the lobster itself, with some of the eggs ; then another layer of 
herbs, upon which place more lobster and eggs, and upon this pour 
the salad dressing, taking care to run it gradually oyer the. whole; 
lastly, on the top of all place a few of the best leaves of the salad, 
shred very fine, and round the edge place some ornamental cuttings of 
cucumber, radishes, &c. 

713. Crabs, Pbawns, Shbimps, Salmon, oi; any cold fish may be 
used in the same way as lobster (see 712). 

Sect. 2. — ^French Salads. 

714. Prench salads are mixed with less care than is used by the 
English, inasmuch as the flavour of raw oil is not objected to by their 
consumers. The lettuce, endive, dandelion-lea-ves, or other salad- 
herbs, are merely chopped up and incorporated with a little tarragon, 
chervil, and garlic or shalot ; after which a mixture of half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, a whole one of salt, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, 
and four of oil, are simply stirred together with a fork and poured over 
the salad. 

715. Cold Meat, Powl, Fish, and Game, mixed up with the 
above salad in fine shreds or slices, and flavoured in the same way, are 
extensively used in France. 

Another French Salad. 

TJ6, Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley small ; pat 
them into a boirl with two table-spoonat^ oi ^xi^^m, qw^ <jkl ^l^ « 
iJttJe mustiurd and salt j when -well v^^«^^a. «ifiA. \if3 A<fc\Bt«5«b %^Tfij^<w^ 



BALAD MIXTURES. 197 



roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put id a few at a time, not 
exceeding two or three inches long ; shake them in the dressing, and 
then add more; but cover the bowl close, and let the salad be 
prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parslej, 
and a few slices of the fat of the meat. 

Salad Mayonaisb. 

717. Beat up well the yolks of two eggs, mix and pour in salad oil 
and a few drops of vinegar until there is sufficient sauce, and it is the 
consistency of thick cream. Cut slices of cold meat or fowl, and 
divide in pieces with cold boiled eggs and the hearts of fine lettuces 
laid in the dish. Then pour over it all the sauce. 

Sect. 3. — ^Receipts for Salad Mixtures, 

English Salad Mixture. 

718. Beat a raw egg with a salt-spoonful of salt until it is 
thoroughly smooth, then incorporate with it a tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, made rather thicker than usual. When these are quite smooth, 
add by degrees one, two, or three table-spoonsful, or even more, of 
good salad oil, taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg 
before adding more. This ought to make any quantity, up to a tea- 
cupful, of a tenacious mass, so thick that a tea-spoon will stand up in 
it, and as smooth as honey. Dilute it with vinegar till it assumes the 
consistence of thick cream. No salad mixture is so smooth and rich 
as this, and at the same time the original oily flavour is completely 
lost, from the raw egg converting the oil into an emulsion. A little 
anchovy may be added if desired. 

Another. — ^BoU an egg hard, take the yolk after it is cold, and mix 
it up smoothly with a litttle cream, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Another, — ^Take the yolk of a hard boiled eg^, rub it down with a 
spoonful of dry mustard, a little salt, and a floury potato well washed 
and boiled. Then add a spoonful of good oil, another of cream, and, 
when thoroughly and smoothly incorporated, add about a spoonful of 

rinegar. 

Another,— The yolk of a raw egg, two and a half table-spoonsful 
of salad oil, one Jlat tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, one Jlat tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of \itwnL «x3l%w, ^ \v\.>Nsk 
cayenne pepper, one and a half table-spoonfvA oi VvEkSi.%^^» ^^^b^a ww 
Mbould be gradually and thoroughly inbL<&d mVVj^ ^^ "Ij^J^ ^ ^ 



204 KXGLISH COOK£ILT. 



of floor into the preparation while boiling ; taking care, howeyer, not 
to pat more floar than the liquor can soak np. Stir with a wooden 
spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stewpan, and then 
take it off the fire. Next break an egg into this paste, and mix it 
well ; then break a second, which also mix ; do not put more egg^ 
than the paste can absorb, but jou most be careful not to make this 
preparation too liquid. It is almost certain that about five or six eggs 
will be wanted for the above quantity ; then form them en cJioux, by 
which is meant in the shape of a ball, an inch in circumference. As 
this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, patting the 
choux on a baking-sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order 
that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over 
as usual with the dorure or egg-wash, to which has been added a little 
milk. Fat them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the 
oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they wonld flatten, and all 
attempts to make them rise again would be found to be tueless ; next 
dry them. Sometimes they may be glazed ; at other times they may 
be sent up without being glazed. To detach them from the baking> 
sheet, apply the sharp edge of a knife, and take them off gently. 
Then make a small opening on the side, into which put^ with a tea- 
spoon, such sweetmeats as may be thought proper, and send them up 
dished en butsson. 

Franoifanb. 

743. This is a French paste used for tartlets or entremets. It is 
made by moistening two ounces of flour with a little milk, and heating 
the two together in a saucepan ; then add three or four eggs, and stir 
all together till cool enough to make up with the hand. 

744. Frangipane de Pomme-de-Terres, — Cook some potatoes by steam, 
take off the skin, beat them well in a mortar, then put them into a 
basin, add some eggs, a little butter, salt, rasped citron, some bitter 
macaroons, sugar or not according to taste, and use it as a paste to all 
sorts of entremets of pastry. 

Icing and Glaze for Tarts or Pufps. 

745. Beat the white of an egg, mix with it three or four onnces of 
finely-sifted sugar till it becomes white and glutinous ; then when the 
tarts, he, are ready, take them out of the oven, brash them over with 

this glaze, and return them fox a fevr i£diiu\ftaXo\i!w^^\^Ns&Mv%<asA 
that it does not become brown. 



MEAT, GAME, AKB FISH PIES. 205 

Or^ for common purposes, beat the jolk of an Qg^ and some melted 
butter well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over 
as they are put in the oven. 

746. To Glaze savoury pies and pasties, if they are required to 
look well, brush over the crust with the yolk of egg well beaten, 
before putting them in the oven. 



CHAP. XVII.— SAVOUBY PIES AND PUDDINGS, PATTIES, 

AND VOL-AU- VENTS. 

Sect. 1. — General Remabks. 

747. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than 
savoury pies, if properly made ; and they may be made so of a great 
variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and in that case 
there should be no suet put into any forcemeat that is used with them. 
If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make 
it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow, or if it is 
to be served in an earthen pie-dish, the meat, if beef, must be pre- 
viously stewed. The crusts used will be specified in each case, refcr- 
enee being made to the paragraph in the last chapter. 

Sect. 2.— Meat, Game, akd Pish Pies. 

Beep, Mutton, ob Lamb Pie. 

748. Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef that has fat 
and lean, or of the chops from a loin or neck of mutton ; wash it 
and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, 
rubbing them well in, adding a very little onion or shalot, chopped, 
and, if approved, a few pickled mushrooms. Set it by the side of 
a slow fire in a stewpot that will just hold it ; put to it a piece of 
butter, about two ounces, and cover it quite close ; let it just simmer 
in its own steam till it commences to shrink. When it is cold, add 
more seasoning, forcemeat, and boiled eggs*, wid, \1 \\. \&\si^ ^x^ 
>ur Bome gravy to it before baking ; but, \^ \l \a oxiVj Va croaJ^ ^a \^rx 

pat the gravy till after it is cold and in jeWy, CaH«^^<sattJB 



206 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



short cruRt, or puff paste (see pars. 725 and 732). Forcemeat maj 
be put both under ind over the meat, if preferred to balls. 

Bbef-bteak Fib. 

749. Prepare the steaks bj cutting into long strips, and when 
seasoned as above, and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish 
with paste round the edges : put a little water or gravy in the dish, 
and cover it with a good short crust or puff paste (see pars. 725 and 
732), which must be pressed down upon that part round the edge. 
A few oysters mixed with the beef are a great improvement, adding 
their liquor to the water or gravy. 

Veix Pib. 

750. Take some slices of a knuckle of veal ; lay them at the bottom 
of a pie-dish, with alternate layers of ham or bacon ; season between 
each layer with pepper, salt, and portions of hard-boiled eggs, cut 
in slices, between the meat. Fill up the dish in this way, then pour 
in some gravy made from the bones, with a little mushroom ketchup, 
and a very small quantity of Worcestershire sauce ; cover with short 
crust, or good puff paste, and bake. 

751. -A Richer Veal Pie. — Cut steaks from a knuckle of veal; season 
them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. 
Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. I/ay a 
puff paste on the ledge of the dish ; then put the meat, yolks of hard 
eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. 
Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and half fill the 
dish with stock made from the bones; cover, and when it is taken 
out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoons- 
ful of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up ; but first boil it 
up with a tea-spoonful of flour. 

Veal, ob CnicKBy, and Pabslet Pie. 

752. Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg^ 
from about the knuckle. Season them with salt ; scald some parsley 
that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry ; cut it a little, and 
lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in 
layers. Fill the dish with good stock, or gravy, seasoned, but not so 
high as to touch the crust. Cover it with short-crust or puff-paste 

(pars. 725 and 732), and bake. C\i\c\Lca m«5 \i^ ^^jS. ^^ skinned, 
and made in the same way. 



OIBLET FIE. 207 



Chicken, Book, ob Babbit Pie. 

753. Cut up two young fowls; season with white pepper, salt, a 
little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder, and also a little 
cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of hacon, 
forcemeat halls, and hard eggs hy turns, in layers. If it is to be baked 
in a dish, put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the time 
tt returns from the oven, have ready a gravy made of the knuckle 
of veal, or from a bit of the scrag with some shank-bones of mutton, 
seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and white pepper; put as much 
gravy as will fill the pie-dish ; but if made with a raised crust the 
gravy must be put in cold as jelly, clarifying it with the whites of two 
eggs after taking away the meat, and straining it through a fine lawn 
sieve. When rabbits are used instead of chicken, the legs must be cut 
short, and the ribs must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. 
Hooks must be skinned and put to soak in milk, taking care to remove 
the liver and back. They are then treated like the chicken described 
above. The crust should be of pufi*-paste (see par. 732). 

Peench Chicken Pie. 

754. Parboil a couple of chickens, put thA giblets in a small sauce- 
pan, and stew with water from the chickens lor gravy, add sweet herbs 
and mace ; when the chickens are cold, cut them up and lay them in 
a deep dish, line with puff* paste, pound some ham and tongue with 
the liver, and the yolks of six hard boiled eggs, make this forcemeat into 
balls and put among the chickens ; add butter rolled in flour. Cover 
the pie with puff-paste and bake; mushrooms chopped fine are an 
improvement, also a little cream. 

Green-ooose Pie. 

755. Bone two young green-geese of a good size, but first take away 
every plug, and singe them nicely ; wash them clean, and season them 
high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice; put one inside the 
other ; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards ; 
put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or 
without crust ; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep 
in the steam. It will keep long. Put on a short crust or puff paste 
(see pars. 725 and 732). 

GiBLET Pie. 
TS6, After very nicely cleaning geese ox d\3J^ \b\AsX%> %X«^ "^ 



208 ENGLISH GOOKEBY. 



with a small qnantitj of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs, till nearly done ; let them grow cold, and, if not enoii|^ 
to fill the dish, lay a beef, yeal, or two or three mutton steaks at 
bottom ; put the liquor of the stew in the dish with the aboTe, and 
cover with short crust or puff paste (see pars. 725 and 732). When 
the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced pota- 
toes added to it eat extremely well, and some people add to it slices |^ 
a] pie. 

Duck Pie. 

757. Cut off the wings and neck of a duck, boil it a quarter of an 
hour, cut it up while hot, save the gravy that runs from it ; then take 
the giblets, add anchovies, a little butter, a blade of mace, six black 
peppercorns, two onions, a bit of toasted bread, a bunch of herbs, and 
a little cayenne pepper. Stew them till the butter is melted, then add 
half a pint of boiling water, and let them stew till the giblets are 
tender; then strain it, and put the giblets into the pie. Let the 
gravy stand till cold, skim off the fat, and put it with what runs from 
the duck at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the duck, well seasoned 
with pepper and salt and a few lumps of butter, and cover with short 
crust or puff paste (see pars. 725 and 732). If geese are used instead 
of ducks, they must be boiled half an hour. Cold duck will do as well, 
if the skin is taken off, 

PiOEoy PiB. 

758. Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out ; in the 
former put a bit of batter, and, if approved, some parsley chopped with 
the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef-steak at the 
bottom of the dish, and the birds cut in half on it ; between every two, 
a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and, if there is any ham 
in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon ; it is a great improvement to 
the flavour. Season the gizzards and two joints of the wings, and put 
them in the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole made in the 
crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. Cover with 
puff paste (see par. 732). 

PHEASAirr, PaBTRIDGB, or GfiOUSE PiB IK A Bisn. 

T59, Tick and singe two pheasants, or fbur partridges or grouse; 
cnt off the legs at the knee ; season VitYiv^^i^^T, ^?^t,<iW^\%5i^arsley» 
tb^rtne, and mushroomB. I^y a Teal-steais. wA «. %\ms.^ ^i \»ssi. «x \ia& 



TKKISOK PASTT. 209 



bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good 
broth. Put puff paste on the ledge of the dish, «jid cover with the 
same ; hnah it orer witii egg, $aad bake an hour ; or place them in a 
raised emt aoeordiog to the diiecdons i^ren at par. 7^. 

To AIakb a Habb Pie. 

760. Take tiie fledioff the bones in as large pieces as yon can ; fey 
it over a slow fire in some batter, two shalots, and a bay leaf, for ten 
minutes. When It is cold, line the bottom of the pie with forcemeat ; 
season the hare with pepper and salt, lay it in the dish as close as 
possible, and pour over it the butter in which it was fried ; cover it 
with thin slices of fat bacon. When baked, take off the lid and serve 
with or without jelly. The forcemeat is made of half a pound of lean 
bee( the same of suet, with shalots, a handful of bread-crumb, and 
three eggs to bind it, season well with pepper and salt ; if the liver of 
the hare is good, it will add greatly to the thickness of it. 

Vbnisojt Pasty. 

761. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty ; but it must be beaten 
and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a iQne well-hung 
loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours in equal parts of rape, 
vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage 
to rub it well with sugar for two or three days ; and, when to be used, 
wipe it perfectly clean from it and the wine. 

762. To Pr^Mre Venwm for Pasty, — ^Take the bones out, then 
season and beat the meat ; lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour 
upon it soflne plain dxawn^beef gravy, but not a strong one $ lay tihe 
bones on the top, Iben set the jar in a bota-nnirie, or a saucepan of 
water over the fire, simmer three or four hours, then leave it in a cold 
place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in hand- 
some pieces on the dish; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, 
salt, or pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the 
remainder for the time of serving, if the ventson be thus prepared, it 
will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as 
is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. A 
mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much ; 
but, as above directed, tinroe or four hours in a slow oven will be quite 
sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will \)^i^t^Aan^^ l^>jd&Ki 
in a BhouMer or side, the meat must be cut \tv -^^ftcfift^ «2bi^\«».^^^o^ 

At between, that k nurf be ptopottlo&ed V> csiydki. ^fwsik ""irJ^ts^ 



210 ENGLISH OOOXEBT. 

breaking up the pasty to find it. Laj some pepper and salt at the 
bottom of the dish, and some batter ; then the meat nicely packed, that 
it may be sufficiently done, but not to lie hollow, or it will harden at the 
edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton; 
of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay batter on 
the yenison, and cover as well as line the sides of the dish with a thick 
crust of puff paste, but do not put one under the meat. Keep the 
remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into 
the middle by a funnel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It 
should be seasoned with pepper and salt 

MooK YsinsoN Pastt. 

763. Stew an ox-cheek for an hour and a half in some good stock; 
add vegetables and herbs ; when quite tender remove the meat from 
the bones of the cheek, and cut it in slices. Line a dish with pnff 
paste down the sides, and lay the slices in the dish, then strain the 
gravy and again put it in the stewpan, flavouring it with ketchup and 
half a tea-cupful of port wine. Pour it over the cheek, cover with 
paste, and bake. Should the meat be stewed in weak broth or water, 
some good gravy must be added to it afterwards. If carefully made, it 
is little inferior to a real venison pasty. 

Caxf*s Head Fib. 

764. Well soak half a calf's head, and boil half an hour, the tongue 
longer ; then cut the meat in pieces ; stew the bones with a little nuu:e, 
white pepper, or any thing that will make it good without colouring 
the liquor ; place at the bottom of the dish some parsley, ham, tongue, 
nnd pieces of boiled egg; then put some slices of the brains, which 
should be boiled rather hard ; add salt, and about two spoonsful of 
water, and cover with short crust. The liquor the bones are boiled in 
should be reduced till it is strong and of a nice flavour ; strain it, and 
while the pie is hot pour as much in as the dish will hold ; let it 
stand all night, and when wanted turn it out upside down, with parsley 
round. 

765. A Plainer Calf*8 Head Pie, — ^Boil a calTs head one hour; 
when perfectly cold cut it in slices ; have prepared some gravy, made 
&om two pounds of beef; let it stand till cold ; well mix some salt, 

pepper, mace, and Cayenne, then put «otcl^ aX >^ift>aQ\.\«ni ^^ \3ia ^le- 
dieh, then a lajex of calf's head, then t\i^ co\^ ^wrs^\N«».\Jw^tB^v«K 



EXCELLENT POBK PIES TO EAT COLD. 211 

^— ^^IW^— — — ^■^■^M^M^i^P^ I ■ ■ ■ B^— ^— ^M— ^» ■ ■■■■■! ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■— ^^W^— M^— , — 

and 60 fill up the dish with alternate layers, the last at the top being 
the tongue sliced ; then coyer with a good paste. 

Eoa JLSjy Bacon Pie to eat Cold. 

766. Steep a few thin slices of bacon all night in water, lay them in 
a pie dish ; beat eight eggs with a pint of cream, add pepper and salt, 
and poor it on the bacon ; cover it with a crust, and bake in a moderate 
oyen the day before you require it. 

Potato Pub. 

767. Skin some potatoes, cut them into slices, and season them; 
also some mutton, beef, pork, or yeal. Put layers of them and of the 
meat. Coyer with short crust. 

Another, — Put hashed veal or meat of any kind into a pie-dish with 
a good grayy, seasoned with pepper and salt ; oyer this add a layer of 
mashed potatoes, and brown it in the oven. 

A Herb Pie. 

768. Take lettuce, leeks, spinach, beet, and parsley, of each a hand- 
ful ; giye them a boil, chop them small, and have ready boiled one quart 
of groats with two or three onions in them ; put them in a pan with 
the herbs and a good deal of salt, one quarter to three quarters of a 
pound of butter, and a few apples sliced thin ; stew them a few minutes; 
fill either a dish or raised crust with the above ; one hour will bake it. 
If to be a cheap dish, dripping in a small quantity must be substituted 
for the butter. 

Veoetablb Pie. 

769. Lay steaks of mutton or lamb very wed seasoned at the bottom 
of a deep pie-dish, pile the dish high with cos lettuce cut as for salad^ 
a little onion chopped fine, a good handful of peas, scatter seasoning 
over the whole, cover with a crust and bake it. 

For Fish Pies see the Chapter on Fish. 

Sect. 3. — ^Raised Pies. 

770. Directions. — Kaise the crust as ordered at page 201, then fill 
with meat according to the annexed receipts, and cover; serve cold. 

"ExcELLEsrs IBoBX. Pies to 'BiAx Coi.t>« 
///• Baise a crast, according to directvoTis ^-^ca «»X. -^^^^'iK^'^^®*^ 



210 ENGLISH OOOKERT. 



breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the 
bottom of the dish, and some batter ; then the meat nicely packed, fhst 
it may be sufficiently done, but not to lie hollow, or it will harden at the 
edges. The yenison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton; 
of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay butter on 
the yenison, and cover as well as line the sides of the dish with a thick 
crust of puff paste, but do not put one under the meat. Keep tiie 
remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oren ; put it into 
the middle by a funnel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix welL It 
should be seasoned with pepper and salt 

MooK Venison Pastt. 

763. Stew an ox-cheek for an hour and a half in some g^ood stock; 
add vegetables and herbs ; when quite tender remove the meat from 
the bones of the cheek, and cut it in slices. Line a dish with puff 
paste down the sides, and lay the slices in the dish, then strain the 
gravy and again put it in the stewpan, flavouring it with ketchup and 
half a tea-cupful of port wine. Pour it over the cheek, cover with 
paste, and bake. Should the meat be stewed in weak broth or water, 
some good gravy must be added to it afterwards. If carefully made^ it 
is little inferior to a real venison pasty. 

Caxf*s Head Pie. 

764. Well soak half a calf's head, and boil half an hour, the tongue 
longer ; then cut the meat in pieces ; stew the bones with a little mace^ 
white pepper, or any thing that will make it good without colouring 
the liquor ; place at the bottom of the dish some parsley, ham, tongue, 
and pieces of boiled egg ; then put some slices of the brains, which 
should be boiled rather hard ; add salt, and about two spoonsful of 
water, and cover with short crust. The liquor the bones are boiled in 
should be reduced till it is strong and of a nice flavour ; strain it, and 
while the pie is hot pour as much in as the dish will hold ; let it 
stand all night, and when wanted turn it out upside down, with parsley 
round. 

765. A Plainer Calf*8 Head Pie. — ^Boil a cairs head one hour; 
when perfectly cold cut it in slices ; have prepared some gravy, made 
fivm two pounds of beef; let it stand till cold ; well mix some salt| 

pepper, mace, and Cayenne, then put «om^ aX\!tL^\»QX\«ni^^ i!&A^i»t 
disb, then a lajet of calf's YieaA, then ^^ <io\^ ^wrj^SJMso.'Cafe^va^v 



BBBF^fSnUJL PUmOENO. 813 



Vbal Fatties. 

776. Mince some veal that is not quite done with a little parsley, 
lemon-peel, a serape of natneg, aad a l^t of salt ; add a little cream 
and gravy, just to moisten the meat ; and,, if there is anj ham, scrape 
a little and add to it. Do not warm it till the patties are haked. 

TUKKET FaTTI»8. 

777. Mince some of the white meat, and with ^ated lemon, nutmeg, 
salt, a Tery little white pepper^ cream, and a very little butter warmed, 
fill the patties. 

For lobster and oyster patties, see pages 72-73. 

Yol->axi:'*Ybsts. 

778. A Yol-au-Yent Is a raised pie, made with very light and rich 
jmff paste (pars. 733 or 734), instead of that used for the raised pie, 
or it may be considered as an enlarged and highly-omaraented patty. 
Tliere is considerable art in making and baking these cases, as they 
are put into the oven without their contents, and then filled with them 
afterwards. The paste is made to line a fluted dish or tin, and baked 
till it is of a fine light brown ; but few cooks can understand how to 
make it without actual demonstration. Turbot and salmon are em- 
ployed for this dish, dressed up with cream, and come to table a second 
time eren with more approbation than in their ori^nal fomu 

Steak ok Eidnet Fuddinq. 

779w If kidooey, split and soak it, and season it with pepper and salt, 
which last -is aU that the steak will require; make a paste of siiet, 
fioar, and milk (see par. 738) ; roU it, and line a basin with some i 
put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round tho 
edge ; tie it up in a cloth, and boil a considerable time — that is, three 
or four hours. 

Beef-steak Fuddinq. 

780. Frepare some fine steaks as for beef-steak pie ; roll them with 
&t between, and if shred onion is approved add. ^"H^rjXvSJO^^vX^:^ -^ 
paste ofsaet, £onr, And milk in a basin (see '^t..1^%\ ^\A ^TvX.v^'Cas^k. 
roUB of steaks ; cover the basin with sl pastft^aa^ V^w^a.^^^^'^?*'^ 



214 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



keep the gravy in ; cover with a cloth tied close, and let the padding 
hoil slowly, bat for a length of time — say for four hours. 

Baked Beef-bteak Puddikq (TocHf-tn-a-Aofe). 

781. Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and floor ; lay a little of it at 
the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks prepared as above, and 
very well seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and 
bake it. 

Mdttow Pudding. 

782. Season with pepper, salt, and a bit of onion ; lay one layer of 
steaks at the bottom of the dish, and pour a batter of potatoes boiled 
and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over 
them ; then put in the rest of the steaks and batter ; and bake it. 
Batter with flour instead of potatoes eats well, but requires more egg, 
without which it is not so good. 

783. Anotker.^^Cnt slices off a leg that has been underdone, and put 
them into a basin lined with a fine suet crust (par. 738) ; season with 
pepper, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot, then cover, and boiL 

Venison Podding. 

784. Take steaks of fresh venison, season with salt and pepper, 
put into a pot with a little fresh butter, and stew in scarcely sufficient 
water to keep them from scorching ; when quite tender, cut the meat 
from the bones, and set it to cool. Save the gravy, and, when cold, 
carefully remove all the fat ; prepare a paste, three-quarters of a pound 
of beef suet to two pounds of flour. Roll it out thick, put the yenison 
in it, and pour over gravy to moisten it ; close over the paste to form 
a dumpling, tie in a pudding-cloth, and boil an hour, turning several 
times ; when done, dip into cold water, untie the cloth, and turn out 
the pudding. 

Beef-steak pudding may be made as above. 

Suet Pudding, 

785. Shred a pound of suet ; mix with a pound and a quarter of 
flour two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will 
make it; boil four hours. It eats well uext day, cut in slices and 

broiled. The outward fat of loina ot ii^<i\A b^ tq»X.Ws\, ^ti^^ ^Sc£(^ 
makes a more delicate pudding than suet. 



SWEET PASTRY. 215 



Lark Pudding. 

786. Lark pudding is an old-fashioned delicacy, and made with about 
six larks mixed with steak (see 780), and covered with paste as there 
directed. 

Spabrow Dumpling. 

787. Mix half a pint of good milk with three eggs, a little salt, and 
as much flour as will make it a thick batter. Put a lump of hutter 
rolled in pepper and salt into every sparrow, mix them in the batter, 
and tie them in a hasin with a cloth ; hoil them half an hour. Serve 
with melted hutter poured over. 

Potato Pudding with Meat. 

788. BoH them till fit to mash, rub through a colander, and make 
into a thick hatter with milk and two eggs ; lay some seasoned steaks 
in a dish, then some hatter, and over the last layer put the remainder 
of the hatter ; hake a fine hrown. 

Yorkshire Pudding* 

789. Mix five spoonsful of flour and a quart of milk and four eggs 
well heaten ; butter a shallow pan, and hake under the meat ; when 
quite hrown, turn the other side upwards and hrown that. It should 
he made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to tahle. It is 
a good plan to set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some 
minutes. 

Peas Pudding. 

790. Peas-pudding is made as follows : — Soak split peas for twelve 
hours in soft water, then tie them in a cloth, but not too tightly, or 
they will not have room to swell ; hoil them from three hours and a 
half to four hours, then take them out and mb them through a hair 
sieve, adding afterwards a little hutter and salt ; return them to the 
cloth, hoil again for half an hour, and serve. 



CHAP. XVIII.— SWEET PASTKY. 



iS£OT. I. — General ILesiilbl^^. 
79L Barm crust, short crust, and puff-past^ ax^ a3^^sJ^^i'5^x•^<5»R 

1 



21 G ENOLIflH OOOKBBT. 



articles bj some people ; the first kind being employed for the sake 
of the stomach, the second from economical motiyes when com- 
posed of dripping or lard, and the third hy those who cg —l t only 
their palates, without attending to the hitMMts of their boditt or 
parses. Under the head of sweet pastry are included all Idadt of 
fruits, whether fresh or preserved, which have any kind of baked 
crust attached to them ; whereas those which either have no crust, 
or when they hare it are boiled instead of being baked, are omiaHy 
denominated either puddings or sweets. The former definitioB will, 
therefore, comprehend all the articlefl induded in this sectioM. WtOt 
regard to the nse of lard, dripping, or butter for the paete used with 
them, there can be no doubt that butter, either fresh or salt. Is the 
best for the purpose ; and for puff-paste is not to be superseded, except 
perhaps by a very small quantity of lard mixed with it ; but for short 
crust, lard or dripping, or a mixture of the two, will answer well 
enough for many purposes-nmch as fruit tarts ; and the crust ao made 
is quite as wholesome, and Tery nearly as good, as when BMide of 
butter. (For icing these tarts, see page 204). 

Sect. 2. — ^Fruit Tarts. 

792. In using preserved fruits, it should be known that they are 
injured by the degree of baking required for the crust ; those that 
have been done with their full proportion of sugar need no baking ; 
and the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the frntt afterwards 
added ; or it may be put into a small dish or tart-pan, and. the 
covers may then be baked on a tin cut out according to taste, and put 
in the fruit when ready. Bottled fruits must be treated like fresh 
fruit. 

Ordinabt Apple Tart. 

793. Pare> quarter, and core the apples, and fill a pie-dish t^ ; put 
over them a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, with a little grated lemon- 
peel, or two cloves, or a little nutmeg. If the apples are mellow, add 
a table-spoonful of water ; then put on a short crust of puff-paste, and 
bake nearly an hour, (hy wipe the outside of the apples, then pare, 
quarter, and core them, using the peel and the cores to boil with a 
little water till it tastes well ; strain, and add a little sugar, and a bit 
of bruised cinnamon or cloves, whichever is preferred, and simmer 

again. In the mean time, place the ap^\e% m a ^^s^, «k ^««N»\i<\w%Y^ 
round the edge ; when one layer is ia BpTva\BAa qti \Jft«iB.VtC&^eQ& vos^ 



GREEN G008EBBRBT TAXPB, ETC. 217 

and some shred ksBiom-peel, and squeeze in some lemon jnice, or a 
glass of cider if the apples haye lost their freshness ; then pat in the 
rest of the apples, sugar, and the liqiM»' that has heen hoiled. Cover 
with either of the plain pastes (see pages 200-1). Some add quince- ' 
marmalade, or orange-paste, to the apples as an improyement. 
Apfdes should neyer he cut smaller than in quarters, or they do not 
become tender in baking ; nor should thej be loag exposed to the air 
after peeling, as they put on a dark colour, and the surface becomes 
hard. 

CoDLiN Tart. 

794. Scald the codlins as is directed under that head \ when ready, 
take off the thin skin, aud lay them whole in a dish ; put a little of 
the water the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them oyer with 
lump sugar or fine Lisbon ; when cold, put any of the preyiously- 
described pastes round the edges and over the tart, or bake a crust in 
an empty tin or dish, and lift the lid ; cut it in quarters, without touch- 
ing the paste on the edge of the dish, and make the points stand up, 
or remoye the lid altogether to introduce the fruit. Pour a good 
custard oyer it when cold, and sift sugar oyer. Or, line the bottom 
of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay 
little twists of paste oyer in bars. 

Mixed Apple and Osange Tast. 

795. Pare two Seyille or China oranges thin, boil the peel tiQ tender, 
and shred it fine ; pare, quarter, and core ten apples ; put them in a 
stewpan with as little water as possible ; when half done, add half a 
pound of sugar, the orange-peel, and juice ; boil till pretty thick. 
When cold, put it in a shallow dish with paste round, or patty pans 
lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 

Rhubarb Tart. 

796. Cut the stalks in lengths of one or two inches, haying, if old, 
taken off the thin skin. Lay them in a dish, and put oyer a table- 
spoonful of sugar^ then cover with short-crust or puff-paste (see 
pages 200-1), and bake for half-an-hour to three-quarters. Some add 
a little grated nutmeg. 

Grben Gooseberry, Greek Cursaut, Bipe Curraih!^ Rksciasssi^t.^ 
Bjspbbmmt Asm Curraht, aitd Bi«ag& OxnaLiLk^T^YkKv.^. 
Tar. Tbege Are all made by placing the T^pec\\\^irvjaX»Va. ^^'Sr^^ 



218 CKOUSH COOKERY. 



with about two large table-spoonsful of brown sugar to s small pie- 
dish, and two or three table-spoonsfol of water ; then corer with any 
of th^ pastes described before, and bake. 

6&EEN Aphioot Tabt 

798. Should be made bj stewing the green apricots till tender, either 
in a jar placed in an oven or in a stewpan, with s little water and 
sugar, then putting in a pie-dish. Cover with paste, and bake. 

Kips Plums of all Kinds, 

799. Including greengages, egg-plums, damsons, bnllaces, &c., are 
made into tarts just in the same waj as described under par. 797. 

Kaspbbrbt Tart with Cbbam. 

800. Boll out some thin puff paste, and laj it in a pattj-pan of 
what size you choose. Put in raspberries, strew over them fine sugar, 
cover with a thin lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready 
the following mixture warm : — Half a pint of cream, the jolks of two 
or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar ; and, when this is added 
to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. 

Grange Tart. 

801. Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges till tender, weigh 
them, and add double the weight of sugar ; beat both together to a 
paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a 
walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. Choose a verj shallow 
d^sh, line it with paste, fill it with the fruit, and cover or cross with 
bars, according as it is desired to be an open or closed tart. 

Another. — ^Line a tart- pan with thin puff paste, put into it orange- 
marmalade that is made with apple-jelly, and lay across it twisted 
bars of paste. Bake, and serve when cold. 

Blackberry and Cranberry Tarts 

802. Are made as for currant (see 797); the former is much improved 
by the addition of half the quantity of apples, and a little cider or 
lemon -juice. 

Barbebry Tart 

803. Is excellent when made willo. iveaVi IxxjW., ot ^\>?)q. vv.-^ ^t^R^w^, 
For the former strip the berries ixom t\i^ BX.«»ia, m^^ a.^^\\s3iS. ^isa. 



UB3iON HINCE PIE& Sl9 



vreight of sugar, or rather more if not quite ripe, laying the sugar and 
fruit in alternate layers, and pouring in water, as for currants, adding 
any crust which may be approved of, either open or closed. When the 
preserved barberries are used, the crust must be first half-baked in an 
open form, then add the preserve, and finish the baking. 

Sect 3. — ^Tahtlbts, Cheesecakes, &c. 

804. Tartlets of any of the ordinary preserves are made in small 
patty-pans of any shape, by lining them with puff-paste, and half- 
baking them, then filling with the preserve, and finishing the baking. 

Mince Pies. 

805. Mince pies are made in small patty-pans, which are lined with 
puff-paste, and, after putting in some mince-meat, covering them over 
with more paste, and baking. 

806. To Make the Mince-meat. — ^Take three pounds of suet finely 
chopped and sifted, two pounds of currants, three pounds of raisins, 
and one pound of apples, all chopped very small, three pounds of moist 
sugar, three-quarters of a pint of red and white wine mixed, a glass of 
brandy, the peel of two small lemons, the juice of one, two ounces of 
candied peel, cut ; mix all together with a quarter of an ounce of cin- 
namon, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and one small nutmeg, all 
finely powdered. Keep it in a close covered jar, and, if kept a twelve- 
month, it may require the addition of a little more wine. 

Another Receipt — ^Take two pounds of suet, chopped very fine and 
sifted, two pounds of currants, one pound of sun raisins, two pounds 
of apples, half a pound of bread, one pound and a quarter of moist 
sugar, three-quarters of a pint of red and white wine, mixed, a glass 
of brandy, the peel of two small lemons and the juice of one, four 
ounces of candied orange-peel, cut ; mix all together with cinnamon, 
mace, nutmeg, and salt, to the taste. If preferred, leave out two 
ounces of bread and put in two biscuits. 

Lemon Mince Pies. 

807. Squeeze the juice of six lemons, boil the rinds, pulp, and 
kernels together, in three or four waters, till the bitterness is gone, and 
they are quite tender ; beat it fine in a mortar, and YfVv^Xi ^Ol\ ^^^\.^ 
it two pounds ofcurrantB, one pound of raisiitta b\.otl^^ %xA Osvav^^-» 

two pounds of sugar, and two pounds of suet*, tdxx. «SV X.o^'^JCastn «»ft 



220 XSrOLIBK OOOXBRT. 



pour in the lemon jaioe» with a gUM of ^raady and wbataw dded 
fruits maj be likecL 

Another. — ^Take a large lemon, rtraiii out the jiuc« and boil the riad 
and pulp till tender^ beat It smooth in a mortar, anil put to it csMtyoiad 
of currants, half a pound of beef suet, half a ponnd of lamat ragtrt ths 
juice of the lemon, a glass of wine and one of brandy : if the lemons 
are not very large^ pot two to one ponnd of fruit. 

To Hakb Chebseoakes. 

808. Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk ; whea 
rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieye, and mix with six ounces 
of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded blanched almonds, s little 
orange- flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscnit, four 
ounces of currants, some nutmeg and cinnamon in ftse powdei^ nd 
beat all the above with three eggs and half a pint of erenn till qnft« 
light ; then line the patty-pans with puff-paste, and fill than thfw 
parts fulL 

Another. — ^Tum a eurd with three quaita of nalk, tie it hi t 
strainer, and when dry rub it through a colander with two onnoes of 
butter and a tea-^;up of cream ; add five ounces of currants, fireeggs^ tks 
rind of a lemon grated, four spoonsful of brandy, and goodmdst 
sugar. A piece of rennet one inch square, soaked in water twelve 
hours, will be enough ; put it warm to the milk, and put that by the fire ; 
if jou buy the liquid rennet use one tea-spoonful to each quart. 

Another. — Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of cnnants, 
twelve ounces of Lisbcm sugar, a quarter of an ounce each of cinnamon 
and nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a 
paste, the yolks of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of thin scalded 
cream, and a glass of brandy; put a light puff-paste in the pattjr- 
pans, and three parts fill them. 

Lemon Chssskcakes. 

809. Mix four ounces of sifted lump sugar with four of butter, and 
gently melt them ; then add the yolks of two and the white of one 
G^Sf the rinds of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a 
half, with one Savoy Inscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, and 
three spoonsful of brandy ; mix well ; put in puff-paste. 

Another wiU ke^ Twdve Months.. — To every quarter of a pound of 

batter put a pound of loa{-8ng;at \»oV»a «i&s2^ €vs. ^-\gi^ \dKr«s^ 

Otti two whites, the rind of two \«moM. f5re.\A^ ass^ V°^^^ ^ 



ALMOND CHESSp:CAK£S. 221 

— *— ■ 1 ^ — ' — ■ .^_.,,__^ . ^^ . , , IIHW^ I I 

Pat all into a pan, simmer till the whole is dissolved, and it is as 
thick as honey. When cold, put it into a jar and tie it down for nse ; 
half a pound of batter makes a good-sized jar. Should it accidentallj 
moald at the top, it will be perfectly good ondemeath. 

ObAN«S CaSSSEGAlLXS. 

810. Blanch half a pound of almonds, beat 43i€m veiy fine with 
orange-water, and mix with half a pound of fine sugar beaten and 
sifted, a pound of butter that has been melted carefdilj without 
oiling, and which must be nearly cold before it is used ; then beat the 
jolks of ten and whites of four eggs : pound two candied oranges, and 
a fresk one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar till as tender 
as mamiafaMle, without an j lumps ; and beat the whoie together aad 
put into patty-pans, lined with puff-paste. 

Anotker^'-^'BcnlL the peel of two Sevilie oranges in water till tliej are 
tender and Iht bitteniess is gone, pound them in b mortar. Then add 
a <}«wrter of a pound of sponge biscaits grated, a quarter of a poundof 
butter ; pound again and ma. well with eight eggs, half the whites, and 
one pint ^ cream scalded. Sweeten to your taste. 

Potato Cheesecakes. 

« 

811. Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon peel; 
beat the latter in a marble mortar with four ounces of sagar ; then add 
the potatoes, beaten, and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. 
When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put puff-paste in patty- 
pans, and rather more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half 
an liour, sifting some double-refined sugar on them when going to the 
oven. This quantity will make a dozen. 

Apple Cheesecakes. 

812. Take three-quarters of a pound of apples, scald and pulp them, 
half a pound of lump sugar, half a pound of butter melted, eight yolks 
and four whites of eggs, the grated peel and juice of two lemons ; bake 
in patty-pans lined with a good paste. 

Almond Cheesecakes. 

813. Take two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded^ ib5^ 
yolks of four e^^ and the whites of two, a <\a&x\£x cA. %b ^T^saa^^:^ 

butter meUedf a ^aarter of a p^iuid of Bugai, a^^tiX^ Vm<^ ^3^^\jpt"asA:S' 



222 ixausE. oookebt. 



and the rind of half a lemon finely ponnded. Pat in pattj*paniy lined 
with puff-paste. 

Detonshirb Chbbsecakxs. 

814. Boil one large carrot till tender, mb it through a sieve, and mix 
well with it two small table-spoonsfal of flour, half a pound of currants, 
one egg well beaten, a tea-spoonful of milk, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, and a little nutmeg. Then line the pattj-pans with pastiy, fill 
them with the mixture, and bake. 

LiTTLB Cockades Garnished. 

815. Spread some puff paste, made according to Tide's receipt (pax. 
742), about a quarter of an inch thick ; cut it with a Ikrge fluted ronnd 
cutter, the same as for patties ; cut a hole in the middle with a small 
plain round cutter, then, as quicklj as possible, with the finger turn the 
paste so as to put the inside on the baking dish, and the outside abo?e; 
put them at a great distance from each other on the baking dish, as 
the paste spreads sidewajs instead of rising ; bake in a hot oyen, and 
glaze of a good colour. When done, thej represent the exact form of 
a cockade. Garnish with fillets of sweetmeat, to represent the plaits 
of the cockade. 

Apricot Cakes Trellised. 

816. Spread some puff paste (see par. 732) (trimmings will do for 
these cnkcs); spread it equally on a large buttered baking-sheet with 
the rolling-pin. Spread some apricot marmalade over the paste 
equally, then cut some more paste long and narrow, roll it about the 
size of strong cord, and arrange it crossways like a trellis over the 
marmalade ; put down over the bars lightly ; and lastly, bake it in a 
moderate oven. When done, cut them into small oblong squares, and 
dress them on the dish, one above the other. 

PUFPS. 

817. These are usually made with puff paste (par. 732), which is 
turned over upon the contents, pressed together at the edges, and 
baked without any tin or shape. 

Apple Pupps. 

818. Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a batn-mane or in a 
stone jar on a hot plate, or bake them; when cold> mix the pulp of 



CftISP PASTRY. g23 



the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred fine, taking as little of the 
apple-juice as possible ; bake in thin paste, in a quick oyen ; a quarter 
of an hour will do when small. Orange or quince marmalade is a 
great improvement. 

Lemok Fuits. 

819. Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double-refined sugar ; 
grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well with the sugar ; 
then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a great while, add them to 
the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour ; make it up in any shape 
you please, and bake it on paper put on tin plates in a moderate oven. 
Do not remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it 
come off with ease. 

Sect. 4. — Sweet Sandwiches, and Crisp Pastry. 
Sweet Sandwiches. 

820. The weight of two eggs in butter, sugar, and flour ; beat the 
butter to a cream, the eggs should also be well beaten bj themselves, 
mix all together, spread on a flat tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 
(Thej should be watched, as they are apt to bum). When taken out 
of the oven, they must be cut immediately into the shape required ; 
as, when cold, they break into pieces. Before serving them, spread a 
layer of preserves, such as strawberry, raspberry, or plum ; lay on this 
a second piece of the pastry, as for meat sandwiches, and trim th^ 
edges neatly. 

Crisp Pastry. 

821. Take flve fresh eggs, with their weight in powdered sugar, one 
table-spoonful of flour, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat all, not 
whisk, these ingredients well together in a stewpan with an iroii 
spoon, warm it a little over the flre, taking care not to make it too hot, 
or the pastry will be too thin. Drop it on buttered tins in small 
quantities, and bake a fine brown. Turn them in the shape of a 
sugar-loaf, and dry them in the sun on a wire sieve. They should 
be kept in a dry place ; and, just before being sent to table, fill them 
with coloured jellies or creams. This pastry should be made as thin 

possible. These proportions are enough for several times. 



224 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



CHAFTEB XIZ^PUDDINGS AND FUDDIirah &LUCSB& 

Sect. 1. — GFbkbbal Remabks. 

822. Paddings may be either boiled or baked, and they are made 
in such a Tariety of ways as almost to be beyond the reach of definition. 
When boiled, they are generally tied np in a doth.* The ontiidd of a 
boiled pudding often tastes disagreeably, from the doth not beiBg 
nicely washed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in hcMliag 
water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be nsed. If the podding ii 
of bread, it should be tied loosely; if of batter, tightly -OTer the basin' 
The water should boil quick when the pudding ia pot in; aad 
it should be moyed about for a minute, lest the ingredients should 
not be mixed at the moment of setting. Batter-pudding should be 
strained through a coarse sieve when all is mixed ; in otiien^ the eggs 
are strained separately. The pans and banns must be buttered, to 
prevent the paste sticking to them ; which is also avoided by having a 
pan of cold water ready, and dipping the pudding in as soon as it 
comes out of the pot. Very good puddings may be made wiAomi 
eggs : but they must have as little milk as will mix them, and boil 
three or four hours. A few spoonsful of any kind of bottled mah 
liquor, or of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of 
eggs. Or, snow is a tolerable substitute for eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonsful will supply the place of one egg^ 
and the article it is used in will be nearly equally good. This is A 
useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls when eggs 
are dearest. It may be taken up from any clean spot some hours 
before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue until it melts, though 
the sooner it is used the better. In using eggs, the yolks and whites 
should be beaten separately, by which the articles they are put into 
are made much lighter. 

823. Plain Fruit Puddings are, most of them, made either with 
the suet crust (par. 738), lining a basin and covering the fruit, which 
is then tied up in a cloth, or with the same crust, using butter instead 
of the suet, but not adding more than six ounces to the pound of flour. 

Sect. 2, — Pudding. 

Apple Pudding. 

824. la made by lining a basin V\t\v t\vft aJao^^ ^«^<fe, «c^\ ^XXasv^it 
with pared, quartered, and cored ap^\ea, «w^^m^ x.^^ \.^\^-«^q«m&s^ 



BAKED BIPB GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 225 

■ 111 ^^— ■^^■^^■^■M ■■ ■^-^^^^^^^^^^^^^^■^^^i^^— ^^W^^— ■ ■ MMM»I I Mill I — J— ^M^^^fc^a^B^^^^^^M^ I I , 

of sngar, coveringr it with' the paste, and then boiling it from one to 
two hours, according to the size of the padding and the ripeness of 
the apples. It is a bad plan to cut the apples up into small pieces, as 
the exposure to the air renders the cut surface hard and tough. 

6008BBERRT AKD Currant Puddings, &c. 

825. All other fresh fruit puddings, such as gooseberry, currant, 
raspberry, &c., are made in the same way as that given for apples 
(see par. 824). 

Haspberrt Pudding. 

826. Half fill a deep dish with ripe raspberries mashed with sugar, 
beat six eggs light, and mix them with one pint of milk, sugar, and 
grated nutmeg. Pour this over the raspberries, bake half an hour in 
a moderate oven, serve as cold as possible. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 

827. Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them tender, with the 
rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain ; 
beat them quite fine in a mortar, and add the crumb of a small roU, 
four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three 
eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; mix all together, and 
lay it in a dish with paste to turn out, leaving a hole at the bottom of 
the size of a sixpence, so that the juice may exude through it, and 
give a rich flavour to the paste. This makes it doubly delicious. 

828. The Other Fruits mentioned at par. 825 may be used as 
described at par. 827, and baked in the same way. 

A Light Bread and Apple Pudding. 

829. Line a basin with slices of bread, then a layer of sugar ; fill it 
with apples pared and quartered, and lay a slice of bread over them. 
Tie a cloth over the basin, and boil abont one hour and a half. 

Baked Eipe Gooseberry Pudding. 

830. Stew one and a half pound of ripe red gooseberries in a jar, 
put in the oven or a saucepan of water until they ^411 pulp, take a pint 
of the juice, press it through a coarse sieve, mix \t -^xxXv \jKt^^ ^'?5e^ 
well beaten, and one ounce and a half of "buUet, ^«ti «^^^Nfc^ «^^ 
bake m s dish lined vritb ti thin paste. A !^^ cnro^i^ cA xc^^ ^ ^^^'^ 

<4 



226 ENQUSH COOKBRY. 



ounces of Naples biscuits, should be mixed with the above to make 
it firm. 

Delicious Fruit Puddiko. 

831. Mix two and a half pounds of red currants and raspberries 
with one and a quarter pound of raw sugar, then fill a pudding-dish 
with sliced bread (without crust), and layers of the fruit alternately, 
leaving a thick layer of the fruit at the top. Bake it in the bacheloi^s 
oven for nearly an hour before it is served, and serve it in the same 
dish, which may be improved in appearance by a knitt-ed cover tied 
over the edges. 

EiCB AND Fruit (baked), 

832. Wash a sufficient quantity of rice ; put a little water to it, and 
set it in the oven till it is absorbed ; then put in a little milk, work it 
well with a spoon, set it in the oven again, and keep working it from 
time to time till it is sufficiently soft. A little cream worked in it at 
the last is an improvement. Fill a pie-dish nearly full of fruit, sweeten 
it, and lay on the rice unevenly by spoonsful. Bake it till the rice is 
of a light brown colour. 

Rice Pudding with Fruit, 

833. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then mix 
fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries, scalded, pared, and 
quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) ; with one egg in the rice 
to bind it ; boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

Batter Pudding with Fruit. 

834. This is made by mixing green gooseberries or black currants 
with batter, and boiling as for batter pudding (which see). 

Oatmeal Pudding. 

835. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best ^ne oat- 
meal ; let it soak all night ; next day beat ^two eggs, and mix a little 
salt ; butter a basin that will just hold it ; cover it tight with a floured 
cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and 
salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oatcake buttered. 

Prepaubd Ba'kl.e.t "ExsiyDiYSQ.. 
636s Mix four table-spoonCnls oi baiV^j ^\>2fiL««ffikRA«QN. ^^^\£^)l.*v^ 



PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 227 



form a paste, pour on it one quart of scalding milk, then add a small 
slice of butter and four eggs well beaten ; flay our with nutmeg, lemoii>> 
peel, bitter almonds, and sugar. Be careful to stir the barley well 
while pouring on it the boiling milk, and not to put in the eggs till the 
mixture is cold. The eggs must also be well mixed in. Bake one 
and a half hour in a slow oyen. 

Another. — ^Pour boiling water upon two ounces of pearl barley the 
evening before ; next morning put it into a saucepan with a quart of 
milk, and a small piece of butter, and some moist sugar. Let it sim- 
mer over the fire five or six hours, then put it into a pie-dish and 
brown it before the fire for a quarter of an hour. It should be nearly 
as thick as custard, but not solid. 

Good Batteb Pudding. 

837. To one pint of new milk add three eggs, four spoonsful of flour, 
and some slices of candied peel with the sugar on it ; serve with wine 
sauce, and bake in cups, or boil. 

A Batter Pudding without Eggs. 

838. One pint of milk. Mix three spoonsful of flour with a little 
of the milk first, half a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of powdered 
ginger, and one teaspoonful of tincture of safixon. Mix all together 
and boil an hour — fruit may be added. 

Hasty Pudding. 

839. Boil a pint of milk, then whilst boiling stir into it as ihuch 
flour as will thicken it, generally about a table-spoonfuL Serve hot^ 
with cold butter and sugar, or, if preferred, the best treacle. 

840. Hasty Pudding Baked. — Stir half a pound of flour into a 
pint of cold milk, and boil it, then take five eggs, and three quarters 
of an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and add them 
to the hasty pudding when cold. Sweeten with sugar. Bake in cups, 
and serve with wine sauce. 

Plain Rice Pudding. 

841. Wash and pick some Carolina rice; throw among it some 
pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice in «. <sKftN.V\.^%»S^ 
leave plenty, of room for it to swell. BoW \t m «i. c^oiWiVxVj cA ^^vst \«^ 

an hoar or two. When doney eat it "witk buUet «av^ wx.^j^x,^"^'*^ 



228 ENGUSn COOKBRT. 



Pat lemon-peel, if approved. Many people prefer it without spice, and 
eat it with salt and batter alone. An egg is an improyement. 

Another plain but good boiled Rice Pudding. — ^Two oimces of Cartons 
rice boiled in one pint of milk, a few bread erombs and corraiits, two 
eggs, and a little natmeg and brown sngar well mixed together, fiofl 
it in a basin three quarters of an hoar. Serve with wine sauce. 

Common Bakbd Riob Pudding. 

842. Put half a teacupfol of rice in a dish, with a pint (^ skim or 
new milk, a little sugar, and natmeg or lemon-peel to be added, with, 
if preferred, a small slice of batter or dripping, or a few jMeces of soet 
put on the top. Bake slowlj, and stir it occasionally at fint, to pr»> 
vent the rice from burning to the bottom. If required to tarn out, the 
dish must be buttered. An egg is a great improvement to this 
pudding; and, if it is liked in a milky condition, less rice mast benaed. 

Another Baked Rice Pudding (richer). — ^Boil about two table^apoonsful 
of rice in water till just soft ; then pour away the water and add a pint 
of new milk, a little nutmeg, lemon-peel, and sugar ; then boil again, 
and, when just off the boil, add the yolk and whites of nearly three 
eggs ; bake and serve with sugar sifted over it. 

CiTKRANT Rice Pctdding. 

843. Put half a pound of rice in a saucepan with a quart of milk. 
Dredge half a pound of Zante currants with flour, and stir them gradu- 
ally in. Add four ounces of lump sugar rubbed on lemon, with the 
juice, and two ounces of butter in bits. When the rice is well 
swollen, mix with it gradually six or eight yolks of eggs well beaten ; 
transfer it to a deep china dish, and put it in the oven for half an hour; 
sift powdered sngar on the top, and brown with a salamander. These 
quantities make a very large pudding. 

A Ground Rice Pudding. 

844. Add to one pint of milk four eggs well beaten, and one and a 
half table-spoonful of ground rice; boil these together, stirring them. 
Pour the mixture while hot over two ounces of butter, sugar to the 
taste, and add the grated rind with the juice of a middle-sized lemon. 
Xiine the dish with puff paste before patting in the mixture, and bake. 

845. A Plain Ground Rice Pudding may be made with a fourth 
part of the eggs and butter given. «kWt^ ox %.\i"^ ^^C&st Y^'^^QKtion (if 
th^m, and wiikoui piuite ox lexnou* 



ARROWROOT PUBDHTQ. 229" 



Tjlpioca Pudding. 

^46. Soak two table-spoonsful of tapioca iii a quart of told milk for 
four hours, mix with it two eggs well beaten, two ounces of sugar, and 
a little grated lemon-peel ; let it boil, stirring it all the time to prevent 
the eggs from turning the milk. Bake it in a dish for half an hoot; 
one egg is enough for common purposes. 

Sago PuDDnra. 

847. Put three ounces of sago to soak in cold water for half an 
hour, then pour off the water, and stir the sago by degrees into a pint 
of milk boiling hot in a saucepan ; let it boil ten minutes. Stir it till 
quite cool. Beat an egg well, mix it with a little cold milk, one 
ounce of sugar, and a little grated lemon-peel. Mix all well together, 
and bake in a slow oven an hour and a quarter. 

848. Boiled Sago Pudding : one and a half ounce of sago to a little 
more than a pint of milk ; boil it together with a stick of cinnamon : grate 
four sponge biscuits or the same quantitj of bread crumbs, pour the sago 
and milk hot upon it, and let it stand covered till cool. Beat five eggs, 
leaving out half the whites. Beat all together with a little sugar and 
wliite wine, and put it in a buttered basin ; a little less than an hour 
will boil it. Serve with wine sauce. This pudding may be baked, if 
preferred, in a dish lined with puff paste or not, according to fancy. 

Semolina Pudding. 

849. Add two ounces of semolina, previously soaked in a little cold 
milk for half an hour, to a pint of boiling milk, in the same way as for 
sago pudding, and add the egg and lemon -peel also, as in that pudding 
(which see at par. 847). 

Akbowboot Pudding. 

850. Mix an ounce and a half of West Indian arrowroot with a 
little cold water into a thin smooth paste ; while doing this, boil a pint 
of milk gently with a little cinnamon and sugar ; when boiling, pour 
it into a basin through a strainer upon the arrowroot, stirring it care- 
fully ; as soon as this becomes cool, beat three eggs and add them, 
stirring them well in. Then boil in a basin, or bake in a dish.^^^^ 
crust on the edge. From half an hout to l\\i^^ c^3k!MX«»N&^^iS^jaKo»^ 
One egg is enough for a plain pudding. 



230 XNOUSR CXK>KERT. 



Custard Puddwo. 

851. Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a lar^i^e spoonfii] of 
flour, and some sugar to the taste *. boil them together for ten mimitefl^ 
then add the jolks of five eggs, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter 
a basin that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured 
cloth over. Put it in boiling-water over the Are, and turn it about 
for a few minutes, to prevent the eggs going to one side. Half an 
hour will boil it. Put currant jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. 

852. Another plainer Custard Pudding. — One pint of new milk poured 
boiling upon three spoonsful of flour; beat them up together^ then 
add three eggs, and boil an hour. 

853. Rich baked Custard Pudding, — ^Add four eggs well beaten to a 
quart of milk, nutmeg and sugar to taste, line the dish partly, and 
edge it with paste before pouring in the custard. 

854. Little Custard Puddings. — Three eggs, three spoonsful of flour, a 
gill of milk, a little salt, sugar, and nutmeg. Bake in teacups, and 
serve immediately. 

BREAD-ATfD-BuTTER PuDDING. 

855. Slice bread thin, spread it with butter, cut it in rather small 
pieces, and lay it in a dish with currants or any preserve between the 
layers. Pour over it a slightly-boiled custard made of milk, with one 
egg, a little sugar, and lemon-peel; let it soak two hours at least 
before it is to be baked, and lade the custard over to soak the bread. 
This is very good made without either currants or preserve. 

856. An excellent Bread and Butter Pudding. Boil four laurel and two 
bay leaves in half a pint of milk, pour it over three and a half ounces of 
bread grated fine, three ounces of loaf sugar and three ounces of 
butter, stir till well mixed ; when cold, add two eggs and a glass of 
white wine, with a grate of nutmeg and a little lemon-peel ; beat it 
before you put it in the oven, and bake half an hour. 

Boiled Bread Puddino, 

857. Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and cover close. 
When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and mix with it two or 
three eggs well beaten. Put it into a basin that will just hold it; tie 
a floured cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with 
melted batter poured over. It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 

Another andHicher, — On half a ^Vat ot craB3^% QS.\)it^«A^w»\Mji>l^ 



HACABOKI PUDDING. 28l 



pint of scalding milk; cover for an hour. Beat up four eggs, and, 
when strained, add to the bread a tea-spoonful of flour, an ouncd of 
butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of 
almonds beaten with orange-flower water, half an ounce of orange 
peel, and the same of lemon and citron. Butter a basin that will 
exactly hold it, flour the cloth, tie tight over, and boil one hour. 

858. Brown Bread Pudding. — Mix half a pound of brown bread, 
crumbled, with four ounces of suet, four ounces of moist sugar, four 
eggs, half a pound of currants, half a pint of milk, and a little brandy. 
It must boil an hour and a half. 

Baked Bbead Fuddino, Plain but Excellent. 

859. Slice the bread, and pour over boiling new milk enough to 
cover it ; let it stand together to soak twenty minutes. Then add 
three (or two) eggs, well beaten ; a little lemon-peel, loaf sugar, and 
a squeeze of lemon to make it lighter. Beat for twenty minutes, or 
half an hour if time allows, before baking. Sift loaf sugar over it 
when turned out to send to table. 

LiTTLB Bread Puddings. 

860. Steep the crumbs of a penny loaf grated in about a pint of 
warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites and yolks, and mix 
with the bread, and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower 
water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a teacupful of cream. 
Beat all well, and bake in teacups buttered. If currants are chosen, 
a quarter of a pound is sufficient j if not, they are good without j or 
you may put orange or lemon candy. Serve up with pudding-sauce. 

Bbead and Bice Pudding. 

861. Steep a quarter of a pound of rice in new milk till quite soft, 
and cover it over till cold ; then soak about two ounces of white 
bread ; drain it from the milk, and add it to the rice ; beat it well with 
two or three eggs, a little sugar and nutmeg, and boil for an hour. 
Or, if you bake it, put a little butter or suet on the top. 

Macaroni Pudding. 

662. Boil a teacupful of macaroni in a quart of milk till tender ; 
then beat well two eggs, yolks and whites separately ; stir all to^tbi^T^ 
sugar and spice to the tafite, and bake. 

863. A Mich Macaroni Pudding, — A qjiwclet cS. «l ^wssA ^'l ^Hi^." 



233 E50LI8H OOOKERT. 

caroni is to be bulled in a pint of milk for half an hour; then turn it 
into a di«h, and mix with it three eggs, two table-spoonsfol of loaf 
sugar, a little nutmeg, and a few pounded ahnonda or lemon-peel; 
butter the mould well, and boil or steam it one hour. Senre it np 
with wine sauce. 

864. Very Hkk Macaroni Puddiag. — ^Boil a quarter of a pound of 
macaroni in a pint of milk« with some bitter almonds and cinnamon 
stick, till tender ; then remove the flavourings and stir in, while hot, 
a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a iK>und of sifted sogar, 
and a pint and a half of cream ; mix, and beat hard ; and stir in gn- 
duallj four well-beaten eggs ; when it has cooled, add natmeg SDd 
brandr, and bake it. YermicelU and ground rice may be made in the 
tame manner. 

BOLLT-POLLT FdDBIKO. 

865. This well-known pudding is made bj rolling out a thin lajer 
of suet or butter paste, as for puddings, upon which either a preserve 
or dried currants are spread evenly, leaving an inch bare at the edges 
all round, except on that next the cook, and then the whole is rolled 
up into a long pudding, closed at the ends hy pinching the paste, and 
enveloped in the same way in a cloth, which is tied with a string ai 
each end, and boiled about one hour. 

Children's Fuddinq. 

866. Mix three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of 
treacle, half a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, and a little 
milk, and boil three hours. 

SuBT Pudding, 

867. If intended to be eaten with sugar or preserve, is made in the 
same way as for savoury dishes (see par. 785). 

Plum Pudding. 

868. Mix together a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, the same 
of treacle, currants, and suet, and a little nutmeg. Put in a basin or 
shape, and boil three hours. 

869. Common Plum Pudding. — Soak nine ounces of white bread in 
milk from six to twelve hours, squeeze very dry, add to it half a pound 
of raisins when stoned, four ounces of suet chopped fine, three egga, 
three ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg \ bvLitex t. mouldy put it in, aiu4 

bail three hours. Serve with w'm« aan^^ 



BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 2BS 



870. Phm Pudding without Eggs, — ^Mix together half a pound of 
bread, four ounces of suet, four ounces of treacle or sugar, a dessert- 
spoonful of honey-water, and half a pound of currants, with a little 
milk. Boil it three or four hours. 

871. A Plain Plum Pudding. — ^Well mix a large breakfast -cupful 
of bread-crumbs, the same quantity of flour, the same of finely-chopped 
beef suet, two eggs well beaten, a cupful of sugar, a little ginger, grated 
nutmeg and candied peel, a quarter of a pound of currants, half a 
pound of raisins, two spoonsful of treacle made warm in a little milk. 
Boil it four hours. 

Another Plain Plum Pudding. — Mix a pound of grated bread, half a 
pound of currants when cleaned, half a pound of raisins when stoned, 
half a pound of suet, two ounces of candied peel, four eggs, some 
sugar, a glass of wine or brandy, a little nutmeg, and a teacupfnl of 
milk ; put it in a basin, and boil it four hours. 

872. A Bieher Plum Thudding. — Mix together one pound each of 
plums, currants, moist sugar, suet, and bread-crumbs, four ounces of 
flour, and four eg^ well beaten ; add mixed spice and candied peel to 
the taste, with a spoonful of brandy and sherry. Boil four hours. 

873. A Rich Plum Pudding. — Mix together half a pound of grated 
bread, half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, half a pound of currants, 
half a pound of apples chopped fine, seven yolks of eggs well beaten, 
two or three spoonsful of brandy and a little sherry ; sugar and salt to 
the taste. Let it boil four hours at least. The sauce should be red 
wine, sugar, and butter. 

874. A very Rich and Excellent Plum Pudding. — ^Beat eight eggs 
and mix them with a pint of good cream, half a pound of flour, 
and half a pound of crumb of bread ; beat them well together, and put 
to them one pound of beef suet chopped very fine, one pound of 
currants, one pound of jar raisins stoned and chopped small, one 
pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of candied orange-peel, and the 
same of citron. Grate a nutmeg, and mix all well together with half 
a pint of brandy and wine ; put it in a cloth, and tie it up close. It 
will take six hours to boil. 

875. Mock Plum Pudding. — ^Add to half a pound of flour half a 
pound of treacle, and half a pound of suet. Mix them together, and 
boil for six hours. *^ 

876. Baked Plum Pudding. — ^Take half a pound of suet cho^i^d 
fine, eight or ten ounces of plums stoneOi an^ c\i\. \tl \i«\:s«9»^\w«i& ^ 

poand of ibread-cnunbs scalded witli baVi & pint oi \i<yKasi%'«si^s-\ *^^ 



234 SNGLTSH COOKERT. 

two or three well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of moisi nigar, ind 
a little lemon peel or nutmeg. Mix, and bake full an hour and i 
balf in a slow oven. Turn it out of the pie-dish, and senre either o(dd 
or hot. 

Fig Pudding, 

877. Add to one quarter of a pound of grated bread crumbs fiye and 
a half ounces of finely chopped suet, and about six ounces of moiit 
sugar, then beat two eggs and put them to the above, adding jasl 
enough of cold milk to make the pudding of a proper consistent. 
Boil it full four hours, and, if approved, it may be served with wise 
sauce. 

Swiss Pudding. 

878. Butter a pie-dish, and put into it a layer of bread crumbs, then 
a layer of sliced apples, sprinkle over moist sugar, then a layer of 
bread-crumbs, next of apples and sugar, and so on till the <^»fth ig 
filled, finishing with a thick layer of crumbs ; melt fresh butter and 
pour over it. Grate in a little nutmeg, and bake an hour : any fresh. 
fruit may be substituted for the apples. 

Snowdon Pudding. 

879. Mix together a breakfast-cupful each of chopped suet, cmmlM 
of bread, and sifted sugar ; add two eggs and a glass of wine, and the 
juice and rind of a lemon. Line the basin or mould with raisins, and 
boil it five hours. 

880. A Richer Snowdon Pudding. — ^Take half a pound of bread 
crumbs, two ounces of sago, half a pound of suet chopped very fine, 
six eggs, half a glass of brandy, six ounces of orange or lemon mar- 
malade, six ounces of moist sugar. Mix all well together, butter a 
mould, and ornament with swelled raisins ; boil for one hour, and 
serve with marmalade sauce. 

Pembroke Pudding, 

881. Mix together two ounces of suet shred fine, two ounces of bread 
crumbs, two eggs, two spoonsful of sugar and a pint of milk, a little 
flavouring of spice^r lemon-peel improves it ; bake it half an hour, 

Poott Knight's Podding* 
882, Cut A roll into thin slices mtVi \.\vft ct\»\. av!L\V^vx.xK^\w^ 



OARBOT PUDDINO. 235 



with a pint of milk ; sugar and nutmeg to the taste. Let the slices 
soak in this costard for an hour, then ponr off, and drain another 
hour ; fry them till they are of a nice brown, and serve with wine 
sauce. 

St. Agnes Pudding. 

883. Mix together ten ounces of grated bread, half a pound of suet, 
half a pound of moist sugar, the rind and juice of a large lemon, and 
one egg. It takes a long time to mix ; a little brandy is a great im- 
provement, and a few currants may be added. Boil it nearly an 
hour. 

Lbhonadb Pudding a cool Summed Dish. 

884. Make a sufficient quantity of lemonade in the usual way, add- 
ing the juice of a Seville orange to every pint; when cold, soak in it 
thoroughly a French roll or rolls, but do not break them, then stick 
in their surface blanched almonds, pour over them liquefied currant 
jelly, and serve. 

J 

White Pot. 

885. Mix three pints of milk, half a pint of spring water, five eggs 
well beaten, three ounces of butter, a French roll sliced, white sugar 
and nutmeg to the taste. Bake it in a bowl two hours in a quick oven. 

Carrot Pudding. 

886. Boil some carrots till they are quite soft; when cold, beat half 
a pound in a mortar with six ounces of butter ; when these are well 
mixed beat in six ounces of sugar, two eggs (do not beat them first), 
half a nutmeg, a little brandy, and one spoonful of cream ; mix these 
well together in a dish lined with paste, and put it in just before 
baking. An hour will bake it. 

Another Carrot Pudding. — Weigh eight ounces of carrots; when 
boiled chop very fine, and mix with six ounces of currants, four 
ounces of flour, two ounces of suet chopped, six ounces of sugar, and 
half a nutmeg grated. Then stir in two eggs, and. a table-spoonful of 
milk. This sized pudding requires two hours' boiling. To be served 
up with a sauce made with brandy, sugar, and butter, with the yolk 
of a raw egg beaten in it. 

Another. — Mix half a pound of raw caxtoXs ^«tV^^ ^\\s3cj OsJ^s^ ^ 
poand of suet, half a pound of ftour, \i«A5 a. ^o\vci^ o.^ c^acct^«o^a^^ 



236 EKOUSH COOKEET. 

quarter of a pound of raisins, two table-spoonsful of sugary and a wm^ 
glassful of sberrj. Boil the whole in a cloth for three hoars: if desired 
plainer, the currants and suet may be reduced hal^ and the wine 
omitted. 

Ybgstablb FUDDINa. 

887. Half a pound of grated carrots, half a pound of cold msshed 
potatoes, half a pound of flour, half a pound of suet, half a pound of 
sugar, four ounces of candied lemon-peel, one quarter of a pound of 
currants, to be boiled slowlj four hours. 

Potato Pudding. 

888. Take a pound of fine meally potatoes, boil them till very dry 
and floury, and mash them till perfectly smooth, taking care to amd 
destroying their light texture by too heavy a pressure ; then mix with 
them, while hot, four ounces of butter, five and a half of sugar, five or 
six eggs, a very little salt, and a liberal allowance of grated lemon- 
peel. Pour these ingredients into a well-buttered dish, and bake the 
pudding in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. It should be 
turned out, and served with a layer of sifted sugar over it, or preserve 
round it. Or, it may be boiled, omitting the butter. When cold, this 
pudding eats like cake, and may be served as such. 

Another. — Mash together three-quarters of a pound of potatoes 
when boiled and peeled, two ounces of powdered sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of suet or butter (if butter, beat it with the potatoes), and stir 
' in two spoonsful of rose water, then stir in the sugar with nine eggs 
well beaten, one spoonful of flour, a little mace, a pint of cream or 
good milk, and a little salt. Put a paste round the dish, and, if you 
like, a thin paste at the bottom ; three-quarters of an hour in a quick 
oven will bake it, or without paste it may be turned out, and served 
with preserves round, or sifted sugar over it. 

Another. — ^To half a pound of potatoes, when boiled and mashed 
through a sieve, add six ounces of butter and six ounces of sifted sugar, 
while hot ; when cold, add four eggs and the rind and juice of a lemon. 
Put a light paste round the dish and bake it. 

Lemon Pudding. 

889. Mix together a quarter of a pound each of butter, loaf-sugar, 
and a quarter of a pint of milk*, put altogether into a saucepan till 

djssolvedj but it should not bo\\\ yi^icu xaxStvct tw:\ «A.^>Cca«i^ 



LEMON PUDDINOa 2S7 



nrell beaten, the rind of a large lemon grated, and a little juice ; line 
the dish with a thin paste, and bake. 

A richer Lemon Puddinff, — Boil the peel of a lemon in two waters, 
then beat it fine in a stone mortar ; add half a pound of loaf sugar, 
tialf a pound of butter, a sponge biscuit or a few bread crumbs, and 
»x eggs well beaten ; mix all well together, add two table-spoonsful of 
t>randj and a little lemon juice, and bake it in a dish lined with a 
puff paste. 

Lemon Apple Pudding. 

890. Take two or four small apples, boil them to a pulp in a little 
v^ater ; add the peel of one lemon cut fine, the juice of half a one, the 
rolks of four eggs, a large spoonful of brandy, and two ounces of 
)utter melted ; sweeten to the taste. Line a dish with puff paste, and 
ill with the mixture ; then bake it. These proportions are for a rich 
)udding. For a common one omit the brandy, use one or two eggs 
md one ounce of butter, and add rather more lemon juice. 

Lemon Bbead Pudding. 

891. Mix three ounces of bread grated, three ounces of loaf sugar, 
hree ounces of butter, and the rind of a lemon grated ; boil three- 
[uarters of a pint of milk, and pour oyer it ; when cold, add three 
\ggB well beaten, and the juice of one lemon ; put paste round the 
lish, pour in the abore ingredients, and bake. 

Boiled Lemon Pudding. 

892. Take half a pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of sifted 
ugar, the grated rind and juice of three small lemons, a quarter of 
i pound of butter, and six beaten eggs ; stir the butter with half the 
ugar till light, then stir in two table-spoonsful of flour : add the butter 
ind sugar by degrees to the bread crumbs, mix the remaining sugar 
irith the lemon juice, and add gradually to the rest ; boil in a cloth or 
n a mould with a hole in the centre, which can be filled with a sauce 
»f beaten butter and sugar flavoured with lemon. 

Six-HouK Pudding. 

893. Mix together one pound of suet cut large as dice, three- 
[uarters of a pound of raisins when stoned, six ounces each of flour 
md moist sugar, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of four e^i^ 
ind whites of two; butter the mould a\id "boW. %Vx.\iQv«%\ ^^x^^'^^fia. 
nmdjr-sanc^ 



238 ENGLI8H COOKERY. 

Cabinet Fcddixo. 

894. Stone two dozen of large table raisins, batter a basin and stick 
them all over it, then fill np the basin with a thick costard made of 
milk, three or four cgg3, abont a tea-capfnl of finely-grated bread, two 
table-spoonsful of sugar, a few chopped almonds, and anj other 
flavour that is approved. Boil an hour and a hal^ and when toned 
out the raisins will be outside. 

LlOIIT-BoiLED FUDDIXO. 

895. Boil a pint of new milk with two bay and three laurel leaves; 
take out the leaves, and pour the milk, when cold, orer fire ounces of 
bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and one oonce of 
butter ; add three eggs well beaten and a glass of sherry ; butter t 
mould, and stick it round with raisins or not. Boil one lioor, 

Apple Chaelottb. 

896. Boil four large apples,. beat them to a pulp and sweeten them 
with loaf sugar, add one egg and the rind of a lemon grated ; poor 
this into a dish which has been well buttered and lined with bread 
crumbs, cover the top with crumbs, and bake it a light brown. 

Biscuit Pcddinq. 

897. Four one pint of boiling milk on three penny Naples biscuits 
grated, cover it close ; when cold, stir in the yolks of four and the 
whites of two eggs, a little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and some 
sugar. Boil this an hour in a basin, and serve it with pudding-sauce ; 
some almonds may be blanched and cut in four, and stuck over the 
pudding. 

Another, — Weigh two eggs, and take equal weight of floor and 
sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream ; add the 
two eggs beaten, and mix well. This is sufficient for six small cups 
filled three parts full, bake them in a slow oven twenty minutes. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

Wafer Fdddings. 

898. Two ounces of butter, the yolks of four eggs, two table-spoons- 
ful of flour and a little milk, whisk the whites to a froth, bake them 
in patty-pans. Serve them piled on a napkin with sifted sugar, 

Leamington Fuddiko. 

899. Mix of each, two ounces of flour, sugar powdered, and battcf 



CHEESE PUDDING. 239 



melted, with three eggs, leaving oat one white, and half a pint of 
cream. Bake it half an" hour, and serve with hot wine sauce. It 
should be baked in three separate oval tins an inch in depth, and 
placed one upon the other in the dish, the smallest being at the top. 
The largest tin should be eight and a quarter inches by five and a 
quarter, and the others, each rather more than the eighth of an inch 
smaller than the other. 

Cheltenham Pudding. 

900. Mix three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of snet 
chopped very fine, half a pound of currants, two or three eggs, two dr 
Aree ounces of sugar, half a pint of milk, or enough to make the 
pudding thicker than batter, but thinner than dough ; mix the dry 
ingredients first, beat the eggs and milk together, then mix all. Bake 
an hour and a quarter, or halC - 

French Apple Pudding. 

901. Bake some apples with sugar until they become a marmalade ; 
put them into a pie-dish already lined with puif-paste, make a custard 
with half a pint of milk and two eggs flavoured with butter and sweet 
almonds, and pour it on the apples. Bake in a slow oven, 

Manchester Pudding. 

902. A pint of new milk boiled, three ounces of bread crumbs 
stewed in the boiling milk, and the grated rind of a lemon, are to be 
sweetened to the taste with lump sugar; then add the yolks and 
whites of four eggs, and three ounces of butter melted. Line a disk 
with a pnif-paste, cover the bottom with preserve or marmalade, pour 
the pudding into it, and one hour will bake it. 

Chester Pudding. 

903. Take a stewpan, and oil two ounces of butter ; blanch twelve 
bitter and twelve sweet almonds, pound them in a mortar ; take four 
ounces of powdered loaf sugar, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, the 
rind of a large lemon grated, and the juice. Put all these ingredients 
into the butter in the stewpan, and stir constantly till quite hot. 
Then put it into a dish lined with pastry, and bake it half an hour. 
Beat the whites of the eggs till perfectly stifle, put them upon the top 
of the puddingy and put it in the oven tiW \l \& ^^\>^ «ccA S& ^l ^"^Aslp^;- 
brown colour. 



240 ENUUSH OOOXERT. 



P&ENCn PCDBZNS. 

904. Take half a pound of flour, half a pound of suet chopped 
fine, iuilf fl pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of treacle, and half 
A pis: of milk ; mix well, and boil in a basin three or four houi. 

MjLSXJIOBOrGH PCBDIKO. 

905. Put two ounces of candied-peel, shred fine, at the bottom cf 
A disli. adil six ounces of lump sugar pounded, six ounces of batter 
melted over the fire with six yolks of eggs, taking care not to let the 
cjrgs boil, or thcT will curdle. Pour this hot orcr the peeL Line the 
dish wiih jMStc, and bake lialf an hour, or more, tUl it ig moIuL It 
requires a hot oven just ax first, and then a nther slower heat. 

SxXEinE PUDBZKGB. 

90€. Wei|rh three egp^ in their shells, add the same wught for each 
of lump 8ii{rar. butter, and fine flour: beat up the ei^gs, whites and 
Tolktf together, for a quarter of an hour ; pound the sugar fine and sift 
ii ; ]>lace tlie butter l>efore the fire, and, when a little warmed, beat it 
to a froth with a wooden spoon : then mix the eggs and butter weQ 
togt*tiicT. after which add the flonr and then the sugar. Bake in a 
mould, loavinc room for its rising. It should be sent to table with 
melted butter and bran dr. 

THcmrs PrDDiya. 

90T. Put a larer of prcsen'es at the bottom of a pie-dish, and OTcr 
it p"dtoJ bread-crumbs three-quarters of an inch thick, pour orer them 
a custard ; bake in rather a cool oren twenty-five minutes. One 
quan of milk and four eggs makes custard enough for a good-sized 
]'udding. 

Kekpjll Ptn>DIKO. 

908. Line a dish with pnflT paste, put into it a layer of preserves an 
ineh tbii-k, consisting of two or three sorts of jam. Cover the top 
with two eggs well beaten, mixed with milk and sugar ; pour over 
until tlie dish is fulL Strew over lemon-peel chopped fine, and a 
little sifted sugar. Bake in a slow oven a nice brown. 

Essex Puddeko. 

909. Weigh three eggs, an equal weight of butter, flour, and 
|>oiiiided sugar; melt the butter and beat the eggs to a ftoth, add the 



RATAFIA PUDDINa 241 



fl'oar after the other ingredients are mixed. Put alternately a lajer 
of this hatter and one of preserves into a mould until full, then hake 
it for an hour and a half; turn out, and serve with white wine sauce. 

Bath Pudding. 

910. Boil four ounces of ground rice in one pint of cream till tender, 
and set it to cool. Add to it six jolks and two whites of eggs well 
beaten, with six ounces of pounded sugar, six ounces of hutter, thirty 
sweet almonds blanched and pounded, and one small glass of brandy. 
Mix all the ingredients well together, and bake a quarter of an hour 
or more. 

Bakbwell Pudding. 

911. Cover a dish with thin paste. Put a layer of jam of any kind, 
half an inch thick. Take the yolks of five eggs, and the white of one, 
rather less than one pound of sugar, and four ounces of butter melted, 
and a few well-pounded almonds. Beat all together until it is well 
mixed. Pour it into the dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for 

^an hour. They may be baked in pattypans to eat cold. 

Another, less rich. — ^The yolks of four eggs, whites of two well 
beaten, a quarter of a pound of melted butter, two ounces of almonds, 
sugar to taste, two potatoes boiled, dried, and mashed fine. Line a 
shallow dish with puif paste, put a layer of jam (strawberry is the best), 
and pour the batter upon it. Bake it well. 

Orange Marmalade Pudding. 

912. Take two table-spoonsful of marmalade, three ounces of butter 
melted, and one ounce of sugar. Beat this well together in a mortar. 
Add the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, and put it in a dish, 
immediately after which place it in the oven. Three-quarters of an 
hour will bake it. 

Ratafia Pudding. 

913. Soak two sponge-cakes as for trifle, put over them one or two 
kinds of preserves, beat the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one; 
add three-quarters of a pint of new milk and a little nutmeg, sweeten 
and flavour it ; pour it upon the cakes in the dish, place two ounces of 
ratafias on the top, and bake a quarter of an hour. 

Another, — ^Boil a quart of cream with tout \a.\«^\^w?^\ \.-ai«A'Ow«s^ 
oa^ and.break in half a pound of li^aplea Viacu\.\.%^ \Xife «».\!Cka oJl Vo^NKt\ 



S4- moL^s I iiiihiii r 

finm-- shcrn- and Tintmef:. ami a link- aalz. T&ke it tuff* dkc fire, eorer 
i: DT . whci. i; i- aimcHi: colJ. iniT ir two pomBBs uT Ifli m i iw .*^ almonds 
putec! finL. and tht yolk^ o: Hrv e{g!B. Hix aH T^smL MfsAcr, and 
baki iuftli aL lion: . Grati- a bi; of Bopcr over 3iie jm&finig. 

CoujHu: Pnsnzif Q&. 

91ii. Qratr the cnnnl> of & twopennv lonilslmfl Qi^it«nflHeiof met, 
and miz witl: ci^h: nnncef of cnrrants. onp of oitrcm smiiieed *»*>^ one 
of nran^n.. l handtal of RngaT. half a nntmeig. llirae cgpf^ ^- i i ^m , Tolk 
and wliiti separately, asid a ^lav of bnoidv. Kik. end acakia into the 
UK and shape of it prKwe-eji^. Pni half a ponnd of booer znso a frviog- 
pai.. and. whex. melted and qnite hot. fry them gaath- in it oner a stove ; 
tnn. them two or three times till of a fine li^da 'fanywn. Serve with 
padding sauce. 

COUAOE P1IFV&. 

910. Take half a pint of thin cream, three e^js, ■ mln^i pn tend Tolks, 
one tablespoonfdl of flour, some nutmeg, and 1^ ped of one lemoa 
prated. Sweeten to your taste. Put it in smaU teaaqtt ; bake it three- 

(juiirten of bl hour. Serve- i: up with sweet sanre. 

A PorKD Vmiaw^. 

91G. Bca; half l pound of fresh butter with the same qnantitv of 
lo:.f-?ufraT til- it i*- like cream, then add six e|:r:s, all well beaten 
Pf j)urate)y. half a j>ound of flour, and flavour it "with lemon-peel or 
candied jieeL After the ingredients are aH mixed, beat the whole for 
ten minuter ; then put them into small tins and bake thrai. 

Little Stonge-caks PrBDixGa. 

917. Mix three eggs, leaving out one white, three onsees of powdered 
luiLp pngar, three ounces or spoonsful of flour, three ounces of butter 
beaten. A dd the eggs and then the flour, then the sugar, beating each 
before adding the other. Bake about a quarter of an hour in little 
caps, putting in the oven as soon as beaten ; laj a little orange marma- 
lade on them when baked. 

AnotfuT.—BeMi the whites of two and the yolks of fonr eggs, and 
into that beat six ounces of sugar siited, and four ounces of flour dried 
for a few minutes, till well mixed. Put a spoonful into a cup buttered 
(rather more for a pudding), and bake in a quick oven. This quantit/ 
Wttl make ten or twelre cakes. Wine sauce with the puddings. 



LIGHT GERMAN FUFFS OB PUDDINGS. 243 



High Tbacup Puddings. 

918. Scald five ounces of crumbs of bread in milk, and add six 
ounces of suet chopped very fine, eight ounces of currants, seven eggs, 
leaying out two whites, three table-spoonsful of brandy, a little nut- 
meg, salt, lemon, and candied-peel and sugar to the taste. Bake in 
teacups, and serve with wine sauce. 

Little Citron Puddings. 

919. Take half a pint of cream, one spoonful of fine fiour, two 
ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg ; mix it well together with the yolks 
of three eggs, put it in teacups (five are enough), and stick in it two 
ounces of citron cut very thin. Bake in a pretty quick oven, 

Madeira Puddings. 

920. Take three eggs, weigh against them in their shell sugar, flour, 
and butter, separately ; beat the butter to a cream, beat the eggs well, 
mix, and beat together, adding the sugar; then put into cups, and 
bake in a quick oven. Serve with wine sauce poured over them, 

Prussia Puffs. 

921. Make a light batter, and put in some candied orange-peel. 
Bake in cups, and serve with wine sauce* 

Spanish Puffs. 

922. Take a large breakfast-cup of milk with a small piece of 
butter; let it come to a boil, but, before it boils up, mix in flour 
with the left hand, while stirring as quickly as possible with the 
right, till nearly as thick as dough. Take it oif the fire, and drop in 
three yolks of eggs, mixing one thoroughly before adding another. 
Then turn it out into a plate, and take a small piece oif with the end 
of a spoon. Fry it in lard, of a nice brown. Sprinkle with sugar and 
serve in a napkin. 

Light German Puffs or Puddings. 

923. Melt three ounces of butter in one pint of cream, and let it 
stand till nearly cold ; then mix with it two ounces of fine flour, two 
ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, and a little ros^ 
or orange-flower water. Butter some \\U\ft c\v^%^ ^ova Va. ^^Vasj?^- 
dleatt^ and bake for half an hour. They ftho\iV^\k^ VsJkjso. wjX. ^^^ "^^av 



244 XZTGUSH COOKXBT. 



cups and served the moment they are done, or they will be heayy; 
serve with white wine and sugar. 

Oxford Fuddinos. 

924. Take half a pound of suet chopped fine, grate two pennj loaTes 
and half a pound of currants, the yolks of six eggs, a quarter of a 
pound of lump sugar, a little nutmeg, one ounce of candied lemon-peel, 
and a glass of sherry or brandy ; mix this all together till it is stif^ 
divide into seven or eight parts and fry, or in balls, a light brown ; 
serve with wine sauce. 

Ballooh Puddiwo. 

925. Add three table-spoonsful of flour to five eggs, mix them with 
a pint of new milk, in which put a small lump of butter ; warm the 
milk sufficiently to melt the butter. Butter some teacups, and fill 
them half full. Bake a quarter of an hour ; serve with wine sauce. 

Cup RicB Puddings. 

926. Steep a teacupfnl of rice in rather less than a quart of milk, 
add four eggs beaten, two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of 
currants, sugar to the taste, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; a little 
cream is a great improvement. Bake in cups, and serve with wine 

sauce. 

EvKRTON Pudding (small.) 

927. Take three eggs and their weight in sugar, pounded and sifVed. 
♦he same weight of flour and butter, and half a lemon. Put altogether, 
excepting the eggs, and beat them twenty minutes. The eggs must 
ftlso be well beaten, then added to the other ingredients, and the 
uhole well beaten. Bake in cups half an hour in a cool oven. 

Souffle Pudding. 

928. Baked. — ^Take eight rusks or buns, and soak them thoroughly 
in a pint of milk. Make a custard of eight beaten eggs and a pint and 
a half of milk, stir in a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and flavour 
with vanilla or almond, or rub the sugar on lemons before sifting. 
Beat and stir the rusk to a smooth mass, and add the custard by 
degrees, stirring well. Bake in a brisk oven rather more- than ten 
minutes, and serve with sifted sugar over it. The yeast in the msk 
ifill cause it to puff up light. 



eve's pudding. 245 

929. Souffle Pudding Boiled, — ^Three table-spoonfuls of flour, a quar- 
ter of a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, half a pint of milk ; 
srir altogether over the fire till quite thick ; then mix the jolks of six 
eggs with the batter, and, the last thing before boiling, add three of the 
whites whisked to a strong froth ; steam very slowly in a stewpau 
with very little water one hour, pour apricot jam over when turned 
out, or flavour it with ginger or any other flavour, and dish with wine 
sauce. The mould should not be more than three parts full. 

Another, — ^Take a pint of new milk, put half into the stewpan, and 
mix the other half with five spoonsful of fine flour. Let the milk be 
scalding hot, then stir in the other milk and flour. Let it all scald 
Ave minutes, stirring it all the time. Then take five eggs, stir in the 
yolks. Beat the whites to a froth, and when cold mix them all 
together. Sweeten to taste, flavour with any thing you like ; strain it 
stick the mould with any dried fruit. Put a buttered paper under the 
cloth. Boil it an hour and a half, and take it off five minutes before 
it is wanted. 

Another. — ^Boil half a pint of very thin cream with lemon-peel, 
cinnamon, and sugar ; let it stand till cold, then add four ounces of 
butter, two handfuls of flour, five yolks of eggs, the whites beat up to 
a stiff froth, and a little wine or brandy ; (first put the butter and flour 
into a stewpan, and melt them together, theu stir in the cream, &c.^ 
that has been boiled, then the five yolks of eggs, one at a time.) Mix 
all together over the fire, take it off, add the whites, and boil for one 
hour, as above. 

DoTOH Wafer Puddings. 

930. Set a pint of cream over the fire, and stir in half a pound of 
butter ; then beat into it a quarter of a pound of flour well dried* 
Take seven eggs, leaving out four whites, beat them well, and mix 
them with the other ingredients in an earthen pan ; set it before tho 
fire for an hour, then put it into small patty-pans or saucers, and bake 
them in a hot oven till they are brown ; turn them out, and serve at 
once with good wine sauce poured over them. 

Eve's Pudding. 

931. Weigh four eggs in their shells, and add the same weight <\£ 
flour, sugar, and butter ; beat the butter luto ct^wii, ^««i \s£»^ '^^ 
noar, beating it with the butter, then tlie BU^at \ «i^^ ^ \\VC«k «&xo"^ 

bitter and sweet almonds, or lemon-pe^\ •, ^>i^a^ \\^^ ^^^•»'^^!**^ "^^ 



246 KSGU8H OOOKBBT. 

and whites lepftrmte, and mix them in sqiaratelj ; tiien lightlj grease 
some small pattj-pans; pnt a small qnantitj in each, and let them 
rise ten minates before the fire, after which pat them into the oren, 

Induls Msul Puffs (^AtKorkem), 

932. Boil a qnart of milk, and stir into it, gradoany, eight hffgb 
table-spoonfals of Indian meal ; four large table-spoonfols of powdered 
sugar ; and a grated nutmeg. Stir it hard ; letting it boil a quarter 
of an hour after all the Indian meal is in. Then take it ap, and set 
it to cooL While it is cooling, beat eight eggs as light as possible, 
and stir them graduallj into the batter when it is quite cold. Batter 
some large teacups; nearlj fill them with the mixtare, set them into s 
moderate oren, and bake them welL Send them to table warm, and 
eat them with butter and molasses; or with batter, sogar, lemon- 
juice, and nutmeg stirred to a cream. Thej mast be tamed oat of the 
cups. 

Pricklbss FuDDmo. 

933. Add to the yolks and whites of five eggs their weigiht in sugar, 
flour, and butter ; first beating the butter to a cream, then adding the 
sugar, the eggs, and the flour, one after the other ; lastly, a good hand- 
ful of raisius, and the rind of one lemon ; beat all together, and boilit 
in a mould seven hours : serve with wine sauce in a boat. 

German Pudding. 

934. Two ounces of fine flour, two ounces of powdered sugar, two 
ounces of butter, eight eggs, leaving out four of the whites, a little 
orange-flower water, and white wine; melt the batter with some 
cream, mix all well together, and bake in small cups. 

Another. — Half a pound of bread-crumbs, six ounces of butter, half 
a pound of brown sugar, half an ounce of mixed spice (the cinnamon 
should predominate), four eggs. Mix the bread-crumbs, sugar, yolk 
of eggs, and the butter (just melted), the spice, and a little salt, 
altogether in a large basin, then add the whipped white of eggs. Pat 
it into a mould, and bake or steam in a moderate oven one hour. 

The above ingredients are sufficient to make one large padding or 
two small ones. 

Another, — ^Take a piece of crumb of bread, as much as you think 

will fill a mould. Pour over it some boiling milk ; when soaked^ drain 

U oo A sieve, and sqaeeze it in a c\o\\\^ vYl^ti \^^«x it <^ite fine with a 



ADELAIDE PX7DDIKGS. 247 



fork. Put a lump of butter, some sugar, four or fiye eggs; whip the 
whites, flavour it with bitter almonds, do not make it too soft. Butter 
and paper your mould. Put in a rather deep layer the first, then a 
little preser\'e, then more of the mixture, until the mould is full. Do 
not put too much jam for fear it should run on the outside of the pud- 
ding, which would spoil the look of it. Tie it tight down, and steam it 
one hour and a half. Take it up fire minutes before wanted, and make 
the sauce, for which see page 254. 

Albion Pudding. 

935. Take a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and beaten, 
half a pound of loaf sugar, six eggs, and nutmeg to taste. Beat the 
eggs well up with the sugar over the fire till hot, but not boiling. 
When cold, add the almonds, and beat again ; pour the mixture into a 
buttered dish and bake it. 

Sib Watkins' Pudding. 

936. Mix half a pound of suet chopped fine, half a pound of bread- 
crumbs, a quarter of a pound of orange marmalade, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar (moist), six eggSt Mix all the ingredients well, with the yolks 
of the eggs unbeaten ; take the whites, and whisk them to a stifi" froth ; 
mix altogether. Clear it, and let it stand one hour ; butter a mouldy 
steam it two hours. Serve it with marmalade, or the syrup from 
preserved oranges, or with wine sauce. 

Calvbs-foot Pudding. 

937. Boil two calves feet till tender, then chop very fine and mix 
with the same weight of suet, grated bread, currants and sugar, an 
apple, a small nutmeg, and six well-beaten eggs. Bake in an oven 
till done. 

Yeomanrt Pudding. 

938. Take three ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter melted, 
three eggs well beaten, leaving out half the whites ; mix all together, 
and put them into a dish lined with paste ; put apricot or any other 
preserve at the bottom, and bake it. 

Adelaide Puddings. 

939. Beat the jolks of eight eggs and w\L\te» i>^ V«q, «sA^BS!cf^'S(v>SiQk 
nxomxcea of lump sugar and six oimcea o£ \iuX\«t yoaN. \os2^«^\^s"«^5^ 



248 ENGLISH OOOKEBY. 



some cups, and put a little preserre or orange ma r malad e at the bottom 
of each (the cups should be small). Bake twenty, minuteB. Tbej 
may be senred with wine sauce. 

ViGTOBIA FUDDDTO. 

940. Pour a pint of boiling milk upon the cmmb of a twopennj 
French roll ; cover it till nearly cold, then add a few sweet and bitter 
almonds well pounded, a little sifted sugar, a table-apoonfiil of brandy, 
and three yolks of eggs well beaten. Butter the basin or mould, Isj 
sweetmeats, citron, or raisins about it in any pattern you like, four 
the pudding in quite cold, boil it well, and serve with wine -sauce. 

CjiEJUf Cocoa-nut PuDDnsra. 

941 . Grate a large cocoa-nut fine. Stir together a quarter of a poimd 
of butter, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar till quite light Best 
six eggs, and mix them gradually with one pint of cream, or cream and 
milk mixed ; stir all together well. Put the mixture into a dish and 
bake it. Serve either hot or cold with sifted sugar : this pudding naajr 
be baked in puff paste. 

A Spoonful Pudding. 

942. One spoonful of flour, one of cream, one Qgg, a little nutmeg, 
ginger, and salt. Mix them well together, and boil half an hour. A 
few currants may be considered an improvement. 

Tower Pudding. 

943. Mix half a pound of grated bread, half a pound of apples 
chopped fine, three ounces of suet, and half a pound of sugar ; press it 
hard into the dish, and either boil or bake it. 

Babford Podding. 

944. Take one pound of beef suet, one pound of raisins, five well- 
beaten eggs, four spoonfuls of flour, six ounces of loaf sugar, half a 
nutmeg, and a little salt ; mix them well, put them in a basin, and boil 
four hours. 

Cumberland Pudding. 

945, Mix six ounces of ftour, six. ouxvoi^a o^ Ott«v^^^ «:^^les^ fonr 
ounces ofcurr&nta, and four ouxiceB ol aue-x., \Jat«ife ^^^^^ ^>^xx\fei»&ss«^ 



THE ELEGANT ECONOMIST'S PUDDING. 2A0 

i and salt, boil it two hours, torn it out into the dish, and pour wine 
I sauce over it. 

Chbshire Pudding (Excellent). 

946. Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour, and the yolks of three eggs 
7 with a pint of cream ; stir it on the flre till it thickens ; .sweeten and 
g flavour to taste, pour into a dish and bake. Before sending it to table, 

grate fine sugar over it, and brown it with a salanuinder. 

HCREFORDSHIBE PUDDINO. 

947. Chop fine a quarter of a pound of suet, and mix it with a 
quarter of a pound of apples, a quarter of a pound of currants, half 
a pound of flour, a spoonful of sugar, two eggs, and half a pint of 
milk. Bake an hour. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

948. Scrape down very fine two ounces of prepared chocolate, and 
add to it a tea-spoonful of nutmeg and cinnamon mixed. Put it into 
a saucepan, and pour over it a quart of rich milk, stirring it well ; 
cover it, and let it come to a boil. Then stir up the chocolate, and 
press out all the lumps ; repeat this until it is quite smooth. Then 
stir in by degrees, while it boils, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, 
and set it to cool. Beat eight eggs very well, and pour through a 
strainer to the chocolate ; stir well, and bake. This pudding should 
be eaten cold. 

Cheese Pudding. 

949. Take three ounces of grated cheese, a tea-cupful of grated bread, 
a good pinch of salt and white pepper, four egg^ leaving out two of the 
whites, and half a pint of good cream ; beat all together, and put it into 
a mould lined with writing-paper. Half an hour will bake it ; take it 
out of the mould, and send it to table in the paper in which it was 
baked. 

The Elegant Economist's Pudding. 

950. Fill a pie-dish with slices of cold plum-pudding, within about 
an inch of the top, fill the dish up with a cold custard made of two 
egcfs, three tea-spoonfuls of sugar, and the same of ftowt \ \%X.\^^\tco^^\a 
soak for an hour before it is put in the o^eiv, Wi^\i^^''A ^<a?Q^»'^^ 

Mine time as a bread and butter puddiw^. 



250 ESiiaLISH OOOKBRT. 



A BiCH FuDDnra. 

951. Line your dish with rich puff-paste, corer the bottom with 
preserred stoned cherries or any kind of dried froit (or, as a snbstitnte, 
Sultana raisins), with the grated xind and juice of a lenum ; coTer it 
with slices of roll buttered and cut thin, two or three more layers of 
preserve and roll to nearly the top of the dish, sifting sugar between 
each layer; just before baking pour over it seyen eggs well beaten, a 
spoonful of cream, and plenty of birandy. 

LiDT Mabt Lowtues's Puddiko. 

952. Mix half a pint of water, four spoonfuls of wine, a little sugar 
and salt, the rind and half the juice of one lemon, and a quarter of a 
pound of butter; put these on the fire till dissolved; when nearly cold, 
add a quarter of a pound of flour, and mix thoroughly. When quite 
cold, add three eggs very well beaten, again put all on the fire, and 
then bake them in cups. 

Cold FoDDUfa. 

953. Take a pint of cream, the rind of one lemon, a blade or two of 
mace, and sugar to your taste, boil them together, take out the lemon 
peel and beat it in a mortar, put it through a sieve and then put the 
cream to it. Let it stand till nearly cold, then pour the cream gently 
over the yolks of eight or six eggs beaten up. Mix all well together, 
and put it into a mould with a lid upon it, then put it over a slow fire, 
and let it boil gently for half an hour. Turn it out of the mould while 
warm ; let it stand till cold, and then pour some melted currant jelly 
over it. 

A Nut PuDDiNa. 

954. Grate two penny rolls and pound an equal weight of blanched 
small nuts steeped a night in cold water, add half a pound of chopped 
suet and marrow, half a ponnd of loaf sugar, a pint and a half of cream, 
the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, flavour with a little nutmeg 
and a pinch of salt, and, if liked, add citron and orange peel. Bake it 
in a dish lined with pufl'-paste for one hour and a half. 

Noviob's Pudding. 

955. Beat well the whites of eight eggs, and mix with them half a 
ponnd of Joaf-sngar by degrees. Stir the mixture into a pint of good 



LEMOK DT7VPLIKGN9. 251 



milk (flavoured with vanilla or sherry) alternately with four ounces of 
flour, a spoonful at a time ; beat it very hard, put it in rather a quick 
oven, and bake it well. Serve cold. 

Curd Puffs, or Puddings. 

956. Turn a quart of new milk to a curd with rennet, drain in a 
cloth, and then rub through a sieve with a quarter of a pound of butter 
beaten ; add two ounces of ground rice, or a quarter of a pound of 
bread-crumbs, a little nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, a spoonful of wine 
and brandy, and sugar to your taste. Bake a little more than half an 
hour in buttered cups. 

Sect. 3. — ^Dumplings. 

Bread and Suet Dumplings. 

957. Take half a pound of grated bread, half a pound of suet cut 
small, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, a quarter of a pound of 
moist sugar, and two eggs. Mix all together, and make it into five 
dumplings ; boil them in cloths half an hour, and serve with sweet 
sauce in the dish. 

Another, — ^Take equal quantities of bread and suet, a little salt (some 
nutmeg or other spice), and a table-spoonful of white wine. Mix all well 
together, and roll them up ; when the water boils throw them in, and 
let them boil for half an hour. Flour the hands well whilst rolling 
them. This quantity is for a penny loaf. 

EicE Balls. 

958. To a quarter of a pound of rice add a pint and a half of milk, 
and boil it with a little cinnamon, sugar, and lemon-peel, until it is 
quite tender ; allow it to remain till cold, and then make it into balls. 
Beat up an egg, and roll the balls in it, and afterwards in grated 
bread-crumbs. Pry them in lard, drain them on a piece of paper, and 
serve them up covered with sifted sugar. 

Lemon Dumplings. 

959. Take the juice and rind of a lemon, and from four to eight 
ounces of bread ; grate both very fine, and add a quarter of a pound 
of suet chopped fine, a quarter of a poutv^ o^ "rn^yv^^ voL^iKt^WN.^N:^'^^ 
eggs; mix all well together, put it In tencwp^ \.\^^ wx V\\Ja. O^oJQsv^*^^ 

iHfil or bake them three-quarters of an. )io\it. 



253 EVGUflS OOOKKBT. 

Sc£T DuxFLnros. 

9G0. Make as for saet padding (which see), mnd drop into boiling 
water, or ioto the boilings of beef; or they maj be boiled in a doth. 

Teast or Sufvolk Duxfldtos. 

961. Make a Tcry light dongh with jeast, as for bread, bat with 
milk instead of water, and add salt. Let it rise an hour before th« 
fire. Twenty minutes before they are to be serred, have ready a 
large stewpan of boiling water, make the dongh into balls the size of 
a middling apple, throw them in, and boil twenty minutes. To 
ascertain when they are done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and 
if it comes out clear, it is done. Before serving, tear them apart on 
the top with two forks, for they become heavy by their own steam. 
Serve with meat, or sngar and batter, or salt. 

Apfle Dumflikos. 

962. Pare large apples (codlins are the best), scoop ont the core 
with a small knife, then cover with a thin suet or butter crusty made 
as for paddings, and tie up in a cloth, to boil for twenty minutes to 
half an hour. Or^ they may be baked. 

Small Apple Dcmplixos. 

963. Pare the apples, scoop out the cores, fill up the space with 
moist suyar and lemon-peel. Boil them in cups with a thin paste 
round them ; when done, pour custard upon them. Apples prepared 
ill this way, with a thin paste round them and baked on flat tins, are 
excellent. 

CimRi.ifT DuMPLnros 

964. Are made as for suet pudding, mixing in with the flonr about 
one quarter of its weight of foreign currants, picked and washed. 
After mixing, the mass is divided into dumplings, and boiled in cloths. 

Sect. 4. — Puddiso Sauces. 

COMMOX WiXE SaUCB. 

96.5. Make thin a few ounces of melted butter (see page 105), then 
add from a table-spoon fal to two of coarsely pounded lump sugar, and 
a glass of sherry, with half a glass of brandy: a little grated lemon- 
peel or nutmeg or both together, are improvements* 



OEBXJLS^^ SAUCE. 253^ 



k 



t 

i 



Abbowsoot Sauce fob PuDDnras. 

966. Mix a smaU tea-spoonfal of arrowroot with a little cold water, 
and boil a large tea-cupful of sheny or raisin- wine with sugar enough 

' to sweeten it. Make the arrowroot with this, and pour over the pud- 
ding. It is an improYement to rub a lump or two of the sugar on 
lemon-peeL 

BuBNT Cbeam Sauce. 

967. Put two ounces of sifted sugar on the fire, in a small saucepan, 
stir it, and when quite brown pour slowly in a gill of thin cream, stir- 
ring it all the time. To bd used as a sauce to custard, or batter 
pudding. 

Sweet Pudding Sauce without "Wine. 

968. This is made with melted butter, a little cream added, sweetened 
to the palate, and flavoured with nutmeg, cinnamon, or mace. 

Plum Pudding Sauce. 

969. Add to four ounces of melted butter, or thick arrowroot, an 
ounce and a half of each of the following; viz., sherry, French brandy, 
and cura9oa ; sweeten to the taste, and add also a little nutmeg and 
lemon-peel grated. 

Fbuit Sauces. 

970. These are easily made for any plain puddings, by stewing the 
fresh firuit with rather less sugar than for preserving, and adding water 
till they are of the proper consistence for a sauce. Some cooks mix 
a little arrowroot with the water, and then strain before serving. 

Gebman Sauce. 

971. A quarter of a pint of white wine (hoek is the best) with a 
little lemon-juice, the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and sweetened 
with loaf sugar to the taste. Put all into a jng ^ the wine first, to 
prevent the tgg sticking. Let the jug stand in a saucepan of boiling 
water, whilst the sauce is melted and worked to a complete froth with 
a whisk or chocolate mill. If the water gets cool before the sauce 
comes to a froth, add more boiling water. The sauce (made only yist 
before it is wanted) maj be served in a «8i\x«.^ Voa^^a, ^st ^s^'o. '^^ 

pudding. 



254 ENGLISH OOOXEBT. 



Sauce for Gbrxah Pudding^ 

972. Take the yolks of two eggs, with a little togar and a teacnpfiil 
of sherry wine ; whisk it over the fire, bat do not let it get too hot or 
it will cnrdle, it should be stiff; whisk it nntil it is wanted, and 
pour it oyer your pudding. 

Boiled Tbeaolb. 

973. Boiled treacle is an excellent accompaniment to hasty pndding^ 
or to arrowroot and milk the consistency of hasty puddings or to yeast 
dumplings. 

Rasfbesrt Stsuf. 

974. Raspberry vinegar and raspberry syrup are good as sances to 
bread or batter puddings, and the latter also to arrowroot hlancmange. 



CHAPTER XX.— PANCAKES, SWEET OMELETS, AND SOUFFLES. 

Sect. L — ^Pancakes and Frittees. 

975. Pancakes are made by forming a common batter, and then 
frying this in a thin layer. When of a large size they are called pan- 
cakes ; and when so small as to allow of several being fried in the 
same pan, they are called fritters. These are often mixed with apples, 
currants, &c. Omelets are made in a similar way, the ingredients 
being slightly different, and being also fried in thicker layers as to 
substance. There is a little art in turning the pancake, which, by a 
clover cook, is " tossed " in the air and caught again as it falls ; but 
this is not by any means necessary, as with the aid of a common fork 
the edge may easily be raised, and the whole turned over. The fiying 
is conducted upon the principles described at page 54. 

To Beat Eggs. 

976. The following excellent remarks on the proper mode of effecting 
this apparently simple operation, are extracted from Miss Leslie's book 
on Cookery ; — " Those who do not know the right way, complain much 
of the fatigue of beating eggs, and therefore leave off too soon. Then 
will be no fatigue if they are beaten with the proper stroke, and with 



BIOR PAlfCAKES, FRIED WITHOUT BX7TTER OB LABD. 255 



aooden rods, and in a shallow, flat-bottomed earthen pan. The coldness 
>f a tin pan retards the lightness of the eggs. For the same reason do 
lot nse a metal egg-beater. In beating them do not move the elbow, 
but keep it close to the side. Move only the hand at the wrist, and 
let the stroke be quick, short, and horizontal; patting the egg-beater 
Always down to the bottom of the pan, which should therefore be shal- 
low. Do not leaye off as soon as the eggs are in a foam ; they are 
then only beginning to be light. But persist till after the foaming has 
ceased, and the bubbles have all disappeared. Continue till the sur- 
face is smooth as a mirror, and the beaten egg as thick as a rich boiled 
custard ; for till then it will not be really light. It is seldom neces- 
sary to beat the whites and yolks separately, if they are afterwards to 
be put together. The article will be quite as light, when cooked, if 
the whites and yolks are beaten together, and there will then be no 
danger of their going in streaks when baked. When white of egg is 
to be used without any yolk (as for macaroons, meringues, icing, &c.), 
it should be beaten till it stands alone on the rods, not falling when 
beld up." 

Common Pancakes. 

977. Make a light batter of three spoonfuls of flour, three eggs well 
t>eaten, and half a pint of milk, some of which, with the eggs, is to be 
nixed with the flour ; to the other part, put three ounces of butter 
melted. Then mix altogether, and put into the frying-pan in a very 
thin layer. Fry with lard or dripping ; but do not put any butter into 
;he pan to f^ them after the first frying, as they will give out enough 
iifterwards to keep up the stock. Sugar and lemon should be served 
to eat with them. Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with 
Sour, small beer, ginger, &c. Or, clean snow with flour and very little 
milk will serve, but not nearly as well as eggs. 

KicH Pancakes, Fbied without Buttbb ok Lakd. 

978. Beat six fresh eggs extremely well, and mix when strained with 
% pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg 
{rated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary 
pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe 
It with a clean cloth ; then pour in the batter to make thva '^«Xk!c:»Ji.^'%>> 
Hid watch them that they do not bum, ^loiO;! \&\Q\k^ Y^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
[ftgaing tbem* 



256 ENOUBB OOOKSE7. 



RiGB Fakcakss. 

979. Boil half a pound of rice to a jellj in a small qaatDti^ of wmtar ; 
w-hen cold mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and 
nutmeg ; stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much 
flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or 
dripping as possible. 

New ExoLAiTD Pancakes. 

980. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine floor, seyen yolks 
and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in 
fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up 
six or eight at once. 

Cbsah Pancakes. 

981. Take half a pint of cream, four eggs well beaten, two ooncot 
of butter, a table>spoonful of brandy, and a little sugar and nntmeg;. 
melt the butter in the cream, and mix all together with a spoonful of 
fine flour. Butter the pan for the first pancake, and let them run as 
tiiin as possible. Serve with sugar sifted between each pancake. 
Tiiis quantity will make about ten ; the pan should be smaller than 
for common pancakes. 

Fritters, 

982. Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes, by 
dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer sort, and 
pnt pared -apple sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it 
^vith each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an 
agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served on a folded 
napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat or ripe fruit may be made 
into fritters, 

Spanish Fritters. 

983. Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as the 
finger, in any approved shape. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, 
and pounded cinnamon, beaten up with an egg. When well soaked, 
fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. 

Potato Fritters. 

984. Boil two large potatoes, mash them well, beat four yolks and 



INDIAN MEAL FRITTERS. 257 

— — — » 

three whites of eggs^ and add to the above with one large spoonful of 

cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. 
Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. 
Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful 
of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; and serve with a sauce 
composed of a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert- 
spoonful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar warmed 
together, or the common wine sauce (which see). 

Brbid Fhittbrs. 

985. Pick, wash, and dry half a pound of Zante currants, and, 
having spread them out oa a flat dish, dredge them well with flour. 
Grate some bread into a pan till yoii have a pint of crumbs. Pour 
over the grated bread a pint of boiling milk, in which has been stirred, 
as soon as taken from the fire, a piece of fresh butter the size* of an 
egg. Cover the pan, and let it stand an hour. Then beat it hard, and 
add nutmeg and a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar, stirred 
in gradually, and two table-spoonfuls of the best brandy. Beat six 
eggs till very light, and then stir them by degrees into the mixture, 
lisstly, add the currants, a few at a time ; and beat the whole ver)'' 
hard. It should be a thick batter. If it turns out too thin, add a 
little flour. Have ready over the fire a hot frying-pan with boiling 
lard. Put in the batter in large spoonfuls (so as not to touch), and 
fry the fritters a light brown. Drain them on a perforated skimmer, 
or an inverted sieve placed in a deep pan, and send them to table hot. 
fcJerve them with wine and powdered sugar. 

Apple Pbitters. 

986. Mix together half a pint of milk, two large table-spoonfdls of 
flour, one of sugar, two apples chopped fine, and a very small quantity 
of carbonate of soda ; put a dessert-spoonful into the pan, and firy them 
a light brown. 

Indian Meal Fbittess. 

987. Having beaten eight eggs very light, stir them gradually into a 
quart of rich milk, in turn with twelve large table-spoonfuls of yellow 
Indian meal, adding a salt-spoon of salt. When all is in, stir the 
whole very hard. Have ready over a clear fire, va. «k"^Q,\. at ^X-ax^^ 
frying-pan, a pound of fresh lard, boiling fast*, ftio^ ^fe\i^\Jv«t\a\ft>^'-» 

M ladlefal at a time. If you find the batlex Xoo \\iva., ^^^ '^^"^ '"'' ' 



258 KNQLISn COOKERZ 



little more ludian racaL As the lard boils awaj, repleniBh it with 
more. As fast as they arc done, take out each fritter with a per- 
forated skimmer ; through the holes of which let the lard drip back 
into the poL The fritters mnst all be well drained. Send them tu 
table hot, and eat them with wine and sugar, or with molasses. In 
cooking these fritters, you may drop in three or four, one immediately 
after another ; they will not run if the lard is boiling fast, and the 
batter thick enough, and made with the proper number of eggs. 

RiCB Fritters. 

988. Boil three table-spoonfuls of rice in water until it swells to the 
full size, then drain it quite dry, and mix with it four eggs well beaten, 
a quarter of a pound of currants, a little grated lemon-peel, nutmeg 
and sugar to the taste. Stir in as much flour as will thicken it, and fiy 
ija lard. If they do not brown quickly add a little more flour. 

Cream Fritters. 

989. Take four eggs well beaten, two ounces of iiBe sugar, a little 
cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, and salt, half a pound of sponge biscuits 
grated, or, if you prefer stale bread-crumbs, more sugar must be 
used. Mix this with a pint of cream and flour, or bread crumbs, enough 
to make it thicker than batter for pancakes. Fill the frying-pan with 
lard, and when it boils throw in the fritters with a knife from a plate. 
Sift sugar over them and serve in a napkin, or squeeze orange juice 
upon the sugar over them, and pile them, on a dish without the 
napkin. 

Sect. 2. — Souffles and Omelets. 

990. Souifl(fs are elegant and delicious preparations of eggs and 
milk, variously flavoured, the latter with cheese, and whisked into a 
froth, as directed at the beginning of this section. After which they 
are baked, the heat of the oven keeping up the frothing until the 
material of the egg is set ; but great care is necessary to avoid the 
falling down of the souifld as soon as it is removed from the oven, and 
some cooks stand guard over their handiwoi'k with a salamander, until 
the moment when they enter the dining-roonu 

Sweet Souffle. 

991. Take a pint of milk and as much flour as will come to a thick 
J»&8te OTcr the stoye ; keep stirring it all the time, add six yolks of 



FBIAB's OMELET& 259 



eggs and a pinch of salt, as much sugar as you like. Beat eight whites 
of eggs all to a froth, stir them all together. To he put into the oven a 
quarter of an hour before wanting it — the oven must be quick. Glaze 
it with white sugar, and send quickly to table. It may be made with 
ground rice. The rind of a lemon grated, or lemon juice, gives it a 
uice flavour. 

Souffle of Bice and Apples. 

992. Steep one and a half teacupful of rice in milk, add the pulp of 
five good-sized apples, sweeten the whole, and put it into a dish. 
Then beat the whites of two eggs with two ounces of sifted lump sugar, 
and pour it over the rice ; and, just before you put it in the oven, dust 
a little sugar on the top of it. 

Strawbebbt OB Apple Soufflbi. 

993. Stew the apples with a little lemon-peel, sweeten them, then lay 
them pretty high round the inside of a dish ; make a custard of the 
yolks of two eggs, a little cinnamon, sugar, and milk. liCt it thicken 
over a slow fire, but not boil. When ready, pour it in the inside of the 
apple. Beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and cover the 
Avhole. Throw over it a good deal of pounded sugar, and brown it of 
ft fine brown. Any fruit made of a proper consistence does for the 
walls. Strawberries when ripe are delicious. 

Souffle of Potatoes with Lemon. 

994. Boast about ten potatoes ; when they are done, open them, and 
scoop out the floury part, and mix it with half a pint of cream that has 
boiled, and in which has been infused the peel of a lemon ; add some 
butter, a pinch of salt and a little lump sugar, not too much, lest your 
souffle should not be light, but enough to give flavour. Add the yolks 
of four eggs to the above. Then beat the whites of six eggs, and mix 
with the rest. Pour it gently into a dish, and bake in a moderate 
oven. When done, sift a little sugar over it, and brown with the 
salamander. It should be served up immediately. 



Friab*s Omelets. 



995. Prepare twelve apples as for sauce, and stir in a quarter of a 
pound of sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter \ 'vV'^^iL^cXi^^^^^^s^^ 
6gg8 well beaten, and fry in butter ox lard ma.^^ n grj Vox^ ^& lqt'^-t5eagcw 
frying, or proceed as follows : Well butter & ^\s\i, a\x«sR \st<a»^.-««:^»^ 



2 GO E!7GUSH OOOKSBT, 



or Termicelli over it, so as to make them stick to it, put in the nnxtiiR, 
then strew crumbs or Termicelli plentifully over the top ; whea baked, 
turn it out of the dish and strew sugar oyer. 

FRXNcn Promises. 

996. Mix together half a pint of milk, two tea-spoonfhls of fVead 
brandy, one egg, and a little grated ginger. Make it with flonr a 
proper thickness for pancakes^ and drop into s ftying-pan with thehrJ 
very hot. 

A SwEBT Omelet. 

997. Mix and crush nx macaroons with a little brandy sad ax 
ounces of sifted sugar ; beat the yolks of six eggs smooth, and add tlie 
other ingredients to this gradually. Have ready the whites, beaten to 
a stiff froth, and stir in a little at a time ; then melt four ounces (/ 
butter in an omelet pan, and put in the mixture, stirring to the last 
When the omelet is hot, and has begun to colour, transfer it to a 
buttered dish, and bake from fire to ten minutes, till it is pnSed. 
Sift sugar over, and serve immediately. 

Omelette Souffle. 

998. Beat the yolks of six eggs, put to them four spoonfuls of sagar 
and a little essence of lemon ; work these well together, whip the 
whites of the eggs till they are firm, mix altogether ; butter your frying' 
pan, put in the omelette, and set it on a slow fire, taking care that it 
does not bum. Turn it out upon the dish it is to be served in, glaie 
it by throwing sugar over it, put a little preserve on the top, fold 
it over, put it in the oven till risen, glaze and serve. 



CHAP. XXL— CREAMS, CUSTARDS, JELLIES, AND STEWED FRUHi 

Sect. 1. — General Observations. 

999. Creams include in their ranks a variety of rich and delicious 
sweet dishes, chiefly made with a foundation of milk or cream and 
either whipped into a froth or eaten in a solid state. Isinglass or 

gel&tine, or calPs foot jeWy, ate us^^ \,o ^W^^ii Vck&m^ ^Q^«5.ihftr with 

eggs in some cases. 



MOULDS. 261 



iOOO. CoLociHNG TO Staiit Crbamb Ain> Jellibs : — 

ITor a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in tbe finest 
powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tartar in half a pint of 
water, very slowly for half an hour; add in boiling a bit of alum 
the size of a pea. Or, use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured 
over. 

For white, use the almonds finely pounded, with a little drop of 
water. Or, use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of safiron steeped in the liquor 
and squeezed. 

For green, pounded spinach leaves or beet-leaves; express the 
juice, and boil in a teacup placed in a saucepaa of water to take off 
the rawness. 

The Mixtube of two coloured jellies, or of blancmange or 
jcream with jelly, is made by allowing the first layer in the mould to 
liarden sufficiently to bear the succeeding one of a different colour 
without their intermixing ; several jcolonrs may be added in this way. 

Thb best Mode op Meltikq Isinglass. 

1001. To melt a quarter of a pound of isinglass, take a little more 
than a pint of water, into which throw in the twelfth part of the white 
of an egg; beat the water weU till it becomes white ; throw the isin- 
glass into that water, and lay it on the stove over a very slow fire. If 
it is kept covered, it will melt more easily. Take care it does not 
bum, for then it can never be made clear, besides it would have an 
unpleasant taste. For a larger quantity put more water, but not more 
white of egg. If the isinglass is required to be particularly clear, 
squeeze into it the fuiee of a lemon. 

To Run Jelly. 

1002. In running jelly through the flannel bag, it is apt to become 
cold and refuse to run. To avoid this, it is a good plan to fix the bag 
to a couple of sticks stretched across a large furnace, in tbe bottom of 
which are a few quarts of boiling water, so that the proper temperature 
is maintained. 

Moulds. 

lOOS. Moulds of various forms are required, fox \\i^ -'{►'vss:^^'^^ 5i\\si'aiK.- 
hag blanemanpre, Jelly, &c. They are, \iOYre\w, %Q ^^ Vaanrcw \s^ 
Bc&reeljrto need description. In ordex lo ^eX x\ia «>x>i)v\«^ wsX^'"^" 



•r» 




Ae edges 



To TThxf GkKAXB. 

: .»..4. ?..:;.▼ ib* ilncikss giTca for beating eggs at p. 254. 

To Whif Fam Crkam s. 

IXsK Hr*: & :=? Off nro of sugar on tEe peel of a lemon, then 
fTc: sJ* lis ; i^.-^ « L*:f a iemon on the sugar, and leave it for a time 
!-■ =:£-! ,* tiiCt-5}occifil of FBgar is enough if the preserve is Teiy 
?•«■:- Tbti i:::x tbi 3*ia or jeilj with the abore ; and lastly, add a 
t.-l; ^:• p.xxi crrxs: >t d<-^reei to the whole, and whip it steadily till 
z;.jc£ .- KC9(i.a«$ iiis will be in fire or ten minntes. Cease whipping 
a» Kva: as :i is i2ikiL esoagh. Some cooks add a spoonful of brandy. 



Awdur Fiz^ — F^it a linle sifted sugar in some thick cream, aad 
v^.T :s rerr fass : vben i; is qute thick, pnt in some rough pieces in 
a rlais dis.x then put strawbeuies or raspberries abont, or very nice 
^.■•:t«:<rr.e*. T-::ni-^ raort and more till you have a handsome dish 
:;::.. TJiki^ caiie to place them with taste on the outside ; or, flaTonr 
i'::e ^neasa mi:ii «yr=? of quinces, and put bits of preserved quinces in; 
irJ cncAm iAT oared wiih lemon, or any firuit syrup, and whipped in 
il:> way, aad pat in gUsses. gives you a nice sweet in a few minutes. 

SjLSPBEaKT CiSAV. 

1006. Boil an ounce of isinglass in three pints of milk a quarter 
of an hour; strain it; when cool, add half a pint of raspberry syrnp, 
s:Lr it welL and sweeten it ; add a glass of brandy, and, when nearly 
cold, pot it into a mould. 

Pine- Apple Ckeam. 

1007. Infuse some foreign pine-apple cut in slices (or the rind onlv 
will do) in boiling cream, and proceed as is usual for other froi: 
creams (par. 1005). 

Swiss Cream or Trifle. 

1008. Grate the rind of a lemon into a pint of cream (first taking 
from the cream as much as will mix four tea-spoonfuls of ground rice 
to a smooth batter), add a smaW p\ece o^ cXxaxaxcLiiTi, v«^^5X«w Vv\Js^ ^\s. 

?e8 of loaf sugar, place it over a <i\ea.x tix^ qx Vq\.V^^x>(>sx'v, >N\ksstt.'> 



nnn/*, 



ALMOND CEEASC. 263 



boils, stir in the batter and simmer it five minutes, stirring it gently 
without ceasing, then pour it out ; when it is quite cold, mix with it 
by degrees the juice of two lemons and two large table-spoonfuls of 
brandy, then pour it into a glass dish in which you have previously 
placed a quarter of a pound of macaroons and ratafias soaked in 
brandy; when set, it can be ornamented with almonds, citron, or 
preserved ginger^ 

Appt.e Trifle. 

1009. Scald as much fruit as required, pulp it smoothly; add 
sufficient sugar to sweeten it, and the grated rinds of two lemons ; lay 
this thickly at the bottom of the dish« Mix a pint of cream, a pint 
of new milk, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten ; put it over the 
fire, stirring it until it is just upon the boil ; sweeten it with white 
sugar, and let it grow cold ; then put it over the apples with a spoon, 
and afterwards lay upon the whole a fine whip of cream, made some 
hours previously. 

CoDLiiir Cream. 

1010. Fare and core twelve good-sized codlins ; beat them quickly 
and thoroughly in a mortar ; then stir in a pint of thick cream, adding, 
as it becomes well mingled, the crumb of a stale sponge-cake, a glass 
of white wine, and powdered white sugar to taste. This is a deliciously 
cool preparation to partake of in the summer time, when codlins are 
in season. 

Orange Cream. 

101 K Shred candied orange peel (about an ounce and a half, or to 
taste) as fine as you can, and boil it well in a pint and a half of thick 
cream till dissolved. If it is to be solid, add an ounce of isinglass 
and put it into a mould. 

Another. — ^Boil the rind of a Seville orange till very tender ; beat it 
fine in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a 
Seville orange, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; 
beat all together for ten minutes ; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a 
pint of boiling cream ; beat till cold ; put into custard-cups set in a 
deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at 
the top small strips of orange-peel cut thin, or preserved chips. 

Almond Cream. 

1012. Beat four ounces of sweet aivd a ^e^ V\\.\.^x ^\s5La\A&\a. ^ 
mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to i^x^x^uX o^\\i^^\i^'Cs\.V«v\» 



i 



264 ENGLISH CX>OKEP.T. 



been blanched. Pot the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice 
of three lemons sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a firoth, which 
take off on the shallow pait of a sieTe ; fill glasaea with some of tho 
liquor and the froth. 

Fbuit Cream. 

1013. Whip np a thick cream with a little ponnded sngar; thai pot 
into a glass dish a layer of cream and a layer of strawberries, or anr 
other fresh or dried fruits alternately till the dish is piled high. Lay 
wafers round the outside. 

Fink Cbeax. 

1014. Mix a quart of cream with a pint of red-corrant juice or 
jelly, beat it with a whisk till quite thick, and serre it in a glass dish. 

Solid Clouted Cream^ 

1015. String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a gill of 
new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose-water ; simmer a few minutes, 
then, by degrees, stir this liquor strained into the yolks of two new 
eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, 
and set it over the fire ; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot ; pour it 
into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four honrs. Serve it in a 
cream dish, to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it without any 
flavour but that of the cream ; in which case use a quart of new milk 
and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. — (^Economical 
Housekeeper J p. 47). 

To MAKE GOOSFBERRT FoOL. 

101 G. Take two quarts of unripe gooseberries, set them on the fire 
in one pint of water ; when they begin to simmer, turn yellow, and 
begin to plump, throw them into a colander or sieve to drain ; then 
press the pulp through a sieve into a dish ; make it pretty sweet, and 
leave it till cold. Take two quarts of new milk, and four yolks of 
eggs beaten with a little nutmeg, stir it softly over a slow fire ; when 
it begins to simmer take it off, and by degrees stir it into the pulp. 
If made with cream, the eggs may be omitted, and more goosebeines 
added if preferred thicker; a little brandy is a great improvement 
It should be served cold. This quantity is suflScient to fill three 
ordinary glass dishes. Or, by some it is preferred to rub the goose- 
berriea through a colander oiAy, ot m«t^^ xo Taa:^^«sn.«&«.-^ ^a^&sSi&sjj, 
so as to retain all the skins. 



STONE CBEAH. 



26$ 



Bhctbahb Fool 

1017. Is made as above, substituting the stalks of tbe rhubarb, cut 
in short lengths, for the gooseberries, and boiling them in a gill of 
water only. 

Apple Fool. 

1018. Pare the fruit, and either scald or bake it until suflSciently 
eoft to pulp it through a colander ; sweeten it agreeably to taste, and 
fill the glasses three parts full with it. Then plentifully sprinkle in 
some cinnamon and cloves in powder, put a good layer of rich scalded 
cream, and sift white sugar upon the top. 

Objlnoe Fool. 

1019. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, 
n pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and sweeten to the 
taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as 
thick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled ; then pour it 
into a dish, and set it by till cold. 

POMMES I LA ChAKTILLY. 

1020. In a quart of good thick and very sweet cream, put the whites 
of four eggs strained, beat it until it becomes a stiff snow ; then, 
whUe still beating it, add quite a pound of pulped apples, and a quarter 
of a pound of finely powdered sifted white sugar. Pile it high upon a 
dessert dish, and serve. 

Stone Cbeam. 

1021. Add three«quarters of an ounce of isinglass to one quart of 
thin cream, previously dissolving the isinglass in a small quantity of 
water ; then add the cream sweetened to taste, and let it boil from ten 
to fifteen minutes ; meanwhile grate the rind of a small lemon into 
about half a pint of sherry or raisin wine, and put in the dish with 
preserved apricots or any light>coIoured preserve. Stir the cream 
occasionally, and when almost cold pour it carefully over the preserve. 
In order that the two shall not mix, make the cream the day before. 

Another Stone Cream. — Line a dish with orange marmalade, or 
some other preserve, squeeze on it the juice of a lemon, and grate 
upon it the peel. Then dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of extract 
of calves* feet, or half an ounce of isinglass dlsaoVs^i^ Vcv.^^'et^^;^.^ 
add to it a pint of cream well sweetened. "Poatc VJcscva «s^x ^Ossfc^assxa*.- 
Jado, Jtsbovdd be made the day befoi<^ 



266 ENGLISH CX)OK£aT. 



Another Stone Cream. — ^Lay some preserre of different sorts in tBe 
bottom of a deep glass dish, then pour some blancmange over it till the 
dish is rather more than half fulL When perjectfy cM^ poar on the 
blancmange a good thick cnstard to fill the dish, and when that is also 
cold stick blanched almonds on the top. 

Lemon Cbsam. 

1022. Lemon Cream tn Glasses, — ^To the peel of one large lemon 
pared thin pat the jnice of two, half a pint of water, the whites of 
four eggs and yolk of one beaten well^ and hfdf a pound of lump 
sugar ; stir it over a slow fire till it is the thickness of eream ; strain 
it, and put it in glasses. 

1023. Lemon Cream without Cream, — ^Take the peel of a large lemon 
and put it into a glass, then squeeze the juice of two lemons upon it, 
add to it half a pint of water and four eggs (leaving out three of the 
yolks) well beaten, and add half a pound of fine siftoed sugar. Strain 
and set it over a slow fire, stirring it till it is as thick as a good cream. 

1024. Lemon Cream with ^rroirroo^^-Dissolve and mix up two 
table-spoonfuls of arrowroot in a little cold water, add one and a half 
pint of boiling water, and boil it in a nice clean saucepan for a few 
minutes, stirring it all the time; add a couple of pinches of saffron 
(to colour it), and as much lemon juice and grated peel and lump 
sugar as will flavour and sweeten it ; then add the yolks of five or six 
eggs well beaten up ; stir the whole on the fire for a few minutes (but 
do not let it curdle), and cool. The above quantity will fill about 
twelve small glasses, and requires two or three lemons. It is not so 
good made with fewer eggs (see White Lemon Cream). 

1025. White Lemon Cream. — Make the cream, as above, with the 
whites instead of yolks of eggs (leaving out the saflron). The whitei 
must be well beaten, but not frothed, and an e^g or two more is an 
improvement, making it whiter. If it should appear to curdle, the 
straining makes all right. In this manner three or four eggs will 
make six glasses of white, and six of yellow lemon cream. 

Chocolate or Orange Cream. 

1026. Mix together two yolks of eggs, a pint of milk, sngar to the 
taste, a bit of butter twice the size of a walnut, a spoonful of dried and 
sifted flour, and sliced chocolate, which should be put to the milk cold; 
put all in a stewpan, and stir gently till it just boils. If you wish it 

favoured with orange or lemoiv, c\vo^ soxa^ ^^O^n^vj ^Tv^^^ccL^-^xLtit 
In as yon take it off the fire, and it i^taVu^ «. ^x^-^V ^^.Nwa, 



APPLE SPONGE. 36f 



Coffee Cream. 

1027. Boil a calf s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jellj clear 
of sediment and fat, make a teacnp of very strong coffee, clear it with 
a bit of isinglass. To be perfectly bright, pour it to the jelly with a 
pint of yery good cream and as much lump sugar as is pleasant ; giye 
it one boil up, and pour it into the dish ; it should jelly, but not be 
stiff. 

Hies C&EAir. 

1028. Soak two and a half to three ounces of rice over night in water 
for a short time, then put in a sieve to drain and dry. Next morning 
to be half pounded, then boiled in half a pint of milk, and put in a 
basin to cool ; add half a pint of cream, half an ounce of dissolved 
isinglass, and whip it to a strong froth ; leave it in the mould all day, 
and add sweetmeats, or fresh fruits, or French prunes, in the middle. 

Brandt Cream. 

1029. To a pint of thick cream put a teacnpful each of sifted sugar 
and brandy; add the juice of a lemon. Whisk till it thickens, and 
pour into a glass dish. 

Imperial Cream. 

1030. Take the juice of three large oranges or two lemons, sweeten 
it well with double-refined sugar pounded and sifted, put it into the 
dish you design to serve it up in, then take a pint of thick cream, 
sweeten it a little, boil it and stir it till it is milk warm ; put it in a 
teapot with one spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour it very high 
on the juice, which will make it curdle, and look like a honeycomb. 

Apple SnoW. 

1031. Take a pinch of powdered alum, with half a pound of the pulp 
of roasted apples, half a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of one 
good lemon, and the whites of three eggs. Whip all together for an 
hour, drop it lightly on a glass dish. 

Apple Sponge. 

1032. Boil half a pound of apples with a quarter of a pound of 
sugar and half a pint of water, and the rind of a lemon ; when soft, pulp 
it through a sieve, then beat haTf a pint of thick cream to a strong {c<^^^^ 
add ha}fan ounce of isinglass melted in aWtxY^^OkXi^x \x£3LVt^2^\52i«iy!C««x^ 

and put it in ttie mould ; if liked wben txicxL^ ou\^"^^a «^ ^xi&N»R^ «^«^ 



2G8 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



GaTSAU DB POXMS8. 

1083. Boil one pound and a half of lump Bogar in a pint of water till 
it becomes sugar again ; then add two ponnda of apples pared and 
cored, the peel and a little of the juice of two small lemons ; boil it 
until guiu itiff, and put it into a mould ; when cold it should be toned 
out, and before being sent to table should have a tiiick cnatard ponzed 
round it. The cake will keep several months. It is less expensive if a 
larger proportion of apple is added, but does not stiffen so well. 

Pbumian Cbbax. 

1034. Whisk well the whites of four eggs and add them io fear 
ounces of sugar (some lumps of which have been rubbed on the peel 
of a lemon), and one pint of cream ; whisk again for three minutes, and 
set it on a stove, whisking gentljtill iX boils. Then poor ix into a dish 
and serve it cold. 

A Faench Ghablottb. 

1035. Soak well half a pound of macaroons in sherry, have ready 
a mould formed of the bottom and sides of an almond sponge-cake 
with the inside cut away, leaving the walls an inch thick, lay the 
dissolved macaroon at the bottom, over thera a thick layer of pre- 
serve, and fill up with stiff whipped cream heaped high in the centre— 
ornament the edge with icing. 

Velvet Gream. 

1036. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a breakfast -cup full of 
raisin wine, and a little brandy; add the jaiee of two small lemons, on 
which rob some lamps of sugar to obtain the essence. When the 
isinglass is quite dissolved strain it into a basin, and, when quite cool, 
but not set, stir into it gradually a pint of cream, and then put it int4 
a mould. 

Solid Baspbebrt Gream. 

1037. Dissolve one ounce and a half of isinglass in a pint of new 
milk, strain it and add a pint of cream, and as much raspberry jelly or 
jam as will make it a fine colour ; strain H altogether, and put it into 
moulds, which must not be of tin. 

Vevstiab Gream. 
1038. DisBohe half an ounce of VB\\\^w»\\i^V«^^.^"5^«^a3DEwVJ?t\sc^^ 
wasted, add a little more cream) •, ymt Oii^ cxwca. oa VJsa^ ^svs&r»> ^\ 



TRIFLE. 269 

ratafias and macaroons mixed, sweeten with raspberry jelly (or lemon 
and sagar), whisk it ten or fifteen minutes ; put it in a mould, and it will 
turn out next day. 

Apple and Ccstabd. 

^1039. Prepare apples as for sauce, only stiffer; allow them to remain 
till cold. Put them into a simple mould to give a shape to them, or 
pile them in the centre of your dish and pour a costard over them. 

Macaroni and Custard. 

1040. Into nearly a quart of new milk when boiling fast, put by 
degrees a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni. Simmer by the fire till 
nearly tender. Add two or three ounces of lump sugar, a smaU 
quantity of isinglass (and either lemon or cinnamon flavouring if liked). 
Then simmer the whole till the pipes are soft and swollen to their full 
size. Press it in a mould, and when quite cold turn it out into a deep 
glass dish, pouring over it enough of a rich custard to fill the dish — a 
little brandy is an improvement to the custard*^ 

Leche Creua. 

1041. Beat up three eggs, leaving out two whites, add to them a 
pint of new milk, and mix very carefully a table-spoonful of flour, 
with a little finely grated lemon-peel \ boil this over a slow fire, con- 
stantly stirring it. Prepare a shallow dish, with some ratafia cakes at 
the bottom soaked in brandy and sherry, or covered with preserve ; 
then, when the crema is boiled pretty thick, pour it orer the cakes. 
To be sent to table cold. 

Floating Islanda. 

1042. Whip up two spoonfuls of jelly or jam with one of white of 
egg ; beat well ; then drop it with a spoon on a dish of cream. 

Sxa "Walter Scott's Wassail Bowl. 

1043. Crumble sponge-cakes with ratafias and macaroons into a 
glass dish, and cover them with rich raisin-wine, and a glass of brandy. 
The juice of a lemon should first be squeezed over the crumbled cake. 
Have a rich thick custard ready made^ and pour it upon the whole 
warm^ but not hot If approved, add a little raspberry jam. 

TBI7I.1&. 

1044. Soak sponge-biscuits, macaroonS) MiA. t«L\a&as^Vfc,^^^^^^'^ 



270 ENGLISH OOOKKBT. 



with one pint of raisin-wine and aboat a glass of brandy, in the morn- 
ing ; tlien lay upon it a layer of preserve, and apon that the whip 
given below, reserving a little to put on just before sending it to 
tabic. 

1045. Whip for Trifle. — ^Put two wine-glasses of white wine, with a 
stick of cinnamon, lemon peel, and a blade of mace, into a saucepan 
over the fire till it simmers, then strain it, and put it to stand until 
nearly cold, then add another glass of wine, with one of brandy, and 
an equal quantity of cream and milk ; sugar to your taste. Beat it 
well with a whisk, and as the froth rises take it off and lay it on a 
sieve, the hollow part down. If for the evening, make this whip the 
iirst thing in the morning. 

1046. Solid Syllahuh for Trifle^ or to put into Gktsses. — A quart of 
cream, one glass of brandy, two glasses of raisin wine, the juice of two 
lemons, and the essence of the peel taken by rubbing lumps of sugar 
upon them. Sweeten to the taste, and whip it all together. A pint is 
enough for a trifle. 

1047. An Excellent Trifle, — Lay macaroons and ratafia drops over 
the bottom of a dish, and pour in as much raisin-wine as they will 
suck up ; which, when they have done, pour on them cold rich cus- 
tard, made with plenty of eggs and some rice flour ; it must stand two 
or three inches thick. On that put a layer of raspberry-jam, and cover 
the whole with a high whip, made the day before of rich cream, the 
whites of two well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin-wine, 
well beaten with a wire whisk. If made the day before it is used, it 
has quite a diflercnt taste, and is far better. 

1048. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle. — Scald such a quantity of either of 
these fruits as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer 
at the bottom of the dish ; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon 
grated fine, and add to both as much sugar as will be pleasant ; if of 
gooseberries, a little nutmeg and brandy. Mix half a pint of mill^, 
half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the 
fire, and stir it all the time ; do not let it boil ; add a little sugar onlj, 
and let it grow eold. Lay it over the apple with a spoon, and then 
put on it a whip made the day before, as for other Trifie. 

1049. Chcmtilly Cake, or Cake Trifle. — Bake a rice cake in a mould. 
Wlien cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp 
knite, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick cns- 

tard, and some teaspoonfuls of Tas^Ajctrj ^MSi, wA ^^x^^^^x ^\i^\^ 
whip. 



BLANOMAKGE. 271 



Lemon Solid. 

1050. Mix the rind of one lemon grated, and the juice squeezed in, 
with one pint of cream, half an ounce of isinglass hoiled in a little 
water, and six ounces of sugar hoiled with the cream. When the 
cream and isinglass are almost cold, pour it on the lemon. 

Another Lemon Solid, — Grate the peel of a large lemon, and put the 
juice into a basin, with brandy and sugar to the taste. Boil a quart 
of cream and pour it on the lemon, stirring it till it is cold. 

Neige a la Gilbttb. 

1051. Divide jour eggs from the whites as for custards, about six to 
a pint of milk. Put the milk on the fire, and, while boiling, beat the 
whites up till they stand pretty firm, then take a quantity of the white 
on an egg slice and put it on the milk ; when it is swollen and has 
boiled for half a minute, turn it on to the other side and do the same. 
Then put it on a dish and do the same with the rest of the whites ; 
it will make about six lots, and you need not be afraid of putting one 
upon another. It looks just like snow. Make a custard with the rest 
of the eggs, milk, and sugar ; flavour and serve as you like. Place in a 
dish, with the snow on the top, and custard round; or the snow lightly 
placed on the custard ; or, snow on one dish and custard on another. 

Cbeme a J.A Vanilla (or Mauritius Cream). 

1052. Take three table- spoonfuls of arrowroot and mix smoothly with 
three of cold milk : add a pint of boiling milk quickly stirred in. 
Whip well the yolks of six eggs and add to the arrowroot and milk ; 
then boil gently oyer the fire until it becomes a rich yellow colour ; 
but be very careful — for a little boil too much, and your cream is spoilt ; 
flavour with a teaspoonful of the best vanilla. When nearly cold, 
add two teaspoonfuls of brandy, and pour the creajpi into a crystal dish. 
Whisk the whites of six eggs till they are as light as possible, and whip 
in six table-spoonfuls of sifted sugai*. Pile it up rockily or plain, as you 
please, on the cream when cold, ornamenting with ratafias and pink 
sugar according to taste. 

Blancmange. 

1053. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water half an 
hour; strain it through fine muslin into a pint and a half of cream. \ 
sweeten, and add jsk few bitter almonds po\»vde.^ "ii^WXi^^ ks^^»^s^\ 

Wnot wanted very sti^ a little leas i8mg\w» ynlA. ^^* ^Skt^^NS^^^ 



272 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



Toange occasionally while cooling, but let it settle before pouring into 
tho monlds, or the blacks will settle in the moulds, and show them- 
selres at the top when turned out. 

Another Blancmange, — Infuse for an hour, in one pint and ihree> 
quarters of milk, the thin rind of a small lemon, and eight bitter 
almonds blanched and bruised ; add two ounces of sugar and one ounce 
and a half of gelatine ; boil them over a slow fire, stirring until the 
isinglass or gelatine is dissoWed. Take off the scum. Stir in half a 
pint of rich cream, and strain the blancmange into a bowl. It shoold 
be moved gently with a spoon till nearly cold, to prevent the cream 
from rising to the top ; add by degrees a wine-glassful of brandy, and 
when nearly cold pour it into a mould. 

Abrowroot Blanchanob (exceJfenf), 

1054 To a quart of new milk add a quarter of a pound of arrowroot 
sweetened to taste, and a pennyworth of cinnamon water ; stir it well 
whilst on the fire, boil ten minutes, pour it into a mould, and let it 
stand twenty-four hoars. Many prefer the flayour of lemon-peel or 
laurel-leaf to the cinnamon. 

KiCB Blancmanob. 

1055. Take three table-spoonfuls of very finely ground rice, stir it 
gently into three gills of good new milk ; add lump sugar to the taste, 
but not too much, or it will prevent its setting. Flavour it with lemon- 
peel or almond essence ; set it on the fire, and let it boil thoroughly, 
stirring it and beating it extremely well for rather more than half an 
hour, and then pour it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water. 

1056. Improved Rice Blancmange — Mix three ounces of ground rice 
and one ounce of arrowroot with one quart of new milk, to which a 
little cream has been added. Sweeten it to the taste, and fiavour it 
with laurel-leaf, cinnamon, or orange essence in the usual way. The 
addition of the arrowroot makes it eat much more tender and pleasanL 

KiCE Flummery. 

1057. Chop or grate the rind of half a lemon very fine, and pound 
half an ounce of bitter almonds ; mix them together ; then take a quart 
of new milk, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and the same of ground 
rice, stirring the latter. 

Chocolatb OB. Cocok'B\.mrc;w.>^q?^. 
1058. BoU six ounces of cocoa ox c\ioto\aX^Vo. ^ Y«^. ^"^ tows^^^ 



JAUNE KAKOB. S7S 



six ounces of fdfted sugar ; let tbem boil five minutes ; then add one 
ounce of isinglass dissolved in milk. Mix well and pour into the mould. 

Ratafia BLAKCXJoroB. 

1059. Fonr a quart of cream or rich milk, boiling hot, over half a 
pound of crushed macaroon ratafias, mix it well, and let it stand, stir* 
ring it occasionally till the ratafias are dissolved. Then add one ounce 
of isinglass dissolved in a gill of lukewarm water. Stir well, pour 
into a mould, and set it to cool. 

SpAinsH Blancmanqb. 

1060. Powder half a pound of loaf-sugar, having rubbed the rind 
of a lemon on some of it. I^x with it one pint of cream, the Juice of 
the lemon, and half a pint of water. Stir it till all is dissolved, then stir 
in another pint of cream ; dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a quarter 
of a pint of water ; mix with the other lukewarm, and give the whole 
a good stirring ; pour into a mould, and turn out when cold. 

yxvTLTjjL Blancmange. 

1061. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a gill of water; boil a 
vanilla bean in a pint of milk till the flavour is well extracted. Whip 
a quart of cream to a stiff froth. Beat stiff the whites of four e^s, 
then the yolks separately, and beat in a quarter of a pound of sifted 
sugar ; mix the cream and Tanilla milk, then beat in by degrees the 
3'olk, then the white, and lastly the melted isinglass, beating and stir- 
ring them ; pour into your moulds, and set to cool ; if it wiU not turn 
out, just slip the moulds into lukewarm water. 

SuppBB Dish. 

1062. Line a mould with any kind of preserves except raspberry, 
the greater variety the better ; soak sponge cake with hot custard, and 
put it in the middle ; then pour over a thin blancmange to bind the 
whole t<^ther ; when cold, turn it out. 

JjLUNE Manob. 

1068. Put into one pint of water, the night before it is to be made, 
three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine and a little lemon -peel. The 
next day put into a pint-cup the juice of two \eniLatv^ ttsA^TL^^"«sfc- 
rlass of brandy; £11 ap the cup with good xwam-mu^ qt ^^ttjnV*^ 
iese with the mixture into a saucepan, and aMUi ^csa^^^l^^"* 



374 XKOLI8H OOOKKBT. 

soYcn eggs well-beaten, and sufficient lamp-nigar to iweefeen it; set it 
on a slow fire, stirring it till it boils ; strain it, and stir it oecasioDally 
until nearly cold, when it should be put into the monldfl. 

Another Jaune Mange, — ^DissoWe one onnee of isinglass in half a 
pint of boiling water ; beat the yolks of six eggs, and mix them with 
half a pint of raisin or sherry wine, the juice of a lemon, and sugar to 
the taste (the peel of the lemon should be rubbed with some of the 
lumps of sugar to extract the essence). Stir all well together, and 
boil ten minutes. Strain, and when nearly cold put it into a mould 
first dipped in cold water. 

Another Jaune Mange. — Stew half an ounce of isinglass in half a 
pint of water ; add the rind of a lemon pared thin, after having rubbed 
two or three lumps of sugar on it to extract the essence for the jaane 
mange. When the isinglass is dissolved, squeeze the juice of the 
lemon into it, and add five table-spoonfuls of whito wine. Stir into it 
by degrees the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and then set it over the 
fire and stir it one way till it boils. Strain it, and continue stirring 
till almost cold. Put it in a mould or glasses ; when the eggs are 
mixed with it, sugar must be added to the taste. (This makes a TCiy 
small quantity.) 

Lrmox Cbbam in Shapb. 

1064. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of Light's extract of 
calves' feet, or gelatine, in a quarter of a pint of water. Strain it, 
squeeze the juice of three lemons with the grated peel of one, sweeten 
with sifted lump sugar, and when you have added about three- 
quarters of a pint of good cream, or a little more, whisk it well till it 
becomes a strong froth. Then add the isinglass, cooled sufficientlj, 
but not set ; and mix it well. When it begins to set, put it into your 
mould, and in an hour or two it will be sufficiently firm to turn out 
This quantity should fill a quart mould. This cream may be varied 
by adding before it sets a few dried or preserved cherries, greengages, 
&c., with a little candied peel, and colour it with a little cochineal 

Another, — Simmer three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a little 
milk until dissolved ; strain and set it to cool ; put the juice of three 
lemons and some sugar to a pint of cream ; whisk them well together, 
pour in the gelatine by degrees, whisk it again, and pour it into a 
mould. 

1065. Mix one quart of cream, tbi«> i>3^^^ ^^ \Xii^^VM^^^a>^\ssS«.4. 



EASPBERBY CBEAlCi 275 



the peel, a large glass of brandy, and powdered sngar to taste ; stir all 
well together, then whisk it to a strong froth, place it in a sieve with 
a piece of thin mnslin in it, and it should then stand till the whey has 
entirely left it ; after this it may be pat into a mould, turned out, and 
ornamented to fancy. The cheese is better if made two days before 
it is wanted. The muslin should be rinsed through cold water. The 
above proportions make but a small cheese, but may easily be 
increased at pleasure. 

Lemon Sponob. 

1066. Take half an ounce of isinglass, dissolye it in a little boiling 
water, then take the juice of eight lemons, and put sugar to your 
taste; whisk it together until it becomes a sponge, then wet the 
mould and put it in ; when set turn it out. The mixture ought to be 
nearly cold to whisk well. 

POMMES AUX MaSBONS. 

1067« Boil some chestnuts until they are soft ; pulp them, and add a 
little white sugar and lemon-juice. With this line the inside of a 
tart-shape, or cake-mould, thickly buttered ; then put in a good layer 
of pulped apples, sweetened and seasoned with powdered cinnamon 
and nutmeg ; over this spread more chestnut paste, and again some 
apple ; proceed thus until your mould is fidl ; squeeze in some lemon 
juice to fill up the interstices, and bake in a- quick oven. Turn it out 
as you would a cake. 

FOMHE8 A LA. YeSUTB. 

1068. Pile some apple marmalade high in a dish. Get ready some 
macaroni boiled in water, but well drained, and afterwards sweetened 
with white sngar and flavoured with brandy ; cut it into short lengths, 
but do not mince it ; lay it as a bordering round the mountain of mar- 
malade ; plentifully dust the whole over with powdered white sugar, 
and on the apex form a crater with about half a dozen good-sized 
lumps of sugar ; pour a good gill of brandy over the top, and imme* 
diately before serving set fire to it, and introduce it at table flaming. 

Baspberby Cbkajc, Solid, 

1069. Take full half a pound of raspberry jelly or jam, with the 
seeds taken out ; whisk quickly three-quarters of a ^uvt qC ^v^^asass^.^ 
to which has been added the iuic© of a \ftmoTi. ^H^aa -^"wa. \ss»s^^*«^ 

sweetened with sifted lump-sugar, and. may \>^ ^adVwofc^^^!^ ^"^«^ 



27 XSOLUO COOIUBRT. 



little cochineal ; three-qnarten of ao ounce of '* exLtract of cahreir feet," 
or gelatine, most be preTionaly dlnolTed in rather leu than a qnaiter of 
a pint of water, and added to the cream at last. It must be put mto 
the mould as soon as it begins to set If required to be kept» it shoaU 
be pat into a crockery monld, that the eoloar may be preserved. 

C&SAXBD RiGB. 

1070. Bon a large handful of rice in a pint of new milk tUl lety 
thick and tender ; when about half done, pnt in half the rind of a 
small lemon cut very small, and a little nntmeg or lanrel le&L Sweeten 
to the taste ; put it in the moulds, and when quite cold turn it out, 
and pour over it some thick cream or custard, or place round it some 
jam or preserved firuits ; if wanted for dinner, it should be pr^iand 
the previous day. 

A Shapb or Kics. 

1071. A teacnpfol of rice well washed. Put it into a stewpan iritb 
half a teacupfol of water. Add to it a pint of new milk ; let it boil 
till soft. Turn into a mould till cold, then serve it in a dish wiih jam 
or cream. 

Italian Crsam. 

1072. Grate the peel of two lemons, squeeze the juice on the peel, 
add some sifted sugar — it should be made pretty sweet — then poor 
over it one pint and a half of cream ; stir it well that it may not 
curdle, beat it with a whisk till it is as thick as batter ; put a piece, of 
muslin into a tin mould (to be pierced full of holes), and pour the 
cream into it. The tin should be placed across a dish, that it mar 
stand hollow. Fill up the mould as the whip subsides. 

A Charlottb Birssx. 

1073. Take a plain monld, pour in a little calves' foot jelly to cover 
the bottom of the mould. When set, take finger biscuits, cut tbem 
straight to fit in the mould, and add a little more jelly, coloured with 
cochineaL Then take a little cream, put it in a basin, add a little 
lemon juice and loaf sugar pounded, wtth a glass of brandy flavoured 
to the taste ; then whisk it stifi^, melt half an ounce of isinglass if tht 
mould is large, if a small one less will do ; sthr the isinglass in the 
cream, and pour it in the mould. 

To Maila Cts&tkbox 
1 074. Set ft saucepan of water to \>oVi, wa^-^Vjaa \\.\ao^^^q\^ 



CUSTARDS. 27T 



the ingredients for the castard into a jng ; viz., a pint of thin cream, 
five yolks of eggs well beaten (no white), sugar and laurel leaf to the 
taste. Set the jug in boUing water, and keep stirring tiU it ia t^e 
proper thickness. Then take it oot, and stuff a clean doth into tb« 
jug to prevent its skinning over, and let it stand till quite cold, and 
then add some brandjr. If in a hurrj, the cream and laurel leaves 
may be made warm before adding the sugar and eggs, but the custard 
is not quite so thick in this case. 

1075. Boiled Milk Custard should be made with four eggs to a quart 
of new milk ; flavour with sugar and nutmeg, if liked ; pour it boiling 
over some thin slices of roll or cake, and eat it either hot or cold. 

1076. A Less Bich Custard. — Mix a quarter of a pint of cream with 
a quarter of a pint of milk, leaving a little out to mix with a tea- 
spoonful of arrowroot ; pour the other boiled and sweetened over it ; 
and add the yolks of two eggs and a little brandy when cold. 

Vaniixx Cvstahd Frothed. 

1077. Sweeten and flavour one pint of milk with vanilla. Beat 
the whites of seven or eight eggs to a stiff froth ; and, when the milk 
boils, take out a table-spoonful of the froth and let it set in the milk, 
turning it once. Put it on a sieve to drain, then another, and another. 
When there is a sufficient quantity, strain the milk and make it into 
custard in the usual way, eight or nine eggs to a pint of milk. Put 
the custard when cold into a glass dish, and place the frothed whites 
upon it. 

Spanish Custabd. 

1078. To a quart of milk put a little sugar ; when boiled, take it off 
the fire, and shake three table-spoonfuls of arrowroot into it, add half 
a tea-spoonftil of noyau or essence of almonds to it, and about half an 
ounce of isinglass ; set it over the flre again, stirring it one way, then 
pour it into a mould, which must first be wetted, and when cold turn 
it out, and stick it with blanched almonds ; mix the arrowroot with a 
little cold milk. 

Lbmon Custabps. 

1079. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk ; 
then put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons 
grated, and the juice sweetened to the taste. Stir Uo^tVA^^s^^o&i. 
thick enough ; .then add a large glass of tVcVi m\ift «b.^ V"aM ^ 5^»».^ ^^^ 

biandjr; give the whole one soald, and "put i\ Va «a5%,V^>>«k ^•tes^'si^^ 



278 ENGLISH OOOKERT. 



Almoitd Custasd. 

1080. Take three bitter almonds with a little cinnamoiiy and reb 
some fresh lemon-peel grated on two ounces of lamp-siigar» pat them 
in a pint of milk or cream, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour, 
then strain and stir till cooL After this mix with the milk the yolki 
of fonr eggs well beaten, simmer again nntil it becomes a thick cnsttid, 
then add an onnce of sweet almonds beaten smooth with rose water. 

TiPBT Cakb. 

1081. Take a stale sponge-cake of full sise, pierce it wiUi holes, 
making them with a knitting-pin. Four oyer by degrees with a spoon 
half a pint of raisin-wine and a wine-glass of brandy mixed. When 
this quantity is soaked up, which will require the wine to be ladled up 
from the bottom, stick it thickly oyer with blanched almonds cut in 
points or spikes. Just before it goes to table pour oyer it a thick 
custard, or whipped creauL Seyen or eight sponge biscuits may be 
boiled up and done the same way, or, by way of yariety, the cake may 
be sliced with preserve spread between each layer, and then finish as 
above. 

Turned- OUT Custabd. 

1082. Mix with one pint of sweet milk half an ounce of shred 
isinglass, the yolks of fonr eggs well beaten, nine pounded bitter 
almonds ; stir all well over a slow fire till the isinglass is dissolved ; 
strain through a fine sieve or muslin, and pour into a shape. When 
cold, turn it out. 

Sect. 3.— Jellies. 

1083. For directions to run jellies, see the Economical Housekeqter, 

Calf's Feet Jellt. 

1084. Put a set of calfs feet well cleaned into a pan with five 
quarts of water, and let them boil gently till reduced to two quarta 
Then take out the feet, let the jelly become quite cold, skim the fat 
off clean, and clear the jelly from the sediment. Beat the whites of 
eight eggs to a froth, then add one bottle of raisin- wine or sheny, 
squeeze in the juice of from eight to twelve lemons, and the peel of 

£re or six. Sweeten it to tYve lasl^ Cjb^>o\jl\. \.^^ ^waAa ^\i^ ^ «);(\aster 
of loaf sugar). When the atoct \a \>oViMi^ ufita ^ia^ «y*w&^ sS.>^ 



LEKON JELLY. 279 



and keep stirring it with the wine and eggs, to prevent it from curd- 
ling ; then add a little more stock and still keep stirring, and then pat 
it into the pan ; let it boil twenty, minutes, and about the middle of 
the time pour in half a teacup of cold water ; pour it into a flannel- 
bag, and let it run into a basin. Keep pouring it back into the bag 
gently till it runs clear. Let it settle a little after boiling before 
pouring it into the bag, and be nearly cold before going into the 
mould. The eggs and wine must be carefully mixed, or it will curdle. 
If loosening the edges and shaking the jellies or blancmange is not 
sufScient, tiy dipping the mould for one instant into very hot water, or 
lay under it a cloth that has been dipped in hot water. 

Jellt with Gelatinb. 

1085. Take two ounces and three quarters of gelatine dissolved in 
about a quart of water, four lemons, one pound of loaf sugar, nearly 
half a bottle of raisin-wine, or a little brandy and less of the wine, as 
little white of egg as is neccessary to clear it, as the egg takes from 
the stiffness of the jelly. Boil altogether, strain through a jelly-bag, 
and put into a mould. 

Ox Feet Jellt. 

1086. To three ox feet, made into very stiff stock, allow two 
pounds and a half of brown sugar, the juice of six lemons, a bottle of 
table-beer, seven eggs (yolks and whites), a few cloves, about one 
quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and a tea-cupful of vinegar. Boil 
all these ingredients together a quarter of an hour ; take the pan off 
the fire, and let it stand on the fender for five minutes before putting 
it through the jelly-bag. 

Wine Jellies (made with Gelatine). 

1087. Put full three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a pint of 
water the night before making the jelly, with a bit of lemon peel and 
twelve ounces of sugar ; squeeze in a pint measure the juice of four 
lemons, add a glass and a half of brandy, some orange flavouring or 
spirit of punch, fill up with good raisin-wine, and whites and yolks of 
two eggs beaten ; boil gently till the scum separates, and pass through 
a jelly-bag. 

Lemon Jellt (most exceUent) 
J088, Pare very thin the rind of two \«iao'&&) \pQX \^ \a5» «»^sq^«sS^ 



280 EKGLZSH OOOKEBY. 



■^ ■ -■^ 



ponr a little boiling water oyer it. IHttolve one oanoe of gebUine or 
of Lighf s extract of calTes* feet in a pint of water, add to that 
the juice of six lemons, the water in i(biek the rind has been Bleeped, one 
tea-spoonfol of brandy, one tea-spoonful of mm, and one iMrspooniM 
of orange flayouring, with water enough to make np a quart; add batf 
a pound of lump-sugar. Gire it a boil up, and strain throu^ a 
muslin ; when nearly cold pour it into the movld. 

Tapioca Winb Jbllt. 

1089. Take a quarter of a pound of tapioca, and wash it in two or 
three waters ; then add a pint of cold water, and let it soak twelre 
hours or more ; simmer it in the same water with the rind of a lemon 
until it becomes quite clear ; then add the juice of the lemon, with 
wine and loaf sugar to taste, and put it in the mould at once. 

Apple Jellt. 

1090. Put one pound and a half of apples, after being pared and 
cored, in a quart of water ; boil them till the apples are in a pulp ; 
put them into a hair sieve to drain, but do not rub through. Measure 
the juice, and to every pint put half an ounce of isinglass (or the 
extract of calves' feet) and the juice and peel of a small lemon, sugar to 
taste ; boil altogether five or ten minutes. Pour it through a flannel 
bag, and stir it till nearly cold before it is put into a mould. 

Red Apples in Jellt. 

1091. Fare and core some well-shaped apples — ^pippins or golden 
rennets, if you have them, but others will do ; throw them into water 
as you do them ; put them into a preserving-pan, and with as little 
water as will only half cover them ; let them coddle, and, when the 
lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close 
when first put in. Mix one or two grains of pounded cochineal or a 
tea-spoonful of the tincture with the water, and boil with the fruit 
When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be 
served in, the stalks downwards. Take the water and make a rich 
jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. 
When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the 
apples ; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put it across 
the eye of the apple. 

OsANOB Jellt. 

1092. Peel lightly six oranges, and throw the peel into a little water, 



PUNCH JELLY. 281 



I which laj on the corner of a stove withoat allowing it to boil, lest i( 
should taste too bitter. Cut the orangea in two, have a lemon 
aqneeEcr and silk sieve to sqneeae the oranges (which dip in water to 
prevent waste) ; squeeze the oranges into an earthen pan, and pour 
into it through the sieve the infusion of peel. Next clarify a pound 
of sugar or so, and then pour in the orange juice. The heat of the 
sugar will clarify the jelly. Do not let it boil, but as soon as you 
perceive a yellow scum skim it, and pour the jelly into a bag. Next 
mix some melted isinglass, either hot or cold. This jelly must not be 
made too firm. If the oranges are too ripe, mix a little lemon^juice 
to make them more acid. Eighteen oranges are requisite to make a 
good jelly. Lemon jelly may be made in the same way. 

Another Way. — ^To two quarts of calfs feet or cow-heel stock made 
stiff, add the juice of twelve China oranges and the peel of six, the 
juice of two lemons and peel of one ; pare the oranges and lemons 
very thin. Boil all together for half an hour, and sweeten to the taste. 
Strain through a piece of muslin. 

Another Way. — ^Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint of water^ 
three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar in another pint of water. 
Squeeze ei^t oranges, add the juice and rind of one lemon, and grate 
the peel of some of the oranges. Mix all the ingredients together, 
and let it boil a quarter of an hour. Strain it through a flannel bag, 
and put it into the mould. 

Chesbt Jellt. 

1093. The best method of making cherry jelly consists in clarifying 
the sugar, and when it has been skimmed properly and boils,- throw 
the cherries into it ; take them off the fire, and, when the decoction is 
cold, throw in a little liquid clarified cold isinglass. Squeeze three or 
four lemons into it. Strain through a bag, and put it into an earthen 
mould. 

Punch Jellt. 

1094. Take a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce and a half of isinglass, 
the juice of four Seville oranges and four lemons, a wine glassM of 
brandy, and one of mm. Melt the isinglass in a pint or more of boil- 
ing water, then strain it quite hot through a fine sieve upon the punch. 
Stir it, and put it in a mould. 

Another Punch Jelfy, — ^Dissolve an ounce and a half of islti^iAS& >»> "^ 

pint or more of water, with the peel oi a \«msiTi« Tq «w ^sjoasNRx ^\ ^ 

pint of bnadjr, and half that quantity ol r^wsx^ «^^ ^^ V»?«k ^^ "^^^ 



S83 mroLiBH oookebt. 



lemons, sweeten it with a ponnd and a quarter of loaf sugar. Strain 
the water in which the isinglass has been dissolred through a sieve 
npon the punch, then place it on the fire to heat, not to boiL Let it 
stand to settle, and pour it into the mould. 

Basfbbrrt Jxllt. 

1095. Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of water, add 
three-quarters of a pint of raspbeny syrup (with a spoonful of lemon 
juice, or fifteen grains of tartaric acid), boil and skim^ and pour it 
into the moold. 

Excellent Bed Jbllt. 

1096. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of 
water, and add the eighth part of the white of an e|;;g well beaten. 
When nearly dissolved put in one pound of loaf sugar broken, and a 
third of a spoonful of cochineal powdered. Ten minutes before taking 
off the fire, put in the grated rind of three lemons. Strain it through 
muslin, and add a cupful of Madeira, or any other good white wine, 
and the strained juice of four lemons. If it looks thick, gire it one 
boil up. Let it cool before it goes into the mould. The pan should 
be kept covered all the time it is boiling. 

m 

Gelatine de Pommes. 

1097. In a pint of water, boil one pound and a half of white sugar 
until it is reduced to a very thick symp ; then add two pounds of New- 
town pippins, pared, cored, and cut into slices ; squeeze in the juice of 
three lemons, and simmer gently until it is almost a paste ; then ponr 
it into a mould, and, when cold, it will turn out a solid jelly. Serve 
it surrounded with scalded cream in a deep dish. 

Sect. 4. — Stewed Fruits ; to Stew Nobmandt Pippins. 

1098. Soak a dozen pippins in a qnart of cold water, and let them 
stand all night. Strain off the water, and add to it six ounces of 
powdered loaf sugar, six cloves, a glass of Madeira or light wine, and 
a little thin lemon-ped cut in very narrow pieces; boil it iq» toa 
syrup. Put in the apples, and let them simmer very gentlj till tender. 
If tied down in a jar, they will keep good a fortnight. 

Another. — Soak them all mg\il iu cold mat^r '^ next day pour the 
water from them, and to ihree-quaxtctB oi a.^QM3i^ oS. Yv^^voL^^-^^a&l 
a pound of loaf sugar and a latg^ toaa^oouSx^ ol ^p».\«^\«as«k^V^ 



POMHES ^ L'iHPERATRIOE. iSS 

— 

Stew slowly till they are quite tender and mnch swollen, keeping them 
well under the syrup. If not previously soaked a syrup must be made 
of the sugar with water, in which to stew the pippins. 

Stewed Apples, caxled Black Caps. 

1099. Take large French pippins, or golden rennets; cut them in 
half, and lay them with the flat side dovniwards in a dish. Put a 
little currant wine and some fine sugar oyer them, and put them into 
a quick oven for half an hour. Boil some currant wine, or other 
sweet wine, with a little lemon-peel cut in long thin pieces, a small 
quantity of gelatine, a little lemon-juice, and some sugar together, till 
tiie gelatine or Isinglass is dissolved ; put the apples in a dish, and 
pour it over them. The jelly should be set before they are sent to 
table. 

Stewed Apples. 

1100. Pare evenly any good boiling apples of a pretty large size; 
take out the core with a scoop, and put them into a stewpan, with 
water enough to cover them. Add a little sugar, lemon-peel, and 
juice, if the apples require it. Stew them gently till quite tender, 
taking care not to break them. Take them out of the water, to which 
add sugar enough to make a rich syrup, and a peach leaf or teaspoon- 
ful of capillaire; boil it, and, when as thick as cream, pour it in the 
dish round the apples. A little colouring may be given to one side of 
the apple with cochineal, or the juice of red beet-root. 

To Scald Codlins. 

1101. Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a stew-pan ; 
and when full pour as much water as will cover them. Set it over a 
gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the 
thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, 
cream, or custard ; if the latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine 
sugar over the apples. 

POUMES A LImPEBATBICE. 

1102. Take some apples, do not pare them, but score them length- 
wise with a sharp knife ; cut a good piece off the stalk ends, and 
remove the cores ; fill the apples with quince marmalade^ wj^isa^ ^x 
green gage jam, and put them, willi tlafi fLaX Wi^ \Q.^irK^«x5»^>»5^ ■». 

bAking disb, with a pint of chabUs anai Vwo \aXA»-«^o^&«^ ^'^ ^^"^"^ 



284 ENGLISH CXX>KBBT, 

Baste them frequently, and when done serve hot or ooU in the 

sjrup. 

MlBOTOH DB POXKBS. 

1103. Scald six large apples, and when soft enough to do so, pulp 
them, and, after sweetening a little, pile them upon the dish jon pur- 
pose serving them in. Take a teacupfnl of the Hqaor in which thej 
were dressed, and boil the finely shred* rind of a lemon, and time 
ounces of white sugar; then beat well the yolks of three egga, and the 
white of one ; add a dessert-spoonfhl of fine flour, the same of bnuidj, 
and two ounces of fresh butter. Mingle these ingredients well together 
in a saucepan, over a moderate fire ; when perfectly smooth take thea 
off, and pour over the apples ; then whisk the whites of the two eggs 
into a stiff froth, put it upon the miroton, sifting a little sugar over it 
Place it for ten minutes in a slow oven, and serve hot or cold. 

FoMMBS 1 L*Allemande. 

1104. Peel, and cut the fruit into quarters ; take away the pips; pot 
the apples into a stewpan of boiling butter; shake them for S.Ye minates 
over a brisk fire, letting them become nicely browned ; then dust them 
plentifully with fiour, add a little water or Rhine wine, and sugar 
agreeably to taste. Let them simmer for half an hour, and serve with 
the syrup, which should be thickened with a well-beaten egg. 

POMMES A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

1105. Pare some rather small apples, prick them carefully all over, 
and, as you do them, throw them into a syrup made with equal quan- 
tities of water and white sugar. Put them on a slow but not smoky fire, 
and, as soon as they boil, remove them to a little distance from the fire, 
so that they may absorb the syrup, and become gradually clear with- 
out breaking. When they are done, put them into a glass dessert dish, 
and empty a small flask of Eau de Vie de Dantzig into the syrup. Mix 
well, and pour it over the apples. Should you not have this Eau de 
Vic, take a sufficient quantity of refined Hollands, and having procured 
a gilder's leaf of gold, mingle it with the syrup by bruising it with a 
spoon. The principal attraction of this elegant preparation is its 
beautiful transparency, which renders it a recherche ornament upon 
the dessert tables of continental dinner-givers of celebrity. 

2106. Peel some very smaVl aai^T^t^x^Vj ^^.-^^ «vr^«s.^\w& ^f:^xc». 



I 1*0 STEW PEARS. 2Stx 

^^^^— .^^— — ^b^.^— ^»— ^-^— ^1^1 I ■— —^»^i»—^™^— »»—»—»»—«».«».— ——^i^»i^_„ 

^ke off their stalks ; put them iato a stewpan of boiling butter, and 
shake them over a brisk fire until thej are of a nice brown colour ; 
drain them, and arrange them neatlj, with their stalks upwards, upon 
a thick layer of white sugar in a dish. Serre them either warm or col^i.. 

r 

' Red Afplbs in Jsllt. 

1107. Take some prettilj^ formed apples of the pear main, or non- 
such kind, put them into a stewpan, with enough water to cover 
them ; add a spoonful of powdered cochineal, and simmer gently ; 
when the fruit is done take it out, and put it into a dessert dish. 
Make a syrup of the liquor by adding white sugar and the juice of 
two lemons ; when boiled to a jelly put it with the apples, decorating 
the dish with the lemon peel cut into thin slips. 

Plain Baked Apples. 

1108. Choose some nice sizeable apples, rather large; prick them 
Tery well with a coarse needle to prevent their bursting, lay them 
nicely in a baking dish, with their stalks upwards. As they are be- 
ginning to get warm rub a little butter over each, and, when done, 
serve either warm or cold, with the addition of some pounded sngar 
strewed upon them. 

Apples to Btbvt or Bake ^or Familt Use. 

1109. Take any moderate-sized good cooking apples, and put them, 
in a jar, either into a cool oven or water bath with a little water, 
moist or loaf sugar, and lemon-peel ; stew till tender, and serve when 
cold. The lemoB-peel may be either taken out or laid in long narrow 
strips across the apples when served. 

Boasted Apples. 

1110. Select the largest apples ; scoop out the core without cutting 
quite iJirough, fill the hollow with fine brown sugar, and butter if 
approved; let them roast in a slow oven, and serve them up with syrup. 

To Stew Pears. 

1111. Pare and halve the fruit, And lay them in a bright tin or 
enamelled iron saucepan. Then strew over them some lump sugar 
and a few cloves; pour over them some water (not mot^ 1\!a^^ nr:^ 
tapM hr n large quantity of peats). 15\\\ ^^ «wass«^Ms. ^-hsGc^ "^^ 

parfDgs laid doBtly m layers, and oo^«t \iViXi ^^ ^^ ^VjRX^X> 



286 ENGLISH OOOKEBT. 



gently till the pears are tender, and then either b<»l gently or simmer 
for five or six hours till the colour is a deep crimson. When dome, 
and the pears are taken out, add a lump of sugar, preyioosly well 
rubhed on the rind of a lemon, and a little lemon juice to the synipk 
Give it a boil up, and pour it a few times over the pears to giye them 
the same flavour. Should there not be plenty of lump sugar, the pears 
are much longer in acquiring their proper colour. 

1112. Stewed Pears (another Bece^ty less rich), — After paring and 
halving one pound of pears, put them into a well-lined pan with three 
ounces of lump sugar, two-thirds of a pint of water, and a few dores. 
Stew until quite tender. 

Baked Peabs. 

1113. These need not be of a fine sort; some taste better than 
others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but 
do not pare, lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oyen. 
When soft enough to bear it, flatten them with a silyer-spoon. When 
done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or 
four times, and very gently. 

To Stew Quinceb fob Stkup or Jelly. 

1114. Stew them in a little water, but they must not be too long 
boiled, or the juice will become red. When quite tender, leave them 
in their own liquor in a bowl till the following day, when their juice 
will be rich and clear. 

Stewed Peaches. 

1115. Prepare a thin syrup of about six ounces of sugar to half a 
pint of water, with a little lemon juice and a few blanched kernels. 
Pare six peaches, and stew them for twenty minutes gently in the 
syrup. Lay the fruit in a dish; boil up the syrup till it is thick, 
then pour it and the kernels over the peaches. Should the fruit be 
unripe, it should be simmered in boiling water till the skin can easily 
be removed. The above may be served hot at dinner, or cold at 
supper or dessert. 

POMMES A LA FrANOIFANE. 

1116. Take some Bibston pippins, pare and bake them until ihej 
ajce thoroaghly tender, then pnVp l\ie,Tn.\iito «. deep dish, and put over 

ebem a thick layer of Frangipan^, "w\\\c^\& vc«^w^w^V5\«s^%\— i^KaL 
four eggs and four table-spoouiuVa oi ^o\a ^^ \.Q^'Cwa^5S»»SA*^^^i^ 



FAEKCH COOKERY. 287 



a qaart of new milk sufficiently sweetened with white sugar, add six 
macaroons powdered finely, and a gill of orange flower water. Place 
this mixture upon the fire, and as it gets thick stir it well, and pour it 
over the apples. Bake it in a gentle oven for half an hour. 

Chartreusb db Fommes. 

1117. Well hoil half a pound of the best Carolina rice in a quart of 
fresh milk, taking the greatest pains to prevent it from catching at the 
bottom of the saucepan. Fare seven large or nine middling-sized 
Kentish pippins, take out the cores without cutting the fruit quite 
through, put a little raspberry jam into each hole, and fill up with 
cream. Edge a deep pie-dish with a rich light paste ; lay in the apples, 
and level up the spaces between them with the boiled rice. Brush it 
over with the yolk of an egg, dust it well with pounded' loaf sugar, 
decorate it with a few pieces of candied lemon or orange peel, and 
bake it for about forty minutes in a brisk oven. This dish is better 
eaten hot. 



CHAP. XXVI— FBBNCH COOKEBT, AND MISOELLAKEOUS 

BECEIPTS. 

Sect. 1. — ^Fbenoh Cookbrt, as CoMPAfiBD with the English 

School. 

1118. For many years our opposite neighbours have looked down 
upon the cookery of this country with the greatest contempt, con- 
sidering it in a barbarous condition. This low opinion may have been 
well founded in the last century, but I much question whether at 
present we may not have it in our power to return the compliment ; 
though I am ready to admit that we owe a great deal to the French 
for our existing knowledge of the art of cookery. I am not, however, 
attempting to settle the question depending upon the relative inventive 
powers of the two nations, but that connected with the present mocks 
of preparing their food. Let any one sit down to a dinner cooked by 
a first-rate French cook, and say if it is not true that all the dishes 
worth eating are cooked on English principles, although, perhaps, 
dignified with high-sounding French names ; while, on the other hand, 
the veritable French dishes, however beautiful and tempting to t\u^ 
eye they may be, are, when tasted, by no m^a.\i^ ^l ^T^vx«Xfe^«^^"«s^- 
Jam not now speaking from my owa paxV^^^ii^ ^3L^^Y«k"Wi»>^""2^5»»*'^ *► 



288 EirOLIBH 000KEIC7. 



know that the taste of an indiyidnal is no criterion by which to Jndge 
of those helongiDg to the mnltitnde ; bat from close obsenration I 
shonld decidedly saj, that the large proportion of the English 10I0 
have the choice of both knuUy prefer genuine English dishes to those of 
French preparation. Of coarse, it will happen that those who have 
only an occasional opportanitj of gratifying their fancy for noreltyby 
partaking of strange fare, profess to like what to them is a rarity; but 
this is no rale to guide in the choice, and it is only needftd in r«dity 
to consider whether the French hare discoyered any methods of 
cookery more economical, more wholesome, or more palaiabUf than 
oars. Here issae mast join, and I boldly midntun that they hate not. 
I know full well that the French can, and do, liye npon less than the 
English in point of animal food, but they make np ibr this abstinence 
by indulging largely in salads and vegetables ; and in bulk, as well as 
most probably in weight, of food they equal, if they do not go beyond, 
the usual allowance of the English. But do they, or do they not, 
cook this said animal food in a more wholesome mode than we do? 
If it is maintained that they do, I most ask in what way ? Is it io 
their soups ? We have the same. Is it in their fish ? I maintain 
that plain boiled turbot is more wholesome than a vol-au-vent ck turboU 
"With regard to their entries and entremetSy they are only other names 
for our side and comer-dishes, confectionery, and sweets — none of 
which arc certainly to be recommended for their suitability to the 
stomach. If these facts are really what I say, then French cookeiy 
can only claim a superiority in point of flavour; and here the matter 
cannot be settled, since every one will judge for himself. But in eyeiy 
other respect I maintain that, with the aid of the old English cook of 
the early part of this century, we may live quite as economically, and 
in a more wholesome way than even by the aid of Soyer himself. To 
the French system of frying I have given due credit under the section 
treating of that department, but beyond that I know of little real im- 
provement which they can claim ; excepting, perhaps, the mode of 
boiling their fresh beef (bouUli), which would not bear to be presented 
in English style. The plan, however, is a good one, and might cer- 
tainly be adopted in this country with advantage. The English mis- 
take has been, not so much in the poverty of their cookeiy, as in die 
abuse of its abundance of good things. If fine meat were more plenti- 
ful in Paris, we should see it more frequently produced mc naiurd; 
but, with their tough and stringy beef and mutton, and melancholy^ 
looking real, they are compelled to have recourse on all oecaaioBS to 



FRENCH COOKEBT. 289 



those dishes which we only need employ occasionally. English re- 
ceipts for stews, hashes, harricots, fricassees, &c., originally French 
though they may he, are numerous enough, and, when well made, equal 
in flavour to many of the much-vaunted modern French entr^s ; hut 
when ill-made, the fault lies not in the cookery, hut in the cook, who is 
thought nothing of if she confines her attention to English dishes, and 
consequently neglects them in the attempt to reach heyond her limited 
powers. Do we ever see a Frenchman refuse a fine haunch of mutton or 
venison when he has the chance? It is true that he requires a 
diflerently- flavoured sauce to that which is the customary one in this 
country ; but it is not against these that the complaint is made, but 
against our barbarous method of roasting and boiling joints. Plain 
melted butter may be his abomination, and so it is of many English* 
men ; nevertheless, it is the foundation in France, as well as in Eng- 
land, of very many good sauces. What I wish to have understood by 
those who now submit to be called barbarous in cookery, is the faet, 
that, except in making too free use of our splendid butcher*s meat, we 
are not in point of science behind the French. Our principles of cookery 
are quite as well-founded as theirs (saving always the aforementioned 
frying-pan) ; and we have no reason to submit to the alleged snpe-* 
riority which they claim. They are fonder of acids than we are ; but 
that is no scientific discovery. They also indulge in a greater variety 
of flavours than we do ; but that, again, is no improvement in science!, 
for it only tempts the stomach to do that which the Englishman is 
already too prone to do without — ^namely, to eat too much. I am, 
therefore, at a loss to know in what the pre-eminence consists ; and I 
can only come to the conclusion that it is undeserved. The English 
of the last century were bigoted in thinking themselves superior to 
all other nations ; but in the latter half of this they seem determined 
to run into the opposite extreme, and come to the conclusion that 
they are only fit to wash the dishes for their neighbours' chefs de cuisine, 
1119. The argument which I have maintained in the preceding 
paragraph is still farther supported by the fact, that almost all the 
French terms used in their cookery are easily translated into English 
by synonyms, showing that they have had a previous or parallel exist- 
ence, and been named in this country as well as in France. If it were 
otherwise, instead of being merely adopted here by the cook and his 
patrons, they would become part of the English vocabulary, in tha 
same way as many French words in oihei d.eipMX.\Si'Wi\»^%'<as^^s^ «»««»' 
ic^pe, eameig kauteur, Ssc 



290 



ENQLISa COOKERT. 



VOCABtTLABT OT FRK3ICH COOKZarO TUUB TUMBLAXESK 



AteMs, Mnall sllrer Hkewcrs. 

Avtietttt, dixhvs with four comptrtmenttf, 

for tlie u-te of the C(M>k (uld EiiKliab). 
Auiette wAante^ dish handed round. 
Au natureL I'liUii. 
£MH-nutrie, a wuter-balh. 
Beigntt^ a fritter. 
/flif lie, II whitu broth. 
Slanquette, a kind of OricaMce (French 

only). 
Braising, (a peculiar kind of stewing Gong 

omhI In EiiKland, see pace AA). 
Boudin, a French dish, fomij-d of expensive 

forcetnuats. poached and broiled. 
BouiUL b«»lle«!/r«A beef, peculiar to France 
Bouillon^ brotlu 

Buitson, a high standing dish of putj. 
CasteroU^ a stewpan. 
CeuserolA, a rice-crust 
Comjtdte, a mixture of fhilts, also a white 

mixture or ragout of small birds or 

pigeons. 
a>mpotiee, lowest dl.oh to hoTd the compOte. 
Court bouillon, a preparation of wine, Ac., 

in which titth Is boiled. 
Coruomint, a strong gravy (donr). 
Coulis, cuius, or rich brown gravy. 
Croustiide. a hollow crust of bread formed 

to hold niincc.4, Ac. 
Croquettes, savoury minces. 
Crouton, a sippet fried. 
£n papillotle, U\ paper (oiled). 
JSn couronne. In tiie shapo of u crown. 
Eminc^, nilncod. 
Entries, corner or side dlsbcs served with 

the flrst courses. 
Entremets, ditto, with the second and third 

courses. 
Feuilletage, puiT-paste. 
Friture, frying-pan. 
Farce, forcemeat. 
Fricandeau, a stew of veal (see Fricandean). 



OtafeoM, eake. 

Oras, made with meat 

Oratimert to make crisp, to grilL 

JUoisMi, a mlztnre of eream and ^g to 

thicken white soup. 
iiaigre^ without meat. 
MarinadA, a liquor prepared with vinegar 

for boiling fish, kc 
ifateiote, a kind of stew oTftsh. 
Meringue, a very light cake, made of sugar 

and white of egg beaten up. 
Mtroton, a meat dish (see Mlroton). 
NouiUes, a paste made of egg and flour. 
Noix de veau, tbe part of the fillet of veal 

near the udder. 
Panierts, dresaed with bread-crumbs. 
Passer, to firy lightly. 
Pignit larded on the anrfhoe only. 
PoduU, a liquor concocted to boil fowls in. 
Pot-aU'feu, an economical dish (page 8L) 
Pipage, broth or soup. 
Pur^ meat. Ash, &G., pounded andpress»t 

throniih a par^ preeser and sieve to 

remove the lumps. 
QueneUa, a kind of forcemeat 
Rissoles, small fHed pastry, both savoury 

and sweet 
Ragout, a rich kind of atew or sauce with 

sweetbreads, &c. 
Roux, a thickening of flour or butter. 
Salmi, H hash of half-dressed game. 
Saute, fried in the French style (page 51). 
Singer, to flour the stewpan. 
Tamis, a strainer or sieve of woollen canvai 
Timbale, a pie made In a peculiar mould. 
Tourte, a species of tart. 
Vanner, to take up a sauce with a spoon In 

a peculiar manner. 
VelotUe, a rich sauce. 
Vol-au-vetU, a raised crust of ornamental 

puff paste. 



After carefully examining the above list, which, I believe, compre- 
hends nearly all the terms used in the French cutsine, it is ridiculous 
to attempt to maintain that, except in the arrangement of the letters, 
they have any thing peculiar. Their words are composed of different 
changes of the members of the alphabet, but they are nearly all repre- 
sented in our tongue by corresponding ones as good as theirs ; and it 
might be just as well maintained that a fine roasted Norfolk turkey is 
improved by giving it the name of dindon roti, as to allege that potage 
is better than soup, or a vol-au-vent more scientific than a patty. By 
all means adopt improvements, whether French, German, Italian, or 
Eussian; bat do not take the bad with the good; nor is it necessary 



8CI0TGH EGGS. 291 



to despise oar own really wholesome and appetizing dishes hecause 
they are our own. I fullj admit that the Prench, as individuals, are 
more inventive than we are, and generally take to cookery better than 
the English, hut that their national cookery is superior to ours, I as 
fully deny. 

Sect. 2.— Miscellanhous Cookbbt Becbipts. 

To Boil Eggs. 

1120. Boil some water in a small saucepan ; put in the eggs care- 
fully with a spoon, taking the time by a clock or watch ; boil for two 
minutes and a half to three and a half, according to the taste of the 
consumer. The first-mentioned time scarcely turns the white all 
through, while the last almost hardens the yolk. Three minutes 
boiling will be preferred by most people, as the whites are then just 
set, and the yolks a little thickened in consistence. If the weather is 
very cold, it is better to warm the eggs a little before boiling them, or 
they are very apt to crack from the sudden expansion by heat. 

To Poach Eggs. 

1121. Set a stewpan of water on the fire ; when boiling, slip an egg, 
previously broken in a cup, into the water ; when the white looks done 
enough, slide an egg- slice under the egg, and lay it on toast and 
butter, or spinach. As soon as enough are done, serve hot. If not 
fresh laid, they will not poach well, and without breaking. Trim the 
ragged parts of the whites, and make them look round. 

BuTTEBED Eggs, or Egg Toast. 

1122. Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together; put a quarter 
of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put it in boiling water, 
stirring it till melted ; pour the butter and eggs into a saucepan ; keep 
a basin in the hand, just holding the saucepan in the other, over a slow 
part of the fire, shaking it one way as it begins to warm ; pour it into 
the basin and back; then hold it again over the fire, alternately 
stirring it constantly in the saucepan, and pouring it into the basin, 
more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot with- 
out boiling. Serve on toasted bread, or in a basin, to eat with salt 
fish or red herrings. 

ScoTcu Egos. 
1123, Boil hard &ve pullets' egge, aad, mOaouX, x«n3LWfli5t^Qo^''i^**^ 



292 KNousn oookkrt. 



cover completely with a fine lelisbing forcemeat, in which let lenped 
ham or' chopped anchoTj bear a dne proportion. Fiy of a beaotifnl 
yellow brown, and ferre with a gfood t(n,\j in the diah« 

To Bon. Eoos Habd. 

1124. Boil them ten minntef, moving them gentlj to change the 
under side, and pat them bj to get coM. 

Oatmeal Porridob (a ^tnume Scotch receipt). 

1125. Put as mnch water as will make as mnch porridge as is wished 
into a saucepan, let it boil ; then take a handfal of meal in the left 
hand, letting it fall gently into the water while stirring the meal anci 
water qaickly round with the right, with a wooden stirrer or spoon; 
do this till it is the thickness of thick gmel, then salt to the taste; 1ft 
it boil for ten minutes, add a little more boiling water, and boil it other 
five minutes, which makes it quite amooth and veiy digestible (boiling 
it well is the great secret for making it digestible and nourishing for 
invalids). It is poured out in pudding dishes for each member. of ii 
Scotch family, and they dip each spoonful into a jugful of milk, and 
thus make a hearty and nourishing breakfast. The poorer class of 
children often have it for their evening meal too, and in this way it 
forms the principal food for Scotch children, who seldom ever tire of 
it till they grow up. 

HicB Porridge. 

1126. On half a pound of rice pour three quarts of boiling water; 
let it swell till it becomes quite a jelly. Add one quarter (or half) a 
pound of oatmeal, mixing it first with cold water ; stir it well together, 
add one ounce of onions chopped fine, half an ounce of bacon fat, 
butter, or lard, salt and pepper to taste ; boil all together, stirring all 
the time. 

Flour Milk 

1127. Is made by mixing up a table-spoonful of wheat -flour in 
water to a thin paste, then stirring it into a pint of boiling xnilk till it 
thickens. It may be eaten with sugar or treacle. 

HiCE AJfD Sago Milks 

1128. Are made by washing the grains nicely, and simmering with 
milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The former sort requires 
lemon, spice, and sugar; the latter i^ good without any thing to 
flftFOurit. 



GALLING CCTRDS ASTD WHEY. 29S 



(^ Bread axcd Milk. 



s 



1129. Cat or break stale bread into fragments, then boil in milk fot 
a quarter of an honr. 

FnUMBTT. 

1130. Boil a quarter of a pint of wheat for three or four hours, then 
add one quart of milk, with two spoonfuls of flour mixed with it, two 
eggs, three parts of a small teacnpful of raisins and currants, a little 
lemon-peel and cinnamon. Boil for a quarter of an hour, and serve. 

t Another, — ^Bake wheat in water till eveiy com is broken and com- 
f pletelj swelled out, adding more water as it is taken up by the wheat 
Tlien add some milk, sugar, and nutmeg to taste, either with or 
without currants and raisins; just give it a boil np, adding at the last a 
little cream thickened with flour. 

CCBDB JJX1> CSBAM* 

1131. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little warm, anid 
then add rennet or gallino. When the curd is come, lade it with a 
saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form you please. Fill 
it ap as the whey drains ofij without breaking or pressing the curd. 
If turned only two hours before wanted, it is very light j but those who 
like it harder may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. 
Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in 
the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. 

Another Way. — ^To four quarts of new milk warmed put from a pint 
to a quart of buttermilk strained, according to its sourness ; keep the 
pan covered until the curd is of firmness to cut three or four times 
across with a saucer ; as the whey leaves it, put it into a shape, and 
fill up until it is solid enough to take the form. Serve with plain cream, 
or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. 

Galling Cubds and Whey, as in Italt. 

1132. Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards of tur- 
keys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain ; rub them 
well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and 
delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break ofi^ some 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water; in eight or nine 
hours use the liquor in the same way as other rennet. 

Buttermilk. 
2233, This, if made of sweet cream, ia a deVJy^ooa ask^tstfii^'^^*'^*' 



y 



294 ZNOLIflH OOOKEBT. 



some food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still more 
light ; bnt it is not generally liked. Buttermilk, if not very sour, is 
also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, 
and mixed with a yery little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes 
and rice -puddings, and therefore it is economical to chum before the 
cream is too stale to make buttermilk fit for nothing but to feed pigs. 

London Syllabub. 

1134. Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, with 
nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two 
quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine is not rather sharp, it will 
require more for this quantity of milk. 

Staffordshire Syllabub. 

1135. Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg 
into a bowl, and milk into it ; or pour warm milk from a large teapot 
some height into it. 

Somersetshire Syllabub. 

1136. In a large china bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sheny 
or other white wine ; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In twenty 
minutes' time cover it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over it 
nutmeg, and put in pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. 

Devonshire Junket. 

1137. Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then pnt 
some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without break- 
ing the curd. Many people add a little brandy and rum in equal pro- 
portions. 

Posset Syllabub. 

1138. Mix a quart of thick cream with one pound of lump sugar 
and a pint of white wine ; rub a few lumps of sugar upon the rind of 
two or three lemons to extract the essence, and pour upon them the 
juice of three lemons ; add this to the cream, and whisk it one way 
for half an hour, or till thick. 

Eyerlastino Syllabub. 

1139. Take half a pint of thick cream, half a pint of white wine, a 
little brandy, the juice of a small lemon, and the essence of the rind 

rubbed off upon lumps of sugax, axi^ 8A<i<^ \,o \.\i<^ yaicA^ half a poimd 



MELTED CHEESE. 295 



"^ of Inmp sugar sifted ; mix the whole well together, and whisk until 

"■ quite thick. 

i 

^ BUTTEBMILK CuRDS. 

* 1 140. Take three pints of buttermilk and put it in a broad basin ; take 
(' a pint and a half of new milk, and boil it with half a nutmeg till it 
^ relishes ; pour it hot on the buttermilk, and let it stand two or three 
hours, till the whey is cleared from the curds ; put it on a thin cloth, 
and let it hang till the whey is all drained from it. Serve it up with 
'J cream, sugar, and grated nutmeg. 



To Pot Cheese. 

1141. Take two pounds of cheese, one of Cheshire and one of 
Gloucestershire ; to this add three spoonfuls of mountain wine and 
two spoonfuls of made mustard ; beat all these together in a marble 
mortar, and then put it into pots for use. 

Another Way. — Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, one 
ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded sugar, 
a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine ; press it down in a 
deep pot. 

Toasted Cheese. 

1142. Lay a slice of cheese on toasted bread buttered on both sides ; 
put it to the fire, and, when the cheese begins to toast, mix some beer, 
pepper, and salt, and pour over it. The beer should be sufiicient to 
moisten the bread. 

Toasted Cheese to Come up after Dinner. 

1143. Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks 
of two egf^s, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter ; 
beat the whole well in a mortar with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, 
and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper 
pieces, lay the paste, as above, thick upon them into a Dutch oven, 
covered with a dish, till hot through ; remove the dish, and let the 
cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. 

Melted Cheese. 

1144. Take two ounces each of good Cheshire and of Parmesan 
cheese, grate them, and add about double l\ie v^ev^V q>1 ^^Oci\w\i^'aX«a. 
yolks of eggs and melted batter ; mix them YieW Xo^'e.'C^^x, ^\^ -^^^^-^^^ 

andsMlt to the taste, and then put to U t\wi'w>a^t^ ^^ ^^ ^'SK??'*'*^^^ 



296 EXGUSH cxx>nEEr. 



have been beaten tepantelj; stir them lightly in, and bake it iaa 
deep di«h filled but half fall, as it will rise veiy mnch. Serve whea 
qaite hot 

W1CL8H Rabbit. 

IU5. Toatt a slice of bread on both ridea, and butter it; toast ft 
slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, 
and toast the other with a salamander ; rob mnstard over, and sene 
very hot, and covered. 

Cheesb Toast. 

1146. Mix some fine bntter, made mnstard, and salt into a man; 
spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester 
cheese upon them. 

Akchott Toast. 

1147. Bone and skin six or eight anchovies; ponnd them to s 
mass with an ounce of fine bntter till the colour is equal, and then 
spread it on toasts or rusks. 

Another Ifiny. — Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them 
in clariticd batter ; wash three anchovies split, pound them in a mortar 
with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair-sieve, and spread it 
on the toast when cold ; then quarter and wash some anchovies, and 
lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. 

FiyoERS OF Cheese. 

1148. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of grated cheese, half a 
pound of butter, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne dissolved in a tea- 
cup full of hot milk. Mix all well together with the hand, roll it out 
and cut it into the size and shape of finger biscuits, and bake them 
in a quick oven, taking care not to scorch them. 

Macaroni. 

1 149. "Wash one ounce of macaroni, and soak it in one pint of new milk 
six hours, then stew it in the milk ; or drop it at once mtxy the milk, and 
stew it till quite tender for about one hour and a half. Lay it in the 
dish, grate cheese finely over it with some butter and bread crumbs, 
brown with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. 

Fairy Butter. 

1150. Take two ounces of butter^ two ounces of sugar, the hardyolki 



PEPPERMINT DB0P8. 29i 



i)f two eggs, and one Naples biscuit ; beat all these well in a mortar, 
add a little orange or other flavouring, press it through a siere, and 
garnish with biscuits round it. The Naples biscuit may be omitted. 

Chestnuts to Boast por Dessebt. 

1151. First boil them for eight or ten minutes, then prick the shells, 
or cut off a small portion from the pointed end, to prevent their 
bursting. Before they are cool, lay them to roast in an oven or before 
the fire for nearly a quarter of an hour. They must be tried to see if 
well done; and served very hot in a napkin. 

Sect. 3. — Confectioner's Beceipts. 

Mock Ice. 

1152. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a breakfast cup of hot 
water ; beat up a pot of strawberry or any other preserve with a pint 
of cream, pass it through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon and a teacup- 
ful of sugar, then add the isinglass when nearly cold, whisk it together, 
and when it begins to thicken put it in a mould. 

Another Mock Ice. — Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a little water, 
let it strain and cool. Put the j nice of three lemons, or half a pint of fruit 
jelly or fruit to one pint of cream, with some sugar — whisk, and add 
the cooled isinglass. Whisk again well, and pour into moulds. 

Fruit Drops op Lemon Juice. 

1153. Mix a quantity of lemon juice with sifted sugar, nearly thick 
enough for a spoon to stand upright in. Put it in a deep pan and 
make it quite hot on the fire, stirring it all the time, but do not let it 
come to a boil, then mix in a small quantity more sugar. Warm 
it, then chalk the spout of the pan, and with a small stick drop it on 
tin or pewter plates in small drops. When cold, take them off the 
plates, and put them in the stove or sieves to dry. 

Ginger Drops (a good Stomachic), 

1154. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar with a 
little sugar, to a paste ; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger 
with one pound of loaf sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and 
boil altogether to a candy, and drop it on paper, as for lemon drops. 

Peppermint Drops. 
IJ55. Found &nd sift four ounces of do\x>Ae-T^^Ti^^%TSL^«t,\i^'^*'^^-^^'^ 



298 XNOLISH CX>OKEBT. 



the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth, then add sixty drops of 
oil of peppermint, beat it well, and drop on white paper as aboTe^ and 
drj at a distance from the fire. 

Batafia Dbops. 

1156. Blanch and beat in a mortar foor onncea of bitter and two of 
sweet almonds, with a part of a pound of sugar sifted, then add the 
remainder of the pound of sugar, and the whites of two eggs, making 
a paste ; of which put little balls, the size of a nutmegs on wafer-paper, 
and bake gently on tin plates. 

TOFFT. 

1 157. Mix one pound of coarse sugar, half a pound of treacle, a little 
butter, one tea-spoonful and a half of ginger, the same of mixed spice, 
let it boil for half an hour, grease a pewter plate and poor it in, then 
let it cool. 

Eybrtom Toffy*. 

1158. Mix one pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of treacle, half s 
pound of butter, with the rind of half a lemon ; boil all orer a slow 
lire an hour, and pour it upon tins well buttered. 

Barley Sugar. 

1159. Dissolve a pound and a half of lump sugar in half a pint of 
water, with the white of half an egg; when it is at candy height (see 
Economical Housekeeper) add a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and 
boil it quickly till it recovers its previous condition. Pour it over a 
marble slab, and when it becomes stiff cut it into strips, and twist it 

To Prepare Fruit for Children in a morr Wholesomb Wat 

THAN IN Pies and Puddings. 

1160. Put apples or pears sliced, plums, currants, gooseberries, &c, 
into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as is necessaiy 
among them ; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, 
and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread or 
rice may be either stewed with the fruit, or added when eaten ; the 
rice being plain boiled. 

1161. Take either raspbeTtV^a, a^T\co\.%, ox ^\vm%% \\i\\s&<^ 'ewaa.'vj. 
Wdter till they are soft, then p\x\p xXi^m \\ixov^^ tiw «v^>i^^ %.tx^ v^ ^^ 



APPLES A l'amebicaine. 299 

pound of pulp put ten ounces of powdered lump sugar, and threo 
j whites of egg ; beat them well with your hand for two hours, then 
drop them on cards with the edges turned up, or sheets of paper, on a 
baking tin. Sift sugar on the cards or paper before dropping them. 
l>ry them gently on a stOTC, and when they slip off the paper they 
may be stored away in tin cases. 

Meringued Apples. 

1162. Pare and core some large pippin apples, but do not quarter 
them ; wash them in cold water, and put them wet in a deep baking 
dish, not touching; pour in enough water to preyent burning, and 
bake them till tender, but not broken ; take them out and set them to* 
cool, removing any juice ; when cold, fill the core-hole with preserve or 
jelly, and cover them all over with a meringue put on in table- 
spoonfuls, and smooth it with the blade of a knife dipped often in 
water; then dredge the surface with sifted sugar, and put in a cool 
oven till the meringue is hardened. A meringue or icing is made of 
beaten white of egg, thickened with sifted sugar (in the proportion of 
the whites of four eggs to one pound of sugar), the egg being beaten 
to a stiff froth, then the sugar beaten in, a spoonful at a time ; flavour 
it with lemon juice or rose water. 

Dbied Apples a L'Akolaise. 

1163. Put them into a very slack oven, three or four days succes- 
sively, and as they become soft gently flatten them, by keeping a slight 
weight over them when they are out of the oven. The heat may be 
rather increased towards the last. 

PoMMES Praline E 8. 

1164. Squeeze the juice of two or three lemons into a small pipkin 
or enamelled saucepan. Take some apples (the smallest you can get), 
peel them, remove the cores, and cut them lengthwise into thin slices, 
throw them into the boiling lemon juice, shake them well for a minute 
or two over the fire, take them off and put them aside to absorb the 
lemon juice as much as possible. When quite cold, put them into a 
syrup of boiling sugar, let it simmer until the syrup is turned to sugar 
again ; take out the fruit and let it become dry. 

Apples a L'Ameuicais'b. 
2165. These are dried by taking some batkixitt ^-Y^'fc'^ -^«c«y5^ «»5 



800 SNOUSR CX>OKiaTi 



coring them, and cutting all np into thin slices, which are threaded 
npon string, and hang in dnr aity places, where they soon get-perfectlj 
dry, and are nsed for sances, 4bc^ hj dressing them in STmp. 

Afplb Chogoljltb. 

1166. In a qaart of new milk hoil a pound of scraped French choco- 
late, and six oances of white sngar. Beat the yolks of six eggs, snd 
the whites of two, and, when the chocolate has come to a hoil, remoreit 
from the fire, gradually add the eggs, stirring well at the time. Hare 
ready a deep dish, at the hottom of which yon have placed a good 
layer of pulped apples sweetened to taste, and seasoned with pow- 
dered cinnamon ; pour the chocolate gently OTcr it, and place the 
dish upon a saucepan of boiling water. When the cream is set firmly 
it is done. Sift powdered sngar over it, and glace with a red-hot 
shorel, if yon hare nothing better. This preparation is not only TCiy 
delicious, but exceedingly salutaty, on account of the apples being s 
corrective to the too great richness of the chocolate. 

Cider Cup. 

1167. To two quarts of cider add two glasses of sherry, one of 
brandy, and one of cura9oa, the peel of half a lemon, pared very thin, 
sugar, ginger, and nutmeg to the taste; when all is mixed, add a 
bottle of soda-water ; garnish with a branch of borage. 

Plain Cider Cup. 

1168. To one quart of cider put two table-spoonfals of moist sugar, 
one tea-spoonful of ginger, and a little nutmeg with a piece of 
toasted bread put in hot. 

A Cold Cup. 

1169. One quart of cider, a quarter of a pint of sherry, two wine 
glasses of brandy, half a pound of loaf sagar, the peel of one lemon 
pared thin, and half a lemon sliced in, with the rind of another lemon 
rubbed on lumps of sagar, a little nutmeg and ginger, and some sprigs 
of borage and balm. In hot weather, put in a few lumps of ice. 

Apple Posset. 

1170. Boil some slices of fine white bread in a pint of milk; when 
quite soft take it off the fite, s^ttttxv \\. VwV wwgaLr, and put in a 

epoonfal of powdered gmgex-, pouT\x\Tv\.otlw\iQr«\MA^g^^^^^aJ^'<i^^^ 
the palp of three or four niccVy \3a^t^ a.^^^^*. 



B0ILING8. 301 



CHAP. XXIII.— COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 
Sect. 1. — ^Bemabks. 

1171. The Object op this Chapter is twofold — lat, To enable 
those who are anxious to benefit their poorer neighbours, to cook for 
them occasionally soups, puddings, &c., which mav be nourishing and 
wholesome, and jet their cost maj be so trifling as not to be felt in a 
moderately large establishment ; and, 2nd, To afford such information 
as may be imparted by oral teaching, on the kinds of cookery and 
general management of food most suitable for those who are obliged 
to live upon a very small weekly stipend. Economy is the keystone 
of each ; but it is very differently applied in the one from the other. 
Thus, many things in a large establishment are useful to the poor man, 
nnd yet he cannot procure them by purchase, even if so disposed. 
Such are the boilings of meat, what are called '* broken victuals " or 
" spraps," and many other things which are not made use of by those 
who can afford to despise them ; bnt which to the badly-fed child or 
adult are positive luxuries, because they consist of articles which their 
systems call for in the most urgent manner. '* Waste not what your 
neighbours want," is an adage which the rich man should treasure up 
and act upon ; and if so, many a cottage which is now rarely gladdened 
with the sight of animal food, would be made comfortable at times, if 
not always so. 

Sect. 2. — ^Tuk Rich Man's Superfluities. 

Boilings. 

1 172. The cook should be charged to save the boilings of every piece 
of meat, ham, tongue, &c., however salt ; as it is easy to use only 
a part of thenu mixed with an equal or double quantity of fk^sh 
water; and by the addition of more vegetables — ^the bones of the 
meat used in the family — the pieces of meat that come from table 
on the plates — and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal — ^there will be some 
gallons of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits of 
meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; but the 
bones should be boiled in the digester till they yield their nourish- 
ment. If the things are ready to put in the bollet «l% ?,qw\ «a Njcvfc\skft»^- 
is served, it will save the fresh fire for second wi^Vva^, 'Ssvw:^^^^'^ 

soup be poor of meat, the long boiling oi X\i«i \iQ\i«a «xA. ^oSjassoX 



S02 BNGLI8H OOOKEET. 



YCf;:c tables, will afford better nourishment than tho laborioni poor can 
obtaiu ; especially as tbej are rarelj tolerable cookSi and have not 
fuel to do justice to what they buy. In eveiy family there is some 
superfluity; and, if it is prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit 
will be very great to tho receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the 
pvcr. In times of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of sonp could be 
dealt out weekly at an expense not worth mentioning, even thon^ 
the vegetables were bought ; and if, in any village containing ten 
gcutlemen*s houses, the quantity of ten gallons were made in eadi, 
there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome and agreeable food 
given weekly fur the supply of forty poor £funilies, at the rate of two 
gallous and a half each. 

Bbfusb Yeoetablbb. 

1173. Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the enter leaves of 
lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; cnt them 
small, and throw in to any quantity of boilings, with the thick part 
of peas, after they have been pulped for soup; or grits, or coane 
oatmeal, which have been used for gruel ; or bread-crumb and refase 
pieces of bread. 

Skimmed Milk. 

1174. Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable 
present, and always a very acceptable one where there are children; 
while in a gentleman's house it is only fit for pig's wash, or at all 
events it is used for that purpose wherever cows are kept sufficient to 
make butter for the family. 

A Cheap Pudding. 

1175. When the oven is hot a large pudding may be baked, and 
pivcn to a sick or young family ; and when made as follows, tbe 
trouble and cost are little : — ^Into a deep tin or pan put half a ponnd 
of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of skim milk, 
and two ounces of dripping ; set it cold in the oven. It will take a 
good while, but is on excellent solid food. 

Crumb Pudding. 

i 1 76. Serve all the CTnm\>« \e^ u^oxv V>cv^ <3L«i>3R. ^\vTv\i^>3cA,<««el^ add . 
to these any waste pieces oi bteaA. "BxiX. \!ti«ni VnSft %.\»*aea^^^*>j&L'w^ 



THE POOR man's COOKERY. 803 

ounces of treacle mixed up with them. Soak them in enough watet 
to make them swell. Then tie them in a cloth in the usual waj, and 
boil half an hour. Hundreds of poor children would he glad of such a 
pndding. 

A Sopped Toast. 

1177. A very good meal may he thus easily made : — Cut a very thick 
opper crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt heef is boiling 
and nearly ready ; it will attract some of the fat, and, swelled out, will 
be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. 

An Excellent Pudding fob the Poob. 

1178. One pound of common rice stewed four hours in four quarts 
of water, then add half a pound of treacle and a little salt. Simmer 
half an hour after this, and stir it up well, 

A Savoury Babied Dish. 

1179. Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two onions, 
two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint of split peas, or whole 
ones if previously soaked, pepper and salt, into an earthen jug or 
pan, and pour on two quarts of water. Cover it very close, and bake 
it with the bread. 

Good but Plain Plum Pudding, suited fob Chbistmas ob ant 

Festive Occasion. 

1180. Mix three-quarters of a peck of flour, six large loaves, 
eight pounds of suet, six pounds of raisins, six pounds of currants, ten 
eggs, three pounds of brown sugar, one ounce of allspice, a quart of 
old ale, a bottle of raisin wine, and milk enough to make it of a proper 
consistence. Whether made into two puddings or more, it should be 
boiled for full twenty hours ; if made some little time previously, it 
may be hung up in a dry place, and if boiled again a few hours before 
serving it will be all the better. 

Sect. 3. — The Poob Man's Cookbbt. 

1181. Under this head will be included directions suitable for the 
poor man's guidance, or rather for that of his wife, in conducting his 
humble cookery. I have already observed, ^«kX ^^-^^^^wt^ ^2^^ 
iDstinct are, in the main, pretty sure guides Xo xsi«Ai \xv ia^^O«si%'V>^^ 



304 srousH cookert. 

diet ; but there are number1e»i exceptions to this rule, and none more 
marked than in the cate of the poor man. With the pittance wb!«fa 
he lias at his command, he it often tempted to spend too much in 
wavs which do not hrin(( him the best retam for his monej. Thni^he 
will buy nine-pennyworth of^ns white bread in preference to eight of a 
snperior qiiiility in reality ; bnt being more brown in appearance, and 
not patron iied by his employers, he fancies it is not as good, and 
decides against it without giving it a trial. Again, in his desire for 
present iMppincss (or freedom from care the sensation should periuipi 
be called), he spends a day*s wages in beer or gin, which woold, if Itid 
oat in meat, make all the difference to him for the next week between 
the food which his system requires and that which he can then pro- 
cure. Lastly, the poor man in his ignorance is led to mistake 
the promptings of his palate for an infallible guide, and thus ii 
tempted to huy fat bacon or mutton to eat with his potatoes instead of 
such lean partd as will supply the nitrogen in which they are deficient 
It is chiefly in this neglect of azotised food that the poor are mistaken, 
and the roason is that its effects are not immediate, like those of alco- 
holic stimulants, nor is it in small quantities so full of flavour as fned 
fat, and therefore it is no wonder that both the one and the other 
should be preferred to it. Besides these reasons for choosing certain 
kinds of food peculiar to himself, it is unfortunately a fact that the 
l.ibourin^-man nnd his family seldom have their stomachs overloaded 
with fooil, and consequently it is of no importance to them to avoid 
that which is in itself too bulky; potatoes, therefore, are less objec- 
tionable in large quantities than they arc to the overloaded stomach. 
But if with their potatoes, which contain very little nitrogen, they 
could mix lean meat or its juice, together with some gelatine, it would 
be of far more benefit than the fat which they select with so much 
care. With bread, abounding in nitrogen, fat bacon or mutton is the 
proper mixture, or with beans, peas, or cabbage ; but with potatoes 
— milk, buttermilk, gravy, or meat should be the proper flavouring 
material. It is of great importance, whenever the educated man is 
anxious to benefit bis poorer neighbours, that these facts should be 
well known, so that he may be able to afford useful advice in the se- 
lection of the proper kinds of food. It may be here as well to repeat 
the various articles of food suited to the poor man, and to jjive them 
under the respective heads of azottzed and non-azotized, so that he mat 
have reconrse to any of t\\e iovmw \\%\. Vo sw^r^^ ^^ ^^^Ate^c^ in the 
azote of the latter, or vice rcrad. 



YABIOUS KIKDS OF CHEAP FOOD. ZOS 

Vasioub Eikds of Chkap Food suitable to thb Poor Man. 
azonzbd. deficient in azotb. 

Bullock's, pig's, calf's, or sheep's Potatoes, 

liver, melt, or kidney. Bice. 

Pig's blood for black puddings. Fat (dripping) . 

Inferior pieces of beef. Lard. 

Sheep's trotters. Bacon fat 

Sheep's head and pluck. 

Cheap fish. 

Peas and beans 

Mushrooms, 
bbages, cauliflower, brocoli, oatmeal, bread, milk, and buttermilk, 
ty be considered as containing a proper proportion of the four 
ments, and merely requiring any flayouring matter mixed with 
sm to suit the palate. It will therefore be necessary to adapt the 
\t in this list ; so that, for instance, potatoes, as the cheapest of all 
»ds, may be mixed with some one or other articles in the opposite 
/ ; while peas and beans, again, require the addition of dripping, lard, 
bacon, to make them in the same way suitable to the demands of 
5 system. In the first place, then, we will see how liver, pig's 
»od, ox cheek, or sheep's head and trotters, may each be cooked to 
vantage, so as to make a good and cheap meal, with potatoes or rice, 
the poor man. It must be remembered that we have not only to 
isider what is the best food for the labourer, but what is the best for 
money; and, if this precaution is neglected, it only leads to his 
ecting other and perhaps really useful advice, by the idea that the 
iriser is not practically acquainted with his necessities. In a very 
U-intended little book on Domestic Economy, lately published by 
3 of her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools, the first item given under 
\ head of " Recipes for Economical Cookery," is a cheap mode of 
king Irish stew, in which '* good beef sausages and a little drip- 
ig" are ordered, with potatoes, to replace a neck of mutton, which is 
J usual animal part of the concoction. Now, every one knows that 
jf sausages are sold at nearly, or in some places quite, double the 
ce of necks of mutton and the coarse parts of beef, which would 
answer better for the stew than the expensive sausages ; so that a 
w made of them would, instead of being economical, be quite the 
'erse, and such a recommendation would at once conde.\svft. ^3X ^Jaft. 
isecutive pieces of advice in the judgment o^ \\i^ ^^x^^scL'vV^Nxvfe.^ 
receipt, although they might be, and aie,Tft^^ ^\a^S.\s5u ^^iJw^^sis. 



S06 BIGLTSH CX>OKEBr. 









Ld. 


• •• 




•«• 


• 


••• 




••• 


11 


• •• 




••• 


«| 


••• 




• •• 


1 


••• 




••• 


Ok 



thii caution the following saroaiy compoands may be adopted, vlueh 
shall, at the same time, be as cheap as such messes can be WMik, 
provided thej contain sufficient noarishment of both kinds. 

Bullock's Liyeb Frisd with Poxjltqbs. 

11 82. This dish requires yeiy peculiar nuanagement, as it isTerjtpt 
to b3 made hard in the dressing. Two or three pounds of lirer, am 
Ump, arc to be stewed in a rery small quantity of water for atlesstflutt 
hours ; then take it out and stew an equal quantity of potatoes ud of 
cabbages, carrots, or turnips, in the liquor, adding pepper and silt to 
the taste; when nearly done, but noi quite, take them out of tk 
liquor, and break them into small pieces about the sixe of a pigen^ 
egg ; after which, having heated a little lard or dripping in a f^Tiog-pOi 
they, with the liver sliced thin, are to be put in and fried till thef m 
sufficiently done. Lastly, after taking out the whole, the liquor is pit 
into the pan, thickened with a little flour, and warmed up, when, a 
being poured over the liver, &c, the dish is complete, and is a voj 
savoury one when properly prepared according to the above direetiooL 
The cost being as below, varying of course in certain localities, in sooe 
of which, for instance, bullock's liver is scarcely to be had at any price, 
and there these remarks will not apply. When, however, the prkei 
are ascertained, the proper correction can readily be made. 

S lb. bollock's liver ... ••• .*• •«« ••• ■•• 

m llK pOUIvOcS •«. ••. ••« ... ... ••« «•« 

1 lb. cabbage or carrots ... 

S ox. lard or dripping ... ... 

Spioe, flour, and salt ,„ •. •« ••• ... 

I 

This will make, with one or two pounds of bread, a dinner for i I 
labouring-man and his wife, together with from five to six children, \ 
according to their ages ; the whole cost, with the bread, not exceeding 
one shilling, independently of the firing. If a smaller proportion of 
liver is used, the cost will be still less. 

Bullock's Liver and Bice. 

1183. Soak three pounds of liver for half an hour in water to get 
out the blood, then boil it gently in three quarts of water with one 
pound of rice ; add two or three onions, a little parsley, and, towaidi 
the last, pepper and salt to tli^taat^,xo\j.«!efiL« V\\Viw»\aa^58^^ 

«f rioegar. At the time of aeieLiTiii t\i«k %\?^R^ c^ ^^>2«%.x Vos*^ «b»v 



THBHTLT. SOT 



and the addition at that time of a rasher or two of bacon is a great im« 
provement. This is sufficient for the same number of persons as the 
last, when eaten either with plain boiled potatoes or bread — the cost 
being also about the same. 

LiYBS Fttbdimg. 
1184. Stew a pound and a half of liver in a yery small quantity of 
water for an hour and a half, then cut it up into small squares, season 
with pepper and salt, and add either some pieces of bacon-fat, beef-fat, 
or mutton-fat Make a crust of dripping and flour, as directed at 
page 199, and line a quart basin ; put in the liver and fat, well mixed 
together, pour in the gravy remaining in the stew-pan, and cover with 
crust ; then boil in a cloth for twQ hours. This, with three pounds of 
potatoes, will go as far as (1182) or (1183). The prices being — 























■.d. 


I)IU oriiver... .,. 


... 


•*• 


... 


• •• 


• •• 


.•• 


... 


... 


... 


8 


4 oz. of bacon, or fkt 


... 


... 


*•• 


• *. 


• •• 


.•• 


... 


•a. 


... 


Si 


Flour «ad drlppiog... 


..• 


•.. 


.M 


•■• 


... 


• •• 


... 


... 


•«. 


s 


Bpice 


.«• 


•*• 


... 


... 


... 


... 


«.. 


... 


... 


Oi 


Sib. of potatoes ... ' 


.«• 


... 


... 


... 


.*• 


••• 


... 


• •• 


... 


H 

Olli 






Beef Ktdney 















1185. Is capable of being used in the same way as liver; but it 
requires long soaking in very weak vinegar and water after cutting It 
open, to deprive it of the strong flavour peculiar to the kidney oi 
the ox. 

The Melt, 

1186. Which is extensively used even in well-fiimished kitchens, is 
also by the poor sometimes made available as follows : — It must be 
prepared by soaking it for three hours in salt and water, with the 
addition of a spoonful or two of vinegar, then let it be dried with a 
cloth, and made into a thick mass by tying together alternate layers 
of it and thin slices of bacon, with a seasoning of sage and onionfl^ 
parsley, and a little of either thyme or marjoram, according to fancy*. 
Put on the top a lump of dripping or lard, and bake, or put in a 
Dutch oven in front of the fire, dredging it well in either case. The 
price of a melt varies from 2d. to 6d. 

1187. When Pig's, Calf's, ob Sheep's Liver or Eidket can be 
obtained at a low price, they are superior to the above in flavotix \ \^^^^ 
they aro seldom to he bought for less thaa ^\iXA& ^x xx^^^'^s^'^S^^'^ 



SOS ENOUBH CX)OKKRT. 



Pio's Blood 

1188. It g^nerallj to be had for nothing, when it is ohtahiable at 
all, or at all erenta the price is very low. Cottagers who kill tbdr 
own pigs would do well to exchange with their neighbonrs a portion 
of the blood, as it is generally more than thej can nse themaelyes, and 
black-pnddings maj readilj be made without the skins. The direc- 
tions giyen at page 112 are sufficient, and need not be repeated here. 
This is a yery cheap and nourishing dish, and, when made without the 
skins, it maj either be plain boiled or Med, with boiled potatoes and 
lard, or dripping. 

COW-HEBL, 

1189. As sold in the shops, is already boiled and deprired of a large 
proportion of its nourishment. It is not, in this condition, at all an 
economical dish, as one of them has not more than half a pound of 
gelatinous matter upon it, and thej are sold at from fonrpence to six- 
pence a-piece. If, howeyer, a raw cow-heel can be got at that price, 
it is cheap enough, as there is a large amount of nutritions matter in 
it which it loses in the preparation at the tripe-shop. It only wants 
four or five hours' slow simmering, and in that time it will give cat a 
quantity of excellent soup, besides the same amount of solid matter 
that it contains when bought ready prepared. The hoofs merely 
require putting into boiling water for a few minutes to get them off, 
together with the hair remaining on the skin attached to them, after 
which the feet are ready for boiling. 

Sheep's TROTTEns. 

1190. These in the country compose a most nourishing and cheap 
dish, but in London they are so highly yalned that they are not to be 
bought at n correspondingly low price. In the latter city, besides, 
they are not to be obtained in their raw state, but always boiled and 
depriyed of half their value, while at the same time the cost is 
doubled. Nevertheless they are eagerly sought for at the tripe-shops 
in tlie poor neighbourhoods, the price being from a farthing to three- 
farthings a-piece. On the other hand, in the country, they are nc 
glected, and are generally to be bought of the tanners who collect the 
skins at the rate of eight or ten fox apenny^ and often as many as a dozec 

may be had for that sum. K IroUet, «l^\.^t Oi^raivcv^^ ^'-^ ^^Tk&\^ 
average two ounces ; so that lieie w<i\ia.Nfe more thoa a pouud o| tv>»ta%\Ka>»>k 



HEAT SOUP WITH PSAS. 30$ 

matter and bone for one penny ^ the bone not weighing any thing like half 
of the whole, and being also full of gelatine. They are prepared by 
first scalding them in boiling water ; and, if this is scarce, it is better to 
put them into a saucepan with the water previously made boiling, and 
simmer them for ten minutes, as, unless the proportion of water to 
trotters is great, the temperature is lowered too much to have the 
proper effect of loosening the hoofs and hair. It is, however, easy to 
try one, and, if the hoof and hair do not come off, put them on the fire 
and boil till they do. When this is found to be the case, it is only 
necessary to remove them with a knife, taking one at a time and 
scraping it ; then, after washing it clean in cold water, the whole are 
to be simmered till they fall to pieces, when the bones are taken out, 
and pepper and salt added, with any onions, parsley, or other garden- 
stuff which may be readily available. With this, as a foundation, a 
most savoury and nourishing mess may be made. Boiled rice or 
potatoes may be added to them in the pot, or eaten separately. The 
cost, for a large family, of a substantial meal made in this way is as 

follows : — 

8. d. 

w iFOucrSi.. ... ... ... ... ■«• ••• *.* ... o 

6 lb. potatoes, or li U>. rice... .^ .^ •„ m. ••• 4i 

Oniont, parsley, Ac • 1 

Pepper, salt, Ac ». ,.•• ..• m ••• 0^ 



8| 



1191. Meat Soup with Peas: — 



Halfanoxcheek, orasbeep'sbead 6 

81b. of potatoes... ... ... .^ ••• 9 

I pint of split peas ... ... .;. ..• ... ... ••• • 8 

8 onions, 2 turnips, and a stick of celery • ... o 1 

Salt and pepper... ... ... ... ... .•• «•• ,.. o 0^ 

Watei; 7 qoarta , 

1 Ok 
This will produce about five or six quarts of good soup by the follow- 
ing method of proceeding : — Wash the cheek or head, peel the potatoes 
very thin, and boil all together for six hours ; then take out the cheek 
or head, strip off the meat and put by, and return the bones, which 
are to be gently stewed for another six hours in a Papin's digester, if 
at hand, or if not, in the saucepan,^ with a part of the liquor. The 
fire required is not more than the small one always necessary for 
warming a cottage. When the bones are stewed for this second period, 
they may be taken out, and the liquor from tb&Txv sAi^^^'^ \a 'Cw^^x^.- 
vionsfy boiled vegetables and meat, aft^r \«\iici\i ^>i'b^\is\';i^A"««xi«^'^^ 
up and served^ 



S\0 XVOLTSH OOOKE3XT» 



1192. Mkat Sour with Rigx, Ac 

I. i 

l|It.oreouwgrsT7bccf .^ •« .i. .^ m* MM«.Oi) 
^IbuOfrfeo ... m.*^*** — ^^ .^ M«.MM«-01i 
ilbk of Scotch baii^ ... »• .^ .- •- .m .m ». .. t 4 
An onion and imionlm — ••• .^ .^ •*. ^••.••.•^I 
• qtwrtaorwatw — 

• f 

This will, at the aboye cost, prodace about nine or ten pbts of good 

broth, but not equal to the fonner soap in quality 

119S. Fbjl*souf witho<ijtM»at:— 

ft & 
Half a plat of peas ... .m .— m. m« ••• m« .m m. 4 

A carrot and turnip, a bead oTceleiy, and two ontona ^ ...*.» l) 

IMpplns ... ... .M .M •.• .•• .■• •«« ,«, ^^^ M. 1 

Pepper and salt .^.^.^.^.m ... •«« •••^•...••1 
Water, three qoarta — 

t 4 
This produces about two quarts of yerj palatable soup, when DtB' 
aged by boiling the peas in the water for three hours, and ikt 
adding the vegetables, preyiouslj cut up and fried in the drippiig; 
after which the whole is to be boiled slowly an hour and a half, and 
seasoned with pepper and salt towards the last. 

1194. B ABLET Broth without Meat :— 

Haifa pint of Scotch barlej .^ •- ... •#• 

Ditto of oatmeal .m ... ••• .. 

Twooancesofdrippinnr... ... ,„ »• ... 

Vegetables, as for (1176) 

Beaaooing ••. •«• ... ••• ... *.. ... 

Watw, flTe qoarts 

« 
Making about three qaarts and a half of broth, costing about as much 
per quart as the pea-soup. 

Baked Ricb FuDDnre. 

1195. Put half a pound of rice into three pints of skim milk, 
sweeten with three ounces of sugar, add an ounce of good beef or 
mutton dripping, and a laurel leaf. Nutmeg, lemon-peel, or allspice 
is an improvement when at hand. This, when baked, will prodnce 
about four pounds of good solid pudding, at a cost of— rice l^d., sugar 
Id., milk 3d., dripping Jd., total 6d. 

Sprats ob Hkruxkoa ^]botK FresK and, Owr«^^>^ 











ft d 


••• 


... 


••• 


■.. 


IJ 


..• 


... 


... 


... 


IJ 


..« 


... 


..• 


... 


1 


... 


... 


... 


... 


n 


..• 


•.• 


..• 


... 


Oi 



K 



J 196. When fried in dripi^mg ox \ax^ ^\?q. -^x.^x.^^a wiA. ts<a«Ra^ 



INDIAN MUS13. 311 



make a veiy cheap and nourishing dish — that is to say, they can be 
obtained at a low price. 

BiCB AND Apple Dumplings. 

1197. Boil half a pound of rice, tied up loosely in a cloth, until the 
grains will stick together ; then surround some apples previously pared 
with a layer of this ; tie up in a cloth and boil for half an hour. 
When, as is often the case, apples can be had for little or nothing, this 
dish costs only the price of the rice and a little sugar or treacle to be 
eaten with it. 

Oatmeal Fobridge. 

1198. This, as made in Scotland, is a very useful dish, and is there 
the chief food of the labouring classes. The receipt for its concoction 
is given at page 292, and the cost is merely that of the meal and the milk 
eaten with it. A quarter of a pound of oatmeal, costing about three 
farthings, will make more than a quart of porridge, the quantity of 
meal required varying with its quality. With this food a good break- 
fast or supper may be made for one penny. 

Rice Porridge. 

1199. Eice porridge described at page 292, is also another very 
economical dish, which may be useful to the poor. 

KoLOANNON {an Irish dish), 

1200. Boil separately equal quantities of potatoes and cabbages; 
when the former are fit to peel, take off their jackets, and mix the 
two together in a saucepan after pouring ofi^ the cabbage liquor, then 
beat them up together, and add an ounce of lard or dripping to each 
pound of potatoes. Season with pepper and salt, and most people 
add to the cabbages an onion or two. 

Indian Mush. 

1201. Have ready on a clear fire a large saucepan of boiling water; 
take in one hand the mush- stick (a strong round stick, nearly half a 
yard long, and flattened at the lower end), and with the other hand 
throw in grcuhtaUy sufficient Indian-meal to make a very stiff porridge, 
stirring it all the time with the stick ; add a very little salt. After the. 
mush is sufficiently thick and smooth, boil it one hour more^ stven?&5|^ 
it frequent!/ trom the bottom to prevent \Xs \i\3L-n\vcv%% ^<^^ ^^-^^t '^^ 

pot closely f and let it simmer for an ^oiix. Its \|;oo^xifts» \«^««>.^"o^ 



310 XVOU8H OOOKE3Xr» 



1192. Meat Sour with Riob, Ac 

I. 4 

l|m.oreouwgrsT7be«f ^ ^ .^ ^ MAM^t^Oi) 

^ Ibl. of lice ••• »M aM M« M« CM ••• ••• M* M* M 1) 

ilbk of Scotch iMricy ,- ••• ,— .— .«• .m .m .^ «. t 4 
An onkm and imionlm — ^^ .^ .^ •*. ,^ ^ m, 9 % 
• <|iwrta of water — 

t f 

This will, at the aboye cost, prodnce abont nine or tea pnts of 

broth, but not equal to the fonner soap in quality 

119S. PBA*S0UF WITHOUT M«at:— 

ft & 
Half a pint of peas «. .m •« ••• ••« .«« m« »• «. 4 
Acarrotandtarnip,abeadofoelei7, andtwoooiona ^ ...* .„ 1} 

DllppinS •«• ••• »M ••• ••• ••• ••• ••« ««« aaa MS S 1 

Pepper and aalt .m ••• ^m m* <m* ••* •«« ,^ .^ ». 1} 

Water, three qoarta 

t 4 
This produces about two quarts of yerj palatable soup, when oiiB- 
aged by boiling the peas in the water for three hours, and then 
adding the yegetables, preyiously cut up and fried in the drippi>g; 
after which the whole is to be boiled slowly an hour and a half, uxi 
seasoned with pepper and salt towards the last. 

1194. B ABLET Broth without Meat :-^ 

ft d 

Haifa pint of Scotch baiiej .^ •• .m ..• .^ •«. 1) 

Ditto of oatmeal ... ... ... ... ... .• «.• .., ... ,^ I| 

Twooancesofdripplnflr. „• ... .^ ... ... ... 1 

Vegetables, as for (UTS) ^ ^. o 1} 

DeasoDinsr ... •«• ... ••• ... ... ... .*• ... ^^, ^„ O) 

Watw, flTe qoarta 

« 

Making about three quarts and a half of broth, costing abont as much 

per quart as the pea-soup. 

Baked Rice FunniNe. 

1195. Put half a pound of rice into three pints of skim milk, 
sweeten with three ounces of sugar, add an ounce of good beef or 
mutton dripping, and a laurel leaf. Nutmeg, lemon-peel, or allspice 
is an improvement when at hand. This, when baked, will prodnfe 
about four pounds of good solid pudding, at a cost of— rice 1 ^d., sugtr 
Id., milk 3d., dripping jd., total 6d. 

Spbats OB Hkkbxsoa ^iK FreaK ocnd OuTed^ 

il9&. When fried in dripi^mg ox \ax^ ^\?q. ^^i\.«.\.c»'aft «iiA. vn«» 



INDIAN MUS13. 311 



make a very cheap and nourishing dish — that is to say, they can be 
obtained at a low price. 

BiCB AND Apple Dumplings. 

1197. Boil half a pound of rice, tied up loosely in a cloth, until the 
grains will stick together ; then surround some apples previously pared 
with a layer of this ; tie up in a cloth and boil for half an hour. 
When, as is often the case, apples can be had for little or nothing, this 
dish costs ouly the price of the rice and a little sugar or treacle to be 
eaten with it. 

Oatmeal Fobridge. 

1198. This, as made in Scotland, is a very useful dish, and is there 
the chief food of the labouring classes. The receipt for its concoction 
is given at page 292, and the cost is merely that of the meal and the milk 
eaten with it. A quarter of a pound of oatmeal, costing about three 
farthings, will make more than a quart of porridge, the quantity of 
meal required varying witli its quality. With this food a good break- 
fast or supper may be made for one penny. 

Bice Porridge. 

1199. Eice porridge described at page 292, is also another very 
economical dish, which may be useful to the poor. 

KoLCANNON (^an Irish dish), 

1200. Boil separately equal quantities of potatoes and cabbages; 
when the former are fit to peel, take off their jackets, and mix the 
two together in a saucepan after pouring off the cabbage liquor, then 
beat them up together, and add an ounce of lard or dripping to each 
pound of potatoes. Season with pepper and salt, and most people 
add to the cabbages an onion or two. 

Indian Mush. 

1201. Have ready on a clear fire a large saucepan of boiling water; 
take in one hand the mush- stick (a strong round stick, nearly half a 
yard long, and flattened at the lower end), and with the other hand 
throw in gradual!^ sufficient Indian-meal to make a very stiff porridge, 
stirring it all the time with the stick ; add a very little salt. After the. 
mush is sufficiently thick and smooth, boil it one hour more^ stltcvxvsi^ 
it frequent!/ from the bottom to prevent \Xs \i\3L"mvcv%% ^«^ ^^^^c^^ 

pot doself, and let it simmer for an ^oiix. Its \i;oo^<m» ^^k^^^Aa^^^ 



810 XNOLTSH OOOKEBT» 



1192. Meat Sour with Bice, ftc 

llttkorooanegrmTybeef -«*m.-«m«««*^.m,m*<} 
^ Ibk of rtco ■•• M* ••• ••• ■•• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• M* 1} 

^ lb. of Scotch bftilej - ... ,— .m .m •« • 11 

An onUm and •eaaontag •^•^•.••^•^•^•^^§11 
• <|iwrtaofwaMr — 

t 

This will, at the above cost, produce about nine or ten phitB of good 
broth, but not equal to the former soup in quality 

1199. Psa-^boupwithohttMsat:— 

a d 
Half a pint ofpeas ... .^ m. ... m« m. m« .m^ •« 11 

A carrot and tnrnlp, a bead of criexy, and two cniioot ^ ..«* ... o 1} 

DttpjAng ... ... ••• .M *— —• ..• ••« *•• •»■ mmm 1 

FvppttT and salt ..« ..• ••• ••• #•• .■« ••• ••« ••• m. 6§ 

Water, thr«e qoarta 

t 4 
This produces about two quarts of Terj palatable soup, when mao- 

aged by boiling the peas in the water for three hoom, and then 

adding the yegetables, preyiouslj cut up and fried in the dripinog; 

afler which the whole is to be boiled slowly an hoar and a half, and 

seasoned with pepper and salt towards the last. 



94. J5ABLET i5ROTH W 


ITH< 


>UT J 


VLEX1 


r:— 










L d 


Haifa pint of ScoUAk barlej 


..« 


•.• 


.«• 


••• 


••• 


.•• 


■•• 


••• 


1* 


Ditto of oatmeal 


... 


... 


... 


.• 


.*• 


... 


.*• 


.•. 


1» 


Two ounces of dripplnsr... 


..• 


... 


.•• 


... 


•#• 


... 


■•• 


•a. 


1 


Yegetables, as for (Urs) 


.•• 


... 


... 


... 


... 


... 


..« 


••* 


n 


Seasoning ... ... ... 


.•• 


... 


... 


... 


... 


..« 


•#• 


•«. 


Oi 


Watw, fire qoarts 





















6 

Making about three quarts and a half of broth, costing about as much 
per quart as the pea-soup. 

Baked Rice Tm>j>mo, 

1195. Put half a pound of rice into three pints of skim millc, 
sweeten with three ounces of sugar, add an ounce of good beef or 
mutton dripping, and a laurel leaf. Nutmeg, lemon-peel, or allspice 
is an improvement when at hand. This, when baked, will produce 
about four pounds of good solid pudding, at a cost of— rice l^d., sugar ' 
Id., milk 3d., dripping jd., total 6d. { 

SfbATS OB HvKBXSOft Q>otK EresK cm& 0>Kr«la^y^ i 

J 196. When fified in drip^in^ ^$t \m^ Vv^^\a.x.^«3k vsu^ ta&isia,^ 



IKDIAK MUSH. 311 



make a very cheap and noarishing dish — that is to say, they can be 
obtained at a low price. 

BiCB AKo Apple Dumplings. 

1197. Boil half a pound of rice, tied np loosely in a cloth, nntil the 
grains will stick together ; then surround some apples previously pared 
with a layer of this ; tie up in a cloth and boil for half an hour. 
When, as is often the case, apples can be had for little or nothing, this 
dish costs only the price of the rice and a little sugar or treacle to be 
eaten with it. 

Oatmeal Fobridgb. 

1198. This, as made in Scotland, is a very useful dish, and is there 
the chief food of the labouring classes. The receipt for its concoction 
is given at page 292, and the cost is merely that of the meal and the milk 
eaten with it. A quarter of a pound of oatmeal, costing about three 
farthings, will make more than a quart of porridge, the quantity of 
meal required varying witli its quality. With this food a good break- 
fast or supper may be made for one penny. 

EiCB Porridge. 

1199. Eice porridge described at page 292, is also another very 
economical dish, which may be useful to the poor. 

KoLCANNON {an Irish dish), 

1200. Boil separately equal quantities of potatoes and cabbages; 
when the former are fit to peel, take off their jackets, and mix the 
two together in a saucepan after pouring off the cabbage liquor, then 
beat them up together, and add an ounce of lard or dripping to each 
pound of potatoes. Season with pepper and salt, and most people 
add to the cabbages an onion or two. 

Indian Mush. 

1201. Have ready on a clear fire a large saucepan of boiling water; 
take in one hand the mush- stick (a strong round stick, nearly half a 
yard long, and flattened at the lower end), and with the other hand 
throw mgrcuhtaUy sufficient Indian-meal to make a very stiff porridge, 
stirring it all the time with the stick ; add a very little salt. After tf>6 
mush is sufficiently thick and smooth, boil it one hour more, stirring 
it frequently firom the bottom to prevent \Xs \i\i-tmYv%\ ^"e^ ^«^«.'^oa 

pot cJoself, and let it simmer for an koxa. IXa ||;Q^\ift»& ^«^^^>a!^ 



312 EXGLIBH COOKEBT. 



it3 being thoroughly boiled, and snfficientlj Bmooth and thick ; if kept 
three or four hours orer the fire, first boiling and then simmering, it 
will be better. Send it to table hot in a deep diflh, and eat it with 
either milk, buttermilk, cream, butter, and sug^, or batter and treacle. 
Cold mush maj be cut in slices and fried. 

Indian Habtt Poddiho. 

1202. Place on the fire three quarts of boiling water, with a little 
salt; stir in by degrees three quarts of Indian-meal and a quarter of a 
pound of butter ; it should be stirred till quite thick. Serve it hot, 
tnd cat it with milk or cream, treacle or sugar. 

Plain Indian Breakfast-cake. 

1203. Mix over-night one quart of yellow sifted Indian meal, one 
handful of wheat-flour, and one spoonful of salt ; pour on gradually 
one quart of warm water, and stir it so as to form a soft dough ; cover 
the pan closely, and set it by till morning, when dissolve in one pint 
of warm milk and water a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and with 
this mixture reduce the dough into a batter, stirring it very hard; 
cover, and place it before the lire for a quarter of an hour ; have ready 
over the fire a frying-pan or griddle ; grease it well with lard or fresh 
butter, and bake the cakes in the shape of small crumpets. "When 
brown on one side, turn them with a knife. These cakes may be 
eaten with dripping, butter, or treacle. 

Indian-meal Gruel 

1204. Sift some Indian-meal, then mix in a quart basin two spoon- 
fuls of the meal with three of cold water ; stir it till quite smooth ; 
then pour in gradually a pint of boiling water, stirring it wfell, and add 
a pinch of salt ; next put it on the fire, and let it boil half an hour, 
still stirring it to prevent its burning, and skimming it. It should be 
eaten warm, and sweetened with sugar, or a little nutmeg and white 
wine if approved. This is excellent for invalids. 

HOMINT 

1205. Is Indian-corn shelled from the cob, and divested of the 
fellow skin, so as to be perfectly white, and then dried. Having 
washed it well through two or three waters, put it in a pan, pour over 

builing water, and cover \t\ \et it aoaV ^ot %«s^\«XVw»^. ^Twa&.\v 
tboi) put it in a clean sauccraii, aWoViu^^x^o <\vx»5Xa ^i ^%.\«i Vs*3^^. 



INDIAN DUMPLING& 818 



hot) to every quart of hominy, and boil for five or six hours, stirring 
it frequently. Drain it dry though a sieve or colander, and put it in 
a deep dish ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt ; serve it hot to eat 
with any sort of meat, particularly with beef, pork, or bacon. If pro- 
perly prepared, it is very wholesome and strengthening. What is left 
may be re-boiled next day for one hour, or it may be made into flat 
cakes, adding a little wheat-flour, and fried in lard or butter. 

Indian DciirLiNGS. 

1206. Mix three pints of Indian-meal with half a pound of finely- 
chopped suet, dredged with wheat-flour ; add one small tea-spoonful 
of salt ; put in gradually sufficient milk to make it into a stifle dough, 
and knead it ; divide the dough into equal portions, and then, having 
floured the hands, m^ke each portion into a ball the size of a small 
orange; flatten them with a rolling-pin, and beat on both sides to 
make light and flaky. Tie them up loosely in small cloths previously 
soaked in hot water and floured, put them in boiling water, and boil 
for two hours. When done, dip each dumpling in cold water before 
the cloth is untied. Send them to table hot. They may be eaten 
with boiled fresh or salt meat, or as sweet dumplings, with treacle, or 
butter and sugar. 

1207. With the above dishes a poor man's wife may manage to 
make a few shillings go a great way, varying them with dried fish 
and potatoes, or the same fried. In the above calculations, it has 
been assumed thaj: there is a family of four to six children ; but when 
this is the case, two or three will always be able to earn a little, in 
order to help the wages of the father. Altogether it may be assumed 
that the whole family will earn about 15s. per week, and that the rent 
and clothing are paid by the garden and pig, which ought to be the 
case with good managers ; there will then remain, after allowing 3s. 
for coals, wood, schooling, and emergencies, 12s. per week to be spent 
in food. Of this, Is. 2d. may be allowed for beer, which will give 
nearly three gallons per week if brewed at home, and 10s. lOd. for 
food. The breakfasts and suppers may be made at about Id. per 
head, or 6d. per day, which per week will be 3s. 6d., leaving 7s. 4d. for 
the dii^ers, which, as I have shown, may be furnished in the most 
ample manner for that money, as follows : — Sunday, with bread, Is. ; 
Monday, soup (1191), four quarts, 8d., and bread, 4d» '^ TuAsdvj^^x^x- 
ters, prepared (1190), Sjd.; Wednesday, Wcoiv ifv^^, \'^.^^^"^'^^'^'^'' 
3 lb., Is. Oid. ; Thursday, soup, witli ncft 0-^^'^.^, ^^«, \j.^55»Su '^^ 



SI 4 XyOLTBH OOOKERT. 



Friday, same as Snndaj, Is. ; Satnrdaj, rice padding, 6d^ and black* 
puddings, or some other dish with bread. The outlay altogether being 
below the allotted sam. 

1208. It has thus beeh showv that the family of a labooring man 
may be kept in a good and wholesome way, upon yiands which are 
appetizing enough to those who use strong exercise, for a sum which 
will barely suffice to purchase bread and potatoes. Thus, supposing 
the family to consist of seyen in number, they would eat at least sixty 
pounds of bread, and as much of potatoes, costing 13s. ; and if cheese 
or bacon is added, at least 7s. more. In point of economy, the bread 
diet 60 much practised by the poor is a rery extraragant one ; and in 
point of nutrition, potatoes when used alone, as by the veiy poor, arc 
of Tcry inferior yalue, and not adapted for the hard-working man. 
But with the above diet, costing no more money, he may be kept in 
full health. 



CHAP. XXIT.— INVALID COOKERT. 
1209. In Cookinq Food, &c., fob thb Invalid, great art is required, 
because the palate is morbidly acute, or disinclined to strong flavonra 
of any kind. Thus it often happens that seasoning which is relished 
in a state of health is loathed under disease ; and the cook who is not 
aware of this fact will be almost sure to displease her employers. 
Hence it is that the nurse who understands the kind of cookery which 
is fitted for the sick will generally succeed better than the most 
finished cook, because she knows by experience that all rich flay ours 
are sure to turn the stomachs of her charge. Chicken is for this 
reason so generally liked by the sick, because its flavour is mild • while 
the dark and high-flavoured meat of game or ducks would be turned 
out of the room as soon as submitted to the nose, without even having 
the honour of a taste. Fat should be most carefully avoided in all 
animal broths, such as mutton-broth or beaf-tea ; onions, garlic, and 
other herbs, except perhaps parsley, are also objectionable in the 
sick-room ; and even the faintest flavour of the first in bread sauce will 
seldom be tolerated. Pepper may be used to some extent when not 
forbidden, and also salt, but beyond these seasonings it is seldom safe 
to venture far. Cloves and cinnamon, as well as nutmeg, are liked by 
Bome and disliked by others, as also are the flavours of caraways and 
All-spice. Lemon-peel gives a cVeaxv ^©nqxit, «a \<i^% ^^wKv^^^-^^feSiX,^ and 
loajr genetally be used for tine pxiii^os^ oi ®:siVa% ^ ^\^n. v^ay^ n^ 



SOUP FOB INVALIDS. 315 



Sweets, or paddings ; but even of these a smaller qnantity than usual 
will saffice. With regard to adding wine in making jellies, it must 
always be ascertained whether it is forbidden ; for in many cases jelly 
without wine would be advantageous, while the addition would be 
altogether wrong. The following list of receipts comprises those which 
are peculiarly applicable to the invalid ; those which are also employed 
in ordinary cookery being to be found in the chapters devoted to that 
subject 

Beef-tea. 

1210. Take one pound of lean beef, pick all the fat off; cut it into 
small pieces the size of the end of the thumb, and score it still further 
to let out the gravy ; put it in an enamelled saucepan with a quart of 
water, two cloves, eight to twelve peppercorns, and half a tea-spoonful 
of salt. Simmer for three or four hours, and skim it as Jong as either 
scum or fat rises, or else it curdles. In cases of extreme debility, one 
pound and a half of beef may be used. Before serving, absorb every 
globule of fat with silver paper. 

Another Mode (very grateful in convalescence, when there is no 
tendency to diarrhoea). Put in a preserving jar alternate layers of 
beef, cut into small pieces, and sliced turnips ; when the jar is filled, 
place it in a water-bath, or slow oven, and let it remain for two or 
three hours ; then drain off all the tea, using a little pressure to assist 
the operation, and let it stand till cold, when any fat may be taken off, 
or, if wanted directly, it may be removed while hot with silver paper. 

Another (quickly made). — Take a piece of skirtings of beef, of the 
size of a walnut, scrape it well, then pour a tea-cup of boiling water 
upon it, and it is fit to drink when cool. 

To Make Knuckle Bboth. 

1211. Take ten or twelve knuckles from legs or shoulders of mutton, 
put them into water for two or three hours. Rub them with a little 
salt, and wash them welL Boil in four quarts of water two hours. 
Skim it clear, and add two ounces of hartshorn shavings, and the under 
crust of a penny loaf. Boil again till reduced to three pints ; strain. 
When cold, remove the fat. Take half a pint as hot as you can drink 
it before you rise in the morning, the same quantity in bed at night. 
Make it fresh twice a week in winter, and three times in summen 

Soup for Intalid^. 
J21Z Take six poonds of sbixx of \i^, «x. y^^ksi^'^ ^"^ «aK^ ^* ' 



316 SNOLISH COOKEBT. 



meat, seasoned, and an onion, if liked ; put it in a ttone jar, and tie 
down with bladder ; let it boil twelye hours in a large saucepan of 
water, then strain it off. A tea or table spoonful is enough for an 
invalid, if taken several times during the day. (It is well to know, 
that what remains after the soup has been strained, makes excellent 
common stock with additional water.) 

Strong Meat Jbllt for Wbak Psbsons. 

1213. Take about two pounds of lean beef, cut in pieces, with a 
hock of ham of the same weight, and a knuckle of veal of eight or ten 
pounds, a small quantity of salt and mace, without any other spice ; 
cover it with water and stew seven hours. Strain, and when cold take 
off the fat ; clear it with whites of eggs, and pass it through a jelly-bag. 
The produce of jelly from the above proportions should be about five 
quarts ; to be taken warm or cold, as best stdts the patient. 

Tba-kettlb Broth. 

1214. Cut some small squares of crumb of bread into a broth basin, 
and some finely chopped parsley, with enongh of salt to flarour it ; 
pour over it some boiling water, softening the whole with a spoonful 
or two of cream or milk. Some invalids like the flavour of mint, and 
peas when in season ; and, if this can be allowed by the medical man, 
the water used must have a few young peas, or pea-pods, and a leaf of 
mint boiled in it, before pouring it over the bread; without this addi- 
tion, it is often much liked by invalids, as being so free from grease, 
and so clean-tasting. A little clear gravy from under the dripping- 
pan may sometimes be added with advantage. Pepper may be used 
or omitted, according to the palate or the nature of the illness. 

Gravy-bread for Invalids. 

1215. Cut deeply into a joint of beef, or leg of mutton, while roast- 
ing ; fill the opening with a thick slice of crumb of bread, and leave 
it there for half an hour, or till completely saturated with the gravy; 
then sprinkle upon it a little salt, with or without pepper, as is recom- 
mended, and serve hot. 

Toast Sandwiches for Invalids. 

1216. Toast carefully a very thin slice of bread ; cut off the crust; 
spread two slices of thin "bteaA. a.Tv^ >tt\3L\.\.ct, %\&q <sAxtt\.w^ away the 

crust, seasoning each with a very \\\X\fe m«A^ m\«x«ct?L vccA. ^^^xvsJsifii 
of salt ; lay the toast in the middle, b^xVyu^e^Vx. «v& «. ^mA^v^V. 



STBENOTHBNINO JELLY FOR DTVALTOS. 8 1 T 

Jellt OS Blancmange fos Invalids. 

1217. Take the bones of a knuckle of veal, well scrape a// the 
meat from them, and stew them fonr or five hoars in two qnarts of 
water ; after it is cold, skim it clear from all fat and sediment ; melt 
it, and flayonr with home-made wine and a little lemon-peel. If 
for blancmange, the stock must be still more reduced, to bear the 
addition of some milk, flayoored with laurel-leaf and lemon-peel : the 
addition of a little wine or brandy will of coarse improve it. 

Cow-heel baked in Milk. 

121 8. Clean well a cow-heel, and put it with two quarts of milk into 
an earthen jar ; let it stand in a slow oven for five or six hours. The 
heel may be taken out, and served with a little parsley and butter, or 
eaten with mustard and vinegar ; and the milk, which resembles blanc- 
mange, skimmed when cold, then melted and flavoured, as in the 
aboye receipt. 

Soothing Nottbishmbnt in Consuiiption. 

1219. Beat up a table-spoonful of oatmeal, and a table-spoonful of 
honey, with the yolk of an egg ; pour upon it a pint of boiling water ; 
then boil altogether for a few minutes. 

To Bender Milk digestible in Illness, 

1220. Four a bottle of soda-water on half a pint of boiling milk, and 
re-bottle it. 

Mild Chocolate for Invalids. 

1221. Take one square of chocolate (the sixth part of a cake), shave 
it, and boil a pint of water five minutes ; then add a pint of skimmed 
milk ; boil them together a little while ; then add a tea-spoonful of 
arrowroot wetted with cold water, and boil it very slowly for five 
minutes longer. 

A Strengthening Jellt for Invalids. 

1222. One ounce of isinglass, half an ounce of gum arabic, a pint of 
port-wine ; sweeten with sugar-candy or loaf-sugar, and then flavour 
with cinnamon, or a little nutmeg and lemon-peel. The cinnamon 
may be boiled in a quarter of a pint of water for an hour \ str&m-^wsA. 
add the isinglass with another quarter of a "i^mX. o^ ^«L\.et \ ^Xx^w"^^'^^ 
(t is disBolvedf and add the other ingre^Wita. T«5tft «.>«Ya&-^^^^'^'^ 



818 EKOUBH OOOKKBT, 



the first thing in the morning and the last at night, melted ; or eat it 
cold, taking a piece the size of a nutmeg occasionally. 

Another, — ^Take three ounces of isinglass, two oonces of candied 
cringe root, and one ounce each of oonserre of roses, pearl-barlej, and 
rice. Pat them in two qoarts of water, and simmer about ftre honis 
till redaced to less than a pint. Fat a spoonful of it into tea or any 
other liquid food, or take it alone. 

Mutton Custabd tob Bowbl Complaints ob CoNSuxpnYB 

Cabes. 

1223. Take two ounces of fresh mutton snet shred fine, and half a 
drachm of cinnamon, or some grated nutmeg, and boil in rather more 
than a pint of milk: when boiled, to be set hj the fire till the scum 
rises, which should then be carefully taken off. Half a tea-cupful may 
be given, warm or cold, as the patient prefers, three or four times » 
day. It should be continued till the complaint is quite cured. 

Fbesh Fbuit Jbllt. 

1224. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, then 
add a pint and a half of fruit juice of any kind, and from half to 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, according to the taste. Boil for 
a few seconds, and use when cold. There is no necessity for a jellj- 
bag in this case. 

A Light Invalid's Pdddino. 

1225. Take a slice of bread an inch or two in thickness (with or 
without the crust), wrap it in a cloth, and boil it gently for a quarter 
of nn hour ; when brought on table, sugar and white wine may be 
added according to fancy. 

To Stew Tapiooa. 

1226. To make a breakfast-cupful, take a small teacup of tapioca, 
soak it for ten minutes in cold water, let it simmer very gently aboat an 
hour (adding a little more water if it become too thick), then add 
milk enough to make it a proper thickness, and warm it altogether, 
stirring it all the time : flavour with sugar, nutmeg, lemon, or wine sa 
may be approved. 

Bablbi> Tf LOTrai (lufoal*? food^, 
1227, Put a basin of ^oux V\x\i a v'^-'B^^ ^^'^ ^"'^^ "^^ "o^a -^^ 



TO HULL POBTr 319 



oven with the bread ; bake it till the bread is drawn, and use it as yoa 
would biscuit powder. It is strengthening and good for weak bowels. 

Beer Caitdlb. 

1228. Make your gruel with pretty good beer instead of water, and 
flavour with ginger and allspice, and sweeten with moist sugar; a 
quarter of an ounce of ginger, and a tea-spoonful of all-spice, to two 
quarts. 

Wine Caudle. 

1229. Make two or three pints of oatmeal gruel, and flavour with 
half a pint of either port or sherry wine, add a clove or two, and, if 
desired, the yolks well beaten of two or three eggs. Sweeten with 
white or brown sugar. 

CuBSANT Gsuel {rather Aperient), 

1230. To a quart of half-made water gruel, put in two ounces of 
Zante currants well washed ; add sugar, but no spice, and finish boil- 
ing. To this simple water gruel, the addition of a spoonful of cream 
is a great improvement. The gruel may be made of water in which 
the currants have been boiled, if the currants are not approved. 

Bbakdt Gruel. 

1231. Boil the rind of half a lemon thinly pared, and four large 
lumps of sugar in a quarter of a pint of fresh milk; then mix one aes- 
sert spoonful of fine oatmeal and a salt spoonful of salt in four table 
spoonfuls of cold milk till quite smooth, and pour it into the boiling 
milk. Stir without ceasing, and allow it to boil for full five minutes. 
Put it into a basin, and add to it a piece of butter about the size of a 
common nut, and one wine-glass and a half of brandy. 

A Refreshing Feybr Drink. 

1232. Four boiling water on some black currant jam, sweeten with 
coarse moist sugar, and add a little raspberry vinegar if approved. 
The poor are very fond of this. 

To Mull Fort. 

1233. Fut half a pint of water into a clean saucepan, with three 
ounces of sugar and a little nutmeg and c\oN«&\\i^^ «^ \A^g^^^sc\^x. 

a few minutea; then add from six to twc^^^ f^sdwi^ ^1 tv^ Y^^^^^^^^^^ 



920 nausH coobjbbt. 



do not allow it to do more than boil for a momeBt, and pour oat in t 
jag ready for nie. 

To Mull Claxit. ^ 

1234. Boil gently the tngar and fpice in jnst enongh wine for the 
purpose ; then add the remainder, and boil as aboye for a second or 
two. 

To Makb Whitb Wnra Whkt. 

1235. Boil a pint and a half of skimmed milk, and two glasses of 
rnisin or sherry wine, fifteen grains of purified nitre, and lemon-jaice 
enough to tarn the milk; boil it ap, and then set it aside until the 
curd subsides ; strain it, and add enough sugar to make it pleasant; 
OTIC half to be taken on getting into bed, the other ten minutes after- 
wards. 

EgobdWinb. 

1236. For each half-pint of egged wine intended to be made, take 
two eggs, beat them up thoroughly in a small basin with an ounce 
and a half of wliite sagar (fine moist will do), and a little powd^^d 
nutmeg and cloves. While doing this, heat half a pint of sherry and 
Avater in equal quantities, or stronger of the sherry, if desired, and 
when boiling hot stir it into the eggs ; after which pour the whole 
backwards and forwards, from the saucepan into the basin, and vice 
versa, until it thickens. If this, from the coldness of the atmosphere, 
docs not take place, it must be put on the fire again, and constantly 
stirred till it does, which never fails in a few minutes. 

Ego Flip. 

1237. This is made in the same way as egged wine (par. 1236), snh- 
stitiiting good ale for the sherry and water, and occasionally adding 
a little brandy, if the ale is not strong enough. 

Rice Water 

1238. Is used in diarrhoea as the only drink which will not increase 
the mischief. It is made by boiling a spoonful of washed Carolina 
rice in a pint of water for two or three hours, reducing this with more 
water until it is thin enough to suit the palate. A little lemon-peel 

tnnjr he added towards the \ast to ^w^ ^fw-sowt-, ^\v$k. \\. ^«^wv\!l l»e 
sweetened to the taste. It ma.VL«ia a^cr^j ^\fe^wi\. 5^x^ ^>x\.xs«si> 



BHUBABB SHERBET. S2l 



liked by some people, and cloves or cinnamon hj others, as aa 
additional flavour. 

Lemonade. 

1239. Fare two tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, pnt half 
of the rind of one into a pint of hot, not boiling, water, and cover it 
over for three or foor hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to 
absorb the essence, and put it into a china bowl, into which squeeze 
the juice of the lemons, adding sugar enough to sweeten to the palate, 
and when cool it is flt to drink. 

Concentrated Lemonade. 

1240. Take one drachm of essence of lemon, one ounce and a half 
of citric acid, two and a half pounds of loaf sugar, and one pint of 
water. To make the syrup, put the sugar into the water when cold, 
and let it boil gradually, then pour it hot on the acids. To make the 
beverage, put a table-spoonful of the lemonade into a tumbler of water. 

Orangeade. 

1241. Squeeze the juice from a dozen of fhiit, pour boiling water 
on the peel of four, and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin 
syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, 
and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet ; 
strain through « jelly-bag, and cool. 

Cranberry Water. 

1242. Bruise a cupful of cranberries, mixed with a cupful of cold 
water. Boil two quarts of water with a table-spoonful of oatmeal 
and the rind of a lemon ; then stir in the cranbemes, and add two 
ounces of Lisbon sugar and a quarter of a pint of white wine ; simmer 
for a quarter of an hour ; then strain, and leave to cool. 

Easpberrt Vinegar and Water. 

1243. No draught is more agreeable to a feverish patient than a 
dessert-spoonful of raspberry vinegar mixed in a tumbler of cold 
water. It should never stand in any metal or glazed vessel, for the 
acid would act upon their surfaces to an injui'ious extent. 

Rhubarb Sherbet (a Refreshing Drink), 

1244. Boil six or eight sticks of clean tVv\jlWx>q Xatl \iATcvi\RSk Nk*. ^ 
qaan of water; strain the liquor into a ^u^ Va'^Vv^Na^^ V^*^^^ ^ 



322 ENGLISH CX>OKERT. 

lemon cat rerj thin, and two table-spoonfiils of clarified angar; let it 
stand five or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 

Afflb Water. 

1245. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boiling 
water on them, or on the same roasted ; strain two or throe hoard 
after, and sweeten lightly. 

iMrSRIAL. 

1246. Scald a jug, and put in it from a quarter to half an ounce o! 
cream of tartar ; then add a quart of boiling water, flavonr it with a 
little lemon-peel, or essence of lemon, and sweeten to the palate. 

GixoER Beer. 

1247. Put into a largo pan two pounds of loaf sugar, two ounces of 
bruised ginger, and two gallons of cold water. Boil the whole for 
lialf an hour, skimming it well; then pour out into a large earthen- 
ware jar, adding a lemon sliced, and half an ounce of cream of tartar. 
Let it cool to new milk heat, then add a tea-cupful of yeast, and 
allow it to ferment for two days ; strain it, and bottle in small stone 
bottles, with the corks firmly tied down. 

Currant Water. 

1248. Currant water is made by dissolving a small table-spoonful 
of currant jelly in a tumbler of water, and adding from ten to fifteen 
grains of tartaric acid. 

Black Currant Drink. 

1249. Scald out a glass, then put into it two or three spoonfuls of 
black currant jelly or preserve. Add a little boiling water, and stir op 
the jelly, then fill with more water, and drink as hot as possible. Use- 
ful for common coughs and hoarseness. 



I 



CHAP. XXV.— PLAN OP HOUSEKEEPING, AND BILLS OP PARE. 

Calculation of Annual Expenditure. 

1250. In order to maii&ge Oaci ^c\.\C\V^ o^ «w\vc>w&OsvcW \^ %;», ^-^ss^v 
jnlcal manner, it i», before aX\t\iiTv^s,u^t^s^«*rs ^v^x.^^\sv«a»Ji|jst^B38^ 



TABLE OP EXPENDITURE. 



123 



know what sum may be spent in each department, as well as the total 
expenditure which may safely and properly be incurred. When this 
is once settled, the next thing is to cut down the expenses of each 
department to the proper figure in proportion to the whole expendi- 
ture, and here there is room for considerable variation, according to 
the extent of the income, and the numbers of the family to be provided 
for. Generally speaking, about one-half of a moderate income must 
be set apart for the supplies of the house (and stables, if any), the 
other moiety to be devoted as follows : — one-eighth of the whole to 
rent and taxes — one- eighth to clothing— one-eighth to illness, parties, 
and other amusements— and the remaining eighth to wages and 
incidental expenses, including those charities over and above the 
superfluities of the household. This rule applies tolerably to those 
who spend £500 or £1000 a-year ; but with those who have only the 
smaller sums of £250 and £100, the proportion for wages, amuse- 
ments, and incidental expenses must be reduced, and the subtracted 
sums added to those for housekeeping. On this scale, therefore, 
according to the several sums already specified as treated of in this 
book, there will be the following division of income under the several 
heads attached. 

Table op Extexditcre. 



ANNUAL INCOUE. 



Honsckeening :— 
Batcher 8 meat and bacon 
Fish and poultry 

Bread 

Milk, butter, and cheeso 

' *i OCcrjT ••• ••• ••• 

Italian goods 

(Jreen-grocery 

X^UCi ••• ••• ••• 

Wine and spirits 

vOiHo ••• ••• ••• 

Chandlery 

Wasliing 

Carriage and horses ... 

B«nt and taxes 

Clothing 

Wages & incidental expenses 
Illness and amoseuieuts 



No. 1, 
£1000. 



£ 
75 
80 
20 
20 
80 
8 
20 
20 
60 
25 
13 
40 



8. 
















850 
150 
125 
125 
l:i5 
125 












No. 2, 
£50a 



£ 
40 
10 
16 
18 
20 

B 
12 
12 
15 
15 

7 
80 



8. 















No. 3, 
£250. 



£1000 



200 
50 
62 10 
62 10 
62 10 
62 10 



£«y» 



£ 
SO 

7 
14 
16 
18 

8 
10 
10 

8 
12 

7 
15 



\ 



s. 















Na4, 
£ioa 



£ 8. 

18 

io"~o 

8 
8 



150 

8l""5 
81 B 
18 15 
18 15 



I 



6 
5 
1 
5 
2 
2 












S.'iJEA ^ 



\ 



65 

18 10 

12 10 

5 

5 



$.>Sft ^^ 



324 ENGLISH COOKERT. 



This calculation is made on the supposition that in each ease there is a 
family of four children, together with the parents, and the serrants 
usually allotted to the several incomes. The rule given ahove, upon 
which it has been framed, has been strictly carried out in Nos. 1 and 2, 
while it has been modified in Kos. 3 and 4, by adding to " Houser 
keeping*' £25 and £15 respectively, deducting the amounts from the 
two lowest items in the table. It will also be seen, in analyzing the 
details for housekeeping, that the allowances for each article have 
been varied according to the necessities of the case. Tlius, the charge 
for bread in No. 1 does not bear the same ratio to Nos. 2, 3, and 4, that 
£350 bear to £250, £200, and £65 respectively, because this article is 
required in a proportionably larger amount in the poorer man*s family 
than it is in that of the man with an expenditure of £1000 a-year ; and 
the same remark will apply to many other items, though not to the 
same extent as in the " staff of life.** 

Weekly Exj^nsbs, 

1251. The calculation of the weekly expenses is readily made 
from the above table of annual expenditure by dividing each item 
by 52. Of course, every manager will find he (or she) must van* 
the items to suit particular circumstances, inasmuch as in many 
situations milk is dearer in proportion than bread, while it is an 
invariable rule that green -grocery in towns is double the price 
which it bears in the country; so that the calculation must only be 
received as an average one, and as serving to show the mode of 
arriving at the several details. But when the manager has carefully set 
about her task, and after putting down the whole sura to be spent, 
and dividing it into items, has proceeded to consider whether the lifty- 
second part of each of these will serve her for a week, she begins to 
see her way through her task, and at once is able to accommodate 
herself to circumstances, and to raise one, and lower another, accord- 
ingly. The great thing is, to make the calculation on paper, and when 
that is done, to determine to adhere to it somehow or other. But, without 
this weekly estimate, it is scarcely possible to check the expenditure 
until it has gone so far as to trench severely upon the whole sum to be 
laid out in the year. 

1252. When the manager has proceeded thus far, the next thing is to 

lay in a stock for the week, or in some articles for a loiger period, in- 

cJiiding in the latter those which improve by keeping, or which may 

be bought to advantage \u lai^ox c^^iaAllUi^ than are required tat t^ 



WEEKLY EXPENSES^ 825 



* seven days. But, until she has gained some experience in housekcep« 

I. iug, it is perhaps better in all cases either to buy a week's consumption, 

r or that for a month, or a quarter, or half a year, so that it may be 

t divided into distinct portions, one of which may be easily set apart for 

K each week. This is not possible with all the articles used in house^ 

i keeping, nor can the rule be as strictly carried out in the affairs of the 

: house as it can in a large mercantile establishment, because, in order 

c to do this, stock must be taken at the end of each week, which would 

: be a difficult and tedious affair. Besides which, some articles are not 

used invariably in the same quantities in each week, such as poultry 

and fish ; but these may be considered as exceptions to the rule, 

and treated accordingly. Coals and candles, again, are in much 

greater demand in the winter than in the summer ; so that usually 

in the latter season one-half or one>third at least may be subtracted 

from the weekly sum, and put by to be afterwards added to that 

demanded in the winter months. The remedy, however, is simple 

enough ; for though the expenses of each single week are not to be 

taken as the exact fifty-second part of the whole annual cost, yet 

after a time it will be found that one week will correct another, and 

that the cost of thirteen will give as nearly as may be the fourth part of 

the year's expenses, and, by proceeding fuither on the same principle, 

the outlay made in four weeks will show, though not so accurately, the 

thirteenth part of the annual expenditure. 

1253. The task relating to the provisioning for the week is affected 
by so many causes, that no rule can possibly apply. Thus, at a dis- 
tance from market, many articles are of necessity purchased at 
intervals, which would be bought as they are wanted where the 
proximity to good shops admitted of such a convenient mode. In the 
country it is often impossible to procure butcher's meat, or even 
butter, except on market-days ; so that, even in the sultry weather of 
midsummer, a stock sufficient for the interval must either be laid in 
at those times, or they must be altogether dispensed with. It must 
not therefore be assumed, that because the week's provisions are 
here indicated as purchased on the Saturday, the caterer should 
always do so on that day, but that she should comply with the rule in 
principle, and should only depart from it when some valid reason 
exists, as a matter of course substituting any other day of the week 
which may be the local market-day. The limits of thU h^o^V^^iN. 
necessarily prevent a statement of the «ic\u?\ (ii^xwX^'wv^^.^^K^'w*^'^ 
income; and therefore irhat is given can or^'j \>^ T^<iW^^»» ^^ 



826 ENGLISH OOOKERT. 



men of the plan generally to be adopted, which must be modified 
according to the circumstances already alladed to. In the higher 
incomes, also, there is less necessity for extreme care and anxiety, 
1)ccau80 the amounts set apart for them are on a liberal scale; and 
tliey will therefore be omitted in the calculation, the attention being 
confined to that most difficult problem comprised in the catering for 
a family upon the confined scale of expenses given onder the third 
auJ fourth columns. 

A Week's CATE&nra for an Expenditure on Housekeeping 

OF £150 a-Tear. 

1254. By the adoption of the above plan, and by subdividing the 
amounts given in the table of expenditure, the result is, that the 
mistress will have 18lb. of meat, 2s. worth of fish, 30lb. of bread, 2lb. 
of flour ; 6s. worth of milk, butter, and cheese ; 7s. worth of grocery ; 
Ss. lOd. worth each of green-grocery and beer; and 58. 9d. to spend in 
materials and female help in washing and ironing. She therefore goes 
to market and buys, we will say, a leg of mutton and a piece of the 
buttock of beef, tojrether weighing 18lb., which, allowing for one day's 
dinner on fish, will be 3lb. per day on the whole. The bread will 
allow of three-quarters of a pound per head per day, with 2lb. of 
flour for puddings during the week ; and, if it is made at home, there 
will be an extra quantity, or a saving to the extent of about 6d. The 
breakfast must be confined to oatmeal porridge or flour-milk alter- 
nately with bread and butter or dripping for the children, and also 
tea and sugar ; for which last item 6d. may be allowed for breakfast 
and tea, and 6d. for the sugar, rice, raisins, &c., used at dinner for 
puddings. About 6jd. is allowed per day for green-grocery and beer 
respectively, which is quite enough for these items ; so that the chief 
difficulty lies in the management of the meat, which must be eked out 
with some care, and made to go as far as possible. Three pounds are 
allowed per day, or, in other words, the leg of mutton and piece of 
beef must each last three days, which, with a family of four children, 
is not a very easy task. Many people do this by filling their stomachs 
with heavy pudding in the first place ; but this, I believe, to be wrong 
in point of health and economy. Whatever is considered a treat, will 
be eaten by children after they have already had enough of other 
articles of food. The better ipVaa \a to tOiV \\v^-vc\. >iJcv^!kX. «3> \scq«l\v 'ruUI be 
given of meat and no more, mvQi tVc^tv \e\ xJcv^tcv V^^^ ^Oc^^xx -^^xsAjSs^'^, 
afterwards. In this way t\v^ foWoV^tv^ «^ii^«* ^^1 ^^ ««^x.^^..- 



A "week's CATERINa ON SIXTY-PTVE POUNDS A-YEAB. 327 



Sunday.— l^g of matton; roast potatoes 
k: and greens; Yorkshire padding. 
, Jionday./-JCo\d matton; potatoes and 
'^ salad; rice padding. 
tz Tuesday.— awhed matton; fHed potatoes; 

CHUiiflower; apple dumplings. 
"^ Tre<liiefday.-^oiled beef; carrots and pota- 
fc. toes; saet padding; 



7%ur«<{ay.— Pea-soup made ft^m the 
mutton bones and beef boilings; flsh 
and potatoes; currant dumplings. 

IfYiday.— Cold boiled beef; potatoes and 
salad; bread-and-butter padding, made 
with fruit preserve. 

/Saturday.— Bubble and sqaeak; potatoes; 
yeast dumplings. 



In this plain way it is nndoubtedlj possible to keep a family of four 
cliildren in good health on the above sum ; and, what is more, there 
is not a particle of waste in the method of cookery. It is quite absurd 
to suppose that more can be done with the materials in point of 
economy. They may, no doubt, be made into more palatable dishes ; 
but as, in the case of healthy children, due justice will generally be 
done to the above fare, it is useless to make the attempt on their 
account alone. While at the same time, if parents have this limited 
income, and have also a family of the number described above to 
keep, they must content themselves with this plain fare, or else they 
must pinch the stomachs of their children in order to pamper their own. 

A Week's CATSBiKa foe ak Expenditure of £65 pes Annum 

ON Housekeeping. 

1255. The manager has here a much more difficult task to perform, 
as she has to support the same family upon a smaller allowance of the 
most expensive articles, and cannot, therefore, afford butcher's meat 
every day. She will have the following materials to go to work upon 
— viz., about lllb. of meat or bacon, 20lb. of bread, and 3lb. of 
flour ; 3s. worth of milk, butter, and cheese ; 3s. worth of grocery ; 2s. 
worth of green-grocery; Is. lOd. for beer; and 9d. a week for washing 
materials, the labour for which she must find herself. All these 
contracted items will, therefore, demand great care, as the quantities 
furnished are scarcely sufficient for the wants of nature. Unless, 
by good fortune, there is a garden to supply potatoes, or they 
can be purchased at a low rate, it is impossible to effect a full 
diet on this scale, as three pecks of potatoes per week are the 
titmost which can be obtained for the money, on the average, 
throughout England. This will allow nearly half a peck a day, or say 
6lb., which gives one pound of potatoes per head for dinner, with 
)iearly half a pound of bread each per day for breakfast and tea, to be 
eaten with one quarter of a pound of salt butter among the family., 
divided between the morning and evemn^ me«\. Cix^^ ^sjoasN. «:k\ tsS^*- 
rrlU Also be allowed^ but no cheese, as Ib^c^e Vt \jo\i^ ^>sjL^'iNs«?i*5j?aji 



328 E50LIBH COOKERY. 



article of food. The next thing, therefore, to consider, it m to the 
dinners, which maj he as follows ; — 

iSvii'/'iy.— Aheep*riliciid routed with chopped 
Uvlt, and rout potatoes. 



I£oHJiip.—Htmn\m\eT of sheep's plaek Med, 
v ith disli uf fl-led potatoes. 

TM$dap.—H9if a pooml of baoon firled with 
cabUue, aiid eaten with boiled potatoes; 
suet puddins. 



HVd/ieidaif.— Bonim (pflffo 81); cabbitse 

and potatoes, 
nifrfdory.— Pot-ftn-Am (page 81); potatoes 

and yeast dompllngis. 
/V*u/ay.— Two pounds of beef stewed wUk 

carrot« or potatoes, as Irish Stew. 
ArficrAiif.— 'Fea<40ap made without meat, 

or from part of pot-au-fett : fkled potatoes 

and saet padding. 



These remarks might he indefinitely- extended ;. hat the naturul 
intelligence of every individual must he exercised in arranging different 
kinds of cheap food, so as to suit the ever-varj'ing circumstances con- 
nected with the locality. Much that would be useful to the man with 
only £65 a year to spend in this waj, may be found under Cookery 
for the Poor (page 304), if he is not too ))roud to make use of it ; but 
the prevailing error in this country is, that the man who is crami>cd 
in his means will not make up his mind to bend his diet low enongh 
in materials to suit his purse. We are all too apt to try and imitate 
the manners of our superiors just above us ; and in this way much 
misery and inconvenience is occasioneO, which might be avoided by a 
timely submission to our lot. 

Economical Fare for a very Small Family. 

1256. When a smaller family than the above requires a very econo- 
mical fare, the case is still more difficult, because less variety can be 
obtained from those joints which are well known to be the only really 
economical ones. Nevertheless, a good deal may be done by manage- 
ment ; and even in the case of a leg of mutton, the dinners for a whole 
week may be obtained from it without having any two exactly alike, 
aud without extra cost in any way. The following is the method pro- 
posed, which may be often useful to a married couple without children 
or servant, or to two sisters living by themselves. 



lit Day.— C\xt some steaks off the large end 
and broil thcra. 

ind Dai/.— Cut off a small knuckle and boil 

It, to be seived with caper or nasturtium 
sauce. 

Srd Z>ay.— Cut some cutlets off the side next 
the knuckle, aud (ry with esg and bread 
crumbs. 



ith Daif—Rono and stuff the flUet, which is 
to be roasted. 

5th Z>ay.— Hash part of the remainder. 

6th Day.—E&t part cold, with salad. 

7th Dap.— hl\nce the remainder, and cover 
with breaU crumbs. (Sue par. 631). 



1257. A sirloin of beef may be treated nearly in the same way, but 
docs not admit of quite so much yaricty. Thus — 



BILLS OF FAES TOR OSE THOUSAND A-YEAR. 



329 



ri 



C 

1 



1st Day.— Cnt off t1:e thin end, and litew 
!Kith pens or carrots, and potatoeSi 

2nd Day.— Cut a thin steak off one side, and 
broiL 

9rd Day.—'Rosat, 



4th Day.—Bafih part of rcinoiHS. 
5ih Day —Eat part cold. 

6th Z)a^.— Miuce part ^^ ith carrots (see par. 
031;. 



1258. The following bills of fare, arranged to suit an expenditure of 
jCIOOO a year, on the calculation that the materials of each dinner will 
cost about 8s., which is the sum allowed in the table at page 323, ex- 
clusive of beer and wine. 



Bujjs or Fabb fob £1000 a Ybab. 
Jamuabt. 
(a) Pea-Soap, 

.fi^more— Boiled rabbit smothered in onions. 
Hashed Stewed 

potatoeii celeiy. 

Boast leg of matton. 

Bread-and-butter padding. 

Vince pies. Stewed pears. 

Brace of partridges. 



(6) Minced matton, browned. 
Fried potatoes, gar- 

Dished with BrocoIL 

plain boiled potatoes. 

Cod*s head and shonlders. 
iiemope— Sirloin of beef 

Lesmington pudding. 

Glasses of cus- Preserved fruit in 

tdrd glasses. 

Hot apple tarL 



(c) 

Mashed 
potatoeSb 



Febbdabt. 
Boiled turlLey. 

Cold roast beeC 



Jerusalem 
artichokes. 



Semolina padding. 
Arrowroot Stewed 

Iriancmange. apples. 

Macaroni 

(J) Cod-fish, fricasseed, with 

wall of potatoes. 

Potatoes. Sea-kale. 

Boast grlskln of pork. 

Bollj-polly padding, baked or boiled. 
Fruit tart 

Mabch. 
{e) French soup. 

Remove— \&i\ cutlets, garnished 
with bacon. 
BrnmeJs^uwitM. Potatoes. 

Jtoast loin of ixuitton. 



Apple soufla^ padding. 
Open tart 



(/> 



Boiled beef, garnished with 
carrots and parsnips, 
nam 
garnished with 
greens, 
lioast fowls, garnished with sausages. 



PotatoeSb 



Custard pudding. 
Beronant of Stewed 

open tart pears. 

Boiled apple-dumpling!!. 



Potato balls. 



Apbxu 
Hashed pork. 



Mashed 
Jcnisalera 
articiiokes. 
Mutton en masquerade. 

Lemon dumplings. 
Pancakes. 



Potatoes. 



Boiled leg of mutton. 
CQtlets of soles. 

Prussia puffs. 
Fruit tart 



BrocoIL 



(0 
Potatoes. 



Mat. 
Onion soup. 



Stewed breast of vaaL 

Ground-rice pudding. 
Bhubarb tart 



AsparagUb 



0") 

Mashed turnips 



Eggs and spinach, 



Potatoes. 



Stewed bee£ 



830 



EK0LI8H OOOKKRT. 





Jun. 




(»1 


Boiled booQiL 




<k) 


MnttoacnUet& 




FoUtOCiL 


Broad bean& 


I'OUtOCSi 


Aiptfagiit.| 




Deer-«teok plo. 






Botit fillet of reftL 






FMar'aomdeC 






Bhabarto podding. 






Apple chariotte. 




K m 


Hi, with cheeM grated 


or«rit. 




























(T) 


TnxtMt 




(A 


Fea-aoupb 




I*olatocf. 




BplnadL 


Rtmof Hushed mutton 


» 




Quarter of Iambi 




Potatoes. 


French besBSi 










BlbsofbeeC 






Bread podding. 










Ca«Urdt in 


Cliecse- 


Bread-and-bntter podding. 


glunefl. 




cakea. 


Tartlets. 


Stewed apples. 




QootebfTry tait 






Brace of portridgei. 






JULT. 












(m) 


Boiled lamb. 




(0 


Boiled chicken. 




Vuung poUtoea. 


FM8. 


Savooiy 




Mashed 




Boaitducka. 




rioe. 


Stewed bee£ 


potatoes. 




Qmund-rice pudillni^ 












Bfd-currant tarL 






Sponge-cake poddlngc 
CnfltanL 




Yonng 


Hmliidduck. 


Stewed 




Apple tart& 












^otdiuea. 


French bcanii 










Tarbot. 




(tt) 


Babbit cony. 










Potatoes. 


Jerusalem artichokc& 




Cabinet pudding. 






Boast spare^rib of iiurlL 






Jelly. 












0|)cn tart. 






Baked hasty-pudding 






ArousT. 
Chiclicn pie. 






Macaroni and cheese. 




Ko) 






Tutatocs. 


Stewed cucnml)er8. 


(f) 


Minced mutton. 






Bubble and squealc 




I'cas-pndding. 


Potatoes. 










Boiled pork. 






Maenroni pudding. 






Lemon suet |>udding; 






Blaclc-curraiit tart. 






Potato fritters. 




(P) 


Hodge-podge. 




Dkcembeb. 




I'otatoes. 


Stewed peas. 


(IC) 


Wild ducks. 






Lamb cutlets. 








Stewed 




-i — 




rotatoes. 




Portugal 




Strawberry soufHd. 








onions. 




Stewed currants. 






Boast leg of mutton. 
Swiss pudding. 






Septkmber. 






(^ 


Brace of grouse. 






Mince pies. 




I'otatoes. 


Vegetable marrow. 










Boast leg of mutton. 




{X) God*s head and shonlders. 








Potatoes. 


Mashed tnmii>!i. 




Oxford puddln(ir8> 






Sirloin of bce£ 






Wliipped cream. 












I'luin tart 






Plum pudding. 
Apple tart. 





1259. The annexed Bii.l.s oif"B^Ktt wc^ %\v\\.^^ \a «cw ^-x^^^sSixNsjK^ 
Cf £500 a-yeai, in Yrhicli, on tiie calL^xi^aXKa^ m%^^ Vo. ^^ n;^!^ 



BILLS OP FARE FOR FIVB HUNDRED A-YBAB. 



381 



fCiven at page 323, 4s. 6d. per day will be about the sum allotted for 
the dinners. 



^a 



(a) 
Potatoes. 



Bills of Fabe fob £500 a Tbab. 

Janca&t. 
Yorkshire padding. 



Jcmsalem 

artichokes, 

mashed. 



Leg of mutton. 
Ground rice pudding. 



(ft) 

ilrussels 

sprouts. 



Minced mutton. 



Stewed beef-steaks. 

Benmmit of pudding. 
Hot apple tart 



Hashed 
potatoes. 



(0 
Potatoes. 



FSBRUAHT. 

Soles. 
Irish stew. 



Parsnips. 



Teal cutlets. 

Arrowroot puddingi 
Cheese-cakes. 



(0 
Potatoes. 



Mat. 
Hashed mutton. 



BrocoIL 



BoAst leveret. 

Baked tapioca-and-rhnbarb pudding 

0') Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Quarter of lamb. 

A baked Jam roll puddinp. 



Potato-balls. 



Jdne. 
A brill. 

Yeal cutlets. 



Cabbage. 



Hllk custard in glosses. 
A green apricot tart. 



Poor Knight's pudding. 
Tartlets. 



(J) 

Greens. 



Carrot soup. 

Mashed potatoes, 
gamisiied with 
browned ditto. 

Boast pork. 

Pancakes. 



Mabch. 

(ej Carrots. 

Muslied tumiiJS. 

Boiled beeC 



Potatoes. 



Baked apple dumplings. 



(/) Ham. 

Young potatoes. 

BuUed fillet of veaL 

Gooseberry fooL 
Arrowroot blancmance. 



Feaa 



im) 
Peas. 



Jdlt. 
Soup Julienne. 

Lamb cutlets. 

Bemnant of some sweet 
Currant tart 



Potatoes. 



(/) 



Pea-soup. 
Potatoes. 
Bubble and squeak. 

Bice and apple sonfBd. 



(») 



(ff) 
Jerusalem 

artichokes. 



Caifhage, 



Apbil. 
Ham or bacon. 

Fillet of TcaL 

Bhubarb tart 

Poached eggs and bacon. 



Mashed 
potatoes. 



A marsclen. 

Potatoes. 

Hodge-podge. 

Strawberries and cream. 
Bice pudding. 



(0) 



AnousT. 

Yegetablo soup. 

French beans. 

Potato I'iti. 

Custard pudding; 
Stewed fruit. 



(p> Shoulder of mnttoik 

BroaCLV>escn&. 



Fried potatoes. I 






332 



EKOLISH COOKEUT. 



Skftembkb. 

(7) Ciiickcu pie. 

Stfwod French 
beuns. 

Coid roast becC 

Carrot padding: 



Potatoes. 



(r) Cod*i head and shoulders. 

1. *»♦««- Stewed 

I'otatoes. mushrooms. 

Beef stewed with peas, 
linked batter pudding with damsons. 





OCTOBES. 




rotiitoes. 


Brace of partridges. 

Harlco. 
Potato fritters. 


Vegetable 
morrows. 


(/) 


Bonst sirloin of beeC 
Potatoes—Spinach. 

Milk custard. 
Damson pudding. 






November. 




(«) 


Goose. 
Potatoes. 

Swiss l^idding. 




(r) 


Peas-pudding. 

Potatoes. 

Boiled leg of pork. 

Bread pudding. 
Tartlets. 




(If) 

Potatoes. 


December. 
Pig*s puddings. 

nore. 


Jerusalem 
Ariichuli.c8. 


Potatoes. 


Apple charlotte. 

Bice pudding. 

Turkey. 

Chine. 


Brocoll. 




Plum pudding. 
Hi nee pics. 





l?f.O. Is SKAnciiixo FOR Vabiett, the 

housekeeper niiiy receive some assistance 

from t)ie tollowing list of articles in scosou 

in the different mouths lUioug\\out the 

year. 



\ 



SKASOW AL Tablb. 
Jakuabt. 

Meat.— Beef, mutton, pork, and hoiisM«mh. 

Poin.TBT and Gamk.— Pheasants partridges, 
hares, rabbits, woodcocks, Miipea. wild 
fowl, turkeys, capons, puUeta, ibwLs 
chickens, pigeons, and larks. 

Fish ^Carp, tench, perch, lampreys, eels, 

pike, cod, soles, tioanders, plaice, tarbot, 
skate, smelts, whitings, lotraters, crabs, 
crayflLsh, prawns, oysters 

VEGETABLE&— Cabbage, saTOjrg, colewort, 
sprouts, brocoM. sea-kale, leeks, onions, 
beet, sorrel, endive, spinach, celtiy, 
garlick, potatoes, parsnips, taniips, 
8hak>ts, lettooea, creases, mustard, herbs 
of all sorts, diy or green. 

Fbutt.— Apples, pears, nuts, walnuts, med- 
lars, orangvrs, aund grapes. 

Febeuabt ahp March. 
Meat and Fowl as in Jana.iry, with the 

addition of ducklings and chickens; 

which last are to be bought in London 

throughout the year, but are uow veiy 

dear. 
Fia&— As the last month: except that cod 

is not thought so good (Yt>m February to 

July, but may generally be l)Ought; and 

salmon is coming in, though vpry scarce. 
Vegetables.— The same as the fdrmcr 

months, with the addition of forced 

kidney-beans. 
FnuiT — Apples, pears, oranges, and forced 

strawberries. 

April, May, and Juke. 

Meat— Beef, mutton, veal, lauib, and veni- 
son in June. 

PouLTKT.— Pullets, f<)wl!«, chickcus, duck- 
lings, pigeons, rabbits, leverets. 

Fish.— Carp, tench, sole, smelts, eels, trnnt, 
turbot, lobsters, chub, salmon, herrings, 
mackerel,crayflsli.cral>s, prawns, shrimiis. 

Vegetables.— As before. In May, early 
potatoes. In June, peas, radishes, kidney- 
beans, carrots, turnips, early cabkMi^'e^, 
cauliflowers, a.<«para>:us artichokes, apd 
all sorts of salads forced. 

FRurrs.— In June, strawberries, cherries, 
melons, green apricots, currants, and 
gooseberries for tart*. In July, cherries, 
strawberries, pears, melons, gooselicrries, 
currants, apricots, graipea, nfctariiict, 
and home peuche-s. But most of the^e are 
forced, and sold ut a high price. 

JuLT, August, and Septeubeb. 

Meat, as before. 

Poultry and Game.— Pullets, f >wl8, chick- 
ens, rabbits, pigeons, green geese, turkey 
poults', leverets. Two first months, 
plovers, wheat -ears; geese in 8epteift> 



I>IlIirCIFL£S OF CABTINO. 



833 









. and grouse after Angost 18. Hares all 
throoflfh; quail and landrails. 

Fish.— Cod, haddock, flounders, plaice, 
skate, thombaek, mullets, salmon, UH the 
tSth September, pike, carp, eels, shell- 
flah^-except (^rsters. Mackerel the first 
two months of the quarter, but not good 
in August 

-TcoBTABLEa.~or all sorts. Beans, peas, 
French-beans. Ac Ac 

f&DiT.— In July— strawberries, gooscber> 
riet, pine-apples, plums (rarlons), cher- 
ries, apricots, raspberries, melons, cur- 
rants, damsons. In August and Sep- 
tember, peaches, plums, figs, filberts, 
molberries, cherries, apples, pears, nec- 
tarines, grapes. Latter months, pines, 
melons, strawberries. Medlars and 
qoinoes in the latter months. Morella 
cherries, damsons, and various plums. 

October. 

Meat as before, and doe Tcnison. 

l*otJLTRT AHD Gaxb— Fowls ss In the last 
quarter. Pheasants ftom the first or 
October; panrldgea, grouse, larks, hares, 
dotterels. At the end of tlie mouth, wild- 
dneks, teal, snipes, widgeon. 

Fpb— Dorics, smelts, pike, perch, halibut, 
bri'l, cariH barbel, gudgeon, tench, shell- 
fish. 

VKORTABLX&— As in January. Frencb- 
bcaus, last crops of beans, Ac 



Fruit.— Peaches, pears, figs, bullace, grapes, 
apples, medlars, damsons, filberts, wal- 
nuts, nuts, quinces, services. 

KOYEXBEB. 

Mkat. — Beef, mutton, veal, poHc, doe 
venison. 

PouLTBT AXD GAME as tn lost month. 

Fish as in last month. 

Vegetables —Carrots, turnips, parsnips, 
potatoes, onions, leeks, sbnlots, otbbaKe, 
savoys, colewort, spinath, cros;>es, en- 
dive, celery, lettuces, salad, herbs, pot- 
herbs. 

FnriT— Pears, apples, nuts, walnuts, bul- 
lace, chestnuts, medlars, grapes. 

December. 

Meat.— Beef, mutton, veal, bouse Iamb, 
pork, and doe venison. 

Pocltet and Game. — Geese, turkeys, 
pullets, pigeons, capons, lowls, chickens 
rabbits, hares, snipes, woodcocks, larks 
pheasants, partridges, guinea-fowl, wild* 
ducks, teal, widgeon, dotterels, dmj« 
birds, grouse, and ptarmigan. 

Fisn.»X;od, turbot, halibut, soles, gnmets, 
carp, pike, gudgeons, eels, dories, sheli- 
flsh. 

Vegetables.— As In the last month, and 
asparagns forced, Ac 

Fruit as in the last month. 



* 



CHAP. XXVI.— PRINCIPLES OF CAnVING. 

1261. The general pnnciples upon which carving is, or onght 
to be conducted, are very plain, and the only real difficulty consists 
in the necessity for practice, to enable the carver to hit the joints 
either between the several bones of a piece of mutton or veal, or in 
any of the various kinds of poultry or game. Each of these must, 
therefore, be separately considered ; but, with regard to butcher's 
meat, one rule may be laid down as almost, but not quite, invariable, 
and that is — always to cut across the fibres of the meat, and not in the 
same direction. This ensures a short grain, and avoids those long 
strings in the mouth, which are by no means pleasant. If, therefore, 
the carver will only examine into this point, and ascertain the direction 
of the grain or fibres of the meat, he will at once be able to cross them 
with the knife, and gain the desired advantage. The exception alluded 
to is the under side of the sirloin of beef, which is always cut ia the 
direction of its fibres, though I realAy do Tvot. ?.fe<i ^Vj> ^^\\.\^\ss».^^ 
improved in ffaronr hy catting it in t\ie sam^ 6\x^^NXni^ ^^ ^«k vc^iV*^ 
tide, that is, parallel with tho bones. T\ua, \io^v?«t,Na ^^^ ^'^^ 



834 EsroLiSH cx)okert. 



efi9j task with a bad knife, as the meat is apt to slip ftrom the bone» 
The next rale to be observed is to make the knife and fork assist each 
other— that is to say, the fork should steady the joint for tho knife, or 
whare the fork is nsed as the means of division in remoring the leg of 
a fowl, the knife must take the office of steadying the body of the 
bird, and the same remark applies to the carving of a hare or rabbit, 
or any other kind of poultry or game ; and, thirdly, it is very important, 
in an economical point of view, to cut all slices, either of meat, game, 
or poultry, completely down to the bone, so as to leave no ragged 
portions behind. 

Cabyino by the Botler in Large Parties. 

1262. In parties of any size or pretensions, it is now the fashion for 
the butler to carve all the dishes on the side-table ; but this requires 
a servant equal to the task, with assistants in proportion, and also a 
'dining-room large enough to admit of a side-board devoted solely to 
this purpose. In small quiet parties, and in the home circle, the carv- 
ing will still be carried out by the master or mistress of the house, and 
therefore it is necessary to make some remarks on the subject in this 
place. I 

Knives and Forks. i 

12G3. The carving knives and forks are made specially for each 
article ; thus, for fish they are of silver or plated ware, with a large j 
massive blade for the knife, and the fork also large and massive, with 
five })rongs, so as to raise a large flake of the flesh without breaking 
it. Afijain, for large joints, such as beef, mutton, or venison, a long 
steel blade is required, which should be made very sharp with the 
steel, applied in the true butcher's mode, and in addition a two- 
pronged fork ; and lastly, for game, the handles are long, to give a 
good purchase in twisting off the leg, while the blade of the knife is 
small and pointed, so as to be easily insinuated between the small 
bones at the wing, the fork being also two-pronged. 

A Cod's Head and Shoulders 

1264. Is a most troublesome dish to carve, because, if well boile<1, 

it looks whole until touched, and then tumbles to pieces in the most 

trying way to the inexperienced carver. As in the salmon, so here, 

the thick and the thin parts are not equally prized by all, and should 

be served according to c\vo\e^. TVvet^ \s,, ^Uo^ a part on the head 

behind the eye which is m\ic\v leVvatv^^i, ««v^ ^i^^^ ^^ Ocv^^s.^XR^'^^jt^s. 

with many other tU-V\ts ahoxiX. \\v^ h^t.^. C\o^^ x^ ^'^X.v^^^^W^a. 

the sound, the flavour of ^h\e\xVs v^uox^-^^^ \.i ^^^n. ^'.^^X^^W. 



-* *-m 



I^j-.IM 




BKILL, SOLES, AlO) PLAICE. d3d 

I not by all, as is the case with the liver also; each of which should be 
I divided into portions suited to the size of the party, and their respec- 
tive wishes on the subject. Thus, draw the knife from b to i> \jig* 
138), then meet this line by cutting from A to b, and from c to d ; or, if 
necessary, smaller slices may be cut according to the party, but always 
in these directions. The thick is the part here cut — the thin is below 
the longitudinal line. 

To Cabve Salmon, 

1265. It IS only necessary to take care to avoid breaking the flakes 
Unnecessarily, by attempting to divide them at right angles with the 
long axis of the fish. There is a great difierence in the flavour of the 
back or thick part, and that of the thin part of the fish, and therefore 
most people like to be asked which they prefer. This being done, the 
knife is carried down to the bone longitudinally, and removes a thick 
slice of either or both, according to the choice. (See directions for 
codfish, par. 1264.) 

TUBBOT 

1266. Requires peculiar carving, because, unlike other fish, its skin 
and fins are thought a great delicacy. It is only necessary to caiTy 
the blade of the knife down to the bone along the middle, and 
then to make similar deep and clean cuts at right angles to this, 
each way to the fins, a portion of which should be separated and kept 
with each square offish, so as to avoid that hacking of the fins into 
pieces afterwards, which is by no means sightly. When this part is 
not approved of, it is very easy to leave the fin attached to the bones 
below (see Jig, 139). 

Bbill, Soles, and Plaice, 

1267. Are carved much in the same way as turbot when they are of 
any size ; but small soles are completely divided into two or three por- 
tions by the knife, which requires a slight twist in order to do this with 
ease. Many ladies with weak wrists have great difficulty in eflecting 
this seemingly simple operation ; but though strength will enable any 
bungler to do it, yet a little knack will make up for the deficiency in 
this ingredient, and place the delicate lady's hand on a level with that 
of the most powerful man. The exact method, however, can scarcely 
be described, and must be watched and imitated, in order to insure hs 
being caught by the learner. Some peo\k\^ '^x^.^^x \» T«Kv<a!^<^ *^^ 
whole of the Beah in the same way as Va caxNVa^\.>r£^^N.>^'^^'^'^ «^^^ 

^aiswers for large solesm 



336 ENGUSa OOOKVBT. 



Mackerel. 

12G8. Mackerel are split at the tail, and the upper half raised at 
that part from the bones, after which the hone is removed from the 
lower half of the fish, and that in its tnm is serred either in one piece 
or divided into two, according to its size. 

Small Fish. 

1269. Most other small fish are carved mnch in the same way, thai 
is, cither by serving them whole, or dividing them with the knife into 
sections, according to size. 

Lobsters. 

1270. For the mode of serving lobsters and crabs, see page 70. 
The sketch at fig, 140 will shew the way in which lobsters and crabs 
are arranged on the dish for table. 

The Haunch op Mutton or Venison 

1271. Is carved very differently by different people. The usual 
plan is to cut through the flesh between the leg and loin, and then to 
run the knife from this to the lower end of the loin, cutting parallel 
slices in that direction. A much better plan, however, consists in 
making these cuts in one sweep, carrying the knife directly from the 
outside of the leg to the end of the loin, and thus getting a beautiful 
long slice of lean with the fat at the end (see fig. 176, a b). There 
is, also, a delicious mine of kidney-fat in the loin of mutton under the 
flank, which is often too high in venison ; but, if fresh enough, is even 
moio rich and palatable in that meat than in mutton. 

Saddle op Mutton. 

1272. The saddle of mutton is carved in three different wavs — 1st, 
by longitudinal slices along each side of the bone, by which the lean 
and fat do not come in the same slice; 2nd, by transverse slices, taking 
in the bones, and which therefore must be thick and clumsy ; and 3rd, by 
oblique slices, slightly curved, which is far the best plan^ in which the 
knife begins at the bone near the tail, and, after cutting off the outside, 
takes a series of parallel slices all through the joint (seeyJ^jr. 177). 

Leo of Mutton. 

\2'Jii, The leg of muttOTV va ta.^a\i\^ oi Vi^sxTi^ carved in two modes, 
the choice of whlcli must de^exv^ ^ve«L>i\^ ^v"^«^ xVcx^tcot^^x ^\^t^^-w\^ l^ 
to be served. Thus, for a smaW oi[ic,\\.\*V^^^x^^ ^^ ^^x.^^V.^xt^-^^ 
direction JLB, fig. 178-, but ihVsouAy ^^^Vx^-^^-^-^^--^^--^^ 



fflT . t76 




'->^ 



A LOIN OF VEAL. 337 

slices, bejond which they are of loose and coarse fibre. But bj turn- 
ing up the leg, and cutting it exactly on the plan shown in the figure 
of the haunch, a much greater proportion of handsome slices may be 
obtained, and consequently a larger party may all be equally gratified. 

Shouldbb of Mutton or Lamb. 

1274. In carving a shoulder of mutton or lamb, the first thing for 
the young housekeeper to ascertain is the position of the bone, which 
18 near the edge on one side at J^,Jig. 179. Here the knife must not 
be inserted, because it would be stopped at once ; but by trying the 
opposite side a deep cut may be made, and from its two surfaces 
slices are readily obtained. When this part is exhausted, slices may 
be procured along the sides of the bladebone at (c d) and (b f), and 
again on the under-side some few good cuts will be met with. 

FOBB-QUABTEB OF LaUB. 

1275. The fore-quarter of lamb must be commenced by separating 
the shoulder from its bed, carrying the knife all round it, and raising 
it with the fork ; after which a lemon should be squeezed into the cut 
surface, and a little pepper and salt then sprinkled orer it ; b\it all 
this may be much better done in the-kitchen than on the dining-table. 
In order to carve this part, the same directions will apply as are 
given in the last paragraph ; and for the remaining portion it is only 
necessary to separate the thin part, called the brisket, from the ribs, 
and then divide each into transverse sections. One rib is usually 
served to each plate, and with this many people like a small division 
of the brisket ; but the question ought always to be asked before giving 
either or both. 

A Breast of Veal. 

1276. A breast of veal is carved in the same way as the bed of the 
fore-quarter of lamb after the shoulder is removed. 

The Fillet of Veal. 

1277. The fillet of veal merely requires successive horizontal slices 
of meat to be taken off with a sharp knife, serving with each a small 
portion of fat and forcemeat, unless disliked by the person for whom 
it is intended. 

A Loin of Veal. 

1278. A loin of veal is usually divided Vnlo \.N<io '^QT^AQ^TSl%^^^ Ok«ss^ 
mdand the kidney end. The latter meteVf x^^\om«^ Xa X^^^Sc^N^R^- 



83S 



into portions at rigfat angles with its length, ereiy other one of which 
contain! a bone, and the intermediate one is of meat only. Most 
people like some of the fat on the under side, round the kidney, spread 
on UMsi and seasoned, when it eats like marrow. The Chump Esd 
has the tail atuched to iu upper side, and this must be taken off 
horizontally, after which snccessire slices of meat are served withont 
any bone, which is all in one piece, and therefore not capable of being 
divided. 

SHOrXDKK OF YbAI.. 

1279. The shoulder of real is canred like the riioulder of mutton 
by some people ; hut the best plan is to begin on the under-side, and 
then cQt slices from the thick edge opposite the bone, and parallel 
with it. When stuffed, a portion must be served on each plate. 

SntLonr of Beef. 

12S0. The sirloin of beef is usually carved by cutting the upper side 
in slices parallel with the bone, and commencing at the edge, the 
brown of which forms the first slice. On the under side the knife is 
generally made to cross the grain, cutting through the middle down 
to the bone, and removing slices on each side. This part, however, 
tastes much better if cut on the same plan as the upper side, that is, 
by commencing at the edge ; but in this way the slices are small, and 
do not look so handsome, for which reason the ordinary mode is gene- 
rally preferred (see jig. 180). 

Rl'mp and H-Bone. 

1281. The ramp and h-bone are carved by commencing to cut from 
the surface of the meat iu such a direction that the grain is cut across ; 
by attending to which a mistake may always be avoided. 

The Hocnd. 

1282. The round of beef requires the same management as the fillet 
of veal, the slices being cut in the direction a b c,Jig. 181. 

IxFEBioR Joints. 

1283. The inferior joints of beef must all be cut according to the 
principles alluded to at par. 1238 — that is to say, by catting across the 
grain. The brisket is no exception to this rulei the bones being ne- 
glected in carrying it oat. 

1284. The ox tongue, w^en s^nx u> \aXi\^ ^^o^JJw x^\&i^^\^ .sm:^^ 



POULTRY Am) GAME. 339 



by catting it nearly in the middle, leaving a small portion at the bot- 
tom to keep the two parts together. Many people like a little fat 
served with the lean, but others do not like its flavour. When rolled 
and pressed, as directed at page 117, the knife is carried horizontally, 
as in carving a fillet of veal. 

Ham. 

1285. A ham may be carved in three ways-^lst, it may be com- 
menced at the knuckle, and gradually worked up to the other end ; 
2nd, it may be cut in the middle, and each s^de taken from until ex- 
hausted, taking care to carry the knife down to the bone in a perpen- 
dicular direction (a b,^^. 182); or, 3rd, a hole may be scooped out in 
the middle, and thin circular slices removed from around it (p^Jig. 182). 
In any case the slices oughi to be thin and regular, which requires 
some little practice ; for the third method great art is demanded. 

Pig. 

1286. A sucking pig requires very little carving, as the knife may 
be carried through any of it« bones with little force. It is usual to 
divide it into sections about two inches broad, and including about 
three ribs in the middle, and a part only of the fore and hind-quarters 
at each end (a b — ^b c,Jig. 183). 

Cal-f's Heau. 

1287. A calfs head merely demands the careful use of the knife in 
cutting off longitudinal slices of the gelatinous skin, carrying the 
blade straight down to the bone. 

Poultry and Game. 

1288. Poultry and game require all the art of the experienced carver 
to do justice to them, inasmuch as they may be made to look extremely 
inviting if nicely separated, or they may be hacked to pieces by the 
bad manager of the carving-knive. One of the chief advantages of the 
present fashionable method of serving a dinner consists in the avoid- 
ance of this mistake, which is alike annoying to the giver of a good 
dinner and to the guests. The mistress cannot always allot the task 
to a person who is skilful at this craft, and, if the reverse takes place, 
she is annoyed at his bungling for his sake as well as her own. As 
far as possible, *he fork should only be ixvaeil^ oxi^^ ^tA ts^sA. ^^-^s^c^- 
naalJjr driven id, and then removed to try a ftfes\i ^\wi^. ''^^k^ '^^^^'^^'^ 

stabbing diafigwcca the bird, andlooka ©w^^w^ w^Sl ^xTi€\ifip5^"i ^'^ 



940 ENGLISH OOOKVBT. 

carver, besides which it is seldom or neTer necessaiy. The 
special directions maj assist the young carrer, bat nothinf 
actual ohserration and trial will make him accomplished in 

TCBKEY. 

1289. A roast or boiled tnrkey may be made to serve a gm 
of people if carved with judgment, or it may be used so extr 
as to bS expended before half the guests have been served, 
knife should be passed clearly down to the bone, almost el 
wing, and then a thin slice is taken out from between thi 
breast, continuing the same plan until the whole side is e 
after which the other side is served in the same way. A 
the force-meat is also placed in each plate ; and, if there an 
or balls, a part of each of them. When both sides of the ' 
used up, and the party are not all served, the legs must be 
by carrying the knife backward between them and the bod 
is stopped by the joint, when by means of the fork stuck in 
is severed from the body, the knife completing the removal b 
If possible, however, the carver should endeavour to aro 
recourse to the legs ; and it is usually either a reproach upoi 
tress for not procuring a sufficiently large bird, or upon 
powers of car\'ing, if such an expedient is unavoidable. It 
the leg into its two portions, the knife should be used &{ 
inside of the joint, where it enters with much less difficult 
the outside. After this, in a large bird, the meat is cut off r 
for serving. 

Chicked. 

1290. The roast or boiled chicken, when carved hot, is 
cut into separate joints, consisting of — Ist, the wings ; 2nd, 
3rd, the merrythought; 4th, the neck-bones; 5th, the bn 
the back and its side-bones ; 7th, the neck. But, excepting ; 
use, it is seldom customary to use more than the wings, merr 
and breast, or sometimes in addition the legs. The plan oi 
ing is, to stick the fork into the breast firmly, then draw 
steadily along the line between the leg and body, con tin oil 
ward until it has separated a slice of the breast with the w 
If the carver is dexterous, he hits the joint at once; and 
remove a wing as if ther^ wet^ xvo \>QTvfe %\. «\\,\\vft f.rt con 

guessing at the exact B\tuat\oTi of x\vft '^^vsvt, K& %a^\4. i 
winga are removed, tbe fe^ife \» cavia^ ^c>^ V^ ^^^^n. ^'^ 



PAETREDGE AND GROUSE. 84t 




.1>one, scooping out the menTthought, and readily separating it from 

Jt8 bony attachments. If the legs are now to be removed, the fork is 

I taken out of the breast, and by sticking the prongs in the leg, with the 

knife laid flat against the side, they are readily lifted out of the 

sockets, and torn as it were from the body. The neck-bones are now 

^ jy twisted off with the fork, after which the breast is removed whole by 

^^^ cutting through the ribs with the knife, and then a separation of the 
^ back-bone in the middle divides the remaining part of the body into 

^^j the back and neck. The former of these may again have its side- 
^ bones easily removed with the knife, each containing a delicious morsel 

_,.j in a sort of spoon-shaped cavity, which is much prized by the gour- 






mand. 



Cold Roa.st Fowl. 

1291. When a cold roast fowl is to be served at a breakfast or 
fiupper party, it is often the custom to carve it up completely with a 
fiharp knife, and then put the joints together again, keeping them in 
their places by means of white ribbon tied in bows. This is a very 
good expedient in such a case, as it prevents the exhibition of bad 

' carving, and facilitates the rapid serving of the guests, which is 

' essential to success in such matters^ 



Gkese and Ducks. 

1292. Geese and ducks arc carved much on the same principle as 
the turkey and fowl, excepting that there .is very little meat on the 
merrythought, which is also more difficult to get off. In the goose 
the best parts will be found in the breast, which is, however, not so 
meaty as that of the turkey, and the slices are much more shallow. 
Ducks are cut in slices when large, or if small they are disjointed like 
fowls. If these are dressed with seasoning, it should not be distri- 
buted on the plates without ascertaining that it is agreeable to the 
tastes of the party to be served. 

Partridge and Groosb. 

1293. The partridge is so small that it will scarcely admit of dis- 
jointing, and it is usual to separate at once into the breast portion and 
the back and legs, which may readily be done vrithout cutting, by 
inserting the fork in the former, and raising it while depressing the 
latter. "When this is done the knife may Vift ^i^rrv^^ Vstv^B^»Kxa.■^6:^ 
through the breast, so as to divide it into \.^o ^q^-bX ^Q^tfCvs\^A^ ^^^ 

wJilcb the back and legs may be \ia\\e^ *m VV^ ^wsi&^«^- "^"^"^ 




which, if the partf T«qiure it, the plan of enrving slml 
tiled on the rout fowl mnBt be adopted. 

Woodcock. 
I29S. The woodcock U carved lihe tlie partridge, di: 
four, or gometiiDcB two portioos only, and giring out 
aamo way, equal!; to each plate ; the thigh ig obuuII' 
moit delicMe part of Uu« biid. 

1S96. The snipe is on1r large enough to divide ii 
back, with the legi. The toast la the sane as for the 

ProsoNS, Lakkb, Fuldfabsb, £c. 

1297. These are divided into two portions, as di 
partridge. 

1298. The hare is rather difficult to manage nicely 
is an old ona. When the carrer has a strong wr'ut, 
tageoas way is to carrj the knife along on each side ol 
all the wa; from the shoalder to the tail, and leariiii 
of back in the middle aboat half an inch wide, witb a t 



iB HOUSEKEEPING ACXi^OUNTS. 8i3 

g^before roasting. A portion of the forcemeat must of course accompany 

^g,each plate. The back is considered the best, then the legs, and lastly 

J. the shoulders, which^ however, some people prefer to any other part. 



CHAF. XXVIX—HOUSEKEEPING ACC0UNT8, AND TOTAL 
B, OfiDINARY EXPENDITURE. 

1* 1 299. The accounts in housekeeping should be kept with great accu- 
racy and circumstantiality, for many reasons, not the least of which 
is, that in most cases there are two people concerned, who sometimes 
may take different views of the result ; and, if a reference to details 

?' CAnnot be given, it is extremely difficult to show that the total expen- 

/' diture is correct. Besides this, unless there is an account kept against 

*' each tradesman, it is impossible to check him, and an error made 
either wilfully or by mistake, can neither be detected, nor remedied if 
surmised. No one, however, can possibly deny the advantage of keep- 
ing good accounts ; and the only objection consists in the trouble they 

' give, which will be small if the task is performed with regularity. 

^ 1300. The Best Mode of Eeepinq Accounts for a house is to 
have a daily entry book, in which every item of expenditure is put 

, down, either opposite a printed form or otherwise. Many people use 
printed books in which a list is given for each day, with ruled columns ; 
but this seems a very useless expense, as a plain ruled book is all that 
is necessary for the purpose. In my opinion, the weekly account 
should always be kept, and the daily one need not then be attempted ; 
but by putting down each item paid during the week senatini^ and 
then adding up the total, the week'is expenses are readily arrived at. 

1301. But, besides the Weekly Account, there should be & 
ledger account kept, in which each tradesman should be entered under 
a separate head. Thus, it is well to procure a small ledger, in which 
the whole book is "lettered *' — ^that is to say, it is divided into twenty- 
six portions, each having a letter of the alphabet assigned to it, and 
marked on the margin. In this the manager enters under the letter 
B the butcher's account as it is paid, so that at the end of a month, 
quarter, or year, she can tell the whole outlay in that article. Bread, 
also, will come under the same letter. Ush will of course be posted 
under the letter f, and so on. 

Total Annual Expenditcuii. 

1302, la this way there is an oppoitumly ol «xrvN\"^%^\. — •^'«J^'^^ 



344 ENGLISH COOKSBY. 



weekly expenditure, which will vaiy in some trifling degree; and, 
secondly, the total cost of each item set down in the table given at 
page 323. The plan is exceedingly simple, and only requires a know- 
ledge of compound addition to carry it out, as the entries are all made 
in tbe same amounts as are stated on the weekly bills, or those paid 
at longer or shorter intenrals. These may be either left open, to be 
added up at the end of the year, or they may be added np quarterly, 
or even monthly, if desired ; but less than the quarter seldom giyes an 
exact idea of the yearly cost of the house. 

Tables of Weights and Measures. 

1303. For the conyenience of reference, the following tables of mea- 
sures and weights are introduced, together with an account of the 
modes by which the exact capacity has been determined by Act of 
Parliament. 

1304. Measures are either — 1, of length ; 2, of surface ; 3, of solidity 
or capacity; 4, of force or gravity, or what is commonly called, 
weight ; 5, of angles ; 6, of time ; and their respective standards are, 
in Britain — a yard, square yard, or the 1-4840M of an acre, acuhicyard^ 
a gallon^ pound weighty degree^ minute. The British Act, for establishing 
uniform measures througliout the. realm, and called the Act of Uni- 
formity^ took effect January 1, 1826. The system thus established is 
called the Imperial system. Its rationale is as follows : — Take a pen- 
dulum which will vibrate seconds in London, on a level of the sea, in 
a vacuum, divide all that part thereof which lies between the axis of 
suspension and the centre of oscillation into 39,1393 equal parts; 
then will 10,000 of those parts be an imperial inch, twelve whereof 
make a foot, and thirty-six whereof make a yard. The standard 
yard is *' that distance between the centres of the two points in the 
gold studs in the straight brass rod, now in the custody of the 
Clerk of the House of Commons, whereon the words and figures 
'Standard Yard, 1760,* are engraved, which is declared to be the 
genuine standard of the measure of length called a yard ; and, 
as the expansibility of the metal would cause some variation in the 
length of the rod in difierent degrees of temperature, the Act deter- 
mines that the brass rod in question shall be of the temperature of 
62 degrees Fahrenheit. The measure is to be denominated the 

Imperial Standard Yard^ and to \>^l\v^ only standard whereby all other 
measures of lineal extension. shaW \ifc qotsv^wV^^'' "Wxwa, ^'^^^o.-^Kiw^ 

inch, the pole, the furlong, and tVi^ tiv\\^, *>^^^^ ^^^^ ^J^V'"'^'^ ^^'''^''*" 
tiou to the imperial staudaid t^^^ ^^ ^^^^ V.n^ VvxWv. X...^. > 



TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 3i5 

the yard measure in general use. The Act also makes provision for 
the restoration of the standard yard in case of loss, destruction, or 
defacement, hy a reference to an invariahle natural standard, which is 
to he that proportion which the yard bears to the length of a pendulum 
vibrating seconds of time, in the latitude of London, in a vacuum at 
the level of the sea ; which is found to be as thirty^six inches (the 
yard) to 39 '1393 (the pendulum) ; thus a sure means is established to 
supply the loss which might by possibility occur. Take a cube of one 
such inch of distilled water, at 62 degrees of temperature by Fahren- 
heit's thermometer, let this be weighed by any weight, and let such 
weight be divided into 252,458 equal parts, then will 1000 of such 
parts be a troy grain, and 7000 of those grains will be a pound avoir- 
dupois, the operation having been performed in air. Ten pounds such 
as those mentioned of distilled water, at 62 degrees of temperature, 
will be a gallon, which gallon will contain 277 cubic inches, and 
274- 1000th parts of another cubic inch. The standard pound is 
determined to be that standard pound troy weight made in the 
year 1758, in the custody of the Clerk of the House of Commons; 
such weight is to be denominated the Imperial Standard Troy 
Pound, and is to be '* the only standard measure of weight from 
which all other weights shall be derived, computed, and ascertained ; 
and one-twelfth part of the said troy pound is to be an ounce, and 
one-twentieth part of such ounce a pennyweight, and one-twenty- 
fourth part of such pennyweight a grain ; so that 5760 such grains 
shall be a pound troy, and 7000 such grains a pound avoirdupois, and 
one-sixteenth part of such ounce a drachm. If the standard pound 
shall be lost, destroyed, or defaced, the act directs that it shall be re- 
covered by reference to the weight of a cubic inch of water ; it having 
been ascertained that a cubic inch of distilled water, weighed in air by 
brass weights, at the temperature of 62 degrees Fahrenheit, and the baro- 
meter at thirty inches, is equal to 252*458 grains ; and as the standard 
troy pound contains 5760 such grains, it is therefore established that the 
original standard pound may be at any time recovered, by making 
another weight to bear the proportion just mentioned to a cubic inch 
of water. The standard gallon is determined by the Act to be such 
measure as shall contain ten pounds avoirdupois of distilled water 
weighed in air, at the temperature of 62 degrees Fahrenheit, and the 
barometer at thirty inches ; and such meaauxft \s ^^O^ax^^ \» '^'=5^ '^'^ 
Imperial Standard Gallon, and the unit and otA^ ^\,\i.\i^^^5y. ^ssa-asj^x^ ^"^^ 
capacity to be used, as well for wine, beer, «Xe, ft\>vc\X&,^'«^^^^^'^'^'^ 
liquids, as for dry goods not measured \>y \ieav^^ txv^^iS^s^^S 



S46 VSGLLBH OOOKBE-K 



Other measures are to be taken in parts or mnltiplea of the said in 
periai standard c^lon, the qoart being the fourth part of sach galloi 
and the pint one>eighth part, two such gallons making a peck, ei|^ 
snch colons a bnshel, and eight snch bnshels a quarter of com, c 
other dry goods not measured by heaped measure. The standard ft 
heaped measure for such things as are commonly sold by heaped mei 
sure, such as coal, culm, lime, fish, potatoes, fruit, &q^ ia to be '' th 
aforesaid bushel, containing eighty pounds avoirdupois of water, a 
aforesaid ; the same being made rouad, with a plain and even botton 
and being nineteen and a half inches from outside te- outside;" an 
goods thus sold by heaped measures are to be heaped ** in the form c 
a cone, such cone to be of the height of at least six inches, the outsid 
of the bnshel to be the extremity of the base of such cone." Thre 
such bushels are to be a sack, and tweWe snch sacks a chaldron. 

Stbiokbk Mbasubb. 

1305. The last-mentioned goods maybe sold either by the heape< 
measure, or by the standard weight, as- before mentioned ; but for ever 
other kind of goods not usually sold by heaped measure, which maj 
be sold or agreed for by measure, the same standard measure is to b< 
used, but the goods are not to be heaped, but stricken with a rounc 
stick or roller, straight, and of the same diameter from end to end 
Copies and models of the standard of length, weight, and measun 
are to be made and verified under the direction of the Treasury, aii( 
every county to be supplied with them for reference whenever re 
quired. Existing weights and measures may be used, being marke( 
so as to show the proportion they have to the standard measures anc 
weights. Tables of equalization of the weights are to be made by th( 
Treasury; tables, also, for the Customs and Excise, by which tb( 
duties will be altered so as to make them equal to what they are a 
l)resent, in consequence of the alterations in the weights and measures 

1306. Impbbial Measures of Capacitt for all liquids, and for al 
dry goods, except such as are comprised in the next division : — 







Ctabic In. nearly. 


4 gills - 


I pint 


=. 841 


2 pints B 


1 quart 


« m 


4 quarts => 


1 gallon 


ta 277J 


2 gallons <a 


Ipeck 


» fi54i 


8 gallons » 


1 bushel 


= 2218 1-5th 
Cubic ft. ncarlj'. 


8 bushels a 


1 quarter 


= m 


Aquaiterft ■■ 


lload 


- blk 



TABLES OP WEIGHTS AND MEASUHES. 347 



The four last denominations are used for dry goods onlj. For 
liquids, several denominations have been heretofore adopted — ^viz., for 
beer, the firkin, of nine gallons ; the kilderkin, of eighteen ; the barrel, 
of thirty-six ; the hogshead, of fifty-four ; and the butt, of one hundred 

I 

and eight gallons. These will probably continue to be used in prac- 
tice. For wine and sphrits, there are the anker, runlet, tierce, hogs- 
head, puncheon, pipe, butt, and tun ; but these may be considered 
rather as the names of the casks in which such commodities are im- 
ported, than as expressing any definite number of gallons. It is the 
practice to gauge all such vessels, and to charge them according to 
their actual contents. 

Imperial measure of capacity for coals, culm, lime, fish, potatoes, 
fruit, and other goods, commonly sold by heaped measure : — 



3 gallons 
8 gallons 


- 


Ipeck 
1 bashcl 


Cnbie in. nearly 
— 704 


3 bushels 
L2 sacks 


- 


1 sack 
1 chaldron 


CaUo ft. uearlj 

— 4 S-9th8 

- 581 



1 307. Avoirdupois Weight : — 



27 ll-33nd8 grs. 


*■ 


Idr. 




16 dr. 


ra 


loz. — 


4sn«rr. 


IGoz. 


^ 


tlb. = 


7000,. 


2»lb. 


= 


Iqr. 




4qr. 


-» 


icwt 




20cwt. 


s= 


ItOA 





This weight is used in almost all commercial transactions, and in 
tlie common dealings of life. 

1308^ Particular Weights belonging to this Ditision : — 

8 ponnds — 1 stone, used for meat and tLstu 

1 |)Ounds => 1 clove cwt qr. lb. 

14 pounds — 1 stone ■= o 14 

2 stone «ltod = 10 

6J tod =1 wey = 1 2 14 

2wey8 Blsack = 8-10 

12 sacks =lla8t = 89 

8 pounds = 1 clove f 

82 cloves = 1 wiy Tn CsseX. L "®^ '*" 

42 cloves = 1 wey In Suffolk. C cheese and 

86 pounds = 1 flrkhi. ) butter. 

Dinner and Evening PAB.Ti\iL%. 
1309, In giving parties, it is often t\i^ ea&^ XXi^X. «.\^T^<a:'t ^'vi^S^ ^ 

\ 



3i8 ENGLISH COOXKBT. 



f^loss, china, and plate is required than Ib possessed by the ladj of tiie 
house. To meet this demand, the vendors of glass and china let out 
services to the public ; and the silversmiths hare generallj in Isijp 
towns an assortment of plate at their senr ice. Chairs and tables nuij 
also be hired in most places. 

1310. Pastrycooks are in the habit of undertaking to suppljsll 
kinds of pastries and the other materials for refreshing the inward 
mnn, together with, if desired, plate, china, glass, table-oloths, 
and all the etceteras required. When, therefore, there is a deficiency 

these articles, or when the party is not likely to be often repeated, 
the ]>lan may be economical, as well as a relief in point of trouble and 
anxiety. A breakfast or supper party (without wine) may in this 
way be given at about 4s. to lOs. per head, the former sum finding a 
ver}' fi^ood array of dishes, and the latter being sufficient to insure a 
very splendid set out. The charge for dinner parties varies from 12s. 
to £1, Is. per head, according to the kind of dinner required. 

1311. In the present day it is too often the case that dinner parties^ 
as well as those given in the evening, are carried to such an extrava- 
pant extent that a serious outlay is involved, which may not always 
be agreeable to those invited, some of whom are neither able, nor, if 
able, willing to return such a display. It will, I believe, be found, 
that on the whole more i)lcasure is afforded if less expensive feasts are 
offered, and they are made more frequent, with a smaller number of 
Pfuests, so as to insure cordiality and comfort. No one should 
atteini)t in a dinner party to entertain more guests than the table and 
room will conveniently accommodate, or than the servants can wait 
upon without awkwardness ; nor should an expense be incurred wliich 
will produce an inconvenience to the giver, or entail it upon the 
receiver when it has to be returned. In this country people do not 
seem to feel happy until their stomachs are satiated; so that it is in ' 
vain to expect the continental receptions to attain popularity'. But 
still a comparatively plain dinner, if nicely cooked, will always be 
appreciated ; while a prettily set out, but inexpensive, supper, is ofun 
more attractive than a heavy, though costly, effort of tlie adjaceiit 
pastrycook, or of the home establishment. 

Cost. 

1312. The average cost o? w\. ^itoxioTOAR.'sA dx^xvw party for twelve 
persons, when of frequent occwxrcxve^, «ltv(V ^T.<i\wsv«<i ^^ ^^cv^ -wvca^^^scks. 
be taken at jGS. Many peop\e apeu^ ^.^^^ ^:v«.^^ ^"^^^ ia.Nv^x.V«^ i^^^^^v 



BILLS OF FAKE FOB PABTIES. 349 

''spread/' but for really agreeable and social dinner parties, the 
above is sufficient to procure what is wanted, calculating the residue 
as useful for the house, and as coming in to the ordinary expenditure. 
The actual dinner, it is true, costs more than the above sum ; but as 
the remains will feed the household for a week, the difference from 
the usual whole weekly expenditure will not be more than £5 or £6, 
unless every delicacy of the season is considered indispensable. At 
all events, it is a fact that many people, celebrated for the pleasantness 
of their dinner parties, confine themselves to the above sums. 



Bills of Fabe fob Parties. 

1813. The following bills of fare are introduced as a guide to those 
who are anxious to follow out the present fashion. The first may b^ 
considered as a specimen of the style adopted in the highest circles 
of London society, being in fact very similar to thos^ introduced at the 
^fery highest tables in the present year. The dessert may or may not be 
placed on the table, some people disliking the smell of fruit ; besides 
which the silver is, to a certain extent, hidden or eclipsed by it. The 
fish and top-dishes are usually carved on the side table, and handed 
round by the servants ; also the mutton, venison, chickens, game, &c. ; 
the tureens are left on the table till the puddings are put on. Many 
have only two sweets and two vegetables for corners ; the sweets being 
handed, while the puddings are being brought in by the servants. 
Others, again, merely deviate from the above plan by ornamenting 
the table with dried firuits and pyramids in addition to the usual dis- 
play of silver, and have the top dishes put on the table for a few 
seconds only, and then removed to be carved at the side-table, and 
the fresh fruit brought in after the cheese has been handed round. 
A third plan consists in having nothing but dessert on table, and a 
bill of fare to every two guests, the dishes being all from the first placed 
and carved on the side-tables, which saves much trouble in garnishing. 
Many who adopt this style have only three or four entriea for sixteen 
or eighteen guests. Even in all those cases where the dishes are 
placed on the table, flanks are seldom now introduced. Ice is becom- 
ing every year in greater request, both as pure ice placed in the 
glasses, and in the shape of water and cream-ices, as well as ice pud- 
dings. The two first of these are Introdue^d. «a 2i.^%xN. q\ ^'^ ^^isasetf^.^ 
and are banded round by the servanta \>efoT^ ^c^ \^«j^^ ^'^ x^issav^SiftR 
last being made a part of the usual B^ft^X.a. '^^^^ Kbs.Ji^^^^*^^^'^ ^ 



350 ENGLISH COOKERY. 



Breakfasts depends greatly upon the season of the year, omamentft- 
tion with natural flowers being the chief means employed for decora- 
tive pur})oses. Epergoes, vases, small floivering plants, and fraits in 
pots, are introduced un the table with a very light and elegant efifect 
The sweets are also thickly garnished with flowers, and sometimes 
wreaths are placed round them. This, however, depends so much 
upon the opportunities for obtaining choice flowers and fruit, and upon 
the taste of the parties concerned, that no minute directions can be 
here given. Every thing is cold, excepting tea, coffee, and chocolate, 
and tiie rolls and fancy breads, which are served hot. Sugar and 
cream are placed at short intervals round the table, so as to be within 
the reach of all the guests. Luncheons, in their arrangements, are 
very similar to breakfasts, except that they are not ornamented with 
flowers to the same extent ; and that, instead of tea and coffee, a hot 
top and bottom, and also a principal dish of sweets are introduced, 
with hot vegetables handed round. Tea and Coffee are served soon 
after dinner, the latter being introduced on the dinner-table for the 
gentlemen, and in the drawing-room it is handed round to the ladies. 
When tea is announced to the gentlemen, it is served both to them 
and tlie ladies in the drawing-room. Instead of dessert, a contincnial 
phm is sometimes now adopted in England, iu which finger-glasses 
are placed on the table before each person, and when they have been 
used tlicy are taken away, coffee being immediately handed round on 
a small tray, which is then left on the table, the servant retiring from 
the room. This plan is intended to supersede the English custom of 
sitting over the wine, as the gentlemen then leave the dining-room at 
once. It is, however, only suited to quiet family meetings, or those in 
which all are known to be averse to sitting long after dinner. For a 
large evening party, tea and coffee are made by the servants in a room 
devoted to the purpose, and partaken of by each guest before entering 
the reception-room, a long table or counter being generally put up, 
covered with a large table-cloth, and arranged with biscuits, small 
cakes, &c. Several Bills of Fare for Supper Parties are also 
shown in the following pages ; but they are now generally given 
without seats, counters being arranged on two sides of the room, with 
servants behind. Hot soup is always given, and chickens, cut up and 
tied as described at par. 1291. Ice is not placed on the counters, 
but supplied by the servants as wanted, the doors being opened at an 
early hour of the evening, and the guests going in whenever they wish 
for refrcshmeuti 



BILLS OF FAEE. 



351 



FAsmovABLB Bill <» Farb pob ▲ 

BU 0» FBOM 16 TO 28 COVBBS:— 

TntanoouBSB. 
Cloarsoap. 

Remove-JCldtkeiaa and tongne. 
ilea. Lamb cutleta 

(Vase of flomren.) 

(Epergne.) Fish. 

(Vase of flowers.) 

itbreads. Puretf sonp. 

/Remove— Saddle of matton. 

getables on side-table. Fish and re- 
>s carved on side-table. Covers ou 
iua. (See remarks above.) 

SECOND COUBSB. 

Partridgoa. 



FiUcts 
of duck. 



BBOONDOOUBSa 

Leamington pudding. 

Minoe plea. (Epergne.) Blancmange 

Brace of partridges. 



tables 
issed. 



Tureen 
taken off 
for souffl^ 

(Vase) 

(Epergne) 

(Vase.) 



Cream. 



Pastry 

or 

lobster salad. 



Grouse. 

(Cheese ibndn or pastry. 

Game carved on side-table. 

) Bill or Fabb fob a Dinneb or 

>VKB8 IK JANUABT OB I^BKUABY :— 
VIBST COUBSB. 

Jerusalem artichoke soup. 
iZeimwe— BoBed chickens. 

^e. (Epergne.) Curried rabbit 

Cutleta of soles. 

Aonove— Haanchof mnttoa 

I tfiblea manbed potatoes, brocoll, 
kale^ stewed vrl^ite. 



(c) Bill of Fabb fob 12 Covebs ni 
JTanuaiBT OB Fkbbuabt:— 

FIBST COUBSB. 



Hare soup. 



Aemooe-Sotled turkey. 
SUcw of tongue (yag©.) Chicken rarty. 



<Epergncf.) 

Pork steaks, with 
apple sauce in (Vase.) 
tbecenjtrfv 

Codfish. 



Sausages. 



1 



iiemoos— Sirloin of bee£ 

VegetaUes-^vbole potatoes, potato balls, 
JeruMlem artichokes, oa side-tabl& 



SEOOHD COUBSB. 

Plum pudding. 

JeUy (Vase.) TartletiL 

CBpergne.) 
Hlnceples (Vase.) 8ASUL<Na^M^ 



Zo2 



BILLS or rAItB. 



a) Box OF FAHI ffOB 10 Oft 18 COTXU 

nr jAinuxr om Fsuuust:— i 



Tartiot 
JtaNOM— Toxker, gAralihad wtth 



Stewed odexy. (Vim.) Oyst«rpatUeib 

Tongne. (Epergne.) 

liatton chofs, 



Stewed 
ox diaek. 



wUb 

tomxuo saaoe. 



Egf balli. (Vam^) 

jeemoM— HAimch of mutton. 

Vegetabkt— mashed poUtoef, mavhed 
corrota and torulpa, bxoooU, on aide-table. 

SKCOOfD 00UB8& 

rortrldgei. 

Remove— CaJbtae/t pudding; 

Janne mange. (YaBe.) mnoeplea^ 

Potato chips. (Epergne.) Lobster salad. 
Meringues. (Vase.) Italian cream. 

Hare. 

iRemove— Fondu. 

(e) Bill or Faks fob 8 Covbbs nr 
Mascu:^ 

Fntsrr coubss. 
Onion soup. 

ifemooe— BoUod calf *s head. 



Potato Ridding: 



Arrowroot rr \ Letnoo 

bumcmuuge. li.pf'anai cream. 



KaooaronL 



if) Bill or Fasb woa, U Contss or 
Maxch:— 



FIBST OOOBSBi 

Carrot loiqk 

Semem noDodcalTa bead. 
Stewed 



Chine. 



(Epergne.) Teal cutlets. 



Boiled whiting; 

iSembvtf-Xoin of mutt on. 

Vogetahles potaloti,eftWmg>»«igMi!»AaMift. 



Scotch 
coilops. 



(Va»e.) 
(Epexsne.) 

(Vase.) 

BrilL 



Mntton 
ctttlete. 



Eggs n\i 
spinacu. 



iRcmove— Boast fillet (^veaL 



Vegetables— potatoes, brooolL 



SSOOHD COUBa& 



Pound puddlnga 



Itflllan 
cheese. 



Open tart 



\ 



'^•■••^ cbeese^salies- 



(Epergne.) 



CVaMi) OoOincreair. 



QniBAa tofWkk 



^ILLS OF FARE. 



353 



r) Bill op Fabh vob 16 ob 18 Covxbs 

iARCH:— 

FUC8T 00T7BSE. 

White soap. 

AemoM— Stowed eds. 

.fiemove— Stewed breast of real 



I HI ■ ■ !■ I 



8S00KB OOOUBS. 



Fnunriapnfib. 



amfcusfard. (EPMgnc) 



Stewed 
pear& 



jatttea. (Yase.) 
(Epergne.) 



Scalloped 
muttoo. 



White 



Soiled soles, garnished with smelts. 

iZ^move— Saddle of mutton. 

itables — potatoes, Jemsalem artl- 
okea, Brussels sprouts, on side-tableu 

SECOND GODBSB. 

Boast pigeons. 
Chester pudding. 



RamakinsL 



(€) Bm. or Fabb fob 12 Coviat is 
Afbil ob ^Iat :~ 



FIB8T OOT7B8B. 



French soup. 



iy 



innangOi 



(Epergne.) 
(Vase.) 



Cake 
and custard. 



PcarfowL 
/2«mov6— Bhubarb tart 



Face. 



.fiemovtf— Boiled fillet of veal, 
with white sauce. 



(Vase.) Potetoe balla 



(Epergne.) 



Bm. ov Fabb fob 8 Ck>vzB8 m 
c OB Mat :— 

FIB8T OOUBSB. 

DIear gravy soup with asparigtis. 

JUmove—BoHeA leg of lamb, 
outlets. (Epergne.) Lamb's try. 
Fried soles, 
iiemote— Stewed bee£ 

sU)le3--yoaB/f rotatoee, asparagus, on 
Btde-table. 



Bissolea. (Vase.) Sweetbreads. 



Stowed lampcniL 



Remove— Qaaxia of lambu 



Vegetables— yoong potatoes, aspamgna, 
cauliflower, on side-table. 



SBCOMD 00UB8B. 

Selkirk puddings; 



Solid 
syllabub. 



Stewed 

Iformandy 

pippins. 



rVAM.^ Potatoe 

VTtwo.^ cheese-cakes 



(Epergne.) 



Z5i 



BILLS OF FARE. 



0) BlLX.0VFA>B»<»16OBl8C0YSMnr 

AnuL OB Mat:— 

ran oouas^ 

Mock-tnrtte ion]k 

/tanoM- Stewed calf's head. 

Curried 



Kiawlei. 



Lobtter 
patUee. 



(VaM.) 

(Epeifne.) 

nr mm^ \ Sweetbreads, 
yimmcf itewed brovrn. 

Salmon. 
Bemov—Qauta of lamb. 



Vogetables-jronng potatoes, asparagns, 
salad and ham, on slde-tabl& 



SMOHD OOUBS& 

Asparagus. 
.Aemooe— Marlborough pudding. 
Trifle. (Vase.) Orange JcUy. 

Open tart (Epergne.) ap?Stort 



Sweetbreads, 
done white. 



(Jiteaii de 
rommes. 



O^'ase.) 



Stone 
cream. 



Three spring clilckens. 



(k) Bill of Fake fob 8 Covers in June 
OB Jdly :— 

FIB8T COUBSB. 

Oreen pea>-soup. 
Jiemove—Ho&st dacks. 



(I) Bill or Fabx job li Covns isr 
Jtnix OB JcLT :— 

VIBST OOUBIB. 

Clear gravy soap, with thin pieces ofcsrrot 
and FraoGh beans cut into it 

•fianoes-SoOed oonpla of chi^ens. 

Tmgae, (Yase.) Flshpattisa 

(Epergne.) 

(Yase.) Yeal cutlets. 
Stewed lampreys. 
JZonooe— Quarter of Iamb. 

Vegetablea-potatoes, French beans, p«i^ 
salad, on side-table. 



SEGOHD OOtTBSB. 

Teap-cup puddings. 
Lemon Jelly. (Vase.) 

(Epergne.) 

(Vase.) 

Stewed pigeons. 



Whipped 
cream. 



Stewed 
blackcapa 



Cake and 
custard. 



Lnmb 
cutlets. 



Beans and 
bacon. 



(Epergne.) 

Stewed lampems. 

Remove— Fillet of real. 

Vegetables— young potatoes, peas, salad, 
on side-table. 

SBOONI) OOXJBSB. 

Souffle pudding. 

Chocolate fvnnrm(^\ White clouted 

cream. (Epergne.) ^^^^^ 

Qreen currant tart 



(OT) Bill of Fajik fob 16 ob 18 Covkba 
IN June ob Jolt :— 

FIRST CODBSE. 

White soup with maccaronL 
Remove— '"Bo^IqA breast of veal, done wlUte. 



Stewed rvnaA^ Ham, gamlsbed 

cauliflower. v »««>«.; with greens. 



Rabbit 
curry. 



(Epergne) C?J.<^i*!; 



wiih rice. 



Stewed 
cucumbers. 



Lamb chops, 
with potatoes in (Vase.) 
the centre. 

Salmon. 

/{^move— Venison. 



Vegetables— potatoes, peas, salad, on 
side-table^ 



BILLS 09 FABE. 



855 



glOORD 0OUB8B. 

Pcaa. 



ie*>eny 
boL 



(Vase.) 



Calf*s-feet 
Jelly. 



(Epergne.) cheesScaket. 



incmange, tVatuL\ ^Whipped 
strawberry v'"*/ fiuit cream. 



JTOWTOOt 

incman: 
straw! 
cream. 



Coapleofdacka. 



Cmryof 
TaU>lt8. 



I Bill of Fakk fob 8 Covbb8 Cf 
usT OB Skftkubbb:— 

FIBST GOUBSB. 

Brown soap. 



icmove— Matton cntlets, with stewed 
mnshrooms in the middleu 



sue. 



(Epergne.) 



Soles. 



Vegetable 
marrow.* 



(0) Bill of Fabb fob ,12 Ootebs in 
a.ugust ob 8bpib1cbbb :— 

FIBffI 00UB8B. 

White Bonp. 
RemoM'-VvwiM. 

(Vaae.) 
Ham. CEpergne.) 

(Vase.) 

Cod. 

iZemooe-Saddle of mutton. 

Vegetables— potatoes, mashed Tegetalde 
marrows, on side-table. 

SEOOKD OOUBSB. 

Lemon apple podding. 

CVase.) 

JeUy. (Epergne.) Tipsy cak& 

(Vase.) 

Brace of b!rd& 



jR«move— Fillet of veaL 

It In slices lengthways, put on a toast, 
and white sauce poured oyer. 

egetablee— potatoes, French beans, 
salad, on side-tableu 



SBOOND C0T7BSB. 

Sweet omelet 



fle. (Epergne.) 



Smce of tarda. 



Tartlets. 



(p) Bill of Fabb fob 16 OB 18 Govna 
IN August ob Septbmbeb:— 

FIB8T OOUBSB. 

Mock-tnrtle soup. 
Bemove— Chickens. 



Lobster 

pattiea, 



(Vase.) 

(Epergne.) 
Veal cutlets. (Vaae.) 

Turbot 
Remove-JSeAotrmiaoa. 



Lambcutleta, 

with stewed 

beana in centre. 



(^uiila 



\ 






856 



BILLB OPFABB. 



Jell/. 



Stone 



Blrd& 

(VaM.) 
^pergiM.) 

(Yam.) 

Lereretflk 



Cboese-cake. 



Apple cake, 
wiui ciutard. 



(7) Bnx or Fakb foe 8 Ck>yzBS di 
OciuBBB obNoyembui:— . 

fIBSt OOUBSB. 

Venniodli loap. 
^BefAOM— Teal catleta, irtilte. 



Harrlco 

muiton. 



(Epergne.) 



Minced beo£ 

with wall of 

potatoes. 



Brin. 
iEeanove— Boast chidcou. 



Vc;;ctables— potatoes and beans on 
side- table. 



SECOND COURSE. 

Pancakes. 



L^he cr6ma. (Epergne.) 
Ilare. 



Apple tart 






(r) Bill of Fasb for 13 Coykgs is 
October or Noveiiber:— 

first course. 
Ox-tail soup. 

/(«iK>r«—Ha8lied calf's head. 

(Vase.) 

t'liickena. (Epergne.) Tongae. 

(Vase.) 

Ciod.' 

iZ^move— Haunch of muiton. 

Kegetablef— potatoea, vegetable maTr«Nv, 
on gldd-tabie. 



saooaiD ooDBab 

Mariborongh pudding; 
(Vase.) 

Lein<m cream. (Epergne) fastiy. 

(Vase;) 

(Tbarlotte russe. Batifla cream. 

Hare. 
(«) Bnx. OF Fabs fob 16 ob 18 Cotsbs 

or OCIOBKB ASD NOYBMBBB:— • 
FIRST C0CB8K. 

UEoUigatawny soap. 

Bemove—CtiLdkew^ with tongae in tlie 
contreu 

Oyster patties. (Vase.) Beef oliros. 

(Epergne.) 
Stewed onions. (Vase.) Sweetbreadi 

Turbot 
Remove— Hitloln of bee£ 

Vegetables— beans, potatoes, &c on side 
table. 

S£COKD OOCRSS. 

Pheasant, 
^emotv— Souffld 

(Vase.) 

Jaone mange. Lemon cheese-cakes. 

(Epergne.) 

Tarticts Sir Walter Scott's 

wassail bonri. 



BILLS OF FARK, Z57 


Bill of Fabx fob 8 Coysbs nr Db- 

tEB:~ - 

nasi 00TIB8B. 

Jenualem soapk 
Remove-^oSM. leg of mntton. 


(«J Bm. OF FAXB fob 16 OB 18 COVBBS 

nr DBCBaiBEBs— 

Clear soupw 
Remove— TvAgj' 



it entry. (Epetgne.) Yeal ciiUet& 

BriU. 

Bemove—SieweAheet 

^egetables-^tatoes, 8e»-kale, on 
side-table. 

SBCOXD CODBSB. 

Adelaide paddings. 
9 Jelly. (Epergne.) Solid costard. 
Grouse. 

Bill of Fabb fob 12 Ck>VBBS in 
ubeb:— , 

FIBST C0rB8& 

Carrot sonp. 
Remove— TuvYuey, 



Harrloo 
mntton. 



Vol an vent 

of 

Ix>b6ter. 



(Vase.) 
(Epergne.) 

(Vase.) 



Stewed 
oeieiy. 



Rase 



Cod. 

ifemove-^Boast bee£ 

Vegctalileft— potatoes, broooU, on side-table. 



SSOOSD CODBSB. 

Woodcocks. 
.Remove— Plnm pndding: 

(Vase.) 

(Epergne.) 



Mince 
pies. 



Italian 
cheese. 



c chops, 
potatoes 
> middle. 



(Vase.) 
(Epergne.) 



Beef-steaks 



Stewed 
mushrooms. 



(Vase.) 

Cod. 

/tonope— Hannch of mntton. 

tables— potato balls, brocoll, Jemsalem 
artichokes, on side-table. 



SXCOND CODBSB. 

(Vase.) 
(Epergne.) 
(Vase.) Blancmange. 
BaiB 



u 



Mince 
pies. 



Apple tart. 
Lemon spongei (Vase.) flUed np with 

cnstard. 

Brace of pheasants. 



LCSCHBOW FOB 40 OB M. 

Turkey. 
Pastry. Cream. 

Blancmange. 
Partridges. Oyster patties. 

Pickled salmon. 

Peaches. Orapeib 

Pheasants. (Epergne.) Ham. 

GrapesL Kectarfnes. 

Lobster salad. 
Plgeon-piOi Partridges. 

Jannemange. 

Jtifly. ^fc*«K» 



358 VSLSA OT FAnc 



WtoDora BsBAKFAflr voB 40^ nr Jult. 



n 



Chicken pie (nlaed). P | 



I 



I I 



t 



i I I 



I 



(Flowen.) 



Vtanej bread. "g 



nonflgroomb 



I 



OQ 



I 



I 

^ Strawberries. 




I 



c* 






en C 



CAKE ^ E 

(iaahape). -S S 



1 
(Vase of flowers.) 



S J6 o 



:s 






■2 jj 



Strawberriea 

i £' 

I O'^ase of flowers.) § ^ 

MB i; eq 

'^ Cberriea. C _i ^ 

41 



i t, SPONGECAKE g 5 

^ ^ d (In shape). i £ ^ 

.. .^ Marmalade. ^d a 



Fancy bread. S " 



•a « "Z " ^ 

I t (Flowers.) | . 

.^ a 11 



Tea, coffee, aaCLe\ioco\aXftV3kaxkaft<i.TOi\sai.^ 



BILLS OF FARE. 



359 



8TAai>>IJ7 SCFPXB VOS TBOM 00 TO 100, ABRAKQKD ON TWO COTniTEBS, WITH 

SxBTAinB bbhuo). 



-s 



I 



I 

i 
.3 



i 

3 



Pheasant. 



(Yase of flowers.) 



Apple trifle. 



Lobster salad. 



S 



o 



Pickled salmon. 



Solid syQabal). 



(Vase of flowers.) 



Sayoioy pie. 



i 

I 



I 



a 






I 
I 



I 



1 



Scalloped oysters. 



(Vase of flowers.) 



Uporcakei 



Tongue. 



I 



S 



I 



Pheasants. 



Trifle. 



(Ytise of flowers.) 



Potted meat 
sandwifihea. 



•s 



i 

a 



& 



I 



1 



& 



k 



VI ofeagtiirda, creams, and ielllea to be v\ai«aL«toouV\S»Na^^%^*^*^^®^ ^ 



3G0 



BILLS OF FABEL 



Fumi Savouxt SrNDOwii Suvrss vob 0Ol 



FheMaata. 



4S 



t 



Cheetc-cakea. 



4) 






t 



I 



Veal pattlif. 



Tongao. 



▲ bam, ganiUhed irUli paste. 



Stoae cream. 



Potted ahxliDpai 



(Epergne witb flpwen.) 



Potted lotater. 



Blancnumgei 



Saronry pie. 



Tongue. 



Oyster pattlea 



2 



i I 



«4 

I 



Tartlets. 



Partridges. 



Fill the vacant spaces of the table with jelly In glasses, custards or whipped 

cream, raspberry, lemon, Ac, Ac 

Srr-DOVN ScPFXR for 12. 



Potted sbiimps. 



Sponge cake. 



Mixed biscuits. 



Glasses of Jellies 
and cream. 



t 



« 



s 

CQ 
(0 



S 



N 
O 

O 



3 



! 



o 



Glasses of Jellies 
and cream* 



XttooD cnamfi 






'SQk\X^-'V&R«X.<sss3^&:4et£Q«k 



INDEX. 



A 

Page 
Abstinence ftom the reqaisite quantity 

of food, an abnse. 10 

Aocoants of housekeeping ... 843 et seq. 

Adelaide Puddings] „. 247 

Adults, average amount of tood required 

by 12,18 

A-la-mode beef, preparation of 118 

Albion Pudding 247 

Alcohol, its use and abuse iu the diges- 
tive processes ... •• ••• ... ••• ••• 4 

Almond Cheesecakes 221 

Almond Cream 268 

Almond Custard 278 

Anchovy Butter, preparation of 182 

Anchovy Toast, receipts for 296 

Apple and Custard cream 269 

Apple and Orange tart mixed 217 

Apple Charlotte 2S8 

Apple Cheesecakes. 221 

Apple Chocolate 800 

Apple Dumplings, 202; small ones 252 

Apple Fool 265 

Apple Fritters 257 

Apple Jellies. 279 

Apple Posset 300 

Apple Puddtaig 224 

Apple Pudding, baked. 225 

Apple Puffs 222 

i^pple Sauce for goose and roast pork ... ins 

Apple Snow 267 

Apple SouflB^ 259 

Apple Sponge 267 

Apple Tart, an ordinary one. 216 

Apple Trifle 268, 270 

Apple Water for invalids 822 

Apples, preparation of, by keeping, 81; 
meringued, 299; k I'Anglaiae, tft.; k 
rAmericaine, ib.; various modes of 
stewing, baking, and roasting ... 282, 285 

Apricot Cakes, trellised 222 

Apricot Tart. 218 

April, domestic bills of fare for, 829. 831; 
list of articles in season, 832; bills of 

fare /br dinner partiea in 853,8ff4 

Anxfwroot Blancmange „, ...272 

Anowjvot Padding ^ .^ ^, 



Arrowroot Sauce for pnddlngp. m> 258 

Artichokes, preparations of, by keeping, 
82; white soup of, 92; directions for 

dressing 188 

Asparagus, different preparations of ^ 18? 
Asparagus Soup, directions for making. 88 
August, domestic bills of fare for, 880, 
881 ; list of artides in season, 832; bills 

of fare for dinner parties in 885 

Avoirdupois Weight 847 

Azotized compounds of our food 8, 5 



B 



Back Kitchen, arrangements of the, 25; 

fittings, and their prices. 88 

Bacon, quantity of; for children, 13 ; di* 

rections for cooking Iti 

Bain-marie, use of the. 157 

Baker's Bread, comparative value of 

nutritive matter in 11, 12 

Bnkeweil Pudding 241 

Baking of animal food, 82 et seq. {See 

BOASTDTO.) 

Bakingof fish, 61; ^fpiko or bream ... 62 

Balloon Pudding 244 

Barberry Tart 218 

Barford Pudding 248 

BfA'loy, its relative proportions of az<H 

tized and non-azotized substances ... 5 
Barley Broth, without meat, for tlie 

poor man's table 810 

Barley Pudding 296 

Barley Sugar, receipts for 298 

Barm Crust, receipts tor. .199 

Basting, directions for. 44 

Basting-ladle for roasting 34 

Bath Pudding 241 

Batter Pudding with fruit, 226; receipts 

for, 227; without eggs... 22X 

Beans^ comvsLtsXVH^ -sttNafc ^"S. xsnn.'^?**^*^ 

mattfcT \Ti, W "Va*, w«t%wi '^«»^'^'^i;^^ 

quVreA lot s.Axx\\*, W, ^««*Jt;^t\. 



862 



IKDEZ. 



Pag* 
BmT, Its relmtlre proportloni of azotlzed 
and non-asotlz«d ratMUnoes, ft, 6; the 
▼ariont modM of cooking, 114— 12S; 
itMUtIng, 114; boiling. Hi, 117; stew- 
ing, 115— ISl ; • wholeeome method of 
aooklng, US; fillet of stewed, 118; k 
la mode, A.; fHeandeaii, collops, 
rolled, nried, Ac, 119 et uq. ; tryUxg or 
broiling of ISl, 129; rolnoed, 157, 158; 
hashed, 158; en miroton, 159; how to 
drees the Inside of a cold sirloin of, ib. ; 
fHcassee of cold roan beef, ib. ; dif- 
ferent modes of dressing when cold, 
150, 169; scalloped, 161 ; stewed with 
peas, ib.; pottlnff of, 179; sirloin ot, 
how to treat economically, 8S8; di- 
rections for canrlug a sirloin oC 838, 
or the mmp, H-bone, round, and iu- 

ftarior Joints 838 

Ileef-bouilll, preparation of 117 

Beefcakes, preparation of 159 

Beef Kidney, flying of, 128; for the 

poor man's table 807 

Beef-liver, presenration of for gravy ... 96 
Beef-olives, preparation of ... ... ... 159 

Beef Palates, stewed 120 

Beer Pie 205 

Beef Robert 119 

Beef Sausages, receipts for 112,145 

Beef-steak, directions for stowing. 116 

Beef-steak Pie 2<)6 

Beef-steak Puddintjs 218 

Beef-steaks, fryl n sr or broiling of.. ... 1 21 

Beef Stew, preparation of 116 

Beef Tea for invalids, difTercnt kinds of. 31.5 

Beer Caudle for invalids 319 

Beet root, different preparations of 185, 186 

Bills of fare. (See Fare.) 

Bird's nest, as a comer dish ... ... 

Biscuit Pudding 

Black Currant Drink, for invalids... 

Black Currant Tart 

Black Puddinp«, 110 ; directions for 

making, 112, 145 

Blackberry Tart 

Blanc-mange, receipts for diffcrcntkinds 

of 27letseq 

Bloaters, curing of 61 

Boiled Meats, broth to be eaten with ... 

Boilers, prices of 

Boiling of animal food, 46 et seq. ; nten- 
sils for, and general principles of, 47 ; 
trussing for, 49; directions for, 50; fish, 
06 et seq. ; salmon and salmon trout, 
68 ; sea-fish, 65 et seq. ; shell-flsb, 70 
et seq. ; butcher's meat, <fec., ... 114 et seq 
Boilings of the neck, to be saved for the 

poor »[\\ 

Bologna Sausages, preparntlon of ... lu 

Bon/og, direction3 for ^ 

Bowei Complaints, mutton custatA tor 
BnUn CaJces, making of 



169 
238 
322 
217 

147 
218 



7 
24 



. *•• ••• 



••• 




Braising Of meats, Ac. 

Brandy Cream 

Brandy Gruel, for inrallds 

Bread, extensive use oi; 4, 5; eoi 
tive Talne of nutritive matter 
different kinds ot 11, IS; a' 
amodnt of required by adaits 

Bread, fHed, application of 

Bread and Apple PuddUig ... 

Bread and Butter Padding 

Bread and Milk, preparation uf 

Bread and Rice Padding 

Bread DampUngs 

Bread Fritters 

Bread Paddings, boiled, 280; bake 
directions for making little ones 

Bread Sauce, preparation of; la 
roast bare 

Breakfast Cake, for the poor 
table. 

Breakfast Dish of Fish 

Brcakfkst Parties, 348,854; costs c 
849; for weddings 

Bream, baking of 

Breast of Mutton, grilling of ... 

Breast of Veal, different modes of 
■ng... ... .M ... ... ... ,,, 1^ 

Brill, boiling and frying of, es ; 
tions for carving... , 

Brisket of Beef, directions for ste 

Urocoli, dressing of 

Broiling of animal food, 51, 54; g< 
directions for, 65; offish, 58; c 
mon, 63; of mackerel 

Broth, to be taken with boiled n 
7; general directions for makin 
ferent kinds of, 74, 94; for the 
man's table, 310; for invalids ... 

Brown Sauce for Fish 

Browning for Soups and Gravies 

Bubble and Squeak, preparation oi 

Buck-wheat, its relative proportic 
azotizod and non-azotized substs 

Bullace Tarts 

Bullock's Heart, directions for coo 

Bullock's Liver, fried with potato< 
the poor man's table, 306; boiled 
rice 

Burning, prevention of, by pap< 
paste, iu roasting 

Burnt Cream Sauce 

Butcher's Meat, comparative Tal 
nutritive matter in, 11, 12; direc 
for cooking the different kinds of 

Butler, carving by the, in large pa 

Butter, average amount require 
adults, 12; use of, in frying, 68 
fetwxtmethods of melting, 105; > 

V\\\w%ft ., 

"RwAfeteATS'^^^ 



INDEX* 



seH^ 



c 

Page 
Cabbage, average amonnt required ft>r 
adults, 18; an e;coellent way of boil- 
ing 190 

Cabbages, comparative vaiae of nutri- 
tive matter in 11,12 

Cabinet Padding 288 

Cake Trifle 270 

CalieSifbr wedding breakfast 858 

Cairs fbot, stewing of, 138; drying of .. 189 

Calf's foot Jelly 278 

Calf's Head, directions for stewing, 
boiling, hashing and rolling, 137, 138, 
185; made into Jelly, 166 ; stewed as a 
comer dish. 170; directions for carving 839 
Cairs Head Pie, 210; a plain one ... 210 
Cairs Liver, Ibr the poor man's table 807 

Calves-Foot Pudding 247 

Capacity, imperial measures of ... 846, 847 

Caper Sauce, preparations of 105 

Carp, dressing of, 60; an excellent 

sauce for 101 

Carrier Sauce for mutton 104 

Carrot Pudding, 235; different receipts 

for 23 

Carrot Soup, directions for making, 87; 

with meat, t&. ; with cream 88 

Carrots, comparative value of nutritive 
matter In, 11, 12; the various modes 

of cooking 185 

Carving, general principles of, 838, 334; 
directions for carving flsh, 835,836; 
Joints, 336-838 ; poultry and game 389-842 

Caudle, for invalids 819 

Cauliflowers, different ways of dress- 
ing 189 

Cecils, dressing of 160 

Celery, stewing of 186 

Chantilly Cake 270 

Charlotte Russe 276 

Chartreuse de pommes 287 

Cheese, average amount required by 
Adults, 12, 13; fondu of, prepared as 
• comer dish, 177, 178 ; potted, toasted, 

or melted, 295, 296; fingers of 296 

Cheese Pudding ^ ... 249 

Cheesecakes, 219; various kinds of 220, 222 

Cheltenham Pudding 239 

Chemical composition of solid food ... 2 

Cherry Jelly 281 

Cheshire Pudding (excellent) 249 

Chester Pudding 239 

Chestnuts, to roast fur dessert. 297 

Chicken, cold hash of, 163; pottlntr of, 
with ham, 180; directions for carving 340 

Chicken and Tomato 148 

Chicken Curry, different preparations 

of, as comer dishes 178 

Chicken Cutlets 149 

Chicken Fte, preparationa of, 2H6, 207, 212 
Cblckena, roasting ofi nj; boiling of, 



P«i« 
148; stewing of, 149; made into Jelly, 
166; scallop of, ib.j minced, ib.; how 
to Aicassee, 167 ; pie made flrom, ib; 
how to devil, ib.f croquette of, as a 

corner dish 171 

Cliildren, cheap food for 13 

Children's Pudding 282 

Chocolate for invalids 317 

Chocolate Blancmange 272 

Chocolate Cream 266 

Chocolate Padding 249 < 

Chops, mutton, cooking of 127 

Cider Cups, preparation of. 300 

Cinder Sifters, patented by Kent, 26; 

prices of 27 

Citron Puddings 243 

Claret, mulling of 820 

Clarifying of dripping, lard, and suet ... 58 

Cleanliness essential in cooking 20 

Closets required by the cook, 28; price 

offlxing 24 

Clouted Cream 264 

Coal cellars, arrangements of 27 

Cockades, garnished 222 

Cocoa, Its general use as a nutritious 

Rlllllcllli ••• ••• ••• ■•- ••• vat ••• ••• O 

Cocoa Blancmange 272 

Cod-flsh, boiling, flying, Ac 66, 67 

Codiln Cream 268 

Codlln Tart 217 

Codlins, how to scald 283 

Cod Pie, directions for making. 67 

Codsonnds, boiled, 67; dressed to look 
like small chickens, ib. ; broiled, ib. ; en 

ragout 68 

Cod's Head and Shoulders, directions 

for carving 884 

Coffee, its general use as a nutritious 
aliment, 8; average amount re- 
quired by adults >, 12 

Coffee Creams. 267 

Cold Cup, for drinking 300 

Cold Meat, horseradish sauce for 104 

Collaring Salmon 64 

College Puddings, and Puffs 242 

CollopsofBeef 119 

Colouring to stain Creams and Jollies... 261 
Columbus Eggs preserved as a corner 

dish 178 

Confectionery, various receipts for 297—300 
Consumption, soothing nourishment In 

817; Mutton Custard for 318 

Cook, general utensils and kitchen 
duties of the, 16 et *eq. ; nice sense of 
taste requisite for the, 19 ; her account 
book, 20; watchfulness necessary on 

her part 8L 

CooKBBT, and Cooias^i, 'all \>a&N«^«^^ 

How lo cWi>iV\.A^\ ^-^^"^ «c«cve.\xv^ 



864 



DffBEZ. 



Tmge 
plos usunlly the lame, 16; the cook, 
and her gciK-ml utensils, 16—19; cleau- 
Uness, TtfDtilatloo, and lighting necee- 
■aiy, SU; the kitchen and its appor- 
tenances, SI; pre|»aration of Ibod by 
kei'pin^ S8 ; principles of roasting and 
baking, 33; utonsUs for, 83; spitting 
ami trus«ing, 85; drawing game or 
|M)uitry, 36; trussing and roaaUng, S7, 
88; directions for boning and Joint- 
iiiir, 39; general management of the 
flre, 3D, 40; general principles of roaat- 
liii;, 41 ; makmg Rravy, basting, and 
drvdglnff, 44; larking, 45; oven-roast- 
ing, 4<) ; boiling, stcuming, and stew- 
ing, 4ti et J<7.; frying, broiling, Ac., 
51; cooking of fish, 56 et *eq.; soup- 
making, soups, and broths, 74; gravies, 
saucer, force-meats, and sausages, 94 ; 
cooking of raw butcher's meat, 113; 
sausa;:c8, black-puddings, Ssc^ 145; 
of poultry, 147—156 ; warmed up moat, 
^Ec., 156—181; vegetables, 18S— 194; 
Sjila.lv, 1U5; pastry, 198; savoury pies, 
Jrc, l!()5— 214; sweet pastry, 816; pud- 
diiiKH, 224— S53; pancakes, Ac^ 254; 
crcaiit!*, custards, <fec, 260; French 
cookery as compared with the £ng- 
Ibli school, 287; French terms of, 290; 
misi (lliuioou!* receipts for, 291 etseq.; 
for i\w. poor, ."01; ditrerent kinds of 
cheap focd suitable to the poor man, 
Co;i_.;(),' ; and economical modes of 
cooking', 313 — 314; cooking for Invalids, 

814 et aeq. 
Corner dishes, or entrdes, ... 169 et seq. 

CottiiRc-ranges, prices of 25 

Cow-heel, preparation of, 122; for tho 
poor man's table, 808; baked in milk 

for Invalids „. 317 

Crabs, dressing of 72 

Cradlc-splt, for large kinds of poultry 85 

Cranberry Tart 218 

Cranberry Water, for Invalids 821 

Cray-flsli, dlflTcrent modes of dressing 70, 71 
Cray-fish Soup, directions for making 85 

Cream Cocoa-nut Pudding 248 

Cream Fritters 258 

Cream Pancakes , 250 

Creamed Ice '. 276 

Creams, directions for making the dif- 
ferent kinds of, 2C0— 27C ; colourinq; of 2G1 

Crfemo h. la Vanilla 271 

Crimp Cod 60 

Crisp Pastry 223 

Croquottos, various preparations of, as 

corner dishes 170,171 

C'fo^jiieffes of liObster 72 

Crumb Pudding, for tho use of l\\o v«>ot mi, 
Cmtt, di/rvrent kinds of, 190, 200; a suet 

o/jo for pies or puddings '^^^ 

CucaiuUis, dircclious for stewing 



Fa«t 
Cunis, or brown gravy ^ ^ «. ^ 97 
Cumberland Pudding ». ^. .„ ... 248 

Cap Bice Puddings ... a44 

Curd PnfliB, or Pnddiugs.^ ... ... ^251 

Cords and Cream, preparatioua of ... ... 898 

Cords and Wbcy, Gallino ^ ... ... 298 

Corrant Dumplings .» .^ ... «. ... 2S3 

Corrant Cruel, for invalids ...... ... 819 

Corrant Rice Pudding ............... 228 

Currant Sauce, preparatioD of ... ^ luS 

Currant Tarts ^ ^ ... ... .« 2IT 

Currant Water, for invalids ...... ... 322 

Curry. dilTerent preiiorations o^ as cor- 
ner dishes... ... ... ... ... ... 17»-I74 

Curry of Cod ... ... ««.........«. 68 

Currying Salmon « «. 64 

Currying Pudding ... ... ... ... .« 2» 

Custards, directions for malUng the dif> 

fcrent kinds of .„ ...276-S78 

Cutlets of flsli, cooking ot, 68; ofmutr 
ton, 125, 127; of iamb, 129; of veal, ISI, 

132, 140 ; of sweetbreads 140 

Cutlets and Steaks as comer dishes ... 169 



D 



Dace, dressing of 60 

Damson Tarts 218 

Dandelions, directions for boiling IIH 

December, domestic bills of fare for, 

aw, 332; list of articles in season, 

333; bills of fare for dinner parties in 357 

Devonshire Cheesecakes 223 

Diet of the navy, 1, 2 ; nutritive proper- 
ties of different articles, 5, & {See 

Food, Ac.) 

Digester for soup-making 75 

Digestion, use and abuse of alcohol for 

promoting. 4 

Dinner parties, 347, 348; cost of 343; 

bills of fare for, in different months 

of the year... 854—357 

Dredjsing, directions for 44 

Dressers required by the cook, 23 ; price 

offlxing 24 

Dressing of fish 58 

Drinks for invalids 821,322 

Dripping, average amount required for 

adults, 18; directions for clarifying ... 53 
Dripping-pan, for roasting, 34; use of 

the 46 

Drops, of the confectioners 297, 298 

Duck Pie 206 

Ducks, trussing, spiUing. and roasting 

of, 38, 150; trussing of, for boiling, 49; 

stuffing for, 109; stewing of, 150, 151; 

fricassee of 151 

yl>>vHv\\vcvi?., ^Vwsx.\w» fer tciaking the 

«iV^\e, tot Wvi V^w \EAxC% V8\Jyft^^sX\ 



INDEX. 



365 



■•• ••• 



Dust-btna, prices of 
Dust-hole and its convenieuces 

Dutch Cutlets of Veal 

Dutch Oysters 

Dutch Sauce fbr meat or fish ... 
Dutch Wafer Puddhigs 



••• ••• 



Page 
27 
... 26 
...131 
... 73 
...104 
...245 



E 

East India Cuny, prepared as a comer 

dish 174 

Economical Cookery, grand principles of 16 
Economical Fare for a very small fiunily 328 

Economical Pudding 249 

Eel Pies, making of 62 

Eel Soup, directions for making. 87 

Eels, directions for spitchcocking, 61; 
firying, bollhig, and collaring, ib.; stew- 
ing 62 

Egg and Bacon Fie 211 

Egg Balls for stews or soups 109 

Egg Flip for invalids... ... 820 

Egg-plum Tart... „ ... 218 

Egg Sauce, receipts for ... ... ... ... 102 

iSigg xoast... *•• •*• ... ... M. .M ... 291 

Egg-¥rine for invalids ... ...... ». 820 

Eggs* directions for boating, 254; boil- 
ing, 291i 282; poaching, 291 ; buttered, 
i&; Scotch .•• .« ... ... ... .^ — 291 

Endire, directions ibr dressing ... ... 196 

Entries, 156; the various modes of cook- 

1119 ••• •«• ••• ••• •«• ••• ••• AuO Cl mCi£9 

Esquimaux, their voracious appetites for 

oil and blubber m. ... m. ••• .^ ... 5 
Essex Pudding ... ... «. m. ... ... 240 

Evening Parties, 847; cost of ^ 348 

Everton Pudding (small) 244 

Eve's Pudding... ... ... .„ ... ... ...245 

Expenditure in housekeeping, calcula- 
tions for a year, 822, 848; table of, 328; 
calculations for a week, 824^ 826, 827; 
fbr a very small family ^ ... ... 828 



Fairy Butter ...».....•.«....«. 296 

Fare, Bills of, for housekeeping, 828 et 
seq.f for each day of the week, 827, 
828; tabular arrangement of, for each 
month, 829—882; according to income, 
829, 881; seasonal table of, 882; fbr 
parties, 349; for dinner parties, 851 et 
$eq.i for a wedding breakfkst ... ... 858 

Fat, some lUnd of; necessary for fiying, 58 
February, domestic bills of fiure for, 329, 
331 ; list of articles in season, 832; bills 
uf fare for dinner parties in ... 851, 852 
Tbiinel Sauce «..„.««. ,., ... ,„ 105 
revernrJnk,arefire$bingone^ ^ .« 819 
Fieldfares, direcUoiia for carvliig ^ 843 



1 



Pag» 

Fig Pudding ^ 284 

Fillets of beef, 118; preparation of, 122; 
of fctewed mutton, 126; of stewed veal 

182, 184 
Fire, general management of the, 89; 
for frying, boUing, iui. ... ... ... 54, 58 

Fish, treatment of, when frozen, 80: 
sometimes better for keeping, 81; 
directions for boiling, frying, broiling, 
&c 56 et seq. ; cleaning of, 56; utensils 
fbr, 57; time required for dressing, 58; 
cutlets of, ib. ; cakes or balls of fried, 
59; how to warm up, ib.; to make a 
flue fish pie, <6.; pulled fish, ib.; 
breakfast dish of, ib.; pickling of, 60; 
directions for dressing river fish, trout, 
perch, tench^ &c, ib.; stewing and 
baking of, 61; eels, 61 ; lampreys, toe. 
62—65 ; directions for cooking sea-fish, 
turbot, soles, cod-fish, &c. 65—70; 
cooking of shell-fish, lobsters, crabs, 
oysters, &c. 70^74; Jelly to cover over, 
100; white sauce for fricassee of, ib.: 
Dutch sauce for, 104; brown sauce 
for, 106 ; white sauce for, ib ; wlien 
in season, 832, 838; diroctious for carv- 

1I1^»«* ••• ••• «•• ••• ••• ••• ••• oo4| «>!>> 

Fish gravy, receipt fur ... 99 

Fish pies HOSetseq. 

Fish sauce without batter. ^ ... 107 

Fish soups, making stock for, 77; force- 
meat balls for m. ... ... m. 109 

Floating islands, preparation of ... ... 26a 

Flounders, cooking of 63 

Flour, its relative proportions of nzotizcd 
and non-azotized substances, 5; baked 
for infants ... m» ••• m. ... ~. ••• 818 

Flour milk ... ». 282 

Food, its nature, use, and abuse, 1 
et seq. ; its efl<ects upon man, and the 
various kinds of; 1—7 ; chemical com- 
position of the solids, 2 ; relative pro- 
portions of azotized and non-azotlzed 
substances in our ordinary articles of. 
5, 6; mineral elements of; 7; on the 
abuse of, 8; use of tea, coflee, and 
cocoa, 8; excess of in quality and 
quantity, 9, 10; undue abstinence 
firom, an abuse, 10; relation existing 
between the market price and the 
alimentaiy value of; ib. ; comparative 
value of, in nutritive matter, 11; 
quantities demanded by the system, 
12, 13; for children in the country, 
13; advantage of its being properly 
prepared for the human stomach, 14; 
cookery of, and the proper utensils, 16; 
kitchen utensils^ 21 et «eq. *, v«i^««»^^'»- 
of, \>y VLCft^Vus, ^% xo^WxwL wx^Xs!^- 

and ie^\xv« ot. Aft ^ *!i4^^"!£ 



tsv. 



866 



INDEX. 



Page 



ft $eq. ; Tarious klnda of cheap food 
suitable to the poor mail, 9M H uq.; 
{See CoOKBET, Ac) 

Forcemeat Balls, recelpU for, 108; for 
fliili, toups, or stews ... m. ... ~. lOQ 

Forcemeats, M; directions for making, 
and yarioas receipts, 107*110; ingredi« 
ents essential or accessory to, 107, 106; 
pretty comer dishes ~ — 178 

Fowl, sauce for, 104; stuffing or force- 
meat for, 106; puree of, as • comer 
dish ••• ... M. ••• M* ... ... ... — *i* 

Fowls, dressing, spitting, and roasUug 
of, 87, 88 ; boiling of. 49 ; white sauce 
for mcassee of, 100; lemon white sauce 
for, 101 ; cooking the various kinds of, 
147 et teq. ; how to stew, 148, 149, 150 ; 
directions for carving, 84L (iSsePouL- 

TKY.) 

Frangipane, receipts for ... ... ... ... 204 

French Apple Padding ... ... 239 

French Batter, prepared as a comer dish 178 
French Beans, directions for boiling and 

stewing ~ M. 191 

French Charlotte ... ... ~. ... ... 268 

French Chicken Pie ... 207 

Frpich Cookery, as compared with the 
English school, 287; vocabulary of 
ccrnis ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• *9v 

French Promises 260 

Frrncli Pudding 240 

French Salads, directions fur dressing ... 196 
/rench Soup, very good and cheap ... 81 

Friars' Omelfcts 259 

Frlcandcau of Beef, directions for cook- 
ing, 119; of Veal, 134; stewvng sorKcl 

for , 194 

Fricassees of cold roast beef, 159 ; of 
fowls, rabbits, &c , and white sauce 

for 100 

Friday, economical dinners for ... 827, 328 

Frli'd Bread to serve witli soup 110 

Filed Bread Crumbs, an accompaniment 

to roast pheasants 110 

Fritters, making of 254, 256-258 

Frozen Meat, Ac, treatment of 80 

Fruit, wholesome preparation of, for 

children 298 

Fruit Cream /.. ... 264 

Fruit Drops of lemon juice 297 

Fruit Jelly, for invalids ... ... 818 

Fruit Meringues 208 

Fruit Pudding, a delicious one 226 

Fruit Sauces 253 

I Ult A. <ir»9 ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ^JLO 

jt'ruits, stewed, 282-287 ; when in season, 

332,333 

Frumetj, preparations of 293 

Fr}-lng or snuteing of anlma\ food, 5\ 
etseq.; some kind of fat necessary tot, 
68; management of the Are lor, fA\ 
general directions for, *6. ; the ordinary 



V»f 



gridiron for, ib. ; offish, M et $eq. ; oc 
flounders, 68; of sea-flsh, 95 et seq.; 

SUjClIo ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• •■• wr 

Fiylng-pan, the.M ••• «« ••• iai 



G 



Oallino Curds and Whey ... ... ^ ...883 

Gallon Measure, the imperial standard, 318 

Oame, treatment of; after keeping, 81; 

trussing of, 85, 87; drawing of; 86; 

horse-radish sauce for, 104; wliea 

in season, 882, 888; directions for 

CftlTlIlg ••• ••• ••« ••• ••• ••• ••• <MIV 

Game, winged, cooking of. ... 155, 156 

Game Pies ........... 205 rt teq^ 812 

Gas, use of, for roasting ... ».».». 41 

Gas Stoves, prices of. «. ». 85 

Gateau des Pommes ... ... ... ... ... 808 

Geese, trussing, spitting, and roasting 
of, 88, 150: boiUng of; 49; Staffing for, 
109; stewing of ... ^ ... «. ... IW 

Gelatine dcs Pommes ... «. ... ... .^ W 

German Pudding, difTerent receipts for, 
846; sauce for ...... m. «« ... «. 854 

German Puffs or Puddings ... ... ... W 

German Sauce ... .m .» m. m. ..• 8SS 



Giblet We ... 



■•• ••« «•• ••• 



••• •*• ••• •^ ' 



Giblet Soup, directions for making ... 83 
Giblets, stewing of, 161; fried in butter 

as a corner dish «. .« 170 

Ginger Beer, for Invalids «. 822 

Ginger Drops, a good stomachic ... ... 297 

Glaze for Soup-makin;:, 77 ; for gravy, 85 
Goose, apple sauce for, 103. {See Geese). 
Gooseberry and Currant Pudding ... 225 
Gooseberry Fool, making of ... ...... 864 

Gooseberry Pudding, baked ... ... .^ 225 

Gooseberry Sauce, preparation of 103 

(iooseberry Tarts 217 

Gooseberry Trifle ... ... 269, 270 

Grates, prices of ... 24 

Gravies, directions for making, 44; 
browning for, 78—95; browned floor 
for colouring and thickening, 78; 

various receipts for making 94-99 

Gravy Bread, for invalids 316 

Gravy Soup, directions for making ... 79 

Grayling, directions for fVying 69 

Grease-pot, its misuse in cooking W 

Greengage Tart 818 

Green-goose Pie 807 

Green-pea Soup, receipts for. 89 

Green Vegetables, saline ingredients of; 7 
Greens, average amoimt required for 
adults, 13; tor children in the coun- 
try 13 

C3iT\dVtov\^\V&xvafc\5vVioUlag 54 

Ot\\\i\vv*«^>st^^s*.Q^V5i>a!v.\»R. us 

QiTO\xtvQL"Kvcfc"t>a.^^xv\i .». ».* .^tSs 



I2n>EX. 



367 



Pag» 
panlment to, 110; directions for 

canrbig -, 841 

Grease Pie m. 208 

Grojuse Sonp, directions for making ^ M 

Omel, for invalids 819 

Gudgeon, dressing of ... ... 60 

Ouinea-towls, trussing, spitting, and 
roasting of, 88, 147; boiling of 49 



H 



Haddocks, boiling and drying of ... ... 68 

Ham, cooking of, 143; potting of, 180; 

directions for carving ... 889 

flam on toast, preparation of 160 

Ham Gravy Sauce, receipt for 98 

Hanging-flap and hooks, prices of 24 

Hare, its relative proportions of azotiz> 

ed and non-azotlzed substances, 5; 

stuffing for, 108; potting of ... ... 180 

Hare Pie «. 209 

Hare Roasted, liver sauces for 102 

Hare Soup, directions for making, 88; 

to make it vrlth hare that has been 

COOKGu !•• ••• •■• ••• ••• •«• ••« ••• O* 

Hares, trussing, spitting, and roasting 
of, 88, 152; stewing of, 152; how to Jug 
them, 158 ; directions for carving ... 842 
Haricot of mutton, directions for cook* 

ing, 124 ; of veal ... 185 

Haricots Blancs, dressing of 191 

Hashed Calf's Head 137, 188 

Hashes, sippets of bread to garnish, 110 ; 

receipts for 163, 164, 165, 168 

Hasty Pudding, receipts for, 227; for 

the poor man's table ... 312 

Horb Pie ... ... ... ... ••< ••• ... 211 

Herbs, directions for frying, as in Staf- 
fordshire n ... ... ... 194 

Herefordshire Pudding ». 249 

Herrings, flrying, broiling, potting, and 

curing, 69; dressing red herrings, 70 ; 

baking of, ib. ; f^ing onions for, 186 ; 

prepared for the poor man's table ... 310 

Hodge-podge, directions for making ... 126 

Hominy, prepared for the poor man's 

XliDlQ ••« ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• *•• **• uLa 

Hook, for roasting 83 

Hot^tops, sewed as asparagus 195 

Horse Beans, their relative proportions 

of azotlzed and non-azotlzed substances 5 
Horseradish Sauce, for cold meat or 
^mxiG • «•• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• xiiv 

Hot-plates, necessity of .» ... ». ... 22 

Hot-pot, preparation of ... 125 

HousEKEEPiKd, calculation of expendi- 
ture for a year, 822; general plan of, 
822 et seq. j table of expenditure, 828; 
weekljr expenses of, S24, 826, 827; eco- 
nomical nwe for a very small ftiintly, 
i bUlB of /kre for each mouth, 



Page 
829-882; seasonal tables for, 882 ; keep- 
ing accounts in, 848 ; total annual ex- 

pdluItuFB ••• ••• ••« ••• ••• m— •■• o43 

Howtowdie, stewed .„ ^ ... ... ... 149 



Icing and Glaze, for tarts or puffs ... 204 
Imitation Brown Gravy, without meat 98 
Imitation Hare, preparation of ... ... 114 

Imperial, for invalids „ ... 822 

Imperial. Cream ... 267 

Imperial systems of length and capacity 

844-847 
Indian Breakfast Cake, for the poor 

man s tahie ... m. ... ... ... .m ... 818 

Indian Corn, green, served as a vegetable 195 
Indian Dumpling, for the poor man's 

mUiv ••• •■• ■•• ••• ••• ••« «•« ••« oX y 

Indian Hasty Pudding, for the poor 

ulali o vADlO ••• ••• •■• ••• ••• ••• «»a OLm 

Indian Mash, prepared for the poor 

man's table „ 811 

Indian Meal Fritters 257 

Indian Meal Gruel, tor the poor man's 

VXl Dl w • • • ••• • • • ••• ••• ••• • • « »•« O tm 

Indian Meal Puffs (American) 246 

Infants, flour baked for 818 

Invalids, cookery fur 814 et seg 

Iri.sh Stew, preparation of. ^ „. 124 

Isinglass, best mode of melting... «. 261 

Italian Cream » «. ... 276 

Italian Cutlets, preparation of ... ^ isi 



1 



Jack for roasting 84 

January, domestic bills of Tare for, 829, 
831 ; list of articles in season, 882; bills 
of fare lor dinner parties in, ... 851, 352 
Jaune-mange, different receipts for 273, 274 
Jellies, savoury, 94; of calf's head, 
chicken, or veal, 166; colouring of, 
261; directions for making the dif- 
ferent kinds oC 278—282 

Jelly Savouring, for cold pics, 99; to 
cover over cold fish, 1(H); how to run 
it, 261; for invalids, 816, 317, 818; or 

Blancmange for invalids 817 

Jenny Lind's Soup, receipt for 93 

Jerusalem Artichokes „ 82, 188 

Jointing, directions for 89 

Joints, loss of weight susti\ined in roast- 
ing or baking, 43; general directions 
for boiling, 50; directions for carving 

Jolnta,p\o.Vn,«caL'TStQit -. — *«* *~ '^ 

JuUeime&ou^,xe««XV^^Q^"» r-\ 
July, dom.«tf2kft\>\»a^l ^«cfel^'t^ 



368 



INDEX. 



Pag* 
bUls 



list of artldet In muoo for, 

of fare for dinner partlet in 

Jane, domestic bills of fore for, S30, 831 ; 
list of articles in season for, 33S; bills 
of fare iw dinner parties In 



854 



8M 



K 



32 
240 

26 
218 



196 
64 



Keeping, preparatioo of food by, S8; 
scnilul for, ib.; directions for, 29; 
watclifulness iieccssaiy, 81 ; fish, ib ; 
meat, |M>altry, or vnine, ib; apples and 
IN'urs, ib; potatoes and Jerusalem or- 

HCU('KC8««a ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• •■• 

Ki'ndal PuddinpaM • ••• 

Kent's patented clnticr-sirtcr 

Kidney Pudding ». ... ^ ... ». ... 

Kidneys, frying of, 122 ; boiled, fried, or 
roasted, 128; dipped in cold parsley for 
oreaaiaSb ... ..« ... ... ... ... ... 

Kippering Salmon m. m. ... ». 

Kitchen, cleanliness, yentilatl<>n, and 
lighting, important essentials for the, 
20; fittings up of the, 21; ranges, 
stores, Ac. 22; smoke Jacks, dressers, 
and closets, 28; prices of kitchen fit- 
tings, 23, 25; the bock-kitchen, or scol- 
lery, and its fittings ... ». 25, 20 

Kitchen -rnnG:c{i, prices of 23 

Kitchener, Dr. his adculatlons for the 
time of roasting ... 4() 

Knife and shoe house, arrangements of 

XIlO ••• ••• ••• •«• m— 9— ••• ••• ••• iCO 

Knives and forks, for carving 334 

Knuckle of veal, directions for stowing, 

132, 135, 136 

Knnckle broth for invalids 315 

Kolcaniion, an Irish dish for the poor 
man's table ^ ••• ... ~. ... ... 811 



... M. 250 



Lady M'xry Lowthcr's padding 
Limb, the varlou.4 modes of cookhiR; 
roasting, boiling, and stewing, 129, ISO; 
chops and cutlets, 129; lamb's head 
stewed, and sweetbreads, 130; direc- 
tions for carving the shoulder or fore- 

ijUnrTCr Oi ••• ••# ••• ••• ••• ••• «•• 

Lmnb Pic 

Laniperus, stewing of 

Lampreys, stewing and potting of. 

Lard, use of; in frying, 53; directions 
for clarifying 

Larders, arrangements of . 

Larding, operations of ... 
/^rJing-needlc, uae of the 
Lark ruildlng 



837 

205 
62 
62 



.. 53 
27,28 
... 45 
.., Kh 
... 1\h 



Layer, directions for dressing ... . Iff 
Leamington Pudding .............. 2S8 

L^cheCrema _ ... ^M 

Leg of Fork, k-la-boisacan... ..143 

Lemon Apple Pudding ... ..237 

I^mon Bread Pudding ... ... K 

Lemon Cheese ............. ..274 

Lemon Cheesecakes ............. SK 

Lemon Cream, in shape ........ .. 274 

Lemon Creams, different preparations 

Ol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. .. sH 

Lemon Custards «»....... ... 2i7 

Lemon Dumplings ... ........ ...251 

Lemon JeOy -....«. .. 2JI 

Lemon Juice, fhiit drop« of .. .m ~. 29T 
Lemon Mince Pies ..... ^ .. ..219 

Lemon Pudding, receipts for 236, SKI 

Lemon Puffs ............ ... m 

Lemon Sauce, preparation of .. ... .. IM 

Lemon Solid Cream ...... ... .. sn 

Lemon Sponge .. ...... 2» 

Lemon White Sauce, for boiled fowls .. Ml 

Lemonade, for invalids .. 8S1 

licmonade Pudding, a cool summer dish 2Si 
Lentils, their rcfative proportions of 

azotized and non-azotized substances i 
Lettuce, directions for dressiug .. ... US 

Light-boUed Pudding .. ... .. ... ..fl8 

Lighting, an important essential in 

cooking ... ... ... ..9) 

Liver Pudding, for the poor man's 

luUlG ••• ••• ••• ••• ••« «.« ^^^ ,M OT»' 

Liver sauce, receipt for, 101; fur roast 

hare or rabbit 10 

Lobster patties JJ 

Lobster pie n 

Lobster rissoles, 71 ; prepared as comer 

dishes 174 

Lobster salad, directions for dressing ... 196 

Lobster sauce, preparations of 1(4 

Lobster soup, directions for making ... 66 
Lobsters, different modes of dressing, 
70, 71; croquettes of, 72; forcing o^ 

ib. ; directions for carving SS6 

Loin of mutton, cooking of; 123; rolled, 

126; stewed lac 

Luncheons, for parties 350,357 



M 



Macaroni, different preparations of, 175, 
296; as comer dishes .. .. ... .« 17J 

Macaroni and custard .. .. .. ...» 

Macaroni Pudding, receipts for .. « 2S1 
Mackerel, boiling, broiling, potting, and 
pickling of, 68; directions for canrhig ttS 

Mackerel Pie ««.... .. • 

'^8l«\,^\>^ d\s^^i^ \X«k ^a^rlous modes of 
cooVvw^ ~. ~. ... ... ... ..^ .jiaArJWl 

1^0Lc\t&.^\x^^\xv\8k ... ... .^ ^ _\^ 



LnrkM. roastinff of. 155; d\recl\o\\» for \ bv».vx«^^*k>»*xv^"x,k» ... ... _ _ _^ 

carving ... »»v«»- 



INDEX. 



869 



Page 
» 68 



12 



4 
289 



858 

U 

240 
114 
192 



847 



Maids, dressing of^ ... .» ~. ... — 

Halt liqaor, average amount required 
Dy adults ^m .m ••> ... ••• .m >•• 

Man, effects of various kinds of food 
upon, 1 et seq. ; a mixture of azotfsed 
and non-azotized substances required 
for his support • .» 

Mancliester Pudding .„ ... 

March, domestic bills of fare for, 829, 
831; list of articles in season, 888; bills 
of fare for dinner parties in 852, 

Market price of food, and its alimen- 
tary value 10, 

Marlborougli Pudding ... ... ... 

Marrow Bones, boiling of 

Marsden, different preparations of 

Mauritius Cream 271 

May, domestic bills of fare for, 829, 331 ; 
list of articles in season, 832 ; bills of 
fare for dinner parties in ... ... 853, 854 

Bfeal Gruel for the poor man's table ... 812 

Measures, tables of for housekeeping 
purposes, 344— 347; of capacity 846, 

Meat, average amount required by 
adnlts, 12 ; treatment of, when frozen, 
80; and after keephig, 80, 81; 8team<- 
ing of, 50; Dutch sauce for, 104; when 

111 86ASO1I ••• ••• ••« •■• ••■ •••VO«f 

Meat Balls, preparation of 

Meat Jelly for invalids 

Meat Pies ... ... ... ... ... ...905 et seq. 

Meat Soup, for family use or village dis> 
tribntion, 80 ; with peas, for the poor 
man's table, 809; with rice 310 

Meats, different kinds of, and their nu- 
tritive properties, 5; toasting and 
braising of, 5^; warmed up, 157; pot- 
ting of... ... M. ~. M. M. M. 178—182 

Melt, preparation of, for the poor man's 

table. ... -. 807 

Melted butter, different preparations of 105 
Meringued Apples ............ ... 299 

Milk, its relative proportions of azotizcd 
and non-azotized substances, 5; ave- 
rage amount required by adults, 18; 
quantity of; fbr children, IS; how to 
render it digestible in illness ... ... 817 , 

Mince Pies, receipts for making ... ... 219 

Minced Beef or Mutton ... ... ...157,158 

Mlnrsed Meat, corner dish of... ... ... 160 

MiHCcd Veal, 16L, 168; tarkey or diickea 166 ; 

Mineral elements of food ... ^ 7 

Mint saace, preparation of —. ... .*. 102 

Miroton de pommes .•• ... ... ... ... 884 

MocK ice, receipts ftv ... ... ... .«. 897 

Mock-turtle soup, directions for making 

62,28 
Mock venison, stewed ... •«. .^ «..'125 

Mock venison pasty ... 210 

Mondigr, economical dinner for ... 827, 828 

MfoaJds, forjelliea, Ac 261 

Mailed port, tHr iavalidM, 8W4 clarat ... 930 



333 
160 
316 



Page 

Mullet, dressing of. 69 

Mulligatawny soup, directions for mak- 
ing. 81, 82 

Mushroom powder, preparation of... ... 192 

Mushroom sauce, receipt for, 101 ; fowl 

dressed with 148 

Mushrooms, directions for stewing and 
broiling, 192; a pur^e of, 198; potting 

01 ••• •*« ••• •■• ••■ ••• ••• ••• •■• wQ* 

Mutton, its relative proportions of 
azotized and non-azotized substances 
<f, 6; venison gravy for, 97; carrier 
sauce for, 104; the various modes of 
eooking, 122, 123; roasting of, 128; 
boiling of, ib.; neck, shoulder, and 
loin of; «'&. ; stewing of, 124—126; 
haricot of; 124; stewed cutlets, 125; 
fillets and loins of, 126; chops and 
cutlets, 127; breast o£; 128; minced, 
157, 158; hashed, 158; potting of, 179; 
log of; how to treat economically, 328; 
directions for carving a hamich of; 
336; or the saddle leg or shoulder, 
837, 338. {See Laub). 
Mutton broth, directions for making ... 78 
Mutton costard for bowel complaints ... 818 
Mutton cutlets, stewed ... .» ... ... 124 

Mutton en masqaerade, 161 ; scalloped, 

id.,* stewed with peas 161 

Mutton pie ... m. ... m. 205 

Mutton pudding ... ... ... ... ... ... 214 



N 



JNflvy^ uicc Ok viiG ••• ••« ••• ««• ••• ••• 

Neck of mutton, cooking of, 128 ; boiled 

Neige k la Qilette ... ... ». 

Nettles, directions for boilUig 

New England pancakes ... 



ib. 

an 

194 
256 



Nitrogen of the food .». ... 2, 8 

Non-azotized compounds of food ... $ 

Normandy pippins, stewing of 988 

November, domestic l»ills of fare for, 

880, 882 ; list of articles in season, 888 ; 

bills of fare ftn* dinner parties In 856 

Novice's pudding — 256 

Nut pudding ... ... m. .m ... ... ... 956 

Nutritive matter, comparative value of, 

ia fOOdM. M« ... M. .-. M. M. U, If 







Oatmeal, its relative proportions ef 
azotized and non-azotlzed substances, 
5,-6; quantity of, for children, 18; 
preparation of ... .".. ».. .». »-. »-- "^ 

Oatmeal v«rtA«!fe, «ft\ *« *«»» V*« ^^ 
man's taVAft '^"' ,^q» 

Oatmea\'Pudt.d\tv« «. «» V*...;^ «kl.'^»^ 



370 



INDEX. 



Page 



838; 



856 



cold 



838; list of articles in season, 
bilU of fare for dinner parties in 
Oily kinds of food adapted for 

Clillltt'68 ••• «•• ••« ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• O 

Olive oil, use of. in flying 08 

Oinciots us comer dishes, 170, 177; di- 
rections for making, 238; a sweet one 200 

Oiuolette SoulBtf 260 

Onion Sauce, receipt for ^ ... 101 

Onion Soup, receipts for ... ... ... 01, 92 

Onions, dilTerent ways of preparing ... 186 

Orange Cheesecakes » ... 221 

Orange Cream ... 263, 266 

Onuigu Fool ... .» ... „ 265 

Orange Jc>ily». ... ... ... 280 

Orange Marmalade Pudding ... ... ... 241 

Orange Tart .~ ... ...218 

Orangeade, for invalids ... ... .» .» 821 

Ortolans, roasting of ... ... ... ... 155 

Oven-roasting, directions for ... ... ... 46 

Ovens, for baking, 84; Dutch and 

American, 85 ; for toasting ... ... 85 

Ox -check, directions for stewing, 121; 

potting of 181 

Ox-dieek Soup, directions for making, 81 
ux—ieec veiiy .m m. ... •«• ... ... 

Oxford Puddings „ 

Oxford Sausages, making of. 

Ox-palate, stewed as a corner dish 
Ox-tail Sou|), directions for making ... 

Ox-tongue, stewing of 

Oyster Patties 

Oyster Sauce, preparation of 

Oyster Sausages, receipt for 

Oyster Soup, directions for making, 86; 

with cream 86 

Oysters, different modes of dressing, 73; 

with veal cutlets 131 



279 
244 
146 

170 
80 

120 
74 

106 

112 



P«g« 

Pastry, Sweet, directions for making 2l5-2tt 
Fastry-oookfl, provide for breakfast and 

dinner parties, 848; cost of 848 

Fatties, saroaiy ones, 206; the varioos 

kinds of M. M. M. ...... M. 2IS 

Patties, German, prepared as a comer 

UlSll «•• ••• ••• mmm m— ••• »*« m— mw M-lJi 

Peaches, stewed ««......«...« „. 286 

Pears, preparation of, by keeping, 81; 

stewed, 285; baked ... ... ......... 296 

Peas, their relative proportions of axo- 

tized and non-azotized substances, 5; 

average amount required for adults, 18; 

directions for boiling and stewing ... 191 
Peas Pudding ......... ^ «.. ^ ... 215 

Pease, comparative value of nutritive 

matter in .^ ... ...11, IS 

Pea-soup, receipts for, 89, 90; fbr the 

••• ••• M* OiO 

••• ••• ••• 3>7l 

»•• ••• M« 00 

...28 



• •• ••• 



Palates of Beef, rolling and fr3ring of ... 120 
Pancakes, different receipts for making 234-6 

Paper, use of to prevent burning 45 

Parsley, how to crisp and fry 195 

Parsley and Butter, preparations of ... 106 
Parsnips, comparative value of nutritive 
matter in, 11, 12; the different ways of 

cooking 185 

Parties, breakfast, dinner, and evening, 
847 et seq. ; cost of, 348. 349 ; different 

bills of fare for 349, 851 et seq. 

Partridge, potting of, 181; cold sauce fbr 104 

Partridge Pie 208 

Partridge Soup, directions for making... 84 
Partridges, trussing, spitting, and roast- 
ing of, 38; fried bread crumbs an ac- 
companiment to, 110; bolUwg ot,\55*, 

directions for carving « ... MV. 

Taste^ use of to prevent burn\T\g ... *5 

P/wtO', various receipts tor luaWuc "V^V2fi5 



poor man's table... 
Pembroke Pudding 
Peppermint Drops... 
Perch, dressing of 
Pettitoes, boiling of 
Pheasant Pie 
Pheasants, trussing, spitting, and roast- 
ing of, 88; fiied bread crumbs an ac- 
companiment to, when roasts 40; 
directions for carving ... ....«.- Stf 

Pickled Vork, preparation of... ... .„ 142 

Pickling, of fish, 60; of salmon, 64; of 

mackerel. 68; of oysters ...... 74 

Pies, made of fish, 50; savoury jelly for, 
09 ; when cold, ib. ; various receipts for, 
as corner dishes, 109; different kinds 

of savoury ones 205—213 

Pig. (See Sucking Piq) 

Pig's Blood, for the poor man's table «. 308 

Pig's Cheek, boiling of .« ... H3 

Pig's Fry, dressing of... .„ ... i« 

Pig's Liver for the poor man's table ^ S^*/ 
Pig's Pettitoes, boiling of ... ... ... «. 143 

Pigeon Pie ... 208 

Pigeons, trussing of, 37; roasting o^ 
165; boiling of, 156; stewing oC ib ; 
potting of, 180, 181; directions for 

C«*rVllI|f ••• ••• ••• ««« a«a «,, ^^^ a^ 04* 

Pike, baking of „ 65 

Pillau, preparation of, as a corner dish Kl 

Pine-apple Cream „. ... ... 2C2 

Pmk Cream... ... ... ... ...S^^ 

Pipers, dressing of & 

Plaice, boiling and A^ing of, 65 ; direc- 
tions for carvings 335 

Plum Pudding Sauce, without wine ... 2^ 
Plum Puddings, directions for making 
various kinds of, 232, 238; a plain one, 
for the poor man's table... «. .„ .„ &)! 

Plum Tarts ... ,.. ,. ... 213 

^ovxdcv^^^^Sa ... .„ ... „ 291 

■t<i«L.OaaftL^%%% »sA'dk^VKoja«sv^ *.>^ ^ earner 

OaSAV «%« %•• •*% ««* wk* %»^ ^^^ ^^^YW 



INDEX. 



871 



Page 

Polonies, preparation of.„ Ill, 146 

Pommed k la Ctiantilly, 265 ; aux Mar- 
ions, 275 ; k la Yesuve, ib. ; h I'lmpera- 
trice, 283; Miroton de, 284; & TAllc- 
inande, t6.,* & la HoUandaise, ib.; 
Santdes, ib.; k la Frangipane, 286; 
Ctiartreuse de, 287 ; Pralindes ^ ... 299 

Pommes de Terre, rissoles of 184 

Poor, Cookery for the, 801; the rich 
man's superfluities to be saved for 
their use, ib. ; the poor man's cookery, 
803; various kinds of cheap food suit- 
able to the, 305 ei seq. ; economical 
modes of cookery for the ... ... 318,814 

Poor Knight's Pudding 284 

Pork, its relative proportions of azotized 
and non-azotized substances, 5; apple 
sauce for, 103; stuffing for, when 
roasted, 110; the various ways of 
cooking, 141-143; roasting, 141; boil- 
ing, 142, 143; flying, 143; leg of, it la 
boisseau, ib. ; filed with cabbage, 168 ; 
beasted, devilled, or broiled, ib. ; 

O11t90 «•■ ••• ••• ••• ••■ ••• •«• ••• AOO 

Purk Pies, a plain crust, Ac for, 202; 

directions for making 211 

Pork Sausages, making of ... ... 111,145 

Porridge, of oatmeal, 292; of rice 292 

Porridge, of oatmeal or of rice, for the 

|)Oor man's table 811 

Port, mulling of 819 

Portable Soup, for travellers ... ... 86 

Posset Syllabub ... m. 294 

Pot-au-feu, directions for making ... 81 

Potato Cheesecakes ... ... 221 

Potato Balis, l)reparation of... ... ... 184 

Potato Balls Ragout, prepared as a cor- 

UCT Uloll ••« ••• ••■ ■•• ••■ ••« ■■• «•« Xim 

Potato Fritters 256 

Potato Jraste ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 303 

Potato Pie, as a corner dish, 169 ; prepa- 
ration of ... ... ... .M 211 

Potato Pudding, with meat, 215; receipts 



tor 



236 



Potato Sonffl^ with lemon ... ... ... 259 

Potatoes, iheir relative proportions of 
azotized and non-azotized substances, 
5, 6; their proportion of nutriment as 
compared with animal food, 6; their 
wholesomeness when mixed with 
bread and meat, ib.; comparative 
value of nutritive matter in, 11, 12 ; 
average amount required by adults, 
13, 13; a cheap food for children, 13; 
preparation of, by keeping, 82; pre- 
pared as a corner dish, 172 ; the vari- 
ous ways of dressing 183,184 

Putted Meats, preparation of 178 

Potting of lampreys, 62; of salmon, 64; 
of mackerel, 68; ofahell-eah, TOetseq.; 
of meats, Ac 178-182; of musbrooms 193 
roaltry, treatment of, yrhea. fl-ozen, 80; 



Page 
their treatment after keeping, 80, 81; 
trussing, 35; drawing, 36; economical 
gravy for, 98; the various modes of 
cooking, 147-156; turkeys, 147, 148; 
chickens, 148, 149; geese and ducks, 
150,151; wild fowl, 152; winged game, 
pigeons, &fi. 155, 156 ; warming up ot, 
157, 166; when in season, 332, 333; 

directions for carving 339 

Pound Pudding 242 

Pound-weight, the imperial siandard ... 345 
Prawns, diflerent modes of dressing 70, 71 

Priceless Padding 248 

Protein Compound 3 

Prussian Cream ... 263 

Prussian Puffs 243 

Pudding Sauces, 224; various kinds 

Ol • • ■ ••• ■ • • ••« ••• •■• ••• ••• JniZr'mO^ 

Puddings, Black and White, 146; sa- 
voury ones, 206; the various kinds 
of, 213; directions for making, 224— 
251; a rich one, 250; a cold one, ib; 
cheap ones for the poor, 302, 303; a 

light one for invalids 318 

PulT Paste 200, 2U1 

Puffs, various kinds of, 222, 223, 242, 243, 

246, 251 

Pulled Fish „ 59 

Punch Jdly ... 281 



Q 



Quantity and quality of food ... 
Quinces, stewed for syrup or jelly 



17,18 
... 286 



B 

Rabbit, Roasted, liver sauces fbr 102 

liabblt Curry, prepared as a comer 

QlBQ • • « ••• »•« ••• • • « • ■ • ••• • • * X/o 

XCADDIC A lG«ea ••• •«• ••• •«• ••• ••• ••• /Sii 

Rabbits, trussing, spitting, and roast- 
ing of; 88; trussing of, for l>oiiing, 49; 
white sauce for fVicassee of; 100; boil- 
ing, 153; stewing, 154; fMcassee oi; 

*Vy ZXjnil^ ••• ••• at* aaa aaa ••• ••• \0% 

Ragout breast of veal 134, 135 

Raised Crust lor savoury pies, custards, 

or puddings „ ... 201,202 

Raised Pies, directions for making ... 211 
Ramakins, prepared as a corner dish ... 177 
Ranges for the kitchen, prices of the 23—25 

Raspberry Cream, 262; solid 268,275 

Raspberry Jelly 282 

Raspberry Padding ... «2& 

Uaspberry Syrwfk «. ... ...'»»*^ 

Raspberty latta, ^Vl % ^VOcv c«»sb. — "^^ 

Raspberry VVucft« wv^i^^J^^x-^^^^J^^, 



Y&IILCL& 



••% «■• 



HTDEZ. 



973 



Page 

Sheep's nead, stewed 126 

Sheep's Liver, or Kidney, for the poor 

man's table .m ••• 807 

Sheep's Flack, directions for frying ... 128 
Sheep's Trotters, for the poor man's 

bflDIQ ••• ••• ••• •• ••• ••• ••• ••• oUo 

Shell Fish, special directions for dress- 

111^ • • • ■•• ••• •#• ••• • • * ••• ••• I V'l' ■ #^ 

Shin of Beef, directions for stewing ... 116 
Short Crust, different kinds of ... 199, 2C0 

Shoulder of Mutton, boiled 123 

Shoulder of Veal, French way of dress- 

mg .M ... ..a ... ... .M ... ... JoS! 

Shrimp Pie 71 

Hhrimp Sauce, preparation of 106 

Shrimps, different modes of dressing, 70, 71 

Sifters, prices of 27 

Sippets of Bread, to garnish hashes ... 110 

Sir Walter Scotfs Wassail Bowl 269 

Sir Watkins' Pudding ... 247 

Sirloin of Beef, dressing the Inside of a 159 

Six-hour Pudding ... ,^ ... ». 237 

Skate, dressing of 68 

Skimmed Milk, to be sared for the poor 802 

smelts, frying of ^ 69 

Smoke-Jack, an indispensable adjunct, 

23; use of the ... 40 

Smoked sausages, preparation of ... Ill, 145 
Snipes, roasting of, 156; directions for 

carving 842 

Snowdon Pudding 234 

Sole Pie 66 

Soles, cooking of, 6S; as cutlets, ib.; 

directions for carving 835 

Sopped Toast, for ttie poor man's table 808 
Sorrel, stewing fbr fricandeau and roast 

meat 194 

Sorrel Sauce, preparation of 103 

Souffld Pudding, various receipts for, 244, 245 
SoufS^s, 254; directions for makinsr 

various kinds of 258-260 

Soup, tried bread to serve with, 110; for 

invalids 815 

Soup Maigre, receipt for 90 

Soups, browning for, 78; colouring and 

thickening of, ib.; egg balls fbr, 109; 



for the poor man's table 



810 



Soups and Broths, general directions 
for making, 74 ; various receipts fof 78-94 

Spanish Blancmange 273 

Spanish Custard 277 

Spanish Fritters 256 

Spanish Onions, stewing of 186 

Spanish Puffs 243 

Sparrow Dumpling 215 

Spiqach, directions for dressing, 188; 

stewing of « « ... ... 189 

Spinach Soup, receipt for ... 91 

Spit, for roasting ... „, ... 33 

Spitting, airectiona fur 35 et seq. 

fponge-cake Puddings «. ... a^\ Ta;Aoca,%\.vw«Atox VKS«»a»- 



Page 
Sprats, frying, broiling, and potting, 69; 
prepared for the poor man's table ... 810 

Steak Pudding ... «. 21» 

Steaks, Sauce Bobart fbr, 104; direc- 
tions fbr stewing, 116; venison, 144; 

frying onions for ... ... „. 186 

Steam-closets and kettles, prices of ... 24 
Steaming of animal food, 46, 50 ; the old- 
fashioned steamer... ... 50 

Stewed Beef Tongue, as a comer dish... 169 
Stewed f^ta, different preparations of 

282—287 
Stewing of animal food, 46 et seq. ; prin- 
ciples o^ and utensils for, 51 ; of meats, 
&0. 56; of fish, 61 ; of lampreys and 
lampems, 62; of shell-flsh, 70 et uq. ; 
of butcher's meat, different ways of, 
115—121, 124 et seq. passim 
Stews, forcemeat balls for, 109; egg 

balls for 109 

Stock, directions for making, 76, 77; for 
brown or white fish soups, 77 ; clari- 

'jf***^ vl ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• •»• ••• 77 

stock-pot, for soup-making 75 

Stomach, different kinds of food adapted 
for the, 14; on the advantages of a 
proper p reparation of food for the 14, IK 

Stone Creams 265,268 

Strawberry Soufla^ 259 

Stricken Measure ... 846 

Stufilug, 94; dUrections for malting, and 
varioua receipts, 107— 110; ingredients 
essential or accessory to, 107, 108 ; for 

geese and ducks 100 

Sucking-pig, sauce for, 102 ; stuffing for, 
109; either roasted or baked; 142; 

directions for carving snD 

Suet Dumplings ... ». 251, 252 

Suet Puddings «. 214, 232 

Sugar, average amount of, required by 

apUUltS ••« ••• ••• ••• ••• •«« «y« ,,« jS 

Sunday, economical dinner for ... 827, 828 

Sapper, to make soup for 93 

Sapper dish blancmange ... ... ... 278 

Supper parties, bills of fare for, 848-^50 

860; costs of ... 848,849 

Sweet Pastry, directions for maklnc 215—228 
Sweet Pudding sauce, without wiue ... 253 

Sweet Sandwiches 223 

Sweet Sauce, for savoury Joints 99 

Sweet-bread Croquettes, as corner disties 170 
Sweetbreads, lamb's, 180; different pre- 
parations of » ...139,140 

Swiss Cream «. 262 

Swiss Pudding. 884 

Syllabub for trifle 270 

Syllabub, different preparations of ..« 804 



Spoon fuJ rudUliigs 






24& Tapioca Yuiid.VcKi .•• 



874 



INDEX. 



Page 

Tartlets S19 

Tarts, various kinds of J16— 218 

Taste, nice sense of necessary fbr a first- 
rate cooli 19 

Tea, general use of, as a nutritions ali- 
. nient, 8 ; average amount of, required 

for adults U 

Tea and Coffee, served up for parties ... 8M 

Tea-cup Puddings S48 

Tea-liettle Brotli, for invalids 816 

Tench, dressing of. 00 

Terrapins, preparation of 163 

T6te-k-la-Mode, prepared as a comer 

dish ». «, 176 

Thomback, dressing of 68 

Thorpe Pudding 240 

Thrushes, roastinqr of 155 

Thursday, economical dinner fbr... 827, 828 
Timball's liacaroui, prepared as a comer 

dish 175 

Tipsy Cake 278 

Toad in a bole, directions for making a 214 

Toast Sandwiches for invalids. 816 

Toasting of meats, Ac 51,55 

Toffy, receipts for making 298 

Tomato Sauce, with veal cutlets ... 132 

Tomatoes, directions for dressing 194 

Tongue, directions for stewing a, 117; 
stewed beer tongue, 169 ; fVicassee of, 
t6. ; rolled, to eat cold, 117 ; pottUig of, 

180; directions for carving.^ 338 

Tower Pudding 248 

Travellers, portable soup for 85 

Treacle, quantity of, fur ctiildreu, 13; 

boiled 254 

Trifle, various receipts for making 

262, 269, 270 
Tripe, preparation of, 122; boiling and 

frying of 122 

Trout, directions for frying ... 00 

Trout k la Oenevoise, cooking of 60 

Trussing, directions for, 35 et seq. ; for 

boiling, &c M. idelseq. 

Tuesday, economical dinner for .» 827, 328 
Turbot, boiling and frying of, 65 ; direc- 
tions fbr carving 835 

Turkey, boiled, an excellent sauce for, 
101; minced, 166; directions for carving 840 

Turkey Patties 213 

Turkeys, process of trussing, 87; trass- 
ing of, for boiling, 49; roasting o^ 

147; boiling and stewing of ..148 

Tumed-out Custard ... ... 278 

Turnip Soup, receipt for ... ... 88 

Turnip-tops, directions for boiling 194 

Turnips, comparative value of nutritive 
matter in, 11, 12 ; preparations of ... 186 



U 

Vten8}l8 for roasting and baking, S3 et 
eoq. ; prices of, 35 ; for boiUng, fttoaia- 



Fagt 
Ing, and stewing, 47i for boiling fish, 
57; for sonp-maklng, 75 et seq.; for 
stewing, 51; for cooking flsb,57; for 
cooking made-up dishes 157 



Vanilla Blancmange 27S 

VanUla CusUrd, flx)thed 27T 

Teal, its relative proportions of azotized 
and uon-azotized substances, 56; stuff- 
ing or forcemeat for, 108; the various 
modes of cooking, 130, 140; roasUng, 
130; boiling, 180, 137; cutlets, 131. 132, 
140; stewing, 132—134, 136; coUops ot, 
133; breast of, 133, 134, ISO; frican- 
('.eauo^ 184; haricot o^ 135; knuckle 
or, 135, 136; calf's head and feet, 136— 
139; sweetbreads, 139, 140; miroton 
or, 161; minced, 161, 168; warmed up 
fillet of, 168; cold hash of, ib; que- 
niiles, rissoles, and cutlets, 164; made 
into Jelly, 166; scallop of, ib; cutlets 
from dressed meats, 167; croquettes 
of, as comer dishes, 171 ; potting of; 
179, 180; directions for carving a 
breast of, 837; or a fillet, loin, or 

shoulder 837, 338 

Veal Balls it2 

Veal Broth, directions for making ... 78, 80 

Veal Cake, preparations of ifij 

Veal CutletJs directions for cooking ... 140 

Veal Gravy 97 

Veal Olives, preparation of ... 162, 163 

Veal Patties 213 

Veal Pie 206 

Veal Sausages, receipts for 112, 145 

Vegetable Acids j 

Vegetable Marrow, boiling, stewing, 

and mashing of 187 

Vegetable Pie 21I 

Vegetable Pudding 238 

Vegetable Soup, receipt for 93 

Vegetables, white sauce for fricassee of, 
100; the various modes of dressing 
and cooking, 182—195; special direc- 
tions for, 183 et seq. ; when in season 

332, 333 
Vegetables, Green, saline Ingredients of 7 

Vegetables and cold meat, stew of. 168 

Velvet Cream 268 

Venetian Cream 868 

Venison, roasting and stewing of, 144; 

directions for carving 336 

Venison Gravy for mutton 97 

Venison, Hashed, receipts for 164, 165 

Venison Pasty, 209; how to prepare 

venison for pasty 209 

Venison Pudding „. 214 

/^^t^Ama^XftaSu .« .«, ^ 144 



DTDEX. 



S75 



— - Pag* 

fentnatioD, an important essential in 

■I* cooking M. .» .^ .» „ 20 

rH^letoria Padding ^ ^ 248 

■|iT6l-«a*Tents, 205; directions for mak- 

B^ *"■• *•• *•• *•• *** *•• •*• **• 3SX2| 3Uo 



w 

Wsftr Paddings ^ .^ ». ^ ^ ^ 
W«nned-ap Meats, tbe varioas modes 

«reooking 156—181 

Waih-tnb, misuse of; in cooking 20 

Waasail Bowl of Sir Walter Scott ... 269 
Water Sonchy, preparatlnB of... ... ... 68 

Wedding-breakfast for forty persons ... 858 
Wednesdayi economical dinner for 827, 828 
Weekly Expenses, according to income 

824, 826, 827 

Weight, lost Of, in roasting 42 

Weiglits and measures, tables of, for 

hoasekeeping purposes 844—847 

Welsh Babbit, directions tor making ... 296 
Wbeat-flour, its relative proportions of 

asotised and non-azotized substance 5 

Whey« White wine, for InTalids 820 

Whip for trifle 270 

Whipped Fruit creams, receipts for ... 268 
White Hog*s pudding, receipts for ... 118 



El'' 

a 

it' 

Ml 
Id 



Pag* 
White Pot 285 

White Puddings, making of 146 

White Sauce for fish 106 

White Sauce for fk-icassees. 100 

White Soup, receipts for, 92; of Jeru- 
salem artichokes, ih.; a transparent one, 94 

Whitings, boiling and fiying of 68 

Wild Ducks, stewing of 152 

Wild Fowl, trussing, spitting, and roast- 
ing of, 88, 151; gravy for. 98 

Windsor Beans, fricasseed 191 

Wine Caudle, for Invalids ... 819 

Wine Gravy or Sauce, receipt fur ... 99 
Wine Jellies, made with gelatine, 279; 

with tapioca 280 

Wine Sauce 852 

Winter Peas Soup, receipts for, 89, 90; 

without meat, 90; for Lent 90 

Woodcocks, roasting of, 156; potting of; 

181 ; directions for carving 849 

Wood-pigeons, cooking of 156 



Yard, the imperial standard 844 

Yeast or Suffolk Dumplings 25S 

Yeomanry Padding 947 



Yorkshire Pudding 



... 915 






THE END. 



jf ijorQrooiLx axd co,, ntixTiBS, uoxi>o«— ^«»xa^'8^'^'^^'*• 



