Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



On 
seven 
cocoa 
same 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



1 



""■MMMMiH.'iit,'' 



suet J ' 

fuls (j 

cinna 

poum 

little 

moisten it sufficiently for baking. 



WINE JEXdLY, 



t 



One box of Cox's golMli' > j>ne pint of cold 
water; let it stand twcn^ li . is, then add one 
pint of wine, o' : ' .^ sugar, outside 

peel and juice iik ' 1' n - jiS,'and one and a half 

pints of boiling ^ i^fet it stand awhile and 

strain it. 

4 

I . 



L'-' .-- 



\ 




/,. 








'-) 



i 



I 



♦i 



THE 



NEW BEDFORD 



PRACTICAL RECEIPT BOOK 



1 



BY 



P. H. MENDALL. 



■«•» 



THIRD EDITION. 



<•» 



NEW BEDFORD: 
ROBERT B. TABER. 

1870. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, 

By Mrs. P. H. MENDALL, 

in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of MassachUBetts. 



^ ' E. Anthony & Sons, Fbintebs. 






• '- j*. = I 



\ 



RECEIPTS. 



MEATS, &c. 

ALAMODE BEEF. 

Take a round of beef that weighs twenty 
pounds, cut out the bone and wrap the skin 
over so as to make a handsome round. Wash 
and drain it ; grate a large nutmeg, as much salt 
and a littte less of pounded cloves, mix them 
together and rub over the sides of the meat well. 
Then pour over three pints of claret or port wine, 
and let it remain all night. Take a long piece 
of strong cloth the width of the beef, wind it 
round yery tight and sew it. Make the stuffing 
of two pounded crackers, sweet marjoram, pepper, 
salt, a nutmeg, butter, wine and one or two eggs ; 
cut deep holes in it, and put in the stuffing. Then 
rub over as much spice and salt as you did before. 
Put a piece of twine or tape over it, that it may 
more easily be taken from the pot. Place a 
drainer in the bottom and put in the beef with 
about half of the wine, adding the remainder mixed 



4 RECEIPTS. 

• 

with three pints of water, as it may require. 
Three hours over a slow steady fire will cook it 
sufficiently. Add to the gravy a little salt and 
pepper, and then the dish ^s done. 

TO BARBECUE A PIG. ' 

Cut it open on the back, cut off the feet and 
clean the head as for roasting; wash it well, then 
dry it and sprinkle over cayenne pepper, salt and 
sage. Put the inside on a gridiron and let it 
remain an hour, taking care to baste the skin with 
sweet oil, then turn it and take three fourths of a 
pound of butter to one pint of port wine, melt 
the butter in it and baste the inside which lies 
uppermost continually with it. Two hours will 
cook one of seven pounds weight. *For sauce, 
take the inwards and boil them an hour, with a 
dozen cloves, a little salt and ^ few pepper-corns, 
then chop them fine, add sweet herbs, a little sage 
if you like it, considerable white wine, s^ome of 
the liquor in which it was boiled, more pepper and 
salt if necessary. 

TO COOK A ROUND OP BEEF. 

Cut holes in it and fill them with rich stuffing, 
then put it in a pot with half a pound of butter 
made hot, let one side brown before it is turned, 
shake the pot often to keep it from sticking, then 



MEATS, &0. 5 

% 

add water and let it cook from one to one and a 
half hours; thicken the gravy and add wine ; put 
in a. little water at a time, but be careful it does 
not dry away and burn. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Cut slices half an inch thick and four inches 
square, of cooked or raw beef, pound them, rub 
on salt, pepper, sweet herbs, cloves and nutmeg, 
then roll them tight and tie them ; roll each piece 
in an egg beaten, and then in seasoned crackers 
pounded fine, fry them in beef drippings or lard 
for a little while, just making them a light brown, 
then stew them gently for an hour or more in the 
gravy, whicJi should be made by boiling up the 
bones with^an onion, salt, pepper, &c., as you 
would for common -»gravy thickened with a little 
browned flour; skim oflF all the fat that rises. 
Veal or mutton may be done in the same way, 
taking oflF all the fat part. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Pound the veal well, cut it into small pieces ; 
beat up two or three eggSy into which dip the 
veal, then into crumbs of bread or pounded crack- 
er, (add if liked, herbs with the eggs and pepper, 
and salt.) Fry the cutlets brown in lard, when 

A2 



6 RECEIPTS, 

t 

done take them out and pour into the pan a little 
milk or cream, dust in also a little flour, pour this 
gravy over the veal and send to table ; stew some 
tomatoes, seasoned with pepper and salt, pour 
them into the gravy and let it stew together a few 
minutes, pour over the cutlets and serve. 



MUTTON CHOPS. 

First dip them in egg and afterwards in bread 
crumbs or pounded cracker. Have the lard hot 
when you put them in. Fry them brown, then 
take them out . of the paa to make the gravy. 
Toast two slices of bread very brown and pound it 
fine. Turn the toasted bread with a tdble-spoonful 
of vinegar into the pan, add pepper and salt ; after 
turning, put back the chops and cover* them with 
the gravy until entirely heated through. Pour all 
into a dish and send to the table as hot as possible. 



TO ROAST MUTTON LIKE VENISON. 

Take a leg of mutton, rub it over with saltpetre 
and hang it in a moist place two days, wipe it two 
or three times in the day with a cloth, then put it 
in a pan ; boil a quart of port wine, pour it boil- 
ing hot over your mutton, cover it close two 
hours, take it out, baste it frequently with the 



MEATS, &0. T 

sauce-liquor or butter ; have a brisk fire. One and 
one half hours will bake it. 

TO STUFF A FILLET OF VEAL. 

Take a slice or two of the fillet, and a few slices 
of pork, chop these very fine, add sweet herbs^ 
pepper and* salt; if the pork does not make it soft 
enough, moisten it with an egg. t 

. WHITE FRICASSEE, 

• * 

Two chickens. Skin and cut them into little 
pieces, lay them in warm water to drain out the 
blood, then dry them in a cloth and put them into 
a stew-pan with milk and water, stew them till 
tender, then take them out with a fork, strain the 
liquor, return to the pan again with half a pint of 
the liquor,' a half a pint of cream, the yolks of 
two eggs, a little mace, a glass of white wine, and 
a piece of butter rolled in flour. 

■ 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Put the chickens into a pot and stew them in a 
little water until quite tender. Take them out, 
cut them into pieces, put them back into about 
half the quantity of the water they have previ- 
ously been boiled in, with pepper and salt. Let 
them stew until entu-ely cooked. Have ready a 
gravy of a pint of cream, half a tea-cup full of 



8 RECEIPTS. 

■i 

port wine, butter the size of an egg^ a little salt, 
black pepper and a little red. Take the chicken 
from the pot, and when laid upon the platter pour 
the gravy hot over it. The liquor in which the 
chicken was boiled may be addeii to the gravy or 
not, as you choose. 

TO CUBRY CHICKEN. 

* 

Dissect and' parboil your chickens iu as little 
water as possible. Then remove them .from the 
kettle and in the liquid fry two or three thin slices 
of pork, with an onion or two ; then remove the 
pork, replace the chicken with the liquid, and let 
it boil again, and add more water if necessary ; 
make a little thickening and to it add one table- 
spoonful and a half of curry powder, and let it 
boil again for a few minutes. When served, gar- 
nish the dish with small balls of boiled rice, or 
always have plain boiled rice as a vegetable. 



CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces and put* them on 
to cook with just water enough to cover them. 
When about half done take out the chicken and 
rub some pepper, salt and flour with sufficient 
butter to make a rich gravy ; when cool roll out 
your crust and put round the sides of the dish, let 



MEATS, &C. 9 

it come over the edge, then cut some narrow strips 
and put round twice on the top of that ; put in the 
chicken and fill the dish about half full of gravy ; 
save out plenty to eat with the pie. If there doe& 
not seem to be enough, rub some butter with Jour 
and seasoning and put in small pieces among the 
chicken, and put in some w.ater. Then cover the 
dish with a thick ^rust, cut out a round piece from 
the centre of , the pie, then roll some crust a little 
thicker than' you would for a common pie, and cut 
eight leaves, you can mark round a table-.spoon to 
shape them, mark them through the middle and 
each side to resemble a leaf, then lay on four op- 
posite each other, then the other four between 
those, take a narrow strip of the crust and cut it 
fine at one edge, theji roll it up and put it in the 
centre ; if properly done you have a very hand- 
some pie. Bake gradually until the crust is done* 



• A VERY NICE OYSTER PIE 

Can be mad^ in the same way; prepare the 
oysters as you would to bake* 



TO MAKE A STEW-PIE. 



Cut your meat or fowl in small pieces, wash and 
f put it on a colander to drain ; cut a few slices of 



10 RECEIPTS. 

pork and fry out all the fat, then take them out 
and put in the meat with water sufficient to cover 
it, season well with salt and pepper, (a piece of 
pepper pod is very nice,) add water if necessary, 
buttdo not get too much at first; peel some pota- 
toes and cut them into two pieces ; have a crust 
ready made of raided or soda bread with a little 
shortening, and three quarters of an hour before 
dinner take out a few pieces of meat to make room 
for the potatoes to go into the gravy, replace the 
meat, make up the crust like flat dumplings and 
place them round the sides of the pot; stir some 
thickening and put in just before you take it up. 
You must not have a rash heat, it will burn if you 
do — should you want your gravy very rich, a few 
slices of onion might be fried with the pork. 



BEEF STEAK PUDDING. 

• 

Ciil your meat in small pieces, put it in a stew- 
pan with water to cover it ; season with pepper 
and salt, cook it about half an hour, thicken the 
gravy with some butter and flour rubbed ' together, 
then set it away to cool, make a rich crust, put 
your pudding cloth in a large bowl, roll the crust 
out thick, and lay in, and \»hen the gravy is cold 
put in the meat, and a part of the gravy, (save 
part to eat with the pudding,) make it quite tight 



• 



MEATS, &0. 11 

and tie the cloth finn, put it in boiling water and 
cook from one and a half to two hours. If the 
steak is tough it should be pounded before it is 
cooked.. Any other fresh meat will do to make 
such a pudding, and it is a good way to use up 
cold meat. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

Boil a ham»moderately from three to four hours, 
according to the size ; when done, take off the skin 
and set it in the dven until the fat is nicely 
browned. 

TO MAKE SCRAPPLE. 

Take the heart, kidneys, sweetbread, milt. and 
liver and put them to boil. The liver will be done 
sufficiently in an hour. Chop all very fine, take 
the skins and scraps unfit for sausages, the feet 
and tongue, and boil them all very tender, chop 
them fine and return them to the liquor they were 
boiled in, salt, pepper and sage must be added 
according tp the taste ; when boiling, stir in buck- 
wheat meal to the thickness of mush, keep it stir- 
ring while it boils to prevent it from burning; it 
need not boil long. 

SAUSAGES. 

Forty-six pounds of meat, three fourths of a 
pound of salt, three ounces of black pepper, half 



12 RECEIPTS. 

an ounce of sage, and a table-spoonful of red 
pepper. 

ANOTHER. 

To ten pounds of meat, three table-spoonsful 
of salt, three of sage, one of black and one of red 
pepper. 

« 

VEAL SAUSAGES. 

Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat pork, 
a handful of sage, a little salt, beat all in a mortar 
and roll out like doughnuts and fry them. 

TO HASH MEAT. 

Take fresh meat and cut it in small pieces with 
a knife, then add the gravy if you have any, if not 
put in water and rub some butter and -flour to 
thicken it. Season with pepper and salt to the 
taste. 

TO HASH COLD HAM. 

Take the lean and chop it fine, add water suffi- 
cient to cover it, beat two or three eggs, and when 
it boils stir them in with some pepper ; take it off 
as soon as the egg is cooked. Codfish is good 
when managed in this way, but it must be soaked 
first in hot water and made as fresh as possible. 
Add a piece of butter. 



$ 



MEATS, &0. 13 

BAKED FISH. 

Take a middling sized fish or a very large black- 
fish, make a stuffing of bread, a little pork chopped 
fine, sweet herbs, an onion, salt and pepper ; place 
the fish in a bake-pan with a little water, sufficient 
to keep it moist. Add a glass of red wine, a little 
flour and butter. • 

* 

TO STEW FISH. 

After the fish is well cleaned, put It into a stew- 
pan with sufficient water, an onion stuck with 
cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt; 
when it is almost done* add a glass of wine, a tea- 
cup full of ketchup and a little flour and butter 
mixed to thicken it. Toasted bread to be placed 
underneath it. • 

SCOLLOPED FISH. 

Take any boiled fish when cold, mince it up, 
put a layer in the bottom of a dish, add pepper, 
salt and butter ; then sprinkle over a layer of 
bread crumbs, place these layers alternately until 
tte dish is filled, over the top pour about half a 
cup of cream and then bake. This is excellent for 
breakfast. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Cut the lobster in pieces about an inch square, 
place them in a stew-pan and over it pour a cup 

B 



14 BECEIPTS. 

of water, add a piece of butter the size of an eggy 
pepper and salt to the taste, mix also with it the 
green meat of the lobster, and stew about ten 
minutes. Just before taking it off add two wine- 
glasses of sherry, or port wine if preferred, let it 
scald but not boil. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Einse two quarts of oysters in the liquor ; strain 
it and let it boil for a few minutes ; skim it well, 
add a table-spoonful of flour, same of butter well 
mixed with a tea-cup of cream, black pepper and a 
little red, salt if necessary, after boiling a few 
moments drop in the oysters and boil ten minutes. 

BAKED OYSTERS. 

Take three pints of solid oysters, one do^en 
crackers pounded, six ounces of butter, one cup 
of the oyster water. Bake this quantity in two 
shoal dishes. Wash the oysters in strong salt and 
water. Take them out separately as dry as you 
can. Butter your dishes, and put first a layer of 
cracker, then a layer of oysters with butter and 
pepper, then another layer of cracker, oysters, 
&c. Cover with the cracker and put the water in 
just as you put them in the oven. Flavor with 
wine if you choose. In that case put in less of 
the oyster water. 



MEATS, &C. 15 

BAKED LOBSTER. 

Take the meat from the shell after it has been 
boiled, chop it fine, add/the yolks of three eggs 
boiled hard, mix it together with sweet oil, mus- 
tard, cayenne, &c., as for chicken sala^, wash the 
shell and put the ingredients into it with a small 
piece of butter, strew over it cracker crumbs and 
bake It in a moderately warm oven half an hour. 
Add a little salt. 



CHICKEN CELERY. 

Boil two chickens, when cold take the meat 
from the bones, chop it fine with the yolks of nine 
eggs boiled hard, two heads of celery chopped, 
add sweet oil, mustard, cayenne, a little salt, mix 
it well together. 

TO COOK A TERRAPIN. 

Put them into boiling water, let them stand till 
the nails will easily pull out, and the outer scftile of 
the shell will peel off with the black skin. Then 
wash them in some warm water and put in to boil 
again, until the shell will crack easily by striking 
it with a knife. Eemove the upper and under 
shell, take off the shoulders carefully, which will 
leave the liver and gall exposed, so that you can 
remove the gall and sand-bag. It must be done 



16 RECEIPTS. 

* 

with the greatest care, for if one particle gets in 
the meat, it will not be eatable. Then cut all up, 
allow a tea-spoonful of salt to every terrapin, the 
same of black pepper, red pepper and mustard, 
add some cloves and mace. Mix it well together, 
put a layer bf terrapin and a layer of seasoning 
alternately till all is in the stew-pan. Add the 
liquor that comes from them while cutting Jthem 
up, a pint of port wine, one pound of butter to 
six terrapins, with bits of butter and flour as you 
would to a chicken pie. Let them stew moder- 
ately and keep them closely coverec^ • Send them 
to the table in a deep covered dish. 

TO DRESS CALVES HEAD TURTLE. 

After the head and feet are clean, put them in a 
pot with the' inwards, and the brains tied in a 
cloth, with some salt, boil them two or three 
hours, then take the head, &c. out after you have 
skimmed it well, take out all the bones and strain 
the liquor. For seasoning, take salt, pepper, two 
or thfee onions chopped fine, sweet marjoram, 
thyme or summer-savory, cloves pounded and nut- 
meg to your taste. Put a layer of the meat in the 
pot and strew over some of the seasoning, then 
put another layer until all are in, pour over your 
liquor and put it over the fire fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Take the head out again and add to the 
browned flour a little red wine, three eggs well 



MEATS, &C. 17 

beaten, and a piece of butter, put this to the liquor 
and let it boil up. 

FORCE-MEAT BALLS. 

Take a pound of veal, half a pound of pork, the 
same of grated bread, season it with red or white 
pepper, parsely, mace and sweet herbs, put in as 
much wine and eggs as will make them soft enough 
to joU into balls, fry in hot fat, and put them in 
the soup. 

TO STEW SWEETBREADS. 

After picking and washing perfectly clean, put 
them in a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, one very 
small onion, and milk and water enough to cover 
them ; when done, which will be in about half an 
hour, take them out and thicken the gravy with 
some butter and flour, simmer them a little in a 
deep dish'with the gravy over them. 

FRENCH SOUP. 

Take the remains of cold beef, cut it up •fine, 
separate all the fat from it, break up the bones in 
small pieces, boil them three hours, strain and 
stand it to cool, scrape oft' the fat again, put it in 
the pot with cabbage, turnips, celery tops and any 
other vegetable you may have cut in very small 
pieces, season it with salt and red pepper; just 

B2 



18 RECEIBTS. 

before it is served, put in a few pieces of toasted 
bread, which will thicken it sufficiently. 

BEEF SOUP. 

• 

A hock of beef makes a nice soup, but it should 
boil four or five hours, put in two or three whole 
onions as soon as you have taken off the scum, 
then when it is nearly time to put in the vegeta- 
bles, cut the meat from the bone in small pieces, 
return them to the boiler, season with pepper, salt, 
and sweet herbs, put in some sliced carrots and 
potatoes; dumplings are an improvement to any 
soup that is made of meat or fowl, but more par- 
ticularly to beef soup ; they are best made with 
part potato, like the crust for apple-dumplings, but 
some make them like pie crust; they should be 
made small and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. 

VEAL SOUP. 

Put on your meat in tiiAe to get to boiling about 
two or two and a half hours before dinner — it de- 
pends on the size — add a piece of pork nicely 
prepared, an onion, a little piece of red pepper; 
about t^ree quarters of an hour before dinner, put 
in some . carrots and turnips cut small, and when 
they have boiled fifteen or twenty minutes some 
sliced potato and add salt if necessary ; you can- 
. not judge of the salt until you know how much 
boils out of the pork ; some like rice, it should be 



. v» 



MEATS, &C. ' 1^ 

put in with the meat, if you use it. If you do not 
use dumplings it is well to toast some slices of 
bread and put in; thicken with flour. Mutton 
soup can be made in the same way, but requires, 
more boiling. 

CHICKEN SOUP. - 

m 

Chickens about a year old make a good soup. 
Make a stuffing of dry bread soaked a few minutes- 
in cold water, so that it will chop easily, but do 
not let it get too wet, chop with a small piece of 
pork or butter, cayenne pepper and salt to the 
taste ; some like a little mace ; wash and wipe the 
chicken dry inside, put in your stuffing, sew it up 
firm, then truss it nicely and put it in to boil twa 
and a half or three hours ; put in a piece of pork 
and make the soup in the same way that you would 
of veal. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Wash about a quart * of clams very nice, put 
them in a colander and pour cold water over, put 
them on the fire with very little water and let them 
boil until the shells open, then turn the water inta 
a pitcher to settle, measure* a pint for thp soup,, 
take your clams from the shell, cut off the hard 
part arid rinse -them well in the remaining clam- 
water, if you have any, if not in salt and water ; 
then put on the clam water with a pint of jfump 
water and a little piece of red pepper ; when it 



20 * BECEIPT8. 

boils take off the scum and put in the clams with 
a pint of milk or a half pint of cream ; thicken it 
as you would other soup ; some like a little mace. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Take three dozen of oysters, strain the liquor, 
then aJd a, quart of water, one pint of cream and 
milk, piece of butter the size of an egg rubbed in 
flour, a little mace, some red pepper and salt, boil 
this ten or fifteen minutes, then add the oysters 
and give these a boil for a few moments. This 
quantity will make a tureenfuU. 

CHOWDER OF FISH OR CLAMS. 

Cut in slices some pork, try out the fat, put in 
two or three onions sliced, brown these and take 
all out but the liquor, skin the fish, cut it up, sea- 
son all with salt, red or black pepper. Peel and 
slice some potatoes, add with boiling water enough 
to cause them to boil about one half an hour, or 
until the potatoes and fish are done; thicken it 
with about two table-spoonsful of flour in a gill of 
cream. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak some nice white beans all' night, change 
the water, and put them on the fire ; when hot 
change again, add plenty of water and put them 
on to parboil. Put a piece of pork in another 



MEATS, &C. 21 

boiler and partly cook it, then put your pork in 
whatever you intend for your soup and put in 
plenty of water ; as soon as the beans begin to 
break, skim them out and put them with the pork, 
add a piece of red pepper pod, or some cayenne, 
the pod is best ; if the pork is like to be done too 
much it should be taken out ; at a suitable time put 
in some slices of turnip, and when they have boiled 
a while some potatoes, and twenty minutes before 
dinner some Indian dumplings; stir a thickening 
with a little flour and some fine Indian meal. K 
can be made with beef instead of pork, but it must 
be boiled a good deal before it goes into the soup 
or it will be too salt. 

CORN SOUP. 

Boil six ears of corn in just water enough to 
cover them ; after boiling until quite tender, take 
out the corn and cut it from the cob, put the cobs 
into the water again and boil an hour, take them 
out and put in the corn, a little red pepper and 
some salt, then add a quart of milk, make it boil 
and add a piece of butter rubbed with flour. 

ANOTHER. 

Grate corn from four ears, boil the cobs in a 
quart of water a few minutes, take them out, put 
in the corn, boil five minutes, add two beaten eggs, 
a .cup of milk, two spoonfuls of flour, salt and 
pepper, and boil up. 



22 RECEIPTS.' 

PEA SOUP. 

Soak over night one pint and a half of peas, 
add six quarts of water, one pound of pork, boil 
five or six hours. Strain through a colander, 
then add pepper, salt, and some more water if 
necessary. 

TO BAKE PORK AND BEANS. 

• 

Prepare the beans as directed for bean soup, 
then parboil a piece of pork and take the rind off 
carefully so as not to waste any, and cut it in very 
small squares on the top ; skim your beans out from 
the water and put them in a deep dish or iron 
basin, with a piece of red pepper and water to 
nearly cover them, make a place in the centre large 
enough to admit the pork, set them* in the oven to 
bake from an hour and a half to two hours, accord- 
ing to the quantity, add boiling water if they are 
like to get too dry. 

TO BOIL SALT MEAT. 

Wash your beef, pour cold water over and put 
it on the fire with a slow heat, take off the scum as 
it rises, and let it boil as much as three hours ; 
about two hours before dinner wash your pork, 
scrape the rind nicely and put it on in another 
boiler with a small piece of red pepper ; if you 
wish to boil cabbage, cut the head in quarters, 
wash and leave it in cold water until about an hour 



MEATS, &0. 23 

before dinner, then put it in to boil, if a large 
head give it more time ; in about ten minutes add 
the turnips, and twenty-five or thirty minutes be- 
fore dinner some peeled potatoes ; isome Indian 
dumplings would be very nice, boil them twenty 
minutes ; if you wish to cook beets or squashes 
they can be put in with the beef. If corned beef 
is used, it can all be put in the same boiler, but 
•the fat should be taken off before the vegetables 
are put in. 

TO COOK CODFISH. 

Cut up your fish, put it on the fire in cold water 
and let it heat very gradually, but it must not get 
too hot ; in about an hour scrape the fish very clean 
and get off all the skin, then put it in clean cold 
water ; peel your potatoes and put them on with 
the fish and plenty of water in season for them to 
get to boiling in time to be done for dinner ; the* 
potatoes are much better for boiling with the fish. 
I have seen fish soaked until it was quite tasteless. 
It wants to be served with drawn butter or pork 
cut fine and fried a light brown, boiled eggs, onions, 
beets, and squash, or stewed pumpkin. 

FISH BALLS. 

Take the fish that is left, pick out all the bones 
and chop it with the potatoes, and eggs if there 
are any, then put in the butter or pork, a little 



24 RECEIPTS. 

cayenne pepper, and mix all together with a spoon, 
make it up in flat balls and fry out pork enough 
to have plenty of fat, roll the balls in flour and 
fry them a Kght brown. You will find them very 
nice. 

A YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

To bake witb roast beef. To a quart of milk, 
add four eggs beat light, three cups of flour sifted 
and stirred into the milk with a little salt. An 
ho^r before dinner take out your beef and turn off 
the gravy, then turn in the pudding, and set in a 
little iron drainer made for the purpose, to rest the 
meat on, and set it back in the oven. 

INDIAN DUMPLINGS. 

Mix your meal with f^ater that almost boils, 
make them up and put them in to boil about twenty 
minutes moderately, they will come to pieces if 
they boil hard. Some prefer to stir up the meal 
with hot water and put it in a clean cloth, as they 
are apt to break if not properly managed. An 
hour will cook it in this way. 



FOR DESSEKT AND EVENING. . 25 

FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 

BOILED HUNTER'S PUDDING. 

Two pounds grated bread, two pounds of cur- 
rants, one pound of citron cut fine, one pound of 
suet, one of stoned raisins, half a pint of wine, 
two gills of brandy, one pound of -sugar, nine eggs, 
half an ounce of mace, cinnamon, cloves and nut- 
meg ; boil five hours. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, three fourths of beef suet 
chopped as fine as possible, three fourths of a 
pound of currants, one fourth of stoned raisins, 
five eggs, a little lemon peel grated, half of a nut- 
meg, one gill of cream, a little salt, two table- 
spoonfuls pf sugar, two of brandy ; mix them all 
together, and tie it up in a cloth ; two hours will 
boil it. Wine, sugar and butter for sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of molai^ses, one cup of suet chopped 
fine, one cup of raisins cut fine, three cups of flour 
and one of milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
of nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon. Boil in a cloth 
three hours. Sauce, whites of two eggs beat to a 
foam, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, flavor with 
brandy or wine. 



56 RECEIPTS. 

ALMOND yUDDING. 

Two pounds blanched almonds pounded with a 
little cream, one half a pound of sugar, and one of 
butter, beat together, the whites of seven eggs, a 
little grated bread or sponge cake ; wet with wine 
or a little rose water. 

WASHINGTON PUDDING. 

Bake a sponge cake in a mould just as it is 
wanted for dinner. When very hot spread some 
hard sauce of butter, sugar and wine over it. 
This will melt and soak into the cake. Take a 
handful of blanched almonds, split them in four 
pieces and stick them over the cake. Eat with 
cream, wine and sugar. Let the cake be served 
as hot as possible. Some prefer wine turned over 
the^cake instead of sauce, and to eat it with soft 
custard. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Three fourths of a pound of currants, one half 
pound of raisins chopped fine, one half pound of 
beef suet chopped fine, two table-spoonfuls of 
sugar, one dozen eggs well beaten, ope half of a 
nutmeg or other spice, the crumbs of the soft part 
only of one brickloaf of baker's bread made very 
fine. Mix the eggs and suet together, add the 
fruit, sugar and spice, then the bread crumbs. 
Mix all well together. Boil four and a half hours. 
Eat with wine sauce. 



FOR DESSEET AND EVENING. 27 

APPLE PUDDING. 

One quarter of a poiihd of butter, well beaten 
with the same of sugar, four eggs well beaten 
also ; mace or nutmeg, one pint of stewed apples, 
two large spoonfuls of grated bread and a glass of 
'vjrine. You may put less butter and more apples 
and bread, according to judgmen^. It requires no 
sauce. Bake in a pudding dish. 

• TAPIOCA PUDDING. ' 

Pick and wash one teacup full of tapioca, add 
five cups of milk, put it to heat, but not boil, 
when the milk is quite thick, add four eggs, a little 
salt, and bake an hour. Eat with sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Can be made in the same way as tapioca, using 
two eggs only. A very nice rice pudding can be 
made without any eggs and sweetened to eat with 
butter. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Eight ounces of pounded crackers, seven eggs, 
one quart of milk, six ounces of butter, six of 
sugar, three fourths of a pound of fruit, one glass, 
of wine or brandy, and spice to your tg,ste. Boil 
your milk and turn over the crackers, butter and 
sugar, when cold add the cyther ingredients. 



28 RECEIPTS. 

RICE CUPS. 

To a teacup full of ricfe put three cups of water, 
two of milk and a little salt, set it where it will 
have a boiling heat, but it must not boil, if it does 
it will stick to the bottom of the kettle. When 
done, beat an egg with a little white sugar and stir 
in while it is coqjliing with a small piece of butter ; 
when the egg is cooked dip it into cups, wetting 
them first with cold water, make a soft custard, and 
when the cups are cold, turn them into a diAi and 
turn the custard over them, or eat with sweetened 
cream flavored with wine and nutmeg. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Butter your pan very well, then lay a mixture 
of currants and citron, alternately with thick slices 
of bread and butter till your pan is nearly full, 
then pour on your custard ; half an hour will bake 
it. 



* 

I 



TO BAKE APPLES FOR DESSERT. 

Take nice ripe greening apples, peel them and 
cut out the cores, fill the place with white sugar, 
cut a strip of citron or lemon peel and put in with 
the sugar, set them in the oven and bake until they 
are soft. They are very nice to eat with cream 
for dessert, or to put pn the tea-table. 



I 



t" 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 29* 



QUINCES 

Are still better cooked in the same way without 
the flavoring. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Peel nice mellow greenings, cut them in two 
pieces and take out the core, then mash some 
potatoes and sift through a colander, put in a piece 
of butter and a little salt, then stir in milk to 
make it about as stiff as pound cake, add the white 
of an egg beat light, and mix in flour to make it 
hard enough to roll, make up your dumplings and 
put them in boiling water with plenty of room. 
They will cook in about half an hour. If the 
apples are large they had better be cut in quarters 
and two or three pieces put together for the 
dumpling. • 

WHORTLEBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Make a crust as you would for short biscuit, 
beat the white of one or two eggs very light and 
stir in to prevent their boiling to pieces, roll out 
pieces of a suitable size, put in the berries and 
close them tight, have the water boiling moderately 
all the time. They will cook in twenty minutes or 
a little mor^, and should be eaten as soon as they 
are done — give them plenty of room for they will 
rise in the kettle. Soda crust is best. 

02 



30 RECEIPTS. 

A NICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Take a bowl the size of the pudding you wish 
to boil, fill it up with slices of bread and butter, 
with cut raisins or currants strewed between ; when 
crowded full, boil milk and turn in, let it stand 
fifteen or twenty minutes, have your water boiling, 
set the bowl into the pudding cloth and tie it up 
very tight, then set it into the watet. The bowl 
must be kept right or the milk will run out. Boil 
from one to two hours, according to the size. 

ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. 

A quart of milk, four teaspoons of arrow-root, 
three eggs, butter the size of an egg. Boil the 
milk, then stir in the arrow-root dissolved and the 
eggs together. To be eaten with sauce. 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

Six apples pared and chopped fine, six ounces of 
bread crumbed very fine, six ounces of sugar, -^ix 
of currants, six eggs, salt and nutmeg. Boil it 
three hours. To be eaten with hard or soft sauce. 

A PLAIN FLOUR PUDDING. 

Eight eggs well beaten, a quart of milk, a little 
salt, flour to make a thin batter. Boil it two 
hours. 



FOB DESSERT. AND EVENING. 31" 

TROY PUDDING. 

Take of raisins, suet, molasses and milk^ one 
cup of each, three and one half cups of flour, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus ; boil it in a cloth three 
hours. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One cup and a half of* sugar, one half cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, four eggs, two tea-spoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, make as stiff 
as pound cakes, fruit if you please. It can either 
be baked or boiled one hour. 

INDIAN, OR GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk to eight large spoonfuls of 
veiy fine sifted Indian meal, or six of ground rice^ 
six eggs, and a piece of butter the size of an egg; 
sugar and spice to your taste, one wine-glass of 
wine or brandy with one pound of raisins or cur- 
rants. Bake it one and a half hours. Thicken 
the^milk with the meal or rice the same as for por- 
ridge. 

BIRD'S-NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core eight or ten apples, fill the mid- 
dle of them with sugar, make a batter of one quart 
of milk, six eggs,, four or five spoonfuls of flour, a 
little salt, pour it over the apples and bake it three 
fourths of an l\our ; serve with sauce. 



32 RECEIPTS. 

ICE PUDDING. 

• 

Boil one quart of milk, or milk and water ; then 
stir in four large table-spoonfuls of farina pre- 
viously dissolved in a part of the milk, continue 
the boiling from half an hour to an hour. When 
done, turn it into a jelly mould, and place it in ice 

or cold water to stiffen. • 

» 

PAKED PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk or water, and add the 
farina as above. While the mass is cooling, take 
four eggs and a half pound of sugar ; beat up well 
with a quart of milk and stir into the mass of the 
farina, which should be lukewarm at the time ; add 
spices if desirable. Put into pans and bake. 

DELMONICO PIE. 

Four table^spoonfuls of corn starch, one quart 
of milk ; wet the starch with a little of the milk, 
heat the remainder till nearly boiling, stir in the 
starch and boil a very few minutes, then turn into 
a dish, add the besrtien yolks of four eggs, sweeten 
and season as for custard. Line two small deep 
dishes with paste, pour the mixture in and bake 
till the custard is done. After they are taken from 
the oven let them cool, take the whites of four 
eggs and beat to a stiff froth, then flavor three 
table-spoonfuls of fine white sugar with lemon, or 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 35 

anything else preferred, stir well into the whites, 
and divide the mixture over the two pies. Ketum 
them to the oven only long enough to give them a 
delicate brown. 

DROP CAKES. 

One pint of cream, four eggs, one tea-spoonful 
of saleratus or soda, a little salt, flour for a rich 
batter. Eat with sauce. 

ANOTHER. 

« 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one tea-spoonful of 
soda, a little salt, a small piece of butter melted, 
and one pint of flour just sifted. Eat with sauce. 

BERRY PUDDING. 

One cup and a half of sugar, butter the size of 
an eggy one half pint of milk, one tea-spoonful of 
soda dissolved in milk, two tea-spoonsful of cream 
of tartar sifted in flour, three eggs, one pint of 
berries, make as stiff as pound cake. Boil two 
hours. 

WHITE POT. 

For a quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of flour 
and one of Indian meal, two of molasses and one 
egg ; scald the milk and stir in the above, beaten 
well together ; let it hang over a gentle fire one 
hour. 



34 RECEIPTS * 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Boil your milk, add a little salt, and stir in 
sifted flour while boiling, until it is stiff enough ta 
mould, keep stirring until well cooked, put in a 
bowl, and turn out to eat with sauce. Wet the 
bowl with cold water. 

« 

HASTY PUDDING. 

Boil some water and thicken with flour as. you 

would for thin starch ; sift some coarse meal and 

« 

stir in until it is quite thick ; keep it boiling all the 
time you are putting in the meal, which must be 
done gradually ; salt to the taste, boil it well. Put 
it in a bowl and turn out, eat with cream and mo-^ 
lasses. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

One quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of rice^- 
a piece of butter as big as a walnut, sugar to the 
taste. Bake two hours, and stir often while baking. 

RICE PIES. 

Ik 

One quart of milk, six eggs, one cup of sugar^ 
one cup of ground rice. Cook the rice a little in 
the milk, stirring it constantly while on the fire, 
and put the egg in when hot. The rind of two 
lemons, and the juice of one, or any flavor you 
choose. * 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 35 

« 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

Make a light hard sauce of butter, sugar and 
wine. Thicken some boiling water with a little 
flour; while boiling, turn it upon the sauce and 
stir it briskly. Send it hot to the table with the 
pudding, 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of butter, a 
heaping tea-spoonful of flour well beaten, add a 
cup nearly full of boiling water, and stir until it 
has boiled up once. 

ANOTHER. 

Beat the white of two eggs very light, then beat 

in sifted white sugar as you would for frosting, 

add a little melted butter, and flavor with wine and 

nutmeg, or any way you please, Extract of va- 

.nilla is very nice. 

ANOTHER.* 

Beat some sugar and butter very light, flavor 
with wine and nutmeg ; just before you want it for 
the table, put it on the fire and, stir all the time 
until it is melted. Send it foaming to the table. 

WINE SAUCE. 

A tea-cup of wine boiled ; one egg well beaten 
with a tea-cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, 
and some nutmeg ; stir all the time while boiling. 



« 



i? 



36 RECEIPTS. 

PIE CRUST. 

To three pounds of flour, add one pound of 
butter, one half a pound of lard, leave out butter 
enough to roll in once, mix it in with a spoon or 
knife, the less you work itr with your hands the 
better. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One and one fourth pounds of flour, leaving out 
one half pound to roll it out with. One pound of 
butter divided into four parts, cut one fourth into 
the flour mixed with one half pint of water, roll it 
out, then spread oni other fourth of the butter, 
sprinkle a little flour out of the half pound re- 
served, roll it out again, add butter and flour as 
before until it is all used. The above will make 
four pies. 

MINCE PIES. 

Take one pound ©f meat, one of suet, one of 
currants, one of sugar, spice to the taste, juice of 
a lemon ; wet with Madeira wine. 

■ 

ANOTHER. 

Take a neat's tongue, boil it, skin and chop it 
very fine; two pounds of suet, two pounds of 
apples, two of currants, two of raisins cut in halves 
and the seeds taken out, one half of a pound of 
citron cut fine, one large nutmeg, one half ounce 
of cinnamon, cloves and mace, the whole powdered 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 37 

very fine ; two pounds of sugar, one and a half 
pints of wine, one half pint of brandy, the peel 
grated and juice of a lemon. 

ANOTHER. 

Ten pounds of meat, five of suet, ten of apples, 
five of sugar, five of raisins, six nutmegs, four 
table-spoonfuls of cloves, six of cinnamon, four of 
mace, one pint of brandy and as much wine, eight 
table-spoonfuls of salt. 

CRACKER MINCE PIES. 

Fourteen crackers pounded, two cups of molas- 
ses and tWo of sugar, three cups of cider, two of 
seeded raisins, a tea-cup half full of butter, and 
spice to the taste ; the juice of one lemon. 

TURN OVER PIES. 

Cut some nice sour apples its you would for pies, 
put them in deep plates, roll a crust rather thick 
and put it over them. Bake half an hour or a 
little more, when cool take off the crust and turn • 
it over on another plate, sweeten the apple to the 
taste and stir in a little cream or butter, spread it 
smooth over the crust and grate on some nutmeg. 

WASHINGTON PIES. 

Take a round shallow tin, straight at the sides, 
(it must not slaht any.) If you want to make the 



38 RECEIPTS. 

crust of sponge cake, bake them about half an int^h 
thick and use two, putting the jelly or preserves 
between them. If you prefer pound cake, bake it 
twice as thick and cut it round and put in whatever 
you like ; strawberries are very nice for this pur- 
pose, but most people use jelly. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Three fourths of a pound of loaf sugar ; clarify 
and boil it to a thick syrup, grate the cocoanut 
into the syrup and boil it together for fifteen min- 
utes over a slow fire, stirring it all the time. Let 
it cool and add the yolks of thre^ or four eggs and 
a little rosewater, put a paste in your pans, fill and 
bake them. 

CHEESE CAKES. 

Take one pint of milk, let it boil, beat five yolks 
and two whites of eggs,, stir them in the milk, boil 
them until the curd is hard, squeeze it in a cloth 
until it is very dry. Add one half of a pound of 
blanched almonds, beat fine, mix it with the curd, 
half a pound of sugar, one fourth of a pound of 
butter melted in rosewater, four eggs, mix all well 
together and bake it in puff paste laid in small 
saucers. 

APPLE PUDDINGS. 

Two pounds of apple, after it is stewed and 
sifted ; one pound of sugar and three fourths of 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING, 39 

butter rubbed together ; seven eggs beat* separate- 
ly, the juice of an orange or lemon, a little of the 
peel grated, a glass of wine and spice if you like* 
Bake in a crust. 

POTATO PUDDINGS. 

Two pounds of potatoes after they are boiled 
and sifted, one pound of sugar and three fourths 
of butter rubbed together, seven eggs, the juice of 
an orange, a little wine, one nutmeg, half a pound 
of currants. Bake in a crust. 

PUMPKIN PUDDINGS. 

One quart of stewed and strained pumpkin, add 
nine eggs, three pints of cream, sugar, mace or 
nutmeg. If you have not cream use butter. Bake 
in a crust. 

LEMON PUDDINGS. 

The yolks of ten eggs, six ounces of sugar, six 
of butter, four spoonfuls of wine, four of cream, 
one York biscuit pounded very fine, two lemons 
grated with the juice of one. Garnish the dish 
with paste ; if you have almonds, one fourth of a 
pound instead of the biscuit, 

CREAM PIES. 

Boil one quart of milk and thicken it with flour, 
add three eggs, sweeten and flavor it to the taste. 
Bake between two crusts. 



40 BECEIFTS. 

LEMON PIES. 

Take the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one 
cup of butter, one of sugar, peel and juice of one 
lemon, a cup half full of milk with a tea-spoonful 
of corn-starch ; when baked, take the whites of 
three eggs, add four table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 
a little lemon juice. Spread over the pie and put 
it in the oven a few moments to harden. 

LEMON ■ PIES. 

Ten eggs, three cups of sugar, three and a half 
cups of milk, one half cup of butter, two lemons ; 
rub the butter and sugar together, then add juice, 
then eggs, and then milk. Grate some of the peel. 

WINE JELLY. 

To three ounces of gelatine put two quarts of 
water, the juice of six lemons, the peel of two 
grated, a little cinnamon, the whites of six eggs, 
one pound and three quarters of sugar, and one 
pint of wine ; mix the ingredients all together in 
cold water, then put it on the fire, stir it often to 
keep it from sticking to the bottom of the kettle, 
boil about five minutes, dip the flannel bag in clean 
hot water before using, and turn some through 
before the jelly is strained. It can be made with 
the juice of four lemons and one and a half pounds 
of sugar. It is rather a better way to add the 
wine after the jelly is strained. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING, 41 
ICE CREAM. 

One quart of milk, one of cream, one pound of 
sugar, six eggs, put the milk and cream over a 
slow fire, beat the eggs and sugar, and when the 
milk is. about ready to boil, stir them in and take 
it off, strain it, and when cool flavor to the taste. 
If you have not plenty of cream put in more eggs. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Put two pints of cream into two bowls ; with 
one bowl mix six ounces of powdered white sugar, 
the juice of two lemons and two glasses of wine ; 
then add the other pint of cream and stir the whole 
very hard ; boil two ounces of isinglass with four 
small tea-cups full of water till it is reduced to 
about one half; then stir the isinglass lukewarm 
into the qther ingredients and put all into a glass 
dish to congeal. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Ten eggs, one pint of cream, one ounce of isin- 
glass, one half pound of sugar, half pint of milk, 
half tumbler of white wine; separate the eggs, 
beating the yolks and whites lightly, mix the yolks 
and sugar together ; dissolve the isinglass in the 
milk on the fire, whip the cream lightly, flavor 
with a tea-spoonful of vanilla, stir slowly until it 
hardens, then put in moulds, having placed sponge 
cake round the sides ; after mixing sugar and eggs 

D2 



42 BEGEIFTS. 



together, stir in the cream, wine and varfilla, then 
the isinglass. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSB. 

Take three pints. of rich cream, three fourths of 
a pound of sugar, one and a half ounces of isin- 
glass dissolved in a pint of warm water, six eggs, 
yolks and whites beat separately, add the sugar to 
the cream and the yolks of the eggs, when well 
mixed pour in the isinglass while hot, add the 
whites, flavor it with vanilla, place the dish upon 
ice and salt, stirring it until it begins to thicken. 
Line the tin forms with sponge-cake or ladies- 
fingers, pour the cream into the dish and let it 
stand until firm enough to turn out. 



LEMON CUSTARDS. 

The yolks of eighteen eggs should be beat to 
look as white as cream, then grate the peel of one 
lemon and add the juice of two, sweeten to the 
taste. Pour one pint of boiling water to the lemon 
and sugar, then add the yolks, stir all together and 
strain through a sieve, put it in an earthen pitcher 
and set it into a kettle of boiling water, keep stir- 
ring until it thickens, then turn into jelly glasses. "^ 
It must be made very sweet. For sick persons, 
less lemon would be better. 



^ FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 43 

• ALMOND CUSTARD. 

Blanch and beat one pound of almonds with two 
spoonfuls of rose-water, add one pint of cream 
and the yolks of four eggs well beaten ; sweeten it 
to your taste. Place this mixture over the fire and 
stir until quite thick, then pour it into cups. Bake 
it or not, as you please; new milk will do if you 
have not cream. 

COLD CUSTARD. 

Take three pints of milk, stir in three or four 
table-spoonfuls of rennet wine, stir it and strain it' 
through a sieve into dishes, keep it in a warm 
place until it hardens. For saiice, take half a pint 
of cream, add a few spoonfuls of white wine and 
sugar. Grate nutmeg over both sauce and custard. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

Boil a quart of milk, beat seven eggs, turn the 
boiling, milk to the eggs, stirring all the time, 
sweeten to the taste, strain it into a pitcher, set 
the pitcher into boiling water, and let it boil until 
it thickens, S(|irring all the time for if it curdles it 
is spoiled ; flavor as you please, turn it into custard 
glasses. 

ARROW-ROOT CUSTARD. 

In Winter, when eggs are scarce, take two» table- 
spoonfuls of arrow-root mixed in a tea-cup full of 
cold milk, boil a quart of milk, beat three eggs 



44 RECEIPTS. 

and mix in the arrow-root, pour in the boiling 
milk, stirring all the time ; put it in. a pitcher and 
boil as before directed. 

BLANC MANGE. 

. To two quarts of milk, (wine measure,) add one 
box of gelatine and one half pound of sugar, put 
them all together over a slow fire, stirring it often 
until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain through 
a muslin sieve into a large pitcher and set it away 
to cool, stir it often to prevent the cream from ris- 
ing ; do not put it in the moulds until it begins to 
harden around the sides of the pitcher ; if you do, 
the cream will rise to the top and leave the other 
part like skimmed milk ; flavor to the taste ; vanilla 
is very nice, but must not be put in when it is hot. 

ARROW-ROOT BLANC MANGE. 

To a quart of milk take four table-spoonfuls of 
arrow-root, leave out cold milk sufficient to wet. 
the arrow-root and put the other on to boil, when 
it boils stir in your thickening with very little salt ; 
keep it stirring a few minutes on the fire to cook 
thoroughly, sweeten and flavor to the taste. Very 
little sugar is necessary if you eat it with cream- 
sauce, Jbut more if you want to use clear cream. 
Farina blanc mange can be made in the same 
way. 



FOR DESSEBT AND EVENING. 45 
CREAM CAKES. 

One half a pound of butter, one pound of flour, 
ten eggs, one pint of boiling water, pour the water 
boiling on the butter, set it on the fire and when it 
boils again, stir in the flour. Beat the eggs and 
mix with the dough, stir until almost cold, then 
with a spoon drop the cakes very thin into the pan 
for baking. Then take one cup of flour, two of 
sugar, one quart of milk, four eggs ; boil the milk, 
' beat the flour sugar and eggs together and stir 
them into the milk while boiling till suflS.ciently 
scalded ; flavor with lemon or whatever you like. 
When the cakes are baked, open them a little at 
the side, and put in as much of the mixture as you 
can. 

PORCUPINE. 

Bake a round loaf of sponge cake the size of the 
dish you want to use, wet it with wine, then make 
a soft custard and turn over it, have some nice 
blanched almonds and stick them all over the top, 
the smallest end up. It makes a very pretty dish. 
You will find it very nice pudding without the 
almonds. 



46 RECEIPTS. 

BREAKFAST AND TEA, 

SPONGE WHITE BREAD. 

Take a quart of warm water and sift in flour 
enough to make a stiflf batter, add half a tea-cup 
full of yeast and set in a warm place to rise ; when 
very light, stir in a little salt, and flour sufllcient 
to put it in the pans, but it must not be mixed 
hard, set it in a warm place to rise again light, but 
not too long to get sour. If your sponge should 
get acid, put in a little soda ; if the yeast is sweet 
and the bread mixed at the proper time, it is better 
without if. Some prefer to have a little new .milk 
put in when the bread is mixed, not into the sponge. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Can be made in the same way. To one quart of 
graham meal put one pint of flour, a table-spoonful 
of brown sugar and a little salt. 

SODA BREAD. 

To one quart of flour put one tea-spoonful of 
soda an(J two of cream of tartar heaped a little 
more than the soda ; if water is used, put in a 
small piece of butter, dissolve the soda in warm 
water, add a little salt. For short biscuit add 
more butter. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 47 

SHORT BISCUIT. 

To one quart bowl of raised dough perfectly 
sweet, put one quarter of a poun4 of melted but- 
ter, and set in a warm place to rise again ; it must 
not be worked any more ; roll it out as carefully as 
you can. Bake in a quick oven ; if you wish them 
very short, add more butter. 

ANOTHER. 

To one quart bowl of raised dough, add one half 
pound of butter, roll out the dough and spread on 
the butter dn two or three rollings, dredging in 
flour each time ; cut them out and let them rise a 
little while in the pans before you bake them. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take one and a half pints of bread in the sponge, 
two eggs, one tea-spoonful of white sugar, one 
tea-cup of flour, one half tea-spoonful of soda ; let 
it stand one hour before baking. 

LITTLE PUDDINGS. 

Half a pint of cream, one table-spoonful of flour, 
one of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and a little 
nutmeg ; fill the teacups half full and bake in a 
quick oven. When turned out, shake a little sugar 
over them. 



48. EECEIPTS. 

BKOWN BREAD. . 

Take of Indian meal sifted through a coarse wire 
sieve two or three quarts, scald it with boiling 
water and set it to cool, then take an equal quantity 
of graham meal, make a sponge with about half of 
it, a little new yeast and warm water, when light 
mix all together with a little molasses and put it in 
the pan and let it stand awhile to rise, but not to 
sour. Bake three or four hours. If you use rye 
meal, one third rye and two thirds Indian is best. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Take a pint of Indian meal, scald it with water, 
then add some milk as quick as you can before it 
hardens, stir in two or three eggs and a little salt ; 
make it about as stiff as griddle cakes and bake it 
thin in a quick oven ; when done "cut it into square 
pieces. Some like a little sugar. 

ANOTHER. 

Take a quart of scalded milk, a pint of Indian 
meal; when cool add two eggs, salt, and bake 
them. 

aALLY LUNN. 
» •» 

Three pints of flour, one pint of new milk, one 
cup of white sugar,' one fourth of a pound of but- 
ter, one gill of yeast, three eggs and a little salt ; 
rub the butter into the flour, warm the milk and 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 49 

pour it on the flour and butter, beat the eggs and 
sugar well together and add them with the yeast,* 
beat the whole well and set it to rise. I think it 
rather better to mix the milk, flour and yeast 
together, and let them rise, then add the rest and 
rise again. 

CREAM TEA CAKES. 

One pint of cream, two or three eggs, a little 
salt, half a tea-spoonful of pearlash, flour enough 
to make a batter just stiff enough to dip into pans.^ 
Bake them quickly. 

MUFFINS. 

One quart of new milk just warm, add sifted 
flour sufficient to make a batter, and a cup half full 
of Qweet yeast; when risen add four eggs, beat 
light, two table-spoonfuls of melted butter. Grid- 
dle cakes can be made in the same way, only not so 
thick ; with or without sugar as you please. 

WAFFLES. 

One pound of flour, one half of butter* four 
eggs, one gill of 'yeast, and a little sugar. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE XAKES. 

Three coffee-cups of sifted Indian meal, one 
coffee-cup of rye meal, - Graham or wheat flour, two 
table-spoonfuls of yeast and a salt-spoon of salt ; 
wet at night with nearly a quart of water, and in 



50 RECEIPTS. 

the morning add a tea-spoonful of (Jissolved sale- 
ratus. If Graham flour is used, add a very little 
molasses. 

* SODA MUFFINS. 

One quart of milk, flour enough to make the 
batter of suitable thickness, piece of butter half 
the size of an egg melted into a little of the milk ; 
one tea-spoonful of soda and two of cream of 
tartar. 

GRAHAM SODA BISCUIT. 

One quart of Graham flour, one tea-spoonful of 
soda dissolved in two thirds of a tea-cup full of 
molasses ; mix with milk and water. 

WAFFLES AND FLANNEL CAKES. 

' One quart of milk, from three to five eggs, 
nearly a tea-cup of yeast, a piece of butter about 
the size of an egg, flour enough to make a soft 
batter. Mix the milk, yeast and flour well to- 
gether^ and place it in a warm place to rise. In 
winter it will require about six hours, and in 
summer about four to rise. When the time has 
half elapsed stir in the butter, which should be 
melted, and the eggs well beaten ; allow it to rise 
for the remainder of the time. If a piece of raised * 
dough is used, it will be sufliciently light in half 
the time. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 51 



GERMAN TOAST. 



Two eggs, one pint of milk, and flour enough to 
make a thick batter, cut wheat bread into very thin 
slices, and soak them in sweetened water; cover* 
each side successively with the batter, and fry 
brown in lard. Eat while hot with butter and 
white powdered sugar. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil a quart of milk and stir in four table-spoon- 
fuls of Indian meal and four of grated bread or 
crackers, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, 
a piece of butter as large as a walnut and a little 
salt. Bake it three hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts of boiled milk poured upon meal 
enough to make it quite thick, add a little cold to 
thin it; suet, chopped very fine, should be rubbed 
into the meal with a spoon before the milk is ad- 
ded ; molasses and salt to the taste. 

A VERY SIMPLE INDIAN PUDDING. 

Cut and chop eight or ten sweet apples, put 
them on the fire with two quarts of milk, when it 
boils stir in meal until it is about as thick as hasty 
pudding, then add a little cold milk and molasses, 
salt to the taste ; let it stand in the oven all night. 
Bake in an earthen dish. 



52 RECEIPTS. 



CORN PUDDING. 



To two dozen ears of corn grated, put three eggs, 
sugar and salt to the taste, a very little flour or 
, pounded cracker, milk according to your judg- 
ment ; if the corn is young it takes very little. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

To one pint of milk, three eggs, a little sugar 
and salt, flour, and fine Indian meal enough to 
thicken them to fry, three or four apples cut fine. 
Drop them in hot lard. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Two teacups of rice, boil it, add four eggs, a 
dredging box of flour, drop the batter into hot fat, 
keep them stirring all the time, eat them with wine 
and sugar, or make a sauce of butter, wine, &c., 
as sauce for pudding. 

RYE AND INDIAN DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint of Indian meal scalded with milk, one 
pint of rye meal, one half pint of molasses, one 
gill of yeast, three eggs, four ounces of butter, a 
little spice, and as much flour as will knead it to the 
consistency of rye and Indian bread. 

RYE AND INDIAN DROP CAKES. 

One pint of Indian meal, one half pint of rye 
meal, two eggs, two spoonfuls of molasses, a little 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 53 

salt ; work it with cold milk so as to drop from a 
spoon into hot fat ; be sure to h^ve a smooth batter. 

r 

GRIDDL'lE CAKES. 

One half pint fine Indian meal, scalded with 
milk, three spoonfuls of cream or butter, two of 
sugar, four eggs and a little floiir. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

To one pint of grajted corn, add two eggs and a 
piece of butter half the size of an egg, a little 
milk, salt and flour; they, may be baked on the 
griddle, or dropped into hot lard. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Made in the same way, leaving out the sugar, 
and season with pepper and salt, and put in a little 
more butter. 

INDIAN BANNOCK. 

Scald one pint of very fine meal, so carefully as 
to have no lumps ; add to it one quart of milk, six 
eggs, a very little sugar, and a little salt. 

ANOTHER. 

One pint of Indian meal, pour ♦on it one pint of 
boiling milk, then add one pint of cold milk, four, 
five or six eggs, as convenient, salt t# the taste ; 
bake in tin pans three quarters of an hour. 

'E2 



54 KECEIPTS. 

WINDHAM CAKE. 

Three cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, 
one half cup of molasses .or sugar, a tea-spoonful 
of saleratus or soda, a little salt, three eggs ; mix 
with milk enough to pour. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

One cup of flour scalded with one cup of water, 
three cups of warm water, one of molasses, two of 
rye, one cup of yeast, made to a stiff batter, with 
flour and a little salt. Bake in muflSn rings. 

MUFFINS. 

• 

One cup of dough, four eggs, one and one half 
pints of milk, make a stiff batter with flour, three 
spoonfuls of melted butter, a little salt, a t^a- 
spoonful of sugar, one half tea-spoonful of salera- 
tus just before baking. Bake in tin rings. The 
dough should be mixed with the milk an hour 
before the other ingredients are added. 

RICE CAKES. 

Take a large teacup full of rice well picked and 
washed, boil it with water until quite soft, add a 
piece of butter the size of an egg ; when the rice 
is cold beat four eggs, (the whites separate,) a 
little flour ior thickening, then add your milk and 
cream, and when mixed to a pretty thick batter. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 55 

add the whites of the eggs.well beaten, a little salt, 
sugar and spice. Bake them on a griddle. 



DROP CAKES. 

« 

Three cups of sifted flour, three cups of rich 
milk, three well beaten eggs, half fill the cups with 
the batter. Bake twenty-five minutes. 

TEA CAKES. 

Make a sponge in the morning as you would for 
bread, with a pint of warm water and half a tea- 
cupful of yeast, set it in a warm place to rise about 
two hours before tea ; have ready four nice boiled 
potatoes, mash them fine, and put in a piece of 
butter nearly as large as a hen's egg, sift it through * 
a wire sieve, and stir it into the sponge; add a 
little salt if necessary, and a tea-spoonful of white 
sugar, put in sufficient flour to make it about as 
thick as drop cakes. They should be made stiffer 
than muffins as there are no eggs in them. The 
sponge must not be stirred again after the second 
rising, but dipped carefully into little tea-cake tins 
or muffin rings and baked quick ; if there seems ta^ 
be any soda needed it should be put in with the 
potato. If they are made right they are excellent, 
greatly superio^ to the tea cakes made of cream of 
tartar and soda. 



56 RECEIPTS. 

FATAL .BISCUIT. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of 
taiiar, three eggs beat light, a little sugar, and a 
piece of butter 'the size of an egg; bake in tea 
cake tins or muflln rings. 

APPLE POT PIE. 

Peel and quarter your apples, put them in a pot, 
then turn a half pint of boiling water to a teacup 
full of sugar, strain it into the apple ; have a crust 
ready of nice light dough, as for bread, .either 
made of soda or raised with a little piece of butter 
worked in, cut it in pieces about as large as a tea7 
cup and place them round the sides of the pot, and 
some in the centre if necessary. Let it cook quite 
*fast at first, and then more gradually, or it will 
burn. It will be done in about three quarters of 
an hour. It is a nice way to partly cook your 
apples and then turn them into a deep earthen dish, 
lay your crust cut in small pieces over the top and 
set it into the oven to bake, when the crust is a 
nice light brown, cover a plate over the top to pre- 
vent it from getting too hard. The crust requires 
*a little more shortening if it is baked. 

BAKED WHORTLEBERRY HOLLOW. 

Take some nice light dough prepaf'ed as for short 
biscuit, line the sides of a deep dish, wash your 



CAKES, &C. 5T 

berries and drain them in a sieve or colander, put 
them in with some sugar, a small piece of butter^ 
and shake a little flour over, roll your crust out 
thick and lay on, pressing close at the edge, cut a 
cross in the centre to keep it from bursting out at 
the side. Bake with a good heat at the bottom^ 
from an hour to an hour and a half; if it i» getting- 
too brown at the top, cover with a paper. Eat 
with butter. 



CAKES, &o. 

BLACK CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of butter, twelve eggs, leave out the whites 
of six, two pounds of currants, two pounds of 
raisins, one and one fourth pounds of citro«, three 
nutmegs, one tea-spoonful of mace, a wine glas» 
three times full of brandy, one tea-spoonful of cin- 
namon ; cut the citron in slices and put in a layer 
of cake and a layer of citron until it is all used* 
Bake gradually four or five hours. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One and one half pounds of flour, one and one- 
half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, thiiee: 



58 RECEIPTS. 

pounds of currants and raisins, three nutmegs,, 
mace and cinnamon, teacup twice full of milk, one 
wine-glass of brandy, eight eggs, three fourths of 
a pound of citron cut fine. Bake from two and a 
half to three hours in two loaves. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

• 

One and one half pounds of flour, one and one 
half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, two 
and one half pounds of fruit, one half pound of 
citron cut fine, eight eggs, teacup twice full of 
milk, three nutmegs, one table-spoonful of cinna- 
mon. 

LADY CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, fourteen ounces of flour, 
twelve ounces of butter, four ounces of almonds, 
a few of them bitter, or a tea-spoonful of extract 
of bitter almonds, the white of eighteen eggs beat 
very light. Bake gradually. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Nine eggs, their weight in sugar, the weight of 
six in flour, the peel and half the juice 'of a small 
lemon. Beatihe yolks and sugar well together,^ 
then beat the whites very light and add ; stir in the 
flour carefully. Bake gradually with but little heat 
at the top. 



CAKES, &C. 59 

ALMOND SPONGE CAKE, 

Made in the same way, only add a teacup half 
full of pounded almonds, and flavor with bitter 
almonds. 

CITRON CAKE. 

Eight eggs, their weight in flour, the same of 
«ugar, the weight of five in butter, a little mace, 
chop some citron fine and put in a layer of cake 
and a layer of citron alternately. 

* 

RAISED CAKE. 

Three pounds of raised dough*, one pound of 
sugar, three fourth pounds of butter, one and one 
half pounds of raisins, one wine-glass of brandy, 
one table-spoonful of cinnamon, five eggs, beat 
well the butter, sugar and eggs, then add the 
dough, which should be made with yeast and per- 
fectly sweet. 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
half pound of butter, five eggs, one gill of brandy, 
one gill of cream or milk, one pound of currants 
or raisins, spice to your taste ; add the butter to 
the sugar and rub them well together, beat the 
eggs well, add some citron to improve it. Bake 
two hours and try it. 



^ BECEIPTS. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of eggs, three fourths of a pound off butter^, 
three fourths of a pound of currants, one fourth of 
a pound of citron cut fine, a little nutmeg. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three 
fourths of a pound of butter, one pound of eggs, 
m, very little mace. 

RAISED CAKE. 

Four pounds of flour, two and a half of sugar, 
two of butter, one quart of milk, one*half pint of 
wine, two gills of yeast, eight eggs, two nutmegs, 
two tea-spoonfuls of cinnamon ; make up the flour, 
jeast and milk like bread ; when very light, add 
the other ingredients and put into deep pans and 
let it stand a little* while to rise ; one pound of 
currants, two of raisins. . 

RICH LOAF CAKE. 

Twelve pounds of flour, six pounds of butter, 
seven pounds of sugar, a quart of wine, a quart of 
yeast and a pint of water, forty eggs, eight pounds 
of currants, four ounces of spice, (mace, cloves 
and nutmeg.) Make a sponge of eight pounds of 
flour, four of butter, a quart of yeast, twenty eggs, 
s, pint of water ; when risen, add 'seven pounds of 



OAK£S, &G. 61 

sugar, two of butter beaten together with twenty 
eggs, like short cake, four pounds of flour, one 
quart of wine, eight pounds of currants and the 
spice. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Nine pounds of flour, three of butter, five of 
sugar, three of currants or raisins, one quart of 
milk, one quart of yeast, one pint of wine, one 
ounce of spice ; a sponge made with two pounds 
of flour, one . half pint of yeast is a better way, 
observing how much water or milk is used. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of raisins, three fourths of a pound of 
butter, eight eggs, one gill of wine, one lemon, 
one nutmeg ; first stir the butter and sugar well 
together, then add the lemon, then the yolks, 
when well mixed put in the raisins, wine and nut- 
meg*, then the whites, then the flour, stir as little 
as possible after the flour is added, and bake it 
immediately. 

ANOTHER. 

Nine pounds of flour, nine of sugar, seven and 
a half of butter, ten of raisins, eight of currants, 
three of citron, forty-two eggs, two ounces of 
mace, nine nutmegs, cloves as you please, one 
and a half pints of brandy, one and a half pints of 
wine. 



'62 BEGEIPTS. 

WHORTLEBERRY CAKE. 

Three cups of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus^ two eggs, a little salt, one and one half 
cups of sugar, one half cup of butter, flour to 
make it like pound cake, berries as you like, and 
spice to the taste. 

POOR MAN»S CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tea-spoonful of dry cream 
of tartar, one half a tea-spoonful of soda dissolved 
in the milk, one egg, a little cinnamon, and flour 
to make it as stiff as pound cake. 

SAMPSON CAKE. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, two 
of butter, twenty eggs, five pounds of currants, 
half a pint of brandy, two pounds of citron, one 
cup of molasses, spice to the taste. 

RAISED DOUGH CAKE. 

Three pounds raised dough, one pound of but- 
ter, one and a half pounds of sugar, six eggs, one 
glass of brandy, two pounds of fruit, spice as you 
like. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

One and three fourths pounds of flour, one and 
one fourth of sugar, three fourths of butter, four 



CAKES, &C. 63 

eggs, one pint of new milk, one gill of brandy, 
ftnit and spice according to your liking. 

CIDER CAKE. 

Two pounds of flour, one -of sugar, one half a 
pound of butter,. one pint of cider, one pound of 
raisins, some spice, two table-spoonfuls of pearl- 
ash; inib the flour and butter together, put the 
sugar into the cider, and bake immediately. 



CUP CAKE. 

Five tea-cups of flour^ three of sugar, one of 
butter, one of cream, font eggs, three fourths of 
a pound of currants, one nutmeg. 

NAPLES BISCUIT. 

One pound of sugar, three fourths of flour, 
eight eggs, leaving out the whites of three ; drop 
on tin sheets and bake quick; flavor as you choose. 

MACAROONS. 

One and one fourth pounds almonds blanched 
and pounded, one pound of sugar,* the whites of 
two large or three small eggs beat very light, add 
the sugar, gradually beating it all the time, stir in 
tiie almonds and make them up with a teaspoon, 
and bake gradually a light brown. 



^4 ' BEOBIPTS. 



COCOANUT CAKES 



Can be made in the same way as macaroons, with 
grated cocoanut. Stir in a little flour. 



KISSES. 

Beat the white of eggs very light, and then beat 
in sugar as for frosting. Flavor as you please ; a 
little extract of vanilla is nice. Drop them very 
small on white paper, and bake' gradually. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the white of eggs to a froth, sift your sugar 
through a muslin sieve, put in little at a time, 
beating it well until sufficiently stiflT, add lemon 
juice to the taste, and beat it up very light ; if you 
get it too thick to be smooth, add the. white of 
another egg to make it right. Loaves of fruit cake 
should have one coat of frosting as soon as taken 
from the oven j when cool, add another and mark 
it off with a knife for cutting. It will take six or 
eight eggs for a square ten pound loaf of wedding 
cake. Light cake that is not to be frosted at the 
sides, can be done at any time. 

Gt)LD AND SILVER CAKE. 

Gold and silver cake can be made like pound 
cake — use the whites of the eggs for the silver,, 
and the yolks for the golden. Flavor as you choose ; 



CAKES, &0. 65 

extract of bitter almond is nice for the silver, and 
lemon for the golden. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Four eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of but- 
ter, one of milk, five of flour, spice and fruit as 
you like. • 

BREAD CAKE. 

Three cups of dough, three eggs, three Gups of 
sugar, one and a half of butter, one nutmeg, fruit 
to your liking. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, three eggs, . 
and a little extract of lemon. 

SODA CAKE, 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, two of flour, one' 
half cup of butter, the same of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, half a tea-spoonful of 
soda. 

SUGAR CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs, 
flour enough to spread thin on tin sheets, sift coarse 
white sugar over and bake quick ; then cut into 
square pieces. Add a little soda or saleratus if 
you choose. 

F2 



€6 BEOEIPTS. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of milk, 
two and a half cups of sugar, one. of butter, one 
tea-spoonful of soda. Beat sugar and butter 
together, spice to your taste. Bake in a loaf. 

WHORTLEBERRY CAKE. 

Six cups of light dough, three cups of sugar, 
one of butter, three eggs, one pint and a half of 
whortleberries, cinnamon to the taste. No. salera- 
tus if the dough is sweet. 

BUNS. 

Pour a pint and a half of boiling water to two 
cups of brown sugar and a little cinnamon, strain 
it through a sieve, and stir a sponge as for bread 
with half a cup of yeast ; set it in a warm place to 
rise; when very light, add a teacup about two 
thirds full of butter, and flour sufficient to roll them 
out and cut like short biscuit, then put them in the 
pans and let them rise light before they are baked. 
The veast must be new. 

JUMBLES. * 

One and one fourth pounds of flour, three fourths 
of sugar, three eggs, a little nutmeg, three fourths 
of a pound of butter. Eoll them in sugar. 



CAKES, &C. 67 



SOFT JUMBLES. 



Two teacups of sugar, one of butter, one of 
cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, one egg, a 
little nutmeg. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 



Three cups of sugar, one and a half cups of 
butter melted, two table-spoonfnls of dissolved 
saleratus, one of ginger, one and a half cups of 
milk ; mix stiff enough to roll in thin sheets. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one of milk or water, one 
6gg> a cup two thirds full of butter, a very little 
spice, a teaspoon even full of dry soda ; roll thin 
and bake quick. 

GINGER CAKES. 

Two and one half pounds of flour, three fourths 
/ of butter, one pint of molasses, five table-spoon- 
fuls of ginger ; rub the butter and sugar together ; 
then roll them out very thin and cut them into 
rounds, place them on tin sheets and bake them 
well and they will keep good a year. 

• 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One teacup of sour cream or milk, two teacups 
of sugar, one of butter, four eggs, one tea-spoon- 
ful of saleratus, spice to the taste. 



68 RECEIPTS. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three 
eggs, one heaping table-spoonful of butter, one 
tea-spoonful of dissolved saleratus, spice to the taste. 

ANOTHER. 

Three cups of raised dough, two cups of sugar, 
three eggs, two table-spoonfiils of butter; if made 
of sweet raised dough it needs no saleratus ; work 
in flour to make as stiff as white bread, and let 
them rise an hour or two before they are fried. 

m 

ANOTHER. 

Four eggs, two heaping teacups of sugar, two 
of milk, eight table- spoonfuls of melted butter, 
two tea-spoonfuls of saleratus, one nutmeg. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One quarter of a pound of sugar, one quarter of 
a pound of butter, the same of lard, beat them 
well together, one pint of molasses, two table- 
spoonfuls of ginger, one tea-spoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a wine-glass o^ milk, flour suflSicient to 
roll them thin, and bake quick. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

Two cups^ of molasses, one of milk or water, a 
table-spoon heaping full of butter, ginger to the 
taste, a tea-spoonful of soda not very much heaped 

, f i . , i -i i ■" *' ' ' '^- 









■^ ■ ^ \ ' 



<> t 



CAKES, &C. 69 

but more than even full. For soft gingerbread 
stir as stiff as you can with a spoon and put it in 
the pan ; for hard, work in flour enough to roll. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

To be made in the same way, with not quite as 
^ much soda, and a little more butter .^^ ^\.^ ^ ^v . ^ ir^4tw f 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

Pour pounds of flour, three of sugar, one and 
one half of butter, one fourth of a pound of ginger, 
ten eggs, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, seeds if 
you like. 

ANOTHER. 

One coffee cup of molasses, two or three table- 
spoonfuls of milk or water, according to the thick- 
ness of the. molasses, two table-spoonfuls of dis- 
solved saleratus, two large table-spoonfuls of but- 
ter, one half spoonful of ginger and a little salt, 
flour enough to roll. Make in two cakes and bake 
about twenty minutes. 









^ 


* 














s,' V .« 


/ 


'5 / / / 

V- 






% 


> 


1 


J 

1 

• 




; 


^ ; 




*-^ 


*% 


> ^' 




rt 


c . 






Uf 


. 






ft 


\' 


> 


,^ 








'/ 


9 


L . " ■ 




■V. 


r • 


;it fr 


- 


' ■ 



70 BECEIPTS, 

PEESERVES. 

TO PRESERVE PLUMS. 

Take the peel from nice ripe plums ; if they are 
very sweet, the same quantity of sugar is sufficient ; 
(some are so sour that they require a pound and a 
quarter of sugar to one pound of fruit ;) put the 
plums and sugar together to make a syrup, let 
them stand all night, then turn all together into 
the kettle and cook them slowly until they are 
clear, taking the scum off as it rises ; turn theim 
out and let them stand all night; if the syrup 
seems thin, strain it from the plums, put it on to 
boil and put in sugar to make it thick. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

Peel and weigh your peaches; add as many 
pounds of sifted white sugar as there are of the 
peaches, let them stand all night, then pour off the 
syrup and pi;t it on to boil ; skim it well and put 
in the peaches, cook them slowly until they are 
clear, then take them out and place them separately 
on a dish to drain. If the syrup seems nice and 
thick, turn it out to cool ; if not, add a little sugar 
and let it boil awhile ; set it away until next day ; 
then put in small jars or tumblers and cover with 
brandy pp-per ; a few peach leaves or pits boiled iji 
the syrup improve the flavor. Free-stone peaches 
are better than cling-stone to preserve ; they can 



PRBSBBVES. 71 

he cat in two, or preserved whole if the stones are 
white, but if they are red they will color the syrup 
and had better be taken out. 

TO PRESERVE CITRON MELON. 

Peel and cut the melon in slices ; boil some 
water with ^. few peach leaves and a little piece 
of alum ; put in the melon and let it boil until it is 
soft ; soak it an hour in cold water ; make a syrup 
.of as many pounds of sugar as there are of the 
melon, and put in lemons according to the quantity 
you are preserving ; skim the syrup, put the melon 
in and let it boil twenty minutes. K the syrup 
seems thick when cold you can turn all out to- 
gether ; if not, let it boil more and add a little 
sugar. When cold, it is very much improved by 
a little preserved ginger root. 

TO PRESERVE QUINCES. 

Take the best of your quinces, peel and cut them 
in halves or 'quarters ; take out all the hard part 
and throw them into cold water ; then weigh two 
or three pounds at a time and put them into boil- 
ing water over a good fire, that they may boil 
quickly at first, then cook more slowly until they 
are quite soft ; take them out and place separately 
on a dish, weigh two or three pounds of sugar, the 
saine quantity that you have of quinces, and make a 
thick syrup, using equal parts of clear water and 



72 EECEIPTS. 

the water in which the quinces were boiled ; when 
the scum is taken off put them in and cook slowly 
until they are thoroughly penetrated with the 
sugar, then turn out all together. Take two or 
three pounds more of quinces, making a new syrup, 
and go on in the same way till all • are done. You 
will find it a better way than to keep boiling in the 
same syrup ; when cold put it in small jars and 
cover with brandy paper. 

MARMALADE. 

Take the poorest of the quinces, cut them in 
halves and take out just the core, then boil them 
soft, rub them through a sieve, and put three quar- 
ters as much sugar as there is quince, put them in 
a kettle and cook about twenty minutes, stirring it 
all the time ; put it into bowls or moulds. 

FEACH MARMALADE 

Can be made in the same way, either soft or 
hard. Peaches that will not do to preserve will 
answer for marmalade. 

TO PRESERVE CHERRIES. 

To one pound of cherries, add one and a quarter 
pounds of sugar, wet the sugar with the juice of 
currants and boil it until the sugar is dissolved ; 
then put the chen'ies in, and when they become so 
clear that you can see the stones, they are done. 



PRESERVES. 73 

ANOTHER. 

The stones can be taken out and a little more 
sugar than there is of the cherries put to them ; let 
it stand all night to make a syrup, then turn the 
syrup into the kettle, and when it boils put in the 
cherries and cook them until quite soft ; if the 
syrup seems thin, add a little more sugar. 

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. 

Pick and wash the strawberries, then put them 
on a sieve or colander to drain ; when quite dry 
add as many pounds of sifted sugar as there are of 
strawberries. Let them stand all night, then put 
all together in a kettle and boil very slow and take 
the scum off as it rises. When they are done, dip 
them hot into small jars or tumblers, and next day 
cover with brandy paper; if you have a larger 
quantity than you can cook at one time, put theni 
in separate dishes to make the syrup, as you might 
not get the right proportion of sugar if you divide 
it after the jBUgar and fruit are put together. 

CURRANTS PRESERVED, 

In the same way, adding a little mOre sugar. 



TO PRESERVE PINEAPPLES. 

One pound of sugar to one pound of pineapple, 
eut them in slices, strew the sugar between them, 
and let them stand all night ; then boil the syrup. 



74 beceiptS. 

• 

put in the fruit and boil it about three minutes, 
take them out and lay them on a dish ; boil the 
syrup again and pour on hot, let it stand till the 
next day, then boil the syrup, put in the fruit and 
boil three minutes as before ; boil the syrup and 
pour it on hot and continue to do so every day 
until it is transparent. Put up in small quantities 
and keep entirely from the air. 

BRANDY PEACHES- 

One half a pound of sugar to one pound of 
peaches ; peel the peaches and put them in cold 
water, put them over the fire until they are tendei: 
enough to pierce with a straw ; then put them in 
* cold water for a few minutes, take them out sepa- 
rately to drain ; make a syrup, when it is boiled 
put in the peaches, boil ten minutes, again take 
them out and boil the syrup. Put the brandy on 
the peaches, an equal quantity of brandy and syrup. 

TO PRESERVE GRAPES. 

After they are picked from the stems, slip them 
from the skins, put the pulp in a kettle with very 
little water, and boil until they will strain through 
a sieve ; when strained, take as many pounds of 
sugar as there are of the grapes, put the pulp and 
sugar in the kettle, and when it boils add the skins 
and boil them until they are quite tender. Cover 
with brandy paper. 



PRESERVES. 75 

GREEN GRAPES. 

Take out the seeds and cook them in a syrup 
with a little more sugar than grapes. In this way 
they are very nice. « 

GRAPE JAM. 

Boil either green or ripe grapes until you can 
strain them through a sieve ; when strained, put 
as much sugar as grape and cook until it will 
harden. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To three pounds of raspberries mashed, put one 
pint of red currant juice, add as much sugar as 
there is of the juice and raspberries, then boil half 
an hour, perhaps a little more. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Pick and wash nice ripe blackberries and mash 
them, put three quarters as much sugar as fruity 
and cook them half an hour. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Peel and cut your quinces in small pieces, put 
them in a kettle with just water enough to cover 
them, boil them well, strain off the liquor and add 
as much sugar as juice and boil until it will jelly. 
If you peel and wash your quinces that you are 
going to use for marmalade, the water in which 



76 RECEIPTS* 

they are boiled will do for jelly, but the peel hurts 
the flavor. You can boil a few at a time, two or 
three times in the same water, and the jelly will be 
the better for it. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick and wash your currants, then put them in 
a kettle with very little water, cook with a moder- 
ate heat until the juice is extracted, then turn them 
on a sieve and press gently with a wooden spoon, 
weigh the juice, return it to the kettle and set it 
on the fire, when it boils take off the scum, then 
put as many pounds of sugar as juice, skim it as 
quick as you can; the less it boils the better; 
strain again through the sieve and dip into small 
jars or tumblers immediately. 

« 

BLACKBERRY JELLY 

Is made in the same way, but requires more 
boiling ; one half or three quarters of an hour is 
generally suflicient. 

PINEAPPLE JAM. 

Peel and grate your pineapples, then add an 
equal quantity of sugar and cook half an hour ; if 
the fruit is very sour, put in more sugar ; if you 
pare them whole they will be better to grate. Dip 
hot in small jars or bowls and cover tight. 



• PICKLES, &C. 77 

TO STEW RHUBAliB. 

Peel and cut you rhubarb in short pieces ; put it 
on the fire with cold water to cover it ; let it stand 
until it is boiling hot, then turn off the water and 
add sugar to the taste ; let it cook very gradually, 
and it ivill remain whole ; it is better for cooking 
a good while, if you can prevent it from coming to 
pieces. 



PICKLES, &c. 

TO MAKE MANGOES. 

Take -the melons when they are about as big as 
a teacup, cut a piece out of the side and scrape out 
the pulp, then take a needle and fasten each piece 
to the melon. Make a pickle of salt and water 
that will bear an egg and pour it on them when it 
is a little cool. You may let them remain in it 
several weeks if you are not ready to fill them ; 
scald the pickle once a week or as often as it re- 
quires. Soak them two or three days in warm 
water, changing it often, then wipe them dry. 
Take half a pint of mustard seed, sift and wash it 
well, drain it and scrape about half a pint of horse- 
radish very fine, mix them together, add cloves, (a 

G2 



78 BECEIPTS. 

few of them put in whole,) race ginger cut fine, a 
little mace or nutmeg, and the inside of six or 
eight small white onions cut thin and round. Fill 
your melons and sew them up. If you have more 
stuffing than you can put in the melons, take large 
cucumbers, cut and scrape them like the melons. 
Boil the vinegar, put in a piece of alum, take oS 
all the scum, pour it over boiling hot, and cover 
them up close. They may be put with your spiced 
pickles if you choose. 

OYSTERS. 

Take one hundred large oysters in their own 
liquor and put them over a moderate fire with a 
teacup full of vinegar and half as much salt ; stir 
them and just let them boil up, take off the scum 
and add a table-spoonful of whole black pepper 
and half that quantity of cloves and 'mace; let 
them boil till the oysters are done ; then put them 
in a jar and cover them close till they are cold, 
when they may be tied over tight for keeping. 

ONIONS. 

• Take small white onions, peel them and cover 
them with salt; scali them in milk and water; 
take them out and cool them ; make a pickle of 
white vinegar, put in a small quantity of mace, 
nutmeg, race ginger and salt ; boil them up to- 
gether, skim it well and let it stand until it is cool. 



PICKLES, &€• 79 

then put in the onions and cover them close ; let 
the bag of spice remain with them. 

TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. 

Cut off the stalks and outside leaves and cut into 
thin slices ; mate a pickle of vinegar, cloves and 
ginger; when it is cold, pour it over the cabbage 
and it will be fit for use in twelve hours. White 
cabbage may be done in the same manner, but the 
vinegar must be poured on scalding hot two or 
three, times. Scald beets in the vinegar to color it. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice a gallon of green tomatoes and salt them 
over night ; mix together a table-spoonful of ground 
black pepper, one of mace, one of cloves, four 
pods of peppers chopped fine, and half a pint of 
grated horse-radish. Take a stone jar, put in a 
layer of seasoning, then one of tomatoes, then 
seasoning, then tomatoes, and so on until the jar is 
full, then fill up with cold cider vinegar, adding at 
the last a spoonful of sweet oil. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Take a peck of ripe tomatoes, wash them and 
add a handful of salt, let them stand all night, then 
put them in a stewpan and boil gently for two 
hours ; then rub them through a sieve, season with 
salt, cayenne pepper and cloves to the taste, add a 



80 RECEIPTS. 

pint of the best wine vinegar, boil two hours more, 
then put in bottles, rinsing them out first with 
brandy; cork tight and keep in a cool place. 
Ketchup is very nice to put in gravy, particularly 
for beefsteak, and some like it in soup. 

CURRANT WINE. * 

The same measure of currant juice, sugar and 
water. 

TO PICKLE PEPPERS. 

Take large squash peppers green, cut o^ the end 
and take out the seeds, then soak them six or eight 
days in water with -a little salt, changing it every 
day, then chop cabbage and onions together, and 
season with mustard, cloves and allspice to the 
taste ; fill your peppers and fasten on the pieces 
you cut off, then boil some good cider vinegar with 
a little piece of alum and pour it over boiling hot. 
Red cabbage is best if you can get it. 

TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS. 

Lay them in salt and water nine days, then take 
them out and green them in cabbage leaves over 
the fire, then throw them in cold water ; let them 
remain three days, changing the water frequently, 
take them out, scald and skim your vinegar and 
pour on them while hot, and so continue to boil it 
up nine or ten times until they are green and trans- 
parent, then take new vinegar which is strong, boil 



picb:les, &c. 81 ° . 

it up with two lemons, race ginger, and cloves put 
in a bag, skim it and pour it over the cucumbers. 



ANOTHER. 

One gallon of rum to two of water, pick and 
wash the cucumbers and put them in; Nothing 
more is necessary to obtain good pickles. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

• 

Take ripe peaches, rub them with a dry cloth, 
put a pound of brown sugar to one quart of vine- 
gar, put the peaches in a jar, boil the vinegar and 
sugar together and pour over- them; repeat this 
three or four times. Some cloves boiled in .the 
vinegar improves them for some persons. 

PLUMS 

Can be done in the same way ; also tomatoes 
picked before they are too ripe. 

PICKLED QUINCES. 

Boil the quinces whole until they are soft, then 
boil one quart of vinegar with one pound of brown 
sugar, and a tea-spoonfiil of cloves ; pour it to the 
quinces hot. 

KASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

One quart of vinegar poured over one quart of 
raspberries; strain and pour them to a quart of 



82 RECEIPTS. * 

fresh raspberries each morning for a week, at the 
end of which, put to a pint of the juice one pound 
of sugar an^ boil fifteen minutes; skim it, and 
when cold bottle and cork tight. 

BLACKBERRY VINEGAR. 

To a peck of blackberries, one quart of vinegar 
poured over them and let them stand two days, 
then strain off the juice ; to a pint of which add a 
pound of sugar ; let ^e juice come to a boil, skim 
it and add the sugar, stirring it over the fire till it 
is dissolved, let it stand till cold, stirring occasion- 
ally, then bottle and cork tight ; keep it in a cool 
place. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

Take a pound of white sugar to a pint of juice, 
boil it for ten minutes, strain it and then bottle it 
for use. Raspberries and pineapples do in the 
same way. Use it for flavoring. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

To a peck of the berries put one quart of water,, 
in which they should simmer till they are soft 
enough to extract the juice, then strain them 
through a sieve.; to one quart of juice add one and 
three quarters pounds of sugar, let the juice come 
to a boil, and after skimming add the sugar ; stir 
it over the fire till melted, then stir occasionally 



PICKLES, &C. 83 

till cool ; when cold, add a wine-glass of brandy to 
a. pint of syrup ; bottle and cork tight. 

TO PRESERVE A BUSHEL OF TOMATOES. 

Peel the tomatoes, taking only the soft pulp 
without the hearts or any of the tough or stringy 
substance. As they are. peeled throw into a sieve 
or colander pMced over a pail, and let all the water 
drain from them ; then put them into a porcelain 
lined kettle with one teacup full of pepper corns, 
one half a cup full of whole allspice and cloves 
mixed, tied up in a cloth, add salt and cayenne 
pepper to your taste. Stir the tomatoes constantly 
until they boil, let them boil gently for three hours, 
stirring them occasionally . When cooked , put them 
in some vessel to cool ; they will thicken as they 
oool ; beat them smooth when cold with a silver 
spoon, and put them into bottles with a pinch of 
cayenne pepper on the top of each ; cork aijd seal 
them well. When to be used empty the contents 
of the bottle into a saucepan with a rolled biscuit, 
a piece of butter and a gill of boiling water, and 
let all boil up together. Use small bottles, because 
when opened it must all be used. 

COLE-SLAW. 

One or two yolks of eggs well beaten, two 
table-spoonfuls of vinegar, quarter of a pound of 
butter, mnd a little salt, put all together into a 



84 BEGEIFTS. 

sauce-pan and stirred over the fire until Ihe butter 
is melted to prevent its oiling ; have the cabbage 
cut very fine, and pour this mixture over it while 
warm, but not boiling ; add some black pepper and 
let it stand until perfectly cold. Cole-slaw .can 
also be prepared by dressing the cabbage as a salad. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One part mustard, four olive oil, two vinegar, 
one salt ; the yolk of. a hard boiled egg improves 
it ; many add a little mashed potato and cream. 

■ 

*SALAD DRESSING. 

m 

The yolks of two hard boiled eggs sifted, the 
yolk of one raw egg^ add one tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard from the bottle, two gills of sweet oil gradu- 
ally, two or three squeezes of a lemon, or a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, half a tea-spoonful of salt, 
half a wine-glass of white wine ; mix well together 
and stand it on ice till wanted. 

BEEF PICKLE. 

Rub the beef well with fine salt before it is 
packed, let it lie twenty-four hours to cleanse it 
from the blood. For one barrel, eight gallons of 
water, nine pounds of salt, four pounds of sugar, 
four ounces of saltpetre, three pints of clean wood 
a.shes boiled and well skimmed. 



MISOELIANEOUS. 85 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Cook and mash ten peeled potatoes, pour on a 
quart of boiling water and stir well, add a coflfee- 
cup of sugar, let this stand a few minutes, pour in 
a quart of cold water, wanting a gill, and when 
lukewarm stir in a pint- of yeast and set it in a 
moderately warm place to rise ; when well fer- 
mented, put.it into a stone jug, cork tightly and 
keep it in a cool place. After the first rising keep 
enough of this yeast for the second batch. 

HOP YEAST. 

Take a teacup half full of hops, tie them in a 
cloth, peel four or five potatoes and put in a kettle 
with a quart of water, sift some flour and wet with 
cold water as you would to make starch ; when the 
potatoes ai^ done, turn the boiling liquor to the 
flour, stirring all the time, mash the potatoes and 
put them in ; when cool put in a teacup half full of 
yeast and set it in a warm place to rise ; when very 
light, strain it through a wire 'sieve and put it in a 
jug and cork tight. It should be made as often as 
once a week. 

TURNPIKE EMPTYINGS. 

Boil a handful of hops in a quart of water fifteen 
minutes, then strain it through a sieve and thicken 
with flour ; when nearly cold, put in a teacup full 

H 



86 RECEIPTS. 

of good yeast and let it stand until it ferments, 
then work in fine white Indian meal until it is stiff 
enough to make up in little cakes ; the thinner you 
can make them the better, as they will turn sour if 
they are too long drying ; set them near the fire, 
or in a cool oven. Let them get perfectly 6vy and 
they will keep a long time in a dry place. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Pour boiling water to the almonds and try them 
very soon to see if the skins will slip off easily ; ' 
as soon as they will, drain them in a colander, skin 
them as soon as you can before they get dry ; when 
done put them again into the colander and pour 
cold water over them, then turn them on a shoal 
dish and set them near the fire to dry ; be careful 
they do not get too warm. It is best to prepare 
the almonds the day before you want to use them. 
Never add any liquid in the mortar while pound- 
ing, (as is generally recommended,) to keep them 
from oiling. Macaroons are better made with 
almonds perfectly dry. 

TO CLEAN CURRANTS. 

Have small holes made in a large tin pan, they 
should be coarser than a wire sieve but not large 
enough to let the currants through ; then rub your 
currants well with fine Indian meal until the stems 
are all off, then sift out all you can, pick them clean 



MISCELLANEOUS. 87 

ffnd give them a good washing, pour water over 
them after they are in the pan, then set them in 
the snn or near the fire to dry. 

EAISINS 

Should never be chopped, they mix in with the 
cake and make it taste sour. Scissors are nice to 
seed them with ; some prefer to take the seeds out 
with a pen-knife and cut them up with scissors. 

RULES FOR MAKING CAKE. 

r 

Wash your butter with a wooden spoon and beat 
it to a cream, then add the sugar and spice pow- 
dered and sifted, beat theiji very light. For fruit 
cake you can put in the eggs, one or two at a time, 
and beat them well with the sugar and butter ; it 
stiffens the cake better than to beat them separately, 
and the fruit is not as likely to settle to the bottom 
of the loaf; add the liquid gradually and keep 
beating, then put in your fruit, and last of all sift 
in part of your flour at a time stirring it as little 
as possible ; no saleratus. I could never decide 
whether a loaf of cake was done by trying it with a 
straw, but if you press your finger near the centre 
and it makes a hissing noise it is a very sure indi- 
cation that it requires more baking ; I have seldom 
known it to fail. Light cakes can be made in the 
same way with the exception of breaking the eggs 
in separate dishes and beating the yolks with the 
butter and sugar, and the whites very light and 



88 BEOEIPTS. 

add by degrees. In no case should it be beat after 
the flour is put in. If your pans are buttered and 
you use the thin white wrapping paper, it is not 
necessary to put any butter on the paper, which 
should be cut to fit the pan ; if it turns up at the 
edge it will break the cake when you take it off. 
It is not necessary to put your hand in any cake 
but that made of raised dough, nor even then until 
the sugar, butter and eggs are beat together, A 
salad spoon is the best to beat with, and it will last 
a long time. The salad fork you will find very 
nice to beat eggs or frosting. I think a wire better 
than a hair sieve to use about cooking ; they are 
more durable and easier kept clean, and it is not 
as much trouble to sift the flour through them ; 
they should be washed with a brush and dried im- 
mediately. The tins or pans used for baking 
should be nearly perpendicular, not quite, as the 
cake will not turn out as well if they are. A 
square loaf cuts to better advantage than a round. 
It is very essential in order to have good cake to 
make use of the best of materials; the butter 
should be perfectly sweet, the eggs fresh, and all 
you use the very best, and prepared in the best 
manner. Cloves I consider unhealthy and have 
made very little use of them myself, but there are 
a variety of tastes ; I have endeavored to please 
all, and I sincerely hope that my labor may not be 
in vain ; time will determine. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 89 

If there is anything in the preceding pagel that 
has been published before, I am not awiire of it; 
very many of them are Practical Keceipts, some 
have been furnished by kind friends and highly 
recommended, and others copied from the best of 
written Keceipt Books. I do not pretend to say 
that they are all practical, but I think so many of 
them are that I may safely call this a Practical 
Receipt Book. I am told, (and I question not the 
truth of the assertion,) that there are some excel- 
lent receipts in the printed books, but I am confi- 
dent that most of these, if not all, will prove very 
different from what have heretofore been published ; 
perhaps some better, others not as good. There 
are. quite a number of old fashioned receipts, and I 
have often heard people regret that there was not 
more of that good cooking in the present day. I 
have not published anything but what I supposed 
would be useful. The delicate state of my health 
has prevented my doing as well as I might, had it 
been otherwise. 

May heaven's choicest blessings descend and 
rest on those who have assisted me in my feeble 
undertaking. 



INDEX. 



Page 

Almonds, to Blanch, ... 86 

Apples, to Bake, 28 

Apple Doraplings, .... 29 

Apple Pudding, 38 

Apple Fritters, 52 

Apple Pot Pie, 66 

Bean Soup, 21 

Beans, to Bake, 22 

Beef, Alamode, 3 

Beef Olives, ....... 5 

Beef, Round of, 9 

Beefsteak Pudding, .... 10 

Beef Soup, 10 

Beef, to Pickle, 84 

Beef, Salt, to Boil, .... 22 

Blanc Mange, 44 

Blanc Mange, Arrow-Root, 44 
Blanc Mange, Farina, ... 44 

Blackberry Jam, 75 

Blackberry Vinegar, ... 81 
Blackberry Syrup, .... 81 

Brandy Peaches, 74 

Breakfast Cake, 48 

Bread, Sponge, White, . . 46 

Bread^ Graham, 46 

Bread, Graham Soda Biscuit,50 
Bread, "feoda, ....... 46 

Bread, Short Biscuit, ... 47 
Bread, French Roll, .... 47 

Bread, Brown, 48 

Biscuit, Fayal, 56 

Biscuit, Naples, ....:. 63 
Buns, 66 

Cake, Almond Sponge, . . 59 

Cake, Black, 57 

Cake, Bread, 65 

Cake, Cream, 45 

Cake, Citron, 59 

Cake, Currant, 66 

Cake, Corn Oyster, .... 53 



Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 
Cake 



Page 
Composition, .... 62 

Cider, 63 

Cup, 63 

Cocoa, . . . ... . .64 

Cheese, 38 

Drop, 33,54 

French Loaf, . . . .61 
Flannel, 50 



Frosting for. 



64 



Fruit, 65. 66 

Ginger, 67 

Gold and Silver, . . 64 

Griddle, 49 

Griddle Corn, .... 53 

Kisses, 64 

Lady, 58 

Macaroons, 63 

Pound, * . 60 

Plum, 61 

Poor Man's, ... .62 

Queen's, 59 

Raised Dough, ... 62 

Rice, 54 

Rich Loaf, 60 

Raised, 59, 60 

Sponge, .... 58, 65 

Sampson, 62 

Soda, ....... 65 

Sugar, 65, 67 

Windham, 54 



Washington, 



57 



Whortleberry, . 62, 63 
Cream Tea Cakes, .... 49 
Charlotte Russe, . . . 41, 42 
CalfsH'd to dress like turtle, 16 
Chickens, Fricassee, ... 7 
Chickens, White Fricassee, 7 
Chickens, to Currj'^, .... 8 

Chicken Pie, 8 

Chicken Salad, 15 

Chicken Soup, 19 

Cookies, Sugar. ...... 67 



INDEX. 



91* 



Page 
Corn Oysters, ...... 63 

Corn Pudding, 64 

Castard, Lemon, 42 

Custard, Almond, 43 

Custard, Cold, 43 

Custard, Soft, 43 

Custard, Arrow-Root, ... 43 

Currant Wine, 80 

Currants, to Clean, .... 86 

Cole-Slaw, 83 

Chowder, Fish or Clam, . . 20 

Dumplings, Appte, . ; . . 29 
Dumplings, Indian, .... 24 
Dumplings, Whortleberry, 29 
Doughnuts, Rye and Indian, 52 
Drop Cakes, Rye and Indian, 62 

Drop Cakes, 65 

Doughnuts, 67, 68 

Emptyings, Turnpike, . . .85 

Fish, to Bake, 13 

Fish, to Stew, 13 

Fish, to Scollop, 13 

Fish Chowder, ...... 20 

Fish, Cod, 23 

Fish Balls, 23 

Force Meat Balls, ..... 17 

German Toast, 51 

Ginger Snaps, 68 

Gingerbread, Molasses, . >. 68 
Gingerbread, Sngar, . . ; 69 
Gingerbread, Hard, . . . . 69 

Green Grapes, 75 

Grape Jam, 75 

Ham, to Boil, 11 

Ham, Cold, to Hash, ... 12 

Hash Meat, 12 

Hop Yeast, 85 

Indian Dumplings, .... 24 

Ice Cream, . ' 41 

Italian Cream, .41 

Indian Griddle Cakes, ... 53 
Indian Bannock, 63 

Jam, Pineapple, 76 



Page 

Jelly, Wine, 40 

Jelly, Blackberry, 76 

Jelly, Currant, 76 

Jelly, Quince, 75 

Jumbles, . 66 

Jumbles, Soft, 67 

Ketchup, Tomato, .... 79 

Lobster, to Stew, ..... 13 
Lobster, to Bake, 15 

Marmalade, 72 

Marmalade, Peach, .... 72 
Meat, Salt, to Boil, .... 22 

Mutton Chops, 6 

Mutton,to Roast like Venison, 6 
Mutton Soup. See Veal SOup. 

Muffins, . 49, 64 

Muffins, Soda, 60 

Muffins, Rye, 64 

Oyster Pie, 9 

Oysters, to Stew, 14* 

Oysters, to Bake, 14 

Oyster Soup, 20 

Pies, Cream, 39 

Pie Crust, 36 

Pie, Mince, 36 

Pie, Cracker Mince, .... 37 

Pie, Lemon, 40 

Pie, Rice, : . 34 

Pies, Turnover, ..... 37 
Pies, Washington, .... 37 

Pie, Delmonico, 31 

Pig, to Barbecue, 4 

Pork and Beans, to Bake, . 22 

Pickled Mangoes, 77 

Pickled Oysters, 78 

Pickled Onions, 78 

Pickled Red Cabbage, ... 79 
Pickled Green Tomatoes, . 79 
Pickled Cucumbers, .... 80 

Pickled Peppers, 80 

Pickled Peaches, 81 

Pickled Plums, 81 

Pickled Quinces, 81 

Preserved Plums, 70 

Preserved Peaches, . . , .70 



92 



INXUBIX. 



Page 

Preserved Citron Melon, . 71 
Preserved Quinces, . . . . 71 
Preserved Cherries, .... 72 
Preserved Strawberries, . . 73 
Preserved Tomatoes, ... 83 
Preserved Currants, ... 72 
Preserved Pineapples, ... 76 
Preserved Grapes, .... 74 
Potato Yeast, 33 



Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 
Pudding 



Apple, 38 

Almond, .... 26 
Arrow-Root, . . 30 

Baked, 32 

Berry, 33 

Bird's Nest, ... 31 
Beefsteak, ... 10 
Boiled Hunter's, . 25 
Cocoanut, .... 38 

Com, 62 

Cracker, .... 27 
Custard, .... 28 
Cust'djWith't eggs, 33 
English Plum, . . 26 

Eve's, 30 

Hasty, 84 

Indian or Rice, . 33 

Ice, 32 

Indian, . . . 31, 61 

Little, 47 

Minute, 34 

Lemon, 39 

Potato, 39 

Plain Flour, ... 30 
Porcupine, ... 33 
Pumpkin, .... 39 

Plum, 25 

Rice, 27 

Rice, with't Eggs, 34 

Suet, 25 

Sponge, 31 



Tapioca, 
Troy, . . . 
Washington, 
White Pot, 
Yorkshire, 
Sauce for, . 
without Eggs 



» • 



27 
31 
26 
33 
24 
35 
30 



Puflf Paste, 36 



Page 

Quinces, to Bake, 29 

Rice Cakes 33 

Rice Cups, 28 

Rice Fritters, 52 

Raspberry Jam, 75 

Raspberry Vinegar, .... 81 

Raisins, 87 

Rhubarb, to Stew, .... 77 
Rules for Making Cake, . . 87 

.Salad, Chicken, 22 

Salad, Dressing, 84 

Sally Lunn, 48 

Scrapple, 11 

Sausages, to make, .... 11 

Sausages, Veal, . ^ .... 22 

Sauce for Puddings, . . . .22 

Sauce, Wine, ....... 35 

Strawberry Syrup, . . . .81 

Stew Pies, ........ 9 

Sweetbread, 17 

Soup, Beef, 18 

Soup, Bean, . . \ . . . . 20 

Soup, Clam, 19 

Soup, Corn, .21 

Soup, Chicken, 19 

Soup, French, 17 

Soup, Oyster, 20 

Soup, Pea, 22 

Soup, Mutton. See Veal. . 18 
Soup, Veal, 18 

Terrapin, 15 

Tea. Cakes, . 22 

Tomato Ketchup, 79 

Tomatoes, to Preserve, . . 83 

Veal Cutlets, 5 

Veal, to Stuff a Fillet of, . 7 

Veal Soup, 22 

Veal Sausages, 11 

Wine Sauce, 35 

Wine Jelly, 40 

Waffles, 49 

Whortleberry Hollo w,Bak'd,56 
Wine, Currant, 80 

Yeast, Hop, 85 

Yeast, Potato, .... • . 85 



\ 



V. 



THE 



NEW BEDFORD 




BY 



P. H. MENDALL 



NEW BEDFORD: 

CHARLES TABER & CO. 

1859. 



TX-ns 



z^ frz. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, 

By Mks. p. H. Mendall, 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts 

•y transfer rrut. 
Pftt. Office Jbib, 
1014. 



E. ANTHONY, PRINTEE, 

Standard Office. 



RECEIPTS. 



MEATS, &c. 



ALAMODE BEEF 



Take a round of beef that weighs twenty 
pounds, cut out the bone and wrap the skin 
over so as to make a handsome round. Wash 
and drain it ; grate a large nutmeg, as much 
salt and a little less of pounded cloves, mix them 
together and rub over the sides of the meat well. 
Then pour over three pints of Claret or Port 
wine, and let it remain all night. Take a long 
piece of strong cloth the width of the beef, wind 
it round very tight and sew it. Make the stuff- 
ing of two pounded crackers, sweet marjoram, 
pepper, salt, a nutmeg, butter, wine and one or 
two eggs, cut deep holes in it and put in the 
stuffing. Then rub over as much spice and salt 
as you did before. Put a piece of twine or tape 
over it, that it may more easily be taken from 
the pot. Place a drainer in the bottom and put 
in the beef with about half of the wine, adding 
the remainder mixed with three pints of water, 



4 RECEIPTS. 

as it may require. Three hours over a sIoa 
steady fire will cook it sufficiently. Add to th 
gravy a little salt and pepper and then the dis] 
is done. 

TO BARBACUE A PIG. 

Cut it open on the back, cut off the feet am 
clean the head as for roasting ; wash it wel 
then dry it and sprinkle over Cayenne peppei 
salt and sage. Put the in.«;ide on a gridiron ani 
let it remain an hour, taking care to baste th 
skin with sweet oil, then turn it and take thre 
fourths of a pound of butter to one pint of Poi 
wine, melt the butter in it and baste the insid 
which lies uppermost continually with it. Tw 
hours will cook one of seven pounds weigh^ 
For sauce, take the inwards and boil them a: 
hour, with a dozen cloves, a little salt and a fe> 
pepper corns, then chop them fine, add swee 
herbs, a little sage if you like it, considerabl 
white wine, some of the liquor in which it wa 
boiled, more pepper and salt if necessary. 

TO COOK A ROUND OF BEEF. 

Cut holes in it and fill them with rich stu] 
fing, then put it in a pot with half a pound c 
butter made hot, let one side brown before i 
is turned, shake the pot often to keep it fror 



MEATS, &C. 5 

sticking, then add water and let it cook from 
one to one and a half hours ; thicken the gravy 
and add wine, put in a little water at a time, 
but be careful it does not dry away and burn. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Cut slices half an inch thick and four inches 
square, of cooked or raw beef, pound them, rub 
on salt, pepper, sweet herbs, cloves and nutmeg, 
then roll them tight and tie them ; roll each 
piece in an egg beaten, and then in seasoned 
crackers pounded fine, fry them in beef drip- 
pings or lard for a little while, just making them 
a light brown, then stew them gently for an 
hour or more in the gravy, which should be 
made by boiling up the bones with an onion, 
salt, pepper, &c., as you would for common 
gravy thickened with a little browned flour, 
skim oif all the fat that rises. Veal or mutton 
may be done in the same way, taking off all the 
fat part. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Pound the veal well, cut it into small pieces ; 
beat-up two or three eggs, into which dip the 
veal, then into crumbs of bread or pounded 
cracker, (add if liked, herbs with the eggs and 
pepper, and salt). Fry the cutlets brown in 

A2 



O RECEIPTS. 

lard, when done take them out and pour into 
the pan a little milk or cream, dust in also a 
little flour, pour this gravy over the veal and 
send to table ; stew some tomatoes, season with 
pepper and salt, pour them into gravy and let 
it stew together a few minutes, pour over the 
cutlets and serve. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

First dip them in egg ^nd afterwards in bread 
crumbs or pounded cracker. Have the lard 
hot when you put them in. Fry them brown, 
then take them out of the pan to make the 
gravy. Toast two slices of bread very brown 
and pound it iine. Turn the toasted bread 
with a table-spoonful of vinegar into the pan, 
add pepper and salt ; after turning, put back 
the chops and cover them with the gravy until 
entirely heated through. Pour all into a dish 
and send to the table as hot as possible. 

TO ROAST MUTTON LIKE VENISON. 

Take a leg of mutton, rub it over with salt- 
petre and hang it in a moist place two days, 
wipe it two or three times in the day with a 
cloth, then put it in a pan ; boil a quart of Port 
wine, pour it boiling hot over your mutton, 
cover it close two hours, take it out, baste it 



MEATS, &;c. 7 

frequently with the sauce-liquor or butter, have 
a brisk fire. One and one half hours will 
bake it. 

TO STUFF A FILLET OF YEAL. 

Take a slice or two of the fillet, and a few 
slices of pork, chop these very fine, add sweet 
herbs, pepper and salt, if the pork does not 
make it soft enough, moisten it with an egg. 

WHITE FRICASSEE. 

Two chickens. Skin and cut them into little 
pieces, lay them in warm water to drain out the 
blood, then dry them in a cloth and put them 
into a stew-pan with milk and water, stew them 
till tender, then take them out with a fork, 
strain the liquor, return to the pan again with 
half a pint of the liquor, a half a pint of cream, 
the yolks of two eggs, a little mace, a glass of 
white wine and a piece of butter rolled in flour. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Put the chickens into a pot and stew them 
in a little w^ater until quite tender. Take them 
out, cut them into pieces, put them back into 
about half the quantity of the water they have 
previously been boiled in, with pepper and salt. 
Let them stew until entirely cooked. Have 
ready a gravy of a pint of cream, half a tea-cup 



8 RECEIPTS. 

full of Port wine, butter the size of an egg, a 
little salt, black pepper and a little red. Take 
the chicken from the pot, and when laid upon 
the platter pour the gravy hot over it. The 
liquor in which the chicken was boiled may be 
added to the gravy or not, as you choose. 

TO CURHY CHICKEN. 

Dissect and par-boil your chickens in as little 
water as possible. Than remove them from the 
kettle and in the liquid fry two or three thin 
slices of pork, with an onion or two ; then re- 
move the pork, replace the chicken with the 
liquid, and let it boil again, and add more water 
if necessary ; make a little thickening and to 
it add one table-spoonful and a half of curry 
powder, and let it boil again for a few minutes. 
When served, garnish the dish with small balls 
of boiled rice, or always have plain boiled rice 
as a vegetable. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces and put them 
on to cook with just water enough to cover 
them. When about half done take out the 
chicken and rub some pepper, salt and flour 
with sufficient butter to make a rich gravy; 
when cool roll out your crust and put round 



MEATS, &C. 9 

the sides of the dish, let it come over the edge, 
then cut some narrow strips and put round 
twice on the top of that ; put in the chicken 
and fill the dish about half full of gravy, save 
out plenty to eat with the pie. If there does 
not seem to be enough rub some butter with 
flour and seasoning and put in small pieces 
among the chicken, and put in some water, then 
cover the dish with a thick crust, cut out a 
round piece from the centre of the pie, then roll 
some crust a little thicker than you would for 
a common pie, and cut eight leaves, you can 
mark round a table-spoon to shape them, mark 
them through the middle and each side to 
resemble a leaf, then lay on four opposite each 
other, then the other four between those, take a 
narrow strip of the crust and cut it fine at one 
edge, then roll it up and put it in the centre ; if 
properly done you have a very handsome pie. 
Bake gradually until the crust is done. 

A VERY NICE OYSTER PIE 

Can be made in the same way, prepare the 
oysters as you would to bake. 

TO MAKE A STEW-PIE. 

Cut your meat or fowl in small pieces, wash 
and put it on a colander to drain ; cut a few 



10 RECEIPTS. 

slices of pork and fry out all the fat, then take 
them out and put in the meat with water suffi- 
cient to cover it, season well with salt and 
pepper, (a piece of pepper pod is very nice) add 
water if necessary, but do not get too much at 
first, peel some potatoes and cut them into two 
pieces; have a crust ready made of raised or 
soda bread with a little shortening, and three 
quarters of an hour before dinner take out a 
few pieces of meat to make room for the pota- 
toes to go into the gravy, replace the meat, 
make up the crust like flat dumplings and place 
them round the sides of the pot ; stir some thick- 
ening and put in just before you take it up. 
You must not have a rash heat, it will burn if 
you do — should you want your gravy very rich, 
a few slices of onion might be fried with the 
pork. 

BEEF STEAK PUDDING. 

Cut your meat in small pieces, put it in a 
stew-pan with water to cover it ; season with 
pepper and salt, cook it about half an hour, 
thicken the gravy with some butter and flour 
rubbed together,, then set it away to cool, make • 
a rich crust, put your pudding cloth in a large 
bowl, roll the crust out thick, and lay in, and 
when the gravy is cold put in the meat, and a 



MEATS, &C. 11 

part of the gravy, (save part to eat with the 
pudding,) make it quite tight and tie the cloth 
firm, put it in boiling water and cook from one 
and a half to two hours. If the steak is tough 
it should be pounded before it is cooked. Any 
other fresh meat will do to make such a pudding, 
and it is a good way to use up cold meat. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

Boil a ham moderately from three to four 
hours, according to the size, when done, take 
o:^ the skin and set it in the oven until the fat 
is nicely browned. 

TO MAKE SCRAPPLE. 

Take the heart, kidneys, sweet-bread, melts 
and liver and put them to boil. The liver will 
be done sufficiently in an hour. Chop all very 
fine, take the skins and scraps unfit for sau- 
sages, the feet and tongue, boil them all very 
tender, chop them fine and return them to the 
liquor they were boiled in, salt, pepper and sage 
must be added according to the taste; when 
boiling, stir in buckwheat meal to the thickness 
of mush, keep it stirring while it boils to pre- 
vent it from burning ; it need not boil long. 

SAUSAGES. 

Forty-six pounds of meat, three fourths of a 



12 RECEIPTS. 

pound of salt, three ounces of black pepper, 
half an ounce of sage, and a table-spoonful of 
red pepper. 

ANOTHER. 

To ten pounds of meat, three table-spoons 
full of salt, three of sage, one of black and one 
of red pepper. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. 

Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat 
pork, a handful of sage, a little salt, beat all in 
a mortar and roll out like doughnuts and fry 
them. 

TO HASH MEAT. 

Take fresh meat and cut it in small pieces 
with a knife, then add the gravy if you have 
any, if not put in water and rub some butter 
and flour to thicken it. Season with pepper 
and salt to the taste. 

TO HASH COLD HAM. 

Take the lean and chop it fine, add water 
sufficient to cover it, beat two or three eggs and 
when it boils, stir them in with some pepper, 
take it ofl" as soon as the egg is cooked. Cod- 
fish is good when managed in this way, but it 
must be soaked first in hot water and made as 
fresh as possible. Add a piece of butter. 



MEATS, &C. 13 

BAKED FISH. 

Take a middling sized fish or a very large 
black fish, make a stuffing of bread, a little 
pork chopped fine, sweet herbs, an onion, salt 
and pepper ; place the fish in a bake-pan with 
a little water, sufficient to keep it moist. Add 
a glass of red wine, a little flour and butter. 

TO STEW FISH. 

After the fish is well cleaned put it into a 
stew-pan with sufficient water, an onion stuck 
with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and 
salt, when it is almost done add a glass of wine, 
a tea-cup full of catchup and a little flour and 
butter mixed to thicken it. Toasted bread to 
be placed underneath.it. 

SCOLLOPED FISH. 

Take any boiled fish when cold, mince it up, 
put a layer in the bottom of a dish, add pepper, 
salt and butter ; then sprinkle over a layer of 
bread crumbs, place these layers alternately 
until the dish is filled, over the top pour about 
half a cup of cream and then bake. This is 
excellent for breakfast. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Cut the lobster in pieces about an inch square, 
place them in a stew-pan and over it pour a cup 



14 RECEIPTS. 

of water, add a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, pepper and salt to the taste, mix also with 
it the green meat of the lobster and stew about 
ten minutes. Just before taking it off add two 
wine-glasses of Sherry, or Port wine if preferred, 
let it scald but not boil. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Rinse two quarts of oysters in the liquor; 
strain it and let it boil for a few minutes ; skim 
it well, add a table-spoonful of flour, same of 
butter well mixed with a tea-cup of cream, 
black pepper and a little red, salt if necessary, 
after boiling a few moments drop in the oysters 
and boil ten minutes. 

BAKED OYSTERS. 

Take three pints of solid oysters, one dozen 
crackers pounded, six ounces of butter, one cup 
of the oyster water. Bake this quantity in two 
shoal dishes. Wash the oysters in strong salt 
and water. Take them out separately as dry 
as you can. Butter your dishes, and put first 
a layer of cracker, then a layer of oysters with 
butter and pepper, then another layer of 
cracker, oysters, «&c. Cover with the cracker 
and put the water in just as you put them in 
the oven. Flavor with wine if you choose. In 
that case put in less of the oyster water. 



MEATS, &C. 15 

BAKED LOBSTER. 

Take the meat from the shell after it has 
been boiled, chop it fine, add the yolks of three 
eggs boiled hard, mix it together with sweet 
oil, mustard, cayenne, &c., as for chicken salad, 
wash the shell and put the ingredients into it 
with a small piece of butter, strew over it 
cracker crumbs and bake it in a moderately 
warm oven half an hour. Add a little salt. 

CHICKEN CELERY. 

Boil two chickens, when cold take the meat 
from the Ijones, chop it fine with the yolks of 
nine eggs boiled hard, two heads of celery 
chopped, add sweet oil, mustard, cayenne, a 
little salt, mix it well together. 

TO COOK A TERRAPIN. 

Put them into boiling water, let them stand 
till the nails will easily pull out, and the outer 
scale of the shell will peel off with the black 
skin. Then wash them in some warm water 
and put in to boil again, until the shell will 
crack easily by striking it with a knife. Re- 
move the upper and under shell, take ofi* the 
shoulders carefully, which will leave the liver 
and gall exposed, so that you can remove the 
gall and sand-bag. It must be done with the 



16 RECEIPTS. 

greatest care, for if one particle gets in the 
meat, it will not be eatable. Then cut all up, 
allow a tea-spoonful of salt to every Terrapin, 
the same of black pepper, red pepper and 
mustard, add some cloves and mace. Mix it 
well together, put a layer of Terrapin and a 
layer of seasoning alternately till all is in the 
stew-pan. Add the liquor that comes from 
them while cutting them' up, a pint of Port 
wine, one pound of butter to six Terrapins, 
with bits of butter and flour as you would to a 
chicken pie. Let them stew moderately and 
keep them closely covered. Send ^hem to the 
table in a deep covered dish. 

TO DRESS CALVES HEAD TURTLE. 

After the head and feet are clean, put them 
in a pot with the inwards, and the brains tied 
in a cloth, with some salt, boil them two or 
three hours, then take the head &c. out after 
you have skimmed it well, take out all the 
bones and strain the liquor. For seasoning, 
take salt, pepper, two or three onions chopped 
fine, sweet marjorum, thyme or summer-savory^ 
cloves pounded and nutmeg to your taste. Put 
a layer of the meat in the pot and strew over 
some of the seasoning, then put another layer 
until all are in, pour over your liquor and put 



MEATS, &C. 17 

it over the fire fifteen or twenty minutes. Take 
the head out again and add to the browned 
flour a little red wine, three eggs well beaten, 
and a piece of butter, put this to the liquor and 
let it boil up. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Take a pound of veal, half a pound of pork, 
the same of grated bread, season it with red or 
white pepper, parsley, mace and sweet herbs, 
put in as much wine and eggs as will make 
them soft enough to roll into balls, fry in hot 
fat and put them in the soup. 

TO STEW SWEET-BREAD. 

After picking and washing perfectly clean, 
put them in a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, one 
very small onion, and milk and water enough 
to cover them ; when done, which will be in 
about half an hour, take them out and thicken 
the gravy with some butter and flour, simmer 
them a little in a deep dish with the gravy over 
them. 

FRENCH SOTJP. 

Take the remains of cold beef, cut it up fine, 
separate all the fat from it, break up the bones 
in small pieces, boil them three hours strain 
and stand it to cool, scrape off the fat again, 

B2 



18 RECEIPTS. 

put it in the pot with cabbage, turnips, celery 
tops and any other vegetable you may have cut 
in very small pieces, season it with salt and red 
pepper; just before it is served, put in a 
few pieces of toasted bread which will thicken 
it sufficiently. 

BEEF SOUP. 

A hock of beef makes a nice soup, but it 
should boil four or five hours, put in two or 
three whole onions as soon as you have taken 
off the scum, then when it is nearly time to put 
in the vegetables, cut the meat from the bone 
in small pieces, return them to the boiler, season 
with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, put in 
some sliced carrots and potatoes ; dumplings are 
an improvement to any soup that is made of 
meat or fowl, but more particularly to beef soup ; 
they are best made with part potato, like the 
crust for apple-dumplings, but some make them 
like pie crust ; they should be made small and 
boil fifteen or twenty minutes. 

VEAL SOUP. 

Put on your meat in time to get to boiling 
about two or two and a half hours before din- 
ner — it depends on the size — add a piece of 
pork nicely prepared, an onion, a little piece of 



MEATS, &C. 19 

red pepper ; about three quarters of an hour 
before dinner, put in some carrots and turnips 
cut small, and when they have boiled fifteen or 
twenty minutes some sliced potato and add salt 
if necessary ; you cannot judge of the salt un- 
til you know how much boils out of the pork ; 
some like rice, it should be put in with the 
meat, if you use it. If you do not use dump- 
lings it is well to toast some slices of bread and 
put in ; thicken with flour. Mutton soup can 
be made in the same way, but requires more 
boiling. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Chickens about a year old make a good soup. 
Make a stuffing of dry bread soaked a few 
minutes in cold water, so that it will chop 
easily, but do not let it get too wet, chop with 
a small piece of pork or butter, cayenne pepper 
and salt to the taste ; some like a little mace ; 
wash and wipe the chicken dry inside, put in 
your stuffing, sew it up firm, then truss it nice- 
ly and put it in to boil two and a half or three 
hours ; put in a piece of pork and make the 
soup in the same way that you would of veal. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Wash about a quart of clams very nice, put 
them in a colander and pour cold water over. 



20 RECEIPTS. 

put them on the fire with very little water 
and let them boil until the shells open, 
then turn the water into a pitcher to settle, 
measure a pint for the soup, take your clams 
from the shell, cut off the hard part and rinse 
them well in the remaining clam-water, if you 
have any, if not in salt and water ; then put on 
the clam water with a pint, of pump water and 
a little piece of red pepper, when it boils take 
off the scum and put in the clams with a pint 
of milk or half a pint of cream, thicken it as 
you would other soup ; some like a little mace. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Take three dozen of oysters, strain the liquor, 
then add a quart of water, one pint of cream 
and milk, piece of butter the size of an egg 
rubbed in flour, a little mace, some red pepper 
and salt, boil this ten or fifteen minutes, then 
add the oysters and give these a boil for a few 
moments. This quantity will make a tureen 
full. 

CHOWDER OF FISH OR CLAMS. 

Cut in slices some pork, try out the fat, put 
in two or three onions sliced, brown these and 
take all out but the liquor, skin the fish, cut it 
up, season all with salt, red or black pepper. 



MEATS, &C. 21 

Peal and slice some potatoes, add with boiling 
water enough to cause them to boil about one 
half an hour, or until the potatoes and fish are 
done ; thicken it w^ith about two table-spoons 
full of fiour in a gill of cream. 



BEAN SOUP. 

Soak some nice white beans all night, change 
the water and put them on the fire, when hot 
change again, add plenty of water and put 
them on to parboil, put a piece of pork in 
another boiler and partly cook it, then put your 
pork in w^hatever you intend for your soup and 
put in plenty of water, as soon as the beans 
begin to break, skim them out and put them with 
the pork, add a piece of red pepper pod, or some 
cayenne, the pod is best, if the pork is like 
to be done too much it should be taken out, at 
a suitable time put in some slices of turnip and 
when they have boiled a while some potatoes, 
and twenty minutes before dinner some Indian 
dumplings, stir a thickening with a little flour 
and some fine Indian meal. It can be made 
with beef instead of pork, but it must be boiled 
a good deal before it goes into the soup or it 
will be too salt. 



22 RECEIPTS. 

CORN SOUP. 

Boil six ears of corn in just water enough to 
cover them, after boiling until quite tender, 
take out the corn and cut it from the cob, put 
the cobs into the water again and boil an hour, 
take them out and put in the corn, a little red 
pepper and some salt, then add a quart of milk, 
make it boil and add a piece of butter rubbed 
with flour. 

ANOTHER. 

Grate corn from four ears, boil the cobs in a 
quart of water a few minutes, take them out, 
put in the corn, boil five minutes, add two 
beaten eggs, a cup of milk, two spoonfuls of 
flour, salt and pepper and boil up. 

PEA SOUP. 

Soak over night one pint and a half of peas, 
add six quarts of water, one pound of pork, boil 
five or six hours. Strain through a colander, 
then add pepper, salt, and some more water if 
necessary. 

TO BAKE PORK AND BEANS. 

Prepare the beans as directed for bean soup, 
then parboil a piece of pork and take the rind 
off carefully so as not to waste any, and cut it 



MEATS, &C., 23 

in very small squares on the top, skim your 
beans out from the water and put them in a 
deep dish or iron basin, with a piece of red 
pepper and water to nearly cover them, make a 
place in the center large enough to admit the 
pork, set them in the oven to bake from an 
hour and a half to two hours, according to the 
quantity, add boiling water if they are like to 
get too dry. 

TO BOIL SALT MEAT. 

Wash your beef, pour cold water over and 
put it on the fire with a slow heat, take off the 
scum as it rises, and let it boil as much as three 
hours, about two hours before dinner wash your 
pork, scrape the rind nicely and put it on in 
another boiler with a small piece of red pepper, 
if you wish to boil cabbage, cut the head in 
quarters, wash and leave it in cold water until 
about an hour before dinner, then put it in to 
boil, if a large head give it more time, in about 
ten minutes add the turnips, and twenty-five or 
thirty minutes before dinner some peeled pota- 
toes, some Indian dumplings would be very 
nice, boil them twenty minutes ; if you wish to 
cook beets or squashes they can be put in with 
the beef. If corned beef is used, it can all be 



24 RECEIPTS. 

put ill the same boiler, but the fat should be 
taken off before the vegetables are put in. 

TO COOK CODFISH. 

Cut up your fish, put it on the fire in cold 
water and let it heat very gradually, but it must 
not get too hot, in about an hour scrape the 
fish very clean and get off all the skin, then 
put it in clean cold water, peal your potatoes 
and put them on with the fish and plenty of 
water in season for them to get to boiling in 
time to be done for dinner ; the potatoes are 
much better for boiling with the fish. I have 
seen fish soaked until it was quite tasteless. 
It wants to be served with drawn butter or 
pork cut fine and fried a light brown, boiled 
eggs, onions, beets, and squash, or stewed 
pumpkin. 

FISH BALLS. 

Take the fish that is left, pick out all the 
bones and chop it with the potatoes, and eggs 
if there are any, then put in the butter or pork, 
a little cayenne pepper, and mix altogether 
with a spoon, make it up in flat balls and fry 
out pork enough to have plenty of fat, roll the 
balls in flour and fry them a light brown. You 
will find them verv nice. 



FOR DESSERT AND EYENING. 25 

A YORKSHIRE PUDDING, 

To bake with roast, beef. To a quart of 
milk, add four eggs beat light, three cups of 
flour sifted and stirred into the milk with a 
little salt. An hour before dinner take out 
your beef and turn off the gravy, then turn in 
the pudding, and set in a little iron drainer 
made for the purpose, to rest the meat on and 
set it back in the oven. 

INDIAN DUMPLINGS. 

Mix your meal with water that almost boils, 
make them up and put them in to boil about 
twenty minutes moderately, they will come to 
pieces if they boil hard. Some prefer to stir 
up the meal with hot water and put it in a 
clean cloth, as they are apt to break if not prop- 
erly managed. An hour will cook it in this 
way. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 

BOILED HUNTER'S PUDDING. 

Two pounds grated bread, two pounds of 
currants, one pound of citron cut fine, one 
pound of suet, one of stoned raisins, half a pint 



26 RECEIPTS. 

of wine, two gills of brandy, one pound of 
sugar, nine eggs, half an ounce of mace, cin- 
namon, cloves and nutmeg ; boil five hours. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, three fourths of beef 
suet chopped as fine as possible, three fourths 
of a pound of currants, one fourth of stoned 
raisins, five eggs, a little lemon peel grated, half 
of a nutmeg, one gill of cream, a little salt, two 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, two of brandy; mix 
them all together, and tie it up in a cloth, two 
hours will boil it. Wine, sugar and butter for 
sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of suet chopped 
fine, one cup of raisins cut fine, three cups of 
flour and one of milk, one tea- spoonful of 
saleratus, one of nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon. 
Boil in a cloth three hours. Sauce, whites of 
two eggs beat to a foam, four table-spoonfuls 
of sugar, flavor with brandy or wine. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 

Two pounds blanched almonds pounded with 
a little cream, one half a pound of sugar, and 
one of butter, beat together, the whites of seven 
eggs, a little grated bread or sponge cake ; wet 
with wine or a little rose water. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 27 

WASHINGTON PUDDING. 

Bake a sponge cake in a mould just as it is 
wanted for dinner. When very hot spread 
some hard sauce of butter, sugar and wine over 
it. This will melt and soak into the cake. 
Take a handful of blanched almonds, split them 
in four pieces and stick them over the cake. 
Eat with cream, wine and sugar. Let the cake 
be served as hot as possible. Some prefer wine 
turned over the cake instead of sauce, and to 
eat it with soft custard. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Three fourths of a pound of currants, one 
half pound of raisins chopped fine, one half 
pound of beef suet chopped fine, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one dozen eggs well beaten, 
one half of a nutmeg or other spice, the crumbs 
of the soft part only of one brick loaf of bakers 
bread made very fine. Mix the eggs and suet 
together, add the fruit, sugar and spice, then 
the bread crumbs. Mix all well together. Boil 
four and a half hours. Eat with wine sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

One quarter of a pound of butter, well beat- 
en with the same of sugar, four eggs well 
beaten also ; mace or nutmeg, one pint of stewed 



28 RECEIPTS. 

apples, two large spoonfuls of grated bread 
and a glass of wine. You may put less butter 
and more apples and bread, according to judg- 
ment. It requires no sauce. Bake in a pud- 
ding dish. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Pick and wash one teacup full of tapioca, 
add five cups of milk, put it to heat, but not 
boil, when the milk is quite thick, add four 
eggs, a little salt, and bake an hour. Eat with 
sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Can be made in the same way as tapioca, 
using two eggs only. A very nice rice pudding 
can be made without any eggs and sweetened 
to eat with butter. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Eight ounces of pounded crackers, seven 
eggs, one quart of milk, six ounces of butter, 
six of sugar, three fourths of a pound of fruit, 
one glass of wine or brandy and spice to your 
taste. Boil your milk and turn over the crack- 
ers, butter and sugar, when cold add the other 
ingredients. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 29 

RICE CUPS. 

To a tea-cup full of rice put three cups of 
water, two of milk and a little salt, set it where 
it will have a boiling heat, but it must not boil, 
if it does it will stick to the bottom of the ket- 
tle. When done, beat an egg with a little 
white sugar and stir in while it is cooking with 
a small piece of butter, when the egg is cooked 
dip it into cups, wetting them first with cold 
water, make a soft custard and when the cups 
are cold, turn them into a dish and turn the 
custard over them, or eat with sweetened cream 
flavored with wine and nutmeg. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Butter your pan very well, then lay a mix- 
ture of currants and citron, alternately with 
thick slices of bread and butter till your pan is 
nearly full, then pour on your custard ; half an 
hour will bake it. 

TO BAKE APPLES FOR DESSERT. 

Take nice ripe greening apples, peel them 
and cut out the cores, fill the place with white 
sugar, cut a strip of citron or lemon peel and 
put in with the sugar, set them in the oven and 
bake until they are soft. They are very nice to 
eat with cream for dessert, or to put on the tea- 
table. 



30 RECEIPTS. 

QUINCES, 

Are still better cooked in the same way with- 
out the flavoring. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Peel nice mellow greenings, cut them in two 
pieces and take out the core, then mash some 
potatoes and sift through a colander, put in a 
piece of butter and a little salt, then stir in 
milk to make it about as stiff as pound cake, 
add the white of an egg beat light, and mix in 
flour to make it hard enough to roll, make up 
your dumplings and put them in boiling water 
with plenty of room. They will cook in about 
half an hour. If the apples are large they had 
better be cut in quarters and two or three 
pieces put together for the dumpjing. 

WHORTLEBERRY DUMPLINGS. 

Make a crust as you would for short biscuit, 
beat the white of one or two eggs very light 
and stir in to prevent their boiling to pieces, 
roll out pieces of a suitable size, put in the 
berries and close them tight, have the water 
boiling moderately all the time. They will 
cook in twenty minutes or a little more and 
should be eaten as soon as they are done — give 
them plenty of room for they will rise in the 
kettle. Soda crust is best. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 31 

A NICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Take a bowl the size of the pudding you 
wish to boil, fill it up with slices of bread and 
butter, with cut raisins or currants strewed be- 
tween, when crowded full, boil milk and turn 
in, let it stand fifteen or twenty minutes, have 
your water boiling, set the bowl into the pud- 
ding cloth and tie it up very tight, then set it 
into the water. The bowl must be kept right 
or the milk will run out. Boil from one to two 
hours, according to the size. 

ARROWROOT PUDDING. 

A quart of milk, four tea-spoons of arrow-root, 
three eggs, butter the size of an egg. Boil the 
milk, then stir in the arrow-root dissolved and 
the eggs together. To be eaten with sauce. 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

Six apples pared and chopped fine, six ounces 
of bread crumbed very fine, six ounces of sugar, 
six of currants, six eggs, salt and nutmeg. 
Boil it three hours. To be eaten with hard or 
soft sauce. 

A PLAIN FLOUR PUDDING. 

Eight eggs well beaten, a quart of milk, a 
little salt, flour to make a thin batter. Boil it 
two hours. 



32 RECEIPTS. 

TROY PUDDING. 

Take of raisins, suet, molasses and milk, one 
cup of each, three and one half cups of flour, 
one tea-spoonful of saleratus; boil it in a 
cloth three hours. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One cup and a half of si\gar, one half cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, four eggs, two tea-spoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, make* as 
stiff as pound cakes, fruit if you please. It can 
either be baked or boiled one hour. 

INDIAN. OR GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk to eight large spoonfuls 
of very fine sifted Indian meal, or six of ground 
rice, six eggs and a piece of butter the size of 
an egg; sugar and spice to your taste, one 
wine-glass of wine or brandy with one pound 
of raisins or currants. Bake it one and a half 
hours. Thicken the milk with the meal or rice 
the same as for porridge. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core eight or ten apples, fill the 
middle of them with sugar, make a batter of 
one quart of milk, six eggs, four or five spoon- 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 33 

fals of flour, a little salt, pour it over the ap- 
ples and bake it three-fourths of an hour ; serve 
with sauce. 

ICE PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk, or milk and water ; 
then stir in four large table-spoonfuls of 
Farina previously dissolved in a part of the 
milk, continue the boiling from half an hour to 
an hour. When done, turn it into a jelly- 
mould, and place it in ice or cold water to 
stiffen. 

BAKED PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk or water, and add the 
Farina as above. While the mass is cooling, 
take four eggs and half a pound of sugar ; beat 
up well with a quart of milk and stir into the 
mass of the Farina which should be luke-warm 
at the time ; add spices if desirable. Put into 
pans and bake. 

DELMONICO PIE. 

Four table-spoonfuls of corn starch, one 
quart of milk ; wet the starch with a little of 
the milk, heat the remainder till nearly boil- 
ing, stir in the starch and boil a very few 
minutes, then turn into a dish, add the 
beaten yolks of four eggs, sweeten and sea- 



34 RECEIPTS. 

son as for custard. Line two small deep 
dishes with paste, pour the mixture in and 
bake till the custard is done. After they are 
taken from the oven let them cool, take the 
whites of four eggs and beat to a stiff froth, 
then flavor three table-spoonfuls of fine white 
sugar with lemon, or anything else preferred, 
stir well into the whites, and divide the mixture 
over the two pies. Heturn them to the oven 
only long enough to give them a delicate brown. 

DROP CAKES. 

One pint of cream, four eggs, one tea-spoon- 
ful of saleratus or soda, a little salt, flour for 
a rich batter. Eat with sauce. 

ANOTHER. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one tea-spoon- 
ful of soda, a little salt, a small piece of butter 
melted, and one pint of flour just sifted. Eat 
with sauce. 

BERRY PUDDING. 

One cup and a half of sugar, butter the size 
of an egg, one half pint of milk, one tea-spoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in milk, two tea-spoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar sifted in flour, three 
eggs, one pint of berries, make as stiff as pound 
cake. Boil two hours. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 35 

WHITE POT. 

For a quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of 
flour and one of Indian meal, two of molasses 
and one egg; scald the milk and stir in the 
above, beaten well together ; let it hang over a 
gentle fire one hour. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Boil your milk, add a little salt, and stir in 
sifted flour while boiling, until it is stiff enough 
to mould, keep stirring until well cooked, put 
in a bowl and turn out to eat with sauce. Wet 
the bowl with cold water. 

HASTY PUDDING. 

Boil some water and thicken with flour as 
you would for thin starch; sift some coarse 
meal and stir in until it is quite thick ; keep it 
boiling all the time you are putting in the meal, 
which must be done gradually, salt to the taste, 
boil it well. Put it in a bowl and turn out, eat 
with cream and molasses. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

One quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of 
rice, a piece of butter as big as a walnut, sugar 
to the taste. Bake two hours and stir often 
while baking. 



36 RECEIPTS. 

RICE PIES. 

One quart of milk, six eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of ground rice. Cook the rice a little 
in the milk, stirring it constantly while on the 
fire, and put the egg in when hot. The rind 
of two lemons, and the juice of one, or any flavor 
you choose. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

Make a light hard sauce of butter, sugar and 
wine. Thicken some boiling water with a little 
flour ; while boiling, turn it upon the sauce 
and stir it briskly. Send it hot to the table 
with the pudding. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of butter, 
a heaping tea-spoonful of flour well beaten, add 
a cup nearly full of boiling water, and stir until 
it has boiled up once. 

ANOTHER. 

Beat the white of two eggs very light, then 
beat in sifted white sugar as you would for 
frosting, add a little melted butter and flavor 
with wine and nutmeg, or any way you please. 
Extract of vanilla is very nice. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 37 

ANOTHER. 

Beat some sugar and butter very light, flavor 
with wine and nutmeg; just before you want 
it for the table, put it on the fire and stir all the 
time until it is melted. Send it foaming to the 
table. 

WINE SAUCE. 

A tea-cup of wine boiled ; one egg well beat- 
en with a tea-cup of sugar, butter the size of 
an egg, and some nutmeg ; stir all the time 
while boiling. 

PIE CRUST. 

To three pounds of fiour, add one pound of 
butter, one half a pound of lard, leave out 
butter enough to roll in once, mix it in with a 
spoon or knife, the less you work it with your 
hands the better. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One and one fourth pounds of flour, leaving 
out one half pound to roll it out with. One 
pound of butter divided into four parts, cut one 
fourth into the flour mixed with one half pint 
of water, roll it out, then spread one other 
fourth of the butter, sprinkle a little flour out 
of the half pound reserved, roll it out again, 



38 RECEIPTS. 

add butter and flour as before until it is all 
used. The above will make four pies. 

MINCE PIES. 

Take one pound of meat, one of suet, one of 
currants, one of sugar, spice to the taste, juice 
of a lemon ; wet with Madeira wine. 

ANOTHER. 

Take a neats tongue, boil it, skin and chop 
it very fine; two pounds of suet, two pounds of 
apples, two of currants, two of raisins cut in 
halves and the seeds taken out, one half of a 
pound of citron cut fine, one large nutmeg, one 
half ounce of cinnamon, cloves and mace, the 
whole powdered very fine ; two pounds of sugar, 
one and a half pint of wine, one half pint of 
brandy, the peel grated and juice of a lemon. 

ANOTHER. 

Ten pounds of meat, five of suet, ten of ap- 
ples, five of sugar, five of raisins, six nut-, 
megs, four table-spoonfuls of cloves, six of 
cinnamon, four of mace, one pint of brandy 
and as much wine, eight table-spoonfuls of 
salt. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 39 

CRACKER MINCE PIES. 

Fourteen crackers pounded, two cups of mo- 
lasses and two of sugar, three cups of cider, 
two of seeded raisins, a tea-cup half full of 
butter and spice to the taste, the juice of one 
lemon. 

TURN OVER PIES. 

Cut some nice sour apples as you would for 
pies, put them in deep plates, roll a crust rather 
thick and put it over them. Bake half an hour 
or a little more, when cool take off the crust 
and turn it over on another plate, sweeten the 
apple to the taste and stir in a little cream or 
butter, spread it smooth over the crust and 
grate on some nutmeg. 

WASHINGTON PIES. 

Take a round shallow tin, straight at the sides, 
(it must not slant any,) if you want to make 
the crust of sponge cake, bake them about half 
an inch thick and use two, putting the jelly or 
preserves between them. If you prefer pound 
cake bake it twice as thick and cut it round 
and put in whatever you like ; strawberries are 
very nice for this purpose, but most people use 

jelly. 



40 RECEIPTS. 

COCOANTJT PUDDING. 

Three fourths of a pound of loaf sugar; 
clarify and boil it to a thick syrup, grate the 
cocoanut into the syrup and boil it together for 
fifteen minutes over a slow fire, stirring it all 
the time. Let it cool and add the yolks of three 
or four eggs and a little rosewater, put a paste 
in your pans, fill and bake them. 

CHEESE CAKES. 

Take one pint of milk, let it boil, beat five 
yolks and two whites of eggs, stir them in the 
milk, boil them until the curd is hard, squeeze 
it in a cloth until it is very dry. Add one half 
of a pound of blanched almonds, beat fine, mix 
it with the curd, half a pound of sugar, one 
fourth of a pound of butter melted in rose- 
water, four eggs, mix all well together and bake 
it in puff paste laid in small saucers. 

APPLE PUDDINGS. 

Two pounds of apple, after it is stewed and 
sifted ; one pound of sugar and three fourths of 
butter rubbed together ; seven eggs beat separ- 
ately, the juice of an orange or lemon, a little 
of the peel grated, a glass of wine and spice 
if you like. Bake in a crust. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 41 

POTATO PUDDINGS. 

Two pounds of potatoes after they are boiled 
and sifted, one pound of sugar and three fourths* 
of butter rubbed together, seven eggs, the juice 
of an orange, a little wine, one nutmeg, half a 
pound of currants. Bake in a crust. 

PUMPKIN PUDDINGS. 

One quart of stewed and strained pumpkin, 
add nine eggs, three pints of cream, sugar, mace 
or nutmeg. If you have not cream use butter. 
Bake in a crust. 

LEMON PUDDINGS. 

The yolks of ten eggs, six ounces of sugar, 
six of butter, four spoonfuls of wine, four of 
cream, one York biscuit pounded very fine, two 
lemons grated with the juice of one. Garnish 
the dish with paste ; if you have almonds, one 
fourth of a pound instead of the biscuit. 

CREAM PIES. 

Boil one quart of milk and thicken it with 
flour, add three eggs, sweeten and flavor it to 
the taste. Bake between two crusts. 

LEMON PIES. 

Take the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one 
cup of butter, one of sugar, peel and juice of one 

D2 



42 KECEIPTS. 

lemon, a cup half full of milk with a tea-spoonful 
of corn-starch ; when baked, take the whites of 
three eggs, add four table-spoonfuls of sugar, 
and a little lemon juice. Spread over the pie 
and put it in the oven a few moments to harden. 

LEMON PIES. 

Ten eggs, three cups of sugar, three and a 
half cups of milk, one half cup of butter, two 
lemons ; rub the butter and sugar together, then 
add juice, then eggs, and then milk. Grate 
some of the peel. 

WINE JELLY. 

To three ounces of gelatine put two quarts 
of water, the juice of six lemons, the peel of 
two grated, a little cinnamon, the whites of six 
eggs, one pound and three quarters of sugar, 
and one pint of wine ; mix the ingredients all 
together in cold water, then put it on the fire, 
stir it often to keep it from sticking to the bot- 
tom of the kettle, boil about five minutes, dip 
the fiannel bag in clean hot water before using, 
and turn some through before the jelly is 
strained. It can be made with the juice of four 
lemons and one and a half pounds of sugar 
It is rather a better way to add the wine after 
the jelly is strained. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 43 

ICE CREAM. 

One quart of milk, one of cream, one pound 
of sugar, six eggs, put the milk and cream over 
a slow fire, beat the eggs and sugar, and when 
the milk is about ready to boil, stir them in 
and take it off, strain it, and when cool, flavor 
to the taste. If you have not plenty of cream 
put in more eggs. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

• Put tw^o pints of cream into two bowls ; with 
one bowl mix six ounces of powdered white 
sugar, the juice of two lemons and two glasses 
of wine ; then add the other pint of cream and 
stir the whole very hard ; boil two ounces of 
isinglass with four small tea-cups full of water 
till it is reduced to about one half; then stir 
the isinglass luke-warm into the other ingredi- 
ents and put all into a glass dish to congeal. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Ten eggs, one pint of cream, one ounce of 
isinglass, one half pound of sugar, half pint of 
milk, half tumbler of white wine ; separate the 
eggs, beating the yolks and whites lightly, mix 
the yolks and sugar together ; dissolve the isin- 
glass in the milk on the fire, whip the cream 
lightly, flavor with a tea-spoonful of vanilla, 



44 RECEIPTS. 

stir slowly until it hardens, then put in moulds, 
having placed sponge cake round the sides ; af- 
ter mixing sugar and eggs together, stir in the 
cream, wine and vanilla, then the isinglass. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Take three pints of rich cream, three fourths 
of a pound of sugar, one and a half ounces of 
isinglass dissolved in a pint .of warm water, six 
eggs, yolks and whites beat separately, add the 
sugar to the cream and the yolks of the eggs, 
when well mixed pour in the isinglass while 
hot, add the whites, flavor it with vanilla, place 
the dish upon ice and salt, stirring it until it 
begins to thicken. Line the tin forms with 
sponge-cake or ladies-fingers, pour the cream 
into the dish and let it stand until firm enough 
to turn out. 

LEMON CUSTARDS. 

The yolks of eighteen eggs should be beat to 
look as white as cream, then grate the peel of 
one lemon and add the juice of two, sweeten to 
the taste. Pour one pint of boiling water to 
the lemon and sugar, then add the yolks, stir 
all together and strain through a sieve, put it 
in an earthen pitcher and set it into a kettle of 
boiling water, keep stirring until it thickens, 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 45 

then turn into jelly glasses. It must be made 
very sweet. For sick persons, less lemon would 
be better. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

Blanch and beat one pound of almonds with 
two spoonfuls of rose-water, add one pint of 
cream and the yolks of four eggs well beaten ; 
sweeten it to your taste. Place this mixture 
over the fire and stir until quite thick, then 
pour it into cups. Bake it or not, as you 
please; new milk will do if you have not 
cream. 

COLD CUSTARD. 

Take three pints of milk, stir in three or four 
table-spoonfuls of rennet wine, stir it and 
strain it through a sieve into dishes, keep it in 
a warm place until it hardens. For sauce, take 
half a pint of cream, add a few spoonfuls of 
white wine and sugar. Grate nutmeg over 
both sauce and custard. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

Boil a quart of milk, beat seven eggs, turn 
the boiling milk to the eggs, stirring all the 
time, sweeten to the taste, strain it into a pitcher. 



46 RECEIPTS. 

set the pitcher into boiling water, and let it boil 
until it thickens, stirring all the time for if it 
curdles it is spoiled ; flavor as you please, turn 
it into custard glasses. 

ARROW-ROOT CUSTARD. 

In winter, when eggs are scarce, take two 
table-spoonfuls of arrow-root mixed in a tea- 
cup full of cold milk, boil a quart of milk, beat 
three eggs and mix in the arrow-root, pour in 
the boiling milk, stirring all the time; put it in 
a pitcher and boil as before directed. 

BLANC MANGE. 

To two quarts of milk, (wine measure) add 
one box of gelatine and one half pound of 
sugar, put them altogether over a slow fire, 
stirring it often until the gelatine is dissolved, 
then strain through a muslin sieve into a large 
pitcher and set it away to cool, stir it often to 
prevent the cream from rising ; do not put it 
in the moulds until it begins to harden around 
the sides of the pitcher ; if you do, the cream 
will rise to the top and leave the other part like 
skimmed milk ; flavor to the taste ; vanilla is 
very nice, but must not be put in when it is 
hot. 



FOR DESSERT AND EVENING. 47 

ARROW-IIOOT BLANC MANGE. 

To a quart of milk take four table-spoonfuls 
of arrow-root, leave out cold milk sufficient to 
wet the arrow-root and put the other on to boil, 
when it boils stir in your thickening with ver)^ 
little salt ; keep it stirring a few minutes on the 
fire to cook thoroughly, sweeten and flavor to 
the taste. Very little sugar is necessary if you 
eat it with cream-sauce, but more if you want 
to use clear cream. Farina Blanc Mange can 
be made in the same way. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One half a pound of butter, one pound of 
flour, ten eggs, one pint of boiling water, pour 
the water boiling on the butter, set it on the 
fire and when it boils again, stir in the flour. 
Beat the eggs and mix with the dough, stir 
until almost cold, then with a spoon drop the 
cakes very thin into the pan for baking, then 
take one cup of flour, two of sugar, one quart 
of milk, four eggs ; boil the milk, beat the 
flour, sugar and eggs together and stir them 
into the milk while boiling till sufficiently scald- 
ed ; flavor with lemon or whatever you like. 
When the cakes are baked, open them a little 
at the side, and put in as much of the mixture 
as you can. 



48 RECEIPTS. 



PORCUPINE 



Bake a round loaf of sponge cake the size of 
the dish you want to use, wet it with wine, then 
make a soft custard and turn over it, have some 
nice blanched almonds and stick them all over 
the top, the smallest end up. It makes a very 
pretty dish. You will find it very nice pudding 
without the almonds. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 

SPONGE WHITE BREAD. 

Take a quart of warm water and sift in flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, add half a tea- 
cup full of yeast and set in a warm place to 
rise, when very light, stir in a little salt, and 
flour sufficient to put it in the pans, but it must 
not be mixed hard, set it in a warm place to 
rise again light, but not too long to get sour. 
If your sponge should get acid, put in a little 
soda ; if the yeast is sweet and the bread mixed 
at the proper time, it is better without it. Some 
prefer to have a little new milk put in when the 
bread is mixed, not into the sponge. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 4:9 

GKAHAM BREAD, 

Can be made in the same way. To one quart 
of Graham meal put one pint of flour, a table- 
spoonful of brown sugar and a little salt. 

SODA BREAD. 

To one quart of flour put one tea-spoonful of 
soda and two of cream of tartar heaped a little 
more than the soda ; if water is used, put in a 
small piece of butter, dissolve the soda in warm 
water, add a little salt. For short biscuit add 
more butter. 

SHORT BISCUIT. 

To one quart bowl of raised dough perfectly 
sweet, put one quarter of a pound of melted 
butter, and set in a warm place to rise again ; it 
must not be worked any more ; roll it out as 
carefully as you can. Bake in a quick oven ; 
if you wish them very short, add more butter. 

ANOTHER. 

To one quart bowl of raised dough, add one 
half pound of butter, roll out the dough and 
spread on the butter in two or three rollings, 
dredging in flour each time ; cut them out and 
let them rise a little while in the pans before 
you bake them. 



50 RECEIPTS. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take one and a half pints of bread in the 
sponge, two eggs, one tea-spoonful of white 
sugar, one tea-cup of flour, one half tea-spoon- 
ful of soda ; let it stand one hour before baking. 

LITTLE PUDDINGS. 

Half a pint of cream, one table-spoonful of 
flour, one of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and 
a little nutmeg ; fill the tea-cups half full and 
bake in a quick oven. When turned out, shake 
a little sugar over them. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Take of Indian meal sifted through a coarse 
wire sieve two or three quarts, scald it with 
boiling water and set it to cool, then take an 
equal quantity of Graham meal, make a sponge 
with about half of it, a little new yeast and 
warm water, when light mix altogether with a 
little molasses and put it in the pan and let it 
stand awhile to rise, but not to sour. Bake 
three or four hours. If you use rye meal, one 
third rye, and two thirds Indian is best. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Take a pint of Indian meal, scald it with 
water, then add some milk as quick as you can 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 51 

before it hardens, stir in two or three eggs and 
a little salt ; make it about as stiff as griddle 
cakes and bake it thin in a quick oven, when 
done cut it into square pieces. Some like a 
little sugar. 

ANOTHER. 

Take a quart of scalded milk, a pint of Indian 
meal ; when cool add two eggs, salt, and bake 
them. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Three pints of flour, one pint of new milk, 
one cup of white sugar, one fourth of a pound 
of butter, one gill of yeast, three eggs and a 
little salt ; rub the butter into the flour, warm 
the milk and pour it on the flour and butter, 
beat the eggs and sugar well together and add 
them with the yeast, beat the whole well and 
set it to rise. I think it rather better to mix 
the milk, flour and yeast together, and let them 
rise, then add the rest and rise again. 

CREAM TEA CAKES. 

One pint of cream, two or three eggs, a little 
salt, half a tea-spoonful of pearlash, flour 
enough to make a batter just stiff enough to 
dip into pans. Bake them quickly. 



62 RECEIPTS. 

MUFFINS. 

One quart of new milk just warm, add sifted 
flour sufficient to make a batter and a cup half 
full of sweet yeast ; when risen add four eggs, 
beat light, two table-spoonfuls of melted butter. 
Griddle cakes can be made in the same way, 
only not so thick ; with or without sugar as 
you please. 

WAFFLES. 

One pound of flour, one half of butter, four 
eggs, one gill of yeast, and a little sugar. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Three coffee-cups of sifted Indian meal, one 
coffee-cup of rye meal, Graham or wheat flour, 
two table-spoonfuls of yeast and a salt-spoon of 
salt ; wet at night with nearly a quart of water, 
and in the morning, add a tea-spoonful of dis- 
solved saleratus. If Graham flour is used, add 
a very little molasses. 

SODA MUFFINS. 

One quart of milk, flour enough to make the 
batter of suitable thickness, piece of butter half 
the size of an egg melted into a little of the 
milk; one tea-spoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 53 

GRAHAM SODA BISCUIT. 

One quart of Graham flour, one tea-spoonful 
of soda dissolved in two thirds of a tea-cup 
full of molasses ; mix with milk and water. 

WAFFLES AND FLANNEL CAKES. 

One quart of milk, from three to five eggs, 
nearly a tea-cup of yeast, a piece of butter about 
the size of an egg, flour enough to make a soft 
batter. Mix the milk, yeast and flour well 
together, and place it in a warm place to rise. 
In winter it will require about six hours, and 
in summer about four to rise. When the time 
has half elapsed, stir in the butter, which should 
be melted, and the eggs well beaten; allow it to 
rise for the remainder of the time. If a piece 
of raised dough is used, it will be sufiiciently 
light in half the time. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Two eggs, one pint of milk, and flour enough 
to make a thick batter, cut wheat bread into 
very thin slices, and soak them in sweetened 
water; cover each side successively with the 
batter, and fry brown in lard. Eat while hot 
with butter and white powdered sugar. 

E3 



54 RECEIPTS. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil a quart of milk and stir in four table- 
spoonfuls of Indian meal and four of grated 
bread or crackers, three table-spoonfuls of 
sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter as large as a 
walnut and a little salt. Bake it three hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts of boiled milk poured upon meal 
enough to make it quite thick, add a little cold 
to thin it; suet chopped very fine, should be 
rubbed into the meal with a spoon before the 
milk is added ; molasses and salt to the taste. 

A VERY SIMPLE INDIAN PUDDING. 

Cut and chop eight or ten sweet apples, put 
them on the fire with two quarts of milk, when 
it boils stir in meal until it is about as thick as 
hasty pudding, then add a little cold milk and 
molasses, salt to the taste ; let it stand in the 
oven all night. Bake in an earthen dish. 

CORN PUDDING. 

To two dozen ears of corn grated, put three 
eggs, sugar and salt to the taste, a very little 
flour or pounded cracker, milk according to 
your judgment; if the corn is young it takes 
very little. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 55 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

To one pint of milk, three eggs, a little sugar 
and salt, flour, and fine Indian meal enough to 
thicken them to fry, three or four apples cut 
fine. Drop them in hot lard. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Two tea-cups of rice, boil it, add four eggs, 
a dredging box of flour, drop the batter into 
hot fat, keep them stirring all the time, eat 
them with wine and sugar, or make a sauce of 
butter, wine, &c., as sauce for pudding. 

RYE AND INDIAN DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint of Indian meal scalded with milk, 
one pint of rye meal, one half pint of molasses, 
one gill of yeast, three eggs, four ounces of 
butter, a little spice and as much flour as will 
knead it to the consistency of rye and Indian 
bread. 

RYE AND INDIAN DROP CAKES. 

One pint of Indian meal, one half pint of rye 
meal, two eggs, two spoonfuls of molasses, a 
little salt ; work it with cold milk so as to drop 
from a spoon into hot fat ; be sure to have a 
smooth batter. 



56 RECEIPTS. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One half pint fine Indian meal, scalded with 
milk, three spoonfuls of cream or butter, two 
of sugar, four eggs and a little flour. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

To one pint of grated corn, add two eggs and 
a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a little 
milk, salt and flour ; they may be baked on the 
griddle, or dropped into hot lard. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Made in the same way, leaving out the sugar, 
and season with pepper and salt, and put in a 
little more butter. 

INDIAN BANNOCK. 

Scald one pint of very fine meal, so carefully 
as to have no lumps ; add to it one quart of 
milk, six eggs, a very little sugar, and a little 
salt. 

ANOTHER. 

One pint of Indian meal, pour on it one pint 
of boiling milk, then add one pint of cold milk, 
four, five or six eggs, as convenient, salt to the 
taste ; bake in tin pans three quarters of an 
hour. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 57 

WINDHAM CAKE. 

Three cups of Indian meal, two cups of flour, 
one half cup of molasses or sugar, a tea-spoon- 
ful of saleratus or soda, a little salt, three eggs ; 
mix with milk enough to pour. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

One cup of flour scalded with one cup of 
water, three cups of warm water, one of mo- 
lasses, two of rye, one cup of yeast, made to a 
stiff batter, with flour and a little salt. Bake 
in muffin rings. 

MUFFINS. 

One cup of dough, four eggs, one and one 
half pint of milk, make a stiff batter with flour, 
three spoonfuls of melted butter, a little salt, a 
tea-spoonful of sugar, one half tea-spoonful of 
saleratus just before baking. Bake in tin rings. 
The dough should be mixed with the milk an 
hour before the other ingredients are added. 

RICE CAKES. 

Take a large tea-cup full of rice well picked 
and washed, boil it with water until quite soft, 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg ; when 
the rice is cold beat four eggs, (the whites sep- 
arate,) a little flour for thickening, then add 



58 RECEIPTS. 

your milk and cream, and when mixed to a 
pretty thick batter, add the whites of the eggs 
well beaten, a little salt, sugar and spice. Bake 
them on a griddle. 

DROP CAKES. 

Three cups of sifted flour, three cups of rich 
milk, three well beaten eggs, half fill the cups 
with the batter. Bake twenty-five minutes. 

TEA CAKES. 

Make a sponge in the morning as you would 
for bread, with a pint of warm water and half 
a tea-cup full of yeast, set it in a warm place to 
rise, about two hours before tea ; have ready 
four nice boiled potatoes, mash them fine, and 
put in a piece of butter nearly as large as a 
hen's egg, sift it through a wire sieve, and stir 
it into the sponge ; add a little salt if necessary, 
and a tea-spoonful of white sugar, put in suf- 
ficient flour to make it about as thick as drop 
cakes. They should be made stiffer than muf- 
fins as there are no eggs in them. The sponge 
must not be stirred again after the second rising 
but dipped carefully into little tea-cake tins or 
muffin rings and baked quick ; if there seems 
to be any soda needed it should be put in with 
the potato. If they are made right they are 



BREAKFAST AND TEA. 59 

excellent, greatly superior to the tea cakes made 
of cream of tartar and soda. 

FAYAL BISCUIT. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of milk, one 
tea-spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls of c'ream 
of tartar, three eggs beat light, a little sugar, and 
a piece of butter the size of an egg; bake in 
tea cake tins or muffin rings. 

APPLE POT PIE. 

Peel and quarter your apples, put them in a 
pot, then turn a half pint of boiling water to a 
tea-cup full of sugar, strain it into the apple; 
have a crust ready of nice light dough, as for 
bread, either made of soda or raised with a little 
piece of butter worked in, cut it in pieces about 
as large as a tea-cup and place them round the 
sides of the pot, and some in the centre if 
necessary. Let it cook quite fast at first, and 
then more gradually, or it will burn. It will 
be done in about three quarters of an hour. 
It is a nice way to partly cook your apples and 
then turn them into a deep earthen dish, lay 
your crust cut in small pieces over the top'and 
set it into the oven to bake, when the crust is a 
nice light brown, cover a plate over the top to 
prevent it from getting too hard. The crust re- 
quires a little more shortening if it is baked. 



60 RECEIPTS. 

BAKED WHORTLEBERRY HOLLOW. 

Take some nice light dough prepared as for 
short biscuit, line the sides of a deep dish, wash 
your berries and drain them in a sieve or colan- 
der, put them in with some sugar, a small piece 
of butter and shake a little flour over, roll your 
crust out thick and lay on, pressing close at the 
edge, cut a cross in the centre to keep it from 
bursting out at the side. Bake with a good 
heat at the bottom, from an hour to an hour 
and a half; if it is getting too brown at the 
top, cover with a paper. Eat with butter. 



CAKES, &c. 



BLACK CAKE. 



One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of butter, twelve eggs, leave out the 
whites of six, two pounds of currants, two 
pounds of raisins, one and one fourth pounds of 
citron, three nutmegs, one tea-spoonful of mace, 
a wine glass three times full of brandy, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon ; cut the citron in slices 
and put in a layer of cake and a layer of citron 
until it is all used. Bake gradually four or five 
hours. 



CAKES, &C. 61 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One and one half pounds of flour, one and 
one half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, 
three pounds of currants and raisins, three nut- 
megs, mace and cinnamon, tea-cup twice full of 
milk, one wine-glass of brandy, eight eggs, 
three fourths of a pound of citron cut fine. 
Bake from two and a half to three hours in two 
loaves. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

One and one half pounds of flour, one and 
one half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, 
two and one half pounds of fruit, one half 
pound of citron cut fine, eight eggs, tea-cup 
twice full of milk, three nutmegs, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon. 

LADY CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, fourteen ounces of 
flour, twelve ounces of butter, four ounces 
of almonds, a few of them bitter, or a tea- 
spoonful of extract of bitter almonds, the white 
of eighteen eggs beat very light. Bake grad- 
ually. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Nine eggs, their weight in sugar, the weight 
of six in flour, the peel and half the juice of a 



62 RECEIPTS. 

small lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar well 
together, then beat the whites very light and 
add; stir in the flour carefully. Bake grad- 
ually with but little heat at the top. 

ALMOND SPONGE CAKE, 

Made in the same way, only add a tea-cup 
half full of pounded almonds, and flavor with 
bitter almonds. 

CITRON CAKE. 

Eight eggs, their weight in flour, the same of 
sugar, the weight of fiYe in butter, a little 
mace, chop some citron fine and put in a layer 
of cake and a layer of citron alternately. 

RAISED CAKE. 

Three pounds of raised dough, one pound of 
sugar, three and one fourth pounds of butter, 
one and one half pounds of raisins, one wine- 
glass of brandy, one table-spoonful of cinna- 
mon, fiYe eggs, beat well the butter, sugar and 
eggs, then add the dough, which should be 
made with yeast and perfectly sweet. 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
half pound of butter, ^ye eggs, one gill of 
brandy, one gill of cream or milk, one pound 



CAKES, &C. 63 

of currants or raisins, spice to your taste ; add 
the butter to the sugar and rub them well 
together, beat the eggs well, add some citron to 
improve it. Bake two hours and try it. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of eggs, three fourths of a pound of 
butter, three fourths of a pound of currants, 
one fourth of a pound of citron cut fine, a little 
nutmeg. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, 
three fourths of a pound of butter, one pound 
of eggs, a very little mace. 

RAISED CAKE. 

Four pounds of flour, two and a half of 
sugar, two of butter, one quart of milk, one 
half pint of wine, two gills of yeast, eight 
eggs, two nutmegs, two tea-spoonfuls of cinna- 
mon ; make up the flour, yeast and milk like 
bread, when very light, add the other ingredi- 
ents and put into deep pans and let it stand a 
little while to rise ; one pound of currants, two 
of raisins. 



64 RECEIPTS. 

RICH LOAF CAKE. 

Twelve pounds of flour, six pounds of but- 
ter, seven pounds of sugar, a quart of wine, a 
quart of yeast and a pint of water, forty eggs, 
eight pounds of currants, four ounces of spice, 
(mace, cloves and nutmeg.) Make a sponge of 
eight pounds of flour, four of butter, a quart 
of yeast, twenty eggs, a pint of water ; when 
risen, add seven pounds of sugar, two of butter 
beaten together with twenty eggs, like short 
cake, four pounds of flour, one quart of wine, 
eight pounds of currants and the spice. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Nine pounds of flour, three of butter, five of 
sugar, three of currants or raisins, one quart of 
milk, one quart of yeast, one pint of wine, one 
ounce of spice ; a sponge made with two 
pounds of flour, one half pint of yeast is a bet- 
ter way, observing how much water or milk is 
used, 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of raisins, three fourths of a pound of 
butter, eight eggs, one gill of wine, one lemon, 
one nutmeg ; first stir the butter and sugar 
well together, then add the lemon, then the 



CAKES, &C. 65 

yolks, when well mixed put in the raisins, wine 
and nutmeg, then the whites, then the flour, 
stir as little as possible after the flour is added, 
and bake it immediately. 

ANOTHER. 

Nine pounds of flour, nine of sugar, seven 
and a half of butter, ten of raisins, eight of 
currants, three of citron, forty-two eggs, two 
ounces of mace, nine nutmegs, cloves as you 
please, one and a half pint of brandy, one and 
a half pint of wine. 

WHORTLEBEE-RY CAKE. 

Three cups of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus, two eggs, a little salt, one and one 
half cups of sugar, one half cup of butter, flour 
to make it like pound cake, berries as you like, 
and spice to the taste. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one 
table-spoonful of butter, one tea-spoonful of dry 
cream of tartar, one half a tea-spoonful of soda 
dissolved *n the milk, one eg^, a little cinna- 
mon, and ixour to make it as stiff as pound 
cake. 

F9 



66 RECEIPTS. 

SAMPSON CAKE. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, 
two of butter, twenty eggs, live pounds of cur- 
rants, half a pint of brandy, two pounds of 
citron, one cup of molasses, spice to the taste. 

RAISED DOUGH CAKE. 

Three pounds raised dough, one pound of 
butter, one and a half pounds of sugar, six eggs, 
one glass of brandy, two p*ounds of fruit, spice 
as you like. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

One and three fourth pounds of flour, one 
and one fourth of sugar, three fourths of butter, 
four eggs, one pint of new milk, one gill of 
brandy, fruit and spice according to your liking. 

CIDEE CAKE. 

Two pounds of flour, one of sugar, one half 
a pound of butter, one pint of cider, one pound 
of raisins, some spice, two table-spoonfuls of 
pearlash ; rub the flour and butter together, put 
the sugar into the cider, and bake immediately. 

CUP CAKE. 

Five tea-cups of flour, three of sugar, one of 
butter, one of cream, four eggs, three fourths 
of a pound of currants, one nutmeg. 



CAKES, &C. 67 

NAPLES BISCUIT. 

One pound of sugar, three fourths of flour, 
eight eggs, leaving out the whites of three ; 
drop on tin sheets and bake quick ; flavor as 
you choose. 

MACAROONS. 

One and one fourth pounds almonds blanched 
and pounded, one pound of sugar, the whites of 
two large or three small eggs beat very light, 
add the sugar, gradually beating it all the time, 
stir in the almonds and make them up with a 
tea-spoon, and bake gradually a light brown. 

COCOANUT CAKES, 

Can be made in the same way as macaroons 
with grated cocoanut. Stir in a little flour. 

KISSES. 

Beat the white of eggs very light, and then 
beat in sugar as for frosting. Flavor as you 
please, a little extract of vanilla is nice. Drop 
them very small on white paper, and bake 
gradually. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the white of eggs to a froth, sift your 
sugar through a muslin sieve, put in a little at 
a time, beating it well until sufficiently stiff. 



68 RECEIPTS. 

add lemon juice to the taste, and beat it up 
very light; if you get it too thick to be smooth, 
add the white of another egg to make it right. 
Loaves of fruit cake should have one coat of 
frosting as soon as taken from the oven ; when 
cool, add another and mark it off with a knife 
for cutting. It will take six or eight eggs for 
a square ten pound loaf of wedding cake. 
Light cake that is not to be frosted at the sides, 
can be done at any time. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

Gold and silver cake can be made like pound 
cake — use the whites of the eggs for the silver, 
and the yolks for the golden, flavor as you 
choose. Extract of bitter almond is nice for 
the silver, and lemon for the golden. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Four eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one of milk, ^ve of ilour, spice and fruit 
as you like. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Three cups of dough, three eggs, three cups 
of sugar, one and a half of butter, one nutmeg, 
fruit to your liking. 



CAKES, &C. 69 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, three 
eggs and a little extract of lemon. 

SODA CAKE. 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, two of flour, 
one half cup of butter, the same of milk, one 
tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

SUGAR CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four 
eggs, flour enough to spread thin on tin sheets, 
sift coarse white sugar over and bake quick ; 
then cut into square pieces. Add a little soda 
or saleratus if you choose. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of 
milk, two and a half cups of sugar, one of 
butter, one tea-spoonful of soda. Beat sugar 
and butter together, spice to your taste. Bake 
in a loaf. 

WHORTLEBERRY CAKE. 

Six cups of light dough, three cups of sugar, 
one of butter, three eggs, one pint and a half 
of whortleberries, cinnamon to the taste. No 
saleratus if the dough is sweet. 



70 RECEIPTS. 



BUNS 



Pour a pint and a half of boiling water to 
two cups of brown sugar and a little cinnamon, 
strain it through a sieve and stir a sponge as 
for bread with half a cup of yeast ; set it in a 
warm place to rise ; when very light, add a tea 
cup about two thirds full of butter and flour 
sufficient to roll them out and cut like short 
biscuit, then put them in the pans and let them 
rise light before they are baked. The yeast 
must be new. 

JUMBLES. 

One and one fourth pounds of flour, three 
fourths of sugar, three eggs, a little nutmeg, 
three fourths of a pound of butter. Roll them 
in sugar. 

SOFT JUMBLES. 

Two tea-cups of sugar, one of butter, one of 
cream, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, one egg, a 
little nutmeg. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Three cups of sugar, one and a half cups of 
butter melted, two table-spoonfuls of dissolved 
saleratus, one of ginger, one and a half cups of 
milk ; mix stiff enough to roll in thin sheets. 



CAKES, &C. 71 

SUGAR^COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one of milk or water, 
one egg, a cup two thirds full of butter, a very 
little spice, a tea-spoon even full of dry soda ; 
roll thin and bake quick. 

GINGER CAKES. 

Two and one half pounds of flour, three 
fourths of butter, one pint of molasses, five 
table-spoonfuls of ginger; rub the butter and 
sugar together ; then roll them out very thin 
and cut them into rounds, place them on tin 
sheets and bake them well and they will keep 
good a year. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One tea-cup of sour cream or milk, two tea- 
cups of sugar, one of butter, four eggs, one 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, spice to the taste. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
three eggs, one heaping table-spoonful of butter, 
one tea-spoonful of dissolved saleratus, spice to 
the taste. 

ANOTHER. 

Three cups of raised dough, two cups of 
sugar, three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of butter; 
if made of sweet raised dough it needs no 



72 RECEIPTS. 

saleratus ; work in flouf^ to make as stiff as 
white bread, and let them rise an hour or two 
before they are fried. 

ANOTHER. 

Four eggs, two heaping tea-cups of sugar, 
two of milk, eight table-spoonfuls of melted 
butter, two tea-spoonfuls of saleratus, one nut- 
meg. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One quarter of a pound of sugar, one quarter 
of a pound of butter, the same of lard, beat 
them well together, one pint of molasses, two 
table-spoonfuls of ginger, one tea-spoonful of 
soda dissolved in a wine-glass of milk, flour 
sufficient to roll them thin and bake quick. 

MOLASSES GINGER-BREAD. 

Two cups of molasses, one of milk or water, 
a table-spoon heaping full of butter, ginger to 
the taste, a tea-spoonful of soda not very much 
heaped but more than even full. For soft 
ginger-bread stir as stiff as you can with a 
spoon and put it in the pan; for hard, work 
in flour enough to roll. 

SUGAR GINGER-BREAD. 

To be made in the same way, with not quite 
as much soda, and a little more butter. 



PRESERVES. 73 

HARD GINGER-BREAD. 

Four pounds of flour, three of sugar, one and 
one half of butter, one fourth of a pound of 
ginger, ten eggs, one tea-spoonful of saleratus, 
seeds if you like. 

ANOTHER. 

One coffee cup of molasses, two or three 
table-spoonfuls of milk or water, according to 
the thickness of the molasses, two table-spoon- 
fuls of dissolved saleratus, two large table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one half spoonful of ginger 
and a little salt, flour enough to roll. Make in 
two cakes and bake about twenty minutes. 



PRESERVES. 



TO PRESERVE PLUMS 



Take the peel from nice ripe plums ; if they 
are very sweet, the same quantity of sugar is 
sufficient ; (some are so sour that they require a 
pound and a quarter of sugar to one pound of 
fruit,) put the plums and sugar together to make 
a syrup, let them stand all night, then turn all 
together into the kettle and cook them slowly 



74 RECEIPTS. 

until they are clear, taking the scum off as it 
rises ; turn them out and let them stand all 
night ; if the syrup seems thin, strain it from 
the plums, put it on to boil and put in sugar to 
make it thick. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

Peel and weigh your peaches ; add as many 
pounds of sifted white sugar as there are of the 
peaches, let them stand afll night, then pour off 
the syrup and put it on to boil ; skim it well 
and put in the peaches, cook them slowly until 
they are clear, then take them out and place 
them separately on a dish to drain. If the 
syrup seems nice and thick, turn it out to cool ; 
if not, add a little sugar and let it boil awhile; 
set it away until next day ; then put in small 
jars or tumblers and cover with brandy paper; 
a few peach leaves or pits boiled in the syrup 
improves the flavor. Free-stone peaches are 
better than cling-stone to preserve ; they can be 
cut in two, or preserved whole if the stones are 
white, but if they are red they will color the 
syrup and had better be taken out. 

TO PRESERVE CITRON MELON. 

Peel and cut the melon in slices ; boil some 
water with a few peach leaves and a little piece 



PRESERVES. 75 

of alum ; put in the melon and let it boil until 
it is soft; soak it an hour in cold water; make a 
syrup of as many pounds of sugar as there are 
of the melon and put in lemons according to the 
quantity you are preserving ; skim the syrup, 
put the melon in and let it boil twenty minutes. 
If the syrup seems thick when cold you can turn 
all out together ; if not let it boil more and add 
a little sugar. When cold, it is very much im- 
proved by a little preserved ginger root. 

TO PRESERVE QUINCES. 

Take the best of your quinces, peel and cut 
them in halves or quarters ; take out all the 
hard part and throw them into cold water ; then 
weigh two or three pounds at a time and put 
them into boiling water over a good fire, that 
they may boil quickly at first, then cook more 
slowly until they are quite soft ; take them out 
and place separately on a dish, weigh two or 
three pounds of sugar, the same quantity that 
you have of quince, and make a thick syrup, 
using equal parts of clear water and the water 
in which the quinces were boiled ; when the 
scum is taken off put them in and cook slowly 
until they are thoroughly penetrated with the 
sugar, then turn out all together. Take two or 
three pounds more of quince, making a new 



76 RECEIPTS. 

syrup, and go on in the same way till all are 
done. You will find it a better way than to 
keep boiling in the same syrup ; when cold put 
it in small jars and cover with brandy paper. 

MARMALADE. 

Take the poorest of the quinces, cut them in 
halves and take out just the core, then boil 
them soft, rub them through a sieve, and put 
three quarters as much sugar as there is quince, 
put them in a kettle and cook about twenty 
minutes, stirring it all the time; put it into 
bowls or moulds. 

PEACH MARMALADE, 

Can be made in the same way, either soft or 
hard. Peaches that will not do to preserve 
will answer for marmalade. 

TO PRESERVE CHERRIES. 

To one pound of cherries, add one and a 
quarter pounds of sugar, wet the sugar with 
the juice of currants and boil it until the sugar 
is dissolved; then put the cherries in, and when 
they become so clear that you can see the 
stones, they are done. 



PRESERVES. 77 

ANOTHER. 

The stones can be taken out and a little more 
sugar than there is of the cherries put to them ; 
let it stand all night to make a syrup, then turn 
the syrup into the kettle, and when it boils put 
in the cherries and cook them until quite soft ; 
if the syrup seems thin add a little more sugar. 

TO PRESERVE STAWBERRIES. 

Pick and wash the strawberries, then put 
them on a sieve or colander to drain, when 
quite dry add as many pounds of sifted sugar as 
there is of strawberries. Let them stand all night, 
then put altogether in a kettle and boil very 
slow and take the scum off as it rises. When 
they are done, dip them hot into small jars or 
tumblers, and next day cover with brandy 
paper ; if you have a larger quantity than you 
can cook at one time, put them in separate 
dishes to make the syrup, as you might not get 
the right proportion of sugar if you divide it 
after the sugar and fruit are put together. 

CURRANTS PRESERVED, 

In the same way, adding a little more sugar. 

TO PRESERVE PINE APPLES. 

One pound of sugar to one pound of pine 
apple, cut them in slices, strew the sugar be- 

G2 



78 RECEIPTS. 

tween them, and let them stand all night ; then 
boil the syrup, put in the fruit and boil it about 
three minutes, take them out and lay them on 
a dish ; boil the syrup again and pour on hot, 
let it stand till the next day, then boil the 
syrup, put in the fruit and boil three minutes 
as before ; boil the syrup and pour it on hot and 
continue to do so every day until it is trans- 
parent. Put up in small quantities and keep 
entirely from the air. 

BEAN DY PEACHES. 

One half a pound of sugar to one pound of 
peaches; peel the peaches and put them in cold 
water, put them over the fire until they are 
tender enough to pierce with a straw ; then put 
them in cold water for a few minutes, take them 
out separately to drain ; make a syrup, when it 
is boiled put in the peaches, boil ten minutes, 
again take them out and boil the syrup. Put 
the brandy on the peaches, an equal quantity of 
brandy and syrup. 

TO PRESERYE GRAPES. 

After they are picked from the stems, slip 
them from the skins, put the pulp in a kettle 
with very little water, and boil until they will 
strain through a sieve; when strained, take as 



PRESERVES. 79 

many pounds of sugar as there is of the grape, 
put the pulp and sugar in the kettle, and when 
it boils add the skins and boil them until they 
are quite tender. Cover with brandy paper. 

GREEN GRAPES. 

Take out the seeds and cook them in a syrup 
with a little more sugar than grape. In this 
way they are very nice. 

GRAPE JAM. 

Boil either green or ripe grapes until you can 
strain them through a sieve; when strained, put 
as much sugar as grape and cook until it will 
harden. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To three pounds of raspberries mashed, put 
one pint of red currant juice, add as much 
sugar as there is of the juice and raspberries, 
then boil half an hour, perhaps a little more. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Pick and wash nice ripe blackberries and 
mash them, put three quarters as much sugar 
as fruit and cook them half an hour. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Peel and cut your quinces in small pieces 
put them m a kettle with just water enough to 



80 RECEIPTS. 

cover them, boil them well, strain off the liquor 
and add as much sugar as juice and boil until 
it will jelly. If you peel and wash your quinces 
that you are going to use for marmalade, the wa- 
ter in which they are boiled will do for jelly, but 
the peel hurts the flavor. You can boil a few 
at a time, two or three times in the same water 
and the jelly will be the better for it. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick and wash your currants, then put them 
in a kettle with very little water, cook with a 
moderate heat until the juice is extracted, then 
turn them on a sieve and press gently with a 
wooden spoon, weigh the juice, return it to the 
kettle and siet it on the fire, when it boils take 
off the scum, then put as many pounds of sugar 
as juice, skim it as quick as you can ; the less it 
boils the better ; strain again through the sieve 
and dip into small jars or tumblers immediately. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Is made in the same way, but requires more 
boiling ; one half or three quarters of an hour 
is generally sufficient. 

PINE APPLE JAM. 

Peel and grate your pine apple, then add an 
equal quantity of sugar and cook half an hour ; 



PICKLES, &;c. 81 

if the fruit is very sour, put in more sugar ; if 
you pare them whole they will be better to 
grate. Dip hot in small jars or bowls and 
cover tight. 

TO STEW RHUBAEB. 

Peel and cut your rhubarb in short pieces ; 
put it on the fire with cold water to cover it ; 
let it stand until it is boiling hot, then turn off 
the water and add sugar to the taste ; let it cook 
very gradually and it will remain whole ; it is 
better for cooking a good while, if you can 
prevent it from coming to pieces. 



PICKLES, &c. 



TO MAKE MANGOES. 



Take the melons when they are about as big 
as a tea-cup, cut a piece out of the side and 
scrape out the pulp, then take a needle and 
fasten each piece to the melon. Make a pickle 
of salt and water that will bear an egg and 
pour it on them when it is a little cool. You 
may let them remain in it several weeks if you 
are not ready to fill them. Scald the pickle 



82 RECEIPTS. 

once a week or as often as it requires ; soak 
them two or three days in warm water, chang- 
ing it often, then wipe them dry. Take half a 
pint of mustard seed, sift and wash it well, 
drain it and scrape about half a pint of horse- 
radish very fine, mix them together, add cloves, 
(a few of them put in whole,) race ginger cut fine, 
a little mace or nutmeg, and the inside of six 
or eight small white onions cut thin and round. 
Fill your melons and sew them up. If you 
have more stuffing than you can put in the 
melons, take large cucumbers, cut and scrape 
them like the melons. Boil the vinegar, put in 
a piece of alum, take off all the scum, pour it 
over boiling hot, and cover them up close. 
They may be put with your spiced pickles if 
you choose. 

OYSTERS. 

Take one hundred large oysters in their own 
liquor and put them over a moderate fire with 
a tea-cup full of vinegar and half as much salt ; 
stir them and just let them boil up, take off the 
scum and add a table-spoonful of whole black 
pepper and half that quantity of cloves and 
mace ; let them boil till the oysters are done ; 
then put them in a jar and cover them close till 



PICKLES. gg 

they are cold, when they may be tied over tight 
tor keeping. ^ 

ONIONS. 

Take small white onions, peel them and 
cover them with salt; scald them in milk and 
water; take them out and cool them; make a 
pickle of white vinegar, put in a small quantity 
ot mace, nutmeg, race ginger and salt; boil 
them up together, skim it well and let it stand 
until It IS cool, then put in the onions and 
coyer them close; let the bag of spice remain 
with them. 

TO PICKLE EED CABBAGE. 

Cut off the stalks and outside leaves and cut 
into thm slices ; make a pickle of vinegar, 
cloves and ginger ; when it is cold, pour it ovei' 
the cabbage and it will be fit for use in twelve 
hours. White cabbage may be done in the 
same manner, but the vinegar must be poured 
on scalding hot two or three times. Scald beets 
in the vinegar to color it. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Slice a gallon of green tomatoes and salt 
them over night ; mix together a table-spoonful 
of ground black pepper, one of mace, one of 



84 RECEIPTS. 

cloves, four pods of peppers chopped fine, and 
half a pint of grated horse radish. Take a 
stone jar, put in a layer of seasoning, then one 
of tomatoes, then seasoning, then tomatoes, and 
so on until the jar is full, then fill up with cold 
cider vinegar, adding at the last a spoonful of 
sweet oil. 

TOMATO CATCHUP. 

Take a peck of ripe ' tomatoes, wash them 
and add a handful of salt, let them stand all 
night, then put them in a stewpan and boil 
gently for two hours ; then rub them through a 
sieve, season with salt, Cayenne pepper and 
cloves to the taste, add a pint of the best wine 
vinegar, boil two hours more, then put in bot- 
tles, rinsing them out first with brandy ; cork 
tight and keep in a cool place. Catchup is 
very nice to put in gravy, particularly for beef- 
steak, and some like it in soup. 

CURRANT WINE. 

The same measure of currant juice, sugar 
and water. 

TO PICKLE PEPPERS. 

Take large squash peppers green, cut ofi" the 
end and take out the seeds, then soak them six 
or eight days in water with a little salt, chang- 



PICKLES. 85 

ing it every day, then chop cabbage and onions 
together and season with mustard, cloves and 
allspice to the taste ; fill your peppers and fast- 
en on the piece you cut off, then boil some good 
cider vinegar with a little piece of alum and 
pour it over boiling hot. Red cabbage is best 
if you can get it. 

TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS. 

Lay them in salt and water nine days, then 
take them out and green them in cabbage leaves 
over the fire, then throw them in cold water ; 
let them remain three days, changing the water 
frequently, take them out, scald and skim your 
vinegar and pour on them while hot, and so 
continue to boil it up nine or ten times until 
they are green and transparent, then take new 
vinegar which is strong, boil it up with two 
lemons, race ginger, and cloves put in a bag, 
skim it and pour it over the cucumbers. 

ANOTHER. 

One gallon of rum to two of water, pick and 
wash the cucumbers and put them in. Nothing 
more is necessary to obtain good pickles. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Take ripe peaches, rub them with a dry cloth, 
put a pound of brown sugar to one quart of 



86 RECEIPTS. 

vinegar, put the peaches in a jar, boil the vine- 
gar and sugar together and pour over them; 
repeat this three or four times. Some cloves 
boiled in the vinegar improves them for some 
persons. 

PLUMS, 

Can be done in the same way ; also tomatoes 
picked before they are too ripe. 

PICKLED QUINCES. 

Boil the quinces whole until they are soft, 
then boil one quart of vinegar with one pound 
of brown sugar, and a tea-spoonful of cloves ; 
pour it to the quinces hot. 

RASPBERIIY VINEGAR. 

One quart of vinegar poured over one quart 
of raspberries; strain and pour them to a quart 
of fresh raspberries each morning for a week, 
at the end of which, put to a pint of the juice 
one pound of sugar and boil fifteen minutes ; 
skim it and when cold, bottle and cork tight. 

BLACKBERRY VINEGAR. 

To a peck of blackberries, one quart of vine- 
gar poured over them and let them stand two 
days, then strain off the juice ; to a pint of 
which add a pound of sugar; let the juice 



PICKLES. 87 

come to a boil, skim it and add the sugar, stir- 
ring it over the fire till it is dissolved, let it stand 
till cold, stirring occasionally, then bottle and 
cork tight ; keep it in a cool place. 

STRAWBERIIY SYRUP. 

Take a pound of white sugar to a pint of 
juice, boil it for ten minutes, strain it and then 
bottle it for use. Raspberries and pine-apples 
do in the same way. Use it for flavoring. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

To a peck of the berries put one quart of 
water, in which they should simmer till they 
are soft enough to extract the juice, then strain 
them through a sieve ; to one quart of juice 
add one and three quarter pounds of sugar, let 
the juice come to a boil, and after skimming 
add the sugar ; stir it over the fire till melted, 
then stir occasionally till cool, when cold, add a 
wine-glass of brandy to a pint of syrup ; bottle 
and cork tight. 

TO PRESERVE A BUSHEL OF TOMATOES. 

Peel the tomatoes, taking only the soft pulp 
without the hearts or any of the tough or 
stringy substance. As they are peeled throw 
into a sieve or colander placed over a pail and 
let all the water drain from them ; then put 



88 RECEIPTS. 

them into a porcelain lined kettle with one tea- 
cup full of pepper corns, one half a cup full 
of whole allspice and cloves mixed, tied up in 
a cloth, add salt and cayenne pepper to your 
taste. Stir the tomatoes constantly until they 
boil, let them boil gently for three hours, 
stirring them occasionally, when cooked, put 
them in some vessel to cool ; they will thicken 
as they cool ; beat them smooth when cold with 
a silver spoon, and put them into bottles with a 
pinch of cayenne pepper on the top of each ; 
cork and seal them well. When to be used 
empty the contents of the bottle into a sauce- 
pan with a rolled biscuit, a piece of butter and 
a gill of boiling water, and let all boil up 
together. Use small bottles because when 
opened it must all be used. 

COLE-SLAW. 

One or two yolks of eggs well beaten, two 
table-spoonfuls of vinegar, quarter of a pound 
of butter, and a little salt put altogether into a 
sauce-pan and stirred over the fire until the but- 
ter is melted to prevent its oiling ; have the 
cabbage cut very fine, and pour this mixture 
over it while warm, but not boiling ; add some 
black pepper and let it stand until perfectly 



PICKLES. 89 

cold. Cole-slaw can also be prepared by dress- 
ing the cabbage as a salad. 

SALAD DEESSING. 

One part mustard, four olive oil, two vinegar, 
one salt ; the yolk of a hard boiled egg improves 
it ; many add a little mashed potato and cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

The yolks of two hard boiled eggs sifted, the 
yolk of one raw egg, add one tea-spoonful of 
mustard from the bottle, two gills of sweet oil 
gradually, two or three squeezes of a lemon, or 
a table-spoonful of vinegar, half a tea-spoonful 
of salt, half a wine-glass of white wine ; mix 
well together and stand it on ice till wanted. 

BEEF PICKLE. 

Rub the beef well with fine salt before it is 
packed, let it lie twenty-four hours to cleanse 
it from the blood. For one barrel, eight gal- 
lons of water, nine pounds of salt, four pounds 
of sugar, four ounces of saltpetre, three pints 
of clean wood ashes boiled and well skimmed. 



H3 



90 RECEIPTS. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Cook and mash ten peeled potatoes, pour on 
a quart of boiling water and stir well, add a 
coffee-cup of sugar, let this stand a few minutes, 
pour in a quart of cold water, wanting a gill, 
and when luke-warm stir in a pint of yeast and 
set it in a moderately warm place to rise ; when 
well fermented, put it into a stone jug, cork 
tightly and keep it in a cool place. After the 
first rising keep enough of this yeast for the 
second batch. 

HOP YEAST. 

Take a tea-cup half full of hops, tie them in 
a cloth, peel four or ^Ye potatoes and put in a 
kettle with a quart of water, sift some flour and 
wet with cold water as you would to make 
starch ; when the potatoes are done, turn the 
boiling liquor to the flour, stirring all the time, 
mash the potatoes and put them in, when cool 
put in a t€a-cup half full of yeast and set it in 
a warm place to rise, when very light, strain it 
through a wire sieve and put it in a jug and 
cork tight. It should be made as often as once 
a week. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 91 

TURNPIKE EMPTYINGS. 

Boil a handfy.1 of hops in a quart of water 
fifteen minutes, then strain it through a sieve 
and thicken with flour ; when nearly cold, put 
in a tea-cup full of good yeast and let it stand 
until it ferments, then work in fine white Indian 
meal until it is stifi" enough to make up in little 
cakes ; the thinner you can make them the bet- 
ter, as they will turn sour if they are too long 
drying; set them near the fire, or in a cool 
oven. Let them get perfectly dry and they will 
keep a long time in a dry place. 

TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Pour boiling water to the almonds and try 
them very soon to see if the skins will slip off 
easily ; as soon as they will, drain them in a 
colander, skin them as soon as you can before 
they get dry ; when done put them again into 
the colander and pour cold water over them, 
then turn them on a shoal dish and set them 
near the fire to dry ; be careful they do not get 
too warm. It is best to prepare the almonds 
the day before you want to use them. Never 
add any liquid in the mortar while pounding, 
(as is generally recommended) to keep them 
from oiling. Macaroons are better made with 
almonds perfectly dry. 



92 RECEIPTS. 

TO CLEAN CURRANTS. 

Have small holes made in » large tin pan, 
they should be coarser than a wire sieve but not 
large enough to let the currants through, then 
rub your currants well with fine Indian meal 
until the stems are all off, then sift out all you 
can, pick them clean and give them a good 
washing, pour water over them after they are 
in the pan, then set them in the sun or near the 
fire to dry. 

RAISINS, 

Should never be chopped, they mix in with 
the cake and make it taste sour. Scissors are 
nice to seed them with ; some prefer to take the 
seeds out with a pen-knife and cut them up 
with scissors. 

RULES FOR MAKING CAKE. 

Wash your butter with a wooden spoon and 
beat it to a cream, then add the sugar and spice 
powdered and sifted, beat them very light. For 
fruit cake you can put in the eggs, one or two 
at a time, and beat them well with the sugar 
and butter ; it stiffens the cake better than to 
beat them separately, and the fruit is not as 
likely to settle to the bottom of the loaf; add 
the liquid gradually and keep beating, then put 



MISCELLANEOUS. 93 

in your fruit and last of all sift in part of your 
flour at a time stirring it as little as possible ; 
no saleratus. I could never decide whether a 
loaf of cake was done by trying it with a straw, 
but if you press your finger near the centre and 
it makes a hissing noise it is a very sure indica- 
tion that it requires more baking ; I have seldom 
known it to fail. Light cakes can be made in 
the same way with the exception of breaking 
the eggs in separate dishes and beating the 
yolks with the butter and sugar, and the whites 
very light and add by degrees. In no case 
should it be beat after the flour is put in. If 
your pans are buttered and you use the thin 
white wrapping paper, it is not necessary to put 
any butter on the paper, which should be cut 
to fit the pan; if it turns up at the edge it will 
break the cake when you take it off. It is not 
necessary to put your hand in any cake but that 
made of raised dough, nor even then until the 
sugar, butter and eggs are beat together. A 
salad spoon is the best to beat with and it will 
last a long time. The salad fork you will find 
very nice to beat eggs or frosting. I think a 
wire better than a hair sieve to use about cook- 
ing; they are more durable and easier kept 
clean and it is not as much trouble to sift the 
flour through them; they should be washed 



94 RECEIPTS. 

with a brush and dried immediately. The tins 
or pans used for baking should be nearly per- 
pendicular, not 'quite, as the cake will not turn 
out as well if they are. A square loaf cuts to 
better advantage than a round. 

It is very essential in order to have good 
cake to make use of the best of materials ; the 
butter should be perfectly sweet, the eggs fresh, 
and all you use the very best, and prepared in 
the best manner. Cloves I consider unhealthy 
and have made very little use of them myself, 
but there are a variety of tastes ; I have en- 
deavored to please all, and I sincerely hope 
that my labor may not be in vain ; time will 
determine. 



If there is anything in the preceding pages 
that has been published before, I am not aware 
of it ; very many of them are Practical Receipts, 
some have been furnished by kind friends and 
highly recommended, and others copied from 
the best of written Receipt Books. I do not 
pretend to say that they are all practical, but I 
think so many of them are that I may safely call 
this a Practical Receipt Book. I am told, (and 
I question not the truth of the assertion.) that 



MISCELLANEOUS. 95 

there are some excellent receipts in the printed 
books, but I am confident that most of these, if 
not all, will prove very different from what have 
heretofore been published ; perhaps some better, 
others not as good. There are quite a number 
of old fashioned receipts, and I have often 
heard people regret that there was not more of 
that good cooking in the present day. I have 
not published anything but what I supposed 
would be useful. The delicate state of my 
health has prevented my doing as well as I 
might, had it been otherwise. 

May heaven's choicest blessings descend and 
rest on those who have assisted me in my feeble 
undertaking. 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Almonds, to Blanch, 91 

Apples, to Bake 29 

Apple Dumplings 30 

Apple Pudding 40 

Apple Fritters 55 

Apple Pot Pie 59 

Bean Soup 21 

Beans, to Bake 22 

Beef, Alamode 3 

Beef Olives 5 

Beef, Round of 4 

Beef Steak Pudding, 10 

Beef Soup 18 

Beef, to Pickle 89 

Beef, Salt, to Boil 23 

Blanc Mange 46 

Blanc Mange, Arrow-Boot . . 47 

Blanc Mange, Farina 47 

Blackberry Jam 79 

Blackberry Vinegar 86 

Blackberry Syrup 87 

Brandy Peaches 78 

Breakfast Cake 50 

Bread, Sponge, White 48 

Bread, Graham 49 

Bread, Graham Soda Biscuit 53 

Bread, Soda 49 

Bread, Short Biscuit 49 

Bread, French Roll 50" 

Bread, Brown 50 

Biscuit, Fayal 59 

Biscuit, Naples 67 

Bims 70 

Cake, Almond Sponge 62 

Cake, Black 60 

Cake, Bread 68 

Cake, Cream 47 

Cake, Citron 62 

Cake, Currant 63 

Cake, Corn Oyster 56 . 



PAGE 

Cake, Composition 66 

Cake, Cider 66 

Cake, Cup 66 

I Cake, Cocoa 67 

Cake, Cheese 40 

Cake, Drop 34, 58 

Cake, French Loaf 64, 65 

Cake, Flannel 53 

Cake, Frosting for 67 

Cake, Fruit 68, 69 

' Cake, Ginger 71 

I Cake, Gold and Silver 68 

Cake, Griddle 56 

Cake, Griddle Corn 5Q 

Cake, Kisses 67 

Cake, Lady 61 

Cake, Macaroon 67 

Cake, Pound 63 

Cake, Plum 64 

Cake, Poor Man's 65 

Cake, Queen's 62 

Cake, Raised Dough 66 

Cake, Rice 57 

Cake, Rich Loaf 64 

Cake, Raised 62, 63 

Cake, Sponge 61, 69 

Cake, Sampson 66 

Cake, Soda 69 

Cake, Sugar 69 

Cake, Windham 57 

Cake, Washington 61 

Cake, Whortleberry 65, 69 

Cream Tea Cakes 51 

Charlotte Russe 43, 44 

Calf s Head to dress like turtle 16 

Catchup Tomato 84 

Chickens, Fricassee 7 

Chickens, White Fricassee. . . 7 

Chickens to Curry 8 

Chicken Pie 8 

Chicken Salad 15 

Chicken Soup 19 



98 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Cookies, Sugar 70, 71 

Corn Oysters 56 

Corn Pudding 54 

Custard, Lemon 44 

Custard, Almond 45 

Custard, Cold 45 

Custard, Soft 45 

Custard, Arrow-Root 46 

Currant Wine 84 

Currants to Clean 92 

Cole-Slaw 88 

Chowder, Fish or Clam 20 

Dumplings, Apple 30 

Dumplings, Indian 25 

Dimiplings, Whortleberry •• • 30 
Doughnuts, Rye and Indian. 55 
Drop Cakes, Rye and Indian 55 

Drop Cakes 58 

Doughnuts 71 , 72 



Emptyings, Turnpike. 



91 



Fish, to Bake 13 

Fish, to Stew 13 

Fish, to Scollop 13 

Fish Chowder 20 

Fish, Cod 24 

Fish Balls 24 

Force Meat Balls 17 



German Toast 53 

Ginger Snaps 72 

Ginger Bread, Molasses 72 

Ginger Bread, Sugar 72 

Ginger Bread, Hard 73 

Green Grapes 79 

Grape Jam 79 

Ham, to Boil 11 

Ham, Cold, to Hash 12 

Hash Meat 12 

Hop Yeast 90 

Indian Dumplings 25 j 

Ice Cream 43 

Italian Cream 43 

Indian Griddle Cakes 52 

Indian Bannock 56 



PAGE 

Jam, Pine Apple 80 

Jelly, Wine 42 

Jelly, Blackberry 80 

Jelly, Currant 80 

Jelly, Quince 79 

Jumbles 70 

Jumbles, Soft 70 

Lobster, to Stew 13 

Lobster, to Bake 15 

Marmalade 76 

Marmalade, Peach 76 

Meat, Salt, to Boil 23 

Mutton Chops 6 

Mutton, to Roast like Venison 6 
M*utton Soup, see Yeal Soup — 

Muffins 52, 57 

Muffins, Soda 52 

Muffins, Rye 57 

Oyster Pie 9 

Oysters, to Stew 14 

Oysters, to Bake 14 

Oyster Soup 20 

Pies, Cream 41 

Pie Crust 37 

Pie, Mince 38 

Pie, Cracker Mince 39 

Pie, Lemon 41, 42 

Pie, Rice 36 

Pies, Turn Over 39 

Pies, Washington 39 

Pie, Delmonico 33 

Pig, to Barbacue 4 

Pork and Beans to Bake 22 

Pickled Mangoes 81 

Pickled Oysters 82 

Pickled Onions 83 

Pickled Red Cabbage 83 

Pickled Green Tomatoes 83 

Pickled Cucumbers 85 

Pickled Peppers 84 

Pickled Peaches 85 

Pickled Plums 86 

Pickled Quinces 86 

Preserve Plmns 73 

Preserve Peaches 74 



INDEX. 



99 



PAEG 

Preserve Citron Melon 74 

Preserve Quinces 75 

Preserve Cherries 76 

Preserve Strawberries 77 

Preserve, Tomato 87 

Preserve Currants • • • • 77 

Preserve Pine Apples 77 

Preserve Grapes 78 

Potato Yeast , 90 

Pudding, Apple 27, 40 

Pudding, Almond 26 

Pudding, Arrow-Root 31 

Pudding, Baked 33 

Pudding, Berry 34 

Pudding, Bird's Nest 32 

Pudding, Beef Steak 10 

Pudding, Boiled Hunter's... 25 

Pudding, Cocoanut 40 

Pudding, Com 54 

Pudding, Cracker 28 

Pudding, Custard 29 

Pudding, Custard without eggs 31 

Pudding, English Plum 27 

Pudding, E v-e's 31 

Pudding, Hasty 35 

Pudding, Indian or Rice 32 

Pudding, Ice 33 

Pudding, Indian 54 

Pudding, Little 50 

Pixdding, Minute 35 

Pudding, Lemon 41 

Pudding, Potato 41 

Pudding, Plain Flour 31 

Pudding, Porcupine 48 

Pudding, Pumpkin 41 

Pudding, Pot, White 35 

Pudding, Plum 26 

Pudding, Rice 28 

Pudding, Rice, without Eggs 35 

Pudding, Suet 26 

Piidding, Sponge 32 

Pudding, Tapioca 28 

Pudding, Troy 32 

Piidding, Washington 27 

Pudding, Yorkshire 25 

Pudding, Sauce for 36, 37 

Puff Paste 37 

Puddmg, without Eggs 31 

Quinces, to Bake 30 



PAGE 

Rice Cakes 57 

Rice Cups 29 

Rice Fritters 55 

Raspberry Jam 79 

Raspberry Vinegar 86 

Raisins 92 

Rhubarb, to Stew 81 

Rules for Making Cake 92 

Salad, Chicken 15 

Salad, Dressing 89 

Sally Lunn 51 

Scrapple 11 

Sausages, to make 11, 12 

Sausages, Veal 12 

Sauce for Puddings 36, 37 

Sauce, Wine 37 

Strawberry Syrup 87 

Stew Pies 9 

Sweet Bread 17 

Soup, Beef 18 

Soup, Bean 21 

Soup, Clam 19 

Soup, Corn 22 

Soup, Chicken 19 

Soup, French 17 

Soup, Oyster 20 

Soup, Pea 22 

Soup, Mutton, see Veal — 

Soup, Veal 18 

Terrapin 15 

Tea Cakes 58 

Tomato Catchup 84 

Tomato, to Preserve 87 

Veal Cutlets 5 

Veal, to Stuff a Fillet of 7 

Veal Soup 18 

Veal Sausages 12 

Wine Sauce 37 

Wine Jelly 42 

Waffles 52, 53 

Whortleberry Hollow, Baked 60 
Wine, Currant 84 

Yeast, Hop, 90 

Yeast, Potato 90 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 325 6 # 



