^ 




^ 



^ 



r cA-^> 



TUB 



i 



iS^^t^ 



i's riiEi^s 



A ^"EW AND VAT..U.VI5LE 

C 31 P E .\ D 1 1 M 



1^ 



v'MISCELLANEOUS&DOHESTiC 









MANY OF TVTIICIT ARE OF INCALCULABLE 
VALUE, AND WHICH ARK NOW PUB- 
LISHED FOR THE F1R£T TIME. 



Selected, Compiled and Carefully Revised by 



T^vnvE. ir_ txjti3:i2L.Xj- 



Entered according lo A- 1 of Consjress, in ;l-.e year 1859, by Wm, F. 'i CTHILL, , 
\ iu tlie Clerk's Otlite ol the Iti.-trin Court of the Lluitevl bla.es, .(_■ 

\ iu uiid lor lli.. Murilicrn Eistriut of lUiiiois. . ' 






t 

GALESBITRG, ILL: \ 

BEX FilAA'KLIN Pi{I>;TIN(i HOUSE. - 

ISoO. f 



..ir^_->^_.-v--. 



\ 






7*^ ^ 



m^ }**^. irh It. 



T 13: E 



FEOPLE^i FBIEI^D 

A NEW AXD VALUABLE 

€ M P E X D 1 1 ai 

or 

JIISCELLANEOUS& DOMESTIC 

MANY OP WHICH ARE OF INCALCULABLE 
VALUE, AND WHICH ARE NOW PUB- 
LISHED FOR THE FIRST TIME. 

E'elcctcd, Compiled aud Carefully Revised by 



Copyrigh-t Seou.i'ecl accor*d.ing to DLaw*,^,^ 

■ -^--^-^ ^ .-.; OF cc}a;^ 

GALESBURG, ILL. : /^'^GOPYRIGHr^ 

BEX FKANKLIN PRINTING IlduSE., ,^ 
1859. 



•siV/AfGTr- 



\v:. 



x^^ 



TABLE OF WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



To remedy a difficulty that has heretofore 
existed in works ofthis character, the quantity 
of ingredients used being generally given in 
weight, we subjoin the following valnaLle 
Table of Weight and Measure. It is neces- 
sary to observe, however, that due allow- 
ance must be made for quality, dryness, 
moisture, etc., of the articles used. 

WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 

Wheat Flour 1 lb is a quart, 

Indian Meal 1 lb, 2 oz " " " 

But.ter,soft 1 lb, 1 oz...." " " 

Loaf Sugar, broken . 1 lb, 1 oz " " " 

White Sugar, ])\led 1 lb', 1 oz " " " 

Best Brown Sugar 1 lb, 2 oz. . . ." " " 

Ten Eggs are one pound. 

An ounce of cinnamon, ginger, pepper, 
spice, or cloves, two large table-spoonfuls. 



LIQUID MEASURE. 

S lai-ge tablespoonfuls, arc half a pint 
8 large tablespoonfuls, are 1 gill. 
4 large tablespoonfuls, are ^ gill. 
A connnon size tumbler, holds half aphit. 
A common size wine glass holds a gill. 
A common size teacup, holds half a pint. 
An ounce of butter or lard, melted; a large 
tableepoonful. 



RECEIPTS. 



SPIRIT SOAP. 

r©r romoving paint, greaso, etc., from Woolen Goods. 
Take 95 per cent. Alcohol,. . . .2 quarts. 

" Aq. Ammonia, 1 quart. 

*' 1 oz. of Sala3ratu3 dis. in 1 qt. Soft 
water. 

" Cologne Water, 4 oz. 

Fit for use, immediately. Apply with 
gpongo, and rinse with water. 



A VALUABLE RECEIPT 
For Cleansing and Rsstoking Coloe to 
Soiled or Faded Coats, Vests, Pants and 
Woollen Goods of every description. 
THIS REOEIPT HAS BEEN SOLD FOR $50.00. 
Place the article to be cleansed on a table 
and carefully brush all dust and dirt from 
it ; then with a sponge apply the Spirit 
Soap which will completely remove all spots 
of paint, grease, tar, etc. Then with a 
sponge wet the garment thoroughly with 



4 TUTHILLS 

boiling soft water into which some yellow 
bar soap has been dissolved. Then apply, 
inniiediately, the following preparation to 
restore the color : 

For dark colors, take ^ pint Logwood 
chips, put into one pailful soft water and 
heat on fire until the strength or color is out 
of the chips. x\dd, to set the color, a piece 
of blue Vitriol size of a small walnut, and 
the same amount of Copcras, also | ounce 
Gum Arabic. -Apply boiling hot with a 
brush, and hang up in the shade to dry — 
occasionally brushing it, always with the 
napp, until dry. For drab or light colors 
omit the lo2:wood. 



TO SUGAR CURE BEEF. 
To every 100 lbs beef, 10 lbs salt, 4 lbs 
brown sugar (moistened with water) or 3 
pints molasses, mix the above ingredients 
together and rub the pieces beef, and pack 
it down in a barrel, let it stand 2 or 3 days 
then make a brine and pour on your meat 



JET BLACK WRITING INK. 

To 1 gallon boiling soft water, add 1^ 
oz. of ex. Logwood, stir till dissolved ; then 
one tentli oz. Bicarbonate of Potash, and one 
tenth oz. Prussiate Potat;h. Stir till cool. 



nECEIPT BOOK. 5 

INDELIBLE INI\. 

Take CO grs. Lunar Caustic, (Nitrate of 
Silver,) mix with one oz. Soft Water. Pour 
^ gill boiliuo; water upon one drachm pow- 
dered Nut CtiU, and add 18 drops of the 
liquid to the Nitrate of Silver. 

For preparation to apply to the cloth be- 
fore marking with the above, take ^ gill of 
water and dissolve as much sahi?ratus as it 
will hold in solution, and add 5 grains of 
Gum Arabic. x\fter marking, the fabric 
should be cx[)Osed to the sun. 



PIICENIX LINIMENT. 

Take one pound of fresh butter and heat 
and skim until all impurities are removed. 
Then cool a little aiul add 2 ozs. Oil of 
Origanum and one spoonful of Spirits of 
Turpentine, well mixed. 



WHITEWASH FOR FENCES AND 
OUT HOUSES. 

Unslaked lime, one bushel; salt one peck 
3 lbs. ground rice, powdered whiting 2 lbs 
glue (dissolved) 1 lb. Slake the lime in boil- 
ing water in a cohered vessel strain through 
a wire seive, add the salt dissolved in hot 
water, add,. Avhilc hot, the rice boiled to a 
thin paste, then the glue and whiting, let 
stand several days, put it on hot. 



TUTHILL S 



WASHING & BLEACHING LIQUID. 

Take ^ tb. unslaked lime, and pour u])- 
on it 6 qts. boiling water, stir it all up, and 
"wdien it has stood long enough to entirely 
settle, strain off the clear water and dissolve 
in this water, by boiling 2 fcs. sal soda. 

For washing — to every pail full of water 
add while boiling, ^ pint of the hquid. The 
clothes must be put in soak the night before 
washing, taking care to rub all the dirt spots 
with soap; then boil them with tlie liquid 3o 
minutes. They are then to be drawn and 
put into a tub, and clear boiling water 
poured on them; then rub them out rinse 
them well and they are fit for drying. 

TO KEEP POKK SWEET AS WHEN 
FIRST SALTED. 

Afler your meat is entirely cold pack it 
down in a cask or barrel with plenty coarse 
salt, then make a strong brine and pour it on 
the meat boiling hot; be sure and have your 
meat covered with biine. 



WHITEWASH THAT WILL NOT 
RUB OFF. 

Mix up half a pailful ol lime take a half 
pint of flour and make it into starch, pourin- 
10 the whitewash while hot stir it well and 
it is readv for use. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 7 

ITALIAN SOAP. 

For rcmnvinc; Grease and Stains from Fancy Cch red 
SILKS, etc withoiit injury to the fabric. 

T.-ike ofVBeef's Gall I lb 

^' Castile Soap, 1 lb 

" Starch, one spoonful. 
'' Camomile lio'.vers, one liandtul. 
Melt Gall and Soap together, and add 
jnice of Camomile tlov/ers after steepinp-, 
also add Starch, while liot, and it will be lit 
for use as soon as cold. 

For Woollen Goods add 2 oz. Spirits ot' 
Turpentine, and 1 oz. Cream Tartar, to the 
al)0ve. 

GOOD sa:maritan linbient. 

Take Lobelia Herb 2 ozs. 

'* Annie a Flowers, 2 ozh. 

" Capicum, 2 ozs. 

'' Alcohol 4th. proof, 3 quarts. 

Alaccirate the above 14 days, and strain. 

LIFE LINIMENT. 
Take Lard, 1 lb. 

'* Flowers of Benzoin, 2 draelims. 

*' Oil Bero-amot, 1 " 

" Oil Sassafras, 1 

" l>eeswax, 4 ozs. 

** Resin, 1 oz. 

*• Sugrar Lead, .} oz. 

" Oil Aaiise, 1 drachm. 



8 tu'JIiii.l's 

TO DESTROY COCKROACimS, RATS 
AXD MICE. 

Take a sixpenny loaf of bread, llie staler 
the better, reduce it to a crumb, then in a pot 
of water put t^vo spoonfuls cayenne pepper, 
one do. pulverised annise seed, half a draclmi 
of saltpetre, the same of white lead, and a 
wine ghiss of extract of hops. Now throw 
in your crumbs of bread ; digest for six 
hours in a moderate heat; strain throuGjh a 
cloth ; add to the liquor thirty drops of the 
tincture of quassia, and let it stand until 
next day, and tlien bottle it. Some lumps 
of sugar saturated with this liquor will be a 
speedy cure for cockroaches. Some pieces 
of bread saturated with it, wih destroy all 
the rats and mice. The above is extensively 
jnanufactured and sold at a great profit. 



PRESERVING EGGS FOR WINTER. 

Take new laid eg^s, have ready melted 
Lard and with a skimmer dip the Eggs in 
and pack them in a box or keg with small 
ends downward and set them in a cool place. 
The Lard stops the pores of the shell and 
tims excludes the air; by resting on the small 
end the velk is prevented from reach in iitht,^ 
slieH. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 



Domestic Receipts. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Two lbs butter, two of sugar, two of flour, 
two doz eggs, three lb8 currants six lbs raisins, 
If lb citr-on, ^ oz nutmeg, 1 table spoonful 
ginger, J pint brandy, a little saleratus. 



BLACK PLUM CAKE. 

Take 1 lb Flour, 1 lb Sugar, 1 lb Butter, 
^ Eggs, one glass of Wine, one glass of 
Brandy, 6 lbs fruit, including citron and 
spices. Brown the flour. 



FANCY CAKE. 

4 cups flour, 3 of sugai*, 1 of milk, 1 of 
butter, 5 eggs, 2 teaspoons pearlash, fruit 
to your taste. 



CREAM CAKE. 

5 eggs, 3 cups sugar 1 cup of butter, 4 of 
flour, 1 cup of cream, 1 tea-spc on saleratus. 

COMMON TEA CAKES. 

^ pint now milk, ^Ib sugar, J lb button 



10 tutiiill's 

GOOD SPOXGE CAKE. 

Boat together the yelks ot ten eprgs with 1 
lb of wliite Hugar, beat to a stitF froth tlie 
eggs and stir them into the yelks and the su- 
gar, beat the whole ten or fifteen minutes, stir 
|- of a lb sifted flour, flavor with a nutmeg or 
the rind of a lemon; bake as soon as well 
mixed. 



CAROLINA CAKE. 

1 ooffoG cup of sugar, ^ cup cream, 1 of 
flour, whites of 4 eggs, 1 table-spoon of bat- 
ter, and part of a nutmeg. 



115 A CAKES. 

1 cup of butter, 2 of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon of saleratus dissolved in a tea-cup of 
sour milk or ci earn, flour suflicient to stiflen 
80 as to roll out well. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 1 of milk, 2^ of sugjar, 4 eerg;*, 
1 tea-spoon saleratus, flour to make it stilf as 
pomd cake, spice to your taste. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

6 eggs, 1-^ coffee cups molasses, 2 of sugar, 
1 pint sour milk, saleratus, 1 tea-cup of bnt- 
t-er, 2 lbs raisins, cloves and currants. 



RBCEIPT BOOK. 11 

CORN CAKE. 

The whites of 8 eggs ^ lb corn starch, 
flour, butter, 4 lb sugar, 1 teaspoon ereani- 
tartar, ^ of soda, flavor with almonds, or to 
iifuit the taste. 

POUND CAKE. 

Take 1 lb Flour, 1 lb Sugar, U oz. Butter, 
1 ft) Eg:Q:s ; Lemon and Nntmecr. 

ANOTHER. 

Take one^pound flour, one pound sugar, 
f ft) butter, (3 a^g^^ one cup sour cream, one 
tea spoon Sala3ratus. 

AXOTHER. 

Take one cup butter, two cups sugar, 
four esgs, and a very little sweet milk, and 
one lb. of flour. 



GiNGP:R CxVKS. 
1 cup Molasses, 1 cup sour milk, ^\'ith 1 
tea spoon full of poda in each, beat them 
well together, and add f cup of butter, 1 
table spoon ginger, and 3 cups flour. 



CIDER CAKE. 

Three cups flour, 2 cups sugar, H lb. but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 1 cup cider with a teaspoon 
pearlash dissolved in it ; the pearl ash and 
cider to bo added when ready to go into the 
oveii. 



12 TUTHILL S 

PLUM PUDDING. 

12 Crackers, 3 half pints of Milk, 8 Egg«*, 
4 table spoonsful Flour, 1 ft Raisins, 1 lb 
Currants, f ft> Suet, 6 Apples, 1 Nutmeg, 
2 glasses Wine, 1 tea cup bro\^n Sugar, a 
piece of Butter size of a walnut, a few thin 
Hiices of Citron. 

Roll the Crackers fine and pour the railk 
over thcni boiling hot. After cooling beat 
the oggs in well with them, and add the 
other ingredients. 

Boil o iiours. Scald the cloth and flour it 
well. Half this quantity will make a good 
sized pudding. Put into boiling water. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Take 8 Eofc^s, beat them well, white and 
yelks separately ; put them in a pan, add ^ 
ft) finely powdered Sugar and half a nutmeg. 
Set it over a chafing dish of coals, and stir 
it for some time ; then set it away to cool. 

Put a thin puff paste around the edge of 
a dish, pour in the ingredients, bake it half 
an hour in a gentle oven, and serve it hot 
or cold. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

Two c\ips butter, two cups cream, 2^ cujjs 
sugar, whites of ten eggs, 3^ cups flour, a 
little salan-atus. 



RECEirT BOOK. 13 

LEMON PUDDING. 

1 lb Sugar, 10 Eggs, ^ !b Butter, grated 
rind of two Lemons, juice of one Lcmou, 
one glass of Wine, one glass of Kose water. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, then ad<l 
the e^^s after beating- the white aiul velks 
separately. It should be well beaten vvhen 
all together. 

Bake in a deep di.sli with puff paste under 
it. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Take 1 lb Potatoes, peel and boil them, 
^ ft) Butter, -| ft) Sugar, 1 coffee cuj) of Ci"eam 
I coffee cup of Wine, 1 Nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
of Mace, and 6 Eggs. 

Beat the potatoes vrell, by degrees put in 
a little butter until you mix it all ; then add 
the sugar, beat the eggs very light, then add 
all together with the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon. 

Make a puff paste on a plate and put the 
pudding on. Bake in a gentle oven. 



TROY HOUSE CORN CAKE. 

3 large cups Indian meal, -J of flour, 1 qt. 
sour milk, 1 eggs, -^ tea-spoon salt, ^ tea- 
spoon soda, beat well together, bake one 
quarter of an hour. 



] i TUTIULL S 

KIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pare the Cucumbers and cut them iii^> 
thin sUces. Then put them in a jar and 
cover them with Cider Vinegar, let them 
Btand 24 hours, then pour off the Vinegar 
and make a syrup ot it. 

To one gallon of Vinegar add 4 ibs. Su- 
gar, and S])ices to the taste. 

Boil the Syrup and cook the Cucumbers 
in it until tliey are a little tender. Then 
boil the Syrup down for half an hour, and 
pour it hot upon the Cucumbers. Fit for 
use when cold. 

For spices use to every gallon 

2 table spoonful Cloves. 

1 " " Allspice. 

1 '' " Mace. 

li 0Z3. Cinnamon. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

One quart Cider Vinegar, 4 lbs. Brown 
Sugar. Boil for a few minutes and skim off 
impurities. Rub off the down aiid stick 
three or four cloves into each peach. 

Place them in a jar and pour the liquor 
over them boiling hot. 

Cover and let them stand a week or ten 
days. Then pour off the liquor, and boil it 
as before. 

Return itboiliiif' hot and cover them. 



KECEIPT BOOK. 15 

GREEN TOMATO TICKLE. 

One bushel tomatoes 1 qt. green pep- 
pers, 1 qt. of grated horseraddisli, 1 cup of 
wliite mustard, ground ; 1^ grated lemons, 
8 onions. Chop fine the tomatoes and on- 
ions and put them in a vessel over night 
with a layer of salt and tomatoes. The next 
morning drain and scald them in vinegar till 
lender, drain, ])ack in jars, cover in vinegar. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Make a brine to bear up an egg, and ])Our 
it over your pickles boiling hot. Let 
them stand 24 hours; then take them out, 
wipe them with dry cloth and put them in 
cold vinegar. 

To every gallon vinegar add — • 

Cloves, a table spoon full. 

Allspice, 2 '' 

Mace, -i- '' 

Mustard,! *' 

One piece ginger root, a lump of Alum 
size of a walnut, two green peppers, and let 
the whole come to a scald, but not boil, 
and then put in jars. 

DELIA'S CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 of butter, 8 of flour, i eggt 
■^ cup of milk, ^ tea-spoon soda in the fiour, 
i of cream-tartar, milk flavor to taste. 



16 Tu thill's 

SUET PUDDING. 

2 quarts milk, I lb suet, boil the milk and 
J-tlr in tlie suet (ckopped fine) and 1 pint sif- 
ted Indian meal and a little salt, let it stand 
till cold, add 2 eggs, 1 table-spoon Hour 1 
tea-cup bro. sugar and sweeten to taste 
with molasses, and add 1 tablespoonful gin- 
ger, and 1 lb raisins, put in dish to bake and 
grate nutmeg over it. 

When about half baked and well brown- 
ed throw 2 or 3 spoonfuls of milk over it 
to make it wliey. 



gree:n" corn puddixg. 

Take of green corn twelve ears, grate it 
to this add one quart of sweet milk, ^ lb of 
fresh butter, 4 eggs Nvell beaten, pepper, and 
salt 10 taste, stir all together, and bake it 
liours in a buttered dish. 

Some add ^Ib sugar and eat the pudding 
with sauce, it is good cold or warm with 
meat or sauce. 



OHARLOTT De RUSE. 

H pints milk, 6 eggs to make soft custard, 
1 oz. ising-glass dissolved and mixed with 
the custard, let it cool, then whip a quart of 
cream and add it to the custard, put it in 
youi- dish lined with sponge cake and sit it 
in a cool place to form. 



RECEIPT COOK. 17 

LEMON PIE. 

Take oiio lemon and a half, cut them up 
fine, one cup of molasses, half cup of sugar, 
two eggs ; mix them together, prepare your 
plate, with a crust in the bottom ; put in 
half the materials, lay over a crust, then put 
in the rest of the materials, and cover the 
whole with another crust. 



MIXCE PIES. 

Take 4 lbs Meat, 6 lbs Apples, | ft Suet, 
2 fresh Lemoiis, a little Wine, a little Bran- 
dy, and Cider enough to make it sufficiently 
wet. Cloves, Cinnamon, Fruit and Sugar 
to your taste. 

Pack it down in a stone jar, cover it 
closely and it will keep good during the 
^^•inter, if kept in a cold place. 



CUSTxVKD PIE. 

Take one pint milk, half a pint of cream, 
three eggs, 3 table spoons sugar, and a lit- 
tle salt. 

DOUGH NUTS. 

Set a sponge with 1 pint of milk, and 
when light, add 4 boiled mashed potatoes, 
6 ozs. Sugar, and 6 ozs. Butter. 

Set to raise, and when light, roll out and 
fry. 

2 



CORN OYSTERS. 

Take 3 dozen cars ol corn, 6 eggs, lard 
and butter in equal proportions, for frying 
take young corn and grate from cob as fine 
as possible and drege it with wheat flour. 
Beat very light the eggs and mix gradually 
with the corn, then beat the whole hard, add 
salt ; put butter and lard over the fire heat 
hot, and then put in the mixture with spoon 
so as to form cool cakes three inches long 
and an inch thick fry brown and eat hot. 

BLACK PUDDING OR DELIA'S 
WASHINGTON PUDDING. 

S eggs, I cup butter, 1 of sugar, 1 of milk 
1 of flour, 1 tea-spoon soda, to be baked. 

DELIA'S PLUM PUDDING. 

^- lb suet, 1 of bread, 1 large cup molasses, 
^ lb raisins, -J of currants, a spoonful of flour, 
boil 3 hours. 



LEMON PIE. 

Take one lemon, one cofiee cup sugar, one 
coffee cup water, three small crackers, and 



DUTCH WOFFLES. 

8 eggs, 1 quart milk, f lb butter, add 
yeast sufficient to raise them. 



r.ECEIPT BOOK. 19 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Three teacups molasses, 1 cup of butter, 
4 eggs, -| cup sour cream, or milk, nearly a 
teaspoon of pearlash dissolved in a little 
warm water. Flour enou.Q;h to make it as 
stiff as pound cake. 



'iD 



GINGER NUTS. 
Rub I ft) butter in 3 ft)S flour, 1 ft) sugar, 
2 oz. ginger, a large nutmeg, grated, 4- pint 
molasses, a gill cream, 1 teaspoon full pearl- 
ash. Mako them all warm together — roll 
them. 

GINGER NUTS. 
One pound butter, 1 ft) sugar, 2 cups mo- 
lasses, 1 oz. ginger. Flour sufficient to roll 
them. 



SPONGE GINGER CAKE. 

1 pint of molasses, -J of sweet milk, 2 of 
flour, 1 table-spoon vinegar, 1 of soda, 1 
of ginger, 2 of butter. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Take 1 ft) Butter, 1 ft) Sugar, 10 Eggs, 
the rind of a sweet Orange, the juice of 
half a Lemon, and a glass of Wine and 
Rosewater. 



20 TUTHILL S 

QUEEN'S CAKE 

One pound flour, 1 ib suprar, |- ft) butter, 
5 eggs, 1.^ oz. nutmeg, 1 gill brandy, 1 gill 
wine, 1 gill cream, 1 ib raisins. 

Put the brandy, wine, cream and nutmeg 
together, let them simmer and mix well, then 
add them to the butter and sugar, after 
beating them together, tlien add the egg?', 
well beaten, then the flour. It should be 
]nit in the oven immediately after the flour 
is put in. 



OLICOOKS. 
Six eggs, 1 quart milk, f ft) sugar, f lb 
butter, beat them together with as mucli 
flour as you can stiu mto them, add yeast 
enough to raise them; when light, put them 
in a cold place. Before frying, add cinna- 
mon or nutmeg to your taste. 



DOUGH NUTS. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups of 
milk, yeast sufticient to raise them. 



SODA FRIED CAKES. 

1 qt. Flour, One Egg. 

Three table spoonfuls Sugar, -V pt. sv%'eet 
milk, 3 teaspoons Cream Tartar in the milk, 
I spoon soda in the flour, 2 table spoons but- 
ter. Spice to taste. 



PvECEIPT BOOK. 2i 

COCOA-NUT JUMBLES. 

Grate a large cocoa-nut, rnb a half pound 
of butter into one pound of sifted flour, and 
wet it with three beaten egg^ and a little 
rosewater ; add by degrees the cocoa-nut 
so as to form a stiff paste or dough. Flo nr 
your hands and paste board ; divide your 
dougli into equal portions. Make the jum- 
biers into rings ; grate loaf sngar over them, 
put into buttered pans, (not so near as to 
run into each other,) and bake in a quick 
oven from 5 to 10 minutes. 



GINGER NUTS. 
One and a half cup of butter one of sugar 
two cups of molasses table spoonful! of gin- 
ger cloves cinnamon &c. and as much flour 
as can easily be worked in, roll this and cut 
them small and round. 



TO CURE CORNS. 

A writer in one of the agricultural paper? 
declares on his own experience, that to pare 
corns and then apply a drop ortvro of worm- 
wood oil, is a certain cure. 



JUMBLES. 

li pounds flour, 1 of sugar, -i- of butter, 3 
eggs, and nutmeg 



'g» 



22 Tuthill's 

SAUSAGES. 

To 10 lbs of meat chopped fine, add 4 oz. 
salt, 1 oz. pepper and 1 oz. of sage, moisten 
the above with a little warm water, and 
make into ball or as you like. 



DROP CAKE. 

1 gallon molasses, 2 lbs lard, 2 ozs. ginger, 
'} lb saleratus, Hour, enough to make it stiff 
enou2:h to work. 



GINGER CORDIAL. 

Four pounds Red Currants, (or White,) 
8 ozs. Jamaica Ginger Root, bruised, 

2 " Bitter Almonds, " 
1 " Sweet " " 

3 Lemons, 

1 gallon Bourbon Whisky. 

Let the spirits remain on the ingredients 
10 days, then strain it off, and add six 
poimds loaf sugar, and bottle. 



ANTI SPASMODIC TINCTURE. 

Cayenne pepper half an ounce, blood root 
1 oz; epicac 2 oz, add these to one qt. alcohol 
and pint of water; let stand one \veek; a dose 
one tablespoonfull mixed with water. It is 
useful in inilamation of the lungs, pleurisy, 
whooping cough, consumption and difficult 
expectoration. 



EECEIPT BOOK. 23 

Dl^OP BISCUIT. 

Take three cups sweet milk and 6 cups 
flour, into which rub 4 tea spoonfuls cream 
tartar 1^ Sup. Carb. Soda, and pass the 
flour through a seive — mix with the batter ; 
add butter size of an egg, melted, and a lit- 
tle salt. Drop on tins to bake. 

GIXGER-BREAD. 

1 cup molasses; 1 of each, sugar, butter, 
and sour milk, tea-spoon of each ginger, 
and cinnamon, ^ tea-spoon cloves, as much 
flour as can be stired in and make it very 
stifl*. 



PORTUGAL CAKE. 

One ft), flour, f lb. sugar, ^ ib. of butter, 
eight eggs, one nutmeg, two spoonfuls lemon 
juice, 1 !b. rasins. 

SALLY'S JUMBLES. 

Two coffee cups of Sugar, 
One " " Butter, 
" table spoon full Sour Milk, 
a very little soda, 4 eggs, and a little seed. 



CRULLERS. 

1 cup sour milk, saleratus, ^ cup butter, 4 
^gs, nutmeg and cinnamon." 



2 4 tuthill's 

LEMOX CREAM. 

Boil the rinds of 4 lemons in a quart of 
cream, squeeze and strain the juice of one 
lemon, sweeten it, and when the cream is 
cold stir it in. 



QUIXCE JELLY. 

Out your quinces in slices without pairing 
them, boil them in water, to each pint of li- 
quid add 1 lb of sugar. 



APPLE JELLY. 

Boil a pail of sour apples with vrater 
enough to cover them, let them drain through 
fl seive and to every pint of juice add 1 lb of 
sugar, lemon to your taste. 

HARD WOFFLES. 

^ lb butter, 4- lb sugar, 3 eggs, 3 table- 
spoons milk, a little nutmeg, flour to make 
il stiff enough. 



LIQID OPEDELDOCK. 

Take one quart of brandy and warm, 
then add 1 oz gum camphor, ^ oz sal ammo- 
nia, ^ oz each of oil oreganum and rosemary, 
^ oz oil wormwood, when the oils are dis- 
solved or mixed add six oz soft soap. This 
is excellent for Sprains and Bruises. 



EECEIPT BOOK. 25 

COCOx\NUT CAKE. 

The whites of 16 or 17 eggs, 1 lb of sugar, 
f of butter, 1 of flour, 1 cocoanut, take some 
flour from the pound to flour the cocoanut, 
add it just before going into the oven. 



COMMON CRULLERS. 

4 eggs, 2 tea-cu2)S sugar, 1 of milk or 
cream, ^ cup butter, a little saleratus. 



MUFFINS. 
1 quart milk, 2 eggs, flour to make it a- 
bout as thick as soft waflles, yeast suflicient 
to raise them : Just before baking stir in a 
little melted butter. 



ICING FOR CAKES. 

Beat the whites of eggs to an entire froth; 
to each egg, add 5 spoonfuls of sifted loaf- 
sugar ; gradually beat it a great while. Put 
it on while your cake is hot, and set it in a 
warm oven to dry. 



RHEUMATIC PLASTER. 

Take one pound Resin, 4 ounces Sulphur, 
one ounce Camphor gum, ^ ounce Cayenne 
Pepper. Put in a little neats foot oil or 
tallow and simmer them together ; turn it 
into water and work it as you do wax. 



26 tuthill's 

CHINESE JELLY & HONEY. 

Put into a pint of water the fourth of an 
ounce of alum; boil on a quick fire, then 
remove it ; and stir in four pounds of White 
Sugar ; boil on a quick fire for two minutes; 
set it off and let the boiling subside ; replace 
it on the fire for a half minute, twice ; strain 
it through a cotton cloth. When cool, add 
a teaspoonful of this to four pounds of Jelly. 
For Lemon Jelly, put one drop of Oil of 
Lemon in the bottom of the jar; pour the 
Jelly on it while warm, and let it stand for 
ten hours. Make different Jellies by using 
ditferent Oils. 

HONEY.— Put one fourth of a lb of pure 
honey in ajar, and four pounds of Jelly; 
let it stand for three hours. To pre]>are the 
extract, put one ounce of pulverized Jamai- 
ca Ginger and twenty drops Otto of Roses 
into a pint of pure alcohol, shake twice a 
day for two days. 



LIP SALVE. 

One ounce of white v, ax, two ounces of 
hog's lard, Is. worth of the Balsam of Peru, 
a few raisins, shred very fine, and as much 
aikanet root as will color it. Dissolve all 
in a pipkin on the fire before you add the 
aikanet root ; then strain it through muslin 
and put it into boxes for use. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 27 

FRENCH SOAP. 

Take five lbs White Bar soap. 

Take one half lb of salsoda. 

Take one fourth lb of Borax. 

And eighteen quarts of soft water. 

Slice the soap fine, and boil until dissolv- 
ed. Then dissolve the salsoda and borax 
in a little warm water, add Avhile on tho 
fire ; let it boil three minutes and it is lit for 
use as soon as cold. 

DIRECTIONS.— Soak the clothes in a 
little warm soap suds fifteen minutes, then 
rinse them out, put them in clean suds, and 
boil fifteen minutes, then rinse them out and 
hang up. 

Foe making hard soap. — Add a half 
lb of white Resin and a little less water. 



DOCT. WOOD'S HAIR TONIC. 

Rose water 4 ounces, sugar lead 1 drachm; 
mix well together; the above vrili make two 
quarts by adding water. 



LEMON MEAD. 

8 gallons of water 8 lbs white sugar, one 
pint of good yeast, mix all together, flavor 
with lemon oil to suit the taste ; put it in a 
jug, let it stand 12 hours, keep over night, 
then it is fit for use. 



28 tuthill's 

WASHING FLUID. 

Take one pound of salsoda, and a half a 
pound of unslaked lime ; put them in a gal- 
lon of water, and boil twenty minutes : let it 
stand till cool, then drain off, and put it 
away m a stone jug or jar. Soak your 
dirty clothes over night, or until they are 
well wet through ; then <\'rmg them out and 
rub on plenty of soap, and to one boiler of 
clothes, well covered over with water, add 
one teacupful of the washing fluid. Boil 
lialf an hour briskly, then wash them thor- 
oughly through one Buds, and rinse well 
through two waters, and your clothes will 
look better than the old way of washing 
twice before boiling. 



TO DRY PLUMS. 

Split ripe plums, take the stones from them, 
and lay on plates or sieves to dry, in a warm 
oven or hot sun; take them in atsunset,and do 
not put them out again until the sun will be 
upon them ; turn them that they may be 
done evenly ; when perfectly dry, pack them 
in jars or boxes lined witli paper, or keep 
them in bags ; hang them in an airy place. 



LONDON BUTTER SCOTCH. 

1 lbs wliite sugar, 1 lb butter, J- oz. tar- 
taric acid, ^ oz. of Alum. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 29 

SUPERIOR WASHING SOAP. 

Take 5 pounds -vrhite bar soap, three 
pounds sal soda, eight ounces Borax, put 
tiiem into 20 qt?. soft water, heat and stir 
until dissolved then remove from the fire, 
add 2 oz. Carbonate of Ammonia. While 
hot stir the whole together, when cold it is 
fit for use. 

A cheaper article may be made by sub- 
stituting 7 lbs. of soft soap instead of the 
hard soap. 



SODx\ SYRUP. 

1 oz, of tartaric acid, to 3 lbs of white 
sugar, 1 pint of water to every lb sugar, 
flavor with lemon oil to suit the taste, the 
whites of 3 eggs, to every 10 lbs sugar, mix 
all together let it come to a boil, strain 
through a flannel cloth or bag. This is the 
way to make all kinds of syrups for soda 
only ; flavor with oil of lemon, sassafras, 
wintergreen, or what suits your taste. 



LUCY'S RYE CAKES. 

Four and a half cups rye meal, three eggs, 
one and a half tea-spoonfuls cream tartar, 
even teaspoonful soda ; mix with milk to 
make as thick as poimd cake. Bake in hearts 
and rounds. To be eaten hot, for breakfast 
or tea. 



30 TUTHILL S 

CALF'SFOOT JELLY. 

4 Calfs/eet, 4 qts. of water boil down to 2 
let it cool, skim the grease ofFit, set it 
over the fire till dissolved, add 2 ozs. of 
isingglass, 1 lb of white sugar to 1 pint of 
the liquid, the white of 5 eggs beaten to a 
froth, cinnamon, mace or oil of lemon to 
suit the taste. 

CALF'SFOOT JELLY. 

3 ozs of jelliton, dissolved in 3 qts. of 
water, and one pint maderia wine, 3 lemons, 
3 lbs white sugar, the whites of 4 eggs, bea- 
ten to a froth, boil it ; strain in through a 
flannel cloth set it away until cold undis- 
turbed. 



MACAROONS. 

1 lb of almonds made fine, the whites of 
12 eggs, mixed in one at a time till they are 
all mixed with the almonds, then add 2 lbs 
of white sugar; bake them in a cool oven. 

SUGAR CAKE. 

8 lbs sugar, 24 eggs, 4 lbs butter, 2 qt. 
water, 4 ozs hartshorn, flour enough to make 
it work. 

Common Pound Cake. — 5 lbs sugar, 3 lbs 
butter, 36 eggs, 3 ozs hartshorn, 3 pints wa- 
ter, 10 lbs flour. 



r 



EECEIPT BOOK. 31 

BLUE-STOCKING PUDDING. 

Two-tliirds cnp of butter, one cup molas- 
ses, two cups niilk, two teaspoons saleratus, 
four eggs, two pounds raisins, stoned and 
chopped, a quarter pound citron, cloves, ein. 
namon, nutmeg and salt to taste ; flour to 
make as thick as pound cake. Steam or 
boil five hours. To be eaten with wine sauce. 



CORN MEAL PUDDING WITHOUT 

EGGS. 
Take six table-spoonfuls of meal, and stir 
molasses enough to have the meal all wet, 
and no more ; that will sweeten it enough : 
then take one quart of milk and boil it ; pom- 
it on the meal boiling hot ; stir the meal 
while pouring the milk on to it, so as not to 
have it lumpy ; stir in three table-spoonfuls 
of wheat flour, wet with a Httle cold milk ; 
salt it, and bake two hours ; add spices, if 
you like. This will make an excellent pud- 
din sj. 



QUEEN'S CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, five eggs, one 
gill wine, one gill brandy, one gill cream, one 
nutmeg, one pound raisins. Simmer the 
wine, brandy, cream and spice together, and 
let it get quite cold before adding the rest. 



32 tutiiill's 

TOMATO FIGS. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes, in 
order to remove the skin ; then weigh and 
piace them in a stone jar, with as much sugar 
as you have tomatoes, and let them stand 
two days ; then pour oif the syrup, and boil 
and skim it until no skum rises. Then pour 
it over the tomatoes, and let tliem stand two 
days, as before ; then boil and skim 
again. Atter the third time they are fit to 
dry, if the weather is good ; if not, let them 
stand in the syrup until drying weather. 
Then place on large earthen plates or dishes, 
and put them in the sun to dry, which will 
take about a week, after which pack them 
down in small wooden boxes, with fine white 
Bugar between every layer. Tomatoes pre- 
pared iu this manner will keep for years. 



TOMATO MEAT PIE. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with 
bread crumbs ; then make a layer of cold 
roasted mutton, cut in small pieces ; then a 
layer of tomatoes, sliced ; then another layer 
of bread crumbs, another of meat, another of 
tomatoes, and then cover with bread crumbs, 
and bake till the crust is brown. Season 
with salt and pepper to your tast. It will 
bear high seasoning. Serve hot, and a bet- 
ter relishinoj dish is not often met with. 



RECEIPT BOOK. o^i 

TO PRESERVE PLUMS WITHOUT 
THE SKINS. 

Pour boiling water over Inrge egg or 
luagTuim bonum plums, cover them until it 
is cold, then pull off the skins. Make a syrup 
of a pound of sugar and a teacup of water 
for each pound of fruit; make it boiling hot, 
and pour it over ; let them remain for a day 
or two, then strain it off and boil again; skim 
it clear, and pour it hot over the plums ; let 
them remain until the next day, then put 
them over the fire in the syrup ; boil them 
very gently until clear ; take them from the 
syrup with a skimmer into the pots or jars ; 
Vioil the syrup until rich and tliick ; take olf 
and skum that may arise, then let cool and 
settle, and pour it over the plums. If brown 
pugar is used, which is quite as good,exce])t 
for greengages clarify it as directed. 



TOMATO KETCHUP. 

One gallon of skinned tomatoes ; four 
table spoonfuls of Sfilt;four of black pepper; 
half tablespoonful of allspice ; one of red 
pepper; three of mustard; three large onions 
cut fine ; simmer all together with a pint of 
sharp vinegar for three or four hours ; then 
strain through a wire sieve, and bottle close. 
Those who prefer it may add, when cool, 
two tablespoonfuls of juice of garlic. 
3 



84 tuthill's 

PINE APPLE JELLY. 

Pare and j2;rnto tl>e pineapple, and put into 
the )n-eservin<x i)an with one pound of fine 
^vhite 8uo:ar to every pound of fruit ; stir it 
and })oil until well mixed, and thieken suf- 
liciently, then strain it, poiu- it into jars, and 
wlien it has become cool, cover the jellies 
Avith papers wet with brandy ; eoverthejar* 
tightly, and treat them as apple jelly. 



iVnil AN'f AND PtASPBEKKY J ELLY. 

Pick over a quart of red ciuTants, a quart 
ol white currants, and a quart of raspberries; 
put the whole over the tire, stir them and 
l)oil them about ten mhuites, then rub theni 
through a sieve ; strain the liquor, \^'hile hot, 
tlu-ough a jelly bag, add a pound of fine 
white sugar to every pintof liquor ; boil and 
tivat it as directed for apple jelly. 



TOMATO TAPvT. 

Cover a plate with a. thin laying of dough. 
Cut your tomatoes (green) into thin slices, 
and place them on the dough, A^ery evenly; 
then add two table-spoonfuls of brown su- 
g:u\ and one of ground cinnamon. Spread 
them evenly over the tomato, and bake well. 
Tliis makes a delicious tart. The tomatoes 
u-sed should be soiuid and sweet. 



KECKH'T BOOK. ?f^ 



MILK RISING BREAD. 

Tills is made, altogetlicr, in iiiniiy fami- 
lics ; especially in the country, where h;i- 
ki'r's yeast is not to be procured. It is h 
very white and beautiful bread when well- 
riKule, though hardly as nutritious as hop 
yeast. It is less trouble to make it tliaii 
ahnost any other kind, after the house wife 
has once acquired the art. Take of milk, 
nccordinii to the si/eofthe ])aking required, 
make it blood-warm by putting in liot wa- 
ter, al)Out half in half; add salt in prop«>i'- 
tion of a teaspoonful to a pint ; make a thin 
batter — not very thin— -set the vessel cour 
taining it in a larger one, so that it will be 
surrounded with lukewarm water, which 
must be kept at that temperature until the 
s»ponge rises. It should be very light; buV 
it must not stand too long, an it acquires :i 
ilisagreeable odor, and makes wet, hea^-y 
l)read by so doing. As soon as light, pour 
the sponge into the center of your baking of 
Hour; add more milk or water; knead int(» 
loaves, set to rise in buttered pans, bake 
half or three quarters of an hour in rather 
a quick oven. This bread dries sooner 
than most other varieties, and should be 
made often. 



3'6 TUTHILL S 

SODA BISCUITS. 

]\Ieasuro out the exact qnantity of flour 
which you will require, so that the })ropor- 
lions will be inaintjiined: one qnnrt of flour; 
one pint of Avater; one small teaspoonful of 
>:o»la; two of cr'-aui tartar; two ounces of 
hutter. Rub tlie butter tlioronohly into the 
flour; after this is done, stir tlie cream of 
tartar equally tlirouiyh it; dissolve the soda 
in the water, which should be sli^litly 
warmed, pour it into the centre of the fl.our, 
mix it 11}) lightly, liastily, and not too stift', 
roll it out upon the moulding-board, cut 
them out with cake cutter or tumbler, ]>lace 
them upon floured pans, bal^e immediately 
in a quick oven. P^very cook can have soda 
biscuits of a quality to delight the palate 
by a little care in following these directions. 
All mixtures which are ligtitened with soda 
and cream of tartar should be so put togeth- 
er that the greater part of the fermentation 
will take place after they go into the oven. 
For this reason biscuits should not stand 
long after being made. A quick oven is ab- 
solutely necessary to their proper baking ; 
it should be hot when they are placed in it. 
Twenty mhnites is enough for them. Tliey 
should also be served shortly after they are 
baked. 

Observe : cream of tartar is more apt to 



f 



RECEirT BOOK. Si 

vary in strength than soda. Tlic usual pr(v 
]K>rtion.s should be twice as much in bulk of* 
cream of tartar, whatever the mixture in 
which it is placed. Should the dough, ujj- 
oii l)aking, liavc a greenish tinge, it is evi- 
dent that the cream of tartar is dt'ficieut iu 
<«nality — a little more must be used. 



JOHNNY CAKE. 

A quart of sour or butter milk ; a little 
*ialt: a piece of butter half the size of an 
i',rif • corn-meal enough for a stiff batter. 
Just before ])laciug upon buttered tins fov 
Iho oven, add a lieaped teaspoonful of soda 
or salfftratug. An egg should be added if 
convenient. If a riclier cake is desired, 
two eggs and a spoonful of syrup or srigar 
should be used. Bake three qu:u*ters of an 
hour. 

APPLE JOIIXXY CARE. 

Where- rich, tender apples are plenty, 
such as are suitable for dumplings, tliree or 
tour apples, pared and sliced into tlie batter, 
make a delicious variety of this kind of hot 
bread. 



SODA BISCUIT CRACKERS. 

Take to one bbl of liour, 3 pails water, 
•20 lbs lavd, 10 oz. saleratus, 2^ lbs salt, 4 qt. 
Bakers' yeast. 



."^S TUTIIILL .i 

BUCKWHEAT CAKKS. 

Stir buckwheat flour into luko\v:vrin \r;i- 
t«r; it will take nearly a quart of fiour to -.h 
]>iut of water ; add a small cuj> yeast. Set 
it to rise over iiigbt; if wislied for Ijreakfast. 
J.eave plenty of room in the vessel eontaiu- 
inc:; it, or it will overrun. If it should he 
sour in the morning, add soda until it i.« 
sweet. These cakes should not stand, aiur 
haking, so as to sweat, as that desti-oys tlie 
<Mis}>uess which shouhl be a part of their ex- 
cellence. I'hev should be served when 
taken from the grid«lle. Use ]>art of the 
last l>atter to rise the next, when you have 
them dailv. 



CORN OlIIDDLE CAKES. 
3[ake your batter of sotu- or butter-niiik, 
find a little thicker than when wheatflour i^ 
used. A handful of wheat iiour should bo 
stirred in, or they will bi'eak in pieces while 
bciiig turned. Cakes, half of whitc^ t^onr 
half of corn-meal, are more easily digested 
than wheat alone. 



TOMATO GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Slice ripe tomatoes into a nice batter, atid 
)' them. To lovers 
are a delectable dish. 



fry them. To lovers of that vegetable they 



I 



RECEIPT BOOK. 3^0 

BANXOCK. 

Two (Mips of mca! ; two of flour ; a trn- 
jtpoonful of salt; one of ginircr ; fourspoonis- 
ful of molasses; wet with biittcr-milk or sour 
inilk ; a teaspooiiful of salerattis. liakc ;iu 
hour. 



PJCII GlilDDLE CAKP:S. ^ 

Grid<lle cakes are better to have ab«^ut 
four ei^i^s to a (juart of milk. To l)e very 
iiiee, the eixgs should be beaten separately. 
They can then be ma<le with sweet milk, 
•M\d a little soda and cream of tartar added. 



WILLTLTS INDIAN CAKE. 

One pint milk, one tea-spoonful saleratus, 
three eggs, one tea-spoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful Hour, two eggs, Indian meal tt) 
make a t^nn btitter. ]>ake three-(piarters of 
an liour. 



FRITTERS. 

Make a stiff batter of flour in a ([uart of 
Avarm milk ; add a gill of melted butter, a 
little salt, and three eggs well beaten; lialf 
a teaspoonful of soda, and a teaspoonful of 
ci-eam tartar. Drop this mixture from a 
spoon, in pieces the size of an (?<^g, into a 
kettle of hot lard, and fry them brown. 



40 tutiiilt/3 

MUFFINS. 

To a quart of warm inilk add an egg, a 
})iecc of butter the size of a heirs egg, a lit- 
tle salt, and a gill of yeast: stir in flour to 
nuike a thick batter ; let it stand to rise in a 
warm place, ( it for breakfast, tliey can be 
set the night before); butter your rings, and 
put them upon a hot griddle well greased. 
When a good browji upon one side, turn 
them ; do not burn them. 



MUFFIXS. 

Very delicious muflins may be made, at a 
few moments' notice, by using four eggs to 
Ji quart of milk, and omitting the yeast. 
Stir in flour until a thick batter. The eggs 
should be beaten separately ; a little more 
butter may be used. This kind will be nice 
baked in small tins in the oven, instead of 
in rings upon the griddle. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Slice tart, tender apples in thin pieces in- 
to the flour for the batter. 



SWEET FRITTERS. 

Put a teacupful of su«-ar into a quart of 
batter. 



I 



RECEIPT BOOK. 41 

WAFFLES. 

Make a thicker batter than for the griddle 
cakes, but not too thick. Allow at least tw» 
eggs to a quart of milk. Have your walHf- 
irons well-heated and greased ; fill one side ; 
shut them up ; keep both sides hot V)y 



CORN SrAFvCII PIE. 

To one quart of milk put two table-spoon- 
fuls of corn starch, and two eggs. Sweeten, 
salt and season to the taste. Line a pie- 
plate with crust, and bake as custard. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One quart of milk, the yelks of three 
eggs, and table-spoonful of flour, stirred in 
the milk when boiling hot ; let it just boil ; 
then pour into your dish ; drop the beaton 
whites into hot water, and lay on tlie top 
when cool. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Wash a teacupful of sago ; put in your 
pudding-disli,and pour on a quart of boiling 
water, stiring all the time ; put hi a little 
salt, and a table-spoonful of sugar. The 
longer it stands thus before baking, the 
better. Bake slowly an hour. Eaten 
with sugar and butter stirred together, 



42 TUTIIILL S 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

I^eat up a few eg2:s with a little salt, turn 
tlieui into a pau which has iu it a little 
melted butter, stir theui until thickened, 
t-uni them out into a hot dish. 



OMELETTE. 

l>eat up five egjjjs with a quart of milk, 
a little salt, and a teacup of flour ; have 
your frying-pan at a very moderate heat, 
])nt about an ounce of butter in it ; turn half 
the above quantity into it at once ; let it do 
*lo\vly, until it is of a light brown upon the 
under side and thickened throughout ; with 
a broad knife turn half the omelette over 
upon the other half, so that it will be brown 
upon the outer sides ; take it up carefully 
upon a warm plate, and serve immediately. 
Put another ounce of butter in the pan, and 
fry the remainder. Many persons like a 
little fine-chopped parsley in it; or parsley 
and about two ounces of cold-boiled ham 
chopped fine. 

TO Mx\KE HARD WATER SOFT. 

Take one oz. of fresh lime and stir it well 
iu a bucket of water, then stir all thorough- 
ly in a barrel of water, and as soon as it set- 
tles the water will be soft and fit for use, as 
it will drive every impurity to the bottom. 



KECEirX BOOK. 43 

BEEFALAMODE. 
Cut the meat into pieces of three or four 
ounces each ; mince a couple of onions and 
i)ut them, with a quarter-pound of beef-drip- 
])ing, into a largo, deep stew-pan. As soon 
as it quite hot, Hour the meat, put in the pan, 
"keep stirring it; wlien it has been on about 
ten minutes, dredge it with flour until you 
have stirred in as much as will thicken ; tlien 
cover it with boiling water, adding it grad- 
ually, and stirring it at the time (it will 
take two quarts to six pounds of meat); 
skim it when it boils; then put in one 
drachm of ground black pepper, two of all- 
spice, and two bay cloves ; set the pan by 
the fire, or at a distance over it ; let it stew 
very slowly for two or three hours. When 
you find the meat sufficiently tender, put it 
into a tureen, and it is ready for the table. 



PICKLE FOR GORNIXG F,EEF. 

For one hundred pounds beef, six gallons 
water ; nine ])Ounds salt, half coarse, half 
fine; three pounds brown sugar; one quart 
of molasses ; three ounces of saltpetre. Boil 
it all together, skim ofi:' the scum, and after 
packing the beef in a tub or barrel, pour 
the hot contents over the meat. This par- 
tially cooks it, makes it tender, and keeps it 
eweet. 



44 TUTlIIt.T. S 

MIXCED PIE. 

Boil fresh beef perfectly tender, that wiil 
slip off the bone. The head and harslet 
are nice for this purpose. Take out all the 
liard gristle and hone and tough parts, when 
lioi. As soon as it is cold, chop it all very 
line, and' if you do not want it for inimediiit(> 
use, season it with pepper, salt, cloves and 
cinnamon, and press it closely into a stone 
jar,and pour molasses over the top, and when 
after a few days or weeks, it has left the 
surface, pour on more to keep it nice. T(^ 
every two quarts of cho])])ed meat, a half a 
teacupful of ground-cinnnmon, atahle-spoon- 
ful of ground cloves, a teasj^oonful of pej)- 
per, and a tahle-spoonful of salt, will kee{) 
it well, with molasses poured over it, a year. 
It is far more convenient to have meat thu:-* 
})re])ared for use through tlie winter than 
to boil every time it is needed. The pro- 
portion should be a third meat, and two 
thirds apple, chopped very fine ; those a 
little sour are best. A good mince-jiie is a 
general favorite, and formerly, brandy was 
deemed indispensable in giving them the 
right ihivor. But we are happy to inform 
our temperance friends and others, that a 
mince-pie can be made equally good with- 
out either wine or brandy. Add a good 
quantity of raisins, and season high with 



RKCEirX BOOK. 45 

*[)iccs and molasses, adeling water sufficiont 
to keep them moist, made up in a rich nice 
f)aste, and there will be nothing wanting in 
flavor or quality. They should be baked 
one hour in a moderate oven. 



VARNISH FOR PICTURES OR MAPS. 

Take of Balsam of Fir one oz., spirits of 
Turpentine two ozs. — mix well together. 

Before tliis composition is applied the 
picture or drawing must be siz(?d Avilh a so- 
hition of Ichthaocila, or iish glue. When 
dry .i.pply the varnish. 



LINIMENT. 

Alcohol 1 qt., gum camphor 4 ozs., tur- 
pentine 2 ozs., oil origanum 2 ozs., sweet 
oil 1 oz. For cuts or corks in horses or cat- 
tle, (in winter,) it has no equal; work right 
along, but put it on often. For human flesh 
use twice the amount of alcohol, and no lin- 
iment Avill be found superior to it. 



COUGH SYRUP. 

Take s^rup of squills 2 oz., tartarized an- 
timony 8 grs., sulphate of morphine 5 grs., 
pulverized gum arable ^ oz., honey 1 oz., 
w^ater 1 oz. — mix. Dose for an adult, small 
teaspoonful ; repeat in half an hour if it 
does not relieve. Child in proportion. 



40 Trxiui.i/s 

ENGLISH DINNEK WINK. 

FIIOM GAllDEX liHUJJAUB, Oli ]*IE I'LAXT. 

All .Mgreeablo and hralthful wine is niaiU* 
IVom llie ex)>resscd juice of the garden 
iiliiibarl). To each gallon of juice ad<l ono 
gallon of Soft water in which 7 ]K>urids of 
brown sugar has been dissolved ; fill a keg 
or barrel with this proportion, leaving tho 
bung out, and kee|) it filled with sweetened 
water as it works off until cleai*. Any othr 
or vegetable extract may be atlded if this 
flavor is not hked, then bung down or bot- 
tle as you desire. These stalks will furnish 
about three-fourths their weight in juice. 
Fine and settle by dissolving isinglass in 
a sninll portion of the liquid, and })ouring 
into the keg or barrel. 



EYE WATER. 

Take one table spoonful each of table salt 
and sulphate of zinc, (white vitriol,) burn it 
on copper or earthen until dry ; ^ pint soda 
water, a sjioonful of white sugar, and sul- 
phate of co|>per, (blue vitriol,) size of a pea. 
If too strong reduce >vith soft water. If the 
eyes are very sore, or of long standing, 
take a spoonful of epsoiu salts every other 
night for two or three times, and use tbreo 
or four times daily of the eve-water. 



KECEirX BOOK. 4^ 

FOR COACH PAINTING. 

Coach Laccke ok Japax. — One gallon 
ofgood Linseed oil, half pound shellac gam. 
haiftb lithrage, half tb red lead. Make in 
an iron kettle over a coal fire. Heat grad- 
ally and continue stirring until all melted, 
then remove from the fire and add slowly 
a half lb sugar of lead. Re<luce with three 
quarts spirits of turpentine when a little 
cool. Care must be taken to prevent burn- 
ing while heating. 

FOK FLOORS AND INSIDE HOUSE 
PAINTING. 

Process of making same as Coach paint, 
above described. L"se the foUov^'ing ingre- 
dients : 

Seven quarts Linseed oil, half pound red 
lead, half pound lithrage, luilf pomid gum 
BhcUac. Stir wliile maldng, and add while 
quite hot one gallon spirits of turpentine. 



BEST BURNING FLUID. 

Take nine phits of 95 or 98 per cent, al- 
cohol and put in one quart of good cam- 
phene, and shake it briskly and it will be- 
come clear at once, when without the sha- 
king it would take from six to seven quarts? 
of alcohol to cut the camphene. This can- 
not be outdone. 



48 tu liiill's 

GREEN MOUNTAIN SALVE. 

FOR RHEUMATISM, BURNS, PAINS IN THE 
SIHK OR BACK, BOILS, &c. 

Take 2 fts resin, ^ ft) burgundy pitc*]i, ^ 
it) beeswax, ^ ft) mutioii tallow ; melt thein 
slowly. When not too warm, add 1 oz oil 
hemlock, 1 oz. balsam of fir, 1 oz. oil origa- 
num, 1 oz. oil of red cedar, 1 oz. Venice 
turpentine, 1 oz. oil wormwood, i- oz. verdi- 
gris. The verdigris must be very finely pul- 
verised and mixed with the oils ; then add 
Hs above, and work all in cold water as wax 
until cool enough to roll ; rolls o inches long 
and 1 inch in diameter sell for 25 cts. Tliis 
salve has no equal for rheumatic pains, or 
weakness in the side, back, shoulders, or any 
])lace where pain may locate itself. Where 
the skin is broken, as in ulcers, bruises, etc, 
omit the verdigris. This salve will be found 
a very superior and reliable article for all of 
the above specified purposes. 



EXCELLENT HONEY. 

Take five pounds good common sugar, 2 
lbs. water ; gradually bring to a boil, skim- 
ming well ; when cool add one pound bees' 
honey, and four drops essence of pepper- 
mint. If you desire a better article use 
white sugar, a half pound less water and a 
'^alf pound more honey. 



EECEIPT BOOK. 49 

JAVA HONEY. 

Good brown sugar, 11 lbs.; water, 1 qt.; 
old bee bread honey in the comb, 2 pounds; 
cream tartar, 50 grs.; gum arable, 1 oz.; oil 
of peppermint, 5 drops ; oil of rose, 2 drops. 
Mix, and boil two or three minutes and re- 
move from the fire. Have ready, strained, 
one quart of water in which a tablespoonful 
of pulverized slippery elm bark has stood 
sufficiently long to make it ropy and thick 
like honey. Mix this into the kettle with 
an egg well beaten up. Skim well in a few 
minutes, and when a little cool, add two 
pounds nice strained bees' honey and strain 
the whole, and you will have not only an 
article which looks and tastes like honey, 
but which possesses all its medicinal prop- 
erties. It has been shipped in large quanti- 
ties under the name of Java Honey. It 
will keep as fresh and nice as when made, 
any length of time if properly covered. 

HONEY. 

Take 5 lbs common brown sugar, 1 oz. 
cream tartar, l-J pints water, 1^ ibs strained 
honey. Add a little water to the cream tar- 
tar to dissolve it, then stir all up together 
and boil and skim 15 or 20 minutes. This 
receipt is simple and reliable, and the honey 
will be found superior. 



^n) TUTIIILT/S 

EXCKLSIOU LINIMKNT. 
rOR IMMKDIATE UKLIEF OF PAIN. 
ThIvC 95 per coiit. Jilcoliol, 2 qts., :in<l add 
ti> it the tbllowiii.uf articles; oils of Hemlock 
and Sassafras, spirits of Tiirj)eiitinc, Balsam 
of Kir, cliloroibrm, and tinctures of calechu 
atid gnaiaci (coinuionly called guac,) of 
each one oz.; oil of orrigaiuini, 2 ozs.; oil of 
wiiitcrgreen, .1- oz., and gum camphor, ,1 oz. 

OniKi'TioNS FOii USE. — For lilieiimatism, 
hatho the parts affected freely, and wet a 
piece of ilannel and bind on the parts. 

For Headache, "NTeui-algia, Cuts, Sprains, 
ISuriis, Ih'uises and Si)inal Affections, bathe 
cKterually, immediately covering with dry 
tlannel, or olso wetting the ilannel and keep- 
ing it on the part. If billions lieadache, 
take internally one tcaspoonful in a little 
water every two hours, applying to the head 
at the same time until relief is obtained. 

ji'or Ear-ache, wet cotton or wool and 
put it into the car. Xo article equals this 
f:)r the car. 

For Tooth-ache, apply to the gum with 
the linger, and to the lace over the painful 
teeth, pressing the hand on the face until it 
liiurns with heat. 

For Sore Tliroat, take ten drops on sugar 
swallowing gradually, and bathe the throat 
freely. Repeat, in all cases, if necessary. 



KECEIPT BOOK. 51 

This receipt has hocn sold frequently for 
from ten to twenty-live dollars, and thou- 
sands of dollars have been made by agenti 
manufacturing and selling the article. 

DIAKRIIKA CORDIAL. 
Best Rhubarb pulverized 1 oz., pepper- 
mint leaf pulverized 1 oz., eapsieum ^ oz., 
cover with boiling water and 8teep twenty 
minutes, strain through wliito woolens or 
filter, and add -J- oz. bi-cai*b. potash, X oz. 
essence cinnamon, and brandy (or good 
whisky,) equal in amount to the whole, and 
four ounces loaf sugar. Dose for an adult, 
one to two tablespoonsf ul ; child, one to two 
teaspoonsful Irom three to six times per day 
or until relief is obtained. 



TINCTURES. 

Tinctures are made with 1 oz. of gum, 
root or bark, <fcc., dried, to each pint of 
proof spirit, and usually stand about one 
week and filter. 



BARRELL'S INDIAN LINIMENT. 

Alcohol, 1 qt.; tincture of capsicum, 1 oz; 
oils of orriganum, sassafras, pennyroyal, 
hemlock, of each t} ounce. — mix. This lin- 
iment is now kept for sale by most drug- 
gists, and has been in market 15 yeare. 



62 tuthill's 

RELIABLE TOOTH CORDIAL AND 
PAIN KILLER. 

Alcohol, 95 per cent. 2 oz.; laudanum, ^ 
oz.; chloroform l^ ozs.; gum camphor, 2 oz.; 
oil cloves, 2 drachms. Mix, and color with 
tincture of red sanders. If there is a nerve 
exposed this will quiet it. Apply with lint. 
Rub also on the gums and any place where 
there is pain. 



VEGETABLE PHYSIC. 

Jailap 1 oz., senna 2 oz.. Peppermint 1 oz, 
(a little cinnamon if desired,) all pulverized 
and sifted through gauze. Dose, 1 tea 
spoonful put in a tea cup with two or three 
spoonsful of hot water ar^d a good lump of 
loaf sugar ; when cool drink all, to be taken 
fasting in the morning, drink gruel freely. 
If it does not operate in three hours repeat 
half the quantity. 

GENUINE SEIDLITZ POWDER. 

Rochelle salts 2 drachms; bi-carb. soda 
2 scruples ; put these into a blue paper, and 
put 35 grains of tartaric acid into a white 
paper. To use, put each into difierent tum- 
bler, fill half with water and put a little loaf 
sugar in with the acid, then pour together 
and drink. This makes a very pleasant ca- 
thartic. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 53 

SALUDA BEER. 

Take 30 gallons of water ; brown sugar 
20 lbs ; ginger root brused 1 J lbs. ; cream 
tartar ^ lb. ; carbonate of soda 3 oz. ; one 
teaspoonful of oil lemon cut in a little alco- 
hol ; whites of ten eggs well beat ; hops 2 
oz. ; yeast 1 quart. The ginger root and 
hops should be boiled 20 or 30 minutes in 
enough of the water to make all milk warm, 
then strained into the rest and the yeast ad- 
ded and allowed to work itself clear as the 
cider and bottled. 



ESSENCES. 
Peppermint oil, 1 oz.; Alcohol, 1 pint, and 
the same proportion of any oil you wish to 
use. Peppermint is colored with tincture 
of turmeric, and cinnamon with tincture of 
red sandal or sanders wood. Wintergreeu 
with tincture of kino. Moat essences are 
only made half or quarter as strong, and 
are not worth buying. 



In getting up soda drinks, it will be 
found preferable to put about 4 oz. of car- 
bonate, sometimes called super-carbonate of 
soda, into 1 pint of water and shake when 
you wish to make a glass of soda and 
pour of this into a glass until it foams well, 
instead of using dry soda. 



$ i TUTHILL S 

TAPIOCA PUDDI>s^G. 

To one pint of water, add a teacupful of 
tapioca, and soak over night. In the mor- 
ning add two beaten cgg^, three pints of 
railk, and bake as any otiier. Another: 
JIalf a pint of tapioca dissolved in a quart 
of milk while boiling; add six eggs when 
nearly cold, with nntnieg or cinnamon. 
Bake ton or fifteen minntes. 



BOILING EGGS. 

Time — two to fonr minnies. Two -min- 
utes set about lialf the white of the egg, 
three minutes touch tlie yelk, and four min- 
utes harden the wliole egg. The clock 
should be watched, and the water kept at 
boiling point. 



PUDDING WITHOUT MILK. 

Crumble or cut bread fine, pour boiling 
water upon the bread, add salt and a little 
butter, two eggs beaten, and a tea-cup of 
English cm-rants, or any other fruit to suit 
your taste. 



Butter is improved by workmg the sec- 
ond time, after the lapse of twenty four 
hours, when the salt is dissolved, and tha 
watery particles can be entirely removed. 



KECEIPT BOOK. *>§ 

BIUTISII OIL. 

This truly valuable remedy, for the cuv^ 
of cuts, bruises, swelUngs and sores of Jii- 
most every description, is made of the fol- 
low in <>• im^^redients: Take oils of Turpen- 
tine and Linseed each 8 oz.; oils of amber 
and juniper, each 4 oz.; Barbadoes tar, three 
oz; Senaca oil, 2 oz.— mix. 

SODA SYRUPS. 

Loaf or crushed sugar 8 lbs. ; pure water, 
1 crallon , gum ai-abic, 1 oz. ; mix in a brass 
or'copper kettle; boil until the gum is din- 
solved, then skim and strain throu.cr a white 
flannel, after which add tartaric acid 5^ oz. 
dissolved in hot water ; to flavor, use extract 
oflemou, orange, rose, pineapple, peach, 
sarsapai-illa, strawberry, etc., i an oz. or to 
your taste. If you use the jmce ol lemon 
and 1^ lbs. of sugar to a pint, you do not 
need any tartaric^.cid with it ; now use 2 or 
3 tablespoonfnls of syrup, to f of a tumbler 
of water and 4- teaspoonful of super-car- 
bonate of soda made line ; stir well and be 
ready to drink ; the gum arable, however,^ 
holds the carbonic acid so it will not fly oR 
as rapid as connnon soda. For soda foun- 
tains 1 oz. of super-carbonate of soda is used 
to one o-allon of water. For charged foun- 
tains no acids are needed in the syrup. 



56 



GINGER POP— NO. 1. 

Take 5^ gallons water, f lb. ginger root 
bruised, ^ oz. tartaric acid, 2^ lbs. white 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs well beat, one small 
teaspoonful of lemon oil, 1 gill yeast; boil 
the root for thirty minutes in 1 gal. of the 
water, strain oif, and put the oil in while 
hot, mix. Make over night ; in the mor- 
ning skim and bottle, keeping out sedi- 
ments. 



GINGER POP. 
No 2. — Take 2 oz. best white Jamaica 
ginger root (bruised,) water six quarts, boil 
20 minutes, strain and add 1 oz. cream tar- 
tar, 1 lb. white sugar, put on the fire and 
8tir until all the sugar is dissolved and put 
into an eathern jar, now put in ^ oz. tartaric 
acid, and the rind of one lemon ; let it stand 
until 70 deg. of Farenheit, or until you can 
bear your hand in it with comtort, then add 
2 tablespoonfuls of yeast, stir well,bottle for 
use and tie the corks. Make a few days be- 
fore it is wanted for use. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM FOR COFFEE. 
Beat up a fresh egg ; then pour boiling 
water on it gradually, to prevent its curd- 
ling. It is difficult to distinguish it from 
rich cream. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 61 

TO CURE RING BONE. 

One half pint of Alcohol, a half pint of 
sweet oil, a half pint spirits of turpentine, 
2 oz. hartshorn in the spirits, 1 ounce of 
coperas, 1 oz. camphor gum. Pulverize the 
coperas, and mix well. Let the horse 
stand on the ground. Wash it once a day 
and bathe it in with a hot iron, for 15 days. 
This remedy may be relied on. 

TO MAKE VINEGAR. 

Add three quarts of molasses to eight 
quarts of clear rain water, in a good keg 
near the stove-pipe, put in two spoonsful 
of good yeast, or two dry yeast cakes. 
Shake it frequently. In about fifteen days 
put in a sheet of brown paper, cut in strips, 
which will create a mother. 



SALVE FOR CHAPPED HANDS. 

Take 1 oz. white wax ; 1 oz. spermaceti 
2 oz. sweet oil. Simmered tosrether. 



BARBERS' SHAMPOON MIXTURE. 

Half a pint of Alcohol, | pt. rain-water, 
1 tablespoonful hartshorn, 1 spoonful salera- 
tus, 1 of sal soda. Pulverize the hartshorn 
and sodas, put all in a bottle and shake be- 
fore using. The hair should be thoroughly 
rinsed with rain- water after using. 



68 TUTIIir.L s 

CHESEMAN^S ARx\BIA.K BALSAM. 

Take 1 oz. oil orrigiinum, 1 oz. spirits ol 
turpentine, 1 ounce rosemary, 1 oz. caniplior 
gum and four pounds fresh butter. Put tlie 
four tirst-nientioned articles in a bottle, and 
shake them well together. I'ut the butter 
in an iron kettle and vrhen melted mix the 
whole together. Then bottle it. 

FOR SEASONING SAUSAGES. 
To thirty pounds of meat add 11 oz. salt, 
2}y oz. black pepper, 3 oz. sage, 2 oz. sun.- 
mer savory, 1 tea cup brown sugar, 2 tea- 
»<}>oons of salt petre, and 1 teaspoonful ca- 
yenne pepper. 



YEAST. 

Take a good single handful of hops, and 
boil for 20 minutes in 3 joints of Avater, 
strain, stir in a t<ea-Gup full of iiour, a tablv- 
spoonful of sugar and a teaspoonful of salt ; 
when a little cool put in one gill brewers"' or 
V)akers' yeast; and after 4 or 5 hours cover 
uj) and stand in a cool place for use ; make 
again from this unless you let it get sour. 



BROWNING FOR GUN BARRELS. 

Take 1 ounce spirits of Avine, -^ oz. tinc- 
ture of steel, 1 oz., spirits of nitre, -^ ounco 
blue vitriol. 1 pint of rain water. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 6^9 

VARIOUS WINES. 

Take 38 gallons of good clariiied cider, 1 
gallon oroocl brandy, i lb. crude tartar, (tliis 
is what is de])osited by grape wines) 5 gal- 
lons of any wine yon <\'ish to represent, 1 
pint of sweet milk to settle it; draw oft" in 
from 24 to 36 hours after thoroughly mixing. 



BLACKBERRY AND STRAWBERRY 
WINES. 

Are made by taking the above wine when 
made Avith port wine, and for every 10 gal- 
lons from 4 to 6 quarts of the fresh fruit 
brused and strained, or added and let stand 
till the flavor is extracted. More or less 
may be used to suit the taste. In bottling, 
3 or 4 broken raising put into each bottle 
will add to their richness of flavor. 



TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

To 4 gallons water add 2 quarts fresh 
slaked lime and 2 quarts salt. Let stand 3 
days before using and sth- often. 

Let your eggs down mto a barrel filled 
with this mixture, with a dish, and they 
will settle down right end up with care, and 
keep for any reasonable length of time 
without any further care than to keep them 
covered with tlie fluid. Eggs m:iy be laid 
down in Ibis way any time after June, 



60 



LEMON, ORANGE AND RASPBERRY 
SYRUPS 

Where you have lemons which are spoil- 
ing and drying up, take the insides which 
are yet sound, squeeze out the iuice, and to 
each pint put 1 ^ lbs white sugar ; add 
a little of the peel, boil a few minutes strain 
and cork for use. This will not require any 
acid but orange or raspberry ; syrups are 
made in the same way with the addition of 
^ oz. of tartaric acid to each pint of juice, 
and ^ teaspoonful of soda to f of a glass of 
water, witli three or four tablespoonfuls of 
syrup. If water is added the syrup will 
not keep as well. 



TURKISH CREAM NECTAR. 

Part first. Take 1 gallon water, 6 lbs. 
loaf sugar, 6 oz. tartaric acid, gum arable 1 
oz. Part second. 4 teaspoonfuls of Hour, 
the whites of four eggs, beat the flour and 
and eggs finely together, then add ^ pint 
water ; when the first part is blood warm put 
in the second, boil three minutes and it is 
done. J^irections : 3 tablespoonfuls of the 
syrup to a glass half or two-thirds full of 
water, and add -^ teaspoonful of super-car- 
bonate of soda made fine ; stir well and 
drink at your leisure. . 



RECEIPT BOOK. 61 

GINGER WINE. 

Put one oz. good ginger root (bruised) in 
one qt. of ninty-five per cent alcohol, let it 
stand six days and strain, add four qts. 
water and one lb white sugar dissolved in 
hot water. 



TO CURE BURNS. 

Lime water and sweet oil of equal quan- 
tities, applied with a feather, will stop all 
pain. 

WATER PROOF OIL BLACKING 

Take one pint of camphene and put into 
it all the India rubber it will dissolve, 1 pint 
curriers oil, 6 pounds tallow, and 2 oz. lamp- 
black, mix thoroughly, by heat. This is a 
nice thing for old harness and carriage tops, 
as well as for boots and shoes. 

COLOGNE. 

Take of oil rosemary, of lemon, each ^ 
oz. oil of bergamot, oil of lavender, each ^ 
oz., oil of cinnamon 8 drops, oils clove and 
rose each fifteen drops, best alcohol, 2 
quarts, mix and shake well 2 or 3 times a 
day for a week. This will be better if 
deodorised or cologne alcohol is used. 



62 tuthill's 

CIDER WITHOUT APPLES. 

To each gallon of cold water, put 1 ft. 
common sugar, ^ oz. Tartaric Acid, 1 table - 
epoonful of yeast, shake well, make in the 
evening, and it will be fit for use next day. 
Make in a keg a few gallons at a time, lea- 
ving a few quarts to make into next time — 
not using yeast again until the keg needs 
rinsing. If it gets a little sour make more 
into it, or put as much water with it as 
there is cider, and put with the vinegar. If 
it is desired to bottle this cider by manu- 
facturers of small drinks^ you will proceed as 
follows : Put in a barrel 5 gallons of hot 
water, 30 lbs. brown siigar, f lb. tartaric 
acid, 25 gallons cold water, 3 f)ints of hop 
or brewers yeast, worked into a paste with 
f lb. flour, and one pint of water will be re- 
quired in making this paste, put altogether 
in a barrel, which it will fill, and let it work 
24 hours — the yeast running out of the bung 
all the time, by putting in a little occasion- 
ally to keep it full. Then bottle, putting in 
2 or 3 broken raisins to each bottle, and it 
will nearly equal Champagne. 

FOR MAKING ONE GALLON 
\YASIIING FLUID. 

Foar ounces salts of tnrter, 4 oz. saleratus, 

1 oz. salt petre, dissolved in pure rain water. 

This receipt has been sold for six dollars. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 68 

RAISIN WINE. 

Take 3 lbs nice raisins, free of stems, cut 
each one in 2 or 3 pieces, put them into a 
stone jug with one gallon of pure soft water, 
let them stand two weeks uncorked, shaking 
occasionally, (warm place in Avinter ;) strain 
through three or four thicknesses of wollen 
or filter, color with burned sugar, bottle and 
cork well for use. For saloon purposes 
add 1 pint good brandy. The more raisins 
that are used the better will be the wine, 
not exceeding^ 5 lbs. 



SPRUCE BEER. 

Take 3 gallons water, 1 quart and ^ pint 
raolasses, 3 eggs well beat, 1 gill )'east ; in- 
to 2 quarts of the Avater boiling hot, put 50 
drops of any oil you wish the flavor of; or 
mix 1 oz. each oil, sassafras, spruce and win- 
tergreen, then use the 50 drops. For gin- 
ger flavor, take 2 oz. ginger root bruised, 
and a few hops, and boil 30 minutes in one 
gallon of water ; strain and mix all. Let 
it stand two hours and bottle, using yeast of 
course as before. 



FOR HOT DROPS, NO. 6. 

To 2 qts. first rate brandy add ^ fb gum 
myirh, and 1 oz. African pepper. 



64 tuthill's 

TO REMOVE WARTS AND CORNS. 

Those who have not the patience to fol- 
low the more reasonable cure for warts or 
corns, will pursue the following course with 
success, avoiding, however, the taking cold 
after removing the wart or corn. Take the 
potash paste, composed of 1 lb potash dis- 
solved in ^ pt. water. Add half an oz. ex- 
tract of balladona, and 1 oz. gum arable, 
dissolved in a little water. Worked into a 
paste with wheat flour. 

After having paired oflfthe dead part of 
the wart or corn, put on the paste and let it 
remain from 5 to 8 minutes, when you will 
work around with a sharp knife and lift 
them out. Apply sweet oil or vinegar to 
kill tho alkali. 



CHOLERA MEDICINE. 

Laudanum 2 drachms, spirits of camphor 
1 drachm, sweet tincture of rhubarb 4 do., 
aqua ammonia, ^ do., oil peppermint fifteen 
drops. Dose, for adult half to one tea- 
spoonful. 

Anothee. — One oz. gum camphor, 1 oz. 
of laudanum, 4 oz. spirits of lavender, ^ pt. 
alcohol. Mix alcohol and camphor first. 
Dose from half to one teaspoonful once in 
two hours. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 65 

CURE FOR CONSUMPTION, 

FROM AN OLD INDIAN DOCTOR. 

Take 2 ibs Dandelion root; 1 fb Spig- 
nard root ; 1 ib Sarsapai-illa ; 1 ib Winter- 
green leaves ; 1 lb Princess Pine leaves ; 
2 ibs Raisins ; ^ ib Cinnamon ; ^ ib Cloves ; 
2 ibs Iloarhound. 

Boil the above ingredients in sufficient 
water to get out the strength, boil down 
to one gallon, strain and add 2 lbs loaf su- 
gar. Dose according to age and constitu- 
tion from a half teaspoonful to a large ta- 
blespoonfal, two or three times a day. 



TOOTHACHE. 

Take either Creosote, Oil of Cloves, 
Laudanum, or a mixture of powdered salt 
and alum moistened, put with a bit of cot- 
ton in the cavity of the tooth will stop the 
pain. 

P'or ague in the face put on a hot poul- 
tice of hops or ginger on a piece of brown 
paper. 



CHEAP AND VALUABLE LINIMENT FOR MAN 
OR BEAST. 

Beat up one egg, and add 1 wine-glass of 
Turpentine, 1 wine-glass Vinegar, and one 
wine-glass Whisky. Put in one after an- 
other as above. 



ft TUTHlLLi 

DOCTOR KITRIDGES 

KERVE AND BONE LINIMENT. 

Take beefs gall 1 qt. alcohol 1 pint \'ol- 
atile liniment 1 lb. extra, turpentine 1 ib., 
oil orriganum 4 oz., aqua ammonia 4 oz., 
tincture of cayenne 4- pint, oil of amber 3 oz., 
tincture of Spanish flies 6 oz., mixed well. 



Dr. SLOAN'S PIORSE LINIMENT. 

Resin 4 oz., bees wax 4 oz., lard 8 oz., 
honey 2 oz., melt and stir altogether over a 
slow fire and gently bring to a boil, as it 
begins to boil, slowly add f pint spirits tur- 
pentine stiring all the time, remove from 
fire, stir till cool ; good for horse flesh, hoof 
broken, galled back, cracked heels &c. &c. 

Nothing is better for burns, scalds, on 
human flesh. 



CURE FOR DYSENTERY. 

Take Laudanum 4- oz., tincture of Kino 
1 oz., Morphine 4 grains. Mix. Dose on« 
teaspoonful 3 or 4 times a day. 



SPRUCE BEER 

Oneoz. Spruce oil, one oz. oil Cloves, 
one oz. oil Sassafras, one oz. oil Winter- 
green, one pint alaohol with yea«t^ mol»sflt« 
»nd TrRt«r. 



KXCEIPT BOOK. tT 

TO MAKE GOOD VINEGAR 

IX THREE DAYS WITHOUT DRUGS. 

Take three casks, and place them upon 
each other on end. The centre cask must 
be filled with cobs or shavings which have 
been previously soaked in good sharp vine- 
gar, and air allowed to circulate through it 
by means of a few inch holes bored around 
the cask above the faucet which conducts 
the vinegar into the lower cask. A small 
opening must be left between the centre 
and top casks to permit the circulation of 
air. The bottom of the top cask must be 
pierced with small holes, having several 
bits of twine hanging from them, to con- 
duct the vinegar evenly upon the cobs in 
the centre barrel. 

When thus arranged take, if whisky is 
used, one gallon of whisky to every four 
gallons of water, and add -J- lb sugar. If 
cider is used put in one part cider and three 
parts water. To this add 1 pt. good yeast 
to each barrel vinegar, and have the the 
holes and twine so arranged that it will run 
through every 12 hours — returning the fluid 
to the top cask every night and morning, 
and in three days you will have good sub- 
stantial vinegar which vrill keep, and also 
improve by age. The cobs will serve for 
uae durino: the whole season. 



68 tuthtll's 

HOP YEAST. 

Boil a handful of hops in two quarts of 
water, till reduced to three pints, Then 
strain the liquor, and put it back in tliepot, 
and thicken it with a cup of wheat flour, 
previously mixed smooth with a Httle cold 
water. Let it boil three or four minutes, 
then mix it with about six medium-sized 
potatoes, that have just been boiled, peeled, 
and mashed ; let tlie whole stand until luke- 
warm, then strain it, and put to it a cup of 
good yeast, and set it where it will keep 
just lukewarm. When of a frothy appear- 
ance, add a table spoonful of salt. Turn it 
immediately into ajar, keep it covered up, 
and set it in a cool place. The potatoes 
may be omitted in making the yeast, but 
the yeast will not be so lively, nor the 
bread so delicate. Scald your yeast jar 
thoroughly, before putting in fresh yeast. 
If your yeast gets sour, on using it,put a tea 
spoonful of saleralus in, before mixing it 
with yoi^r bread. If it does not foam up 
well, it is too stale to use. This kind of 
yeast will keep well for a fortnight, excepting 
in quite hot weather. Yeast cakes are the 
best to use in summer, as they will keep 
well for a long time. 

This yeast vrill be found excellent to use 
in the various beer receipts. 



RECEIPT BOOK. 69 

WEIGHTS AND T^IEASURES. 

The following are established weip^hts 
of various ])roduce, and the rates by ^vhich 
they should be bought and sold : 

A bushel of wheat 60 pounds ; 
Shelled corn 56 lbs.; Corn on cob 70 lbs. ; 
Rye, 56 lbs. ; Oats, 35 lbs. ; 

Potatoes, 60 lbs. ; Beans, 60 lbs. ; 

Bran, 20 lbs. ; Clover seed, 62 lbs. ; 

Timothy seed 62 lbs.; Flaxseed, 56 lbs. ; 
Hemp seed 44 lbs. ; Buckwheat, 52 lbs. ; 
Blue-fjrassseed, 14lbs. Castor beans 46 lbs.; 
Dried peaches, 33 lbs. Dried apples, 24 lbs. ; 

UNEXPLOSIYE BURNING FLUID. 

Take one quart Alcohol, 4 oz. of Ether, 
ono half pint of refined Turpentine, Put 
them all into a jug or bottle together and 
shake up well. Let stand two or three days 
when it will be fit for use. 



DEAD SHOT FOR BEDBUGS. 

Corrosive sublimate, 1 oz. ; muriatic acid, 
1 ozs. ; water, 4 oz. Dissolve ; then add 
turpentine, 1 pint; decoction of tobacco, 1 
pint. Mix. For the decoction of tobaco, 
boil two oz. of tobacco in a pint of water. 
The mixture must be applied with a paint- 
brush. This •a'9«h i« p rlfiadlv poison. 



CONTENTS 



Beef, to sngar cure, 4 
Beef, pickle for corning,43 

Beef, a la mode, 43 

Bannock, 39 

Biscuit, drop, 23 

Butter scotch, London, 28 

Bread, niilk rising, 85 

Biscuit, soda, 36 

Butter, 54 

Burning fluid, 47 

Beer, Saluda, 53 

Balsam, Cheseman's 58 

Blacking, water proof, 61 

Beer, Spruce, 63 

Burns, to cure, 61 

Beer, Spruce, 67 

Bedbugs, dead shot, 70 

Burning fluid, 7o 
Cleansing and restoring 

Clothing, 3 
Cockroaches to destroy, 8 

Cucumbers, pickled, 15 

Charlott de ruse, 16 

Corn Oysters, 18 

Corns, to cure, 21 

Crullers, 23 

Crullers, common, 25 

Crackers, soda biscuit 37 

Cream for Coffee, 56 

Cologne, 61 

Cream nectar, Turkish, 60 

Cake, Fruit, 9 

Cake, black Plum^ 9 

Cake, Fancy, 



Cake, Cream, t 

Cake, common Tea, 9 

Cake, good Sponge, 10 

Cakes, Tea, 10 

Cake, Carolina, 10 

Cake, composition. 10 

Cake, fruit, 10 

Cake, corn, 11 

Cake, pound, 3 kinds, 11 

Cake, ginger. 11 

Cake, cider, 11 

Cake, white pound, 12 

Cake, Trov house corn, 13 

Cake, Delia's, 16 

Cake, sponge ginger, 19 

Cake, Queen's, 20 

Cakes, soda fried, 20 

Cake, drop, 22 

Cake, Portugal, 23 

Cake, cocoa-nut, 25 

Cakes, Lucy's rye, 29 

Cake, sugar, 30 

Cake, common pound, 30 

Cake, Queen's, 31 

Cake, Johnny, 37 

Cake, apple Johnny, 37 

Cakes, Buckwheat, US 

Cakes, corn griddle, 38 

Cakes, tomato griddle, 38 

Cakes, rich griddle, 39 

Cake, Willy's Indian, 39 

Cordial, ginger, 22 

Cream, lemon, 24 

Oordid diarrbes 81 



•^?fTI27T9, 



71 



Cider, Trithout apples, 62 Jelly, appl«>, 



Cholera medicines. 

Consumption, cure, 

Doughnuts, 

Doughnuts, 

Dysentery, cure for. 

Eggs, preserving '^ inter 

Eye water, 

Essences, 

Eggs, boiling, 

Eggs, to preserve, 

Eggs, scrambled. 

Floating Island, 

Fritters, 

Fritters, apple, 

Fritters, sweet, 

Figs, tomato. 

Gingerbread, soft. 

Ginger nuts, 2 kinds. 

Gingerbread, 

Ginger pop, Nos. 1 & 2 

Ginger wine. 

Gun Barrels, browning 

Ginger nuts, 



24 

6i Jelly, Chinese k honey, 26 
65 Jelly, calf's foot, 30 

17 Jelly, pine apple, 31 

20 Jellv, currant & raspb'rry 34 



Ketchup, tomato, 33 

Liniment, phcenix, 5 

46 Liniment, Samaritan, 7 

53 Liniment, Life, 7 

54 Liniment, 45 
59 Liniment, Excelsior, 60 
42 Liniment, Indian, 61 
41 Liniment, 65 

39 Liniment, Dr. Kitridge's 67 

40 Liniment, Dr. Sloan's 67 
40 Macaroons, 30 
32 Muffins, two kinds, 40 
19 Muffins, 25 
19 Mead, lemon, 27 
23 Oil, British, 55 
56 Olicooks, 20 
61 Omelette, 42 
58 Opedeldock, liquid, 24 
21 Pork, to keep sweet 



Hair tonic. Dr. "Wood's 27 Peaches, pickled. 



Honey, excellent, 

Honey, Java, 

Honey, 

Hard water, make soft, 

Hot drops. No. 6, 

Ink, indelible. 

Ink jet black writing. 

Icing for cakes, 

Jumbles, cocoanut. 

Jumbles, 

Jumbles, Sally's. 

Jelly, quiD<?e. 



14 

48 Pickles, ripe cucumber, 14 

49 Pickles, green tomato, 15 
49 Plums, to preserve, 33 
42 Painting, coach. 47 
63 Painting, inside house, 47 

5 Pain Killer, 62 

4 Physic, vegetable, 62 

25 Powder, Seidlitz, 62 

21 Pudding, plum, 12 

21 Pudding, transparent, 12 

23 Pudding, lemon, 18 

84 Pudding, pot*to. 1 • 



72 CONTENTS. 

Puddiug, Delia's plum, 18 Sausages, 22 

Pudding, orange, 19 Soap, French, 27 

Pudding, blue-stocking, 31 Shauipoon mixture, 57 

Pudding, corn meal, 31 Syrups, strawberry,etc., 60 

Pudding, sago, 41 Tincture, anti-spasm'c 22 

Pudding, without milk, 5-1 Tart, tomato, 84 

Pudding, Tapioca, 54 Tinctures, 51 

Pudding, green corn, 16 Tootliache cure, 66 

Pudding, black, 18 Vinegar, 57 

Pudding, suet, 16 Vinegar, to make, 68 

Plaster, rheumatic, 25 Varnish for pictures, 46 

Plums, to dry, 28 Weight and measure, 2 

Pie, lemon, 17 Weights and measures, 69 

Pie, mince, 17 Whitewash, for fences, 5 

Pie, custard, 17 Whitewash, 6 

Pic, lemon, 18 Washing liquid, 6 

Pie, tomato meat, 32 Washing fluid, 28 

Pie, minced, 44 WaiSes, hard, 24 

Ring Bone, to cure, 57 Waffles, 41 

Soap, spirit, 3 Wine, English dinner, 46 

Soap, Italian, 7 Washing Fluid, 62 

Soap, superior washing,29 Wine, Raisin, 63 

Syrup, soda, 29 Wines, various, 69 

Syrup, cough, 45 Wines, Blackberry, &c. 59 

Salve, Green Mountain,48 Warts, & corns, cure, 84 

Salve, chapped hands, 57 Waffles, dutch, 18 

Soda drinks, 63 Yeast, 68 

Soda syrups, 55 Yeast, hop, 68 
Salve, iip, 26 



ERRATA. 

Page 2, eighth line from bottom, read "16" instead of 
"3 tablespoonfols." 



LIBRARY Ot- UUiNoni^oo 




014 184 248 1 # 



