it / 



\i 



< 



FRANOATELLI'S OOOIT. 

THE MODERN COOK; 

A 

PRACTICAL GUIDE TO THE CULINARY ART 

IN 

ALL ITS BRANCHES, 



COMPRISING, 



IN ADDITION TO ENGLISH COOKERY, THE MOST APPROVED- AND RECHERCHE 
SYSTEMS OP PRENCH, ITALIAN, AND GERMAN COOKERY; 



ADAPTED AS WELL FOR THE LARGEST ESTABLISHMENTS AS 
FOR THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. 

EX libris REV.BABDOU. 

By CHARLES ELME FRANCATELLI, 

PUPIL TO THE CELEBRATED CAEEME, 
AND LATE MAITRE-D'HOTEL AND CHIEF COOK TO HER MAJESTT THE QUEEN. 



FROM THE 

NINTH LONDON EDITION, 

CAREFULLY REVISED AND CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. 



WITH SIXTY-TWO ILLUSTRATIONS 



Neio ©rleart0: 

THOMAS L. WHITE, 106 CANAL STREET. 

PKIOE THIREE DOLLARS, 

1859. 






TO 



THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF ERROL. 



My Lord, 

The honor conferred on me in being permitted to dedicate the 
following pages to your Lordship, presents an opportunity, of which I 
gladly avail myself, to express publicly my grateful acknowledgments 
for the liberal encouragement and uniform kindness I have ever ex- 
perienced, since I had the good fortune to come under your Lord- 
ship's notice. 

If my anxious endeavor to produce a useful treatise on the art I 
profess, worthy of public favor and of the distinguished patronage I 
have received, shall be successful, the satisfaction this will give me 
will ever be associated with a grateful recollection of the many facili- 
ties afforded me for acquiring additional practical knowledge and ex- 
perience,, while in Her Majesty's service as Chief Cook and Maitre- 
d'Hotel, in which office I had the advantage to act under the liberal 
and judicious directions of your Lordship, when Lord Steward of the 
Household. 

I have the honor to be, 
My Lord, 
"With the greatest respect, 
Your Lordship's most obedient and very humble servant, 
Charles Elme Francatelli. 
\ (19) 



I 



/ 



PREFACE TO THE NINTH EDITION. 



In introducing the present Edition of The Modern Cook to 
the public, I beg to return my thanks for the patronage that has 
been awarded to former Editions, by the public at large, as 
well as by the profession, of whose approbation I feel most 
proud. Indeed, I am so conscious of the value of the good 
opinion of these competent judges, that I do not hesitate to 
ascribe the steady demand with which the Work has hitherto 
been favored to their liberal support. 

So gratifying an appreciation of my endeavors • has naturally 
prompted me to render the present Edition in all respects worthy 
of a continuance of their patronage. I have in all cases most 
strictly studied economy, — by retrenching, as far as it appeared 
to me consistent with propriety, all unnecessary and too expensive 
accessories to the more costly kinds of dishes. The whole work 
has been entirely revised with scrupulous care and attention ; 
and upwards of eighty entirely new dishes, principally belonging 
to the Second Course department, have been added. I have 
also enlarged the glossary of technical terms : — and, in order to 
render the Work of easier reference to the public, as well as to 
the practitioner, no trouble has been spared to improve the 
Index. 

I have nearly doubled the original number of Bills of Fare ; 
and have added many of dinners served to Her Majesty the 
Queen. 

(21) 



22 PREFACE, 

And now, generous and gentle patrons, I once more respect- 
fully take my leave of you for a while ; and to you, Gentlemen 
of the Public Press, I beg to return my most sincere thanks for 
the handsome and kindly manner in which you noticed my 
earnest efforts to assist my English brethren to outrival their 
hitherto successful foreign competitors for fame in the Culinary 
Art. 

But T should not do justice to my own feelings if I omitted 
on this occasion to offer my special thanks to the Author of the 
admirable little work, entitled " The Art' of Dining, or Gastro- 
nomy and Gastronomers," for the very flattering terms in which 
he has spoken of my professional labors. 

C. E. FKANCATELLI. 



y 



/ 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. 



In his present undertaking, the Author's object has been to pro- 
duce a treatise which may be useful, not only to cooks themselves, but 
also to those who employ them. He has, accordingly, been as sparing 
as possible of the use of technical terms, and has endeavored, at the 
same time, to be concise as well as explicit in his directions. 

Judicious economy being at all times a great desideratum, the 
Author has studied to apply its practice in the composition of every 
recipe contained in his book. Many dishes are obviously expensive, 
and can only be indulged in by the wealthy epicure ;— but even here, 
the cost may be reduced by avoiding waste, and by turning to account 
ingredients carefully reserved for the purpose by the aid of foresight 
and economical habits. In large establishments, when properly con- 
ducted, there is, indeed, less relative waste than in the kitchen of a 
small private family, under the management of an ordinary cook. 

It is necessary to remark, that throughout this work, the Author 
has supposed the various dishes and preparations are required to be 
made for a large number of guests, with the usual resources at hand 
in a well-appointed kitchen ; perfection and economy can only be fully 
attained under such circumstances. The variety and quantity of the 
ingredients recommended to be used will probably often appear lavish, 
therefere, to those whose culinary practice is limited, and who are, 
nevertheless, desirous of combining comparative success with moderate 
means. 

For persons so situated, when desirous of indulging occasionally in 
dishes of a sumptuous character, no written directions would probably 
suffice;, the only sure method in such cases is to resort to professional 
aid. But, in the majority of instances, the Author's instructions will 
be found generally practicable ; common sense, aided by some experience, 
will suggest the employment of available substitutes, when costly sauces 
and other recherche preparations are directed to be used. 

(23) 



24 PREFACE. 

Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other 
arts : the Author, therefore, particularly cautions the inexperienced 
practitioner from attempting too much. Excess in the quantity and 
variety of spices and condiments — the bane of English cookery — is 
especially to be guarded against. Nothing vitiates the palate more 
than a superabundant use of such stimulants. In the preparation of 
soups and sauces, this rule must be constantly borne in mind. 

In a treatise professing to treat of cookery as an art, by which re- 
fined taste is to be gratified rather than a coarse appetite satisfied, it 
would be out of place to attempt to translate its rules into the hack- 
neyed terms employed in "Guides" and "Oracles" for economical 
makeshifts. 

Such attempts, too frequently made by English writers on gas- 
tronomy, at once betray their origin. The greater part of these au- 
thorities are persons who, having neither studied the rudiments nor 
practised the art to any extent, take upon themselves to instruct the 
public, not from the fulness of their knowledge, but either as a pecu- 
niary resource, or to gratify an idle whim. Need it be wondered at, 
while we possess in England a greater abundance of all kinds of food, 
generally of far better quality than is to be found elsewhere, that our 
cookery, in theory and practice, has become a by- word of ridicule, and 
that we should be compelled to have recourse to foreigners, ignorant 
for the most part of our tastes and habits, to prepare our feasts ? 
" They manage these things better in. France :" cookery is there con- 
sidered as an important art, and its successful endeavors are regarded 
with a due appreciation. In Paris its great professors have achieved 
an almost historical celebrity, and their school of cookery has become 
pre-eminent. This can only be attributed to their assiduous study of 
its elementary principles, which, when properly understood, will be 
fouud to conjoin the highest enjoyment with due attention to the 
preservation of health. 

The palate is as capable and neai'ly as worthy of education as the 
eye and ear. 

A large proportion of the dishes contained in this work are quite 
new to the public, not merely as regards their names, but as respects 
their composition. This will be found to be the case, particularly with 
the soups, dressed Fish, Removes, Entrees, Hors-d'oeuvres, and dressed 
Vegetables. The second course, moreover, is treated at greater 



PREFACE. 25 

length, and with more care than has hitherto been the case in English 
Cookery Books. 

A copious and varied collection of Bills of Fare, adapted to every 
season of the year, has been added as an essential accompaniment to 
the work. In connection with this subject, the Author ventures to 
offer a few suggestions for the consideration of Epicures.. 

In the first place, the English custom of dividing a grand dinner 
into several courses is an error quite at variance with common sense 
and convenience. It is a needless complication that necessarily leads 
to useless profusion, and much additional trouble. Our neighbors 
across the Channel — the best authorities in all gastronomic questions 
— allow of two courses only in the largest dinners. With them, Fish 
and Hors-d'oeuvres, — such as patties, croquettes, &c, form part of the 
First Course, and not a distinct course, as they are considered east of 
Temple Bar. The French, too, regard the dessert as a mere delasse- 
ment after dinner, intended rather to propitiate than to thwart 
digestion. 

The great and increasing intercourse between this country and the 
Continent, as well as the probable relaxation of the duty on foreign 
wines, will tend naturally to extend our use of many kinds especially 
appropriate to the dinner-table. On this head, the Author, without 
pretending to give any elaborate or detailed instructions respecting 
the service of wines at dinner, cannot refrain from alluding to an 
injudicious habit, frequently adopted at English tables — that of in- 
troducing sweet Champagne in the First Course. This wine, from its 
sweetness, naturally counteracts the flavor of savory dishes — there 
is a mutual repulsion between them. Madeira, Sherry, and Burgundy 
are better suited to the First Course ; their stimulating and generous 
qualities tending considerably to assist digestion. In France, sweet 
Champagne is not introduced until the latter part of the Second 
Course : by that time, the palate has become more fit to appreciate 
the delicate bouquet of this delicious and exhilarating beverage. 

The Author begs further to add, that the ordinary practice in Lon- 
don of servi ig Turtle and Venison indiscriminately, as mere acces- 
sories to recherche dinners, is, in his opinion, most injudicious. Turtle 
and Venison being generally reckoned by us as the best of good cheer, 
it follows that when they form part of a dinner, the Removes and 
Entrees are comparatively neglected. Very light Entrees should only 
be served with these ; and on such occasions, indeed it would be 
\ 



i 



26 PREFACE. 

preferable to arrange the dinner in the Russian fashion — placing the 
dessert upon the table at first, while the whole of the dinner is served 
from the side tables. By this means, two advantages are gained : a 
less number of dishes are required — especially in the First Course ; and 
the dinner has a better chance of being served hot — an indispensable 
requisite to its due enjoyment. In pursuance of this recommendation, 
a series of Bills of Fare, after the Russian mode, has been included 
with the others. 

A copious Index, together with a Glossary of French terms, will, it 
is hoped, augment the utility of the work. 

The Author hopes he shall be excused for alluding to himself, and 
his pretensions for writing a book of this kind. Although bearing 
a foreign name, he is happy in being an Englishman. He received 
his professional education in Paris, and acquired a knowledge of his 
art in some of the most celebrated cuisines of that capital, and was so 
fortunate as to become a pupil of the renowned Careme. Qualified 
under such favorable auspices, he has subsequently served — he hopes 
with satisfaction to his patrons — some of the most distinguished bons 
mvants among the British aristocracy and gentry. He has had the 
good fortune to be Chef-de-cuisine to the Earl of Chesterfield ; Lord 
Kinnaird ; and to Sir W. Massey Stanley, Bart., and Rowland Erring- 
ton, Esq., at Melton Mowbray ; and he shall ever consider it the great- 
est honor to which he could aspire, to have served as Chief Cook and 
Maitre-d'Hotel to Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen. 









i 



t 






f 



CONTENTS. 



Glossary. 

Common Stock and Stock Sauces. 

Grand Sauces : Espagnole, Veloute, Bechamel, and Allemande. 

Special Sauces. 

Cold Sauces. 

Purees of Vegetables for garnishing. 

Vegetable Garnishes. 

Essences, Gravies, and prepared Savory Butters for finishing Sauces. 

Ragouts and Garnishes in general. 

Broths and Consommes. 

Medicinal Do. 

Braizes, Poeles, Mirepoix, Marinades, and Roux. 

Quenelle Forcemeats. 

Clear Consomme Soups. 

Purees of Vegetables for Sonps. 

Soups made with Rice or Pearl-barley. 

Bisques of Crayfish, and other Shellfish Soups. 

Fish Soups and Water-souchets. 

English Soups. 

Foreign National Soups. 

Italian Soups. 

Panadas and light Soups for Infants, &c. 

Dressed Fish. 

Removes— Beef. Veal. Lamb. Calves'-heads. Ox-cheek. Pork and 
Sucking pig. Braized Hams. Venison, Red-deer &c Turkeys and 
Capons. Chickens, Goose and Cygnets. Pheasants. Partridges Meat- 
pies. Meat-puddings. Black Game and Grouse. 

Entrees — Pates chauds, or raised Pies. Vol-au-vents and Tourtes. Tim- 
bales. Macaroni and Casseroles. Ornamental borders of Potato-paste. 
Chartreuses of Vegetables. Forcemeat Chartreuses. Ornamental 
croustades, Turbans and Mazarines. Beef. Ox-cheek dressed. Ox- 
palates. Ox-piths. Ox-tongues. Mutton. Mutton Cutlets. Scollops. 
Carbonades. Fillets. Sheep's Tongues. Sheep's Heads and Kidneys. 
Veal. Fricandeaux. Noix, &c. Heart and throat Sweetbreads. Calf's- 
ears, feet, liver, and brains. Lamb. Lamb's-head, ears, and feet. 
Pork. Venison, Roebuck, and Poultry. Quenelle forcemeat of Fowl. 

(21) 



28 CONTENTS. 

Pigeons and Ducklings, Quails. Larks. Rabbits. Hares. Pheasants. 
Partridges. Boudins, Quenelles, and Soufflees of Partridges. Wood- 
cocks and Snipes. Wild-fowl. Ortolans and Wheatears. Dressed fish. 

Second Course Roast* — Game, Poultry, Wild-fowl, &c. 

Vegetables for Entremets. 

Entremets of Eggs, Macaroni, &c. 

Cold Entrees for Ball Suppers, &c. 

Cold Raised Pies and Preserved Game. 

Different kinds of Paste. 

vol-au-vent and tourte cases. 

Croustade and Timbale Cases. 

Cakes in General. 

Small Pastry. 

Fritters. 

Iced Puddings and Ornamented Entremets. 

tlmbales and cakes of macaroni, nouilles, &c. 

Souffles. 

Puddings. 

Jellies. 

Creams. 

Mincemeats. 

Bills of Fare. 

Index. 



f 



f 



GLOSSARY. 



Alt.emanhe. Reduced or concentrated white veloute Sauce, thickened with 
cream and yolks of eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon-juice. 

Angelica is a plant, the tender tubular branches of which, after being pre- 
served in syrup, are used for the purpose of decorating entremets, &e. 

Baba, a kind of very light plum-cake. 

Bechamel is velottte Sauce boiled down with cream in equal parts. This 
Sauce takes its name from a celebrated cook. 

Bisque. A Soup generally made with shell-fish. 

Blanch. To parboil : to scald vegetables, &c, in order to remove their 
hulls or skins, such as almonds, &c. 

Boudix. A delicate kind of eutree. prepared with quenelle force-meat or mince. 

Bouquet (garnished), or faggot, consists of a handful of parsley, six green 
onions, a small bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, neatly tied together with. 
twine. 

Bkaize, mirepoix, marinade, poele, blanc, are various kinds of compounds 
used for imparting flavor to braized meats ; and also for keeping Calves'- 
Heads, Poultry, &c, white, while they are being braized. 

Braizing signifies a slow process of simmering or stewing over a smothered 
charcoal-fire. 

Brioche. A species of light spongy cake, resembling Bath-buns. 

Caramel. Burnt sugar, occasionally used as a make-shift for coloring. 

Charlotte consists generally of vei-y thin slices of bread, steeped in clari- 
fied butter, and placed in symmetrical order in a plain mould garnished 
with fruit or preserve. 

Chartreuse of Vegetables. A mixed preparation, consisting of vegetables 
symmetrically and tastefully arranged in a plain mould, the interior of 
which is garnished with either game, quails, pigeons, larks, fillets, scollops, 
tendons, \c. 

Chartreuse a la Parisienxe, &c. An ornamental entree or side-dish, com- 
posed chiefly of quenelle force-meat ; the interior being garnished with 
ragouts, scollops, Ace. 

Compote generally means confectioned fruits, preserved in syrup, or apple 
and any other kind of fruit jelly ; this word is also used to designate cer- 
tain savory dishes, prepared with pigeons, quails, or larks, mixed with 
peas, or mushrooms, &c. 

Consomme. Clear strong broth, much used in the preparation of Soups, 
Sauces, &c. 

Coxtise. When small scollops of truffles, red tongue. &c., are inlaid, as 
ornaments, by incision in fillets of any kind, they are said to be conti.u'x. 

Croquettes and Rissolks. A preparation of mince, with a bread-crumbed 
coating. These words both signify something crisp. 

Croquantes. A bright mixture of fruit ami boiled sugar. 

Ciioustadks. Pates-chacds, Tourtes, Timbales, Casseroles of Rice. Various 
ornamental pie-cases, made either of paste or prepared rice. 

(29) 



30 GLOSSARY. 

Croutons. Sippets of bread of various sizes and shapes, fried in clarified 
butter, and used to garnish salmis, fricassees, dressed vegetables, &c. ; they 
are also served with certain Soups, chiefly with purees. 

Cold Entries. These consist of fricassees, salmis, cutlets, ham, tongue, fillets 
of game, poultry, and fish, aspics, salads of poultry, fish, or shell-fish ; 
Boars '-heads, potted meats, &c. They are appropriate for ball suppers, 
public breakfasts, and upon all occasions where a cold collation is served. 

Entrees. A conventional term for Side-Dishes, comprising cutlets, fricas- 
sees fricandeaux, fillets, scollops, salmis, boudins, sweetbreads, pdte's-chauds, 
chartreuses, &c. 

Extremets, or second-course side-dishes, consist of four distinct sorts, 
namely, cold entries; dressed vegetables ; scolloped shell-fish and dressed 
eggs ; and lastly of the infinitely varied class of sweets, consisting of pud- 
dings, gateaux timbales, sweet croquettes, charlottes, croquantes, pastries, jellies, 
creams, fritters, &c. 

Espagnole and Veloute. The two main Sauces from which all others are 
made ; the first is brown and the other white. 

Faxciioxettes and Florentines. Varieties of small pastry meringued over. 

Farce. Is a coarse kind of forcemeat used for raised pies and gratins. 

Flans, Darioles, and Mirlitons. Varieties of French cheese-cakes. 

Fricandeau and Grenadixs consist of the primest parts of veal, or fillets of 
poultry, &c, smoothly trimmed, larded, and brightly glazed with a con- 
centration of their own liquor ; they are served as side-dishes. 

Fricassee consists of chickens cut in pieces, and prepared in a white sauce, 
with truffles, mushrooms, cocksy-combs, &c, as accessories 

Gauffres. A light spungy sort of biscuit. 

Glace. Any thing iced. This word is also sometimes used figuratively, by 
French cooks, to signify a smooth glossy surface. 

Gratins. A term applied to consolidated soups and sauces ; also to certain 
dishes of high character, consisting of game, poultry, fish, vegetables, or 
macaroni, &c, improved by great care and finish, through the use of con- 
centrated sauces or gravies. 

Hors-d'oeuvres ("Hot). A species of very light entries, such as patties of all 
kinds, rissoles, croquettes, scolloped fish, shell-fish, macaroni, poultry, game, 
sweetbreads, brains, ox-piths, horh/s of fish, poultry, or game, &c. 

Hors-d'oeuvres (Cold). These should be eaten immediately after the soup 

• and fish ; they are considered as appetisers, or whets to the appetite, and 
consist of sardines, anchovies, tunny, Dutch herrings, savory butters, 
oysters, oiled salads. 

Jardiniere. A mixed preparation of vegetables, stewed down in their own 
sauce. 

Luting. A paste made of flour and water, and used for fastening the lids on 
to fire-pans when preserving game, &c, in order to prevent evaporation. 

Macedoine of vegetables is a jardiniere, with the addition of some kind of 
white sauce. 

Macedoine of fruit. A kind of jelly. 

Madeline. Resembling queen-cake. 

Matelotte, a dish of mixed fresh-water fish, sometimes of one kind only, as 

Eels. 

Meringues. A kind of light trifle. 

Mignionnette Pepper, A preparation from either white or black pepper- 
corns ; which, after being broken, chopped, or ground coarse, so as to re- 
semble mignionnette seed, should be sifted in order to remove the dust. 

Nougat. A mixture of almonds and sugar. 

Nouilles. A kind of vermicelli. 

Paner, to bread crumb. 



GLOSSARY. 31 

Paxure. Culets, scollops, croquettes, or any other entrie that is bread-crumbed. 

Piping. A kind of decoration made of icing used for ornamenting cakes. 
pastry stands, small pastry, &c. : it is thus effected : — Take a short funnel 
or conically-shaped instrument of tin, and insert the same within a larger- 
sized and similarly-shaped paper funnel or cornet, the pointed end of which 
must be cut off so as to allow the tin instrument to protrude : place the 
icing or glazing (a mixture of finely-pounded sugar and white of egg 
worked into a smooth and firm paste) in the cornet or forcer, the upper 
part of which must be completely closed ; the glazing is then forced out 
at the point by pressure of the thumb on the upper part of the cornet. 

Pluciie, or plushe, the leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, or sorrel, 
snipped or cut small ; these are used, mixed or separately, according to 
directions. 

Peofitkolles. A light kind of pastry, creamed inside. 

Puree. A kind of pulpy maceration of roasted meats, and of vegetables, or 
fruits, finished by being passed through a tammy or sieve. 

Quenelle. A delicate sort of forcemeat, used in the preparation of entrees, &c. 

Ragout. A rich compound, consisting of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, fat 
livers, &c, mixed in a rich sauce, and used for garnishing highly-finished 
removes and entries. 

Releves ok Removes. The top and bottom dishes (as they are designated 
in England), serve to replace the soup and fish on ordinary tables. These 
usually consist of roast joints, turkeys, capons, highly or plain dressed 
fillets, or rolls, &c, of beef, calves'-heads, &c. 

Roux. A mixture of fresh butter and flour, which, after being baked, is used 
for thickening^ sauces. 

Salmis. A highly-finished hash, made with game or wild-fowl, cut up and 
prepared in either a rich gravy or sauce. 

Saute. Cutlets, scollops of game, poultry, or fish, &c, lightly fried in butter. 

Souffles. The word souffle' means strictly something puffed up, and is gen- 
erally applied to a light kind of pudding, served as a remove to second- 
course roasts ; it is made with any kind of farinaceous substance, and may 
be flavored either with fruits, liqueurs, or essences. 

Trifle, a second-course dish, composed of sponge-cake, macaroons, fruit- 
jams, custard, whipped cream, brandy, and other liqueurs. 

Turbans and Mazarines. Ornamental entries, made of forcemeats, and fillets 
of either game, poultry, or fish. 

Vol-au-vent. A figurative expression applied to puff-paste of the lightest 
kind. 



m 



/ 



FRANCATELLFS MODERN COOK. 



COMMON STOCK AND STOCK SAUCES. 



1. COMMON STOCK, OR GRAND STOCK FOR GENERAL PURPOSES. 

When about to prepare for the reception of company, it is advis- 
able to begin, if there be sufficient time, two days beforehand in 
summer, or three days in winter, by getting ready the grand stock — 
an article so essential to all the after preparations, that it may be looked 
upon as the basis of operations. 

The meat required for this purpose should be sent in the over night 
if possible. The quantity to be ordered, must of course depend upon 
the extent of the dinner-party, and the number of entrees. For a 
dinner of twelve entrees, two legs of white veal (about forty pounds 
weight), the same quantity of gravy beef, and forty pounds of leg of 
beef and knuckles of veal, would be required. 

First take the legs of veal in hand, and cut out the noix or 
fricandeau pieces, which is that part adhering to the udder ; set 
these pieces apart to be used either for fricandeaux, grenadins, or 
noix, for removes or entrees, as the case may be. Cut all the meat 
away from the bones, keeping the veal separate from the beef. 
Break up the bones, and put them, — together with the inferior pieces 
of beef, — into a large stock-pot half full ; fill this up with cold water, 
set it on the fire to boil ; skim it well, garnish it with carrots, turnips, 
celery, and leeks ; avoid the use of spices or herbs, and use salt spar- 
ingly. When the broth has boiled gently for seven hours, strain it 
through a broth napkin into large kitchen basins to cool, and place 
them in the larder for the next day's use. 

In connection with this subject, I will now describe the preparation 
of the two grand stock sauces, Espagnole and Veloute, as these, being 
the basis of the various special sauces used in modern cookery, should, 
together with the grand stock, be first attended to. 

2. STOCK SAUCES, BROWN AND WHITE* 

The first thing to be attended to on the following morning is to 
" mark off," or prepare the stock sauces, viz. : the Espagnole or brown 
sauce, and the Veloute or white sauce, in the following manner : 

Take two large stewpans, well tinned and thoroughly clean ; spread 

* Although great care and watchful attention are requisite in every branch of the 
culinary art, the exercise of these qualities is most essential in the preparation of the 
grand stock sauces. If the first process which these undergo be not successfully effected, 
no subsequent care will remedy the mischief. 

2 . (33) 



34 STOCK SAUCES. 

the bottom of each with fresh butter, over which lay about one 
pound of lean ham cut in slices ; then add the finest pieces of the 
veal in equal proportion to each stewpan. In that intended to be 
used for the brown sauce put two or three whole wild rabbits (or the 
mere carcasses may suffice) ; put into the stewpan marked for the 
white sauce, two old hens, or carcasses of fowls. Pour into each pan 
a sufficient quantity of grand stock to reach the upper surface of the 
veal ; place the pans with their covers on, on brisk fires, and let thein 
boil sharply till the broth is nearly reduced to a glaze ; then take them 
off the fire immediately, and slacken the stoves, by putting on some 
charcoal ashes to decrease their heat ; after which, replace the pans on 
the fire, adding to the brown sauce, one pound of glaze, to be reduced 
together with the stock, by which it will acquire a redder hue ; it will 
also accelerate its progress, — a point of great importance ; for if sauces 
or broths remain too long on the fire, the delicacy of their flavor is sure 
to be impaired. 

As soon as the broth of the white sauce is reduced to the con- 
sistency of pale glaze,* fill it up with some grand stock ; garnish it 
with a good-sized carrot, one onion, four cloves, a blade of mace, 
and a garnished fagot or bouquet, made of parsley, green onions, 
a bay-leaf, and thyme, tied together neatly. Set it on the stove to 
boil ; skim it well, and then place it to simmer gently at the side of 
the stove. Pay strict attention to the brown sauce, in order to pre- 
vent the possibility of its being caught by the fire in the least degree. 
Such an accident always tends to lessen its unctuousness. Ascertain 
when the brown sauce is sufficiently glazed, by dipping the end of a 
knife into it, twirling the handle round in the hand, so as to take up a 
quantity of the glaze on the point of the blade ; if you can then roll it 
into a ball without its sticking to the fingers, and it is of a beautiful 
brown -red color, you may proceed to fill it up in exactly the same 
manner as described for the white sauce. 

About two hours after the above-mentioned operations have been 
attended to, pass the broths through napkins into large kitchen 
basins. Then pour the roux or thickening into the large stewpans 
to be used for mixing each of these sauces ; take off all the fat, and 
pour the brown broth upon the brown roux, and the white broth 
upon the white rovx. While the sauces are being mixed they should 
be well stirred. When thoroughly mixed, they must be kept suffi- 
ciently liquid to enable them (after boiling on the stove-fire, and while 
they are simmering on the side) to throw up the whole of the butter 
with which the roux was made, together with the skum, by which 
means they assume a velvety appearance, and from which the white 
sauce takes its name Veloute. 

Finally, add a large ladleful of white chicken broth to the white 
sauce, and the same quantity of consomme to the brown sauce ; let 
them clarify for about twenty minutes longer; and then, if sufficiently 
reduced, pass them through the tammy cloths into white basins, and 
put them away in the larder for future use. 

* When time presses, or tbe veal used- for this purpose is not white, the process of 
boiling down to a glaze recommended above, may be dispensed with ; and, consequently, 
the white broth or water added at once. 



35 



SAUCES IN GENERAL. 



GRAND SAUCES. 



COMPRISING 



Espagnole,* or Brown Sauce. Cream Bichamel. 

Velouti,* or White Sauce. Alhmande Sauce. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

3. ESPAGNOLE, OR BROWiN" SAUCE. 

Let the stock Espagnole (No. 2) be turned out into a large stew- 
pan, adding thereto some essence of mushrooms, and sufficient blond 
of vea] to enable the sauce to clarify itself ; stir it over the fire till it 
boils, and then set it down- by the side to continue boiling gently. 
When the sauce has thoroughly cleared itself, by gentle ebullition, and 
assumes a bright velvety smoothness, reduce it over a brisk fire, to the 
desired consistency, and then pass it through a tammy for use. 

4. WHITE VELOUTE SAUCE. 

To finish this sauce, proceed in every respect the same as for the 
Espagnole, substituting white consomme of veal or fowls, for the blond 
of veal, in order to clarify it; and the essence of mushrooms must be 
white, in order to prevent the sauce from taking a dark hue, contrary 
to its special character. 

5. BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Divide the Veloute sauce (according to the quantity required) into 
three parts ; put one-third into a stewpan, and having reduced it, add 
thereto a quart (more or less) of boiling cream : — after allowing the 
sauce to boil a few minutes longer, stirring it the whole time, pass it 
through the tammy into a basin, or bain-marie,^ for use. 

6. CREAM BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Put six ounces of fresh butter into a middle-sized stewpan ; add 
four ounces of sifted flour, some nutmeg, a few peppercorns, and a 
little salt ; knead the whole well together ; then cut one carrot and one 
onion into very thin slices, throw them into the stewpan, and also a 
bouquet of parsley, thyme, and half a bay-leaf, tied together ; next 
moisten these with a quart of white broth and a pint of cream ; and 
having stirred the sauce over the stove-fire for about half an hour, pass 
it through the tammy into a basin for use. 

This sauce is not expensive, neither does it require much time 
or trouble to make. It is very useful as a substitute for Veloute, or 
other white sauces, as also for many other purposes, as will be shown 
hereafter. 

* These two grand sauces differ from the stock Espagnole and Veloute, in being 
worked or finished sauces. 

f This is a French term for a distinct set of copper saucepans, tinned both inside and 
outside, and used only for the Special Sauces, when finished. 






36 



SAUCES. 



7. ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Reduce the quantity of white Veloute sauce intended for the AUe- 
mande, over a brisk stove-fire, adding a little essence of mushrooms 
or some mushroom trimmings ; when the sauce is sufficiently reduced, 
take it oif the stove, and incorporate with it a leason* of yelks of eggs 
(in the proportion of four yelks to a pint), a little nutmeg, cream, a 
pat of butter, and a little lemon-juice ; set the leason in the sauce, by 
stirring it over the fire until it simmers ; it must then be quickly 
stirred to keep the sauce from boiling, as, in that case, the yelks of 
eggs would be liable to curdle, which would considerably deteriorate 
from its quality. When the leason is set, pass the sauce through a 
tammy into a basin, or bain-mane, for use. 

This sauce is in much request, as the foundation of many others, 
especially fish sauces. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 



COMPRISING 



^ 



Financilre Sauce. 
Turtle do. 
Salmis do. 
Do. d I'aneienne. 
Brown Italian Sauce. 
White Italian do. 
Fine Herbs do. 
Pascaline do. 
D' Uxellea do. 
Poor-man's do. 
Piquante do. 
Gherkin do. 
White liavigotte do. 
Green do. do. 
Tomata do. 
PSrigueitx do. 
Lyonnaise do. 
Provencale do, 
Venetian do. 
Bretonne do. 
Bouryuignotte do. 
Poivrade do. 
GSnoise do. 
Matelotte do. 
Norman matelotle do. 
Bigarrade do. 
Aromatic do. 
Russian do. 
Atelets do. 
Polish do. 
Butter do. 

Sauce for asparagus. 
Anchovy Sauce. 
Plain lobster do. 
Shrimp do. 
Supreme do. 
Do. of Game. 



Aurora Sauce. 

Dutch do. 

Maitre d'hdtel do. 

Do. cold. 

Princess Sauce. 

Albert do. 

Indian curry do. 

Cardinal do. 

Regency do. 

White oyster do. 

Brown oyster do. 

Muscle do. 

Shrimp do. 

Crayfish do. 

Lobster do. 

Sturgeon do. 

Bordelaise do. 

Gasconne do. 

Richelieu do. 

Robert do. 

Claremont do. 

Portuguese do. 

Sicilian do. 

German sweet do. 

Cherry do. 

Napolitain do. 

Cherry do., d la Victoria. 

Red currant jelly Sauce for Venison. 

Black currant jelly Sauce for Venison. 

Fennel Sauce. 

Parsley do. 

Ravigotte do. 

Plain Dutch do 

Bread do. 

Fried bread do. 

Brown gravy Sauce for roast veal. 

Cream Sauce for roast neck of do. 



* From the French liaison, which here means a binding or tLickening. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 37 

Parisian Sauce. Caper Sauce for fish. 

Mustard do. Do. for boiled mutton. 

Plain curry do. Cream Sauce for salt fish. 

Wastre/ische do. Orleans Sauce. 

Flemish do. Devil's do. 
Egg do. 

8. FINANCIERE SAUCE. 

Put one glass of sherry or madeira into a stewpan with some 
essence of truffles and a little cayenne ; reduce these to half their 
original quantity, then add a ladleful of finished Espagnole sauce ; 
let it boil for five minutes longer, and pass the sauce through a tammy 
into a bain-marie for use. 

9. TURTLE SAUCE FOR CALF'S HEAD. 

Put one glass of madeira into a stewpan with a spoonful of red 
tomata sauce, and a little cayenne ; reduce these to half their quantity, 
then add a ladleful of Espagnole or brown sauce, and some esseuce 
of mushrooms ; having stirred this over the fire until it boils, set it by 
the side to clarify ; skim it thoroughly, and reduce it to a proper con- 
sistency ; pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie ; and just before 
using this sauce, mix in two anchovies (that have been pounded with 
a very small piece of fresh butter, and passed through a tammy) with 
a little lemon-juice. 

10. SALMIS SAUCE. 

Place the trimmings of the birds of which the salmis is to be 
made, in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of salad-oil, four shalots, one 
bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; pass these on the stove-fire for five 
minutes ; add two glasses of any sort of good white wine ; reduce 
this to half its quantity, add a ladleful of Espagnole and some mush- 
room trimmings or essence ; set the sauce to boil, and then put it by 
the side of the stove to clarify. Having well skimmed it, pass the 
sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, pouring a small portion of 
the sauce ou the members of the birds to keep them moist, and to warm 
them in. 

11. SALMIS SAUCE A L'ANCIENNE. 

Chop off the trimmings of the birds that have been roasted for an 
entree (woodcocks or snipes are generally chosen for this purpose) ; 
place the trimmings in a stewpan, with six shalots, a little thyme, a 
bay-leaf, and half a bottle of red wine (claret is preferable) ; simmer 
these over the fire for ten minutes, add a ladleful of essence of game, 
and a gravy-spoonful of reduced Espagnole sauce ; stir this on the fire 
until it boils, and then place it by the fire to clear itself; ten minutes 
after, skim it thoroughly, and having reduced it to the consistency of 
a thin glaze, pass it through a tammy on to the members of the 
birds. Just before dishing up, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley. 

12. BROWN ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Chop four shalots very fine, place them in a corner of a clean 
napkin, securing them tightly, and immerse them in cold water to 



38 SAUCES. 

extract their acrid taste ; squeeze out the water and put them into a 
stewpau with a handful of white mushrooms chopped very fine, some 
thyme, a bay-leaf, and a tablespoonful of salad-oil ; pass these on the 
fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white wine, and, when this is 
reduced to half its quantity, then add a small ladleful of finished 
Espagnole and a little blond of veal ; set the sauce to boil ; and hav- 
ing freed it from the oil, take out the thyme and bay-leaf; reduce it to 
the consistency of other sauces, and pour it into a bain-mane, to be 
kept for use. 

13. WHITE ITALIAN SAUCE. 

The preparation of this sauce differs from the preceding only in 
substituting Veloute sauce for Espagnole. 

11. FINE HERBS' SAUCE. 

Chop, separately, a large gravy-spoonful of prepared white mush- 
rooms, three shalots, and a handful of parsley ; place these in a stew- 
pan with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of minionette pepper, a 
little grated nutmeg, and salt ; pass the whole on the fire for five min- 
utes, add a small ladleful of finished Espagnole or Veloute sauce 
(according to the color required) ; boil it quickly, finish with a little 
lemon-juice, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. 

15. PISCALINE SAUCE. 

Chop a handful of white mushrooms very fine, and place them in a 
small stewpan with a small piece of butter ; stir them on the fire for 
three minutes ; add a glass of French white wine, and after allowing 
these to simmer on the fire a little while, add a small ladleful of white 
sauce and a little essence of fowl ; reduce the sauce quickly, and then 
take it off the stove and mix in a leason of three yelks of eggs, and a 
small pat of butter ; set the leason in the sauce over the fire, and then 
pour it into a bain-marie for use. Just before using the sauce, add to 
it a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of 
half a lemon. 

16. d'uxelles SAUCES. 

Chop, separately, half a pottle of mushrooms, a handful of parsley, 
six shalots, and two ounces of truffles ; place these in a stewpan with 
two ounces of fat bacon scraped into a kind of pulp, a pat of butter, 
some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; then stir the whole on the fire 
for five minutes ; add two glasses of French white wine, reduced by 
boiling to half the quantity ; and then a small ladleful of white sauce ; 
reduce the whole quickly on the fire, and mix in a leason of six yelks 
of eggs ; finish with the juice of a lemon. Set the leason in the sauce 
by stirring it again on the fire ; place the sance in a small basin, and 
keep it for the purpose of covering all those entrees denominated d la 
D'Uxelles, previously to bread-crumbing them. 

17. POOR MAN'S SAUCE. 

Chop an onion very fine, put it into a stewpan with a small piece 
of butter, and gently fry the onion on the fire until it assumes a light- 
brown color ; then add a tablespoonful of white wine vinegar, and 
a pinch of minionette pepper ; allow these to simmer for three miu- 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 39 

ufces, and then add a small ladleful of blond of veal or consomme; 
let the whole be reduced to half the original quantity; and just 
before using the sauce, throw in a spoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley. 

18. PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

Chop, separately, six shalots, as many green gherkins, and a table- 
spoonful of French capers ; place these in a small stewpan with a gill 
of French vinegar, some thyme and a bay-leaf, and a good pinch of 
mignionette pepper ; set the whole to boil on the fire till the vinegar 
is reduced to a third of its original quantity ; then add a small ladle- 
ful of finished Espagnole sauce, and a little blond of veal : let the 
sauce boil gently on the side of the stove-fire to clear itself; skim it 
well, take out the thyme and bay-leaf, and pour it into a small bain- 
marie for use. 

19. GHEEKIN SAUCE. 

Take six green gherkins ; cut them into very thin slices ; place 
them in a small stewpan with a little PYench vinegar and mignionette 
pepper ; allow these to simmer quickly for a few minutes on the fire, 
then add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little blond of veal ; 
stir the sauce on the stove till it boils, then set it by the side to clear 
itself, skim it, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. 

20. WHITE EAVIGOTTE SAUCE. 

Put into a small stewpan two tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, the 
same quantities of tarragon vinegar and of Harvey sauce ; reduce 
these, by boiling, to half the quantity ; then add a small ladleful of 
good Bechamel sauce, or, if not at hand, the same quantity of white 
sauce ; finish by mixing in two pats of fresh butter, and just before 
using the sauce, throw in a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley. 

When white sauce is used instead of Bechamel, a little cream must 
be added. 

21. GEEEN EAVIGOTTE SAUCE. 

Wash and blanch some chervil, parsley, tarragon, and chives (of 
each a small handful), and also a little burnet ; cool these in fresh 
water as soon as they are blanched, and thoroughly extract the water 
by pressing them in a napkin ; pound the herbs, thus prepared, in a 
mortar, with two pats of butter ; after which rub them through a fine 
sieve with a wooden spoon, and place the residue in a small basin, to 
be kept on ice, or in a cool place. 

About five minutes before requiring the sauce for use, put into a 
small stewpan a ladleful of Allemande, and, when thoroughly warmed, 
mix in with it the prepared Ravigotte, in sufficient quantity to give a 
bright green color to the sauce ; add a tablespoonful of Tarragon vine- 
gar, and the same quantities of Chili vinegar and of Harvey sauce, 
previously reduced, by boiling, to half the quantity. 

This sauce is very generally used for fillets of fish. 

22. TOMATA, OE LOVE-APPLE SAUCE. 

Procure a dozen fine ripe tomatas, and, having first picked off the 
stalks, extract the seeds and watery parts, by squeezing them separately 






40 SAUCES. 

in the hand ; then place them in a stewpan, containing four ounces 
of raw ham cut into dice, a few shalots, a bay-leaf, and thyme, fried in 
a little butter until they become brown ; put the tomatas with these 
on the fire until they are melted; then, after having passed them 
through the tammy into a puree, mix the produce with a little Veloute 
sauce, a small piece of glaze, and a little consomme ; stir the sauce on 
the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side of the stove to continue 
boiling gently, that it may clear itself; skim it thoroughly, and pour 
it into a bain-marie for use. 

It is, perhaps, needless to observe, that, when the ready-prepared 
tomata sauce, as sold by oilmen, is used, as must be the case when 
tomatas are not in season, it will be necessary only to attend to the 
latter part of the foregoing directions. 

23. PERIGUEUX SAUCE. 

Chop six or eight truffles exceedingly fine, put them into a stewpan 
with two glasses of white wine, a little lean ham, some thyme, and a 
bay-leaf; set these to boil gently on the stove-fire for a few minutes, 
then add a ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme; stir the 
sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear 
itself; skim it well, take out the ham, the bay-leaf, the thyme, and, 
after reducing it to a proper consistency, pour it into a bain-marie 
for use. 

Just before dinner-time, add a small piece of butter, to soften the 
flavor. 

24. LYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Peel four Portugal onions, cut them in halves, trim off the ends, 
so as to leave the onions an inch and a half thick ; slice them across, 
that the pieces may separate at the junction of the several folds, or 
layers, of the onion ; fry them in a deep sauta-pan, in half a pint of 
salad-oil ; as soon as they assume a fine light color, drain them on a 
hair-sieve, and afterward lay them on a napkin, in order to extract all 
the oil ; after which put them into a small stewpan, with a good pinch 
of minionette pepper, a very small ladleful of reduced brown sauce, 
and a piece of glaze ; set the sauce to boil gently for a quarter of an 
hour, and finish by adding a little lemon-juice. 

25. PROVENCALE SAUCE. 

Cut two ounces of the lean part of a ham into very small dice, place 
them in a small stewpan, with two tablespoonsful of salad-oil, four cloves 
of garlic, some thyme, a bay-leaf, a spoonful of capers, the pulp of a 
lemon cut into slices, a good pinch of minionette pepper, and a few 
parsley stalks; stir these on the stove-fire for five minutes, then add a 
small ladleful of reduced brown sauce, and a piece of glaze. Boil the 
sauce on a quick fire for a few minutes longer, and then pass it through 
a tammy as you would a pur&e ; remove it into a stewpan, add a little 
consomme, and set it to boil gently by the side of the stove for a few 
minutes, skim it, and pour it into a bain-marie, finish by adding a little 
anchovy butter. 

26. VENETIAN SAUCE. 

Prepare a sufficient quantity of AUemande sauce for the purpose 






SPECIAL SAUCES. 41 

required, and, just before dinner-time, add a good spoonful of tarragon 
leaves, cut into diamond-shapes, and blanched green, a pat of butter, a 
little nutmeg, and a spoonful of tarragon vinegar. 

27. BRETOXNE SAUCE. 

Cut two large onions into thin slices ; fry them of a light brown 
color, in a little butter ; then add sufficient brown sauce, according 
to the quantity required, a little consomme, and a pinch of pepper ; 
boil the sauce gently for a quarter of an hour, and then pass it, as 
you would a puree, through the tammy, and put it into a bain-marie 
for use. 

28. BOURGUIGNOTTE SAUCE. 

Put four shalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, thyme, and bay-leaf, 
together with three glasses of red wine and some mushroom-trimmings, 
into a stewpan, on the fire, there to boil for five minutes ; add a small 
ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme ; stir the sauce on the 
fire till it boils, and then set it on the side to clear itself; skim it, 
reduce it to its proper consistency, and then pass it through the tammy 
into a bain-marie. 

29. POIVEADE SAUCE. 

' Take a carrot, an onion, and a head of celery ; cut them into very 
small dice, and place them in a stewpan, with two ounces of raw lean 
of ham cut similarly, some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a 
few peppercorns, and some parsley ; fry these with a little butter, of 
a light brown color ; moisten with two glasses of sherry and one of 
French vinegar ; reduce the above to one half its quantity, and then 
add a small ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme; stir the 
sauce till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it, 
and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 

30. GENOISE SAUCE. 

Cut some ham, carrot, celery, onion, parsley roots, and mushrooms, 
into very thin slices; place these in a stewpan with a little butter, 
some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and two cloves, and fry 
them on the stove for a few minutes ; moisten with half a bottle of red 
wine (claret suits best). Boil the whole for five minutes; add a small 
ladleful of brown sauce and a little consomme ; stir the sauce on the 
fire till it boils, and then set it to clarify by the side of the stove-fire ; 
skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 
Just before dinner-time, add a piece of anchovy butter, a spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and lemon- 
juice. 

31. MATELOTTE SAUCE. 

Take the wine in which the fish has been stewed, and add to it a 
ladleful of brown sauce, and some trimmings or essence of mush- 
rooms ; stir this on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to 
clear itself; skim and reduce it, and then pass it into a bain-marie ; 
finish by adding a little anchovy butter, grated nutmeg, and a pinch 
of suuar. 



42 SAUCES. 

32. NORMAN MATELOTTE SAUCE. 

Reduce some white Veloute sauce with some essence of mush- 
rooms, three glasses of French white wine, and the liquor from the 
muscles and oysters used for the malelotte : add a leason of four yelks 
of eggs, a pat of butter, some nutmeg and lemon-juice ; and pass the 
sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the 
sauce, add a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 

33. BIGARRADE SAUCE. 

With the carcasses of two or more roasted ducks, make an essence ; 
clarify it, and reduce it to half glaze. To this add a small ragout- 
spoonful of worked Espagnole, the juice of one orange, and the rind 
of two others entirely free from any portion of the white pith ; and 
having cut the rind into diamond shapes, blanch these pieces for three 
minutes in boiling water, and then put them into the sauce, which, after 
boiling for five minutes, pour into a bain-marie for use. 

34. AROMATIC SAUCE. 

Put into a small stewpan a few sprigs of winter-savory, of sweet 
basil, and lemon thyme ; six leaves of sage, and two bay-leaves, two 
shalots, some nutmeg, and pepper, and a ladleful of good consomme ; 
boil this quickly on the fire for ten minutes ; pass it through a sieve 
into a stewpan, and reduce it with an equal proportion of white 
sauce ; add a leason of four yelks of eggs, and pass the sauce into a 
bain-marie, containing two dozen stewed morels. Just before using 
this sauce, add a pat of butter, some lemon-juice, and a spoonful of 
chopped and blanched tarragon and chervil. 

35. RUSSIAN SAUCE. 

Having chopped and blanched some tarragon, chervil, and parsley, 
in equal proportions, put these iuto some reduced Veloute sauce 
thickened with two yelks of eggs. Just before using the sauce, add a 
little grated horseradish, a pinch of sugar, some pepper, lemon-juice, 
and a little mustard. 

This sauce is eaten with braized beef. 

36. ATELETS SAUCE. 

Cut two ounces of raw lean of ham into very small mince-meat ; put 
it into a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, one 
shalot chopped, a little nutmeg, and minionette pepper; moisten with 
a few spoonsful of consomme, and set the whole to simmer on the fire 
for ten minutes ; after which, add a small ladleful of white sauce, and 
having reduced it to a proper consistency, mix in a leason of six yelks 
of eggs, and a pat of butter ; finish with a little lemon-juice, and pass 
the sauce through a tammy into a basin. 

This sauce is used for covering all preparations for those entree* 
denominated d la Villeroi, or d la Dauphine, previously to their being 
dipped in the beateu egg for the purpose of being bread-crumbed. 

37. POLISH SAUCE. 

Scrape a stick of horseradish, and put it into some Allemande 
sauce with a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, the grated rind of 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 43 

one lemon, nutmeg, pepper, lemon-juice, a piece of glaze, and a little 
salt. Previously to using the sauce, add a spoonful of chopped and 
blanched parsley and fennel. 

This sauce is eaten with roast veal. 

38. SUPREME SAUCE. 

There are two methods by which this sauce may be made with 
equal success : that most generally adopted is, to use reduced Velovte 
sauce which has been worked with some essence of mushrooms and 
white consomme of fowls, and finished by adding a little boiling cream 
at the last stage of reduction ; the sauce should be then passed through 
a tammy into a bain-marie, and just before using it, a small piece of 
chicken glaze, a pat of fresh butter, and a little lemon-juice must be 
added. 

The other method, and which I prefer to the former, is to put a 
sufficient quantity of Allemande sauce into a bain-marie, and finish it 
for the purpose, by mixing in a piece of chicken glaze, a pat of fresh 
butter, and a little lemon-juice ; care must be taken that the Supreme 
sauce be not thick. 

39. SUPREME OF GAME. 

This is made like the previous sauce, except that, according to the 
first method, some essence of game must be used instead of the 
chicken consomme, and in the second recipe, the Allemande sauce used 
for the purpose should be worked with an essence of game (pheasaut 
or partridge), and also finished with a piece of game glaze. 

40. PARISIAN" SAUCE. 

Put some Allemande sauce into a bain-marie, add thereto a spoon- 
ful of essence of truffles, a piece of game or chicken glaze, according 
to the purpose for which the sauce may be required, whether for an 
entree made of game or poultry ; add some crayfish butter in suffi- 
cient quantity to color it of a pinky tint, a little cayenne and lemon- 
juice ; when these ingredients are well mixed in the Allemande, add 
two dozen small truffles cut in the shape of small olives. 

41. AURORA SAUCE. 

Put some Bechamel sauce into a bain-marie, and just before the 
sauce is required for use, mix in a small piece of lobster butter, a 
leason of three yelks of eggs, a tablespoonful of tarragon-vinegar, and 
a little cayenne. 

42. DUTCH SAUCE. 

Put the yelks of six eggs, a small piece of glaze, six ounces of fresh 
butter, a spoonful of white sauce, some nutmeg, minionette pepper, and 
salt, into a small stewpan ; stir these quickly with a wooden spoon, 
over a slow fire, or else immerse the bottom of the stewpan into a deep 
sauta-pan half full of boiling water, which must be kept over a slow 
fire, while the sauce is worked : as soon as the sauce assumes a smooth 
compact body, take it away from the fire, work it smartly, and then 
pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. If the sauce 
should appear to curdle or decompose, add a spoouful of any white 
sauce nearest at hand, which will set it right again. 






44 SAUCES. 

Dutch sauce may be flavored with various sorts of vinegar, horse- 
radish, or lemon-juice, according to fancy, or as the case may require. 

43. MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE, 

Put some Bechamel sauce into a stewpan, make it boil, and incor- 
porate with it six ounces of fresh butter, some chopped and blanched 
parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 

44. COLD MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

Put about six ounces of fresh butter on a plate, knead it together 
with some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 

This butter is chiefly used for French beefsteaks, for broiled mack- 
erel, and other sorts of broiled fish, as will be shown hereafter. 

45. PRINCESS SAUCE. 

Put into a small stewpan the rind of one lemon, and half a stick 
of horse-radish, both grated ; a little nutmeg, pepper, and two table- 
spoonsful of French vinegar ; simmer these on a slow fire for a few 
minutes, and then add a small ladleful of Allemande sauce ; stir the 
whole on the fire till it boils, then pass it through a tammy into a 
bain-marie. Just before using the sauce, add a pat of fresh butter, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. This sauce 
will prove an excellent accessory, to be served with any entree of 
poultry or game, when dressed a la Dauphine, or a la Villeroi; as 
also for fillets of dressed fish, bread-crumbed, and denominated d la 
Princess; in which case, a little anchovy butter may be added. 

46. ALBERT SAUCE. 

Grate three large sticks of horse-radish, put them into a stewpan 
with a pint of good broth ; let this simmer gently on a moderate fire 
for half an hour, then add a little white sauce and half a pint of 
cream ; reduce the whole over a brisk fire, and pass the sauce 
through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain-marie. 
Just before using the sauce, make it hot, and mix in a little 
French vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, some salt, a 
tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and two yelks of 
eggs. 

This sauce is well adapted to be eaten with braized fillet of beef, 
garnished with potatoes cut into the shapes of olives, and fried in 
butter. 

47. INDIAN CURRY SAUCE. 

Take two large onions, one carrot, and one head of celery, and slice 
them very thin ; place these with two ounces of fresh butter in a 
stewpan, and fry them over a slow fire till the onions are nearly 
melted, but without becoming brown ; add three blades of mnce, 
some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, and two table- 
spoonsful of Cooks or Bruce's meat curry paste, a tablespoonful of 
curry powder, and as much roux or flour as may be required to 
thicken the quantity of sauce needed ; moisten with some good broth 
or consomme, and stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; then set it by 
the side to clear itself of the butter, &c. Having skimmed and 
reduced the sauce to a proper consistency, pass it through a tammy 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 45 

(extracting the parsley), as for a puree, and take it up into a bain- 
marie, or add it to whatever kind of meat is prepared for the curry ; 
observing that the broth thereof should be used for making the 
sauce. 

48. CARDINAL SAUCE. 

Put some reduced Veloute sauce into a stewpan, add some essence 
of mushrooms, lobster butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon- 
juice, and cayenne ; work these well together, and pass the sauce 
through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 

Observe : that for whatever kind of meat or fish this sauce may be 
intended, the essence or liquor of the meat or fish should be first 
reduced to glaze, and then incorporated into the sauce, iu order to 
give it a characteristic flavor. 

49. REGENCY SAUCE. 

Cut an eel of a pound weight into thin slices, and place them in 
a stewpan with six cloves, two blades of mace, some thyme, a bay- 
leaf, sweet basil, a carrot, mushrooms, an onion, and a little salt; 
moisten with three parts of a bottle of good claret, and put the whole 
to boil gently on the fire for half an hour ; after which pass the essence 
thus obtained through the tammy with pressure, so as to extract every 
particle. Then mix the produce with a ladleful of reduced Espagnole 
sauce, and having boiled, skimmed, and reduced it, finish by working 
into it some essence of truffles, anchovy butter, nutmeg, lemon-juice, 
and a small pinch of sugar. 

This sauce is peculiarly well adapted for every sort of colored fish, 
either fresh-water or salt. 

50. WHITE OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put the oysters into a stewpan, and set them to boil for five minutes 
on the stove-fire, drain them on a sieve (saving their liquor in a basin), 
wash and beard them, taking care to cut off the tendons, as that part 
when eaten is troublesome to the teeth, and put them into a bain- 
marie — reserving only the fat part ; then put four ounces of butter 
(more or less, according to the quantity of sauce) into a stewpan with 
two ounces of flour, cayenne pepper, and salt; knead these well 
together, and moisten with the oyster liquor, some cream, and a piece 
of glaze ; stir the sauce on the fire, keeping it boiling for ten minutes ; 
then pass it through a tammy upon the oysters. Just before sending 
to table, add a little lemon-juice. 

51. BROWN OYSTER SAUCE. 

Prepare this precisely as the last sauce, but instead of the cream, 
use an equal quantity of brown gravy. Brown oyster sauce is a very 
desirable accessory to beefsteaks, beef pudding, beefsteak pie, broiled 
slices of codfish, and various other plain dressed dishes. 

52. MUSCLE SAUCE. 

Cleanse, wash, beard, and blanch or parboil two quarts of muscles ; 
take all the white fat muscles out of the shells, and place them in a 
bain-marie, reserving their liquor in a basin. Then knead four ounces 
of butter with two ounces of flour, some nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; 



46 SAUCES. 

add the liquor from the muscles, a piece of glaze, and half a pint of 
cream ; stir the whole on the stove fire till it boils, and keep it boil- 
ing for ten minutes: — then add a leason of four yelks of eggs, and 
pass it through a tammy on to the muscles. Just before sending the 
sauce to table, throw in a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched 
parsley, and a little lemon-juice. 

This sauce is well adapted for broiled whiting, turbot, cod, haddock, 
and gurnet. 

53. SHEIMP SAUCE. 

To about half a pint of melted butter, add a little lobster coral, 
cayenne, some pickled shrimps, a little essence of anchovies, and 
lemon-juice. 

54. CRAYFISH SAUCE. 

Boil thirty crayfish in the usual manner, trim the tails, and with the 
bodies and shells make some crayfish butter (No. 184), which incor- 
porate into about half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce; add a little 
essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice, and pass this sauce 
through a tammy ou to the crayfish tails. 

55. LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Cut the fleshy part of a lobster into small square pieces ; reserve 
the spawn and coral, and pound it with two ounces of butter, and 
pass it through a sieve. Then put about half a pint of melted butter, 
or the same quantity of reduced Veloute sauce, into a stewpan, incor- 
porate therewith the lobster butter, a small piece of glaze, cayenne, 
and lemon-juice, add the pieces of lobster, and send to table. 

56. STURGEON" SAUCE. 

Take some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braized, 
and having reduced it to one third of its quantity, add half a bottle 
of claret or port, a ladleful of worked Espagnole sauce, and some 
essence or trimmings of mushrooms ; allow the sauce to clear itself 
by boiling gently on the side of the stove fire, skim it, reduce it, and 
then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using 
the sauce, mix in a pat of butter, some nutmeg, cayenne, essence of 
anchovies, and lemon-juice. 

57. BORDELAISE SAUCE. 

Mince two ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stewpan with two 
cloves of garlic, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, some thyme, 
and a bay-leaf, some sprigs of tarragon, and half a pint of claret ; 
set these to simmer gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then 
add a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, a small gravy-spoun- 
ful of worked Espagnole sauce, and a little blond of veal ; having 
allowed the sauce to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire to clear 
itself, pass it with pressure through a tammy into a bain-marie for 
use. This sauce must be kept rather thin, and to be perfect, should 
be bright and wholly free from grease ; it is especially adapted, by 
its flavor and character, for being served with broiled meats and fishes 
generally. When this sauce is served with broiled fish, add to it, just 
before sending to table, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and 
lemon-juice. 






SPECIAL SAUCES. 47 

58. CLAREMONT SAUCE. 

Cut two or more large onions into halves, pare off the ends, cut 
them into thin slices, and fry them in a stewpan with some butter, 
of a fine yellow color ; drain off the butter, add a pinch of minion- 
ette pepper, with a little brown sauce and consomme ; set this to boil 
gently by the side of the stove fire, skim it, and then, when suffi- 
ciently reduced, pour it into a bain-marie for use. This sauce, as well 
as sauce a la BrHonne, is well calculated for making an excellent hash, 
either with beef, veal, or mutton. 

59. PORTUGUESE SAUCE. 

Grate the rind of a lemon, and put it into a small stewpan with 
a few bruised peppercorns, some mace, six cloves, thyme, and a 
bay-leaf, with half a pint of sherry ; simmer the whole on a slow 
fire for ten minutes, then add a small ladleful of worked brown sauce, 
and a little consomme ; set this to boil gently by the side of the stove- 
fire, skim it, reduce it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie 
for use. 

This sauce is used for a braized fillet of beef, or minced fillet of 
beef au gratin a la Portuguaise. 

60. SICILIAN SAUCE. 

Chop two truffles, four shalots, a dozen mushrooms, and some 
parsley, separately ; put them into a small stewpan with thyme, and a 
bay-leaf, one clove of garlic, and a little cayenne ; moisten with two 
glasses of sherry, set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for 
ten minutes ; add a sufficient quantity of Allemande sauce for the pur- 
pose required, reduce it to its proper consistency, and then put it into 
a bain-marie for use. 

Just before using this sance, add a spoonful of chopped and 
blanched parsley, the rind of two oranges — pared extremely thin, 
cut into fine shreds, and blanched — some lemon-juice, and a little 
pounded sugar. 

61. GERMAN" SWEET SAUCE. 

Stew six ounces of dried cherries in two glasses of red wine, 
together with some bruised cinnamon, cloves, and lemon peel, for 
twenty minutes on a slow fire; pass the whole through a tammy into 
a puree, and put it into a stewpan with a little reduced brown sauce 
and six ounces of stewed prunes. 

This sauce is in great request for German dishes ; it improves 
the flavor of braized venison in its varied forms of preparation, 
and is preferred by many for that purpose to Poivrade or Piquante 
sauce. 

62. CHEERY SAUCE. 

Put a pot of black currant jelly into a stewpan, together with six 
ounces of dried cherries, a small stick of cinnamon, and a dozen cloves 
tied up in a piece of muslin ; moisten with half a pint of red wine, and 
set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes ; then 
take out the cinnamon and cloves, and send to table. 

This kind of sauce is well adapted for roast hare or venison 









48 SAUCES. 

63. NEAPOLITAN SAUCE. 

Scrape a stick of horse-radish quite clean, grate it, and place this 
in a small stewpan with two ounces of glaze, a small pot of currant- 
jelly, half a pint of red wine, and a spoonful of worked brown sauce ; 
boil the whole gently on a stove-fire for twenty minutes, then pass the 
sauce through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain- 
marie for use. 

This kind of sauce is generally used with larded fillets of beef. It 
may also be served with entrees of venison. 

64. CHERRY SAUCE A LA VICTORIA. 

Put a small pot of red currant-jelly into a stewpan, together with 
a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of two oranges, a 
piece of glaze, and a large gravy-spoonful of reduced brown sauce ; 
moisten with half a pint of Burgundy wine, boil gently on the fire for 
twenty minutes ; pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, 
add the juice of the two oranges, and just before sending to table boil 
the sauce. . 

This sauce is especially appropriate with red deer or roebuck, when 
prepared in a marinade and larded. 

65. RED CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

Bruise one stick of cinnamon and twelve cloves, and put them 
into a small stewpan with two ounces of sugar, and the peel of one 
lemon pared off very thin, and perfectly free from any portion of 
white pnlp ; moisten with three glasses of port wine, and set the 
whole to simmer gently on the fire for a quarter of an hour; then 
strain it through a sieve into a small stewpan containing a pot of red 
currant-jelly. Just before sending the sauce to table, set it on the fire 
to boil, in order to melt the currant-jelly, so that it may mix with the 
essence of spice, &c. 

66. BLACK CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

This sauce is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing — 
substituting black currant-jelly for red ; it is preferred by many to the 
other, as it possesses more flavor. 

67. SAUCE A LA ROBERT. 

Peel two large onions and cut them in halves, pare off the ends, 
and cut them into very small dice in the following manner : — hold the 
half onion in the left hand, set it firmly on the table with the cut 
side downward, then with a knife held in the right hand horizon- 
tally, apply the edge of the point, and cut the onion into slices 
parallel with the surface of the table, without drawing the knife 
quite through ; then turn the piece of onion half round and cut it 
nearly through in a vertical direction ; this will form the whole into 
small dice like pieces. Next, put these into a small stewpan with 
about an ounce of fresh butter, and fry them of a light yellow color; 
then drain the butter, and add two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar : 
set this on the fire to simmer, and when the vinegar is nearly 
reduced, add a small ladleful of Espai/nole sauce, and half that 
quantity of consomme ; stir this on the fire till it boils, then set it on 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 49 

the side to continue gently boiling that it may clear itself; skim it 
thoroughly, and having reduced it to a proper consistency, pour it into 
a bain-marie, and finish it by mixing in two teaspoonsful of French 
mustard and a little minionette pepper. 

This sauce is peculiarly adapted, from its piquante, full, yet delicate 
flavor, for entrees of broiled pork. 

68. SAUCE A LA GASCONISTE. 

Take a small spoonful of French capers, with about an ounce of 
truffles, and chop each separately, very fine ; put these into a smalt 
stewpan, together with one clove of garlic, a tablespoonful of salad oil, 
some pepper, and nutmeg ; fry them lightly on the stove-fire for two 
or three minutes ; moisten with a glass of French white wine, set the 
whole to boil on the stove-fire for three minutes ; then add a small 
ladleful of white Veloute sauce, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; stir 
the sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to continue 
boiling gently; skim it well, and after having added another glass of 
wine, reduce the sauce and thicken it with a leason of three yelks ; pour 
the sauce into a bain-marie, and just before using it mix in a spoonful 
of chopped and blanched chives, parsley, and tarragon, a pat of anchovy 
butter, and some lemon-jnice. 

69. CHEVKEUIL OR PIQUANTE SAUCE FOR ROEBUCK. 

Chop four ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stewpan, with a 
good pinch of minionette pepper, some thyme, and a bay-leaf, a few 
green onions, and some sprigs of parsley ; moisten with a gill of French 
vinegar, boil the whole on the fire till reduced to half its original quan- 
tity, and then add a small ladleful of brown sauce, a small tumblerful 
of red wine, and a little consomme ; stir this on the fire till it boils, 
and after having cleared and skimmed it in the usual manner, reduce it 
to a proper consistency, and finish by adding a spoonful of red currant- 
jelly and the juice of an orange. 

70. BUTTER SAUCE. 

Butter sauce, or, as it is more often absurdly called, melted butter, 
is the foundation of the whole of the following sauces, and requires 
very great care in its preparation. Though simple, it is nevertheless 
a very useful and agreeable sauce when properly made ; so far from 
this being usually the case, it is too generally left to assistants to 
prepare as an insignificant matter ; the result is therefore seldom satis- 
factory. 

When a large quantity of butter sauce is required, put four ounces 
of fresh butter into a middle-sized stewpan, with some grated nutmeg 
and minionette pepper; to these add four ounces of sifted flour; knead 
the whole well together, and moisten with a pint of cold spring water ; 
stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and after having kept it gently 
boiling for twenty minutes (observing that it be not thicker than the 
consistence of common white sauce), proceed to mix in one pound and 
a half of sweet fresh butter, taking care to stir the sauce quickly the 
whole time of the operation. Should it appear to turn oily, add now 
and then a spoonful of cold spring water ; finish with the juice of half a 
lemon, and salt to palate ; then pass the sauce through a tammy into a 
large bain-marie for use. 
3 



50 SAUCES. 

Note. — This kind of sauce should not be made above twenty minutes 
before it is wanted, as, from its particular delicacy, when exposed much 
longer to heat of any kind, it is liable to be decomposed ; should this 
occur, it may be remedied by simply adding a little cold spring water 
in winter, or a small piece of clean ice in summer ; and then working 
the sauce briskly together with a spoon. This method is efficacious in 
restoring any sort of butter sauce, when turned or become oily, to its 
original smoothness. 

71. BUTTER SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS. 

Prepare some sauce as directed in the foregoing recipe, and add a 
little double cream, with a teaspoonful of French vinegar. 

This sauce is also served with cauliflower, brocoli, seakale, salsifis, 
&c, &c. 

72. ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Prepare some butter sauce, add a sufficient quantity of essence of 
anchovies to give flavor, and a little lemon-juice. 

73. PLAIN LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Cut all the fleshy part of the lobster into small square dice, place 
them in a bain-marie with sufficient butter sauce (No. 70), a little 
cayenne, and lemon-juice, and also some lobster coral forced through 
a hair-sieve ; stir the sauce with a spoon on the fire till it boils, and 
send to table. The coral may also be pounded with a little butter, 
and after being rubbed through a sieve or tammy, worked into the 
sauce. Either method may be adopted, but the latter is generally 
preferred. 

74. PLAIN SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Take half a pint of pickled shrimps, half a pint of butter sauce 
(No. TO), a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice ; stir 
these together in a small stewpan over the fire, and serve. 

75. FENNEL SAUCE. 

Chop and blanch sufficient fennel to color the sauce of a bright green, 
and put it into a bain-marie, containing half a pint of butter sauce; 
add a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 

76. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Let a pint of green young gooseberries be well picked, throw them 
into an untinned sugar-boiler, containing sufficient boiling water to 
blanch them in ; boil them quickly on the stove-fire for ten minutes 
(more or less), but observe that the gooseberries be thoroughly done; 
drain them on a sieve, remove them into a small - stewpan, and bruise 
them with a wooden spoon. The gooseberries after being boiled may 
be rubbed through a sieve or tammy into a puree, which has the effect 
of giving a smoother appearance to the sauce. This sauce is served 
with plain boiled mackerel. 

77. PARSLEY SAUCE, USUALLY CALLED PARSLEY AND BUTTER. 

Put a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley into half a pint 
of good butter sauce ; and just before sending to table add a very little 
lemon-juice. 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 51 

78. PLAIN" RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. 

Take one tablespoonful each of tarragon-vinegar, Chili ditto, and 
Harvey's sauce ; put this into a small stewpan, and set it to boil down 
to half the quantity ; then add about half a pint of good butter sauce 
(No. 70), and a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon, with 
chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley, in sufficient quantity to give a 
bright color to the sauce ; stir the whole well together and serve. 

This sauce is proper for boiled fowls or chickens, dressed fillets of 
various sorts of fish, when a plain dinner is served. If a small piece 
of glaze be added it will tend much to improve the quality of all plain 
sauces. 

79. PLAIN DUTCH SAUCE. 

Pour a large gravy-spoonful of melted butter into a small stewpan, 
add four raw yelks Of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, some minionette 
pepper, two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt ; stir the sauce 
briskly on the fire in order to set the yelks in it, and then pass it through 
a tammy into a bain-marie ; previously to using it add a little tarra- 
gon-vinegar or lemon-juice. 

80. BREAD SAUCE. 

Put a gill of cream and a little milk into a small stewpan with a 
large gravy-spoonful of bread-crumbs, a small onion, some pepper- 
corns, and a little salt ; stir the sauce on the fire until it has boiled ten 
minutes, then take out the onion, work in a pat of fresh butter, and 
serve. 

81. FRIED BREAD SAUCE. 

Mince a little lean ham and put it into a small stewpan with one 
chopped shalot, some grated nutmeg, minionette pepper, and half a 
pint of good gravy ; simmer the whole on the stove-fire till reduced to 
half, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into another small 
stewpan, containing four tablespoonsful of fried bread-crumbs of a 
light-brown color, and some chopped parsley ; and a little essence of 
chicken and the juice of half a lemon ; stir the sauce till it boils, and 
serve. 

This kind of sauce is appropriate for all small birds, such as wheat- 
ears, ortolans, ruffs and reeves, &c, &c. 

82. BROWN GRAVY FOR ROAST VEAL. 

Place four ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan and knead it with a 
good tablespoonful of flour ; add a ladleful of good brown gravy, some 
essence of mushrooms or mushroom catsup, a little grated nutmeg, and 
minionette pepper ; stir the sauce on the stove, and keep it gently 
boiling for ten minutes. If it becomes too thick add a little more 
gravy, so as to keep it of the same consistency as any other sauce ; 
finish with a little lemon-juice. 

If there is no gravy or essence of mushrooms at hand, use, in their 
stead, a ladleful of water, a piece of glaze, some mushroom catsup, and 
a little Indian soy ; these will answer nearly the same purpose. 



52 SAUCES. 

83. CREAM SAUCE FOR ROAST NECK OF VEAL. 

Knead four ounces of fresh butter with two ounces of sifted flour ; 
add half a pint of good cream and a small ladleful of white consomme, 
a little nutmeg and minionette pepper, some essence of mushrooms, and 
a garnished parsley -fagot ; stir the sauce till it boils, and keep it gently 
boiling for twenty minutes ; then extract the onion and fagot, and 
pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. 

84. EGG SAUCE. 

Boil some eggs hard ; when cold, break and pick off their shells, 
and then cut them up into square dicelike pieces, and put them into 
some good melted butter, with a little pepper and salt ; stir gently on 
the fire till the sauce is hot, and then serve. 

85. EGG SAUCE, ANOTHER METHOD. 

Boil four eggs hard, take the yelks out, and cut the whites into 
small shreds and put them into a stewpan ; place a wire sieve over a 
clean plate, and rub the yelks through it on to the plate, keeping the 
vermicellilike substance which the operation will produce as whole as 
possible ; pour some good butter sauce on to the shred whites of eggs, 
adding thereto a teaspoonful of English mustard, a little pepper and 
salt, and lemon-juice ; just before serving, warm the sauce, and mix in 
lightly the vermicellied yelks of eggs, and serve. 

86. SAUCE MOUTARDE, OR MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Into about half a pint of good butter sauce, mix two tablespoonsful 
of prepared English mustard and one of French ditto ; make the sauce 
hot, and serve. 

This sauce is seldom used for any other dish than broiled herrings. 

87. PLAIN CURRY SAUCE. 

Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, together with rather 
more than an ounce of flour and a good tablespoonful of curry-paste 
or powder ; knead these well together, then add a little shred carrot, 
celery, and onions ; moisten with about a pint of good strong consomme ; 
stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and, after having kept it boiling 
for about twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy, as for a puree ; 
then remove the sauce iuto a bain-marie or stewpan, to be used wheu 
required. 

This economical method of making curry sauce should only be 
resorted to in cases of emergency or necessity, otherwise it is desirable 
to follow the directions contained in No. 47. 

88. WASTREFISH SAUCE, FOR BOILED FRESH-WATER FISH. 

Cut into small shreds the rind of an orange, the red part of a 
carrot, a handful of parsley-stalks, and an equal proportion of 
parsley-roots ; blanch these, and, having drained them on a sieve or 
napkin, place them in a small stewpau, containing about half a pint 
of Dutch sauce, with the addition of two spoonsful of reduced 
essence of fish, a little cayenne, and lemon-juice ; stir the sauce on 
the fire without allowing it to boil, and serve it with perch, or, 



SPECIAL SAUCES. 53 

indeed, with any other sort of plain boiled fresh-water fish, for which 
purpose the ingredients it contains render it peculiarly fitted. 

89. FLEMISH SAUCE. 

Knead two ounces of fresh butter with an equal quantity of flour, 
to which add an onion, some sprigs of parsley, a little shred carrot, 
and a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and a little minionette 
pepper ; moisten with half a pint of cream and the same proportion 
of good consomme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and, after 
having kept it boiling for twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy 
into a bain-marie, containing the red part of a carrot, some parsley- 
stalks and roots, and some horse-radish, the whole of which should 
be previously cut into small diamonds and blanched ; finish by 
mixing in a small spoonful of tarragon-vinegar and three or four 
green Indian gherkins cut into shreds ; make the sauce hot, and 
serve. 

90. CAPER SAUCE, FOR FISH. 

Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one ounce of flour, a very 
little grated nutmeg, and minionette pepper; to these add a table- 
spoonful of capers, a piece of glaze, and a little essence of anchovies ; 
moisten with about half a pint of good consomme ; stir the sauce on 
the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off; add a little lemon- 
juice, and serve. 

This kind of sauce is peculiarly adapted for broiled salmon. 

91. CAPER SAUCE, FOR BOILED MUTTON. 

To about half a pint of good butter sauce, add a tablespoonful of 
capers, with a little pepper and salt. 

92. CREAM SAUCE, OR BECHAMEL, FOR SALT-FISH. 

Place four ounces of sifted flour in a stewpan, with an equal quan- 
tity of fresh butter; knead them together well with a wooden spoon ; 
add an onion, a carrot, a head of celery — the whole cut up thin — 
some branches of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay-leaf, two 
cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns ; moisten with about a 
pint of good white consomme and half a pint of cream, adding a little 
salt ; stir the sauce on the fire until it boils ; let it continue to boil for 
twenty minutes, stirring it the whole time; then pass it through a 
tammy into a bain-marie, to be kept for use. 

93. BEURRE NOIR, OR BLACK BUTTER SHARP SAUCE. 

Place about six ounces of good fresh butter in a small stewpan, 
put it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fritter, so as to acquire 
a light brown color; then take it off the stove, skim it, and quickly 
pass it through a sieve, into a stewpan containing four tablespoonsful 
of French vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers, ditto Har- 
vey's sauce, ditto mushroom catsup, and a piece of glaze the size of a 
walnut, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce ; boil the 
whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or broiled mackerel. 
With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley forms an 
indispensable adjunct. 



54 COLD SAUCES. 

93a. orleaxs sauce. 

Take the red part of a boiled carrot, the fillets of six washed an- 
chovies, the white of two eggs boiled hard, and six green gherkins ; 
cut these into small square dicelike shapes, and place them in a small 
bain-marie, add half a pint of Poivrade sauce, boil together gently for 
five minutes, and use this sauce for braized meats. 

93 b. devil's sauce. 

Chop three shalots fine, aud place them in a small stewpan, with 
-two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, and a pinch of cayenne pepper ; 
boil these together for three minutes ; then add half a pint of thin 
strong JSspagnole sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomata sauce ; boil 
again, and finish by stirring in a small pat of anchovy butter (Xo. 
179). This sauce is most appropriate for broiled meats. 



COLD SAUCES. 

COMPRISING 

Cambridge Sauce. Mayonnaite Sauce of savory jelly. 

Remoulade do. Provencale Sauce. 

Tartar do. Cold Poivrade do. 

Mayonnaise do. Wild Boar's Head do. 

Green do. do. Brawn do. 
Bed, or Coral do. do. 

94. CAMBRIDGE SAUCE. 

Take the yelks of six eggs boiled hard, the fillets of four anchovies, 
cleaned, and put them into a mortar, with a tablespoonful of French 
capers, some tarragon, chervil, chives, and a little burnet, blanched ; 
pound these well together with a teaspoonful of English mustard, the 
same quantity of French, and some pepper and salt ; moisten with good 
salad-oil, and a little tarragon-vinegar, taking care that the sauce be 
kept rather thick. Having sufficiently moistened the sauce, take it 
out of the mortar into the tammy placed over a dish for that purpose, 
and proceed to rub the sauce through the tammy in the same manner 
as a puree ; pass the back part of a knife along the under part of the 
tammy, in order to detach therefrom any adhesive particles; take the 
sauce up into a small basin, to be kept on the ice till wanted for use, 
and just before sending it to table add some chopped parsley. Observe 
that this sauce be kept about the same degree of thickness as reduced 
Veloute sauce ; salt must be used in moderation, owing to the presence 
of anchovies in the composition. 

95. REMOULADE SAUCE. 

Blanch some tarragon, chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley ; extract 
the water and pound these herbs together, with four yelks of hard 
eggs ; moisten with a gill of salad-oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon- 
vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Pass the sauce through a 
tammy as for a puree, and then take it up into a small basin ; keep it 
on the ice till it is required for use. 



COLD SAUCES. 



96. TARTAR SAUCE. 



55 



Place a round-bottomed basin in a deep sauta-pan containing some 
pounded ice, put two raw yelks of eggs into the basin with a little 
pepper and salt, and with a wooden spoon proceed, with the back 
part of the bowl, to work the yelk of eggs, dropping in, at intervals, 
very small quantities of salad-oil, and a little tarragon-vinegar, until 
a sufficient quantity of sauce is produced; bearing in mind, that the 
relative quantity of oil to be used in proportion to the vinegar is as 
five to one. When the sauce is finished, add some chopped tarragon 
and chervil, and half a shalot. 

In making this sauce, should it decompose through inattention, it 
may instantly be restored to its proper consistency by mixing in it a 
good spoonful of cold white sauce. 

97. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Place two raw yelks of eggs in a round-bottomed basin, and set 
this in a deep sauta-pan containing some pounded ice ; add a little 
pepper and salt to the yelks, and proceed to work them quickly with 
the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon, moistening at inter- 
vals with salad-oil and French vinegar, which must, however, be 
sparingly used at first, and gradually increased as you proceed, until, 
by this means, the quantity of sauce desired is produced ; add a little 
lemon-juice to make the sauce white. Previous to using the sauce, 
add a little aspic-jelly (No. 1218), which must be just barely melted 
before incorporating it with the Mayonnaise, as in the case of its being 
made warm it might have the effect of turning and decomposing the 
sauce. 

98. GREEN MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Blanch some tarragon, chervil, a little burnet, and some parsley ; 
extract the water therefrom ; pass the Ravigotte thus produced through 
a sieve, and proceed to incorporate it with some Mayonnaise, prepared 
according to the foregoing instructions. 

This sauce is usually colored with spinach-green (No. 286). 

99. RED OR CORAL MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Pound some lobster coral, pass it through a sieve, and mix it in with 
some Mayonnaise sauce ; add a little cayenne pepper and a spoonful 
of mustard. 

This sauce should be used exclusively for lobster and fish salads. 

100. MAYONNAISE SAUCE OF SAVORY JELLY. 

Set a round-bottomed basin in some pounded ice, place therein 
half a pint of light-colored aspic-jelly, a little pepper and salt, a 
gravy-spoonful of salad-oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon-vinegar; 
whip this mixture quickly with a whisk, adding, from time to time, 
some oil and vinegar in the same proportions as heretofore directed ; 
by whipping briskly, you will find the sauce assume a white, smooth 
appearance; add a little lemon-juice, to whiten it, and some chopped 
tarragon and chervil ; or, if preferred, this sauce may be used without 
the latter. This kind of Mayonnaise sauce is considered as being the 
most delicate, and is particularly adapted for aspics of fillets of fowls, 
or any sort of white fish. 



56 COLD SAUCES. 

This sauce may also be colored, by using for that purpose either 
some pounded lobster coral, or extract of spinach (No. 286). 

101. PROVENCALE SAUCE. 

Pound four yelks of hard-boiled eggs, together with four anchovies, 
a spoonful of capers, some tarragon, chervil, burnet, parsley, a clove 
of garlic, pepper and salt, a gill of salad-oil, and a tablespoonful of 
tarragon-vinegar ; rub the whole through a tammy with a wooden 
spoon as for a, puree: add a little lemon-juice and serve. 

This kind of sauce is well adapted to be served with broiled eels or 
fowls, and more especially with fish salads ; in which case, a spoonful 
of chopped parsley should be added. 

102. COLD POIVKADE SAUCE. 

Put a good spoonful of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin, 
add thereto four tablespoonsful of salad-oil, one of Chili vinegar, a 
little tarragon-vinegar, pepper, and salt ; work the whole well together 
with a whisk, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a little 
shalot. 

This sauce is good with plain boiled artichokes, and also for brawn, 
by adding a little sugar for the brawn. 

103. boar's HEAD SAUCE. 

Grate a stick of horse-radish, and place it in a basin with four 
ounces of red currant-jelly, a spoonful of mixed mustard, the grated 
rind of an orange and lemon, together with the juice of both ; two 
ounces of pounded sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and two 
tablespoonsful of salad-oil ; mix these ingredients thoroughly together, 
and serve. 

104. ANOTHER METHOD FOR MAKING BOAR'S HEAD SAUCE. 

Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, free from any of the white 
pith, cut it into fine shreds, parboil this, and drain it on a sieve ; then 
put it into a small stewpan containing the juice of the two oranges, 
together with one pound of red currant jelly, half a pint of port wine, 
and half a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder ; simmer the whole together 
in a stewpan, and serve when cold. 

105. BRAWN SAUCE. 

Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vine- 
gar, three of salad-oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper 
and salt, and serve. 



PUREES OF VEGETABLES. 57 



PUREES OF VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING,* 







COMPRISING 




Puree of Peas. 


Puree 


of Artichokes. 


» 


Windsor Beans. 


» 


Asparagus. 


» 


Carrots. 


» 


Onions a la Soubise. 


» 


Turnips. 


5! 


Tomatas. 


» 


Celery. 


» 


Truflies. 




Cauliflowers. 


>t 


Mushrooms. 


)> 


Spinach. 


» 


Brussels Sprouts. 




Sorrel. 


» 


Cucumbers. 


yy 


Endive. 


>l 


French Beans. 


jf 


Chestnuts. 


>> 


Jerusalem Artichokes. 


>* 


Potatoes. 


» 


Seakale. 



106. PUREE OF PEAS. 

Boil a quart of marrowfat, or Prussian-blue peas, in the usual 
manner, with some mint, a few green onions, and a handful of 
parsley ; strain off the water, and pound the whole thoroughly in a 
mortar ; then take this up into a stewpan, and after adding a little 
sugar, a gravy-spoonful of good white sauce, make it hot, and pass 
it through a tammy as usual ; put the puree into a small stewpan, in 
which it must be warmed before using it : mix in a small piece of 
glaze, and a pat of fresh butter. 

107. PUREE OF WINDSOR BEANS. 

Procure a quart of young Windsor beans, and boil them with a 
handful of parsley, a few green onions, and a little winter savory ; 
drain them and pound the whole together in a mortar : take them up 
into a stewpan, add a gravy-spoonful of good white sauce, and make 
the puree warm. Rub it through the tammy with a wooden spoon ; 
then take it up into a stewpan, and just before using it make it suffi- 
ciently hot ; mix in a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a little 
sugar, and some spinach-green (No. 285). 

108. PUREE OF YOUNG CAREOTS. 

Clean a bunch of young carrots, slice them up thin, wash and 
drain them in a sieve; then place them in a stewpan, with two 
ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and sugar ; sweat 
them on a slow fire, turning them over now and then. When the 
carrots begin to get colored, moisten with a ladleful of good broth, 
and set them on the fire; allow them to boil down gently to a glaze, 
then pound them in the mortar, and rub them through the tammy 
into a puree ; put this puree into a small stewpan, and when required 
for use, add a spoonful of thick Allemande sauce, a pat of fresh butter, 
and a pinch of sugar. 

109. PUREE OF TURNIPS A LA CREME. 
Peel and wash a dozen good turnips, cut them into small square 

* All the purees here described being intended for entries, should be kept firm, that 
they may stand up well when placed in the centre of an entrie. 



58 PUREES OF 

pieces, or slices ; first blanch, and then drain them on a napkin, and 
afterward place them in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
a little sugar and salt ; let them stew gently on a slow fire to extract 
the moisture, turning them occasionally, and taking care that they 
do not become at all colored. When the turnips are nearly melted, 
add a small ladleful of Veloute or Bechamel sauce ; stir the puree with 
a wooden spoon on the fire, in order to reduce it to the consistency 
of a soft paste; then add half a pint of double cream ; reduce the 
puree still further, then rub it through a tammy, next' remove it into 
a small stewpan, and previously to usiug it, make it sufficiently hot, 
mixing in a pat of fresh butter, and serve. 

110. PUREE OF CELERY. 

Cut the white part of six or eight heads of celery into half-inch 
lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, plunge them in fresh 
water, and drain the celery in a napkin ; then place them in a stew- 
pan with two ounces of butter, some white broth, a little sugar, and 
grated nutmeg; cover the celery thus prepared with a round of 
buttered paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire 
to extract the moisture and melt the celery, taking care that in the 
course of process it does not color : when the celery is melted or 
softened, moisten with a ladleful of white sauce, and half a pint of 
cream ; reduce quickly on the fire, stirring the puree the whole time 
with a wooden spoon. As soon as the puree is reduced to its proper 
consistency, proceed immediately to rub it through the tammy, after 
which take it up into a small stewpan ; previously to using it, make 
the puree hot, and mix with it a little double cream and a pinch of 
pounded sugar. 

111. PUREE OF CAULIFLOWERS. 

Cut two or more heads of white fresh cauliflowers into small 
pieces, and after trimming these, boil them in some boiling water 
with a little salt, iniuionette pepper, and a pat of butter ; when done 
drain them on a sieve, and afterward place them in a deep sauta-pan, 
with a large gravy-spoonful of reduced Allemande, or white sauce ; stir 
the puree on the fire with a wooden spoon, and keep it boiling until 
reduced to the consistency of a soft paste. Then instantly rub it 
through a tammy, remove the puree into a small stewpan, and 
previously to using it make it hot, and mix in a little grated nutmeg, 
a pinch of sugar, and a little double cream to whiten it and make it 
more delicate. 

112. PUREE OF SPINACH. 

Pick, wash, and boil a small dish of spinach, refresh it in cold 
water, squeeze it thoroughly free from water, examine it carefully by 
separating it with the point of a kuife on the chopping-board, so as 
to remove any straws, &c, left in it; next pound it well in the 
mortar, and then take it up in a deep sauta-pan, add a small ladleful 
of good white sauce, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a pinch of 
sugar ; reduce the puree over a brisk fire to preserve its color ; rub 
it through a tammy, and remove it into a small stewpan ; just before 
using it make it warm, and add two pats of fresh butter and a small 
piece of glaze. 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 59 

113. PUREE OF SORREL. 

Pick, and well wash the sorrel in several waters ; drain off the 
water, and place the sorrel in a large stevvpan on the fire, stirring it 
the whole time with a wooden spoon ; as soon as the sorrel is melted, 
and has boiled a few minutes, turn it out on to a large hair-sieve, there 
to remain until the water has run off. Next, cut two large onions 
into thin slices, place these in a stewpan, with two ounces of fresh 
butter, and put them to fry of a light color on the stove-fire ; after 
which, add a good tablespoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, some minionette pepper, and salt ; moisten with 
a gravy-spoonful of sauce, either white or brown, then add the sorrel, 
prepared as above directed, and reduce the puree over a brisk fire, 
stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon ; when the sorrel is 
sufficiently reduced, rub it instantly through a tammy, and place it 
in a small stevvpan. Previously to using the puree, make it hot ; add 
a pat of butter and a piece of glaze. 

114. PUREE OF ENDIVE. 

Trim off all the outside leaves of a dozen full white-heart endives ; 
wash them thoroughly, and carefully remove all insects, &c. ; throw 
the endives into a stewpan of boiling water, and, after allowing them 
to remain boiling for the space of twenty minutes, immerse them in 
cold water. When thus cool, squeeze each endive separately, entirely 
extracting the water ; then cut off the root end from each endive, 
and after first chopping the leafy portion, place them in a stewpau 
with two ounces of fresh butter, nutmeg, sugar, and salt ; stir the 
whole over a stove-fire with a wooden spoon for five minutes, moisten 
with a ladleful of white broth, then cover with a round of buttered 
paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to con- 
tinue very gently simmering for half an hour; next add a small 
ladleful of white sauce and half a pint of cream, and reduce the 
puree quickly on a brisk fire ; as soon as it is reduced to its proper 
consistency, instantly remove it into a small stewpan for use. 

This kind of puree is usually rubbed through a coarse hair-sieve in 
preference to a tammy. 

115. PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 
Slit the husks of fifty chestnuts, and place them in a stewpan 
with a piece of butter ; put the lid on the stewpan, and set it on a 
slow fire, taking care, now and then, to toss up the chestnuts, so that 
they may get an equal degree of heat; in about twenty minutes the 
husks will easily peel off, and should then be removed. Put the 
chestnuts into a clean stewpan with a ladleful of good consomme, and 
place the lid thereon ; set them to simmer gently on the corner of 
the stove ; when they are done, pound them in a mortar, take them 
up into a deep sauta-pan, and a little sugar, nutmeg, and half a pint 
of cream ; reduce the puree, and rub it through a tammy on to a dish ; 
remove it into a small stewpan ; and just before using it, make it hot, 
mix in a small pat of butter and a piece of glaze. 

116. PUREE OF POTATOES. 
Peel and wash eight potatoes, cut them into slices, and place them 
in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, some minionette pepper, 



60 PUREES OF 

salt, and a little nutmeg ; moisten with a pint of white broth, put 
the lid on the stewpan, and set it to boil on the fire. By the time 
the broth is reduced, the potatoes will be done ; then add half a pint 
of cream, and with a wooden spoon reduce the purGe on the fire to 
the usual consistency of mashed potatoes ; rub the puree through the 
tammy on to a dish, and then remove it into a small stewpan ; pre- 
viously to using it, add a pat of butter. 

117. PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 

First, pick off the outer leaves of six young full-grown artichokes ; 
then turn, or pare off with a knife, the whole of the outer green pare 
of the bottom of the artichokes, so as to leave it white ; when this is 
finished, rub each artichoke thus turned with a piece of lemon, and 
put them directly into a pan of water with a little vinegar in it. 
Then place the artichokes in a stewpan with boiling water, a little 
butter, lemon-juice, salt, and minionette pepper ; after three-quarters 
of an hour's gentle boiling, take the artichokes up, extract the fibrous 
interior from each, and place them in a deep sauta-pan with a ladleful 
of white sauce, half a pint of cream, nutmeg, a little salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar; reduce the puree quickly over a brisk fire, stirring 
it the whole time with a wooden spoon, and then rub it through a 
tammy ; after which remove it into a small stewpan ; finish with a 
pat of butter, and a small piece of glaze. 

118. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS. 

Break off the tender portions of a bundle of sprue asparagus, wash 
them in a large pan, with a good handful of green onions and double 
that quantity of picked parsley ; set these on the fire to boil in an 
untinned pan half full of boiling water, and throw in a spoonful of 
salt ; as soon as the asparagus are done, drain them in a sieve, and 
remove all the water. Put the asparagus, parsley, and green onions, 
altogether into a deep sauta-pan, with a small ladleful of white sauce, 
the crumb of a French roll (that has previously been soaked in 
water, and afterward pressed in a napkin to remove the moisture), 
some grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar; reduce 
the puree quickly on the fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and 
from thence remove it into a small stewpan, and keep it in the cool 
until wanted for use. Finish by adding a pat of fresh butter, a piece 
of glaze, and some spinach-green, if required, to give it a bright- 
green color. 

119. PUREE OF ONIONS A LA SOUBISE. 

Peel and cut into slices eight large onions, parboil them in water 
for five minutes, drain them on a sieve, immerse them in cold water, 
and press them in a napkin to extract the water ; place them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of butter, nutmeg, minionette pepper, a 
little salt, and a spoonful of white broth ; put a round of buttered 
paper on them, and cover the stewpan with its lid ; and set it on a 
very slow fire to simmer gently for half an hour. Then turn the 
onions out into a deep sauta-pan, moisten with a small ladleful of 
good white sauce, and half a pint of cream, reduce the pur&e quickly 
on a sharp fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and take it up 
into a small stewpan. Just before using it, add a pinch of sugar. 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING. 61 

When this puree is required to be made very firm and thick, it is 
necessary to increase the quantity of onious used for the purpose, and 
to add a couple of hot mealy potatoes. 

120. PUREE OF TOMATAS. 

Cut four ounces of raw ham into small pieces, and place them in a 
stewpan with two shalots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two cloves, a 
blade of mace, and a few peppercorns ; add a small piece of butter, and 
fry these ingredients on the fire of a light color ; to this add either a 
dozen squeezed ripe tomatas, or a sufficient quantity of preserve of 
tomatas, and a small ladleful of Veloute sauce ; reduce the puree thus 
prepared on a quick fire ; then rub it through a tammy, and place it 
in a small stewpan for use. Finish by adding a little glaze and a 
small piece of fresh butter, just before sending to table. 

121. PUREE OF TRUFFLES. 

First peel and then pound ten ounces of truffles ; put them into 
a stewpan with a pat of butter, half a bay -leaf, a sprig of thyme, some 
grated nutmeg, and a very small clove of garlic ; set these on the 
stove to simmer for a few minutes, then add a small ladleful of brown 
sauce and a small piece of glaze ; reduce the puree quickly, and rub. it 
through the tammy on to a dish ; remove it from thence into a small 
bain-marie for use. 

Omit the garlic, should its flavor be objectionable. 

122. PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Clean a pottle of white button mushrooms, chop them up, adding 
meanwhile the juice of half a lemon to prevent them from turning 
black ; when chopped fine, place them in a deep sauta-pan with a pat 
of butter, and with a wooden spoon stir them on the fire for five min- 
utes ; moisten with a ladleful of good white sauce, reduce the puree 
quickly, and then add half a pint of double cream ; stir the puree on 
the fire for five minutes longer, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, 
and from thence remove it into a small stewpan for use. 

123. PUREE OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Boil a good plateful of Brussels sprouts, place them in a deep 
sauta-pan with a ladleful of good white sauce, nutmeg, minionette 
pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar ; reduce the whole on a brisk 
fire, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; rub the puree through 
a tammy in the usual manner, and afterward put it into a small stew- 
pan ; previously to using the puree, add a little spinach-green, a pat 
of butter, and a piece of glaze. 

124. PUREE OF CUCUMBERS. 

Mince two ounces of lean ham, place it in a small stewpan with a 
pat of butter, a little nutmeg, and a few peppercorns ; to these add 
four cucumbers, trimmed and cut up for the purpose ; set the stewpan 
on a slow fire, there to simmer for twenty minutes, at the expiration 
of which time add a small ladleful of white sauce ; reduce the puree 
quickly on a brisk stove, and when it assumes the appearance of a soft 
paste, pour in half a pint of good sweet double cream and a teaspoon- 
ful of sugar ; reduce the puree for five miuutes longer on the fire, and 



62 



GARNISHES 



then rub it through the tammy in the usual manner, and take it up 
into a small stewpan for use. 

125. PUREE OF FRENCH BEANS. 

Shred a good plateful of French beans, boil them quickly of a green 
color, taking care to boil with them a handful of picked parsley and 
a few green onions ; when they are done, drain the whole on a sieve, 
and afterward place them in a deep santa-pan with a gravy-spoonful 
of good white sauce, a piece of glaze, and a little sugar ; reduce the 
puree on the fire, and then rub it through a tammy, take it up into a 
small stewpan, and just before using it mix in a small pat of butter and 
a little spinach-green. 

126. PUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

This puree is made exactly in the same manner as the puHe of 
potatoes, merely substituting Jerusalem artichokes for potatoes. 

127. PUREE OF SEAKALE. 

Boil a punnet of good white seakale, and drain it on a napkin ; cut 
it into half-inch lengths,; and place it in a stewpan with two ounces 
of fresh butter, some minionette pepper, nutmeg, salt, a little sugar, 
and some white broth ; place thereon a round of buttered paper, and 
cover the stewpan with its lid ; set it on a moderate fire to simmer 
for twenty minutes, then add a small ladleful of good white sauce ; 
reduce the puree quickly to the condition of a soft paste, and then 
add half a pint of cream ; after reducing it five minutes longer, rub 
the puree through the tammy, and take it up into a small stewpan for 
use. 



VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING, 



COMPRISING 



Garnish of Truffles in Glaze. 

„ d la Parisienne. 

„ in Supreme. 

„ of whole Truffles. 

„ Mushrooms d V Allemande. 

„ do. in Enpagnole. 

„ of young Carrots. 
„ Carrots cut in fancy shapes. 

„ Turnips. 

„ Carrots and Turnips d la At- 

vcrnaise. 
„ Cucumbers in scollops. 

„ Cucumbers farcis, 

„ Celery d la crime. 

„ Celery d V Espagnole. 

,, Young Carrots d la Flamande. 

„ White Macidoine of vegetables. 

„ Brown do. 

„ Green Pens. 

,, Stewed Peas. 



Garnish of Asparagus-heads. 

„ Asparagus Peas. 

„ Button Onions, for matelotte. 

„ White Button Onions. 

„ Windsor Beans. 

„ French Beans. 

„ Artichoke Bottoms. 

„ Glazed Onions. 

„ Brocoli, or Cauliflower. 

„ Brussels Sprouts. 

„ Chestnuts for roast Turkey. 

„ Jerusalem Artichokes. 

„ Cloves of Garlic. 

„ White Haricot-Beans. 

„ Red Haricot-Benns. 

„ Braized Cabbage Lettuces. 

„ Braized Cabbages. 

„ Stewed Red Callages. 

„ Sauerkraut. 

„ Sauerkraut d la Francait*. 



OF VEGETABLES. 63 

128. GARNISH OF TRUFFLES IN GLAZE. 

Cut about one pound of truffles in various fancy shapes, such as 
small round balls, olives, or like quarters of orange, small pillars, 
and circular scollops ; place them in a small stewpan, with a little 
fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a piece of glaze ; put on the lid of 
the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to simmer for five or ten 
minutes ; toss the truffles thus prepared in their glaze, and use them 
to garnish the centre of an entree, or for any other appropriate pur- 
pose. 

129. GARXI3H OF TRUFFLES A LA PARI3IEXXE. 

Prepare the truffles as directed in the foregoing case, and, having 
boiled them down in their glaze, add a good ragout-spoonful of 
Parisian sauce (Xo. 40). 

130. GARXI3H OF TRUFFLES WITH SUPREME SAUCE. 

Prepare the truffles in fancy shapes, simmer them with a small 
quantity of butter and glaze, and boil them down in their glaze ; then 
add a spoonful of Supreme sauce. This garnish may be served with 
all entrees, fillets of poultry, or game. 

131. GARXISH OF WHOLE TRUFFLES. 

Brush and clean any quantity required of fine fresh truffles, boil 
them in a wine mirepoix (for making which see Xo. 23C) — one hour's 
gentle boiling will suffice; just before using them, take the truffles out 
of the mirepoix, glaze them, and dispose them round or about the 
entree or remove in a circle or in groups. 

132. GARXISH OF MUSHROOMS IX ALLEMAXDE SAUCE. 

Clean and turn a pottle of mushrooms, put them into a small stew- 
pan with an ounce of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and 
about two tablespoonsful of water; boil them quickly on the fire for 
five minutes, drain the mushrooms, and put them into a bain-marie con- 
taining a large ragout-spoonful of Allemande sauce; reduce the liquor 
the mushrooms were boiled in, and add it to the mushrooms. This 
garnish is proper for all white entrees, and especially for entrees of 
game or fowl a la Dauphine or a la Villeroi. 

133. GARNISH OF MUSHROOMS IX ESPAGXOLE SAUCE. 

Prepare the mushrooms as directed in the foregoing recipe, drain 
them on a napkin, and place them in a stewpan or bain-marie, with 
sufficient finished Espagnole sauce, according to the quantity required, 
adding the essence of the mushrooms, cleared from the butter, and re- 
duced. This sauce is appropriate for every kind of brown entree. 

134. GARXISn OF YOUXG CARROTS. 

Turn a bunch of young carrots, keeping them in their own shape, 
as far as may be consistent with uniformity of size; boil them in 
water for three minutes, drain them on a sieve, place them in a stew- 
pan with an ounce of sugar, a pat of butter and a little salt ; moisten 

* This is the foundation of all garnishes of truffles and mushrooms : an infinite vnriety 
may be made by adding to the truffles prepared as above some special sauce, the addi- 
tion of which will then give its name to the garnish. 



64 GARNISHES 

with a pint of broth or consomme, and set them to boil on the stove- 
fire ; when they are done, boil them down quickly to a glaze, roll the 
carrots in this glaze, and use them to garnish the intended dish. 

135. GARNISH OF CARROTS IN OLIVES, ETC. 

Scrape and wash four good carrots, cut the red part, either with a 
small root-knife, vegetable scoop, or cutter, into various fancy shapes, 
as olives, small round balls, pillars, half-moons, diamonds, or fluted 
shapes ; parboil, drain, and prepare them as directed above ; finish 
them in the same manner, and, having run them down in ther own 
glaze, either use them as they are, or else add a ragout-spoonful of 
Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or, indeed, any other kind of sauce 
that may be appropriate for the dish they are meant to garnish. 

136. GARNISH OF TURNIPS. 

Peel four turnips, cut or turn them into fancy shapes, as directed 
in the preceding article, boil them for three minutes, drain them on 
a napkin, place them in a stewpan, with a little sugar, salt, and a small 
pat of butter ; moisten with some white broth, put them on the stove, 
and, when they are nearly done, boil them down quickly in their glaze, 
without allowing them to acquire much color. These turnips may be 
used for a garnish, merely rolled in their own glaze, or a spoonful of 
either Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or finished Espagnole sauce 
may be added. 

137. GARNISH OF CARROTS AND TURNIPS A LA NIVERNAISE. 

Cut or turn the red part of three carrots into the shape of small 
olives or round balls, place these in a small sauta-pan, with a little 
clarified butter and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar; fry them on the 
stove-fire, so as to give them a light color, then place them on a sieve 
to drain off the butter, and put them into a small stewpan, with a 
piece of fresh butter, a little sugar, and salt ; moisten them with some 
consomme, and set them to boil gradually until nearly done, when they 
must boil rapidly to glaze. Having thus disposed of the carrots, pre- 
pare an equal quantity of turnips, cut in a similar shape, and boil them 
down to a glaze, similarly to the carrots, and when both are done, mix 
them together, and use them for entrees of braized mutton, beef, or 
any sort of cutlets. 

138. GARNISH OF CUCUMBERS IN SCOLLOPS. 

Cut three cucumbers into inch lengths ; divide each piece, length- 
wise, into two or more pieces, according to the size of the cucumber, 
so that, when trimmed, they should be rather larger in size than a 
shilling ; in trimming them, first scoop out the seedy part with a 
small root-knife, then peel off the green rind and pare away the 
angles slightly, so as to give them a somewhat rounded appearance. 
Next, place them in a basin, with two spoonsful of French vinegar 
aud one of salt, and allow them to remain in this pickle, or marinade, 
for about a couple of hours, then drain them on a sieve, and place 
them in a stewpan, with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, and a 
ragout-spoonful of white consomme ; set them on a slow live to sim- 
mer gently for half an hour, when they will be nearly done ; boil 
them down quickly to a glaze, and keep them separately until they 



OF VEGETABLES. 65 

are wanted for immediate use ; then set them on the fire to boil, in 
order to absorb any moisture they may have thrown out, previously to 
adding a ragout-spoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or brown 
sauce, as the case may require. * 

139. GARNISH OF CUCUMBERS FARCIS. 

Cut three or more cucumbers into two-inch lengths, with a vege- 
table cutter, scoop out the seeds and peel off the green rind, pare 
away the sharp angles at the. ends, and then parboil them in water 
for three minutes, plunge them in cold water, and put them to drain 
on a napkin ; then fill up the cavities with some quenelle force-meat 
of fowls. Next garnish the bottom of a deep sauta-pan with some 
thin layers of fat bacon ; place therein the cucumbers thus prepared, 
and in the centre put a fagot of parsley and green onions ; cover 
the whole with layers of fat bacon, and moisten with some white 
consomme of chicken. Let them simmer very gently on a slow fire 
for about an hour, aud just before the cucumbers are wanted for use, 
drain them on a napkin, and then put them into another sauta-pau 
with their own liquor, freed from all grease, and afterward reduced 
to a demi-glaze ; just roll the cucumbers lightly in this glaze over a 
sharp fire, so as to cause the glaze to adhere to them, and thus give 
them a bright appearance. 

This kind of garnish of cucumbers is frequently used for whole 
entrees and removes, such as larded entrees of sweetbreads,./Wcanc7eaM#, 
fillet of beef, carbonades, fowls, &c, &c. 

140. GARNISH OF CELERY A LA CREME. 

Trim and well wash six heads of full-sized white celery, cut them into 
half-inch lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, drain them on a 
sieve, and immerse them in cold water : then place them on a napkin. 
Next, put the celery in a stewpan with a lump of sugar, a pat of butter, 
a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten with a ladleful of white 
consomme, and set it to boil gently on a stove-fire for about an hour ; 
as soon as the celery is well done, boil it down in its glaze, and then 
add a spoonful of good reduced Bechamel sauce. 

When this garnish is required as a sauce for fowls, &c, it will be 
necessary to increase the quantity of Bechamel sauce, and also to add 
a little cream. 

141. GARNISH OF CELERY A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Prepare the celery as directed in the foregoing article, and when it 
is thoroughly done, add a ragout-spoonful of finished Espagnole sauce 
and a small piece of glaze. 

142. GARNISH OF YOUNG CARROTS A LA FLAMANDE. 

Turn a bunch of young carrots into the shape of small pears, boil 
them in water for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, and then 
place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, one ounce of sugar, a 
little salt, and grated nutmeg ; moisten with a ladleful of consomme, 
and set them to boil gently on a stove-fire for half an hour ; as soon 
as they are done, boil them down to a glaze, and then add a ragout- 
spoonful of good Allemande sauce, and a spoonful of blanched parsley 
4 



66 GARNISHES 

leaves. This kind of garnish is very appropriate for braized beef, lamb, 
and hams. 

143. WHITE MACEDOINE OF VEGETABLES. 

Prepare some carrots and turnips in fancy shapes of small size, let 
each sort be separately boiled down to a glaze in a little broth, with 
the addition of a little sugar and salt, and a very small piece of butter ; 
when done, put the whole together in a small sauta-pan ; to these add 
a cucumber cut up and prepared for the purpose in scollops, a spoon- 
ful of boiled green peas, a spoonful of French beans cut in the shape 
of diamonds, a spoonful of asparagus heads boiled green, and also 
some very small flowrets of boiled cauliflower ; add a gravy-spoonful 
of Allemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, a little nutmeg and sugar ; 
shake the whole lightly together over the stove-fire, and use this garnish 
for the entree intended. 

144. GARNISH OF BROWN MACEDOINE. 

Prepare the vegetables for the Macedoine according to the direc- 
tions given in the preceding recipe ; when nearly ready, use some 
finished Espagnole sauce, instead of the other sauces there mentioned. 

145. GARNISH OF GREEN PEAS. 

Boil about a pint of young peas, drain them, and place them in a 
sauta-pan, then add a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, a pinch of sugar, 
a little chopped and blanched mint, some nutmeg, a pat of butter, and 
a piece of glaze ; shake the whole up well together over the fire, and 
serve them in the centre of an entree. 

146. GARNISH OF STEWED PEAS. 

Put a quart of young peas into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh 
butter, on these pour a quart of cold spring water, and commence 
kneading the peas and butter -together, with the hand, in the water; as 
soon as all the butter adheres to the peas, pour the water off, and then 
add a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little salt, an onion, and a fagot 
of parsley, and green onions ; set the peas to stew on a moderate fire ; 
when they are done, set them on a brisk fire to boil quickly, in order 
that they may, by this means, absorb all their moisture ; then add a 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce, with a pat of butter, and dish them up in 
the centre of an entree. 

147. GARNISH OF ASPARAGUS HEADS. 

Trim and cut the heads of as many asparagus as may be required, 
boil them green, and drain them on a napkin, then place them in a 
sauta-pan with a spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little sugar, nutmeg, 
and a piece of glaze ; toss them gently over the fire, and serve. 

148. GARNISH OF ASPARAGUS PEAS. 

Cut a bundle of sprue asparagus into peas, boil them green, and 
follow the directions contained in the foregoing article. 

149. GARNISH OF BUTTON ONIONS FOR MATELOTTE. 

Peel a pint of small button onions, . boil them in water for five 
minutes, drain them on a napkin, and afterward place them in a small 



OF VEGETABLES. 67 

stewpan with some clarified butter and a little pounded sugar; then 
place the stewpan on a slow fire, and fry the onions of a light-brown 
color, taking care to toss them up now and then that they may be 
equally colored ; when sufficiently colored they will be nearly done. 
Then place them on a sieve to allow the butter to drain, and put them 
in a small stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little consomme; 
lastly, set them on the fire and boil them down to a glaze. 

150. GARNISH OF WHITE BUTTON ONIONS. 

Peel and blanch a pint of small button onions, put them into a 
stewpan with a pat of. butter, a lump of sugar, a little salt, and a 
ladleful of white broth ; set them on the fire to boil gently for half an 
hour, then boil them down quickly to a glaze, and finish by adding a 
spoonful of Allemande sauce. 

151. GARNISH OF WINDSOR BEANS. 

Boil a quart of young Windsor beans, peel off their husks, and place 
them in a sauta-pan with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a pat 
of butter, and a spoonful of Bechamel sauce ; throw in a spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley, "and a little winter savory ; shake 
the whole well together over the fire, and place them in the centre of 
an entree. 

152. GARNISH OF FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut a plateful of French beans into the shape of diamonds, boil 
them green, drain them on a napkin, and then put them into a sauta- 
pan with a pat of butter, a little pepper and salt, a spoonful of white 
sauce, and S, little lemon-juice ; toss them well together on the fire, and 
serve. 

153. GARNISH OF ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 

Remove the outer leaves from four artichokes, pare off with a knife 
the green surface from the bottom of the artichokes, so as to render 
them smooth and white ; rub over each artichoke as it is finished with 
lemon-juice, and instantly throw it into a basin of water in which a 
little vinegar has been mixed ; then boil thera in a stewpan containing 
hot water, a piece of butter, minionette pepper, salt, and a little lemon- 
juice. When they are done, take them out, and after allowing them to 
cool, extract the hay or inside fibres ; trim them, and divide each arti- 
choke into six pieces. Then place them in a sauta-pan with a spoonful 
of Supreme sauce, a pat of butter, a little cream glaze, nutmeg, and 
sugar ; toss them gently on the fire, and when the whole is well mixed, 
serve. 

154. GARNISH OF GLAZED ONIONS. 

Peel eighteen onions, of a similar size, with a small vegetable cutter, 
scoop out the heads of their roots — perforating the onions through — 
and extracting the centre from each ; boil them from three to five min- 
utes in water, drain them on a napkin, and then place them in a sauta- 
pan well buttered, add a little sugar, and sufficient broth to cover the 
onions; set them on the stove to boil, and afterward remove them to 
a slow fire, or place them in the oven, to simmer gently down to a 
glaze. Take care to turn the onions over in their glaze occasionally, 
so that they may become equally colored. 



68 GARNISHES 

155. GARNISH OF BROCOLI OF CAULIFLOWERS. 

Cut one or more heads of cauliflower or brocoli into small buds, 
trim these and boil them in a stewpan with some butter, salt, and a little 
minionette pepper, in the water; when they are done, drain them on 
a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a little Allemande or Bechamel 
sauce and serve. 

156. GARNISH OF BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Boil a plateful of Brussels sprouts, drain them well, and put them 
into a stewpan with a spoonful of white sauce, two pats of butter, salt, 
nutmeg, minionette pepper, and lemon-juice ; toss the whole well 
together over the fire, and serve. 

157. GARNISH OF CHESTNUTS FOR ROAST TURKEY. 

Slit the husks of fifty chestnuts, and put them into a stewpan with 
a little clarified butter, fry them on a slow fire until the husks easily 
peel off from the chestnuts ; clean them thoroughly, and place them in 
a stewpan with two lumps of sugar, a little salt, a pat of butter, and a 
ladleful of good consomme; set them to boil, and then place them by 
the side of the fire to continue boiling gently until they are nearly 
done ; then boil them down to a glaze ; occasionally tossing them over, 
so as to cover them with their own glaze, and give them a bright shiny 
appearance. 

158. GARNISH OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Peel a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, and then turn or cut them into 
the shape of olives, small pillars, cloves of garlic, half moons, round 
balls, quarters of orange, or diamonds ; first wash them, place them 
in a stewpan with a little sugar, salt, a pat of butter, and a ladleful 
of white broth ; set them to boil on the fire for about twenty minutes ; 
when they are nearly done, boil them down in their glaze, add a little 
Allemande or Bechamel sauce, toss them together over the fire, and 
serve. 

159. GARNISH OF CLOVES OF GARLIC. 

Peel as many heads of garlic as will produce a pint of cloves,* 
boil these for ten minutes in plenty of water, drain them on to a sieve, 
and then place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, some minio- 
nette pepper, a little salt, and a ladleful of consomme ; boil them gently 
until they are nearly done, then let them boil down quickly to a glaze ; 
add a spoonful of Allemande or Espagnole sauce (according to the 
color of the entree), and a little lemon-juice ; toss them up over a stove- 
fire, and serve. 

160. GARNISH OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Fresh white haricot beans, in their proper season, form a very excel- 
lent change among the more ordinary vegetables. Its cultivation is, 
however, much neglected by gardeners in England. 

When fresh haricot beans are not procurable, get a pint of dried 
haricot beans, and steep them in cold water for twelve hours ; let 
them be washed and placed in a stewpan with a pat of butter, miu- 

* A head of gnrlic contains within its outer husk, or skin, a number of triangular 
seeds, usually called cloves of garlic. 



OF VEGETABLES. 69 

ionette pepper, salt, and two quarts of cold water; set them to boil 
gently by the side of a stove for about an hour ; when done, drain them 
on to a sieve, place them in a clean stewpan with a pat of butter, a 
gravy-spoonful of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and 
a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley ; shake them well together 
over the fire, and serve. 

161. GARNISH OP BED HARICOT BEANS. 

These should be prepared exactly in the same manner as the white 
beans. There is, also, a species of small brown peas, called lentils — to 
be had of all oilmen, which may be prepared after the same method as 
the haricot beans. They are useful in the winter season, when there is 
a scarcity of fresh vegetables. 

162. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and thoroughly cleanse four good Savoy cabbages, cut 
them in halves, and boil them in water for a quarter of an hour; refresh 
them in cold water, drain them, and place them on a napkin ; cut the 
stalks away, season them with salt and minionette pepper, tie them up 
with a string — joining two halves together ; cover the bottom of a 
stewpan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the cabbages in it ; add a 
carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a fagot of parsley, thyme, 
and bay-leaf ; moisten with sufficient broth to cover the cabbages, and 
spread a buttered round of paper over the whole ; then set them on 
the fire to boil, place the lid on the stewpan and allow it to remain 
gently boiling on a very slow fire for about an hour, when they will be 
done. Then drain the cabbage on to a sieve, remove the strings, press 
it in a napkin so as to be able, afterward, to cut it into square, oblong, 
round, or oval shapes, according to taste; and therewith garnish the 
entree or remove it is intended for. 

163. GARNISH OF STEWED RED CABBAGES. 

Trim, wash, and quarter a couple of red cabbages, shred them as yon 
would if about to make pickled cabbage ; then put about four ounces 
of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, and place the shred cabbages in 
it ; season with minionette pepper and salt, and half a gill of French 
vinegar, cover the stewpan with its lid, and set it on a moderate fire to 
stew gently ; take care to stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon. 
When the cabbage has, by melting, been reduced to half its original 
quantity, moisten with a large-sized ladleful of topping from the boiling 
stockpot, to nourish the cabbage ; allow it to simmer gently on a slow 
fire for an hour longer ; then drain the cabbage on a sieve, afterward 
press it in a napkin to extract the butter, &c, and use it for the purpose 
of garnishing the entree or remove for which it has been prepared. 

164. GARNISH OF BRAIZED CABBAGE LETTUCES. 

Trim, wash, and blanch a dozen full white-heart cabbage lettuces ; 
drain them on a napkin, cut and spread them open, season with pepper 
and salt, tie them up with a string, and place them in a stewpan on thin 
layers of fat bacon; add a carrot, a fagot of parsley and green onions, 
and an onion stuck with two cloves ; cover with a buttered round of 
paper, and moisten with the toppings of white stock. Allow them to 



70 GARNISHES. 

boil gently by the side of the fire for an hour, drain them on a sieve, 
remove the strings, press them neatly in a napkin, and open each 
lettuce with a knife ; then smooth the inner part, and with the knife 
turn the ends of the leaves under so as to give to the lettuce a smooth 
rounded end ; cut off the stalk neatly, and place each lettuce succes- 
sively in a clean santa-pan ; next pass their liquor through a sieve into 
a stewpan, remove every particle of grease, and boil it down to the con- 
sistency of half-glaze ; add it to the lettuces, cover them with a buttered 
paper, and a quarter of an hour previously to their being required for 
use, set them in the oven to get warm. 

165. SAUERKRAUT. 

Procure two pounds of fresh imported sauerkraut, wash it tho- 
roughly in several waters, and then drain it in a colander. Next, put 
it into a stewpan with oue pound of parboiled streaky bacon, one pound 
of German sansage, two carrots, two onions stuck with two cloves each, 
and a garnished fagot of parsley; cover with a round of buttered 
paper, and moisten with a quart of stockpot toppings. Braize the 
sauerkraut for about three hours over a slow fire; and when done, drain 
it in a colander, remove the bacon and German sausage, throw away 
the carrot, onion, aud fagot ; then put the sauerkraut into a stewpan 
with a gravy-spoonful of Poivrade sauce, toss it over the fire, and use 
it to garnish the intended dish. 

166. FRENCH SAUERKRAUT. 

Split four white-heart cabbages into quarters, remove the cores, and 
shred them up fine; wash them thoroughly in several waters, then drain 
them in a colander. Next, place the shred cabbages in a large earthen 
pan, throw in a good handful of salt and one pint of viuegar; toss tlie 
cabbage in this, and allow it to steep for three hours ; then wash and 
drain it, and put it into a large stewpan, season with half a pound uf 
butter, some minionette pepper, a little salt, and a gill of French 
vinegar ; place on the top one pound of streaky bacon, and one pound 
of German sausage, moisten with a quart of good stock, cover the whole 
with buttered paper, and then set the sauerkraut to braize very gently 
over a slow fire for two hours ; and when it is done, proceed in the 
same manner as directed in the previous article. 



71 



ESSENCES, GRAVIES, AND PREPARED SAVORY BUT- 
TERS FOR FINISHING SAUCES, &c, 

COMPRISING 

Essence of Shalots. Essence of Sage and Onions for geese and 
„ Truffles. ducks. 

„ Mushrooms. „ Onions for broiled pork. 

„ Fine Herbs for broiled meats. ,, Anchovy butter. 

„ Orange for wild fowl. Ravigotte butter. 

„ Aspic-jelly. Prnvenf;ale do. 

„ Woodcocks. Lobster do. 

,, Game for broiled partridges, &c. Montpellier do. 

„ Garlic for broiled fowls, &c. Crayfish do. 

„ Anchovies for broiled steaks, Green ravigotte do. 

&c. Epicurean do. 

167. ESSENCE OF SHALOTS. 

Peel a dozen shalots, cut them into thin slices, and place them in a 
small stewpan with two tablespoonsful of French vinegar; set them to 
simmer gently on the fire until the vinegar is nearly boiled down ; then 
moisten with a pint of consommH, set the essence on the fire to boil, and 
when it is reduced to half its original quantity, strain it with pressure 
through a napkin into a bain-marie, and keep it hot till wanted. 

168. ESSENCE OF TRUFFLES. 

Chop or pound four ounces of truffles — or if you have any trimmings, 
use them instead ; place them in a small stewpan with half a bay-leaf, 
a sprig of thyme, and a very small quantity of bruised garlic ; moisten 
with a glass of French white wine, and allow the whole to simmer on 
the fire till the wine is nearly boiled down; add half a pint of good 
consomme ; set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire for ten 
minutes, and then pass it with pressure through a napkin or tammy 
into a small basin or stewpan. 

This essence will be found extremely useful for flavoring sauces and 
ragouts, in which the flavor of truffles should predominate. 

169. ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Chop any quantity of mushrooms, place these in a stewpan with a 
little lemon-juice and a small piece of butter, simmer them on the fire 
for two or three minutes, and then moisten with a ladleful of white 
broth ; set the essence to boil gently on the stove for ten minutes, and 
then pass it with pressure through a sieve into a basin for use. 

This essence is useful for flavoring sauces. 

170. ESSENCE OF FINE HERBS FOR BROILED MEATS, ETC. 

Chop six shalots, a handful of mushrooms, and the same quantity 
of parsley, each separately; place these in a small stewpan with a sprig 
of thyme, half a bay-leaf, and a small piece of butter; put the whole 
on the fire to simmer gently for two or three minutes, stirring the 
ingredients with a wooden spoon ; moisten with the juice of half a 



72 ESSENCES AND GRAVIES 

lemon and a ladleful of strong consomme ; add a little minionette 
pepper, and then set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire 
till it is reduced to half its original quantity ; then pass it with pressure 
through a sieve, and use it as a gravy for plain broiled bread-crumbed 
entrees. 

171. ESSENCE OF ORANGE FOR WILD FOWL. 

Chop two shalots and put them into a small stewpan with the rind 
of an orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped 
lean of raw ham and cayenne pepper ; moisten with two glasses of port 
wine and a little strong gravy; set the essence to simmer gently on the 
fire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little 
lemon-juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. 

172. ESSENCE OF ASPIC-JELLY. 

Put the following ingredients into a small stewpan : a few branches 
of green tarragon, a little chervil, a handful of chives, a bay-leaf, and 
sprig of thyme, mignionette pepper, a blade of mace, and a little 
chopped raw lean of ham ; moisten with a large ladleful of good con- 
somme ; set the essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for about 
ten minutes. Next, take it off the stove, proceed to clarify by mixing 
with it half the white of an egg whipped up with a spoonful of water; 
add a spoonful of tarragon-vinegar, and place it on the fire to boil, 
whipping it with a wire whisk the while ; as soon as it boils up, 
remove it on the side, to continue boiling gently in order to set the 
es:a ; then strain it through a napkip, and use it for braized fowls or 
chickens a VEstragon or d Vlvoire. 

173. ESSENCE OF WOODCOCKS. 

Chop up any carcasses of woodcocks or snipes that may be left from 
the previous day's dinner, place them in a small stewpan with four 
shalots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, mignionette pepper, a little 
mace, and a small piece of butter; fry the whole on the stove-fire till 
the ingredients become lightly colored ; moisten with a small glass of 
white wine; and after allowing it to boil down to a glaze, add a ladleful 
of good consomme, and set the essence to boil gently on the side of the 
five for half an hour ; skim and strain it through a silk sieve, and finish 
by adding a little lemon-juice. 

This essence or gravy should be sent to table with roasted wood- 
cocks or snipes ; it will also be found useful for making a light hash 
of remnants of woodcocks or snipes, for breakfast. 

174. ESSENCE OF GAME FOR BROILED PARTRIDGES, ETC. 

This essence is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, 
substituting the remnants or carcasses of pheasants or partridges, for 
woodcocks. 

175. ESSENCE OF GARLIC FOR BROILED FOWL. 

Chop a little raw lean of ham, some parsley, thyme, and a bay- 
leaf ; place these in a small stewpan with a blade of mace, two 
pounded anchovies, and six cloves of garlic ; moisten with two tea- 
spoonsful of French vinegar, and set the whole on the fire to simmer 
gently for five minutes ; add a small piece of glaze and a ladleful of 



FOR FINISHING SAUCES. 73 

good blond of veal, and allow the essence to boil gently by the side of 
the fire for a quarter of an hour ; reduce it to half its original quantity, 
and then strain it through a tammy into a small stewpan ; finish by 
adding a little lemon -juice and cayenne pepper. 

176. ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES FOR STEAKS, ETC. 

Wash and clean six anchovies, pound them in a mortar, with a 
tablespoonful of capers and two shalots ; place these in a small 
stewpan with thyme and a bay-leaf, mace, minionette pepper, and 
two tablespoonsful of mushroom catsup ; set these ingredients on the 
fire to simmer gently for five minutes, and then moisten with a ladle- 
ful of good consomme ; boil the whole till reduced to half its original 
quantity, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into a small 
stewpan ; finish by adding a small piece of glaze and a little lemon- 
juice. 

177. ESSENCE OF SAGE AND ONIONS FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. 

Chop two large onions and a dozen sage-leaves separately, put them 
into a small stewpau with a pat of butter, some pepper and salt, and 
fry them on a slow fire ; as soon as the onion begins to get lightly 
colored, moisten with a ladleful of blond of veal, and allow the essence 
to boil on the fire till reduced to half the quantity ; strain it through a 
tammy into a small stepwan for use. 

This gravy may also be used for bread-crumbled entrees of broiled 
pork. 

178. ESSENCE OF ONIONS FOR BROILED PORK. 

Cut three onions into slices, and fry them in a small stewpan with a 
little butter, pepper, and salt; when they are of a light color, moisten 
with a ladleful* of blond of veal ; reduce the essence by boiling to half 
its quantity, and strain it into a bain-marie for use. 

179. ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Wash and wipe dry six anchovies, separate the fillets from the 
bones, and pound them in a mortar, with two pats of butter and a 
little cayenne pepper; rub this mixture through a hair-sieve, gather 
this up and keep it in a small basin for use, in a cool place. 

180. RAVIGOTTE BUTTER. 

Wash and wipe four anchovies, blanch a good handful of green 
tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley ; press these in a napkin 
to expunge the water ; and put the anchovies, herbs, two pats of 
butter, a spoonful of capers, a little cayenne pepper, and a pinch of 
salt, into a mortar, and pound them well together; then rub the mix- 
ture through a hair-sieve, gather it up, and keep in a small basin on 
the ice for use. 

181. PROVENCALE BUTTER. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, adding, how- 
ever, four cloves of garlic to the other ingredients. 

* Whenever the term ladleful occurs in the course of this work it refers to a bowl- 
shaped spoon, capable of holding about a pint. 



74 ESSENCES AND GRAVIES. 

182. LOBSTER BUTTER. 

Procure some lobster spawn or coral, and pound it with twice as 
much butter, one anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper ; rub it through 
a hair-sieve, collect it into a small basin, and keep it in a cool place 
till wanted for use. 

183. MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Blanch some tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley, a hand- 
ful of each ; expunge the water, and pound them with the yelks of six 
boiled eggs, six cleaned anchovies, two tablespoonsful of French capers, 
and half a dozen green gherkins ; when these ingredients are thoroughly 
pounded together, mix in six ounces of fresh butter, then add, by 
degrees, two tablespoonsful of Tarragon-vinegar, and six of salad-oil ; 
season with pepper and salt ; rub the butter thus prepared through a 
sieve or tammy, color it with some spinach-green, and keep it in a 
basin on the ice till wanted for use. 

184. CRAYFISH BUTTER. 

Remove the shells from three or four dozen crayfish, place them 
on a baking-sheet in the oven to dry ; let the shells cool, and then 
pound them in a mortar, with a little lobster coral and four ounces 
of fresh butter ; thoroughly bruise the whole well together, so as to 
form them into a kind of paste, put this into a stewpan, and then set it 
on the stove-fire to simmer for about five minutes; then rub it 
through a tammy with considerable pressure into a basin containing 
some cold water, with a piece of ice in it ; as soon as the colored 
crayfish butter is become set, through the coldness of the water, 
take it out, and put it into a small basin in a cool place till wanted 
for use. 

185. GREEN RAVIGOTTE BUTTER. 

Blanch a handful of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley ; 
press them in a napkin, and pound them with four ounces of fresh 
butter, cayenne pepper and salt ; rub the butter through a hair-sieve, 
aud keep it on the ice in a small basin for use. 

186. EPICUREAN BUTTER FOR THE TABLE. 

Pound four cleaned anchovies, a few chives, a good teaspoonful of 
green tarragon-leaves, four green West India gherkins, two boiled 
yelks of eggs, three ounces of butter, and a good teaspoonful of 
French mustard ; mix thoroughly, season with little salt, and rub 
the butter through a hair-sieve ; gather it up into a small basin, 
make it sufficiently firm by keeping it on the ice, and mould it into 
pats for the purpose of being sent to table to be served with the 
cheese. 






75 



RAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL, 

COMPRISING 

Toulouse ragout. Ragout of soft roes of mackerel. 

Financxire do. Cardinal ragout. 

Calf's head do. d la Tortue. Ragout of scollops of soles. 

Ghipolata do. Do. of salmon or trout. 

Strasbourg do. of fat livers. Parisian ragout. 

PSrigueux do. Ragout of scollops of game, «GC. 

Matelotte do. Do. of larks. 

Do. Normande do. Do. of cock's kernels, d la Soubise. 

Rourguignotte do. Richelieu ragout. 

Crayfish do. Ragout of chicken's wings. 

Rouinaite do. Do. of ox palates. 

Ragout of scollops of sweetbreads. Do. of sheep's tongues, d Vicariate. 
Regent's ragout. 

187. TOULOUSE EAGOUT. 

Prepare some fine large white cocks' combs and kernels, button 
mushrooms, small scollops of sweetbread, and a proportionate 
quantity of truffles turned in the shape of scollops or olives ; place 
these in a small stewpan, and add thereto a small ladleful of Alle- 
mande or Supreme sauce ; toss the whole together over the fire a few 
minutes, it will then be ready for use. 

188. FINANCIERE RAGOUT. 

Place in a stewpan a similar ragout to the foregoing, with an equal 
portion of small quenelles, and add a small ladleful of well-finished 
Financiere sauce ; allow the whole to boil slightly on the fire. Use 
this ragout for garnishing the remove or entree, as the case may be. 

189. calf's head ragout a la tortue. 

Put a large gravy-spoonful of fine white cocks' combs into a bain- 
marie Or stewpan, a similar quantity of cocks' kernels, small truffles, 
button mushrooms, quenelles, and green gherkins, cut into the shape 
of olives ; to these add a sufficient quantity of Turtle sauce (No. 9) 
for the purpose, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a minute or 
two, and serve. 

190. CHIPOLATA RAGOUT. 

Twist one pound of pork sausages into small round balls, sepa- 
rate these, fry them, and when they are cold, trim and put them into 
a bain-marie containing a proportionate quantity of cocks' combs and 
kernels, button mushrooms, truffles, quenelles, carrots, and turnips, 
turned in the shape of olives, and boiled down in their own glaze, 
also some round balls of braized streaky bacon, and an equal pro- 
portion of chestnuts, pealed and boiled in consomme ; add a ladleful 
of Financiere sauce (No. 8), a little essence of truffles and mushrooms ; 
then set the ragout on the fire to boil for two minutes, and serve. 

Note. — The above is the simplest mode fur preparing this ragout; 
it is far better, however, that the whole of the ingredients of which 
this very rich and popular ragout is composed should be kept sepa- 



76 RAGOUTS. 

rately in small stewpans, and be placed alternately in groups about 
the dish they are meant to garnish and ornament ; then the boiling 
sauce should be poured over the turkey, capon, or poulards, when 
ready to serve. 

191. STRASBOURG RAGOUT OF FAT LIVERS. 

Braize a fat liver in some mirepoix (No. 236), take it out to cool, 
cut it into scollops, and trim them neatly ; put them into a small 
stewpan with some of the mirepoix freed from every particle of fat, 
add a proportionate quantity of scolloped truffles, and just before 
using these, set them on the stove and boil them down to a glaze ; 
add a sufficient quantity of Financiere sauce, and serve. 

192. PERIGUEUX RAGOUT. 

Prepare some scollops of fat livers and truffles, as for the fore- 
going ragout; to these add some small quenelles, cocks' combs and 
kernels, and some button mushrooms ; then add a ladlcful of 
Perigueux sauce (No. 23), and boil the whole together for two or 
three minutes. 

193. MATELOTTE RAGOUT. 

Peel and blanch half a pint of button onions, fry them of a light- 
brown color over a slow fire ; when done, drain them on to a sieve, 
in order to free them from the butter, and place them in a bain-nairic 
with an equal quantity of white button mushrooms, crayfish tails, and 
small quenelles of whiting ; to these add a ladleful of Matelotte sauce 
(No. 31), and after allowing the ragout to boil for two or three minutes, 
use it for garnishing the MateloUe, or any other dressed colored fish 
it is intended for. 

194. MATELOTTE NORMANDE RAGOUT. 
Prepare thirty crayfish tails, and place them in a stewpan with 
about half a pint of muscles, three dozen of parboiled oysters, and 
an equal proportion of white button mushrooms ; to these add a 
ladleful of Matelotte Normande sauce (No. 32), allow the whole to boil 
up a minute or two on the stove, and use the ragout to garnish soles 
or other fish for which it is prepared. 

195. BOURGUIGNOTTE RAGOUT. 

Peel and blanch half a pint of small button onions, put them 
into a stewpan with a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a 
pat of butter, moisten with half a pint of good broth, and set the 
onions to stew gently on a moderate fire ; when nearly done, boil 
them down to a glaze, and add them to an equal quantity of white 
button mushrooms and very small quenelles ; to these put sufficient 
Bourguignotte sauce (No. 28) for the purpose required ; allow the ra- 
gout to boil up on the stove-fire for a minute or two, and use it to 
garnish the entree it may be intended for. 

196. CRAYFISH RAGOUT. 

Take out and trim the tails of thirty crayfish ; with the bodies 
and shells make some crayfish butter (No. 184), to be used in color- 
ing some quenelles of whitings, afterward moulded with teaspoons, 
poached, and placed with the crayfish; to these add some Allemande 



RAGOUTS. 77 

or Supreme sauce, with which mix in a little of the butter made with 
the shells of the crayfish, and serve the ragout with the dish it is 
meant for. 

197. EOUEXAISE RAGOUT. 

Prepare an equal proportion of the following shell-fish — oysters, 
muscles, and shrimps ; to these add some button mushrooms and 
quenelles of lobster, and moisten the ragout with a sauce made in the 
following manner : reduce some of the liquor of the muscles, oysters, 
and mushrooms, with two glasses of French white wine, and the 
addition of a small ladleful of Veloute sauce ; finish by mixing in four 
yelks of eggs, a pat of butter, and a little cream : stir the sauce 
on the stove-fire till it boils, and then pass it through a tammy on to 
the ragout. Before sending it to table, add a spoonful of chopped and 
blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. 

About a dozen smelts, trussed in the same manner as whiting for 
frying, and boiled in a little salt and water, and afterward skinned 
and glazed, should be prepared to garnish round the fish with which 
the Rouenaise ragout is served. 

198. EAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS. 

First blanch, and then braize, a little white broth, three or more 
throat sweetbreads, for about twenty minutes ; then take them up on 
a plate, and allow them to cool ; cut them into neat scollops and 
place them in a small stewpan with a small ladleful of any sort of 
sauce appropriate to the entree which this ragout is intended to 
garnish. 

A similar kind of ragout may be prepared with lambs' sweetbreads, 
calf's, sheep's, or lamb's brains. 

199. EAGOUT OF SOFT EOES OF MACKEEEL, OE OTIIEE FISH. 

Parboil the soft roes of six mackerel or carp, in a little boiling 
water mixed with two spoonsful of French vinegar and a little salt ; 
drain them on a napkin, and put them into a sauta-pan containing 
some Allemande or Supreme sauce ; add some chopped and blanched 
parsley, and a little nutmeg and lemon-juice ; toss the whole gently 
together over the fire, taking care not to break or bruise the roes, 
and place them in the centre of the fillets of fish prepared to receive 
them. 

200. CAEDIXAL EAGOUT. 

Prepare two dozen small quenelles of lobster, which place in a 
stewpan, with thirty picked and trimmed prawns' tails, two dozen 
button mushrooms, and a similar quantity of small round truffles ; 
to these add a sufficient quantity of cardinal sauce for the remove or 
entree ; then boil the ragout for three minutes on the fire, when it will 
be ready for use. 

201. EAGOUT OF SCOLLOFS OF SOLES, ETC. 

Fillet two pairs of soles, or a proportionate quantity of any other 
sort of fish, place them in a sauta-pan with some clarified butter, 
pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; cover them with a round of buttered 
paper, and set them in the oven for about ten minutes; when they 
are done, drain them on a napkin, and afterward place them on a 



78 RAGOUTS. 

dish to put them in the larder to cool ; next cut them into neatly- 
trimmed scollops, and put these into a stewpan ; add either some 
Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or Dutch sauce, whichever is most 
suitable for the kind of fish these scollops are intended to garnish. 

202. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF SALMON OR TROUT. 

These scollops should be prepared in every respect in the same 
manner as the foregoing, except that, previously to adding the sauce 
a little lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice should be mixed in. 

203. PARISIAN RAGOUT. 

An equal quantity of trimmed crayfish tails, button mushrooms, 
small round truffles, and cocks' kernels should be put into a stewpan 
containing some Parisian sauce (No. 40) ; make the ragout hot pre- 
viously to using it. 

204. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF POULTRY OR GAME. 

Fillet one or more heads of poultry or game, according to the 
quantity of ragout required ; trim, and place them in a sauta-pan with 
a little clarified fresh butter, season with a little salt, cover them 
with a buttered paper, and set them over a moderate fire to simmer ; 
as soon as they become firm and white on the under side, turn them 
over that they may be effectually done through, taking care that they 
do not become brown ; then drain them on a napkin, and cut them on 
the slant into scollops, trim them neatly, and put them into a stewpan 
with some Allemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, previously reduced 
with either an essence of fowl or game, as the case may be, according 
to the nature of the scollops, whether of poultry or game. 

205. RAGOUT OF SCOLLOPS OF LARKS. 

Cut out, trim, and slightly simmer, in a little butter, the fillets of 
two dozen larks ; drain them on a napkin, and place them in a small 
stewpan, with a sauce made as follows : Fry the carcasses of the larks 
in a stewpan, with a pat of butter, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a 
sprig of thyme, a little salt and grated nutmeg ; when they are of a 
lifjht-brown color, moisten with three glasses of French white wine ; 
allow the carcasses to stew gently on a moderate fire for half an hour ; 
pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a tammy into a puree; 
take this up into a small stewpan, add a little reduced brown sauce, 
and pour it on to the scollops ; warm them with care, for if they 
be allowed to boil, it will spoil the look of the puree, and reuder it 
rough. 

206. RAGOUT OF COCKS' KERNELS A LA SOUBISE. 

Put about half a pound of cock's kernels, with cold water, into a 
stewpan, let it stand by the side of a slow fire to remove the little 
blood they contain, taking care that the water does not become too 
warm ; as soon as they whiten, drain them on a sieve, and put them 
into a small stewpan, with a pat of butter, the juice of a lemon, ami 
a little salt, toss them over the fire for two or three minutes, moisten 
with a little white chicken broth, and set them to simmer gently on 
a slow fire for about ten minutes longer; they will be then done. 
Drain them on a napkin, put them into a small stewpan, with a 



RAGOUTS. 79 

ragout-spoonful of Soubise sauce and a little Allemande sauce, toss 
them gently over the fire till they are hot, and place them in the centre 
of an entree of fillets of fowl d la Marechale, a la TfUxelles. 

207. RICHELIEU RAGOUT. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat of chicken, and before moulding 
the quenelles, incorporate with it two spoonsful of brown puree of 
onions (of which there must be prepared a sufficient quantity for the 
sauce of the ragout) ; mould two dozen small quenelles, poach them, 
and, after draining them on a napkin, put them into a small stewpan, 
with a dozen white cocks' combs and a few scollops of fat livers ; to 
these add the remainder of the brown puree of onions, which must be 
no thicker than sauce. 

This ragout may be used for garnishing boudins a la Richelieu, or 
any entrees of poultry or game that are bread-crumbed and broiled. 

208. RAGOUT OF CHICKENS' WINGS. 

This ragout is only to be recommended when it happens tliat a 
number of fowls or chickens have to be cut up for other purposes ; 
in such case, save the wings, which cut off close to the breast, bone 
them neatly, without tearing or cutting the skin, and fill up the 
cavity occasioned by taking the bone out with some quenelle force- 
meat of fowl ; shape them neatly and parboil them, immerse them 
in cold water, then drain and trim them. Line a stewpan with thin 
layers of fat bacon, place the wings therein with a fagot of parsley, 
rhyme, a bay-leaf, and an onion ; moisten with white broth, cover 
them with a round of buttered paper, and set them to boil gently by 
the side of the stove for about twenty minutes, when, if the fowls are 
young, the wings will be done. Then drain the wings on a napkin, 
and, when trimmed, put them into a small stewpan with some 
Allemande sauce. 

This ragout is more generally made use of for filling vol-au-vents, 
casseroles of rice, and chartreuses ; it is also useful, as an accessory, 
for garnishing large removes. 

209. RAGOUT OF OX-PALATES. 

Steep six ox-palates in water for several hours, keeping the vessel 
that contains them near the stove-fire, so that the water may become 
gradually tepid, which materially helps to cleanse them ; then scald 
and scrape them clean, trim, wash, and set them to braize in some 
blanc or poele (No. 230); about four hours will suffice. When the 
palates are done, drain and put them in press between two dishes ; 
when cold, shape them out with a round cutter an inch in diameter, 
and place them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of either of the 
following sauces: Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, Italienne, Finan- 
cier e, Poivrade, or Tomata. This ragout is strictly appropriate only 
for garnishing pates-chauds and vol-au-vents, but it may, in cases of 
emergency, be served as an entree garnished round with croquettes, of 
potatoes or jleurons of pastry. 

210. RAGOUT OF SHEEP'S TONGUES A L'ECARLATE. 

Boil and press eight sheeps' tongues that have been cured with 
saltpetre ; trim and cut them into round scollops, and then put these 



80 BROTHS. 

scollops into a small stewpan, with any kind of sauce that may be 
suitable for the entree they are meant to garnish. 

211. regent's ragout. 

Fillet an eel, cut it into scollops, and simmer these iji a stewpan 
with a little butter, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt ; 
when done, drain the scollops on a napkin, and then put them into a 
stewpan containing an equal proportion of white button mushrooms, 
cocks' combs, small round truffles, and small quenelles of whiting 
colored with lobster coral ; to these add a small ladleful of Regency 
sauce (No. 49), then allow the ragout to boil up on the stove-fire, and 
use it for garnishing the dressed fish it is intended for. 



BROTHS AND CONSOMMES IN GENERAL, FOR SOUPS, 

&c, 

COMPRISING 

Nutritive Soup. White ConsommS of fowls. 

Empotage or Consommi for soups in gen- „ „ pheasants or part- 

eral. ridges. 

Brown ConsommS of fowls. Brown extract of larks, Ac. 

„ „ pheasants or part- „ „ hare or rabbit, 

ridges. Common gravy. 

„ „ rabbits. Blond of veal, or veal gravy. 

212. NUTRITIVE SOUP. 

Into a three-gallon stockpot, put a knuckle of veal, six pounds of 
the shoulder part of beef (commonly called the gravy piece), and a 
bone of roast beef or mutton. Fill the stockpot with cold water to 
within two inches of the brim, and set it upon a stove-fire to boil, 
taking care not to hurry its ebullition, but allow it to take place gently, 
so that it may have time to throw up its skum ; this should be re- 
moved, as it rises to the surface, and a little cold water should be 
thrown in occasionally to effect that purpose. 

When the stock has thrown off all its skum, which will easily be per- 
ceived by the water becoming clear again, lift it off the stove, and put 
it by the side. Then proceed to garnish it with four leeks and two 
heads of celery, trimmed and tied together, two good-sized carrots, two 
turnips, and two onions, into each of which two cloves have been in- 
serted ; add one good tablespoonful of salt, and let the whole boil 
gently for about three-quarters of an hour. During this time, an old 
hen and a partridge should be partially roasted, and then put into the 
stock; this should continue to boil during five hours unremittingly: 
care being taken that the stockpot be kept full. 

Previously to the soup being served, take off every particle of fat 
that appears on the surface, with a ladle ; take out the vegetables — 
carefully placing them on a napkiu, then remove the fowl and the 
partridge from the stock : these operations should be so managed as 
not to disturb the brightness of the broth. Cut the fillets of the 
fowl and the partridge into slices, and place them in the soup-tureen, 



AND CONSOMMES. 81 

and upon these put some of the vegetables (which have been drained 
on the napkin) neatly cut with a vegetable cutter a quarter of an inch 
in diameter ; then pour in the broth, to which add a little brown con- 
soiione of veal to give it color. Let it be sufficiently seasoned with 
salt and a few grains of minionette pepper, then serve. 

213. EMPOTAGE, OR CONSOMME FOR SOUPS IN GENERAL. 

When preparing for company, take about thirty pounds of gravy 
beef, and a similar quantity of knuckles of veal, together with four 
wild rabbits, and put the whole into a large stockpot which has been 
previously spread with butter, add common broth in sufficient quan- 
tity so as nearly to cover the meat. Put the stockpot on the stove- 
fire to boil until the broth is reduced to a light-colored glaze ; then 
fill it up with the remainder of the grand stock, and after it has 
boiled and been skimmed, garnish it with carrots, turnips, leeks, 
onions, and celery ; add also two blades of mace and six cloves. In 
all cases be sparing of salt, especially in the first stages of prepara- 
tion. Allow the broth to boil gently on the side of the stove for six 
hours, and then pass it into kitchen pans for further use. 

In connection with this subject, I may here point out that, if it be 
contemplated to have as one of the removes a piece of beef braized, 
a saving provision may be effected by using, in the first instance, 
instead of about thirty pounds of stock beef, only ten pounds of that 
quality in preparing the grand stock ; the deficiency being made up 
by twenty pounds of sirloin. This latter must be boned, and the 
fillet taken out, either to be used to ornament the remove, or for an 
entree, as occasion may require ; the meat must then be rolled up 
tightly and strung round in the manner of Hambro' beef. This will 
thus answer the double purpose of giving strength to the consomme, 
and of serving afterward as a remove. 

When the beef thus prepared has boiled gently in the stockpot for 
about five hours, take it out and put it in press between two dishes 
till wanted ; it must be then trimmed, and placed in a long braizing- 
pan with a little good stock to warm it in ; glaze it nicely, and having 
dished it up, garnish the remove with such vegetables as have been 
prepared for the purpose. 

214. CONSOMME OF FOWLS FOR SOUPS. 

Take two or more fowls, according to the quality of broth re- 
quired ; roast them before a brisk fire until half done ; and then put 
them into a small, well-tinned stockpot, nearly filled up with water, 
and place this on the fire to boil ; skim the consomme, and then add 
one good-sized carrot, two turnips, one onion, one head of celery, two 
cloves, a small piece of mace, and a little salt. Set the stock on the 
side of the stove to boil gently for about two hours, and then strain 
it off for use. 

This kind of consomme is admirably adapted for persons of delicate 
health as a restorative. It is also very serviceable in imparting deli- 
cacy of flavor to all clear soups. 

215. BROWN CONSOMME OF PHEASANTS OR PARTRIDGES. 

Roast off two pheasants, after having taken out the fillets for the 
purpose of making them into an entree, or four partridges may be 
5 



82 BROTHS 

u«ed, (removing the fillets in the same way) ; put them into a stockpot 
with a small knuckle of veal, and about one pound of lean of ham ; fill 
up with water, then set it on to boil on the stove-fire. Meanwhile slice 
up a carrot, an onion, two turnips, a head of celery, and a leek : fry 
these roots in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, till they become 
slightly browned, then throw them into the consomme, after having 
previously well skimmed it. Add three cloves, a piece of mace, and 
a little salt ; let it boil gently about three hours, and then strain it 
off for use. 

This preparation will serve for all kinds of clear consomme soups, 
such as au Chasseur, or a la Desclignac, &c. 

216. BROWN CONSOMME OF RABBITS. 

Take three or four wild rabbits, cut them up in pieces, and put 
them into a small stockpot with five pounds of knuckle of veal which 
has been roasted enough to color it; fill up with light broth or 
water, then set it on the stove to boil, skim it well, and garnish with 
carrot, onion, and celery, two cloves, a piece of mace, and a little 
salt. Let this boil gently for three hours, and then strain it off for 
use. 

This consomme is very essential in clarifying Espagnole or brown 
sauce, and is also serviceable for all soups in which quenelles of game 
are served. 

217. WHITE CONSOMME OF FOWLS. 

Take two or more old hens or fowls, or, in their stead, the carcasses 
of fowls, or any other sort of poultry you may have. Let them steep 
in cold water to cleanse them from any blood they may contain ; 
then drain and put them into an appropriate-sized stockpot or stew- 
pan, and fill it up with common broth or water ; garnish with celery, 
onions, tnrnips, carrots, and leeks. Set it to boil gently by the fire 
for two hours, if made with carcasses, but if old hens are used, it 
will require at least an hour longer. When done, skim off the fat 
and pass the consomme through a napkin into a basin for use. 

This consomme may be considered as the proper basis of all white 
soups, and is most useful in clarifying and flavoring all white 
sauces. 

218. WHITE CONSOMME OF PHEASANTS OR PARTRIDGES. 

The same process is to be followed in making this consomme, as 
the foregoing, substituting, of course, game for poultry. 

This consomme, after being partially reduced to glaze, is used for 
the purpose of imparting the flavor of game to any white sauce, 
such as Supreme, Allemande, Bechamel* Veloute, or white Italian 
sauce. It is also useful for mixing white purees of game. 

219. BROWN EXTRACT OF LARKS OR QUAILS. 

After having filleted the larks or quails, and removed the gizzards 
from the trail of the larks, put a stewpan on the fire with an ounce of 
fresh butter in it ; when the butter begins to fritter, put the bones or 
carcasses of larks or quails into the stewpan and fry them brown. 
Then add half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two shalots, and two 

* So called after the celebrated cook Bfichamel, who lived in the reign of Louis XIV. 



AND CONSOMMES. 83 

glasses of sherry or Madeira. Let these simmer gently for five 
minutes, after which add one quart of common broth. Allow the 
extract to boil slowly by the side of the fire for three quarters of an 
hour, pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin, and reserve it for 
working the sauces intended for gratins of quails or larks, and also 
for fumet sauces for pdtes-chauds of either of the forementioned small 
birds. 

Extract of woodcocks or snipes is obtained in a similar manner. 

220. EXTRACT OF HARE OR RABBIT. 

This is made by putting the bones or carcasses of either into a stew- 
pan with two or three glasses of any sort of white wine, a bay-leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, and two shalots ; and then submitting it to the action 
of a rather slow fire, until the liquid becomes reduced to a glaze, when 
a quart to three pints of common broth should be added. Put it on a 
brisk fire to boil, skim it well, and then put it by the side of the stove 
to simmer gently for an hour and a half; after which time pass it 
through a napkin into a basin, and keep it for use as occasion may 
require. 

221. COMMON GRAVY. 

Spread the bottom of a middle-sized stewpan with butter, and 
cover it with thin slices of beef suet ; place some slices of onions 
over this, and then add six pounds of gravy-beef cut into thick slices, 
and any trimmings of meat there may be to spare ; moisten with 
a quart of common broth, and set the stewpan over a brisk stove-fire 
to boil. When the broth is reduced to glaze, slacken the heat of 
the stove, by partially smothering it with ashes, and allow the gravy 
to acquire a deep red brown color ; then, fill the stewpan up with 
common broth or water, garnish with two carrots, two heads of 
celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns, and, if 
the gravy has been filled up with water, add a spoonful of salt. 
Put the gravy to boil on the stove-fire, skim it thoroughly, then 
remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for about three 
hours ; next, strain it through a broth-cloth into another stewpan, 
and proceed immediately to clarify it, in the following manner : 
whisk up three whites of eggs with a little spring water, and, 
after having removed all the grease from the surface of the gravy, 
incorporate the whites of eggs in with it ; whisk it over the stove-fire 
until it is nearly boiling, and then set it to simmer by the side for 
a quarter of an hour, and strain it through a broth-cloth into a 
basin for use. 

222. BLOND DE VEAU, OR VEAL GRAVY. 

Having first well buttered a large stewpan, lay therein one pound 
of the lean of a York ham cut in slices, a knuckle of veal, and the 
under part of a leg of veal ; to these add an old hen and a couple of 
wild rabbits. Pour three pints of common broth over the meat, &c, 
and after putting the cover on the stewpan, place it on the stove-fire 
to boil down to a glaze ; then slacken the heat so that it may gradually 
become browned. When the glaze darkens to a deep red tinge, fill 
it up with common broth or water, and set it on the stove ; as soon as 
it boils, skim it thoroughly, garnish with carrots, turnips:, onions, celery, 



84 MEDICINAL BROTHS, ETC. 

three cloves, and a blade of mace ; and after it has boiled gently by the 
side of the stove-fire for three hours, strain it through a napkin into 
basins for use. 

This consomme is used for clearing and working the grand Espagnole 
sauce, for coloring clear soups, and also for finishing some of the 
special sauces. 



MEDICINAL BROTHS AND CONSOMMES FOR INVALIDS, 

COMPRISING 

Plain chicken broth. Crayfish broth. 

Pectoral do. do. Decoction of snails. 

Mutton do. Mucilaginous chicken broth. 
Beef tea. 

223. PLAIN" CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut a young fowl or chicken into four parts, wash these well in cold 
water, and put the pieces into a stewpan with one quart of spring water, 
and a very little salt ; set it to boil on the stove-fire, skim it well, and 
then add the heart of a white cabbage lettuce, and a handful of chervil j 
boil the broth for about an hour, and then strain it through a napkin 
into a basin. 

224. PECTORAL CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut up a young fowl into several pieces, put them into a stewpan 
with three pints of spring water ; set it on the stove-fire to boil ; 
skim it well, and add a little salt. Take two tablespoonsful of pearl 
barley, wash it in several waters, and add it to the broth — together 
with one ounce of marsh-mallow roots cut into shreds, for the purpose 
of better extracting its healing properties. The broth should then 
boil one hour, and be passed through a napkin into a basin, to be kept 
ready for use. 

225. MUTTON BROTH. 

Take three pounds of the scrag-end of a neck of very fresh 
mutton, cut it into several pieces, wash them in cold water, and put 
them into a stewpan with two quarts of cold spring-water ; place the 
stewpan on the fire to boil, skim it well, and then add a couple 
of turnips cut into slices, a few branches of parsley, a sprig of green 
thyme, and a little salt. When it has boiled gently by the side of the 
stove for an hour and a half, skim off the fat from the surface, and 
then let it be strained through a lawn sieve into a basin, and kept for 
use. 

226. BEEF TEA. 

Take two pounds of the lean part of the gravy piece of beef, and 
carefully pare away every portion of fat, skin, or sinew; cut this into 
small square pieces the size of a nut ; put the beef iuto a stewpan 
capable of containing two quarts, and pour three pints of boiling 
water upou it ; add a little salt, put it on the stove-fire, and as soon 



MEDICINAL BROTHS, ETC. 85 

as it boils skim it, and then remove it to the side of the stove, to con- 
tinue boiling gently for an hour, after which the beef tea should be 
strained through a napkin for use. 

227. CRAYFISH BROTH, FOR PURIFYING THE BLOOD. 

Take two pounds of the lean part of very white veal, cut it into 
small pieces, and pound it well in a mortar ; to this add three dozen 
crayfish and a handful of green chervil, and pound these together so 
as to thoroughly bruise the crayfish. Then remove the whole into 
a stewpan, and pour upon it three pints of cold spring water ; add a 
little salt, and place the stewpan on the stove to boil ; after which 
set it by the side of the stove-fire, and keep it gently simmering for 
three quarters of an hour; it may then be strained through a napkin 
for use. 

This kind of broth, in order to promote the desired effect, should be 
taken by the convalescent upon an empty stomach. 

228. DECOCTION OF SNAILS FOR INVETERATE COUGHS. 

Take two dozen garden snails, add to these the hind quarters only 
of two dozen stream frogs, previously skinned ; bruise them together 
in a mortar, after which put them into a stewpan with a couple of 
turnips chapped small, a little salt, a quarter of an ounce of hay saffron, 
and three pints of spring water. Stir these on the fire until the broth 
begins to boil, then skim it well, and set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer for half an hour : after which it should be strained by pressure 
through a tammy-cloth into a basin for use. 

This broth, from its soothing qualities, often counteracts, success- 
fully, the straining effects of a severe cough, and alleviates, more than 
any other culinary preparation, the sufferings of the consumptive. 

229. MUCILAGINOUS BROTH FOR PERSONS IN DELICATE HEALTH. 

Take a young fowl, cut it into several parts, and wash them thor- 
oughly ; put these into a stewpan capable of containing three quarts 
of water, add thereto three pounds of the lean of very white veal, a 
couple of turnips, one carrot, and one head of celery — the whole to be 
cut into small pieces ; fill up the stewpan with spring water, and put 
it on the stove to boil, taking care to remove the scum as it rises to 
the surface. After the broth has thrown off the albumen of the meat 
in the shape of scum, add to it two ounces of Previte's preparation of 
Ceylon moss, taking special care to well mix the preparation with the 
broth. Keep the pan gently boiling by the side of the stove-fire for 
one hour and a quarter ; then pass the broth through a napkin into an 
earthen vessel, and put it by for use. 

This broth is nutritious and cooling, and its use in cases of sore 
throats will often prove beneficial. 



86 BRAIZES, POELES, 



BRAIZES, POELES, MIREPOIX, ETC., 

COMPRISING 

Braize for general purposes. Blanc or White Braize for dressing calves, 

White poele for poultry. heads. 

Frying batter for fillets of fish, Ac. Mirepoix, or Braize for truffles. 

Bo. for fruit fritters. White roux for thickening sauces. 

Boiled Murimide, or pickle. Brown roux for do. 

Cold Marinade. 

230. BRAIZE FOR GENERAL PURPOSES. 

Take two pounds of fillet of veal, one pound of fat Yorkshire ham, 
two heads of celery, and the same number of onions and carrots ; cut 
all these into small square pieces, add a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, one 
clove of garlic, two blades of mace, and a dozen cloves ; throw these 
ingredients into a middle-sized stewpan in which has been melted 
down a pound of fresh butter ; put the stewpan on the stove-fire, stir- 
ring its contents frequently with a woodeu spoon, while the vegetables, 
&c, are frying. When this mixture becomes slightly browned, pour 
into the pan half a pint of Cognac brandy, allow it to simmer for five 
minutes, and then add three quarts of common broth. Keep the 
braize gently boiling for an hour and a half, then strain it off through 
a tammy cloth (using considerable pressure) into a kitchen-pan, and 
put it away in the larder, to be used for purposes that will be hereafter 
explained. 

231. WHITE POELE FOR POULTRY. , 

Cut into dice-shaped pieces two pounds of beef suet, an equal 
quantity of veal, and the same kind of vegetables, &c, as described 
in the above-mentioned braize ; to these add the pulp of two lemons, 
removing the pips ; put these ingredients into a middle-sized stewpan 
with half a pound of butter, and stir them on a slow fire until the suet 
is quite melted ; then add three quarts of common broth, and keep the 
poele gently boiling for an hour ; it should then be passed through a 
sieve into an earthen pan, and reserved for the purpose of braizing 
poultry in. 

Note. — The two foregoing preparations, although very desirable in 
imparting a rich succulent flavor to poultry, game, &c, are neverthe- 
less to be regarded rather as luxurious than essential. Good white 
or brown stock, as the case may require, can be used as economical 
substitutes. 

232. FRYING BATTER FOR FILLETS OF FISH, POULTRY, GAME, 
ETC., A LA HORLY, OR A LA ROYALE. 

Put into a two-quart basin three-quarters of a pound of sifted 
flour, a little salt, two yelks of eggs, and two ounces of fresh butter 
previously melted in a small stewpan ; to these add gradually about 
half a pint of tepid water, and stir the whole together with a wooden 
spoon until the butter has acquired the consistency and appearance 
of rich-looking double cream ; it may then be put aside in the larder 
until within half an hour of its being wanted, when the whites of 






MIREPOIX, MARINADES, ETC. 87 

two eggs, well whisked into a snowlike froth, should be incorporated 
with it. 

233. FRYING BATTER FOR ALL SORTS OF FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Put into a basin three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour, three 
ounces of fresh butter (melted), one wine-glassful of Curacoa, and a 
very little salt; mix these gently together with a wooden spoon, gradu- 
ally pouring into the basin about half a pint of bitter ale. When the 
batter becomes mixed to the thickness of double cream, set it aside 
while you whisk the whites of three eggs into a substantial froth, and 
instantly incorporate this with it. 

Many prefer such fritters as pineapple, peach, apricot or plum, fried 
with a plainer kind of batter, in making which, water is substituted 
for ale. 

234. BOILED MARINADE. 

Cut into slices, and put into a stewpan, four carrots, the same num- 
ber of onions, and two heads of celery, to which add parsley, four 
bay-leaves, thyme and sweet basil, a dozen cloves, a few blades of mace, 
two cloves of garlic, and one pound of raw ham (cut into small square 
pieces), a tablespoonful of peppercorns, and half a pound of butter. 
Stir these ingredients together over the fire until they become lightly 
browned ; then pour over them a quart of French white wine vinegar, 
and let the marinade boil quickly for five minutes, then add two quarts 
of common stock ; allow the whole to boil gently for one hour ; strain 
it off through a tammy-cloth (using considerable pressure), into a 
kitchen pan, and reserve it for use. 

This marinade is used for the purpose of preserving larded beef, 
mutton, venison, or roebuck, as well as to braize either of these in, 
when it is wished to dress them d la Chevreuil or roebuck fashion. 

235. COLD MARINADE OR PICKLE. 

Take a large earthen vessel capable of containing whatever joint is 
intended to be marinaded or pickled ; then cut into very thin slices or 
shreds, four carrots and as many onions ; add to these, cloves, mace, 
peppercorns, thyme, bay-leaves and basil, and a handful of salt ; after 
having mixed all these together, pour in, according to the quantity of 
marinade that may be required, cold spring water and vinegar in the 
proportion of two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter ; keep 
the pan (containing the marinade) covered with its lid in a cool 
place, for the purpose of pickling therein, joints of red deer, roebuck, 
mountain hares, fillets of mutton or beef, &c. 

In Scotland, this sort of marinade will prove very serviceable, espe- 
cially if cooking for a shooting-party, and when the larders are well 
supplied with moor and Highland game. 

236. BLANC OR WHITE BRAIZE FOR CALVES' HEADS OR EARS, 
AND ALSO LAMBS' FEET OR EARS. 

Chop one pound (more or less, as occasion may require) of beef 
suet, and the same quantity of fat bacon ; put these into a stewpan 
together with a garnished* fagot of parsley, a couple of carrots and 

* A garnished fagot of parsley, consists of a handful of parsley, half a dozen green 
onions, and a bay-leaf and sprig of thyme tied together neatly with twine. 



88 BRAIZES, ETC. 

onions, inserting four cloves into one of the latter; add the pulp of 
two lemons, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, and a little salt, place 
the stewpan on the stove-fire for about ten minutes, carefully stirring 
the ingredients the whole time, in order to prevent them from acquir- 
ing a brown color ; then pour in a sufficient proportion of water to 
produce the quantity of blanc required. Allow the blanc to boil one 
hour, then strain it through a hair-sieve, and use it for the purpose 
intended. 

237. MIREPOIX FOR BRAIZING LARDED FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, 

ETC. 

Take two pounds of veal, one pound of fat bacon, and one pound 
of lean ham, four carrots, four onions, a pottle of mushrooms, six 
shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, some sprigs of thyme, six 
cloves, two blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns ; cut 
these ingredients up into small square pieces, and put them into a 
stewpan with half a pound of butter, and fry them brown; then add a 
bottle of Madeira or sherry, and a quart of good broth ; boil the 
mirepoix by the side of a stove-fire for about an hour and a half, and 
then strain it through a tammy (with considerable pressure, to extract 
all the goodness) into a basin, to be kept for such purposes as will be 
hereafter directed. 

238. WHITE ROUX OR THICKENING FOR SAUCES. 

Take some fresh butter — say one pound, put it into a stewpan on a 
moderate fire to clarify ; skim it, and then pour it off into a thick- 
bottomed stewpan, care being taken that none of the milk be allowed 
to mix with the butter. Fill the butter up with sifted flour in suffi- 
cient quantity to form a paste requiring some strength to work it with 
a wooden spoon ; the roux should then be placed on a moderate fire, 
and continually stirred with the spoon until it becomes somewhat 
softer ; then take the spoon out, wipe the sides of the stewpan, put the 
lid on it, and place it in a moderately-heated oven, and there let it 
remain for about three-quarters of an hour — taking care to stir it every 
ten minutes, and to watch it closely, in order to prevent the possibility 
of its getting burnt or colored, an accident which would render it use- 
less for white sauce. At the expiration of the time above-named, or 
before, if the roux be sufficiently done, (which may easily be ascer- 
tained by its becoming thinner), it should be taken out of the oven, 
and put aside until wanted for use. 

This roux is used for thickening Velouie or white sauce. 

239. BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING FOR BROWN SAUCE. 

This is made exactly in the same way as the white roux with the 
exception that it should remain longer in the oven, to allow it to ac- 
quire a fawn or buff color, before it is taken out. When the rov.r is 
considered to be done, three or four shalots should be thrown in, in 
order to diminish the action of the heat of the copper stewpan on its 
contents, and for the purpose of imparting flavor to it. 

This roux is used to thicken Espagnole or brown sauce. 



QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. 89 



QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL, AND FORCE- 
MEATS FOR GRATINS, 

COMPRISING 

Bread Panada for quenelles. Quenelle of Hare. 

Pate d choux Panada. Do. of Rabbit 

Preparation of Calf's Udder. Do. of small Birds. 

Quenelle of Chicken or Fowl. Do. of Fish or Lobsters. 
Do. of Pheasant or Partridge. 

240. BREAD PANADA FOR QUENELLES. 

Take the crumb of two new French rolls, and steep it in tepid 
water for ten minutes, then put it into a napkin and wring it tightly, 
in order to remove the water from the bread. Put the crumb into 
a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, and two 
spoonsful of white broth. Put these on the stove-fire, continuing to 
stir the panada the whole time with a wooden spoon, until it assumes 
the appearance of paste, and no longer adheres to the bottom of the 
stewpan, then add three yelks of eggs, and turn it out on a plate, 
smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, and having 
covered it with a round piece of buttered paper, place it in the larder 
until required for use. 

241. PATE A CHOUX PANADA* 

To half a pint of white chicken broth add four ounces of fresh 
butter and a little salt ; put the stewpan containing these on the 
fire ; as soon as it begins to simmer, mix in with the fore-mentioned 
ingredients five ounces of sifted flour, and by continuing to stir this 
batter on the fire for five minutes, it will become a delicately firm 
paste, which must be worked over the fire until it freely leaves the 
sides of the pan. Then take three yelks of eggs and quickly mix 
them in the batter ; put it on a plate, cover it with a buttered paper, 
and keep it in the cool till wanted for use. 

This kind of panada is preferred by some cooks to bread panada ; 
being considered by them more delicate and less liable to produce 
fermentation in warm weather ; however, bread panada has the 
advantage of not collapsing, as is the case with the pate a choux 
panada, if prepared some time before the quenelle in which it is used 
be eaten. 

242. PREPARATION OF CALF'S UDDER. 

The udder is an elongated piece of fat-looking substance attached 
to the inner part of a leg of veal. It is easily separated from the 
meat by a knife, and should then be bound round with twine in the 
shape of a sausage, so as to prevent it from falling to pieces on 
taking it out of the stockpot; the udder so tied up is then put into 
the stockpot to boil. Having allowed the dressed udder time to 
cool and get firm, either on the ice or otherwise, pare off" the 
outside with a knife, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a 

• Anglicfi, " pretty shoes." 



90 QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. 

mortar ; then nib it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and 
put it on a plate upon the ice to cool, in order that it may be quite 
firm when required for use. 

Note. — The two foregoing preparations being the basis of a great 
variety of force-meats, it is essential that they should be well under- 
stood before attempting the following more complicated amalga- 
mations. 

It should also be observed that all meat and fish intended for 
quenelles must be forced through a wire-sieve by rubbing it vigorously 
with the back of a wooden spoon, and then be kept on ice till used. 

243. QUENELLE OF FOWL. 

Take of panada and prepared udder, or fresh butter, half a pound 
of each, to these add ten ounces of prepared fillets of chicken, as 
directed above, and pound all three together in a mortar ; when they 
are well mixed, add salt, and as much grated nutmeg as will cover a 
sixpence, a little pepper, and one egg ; ponnd the whole together till 
thoroughly mixed, then add another whole egg and two yelks, and a 
tablespoonful of Bechamel or Supreme sauce. Pound the whole 
thoroughly and quickly, and after having taken the force-meat out of 
the mortar and put it into a kitchen basin ; keep it in a cool place 
until wanted for use. 

Previously to taking the quenelle np out of the mortar, its consis- 
tency should be thus ascertained. Take a piece of the force-meat 
the size of a large nut, roll it with a little flour into the form of a 
round ball, put it into a small stewpan half full of boiling water; 
place it by the side of the fire to simmer for three minutes, after 
which take it out and cnt it in halves ; taste it in order to ascertain 
if it be correctly seasoned, and see, that when cut asunder, the inner 
part presents a smooth, light, compact surface. 

244. QUENELLE OF FILLETS OF GROUSE, PHEASANT, OR PART- 
RIDGE ; QUENELLE OF RABBIT, OR HARE. 

The process for making these is precisely similar to the foregoing, 
substituting, of course, the respective sort of game required, for 
fowl. It requires, however, the addition of a tablespoonful of strong 
essence of game and mushrooms, and a little Allemande sauce ; which 
not only imparts a richer flavor to the quenelle, but also renders it 
smoother. 

245. QUENELLE OF FILLETS OF SMALL BIRDS. 

Take the fillets of such a number of small birds (as quails, snipes, 
larks, plovers, and dottrel) as are likely to weigh about three-quarters 
of a pound. Prepare them just as directed in the process for making 
quenelle of fowl—adding a little glaze made from their carcasses, and 
reduced with a small quantity of Allemande sauce. 

246. QUENELLE OF WHITINGS. 

Fillet four large whitings, after having previously skinned them ; 
pound them in a mortar, and force the produce through a wire- 
sieve with a wooden spoon. To this substance add equal propor- 
tions of bread panada and fresh butter ; pound these effectually, so 
as to mix them well together ; add two whole eggs, and the yelks of 



QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS. 91 

two others gradually ; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. 
Mix well by pounding the quenelle vigorously, and then take it up into 
a basin for use as required. 

Quenelle of every sort of delicate fish is prepared in a similar man- 
ner to the above. 

247. QUENELLES OF LOBSTERS. 

Take the meat of two or more hen lobsters, cut this into thin slices, 
and pound it thoroughly with two ounces of fresh butter; force it 
through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and add two-thirds of its 
quantity of panada, and a similar proportion of fresh butter. Pound 
these well together, adding, by intervals, three whole eggs and a spoon- 
ful of Allemande sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; 
mix well together by pounding, and then take the quenelle up into a 
basin for use. 

248. FORCE-MEAT OF LIVER AND HAM, FOR RAISED PIES. 

Take the whole or part of a light-colored calfs liver, or several fat 
livers of any kind of poultry, if to be obtained. If calPs liver be 
used, cut it into rather small square pieces, and, if time permit, steep 
them in cold spring water, in order to extract the blood, so that the 
force-meat may be whiter. Take the pieces of liver out of the 
water, and place them upon a clean rubber to drain the water from 
them. Meanwhile cut some fat ham or bacon (in equal proportion to 
the liver) into square pieces, put them into a sauta-pan on a brisk fire 
to fry, after which add the pieces of liver, and fry the whole of a light 
brown color ; season with cayenne pepper and salt, and a little 
prepared aromatic spice (No. 1250), some chopped mushrooms, 
parsley, and three shalots. After this, take the pieces of liver and 
ham out of the pan, lay them on a chopping-board, and chop 
them fine ; then put them into a mortar with the remaining con- 
tents of the pan ; pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a 
wire sieve on to an earthen dish. 

This kind of force-meat, or farce, is an excellent ingredient in making 
raised pies. 

249. FORCE-MEAT, OR FARCE, FOR PRESERVING GAME IN. 

To six pounds of boned game, of the kind intended to be preserved, 
add four pounds of fat bacon or ham, and two pounds of fat livers (or, 
failing these, calf's liver) ; cut the whole into small square pieces, and 
proceed as follows : First fry the pieces of bacon in a large sauta-pan, 
and when they become slightly browned, throw in the game and livers ; 
season with pepper and salt, aromatic spices, chopped mushrooms, and 
three or four shalots ; fry the whole till the game is thoroughly done ; 
then chop and pound all these ingredients together ; and afterward 
rub them through a wire sieve ; after which put the farce into a clean 
pan, and keep it covered over with buttered paper. It should be used 
the same day that it is made, for the sooner preserves are out of baud 
the better. 

The use of this farce will be shown in its proper place. 

Note. — When about to preserve game in earthen pans for the spring 
or summer season, great care should be taken in selecting fresh 
game for that purpose, as when preserves are made with stale game, 



92 FORCE-MEATS FOR GRATINS. 

the preparation will most likely not bear keeping so as to be eatable 
when opened for use. 

250. FARCE OF FAT LIVERS FOR GRATINS. 

If the farce be required for turbans or fillets of fowls or rabbits, -or 
pates-chauds of game or small birds, it should be made of fat livers 
or leg of veal, and prepared in exactly the same manner as directed 
for making farce of livers for game pies, excepting that, to finish it 
for use, it is necessary to add one-third the quantity of well-made 
bread panada, and an equal proprotion of raw eggs to bind it, and 
give it body. 

In order to ascertain whether this farce is perfect, roll a small quan- 
tity in a little flour on a plate, then put it on a small baking sheet in 
the oven for five minutes ; when done through, cut it asunder, and if it 
preserves its shape and remains firm to the touch, it may be used with 
safety ; but if it appears to shrink or melt in the oven, then a little 
more panada and another egg must be added, which will render it more 
compact. 

251. GODIVEAUX IN GENERAL. 

To one pound of either veal, fillets of fowls, pheasants, partridges, 
&c, chopped exceedingly fine and smooth to the touch, add one 
pound of beef suet, two whole eggs, the crumb of one French roll 
soaked in water and well wrung in a napkin, grated nutmeg, pepper, 
and salt. Chop these ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then 
pound them in a mortar until the whole presents the appearance of 
a compact body. Then place the substance upon a plate, cover it 
with buttered paper, and set it upon ice to cool for a couple 
of hours. 

After the godiveau has been cooled, put it in the mortar again and 
pound it with considerable force, taking care to mix in with it, by 
degrees, about three-quarters of a pound of clean washed rough ice. 
This last process will cause it to resemble somewhat the quenelle of 
fowl. Put it away in a basin in a cool place till wanted for use. 

Godiveau of any kind, when well made, is very delicious eating, 
and is not so expensive to make as quenelle. It is used for garnishing 
vol-axi-vents, pates-chauds, tourtes a la ciboulette, and also for stuffing 
calfs' heads, as a substitute for quenelle force-meats. 



93 



CLEAR CONSOMME SOUPS IN GENERAL, 



COMPRISING 



Spring Soup. 

Do. d la Vertpri. 

Julihme Soup. 

Jardiniere do. 

Chiffonade do. 

Nivernaise do. 

Javier do. 

Dauphine do. 

Barley do. a la Princesse. 

Quenelles of fowl in consomme'. 

Vermicelli clear Soup. 

Macaroni do. do. 

Indian Paste Soup. 

Lasagnes do. 

Clear rice do. 

Do. with asparagus points. 

Chicken and rice Soup. 

Cocky Leeky Broth. 



Scotch Broth. 

Hodge-podge. 

Knuckle of veal and rice Soup. 

Brunoise do. 

Lettuce and whole pea do. 

Flemish do. 

Sportsman's do. clear. 

Soup d la Disclignac. 

Partridge Soup d la Chasseur. 

Paysanne Soup. 

Tendons of veal d la Jardiniere. 

Do with peas and lettuces 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Soup of gratinated crusts d la D'OrUans. 

Do. a la Princesse. 

Do with lettuces. 

Do d la Rfgence. 

Do d la Paysanne. 



252. SPRING SOUP. 

Take four carrots and as many turnips scraped and washed, scoop 
them into the form of small olives or peas, with a vegetable scoop of 
either shape ; add the white part of two heads of celery, twenty-four 
small onions (without the green stalk), and one head of firm white 
cauliflower cut into small flowerets. Blanch or parboil the foregoing 
in boiling water for three minutes, strain them on a sieve, and theu 
throw them into three quarts of bright consomme of fowl ; let the 
whole boil gently for half an hour by the side of the stove-fire ; then 
add the white leaves of two cabbage-lettuces (previously stamped out 
with a round cutter the size of a shilling), a handful of sorrel-leaves, 
snipped or cut like the lettuces, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, 
and a small piece of sugar ; let these continue to boil gently until 
done. When about to send the soup to table, put into the tureen half 
a pint of young green peas, an equal quantity of asparagus-heads 
boiled green, and a handful of small croutons a la duchesse, prepared 
in the following manner : — Cut the crust off a rasped French roll into 
strips ; stamp or cut out these with a round tin or steel cutter, into 
small pellets about the size of a shilling, and dry them in the oven to 
be ready for use. 

Before sending the soup to table, taste it to ascertain whether it be 
sufficiently seasoned. 

253. SPRING SOUP A LA VERTPRE. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing — except 
that the croutons a la duchesse are omitted, and in their stead a, puree 
of green spinach, in sufficient quantity to thicken and color the soup, 
should be added. 



94 CLEAR CONSOMME 

254. JARDINIERE SOUP. 

Prepare the same vegetables as for spring soup, boil them in a 
strong consomme, and just before sending the soup to table add to it 
a pint of puree of green peas. 

255. JULIENNE SOUP. 

Take three red carrots of a large size, as many sound turnips, and 
the white parts of the same number of leeks, heads of celery and 
onions. Cut all these vegetables into fine shreds an inch long. Put 
them into a convenient-sized stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
a little salt, and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Simmer these 
vegetables on a slow stove-fire, taking care they do not burn ; when 
they become slightly brown, add three quarts of blond de veau or 
light-colored consomme ; let the soup boil, skim all the butter off as 
it rises to the surface, and when the vegetables are clone, throw in the 
leaves of two cabbage-lettuces and a handful of sorrel, shred like the 
carrots, &c, add a few leaves of tarragon and chervil ; boil the whole 
for ten minutes longer, taste the soup in order to ascertain whether the 
seasoning is correct, and serve. 

256. CHIFFONADE SOUP. 

Truss two spring chickens, and boil them in some good white 
consomme. When done and cooled, cut them into small members, 
paring off the skin ; put these into a well-tinned stewpan, together 
with the stock they were boiled in, which should be clarified, if it be 
not sufficiently bright. Set the stewpan on the stove-fire to boil, and 
then add the white leaves of four cabbage-lettuces, a small handful of 
sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, and one head of celery shred fine. 
See that the soup be perfectly seasoned and of delicate flavor, and send 
to table. 

257. NIVERNAISE SOUP. 

Take four turnips, cut them into the form of small cloves of garlic, 
fry them in a little butter and sugar in a stewpan over the fire to give 
them a light brown color, then drain them upon a sieve and put them 
into a soup-pot. Scoop out the red part of two large-sized red 
carrots, blanch or parboil these for ten minutes, and, when strained, 
add them to the turnips ; then pour upon the vegetables three quarts 
of strong bright consomme, and set the soup to boil gently by the side 
of the stove-fire until the vegetables are thoroughly done, taking care 
to skim off the butter as it rises to the surface. Ten minutes before 
dinner-time, throw into the soup, while boiling, some very small 
Brussels sprouts that have been previously parboiled : and just before 
sending this soup to table, add to it about two or three dozen very 
small quenelles of pheasant. 

258. XAVIER SOUP. 

Mix wfth six ounces of sifted flour, half a pint of double cream, 
four ounces of fresh butter, and two ounces of grated Parimsan 
cheese, a little minionette pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When 
these ingredients have been thoroughly mixed together with a wooden 
spoon, put the stewpan containing them on the fire — stirring it 
quickly and continually, until it begius to thicken, when it should be 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 95 

well worked with the spoon for about five minutes. By this time the 
batter will have assumed the appearance of a firm, compact paste ; 
two whole eggs and two yelks should then be worked into it ; then 
add a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 

When this paste is so far ready, make up two half-sheets of paper 
in the shape of a funnel, with a hole at the point, a quarter of an inch 
in diameter, and fasten them with a pin. Into each of these papers 
or forcers, put as much of the paste as will nearly fill it ; close the 
large ends in the same way as you would a paper of brown sugar ; and 
with gentle pressure force the paste out at the pointed extremity on 
to a large stewpan cover (previously buttered) in the shape of large 
peas ; this is done with a sudden jerk of the wrist. When the stew- 
pan lid is covered with these fragments of paste — which, however, 
must not be close enough to touch each other — prepare some boiling 
consomme in a stewpan over the fire, and shake off the peas into it 
(which will be easily effected by just passing the lid containing the 
fragments of paste over the fire), in order to detach them, and thus 
facilitate their slipping into the broth. Let these boil very gently for 
five minutes ; strain them on a sieve, and then throw them into three 
quarts of strong bright consomme of fowl or game prepared for the 
purpose ; allow them to boil again gently for five minutes ; add a 
jrfuche of tarragon and chervil, and let these boil a short time pre- 
viously to serving up the soup. 

Send some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round 
simultaneously with this soup. 

259. DAUPHINE SOUP. 

Take half a pint of strong consomme of fowl, and pour it gradually 
into a stewpan containing eight yelks of eggs beaten up with a little 
salt, nutmeg, and pepper; when the egg is well mixed with the con- 
somme, strain it through a sieve into a round plain mould, which 
should be previously buttered carefully for that purpose. Put the 
mould holding" the preparation into a large stewpan containing water, 
to the depth of about an inch, and cover the stewpan with the lid ; 
let the water in it simmer — or gently boil — on the corner of the stove- 
fire, so as to produce sufficient steam to set the custard. When this 
is done, take it out of the water ; and after having allowed it time to 
cool, cut it into shapes resembling thick wafers, which put into two 
quarts of strong consomme of fowl, together with a pint of green 
asparagus heads, previously boiled for that purpose, a small piece of 
sugar, and a few tarragon-leaves. Allow the soup to boil very gently 
by the side of the stove-fire for about three minutes, and then send 
to table. 

260. BARLEY SOUP A LA PRINCESSE. 

Take half a pound of Frankfort pearl barley, wash and blanch it, 
and put it to boil in one quart of bright consomme of fowl. When 
the barley is sufficiently done, put it into the soup tureen with the 
members of two spring chickens (previously roasted and cut up for 
the purpose) ; to these add a sufficient quantity of consomme of fowl ; 
ana after having tested the seasoning of the soup, send to table. 



96 CLEAR CONSOMME 

261. QUENELLES OF FOWL IN CONSOMME. 

Mould three or four dozen of very small quenelles of fowl in the 
following manner : — Take up a spoonful of chicken force-meat, 
smooth it over with the blade of a small knife, which must be occa- 
sionally dipped in hot water, in order to prevent the quenelle from 
sticking to it ; and with another teaspoon, dipped in hot water, scoop 
out the quenelle from the filled teaspoon, and drop it gently on the 
bottom of a buttered sauta-pan. When this part of the operation is 
completed, a stewpau cover is held with the left hand in a slanting 
direction toward the inner part of the edge of the sauta-pan ; with 
the other band sufficient boiling water should be poured in to poach 
the quenelles : then set the sauta-pan by the side of the fire to simmer 
for about ten minutes, when the quenelles will be done. Take them 
out and lay them upon a clean cloth to drain ; after which place 
them in the soup tureen, and having poured thereon two quarts of 
bright consomme of fowl, send to table. 

262. CLEAR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Take half a pound of vermicelli, break it small and blanch it — by 
allowing it to boil three minutes in water — drain it on a sieve, and 
then put it into a stewpau with two quarts of strong bright consommv 
of fowl or game, or blond of veal, according to taste or circumstances. 
After allowing the soup thus prepared to boil up on the stove-fire, 
skim the froth from the surface, and set it to continue boiling gently 
on the corner of the stove till the vermicelli be sufficiently done. 
Then 'pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with some 
grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, separately, to be handed round 
to the guests simultaneously with the soup. This should be observed 
as a general rule, in serving up all soups containing Italian pastes in 
any form. 

263. MACARONI CLEAR SOUP. 

Boil one pound of Naples macaroni in two quarts of water, an 
ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and minionette pepper. When the 
macaroni is done, which will take about half an hour, drain it on a 
sieve, wash it in clear water, and then drain it upon a napkin, that it 
may be cut into pieces an inch long. Then put it into a soup-pot 
with two quarts of blond of veal, or consomme of fowl or of game, ac- 
cording to circumstances ; let it boil ten minntes longer and serve. 

264. ITALIAN PASTE SOUP. 

Take half a pound of Italian paste, blanch or parboil it first, and 
afterward boil it in two quarts of bright strong consomme, as directed 
for vermicelli soup, and send to table. 

265. LASAGNES SOUP. 

Lasagnes are a kind of Italian paste resembling ribbons, and must 
be treated in exactly the same way as when using macaroni for soup, 
excepting that they do not require so much boiliug. 

266. CLEAR CONSOMME WITH RICE. 

Take half a pound of Carolina rice well picked and washed, blanch 
or parboil it for ten minutes, drain the water off; and after adding 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 97 

two quarts of good clear consomme, boil it gently by the side of the 
stove-fire till the grains of the rice begin to feather or separate, when 
it will be ready to send to table. 

Observe, that broths and consommes should be always stronger 
when used for soups containing Italian pastes of any kind, rice, or 
barley : as these farinaceous substances decrease the flavor and ap- 
parent strength of soups, and render them less acceptable to the pal- 
ate of the epicure — unless counteracted by increasing the strength of 
the consomme. 

267. CLEAR RICE SOUP WITH ASPARAGUS POINTS. 

This soup is prepared in the same way as the foregoing — with the 
addition of one pint of asparagus points boiled green and thrown into 
the soup just before sending to table. 

263. CHICKEN AND RICE SOUP. 

Truss, boil, and cut into small members, two spring chickens; the 
skin should be removed, and. the pieces neatly trimmed and placed 
in the soup tureen, together with two quarts of clear rice soup, which 
.-mould be made with chicken broth or consomme, of a light color. 
The seasoning of this soup must be light. 

269. COCKY-LEEKY SOUP. 

Take two fowls, which truss, boil, and cut up as for the foregoing 
soup. To the broth they have been boiled in add two quarts of blond 
of veal, and in this boil (after having first parboiled them in water) 
the white part of a dozen leeks cut into lengths of about an inch, and 
these again cut lengthways into four. A\ 'hen the leeks have been 
boiled thoroughly soft in the broth, add the pieces of fowl ; and after 
allowing the whole to boil ten minutes longer, send to table. 

Xote. — This kind of sou]) is objected to by many who dislike the 
odor of leeks ; it is considered, however, to be a fine restorative, and 
is especially recommended to the notice of sportsmen, after a hard 
day's riding with the hounds, or fagging over the moors. 

270. SCOTCH BROTH. 

Take a neck of fresh mutton, trim it the same as for cutlets; take 
the scrag and trimmings, with two carrots, three turnips, two heads 
of celery, two onions, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and 
with these make some mutton broth — filling up with either broth 
from the common stockpot, or with water. While the mutton broth 
is boiling, cut up the neck of mutton, previously trimmed for the pur- 
pose, into chops, which should have the superfluous skin and fat 
pared away, and place them in a three-quart slewpan, together with 
the red or outer part of two carrots, three turnips, two leeks, one 
onion, and two heads of celery — the whole of these to lie cut in the 
form of very small dice ; add six ounces of Scotch barley previously 
washed and parboiled, and then pour on to the whole the broth made 
from the scrag, &c, when strained and the fat removed. Allow the 
soup thus far prepared to boil gently until the chops and the vege- 
tables be thoroughly done. Five minutes before sending the soup to 
table throw into it a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 
6 



98 CLEAR CONSOMME 

Be sparing in the use of salt, so as not to overpower the simple bnt 
sweet flavor which characterizes this broth. 

271. HODGE-PODGE* 

Make the mutton broth as shown in the preceding directions, and 
in addition to its contents add a pint and a half of green peas (either 
marrow-fats or Prussian-blues). Allow the'soup to boil gently until 
the ingredients be thoroughly done, then mix in with them one pint of 
puree of green spinach and parsley : taste to ascertain that the season- 
ing be correct, and serve. 

272. KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND RICE SOUP. 

Take a good-sized knuckle of fresh veal, cut it into four pieces — 
sawing the bones through. Place the pieces in a small stockpot with 
two calfs-feet, a partridge (an old one will do) that has been roasted 
for a quarter of an hour ; to these add three quarts of common broth 
or water. Put the soup on the stove-fire to boil, skim it well, garnish 
it with one carrot, one turnip, an onion in which has been inserted 
four cloves, and one head of celery ; also a little salt and a few pep- 
percorns. Having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the 
stove-fire for about three hours, proceed with care to take up the part- 
ridge, the calfs-feet, and also the glutinous pieces of veal, which 
place on a dish to cool in the larder. Then pass the broth through 
a napkin into a stewpan, and after having taken off every particle of 
fat, add to it half a pound of Carolina rice, which must be blanched 
or parboiled for the purpose. Allow the rice to boil gently in the 
broth till it is nearly done, then cut the fillet of partridges into pieces 
about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch wide, take the glu- 
tinous pieces of the veal and the inner tendons of the calfs feet, and 
cut these also in pieces in a similar manner to the partridge ; put the 
whole into the broth with the rice, and after boiling them together 
for five minutes send to table. 

This kind of soup may be also finished with the addition of a pint 
of green peas, which must be boiled a few minutes before serving up 
the soup, and placed in the tureen previously to pouring in the soup. 

Asparagus points may be used for the same purpose. 

273. BRUNOISE SOUP. 

Take carrots, turnips, heads of celery, leeks, and onions, of each 
a couple ; cut them into small dice and fry them in a stewpan, over 
a slow fire, with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pounded sugar, and 
a sprinkling of salt. When the vegetables have acquired a light 
brown color, pour into them three quarts of good strong bright 
consomme' or blond of veal, and put the soup on the stove to boil ; skim 
it well, and then remove it to the side, there to continue gently boiling 
until the vegetables are thoroughly done. Add half a pint of green- 
peas, a handful of French beans (cut into the form of diamonds), and 
half a pint of asparagus points (the whole having beeu previously 
boiled green for the purpose), also a few duchess' crusts ; and having 
tested the flavor and seasoning of the soup, send to table. 

* From the French, Hoche-pot. 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 99 

274. LETTUCE AND WHOLE-PEA SOUP. 

Pick, wash, and blanch, a dozen white-heart cabbage-lettuces ; cut 
them open, and spread them on a clean napkin ; season them with 
minionette pepper, and salt ; then put two together, face to face, and 
proceed to tie them up with twine. Cover the bottom of a stewpan 
with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the lettuce thereon ; pour upon 
them some broth from the boiling stockpot, over which lay a round 
of buttered paper ; place the lid on the stewpan, start them to boil on 
the fire, and then place them on a slackened stove, to simmer gently 
for about an hour ; after which, drain the lettuces on, a clean napkin, 
untie them, and after having cut them into inch lengths, lay them in the 
soup-tureen, together with a pint of young green peas boiled for the 
purpose, and a small pinch of minionette pepper. Take every particle 
of fat off the broth in which the lettuces have been braized, and add it 
to the lettuces and peas already in the tureen, over which pour two 
quarts of bright strong consomme of fowl ; ascertain that the soup be 
palatable, and having thrown in a handful of duchess' crusts, send to 
table. 

275. FLEMISH SOUP. 

Take carrots, turnips, and cucumbers, of each two, and with a vege- 
table scoop cut them out into the shape of olives or pears. To the 
foregoing add the white parts of two heads of celery, and three leeks, 
which must be cut into thick shreds half an inch long ; blanch or par- 
boil these for five minutes ; drain them on a sieve, and afterward place 
them in a small soup-pot capable of containing three quarts ; add 
rather better than two quarts of good consomme, and set the soup 
on the stove-fire to boil, skim it, and place it by the side to boil gently 
until the vegetables are sufficiently done. While the soup is boiling, 
blanch the following vegetables, which, when done, put into the soup 
with the others : a handful of Brussels sprouts, half a pint of young 
peas, a few French beans cut small, and a handful of asparagus heads. 
Add a pinch of minionette pepper ; allow the soup to boil three min- 
utes longer, and having placed some duchess' crusts in the tureen, pour 
the soup upon them, and serve. 

276. sportsman's clear soup. 

With two teaspoons mould about four dozen very small quenelles 
of any sort of game ; poach these in broth, and then drain them on a 
clean napkin, and afterward put them into a stewpan containing two 
quarts of strong bright consomme of game ; place the soup on the fire, 
and allow it to boil very gently by the side for a few minutes ; ascertain 
that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. 

This soup takes its special title from the species of game of which 
it may chance to be made ; as, for instance, Sportsman's Clear Soup 
of Pheasant, of Partridge, of Hare, &c. &c. 

277. DESCLIGNAC, OR IMPERIAL SOUP. 

Put eight yelks of eggs into a basin, with a little grated nutmeg 
and salt ; beat them together, mixing therewith half a pint of strong 
consomme of fowl or game : strain this preparation through a hair 
sieve into a plain mould, which has been buttered for the purpose. 



100 



CLEAR CONSOMME 



Steam this in the same way as you would any other custard ; and, when 
done, put it to cool in the larder. Cut the custard, thus prepared, into 
fanciful shapes, and having placed them in the tureen, pour on gently 
two quarts of boiling, strong, bright consomme, of the same kind that 
is used to mix the custard with. 

278. PAYSANNE SOUP. 
This is to be prepared in exactly the same manner as the Flemish 
soup, except that, instead of the Brussels sprouts, the following must 
be used : the leaves of two summer cabbages cut into pieces the size 
and shape of a shilling, the hearts of four lettuces slit into thick 
shreds, a few leaves of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil. After these have 
been boiled with the other vegetables ten minutes, add to them two 
dozen scollops of braized beef; season with a little minionette pepper, 
and serve. 

279. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA JARDINIERE. 
Foe a dinner of sixteen covers, order a dozen small rolls to be made 

of the size and shape of an egg ; rasp them, and take the crumb out 
carefully without disturbing the shape of the rolls. When the crumb 
is taken out, put the rolls or hollow crusts on a baking sheet in the 
oven, for the purpose of making them crisp, as well as to give them a 
light brown color. 

An hour before dinner, put the crusts, thus prepared, into a deep 
silver dish, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of consomme of 
fowl to cover them. Place the dish, containing the crusts, on a trevet 
over a stove-fire of moderate heat, and there allow the crusts to become 
gratinated, that is to say, to acquire, by means of boiling down, a con- 
centration of flavor, and that appearance of crispness, which is as 
alluring to the eye as it is savory to the palate. When the consomme 
is perfectly absorbed by the crusts, put them in the oven, in order to 
increase their crispness ; but be extremely careful that they do not burn. 
Just before sending to table, pour on to the cr.usts, thus prepared, a 
jardiniere, composed of small pipelike pieces of carrots, turnips, 
celery, leeks, a few small button onions, green peas, French beans, 
asparagus-heads, and also a few flowerets of white cauliflower. Only 
a small quantity of consomme should be put with the crusts and 
Jardiniere,* as it is usual to serve up a tureen of clear consomme 
separately, from which the guests are served ; a small ladleful of the 
gratinated crusts, &c, should be first put into the soup-plate, and some 
of the consomme added "afterward. 

280. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA PRINCESSE. 
Prepare the same number of rolls, according to the preceding 

instructions. 

A few minutes before dinner, add to the crusts three dozen small 
quenelles of chicken rolled into the shape of pieces of macaroni, an 
inch long, half a pint of asparagus-heads, and a little boiling consommts. 
Send up two quarts of consomme in a soup-tureen, and serve as 
described in the last-mentioned soup. 

281. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA ROYALE. 
Prepare the crusts as before stated, adding four ounces of grated 

* This observation is applicable to all gratinated soups. 



SOUPS IN GENERAL. 101 

Parmesan cheese and a little rninionette. Just before dinner-time, lay 
upon the crusts (graduated in the usual way) some shapes of chicken 
custard, described in the preparation of Descliynac soup; and serve 
up according to the preceding detail. 

282. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA FERNEUSE. 

Prepare the crusts as before described, cut three large sound 
turnips into small fancy shapes, fry them in a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and a little salt, 
over a slow fire, until they have gradually acquired a light brown 
color ; then add a pint of consomme, and let them simmer gently by 
the side of the stove-fire until thoroughly done. When about to 
send the soup to table, pour the turnips thus prepared on to the gra- 
duated crusts, and to them add a pint of young peas boiled green, 
and a few white button onions boiled in broth. Serve as before 
stated. 

283. SOUP OF GRATINATED CRUSTS A LA BEAUJON. 

Prepare the crusts as before, and when they are gratinated, add a 
pint of reduced puree of young carrots, put these into the oven for 
ten minutes, and just before sending to table, pour over the crusts 
thus prepared half a pint of large heads of asparagus and some 
shreds of celery kept ready boiled in broth for the purpose, and 
serve with the consomme in a tureen separately. 



PUREES OP VEGETABLES IX GENERAL FOR SOUPS, 



COMPRISING 



Purer; of Pea.- a I' Anglaise. Purie of Spinach a la Beauvauuc. 

Do. of Green Split Pea.-. Do. of Peas a la Faubonne. 

Do. of Red Haricot beans (i la Condi. Do. a la Ferney. 

Do. of White Haric6t Beans. Do. d la Fabert. 

Do. of Lentils d la Peine. Do. of Spring Herbs. 

Do. of Lentils a la Soiibise. Do. a la Victoria. 

Do. of Lentils « la Urdnoise. Do. « la Princesse. 

Do. of Green Peas. Do. of Young Carrots d la Stanley. 

Do. of Roots d la Croissy. Cricy Soup with whole Riee. 

Do. of Carrots d la Crecy, Do. of Potatoes a la crime. 

Brown puree of Turnips. Do. of Potatoes << la Victoria. 

White do. of Turnips. Quenelles of Potatoes. 

Palestine Soup. Do. of Asparagus d la Condi. 

Puree of Artichokes. Do. a In St. George. 

Do. of Endive. Bonne Fettime Soup. 

Brown puree of Chestnuts. Soup d la Hollandaise. 

White do. of Chestnuts. 

284. PUREE OF PEAS A L'ANGLAISE. 

Take a epiart of yellow split-peas, wash them several times in 
water, drain them, and put them into a small stockpot with half a 

pound of raw ham, two heads of celery, one carrot, and an onion 
with four cloves stuck in it, add three quarts of common broth, let 

the soup boil, skim it well, and then set it by the side of the stove- 



102 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

fire to boil gently for about three hours. The peas having then be- 
come entirely dissolved, pass them through a tainmy-clpth with the 
aid of two wooden spoons, to be used in the following manner : 
spread the tammy-cloth over a large dish, pour the puree, or part 
thereof, into the hollow thus formed ; then let two persons take hold 
firmly of each end of the tammy-cloth with the left hand, so as care- 
fully to secure the puree against flowing over ; then, with the right 
hand, they should work the edge of the spoon, the bowls being back 
to back, in the cloth, in regular time and with some force, until the 
whole of the puree is rubbed through : it will be, however, necessary 
to scrape off with the back of a large knife any portion that may ad- 
here to the cloth. When this is done, hasten to remove the puree 
from the dish into a soup-pot of adequate size ; add a large ladleful 
of consomme, carefully stirring the puree on the stove-fire until it be- 
gins to boil, then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue gently 
boiling until it has clarified itself by throwing up all the froth, which 
should be removed as it rises to the surface. Ascertain whether the 
seasoning be palatable, and send to table with some dried and sifted 
mint in a plate ; and in another plate serve some Conde crusts, pre- 
pared as follows : 

Take a piece of stale bread, pare away the crust, and then cut the 
crumb into very small square dice, fry these in fresh butter till they 
become slightly browned, then drain them on a sieve, and afterward 
place them on a sheet of paper, moving them about for a short time 
that the butter may be absorbed. Keep these croutons in a dry place 
until wanted. Just before dinner-time, they should be put inside the 
oven for a few minutes. 

285. PUEEE OF GREEN SPLIT-PEAS. 

Follow the foregoing instructions, taking care, however, to substi- 
tute green split-peas for yellow. When the puree is ready, in order 
to give it as much as possible the appearance of having been made with 
green peas, mix in with it some extract of spinach,* adding two small 
pats of butter and a little sugar. Serve separately some mint in 
powder, and Conde crusts on plates. 

286. PUREE OF RED HARICOT BEANS. 

Take one quart of red haricot beans, and having put them to soak 
the overnight, drain off the water on the following morning; put 
the beans into a small stockpot, with carrots, celery, an onion stuck 
with three cloves, and a knuckle of raw ham ; add three quarts of 
good stock, and set the whole on the stove-fire to simmer gently for 
about four hours. Then remove the carrot, celery, onion, and the 
ham ; drain off the broth from the beans, and pound them in a 

* Extract of spinach is thus prepared: Wash and pound in a mortar a sufficient 
quantity of spinach for a small dish, until it assumes a pulpy appearance; turn it out 
upon a strong kitchen rubber, the opposite ends of which are to be gathered up and held 
in the left hand by two persons, who must take care to fold the extremity of the cloth 
firmly round tho handle of a wooden spoon, which will give them a strong purchase, 
acting as a windlass, and will enable them to wring the cloth so tightly as to express 
all the moisture of the spinach. To receive this extract, a stewpan should be placed 
ready ; it should be held over the fire until it becomes coagulated, and must be put upon 
a hair sieve to drain off any remaining watery particles. Work tho spinach-green 
through the sieve with a spoon, and this will form the extract. 



FOR SOUPS. 103 

mortar, after which place them in a stewpan, add the broth, and then 
pass the puree through the tammy-cloth in the usual manner; it should 
then be poured into a soup-pot, and if too thick to clarify, a little broth 
should be added ; stir it over the stove-fire until it boils, and then 
remove it to the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling until it 
becomes bright : of course all the scum must be carefully removed 
while boiling. Finish the soup by adding two small pats of fresh 
butter and a little pounded sugar. Conde crusts should be handed 
round with this soup. 

287. PUREE OF WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 

Is made like the preceding, except that white haricot beans must be 
substituted for red ; moreover, in finishing this puree, in addition to 
the butter and sugar, half a pint of boiling cream should be poured in 
Serve with Conde crusts on a plate. 

288. PUREE OF LENTILS A LA REINE. 

Take one quart of reddish-brown lentils, prepare them exactly as 
described for the treatment of red haricot beans in making that puree ; 
finish also in a similar manner, and serve with Conde crusts. 

289. PUREE OF LENTILS A LA SOUBISE. 

This is made like the foregoing, but there must be added a puree 
of four large onions, prepared in the following manner : — slice up the 
onions, fry them brown in a little butter, adding to them a little broth; 
having allowed them to simmer gently on the fire until done, pass them 
in the usual way through a tammy, and mix the puree thus obtained 
with the soup ; and when it has cleared itself by boiling, taste it to 
ascertain its seasoning, and send to table with Conde crusts separately. 

290. PUREE OF LENTILS A LA BRUNOISE. 

This soup is recommended to be served when there happens to be 
in the larder any remaining stock of puree of lentils, or brunoise soup, 
which can be mixed for this purpose. The Conde crusts should be 
omitted, 

291. GREEN-PEAS SOUP. 

Take two quarts of green-peas, a double-handful of parsley, four 
stalks of green mint, and a good handful of green onions. Having 
put two quarts of common broth on the stove-fire, throw in the above 
ingredients as soon as it begins to boil ; when the peas are thoroughly 
done, drain them and the other vegetables in a colander, then pound 
them well together ; the puree thus far prepared should be put into a 
stewpan together with its own liquor, warm it until it becomes suffi- 
ciently dissolved, and then rub it through a tammy-cloth in the usual 
manner. Just before sending to table, warm the soup on a brisk stove- 
fire, adding two pats of fresh butter and a little pounded sugar. 

Send Conde crusts on a plate.* 

* In order to avoid unnecessary repetition, it should be observed, that CnnrJe crusts 
must be served with the succeeding^in-ees of vegetables, except when otherwise directed. 



104 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

292. PUREE OF ROOTS A LA CROISSY. 

Cut into thin shavings six large carrots, and slice very small the 
same number of turnips, three onions, and three heads of celery ; add 
a handful of sorrel, and a little chervil and tarragon ; put these into a 
stevvpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter on a slow fire, and 
let it remain there until the vegetables are steamed sufficiently to 
reduce their quantity to one-half; then add two quarts of broth, and 
put the pan on the fire to boil ; skim it, and remove it to the side to 
boil gently for about an hour and a half; after which, proceed to drain 
the roots from the broth in a colander, pound them in a mortar, and 
having mixed them with the liquor, warm the puree thus obtained, and 
rub it through the tammy-cloth in the usual way. Then put the puree 
into a soup-pot (with more broth if needed), and allow it to boil on 
the stove-fire ; after this, place it by the side to clarify itself by gentle 
ebullition ; and when it ceases to throw up any froth or scum, finish 
the soup by adding one pat of fresh butter and a little pounded sugar, 
and send to table. 

293.. PUREE OF CARROTS A LA CRECY. 

Shave off the red part of about twelve large carrots, add one head 
of celery and one onion ; blanch these in boiling water on the fire for 
ten minutes ; drain them in a colander, and afterward put them into 
a small stockpot with two ounces of fresh butter, an ounce of lump 
sugar, and a little salt. Set the carrots thus prepared on a slow fire 
to steam, and when they have become considerably reduced in quantity 
(without burning or acquiring any color) add to them two quarts of 
good broth, and let the carrots boil gently for an hour ; then drain 
them — pound and rub thein through a tammy in the usual way, ami 
clarify the puree in the same manner as directed in the preceding 
article. Finish this soup by incorporating with it one pat of fresh 
butter and a little pounded sugar. 

294. BROWN PUREE OF TURNIPS. 

Slice up about eight large sound turnips, put them into a stewpan, 
into which a quarter of a pound of fresh butter has been previously 
melted, and add a tablespoonful of pounded sugar. Fry the turnips 
thus prepared over a rather brisk fire, in order to give them a light 
brown color ; when this is effected, add two quarts of good stock, allow 
the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about three- 
quarters of an hour ; then drain, pass, and proceed to clarify the puree 
in the usual manner. 

Observe, that this kind of puree should not be thick. 

295. WHITE PUREE OF TURNIPS. 

Slice up a dozen large sound turnips, put them into a stewpan 
with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of pounded 
sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put these to simmer on a slow 
fire, without allowing them to acquire any color. When the turnips 
begin to melt, add two quarts of white consomme of fowl ; and 
having set the whole to boil gently on the corner of the stove for about 
three-quarters of an hour, proceed to drain, pass, and pound the 
turnips — reserving the broth they have been boiled in to clarify the 



FOR SOUPS. 105 

puree with ; after it has boiled, skim off all the froth, and finish the 
soup by adding (just before sending to table) a pint of boiling cream 
and a pat of fresh butter, winch must be thoroughly incorporated 
with the soup 

296. PALESTINE SOUP. 

Cleanse, peel, wash, and slice up half a peck of Jerusalem arti- 
chokes ; put them into a stew pan with four ounces of fresh butter, 
and allow them to simmer gently on a slow fire, until they are re- 
duced in quantity and partially melted — taking care that they do not 
get colored in the process. Then add two quarts of strong white 
consomme of fowl, and after allowing it to boil gently for three- 
quarters of an hour, proceed to rub the whole through a tammy-cloth 
in the usual way, and clarify the puree. Just .before sending to 
table, add a pint of boiling cream, a small piece of glaze, and a little 
pounded sugar. 

A 297. PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 

Turn or peel the bottoms of a dozen fine artichokes, and, after 
taking out the fibrous part inside, cut each into four pieces ; put 
them into a large stewpan previously welj buttered, and strewn with a 
little pounded sugar, — placing the pieces of artichokes closely beside 
each other, and then set them on a slow fire to stew very gently, that 
they may acquire a light brown color. Then proceed in every 
respect to finish this soup in the same manner as directed for 
Palestine soup. 

298. PUREE OF ENDIVE. 

This soup should be made only when endives are plentiful and 
of good quality, as in the autumn season, when they are full and 
white. Having trimmed away all the green and outer leaves of about 
three dozen endives, which should be thoroughly washed and 
examined in order to pick out any insects, blanch them in boiling 
water and a little salt for ten minutes ; then take them out and throw 
them into cold water ; drain them in a colander, and with both hands 
press all the water from them. Having so far prepared the endives, 
cut off the roots and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of 
fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a little sugar. With a 
wooden spoon, stir the endives over a slow fire for about ten minutes ; 
then add a ladleful of good white consomme of fowl ; allow this to con- 
tinue gently simmering on a very slow fire, or in the oven, for an 
hour : and then pass the endives through a tammy as usual. To the 
puree thus obtained, add one quart of white consomme of fowl ; clarify 
it according to custom, and just before sending the soup to table, 
mix with it a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh butter, and 
serve. . 

This soup is recommended for its lightness and cooling effect. 

299. BROWN PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Take a hundred chestnuts (Spanish or Lyons chestnuts are the 
best) cut off the points or slit them across to prevent them from 
bursting and flying about; put them in a stewpan with two ounces of 
fresh butter, and fry them on a moderate fire until they shed their 
husks readily ; then peal them clean, aud put them into a stewpan 



106 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

with a quart of veal gravy, and set them by the side of the stove to 
boil gently until they become quite soft to the touch ; drain them 
from the liquor, and, after having first pounded, and afterward 
rubbed them through the tammy (pouring in the liquor reserved for 
the purpose to enable the puree to pass quicker), add another quart of 
veal gravy to clarify the puree, — this, after being set to boil on the 
stove, must be then removed to the side, there to continue gently 
boiling that it may throw up the butter to the surface, which must 
be removed with a spoon as it rises. Finish by mixing in with the 
puree a small pat of butter, a little sugar, and a small piece of glaze, 
and serve up. 

300. WHITE PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Prepare a hundred large chestnuts as for the preceding soup, 
except that white consomme of fowls or rabbits must be used to boil 
them in, as well as to finish the puree with. When the puree has 
been clarified as directed above, just before serving it up add a pint 
of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. 

301. PUREE OF SPINACH A LA BEAUVAUX. 

Pick, wash, and boil a large dish, of spinach ; chop it well and 
pound it into a soft paste, and then put it into a stewpan with four 
ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt ; stir it on a 
stove-fire for about ten miuutes ; then add a large soup-ladleful of 
Veloute sauce and about a quart of white consomme of fowl, or any 
other strong white broth at hand ; warm the puree on the stove-fire, 
and rub it through the tammy. 

Observe, that this puree must not be clarified, it should be kept in 
the coolest part of the larder until twenty minutes before sending it to 
table ; it must then be made hot by stirring it on the stove-fire, and 
when just on the point of boiling, mix with it a pat of butter, a small 
piece of glaze, and a little pounded sugar. 

302. SOUP A LA FAUBONNE. 

This soup consists of a puree of green peas, made in the usual way, 
in which must be mixed, previously to serving it up, a pint of young 
peas boiled green, six cabbage-lettuces braized, and cut into pieces an 
inch long, and two cucumbers cut up into scollops, and afterward 
boiled in consomme. 

There need not be any crusts sent to table with this soup, nor in- 
deed is it customary to serve croutons or crusts of any sort for purees 
that contain a garnish of any kind. 

303. SOUP A LA FERNEY. 

This excellent soup is thus made : prepare twelve very small cus- 
tards (made with consomme) in dariole moulds ; cut three turnips into 
very small fancy shapes, and fry them in a little fresh butter and sugar 
until they become of alight brown color; a little consommi should 
then be added, and they must be allowed to finish simmering on a very 
slow fire, and when done, must be set to drain upon a clean napkin, 
and afterward put into a soup tureen with the small custards; to these 
add two cucumbers — cut into scollops and boiled in consmiiDir for the 
purpose; and lastly, pour some boiling puree of green peas on the 
above, and serve. 






FOR SOUPS. 107 

The puree in this and similar cases, should be kept rather thinner 
than when inteuded to be served without a garnish. 

304. SOUP A LA FABERT. 

Take six quails, draw, singe, and cut them into quarters, making 
two fillets with the pinion left on as for a fricassee, and bone the legs, 
leaving only sufficient length of the thigh-bone to give it the shape 
of a cutlet, rolling the skin round so as to give it a cushionlike 
appearance. Place these in a stewpan, the bottom of which has 
been covered with thin layers of fat bacon ; take care to preserve the 
shape of the members, and braize them in a light wine mirepoix 
(No. 236). 

Having thus prepared the quails, when done, drain and trim them, 
and afterward place them in the soup-tureen, together with their 
own stock, which when freed from every particle of fat, must then be 
clarified, and also a proportionate quantity of Julienne vegetables — 
prepared as for the soup bearing that name ; and then, over these, 
pour a puree of green-peas nearly boiling, and send to table. 

305. PUREE OF SPRING HERBS. 

Take a double-handful of sorrel, three cabbage-lettuces, a handful 
of chervil, the same proportion of dandelion, and a little balm and 
burrage. Wash these thoroughly and place them in a stewpan with 
two ounces of fresh butter, and set the whole on the stove-fire to 
simmer, quickly stirring them the whole time ; then add three pints 
of good consomme of veal or fowl ; allow the soup to boil gently by 
the side of the fire for half an hour ; and just before sending to table, 
finish the soup by mixing in it gradually, a leason* of six yelks of 
eirgs and half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, 
and pounded sugar. Put some duchess' crusts in the soup-tureen, 
pour the soup thereon, and serve up. 

Be careful that the soup be not allowed to boil, as, in that case, 
the eggs would curdle, and thereby render the soup unsightly, if not 
unpalatable. 

306. PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS A LA VICTORIA. 
Just before dinner-time, roast off two plump spring chickens ; as 
soon as they are taken off the spit, cut the breasts and legs into small 
members, put them into the soup-tureen with two dozen small 
quenelles of fowl, and then pour on the whole a puree of green-peas 
nearly boiling and prepared in the usual manner, and send to table. 

307. PUREE OF GREEN-PEAS A LA PRINCESSE. 

Prepare a steamed custard in the manner following : — Take one 
pint of cream of rice (No. 317), mix gradually therewith eight yelks 
of eggs ; pass this preparation through a tammy into a plain round 
mould — previously buttered for the purpose — and after having 
steamed it in the same way as you would any other custard, allow it 
to get cold, turn it out of the mould, and then cut it into small pillar- 
like shapes an inch long : put these into the soup-tureen with a little 
consomme, to prevent them from being clogged together, pour a 
boiling puree of green-peas on them, and send to table. 

* From the French liainou, a connection or binding. 



108 PUREES OF VEGETABLES 

308. PUREE OF CARROTS A LA STANLEY. 

Having prepared about two quarts of puree of young carrots, when 
ready to serve up, pour it boiling into the soup-tureen containing a 
pint of young peas boiled green, and three dozen very small quenelles 
of fowl. 

309. CRECY SO.UP WITH WHOLE RICE. 

Wash, blanch, and boil in consomme, half a pound of Carolina rice ; 
add this to a sufficient quantity of Crecy or carrot soup, either pre- 
pared for the occasion, or reserved from the previous day's dinner. 
Mix these together gently, and take care not to break the grains of 
rice, nor to serve it too thick. 

Note. — This may be varied by substituting macaroni, vermicelli, 
or any other kind of Italian paste for the rice. This rule is applicable 
to purees of vegetables in general. 

310. POTATO SOUP A LA CREME. 

Cleanse, peel, wash, and slice up about twenty large-sized, good 
potatoes. Put them into a stewpan with one large onion, and one 
head of celery — also sliced up ; add four ounces of fresh butter, a 
little pepper, salt, aud grated nutmeg ; set them to simmer on a slow 
fire,' stirring them occasionally, until they are nearly dissolved into a 
kind of puree. Then add to them three pints of good white comommi', 
and after having allowed the potatoes to boil gently by the side of a 
moderate fire for half an hour, pass them through the tammy, and 
having removed the puree into a soup-pot, add, if requisite, a little 
more consomme, and set the puree on the fire to boil gently by the 
side of the stove, in order to clarify it in the usual manner required 
for other purees of vegetables. Just before sending to table, add ,\ 
pint of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a little pouuded 
sugar. 

Serve the fried crusts with this soup. 

311. POTATO SOUP A LA VICTORIA. 

Prepare a puree of potatoes as directed above, and finish it in the 
same manner. When about to send to table, place three dozen of 
small quenelles of potatoes (No. 312) in the soup-tureen, with half a 
pint of large heads of asparagus boiled green, and the same propor- 
tion of French beans cut into diamond shapes and boiled, aud then 
pour the boiling puree thereon, and serve. 

312. QUENELLES FOR POTATOES. 

Bake six large potatoes, cut them into halves, scoop them out on 
to a wire sieve, and rub "them through it, on to a dish, with a wooden 
spoon ; then put the potato thus obtained into a stewpan, with four 
ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of double-cream, a little grated 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Stir this on a rather brisk fire until the 
paste ceases to adhere to the spoon; then remove the potatoes 
from off the fire, and mix in with them the yelks of three eggs 
and also two whites of egg which have been whipped to a froth 
observing that this preparation must be kept of the same consis. 
tency as any other quenelles. Then mould the quenelles aceording u 



FOR SOUPS. 109 

the size and shape required, and poach them in boiling water with a 
little salt in it. 

313. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS A LA COXDE. 

Order two quarts of very young and green asparagus peas, or two 
large bundles of good sprue asparagus ; break off the heads so far 
down to the foot of the stalks that they will readily snap off without 
resistance, which will prove them to be young and tender ; throw these 
into a large pan of cold water, together with a handful of spinach, 
the same quantity of parsley and of green onions. Having got these 
ready, set a large stewpan on the fire half filled with boiling water, 
with a handful of salt in it . First drain the asparagus, &c, into 
a colander, and then put the whole into the stewpan on the fire to boil 
fast ; when they are done, drain them again in a colander, let some 
cold water run over them for the purpose of retaining their greenness; 
and being well drained of the water, put them into a middle-sized 
stewpan, with a quart of good Veloute sauce (Xo. 4), a tablespoonful 
of pounded sugar, and a little grated nutmeg and salt. Stir the whole 
on a brisk lire until it has boiled about three minutes, when it must be 
passed through a tammy-cloth or sieve on to a large dish, and 
after being removed into a soup-pot, should be placed on the ice 
in the larder to keep cool, in order that it may the better retain 
its green color and delicate flavor. Ten minutes before serving up 
the sou}) to table, stir it on a brisk fire until it is nearly boiling, 
remove it from the stove, and, having mixed in with it a pat of 
butter and a small piece of light-colored glaze, send to table with 
a plate of croutons. 

314. PUREE OF ASPARAGUS A LA ST. GEORGE. 

Prepare a puree similar to the foregoing, place in the soup-tureen 
about three dozen very small quenelles of fowl, and about half a pint 
of small fillets or shreds of red tongue, cut in the same lengths and 
thickness as vegetables for Julienne soup ; then, with a silver spoon, 
stir the above about gently in the tureen, so as to mix the ingredients 
with the puree (which must be poured on to them quite hot), and send 
to table. 

315. BOXXE FEMME SOUP. 

Trim and wash six cabbage lettuces; and having also well washed 
a double-handful of sorrel, shred these as you would do if they were 
intended for Julienne soup. Put two ounces of butter into a stew- 
pan, and having melted it on the lire, add the lettuces and sorrel, and 
with a wooden spoon stir them over the stove until they are stewed, 
which will require about ten minutes; then add two quarts of good 
strong chicken consomme, and having allowed the soup to boil 
gently by the side of the stove-fire for about half an hour, take 
it off, in order that it may cool a little, and mix in with it a leason or 
binding of eight yelks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a small pat of 
butter, and a little pounded sugar to rectify the acidity of the 
sorrel. Stir the soup quickly on the fire, in order to set the leason 
in it, taking care that it does not curdle ; add a small piece of 
glaze, pour the soup into the tureen upon some duchess' crusts, and 
serve. 



110 SOUPS MADE WITH RICE 

316. SOUP A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Peel three carrots, and an equal number of turnips and cucumbers ; 
scoop these out into the shape of small olives, and, after blanching 
them, boil them in two quarts of good strong blond of veal ; when the 
vegetables are done, remove the soup from the fire, and mix in with it 
a leason of eight yelks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, 
and a little sugar ; set the leason by stirring the soup over the fire, 
and then pour it into the soup-tureen, containing about half a pint of 
young peas boiled green, and an equal proportion of French beans cut 
iuto diamonds, and serve. 



SOUPS MADE WITH RICE OR PEARL-BARLEY, 



COMPRISING 



Cream of Rice d la Royale. Cream of Pearl-barley d la Reine. 

Do. d la Victoria. Do. d la Printaniere. 

Do. d la Cardinal. Do. d la Royale. 

Do. d la Juvenal. Do. d la Princetse Alexandrina. 

Do. d la Chatnenr. Do. d la Duchesse. 

Cream of Pearl-barley d la Victoria. 

317. CREAM OF RICE A LA ROYALE. 

Wash and blanch one pound of Carolina rice, drain it from the 
water, and put it into a stewpan with about three quarts of white 
consomme of fowls ; set it to boil on the stove, and skim it well, after 
which remove it to the side of the fire to boil gently until the grains 
of rice are thoroughly done ; then rub the whole through a tammy, 
moistening with more broth, if necessary. When this is done, put 
the pur&e into a small soup-pot, to be clarified by ebullition, in 
the same manner as a sauce ; and just on the point of sending it 
to table, add half a pint of boiling cream, and then pour the soup 
into the tureen containing a dozen small custards of chicken, made 
thus : — 

Roast a young fowl, from which take the whole of the breast and all 
the white part of the legs ; chop and pound them with a large spoon- 
ful of white sauce, then pass this through a tammy with the wooden 
spoons ; put the puree thus obtained into a quart basin, together with 
eight raw yelks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; having well 
stirred these together, mix with them half a pint of consomme of fowls, 
and then pour this preparation into twelve small dariole moulds, pre- 
viously buttered for the purpose ; set them carefully in a fricandeau 
pan, containing sufficient boiling water to reach half way up the moulds, 
put the lid en the pan, and place it either on a very moderate fire, or 
in the oven — observing, that in the former case some live embers of 
charcoal must be put on the lid. Abont ten minutes will suilice to 
poach the custards, when they must be turned out of the moulds on to 
a napkin, and afterward placed in the soup-tureen, previously to pour- 
ing the puree upon them. 



OR PEARL-BARLEY. Ill 

318. CREAM OP RICE A LA VICTORIA. 

Prepare the cream of rice as above directed, and twenty minutes 
before sending to table add to it about a quarter of a pound of 
whole rice, well boiled in white consomme of fowls : this rice must 
be boiled in the puree for twenty minutes ; and just before serving 
the soup, mix in with it a pint of boiling cream and a pat of fresh 
butter. 

319. CREAM OP RICE A LA CARDINAL. 
Prepare a cream of rice in the usual way, and pour it into a 

soup-tureen containing thirty tails of crayfish and three dozen very 
small quenelles of fowls. A good tablespoonful of crayfish or lobster 
butter, and the juice of half a lemon, should be mixed in with the 
soup previously to pouring it upon the crayfish tails, &c. 

320. CREAM OF RICE A LA JUVENAL. 

To a cream of rice prepared according to the instructions for 
making the cream of rice a la Royale, there must be added, with 
a leason of six yelks of eggs, half a pint of cream, and two ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese ; having thoroughly incorporated these, 
while stirring the soup over the fire (taking care that it does not 
boil), pour the soup into a tureen containing three dozen very small 
quenelles of fowls, colored with a little spinach-green (No. 285). 

321. PUREE OF RICE A LA CHASSEUR. 

Wash and blanch half a pound of Carolina rice, and after drain- 
ing all the water from it, put it on to boil with a quart of consomme 
of pheasant or partridge. When the rice is sufficiently done, rub 
it through the tammy, and having clarified it in the usual way, by 
adding some of the same sort of consomme the rice is boiled in, 
about five minutes before sending the soup to table, mix in with 
the cream of rice the puree of one pheasant or two partridges (as 
the case may be). 

Be careful not to allow the soup to get too hot after adding the 
puree of game to* it, as it would be sure to decompose, and become 
rough and unsightly. Should this accident, however, occur, it may 
be remedied by taking the soup away from the fire, putting a little 
consomme to it, and quickly rubbing it through the tammy again ; 
by these means it will resume its proper smoothness. 

This remedy will be found effectual for rectifying similar accidents, 
should they occur, with meat purees in general. 

322. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY A LA VICTORIA. 
Wash a pound of pearl-barley in several waters, blanch, and 
drain it upon a sieve, and having allowed some cold water to run 
over it for a few minutes, put it into a stewpan with two quarts of 
white consomme of fowls, and set it to boil by the side of a slow 
fire for four hours. When the barley is sufficiently done to admit of 
its being bruised easily, set one-third of it apart in a small soup-pot, 
and immediately proceed to rub the remainder through a tammy ; 
then mix the cream of barley thus obtained with the whole barley 
which has been set aside. Ten minutes before serving up this soup, 
add to it half a pint of boiling cream. 



112 SHELLFISH SOUPS. 

323. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY A LA REIXE. 

The process for making this soup is exactly the same as that used 
for making the cream of rice a la Chasseur, barley being substituted 
for rice, and poultry for game: see No. 321. 

324. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Having prepared a cream of pearl-barley as above directed, just 
before sending to table, pour it into a soup-tureen containing three 
dozen small quenelles of fowl, and half a pint of large heads of aspa- 
ragus boiled green, and serve. 

325. CREAM OF PEARL-BARLEY A LA ROYALE. 

The puree of barley being prepared as described in the foregoing 
directions, and finished in the same manner, pour it into a soup-tureen 
containing two spring chickens, roasted for this purpose just before 
dinner-time, and cut into small members neatly trimmed. 

326. CREAM OF BARLEY A LA PRINCESSE ALEXANDRIA. 

To make this soup, white consomme of game should be used to 
prepare the cream of barley, the puree being finished according to 
the method observed in former cases ; when about to send the soup to 
table, pour it into a tureen containing scollops of the fillets of three 
young red-legged partridges, roasted a few minutes previously for the 
purpose. 

327. CREAM OF BARLEY A LA DUCHESSE. 

Having prepared a steamed custard of fowl, as directed in the 
preparation for making Desclignac soup (No. 258), cut the custard 
thus made (allowing it time to become cold and firm) into small 
pillars an inch long, then place them carefully in the soup-tureen 
with a little consomme ; proceed to pour on them a cream of barley 
prepared and finished in the usual way, and to which has been added 
a tablespoonful of lobster butter and a little cayenne pepper. 



BISQUES OF CRAYFISH AND SHELLFISH SOUPS IN 

GENERAL, 



COMPRISING. 



Bisque of Quails d la Prince Albert. Bisque of Crayfish d la Malmeobury. 
„ Rabbits au VelontL „ Crab d la Fitzhartlinge. 

„ Snipes d la Bonne bouche. „ Lobsters <i la Stanley. 

„ Crayfish d VAncihme. „ Prawns d la Cerito. 

328. BISQUE OF QUAILS A LA PRINCE ALBERT. 

Fillet six quaiis, half of which must be made into force-meat 
quenelle, and kept in a cool place until wanted for use ; reserve the 
remainder of the fillets to be lightly simmered in fresh butter, seasoned 
with a little salt, and eventually cut into scollops. 



SHELFISH SOUPS. 113 

Take the larger bones out of the carcasses of the quails, and having 
roughly chopped the latter, put them into a stewpan with two ounces 
of fresh butter, a small bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, three shalots, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a pinch of minionette pepper ; set these on a brisk 
fire, and pass or fry them brown, then add half a Lottie of chopped 
mushrooms and a bottle of Sauterne wine. Allow this to boil quickly 
for ten minutes, and then add about half a pound of rice, which has 
been partly boiled in broth, and a quart of blond of veal ; after the 
fore-mentioned ingredients have been gently boiling for about an hour, 
drain them into a sieve, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar ; 
then replace them in the stewpan, add the broth they were boiled 
in, stir the puree on the fire to warm it a little, and rub it through the 
tammy in the usual way. When this is done, place the puree in 
a well-tinned soup-pot, in a cool place. Just before dinner-time, 
warm the puree of quails, carefully observing that it does not get too 
hot ; finish seasoning it by mixing in a little crayfish butter, a table- 
spoonful of partridge glaze, and a little salt if needed ; pour the 
soup into a soup -tureen containing the fillets of quails cut into 
neatly-trimmed scollops, as well as three dozen very small quenelles 
made with the fillets kept in reserve for the purpose, and send 
to table. 

329. BISQUE OR BABBITS AU VELOUTE. 

Fillet two young rabbits, make half the fillets into force-meat for 
quenelles; pare off all the meat from the rabbits, and with the car- 
casses prepare a brown consomme in the usual manner. Put the 
remainder of the fillets and all the meat that has been cut from the 
rabbits into a stewpan, with two ounces of fresh butter, three shalots, 
bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, nutmeg, minionette pepper, and salt, and 
fry them brown. Then add two glasses of sherry ; and after allow- 
ing the whole to boil briskly for about three minutes, pour in the 
consomme made from the carcasses. Let the stock thus far prepared 
boil gently by the side of a stove-fire for about an hour, then drain 
the contents of the stewpan into a sieve, pound them thoroughly, 
and after having mixed the produce with their own stock, rub the 
puree thus obtained through a tammy, together with a large ladleful 
of good Veloute sauce. The puree should then be put into a soup- 
pot, and kept in a cool place until within ten minutes of dinner-time, 
when it must be stirred over the fire to make it sufficiently hot ; and 
after ascertaining that its seasoning is correct, pour the bisque into a 
soup-tureen containing three dozen small quenelles of rabbit, made 
with the fillets which have been reserved for that purpose, and 
serve. 

330. BISQUE OR SNIPES A LA BONNE BOUCHE. 

Procure six fat snipes, perfectly fresh and not fishy ; fillet them, 
and follow the instructions given for making the bisque of quails a la 
Prince Albert (No. 328), but omitting the crayfish butter. Warm 
the puree of snipes just before it is wanted for table, pour it into a 
soup-tureen containing the scollops made from half the fillets, and 
three dozen small quenelles made from the remainder. 

Send up with this soup, to be handed rouud, some croutons of 
fried bread cut in small circular pieces about the eighth of an inch 
7 



114: SHELLFISH SOUPS. 

thick ; a circular incision having been made on one side of the bread 
before it is fried, the inner part is afterward easily taken out, and in 
its place should be put a farce, made with the trail of half the snipes 
(the remainder should be used in the puree). This farce is to be 
prepared thus : — 

Put the trail into a small stewpan with a little fresh butter, pepper, 
and salt, and after frjing it lightly on the fire for a minute or two, 
add a tablespoonful of good brown sauce, and then rub it through a 
hair-sieve with a wooden spoon. Fill the croutons with this farce, 
smoothing the surface with a small knife ; and previously to serving 
them, put them on a sauta-pan in the oven for five minutes to 
warm them ; serve them on a plate, to be handed round with the 
soup. 

Take care not to throw the croutons into the soup, as that would 
destroy their crispness. 

331. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH A L'ANCIEXXE. 

To make soup enough for sixteen persons, procure sixty crayfish, 
from which remove the gut containing the gall, in the following 
manner :■ — Take a firm hold of the crayfish with the left hand, so as 
to avoid being pinched by its claws ; with the thumb and fore-finger 
of the right baud pinch the extreme end of the central fin of 
its tail, and, with a sudden jerk, the gut will be withdrawn. Then 
mince or cut into small dice, a carrot, an onion, one head of celery, 
and a few parsley roots ; to these add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
a little minionette pepper, and two ounces of butter. Put these 
ingredients into a stewpan, and fry them on the fire for ten minutes; 
then throw in the crayfish, and pour on them a bottle of French white 
wine. Allow this to boil, and then add a quart of strong consomme, 
and let them continue gently boiling for half an hour. Tlien pick out 
the crayfish, and strain the broth through a napkin by pressure into a 
basin, in order to extract all the essence from the vegetables. Pick 
the shell oft" fifty of the crayfish tails, trim them neatly, and set them 
aside until wanted. Reserve some of the spawn, and also half the 
body shells, with which to make the crayfish butter (No. 184) to finish 
the soup. Take all that remains, and add thereto six anchovies 
washed for the purpose, and also a plate of crusts of French rolls fried 
of a light brown color in butter. Pound all these thoroughly, and 
then put them into a stewpan with the broth that has been reserved in 
a basin, and having warmed the bisque thus prepared, rub it through 
a tammy into a puree. Then take the puree up into a soup-put : 
finish by incorporating therewith the crayfish butter, season with a 
little cayenne pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the bisque 
quite hot into the soup-tureeu containing the crayfish tails, and send 
to table. 

332. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH A LA MALMESBURY. 

Cleanse thoroughly two quarts of muscles, steam them in a well- 
covered stewpan, and then pick out all the white muscles from the 
shells, and put them into a stewpan with some of their own liquor. 
To these add forty tails of crayfish, and three dozen very small 
quenelles of whiting which have been mixed with sufficient chopped 
and blanched parsley to give them a green color. Just before din- 



SHELLFISH SOUPS. 115 

ner-time, warm the muscles, &c, in a little consomme, put them 
into the soup-tureen, and then pour the bisque of crayfish quite hot 
on to them. Let the bisque be prepared in the same way as de- 
scribed in the bisque of crayfish a Vancienne. When there is not 
sufficient time for thickening the puree by the addition of the fried 
crusts of the Frence rolls, a little well-boiled rice, some reduced Veloute 
sauce, or even the crumb of two French rolls soaked in hot broth and 
pounded with the crayfish, may be used, but the fried crusts are to be 
preferred. 

333. BISQUE OF CRAB A LA FITZHARDINGE. 

Procure one large boiled crab, pick the white meat from the claws 
into shreds, and put it away between two plates in a cool place 
until wanted. Scoop out all the pulpy part of the crab, as well as 
all the white meat to be found in the shell, and pound these well, 
with about half the quantity of rice boiled in broth ; dilute the 
whole with a quart of good consomme, and then rub it through a 
tammy into a puree, put it into a soup-pot, and keep it in a cool 
place. 

Just before sending to table, stir the puree over the fire with a 
wooden spoon, taking care that it does not get too hot, as that would 
cause the soup to curdle. Finish seasoning the soup by mixing with 
the puree a pint of boiling cream and a little cayenne pepper ; then 
pour the soup into a tureen containing the shredded meat taken out 
of the claws, previously made warm in a small quantity of consomme, 
and send to table. 

334. BISQUE OF LOBSTERS A LA STANLEY. 

Take all the meat out of two hen-lobsters, reserving the pith, 
coral, and spawn, separately. Cut the meat of the lobster into small 
pieces, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, 
one head of celery, and a carrot, cut into small shreds, a small piece 
of mace, thyme, pepper, and a little salt; fry these over the fire for 
five minutes, and then, having moistened them with about a pint of 
Rhenish white wine, allow the wdiole to. boil smartly on the fire for 
about twenty minutes. Drain the lobster, &c, into a sieve, then 
pound this thoroughly in a mortar, and put it again into the stewpan 
with the pith or inside part reserved for the purpose, and also the 
broth, adding thereto about a quart of clarified and reduced Veloute 
sauce, and a pint of strong consomme, then rub the puree through 
the tammy ; and after having taken it up into a soup-pot, place it in 
the cool until wanted. 

Ten minutes before dinner-time, put the bisque to warm, stir- 
ring it the whole of the time, taking care to prevent its curdling. 
Finish seasoning it with some lobster butter, a little soluble cayenne 
pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a piece of light-colored glaze, 
the size of a walnut. Pour the soup into the tureen containing fifty 
tails of prawns, with three dozen small quenelles of whiting, and 
serve. 

335. BISQUE OF PRAWNS A LA CERITO. 

Procure two pounds of fresh prawns, pick and trim fifty of the 
largest of them, which, when done, put into a small stewpan, to 



116 FISH SOUPS. 

remain in the larder until wanted. Then cut into small shreds or dice 
six young carrots, a little celery, and a few parsley roots ; and having 
put these into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a sprig of thyme, 
some minionette pepper, and a little salt, set the whole on the fire 
to be fried of a light color. Next, throw in the remainder of the 
prawns, as well as the bodies of those from which the tails have 
been taken ; and then add a pint of Sauterne wine ; allow these in- 
gredients to boil for ten minutes, and then add a quarter of a pound 
of rice previously boiled in broth, and also a quart of strong white 
consomme of veal. Having allowed this to boil gently by the side 
of the stove-fire for half an honr, strain the whole into a sieve — re- 
serving the broth in a basin. Then pound the prawns, rice, and vege- 
tables all together in a mortar, dilute with the broth which has been 
reserved, and rub the whole through a tammy in the usual manner ; 
put the -puree into a soup-pot, and keep it in a cool place until dinner- 
time, when, having made it sufficiently hot without allowing it to boil, 
finish it by mixing in with it some lobster coral butter, a little soluble 
cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the soup into the 
tureen containing the fifty prawns' tails, with three dozen small que- 
nelles of trout, and serve. 



FISH SOUPS AXD WATER SOUCHETS IX GENERAL, 



COMPRISING 



Oyster Soup d la Ple**y. Sturgeon Soup d la Chinoit* 

Soup of fillets of Soles d la Bagration. Do. d V Indiinne. 

Potage of Eels d la Richmond. Water-souchet of Crimped Salmon. 

Do. of fillets of Flounders d VAnglaite. Do. of Plain Salmou. 

Sturgeon Soup d V Amiricaine. Do. of fillets of Perch. 

Do. d I'Anglaite. Do. of fillets of Soles. 

336. OYSTER SOUP A LA PLESSY. 

Four dozen of oysters will suffice for eight persons. Blanch or 
scald these by boiling them for a few minutes on the fire, drain them 
and save the liquor ; wash the oysters, and pull off the beards and 
tendons, leaving only the delicate fat part of the oysters, which put 
into a basin with their liquor. Next, prepare some quenelles from 
the fillets of three whitings ; put their bones and trimmings into a 
small stewpan with six flounders, an eel cut into pieces, some parsley 
roots, a carrot, one head of celery, a sprig of thyme, two blades of 
mace, and a few peppercorns. To these add a pint of French white 
wine and the liquor of the oysters ; set the whole to boil briskly for 
ten minutes, then add six whole anchovies (washed for the purpose) 
and three pints of white consomme. Allow the stock thus prepared 
to boil gently for three quarters of an hour ; then strain it off through 
a sieve into a stewpan, and thicken it with some white roux, and as 
soon as it has boiled, set it by the side of the stove to clarify itself 
in the usual way. When the body of the soup thus far prepared has 
been rubbed through a tammy, finish it for table, just before dinner- 
time, by mixing in with it a leason of six yelks of eggs, a gill of 



FISH SOUPS. 117 

cream, a little soluble cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; 
then pour the soup into the tureen containing the oysters reserved 
for that purpose, with about three dozen quenelles of whiting, and 
serve. 

337. SOUP OF FILLETS OF SOLES A LA BAGKATION. 

Fillet three large soles, and place the fillets lengthwise in a 
sauta-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter, season with a 
little pepper and salt, and some lemon-juice, cover them with a round 
of buttered paper, and set them in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for 
ten minutes, when they will be done. Take the fillets up, and set 
them in press between two dishes, and when cold, with a round 
tin cutter, stamp them out into small scollops, and place them in a 
small stewpan in the larder until wanted. Make some quenelle of 
the fillets of one large sole, color it with some lobster coral, and 
mould it with two teaspoons into very small quenelles, which, when 
poached, place with the scollops of soles ; to these add about three 
dozen blanched muscles. Mix with these ingredients about two 
quarts of the same kind of soup-sauce as used for the preceding soup, 
and when about serving it up for table, place the scollops of soles, 
the muscles, and the red quenelles (first warmed in a small quantity 
of the soup) into the tureen, and then mix in with the soup a table- 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pour it on to the scollops, 
&c, and serve. 

338. EEL SOUP A LA EICHMOND. 

Fillet three Thames eels, and cut the fillets into small scollops ; 
place these, in circular order, in a large sauta-pan containing about 
four ounces of clarified butter ; season with cayenne pepper, salt, 
lemon-juice, and chopped parsley ; set the covered sauta-pan on the 
stuve-fire to simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then add two 
glasses of sherry, after which let it boil sharply for a few minutes 
longer. Put the scollops of eels thus prepared into the soup-tureen, 
with three dozen tails of crayfish, and instantly pour over these a 
soup sauce, previously prepared according to the following direc- 
tions : 

Cut into shreds or dice, carrot, celery, parsley-roots, one shalot, 
and half a pottle of mushrooms. Put these into a stewpan with a 
sprig of thyme, a small bay-leaf, a little sweet basil, a few peppercorns, 
and one blade of mace. Fry these ingredients with four ounces of 
butter until they begin to be of a light brown color ; then throw in the 
bones and trimmings of the eels, three dozen bruised crayfish, and a 
pint of Chablis wine. -Allow this to boil briskly on the fire for five 
minutes, then add three pints of blond of veal, and after it has boiled 
gently by the side of the stove-fire for three-quarters of an hour, strain 
the stock through a tammy-cloth with considerable pressure, in order 
to extract all the goodness from the vegetables, &c. 

Put the broth thus prepared into a stewpan, and having thickened 
it with some white roux to the consistency of a thin sauce, work it 
according to the method observed for all sauces. Observe, that as this 
sauce is for soup, it should be lighter in substance. Finish with a 
leason of eight yelks of egg and season accordingly, and mix in with 
it a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. 



118 FISH SOUPS. 

339. SOUP OF FILLETS OF THAMES FLOUNDERS A L AXGLAISE. 

Fillet ten Thames flounders, simmer the fillets in a little fresh 
butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. When done, 
place them in the soup-tureen with three dozen quenelles of Spey trout, 
and pour on them a soup made according to the following direc- 
tions : 

Put the bones and the trimmings of the flounders and the trout, 
from which the small quenelles are to be made, into a stewpan with 
carrot, celery, parsley-roots, a sprig of thyme, and a few peppercorns. 
To these add three pints of common broth from the boiling stockpot 
(if possible) and a couple of glasses of Sauterne. When it has boiled 
for three-quarters of an hour, strain off the broth into a small soup- 
pot, and make it into a smooth white Veloute sauce; just before pour- 
ing it into the soup-tureen (containing the fillets of flounders and the 
small quenelles of trout already mentioned) finish it by mixing in with 
it a leason of six yelks of egg, a gill of cream, and a dessert-spoonful 
of chopped and blanched parsley, a little lemon-juice, and cayenne 
pepper. 

340. STURGEON SOUP A L'AMERICAINE. 

Procure six pounds of fresh sturgeon, one-third of which must be 
trimmed and tied so as to preserve it from falling to pieces while being 
braized, then put it in a stewpan, and cover it with some mirepoix 
(No. 236/ or wine braize prepared as directed. Let it boil, and then 
set it in the oven for about an hour and a half, more or less, according 
to the size of the fish. When this portion of the sturgeon is done, let 
it be put away in the larder to get cold, in order that it may be after- 
ward cut into scollops to be put into the soup. 

While the above is in course of preparation, make a brown sauce 
with the remainder of the sturgeon, as follows : 

Butter a large stewpan, then cut two onions in slices and strew 
them over the bottom ; on these place the sturgeon cut in thick 
slices, also two old hens partly roasted, and well colored, a carrot, 
one head of celery, some parsley-roots, thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, 
two blades of mace, and a dozen peppercorns ; then add a large ladle- 
ful of good stock, and put the whole to boil briskly on the tire until 
the broth is nearly reduced ; slacken the stove to prevent the glaze 
thus obtained from being burnt, by which the unctuousness would 
be lost. Then proceed with this sauce exactly as shown for the 
treatment of brown sauce or Espagnole. Having thus produced a 
bright, thin, brown sauce, finish the soup by mixing in a ragout- 
spoonful of puree of turtle herbs, a piece of anchovy butter, a little 
grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, lemon-juice, and a glass of Madeira. 
Let the scollops boil a few minutes in the soup previously to adding 
the butter, &c. When about to serve up the soup, pour it into 
a tureen containing three dozen small quenelles of lobster, and send 
to table. 

341. STURGEON SOUP A L'ANGLAISE. 

Prepare the sturgeon for this soup in the same way as for the 
preceding, with the exception that the sauce must be white. Having 
made a thin while Veloute sauce, in sufficient quantity for the pur- 
pose, and seasoned it with the same ingredients as before-named, 



FISH SOUPS. 119 

add a ragout-spoonful of essence of turtle herbs, two glasses of sherry, 
a leason or binding of six yelks of eggs, a gill of cream, a little 
cayenne pepper and lemon-juice. When about to send the sou}) to 
table, pour it into the tureen containing the scollops of sturgeon cut 
into square pieces, three dozen small round pellets of yelks of eggs (pre- 
pared as for mock-turtle), and all the cartilaginous parts of the stur- 
geon cut into scollops also. 

The pellets of yelks of eggs here alluded to are thus prepared: — 
Take the yelks of six eggs boiled hard, pound them in the mortar 
with a pat of fresh butter, a piece of bread-crumb twice the size of an 
eg<r, soaked in milk, and afterward squeezed in a napkin to extract all 
the moisture from it; to these add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, 
and one whole Qgix. Mix the whole well together by pounding, and 
then proceed to mould this paste into small round balls or pellets, the 
size of a nut, and poach them as you would any other que /wilts. 

341a. sturgeon soup a la chixoise. 

Procure the head of a large sturgeon, saw it in halves from the 
back of the head down to the snout ; then saw the halves into 
pieces of the size of your fist, and place them in a large-sized pan with 
cold water to soak for several hours; taking care to wash them and 
change the water frequently. Next, put the pieces of sturgeon into 
a larire stewpan in plenty of cold water, and set them on the fire to 
boil gently until the husk or shell is easily detached from the pieces 
of cartilage or gristle ; place the latter, when thoroughly freed from 
the meaty and fatty substances, in a large stewpan ; moisten with good 
veal stock in sufficient quantity to make soup enough for the number 
of guests. Garnish with carrots, onions, celery, a fagot of parsley, 
y;vi-<j\\ onions, marjoram, thyme, and sweet basil, three blades of mace, 
twelve cloves, and twenty peppercorns ; boil gently for about two hours. 
As soon as you find that the pieces of cartilage are become trans- 
parent and rather soft to the touch, they must be immediately 
drained upon a sieve, and the liquor placed in a clean stewpan and 
set beside a stove-fire, adding half a bottle of good sherry and a 
small pinch of cayenne. Allow the soup to boil gently by the side 
of the stove for about half an hour, taking care to remove all the 
scum and grease that rises to the surface; after which add the pieces 
of cartilage and the juice of a lemon, and serve. This soup is very 
strengthening ; the wine, lemon-juice, and cayenne may be dis- 
pensed with for invalids. The head of the sturgeon forms an excel- 
lent substitute for turtle, and may be dressed after the same 
manner. 

342. sturgeon soup a l'indienne. 

Prepare the sturgeon consomme as for the preceding soups, bearing 
in mind that it should have no more color than it acquires from the 
roasted hens. Having strained the stock when done into a large 
basin, and preserved all the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon, get 
a carrot, one head of celery, and two onions, cut these into thin 
slices, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and half a pound of raw ham cut into small square pieces ; 
fry the whole of a light brown color over a slow fire. When this is 
done, add to the fore-named ingredients some sifted flour, in suffi- 



120 WATER SOUCHETS. 

cient quantity to thicken the soup, and stir it on the fire a few min- 
utes longer ; then take the stewpan off the stove and mix the sturgeon 
broth in carefully, so as to keep the sauce smooth. Add two table- 
spoonsful of Cook's or Bruce's Indian Curry Paste, and after allow- 
ing it to boil, lift it off the fire and set it by the side of the stove, there 
to throw up all the butter it contains, and to clarify itself in the usual 
way. When this is effected, rub the soup-sauce, including the vege- 
tables, &c, through a tammy into a puree, which put into a soup-pot 
with the. scollops and the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon ; after 
boiling the whole together for a quarter of an hour, skim the surface, 
and finish by adding a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and the juice 
of a lemon. Send to table with a plate of plain boiled Patna rice, to 
be handed round with the soup. 

343. WATER SOUCHET OF CRIMPED SALMON". 

Perfection in the preparation of this dish can only be attained by 
using the fish a few hours after it is caught. Moreover, those engaged 
in catching the fish should be instructed to cut it into slices half an 
inch thick, and to keep it in cold spring water for a couple of hours or 
so ; when, as is well known, the salmon will acquire that degree of 
firmness peculiar to all crimped fish. 

Place the slices of salmon in a stewpan with some shred parsley 
roots previously boiled for the purpose, and also the water they have 
been boiled in, some picked parsley leaves, minionette pepper, and 
sufficient salt to season it ; moisten with some essence of fish, which 
should be made either from the inferior pieces of the salmon, or else 
with half a dozen flounders or slips. Let the water souchet thus far 
prepared boil briskly until the salmon be done, which will require about 
six minutes. It should be served quickly, but just before sending to 
table you may add a little bright consomme. Many, however, prefer 
the latter omitted, cousideriug that it dimiuishes the sweetness of the 
crisp creamy salmon. 

With all water souchets send plates of brown bread and butter. 

344. WATER SOUCHET OF PLAIN SALMON. 

Trim and fillet the required quantity of plain salmon ; place the 
fillets neatly side by side iu a stewpan, and put them by till dinner- 
time. 

Meanwhile prepare the water souchet broth as follows : — Put the 
trimmings of the salmon into a stewpan, with carrot, celery, and 
parsley roots, the whole sliced up. Add a little minionette pepper 
and salt, and about two glasses of French white wine ; fill up with 
water or weak broth, allow it to boil, and then set it by the side of the 
stove to continue gently boiling for half an hour; then strain the 
souchet off through a napkin on to the fillets of salmon, set them to 
boil briskly on the fire for about five minutes, add the shred parsley 
roots and picked parsley leaves ; and when the whole has boiled 
together for three minutes, serve the water souchet in a deep silver 
dish or small soup-tureen. 

345. WATER SOUCHET OF FILLETS OF PERCH. 

Procure four good-sized perch, clean and fillet them. Place the 
fillets neatly in a deep sauta-pan, and put them in the larder until 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 121 

wanted. Meanwhile, with the bones and trimmings prepare the 
souchet broth according to the directions given for making the pre- 
ceding souchet, and finishing in precisely the same manner. 

346. WATER SOUCHET OF FILLETS OF SOLES. 

Having filleted the soles and trimmed the fillets, take hold of each 
and fold one end over the other ; batter the ends together with the 
handle of a knife, pare off any rough fragments that may remain about 
them, and place them in circular order in a stewpan ; then pour over 
them the souchet prepared in the usual manner with the bones and 
trimmings, &c. Let the fillets thus arranged boil for five or six 
minutes ; ascertain that they are done, and serve them in a water- 
souchet dish, with parsley roots and leaves, previously prepared for 
that purpose. 

Water-souchets of fillets of trout, char, and indeed of almost every 
species of the more delicate kinds of fresh-water fish, are made accord- 
ing to the foregoing directions. 



ENGLISH SOUPS, 

COMPRISING 

Turtle Soup. Calves'-feet Soup d la Windsor. 

Do. clear. Hare Soup d I'Anglaite. 

Mock-Turtle Soup. Do. d la St. George. 

Do. clear. Leveret Soup d la Jlossie. 

Mulligatawney do. Ox-cheek Soup. 

Giblet Soup a I'Anglaise. Deer's-head do. 

Do. d V Irlandaiae. Grouse do. d la Montagnarde. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

347. TUETLE SOUP. 

Procure a fine lively fat turtle, weighing about 120 lbs. : fish of 
this weight being considered the best, as their fat is not liable to be 
impregnated with that disagreeable strong savor objected to in fish of 
larger size. On the other hand, turtle of very small size seldom 
possess sufficient fat or substance to make them worth dressing. 

When time permits, kill the turtle overnight that it may be left to 
bleed in a cool place till the next morning, when, at an early hour, it 
should be cut up for scalding — that being the first part of the opera- 
tion. If, however, the turtle is required for immediate use, to save 
time, the fish may be scalded as soon as it is killed. 

The turtle being ready for cutting up, lay it on its back, and with 
a large kitchen-knife separate the fat or belly-shell from the back, 
by making an incision all round the inner edge of the shell ; when 
all the fleshy parts adhering to the shell have been carefully cut 
away, it may be set aside. Then detach the intestines by running 
the sharp edge of a knife closely along the spine of the fish, and 
remove them instantly in a pail, to be thrown away. Cut off the 
fins and separate the fleshy parts, which place on a dish by them- 
selves till wanted. Take particular care of every particle of the 
green fat, which lies chiefly at the sockets of the fore-fins, and more 



122 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

or less all around the interior of the fish, if in good condition. Let 
this fat, which, when iu a healthy state, is elastic and of a bluish color 
while raw, be steeped for several hours in cold spring water, in order 
that it may be thoroughly cleansed of all impurities. 

Then, with a meat saw, divide the upper and under shells into 
pieces of convenient size to handle; and, having put them with the 
tins and head into a large vessel containing boiling water, proceed 
quickly to scald them ; by this meaus they will be separated from 
tne horny substance which covers them, which will then be easily 
removed. They must then be put into a larger stockpot nearly 
filled with fresh hot water, and left to continue boiling by the side 
of the stove-fire until the glutinous substance separates easily from 
the bones. Place the pieces of turtle carefully upon clean dishes, 
and put them iu the larder to get cold ; they should then be cut up 
into pieces about an inch and a half square, which pieces are to be 
finally put into the soup when it is nearly finished. Put the bones 
back into the broth to boil an hour longer, for the double purpose of 
extracting all their savor aud to effect the reduction of the turtle 
broth, which is to be used for filling up the turtle stockpot here- 
after. 

In order to save time, while the above is in operation, the turtle 
stock or consomme, should be prepared as follows : 

With four ouuces of fresh butter, spread the bottom of an eighteen- 
gallon stockpot ; theu place iu it three pounds of raw ham cut in 
slices, — over these put forty pounds of leg of beef and knuckles 
of veal, four old hens (after having removed their fillets, which are 
to be kept for making the quenelles for the soup) ; to these add all 
the fleshy pieces of the turtle (exceptiug those pieces intended for 
entrees), and then place on the top the head and tins of the turtle ; 
moisten the whole with a bottle of Madeira and four quarts of good 
stock ; add a pottle of mushrooms, twelve cloves, four blades of mace, 
a haudful of parsley roots ; aud a good sized bouquet of parsley tied 
up with two bay-leaves, thyme, green onions, and shalots. Set the 
consomme thus prepared on a brisk stove-fire to boil sharply, and 
when the liquid has become reduced to a glaze, fill the stockpot up 
instantly, and as soon as it boils, skim it thoroughly, garnish with the 
usual complement of vegetables, and remove it to the side of the stove 
to boil gently for six hours. Remember to probe the head and fins 
after they have beeu boiled two hours, and as soon as they are done 
drain them on a dish, cover them with a wet napkiu well saturated 
with water to prevent it from sticking to them, and put them away in 
a cool place with the remainder of the glutinous parts of the turtle, 
already spoken of. The stockpot should now be filled up with the 
turtle broth reserved for that purpose, as directed above. When the 
turtle stock is done, strain it off into an appropriate-sized stockpot, 
remove every particle of fat from the surface, and then proceed to 
thicken it with a proportionate quantity of white roux to the con- 
sistency of thin sauce. Work this exactly in the same manner as prac- 
ticed for Espagnole or brown sauce, in order to extract all the butter 
and scum, so as to give it a brilliant appearance. 

One bottle of old Madeira must now be added, together with a 
puree of herbs of the following kinds, to be made as here directed: 

Sweet basil must form one-third proportion of the whole quantity 






ENGLISH SOUPS. 123 

of herbs intended to be used ; winter savory, marjoram, and lemon - 
thyme, in equal quantities, making up the other two-thirds : add to 
these a double-handful of parsley, half a bunch of green onions, a 
handful of green shalots, and some trimmings of mushrooms ; moisten 
with a quart of broth, and having stewed these herbs for about an 
hour, rub the whole through the tammy into a puree. This puree 
being added to the soup, a little crystallized soluble cayenne pepper 
should then be introduced. The pieces of turtle, as well as the fins, 
which have been also cut into small pieces, and the larger bones taken 
out, should now be allowed to boil in the soup for a quarter of an 
hour, after which carefully remove the whole of the scum as it rises to 
the surface. The degree of seasoning must be ascertained that it may 
be corrected if faulty. 

To excel in dressing turtle, it is necessary to be very accurate in 
the proportions of the numerous iugredients used for seasoning this 
soup. Nothing should predominate, but the whole shold be harmoni- 
ously blended. 

Put the turtle away in four-quart sized basins, dividing the fat 
(after it has been scalded and boiled in some of the sauce) in equal 
quantities into each basin ; as also some small quenelles, which are 
to be made with the fillets of hens reserved for that purpose, and in 
which, in addition to the usual ingredients in ordinary cases, put six 
yelks of eggs boiled hard. Mould these quenelles into small round 
balls to imitate turtle's eggs, roll them with the hand on a marble 
slab or table, with the aid of a little flour, and poach them in the 
usual way. 

When the turtle soup is wanted for use, warm it, and just before 
sending it to table, add a small glass of Sherry or Madeira, and the 
juice of one lemon to every four quarts of turtle. 

The second stock of the turtle consomme should be strained off 
after it has boiled for two hours, and immediately boiled down into 
a glaze very quickly, and mixed in with the turtle soup previously to 
putting it away in the basins ; or else it should be kept in reserve 
for the purpose of adding proportionate quantities in each tureen of 
turtle as it is served. 

348. CLEAR TURTLE SOUP. 

Proceed in the preparation of the turtle stock, in every respect, 
according to the preceding instructions. 

The glutinous parts of the turtle having been cut into squares, 
select the dark-colored pieces proceeding from the back shell, and 
keep them for the clear turtle. When the turtle stock has boiled six 
hours, strain it off and divide it into two equal parts ; the one to be 
finished in the usual manner, the other to be first freed from every 
particle of grease, and afterward clarified in the usual manner, with 
two whites of eggs whipped up with a little spring water, and the 
addition of a glass of French white wine, or the juice of a lemon ; 
add a proportionate quantity of turtle herbs, to give the requisite 
flavor, and set it to boil on the stove-fire, whisking it the whole 
time. As soon as the egg begins to separate in the stock, l'emove it 
to the side of the stove, pour in half a bottle of Madeira, and allow 
the whole to simmer gently nntil the egg be thoroughly set. Then 
proceed to strain it through a napkin into a large stevvpan, in which 



124 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

afterward put the pieces of turtle selected for the pnrpose ; boil them 
in it until they are sufficiently done, and then add a little crystallized 
soluble cayenne. pepper, and serve. 

If considered desirable, a little lemon-juice and a few quenelles of 
fowl may be added, as also some of the finest pieces of the green fat. 

Clear turtle soup is preferred by some epicures to that which is 
dressed in the usual way, from its bing free from the additional com- 
pounds used in the full-dressed turtle. It is, in consequence, much 
lighter, more delicate and pure, aud is unquestionably easier of 
digestion. 

349. MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

Procure a scalded calfs head, or, as it is sometimes called, a 
turtle-head ; bone it in the following manner : — Place the calfs head 
on the table with the front part of the head facing you ; draw the 
sharp point of a knife from the back part of the head right down to 
the nose, making an incision down to the bone of the skull ; then 
with the knife clear the scalp and cheeks from the bones right and 
left, always keeping the point of the knife close to the bone. Having 
boned the head, put it into a large stewpan of cold water on the fire ; 
as soon as it boils, skim it well, and let it continue to boil for ten 
minutes ; take the calfs head out and put it into a pan full of cold 
water. Then get a proper sized stockpot, and after having buttered 
the bottom thereof, place in it four slices of raw ham, two large 
knuckles of veal, and au old hen partially roasted, moisten with two 
quarts of broth, and put the stockpot on the stove-fire to boil until 
the broth is reduced to a glaze, when instantly slacken the heat by 
covering the fire with ashes, and then leave the soup to color itself 
gradually. Allow the glaze at the bottom of the stewpan to be re- 
duced to the same consistency as for brown sauce, and fill up the 
stockpot with water, leaving room for the calfs head, which separate 
into two halves, and pare off all the rough cuticle about the inner 
parts of the mouth, then place it in the stock, and after setting it to 
boil, and thoroughly skimming it, garnish with the usual complement 
of vegetables, six cloves, two blades of mace, half a pottle of mush- 
rooms, four shalots, and a good bunch of parsley, green onions, 
thyme, and bay-leaf tied together, and a little salt. Set it by the fire 
to boil gently till the calf's head is done ; then take the pieces of 
head out, and place them on a dish to cool, afterward to be cut into 
squares, and pnt into a basin till required for adding them to the 
soup. Strain the stock through a broth cloth, and thicken it with 
some light-colored roux, to the consistency of thin brown sauce ; let 
it boil, and allow it to throw up all the butter, and clarify itself 
thoroughly ; then add half a bottle of Sherry, about half a pint of 
puree of turtle herbs (Xo. 317) in which six anchovies have been 
mixed, a little crystallized soluble cayenne pepper, and the calfs head 
cut into squares, as also the tongue braized with it. Let these boil 
together for about ten minutes, then add three or four dozen small 
round quenelles and a little lemon-juice, and send to table. 

350. CLEAR MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

To make this soup, follow the instructions laid down for making 
clear turtle, merely substituting calf's head for turtle. 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 125 

351. MULLIGATAWXET SOUP. 

Cut up two or more chickens as for fricassee, place them neatly 
in a stewpan, in which previously put carrot, onion, celery, parsley, 
thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace ; fill up with good veal broth, and 
when the members of chicken are nearly done, strain them off into 
a sieve, saving their broth in a basin. Cool the pieces of chicken in 
spring water, and then take them up on a clean napkin, trim them 
neatly, and place them in a soup-pot, to be put into the soup after- 
ward. Then cut four large onions in halves, taking out the head or 
root part, and again cut these into slices ; place them in a stewpan 
with four ounces of butter, a carrot, and two heads of celery cut 
small, and fry these over a slow fire until the onion is nearly melted, 
and become of a fine light brown color; then throw in as much 
flower as will suffice to thicken the quantity of soup you wish to 
make ; stir this on the fire two or three minutes, and after adding 
a good tablespoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of curry 
paste, proceed gradually to mix in with these, first the broth the 
chickens were boiled in, and afterward as much more consomme of veal 
as may be found requisite to produce the quantity of soup desired. 
Place this on the stove-fire, stirring it the whole time, and as soon as 
it boils, put it by the side of the stove to clarify itself in the usual way ; 
then rub it through the tammy into a puree, and pour it upon the 
pieces of chicken. Half an hour before dinner-time, place the soup 
on the stove-fire, stir it till it boils, place it by the side to continue 
boiling gently for ten minutes, by which time the chickens will be done ; 
skim the soup, ascertain that the seasoning be correct, and send to 
table with two plates of plain boiled Patua rice, to be handed round 
with the soup. 

352. GIBLET SOUP A L'AXGLAISE. 

Take four sets of giblets properly cleaned and trimmed, put them 
into a stewpan full of boiling water, to scald for five minutes; drain 
them in a colander, immerse them in cold water, and then place them 
on a napkin to drain. Singe the necks and wings over the flame of 
a charcoal fire, and carefully pick out all the stubble feathers, cut the 
giblets up into inch and a half lengths, place these in a stewpan with 
two heads of celery, carrots, onions, turnips, in equal proportions; 
also, four cloves, two blades of mace, and a bunch of parsley, with a 
moderate quantity of basil, winter savory, lemon-thyme, and green 
onions, a sprig of common thyme, and one bay-leaf. Fill the stewpan 
with four quarts of blond of veal, and after allowing these to boil 
gently by the side of the stove-fire till they are done (which will be 
seen when the pieces of gizzard are become tender), immediately drain 
them in a large sieve, pouring their broth into a basin. Immerse the 
giblets in cold water, then pick them out free from any particles of 
herbs or vegetables that may adhere to them ; place them on a napkin, 
and when neatly trimmed, put them by in the soup-pot. Next, pour 
the giblet broth into an adequate-sized stewpan, and having thickened- 
it in the usual manner with a sufficient quantity of roux to the con- 
sistency of thin sauce, set it to boil on the stove-fire, and afterward 
place it by the side to clarify itself. When the sauce has been cleared 
of the butter, &c, add half a bottle of Sherry and a little cayenne, 
and then pass the sauce on to the giblets, and put the soup in 



126 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

the larder till dinner time ; when, having allowed tlie giblets to 
boil in the sauce a few minutes, add a little lemon-juice, and send 
to table. 

353. CLEAR GIBLET SOUP A L'iRLANDAISE. 

Prepare the giblet broth in every respect as directed for making 
the foregoing soup, trim and put the giblets away in a soup-pot, skim 
off every particle of fat from the surface of the broth, and clarify 
it by incorporating therewith the whites of three eggs whipped up 
with a little cold water ; set the consomme, thus prepared, on the stove 
to boil, then add to it half a bottle of Sherry ; and as soon as it boils 
up again, place it by the side of the stove, there gently to simmer for 
twenty minutes, in order to set the eggs. Then strain the consomme 
through a napkin on to the giblets, reserving one quart of it in a 
stewpan, in which boil the white parts of three heads of celery, and 
four large leeks, cut into inch lengths, and shred as for Julienne soup, 
adding this to the giblets ; ascertain that the seasoning be palatable, 
and send up to table. 

354. OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Procure two fresh ox-tails, cut each joint, after dividing them, into 
inch lengths with a small meat saw, steep them in water for two hours, 
and then place them in a stewpan with three carrots, three turnips, 
three onions, and two heads of celery, four cloves, and a blade 
of mace. Fill up the stewpan with broth from the boiling stock- 
pot ; boil this by the side of the stove-fire till done, drain the 
pieces of ox-tail on a large sieve, allow them to cool, trim them 
neatly, and place them in a soup-pot. Clarify the broth the ox- 
tails were boiled in, strain it through a napkin into a basin, and 
then pour it into the soup-pot containing the trimmed pieces of 
ox-tails, and also some small olive-shaped pieces of carrot and 
turnip that have been boiled in a little of the broth, aud a small 
lump of sugar; add a pinch of minionette pepper, and previously to 
sending the soup to table, let it boil gently by the side of the stove-fire 
for a few minutes. 

This soup may be served, also, in various other ways, by adding 
thereto a puree of any sort of vegetables ; such, for instance, as a 
puree of peas, carrots, turnips, celery, or lentils. 

355. calf's feet soup a la Windsor. 

Place in a two-gallon stockpot a knuckle of veal, a pound of raw 
lean ham, two calf's feet, and an old hen minus the fillets, which 
reserve for making quenelle* with, for further use. To these add two 
carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves, celery, a bouquet of parsley, 
green onions, sweet basil, and lemon-thyme, tied neatly together ; 
moisten with half a bottle of light French white wine, and put the 
stockpot on a moderate fire to boil for ten minutes or so; then till 
it up from the common stock, or any white broth you may have 
ready, set it to boil on the stove, skim it well, and after four hours' 
gentle ebullition, take the calf's feet out, and put them in water to 
clean them ; then take all the bones out, and lay them on a dish to 
cool, to be trimmed afterward, so as to leave the inner part of the 
feet only, all the outer skin being thinly pared off, that the feet may 



L 



ENGLISH SOUPS. 127 

have a more transparent appearance ; cnt them into inch lengths, by 
half an inch in width, and put them by in a small soup-pot till re- 
quired. Strain the consomme through a napkin, thicken it moderately 
with a little white roux (going through the regular process for making 
white Veloute), then add thereto a little essence of mushrooms, and 
finish by incorporating with the sauce thus prepared a leason of six 
yelks of eggs mixed with a little grated Parmesan and half a pint of 
cream ; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into it, and season with a little 
crystallized soluble cayenne. Pour the soup into the tureen containing 
two dozen very small quenelles (made with the fillets of the old hen), 
some boiled macaroui cut into inch lengths, and the tendons of the calfs 
feet, previously warmed in a little consomme, with the addition of half 
a glass of white wine. Stir the soup gently in the tureen to mix these 
ingredients together, and send to table. 

356. HARE SOUP A L'ANGLAISE. 

Skin and paunch a hare, and cut it up as follows : — first take off 
the legs close to the loins, and divide them into three pieces, slip the 
shoulders off and cut them into two parts, cut the back into six pieces, 
and divide the head in halves. Next place a stewpan on the stove- 
fire, containing four ounces of butter, a carrot, two onions, a head of 
celery cut into small slices, and fry these of a light color ; then add 
the pieces of hare, over which, when also fried brown, shake a good 
handful of flour, and moisten with half a bottle of Port wine, at the 
same time adding a garnished bouquet, three cloves, a blade of mace, 
and two quarts of blond of veal ; stir the whole on the fire until it 
boils, then take it off and set it by the side to boil gently for an hour 
and a quarter, taking care in the meantime to skim off the butter, 
&c, as it rises to the surface. Take out the pieces of hare when 
done, from the sauce, and place them on a dish; select the finest 
pieces of meat, remove the bones, and set these pieces aside in a 
soup-pot ; clear the remainder of the meat from the bones, and pound 
it thoroughly, with the vegetables, from the sauce ; when these are 
pounded, mix them again with the sauce, and pass the whole through 
a tammy into a puree, and pour it on to the pieces of hare reserved in 
the soup-pot. 

Observe, that this soup must not be thick, consequently it may be 
necessary after passing it through the tammy to add a little blond of 
veal to thin it. 

Just before sending it to table, make the soup hot, but be careful 
that it does not boil ; ascertain that its seasoning be palatable, and 
serve. 

357. HARE SOUP A LA ST. GEORGE. 

Get two good-sized leverets and fillet them. Place the fillets in a 
small sauta-pan with a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt ; cover them 
with a round of buttered paper, and put them in the larder till 
dinner-time. Reserve a sufficient quantity of the meat from the 
leveret's hind-quarters, in order to make some quenelles; cut the 
remainder into small pieces, and fry them exactly in the same manner 
as directed in the preceding soup ; shake into them a sufficient 
quantity of flour to thicken the sauce of the soup, moisten with a 
bottle of Claret, and two quarts of blond of veal ; add a garnished 



128 ENGLISH SOUPS. 

bouquet made with basil, marjoram, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, four 
cloves, mace, and four shalots. Let the sauce boil, skim it well, and 
when the hare is thoroughly done, pass the sauce through a tammy 
into a soup-pot ; put this on the fire to throw off any remaining rough- 
ness, and that it may be reduced if necessary ; and then pour it into the 
soup-tureen, which should contain three dozen small quenelles made 
with the meat reserved for that purpose, as before mentioned ; also the 
scollops of hare prepared by lightly frying the fillets in the sauta-pau, 
and which must be afterward scolloped. Ascertain that the seasoning 
be correct, and send to table. 

358. LEVERET SOUP A LA ROSSIE. 

Get a good-sized leveret, cut it into pieces, and fry these in a stew- 
pan with two ounces of butter; as soon as they are colored, moisten 
with half a bottle of Sherry, allow the wine to boil, then add two quarts ot 
consomme or blond of veal, garnish with carot, onion, and celery, mace, 
cloves, and peppercorns, a bouquet of bay-leaf, thyme, basil, marjoram, 
and winter savory ; let these herbs be used in small quantities, in order 
that they may give flavor, without predominating. When the soup has 
boiled three-quarters of an hour, let the pieces of hare be drained on a 
sieve, and at the same time pass the broth into a basin ; afterward 
place the pieces of hare on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed, put 
them into a soup-pot. 

Next, clarify the consomme in the usual manner, and strain it through 
a napkin on to the pieces of leveret ; and, just before sending to table, 
add to the soup three dozen very small quenelles of leveret, and some 
white celery cut into shreds and boiled in a small quantity of the 
soup. 

359. OX-CHEEK SOUP. 

Procure a fresh ox-cheek, and put it to braize in a small stockpot 
with a knuckle of veal and some roast-beef bones, fill the pot up from 
the boiling stockpot, or with water ; garnish with the same complement 
of stock vegetables used for ox-tail soup (No. 354), adding six cloves, 
a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. As soon as the ox-cheek is 
done, take the meat off the cheek-bone, and put it in press between 
two dishes. Strain off the broth, adding to it a ladleful of gravy to 
color it, and proceed to clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs. 
While the consomme is clarifying, trim the ox-cheek and cut it into 
neat scollops an inch square and half an inch thick ; put these into a 
small soup-pot and add to them some small carrots and turnips cut in 
fancy shapes and boiled in a little broth, a lump of sugar, and also a 
dozen and a half very small white button onions. Strain the clarified 
consomme thus prepared into the soup-pot, and having allowed the 
soup to boil a few minutes by the side of the stove-fire, just before 
serving, add two dozen blanched Brussels sprouts, and a pinch of 
minionette pepper, and send to table. 

360. deer's-head soup a la chasseur* 

Procure a young deer's head, perfectly fresh, scald it and cleanse 
it thoroughly; proceed then to prepare the soup in exactly the same 

* This will be found a very useful soup in those parts of the country where deer 
abound. 



PUREES OF POULTRY. 129 

manner as for mock-turtle ; just before sending to table, add two 
dozen small quenelles made with deer's flesh, together with some small 
scollops of deer simmered in a little fresh butter and fine herbs. 

Take care that the soup does not boil after the scollops are added 
to it. 

361. GROUSE SOUP A LA MONTAGNARDE. 

Roast off three brace of young grouse, take the whole of the meat 
from the bones, carefully cutting out the lower part of their backs, 
which being bitter, must be rejected. Set aside four of the fillets, cut 
them into scollops, to be put in the soup afterward. Put the carcasses 
and bones of the grouse into a stewpan with half a bottle of Sherry, a 
carrot, onion, celery, a few cloves, a couple of shalots, and a blade of 
mace ; set these to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes, after 
which add two quarts of good stock, and having allowed it to boil an 
hour and a half, strain it off into a basin. Pound the whole of the 
meat yielded by the grouse, excepting the four fillets before named, 
mixing with it a little rice boiled in broth ; moisten with the grouse 
essence, and pass it through the tammy into a puree, and put it into 
a small soup-pot. Just before dinner-time, warm the puree, taking 
the usual precaution to prevent it from curdling, pour it into the 
soup-tureen containing the scollops of the fillets of grouse, and three 
dozen very small quenelles of the same. 



PUREES OF POULTRY AND GAME, 

COMPRISING 

PurSe of Fowl d la Peine. Purie of Pheasants d la Dauphine. 

„ „ d la Printanilre. „ „ d I'Anglaiae. 

„ „ d la Prineesse. „ Partridges d la Beaufort. 

„ ,, d la Celestine. „ „ d la Balzac. 

„ Red-legged Partridges d la „ Hare d la Conti. 

Conti. „ Rabbits d la Maitre d'hStel.- 

„ Pheasants d la Royale. „ " d la Ghantilly. 

362. PUREE OF FOWL A LA REINE. 

Roast off two good-sized young fowls, clear all the meat from the 
bones, chop and pound it thoroughly with half a pound of boiled rice ; 
dilute it with three pints of chicken broth, made with the skins and 
carcasses of the two fowls used for the puree, and rub it through a 
tammy with the aid of two wooden spoons, into a large dish. Take 
the puree up into a soup-pot, and put it away in the larder till dinner- 
time ; then warm it, with the usual precaution to prevent its curdling ; 
mix with it a pint of boiling cream, and having ascertained that the 
seasoning be correct, send to table, 

363. PUREE OF FOWL A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Prepare the puree of fowls as for the preceding soup ; just before 
sending it to table, add the boiling cream, and then pour the purie 
into the soup-tureen containing a pint of asparagus-heads boiled green. 

Send a plate of fried crjutons to be handed round to the guests. 



130 PUREES OF GAME. 

364. PUREE OF FOWL A LA PRINCESSE. 

Prepare the puree of fowl in the usual manner, and having mixed 
the boiling cream in it, pour it into the tureen containing three dozen 
very small quenelles of fowl, and four ounces of Frankfort pearl-barley, 
well blanched and boiled for two hours in some white chicken broth. 
Ascertain that the seasoning be delicate, and send to table. 

365. PUREE OF FOWL A LA CELESTINE. 

Roast off two fowls ; as soon as they are cold, pound the meat 
thereof in a mortar, together with six ounces of bleached Jordan 
almonds, and eight yelks of eggs, beginning with the almonds, then 
adding the yelks of eggs, and lastly, the fowl. Dilute with the 
chicken broth made with the carcasses of the fowl ; rub the puree 
through the tammy, and put it into a soup-pot, to be kept in the cool 
till dinner-time ; when, after having warmed it, add a pint of boiling 
cream, and send to table. 

A plate of duchess' crusts should be sent to table with this soup, to 
be handed round. 

366. PUREE OF RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGES A LA CONTI. 

Roast off two brace of red-legged partridges ; take the meat frorn^ 
them, make a consomme with their carcasses, pound the meat tho- 
roughly, mixing therewith half a pound of barley boiled for the pur- 
pose ; dilute with the consomme, rub it through the tammy, and having 
made the puree sufficiently hot (taking care that it be not too thick), 
send to table with a plate of Conde croutons, to be handed round. 

367. PUREE OF PHEASANTS A LA ROYALE. 

Roast off a brace of pheasants, take out the fillets and white part 
of the legs; make a consomme with the remainder. Pound the fillets, 
&c, with a proportionate quantity of boiled rice, dilute with the con- 
somme, and rub the puree through the tammy ; finish with a small 
piece of game glaze or essence, and serve. 

The croutons to be sent in a plate as usual. 

368. PUREE OF PHEASANTS A LA DAUPHINE. 

Prepare a puree of pheasants as in the preceding case ; when 
about to send the soup to table, pour it into a tureen containing four 
dozen small potato quenelles, and serve. 

The potato quenelles should be prepared as follows : — Bake four 
large York potatoes, and rub the pulp through a wire-sieve; put this 
into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a pint of cream, pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg. Stir these on the fire until the mixture forms a 
compact paste ; then take the stewpan off the stove, and proceed to 
incorporate with the paste three yelks and one white of egg ; and then 
mould the small quenelles with teaspoons, and poach them as you 
would any others, in water or broth. 

369. PUREE OF PHEASANTS A L'ANGLAISE. 
Prepare a puree of pheasant in the usual manner, and having 
finished it as in the foregoing article, pour it into a tureen containing 
the fillets of one pheasant cut into scollops, and serve. 



PUREES OF GAME. 131 

370. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES A LA BEAUFORT. 

Prepare a puree of partridges in the manner described for making 
the puree of red-legged partridges ; warm and finish the puree in the 
same manner, and just before sending to table, pour into the tureen 
containing three dozen small quenelles of partridges, the tails of 
three dozen crayfish, and half a pound of cocks kernels (previ- 
ously simmered in a little white broth, with butter, lemon-juice, and 
salt), and serve. 

371. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES A LA BALZAC. 

Prepare a puree of partridges in the usual manner, and finish by 
incorporating with it two ounces of crayfish butter and a piece of game 
glaze ; then pour the hot puree into a tureen containing three dozen 
crayfish tails, and three dozen quenelles of partridges — in the prepara- 
tion of which two tablespoonsful of chopped truffles have been mixed, 
previously to moulding the quenelles ; and send to table. 

372. PUREE OF HARE A LA CONTI. 

Skin, paunch, and cut up a hare into pieces. Put two ounces of 
butter into a stewpan with two shalots, a blade of mace, a sprig of 
thyme, and half a bay-leaf. When the butter has been made hot on 
the stove-fire, put the pieces of hare into the stewpan, and having 
fried these of a brown color, moisten them with a bottle of Sau- 
terrie wine ; when the wine has boiled ten minutes, add three pints 
of good consomme; and then, after allowing the hare to boil gently 
on the side of the stove-fire for about an hour and a quarter, strain 
the pieces of hare into a sieve, reserving the broth in a basin ; and 
after having separated the meat from the bones, &c, pound it thor- 
oughly with a little boiled rice ; dilute it with the stock it was boiled 
in, and pass it through the tammy into a puree. Just before sending 
to table, make the puree sufficiently hot, and having tested its degree 
of seasoning, serve with a plate of fried croutons, to be handed round 
to the guests. 

373. PUREE OF RABBITS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Roast off three good-sized young rabbits ; and, while they are before 
the fire, season them with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and baste 
with half a pint of cream mixed with two ounces of fresh butter and 
two ounces of flour. This batter should not be used until the rabbits 
have been roasted ten minutes, and care should be taken to make it 
adhere to the rabbits while they continue roasting ; when they are 
done, clear off all the meat, and pound it in a mortar with four ounces 
of barley, previously boiled for the purpose ; dilute with the consomme 
made from the carcasses, rub the whole through the tammy, and put 
this puree into a small soup-pot. Just before dinner-time make it 
hot, and incorporate therewith half a pint of cream and a pat of fresh 
butter ; then pour it into a tureen containing three dozen small que- 
nelles of rabbit, in preparing which a little grated Parmesan cheese, 
minionette pepper, and a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley 
must be added. 

374. PUREE OF RABBITS A LA CHANTILLY. 

Prepare a puree of rabbits as for the preceding soup, finish it by 



132 NATIONAL SOUPS. 

adding a pint of cream and a piece of glaze ; then pour the hot soup 
into a tureen containing twelve small custards previously prepared 
for the purpose, in manner following: Pass eight yelks of eggs 
through a tammy into a stewpan, to these add a tablespoonful of 
spinach-green (No. 285), a little grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt, some essence of game, and half a pint of cream ; 
heat the whole well together, and pass this mixture through a tammy 
into a basin, and then pour it into twelve small dariole moulds (pre- 
viously buttered), place them in a stewpan containing hot water to 
the- depth of an inch, and set them to steam by the side of the stove- 
fire, taking care that the stewpan has the lid on, and some live 
embers of burning charcoal placed upon it. A quarter of an hour 
will suffice to steam these custards ; when done, turn them out of the 
moulds with care, and place them instantly in the soup-tureen as 
directed. 



NATIONAL SOUPS. 



COMPRISING 



Ravioli* d la Napolitaxne. Borsch, or Polish Soup. 

Rice d la Florentine. Ouka, or Russian do. 

Soup d la Piimontaise. Tschi, or Cabbage do., d la Russe. 

Do. d la Biarnaise. Olla Podrida, or Spanish national do. 

Bouillabaisse d la Provencal*. Turkish Pilaff, or Pilau. 

375. RAVIOLIS A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Prepare a consomme gravy soup, in the following manner : Butter 
the bottom of a small stockpot, and place in it some slices of raw 
ham, three pounds of gravy beef, a small knuckle of veal, and either 
one old hen or two partridges. To these add two heads of celery, 
the same number of leeks and carrots, sprigs of thyme and winter 
savory, tied into a fagot with some parsley, cloves, mace, and pepper- 
corns ; moisten with a large ladleful of broth, and put the gravy, thus 
marked, on a stove-fire to boil down to a glaze, taking the usual pre- 
cautionary measures to prevent it from burning. As soon as the glaze 
is sufficiently colored, fill the stockpot up with good broth ; when it 
boils, skim it, and set it down by the side of the stove-fire to boil geutly 
for three hours ; then strain off the consomme, clarify it with a couple 
of whites of eggs, and pass it through a napkin into a soup-pot, to be 
used as follows : 

RAVIOLIS. 

Mix half a pound of sifted flour with four yelks of eggs, a little 
salt, and half a pat of butter ; let these ingredients be placed on 
a paste slab, putting the yelks of eggs, &c, in the centre of the 
flour; then knead them into a firm, smooth, compact paste; and 
after allowing it to rest in a damp cloth for half an hour, spread 
it out with the rolling-pin until it becomes nearly as thiu as a sheet 
of paper. Place the paste, thus rolled out, lengthwise on the slab, 
then, with the paste-brush dipped in water, moisten its whole surface, 



NATIONAL SOUPS. 133 

and lay thereon, about two inches apart from each other, some small 
ronnd balls of raviolis farce of the size of a cob-nut, in rows. This 
farce is prepared as follows : — Put the white parts of a boiled or 
roasted fowl, pheasant, or partridge, into a mortar; pound the meat 
thoroughly, and add thereto about four ounces of fresh-made curd, 
two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two spoonsful of blanched 
spinach, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; moisten with four yelks of raw 
egcrs, and mix the whole well together into a smooth compact body, 
ready for use. 

Wrap the outer part of the paste, when the raviolis farce has been 
laid on it, over the outer row of balls, cover them as if for making 
puffs, finish them by fastening down the paste with the thumb, and 
then cut them out with a small round fluted cutter into half-moons ; 
and as they are cut out, place them on a large dish, there to be left 
for some time, in order to dry the surface, so that it may more re- 
semble Italian paste. Having repeated this operation until you 
have made five or six dozen raviolis, after they have been dried in 
the larder, proceed to blanch them ; this is done by throwing them 
into a large stewpan containing some boiling broth, and allowing 
them to continue boiling therein for a quarter of an hour ; then drain 
the raviolis on to a napkin. 

Next take the lining of a soup-tureen, butter it, place therein a 
layer of raviolis and a layer of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and so 
on alternately, until the silver tureen-lining be filled ; shake some 
grated cheese on the top, and moisten with two glasses of old Madeira, 
and a ladleful of the gravy made for the purpose, and then put the 
lining into the oven, or on a slow stove-fire, there to reduce the 
gravy to a gratinate. Brown the top over with the heated salaman- 
der, and send to table with the remainder of the clear consomme in 
the soup-tureen. 

This soup should be thus served : With a gravy -spoon help a part 
of the gratinated raviolis, in a soup-plate, and add to these a ladleful 
of the consomme'. 

376. EICE A LA FLORENTINE. 

Prepare a thin puree of rice, and moisten it with consomme of 
fowls ; finish by adding two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a 
leason of six yelks of eggs, half a pint of cream, a pat of butter, and 
a little minionette pepper ; then pour the soup thus prepared into the 
soup-tureen, and send to table with.two plates of very small croquettes 
of rice, which are to be handed round with the soup. 

The croquettes of rice here alluded to, are thus made: — 
Wash and blanch half a pound of Carolina rice, and boil it in a 
little broth with two. ounces of fresh butter, and a pinch of minionette 
pepper, and a little salt ; when done, add two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and four yelks of eggs ; work the whole on the 
stove-fire for five minutes, spread it on a plate, and when this paste 
is sufficiently cold, mould it into very small round balls. Just before 
dinner-time, dip these in some beaten egg, and roll them in flour ; 
then put them into a large-sized parsley frier, and immerse them in 
a quantity of hot clean lard ; fry them of a fine deep yellow color, 
and send to table in two hot plates, on napkins, to be handed round 
with the soup as before stated. 



134 NATIONAL SOUPS. 

377. SOUP A LA PIEMONTAISE. 

Prepare a brown puree of turnips (No. 294), in which mix a large 
gravy-spoonful of tomatas ; just before sending to table, incorporate 
with the soup a paste composed of four anchovies washed, filleted, 
and pounded, with a clove of garlic and a pat of butter, all passed 
through a fine hair-sieve ; and pour the soup into a tureen contain- 
ing four dozen very small quenelles of potatoes (Xo. 310), and a 
pliiche of chervil and tarragon (that is to say, the leaves of chervil 
and tarragon picked and parboiled green), and send to table with 
some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be hauded round with the 
soup. 

378. SOUP A LA BEAKSAISE. 

Let a quart of garbancas, or large yellow Spanish peas, be put in 
soak the overnight, place them in a small stockpot with a piece of 
raw ham, and having filled up with common broth, set the stockpot 
on the stove-fire to boil ; skim it well, and put it by the side to boil 
gently for four hours. Meanwhile, cut three large onions, one carrot, 
and two heads of celery, into small dice, put these into a stewpan 
with two ounces of fresh butter and two cloves of garlic ; fry them of 
a very light brown color, and after adding half a dozen fresh tomatas. 
mix the whole in with the garbancas. As soon as the garbancas 
are done, pound and rub them through the tammy, diluting with good 
consomme ; take the puree up into a small soup-pot, and clarify it in the 
usual manner, by allowing it to throw up its roughness while boiling 
gently by the side of the stove-fire : remember that this puree must be 
kept rather thin. During this process, cut a white-heart cabbage 
into quarters, removing the core, shred them as fine as possible, place 
them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter on a moderate stove-fire, 
and fry them as you would vegetables for Julienne soup. When they 
are considerably reduced in quantity, and become of a yellowish color, 
moisten them with a little broth ; keep them gently simmering until 
they are thoroughly done; add them to the puree, together with 
a pinch of minionette pepper, and about half a pint of whole gar- 
bancas reserved for this purpose, and from which take off the hulls 
previously to putting them into the soup. When the cabbage has 
boiled a few minutes in the puree, pour the soup into the tureen, and 
send to table with an accompanying plate of grated Parmesan cheese, 
to be handed round with the soup. 

379. BOUILLABAISSE OR PROVENCALE SOUP. 

Cut four large Portugal onions into slices, and fry them in a gill 
of Lucca oil ; when they begin to assume a light brown color, add 
thereto a sprig of thyme and two cloves of garlic, and shake in a 
good handful of flour; stir this on the stove-fire for a few minutes. 
moisten with half a bottle of Sauterne wine, and add three pints of 
good consomme ; stir this sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by 
the side to continue gently simmering for half an hour, and rub it 
through the tammy like any other puree ; then take it up and pour it 
into a small soup -pot Just before dinner-time, make the soup hot. 
and finish by incorporating with it a leason of six yelks of eggs, a little 
cayenne, the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; pour the soup into the tureen containing a plateful of 



NATIONAL SOUPS. 135 

scollops of any sort of fish (crimped cod or whiting is the best for the 
purpose) prepared as follows : cut two slices of crimped cod into 
small scollops, and put them into a deep sauta-pan with a little Lucca 
oil, minionette pepper, and a little salt, some chopped tarragon and 
chervil, and the juice of half a lemon ; fry these on the fire, put them 
into the soup-tureen, and when the soup is poured on them, throw 
in a small plateful of duchess' crusts fried in Lucca oil, and send to 
table. 

380. BORSCH, OR POLISH SOUP. 

Place in a good-sized stockpot a large knuckle of veal, an old hen, 
partially roasted and colored, a couple of marrow-bones, one pound 
of streaky lean bacon (trimmed and parboiled for the purpose), two 
carrots, two heads of celery, and two onions stuck with six cloves ; also 
a large fagot of parsley and green onions tied together with a little 
thyme, sweet basil, bay-leaf, and mace ; then add a teaspoonful of white 
peppercorns. Fill the stockpot up with prepared juice of beet-root,* 
set it upon the stove-fire to boil, and after being skimmed, let it boil 
gently by the side of the fire for an hour ; then add a fowl, a duck, a 
partridge (trussed for boiling), and six pork sausages. Observe, that 
the foregoing articles be not overdone, and be careful to take them up 
directly they are sufficiently braized ; then place them on a dish, and 
set them in the larder to get cold. 

While the stock is in preparation, peel two raw beet-roots, and shred 
them, also two onions, and an equal quantity of the white part of two 
heads of celery, as if for Julienne soup ; fry these vegetables in a little 
butter^ of a light color, moisten with a quart of broth from the boiling 
stock, and having gently boiled them down to the consistency of a demi- 
glaze, set them by in a soup-pot in the larder. Then chop four ounces 
of fillet of beef with the same quantity of beef suet, add a little pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, and two yelks of eggs ; pound this force-meat 
thoroughly, and use half of it to make thirty small round quenelles, by 
rolling them with a little flour on the table ; poach these in a little 
broth, and having drained them upon a napkin, add them to the shred 
vegetables put by in the soup-pot. With the remainder of the force- 
meat make the same number of very small oval quenelles, which, after 
being rolled with flour, set in a small sauta-pan to be fried of a light 
color, just before dinner-time. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in halves 
lengthwise ; take the yelks out and pound them with two raw yelks of 
eggs, a little grated horse-radish, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, 
and salt ; fill the eggs again with this farce, and having replaced the 
halves together, dip them in a beaten egg, and then roll them in bread- 
crumb, and set them aside to be fried at the same time as the small 
quenelles before mentioned. After five hours' boiling, strain off the 
stock-pot; when every particle of fat is removed, clarify it in the usual 
way, and then keep the consomme boiling, in order to reduce it to the 
quantity required for the soup. 

* The beet-root to be used in the borsch is thus made; — Procure two dozen fine beet- 
roots, scraped and washed, bruise them in a mortar, and place them in a large-sized 
earthen pan, into which throw in a pailful of water, and two pounds of bread-crumb. 
Cover the pan witli the lid, carefully cementing it down with a paste of flour and water, 
in order to exclude the airj and .*etthe pan in a moderately warm place, so as to acceler- 
ate the fermentation. Ten daft will suffice to produce the desired result; on uncover- 
ing the pan, it will be found to contain a bright red, acidulated liquor. 



136 NATIONAL SOUPS. 

In the meantime, trim the meat off the fowl, duck, and pheasant, 
into neat scollops; cut the bacon and sausages into small round balls, 
and carefully place all these ingredients in the silver lining of a soup- 
tureen, keeping the shreded vegetables andibraized beef quenelles on 
the top ; put them in the hot closet until dinner-time. Then grate or 
pound a couple of beet-roots, place this in a stewpan on the fire, and 
boil it up for a few minutes, extract the juice by strong pressure through 
the tammy-cloth, and use it to color the consomme, so as to give it the 
appearance of claret. Just before sending to table, pour the boiling 
consomme to the ingredients contained in the soup-tureen, adding a 
pinch of minionette pepper ; send up the fried eggs cut in halves, 
and also the fried quenelles, in a plate, to be handed round with the 
borsch. 

381. OUKA, OR RUSSIAN SOUP. 

Place in a stockpot a large knuckle of veal, about a pound of raw 
ham, and two old hens, roasted for the purpose ; fill up with common 
broth, set it to boil, and having skimmed it, garnish it with the usual 
vegetables, adding thereto either a handful of parsley-roots or a couple 
of parsnips. After five hours' boiling, strain off the consomme, and 
clarify it in the usual manner; strain it again through a napkin into a 
soup-pot, to be set aside until wanted to finish the soup. While the 
stock is boiling, take two pounds of crimped salmon, two large 
live perch, a Thames eel, and two fine mullets ; fillet and cut 
these into scollops, placing them neatly in a deep santa-pan ; sea- 
son with a pluche of picked parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves 
(the latter in a small proportion), some boiled shred parsley-roots, 
minionette pepper, grated nutmeg, salt, and the fourth part of a 
bottle of Chablis or Sauterne ; having first allowed these scollops to 
boil on the stove for five minutes, moisten with a quart of essence 
of fish (made with the carcasses and trimmings of the fish used for 
the scollops), let them boil quickly for ten minutes longer, and then 
pour the consomme' to them ; after they have boiled together two or three 
minutes, pour the soup into the tureen containing three dozen small 
quenelles of whiting, in which some lobster coral and puree of mush- 
rooms have been mixed. Ascertain that the seasoning is appropriate, 
and send to table. 

This soup is a species of souchet, and may be varied by using 
different kinds of fish. It is much esteemed by those who are fond of 
fish. 

381A. TSCHI, OR CABBAGE SOUP A LA RUSSE. 

First, cut four onions into small dice, and fry them with a little 
butter in a stewpan over a slow fire, and when they assume a light 
yellow-brown color, add to these a white-heart cabbage which has 
been previously shred fine for the purpose, and, after having con- 
tinued to fry this also with the onions for about ten minutes, two 
tablespoonsful of flour should be added; stir the whole well together, 
moistening with three pints of good consomme, season with a little 
nutmeg and minionette pepper, and when, after the soup has boiled 
gently by the side of the stove for about an hour, in order to clarify 
it, let it be well skimmed; and previously to sending the soup to 
table, add a plvche of tarragon leaves and some lemon-juice. Pre- 
viously to pouring the Tschi into the soup-tureen, place therein 



NATIONAL SOUPS. 137 

about three dozen small sausages made in manner following, viz. : — 
To four ounces of lean fillet of beef, add an equal quantity of beef suet ; 
first chop, and then pound these well together in a mortar, season with 
grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and some chopped parsley ; add 
three yelks of eggs, mix well together by pounding the whole ten 
minutes longer, after which proceed to roll the sausage meat into small 
round or oval shapes the size of a cob-nut ; and, after frying these of a 
light color in a little clarified butter use them as directed above. 

382. OLLA PODRIDA, OR SPANISH NATIONAL SOUP. 

Place some slices of raw ham at the bottom of the stockpot, add 
five pounds of gravy beef cut in slices, and a roasted old hen ; garnish 
with the usual vegetables, two cloves, and mace ; moisten with a quart 
of broth, set the stockpot on the fire, and let the broth be reduced to a 
glaze ; fill it up with water as soon as it boils, skim it, and then set 
the stock to boil gently by the side of the stove. When the consomme 
has boiled two hours, throw in a large fowl and two partridges trussed 
for boiling, six pork sausages, and two Spanish savaloys (which are to 
be had at all the first-rate Italian warehouses), watch the braizing of 
these, to prevent their being overdone ; take them out when they are 
sufficiently braized, place them upon a dish to get cool, then divide the 
fowl and partridges into small members, trimming them neatly, and 
cut the sausages and savaloys also into small round balls, and place 
all these in a soup-pot, together with three carrots and as many turnips 
cut into the form of rather large-sized olives, and some shred celery 
and leeks, previously boiled in consomme with a small lump of sugar ; 
to these must also be added some boiled yellow Spanish peas (gar- 
bancas) free from their hulls. After four hours' boiling, strain the 
stock off, clarify it, and strain it again through a napkin ; add it to the 
fore-named ingredients with a pinch of miuionette pepper; boil the 
whole for ten minutes, and send to table. 

383. TURKISH PILAFF, OR PILAU. 

Place a knuckle of veal on some slices of raw ham in a stockpot, 
also a roasted shoulder of lamb and a large fowl trussed for boiling ; 
fill up with common broth or water, and having skimmed the broth, 
garnish with the usual vegetables. As soon as the fowl and lamb are 
done, take them up, and when cold cut the meat off the shoulder of 
lamb into small cutletlike pieces, and the fowl into neatly-trimmed 
members. Place these in a small soup-pot with half a pound of 
Carolina rice, boiled in some of the consomme, after it has been clari- 
fied and seasoned with an infusion of rather less than a quarter of an 
ounce of hay saffron, and cayenne ; and then having reduced the con- 
somme to two-thirds of its original quantity, pour it upon the foregoing 
ingredients, adding six ounces of dried cherries or Sultana raisins; boil 
these together for a quarter of an hour, and send to table. 

This kind of soup is very nutritious, and, from the cayenne and 
saffron contained in it, is calculated to give tone to the stomach. 



138 



ITALIAN SOUPS, 



COMPRISING 

Macaroni Soup d la Royale. Semolina Soup d la Palermo. 

„ „ d la Medicos. „ ,, d la Venitiemie. 

„ „ d la St. Pierre. „ „ d la Piaane. 

384. MACARONI SOUP A LA ROYALE. 

Boil ten ounces of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water, 
with two ounces of fresh butter, a little rninionette pepper, and salt. 
When the macaroni has boiled half an hour, drain it off upon a sieve, 
cut it into half-inch lengths, and boil it in two quarts of good chicken 
or game consomme for ten minutes ; take it off the stove and mix with 
it a leason of six yelks of eggs, half a pint of cream, two ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a little rninionette pepper; set the leason 
in the soup by stirring it on the stove-fire for three minutes, and send 
to table. 

Vermicelli or any other Italian paste may be substituted for the 
macaroui. This soup is sometimes designated "a Vltalienne." 

385. MACARONI SOUP A LA MEDICIS. 

Boil ten ounces of Naples macaroni, and cut it into inch lengths ; 
at the same time trim the tails of thirty crayfish, and the same number 
of quenelles of fowl, colored with crayfish butter ; place these in the 
silver lining of a soup-tureen according to the following directions : — 

Butter the bottom of the lining and spread thereon a layer of maca- 
roni, then a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, after which place a layer 
of crayfish tails ; repeat the layer of grated cheese, and place on that 
a layer of small quenelles: and thus proceed until the several articles 
prepared for the purpose are disposed of. Then add a pint of strong 
consomme, and cover the top with grated cheese ; melt a small pat of 
fresh butter over the fire, and sprinkle it on the top of the whole 
preparation ; then set the tureen lining thus filled to gratitude in the 
oven, which will require about half an hour. Lastly, place the lining 
ou a dish to be served from the side-table, while the bright clear con- 
somme is to be sent up in another tureen. 

In helping the soup at table, first put a small ladleful of the prepara- 
tion of macaroni, &c, on a soup plate, and add to it a ladleful of the 
consomme - . 

386. MACARONI SOUP A LA ST. PIERRE. 

Cut some macaroni that has been boiled, into inch lengths, place 
them in a stewpan with four ounces of lobster-coral butter and a 
little cayenne, simmer it gently on the fire for ten minutes, and then 
place a fourth part in a silver soup lining; on this sprinkle some 
grated Parmesan cheese, then put a layer of blanched soft roses of 
mackerel, over which place some grated cheese, again cover this with 
some prepared scollops of salmon ; and thus repeat the foregoing 
instructions until the ingredients are all used up, finishing this part 



ITALIAN SOUPS. 139 

of the operation by sprinkling over the whole some grated cheese, 
and adding a pint of good consomme; lastly, place the lining in the 
oven to gratinate, which must be carefully attended to. Send the 
soup to table with another tureen of clear bright consomme, to be 
served to the guests in the same manner as described in the preceding 
article. 

387. SEMOLINA SOUP A LA PALERMO. 

Mix four ounces of wheaten flour with the same quantity of Turk- 
ish wheat flour, place these on the paste-board or slab, and having 
made a hollow in the centre, place in it four yelks of eggs, a little 
cream, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; proceed to work these into a 
firmly-kneaded paste. Spread this out very thin with the aid of a 
rolling-pin, and having cut it into bands an inch wide, shred these so 
as to resemble vermicelli. Strew these shreds on a large baking 
sheet covered with paper, and put them to dry for four hours in the 
hot closet. A quarter of an hour before dinner-time, throw the 
shreds thus prepared into two quarts of boiling game consomme ; 
skim this, and place the stepwan containing the soup by the side of 
the stove-tire, to continue gently boiling until the time for serving; 
then, after adding a pinch of minionette pepper, send to table with 
some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round with 
the soup. 

388. SEMOLINA SOUP A LA VENITIENNE. 

Throw six ounces of semolina into two quarts of boiling consomme 
of game ; after boiling gently by the side of the stove-fire for a 
quarter of an hour, add a glass of Madeira, two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, half a pint of cream mixed with four yelks of eggs, 
a little crystallized soluble cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Set this preparation on the stove-fire, taking care not to let it curdle, 
then pour the soup into a tureen containing the fillets of two dozen 
larks which have been simmered with fine herbs. Stir the soup 
gently into the tureen, in order to mix the scollops with the semolina. 
In Italy, the fillets of a small delicious bird, called Beccaficas, are 
used instead of larks. 

389. SEMOLINA SOUP A LA PISANE. 

Bone and braize two calf's feet, and having pressed them between 
two dishes, cut them out into round pieces the size of a shilling, with 
a tin cutter ; place these in a stewpan together with three dozen very 
small quenelles a la Xavier (No. 257) and a glass of Madeira ; allow 
them to simmer on the fire for five minutes, and add them to a similar 
quantity and description of soup as directed in the preceding article, 
but omitting the fillets of larks, and send to table. 



Note. — The foregoing soups may be prepared, witn equal success, 
by using any of the numerous sorts of Italian pastes, instead of keep- 
ing to those described for the purpose. The soups may also be in- 
finitely varied by changing tbeir garnishes. 



140 



PANADAS AND LIGHT SOUPS FOR INFANTS AND 

INVALIDS, 

COMPRISING 

Chicken Panada. Nutritious liquid custards of chicken. 
Pheasant or Partridge Panada. „ „ game. 

Chicken or game custards Ceylon moss gelatinous chicken broth. 
Venison Panada. 

390. CHICKEN PANADA. 

Roast off a young fowl, take all the white parts and pound them 
with the crumb of a French roll soaked in broth ; dilute these with 
a little chicken broth (made from the remains of the roasted fowl) to 
the consistency of a soft batter or creamy substance ; pass it through 
a tammy as in preparing any other puree. Previous to serving this 
panada, it should be moderately warmed, and put into custard cups. 
In the composition of every sort of dietetic preparation for the use 
of infants and invalids, it is strictly necessary to avoid the use of herbs, 
vegetables, and spices ; even salt should be used sparingly. 

391. PHEASANT OR PARTRIDGE PANADA. 

Pheasant or partridge panada is prepared in the same manner as 
described for making the chicken panada ; game being substituted for 
poultry. 

392. CHICKEN OR GAME CUSTARDS. 

Cut a young fowl into quarters, take the lungs away from the back- 
bone, wash the fowl, and then place it in a stewpan with a little pars- 
ley, chervil, half a head of celery, and a turnip. Fill the stewpan with 
three pints of cold water, place it on the fire, and as soon as it boils, 
skim it thoroughly, and set it by the side of the fire to remain boiling 
for an hour ; after which strain the broth into a basin through a nap- 
kin, and use it in the following manner : — 

According to the number of custard-cups required to be filled, place 
so many yelks of eggs in a basin ; to these add the same number of 
custard-cupsful of prepared chicken broth, and with a spoon or fork, 
beat these together, in order to mix them thoroughly ; then pass them, 
by pressure, through the tammy, fill the custard-cups, steam them in 
the usual manner, and send them up quickly. 

These custards should be eaten very soon after being made, as they 
become heavy when warmed a second time. 

393. VENISON PANADA. 

Take a pound (more or less) of the lean part of either a roasted 
haunch or neck of venison, mince it, and then pound it with the 
crumb of a French roll which has been soaked in good broth ; dilute 
with a little consomme', and pass the panada through a tammy as 
usual. Just before sending this panada up, warm it carefully, so as 
not to allow it to get too hot, as it would then be liable to become 
somewhat decomposed and rough, and rather indigestible for a deli- 
cate stomach. 



PANADAS AND LIGHT SOUPS. 141 

394. NUTPJTIOUS LIQUID CUSTARD OF CHICKEN". 

Prepare the chicken broth as directed for making chicken custards, 
take half a pint of this, and mix it thoroughly with two yelks of new- 
laid ecji's ; stir it over the stove-fire, or, if practicable, over the heat of 
steam, until the mixture becomes somewhat thickened, assuming a soft 
creamy appearance ; pour it into a broth basin or caudle-cup, and let 
it be instantly served. 

895. NUTRITIOUS LIQUID CUSTARD OF GAME. 

This sort of custard is prepared similarly to the foregoing, substi- 
tuting pheasant or partridge for poultry. 

896. CEYLON MOSS GELATINOUS CHICKEN BROTH. 

Cut a fowl into four parts, take out the lungs, and wash it thoroughly, 
place it in a stewpan with four ounces of prepared Ceylon moss, adding 
three pints of water and a little salt; having boiled the broth for three- 
quarters of an hour by the side of a stove-fire, pass it through a napkin, 
and serve it in a caudle-cup to the invalid. 



142 



DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 



TURBOT AND BRILL, 



COMPRISING 



Turbot, plain boiled. Turbot, d In Marichale. 

„ d la Pnrisihine. Fillets of Turbot, d I'Indiemie. 

„ broiled d la Proven vale. „ „ d la Ravigotte. 

„ d la Careme. „ „ d la Vertpri, or green. 

„ d la Vatel. „ „ Rabigotie. 

„ d la creme au gratin. „ „ d I'ltalienne. 

„ in Matelotte. Normande. „ „ <i la Cardinal. 

„ d la Bichamel. Brill, — John Dory. 

397. PLAIN BOILED TURBOT OR A L'ANGLAISE. 

Procure if possible u tnrbot conveyed by land-carriage, of moderate 
size: the larger fish are never delicate; choose it thick and plump, 
open it to ascertain that the back-bone is free from color, as when it 
has a reddish appearance, although perfectly fresh, it is sure to boil 
of a bad color. Wash the turbot, wipe it dry, and rub it over with 
the juice of a lemon and a little salt; put it into a fit-sized turbot- 
kettle, add a sufficient quantity of spring-water to cover the fish, then 
throw in a good handful of salt, and set the turbot on the stove to 
boil ; as soon as the water begins to simmer, skim it thoroughly, and 
lift the kettle from the fire down by the side, there to remain gently 
boiling for half an hour, more or less, according to the size of the 
fish. When the turbot is done, lift it out of the water with the 
drainer ; slip it carefully on to a dish prepared to receive it, and send 
it to table with two sauce-boats filled with lobster and Dutch sauces 
(Nos. 42 and 55). 

398. TURBOT A LA PARISIENNE. 

Choose a turbot weighing about 4 lbs., trim the fins off close, make 
an incision in the back from head to tail, and, inserting the knife on 
either side, detach the fish from the bone right up to the fins ; then 
cut the back bone through, close to the head and tail, and carefully 
separate the under part of the fish from the bone, so as not to run 
the knife through ; bone the turbot in this manner, wipe it with a 
clean cloth, season it inside with a little pepper and salt, and spread 
a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with a spoonful of 
chopped fine herbs, inside. Then butter a large baking-sheet, and 
place the turbot upon it, with the white side uppermost ; moisten 
with a bottle of French white wine, some essence of mushrooms, and 
oyster liquor; season with a little pepper and salt, place a buttered 
paper over the whole, and set the fish to boil on the stove; next put 



TURBOT AND BRILL. 143 

it in the oven to simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, 
taking care to baste the turbot with its liquor every five minutes, so 
that it may thus be made to absorb the greater portion while stewing. 
When the turbot is done, drain it from its liquor on to a large earthen 
dish, and put it to cool in the larder, reserving the liquor in which 
it has been stewed to be reduced and mixed with a sufficient quantity 
of Parisian sauce (No. 40;, to be used for garnishing the turbot 
when dished up. When the turbot is cold, place it on a buttered 
baking-sheet, and spread it over with a thin layer of reduced Alle- 
inande sauce, over which shake some very finely-sifted bread-crumbs, 
fried of a light color ; moisten the fish with a little consomme and 
wine, and put it in the oven about twenty minutes before sending 
it to table, that it may get thoroughly warm through ; when about 
to dish it up, slide it gently off the baking-sheet on to a dish, and 
sauce it round with part of the Parisian sauce prepared for the pur- 
pose ; garnish it round with groups of crayfish tails, muscles, oysters, 
button-mushrooms, and small round truffles, tossed in a little glaze 
to give them a bright appearance. Send up the remainder of the 
sauce in a boat. 

399. BOILED TURBOT A LA PROVENCALS. 

Procure a small plump turbot, make an incision in the back, and, 
with a strong knife, cut away an inch of the spine, trim the fins close, 
score it rather deep on the back, and then place it on an earthen 
dish to steep for four hours in a marinade made of the following 
ingredients : sliced carrot, onions, sprigs of parsley, bay-leaf and 
thyme, three cloves of garlic, pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, 
and a gill of salad-oil. Let the turbot be frequently rubbed and 
turned in this marinade, that it may be thoroughly impregnated with 
its flavor. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner, remove 
every particle of vegetable from the turbot, place it, with the white 
side under, on a gridiron (previously rubbed with chalk of whiting), 
and set it to broil on a clear fire, of moderate heat : twenty minutes 
will suffice to broil it on one side ; it must then be carefully removed 
on to a deep baking-sheet, upon its back, first placing the whole of 
the marinade in the baking-sheet or dish ; moisten with half a bottle 
of light white wine, and then put the turbot in the oven to bake ; 
observing that it must be basted every five minutes with its liquor. 
When the turbot is done, lift it carefully on to its dish, put the whole 
of the marinade in which it has been baked into a stewpan with the 
remaining half bottle of wine ; boil the whole together for five minutes, 
strain it with pressure through a tammy into a stewpan, and reduce 
it with some Allemande sauce : add a pint of anchovy butter, some 
chopped and blanched parsley, a spoonful of capers, and a little 
cayenne ; garnish the turbot round with this sauce, adding groups of 
muscles fried in batter, and some lobster cut into neat scollops, and 
tossed in lobster-coral to give them a scarlet hue. Send some of the 
sauce to table in a boat. 

400. TURBOT A LA CAREME. 

Prepare a turbot according to the foregoing directions, omitting 
the garlic ; when it is done, reduce the liquor, and incorporate it 
it in a sufficient quantity of Dutch sauce, having Supreme sauce for 



144 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL, 

its foundation; add some lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-jaice ; 
work the sauce well together over the fire, and pour it round the 
turbot ; glaze the fish lightly, garnish it with groups of fine large cray- 
fish and quenelles of whiting colored with some green Bavigotte (No. 
185). Serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 

400a. turbot a la vatel. 

Prepare and dress a turbot according to the directions given for 
turbot a la Parisienne (No. 398) ; when done, drain and place it on 
a dish, reduce the liquor in which it has been baked, and incorporate 
it with some Supreme sauce, finished with green Bavigotte butter (No. 
185) ; add two dozen oysters, some button mushrooms, and thirty 
crayfish tails, lemon-juice, and cayenne. Cover the turbot with this 
sauce, and garnish it round with fried smelts, trussed with their tails 
in their mouths, (and previously boned and stuffed), with an inner 
row of small fillets of soles, which have been contises, one-half with 
truffles, and the other with thin scollops of the red part of the tail of a 
lobster turned round, and simmered in "a little butter in a sauta-pan. 
Serve as usual some of the sauce in a boat. 

401. TURBOT A LA CREME AU GRATIN. 
Boil a turbot, drain it on a dish, and while it cools, prepare some 
cream Bechamel sauce (No. 5) ; reduce it, and add the yelks of four 
eggs, four ounces of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, a little minionette 
pepper, grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice. With a spoon cut the turbot 
into flakes, and put them in the sauce, taking care to waste none of 
the delicate meaty part of the fins, the cheeks, and the glutinous mem- 
branes of the fish. Stir the whole lightly together, and pile it neatly 
in the shape of a dome on the dish ; cover it thoroughly and smoothly 
with some finely-sifted bread-crumbs fried and mixed with a fourth 
part of grated Parmesan cheese ; garnish round with fried croquettes 
of potatoes ; and twenty minutes before sending to table, put the 
turbot thus prepared into the oven to gratinaie ; pass the redhot 
salamander over it to melt the cheese, and pour round the inner circle 
of the croquettes some Bechamel sauce made with good rich cream. 
Send up some of the sauce in a boat. 

401A. TURBOT A LA CREME AU GRATIN, ANOTHER WAY. 

This, as well as the foregoing, may be prepared from the remnants 
of a previously-dressed fish, as follows: 

Place the flakes of turbot in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity 
of cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6), pile it up in the centre of the dish, 
shake some grated Parmesan cheese on the surface, pour some double 
cream over this, and having placed the dish over a moderate stove- 
fire in order to gratinaie the fish slightly, at the same time hold a red- 
hot salamander over it to give the surface a very light brown color ; 
which, when satisfactorily terminated, some potato croquettes, or pas- 
try fieurons, should be neatly placed round the edge of the dish and 
immediately served. 

402. TURBOT AS MATELOTTE NORMANDE. 

Prepare a small plump turbot in every respect according to the 
directions given for dressing a turbot d la Parisienne (No. 398) ; 



TURBOT AND BRILL. 145 

when done, drain and place it on a dish ; reduce the liquor, add to it 
some Allemande sauce, in which mix two pats of butter, some chopped 
and blanched parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne ; work 
the sauce well together on the fire, and then add two dozen button- 
mushrooms, the same quantity of blanched oysters or muscles, and an 
equal proportion of very small quenelles of whiting- ; cover the turbot 
with the sauce, and garnish it round with some trimmed large crayfish 
and glazed croutons of fried bread. 

403. TURBOT A LA BECHAMEL. 

Prepare some good rich cream Bechamel sauce (Xo. 6), put the 
Hakes of some boiled turbot in it, toss them lightly together on the (ire, 
serve the turbot piled up on the dish in the form of a dome, and garnish 
it round with potato croquettes, jleurons of puff paste, or croutons of 
bread. 

This method of dressing turbot, as well as turbot a la creme au 
gratia, is generally had recourse to for the purpose of turning the 
previous day's fish to a good account; nevertheless the sauces, in both 
cases, really deserve that the turbot should be boiled for the express 
purpose. 

Turbot dressed as above may also be served in a vol-au-vent. 

404. TURBOT A LA MARECHALE. 

Prepare a turbot as for Matelotte Norma nde (Xo. 402), drain it, and 
set it on a dish to cool ; then spread it over on both sides with some 
reduced Allemande sauce ; shake some fine bread-crumbs over this, and 
after dipping it in some eggs seasoned with a little salt, and whipped 
up in a dish for the purpose, bread-crumb it over again thoroughly. 
About twenty minutes before dinner, place the turbot on a wire receiver, 
and fry it in a convenient-sized pan, containing some clean hog's lard, 
heated to a proper degree. As soon as the coating on the turbot is 
colored of a very light brown color, take the fish out of the fat on to a 
cloth, press it lightly with a clean napkin, in order to absorb any 
grease there may be on it, and placing it on a baking-sheet, keep it in 
the hot closet till required to be dished up, put the turbot then on a 
dish, and pour round the following sauce : — 

Reduce the liquor in which the turbot has been baked, and add to 
it some Allemande sauce, and mix in a pat of anchovy butter, some 
green Bavigotte, lemon-juice, and cayenne. Next, garnish round with 
quenelles of whiting shaped with two dessert-spoons, one-half of which 
must be colored with lobster-coral, and the other with some black 
truffles chopped very fine, and mixed in the quenelle force-meat pre- 
viously to their being shaped. Send to table some of the sauce as 
usual in a boat. 

405. FILLETS OF TURBOT A L'iNDIENNE. 

Cut a small turbot into neatly-trimmed fillets or scollops, set them 
carefully in a deep sauta-pan with a little fresh butter, and two 
spoonsful of Cook's excellent fish curry paste ; put the lid on tiie 
sauta-pan, and place it on a slow fire, or in the oven, to simmer gently 
for twenty minutes; then take it out, and add thereto some Veloute 
9 



146 DRESSED FISH IX GENERAL. 

sauce (No. 2), and set the whole to boil together a few minutes on the 
stove ; then dish up the fillets, one overlaying the other — in a circle ; 
pass the sauce through a tammy, make it hot, and mix in a pat of 
butter ; mask the fillets with the sauce, and serve. 

406. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Prepare the fillets of turbot as directed in No. 405, place them in 
a sauta-pan with some fresh butter, seasou with pepper and salt, and 
lemon-juice ; ten minutes before dinner set them on a moderate fire, and 
when sufficiently simmered on one side, turn them carefully on the other, 
so as not to break them ; when done, drain the fillets on a napkin, and 
dish them up, overlaying each other — so as to form a close circle ; 
sauce them with some white Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to 
table. 

407. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LA VERTRE. 

Prepare the fillets as for the previous entree, and dish them up in a 
similar manner ; fill the centre with thirty crayfish tails ; pour some 
sauce d la Ravigotte (No. 21), over the fillets, and serve. 

408. FILLETS OF TURBOT A L'lTALIENNE. 

Prepare, -dress, and fish up the fillets of turbot as in the previous 
case, and sauce the entree with some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), in 
which incorporate a pat of anchovy butter and a teaspoonful of chopped 
capers. 

•409. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LA CARDINAL. 

Cut, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as directed in former 
cases ; sauce them with some Cardinal sauce (No. 48), and garnish 
the centre of the entree with prawns or crayfish tails, small quenelle* 
of whiting or lobster, and a few small button-mushrooms. 

Fillets of turbot may be dressed in a variety of ways, according to 
the sauce or garnish used, from which accordingly the fillets derive their 
denomination : as, for instance, d la Matt re d' Hotel, a la sauce Barnard, 
or Lobster sauce, d la sauce aux Huitres, or Oyster sauce, &c, &c, &c. 

410. BRILL. 

This species of fish, bearing a great resemblance to turbot, may be 
dressed in every variety of form in which turbot is capable of b insr 
sent to table; it may also be served plain, boiled with either Lobster. 
Shrimp, Crayfish, Anchovy, Caper, Dutch, Oyster, Muscle, or Ravigotte 
sauce. 

411. JOHN DORY. 

This kind of fish, although a great favorite with many, is very seldom 
sent to table in any other shape than as a plain boiled fish, either with 
Lobster or Dutch sauce; it may, however, be broiled with Champagne 
sauce, for which see turbot dressed in that manner (No. 398). 



147 



SALMON, 



COMPRISING 

Salmon d la Chambord. Salmon d 1 1 Marlchale. 

„ d la Regence. „ " & V Anglaise. 

„ d la Genoise. „ d I'Ecoasaise. 

„ d la Cardinal. Slices of Salmon d la Tartare. 

„ d la Victoria. Matelotte of Salmon. 

„ „ d la VSnitihine. 

412. SALMON A LA CHAMBORD. 

Take a whole salmon, and when properly cleansed, truss it in the 
shape of the letter S, which is effected in the following manner : — 
Thread a trussing needle with some twine, pass this through the eyes 
of the fish, and fasten the jowl by tying the string under the jaw ; then 
pass the needle through the centre part of the body of the salmon, 
draw the string tight, and fasten it round the extremity of the tail ; the 
fish will then assume the desired form. 

Boil the salmon in salt and water; when done, drain it on a dish, 
and immediately take off the whole of the skin, and put the fish to 
cool in the larder. In the meantime, prepare some quenelle force- 
meat of whitings, part of which should be colored with some 
pounded lobster coral, and as soon as the salmon is cold, spread a 
layer of this over the whole surface of the fish, taking care to smooth 
it with the blade of a large knife dipped in hot water; this part of 
the process being completed, ornament the salmon by laying some 
fillets of soles which have buen contises with truffles in a slanting 
position across the back, fastening the ends under the belly of the 
salmon by means of the force-meat ; mark out the head and eyes of 
the fish with fillets of black truffles. Then place the salmon on a 
buttered drainer of a fish-kettle, and cover the fish with thin layers 
of fat bacon; moisten with a bottle of dry Champagne, garnish with 
a fagot of parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, sliced carrot, and onion; 
place a buttered paper over the whole, and put the lid on. Next, 
make it boil on the stove-fire, and then put it in the oven or on a 
slow fire to simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; drain the 
salmon and place it on a dish, and put it in the hot closet till wanted 
for table. 

Meanwhile, strain the liquor in which the salmon has been braized, 
reduce it to a glaze, add some finished Espagnole or brown sauce, 
essence of mushrooms, a little grated nutmeg, a pat of anchovy 
butter, and lemon-juice; and pass the sauce through a tammy into a 
bain-marie. 

Just before sending to table, remove the layers of bacon, and arrange 
groups of quenelles of whiting, mushrooms, truffles, large crayfish, and 
soft roes of mackerel, round the salmon, sauce the fish round in the 
inner circle with the hot sauce, and serve. Let there be some of the 
sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, and small quenelles of whiting in it, 
sent to table in a boat. 



148 



DRESSED FISH IX GENERAL. 




413. SALMON A LA REGENCE. 

Boil a whole salmon, remove the skin, and mask it over with strong 
glaze, mixed with some pounded lobster coral ; place the salmon on an 
oval crbustade of fried bread, about three inches high, on the dish ; 
pour round it some Regent's sauce, finished with some anchovy butter 
and lemon-juice ; and garnish it with alternate groups of quenelles of 
salmon (mixed with some finely-chopped truffles), some large crayfish, 
button-mushrooms, and small fillets of soles decorated with green 
gherkins, rolled in a spiral shape, and simmered in a little butter and 
lemon-juice. Form a decoration on the back and head of the fish, 
with some ornamented fillets of soles ; send up some of the sauce in a 
boat. 

414. SALMON A LA GENOISE. 

Boil a salmon, skin it, and place it on a dish ; mask it with Genoise 
sauce (No. 30), and garnish it round with lobster quenelles, button- 
nnishrooms, some glazed tails of very small lobsters, quenelles of 
whiting, half of which must be colored with extract of spinach or 
Bacigotte herbs, and the remainder with chopped truffles. All these 
garnishes are appropriate in ornamenting this dish, but it is desirable 
not to use too many sorts of garnishes in the preparation of one dish, 
so as not to produce an unseemly species of medley. Send up some 
Genoise sauce in a boat. 

415. SALMON A LA CARDINAL. 

Boil and skin a salmon that has been previously trussed, as 
directed in the first article of this chapter; cover it with a thin 
smooth coating of lobster quenelles; ornament it with a representa- 
tion of the scales of the fish, by placing alternate rows of half- 
moons of truffles on its surface, marking out the eyes and gills, also 
with fillets of truffles. Cover the salmon with very thin layers of fat 
bacon, moisten with half a bottle of white wine, aud a ladleful of 
good broth ; cover with a buttered paper, place the lid on the fish- 



SALMON. 149 

kettle containing the salmon, and set it to simmer on a moderate fire 
for three-quarters of an hour. Then drain the salmon, place it in a 
dish, on a cr';,ustade, and keep it in the hot closet till wanted. Mean- 
while, reduce the liquor in which the salmon has been braized with the 
remaining half-bottle of wine, and mix with it some Cardinal sance 
(No. 48) ; remove the layers of bacon, glaze the fish lightly and sauce 
it. Garnish it round with groups of truffles, mushrooms, crayfish tails, 
and quenelles of lobster. 

As usual, send up some of the sauce in a boat. 

416. SALMON A LA VICTOKIA. 

Braize a salmon in a mirepoix (No. 237) made with claret ; when 
the fish is done, skin it, and place it on a low cri,ustade, on a dish. 
Then, after divesting the mirepoix in which the fish has been done, of 
all grease, put one-third of it into a stewpan, boil it down to a demi- 
glaze, and work it in with some brown sauce ; add a pat of anchovy 
butter, and a good piece of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice ; 
mix the whole well together, and pour the sauce over the salmon. 
Garnish it round with groups of crayfish tails, fried fillets of smelts, and 
small quenelles of whiting. 

Send some of the sauce up to table in a boat, and put some thin 
scollops of lobster in it. 

417. SALMON A LA MAEECHALE. 

Truss a salmon in the shape of the letter S, boil it in salt and water, 
skin and cover it with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and set 
it to cool in the larder ; then shake some very fine bread-crumbs over 
it, and after fixing them on the sauce by gentle pressure with the blade 
of a knife, egg the salmon over with a paste-brush dipped in three 
whole eggs beaten up with a little nutmeg, pepper, ajid salt ; again 
shake some bread-crumbs over it, smoothing them on the salmon with 
the blade of a knife ; place the fish on a deep baking-dish, previously 
buttered for the purpose, moisten with a little white wine and con- 
somme, or some mirepoix. About three-quarters of an hour before 
dinner-time, put the salmon in the oven, and bake it of a deep yellow 
or very light brown color ; then place the salmon carefully on a dish, 
sauce it round with Crayfish or Supreme Dutch sauce, in which has 
been added an infusion of horse-radish, and garnish round with a 
border of quenelles of gurnets, and fried smelts trussed as whitings are 
for frying. 

418. SALMON A L'ANGLAISE. 

Boil the salmon, either whole or in slices, in salt and water ; when 
done, dish it up on a silver drainer, without a napkin. Plain boiled 
fish should never be sent to table on napkins, nor garnished round with 
cold wet parsley, neither is it advisable to garnish with fried small fish, 
the latter thereby generally becoming soddened and spoilt; the mixed 
vapor arising from both kinds of fish, when thus covered up, is detri- 
mental to the flavor of each. 

Dish up the salmon, and send it to table with either of the following 
sauces : Lobster, Shrimp, Crayfish, Dutch, Parsley and butter, or 
Muscle sauce. 



150 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

419. SALMON A L'ECOSSAISE. 

To dress salmon or trout in perfection in this style, it is quite neces 
sary that the fish be dressed a short time after being caught: sportsmen 
well know that it is only while this kind of fish is yet almost alive, that 
it retains that white creamy substance which appears between the 
flakes of the boiled fish, and which makes it so truly delicious : this is 
little known to the London epicure. If it be practicable to procure 
what is termed a live salmon, take out the gills, draw it, wash the fish, 
and crimp it on either side, by making deep incisions with a sharp 
knife, and then throw it into a large vessel, containing clean, cold, 
spring water, fresh from the pump — to remain there about two hours. 
]n crimping any sort offish, the colder the water is the better; the 
coldness of the water, petrifying the fish to a certain degree, gives it 
the firmness so much desired. As soon as the salmon or trout is 
crimped, put it into the fish-kettle containing boiling water in sufficient 
quantity to cover the fish, at the same time throwing in a good handful 
of salt ; let the fish boil on the side of the fire, remembering that 
crimped fish require considerably less time in boiling than when plain. 
As soon as the fish is done, take it out of the water immediately : 
leaving fish of any kind in the water after it is done, detracts from its 
flavor and firmness. When the salmon is dished up, send it to table 
with Lobster sauce, Parsley and butter, or the following sauce : — Put 
half a pound of fresh-churned butter into a clean stewpan, add a 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, a 
pinch of minionette pepper, some salt and juice of lemon ; set the 
stewpan in a bath of hot water, and keep stirring the butter quickly as 
it melts, with a wooden spoon ; when the whole of the butter is melted, 
work the sauce well together, and seud to table. With crimped salmon 
or trout, this kind of melted butter will be found to surpass all other 

sauces. 

« 

420. SLICES OF SALMON A LA TARTARE. 

Steep some slices of salmon in a dish with a little salad-oil, pepper 
and salt, and a few sprigs of parsley ; about half an hour before dinner, 
place the slices ol salmon on a clear gridiron rubbed over with whiting, 
and broil them on a clear fire ; when done on one side, turn them on 
the other : both sides should be of a fine light brown ; dish them up, 
and send to table with either some Tartare, Cambridge, or Remoulade 
sauce iu a boat (Nos. 94, 95, 96). 

421. MATELOTTE OF SALMON. 

Boil and take the skin off one or more slices of salmon, mask them 
with some glaze mixed with pounded lobster-coral ; place them on a 
dish and garnish with a rich Matelotte ragout (No. 193). 

422. SLICES OF SALMON A LA VENITIENNE. 

Boil, trim, and glaze the slices of salmon, as in the foregoing case, 
and sauce them round with a sauce a la Vcnitienne (No. 26). Garnish 
with a border of croquettes of fillets of soles. 



151 



T R U T, 

COMPRISING 

Trout d V ItaUenne. Truut <i VAvrore. 

„ d la Gatscoune. „ d In J'en'yitnix. 

,, d la Cfievali&re. ,, in paper cases, with fine herbs. 

,, d la Vertpri. ,, a hi I'oyale. 

„ au giatin. ,. broiled, with Dutch sauce. 

423. TROUT A L1TALIEXXE. 

Boil the trout in salt and water, divest it of the shin, glace and 
place it on a dish; then mask it with some Italian sauce in which has 
been mixed a pat of anchovy butter, a very little nutmeg, and lemon- 
juice. Garnish with crayfish and quenelles of whiting. 

424. TROUT A LA GASCOXXE. 

Boil and dish up the trout as directed in the foregoing instance, 
and pour round it some of the sauce denominated d la Gasconne 
(Xo. 08). Garnish with fillets of soles prepared as paujoictles (for 
which see No. 1131), and between each paupirlle place a group of 
crayfish tails that have been tossed in a little glaze, and some pounded 
lobster-coral. 

425. TROUT A LA CHEVALIERE. 

Boil, skin, and trim one or more trout, and cover them all over 
with some UUxellea or Papillotte sauce : when the sauce, by getting 
cold, has become set on the trout, roll them in \^y\ line bread- 
crumbs, and afterward egg them over and roll them again in the 
bread-crumbs, in which Parmesan cheese has been mixed in the pro- 
portion of one-third ; place the trout on a buttered baking-sheet, and 
about half an hour before dinner, first sprinkle them over with a 
little melted fresh butter, and then put them in the oven to be baked 
of a line light brown color. Dish them up and sauce round with 
the following ragout :■ — Reduce half a bottle of dry Champagne or 
Sauterne, with some essence of mushrooms, down to one-fourth part, 
then add a ladleful of Allemande sauce, incorporate with it a pat of 
anchovy butter, a little lobster-coral, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon- 
juice; sauce the trout round, and garnish with a border of small 
fillets of soles that have been contiscts, one half with truffles, and the 
remainder with tongue, and then turned round in the shape of half- 
moons, and simmered in a little butter, salt, and lemon-juice. In 
the inner circle, place small groups of prawns' tails tossed in lobster- 
coral and glaze, soft roes of mackerel tossed in a spoonful of sauce, 
colored with some green Ravigotte, and between the trout a row of 
large crayfish trimmed and glazed. Send up some of the sauce in 
a boat. 

426. TROUT AU GRATIX. 

Parboil the trout sufficiently to remove the skin, ami, when 
trimmed, place them on a buttered sauta-pan ; season with pepper 
and salt, sprinkle over them a good spoonful of chopped parsley, 
three times that quantity of chopped mushrooms, and two chopped 
shalots ; add a small ladleful of finished brown sauce, and two or 



152 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. » 

three glasses of Sherry. Half an hour more or less before sending to 
table, according to the size of the fish, put the trout thus prepared 
into the oven to bake, taking care to baste it every five minutes ; when 
done, put the trout out on a dish, reduce the sauce, if necessary, incor- 
porate iu it a pat of anchovy butter, add the juice of half a lemon, and 
pour the sauce over the trout; then shake some baked bread-crumbs 
bruised fine, over the whole, replace the fish in the oven for five 
minutes, and then send them to table after placing round them a 
border of lobster croquelles. 

427. TROUT l'aurore. 

Boil and trim one or more trout, mask them over with some 
reduced Ailemande sa/uce, put them on a silver dish, and then place a 
wire sieve over the trout ; rub the yelks of six or more eggs boiled 
hard through the sieve with a wooden spoon, on the fish, taking care 
that the curling shreds which fall through the sieve cover the surface 
of the trout equally. About half an hour before dinner, put the trout 
in the oven to get colored of a fine amber hue; pour round them some 
Aurora sauce (No. 41), and garnish them with a border of muscles 
fried iu batter. 

428. TROUT IN CASES, WITH FINE HERBS. 

Procure as many small trout as may suffice for a dish, clean, par- 
boil, trim, and place them each in a separate paper case previously 
oiled, and then baked for five minutes, for the purpose of hardening 
the paper to enable it to contain the sauce; add to each trout a 
moderate quantity of fine herbs' sauce (No. 14) ; put them in the oven 
twenty minutes before dinner-time to bake, and when done, dish them 
up, and send to table with some of the sauce in a boat. 

429. TROUT A LA ROYALE. 

Clean and draw a fine trout, stuff it with some quenelle force- 
meat of whitings, stew it with a bottle of Chablis wine, a few mush- 
rooms, parsley, green onions, thyme, and a bay-leaf, pepper-corns, 
and a blade of mace : when done, remove the skin, glaze, and put it 
on its dish in the hot closet till recpiired for dishing up. Then 
strain the liquor in which the trout has been stewed, reduce it to 
half glaze, add to it some Supreme sauce, work in a pat of anchovy 
butter, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon-juice, and then pour the 
sauce inro a stewpan containing some small quenelles of whiting, 
button-mushrooms, and prawns' tails. Allow the whole to boil to- 
gether for a few minutes, sauce the trout, and garnish them round 
with a border of crovstades of quenelle of whiting, poached, bread- 
crumbed, and fried ; the interior should be removed and filled with 
soft roes of mackerel tossed in a little of the sauce 

430. BROILED TROUT, WITH DUTCH SAUCE. 

Split a trout at the back, oil it over, season with pepper and salt ; 
just before dinner-time, broil it, and send it to table with some Dutch 
sauce in a boat separately. 

In addition to the different methods given here for dressing trout, 
this kind of fish may be prepared in every variety of form and style in 
which salmon is sent to table. 



153 



STURGEON", 

COMPRISING 

Sturgeon d la Beaufort. Sturgeon d la Bourgnignotte. 
„ d la Cardinal. „ d I'Ltdiinne. v 

„ d la Ginoise. „ ati gratin with fine herbs. 

„ d la Danphine. „ d la Ruxse. 

„ d la Perigord. „ d I'Anglaise. 

431. STURGEON A LA BEAUFORT. 

Choose a small sturgeou, draw, skin, and truss it in the shape ot 
the leter S ; braize it in a mirepoix moistened with sherry, or with 
common broth, and a little brandy. When the fish is done, drain it 
raid put it in the larder to cool ; then mask it all over with a coating 
of quenelle force-meat of whitings ; observing that the form of the 
head should be restored by covering that part of the sturgeon with 
some of the force-meat mixed with some lobster-coral. Form the 
eyes, mouth, and gills, with some black truffles cut into shapes for 
the purpose. Place some fillets of soles previously contises with 
truffles, crosswise along the back of the sturgeon, allowing the space 
of an inch to intervene between each fillet of sole, which spaces are 
to be filled up by the insertion of crayfish tails, trimmed and secured 
by being stuck into the force-meat in close rows ; then cover the fish 
with very thin layers of fat bacon, place it on a drainer, and put it ill 
the braizer with a little of the mirepoix in which it has been braized. 
About an hour before dinner-time, put it in the oven or on a slow 
fire, with live embers upon the lid, and after the fish has simmered 
gently, without boiling, during the time allotted, take it out of the 
braize upon the drainer, and after divestiug it of the layers of bacon, 
slide it off the drainer on to its dish ; sauce it round with a rich 
Matelotte sauce made with Sauterne wine, add also some of the liquor 
in which the sturgeon has been braized ; garnish round with alternate 
groups of the soft roes of mackerel (cut in halves, blanched, and fried 
in batter) and some dessert-spoon quenelles of lobster. 

432. STURGEON A LA CARDINAL. 

Procure a prime cut of sturgeon weighing about 12 lbs.; remove 
its skin in the following manner : — Place the piece of sturgeon on 
the kitchen table, lengthwise before you, so as to have a command 
on either side ; then take a long thin-bladed knife, insert its point 
immediately between the flesh and skin, run the knife right up, 
keeping close to the back fin, and minding that the edge of the knife 
be kept to the left; press, with the palm of the left hand, on the skin 
of the fish, drawing the knife to and fro, so as to sever the skin from 
the flesh ; and after effecting this on one side, repeat it on the other. 
Replace the skin over the sturgeon, and fasten it on with a string, in 
order to preserve the color of the fish ; at the same time taking care 
to give shape and appearance to the sturgeon. Then put it into a 
fish-kettle or braizing-pan on the drainer belonging to it, moisten 
with a fjood wine mirepoix, and set it to braize with fire under and 
over. If the quality of the sturgeon be good, about four hours' gentle 



154 



DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 



boiling will suffice to braize it; the fish must be well basted with 
its liquor every now and then. When the sturgeon is done, take it up, 
remove the skin, drain, and afterward mask it with some stiff glaze, 
in which has been mixed some pounded lobster-coral in sufficient 
quantity to give the sturgeon a bright scarlet color ; form on its 
centre a palm or star, with some contises fillets of soles. The orna- 
mental skewers that appear in the woodcut, must, if used — which is 
not strictly essential — all be garnished with a large truffle, crayfish, 
mushroom, quenelle, and truffle. Pour some Cardinal sauce (No. 48) 
round it, garnish with a border of tails of very small lobsters, and 
alternate groups of small quenelles of whiting, button-mushrooms, and 
truffles. 




433. STURGEON A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare the sturgeon as in either of the foregoing instances, and 
after having glazed and dished it up, pour some Genoise sauce No. 
30) round it ; garnish with a border of large crayfish, and servo. 

434. STURGEON A LA DAUPHINE. 

Pare off the whole of the skin of a prime cut of sturgeon, weigh- 
ing about 8 lbs. ; garnish the inside to its full extent with some 
quenelle force-meat of whiting, mixed with some, chopped and sim- 
mered fine herbs ; wrap the sturgeon in thin layers of bacon — 
secured on with string ; set the sturgeon to braize in some wine 
mirepoix ; when done, drain it and put it to cool in the larder, after 
which cover it well over — first divesting it of the bacon, &c, — with a 
coating of stiffly -reduced Allemande sauce, and when the sauce has 
cooled upon the fish, bread-crumb it in the usual manner, drop a 
little clarified butter over it through a straining-spoon, put it on a 
drainer into a deep baking-dish, and set it in the oven to lu> baked 
of a light color. Then place it on a dish, sauce with Sturgeon 
sauce (No. 56), garnish with an outer row of quenelles of gurnets, 



STURGEON. 155 

mixed with some chopped and blanched parsley, and garnish the inner 
circle with alternate groups of thin scollops of lobster (tossed in a 
little lobster-coral butter, to render them of a bright scarlet color), 
and some button mushrooms and scollops of gurnets tossed in a spoon- 
ful of Bechamel sauce. Stick on four ornamental Atelets, or silver 
skewers, garnished each with a large truffle, quenelle, crayfish, and 
mushroom. 

435. STURGEON" A LA PERIGORD. 

Prepare the sturgeon as in the preceding case, but instead of bread- 
crumbing it, glaze and dish it up ; sauce it with a good Perigueux 
sauce (Xo. 23), in which has been mixed some of its own liquor boiled 
down to glaze, a pat of anchovy butter, and a little lemon-juice ; gar 
nish with a border of truffle crjustades made as follows : — 

Choose a dozen or eighteen large truffles of equal size, boil them in 
some wine mirepoix, cut a piece from the top, of the thickness of a 
penny piece, scoop out the inside of the truffles, and cut the produce 
into thin scollops, which after mixing with a little of the sauce, replace 
in the truffles; cover them with some small fillets of soles contises with 
some red tongue, and turned round in the shapes and size of half-a- 
crown piece, and simmered in a little butter. Send up some of the 
sauce to table in a boat. 

436. STURGEON A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Stuff and braize the sturgeon according to the foregoing directions, 
trim, glaze, and dish it up ; then pour some Bourguignotte sauce (Xo. 
28) round it, garnish with groups of mushrooms, glazed button-onions, 
small quenelles, and crayfish tails. 

Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. 

437. STURGEON A L'lNDIENNE. 

Braize the sturgeon in some wine mirepoix, take about a pint of 
the liquor, reduce and mix it in some Indian curry sauce (No. 47) pre- 
pared for the purpose, add a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon- 
juice, sauce the sturgeon, and garnish it round with a border of rice 
or icslacles, filled with curried prawns or shrimps ; ornament it with 
four Atelets — each garnished with a large crayfish, a contise fillet of 
sole, and a fine smelt, fried : the smelt here alluded to must be trussed 
previously to its being fried, and the point of a skewer run through its 
tail and eyes, and again through the centre of the body, also through 
the fillet of sole, and the large crayfish. Send up, as usual in such 
cases, some of the sauce in a boat. 

438. STURGEON AU GRATIN, WITH FINE HERBS. 

This method of dressing sturgeon should be resorted to only when 
it happens that a sufficient remnant is left from the previous day's 
dinner. In such a case, cut the sturgeon into neatly-trimmed scol- 
lops, and toss these in some reduced Allemande sauce, incorporated 
with some of the essence of the sturgeon — previously boiled down 
to glaze; add some fine herbs, lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, 
and half a pat of anchovy butter ; mix the whole well together ; put 
the scollops on a silver dish, piled up in the form of a dome; cover 
them with some fried bread-crumbs, mixed with one-third part of 



156 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

grated fresh Parmesan cheese. About twenty minutes before dinner- 
time, place the dish in the oven to gratinate the scollops : pass the red- 
hot salamander over them, to melt the cheese ; pour round some of the 
sauce reserved for the purpose ; garnish with some croquettes of stur 
geon, lobster, or potatoes, and send to table. 

439. STURGEON A LA RUSSE. 

Braize the sturgeon as usual, either in some wine mirepoir, or 
merely in vinegar and water, when economy is an object. When 
the sturgeon is done, take off the skin, trim, and mask it with some 
stiff glaze mixed with some pounded lobster-coral ; ornament it on 
the centre with some small fillets of gurnets contises with green 
gherkins, — previously placed in a buttered sauta-pan, in the shape of 
half-moons, and simmered in a little butter ; at each end place a row 
of turned olives ; pour round it some rich Genoise sauce (No. 30) — 
finished with a good piece of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice, 
a spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, two spoonsful of capers, 
some turned olives, two dozen crayfish tails, and about the same 
quantity of small quenelles of anchovies. Garnish round the inner edjBB 
of the dish with some smelts trussed in the same way as whitings, and 
fried. 

440. STURGEON A L'ANGLAISE 

Trim and skin a fine piece of sturgeon — or a small whole fish ; 
line the inside with some well-seasoned ordinary veal-stuffing; re- 
place the skin, and secure it with string ; put the sturgeon on a 
drainer in the fish-kettle ; garnish with carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, 
and bay-leaf, mace, peppercorns, and six cloves, a handful of trim- 
mings of mushrooms, and a little salt ; moisten with a bottle of 
port wine ; cover with a well-buttered paper, and set it on the fire to 
boil ; then place it on a slow fire to stew gently till it is done. Xext 
drain, trim, and glaze it; place it on a dish, and put it in the hot 
closet until dinner-time. Meanwhile, take some of the liquor in 
which the sturgeon has been stewed, with three glasses of good Port 
wine, and boil the whole down to half-glaze, and add it to some 
finished Espagnole, or brown sauce; work in a pat of anchovy butter, 
and two pats of fresh butter, a little cayenne, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon-juice; pour the sauce into a stewpan containing some button- 
mushrooms, scollops of lobster, and small quenelle of whiting, colored 
with some very fine chopped and blanched parsley ; allow the 
whole to boil up for a minute on the stove ; sauce the sturgeon over 
with this ragout; garnish it round with a border of large crayfish, and 
serve. 



Sturgeon, in addition to the preceding modes of preparation, may be 
dressed similarly to salmon, in all its varieties. 



157 



COD FISH, 

COMPRISING 

p oil. and Oyster Sauce. Crimped slices of Cod d la Hollandaise. 
Do. stuffed and baked. „ ,, „ d la Colbert. 

Do. d la crime au gratin. „ „ „ in Matelotte Nor- 

Crimped slices of Cod, and Oyster Sauce. mande. 

„ ., „ d la Seville. Scollops of Cod d la Bechamel. 

Fillets of Cod d I'lndiinne. Slices of crimped Cod d la Maitre d'H6tel. 

Baked Cod's head. 

441. COD, AND OYSTER SAUCE. 

Boil the cod, whether it be crimped or plain, in boiling spring 
water, into which throw a handful of salt ; as soon as the fish is done, 
drain it instantly, and place it on a dish, with a clean wet napkin over 
it, to keep it moist : just before dinner, take off the napkin, and send 
the cod to table with a sauce-boat full of white Oyster sauce (No. 50). 

Cod-fish is rarely dressed whole, as, in addition to its unwieldy size, 
the length of time required to boil so large a fish deprives it materially 
of its peculiar attraction, which is never so effectually obtained as 
when the fish is crimped, and cut into slices, previously to its being 
boiled. 

442. COD STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Clean, trim, and stuff a cod with some well-seasoned veal-stuffing ; 
secure this by sewing up the belly ; then truss the fish in the shape of 
the letter S ; make several deep incisions on either side, and place it in 
a deep baking dish previously well spread with fresh butter ; season 
with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt ; moisten with 
half a bottle of Sherry, and the liquor of two dozen oysters; then set 
the fish in the oven to bake ; and every ten minutes, or oftener, baste 
it with its own liquor; when it is nearly done, sprinkle it over with 
some fine raspings of bread, and again put it in the oven for ten 
minutes longer. When the cod is baked, draw the strings out of it ; 
place it on its dish, then pour two glasses of Sherry into the dish in 
which the cod has been baked, and also a little consomme — to detach 
the glaze from round the pan ; pass the whole through a tammy into a 
stewpan ; add some brown sauce ; reduce the whole to a proper con- 
sistency ; work in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne, and lemon- 
juice, beard the oysters, and add them to the sauce ; pour it round the 
cod, and send to table. 

443. COD A LA CEEME AU GRATIN. 

Is prepared in a similar manner to tubot a la crtme au gratin (for 
which see No. 401). 

444. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD AND OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put crimped slices of cod in boiling spring water containing a 
handful of salt, as before directed ; as soon as it boils up again, set 
the fish-kettle by the side of the stove to continue boiling for about 
a quarter of au hour ; when done, drain and dish up the fish with 



158 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

some pieces of liver and charlton*, — which should be boiled apart 
from the fish, so that the oil contained in the liver may not spoil the 
color or flavor of the cod. Send up to table with a boat of Oyster 
sauce (No. 50). 

445. SLICES OF COD A LA SEVILLE. 

Wash and dry half a pound of Carolina rice ; fry it in salad-oil, 
drain it on a sieve, and afterward put it into a large fricandeau pan; 
then cut some pieces of crimped cod, about four inches square, and fry 
them of a fine color in some salad-oil, after which drain and place them 
on the rice. Next cut a Spanish onion into very thin slices, and fry 
these in some of the oil used for the fish ; drain off the oil and add six 
large ripe tomatas, from which the seeds have been squeezed ; simmer 
the tomatas and the onions together on the fire for five minutes, and 
pour the whole on the fish and rice ; season with a little cayenne, salt, 
and lemon-juice ; moisten with a pint of good broth ; place a buttered 
paper on the top, cover with the lid of the pan, and put the whole to 
bake in the oven. In about half an hour, the fish and rice will be done, 
when take the pieces of cod out of the rice, place them on an earthen 
dish, and with a wooden spoon stir the rice over the fire, in order to 
mix it with the seasoning; after which put the rice on a silver dish, and 
place the pieces of cod-fish on it ; sauce it round with some Muscle 
sauce (No. 52), and send to table. This is a favorite dish in Spain. 

446. COD A l'indienne. 

Trim some pieces of cod in the shape of fillets ; keep them rather 
thick ; place them neatly in a deep sauta-pan, previously buttered : 
then moisten them with some Indian Curry sauce (No. 4T) prepared 
for the purpose ; cover with a stewpan-lid, and set the fillets on a sharp 
fire to simmer ; about twenty minutes will suffice to stew them ; then 
dish up the fillets — the one overlaying the other — in the form of a 
circle ; pass the sauce through a tammy, pour it over them, and send 
to table. 

447. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

In order to produce this fish in perfection, it is advisable to bespeak 
some very thin slices of crimped cod, not more than half an inch thick, 
of the fishmonger, a day or two beforehand. About an hour or two 
before dinner, sprinkle the slices of cod with salt ; and ten minutes 
before sending to table, boil them quickly ; as soon as done, dish them 
up, and send them to be eaten immediately, with some delicately-pre- 
pared Dutch sauce (No. 42). 

This method of preparing crimped fish is a favorite one in Holland; 
where, however, plain butter is taken with it, prepared as follows : — 

Put the butter in a small stewpan, with a little salt, pepper, nutmeg. 
and lemon-juice; then keep stirring it by a slow fire till the butter is 
sufficiently melted, taking care that it does not become oily. 

448. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD A LA COLBERT. 
Procure some very thin slices of crimped cod ; bread-crumb and 

* A soft whitish substance in curling folds found inside cod-fish. 



COD FISH. 159 

fry them ; dish them up with some cold Maitre d 1 Hotel butter (No. 44) 
under them ; then sauce them round with an essence prepared for the 
purpose, as follows : 

Put the trimmings of the fish with a sole, or two or three flounders, 
cut into pieces, into a small stewpan, with carrot, parsley roots, thyme, 
mace, and peppercorns ; moisten with two glasses of white wine, and 
allow the whole to boil down to half; add a small ladleful of good 
consomme ; set the essence to boil gently for half an hour ; strain and 
reduce it down one-third, to which add a spoonful of Bechamel or 
Allemande sauce, and use it as directed above. 

449. CRIMPED SLICES OF COD, IN MATELOTTE NORMANDE. . 

Place some. thin slices of cod on a silver dish, previously spread 
with butter ; season them with a little pepper and salt, and sprinkle 
some chopped parsley over them ; moisten with two glasses of French 
white wine and some oyster liquor ; cover with a buttered paper, and 
half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake, taking care 
to baste them occasionally. When the fish is -done, pour the liquor 
there may be in the dish into a ragout prepared for the purpose, in the 
usual manner (No. 194), and wipe the edges of the dish with a wet 
napkin ; sauce the slices of cod over with the ragout, and garnish round 
with a border of fried smelts and large crayfish ; place some glazed 
oval croutons round the inner circle, and send to table. 

450. SCOLLOPS OF COD A LA BECHAMEL. 

Cut and trim some crimped cod into neat scollops ; simmer them 
in a sauta-pan with a little fresh butter and salt ; when done, drain 
them on a napkin, and afterward toss them gently in a stewpan, with 
some good cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6) ; dish them up, pyramidally, 
iu the entree dish, and garnish round with a border of potato cro- 
quettes. 

To save time, or indeed as a variety, these scollops may also be pre- 
pared in the following manner : 

Boil the slices, or piece of cod, drain it, and then break it gently into 
large flakes, which toss in some Bechamel sauce ; dish up and garnish 
as directed above. 

451. SLICES OF CRIMPED COD A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Steep some thin slices of crimped cod in a little oil, pepper, and 
salt ; broil them on a gridiron rubbed with whitiug, and when done, 
glaze them over very lightly ; dish them up, and sauce them under and 
round with a well-seasoned Maitre d 1 Hotel sauce (No. 43), and send to 
table. 

452. cod's head baked. 

Fill the hollow of the gills with some veal stuffing ; put the head 
into a deep baking dish — season with pepper and salt, a little chopped 
shalot, and a spoonful of chopped parsley ; moisten with two glasses 
of Sherry and a little mushroom catsup ; put two pats of butter on 
the fish, and place it in the oven to bake, remembering that it must be 
frequently basted with its liquor, adding, if necessary, a little con- 
somme for the purpose. After the cod's head has been in the oven 
ten minutes, sprinkle it over with some bruised raspings of bread, 



160 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

and when its baking is completed, place it on its dish; then add a 
spoonful of brown sauce and half a glass of wine to the liquor in 
which the head has been baked, and allow the whole to boil down to 
the consistency of sauce ; add a pat of butter, a little essence of ancho- 
vies, and lemon-juice ; work the whole together, pour the sauce round 
the cod's head, and send to table 



< 



HADDOCKS AND COD'S SOUNDS, 

COMPRISING 

Haddocks d la Royale. Fillets of Haddocks d la Marfchale. 

„ stuffed and baked. „ „ d I'/talienne. 

„ d la Belle-vue. Cod's sounds and Egg sauce. 

„ broiled, with Dutch sauce. „ „ d la Ravigatte. 

„ broiled, with Egg sauce. „ „ d la Gascomie. 

Fillets of Haddocks d la Royale. „ „ d la Royale. 

453. HADDOCKS A LA ROYALE. 

Bone and stuff two haddocks with some quenelle force-meat of 
whiting ; place them head to tail on a baking-sheet ; then season them 
with a little pepper and salt, and bake them. After allowing the 
haddocks to cool, cover them with a thin layer of quenelle force-meat 
of whitings, and place thereon some contises fillets of soles, in a slant- 
ing direction ; mask the heads with a little of the force-meat, mixed 
with some pounded lobster-coral, and form the eyes and mouth with 
truffles ; cover the haddocks with very thin layers of bacon, placing 
over all a buttered paper. About three-quarters of an hour before 
diuner, put the haddocks in the oven to finish baking. Just before 
serving, take off the paper, and remove the layers of bacon, and with 
a clean napkin absorb all the grease and moisture there may be upon 
them ; then carefully remove the haddocks on to their dish, sauce them 
round with some Parisian sauce (Xo. 40), and garnish them with some 
quenelles of lobster, with a large scollop of truffle intervening between 
each quenelle, and send to table. 

454. HADDOCKS, STUFFED AND BAKED, 

Are prepared iu the same manner as cods' heads baked, previously 
described. 

Haddocks, after being baked, may also be served with Poivrade, 
Piquante, Tomata, Italian, Oyster, Muscle, or caper sauces. 

455. HADDOCKS A LA BELLE-VUE. 

Skin two haddocks ; truss them as you would whitings for frying, 
and put them into a baking dish ; cover them with a layer of 
quenelle force-meat of whitings, covered with lobster-coral ; then 
place across their backs some fillets of soles OOnHsis with green 
gherkins, taking care to leave the space of an inch between each 
fillet, so as to insert some small truffles cut in the shape of olives ; 
cover them with thin layers of fat bacon, and over all place a buttered 



HADDOCKS, AND COD'S SOUNDS. 161 

paper ; moisten with three glasses of white wine, and put the haddocks 
in the oven to bake for about half an hour. Then remove the paper 
and bacon, and slip them, with great care, on to their dish ; sauce 
them round with Ravigotte sance (No. 20) and garnish with a bor- 
der of quenelles of whiting in which has been mixed a sufficient 
quantity of very fine chopped parsley, to color them, and send to 
table. 

456. HADDOCKS BROILED, WITH DUTCH SAUCE. 
To broil haddocks in perfection, it is necessary, first, to wipe them 
well over, and then to score them with a sharp knife ; next to steep 
them in a little salad oil, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before 
dinner, place the haddocks on a gridiron which has been rubbed with 
whitening, and broil them ; when done on both sides, dish them up on 
a napkin, and send some Dutch sauce (No. 42) to table in a boat. 

457. HADDOCKS BOILED, WITH EGG SAUCE. 

Boil the haddocks in salt and water ; when done, drain and dish 
them up, and send them to table with egg sauce (No. 84) in a boat. 

This fish, when plain boiled, may be sent to table with almost every 
kind of fish sauce. 

458. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A LA BOYALE. 
Fillet one or more haddocks; remove the skin by passing the 

knife under the fillet, so as to detach the tail end of the skin from the 
fish, then take a firm hold of the piece of detached skin, and inserting 
the knife, with the edge of the blade turned from you, draw the skin 
toward you, and keep moving the knife to and fro, at the same time 
pressing the blade firmly on the skin. Having thus removed the skin, 
cut each fillet into two or more smaller fillets, trim them neatly, by 
paring off the rough edges ; place them in a basin with two sliced 
shalots, some sprigs of parsley, oil, and lemon-juice, and season with 
pepper and salt. About ten minutes before dinner, drain the fillets 
on a napkin, and afterward dip each fillet separately in some light 
batter, and fry them of a fine color in some hog's-lard, heated for 
the purpose ; when done, drain them on a napkin to absorb the greese ; 
dish the fillets in the form of a wreath, lying shoulder to shoulder, 
pour in the centre some white Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to 
table. 

459. FILLETS OF HADDOCKS, A LA MAEECHALE. 
Prepare these in the same manner as fillets of turbot d la Mare- 
chale (see No. 404). 

460. FILLETS OF HADDOCK, A L'lTALIENNE 
Fillet one or more haddocks, remove the skins, cut and trim them 
into smaller fillets; place these neatly in a sauta-pan with some clari- 
fied butter; season with pepper and salt, squeeze a little lemon-juice 
over them, sprinkle some chopped parsley ; over all place a round of 
buttered paper, and put them in the oven, or on a moderate fire, to 
simmer for about ten minutes ; then drain the fillets on a napkin, 
and afterward dish them up in the form of a wreath, one fillet rest- 
ing on the other, and pour some Italian sauce, mixed with a pat of 
butter, a little anchovy and lemon-juice over them, and send to table. 
10 



162 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

By varying the sauce, fillets of haddocks prepared in the above 
manner, are named according to the sauce employed : as for instance, 
a la RavigoUe, a la Maitre d J Hotel, a la Hollandaise , &c. 

461. cod's sounds, and egg sauce. 

Preparatory to boiling cod's sounds, it is quite necessary that 
they should be soaked in milk and water for at least six hours, and 
then washed and put to boil in a stewpan containing fresh milk and 
water, then continue gently boiling till they are done ; about an hour 
will suffice for this. When done, drain them on a napkin, cut them 
into pieces about an inch and a half square, and put them into a 
stewpan with a sufficient quantity of egg sauce (No. 84) ; toss the 
whole together over the fire, pile them upon a dish in a pyramidal 
form, garnish them round with neatly-cut boiled parsnips, and send 
to table. 

462. cod's sounds, a la ravigotte. 

Prepare and cut the sounds into pieces, as directed in the preceding 
article ; toss them in some Ravigotte sauce (Xo. 20), dish them up, 
garnish round with a border of potato croquettes, and send to table. 

463. cod's sounds, a la gasconne. 

Prepare the sounds as usual, step them iu oil, vinegar, sbalot, 
and parsley, season with a little minionette pepper ; just before 
dinner, fry -the sounds in butter, dish them up in the form of a 
wreath, pour under them some Gasconne sauce (Xo. 68), and send 
to table. 

464. cod's sounds, a la royale. 

The sounds should be prepared and fried as in the preceding case ; 
and afterward dished up similarly, with white Ravigotte sauce (Xo. 29) 
poured under them, and sent to table. 

Cod's sounds may also be dressed a la Roulette, a VIndienne, a la 
Bechamel, a la Maitre d? Hotel, in the same manner, of course substi- 
tuting any of the above sauces for the Ravigotte. 



DRESSED SOLES, GURXETS, AXD MACKEREL, 

COMPRISING 

•Soles fried, with Shrimp sauce. Gurnets stuffed and baked. 

„ boiled. „ d la Daitphiite. 

„ d la Colbert. „ d la Genuise. 

„ au gratin. Mackerel boiled. 

„ -with fine herbs. „ broiled, d la Maitre d'Hotil. 

„ d la Parisenne. „ broiled with nut-brown butter. 

„ d la MarSchale. Fillets of Mackerel, d la Mail re d'Hot-l. 

„ in Matelotte Normande. 

„ d la Plctsy. 

465. fried soles with shrimp sauce. 

Moderate-sized soles are preferable for frying, as when large, 
from their size and thickness, they must necessarily remain a con- 



SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL. 163 

siderable time in the frying-fat, and will thereby contract a strong 
flavor, as well as imbibe a greater portion of the fat ; they are also less 
likely to appear crisp, so essential a requisite in all fried fish. Clean 
the soles thoroughly, pull off the brown skin, cut off the head trans- 
versely, and with a pair of large scissors trim away the fins close up to 
the fillets ; then wash and wipe the soles dry, and roll them in a little 
flour ; dip them first into some beaten egg, and then in fine bread- 
crumbs, and place the fish on a dish in a cool place until within twenty 
minutes of dinner-time ; then fry them in some hot lard ; when done, 
drain them on a napkin, and dish them up with some fried parsley, and 
serve with a sauce-boat full of shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, or lobster 
sauce. 

466. BOILED SOLES. 

For boiling, crimped soils are preferable ; but when these are not to 
be obtained, choose large and thick fish — such, for instance, as Torbay 
soles. Trim the soles, and rub them over with lemon-juice ; sprinkle 
over some salt, and put them on in boiling water ; when done, dish 
them up, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with Dutch, Lobster, 
Shrimp, Anchovy, or French Caper sauce. 

467. SOLES, A LA COLBERT. 

Clean and trim the soles, wash and wipe them dry with a clean 
cloth ; then flour them over and fry them, after which cut them open at 
the back, and carefully take out the backbone ; fill the inside with some 
cold Maitre <V 'Hotel butter (No. 44) ; turn the soles on their backs in a 
dish, pour round them an essence of fish, or of anchovies (No. 176), 
and serve them quite hot. 

468. SOLES, AU GRATIN. 

Spread some fresh butter on a silver dish, and place the soles, head 
and tail, on it; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle some chopped 
parsley over them, and moisten with two glasses of white wine ; half an 
hour before dinner, put them in the oven to bake; when they have been 
in twenty minutes take them out; and, after saucing them all over with 
some brown Italian sauce (No. 12), shake some fine raspings of bread 
over the whole, and put the soles back in the oven to gratinate for a 
few minutes; just before sending to table pass the red-hot salamander 
over them, and serve. 

469. SOLES WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Trim the soles close up to the fillets ; put them on a buttered sauta- 
pan ; sprinkle over them some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one 
shalot ; season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten 
with two glasses of white wine ; cover them with a buttered paper, and 
set them in the oven to bake. When done, drain their liquor 
into a small stewpan containing some Allemande sauce ; add a spoon- 
ful of chopped and blanched parsley, a pat of fresh butter, and lemon- 
juice ; work the whole well together on the fire ; wipe the edges of the 
dish with a clean napkin dipped in hot water, and sauce the soles 
over; place round them a border of glazed thin croutons, and send 
them to table. 



164 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

470. SOLES, A LA PARISIEXNE. 

Trim a pair of fine large soles, slit them down the back, and take 
the bone out ; line the soles with some quenelle force-meat of whitings 
mixed with some chopped fine-herbs ; put them on a buttered sauta- 
pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with two glasses of white 
wine, cover with a buttered paper, and put them in the oven to bake. 
When done, pnt them in press between two earthen dishes, and set 
them in the larder to cool. In the mean time, prepare some stiffly- 
reduced Allemande sauce, with which, after neatly trimming the soles, 
cover them all over ; and when the sauce, by getting cold, has set firmly 
upon them, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs ; fry them of a fine 
light color, dish them up, and garnish with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), 
place round them a border of large crayfish and glazed croutons, and 
send to table. 

471. SOLES, A LA MARECHALE. 

Bone a pair of soles, line them with quenelle force-meat of whiting, 
bread-crumb, with Allemande sauce, and then fry the fish ; drain them 
on a napkin, dish them up, and sauce them round with some Venetian 
sauGe (No. 26), and serve. 

472. MATELOTTE NORMANDE OF SOLES.* 
Bone two fine soles ; line them with quenelle force-meat of whitings 
mixed with some chopped fine-herbs ; place them on a buttered sauta- 
pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with half a bottle of French 
white wine, some oyster liquor, and white essence of mushrooms ; put 
them in the oven to bake, and when done, remove the soles carefully on 
to their dish. Reduce the liquor, incorporate it in a rich Mat-e'lotte 
Normande ragout (No. 194), with which sauce the soles all over, 
and garnish round with a border of crayfish, and some oval croutons, 
made with the crusts of French rolls fried in butter, and glazed, then 
serve. 

473. MATELOTTE OF SOLES, A LA PLESSY. 

Bone, stuff, and bake a pair of large soles, as described in the pre- 
ceding directions, and when done, put them in press between two 
earthenware dishes; as soon as they have cooled, mask them over with 
some fish quenelle force-meat, colored with lobster coral ; smooth them 
over with the blade of a large knife, dipped in hot water; then place 
the soles carefully on a silver dish buttered for the purpose, and after 
ornamenting the centre of each sole with a bold decoration, — composed 
of truffles, — cover them with some very thin layers of fat bacon : 
moisten with a glass of French white wine, and put them in the oven 
for about a quarter of an hour, in which time they will be done. Re- 
move the bacon, glaze them slightly, and garnish them round with a 
Parisian sauce (No. 40), with the addition of some fine white muscles; 
place round the Matelotte a border of fried smelts, previously boned 
and stuffed with force-meat, and serve. 

474. GURNETS STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Cut off the fins and head from two or more gurnets, stuff them 

with veal stuffing, sew them up, and score them with a sharp knife 

on both sides; then place the gurnets in a buttered baking-dish, 

season them with pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and two *Mtl 



SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL. 165 

of butter; moisten with two glasses of Sherry, some essence of mush- 
rooms, and a little consomme, and put them in the oven to bake, — 
taking care to baste them every five minutes until they are done. 
Then remove the gurnets on to their dish, and detach the glaze from 
the bottom and sides of the dish in which they have been baked, with 
a glass of Sherry ; reduce the essence to a demi-glaze, and incorpo- 
rate it into one of the following sauces, with a pat of butter and a 
little essence of anchovies ; pour the sauce over the gurnets and send 
to table. Either Piquante, Italienne, Gasconne, Proven$ale, Poi- 
vrade, Genoise, or Tomata sauce, will suit this fish, when prepared in 
the above manner. 

475. GURNETS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Cut off the heads and fins from two gurnets, boil them in water with 
a little salt and vinegar ; when done, drain and skin them, then cover 
them with some stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce (No. *?), and when this 
has cooled upon them, egg them over and cover with bread-crumbs, and 
place them on a buttered baking-sheet ; half an hour before dinner put 
them in the oven to bake, and as soon as they have acquired a Rue 
color, dish them up, and garnish round with some Bavigotte sauce, 
containing some crayfish tails, and send to table. 

476. GURNETS, A LA GENOISE. 

Boil or bake one or more gurnets in some mirepoix (No. 236) ; 
drain, skim, glaze, and place them on their dish, and sauce them with 
Genoise sauce (No. 30) ; garnish round with large crayfish, or que- 
nelles of whiting or gurnet. 

Gurnets, either boiled or baked, may be sent to table with any kind 
of fish sauce ; but as they do not possess any decided flavor of their 
own, sharp, or Piquante sauce should be used in preference* 

Note. — Fillets of gurnets may be dressed in every variety of form, 
and served with any kind of sauce, similar to soles. 

477. BOILED MACKEREL. 

Boil the mackerel in salt and water, dish it up, and send to table, 
either with fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. 

478. BROILED MACKEREL, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Split the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and 
oil it over; then place it on a gridiron, over a moderate fire ; when the 
mackerel is done on one side, turn it over on the other ; and as soon 
as it is done through, take it up on a dish and put some cold Maitre 
d 1 Hotel butter (No. 44) inside it, and pour a well-finished Maitre d'H tel 
sauce (No. 43) round it, and send to table. 

479. BROILED MACKEREL, WITH NUT-BROWN BUTTER. 
Broil the mackerel as directed in the last article, dish it up, garnish 

it round with fried parsley, and pour over it some nut-brown butter 
(No. 93). 

480. FILLETS OF MACKEREL, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 
Fillet the mackerel thus : 

Place the fish on the table with its back toward you, then run the 
knife in just below the gills, turn the edge of the blade under, press 



166 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

with the fingers of the left hand full on the upper end of the fillet, 
and bearing with the blade of the knife upon the side of the backbone, 
draw the knife gently down to the tail, and turn the mackerel over and 
take the fillet off the other side : when this is done, cut each fillet into 
two, trim the ends neatly, and place them side by side on a buttered 
sauta-pan, season with pepper aud salt and chopped parsley, squeeze 
the juice of half a lemon over them, and then pour a little oiled butter 
upon each, and cover with a round of buttered paper. About twenty 
minutes before dinner, either put them in the oven or on a stove-tire 
to simmer, and when done, drain the fillets on a napkin, dish them 
up in the form of a wreath, the fillets resting upon each other ; 
sauce them over with some Maitre (VHjtel sauce (No. 43), and send 
to table. 

The soft roes, if any, in the mackerel, should be parboiled in boiling 
water containing a little vinegar and salt ; then draiu them on a nap- 
kin, and place them in the centre of the fillets when dished up. 

Fillets of mackerel, prepared as described in the first part of the 
above directions, may be sent to table with either of the following 
sauces: Vertpre, Ravigotte, Italienne, or Genoise. 



DRESSED MULLETS, &c, 

COMPRISING 

Mullets in cases, with fine-herbs. Fillets of Whiting, d la Mnttre d'H6ul. 

„ a V Italihme. „ „ d la Horly. 

„ d la Genoise. „ „ d la Marichale. 

„ au ragout Cardinal. „ „ d la Jiot/ale. 

„ d la Chesterfield. Whitings boiled. 
Gray Mullets, Graylings, Ac. fried. 

broiled, <fcc. 

481. MULLETS IN CASES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Scale and trim the mullets, place them in a sauta-pan spread with 
fresh butter for the purpose ; season with a little pepper and salt, 
cover them with some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), moisten with two 
glasses of Sherry or white wine. About half an hour before dinner 
(the exact time dependiiig on the size of the fish), put the mullets in 
the oven to bake ; occasionally basting them with their own liquor. 
When done, put each of them, separately, in an oblong paper case sat- 
urated with oil, and then lightly colored in the oven ; add a glass of 
wine to the sauce remaining in the sauta-pan, shake it about to detach 
the glaze from the sides, and then mix the whole with the remainder 
of the fine-herbs sauce reserved for the purpose ; reduce the whole, mix 
in a little essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon ; add a 
spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, sauce the mullets over in 
their cases, dish them up, and send to table. 

Mullets may be dressed with fine-herbs, also, in the following man- 
ner : Trim and place the mullets on a buttered sauta-pan. season with 
pepper and salt, strew over them chopped mushrooms, shalot, and 
parsley ; moisten with two glasses of Sherry aud a large spoonful of 



MULLETS. 167 

brown sauce ; bake and finish them exactly in the same manner as pre- 
viously directed. 

482. MULLETS A L'lTALIENNE. 

When the mullets are trimmed, put them in a buttered santa-pan, 
season with pepper and salt, and moisten with three glasses of French 
white wine, and some essence of mushrooms ; bake the fish, taking 
care to baste them frequently while in the oven ; when done, dish 
them up, and mask them over with some glaze mixed with some 
finely-bruised lobster-coral ; sauce them round with some Italian sauce 
(No. 12), incorporated with the liquor in which the mullets have been 
baked, after it has been reduced, also a little essence of anchovy, butter 
and lemon-juice, and send to table. 

483. MULLETS, A LA GENOISE. 

Prepare the mullets in a sauta-pan, as before-mentioned, moisten 
with two glasses of claret, and some essence of mushrooms ; when the 
mullets are baked, glaze them with some lobster-colored glaze, and 
dish them up. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets were 
baked, and incorporate it with some Genoise sauce (No. 30), together 
with a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice ; sauce the mullets 
round, garnish with a border of large crayfish and quenelles of 
whiting, and send to table. 

484. MULLETS, AU EAGOUT CAKDINAL. 

Prepare the mullets as a Vltalienne, dish them up after being 
glazed of a fine scarlet hue ; garnish them round with a rich cardinal 
ragout (No. 200) ; finish by placing a border of large crayfish and 
decorated quenelles of whiting round them, and send to table. 

485. MULLETS, A LA CHESTEEFIELD. 

When the mullets are trimmed, put them into a buttered sauta-pan 
with half a bottle of dry Champagne, some essence of mushrooms and 
a little pepper and salt; bake them in the oven, taking care to baste 
them frequently ; when done, glaze and dish them up, reduce their 
liquor, and add to it some bisque of crayfish sauce, previously prepared 
as follows : — 

Thoroughly wash and draw the gall from two dozen crayfish, put 
them into a stewpan with a small quantity of carrot and celery cut 
fine, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some parsley ; 
moisten with the remaining half-bottle of Champagne ; boil the cray- 
fish, and when done, remove the shells from the claws and tails, 
reserving the shells for the purpose of making crayfish butter after- 
ward (No. 184). Next, pound the bodies, tails, and claws in the 
mortar, take the produce up into a stewpan, moisten with a large 
ragout spoonful of good Allemande sauce, and after warming the puree 
over the fire, rub it through a tammy in the usual manner ; remem- 
bering that it must be kept sufficiently thick to be able to mask the 
fish with it. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets and cray- 
fish have been dressed to half a glaze, and incorporate a sufficient quan- 
tity of it with the bisque, to give it flavor; add a pat of lobster or 
crayfish butter, made with the shells reserved for this purpose, a little 
essence of anchovies and lemon-juice ; pour the sauce over the mullets, 



DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL. 

and garnish them round with a border of quenelles of whiting, colored 
with chopped and blanched parsley, and some small fillets of soles 
contises with truffles: place them alternately overlapping each other. 
The fillets of soles after being conlisis with truffles, should be turned 
round and placed in a sauta-pan with some fresh butter, previously to 
being simmered. 

Note. — Mullets should never be drawn ; it is sufficient to take out 
the gills only, as the liver and trail are considered the best parts of 
this fish. According to Yarrell's History of British Fishes, there are 
two distinct species of red mullets : the one is called the striped red, 
the other the plain red mullet, the former being the sort generally 
exposed for sale by the London fishmongers. Mr. Yarrell also 
informs us, that the generic term mullus, from which their name is 
derived, is said to have reference to the scarlet color of the sandal 
or shoe worn by the Roman Consuls, and in later times by the 
Emperors — which was called mullus. It would seem that in those 
days, the almost incredible price of £240 was given for three mullets 
of large size. 

Gray Mullets should be dressed in the same manner as red mul- 
lets ; they are sometimes plain boiled or broiled, and sent to table with 
any of the various fish sauces in use : but this fish, from its want of 
flavor, especially requires the assistance of the most skillful cookery. 

Tim; Grayling is seldom seen in the London market, although, 
from its claims to the notice of epicures, it certainly deserves to be 
better known ; when dressed in the manner described for the prepara- 
tion of mullets or whitings, it will be found deserving a higher estima- 
tion than has hitherto been accorded to it. This fish is hi season in 
the months of October and November. 

Whiting Poult, which in shape somewhat resembles perch, and in 
color is like the whiting, having when fresh much of its silvery hue, 
is found to be in best condition during the months of November and 
December, although they are sometimes taken in the spring of the 
year. Partaking in a great measure of the same character as the 
grayling, it should, like that fish, be prepared for table in a similar 
manner to red mullets. The same method is also to be used in dress- 
ing gwynniad, a species of lake fish, commonly found in Wales, Cum- 
berland, and some parts of Ireland and Scotland. 

486. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 
Fillet the number of whitings required, cut each fillet in two, trim 
the ends neatly round, and place the fillets side by side in a buttered 
sauta-pan ; season with pepper and salt, strew over them some chopped 
parsley, cover the fillets with a little melted fresh butter, and squeeze 
the juice of half a lemon over them ; cover with a buttered round of 
paper, and set them in the oven, or on the stove-fire — from five to sewn 
minutes will suffice to do them; then, take the fillets up carefully on to 
a napkin to drain, and afterward dish them up in the form of a close 
circle, pour some Maitre d'Hbtel sauce (Xo. 43) over them, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of whitings thus prepared may be sent to table with 
any of the following sauces: — Italian, Ramgotte, shrimp, fine herlts, 
crayfish, Dutch sauce, Supreme, with scollops of lobster, or oyster 
sauces : the dish is named according to the sauce used for the fillets. 



WHITINGS. 169 

487. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA HORLY. 
Fillet the whitings, and remove the skin from each, by first placing 
the fillet on the table, with the skin downward, then inserting the 
point of the knife between the skin and the flesh, bearing lightly with 
the left hand on the fillet, gradually draw the knife under, so as to 
separate the skin from the fish without wasting its flesh : having thus 
trimmed the fillets, next put them into a basin with pepper and salt, 
thyme and bay-leaf, three chalots cut into slices, and some sprigs of 
parsley ; add two tablespoonsful of oil and one of French vinegar, and 
after the fillets have been steeped for about a couple of hours, drain 
them on a napkin, dip them thoroughly in flour, and fry them of a fine 
light color ; dish them up in a pyramidal form, with some parsley fried 
of a green color, and serve up with the fish a sauce-boat of either 
of the following sauces : — white or brown Italian, Tomata, Poivrade, 
Dutch, Ravigolle, or Gasconne. 

488. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA MAEECHALE. 
Trim the fillets of any number of whitings as in the previous 
instance ; cut each in two, trim the pieces neatly, and place them 
separately on a large earthen dish. Then mask each fillet with a thin 
coating of reduced Allemande sauce, first seasoning the fillets with 
pepper and salt ; when the sauce has stiffened on them, dip each fillet 
in some very tine bread-crumbs, afterward in beaten eggs, and then 
in bread-crumbs again ; smooth and shape the fillets with the blade of 
a knife, and as each is finished off, place it with care in a sauta-pan 
containing some clarified butter. Twenty minutes before dinner, set 
the fillets on a brisk stove-fire to fry ; as soon as they have acquired a 
light color on the under side, turn them carefully over with a knife, 
and when the fillets are nicely colored on both sides, remove them on 
to a napkin, in order to absorb the butter that may remain about 
them ; then dish them up in the form of a wreath, and sance them in 
the centre with some Dutch sauce — with the addition of an infusion of 
horseradish in French vinegar — some shrimps, oysters, muscles, prawns, 
crayfish, or merely some chopped and blanched parsley, according to 
taste or convenience. 

489. FILLETS OF WHITINGS, A LA EOYALE. 
Trim and marinade the fillets of whitings in the manner directed for 
preparing whitings a la Horly (No. 487). About twenty minutes be- 
fore dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and theu dip each fillet 
separately in some light-made frying batter, and then throw them oue 
after another in some frying fat heated for the purpose ; as soon as 
they are done, and have acquired a light-brown color, take the fillets 
out of the fat on to a cloth, with the corners of which touch them 
lightly in order to absorb any grease they may retain ; then dish the 
fillets up either in a pyramidal form, or else in a circle, and pour some 
white Bavigotte, white Italian, Venetian, or Dutch sauce, under and 
round them, and send to table. 

490. WHITINGS, BOILED. 
When the whitings are trimmed, boil them in spring water with a 
little salt — about seven minutes will suffice to do them ; take the fish 
ont of the water as soon as done, dish them up on a fiih-plate covered 



170 DRESSED FISH IX GENERAL. 

with a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of either of the follow- 
ing sauces : — Anchovy, Shrimp, Plain butter, or Dutch. 

491. WHITINGS, FRIED. 

To prepare whitings for frying, it is necessary first to skin them as 
follows : — 

With a cloth in the left hand, take a firm hold of the whiting at the 
back part of the head, just below the gills, then loosen the skin on each 
side of the fish, just at the commencement of the upper dorsal fin, by 
inserting the point of a small hnife, and with the right hand pull the 
skin off sharply, first on one side and then on the other. When the 
fish is skinned and trimmed, turn the tail round into its mouth, and 
fasten the ends together with a short peg of wood ; dip each fish into 
some beaten eggs, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs. A quarter of 
an hour before dinner, fry them of a fine color in some fat heated for 
the purpose, dish them on a napkin with fried parsley, and send to 
table with a boatful of either of the following sauces : — Anchovy, 
Dutch, Shrimp, or Plain butter. 

492. ; WHITINGS, BROILED. 

Trim and score the whitings on both sides, rub them over with oil, 
and broil them on a gridiron, previously rubbed with whitening ; when 
broiled on one side, turn them over on the other, taking care to keep 
them of a fine color ; when done, dish them on a napkin, and send to 
table with a boatful of either of the following sauces : Dutch, white 
Bavigotte, Venetian, brown oyster sauce, or Maitre d'Hbtel. 

Note. — Whitings in cases with fine herbs, stuffed and baked a la 
Vileroi, a la Cardinal, &c, are dressed in the same manner as mullets. 



FRESH- WATER FISH, 

SECTION I. 

COMPRISING 

Char, d la Ginoue, Lamprey, d la Beauchamp. 

„ in Matelotte. Smelts fried. 

„ d la Hollandaise. „ in Matelotte. 

„ d la Beaufort. „ in cases, with fine-herbs. 

Lamprey in Matelotte. „ d la lioyale. 

„ d la Foley. 

Char is in season from July till October, and forms a most delicious 
variety for the table in the summer season. When perfectly fresh, it 
makes perhaps the best water souchet of any fish.* 

493. CHAR, A LA GENOISE. 

Boil the fish in salt and water, and when done, skin and glaze 
them ; dish them up, sauce with some Genoise sauce (No. 30), gar- 
nish with a border of small quenelles of whiting, and crayfish tails, and 
send to table. 

* Water Souchet of Char is described among the Water Souchcts. 



CHAR. 171 

494. CHAR, IN MATELOTTE. 

Trim the char intended to be dressed, place them in an oval stewpan 
with an onion and carrot cut in thin slices, also a bay-leaf and a sprig 
of thyme, a bouquet of parsley and green onions, a blade of mace, a few 
pepper-corns, some parings of mushrooms, and a little salt ; moisten 
with a bottle of Claret, and set the whole to stew gently on a stove-fire 
for about twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size of the 
fish. As soon as the fish are done, drain them on a wet napkin ; 
remove their skin with a knife, and place them neatly on the dish. 
Then, reduce the liquor in which the char have been stewed (after first 
being strained and skimmed), with a sufficient quantity of brown sauce 
for the purpose ; when the sauce is reduced, add a little nutmeg, a pat 
of butter, and some lemon-juice, and pass it through a tammy into a 
stewpan containing some prepared button-mushrooms, button-onions, 
and very small quenelles of whiting; warm the ragout, pour it over 
and about the char, garnish the matelotte with a border of large crayfish, 
and some croutons, and serve. 

495. CHAR, A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Boil the char in salt and water, dish them up on a napkin, and send 
to table with a boatful of Dutch sauce. 

Char, thus plain boiled, may also be sent to table with parsley and 
butter, green Bavigotte, or Crayfish sauce. 

496. CHAR, A LA BEAUFORT. 

Place the char when trimmed in an oval stewpan, with sliced carrot 
and onion, a fagot of parsley and green onions, mace, mushrooms, 
pepper-corns, thyme, bay-leaf, and salt ; moisten with French white 
wine, and set the fish to stew gently on the stove fire. When done, 
drain them on to a napkin, skin and mask them with some glaze mixed 
with some bruised coral of lobster, place them on their dish, and sauce 
them round with a Parisian ragout (No. 203) mixed with the liquor in 
which the char has been stewed, after this liquor has been reduced to 
glaze ; garnish round with a border of lobster croquettes. 

497. LAMPREY MATELOTTE. 

To cleanse lampreys,* it is necessary to put them into a large 
earthen vessel with plenty of salt, with which they should be well 
scoured, and afterward thoroughly washed in several waters : by this 
means they are freed from the slimy mucus which adheres to this 
kind of fish. The lamprey should then be trimmed and cut into 
pieces about three inches long, or it may be left whole, according to 
taste ; it should be placed in a stewpan with sliced carrot and onion, 
mace, pepper-corns, thyme, and bay-leaf, parsley, mushrooms, and salt; 

* Of this kind offish there are two different sorts in general use for the table; one 
being the sea or marine lamprey, which is abundant at Gloucester and Worcester, where 
it is dressed and preserved for the purpose of being given as presents. The olher sort, 
the Lampern, is much smaller; this is to be found in the Thames, and may easily be 
obtained at any of the London fishmongers from the month of October till March, at 
which period they are in season. The lamprey is considered to be in best condition 
during the months of April and May, when it ascends the Severn from the sea, for the 
purpose of depositing its spawn. 



172 FRESH-WATER FISH. 

moisten it with Port wine, and set the whole to stew gently on the 
stove-fire. "When done, take half the liquor in which the lampreys 
have been stewed, and reduce it with some brown sauce; add a glass 
of Port wine, and as soon as the sauce is reduced to a proper con- 
sistency, incorporate with it a pat of butter, a little essence of anchovies, 
and lemon-juice, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie, con- 
taining some button-mushrooms, stewed small button-onions, and some 
small quenelles of perch. Drain the lampreys, place them on a dish, 
sauce them over with the ragout, garnish round with crayfish, and send 
to table. 

498. LAMPREY, A LA FOLEY. 

Take two fine lampreys, thoroughly cleansed, form each into a circular 
shape, and fasten them with string : then stew them in Claret, with the 
addition of vegetables, &c, as in the foregoing cases ; as soon as the 
lampreys are done, reduce two-thirds of their liquor with an equal pro- 
portion of brown sauce, and some essence of mushrooms — when suffi- 
ciently reduced, incorporate with this some crayfish butter, and a little 
essence of anchovies, a very little nutmeg, lemon-juice, and cayenne, 
and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie containing three 
dozen crayfish tails, and as many button-mushrooms — previously pre- 
pared for the purpose. Then drain the lampreys on a napkin, and 
afterward place them, one resting on the other, in the dish, sauce them 
over with prepared ragout ; garnish round with a border of glazed 
croutons and fried small fillets of perch. 

499. LAMPREYS, A LA BEAUCHAMP. 

Truss the lampreys as directed in the previous article, stew them iu 
old Madeira, cider, and the requisite vegetables, &c. ; add two-thirds 
of their liquor to an equal quantity of good brown sauce, work the 
whole by boiling on the fire, skim and reduce it to its proper consist- 
ency, add some lobster-butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice, and pass the 
sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie containing some small round 
truffles, lobster quenelles, and tails of crayfish. Dish up the lampreys 
as in the last case, and sauce them over with the prepared ragout ; 
garnish round with some glazed pastry Jleurons, and send to table. 

Lam perns are treated in the same manner as lampreys, being similar 
iu flavor. 

500. SMELTS, FRIED, ETC. 

When preparing smelts* for frying, take the gills out carefully, trim 
the lins, wipe the fish with a clean cloth, dip them first in flour, ami 
afterward in beaten egg, and then in fine bread crumbs ; fry them in 
some heated hogs' lard, of a fine color; dish them up on a napkin, ami 
garnish them with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of 
either Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, Crayfish, or Lobster sauce. 

Smelts may also be dressed with advantage in Normande matelotie. 
in cases, with fine-herbs, a Vltalienne, a la Royale, &c; by observing the 
directions given for dressing mullets or whitings in a similar manner. 

* This kind offish, which is in general estimation, is in season from August till March, 
when after depositing their spawn in fresh water, they return to the sea. 






173 



FRESH-WATER FISH. 

SECTION II. 



COMPRISING 



Eels, spitcheocked. Carp, d la Chanbord. 

„ plain broiled. „ d la Royale. 

„ stewed, d VAnglaiae. „ d la Bourguignotte. 

Jfatelotte of Eels, d la Bordelaise. „ d la Periguenx. 

if „ d la Parisi&ine. „ d la Provenqale. 

„ „ d la Genoise. „ d VAllemande. 

Eels, d la Dauphinoise. „ d la Veniti&me. 

„ d la Vinitidnne. Stewed Carp, a VAnglaiae. 

„ d la Tartare. Small Carp fried. 

„ d la Ponlette. Tench. 

„ d I'lndienne. 

501. EELS, SPITCHCOCKED. 

As eels,* when brought into the kitchen, are frequently alive, it is 
first necessary to kill them ; this, from their tenacity of life, is found 
by many not easy to accomplish ; it is, however, merely necessary to 
insert the point of any sharp instrument into the spine, at the back of 
the head, to the depth of an inch, and the eel will become perfectly 
motionless. Then take a firm hold of the eel with a cloth in the left 
hand, and with the right hand proceed to detach the skin just below 
the gills, with the point of a small knife ; when there is a sufficient 
quantity of skin loosened, so as to gain a purchase, hold the head 
firmly with the left hand, and with a cloth in the right, force the skin 
to slide off the fish. Then cut off the head, make an incision about 
two inches in length at the vent, and the same at the neck, draw the 
gut, &c, trim away the fins, wash and thoroughly cleanse each fish; 
wipe them with a cloth, and then, after sprinkling them with salt, let 
them lie on a dish for an hour or so, previously to dressing them. 
After having trimmed the eels, lay each on its back in a straight line 
on the table, and with a knife, open it from one extremity to the 
other ; detach the back-bone, and take it out ; then cut the eel into 
several pieces about three inches long, season them with pepper and 
salt, and sprinkle them over with chopped parsley and shalot ; dip 
each piece of eel separately in some beaten egg, and afterward in some 
fine bread-crumbs. Place the eels thus prepared on a dish in the 
larder, until within twenty minutes of dinner-time ; then proceed to 
fry them of a fine color, and dish them up with fried parsley round 
them, and send to table. Either of the following may be served in 
a sauce-boat with spitcheocked eels : — Dutch, Italienne, Venilienne, 
Poivrade, Piquante, Tartare, Tomata, or Gasconne sauce. 

• There are four distinct sorts of eels: the snig, the broad-nosed, the grig, and the 
sharp-nosed ; the latter is the kind generally known. The London markets are supplied 
principally from Holland: Thames eels are, however, in high repute; being caught in a 
running stream, their skin is brighter and more silvery; they are preferable, too, from 
their greater sweetness, to the Dutch eels. 



174 FRESH-WATER FISH. 

502. EELS, PLAIN" BROILED. 

Bone and cut the eels into three-inch lengths, put them on a dish, 
season with pepper and salt, lemon juice, and two spoonsful of oil ; 
twenty minutes before dinner, broil them of a light color, dish them 
up on a napkin with fried parsley, and send to table with either of the 
sauces named in the foregoing article, in a sauce-boat, separately. 

503. EELS, STEWED A L'ANGLAISE. 

The eels being skinned, trimmed, and cut into pieces about two 
tnches long, place them in a stewpan, with some sliced carrot, onion, 
parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, a handful of mushroom trimmings, a few 
pepper-corns, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a little salt; moisten 
with half a bottle of Port wine, cover with a round of buttered paper, 
replace the lid on the stewpan, and set the eels on the stove-fire to 
stew. When they have boiled gently on the corner of the stove for 
about twenty minutes, they will be done ; then drain and trim them, 
keeping their liquor to make the sauce ; place the pieces of eel in a 
clean stewpan, and then proceed to make a sauce for them in the 
following manner : — Put about two ounces of fresh butter into a 
stewpan on the fire, and as soon as it is melted, add two tablespoons- 
ful of flour; with a wooden spoon stir them both together over 1 he 
fire, until the roux, or thickening, becomes slightly colored ; fbeu 
throw in a couple of shalots, and moisten gradually with the liqtiof 
in which the eels have been stewed, adding thereto a small ladleful of 
good stock, and a couple of glasses of Port wine. Stir the sauce over 
the fire till it boils, and set it on the corner of the stove, to continue 
gently throwing up the scum, which, having entirely removed, reduce 
the sauce, if necessary, to its proper consistency ; and then pass it 
through a tammy into the stewpau containing the pieces of eel already 
mentioned. Just before sending to table, add a few prepared button- 
mushrooms, a pat of fresh butter, some chopped and blanched parsley, 
lemon-juice, and a very small quantity of essence of anchovy ; toss 
the whole well together over the fire until well mixed ; then dish 
the eels up in a pyramidal form on their dish, pour the sauce over 
them, garnish round with a dozen croutons of fried bread, and send 
to table. 

504. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA BORDELAISE, 

Cut some eels into three-inch lengths, place them in a stewpan 
with sliced carrot, onion, parsley-roots, mushrooms, thyme, and bay- 
leaf, mace, four cloves, and a few pepper-corns ; season with a little 
salt, and moisten with a bottle of claret. Set the eels to stew on 
the fire, and when done, drain, trim, and place them in a clean stew- 
pan with a little of their liquor to moisten them. Then put the 
remainder of the liquor into a stewpan with a ladleful of brown 
sauce, some essence of mushrooms, and two glasses of claret ; let thi^ 
boil, then set it by the side of the stove to continue gently boiling, 
that it may throw up the scum, and become bright ; when this is 
effected, reduce it to its proper consistency, by boiling it down 
quickly, stirring the sauce the whole time with a wooden spoon to 
prevent its sticking to the bottom of the stewpan and burning. Then 
pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, and just before 



EELS. 175 

using it, make it hot, and incorporate with it the following prepara- 
tions : — mix a pint of butter with three anchovies, a tea-spoonful of 
capers, a clove of garlic, and a little nutmeg, pound the whole together 
and pass them through a sieve : having well worked this into the sauce, 
pour it over the matelotte, and dish up the latter as follows : — place 
the pieces of eel on the dish, in circular order — each piece resting on 
the other, with a glazed crouton of bread between — fill the centre 
with quenelles of perch, place a trimmed and glazed crayfish across 
each crouton, and garnish round the inner edge of the dish with 
alternate groups of white muscles, button-mushrooms, and stewed 
button-onions. 

505. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA PAEISIENNE. 

Cut the eels into four-inch lengths, put them into a stewpan with 
sliced carrot, &c. ; moisten with a bottle of French white wine, some 
essence of mushrooms, and the liquor produced b}' three dozen 
blanched oysters ; stew the eels thus prepared ; drain, trim, and put 
the pieces of eels into a clean stewpan, with a little of their own 
liquor to keep them moist and to warm them in. Put the remainder 
of the liquor into a stewpan with a large ladleful of white veloute 
sauce, and two glasses of white wine ; reduce the whole quickly on 
the fire, incorporate therein a leason of four yelks of eggs, a large pat 
of crayfish butter, some lemon-juice, and a little nutmeg ; pass the 
sauce into a bain-marie containing the three dozen oysters before 
alluded to, some button-mushrooms, and crayfish tails. When about 
to dish up, first place upon the dish an oval piece of bread, about 
three inches high, cut in flutes all round and fried of a light color; 
then set the pieces of eels in a perpendicular position up against the 
fried bread, garnish the crbustade with a group of small quenelles of 
whitings, sauce with the ragout prepared for the purpose, garnish 
round with large crayfish, and small fluted bread croustades filled with 
soft roes of mackerel or carp, and send to table. 

506. MATELOTTE OF EELS, A LA GENOISE. 

Either cut the eels into three or four-inch lengths, or truss them 
into an oval or round shape ; prepare them for stewing with the usual 
vegetables, &c, moisten with Claret or Burgundy wine, and set the 
eels on the fire to stew. When done, drain, trim, and glaze them 
with some lobster coral in the glaze ; pile the eels up in a pyramidal 
group on a dish, sauce with some good Genoise sauce (No. 30), made 
with the liquor in which the eels have been stewed ; garnish round 
with alternate groups of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of carp, 
and crayfish tails, and send to table. 

507. EELS, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

Bone two large eels, fill them with force-meat of whitings mixed 
with some simmered fine-herbs; then sew the eels up with a large 
worsted needle and some coarse thread ; truss them in a circular 
form, place them in an oval stewpan with some mirepoix (No. 236), 
and set them to stew on the fire, or in the oven, basting them 
frequently with their own liquor, and taking care that they arc not 
allowed to boil fast, as that would cause them to break, and otherwise 
disfigure them. When the eels are done, glaze and dish them up, 



176 FRESH- WATER CRAYFISH. 

one resting on the other in the dish ; in the centre of one, place a 
group of quenelles of whitings mixed with some chopped truffles, and 
in the centre of the other, place another group of quenelles of whitings 
colored with lobster coral ; sauce them with some Perigueux sauce 
(No. 23), in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the eels have been 
stewed in, and finish with a pat of anchovy butter and lemon-juice. 
Garnish round with large crayfish, placing a group of half-a-dozen of 
the finest of these in the centre of the dish. 

508. EELS, A LA VENITIENNE. 

Cut the eels into pieces four inches long, stew them in some mire- 
poix of French white wine ; when done, drain, trim, and glaze them 
with some lobster coral-colored glaze, and dish them up in two 
parallel conical groups; pour round them some Venetian sauce, 
(No. 26), which has been finished with the addition of half the mire- 
poix, in which the eels have been stewed, a pat of anchovy butter and 
the juice of half a lemon ; pass this through a tammy into a stewpan 
containing a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms; some blanched 
chopped parsley must be added the last thing. Garnish round with 
groups of muscles fried in batter, and serve. 

509. EELS, A LA TARTARE 

Either cut the eels into three-inch lengths, or truss them whole, 
in a circular form ; place them in a stewpan with sliced carot and 
onion, parsley, bay-leaf and thyme, a few peppercorns and salt ; 
moisten with a gill of vinegar and some water ; then put them on the 
fire to boil, and as soon as they are done, set them to cool partially in 
their lio "or : — after which drain, trim, and bread-crumb them with 
egg, fry mem of a fine color, dish them up with fried parsley, and send 
to table with some Tartare sauce (No. 96), in a sauce-boat. 

Eels a la Tartare may also be bread-crumbed as follows. Mix the 
yelks of six eggs and three ounces of fresh butter melted over the 
fire, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; with this preparation cover the 
eels, and afterward bread-crumb them — causing plenty of bread-crumbs 
to adhere ; put the eels on a buttered baking-sheet, drop some butter 
through a spoon with holes in it over them, and about half an hour 
before diner, place them in the oven to be baked of a fine color, dish 
them up as in the foregoing case, and send to table with the Tartare 
sauce, separately in a sauce-boat. 

510. EELS, A LA POULETTE. 

Stew the eels in the usual manner with white wine, or merely as 
directed for d la Tartare,' then drain, trim, and place them in a clean 
stewpan, with some of their liquor to keep them moist. Just before 
dinner, dish the eels up in a group, in the centre of the dish, sauce 
them with some good sauce d la Pouletle mixed with a pat of ancliovv 
butter (and if the eels have been stewed in white wine, half their 
liquor, reduced to a glaze, should also be added to the sauce) ; place 
round them alternate groups of crayfish tails tossed in lobster butter 
to give them a brighter color, and some scollops of perch tossed in 
some green Iiavigotte sauce ; place in the centre of the eels, just at tli<> 
top of the group, six large crayfish, eight glazed ordutons of fried 
bread round the base, and serve. 



CARP. 177 

511. EELS, A L'lNDIENNE. 

Stew the eels as directed in the foregoing cases, dish them up in the 
form of a circle, garnish the centre with plain boiled rice, sauce the eels 
with a good curry (No. 74), and garnish round with some rice croquettes, 
to he made as follows : — 

To four gravy-spoonsful of boiled rice, add one of good Allemande 
sauce, some nutmeg, and a little grated Parmesan cheese ; stir the 
whole on the fire till it has boiled two or three minutes, and set it on 
a plate to cool ; then mould the croquettes in the form of corks, pears, 
or round balls, bread-crumb them with egg in the usual way, fry them 
of a fine color, and use them as directed. 

Eels stewed and glazed according to the different modes above de- 
scribed, as well as when bread-crumbed and fried, or baked, may also 
be sent to table with the following sauces : — Bourguignotte, Tomata, 
Italian (white or brown), Cardinal, Matelotte, Normande, Ravigolte, 
Provengale, Poivrade, Piquante, Aurora, or Crayfish sauce. 

512. CARP, A LA CHAMBORD. 

Choose, if possible, a carp* weighing about six pounds, and after 
scalding, drawing, and thoroughly cleansing the fish, stuff it with some 
quenelle force-meat of whitings. Then lay the carp on a buttered 
sheet of paper, placed upon the drainer of an oval fish-kettle, cover the 
entire fish with a coating of force-meat of whitings about half an inch 
thick, keeping the head clear, and with some " contises'' 1 fillets of soles, 
form thereon a decoration resembling scales, but larger ; in the angles 
of these, place the tail of a crayfish, trimmed for the purpose ; cover 
the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with a white wine mire- 
poix, and set it to braize gently on a moderate fire, carefully prevent- 
ing it from boiling fast, as that would tend to displace the fillets, &c. 
with which the carp has been decorated. If the fish is of large size, 
it will require about an hour to braize it ; when done, drain it from its 
braize, remove the layers of fat bacon, &c, and plar^ it on a large 
silver dish ; garnish round the extremity of the inner edge of the dish 
with alternate groups of small quenelles of whitings a la Perigueux, 
button-mushrooms, white muscles, and crayfish tails; sauce round the 
carp, without covering any part of it, with some Allemande incor- 
porated with part of the liquor in which the fish has been braized, a pat 
of anchovy butter, and some lemon-juice ; glaze the head of the carp, 
and after ornamenting each end of the dish with a group of large cray- 
fish, send to table. 

513. CARP, A LA ROYALE. 

Cleanse a carp of large size, wipe it with a clean cloth, and lay it 
on a buttered paper, place it upon a drainer of an oval fish-kettle, and 
cover it entirely with quenelle force-meat of whitings colored with 

*This fish is held in high estimation on the Continent, especially those caught in the 
Rhine and Moselle. In England they are seldom found good, and this is the case also 
•with tench; both these fish being found when cooked to taste muddy: this is chiefly 
owing to their being taken from stagnant ponds. Those ouly can be expected to be free 
from this disagreeable peculiarity that are caught in running streams. 

When about to clean carp for dressing, it is quite necessary to extract an angular sub- 
Stance, called the gall-stone, which is to be found at the back of the head: if not re- 
moved, this is sure to impart a bitter taste, and render the best fish unfit for table. 
11 



178 FRESH-WATER FISH. 

lobster-coral ; smooth the surface of the force-meat with the blade of a 
knife clipped in whipped white of egg; place some fillets of soles coli- 
tises with green gherkins crosswise upon the carp, leaving the space of 
an inch between each fillet — these spaces are to be filled up by inserting 
in the force-meat some pieces of truffle, cut in the shape of small olives ; 
cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, and braize the carp as in 
the former case, in a white wine mirepoix ; when done, place it on a 
large oval dish, remove the layers of bacon, &c, sauce it round with a 
Genoise sauce (No. 30), and garnish it with a border of large quenelles 
of soles, half of which must be colored with lobster-coral, and the re- 
mainder with chopped and blanched parsley ; within the inner circle of 
the quenelles, place alternate groups of prepared oysters and the tails 
of prawns ; at the extremities, and on the flanks of the dish, place 
groups of crayfish, and send to table. 

514. CARP, A LA BOURGUINOTTE. 

Stew the carp whole in red wine, when done, drain, and place it on 
an oval dish ; sauce it with a rich Bourguignotle sauce (No. 28), gar- 
nish with soft roes and crayfish, and send to table. 

515. CARP, A LA PERIGUEX. 

Stew the carp in wine, drain it, and dish it up ; sauce it with Peri- 
gueux sauce incorporated with a pat of anchovy butter and some lemou- 
juice ; garnish with a border of lobster quenelles, and serve. 

516. CARP, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Stew the carp in a mirepoix of white wine, when done, drain and 
dish it up ; pour some Provencale sauce over it, garnish it with 
groups of muscles fried in batter, and scollops of perch tossed in 
green Bavigotte sauce ; place a border of crayfish round the dish, and 
send to table. 

517. CARP, A l'allemande. 

Glean one or more carp, cut the fish into slices about two inches 
thick ; place the slices in a basin, and season them with a gill of oil, 
a little tarragon-vinegar, minionette-pepper, and salt, bay-leaf, thyme, 
and shalot ; let the carp steep in this marinade till within about half 
an hour of dinner-time ; then drain them on a napkin, and dip each 
piece separately in flour, bread-crumb them in the usual way with egg 
and bread-crumbs mixed with one-fifth of Parmesan cheese ; fry the 
pieces of carp of a fine color, and dish them up on a napkin, placing 
the pieces so as to make the fish look whole ; surround the carp with 
a border of fried parsley, and slices of lemon, and send to table with 
two sauce-boats containing some butter sauce (see No. TO), and some 
Genoise sauce (No. 30). 

518. CARP, FRIED A LA VENITIENNE. 

Stew one or more carp in a white wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; drain 
them on an earthen dish, and after removing the skin, proceed to 
mask them with a coating of stiffly-reduced AUemande sauce (No. 7) ; 
in which has been added some of the liquor the fish have been stowed 
in. When the sauce has cooled upon the carp, first strew over some 
bread-crumbs, theu egg them over with a paste-brush, and cover them 



PIKE, OR JACK. • 179 

entirely with bread-crumbs mixed with one-third of grated Parmesan 
cheese : then place the carp in a buttered baking-dish or sheet, and 
half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake : they should 
be of a light-brown color : set the fish on an oval dish, sauce them 
round with some good Venetian sauce (No. 2G), garnish with qui'urlles 
of carp mixed with some purre of mushrooms, and -end to table. 

510. CARP. STEWED A l/aXGLAISE. 

For dressing carp in this way, see the directions for stewing eels a 
I'Aii'jUttsr (No. 5U3). 

520. SMALL CAP P. FRIED. 

Cleanse and scale the carp, split them down the back, open them 
flat, season with pepper and salt, dip them in flour, and immediately 
frv them of a fine color; dish them on a napkin, garnish round with 
fried parsley, and send to table with either Italian, anchovy, or Dutch 
hauce, separately in a sauce-boat. 

If [(referred, the carp may be bread-crumbed fur frying in the usual 
way. 

Tenth being somewhat similar to carp, may be dressed in the vari- 
ous way- in which that fish is prepared for the table, with equal suc- 
cess ; both these kinds offish make excellent Matelottes, and, indeed, it 
is not unusual to prepare JlatelofffS of carp, tench, and eels all in the 
same dish. Tench may be sent to table either fried or boiled, with 
Dutch sauce. 



FRESH- WATER FISH. 

SECTION 111. 

COM I'KISIXG 



Pike, or Jack. stuffed sm I linked. Perch, <) hi Si.uJ, . 

„ d la Chnmhord. tV. ., n In ]\',,*tn- f i*rhr. 

„ fried in slice,, :/ In Hnllawlahe. .. ,) i„ \. „;,;;„,,. . 

„ crimped in slices, •<. "■< !l<.lh,„d<iiisv. Fillets ul 1'creli, >'i " ItnUnin.; ,('■.■. 
Fillets of Pike. 

521. PIKE. OR JACK. STUFFED .VXD BAKED. 

Scale, draw the gills, and thoroughly cleanse and wipe the pike 
with a clean cloth; till the paunch with well-seasoned veal stufTimr; 
sew it up with a trussing-needle and fine string, and either turn the 
tail round into the mouth, securing them together by means of string, 
or truss the pike into the shape of the letter S ; make several deep 
incisions in a slanting direction on both sides of the fish, and place it 
in a baking-dish ; season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and 
mushrooms, and a little shalot, and from six to eight ounces of fresh 
butter: — moisten with half a bottle of Sherry, and a little good stock, 
or essence of mushrooms; cover with a well-buttered paper, and put 
the pike thus prepared in the oven to bake — observing, that it should 
be frequently basted with its liquor. When done, dish it up ; then 



180 FRESH-WATER FISH. 

with two glasses of Sherry — detach all the glaze and herbs from the 
bottom and sides of the dish in which the pike has been baked, add 
to this a ladleful of good brown sauce, reduce the whole to a proper 
consistency, and mix in two ounces of fresh butter, a little essence of 
anchovies, lemon-juice, and a trifle of cayenne ; with this sauce mask 
the pike and send to table. 

522. PIKE, A LA CHAMBORD. 

This dish is prepared in a similar manner to carp d la Chambord 
(see No. 512). 

This is also the case with pike d la Cardinal, ditto d la Royale, 
and ditto fried d V Allemande ; in fact, pike may be dressed in all re- 
spects the same as carp. 

523. PIKE, FRIED A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

When the pike is cleaned, cut it into slices an inch thick, and place 
them in an earthen vessel ; season with pepper and salt, oil, lemon- 
juice, chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; turn the slices of 
pike over in the seasoning occasionally, in order that they may be well 
saturated with it, and half an hour before dinner-time, drain them on a 
napkin, dip each separately in flour, and immediately fry them in hogs' 
lard, made sufficiently hot for the purpose; dish them on a napkin, 
place round them a border of fried parsley, aud send to table with a 
boat of well-seasoned Dutch sauce (No. 42). 

524. CRIMPED SLICES OF PIKE, A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

To produce this dish in perfection, the following instructions must 
be closely attended to in every particular : — 

Scale* and clean the pike, immediately on its being taken from the 
water ; cut the fish into slices nearly an inch thick, and put them into 
a panful of spring water — fresh from the pump — which, from its cold- 
ness, has the power of crimping the comparatively live fish thrown 
into it. About twenty minutes before dinner, boil the slices in hot 
water with a little salt ; as soon as they are done, drain and dish them 
up on a napkin, and send to table with either of the following, in a 
sauce-boat : — Parsley and butter, Dutch sauce, Maitre d f Hotel, or Cray- 
fish sauce. 

525. FILLETS OF PIKE. 

May be dressed in every variety in which salmon, turbot, or soles 
are capable of being sent to table ; and the directions given under 
those heads will suffice. It is necessary, however, to describe here the 
operation of filleting pike. 

The smaller-sized of this fish are best suited for this purpose ; these 
should be filleted as follows : — 

First lay the fish on the table, with its back placed toward you. 
insert the knife just below the gill, press with the left hand slightly 
on the upper part of the fillet, and then draw the knife down — close 
to the back-bone ; when one fillet is removed, repeat the same opera- 
tion on the other side. Then lay the fillets alternately on the table, 



over 
knife. 



The easiest way is to place the pike in a sink, and then to pour some boiling water 
it, by which means the scales are effectually removed by scraping them off with a 



PERCH. 181 

with the skin downward, insert the edge of the knife close to the skin, 
at the extreme end, and by drawing the knife to and fro, keeping the 
blade clossly pressed to the skin, it will come away from the fillet. 
Then cnt these fillets into smaller ones, according to taste or conve- 
nience, or into scollops, as the case may require. 

526. PERCH, A LA STANLEY. 

Thoroughly cleanse two or three fine bright perch, which should 
weigh not less than one pound and a half each ; stew them in Rhenish 
wine, and when done, drain them on a napkin, dish them up, and gar- 
nish with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), omitting the truffles, but con- 
taining the liquor the perch have been stewed in. Garnish round with 
a border of large crayfish, and send to table. 

527. PERCH, A LA WASTREFISCHE. 

Boil the perch in French white wine, and when done, after removing 
the skin, dish it up, and stick the red fins straight up in a row, down 
the centre of the fish ; on each side of the fins thus placed, decorate the 
perch by laying on its uppermost fillets streaks of carrot and parsley- 
roots, shred exceedingly fine, and boiled ; also in alternate rows with 
these, some blanched leaves of green parsley. Pour round the perch 
the following sauce : 

Reduce the liquor in which the perch have been stewed with a pro- 
portionate quantity of white Veloute sauce ; add a pat of fresh butter, 
some white essence of mushrooms, a little nutmeg, and lemon-juice ; 
mix the whole well together, and serve. 

528. PERCH, A LA VENITIENNE. 

Boil the perch, skim and dish them up, placing the red fins in a row 
down the centre ; moisten them over with some sauce d la Venitienne 
(No. 26), and send to table. 

In addition to the foregoing methods for preparing perch for the 
table, this fish may also be dressed in the same way as pike, carp, and 
tench, in Matelotte, a la Dauphine, Water Souchet, d VAllemande, 
a la Genoise, a la Hollandaise, a la Maitre d? Hotel, and also with 
Shrimp, Parsley and butter, and plain Butter sauce. 

Note. — Perch should be served in fillets only, when it happens that 
they are small, or that they are plentiful ; otherwise it is usual to dress 
this kind of fish whole. 

529. FILLETS OF PERCH, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Follow the directions given for filleting pike, divesting the fillets 
of the skin in like manner; trim them neatly, by rounding them atone 
end, and bring the other end to a point. Then lay the fillets in a circle 
in a sauta-pan, with some clarified fresh butter; season with a little salt, 
pepper, and lemon-juice. Twenty minutes before dinner-time, set the 
fillets on the stove-fire, or in the oven, for about ten minutes to simmer ; 
and when they are thoroughly done, drain them on a napkin, and dish 
them up in the form of a close circle ; sauce them with a white or brown 
Italian sauce, and send to table. 

Fillets of perch thus prepared, may also be sent to table with either 
of the following sauces, from which the dish will take its name : a la Ravi- 
gotte, a la Maitre d'HJel, a la Cardinal, a la Vertpre, a la Hollandaiae. 



182 
SKATE, WHITEBAIT, AND SCOLLOPED SHELL-FISH, 



COMPRISING 



Crimped Skate, boiled. Crimped Skate, d la Pascaline. 
„ „ fried. „ „ d la Jloyale. 

„ „ with nut-brown butter. White Bait. 

„ „ d I'ltalienne. Scolloped Oysters. 

„ „ with fine-herbs au gratin. Muscles, Lobsters, Cockles, Ac. 

There are many varieties of skate, amongst these that generally 
called the blue or gray skate is deemed best for the table. Although 
not held in much repute, it nevertheless is not unworthy the notice of 
the epicure, when properly dressed. In order to clean this fish, skin it 
on both sides, draw and wash it thoroughly ; then lay the skate flat 
on the table, and cut it up in the following manner : First, with a 
sharp knife separate, on both sides, the fleshy parts of the fish from 
the back-bone, drawing the knife in a curving direction ; afterward, 
cut these winglike pieces into long strips, by cutting right through 
the cartilaginous or finny parts ; then, place these strips in a pan filled 
with fresh water from the pump, in order to crimp them. In like 
manner cut the fleshy parts remaining, and also the back-bone itself, 
into three-inch lengths, and place them also in the cold water to be 
crimped. Reserve the liver of the fish to be dressed with it. The 
water in which the fish is placed should be changed often, until the 
crimping be effected. 

530. CBIMPED SKATE, BOILED. 

Turn the fin-pieces of skate round and fasten them with string ; 
boil the fish in hot water with a handful of salt in it ; when done, 
drain and dish it up on a napkin, placing the pieces of liver in the 
centre ; garnish round with a row of green parsley, and send to table 
with either of the following, in a sauce-boat : Lobster, Crayfish, Shrimp, 
Anchovy, Dutch, Muscle, or Oyster sauce. 

531. CRIMPED SKATE, FRIED. 

With a clean napkin, absorb all the moisture from the pieces of 
skate intended to be fried ; after which dip each piece into flour pre- 
paratory to its being again dipped in beaten egg, and then rolled in 
very fine bread-crumbs ; turn the pieces of skate rouud into shape 
again, and fry them of a fine bright color, and dish them up on a nap- 
kin with a border of fried parsley, and send to table with either of the 
sauces recommended for boiled skate. 

532. CRIMPED SKATE, WITH NUT-BROWN" BUTTER. 

Boil the skate, drain and place it on a silver dish, surround it with 
a border of fried parsley, and pour over it some well-seasoned nut- 
brown butter (No. 93). 

533. SKATE, FRIED A L'lTALIENNE. 

Bread-crumb and fry the fish as directed for fried skate ; when done, 
place it on a dish, [tour uuder it a good browu Italian sauce (No. 12), 
and serve. 



SKATE WHITEBAIT. 183 

534. SKATE, WITH FNE-HEEBS, AU GEATIN. 

Butter a baking-dish or sauta-pan, and after first turning the pieces 
of skate round, lay them neatly in the dish, strew over them some 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, and a very little shalot ; season with 
pepper and salt, and moisten with two glasses of Sherry and a spoonful 
of consomme; then shake some fine browned bread-crumbs or rasp- 
ings over the whole, and set it in the oven to bake ; when done, place 
the pieces of skate on the dish, in the same position which they occu- 
pied on the baking-dish ; reduce the liquor they have been baked in, 
and add to it some Espagnole or brown Italian sauce, mix therewith a 
small piece of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon-juice ; 
pour the sauce round the fish ; shake some fresh raspings over the 
whole, and then set the dish (if it be silver) on the stove to gratinale 
or consolidate the sauce and fish, for a minute or two ; pass the red- 
hot salamander over it, and send to table. 

535. CRIMPED SKATE, A LA PASCALINE. 

Turn the pieces of skate round in the usual manner, boil, drain, 
and dish them up ; then pour over the fish a well-seasoned sauce d la 
Pascaline (No. 15) made rather piquante ; garnish round with glazed 
croutons of fried bread, on which should be placed a ueatly-trimmed 
piece of the liver, and send to table. 

536. SKATE, A LA ROYALE. 

Boil the skate till it is half done, drain it, and after allowing it to 
cool, cut it into pieces about two inches long, place these in a basin 
and marinade them in oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Twenty minutes 
before dinner, drain the pieces of skate on a napkin, and then having 
first dipped each piece separately in some frying batter prepared for 
the purpose, fry them of a fine color in plenty of hogs'-lard, heated 
for the purpose ; dish the skate up in a pyramidal form, sauce round 
with Havigotte or Poivrade sauce, garnish the dish with alternate 
groups of fried parsley and pieces of the liver, and serve. 

537. WHITEBAIT. 

This very delicious fish is in season during the months of June, 
July, and August : it is then eaten in the greatest perfection at 
Greenwich and Blackwall. Owing to the extreme delicacy of this 
fish, and its very fragile nature, it cannot be conveyed any distance 
during the season, without injuring its quality, neither can it be kept 
many hours after it has been taken. 

The following is the best method of preparing whitebait for the table. 

Drain the fish on a clean napkin, thoroughly absorbing all the 
water ; then roll them in flour, and afterward drop them into some 
heated frying fat : as soon as they become crisp, drain them on a sieve, 
and after drying them for a minute or two before the fire, sprinkle on 
them a little salt, dish them on a napkin, and -send to table accom- 
panied by plates of white and brown bread and butter, and quarters 
of lemon, — to be handed round, with cayenne pepper. 

538. SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 
Opex a sufficient quantity of oysters for the purpose, and put them 



184 REMOVES OF BEEF. 

in a stewpan on the fire to blanch or parboil ; after boiling for a few 
minutes, drain them on a sieve, reserving their liquor to make the 
sauce with ; immerse the oysters in cold water so as to wash off any 
scum or surf that may adhere to them ; take away the beard and 
gristly substance, and place the oysters thus prepared on a plate, 
while the sauce is being made in manner following : Into a small 
stewpan put two ounces of fresh butter, one tablespoonful of flour, a 
very little pepper, and salt ; with a wooden spoon mix the whole 
thoroughly, moisten with the oyster liquor and half a pint of cream, 
add a small piece of glaze, and then stir the sauce on the fire till it 
boils; keep stirring this for about ten minutes, by which time it will 
be sufficiently reduced to admit of the oysters being added to it ; then 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, mix the whole well together, and 
after putting the oysters in the silver scollop-shells, (or, clean scoured 
oyster-shells will do,) cover them with fried bread-crumbs. About 
ten minutes before serving, place them in the oven till they are 
sufficiently hot to send to table, dish them on a napkin, and serve. 

538a. SCOLLOPED OYSTERS ANOTHER WAY. 

The oysters being prepared as set forth in »the foregoing recipe, 
first boil down their liquor to a fourth part of its original quantity, 
add thereto half a pint of white sauce, the yelks of two eggs, a little 
grated nutmeg, c|yenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovies and a similar quantity of Harvey 
sauce ; and, after stirring the whole over the fire for five minutes, the 
oysters should be mixed in, and then, after being placed neatly in the 
shells, — finished as directed in the preceding article. 

Scolloped muscles, cockles, shrimps, lobsters, or crayfish, may be 
prepared in like manner ; a little essence of anchovies should however 
be added to the sauce for all these — except muscles and cockles ; and 
for lobsters, the coral should be added also. 



REMOVES OF BEEP, 



COMPRISING 



Braized Roll of Beef, r? In Flamande. Braized Roll of Beef, d la d'Orlians. 

„ a In f'rintanie're. „ „ d la Milanaiee. 

„ d la PuloiKiixe. ,, „ d la Richelieu. 

„ d F Allemunde. „ „ d la Dauphinoise. 

„ d la Rot/ale. „ „ garnished with glazed 

,, (i In Wxndtor. roots. 

„ d la Claremont. Brnized rump of Beef. 

539. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Take a piece of sirloin of beef, well covered with fat, weighing 
about twenty pounds ; bone it, leaving the fillet adhering to the 
upper part; daube or interlard the fillet in a slanting position, by 
inserting with a large daubing needle some pieces of ham or bacon 
about a quarter of an inch square and four inches long ; then roll the 
beef up close, and fasten it round with a string so as to secure its 
shape. Break up the bones aud place them with the trimmings at 



BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF. 



185 



the bottom, of a braizing pan ; then place the roll of beef on the bones, 
and garnish with four carrots, four onions, with a clove stuck in each, 
four heads of celery, and a fagot of parsley with thyme and a bay-leaf, 
and two blades of mace ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry and 
two glasses of brandy ; set the whole on the stove to simmer for 
about ten minutes, then add a sufficient quantity of good stock or 
consomme, nearly to cover the beef; place thereon a well-buttered paper, 
and, after having caused it to boil, set the braizing pan to continue 
gently boiling on a smothered stove for about five or six hours : the 
time for this must be regulated by the degree of tenderness of the 
meat. When the beef is done, drain, trim, and put it into a conve- 
nient-sized pan, containing a little of the liquor in which it has been 
braized ; and with a portion of the remaining part, work some brown 
sauce for the remove ; boil the rest down, and with this glaze the beef. 
Place it on a dish, garnish round with alternate groups of turned and 
glazed carrots and turnips, glazed onions, and Brussels-sprouts ; pour 
the sauce above alluded to round the dish, glaze the beef, and send to 
table. 

540. BRAIZED BEEF, A LA PRUSTTANIERE. 




Prepare and braize a piece of sirloin of beef, according to the 
foregoing directions ; dish it up, and place round it groups of young 
carrots (turned in their own shape and glazed in the usual manner), 
asparagus-heads, small buds of cauliflowers, and French-beans, cut in 
the shape of diamonds, and boiled green ; round the dish place a border 
of turnips cut in the form of deep saucers, and filled with green peas ; 
pour some bright Espagnole sauce (No. 3) round the remove, glaze 
the beef, and stick on it five or seven ornamental silver skewers, all of 
them garnished with carrots, turnips, &c, similar to the centre-skewer 
in the above wood-cut, and send to table. 

541. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA POLONAISE. 

Braize the roll of beef as in the previous cases, mask it with some 
glaze in which beet-root juice has been mixed ; dish the beef up on 



186 REMOVES OF BEEF. 

a bed of braized red cabbage (No. 163), garnish round with alternate 
groups of glazed small onions, and thoroughly well-boiled beet-root cut 
into the shape of small pears or half-moons, and glazed ; pour some 
Poivrade sauce (No. 29) round the remove, and serve. 

542. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A l'ALLEMANDE. 

Bratze the beef in the usual manner, garnish it round with stewed 
sauer-kraut (No. 165), round which place a border of potatoes cut in 
the shape of large olives, and fried of a fine light color in butter ; sauce 
round with Poivrade or brown sauce, and send to table. 

543. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA ROYALE. 

Prepare and braize the roll of beef, as directed for dressing the 
beef d la Flamande ; after trimming and glazing the roll, place it on 
a dish, and sauce it round with a rich ragout d la Financiere (No. 188) ; 
garnish round with a border of larded lambs' sweet-breads and whole 
truffles, placed alternately round the dish, and ornament the roll of 
beef by inserting six silver attelets or skewers garnished as follows: — 
First run the point of a skewer through a large double cock's-comb, 
then a large mushroom, a fine truffle, and lastly, a fine crayfish ; use 
them as directed to ornament the roll of beef, and send to table 

544. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA WINDSOR. 

Braize the roll of beef perfectly tender, trim, glaze, and place it 
ou a dish ; garnish round with alternate groups of stewed peas, and 
potatoes — turned in the shape of large olives, and fried of a fine light 
color in butter. Clarify and reduce the braize in which the beef 
has been done, and with it sauce the beef round, reserving part to be 
sent to table in a sauce-boat, to be handed round with the beef 

545. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA CLAREMONT. 

Procure about eighteen pounds of sirloin of beef, cut square from 
the centre ; bone and trim it, and then proceed to daube* the fillet and 
upper part of the beef with tongue and the fillets of a pheasant, cut into 
lengths of about four inches, and a quarter of an inch square in thick- 
ness ; roll the beef and secure its shape with string, place it in a 
braizing-pan with the bones broken small, and the trimmings, three 
carrots, four onions, celery, a garnished fagot of parsley and green 
onions, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with half a 
bottle of Sherry, and two glasses of brandy, and set the whole to 
simmer on the stove- fire for about ten minutes; then add sufficient 
broth from the stock-pot to nearly cover the beef, place a well- 
buttered paper on it, cover the pan with its lid, and set the beef to 
boil gently on a slow fire for about five hours — taking care that, when 
the liquor has become somewhat reduced in quantity by boiling, 
the beef should be frequently moistened on the exposed surface, by 
being basted with the braize. When the beef is done, drain, trim, 
glaze, and place it on a dish ; pour round it a ragout d la Claremont, 
consisting of a brown sauce, mixed with one-fourth part of brown 
puree of onions and some thin scollops of truffles, mushrooms, and rod 

* To daube, is to lard or garnish the inner part of fowls, or any joints of meat, by in- 
serting long strips of ham, bacon, &c, with the aid of a larding-pin. 



BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF. 187 

tongue, the whole to be cut out with a round cutter, about the size of 
half-a-erown piece ; ornament the centre of the surface of the beef with 
fillets of rabbits conlises with tongue and truffle, turned round into the 
shape of palm leaves, and simmered iu a little fresh butter for the 
purpose ; at each corner insert a silver skewer garnished with a large 
coek's-comb, a decorated quenelle, and a thick scollop of red tongue ; 
place a border of decorated quenelles and large crayfish round the edge 
of the dish, and send to table. 

546. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA D'ORLEANS. 

Prepare, braize, and trim the beef as in the foregoiug case ; 
thoroughly absorb the oily matter from the surface of the fat, and 
cover it all over with the following preparation : — 

Take two dozen very green pickled gherkins, chop them very fine aud 
put them into a small stewpan ; stir them over a quick fire till their 
moisture be entirely absorbed by the heat, then take the stewpan off 
the fire, and after allowing the contents to cool, add the yelks of three 
eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix well together, and use as paste, 
as directed, for the purpose of covering the entire surface of the beef 
with a coating about a quarter of an inch thick ; smooth it over with 
the blade of a knife dipped in hot water; decorate the centre aud ends 
of the roll of beef with carrots and turnips, French-beans and asparagus- 
heads,' cut and prepared for the purpose, in fancy designs, by placing, 
fur instance, young carrots and turnips cut in the shape of a crescent, 
alternately side by side so as to form a circle, and in its centre a group 
of heads of asparagus boiled green, and again round this a border of 
large marrow-fat peas boiled green ; at each end place a row of small 
carrots and turnips in the shape of small olives, while round the roll 
of beef thus decorated pour a well-made Poivrade sauce (No. 29), 
garnish round with a border of potato croquettes fried of a light color 
(made in the form of pears, with a stalk of parsley stuck in the point, 
to resemble the stalk of a pear) ; glaze the decoration of vegetables 
slightly with a paste-brush dipped in some thin glaze, so as not to 
disturb the order of their arrangement, and send to table. 

547. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA MILANAISE. 

Bone and trim about twenty pounds of the prime cut from the 
centre of a well-covered sirloin of beef; daube the under and upper 
fillets with ham, season with a little chopped green thyme and wiuter- 
savory, minionette, pepper and salt ; roll the beef up tight, and secure 
its shape with string, place it with the trimmings and usual accessories 
recommended in the foregoing cases, in a braizing pan ; moisten with 
a bottle of red wine and two glasses of brandy, and set the whole to 
simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes ; then add 
a sufficient quantity of good stock, to reach rather better than half way 
up the beef; place thereon a well-buttered paper, cover with the lid 
of the pan, and set the whole to braize gently for about five hours — 
taking care frequently to baste the beef with its liquor. When the 
beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze it — first straining off the braize, 
and divesting it of every particle of grease; then clarify, and afterward 
reduce it to the consistency of thin glaze, to which add half a pot of 
red-currant jelly, a glass or two of Malaga or fine old Madeira. Dish 



188 REMOVES OF BEEF. 

up the roll of beef, pour this sauce over it, at each end garnish with 
macaroni dressed with Parmesan cheese, and at the flanks of the dish 
place groups of Raviolis (No. 375) prepared for the purpose, and 
send to table. 

548. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA RICHELIEU. 

Braize the roll of beef in exactly the same manner as directed for 
beef d la Flamande (No. 539) ; when done, drain, trim, glaze, and 
dish it up ; garnish it round with glazed onions, and round the outer 
circle of the well of the dish, place a border of quenelles of pheasant 
(previously mixed with a little Soubise sauce), which, after being first 
poached in the usual manner, are to be bread-crumbed and fried of a 
light color ; then sauce lightly with the essence in which the beef has 
been braized (clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half glaze 
for the purpose). Send some of the essence separately in a sauce-boat, 
and serve. 

549. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

For this purpose, the roll of beef should be braized sufficiently tender 
to enable it to be cut with a spoon ; it should be allowed to cool in 
its own liquor, and when nearly cold, drained out carefully on to a 
dish, trimmed and placed on a deep baking-dish, and then covered 
over entirely with a coating of thick Soubise sauce, thickened with four 
yelks of eggs : when the sauce has become firmly set on the beef by 
getting cold, egg it over, and bread-crumb it twice ; sprinkle a little 
clarified butter over the surface of the beef ; and about half an hour 
before serving the dinner, set the beef thus prepared in a very hot 
oven, that it may be baked of a fine light color ; place it on its dish, 
sauce it round with a brown Italian sauce (No. 12), and garnish it 
with a border of tomatas prepared au gratin (No. 11 GO), and send to 
table 

550. BRAIZED ROLL OF BEEF, GARNISHED WITH GLAZED ROOTS. 

Braize, trim, glaze, and dish the roll of beef up as directed for 
Beef d la Flamande ; garnish it round with young carrots, turnips, 
and onions, turned and stewed in the usual manner, and placed in 
alternate groups ; sauce the beef with some Espagnole or Foicrade 
sauce, and send to table. 

551. BRAIZED RUMP OF BEEF. 

This piece of beef is considered to be the best for braizing, and 
should be chosen of fine quality for this purpose : rich grained, of a 
deep bright-red color, and well covered with a thick coating of delicate- 
looking fat. Bone the beef, and, after having trimmed it, secure its 
shape with a string, and braize it as directed for braized rolls of beef, 
following those instructions, according to the manner in which the 
rump of beef is intended to be dressed ; as, for instance, d la Flamdiulc, 
a la Frintaniere, &c, &c. t &c. 



189 



BRAIZED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF, 



COMPRISING 



Fillet of beef, d la Napolitaine. 
„ a la Macedo'ne. 

„ d la Jardiniere. 

„' •with Ghevreuil sauce. 
„ d V Allemande. 

,, au Madire. 



Fillet of Beef, d la Milanaise. 
„ d V Anglaise. 

„ d la Nivernaise. 

„ d la Royale. 

„ d la Parieilnne. 

„ d la Provenqale. 



552. FILLET OF BEEF, A LA NAPOLITAINE. 




Procure a whole fillet of beef, and, with a thin-bladed knife, pare 
off the sinewy skin which covers it, lard it closely in the usual manner, 
and prepare it for braizing, as follows: — First, place the trimmings in 
a narrow oblong braiziug-pan on the drainer, then put in the fillet and 
garnish it round with carrot, celery, a couple of onions with two 
■ •loves stuck in each, a fagot of parsley and green onions garnished 
with thyme and bay-leaf, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a 
bottle of light white wine, cover the whole with a well-buttered paper, 
put the lid on the pan, and set the fillet to boil gently on a slow fire, 
with live embers on the lid, basting the fillet frequently with its own 
liquor while braizing, which will require about two hours. Toward 
the latter part of the time, glaze the larding with some thin, light- 
colored glaze, and set the fillet in the oven to dry the larding, taking 
i-are that it does not burn, or get too much colored. In the mean 
time, strain off the braize, divest it of every particle of grease, and 
clarify it ; reduce it to one-third of its original quantity, and then add 
a spoonful of good Espagnole sauce (No. 3), two chopped shalots, half 
a pot of red-currant jelly, and a spoonful of grated horse-radish ; set 
the whole to boil on the stove-fire for five minutes, after which pass 



190 REMOVES OF BEEF 

the sance through a tamray into a bain-marie. When about to serve 
the dinner, place the fillet on a dish, and surround it with groups of 
macaroni dressed with cheese, in the usual manner, some ravioli* 
(No. 375), tossed in a little glaze, and some sultana raisins stewed 
for ten minutes in a little white wine ; glaze the beef over, pour the 
sauce round the fillet, on which, at each end, and at the centre, with 
an ornamental skewer, fix a turnip, cut in the shape of a cup, (par- 
boiled in salt and water colored with cochineal), and filled with 
grated horse-radish, and send to table ; observing that some of the 
sauce should be sent in a sauce-boat separately. 

553. FILLET OF BEEF, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Trim, lard, and prepare a fillet of beef according to the first part of 
the preceding instructions ; moisten it with two ladlefuls of good stock, 
and proceed to braize the fillet in exactly the same manner ; when 
done, glaze and dish it up. Garnish it round with groups of carrots, 
turnips, French-beans, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower — the 
carrots and turnips to be turned or cut into the shape of small olives, 
or cloves of garlic, the French-beans in the shape of diamonds ; and 
observe that each kind of vegetable should be separately prepared and 
tossed in a little Bechamel or AUemande sauce, previously to bein^ 
placed round the fillet of beef. Sauce round the fillet with the clari- 
fied and reduced braize in which it has been done, glaze the fillet, and 
send to table. 

554. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA JARDINIERE. 
Braize a larded fillet of beef according to the foregoing instructions, 
and when done, glaze and place it on its dish ; garnish it round with 
alternate groups of turned carrots and turnips, to which give the shape 
of olives, round balls, diamonds, small half-moons, or any other suitable 
fancy shape — all which must be previously boiled in broth, with a grain 
of salt, a little sugar, and a small piece of butter. Intermixed with 
these, place also some groups of green-peas, French-beans cut in dia- 
monds, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower. Sauce the fillet of 
beef round with bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the 
essence in which the fillet has been braized (previously clarified and 
reduced for this purpose), glaze the fillet and send to table. 

555. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, DRESSED AS CHEVREUIL. 
(ROEBUCK.) 

Procure part or a whole fillet of beef, as occasion may require, 
remove the sinewy skin which covers the fat side, trim it neatly, and 
lard it closely ; then lay the fillet for a day or so to steep or pickle in 
a pan containing a sufficient quantity of cold marinade (No. 234), pre- 
pared for the purpose. Next, when the fillet has become saturated 
with the marinade, drain it, and prepare it for braizing exactly in the 
same manner as in any one of the preceding cases ; moisten with a 
bottle of Sherry, and braize the fillet of beef in the usual way ; when 
it is done, glaze it well, and place it on its dish. Garnish it round 
with potatoes turned in the shape of large olives, and fried of a line 
light color in clarified butter; sauce the fillet round with a well-made 
( '/iri-rruil sauce (No. 69), with the addition of half the essenee in which 
the beef has been braized, and which, as usual, has been previously 



FILLETS OF BEEF. 191 

clarified and reduced to half glaze for the purpose ; glaze the larding 
and send to table. If preferred, the fillet may be roasted instead of 
braized. 

556. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Prepare a fillet of beef in every respect according to the foregoing 
directions, when done, glaze and dish it up ; garnish it round with 
stewed saner-kraut (No. 165), sauce it with Poivrade or E*pagnole 
sauce, and send to table. 

The fillet of beef a VAllemande may also be garnished with stewed 
prunes, quenelles of potatoes (No. 312), and sauced round with German 
sweet sauce (No. 61). 

557. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Lard a fillet of beef, prepare it for braizing in the usual manner, 
moisten it with a bottle of good Madeira, and then set the fillet to braize 
gently on a slow fire ; keep basting it frequently with its own liquor, 
and when done, gfaze it and place it on its dish. Garnish it round 
with a Jardiniere (No. 143), a Macedoine (No. 144), or some nicely- 
fried potatoes ; clarify the whole of the liquor in which the fillet has 
been braized, reduce it to the consistency of half glaze, and use it for 
the purpose of saucing the fillet, and send to table. 

558. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA MILANAISE. 
Braize a larded fillet of beef in an oval braizing-pan garnished with 
the usual quantity of vegetables, &c. ; moisten with a bottle of Sherry 
or Malaga ; when the beef is done, glaze and dish it up, and garnish it 
round with macaroni prepared as follows : — Boil three-quarters of a 
pound of macaroni, cut it into two-inch lengths, and put it into a stew- 
pan containing some scollops of mushrooms, truffles, tongue, and the 
fillets of one fowl ; to these add a ragout-spoonful of Bechamel sauce 
(No. 5), four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat of butter ; 
season with a little grated nutmeg and minionette pepper, toss the 
whole well together over the fire until well mixed, and use it as di- 
rected. Sauce the fillet round with the essence (clarified in the usual 
manner), and send the remainder to table in a sauce-boat, to be handed 
round with the fillet of beef. 

559. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Procure a good thick fillet of beef, trim and lard it in the usual man- 
ner, place it in a large earthen dish, strew over it carrot and onion cut 
into thin slices, thyme, bay-leaf, and branches of parsley, some thin 
slices of the pulp of a lemon, and a little minionette pepper ; pour 
about a gill of salad-oil over the whole, and allow the fillet of beef to 
steep in this marinade for several hours — taking care to turn it over 
occasionally, so that it may absorb a portion of the oil impregnated 
with the flavor of the various ingredients contained in this kind of 
marinade. 

About an hour and a half before dinner, remove every particle of 
vegetable from the fillet of beef, run a strong-made iron skewer through 
it lengthwise, fasten it on the spit by tying it with string at each end, 
and then put it down to the fire to roast — basting it frequently ; take 
care that the fire is not too fierce, as in that case the larding will be 



192 REMOVES OF BEEF. 

scorched, which would spoil not only its appearance, but also injure 
the flavor. Toward the last five minutes of the fillet's roasting, and 
before it is taken up from the fire, glaze over the larding with some thin 
light-colored glaze, twice or thrice, take it off the spit, and dish it up ; 
garnish it round with small turned potatoes, fried in clarified butter, 
placing at each end a bouquet of scraped horse-radish ; pour a bright 
Financiere sauce round it (Xo. 8), glaze the fillet over afresh and send 
to table. 

560. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA NIVERNAISE. 

Braize a larded fillet of beef according to the instructions given for 
the fillet of beef d la Macedoine (Xo. 553) ; when done, glaze it 
brightly, dish it up and garnish it round with a Nivernaise (No. 137), 
and send to table. 

561. BRAIZED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA ROYALE. 

Closely lard a thick fillet of beef, daube or interlard it with small 
square fillets of lean ham, fat bacon, and truffles; prepare it for braizing 
with the trimmings and the usual quantity of vegetables, &c, one or 
two carcasses of game, and moisten with a bottle of Madeira. Set the 
fillet to simmer gently on a slow fire in the usual way, carefully basting 
it occasionally with its liquor ; when done, glaze it brightly, and after- 
ward dish it up ; strain off the braize, clarify and reduce it, then add it 
'o a Financiere ragout (No. 188), with which garnish the fillet of beef ; 
place round it a border of large crayfish, whole truffles, and cock's- 
conibs, and send to table. 

562. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA PARISIEXXE. 

Roast a larded fillet of beef according to directions given for the 
fillet of beef a VAnglaise (Xo. 559); when done, dish it up, and sur- 
round it with alternate groups of green peas, and crayfish tails (tossed 
in a little glaze and lobster coral butter, to make them of a bright 
scarlet) ; sauce the fillet round with a rich Financiere sauce (Xo. 8), 
finished with some cravfish butter, and a little lemon-juice, and send to 
table. 

563. ROASTED FILLET OF BEEF, A LA PROVEXCALE. 

Steep a larded fillet of beef in the marinade as directed for the fillet 
of beef d VAnglaise, adding to the ingredients therein mentioned, four 
cloves of garlic and the pulp of an extra lemon ; allow the fillet suffi- 
cient time to become thoroughly saturated with the marinade; roast 
it off, as before directed, glaze and dish it up, garnish it round with 
tomatas au gratin (Xo. 1160), and pour round it some sauce a laPro- 
vencale (Xo. 25), for making which, use the marinade iu which the 
fillet of beef has been pickled. 

Note. — Fillets of beef may also be dressed plain, that is, without 
being larded, as some dislike the mixture of fat bacon with beef. In 
all other particulars, the directions for dressing braized rumps, rolls 
or larded fillets of beef, are to be followed when dressing fillets plain. 
For purposes of economy, the fillet of beef should be thus prepared for 
braizing: trim the fillet as if intended to be larded, and then cover 
the upper or smooth part with layers of beef-suet prepared for the 



BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS. 193 

purpose, by taking some large pieces of suet and placing them between 
a wet cloth, and with the cutlet-bat flatten them until they do not 
exceed half an inch in thickness ; fasten the layers on the fillet with 
string, and for braizing the fillet, follow the directions given in the 
foregoing dishes. 



BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, EDGEBONES, 
ROUNDS, AND RIBS OP BEEF, 

COMPRISING 

Boiled Brisket of Beef, d I'Anglaise. Ribs of Beef, d la Chasseur. 

„ „ d V Eco.rlate. „ d la Piemoutaise. 

Stewed Brisket of Beef, d la Flamande. „ d la Mode. 

Edgebone of Beef, d I'Anglaise. „ d la Bourgeoise. 

Bound of Beef, d I'Anglaise. „ au Madiere. 

,, d la Chasseur. „ d la Baden. 

564. BOILED BRISKET OF BEEF, A LANGLAISE. 

Procure a piece of brisket of beef, well covered with fat, and 
which has been in salt about a week or ten days ; wash the beef in 
cold water, and then place it on a drainer in a large oval braizing- 
pau ; garnish with three carrots, two large onions with two cloves stuck 
in each, and two heads of celery; pour in sufficient cold water to fill 
the pan nearly, and set it to boil on the fire. As the scum rises to 
the surface, take it off with a spoon, and when the beef has been 
thoroughly skimmed, set the pan down by the side of the stove, to 
continue gently boiling for about four or five hours — according to the 
size and weight of the brisket ; when the beef is done, take it up on 
to an earthenware dish, trim, glaze, and then dish it Up ; garnish it 
round with plain boiled turnips and carrots, that have been neatly cut 
into the shape of pears, eggs, or small fluted leaflike shapes ; at each 
end place a group of small suet dumplings, pour some gravy under 
the beef, and send to table. Some Piquante sauce (No. 18), lightly 
seasoned, should be served in a sauce-boat, to be handed round with 
the beef. 

565. BOILED BRISKET OF BEEF, A L'ECARLATE. 

The brisket of beef, a VEcarlate, should be prepared according to 
the foregoing instructions, in every respect — except the salting or 
curing operation, which must be thus effected: 

To six pounds of common salt, add four onces of saltpetre, half a 
pound of moist sugar, some bruised bay-leaves, thyme, winter-savory, 
and sweet-marjoram, a dozen cloves, and a few blades of mace : with 
this mixture rub the piece of brisket of beef for a few minutes every 
day — for four or five days running ; after which, merely turn it over 
in the brine once a day, for the succeeding five days — altogether 
making up ten days for salting the beef. The brisket of beef is then 
ready for use — provided it is to be eaten while hot ; but if intended 
to be eaten cold, the beef should remain iu the brine at least a fort- 
12 



194 REMOVES OF BEEF. 

night, by which time only it can be expected to have sufficiently 
absorbed the flavor of the herbs and spices. 

The foregoing instructions apply equally to every kind of salted meat. 

566. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Pare off the breast-bone and rough parts adhering to a well-covered 
piecj of fresh brisket of beef ; place it on the drainer of a large 
braizing-pan, garnish with carrots, onions, celery, fagot of parsley, 
green onions, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and two blades of mace ; 
moisten with sufficient good broth (from the boiling stock) to cover 
the beef. Set the pan to boil gently for about five hours ; when done, 
drain the, brisket on a dish, trim and place it on a baking-sheet, pour 
a little broth under it, glaze it well and put it in the oven to dry, and 
glaze it again ; then place the brisket of beef on its dish, garnish it 
round with alternate groups of turned carrots and turnips (boiled 
down with consomme and a little sugar), Brussels-sprouts, and glazed 
onions ; sauce the beef round with a well-finished E*pagnole or Poivrade 
sauce, and send to table. 

Briskets of beef prepared in the foregoing' manner, may also be 
sent to table in every variety of method described for the preparation 
of rolls of beef, as wells as rumps and fillets — in their various forms. 

567. EDGEBONE OF BEEF, A LANGLAISE. 

Procure a fine edgebone of beef well-covered with rich and delicate- 
looking fat; take out the kernels, and salt it in the usual manner, by 
merely rubbing the salt well into the meat ; repeat this operation 
every morning during four days, and then be careful that the beef is 
turned over in its brine every morning for seven successive days : by 
this time the edgebone of beef will be ready for use. Next, put it on 
in cold water, with a couple of carrots and turnips in the pot, and set 
it to boil gently for about four hours : when done, drain it, trim off 
the soiled parts of the fat, dish it up, and surround it with alternate 
groups of well-turned carrots, turnips, summer cabbages, and small 
suet dumplings ; pour gravy under the beef, and send to table. 

568. BOILED ROUND OF BEEF, A LANGLAISE. 

Follow the foregoing directions in every particular — (observing 
that a round of beef should remain ten days in the brine, and that the 
time it will reqnire for boiling must necessarily vary, according to the 
weight of meat)'; in fact, dress the round of beef according to the 
old English manner, garnishing it with the same sort of vegetables as 
directed to be used for the edgebone, and send it to table with some 
lightly-seasoned Piquanle sauce, separately in a sauce-boat. 

569. BOILED ROUND OF BEEF, A LA CHASSEUR, OR " HUNTING 

BEEF."* 

Cure a round of beef according to the directions given for salt- 

* The apparently large quantity of ale required to dress a round of beef in th ; s fashion 
seems at first sight preposterously extravagant ; but it should be borne in mind that this, 
like others of the more expensive kind of dishes which arc supposed to be indulged in 
only by the wealthy, is in point of fact not so extravagant as it appears : inasmuch as 
that the liquor in which the spiced beef has been boiled, serves to ameliorate the Mup 
which is now so bountifully supplied twice a week to the poor of the adjacent parishes, 
by the generous owners of the noble mansions throughout the laud. 



BOILED AND STEWED BEEF. 195 

ing a brisket a VEcarlate ; it will require a fortnight or three weeks 
thoroughly to impregnate the beef with the flavor of the herbs, spices, 
&c. When the round of beef is sufficiently salted, put it on to boil 
in home-brewed ale ; as soon as it is done, dish it up with carrots, 
turnips, baked Spanish onions, summer-cabbages, or Brussels-sprouts, 
and small suet dumplings — the whole of these to be placed in groups 
round the beef ; pour some gravy under it, and send to table. 
Rounds of beef prepared in the foregoing manner -are more fre- 
quently sent to table cold, — for breakfast and luncheon ; especially 
at Christmas time, when they are considered a desirable feature on the 
sideboard. 

570. STEWED EIBS OF BEEF, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Procure three or four small ribs of beef well covered with fat, saw 
off the spine bone close up to the rib-bones, and with the saw shorten 
the rib-bones to about ten inches ; then daube or interlard the lean 
right through with fillets of fat bacon or ham, a quarter of an inch 
square — seasoned with prepared herb-seasoning (No. 1250). Next, 
cure the ribs of beef, as described for the preparation of the hunting- 
beef, and when it is ready, wash the brine off in cold water, place the 
ribs of beef in a braizing-pan on a drainer, garnish with the bruised 
carcasses of any sort of game, four carrots, four onions, three heads of 
celery, and a well-garnished fagot, moisten with half a bottle of 
Sherry,' and sufficient broth to cover the beef. Set the pan on the fire 
to continue gently boiling for about four hours : when the beef is done, 
drain, trim, and glaze it, put it in the oven to dry the surface, and 
glaze it again ; then dish it up, garnish it round with glazed Spanish 
onions, and carrots — turned in the shape of pears ; sauce the ribs 
of beef round with a well-finished Madeira sauce (No. 8), and send to 
table. 

It is usual to dress ribs of beef in this manner to be eaten cold ; — 
for this purpose it is necessary to allow them to cool in their own 
braize, by which means they are materially benefitted, as they absorb a 
considerable proportion of the essence — thereby acquiring both flavor 
and delicacy. When the ribs of beef are cold, take them out of their 
braize, trim, glaze, and dish them up ; surround them with a border of 
bright aspic-jelly (to be made from the liquor in which the meat has 
been braized), and send to table. 

571. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA PIEMONTAISE. 

Trim and do,ube with ham and truffles three small ribs of fresh beef; 
prepare them for braizing with the trimmings, three carrots, three 
onions, two heads of celery, a garnished fagot of parsley, six cloves, 
two blades of mace, and two cloves of garlic ; moisten with a bottle 
of Sherry and a, ladleful of broth ; set the beef to boil very gently on 
a slow fire — with live embers on the lid of the pan — for about four 
hours, taking care to baste.it frequently with its own liquor ; when 
the beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze, and keep it in the hot closet 
for a few minutes ; during this time, strain off the liquor in which the 
beef has been braized, divest it of every particle of fat, clarify it, and 
then add one-half to a pound of Naples macaroni, previously boiled in 
water with a little salt and butter, for about ten minutes, and then 
drained on a sieve, cut into three-inch lengths, and put into a stewpan 



196 REMOTES OF BEEF. 

with a pinch of minionette-pepper ; then stew the macaroni for a 
quarter of an hour longer, by which time it will be done ; add a table- 
spoonful of tomata-paste, two pats of fresh butter, and six ounces of 
fresh-grated Parmesan cheese ; toss the whole well together over the 
fire, and place the ribs of beef on their dish ; surround them with the 
macaroni thus prepared, glaze the beef afresh, pour into a sauce-boat 
the remaining half of the clarified braize reduced nearly to the con- 
sistency of half glaze, and send to table. 

572. SMALL RIBS OF BEEF, A LA MODE. 

Prepare the ribs of beef for braizing according to the foregoing 
instruction, moisten with half a bottle of Sherry or Madeira and 
two wine-glassesful of brandy ; then set the pan containing the ribs of 
beef on the stove-fire to simmer for about a quarter of an hour ; after 
which add two ladlefuls of good consomme, cover the whole with a 
buttered paper and the lid, and set the pan again on the fire to 
continue gently simmering for three or four hours — according to 
the weight or size of the piece of beef. When done, drain and trim 
it, place it in a sauta-pan with a little of its own liquor, put it in the 
oven to dry for a minute or two — previously to glazing it ; unless, in- 
deed, it has been already glazed during the latter part of the braizing, 
which is the better method — frequent basting with its own liquor 
imparting additional flavor; when glazed, dish the ribs of beef up, 
and garnish them round with groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and 
onions ; sauce round with the essence in which the beef has been 
braized, clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half-glaze for 
the purpose, and send to table. 

573. SMALL RIBS OF BEEF, A LA BOURGEOISE. 

Trim three small ribs of beef, daube and prepare them for braizing, 
with their trimmings and the usual complement of vegetables, &c. ; 
moisten with two large ladlefuls of good broth ; set the beef to boil 
very gently on a slow fire till done, which will require about four hours 
and a half, if the piece of beef be small ; taking care to turn it over in 
its braize occasionally ; when the ribs are done, drain, trim, and glaze 
them ; dish them up with a border of glazed carrots, onions, turuip>. 
Brussels-sprouts or stewed cahbages, round them ; pour the essence on 
them, and serve. 

574. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Prepare the ribs of beef for braizing in the usual manner, moisten 
with half a bottle of Madeira and a ladleful of good consomme ; braize 
the beef gently for about four or five hours ; when done, trim, glaze, 
and dish it up with alternate groups of fried potatoes in the shape of 
large olives, and any green vegetables the time of year may afford : 
use the clarified braize, reduced to an essence, as sauce, and send to 
table. 

575. BRAIZED RIBS OF BEEF, A LA BADEN. 

Trim and daube three small ribs of beef with some fillets of lean 
ham and fat bacon ; place tham in an oval braizing-pan, garnish with 
six shalots, a grated stick of horseradish, and a garnished fagot of 
parsley and green onions ; moisten with a bottle of Rhenish wine 



FILLETS OF VEAL. 197 

and a single ladleful of good strong broth, braize the beef gently on a 
slow fire, with live embers on the lid of the pan, taking care to baste 
the beef frequently with its own liquor ; when done, glaze and dish it 
up ; strain the braize through a silk sieve into a stewpan, take off all 
the fat, add a small pot of red-currant jelly, the grated rind of two 
oranges, and the juice of four ; reduce the whole to the consistency of 
sauce, pour it round the beef, garnish with a border of quenelles of 
pototoes (No. 312), glaze the beef afresh, and send to table. 

Braized ribs of beef may also be sent to table in a variety of other 
forms ; as, for instance, a VAnglaise, a la Milanaise, a la Macedoine, 
u la Royale, &c, for which see Braized Rolls of Beef. 



REMOVES OF VEAL, 

COMPRISING 

Roast Fillet of Veal, d VAnglaise. Cushion of Veal, d la Jnrdiniire. 

„ „ d la Macfdoine. Roast Loin of Veal, d la Monglas. 

„ „ d la Jardiniere. „ d la Danphine. 

Roast Neck of Veal, d la Grime. „ „ a la ltoyale. 

„ „ d la Montmorency. „ „ d la Financiire. 

„ „ d la Dreux. ., „ d la Grime. 

„ „ d la B'Uxelles. Breast of Veal, d VAnglaine. 

„ „ d V Ecarlate. „ d la Bourgeoise. 

„ „ d la Royale. „ d la Windsor. 

Cushion of Veal, d la St. George. „ d la Financi&re. 

„ „ d la Financilre. „ d la Romaine. 

„ „ d la 3fac6doine. „ d la Royale. 

576. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Veal, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be procured fresh 
killed, as it does not improve either in flavor or color by being kept. 
Take out the bone from a good fat fillet of veal, and with the cutlet- 
bat, flatten the udder so as to lengthen it out ; make a deep incision 
between the udder and the fillet with a knife, and fill it with about 
1 lb. of well-seasoned stuffing (No. 662) ; sew it up with small twine, 
wrap the udder tightly round the fillet, and secure its shape with 
skewers and twine ; spit the fillet in the usual manner, cover it well 
with buttered thick white paper, roast it about two hours and a half; 
just before it is done, take off the paper, and, after first shaking some 
flour over it from a dredger, baste the veal with a little fresh butter, 
and froth it; then dish it up, pour round it some light-brown sauce 
incorporated with 4 oz. of fresh butter, some essence of mushrooms, 
and a little lemon-juice, or else use No. 82 : garnish round with potato 
croquettes, and send to table. 

577. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Roast a fillet of veal according 'to the foregoing directions, glaze 
and dish it up, garnish it round with a Macedoine of such vegetables 
the season of the year may afford ; sauce round with Supreme or 
Bechamel, and send to table. 



198 REMOVES OF TEAL. 

578. ROAST FILLET OF VEAL, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Prepare the fillet of veal as before described, dish it up, and gar- 
nish jt round with groups of turned carrots and turnips, small heads 
of cauliflower, French-beans, cut into diamonds, green-peas, and as- 
paragus-heads ; sauce with half glaze, or a well-finished Espagnole 
sauce, and send to table. 

579. ROAST NECK OF VEAL, A LA CREME. 

Procure a neck of white fat veal, saw off the scrag and spine-bones, 
shorten the ribs to four inches in leugth, run a stout iron skewer 
through the neck of veal, lengthwise, and then secure it on the spit 
by tying it with string at each end ; about an hour and a quarter be- 
fore dinner, put it down to roast, baste it frequently, and about twenty 
minutes before taking the veal off the spit, baste it with some good 
Bechamel sauce, made with plenty of cream. As in course of roast- 
ing the sauce dries on the veal, keep adding a fresh coating, until a 
light-colored, delicate crust is produced all over the meat ; then take 
it off the spit with great care, in order that the crust may not be dis- 
turbed ; dish it up, pour a good cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6), under 
it, garnish it round with groups of Trench-beans cut in diamonds and 
buds of cauliflower, and send to table. 

580. BRAIZED NECK OF VEAL, A LA MONTMORENCY. 

Trim a neck of white veal, according to the directions given in the 
preceding article ; then, with a thin long-bladed knife, pare off the 
skin and sinew which cover the fillet part of the neck, leaving the ribs 
well covered ; lard the part which has been trimmed as closely and 
neatly as possible, and prepare it for braizing as follows \ 

Strew the bottom of the drainer of an oval braizing-pan with three 
carrots, three onions, two heads of celery, and a garn-ished fagot; 
cover the vegetables with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the 
neck of veal ; lay the trimmings round it, and moisten with two ladle's- 
ful of good veal stock ; put a buttered paper on the top, cover with the 
lid, upon which place live embers of charcoal, and set it to braize gently 
on a slow fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. 
When it is done, which will require about three hours, glaze it brightly, 
and dish it up ; garnish with a white ragout of small quenelles, truffles, 
mushrooms, and cocks'-combs ; then place round the ragout a border 
of lambs' sweetbreads, larded, and large quenelles of fowl, decorated 
with tongue, and send to table. 

581. NECK OF. VEAL, A LA DRETJX. 

Trim a neck of veal, daube or interlard it through the fillet with 
some truffles, tongue, and fat bacon ; "first cut these into three-inch 
lengths, by a quarter of an inch square, and then introduce them into 
the fillet part of the neck of veal, without showing through the skin 
which covers it ; it should then be braized according to the directions 
in the foregoing article, and wh*en done, glazed, and dished up. bur- 
nish with a white ragout of scollops of tongue and mushrooms, and 
round this place a border of largo crayfish, and glazed whole truffles j 
glaze the neck of veal, and send to table. 



NECK OF VEAL. 199 

582. NECK OF VEAL, -A LA D'UXELLES. 

Prepare a neck of veal in every particular the same as described in 
the foregoing article, braize it, and allow it partly to cool in its own 
stock ; drain, trim, and spread a coating of thickly-reduced d'Uxelles 
sauce (No. 16) over it; when the sauce has become set, proceed to 
bread-crumb the neck of veal in the usual manner with beaten egg and 
bread-crumbs, observing that one-fourth part of grated Parmesan 
cheese should be introduced into the bread-crumbs used for the 
purpose. Place the neck of veal on a' buttered baking-sheet, and 
three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time, put it in the oven, and 
bake it of a fine bright light-brown color : during this part of the 
process, be careful to sprinkle a little clarified fresh butter over the 
bread-crumbed surface of the veal, in order to prevent it from drying 
or burning. When the neck of veal is done, place it on a dish, garnish 
round with a Toulouse ragout (No. 187), and send to table. 

583. NECK OF VEAL, A L'ECARLATE. 

Trim and lard a neck of veal in the usual manner, mark it for 
braizing according to the instructions set forth for the preparation of 
neck of veal a la Montmorency, and braize it in a similar manner; dish 
it up, garnish it round with a border of circular scollops of tongue 
that have been glazed ; sauce round with either Supreme, Allemande, 
or Bechamel sauce, and send to table. 

584. NECK OF VEAL, A LA ROYALE. 

Trim and braize a neck of veal, and afterward let it get partially 
cool in its own braize ; drain it on an earthen dish, and mask it 
entirely with a coating of thick and well-seasoned Allemande sauce; as 
soon as the sauce has become set upon the neck of veal, bread-crumb 
it with egg and bread-crumbs, in which introduce a fourth part of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; place it on a buttered baking-dish, three- 
quarters of an hour before dinner, and put it in the oven to bake. 
When done, dish it up, garnish round with a Toulouse ragout, surround 
the whole with a border of quenelles, decorated with truffles, and large 
crayfish ; place a heart sweet-bread (decorated with pieces of the tip 
of a tongue, cut into the shape of large hob-nails, and inserted in cir- 
cular rows in the sweet-breads, previously to their being simmered iu a 
little white braize) at each end of the dish, glaze the crayfish lightly, 
and send to table. 

Kote. — Necks of veal, either braized or roasted plain, or larded and 
braized, may, in addition to the foregoing, be sent to table garnished 
with a Macedoine of vegetables, a Jardiniere, potato croquettes, mush- 
rooms, or tomatas.au gratin (iu the last two cases, the neck of veal 
must be sauced with Espagnole, Poivrade, or brown Italian sauce), a 
In Mila liaise, a la Financiere, &c.,&c. 

585. NOIX OR CUSHION OF VEAL, A LA ST. GEORGE. 

The noix, or cushion, is that part of a leg of veal to which the udder 
adheres. In order to separate it from the round, or fillet, the leg 
should be placed on the table, with the knuckle from you, then with 
the left hand, take hold of the upper part of the fillet of veal, and with 
the right insert the point of a knife into the separation which divides 



200 REMOVES OF VEAL. 

the noix, or cushion, from the under part of the fillet ; cat the noix 
away, following the separation right through, round to the knuckle, 
terminating at the left, under the udder, which must be left adhering 
to the noix. 

Pare off the sinewy parts from the noix, trim the udder without 
reducing its size, and then, with a sharp pointed-knife, make a very 
slight incision in a circular direction on the surface of the noix, round ' 
the inner edge of the udder ; next remove the outer part with a knife, 
trimming it smooth and neatly ; lard the trimmed part closely with fat 
bacon, in the usual manner, and prepare the noix for braizing as fol- 
lows : — First place at the bottom of a large fricandeau or oval stew- 
pan, on the drainer thereof, some sliced carrots, a head of celery, two 
onions, with a clove stuck in each, and a garnished fagot ; cover the 
whole with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the noix of veal ; 
surround it with the trimmings, and moisten with half a bottle of 
Sherry or Madeira, and a sufficient quantity of good stock, barely to 
reach the surface of the veal ; cover with a well-buttered white paper, 
and set it to boil on the stove; place the lid on the pan, and put it on 
a slow fire, or in the oven, to braize gently for about four hours (with 
live embers on the lid), remembering to baste the larding frequently 
with the liquor, in order to moisten the veal and glaze it of a bright 
color ; the udder should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon, to 
preserve its whiteness during the braizing. When the noix is done, 
drain and glaze it, remove the layers of bacon, and dish it up ; garnish 
it round with groups of bntton-mushrooms, small quenelles of fowl 
(colored with crayfish butter), cocks'-combs and kernels, and turned 
truffles tossed in glaze ; surround these with a border of lambs' sweet- 
breads, one-half of which should be larded, and the others, contiaes 
with tongue, placed alternately; stick four silver skewers, each gar- 
nished with a large double cocks'-comb, a large truffle, mushroom and 
crayfish, into the noix, sauce with a rich Madeira sauce (No. 8), and 
send to table. 

586. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA FINANCIERS. 

Prepare and braize a noix or cushion of veal in every respect the 
same as the foregoing ; the wine may, however, if thought proper, be 
omitted ; when the noix is done, glaze and drain it, dish it up, pour a 
rich Financiere ragout (No. 188) under it, garnish round with a 
border of quenelles and crayfish, and send to table. 

587. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Prepare the noix of veal as in the foregoing cases, dish it up. garnish 
it with a Macedoiive of carrots, turnips, green-peas, asparagus-heads 
and cauliflower-buds, tossed in some good Allemande sauce, with a 
pinch of sugar, and the glaze produced from the small carrots and 
turnips, place round these a border of small artichoke-bottoms, filled 
alternately with green-peas, small carrots, and turnips; glaze the lanled 
part of the noix, and send to table. 

588. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA JARDINIERE. 

The noix, or cushion of veal, must be first trimmed, larded, and 
braized, according to the directions given for the noix a la Financiere : 
when done, di&h it up, and garnish it round with a Jardiniere, n garnish 



LOIN AND BREAST OF VEAL. 201 

of small roots and vegetables, composed as follows : — Tarn some carrots 
and turnips in the shape of either small olives, diamonds, corks, or 
cloves of garlic, &c, and boil them separately in consomme with a very 
small piece of fresh butter, a pinch of sugar, and a grain of salt, ob- 
serving that the turnips must be kept white, and that the carrots should 
be boiled down and rolled in their glaze : prepare also some small heads 
of cauliflower, green peas, French-beans cut into diamonds, asparagus- 
heads, and small new potatoes ; place these vegetables round the noix, 
in alternate groups, sauce with an Espagnole sauce, or else with the 
essence in which the noix has been braized, — first clarified, then re- 
duced to half glaze, and added to a well-finished Espagnole sauce ; 
glaze the larded part of the noix, and send to table. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing noix, or cushions 
of veal, for the table, they may, after being first prepared and braized 
(either larded or stuck with circular rows of truffles, cut in the shape of 
large hob-nails, and inserted in the semicircular lean part of the noix), 
be served with a Napolitain, Milanese, or Chipolata ragout, with 
tomatas au gratin, potato croquettes, and sauced with Bechamel 
sauce, with stewed peas, or asparagus-peas, tossed in a little Allemande 
sauce, with a pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little nutmeg. 

589. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A L'ANGLAISE. 
Order a loin of veal to be cut without the chump end, and with 
the skirt left on ; trim it square, and placing the veal stuffing (No. 
662) in an incision made in the flap part for that purpose, wrap the 
flap, or skirt-piece, round tight, so as to secure the kidney-fat ; fasten 
it with skewers and string, cover it with two sheets of buttered paper, 
to be tied on with string, and place the loin of veal in a cradle-spit to 
roast: or a common spit may be used. If the loin of veal be of the 
usual size, weighing about 10 lbs., it will require about two hours and 
a half to roast it ; when nearly done, take off the paper, shake some 
flour over it with a dredger-box, and afterward froth it over with 4 oz. 
of fresh butter, previously put to melt in a spoon, in the dripping-pan, 
before the fire ; as soon as the veal has acquired a fine light color, 
and the butter and flour have frothed up, take it off the spit, and 
dish it up : pour some brown melted butter under it (No. 32), and 
send to table 

590. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA MONGLAS. 

Roast off a loin of veal, according to the foregoing directions: next, 
with a sharp knife, make an incision two inches deep along the sides 
and ends of the loin, and endeavor to cut out the square piece with- 
out tearing the meat, the joint resembling an oblong case. The fillet 
thai taken out, should be cut into thin round scollops, and put into a 
stewpan with an equal quantity of scollops of tongue and mushrooms : 
to these add a ragout spoonful of good Bechamel sauce, and with this 
mixture fill the loin of veal, previously put on a buttered baking- 
Bheet ; smooth the top over with the blade of a knife, and cover the 
whole with very fine bread-crumbs, fried with butter, of a light color, 
and mixed with a third part of Parmesan cheese ; sprinkle a little 
melted fresh butter over it, and set it in the oven to get hot, salamander 
it over and dish it up ; garnish with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), 
and place round a border of croquettes of veal, or sweetbread : at each 



202 EEMOVES OF VEAL. 

corner of the loin stick an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a 
large cock's-corab, mushroom, decorated quenelle, crayfish, and truffle ; 
glaze the sides of the loin of veal, and send to table. 

591. LOIN OP VEAL, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Procure a loin of very white veal, cut square, with the whole of 
the flap, or skirt, left on ; bone it entirely, taking care, at the same 
time, to divest ft of every portion of sinew ; daube or interlard the lean 
part of the fillet with small fillets of tongue, or ham : the veal must 
then be laid square on the table, and with some quenelle force-meat of 
chickens (mixed with chopped parsley and mushrooms), spread the 
whole of the inner part about an inch thick ; the kidney and fat 
should then be replaced in the centre, the loin rolled up tight, and 
its pillowlike shape be secured with small iron skewers, and fastened 
with string. Then put it in a large oval braizing-pan, on the drainer ; 
garnish with the trimmings, a couple of carrots, onions, celery, and 
garnished fagot of parsley and green onions, two blades of mace, and 
four cloves; moisten with two large ladlesful of good consomme, cover 
with ah oval of double paper, well-buttered, put the lid on, and then 
set the pan to boil on the stove-fire ; after which, put it to braize in 
the oven, or on a slow fire, with live embers on the lid ; baste the veal 
frequently with its own liquor, and when it is done, drain, trim, and 
mask it all over with a coating of the following mixture : — To six yelks 
of eggs, add 2 oz. of fresh butter, melted, and two tablespoonsful of 
Bechamel sauce, season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt, mix this well 
together, and use it as directed above. Cover the whole with very 
fine bread-crumbs, mixed with a third proportion of grated Parmesan 
cheese, sprinkle some drops of melted, or oiled butter, over it, and 
placing the loin of veal on a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven 
to bake of a light-brown color ; when done, dish it up, pour round it 
a Parisian ragout (No. 203), and garnish with a border of quenelles of 
veal, or fowl, decorated with truffles, and send to table. 

592. LOIN OF VEAL, A LA ROYALE. 

Prepare and braize a loin of veal, as directed in the preceding 
article ; when done, allow it partially to cool in its own braize, then 
strain it on the drainer of the braizing-pan, and absorb any grease 
there may be on it with a clean napkin ; cover it ail over with a 
quenelle farce of veal, mixed with a little lobster coral ; decorate the 
ends and centre with a bold design, using for the purpose some black 
truffles, in order that the decoration may show well on the scarlet 
surface. Next, place the loin of veal in a large oval braizing-pan with 
just sufficient consomme to bathe it, to the depth of an inch, cover the 
loin with very thin layers of fat bacon, or, in lieu thereof, a well- 
buttered oval covering of paper; set it in the oven, or on a moderate 
stove-fire, with live embers on the lid, to boil or simmer gently for 
about three-quarters of an hour, when it will be done. Then drain 
the veal, and divest it of the bacon or paper used to cover it ; pour 
round it a ragout of button-mnshrooms, small quenelles of fowl, cock's- 
combs and kernels ; garnish with a border of large truffles and cray- 
fish, glaze the loin of veal with thin, light-colored glaze, and send lo 
table. 

Note. — This remove may also be decorated with ornamental skewer* 



BREAST OF VEAL. 203 

garnished with a piece of red tongue, cut in the shape of a cock's-comb, 
a large double white cock's-comb, a mushroom, and a red quenelle, 
ornamented with truffle. 

593. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Procure a loin of veal, cut square without the chump, and with the 
flap, or skirt, left on ; bone it carefully, truss it tightly in the shape of 
a pillow, and after first laying the fillet bare, by paring off the whole 
of the skin and sinew which covers it, lard it closely, as you would a 
fricandeau. When the loin is so far prepared, get it ready for braiz- 
ing in a large oval braizing-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, garnished 
fagot, two blades of mace, and four cloves ; moisten with two ladlesful 
of good stock, cover with an oval of paper, well-buttered, place the lid 
on the pan with live embers on it, and then set the veal to braize gently 
on the fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. 
"When done, drain, glaze, and dish it up; pour round it a rich brown 
Ftnanciere ragout (No. 188), garnish with a border of plain quenelles, 
and crayfish, and send to table. 

594. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL, A LA CREME. 

To prepare this, follow the direction's given for dressing neck of veal 
a la Gixme (No. 579) ; garnish in the same manner, and send to table. 

595. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, A L'ANGLAISE. 

First take the tendons out of the breast of veal intended to be 
dressed, and reserve them for an entree ; then bone it completely, cut 
the ends square, and trim it; place about 1 lb. of well-seasoned veal- 
stuffing (No. 662) along the centre of the inner part, roll the veal np 
tight, so as to secure the stuffing in the middle; fasten it with string 
and small skewers. About an hour and a half before dinner-time, spit 
the breast of veal, cover it with buttered paper, and put it down to roast ; 
when done, dish it up, pour round it either some brown melted butter 
(Xo. 82), light Espagnole sauce, or Bechamel, and send to table. 

596. BREAST OF VEAL, A LA BOURGEOISE. 

Bone, trim, and roll a breast of veal, according to the preceding in- 
structions ; prepare it an oval stewpan, with 4 oz. of fresh butter, and 
set it to simmer on a moderate fire, until it becomes colored all over; 
then add a garnished fagot of parsley and green onions, moisten with 
a lar^e ladleful of good stock, and put it to braize gently on the stove- 
fire, or in the oven ; half an hour after, add two dozen small carrots, 
nicely turned, and in another half hour, add as many heads of middle- 
sized onions, a pinch of sugar, and a little salt. When the veal is done, 
take it up, and after taking away the strings and skewers, put it on a 
baking-sheet in the oven and glaze it; dish it up, garnish round with 
the glazed carrots and onions, and after removing all the fat from the 
surface of the stock, or essence of the veal, and reducing it down to 
the consistency of half-glaze, use it to sauce the breast of veal, and 
send to table. 

597. BREAST OF VEAL, A LA WINDSOR. 

Bone and trim a breast of veal, lay it on the table, and after spread- 
ing the inner part with quenelle force-meat of veal or rabbits, at least 



204 REMOVES OF VEAL. 

an inch thick, place some square fillets of boiled tongue lengthwise, 
and between the fillets of tongue put some pieces of black truffles, cut 
square to match the size of the pieces of tongue; then roll up the breast 
of veal carefully, secure its shape with the aid of small iron skewers and 
string, and to prevent the force-meat from escaping, cover the ends with 
layers of fat bacon. Put the veal thus prepared into an oval braizing- 
pan, with the trimmings and the usual complement of roots, &c, mois- 
ten with two ladleSful of good stock, and set it to braize gently on a 
slow fire ; when doue, drain, glaze, and dish it up, garnish round with 
French-beans cut in diamonds — which, after being boiled green, must 
be dressed with a spoonful of Bechamel sauce, a little minionette-pep- 
per, nutmeg, salt, fresh butter, and lemon-juice ; round these place a 
border of young carrots nicely glazed, and send to table. 

The braize in which the breast of veal is done should be divested of 
grease and clarified, and after being reduced to half glaze served sepa- 
rately in a sauce-boat. 

598. ROAST BREAST OF VEAL, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Trim, stuff, and truss a breast of veal as directed for the preparation 
of a breast of veal a V Anglaise, roast it off iu the same manner, dish it 
up, and surround it with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), and send 
to table. 

599. ROLLED BREAST OF VEAL, A LA ROMAINE. 

Prepare a breast of veal as for a la Windsor, and braize it accord- 
ingly ; when done, glaze and dish it up, garnish it with lasagnes (No. 
265) prepared as macaroni, surround the whole with a border of rice 
croquettes, made with rice boiled iu consomme, and to which should be 
added a little Allemande sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, and 
minionette pepper ; and when the preparation is cold, mould the cro- 
quettes according to taste, bread-crumb and fry them of a light color, 
and use them as directed. Send the remove to table, accompanied with 
a sauce-boat containing Sicilian sauce (No. 60). 

600. ROLLED BREAST OF VEAL, A LA ROYALE. 

For this preparation, follow the directions given for loin of veal a la 
JRoyale. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing methods of preparing breasts of 
veal for the table, they may, after beiug either roasted or braized, also 
be garnished with a Jardiniere or Macedoine of vegetables, with stewed 
peas, or with a ragout a la Claremont, a la Toulouse, d la Chipolala, 
&c. &c, as convenience or fancy may suggest. 



205 



REMOTES OF LEGS, LOINS, AND NECKS OF MUTTON, 

COMPRISING 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, d I'Anglaise. Necks of Mutton, d I'Anglaise. 

Braized „ with roots. „ d I' Irlandaise. 

,, „ d la Provencale. „ d la Jardiniere. . 

„ „ d la Soubise. „ larded with Poivrade 

„ „ d la Bretonne. sauce. 

„ ,, d la Jardiniere. „ d VAllemande. 

Braized Saddle of Mutton, d la Macidoine. „ d la Soubise. 

601. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON", A L'ANGLAISE. 

Select a leg of Southdown mutton, rather fat, and not kept above 
three or four days ; trim it, and put it on to boil in a stock-pot or 
braizing-pan, filled up with cold water; when it boils, remove the 
scum, and put it on the side of the stove to continue gently boiling 
for about two hours and a half: a handful of salt and a couple of 
turnips and carrots should be put into the pot to boil with the leg. 
When the mutton is done, drain and dish it up, garnish it round with 
mashed turnips, dressed with a little sweet cream, a pat of butter, 
pepper -and salt : mould the mashed turnips in the shape of large 
eggs — with a table-spoon, and place these closely round the leg of 
mutton, introducing between each spoonful of mashed turnips, a 
carrot nicely turned, that has been boiled, either with the mutton, or 
in some broth separately : pour some gravy under it, put a paper 
ruffle on the bone, and send it to table, accompanied with a sauce-boat 
full of caper-sauce (No. 91). 

602. BRATZED LEG OF MUTTON, GARNISHED WITH ROOTS. 

Tium a leg of Southdown or Scotch mutton, interlard it with fillets 
of ham or bacon cut a quarter of an inch square and about six inches 
long, seasoned with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg and some 
chopped parsley; pare off the ends of ham, &c, and place the leg of 
mutton in an oval braizing-pan with two carrots, a head of celery, a 
couple of onions, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten witli 
a glass of brandy, and two large ladlefuls of fresh stock, cover with 
an oval buttered paper and put on the lid ; then set the braizing-pan 
on the fire to boil gently for about four hours, from time to time 
moistening the mutton with its liquor, and keeping a continual supply 
of live embers on the lid of the pan. When done, take it up on to a 
deep baking-sheet, with a little of its own liquor, and put in the hot 
closet till wanted. In the mean time, strain off the braize, divest it 
of all the fat, clarify it in the usual manner, and when strained, reduce 
it to the consistency of half glaze, and set it aside in a small bain-marie. 
Then glaze the leg of mutton nicely, and place it on its dish ; garnish 
it round with alternate groups of young carrots and turnips turned 
and boiled in broth as usual, for the purpose, and afterward boiled 
down in their own glaze, also some glazed young onions ; pour the 
clarified essence under the leg of mutton, put the ruffle ou the bone, 
and send to table. 



206 REMOVES OF MUTTON. 

603. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON", A LA PROVENCALE. 

Bone a leg of four-year old mutton, commencing at the thigh bone, 
by detaching the meat from round it with a knife, and throwing it 
back right up to the joint of the leg-bone ; then cut the sinewy liga- 
tures, and remove the thigh-bone entirely ; saw off the shank and 
scrape the end of the bone remaining in the leg as in preparing a 
cutlet. Then interlard the interior with seasoned lardoons or fillets 
of ham or fat bacon, introduce the Provengale stuffing (described below), 
and sew the hollow opening whence the bone has been extracted, with 
small twine ; place the leg of mutton in a braizing-pan with carrots, 
turnips, celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, two garnished fagots, 
and six cloves of garlic ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry, and two 
large ladlefuls of good fresh stock, cover with an oval of buttered 
paper and the lid ; set the pan on the stove to boil, and then put it 
on a small stove-fire, with live embers on the lid, and allow it to con- 
tinue gently simmering for about four hours; taking care to moisten 
it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up on to 
a baking-sheet with some of its own liquor, and set it in the hot closet 
for a few minutes. Strain the remainder of the liquor through si 
sieve, and remove all the fat, clarify it, strain the essence through a 
napkin, and reduce it to half glaze, and add it to some Gasconne Mtfee 
(No. 68). Then dish up the mutton, garnish it round with toruatas 
or mushrooms dressed au gratin (No. 1160), pour the Gasconne sauce 
under the remove, and send to table. — The Provengale stuffing for the 
leg of mutton is to be made as follows : 

Chop half a pottle of mushrooms very fine, and put them into a 
small stewpan ; to these add some chopped parsley and shalot, with 
an equal quantity of grated lean and fat ham, and a little grated 
lemon-peel : season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; set the whole on 
the fire and stir it with a wooden spoon for five minutes, that the 
watery parts of the mushrooms may evaporate ; add the yelks of four 
eggs, and after -setting the yelks of eggs in the fine-herbs, by stirring 
the whole on the fire, add them to some quenelle force-meat made with 
the fillets of a partridge, mix these well together, and use the stuffing 
as directed above. 

604. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA SOUBISE. 

Bone a leg of mutton, and lard it as in the foregoing case, stuff it 
with some quenelle force-meat, made with game, and secure the stuffing 
with twine. Then prepare the leg of mutton for braizing with a 
couple of carrots and onions, a head of celery, and garnished fagot, four 
cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with two large ladlesful of 
common stock, cover these with buttered paper, then put on the lid. 
and set it on a moderate fire to braize gently for about fuur hours : 
taking care to moisten it frequently with its liquor. When the 
mutton is braized perfectly tender, take it up on to a baking-sheet 
with some of the liquor in which it has been braized, and put it in the 
oven to finish glazing. In the mean time strain off and clarify the 
remainder of the liquor, and keep it in a small bain-marie; ami after 
having glazed the mutton brightly, dish it up on a bed of well-made 
Soubise puree of ouion (No. 11 9), garnish round with potato croquettes, 
and send to table. 



BRAIZED LEG AND SADDLE OF MUTTON. 207 

The clarified essence, after being reduced to half glaze, should be 
sent to table in a sauce-boat to be served with the mutton when 
carved ; if poured round the mutton, it would mix with the Soubise 
sauce. 

605. BRAIZED LEG- OP MUTTON, A LA BRETONNE. 

Prepare and braize a leg of mutton as directed in the foregoing 
case ; when done, glaze and dish it up on a bed of white haricot-beans 
dressed & la Bretonne (No. 1186) ; garnish it round with a border of 
potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in butter, of a 
light color ; ornament the bone with a paper ruffle, and send to table. 

606. BRAIZED LEG OF MUTTON, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Bone and braize a leg of mutton according to the preceding direc- 
tions ; and when done, glaze and dish it up ; garnish it round with 
alternate groups of prepared small carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, 
French beans cut in diamonds, small new potatoes, cucumbers, aspara- 
gus-heads, and green peas — the whole, or any part of these, according 
to the season. Pour round the mutton some Espagnole sauce iu 
which has been incorporated, after reduction, the clarified essence in 
which the mutton has been braized ; put on a ruffle, and send to table. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing garnishes for braized legs of 
mutton, the) r may also be appropriately served with new potatoes a la 
JIaUre d' Hotel, fresh ha?-icdt-be&us, stewed peas, and a border of 
young carrots glazed, artichoke bottoms cut in quarters, and tossed 
in Allemande sauce, or with a Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143)., 

607. BRAIZED SADDLE OF MUTTON, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Procure a well-covered saddle of mutton, and extract the spine- 
bone With the knife, without injuring the fillets, or perforating any 
part of the fat which covers them ; trim the tail end quite round, cut 
the flaps square, season the inner part of the saddle with pepper and 
salt, and having rolled up each flap or skirt piece, so as to give it a 
tight and neat appearance, secure its shape by passing some string 
round it several times. After this, the mutton should be prepared 
for braizing with carrots, onions, celery, garnished fagots, cloves, and 
mace ; moisten with a sufficient quantity of good stock, to merely 
cover the mutton ; place a buttered paper and the lid over all, set the 
braizing-pan on a moderate fire, and after it has boiled, let it continue 
ly braizing for about four hours — carefully basting it frequently 
with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up on to a baking-sheet, 
and put it in the oven to dry the moisture from the surface, prepara- 
tory to its being glazed ; then dish it up, and garnish it round with 
prepared small vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, 
French-beans, cucumbers, asparagus-heads, small new potatoes, and 
green-peas: each separately tossed in a little Allemande sauce (after 
being first prepared in the usual manner, and the carrots and turnips 
boiled down in their glaze, as also the cucumbers), pour some Alle- 
mande sauce round the saddle of mutton, and send to table. 

Note. — Instead of saucing this remove with Allemande, Espagnole 



208 BEMOVES OF MUTTON. 

may be used, if preferred, or even the clarified and reduced essence in 
which the mutton has been braized ; but it is essential that the vegeta- 
bles intended to be used for garnishing should be dressed with Alle- 
mande or Bechamel sauce. 

Saddles of mutton prepared and braized according to the foregoing 
instructions may also be sent to table in all the varieties described for 
braized legs of mutton. 

608. BOILED NECKS OF MUTTON, A LANGLAISE. 

Saw off the scrag of two necks of mutton, and shorten the rib-bones 
to four inches in length ; next, detach the spine-bone from the fleshy 
part of the neck, and afterward saw off the whole of the spine adhering 
to the base of the ribs ; pare the fat smooth, and about two hours 
before dinner-time, put them on to boil in a stewpan with water, a 
little salt, and two or three carrots and turnips. When they are done, 
dish them up so as that the uncovered ends of the rib-bones may fall 
in between each other — representing a chevaux-de-frize. Garnish 
round with mashed turnips, and with turned carrots, between each 
spoonful of the mashed turnips, or else placed round in a row. 

Send two sauce-boats filled with gravy and caper-sauce (No. 91). 

609. BRAIZED NECK OF MUTTON, A L'lRLANDAISE. 

Trim two necks of mutton as directed in the previous article, put 
them to braize in an oval stewpan with carrot, onion, celery, and gar- 
nished fagot ; moisten with common stock, and put them to boil on the 
stove ; after which set them by the side of a moderate fire, and while 
the necks of mutton are being braized, turn two or three dozen pota- 
toes in the shape of small eggs, and place them in a stewpan with half 
a dozen small onions ; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a 
ladleful of broth, and put them on a moderate fire to boil gently : 
taking care that the potatoes are kept as whole as possible, although 
they must be thoroughly boiled. When the necks of mutton are done, 
take them up, trim them, if necessary, and dish them up as directed 
in the foregoing article ; strain the broth in which the mutton has 
been boiled, remove all the grease from its surface, and reduce it to 
half glaze : add part of it to the potatoes, and with these garnish the 
necks of mutton round neatly, pour the essence under, glaze them, and 
seud to table. 

610. BRAIZED NECK OF MUTTON, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Trim two necks of mutton, and prepare them for braizing with car- 
rot, onion, celery, fagot, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten 
with two ladlesful of stock, cover with an oval piece of buttered paper, 
and the lid ; put them to braize gently on a moderate fire for about 
two hours and a half: when done, glaze and dish them up, giving them 
an appearance of chevaux-de-frize ; garnish them round with a well- 
prepared Jardiniere of every variety of small vegetables in season, 
sauce them with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. 

611. BRAIZED NECKS OF MUTTON LARDED — AS ROEBUCK, WITH 
POIVRADE SAUCE. 

For the preparation of this remove, it is necessary that the necks 
of mutton be trimmed as directed for braizing, and afterward that 



NECKS OF MUTTON. 209 

the upper part of the fillet be laid bare without loosening it from the 
bones; they must then be larded closely as a fricandeau^ and put to 
steep in a cold marinade (No. 234), for at least twenty-four hours. It 
will be readily understood that this must be attended to a day before 
the necks of mutton are required to be used. Trim, lard, and marinade 
the necks of mutton as directed ; and then prepare them for braizing 
in the following manner : — Place the necks of mutton in an oval 
braizing-pan on the drainer, garnish with carrot, onion, celery, gar- 
nished fagot of parsley, &c, four cloves and two blades of mace ; 
moisten with some light wine mirepoix (No. 236), or in lieu thereof, 
use half a pint of Sherry or Madeira, and a large ladleful of stock ; 
cover the necks of mutton with an oval piece of buttered paper, and 
set them to boil on the stove-fire ; after which put the lid on the pan, 
and set the braizing-pan on a moderate fire with live embers on the 
lid, to continue gently boiling for about two hours ; taking care to 
baste the larded necks frequently with their own liquor. When done, 
take them up on to a small baking-dish with a little of their own broth, 
and put them in the oven that the larding may dry for a minute or two, 
then glaze and dish them up ; garnish them round with a border of 
potatoes turned in the shape of large olives, corks, or balls, and fried 
in clarified butter ; pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29), under them, 
and send to table. 

612. NECKS OF MUTTON, LAEDED AND BEAIZED, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Trim, lard, and prepare for braizing, two necks of mutton, as directed 
in the preceding article ; and about two hours before dinner-time, set 
them on the fire to braize in the usual manner. When done, glaze and 
dish them up, surround them with alternate groups of quenelles of 
potatoes, and prunes stewed in red wine ; pour some German sweet 
sauce (No. 61) under them, and send to table. 

613. NECKS OF MUTTON LAEDED, A LA SOUBISE 

Trim and lard two necks of mutton, prepare them for braizing with 
carrot, onion, celery, garnished fagot of parsley, three cloves, and two 
blades of mace ; moisten with a large ladleful of good stock, cover 
them with an oval piece of buttered paper as well as the lid of the 
brazier : set them on a moderate fire to braize gently for about an 
hour and a half; when done, glaze, and dish them up (having pre- 
viously poured in the dish a rich puree of onions d la Sotibise No. 119), 
place a border of potato croquettes round them, and seud to table. 



Note. — Larding may be dispensed with, when considered objection- 
able, without deteriorating much from the excellence of any of the 
foregoing methods of dressing necks of mutton. It is, however, 
generally regarded as a proper characteristic of these dishes. In 
addition to the above methods for garnishing braized necks of mutton, 
they may also be finished by placing round them a garnish of stewed 
peas, asparagus, glazed young carrots and turnips, sauer-kraut, baked 
tomatas, or Lyonnaise toinatas, or Piquante sauce. 
13 



210 



REMOVES OP LAMB, 

COMPRISING 

Baron of Lamb, d la Montmorency. Saddle of Lamb, d la Godard. 

„ d la Printaniere. „ d la Financiire. 

„ d la Jardiniere. „ d la Rot/ale. 

„ d la Maxtre d'H6tel. „ d la Macidoine. 

Hind-Quarters of Lamb. „ d la Milanaite. 
Saddle of Lamb, d la Dauphine. 

614. BARON OF LAMB, A LA MONTMORENCY. 

Procure the hind quarters of a fine fat lamb, take off the transparent 
skin which covers the fat of the saddle, and with the point of a small 
knife, make a slight incision, in an oval form, all over the surface of 
the upper part of the legs ; and afterward with a sharp thin-bladed 
knife, pare off the skin, so as to leave the place bare ; this will give to 
the surface of each leg, the appearance of fricandeaux prepared for 
larding. Then saw off the shank bones, as well as the projecting part 
of the spine bone ; cut off the tail, and truss the skirts neatly up with 
small skewers. Next, place the baron on the spit for roasting, and be 
careful* to cover it with buttered white paper. Two hours and a half 
before dinner, put the lamb down to the fire to roast, and about ten 
minutes before it is done, take off the paper; and after allowing the 
larding to get lightly colored, glaze it well over, then take it off the 
spit, and dish it up ; garnish it round with groups of button mush- 
rooms, truffles, fine white cocks'-combs, and scollops of red tongue ; 
round the whole place a border of syoon-quenelles decorated with 
truffles, and a lamb's sweetbread larded between each quenelle; sauce 
with good Allemande sauce ; glaze the lamb brightly, and send to 
table. 

615. BARON OF LAMB LARDED, A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Trim, lard, and roast a baron of lamb according to the directions 
contained in the foregoing article ; dish it up, pour round it some 
Printaniire sauce (No. 21), garnish it with groups of small new 
potatoes first partly boiled, and afterward fried of a light color in 
clarified butter, glaze the lamb all over, and send to table. 

616. BARON OF LAMB, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Prepare and roast the baron of lamb according to the preceding 
directions ; and when dished up, garnish it round with a rich and 
varied Jardiniere of such vegetables as are in season; sauce the lamb 
round with Evpagnole sauce, and send to table. 

617. BARON OF LAMB, A LA MAITRE d'HOTEL, 

Prepare the baron of lamb as previously directed, dish it up and 
pour round it a rich Maxtre d'Hdtel sauce (No. 43) ; garnish it round 
with alternate groups of small buds of cauliflowers, and fried olive- 
shaped potatoes ; glaze the lamb well, and send to table. 



SADDLE OF LAMB. 211 

Note. — Hind-quarters of lamb should be dressed in the same manner 
as barons of lamb, and may therefore be garnished with every sort of 
sauce and garnish used for the latter. 

When the larding is dispensed with, the whole of the fat as a matter 
of course should be retained on the surface of the lamb, to protect the 
meat from losing its juices, and consequently render it unfit for table. 

618. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Select a moderate-sized saddle of lamb, bone it, and having laid it 
on the table, season the inside with pepper and salt, and line it with 
some quenelle force-meat of veal or fowl, about an inch in thickness, 
placing on the force-meat some fillets of tongue and truffles, after which, 
fold the skirts of the saddle over — so as to encase the force-meat, &c, 
thereby giving it a plump appearance; and in order to secure its 
shape, bind it in a napkin on which butter has been spread : when the 
saddle of mutton is rolled up tightly in it, tie the ends with twine. 
Then place the saddle so prepared on the drainer of an oval braizing- 
pan, cover it with the bones and trimmings ; garnish with carrot, 
onion, celery, garnished fagot of parsley, four cloves, and two. blades 
of mace ; moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the lamb, and set 
it to braize gently on a moderate fire for about two hours and a half. 
When the lamb is done, place it on an earthen dish, untie the ends of 
the napkin, and fold the saddle up tightly, and smooth it in again ; 
fasten the ends as before, and put it in press between two dishes until 
it is nearly cold. Then take the lamb out of the napkin, trim it neatly, 
and cover it over with a coating of well-seasoned reduced Allemande 
sauce, which must be allowed to set, afterward being egged over, and 
then be covered with very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one-fourth 
part of grated Parmesan cheese ; sprinkle some drops of melted fresh 
butter with a paste-brush over the whole, and put it on a baking-sheel 
in the oven to acquire a light-brown or fawn color. The saddle of 
lamb being ready, dish it up, garnish it round with some bouchees of 
wild rabbits a la Pompadour (No. 1010) ; sauce round and under the 
lamb with some white Italian sauce (No. 13), and send to table. 

619. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA GODARD. 

Bone, stuff, and braize a saddle of lamb according to the preceding 
directions ; when done, put it in press between two dishes till cold. It 
should then be taken out of the napkin, trimmed neatly without remov- 
ing any of the fat, or diminishing its size, and put into a deep baking 
sheet with the broth in which it has been braized — previously clarified, 
and afterward reduced to half glaze for the purpose ; put a buttered 
oval piece of white paper on the top, and half an hour before dinner 
put it in the oven to be warmed and glazed of a fine light color. Then 
dish it up, and pour round it a rich ragdut a la Qodard — composed 
of cock's-corabs and kernels, button-mushrooms, small sweetbreads cut 
into scollops, and truffles — the whole to be tossed in some good Alle- 
mande sauce. Put a border pf large quenelles decorated with truffles, 
and some larded lamb's-heart sweetbreads — placed alternately round 
the remove, and send to table. 



212 REMOTES OF LAMB. 

620. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Prepare a saddle of lamb exactly as the foregoing, and when dished 
up, garnish it with a rich Finayxciere ragout (No. 188) ; glaze the re- 
move, and send to table. 

621. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA ROYALE. 
For the preparation of this remove, follow the directions for loin of 
veal d la Royale (No. 592). 

622. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA MACEDOIXE. 

Bone, stuff, and braize a saddle of lamb as for d la Godard (No. 
619), warm and glaze it, also, in the same manner; dish it up, garnish 
it round with a rich and well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables tossed 
in some Allemande sauce : surround the remove with a border of arti- 
choke bottoms, or small turnips cut in the shape of cups, boiled in 
white broth with a lump of sugar and a little salt, and filled — half with 
green peas, and the remainder with very small turned or scooped car- 
rots, nicely glazed ; glaze the remove, and send to table. 

623. SADDLE OF LAMB, A LA MILANAISE. 

Prepare and braize a saddle of lamb as previously directed ; when 
glazed, dish it up, and garnish it round with macaroni prepared as 
follows : — 

Boil one pound of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water, 
a pat of butter, a little salt and minionette pepper ; when done, drain 
it on a sieve, and afterward on a clean napkin, cut it into pieces two 
inches long, and put this into a stewpan with two pats of butter, six 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small piece of glaze, a ragout- 
spoonful of good white sauce, minionette pepper, and a little salt : toss 
the whole well together over a stove-fire until quite hot, and then use 
it to place round the remove, as also some truffles, and tongue cut into 
small circular scollops ; these are to be warmed in a tablespoonful of 
half glaze, and placed round the remove in alternate groups with the 
macaroni ; glaze the saddle of lamb before serving, and send to table 
with it a sauce-boat containing some of the clarified and reduced broth, 
in which the lamb has been braized, to be handed round with the 
remove. 



CALVES'-HEADS AND OX-CHEEKS, 

COMPRISING 

Calf s-head, d I'Anglaise. Ox-cheek, braized, d la Flamande. 
„ plain, with Piquante sauce. „ d la Poloi>ai*e. 

,, d la Ffnaneiire. „ d I' Allemande. 

„ d la Beaitvaux. „ d la Portuguaite. 

„ d la Tortne. „ d la Pompadour. 

,, d la Marigny. 

624. calf's-head, a l'anglaise. 

Procure a fine, fat, white, scalded calf's-head, bone it in the manner 
described for preparing mock-turtle soup (No. 349) ; then put it into 



CALF'S HEAD. 213 

a large panful of cold water, in order that it may be thoroughly 
cleansed, after which, put it on the fire in a large stewpan with cold 
water, and as soon as it boils, skim it well, and allow it to boil for 
five minutes; then take it up and put it into cold water to cool. 
Next, drain it on a napkin, cut the ears out, leaving a sufficient base 
round them to allow them to stand up; cut the cheeks, &c, into 
pieces two inches square, round the angles, and pare off any rough 
cuticle there may be about them ; this done, proceed to rub each piece 
of calfs-head .with lemon-juice, then place the whole, including 
the tongue, in a large stewpan, with carrot, onion, celery, parsley 
roots, sweet-basil, a garnished fagot of parsley, &c, four cloves, and 
two blades of mace ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry or Madeira, 
and two ladlesful of good white stock, and set the whole to braize 
gently on a moderate fire, for about two hours. When the pieces of 
calfs-head are done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in 
a close circle round the tongue, (previously trimmed, glazed, and 
placed in the centre of the dish) ; then cut the brains into scollops, 
and place them in the flanks, and at each end place the ears, pre- 
viously trimmed and curled; pour some parsley and butter (No. 77) 
over the remove, and send to table. 

The calf s ears should be trimmed as follows : — First drain them 
upon a napkin, then scrape off all the glutinous surface from the thin 
part with the edge of a spoon, leaving the white gristly membrane 
quite clear ; wash them in warm water, put them back upon the 
napkin, and then slit them into narrow stripes, taking care not to run 
the knife through the ends, but merely from the inner part to within 
half an inch of the point, so as that, when the ear is turned down, it 
may present the appearance of a looped frill. 

It is customary to send a piece of boiled streaky bacon on the side- 
table, when calfs-head is intended to be eaten plain. A boatful of 
sauce d la Diable (No. 17) as an accessory to plain calfs-head, is 
generally preferred to parsley and butter, the latter being considered 
too insipid. 

625. calf's-head, plain with piquante sauce. 

Prepare the calfs-head as directed in the preceding article ; 
then put about one pound of chopped beef-suet into a large stewpan, 
with carrot, onion, celery, garnished fagot of parsley, four cloves, .and 
two blades of mace. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon over the fire 
until the suet is melted, then add the pulp of two lemons and a small 
handful of flour ; moisten with common white broth, or water, add a 
little salt and a few pepper-corns, and then set the calfs-head to boil 
gently for about two hours. When it is done, drain the pieces upon 
a napkin, and dish them up neatly round the tongue, trimmed and 
glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish ; place the ears, after 
trimming them, at each end, and on either side of the tongue place half 
the brains (which should be boiled in vinegar and water, with a little 
salt, and some fat from the stock-pot) ; make an incision lengthwise 
in each half portion of the brains, then pour a well-made Piquante 
sauce (No. 18) over the whole : garnish round with eight fried eggs, 
and some croutons, and send to table. 

Calfs-head, prepared according to the foregoing directions, may also 



214 REMOVES. 

be served with either Italian, Ravigotte, Tomata, Poivrade, or Poor-man's 
sauce. 

626. calf's-head, a la financiers. 

Bone a calfs-head, blanch it in boiling water for about ten min- 
utes on the fire, then put it into cold water for ten minutes ; drain 
it upon a napkin, trim off all the rough parts, and cut it into large 
scollops, leaving the tongue and ears whole, as usual ; the brain 
should be carefully taken out of the head, and boiled separately, as 
directed in previous cases. 

The pieces of calf's-head after being first rubbed over with lemon- 
juice, should be placed in a braizing-pan with half a bottle of Sherry 
or Madeira, two ladlesful of good stock, carrot, onion, celery, gar- 
nished fagot of parsley, &c. ; four cloves, two blades of mace and a 
few peppercorns ; cover with a thickly buttered oval piece of strong 
white paper, and put on the lid ; then set it to braize gently for about 
two hours, with live embers on the lid. Twenty minutes before 
dinner time, drain the pieces of calf's head on to a napkin, dish them 
up in the form of a wreath, round the base of a fried croustade (pre- 
viously stuck on the centre of the dish with a little flour and white 
of egg mixed together), at each end place the ears, on the croustade 
place the tongue (separated down the centre, and rather spread out), 
and the brains laid thereon ; around these should be stuck in the 
croustade six or eight ornamental skewers, each furnished with a double 
cock's-comb, a large mushroom, a truffle, and a crayfish ; pour round 
the whole a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), and send to table. 

627. calf's-head, a la beauvaux. 

Select a small, well-shaped white calfs-head, bone it carefully, as 
before directed, keeping the skin as whole as possible. When the 
head has been boned, wash it thoroughly, wipe it with a clean cloth, 
season inside with pepper and salt, and then fill up the entire vacant 
space, occasioned by the extraction of the skull and jaws, with 
a well-seasoned quenelle force-meat made of veal mixed with some 
chopped parsley and mushrooms ; when the calf's-head is thus again 
plumped up to its original size, by means of the force-meat, it must be 
secured, by sewing up all the apertures with twine and a truss- 
ing needle of proper size. When this part of the process is completed, 
roll the calf's-head up tightly in a well-buttered napkin saturated 
with lemon-juice (to keep the head white) ; then place the calf's-head 
in a braizing-pan with one pound of chopped suet, carrot, onion, 
celery garnished fagot cloves, mace, peppercorns, and a spoonful 
of salt ; moisten with good common white stock, cover with the lid, 
and set it to boil gently for about two hours. 

About half an hour before dinner-time, take the calf's head up on 
a dish, remove the napkin, trim the ears, slit them and turn them 
down, that they may appear frilled ; then place the calf's-head, per- 
fectly drained from any moisture, on the centre of the dish, and 
remove ail the twine with which it has been sewn up, and musk it all 
over, excepting the ears, with a preparation of four yelks of i 
mixed with a pat of melted butter, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and a little nutmeg; theu cover the whole with fine bread- 



calf's-head. 215 

crumbs, fried in a sauta-pan, with a little butter of a fine bright color, 
and place the head in the oven for five minutes, that the bread-crumbs 
may dry on, taking care to cover the ears with wet paper to keep 
them white, and prevent them from cocking up and spoiling their ef- 
fect. As soon as the bread-crumbs have dried on, remove the paper 
from the ears, sauce round with a ragout, composed of the tongue cut 
into scollops, as also the brains, some button mushrooms, and greeu 
gherkins, cut into the shape of olives ; allow these to boil up for two 
or three minutes in a well-made Poivrade sauce (No. 29) ; garnish 
round with some quenelles of veal or chicken, colored with Bavigotte, 
or spinach-green (No. 285) ; stick in four silver ornamental skewers, 
garnished with a crest of red tongue, a large truffle, and a decorated 
quenelle, and send to table. 

628. calf's-head, a la tortue. 

Bone, blanch and trim a calf's-head, cut it up into large scollops, 
keep the ears whole, neatly trim the pieces, and toss them in the 
juice of a lemon ; put them into a stewpan, with carrot, onion, celery, 
garnished-fagot, cloves, mace, and a few peppercorns ; moisten with 
half a bottle of Madeira or Sherry, and two large ladlesful of good 
stock ; cover with a well-buttered stiff paper, and put on the lid ; set 
the whole to braize on the stove for about two hours. When the 
pieces of calf's-head are done, drain them on a napkin, and afterward 
dish them up in the form of a close wreath, round the base of a fried 
bread croustade ; place the ears at the ends and on the flanks : if the 
party be large, two extra ears should be procured, as the four make 
the dish look much handsomer : next, place the tongue, cut down its 
centre, and spread out on the top of the croustade ; on this put the 
brains, which must be kept whole and white, and round these, on the 
croustade, should be stuck six ornamental silver skewers, garnished 
with a double cocks-comb, a large mushroom, a quenelle, a truffle, and 
a large crayfish : sauce round with a well-made sauce a la Tortus 
(No. 9).; garnish the dish round between the spaces*of the ears, with 
four larded and glazed sweetbreads, and eight decorated quenelles, and 
send to table. 

629. calf's-head, a la marigny. 

Prepare and braize a calf's-head as directed for dressing a calf's- 
head a la Beauvaux. When done, take it out of the napkin, and 
drain all the moisture from it, place the head on a dish, remove the 
twine used to secure its shape, trim the ears; and then sauce it all 
over (the ears excepted) with a well-seasoned Bavigotte sauce ; garnish 
round with a border of crayfish, and green gherkins, and send to 
table. 

Note. — It is not necessary, in all cases, to garnish each remove as 
richly as heretofore set forth : many of the accessories, on every-day 
occasions, might be regarded as extravagant. What to omit in such 
cases, must be left to the judgment of the experienced cook, acquainted 
with the means and taste of his master. 



216 REMOVES. 

630. OX-CHEEK BRAIZED, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Procure two fresh ox-cheeks, bone and trim them, and then place 
them in a large oval braizing-pan on the drainer, garnish with the 
usual complement of vegetables, &c, add the trimmings, moisten with 
sufficient broth from the stockpot to cover the whole, and set them 
to boil very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about five hours. 
When the ox-cheeks are thoroughly braized, and are become quite 
tender, take them up carefully, and put them in press between two 
dishes, until cold ; then trim them neatly, giving them an oval or 
oblong shape, and put them into a deep fricandeau pan, with the broth 
in which they have been braized (clarified and reduced to half its 
original quantity), and set them by in the larder, till about three- 
quarters of an hour before dishing up ; then put the ox-cheeks in the 
oven or on a slow fire, to get gradually warm, and to glaze them 
brightly, with their own stock. Next place them on their dish, the 
one resting on the other, garnish them round with a border of 
Brussels-sprouts boiled green, and tossed over the fire in a stew-pan, 
with two pats of butter, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt ; or when 
these fail, in their stead use braized cabbages ; then add a border of 
alternate groups of well-prepared, and nicely glazed carrots and 
turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and also some small-sized glazed 
onions. Sauce with an Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to 
table. 

631. OX-CHEEK, A LA POLONAISE. 

Bone and trim two ox-cheeks ; prepare them for braizing as directed 
in the foregoing case ; moisten with half a bottle of Sherry, and allow 
them to simmer on the stove-fire for about ten minutes, add sufficient 
stock to cover them, and again set them on the stove to boil ; skim 
and put them by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling for 
five hours. When the ox-cheeks are sufficiently braized, and are 
become quite tender, put them in press between two dishes ; when 
cold, trim, and afterward cut them across the grain into very thin 
slices. Then stick a number of triangular croutons of fried bread in 
an oval form on the dish, within two inches of the edge, and within 
this coronet place a layer of the thin slices of the ox-cheeks, over 
which spread some sauce made in the following manner: — 

Shred the rind of two oranges very thin, and perfectly free from 
pith, boil it in water for five minutes, drain and refresh it in cold 
water, and then add to it a small ladleful of good Espagnole sauce, half 
a pound of red-currant jelly, four chopped shalots, a little grated 
nutmeg, and the juice of one lemon ; boil the whole together, stirring 
it the while with a wooden spoon, and use this preparation as directed 
above. Having thus continued alternately adding layers of ox- 
cheek and sauce, until the whole forms a dome ; mask it over with 
the remainder of the sauce, and after smoothing the surface with the 
blade of a knife, cover it with some light-colored raspings of roll, 
bruised and sifted for the purpose. About three quarters of an hour 
before dinner, put the dish in the oven, when moderately hot to allow 
the preparation to get thoroughly warm ; garnish with a border of 
fried eggs and glazed onions, pour some of the same sauce round it — 



OX-CHEEKS. 217 

this, however, must be thinner than that directed to be used for mixing 
with the ox-cheeks — and serve. 

632. ox-cheeks, a l'allemande. 

Braize the ox-cheeks as directed in the foregoing case ; when done, 
put them in press, and after being trimmed, place them on a but- 
tered baking-sheet, and mask them all over with the following prepara- 
tion : — Bake some pieces of crumb of bread of a light color, pound 
and sift them; use this powder to mix into a paste with Port wine, a 
table-spoonful of cinnamon-powder, and 2 oz. of pounded sugar; mix 
the whole well together, and spread it all over the ox-cheeks. Three 
quarters of an hour before dinner-time, put the ox-cheeks in the oven, 
when moderately hot, to get warmed through ; then place them on 
their dish, garnish round with groups of small quenelles of potatoes 
(No. 312) and stewed prunes, sauce them round with German sweet 
sauce (No. 61), and send to table. 

633. OX-CHEEKS, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 

Braize the ox-cheeks ; when done, put them in press, trim and place 
them in a fricandeau pan, with the clarified and reduced broth in which 
they have been braized ; and having warmed them in this, and glazed 
them with it, dish them up ; garnish round with a border of eggs, 
farcis, or stuffed and fried (No. 380), pour some Portuguese sweet 
sauce (No. 59) round the ox-cheeks, and send to table. 

634. OX-CHEEKS, A LA POMPADOUR. 

Braize the ox-cheeks very tender, and after having put them in 
press, and then trimmed them, mask them over with a coating of 
reduced Atelet sauce (No. 36) ; when the sauce has become set by 
cooling on the ox-cheeks, egg them over and bread-crumb them with 
very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one fourth of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; sprinkle over a little butter, place them on a well-buttered 
baking-sheet, and an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake 
of a fine bright color ; dish them up, garnish round with a ragout of 
ox-palates in a brown Italian sauce (No. 209), finish with a border of 
croquettes of ox-palates, and send to table. 

Note. — Besides the foregoing methods of dressing ox-cheeks, they 
may also be served with a Jardiniere, Macedoine, tomatas farcis (No. 
1160), braized red cabbage, Soubise, or Bretonne purees, stewed peas, 
or asparagus peas. 

Although in the preceding cases it is directed that two ox-cheeks 
should be used for a remove, it does not follow that in all cases two 
are requisite ; more frequently one will prove to be quite sufficient for 
the purpose. 



218 



REMOVES OP PORK AND ROASTED SUCKING PIGS, 

COMPRISING 

Boiled Leg of Pork, d VAnglaise. Roast Sucking Pig, d VAnglahe. 

„ „ d I'Allemande. „ „ d la Pingord. 

Roast Leg of Pork. „ „ d la Chipolata. 

Roast Loin of do. ,. „ d la Provenqale. 

Roast Neck of do. „ „ d la Napulitaine. 

Roast Griskin of do. 

635. BOILED LEG OF PORK A L'ANGLAISE. 

Saw off the shank bone of a salted leg of dairy-fed pork, then put 
it into a large braizing-pan or stock-pot : fill this nearly full with cold 
water, and add six carrots, as many turnips, one head of celery, and an 
onion stuck with three cloves. Set the pork to boil gently by the side 
of the stove-fire for about three hours — the exact time depending on 
its size. While the pork is boiling, trim a dozen and a half of small 
turnips and as many young carrots, boil these separately, and reserve 
them for garnishing the remove. When the pork is done, drain, trim, 
and dish it up ; place the carrots and turnips alternately round the 
remove, pour some plain gravy under it, put a ruffle on the bone, and 
send to table. 

A peas-pudding is usually served from the side-board, made as 
follows : soak a pint of yellow split peas in cold water for about six 
hours ; drain and tie them rather loosely in a napkin or pudding-cloth, 
and boil them with the pork — about three hours will suffice. Take 
them up, pound them in a mortar with two pats of fresh butter, and 
rub them through a fine wire-sieve : then put this puree into a stew- 
pan, add the yelks of four eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix the 
whole well together with a wooden spoon, and after having spread a 
napkin with fresh butter, place the puree in the centre, draw the 
corners up on the left hand, and with the right tie up the pudding 
with string ; then place it to boil for an hour, after which turn it out 
carefully on to a vegetable dish, and serve. 

636. BOILED LEG OP PORK A L'ALLEMAXDE. 

Pickle a leg of pork with four ounces of saltpetre, ditto of moist 
sugar, half a pint of vinegar, cloves, mace, sweet basil, and marjoram, 
thyme, and bay-leaf, and the usual quantity of common salt ; boil it 
as directed in the foregoing article. When done, dish it up, and after 
garnishing it with saner kraut (No. 165), surround it with a border of 
glazed carrots, turnips, and onions ; pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 
29) over it, and send to table. 

637. ROAST LEG OP PORK, A l'ASTGLAISE. 

Procure a leg of fresh dairy-fed pork ; make a large incision just 
below the knuckle, between the skin and meat, for the purpose of 
introducing the stuffing of sage and onion, which must be secured by 
sewing it up with small twine ; then with a sharp-pointed knife score 
it all over in the following manner : with the left hand hold the pork 
firmly, and with a very sharp knife score the skin across in parallel 



REMOTES OF PORK. 219 

lines a quarter of an inch apart ; then spit the joint, and roast it for 
about two hours and a half; when done, dish it up, pour a rich brown 
gravy under it, and send to table with apple sauce. 

The stuffing for the pork should be thus prepared : chop a dozen 
sage leaves and six large onions, boil these in water for three minutes, 
and after having drained them on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with 
pepper and salt, and a pat of butter ; set the stuffing to simmer gently 
over a very slow fire for ten minntes, and then use it as directed above. 

638. ROAST LOIN OF PORK. 

Trim, score, and separate the bones of the loin of pork with a small 
chopper or meat saw ; make an incision in the upper part of the loin 
for placing the stuffing, sew it up with small twine, and having passed 
a strong iron skewer through it lengthwise, tie it firmly on to a spit at 
both ends. About an hour and a quarter before dinner-time, put. the 
pork down to the fire to roast, and when done dish it up ; pour some 
brown gravy under it, garnish it round with a border of small potatoes 
fried of a light color, and send to table with apple sauce. 

639. ROAST NECK OF PORK. 

Saw the chine bone neatly off, stuff the neck of pork with sage and 
onion, spit, roast, and dish it up as directed for the loin, and serve. 

640. ROAST GEISKIN OF PORK. 

The piece called griskin is that part of the pig which is cut from the 
side of a bacon-hog, being the lean from the neck and loin : this should 
be lightly sprinkled with salt the day before dressing it for table ; it 
must then have a long iron skewer passed through it lengthwise, and 
tied on to a spit. About an hour and a quarter before dinner put it 
to roast, and when the griskin has been down an hour, shake some 
flour over it with a dredger, and afterward sprinkle some chopped 
sage and onions upon it. When the pork is done, dish it up, pour 
some brown gravy under it, and send to table with two sauce-boats 
containing apple and sage and onion sauce, the latter to be prepared 
as follows : chop a dozen sage-leaves and four onions, and after having 
boiled them two minutes in water, drain, and put them in a stewpan 
with a pat of butter, pepper and salt ; set these to simmer on a very 
slow fire for ten minutes, and then add half-a-pintof good brown gravy, 
boil the whole together for five minutes, and serve. 

641. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A L'ANGLAISE. 

In selecting a sucking-pig for the table, those of about three weeks 
old are generally preferred, their meat being more delicate than when 
allowed to grow larger. Let the pig be prepared for dressing in the 
usual way, that is, scalded, drawn, &c, pettitoes cut off, and the paunch 
filled with stuffing previously prepared for the purpose as follows : chop 
two large onions and a dozen sage-leaves, boil them in water for two 
minutes, and after having drained the sage and onion on to a sieve, 
place it in a stewpan with a pat of butter, pepper and salt, and set the 
whole to simmer gently for ten minutes on a very slow fire ; then add 



220 REMOVES OF PORK. 

a double handful of bread-crumbs, two pats of butter, and the yelks 
of two eggs ; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use 
the stuffing as before directed. When the sucking-pig is stuffed, sew 
the paunch up with twine, spit the pig for roasting, carefully fastening 
it on the spit at each end with small iron skewers, which should be run 
through the shoulders and hips to secure it tightly, so that it may on 
no account slip round when down to roast. The pig will require about 
two hours to roast thoroughly, and should be frequently basted with a 
paste-brush dipped in salad oil. (Oil is better adapted for this purpose 
than either dripping or butter, giving more crispness to the skin ; 
when basted with oil, the pig will, while roasting, acquire a more even, 
and a finer color.) When done, take it up from the fire on the spit, 
and immediately cut the head off with a sharp knife, and lay it on a 
plate in the hot closet. Next, cut the pig in two, by dividing it first 
with a sharp knife straight down the back to the spine, finishing with 
a meat-saw ; a large dish should be held under the pig while it is thus 
being divided, into which it may fall when completely cut through ; 
place the two sides back to back on the dish, without disturbing the 
stuffing, split the head in two, put the brains in a small stewpan, trim 
off the snout and jaws, leaving only the cheeks and ears, place these 
one at each end of the dish, surround the remove with a border of 
small potatoes fried of a light color, in a little clarified butter ; pour 
under some rich brown gravy, and send to table with the following 
sauce : to the brains, put into a small stewpan as before directed, add 
a spoonful of blanched chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, a piece of 
glaze the size of a large walnut, some well-made butter sauce, and the 
juice of a lemon : stir the whole well together over the fire, and when 
quite hot, send it to table separately in a boat, to be handed round 
with the sucking-pig. 

642. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA PERIGORD. 

Procure a plump fresh killed sucking-pig, and fill the paunch with 
the following preparation. Wash and thoroughly clean two pounds 
of fresh truffles, pare them and afterward cut them into pieces re- 
sembling small walnuts, but without trimming them much ; pound the 
parings and trimmings in a mortar with about two ounces of butter ; 
then put them into a stewpan with the truffles, and add thereto about 
one pound of scraped fat bacon, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme 
and sweet-basil chopped fine, some grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, a 
small clove of garlic, and half-a-pound of fat livers of fowls pounded 
for the purpose. Set the whole over a moderate fire, stirring it the 
while with a wooden spoon : when the truffles have simmered on the 
stove for about ten minutes, take them off and allow them to cool, fill 
the paunch of the sucking-pig with the above, sew it up with twine, 
spit and roast it as directed in the preceding article ; when done, dish 
up in the same manner, taking care to send with it all the truffles ; 
pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) under it, and send to table. 

643. ROAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Roast sixty chestnuts, peel and then boil them with a quart of 
consommt for tweuty minutes: reserve half in a small stewpan, and mix 



AND SUCKING-PIGS. 221 

the remainder with one pound of pork sausage-meat, and use this kind 
of stuffing to fill the paunch of a sucking-pig ; sew it up with a 
trussing-needle and string, spit, and roast it in the usual manner : 
and when done, dish it up as directed in the foregoing cases ; 
observing, that the stuffing should be kept as whole as possible in 
the separated sides. Garnish with a richly varied Chipolata ragout 
(No. 190), and again, round this, place eight decorated quenelles; 
a dozen large cray-fish should also be placed up the centre, one over- 
laying another : glaze the pig and serve. 

644. EOAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA PEOVENCALE. 

Roast sixty large chestnuts, remove their husks while yet hot, and 
after pounding them in a mortar with four ounces of butter, rub the 
produce through a wire sieve, and put the puree into a stewpan ; add 
thereto a few chives, sweet-basil, parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf 
well chopped, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the yelks 
of three eggs ; mix well together, and use this preparation to fill the 
paunch of a plump sucking-pig, and roast it in the manner already 
directed. Then, cut it up and place it upon the dish, garnish the 
remove with a border of tomatas au gratin (No. 1160), pour some 
Gasconne or Provengale sauce under it, and send to table. 

645. EOAST SUCKING-PIG, A LA NAPOLITAINE. 

Take half a pound of polenta,* mix it in a stewpan with a quart of 
good consomme, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same 
quantity of butter ; season with uutmeg, pepper and salt ; stir the 
whole on the fire quickly till it boils, and then continue stirring it on 
the fire until it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, when add four 
ounces of picked Sultana raisins and a small pot of orange marmalade ; 
mix the whole lightly together, and with it fill the paunch of the 
sucking-pig : roast it in the usual way, divide and dish it up, garnish 
with a border of polpettes (No. 1062), pour a well-made Napolitaine 
sauce (No. 63) under the pig, glaze the remove, and send to table. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing different methods for dressing 
sucking-pigs, they may also be served a la Financiere, with Poivi'ade, 
Tomata, Maitre d'Hotel, Piquante, Robert, or Britonne sauce. 



BRAIZED HAMS, 

COMPRISING 

Braized Ham, with Spinach, &c. Westphalia Ham, roasted, d la St. James 

Westphalia Ham, d I'Exsence. „ d la Parisihme, 

„ baked. Granada and Bayonne Hams. 

646. BEAIZED HAM, WITH SPINACH, ETC. 

When about to dress a ham, care must be taken after it has been 
trimmed, and the thigh-bone removed, that it be put to soak in a large 

* A kind of farina much used in Italy, obtained from Indian corn. 



222 REMOVES OF HAM. 

pan filled with cold water; the length of time it should remain in 
soak, depending partly upon its degree of moisture, partly whether the 
ham be new or seasoned. If the ham readily yields to the pressure of 
the hand, it is no doubt new, and this is the case with most of those 
sold in London in the spriug season ; for such as these, a few hours' 
soaking will suffice ; but when hams are properly seasoned, they 
should be soaked for twenty-four hours. Foreign hams, however, 
require to be soaked much longer, varying in time from two to four 
days and nights. The water in which they are soaked should be 
changed once every twelve hours in winter, and twice during that time 
in summer : it is necessary to be particular also in scraping off the 
slimy surface from the hams, previously to replacing them in the water 
to finish soaking. 

When the ham has been trimmed and soaked, let it be boiled in 
water for an hour, and then scraped and washed in cold \yater ; place 
it in a braiziug-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, 
garnished fagot, two blades of mace, and four cloves ; moisten with 
sufficient common broth to float the ham, and then set it on the stove 
to braize very gently for about four hours. To obtain tenderness and 
mellowness, so essential in a well-dressed ham, it must never be allowed 
to boil, but merely to simmer very gently by a slow fire. This rule 
applies also to the braizing of all salted or cured meats. 

When the ham is done, draw the pan in which it has braized away 
from the fire, and set it to cool in the open air, allowing the ham to 
remain in the braize — by this means it will retain all its moisture — 
for when the ham is taken out of the braize as soon as done, and put 
on a dish to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham having 
partially cooled in its braize, should be taken out and trimmed, and 
afterward placed in a braizing-pan with sojne of its own stock ; and 
about three-quarters of an hour before diuner, put either in the oven 
or on a slow fire. When warmed through, place the ham on a baking- 
dish in the oven to dry the surface, then glaze it ; replace it in the 
oven again for about three minutes to dry it, and glaze it again ; by 
that time the ham, if properly attended to, will present a bright 
appearance. Put it now on its dish, and garnish it with well-dressed 
spinach (No. 1155), placed round the ham in table-spoonsful, shaped 
like so many eggs ; pour some bright Espagnole sauce round the base, 
put a ruffle on the bone, and serve. 

Note. — Any of our home-cured hams, dressed according to the fore- 
going directions, may also be served with a garnish of asparagus-peas, 
young carrots, a Jardiniere, Macedoine, green-peas, broad-beans, 
French-beans, or Brussels-sprouts. 

647. WESTPHALIA HAM, A L'ESSENCE. 

Trim and remove the thigh-bone from a Westphalia ham, and let it 
soak in cold water for two or three days, according to the probable 
length of time it may have been cured ; then boil it in water for an 
hour, and after having washed it iu cold water, put it into a large 
braizing-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, a 
fagot of parsley and green onions, thyme, sweet-basil, and bay-leaf, 
four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with two glasses of 
brandy, half a bottle of Sherry, and sufficient broth to float the ham. 



BRAIZED AND BAKED HAMS 223 

Then set the ham to boil, or rather to simmer, very gently on a slow 
fire, from five to six hours : taking care, during the process of braiz- 
ing, to probe it occasionally after the first four hours, in order thereby 
to ascertain how much longer it may be necessary for it to remain on 
the fire to effect the desired purpose. 

When the ham is braized sufficiently tender, and after it has been 
allowed to remain in its own liquor for an hour or so, drain it on to 
a dish, divest it of the rind to within four inches of the knuckle-bone : 
this portion of the rind must be cut with a small sharp knife, so as to 
form a neat design in the shape of leaves, palms, or scollops, disposed 
in a fanlike form. Trim the fat of the ham smooth, without removing 
any more of it than is really necessary to give it a neat appearance. 
Put the ham in the oven on a baking-sheet for ten minutes, first 
absorbing every particle of grease from the surface with a clean 
cloth ; then glaze it, replace it in the oven again for five minutes ; 
glaze it once more, and place it on its dish ; garnish it round with 
any of the dressed vegetables indicated for Braized Ham, with spinach, 
&c, (No. 646), sauce with bright Espagnole sauce, mixed before re- 
duction with a glass of Sherry, and about a pint of the liquor in which 
the ham has been braized ; place a ruffle on the bone, and send to 
table. 

648. WESTPHALIA HAM, BAKED. 

Trim, and partially bone, a "Westphalia ham, by removing the 
thigh-bone ; soak it, as usual, in cold water, for forty-eight hours, at 
least, and afterward boil it in water for half an hour ; this part of 
the operation should be executed in time to allow the ham to soak a 
day and night, previously to its being dressed in some wine mirepoix 
(Xo. 236) in a deep baking-dish. Cover the ham with two sheets of 
oiled paper, and over the whole lay a covering of paste, such as is 
used to cover venison with, and applied similarly to a pie-crust, 
taking care to secure it thoroughly all round, so as to prevent the 
escape of the volatile properties of the essence of the ham, &c, which 
by condensation, and subsequent absorption, impart to the ham that 
peculiarly fine flavor which renders this method of dressing hams so 
much esteemed by gastronomes. , Having prepared the ham in every 
particular according to the above directions, about five hours before 
dinner-time, let it be put in the oven to bake slowly, observing that 
the heat of the oven should be moderate, in order that the moisture 
be not reduced, so as to render the ham dry, which would spoil it en- 
tirely. When the ham has been in the oven about four hours, take it 
out of its braize, trim it, and then place it on a baking-sheet in the 
oven, to dry the surface ; glaze it in the usual manner, and after having 
clarified the mirepoix in which the ham has been baked, add as much 
thereof as will suffice to give flavor to some Espagnole sauce, reduce 
it to a proper consistency, and use it to pour round the ham when sent 
to table. Hams dressed according to the foregoing method, may be 
garnished as follows : — a la Financiere, a la Perigueux, a la PaiHsi- 
cnne, a la Maeedoine, a la Jardiniere, & la Flamande ; with stewed 
peas, asparagus-peas, young carrots, spinach, broad-beans, &c. 

Note. — If the ham, dressed as above, be intended to be eaten cold, 
it should be allowed to remain in its braize, until it becomes set in a 



224 



REMOVES OF HAM. 



jelly, it must be then taken out, trimmed, glazed, and dished up, with 
some aspic-jelly, made with the addition of the essence of ham. 

649. WESTPHALIA HAM, ROASTED A LA ST. JAMES 

Prepare a Westphalia ham in every respect according to the first 
part of the previous directions, and having allowed it to steep in the 
ntircpoix the allotted time, run a large iron skewer through it, and 
fasten it at each end on to the spit with string ; next reduce the mire- 
poix, vegetables, &c, of which it is composed, and cover the under 
part of the ham therewith ; then wrap the whole of the ham up with 
large sheets of cartridge-paper, previously veil oiled for the purpose ; 
over the paper put a covering of venison paste, as is usual when about 
to prepare venison for roasting. Cover the said coating of flour and 
water paste, with greased paper, and tie on this with string. About 
five hours before the ham is required for table, put it down to roast 
before a moderate fire ; when it bas been down about three hours and 
a half, take it up, make a hole in the paste, and, with a funnel, infuse 
half a pint of brandy, or, in preference to this, if you have it, as much 
Malaga wine ; stop the hole up with paste, and put the ham down to 
the fire to roast for twenty minutes longer ; then take it up, and remove 
it carefully from the spit, so as not to lose any portion of the essence 
contained within the coating of crust that surrounds the ham. Trim 
the ham, and set it to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven, glaze it and 
dish it up, using the essence reserved for the purpose, in order to give 
flavor to the sauce intended to be served with it. 

Westphalia haras, thus dressed, may be served with any of the 
garnishes described as appropriate for baked hams. 

650. BRAIZED HAM, A LA PARISIENNE 




Trim, soak, and boll a ham, either Westphalia or home-cured, as 
the case may be ; when it has boiled in water about an hour, take it 
up and put it into cold water, and after having scraped the rind clean, 
place it in an oval braizing-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head 
of celery, and garnished fagot of parsley, six cloves, and two blades 
of mace ; moisten with a glass of brandy and half a bottle of Sherry, 
and sufficient broth to cover the surface of the ham ; put the lid on, and 
as soon as it has boiled, set the pan on a slow fire, to continue gently 
braizing for about five hours and a half. When the ham is done, 
take it up and trim it, leaving, as usual, enough of the rind adhering 
to the knuckle part, and on this cut out (with the point of a sharp 



REMOVES OF VENISON. 225 

knife) an ornament resembling leaves, or scollops, spread out in a fan- 
like form ; glaze the ham, and put it on its dish, raised on an oval 
crdustade, two inches and a half high, formed to the shape of the ham, 
cut round in flutes, and fried of a light color ; round the base place a 
dozen or fifteen small fluted crbustades of fried bread, filled with green 
peas, asparagus-heads, carrots and turnips, scooped out. in the form of 
very small olives, and nicely glazed. Glaze the ham, put the paper 
ruffle on the bone, and serve. 

Send some bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence 
of ham, previous to reduction of the same, in a sauce-boat, to be served, 
with the ham from the sideboard, when it is carved. 

Note. — Granada, Bayonne, and foreign hams in general, are prepared 
for the table according to the directions given for dressing Westphalia 
hams. 



REMOVES OF YENISON, RED DEER, AND ROEBUCK, 



COMPRISING 



Haunch of Venison, d I'Anglaise. Haunch of Red Beer, d la Kinnaird. 

„ d V Allernande. Necks of Red Deer, d la Marie Stuart. 

„ d la St. George. „ d la St. Andrew. 

Haunch of Red Deer roasted, d V Ecossaise. Fillets of Red Deer, d la Royale. 

„ d la Glengarry. 

651. HAUNCH OF VENISON ROASTED, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Saw off" the shank-bone, remove the sinew, pare away the dark, dry 
skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Then 
cover the haunch with a large sheet of buttered paper, and over that 
place a covering of flour and water paste, about half an inch in thick- 
ness ; envelop the whole with two large sheets of cartridge-paper, and 
having fastened these on with string, place the venison on a cradle-spit, 
or, if that be wanting, the haunch of venison should be first put on 
the common spit, preparatory to its being covered as aforesaid. If the 
haunch be a fine one, it should be allowed from four hours to four and 
a half to roast, and about twenty minutes before it is done the paste 
and paper should be removed, and a little salt sprinkled over it. Then 
with a dredger-box shake over some flour to froth and color it ; baste 
it with four ounces of fresh butter, and about five minutes after take 
the haunch up from the fire, place it on its dish, pour a rich brown 
gravy under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone and send to table, with, a 
sauce-boat filled with sweet sauce (No. 65). 

652. HAUNCH OF VENISON, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Trim and remove the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, 
place it in an oval braizing-pan with four carrots, four onions, two 
heads of celery, a garnished fagot of parsley, six cloves, and two blades 
of mace ; moisten with a bottle of red wine, and sufficient broth to 
cover the surface of the venison ; lay on it a buttered paper, and put 
14 



226 REMOVES OF VENISON. 

on the lid, and after having allowed it to boil on a brisk stove-fire, 
place it in the oven or on a moderate fire to continue braizing very 
gently for about from five to six hours — taking care to moisten the 
surface frequently with its own braize. When the venison is done, 
take it up on a deep baking-dish, put about a pint of its own broth 
under it, trim it neatly and mask it all over with a thick coating of the 
following preparation : bake some slices of bread of a light-brown 
color, and afterward pound and sift them, put one pound of this into 
a basin, and add thereto half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, four 
ounces of fine sugar, and as much Port wine as will suffice to moisten 
the whole into a thick paste ; use this to cover the haunch of venison, 
smooth it over with the blade of a knife, and put it in the hot closet to 
dry the surface of the crust. When about to send to table, place the 
venison on a dish, pour some Victoria cherry sauce (No. 64) round it, 
garnish with alternate groups of prunes stewed in wine, and potato 
quenelles, put a ruffle on the bone and serve. 

653. "HAUNCH OF VENISON, A LA ST. GEORGE. 

Trim a haunch of venison in the usual manner, and with the point 
of a small knife make a circular incision about eight inches in diameter, 
just below the knuckle, on the upper part of the haunch, and with a 
large knife remove the surface of the part so marked out, in order to 
leave the place bare, preparatory to its being thickly and neatly larded 
as for a fricandeau. Then prepare the venison for braizing — in every 
respect following the directions given for that part of the process in 
the preceding article. Having carefully and frequently moistened the 
surface of the venison during the time it is braizing, and kept a supply 
of live embers of charcoal on the lid of the braizing-pan, the venison, 
when done, will present, if properly attended to, a bright appearance. 
It should then be taken up to drain on to a common dish, and after 
being glazed and dished up with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), 
in a Poiurade sauce made with Port wine, garnish the haunch with 
eight ornamental silver skewers, each furnished with a large double 
white cock's-comb, a large black truffle, a crayfish, and a decorated 
quenelle ; put a handsome ruffle on the bone, and send to table. 

654. HAUNCH OF RED DEER ROASTED, A L'ECOSSAISE. 

Prepare and roast this kind of venison as described for dressing a 
haunch of venison a VAnglaise; observing that it is necessary to 
allow it to hang longer than any other sort before dressing it, as it 
will be found to eat tough if due attention be not paid to the time of 
keeping it. 

655. HAUNCH OF RED DEER, A LA GLENGARRY. 

Trim and remove the whole of the chine-bone of a haunch of red 
deer, saw off the shank, and scrape the leg-bone so as to show about 
an inch. Then pare off the whole of the surface (excepting the fat 
part) in an oval form, and lard it closely like a fricandeau ; place the 
haunch in a large earthen pan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, 
bay-leaves and thyme, cloves, mace, and bruised peppercorns, adding 
to these a gallon of common vinegar, a handful of salt, and half a gal- 
lon of water ; let the haunch steep in this pickle for about ten days, 



HAUNCH AND NECK OF RED DEER. 227 

taking care to turn it over twice a-day, and at the expiration of that 
time, the venison will be fit for dressing. 

After the venison has been marinaded, place it in a large oval 
braizing-pan, and garnish with four carrots, four onions, four heads of 
celery, two garnished fagots of parsley, &c, eight cloves, and four 
blades of mace ; moisten with a bottle of Madeira, and three large 
ladlesful of good broth : cover with a sheet of thick brown paper well 
buttered, let it boil, and then place the lid on with live embers of 
charcoal upon it, and put the pan on a moderate stove-fire to braize 
gently for seven hours — moistening the larding of the venison fre- 
quently with its own liquor, by which means, when the venison is done, 
it will be nicely glazed. It should now be taken up on to a baking 
sheet, and placed in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding : 
then glaze and dish it up. Pour a well-made Poivrade sauce (No. 29) 
under it, garnish it round with quenelles of grouse, bread-crumbed and 
fried, and at each end place groups of venison fry ; put a ruffle on the 
leg-bone, and send to table with sweet sauce, separately in a boat. 

656. HAUNCH OF RED DEER, A LA KINNAIRD. 

Prepare and dress a haunch of red deer exactly as the foregoing ; 
when done, glazed and dished up, garnish it round with alternate 
groups of fried potatoes (cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in 
clarified butter) and round potato croquettes ; pour a well-made sweet 
sauce (No. 66) under it, and send to table. 

657. NECKS OF RED DEER, A LA MARIE STUART. 

To make a handsome remove, two necks are required ; from these, 
saw off the chine-bones and shorten the ribs to about five inches in 
length ; then remove the whole of the sinewy covering from the meaty 
part of the necks, leaving a perfectly even surface, which must be 
larded closely in the usual manner — observing that when about trim- 
ming the necks of deer, care must be taken to leave the whole of the 
fat that covers the ribs. When the necks have been larded, marinade 
them in the pickle prescribed for the haunch ; and allow them to steep 
in this about six days and nights, when they will be ready for dressing. 
Take them out and prepare them for braizing in like manner to the 
haunch, proceeding in all respects the same way. "When done, take 
them up on to a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven to dry the 
larding for a few minutes, glaze them, and place them on their dish in 
the form of a Ghevaux-de-frise : this is effected by placing the necks 
on their base, and allowing the rib-bones to fall over, or between each 
other, showing the larded parts outside. Garnish them with a Parisian 
ragout (No. 203), and a border of quenelles of pheasant a la Richelieu 
(No. 1004), at each end : and along the ridge occasioned by the 
meeting of the rib-bones, place a line of trimmed crayfish ; glaze the 
larding of the venison, and serve. 

658. NECKS OF RED DEER, A LA ST. ANDREW. 

Prepare and braize two necks of red deer in the manner last men- 
tioned ; when done, glaze and dish them up after the same directions ; 
garnish with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), with Poivrade 
sauce : surround them with a border of quenelles of grouse, decorated 



228 REMOVES OF TURKEY. 

with truffles ; at each end place a crbustade of bread cut in the shape 
of a vase, and fried of a light color, and fill it with a group of four 
large truffles ; and on the flanks of the dish, put a group of large cray- 
fish : glaze the larding, and send to table. 

659. FILLETS OF RED DEER, A LA ROYALE. 

Take out the fillets of two necks of red deer, which must be cut with 
part of the loin adhering to them ; trim and lard them all over the 
upper surface, after which steep them in a marinade (No. 233) for six 
days. Then proceed to dress them in the same manner as directed for 
the haunch d la Glengarry. When the fillets are done, take them out 
of their braize on to a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven for a 
few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze them nicely, and afterward 
dish them up, side-by-side, on an oval croustade of fried bread, about 
two inches high, and cut round in flutes ; garnish with a ragout com- 
posed as follows : braize six pork sausages, and after they have been 
allowed to cool, cut them up and throw the pieces into a large bain- 
marie ; to these add an equal quantity of round balls of streaky bacon 
(previously braized), some button mushrooms and green gherkins. A 
rich Poivrade sauce must be poured on the ingredients ; let the whole 
boil on the stove-fire for two miuutes, pour the ragout round the fillets, 
and place a border of quenelles of potatoes (No.- 312) (rolled in fried 
bread-crumbs) round the edge of the dish, and serve. 



REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPONS, 

COMPRISING 

Roast Turkey, d la PSrigord. Capon, d la Macf.doine. 

„ d la Chipolata. „ d la Printanih-e. 

„ d V Anglaise. „ d I'lvoire. 

„ d la Financiire. „ on gros sel. 

Boiled Turkey, with Celery sauce. „ <i I'Estragon. 

„ with Oyster sauce. „ d la PSrigord. 

Capon stuffed with Truffles, d la PSrigord. „ aud Rice. 

„ d la Godard. „ d la Milanaise. 

„ d la Chipolata. „ with Macaroni. 

„ d V Anglaise. „ with Nonilles. 
„ d la Jardinih-e. 

660. ROAST TURKEY, A LA PERIGORD. 

For this purpose, choose a fine young hen turkey, make an incision 
at the back of the neck, and through it draw out the entrails, &c. ; 
with a knife cut away the vent and close the opening thus made, by 
sewing it up with twine, then singe off the hairs, and by scalding the 
legs, divest them of their black skin. The neck should then be cut off 
close into the back, and the crop left entire ; clip the talons and claws, 
wipe the turkey clean, and lay it upon a napkin. With a strong kitchen 
knife break the breast-bone, and after detaching the angular part, 
remove it with the fingers. Previous to this operation, some truffles 
should be prepared as follows, to be used in stuffing the turkey : — 

Have about four pounds of truffles thoroughly washed; peel aud 



ROAST TURKEY. 229 

cut them into pieces the size of a small walnut ; place these in a stew- 
pan, and after pounding the parings with about two pounds of fat ham 
or bacon, add them to the truffles. Season with minionette pepper 
and salt, grated nutmeg and chopped bay-leaf and thyme, and one clove 
of garlic ; a few fat livers of poultry may also be added, after being 
pounded separately. Set the stewpan containing the foregoing ingre- 
dients on a slow fire, and allow them to simmer very gently for about 
half an hour, stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. They 
should be removed from the stove, and after allowing this preparation 
time to get partially set by cooling, proceed to stuff" the turkey with 
it ; keep the crop full, and with a small trussing-ueedle and twine draw 
the crop up in a purselike form, and fasten the ends of the twine to 
the back of the turkey so as effectually to close up the paunch. The 
turkey must then be placed upon an earthen dish, and put away in the 
larder till the next day, (time permitting,) when it should be trussed 
in the usual manner for roasting. 

The turkey when placed on a spit for roasting should have the 
breast covered with thin layers of fat bacon, and the entire of the 
turkey should be carefully wrapped round with thick paper well 
buttered, and securely fastened on to the spit at each end with string. 
It should then be roasted, and care should be taken when about to 
remove it from the spit, that the crop is not torn. Dish up, and glaze 
it, pour under it a rich Perigueux sauce (No. 23), garnish with large 
quenelles of fowl, and truffles, and serve. The quenelles and truffles 
are, however, not indispensable to the completion of this remove. 

661. ROAST TURKEY, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Draw and prepare a turkey for stuffing, fill it with well-seasoned 
veal stuffing and chestnuts, or, if preferred, pork sausage-meat may be 
substituted for the veal stuffing. 

The chestnuts are prepared as follows : — Take about sixty chestnuts, 
and after splitting them across the outer skin, fry them with a little 
butter in a frying-pan until they shed their husks easily ; when peeled, 
boil them in a little good consomme till done ; half should then be re- 
served to be put in the sauce, and the remainder used as directed above. 

The turkey being thus prepared, truss and cover with thin layers 
of fat bacon as directed in the foregoing case, and having roasted it of 
a light color, dish it up and garnish with alternate groups of the 
ingredients composing the Chipolata ragout (No. 190), pour some of 
the sauce round the remove, and send to table. 

662. ROAST TURKEY, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Stuff a turkey with some well-seasoned veal stuffing, let it be trussed 
in the usual manner, and previously to putting it down to roast, cover 
it with thin layers of fat bacon, which should be secured on with 
buttered paper tied round the turkey, so as entirely to envelop it on 
the spit ; then roast it, and when done, dish it up, garnish with stewed 
chestnuts, and small pork sausages, nicely fried ; pour a rich Poivrade 
sauce (No. 29) round it, glaze the turkey, and send to table. 

663. ROAST TURKEY, A LA FINANCIERE. 

The turkey may be stuffed either with veal stuffing or quenelle of 
fowl ; it should be roasted in the usual manner, and when done, dished 



230 REMOTES OF TURKEY 

up and garnished with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188) ; at each end 
place a larded sweetbread, and -at the sides, a sweetbread decorated 
with scollops of truffles inserted in the form of a rose ; between these 
should be placed groups of large truffles and quenelles of fowl ; glaze 
the turkey and send to table. 

As this is rather a sumptuous kind of garnish, suitable for great 
occasions only, the sweetbreads, large truffles, &c, may be dispensed 
with, and the Financiere ragout onlv retained. 

664. BOILED TURKEY, WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Draw a fine young hen turkey, and remove the angular part of the 
breast-bone, stuff it with veal stuffing, and truss it for boiling; wrap 
some buttered paper round it, and place it in an oval braizing-pan with 
carrot, onion, one head of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; 
add as much white poele (No. 230), or white stock, as will suffice to 
cover the turkey, then set it on a stove to boil ; it should after that 
be removed to the side, or placed on a slackened stove to continue 
gently boiling till done ; then take it up out of the braize, remove all 
the string, &c, and set it to drain upon a napkin ; dish it up, pour over 
it a well-made puree of celery (No. 110), place round it some stewed 
heads of celery, and send to table. 

665. BOILED TURKEY, WITH OYSTER SAUCE. 

The turkey should be boiled as directed in the last article ; when 
done, dish it up, and previously to sending it to table, pour over it 
some well-made oyster-sauce (No. 50), and serve. 

666. CAPON STUFFED WITH TRUFFLES, A LA PERIGORD. 

This should be prepared according to the directions given for 
dressing a turkey after the same fashion (No. 660). 

667. CAPON, A LA GODARD. 

The capon being drawn and singed, trim the feet and wings ; then 
remove the angular part of the breast-bone by inserting a strong- 
bladed knife, taking care not to tear the breast nor cut the fillets. 
Next, cut the under part of the thighs close up to the bend of the 
joint, and by introducing the finger through the vent, loosen the skin 
all round the thighs in order to facilitate the slipping of the legs inside, 
so as to show the feet only. Then lay the capon flat on its breast, 
and having turned the skin of the breast upon the back, and twisted 
the pinions round to make them lie even with the back, run a trussing- 
needle and string through the pinion on the left, pass again through 
the lower joint of the pinion, and from thence through the upper joints 
of the thighs; the needle must afterward be brought round and 
inserted through the other wing in the same manner ; the strings 
should then be drawn tight, and fastened. The legs must now be 
secured by running the needle through the upper part, leaving the 
drum-slicks under, and then again the needle should be drawn through 
the back, and t*he strings tightened to secure their position ; the tail- 
end must be pushed into the vent, and the string passed through 
it twice (up and down), and tied : all this giving to the capon an 
appearance of plumpness. It should then be rubbed with half a lemon, 
and wrapped in a sheet of buttered paper (to keep it white), and 



AND CAPONS. 



231 




placed in a stew-pan with some white poele or stock, to braize ; for 
which purpose it must be first put on the stove-fire, and after it has 
boiled, placed by the side to continue gently simmering for about au 
hour and a quarter. Just before dinner-time, take the capon out of 
the braize, and drain it on to a napkin ; remove the strings, ornament 
the breast with some contises fillets of fowls, dish it up and garnish it 
with a richly-composed ragout a la Godard (No. 187), and serve. 

When this remove is intended for a large party, it will be necessary 
to serve two capons ; in which case, an ornamental croustade of bread 
should be put in the centre of the dish, and the capons at each end, 
placing at either end of the dish, a fine, larded heart-sweetbread ; two 
nicely-trimmed calf's ears with a black truffle on each, should also be 
placed on the flanks. Fill up the intervening spaces with groups of 
quenelles of fowl, large truffles, cocks'-combs and mushrooms ; in the 
centre of the croustade put either a larded sweetbread, or a group of 
truffles — or these may be replaced by inserting six ornamental skewers 
garnished each with a large double cock's-comb, a mushroom, a truffle, 
a quenelle, and a large cray-fish. Sauce the remove with Allemande 
or Bechamel, and serve. 

668. CAPONS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

These are dressed in the same way as turkeys d la Chipolata 
(No. 66). 

669. CAPONS, A l'anglaise. 

Truss and boil two plump capons, and when they are done, dish 
them up, placing a neatly-trimmed tongue between them ; garnish 
round with boiled heads of broccoli or cauliflower, sauce the capons 
with a rich Bechamel sauce (No. 5), glaze the tongue and serve. 

670. CAPONS, A LA JARDINIERE. 

These should be boiled and dished up as in the foregoing case. 
Garnish them with alternate groups of prepared vegetables, sacli .is 



232 REMOVES OF CAPONS. 

small carrots, turnips, flowerets of cauliflower, green peas, asparagus 
heads, and French-beans cut in the form of diamonds. Sauce the 
capons with Bechamel sauce, glaze the tongue and serve. In some 
cases the tongue may be replaced by an ornamental croustade of bread, 
fried of a light color, and filled with mashed potatoes, in which 
should be inserted some young carrots, and French-beans (cut in the 
form of pointed olives), and placed in alternate rows. 

671. CAPONS, A LA MACEDOINE. 

This method is very similar to the foregoing, with this exception, 
that the capons, when dished up, should be garnished with a welk 
prepared Macedoine (No. 143) ; a border of very small heads of cauli- 
flowers and bundles of sprue asparagus about two inches long, should 
also be placed alternately round the edges of the dish ; sauce with 
Allemande and serve. 

672. CAPONS, A LA PRINTANIERE. 

Truss and boil two fat capons, and when they are done, dish them 
up with a nicely trimmed and glazed tongue, in the centre ; sauce 
them with a Printaniere sauce (No. 21); garnish them round with a 
border of small deep cups, cut out of young turnips ; these when 
boiled in white broth with a little butter, sugar, and salt, should be 
drained on a napkin, and filled with carrots scooped out in the form 
of very small peas or olives, and also with young green-peas : these 
cups when disposed alternately round the dish, will be foond to pro- 
duce a very pretty effect. 

673. CAPONS, A l'ivoire. 

Tfiese must be trussed and braized in fche usual manner, and when 
done, the broth in which they have been braized should be strained 
through a sieve, then divested of every particle of grease, and clarified 
with a little white of egg. After this has been strained, it should be 
boiled down to the consistency of half-glaze, and when the capons are 
dished up, should be poured over them, and sent to table. It is also 
customary in serving this remove to use a rich Supreme sauce (No. 38), 
with small quenelles of fowl for garnish. 

674. CAPON, AU GROS SEL. 
This is dressed in the manner described in the first part of the fore- 
going article; a little rock salt should, however, be placed upon the 
breast, just before sending it to table. 

675. CAPON, A l'estragon. 
Braize the capon in the usual way ; when done, the broth in 
which it has been braized must be clarified, and a few sprigs of green 
tarragon thrown into it while boiling ; the consomme should tnen be 
strained through a napkin, and boiled down nearly to the consistency 
of half-glaze, to be poured over the capon when served. Some leaves 
of green tarragon must be boiled for a minute or two in water, and 
used to ornament the breast of the capon. 

676. CAPON and rice. 
After the capon has been drawn, wash the inside thoroughly clean, 
and absorb all the moisture with a napkin. Then nearly fill the capon 



BOILED CAPONS. 233 

with rice, boiled quite soft in white broth, and mixed with a spoonful 
of white sauce ; it should afterward be trussed for boiling, and placed 
in an oval stewpan, with an onion stuck with two cloves, and a carrot. 
Add as much white broth as will cover the breast of the fowl, over 
which lay an oval piece of buttered paper ; place the lid on the stew- 
pan, and about an hour before it is wanted set it to boil gently on a 
slow fire. When done, drain the fowl, and having removed the strings, 
place it upon its dish, garnish it round neatly with rice, previously 
boiled in white broth, to which has been added a large spoonful of 
white sauce, two yelks of eggs, a little mignionette pepper, grated nut- 
meg, and a small pat of fresh butter. Work the rice over a brisk stove- 
fire for five minutes, and then, with two table-spoons, mould it into the 
form of large eggs, and place these round the capon in a close border : 
sauce the capon with Supreme or Bechamel sauce, and serve. 

If the capon is intended to be served plain, the sauce, &c, must be 
omitted, and instead of masking it with sauce, pour some essence of 
fowl under it ; this may be obtained by clarifying some of the broth 
in which it has boiled, and afterward boiling it down to the consistency 
of half-glaze. 

677. CAPON" A LA MILANAISE. 

Truss and boil a capon in the usual way, and when done, dish it up, 
and garnish it with a ragout of macaroni dressed with truffles, red 
tongue, and mushrooms ; place a border of rissoles (No. 1020) round 
the dish, and serve. 

678. CAPON WITH MACAEONI. 

Boil the capon as directed for the capons d la Godard; dish it up, 
and garnish it with macaroni, prepared as follows : — Boil half a pound 
of Naples macaroni in two quarts of water, with a small pat of butter, 
a little salt and mignionette pepper; when it is done, drain it in a 
colander, cut the pipes into pieces, two inches long, and put them into 
a stewpan, with 6 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, two pats "of butter, a 
little mignionette pepper, and a large spoonful of white sauce ; stir the 
macaroni, or rather toss it, over a brisk fire, and when the cheese is 
incorporated with the sauce, &c, use it as directed; mask the breast 
of the capon with Bechamel, and serve. 

679. CAPON WITH NOUILLES.* 

Braize the capon as directed in the foregoing article, and when 
done, dish it up, and garnish round with the nouilles, previously pre- 
pared for the purpose, in the following manner : — Parboil the nouilles 
in water for five minutes, throw them on to a sieve to drain the water 
from them, and afterward replace them in the stewpan ; season with 
mignionette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter ; moisten 
with about a quart of good broth, cover with a round of buttered paper, 
place the lid on the stewpan, and set the nouilles to simmer gently on 

• Nouilles are a kind of vermicelli prepared in the following manner: Place six ounces 
of sifted flour upon a marble slab or paste-board; make a well in the centre by spreading 
the flour out in the form of a ring with the back of the hand; then place therein a little 
salt, and add a tea-spoonful of water to melt it; after which, add the yelks of five eggs, 
and knead the whole well together into a firm, smooth, compact paste ; and after allowing 
it to rest for ten minutes, roll it out as thin as paper, and then divide it into bands three 
inches wide, cut these into very fine shreds, and spread them upon a large sieve to dry. 



234 REMOVES OF CHICKENS. 

a slow fire for about an hour ; then remove the paper, and add a ragout- 
spoonful of Allemande sauce and two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, and then 
use them as before directed ; sauce the poulard, or capon, with Supreme 
or Allemande sauce, and serve. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing capons, they may 
also be served with celery-sauce, oyster, green Bavigotte sauce, or with 
cray-fish, or Financiere ragouts. 

Poulards are dressed in the same manner as capons. 



CHICKENS FOR REMOVES OR FLANKS, 

COMPRISING 

Chickens, d la Heine. Chickens, d la Florentine. 

„ d Vllalie'nne. „ d la Cardinal. 

„ d la Sauce Tomate. „ d V Allemande. 

„ d la Vinitihme. „ d I'Indihine. 

„ d la Dauphine. „ d V Africaine. 

„ d la Montmorency. „ d la Turque. 

„ d la JUilanaise. „ d I'JEspagnole. 

„ d la Chivry. 

680. CHICKENS, A LA REINE. 

Truss two small spring chickens for boiling, rub them over with 
lemon-juice, and wrap them up separately in a sheet of thickly-but- 
tered paper ; then place the chickens in a stewpan, with a garnished 
faggot of parsley, a carrot, and an onion stuck with two cloves ; 
moisten with some of the surface of the boiling stockpot, in sufficient 
quantity to nearly cover the chickens ; set them to boil gently for 
about forty minutes, when they will be done. When about to send 
to table, drain the chickens upon a napkin, and after having removed 
the paper and string, dish them up side by side, and cover them with 
Supreme sauce, garnish the dish with four groups of very small que- 
nelles of fowl, and serve. 

681. CHICKENS, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Truss and boil two small chickens according to the foregoing direc- 
tions ; when done, divest them of the paper, and dish them up ; sauce 
with a rich brown Italian sauce (No. 12), garnish with a border of 
mushrooms farcis (No. 1161), and serve. 

682. CHICKENS WITH TOMATA SAUCE. 

These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, with this 
exception, that, when dished up, they must be sauced with a well- 
finished tomata sauce (No. 22), and a border of tomatas ail gratin 
(No. 1160) should be placed round them. 

683. CHICKENS, A LA VENITIENNE. 

The chickens, when boiled and dished up, must be sauced with a 
Veaitienne (No. 26), and garnished with a border of raviolis (No. 375). 



REMOTES OF CHICKENS. 



235 



684. CHICKENS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Draw two spring chickens, proceed to bone them as for "galantines," 
excepting that the legs and wings must be left entire. The void must 
be then filled with quenelle of fowl, in which has been mixed some 
chopped mushrooms and parsley ; the chickens should afterward be 
trussed, taking care to give them the same shape as they would have 
were the bones not removed; and after rubbing them over with lemon- 
juice, cover the breasts with thin layers of fat bacon, and secure their 
shape by wrapping them in sheets of buttered paper; then place them 
in a stewpan, with carrot, onion, and a garnished faggot ; moisten with 
some light mirepoix (No. 236), and set the chickens to simmer very 
gently by the side of a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour; 
when done, drain them upon a napkin, remove the string, &c, and dish 
them up ; sauce them with the clarified essence in which they have 
been braized, and serve. 

It is also customary to serve chickens, fowls, capons, or poulards, 
when prepared in this fashion, with ragouts, a la Financiere, a la 
Parisienne, with Macedoine, or Jardinieres of vegetables, Italian, 
Poivrade, Tomata, or Supreme sauces. 

685. CHICKENS, A LA MONTMORENCY. 




Truss two or more chickens (as may be required), and let their 
breasts be entirely covered with close larding ; next place them in a 
stewpan containing a wine mirepoix (No.. 236), covering the unlarded 
parts with thin layers of fat bacon ; add as much good consomme as 
will suffice to reach up to the larding, cover the chickens with a round 
of buttered paper, and set them to braize gently on a slow fire, taking 
care that the lid of the stewpan be covered with live embers of char- 
coal, to effect the glazing of the larding. When the chickens are done, 
dish them up, garnish them with a white ragout a la Financiere (No. 
1ST), or a ragout a la Parisienne (No. 203), and serve. 



536 REMOVES OF CHICKENS. 

Chickens, a la Montmorency, may also be dished up with an orna- 
mental croustade in the centre, in which should be fixed five atelets, 
garnished as shown in the wood-cut, p. 235. 

686. CHICKENS, A LA MILANAISE. 

These should be trussed and boiled, and wheu done, dished up with 
a ragout a la Milanaise, see Capon a la Milanaise (No. 677) ; they 
may also be garnished with a border of rissoles (No. 1020). 

687. CHICKENS, A LA CHIVBY. 

Truss the chickens so as to look very plump, boil or braize them 
in some white poele (No. 231) or broth ; and when done, dish them up 
in the following manner : — Some small rings of onions about the size 
of a shilling should be first boiled in white broth, then filled with 
blanched ravigotte of chives, tarragon, and chervil, and afterward used 
to ornament the breasts of the chickens. Place these in their dish, 
pour under them a Chivry or Ravigotte sauce (No. 20), and send to 
table. 

688. CHICKENS, A LA FLORENTINE. 

Truss two chickens, and lard the breasts very closely with black 
truffles cut into strips, which must be used instead of bacon for this 
purpose ; the chickens should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon, 
(to prevent the truffles from drying and breaking off), then braized 
in white broth, and when done, dished up with an ornamental crdus- 
tade of bread fried of a light-brown color, and placed in the centre of 
the dish, garnish with alternate groups of small quenelles of fowl 
colored with lobster spawn, truffles cut in-. the form of olives, mush- 
rooms, large double cocks'-combs, and small croquettes of rice mixed 
with a little grated Parmesan cheese ; sauce the chickens, without 
masking the breasts, with some Allemande sauce, in which have 
been added two table-spoonsful of tomata sauce, and a little Chili 
vinegar. Fill the croustade with trimmed crayfish tails tossed in a 
little of the sauce, and serve. If this dish be intended for a grand 
dinner, four ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a double cocks'- 
comb, truffles, decorated quenelle, and a cray-fish, may be inserted in 
the croustade. 

689. CHICKENS, A LA CARDINAL. 

Draw two chickens, taking care to leave the crop entire, cut off the 
feet two inches from the joint of the leg, and make an incision just 
under the thigh ; insert the legs inside, and then put the chickens in 
a basin of cold water to soak for a quarter of an hour ; after which, 
with the aid of the forefinger, detach the skin as much as possible from 
the breasts and legs of the chickens without tearing it ; they must 
then be placed upon a napkin, and all the water absorbed from them ; 
after which the interstices between the skin and fillets, &c, should be 
covered with some quenelle of fowl colored of a deep red with lobster 
spawn. The chickens are then to be trussed for boiling in the usual 
manner, being covered with thin layers of fat bacon, to protect the 
skin while braizing ; place them in a stewpan with the customary 
vegetables, &c, moisten with white broth, and set them to braize very 
gently on a slow fire ; care must be taken to prevent their boiling 



BOILED CHICKENS. 



237 








fast, as in that case the quenelle, would burst the skins. When clone, 
dish them up with an ornamental fried bread croustade in the centre 
of the dish; garnish with small groups of glazed truffles, cocks'-combs, 
large quenelles of fowl decorated with truffles, button-mushrooms and 
cray-fish tails, and at each end place a larded sweetbread ; sauce with 
some Cardinal sauce (Xo. 48), insert four garnished ornamental silver 
skewers into the croustade, and serve. 

600. CHICKEN'S, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

These must be trussed and boiled as usual, and when done, dished 
up with a border of quenelles of potatoes (Xo. 812), first poached, 
then covered with fried bread-crumbs, and placed round the chickens ; 
sauce them with a rich AUemande sauce (Xo. 7), and send to table. 

601. CHICKENS, A L'IXDIENNE. 

Truss two chickens for boiling, lard the breasts closely, and place 
them in a conveniently-sized stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck 
with two cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley, &c; add some good 
stock in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, place a buttered 
paper over the chickens, and having put the lid on the stewpan, set 
them to braize gently, with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid 
of the pan : about forty minutes will suffice to do them. Then remove 
the paper, and after drying the larding in the oven for a minute or two, 
glaze the chickens nicely, dish them up, garnish them round with a 
border of rice croquettes formed in the shape of an ^^, and between 
each croquette place a minion fillet of fowl decorated with tongue, sauce 
them round with some Financiere sauce (Xo. 8), in which have been 
added two mangoes sliced small, and serve. 

692. CHICKENS, A L'AFRICAINE. 

Prepare the chickens in the same way as for d la Cardinal, and 
detach the skins in the same manner, fill up the interstices between 



238 REMOVES OF CHICKENS. 

the skin and fillets, with some forcemeat of fowl in which has been 
mixed sufficient puree of truffles (No v 121) to color it ; the chickens 
must then be trussed as for boiling, and after being covered with thin 
layers of fat bacon, should be braized, and when done, dished up side 
by side. Garnish them round with alternate groups of very small 
quenelles, half of which must be colored with chopped truffles and the 
remainder with lobster coral ; sauce with a Financiere ragout (No. 
188), in a Poivrade sauce (No. 29), and serve. 

693. CHICKENS, A LA TURQUE. 

These must be trussed, boiled, and dished up as usual ; they should 
then be garnished with a close border of rice boiled in broth, with a 
little saffron and Cayenne pepper ; place round the rice alternate groups 
of Smyrna raisins stewed in a little Malaga wine, and tongue cut into 
small pipelike forms about half an inch long ; pour a lightly-seasoned 
curry sauce (No. 47) over the chickens, and serve. 

694. CHICKENS A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Truss two chickens as for boiling, then take a deep fricandeau pan, 
spread it thickly with butter, and lay therein, in circular order, a dozen 
pieces of raw ham cut in the shape and about twice the thickness of a 
crown-piece ; upon these place the chickens, and garnish with carrot, 
onion, faggot of parsley, a clove of garlic, a little grated nutmeg, pepper 
and salt ; cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and then set them 
upon a moderate fire (with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid), 
to simmer for about forty minutes : taking care to turn the chickens 
occasionally, in order that they may be equally colored of a light brown 
all over. This being done, the butter should be drained off from the 
chickens, and the vegetables removed ; then add a glass of Sherry or 
Madeira, two spoonfuls of Tomata sauce (No. 22), and the same quan- 
tity of Brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, lemon-juice, and a little 
Cayenne pepper. Let the whole simmer together on the fire for five 
minutes, then draw the strings from the chickens, and dish them up ; 
garnish them round with the pieces of ham placed alternately with a 
crouton of the same shape ; round these place four groups of Spanish- 
peas (garbangas) boiled and divested of the hulls, and some dressed 
tomatas au gratin (No. 1161) ; pour the sauce over the chickens and 
Berve. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing chickens for small 
Removes, Flanks, or Entrees, they may also be served with rice, 
macaroni, nouilles, oyster sauce, a VAnglaise, a VIvoire, a VEstragon, 
&c, and indeed in every variety of form described for dressing capons. 



239 



REMOVES OF GOOSE, 

COMPRISING 

Goose, d V Anglaise. Goose, d la Normande. 

„ d V Estouffade. Wild Goose, d V Aberdeen. 
„ d la Flamande. „ d I'Allemande. 

„ d I'Allemande. Cygnets. 
„ d la Danphinoise. „ d la NoruricK. 

695. GOOSE, A l'anglaise. 

Draw a fine fat goose, and stuff it with the following seasoning : — 
Chop six large onions and about one third of the quantity of green- 
sage-leaves ; parboil these in water for three minutes, then drain them 
upon a sieve, and afterward put them into a small stewpan with two 
ounces of butter, pepper and salt, and allow the whole to simmer 
gently over a slow fire for a few minutes, stirring the seasoning the 
whole of the time with a wooden spoon. When the goose is stuffed, 
truss it for roasting, run the spit through it, then fasten it on by 
the means of a strong iron skewer laid upon the back of the goose, 
and secured at each end with string. The goose should now be put 
down to the fire to roast, which will require about an hour and a half, 
according to its size — taking particular care to baste it frequently ; 
when done, take it off the spit, dish it up with a rich brown gravy 
under it, and send to table with a boat of apple-sauce. 

696. GOOSE, a l'estouffade. 

Draw a fine fat young goose, and stuff it in the following manner : — 
Parboil two 'large onions and chop them fine; to these add six sage- 
leaves, and a proportionate quantity of green thyme and mugwort : 
these also must first be parboiled and then chopped. Put the onions 
and the herbs into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter, a little 
grated nutmeg, pepper and salt ; and set the whole to stew gently on 
a very slow fire for about ten minutes. Then put the stuffing into 
the goose, and truss it in the usual way ; place it in an oval stewpan 
with half-a-pound of butter, a garnished faggot of parsley, an onion 
stuck with four cloves, one head of celery, and a carrot cut into slices, 
and moisten with two glasses of Sherry. Put the lid on the stewpan, 
place it on a slow fire, with some live embers of charcoal and ashes on 
the lid, and allow the goose to simmer gently for about an hour and 
a half, taking particular care to turn it, so as to give it an equal color 
all over. When done, pour off all the fat, and a ragout-spoonful of 
reduced brown sauce, and a little consomme to detach the glaze from 
the sides of the stewpan ; and having allowed it to boil quickly, in 
order to reduce the sauce to its usual consistency, the goose should be 
dished up, and garnished round with a border of glazed turnips ; then 
pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

This dish may also be garnished with macaroni, with glazed carrots, 
or onions. 



240 REMOVES OF GOOSE. 

697. GOOSE, A LA FLAMANDE. 

Truss and braize a goose ; when done, dish it up and garnish it 
round with alternate groups of glazed carrots, turnips, Brussels- 
sprouts, and indeed almost every variety of vegetables in season, pre- 
viously prepared for the purpose ; glaze the goose, and pour some 
bright brown sauce (with the addition of some of the braize in which 
it has been done, reduced to a glaze for that purpose) round the vege- 
tables, and send to table. 

698. GOOSE, A l'allemande. 

Procure a double-handful of mugwort, rub off all the buds, and 
blanch them in boiling water for two minutes ; then drain and put 
them into a small stewpan, with a large onion chopped fine, a little 
grated nutmeg, pepper and salt and four ounces of butter; set these 
to simmer gently on the fire, for ten minutes, and having put this 
stuffing in the goose, truss and place it in an oval stewpan with four 
ounces of butter, and set it on a moderate fire, with some live embers 
on the lid. Care should be taken to turn the goose every now and 
then, so as to give it an equal color all over. When it is done, pour 
off all the grease, add the juice of one lemon and one orange, together 
with the peel of an orange eut into very thin shreds previously par- 
boiled in water ; add also a spoonful of brown sauce and a little 
consomme. Allow these to boil together for two or three minutes, 
dish up the goose, garnish it round with groups of potatoes — cut into 
the shape of large olives and fried in butter — pour the sauce over the 
goose, and send to table. 

699. GOOSE, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

Stuff a goose with chestnuts prepared as follows : — Slit, scald, and 
peel about sixty large chestnuts ; put them into a stewpan with two 
ounces of butter, a little salt, and a quart of good broth, one shalot, 
chopped fine, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; set the chestnuts to 
stew upon a slow fire, and when they are done, put them in the goose 
and truss it. Then place the goose in a deep earthen dish, moisten 
with a wine mirepoix (No. 236), and cover the dish effectually with 
some stiff-made flour-and-water paste, so as entirely to prevent the 
aroma of the several ingredients from escaping. Set it in the oveu 
to bake for about two hours, and when it is done, remove the crust, 
dish up the goose, strain the gravy through a sieve into a stewpan, 
skim off every particle of grease, and then boil it down to the bare 
quantity required for saucing; to this add the juice of two oranges 
and one lemon, half a pound of currant jelly, and some orange peel 
shred fine ; boil the whole together for two minutes, then pour the 
sauce over the goose, and send to table. 

700. GOOSE, A LA NORMANDE. 

Chop one large onion fine, blanch, and afterward drain it upon a 
sieve ; then fry it with a little butter of a light brown color, and 
mix it with mashed potatoes, in sufficient quantity to stuff the goose ; 
this being done, truss it and roast it in the usual manner, and when 
removed from the spit, dish it up ; garnish it round with a border of 
small rouud apples neatly turned, and stewed with a little broth, a 



REMOVES OF GOOSE. 241 

small piece of butter, and two ounces of sugar ; when nearly done, the 
apples should be boiled down quickly, in order to glaze them of a 
bright light brown color : be careful that they remain whole. Pour a 
rich gravy round the goose, and send to table. 

701. WILD GOOSE, A L'ABERDEEN. 

When the goose is drawn, scald the feet and remove the rough 
cuticle that covers them ; then singe it over the flame of a charcoal-fire, 
wipe it with a clean cloth, and pick out all the stubble, and stuff the 
goose with the following preparation : — 

To one pound of chopped beef-suet, add the same quantity of bread- 
crumbs, half a pound of butter, two whole eggs, a little chopped thyme, 
sweet-basil, and marjoram, two shalots, and a handful of parsley ; season 
with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; knead the whole well together, 
and stuff the goose with it. 

Then truss the goose, and put it on the spit in the same fashion as 
directed for a haunch of venison. It will require about three hours to 
roast ; when done, dish it up with a border of glazed Portugal onions 
(No. 1164), pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29), under it, and send to 
t able. The goose should be frothed with flour and butter in the same 
manner as venison, after the crust has been removed. 

702. WILD Tjoose, l'allemande. 

Prepare the goose at first as directed in No. 698, then place it in 
a deep earthen dish, and strew upon it the following vegetables cut 
into thin slices : two carrots, two onions, one head of celery, a handful 
of parsley, four bay-leaves, thyme, marjoram, and sweet-basil in small 
quantities ; also four blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a spoonful of 
Jamaica pepper-corns, two lemons peeled and cut into slices, a pint of 
salad oil, and half a pint of French vinegar. Allow the goose to 
remain in this marinade or pickle for a couple of days, taking care to 
turn it frequently. When about to dress the goose, put it on the spit, 
cover with a stout paper well buttered, lay the whole of the vegetables. 
&c, on the breast, cover these with two sheets of buttered paper, and 
fasten them on securely with string. Put the goose thus prepared 
down to the lire to roast for about two hours, taking care to baste it 
frequently ; when done, take it from the spit, glaze and dish it up, 
garnish with a horder of quenelles of potatoes rolled in fried bread- 
crumbs, and pour under it a sauce, made as follows : — 

Grate a large stick of horseradish ; peel and slice up two lemons, 
removing the pips, and put these in a stewpan with four shalots, six 
cloves, two blades of mace, and a tea-spoonful of pepper-corns, two 
bay-leaves, a large sprig of thyme, and half a pint of French vinegar: 
set these to boil on the fire until reduced to half the quantity, then add 
a large spoonful of rich gravy, one pound of currant jelly, and the juice 
of two Seville oranges; allow the whole to boil together for five 
minutes, and then strain the sauce through a tammy with considerable 
pressure into a small stewpan, and make it hot for use. 

703. CYGNET A LA NORWICH. 

Procure a Norwich-fed cygnet (these birds are in best condition in 
September), stuff it with the following preparation : — 
15 



242 REMOVES OF DUCKS. 

Three pounds of rumpsteaks chopped 6ne, seasoned with three 
shalots, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Truss the cygnet in the 
usual manner, spit it, then envelope it with well-buttered paper, and 
encase it wiih flour-and-water-paste in a similar way to that practised 
for haunches of venison ; after which let the whole be again secured 
with stout paper well greased and fastened on with twine. About four 
hours will suffice to roast the cygnet, during which it should be fre- 
quently basted. When done, remove the coating, froth it with flour 
and butter in the usual manner, and dish it up with a rich brown gravy 
under it; and send a boatful of Port-wine sauce to be handed round 
with it. 

Note. — Cygnets may be prepared for the table, according to the 
directions for dressing wild geese. 



REMOVES OF DUCKS, 



COMPRISING 



Ducks, d la MacMoive. Braized Ducks, with stewed Peas. 

Braized Ducks, with Turnips. „ d la Provengale. 

703. DUCKS, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Truss two ducks for boiling, and put them into an oval stewpan with 
a carrot, an onion, two cloves and a garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten 
with a quart of white broth, cover with an oval piece of well-buttered 
paper, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it on the stove to boil ; 
then put some live embers on the lid, and remove the ducks to the side 
of the stove to braize gently for about an hour. When about to send 
them to table, drain them upon a napkin, remove the string, and dish 
them up with alternate groups of a copious and varied Macedoine of 
vegetables (No. 143) — such as carrots and turnips, cut in fancy shapes 
and nicely glazed, after being previously boiled in broth, asparagus 
heads, French-beans, green-peas, cauliflower, &c, as they may happen 
to be in season. Sauce the ducks with some Allemande, and serve. 

704. BRAIZED DUCKS, WITH TURNIPS. 

These should be trussed in the usual way, and placed in an oval 
stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a garnished 
faggot of parsley ; moisten with sufficient white stock to cover the ducks, 
put a buttered paper over them and set them to boil gently on a slow 
fire for about an hour. While they are being braized, cut some turnips 
into fancy shapes, such as large olives, half-moons, &c, fry them in two 
ounces of butter and a little sugar; when they are all equally browned, 
throw them into a stewpan, containing about a pint of Espagnole sauce, 
with the addition of some of the broth the ducks are braized in. Allow 
the turnips to boil very gently by the side of the fire until done ; they 
must then be drained upon a sieve, their sauce clarified, skimmed, re- 
duced to its proper consistency, and passed through a tammy into a 
small stewpan containing the turnips. Dish the ducks up, place the 
turnips neatly round, oour the sauce over them, and send to table. 



REMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 243 

705. BRAIZED DUCKS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Braize the ducks as directed in the foregoing case, and when 
done, dish them up with stewed peas round them ; sance with a brown 
sauce in which some of the broth from the ducks has been reduced. 
They may also be prepared as follows : — 

Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan on the fire : when melted, 
add two table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir this over the fire until the 
roux becomes of a fawn-color ; then add a quart of good broth or 
gravy, carefully working the whole while mixing. Stir this sauce on 
the fire, and when it boils, put the ducks trussed for boiling into it, 
and also a quart of young peas, and a faggot of parsley and green 
onions. Allow these to stew very gently by the side of the stove for 
about an hour ; when the ducks are done, take them out of the sauce, 
skim off all the grease, remove the faggot of parsley ; and if there 
is too much sauce, boil it down to its proper consistency, pour the 
peas and sauce over the ducks, previously dished up, and serve. 

706. BRAIZED DUCKS A LA PROVENCALE. 

These should be braized as in the former cases, and when dished 
up, garnished with the following preparation : 

Cut six large onions into halves, remove the ends of these, and 
slice them up. Meanwhile, heat half a pint of salad oil in a deep 
sautapan over the fire ; fry the onions in it of a light-brown color, 
carefully stirring them with the end of an iron skewer to avoid 
breaking the pieces. When the onions are done, drain them upon a 
sieve, and afterward put them into a small stewpan with the juice of 
a lemon, a little mignionette pepper and a piece of glaze about the size 
of a walnut, and set them on a slow fire to simmer gently for a 
quarter of an hour ; add some finished Espagnole sauce in sufficient 
quantity for the purpose, boil the whole together, pour it round the 
ducks and serve. 

This dish is sometimes designated d la Lyonnaise. 

In addition to the foregoing methods for serving braized ducks, they 
may also be garnished with a Jardiniere, stewed olives, a Nivernaise, 
or with sauer-kraut (No. 165) ; for preparing which, see Vegetable 
Garnishes. 

REMOVES OF PHEASANTS, 

COMPRISING 

Pheasants, d la Piriguexix. Pheasants, d la Daxtphinoi'se. 

d la Chipolata. „ with braized cabbage. 

d I'ltalienne. „ d la Flamande. 

d la Beauveaux. „ d I'Allemande. 

d la Financiire. „ d la Rigence. 

with purie of celery. „ d V 'Espagnole. 

d la Soubise. „ d I' Aspic. 

d la Danphine. „ d la Monglas. 

d la Paysanne. 

707. PHEASANTS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Follow in every respect the directions for dressing turkeys d la 
Perigueux (No. 660). 



244 REMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 

708. PHEASANTS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

These are to be trussed and nicely roasted, and when taken from 
the spit, shonld be dished up and neatly garnished with a Chipolaia 
ragout (No. 190). 

709. PHEASANTS, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Truss two pheasants as for boiling, and place them on the spit in 
the usual way, then cover the breasts with a reduced wine mirepoix, 
retaining the vegetables in it ; wrap them in two large sheets of well- 
buttered paper, securely fastened at each end with a string ; place a 
long stout-made iron skewer at the backs of the pheasants, which 
must be likewise tightly secured with string to prevent them from 
slipping round. Roast the pheasants for an hour, take them up, place 
them on their dish, garnish with a border of raviolis (No. 375), pour 
an Italian sauce (No. 12) over them, and serve. 

710. PHEASANTS, A LA BEAUVEAUX. 

The pheasants must be boned, except the legs and wings, which 
should be left entire : stuff them with a, farce made with fat livers of 
fowls or game (No. 249) : then truss them so as to give them the 
appearance of being whole ; run a strong iron skewer through them, 
fasten this upon a spit with string at each end of the skewer; cover 
the breasts with some reduced mirepoix (No. 236), and wrap them up 
in two sheets of buttered paper, which must also be securely fastened 
with string. Roast the pheasants an hour and a quarter, and when 
done, dish them up with a ragout of scollops of fat livers and truffles 
(No. 191) in a Financiere sauce, and serve. 

711. PHEASANTS, A LA*- FINANCIERE. 

Truss and roast the pheasants, and when done, dish them up with 
a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188). 

712. PHEASANTS, WITH PUREE OF CELERY. 

Truss the pheasants for boiling, braize them in some good stock, 
garnished with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a garnished 
faggot of parsley ; when done drain them upon a napkin, dish them 
up, and pour over them a white puree of celery (No. 110) ; garnish 
round with a border of potato croquettes, and serve. 

713. PHEASANTS, A LA SOUBISE. 

These should be larded through the breasts, lengthwise, with strips 
of fat bacon about four inches long and a quarter of an inch square, 
seasoned with pepper and salt and chopped parsley ; they must be 
afterward trussed for boiling, then braized as in the foregoing case ; 
when done, dish them up with a puree of onions d la Soubise 
(No. 119) poured over them, and send to table. 

714. PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPHINE. 
See Poulards a la Dauphine. (No. 684.) 

715. PHEASANTS, A LA PAYSANNE. 

Truss the pheasants as for boiling with the legs tucked inside ; 
then put them into an oval stewpan with four ounces of butter, and 



REMOVES OF PHEASANTS. 245 

a piece of glaze the size of an egg, and set them to simmer very gently 
over a slow fire. They must be frequently turned, and care should he 
taken to prevent the glaze and butter from burning. When the pheas- 
ants are done, let the butter and urease be poured off; add a glass 
of white wine and some good stock in sufficient quantity to serve for 
the gravy, the juice of half a lemon and a little pepper and salt; boil 
these together to detach the glaze from the sides of the stewpan, and 
when the pheasants are dished up, pour this gravy over them, garnish 
them round with groups of potatoes cut into the shape of large olives 
and fried in butter, and serve. 

716. PHEASANTS, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

Truss the pheasants as for boiling, braize them in a wine mirepoix 
(Xo. 236), and when done, take them up, draw the strings, and allow 
them to get partially cold ; then cover them entirely with some reduced 
Allemande sauce in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the pheas- 
ants have been braized in, (this previously to its being boiled down for 
the purpose of adding it to the sauce, must be freed of all the grease, 
vtc.) This coating of sauce should be allowed to cool, and then must 
be bread-crumbed over with grated Parmesan cheese mixed with the 
bread-crumbs in equal proportions. The pheasants must now be placed 
in a deep sauta-pau or pie-dish, previously well-buttered, and the re- 
maining half of the braize added to moisten the bottom of the pan.— 
Three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time, sprinkle the pheasants 
with a little clarified butter, and set them in the oven to be baked of 
a very light fawn color, frequently basting them with clarified butter 
while baking. When done, dish them up side by side, garnish round 
with a border of quenelles of polenta, pour a brown Italian sauce (No. 
1*2) under them, and serve. 

The quenelles of polenta above alluded to should be thus made: — 
Put into a small stewpan six ounces of butter, half a pint of water, 
a little mignionette pepper, and salt; set these on the fire to boil, and 
then mix in with them six ounces of polenta (a preparation of Indian 
corn) ; stir this again over the fire until it becomes a a smooth com- 
pact paste, and then work in with it two whole eggs and two yelks, 
and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Shape this composition 
into quenelles with two table-spoons in the usual manner, and poach 
them in hot water. 

717. PHEASANTS, WITH STEWED CABBAGES. 
These must be trussed as for boiling, and placed in a rather large 
oval stewpan with three white-heart or Savoy cabbages previously cut 
into halves, the cores taken out, and blanched or parboiled ; after- 
ward the two halves of each cabbage, previously seasoned with 
mignionette pepper, and salt, must be tied up with string ; add two 
carrots, one head of celery, two onions, each stuck with two cloves, 
one pound of streaky bacon from which all the rust has been pared off, 
and which must also be parboiled like the cabbages, one pound of 
German sausage, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten with 
good stock in sufficient quantity to cover the pheasants, cover with a 
piece of buttered paper, put the lid on the stewpan, and then set the 
whole on a moderate fire to stew very gently for about two hours. 
Just before sending to table, take out the pheasants, drain them upon 



246 



PHEASANTS. 



a napkin, remove the strings, and dish them up with an ornamental 
cr6usta.de of fried bread in the centre ; then put the bacon and German 
sausage upon a plate, and after having drained the cabbages in a 
colander, roll them in a clean napkin in the form of a rolling-pin ; cut 
this into two-inch lengths, and place them round the pheasants, trim 
the bacon, cut it into strips, and lay them on the top of the circle of 
the pieces of cabbages in alternate layers with slices of the sausage ; 
about the upper part of this dish, place well-formed groups of nicely- 
shaped glazed carrots, turnips, and onions, prepared for the purpose; 
pour an Espagnole sauce over the whole, glaze the pheasants and the 
roots, and serve. 

718. PHEASANTS, A LA FLAMANDE. 




Truss and braize the pheasants in common stock, garnished with 
carrot, onion stuck with two cloves, and a faggot of parsley ; when 
done, dish them up side by side, garnish round with alternate groups 
of carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and nicely glazed, and 
some dressed Brussels sprouts and glazed onions ; pour an Espagnole 
sauce round them, glaze the pheasants, and serve. 

719. PHEASANTS, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

See chickens d, V Allemande (No. 690.) 

720. PHEASANTS, A LA REGENCE. 

Truss the pheasants with plump breasts as for roasting, lard them 
closely, and about an hour before dinner-time, put them on the spit 
before the fire to roast for about forty minutes, taking particular care 
to baste them frequently, and glaze them well just before taking them 
off the spit. When done, dish them up, garnish round with groups of 
white cocks'-combs, button-mushrooms, small quenelles and truffles ; 



PHEASANTS. 247 

in each flank of the dish place a large decorated quenelle, and at the 
ends put a larded sweetbread ; sauce the remove neatly round with 
some Allemande sauce, so as not to touch the pheasants, glaze the 
larding, and serve. 

721. PHEASANTS, WITH RICE, A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

These must be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval 
stewpan, with carrot, celery, two onions stuck with three cloves each, 
a garnished faggot of parsley and a couple of red Spanish sausages ; 
moisten with some red wine mirepoix, cover them up, and set them to 
stew very gently for about two hours on a slow fire. 

While the pheasants are stewing, prepare some rice in the following 
manner : 

Thoroughly wash ten ounces of Carolina rice, and afterward boil it 
for three minutes in water, and drain it on a sieve until all the moisture 
is absorbed ; then put a gill of salad-oil into a large sauta-pan over a 
brisk fire, and, as soon as the oil is quite hot, throw the rice in and fry 
it until it becomes slightly browned, stirring it with a spoon the whole 
of the time it remains on the fire. Then put the rice into a stewpan, 
moisten it with a pint and a half of good consomme, season with a 
little Cayenne pepper and a pinch of saffron powder ; set it to simmer 
very gently on the fire for half an hour, and when the pheasants are 
dished up, work the rice with a teaspoonful of tomata sauce and a little 
glaze, then mould it in the shape of ordinary quenelles with a table- 
spoon, and place these closely round the pheasants after they are dished 
up ; sauce them over with Poivrade sauce in which part of their broth 
has been mixed after being first boiled down to glaze, and serve. 

722. PHEASANTS, A L'aSPIC. 

Bone the pheasants, and take care to leave the legs and wings en- 
tire ; then season the inside with pepper and salt, and fill them out 
with some forcemeat of pheasant (No. 243) previously mixed with 
some chopped parsley and mushrooms ; truss them so as to give them 
their original shape and size, cover them with thin layers of fat bacon 
and wrap them securely in napkins spread with butter, fastened at each 
end with string. When the pheasants are thus far prepared, place 
them in an oval stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with three 
cloves, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten with good white 
stock in sufficient quantity to cover them, and then set them to braize 
very gently on a slow fire for an hour and a half. When the pheasants 
are done, take them up, remove the napkins and strings, drain all the 
moisture from them upon a clean napkin, and dish them up ; pour 
under them some bright essence of game, made from the carcasses of 
the pheasants, which, previously to its being used, must be clarified and 
reduced to half-glaze. 

723. PHEASANTS, A LA MONCLAS. 

Roast two pheasants, and as soon as they come off the spit, cut the 
meat from the breasts by making an incision in the shape of a heart; 
this meat must then be cut into very small dice and mixed with two 
gravy-spoonfuls of reduced Bechamel sauce or Allemande, and two 
dozen mushrooms, a couple of black truffles and a small piece of red 



248 REMOVES OF PARTRIDGES. 

tongue should be also cut into dice and mixed with the pheasant. 
With this preparation fill up the breasts of the pheasants, smooth them 
over with the blade of a knife, and then cover them with bread-crumbs 
fried of a light-brown color ; set the pheasants in the oven or hot closet 
to keep warm, and when about to send them to table place them in 
their dish side by side, pour under them a white ragout of cock's-combs, 
mushrooms, and truffles, and serve. 

Note. — This dish is generally served when there happens to be some 
ready-dressed game left from the previous day's dinner. 



REMOTES OP PARTRIDGES, 



COMPRISING 



Partridges, d la SSville. Partridges, d la Ravigotte. 

Red-legged Partridges, d la Plessy. „ d la Soubixe. 

„ „ d la Cerito. „ d I'Ellsler. 

724. PARTRIDGES, A LA SEVILLE. 

Truss four or six partridges as for boiling, fry them of a light-brown 
color in four ounces of fresh butter, and then set them aside upon a 
plate ; cut about one pound of raw ham (that has been previously 
soaked and parboiled) into small pieces in the form of olives, and two 
dozen small pieces of the red part of a carrot cut with a round scoop, 
with the same number of small button-onions ; fry these also of a light- 
brown color, withdraw them from the" fire, and then put them with the 
partridges back into the stewpan ; add a faggot of parsley garnished 
with thyme, bay-leaf, sweet basil, and one clove of garlic ; season with 
a little salt and Cayenne pepper, moisten with two glasses of Madeira 
or Malaga, and a table-spoonful of tomatas ; then set the stewpan 
(covered with the lid containing live embers) on a slow fire, to 
simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Observe that the mois- 
tening of the partridges should be reduced to one half of its original 
quantity while braizing. When done, dish them up in a triangular 
form, skim off the grease from the carrots, &c, add a gravy-spoonful 
of finished Espagnole and the juice of half a lemon ; boil the whole 
together for two minutes, place the ham, carrots, and onions in sepa- 
rate groups round the partridges, pass the sauce through a tammy, pour 
it over the partridges, and serve. 

In the centre of the partridges place some garbangas, or yellow 
Spanish peas, prepared as follows: — 

Soak a pint of garbancas in tepid water for twelve hours; then 
drain, and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of ham, a carrot, 
an onion, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a little mignionette-pepper ; 
moisten with three pints of broth, and set them to boil gently for three 
hours. 

725. RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGES, A LA PLESSY. 

These are to be trussed as for boiling, braized in a white poi'Ic 
(No. 230), and when done to be dished up in a triangular form, ami 
garnished with neat groups of small quenelles of partridge and white 



PARTRIDGES. 



249 



button mushrooms ; pour round a Supreme sauce (No. 38), finish 
with an essence of game over the partridges, and serve. 

726. PARTRIDGES, A LA CERITO. 

Bone three red-legged partridges and fill them out with some 
quenelle force-meat made with the fillets of two partridges, and with 
which should be mixed previously to using it, two black truffles and a 
small piece of red tongue cut into small dice : when the partridges 
are filled with this preparation, truss them so as to give them their 
original shape ; scald the red legs and insert them on each side of the 
birds, at the same time pushing the ends of the skin of the leg neatly 
in with each foot. Then, wrap each bird in a separate small napkin 
spread with butter, and fasten the ends with string ; braize them for 
about an hour in some white poele (No. 230), over a slow fire, and 
take particular care that they do not boil fast. Whan done, take 
them out of the napkins, remove the strings, drain all the unneces- 
sary moisture from them, and dish them up : garnish them with a 
border of raviolis (No. 375), pour a Provengale sauce (No. 25) over 
them, and serve. 

727. PARTRIDGES, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

These should be trussed as for boiling, and mast be roasted just 
before, they are wanted ; when dished up, pour a Ravigotte or Proven- 
rale sauce under them, glaze and send to table. 

728. PARTRIDGES, A LA SOUBISE. 

Truss the partridges for boiling, braize them, and when done, dish 
them up, ponr an onion sauce a la soubise, finished with a gill of cream 
(No. 119) over them, and send to table. 

729. PARTRIDGES, A L'ELLSLER. 




Truss four red-legged partridges as for boiling, lard the breasts 
closely, braize them in wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; when done, glaze 
them nicely and dish them up iu a row ; garnish with a group of 



250 MEAT PIES. 

small truffles, cock's-combs and mushrooms at each end place a heart 
sweet-bread contise with black truffles, and on the sides a border of 
dessert-spoon quenelles, made with game force-meat, in which has been 
mixed some lobster-coral ; pour a Parisian sauce (No. 40) round the 
partridges, and serve. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing red-legged 
and common partridges, they may also be treated according to the 
various directions giveu for dressing pheasants. 



MEAT PIES FOR REMOVES, 

COMPRISING 

Chicken Pie, d In Reine. Veal and Ham Pie. 

Pigeon Pie, d V Anglaise. Mutton Pie, d V Anglaise. 

Grouse Pie, d V Eeossaise. Pie of Woodcocks or Snipes, d V Irlandaitt. 

Partridge Pie, d la Chasseur. Fieldfare, or Blackbird Pie. 

Gibblet Pie, with fine-herbs. Lark Pie, d la Melton Mowbray. 

Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. 

730. CHICKEN PIE, A LA REINE. 

Cut two chickens into small members as for fricassee ; cover the 
bottom of the pie-dish with layers of scollops of veal and ham placed 
alternately ; season with chopped mushrooms and parsley, pepper and 
salt, then add a little white sauce ; next place in the dish the pieces 
of chicken in neat order, and round these put a plover's egg in each 
cavity ; repeat the seasoning and the sauce, lay a few thin slices of 
dressed ham neatly trimmed on the fop ; cover the pie with puff-paste, 
ornament this with pieces of the same cut into the form of leaves, <fcc, 
egg the pie over with a paste-brush, and bake it for one hour and a 
half. A very good chicken pie may be made by omitting the plover's 
eggs, mushrooms, ham, and the sauce — substituting for these, the yelks 
of eggs boiled hard, chopped parsley, bacon, and a little mushroom- 
catsup, some common gravy, or even water. 

731. PIGEON PIE, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Draw, truss, and singe/six young pigeons; then, stuff them with 
the chopped livers, mixed with some parsley, a small piece of butter, 
pepper and salt. Next, cover the bottom of the dish with rather 
large scollops of beef, taken either from the fillet or rump ; season 
with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt ; over these 
place the pigeons, and between each pigeon put the yelk of an egg 
boiled hard, placing two or three in the centre also ; add some white 
or brown sauce, whichever may be at hand, in sufficient quantity to 
produce sauce enough for the dish, or if neither of these be ready, then 
substitute some gravy or common broth ; repeat the seasoning, cover 
the pie with puff-paste, bake it for an hour and a half, and send to 
table. 

732. GROUSE PIE, A L'ECOSSAISE. 

When the grouse are picked, cut off the legs and wings, and tuck 
the thighs inside ; then cut away the lower parts of the backs, which, 



REMOVES OF PIES. 251 

if permitted to remain, would, from their bitter taste, spoil the pie. 
Cover the bottom of the dish with large scollops of beef, seasoned 
with chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalots, pepper and salt : over 
these place the grouse, and between each bird put the yolk of an egg 
boiled hard ; lay some small thin slices of streaky bacon or ham upon 
the top, and then mix a pint of good gravy with two table-spoonfuls of 
" Hickson's Mogul Sauce," and the same proportion of genuine Har- 
vey sauce : pour this preparation into the pie, sprinkle some chopped 
parsley and mushrooms on the surface, cover with puff-paste, bake the 
pie for an hour and a half, and serve. 

733. PARTRIDGE PIE, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Cut the partridges into small members, in the same manner as 
directed for cutting up fowls for a fricassee, and set them apart on a 
plate. Then, cover the bottom of the pie-dish with neatly-trimmed 
scollops of veal, and thin slices of streaky bacon, first partially boiled 
to extract the salt ; cover these with six spoonfuls of the following 
preparation : — Make about half a pint of Soubise sauce (No. 119), to 
this add half that quantity of white sauce, a pottle of button-mush- 
rooms, some chopped parsley, and a littly thyme ; season with cayenne 
pepper, and salt. When the veal, &c, is covered with the foregoing, 
place the members of the partridges, in neat order, upon the whole ; 
pour the remainder of the sauce on these, and smooth over the surface 
with a knife ; place on the top some yolks of eggs boiled hard and 
cut into halves, and between each yolk put a small piece of streaky 
bacon ; cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for one hour and a half, 
and serve. 

734. GIBLET PIE, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Procure two sets of goose giblets (cleaned), scald them, afterward 
immerse them in cold water, and drain them upon a napkin. Then, 
cut the giblets into pieces about two inches long, trim them neatly 
and place them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four 
cloves, a garnished faggot of parsley, and season with pepper and a 
little salt ; moisten with a quart of good broth and a glass of Sherry 
and set them to stew gently on a slow fire. When done, remove the 
carrot, onion, and faggot of parsley ; drain the giblets into a sieve, 
skim off all the grease from the broth, and after having put it back 
into a small stewpan, thicken it with a little roux, and boil the sauce 
over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring it the whole time 
with a wooden spoon. Reduce the sauce by boiling to about a pint, 
and then remove it from the fire. Next, cover the bottom of the dish 
with scollops of fillet of beef, season with fine-herbs, consisting of 
mushrooms, parsley, a very little sweet-basil, and two shalots, adding 
cayenne pepper, and salt ; over these pour half the sauce, then fill the 
dish up with the giblets, which place in neat order ; sprinkle some 
fine-herbs upon them, and pour the remainder of the sauce over the 
whole. Cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for an hour and a 
quarter, and send to table. 

735. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PIE. 

Cut three pounds of fillet of beef or rump-steaks into large scollops, 
fry them quickly over a very brisk fire, so as to brown them before they 



252 REMOVES OF PIES. 

are half done ; then, place them on the bottom of the dish, leaving the 
centre open, in two successive layers ; fill the cente with four dozen 
oysters, previously parboiled and bearded, season with pepper and salt, 
and pour the following preparation over the whole. When the scol- 
lops of beef have been fried in a sauta or frying-pan, pour nearly all 
the grease out, and shake a table-spoonful of flour into it; stir this 
over the fire for one minute, and then add a pint of good gravy or 
broth, two tablespoonsful of mushroom-catsup, and an equal quantity 
of Harvey sauce and the liquor from the oysters ; stir the whole over the 
fire, and keep it boiling for a quarter of an hour. Half an hour after 
this sauce has been poured into the pie, cover it with puff-paste in the 
usual way, bake it for an hour aud a half, and serve. 

736. VEAL AND HAM PIE. 
Trim the veal and ham into scollops, and season with pepper and 
salt in moderation. Next chop a handful of mushrooms and some 
parsley very fine, and put them in a small stewpan with a small pat of 
butter, and one shalot also chopped fine ; fry these lightly over the 
fire, then add nearly a pint of Veloute sauce or good stock ; boil the 
whole for five minutes, and pour it into the pie ; place six yolks of eggs 
boiled hard in the cavities, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for an 
hour aud a half, and serve. 

737. MUTTON PIE, A l'ANGLAISE. 

Procure a neck of mutton, remove the scrag and the spine-bone, 
shorten the ribs to about three inches, and use these trimmings to 
make some stock or gravy for the pie. Next cut the mutton into neat 
chops, pare off the superfluous fat, soason them with pepper and salt, 
and place them in the dish in circular order, one resting upon another 
in the same way as cutlets are dished up ; fill the centre with small 
new potatoes, or old ones turned into round balls ; boil the mutton 
stock down to the quantity required to nearly fill up the dish, season 
with pepper and salt, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie an hour and 
a half, and send to table. 

738. PIE OF WOODCOCKS OR SNIPES, A L'lRLANDAISE. 

Pick the birds clean, cut off the legs and wings, singe them, and 
then cut each woodcock or snipe into halves : remove the gizzards, 
leaving the trail, and set them aside on a plate. Then, cover the 
sides and bottom of a white glazed earthen oval pan (used for pre- 
serving game) with very thin layers of fat bacon, place the woodcocks 
or snipes in the pan in close layers, each well-seasoned with ground 
black pepper and salt, and a small proportion of prepared aromatic 
spices (No. 1250). When this is done, fill up the pan with a sufficient 
quantity of clarified fresh butter to cover the birds, place some layers 
of fat bacon on the top, cover the pan hermetically with a firm flonr- 
and-water paste : bake the pie in a moderately-heated oven for about 
two hours ; when it has become cold, remove the crusts, wash the 
edges and sides of the pan, and run a little fresh clarified butter on 
the top ; when cold, ornament with a neat border of picked double 
parsley, set the pie on a folded napkin laid on its dish, and serve. 

This is perhaps the best method for making pies of woodcocks or 
snipes, as from the simplicity of the ingredients used, the birds retain 






REMOVES OF PIES. 253 

their flavor : an important consideration with amateurs of this kind of 
game. 

739. FIELDFARE OR BLACKBIRD PIE. 

These birds are only fit for table during the months of November, 
December, and January, and are in the greatest perfection during severe 
frosty weather. Procure a dozen fieldfares or blackbirds — which should 
l>e fat and fresh killed ; pick them very clean, draw and singe them : 
next cut the legs and wings off, and tuck the thigh bones inside the 
birds, and stuff them with the following preparation : 

Soak the crumb of two French-rolls in a little milk, put them in a 
stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little grated lemon-peel, a 
small shalot chopped fine, and a handful of parsley also chopped ; 
season with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of 
aromatic spices (No. 1250) ; stir this over the fire until the whole 
forms a compact paste ; then add the yolks of two eggs, and use this 
stuffing as above directed. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with 
scollops of beef previously fried brown, place the birds in close circular 
order upon these ; between each bird put a slice of streaky bacon, and 
fill up the centre with stewed mushrooms prepared as follows. Clean 
a plateful of mushrooms, cut them up and put them in a stewpan with 
a small pat of butter, half a pint of rich gravy or brown sauce, two 
table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, a little Cayenne pepper and salt ; 
stew these over a quick fire for ten minutes, and then, if gravy be used 
for the purpose instead of sauce, thicken it by mixing in a small pat 
of butter kneaded with a table-spoonful of flour. The pie must be 
afterward covered with puff-paste, baked for one hour and a half, and 
then sent to table. 

740. LARK PIE, A LA MELTON MOWBRAY. 

Pick clean four dozen Dunstable larks, singe them over the flame 
of a charcoal fire, cut off the wings and legs, and with the point of a 
small knife remove the gizzards, and then set the larks aside on a dish. 
Next cut two pounds of veal cutlets and a pound of ham into scollops ; 
fry these in a sauta-pan with a little fresh butter, a pottle of button 
mushrooms, some parsley and two shalots, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig 
of thyme chopped fine ; season with cayenne and salt, and the juice of 
a lemon. To these add half a pint of Veloute or Espagnole sauce, and 
the same quantity of rich gravy ; boil the whole together for three 
minutes, then place the veal and ham scollops one upon the other in 
the bottom of the dish; put the larks neatly and close to each other 
upon these, pour the sauce over them, and place the mushrooms in the 
centre ; cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter, 
and serve. 



254 



MEAT PUDDINGS, 

COMPRISING 

Beefsteak and Oyster Pudding. Pudding of small Birds, d la Chipolata. 

Mutton Pudding. Snipe Pudding, d la D'Oraay. 

Kidney Pudding. Sausage Pudding. 

741. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PUDDING. 

Line a two-quart pudding basiu with some beef-suet paste ; fill this 
lining with a preparation similar to that described for making beef- 
steak and oyster pie, except that the sauce must be more reduced. 
When the pudding is filled, wet the edges of the paste round the top 
of the basin with a paste-brush dipped in water, cover it with a piece 
of suet-paste rolled out to the size of the basin, fasten it down by 
bearing all round the edge with the thumb ; and then with the thumb 
and fore-finger, twist the edges of the paste over and over so as to give 
it a corded appearance. This pudding must be either steamed or 
boiled three hours ; when done, turn it out of the basin carefully, pour- 
some rich brown gravy under it, and serve. 

742. MUTTON PUDDING. 

Line a basin as in the above case, fill the lining with thick mutton 
cutlets, slightly trimmed, or, if preferred, with steaks cut from the leg ; 
season with pepper and salt, some parsley, a little thyme, and one 
small shalot chopped fine, and between each layer of meat, put some, 
slices of potatoes. Cover the pudding as in the foregoing article, 
steam or boil it for three hours, and serve some rich gravy under it 
when sent to table. 

743. KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Clt two pounds of sheep's or lamb's kidneys into scollops, put 
them into a basin with some chopped parsley, shalot, and a little 
thyme, and season with pepper and salt ; then add a large gravy- 
spoonful of good sauce, and the juice of half a lemon : mix these in- 
gredients well together. Line a basin with suet-paste, and fill the 
pudding with the foregoing preparation ; cover it in the usual way. 
steam or boil it for two hours and a half, and when sent to table, pour 
under it some rich brown gravy to which has been added a little Indian 
soy, and serve. 

744. PUDDING OF SMALL BIRDS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Most kinds of small birds may be used for this purpose, such as 
larks, sparrows, fieldfares, and wheatears, &c. 

Take two pounds of small birds which have been picked clean, 
remove the gizzards, and fry them over a brisk fire until they are 
browned ; add chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, season with a 
little grated nutmeg, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and a large gravy 
spoonful of brown sauce, also two dozen roasted chestnuts previously 
peeled, and a like number of small pieces of parboiled streaky bacon : 



SAUSAGE PUDDING. 255 

boil these ingredients for three minutes, then fill the pudding with 
them, and cover it with paste, as usual. This pudding must be 
steamed on account of its richness. When done, turn it out of the 
basin with care, in order not to break it ; pour a rich brown sauce 
under, and serve. 

This pudding may be made in a plainer manner, by omitting the 
mushrooms, lemon-juice, sauce, and chestnuts — following in all other 
respects the same process. 

745. SNIPE PUDDING, A LA D'OESAY. 

Pick eight fine fat fresh snipes, singe them over a charcoal flame, 
and divide them into halves, remove the gizzards and reserve the trail 
for further use ; season the snipes with a little Cayenne pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice, and set them aside on a dish till wauted. Then peel 
a Portugal onion, cut it into thin slices and fry these in a stewpan 
with a small piece of butter ; when they are slightly browned, throw 
in a tablespoonful of flour, and stir them together on the fire for three 
minutes ; then add a handful of chopped mushrooms and parsley, a 
small bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a small blade of mace and a clove of 
garlic; moisten with a pint of Claret; stir the whole upon the fire, and 
when these have boiled ten minutes, add the trail and a piece of good 
glaze. Set the sauce to boil for three minutes longer, and then rub it 
through a tammy into a puree upon the snipes. Next, line a pudding 
basin with suet-paste, fill it up with the foregoing preparation, and 
when covered with a piece of paste and properly fastened round the 
edges so as to prevent the escape of the volatile properties of the sauce, 
steam it in a covered stewpan for two hours and a half. When the 
pudding is done, turn it out of the basin with care, pour a rich brown 
game gravy under it, and serve. 

746. SAUSAGE PUDDING. 

Procure two pounds of Cambridge sausages, and twist each into 
three round balls ; put these into boiling water, on the stove, merely 
to parboil them for a minute or so, then throw them into cold water 
and afterward remove the skins. Line the pudding basin with suet 
paste, fill it with the sausages, and pour the following preparation 
upon them : chop one onion and three sage leaves, boil these in water 
for two minutes, drain them upon a sieve, and then fry them in small 
stewpan with a piece of butter ; as soon as they become of a light- 
brown color, add a table-spoonful of flour and a tea-spoonful of curry 
paste, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with half a pint of 
good broth ; stir the sauce upon the fire, and when it has boiled a 
quarter of an hour, rub it through a sieve or tammy, and use it as 
above directed. Cover the pudding with paste, steam or bake it for 
two hours, and when turned out of the basin, send to table with plain 
gravy under it. 



256 



REMOVES OF BAACK GAME AND GROUSE, 

COMPRISING 

Black Game, d la Montagnarde. Black Game, d la Paysanne. 

t , d Vltalihine. ., d la Norwegihxne. &C. 

„ d la Suidoise. 

747. BLACK GAME, A LA MONTAGNARDE. 

Cut off the legs and wings, tuck the thighs inside the birds, and 
split them down the back ; season well with pepper and salt, rub them 
over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and then broil them 
carefully on a gridiron, over a clear fire perfectly free from smoke : 
or place the birds in a baking-dish or sauta-pan with a piece of butter; 
set them to bake in the oven, and baste them frequently. When done, 
glaze them nicely, and dish them up with a border of potato croquettes, 
and then pour under them some Poivrade sauce (No. 29), fiuished 
with a piece of anchovy-butter and some lemon-juice. 

748. BLACK GAME, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Truss the birds as for boiling, put them into an oval stewpan with 
garnished faggot of parsley, two carrots, two heads of celery, two 
ouions, each stuck with three cloves, a blade of mace, twenty pepper- 
corns and two cloves of garlic ; moisten them with a gill of brandy 
and a large ladleful of good stock ; place a buttered paper on the 
top, put the lid on, and set them To braize on a very slow fire, with 
some live embers on the lid. If the birds are young, one hour and a 
quarter will suffice to braize them ; but if old they will require longer 
time. When the birds are done, drain, glaze, and dish them up, 
garnish with macaroni finished with the liquor from the birds, freed 
from every particle of grease, and boiled down with the macaroni ; to 
this add six ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a spoonful of tomata 
sauce (No. 22), and four ounces of fresh butter ; pour some browu 
Italian sauce (No. 12) over the birds and round their base, and 
serve. 

749. BLACK GAME, A LA STJEDOISE. 

These must be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval 
stewpan with one pound of streaky bacon, and one pound of German 
sausage, a good-sized carrot, two heads of celery, two onions stuck 
with four cloves each, a garnished faggot of parsley, and a tea-spoon- 
ful of black peppercorns ; moisten with three pints of fermented juice 
of beetroot (No. 380) and two glasses of brandy, cover with buttered 
paper and the lid containing live embers, and set them to braize slowly 
on a stove-fire partially smothered with ashes. When the birds are 
done, take them up on a dish and keep them covered up in the hot 
closet until they are dished up. Next, strain the liquor through a 
napkin, skim off all the grease, boil it down nearly to half-glaze, then 
add to it a small ladleful of finished Eapagnole sauce (No. 3), together 
with a glass of red wine ; allow this sauce to boil by the side of the 



BLACK GAME. 257 

stove-fire for five minutes ; skim it and pass it through a tammy into a 
small stewpan, and keep it hot. Then place the black game on their 
dish side by side, garnish them round with carrots prepared in the 
Swedish fashion, and round this place another border composed of 
neatly-cut scollops of the streaky bacon and German sausage ; pour 
the sauce over the remove, and serve. 

The carrots above alluded to should be thus prepared : slit the out- 
side or red part of a dozen large carrots into thin stripes, cut these 
again into thin shreds of about two inches long. Next, place them iu 
a stewpan with four ounces of butter and half a pint of vinegar ; season 
with four ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg and a little salt; set 
them to stew very gently upon a partially-smothered charcoal fire, 
taking care to turn them over now and then with a spoon : about an 
hour will suffice to do them : when, if any moisture remains, it must be 
boiled down, and they will be ready for use. 

750. BLACK GAME, A LA PAYSANNE. 
See pheasants d la Paysanne. (No. 715.) 

751. BLACK GAME, A LA NORWEGIENNE. 

Truss these as for roasting, lard the breasts closely with well fur- 
nished rows of larding ; set them to braize in an oval stewpan, moistened 
with a mirepoix (No. 236) made with two parts of good stock and 
one third of French vinegar; baste the birds frequently while they are 
being braized, when done, set them upon a baking-sheet in the oven 
for two minutes to dry the larding, then glaze and dish them up ; 
garnish with a border of stewed red cabbage dressed in the same way 
as French sauer-kraut (No. 165), and round this place a border of 
small sausages prepared as follows : 

Chop one pound of calf's liver with ten ounces of fat bacon and six 
ounces of brown bread-crumbs, season with black pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel, some parsley, thyme, one bay-leaf, and some 
sweet-basil, all chopped fine ; add the yolks of three eggs, mix the 
whole thoroughly, aud then form this preparation into small flat, round, 
or oval sausages, which must be wrapped up in pig's caul ; fry these 
of a brown color, and use them as directed above. 

Sauce the remove with a Poivrade (No. 29), mixed with half the 
liquor in which the birds have been braized, previously cleared of all 
grease and boiled down to half-glaze ; glaze the larding, and serve. 

In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing black game, they 
may also be served d la Soubise, & la Perigueux, a la Financiere, 
with a puree of celery, Richelieu sauce, braized cabbages, and a la 
Dauphinoise ; for the preparation of which, see those articles. 

Note. — Grouse should be dressed in the same way as black game. 
16 



258 



PATE-CHATJDS, OR RAISED PIES FOR ENTREES, 



COMPRISING 



Pdte-Chaud of Young Rabbits with fine- 
herb?. 

„ d la Sauce Poivrade. 

„ of Leverets with Truffles, d 

la PSrigueux. 

„ of ditto d la Financi&re. 

„ of Godiveau d la Ciboulette. 



Pdti-Chaud of Young Partridges, d la 
Chasseur. 
„ of Ox Palates, d FTtalibine. 

„ of Quails, d la Financiire. 

„ of Larks boned, d I' Essence. 

„ of Snipes, d la Bordelaise. 





Pdte-Chaud Cases. 
752. PATE-CHAUD* OF YOUNG RABBITS, WITH FINE-HERBS. 




Cut up two young rabbits into small members, place these in a deep 
sautapan with two ounces of butter, a handful of chopped mushrooms, 
some parsley and two shalots chopped also ; season with pepper and 
salt, a little grated nutmeg and a garnished faggot. Then set the rabbits 
on a brisk fire, and fry them of a light-brown color ; add a glass of 
French white wine, cover the sautapan with its lid containing some 
live embers of charcoal, and again set them on the fire to stew very 
gently for twenty minutes, when they will be done. Next, add a graw- 
spoonful of brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a 
lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire, and allow it to boil 
sharply for two minutes ; then dish up the pieces of rabbit neatly in 
the pie, pour the sauce over them, and serve. 

753. PATE-CHAUD OF YOUNG RABBITS, A LA SAUCE POIVRADE. 

Cut the rabbits into small members, and place them in a sautapan 
with about two ounces of clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, 



* General directions for making a Pdtf-Chaud, or raised pie, will be found iu that 
part of the work which' treats of Entries of Pasty. 



PATE-CHAUDS. 259 

and then set them over a brisk fire to be fried brown ; next, add a 
glass of Madeira, and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut ; cover the 
sautapan with its lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and 
again place it upon a moderate fire, that the rabbits may stew very 
gently for twenty minutes longer ; then add some Poivrade sauce 
(No. 29) in sufficient quantity for the entree, allow the whole to boil 
together for three minutes, garnish the pdte-chaud as in the former 
case, and send to table. 

754. PATE-CHAUD OF LEVERETS, WITH TRUFFLES, A LA 
PERIGUEUX. 

The leverets must be cut into small members or joints as follows : — 
First, take off the hind legs and make two pieces of these ; detach 
the shoulders, and cut the loins transversely into pieces about two 
inches long ; split the head into halves, trim the whole neatly without 
waste, and place these members in a sautapan with three ounces of 
clarified butter : season with pepper and salt, and set them on a brisk 
fire to be fried brown. Next, add four ounces of truffles cut into 
thick scollops, and a small piece of glaze, cover with the lid containing 
live embers of charcoal, and replace the sautapan on a slow fire, to 
simmer for twenty minutes longer. Then add the Perigueux sauce 
(No. 23), allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, garnish 
the pdU'-chaud, and serve. 

755. PATE-CHAUD OF LEVERETS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Prepare these in the manner directed in the foregoing article, and 
when the members of the leverets are ready to receive the sauce, add a 
rich Financiere ragout (No. 188); after the whole has boiled together 
for three minutes, garnish the pie, and serve. 

A border of large white cocks'-combs may be placed round the edge 
of the pie, and a larded sweetbread or a large truffle in the centre. 

756. PATE-CHAUD OF GODIVEAU, A LA CIBOULETTE. 

To one pound and a half of sifted flour, add three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
about a gill and a half of cold water, then knead the whole into a fine 
smooth paste. Take rather more than two-thirds of this, mould it 
into a round ball with the palm of the hand, and afterward roll it 
out to the size of a common dinner-plate ; then with the fingers of 
both hands, take up the edges of the paste to the depth of two inches, 
and gather it into the shape of a round or oval purse (according to 
the shape of the dish) : and having previously buttered a raised pie- 
mould for the purpose, line it. with the paste, by first rolling it out 
and then pushing the paste into the mouMings of the case with 
another piece of paste, used as a cushion for the purpose. When the 
mould is thus lined, fill it with some godiveau (No. 251), previously 
mixed with some chopped chives or green onions, parsley, and mush- 
rooms ; smooth the top over with a blade of a knife dipped in water, 
cover the pie with the remainder of the paste, and after it has been 
neatly fastened and trimmed round the edge, nip it round with the 
pastry-pincers ; place upon the top a circular piece of puff-paste, egg 
this over with the paste-brush, and score it with the point of a small 
knife, forming some device or ornament. Make a small hole in the 



260 RAISED PIES FOR ENTREES. 

centre for the steam to escape, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter, 
and when it is done, remove the top carefully with a knife ; score the 
c/odiveau to the bottom, in the shape of squares or diamonds; pour 
some Poivrade, Italian, or Espagnole sauce over it, and after replacing 
the cover, send to table. 

757. PATE-CHAUD OF YOUNG PARTRIDGES, A LA CHASSEUR. 

When the partridges have been drawn and singed, cut them into 
small joints as follows : — First, remove the legs and wings ; then cut 
the fillets with the pinion-bone adhering to them, leaving the breast- 
piece entire, as also the back, after having detached the thighs. Let 
all these be neatly trimmed without waste, and observe that the skin 
of the thighs must be rolled under to give them an appearance of 
plumpness. Next, place them in neat order in a deep sautapan with 
three ounces of clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, and 
a little grated nutmeg; fry them brown over a brisk fire, after which 
add a glass of Madeira or Sherry, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, 
four ounces of truffles cut into thick scollops, and two dozen button- 
mushrooms. Cover this with the lid containing some live embers of 
charcoal, and set the sautapan again on a moderate fire to simmer 
gently for a quarter of an hour : then remove the lid, add some brown 
Italian sauce in sufficient quantity for the entree, allow the whole to 
boil together for three minutes longer, add the juice of half a lemou, 
and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley ; toss these in 
with the partridges, &c, garnish the pie, keeping back the truffles 
and mushrooms to place on the top, lastly pour the sauce, and serve. 

758. PATE-CHAUD OF OX-PALATES, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Procure six fresh ox-palates, steep them in tepid water for six 
hours, then throw them into a large stewpan of boiling water and 
scald them for about five minutes ; after which immerse the palates in 
cold water, and scrape off all the white cuticle from the surface ; next, 
wash them in plenty of cold water, and drain them on a napkin. 
Then place them in an oval stewpan, moisten with some blonc (No. 
235), covered with buttered paper, and put on the lid, and set them 
to braize very gently over a slow fire for about four hours. As soon 
as the palates are done, put them in press between two baking-sheets 
or earthen dishes, and when they are cold, take a circular tin-cutter 
an inch in diameter, and cut them into scollops without wasting any 
part. Put these into a stewpan with about two dozen large button- 
mushrooms cut into scollops, also two dozen raviolis (No. 375), and 
enough brown Italian sauce for the entree ; boil the whole together 
for two minutes, garnish the pie, and serve. 

759. PATE-CHAUD OF QUAILS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

For a small entree, eight fine fat quails will suffice ; bone these by 
making an incision in that part of the back nearest the crop, through 
which all the bones, &c, must be drawn out, so as to give them as 
much as possible the appearance of being whole. Next, fill each 
quail with some farce of fat livers (No. 249), and truss them with 
their legs turned back : be careful that the crop is securely fastened 
in order to prevent the stuffing from escaping — a large worsted needle 
aud very fine twine must be used for the purpose. Then, place the 



yol'au'yents. 261 

quails in a small frican deau pan which has been previously lined with 
thin layers of fat bacon ; in the centre place a garnished faggot of 
parsley ; cover the whole with more layers of fat bacon, moisten with a 
wine mirepoix (No. 236), and having put a buttered paper over all, 
set the lid on the pan and place it on a stove-fire, or in the oven, to 
braize very gently for about three quarters of an hour. As soon as the 
quails are done, drain them on a dish, set tbem to cool,, and trim them 
neatly. Next line the inside of the pie with some of the remainder 
of the farce of fat livers, to within an inch of the top, place the quails 
in it in circular order, with the breasts uppermost, and a thin layer 
of the force-meat between each ; cover the whole with thin layers of 
fat bacon, place a double round of paper well-buttered on the top, and 
then set the pie in the oven to bake : this will take about an hour. 
When done, remove the bacon, drain off all the grease carefully, place 
a decorated small fillet of fowl in between each quail, and on the breast 
of each, a large white button -mushroom, round the edge a border of 
large white cocks'-combs, and in the centre a larded heart sweetbread ; 
sauce sparingly with a bright Financiere (No. 8) mixed with some 
reduced extract of quails made from the bones. 

Note. — Observe, that the raised pie for this purpose must be only 
half baked previously to filling it with the quails ; as it has to undergo 
another baking. This remark refers also to the two succeeding cases. 

760. PATE-CHAUD OF LAKES BONED, A L'ESSENCE. 
Follow the preceding directions, but substituting larks for quails. 

761. PATE-CHAUD OF SNIPES, A LA BOE.DELAISE. 

Bone eight snipes, and with the trail and one pound of fat livers, 
make some force-meat for gratin (No. 249), and with part of this fill 
the snipes ; truss them in the same way as directed for the quails, 
and braize them accordingly, after which follow in all respects the 
second part of the directions. When the pie is baked, drain off care- 
fully all the grease ; between each snipe place a large white cock's- 
comb, on the breast of each put a small fillet of fowl, decorated with 
red tongue, and afterward turned round in a circle, with a round 
ball of black truffle in the centre : these fillets must be placed in a 
small sauta-pan between thin layers of fat bacon, and set in the oven 
for about three minutes ; garnish the edge of the pie with a close border 
of scollops of red tongue cut in the form of large cocks'-combs, in the 
centre put a large truffle, bearing a double comb, and a border of these 
round its base ; sauce the pie carefully with a rich Bordelaise (No. 
57), mixed with some reduced extract of snipes, made from the bones, 
and serve. 



262 



YOL'AU'VEXTS AND TOURTES, 



COMPRISING 



Yol'au'vent, d la Nesle. Yol'au'vent of Salt Fish, d 1'Anglaise. 

„ d la Financiere. Tourte of Whitings, d la Danphine. 

„ of Turbot, d la Bechamel. „ of Godiveau au Madere. 

„ of Salmon, d la Rauiyotte. „ of Ox Palates, d la Francaise. 

„ of Cod, d la Crime. „ of Lobsters, d la Cardinal. 

762. vol'au'vents, a la nesle * 

Cleanse one set of calf s-brains, and boil them in a stewpan with 
water, a small carrot and an onion both sliced very thin, two cloves, a 
little mace, twelve peppercorns, and a little salt, for a quarter of an 
hour ; when done, remove them from the fire to get cold. Prepare 
also a throat sweetbread, which must be steeped in tepid water for 
two hours or more, then scalded, cooled in water, and gently simmered 
on the stove in some toppings of white consomme for a quarter of an 
hour ; when done, put the sweetbread on a plate to get cold. Prepare 
also twelve quenelles of fowl, moulded in dessert-spoons, and poached, 
a like quantity of large button-mushrooms, and the same proportion 
of double cocks'-combs, and round balls of black truffles. Put these 
into a middle-sized stewpan, add to them the calf's-brains and sweet- 
bread, previously cut into neat scollops, and just before dinner-time, 
pour over the whole sufficient Allemande sauce (Xo. 7) for the entree 
(previously mixed with a small piece"of good glaze, and two tea-spoon- 
fuls of Chili vinegar.) Toss the whole lightly together over the fire, 
and with this ragout garnish a handsome vol' 'au'vent, cut either square, 
oval, or round, so as to suit the shape of the dish. 

The top of this entree may be ornamented with very small fillets of 
fowls, decorated with red tongue or black truffle : or a border of small 
quenelles, decorated similarly, may also be placed rouud the edge of 
the voVau'vent, and a small larded sweetbread in the centre of these. 

763. vol'au'vent, a la financieee. 

See the directions for a pdle-chaud, a la Financiere (Xo. 759) ; 
substituting a voVau'vent for the shell or crust. 

764. vol'au'vent of tuebot, a la bechamel. 

This entree, is generally served when there happens to be any turbot 
Teserved from a previous day's dinner; in which case, the fish must be 
pulled, or cut into scollops, warmed in a rich Bechamel sauce (Xo. 5), 
made with a full proportion of cream ; let the voVau'vent be filled with 
this, and sent to table. 

765. vol'au'vent of salmon a la eavigotte. 

Procure 2 lbs. of fresh salmon, cut it into rather thick round scol- 
lops about two inches in diameter ; place these in a sauta-pan, with 

* Instructions for making a vol'au'vent case will be found in that part of the work 
treating of Puff-paste. 



TOURTES. 263 

3 oz. of clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over them. When about to send to table, set the 
sauta-pan containing' the scollops in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for 
about five minutes, then turn them over in the pan with a fork, taking 
care not to break them ; allow them to remain on the fire five minutes 
longer, and drain them upon a clean napkin. Next, put the scollops 
into a stewpan, with sufficient Allemande sauce (No. 7) for the enlrie, 
a Id two tea-spoonsful of tarragon-vinegar, the like quantity of Harvey 
sauce, a tea-spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little 
cayenne ; toss the whole together lightly over the fire, and with this 
garnish a handsome voVau'vent, and serve. 

766. vol'au'vent of cod, a la creme. 

Crimped cod is best for this purpose, although plain cod may be 
used, but, in either case, the fish must be dressed in boUing water, with 
plenty of salt thrown in at the same time. A few minutes, in most 
instances, will suffice to boil this kind of fish, especially if it be 
crimped. If allowed to remain in the water after it is done, it be- 
comes soft and tasteless. When the cod is boiled, drain it upon a nap- 
kin, and as soon as all the water has been absorbed, put the flakes and 
the sounds carefully, without breaking tliem up, into a stewpan, con- 
taining enough rich cream Bechamel (No. 6) for the entree, to this 
add 2 oz. of grated fresh Parmesan cheese and the juice of a lemon ; 
toss the whole together over the fire with care, so as to avoid breaking 
the pieces; when it is quite hot, garnish the voPau'vent, and serve. 

767. vol'au'vent of salt fish, a l'anglaise. 

The whitest and thickest fish are the best for this purpose. About 2 
lbs. will suffice; cut from the middle of the fish, and soak it in cold 
water for forty-eight hours previously to its being dressed, the water 
being changed every six hours. Set the fish on in cold water, and 
when it boils remove the scum, and set it by the side of the stove to 
finish boiling. As soon as it is done, drain it on a sieve or a napkin, 
and when all the water is absorbed from it, remove it in large flakes 
into a stewpan containing some scollops of dressed parsnips, in the 
proportion of one-third to the quantity of fish, and a like quantity of 
slices of eggs, boiled hard ; to these add enough cream Bechamel 
sauce (No. 6) for the entree ; toss the whole gently over a stove-fire 
until quite hot, then garnish a large voVau'vent with this ragout, and 
serve. 

768. TOURTE* OF WHITINGS, A LA DAUPHIXE. 

Procure four large fresh whitings, fillet them, and set one-half aside 
on a plate in a cool place ; with the remainder prepare some quenelle 
force-meat (No. 245), which, when finished, gather up in a basin, and 
mould with dessert-spoons into quenelles. Trim the four remaining 
fillets, cut each in two transversely, and after paring off the angles, 
decorate or contises them in manner following : Place the fillet length- 
wise upon the edge of the kitchen table, then make incisions across 
with a knife, cutting down in a slanting direction, and in these open- 

* Directions for making this kind of Tourte will be found in that part of the work 
which treats of Puff-pastry. 



264 TOURTES. 

bigs insert small, round, thin scollops of red tongue, black truffle or 
green gherkins. Next, place these in a sauta-pan with 4 oz. of clari- 
fied butter, season with a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon 
over them ; cover with thin layers of fat bacon, or a round of paper 
buttered, and set them aside in the larder till wanted. While this is 
going on, make an extract or essence with the bones and trimmings of 
the whitings, as follows : — Put the bones, &c, into a stewpan, with 
two shalots, one bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, eight pepper-corns, a 
blade of mace, and a handful of parsley ; moisten with two glasses of 
white wine (French is preferable), and a pint of white broth. Set 
this to boil gently on the stove-fire for half an hour, then strain it 
through a sieve ; boil it down nearly to a glaze, and mix it with 
enough Allemande sauce, or Bechamel, for the entree, and pass it 
through a tammy into a stewpan containing the quenelles of whiting 
before alluded, to, with the addition of a dozen button-mushrooms, 
double that quantity of crayfish-tails and claws, trimmed, and 3 oz. 
of truffles, cut into thick slices ; toss the whole together gently over 
the fire until quite hot, then garnish the tourte with this ragout, and 
with the fillets before mentioned (previously set in the oven for ten 
minutes to simmer, and afterward drained on a napkin) make a border 
round the inner edge of the VoPau'vent, or tourte ; place a group of 
crayfish-tails, previously warmed in a small stewpan with a bit of glaze, 
and a morsel of lobster-coral butter (to color them), and crown the 
whole with a large crayfish, trimmed, having one prong of each claw 
stuck into its tail ; sauce neatly with the remainder of the sauce, and 
serve quickly. 

769. TOURTE OF GODIVEAU, AU MADERE. 

Prepare about 1 lb. of godiveau (No. 250), and make it into small 
quenelles in the following manner : — Shake a handful of flour over a 
pastry-slab or kitchen-table ; drop the godiveau thereon with a tea- 
spoon in small quantities ; then roll each of these with the fingers dip- 
ped in flour to the size and form of a common cork ; set them in regu- 
lar order upon a baking-sheet, and put them to bake in the oven for 
about ten minutes; when done, remove them into a stewpan containing 
some Madeira sauce (No. 8) in sufficient quantity for the entree, and 
also two artichoke-bottoms, cut into angular pieces, a few scollops of 
sweetbreads, some ox-piths cut into inch-lengths, and a few large but- 
ton-mushrooms — set the whole to boil on the stove-fire for three 
minutes : garnish the tourte, and on the top of the ragout place eisjht 
trimmed crayfish, in the centre of which put a large truffle, or small 
sweetbread, larded and glazed ; pour in the remainder of the sauce, 
and serve. 

770. TOURTE OF OX-PALATES, A LA FRANCAISE 

Prepare the ox-palates as directed in the first part of the article 
treating of the Pate chaud of ox-palates. Put the scollops into a stew- 
pan containing one-fourth part of their quantity of red tongue cut into 
round scollops, and a like proportion of button-mushrooms and scollops 
of truffles ; to which add enough Poivrade sauce (No. 29) for the 
entree ; boil the whole together, and garnish the tourte with this 
ragout, put the cover on, and serve. 



TIMBALES OF MACARONI. 



265 



771. TOURTE OF SCOLLOPS OF LOBSTER. A LA CARDINAL. 

Pick the lobster out of the shell, and cut it into neat scollops ; put 
these into a stewpan containing enough good Bechamel sauce (No. 6) 
for the entree, mixed with about two ounces of lobster coral butter 
(No. 182), a little cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the 
whole together over the fire until sufficiently hot, and with it garnish 
the tourte: put the cover on, and serve. 



TIMBALES OF MACARONI, 



COMPRISING 

Timbale of Macaroni, d la Milanaise. Timbale of Soft Roes of Mackerel, d I'Alle- 

„ d la Mazarin. mande. 

„ of Nnuilles, d la Ohas- „ of Raviolis, d la Romaine. 

seur. 




Timbale Cases. 



772. TIMBALE* OF MACARONI, A LA MILANAISE. 

The timbale case should be left in the mould to be made hot in the 
oven, and when just on the point of sending it to table, garnish it with 
macaroni dressed with cheese, some Bechamel sauce, scollops of fowl, 
truffles, tongues, and mushrooms; turn the timbale out on its dish, 
glaze it, pour some Bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. 

773. TIMBALE OF MACARONI, A LA MAZARIN. 

Boil oue pound of macaroni in two quarts of water, with a pat of 
butter, eight pepper-corns, and a little salt ; when done, and cold, put 

• The mode of preparing the timbale case will be found described under the head of 
Pastry for Entrees. 



3COO Qooo? ? aoo ~ °~° J 

"°o ° o 0°O O^GOOCOOCCpC 
OOobooOOO^ OOO OOOOOO 

3 6 oc O O O OO O O OOO OOOCO 

,000'o'o.b •q.?C(.<»?, . 0' <) °%%%, 

o>o;oo<Sodci"o 000 ' 00 ffoo >- 



266 TIMBALES OF MACARONI. 

about half of it to drain upon a 
napkin. Butter the inside of a 
plain round oval or square monld, 
according to the shape of the dish ; 
cut the macaroni into half-inch 
lengths, and cover the bottom of 
the mould with these, placing them 
on end ; cover this with a thick 
layer of chicken quenelle force-meat ; 
then line the sides of the mould in 
the same way, and as soon as this is completed, smooth the inside 
with the back of a spoon dipped in hot water; fill this cavity with a 
blanquette of fowl (No. 204), the sauce of which must be thick, and 
cover the whole with a layer of force-meat, to be applied as follows : — 
Spread some force-meat upon a round of buttered paper to fit the 
mould ; smooth the surface with a knife dipped in hot water, then 
take hold of the paper with both hands, and turn it upside down upon 
the timbale ; the paper is to be left on, as that can be easily removed 
when the force-meat has become set by steaming. About an hour and 
a half before dinner-time, place the timbale in a stewpan twice its size 
upon a trivet or ring to prevent it from touching the bottom, so that 
the water contained in the stewpan, which must only reach half-way up 
the mould, may circulate freely under it. The stewpan must be cov- 
ered with its lid, containing some live embers of charcoal, and placed 
after it has boiled, upon a slow fire to simmer gently but continually, 
in order to keep up the steam during the whole of the time. Just 
before sending to table, remove the piece of paper from the timbale, 
and take a firm hold of the bottom of. the mould with the left hand ; 
place the dish upside down upon the mould with the right hand; then, 
with the left hand uppermost, place the dish on the table, and care- 
fully lift the mould off the timbale. Pour some Supreme sauce (No. 
38) over the entree, garnish the base with white cock's-combs, truffles, 
aud mushrooms, and serve. 

774. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES, A LA CHASSEUR. 
Prepare about one pound of nouilles (No. 6? 9), parboil these in 
water for ten minutes ; drain, aud put them, into a stewpan with a 
quart of good consomme, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a 
pinch of mignionette pepper; cover the whole with a round piece of 
buttered paper, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on the stove-fire to 
boil very gently until the consommi is reduced ; add a gravy-spoonful 
of Allemande sauce, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and two 
dozen very small quenelle^ of game, previously poached ; toss the 
whole together lightly over the fire until the cheese is well mixed with 
the other ingredients ; garnish the timbale case, previously prepared for 
this purpose, turn it out of the mould into its dish, glaze it over, pour 
a little half glaze round the bast, aud serve. 

775. TIMBALE GARNISHED WITH SOFT ROES OF MACKEREL. 

Five minutes before sending to table, garnish the timbale case, 
which must be quite, hot, with a ragout of soft roes of mackerel (No. 
199) ; then turn the timbale out of the mould into the dish, glaze it 
nicely, pour a little Supreme or Bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. 



CASSEROLES, OK BORDERS OF RICE. 



267 



776. TIMBALE OF RAVIOLIS, A LA ROMALXE. 

Prepare four dozen ravioli* (No. 37;")), and after they have been 
boiled in consomme, drain them upon a sieve and put them into a stew- 
pan containing four ounces of truffles cut into scollops, the like quan- 
tity of scollops of red tongue, and about twenty mushrooms ; to these 
add two glasses of Madeira, and one ounce of game glaze, and set the 
whole to boil down quickly over a brisk lire ; when the wine is ab- 
sorbed, add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a large gravy- 
spoonful of reduced EsjM'/nole sauce ; toss these together over the 
stove-lire until quite hot, then garnish the timbale case, turn it out into 
its dish, glaze it, pour a little brown sauce or half glaze round the base, 
and serve. 



CASSEKOLES, OH BOPxDEHS OF RICE. 



COMPRISING 



ih of Rice. 

u hi Polonaise, 
a la Heine. 



Casserole of Rice, garnished with a Puree of 
Game, <? la Belle-vue. 
" garnished with wings of Fowl, <i 
I'Allemande. 



777. CASSEROLES, OR BORDERS OF RICE. 





„55Si^ i2ni2jr2>r K^l 




A casserole of rice is justly considered one of the most elegant en- 
trees : it requires great care throughout its preparation, especially in 
the treatment of the rice, that being its basis, and upon the success of 
this much of the beauty of the casserole depends. If the rice be not 
sufficiently boiled, and effectually worked into a smooth paste, it becomes 
a difficult matter to mould it : and any apparent roughness would spoil 
the look of the casserole. 



t 



268 CASSEROLES OF RICE. 

For a casserole of ordinary size, wash about a pound and a half of 
Carolina rice in three waters, drain it on a sieve, and put it into a stew- 
pan with nearly twice its quantity of water, six ounces of butter, a 
small ladleful of stock-pot toppings and a piece of raw ham ; cover 
with a circular piece of buttered paper and the lid, and set the rice to 
boil on the stove, after which it must be put in the oven, or on a smoth- 
ered stove-fire, to simmer very gently. During the time that the rice 
remains on the fire, it should be carefully turned over with a spoon twice 
or thrice. When all the grains become perfectly soft, the rice must be 
worked into a firm, compact paste, with the bowl of a large woodeu 
spoon ; it should next be rolled into the form of a ball, and placed on 
a baking-sheet, previously covered with a circular piece of buttered 
paper, and shaped to the height and circumference desired. Next, for 
the purpose of imprinting upon the casserole the ornamental mouldings 
represented in the annexed illustrations, it will be necessary to cut a 
piece of turnip, carrot, or raw potato, in the form of a chisel, to be 
used for indenting or moulding the design. 

When the casserole is moulded, it must be sprinkled over with a 
paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and afterward baked of a fine 
yellow color ; the interior must then be removed with a spoon, leaving 
the walls of the crust about half-an-inch thick ; smooth the inside of 
the rice with the back of a table-spoon dipped in water, and keep the 
casserole in a dry place till it is wanted for use. 

778. CASSEROLE OF RICE, A LA POLONAISE. 

Prepare a puree of fowls (No. 1009), and when on the point of 
sending to table, stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently hot, care 
being taken to prevent its becoming rough ; then fill the casserole with 
the puree, place eight eggs (previously boiled four minutes, and the 
shells removed), round the top of the puree ; between each egg, put a 
small fillet of fowl, decorated with tongue or truffle, sauce the surface 
of the puree with some Supreme (No. 38), and serve. 

779. CASSEROLE OF RICE, A LA REINE. 

This must be garnished with a, puree of fowls in a similar manner to 
the foregoing, and a border of quenelles of fowl placed round the inner 
edge of the surface ; sauce with Supreme, glaze the casserole with 
light-colored glaze, and serve. 

780. CASSEROLE OF RICE, GARNISHED WITH A PUREE OF 
GAME, A LA BELLE-VUE. 

Just before dinner-time, warm the puree of game (No. 1090) pre- 
pared for the purpose, garnish the casserole of rice with it, place round 
the inner edge of the surface a border of very small fillets (decorated 
contises with truffles or tongues), of the kind of game the puree is 
made from, pour a little Allemande sauce over the centre of the puree, 
glaze the casserole lightly, and serve. 

781. CASSEROLE OF RICE, GARNISHED WITH WINGS OF 

FOWL, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

The casserole of rice must be garnished with a ragout of wings of 

fowls (No. 208), to which may be added some small truffles and 

mushrooms ; ornament it with a border of large cocks'-combs, and 



BORDERS OF POTATO-PASTE. 269 

scollops of red tongue cut in the form of cocks'-corabs, placed 
alternately round the inner edge of the casserole, glaze it lightly, and 
serve. 

Note. — Casseroles, or Borders of rice may also be garnished with 
fricassee of chickens, lamb's-feet, blanquettes of sweetbreads or fowls, 
and with all kinds of scollops whether of poultry, game or fish. 



ORNAMENTAL BORDERS OF POTATO PASTE, 

COMPRISING 

Border of Potato-paste, garnished with Border of Potato-paste, garnished with Scol- 

Scollops of Larks and lops of Sheep's tongues, 

Truffles. with fine-herbs. 

" garnished with Lamb's- " garnished with Calf's Brains, 

Feet, d la Pascatine, d la Raviyottc. 

" garnished with Ox Pal- 

ates, d I'IndiSnne. 

782. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS 

OF LARKS AND TRUFFLES. 

A border of potato-paste resembles in a great measure a casserole 
of rice, and is prepared as follows : — 

For an ordinary size entree, fifteen large potatoes should be baked, 
and their pulp afterward rubbed through a fine wire-sieve upon a 
dish ; this must be put into a middle-sized stewpan with four ounces 
of butter, the yolks of six eggs, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. 
Stir the whole with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture 
becomes a smooth compact paste ; it should then be rolled into a ball, 
placed on a baking-sheet, and shaped to the height and circumference 
designed. The border should now be moulded in the same way as a 
casserole of rice, for which purpose consult the mouldings represented 
in the designs of casseroles of rice (No. 777), and are to be executed 
with a piece of raw carrot or turnip, cut in the form of a chisel. 
When the border is moulded, it should be egged over with a soft 
paste-brash, and baked in an oven, of a light yellow color; when 
done, part of the inside must be removed, and the cavity smoothed 
over with the back of the bowl of a spoon. The border ought to be 
kept in a dry place till wanted for use. Put the border in the screen 
or hot closet to get warm, five minutes before sending to table ; garnish 
it with a ragout of scollops of larks and truffles (No. 205), place a 
border of small quenelles of fowl round the edge, lightly glaze the 
border, pour a little of the sauce round the base and serve. 

783. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH LAMBS' 

FEET, A LA PASCALINE. 

Procure a dozen lamb's-feet ready scalded, remove the shin-bone, 
parboil them for five minutes, immerse them in cold water, drain them 
on a napkin to absorb the water, then stick them one at a time upon 
the point of an iron skewer, and singe off the hair (if not already re- 
moved by scalding), over the flame of a charcoal fire. Next, braize 



i 



270 BORDERS OF POTATO-PASTE. 

them gently in some blanc (No. 236), for about three-quarters of an 
hour. When the feet are done, drain them on a napkin, cut out the 
black substance to be found between the cushions of the hoof, trim 
them neatly without waste, and put them into a stew-pan with a little 
of their own liquor. Five minutes before sending to table, pour off 
the liquor from the feet, previously warmed, then add half a pottle of 
prepared button-mushrooms, and enough Pascaline sauce (No. 15) for 
the entree; toss the whole together over the stove-fire for two minutes, 
and garnish the border of potato-paste with this ragout; glaze the 
border lightly, and serve. 

784. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS 

OF OX-PALATES, A L'lNDIENNE. 

Prepare the ox-palates according to the directions contained in 
(No. 209), add enough well-reduced Indian curry sauce (No. 47) for 
the entree, warm the ragout and garnish the border of potato with, it, 
just before sending to table. 

Some plain boiled patna must be served in a plate. 

785. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS 

OF SHEEP'S-TONGUES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Scald eight sheep's tongues effectually, so as to be able to remove 
the outer skin easily ; then trim them, and afterward put them into 
a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a garnished 
faggot of parsley, and a dozen pepper-corns ; moisten with a quart of 
broth, and set them to braize gently for about an hour. When done, 
drain them on a dish, and set them in the larder to get cold, afterward 
to be cut into neat circular scollops f put these iuto a stewpan with 
half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms, and enough well-reduced 
fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), for the entree ; toss these together over the 
stove-fire to warm them thoroughly, then garnish the border of potato- 
paste with this ragout, glaze it round, and serve. 

786. BORDER OF POTATO-PASTE, GARNISHED WITH CALF'S 
BRAINS, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Steep two sets of calf 's-brains in tepid water for several hours to 
cleanse them, and as soon as the thin membrane which covers the 
brains becomes loosened, detach it gently with the fingers; change 
the water frequently, and when the brains have become comparatively 
white, put them into a stewpan with a quart of boiling water, half a 
gill of vinegar, some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, 
mignionette-pepper, and salt ; alllow them to boil gently by the side 
of the fire for twenty minutes, then remove the brains carefully with 
a large spoon into another stewpan, pass their liquor through a sieve 
on them, and set them aside till within twenty minutes of dinner-time. 
The brains must then be warmed in their liquor, and afterward cut 
into thick scollops lengthwise, and placed in the border of potato in 
circular order, overlapping each other ; pour a Bavigoite sauce (No. 21) 
over the brains, glaze the border, and serve. 



271 



CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES, 



COMPRISING 

Chartreuse of Vegetables, with Partridges. Chartreuse of Vegetables, with Tendons of 
„ with Quails. Veal. 






787. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH PAR- 
TRIDGES. 

Scrape eight large carrots, and parboil them in water with a little 
salt for ten minutes ; then put them to boil in some broth with a little 
sugar and salt, and a small pat of butter; when done, place them on 
a dish in the larder to get cold. In the mean time, eight large turnips 
should be peeled, and boiled in the same way as the carrots, and then 
put on a dish to cool. Next, a plain round mould must be lined with 
buttered paper, and the prepared carrots and turnips cut into appro- 
priate forms or shapes for the purpose of arranging them over the 
bottom and round the inside of the mould, taking care that they fit in 
with each other, so as to represent any of the foregoing designs. 
Meanwhile parboil three large savoy cabbages in water ; then immerse 
them in cold water, after which squeeze the moisture from them ; 
spread them upon a napkin on the table, take out the cores, season 
with mignionette-pepper and salt, and tie each up with a string. Then, 
put the cabbages into a large stewpan with three partridges trussed 
with their legs inside, one pound of streaky bacon (previously par- 
boiled), and two large saveloys ; season with two onions stuck with 
four cloves, two carrots, and a garnished faggot ; moisten with three 
pints of stock, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and set 
them to braize gently for about two hours, if the birds are young, or 
three hours if not. When done, drain the cabbage into a colander, 



6 



272 CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES. 

put the partridges, bacon, and saveloys on a dish to cool ; squeeze the 
broth from the cabbage by pressing it tightly in a strong kitchen rub- 
ber; then chop it and afterwards put it into a stewpan with a spoonful 
of brown sauce, and stir it quickly over a brisk fire until it resembles a 
somewhat firm paste. Use this preparation to garnish the bottom and 
sides of the chartreuse, about an inch thick. The partridges must be 
cut up neatly into small members, tossed in enough brown sauce to 
moisten them, and then placed in the cavity of the chartreuse in close 
order, so as to give it solidity when turned out of the mould on its 
dish ; a layer of prepared cabbage should be placed over these, and 
the whole covered with a circular piece of buttered paper. An hour 
before dinner, the chartreuse must be placed in a stewpan with suffi- 
cient water to reach up only one-third the height of the mould ; then 
set the lid on, and put the stewpan near or upon a slow fire to keep the 
water gently simmering, so that the steam may warm the chartreuse 
through. When about to serve, turn the chartreuse up-side-down in 
the dish, and draw the mould off with care, remove the paper, and 
garnish the base with a close border of the bacou and saveloys cut into 
scollops ; pour some brown sauce (worked with essence of vegetables) 
round the entree, glaze the chartreuse carefully, so as not to disturb 
the order of the vegetables, and serve. 

These directions will serve for the preparation of several kinds of 
chartreuses: pheasauts, ducklings, pigeons, &c, being substituted for 
partridges. 

788. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH QUAILS, ETC. 

The preparation of this kind of chartreuse is very similar to the 
foregoing, cabbage-lettuces being substituted for savoys; the following 
are the only alterations required : tfie mould required must be either 
oval or round, according to the shape of the dish intended to be used, 
and should be lined with buttered paper, and ornamented with carrots 
and turnips prepared according to the directions given in the first part 
of the previous article, and afterwards cut out, either with a small knife, 
or proper-shaped tin-cutters, to suit the design intended to be repre- 
sented, from one of the patterns given in the foregoing designs. The 
cavity left in the mould, after it has been decorated with the vegeta- 
bles, must be filled up with the braized cabbage lettuces warmed in the 
same manner as directed for the last-mentioned chartreuse. 

When about to send to table, turn the chartreuse out on its dish, 
place the quails (prepared as for a pdte-chaud, No. 759, and kept warm) 
upon the upper part of the chartreuse, with their breasts outward ; 
fill the centre of the entree with a Jardiniere of vegetables (No. 144), 
garnish the base with small scollops of the streaky bacon and saveloys, 
pour some thin bright Espagnole sauce round the entree, glaze the 
chartreuse lightly, and serve. 

789. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES, GARNISHED WITH TENDONS 

OF VEAL AND STEWED PEAS. 

In this case the chartreuse should be prepared in the same manner 
as described in the foregoing recipe ; and when turned out on its dish 
preparatory to serving it, the top of the border must be garnished 
with braized tendons of veal (No. 885), placed in the same way as cut- 
lets are dished up ; the well or centre of the entree, must be filled with 



CHARTREUSES OF VEGETABLES. 



273 



stewed peas, then pour some brown sauce round the base, glaze the 
chartreuse, and serve. 

This kind of chartreuse may be garnished with scollops of pheasants, 
partridges, larks, &c. ; and also with blanquettes of fowls, lambs' sweet- 
breads, &c. The ornamental part of these entrees may be much varied, 
bv using asparagus-heads, green-peas, French-beans, artichoke-bottoms, 
glazed button-onions, carrots, and turnips turned in fanciful shapes 
and forms. A good effect is produced by arranging a decoration in 
relief on the top of the chartreuse after it has been turned out of the 
mould on to its dish : its base may also be garnished with alternate 
groups of vegetables cut in small fanciful shapes and prepared in the 
usual manner. 



FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES, 



Chartreuse, d la Parisiene. 
„ d la .Belle Vue. 



COMPRISING 

Chartreuse, d la Cardinal. 




790. CHARTREUSE, A LA PARISIENNE. 

First prepare some quenelle force-meat (No. 242), with the fillets 
of three fowls ; trim the tails of sixty boiled crayfish, trim also eight 
inner or minion fillets of fowls, and 
then simmer these in a little clari- 
fied butter and lemon-juice over the 
fire till they are done ; then put 
them on a plate covered with thin 
layers of fat bacon, to keep them 
moist, until they are wanted for fur- 
ther use. 

Next butter a large-sized char- 
lotte-mould, and dispose round the 
inner angle of the bottom a close 
border of crayfish-tails ; while up 

the sides of the mould, some long strips, or pipes, of black truffle (cut 
out with a tin vegetable cutter), must be arranged alternately with 
the prepared fillets of fowls, so as to form a decoration representing 
the " Grecian-key border ;" round the top of this, which, when the 
mould is turned upside down, forms the base, place another close 
border of crayfish tails ; after which, the bottom and sides of the 
chartreuse must be lined with a coating of the prepared quenelle force- 
meat, thus : — Butter a circular piece of paper, cut exactly to the size 
of the mould, and spread thereon a layer of the force-meat an inch 
thick ; smooth this over with a knife dipped in hot water, and then, 
with great care, take hold of the sides of the paper with both hands, 
and turn it upside down into the mould : pass the bottom of a small 
bain-marie filled with hot water over the paper, that the butter may 
become melted, by which the paper will be easily removed. Next, 
cut three pieces of paper to fit in with each other, so as effectually to 
line the mould ; butter these, and then spread them with force-meat, 
as directed for the bottom piece, and apply them in the same way. 
17 



274 FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES. 

Then smooth the cavity with a spoon dipped in hot water, and fill it 
To within an inch of its surface with a thickly-garnished ragout a la 
Toulouse, cold (No. 187). Cover in the top with force-meat, leaving 
the piece of paper on, and keep the chartreuse in a cool place till 
within two hours of dinner-time. It should then be put to steam in 
a deep stewpan, containing sufficient water to reach nearly half way 
up the mould. The water must be kept continually boiling by the 
side of a slow fire, and the stewpan covered with its lid containing live 
embers of charcoal. 

When the chartreuse is done, turn it out of the mould carefully into 
its dish ; cover the top with a border of button-mushrooms, placed 
near the edge, and in the centre put a star, formed with eight very 
small fillets of fowl, decorated with black truffles (previously turned 
in the form of a crescent, on a buttered sauta-pan, covered with very 
thin layers of fat bacon, and gently simmered in the oven for three 
minutes) ; garnish the base of the chartreuse with some thin Toulouse 
ragout, glaze the sides lightly, and serve. 

791. CHARTREUSE, A LA BELLE-VUE. 

Butter smoothly the inside of a plain cylinder mould, and dispose 

round the bottom and sides a bold 
decoration, formed with black truf- 
fles and red tongue ; after which 
carefully fill up the interior of the 
mould with some very delicate que- 
nelle force-meat, prepared from the 
fillets of three partridges. About 
an hour before dinner-time, the 
Chartreuse must be put on to steam, 
as in the foregoing case ; when done, 
turn it out on to its dish ; fill the 
centre with a ragout of scollops of 
fillets of partridges, with the addition of some prepared truffles, cocks'- 
combs, and kernels in a rich Maderia sauce (No. 8) ; glaze the char- 
treuse, and serve. 

792. CHARTREUSE, A LA CARDINAL. 

First, trim the fillets of three pairs of soles, and contises them with 
scollops of the outside part of lobster-tails. Prepare some lobster 

quenelle force-meat (No. 246), in 
which mix the fillets of two whit- 
ings. Then, butter the inside of a 
plain charlotte-mould, and dispose 
therein the prepared fillets of soles, 
as represented in the annexed illus- 
tration ; next, line the bottom and 
sides of the chartreuse with some of 
the lobster force-meat, in the same 
way as directed for the chartreuse a 
la Parisienne ; fill the cavity with a 
Parisian ragout (No. 303), the sauce 
of which must be kept stiff, and used cold for this purpose ; cover in 
the top with a layer of force-meat, and steam the chartreuses for one 





BREAD CROUSTADES. 



275 



hour and a half; when done, place it upside down on its dish, and 
draw the mould off carefully, in order to avoid disturbing the fillets. 
Garnish the edges of the chartreuse with a close border of small round 
truffles, and in the centre arrange a neatly-formed group of trimmed 
crayfish-tails, previously warmed in a little glaze and lobster coral 
butter; pour some Parisian ragout (No. 203) round the base, and 
serve. 



ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES OF BREAD, 

COMPRISING 

Ornamental Cr6ustades. CrSnetade of Bread, with Scollops of Fat 

Cr6uetades of Bread, garnished with Calves' Livers, a d V Epicurienne. 

tails, d la Poulette. „ „ with Quails, d la Bour- 

„ „ with Lambs' brains, guignotte. 

in Matelotte Sauce. 

793. ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES. 

For a croustade of ordinary dimensions, a 41b. loaf of close bread 
should be procured two days before it is wanted for use, as it must be 
stale for this purpose. In order to prevent waste, the loaf should be 
baked in an oval, square, or round tin case, according to the intended 
form of the croustade ; and when this is required for a remove or 
flank dish, the loaf must be made of a proportionate size. 

When the crust has been pared off the loaf with a sharp knife, it 
must be carved in the form of a fluted or chased vase or cup, accord- 
ing to the following patterns : 





276 BREAD CROUSTADES. 

The crbustade thus carved, must next be fried of a light fawn color, 
in some clean hog's-lard, made quite hot for the purpose, the inside 
crumb carefully taken out, and the cavity smoothly covered with a 
thin coating of quenelle force-meat : the object of which is to prevent 
the escape or absorption of the sauce from the entree, afterward placed 
in it : when this is done, the crbustade must be put in the oven for five 
minutes, to bake the quenelle force-meat, and to be kept hot until 
served. 

794. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH CALVES'-TAILS, 

A LA POULETTE. 

Scald two calves'-tails with the skin on, in the same way as calves- 
heads ; cut these up in joints, parboil them in water for five minutes, 
and then immerse them in cold water ; after which drain them on a 
napkin, trim and place them in a stewpan with some blanc (No. 235), 
or failing this, with a carrot, an onion, garnished faggot of parsley, 
four cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns ; moisten with 
three pints of broth, or water, in which latter case add some salt ; and 
set them to boil gently for about an hour by the side of the stove-fire. 
When the tails are done, drain them on a napkin, trim them neatly, 
and place them in the crbustade in pyramidal form, pour over them a 
rich sauce d la pouletle, containing two dozen button-mushrooms ; 
garnish the inner edge of the crbustade with a border of fluted scollops 
of red tongue, glaze a large black truffle, place it on the top, and 
serve. 

795. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH LAMBS' BRAINS, 

IN MATELOTTE SAUCE. 

TriE brains must be prepared as directed in No. 786, and when 
they are done, put to drain upon a napkin, preparatory to their being 
cut into scollops, and afterward placed in circular order in the crbus- 
tade. Pour a matelotte sauce (No. 31), made in this case of white wine 
with a little cayenne and lemon-juice, and containing some small 
button-onions, previously simmered in butter, 3 oz. of truffles cut in 
scollops, a dozen small quenelles, a few mushrooms, and trimmed cray- 
fish-tails ; crown the top with six large crayfish, between which place 
a fried crouton of bread, cut in the shape of a leaf; in the centre of 
these, put a large truffle, and serve. 

796. CROUSTADE OF BREAD, GARNISHED WITH SCOLLOPS OF FAT 

LIVERS, A L'EPICURIENNE. 

When about to send the crbustade to table, garnish it with a ragout 
of fat livers, prepared as follows : — 

Wrap two Strasbourg livers in thin layers of fat bacon, and simmer 
them very gently in a wine mirepoix (No. 236) for half an hour ; then 
remove the stewpan from the fire, and allow the livers to cool in their 
liquor; they must now be taken out, cut into scollops without waste, 
and placed in a small deep sautapan, containing 4 oz. of black 
Perigord truffles cut into scollops, a dozen small quenelles of game, and 
a few button-mushrooms; to these add about half the mirepoix, freed 
from every particle of grease, and set the whole to boil briskly over 
the fire until the moisture be reduced to a glaze ; next, pour iu some 



TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 277 

brown fine-herbs sauce (Xo. 14), in sufficient quantity for the entree, 
toss the whole together over the fire, and use this ragout as directed 
above. A border of large double white cocks'-combs may be placed 
round the edge of the croustade, and a fine large Perigord truffle in 
the centre. 

797. CROUSTADE OE BREAD. GARNISHED WITH QUAILS AU 
GRATIN, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Let a croustade be cut in the form of a cup, not more than fiv<> 
inches high, the carving of which must present eight bold fluted 
scollops at the upper part, and be brought to a tapering point toward 
the foot, as represented in one of the foregoing illustrations. When 
the cruustade has been fried, the inner crumb must lie removed, and the 
cavities lined with a well-seasoned farce of fat livers (Xo. 240). pre- 
viously prepared for the purpose, leaving sufficient room fur the 
insertion, in each of the scolloped flutes, of a quail that has been boned 
and fdled with some of the farce, then trussed and partially braized; 
these must then be neatly garnished round with some of the farce. 
covered over with thin layers of fat bacon, and a thick band of but- 
tered paper, secured with string, round the cruustade, to prevent it from 
acquiring more color while in the oven. About an hour before dinner- 
time, set the cri.ustade in a moderately-heated men, to be baked. Just 
before sending it to table, remove the paper and bacon, absorb all the 
grease with the corner of a clean napkin, and place it carefully on its 
dish. On the breast of each quail place a very small fillet of fowl of 
circular form, colitises or decorated with black truffle, and then sim- 
mered in a buttered sautapan, covered with thin layers of bacon, to 
keep them white; between each quail place a large white cocks'-comb, 
till the centre with a Bourguignotte ragout (Xo. 195), finished with the 
addition of some extract made from the carcasses of the quails, reduced 
to glaze, and serve. 

Note. — Ornamental croustades of bread may also lie garnished with 
puree of fowls a la Heine, ditto of game a la Polonaise, &e. ; and with 
almost every kind of ragout or garnish directed to be used for pates- 
chauds, voVau'vents, borders of rice and potato-paste, for which see 
those articles. 



TURBAXS AXD MAZAEIXES, 

COMPRISING 

Turban of Ox-palates, d la Pirigueux. Turban of Fillets of Hare?, a la Conti. 
„ Fillets (if Fowls, d la Prince .. Fillets of Soles, a la Ximnncn. 

de Galtes. Mazarine of Whitings, a la Venitir.nne. 
„ Fillets of Rabbits, a la Finan- „ Fat Livers, d la Toulouse. 

ciire. 

798. TURBAN OF OX-PALATES, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Braize eight ox-palates, and wdien done, place them between two 
dishes, to press them flat ; prepare about 2 lbs. of gratin force-meat 



278 



TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 




(No. 249) ; decorate or contises twelve minion fillets of fowls, and cover 
them with thin layers of bacou till wanted. 

Next, roll out about 4 oz. of firm common paste, to the size of a 
dessert-plate, and bake it in a slack oven ; this is to serve for a foun- 
dation to raise the entree upon. Next, trim the ox-palates,. split each 
in two with a sharp knife, in the same way as thin layers of bacon are 

cut ; trim eight of these, spread 
the rough side with a thin 
layer of the gratin force-meat, 
then roll them up ; put the 
piece of paste before alluded to 
on a round baking-sheet ; spread 
it with a layer of the force- 
meat, a quarter of an inch thick, 
and after having trimmed the 
rolled ox-palates, to make them 
fit in with each other in cir- 
cular order, place them firmly 
together on the foundation of 
paste prepared to receive them, 
taking care to put a little force-meat between each, to fill up the fissures, 
and unite them ; upon each fissure, one of the decorated fillets must 
be neatly laid, and turned under to secure it. The remaining eight 
pieces of ox-palates must then be trimmed, garnished with force-meat 
like the former, and afterward cut to the size of two-thirds of the 
others, and with these smaller rolls of ox-palates, a second tier must be 
formed upon the first, in similar fashion, and upon each joining, a 
decorated fillet is to be placed likewise. Any roughness occasioned by 
the force-meat must be neatly smoothed over with a knife, dipped in 
water ; a thick carrot, or piece of bread, cut in the shape of a pillar, 
and covered with fat bacon, should be placed in the centre of the entree, 
to support its shape while being baked. The whole of the turban must 
be covered in with thin layers of fat bacon, and these must be secured 
ou by means of a thick band of buttered paper, cut in slits round the 
base (to enable it to fit closer), and secured round the entree with 
string : this will serve also to keep the turban in shape. One hour and 
a half before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be baked ; 
when done, remove the paper, &c, and with the end of a large skimmer, 
place the turban on its dish, fill the centre with a ragout of small 
truffles, pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) round the base of the 
entree, lightly glaze the palates, without touching the fillets — which 
must be kept as white as possible — and serve. 

799. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PRINCE DE GALLES. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat of fowls (No. 242) or veal ; and 
with part of it fill a plain cylindrical mould, measuring about four 
inches high and six in diameter, previously buttered inside. This 
must be steamed in a covered stewpan, with a little water in it ; and 
when done, turned out*of the mould upon a plate, and allowed to cool ; 
it should then be placed upon a foundation of baked paste, the 
angles of the quenelle rounded, and the whole of it covered with a thin 
coating of force-meat : upon this turban of quenelle, six larded fillets 
of fowls should be placed, with the point made to turn over the top ; 



TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 



279 




between each of these, insert a decorated minion fillet ; cover the 
latter with thin layers of fat bacon, 
and secure the entree round with a 
band of buttered paper made fast 
with string. Three quarters of an 
hour before dinner-time, put the 
turban in the oven to be baked ; 
when it is done, remove the paper 
and the bacon from the small fillets, 
glaze the larded fillets brightly, gar- 
nish the well of the entree with a 
Parisian ragout (No. 203), pour 
some of the same round the base, 
and serve. 

800. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF RABBITS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Take out the fillets from four rabbits, trim and lard them closely. 
With the flesh of the legs, prepare some quenelle force-meat, and use 
part of this to make a cylindrical foundation, as in the foregoing case ; 
when cold trim the top of this round, and after it has been spread 
with a thin coating of the force-meat, lay the larded fillets round its 
sides in a slanting position, with the small end of each turned over at 
the top, and made to reach about an inch down the cylinder ; between 
each "fillet of rabbit, a closely-studded row of cock's-kernels must be 
deeply inserted in the coating of quenelle force-meat, and these should 
be covered with thin strips of fat bacon to keep them white. A but- 
tered band of paper must be placed round the turban, and secured with 
string. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be 
baked ; when it is done, remove the paper, glaze the larded fillets, and 
afterwards pick the bacon off the kernels without disturbing them ; fill 
the centre of the entree with a Financiere ragout (No. 188), pour 
some round the base, and serve. 

801. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF HARES, A LA CONTI. 

Take out the fillets of three young hares, and by splitting each fillet 
into halves, lengthwise, of equal thickness, twelve fillets will be obtained ; 
these must then be neatly trimmed and contises from one end to the 
other with scollops of black truffles. Use the flesh of the legs to 
prepare some quenelle force-meat ; and, as in the foregoing cases, a 
foundation must be made with part of this, to raise the turban upon it. 
When the cylinder of force-meat has been poached or steamed, and is 
cold enough, place it upon the foundation of paste, trim the top round, 
and spread it over with a coating of force-meat ; lay the decorated 
fillets of hare slantingly round the sides with their tapering points 
secured inside the cylinder with a little force-meat, and cover the 
turban with thin layers of fat bacon, secured round with a band of 
paper in the usual way. An honr before dinner-time, put the turban 
in the oven to be baked, and when it is done, remove the paper and 
bacon, dish it up, fill the centre with scollops ofblack truffles and white 
mushrooms, pour some brown Italian sauce (No. 12) over and round 
the entree, and serve. 

Note. — The two foregoing entrees may be varied in their appearance, 



280 



TURBANS AND MAZARINES. 




by larding one-half of the fillets, and decorating the remainder with 
truffles or red tongue. 

802. TURBAN OF FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA XIMENES. 

Trim the fillets of four middle-sized soles, contises half with red 
tongue, and the remainder with thin scollops of green Indian gherkins; 
prepare some quenelle force-meat with four whitings, with part of which 
make a cylindrical foundation in the manner described for the fillets 
of fowls a la Prince de Galles. Spread a coating of force-meat over 

this, and then place the fillets of 
soles round it in a slanting position, 
alternating those decorated with 
tongue with the others ; the fillets 
must be neatly turned under the 
base, and securely fastened inside 
the cylinder with the point of a 
knife and a little force-meat. Cover 
the turban with thin layers of fat 
bacon, and fasten a band of buttered 
paper round it with string. An 
hour before dinner-time, put the 
tuban in the oven to be baked ; 
when it is done, remove the paper 
and bacon, place the turban carefully on its dish, garnish the centre 
with a ragout of muscles (No. 197), pour some Tomata sauce (No. 22) 
round the base, and serve. 

803. MAZARINE OF WHITINGS, A LA VENITIENNE. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of five whitings, 

and mix therewith a large gravy- 
spoonful of puree of mushrooms 
(No. 122), some chopped parsley, 
two ounces of black truffles also 
chopped, and two whisked whites 
of eggs. Next, butter a plain round 
mould, line the inside with white 
paper, and then fill it with the force- 
meat. An hour before dinner-time, 
steam the mazarine in the usual 
way, and when done, turn it out of 
the mould on its dish ; place a 
border of contises fillets of whitings 
round the top, fill the centre with a 

ragout of crayfish -tails and muscles, pour some Venetian sauce (No. 26), 

round the sides of the mazarine, and serve. 

804. MAZARINE OF FAT LIVERS, A LA TOULOUSE. 

Procure two fine ^Strasbourg fat livers, cut therefrom twelve flat 
scollops in the form of flat fingers, and with the trimmings make some 
force-meat (No. 249). Next line a plain round mould with buttered 
white paper, and then fill it with the prepared ingredients thus: 
Spread a layer of force-meat half an inch thick at the bottom of the 




ENTREES OF BEEF. 281 

mould, then line the sides in a similar manner ; place the scollops of 
fat livers in a perpendicular position, fill up the interstices with 
scollops of French truffles and the remainder of the force-meat, and 
cover the top with buttered paper. An hour and a half before dinner- 
time, steam the mazarine in a deep stewpan with a little water, and 
cover it with its lid containing live embers of charcoal. Care must be 
taken to prevent the water from boiling over into the mould. When 
the mazarine is done, turn it out of the mould on its dish, place a 
border of minion fillets of fowls decorated with truffles, curled round 
in rings, and simmered in butter, fill the centre with a rich Toulouse 
ragout (No. 181), pour some Madeira sauce (No. 8), over the entree, 
and serve. 



ENTREES OF BEEF, 



COMPRISING 



Plain Rump Steak, Minced Beef, d la Portugaise. 

Beef Steak, a la Frangafse. Hashed Beef, plain. 

„ with Anchovy-butter. Hashed Beef, and broiled Bones. 

Fillets of Beef in their own glaze, Ac. Braized Beef, d la Claremont. 

Minced Beef, with Poached Eggs. Bubble and Squeak. 

805. PLAIN RUMP STEAK. 

The steak should be cut rather thick, neatly trimmed, seasoned with 
a little pepper and salt, and boiled over a clear fire ; when done, 
remove it carefully from the gridiron, in order to preserve the gravy 
which collects on its upper surface. Place the steak on its dish, rub 
a small pat of fresh butter over it, garnish round with grated horse- 
radish, and send some beef gravy separately in a sauce-boat. Epicures, 
however, prefer the gravy which runs out of a juicy steak when well 
broiled to any other addition. 

Small ribs of beef, and especially steaks cut from between the small 
ribs, form an excellent substitute for rump-steaks ; both, when nicely 
broiled, may be served with cold Maitre aV Hotel butter, anchovy ditto; 
and also with the following sauces : Brown oyster, muscles, Italian, 
Pfquante, Poor-man's, Poivrade, Tomata, Provengale, Fine-herbs, 
&c. ; for making which, see Special .Sauces. 

806. BEEFSTEAK, A LA FRANCAISE. 

Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef across the grain of the meat 
into three pieces ; flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and trim them of a 
round or oval form ; tnen cut and trim three pieces of suet, half the size 
of the former : dip the steaks in a little clarified butter, season with 
pepper and salt, and place them on the gridiron over a clear fire to 
broil ; when done, glaze them on both sides, dish them up on two 
ounces of cold Maitre (VHotel butter (No. 44), garnish round with 
fried potatoes, and serve. 

These potatoes must be cut or turned in the form of olives, and fried 
in a little clarified butter. 



282 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

807. BEEFSTEAKS WITH ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, but anchovy 
butter must be substituted for Maltre d'Hotel. 

Note. — French beef-steaks are always cut from the fillet, and may 
be served with any of the savory butters described in this work ; they 
may also be garnished with Indian pickle, water-cresses, turned olives, 
and with all the varieties of common pickles, or with either of the 
sauces named for small rib-steaks. 

808. FILLETS, OR SCOLLOPS, OF BEEF IN THEIR GLAZE. 

Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef into four pieces, flatten and 
trim these round or oval, season with pepper and salt, put them with a 
like number of smaller pieces of beef-suet in a sauta-pan containing two 
ounces of clarified butter. Ten minutes before sending them to table, 
set the sauta-pan on a brisk stove-fire, and fry the fillets of a brown 
color ; when they are done on both sides, pour off the grease, add a 
table-spoonful of glaze and twice as much brown sauce, twenty mush- 
rooms, with some of their liquor, and the juice of half a lemon ; allow 
the whole to boil for one minute on the fire, dish the fillets with a piece 
of fat on each, place the mushrooms in the centre, and pour the sauce 
over all. 

Note. — Fillets of beef prepared in this manner may be dressed with 
either oysters, muscles, olives, truffles, gherkins cut into scollops, fried 
onions, fine-herbs, morels, &c, added to the sauce after they have been 
fried, instead of the mushrooms, as in the foregoing case. They may 
also be served when finished, wifh the addition of a piece of glaze 
and enough brown sauce for the entree, with every kind of pun'r 
of vegetables and vegetable garnish described in this work ; as 
also with any of the sauces recommended to be served with broiled 
steaks. 

In all cases, the garnish of these entrees must be placed in the 
centre of the fillets, in a conical form, and the sauce poured rouud 
the fillets. 

809. MINCED BEEF WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Pare the fat and skin off one pound of roast beef, cut it into thin 
small slices, and then mince these very fine by chopping them. Put 
the mince into a stewpan with two large gravy-spoonsful of brown 
sauce, and a small piece of glaze, stir the whole over the fire until quite 
hot, dish it up in a conical form, place six poached eggs round the 
mince, pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve. 

For those who like high seasoning, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 
and Cayenne pepper may be added to the mince. 

810. MINCED BEEF, A LA PORTTJGUAISE. 

Trim one pound of roast or braized beef, cut it up in pieces the 
size of a finger, and then with a sharp knife mince these into small 
shavings, and put them into a stewpan. Next, put two glasses of 
Port wine into a stewpan with one chopped shalot, the rind of an 
orange cut into small shreds, a little grated nutmeg, Cayenne pepper, 



ENTREES OF BEEF. 283 

and the juice of half a lemon ; boil these ingredients down to one-third 
of their original quantity, add enough Espagnole sauce for the entree, 
and mix the preparation with the minced beef; dish this up in a coni- 
cal form, shake some light-colored raspings of bread-crust over it ; 
place a border round the base consisting of six poached eggs, the same 
number of oval scollops of red tongue, and oval croutons fried in butter 
of a light color and glazed. Pour some of the sauce reserved for the 
purpose round the base, aud serve. 

811. HASHED BEEF, PLAIN". 

Slice the beef up in very thin pieces, season with pepper and salt, 
and shake a little flour over it. Next, chop a middle-sized onion, and 
put it into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, and an 
equal quantity of mushroom catsup ; boil these together for two min- 
utes, and then add half a pint of broth or gravy ; boil this down to 
half its quantity, throw in the beef, set the hash to boil on the stove- 
fire for five minutes longer, and then serve with sippets of toasted bread 
round it when dished up. 

812. HASHED BEEF AND BROILED BONES. 

Slice the beef up as in the foregoing case, and set it aside on a 
plate. Cut the bones into pieces about two inches long or square, 
having a little meat left on them ; score them all over by making deep 
incisions across them, season with plenty of pepper and a little salt, 
and put them on a plate. Slice two onions and fry them brown, then 
add enough brown sauce for the hash, or if there be none ready, shake 
a table-spoonful of flour over the onions, stir this over the fare for a 
minute, then add half a pint of good broth or gravy and a table-spoon- 
ful of mushroom catsup ; stir the whole on the fire until reduced to 
two-thirds of the original quantity, and then rub it through a tammy 
into a puree ; mix this with the sliced beef, make the hash quite hot, 
dish it up with the broiled bones (glazed) round it, and serve. 

813. SLICES OF BRAIZED BEEF, A LA CLAREMONT. 

This entree, with its undermentioned varieties, may be served when 
it happens that any braized beef remains from a previous day's 
dinner. 

The beef must be cut in rather thin round, or oval slices, placed in 
a* sautapan in neat order, aud warmed with a gravy-spoonful of good 
stock ; these must then be dished up in a circle — overlapping each 
other closely — pour some Claremont sauce (No. 58) over them, and 
serve. 

Note. — Slices of braized beef warmed and dished up, as in the fore- 
going case, may be greatly varied by being afterward garnished with 
macaroni prepared with grated cheese, a little glaze and tomata-sauce, 
also with all sharp sauces, with purees of vegetables, and with vege- 
table garnishes. 

814. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. 

Cut some slices (not too thin) of cold boiled round, or edge-bone, 
of salt beef; trim them neatly, as also an equal number of pieces of 
the white fat of the beef, and set them aside on a plate. Boil two 



284 ENTREES OF OX-CHEEKS. 

summer or Savoy cabbages, remove the stalks, chop them fine, and pnt 
them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter and one ounce 
of glaze ; season with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, 
fry the slices of beef in a sauta or frying pan, commencing with the 
pieces of fat ; stir the cabbage on the fire until quite hot, and then pile 
it up in the centre of the dish ; place the slices of beef and the pieces 
of fat round it, pour a little brown sauce over the whole, and serve. 



ENTREES OF OX- CHEEKS, 

COMPRISING 

Braized Ox-cheeks, with Ptirie of Green Braized Ox-cheeks, d la Provenqale. 

Peas. „ „ with stewed Cabhage. 

„ „ d la Flamande. „ „ d la Jardiniere. 

„ „ d la Bretonne. ' 

815. BEAIZED OX-CHEEK, WITH PUREE OF GREEN PEAS. 
Bone an ox-cheek, and steep it in cold water for two hours ; then 
parboil it in water for five minutes, immerse it in cold water, drain, and 
trim it, break up the bones, and put them at the bottom of an oval 
stewpan, place the cheek upon them, and garnish with carrot, onion, 
celery, garnished faggot of parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, and 
twelve pepper-corns; moisten with two quarts of broth or water (if 
the latter, add some salt) ; set the ox-cheek to braize very gently by 
the side of a stove-fire for about two hours ; when done, take it up 
carefully, and put it to press between two dishes. Half the broth may 
be used for preparing some brown sauce with, and the remainder boiled 
down to a half glaze. Next, cut the ox-cheek up into twelve pieces 
of equal size, shape them either round, square, oblong, or oval; trim 
them neatly, and place them in a sautapan with the half glaze. Ten 
minutes before sending to table, put the ox-cheeks, covered with the 
lid, to simmer gently on the stove-fire until they are warmed through, 
and then set them to boil quickly over a brisk fire for three minutes ; 
roll them in their glaze, and afterward dish them up in a circle, closely 
overlapping each other; fill the centre of the entree with some thick 
puree of green peas (No. 136), pour a little brown sauce round the 
base, and serve. * 

816. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA FLAMANDE. 

This is prepared, cut, and dished up as in the foregoing. Between 
each scollop of ox-cheek insert a piece of carrot previously boiled in 
broth, and rolled in its own glaze; fill the centre with a garnish of 
Brussels-sprouts, round which place a neat border of prepared turnips 
cut in fancy shapes; pour a little thin Espagnole sauce round the 
entree, and serve. 

817. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA BRETONNE. 
Prepare and dish up the pieces of ox-cheek as directed in the first 

case ; and just before sending to table, fill the centre with some purro 
of potatoes (No. 116), pour some Bretonne sauce (No. 27) over the 
pieces of ox-cheek, and serve. 



OX-PALATES. - 285 

818. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA PROVENCALE. 

This when dished up must be garnished round the base with a 
border of ripe tomatas prepared au gratin (No. 1160) ; fill tho centre 
of the entree with some Provengale sauce (No. 25), and serve. 

819. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, WITH STEWED CABBAGES. 

When the ox-cheek is prepared for braizing, as directed in No. 816, 
about one pound of German sausage must be added, also half a 
pound of streaky bacon, and two savoy-cabbages, previously cut in 
halves, parboiled in water, the stalks removed, and afterward tied up 
with string. The whole must be covered with a round buttered paper, 
and set to braize gently for about two hours ; as soon as it is done, 
the ox-cheek should be put in press, and when cold cut into scollops and 
placed in a sautapan with some half glaze ; the bacon and sausage 
must be also cut in neat scollops and kept hot in a sautapan with a 
little half glaze. The cabbage must first be drained in a colander, 
and then pressed in a napkin, and afterward cut out in cork-shaped 
pieces. The scollops of ox-cheek should be dished up in a close circle, 
alternately placing a scollop of ox-cheek with the bacon and sausage : 
and so on, until the whole is used up. , Next, place the cabbage 
round the base in a neat border, and upon each piece of cabbage set a 
ring of carrot, with a piece of turnip cut in the form of a very small 
pear, in its centre ; fill the well of the entree with a garnish of carrots 
and turnips, cut in very small fancy shapes, pour some Espagnole 
sauce round the base and serve. 

The carrots and turnips, above alluded to, must, of course, be boiled 
in broth, with a little sugar, and afterward boiled dow* in their glaze. 

820. BRAIZED OX-CHEEK, A LA JARDINIERE. 

Braize, cut up, and dish the ox-cheek as directed in the first article; 
then fill the centre of the entree with a garnish of vegetables a la 
Jardiniere (No. 144), pour some half glaze or thin Espagnole sauce 
round the base, and serve. 



DRESSED OX-PALATES, 



COMPRISING 



Oanelons of Ox-palates, with Poivrade Curry of Ox-palates. 

.sauce Ox-palates in cases, with fine-herbs. 

Paupiiites of Ox-palates d la Financiire. Attereaux of Ox-palates, d la D' Uxelles. 
Ox-palates, d la Tortue. 

821. CANELONS OF OX-PALATES, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 

Cleanse and braize six ox-palates, and put them in press, as di- 
rected in No. 209, between two dishes until they are cold. The ox-pal- 
ates must then be trimmed and split in halves, lengthwise; each of these 
must be again divided across in two, crosswise ; the twenty-four pieces 
thus produced should be laid upon a large dish, and covered on one side 
only with some thick cold d'Uxelles sauce (No. 16). The canelons must 
then be rolled up in the form of a cartridge, and each first dipped in 
beaten egg (seasoned with a little salt) and afterward bread-crumbed. 



286 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

Jnst before sending to table, the canelons should be fried in some clean 
hog's-Iard, made quite hot for the purpose ; they must be piled up in 
the dish, in a pyramidal form, with green fried parsley in the centre, 
round the base, and on the top. >Send some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) 
in a boat. 

Note. — Instead of bread-crumbing the canelons, if preferred, they 
may be dipped in a light-made batter, and then fried. 

822. PAUPIETTES OF OX-PALATES, A LA FINASTCIERE. 

Braize and cut up the ox-palates as in the foregoing case ; then 
trim the twenty-four pieces thus produced into oblong scollops, 
measuring about two inches by three and a half; lay these on an 
earthen dish, and spread upon each a thin layer of quenelle force-meat 
of veal or poultry, in which some fine-herbs have been mixed. The 
ox-palates .should then be rolled firmly in the form of cartridges, and 
six of these, disposed lengthwise in a buttered sheet of writing paper, 
must be rolled up tightly in it, and placed in a deep sautapan : the 
remainder are to be finished in the same manner, and kept in the cool 
until wanted. Half an hour before dinner-time set the paupiettes 
on a stove-fire, at the same time adding to them about a quart of 
boiling broth or consomme ; as soon as they begin to boil, put the lid 
on, and set them to simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire for 
twenty minutes. The paupiettes must be drained on a napkin, the 
ends of each neatly cut off, then placed in a sautapan with a little 
half glaze, and again set on the fire to be rolled in this as it boils 
down ; after, they should be dished up in a pyramidal, or a conical 
form, and a Financiere ragout (No. 188) poured over the entree, and 
sent to table. 

823. OX-PALATES, A LA TORTUE. 

Braize the ox-palates as before directed, put them in press, and 
when cold, stamp them out in scollops, with a circular tin cutter two 
inches in diameter, and put them in a small deep sautapan with a little 
of the sauce intended for the entree. Twenty minutes before sending 
to table, make the scollops quite hot, and place them in neat order, in 
and round the base of an ornamental croustade of fried bread, pre- 
viously prepared for the purpose, and made fast on the centre of the 
dish, with a little paste made of flour and white of egg ; dispose the 
ragout a la tortue, omitting the pieces of calf 's-bead (No. 189) taste- 
fully about the entree, and serve. 

824. CURRY OF OX-PALATES. 

Prepare the scollops of ox-palates, as in the foregoing case, and 
put them in a good curry-sance (No. 47). Just before sending to 
table make the curry quite hot, and dish it up with boiled rice pressed 
into a border-mould, and then turned out on its dish. 

The above is the simplest manner of serving this enirtie, but it looks 
much better when dressed with an ornamental rice border, in which 
case some plain boiled Patna rice must be served separately. 

825. ATTEREAUX OF OX-PALATES, A LA D'UXELLES. 

Braize four ox-palates ; when done put them in press between two 
dishes ; as soon as they are cold, trim both sides, cut them into inch- 



ox-piths. 287 

square scollops, and place these on a large earthen dish, together with 
about half their quantity of square pieces of truffles and mushrooms ; 
pour some reduced D'Uxelles sauce (No. 16) over the w'hole, and 
when the sauce has become set, run the scollops upon twelve small 
silver skewers, intermixing the truffles and mushrooms alternately with 
the ox-palates ; gather the sauce from the dish with a knife, and spread 
it upon the attereaux to give them a square, smooth form. They 
must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, afterward dipped in beaten eggs, 
and again bread-crumbed. Half an hour before sending to table, fry 
the attereaux in clean hog's lard, made hot for the purpose ; dish them 
up neatly with parsley, fried green and crisp, placed in the centre, and 
serve. 

826. OX-PALATES IN CASES, WITH FESTE-HERBS. 

Prepare the ox palates in small circular scollops, and put them into 
a stewpan containing about two-thirds of their quantity of scollops of 
truffles and mushrooms ; to these add sufficieut reduced fine-herbs 
sauce (No. 14) for the entree, mix the whole, and with this fill twelve 
small square, or plaited circular paper cases, previously oiled and 
baked in the oven for five minutes ; cover them with a layer of rasp- 
ings of bread, or bread-crumbs, fried of a light color, and place them 
upon a baking-sheet covered with clean paper. About half an hour 
before sending to table, put these cases in the oven to be baked, or 
rather warmed through, and then dish them up on a folded napkin, 
with fried parsley round the base of the entree, and serve. 



OX-PITHS, 

COMPRISING 

Ox-piths, & la Ravigotte. CrSustades of Ox-piths. 

„ in cases, with fine-herbs. 

827. OX-PITHS,* A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Procure about 1 lb. of ox-piths, steep them in water for a couple 
of hours, wash them thoroughly, and then carefully remove the mem- 
branous covering, and change the water. Next, slice up an onion 
and a small carrot very thin, and put these into a stewpan with a 
quart of hot water, mignionette pepper, and salt, a little thyme and 
bay-leaf, three cloves, and a blade of mace, and half a gill of vinegar ; 
set these to boil on the fire, drop in the ox-piths, and allow them to 
boil geutly for ten minutes ; then set them aside to cool. Drain them 
on a napkin, and cut them in three-inch lengths, then place them in 
a basin, with a few sprigs of parsley, three sliced shalots, some mignion- 
ette pepper, and salt, three table-spoonsful of salad-oil, and one of 
vinegar. The ox-piths must be left to steep in this pickle till within 
about ten minutes of dinner-time, when they must be drained upon 
a napkin, then dipped separately in some light batter, and fried 
in clean hog's-lard made quite hot for the purpose. Dish them up 

* The pith consists of the spinal marrow, which is more generally taken from sides 
of beef; that taken from veal and mutton is also occasionally used. 



288 ENTREES OF BEEF. 

with fried parsley, and send some Ravigotte sauce in a boat, to be 
handed round. 

To save trouble, the piths, when fried, may be dished up without a 
napkin or fried parsley, and the sauce poured under them. But in 
this case, unless they are eaten as soon as dished up, the vapor arising 
from the sauce destroys much of their crispness. 

Note. — Ox-piths, when fried according to the foregoing directions, 
may also be served with any of the following sauces, viz : — Piquante, 
Poivrade, Italian, Tomata, &c. 

828. OX-PITHS IN CASES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Prepare these, in the first instance, according to the directions con- 
tained in the foregoing article. They must then be drained npon a 
napkin, cut into inch lengths, and placed in a small stewpan, with 
sufficient D'Uxelles sauce (No. 16) for the entree they should then be 
gently mixed together, and put into about a dozen small square or 
round paper cases, the surfaces of which are to be strewn with rasp- 
ings, or fried bread-crumbs, and then placed upon a clean baking- 
sheet. About twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cases 
in the oven to get thoroughly warmed ; dish them up neatly in a 
pyramidal form, and serve some fine-herbs, or brown Italian sauce, 
separately in a boat. 

829. CROUSTADES, OR PATTIES OF OX-PITHS. 

In this case, the ox-piths must be prepared according to the first 
part of the directions for dressing them a la Ravigotte ; they must then 
be cut into half-inch lengths, and placed in a small stewpan, with 
about half their quantity of prepared mushrooms, and two artichoke 
bottoms, previously cut into small dice ; to this may be added some 
fiuished Expagnole sauce (No. 3), a little cayenne, and lemon-juice ; 
warm the whole together on the stove-fire, and garnish the croustades, 
or patties, with it. 



OX-TONGUES, 



COMPRISING 



Ox-tongues, with Spinach. Ox-tongues, d la Jardinilre. 

„ with Brussels-sprouts. „ d I'AUemande. 

„ d la ilacidoine. „ with Sauer-Kraut. 

830. OX-TONGUE, WITH SPINACH. 

Procure a pickled tongue, run an iron skewer through it from the 
root to the pointed end, tie a piece of string on one ene of the skewer, 
and fasten it at the other, so as to keep it in shape. The tongue 
should then be put on the fire in cold water, and kept gently boiling 
for about three hours, when it must be taken up, and after removing 
the outer cuticle, should be placed in the larder to cool ; it should 
then be neatly trimmed, wrapped in a piece of buttered paper, and 
put into an oval stewpan, with a little common broth. Three-quar- 



OX-TONGUE. 289 

ters of an hour before sending it to table, put the tongue in the oven, 
or on a slow fire, to get warmed through ; then glaze it, and dish it 
up with some prepared spinach (No. 112) round it, pour a little 
Espagnole sauce, or some half-glaze round the base, and serve. 

831. OX-TONGUE, WITH BRUSSELS SPEOUTS. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, except that 
Brussels sprouts (No. 1192) must be substituted for spinach. 

832. OX-TONGUE, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Prepare the tongue as in the foregoing cases, and when about to 
send to table, glaze and dish it up with a white Macedoine of vege- 
tables (No. 143) placed neatly round it, and serve. 

833. OX-TONGUE, A LA JARDINIERE. 

The tongue, when dished up, must be garnished round with groups 
of glazed carrots and turnips, cut in small fancy shapes, and boiled 
in broth, with a pinch of sugar and a little salt, previously to their 
being boiled down in their own glaze ; these must be alternated with 
similar groups of flowerets of cauliflowers, heads of asparagus-peas, 
or French-beans cut in the form of diamonds and boiled green. Pour 
some half glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base, and send to table. 

• 834. BRAIZED OX-TONGUE, A L'ALLEMANDE 

Scald a fresh ox-tongue in boiling water upon the fire for about 
ten minutes ; then immerse it in cold water, remove the root and 
any superfluous fat. Next, place the tongue in an oval stewpan with 
a carrot, an onion, one head of celery, a garnished faggot, four cloves, 
and a blade of mace ; add a glass of brandy and sufficient good broth 
or stock to cover the whole, and set it to braize gently for two hours 
and a half upon a slow fire. "When the tongue is done, take it out of the 
braize, trim and put it into a stewpan with its own liquor, previously 
divested of all the grease, strained through a sieve, and boiled down 
to half its quantity. About half an hour before sending to table, set 
the tongue on a very slow fire to simmer until it is warmed through ; 
roll it in its glaze, dish it up with some cherry sauce a la Victoria 
(No. 64) under it, garnish it round with a border of potato quenelles 
(No. 312), and serve. 

835. OX-TONGUE, WITH SAUER-KRAUT. 

For this purpose choose a smoked tongue, and let it soak in cold 
water for four-and-twenty hours previously to its being dressed. The 
tongue must now be parboiled for half an hour, and immersed in cold 
water ; then remove the root, and truss it with a skewer and some 
string to keep it in shape ; next, place it in an oval stewpan with one 
pound and a half of saiter-kraut (previously well washed in several 
waters), two carrots, two onions stuck with six cloves, and a garnished 
faggot of parsley ; moisten with sufficient stockpot toppings to cover 
the whole ; place a well-buttered paper on the top, and cover with a 
lid containing some live embers of charcoal ; then set these to braize 
very gently on a slow fire for about three hours. When the tongue 
is done, take it up on a dish, trim it, and put it in a small oval stew- 
pan with a little good stock, to be kept hot by the side of the stove. 
18 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

Meanwhile, remove the carrot, onion, and faggot of parsley from the 
s r i uer-kraut, and afterward press it in a napkin, to absorb all the 
grease. Then glaze the tongue, and place it in its dish, garnish it 
neatly round with the sauer-kraut and put a border of small turned 
carrots (previously boiled and glazed for the purpose) round the base ; 
pour some Poivrade sauce over the whole, and serve. 

Note. — Reindeer tongues may be dressed in the same manner as the 
foregoing ; they must, however, be soaked in cold water for four-and- 
twenty hours previously to their being dressed. 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 



1. Mutton Cutlets, sautees, 



COMPRISING 



Mutton Cutlets, plain. Mutton Cutlets, with PurSe of Endives, Ac. 
„ d la Minute. „ d la Nivernaiee, Ac. 

„ d la Maintenon. „ with New Potatoes, Ac. 

„ d la Sourguignotte. 

836. MUTTON CUTLETS, PLAIN. 

Choose a neck of mutton that has been killed at least four days, 
saw off the scrag end, and as much of the rib-bones as may be neces- 
sary in order to leave the cutlet-bones not more than three inches and 
a half long ; the spine-bones must also be removed with the saw, 
without damaging the fillet. Next, cut the neck of mutton thus 
trimmed into as many cutlets as there are bones ; detach the meat 
from the upper part of each bone, about three-quarters of an inch. 
then dip them in water and flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim away 
the sinewy part, and any superfluous fat. The cutlets must then be 
seasoned with pepper and salt, passed over with a paste-brush dipped 
in clarified butter, and nicely broiled, over or before a clear fire. 
When they are done, dish them up neatly, aud serve with plain brown 
gravy under them. 

Cutlets prepared in this way may also be served with either of the 
following sauces — Poor-man's, Piquante, Italian, Tomata, Provencale, 
Poivrade, Shalot, Gravy. 

837. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MINUTE. 

Trim the cutlets as above, then season with pepper and salt, and 
place them in a sauta-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter. 
The cutlets must be fried over a rather brisk fire, of a brown color ; 
then pour off the grease, and add a large gravy-spoonful of JEspagnolr 
sauce, a piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; set the cutlets 
again on the fire to simmer gently for two minutes, dish them up, and 
pour the sauce over them. 

The centre of this entree may be filled with mashed potatoes, mashed 
turnips, spinach, potatoes a la Maltre d 1 Hotel, &c. 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 291 

838. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MAINTENON. 

These are prepared, in the first instance, according to the former 
part of the directions for cutlets a la Minute ; season with pepper and 
salt, add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, the same quantity 
of parsley, and three shalots, also chopped. Fry the cutlets brown on 
both sides, pour off the grease, and two large spoonfuls of brown 
sauce, a very little grated nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; allow 
the whole to simmer together on the fire for five minutes, and then 
set them in the larder to cool. Meanwhile, take as many sheets of 
large-sized note-paper as there are cutlets; cut each somewhat in the 
form of a heart, and then let them be oiled. Next, place a cutlet with 
an equal proportion of the sauce in one of these papers, and with the 
fore-finger and thumb of the right hand, twist the edges of the paper 
tightly under into very close folds ; and repeat this with the remainder. 
A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets in the 
oven in a sauta-pan, to get warm through ; then, with a heated iron 
skewer, mark the papers so as to make it appear that they have been 
broiled ; dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley in the centre, 
and send some brown Italian or fine-herbs sauce in a boat. 

839. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Trim the cutlets and arrange them in circular order in a sauta-pan 
with a little clarified butter. Then, fry them quickly on a brisk fire 
to brown them on both sides, and before they are quite done, pour off 
all the grease ; add half-a-pint of red wine (Port or Claret), about 
half a pottle of prepared mushrooms, and the same quantity of small 
button onions (previously simmered in a little butter, over a slow fire 
until nearly done) ; season with a pinch of mignionette pepper, and a 
little salt, some grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar ; 
set the whole to boil on the stove for two minutes, and then add a small 
ladleful of brown sauce; allow the cutlets (covered) to simmer very 
gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, by which time they will be 
done, and the sauce sufficiently reduced. The cutlets must then be 
dished up closely, in a circle ; add half a glass of red wine and a dozen 
small quenelles to the sauce, boil the whole together for a minute, and 
garnish the centre of the entree with the mushrooms, &c, pour the 
sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 

840. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF ENDIVES. 

These are prepared and finished in the same manner as the cutlets 
a la Minute; and when they are dished up, the centre of the entree 
must be filled with a puree of endives (No. 114). 

Note. — Cutlets dressed in this way may be served with purees of 
vegetables of all sorts. 

841. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA NIVERNAISE. 

Trim and prepare the cutlets as in the the foregoing case, and when 
they Tiave been fried brown, pour off the grease, and add a garnish of 
carrots and turnips d la Nivernaise (No. 13?) ; allow the whole to 
simmer gently on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, dish up the 
cutlets, and fill the centre with vegetables, pour the sauce over the 
entree, and serve. 



292 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

842. ANOTHER METHOD. 
The cutlets, when fried, may be glazed, then dished up, and the 
garnish a la Nivernaise placed in the centre. The advantage of the 
first method is, that the cutlets partake of the flavor of the vegetables 
by simmering with them. 

843. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH NEW POTATOES. 

These are prepared in the same way as cutlets a la Minute, and when 
dished up, must be garnished with new potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel 
(No. 1183). 

Mutton cutlets, prepared in the same manner, may be garnished with 
any of the following vegetable garnishes, viz : Jardiniere, Macedoine, 
asparagus-peas, stewed peas, Brussels-sprouts, &c. 



2. Mutton Cutlets, bread-crumbed, 

COMPRISING 

Mutton Cutlets, Bread-crumbed and Broiled Mutton Cutlets, Bread-crumbed, d la Bre 
with Shalot Gravy. tonne. 

i, „ with Purie of Mush- „ „ d la Maeidoine. 

rooms. „ „ d V fndihine. 

„ „ with Cucumbers. „ „ with Purie of Chest- 

„ „ d la Milanaite. nuts. 

844. MUTTON-CUTLETS, BREAD-CRUMBED AND BROILED WITH 
SHALOT GRAVY. 
Trim the cutlets in the usual manner, and season them with pepper 
and salt ; then egg them slightly over with a paste-brush dipped in two 
yolks of eggs, beaten up on a plate for the purpose ; pass each cutlet 
through some fine bread-crumbs ; then dip them separately in some 
clarified butter, and bread-crumb them over once more ; put them into 
shape with the blade of a knife, and lay them on a gridiron, to be 
broiled over a clear fire, of a light-brown color ; then, glaze and dish 
them up, and serve them with plain or shalot gravy. These cutlets 
may also be served with any of the sauces directed to be used for plain 
broiled cutlets. 

845. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. 
Bread-crumb the cutlets as in the foregoing case ; then place them 
in a sauta-pau with a little clarified butter, fry them over a brisk fire, 
of a light color, and when done, remove them on to a napkin or a 
sheet of paper, and glaze them ; dish them up, fill the centre with a 
white puree of mushrooms (No. 122), pour some half glaze round the 
entree, and serve. 

846. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and garnish them, 
when dished up, with some scollops of cucumbers (No. 138). 

847. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MILANAISE. 

In this case, the bread-crumbs used for the cutlets must bo mixed 
with 2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese : in other respects they are to 



MUTTON CUTLETS, BREAD-CRUMBED. 293 

be bread-crumbed as before. When about to send to table, the cutlets 
should be fried of a light color, glazed, and dished up ; and the centre 
garnished with some macaroni, finished with grated Parmesan cheese, 
and a spoonful of Bechamel, or any other white sauce ; pour some 
Provengale sauce (No. 25) round the base of the entree and serve. 

848. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA BRETONNE. 

These are prepared and finished in the same way as cutlets, gar- 
nished with a puree of mushrooms, with this exception, that the centre 
must be filled with small potatoes previously cut or scooped in the 
form of olives, and fried in butter, of a yellow color ; pour some 
Bretonne sauce (No. 27) under the cutlets, and serve. 

849. MUTTON CUTLETS, A LA MACEDOINE. 

Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and when they are 
dished up, garnish the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143) ; 
pour some half glaze round the base of the entree, and serve. 

850. MUTTON CUTLETS, A L'lNDIENNE. 

Bread-crumb, fry, glaze, and dish up the cutlets; then garnish the 
centre with two dozen small quenelles of anchovies (No. 246), the 
•force-meat of which must be mixed with a little strong curry sauce 
(No. 47) ; pour some mangoe sauce under the cutlets, and serve. 

The mangoe sauce here alluded to is thus made : — Split a fine 
mangoe, and let the inside be reserved in a small stewpan ; then cut 
the outside part into narrow strips, and again mince these into shreds, 
or thin scollops, and place them in the stewpan ; add a small ladleful 
of Espaynole sauce (No. 3) ; boil the whole together for five minutes, 
when it will be fit for use. 

851. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

These, when dished up as in the foregoing cases, should be gar- 
nished with & puree of chestnuts (No. 115), and some tliin Espagnole 
poured round tliem, then serve. 

Note. — Bread-crumbed cutlets may be served with every sort of 
vegetable garnish described in this work, and with all the sauces 
directed to be served with plain cutlets. 



BRAIZED MUTTON CUTLETS, 



COMPRISING 



Mutton Cutlets, d la Sonbine. Mutton Cutlets, d la Pompadour. 
„ d la Li/onnaise. ,, d la Provencale. 

„ with Puree of Artichokes. „ d la Russe. 

d la Chipoluta. 

852. MUTTON CUTLETS, BRAIZED, A LA SOUBISE. 

Trim one or two necks of mutton (according to the size of the 
entree) in the way described for plain cutlets ; the neck must then be 



294 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

out up into thick cutlets, and placed on a dish without being further 
trimmed. Next, cut lib. of fat bacon into narrow strips, about the 
sixth of an inch square, and an inch and a half long, and with these 
the cutlets should be larded iu the following manner: — Take a middle- 
sized larding-pin, and run it half through the lean of the cutlet : then 
place a strip of bacon in the open end, and draw the larding-pin 
through, leaving the bacon iu the cutlet : repeat this, until the cutlet 
has been studded with eight strips of bacou, and proceed in the same 
manner with the remainder. Stew some of the trimmings over the 
bottom of a large stewpan, or fricandeau pan, and place the cutlets 
upon them in circular order, with the bone-end pointing to the centre; 
cover them with the remainder of the trimmings, and garnish with a 
couple of sliced carrots, a large onion, stuck with four cloves, a garnished 
faggot of parsley, and one head of celery ; season with a dozen pepper- 
corns and a blade of mace, moisten with a glass of brandy, and sufficient 
fresh broth or stock to cover the whole; place a buttered paper on this, 
put on the lid, and set the cutlets to braize very gently on a slow fire, or 
in the oven, for about one hour and a half; when they are become nearly 
tender enough, draw the pan off the fire, and allow them to get partially 
cold in their own liquor. The cutlets must then be carefully taken out, 
one at a time, with a small slice or skimmer, and placed in rows on a 
large earthen dish : when the whole are thus removed, another dish must 
be placed upon these to press them slightly, iu order to give them an 
even surface. As soon as they have become firm by getting quite 
cold, trim them neatly with a sharp knife, by paring off the surface of 
each cutlet (without waste), so as to show the bacon inserted in the 
lean ; put them into a deep sautapan with some half glaze, made with 
the broth they have been braized itfj- which must be strained, divested 
of all the grease, clarified, and afterward boiled down for the purpose. 
A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets on a 
brisk fire to warm, allow them to boil quickly for five minutes, then 
roll the sautapan about carefully, so as to glaze them all over, and dish 
them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with some Soubise sauce, o? 
puree (No. 119), pour the remainder of the half glaze round the base 
of the entree, and serve. 

853. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA LYONNAISE. 

Prepare, finish, and dish up the cutlets, as in the foregoing case ; 
then fill the centre with some Lyonnaise sauce (No. 24), and serve. 

854. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, WITH PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 

These are prepared exactly as for Soubise, and when dished up 
should be garnished with & puree of artichokes (No. 117); pour a 
little Bechamel sauce, or some half glaze round their base, and serve. 

855. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Prepare and dish up these in the same manner as the foregoing ; 
garnish them with a Ghipolala ragout (No. 190), and serve. 

856. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA POMPADOUR. 

These must be prepared, in the first instance, nearly in the same 
manner as the Soubise cutlets, except that, instead of the larding, they 




BRAIZED JHUTTON CUTLETS. 295 

must be studded with red tongue 
and black truffles ; when the cut- 
lets, after being braized, have been 
trimmed, mask each of them with 
a coating of reduced Soubise sauce 
(No. 119) ; and when this has 
become firmly set, by cooling on 
the cutlets, dip them separately 
in three whole eggs, seasoned with 
a little salt, and beaten up for the 
purpose, and afterward bread- 
crumb them ; flatten the bread-crumbs on smoothly with the blade of 
a knife, put the cutlets carefully away on a dish in a cool place until 
within twenty minutes of dinner-time. The cutlets must then be 
placed in rows, on the wire lining of a deep frying-pan ; when the 
hog's-lard is sufficiently hot for the purpose, immerse the cutlets in 
it, and fry them of a deep yellow color ; then drain them on a nap- 
kin, or a sheet of paper, in order to absorb all the grease, and dish 
them up in a close circle upon a vegetable border. Fill the centre 
with a Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), pour some half glaze round 
the base, and serve. 

857. MUTTON" CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Braize and trim the cutlets as in the foregoing case ; exeept that 
in the present instance the cutlets must be left plain, omitting alto- 
gether the larding or studding. While the cutlets are being braized, 
set about making the following preparation : — Cut three Portugal 
onions into very small dice, parboil these in water, drain them on a 
sieve, and then place them in a small stewpan, with 1 oz. of fresh butter, 
the same quantity of glaze, a little mignionette pepper and salt, and 
some grated nutmeg; set the lid on the stewpan, and place the onions 
on a very slow fire, to be thoroughly stewed, without acquiring any 
color. Next, add a gravy-spoonful of white sauce, a little grated garlic, 
on the point of a knife, and stir the whole on the fire until reduced to 
a paste ; then add the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon-juice ; 
mix well together, and use this preparation to cover the surface of 
one side only of the cutlets ; shake a rather thick coating of bread- 
crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, over this, 
and then place the cutlets in a sauta-pan containing a little half glaze. 
About twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the 
oven to be warmed through, pass the red-hot salamander over them, 
to give them a deep yellow color, mash them with thin glaze, and 
dish them up ; then pour some Provengale sauce (No. 25) under them, 
and serve. 

858. MUTTON CUTLETS BRAIZED, A LA RUSSE. 

Cut twelve" thick cutlets, as directed in the first article of this sec- 
tion ; insert eight strips of lean ham through the lean part, in a 
circular form ; prepare them for braizing in the usual way, and in 
addition to the customary complement of vegetables and seasoning, 
add two cloves of garlic and a couple of capsicums ; moisten with a 
pint of Madeira and a quart of good stock ; set the cutlets to braize 
for an hour and a half, on a very slow fire, and when nearly done 



296 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

remove them from the fire, that they may partially cool in their 
own liquor ; and then put them in press between two dishes. When 
the cutlets are cold, trim them neatly, and cover one side only with a 
rather-thick coating" of the following preparation : — Clean two large 
sticks of horse-radish, and grate them ; put this into a small stewpan 
with a small pat of butter, two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, a 
pinch of migniouette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful 
of sugar ; put the lid on, and set the whole to stew very gently for 
twenty minutes on a very slow fire ; then add two gravy-spoonfuls of 
Veloute sauce, boil the whole well together for ten minutes, mix with 
this sauce the yolks of four eggs, and a small piece of glaze, and use 
this preparation as directed above. 

Next, mask the coated side of the cutlets with a paste-brush dipped 
in some white of egg that has been beaten up, and sprinkle this surface 
over with very fine bread-crumbs, previously fried of a light color, 
with a little butter: place the cutlets in neat order iu a sauta-pan, with 
a little half glaze, and a quarter of an hour before sending to table, 
put them in the oven to be warmed through, without allowing them 
to acquire any more color ; dish them up with a very small paper 
ruffle on the bone of each cutlet, pour some half glaze (made with 
their own liquor, previously strained, divested of all grease, and after- 
ward boiled down) under them, and serve. 

Note. — Mutton cutiets, when braized according to any of the fore- 
going directions, may be served with all sorts of dressed vegetables., 
such as stewed peas, asparagus-peas, French-beans, broad-beans, 
Macedoine of vegetables, Jardiniere, braized lettuces, &c, and also 
with all kinds of purees of vegetables : for making which, see those 
articles. 



SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, 



COMPRISING 



Scollops of Mutton, with Fine-herbs. Scollops of Mutton, with Olives farcies. 

„ d la Clarenmnt. „ with Mu>hrooins and 

„ with Oysters. Truffles. 

„ d Plitdi&nne. 

859. SCOLLOFS OF MUTTON, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Bone a loin of mutton, and with a sharp knife pare off the sinewy 
skin which lies beneath the fat of the upper and under or minion fil- 
lets. Next, cut these fillets into neatly-trimmed scollops, and place 
them in a circular order in a sauta-pan with two ounces of clarified 
butter ; season with pepper and salt, a* id fry them over a brisk tire, 
until browned on both sides; then pour off, the grease, and add suffi- 
cient fine-herbs sauce (No. 14) for the entree; allow the whole to 
simmer together over the fire for three minutes, and then dish up the 
scollops, either in a pyramidal form, iu a close circle, or else in nu 
ornamental border of' potato or rice. These scollops may also be 
garnished with a border of croquettes of mutton, mushrooms, potatoes 
or rice. 



SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON. 297 

Note. — The garnishes here alluded to will serve for mutton scollops 
generally. 

860. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, A LA CLAREMONT. 

Prepare the scollops as in the foregoing case, fry them brown, pour 
off all the grease, and add enough Glaremont sauce (No. 58), for the 
entree, set the whole to simmer briskly on the fire for three minutes, 
and serve. 

861. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH OYSTERS. 

These are prepared according to the foregoing directions, and when 
the grease has been poured off, add as much brown oyster sauce 
(No. 51) as will suffice for the entree, simmer the whole together on 
the fire for three minutes, and serve. 

862. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, A L'lNDIENNE. 

Prepare the scollops in the usual manner, fry them brown, pour off 
the grease, add then some curry sauce (No. 47) and a minced mangoe; 
simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and send to 
table with some plain boiled rice served separately. 

863. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH OLIVES FARCIES* 

These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, and when 
they have been fried and the grease poured off, add two dozen olives 
farcies, two large gravy-spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), a little 
cayenne and lemon-juice, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the whole 
together, allow the scollops to simmer briskly on the stove-fire for three 
minutes, and then serve. 

864. SCOLLOPS OF MUTTON, WITH MUSHROOMS AND TRUFFLES. 

Sautez or fry the scollops brown, then pour off the fat, and add a 
small glass of Madeira, a dozen button-mushrooms, three ounces of 
truffles cut into scollops, a little cayenne, and a small piece of glaze ; 
toss the whole together over the stove-fire until mixed, and then add 
enough finished Expagnole sauce for the entree, and a little lemon- juice ; 
set the scollops to simmer on the fire for three minutes, aud serve. 



BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, 



COMPRISING 



Carbomiades of Mutton, d la Richelieu. Fillets of Mutton, larded, with Chtvrev.il 

„ „ d la Dauphinoise. sauce, or Roebuck fashion, &c. 

„ „ d la Flamande. Haricdt of Mutton, d la Nivemaise. 

865. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA RICHELIEU. 

Bone two loins of mutton, leaving the small fillets adhering thereto; 
divest them of all the inside fat, season with pepper and salt, cut off 
the loose ends and flaps, and then roll them up tight, keeping the 

* Olives farcies, or stuffed olives, are sold in small bottles, and may be procured at 
most Italian warehouses. 



298 ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

fillet in the centre ; sew each of them up closely with string and a 
small trussing-needle, and tie them round with string to preserve 
their shape. Next, strew the trimmings over the bottom of an oval 
braizing-pan, place the carbonnades upon these, garnish with two 
carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves, two heads of celery, and a 
garnished faggot of parsely ; moisten with a glass of brandy and suffi- 
cient broth or stock to cover the whole. Braize the carbonnades on a 
gentle fire for about two hours, and allow them partially to cool in 
their own liquor: they must then be put in press between two dishes, 
taking care that the sewn-up part is placed undermost. When cold, 
trim them ueatly in the form of oblong cushions, remembering that 
nearly the whole of the fat which covers them must be left on : this, 
however, must be pared smooth. Strain their liquor, remove the 
grease, clarify it in the usual way, and then boil it down to half glaze, 
half of which is to be put with the carbonnades in a covered fricandeau- 
pan, to warm them in ; the remainder being used to work the sauce 
with. Half an hour before sending to table, put the carbonnades in 
the oven to be warmed through ; then take the lid off, allow their sur- 
face to dry, and baste them frequently with their own glaze, until 
they assume a bright shiny surface ; they must then be placed side by 
side in their dish, garnished with potatoes previously cut in the 
form of olives, and fried in clarified butter ; pour a Richelieu rayout 
(No. 210) under them, and serve. 

866. BEAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA DAUPHINOISE. 

Bone two loins of mutton, remove all the inside fat and the small 
fillets ; season with pepper and salt, and spread some highly-seasoned 
veal force-meat on the inside; they must then be rolled, sewn up, 
and afterward corded round with string to make them retain their 
shape. Braize the carbonnades in the same way as the foregoing, and 
when done, put them in press, and cut each into six pieces in the form 
of a pointed scollop ; trim these neatly, put them on an earthen dish, 
and then cover them over with a thin coating of d'Uxelles sauce 
(No. 16). Next remove them to a cold place that the sauce may the 
sooner become firmly set ; then dip each separately in some beaten 
egg, and bread-crumb them. About twenty minutes before sending 
to table, place the carbonnades upon the wire-lining of a frying-pan, 
immerse them in some clean hogs'-lard made quite hot for the purpose, 
and fry them of a light-browu color; drain them upon a napkin, 
and dish them up in a circular form, with the pointed ends placed 
toward the centre, so as to make them fit in with each other. Fill 
the centre with a group of small tomatas " au gratin" (No. 1160), .and 
place also a border of these round the base; pour some Pructn^ate 
(No. 25), under the carbonnades, and serve. 

867. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF MUTTON, A LA FLAMAflDE. 

Prepare these as in the first case ; and when they are become 
sufficiently cold, cut each into six pieces in the form of pointed scol- 
lops, trim them smoothly and neatly, and then place them in a deep 
sauta-pan with some half glaze made from their own liquor. Half an 
hour before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed and 
glazed, as before directed ; dish them up as in the preceding case, (ill 
the centre with some prepared Brussels sprouts (No. 156), over the 



HARICOT OF MUTTON". 299 

part where the carbonnades join to each other ; place a crescent of 
turnip round the base of the sprouts, add a neat border of glazed 
carrots, and garnish the base of the entree with & Jardiniere (No. 144) ; 
pour some bright thin Espagnole sauce under the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Carbonnades, prepared and trimmed as directed in Nos. 865 
and 867, may also be served with every sort of vegetable garnish, or 
puree of vegetables, described in tins work. 

868. FILLETS OF MUTTON LARDED, WITH CHEVREUIL SAUCE, 
OR ROEBUCK FASHION. 

Remove the fillets from two loins of mutton, pare off all the sinewy 
skin that lies beneath the fat, and divide each fillet, lengthwise, into 
four, these, together with the smaller fillets thus trimmed also, will 
make up ten ; trim these and lard them closely with strips of fat bacon, 
in the usual way. The fillets must then be steeped in a cold marinade 
(No. 2o4) for about forty-eight hours; after which, drain them upon 
a napkin to absorb any unnecessary moisture. Next, place the fillets 
in a sautapan thickly spread with butter, and turn them round in a 
semicircular form ; moisten with a little mirepoix (No. 236), or a glass 
of Sherry ; cover them with a buttered paper and set them in the oven 
to simmer for about twenty minutes ; they must then be glazed, trimmed 
neatly round the ends, and dished up in a close circle, overlapping each 
other ; fill the centre with potatoes cut in the form of olives, and fried 
in butter ; pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29) under the fillets, and 
serve. 

Note. — Fillets of mutton prepared as the foregoing, may also be 
garnished with quenelles of potatoes, with Ghevreuil sauce (No. 69), 
Victoria sweet sauce, Tomata, Piquante, Gherkins, or Provengale sauce. 

869. HARICOT OF MUTTON, A LA NIVERNAISE. 

Cut a neck of mutton into un-trimmed cutlets, pare off any super- 
fluous fat, put them into a large stewpan with four ounces of butter, 
and fry them over a brisk fire until they become brown ; then pour off 
the greater portion of grease, and shake in a good handful of flour, 
stir the whole over the fire for about five minutes, moisten with three 
pints of broth, and stir the haricot on the fire till it boils. Meanwhile, 
prepare some carrots and turnips, cut in the form of small pears, olives, 
half-moons, or any other fancy shape, and throw these into the haricot ; 
a dozen small onions may also be added ; season with a garnished 
faggot of parsley, and some mignionette pepper. Keep the haricot 
gently boiling by the side of the fire for about one hour and a half; 
skim off all the grease, remove the faggot of parsley, place the cutlets 
and vegetables in another stewpan, and after having boiled the sauce 
down (if necessary), pass it through a tammy upon the cutlets. When 
about to send to table, warm the haricot, dish the outlets in the usual 
manner, fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over all, and 
serve. 

Note. — Breasts of mutton with the superfluous fat removed, and cut 
into small square pieces, make a very good haricot, or stew. 

The foregoing may be varied by substituting green-peas, young 
carrots, turnips, or new potatoes for the vegetables directed to be used. 



300 



SHEEP'S-TONGUES, 

COMPRISING 

Sheep's-tongues A I'Ecarlate, with Spinach, &c. Sheep's-tongues, d la Napolitaine. 

} , <i la Maintenon. „ with Gherkin sauce. 

Sheep's-tongues should first be pickled in the manner directed for 
briskets of beef, &c. ; for the preparation of which, see No. 564. 

870. sheep's-tongues, a l'ecarlate, with spinach. 

From six to a dozen tongues suffice for an entree ; these must be 
braized in some wine mirepoix (No. 236), or common broth, garnished 
with the usual complement of vegetables, &c. : after about three 
quarters of an hour's gentle boiling, they will be done : they must then 
be placed upon a dish, on their sides, and another dish with a weight 
in it should be laid upon them to press them evenly. When the 
tongues are cold, trim them neatly, and place them in a deep sautapnn 
with some half glaze, and about twenty minutes before sending to table, 
put them in the oven, to be warmed through, covered with a circular 
piece of buttered paper, to prevent their being dried up ; roll them in 
their glaze, dish them up in the same manner as cutlets, fill the centre 
with spinach (No. 112), mix a spoonful ef Espagnole with the re- 
mainder of their glaze, pour it round the tongues, and serve. 

871. sheep's-tongues, a la maintenon. 

These must first be braized, and when done, put in press between 
two dishes, and afterwards neatly trimmed. The tongues must then 
be finished in every respect the same as mutton cutlets a la Maintenon 
(No. 838). 

872. sheep's-tongues, a la napolitaine. 

Braize and trim the tongues as above, cover them all over with a 
thin coating of d'Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has become 
firmly set by cooling, dip each tongue in some beaten eg^, and roll it 
in bread-crumbs ; flatten them smoothly with the blade of a knife, and 
then place them on a dish in the larder, until within about twenty 
minutes of dinner-time. The tongues must then be fried of a light- 
brown color, in clean hog's-lard made hot for the purpose, then 
drained upon a napkin, and dished up in the form of a close circle, the 
centre of which must be filled with macaroni dressed with cheese and 
a little Bechamel sauce ; pour some Napolitaine sauce (No. 63), under 
them, and serve. 

873. sheep's-tongues, with gherkin sauce. 

Prepare, finish, and dish up the tongues according to the directions 
in the first case, pour some gherkin sauce (No. 19) in the centre of 
the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Sheep's-tongues prepared after the foregoing directions, 
may be served with every kind of brown sauce or ragout ; and also 
with any of the vegetable garnishes or purees described in this work. 



301 



SHEEP'S-HEAD AND KIDNEYS, 

COMPRISING 

Sheep's Kidneys, a la Brochette. Sheep's Kidneys, with Fine-herbs. 

„ bread-crumbed, a I'Epicu- ,, a la Glaremont. 

rienne. Sheep's Head, d la Gallimaufre. 

874. STIEEP'tS-KIDXEYS, A LA BROCHETTE. 

Si. it the kidneys lengthwise, without cutting through the sinew ; 
remove the thin skin which covers them, and place them in a small 
dish ; season with pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of salad oil, 
and allow them to steep in their seasoning until broiled. They must 
then be run on a small silver or any other kind of skewer (two or three 
on each), and placed upon a gridiron over a clear (ire to be broiled, 
with the open side downwards ; when done brown they must be turned 
up, as, from the heat of the fire, their sides become contracted, which 
causes them to form a sort of cup to hold the gravy in when the kid- 
neys are done : care must be taken not to spill this gravy in dishing 
them up : fill each with a small piece of cold 31ait?*e-d' Hotel butter 
( Xo. 44), pour a little half glaze under them, and send to table quite 
hot. 

Broiled kidneys may also be served with anchovy butter, plain gravy, 
or a pat of fresh butter and a spoonful of Harvey sauce. 

875. SIIEEP'S-KIDXEYS, BREAD-CRUMBED, A l'EPICURIEXXE. 

Split the kidneys as before directed, season them with pepper and 
salt, dip them in clarified butter, and roll them in fresh-made bread- 
crumbs ; place them on the skewers, and broil them on both sides : 
•Alien done, dish them up with a small piece of epicurean butter (Xo. 
18(5) in each, the juice of a lemon and a little half glaze under them, 
and serve quite hot. 

876. SUKKI'V-KIDXEYS, WITH FIXE-IIERBS. 

Prepare some fine-herbs sauce (Xo. 14), slit the kidneys length- 
wise quite through ; remove the skin, and then slice them into thin 
scollops. Place a sauta or frying pan, with two ounces of butter in it, 
on a brisk fire ; fry the kidneys brown, then add a glass of Sherry or 
Madeira; let this boil till reduced, then pour in the sauce prepared 
fir the purpose ; allow the whole to simmer together on the stove for 
three minutes; dish them up with some pastry Jlcuruns round them, 
and serve. 

877. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Prepare the kidneys in thin scollops, season witn pepper and salt, 
and fry them brown in a little butter ; then throw in a table-spoonful 
of chopped mushrooms, the same of parsley, and two shalots, also chop- 
ped ; after allowing the whole to fry a few minutes longer, shake in a 
table-spoonful of flour, mix together, and moisten with a glass of 
sherry ; let this boil for two minutes, then add a large spoonful of 
brotfn gravy or broth ; allow the whole to simmer on the fire for five 
minutes, add a little lemon-juice, and serve. 



302 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

878. SHEEP'S-KIDNEYS, A LA CLAREMONT. 

Scollop and fry the kidneys as directed for those dressed with fine- 
herbs ; and when they are browned, add some Claremont sauce (No. 
58) ; simmer the whole together for three minutes, and serve with a 
border of potato croquettes. 

879. sheep's-head, a la gallimaufre. 

Procure the head and pluck of a fresh-killed sheep, split the head 
into halves, remove the brains, steep the whole in water, and wash 
them thoroughly. Next, place the head, heart, and liver in a stewpan, 
with carrot, onion, garnished faggot of parsley, and green onions, two 
blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a tea-spoonful of pepper-corns ; 
moisten with a glass of brandy, and sufficient broth or water — if the 
latter be used, salt must be added ; cover the whole with buttered 
paper and put the lid on, then set the stewpan on a gentle fire to braize 
for about one hour and a half. When the head, &c, are done, take 
them up carefully on a dish, strain the broth, and after having divested 
it of all grease, boil down one-half to thin glaze, and with the remain- 
der make some brown sauce. The pieces of the head should be trim- 
med, seasoned with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and two shalots, 
then rubbed over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, well-covered 
with bread-crumbs, and placed on a dish in the larder. The liver and 
heart must be minced up fine, and when the sauce has been reduced to 
the usual consistency, add it to the mince, together with a spoonful of 
fine-herbs and a little lemon-juice. When about to send to table, 
make the mince quite hot, and turn it out on its dish ; place the pieces 
of the head — previously broiled on both sides, of a bright yellow color, 
and afterward nicely glazed— upon ^the mince, pour some of the thin 
glaze round the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Sheep's or lamb's heads, when braized and bread-crumbed, 
may also be served with any kind of sharp sauce. 



ENTREES OF YEAL, 

COMPRISING 

Fricandeau, with PurSe of Green-peas. . Veal Cutlets, d la Dreux. 

„ d la MacSdoine, Ac. „ d la Pirigord. 

Noix of Veal, d la Rigence. „ d la Zingara. 

„ d la Toulonte. ,, d la Duchesne. 

Gvenadint of Veal, with Spinach, Ac. „ in Papillotes. 

Tendons of Veal, with stewed Peas. Blanquette of Veal, with Mushrooms, Ac. 

„ d la Villeroi, with Purie Croquettes of Veal. 

of Celery. Veal and Ham Scollops, with Italian sauce. 

Veal Kernels, with Parte of Artichokes. Scotch Scollops. 

„ d la Talleyrand. Minced Veal, and Poached Ecrgs. 

Veal Cutlets, d la Financiire. ,, d la Portuguaise. 

880. FRICANDEAU, WITH PUREE OF GREEN PEAS. 

The fricandeau piece consists of that part of the leg of Teal irenemlly 
called the cushion, and is found on the inner side of the leg, lying im- 



NOIX OF VEAL. 303 

mediately under the udder or fatty covering. This part must be 
carefully cut out, by making a semicircular incision from one end 
round to the other, following the evident natural indication. Flatten 
the piece of veal slightly with a cutlet-bat, and then pare off the 
upper and under sinewy covering, leaving the surface perfectly smooth. 
The fricandeau must then be closely larded with the strips of fat bacon 
in the usual manner. Next, strew the bottom of a fricandeau pan 
with sliced carrot, onion and celery, and a well-garnished faggot of 
parsley and green onions ; cover these over with thin layers of fat 
bacon, and then place the fricandeau on the top of all ; moisten with 
good stock or broth of sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, 
but not to cover it under ; place a round of paper well buttered on 
the top, and cover with the lid. The fricandeau should be allowed 
to braize very gently for about three hours, either in the oven or upon 
a very slow stove-fire, during which time it must be frequently basted 
with its own liquor ; when nearly done, the paper and the lid must be 
altogether removed, in order to enable the larding to dry, and it should 
be frequently basted with its own glaze, to give it a bright shiny appear- 
ance. Care must be taken to prevent the fricandeau from acquiring 
too much color during the latter part of the process. Put some puree 
of green peas (No. 106) in the centre of the dish, and with two forks 
carefully lift up the fricandeau, and place it upon the puree; pour a 
little half glaze round the base, and serve. 

Note. — Fricandeaux prepared as above may also be served with every 
kind of vegetable puree or garnish described in this work. 

881. FRICANDEAU, A LA MACEDOINE. 
This must be trimmed and larded as in the foregoing case ; then 
an incision of about three inches in length should be cut through its 
entire thickness, and a round or oval tin-cutter placed therein to dis- 
tend the hollow part, so as to give it the appearance of a circle. 
Prepare and braize the fricandeau as before, and when done place it 
in its dish upon a base of quenelle force-meat; fill the centre of the 
fricandeau with a well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), 
round which place a neatly-arranged border of small spring turnips 
split into halves, turned in the shape of deep cuts, and filled with green 
peas: ornament the base of the fricandeau with a border of young 
spring carrots, nicely glazed : pour some thin Espagnole round the 
entree, and serve. 

882. NOIX* OF VEAL, A LA REGENCE. 
In this case the udder must be left adhering to the noix, or cushion 
of veal ; it must be neatly trimmed, and the udder made to represent 
the form of a half-moon, with the lean part (within the inner semi- 
circle) smoothly pared, and larded in the same manner as & fricandeau. 
This should then be placed in an oval stewpan upon a bed of vege- 
tables, covered with layers of fat bacon, moistened with half a pint of 
Sherry or Madeira, and about a pint of good stock. The udder must 
be covered with layers of fat bacon, to preserve it white ; then place 
a thickly-buttered paper over all, and cover with the lid. The noix 
must be very gently braized on a slow-fire, or in the oven, and fre- 

* Noix is the French technical term for that part of a leg of veal generally used for 
fricandeaux ; the English term for which is cushion, or mouse-piece. ~ 



304 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

quently basted with its own liquor, — care being taken that the larding 
is nicely glazed ; when nearly done the bacon must be removed from 
the udder, and the noix placed in its dish ; garnish it round with a 
Financi&re ragout (No. 188), incorporated with the glaze from the noix, 
stick three ornamental silver skewers, previously garnished with a 
large truffle, cock's-comb, and a eray-fish, in the udder ; glaze the 
larding, and serve. 

883. NOIX OF VEAL, A LA TOULOUSE. 

Prepare this as in the foregoing case, and when dished up, garnish 
with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 87), using Allemande sauce for the 
purpose ; stick in three ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a 
large cock's-comb, a truffle, and a decorated quenelle ; keep the udder 
white, glaze the larding and serve. 

Note. — This entree may also be served with a garnish of prepared 
vegetables a la Macedoine (No. 143). 

884. GRENADINS OF VEAL, WITH SPINACH, ETC. 

Trim a fricandeau piece of white veal, and cut this into eight or 
ten fillets, beginning at the thick end ; these must be flattened with a 
cutlet-bat dipped in water, and trimmed somewhat in the shape of 
fillets of fowl. They should then be closely larded with fat bacon, 
placed in neat order in a deep sauta or fricandeau pan, upon a bed of 
sliced vegetables covered over with layers of fat bacon ; moisten with 
sufficient good stock, just to reach up to the larding, place the but- 
tered paper, and cover with the lid. The grenadins will require to be 
braized for about one hour and a quarter, during which time they must 
be frequently basted; when nearly "rJone, remove the paper and glaze 
them. Next, drain them on a napkin, trim them, and dish them on a 
foundation of force-meat, in close order; fill the centre with some pwee 
of spinach, pour some half glaze round the base of the entree (made 
with the liquor from the grenadins), and serve. 

Note. — Grenadins may also be garnished with all kinds of ragouts 
and vegetable garnishes directed to be served with fricandeaux. 

885. TENDONS OF VEAL, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Tendons of veal consist of that part which lies along the breast 
end of the ribs, forming an opaque gristly substance, which in the ox 
becomes bone. To extract these, an incision must be made right 
down the extreme edge of the breast of veal, without damaging the 
tendons, which should then be laid quite bare with the knife up to 
the commencement of the ribs, where they must be divided from them. 
The bony part, if any remain, must be pared away, and the tendons 
put to steep in water for an hour or so. They must then be tied up 
securely with string, and put to boil in the stockpot for about four 
hburs ; or else, if there be no stockpot boiling at the time, place thorn 
in a stewpan, with the usual complement of vegetables and seasoning, 
covered over with a buttered paper ; moisten with three quarts of 
fresh broth or water, set them to braize on a slow fire, for about four 
hours, and when done, put them in press between two dishes, until 
they are cold. The tendons must then be cut slantwise, into rather 



ENTREES OF VEAL. 305 

large scollops, measuring about two inches in diameter, and when 
neatly trimmed, should be placed in a sauta-pan with some half glaze 
to warm them in. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the 
tendons in the oven, or on the stove-fire, to simmer for ten minutes ; 
then allow them to boil briskly, so as to reduce the glaze, in which 
they must be gently rolled, to make it adhere to them ; dish them up 
in a close circle upon a base of quenelle force-meat, fill the centre with 
stewed peas, pour a little thin Ezpagnole sauce into the sauta-pan, to 
be mixed with the glaze by boiling, use this to put round the entree, 
and serve. 

Note. — Tendons of veal prepared as above, may also be served with 
every other kind of dressed vegetable garnishes, as well as with all 
sorts of purees of vegetables ; for making which, see those articles. 

886. TEXDOXS OF VEAL, A LA VILLEItOI, WITH PUREE OF 

CELERY. 

Prepare, braize, and trim the tendons, as directed in the foregoing 
ease; put them on a large earthen dish, and mask them over with a 
coating of stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce ; when this has become 
firmly set upon the tendons, by cooling, let them lie dipped in beaten 
es'g, and bread-crumbed, and afterward fried of a light color in clean 
hog's lard, made quite hot for the purpose. Let them be dished up 
in a close circle, overlapping each other, fill the centre with some 
puree of celery (No. 110), pour some half glaze, or a little Supreme or 
Bechamel sauce round the entree, and send to table. 

Note. — Tendons prepared in this manner may also be garnished as 
the former. 

887. TEAL KERNELS, WTTH PUREE OF ARTICHOKES. 

Veal kernels are an oblong fatty substance, containing a kind of 
small kidney of great delicacy, lying to the left of the blade-bone of 
the shoulder; these must be steeped in water for about half an hour, 
then parboiled for five minutes, immersed in cold water, drained upon 
a napkin, and put in press between two dishes. From ten to sixteen 
kernels suffice for an entree. The kernels must be trimmed without 
waste, and placed in a deep circular fricandeau pan, upon thin layers 
of white veal ; then moisten with some white wine mirepoix (No. 236), 
and set them on a slow fire to braize very gently for about three-quar- 
ters of an hour, bearing in mind that the heat of the stove is to be so 
regulated as to cause their liquor to be reduced to one half its original 
quantity. The kernels must then be carefully removed into a sauta- 
pan, and their half glaze, when strained and divested of all grease, 
poured upon them. Place them on a brisk fire, and let them boil 
quickly till their moisture is reduced to a glaze, roll them gently in 
this, causing as much of it as possible to adhere to them, to give them 
a bright appearance. Then dish them up in a close circle upon a base 
of force-meat of veal, with a crouton of fried bread of the same shape 
between each kernel ; fill the centre with some puree of arttichokes 
(No. lH), pour some half glaze round the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Veal kernels, prepared and dished up in this manner, may be 
garnished with all kinds of dressed vegetables and purees. 
19 



306 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

887. VEAL KERNELS, A LA DUCHESSE. 

When the kernels have been braized, pressed, and trimmed, as 
directed in the foregoing part of the preceding article, let them be 
smoothly masked over with some well-rednced AUemande sauce ; and 
after the sance has been allowed sufficient time to become firm by 
cooling, bread-crumb the kernels, fry them in properly-heated frying- 
fat, of a light color, and, having dished them up as directed in the 
preceding case, let the entree be garnished and sauced similarly. 



VEAL KERNELS, A LA TALLEYRAND. 

Parboil aud trim the kernels, then place them in a fricandeau pan 
between thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some wine mirepoix 
(No. 236), and braize them gently for three-quarters of an hour; when 
done, put them on an earthen dish to cool, and mask each of them 
all over with a coating of stiffly-reduced AUemande sauce, mixed with 
1 oz. of truffles, chopped fine ; when the sauce has become firmly set, 
as it cools, dip each in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them care- 
fully. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry them of a 
bright-yellow color, with clarified butter, in a deep sauta-pan ; drain 
them upon a napkin, dish them up in a circle, garnish the centre with 
a ragout composed of small scollops of fat livers, truffles, mushrooms 
and cock's kernels, the whole of which must be tossed in good AUe- 
mande sauce ; pour some thin Espagnole sauce (finished with some of 
the mirepoix) under the kernels, and serve. 

889. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Procure a neck of very white veaT, saw off the chine-bone and the 
upper end of the ribs, leaving the cutlet-bones about three inches and 
a half long ; then, divide it into cutlets ; flatten these with a bat dipped 
in water, trim them neatly and lard the lean of the cutlets closely with 
bacon, in the usual way. Next, prepare the cutlets for braizing in 
the same manner as directed for a fricandeau ; about oue hour and a 
quarter will suffice to braize them, when they must be nicely glazed, 
dished up with the larded part of the cutlet uppermost, and the centre 
of the entree filled with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188) ; pour 
some of the sauce round the base of the cutlets, and serve. 

890. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA DREUX. 
These should be cut rather thicker than usual, but neither flat- 
tened nor trimmed ; they must be interlarded or studded through the 
lean part with about a dozen oblong pieces of red tongue, or ham, and 
black truffles about an inch long and a quarter of an inch in depth 
and thickness ; these must be placed in a braiziug-pan, upon a bed of 
sliced vegetables covered with thin layers of fat bacon, some mace, 
four cloves, twelve pepper-corns, and a garnished faggot of parsley and 
green onions in the centre, and the whole again covered with layers 
of bacon ; moisten with two glasses of Sherry and as much good stock 
as will suffice to cover the surface of the cutlets, and set them to 
braize on a slow fire for about one hour and a half, with the lid on ; 
when done, allow them partially to cool in their own liquor. Then 
put them in press between two dishes, and when cold, let them 
be trimmed smooth, so as to show the truffle and tongue-studding. 



ENTREES OF VEAL. 307 

They should next be placed in a sautapan with some half glaze, made 
from their own liquor, and put away in the larder. Twenty minutes 
before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to be warmed 
through, then place them on the stove-fire to glaze ; dish them up in 
a close circle, fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), 
pour, some thin Espagnole sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

891. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA PERIGORD. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, then dip them 
in some whipped white of eggs, and afterward in some black truffles 
chopped very fine ; flatten this on securely with the blade of a knife, 
and place them in clarified butter in a sautapan, in circular order. 
Twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a gentle 
fire, on both sides, until done through — taking care that the chopped 
truffles do not burn ; when done, drain them on a piece of paper, 
glaze, and dish them up, fill the centre with scollops of red tongue 
and truffles ; pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23), and serve. 

892. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA ZINGARA. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place 
them in a sautapan with some clarified butter. In another sautapan 
prepare a similar number of thin oval scollops of raw ham. When 
about to send to table, fry the cutlets and the ham, glaze both, and 
dish them up — alternately placing a cutlet and a piece of ham ; fill 
the centre with scolloped mushrooms and truffles, pour some thin 
Espagnole sauce into the sautapan the cutlets have been fried in, to 
this add a little cayenne and lemon-juice ; simmer these together on 
the fire, pour the sauce over the cutlets and serve. 

893. VEAL CUTLETS, A LA DUCHESSE. 

Prepare these in the same way as the cutlets, a la Dreux ; and 
when they have been trimmed, mask them all over with a coating of 
Atelet sauce (No. 36) and bread-crumb them as for a Villeroi. Fry 
the cutlets of a bright-yellow color in clarified butter, dish them up, 
and fill the centre with circular scollops of red tongue and button- 
mushrooms tossed in a little thick Allemande sauce ; pour some Tomata 
sauce (No. 22) round the base of the entree, and serve. 

894. VEAL CUTLETS, IN" PAPILLOTES. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and fry them 
in a little clarified butter ; when they are nearly done, add some 
mushrooms, parsley, and three shalots, the whole chopped fine ; fry 
these together over the fire for five minutes, and then add two gravy- 
spoonfuls of Veloute, or any other white sauce, a little nutmeg, lemon- 
juice, and a small piece of glaze ; simmer the whole together over a 
geutle fire for a few minutes, then add a leason of four yolks of eggs, 
toss the cutlets about to mix the leason in with the sauce, and let them 
become cool. In other respects, finish in the same way as directed for 
mutton cutlets, a la Maintenon (No. 838). 

895. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

The veal for this purpose must first be roasted, and when cold, cut 
into round thin scollops about an inch in diameter ; to these add 



308 ENTREES OF VEAL. 

some button-mushrooms also cut into scollops, and enough Allemande 
sauce (No. 7) for the entree. Just before sending it to table, warm 
the blanquette, and dish it up with a border of croquettes of veal, of 
rice or potatoes. This dish may be varied by substituting scollops of 
truffles, cucumbers, or red tongue, for the mushrooms. 

896. CROQUETTES OF VEAL. 

Cut about 1 lb. of roasted veal into very small dice, or mince it 
into very fine shreds ; add this to about half its quantity of mush- 
rooms, truffles or red tongue, cut up in the same manner. Xext, 
reduce by boiling enousrh Allemande, Bechamel, Veloute or Supreme 
sauce for the entree ; and when it has become rather stiff, throw in the 
mince ; season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg ; stir the whole 
well together, and then spread the preparation on a dish, about an 
inch thick ; smooth it over with the blade of a knife, cover with 
buttered paper, and put it into the larder to cool. It must then be 
divided into about two dozen pieces, and each of these rolled in bread- 
crumbs in the form of a common-sized cork or a round ball, or in the 
shape of a pear, and after being dipped in some beaten egs;, must 
again be rolled in bread-crumbs, and placed on an earthen dish till 
within twenty minutes of dinner time ; the croquettes must now be 
fried in clean hog's-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and when 
done, drained upon a napkin to absorb all the grease, then dished up 
with fried parsley, and served immediately. 

Note. — When croquettes are shaped in the form of pears, some 
parsley stalks of equal lengths should be stuck in at the pointed ends, 
before they are fried, to imitate the stalk of a pear. 

897. VEAL AND HAM SCOLLOPS, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Procure about 1 lb. of v#al, either from the leg, the chump-end of 
the loin, or belt end of the neck ; cut this into round or oval scollops, 
season with pepper and salt, and place them in a sautapan with some 
clarified butter : an equal number of similarly-cut scollops of ham 
may either be put with these, or separately. Fry the veal and ham 
scollops nicely brown, pour off the grease, add the brown Italian sauce 
(Xo. 12) and some button-mushrooms; simmer the whole together for 
three minutes, dish them up, alternately placing a scollop of veal with 
the ham ; fill the centre with the mushrooms, pour the sauce round the 
entree, and serve. 

898. SCOTCH SCOLLOPS. 

Trim the scollops as in the foregoing case, season with parsley and 
shalots chopped fine, pepper and salt ; place the scollops after they 
have been bread-crumbed in the usual way, in a sautapan with a little 
clarified butter : mark the scollops of ham separately ; prepare also 
two dozen small round quenelles with some highly seasoned veal force- 
meat. When about to send to table, fry the scollops of veal and ham 
of a light color, glaze them, and dish them alternately in a close 
circle — first placing a scollop of veal and then one of ham ; fill the 
centre with the quenelles (previously poached), pour a little thickened 
brown gravy with a little glaze in it, or some well-finished Espagnole 
sauce, round the entree, and serve. 



HEART SWEETBREADS. 309 

• 

899. MINCED VEAL, AND POACHED EGGS. 

Pare off the outside part of 1 lb. of veal, and then let it be chopped 
very fine, or cut it into thin shreds. Put about half a pint of Bechamel 
sauce (No. 5) into a stewpan and reduce it by boiling, until it becomes 
rather thick, then add the minced veal, and a little cream ; season with 
pepper and salt, and a very little nutmeg ; stir the whole well together 
over the fire until warm, and dish it up in a conical form ; place six 
poached eggs round it with a circular scollop of glazed red tongue or 
ham between each egg ; pour a little Bechamel sauce (No. 5) round 
the base of the entree, and serve. 

900. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Put a pat of butter into a stewpan on the fire, and when melted, 
throw in a table-spoonful of flour; stir this with a wooden spoon over 
the fire for two minutes; then gradually mix in half a pint of broth, 
put the sauce on the fire, stirring it until reduced to the thickness of 
Bechamel sauce ; then add the minced veal, a gill of cream, a small 
piece of glaze, and a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; stir this on the 
fire for three minutes, and serve as in the foregoing case. 

Note. — Mushrooms, truffles, tongue, or ham, either minced or cut 
into shreds, may be added to the veal, in either of the two foregoing 
cases. 

901. MINCED VEAL, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 

See the directions for dressing beef in this method (No. 810). 



HEART SWEETBREADS,* 



COHPKISING 



Sweetbreads, larded, with Stewed Peas, Ac. Sweetbreads, larded, d la St. Cloud. 
„ „ & la Monarque. „ „ d la Parisieune. 

„ „ d la Conti. 

902. SWEETBREADS LARDED, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Three heart sweetbreads generally suffice for a dish. They must 
be procured quite fresh, otherwise they are unfit for table, and should 
be steeped in water for several hours, and the water frequently 
changed ; the sweetbreads are then to be scalded in boiling water for 
about three minutes, and immersed in cold water for half an hour; after 
which they must be drained upon a napkin, trimmed free from any 
sinewy fat, and put between two dishes to be slightly pressed flat, and 
then closely larded with strips of bacon in the usual manner. Tlie 
sweetbreads must next be placed in a deep sauta-pan on abed of thinly- 
sliced carrot, celery, and onions, with a garnished faggot of parsley and 

* Sweetbreads, or Pancreas, are the two white glands found in calves; the one being 
placed immediately below the throat, and the other, of a rounder form, lying nearer the 
heart; hence they are designated heart and throat sweetbreads : the former is the most 
delicate, and when in perfection, is white and fat ; the latter is of an elongated form, 
not so fat as the other, and is only used for secondary purposes. 



310 HEART SWEETBREADS. 

green onions placed in the centre, and covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon. Moisten with about a pint of good stock, place a round of but- 
tered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and after having put the 
sweetbreads to boil on the stove-fire, remove them to the oven or on a 
moderate fire (in the latter case live embers of charcoal must be placed 
on the lid), and allow them to braize rather briskly for about twenty 
minutes — frequently basting them with their own liquor. When done, 
remove the lid and paper covering, and set them again in the oven, to 
dry the surface of the larding; glaze them nicely, and dish them up on 
some stewed peas (No. 1115). 

Sweetbreads, prepared in this way, may also be served with dressed 
asparagus peas, French-beans, scollops of cucumbers, braized lettuces, 
celery, Macedoine of vegetables, Jardiniere, and also with every kind 
of vegetable puree described in this work. 

To raise the sweetbreads above the garnish or sauce served with them, 
it is necessary to place as many foundations as there are sweetbreads in 
the dish ; these may be made, either by boiling some rice in broth until 
it becomes quite soft, then working it into a paste ; after this has been 
spread on a dish about an inch thick, a circular tin-cutter must be used 
to stamp it out. They may also be prepared from veal force-meat, or 
even fried croutons of bread will serve the purpose. 

903. SWEETBREADS, A LA MONARQUE. 

These must be larded and braized as the foregoing ; then cut a kind 
of pillar out of a piece of stale bread, of angular shape, about three 
inches high, each side of the angle measuring about two inches ; this 
should be fried in hog's lard, of a bright-yellow color, and stuck in a 
perpendicular position in the centre of the dish with a little paste made 
of flour and egg. The sweetbreads "are to be so arranged as to have 
one end resting up against this croustade, and between each a decor- 
ated minion fillet of fowl is to be placed ; crown the top with a row 
of white double cocks'-combs, stick in an ornamental silver skewer 
garnished with a large cocks'-comb, a mushroom, a large crayfish, and 
a truffle; pour a Financiere ragout (No. 188) round the entree, and 
serve. 

904. SWEETBREADS, A LA CONTI. 

After the sweetbreads have been scalded and pressed flat, make 
about a dozen incisions round the sides of their upper surface with the 
point of a small knife, in a slanting direction, to the depth of half an 
inch ; in these incisions insert circular scollops of black truffle, and 
repeat this so as to form an inner circle in the same manner. Next, 
prepare the sweetbreads for braizing, placing them upon a bed of thinly- 
sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of bacon, layers 
of the same being placed also over the sweetbreads ; moisten with good 
white stock, and braize the sweetbreads about twenty minutes. When 
the sweetbreads are done, drain them on a napkin, and glaze them 
lightly, without drying the glaze on ; when about to dish them up, 
garnish with a ragout composed of small quenelles of fowl, button 
mushrooms, cocks'-combs, and kernels, crown the whole with a large 
truffle, place a crayfish between each sweetbread, pour some Perigueux 
sauce (No. 23) under the entree, and serve. 

Note. — The sweetbreads may be varied by scolloping, or vontixcr, 



THROAT SWEETBREADS. 311 

one-half with truffle, and the remainder with red tongue, or mixing the 
latter with green gherkins. 

905. SWEETBREADS, A LA ST. CLOUD. 

These should be scalded and pressed in the usual way, and studded 
over in neat circular order with pieces of black truffle or red tongue, 
cut out in the form of large hob-nails ; then make twelve openings 
with a blunt wooden skewer in each sweetbread, and introduce in these 
the nail-like pieces of tongue perpendicularly. Braize them according 
to the directions for the foregoing, and when done, dish them up with 
a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187) ; garnish the entree round the base 
with a border of small quenelles decorated with truffles, and place a 
group of trimmed crayfish-tails, previously tossed iu a little glaze, 
colored with lobster-coral ; slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. 

906. SWEETBREADS, A LA PARISIENNE. 

After the sweetbreads have been scalded and pressed, let them be 
larded in the following manner : one with shreds of very black truffles, 
another with shreds of the tip of a red tongue, and the third with some 
green stalks of parsley ; braize them between layers of fat bacon, and 
moisten with a wine mirepoix (No. 236). When they are done, dish 
them up against a triangular croustade, garnished with a well-arranged 
Parisian ragout (No. 203) ; stick an ornamental silver skewer, gar- 
nished with a double comb, a large truffle and a decorated quenelle, iu 
the centre of the croustade, and round the base of the skewer, stud a 
border of crayfish-tails, slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. 

Note. — Sweetbreads may also be served roasted for persons of delicate 
health, being very nutritious, and easy of digestion. In such cases they 
may be served with a little plain gravy, Supreme or brown sauce. 



THROAT SWEETBREADS, 



COMPRISING 



Epigramme of Sweetbreads. Scollops of Sweetbreads d la Marechale. 
Scollops of Sweetbreads, with Shalot Gravy. „ „ d la Soubise. 

„ „ d la Dauphine. „ „ d la Poulette. 

„ „ d la d' Uxellee. Croquettes of Sweetbreads. 

907. EPIGRAMME OF SWEETBREADS. 

Procure four throat sweetbreads, and steep them in water for several 
hours, changing the water frequently, until they are freed from redness : 
they must theu be scalded for five minutes in boiling water, and after 
being immersed in fresh water to cool them, should be put in press 
between two dishes, to flatten. Next, put one of the sweetbreads to 
braize in some white broth : when done, set it aside to get cool, and 
let it be afterwards cut into small circular scollops, and placed in a 
small stewpan, with an equal quantity of scollops of red tongue and 
mushrooms. Cut the three remaining sweetbreads, in a slanting direc- 
tion, into oval scollops a quarter of an inch thick ; bread-crumb one- 



312 THROAT SWEETBREADS. 

half with two coatings of bread-crumbs, by dipping them the first time 
in beaten egg, and the second in clarified butter ; place these in a 
sautapan with a little clarified butter, and prepare the other half sepa- 
rately in a similar manner, without bread-crumbing them ; both must 
be seasoned with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry 
the bread-crumbed scollops of a light-color, but the others should be 
merely simmered over a slow fire, in order to keep them as white as 
possible ; glaze the former and toss the latter in a little Bechamel 
sauce, dish them up, alternately placing a bread-crumbed scollop with 
a white one ; fill the centre with the small scollops of tongue, &c, pre- 
viously warmed in a little Bechamel sauce, pour some of the sauce round 
the base, and serve. 

908. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, WITH SHALOT GRAVY. 

Bread-crumb the whole of the scollops, as directed in the foregoing 
case, fry them of a light color, drain them on a piece of paper, and 
glaze ; dish them up in a close circle, pour some rich shalot gravy 
(No. 167) under them, and serve. 

909. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Cut the sweetbreads into oval scollops, place them in a sautapan, 
with a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, a little nut- 
meg and some chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over 
them, and simmer them gently over the fire for ten minutes ; they must 
then be removed into a dish, and when partially cold, covered with a 
thin coating of puree of fowl, mixed with an equal proportion of reduced 
Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, dip 
them in beaten egg, and bread-crumb them. Twenty minutes before 
sending to table, let them be carefully fried in plenty of hog's-lard, 
made hot for the purpose ; drain them on a napkin to absorb all the 
grease, dish them up in a close circle, pour some vuree of mushrooms 
(No. 122) in the centre, and serve. 

910. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA D'UXELLES. 

These are prepared in almost every particular just as the foregoing 
except that D'Uxelles sauce (No. 16) must be substituted for \X\e puree 
to mask the scollop with. After having simmered, let them be masked 
with the sauce, and afterwards bread-crumbed ; then fried, dished up 
and served with either of the following sauces : — Brown or white 
Italian, Poivrade, half glaze, scollops of mushrooms or truffles, puree 
of truffles, plain gravy, or puree of mushrooms. 

911. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA MARECHALE. 

These must be seasoned with a little pepper and salt, masked over 
with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and afterwards bread- 
crumbed upon this ; they should then be placed in circular order in a 
sautapan with some clarified butter, and fried of a bright-yellow color. 
When done, dish them up in close order, and let the centre be filled 
with Toulouse ragout (No. 187). 

912. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA SOUBISE. 

Prepare and dish up these, as the foregoing ; fill the centre with 
SoubUe sauce (No. 119), and serve. 



calf's liver, etc. 313 

They may also be scored with all kinds of garnishes of dressed vege- 
tables, purees of vegetables, or any kind of sauce served with cutlets. 

913. SCOLLOPS OF SWEETBREADS, A LA POULETTE. 

When the sweetbreads have been scalded in the usual manner, cut 
them into circular scollops, place them in neat order in a sautapan 
with a little clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped 
parsley and lemon-juice ; simmer them over a moderate fire for about 
ten minutes, and when done remove them into a stewpan, containing 
enough sauce a la Poulette for the entree, add some scollops of mush- 
rooms or truffles, toss the whole together gently over the stove-fire until 
sufficiently hot, and then dish them up in a pyramidal form, and serve 
with a border of croquettes of potatoes round the entree. 

Note. — Scollops of sweetbreads, a la Russe and a la Provengale, 
are prepared in the same manner as veal cutlets under these names. 

914. CROQUETTES OF SWEETBREADS. 

When the sweetbreads have been scalded, put them into a small 
stewpan with two shalots, a little mignionette-pepper and salt, half a 
bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme ; moisten with some stock-pot toppings, 
and set them to braize gently for about twenty minutes ; when done, 
drain them on a plate to get cold, after which let them be cut up into 
very small dice, and mix with some stiff-reduced Allemande sauce ; 
season with a little pepper and salt and grated nutmeg ; stir the whole 
gently over the stove-fire for two minutes, spread the preparation on a 
dish about an inch thick, and put it in the larder to get cold. The 
croquettes then must be shaped, bread-crumbed, and fried in the same 
manner as directed for veal croquettes. 

Note. — Some red tongue, mushrooms, or truffles, cut into small dice, 
may also be mixed in with the sweetbreads. 



CALF'S EARS, FEET, LITER, AND BRAINS, 

COMPRISING 

CalFs Ear, d la Tortue. Calf's Liver, fried, with Fine-herbs Sauce. 

„ fried, with Tomata sauce. Calf's Brains, with Malelotte Sauce. 
Calfs Feet, d la Pascaline. „ with Nutbrown Butter. 

„ fried, with Italian sauce. „ fried, d la Provengale. 

Calf's Liver, braized, with Vegetables. „ Scolloped. 

915. calf's ears, a la tortue. 

Procure four white calf's ears (cut with a broad base), scald them 
in boiling water for five minutes, after which plunge them in cold water 
and let thein be wiped dry ; then hold them on the point of a skewer 
over the flame of a charcoal fire to singe off any remaining hairs ; wipe 
them clean, rub them over with lemon-juice, and braize them in some 
blanc (No. 235) for about an hour and a half or two hours. When the 
ears are done, drain them on a wet napkin, and with the back of the 
blade of a small knife scrape off all the soft skin ; trim them neatly, and 



314 calf's liver, etc. 

with the point of a knife cut the white gristle of each into slits — taking 
particular care not to draw the knife through — so that when the thin 
part of the ears is turned down, the stripes may form themselves into 
loops or curls. When the ears are ready to dish up, fill each with a 
decorated quenelle or a rouud truffle, garnish with a ragout a la Tortue 
(No. 189), and serve. 

916. calf's eaes fried in - batter, with tomata sauce. 

Prepare the ears as directed in the foregoing, and when done let 
them be trimmed ; scrape off the soft skin from the upper part, and cut 
each ear iuto four pieces lengthwise; put them to steep in a basin with 
two spoonsful of salad oil, one of vinegar, two sliced shalots, parsley, 
bay-leaf, and thyme, and a little mignionette-pepper and salt. About 
twenty minutes before dinner time, drain the pieces of ears on a cloth, 
dip them in some light batter, and fry them in plenty of hog's-lard, 
heated to the proper degree for the purpose. When fried, dish them 
up in a pyramidal form, pour some Tomata sauce (No. 22) under them 
and serve. 

Note. — Calf's ears prepared in this manner may also be served with 
any of the following sauces : Piquante, Poivrade, Italian, Gherkin, 
Poor-man's, Provengale, or Richelieu. If, however, this kind of fritter 
is not eateu as soon as served, it would be better to send the sauce 
separately. 

917. calf's feet, a la pascaline. 

Separate each foot into halves by splitting the hoof with a knife, 
take the boue out, and scald these in boiling water for five minutes ; 
the feet must then be braized fh blanc (No. 235), and when done, 
drained upon a cloth, cut into pieces about two inches square, and put 
into a stewpan containing some button-mushrooms and Pascaline 
sauce (No. 15) ; toss them in this over the stove-fire until sufficiently 
hot, and serve with a border of Jleurons or potato croquettes round 
the entree. 

918. CALF'S FEET FRIED IN BATTER, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. 

These are prepared in all respects the same as calf's ears fried, but 
substituting Italian sauce (No. 12) for Tomata sauce. 

919. calf's liver braized, with vegetables. 

Choose a liver of a bright pinky color, entirely free from any 
whitish spots: wash and wipe it dry, and then lard it through with 
strips of ham and fat bacon — previously seasoned with chopped pars- 
ley, pepper, and a very little salt; cover the bottom of a stewpan 
with veal or other trimmings of meat, place the liver upon them, gar- 
nish with two carrots, two onions stuck with four cloves each, two 
heads of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; moisten with two 
glasses of Sherry and a quart of strong stock; place a buttered paper 
on the top, cover with the lid, and set the liver to braize very gently 
ou a slow fire for about two hours and a half, frequently basting it 
with its own liquor while it is being braized. When done, remove 
the liver into a deep sautapan with part of its liquor, previously 
reduced to half-glaze ; use the remainder to work some brown sauce 



calf's liver, etc. 315 

for the entree ; put the liver in the oven to be glazed with its own 
liquor, and when done dish it np with groups of small carrots, turnips, 
and glazed onions round its base, pour the sauce under it, and serve. 

920. fried calf's liver, with fine-herbs sauce. 

Cut the liver up into neat scollops about a quarter of an inch thick, 
season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown in a sautapan with a 
little clarified butter ; when this is done, pour off all the grease, add 
some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14), simmer the whole together on the fire 
for about three minutes, and serve. 

921. calf's brains, with matelotte sauce. 

Steep three sets of brains in water for several hours, care being 
taken to change the water frequently — and remove the loose skin that 
contains them ; after being washed, and placed in a stewpan, contain- 
ing some boiling water, and seasoned with a gill of vinegar, some 
thinly-sliced carrot and onion, thyme and bay-leaf, pepper and salt, let 
them boil gently for about twenty minutes. The brains must then be 
drained upon a cloth, and six croutons cut in the shape of large cocks'- 
combs previously stuck on the bottom of an entree dish, so as to form 
as many compartments ; place a lobe of brains in each of these, make a 
slight incision in each portion of the brains, and insert in it a scolloped 
circular piece of red tongue ; pour a Matelotte ragout (No. 193) over 
the entree, and serve. 

922. calf's brains, with nutbrown butter. 

Prepare, and dish up the brains as in the foregoing case ; pour 
some nutbrown butter (No. 93) over them, place a bouquet of fried 
parsley in the centre, and serve. 

923. calf's brains fried in batter, a la provencale. 

These must be cleaned, gently boiled in water, vinegar, &c; and 
when drained, cut into oval scollops, and steeped in a basin with a little 
oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry them 
in batter in the usual way (see directions for calf's ears No. 916), after 
which dish them up with some Provencale sauce (No. 25) uuder them, 
and serve. 

Note. — They may also be served with Tomala, Italian, Piquante, or 
Poivrade sauce. 

924. calf's brains scolloped. 

When the brains have been dressed, cut them into rather small scol- 
lops, and put them into a sautapan with a few scolloped mushrooms 
and truffles, season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg, pour in 
some Allemande sauce (No. T) and juice of half a lemon ; toss the 
whole gently together over the fire, and with this preparation fill as 
many silver scollop shells as will hold it ; cover these over with a 
coating of fried bread-crumbs or raspings, place them for two minutes 
in a hot oven to gratinale, dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 



316 



ENTREES OP LAMB, 

COMPRISING 

Shoulder of Lamb, larded, d la Financiire. Lamb Cutlets, bread-crumbed, with Aspa- 
Ncck of Lamb, d la Itigence. ragus Peas. 

Epigramme of Lamb, with Mushrooms. „ d la Chlvreuae. 

„ „ d la Villeroi, with Peas. . Braized Carbonnades of Lamb. 

Breasts of Lamb, d la Marichale, with New Lamb's Sweetbreads, d la Toulouse, Ac. 

Potatoes. Blanquette of Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

Lamb Cutlets (plain), with Cucumbers, &c. Lamb's Sweetbreads Scolloped. 

925. SHOULDER OF LAMB LARDED, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Saw off the upper part of the shank-bone of a shoulder of lamb, then 
bone it entirely — with the exception of about three inches of the shank 
or leg bone, which must be left in. Spread the shoulder open, season 
with pepper and salt, garnish it with a thick layer of veal or fowl force- 
meat ; then with a small trussing-needle and some fine string draw the 
outer edges of the skinny part of the shoulder into a purse-like form, 
and tighten the strings so as to give it the appearance of a cushion ; 
and, after removing the superficial skin in a circular shape, lard it 
closely. Next, strew the bottom of a stewpan with sliced carrot, onion, 
celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; cover this with thin layers 
of fat bacon, and place the shoulder of lamb upon it ; moisten with 
sufficient good stock to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper 
on the top, and cover with the lid ; then set it to braize very gently 
upon a slow fire for about an hour and a half, — with, some live embers 
of charcoal on the lid — and take care to baste it frequently. When 
done, remove it into a deep sautapan, and after having strained the 
liquor, free it from all grease, boil it down to half glaze, pour this on 
to the lamb, and put it in the oven to glaze, repeatedly basting the 
larding till the moisture is lessened. The ballotine* or shoulder of 
lamb must then be placed upon its dish, and garnished with a Financiere 
ragout (No. 188) ; put a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. 

926. NECK OF LAMB, A LA REGENCE. 

Prepare this in exactly the same way as directed for necks of mutton 
larded en chevaux-de-frise (No. 611). When braized, glaze it nicely, 
and place it upon its dish, garnish it with a white Toulouse ragout 
(No. 187), and serve. 

Note. — Necks of lamb prepared as the foregoing, may also be served 
with a Macedoine of vegetables, or a Jardiniere. 

927. EPIGRAMME OF LAMB, A LA TOULOUSE. 

Trim a neck of lamb into cutlets, and place them into a sautapan 
with some clarified butter ; then braize a breast of lamb until quite 
tender, take it up, remove the bones and put it in press between two 
dishes; when cold, cut it into as many cutlet-shaped pieces as there are 

* Shoulders of Lamb, prepared in the foregoing manner — called, in French, " fi<i!h>i- 
ine»" — may also be served with every kind of dressed vegetables, or pui-te* of vegetables. 



ENTREES OF LAMB. 317 

cutlets from the neck, insert a small piece of bone in each, and bread- 
crumb them over a coating of Allemande sauce, dip them in some 
beaten egg, bread-crumb them again, and place them in a sautapan 
with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets in 
both sautapans ; as soon as they are done, glaze them lightly, and dish 
them up — alternately placing a plain cutlet and one that is bread- 
crumbed ; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), pour 
some Espagnole half-glaze round the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Epigrammes of lamb may also be garnished with a blanquette, 
with scollops of cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus-peas, &c. 

928. BREASTS OF LAMB, A LA VILLEROI, WITH PEAS. 

Braize two breasts of lamb, in the stock-pot, or in any kind of 
white broth ; when done, take them up carefully, remove all the bones, 
and reserve these for the purpose of making cutlet bones with ; put 
the breast in press between two dishes, and when cold, cut them into 
about twelve pieces, in the form of an elongated heart, or of a cutlet ; 
stick a small bone in at the narrow end, and spread a coating of re- 
duced Allemande sauce over them ; when this is set firm by cooling, 
roll them first in bread-crumbs, and then dip them in beaten egg, and 
bread-crumb them over again. When about to send to table, fry these 
cutlets in plenty of hog's-lard quite hot, dish them up, garnish them 
with stewed peas, pour some half-glaze round the base, and serve. 

Note. — Breasts of lamb prepared a la Villeroi may also be served 
with spinach, endives, cucumbers, asparagus-peas, Macedoine, &c. 

929. BREAST OF LAMB, A LA MARECHALE, WITH NEW 
POTATOES. 

Trim and prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, but the 
coating of sauce must be thinner in this case ; bread-crumb them twice 
over the sauce, first dipped in beaten egg and then in clarified butter, 
over which bread-crumb them the second time ; put them in shape 
with the blade of a knife, and place them in a sautapan with a little 
clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets of a 
light color, drain them on a sheet of paper and glaze them lightly ; 
dish them up, and serve some white Italian sance (No. 13) under 
them. They may also be served with all kinds of vegetable garnishes. 

930. LAMB CUTLETS PLAIN, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

In trimming these cutlets, care must be taken not to pare off any 
more of the fat than is positively necessary to give them shape. 
When trimmed, place the cutlets in a sautapan with clarified butter, 
season with pepper and salt, fry them on both sides of a light-brown 
color, pour off the grease, throw in a little glaze, toss them over the 
fire in this, and dish them np ; garnish the centre with prepared 
scollops of cucumbers (No. 138), pour a little Espagnole or half-glaze 
round the entree, and serve. 

931. LAMB CUTLETS, BREAD-CRUMBED, WITH ASPARAGUS-PEAS. 

Trim the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, rub them over with 
a paste-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread-crumbs ; 






318 ENTREES OF LAMB. 

then dip them in some clarified butter, and bread-crumb them over 
again ; put them in shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in 
neat order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. When about to 
send to table, fry the cutlets of a light color, drain them upon a 
sheet of paper, glaze and dish them np ; fill the centre with asparagus- 
peas (No. 148), pour some thin Espagnole or half-glaze round them, 
and serve. 

932. LAMB CUTLETS, A LA CHEVREUSE. 

These must be cut rather thick, allowing two ribs for each, but they 
should not be trimmed ; prepare and braize them in the same manner 
as veal cutlets a la Dreux (No. 890) ; and when done, pressed, and 
trimmed, mask them over with a puree of onions mixed with two ouuces 
of grated Parmesan cheese; when cold they should be dipped in beaten 
egg, and afterward rolled in bread-crumbs; put them into shape with 
the blade of a knife, and place them in order upon a dish or sautapan, 
until dinner-time. Then fry them in heated hog's-lard, of a bright- 
yellow color, dish them up, put a small paper frill on the bone of each 
cutlet ; fill the centre with small circular scollops of truffles, mush- 
rooms, and fat livers, tossed in some Supreme sauce (No. 38), pour 
some of the sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing lamb 
cutlets, they may also be served in every variety of form iu which veal 
or mutton cutlets are prepared. 

933. BRAIZED CARBONNADES OF LAMB. 

Loins of lamb are used for this^-and should be prepared and finished 
according to the directions for carbonuades of mutton (No. 865). 

934. lamb's sweetbreads, a la toulouse. 

About ten heart sweetbreads are necessary for an entr&e ; steep these 
in cold water for a couple of hours, and then scald them slightly to set 
them, for the purpose of being afterward larded ; they must next be 
placed in a deep sautapan, covered with thin layers of fat bacon or else 
spread with butter ; moisten with sufficient strong consomme to reach 

nearly up to the larding ; place a but- 
tered paper upon them, and put them 
to boil briskly on a stove-fire for 
five minutes, then set them in the 
oven, or cover them with a lid con- 
taining live embers of charcoal, ami 
place them on a moderate stove-fire 
to simmer gently for a quarter of an 
hour, frequently basting them with 
their own liquor. When the sweet- 
breads are nearly done, remove the 
lid and the paper, put them in the 
oven, or pass the red-hot salamander over them to dry the larding, and 
then glaze them. When dished up, each sweetbread should be placed 
in the dish upon a base, formed of quenelle force-meat made of fowl or 
veal, and shaped to resemble a dariole -would : these of course should 




lambs' heads, ears, and feet. 319 

be previously poached. Fill the centre of the entree with stewed peas, 
pour some Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. 

Note. — Lambs' sweetbreads prepared as the foregoing, may also be 
served with asparagus, Macedoine or Jardiniere of vegetables ; also with 
Toulouse or Financiere ragouts ; and indeed in every form directed for 
other sweetbreads. 

i 
935. BLANQUETTE OP LAMB'S SWEETBREADS. 

Throat sweetbreads will serve for this purpose, about eight being 
sufficient for a dish ; steep them in water, scald them, and then braize 
them in a small stewpan with very little moisture ; they will be done 
in about a quarter of an hour ; put them on a dish to cool, cut them 
into scollops, and put them into a stewpan containing some sauce 
a la Poulette, toss the whole together till warm, then dish up the Man- 
quette in a conical form, garnish it round with a border of potato 
croquettes made in the form of pears and serve. 

Note. — Mushrooms, truffles, cucumbers, or asparagus-peas may be 
added. 

936. SCOLLOPED lamb's sweetbreads. 

Braize the sweetbreads, when cold cut them into rather thin small 
scollops, and finish these according to the directions for scolloped 
calfs brains (No. 924). 



LAMBS' HEADS, EARS, AND FEET, 

COMPRISING 

Lamb's Head, d la Pascaline. Lamb's Ears, fried in Batter. 

Lamb's Ears, d la Financiere. Lamb's Feet, d la Poulette. 

" d la Dauphine. " d la d'Uxelle*. 

" d la Venitihme. " fried in Batter. 

937. lamb's head, a la pascaline. 

The lamb's head must be scalded in the same way as a calf's head 
for mock turtle, then boned, and filled up with force-meat made of 
the liver, as for a gratin (No. 249) ; sew the the head up with a trussing 
needle and small twine, secure it in shape by fastening it in a napkin 
previously spread with butter, and set it to braize in a stewpan 
seasoned with a carrot, an onion, one head of celery, a garnished fag- 
got of parsley, six cloves, and a blade of mace ; moisten with good 
stock, and allow it to boil gently for about an hour and a half. 

While the above is in preparation, four lambs' sweetbreads should 
be larded and prepared ready for glazing ; two sets of lambs' brains 
must also be cleansed, and boiled in a little vinegar and water 
with sliced carrot and onion, pepper and salt, afterward drained, cut 
and made into croquettes. Four lamb's tongues, after being braized, 
must be cut into scollops, and placed in a stewpan with an equal 
quantity of scolloped mushrooms, and enough of Pascaline sauce (No. 
15), for the entree. 



320 ENTREES OF LAMBS' HEADS. 

When about to send to table, place the head with the ears curled 
upon its dish, and the larded sweetbreads at its four corners ; between 
these put the croquettes of brains, previously fried, pour the scollops 
of tongue, mushrooms, and sauce round the head, glaze it and serve. 

938. lambs' ears, a la financiere. 

Procure a dozen lambs' ears, scald these, then immerse them in 
cold water ; when cold, wipe them dry, and singe them over the 
flame of a charcoal fire ; they must then be gently braized in some 
blanc (No. 235) for about three-quarters of an hour, and when done 
drain upon a napkin ; the thin part of the ears should be carefully 
scraped with the back part of the blade of a knife to remove the skin, 
leaving the white cartilaginous part entire; this last must then be 
slit in narrow bands, without cutting through the ends, so that when 
the ears are turned down, these bands by curling over should appear 
like a row of loops ; place the ears as they are trimmed in a deep 
sautapan or stewpan containing some of their own liquor, cover them 
with a buttered paper and the lid, and set them aside till dinner-time. 

While the ears are braizing, prepare some veal force-meat, and fill a 
plain low cylinder border mould (previously buttered) with the force- 
meat ; poach this in the usual way, and when about to send to table, 
turn it out upon its dish, place the lambs' ears all round the top of it 
and in each of these put a round ball of black truffle ; fill the centre 
with a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), pour some of the sauce round 
the base and serve. 

Note. — This entree may also be served with a ragout a la Tortwt 
(No 189). 

939. lambs' ears, a la dauphine. 

Soald, singe, braize, and trim the lambs' ears as in the foregoing case, 
but they must not be slit. Fill them with force-meat made with the 
fillets of a fowl, or some veal, in which has been mixed a spoonful of 
white sauce and some chopped mushrooms ; mask the ears over with a 
coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set 
upon tliem, roll them in bread-crumbs, and dip each separately in 
some beaten ogg seasoned with a little salt, then bread-crumb them 
over again, place them upon a dish, and set them aside in the larder. 
When about to send to table, fry the ears in plenty of heated hog's- 
lard, of a fine light color, dish them up in a circular row, or pyra- 
midally, pour some Supreme or Bechamel sauce, containing a few 
mushrooms cut into shreds or scollops, round and under them, and serve. 

940. lambs' ears, a la venitienne. 

Prepare these exactly in the same manner as for d la Finandire 
(No. 938), dish them up in a circle on the dish, fill the centre with 
small round balls, or croquettes of rice, prepared as follows : l>oil four 
ounces of rice in white broth till done quite soft, then season with a 
pat of butter, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, 
Cayenne pepper and salt ; mix the whole well together, and form it 
into small round balls the size of marbles, roll these in flour, and fry 
them in clarified butter in a sautapan. Pour some Venetian sauce 
(No. 26) over the ears, and serve. 



ENTREES OF PORK. 321 

941. lamb's ears, fried in batter. 
See Calf's ears so prepared (No. 910). 

912. lamb's feet, a la roulette. 

Remove the shank-bones from a dozen lambs' feet, without tearing 
or cutting 1 through the part that covers the bone; scald them for 
about live minutes in boiling- water, and then immerse them in cold 
water; wipe and singe them over the flame of a charcoal lire, rub 
them over with lemon-juice, and braize them in some Wane (No. 235) 
for about an hour; then drain them upon a cloth, trim off the 
extremities neatly, make an incision in the hoof, and remove the 
round tuft of wool ; place the lamb's feet in a stewpan containing 
some button-mushrooms and enough sauce a la Poulette for the entree, 
toss them in this over the stove-lire until quite warm; then dish 
them up neatly, aud serve with a border of jleurons, or croutons of 
fried bread. 

913. lamb's feet, a la d'uxelles. 

Braize and trim the feet as in the foregoing case, cover them with 
a coating of If Uxellea sauce (No. 16), and when this has become 
firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb them twice over in the usual manner, 
and fry them in hog's lard ; when done, drain them upon a cloth, dish 
them up with fried parsley upon a napkin, and serve some Italian 
sauce (No. 12) separately in a boat. 

911. lamb's feet, FRIED IX BATTER. 
See Calf's feet (No. 918). 



ENTREES OF PORK, 

COMPRISING 

Griskin, or Spare-rib, of Pork, d la Soubise. Pig's Feet, a la Ste. Menehould. 

,, „ d la Lyonnaise. „ d In Periyord. 

,, „ d In Periyucux. „ d la Richelieu. 

Pork Cutlets, with plain gravy. &e. Black Puddings, d la Fmncaise. 

„ d la sauce Hubert, Ac. ,, d I'Anglaise. 

,, « I'Aurure. AVhite Puddings, a la lioyale. 

,, d V [nil it 'nne. 

945. GRISKIN, OR SPARE-RIB OF PORK, A LA SOUBISE. 

Trim a griskin of pork, and lard it closely, then put it in a deep 
dish with sliced onion and carrot, parsley, a gill of salad oil, some slices 
of peeled lemon, and a little mignionette pepper ; allow the griskin to 
steep in this for several hours, or a whole day, if possible. When 
about to dress the griskin, twist it round, run a stout iron skewer 
through, and fasten it upon the spit tightly with string ; cover the 
larding with buttered paper, and roast it before the fire for about an 
hour ; as soon as a kind of vapor arises, and it sputters toward the 
fire, it is time to take it up. When the griskin is placed upon its 
dish, pour some Soubise sauce (No. 119) round it, garnish with a bor- 
der of potatoes fried in clarified butter, "laze the griskin, aud serve. 
20 



m 

322 ENTREES OF PORK. 

946. GRISKIN OF PORK, A LA LYOXNAISE. 

Prepare and roast this in the same way as the foregoing, and when 
done, dish it up with some Lyonnaise sauce (No. 24) round it ; gar- 
nish with a border of toraatas au gratin (No. 1160), glaze the griskin, 
and serve. 

947. GRISKIN" OF PORK, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

This must be prepared and roasted as the foregoing ; when done, 
serve with some Perigueux sauce (No. 23), and a border of mushrooms 
au gratin (1161) aound it. 

948. PORK CUTLETS, PLAIN BROILED, WITH GRAVY, ETC. 

These cutlets must be cut from the neck or loin of dairy -fed pork, 
not too fat ; they should be trimmed but very little, the rough part of 
the cbine-bone only requiring to be removed ;' thr skin must be left 
on, and scored in six places. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, 
and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire ; coke makes a better fire 
than coal for broiling, as it emits no gas, and causes less smoke. Take 
care that they are thoroughly done and not scorched ; dish them up 
with any of the following gravies or sauces, and serve : — Plan sage 
and onion, shalot, onion, fine-herbs, gravies, or essences: Piquante, 
Gherkin, Tomata, Poivrade, Poor-man's, Richelieu, and Gasconne 
sauces. 

949. PORK CUTLETS, A LA SAUCE ROBERT, ETC. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, observing, however, that nearly half an 
inch of the fat must be left on, to encircle the fillet of the cutlet ; 
place them in an eartheu dish with a table -spoonful of salad oil; 
season with a little salt and pepper, and strew some parsley over 
them. When about to send to table, broil the cutlets nicely with 
the gravy in them, glaze and dish them up ; pour under some sauce 
a la Robert (No. 67), and serve. 

950. PORK CUTLETS, A L'AURORE. 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place 
them in a sautapan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes 
before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a brisk fire, so as to 
lightly color them on both sides before they are done, then pour off 
all the grease, leaving the cutlets neatly arranged in the sautapan, 
and glaze them. Next rub the yolks of six eggs, previously boiled 
hard, equally over all the cutlets, and pass the red-hot salamander 
over them to color the yolk of egg a shade darker ; then dish up the 
cutlets with some essence of anchovies (No. 176) poured under them, 
and serve. 

951. PORK CUTLETS, A l'iNDIEN"NE. 

Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, then pour off all the grease, 
adding about half a pint of Espagnole sauce, and a table-spoonful of 
Cook's curry paste; put the lid on the sautapan, and tamer the cut- 
lets on the fire very gently for ten minutes longer; then add a small 
piece of glaze, toss the whole together, dish them up in a close circle, 
fill the centre with rice boiled in plain broth, pour the sauce over the 
cutlets, and serve. 



w 

pig's feet. 323 

952. pigs'-feet, a la ste. menehould. 

For this purpose procure the feet of bacon hogs, as the feet of 
porkers are not large enough to be worth dressing for the table. They 
must first be pickled in common salt brine, for about ten days, and 
then, after being washed, should be gently braized in common broth, 
seasoned with carrot, onion, celery, and garnished faggot of parsley ; 
if the feet are large, they will require about four hours gentle boiling. 
When done, drain them on an earthen dish, cut them into halves, and 
remove all the large bones, press them into shape with the hands, and 
put them in the larder to cool. Next, season the pieces of pigs'-feet 
with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in 
clarified butter, then roll them in fresh made bread-crumbs, and pat 
these closely on with the blade of a knife ; broil them on a gridiron 
over a clear fire, taking care that they are frequently turned until 
warmed through : they are then to be dished up and served with 
Piquante sauce (No. 18). 

953. PIGS'-FEET, A LA PERIGORD. 

These should be braized and the bones taken out, and before they 
become quite cold, filled inside, and partially covered, with some force- 
meat of fat livers, in which has been mixed some chopped truffles ; and 
when this is placed on the feet, some scollops of truffles must also be 
intermixed with it. The feet must next be wrapped up in appropriate- 
sized pieces of pigs' caul, and then bread-crumbed over this. When 
about to send to table, broil the feet upon oiled paper placed upon the 
gridiron, to prevent them from burning or falling to pieces, which, 
from the delicacy of the force-meat (if properly prepared), they are 
liable to. When nicely broiled on both sides, glaze and dish them up, 
and serve with some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) under them. 

954. PIGS'-FEET, A LA RICHELIEU. 

Braize tne feet, remove all the bones, and cut each foot in halves, 
lengthwise; spread them all over with a coating of D' Uxelles sauce 
(No. 16), and when this has become firmly set by cooling, bread- 
crumb them twice over, the first time dipped in egg,- and the second in 
clarified butter : place them in a sauta-pan with clarified butter, 
and fry them over a stove-fire of moderate heat, so as to allow them 
time to warm through before they acquire muGh color. When done, 
dish them up, and serve with some Richelieu ragout (No. 207) under 
them. 

955. BLACK-PUDDINGS, A LA FEANCAISE. 

To one pint of pig's blood, add rather more than half a pint of 
boiled double cream, three-quarters of a pound of the fat from the 
inside of a pig, cut into rather small pieces, and four large onions 
chopped and fried in a little butter without becoming colored ; 
season with a little chopped bay-leaf and thyme, nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt ; mix well together, and stuff the linings, prepared perfectly clean 
for the purpose, with the above, taking care to allow room for tying 
them into lengths of about six inches. Some water must be kept 
nearly at the boiling-point, and then removed from the fire down to 
the side, and the puddings immersed, and allowed to remain in it 



324 ENTREES OF VENISON. 

until they become somewhat firm to the touch ; they must not, however, 
be kept in the water longer than will suffice to set the preparation. 
The puddings, when taken out of the water, should be hung up in the 
larder to cool. 

956. BLACK-PUDDINGS, A L'ANGLAISE. 

The chief difference from the foregoing, in making black-puddings 
according to the English method, lies in the omission of the nutmeg, 
bay-leaf, and thyme, and in the addition of boiled Embden grits or rice ; 
in all other respects, the same directions must be followed. 

When about to dress the black-puddings, they should be scored all 
over to prevent them from bursting while being broiled, and when done, 
are to be dished up with strips of dry toast placed between each piece 
of pudding : the centre of the dish should be filled with mashed pota- 
toes to keep them quite hot. 

957. WHITE-PUDDINGS, A LA P.OYALE. 

To half a pound of the breast of roast fowl thoroughly pounded 
and passed into a puree, add half a pint of boiled double cream, half a 
pound of fresh made and very fine bread-crumbs, one onion chopped 
fine, and boiled down in some white broth, and four ounces of butter 
and eight yolks of eggs ; season with pepper and salt, and grated 
nutmeg ; mix well together, put this preparation into the linings, and 
finish them in the same manner as the black-puddings. When about 
to send to table, score the puddings before they are broiled, and place 
them on the gridiron upon a sheet of oiled paper ; when nicely broiled, 
serve them, dished up, with either of the following sauces : — 
Supreme, Richelieu, Poivrade, essence of shallots, of truffles, or of 
mushrooms. 



ENTREES OP YENISON, 



COMPRISING 



Baricdt of Venison. Cutlets of Roebuck, & la Chasseur. 

Civet of Venison. Fillets of Roebuck, d la Kinnaird. 
Venison Scollops. ,, with Poivrade sauce. 

Venison Chops. Civet of Roebuck. 
Venison Fry. 

958. HARICOT OF VENISON. 

Trim a neck of venison into cutlets without paring off any of the 
fat, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them quickly brown on 
both sides before they are more than half done ; then pour off all the 
grease, shake a handful of flour over the cutlets, and toss them about 
over the fire for three minutes, moisten with a pint of red wine and a 
quart of good stock ; add half a pint of small button-onions, and 
twice that quantity of turnips and carrots, cut into small fanciful 
shapes of the size of the onions, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; 
stir the haricot over the stove-fire with a wooden spoon until it boils, 
and then remove it to the side of the stove to continue gently boiling 
for about an hour and a half; when, if the cutlets are found to be 



SCOLLOPS OF VENISON, ETC. 325 

done tender, remove them into a deep sautapan ; then add the vegetables 
with a ragout spoon (with holes in it), and after the sanee has boiled 
up and been skimmed, reduce it, if necessary, to its proper consistency, 
and pass it through a tammy into a sautapan containing the cutlets, 
&c. ; then add a little salt, if needed ; simmer the whole together on 
the stove-fire, dish the cutlets in the usual way, fill the centre with the 
vegetables uour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

959. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Fry the cutlets brown, pour off all the grease, add a pint of red wine, 
a pint of Espagnole, and the same proportion of consomme, season with 
a carrot, an onion, head of celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley; 
allow the whole to simmer gently by the side of the stove-fire until the 
cutiets are tender ; they must then be removed into a sautapan, with 
a little of the sauce to warm them in, the lid put on, and kept warm. 
The remainder of the sauce must then be strained through a sieve into 
a smaller stewpan ; and after it has been clarified, by gently boiling it 
by the side of the stove-fire, and thoroughly skimming all that rises to 
the surface, reduce it by boiling to its proper consistency, and pass it 
through a tammy into a bain-marie When about to send to table, 
dish the cutlets up, fill the centre with some glazed carrots and turnips, 
previously prepared for the purpose; place some groups of small glazed 
button-onions round the entree, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and 
serve. 

Some neat frills of paper may be put on the bone of each cutlet. 

9 GO. CIVET OF VENISON. 

This dish, although not very choice, is often served at the tables of 
wealthy epicures; in general, the inferior parts of venison, — such as 
the shoulder and scrag end of the neck- — are used for this purpose. 
The venison must be cut up into pieces, and for its preparation follow 
the directions for making a civet of hare (No. 1010). 

961. VENISON SCOLLOPS. 

Venison for this purpose ought to be kept until it has become 
quite tender: a piece of the end of the neck may be used. Cut. the 
fillet from the bones, with all the fat adhering to it, remove the outer 
skin, and then cut it into scollops — taking care not to trim off more 
of the fat than is necessary ; place them in a sautapan with clarified 
butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown on both sides; 
pour off all the grease, add some scollops of mushrooms, a piece of 
glaze, and a glass of Port wine; simmer the whole together over the 
stove-fire for about three minutes, and then pour in some Poivrade 
sauce (Xo. 20); toss the scollops in the sauce on the fire until cjuite 
hot, and then dish them up with a border of quenelles of potatoes 
(No. 312), and serve. 

These scollops may also be served with Portarlington sweet sauce 
(No. G6), in which case the mushrooms must be omitted. 

962. VENISON CHOPS. 

CijT the chops about an inch thick, from the end of the haunch or 
the best end of the neck, flatten them a little with a cutlet bat, trim 



326 ENTREES OF VENISON. 

them without waste, season with pepper and salt, and broil them on a 
gridiron, over a clear fire of moderate heat; turning them over everv 
three minutes while on the fire ; when done through with their gravy 
in them, lift them carefully off the gridiron without spilling the gravy 
that may be swimming on the surface, dish them up with a little rich 
brown gravy under them, and serve some currant-jelly or veuison sweet 
sauce (No. 65), separately, in a boat. 

963. VENISON FRY. 

Cut the fry into appropriate-sized pieces, season with pepper and 
salt, place them in a napkin, and shake them up with a handful of flour, 
then fry them brown and crisp in a sautapan or frying-pan with soma 
butter ; when done, dish them up in a pile with fried paisley round, 
pour either of the following sauces under it, and serve quite hot : rich 
brown gravy, essence of anchovies, Poivrade, Espagnole, Italian, or 
Piquante sauce. 

964. CUTLETS OF ROEBUCK, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Trim the cutlets in the usual way, and place them in a santapan 
with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and set them in the 
larder. Put the shoulder on the spit, wrap it in buttered paper, and 
roast it before a fire of moderate heat until done ; all the meat must 
then be cut from the bone, chopped fine, and thoroughly pounded in a 
mortar with a spoonful of sauce and a pat of butter, then rubbed 
through a tammy or very fine wire sieve, into a puree ; this must be 
gathered up into a small stewpan and placed with the cutlets. When 
about to send to table, fry the cutlets brown, pour off the grease, add 
a piece of glaze, two large spoonfuls of Espagnole or Poivrade sauce 
(if the former, add some lemon-juice also) ; allow the cutlets to simmer 
over the fire for a few minutes, and then dish them up ; fill the centre 
with the puree — previously warmed with care, and to which a piece 
of glaze has been added — pour the sauce over the entree, and serve* 

965. FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, A LA KINNAIRD. 

Cut out the fillets from two necks of roebuck, trim these neatly, and 
lard them closely ; steep them for about two days and nights in some 
cold marinade (No. 234), and when about to dress the fillets, drain 
them upon a cloth, place them in a sautapan spread with butter, and 
moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236) in sufficient quantity to 
reach up to the larding ; place a buttered paper on the top, and put 
them to braize in the oven ; baste them frequently with their own 
liquor, and when done, glaze them nicely, and place them on their dish ; 
garnish with groups of quenelles made with roebuck, and small pota- 
toes cut in the form of large olives and fried in clarified butter ; pour 
some Napolitaine sauce (No. 63) under the entree, glaze the fillets, and 
serve. 

966. FILLETS OF ROEBUCK, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 

These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing ; when 
done and glazed, dish them up with a border of potatoes, cut in the 
form of olives, and fried in clarified butter, pour some Poivrade sauce 
(No. 29) under them, and serve. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY. 327 

967. CIVET OF KOEBUCK 
Is prepared in the same way as civet of hare (1010). 



ENTREES OF POULTRY, 

COMPRISING 

Fricassee of Chickens, with Mushrooms, &c. Chickens, d la Lyonnaise. 

„ d la St. Lambej-t. „ d la Diable. 

„ d la Dauphine. „ d la Tartare. 

„ d la Financiere. „ d I'AljjSrienne. 

„ d la Ghevaliere. „ d la Florentine. 

„ d la liomaine. Curry of ditto, « I'lndienne. 

Chickens, d la Marengo. FritSt of Chickens, with Tomatn Sauce, &c. 

„ with Oysters, &c. Capilotade of Chickens, d V Italiinne. 

„ with Truffles, &c. Chickens, d la Toscane. 

„ d la Provencale. Marinade of Chickens, fried in Batter. 

968. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, WITH MUSHROOMS, ETC. 

Procure two fat, plump chickens, and after they have been drawn, 
singe them over the flame of a charcoal fire, and then cut up into small 
members or joints, in the following manner : — First, remove the wings 
at the second joint, and the legs at the knotty bend of the first joint ; 
then take hold of the chicken with the left hand, and with a sharp knife 
make two parallel cuts, lengthwise, on the back, about an inch and a 
half apart, so as partly to detach or at least to mark out where the legs 
and wings are to be removed ; the chicken must next be placed upon 
its side on the table, and, after the leg and fillet (with the pinion left 
on the upper side) have been cut, the same must be repeated on the 
other, and the thigh-bones must be removed. Then, separate the back 
and breast, trim these without waste, and cut the back across into two 
pieces : steep the whole in a pan containing clear tepid water for about 
ten minutes, frequently squeezing the pieces with the hand to extract 
all the blood. Next, strew the bottom of a stewpan with thinly-sliced 
carrot, onion, and a little celery, three cloves, twelve pepper-corns, a 
blade of mace, and a garnished faggot of parsley ; place the pieces 
of chicken in close and neat order upon the vegetables, &c, moisten 
with about a quart of boiling broth from the stockpot, or failing this, 
with water, cover with the lid, and set the whole to boil gently by the 
side of the stove-fire for about half an hour, when the chickens will be 
done. They must then be strained in a sieve, and their broth reserved 
in a basin ; next, immerse the pieces of chicken in cold water, wash 
and drain them upon a napkin, and afterward trim them neatly and 
place them in a stewpan in the larder. Then put 2 oz. of fresh butter 
to melt in a stewpan, to this add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir 
the roux over the fire for three minutes without allowing it to acquire 
any color ; it should then be removed from the stove, and the chicken- 
broth being poured into it, the whole must be thoroughly mixed to- 
gether into a smooth sauce ; throw in some trimmings of mushrooms, 
and stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, then set it by the side to 
continue gently boiling to throw up the butter and scum. When the 






328 ENTREES OF POULTRY. 

sauce has boiled half an hour, skim it, reduce it by further boiling to 
its proper consistency, and then incorporate with it a leason of four 
yolks of eggs, mixed with a pat of butter and a little cream ; set the 
leason in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it nearly boils, then 
pass it through a tammy into the stewpan containing the pieces of 
chicken, and add thereto half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms. 
When about to send to table, warm the fricassee without allowing it to 
boil, and dish it up as follows : 

First, put the pieces of the back in the centre of the dish, place the 
legs at the angles, the bones pointed inwardly ; next, place the fillets 
upon these, and then set the pieces of breast on the top ; pour the 
sauce over the entree, and place the mushrooms about the fricassee in 
groups ; surround the entree with eight or ten glazed croutons of fried 
bread cut in the form of hearts, and serve. 

Note. — Truffles cut into scollops, or shaped in the form of olives ; 
crayfish-tails, button-onions, or artichoke-bottoms, cut into small pointed 
quarters, may also be served with a fricassee of chickens. 

969. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA ST. LAMBERT. 

Cut into small dice the following vegetables, &c. : one carrot, an 
onion, one head of celery, and 4 oz. of raw ham ; put these into a 
stewpan with a small piece of butter, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
three cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns ; stir these over 
a slow fire for about ten minutes, without allowing them to acquire any 
color, then moisten the whole with a pint of French white wine, and 
the same quantity of common broth ; boil this gently for half an hour, 
and then strain it through a sieve into a basin. Next, cut the chickens 
up as directed in the foregoing case 1 *, melt 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, 
throw in the pieces of chicken, and toss them over the fire until they 
become set and feel firm to the touch, without, however, acquiring any 
color ; then shake in two table-spoonfuls of flour, toss the whole to- 
gether over the fire for two minutes, and pour in the broth prepared 
for the purpose ; stir the fricassee over the fire until it boils, and finish 
it in the same way as the foregoing. When about to send to table, 
warm and dish up the fricassee, place about it small groups of glazed 
carrots, turnips, and French-beans, cut into small fanciful shapes, and 
garnish the base by placing a border composed of about eight small 
artichoke-bottoms, nicely turned and boiled, each filled alternately with 
glazed carrots and green-peas ; pour the sauce round the enfree, and 
serve. 

970. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Prepare a fricassee in the same manner as described in No. 068, 
and place the pieces of chicken, when trimmed, on an earthen dish ; 
after having reduced the sauce to the consistency of Allemande, incor- 
porate the leason, &c, and when this is set in the sauce, pass it 
through a tammy into a small basin ; dip each of the pieces of chicken 
in this, and replace them on the dish ; when the sauce has become set, 
upon them by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, let them be dipped 
in beaten egg, and bread-crumbed over again. When about to send 
to table, place the pieces of chicken thus prepared carefully upon the 
wire lining of a frying-pan, immerse them all at once in plenty of 



FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS. 



329 



clean hog's lard heated for the purpose, fry them of a light color ; 
and when done, drain them upon a cloth, dish them up on a clean 
napkin with fried parsley, and serve some white Italian sauce (Xo. 13), 
separately in a boat. 

Note.- — This entree may also be dished up without a napkin, and 
some Allemande or Bechamel sauce, containing a few scollops of 
mushrooms or truffles, may be poured under, and round it. 

971. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA FINANCIERS. 

Prepare this as directed in Xo. 968, and when it is dished up, 
garnish it with groups of cocks'-combs, mushrooms, truffles, and some 
small quenelles of fowl ; place eight large crayfish in an upright posi- 
tion round the entree, and a larded sweetbread on the top. 

972. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA CHEVALIERE. 
When the chickens have been drawn and singed, remove the legs 

and wings, and then, with the point of a knife, slit the skin of the 
breast, spread it off' the fillets, and 
remove these with the pinion-bone 
left on them ; each fillet must be 
trimmed, then closely larded, and 
placed in a small sauta-pan upon 
thin layers of fat bacon ; the min- 
ion fillets should also be trimmed 
(the sinew being first extracted), 
then decorated or conlises with 
black truffle and placed in a sauta- 
pan with butter ; the remainder of 
the chickens must be cut up and 
made into a fricassee in the ordinary 
way. When this is done, the four 

legs must be neatly trimmed and set aside in the larder, and the 
smaller pieces placed in a stewpan with a few button mushrooms, 
cocks'-combs and kernels and truffles; then, reduce the same by boil- 
ing it to the consistency of Allemande sauce, incorporate these with a 
leason of four yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, mignionette pep- 
p-er, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; when this 
has become set in the sauce by stirring it over the fire for two minutes, 
pass two thirds of it through a tammy on to the fricassee, and reserve 
the remainder for the purpose of masking the legs with it. These 
must be afterwards bread-crumbed and fried of a light color. The 
larded fillets should be moistened with a little half-glaze, and put in 
the oven, or on a slow stove with fire on the lid, to braize or simmer 
for about twenty minutes; they are then to be glazed. In dishing 
up this entree, first place all the small members of the chicken in the 
bottom of the dish in neat and square order ; the legs are next to 
be added, and then the larded fillets must be placed between these 
with the taper end pointing upward; the four minion fillets (turned 
round in the form of rings) should be placed so as to rest upon the 
upper part of each of the legs, and the whole surmounted with a 
large truffle, and a border of large crayfish, and white double cocks'- 
combs should be placed round the entree ; add the remainder of the 
sauce, and serve. 




I 



330 ENTUE33 OF POULTRY. 

973. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, A LA ROMAINE. 

"When the chickens have been cut up and trimmed in the usual 
way, place the pieces neatly in a sauta-pan with a gill of salad oil, bay- 
leaf and thyme, four shalots, mignionette pepper and salt, a little grated 
nutmeg, one clove of garlic, and a dozen small pimentos ; fry the 
chickens over a rather brisk fire until the pieces become firm to the 
touch, but without allowing them to acquire any color ; shake in 
two spoonfuls of flour, toss the whole over the fire for three minutes, 
and moisten with a pint of Chablis or Sauterne wine, and a pint of 
white consomme; stir the fricassee on the fire till it boils, then remove 
it to the side to continue gently boiling for half an hour. Skim off 
the oil, &c, that has risen to the surface, drain the pieces of chicken 
on a sieve, reserving the sauce in a stewpan to be reduced and finished 
in the ordinary manner ; trim the pieces of chicken neatly, and put 
them into a stewpan with the sauce, some button-mushrooms or 
morels, trimmed crayfish-tails and cocks'-kemels. When about to 
send to table, warm the fricassee, and add the juice of half a lemon 
and a pat of butter, previously pounded with six small red pimentos 
and a piece of lobster coral, and passed through a sieve. Dish this in 
the same manner to the first, garnish it round with a border of Raviolis 
(No. 375), and serve. 

974. CHICKENS, A LA MARENGO. 

Cut up the chickens or fowls into small joints, as for a fricassee ; 
place them in a saucepan with half a gill of salad oil, and half a pound 
of truffles cut into the form of olives, a garuished faggot of parsley 
and green onions, a bruised clove of garlic, mignionette pepper, and 
salt ; set the sauta-pan on a moderate fire, and put some live embers 
of charcoal on the lid. Allow the chickens to fry rather briskly, so 
as to acquire a deep-yellow or brown color ; about twenty minutes 
will suffice to do them. Then pour off nearly all the oil, and remove 
the faggot of parsley; add half a pottle of prepared button-mushrooms, 
a small ladleful of worked Espagnole sauce (No. 3), and a piece of 
glaze; simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, add 
the juice of a lemon, and dish up the entree in the following order. 
First, place the pieces of the backs and the wings, next the legs, the 
fillets, and lastly the pieces of the breasts, theu pour the sauce, &c, 
over the entree, garnish it round with croutons of bread, and large 
crayfish, and serve. 

975. CHICKENS SAUTES, "WITH OYSTER SAUCE, ETC. 

These must be eut up in the ordinary way, and after being neatly 
trimmed, should be placed in a sauta-pan with some clarified butter, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and fried of a light-brown color. 
Pour off the butter, add three dozen parboiled oysters with their liquor 
(previously reduce in quantity by boiling), and two large gravy- 
spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce, a piece of glaze, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; set the whole on the fire to simmer for five minutes, and 
then dish up the entree with fried croutons of bread rouud it. 

Note. — This method of dressing chickens or fowls may be varied In- 
substituting muscles, cockles, olives, truffles, mushrooms, or morels, for 
the oysters. 



CHICKENS. 331 

976. CHICKENS WITH TEUFFLES, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Prepare these as in the foregoing case, and when the.)* are fried 
brown, pour off the grease ; add a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), 
and half a pound of truffles cut into scollops or round balls ; simmer 
the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and then dish up the 
entree as directed in the foregoing cases ; pour the ragout over it, 
garnish with croutons and crayfish, and serve. 

977. CHICKENS, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Cut four large onions into rings, put them into a sautapan with a 
gill of salad-oil, and fry them of a light-brown color ; then add two 
chickens cut up and trimmed as for a fricassee ; season with mignion- 
ette pepper, and salt, a garuished faggot of parsley, and a clove of 
garlic ; cover with the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, 
and set the chickens to simmer briskly over a moderate fire for about 
half an hour. Put about two dozen morels or mushrooms into a small 
stewpan with some chopped truffles, shalots, mushrooms, and parsley ; 
moisten with a table-spoonful of salad-oil, and a glass of Madeira; 
stew these on the fire for five minutes, aud then boil the whole down 
to a glaze. When the chickens are done, pour off all the grease, add 
the morels, &c, a piece of glaze, and some Tomata sauce (No. 22) ; 
simmer the whole together for five minutes over the fire, then dish 
up the entree in a conical form, pour the ragout over it, and serve. 

978. CHICKENS, A LA LYONNAISE. 
Cut these up and fry them in butter, as directed for the chickens 
with oysters ; when they are done, pour off all the grease, add some 
Lyonnaise sauce (No. 24), simmer the whole together on the stove-fire 
for ten minutes, and serve. 

979. CHICKENS, A LA DIABLE. 

First draw and singe the chickens, and then twist their legs inside 
neatly through the sides without tearing the skin ; next cut them 
through the breast-bone, lengthwise, into halves ; take out all 'the 
bones, season with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste-brush 
dipped in clarified butter, and broil them on both sides, of a light 
color ; when done, dish them up and glaze them over, pour some 
sauce a la Diable (No. 17) under them, and serve. 

980. CHICKENS, A LA TARTARE. 

Bone the chickens as in the foregoing case, season with pepper and 
salt, rub tham over with a paste-brush dipped in yolks of eggs, bread- 
crumb them, then spread on some clarified butter, and bread-crumb 
them over again ; pat the bread-crumbs closely together with the blade 
of a knife, broil them carefully to prevent their acquiring much color, 
and when done, glaze them lightly, and serve with some half glaze 
under them. Send some Tartare sauce (No. 96) separately in a boat. 

981. CHICKENS, A L'ALGERIENNE. 

Cut these up as for a fricassee, place the pieces in a deep sautapan 
with some clarified butter, and about one pound of raw ham cut into 
neat scollops ; season with cayenne, a garnished faggot of parsley and 



1 



332 ENTREES OF POULTRY. 

green-onions, and a clove of garlic ; fry the chickens over a brisk fire 
until they acquire a fine yellow color ; then pour off the grease, and 
add a glass of Madeira, a teaspoonful of curry-paste, a piece of glaze, 
two gravy-spooufuls of Espagnole sauce, and half a pottle of mush- 
rooms ; simmer the whole together over the fire for ten minutes, thei 
add a pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon. Dish up the entrct 
in a pyramidal form, reserving the pieces of breast and the fillets to 
be placed uppermost ; garnish with the ham and mushrooms, pour the 
sauce over all, place twelve croutons of bread round the base, and serve. 

982. CHICKENS, A LA FLORENTINE. 

For this purpose, choose two very small spring chickens, bone 
them in halves, trim them neatly, season with mignionette pepper and 
salt, and place them in a deep sautapan with half a gill of salad-oil, 
and a garnished faggot of parsley and green-onions containing a clove 
of garlic ; then add half a pound of raw ham or streaky bacon, cut up 
into square pieces and parboiled in water for ten minutes, a table- 
spoonful of the powder of sweet red pimento, half a pint of small 
button-onions, also parboiled in water for five minutes, the same 
quantity of small carrots turned in the form of olives, and half a pottle 
of mushrooms. Set the whole over a moderate fire until the pieces 
of chicken, &c, acquire a light color, then pour off all the grease, 
add a glass of Malaga wine and a piece of glaze ; simmer the whole 
together over a brisk fire until the moistening is reduced to a glaze; 
toss the pieces of chicken. &c, about, in this to make it adhere to 
them, and immediately dish up the entree, reserving the mushrooms, 
&c, to be placed in groups about the dish ; next, pour a spoonful of 
Espagnole sauce into the sautapan, udd the juice of half a lemon, allow 
this sauce to simmer, pour it over the entree, and serve. 

983. CURRY OF CHICKENS, A L'lNDIENNE 
Cut these as for a fricassee, trim them neatly, place them in a 
sautapan with some clarified butter, and fry them over a stove-fire 
until they become firm to the touch - r then pour off all the grease, add 
sufficient curry-sauce (No. 41) for the entree, and set. the curry to 
simmer very gently over a slow stove-fire until the pieces of chicken 
have become perfectly tender ; the entree may then be dished up, and 
sauce poured over it, and with some plain boiled rice separately. 

984. ANOTHER METHOD. 
Fry the pieces of chicken or fowl in butter, until they are brightly 
browned all over, and remove them into a stewpan ; then slice up 
three large onions and two heads of celery, and put these into a stew- 
pan, together with a clove of garlic, a garnished faggot of parsley, ;i 
blade of mace, and four cloves. Fry the whole over a slow fire until 
they acquire a light-brown color ; add a large table-spoonful of 
Cook's meat-cnrry-paste, and a similar proportion of flour : mix all the 
above together, and moisten with a pint of good broth or gravy; stir 
the sauce over the fire and keep it boiling for about twenty minutes, 
then rub the whole through a hair-sieve or tammy, and afterward 
pour it to the pieces of chicken. Set the curry to simmer gently over 
a slow fire until the pieces of chicken become tender, when the entr&e 
may be served as in the former case. 



MARINADE OF CHICKENS. 333 

985. FRITOT OF CHICKENS, WITH TOMATA SAUCE, ETC. 

The chickens must be cut up as for a fricassee, and the pieces neatly 
trimmed ; then place them in a basin with some slices of onion, parsley, 
bay-leaf, and thyme, mignionette pepper and a little salt, three table- 
spoonfuls of salad-oil, and the juice of a lemon ; steep them in this for 
several hours ; and when about to send to table, drain the pieces of 
chicken upon a cloth, shake some flour over them, so as to entirely 
cover the pieces with a coating of it, form them into shape, drop them 
into some hog's-lard made hot for the purpose, and fry them of a 
yellow color. When done, drain the pieces of chicken on a sieve, 
covered with paper, lay them upon a sautapan, and glaze them over 
slightly ; dish them up in a pyramidal form, garnish the entree round 
with a border of fried eggs and croutons of bread, placed alternately ; 
pour some Tomata or Poivrade sauce (Nos. 22 and 29) under the 
fritot, and serve. 

986. CAPILOTADE OF CHICKENS OR FOWLS, A L'lTALIENNE. 

This entree is mostly served when there happens to be roast fowl 
or poultry of any kind in reserve. This should be cut up into small 
joints neatly trimmed, and placed in a stewpan containing some 
Italian sauce (No. 12), and scollops of mushrooms and truffles; when 
about to send to table, allow the capilotade to simmer gently on a slow 
lire until the pieces of chicken have become thoroughly impregnated 
with the sauce : about ten minutes will suffice for this purpose. The 
entree may then be dished up, and garnished round with croutons of 
bread; pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

987. CHICKENS, A LA TOSCANE. 

Prepare these in the first instance as for a fritot, and after the 
pieces of chicken have been sufficiently steeped, drain them upon a 
cloth to absorb all the moisture from the exterior, rub each piece over 
separately with a paste-brush dipped in yolks of egg, and bread-crumb 
them upon this; they must then be dipped in, or sprinkled over with 
clarified butter, and again bread-crumbed upon this ; they should next 
be patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in order in 
a sautapan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before 
sending to table, fry the pieces of chicken of a fine yellow color, and 
when done, drain them upon a napkin, glaze them over lightly, and 
dish them up ; garnish with macaroni dressed with cheese, pour some 
essence of fowl under them, and serve. 

Note. — This dish may also be served without the macaroni, and is 
then called a la Viennoise • in which case some quenelles of potatoes 
may be added. 



MARINADE OF CHICKENS, FRIED IN BATTER. 

Roast one or more chickens or fowls ; when done, cut them into 
neatly-trimmed joints, and put these to steep for several hours in the 
following preparation : — Cut into thin slices a large onion, carrot, 
celery, parsley-root, a few green onions, some parsley, and a clove 
of garlic, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a 
bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, blade of mace, and four cloves; fry all these 
of a light-brown color, moisten with half a pint of Sherry, and an 



i 



334 ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

equal proportion of French vinegar, add a very little salt, and a pinch 
of mignionette pepper, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the 
vegetables are thoroughly done ; the marinade must then be strained 
through a tammy«with considerable pressure, in order to extract the 
flavor of all the ingredients. When about to send to table, drain 
the pieces of chicken in a napkin, and afterward dip them into some 
light batter, fry them in hog's-lard of a light color, made hot for the 
purpose, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve with 
some Italian, Piquante, Poivrade, Provengale, or Tomata sauce ; or 
some essence of anchovies (No. 116), of truffles (No. 168), of shalots 
(No. 167), or of fine-herbs (No. 170), in a boat separately. 



f 



ENTREES OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, 

COMPRISING 

Supreme of Fillets of Fowls, d VEcarlate. Fillets of Fowls, d VIndienne. 

„ „ d la Toulouse. „ d la Marichale. 

„ „ with Truffles, Ac. „ d la Valenqay. 

„ „ d la Parisihme. „ d la lloyale. 

„ „ with Cucumbers, „ d la Financit.re, Ac. 

d la Belle-vue. „ d la d'Uxelles. 
„ „ d la Pirigord. 

It should be observed that the whole of the following entrees are 
expensive ; with good management, however, much of the cost may be 
reduced, by subsequently using the^remains of the fowls here required 
in the preparation of a variety of other dishes ; such as those com- 
prised in the last section of entrees of poultry, and also for making 
galantines, ballotines, cutlets, croquettes, pies, &c. 

989. SUPREME OF FLLETS OF FOWLS, A L'ECARLATE. 

Take out the fillets of three or four young fowls, in the following 
manner : — First, slit the skin on the centre of the breast in a straight 
line, so that, by folding it down on both sides, the fillets will be left 
bare. Next, draw the point of a knife along the edge of the breast- 
bone, cut through the centre of the merry-thought, and then remove 
the fillets by dividing them from the breast and ribs, carefully running 
the point of a knife close to the bones, while the fillet is held up with 
the fingers of the left hand, so as to prevent the knife from injuring 
it. The fillets being thus removed entire, divide the minion fillets 
from the large ones, and after the sinew which runs along these has 
been carefully extracted without tearing them, they should be trimmed 
and placed in a small sautapan with some clarified butter, covered with 
a round piece of paper, and placed in the larder; the larger fillets must 
also be trimmed in the following manner: — Place the fillet upon the 
edge of the table, with the pointed end to -the right, and the smooth 
side downwards ; then bear moderately with the fingers of the left 
hand upon the pointed end of the fillet, and at the same time slip the 
edge of a sharp knife (dipped in water) into that part, and slide the 
knife under the hand, closely bearing toward the skin so as not to 
waste any more of the fillet than is positively necessary for the pur- 



FILLETS OF FOWLS. 335 

pose of removing it ; it must then be trimmed neatly round at the 
thick end, and nearly to a point at the thin end. The fillets should 
now be arranged, all in the same direction, in a sautapan with some 
clarified butter; then seasoned with a little salt, covered with a circu- 
lar piece of buttered paper, and placed with the others. It is neces- 
sary to observe that if the large fillets incline from right to left when 
placed in the sautapan, the minion fillets should be curved in the 
opposite direction : the latter may be decorated, or contises with truffles 
or tongue ; in which case they must be covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon. When about to send to table, place the sautapan containing 
the large fillets over a stove-fire, and as soon as they become set and 
whitened on one side, turn them over immediately on the other, and 
do not let them acquire any color ; then, quickly pour off all the 
butter, add a large spoonful of Supreme sauce (No. 38), and having 
tossed the fillets in it over the fire without allowing them to boil or 
simmer, dish them in a close circle with a round scollop of red tongue 
(previously warmed in a little half glaze for the purpose) between 
each of them ; fill the centre with scollops of button-mushrooms tossed 
in a little of the sauce, place the minion fillets, in a similar row to the 
others, upon the top of them ; pour some Supreme sauce round the 
entree, and upon each of the fillets, without masking the pieces of 
tongue, and serve. 

990. STJPKEME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA TOULOUSE. 

Prepare the large fillets as in the foregoing case, and when the 
smaller ones have been trimmed, lard them closely, and place them in 
a sautapan upon thin layers of fat bacon, in a curved form. A quarter 
of an hour before sending to table, finish the large fillets as in the fore- 
going case, substituting Allemande for Supreme sauce, and this should 
be incorporated with some reduced essence of fowls, a pat of butter, a 
little cream and lemon-juice. The larded fillets must be moistened with 
a little half-glaze, placed in the oven for about six minutes, and nicely 
glazed ; then, dish up the large fillets in a close circle with a croutons 
of bread, cut in the form of a deep crescent, fried in butter, and glazed ; 
fill the centre with a ragout of cock's-combs, truffles, mushrooms, small 
quenelles, and cock's-kernels, tossed in some of the sauce ; dress the 
larded fillets round the top of the others, pour some of the sauce round 
the entree, and serve. 

991. SUPEEME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Prepare this in the same way as in No. 989 ; decorate the small 
fillets with truffles, finish and dish up the entree as therein directed, 
and fill the centre with scollops of truffles tossed in a small stewpan 
with a little glaze, and a very small piece of fresh butter ; pour 
the Supreme sauce (No. 38) round the base, and on the fillets, and 
serve. 

992. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PARISIEJSHSTE. 

Trim eight Qr ten large fillets of fowls, and decorate them with 
black truffles, in the following manner : — First, spread the bottom of 
a sautapan large enough to contain the fillets, with fresh butter ; then 
place the fillets therein, all curved in the same direction, with the 
smooth side uppermost. Next, rub each fillet over slightly with a 



% 




336 ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

paste-brash, dipped in white of egg slightly beat up ; the truffles, after 
being first cut into thin scollops, and stamped out with tin fancy cut- 
ters in various forms, should then be stuck upon this prepared surface, 
according to taste, forming therewith stars, scrolls, palms, mosaics, 
&c. When all the fillets are decorated, run some clarified butter over 
them, in sufficient quantity to cover their surface ; place a cover- 
ing of buttered paper upon them, and set the sautapan aside in the 

larder. The minion fillets must also 
be decorated with red tongue, in the 
same way as the others. When 
about to send to table, simmer the 
fillets on both sides, carefully pre- 
venting them from becoming at all 
colored ; when done, drain them 
upon a napkin, and dish them up in 
a close circle, placing a fillet of red 
tongue between each of the large 
fillets; next place the minion fillet 
in a close border on the top of the 
inner edge of these, fill the centre 
with a ragout a la Parisienne (No. 203), pour some of the sauce round 
the base of the entree, without in auy way masking the decoration of 
the fillets, and serve. 

993. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS WITH CUCUMBERS, 

A LA BELLE-VUE. 

In this instance the fillets must be prepared and finished in exactly 
the same way as stated in No. 989=^ but when dishing them up, instead 
of the fillets of tongue, place between the fillets a scollop of cucumber, 
prepared as follows : — 

Cut two large well-shaped cucumbers into slanting scollops of about 
a quarter of an inch in thickness ; trim these neatly in an oval form, 
scooping out the seeds, and after having parboiled these oval rings, or 
links, in salt and water, drain them upon a napkin, and place them in 
order at the bottom of a sautapan previously spread with butter ; then 
proceed to fill up the centre of these with some quenelle force-meat of 
fowl, mixed with some chopped and parboiled parsley, to color it 
green ; smooth the surfaces over, place a circular piece of buttered 
paper upon them, and poach them by pouring some boiling comommr 
in at the side of the sautapan, so as not to disturb the rings. Let 
them simmer gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes, 
then be carefully drained upon a napkin, lightly glazed, and used as 
directed above. Fill the centre of the entree with prepared scollops 
of cucumbers (No. 138), previously tossed in some of the sauce; mask 
the fillets, without covering the links of cucumbers, with some Supreme 
sauce, aud serve. 

994. SUPREME OF FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA PERIGORD. 

Prepare this according to the directions for Supreyxe a VEcarlate 
(No. 989); the minion fillets, however, must be decorated with black 
truffle. When about to send to table, dish up the fillet as usual in a 
close circle round the base of a small ornamental crbustade of bread, 
previously fried of a light color, and stuck in the centre of the dish 



FILLETS OF FOWLS. 6'6 i 

by moans of a little flour-paste ; fill this crou?tade with some puree of 
truffles (Xo. 121), pour some Supreme sauce (Xo. 38) over the plain 
fillets, and round the base of the entree, and serve. 

995. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LTXDIEXXE. 

Trim the fillets of three young fowls, and form the minion fillets into 
three large ones, by patting them together ; when trimmed in shape, 
place them and the others in a sautapan, with some clarified butter, 
and a similar number of thin slices of raw ham ('previously soaked in 
water) cut in the shape and size of the fillets. When about to send to 
table, fry the fillets of fowls and the ham of a light-brown color, pour 
off all the grease, then add a spoonful of glaze, a pat of fresh butter, 
the juice of a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg ; toss the whole 
together gently over the stove-fire until mixed ; dish them up, alter- 
nately placing a fillet, a piece of ham, and then a fried crouton of bread, 
of the same shape. Pour some Etpagnole sauce (Xo. 3) and some 
small scollops of mangoes into the sautapan containing the fillets and 
ham, simmer this over the fire for five minutes, then pour it over the 
entree, and serve. 

996. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA MAEECHALE. 

Trim the fillets of three or four fowls, and with the minion fillets 
form three or four large ones; make a slight incision down the centre 
of each fillet, so as to hollow it out a little : this must be done on the 
rough side. Then, chop a truffle, one shalot, and a little parsley very 
line, and simmer these for five minutes in a small stewpan, with a bit 
of butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze, add the 
yolks of two eggs, and with this preparation fill the hollow made in 
the fillets, and then mask them over on both sides with a little stiffly- 
reduced Allemande sauce Xo. 7), when this has become firmly set 
upon them by cooling, bread-crumb the fillets twice over : having on.ee 
after dipped them in beaten eggs, and again after they have been 
sprinkled over with clarified butter ; put them gently into shape with 
the blade of a knife, and place them upon a dish in the larder. Twenty 
minutes before sending to table, cover the gridiron with a piece of 
oiled paper, place the fillets upon this, and broil them (on both sides) 
over a clear coke fire, of a bright-yellow color ; when they are done, 
glaze them lightly, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre 
with a white Toulouse ragout (Xo. 187), pour some reduced essence 
of fowls under them, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of fowls a la Mareehale may also be served with every 
kind of delicate vegetable garnish ; with white or brown Italian sauce ; 
with J fa recJiale, Supreme, Venetian, Proeencale, Periguevx, or Cray- 
fish sauce : and also with either of the following essences : — Anchovy, 
truffle, line-herbs, or shalot. 

997. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA YALEXCAY. 

Trim eight fillets of fowls, and lay them flat upon an earthen dish. 
Prepare a sufficient quantity of puree of truffles (Xo. 121), in which 
incorporate two yolks of eggs, and then spread this over the fillets on 
both sides ; when the coating has become firmly set by cooling, bread- 
crumb the fillets over twice : once with effir, and the second time, after 
21 



338 EXTREES OF FOWLS. 

being sprinkled over with clarified butter. Then, place the fillets in 
neat order in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; and when about 
to send to table, fry them of a light color on both sides, drain them 
upon a napkin, and then dish them up closely in a circle ; place the 
minion fillets (which should be decorated with truffle, and simmered in 
butter), in a row upon the top of the inner edge of the others ; fill the 
centre with scollops of truffles, previously simmered in a little glaze 
and a very small piece of butter ; pour some Supreme sauce (No. 38) 
under the entree, and serve. 

998. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA ROTALE. 

Trim the fillets of four fowls without removing the small fillets, then 
closely lard one-half of them, and decorate the other four with black 
truffle, in the same way as described for fillets a la Parsienne (No. 992); 
place these fillets in separate sautapans, the larded ones upon thin 
layers of fat bacon, and moistened with some half-glaze, and the deco- 
rated fillets covered with clarified butter. Just before sending to table, 
put both in the oven for about five minutes ; then withdraw the deco- 
rated fillets, glaze the larded ones, put them back for two minutes, and 
glaze them again. Dish them up, placing alternately a larded fillet 
with a decorated one ; fill the centre with a ragout of scollops of fat 
livers and truffles tossed in a little Allemande sauce (No. 7) ; pour 
some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. 

999. FILLETS OF FOWLS, A LA FUSTANCTERE. 

Cut out the fillets of four fowls, with the pinion-bones left adhering 
thereto, trim them in the usual way, and lard the whole of the fillet 
closely ; then place them iu order in a sautapan upon thin layers of 
fat bacon ; moisten with some strong consomme, and set them to braize 
in the oven, or else covered with a lid containing some live embers of 
charcoal : about ten minutes will suffice to do them ; they must next 
be glazed, and placed into the oven to dry the larding, and then glazed 
a second time. The fillets must then be dished up, and arranged in 
their natural order, that is, the right hand fillets to the right, and the 
left hand to the left. Fill the centre with a rich Financiere ragout 
(No. 181), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of fowls, larded and prepared as the foregoing, may 
also be served with purees of endive, green-peas, asparagus, a la Mace- 
doine ; with stewed peas, scollops of cucumbers, asparagus-peas, &c. 

1000. FILLETS OF FOWLS A LA D'UXELLES. 

Trim the fillets of three or four fowls, removing the minion fillets, 
which should be decorated with black truffles as described in No. 992, 
and afterwards placed in a sautapan with clarified butter. Cover the 
larger fillets with a coating of D'Uxelles sauce (No. 16), over which, 
when it has become firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, bread- 
crumb them twice ; once after dipping them in beaten eggs, and the 
second time after they have been sprinkled over with clarified butter. 
They must then be gently patted into shape with the blade of a knife, 
and placed in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Whon about to 
send to table, fry the fillets on both sides, of a bright-yellow color ; 



QUENELLES OF FOWL. 339 

then drain them upon a napkin, glaze lightly and dish them up in a 
close circle : place the decorated minion fillets in a row on the top of 
the inner edge of these, fill the centre with scollops of button-mush- 
rooms tossed in a little Allemande sauce (No. 7), pour some half-glaze 
under the fillets, and serve. 



ENTREES OF QUENELLE-FORCE-MEAT OF FOWL, 



COMPRISING 



Quenelles of Fowl, d F Essence. Boudins of Fowls d la d'Artois. 
" d la Toulouse. " d la Cardinal. 

" d In Jfarechale. " d la Sorbite. 

Boudins of Fowls, d la Richelieu. " d In Beine. 

" d la Perigueux. Bouchics d la Pompadour. 

" d la Sefton. 

1001. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A L'ESSENCE. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat (No. 242), with the fillets of two 
fowls, in which should be incorporated a spoonful of reduced Alle- 
mande sauce (No. 7) ; this should then be moulded into quenelles in 
the following manner : First, take up as much of the force-meat as will 
fill a silver table-spoon, then smooth it over the top in a dome-like 
form with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water ; next with another 
spoon of the same size and shape which must be dipped in hot water, 
scoop the quenelle out of the spoon, and lay it upon the under side at 
the bottom of a deep sautapan, previously spread with butter for the 
purpose ; repeat this until the whole of the force-meat that is meant 
for the entree be used up, and then place a covering of buttered paper 
over them, and pour sufficient boiling consomme in at the side of the 
sautapan to float the quenelles. About ten minutes' gentle simmering 
by the side of the stove-fire will suffice to do them ; they must then 
be drained with care upon a napkin, dished up in a close circle ; pour 
some bright consomme of fowl (boiled down to nearly the consistency 
of half-glaze) under them, and send to table. 

Note. — Quenelles of fowl prepared in this manner, may also be served 
with the following sauces : Supreme, Italienne, Perigueux, Allemande, 
Bechamel, Richelieu. 

1002. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A LA TOULOUSE. 

For this entree it will be necessary when about to mould the 
quenelles, first to shake some flour over a slab or table, and then to 
take up six spoonfuls of the force-meat and drop them separately 
upon the slab ; next shake a little flour over them, and proceed to 
roll each into the form of an egg ; these must then be placed in rows 
in a deep sautapan (previously spread with butter), about two 
inches distant from each other, and flattened to a quarter of an inch 
in thickness, by gently pressing them down with the fingers ; after 
which pour in some boiling broth, and set them by the side of the 
fire to poach. When the quenelles are done, drain them upon a nap- 
kin, trim them neatly, still retaining their oval shape, and place one 
half of them in a sautapan with a little white consomme ; bread-crumb 



340 QUENELLES OF FOWL. 

the remainder, first masking them over with a coating of Allemande 
sauce. When about to send to table fry the bread-crumbed quenelles 
of a light color, iu hog's-lard heated for the purpose, and having 
warmed the plain ones, and drained them upon a napkin, dish up the 
entree, alternately placing one of each sort of quenelle ; fill the centre 
with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), pour some of the sauce round 
the base and serve. 

1003. QUENELLES OF FOWL, A LA MAEECHALE. 

Prepare the quenelles as in the foregoing case ; shape them in the 
form of cutlets, oval, oblong, circular, or like a heart ; taking care 
not to make them more than a quarter of an inch thick. When they 
have been poached and trimmed, place them upon a dish, and mask 
them over with some Allemande sauce ; when this has become firmly 
set upon the quenelles by cooling, bread-crumb them over twice in the 
usual way : once with egg, and the second time, after they have been 
sprinkled over, with clarified butter. They must then be broiled 
upon oiled paper, and when done of a light color on the one side, 
great care must be used in turning them over, to be equally broiled 
on the other. When done, dish them up in a close circle, fill the 
centre, either with scollops of truffles, mushrooms, fat livers, cock's- 
corabs, and kernels; with Allemande or Supreme sauce, or with essence 
of fowl, and serve. 

1004. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA EICHELIEU. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of two fowls, in 
the usual manner (No. 242), form this into a dozen flat oblong que- 
nelles, and poach them delicately in broth, as directed in the foregoing 
cases ; when this is done, drain them upon a napkin, and after making 
an opening on the surface to the extent of two inches long, by one 
inch wide, and then carefully scooping out the inside of the quenelles 
to the depth of two-thirds of their thickness, fill this cavity with the 
following preparation : cut a large onion into very small dice, aud fry 
these in a small stewpan with a little butter, of a light-yellow color ; 
then add an equal proportion of truffles, also cut into very small dice 
and some mushrooms in the same manner ; next, add a spoonful of 
Allemande sauce (No. 7), a little nutmeg, mignionette pepper, and a 
small piece of glaze ; stir the whole over the fire for about five minutes, and 
then use it as directed above. When the preparation with which the 
quenelles have been filled up has cooled, spread a layer of force-meat 
over the entire service of each ; then place them in a sautapan pre- 
viously spread with butter to receive them, rub them over carefully 
with a paste-brush dipped in white of egg and decorate them with 
truffle and tongue. When about to send to table, poach the boudins 
by pouring some boiling consomme on them, taking care not to disturb 
the decoration; when they have been allowed to simmer gently by 
the side of a stove-fire for about ten minutes, drain them upou a 
napkin, glaze them lightly, and dish them up in a close circle ; pour 
some Richelieu ragout (No. 207) under them and serve. 

Note. — This entree may also be served with a puree of mushrooms, 
truffles, or with scollops of fat livers. 



BOUDINS OF FOWL. 341 

1005. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA PEKIGUEUX. 

These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same manner 
as the foregoing : after the centre has been scooped out, the cavity of 
these should be filled up with some puree of truffles (No. 121) ; then, 
the boudins must be closed in with a thin coating of the force-meat, 
and after being rubbed over with a paste-brush, and dipped in some 
beaten white of egg, should be sprinkled over with black truffles, 
chopped very fine, and must be poached and afterward dished up in 
a close circle. Pour some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) under them, 
and serve. 

1006. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA SEFTON. 

Prepare the force-meat in the usual way, and before using it, 
incorporate therewith about two table-spoonfuls of puree of mush- 
rooms (No. 122) ; then divide the force-meat into three equal parts, 
roll these, with the aid of a little flour shaken over them, into square 
oblong shapes,* measuring about six inches in length ; place these in 
a deep sautapan, previously spread with butter to receive them, and 
poach them as directed in former cases ; when done, drain them upon 
a napkin, dish them up in the form of an angle, or in a row, side by 
side ; place two minion fillets that have been larded and glazed across 
the ends of each, garnish with a white Financiere ragout (No. 188), 
and serve. 

1007. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA D'AETOIS. 

Prepare about twelve small oval or oblong flat quenelles of force- 
meat of fowls, and when they have been poached, drained, trimmed, 
and then scooped out as directed for the quenelles a la Marechale, fill 
the cavities with a salpicorf\ composed of truffles, mushrooms, and red 
tongue mixed with a little reduced Allemande sauce ; spread a thin 
layer of force-meat over the surface, bread-crumb the boudins care- 
fully, and place them with this side uppermost in a sautapan with 
clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the boudins of a 
light color, on both sides, drain them upon a sheet of paper and glaze 
them lightly, and then dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre 
with a Financiere ragout (No. 188) in some Madeira sauce (No. 8), 
pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 

1008. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA SOUBISE. 

First, prepare some force-meat with the fillets, of two fowls (No. 
242), and in finishing this, instead of sauce, add two table-spoonfuls 
of puree of onions (No. 119) ; form this force-meat into about sixteen 
small oblong quenelles, by rolling them upon the table or slab with a 
little flour : then cut each of these in two, lengthwise, spread out the 

• There are fancy copper or tin moulds made for this purpose, and may be had at all 
braziers' shops. Previously to filling the moulds with the force-meat, they must be care- 
fully and thinly spread with butter. These must be merely steamed in water, in the 
same manner as a pudding, and, when done, turned out of the moulds, and finished as 
directed for the others. 

f Snlpicon means, literally, anything savory, such as truffles, tongue, mushrooms, 
sweetbreads poultry, or game, that has undergone the process of mincing, preparatory 
to being mixed with some Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole sauce ; to be afterward 
used for such purposes as the above, and also for garnishing patties with. 



342 BOUCHEES OF FOWL. 

sides of these halves a little with the point of a small knife, and then 
insert between them a small portion of salpicon, prepared as for the 
boudins a la d'Artois ; this, after being spread out to the thickness of 
rather less than a quarter of an inch, and allowed to become cold and 
firm, must then be cut up into small strips, or bands, for the purpose of 
being inserted in between two halves of the quenelles or boudin ; the 
sides of these should then be securely closed in, and patted smooth all 
over with the blade of a knife dipped in flour, and are then to be 
placed in a sautapan, previously spread with butter to receive them. 
Pour some boiling broth to the boudins, and poach them in the usual 
way ; then drain, trim, and bread-crumb them with beaten egg, and 
place them carefully in a sautapan with some clarified butter. When 
about to send to table, fry the boudins of a light color, glaze them 
lightly, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with some Soubise 
sauce (No. 119), pour some half-glaze or essence of fowls, under the 
entree, and serve. 

1009. BOUDINS OF FOWL, A LA REIXE. 

Roast two fowls, remove all the brown skin, cut off all the meat 
from the bones, and use the latter to make some essence with. Chop 
the meat fine, and then pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and 
a large spoonful of reduced Bechamel sauce ; season with a little pepper 
and salt and grated nutmeg, and rub the whole through a very fine 
wire-sieve, or tammy cloth ; then put this puree into a small stewpan, 
and after adding thereto half a gill of scalded double-cream, and a piece 
of glaze as big as a walnut, stir it over the fire until the whole is 
mixed, and spread this preparation on a dish, in a square form about 
two inches in thickness, and set tt in the larder to become cold. 
Then, cut the square into two oblong pieces, and divide these again, 
each into about eight small oblong slices, about three inches long by 
two in width, and a quarter of an inch thick. Spread each of these 
over with a thin coating of some very delicate force-meat of fowl ; 
flour them over, then dip them separately in some beaten egg, bread- 
crumb them, and set them on a dish in the larder until dinner-time. 
The boudins mnst then be placed upon the wire drainer of a frying 
pan, and immersed in some clean hog's-lard made quite hot for the 
purpose, and fried of a light-fawn color ; they should be drained, and 
dished up in a close circle, with some Bechamel or Supreme sauce 
poured under them, and then sent to table. 

1010. BOUCHEES OF FOWL, A LA POMPADOUR 

Prepare some very delicate force-meat with the fillets of two 
fowls ; when finished, incorporate therewith two spoonfuls of puree of 
mushrooms, made with double cream (No. 122). Form this into 
about sixteen small oval, or circular flat quenelles, or boudins^ about a 
third of an inch in thickness ; place them in a buttered sautapan, and 
poach them delicately : that is, let them be only two parts done ; drain 
them upon a napkin, then place them on a dish, covered over with a 
sheet of buttered paper, and put them in the larder until dinner-time. 
The bouchees should then be dipped in some very light batter, mixed 
with whipped cream, instead of water, and fried in plenty of clean 
hog's-lard, made hot for the purpose ; they must then be dished up in 
circular order, and the centre filled either with stewed peas, asparagus- 



ENTREES OF FOWLS. 343 

peas, or puree, a Macedoine of summer vegetables, Poivrade, or 
Tomata sauce. If garnished with dressed vegetables, some essence of 
fowl should be poured round the base of the entree. 



ENTREES OF FOWLS OR CHICKENS, 



COMPRISING 



Galantines of Legs of Fowl, d la Financiere. Minced Fowl, with Rice. 

„ „ d la Jardiniere. Scollops of ditto, an gratiu. 

Minced and Grilled Fowl. Kromeskys of Fowl, a la Russe. 

Minced Chicken, and Poached Eggs. Croquettes of Fowl, with Mushrooms, &e. 

Minced Fowl, with Macaroni. Mince, or Salpicon, for Patties. 

1011. GALANTINES OF LEGS OF FOWLS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

The legs must be carved from the carcasses of the fowls with the 
whole of the skin from the back left adhering thereto ; then bone 
these entirely without dividing the leg, or, as it is commonly called, 
the drum-stick part. The feet should be cut with part of the leg-bones 
left on, scalded, and the outer skin carefully removed, without tearing 
them ; trim these neatly, leaving only part of the claws in, and stick 
them into the small aperture of the legs, whence the drum-stick bones 
have been removed : when properly done, this gives them a neat and 
plump appearance. They must then be spread out upon the table, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and about a dessert-spoonful of force- 
meat, in which has been mixed some fine-herbs, placed in the centre ; 
a large needle and some coarse thread should be used to draw the 
skinny part of the legs up into a purse, and must then be fastened to 
secure them in shape. The galantines must next be larded closely on 
the plump part of the thigh, in the same manner as a sweetbread, and 
then placed in a deep sautapan, the bottom of which should be strewn 
with sliced carrot, onion and celery, and a garnished faggot of parsley, 
and covered with some thin layers of fat bacon, upon which the 
galantines are to be placed. Moisten with sufficient consomme or broth 
to reach nearly up to the larding : place a buttered paper on the top, 
cover with the lid containing some live embers of charcoal, and set 
them to braize gently for about half an hour over a moderate stove- 
fire, or else in the oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. 
When they are done, remove the lid and the paper, and put them in 
the oven for a couple of minutes to dry the larding ; then glaze them 
nicely, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle 
similarly to cutlets; fill the centre with a Financiere ragout (No. 188), 
pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Galantines dressed in this manner may also be served with 
endive, sorrel, puree of green-peas or asparagus, stewed peas, or a la 
Macedoine. 

1012. GALANTINES OF LEGS OF FOWLS, A LA JARDINIERE. 

In this case, the legs of the fowls should be entirely laid open with 
the knife, and all the bones removed; they must then be spread out 
upon the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of 
force-meat, mixed with fine-herbs, placed in the centre of each ; then 



344 ENTREES OF FOWLS. 

sew them up in an oblong or oval form, and place them in a stewpan 
on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of 
fat bacon, and braized as directed in the foregoing case. When the 
galantines are done, put them in press between two dishes until they 
become cold ; they should then be trimmed and placed in a sautapan 
with a little consomme covered with a buttered paper. When about to 
send to table, put the galantines in the oven to simmer gently for a 
quarter of an hour ; then glaze and dish them up in a close circle, 
with a braized lettuce, nicely trimmed (No. 164), placed in between 
each ; fill the centre with a Jardiniere (No. 144), pour some half-glaze 
or Espagnole sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

1013. MINCED AND GRILLED FOWL. 

Cut off the legs of a roast fowl, trim and score them over on both 
sides, and season them with pepper and salt ; then cut the meat off the 
breast, &c, into fine shreds, and put this into a small stewpan, with 
a little Bechamel sauce (Xo. 5). When about to send to table, broil 
the legs of a fowl over a clear fire, glaze them, and having previously 
warmed the mince, pour it out into the centre of the dish, place the 
legs upon it, and serve. 

1014. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Trim the legs and cut up the mince as in the foregoing case. Next, 
put an ounce of fresh butter into a small stewpan over the fire to melt, 
incorporate therewith a spoonful of flour, and stir these together for 
two minutes ; then add about a gill of broth, and the same proportion 
of cream ; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and a small 
piece of glaze : stir this sauce on^ the stove, keep it boiling for ten 
minutes, and then add it to the minced chicken. In all other respects, 
serve this entree in the same way as the foregoing. 

1015. MINCED CHICKEN, AND POACHED EGGS. 
Cut up all the white meat of a roast or boiled fowl into mince or 
shreds, and put these into a small stewpan with a gravy-spoonful of 
good Bechamel sauce ; when about to send to table, warm the mince, 
dish it up, and place the poached eggs round it with a scollop of glazed 
tongue or of ham, and a fried crouton of bread in between each egg ; 
pour a little white sauce round the entree, and serve. 

1016. MINCED CHICKEN, WITH MACARONI. 
In this case prepare the chicken or fowl in small thin scollops, and 
add to them some Bechamel: when about to dish them np, first, place 
some macaroni (dressed with grated Parmesan cheese and a spoonful 
of -Bechamel sauce) round the bottom of the dish in the form of a bor- 
der, and put the mince in the centre piled up like a cone ; pour a little 
white sauce round the entree, and serve. 

1017. MINCED CHICKEN, WITH RICE. 
Prepare the mince as directed in the foregoing instance. Put six 
ounces of Carolina rice, after it has been well washed, into a stewpan 
with a pat of butter and a pint of broth, a little salt and mignionette 
pepper : set the lid on and place it over a slow fire to boil very gently 
until the grains are become quite soft, and all the moisture is ab- 
sorbed ; then add the yolks of two eggs and a spoonful of saure ; 



KROMESKYS OF FOWL. 345 

work the rice with a wooden spoon, then fill a circular border mould 
(previously buttered inside) with it, and turn it out upon its dish ; fill 
the centre of this with the mince, and serve. 

1018. MINCE, OR SCOLLOPS, OF FOWL AU GRATIN. 
Cut the meat off the breast and other white parts of a roast or 
boiled fowl, either into shreds or scollops ; put these into a small 
stewpan with some Allemande sauce (No. 12), about a table-spoonful 
of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, a small 
piece of glaze, and half a gill of cream ; toss the whole together over 
the fire until well mixed, and then place the scollops in the dish, piled 
up in a dome ; cover this entirely with a coating of fried bread-crumbs 
mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, in the proportion of two-thirds 
of the former with one-third of the latter; sprinkle a very little clari- 
fied butter over the surface, place round the entree a border of neatly 
cut fancy croutons of bread, of jleurons, of croquettes of rice, or of 
potatoes (previously fried), and then put it into the oven for about 
ten minutes, taking care that it does not get burnt. Next pour some 
Bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

1019. KROMESKYS, A LA RUSSE 
Ctjt the fillets of a roast fowl into very small neat dice, and put 
them on a plate with half their quantity of mushrooms and truffles, 
also cut into small dice. Stir the Bechamel or Allemande sauce over 
the fire until stiffly reduced, and then throw in the minced chicken, 
&c, mix the whole well together, to spread it out upon a dish about 
an inch thick, and put it to cool in the larder. Next, cut this prepa- 
ration into small pieces somewhat in the form of a common cork, and 
place them on an earthen dish. A calf's udder, previously braized for 
the purpose, must be cut, when cold, into very thin layers, just large 
enough to wrap one of the Kromeskys round with ; they must then be 
dipped in some light batter, and fried crisp in plenty of hog's-lard 
made hot for the purpose. Dish them up with fried parsley in the 
centre and round the base, and serve them the moment they are 
done. 

1020. CROQUETTES OF FOWL AND MUSHROOMS. 

The mince for these is prepared in the same way as for Kromeskys, 
and when it has become cold, must be cut up in pieces about the size 
of a plover's egg, and rolled with a little bread-crumb, either in the 
form of corks, pears, or very small cutlets ; they must next be dipped 
in beaten eggs and bread-crumbed a second time ; roll them smooth, 
and if they have been shaped like pears, a stalk of green parsley 
should be stuck into each to imitate the stalk of pears. Just before 
sending to table, fry the croquettes of a light color in hog's-lard made 
quite hot for the purpose, dish them up on a napkin with fried parsley, 
and serve. 

1021. MINCE, OR SALPICON FOR PATTIES. 

Cut the fillets of a roast fowl into small dice, then take two dozen 
mushrooms, one truffle, and a small piece of red tongue, and cut these 
also in a similar way ; mix all these with the fowl, add enough sauce, 
either Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole, and use this for garnish- 
ing patties, or croustades. 



346 



ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKLINGS, 

COMPRISING 

Pigeons, d la Gauthier. Fillets of Pigeons, a la Borghese. 

„ d la Crapaudine. „ d la Bourgnignotte. 

„ d la Bucheate. „ d VAllemande. 

„ d la Seville. Ducklings, d la Boue'iinnise. 

„ an gratin, in a case. „ stewed with Olives. 

„ d la Maintenon. „ with stewed Peas. 

Compote of Pigeons, with Mushrooms. Fillets of Ducklings, d la Bigarrade. 
„ with Peas. „ d la Macedoine. 

Fillets of Pigeons, d la Villeroi. Salmis of Fillets of Ducklings. 

1022. PIGEONS, A LA GAUTHIER. 
Procure four young fat pigeons, draw, singe, and truss them with 
their legs thrust inside. Next, put a half pound of fresh butter into 
a small stewpan with the juice of a lemon, a little mignionette pepper, 
and salt ; place this over a stove-fire, and when it is melted, put the 
pigeons, with a garnished faggot of parsley, in it, cover the whole with 
thin layers of fat bacon and a circular piece of buttered paper, and 
Bet them to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty min- 
utes, when they will be done. The pigeons must then be drained upon 
a napkin, and after all the greasy moisture has been absorbed, place 
them in the dish in the form of a square, with a large quenelle of fowl 
(decorated with truffles) in between each pigeon ; fill the centre with 
a ragout of crayfish-tails (No. 196), pour some of the sauce over and 
round the pigeons, and serve 

1023. PIGEONS, A LA CRAPAUDINE. 
After the pigeons have been cut in halves, lengthwise through the 
breast, flatten each of these with a cutlet-bat, and then remove the 
bones from the breasts and legs; season with pepper and salt, and 
simmer them in a sautapan with some clarified butter over the fire 
until they become partly set ; they must then be put in press betwwen 
two dishes, and when they have become cold, should be bread-crumbed 
twice : first after being dipped in the beaten egg, and the second time 
in clarified butter. When about to send to table, broil the pigeons 
of a light color over a clear fire ; then glaze them lightly, and dish 
them up, pour some Poivrade sauce (No. 29), to which must be added 
some chopped and parboiled shalots and parsley, and serve. 

1024. PIGEONS, A LA DUCHESSE. 
Remove the bones entirely from six very young pigeons ; stuff 
them with some quenelle force-meat of veal mixed with a spoonful of 
sauce and some chopped mushrooms ; sew them up neatly so as to 
give them an appearance of plumpness ; put them in a stewpan with 
Borne white poele (No. 230), and braize them very gently over a slow 
fire for about twenty minutes ; the pigeons must next be removed on 
to a dish and allowed to become partially cold ; they should then be 
covered all over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce (No. 
7), and when this is become set upou them by cooling, roll them first 



PIGEONS, ETC. 347 

in bread-crumbs, then clip them in beaten egg and bread-crumb thorn 
over again, and place them on a dish in the larder. About twenty 
minutes before dinner-time, place the pigeons carefully upon the wire 
lining of a frying-pan, and immerse them in plenty of clean hog's-lard, 
made quite hot for the. purpose; as soon as they have acquired a light- 
brown color, remove them from the frying-pan on to a napkin to 
absorb any grease. Then pile up some Jlacedoine of vegetables (Xo. 
143) in the centre of the dish, place the pigeons round this in circular 
order, with the breasts resting on the bottom of the dish ; put a 
decorated fillet of chicken in betwen each pigeon, surmount the 
entree with a group of nicely-turned small vegetables, pour some 
Allen i a rule or Bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

1025. PIGEOXS, A LA SEVILLE. 

Tuk.se are prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as the 
foregoing, excepting that they must be braized in some wine ralrepoix 
(No. 23G), and they should be also covered with thin layers of fat 
bacon, and only moistened half their depth ; braize them gently for 
about twenty minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor. 
When the pigeons are done, drain them upon a napkin, remove the 
strings, and dish them up with their backs resting up against a small 
crou.itadc of fried bread, previously made fast on the bottom of the 
dish; garnish with a Spanish ragout, place a large crayfish between 
each pigeon, and a decorated minion fillet of fowl upon their breasts, 
surmount the whole with a small larded sweetbread, and serve. The 
roymt above alluded to consists of small truffles, carrots, pieces of ham, 
mushrooms, and a few boiled garbancas, or yellow peas; these must be 
first slightly fried in a little oil, and a spoonful of Tomata sauce, a 
glass of Malaga or Madeira, with a pinch of the powder of the sweet 
red Pimento, and a piece of glaze added ; simmer the whole together 
over a slow fire until the carrots are done; then skim off all the 
grease, add a small ladleful of finished Expagnole sauce (Xo. 3), and 
two dozen cloves of garlic, previously boiled in water; the ragout must 
be allowed to boil gently by the side of the stove for live minutes 
longer; then, after it has been skimmed, add the juice oil half a lemon 
and use it as directed. 

1026. PIGEOXS, AU GRATIX, IX A CASE. 

Remove all the bones from six young pigeons, then make some 
force-meat of fat livers (Xo. 249), and stuff the pigeons with this; 
they must next be trussed and gently braized for about a quarter of 
an hour in a small quantity of moistening, after this removed on to a 
dish and placed in the larder to become cold. Make a circular case of 
stout paper, oil it over, and place it in the oven for a few minutes to 
make it firm ; line this case with some of the force-meat, and place the 
pigeons in it in neat order; fill up the cavities with the remainder of 
the force-meat, cover them over with very thin layers of fat bacon, and 
then set the case in the oven to be baked for about half an hour. The 
bacon must then be removed, and all the grease absorbed by gently 
pressing a clean napkin upon it, and put on its dish. Place some 
scollops of mushrooms and truffles, simmered wtth a spoonful of fine- 
herbs on the top, pour some brown Italian sauce (Xo. 12; over the 
entree, and serve. 



348 ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 

1027. PIGEONS, A LA MAINTENON. 
Split four young pigeons lengthwise, flatten and bone them, and 
then season with pepper and salt ; fry them in a sautapan with a little 
butter, some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots, and when 
this is done, add a large spoonful of Allemande sauce, a little essence 
of mushrooms, grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice ; simmer the whole 
together for five minutes, and allow them partially to cool. Next, 
trim off the corners from as many sheets of note-paper as there are 
pieces of pigeon, and after the paper has been oiled over with a paste- 
brush, place the pigeons in them — dividing the sauce equally ; twist 
the edges of the paper neatly and firmly, so as to secure the sauce from 
oozing out, and broil them over a very moderate fire ; dish them up in 
close circular order upon a napkin, and send to table with some brown 
Italian sauce (No. 12), separately in a boat. 

1028. COMPOTE OP PIGEONS, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Truss and then braize four pigeons with three quarters of a pound 
of streaky bacon. Peel half a pint of button onions, and after they 
have been parboiled in water, drain and fry them in a little butter over 
a very slow fire without allowing them to acquire any color ; they 
must then be drained upon a sieve, and afterward placed in a small 
stewpan with half a pottle of mushrooms, and the bacon cut up in 
square dice. With the broth from the pigeons, make enough brown 
sauce for the entree, and as soon as it has been sufficiently worked, add 
this as well as a glass of white wine to the onions, &c, and set the 
whole to boil very gently by the side of a stove-fire for about ten min- 
utes : then skim off the grease, and place this ragout in a stewpan with 
the pigeons. When about to send to table, make the compote of 
pigeons hot, dish up the pigeons with a crouton of fried bread between 
each, put the pieces of bacon in the cavities formed between the 
pigeons, group the mushrooms and onions in the centre, pour the sauce 
over the entree, and serve. 

1029. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS, WITH PEAS. 

Truss the pigeons as for boiling. Parboil three quarters of a pound 
of streaky bacon in water for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into 
rather large dice-shaped pieces ; put these into a middle-sized stew- 
pan and fry them of a light color over a stove-fire, remove these on 
to a plate, and then throw in the pigeons and fry them also, until they 
acquire a light-brown color, and place them with the bacon. Next, 
add two table-spoonfuls of flour to the fat in the stewpan, and stir 
this roux over the fire until it acquires a light color, then gradually 
mix in with it a quart of broth ; stir the sauce over the fire until it 
boils, add the pigeons, bacon, a quart of green-peas, a faggot of parsley, 
and green onions, and a little mignionette pepper, and keep the eomi>, t>>. 
gently boiling by the side of a stove-fire for about three quarters of an 
hour ; then skim off all the grease, and remove the faggot, and if the 
sauce is not sufficiently reduced, place the pigeons in another stewpan, 
and with a colander-spoon remove the peas and bacon also ; allow the 
sauce to boil briskly on the fire, stirring it the while, until reduced to 
its proper consistency, and then pour it to the compote. When about 
to send to table, make the compote quite hot, and dish it up in the 
same way as the foregoing. 



FILLETS OF PIGEONS. 349 

1030. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Braize the pigeons together with a piece of streaky bacon (after it 
has been parboiied) ; when these are done, prepare a quart of young 
peas for stewing in the usual way, to which add about half a pint of 
the liquor from the pigeons to moisten and flavor them with, and when 
these have been stewed, and all their moisture boiled down to a glaze, 
thicken them by adding two ounces of fresh butter kneaded with 
a dessert-spoonful of flour ; cut the bacon into fluted oval scollops, 
dish up the pigeons, first placing some of the peas in the centre of the 
dish to support them upright, then place the scollops of bacon in rows 
between the pigeons, or round them, pile the peas up in the centre ; 
pour some bright Espagnole sauce, worked with some of the liquor 
from the pigeons, round the entree, glaze the pigeons and the bacon, 
and serve. 

1031. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA VILLEROI. 

Fillet six pigeons, remove the thin skin from them, and also the 
sinew from the under fillet, which must, however, be left adhering to 
the upper ; flatten them slightly with a small bat, or the handle of a 
knife, dipped in water, and trim them ; they must then be covered en- 
tirely with a coating of D'Uxelles sauce (No. 16), and when this has 
become firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, they should be bread- 
crumbed twice ; once, after being dipped in beaten egg, and then after 
being dipped in clarified butter. Use the bones from the legs to imi- 
tate the bones of cutlets ; and place the fillets carefully in a sauta-pan 
lined with clarified butter. Just before sending to table, fry the fillets 
of a light color on both sides, drain them on paper, glaze them lightly 
and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a Macedoine of 
vegetables, asparagus-peas, French beans, or stewed peas ; pour some 
bright half-glaze (made from the carcasses of the pigeons) round the 
entree, and serve. 

1032. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A LA BORGHESE. 

Trim the fillets, insert the cutlet-bone in each, as in the foregoing 
case, and put them on an earthen dish : next, bone the carcasses of the 
pigeons, and remove the skin and sinews from the flesh, and with this 
make some quenelle force-meat (No. 244). Season the fillets of 
pigeons with a little pepper and salt, and neatly mask them over with 
a coating of the force-meat, thus increasing their size about one-half; 
cover the bottom of a sauta-pan with some clarified butter, about one- 
eighth of an inch thick, and having allowed this to become quite cold, 
put in the fillets thus prepared in circular rows, and cover them with 
some clarified butter, which, however, should not be poured over them 
until it has become nearly cold. About a quarter of an hour before 
sending to table, place a sauta-pan containing the fillets upon a rather 
brisk fire, and allow them to simmer quickly ; and when they are done 
on both sides, drain them upon a napkin, and glaze them brightly ; 
dish them up in close circular order, in the same way as cutlets, fill the 
centre with scollops of truffles, previously tossed over the fire with a 
small piece of glaze, half a pat of fresh butter, and a spoonful of sauce ; 
pour some Madeira sauce (No. 8) round the base of the entree, and 
6erve. 



350 ENTREES OF PIGEONS. 

1033. FILLET3 OP PIGEONS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and when about to 
send to table, simmer them briskly over a stove-fire, and when done, 
drain, glaze, and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a 
ragout & la Bourguignotte (No. 195), pour some of the sauce round 
the entree, and serve. 

1034. FILLETS OF PIGEONS, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Prepare these in all respects according to the foregoing directions, 
and when the fillets have briskly simmered over a sharp fire, so as to 
become firmly set before they are more than half done, they must be im- 
mediately removed from the sauta-pan on an earthen dish, and after 
being separately dipped in some light-made batter, mixed with good 
cream, should be fried crisp in plenty of clean hog's-lard, made quite 
hot for the purpose ; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish 
them up in a close, circle ; fill the centre with a puree of green peas, 
artichokes, or asparagus, with either a Jardiniere, or Macedoine, stewed 
peas, or dressed young Windsor beans ; pour some bright half-glaze 
(made from the carcasses) under the entree, and serve. 

1035. DUCKLINGS, A LA ROUENNAISE. 

Truss two fat ducklings for boiling, put them in a stewpan, with 
about three-quarters of a pound of streaky bacon (previously parboiled), 
a carrot, an onion, and a garnished faggot of parsley, and cover them 
with thin layers of fat bacon and a round of buttered paper; moisten 
with a quart of white broth, and then set them to braize gently for 
about three-quarters of an houY Cut a bunch of young turnips 
into the shape of large olives, or half-moons, and fry these in a 
stewpan with two ounces of clarified butter, and a dessert-spoonful 
of pounded sugar, over the fire, until they acquire a deep yellow 
color; then strain off the butter, and put the turnips into a smaller 
stewpan containing sufficient bright Espagnole sauce (No. 3) for the 
entree ; add a little of the liquor from the ducks to flavor them, and 
set them to boil gently by the side of a stove-fire until they are done, 
at the same time attending to the reduction of the sauce to its proper 
consistency. When about to send to table, the ducks may either be 
served whole, or cut up into small joints and neatly trimmed ; pile these 
in the same manner as for a fricassee, keeping the fillets and breasts for 
the top ; garnish the entree with the turnips, place a border of scollops 
of streaky bacon round the base, pour the sauce over the ducks, aud 
serve. 

1036. DUCKLINGS, STEWED WITH OLIVES. 

Prepare these as in the foregoing case, and when done, cut each up 
into neatly-trimmed small joints, consisting of two legs, and two fillets 
with the pinions left on them ; then cut the breast into two pieces, and 
also the back ; clarify the liquor, and after it has been reduced by boil- 
ing to half-glaze, warm the pieces of ducklings in it, and dish them up 
as before directed ; garnish the entree with a ragout of olives, place 
the scollops of streaky bacon round the entree, pour the sauce over the 
ducklings, and serve. 



FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS. 351 

1037. DUCKLINGS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Prepare these as directed in the foregoing cases. Stew a quart of 
young peas (No. 146), and finish them with a little of the glaze made 
from the liquor in which the ducklings have been braized ; the mem- 
bers or small joints of the ducklings must also be warmed in some of 
the same glaze, and dished up in a pile upon some of the stewed peas ; 
garnish the base of the entree with the remainder ; place a row of 
scollops of the streaky bacon upon these, pour some bright Espagnole 
sauce (No. 3) over the entree, and serve. 

1038. FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS, A LA BIGARRADE. 

Draw and singe these, and pick out any remaining stubble-feathers 
on the ducklings ; then separate the breast from the legs and backs, 
by running the knife in just above the thighs and cutting through the 
upper part of the back under the wings ; roast the backs and use 
them for making the Bigarrade sauce with (No. 33). Place the breasts 
in a deep earthen dish, season with a little mignionette pepper, salt, 
parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, three table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and 'the 
juice of a lemon, and allow them to steep in this for several hours ; 
about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, run a large iron skewer 
through the breasts of the ducklings, and tie them on a spit, then place 
the whole of the seasoning upon them, wrap them up with a large 
sheet of .oiled paper, and set them before the fire for about twenty 
minutes : at the end of that time, remove the paper and seasoning, 
and allow the ducklings to acquire a bright color ; then remove them 
from the spit, observing that they should be done with the gravy in 
them. The fillets must then be taken out, slightly trimmed and scored, 
and placed in a sautapan with a little half-glaze or some of the sauce, 
and allowed barely to simmer over a stove-fire to warm ; they should 
then be dished up in a close circle with a fried crouton of bread in be- 
tween each fillet ; pour the Bigarrade sauce over the entree, and serve. 

1039. FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS, A LA MACEDOINE. 
These must be prepared in the same manner as the foregoing; 

when the fillets are trimmed, place them in a sautapan with some half- 
glaze made from the carcasses, and when about to send to table, warm 
them without allowing them to boil, as that would make them tough ; 
dish them up in a close circle with a crouton of fried bread in between 
each fillet, fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (No. 143), 
pour some bright half-glaze round the base, and serve. 

1040. SALMIS OF FILLETS OF DUCKLINGS. 
Prepare the breasts of the ducklings, and roast them off in the 
manner directed for those a la Bigarrade ; cut them out, trim and score 
them, and place them in a sautapan with a little half-glaze. Next, 
roast the legs of a light-brown color, and when done, break them up, 
and put them into a stewpan with four shalots, a handful of parsley, a 
dozen pepper-corns, some mushroom trimmings, a bay-leaf, and sprig 
of thyme ; moisten with a pint of Claret or Sauterne wine, and set 
this to boil very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; 
then, strain it off through a sieve, add this extract or essence to an 
equal proportion of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), and work it in the 
ordinary manner : when it has been cleared by gentle ebullition, and 



352 ENTREES OF QUAILS. 

afterward reduced by boiling to its proper consistency, strain it 
through a tammy into a bain-marie. When about to send to table, 
warm the fillets carefully, dish them up as in the former cases, fill the 
centre with scollops of truffles and mushrooms, pour the sauce over the 
entree, and serve. 

Note. — In addition to the foregoing methods for dressing ducklings 
for entrees, they may also, if intended to be served whole, be treated 
according to the directions for dressing ducks for removes and flanks ; 
for which, see those articles. 



ENTREES OF QUAILS, 



COMPRISING 



Quails, with stewed Peas. Cutlets of Quails, d la Bordelaise. 

„ d la Perigueux. Fillets of Quails, d la Talleyrand. 

„ d la Financiere. „ d la Parisie'itne. 

„ d la Royale. Scollops of Quails, with Truffles. 
Cutlets of Quails, d la Marichale. „ with Cucumbers. 

1041. QUAILS, WITH STEWED PEAS. 

Truss eight quails in the same manner as chickens are trussed for 
boiling, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon, 
and a garnished faggot of parsley in the centre, cover them with thin 
layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236), and 
braize the quails gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Prepare 
about a pint of stewed peas, and finish them with a little of the mirc- 
poix reduced to a glaze; dish op the quails in a circle with their 
breasts placed outward, fill the centre with the stewed peas, place a 
scollop of streaky bacon in between each quail, pour some Espagnole 
sauce, finished with some of the mirepoix, round and over the entree, 
and serve. 

1042. QUAILS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Draw eight fine fat quails, taking care not to tear the pouch, or 
skin of the throat; fill each with some truffles cut into very small 
olives, and prepared as for stuffing fowls, &c, a la Perigueux (No. 
660) ; then truss them in the same manner as fowls for boiling. Next, 
cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin layers of bacon, and place 
the quails thereon ; put a garnished faggot of parsley, and a clove of 
garlic in the centre, cover them with layers of bacon, and moisten with 
some wine mirepoix (No. 236) : braize them gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour, and when done, dish them up with their backs 
resting upright against a small ornamental croustade of fried bread 
previously fastened on the centre of the dish ; place a large white 
cock's-comb between each quail, and some double cocks'-combs in the 
centre, with a large truffle to crown the whole ; pour some Perigueux 
sauce (No. 23) over the entree, and serve. 

1042. QUAILS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Remove the bones entirely from eight fat quails, reserve the livers, 
and add to them half a pound of fat livers of fowl, with which prepare 
some force-meat (No. 249), and stuff the quails with part of this ; 




CUTLETS OF QUAILS. 353 

they must then be trussed in the usual manner, and placed in a stewpan 
with thin layers of fat bacon under them, a garnished faggot of parsley 
in the centre, and covered with layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some 
wine mirepoix (No. 236), and braize them gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour. Prepare a rich Financiere ragout (No. 188), the 
sauce of which must be finished with some of the liquor in which the 
quails have been braized. When about to send to table, warm the 
quails, drain and dish them up, garnish the centre with the Financiere, 
pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. 

1044. QUAILS, A LA EOYALE. 

Bone eight quails, then stuff them with some quenelle force-meat, 
and truss them in the usual manner ; place them in a stewpan with 
some sliced carrot, an onion, two 
cloves, and a garnished faggot of 
parsley ; moisten with a pint of 
white broth, cover with a round of 
buttered paper, put the lid on, and 
set them to braize very gently by 
the side of a stove-fire for about 
three-quarters of an hour ; then 
allow them partially to cool in their 
own liquor, after which they must 
be taken out and placed upon a dish 
in the larder to become cold; the 

strings should then be removed, and the quails entirely covered with a 
coating of cPUxelles sauce (No. 16) ; when this has become firmly set 
by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, afterwards dip them in beaten 
esrg, and bread-crumb them over again. When about to send to table, 
place the quails upon the wire-lining of a frying-pan, and immerse 
them in plenty of clean hopc's-lard made quite hot for the purpose ; fry 
them of a light-brown color, then drain and dish them up on a border 
of quenelle force-meat previously turned out on the dish ; fill the centre 
with a white Toulouse ragout (No. 187), place a decorated minion 
fillet of chicken betweeu each quail, pour some Allemande sauce round 
the base of the entree, and serve. 

1045. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA MARECBALE, 

Split the quails into halves, remove the breast, pinion, and part of 
the back-bones, leaving the leg entire, which must be passed through 
the skin of the thigh to give them the appearance of cutlets ; flatten 
them slightly with a small bat, season with pepper and salt, then mask 
them over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce (No. 7), and bread- 
crumb them twice upon this : once after being dipped in beaten egg, 
and then in clarified butter : pat them into shape with the blade of a 
knife, and place them in neat order in a sautapan with some clarified 
butter. Fry the cutlets of a light color over a rather brisk fire ; when 
done, drain and glaze them lightly, and dish them up in the same way 
as other cutlets ; fill the centre with either a Macedoine of vegetables 
(No. 143), or scollops of cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus-peas, or a 
puree of artichokes ; pour some half-glaze, or a little Supreme sauce, 
round the entree, and serve. 
22 



354 ENTREES OF QUAILS. 

1046. CUTLETS OF QUAILS, A LA BORDELAISE. 

Trim the quails into cutlets in the same way as directed in the fore- 
going case, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a 
sautapan with a little clarified butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, and 
as soon as they have acquired a light color on both sides, pour off all 
the grease, add a spoonful of glaze, and toss them in it over the fire ; 
then dish them up in a close circle with the legs uppermost, fill the 
centre with scollops of truffles and mushrooms, pour some Bordelaise 
sauce (No. 57), over the cutlets, aud serve. 

1047. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA TALLEYRAND. 

Fillet eight quails, and with the carcasses make some essence 
(No. 218) ; trim the fillets, and stick a short bone (reserved from the 
legs) into them, to imitate cutlets ; then place them in a sautapan with 
some clarified butter. Prepare sixteen fried croutons of bread cut in 
the shape and size of the fillets, and fill these with some farce made 
from the quails' livers ; prepare also some scollops of fat livers, truffles 
and mushrooms, and put them into a small stewpan with a little Alle- 
mande sauce (No. 7); finish some Supreme sauce (No. 38) by incorpo- 
rating therein the reduced essence of quails, and keep it in a small bain- 
marie. Just before sending to table, simmer the fillets over a moderate 
stove-fire, and when done, pour off all the grease, add a little of the 
Supreme sauce, toss the fillets in it, and dish them up as follows : — 

First, place eight of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven) 
at the bottom of the dish, so that the points meet in the centre ; then 
place a fillet upon each of these, after which repeat the croutons, and 
then place the last row of fillets ; fill the centre with the scollops, pour 
the Supreme sauce over the fillets, and serve. 

1048. FILLETS OF QUAILS, A LA PARISIENNE. 

Prepare the fillets and the croutons as directed in the foregoing 
case, and finish and dish them up in the same way ; fill the centre of 
the entree with a Parisian ragout (No. 203), pour some of the sauce 
over the fillets, aud serve. 

1049. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Fillet eight quails ; trim each fillet into two scollops, and place the 
whole of these into a sautapan with some clarified butter ; season with 
a little pepper and salt, and place a round of buttered paper over them. 
Use the carcasses to make some extract or essence with, which when 
done must be clarified, boiled down to glaze, and incorporated with 
some finished Espagnole sauce (No. 3), and put into a small bain- 
marie. Simmer the scollops over a moderate fire, aud as soon as they 
are done, pour off all the butter, and add half the sauce with about 
half a pound of truffles cut into scollops ; toss them over the stove-fire 
for two minutes without allowing them to boil ; pile them up in the 
centre of the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over them, garnish 
the entree with a border of potato croquettes or Jleurons, and serve. 

1050. SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH CUCUMBERS. 

These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing. When 
about to send to table, simmer them over the stove-fire, and when 



ENTREES OF LARKS. 355 

done, pour off the bntter, add some scollops of encumbers (No. 138), 
and some of the essence made from the carcasses boiled down to a glaze ; 
toss them over the fire for two minutes, and pile them up in the centre 
of the dish ; garnish the entree round with a border of croquettes made 
with the legs, and serve. 



ENTREES OF LARKS, 



COMPRISING 



• Larks, d la Minute. Larks, with Fine-herbs. 

„ a la Chipolata. „ with Truffles, d Vltalilnne. 

1051. LARKS, A LA MINUTE. 

Cut off the legs, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a small 
knife ; then place the larks in a deep sautapan previously spread with 
butter ; season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire until 
they have acquired a brown color, and are nearly done ; all the grease 
must be poured off, and a large gravy-spoonful of Espagnole sauce, 
half a pottle of mushrooms, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, and 
the juice of half a lemon, should then be added ; toss them over the 
stove-fire until the whole is well mixed, then dish up the larks with 
fried croutons of bread round them, pour the mushrooms and sauce 
over the entree, and serve. 

1052. LARKS, A LA CHIPOLATA. 

Prepare and fry the larks as directed in the foregoing case, and 
when done, pour off the grease, and add some Chipolata ragout (No. 
190) ; toss and simmer this over the stove-fire for five minutes, then 
dish up eight of the larks upon as many small oval croutons, place 
eight more croutons on these, and set a like number of larks upon 
them ; fill the centre with the ragout, pour the sauce over the entree, 
and serve. 

1053. LARKS, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Trim the larks and draw the gizzards, place them in a sautapan with 
a little butter, pepper and salt ; fry them of a light brown color over 
a brisk fire, and then add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, an 
equal proportion of parsley, and two shalots also chopped ; simmer 
these with the larks for five minutes longer, then add a gravy-spoonful 
of Espagnole sauce (No. 3), a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, 
the juice of half a lemon and a little grated nutmeg ; toss the whole 
well together over the fire for two minutes, and dish them in a neat 
pyramidal form, place some croutons of fried bread round the entree, 
pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

1054. LARKS, WITH TRUFFLES, A L'lTALIENNE, 

Fry these as directed in the foregoing cases, and when they have 
acquired a light-brown color, pour off the grease, add some brown 
Italian sauce (No. 12), half a pottle of mushrooms, and about two 
ounces of truffles cut into scollops ; toss the whole together over the 



356 ENTREES OF RABBITS. 

fire for five minutes, dish up the larks in double rows, with croutons of 
bread in between each row, fill the centre with the truffles and mush- 
rooms, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. 



ENTREES OF RABBITS, 



COMPRISING 



Rabbit, d la Chasseur. Fillets of Rabbits, larded, d la Toulouse, <jkc. 
„ fried in Batter, with Poivrade „ d la Murechak, Ac. 

sauce. Blanquette of Rabbit, d I'Eearlate. 

„ d la Bourguignonne. Polpettes of Rabbit, d Vltalibme. 
„ d la Pirigueux. 

1055. RABBIT, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Cut up the rabbit into small joints, as follows : — first, take off the 
hind legs even with the loins, then remove the shoulders, split the head 
into halves, and divide the loins into six pieces; trim these neatly with- 
out waste, and place them in a sautapan with two ounces of clarified 
butter, pepper and salt. Fry them of a light-brown color over a rather 
brisk fire, and add a table-spoonful of chopped fine-herbs, consisting 
of mushrooms, truffle, parsley, and shalot ; then put the lid on, and set 
the rabbit over a slow fire for about ten minutes longer; next pour off 
all the grease, add a large gravy-spoonful of Espagnole sauce, some 
scollops of mushrooms and truffles, two dozen small quenelles of rabbit, 
a small piece of glaze, a little nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon; 
simmer the whole together on the stove-fire for three minutes, then pile 
up the pieces of rabbit in the dish;=-arrange the ragout over this in neat 
groups, pour the sauce over the entree, place some croutons of fried 
bread round it, and serve. 

1056. RABBIT FRIED IN BATTER, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 

Cut the rabbit up as in the foregoing case, and theu follow the direc- 
tions given for dressing chickens in this manner (No. 988). 

1057. RABBITS, A LA BOURGUIGNONNE. 

Cut the rabbits up into small joints, season with pepper and salt, and 
fry them slightly over the fire, without allowing them to acquire much 
color, adding half a pint of button-onions previously parboiled in water, 
a very little grated nutmeg and half a pottle of mushrooms ; toss these 
over the fire for five minutes, then add a tumblerful of French white 
wine (Chablis or Sauterne), and set this to boil sharply until reduced 
to half the quantity ; next, add two large gravy-spoonfuls of Veloi'tr 
sauce (No. 4), simmer the whole together gently for ten minutes longer, 
and finish by incorporating a leason of four yolks of eggs, the juice of 
half a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parboiled parsley; 
dish up the pieces of rabbit in a pyramidal form, garnish the enlrre 
with the onions, &c, placed in groups round the base, pour the sauce 
over it, and serve. 

1058. RABBITS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Cut these up, and fry them with a little butter of a light-brown 
color : pour off the grease, add some Perigueux sauce (No. 23), four 



BLANQUETTES OF RABBITS. 357 

ounces of truffles cut into scollops, and two dozen small quenelles of 
rabbit, and simmer the whole together over the stove-fire for five 
minutes ; dish up the entree with croutons round it, garnish with the 
ragout, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 

1059. FILLETS OF RABBITS LARDED, A LA TOULOUSE. 

Fillet four or six rabbits (according to the number of guests), 
trim the fillets and lard two-thirds of each — beginning at the thick 
end ; then place them in a circular row, all curved in the same direc- 
tion, in a sautapan, the bottom of which should be lined with thiu 
layers of fat bacon. About twenty minutes before sending to table, 
pour a little strong consomme or thin half-glaze to the fillets, place a 
round piece of buttered paper upon them, and set them in the oven to 
simmer for ten minutes; then remove the paper, dry the larding and 
glaze it, frequently basting the fillets with their own glaze ; next, drain 
them upon a napkin, trim and dish them up in a close circle, fill the 
centre with ragout d la Toulouse (No. 187), pour some of the sauce 
round the base, glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of rabbits larded, may also be garnished with either a 
ragout a la Parisienne, or a la Financiere ; with small quenelles, 
scollops of truffles, of mushrooms, or of cucumbers ; and with any kind 
of dressed vegetables or purees. 

1060. FILLETS OF RABBITS, A LA MARECHALE. 

Fillet four rabbits, slightly flatten, and then trim the fillets, 
making an incision round the interior part of them ; fill this with some 
(VUxelles sauce (No. 16); mask them over with a thin coating of 
Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, 
bread-crumb them twice : once dipped in beaten egg, and then, after 
being sprinkled over with clarified butter ; broil the fillets over a clear 
fire of moderate heat, with a sheet of oiled paper placed upon the 
gridiron ; when done of a light color on both sides, dish them up in a 
close circle, fill the centre with scollops of the kidneys and inner 
fillets, mixed with truffles and mushrooms, and tossed in a little 
Allemande sauce ; glaze the fillets, pour some bright Espagnole sauce, 
worked with essence made from the carcasses, round the base of the 
entree, and serve. 

Note. — These fillets may also be served with some bright aspic, with 
cucumbers, a puree of celery, or white Italian sauce. 

1061. BLANQUETTE OF RABBITS, A L'ECARLATE. 

Fillet three rabbits, cut off the hind-quarters, place them upon an 
iron skewer ; lay this upon a large sheet of thickly-buttered paper, 
season with pepper and salt, and strew upon it some thinly-sliced 
carrot, an onion, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; wrap the paper round 
them, and then tie the skewer upon a spit, and roast them before the 
fire for about twenty minutes ; then take them up on a dish, and 
leave them in the paper till they have become cold ; the meat must 
next be peeled off, cut into small dice, and made up into croquettes 
(No. 1020). Trim the fillets, and place them in a sautapan with a 
little clarified butter, pepper and salt, and simmer them in the oven 
or over a slow fire for about ten minutes, without allowing them to 



358 ENTREES OF HARE. 

acquire any color ; then drain them, and cut them into sloping scol- 
lops ; put these into a stewpan with one-third of their proportion of 
scollops or red tongue and some mushrooms ; add two gravy-spoonfuls 
of Allemande sauce (No. T), warm the Blanquette, gently tossing it 
over the fire, and dish it up in the form of a dome ; garnish it round 
with the croquettes, previously fried, mask the Blanquette with a spoon- 
ful of the sauce, and serve. 

1062. POLPETTES OF RABBITS, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Roast two rabbits, and when they are cold, cut off all the meat and 
chop it up fiue ; put this into a stewpan with a tablespoonful of 
chopped mushrooms, an equal proportion of parsley and two shalots, 
also chopped, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated 
nutmeg, and two gravy-spoonfuls of reduced Veloute sauce ; stir these 
together over the fire until well mixed, then add the yolks of four 
eggs, and spread the preparation out in a square, about half an inch 
thick, upon an earthen dish ; when this has become cold, stamp the 
Polpettes out with a circular tin-cutter about an inch and a half in 
diameter; bread-crumb them twice in the usual manner, place them in 
a sautapan with some clarified butter, and fry them of a light color 
over a brisk fire ; when done, drain them upon a napkin, dish them up 
iu double circular rows, pour some brown Italian sauce under them, 
and serve. 

Note. — Besides the foregoing methods of dressing rabbits for entrees, 
they may also be served in almost every variety of form in which 
chickens or fowls (previously cut up into small joints) are directed to 
be prepared ; purees, minces, salpicons, and every kind of quenelles 
and boudins, may also be made with rabbits ; for which consult those 
articles in that part of the work treating of entrees of chickens and 
fowls, and proceed in the same manner. 



ENTREES OF HARE, 

COMPRISING 



Fillets of Hare, larded, with Poivrade Sauee. Cutlets of Hare, & VAncienne. 

„ & la Chasseur. Scollops of Hare, with Fine- Herbs. 

„ u I' Allemande. „ d la PSrigtietix. 

Cutlets of Hare, d la Porttiguaise. Civet of Hare, with Mushrooms. 

1063. FILLETS OF HARE LARDED, WITH POIVRADE SAUCE. 

If the hares used for this purpose are full grown, three will suffice ; 
they must be filleted, and each fillet split into halves ; these should be 
trimmed and larded, and placed in a curve at the bottom of a sauta- 
pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with some mirep om 
(No. 236), place a round of buttered paper upon the fillets, and set 
them in the oven to simmer for twenty minutes, frequently basting 
them with their own liquor ; when they are nearly done, remove the 
paper, dry the larding and glaze it ; drain the fillets upon a napkin, 
trim and dish them up iu a close circle, pour some Poivrade, Toinata, 
or Italian sauce under them, and serve. 



CUTLETS OF HARE. 359 

Note. — These fillets may also be garnished iu the same way as di- 
rected for fillets of rabbits. 

1064. FILLETS OF HARE. A LA CHASSEUR. 
Prepare the fillets and place them in a sautapan as directed in the 

foregoing case. Use the carcasses for making some extract, ov fumet, 
reserve the hind-quarters, run them on a large iron skewer, place 
them on a large sheet of paper thickly buttered, season with pepper 
and salt, and strew over them some thinly-sliced carrot and onion, 
parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme ; wrap the paper round the legs, and 
fasten the skewer on the spit with string, then roast them before the 
fire for about half an hour, basting them frequently. When done, pare 
off all the meat, chop it very fine, and pound it in a mortar with a pat 
of butter and a spoonful of Espagnole sauce ; rub it through a fine 
wire sieve or tammy, and put the puree into a small stewpan. When 
about to send to table, braize and glaze the fillets as directed in the 
foregoing case, dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with the 
puree, pour round the base of the entree, and mask the puree with 
some bright Espagnole sauce worked with the fumet ; glaze the lard- 
ing of the fillets, and serve. 

1065. FILLETS OF HARE, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Lard the fillets as in the foregoing cases, steep them in some mari- 
nade (No. 234) for six hours at least; drain and put them in a sau- 
tapan lined with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine 
mirepoix, braize and glaze them in the usual manner, and when done, 
dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with large prunes stewed 
in red wine with a small stick of cinnamon, pour some cherry sauce 
d la Victoria (No. 64) round the base, place a border of quenelles of 
potatoes (No. 312) round the entree, and serve. 

1066. CUTLETS OF HARE, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 
Fillet three hares, cut each fillet across into halves, flatten these 
slightly with a bat, trim them into the shape of cutlets, and scrape 
some of the ribs to resemble cutlet-bones ; season with a little pepper 
and salt, mask them over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and 
bread-crumb the cutlets twice ; once dipped in beaten egg, and after- 
ward sprinkled with clarified butter ; pat them gently into shape, and 
place them in a sautapan with clarified butter. When about to send 
to table, fry the cutlets of a light color, drain, glaze and dish them up 
in a close circle, till the centre with yams previously cut into the form 
of olives, and fried in butter ; pour some Portuguese sauce (No. 59) 
round the base, and serve. 

1067. CUTLETS OF HARE, A LAXCIENNE. 
These must be trimmed as directed in the foregoing case, and 
placed in a buttered sautapan without being bread-crumbed ; then 
season with pepper and salt, pour a little clarified butter over them, 
and with half the hind-quarters make some puree in the usual way — 
keeping this rather thick. Use the carcasses to make some fumet 
with, to be worked into some Espagnole sauce for the entree. Cut as 
many croutons of bread as there are cutlets, and of the same shape ; 
draw the point of a small knife round the inside of the edge of the 
croutons, and when they are fried of a light color, remove the inner 



360 ENTREES OF HARE. 

piece, fill the cavities of the croutons with the puree, and place them 
in a sautapan with a round of buttered paper upon them. Just before 
dinner-time, simmer the cutlets over a gentle fire for about five minutes, 
turn them over when done on the under side, and allow them to 
remain two minutes longer ; pour off the butter, add a little glaze and 
a spoonful of the sauce, toss them in this, and dish them up in a close 
circle ; placing one of the croutons (previously warmed) in between 
each cutlet ; fill the centre with scoliops of the kidneys and small 
fillets, truffles and mushrooms tossed in a little of the sauce, pour the 
sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. 

1068. SCOLLOPS OF HARE, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Cut the fillets of three hares into scollops, flatten them slightly 
with the handle of a knife dipped in water, trim them neatly and 
place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, season with pepper and 
salt, and fry them on both sides over a brisk fire for about five minutes ; 
pour off the butter, add some fine-herbs sauce (No. 14) and half a 
pottle of mushrooms; simmer the scollops over the fire for two minutes, 
pile them up in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce over them, gar- 
nish round with croquettes, made with the hind-quarters, as in No. 
1020, and serve. 

1069. SCOLLOPS OF HARE, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Prepare the scollops and fry them as directed in the foregoing 
case ; pour off the butter, add some Perigueux sauce (No. 23) and 
some scollops of truffles ; simmer them over the stove-fire for three 
minutes, dish them up in the form of a dome, garnish round with 
croquettes in the form of pears, anjl serve. 

Note. — Scollops of hares may also be finished with the following 
sauces : — Poivrade, Italian, Tomata, Espagnole, and Bourguignotte ; 
in either case scollops of truffles, tongue, or mushrooms, may be 
added. 

1070. CIVET OF HARE, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Cut the hare into small joints, then parboil one pound of streaky 
bacon, and cut it into square pieces the size of small walnuts ; fry 
these in a stewpan until they acquire a light-brown color, then take 
them out on a plate, and fry the pieces of hare brown also. Next, 
shake a handful of flour over them, and toss them over the fire for 
three minutes ; add the fried bacon, a pottle of mushrooms, an onion 
stuck with four cloves, a carrot and a garnished faggot of parsley ; 
season with pepper and salt, moisten with a pint of port wine, and a 
quart of good broth, stir the civet on the fire till it boils, and then 
remove it to the side that it may clarify itself by gentle ebullition. 
Fry half a pint of button onions in a small stewpan with a little but- 
ter, for five minutes, and when the civet has boiled about half an hour, 
throw these in ; as soon as the pieces of hare become tender, remove 
the scum and grease from the surface, take out the onion, carrot, and 
faggot ; and if there appear to be too much sauce, pour it into 
another stewpan, and reduce it by boiling, stirring it with ■ wooden 
spoon to prevent its burning, then pass it through a tammy upon the 
civet. Pile up the pieces of hare in the centre of the dish, and gat> 
nish round with the mushrooms, &c. ; pour the sauce over it, place a 



ENTREES OF PHEASANTS. 361 

dozen of croutons of fried bread cut in the shape of a heart round the 
the base and serve. 



Leverets, when cut up in small joints, may be dressed in the same 
manner as rabbits ; which see. 



ENTREES OF PHEASANTS, 



COMPRISING 



Salmis of Pheasant, d la Bourguignotte. Scollops of Pheasant d la Richelieu. 
" d la Brisililnne. " d la Victoria. 

" d la Paysanne. " d la Palerme. 

" d la Chasseur. 

1071. SALMIS OP PHEASANT, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Roast the pheasant, let it become cold, and then cut it up as 
follows : — First remove the legs, then cut off the fillets with the pinion- 
bones adhering thereto, separate the breast from the back, trim them 
both, cut them crosswise into halves, and place all the pieces in a stew- 
pan. Next chop up the trimmings and put them into a stewpan with 
three shalots sliced up, a small bay-leaf and sprig of thyme, a few 
pepper-corns, a blade of mace, and a pat of butter ; fry these over a 
stove-fire until they are slightly browned, moisten them with half a 
pint of Claret or Burgundy, and set the whole to boil upon the stove 
until reduced to half the quantity ; then add half a pint of white con- 
somme, and after ihefumet has simmered by the side of the stove for a 
quarter of an hour, pass it through a sieve into a stewpan containing 
sufficient Espagnole sauce for the entree, and work it in the usual 
manner (by clarifying and reducing it), then pass it through a tammy 
into a basin. Pour one-third of the sauce over the pheasant and put 
the remainder into a bain-marie containing some button-mushrooms, 
small truffles, glazed button onions, and about twenty very small que- 
nelles. When about to send to table, warm the members of pheasant 
without allowing them to boil ; dish them up, first placing the pieces 
of back, then the legs, and the fillets, surmounting the whole with the 
breast, garnish the salmis with the ragout disposed in groups round 
the base, place some heart-shaped croutons between these, pour the 
remainder of the sauce over the entree, and serve. 

1072. SALMIS OF PHEASANT, A LA BRESILIENNE. 

Roast the pheasant, and afterward cut it up into small joints as in 
the foregoing ease. Make a little farce with four pheasants' livers (or 
these failing, fowls' livers may be substituted), and use this to fill 
eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Chop the trimmings, and 
put them into a stewpan with two cloves of garlic, some chopped 
mushrooms, a blade of mace, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, twelve pepper- 
corns, and a teaspoonful of the powder of sweet red pimento, four 
ounces of lean ham, and a good table-spoonful of salad oil ; fry these 
over a moderate stove-fire for five minutes, then add six ripe tomntas, 
and after these ingredients have been stirred over the fire until the 



362 ENTREES OF PHEASANTS. 

tomatas are melted, pour in half a tumblerful of Madeira ; boil this 
down to half its quantity, add half a pint of consomme, allow the fumet 
to boil gently for twenty minutes, and pass it through the tammy with 
pressure into a stewpan containing a small ladleful of Espagnole sauce ; 
work this in the usual manner, and pass it through the tammy into a 
basin ; add one-third to the pieces of pheasant, and pour the remainder 
into a bain-marie containing some button-mushrooms and small truffles. 
Dish up the pheasant as usual, place the croutons (warmed in the 
oven and glazed), round the salmis, garnish with the ragout and sauce 
and serve. 

1073. SALMIS OP PHEASANTS, A LA PAYSANNE. 

Roast the pheasant, just before dinner, with some croutons of toast 
placed under it, cut it up into small joints and dish them up im- 
mediately ; place the croutons of toast round the salmis, and pour the 
following sauce over it : — Chop three shallots, some parsley and mush- 
rooms, put these into a stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of oil, thyme 
and bayleaf, and a little Cayenne pepper ; fry these ingredients over 
a moderate fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a small 
piece of glaze and half a pint of good consomme ; boil the sauce briskly 
until reduced to half its original quantity, then add the juice of half a 
lemon, and use it as directed. 

1074. SALMIS OF PHEASANTS, A LA CHASSEUR. 

Roast two yomng hen-pheasants, cut them up as usual, and put the 
fillets, the pieces of the breasts and backs, into a stewpan ; using the 
legs to make some puree with. Prepare the salmis sauce (No. 108), 
with four shalots and some parsely, chopped and parboiled, which are 
to be added together with the juice of half a lemou when sending 
to table. Warm the salmis in the sauce, dish it up in a pyramidal 
form, garnish it round with a dozen small croustades of fried bread, 
about an inch and a half high, and the same in diameter, filled with the 
puree ; pour the sauce over the entree and serve. 

1075. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA RICHELIEU. 

Fillet the two pheasants, pare away the sinews without trimming, and 
simmer the fillets in a sautapan with a little butter, pepper and salt ; 
then cut them into scollops, and put these into a stewpan with some 
Richelieu ragout (No. 20T). Just before sending to table, warm the 
scollops without letting them boil ; dish them up, garnish round with 
croquettes made with the legs, and serve. 

1076. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA VICTORIA. 

Fillet two young pheasants, and prepare the scollops as directed 
in the foregoing case. Make some puree with the legs ; this must be 
kept stiff, and mixed with one third of its quantity of reduced Alle- 
mande, then spread out half an inch in thickness upon a dish, and when 
cold, cut into small heart-shaped croquettes and bread-crumbed in the 
usual manner. Use the carcasses to make some essences with, which, 
after being reduced to glaze, must be mixed some Supreme sauce 
(No. 38), and poured on the scollops. Ten minutes before sending 
to table, fry the croquettes of puree, dish up the scollops in the form of 
a dome, place the croquettes in a close circle round the entree, and serve. 



ENTREES OF PARTRIDGES. 363 

1077. SCOLLOPS OF PHEASANTS, A LA PALERME. 

Prepare some scollops with the fillets of two hen-pheasants, use the 
legs to make some puree with (No. 1062), finish some Poivrade sauce 
(No. 29) with the essence made from the carcasses, and pour this to 
the scollops, and add to these some scolloped tongue, mushrooms, and 
truffles. Prepare also a dozen small croustades of nouilles (No. 1266), 
fry them of a light-yellow color, empty them, and fill them with the 
•puree, dish up the scollops, place the crdustades round the entree, and 
serve. 

Note. — Fillets of full-grown pheasants are too large to dress for 
entrees; but when young pheasants are used for such a purpose, the 
fillets may be treated according to the various methods directed for 
dressing fillets of fowls. 

For the preparation of boudins and quenelles of pheasant, follow the 
directions given for making boudins and quenelles of fowl. 



ENTREES OF PARTRIDGES, 

COMPRISING 

Salmi$ of Partridges, d la Financiire. Fillets of Partridges, d I'Ancihme. 

„ d la Provencale. „ d la Parisienne. 

„ d la Pirigord. Scollops of Partridges, with Truffles. 

„ with Mushrooms, Ac. „ with Fine-herbs, in 

Fillets of Partridges, d la Lucullus. cases. 

„ d la Prince Albert. 

1078. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Truss three partridges, rnn them upon an iron skewer, wrap them 
round with a large sheet of buttered paper, fasten the skewer upon a 
spit with string, and roast the partridges before a moderate fire for 
about five-and-twenty minutes ; then take them up, place them upon 
their breast in a dish, without removing the paper, and when cold, cut 
them up into small joints ; first taking off the legs, next the fillets with 
the pinion-bones left on, then dividing the breast and back, and trim- 
ming these whole ; place these joints in a stewpan, beginning with the 
pieces of breasts, the fillets, and then the legs and back. Make some 
essence with the trimmings, to be used for working the sauce with ; 
pour a little of this to the pieces of partridges, and warm them with- 
out boiling ; dish them up with the inferior joints under, garnish the 
salmis with a Financiere ragout (No. 188) finished with the essence, 
place a dozen heart-shaped croutons of fried bread round the entree, 
and serve. 

1079. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Roast, cut up, and trim the partridges as in the foregoing case ; 
chop the trimmings, and put them into a small stewpan with three sha- 
lots, a clove of garlic, bay-leaf and thyme, a few pepper-corns, and a 
small blade of mace, two ounces of chopped lean of ham, and two 
table-spoonfuls of salad oil ; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire 



364 ENTREES OF PARTRIDGES. 

for five minutes, and then add half a pint of French white wine. Boil 
this until reduced to half its original quantity, then add half a pint of 
good consomme and a ladlefuji of JEspagnole sauce (No. 3), stir the 
sauce over the fire till it boils, then remove it to the side to clarify by 
gentle ebullition ; after a quarter of an hour's simmering, remove the 
grease and scum, pass the same through a tammy, and boil it down 
over a brisk stove-fire, then incorporate a small piece of anchovy butter 
and the juice of half a lemon, and pass it again through a tammy into 
a basin ; pour one-third to the partridges, and put the remainder into 
a bain-marie containing some scollops of truffles and mushrooms. 
When about to send to table, warm the salmis without boiling, dish it 
up in the usual order, mask it with the ragout and sauce, garnish round 
with glazed croutons, and serve. 

1080. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PERIGORD. 

Prepare the partridges as before directed ; chop the trimmings, and 
use them to make the sauce as directed in No. 10T8. Cut out a dozen 
small heart-shaped croutons of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, 
make an incision round the inside of the edges, fry them in batter, 
empty them, and then fill the cavities with some puree of truffles (No. 
121) ; warm the salmis with a little of the sauce, and dish it up so as 
to form a well in the centre ; place six of the croutons round the top 
of the entree, fill the centre with small quenelles of partridges, pour 
the sauce over the salmis, garnish the base with the remainder of the 
croutons, and serve. 

1081. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Roast and trim the partridges^s usual, use the trimmings to make 
the sauce (No. 10), then pour it to the partridges, and add some but- 
ton-mushrooms or truffles ; warm the salmis, dish it up in a pyramidal 
form, pour the sauce over it, garnish with croutons, and serve. 

1082. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA LUCULLUS. 

Fillet four young partridges, trim the large fillets and place them 
in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; season with a little salt, and 
place a round of buttered paper upon them ; remove the sinew from the 
minion fillets without tearing them, trim them neatly, and place them 
in a small sautapan spread with butter ; dip a soft paste-brush in 
some beaten white of egg: and pass it over their surface, and then deco- 
rate them with black truffles. After this is completed, mask them with 
clarified butter, and place some very thin layers of fat bacon upon them. 
Use the carcasses to make some fumet, which must be boiled down to 
half glaze, and part of it incorporated with some white puree of mush- 
rooms* (No. 122) ; place the fillets on the stove-fire for five minutes. 
then turn them over, and when done on both sides, without having ac- 
quired any color, drain off the butter, add a little of the puree of mush- 
rooms, toss the fillets over the fire for a minute, and dish them up with 
a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread between each ; sauce the fillets 
with the puree, place the decorated fillets (previously simmered in the 
oven for about five minutes) across the croutons, 611 the centre with 
scollops of truffles, pour the sauce or puree rouud the base, and serve. 

* This purie must be of the consistency and color of Supreme sauce. 



SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES. 365 

1083. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PRUSTCE ALBERT. 

Fillet four young red-legged partridges, leaving the pinion bones 
on the fillets ; trim these neatly, lard them closely, and place them in 
a sautapan lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some 
white-wine mirepoix (No. 236), place a round of paper upon them, and 
braize the fillets over a moderate fire or in the oven, and when they 
are nearly done, glaze them nicely. Dish them up in a close circle, 
with a decorated minion fillet between each ; fill the centre with a 
ragout of crayfish-tails tossed in a little partridge glaze with some 
lobster coral ; pour some Allemande sauce mixed with some /timet of 
partridges round the entree, and serve. 

1084. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A L'ANCIEjSnSTE. 

Run an iron skewer through four young partridges, place them on 
a double sheet of thickly-buttered paper, cover them with some reduced 
mirepoix (No. 236), with the vegetables left in it ; wrap the paper 
round, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire for 
about half an hour ; then, take them up on a dish, and set them to cool 
without removing the paper. Cut the fillets out of the partridges, 
remove the skins, and trim them neatly without waste ; place them in 
a sautapan with a little half-glaze made with the carcasses. Make 
some puree with the meat from the legs, and use the gravy that runs 
from the birds after roasting, to moisten it with. Warm the fillets 
without boiling, dish them up with a" heart-shaped crouton of fried 
bread between each, fill the centre with the puree, pour some salmis 
sauce (No. 11) over the entree, and serve. 

1085. FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PARISIENJSTE . 

Trim the fillets of four young partridges, mask them over with a 
coating of Allemande sauce (No. 7), dip them in beaten eggs, and 
bread-crumb them ; then, sprinkle them over with clarified butter, and 
bread-crumb them again ; pat them gently into shape, and place them 
in circular order in a sautapan with some clarified butter. Contises 
the minion fillets with black truffles, lay them in a buttered sautapan in 
the form of crescents, and cover them with clarified butter. Fry the 
large fillets of a bright-yellow color, drain them on a napkin, glaze 
them slightly, and dish them up with a circular scollop of red tongue 
between each ; fill the centre with some Parisian ragout (No. 203), 
place the minion fillets round this, pour some of the sauce round the 
base, and serve. 

1086. SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Fillet the partridges, remove the sinews from the fillets, arfd place 
them in a sautapan with some clarified butter ; season with a little 
salt, and simmer them in the oven or over a slow fire for five minutes ; 
then, turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain them upon 
a napkin, and cut them into scollops ; place these on a stewpan with 
four ounces of truffles (previously simmered with a small piece of 
butter and glaze), and to these add some Espagnole sauce worked 
with a fumet made from the carcasses. Warm the scollops without 
boiling, dish them up in the form of a dome, garnish round with some 
croquettes made with the legs ; or, the minion fillets may be reserved, 



366 ENTREES OF PARTRIDGES. 

and when decorated or fried in batter, used to place round the 
scollops. 

1087. SCOLLOPS OF PARTRIDGES, EST CASES. 

Fillet three young partridges, cut the fillets into small scollops, 
and place them neatly in a large sautapan with two small pats of very 
fresh butter, merely melted in the sautapan without being clarified ; 
season with mignionette-pepper, salt, and nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, 
parsley, truffles, and two shalots ; simmer the scollops briskly over the 
stove-fire, and when done, add two large gravy-spoonfuls of Espagnole 
sauce worked with some fumet or extract (made from the carcasses), 
and the juice of half a lemon : toss the whole together over the fire 
for a few minutes, and fill eight or ten small plaited circular, or heart- 
shaped, paper cases that have been oiled and baked in the Oven for 
five minutes to make the paper firmer. Place the cases upon a baking- 
sheet lined with clean paper, and lay a thin circular layer of fat bacon 
upon each case. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the 
cases of scollops in the oven to be warmed through, then dish them 
up, pour a little of the same sauce in each, and serve. 

Note. — Scollops of partridges may be dressed as directed for scol- 
lops of pheasants ; fillets may also be served in every variety of form 
directed for the trearaent of fillets of fowls. 

1088. CUTLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A L'ALGERIENNE. 

Split four young partridges into halves ; remove the breast and 
backbones, and pass the legs through the skin of the thighs, so as to 
give them the form of cutlets ; ^trim them without waste, and place 
them in circular order in a sautapan with two pats of fresh butter 
simply melted ; season with mignionette-pepper, salt, and a little nut- 
meg, and then finish them as directed for spring chickens, d la 
Algerienne (No. 981). 

1089. CUTLETS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA MAITRE D'hOTEL. 

Prepare these as in the foregoing case, then mask them with 
(VUxelles sauce (No. 16), bread-crumb them twice, in the usual man- 
ner, pat them into shape, and place them in a sautapan with some 
clarified butter; fry them of a bright yellow color, drain them upon a 
sheet of paper, glaze them slightly, and dish up ; pour some Maitre- 
d'Hotel sauce (No. 43), mixed with a piece of partridge glaze under 
them, and serve. 

^Tofe.^-Cutlets of young partridges may also be dressed d la Pom- 
padour, a la Marechale, or d la Valengay (see No. 997). 

1090. PUREE OF PARTRIDGES, WITH PLOVER'S EGGS. 

Roast the partridges, remove the skin, pare off all the meat, and 
use the bones to make some fumet or extract (No. 218) ; chop the 
meat quite fine, pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a spoonful 
of sauce, and rub this through a tammy or a very fine wire sieve. Put 
the puree into a stewpan, add some of the fumet (boiled down to glaze), 
and, if necessary, a little Allemande or Bechamel sauce ; warm the pun'e 
with care, to prevent it from becoming rough, which would be the case 



BOUDIXS OF PARTRIDGES. o'ol 

if allowed to boil ; dish it up in a conical form, place some poached 
eggs or plover's eggs (if in season) round the base, with a scollop of 
red tongue cut in the form of a cock's-comb between each egi: ; pour 
a little bright Espagnole sauce over the puree without masking the 
eggs, and serve. 

1091. MIXCED PARTRIDGES, WITH POACHED EGGS. 

This entree is mostly served when there happens to be any roast 
partridges or pheasants in reserve from a previous day's dinner : the 
same remark may in some degree apply to salmis: although it must 
be admitted that a salmis made with fresh-roasted game is preferable. 

Cut the meat from the birds, either into shreds, or very small thin 
scollops or dice ; add a little pepper and salt, and as much salmis, 
AUemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, as will suffice to moisten tlie 
mince ; some truffles, mushrooms, or red tongue, cut up in the same 
manner, may also be added if approved of. Warm the mince, dish it 
up, garnish it round with poached c^s, or potato croqueUen, and 
serve. 



BOUDIXS, QUEXELLES, AXD SOUFFLES OF 
PARTRIDGES, 



COMPRISING 



Boudins of Partridges, n In d'Orsay. Crfphiettes of Partridge?. <? ?<■ d'Ext'iing. 

,, a la PriuCaniere. Sonjjiis „ a In ltoyale. 

1092. BOUDIXS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA D'ORSAY. 

Prepare some quenelle force-meat with the fillets of three partridges 
(No. 2UJ). Take two ounces of French truffles, about the same pro- 
portion <>f mushrooms, red tongue, and dressed calf's-udder ; cut all 
these into even-shaped and very small dice, and add them together 
witli a large spoonful of puree of mushrooms (Xo. 122) to the force- 
meat ; mix thoroughly, and mould this preparation into three oblong 
boudins, about six inches in length, and two inches square : place these 
upon similar-sized pieces of buttered paper laid on a stewpan-lid, and 
slip them off into a stewpan containing some boiling broth; allow 
iliem merely to simmer gently by the side of the stove-lire for about 
twenty minutes, and when done through, drain them upon a napkin, 
trim them square, mask them over with some reduced Supreme sauce, 
place three larded minion (diets across each botidin, garnish the entree 
with a ragout a la Parisienne (Xo. 208), and serve. 

1093. BOUDIXS OF PARTRIDGES, A LA PRIXTAXIERE. 

Prepare some force-meat with the fillets of three partridges (Xo. 
243), and mould this into three boudins, as directed in the foregoing 
case, poach them in the same manner, and when done, mask them 
with some Printanicre sauce (Xo. 21), mixed with some partridge 
glaze : place a decorated minion fillet at each end of the boudins, and 
a larded lamb's-sweetbread in the centre of these ; fill the well of the 



368 ENTREES OF WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. 

entree with some prawns' tails tossed in a little glaze and lobster coral, 
pour some Printaniere sauce round the base, and serve. 

1094. CREPINETTES OF PARTRIDGES, A LA D'ESTAING. 

To the quantity of quenelle force-meat named in the foregoing article, 
add half that proportion of fat bacon (previously boiled), and four 
ounces of French truffles, both cut into small dice, also a table- 
spoonful of Espagnole, and a similar quantity of partridge glaze (in a 
liquid state), and season with a little cayenne ; mix well together, and 
then drop this preparation in table-spoonfuls upon a slab or table, 
over which some flour has been previously sprinkled ; mould the 
crepineltes into the form of so many eggs, and wrap each of these in a 
proportionate-sized piece of pig's-caul ; flatten them slightly by press- 
ing upon them with the fingers, dip them in clarified butter, and fry 
them over a brisk stove-fire to a light color ; drain them upon a 
napkin, dish them up in a close circle, pour some half-glaze of par- 
tridges mixed with a small pat of butter, and the juice of half a lemou, 
and serve. 

1095. SOUFFLES OF PARTRIDGES, A LA ROYALE. 

Prepare some puree of partridges (No. 1090), warm it, then add 
five yolks of eggs, whisk the five whites and mix them in lightly also. 
Fill a dozen small plaited fancy-paper cases with this preparation, 
pass a soft paste-brush dipped in half-glaze over their surfaces, put 
them on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderately-heated oven 
for about twenty minutes ; then dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 

These souffles may be served in lieu of patties, after the fish. 

Note. — Partridges dressed whole are also served for entrees, for 
which see Removes (No. 724). 



ENTREES OF WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES, 



COMPRISING 



Woodcocks, d la Financitre. Salmis of Woodcocks, d la Minute. 

„ d la Ptrigord. „ d la Bnu>giiigno(t«. 

Fillets of Woodcocks, d I'Anrienne. „ d la Bordelaise. 

„ d la Plrigueux. 

1096. WOODCOCKS, A LA FINANCIERE. 

Truss three woodcocks in the usual way, and lard the breasts 
closely ; place them in a stewpan lined at the bottom with thin layers 
of fat bacon ; moisten with some wine mirepoix (No. 236), place a 
round of buttered paper upon them, cover with the lid containing 
live embers of charcoal, and set them to braize gently for about three- 
quarters of an hour over a moderate fire, or in the oven ; frequently 
basting them with their own liquor. When the birds are nearly done, 
remove the lid and paper, to dry the larding for a minute or so, then 
glaze the woodcocks, and drain them upon a plate ; remove the strings. 
and place them in the dish with their backs resting upright' against a 



FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS. 369 

croustade of fried bread, about four inches high, and cut in an angular 
form ; place a decorated quenelle between each woodcock, a large truffle 
on the top of the croustade, and a border of white coeks'-coinbs round 
this ; garnish the entree with a Financiere ragout (No. 188), glaze the 
larding, and serve. 

1097. WOODCOCKS, A LA PERIGORD. 

Draw three fine fat woodcocks, reserving the livers and trail ; stuff 
them with the usual preparation of truffles (No. 660), and truss 
them as for roasting ; then, run an iron skewer through the birds, 
and place them upon a double sheet of paper thickly spread with 
butter ; cover them with some reduced mirepoix (No. 236), having the 
vegetables left in it ; wrap the paper round them and secure it with 
string ; tie the woodcocks both ends upon a spit, and roast them 
before a rather brisk fire, for about three-quarters of an hour : they 
must then be taken off the spit, and dished up in the form of an 
angle ; fill the centre with small quenelles, pour some Perigueux sauce 
(No. 23) over the woodcocks, place a dozen croutons round the entree, 
and serve. 

The above-named croutons are thus prepared: — Fry the trail, &c, 
in a small stewpan with a little butter, a table-spoonful of chopped 
mushrooms, parsley, and half a shalot ; season with pepper, salt and 
nutmeg, and then add a table-spoonful of reduced Espagnole sauce 
(No. 3) ; rub this through a tammy, and spread it upon twelve heart- 
shaped crouton^ of fried bread. These croutons should be placed in 
the oven for three minutes, to warm them. 

1098. FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS, A L'ANCIENNE. 

See "Fillets of Partridges" (No. 1084). Add the trail to the legs 
of the woodcocks ; prepare an essence with the carcasses, and use 
this to work the sauce ; in all other respects proceed in the same 
manner. 

1099. FILLETS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA PERIGUEUX. 

Trim the fillets of three woodcocks, using the under or minion 
fillets to form three more, by patting them together with the handle 
of a knife ; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, and season 
with pepper and salt. Prepare some farce with the trail, as in No. 
1097, and spread it upon as many croutons of fried bread as there 
are fillets. Simmer the fillets over the fire without allowing them 
to acquire any color; drain off the butter, then add a little of the 
Perigueux sauce (No. 23), worked with the essence made from the 
carcasses, toss the fillets in this, and dish them up in a close circle 
round a small croustade of fried bread, cut in the form of a vase ; 
place one of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven for three 
minutes) between each fillet; fill the croustade with some puree of 
truffles (No. 121), pour the Perigueux sauce over the fillets, and 
serve. 

1100. SALMIS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA MINUTE. 

Roast three woodcocks just before dinner-time ; cut them up into 
small joints in the usual manner, reserving the trail, which must be 
made into a puree and spread upon a dozen small heart-shaped crou- 
23 



370 ENTREES OF WILD FOWL. 

tons. Prepare the sauce as directed in No. 11, and add it to the 
woodcocks. Warm the salmis without boiling, dish it up in a pyra- 
midal form, and place the croutons round the base ; add a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped and boiled parsley to the sauce, pour it over the 
entree, and serve. 

1101. SALMIS OF WOODCOCKS, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

Roast the woodcocks, cut them up, and prepare the croutons as in 
the foregoing case ; make an essence with the trimmings, and add this 
to a Bourguignotte ragout (No. 195). Warm the salmis with a little 
of the sauce, dish it up, garnish with the ragout and sauce, place the 
croutons round the base, and serve. 

1102. SALMIS OF SNIPES, A LA BORDELAISE. 

Roast six fat snipes, split them into halves, and prepare a dozen 
croutons with the trail, as directed in No. 1097 ; dish up the snipes in 
double circular rows, first placing a row of croutons, then six pieces 
of snipes upon these, and again the croutons, closing with the remain- 
der of the snipes; fill the centre with a ragout of button-mushrooms, 
truffles, and small quenelles, pour some Bordelaise sauce, (No. 57) 
over the entree, and serve. 



ENTREES OF WILD FOWL. 



COMPRISING 

Salmis of Wild Duck. Fillots of Widgeon, d la Proven&tle. 

" Widgeon, or Teal. Widgeons, d I' Amiricaine. 

Fillets of Widgeon, d la Bigarrade. Fillets of Teal, d I'Anylaise. 

1103. SALMIS OF WILD DUCK. 

Roast a wild duck before a brisk fire, for about five-and-twenty 
minutes, so that it may retain its gravy; place it on its breast in a 
dish to get cool ; then, cut it up into small joints — comprising two 
fillets, two legs with the breast and back, each cut into two pieces — 
and place the whole in a stewpan. Put the trimmings into a stew- 
pan with half a pint of red wine, four shalots, a sprig of thyme, and a 
bay-leaf; the rind of an orange, free from pith, the pulp of a lemon, 
and a little cayenne ; boil these down to half their original quantity ; 
then add a small ladleful of worked Expagnole sauce (No. 3), allow 
the sauce to boil, skim it, and pass it through a tammy on to the 
pieces of wild duck. When about to send to the table, warm the 
salmis without boiling, dish it up, pour the sauce over it, garnish the 
entree with eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, nicely glazed, 
and serve. 

1104. SALMIS OF WIDGEON, OR TEAL. 

Truss three of these for roasting, place them in an earthen dish, 
and strew about them thinly-sliced carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, 
and bay-leaf; season with mignionette-pepper, a little salt, the juice of 
a lemon, and a gill of salad oil, and allow them to steep in this marinade 



FILLETS OF WILD FOWL. 371 

for twelve hours (time permitting), frequently turning them over, 
that they may become thoroughly impregnated with its flavor. 
When about to dress the widgeons, run them upon an iron skewer, 
placing the vegetables, &c, on their breasts ; wrap them round with 
two sheets of oiled paper, fastened on with string ; tie them on the spit 
at both ends, and roast them before a brisk fire for a space of time 
proportionate to their size, in comparison to wild ducks, observing 
that they must be roasted with the gravy in them; allow them to 
cool, cut them in the ordinary way for salmis, use the trimmings and 
the gravy that has run from the wild fowl into the dish, to make the 
sauce with, which is to be prepared as directed in No. 28. Pour the 
sauce, when finished, on to the pieces of wild fowl, adding some 
button-mushrooms ; warm the salmis without boiling, dish it up in a 
pyramidal form, garnish with croutons, pour the sauce over it, and 
serve. 

1105. FILLETS OF WILD DUCKS, WIDGEON", OR TEAL, A LA 
BIGARRADE. 

Prepare these, in the first instance, as directed in the foregoing 
article ; spit them, and cover the breasts with their seasoning, wrap 
them up securely with paper, and roast them before a brisk fire; when 
nearly done, remove the paper, &c, and set them closer to the fire, 
that they may acquire a light-brown color. Take them up, and fillet 
them, leaving the pinion-bones on ; score, trim, and dish them up at 
once, placing a crouton between each fillet ; add the gravy that runs 
from the wild fowl to some Bigarrade sauce (No. 33), pour this over 
the fillets, and serve. 

1106. FILLETS OF WILD FOWL, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Prepare the fillets as above, dish them up in the same manner, pour 
some Provengale sauce (No. 25), to which has been added a glass of 
Madeira, over the entree, and serve. 

1107. WIDGEON", A L'AMERICAINE. 

Roast these quite plain, basting them frequently with fresh butter 
while roasting : when done, cut them up into small joints, and place 
these in a stewpan with half a pound of red-currant jelly, the juice of 
a lemon, and two glasses of Port wine ; allow the whole to simmer 
gently over a moderate stove-fire for ten minutes ; dish up the entree 
with fried croutons round it, pour the sauce over the widgeon, and 
serve. 

1108. FILLETS OF TEAL, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Roast the teal quite plain ; when done, cut the fillets out, score 
them across, and dish them up with crdutons of fried bread ; pour some 
essence of orange (No. 171) over the fillets, and serve. 



372 



ENTREES OF ORTOLANS AND WHEATEARS, 

COMPRISING 

Ortolans, in Cases, with Madeira sauce. Wheatears, in Cases, with Fine-herbs, 
in Cr6u*tades, d la Provenqale. 

1109. OKTOLANS IN CASES, WITH MADEIRA SAUCE. 

These very delicious birds are a great rarity in England ; they are 
in season in September, and are to be had only of first-rate poulterers, 
who mostly import them from Belgium. 

Cut four fat livers of fowls, and an equal quantity of fat bacon, 
into square pieces ; first fry the bacon in a sautapan over a brisk fire, 
then add the livers, with a tablespoonful of fine-herbs, and season with 
pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; when all this is fried brown, 
add to it half its quantity of panada (No. 239), and pound the whole 
together in a mortar until well mixed ; add three yolks of eggs, then 
mix the above well together by pounding, and take 1 he /arce up into 
a basin. Next, cut eight small oval croustades of bread, just large 
enough to hold an ortolan each, making a slight incision round the 
inside of the edge of each crdustade, and fry them in butter, of a light 
color ; remove the inside crumb, line them with a thin coating of the 
farce, place an ortolan in each, then put them on a baking-sheet with 
a little oil, and bake them in the oven. When they are done, glaze 
and dish them up, pour over them^ome Madeira sauce (No. 8) mixed 
with a small pat of anchovy-butter, and the juice of half a lemon, then 
serve. 

1110. ORTOLANS IN CROUSTADES, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Place the ortolans in a sauta-pan with three table-spoonfuls of salad 
oil, a bruised clove of garlic, some chopped truffles, mushrooms, and 
parsley ; season with miguionette-pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice 
of a lemon ; fry them in this over a brisk fire for about ten minutes, 
adding a small piece of glaze and a spoonfnl of Espagnole sauce when 
done ; toss the whole together, and then put the ortolans into small 
oval croustades of bread, fried iu oil. Pour the fine-herbs over them, 
and place them upon a baking-sheet in the oven for about a quarter of 
an hour, that they may acquire a bright light-brown color; then, 
dish them up, pour some Provengale sauce (No. 25) over them, and 
serve. 

1111. WHEATEARS IN CASES, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

These are in season in August, and are seldom exposed for sale in 
the London markets; they are more plentiful at Brighton, being chiefly 
caught in that neighborhood : wheatears are not more than two-thirds 
of the size of larks, but when in good condition, are so unctuous as to 
resemble small lumps of butter, and are esteemed by epicures as very 
choice eating. Cut the legs off the wheatears, chop some trufflrs. 
mushrooms, and one shalot, and fry these in a sautapan with two pats 
of butter ; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; then add 
a spoonful of sauce, two yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, a small 



ENTREES OF FISH. 373 

piece of anchovy-butter, and a little glaze ; place two wheatears in each 
case (previously oiled and baked to stiffen the paper), pour the sauce 
over them, and bake them in the oven upon a sautapan for about a 
quarter of an hour ; pour a little bright Espagnole sauce over them, 
and serve. 



FISH ENTREES, 

COMPRISING 

Boudins of Lobster, d la Cardinal. Fillets of Soles, d la Dieppoise. 
Quenelles ,, d la Vertpre. „ d la Jfaitre a" Hotel. 

Boudins of Whitings, d la Supreme. „ d la VSnitienne. 

Quenelles „ d la Princesse. „ a la Provencale. 

Boudins of Salmon, d I'ltalihine. „ d I'Horfg. 

Quenelles „ d la Ravigotte. ., d la Royale. 

Blanquette of Sturgeon. Panpiittes of Soles, d la Cardinal. 

Scollops of Sturgeon, with Fine-herbs. Dolphins of Whitings, d la Parisienne. 
Cutlets „ d la Bourguiynotte. Fillets of Whiting, Ac. 

Fillets of Salmon, d V Aurora. Fillets of Trout, d la Chevaliere. 

„ a la Parisienne. „ d la Rigence. 

„ d la Maintenon. Epigramme of Fillets of Trout. 

Fillets of Turbot. Fillets of Perch, <fec. 
Fillets of Gurnet, with Caper Sauce. „ of Mackerel. 

1112. BOUDINS OF LOBSTEE, A LA CARDINAL. 

Chop the meat of two good-sized lobsters very fine, put this into a 
mortar with the pith, and part of the coral, reserving the remainder for 
the sauce ; add two-thirds of its proportion of butter, pound the whole 
thoroughly, and rub the produce through a fine wire sieve upon a plate; 
put the lobster back in the mortar with half its quantity of Panada, 
(No. 239), and pound these until well mixed ; add three yolks of eggs, 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mix thoroughly by pounding, add one 
whole egg, and then try the force-meat, by poaching a small portion 
of it in boiling water ; when done, cut it through the middle, and if the 
inside presents a smooth compact surface, take the force-meat up into 
a basin, but if it appears soft and rough, add a little more Panada, 
and another egg ; divide the force-meat into three parts, roll these 
upon a slab with a little flour into oblong boudins, about six inches in 
length by two inches square ; poach them with boiling water in a deep 
sautapan by the stove-fire, for about twenty minutes, turning them over 
carefully when done on one side ; drain them upon a napkin, trim the 
sides, and mask them with some Cardinal sauce (No. 48) ; place 
across them some small fillets of soles, conlises with truffles, and dish 
them up in a triangular form ; fill the centre with a ragout a la Car- 
dinal (No. 200), and serve. 

1113. QUENELLES OF LOBSTER, A LA VERTPRE. 

Mould eighteen table-spoonfuls of quenelles with some lobster force- 
meat prepared as directed in the foregoing case ; place them in circular 
order, in a sautapan spread with butter, and poach them with boiling 
water, which must lie poured upon a stewpan-cover held in a sloping 
direction against the side of the sautapan ; put a round of buttered 



374 ENTREES OF FISH. 

paper over the quenelles, and set them to simmer gently by the side 
of a stove-fire for about twenty minutes. When done, drain them upon 
a napkin, stick some thick pieces of the antennae, or horns, of the 
lobsters in one end of the quenelles, dish them up in close circular 
order, pour some Verlpre sauce (No. 21) over them, fill the centre with 
picked prawus'-tails (previously warmed in a little glaze and lobster 
coral), and serve. 

1114. BOUDINS OF WHITINGS, A LA SUPREME. 

Pound the fillets of four skinned whitings, and rub them through a 
fine wire sieve ; put the produce in a mortar, with two-thirds of its 
quantity of fresh butter, and an equal proportion of bread panada 
(No. 239) ; pound these until well mixed, season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, adding three yolks of eggs, and continue pounding for 
five minutes, then add two whole eggs, and after these have been 
thoroughly mixed in by pounding, take the force-meat up into a basin. 
Previously to using the force-meat, add a spoonful of Allemande or 
Bechamel sauce ; next, shake some flour over a slab or table, divide 
the force-meat with a table-spoon into fourteen equal parts, roll these 
with the hand dipped in flour into small oval shapes, and place them 
immediately in a sautapan spread with butter ; mask them over with 
a soft paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and decorate them 
with black truffles. Poach the boudins with boiling water, in the usual 
manner ; when done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up in 
a close circle, so as to show the decorated part ; fill the centre with a 
ragout consisting either of muscles, oysters, shrimps, crayfish, or mush- 
rooms ; pour round some Supreme sauce (No. 38), finished with some 
reduced essence made from the bones of the fish, and serve. 

1115. QUENELLES OF WHITINGS, A LA PRINCESSE. 

Mould sixteen quenelles in table-spoous, with some force-meat of 
whitings prepared as directed in the above case, mixed with a spoonful 
of puree of mushrooms (No. 122) ; place the quenelles in a sautapan 
spread with butter, poach them in the usual manner, and when done, 
drain, and dish them up in close circular order ; pour some Prim 
sauce (No. 45) over the entree, fill the centre with a ragout of soft 
roes of mackerel (No. 199), and serve. 

1116. BOUDINS OF SALMON, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Pound about one pound of fresh salmon, and pass it through a fine 
wire sieve ; then put it again into a mortar with two-thirds of its 
quantity of fresh butter, and an equal proportion of bread panada 
(No. 239) ; pound these thoroughly for about five minutes, season 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding three yolks of eggs ; mix them 
well together, then add one whole e^, and a spoonful of reduced 
Allemande sauce, continue pounding for ten minutes longer, after 
which take the force-meat up into a basin. Mould four large quenelles 
with ragout-spoons, and place them in a deep sautapan spread with 
butter; lay a small fillet of sole contise with black truffles round the 
edge of each quenelle, poach them in the usual way, and when done, 
drain them upon a napkin, then dish them upright against a narrow 
croustade of fried bread, previously fastened in the centre of the dish ; 
place a large crayfish between each quenelle, garnish the top of the 



STURGEON AND SALMON. 375 

croustade with scollops of mushrooms, pour some white Italian sauce" 
(No. 13) round the entree, and serve. 

1117. QUENELLES OF SALMON, A LA RAVIGOTTE. 

Mould a dozen quenelles in table-spoons, with some force-meat of 
salmon prepared as directed above ; poach them in the ordinary way, 
and when done, drain and dish them up in close circular order ; pour 
some Ramgotte sauce (No. 21) over them, fill the centre with scollops 
of whitings tossed in a little Allemande sauce, and serve. 

1118. BLANQUETTE OF STURGEON. 

Braize about two pounds of sturgeon in some wine mirepoix (No. 
236) for about three quarters of an hour, and set it to cool in its 
own liquor; then drain and cut it up into scollops, and place these in 
a stewpan with some scollops of truffles and button-mushrooms, to 
which add some Allemande sauce finished with part of the mirepoix 
reduced for the purpose : warm the blanquette, dish it up in the form 
of a dome, garnish round with lobster croquettes, and serve. 

1119. SCOLLOPS OF STURGEON, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Procure about two pounds of sturgeon, place it in an earthen pan, 
strew over it sliced carrot and o«ion, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and 
season with mignionette pepper and salt, lemon-juice, and a gill of 
salad-oil ; allow this to remain for a day or two, frequently turning 
the fish over in the seasoning. When about to dress the sturgeon, 
drain it upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture, and cut it up into 
heart-shaped or oval scollops, about the thickness of a quarter of an 
inch ; place these in a sautapan with some clarified butter, six ounces 
of scollops of truffles, some mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots 
chopped fine, and season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg ; fry 
the whole on a moderate fire, turning the scollops over when lightly 
browned on one side. When they are done, drain off the grease, 
pour in some finished sturgeon sauce (No. 56), toss the whole 
together over the fire for three minutes, dish the scollops up in the 
form of a dome, garnish round with a border of crayfish tails, and 
serve. 

1120. CUTLETS OF STURGEON, A LA BOURGUIGNOTTE. 

First steep the sturgeon as directed in the foregoing case ; then, 
cut it up into heart-shaped fillets, about the size and rather thicker 
than fillets of fowls : stick the claw of a crayfish into the pointed end 
of each cutlet, and place them in a curved form in a sautapan with 
some clarified butter : season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little 
lemon-juice. Fry the cutlets of a light-brown color on both sides ; 
pour off the grease, toss them in a little glaze, and dish them up in a 
close circle; fill the centre with some Bourguignotte ragout (No. 195), 
pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. 

1121. FILLETS OF SALMON, A L'AURORE. 

Cut about two pounds of salmon into oval fillets ; place these in a 
sautapan with some clarified butter, season with pepper, salt, a little 
chopped parsley, and lemon-juice ; fry them over the stove-fire for 



376 ENTREES OF FISH. 

five minutes, pour off nearly all the batter, and then mask each fillet 
with a thin coating of Allemande sauce (No. T) ; rub eight hard-boiled 
yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and spread this kind of vermicelli 
equally over all the fillets ; then pass the hot salamander over them 
to deepen the color of the yolk of egg, dish the fillets up in a close 
circle, fill the centre with a ragout of mushrooms, small quenelles, and 
muscles, tossed in some Aurora sauce (No. 41), pour some of it round 
the base, and serve. 

1122. FILLETS OF SALMON, A LA PARISIENNE. 

Cut these into the shape of fillets of fowls, season with a little 
pepper and salt, and mask them over with a coating of reduced Alle- 
mande sauce ; when this has become cold, bread-crumb them twice 
over in the usual manner, and put them in a sautapan with some 
clarified butter; fry the fillets over a brisk stove-fire, of a light color, 
and when done, drain, and dish them up in a close circle ; fill the 
centre with some ragout a la Parisienne (No. 203), pour some of the 
sauce round the base, and serve. 

1123. SALMON CUTLETES, A LA MAINTENON. 

Trim the salmon into fillets, as above, and place them in a sautapan 
with some clarified butter ; season with pepper and salt, grated nut- 
meg, chopped mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and two shalots, and fry 
them over a stove-fire for five minutes ; then add two gravy-spoou- 
fuls of Allemande sauce (No. 7), a small piece of glaze, and the juice 
of half a lemon ; simmer the whole together for two minutes longer 
and remove them from the fire. Cut as many sheets of small note- 
paper, into the shape of hearts^as there are cutlets; oil them over 
with a paste-brush, place one in each, divide the sauce equally, and 
then fold the edges down all round, by neatly and firmly twisting 
them under in pleats, so as thoroughly to prevent the sauce from 
escaping; place the cutlets upon a clean gridiron, over a clear fire of 
coke, of very moderate heat, and broil them without allowing the 
paper to burn ; dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre with 
fried parsley, and send some brown Italian sauce (No. 12) separately 
in a boat. 

1124. FILLETS OF TURBOT. 

These are described in the section treating of turbots dressed for 
removes, &c. (No. 405). 

1125. FILLETS OF GURNETS, WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Fillet the gurnets, remove the skin, and if the fish are large, 
divide each fillet into several pieces, so that they may not be larger 
than fillets of fowls; place them in a sautapan with clarified butter, 
season with pepper and salt, and place them in the oven, or over a 
stove-fire, to simmer for about five minutes, then turn them over, and 
when done on both sides, drain them upon a napkin, and dish them up 
in a close circle; fill the centre with small quenelle* of the same kind 
of fish, pour some caper sauce (No. 90) over the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of gurnets prepared and dished up as the alcove, may 
also be served with any of the following sauces: — Italian, EacigoUe, 
MaUre-d , hdtel, Oyster, Muscles, or Crayfish. 



FILLETS OF SOLES. 377 

1126. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA DIEPPOISE. 

Trim the fillets, and spread them on the outside with a preparation 
of fine-herbs, mixed with three yolks of eggs; then double them np, 
put them together, and insert the claw of a crayfish into the narrow 
end of each. Place the fillets in a sautapan thickly spread with butter, 
moisten with the liquor from the oysters used for the sauce, and season 
with a little mignionette-pepper and salt ; cover these with a circular 
piece of paper spread with butter, and set them to simmer gently over 
a stove-fire for about ten minutes ; when they are done, drain the fillets 
on a napkin, and dish them up in a close circle, showing the crayfish 
claws ; fill the centre, garnish the base of the entree with some Norman 
matelotte ragout (No. 194), and serve. 

1127. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Trim the fillets neatly, take hold of both ends (keeping the whitest 
side uppermost), and bring them together, one overlaying the other; 
then place them in a sautapan with some clarified butter, season with 
pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice, simmer them 
over the fire for ten minutes, and when done, drain and dish them up 
in a close circle ; pour some Maitre-d ''hotel sauce (No. 43) over them, 
and serve. 

Note. —Fillets of soles prepared as the foregoing, may also be served 
with either of the following sauces : — Ravigotte, Italian, Aurora, Pas- 
caline, Crayfish, Oyster, Shrimp, and Dutch. 

1128. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA VENITIENNE. 

Fillet fonr soles, trim the fillets, and place one half in a sautapan, 
with some clarified butter, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, in the manner 
directed in the foregoing case ; simmer the remainder (without trim- 
ming them) also with the same seasoning ; when they are done, drain 
them upon a plate, and allow these to cool. Then, cut up the latter 
into small dice, mix them with some reduced Allemande sauce, and 
season with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, mignionette-pepper 
and grated nutmeg ; spread this preparation out upon an earthen dish 
about the sixth part of an inch thick, and when it has become firm by 
cooling, cut it out into pieces about the size and shape of the fillets, 
and bread-crumb these in the usual manner. Just before sending to 
table, simmer the fillets over the stove, and fry the croquettes in plenty 
of clean hog's-lard, made hot for the purpose ; when done, drain both 
upon a napkin, and dish them in a close circle, placing alternately the 
croquettes and fillets; fill the centre with small quenelles of whitings, 
pour some Venetian sauce (No. 26) over these and the white fillets 
only, and serve. 

1129. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Trim the fillets of soles, divide each, and steep them for several 
hours in a basin with mignionette-pepper, a little salt, lemon-juice, 
Siilud-oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and two shalots. Then, drain the fillets on 
a cloth to absorb all the moisture, flour them over, dip them in some 
light batter (No. 231), and fry them in clean hog's-lard; when they 
have acquired a light color, drain them upon a napkin, dish them up, 



378 ENTREES OF FISH. 

pour either some Provengale, Dutch, Fine-herbs, Ravigotte, or Maitre 
d'HUel sauce under them, and serve. 

1130. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA HOELY. 

Trim the fillets of soles, and steep them for several honrs in the 
same kind of seasoning directed to be used for No. 1129 — substituting 
two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar for the lemon-juice. Drain the fil- 
lets on a cloth, in order to absorb the moisture, then shake them in 
some flour, drop them in some clean hog's-lard, and fry them of a light 
color ; drain the fillets upon a sieve covered with paper, dish them up 
in a pile, pour either some Tomata, Italian, Piquante, Ravigotte, or 
Provengale sauce round them, and serve. 

1131. FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA ROUENNAISE. 

Fillet three large soles, divide each across, and trim them in the 
shape of fillets of fowls; mask them over with a coating of d'Uxelles 
sauce (No. 16), and when this has become firm upon them by cooling, 
bread-crumb them twice over in the ordinary way ; stick a piece of the 
horns of a lobster into the narrow end of each fillet, so as to give them 
the appearance of cutlets, and place them in a sautapan, with some 
clarified butter. Fry the fillets of a bright-yellow color, on both 
sides; drain, and then dish them up in a close circle, fill the centre 
with a Rouennaise ragout (No. 197), and serve. 

1132s PAUPIETTES OF FILLETS OF SOLES, A LA CARDINAL. 

Trim the fillets of four large soles, spread them upon a napkin, gar- 
nish each with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with 
some lobster coral, and roll each fillet up in the form of a small barrel ; 
spread four sheets of letter-paper with butter, then place four paupietfrs 
in each, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, and roll them up tightly 
to keep them in shape. Place these rolls of paupiettes in a sautapan, 
and put them iu the oven to bake for about twenty minutes ; then re- 
move the papers, drain the paupiettes upon a napkin, pare off the ends 
with a sharp knife, and dish them up on their ends, side by side, in a 
close circle, so as to show the coral ; fill the centre with some Cardi- 
nal ragout (Xo. 200), pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and 
serve. 

1133. DOLPHINS OF WHITINGS, A LA PARISIENNE. 

Skin four fine fresh whitings, and remove the back-bones without 
detaching the fillets from the head ; roll out, and bake a circular piece 
of common paste, nearly the size of the bottom of the dish ; fasten 
thereon a pillar-shaped criaistade of fried bread three inches high, and 
one inch in diameter. Prepare some force-meat of whitings, colored 
with lobster coral, and mask the heads and fillets of whitings entirely 
with it, smoothing them over with a knife dipped in hot water; then 
turn the tail-ends of the fish, inwardly, down upon the centre of the 
head — giving to each the form of a heart ; place them upright against 
the croustade, with their heads resting flat upon the foundation of 
paste, and decorate them over with half-moons of black truffles, placed 
thereon so as to represent scales of fish; cover them with very thin 
layers of fat bacon, and encircle the entree with a baud of buttered 



FILLETS OF TROUT. 379 

paper, fastened with two pins : this must not touch the whitings. Bake 
the dolphins in a moderately-heated oven, for about forty minutes ; 
ascertain whether they are done through, and then remove the paper 
and bacon ; absorb all the grease, place them carefully upon their dish, 
garnish the entree with a ragout of button-mushrooms, oysters, and 
crayfish-tails ; surmount the whole with a large truffle, glaze the dol- 
phins with a little lobster coral diluted in the glaze, pour some 
Supreme sauce (No. 38), finished with an essence made from the 
bones and trimmings, round the entree, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of whitings may also be prepared according to the 
several directions given for dressing fillets of soles. 

1134. FILLETS OF TROUT, A LA CHEVALIERE. 

Divide the fillets of two good-sized trout into moderate-sized oval 
scollops or fillets ; mask them over with reduced d' Uxelles sauce (No. 
16), and bread-crumb them twice over this with bread-crumbs mixed 
with grated Parmesan cheese in the proportion of one-third ; the fillets 
must be first dipped in beaten egg, and then sprinkled with clarified 
butter, preparatory to their being bread-crumbed a second time. Fry 
them of a bright-yellow color, drain, and dish them up in a close circle, 
fill the centre with a ragout of soft roes of mackerel or herrings, and 
crayfish tails ; pour some Crayfish sauce (No. 54) round the entree, 
and serve. 

1135. FILLETS OF TROUT, A LA REGENCE. .^'J; 

Trim the fillets into pieces resembling fillets of fowls ; place them 
in a sautapan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, 
chopped parsley, and lemon-juice ; simmer the fillets over the fire for 
five minutes, turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain and 
dish them up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a ragout a la Eegence 
(No, 210), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serre. 

1136. EPIGRAMME OF FILLETS OF TROUT. 

Trim the fillets as above, bread-crumb one half, in the ordinary 
manner, and place these in a sautapan, with clarified butter ; put the 
remainder into another sautapan, with clarified butter, without being 
bread-crumbed, and season with pepper and salt. Fry the fillets, drain 
and dish them up in a close circle, placing one of each kind alter- 
nately ; fill the centre with some scollops of fillets of soles, tossed in a 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce, and some chopped and parboiled parsley ; 
pour some Aurora sauce (No. 41), over the plain fillets (taking care 
not to smear those that are bread-crumbed), pour some of it round the 
base, and serve. 

Note. — Fillets of plaice, flounders, and perch, may be dressed in the 
same manner as directed for fillets of soles or whitings. 

1137. FILLETS OF MACKEREL. 
See Mackerel (No. 480). 



380 



SECOND-COURSE ROASTS, 

COMPRISING 

Roast Hare. Roast Larks. 

„ Rabbits. „ Woodcocks, Ac. 

„ Pheasants. „ Capons. 

„ Partridges. „ Poulards. 

„ Quails. „ Green Goose. 

„ Ruffs and Reeves „ Ducklings. 

„ Ortolans. „ Pigeons. 

„ Wheatears. „ Black Game. 

„ Guinea-fowls. „ Pea-fowl. 

1138. ROAST HARE. 

Skin and draw the hare, leaving on the ears, which must be scalded, 
and the hairs scraped off ; pick out the eyes, and cut off the feet or 
pads, just above the first joint ; wipe the hare with a clean cloth, and 
cut the sinews at the back of the hind-quarters, and below the fore- 
legs. Prepare some veal stuffing, and fill the paunch with it; sew this 
up with string, or fasten it with a wooden skewer, then draw the 
legs under, as if the hare was in a sitting posture, set the head be- 
tween the shoulders, and stick a small skewer through them, running 
also thron<;h the neck, to secure its position ; run another skewer 
through the four legs gathered up under the paunch, then take a 
yard of string, double it in two, placing the centre of it on the breast 
of the hare, and bring both ends over the skewer, cross the string 
over both sides of the other skewer, and fasten it over the back. Spit 
the hare, and roast it before a brisk fire for about three-quarters of an 
hour, frequently bastiug it with butter or dripping. Five minutes 
before taking the hare up, throw on a little salt, shake some flour over 
it with a dredger, and baste it with some fresh butter ; when this froths 
up, and the hare has acquired a rich brown crust, take it off the spit, 
dish it up with water-cresses round it, pour some brown gravy under, 
and send some currant-jelly in a boat, to be handed round. 

1139. ROAST RABBITS. 

Truss these in the same manner as hares, then spit and roast them 
before a rather brisk fire, frequently basting them ; ten minutes before 
taking them up, baste the rabbits wilh the following preparation : — 
Mix a gill of cream with a table-spoonful of flour, some chopped pars- 
ley, two yolks of eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mask the rabbits 
entirely with this, and as soon as it has dried on them, baste them 
with some fresh butter. This not only adds to the attractive appear- 
ance of the rabbits, but it concentrates their gravy, and prevents them 
from becoming dry, which too generally occurs when roasted accord- 
ing to the common practice. When done, take the rabbits up with 
care, to avoid breaking off the light-brown crust formed upon them ; 
dish them up, pour some sauce prepared as follows, under them, and 
serve. 

Boil the livers, chop them fine, and put them into a small stewpan 
with chopped parsley, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a spoon 
ful of sauce, pepper, aud salt, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and a spoon- 



ROAST PHEASANTS, PARTRIDGES, ETC. 381 

fnl of gravy ; stir this over the fire until it boils, and use it as directed 
above. * 

1140. ROAST PHEASANT. 

Draw the pheasant by making a small opening at the vent, make an 
incision along the back-part of the neck, loosen the pouch, &c, with 
the fingers, and then remove it ; singe the body of the pheasant and its 
legs over the flame of a charcoal-fire, or with a piece of paper ; rub the 
scaly cuticle off the legs with a cloth, trim away the claws and spurs, 
cut off the neck close up to the back, leaving the skin of the breast 
entire, wipe the pheasant clean, and then truss it in the following mauner : 
Place the pheasant upon its breast, run a trussing-needle and string 
through the left pinion, (the wings being removed), then turn the bird 
over on its back, and place the thumb and fore-finger of the left hand 
across the breast, holding the legs erect ; thrust the needle through 
the middle joint of both thighs, draw it out and then pass it through 
the other pinion, and fasten the strings at the back ; next, pass the 
needle through the hollow of the back, just below the thighs, thrust it 
again through the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly : this will 
uive it an appearance of plumpness. Spit and roast the pheasant before 
a brisk fire, for about half an hour, frequently basting it ; when done, 
send to table with brown gravy under it and bread sauce (No. 80), 
separately, in a boat. 

1141. ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

These should be trussed, roasted, and served in the same manner as 
pheasants. Sometimes, for the sake of variety, both pheasants and 
partridges are larded in the same way as sweetbreads, but the practice 
is not geuerally liked. 

1142. ROAST QUAILS. 
Draw and truss these in the manner directed for pheasants ; cut 
some thin square layers of fat bacon, just large enough to cover a quail, 
spread a vine-leaf over each of these, cut it to their size, and then tie 
them neatly on the breasts of the quails. Run an iron skewer through 
the quails, fasten this on to a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire, 
for about a quarter of an hour, then dish them up with water-cresses 
round them, glaze the layers of bacon, pour some gravy under the 
quails, and serve. 

1143. RUFFS AND REEVES. 

These birds must not be drawn, neither do they require much truss- 
ing, being very plump ; a small wooden skewer should be run through 
the thighs and pinions, with a string passed round it, and fastened ; 
cover these also with a layer of bacon and a vine-leaf, run them upon 
a lark-spit, and roast them before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, 
frequently basting them with butter, and set some toasted bread under 
them, to receive their droppings. When done, dish them up on square 
pieces of the toast, garnish with water-cresses, pour some gravy under 
them, and serve the following sauce separately in a boat : — A ragout- 
spoonful of good butter-sauce (No. 70), a piece of glaze, Cayenne 
pepper, and lemon-juice. 

Ortolans and Wheatears are served in the same manner as the 
foregoing. 



382 SECOND-COURSE ROASTS. 

1144. ROAST LARKS. 

Cut off the heads and legs, and pick out the gizzards at the sides 
with the point of a small knife; season with chopped parsley, pepper 
and salt, and nutmeg ; nib the larks over with beaten yolks of eggs, 
bread-crumb them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and roll them in 
bread-crumbs a second time ; then run them on a lark-spit ; fasten this 
on a common spit, and roast them before a very brisk fire, for about a 
quarter of an hour, basting them with fresh butter melted in a spoon 
before the fire. When done, dish them up in rows, or in a circle, fill 
the centre with bread-crumbs fried of a light-brown color in a sautapan 
with butter, and serve them with the sauce recommended for ruffs and 
reeves. 

1145. WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. 

These are both trussed and roasted in the same manner. First, pick 
them entirely, neck and head, then twist the legs at the joints, so as to 
bring the feet down upon the thighs ; run their bill through the thighs 
and body, and fasten a noose with string round the bend of the joints, 
across the lower part of the breast ; bring both ends round the head 
and tip of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the woodcocks 
with layers of bacon, and tie these round with string ; roast them before 
the fire, for about five-and-twenty minutes, frequently basting them with 
butter or dripping ; place some toasted bread under the birds, to 
receive the droppings from the trail, and when they are done, dish 
them up with a piece of the toast under each, and water-cresses round 
them. Serve some extract of woodcocks (No. 173) separately, in a 
boat. 

1146. BOAST CAPONS. 

Draw and truss these as directed for trussing pheasants ; place them 
upon a spit, fasten the feet to it with string, to prevent the capon from 
twisting round while roasting : about three quarters of an hour will 
suffice to roast them. When done, dish them up with water-cresses, 
pour some bright gravy under them, and serve with bread-sauce in a 
boat. 

Poulards, fowls, chickens, and turkey poults, are treated in the same 
manner as the foregoing. 

1147. GREEN-GOOSE. 

Draw the goose, pick off all the stubble-feathers, scald the legs, and 
rub off the skin with a cloth ; cut the tips of the feet, and twist the legs 
round so as to let the web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs ; then 
truss the goose in the ordinary way, as directed for pheasants. Place 
it on a spit, and roast it before a brisk fire, for about three quarters of 
an hour ; when done, dish it up with water-cresses round it, pour some 
gravy under, and serve. 

Ducklings are roasted and served in the same way as the above. 

1148. ROAST PIGEONS. 

Truss these with thin layers of fat bacon and a vine-leaf over the 
breasts ; roast them before the fire for about twenty minutes, and when 
done, dish them up with a sauce made with the livers, in the manner 
directed for making liver-sauce for rabbits (No. 1139). 



GROUSE AND GUINEA-FOWLS. 



383 



1149. ROAST RLACK-GAME, AND GROUSE. 

Both these should be trussed in the same manner as pheasants, 
then roasted before a brisk fire, and five minutes before taking them up 
should be frothed with flour and butter, according to the directions for 
roast hare ; when done, dish them up with gravy under them, and send 
to table with fried bread-crumbs, and bread- sauce, in separate sauce- 
boats. 

1150a. PEAHENS. 

Truss these in the same way as pheasants, except that the head 
must be left adhering to the skin of the breast, and fastened at the 
side of the thigh ; let the peahen be closely larded all over the breast, 
and roasted before a moderate fire for about an hour ; when nearly 
clone, glaze the larding, and on removing the fowl from the fire, dish 
up with water-cresses, pour some gravy under, and serve with bread- 
sauce separately, in a sauce-boat. 

1150&. GUINEA-FOWLS. 

Two of these are generally served for a dish, one of which should 
be larded, and the other covered with a layer of fat bacon ; roast them 
before a brisk fire for about forty minutes, glaze and dish them up 
with water-cresses : pour some gravy under, and serve bread-sauce 
separately, in a boat. 



VEGETABLES FOR ENTREMETS, OR SECOND-COURSE 

DISHES, 



COMPRISING 



Braized Celery, with Espagnole sauce. 
Celery, d la Villeroi. 
Sulsifis, d la Crime. 

„ fried in Batter. 
Spinach, with Butter. 

„ with Cream. 
Endive, with Cream. 
Cauliflowers, with White Sauce. 

„ with Parmesan Cheese, 

Tomatas, d la Provencale. 
Mushrooms, ait gratin. 
Large Truffles, d la Serviette. 
Truffles, d la Piimontaise. 
Portugal Onions, d I'Espagnole. 
Artichokes, with Butter Sauce. 

„ d la Barigoule. 

„ d la Lyonnaise. 

„ a V Italihnne. 

Asparagus, with White Sauce. 
Asparagus Peas, ft la Crime. 
French Beans, d la Maitre-d'hStel. 



French Beans, with Fine-herbs. 
Broad Beans, d la Crime. 
Green Peas, plain. 
Stewed Peas. 
Peas, d la Francaise. 
Turnips glacis, with Sugar. 
Young Carrots, d V Allemande. 
Vegetable Marrow. 
Another Method. 
Cucumbers, d la Poulette. 
„ d I'Espagnole. 

Jerusalem Artichokes, d la Sauce. 

„ d I'ltalienne. 

White Haricot Beans, d la Maitre-d'h6tel. 

„ d la Britonne. 

American Yams, d la Francaise. 
Potatoes, d la Maitre-d'hStel. 
New Potatoes, d la Crime. 
Potatoes, d la Crime, au gratin. 
Seakale, d la Sauce. 
Brussels Sprouts. 



1151. BRAIZED CELERY, WITH ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 

Clean twelve heads of celery, cut them about six inches in length, 
and trim the roots neatly ; parboil them in water for ten minutes, 



384 SECOND-COURSE DISHES. 

and then immerse them in cold water ; drain them on a sieve, and 
afterward place them in a stewpan with some blanc (No. 235), and 
braize them gently over a slow fire for abont an hour ; when done, 
drain them upon a napkin, trim and dish them up in the following 
order : — First, place five heads of celery the same way in the dish, 
then four, two, and one, respectively ; garnish round with some small 
circular croustades of fried bread, about an inch in diameter, and filled 
with beef marrow, previously boiled for three mintftes in water with a 
little salt, and afterward tossed in a stewpan with a little liquid glaze, 
lemon-juice, pepper, and salt ; pour some bright Espagnole sauce (in- 
corporated with a pat of butter and a little lemon-juice) over the 
celery, and serve. 

1152. CELERY, A LA VILLEROI. 

Braize eight heads of celery in the manner described in the pre- 
vious article, and when done, drain it upon a napkin to absorb all the 
moisture ; split each head into halves, mask them with some reduced 
AUemande sauce (No. 7), and place them upon an earthen dish to 
become cold. They must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, afterward 
dipped in beaten eggs, and bread-crumbed over again. Just before 
sending to table, place the pieces of celery carefully upon the wire 
lining of a frying-pan, immerse them in plenty of clean hog's-lard 
heated for the purpose, and fry them of a bright-yellow color ; drain 
them upon a cloth, dish them up on a napkin with some fried parsley, 
and serve. 

1153. SALSIFIS, A LA CREME. 

Scrape off the outside part ujitil the salsifis become white, and 
throw them into a pan containing cold water, mixed with a twentieth 
part of vinegar or lemon-juice, to prevent them from losing their white- 
ness, then boil them in hot water, with a little butter, mignionette- 
pepper, salt, lemon-juice, or vinegar. When done, drain them on a 
sieve, cut them up into inch lengths, and put them into a stewpan 
with a ragot^-spoonful of cream Bechamel sauce (No. 6), a pat of 
butter, a little mignionette-pepper and lemon-juice ; toss them over the 
fire, and dish them up in the form of a dome ; place some croutons of 
fried bread or Jieurons round the dish, and serve 

1154. SALSIFIS, FRIED IN BATTER. 

Prepare the salsifis as above, and when done, drain and cut them 
into pieces about three inches long; put these into a basin with two 
table-spoonfuls of oil, one of French vinegar, some mignionette-pepper 
and salt; allow them to steep in this until within about ten minutes 
before sending them to table; they must then be drained upon a 
napkin, dipped in some light-made batter, and fried in hog's-lard made 
hot for the purpose ; when done, drain them on a cloth, d ; sh them up 
on a napkin with fried parsley, and serve. 

1155. SPINACH, WITH BUTTER. 

Pick all the stalks from the spinach, wash it in several waters, and 
drain it upon a sieve; throw it into a stewpan of hot water with a 
handful of salt, and keep it boiling until it becomes thoroughly tender 
and soft to the touch ; then drain it in a colander, immerse it in cold 






VEGETABLES FOR ENTREMETS.. 385 

water, and afterward squeeze all the water from it. The spinach 
must next be carefully turned over with the point of a knife, to remove 
any straws or stalks that may have been overlooked ; it should then be 
chopped or pounded in a mortar, rubbed through a coarse wire sieve, 
and placed in a stevvpan with about two ounces of butter, a little salt, 
and grated nutmeg ; stir the spinach over a stove-fire with a wooden 
spoon until it becomes quite warm, then add a gravy-spoonful of good 
sauce, a small piece of glaze, and about four ounces of fresh butter. 
Work the whole together, with a wooden spoon, until well mixed, then 
pile the spinach up in the centre of the dish, garnish it round with 
croutons, and serve. \_ 

1156. SPINACH, WITH CREAM. 

Prepare the spinach as above, season with a little nutmeg, salt, 
and two ounces of fresh butter; stir it oyer a stove -fire until quite 
warm, then add a gill of double cream, two pats of butter, and a 
good dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar ; work the whole well together 
over the fire, and dish up the spinach as directed in the foregoing 
article. 

1157. ENDIVE, WITH CREAM. 

Pick off all the outer leaves, leaving only the white ; trim the 
roots, and wash the endive in several waters, carefully removing any 
insects that may be concealed in the inner folds of the leaves. Put a 
large stewpan half filled with water on a brisk fire, and when it boils, 
throw in the eudives, with a handful of salt, and allow them to con- 
tinue boiling fast until they become quite tender ; drain them in a 
colander, immerse them iu plenty of cold water, then squeeze all the 
moisture from them, and place them on a sieve. Next, take each 
head of endive separately, cut off the root, and again look over the 
leaves, spreading them on the table with the point of a knife ; when 
this is completed, chop them very fine, and pass them through a 
coarse wire sieve. Then, place them in a stevvpan with a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt ; stir this 
over the fire for ten minutes, add half a piut of double cream, a gravy- 
spoonful of Bechamel or Veloute sauce, s and a dessert-spoonful of 
pounded sugar; keep the endives boiling on a stove-fire until suffi- 
ciently reduced so as to be able to pile them on a dish when sending 
to table ; garnish round with croutons or fleurom, and serve. 

1158. CAULIFLOWERS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Remove the green stalks, divide them, if large, into quarters, and 
with the point of a small knife pick out all the small leaves; wash the 
cauliflowers, and boil them in hot water, with a little mignionette- 
pepper, a pat of butter, and some salt: when done, drain them upon a 
sieve. Next, take a round-bottomed quart basin, and fill it with the 
cauliflowers, placing the flowerets next the sides, that the white only 
may show when dished up ; previously to turning them out upon 
the dish, drain them again on a napkin, by turning the basin up- 
side down upon it ; after which, turn the cauliflowers out into their 
dish, pour some white sauce (No. 71) over them, garnish with fleurons, 
and serve. 
24 



386 SECOND-COURSE DISHES. 

1159. CAULIFLOWERS, WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Prepare and dish up the cauliflowers as directed above. Put a 
large ragout-spoonful of Bechamel or Veloute sauce, into a stewpan, 
with four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of fresh 
butter, the yolks of four eggs, a small piece of glaze, some lemon-juice, 
nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir this preparation over a stove-fire, until 
it be well mixed, without boiling ; then, pour it on to the cauliflowers, 
so as to mask them entirely with it. Smooth the dome over with the 
blade of a knife, and cover the top with a coating of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; place them in the oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an 
hour ; wheu they have acquired a bright-yellow color, put a border of 
croutons of fried bread round the base, and serve. 

The croutons may be stuck round the bottom of the dish in the form 
of a coronet, previously to dishing up the cauliflowers, so as to prevent 
them from spreading. 

1160. TOMATAS, A LA PROVENCALE. 

Slice off that part of the tomata that adheres to the stalk, scoop 
out the seeds without breaking the sides of the fruit, and place this in 
circular order in a sautapan, containing about a gill of salad oil. Next, 
chop up half a pottle of mushrooms, a handful of parsley, and four 
shalots ; put these into a stewpan with two ounces of scraped fat 
bacon, and an equal proportion of lean ham, either chopped or grated 
fine ; season with pepper and salt, and a little chopped thyme. Fry 
these over the stove-fire for about five minutes ; then, mix in the yolks 
of four eggs, fill the tomatas with this preparation, shake some light- 
colored raspings of bread ovei^. them, and place them over a brisk 
stove-fire, holding a red-hot salamander over them for about ten 
minutes, by which time they will be done; dish them up in the form 
of a dome, pour some brown Italian sauce (No. 12) rouud the base, 
and serve. 

1161. MUSHROOMS, AU GRATTN. 

Punnet, or large mushrooms, must be used for this purpose. Cut 
the stalks, trim the edges, and remove the skin, then fill each mush- 
room with a similar preparation to that directed to be used for 
tomatas a la Proven(;ah> ; shake some raspings of bread over them, 
place them in a sautapan, thickly spread with butter; put them in the 
oven for about a quarter of an hour to gratinate, and then dish them 
up in a pyramidal form; pour some brown Italian sauce rouud them, 
and serve. 

1162. LARGE TRUFFLES, A LA SERVIETTE. 

When the truffles have been thoroughly cleansed by brushing the 
mould off in water, drain them in a sieve, then place them in a stew- 
pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; pour some wine mirepoim (No. 
236) on them, place some layers of bacon on the top, and set them to 
boil on the stove-fire; the lid must then be put on, and hermetically 
closed round with stiff flour-and-water paste to conceutrate the flavor 
of the truffles. Allow them to simmer gently by the side of a slow- 
fire, or in the oven, for about three-quarters of an hour, then dish 



ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 387 

them in the folds of a napkin, and send the following sauce separately 
in a sance-boat : — Mix a gill of the finest salad-oil with a table-spoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, some mignionette-pepper, 
a little salt, and two table-spoonfuls of half-glaze (made by boiling 
down about a gill of the nxirepoix in which the truffles have been 
boiled), which send to table in a sauce-boat. 

1163. TRUFFLES, A LA PIEMONTAISE. 

Cut half a pound of fresh truffles into scollops, place them in a santa- 
pan with two table- spoonfuls of Lucca-oil, one of chopped parsley, a 
little chopped thyme, a clove of garlic, some mignionette-pepper and 
salt ; fry them over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes, remove the garlic, 
then add a gravy-spoonful of Italian or Espagnole sauce, a small 
piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together 
over the fire, and pour it over the hollow crusts of two French rolls, 
from which the top crust part has been removed, then thickly spread 
with butter, and afterward /laced in the oven for ten minutes to 
become crisp. 

1164. PORTUGAL ONIONS, A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Peel the onions, and stamp out the cores with a long vegetable- 
cutter about a quarter of an inch in diameter ; parboil them in water, 
for ten minutes, and then drain them upon a cloth. Spread the bottom 
of a deep sautapan with butter, place the onions in it, moisten with 
broth sufficient to just cover them, and set them to boil gently over a 
slow fire, occasionally turning them in their liquor; when they are 
nearly done, add a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, boil them down 
quickly to a glaze, and when this is done, roll the onions in it, and dish 
them up in a close circle. Next, pour a gravy-spoonful of puree of 
fresh tomatas, and an equal quantity of bright Espagnole sauce into 
the remainder of the glaze, boil this together over the stove-fire, pour 
it round the onions, and serve. 

Note. — These onions afe better adapted for garnishing removes of 
braized beef, &c, than for being served as a second-course dish. 

1165. ARTICHOKES, WITH BUTTER SAUCE. 

Trim the bottoms of six artichokes, cut off the tips of the leaves, 
and boil them in water with a little salt, for about three-quarters of an 
hour; when done, drain them upon a sieve, and immerse them in cold 
water for five minutes ; loosen the fibrous substance in the inside with 
the handle of a table-spoon, and after this has been all removed from 
the artichokes, put them back into some hot water for a few minutes to 
warm them through; drain them upside down upon a napkin to absorb 
all the moisture, and then dish them up on a napkin ; pour a little 
butter sauce (No. 11) inside each, and send up some of the sauce in a 
boat. 

1166. ARTICHOKES, A LA BARIGOULE. 

Trim six small artichokes, and with the handle of an iron table- 
spoon, scoop out all the fibrous part inside. Put about a pound of 



388 ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 

clean hog's-lard into a frying-pan on the fire, and when quite hot, fry 
the bottoms of the artichokes in it for about three minutes, then turn 
them upside-down, and fry the tips of the leaves also ; drain them upon 
a cloth to absorb all the grease, and fill them with a similar prepara- 
tion to that directed for tomatas a la Provencale (No. 1160); cover 
them over with layers of fat bacon, tie them up with string, and place 
them in a large stewpan or fricandeau pan lined with thin layers of fat 
bacon ; moisten with half a tumbler of white wine, and a little good 
consomme, or with some wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; put the lid on, and 
after they have boiled up on the stove-fire, place them in the oven to 
simmer very gently for about an hour. When done, drain them upon 
a cloth, remove the strings and the bacon, fill the centre of each arti- 
choke with some Italian sauce (Xo. 12), dish them up with some of the 
sauce in a boat, and serve. 

1167. ARTICHOKES, A LA LYONNAISE. 

Pull off the lower leaves without damaging the bottoms of the 
artichokes, which must be turned smooth with a sharp knife; cut the 
artichokes into quarters, remove the fibrous parts, trim them neatly 
and parboil them in water with a little salt, for about five minutes ; 
then drain them in a colander, and immerse them in cold water, after 
which drain them upon a cloth, and arrange them in circular order in 
a sautapan thickly spread with about four ounces of fresh butter; strew 
a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar over this, season with mignionette- 
pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, and a gravy- 
spoonful of good consomme, and place them on a slow fire to simmer 
very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care that they 
do not burn. When done, they should be of a deep yellow color and 
nicely glazed ; dish them up in the form of a dome, showing the 
bottom of the artichokes only ; remove any leaves that may have 
broken off in the sautapan, add a rago «/-spoonful of bright Espagnole 
sauce, two pats of butter, and some lemon-juice ; simmer this over the 
stove-fire, stirring it meanwhile with a spoon, and when the butter 
has been mixed in with the sauce, pour ft> over the artichokes, and 
serve. 

1168. ARTICHOKES, A L'lTALIENNE. 

These are prepared in the manner described in the foregoing article, 
except that when about to finish them, browu Italian sauce (No. 12) 
must be substituted for Espagnole. 

1169. ASPARAGUS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Pick the loose leaves from the heads, and scrape the stalks clean, 
wash them in a pan of cold water, tie them up in bundles of about 
twenty in each, keeping all the heads turned the same way ; cut the 
stalks even, leaving them about eight inches long. Put the asparagus 
in hot water with a small handful of salt in it, to boil for about twenty 
minutes, and when done, drain them carefully upon a napkin to avoid 
breaking off the heads; dish them up on a square thick piece of toasted 
bread dipped iu the water they have been boiled in, and send to table 
with some white sauce (Xo. 71) separately in a sauce-boat. 



ASPARAGUS, AND FRENCH BEANS. 389 

1170. ASPARAGUS-PEAS, A LA CREME. 

Boil a quart of asparagus-peas in plenty of water and a handful of 
salt : the water must boil before the peas are put in ; when they are 
done, drain them in a colander, immerse them in cold water for three 
minutes', and then drain them upon a sieve. Next place the aspara- 
gus-peas in a stewpan with a small faggot of green onions and parsley, 
two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of pounded sugar, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt; put the lid on and set them to simmer gently 
over a slow fire for ten minutes. Then remove the faggot of parsley 
and if there be any liquor in the peas, boil it down quickly, and in- 
corporate with them two small pats of fresh butter, and a leason of 
four yolks of eggs, mixed with half a gill of cream ; toss the peas over 
a stove-fire to set the leason in them, and dish them up in the form 
of a dome, with a border of Jleurons round them, and serve. 

1171. FRENCH-BEANS, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Pick and string the beans, cut them up, and shred each bean into 
three or four strips ; wash them in plenty of water, drain them in a 
colander, and throw them into a stewpan containing boiling water and 
a handful of salt, and boil them briskly until they become tender : 
they must be drained in a colander, then immersed in cold water for 
five minutes, and drained upon a napkin to absorb all the moisture. 
Next, put a gravy-spoonful of Bechamel or Supreme sauce into a stew- 
pan with four ounces of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped and 
parboiled parsley, a very little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, salt and 
the juice of half a lemon ; stir these well together over the stove-fire, 
and when perfectly mixed throw in the beans, and toss the whole 
together over the fire until quite hot ; then dish them up with a 
border of crdutons round them and serve. 

1172. FRENCH-BEANS, WITH FINE HERBS. 

Boil the beans as directed in the foregoing case. Put two pats of 
fresh butter into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped and 
parboiled parsley, and two shalots also chopped, a little nutmeg, 
mignionette-pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon ; simmer this 
over a stove-fire until melted, and then throw the beans in, toss the 
whole together, and dish them up with croutons round them. 

1173. BROAD-BEANS, A LA CREME. 

For this purpose the beans must be young. Boil them in water, 
with a faggot of parsley and some salt ; when done, drain them in a 
colander, put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, 
some chopped parsley, and as much chopped winter-savory as will 
cover the tip of a spoon, with pepper, salt and nutmeg; toss the 
beans over the fire for five minutes, and then incorporate with them 
a leason of four yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon ; when 
the leason has become set in the beans, dish them up with JleurOus 
round them and serve. 

1174. GREEN PEAS, PLAIN. 

Put the peas into boiling water with some salt and a bunch of 
green mint ; keep them boiling briskly for about twenty minutes, and 



390 ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 

when done, drain them in a colander, dish thera up with chopped 
boiled mint on the top, and send some small pats of very fresh butter 
separately on a plate. 

1175. STEWED PEAS. 

Put a quart of young peas into a pan, with four ounces of butter 
and plenty of cold water ; rub the peas and butter together with the 
fingers, until well mixed, then pour off the water, and put the peas 
into a stewpan, with a couple of cabbage-lettuces shred small, a faggot 
of green-onions and parsley, a desert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and 
a little salt ; put the lid on, and set the peas to stew very gently over 
a slow fire for about half an hour ; when done, if there appears to be 
much liquor, boil it down quickly over the fire. Next put about two 
ounces of fresh butter on a plate, with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and 
knead them together ; put this into the peas, and toss the whole 
together over the stove-fire until well mixed ; dish the peas up, gar- 
nish round with fleurons, and serve. 

1176. PEAS, A LA FRANCAISE. 

These must be prepared as above (No. 1175), omitting the lettuces ; 
stew them in the same manner, and when done, add a little light 
colored glaze, and finish with four ounces of kneaded butter and 
flour, with a little more sugar than in the foregoing case. 

1177. TURNIPS, GLACES WITH SUGAR. 

Turn about two dozen pieces of turnips into the form of rings, 
about two inches in diameter, or ,glse in the shape of small pears ; 
put them into a deep sautapan, thickly spread with fresh butter, and 
strewn with about two ounces of pounded sugar ; moisten with about 
half a pint of good consomme, and set the turnips to simmer very gently 
over a moderate stove-fire for about forty minutes ; when they are 
nearly done, remove the lid, and place them over a brisk fire to boil 
the moisture down to glaze, gently rolling the turnips in this, with 
great care, to avoid breaking them. They must then be dished up in 
neat order, and the glaze poured over them. 

1178. YOUNG CARROTS, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Turn two bunches of spring carrots, keeping their original shape, 
but making them equal in size ; parboil them in water with a little 
salt for about ten minutes ; then drain them into a colander, and 
immerse them in cold water, afterward drain them again, and lay 
them upon a napkin. Next place the carrots in a deep sautapan 
with two ounces of fresh butter, an equal proportion of loaf sugar, 
and about a pint of good consomme ; put the lid on, and set the carrots 
to boil very gently over a moderate stove-fire for about half an hour ; 
then set them to boil briskly until their liquor is reduced to glaze, 
when they must be gently rolled in this, and dished up in a round- 
bottomed quart basin, so as to form a perfect dome when turned out 
upon the dish ; pour round some Allemande sauce (No. 7) mixed with 
some chopped and parboiled parsley, also the remainder of their glaze 
over the carrots, and serve. 



CUCUMBERS, ETC. 391 

1179. VEGETABLE-MARROW. 

Cut the vegetable-marrows, according to their size, into four, six, or 
eight pieces, just as oranges are divided ; peel, and trim them neatly, 
place them in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter, and season 
with a very little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonful 
of pounded sugar ; moisten with half a pint of white broth, and set 
them to boil gently over a stove-fire for about ten minutes ; then boil 
them down in their glaze ; toss them gently in this, and dish them up 
neatly in a conical form. Pour a little Etpagnole sauce into the 
sautapan, and simmer it with the remainder of the glaze ; mix in a pat 
of butter and the juice of half a lemon, pour this over the vegetable- 
marrow, and serve. 

1180. ANOTHER METHOD. 

Trim the vegetable-marrows as above, boil them gently in water 
with a pat of butter and a little salt, drain and dish them up, pour 
some white sauce (No. 11) or Bechamel (No. 5) over them, and serve. 

1181. CUCUMBERS, A LA POULETTE. 

Cut the cucumbers into scollops about an inch in diameter, put them 
into a basin with a table-spoonful of salt, and twice that proportion of 
vinegar, and allow them to steep in this for several hours. Then, pour 
off all the moisture from the cucumbers, and put them into a stewpan 
with two ounces of fresh butter, a very little grated nutmeg, and a des- 
sert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and set them to simmer very gently 
over a slow fire until they become quite tender ; this will require about 
half an hour. The butter must then be poured off, and a gravy- spoon- 
ful of Veloute sauce (No. 4) added ; simmer the cucumbers over the 
fire for a few minutes, finish by incorporating with them a leason of 
four yolks of eggs, mixed with half a gill of cream, a spoonful of chop- 
ped and parboiled parsley, and the juice of half a lemon ; dish them up 
with a border of Jleurons, and serve. 

1182. CUCUMBERS, A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Cut the cucumbers into lengths of about two inches, scoop out all 
the seeds, pare off the skins, and trim them round and smooth at the 
ends ; parboil them in water and salt for five minutes, and then drain 
them upon a napkin. Fill each piece of cucumber with some quenelle 
force-meat of chicken (No. 242) ; then, place them in neat order in a 
deep sautapan, lined with thin layers of fat bacon, and cover them also 
with the same; moisten with consomme, and set them to simmer very 
gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; when they are become 
quite tender, drain them upon a cloth, dish them up in a pyramidal 
form, pour some bright Uspagnole sauce (No. 3) over them, and serve. 

1183. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A LA SAUCE, 

Wash them thoroughly in plenty of water, peel or turn them in the 
form of large olives or small pears ; boil them in water with a pat of 
butter and a little salt, for about a quarter of an hour ; when done, 
drain them upon a cloth, dish them up neatly, pour some butter sauce 
(No. Tl) over them, and serve. 



392 ENTREMETS OF VEGETABLES. 

1184. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Turn the artichokes into any fancy shape, place them in circular 
order in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter; season with mig- 
nionette-pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon-juice ; moisten with a little 
consomme, put the lid on, set them to simmer very gently over a slow 
fire for about half an hour, — during which time they will, if properly 
attended to, acquire a deep-yellow color. Boil them up in their glaze, 
dish them up, pour some Italian sauce (No. 12) round them, and serve. 

1185. WHITE HARICOT-BEANS, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL 

These are seldom to be met with in England, except in a dried state ; 
wnen procurable, they should be treated in the following manner : — 

Put a large stewpan, half filled with water, on the stove-fire to boil ; 
then throw in the beans, with a pat of butter and a little salt, and allow 
them to boil until they are become quite tender ; drain them in a co- 
lander ; then put them into a stewpan with about 6 oz. of fresh butter, 
a little pepper' and salt, some chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; toss 
them whole well together over a stove-fire, until well mixed ; then dish 
them up with croutons round them, and serve. 

Note. — When the haricot-beans are in a dried state, they should be 
steeped in cold water for six hours at least, previously to their being 
dressed for the table, and must be boiled in cold water ; in all other 
respects, finish them in the above manner. 

1186. WHITE HARICOT-BEANS, A LA BRETONNE. 

Boil the haricot-beans as directed above, and when done, drain them 
in a colander, put them into a stewpan with some Bretonne sauce (No. 
27), and set them to simmer over the stove-fire for five minutes; toss 
them together, and dish them up as the above. 

1187. AMERICAN YAMS, A LA FRANCAISE. 

Cut the yams into slices about half an inch thick, trim them into 
rather large oval-shaped scollops, and throw them into a panful of 
water ; wash and drain them upon a cloth, then place them in circular 
order in a deep sautapan, thickly spread with 4 oz. of fresh butter, and 
season with a little grated nutmeg and salt ; moisten with a pint of 
broth or warer, put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently over a 
slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to turn them 
over, in order that they may acquire a bright-yellow glazed color on 
both sides; dish them up in close circular order, piled up in rows; 
pour the following sauce under them and serve : — Knead two pats of 
fresh butter with a dessert-spoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with 
a gill of cream, a spoonful of pounded sugar, a very little salt, and a 
tea-spoonful of orange-flower water ; stir this over the fire until it 
thickens, and then use it as directed. 

1188. POTATOES, A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

The small French kidney, or F7/Wo//e-potatoes, are best adapted for 
this purpose ; boil or steam them in the ordinary way, and when done, 
cut them into slices about the eighth of an inch thick, put them into 



POTATOES, ETC. 393 

a stewpan with a ragout-spoonful of white sauoe or broth, 4oz. of butter, 
some pepper and salt, choppedparsley, and lemon-juice ; toss them over 
the stove-fire until the butter, &c, is mixed in with the potatoes, then, 
dish them up with croutons; round them, and serve. 

1189. NEW POTATOES, A LA CKEME. 

Cut some recently-boiled new potatoes in slices, put them into a stew- 
pan with a gill of cream, 4oz. of fresh butter, a very little nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; set them to boil on the 
stove-fire, toss them well together, and dish them up with croutons. 

1190. POTATOES, A LA CREME, AU GRATIN. 

Cut some boiled potatoes in slices, about an inch in diameter, pre- 
pare the same kind of mixture as directed for cauliflowers au gratin 
(No. 1159) : stick some neatly-cut pointed croutons of fried bread 
round the bottom of the dish, in the form of a coronet ; place a close 
circular row of the slices of potatoes within this border of croutons; 
spread a layer of the mixture over them : then, repeat the row of 
potatoes and the mixture until the dish is complete. Smooth the top 
over with some of the sauce, shake some fried bread-crumbs and grated 
Parmesan cheese over the surface, so as entirely to cover it : put the 
potatoes in the oven for about twenty minutes, to be warmed through, 
and serve. 

1191. SEAKALE, A LA SAUCE. 

Tie the seakale up in small bundles, and put it in boiling water with 
a little salt : about twenty minutes will suffice to boil it tender : drain 
and dish it up on a piece of toast, and send some butter sauce (No. 11) 
separately in a boat. 

Note. — Seakale may also be served with Espagnole or Bechamel 
sauce, in which case it must be placed in the dish, and the Bechamel 
or Espagnole sauce poured over it : if the latter, a pat of butter and 
a little lemon-juice should be first worked in with it. 

1192. BRUSSELS-SPROUTS. 

Boil the sprouts green, put them into a stewpan with 4oz. of fresh 
butter, some mignionette-pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon-juice, and a 
7*a<70w£-spoonful of Veloute sauce (No. 4) ; toss the whole well together 
over a stove-fire until the butter is incorporated with them ; then, dish 
them up with a border of Jleurons, and serve. 



394 



ENTREMETS OF EGGS, ETC., 

COMPRISING 

Eggs, d >a Tripe. Eggs, a la Suisse. 

„ au gratin. Maccaroni, a I'ltalienne. 

,, Brouilles with Truffles, Ac. „ with Cream. 

Omelet, with Fine-herbs. „ on gratin. 

„ with Shalots. „ d la Florentine. 

„ with Parmesan Cheese. Nouilles, d la Palerme. 

„ with Kidneys. „ d la Vanille. 

„ with Oysters. Indian Sandwiches. 

Poached Eggs, with Anchovy Toast. Anchovy Sandwiches. 

„ with Ham. Italian Salad. 

Eggs, d la Dauphine. Russian Snlad. 

,, VAurore. German Salad. 

„ with Nutbrown Butter. Noukles, or Niochi, d la Viennois«. 

1193. EGGS, A LA TRIPE. 

Boil eight eggs hard, immerse them in cold water for three minutes, 
take off the shells, cut them in rather thick slices, and put these into a 
stewpan. Next, cut three small onions in slices, separating the folds 
in rings; these must be first parboiled in water, and then after being 
boiled in white broth, should be drained on a sieve and placed with the 
eggs ; add two ragout-spoonfuls of good Bechamel sauce (No. 5), as 
much garlic as can be held on the point of a knife, a pinch of mig- 
nionette pepper, a little nutmeg, aiid the juice of a lemon : toss the 
whole together over the stove-fire, and when the eggs are quite hot, 
dish them up in a conical form ; garnish round with croutons or jieu- 
rons, aud serve. 

1194. EGGS, AU GRATIN. 

Boil the eggs hard, and when done, take off the shells, cut them in 
slices, and set them aside on a plate. Next, put a large ragout-spoow- 
ful of white sauce into a stewpan to boil over the stove-fire, and when 
it is sufficiently reduced, add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a 
small pat of butter, a little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, the yolks of 
four eggs, and the juice of half a lemon ; stir this quickly over the 
stove until it begins to thicken, and then withdraw it from the fire. 
Place the eggs in close circular rows in the dish, spread some of the 
preparation in between each layer, observing that the whole must lie 
dished up in the form of a dome ; smooth the surface over with the 
remainder of the sauce, strew some fried bread-crumbs mixed with 
grated Parmesan cheese over the top, put some fried croutons of bread 
or jieurons round the base, and set them in the oven to bake, or grot- 
inale for about ten minutes, then send to table. 

1195. EGGS, BROUILLES, WITH TRUFFLES. 

Break eight new-laid eggs into a stewpan, to these add four ounces 
of fresh butter, two ounces of truffles (cut up in very small dice, and 
simmered in a little butter), a gill of cream, a small piece of glaze, a 



OMELETS. 395 

little nutmeg, mignionette-pepper, and salt; stir this quickly with a 
wooden spoon over the stove-fire until the eggs, &c, begin to thicken, 
when the stewpan must be withdrawn ; continue to work the eggs with 
the spoon, observing, that although they must not be allowed to become 
hard, as in that case the preparation would be curdled and rendered 
unsightly, yet they must be sufficiently set, so as to be fit to be dished 
up : to effect this it is necessary to stick the croutons or Jieurons round 
the inner circle of the dish with a little flower and white-of-egg paste ; 
dish up the eggs in the centre of these, and serve. 

1196. OMELET, WITH FINE-HERBS. 

Break six eggs in a basin, to these add half a gill of cream, a small 
pat of butter broken in small pieces, a spoonful of chopped parsley, 
some pepper and salt ; then put four ounces of fresh butter in an 
omelet-pan on the stove-fire ; while the butter is melting, whip the 
eggs, &c, well together until they become frothy; as soon as the butter 
begins to fritter, pour the eggs into the pan, and stir the omelet, as the 
eggs appear to set and become firm ; when the whole has become par- 
tially set, roll the omelet into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to 
acquire a golden color on one side, over the fire, and then turn it out 
on its dish ; pour a little thin Espagnole sauce, or half-glaze under it, 
and serve. 

1197a. OMELET, WITH SHALOTS. 

Prepare and finish this omelet, in all respects like the foregoiDg, 
except that some chopped shalots must be added to the parsley. 

11976. OMELET, WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Break six eggs into a basin, then add a gill of cream, four ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese, some mignionette-pepper and a little salt ; 
beat the whole well together, and finish the omelet as previously 
directed. 

1198. OMELET, WITH KIDNEYS. 

First prepare the kidneys with fine herbs (No. 816); then, make 
an omelet as directed for "Omelet with Fine-herbs" (No. 1196), and 
when it is fried, before folding it up, place the prepared kidneys in it ; 
roll it up into shape, dish it up with a little half-glaze round the base, 
and serve. 

1199. OMELET, WITH OYSTERS. 

This is made in the same manner as the foregoing, merely substituting 
some oysters, prepared as for scollops (No. 538), for the kidneys. 

1200. POACHED EGGS, WITH ANCHOVY TOAST. 

First, break some new-laid eggs into separate small cups, or dariole- 
moulds ; then, drop them one after the other into a stewpan containing 
boiling water mixed with a table-spoonful of white vinegar, and a little 
salt ; keep this boiling while the eggs are being dropped in at the side 
of the stewpan, and when they have boiled for two minutes, drain them 
on a napkin, trim them and place each egg upon a square or oval piece 
of dry toast, soread with anchovy butter (No. 179), over which have 






396 ENTREMETS OF EGGS. 

been laid some thin fillets of anchovies ; dish these up in a close circle, 
pour a little half-glaze under them, place a pinch of mignionette-pepper 
in the centre of each egg, and serve. 

1201. POACHED EGGS, WITH HAM. 

Poach the eggs as in the foregoing case, and when done, dish them 
up on thin oval scollops of fried ham ; pour some thin Poivrade sauce 
(No. 29) under them, and serve. 

1202. EGGS, A LA DAUPHINE. 

Boil ten eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut each egg into halves, 
lengthwise ; scoop the yolks out and put them into the mortar, and 
place the whites on a dish. Add four ounces of butter to the yolks of 
eggs, also the crumb of a French-roll soaked in cream, some chopped 
parsley, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese; pound the whole well together, and then add one 
whole egg and the yolks of two others ; mix these well together by 
pounding, and use this preparation for filling the whites of eggs kept 
in reserve for the purpose : smooth them over with the blade of a small 
knife dipped in water, and as they are filled, place them on a dish. 
Next, with some of the remaining part of the preparation, spread a 
thin foundation at the bottom of the dish, and proceed to raise the eggs 
up, in three or four tiers, to a pyramidal form, a single egg crowning 
the whole : four hard-boiled yolks of eggs must then be rubbed through 
a wire sieve, over the entremets, for them to fall upon in shreds, like 
vermicelli ; place a border of fried croutons of bread round the base, 
and set the eggs in the oven for about twenty minutes, that they may 
be baked of a bright-yellow color j^when done, withdraw them, pour 
some thin Bechamel round the entremets, and serve. 

1203. EGGS, A L'AURORE. 

Boil the eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut each egg into halves, 
lengthwise ; take the yolks out and place them on a dish, shred the 
whites up in fine strips and put these into a stewpan with some Aurora 
sauce (No. 41), toss them over the fire until quite hot, and then dish 
them up in the centre of a border of croutons previously stuck round 
the bottom of the dish. First place a layer of the whites, then shake 
a little grated Parmesan cheese, after which rub some of the yolks 
through a wire sieve upon this, and so on, repeating the same until the 
whole is used up, finishing with the yolks of eggs, resembling vermicelli. 
Put the entremets in the oven to be baked of a bright-yellow color, and 
then serve. 

1204. EGGS, WITH NUTBROWN BUTTER. 

Put four ounces of butter into an omelet-pan over the fire : as soon 
as it begins to fritter, break the eggs into it, without disturbing the 
yolks ; season with pepper and salt, fry the eggs over the fire for five 
minutes, and then remove them gently on to their dish. Next, put 
two ounces more butter into the pan, fry it of a brown color, then add 
two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, boil the whole together for two 
minutes, pour it over the eggs, aud serve. 



MACCARONI. 397 

1205. EGGS, A LA SUISSE. 

Spread the bottom of a silver dish with two ounces of fresh butter, 
cover this with rather thin slices of fresh Gruyere cheese, break eight 
whole eggs upon the cheese, without disturbing the yolks ; season with 
grated nutmeg, niignionette-pepper, and salt ; pour a gill of double 
cream on the surface, strew the top with about two ounces of grated 
Gruyere cheese, and set the eggs in the oven to bake for about a quar- 
ter of an hour : pass the hot salamander over the top, and serve with 
strips of very thin dry toast separately on a plate. 

1206. MACCARONI, A L'lTALIENNE. 

Break up the maccaroni in three-inch lengths, and put it on to boil 
in hot water, with a pat of butter, a little mignionette-pepper and salt ; 
when done, drain it on a napkin, and as soon as the moisture is 
absorbed, dish it up in the following manner : — First, put two large 
rago ^'-spoonfuls of good tomata sauce into a stewpan, and boil it over 
the stove-fire; then add two pats of fresh butter with as much glaze, 
and work the whole well together ; next, strew a layer of the macca- 
roni on the bottom of the dish, then pour some of the sauce over it, 
and strew some grated Parmesan cheese over this : and so on, repeat- 
ing the same until the dish is full enough ; strew some grated cheese 
over the top, put the maccaroni iu the oven for five minutes, and then 
serve while it is quite hot. 

1207. MACCARONI, WITH CREAM. 

Boil one pound of maccaroni, and when done, cut it up in three- 
inch lengths, and put it into a stewpan, with four ounces of fresh 
butter, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a similar quantity 
of Gruyere cheese also grated, and a gill of good cream ; leason with 
mignionette-pepper and salt, and toss the whole well together over the 
stove-fire until well mixed and quite hot, then shake it up for a few 
minutes to make the cheese spin, so as to give it a fibrous appearance, 
when drawn up with a fork. The maccaroni, when dished up, must be 
garnished round the base with fleurons of pastry, and then served. 

1208. MACCARONI, AU GRATIN. 

Cut the maccaroni up as above, put it into a stewpan with three- 
quarters of a pound of grated cheese (Parmesan and Gruyere in equal 
quantities), four ounces of fresh butter, and a mgfOM^-spoonful of good 
Bechamel sauce ; season with mignionette-pepper and salt, toss the 
whole together over the fire until well mixed, then pile it up in the 
centre of a border of fried croutoris of bread (previously stuck round 
the bottom of the dish) ; strew the surface with fine bread-crumbs and 
grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions; run a little melted but- 
ter through the holes of a spoon, over the top of the maccaroni, and 
then put it in the oven to be baked of a bright-yellow color : it should 
then be served quite hot. 

1209. TIMBALE OF MACCARONI, A LA FLORENTINE. 

Decorate a plain mould with some nouilles paste (No. 1256;, mixed 
with a little sugar ; then line the mould with some thin strips of fine 
short paste (No. 1253), which must be placed exactly in the same 






398 ENTREMETS OF EGGS. 

manner as when lining a charlotte-mould with bread ; fill the timbale 
with flour, cover it in with some of the paste, and bake it for about 
one hour; it must then be again emptied, and all the flour brushed out 
with a paste-brush, put back into the mould, and kept in the screen 
until wanted. 

While the timbale is being made, parboil half a pound of .Naples 
maccaroni in water for a quarter of an hour, then draiu it on a sieve, 
and afterwards put it into a stewpan with a pat of butter, a pint of 
milk, and the same quantity of cream, four ounces of sugar, a stick of 
vanilla, and a very little salt ; then set the maccaroni to boil very 
gently over a slow fire until it is thoroughly done — by which time the 
maccaroni will have entirely absorbed the milk, &c, then add about 
one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; toss the whole well together 
over the fire, remove the stick of vanilla, and fill the timbale with the 
maccaroni ; then turn it out of the mould on to its dish, shake over it 
some finely-pounded sugar, glaze it with the hot salamander, and send 
to table. 

1210. NOUILLES, A LA PALERME. 

Make three-quarters of a pound of nouilles (No. 1361), parboil 
them in water with a pat of butter and a little salt for about ten 
minutes ; then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards put them in a 
stewpan with a pint of chicken-broth, a pat of butter, a little grated 
nutmeg, mignionette-pepper and salt ; place a circular piece of buttered 
paper on the top, put the lid on, and then set the nouilles over a slow 
fire, to boil very gently until the whole of the broth has been absorbed. 
Next, add a gill of cream, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two 
pats of butter, and a small piece of glaze; toss the whole well together 
over the fire, and then pile them up^in the centre of a border of croutons 
previously stuck round the bottom of the dish ; shake some vermi- 
cellied yolks of eggs, and some grated Parmesan cheese over the surface, 
put the entremets in the oven to be baked of a fine bright-yellow color, 
and send to table. 

1211. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES, A LA VANILLE. 

Parboil the nouilles in water for ten minutes, then drain them on a 
sieve, -and afterward put them in a stewpan with a pint of cream, a 
table-spoonful of pounded vanilla, a pat of butter, six ounces of sugar, 
and a little salt ; cover them with a circular piece of buttered paper, 
and put on the lid ; then set them on a slow fire to boil gently for about 
three-quarters of an hour, by which time the cream will be absorbed by 
the nouilles; add the yolks of six eggs, and mix the whole well 
together. Next, spread a plain round oval mould with butter, roll 
some nouilles paste out on the slab with the fingers, and use this for 
the purpose of lining the mould with — coiled round as closely as possi- 
ble, thus forming a kind of timbale ; fill this with the prepared nouilles, 
place it on a baking-sheet, and put it in the oven to be baked of a 
fine light color; when it is done, turn the timbale out of the mould on 
to its dish, shake some fine-sifted sugar over it, glaze it with the red-hot 
salamander, and serve. 

1212. INDIAN SANDWICHES. 
Cut the breast of a roast fowl or pheasant in very small square, 
dice-like pieces, and place these ou a plate ; take about four ounces of 






ITALIAN SALAD. 399 

red tongue or lean ham, and four anchovies (previously washed and 
filleted), cut these also in small dice, and place them with the 
chicken. Next, put two ragout-spoonfuls of Veloute sauce, and a 
dessert-spoonful of curry-paste into a stewpan, boil these over the 
stove, stirring it meanwhile, until reduced to the consistency of a thick 
sauce; then add the chicken, &c, and the juice of half a.lemon, mix 
the whole well together, and use this preparation in the following 
manner : — 

Cut some thin slices of the crnmb of a sandwich-loaf, and with a 
circular tin-cutter, about an inch and a half in diameter, stamp out two 
dozen croutons; fry these in clarified butter to a bright-yellow color, 
drain them on a napkin, and place one-half on a baking-sheet covered 
with clean paper; spread a thick layer of the above preparation on 
each of these, and then cover them with the remaining twelve croutons. 
Next, grate four ounces of fresh Parmesan, and mix these with a pat 
of butter into a paste, divide it in twelve parts, roll each into a round 
ball, and place one of these on the top of each sandwich ; about ten 
minutes before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed 
thoroughly, pass the red-hot salamander over them, to color them of a 
bright yellow, dish them up on a napkin, and serve. 

1213. ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

Order a dozen very small round rolls, rasp them all over, cut off 
the top, remove all the crumb, place them on a dish, and set them 
aside. Next, chop four hard-boiled eggs very fine, and put this into 
a small basin with a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon, chervil, 
chives, and burnet ; season with four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, one 
ditto of French-vinegar, pepper, and a little salt; mix the whole well 
together, and use this preparation for filling the rolls with ; then, 
place some small fillets of anchovies (previously prepared) over the 
sandwiches, at about one-eighth of an inch distant from each other, 
and place another row of fillets across these at a similar distance. 
Dish the sandwiches up on a napkin, in the form of a pryamid, and 
serve. 

1214. ITALIAN SALAD. 

Boil two heads of fine white cauliflower, a similar portion of 
asparagus-points, French-beans cut in diamonds, a few new potatoes, 
(which after being boiled must be stamped out with a small vegetable 
cutter), half a pint of green-peas, and three artichoke-bottoms, also 
cut up in small fancy shapes when boiled. All these veegtables must 
be prepared with great attention, in order that they may retain their 
original color ; the cauliflowers should be cut up in small buds or 
flowerets, and the whole, when done, put into a convenient-sized basin. 

Next, boil two large red beetroots, six large new potatoes, and 
twenty large-sized heads of very green asparagus, or a similar quantity 
of French-beans ; cut the beetroot and potatoes in two-inch lengths, 
and with a tin vegetable cutter, a quarter of an inch in diameter, 
punch out about two dozen small pillar-shaped pieces of each, and 
put these on a dish, with an equal quantity of asparagus heads or 
French-beans, cut to the same length. Then, take a plain border- 
mould, and place the green vegetables in neat aud close order all round 
the bottom of the mould ; observing that a small quantity of aspic- 



. 



4:00 ENTREMETS OF EGGS. 

jelly must be first poured in the mould, for the purpose of causing 
the pieces of French-beans to hold together. Next, line the sides of 
the mould, by placing the pieces of beetroot and potatoes alternately, 
each of which must be first dipped in some bright aspic-jelly, pre- 
viously to its being placed in the mould; when the whole is complete, 
fill the border up with aspic-jelly. 

Preparatory to placing the vegetables, the mould must be partially 
immersed in some pounded rough ice, contained in a basin or pan. 

When about to send this entremet to table, turn the vegetable bor- 
der out of the mould on to its dish ; after the vegetables before alluded 
to have been seasoned, by adding to them a ra</ow£-spoonful of aspic- 
jelly, three table-spoonfuls of oil, one of tarragon-vinegar, some pepper 
and salt ; and when the whole have been gently tossed together, they 
should be neatly placed in the centre of the border, in a pyramidal 
form. Ornament the base of the entremets with bold croutons of 
bright aspic-jelly, and serve. 

1215. RUSSIAN SALAD. 

First, cut a lobster in neat thin scollops, and place them in a basin ; 
to these add some scolloped fillets of anchovies, about one pound of 
thunny cut up into scollops, the tails of two dozen crayfish, a similar 
quantity of prawns' tails, two dozen olive farcies and a good table- 
spoonful of French capers ; then add a sufficient quantity of red 
Mayonnaise sauce (Xo. 99), to moisten these ingredients; mix the 
whole together gently, and use this preparation to fill a border of 
vegetables similar to that described in the foregoing article. Finish 
the entremets in the same manner, and serve. 

1216. GERSEAN SALAD. 

Remove the skin from the fillets of three Dutch herrings, cnt these 
up into pieces an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and put 
them into a basin ; with a sharp knife shave some very thin slices from 
one pound of Hambro' beef (previously parboiled in water for about 
half an hour), and add them to the pieces of herrings ; to these must 
also be put two dozen turned olives, some white and red beetroot 
(baked), cut or stamped out in fancy shapes, in the proportion of one- 
fourth part of the whole of the ingredients, two dozen crayfish -tails, 
and some curled celery; then add sufficient Eemoulade sauce (Xo. 95) 
to moisten the whole, and use this preparation to fill a vegetable bor- 
der as directed in the foregoing articles. 

1217. NOUKLES, A LA VIENNOISE. 

Put half a pint of consomme into a stewpan with four ounces of 
outter, and a little pepper and salt ; set this over the stove, and as 
soon as it begins to simmer, throw in about six ounces of sifted flour 
to thicken the preparation into a soft paste, and keep stirring this 
over the fire for about three minutes, by which time the paste will 
cease to adhere to the sides of the stewpan ; add two whole eggs, and 
four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and work the whole tho- 
roughly together until well mixed, then add a gill of whipped cream 
and another egg; mix these in with the paste, and mould it with two 
tea-spoons into small quenelles; when this is done, place them in close 



COLD ENTREES. ' 401 

order on a stewpan-cover previously spread with butter, and when 
about to poach them, they must be slipped off into some boiling con- 
somme, after gently boiling for about ten minutes, drain them on a 
sieve, and place them in a deep silver dish, or souffle-lining. Pour 
sufficient thin bright Espagnole sauce over them to reach the surface, 
sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over the top, and set the nouklea 
in the oven to simmer for about twenty minutes ; just before sending 
to table, pass the red-hot salamander over the surface to give them a 
bright-yellow color, and serve. 

Noukles are mostly served immediately after the fish, but are also 
suited for the second course ; they may also be dressed with Allemande 
sauce instead of Espaguole, when preferred. 



COLD ENTREES FOR BALL SUPPERS, &c, 



COMPRISING 

Aspic-Jelly. Potted Pheasants, d la Royale. 

Fricassee of Chickens, with Aspic- Jelly. Putted Fowl and Tongue. 
Salmis of Partridges. „ Lobster. 

Mayonaise of Fillets of Soles, Ac. „ Prawns or Shrimps. 

„ of Chickens. „ Yarmouth Bloaters. 

Dame, or Slice of Salmon, & la Montpcllier. Galantine of Poulard, with Jelly. 

Trout, d la Vertpre. Boar's Head, with Aspic-Jelly. 

Chicken Salad. Chickens, d la Belle- Vue. 

Lobster Salad. Lamb Cutlets, d la Prineesse. 

Tongue, with Aspic-Jelly. Fillets of Fowls, d la Victoria. 

Ham, with ditto. Sandwiches, d la. Reyence. 
Aspic of Fowl, d la Heine. „ of Fillets of Soles, Ac. 

1218. ASPIC JELLY. 

Take about thirty pounds of knuckle of fresh veal, wash the meat 
in plenty of water, and put it into a stock-pot, with four hens, and 
eighteen calves'-feet previously boned, and parboiled in water for ten 
minutes ; fill up the stock-pot with about four gallons of spring water, 
and set it on a stove-fire to boil ; as the scum rises to the surface, re- 
move it with a skimmer, and keep pouring in small quantities of cold 
water, to check the boiling occasionally, so as to enable the albumen 
(which forms the white scum), when effectually dissolved by the heat 
of the water to be thrown up in larger quantities than would be the 
case if the process is hurried ; otherwise the aspic so prepared would 
be more difficult to clarify. The aspic, being well skimmed, should 
then be garnished with four carrots, three large onions stuck with two 
cloves each, four heads of celery, two cloves of garlic, a large faggot of 
parsley and green onions, with two bay-leaves, and a large sprip; of 
thyme ; four blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of pepper-corns. Next, 
set the stock-pot down by the side of the stove-fire, to boil very gently 
for about six hours ; all the grease should then be carefully removed 
from the top, and the aspic strained through a broth napkin into large 
kitchen basins, and put away in the larder to cool. When the aspic 
has become firm, scrape off the grease from the surface, and run a 
25 



402 COLD ENTREES. 

little boiling water upon the top, to wash away any that remains, 
throw this water off, and with a clean cloth absorb all the remaining 
moisture. The aspic must now be put into a large stewpan, and set 
to boil on a brisk stove-fire, and then removed to the side that it may 
throw up its scum for ten minutes ; this should be removed as it rises 
and the aspic must afterward be allowed partially to cool, preparatory 
to its being clarified ; for which purpose, put into a stewpan the whites 
of six eggs, four whole eggs, about one pound of fresh veal, as much 
game or fowl, perfectly free from bone, sinew, or fat, and thoroughly 
poun-ded in a mortar ; to these add a bottle of French or Rhenish 
white wine, and a little spring water ; whisk the whole well together 
until thoroughly mixed, then add this preparation to the aspic, and 
continue whisking the whole together over a brisk stove-fire until the 
eggs, &c, begin to coagulate ; then immediately pour in the juice of 
six lemons, mixed with a little spring water, and remove the aspic to 
the side of the stove-fire ; put the lid on the stewpan, place some live 
embers of charcoal upon it, and leave it to simmer very gently for 
about half an hour. Next, pour it into a flannel jelly-bag, prepared 
in the usual way to receive it, and keep pouring the jelly through the 
bag for a few minutes, when it will become perfectly bright, then 
allow it to run into the basin until the whole has passed. Pour the 
aspic into deep sautapans or stewpans, and set it in the larder to be- 
come firm. Care should be taken throughout the process to avoid 
putting any thing into the aspic that would be likely to prevent it 
from becoming of a pale straw color : half may be colored of a 
darker shade, by mixing in with it a few drops of caramel or brown- 
ing.* 

Previously to mixing the eggs, ^tc, with the aspic, a small quantity 
should be put into a dariole-mould upon the ice to prove its strength ; 
as although it is necessary (especially during hot weather) that all 
jellies should contain a large proportion of gelatine, yet, if this pre- 
dominate, the jelly becomes very difficult to clarify. 

1219. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS, WITH ASPIC JELLY. 

Prepare a fricassee of chickens, as directed in No. 968 ; keep the 
pieces of chickens separate from the sauce, which must be rather 
stiffly reduced, previously to incorporating the leason of eggs in it ; 
and when this has been done, add about one-third of its quantity of 
aspic jelly ; stir them together on the ice, and when well mixed, dip 
the pieces of chicken in it, and dish them up as you proceed. The 
entree should be raised in a conical form, and neatly masked with the 
remainder of the sauce, so as to detach each piece of chicken in relief. 
Place some fine cocks'-combs, white- button-mushrooms, and glazed 
truffles in the cavities ; surmount the whole with a large truffle, in 
which a large white cock's-comb has been inserted, garnish the base 
with some chopped jelly, rolled with the blade of a knife in the form 
of a thick cord, and place a border of angular or fancy-shaped croutons 
of bright aspic jelly round this. 

* This is made by baking some sugar in a small copper pan, and allowing it to boil 
down very gradually over a slow fire, until it becomes a very dark brown in color: some 
cold water must then bo added to melt the caramel, and after it has boiled up it should 
be kept in a small bottle for use. 



KAYOXAISE OF CHICKENS. 



403 



1220. SALMIS OF PARTRIDGES, WITH ASPIC JELLY 

Prepare the salmis as directed 
in No. 1078, keep the pieces of 
partridges separate from the sauce, 
which, when partially cold, must 
be mixed with one-third of its 
quantity of aspic jelly, and gently 
stirred on the ice, until it assumes 
sufficient body to admit of its being 
used for masking the pieces of 
partridges with : these must be 
raised on their dish in a pyramidal 
form ; pour the remainder of the 
sauce over the entree, which should 
be garnished in the same manner as 
the foregoing. 




Note. — Salmis of pheasants, woodcocks, quails, &c, are prepared 
for ball-suppers, and similar entertainments, in the same way as 
partridges. 

1221. MAYONATSE OF FILLETS OF SOLES, ETC. 

Trim the fillets of the three soles, simmer them in a sautapan with 
2 oz. of butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; when done, put them in 
press between earthen dishes, and as soon as they are cold, divide each 
fillet into three scollops, trim the ends round, put them into a basin 
with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and let them steep in this. 
Next, prepare an aspic border-mould, in the following manner : — 
Pound some rough ice fine, and put it into a deep pan ; imbed the 
mould partially in this, pour a small quantity of aspic-jelly in the bot- 
tom of the mould, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch, and 
upon this place a decoration, made as follows : — Cut some black truffles 
and boiled white of eggs, in very thin slices; stamp these out into the 
form of rings, diamonds, leaves, &c, and arrange them with taste 
on the surface of the jelly ; when this is complete, the decoration must 
be covered in with a spoonful of aspic jelly, poured over with great 
care, so as not to disturb it : as soon as this has become set, fill the 
mould up with aspic, and when that also has become set, turn the bor- 
der out of the mould on its dish. Fill the centre with the fillets of 
soles (previously drained upon a napkin), neatly piled up in a conical 
form, pour some green Ilayonaise sauce (Xo. 98) over them, garnish 
the base of the fillets with a neat border of trimmed prawn's-tails, and 
crown the Mciyonaise with the white-heart of a cabbage-lettuce, stuck 
into half an egg, boiled hard. 

Note. — Fillets of turbot, salmon, trout, mackerel, or gurnets, maybe 
treated as the above ; the sauce can be varied according to Xos. 97 and 
99, and may also be garnished round the base of the fillets, either with 
plover's-eggs cut, crayfish-tails, or quarters of the white-hearts of cab- 
bage-lettuces. Some shred lettuce, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, 
and salt, may first be placed at the bottom of the aspic-border, to pile 
the fillets upon. 



404 



COLD ENTREES. 



1222. MAYONAISE OF CHICKENS. 

Roast two chickens, and when cold, cut them up into small joints ; 

remove the skin, trim them neatly, 
and steep them in a basin with 

A oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Pre- 

pare a decorated aspic-border, as 
directed in the preceding article ; 
when this has been turned out on 
its dish, pile up the pieces of 
chickens in the centre upon some 
shred lettuces in a conical form ; 
mask them with some white 3Jay- 
onaise sauce (No. 97), garnish with 
lettuce-hearts and quarters of egg 
boiled hard, or with plover's-eggs ; 
crown the Mayonaise with some 
chopped aspic or a crouton of 
jelly. 





1223. DARNE, OR SLICE OF SALMON, A LA MONTPELLIER. 

Procure a prime cut (four inches thick) from an unsplit salmon of 

good size ; slip the blade of a sharp 
knife under the skin, and detach this 
without removing it ; fill out the 
vent with a piece of carrot covered 
with fat bacon ; wrap the slice of 
•salmon in layers of fat bacon, and 
tie them on with string. Place the 
fish on its drainer in a stewpan, 
moisten with some mirepoix (No. 
236), and set it to boil very gently 
over a moderate fire for about 
three-quarters of an hour ; then 
remove it, and allow the fish to remain in its own liquor until it is 
nearly cold ; drain it upon an earthen dish, and set it aside to become 
firm. The dame must then be freed from its skin, &c, trimmed, and 
lightly masked over with glaze mixed with some lobster-coral. Cut 
out a round or oval piece of crumb of bread, about the size of the 
salmon, and an inch thick, and fry it of a light color ; spread this all 
over with some Montpellier butter (No. 183), smooth the surface witli 
a knife dipped in warm water, and put it on the bottom of the dish in- 
tended to receive the salmon. Next place the dame of salmon upon this, 
and spread the upper part with rather a thin coating of the Montpel- 
lier butter, which, after being smoothed over, must be decorated with 
a bold wreath of roses or laurels, composed of black truffles. Ornament 
the entree with aspic-jelly, by placing fancy-shaped croutons of tins 
round the base. 

1224. TROUT, A LA VERTPRE. 

Boil three small trout in some mirepoix (No. 236\ and when cold, 
remove the skins ; spread them over completely with a thin coating 



LOBSTER SALAD. 



405 




of Montpellier butter (No. 183), 
and mark out the mouth, gills, and 
the eyes, with some narrow strips 
of black truffles ; then, cut some 
of these into thin slices, and after- 
wards stamp them out with a cir- 
cular tin-cutter, in the form of 
half- moons, and proceed so to ar- 
range them upon the trout, as to 
imitate fish scales. Prepare a 
foundation of fried bread, covered 
with Montpellier butter, as directed 
in the preceding case ; place it on 
the dish, arrange the trout upon it 
in a row, and ornament them with 
a rich border of aspic croutons. 

1225. CHICKEN SALAD. 

Prepare the chickens as directed for a Mayonaise (No. 1222. Pile 
the pieces of chicken up in the dish, upon a bed of seasoned shred 
lettuces, in a conical form ; pour some white Mayonaise sauce (No. 97) 
over the pieces, place a border of hard eggs cut in quarters, and hearts 
of cabbage-lettuces round the base ; stick a white heart of a lettuce on 
the top, and serve. 

Note. — Chicken-salads may also be ornamented and garnished with 
plover's-eggs, decorated with truffles ; and with eggs boiled bard, cut 
in quarters, and ornamented either with thin fillets of anchovies and 
capers, or colored butter, either lobster coral (No. 182), or green Raxi- 
fjotte (No. 185), or with tarragou or chervil-leaves, laid flat on the 
eggs, or else stuck in the point. 

1226. LOBSTER SALAD. 

Break the shells, and remove 
the meat whole from the tails and 
claws of the lobsters ; put this into 
a basin, with a little oil, vinegar, 
nepper and salt, and reserve the 
pith and coral to make some lob- 
ster-butter (No. 182), which is to 
be thus used : — First, spread a cir- 
cular foundation of the lobster- 
butter upon the bottom of the 
dish, about seven inches in dia- 
meter, and the fourth part of an 
inch' thick; then, scoop out the 
centre, leaving a circular band. 
Drain the lobster on a cloth, cut 
the pieces in oval scollops, and 
with some of the butter (to stick 
the pieces firmly together), pile the 
lobster up in three successive rows, 
the centre being left hollow : fill this with shred lettuce, or salad of 




L 



406 



COLD ENTREES. 



any kind, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt ; ponr some 
scarlet Remoulade (No. 95) or Mayonaise sauce (No. 100) over the 
salad, without masking the pieces of lobster ; garnish the base with a 
border of hearts of lettuces, divided in halves, and around these place 
a border of plover's-eggs, having a small sprig of green tarragon stuck 
into the pointed end of each ; place a white-heart of lettuce on the 
top, and serve. 

1227. TONGUE, WITH ASPIC-JELLY. 

Run an iron skewer through the root of a pickled tongue ; tie some 
string round the point of the skewer, and fasten it at the other end, 
thus giving to the tongue the form of an arch. Boil the tongue for 
about three hours ; when done, immerse it in cold water, and pull off 
the outer skin. Then, truss the tongue afresh, in the form of an arch, 
put it in press, sideways, between two dishes, and when cold, ti-im it 
smooth ; or with a small sharp knife, carve the surface, so as to repre- 
sent leaves and flowers ; glaze it over brightly, and place it upon its 
dish. Finally, garnish and ornament the tongue with aspic-jelly (No. 
1218), and serve. 

1228. HAM, WITH ASPIC-JELLY. 




Braize a ham as directed in (No. 646), trim and glaze it accordingly, 
dish it up, and garnish with aspic-jelly, according to the design repre- 
sented in the above wood-cut. 

1229. ASPIC OF FOWL, A LA EEINE. 

Roast off two fowls, and use them to make some puree a la Heine 

(No. 779) ; mix this with a ragout- 
spoonful of good Bechamel sauce 
(No. 5), and about one-third part 
of strong aspic-jelly (No. 1218), 
and work the whole well together 
in a stewpan upon some rough ice. 
While this is going on, a plain 
round or oval mould should be 
decorated with black truffles and 
red tonge, in the following man- 
ner: — First, place the mould upon 
some pounded rough ice, quite 
straight; then, pour about a table- 
spoonful of bright aspic-jelley over 
the bottom, and when this has become set, place on it a bold decora- 




POTTED GAME AND SHELLFISH. 40 T 

tion, formed with leaves, rings, dots, crescents, &c, cut out of truffles 
and tongue, and arranged so as to represent a circular wreath, with a 
star or scroll in the centre. Decorate the sides of the mould in the 
same manner, dipping each piece of the decoration in a little melted 
aspic-jelly, to make it adhere to the mould ; when the decoration is 
completed, fill the mould up with the prepared puree, and imbed the 
mould in ice to set the aspic. When it has become quite firm, dip the 
mould in tepid water for a few seconds, instantly withdraw it, wipe it 
with a clean cloth, and turn it out upon its dish. Garnish the aspic 
round with a roll of chopped aspic-jelly, place some croutons round 
the base, and serve. 

Note. — The above may be made also with pheasant, partridge, or 
any other kind of game. 

1230. POTTED PHEASANTS, A LA EOYALE. 

Truss a pheasant as for boiling, and braize it with 1 lb. of ham, in 
some well-seasoned wine mirepoix (No. 236) ; when done, drain them 
upon a dish, strain their liquor into a stewpan, and when divested of 
all the grease, boil it down to glaze. Meanwhile, chop and pound all 
the meat from the pheasant with the ham, and add to these 6 oz. of 
clarified fresh butter, a mgroi^-spoonful of good sauce, and the glaze ; 
season with Cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg and salt, pound the whole 
thoroughly, and rub this preparation through a fine wire-sieve on to a 
dish. Next, fill some small round or oval earthenware potting pans 
with this preparation, smooth the surface over with a spoon dipped in 
water, place them in a covered stewpan, and submit them to the 
action of steam for about half an hour. The potted pheasant must 
then be allowed to cool ; then, with the bowl of a spoon, press down 
the meat in the pots, wipe them clean, and run a little clarified fresh 
butter over the surface. 

Note. — All kinds of game should be potted in the above manner, 
and will then keep fresh-flavored for months. For those who ap- 
prove of it, more spice and aromatic herbs may be added ; but it 
should be observed, that an immoderate use of these impairs the 
flavor of the game. 

1231. POTTED FOWL AND TONGUE. 

Pare off all the meat from a roast fowl, chop and pound it 
thoroughly with about one pound of boiled red tongue or dressed ham ; 
add six ounces of clarified fresh butter, three ounces of good glaze 
(made with the bones of the fowl), and a gravy-spoonful of good 
Bechamel sauce (No. 5) ; season with Cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and 
salt ; and when the whole has been thoroughly mixed by pounding, 
rub the produce through a fine wire-sieve, and then finish this as 
directed for the potted pheasant. 

1232. POTTED LOBSTER. 

Lobsters for pottino; must be quite fresh. Take the meat, pith, 
and coral out of the shells ; cut this up in slices, and put the whole 
into a stewpan with one-third part of clarified fresh butter, and to 
every pound of lobster, add four whole anchovies (washed and wiped 
dry) ; season with mace, pepper-corns, and a little salt, then put the 
lid on the stewpan, and set the lobster to simmer very gently over a 



408 COLD ENTREES. 

slow fire for about a quarter of an hour.- After this, it must be 
thoroughly pounded in a mortar, rubbed through a sieve, put into small 
pots, steamed, and when cold, should be pressed down with the bowl 
of a spoon, and the surface covered with a little clarified butter. 

1233. POTTED PRAWNS, OR SHRIMPS. 

Pick one pound of fresh-boiled prawns or shrimps, and reserve the 
heads and shells ; pound them in a mortar with four anchovies (pre- 
viously washed and wiped dry for the purpose), and then rub the 
whole through a hair-sieve, and put the produce, with the picked 
shrimps, into a stewpan with six ounces of clarified fresh butter ; 
season with some grated nutmeg, Cayenne pepper, and a little salt; 
simmer the whole together over a slow fire for about ten minutes, 
then toss the shrimps in the seasoning occasionally, until they be- 
come nearly cold; they must then be put into pots, with a little 
clarified butter poured over the surface, aud set aside in a cool place, 
for use. 

1234. POTTED YARMOUTH BLOATERS. 

Take six fresh-cured bloaters, immerse them in scalding water, and 
remove the skins ; wipe them dry, take out the bones, and put the 
fillets of the herrings into a stewpan with half a pound of clarified 
fresh butter, a blade of mace, and enough cayenne to season them ; set 
this on a slow fire to simmer for about ten minutes, then thoroughly 
pound the whole well together in a mortar, and rub it through a sieve. 
Put this preparation into pots, run a little clarified butter over the sur- 
face, and keep them in a cool place for use. 

Note. — Smoked, or kippered salmon, or Finnan haddocks, may be 
potted in the same way as the foregoing. By submitting any of the 
above described potted shell-fish, ^&c, to the action of steam, a suffi- 
cient time for the meat to be thoroughly penetrated by the heat, they 
may keep good for months. Much will, however, depend on the fresh- 
ness of the butter used in this preparation ; should it become rancid, 
as frequently happens after keeping for a few weeks, it will, of course, 
considerably impair the flavor of the potted fish. 

1235. GALANTINE OF POULARD, WITH ASPIC-JELLY. 

Chop up one pound of white veal, with the same quantity of fat 
bacon, and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, 
salt,. and aromatic seasoning (No. 1250); when these are chopped quite 
fine, pound the whole in a mortar, with the yolks of three ejrgs, and 
remove the force-meat into a basin. Peel one pound of truffles, and 
cut up a boiled red tongue, and about one pound of fat bacon or boiled 
calf's udder, into long narrow fillets, about a quarter of an inch square. 
Next, bone a fine poulard, and draw the skin from the legs and pinions, 
inside; then, spread the poulards out upon a napkin, and with a sharp 
knife, pare off some part of the fillets, to cover the thinner parts of 
the skin ; season slightly with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices; spread 
a layer of the prepared force-meat, about an inch thick, then place the 
fillets of tongue and bacon upon this, about an inch apart, ami insert 
rows of truffles between these; after which, spread another layer of 
force-meat over the whole, then repeat the tongue and truffles, and so 
on, until a sufficieut quantity of both has been placed iu the poulard. 



boar's head, with aspic jelly. 409 






It must then be sewn up the back, placed upon a napkin thickly spread 
with butter, rolled up tightly, and fastened at each end with string : 
thus giving to the galantine the appearance of a cushion. This must 
be then put into an oval stewpan with the carcasses and any trimmings 
of veal or poultry that may be at hand, also two calves'-feet, two car- 
rots, two onions stuck with four cloves, a faggot of parsley, garnished 
with green onions, two bay-leaves, sweet basil and thyme, two blades 
of mace, and a dozen pepper-corns; moisten with two glasses of brandy, 
and set the pan over a stove-fire to simmer for five minutes, then mois- 
ten the galantine with as much white stock as will suffice to cover it, 
and put it back on the stove-fire to boil ; it must then be placed on a 
very slow stove-fire, or in the oven, to continue gently braizing (not 
boiling) for about two hours and a half. It should then be removed 
from the fire, and the galantine taken carefully out of the napkin ; the 
latter, after being washed in clean hot water, must be spread out upon 
the table, and the galantine, after being placed in it again, and bound 
up tightly as before, should be put back into its braize, and left in to 
become partially cold ; it must then be put in press between two dishes 
with a heavy weight upon it. Strain the stock, remove all the grease 
from the surface, and clarify it in the usual manner, then pass it through 
a napkin or a jelly-bag, and place it on some rough ice to become firmly 
set. When the galantine is quite cold, take it out of the napkin, and 
use a clean cloth to absorb any moisture or grease there may be on the 
surface ; it must then be glazed, and placed upon its dish. Decorate it 
with aspic-jelly, as represented in the foregoing wood-cut, and serve. 

Note. — Galantines of turkeys, geese, capons, fowls, pheasants, par- 
tridges, &c, are made in the same way as the above. 

1236. boar's head, with aspic jelly. 

Procure the head of a bacon hog,* which must be cut off deep into 
the shoulders; bone it carefully, beginning under the throat, then 

* For this purpose, the head must be cut off before the pig is scalded, and the bristles 
singed off with lighted straw; by this means, it will have all the appearance of a wild 
buar';- head. 



410 COLD ENTREES. 




spread the head out upon a large earthenware dish, and rub it with the 
following ingredients : — Six pounds of salt, four ounces of saltpetre, six 
ounces of moist sugar, cloves, mace, half an ounce of juniper berries, 
four cloves of garlic, six bay-leaves, a handful of thyme, marjoram, and 
basil. When the head has been well rubbed with these, pour about a 
quart of port-wine lees over it and keep in a cool place for a fortnight, 
observing that it must be turned over in its brine every day during that 
period. 

When about to dress the head, take it out of the brine, and wash it 
thoroughly in cold water; then absorb all the exterior moisture from 
it with a clean cloth, and spread it out upon the table. Next pare 
off all the uneven pieces from the cheeks, &c, cut these into long 
narrow fillets, and put them with^the tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, 
prepared as directed for the galantine; then, line the inside of the 
head with a layer of force-meat (the same kind as used for galantines) 
about an inch thick, and lay thereon the fillets of tongue, bacon, 
truffles, and here and there some pistachio kernels (the skin of which 
must be removed by scalding) ; cover these with a layer of force-meat, 
and then repeat the rows of tongue, &c, and when the head is suffi- 
ciently garnished to fill it out in its shape, it should be sewn up with a 
small trussing-needle and twine, so as thoroughly to secure the staff- 
ing. The head must then be wrapped up in a strong cloth, previously 
well spread with butter, and sewn up in this, so as to preserve its 
original form ; it should next be put into a large oval braizing-pan, 
covered with any carcasses of game (especially of grouse, from its con- 
genial flavor), or any trimmings of meat there may be at hand, and 
also four cow-heels, or six calves' feet ; then moisten with a copious 
wine mirepoix (Xo. 23G), in sufficient quantity to cover the surface of 
the head. Set the brazier on the stove-fire ; as soon as it boils, ski in 
it thoroughly, then remove it to a slow fire (covered with the lid con- 
taining live embers), that the head may continue to simmer or boil 
very gently, for about five hours ; as soon as it appears to be nearly 
done, remove the braizier from the fire, and when the heat of the broth 
has somewhat subsided, let the head be taken up on a large dish ; if 
it appears to have shrunk considerably in the wrapper, this must be 
carefully tightened, so as to preserve its shape : it should then be put 
back into its bruize, there to remain, uutil the whole has become set 



LAMBS CUTLETS, AND FILLETS OF FOWL. 411 

firm by cooling. The head must then be taken out of the braize or 
stock, and pat in the^pven, upon a deep baking dish, for a few minutes, 
just to melt the jelly which may adhere to the wrapper ; it must then 
be taken out quickly, and the wrapper carefully removed, after which, 
glaze the head with some dark-colored glaze ; place it on its dish, 
ornament it with aspic-jelly, and serve. 

Note. — On the Contiuent it is usual to decorate boars' heads with 
colored gam-paste, and sometimes with natural flowers : the latter 
produce a very pretty effect, when arranged with taste ; the former 
method is objectionable, from the liability of the gum-paste to give 
way, and run down the sides of the head : it has, moreover, a vulgar 
and gaudy look. 

1237. CHICKENS, A LA BELLE VUE. 

Truss two chickens or fowls for broiling, and braize them in white 
broth in the usual manner ; when done, set them to cool, and mask 
them completely with some reduced Bechamel sauce (No. 5), in which 
should be mixed a fourth part of aspic-jelly. Previously to saucing 
the chickens, the Bechamel thus prepared must be stirred in a stewpan 
imbedded in rough ice, until it just begins to get firm ; it should then 
be immediately poured over the chickens ; these should be decorated, 
upon the breast with black truffles or red tongue, and placed upon 
their dish with a trimmed and glazed tongue in the centre ; ornament 
them by placing a roll of chopped aspic-jelly ronnd the base, then 
outside this, some bold croutons of aspic-jelly, and serve. 

1238. LAMB-CUTLETS, A LA PRINCESSE. 

These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as 
cutlets of veal a la Dreux (No. 890) : then braized, pressed and 
trimmed. Next, cover the bottom of a sautapan with some bright 
aspic-jelly, not quite a quarter of an inch deep ; when this has become 
set firm by cooling, place the cutlets flat upon it, in circular order, then 
run a little aspic-jelly over them, just enough to cover them, and place 
the sautapan in ice to set the jelly ; as soon as this has become quite 
firm, use a tin-cutter (in the form of a cutlet) dipped in hot water, 
to stamp the cutlets out ; dish them up in close circular order upon 
a little aspic-jelly, placed on the bottom of the dish, to raise the 
cutlets, and garuish the centre with a well-prepared Macedoine of 
vegetables (No. 143), tossed in some bright aspic-jelly, instead of 
sance ; ornament the base with a border of bold croutons of jelly, and 
serve. 

1239. FILLETS OF FOWL, A LA VICTORIA. 

Prepare the fillets of three young fowls as for a Sujyreme (No. 989) ; 
when they have been simmered, drain them upon a napkin, and put 
them in press between two dishes ; when cold, trim them neatly, dip 
each fillet either in some Supreme (No. 58) or Bechamel (No. 5), 
mixed with one-fourth part of aspic-jelly, place them with the 
smoothest side uppermost in a dish or sautapan, and set them on 
some rough ice. Next, cover the bottom of a large sautapan with 
some bright aspic-jelly, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch ; 
when this has become firm, by cooling on the ice, place the fillets upon 



412 COLD EXTREES. 

it in circular order, and decorate the upper part of each with black 
truffles ; the fillets must then be covered with a little bright aspic- 
jelly, to produce the same thickness upon the upper surface as the 
under. While this is going on, a border of vegetables should be 
prepared as follows : first cut some carrots and turnips with vege- 
table cutters as for a chartreuse, and boil them separately in broth ; 
prepare also some French-beans or asparagus-heads and green-peas, 
which, when boiled, must be used to ornament a border-mould in 
exactly the same manner as a chartreuse : observing that each piece of 
vegetable must be first dipped in some aspic-jelly, previously to its being 
placed in the mould. When the mould is lined, the void left must be 
filled up with some sort of vegetables cut smaller, and tossed in aspic- 
jelly, seasoned with a little mignionette-pepper and salt, a very little 
salad-oil and tarragon vinegar; it must then be imbedded in pounded 
rough ice, until set quite firm. The border should now be turned 
out upon its dish, and the fillets of fowls, previously stamped out 
with a tin-cutter dipped in hot water, must be placed on the top of- 
the border, in close circular order, each one over-laying the other ; 
fill the centre of the entree with a copious Macedoine of vegetables 
(No. 143), tossed in a little glaze and aspic-jelly ; garnish the base of 
the entree with bold croutons of jelly, and serve. 

Or, when the border is dished up, fill the center with the Mace 
doine, and place the fillets, with the broad ends resting full on the top 
of the border ; thus causing the pointed ends to meet at the summit ; 
crown this with a bouquet of chopped jelly, insert a narrow slip of 
red tongue, cut in the form of a cock's-comb, between each fillet, and 
place an angular crouton of jelly so as apparently to support the 
tongue : garnish the base with croutons of jelly, and serve. 

-«. 
1240. SANDWICHES, A LA REGENCE. 

For this purpose, it is necessary to order one or more dozens of very 
small round or oval rolls about the size of an egg; cnt a small piece 
off the top of each, about the circumference of half-a-crown piece, and 
remove all the crumb from the inside. These rolls must then be 
filled with the following preparation. First, shred the white meat 
from the breast of a roast fowl, and put this in a basin ; then shred 
the fillets of six washed anchovies, and some red tongue or dressed 
ham in equal proportion to the fowl, and place these with the latter ; 
add about one-sixth part of the whole, of Indian gherkins or mangoes, 
also shred 6ne ; season with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, add 
sufficient Rcmoulade sauce (No. 95) to moisten the whole, and use the 
preparation as directed above. The rolls must then be covered with 
the circular pieces reserved for the purpose, and dished up on a 
napkin. 

Note. — These sandwiches may also be prepared with lobster ; in 
which case, neither ham nor tongue should be used. 

1241. SANDWICHES OF FILLETS OF SOLES. 

SiivttiER the fillets of soles in a sautapan with a little clarified but- 
ter, pepper, salt and lemon juice ; when done, put them in press be- 
tween two dishes, and afterwards divide each fillet into four scollops ; 
trim, and put them into a basin with a little mignionette-pepper, salt, 



SANDWICHES. 413 

oil and vinegar. Some small oval rolls must be ordered for this 
purpose ; after the tops are cut off, and the crumbs removed, first 
strew the bottom of each roll with small salad, then place a scollop of 
sole upon this, add a little llayonaise sauce (No. 97), then strew 
some small salad on the surface, cover with the tops, and dish them 
up. 

Note. — Sandwiches of lobster or salmon are prepared in a similar 
manner. 

1241«. BADMINTON SANDWICH. 

Cut some square pieces from a half-quartern loaf of stale bread, 
barely a quarter of an inch thich ; toast these of a light color, and 
immediately on their being taken from the fire, let them be split or 
divided with a sharp knife, the inner or untoasted sides must be spread 
with anchovy butter, and over this place closely some fillets of ancho- 
vies ; cover the whole with the other piece of toast previously spread 
with anchpvy butter, press down the sandwich with a knife, and after 
having cut the preparation into small oblong shapes, dish them up, 
and serve. „ 

1241A BRETBY SANDWICH. 

First cut some thin slices of white bread and butter ; then, cover 
half these, first, with finely-shred white-heart lettuce, then, with very 
thin slices of roast or boiled fowl ; these to be placed alternately side 
by side with fillets of anchovies ; strew some shred lettuce over this, 
place a slice of bread and butter over the whole, and after slightly 
pressing the sandwich with the blade of a knife, proceed to cut the 
preparation into oblong shapes, about two and a half inches long, by 
one inch in width. Dish up the sandwiches neatly, and serve. 

1241e. SUMMER SANDWICH. 

Between thin slices of white or brown bread and butter, place 
some very thin slices of any of the following kind of meats : ham, 
tongue, boiled or roast beef, roast mutton, poultry or game ; season 
with pepper and salt, and a little mustard; strew some mustard and 
cress, small salad, or, if preferred, some finely-shred lettuce, over the 
meat ; press the sandwich together with the blade of a knife, cut it 
into small oblong shapes, which, having dished up neatly, send to 
table. 



414 



COLD RAISED PIES AND PRESERVED GAME, 

COMPRISING 

Veal and Ham Pie, or Timbale. Leicestershire Pork Pie. 

Capon Pie. Eel Pie, d I'Anglaise. 

Pheasant Pie. , Salmon Pie. <l la Runne. 
Yorkshire Pie Preserved Hare, and other Game. 

Devonshire Squab Pie. Aromatic Spices, for Seasoning. 

1242. VEAL AND HAM PIE, OR TIMBALE* 

First daube or interlard about three pounds of white veal (from 
the leg) with lardoons or square strips of fat bacon or ham ; cut this 
in thick slices across the grain of the meat, and put them on a dish 
with an equal quantity of dressed ham, cut also in thick slices. Next, 
spread the inside of a plain mould with butter, and line it with short 
paste (No. 1253), about a quarter of an inch thick; line the inside 
of this with rather a thick layer of force-meat (No. 247), then place 
the veal and ham in alternate layers, season between each with aro- 
matic spices, pepper and salt, 611 up the hollow places and cover in 
the surface with some of the force-meat ; place some thin layers of fat 
bacon over the whole, and cover in the top with some of the paste, 
previously rolled out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch ; 
this must be applied after the edges of the pie have been wetted with 
a paste-brush dipped in water, and made fast by pressing both pieces 
of paste together with the fore-finger and thumb, so as to cause them 
to adhere closely together. The edges should then be neatly trimmed, 
and pinched round with pastry-pincers ; decorate the top of the tim- 
bale with thin strips of paste, cut out in the form of leaves, &c, 
arranged according to the upper part of the design represented in 
No. 1244. Egg the surface over with a paste-brush, make a small 
hole in the centre of the top of the pie, for the steam to escape, and 
bake it in the oven for about three hours; when it is done, withdraw 
it from the oven, and about twenty minutes afterwards, place the 
point of a funnel in the hole at the top of the timbale, and through 
this pour in about a pint of good, well-seasoned strong consomme, 
reduced to the consistency of half-glaze ; stop up the hole with a 
small piece of paste, and keep the timbale in a cool place until wanted 
for use. 

1243. CAPON" PIE, WITH TRUFFLES. 

First, bone a capon, spread it out on the table, and season the 
inside with prepared spices and a little salt ; then spread a layer of 
force-meat of fat livers (No. 247), and place upou this, in alternate 
rows, some square fillets or strips of fat bacon, tongue, and truffles; 
cover these with a layer of the force-meat, repeat the strips of bacon, 
then fold both sides of the skin over each other, so as to give to the 
capon a plump appearance, and set it aside on a dish. 

* The difference between a raised pie and a timbale consists principally in the former 
being raised (by hand or otherwise) with a stiff paste, while the latter u prepared in a 
mould, lined with a more delicate kind of short crust, which is made edible. 



YORKSHIRE, OR CIIRISTMAS PIE. 415 

Next, pare off the sinewy skin from the mouse-piece, or inner part 
of a leg of veal, daube it with seasoned lardoons of fat bacon, then 
place this, and an equal quantity of dressed ham, with the capon. 

Prepare four pounds of hot- water paste (No. 1251) ; take two-thirds 
of this, mould it into a round ball on the slab with the palm of the 
hand, and then roll it out in the form of a band, about two feet long 
and six inches wide ; trim the edges, and pare the ends square, taking 
care to cut them in a slanting direction ; wet them with a paste-brush 
dipped in water mixed with a little flour, and wrap them over one 
another neatly and firmly, so as to show the joint as little as possible. 
Next, roll out half the remainder of the paste, either in a circular or 
oval form, about a quarter of an inch thick, to the size the pie is 
intended to be made ; place this, with buttered paper, under it, on a 
baking-sheet, wet it round the edge with a paste-brush dipped in 
water, and stick a narrow band of the paste, about half an inch high, 
all round it, to within about an inch of the edge ; the wall or crust of 
the pie is to be raised up round this, and by pressing on it with the 
tips of the fingers, it should be made to adhere effectually to the 
foundation. Then by pressing the upper part of the pie with the 
lingers and thumbs of both hands, it will acquire a more elegant 
appearance, somewhat resembling the curved lip of a vase. The base 
must be spread out in proportion to the top, by pressing on it with 
the thumb. The bottom and sides of the pie should now be lined 
with a coating of force-meat of fat livers (No. 241), or, if preferred, 
with veal and fat bacon, in equal proportions, well-seasoned, chopped 
fine and pounded; next, place in the veal and ham, previously cut up 
in thick slices and well-seasoned, and fill up the cavity with some of 
the force-meat ; then add the capon and cover it over, and round, with 
the remainder of the force-meat, placing some truffles in with it, and 
cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon. Roll out the remainder 
of the ]>aste, and after wetting this, and the pie round the edges, use 
ir to cover in the pie, pressing the edges of both tightly with the 
fingers and thumb, in order to make them adhere closely together; 
trim the edge neatly and pinch it round with the pastry pincers. The 
pie should then be egged over, and decorated, for which latter purpose 
a similar kind of paste must be used, being first rolled out thin, then 
cut out in the form of leaves, half-moons, rings, &c, and arranged 
according to the designs contained in No. 241) : or, if preferred, 
a moulding raised from decorating boards with some of the paste may 
be used instead. The pie must then be placed in the oven, and baked 
for about four hours, and when done, should be withdrawn, and about 
a pint of strongly-reduced cowomme (made from the carcasses of the 
capons, two calves' feet and the usual seasoning), should be introduced 
within it through a funnel : it must then be kept in a cold place until 
wanted for use; when the cover should be carefully removed without 
breaking it, and after the top of the pie has been decorated with some 
bright aspic-jelly, it may be put on again and sent to table. 

Note. — For making pies of turkeys, fowls, pheasants, grouse, par- 
tridges, &c, follow the above directions. 

1244. YORKSHIRE, OR CIIRISTMAS PIE. 
First, bone a turkey, a goose, a brace of young pheasants, four 
partridges, four woodcocks, a dozen snipes, four grouse, and four 



416 



COLD RAISED PIES. 




widgeons ; then boil and trim a small York ham and two tongue?. 
Season and garnish the inside of the fore-named game and poultry, as 

directed in the foregoing 
case, with long fillets of 
fat bacon and tongue, 
and French tru files ; each 
must be carefully sewn 
up with a needle and small 
twine, so as to prevent 
the force-meat from escap- 
ing while tliey are being 
baked. When the whole 
of these are ready, line 
two round or oval braiz- 
ing-pans with thin layers 
of fat bacon, and after 
the birds have been ar- 
ranged therein in neat 
order, and covered in with 
layers of bacon and but- 
tered paper, put the lids 
on, and set them in the 
oven to bake rather slowly, 
for about four hours : 
then withdraw them, and 
allow them to cool. 
While the foregoing is in progress, prepare some highly-seasoned 
aspic-jelly with the carcasses of the j*ame and poultry, to which add six 
calves-feet, and the usual complement of vegetables, &c, and when 
done, let it be clarified : one-half should be reduced previously to its 
being poured into the pie when it is baked. 

Make about sixteen pounds of hot-water paste (No. 1251), and use 
it to raise a pie of sufficient dimensions to admit of its holding the 
game and poultry prepared for the purpose, for making which follow 
the directions contained in the foregoing article. The inside of the 
pie must first be lined with thin layers of fat bacon' over which spread 
a coating of well-seasoned force-meat of fat livers (No. 247) ; the birds 
should then be placed in the following order: — First, put the goose at 
the bottom with some of the small birds round it, filling up the cavi- 
ties with some of the force-meat ; then, put the turkey and the 
pheasants with thick slices of the boiled ham between them ) reserving 
the woodcocks and widgeons, that these may be placed on the top : 
fill the cavities with force-meat and truffles, and cover the whole with 
thin layers of fat bacon, run a little plain melted butter over tl)p sur- 
face, cover the pie in the usual manner, and ornament it with a bold 
design. The pie must now be baked, for about six hours, in an oven 
moderately heated, and when taken out, and after the reduced aspic 
above alluded to has been poured into it, stop the hole up with a small 
piece of paste, and set it aside in the larder to become cold. 

Note. — The quantity of game, &c, recommended to be used in the 
preparation of the foregoing pie may appear extravagant enough, but 
it is to I.e remembered that these very large pies are mostly in recpKst 



LEICESTERSHIRE PORK PIE. 417 

at Christmas time. Their substantial aspect renders them worthy of 
appearing on the side-table of those wealthy epicures who are wont to 
keep up the good old English style, at this season of hospitality and 
good cheer. 

1245. DEVONSHIRE SQUAB PIE. 

First, make two pounds of short paste (No. 1253), roll it up in a 
clean cloth, and set it aside till wanted. Then, cut about two pounds 
of griskin of pork in slices, season these with a little chopped onion, 
sage and thyme, pepper and salt, and place them on a dish ; cut one 
pound of streaky bacon (previously parboiled for a quarter of an hour) 
also in slices, and put them with the pork ; to these add about a dozen 
good apples, which, when peeled, and the cores taken out, must be cut 
in thick slices and put on a plate. Next, take rather more than half 
the paste, roll it out, and line an oblong tin mould, about two inches 
deep, with* it ; then, arrange the pork, bacon, and apples in this, in 
alternate layers, commencing with the bacon, over this put slices of 
apples, and then the pork, and so on until the whole is used up. The 
remainder of the paste must now be rolled out, and used to cover the 
pie with ; fasten it securely round the edges, trim it, and pinch it 
round boldly with the pincers ; ornament the top with leaves, &c, egg 
it over and bake it in an oven of moderate heat, for about two hours, 
and serve it hot. 

1246. LEICESTERSHIRE PORK PIE. 

Cut the pork up in square pieces, fat and lean, about the size of a 
cob-nut, season with pepper and salt, and a small quantity of sage and 
thyme chopped fine, and set it aside on a dish in a cool place. Next, 
make some hot-water-paste, using for this purpose (if desired) fresh- 
made hog's-lard instead of butter, in the proportion of eight ounces to 
the pound of flour. These pies must be raised by hand, in the follow- 
ing manner: — First, mould the paste into a round ball upon the slab, 
then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, and with the back of 
the right hand indent the centre in a circle reaching to within three 
inches of the edge of the paste ; next, gather up the edges all round, 
pressing it closely with the fingers and thumbs, so as to give to it the 
form of a purse; then continue to work it upwards, until the sides are 
raised sufficiently high ; the pie should now be placed on a baking- 
sheet, with a round of buttered paper under it, and after it has been 
filled with the pork — previously prepared for the purpose, covered in 
with some of the paste in the usual manner. Trim the edges, and pinch 
it round with the pincers, decorate it, egg it over and bake it until 
done : calculating the time it should remain in the oven, according to 
the quantity of meat it contains. 

1247. EEL-PIE, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Bone two good-sized Thames eels, spread them out on a dish, and 
sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt. Make some quenelle 
force-meat with either perch, tench, or carp : and after having mixed 
some chopped mushrooms, parsley, one shalot, spread a thick layer of 
it inside eaeh eel, roll them up, cut the eel into four-inch lengths, and 
place them on a dish until wanted. Next, line a plain mould with short 
26 



418 COLD RAISED PIES. 

paste (No. 1253), arrange the pieces of eels in it, in neat order, season 
between each layer with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and 
salt, and a spoonful of good Bechamel sauce ; cover in the pie, in the 
usual manner, with some of the paste, pinch the edge round, ornament 
the top, egg it over, and bake it in the oven for about an hour and a 
half: when done, dish it up on a napkin, and send to table. 

Note. — When eel-pies are intended to be eaten cold, the top should 
be carefully removed, and the pie ornamented with aspic-jelly. 

1248. SALMON-PIE, A LA RTJSSE. 

Make two pounds of short paste (No. 1253), roll it up in a cloth, 
and keep it in a cool place till wanted. Cut two pounds of fresh 
salmon iu slices about half an inch thick, and set them aside on a plate; 
fillet six anchovies, turn two dozen olives (removing the stone, by 
paring off the outer part without altering the shape), boil six eggs hard, 
and place the whole of these on a dish. Chop a pottle of mushrooms, 
two shalots, a handful of parsley, a little green-thyme, sweet basil, and 
tarragon ; put these ingredients into a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and simmer them over the 
stove-fire for about five minutes ; then add about half a pint of good 
brown sauce, and the juice of a lemon, stir the whole together over the 
stove-fire for five minutes longer, and then take it off. Next, roll out 
two-thirds of the paste to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, and 
after having thinly spread the inside of an oblong mould with butter, 
line it with this, and fill it with alternate layers of the slices of salmon, 
hard eggs, olives, and fillets of anchovies, at the same time spreading 
some of the fine-herbs sauce in between each layer ; the pie must be 
covered with the remainder of the paste in the usual manner; bake it 
in a moderately-heated oven for about one hour and a half, and when 
done, dish it up on a napkin, and send to table. 

Note. — These pies may also be made with sturgeon, trout, mackerel, 
char, gurnets, eels, soles, &c: the addition of some sliced thunny* 
tends considerably to improve the flavor. 

1249. PRESERVED HARE, AND OTHER GAME. 

Bone a hare, lard it with narrow square strips of fat bacon, well 
seasoned with aromatic spices (No. 1250), and salt: then garnish the 
inside with some force-meat of fat livers (No. 247), and fold the hare 
so as to give to it a plump oval form ; then place it in an oval stewpan 
with a small glass of brandy; cover it with thin layers of fat bacon, put 
the lid on the stewpan, and set it in the oven, in order that the hare 
maybe sufficiently baked to set the meat : it should be then withdrawn. 

Meanwhile, line the bottom and sides of an oval white earthen pan 
(sufficiently large to contain the hare) with thin layers of fat bacon, 
over these spread a coating of the force-meat about an inch thick, and 
place the hare in it, press it down tight, spread a thick layer of the 
force-meat on the top, cover this with layers of fat bacon, and place 
a covering of common paste over the whole ; then, set the pan on a 

* Thunny is a fish abounding in the Mediterranean, and which is procurable, preserved 
in oil, at all the Italian warehouses. 



DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE. 419 

baking-sheet, and put it in the oven to bake slowly for about two 
hours : it should then be withdrawn and allowed to cool. Let the 
paste be removed, the edges and sides of the pan washed, and the 
contents of the pan pressed down tight, so as to exclude any confined 
air, and after pouring over the surface some well-reduced glaze (made 
from the carcass), to the depth of about a quarter of an inch, keep the 
pie in a cool place until wanted for use. 

When this kind of pie is intended to be kept for any length of time, 
some clean hog's-lard should be run over the surface to the depth of 
about an inch ; when this has become set firm by cooling, the pan 
should be covered in with strong white paper pasted over it, or in 
lieu of this, a bladder (soaked in water, and well washed) may be tied 
over it. 

Note. — All kinds of game should be preserved in the above method ; 
but, if preferred, game may be used instead of livers for making the 
force-meat. Indeed, this is by far the best plan when the preserved 
game is intended for keeping, as force-meat, when made with livers of 
any kind, is more liable to fermentation than when made with fresh- 
killed game. 

1250. AROMATIC-SPICES, FOR SEASONING. 

Take of nutmegs and mace, one ounce each ; of cloves and white 
pepper-corns, two ounces each ; of sweet-basil, marjoram, and thyme, 
one ounce each, and half an ounce of bay-leaves : these herbs should 
be previously dried for the purpose : roughly pound the spices, then 
place the whole of the above ingredients between two sheets of strong 
white paper, and after the sides have been twisted or folded over 
tightly, so as to prevent as much as possible the evaporation of the 
volatile properties of the herbs and spices, place them on a baking- 
sheet in the skreen to become perfectly dry ; they must then be pounded 
quickly, sifted through a fine hair-sieve, corked up tightly in a d' y 
bottle, and kept for use. 



DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE, 



Hot-water-Paste, for Raised Pie. JVoui'Wes-Paste. 

French Paste, for do. Office do. 

Short Paste, for Timbales, &o. Almond do. 

Short Puff- Paste. Gum do, 

Tart-Paste. Puff do. 

1251. HOT-WATER PASTE, FOR RAISED PIES. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, four ounces of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, about a gill and a half of hot water. 

Place the flour on the pastry-table, spread it out with the back of 
the hand, so as to form a well or hollow in the centre, into this put 
the salt. Next, put the butter and water into a stewpan over the fire, 
and when they are sufficiently heated, so that one can just bear the 



420 DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE. 

finger in, pour them both gradually in upon the flour, and mix them 
quickly together with the hand, taking particular care to knead the 
whole firmly, and at once, into a compact paste : then press this 
smoothly together in a napkin, and afterward keep it covered up in a 
stewpan in a warm place till used. 

1252. FRENCH PASTE ? FOR RAISED PIES. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, four ounces of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a gill and a half of cold water. 

Place the flour on the slab, spread it out in the centre, then add 
the salt, water, and butter, and proceed to work the whole together 
with the hands into a very firm paste in the following manner: — When 
the ingredients have been worked into a paste, this must be brought 
to the edge of the slab ; then use the palms of both hands, applying 
them alternately, with great force, to spread and divide the paste into 
small parts ; sprinkle a few drops of water over the paste, and knead 
it together : this is called breaking and kneading, and must be repeated 
three or four times. The paste must then be gathered up, placed in a 
clean rubber, and finally kneaded together by pressing upon it with the 
elbow. It will then be ready for use. 

1253. SHORT-PASTE, FOR TIMBALES, ETC. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and nearly half a pint of 
water. 

Make a well in the centre of the flour, place in this the yolks of 
eggs, salt, butter, and two-thirds ^©f the water, then work the whole 
together with the hands into a somewhat firm paste; dip the fingers 
into the flour, to separate any of the paste that may adhere to them, 
sprinkle a little water over it, and then work the whole together into a 
ball, and keep it in a cloth till wanted for use. 

1254. SHORT PUFF-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, twelve ounces of butter, a 
little salt, one egg, and about half a pint of water. 

Spread the flour out in the usual manner, place the egg, salt, half 
the butter, and two-thirds of the water at first, adding as much of the 
remainder as maybe necessary afterward ; work these together into 
a smooth and somewhat firm paste, then spread this out with the 
baud, and after the remaining half of the butter has been placed in 
the centre, the sides should be folded over so as to entirely enclose 
the butter. When the paste has stood five minutes, shake some flour 
with the hand over the slab and on the paste, then roll it out to the 
length of about two feet and a half, and about a foot wide ; this must 
be then folded into three, and after turning the paste round so as to 
bring the sides to face you, roll it out again in a similar manner; after 
an interval of about ten miuutes, repeat the rolling* twice more : the 
paste will then be fit for use. 

* Each time that the paste undergoes the process of rolling, as here described, it is 
termed by cooks, " giving it u turn." This kind of p»ste requires only four turns. 



SHORT-PASTE, ETC. 421 

1255. SHORT-PASTE FOR TARTS. 

Ingredients: — One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, two 
ounces of pounded sugar, a very little salt, two whole eggs, and about 
a gill of water. 

Spread the flour out on the slab with a hollow in the centre, then add 
the butter, sugar, salt, and the water, and break in the two eggs; work 
the whole together with the hands into a firm paste, and use it for 
covering fruit tarts, and lining tartlets, &c. 

1256. NOUILLES-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, about ten yolks of eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and merely sufficient water to melt the salt. 

Place the flour on the slab, form a hollow in the centre, then put 
the salt in, with a little water to melt it, and add the yolks of eight 
eggs ; work the whole well together, at first rubbing the ingredients 
between the hands, and then, if necessary, add two more yolks of 
eggs, and finish working the paste by pushing it from you with the 
pal nag of the hands, using considerable pressure ; sprinkle a few drops 
of water over it, then kuead the paste into a ball, and keep it wrapped 
up in a cloth until wanted for use. This paste must be kept very 
stiff. 

1257. OFFICE-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar, 
two whole eggs, and two yolks. 

Place the flour on the slab, forming a hollow in the centre, then 
add the sugar and the eggs, and proceed to work the whole up into a 
stiff, compact body. If, however, the paste should appear dry, and 
present any difficulty in kneading, another yolk or two may be 
added. 

This paste is mostly used for making ornaments for the second 
course. 

1258. ALMOND-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of Jordan almonds, a pound and a half 
of sugar, with half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

First, scald the almonds, remove the skin, wash them, and allow 
them to steep in cold water for about twelve hours. Next, put the 
gum into a galley-pot, adding to it rather more than a gill of water, 
cover this over with paper twisted round the edge of the galley-pot, 
and allow the gum to steep until it has absorbed all the water ; it 
must then be placed in the centre of a strong cloth, which should be 
twisted round at each end by two persons (in the manner practised 
in wringing wet cloths) with considerable pressure, so as to squeeze 
the gum through the cloth, which must then be gathered up into a 
small basin. Pound the sugar and sift it through a very fine lawn- 
sieve. 

The almonds must now be drained on a napkin, afterwards placed 
in a mortar, and pounded into a very smooth paste ; in order to pre- 
vent them from turning oily, while they are being pounded, it will be 
necessary to add a few drops of water or lemon-juice occasionally. 
As soon as the almonds present the appearance of a smooth paste, rub 
this through a very close hair-sieve, on to a plate. Next, place the 



422 DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE. 

ponnded almonds in a convenient-sized sugar boiler, with about one- 
third part of the sugar, and stir these together over a stove-fire with 
a new wooden spoon, working the paste briskly and carefully the 
whole time, in order to prevent it from burning or acquiring the least 
color. As soon as the paste ceases to adhere to the sides of the pan, 
turn it out on to the slab, and begin to work in the remainder of the 
sugar and the gum ; the latter must be previously worked on the 
marble slab with the hand, and some of the sugar should be added at 
intervals. When the whole of the ingredients have been worked 
together, the paste should form a white, stiff, and smooth compact 
body. 

Note. — Almond paste, prepared as the above, is mostly used for 
making croquantes, small baskets filled with whipped cream and straw- 
berries, &c. : it may also be used for making second-course ornaments ; 
being preferred by many for that purpose on account of its trans- 
parency. 

1259. ALMOND-PASTE, ANOTHER METHOD. 

Ingredients: — Two pounds of fine-sifted sugar, eight ounces of 
pounded almonds, and one ounce of steeped gum-dragon. 

When the ingredients have been prepared as directed in the fore- 
going case, work about half the sugar in with the gum ; then work the 
almonds with part of the remainder, add both together, and manipu- 
late them with the remaining portion of the sugar, until the whole is 
thoroughly incorporated. If the paste is not stiff enough, a little more 
fine-sifted sugar should be filled in. In order to obtain this paste of 
a pure and dazzling whiteness, a very small quantity of cobalt blue, in 
powder, may be worked in with it , the color must be first mixed on a 
plate with a drop of water, preparatory to its being used. 

Note. — About one-third part of starch, or hair powder, may be used 
to work in with this kind of almond paste ; this addition makes it less 
brittle, and consequently increases the facility of usiug it to cast mould- 
ings, cutting out borders, &c. When, however, starch powder is intro- 
duced, double the usual quantity of gum-dragon is required. 

1260. GUM-PASTE. 

Ingredients : — Two ounces of gum-dragon, one pound of fine-sifted 
sugar, and one pound of starch powder. 

First, steep the gum-dragon in a small basin with nearly half a pint 
of water, cover it over with paper, and put the basin in a warm place : 
when the gum has absorbed all the water, press it through a cloth as 
directed for the almond paste, then work it on the marble slab with the 
palm of the hand, mixing in the sugar at intervals ; when the gum has 
absorbed all the sugar, the powder must be gradually worked in with 
it. The whole, when finished, should have the appearance of a very 
stiff compact smooth paste. Then gather it up into a round ball, put 
it on a plate covered with a basin, and keep it in a damp place, to pre- 
vent its becoming dry and hard. 

1261. PUFF-PASTE. 

Ingredieets : — One pound of flour, one pound of butter, the yolk 
of an egg, a tea-spoonful of salt, and about half a pint of water. 



PUFF-PASTE. 423 

Place the flour on the pastry-slab, spread it out in the centre, so as 
to form a well, in which place the salt, a small piece of butler, the 
yolk of -an ctrir, and about two-thirds of the quantity of water required 
to mix the paste ; spread out the lingers of the right hand, and mix the 
ingredients together gradually with the tips of the fingers, adding a 
little more water, if necessary ; when the whole is thoroughly incorpo- 
rated together, sprinkle a few drops of water over it, and work the 
paste to and fro on the slab for two minutes, after which it should be 
rather soft to the touch, and present a perfectly smooth appearance. 

The [taste, thus far prepared, must now be spread out on the slab 
with the hands, and after the butter has been pressed in a cloth, to ex- 
tract any milk it may contain, it should be placed in the centre of the 
paste, and partially spread, by pressing on it with the cloth ; the four 
sides should then be folded over so as entirely to cover the butter; a 
little flour must next be shaken under and over it, and the paste should 
be shaped in a square form, measuring about ten inches each way, by 
pressing it out with the hand ; it should then be placed on a clean 
baking-sheet, laid on some pounded rough ice,* and a deep sautapan 
also filled with ice should be placed upon it : by these means the paste 
will be kept cool and firm. About ten minutes after the paste has been 
made, take it from the ice and place it on a marble slab, shake a little 
flour over and under it, and then roll it out about two feet long, and 
ten inches wide ; observing that the paste must be kept square at both 
ends, as much of the success depends on due attention being paid to 
the turning and folding. The paste should then be laid in three equal 
folds, and after these have been rolled over to cause them to adhere 
together, the paste must next be turned round in the opposite direction 
and rolled out again in the same manner as before ; it should then be 
put back on the ice, and after allowing it to rest for about ten minutes 
or a quarter of an hour, roll it out again, or, as it is technically termed, 
give it two more turns ; the paste must now be put back on the ice, 
and again rolled twice or three times, as the case may require, prepara- 
tory to its being cut out for whatever purpose it may be intended. 

* In the summer season it is impossible to insure success in making puff-paste, unless 
rough ice be used to further that end, it being a matter of the first necessity that it 
should be kept cool and firm : two requisites that tend materially to facilitate the work- 
ing of the paste, and also contribute very considerably to give to it that extraordinary 
degree of elasticity, when exposed to the heat of an oven, so well known to experienced 
pastrycooks. Apiece of puff-paste, a quarter of an inch thick, when baked, will rise to 
the height of two inches — thus increasing in volume eight times. To effect this prop- 
erly, it is necessary to procure three oblong tin pans, of the following dimensions: the 
first should measure 20 inches by Hi, depth .'! inches ; the second, IS inches by 14, depth 
2 inches; and the third, 16 inches by 12, depth 3 inches. Place some pounded rough 
ice in the largest, then set the second-sized tin on this, with the puff-paste in it; lastly, 
put the smallest pan, also filled with ice, on the top of the paste: by this method puff- 
paste may be easily made to perfection during the hottest days of summer. 

In winter, the use of ice may, of course, be dispensed with. In extreme cold weather, 
when the butter is very hard, it will be necessary to press it in a cloth or on the slab, to 
give it more expansion, and thus facilitate its incorporation with the paste. Care must 
be taken, in mixing the paste, not to make it too stiff, especially in summer, as, in that 
case, it becomes not only troublesome to work, but it also affects its elasticity in baking. 



424 



YOL-AU-YENT, TOURTE, AND PATTY CASES. 



COMPRISING 



Vol-au-vent Cases, for an Entrie. Timbale of Nouilles Cases. 

Tourte ditto ditto. Patties, a la Mazarine. 

Puff-paste Patty Cases. Mutton Patties, d la Windnor. 
Crdustade ditto. 

1262. VOL-AU-VENT CASES, FOR AN" ENTREE. 

Eor this purpose, one pound of puff-paste will be required, and 
when mixing it, the juice of one lemon must be added. The paste 
must be rolled perfectly square at the ends, and folded likewise with 
the greatest correctness, in order to ensure the vol-au-venVs rising per- 
fectly straight all round, which cannot be the case if it is rolled un- 
evenly. Five turns and a half must be given to the paste, allowing 
about seven minutes to elapse between each turn : observing that 
previously to folding up the last turn and a half, the paste must be 
passed over with a paste-brnsh dipped in water or a little lemon-juice ; 
attention must be paid, in giving the last two turns, to roll the paste 
out, and also to fold it, especially when giving the last turn on spread- 
ing it to the size the vol-au-vent is intended to be made, so as to be 
able to cut it as thick as the quantity of paste will admit of; just be- 
fore cutting out the vol-au-vent, the piece of paste must be wetted on 
one side with the brush dipped in water. Next, roll out about four 
ounces of common paste to the diameter of a dinner-plate, lay this on 
the puff-paste, just passing the rolling-pin over to cause it to adhere, 
and then place it on the baking-sheet, previously wetted in the centre 
to receive it. For the purpose of guiding the hand when cutting it 
out, the cover of a stewpan or bain-marie should be placed on it ; then 
with a small sharp-pointed knife proceed to cut round the edge of the 
cover, forming perpendicular flutes or scollops ; the knife must be 
held comparatively loose, yet securely, with the tips of the fingers only. 
Remove the trimmings and the cover, egg over the surface, and be 
careful not to smear the edges of the baste, as that would prevent it 
from rising evenly; then wiih the point of the small knife, held slant- 
ing, make a slight incision all round the surface, within about three- 
quarters of an inch of the edge, and with the point notch round the 
extreme edge of the inner circle, so as to separate it entirely from the 
inner edge of the outer circle. The vol-au-vent should now be put into 
the oven (not too hot, as excess of heat prevents the paste from 
rising) ; as soon as it begins to rise, let a trivet be quickly slipped 
under it, and the oven immediately closed. When it lias risen about 
two inches, and before it has acquired any color, a broad band of 
double paper (or a wooden hoop from an old sieve), measuring two 
inches more in circumference than the vol-au-vent, about eight inches 
high, and fastened in the form of a hoop, must be placed round it to 
protect the sides from being suddenly caught by the heat, which 
otherwise would not only scorch it, but also check its full develop- 
ment : it should remain in the oven quite an hour to be thoroughly 



TOURTE CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. 



425 



baked. When the vol-au-vent is done, withdraw it from the oven ; 
instantly remove the cover, and after carefully detaching: all the greasy 
crumb from the centre, without in any way injuring; the sides of the 
case, lift it out, taking particular care to stop up any thinly-covered 
places in the inside of the case with small flakes of the crumb which 
has been removed : this precaution is necessary in order to prevent the 
sauce from escaping through any fissures that may exist. 

1263. TOURTE CASES, FOR AN ENTREE. 




First, prepare half a pound of puff-paste, and give it four turns, in 
the usual manner ; make also half a pound of common short paste, 
take half of this, knead it into a round ball, roll it out to the size of a 
dinner-plate, put it on a round baking-sheet, and place a tarapoon* of 
paper in the centre. The puff-paste must then be rolled out about 
twenty inches long, wetted over with the brush dipped in water, and 
folded lengthwise in three ; this must be rolled again in its width, just 
sufficient to make it about four inches wide : the paste should then 
be slightly wetted over, and then folded as before : by this time, it 
should form a baud, measuring about twenty inches long by nearly 
two inches wide, and about half an inch thick. The edges of the paste 
must now be pared away, with a small sharp knife, held perpendicu- 
larly in the right haud, whilst the paste must be slightly pressed on 
the slab with the fore-part of the fingers. Next, add the trimmings 
of the puff-paste to the remaining half of the common paste, knead 
both together, roll this out to the size of a plate, and after having 
first wetted the foundation round the edge, place it over the tampoon 
and press it down all round with the thumb ; then wet the edge of 
the toarte round again, and apply the band in the following manner. 
Take hold of the band at both ends, and begin by fastening that held 
in the right hand round the edge of the tourte, and continue fixing 
the band all round as fast as it is dropped in its place with the left 
hand ; press the first eud down so as to thin it, wet this part with the 
brush, and after paring away a little of the other end, so as to thin that 
also, fasten both together by effectually joining them. Press the band 
down all round with the thumb, and flute it round the edge by jagging 
it slightly with the back of a knife. 

The tourte must then be edged over with a paste-brush, so as to 
carefully avoid smearing the edges of the band. Place it in a mode- 
rately-heated oven, and let it be baked of a light color ; when done, 

• From the French word tampon, a kind of small, hard cushion : in the present case, 
it should consist of a large sheet of rather soft paper, twisted in the form oi' a circular 
cushion, about four inches in diameter. 



426 PUFF-PASTE, PATTY CASES, ETC. 

withdraw it, make an incision with a small knife all round the bottom 
of the crown, inside the band, remove the crown or top, take out the 
tampoou, and the case will then be ready for garnishing. 

1264. PUFF-PASTE, PATTY-CASES. 

Make one pound of puff-paste in the manner described in No. 1261, 
and give it seven turns, wetting the last turn before folding it ; then 
roll the paste out so as to leave it scarcely a quarter of an inch thick, 
and about three minutes afterwards, take a fluted circular tin-cutter 
about two inches in diameter, and use this to stamp out as many 
patties as may be required ; previously to stamping out each patty, 
the cutter should be first dipped in very hot water, as the heat thus 
imparted to the cutter causes it to slip easily through the paste, and 
produces the same effect as if it were cut with a sharp knife ; in con- 
sequence of there being little or no pressure on the edges, the paste 
has thus a much better chance of rising while baking, especially in the 
summer season. As soon as the patties are cut out, they should be 
immediately placed in rows, on a baking-sheet previously wetted over, 
about two inches apart from each other ; then egg them over with a 
soft brush dipped in beaten egg, being careful not to smear the edges, 
and stamp them in the centre, making a slight incision through their 
surface, with a plain circular tin-cutter about one inch and a half in 
diameter (this cutter must also be dipped in hot water each time it is 
used). The patties should then be quickly put in the oven and baked 
of a light color ; when done, let the covers or tops be removed, pick 
out the inner crumb carefully with the point of a small knife, and 
then place the patties with their tops on a baking-sheet lined with 
clean paper. 

1265. CROU9TADE CASES. 

Roll out half a pound of timbale paste (No. 1253) to the thickness 
of a penny-piece, then take a circular tin-cutter, about four inches in 
diameter, and stamp out a dozen flats ; next, press one of these on 
the end of a circular piece of wood, about six inches long by about 
one and a quarter in diameter (or failing this, cut a carrot to that 
shape). Line a dariole -moa\d, previously slightly spread with butter, 
with the paste so prepared : use the thumb to make the paste lie 
evenly in the mould, trim away the edges, raise the sides a little, then 
fill each cruustade so finished with flour, mixed with a fourth part of 
chopped suet, and bake them of a light color; when done, empty 
them, brush them out, and place them on a dish. The tops must be 
stamped out with a small circular fluted cutter, from some puff-paste, 
rolled seven turns ; put these on a baking sheet previously wetted to 
receive them, egg them over with a soft brush, place a much smalhr 
circular piece of paste on the top of each, egg these over, and t hen 
bake them of a bright light color ; when done, trim them, and place 
each on the top of one of the croustades after they are garnished. 

1266. TIMBALE OF NOUILLES CASES. 

Prepare the nouilles as directed in No. 7*74, and parboil them in 
water for ten minutes, then drain them thoroughly on a sieve ; after- 
ward toss them with two ounces of butter, a spoonful of good Jiv- 
chamelrs&nce (No. 5), and a little grated nutmeg, in a stewpan over the 



MUTTON PATTIES, A LA WINDSOR. 427 

stove-fire for five minutes ; then, throw them into a sautapan, full two 
inches deep, previously slightly spread with butter ; cover them down 
evenly with a circular piece of buttered paper, and allow them to be- 
come perfectly cold. The preparations must then be turned out of the 
sautapan on the table, upon a sheet of paper ; and the croustades or 
limbales should be stamped out of this with a plain circular tin-cutter 
about an inch and a half in diameter, and placed on a dish ; they must 
next be rolled in very fine fresh-made bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped 
in beaten egg, and then bread-crumbed over again : smooth the bread- 
crumbs on the timbales by rolling and patting them, place them in neat 
order on a dish, and with a plain circular cutter, an inch in diameter, 
stamp out the surface of each, exactly in the centre, making only a 
slight incision. When about to send the timbales to table, place them 
carefully in neat order on the wire lining of a deep frying-pan (half 
filled with clean hog's-lard, made quite hot ; immerse them in the fat, 
and fry them of a bright yellow color ; when done, drain them ou a 
cloth, and empty them carefully with a fork. 

Note. — Croustades or small timbales may also be made of vermicelli, 
prepared in the same way as nouilles. Rice may also be used for the 
same purpose. 

1267. PATTIES, A LA MAZARIN. 

Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the 
thickness of a penny-piece, and stamp out two dozen tops with a plain 
circular tin-cutter, about one inch and a half in diameter ; then gather 
up the trimmings, knead them together, roll them out, and stamp two 
dozen more ; place these on a baking-sheet, about an inch and a half 
apart from each other, and wet them over with a soft brush ; garnish the 
centre of each with a little force-meat of any kind, place the tops on them, 
and use the upper part of a smaller cutter to press them down, so as 
to fasten the two parts together ; they must then be egged over, and 
baked in a rather brisk oven ; when done, dish them up on a napkin, 
and serve. 

1268. MUTTON PATTIES, A LA WINDSOR. 

Trim the lean parts of a loin of mutton, free from fat and sinew ; 
cut this up into small scollops, mix these with some fine-herbs, consist- 
ing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot ; season with pepper 
and salt, and add a ragout-s-poonfnl of reduced Espagnole sauce ; use 
the preparation to fill some croustades lined with short paste, cover 
them with some of the same kind of paste, and bake them of a light 
color. When done, remove the tops from the patties, pour a little thin 
Espagnole or Italian sauce in each, cover them with puff-paste tops 
(made similar to croustade tops), and serve. 

Note. — Croustades and patties are garnished with scollops or ragouts 
of chicken, game, all kinds of fillets of fish, the tails of crayfish, prawns 
and shrimps, with oysters in scollops, small dice, and also with lobster 
cut up in small dice. They may be sauced either with Supreme, Be- 
chamel, or Allemande, Lobster, Oyster, or Crayfish sauces. 



428 



CAKES IN GENERAL, 



COMPRISING 



Brioche Paste. 

Baba, or Polish Cake. 

Compiigne Cake. 

German Koxiglauff. 

Parisian Cake. 

Victoria Cake. 

Savarin. 

Savoy Cake. 

Finger, or Naples Biscuit. 

Plum Cake. 

Scotch Bread. 

Plain Seed Cake. 

Brussels Biscuits, or Busks. 

Pound Cake. 

Flemish Gauffres. 

French Gauffres. 

Almond Gauffres, 

Nougats. 

Parisian Nougats. 

Small Nougats, a la ChantiUy. 

Genoese Cakes. 

Genoese Cakes, with Almonds. 

Math IrinfK. 

Spanish Cake (Petite-choux). 



Duchess Loaves. 

Petite-choux, with Caramel. 

Profitrolles. 

Mecca Loaves. 

Queen's Cakes. 

Almond Cakes. 

Meringues. 

Italian Biscuits. 

Venetian do. 

Swedish Macaroons. 

Brown-Bread Biscuits. 

Ginger Cakes. 

Champagne Biscuits. 

Orange do. 

Peach do. 

Apricot do. 

Chocolate Glade. 

Varieties of other Glacis. 

Suisse Lecrelets. 

Sicilian Biscuits. 

Bussian do. 

Alhert do. 

Victoria do. 



1269. BRIOCHE PASTE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, half an 
ounce of German yeast, a tea-spoonful each of salt and sugar, and about 
seven eggs. 

Put one-fourth part of the flour on the slab, spread it out to form a 
well, then place the yeast in the centre, and proceed to dissolve it with 
a little tepid water; when this is effected, add sufficient water to mix 
the whole into a rather soft paste ; knead this into the form of a round 
ball, put it into a stewpan capable of containing three times its quan- 
tity, score it round the sides with a knife, put the lid on and set it to 
rise in a rather warm place ; in winter it may be put in the skreen, but 
in hot weather the fermentation will proceed more satisfactorily if it is 
merely placed on the kitchen table, or in some such place of moderate 
warmth. This part of the operation is termed setting the sponge. 
Next, put the remainder of the flour on the slab, and spread it out in 
the centre to form the well ; then place the salt and sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of water to dissolve these, after which the butter must be added ; 
break in six eggs, and work the whole together with the hands until 
well mixed, first working it between the hands, and then robbing it 
with both fists held flat on the slab, and moving them to and fro, so as 
to thoroughly reduce any remaining lumps in the paste. By the time 
the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen sufficiently ; to 
be perfect, it must rise to three times its original size ; when spread out on 



BRIOCHE PASTE. 429 

the paste prepared to receive it, it should present the appearance of a 
sponge, from which it takes its name. 

Both the above should be then immediately, gently, but thoroughly 
mixed. A napkin must be spread in a wooden bowl, or a basin, some 
flower shaken over it, and the brioche -paste lifted into it ; then shake 
a little flour over the paste, and after throwing the ends of the napkin 
over all, set the bowl containing the paste in a cool place, free from any 
current of air. 

It is usual to make this kind of paste late in the evening previously 
to the day on which it is required for use. The first thing on the 
following morning, the brioche-paste must be turned off the napkin on 
to the slab ; then shake some flour under and over it, and fold the 
paste over half a dozen times, pressing it down with the knuckles each 
time ; put the paste back again into the bowl in the same way as before ; 
and about three hours afterwards, knead it again in a similar manner, 
previously to its being baked. 

If the paste, when finished, appears to be full of small globules of 
air, and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is certain to be well made, 
and, when baked, will be both light and of a bright clear color. 

If the paste is intended to be made into one brioche only, take five- 
sixths of it, mould this into the form of a round ball or cushion, and 
place it in a plain mould or paper-case* (previously spread with butter) 
with the smooth surface uppermost; press it down in the case with the 
knuckles, and, after moulding the remaining piece of paste in a similar 
manner, first, wet the surface of the other part over with the paste- 
brush dipped in water, and then, after inserting the pointed end of this 
into the centre of that portion of the brioche which has been already 
placed in the case, press the head down upon it with the back of the 
hand ; egg the brioche over with a paste-brush, score the sides slightly, 
in a slanting direction, place it on a baking-sheet and put it in the oven 
(at moderate heat). As soon as the brioche begins to rise, and has 
acquired a slight degree of color, let it be covered over with a sheet of 
paper : about two hours will suffice to bake a large brioche of double 
the quantity of paste described in this article. 

Note. — Brioches may be varied in their form, when intended to be 
served as fancy bread, for breakfast, &c. ; in which case they should be 
moulded in the shape of twists, fingers, rings, &c. When served on 
the refreshment table, at routs, public breakfasts, balls, &c, dried 
cherries, citron, candied orange or lemon-peel, pine-apple or angelica, 
steeped in some kind of liqueur, may be introduced; in either of these 
cases, previously to mixing in the fruit, part of the paste must be 

* The ease is thus made. For a large brioche, intended to be served as a second- 
course remove, take a large sheet of Bristol-board, and cut a band from this, measuring 
about two feet long by eight inches broad ; the two ends should be sewed together with 
strong thread, and some small bands of paper, smeared over with flour-and-water paste, 
should bo stuck over the sewing to make it more secure. This hoop should then be 
placed upon a circular piece of the pasteboard, cut to fit its circumference, and both 
these must be securely fastened together by placing small strips of paper (pasted over) 
all round the angle of the bottom part of the case; these must be placed close together 
and crosswise, with one end fastened under the case, while the other is lapped round 
the angle and fastened at the side. These strips of paper, after becoming very dry, 
should receive another row over them, to make the case stronger. 



430 CAKES. 

reserved, which, after being rolled out, must be used to enclose the 
other part of the brioche. This precaution is necessary to prevent the 
fruit from protruding through the paste, as it becomes calcined by the 
heat of the oven, and gives an unsightly appearance to the sponge. 
When fruit has been mixed in a brioche, it should be (when baked; 
glazed with fine sugar by the salamander. 

Gruyere or Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, are sometimes 
introduced in a brioche for a second-course remove; the first should 
be cut up in dice, the latter grated. As in the above cases, this kind 
of brioche must be enclosed in a portion of the paste reserved for that 
purpose. 

1270. BABA, OR POLISH CAKE. 

Ingredients : — Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, four 
ounces of sugar, six ounces of muscatel raisins, four ounces of currants, 
two ounces of candied citron, a good pinch of saffron, two wine-glasses 
of brandy, and the same quantity of rum, half an ounce of salt, about 
fifteen eggs, and one ounce of German yeast. 

First, set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, 
in the same way as directed for preparing brioche. Then, spread out 
the remainder of the flour so as to form a hollow in the centre : place 
in this the butter and salt previously dissolved with a drop or two of 
water, four ounces of pounded sugar, and break in fifteen eggs : mix 
the whole thoroughly, working the paste with the hands on the slab. 
When this is effected, gather the paste up closely, and take up portions 
of it with the hands, and jerk or throw these down again on the other 
part of the paste ; continue working it in this fashion for five minutes, 
then, if the sponge is sufficiently ris^n, spread it out over the paste and 
mix both together lightly. A large mould should now be spread with 
butter, and lined not more than half through with a thin coating of the 
paste, and as soon as this has been effected, all the fruit, the rum, the 
brandy, and an infusion of the saffron, must be added ; the whole of 
which must be instantly well mixed and lifted into the mould. 

The baba should next be set, to rise gradually, in a place where the 
temperature is moderate and free from any current of air ; and as soon 
as it has risen in a satisfactory manner, which may easily be known by 
its increasing sufficiently in quantity (through fermentation), to nearly 
fill the mould, — although at first only half filled, the baba should be 
immediately placed in the oven on a thick baking-sheet, with a thick 
roll of paper round the bottom of the mould to protect the baba from 
receiving too much heat at first. From one hour and a half to two 
hours will suffiee to bake it. 

Particular care should be taken in baking the baba, to prevent its 
acquiring a deep color ; to obviate this, it must be baked in an oven 
of moderate heat. 

1271. COMPIEGNE CAKE. 

Ingredients : — Two pounds of flour, twenty-two ounces of butter, 
half a pint of double cream, six ounces of pounded sugar, two wine- 
glasses of maraschino, one ounce of German yeast, fifteen eggs, and 
half an ounce of salt. 

Set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast iq 



PARISIAN CAKE. 431 

the usual way (see Brioche No. 1269), and while it is rising, prepare 
the paste at follows : — 

Place the remainder of the flour on the marble slab, spread it out 
in the centre to form the well, place in this the salt, and sugar (with a 
very little water to dissolve the salt), the butter and eggs, and pro- 
ceed to mix these thoroughly in the same way as brioche ; just before 
adding the sponge, mix in the maraschino and the whipped cream. 
The paste must be instantly lifted into an appropriate-sized mould, 
previously spread with butter, and deposited in a comparatively-cool 
place to rise, or ferment in the usual manner : as soon as it has nearly 
reached the surface of the mould, stick a band of paper round the 
edge, and put it in the oven to bake, at a very moderate heat ; remem- 
bering that an essential characteristic of this kind of cake, is a light 
color. 

It is customary to eat the Compiegne cake hot, and it is served in 
various ways. When turned (nit of the mould, a small piece should 
be taken out of the centre of the top, and a few glasses of maraschino 
poured in through the opening; or, the cake may be cut up in hori- 
zontal slices half an inch thick, and previously to putting them to- 
gether again, some apricot marmalade maybe placed between each. 
Dried cherries and angelica may be introduced in the composition of 
these cakes, previously to their being baked. 

1272. GERMAN KOUGLAUFF. 

Ingredients : — Two pounds of flour, one pound and a quarter of 
butter, eight whole eggs, and eight yolks; one and a quarter ounce 
of German yeast, four ounces of sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon 
powder, and grated lemon-peel, or the rind of lemon rubbed on lump 
sugar, and afterwards scraped off, half an ounce of salt, half a pint of 
single (•: , eam, and six ounces of Jordan almonds. 

First, place the butter in a convenient-sized white kitchen pan, and 
work it with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, by which 
time the butter should present the appearance of a thick cream; the 
cinnamon, lemon and sugar, the pounded sugar, about one-fourth part 
of the (lour, and three eggs should then be added, and the whole 
quickly worked together for a. few minutes ; then add the remainder 
of the flour and eggs gradually, still continuing to work the paste with 
the wooden spoon. When the whole has been used up, spread the 
paste out in the centre, and add the yeast (previously dissolved with 
the salt in the cream made tepid for the purpose); work the whole 
thoroughly, then pour this batter into a large mould, previously spread 
with butter, split the almonds, and place them round the inside of the 
mould in close order. Bake the kourjlauf in an oven of moderate 
heat. Its color should be of a bright reddish yellow. 

In Germany, it is customary to shake some cinnamon sugar all over 
this kind of cake as soon as it is turned out of the mould. 

1273. PARISIAN CAKE. 

Ingredients. — Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, six 
ounces of sugar, eight whole k'^^a and eight yolks, one pint of single 
cream, eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and two ounces of bitter ditto, 
eight ounces of pistachio kernels, four ounces of candid orange-peel, 
half an ounce of salt, one and a quarter ounce of yeast. 



432 CAKES. 

First, let the pistachio kernels be scalded, remove the hulls, split 
each kernel into four strips, and place these aside in a small basin. 
The candied orange-peel must then be shred into small thin narrow- 
strips, and put with the pistachios. Next, remove the hulls from the 
almonds, wash and pound them into a very soft paste (adding a few 
drops of water to prevent them from becoming oily), then mix them 
with the cream, and after they have steeped for half an hour, let the 
whole be rubbed through a tammy, the same as a puree, and kept in 
very cool place until wanted for use. 

For mixing this cake, follow in all respect the directions given for 
the German kouglauff (No. 1272), adding the pistachios and orange- 
peel after lining the mould with the plain paste ; the yeast must be 
dissolved in a little tepid water, and the almonds and cream added 
cold. It should be baked nearly of the same color as a Savoy cake. 

Note. — Tt is necessary to put all these cakes back in the oven for 
two or three minutes, after they are turned out of the mould, to pre- 
vent them from becoming shriveled on the surface, or from otherwise 
shrinking and falling in, which is unavoidably the case when any steam 
has collected upon them. 

1274. VICTORIA CAKE. 

Ingredients : — Two pounds of flour, twenty ounces of butter, 
twelve eggs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six ounces of ground or 
pounded almonds, also a few bitter ditto, eight ounces of dried cher- 
ries, four ounces of green citron cut up in shreds, half an ounce of 
cinnamon powder, half a pint of whipped cream, one ounce and a 
quarter of German yeast, two wine-glasses of brandy, and half an 
ounce of salt. "* 

Mix the above ingredients according to the directions given for the 
German kouglai'iff : except that the yeast must be dissolved in a 
spoonful of tepid water, and the cream whipped previously to its 
being added the last thing. When the cake is mixed, it should be 
placed in a tin hoop, measuring about ten inches in diameter by four 
inches deep. A double sheet of paper, spread with butter, should be 
first placed on a stout copper baking-sheet, and the hoop, also lined 
with paper, next placed upon it, ready to receive the mixture. As 
soon as the fermentation of the paste has taken place in a satisfactory 
degree, causing it to increase to twice its original quantity, let it be 
immediately put in the oven (at moderate heat), and baked of a light 
color. 

This kind of cake may be served as a second-course remove ; some 
apricot marmalade, diluted with a little lemon-juice and wanned, 
should be sent to table with it separately in a sauce-boat, or, if pre- 
ferred, instead of the apricot, some German custard sauce, made in the 
following manner: — 

Put four yolks of eggs in a middle-sized bain-marie, and add two 
ounces of pounded sugar, two wine-glasses of Sherry, and the rind of 
an orange or lemon grated on sugar. Place the bain-marie containing 
these ingredients in a larger stewpan with water sufficient to reach 
about one inch up the outside of the bain-marie ; set this on a slow 
stove-fire, and commence whisking or milling the contents briskly, 
until it appears like a rich-looking frothy custard. Be careful not to 



' SAVOY CAKE. 433 

allow the cream to become too hot, as that would set the yolks of 
eggs, and thereby decompose the custard. 

1274a. SAVAKIN" CAKE. 

Ingredients : — Two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, twenty 
ounces of fresh butter, fifteen eggs, half an ounce of salt, one ounce of 
German yeast, and four ounces of blanched and shred almonds. 

First, set the sponge, with one-fourth part of the flour, and the 
yeast, in the same manner as directed for making brioche. Then, 
while the sponge is placed in a moderate temperature, to admit of its 
rising gradually and satisfactorily, place the remainder of the flour iu 
a large white pan or basin, hollow out the centre, and having first 
placed therein the salt, moistened with a tea-spoonful of water, the 
butter, sugar, and ten whole eggs broken, proceed to manipulate the 
whole with the right hand, beating up the paste until it easily leaves 
the sides of the pan ; you then break in the remainder of the eggs, 
two at a time, until the paste has absorbed the whole ; and, after 
having continued to work it five minutes longer, proceed to fill an 
appropriate-sized mould with it in manner following : — First, let the 
inside of the mould be well buttered, after which, strew the shred 
almonds equally over and about the surface of the interior; next, 
work the paste up again for a minute or two, and put a sufficient 
quantity thereof into the mould to rather more than half fill it. You 
now place the Savarin in a moderate temperature to rise until it has 
nearly filled the mould ; when, after first stickiug a broad band of thick 
paper round the upper part of the mould, so as effectually to prevent 
the batter from running over the sides of the mould, while it is being 
baked, put it into an oven of moderate heat, and bake it for about two 
hours. When done, turn the Savarin out of the mould, and after first 
running a knife into several parts of the surface, pour gently a rather 
thick orange syrup, containing a glassful of cura§ao, over and into the 
Savarin, and send to table quite warm. 

This kind of cake is sometimes, in order to vary its appearance, after 
being first well soaked with a warm rich syrup, rolled all over in orange 
or lemon sugar. 

1275. SAVOY CAKE. 

Ingredients : — One pound of the finest quality of sugar (pounded), 
fourteen eggs, four ounces and a half of the finest flour, and four 
ounces and a half of potato flour. 

First, separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, taking care 
not to drop the least portion of the yolks into the whites, as any mix- 
ture of these renders it impossible to whisk the whites firm. The 
yolks must be put into a kitchen basin, and the whites into an e^o; 
bowl, to be kept in a cool place until used. Add the sugar to the 
yolks, throw in as much salt as will stand on a sixpence, and either 
some vanilla, lemon, or orange sugar, or else a few drops of any kind 
of essence, such as orange, lemon, orange-flowers, vanilla, or bitter 
almonds. Work these together with a wooden spoon, until the whole 
presents the appearance of a thick creamy batter. The whites must 
now be whisked into a firm substantial snowy froth ; while this is 
going on, let both the wheateu and potato flour be well mixed in with 
27 



434 CAKES. 

the batter. As soon as the whites are satisfactorily whisked,* pro- 
ceed to mix them also in with the batter : they must be added in 
small quantities at first, until it has become smoothly diluted ; the 
whole of what remains should then be added, and gently yet 
thoroughly mixed. The batter thus prepared, must now be gently 
poured into a mould previously prepared for the purpose in the 
following manner : — 

About one pound of beef or veal suet should be first chopped very 
fine, then melted down in a stewpan ; after it has been strained 
through a napkin, pour this into the mould, turn it round in all 
directions, so that the fat may touch all the angles and recesses ; it 
must then be poured out, and the mould should be turned upside down 
on a plate, and allowed to stand in a warm place, for a few minutes, 
that the fat may be entirely drained off. About one pound of the finest 
sifted sugar should now be immediately put into the mould, and shaken 
about in it, in order that it may effectually cover the whole of the in- 
side of the mould with a perfectly smooth white surface. Care must 
be taken to avoid leaving a greater quantity of fat adhering to the sides 
of the mould than is positively necessary ; for if there be too thick a 
coating of sugar in the mould, the Savoy cake will be more difficult to 
bake of a light color ; the heat of the oven being liable to partially 
calcine the sugar, and thus darken its hue. 

When the Savoy cake is ready to be baked, tie a broad band of 
paper (folded in three) round the base, and put a few wood-ashes on 
the baking-sheet, previously to placing the cake on the latter, before 
putting it in the oven, which must be of very moderate heat ; parti- 
cular care must be taken to keep it closed as mush as possible while 
the cake is baking, and also not to increase its temperature afterwards : 
this may be easily avoided, if theM)ven be substantially built, f by its 
being properly heated at first, it will then retain for some time an even 
temperature. 

It is impossible to determine on the exact length of time that this, 
or, indeed, any other cake should remain in the oven before it is done ; 
this will mainly depend upon the construction of the oven, and partly 
on the necessity there may be for occasionally opening it during the 
process of baking the cake. 



* The whites must be whisked slowly at first, increasing the motion of the hand 
gradually until it reaches the greatest possible speed : the motion of the whisk must be 
kept up at this rate, until the whites are become sufficiently firm, when they must be 
instantly mixed in with the batter, — otherwise they are liable, by partial decomposition, 
to lose their consistency. 

f Brick ovens are best adapted for baking all kinds of large cakes, pies, <fcc. : the 
reason of this is chiefly owing to their being generally constructed of a superior kind 
of bricks and tiles, requiring, from their compactness, one or two hours to beat them 
thoroughly ; such an oven is, therefore, capable of retaining its heat a much longer time 
than one built of iron; unless, indeed, when the latter happens to be very substantially 
made, which is too seldom the case. Iron-built ovens are also desirable, as well for 
their economy of fuel, ns for the short time in which they may be heated ; and, further, 
on account of the celerity and convenience with which one person may prepare Largo qua&» 
tities of small pastry, and bake it also. This could not so easily be done witli a brick 
oven by only one person ; as, when it happens that a large oven is full of pastry, some 
one must be in constant attendance, in order to watch and regulate the different dh f Tt 01 
of heat or baking which the several articles require, and determine their stay and position 
imthe oven accordingly. All this needs the most vigilant care and attention, in unlet 
to secure success in the baking of delicate pastry; for, however well it may have been 
prepared, if it is not equally well baked, the result will bo unsatisfactory, 



FINGER BISCUITS. 435 

The best way to ascertain whether the cake be done is to run a 
wooden skewer down the centre, and if, when withdrawn, the skewer is 
dry, and free from any portion of the cake in an unbaked state, it will 
be safe to turn it out of the mould ; it should then be of a light color 
and smooth surface. 

Note. — Savoy cakes may also be made by using twelve, sixteen, or 
even twenty eggs to one pound of sugar ; but when a cake of large size 
is required, the proportions must be at the rate of twelve, fourteen, or 
at the utmost sixteen eggs to one pound of sugar ; even in the latter 
case, such batter would not prove successful where four pounds are 
required to fill one mould. Savoy-cake batter made in the proportion 
of sixteen or twenty eggs to one pound of sugar, is best adapted for 
small sponge cakes, finger biscuits, drops, &c. 

1276. FINGERS, OR NAPLES BISCUITS. 

Prepare the batter as directed in the foregoing case ; then fill a 
biscuit-forcer with some of it, and after securely folding down the open 
end, proceed to use the batter in the following manner : — Cut a sheet 
of foolscap paper in two, fold these lengthwise, in order to mark a 
straight line along the centre of the half-sheets; the forcer must then 
be held in the right hand, pressing the batter out by working the thumb 
upon it, while the pointed end must be guided with the left hand. 
In this manner the biscuits must be spread, or rather dropped in 
straight lines, resembling fingers, about three inches long by half an 
inch wide : they should form two rows, being divided by the line in 
the centre of the paper. When the sheet is full, place it upon a large 
sheet of kitchen paper (or demy) containing about one pound of the 
finest sifted sugar, placed in the form of a ridge along the upper part 
of the paper as it lies on the table before you ; the sheet containing 
the biscuits being placed just below the sugar, it will only be necessary 
to lift up the other paper at each corner with the hands, and by 
given it a slight jerk, the sugar will be thrown on to the biscuits : 
then, by taking hold of the paper, holding the biscuits at each upper 
corner, and gently shaking it as it is held up in a perpendicular posi- 
tion, the sugar will be made to slide over the whole at once. By this 
means the biscuits are effectually glazed without waste. The finger 
biscuits must be immediately placetl on a baking-sheet, and put in the 
oven (at very moderate heat) ; about a quarter of an hour will suffice to 
bake them. When done, they should be of a very light yellow color. 

Note. — With the same kind of batter, and by using a biscuit-forcer,* 
the shape of these small biscuits maybe easily varied according to taste 
or fancy. 

1277. PLUM CAKE. 

Ingredients required : — One pound and a half of flour, one pound 
and a half of butter, one pound of fine sugar, one pound of dried 

* These biscuit-forcers are also made of tin, resembling a funnel in shape ; they have a 
bag of wa3h-leather, or canvas cloth, affixed round the upper part, with a string running 
through the top, which, when the bag is filled with batter, is drawn tight, thus effectu- 
ally preventing it from escaping at the upper end, while it is forced out at the point 
below. The use of this utensil, however, is objectionable, from the leather or canvas 
contracting a nauseous odor. In other respects it answers the purpose well enough. 



436 CAKES. 

cherries (slightly chopped), one pound and a half of currants, one 
pound and a half of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, in equal 
quantities, — all these must be cut in small shreds; eight ounces of 
ground or pounded almonds, eight whole eggs, the zest or rind of four 
oranges (rubbed on a piece of sugar and afterwards scraped off), half 
an ounce of ground spices, consisting of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, 
mixed in equal proportions, half a pint of Cognac brandy, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Place the butter in a large white earthen pan, and work it with a 
wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of a creamy substance ; 
next add gradually the flour, sugar, and the eggs, still continuing to 
work the batter the whole of the time. When these have been thor- 
oughly mixed, the cherries, currants, candied-peel, ground almonds, 
brandy, spices, and salt, must also be added gradually, and as soou as 
these ingredients are incorporated with the batter, let the preparation 
be poured into a convenient-sized tin hoop (previously lined with double 
bands of buttered paper), and placed on a stout-made copper baking- 
sheet, with two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, to prevent the 
composition from becoming calcined by the heat of the oven. A mod- 
erate heat will be sufficient to bake this cake, and care must be taken 
not to put any fire under the oven while it is baking, so as to increase 
the heat. 

These cakes, when baked, should be iced over with sugar in the fol- 
lowing manner : — . 

First, mix eight ounces of very fine pounded almonds with double 
that quantity of fine sifted sugar, a little orange-water, and sufficient 
whites of eggs to form the whole into a soft paste ; spread a coating 
of this all over the surface of the cake (after it has become cold) ; and 
when it is hardened by drying, lefthe whole be iced over with the fol- 
lowing preparation : — 

Place about six whites of eggs in a convenient-sized basin, add about 
one pound and a half of the finest sifted loaf sugar, and work these 
well together, with a clean wooden spoon, adding occasionally a little 
lemon-juice, until the whole presents the appearance of a very thick yet 
comparatively liquid shiny substance of a pure white. Use this icing 
to mask the entire surface of the cake, with a coating about a quarter 
of an inch thick ; allow this to become firmly set, by drying, for which 
purpose the cake should be placed in a warm temperature, and kept 
covered with a large sheet of paper, to preserve it from dust, &c. 
When the icing has become perfectly hard, decorate the top and sides 
of the cake with raised ornaments of gum paste, (stamped out from 
board! cut for the purpose) and arranged with taste, either in the form 
of garlands, wreaths, scrolls, &c. ; or else, the cake may be decorated 
with piping, using for that purpose some of the icing worked some- 
what thicker, by adding to it more sugar and a little prepared gum- 
dragon. 

When intended for a wedding cake, the ornaments must be all white, 
and some blossoms or sprigs — or, even wreaths of orange-flowers, 
should also be introduced. 

1278. SCOTCH BREAD. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of candied lemon, orange, and 



BRUSSELS BISCUITS. 437 

citron peel in equal proportions, a gill of Cognac brandy, a very little 
salt, and four ounces of white comfits. 

Put the butter in a basin, work it with a wooden spoon until it 
presents the appearance of thick cream; then add the flour, sugar, 
eggs, and salt, gradually, throwing in a handful of each, and two eggs 
at a time ; when the whole is thoroughly mixed, the candied peel (cut 
in shreds), also the brandy and the rind of two oranges or lemons 
(rubbed on sugar) must next be added. This paste should now be 
poured into tins of an oblong shape, about two inches deep, spread 
with butter, and after the comfits have been strewn over the surface, a 
little fine sugar should be shaken over the top previously to placing 
them in the oven on baking-sheets : they must be baked of a very light 
color. 

Note. — This kind of cake is a general favorite in Scotland, being 
served on most occasions, at breakfast, luncheon, or for casual refresh- 
ment, and also with the dessert. 

1279. PLAIN" SEED CAKE. 

Ingredients : — One quartern of dough, six eggs, eight ounces of 
sugar, eight ounces of butter, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, and a 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Spread the dough out on the pastry-slab, then add the whole of the 
above-named ingredients, work them well together with the hands, so 
as thoroughly to incorporate them with the dough : the eggs should be 
added two at a time. 

When the paste is ready, put it into a plain mould (previously spread 
with butter), and set' it to rise in a warm place. As soon as the 
fermentation has taken place in a satisfactory manner, the cake should 
be immediately put into the oven and baked of a light color. When 
done, serve it cold for luncheon, or otherwise. 

This kind of cake may be varied by introducing raisins, currants, or 
candied orange or lemon peel. 

1280. BRUSSELS BISCUITS, OR RUSKS. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, 
half an ounce of German yeast, four ounces of sugar, four whole eggs, 
and four yolks, a teaspoonful of salt, and a gill of cream. 

Mix the paste in the manner described for the preparation of the 
Compiegne cake, excepting that this must be beaten with the hand on 
the slab until it presents an appearance of elasticity; the sponge 
should then be added, and after the whole has been well worked once 
more, the paste must be placed in long narrow tins, about two inches 
deep, and of about the same width : preparatory to placing the paste 
in the moulds, these should be first well floured inside (to prevent 
the paste from sticking), then the paste rolled out to their own 
length, and about one inch and a half thick, dropped, into them, and 
set in a warm place to rise. When the paste has sufficiently risen, it 
must be gently turned out on a baking-sheet previously spread with 
butter, then egged all over with a soft paste- brush, and baked of a 
bright deep-yellow color. When done, cut them up in slices about 
a quarter of an inch thick, place them flat on a baking-sheet, and put 
them again in the oven to acquire a light-yellow color on both sides. 



438 CAKES. 

These form a superior kind of rusks, and are well adapted for the 
refreshment table at evening parties, or for the breakfast table. 

Note. — Rusks may also be made with &n'oc/*e-paste, pound cake, or 
Savoy cake ; in the latter case a few caraway seeds are sometimes 
added. 

1281. POUND CAKE. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of flour, one pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar, eight eggs, a wiue glass of brandy, a little salt, and 
the rind of two oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. 

Place the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until 
it assumes the appearance of thick cream ; then add the flour, sugar, 
and the eggs gradually ; when the whole is thoroughly incorporated, 
add the brandy, sugar, and salt ; mix well together, and bake the cakes 
in any kind of mould (previously spread with butter), or in a tin hoop 
lined with buttered paper. 

Plumbs, currants, almonds, pistachio-kernels, candied peel, or dried 
cherries may be added. 

1282. FLEMISH GAUFFRES. 

Ingredients required : — Eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, 
six eggs, one ounce of yeast, half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream 
(whipped), the rind of two oranges rubbed on sugar, or a stick of vanilla 
pounded with half an ounce of sugar, and a little salt. 

Put the flour into a gallon-sized basin, spread it out in the centre, 
then add the milk (with the yeast dissolved in it over the fire until the 
whole becomes tepid) ; mix these gradually and thoroughly ; then take 
the spoon out, scrape the sides of the basin with a knife, cover it with 
paper, and set the batter to rise in -the screen. When the sponge has 
increased to twice its quantity, the butter should first be merely melted 
by the fire, and then added with the salt, orange sugar, and two 
whole eggs ; mix these well in with the sponge, then add the whipped 
cream and the yolks of the four eggs, and lastly, after having whipped 
the four whites into a substantial froth, mix them lightly in with the 
batter, and again set it to rise in a warm place, either on the top of the 
screen or on the kitchen table, that it may rise to twice its original 
quantity. 

While the batter is being prepared, let the gauffre -irons be heated 
over the flame of a charcoal fire, and when sufficiently hot to admit of 
their baking the gauffres, run a little clarified butter through them 
with a paste-brush, then fill one side of the irons with some of the 
batter, handling it gently with a spoon ; close the irons, and then turn 
them upside down (that the batter may run into the opposite side), and 
set them over the flame of the charcoal fire, and when done of a bright- 
yellow color on one side, turn the irons over, that the gaujffres may be 
baked also on the other side. They must then be ^urned out of the 
irons, and after the edges have been trimmed with a pair of scissors, 
set them in the oven or before a fire on a baking-sheet Covered with 
paper. Repeat this until the whole of the batter be used up; then, 
shake some orange, lemon, or vanilla sugar over them, pile them up 
neatly on a napkin, ami stive. 

These gaujfres are generally served as a remove in the second 
course. 



GAUFFRES. 439 

1283. FREXCH GAUFFRES. 

Ingredients required : — Eight ounces of flour, four ounces of 
pounded sugar, one pint of whipped cream, eight eggs, one stick of 
vanilla, a little salt, and a glass of caracao. 

Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then add the yolks of 
eggs, the pounded vanilla, and the caracao, and mix these well 
together, gradually adding the whipped cream : just before using the 
batter, add the whipped whites of eggs, and mix them in lightly so us 
to thoroughly incorporate them with it. 

Bake these gauffres in the same way as the foregoing, observing, 
however, that the iron be very carefully heated, and the superfluous 
heat allowed to go off previously to filling them with the batter; as, 
owing to the presence of sugar in their composition, they readily 
acquire color. When done, shake some vanilla-sugar over them, and 
send to table. 

These gauffres may be spread with some kind of preserve ; such as 
apricot, currant-jelly, &c. 

284. ALMOND GAUFFRES. 

Ingredients required : — Eight ounces of Jordan almonds (either 
chopped extremely fine, or else cut into very fine shreds), four ounces 
of pounded sugar, a good table-spoonful of flour, two whole eggs, 
and a very little salt; flavor with orange flower-water, or flowers 
(candied). 

Mix the almonds, sugar, flour, and the flavoring together in a 
basin, with a wooden spoon. Then heat a baking-sheet in the oven, 
rub it all over equally with a piece of white wax, and when this has 
cooled, spread the gauffres very thinly over it with a fork ; put them 
in the oven (at a slow heat), and when they are about half-baked, 
withdraw them, and with a circular tin-cutter about two inches in 
diameter, stamp out as many gauffres as the sheet will admit of, and 
put them back again in the oven that they may acquire a light-fawn 
color ; they should then be instantly taken out and formed in the 
shape of small cornucopias — two or three persons assisting, — so as to 
finish them off before they have time to get cold, as in that case they 
become brittle, and consequently unmanageable. But when it hap- 
pens that one person only is able to attend to them, it will be neces- 
sary to keep the gauffres at the entrance of the oven while they aro 
shaped, and, as they are finished, to place them on another baking- 
sheet. 

These gauffres may also be cut into pieces two inches square, and 
coiled round a small roller in the form of barrels ; the ends of these, 
after being first covered with whipped white of egg mixed with a little 
sugar, should then be dipped in some finely chopped pistachios, and 
placed on a baking-sheet to dry in the skreen. In either case they 
may be filled with whipped cream seasoned with vanilla, orange 
flowers, or maraschino, and some strawberries placed on the top of 
this : they are sometimes also garnished with vanilla cream-ice. 

Note. — This kind of gauffres may be varied in their appearance, by 
strewing some currants, or finely shred or chopped pistachios over the 
surface, previously to their being placed in the oven. 



440 NOUGATS. 

1285. NOUGATS. 

Ingredients required : — Two pounds of Jordan almonds, and one 
pound of sifted sugar. 

Scald the almonds, remove the skins, and after they have been 
washed and dried in- a napkin, split each almond into halves ; then 
place them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a slow oven to acquire 
a very light fawn color. While the almonds are undergoing this 
process in the oven, place the sugar in a convenient-sized sugar-boiler, 
and stir it with a wooden spoon over a slow fire to melt it : as soon as 
it is entirely dissolved, and begins to form small purling bubbles on 
tiie surface, the almonds (which by this time should be ready and quite 
hot) must be instantly thrown in, and very gently mixed with the sugar, 
care being taken not to break or bruise them. The vessel contain- 
ing the nougat should be kept at the entrance of the oven or near the 
stove-fire, so as to prevent its becoming cold before it is used up. The 
mould intended to be used must then be first carefully oiled inside with 
a paste-brush, and set to drain on a plate that the superfluous oil may 
run off. Some of the nougat should now be dropped on a slightly- 
oiled baking-sheet, and spread out with a lemou to the thickness of 
about the eighth of an inch ; and as these pieces are thus spread or 
pressed out, they must be immediately placed in the mould, and 
pressed iuto its form with the assistance of the fingers and a lemon, 
and made to adhere effectually to each other; great celerity must be 
used in this part of the operation, as in the event of the nougat being 
allowed to become brittle by cooling, it would be found impossible to 
build it up, unless by melting it, which is seldom found to succeed. 
When the nougat has become set by cooling, turn it out of the mould, 
and serve it on a napkin or upon an Ornamental stand. 

The foregoing proportions, as well as the directions for splitting the 
almonds, refer only to large nougats ; when it is intended to make a 
smaller one, the almonds should be shred. In all cases, the proportion 
of almonds and sugar should be as two of the former to one of the 
latter. For the purpose of varying their appearance, as soon as the 
nougat is turned out of the mould, some shred pistachio-kernels and 
rough granite-sugar,* should be strewed over its surface. 

1286. PARISIAN NOUGATS. 

Ingredients, required : — Eight ounces of pistachio -kernels, four 
ounces of sugar, and one stick of vanilla. 

Scald the pistachios, remove the skins, absorb all the moisture by 
gently rubbing them in a napkin, then split each kernel into halves, 
and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the screen. Pound the 
vanilla with one ounce of sugar, sift it, and then put this and the four 
ounces of pounded sugar into a small sugar-boiler, together with a 
tea-spoonful of the prepared extract of cochineal : stir these over the 
stove-fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar is entirely melted, and 
as soon as it begins to purl on the surface, immediately add the 
pistachios, and gently mix the whole together, taking care not to 

* Granite-sugar is generally prepared by breaking up some loaf-sugar of the finest 
quality into very small pieces with the end of a rolling-pin ; after sifting away all the 
fine-sugar, the pieces are then passed through a colander with large holes. All that 
pusses through this may be used for the above purpose. But when the granite is 
required finer, it must be riddled through a wire sieve. 



GENOESE CAKES. 441 

bruise the pistachios. The nougat must now be spread out in the form 
of a square on a baking-sheet or marble slab (previously oiled), to the 
thickness of about the eighth part of an inch ; some roughly-broken 
granite sugar should be strewed over the surface, and before it becomes 
cold, the square must be divided into two bands, and then again each 
of these cut in about a dozen small oblong nougats. When about to 
send to table, pile them up in close circular rows on a napkin, and 
serve. 

1287. SMALL NOUGATS, A LA CHANTILLY. 

Ingredients required : — Three-quarters of a pound of ripe filberts, 
and six ounces of pounded sugar. 

Scald the nuts, remove the skin, then split each kernel in four — 
lengthwise, and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven ; mean- 
while, stir the sugar in the boiler over the fire in the usual manner, and 
as soon as it is ready, mix in the above ; have half a dozen small da- 
WoZe-moulds ready, oiled inside, put some of the nougat into each of 
the moulds, and use a small stick made of hard wood (about half an 
inch in diameter) to work the nougat up the sides, or into the flutes of 
the moulds ; pare away all that may rise above the edge of the 
moulds, and then turn them out on to a baking-sheet. About eighteen 
will suffice for a dish. Several persons should assist in moulding these 
nougats, in order to insure their all being of one color; otherwise, 
from being frequently obliged to warm the nougat, it is liable to be- 
come dark. 

When about to send these nougats to table, each should be filled 
with some whipped cream flavored with vanilla or maraschino, and a 
few strawberries (when in season) placed on the top ; dish them up 
neatly in a pyramidal form on a napkin. 

1288. GENOESE CAKES. 

Ingredients required : — Half a pound of flour, half a pound of 
sugar, half a pouud of butter, four eggs, a small glass of brandy, and 
a little salt- 
Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt well together in a basin 
with a wooden spoon ; then add the butter (merely melted by the side 
of the fire), and when this is thoroughly incorporated with the batter, 
pour it into an appropriate-sized baking-sheet, previously spread with 
butter, to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and bake this in 
an oven moderately heated. 

When the Genoese paste is done, it should be turned out upon a 
eheet of paper, and cut or stamped out, either in circular, oblong, oval, 
angular, leaf-like, or any other fancy shapes that taste may suggest. 
These may then be decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as 
for meringues (Xo. 1298), or with icing prepared as directed for wed- 
ding cakes (Xo. 1 277), and ornamented with pistachio-kernels, cur- 
rants, &c. Those cut in the form of leaves, rings, oblongs, &c, may 
be ornamented by forming a design composed of leaves and pearls 
(using for that purpose some m<ringue-])aste in a paper cornet, or 
small biscuit-forcer) ; when the Genoese cakes are ornamented in this 
manner, shake some fine sugar over them with a dredger, and dry them 
either in the screen or at the entrance of the oven ; then, linish decor- 
ating them by placing some neat stripes or dots of any kind of bright 



4-12 CAKES. 

preserve, such as red-currant jelly, apple jelly, apricot jam, green-gage 
jam, &c, between the leaves or pearls of the white of egg decoration. 
By these means a very pretty effect is produced, and as no artificial or 
unwholesome substance is used in the composition, it may be partaken 
of with safety. 

1289. GENOESE CAKES, WITH ALMONDS. 

Prepare these as directed in the foregoing case, and when they are 
nearly done, mask the surface with the white of an egg beat up with 
an ounce of sifted sugar ; then strew four ounces of chopped almonds, 
mixed with two ounces of sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower 
water, all over the coating of egg ; shake a little sugar on the top of 
this, and put the Genoese cakes back again in the oven, to finish bak- 
ing. When done, the coating of almonds should be of a light-fawn 
color ; they must then be carefully removed from the baking-sheet, cut 
or stamped out in shapes, according to fancy, and dished up on a nap- 
kin, in a pyramidal form. 

1290. MADELEINES. 

These are made with the same kind of batter as Genoese cakes, to 
which currants, dried cherries, candied peel, or angelica may be added. 
When the batter is ready, let it be poured into a sufficient number of 
small fluted or plain dariole or madelaine moulds (previously buttered 
inside) ; these must be placed on a baking-sheet spread with some 
charcoal ashes, to the depth of half an inch, and then baked in an oven 
of a moderate heat. When they are done, turn them out of the moulds, 
and dish them up in a pyramidal form. 

These cakes may also be partially. emptied, then filled up with some 
kind of preserve, and the small circular piece, removed previously to 
taking out the crumb, should be replaced. 

1291. SPANISH CAKES, PETITS-CHOUX. 

Ingredients required : — Half a pint of milk or water, four ounces 
of butter, two ounces of sugar, five ounces of flour, three eggs, a few 
drops of essence of orange, a very little salt, and two ounces of chop- 
ped almonds. 

Put the water, butter, sugar, and the salt into a stewpan on the fire, 
and as soon as these begin to boil, withdraw the stewpan from the fire, 
and add the flour ; stir the whole well together with a wooden spoon 
over the stove-fire for about three minutes, by which time the ingre- 
dients should present the appearance of a soft compact paste. The 
essence of orange (or any other kind of flavor) should now be added, 
and also one egg ; incorporate these with the paste, then mix in the 
other two eggs, and if the paste should be stiff, another egg, or a yolk 
only, may be added. This paste should now be laid out on a baking- 
sheet in small round balls, the size of a pigeon's egg, egged over with 
a paste-brush, some chopped almonds (mixed with a spoouful of 
pounded sugar, and a very small quantity of white of egg) strewn 
upon them, with some sifted sugar shaken over, and then baked of a 
very light color. 

These cakes may be served plain, or garnished inside with cream, or 
some kind of preserve. 



MECCA LOAVES. 443 

1292. DUCHESS LOAVES. 

These are made of the same kind of paste as the foregoing ; this 
must be laid out on the pastry-slab, in small pieces about the size of 
a pigeon's egg, then rolled out with a little flour, in the form of a 
finger, and placed in order upon a baking-sheet spread with butter ; 
they should now be egged over, and baked of a bright light color. 
Just before they are quite done, shake some finely-sifted sugar over 
them, set them back again in the oven until the sugar is nearly melted, 
and then pass the red-hot salamander over them, to give them a bright 
glossy appearance ; the loaves must now be immediately withdrawn 
from the oven, and allowed to cool. Just before sending this kind of 
pastry to table, make an incision down the sides, and fill the small 
loaves with apricot-jam, then dish them up in a pyramidal form on a 
napkin, and serve. 

1293. PETTTTS-CHOUX,* WITH CAEAMEL 

Prepare these as the above, except that they must be rolled and 
baked in the form of round balls, which, when done, should be about 
the size of an egg. About two ounces of roughly-chopped pistachios, 
a few cleaned currants, and an equal proportion of loaf sugar, chopped 
small, should be mixed together on a plate ; then boil about four 
ounces of sugar, first dipping each petit-choux slightly in this, then 
gently roll in the prepared pistachios, &c, so as to mask its surface 
with these. When the whole have been thus passed in the sugar- 
caramel, allow them to cool previously to dishing them up. 

1294. PROPITROLLES 

Prepare two dozen petits-choux as directed in the first part of the 
foregoing article ; when they are baked and have become cold, cut a 
circular piece from the top of each, about the size of a shilling ; then 
fill them with some custard, prepared as follows : — Put the yolks of 
four eggs into a small stewpan, with two ounces of pounded sugar, a 
good table-spoonful of flour, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a 
very little salt ; mix these well together with half a pint of cream, 
add a small pat of butter, then stir the whole over the stove-fire, and 
allow it to boil for about ten minutes ; this custard should now be 
passed through a tammy (with pressure) into a basin, and when it has 
become cold, three table-spoonfuls of whipped cream should be added ; 
then serve. 

This custard may also be flavored either with lemon, orange, vanilla, 
orange-flower, or any kind of liqueur ; in which case the chocolate must 
be omitted. 

1295. MECCA LOAVES. 

TriE paste for these is prepared as in the foregoing cases, with the 
addition, however, of a few spoonfuls of whipped cream, which must 
only be incorporated just previously to the loaves being laid out on 
the baking-sheet in the following manner : — 

Take a table-spoon, and fill it half full from the stewpan, containing 
the paste ; then dip the point of a knife in some beaten egg, and use 
it to force the paste from the spoon, gently dropping it on the baking- 

* Pronounced by English cooks, " Petty-shoes." 



444 CAKES. 

•sheet in the form of a gherkin, pointed at the ends, and elevated at 
the centre; fill the baking-sheet with these, placing them about two 
inches distant from each other ; egg them over, shake some fine 
ciiopped loaf sugar (about the size of small hail stones) over them, then 
shake some sifted sugar upon them, and put them in the oven (at very 
moderate heat), to bake of a bright-yellow color. When the Mecca 
loaves are done, allow them to become cold ; then after they have been 
dished up in double circular rows, fill the well or centre with some 
whipped cream seasoned with a little sugar, and a small glass of liqueur, 
and serve. 

1296. queen's cakes. 

First, prepare eight yolks of eggs of nouilles paste (No. 1256), roll 
this out as thin as paper, cut it into bands, and shred these extremely 
fine ; after the nouilles have been allowed to dry upon a sieve for a 
short time, put them into a convenient-sized stewpan, with a pint of 
boiling cream, two pats of butter, six ounces of sugar, and a glass of 
brandy ; set them to boil very gently over a slow stove-fire (covered 
with the lid), and when the cream has been absorbed by the nouilles, 
withdraw them, add the yolks of six eggs, and stir the whole well 
together ; then place this preparation upon two baking-sheets (spread 
with butter), in layers about the eighth part of an inch thick, and bake 
these of a deep-yellow color. When done, spread one of them with 
apricot-jam, cover this over with the other, and then stamp the cakes 
out with a circular tin-cutter, in the form of half-moons ; dish these up 
in double circular rows, so as to form a cone, and serve. 

These cakes may also be garnished with any other kind of preserve, 
or even with pastry-custard (No. 1311) ; they may be cut out, either 
in oblong, circular, oval, leaf-like, o> diamond shapes. In order to 
vary their appearance, their surface should be first lightly spread with 
a little merinyue-'pa.ste (No. 1298), and then strewn with chopped or 
shred pistachios, granite-sugar, or small pink or white comfits. 

1297. ALMOND CAKES. 

Ingredients : — Six ounces of flour, eight ounces of sugar, two 
ounces of ground or finely-powdered almonds (with a few bitter al- 
monds), six yolks of eggs, two whole eggs, four whites whipped, a 
glass of brandy, a little salt, four ounces of chopped almonds mixed 
with two ounces of sugar, and half the white of an egg. 

First, work the butter in a basin with a spoon, until it presents a 
creamy appearance ; next, add the flour, sugar, almonds, brandy, eggs, 
and salt, gradually ; then mix iu the whipped whites of eggs, lightly ; 
pour this paste on a baking-sheet about an inch and a half deep 
(previously buttered), and bake it of a light color. When the cake 
is nearly done, spread the prepared chopped almonds over the top, 
and then put it back again into the oven to finish baking ; when done, 
the almonds should be of a light fawn-color. Turn the cake out 
carefully, and when cold, cut it up into bands about an inch and a 
half wide, then again divide these into diamond-shaped cakes, and dish 
them up pyramidally. 

Some whipped cream may be placed in the centre of the dish, and 
the cakes neatly dished up round it. 



MERINGUES. 445 

Dried cherries, sultana raisins, currants, any kind of candied peel, 
pistachios or Spanish nuts, may be added. The cakes may also be 
flavored with any kind of essence or liqueur. 

MERINGUES. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of sifted sugar, and twelve 
whites of egg. 

Whisk the whites in an egg-bowl until they present the appearance 
of a perfectly white, smooth, substantial froth, resembling snow; then 
substitute a spoon for the whisk, and proceed to mix in the whole of 
the sugar, lightly; carefully avoid working the batter too much, for 
fear of rendering it soft, as in that case it becomes difficult to mould the 
meringues; they can never be so gracefully shaped as when it is kept 
firm. Next, cut some stiff foolscap paper into bands about two inches 
wide ; then take a table-spoon, and gather it nearly full of the batter, 
by working it up at the side of the bowl in the form of an egg, and 
drop this slopingly upon one of the bands of paper, at the same 
time drawing the edge of the spoon sharply round the outer base of 
the meringue, so as to give to it a smooth and rounded appearance, in 
order that it may exactly resemble an egg. Proceed in this manner 
until the band is full, keeping the meringues about two inches and a 
half apart from each other on the paper; as each band is filled, place 
them close beside each other on the slab or table, and when all the 
batter is used up, shake some rather coarse sifted sugar all over them, 
and allow it to remain for about three minutes ; then take hold of one 
of the bands at each end, shake off the loose sugar, and place the band 
of meringues on the board :* and so on with the other bands, which 
when placed carefully on the boards closely side by side, must be put 
in the oven (at very moderate heat) and baked of a li»ht-fawn color. 
When done, each piece of meringue must be carefully removed from 
off the paper, the white part of the inside scooped out with a dessert 
spoon, and then nicely smoothed over ; after this, they must be placed 
iu neat order on a baking-sheet, and put back again in the oven 
to dry, taking particular care that they do uot acquire any more 
color. 

When about to send the meringues to table, whip some double cream, 
season it with a little pouuded sugar, and either a glass of any kind of 
liqueur, a few drops of orange-flower water, or some pounded vanilla ; 
garnish each piece with a spoonful of this cream join two together, 
dish them up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve. 

Note. — Jlcringues may be made of all sizes, and may also be shaped 
in the form of small bunches of grapes : for this purpose it is necessary 
to use a "cornet," or biscuit-forcer, of paper, to mould the berries. 
In order to vary their appearance, previously to shaking the sugar over 
them, some finely-shred pistachios or almonds, rough granite sugar, and 
small currants, may be strewn over them. They may also be garnished 
with preserve, or any kind of iced-creams. 

* These boards must be made of seasoned wood, and should be about an inch thick; 
their size must of course depend upon the dimensions of the oven, allowing sufficient 
room for them to be turned round in it. 



446 biscuits. 

1298a. ITALIAN" BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Six eggs, eight ounces of pounded sugar, five ounces 
of flour, some orange or lemon sugar for flavoring, a pinch of salt, and 
six ounces of chopped almonds. 

First, divide the yolks from the whites of the six eggs, placing the 
whites in an egg-bowl, and the yolks in a basin ; add the sugar, the 
flavoring, and the salt, to the yolks, and with a wooden spoon continue 
working these until they present the appearance of a rather stiff creamy 
batter. Then add half the flour, and when this has been well mixed in, 
let the six whites previously whipped firm, be also lightly mixed in, 
together with the remainder of the flour, taking care to keep the batter 
as firm and light as possible. 

You now fill a biscuit-forcer with some of the batter, and then pro- 
ceed to gently force out the batter on to the baking-sheets (previously 
buttered and floured for the purpose), in round or oval shapes, twice 
the size of a five-shilling piece; and when the whole of the batter is used 
up in this manner, let the chopped almonds be equally strewn over the 
biscuits ; and, after some sugar has been shook over their surface with 
a dredger-box, they must be baked of a very light color, in a rather 
slack oven. 

These cakes are most appropriate for dessert ; but, when made of the 
size of a five-shilling piece, by first spreading any kind of fruit, jam, 
on the under part, and sticking two of them together, they may be 
neatly dished up, for a second-course dish, with some whipped cream 
in the centre. 

12985. VENETIAN BISCUITS. 

First prepare some Genoese as directed at No. 1289, which, when 
cold, must be carefully split in convenient-sized pieces, and after spread- 
ing the insides with apricot-jam, let them be pressed together again. 
You next spread a thin coating of white icing on one square of 
Genoese, and then spread a similar coating of pink icing on the other 
square ; after which, each square must be cut into small oblong shapes 
of equal sizes ; and when the icing has become dry, may be dished up, 
either for a second-course dish, or for dessert. 

1298c. SWEDES. 

Ingredients : — One pound of pounded sugar, twelve ounces of finely- 
shred almonds, four ounces of flour, a stick of vanilla (pounded and 
sifted), and one whole ego;, and the white of another. Let the whole 
of the fore-named ingredients be well mixed together in a basin, and 
then with a tablespoon proceed to mould the preparation into round 
balls the size of a large walnut, which are to be placed on pieces of 
sheet-wafer, previously cut to the size of half-crown pieces ; these 
must now be placed on baking-sheets, and after slightly shaking some 
fine sugar over them, are to be baked of a light color in a slack 
oven. 

These cakes may also be finished in manner following : the prepa- 
ration should be spread about half an inch thick -ipon sheet-wafer, and 
after being baked of a light color, and immediately on its being taken 
from the oven, should be cut into leaf-like shapes, and bent over a roll- 
ing pin, till the pieces become cold and crisp. 



biscuits. 447 

These cakes may be served either for dessert or a second-course 
dish ; in the latter case, some whipped cream must be placed in the 
centre of the dish. 

1298rf. BEOWN BEEAD BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — One pound of pounded sugar, eight ounces of 
brown flour, six ounces of Jordan almonds, ground or pulverized with- 
out being blanched or divested of their brown pellicule, six drops of 
the essence of bitter almonds, and one dozen eggs. 

Break the eggs, placing the yolks in a basin, and the whites in an 
egg-bowl; add the sugar, flour, almonds, and the flavoring to the 
yolks, and work these well together for twenty minutes with a wooden 
spoon ; then mix in the whites previously whisked firm for the purpose, 
and with this batter proceed to fill as many small oblong or square 
paper cases as you may require for the purpose ; which after they 
have been sugared over, should be baked in a very moderate oven. 

These biscuits are adapted for dessert only. 

1298e. GINGEE CAKES. 

Ingredients : — One pound of flour, twelve ounces of fresh butter, 
twelve ounces of pounded sugar, two ounces of ground Jamaica Ginger, 
eight yolks of eggs. 

Work the whole of the above-named ingredients together on a 
pastry-board or slab ; and, after having gathered the paste up into a 
compact mass, separate it into four parts, roll these out to the thick- 
ness of the sixth of an inch, one after the other, and with a tin-cutter, 
either oval, round, &c, &c, cut out as many cakes as the paste will 
produce, and place them on a slightly-buttered baking-sheet, pass a 
paste-brush over them when they are about half done, shake some 
sugar over them, and set them back in the oven to finish baking, of a 
very light color. 

1298/. CHAMPAGNE BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded 
sugar, eight ounces of fresh butter, eight eggs, a quarter of an ounce of 
can-away seeds, a pinch of salt. 

Place the butter in a basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until 
it presents the appearance of thick cream ; you then add the sugar, 
flour, yolks of eggs, the carraway seeds and the salt gradually ; after 
which mix in the eight whites of eggs previously whisked firm for the 
purpose. You now procure a sheet of stout cartridge-paper, which 
must be folded in reversed plaits so that when the paper is opened, 
it may present the appearance of the plaits of a fan, thus forming 
angular trenches about an inch deep. Next fill a biscuit-forcer with 
some of the batter, and proceed to force out some finger-like biscuits 
into the aforesaid paper trenches of about three inches long ; shake 
some sifted sugar over these, and bake them of a light color in a very 
moderate oven. 

These cakes are fit only for dessert. 

1298^. OEANGE BISCUITS. 

These are made with the same kind of batter as described in the 
foregoing article, omitting in this case the carraway seeds, and sub- 



448 biscuits. 

stituting in their place some orange-sugar and candied-orange-peel 
cut into small shreds ; some very small moulds must be slightly 
buttered, filled with some of the batter, some sugar sifted over them, 
and then baked of a very light color in a very moderate oven. 

1298A. PEACH BISCUITS. 

Prepare some butter as directed for fingers (No. 1276), and, with 
this, proceed to form some small round biscuits (using a biscuit-forcer 
for that purpose) on a baking or sheet of paper ; if the former, it must 
be previously buttered and floured, shake some sugar over the biscuits, 
and bake them of a very light color ; and when they are done, and 
removed from the baking-sheet or paper, spread the under parts with 
some kind of preserved fruit (peach marmalade being most appro- 
priate), stick two of these together ; thus forming as nearly as possible 
the shape and size of a peach, these must now be very thinly covered 
all over with some white icing, which, when dry, must be very slightly 
brushed over with a soft pencil-brush dipped in a very small quantity 
of carmine, thereby giving to the cake merely a tinge of color 
similar to that displayed by the ripe peach. These cakes may be 
dished up with whipped cream in the centre of the dish. 

1298*'. APRICOT BISCUITS. 

These are prepared in all respects according to directions given in 
the preceding article, excepting that they should be made smaller, — 
so that they may form a near resemblance to apricots in size and 
form, apricot jam being used to stick them together with ; and when 
so far prepared, are to be dipped in the following preparation : — To 
one pound of fine loaf sugar placed in a sugar-boiler, add half a pint 
of spring-water; boil these oveiN.a brisk stove-fire until the sugar 
while boiling throws up pearl-like bubbles ; the degree of boiling 
required for glazing being ascertained by taking a small quantity of 
the boiling sugar between the fore-finger and thumb (previously 
dipped hi cold water), and if the sugar when pressed with the- fingers 
presents the appearance of strong glue, it should then be removed 
from the fire, and ten minutes afterward, whatever flavoring is 
intended to be used, must be in a liquid state, such as liqueurs, strong 
vailla, orange or lemon syrups or infusions : any one of the foregoing 
must be gradually mixed in with the boiled sugar, quickly stirring 
and working the sugar in the pan the while ; and when thoroughly 
mixed, the cakes should be dipped in — and being afterward placed on 
a wire drainer, placed in the hot closet for a few minutes to set. 

The yellow tinge required for the glaces in this case may be given 
by using either some orange-sugar or a small decoction of saffron ; the 
latter is objectionable, on account of its flavor. 

1298&. CHOCOLATE GLACES. 

The foundation for these may be made either of pound-cake, Ge- 
noese, or song-cake ; the batter for making either of the foregoing may 
be first baked in a baking-sheet, and afterward cut out in shapes and 
sizes to suit taste or convenience; or otherwise may be baked in fl im- 
propriate moulds or cases for the purpose ; they must then be dipped 
in the following preparation : — First, boil the sugar as directed in the 
foregoing article, and when it has reached its proper degvee, add six 



SICILIAN BISCUITS. 449 

ounces of chocolate dissolved with a wine-glassful of water ; work the 
whole well together, and use it while hot ; but, if it should become 
cold, and set before the operation is terminated, the preparation may 
be easily liquified by stirring it over the fire. 

Cakes both large and small may be glaces, or glazed, in this manner 
in almost infinite variety, by using any kind of liqueur, or a very strong 
infusion of tea or coffee instead of the chocolate here recommended. 

1298/. SUISSE LECEELETS. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of honey, four ounces of sweet-almonds, 
blanched and shred, half an ounce of cinuamon-powder, a quarter of au 
ouuce of ground cloves, half a nutmeg grated, six ounces of pounded 
sugar, half an ounce of carbonate of potash, six ounces of candied 
orange, lemon and citron, a wine-glassful of Kirschen-wasser, ditto of 
orange-flower-water, and the grated rind of two lemons, one pound of 
flour, including the quantity required to manipulate the paste on the 
slab. 

Put the honey in a copper egg-bowl on the stove-fire, and when it is 
melted, skim off the froth, and immediately add the shred almonds, the 
ground spices, and the grated lemon-peel ; mix these well together 
with a wooden spoon, and then add the sugar, the Kirschen-wassei', 
the orange-flower-water, and the candied peels ready shred for the 
purpose ; and, after having mixed in these, then add the carbonate of 
potash dissolved in a table-spoonful of water, and also fourteen ounces 
of flour, leaving the remainder for manipulating the paste on the slab). 
This paste must now be gently stirred over the fire for three or four 
minutes longer, and then placed in a covered pan in a cool place for 
three days previously to its being used ; the further process must be 
directed as follows : — 

Cut the Lecrelet-p&ste into four equal parts ; and, after having first 
strewn the slab with some of the flour reserved for the purpose, roll out 
each of the four pieces to about the eighth part of an inch thick ; these 
squares must now be placed on baking-sheets, previously buttered and 
floured for the purpose ; and, after being deeply marked out or cut 
into small oblong-squares, must be rubbed over with a paste-brush 
dipped in water to remove the flour from the surface. Next, bake tho 
L'/'-relets in a rather slack oven of a light color, and when they are 
about three parts done, let them be nearly cut through into shape, and 
immediately they have been brushed over with some thin white icing, 
replace them in the oven to finish being baked. When the Lccrelets 
have been withdrawn from the oven a sufficient time to have become 
cold,' break them up as marked out, and put them away in a tin box in 
a dry place. 

These cakes are well adapted for dessert, luncheon, or as a pleasant 
adjunct for the supper-tray. 

1298/7?. SICILIAN BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Four eggs, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, ten 
ounces of flour, a stick of vanilla pounded. 

Whisk the eggs, the sugar, and the vanilla together in a copper egg- 
bowl, over a very slow stove-fire until the batter begins to feel warm ; 
it must then be removed from off the fire, and whisked briskly until the 
28 



450 CAKES. 



batter becomes cold ; the flour must now be lightly added in, and when 
thoroughly mixed, must be shaped upon a prepared baking-sheets with 
the aid of a biscuit-forcer, in fingers, ovals or rounds ; sugared over 
similarly to finger or Naples biscuits, and baked in a slack oven. 

1298ft. RUSSIAN" BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of pounded sugar, ten eggs, six ounces 
of flour, four ounces of almonds pounded and dried over the fire in a 
sugar-boiler, quarter of an ounce of aniseed. 

Let the yolks of the eggs and the sugar be whisked together in an 
egg-bowl over a slow-fire, until they present the appearance of a thick 
batter ; the whites, previously whisked firm, must now be lightly added, 
as also the flour, pounded almonds, and the aniseed. The batter thus 
produced, may either be baked in small moulds, or as is most appro- 
priate for these biscuits, they should be baked in long tin moulds, or, 
failing these, in stout paper cases, ten inches long by three inches deep, 
and two and a half inches wide. When the last named are baked, and 
have been allowed to become thoroughly cold, cut them into rather 
thin slices, which, being placed on baking-sheets, should be again baked 
of a very light color on both sides. 

1298o. ALBERT BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Ten ounces of pounded sugar, eight ounces of finely- 
chopped almonds, six ounces of flour, twelve yolks and fourteen whites 
of eggs, two ounces of candied orange-peel shred fine, a tea-spoonful 
of cinnamon-powder, half that quantity of ground cloves, and a little 
grated lemon-rind. 

Work the sugar and the almonds with the yolks and two whites of 
eggs, for twenty minutes, then incorporate the remaining twelve whites 
firmly whisked together with the flour, candied peel, and spices. Next, 
pour the batter into a convenient-sized paper case, and bake it in a 
moderate oven ; and, when done and sufficiently cold, let it be cut up 
into thin slices for dishing up. 

This preparation may also be baked in small moulds, or forced out 
upon paper or baking-sheets previously buttered and floured for the 
purpose. 

- 1298^. VICTORIA BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — One pound of pounded sugar, twelve ounces of dried 
flour, six ounces of pounded or ground bitter almonds, six ounces of 
fresh butter, a wine-glassful of Kirschen-wasser, and the rind of two 
lemons grated. 

First, let the butter be worked up in a basin with a wooden spoon, 
until it assumes a creamy appearance ; then add the remainder of the 
ingredients, finishing with the Kirschen-wassei' ; and when the batter 
is ready, pour it into small moulds, ready buttered and interiorly coated 
with potato flour. When these cakes or biscuits are baked of a very 
light color, first, spread the surface with orange marmalade, and over 
this glaze them according to directions given for finishing Apricot 
biscuits. 



451 



SMALL PASTRY IN GENERAL, 



COMPRISING 



Fanchonnettes. 

Cheesecakes. 

MirliUmt. 

Pithiviers Cakes. 

D'Artois Cake. 

German Tourte of Apricots. 

Parisian Turnover of Apples. 

Darioles. 

Condi Cakes. 

Royals. 

D'Artois of Apricots. 

Apricot Nougats. 

Pastry Custard, or Cream. 

Talmouies. 

Talmouseii, with Cheese. 

Florentines. . 

Cupid's or Lore's Wells. 



Puff-paste Walnuts. 

Bread-and-Butter Pastry. 

Puff-paste Rings, or Wreaths. 

Polish Cakes. 

Harry the VIIL's Shoestrings. 

Puff-paste Plaits. 

Apple Tartlets. 

Cherry Tartlets. 

Puff-paste Tartlets. 

Mosaic Tartlets. 

Parisian Loaves. 

Marygolds. 

Filbert-cream Tartlets. 

Coventry Tartlets. 

Apple Tart, with Quince. 

Pear Tart. 

Fruit Tarts in general. 



1299. FANCHONNETTES. 

Prepare some pastry custard in the manner directed for the profi- 
trolles (No. 1294), season it either with two ounces of grated chocolate, 
an infusion of coffee, a glass of liqueur, or a few drops of some kind of 
essence, such as orange-flower, vanilla, bitter almonds, or lemon ; 
when this is ready, fill two dozen plain-lined tartlets with it ; bake 
these of a light color, and when done, take them out of the moulds, 
and lay them flat upon the marble slab to cool. Meanwhile, whip 
three whites of eggs quite firm, then mix in three ounces of pounded 
sugar, and use some of this to mask the fanchonnettes over with, giving 
to them a flat smooth surface ; next, with a cornet filled with some of 
the whites of egg, form a star, or some other design on the top ; when 
they are all done, shake some sifted sugar over them, put them on a 
baking-sheet, and bake them of a very light-fawn color. When they 
are baked, previously to dishing them up, ornament them, by placing 
some neat strips of bright currant or apple-jelly in between the folds 
of the decoration. 

These fanchonnettes may be infinitely varied, by altering their form 
and design, when masking them with the whipped whites of eggs, 
according to taste and fancy. Strips of pistachios, almonds, or cur- 
rants may also be used for this purpose. 

1300. CHEESECAKES. 

Ingredients required : — Eight ounces of pressed curd, two ounces 
of ratafias, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, six yolks of eggs, 
some grated nutmeg, a little salt, the rind of two oranges or lemons, 
rubbed on sugar, and afterward scraped off. 

Press the curd in a napkin to absorb the superfluous moisture, then 
pound it thoroughly in a mortar, and mix in the above-named ingre- 
dients ; when the whole is incorporated together into a kind of soft 
paste, take this up in a basin. Next, line two dozeu or more tartlet- 



452 SMALL PASTRY. 

pans with some well-worked trimmings of puff-paste, garnish these 
with the cheese-custard, place a strip of candied peel on the top of each, 
put them on a baking-sheet, and then set them in the oven (at mode- 
rate heat), to be baked of a very light-brown color ; when done, shake 
a little sifted sugar over them, and serve them quite hot. 

Currants, dried cherries, sultanas or citron, may be used instead of 
the candied peel. 

1301. MIRLITOSTS. 

Ingredients required : — Puff-paste, trimmings, three whole eggs, 
three ounces of sugar, one ounce of ratifias, half an ounce of candied 
orange-flowers, one ounce of butter, and a little salt. 

PutHhe above into a basin having a spout : the ratafias and orange- 
flowers must be bruised, and the butter merely melted ; work the 
whole well together with a wooden spoon, until the batter presents 
the appearance of a rich creamy-looking-substance, it must then be 
instantly poured into two dozen small deep tartlets, lined with puff- 
paste trimmings ; shake a rather thick coating of sifted sugar over 
the mirlitons, and when it has nearly melted on their surface, put 
them in the oven (at very moderate heat), and bake them of a light- 
fawn color. When the mirlitons are done, the centre should rise out 
from the tartlet to the height of about half an inch, resembling the 
crown of a boy's cap. 

These cakes may also be flavored with chocolate, grated previously 
to its being added to the preparation ; or with pistachios or almonds, 
both of these must be pounded first : they may also be flavored with 
different essences. Previously to pouring the batter into the tartlets 
a spoonful of apricot or pine-apple-jam may be placed in them. 

1302. PITHIVIERS CAKES. 

Ingredients required : — Half a pound of puff-paste, eight ounces 
of almonds or nuts, six ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, two 
ounces of ratafias, a spoonful of orange-flower-water, the yolks of four 
eg<rs, and a very little salt. 

First, pound the almonds with a little white of egg, until they be- 
come pulverized ; then add the remainder of the ingredients, and 
pound the whole well together until thoroughly incorporated, when it 
should present the appearance of a rather soft creamy paste; take 
this up in a basin. 

While the above preparation is going on, half a pound of puff-paste 
should be made, to which seven turns or foldings must be given; 
take two-thirds of this, and knead, or rather fold it, by twisting over 
the corners, so as to form it into a cushion ; knead the other piece in 
a similar manner, and then roll them both out in a circular or oval 
form, to the size of a small dish or dessert plate; place the thinnest 
piece on a baking-sheet, wet round the edges with a paste-brush 
dipped in water, fill the whole of the centre with a layer of Pithiuiers 
cream, about an inch thick, and place the other piece of puff-paste 
over the top of this ; press it all round the edge, by bearing on it with 
the thumb of the right hand ; then trim the edges round neatly (in 
the manner practised to cut a col-au-inil), and with the point of a 
small knife, handled lightly and freely, sketch or mark out some neat 
or elegant design, such as a lyre, a vase of flowers, a helmet with flow- 



PARISIAN TURNOVERS OF APPLES. 453 

tag mane or feathers, a wreath, or a star, <fec. Shake some finely-sifted 
sugar over the cake, and bake it of the lightest possible color ; indeed, 
it should be free from any color, the characteristic appearance of 
this kind of pastry being its whiteness. Pithiviers cake should be 
eaten cold. 

These cakes may also be made in tartlet moulds, thinly lined with 
puff-paste, and after being neatly filled with the Pithiviers cream (the 
edges being previously we.tted round), the mould must be covered in 
with circular pieces of puff-paste, stamped out with a cutter to fit them ; 
then fastened down by pressing the two pieces of paste together with 
the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, and finished aud baked as 
directed in the foregoing case. 

1303. d'artois cake. 

Puff-paste or large D'Artois cakes, prepared as directed in the 
foregoing cases, may be garnished either with apple marmalade, mince- 
meat, or any kind of preserve ; in this case, however, when the cake 
lias been covered in with the puff-paste, previously to marking out the 
design on its surface, it must be egged over with a paste-brush ; when 
it has been baked of a bright-yellow color, shake some finely-sifted 
sugar over it, after which put it back again in the oven for a minute or 
two, and then pass the red-hot salamander over it to give it a bright 
glossy appearance. The same direction applies to the smaller D'Artois 
cakes. 

1304. GERMAN TOURTE OF APRICOTS. 

Cut a dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and put them into a small 
sugar-boiler or stewpan, with the kernels extracted from the stones, 
four ounces of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of water; stir this over 
the stove-fire until the fruit is dissolved into a jam, and then withdraw 
the stewpan from the fire. 

Roll out some trimmings of puff-paste, or else about half a pound of 
short paste, to the diameter of about eight inches, place this on a cir- 
cular baking-sheet, and with the forefinger and thumb of the right 
hand, twist the paste round the edges so as to raise it in imitation of 
cording ; then cut up a dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and place 
these in close circular rows on the paste, shake souie sifted sugar 
(mixed with some rind of lemon) over the apricots, and then bake the 
tourte (at moderate heat) ; when it is done, pour the marmalade of 
apricots over the others, shake some sifted sugar mixed with a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon-powder over the surface, dish the tourte on a 
napkin, and serve it either hot or cold. 

This kind of tourte may be made of every kind of fruit, the process 
in each case being similar to the above — consisting in baking one-half 
of the fruit on the paste, while the remainder is added after the tourte 
is baked, being first boiled down into a kind of jam for that purpose. 
In all cases, some cinnamon-sugar must be strewn over the surface. 

1305. PARISIAN TURNOVER OF APPLES. 

Peel about a dozen apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the 
cores ; after which, put them into a stewpan with eight ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of butter, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of 
sugar, aud two table-spoonfuls of water ; toss the apples over a slow 



454 SMALL PASTRY. 

fire until they are about half done, and then remove them from the 
fire. "While the apples are being prepared, roll out a piece of short 
paste, in a circular form, the eighth part of an inch thick, and about 
the size of a dinner-plate ; wet this round the edge, then fasten a 
rolled cord of paste, the thickness of a small finger, within an inch of 
the edge, and pile the prepared apples up in the centre in the form of 
a dome ; then, spread some apricot marmalade over the surface, and 
cover the whole in with another circular piece of puff-paste ; press 
them together round the edges, wet the extremities, then, with the 
forefinger and thumb of the right hand, twist or fold the edges over 
in the form of a cord ; let the turnover now be egged all over with a 
soft paste-brush dipped in some beaten white of egg, then strew some 
rough granite-sugar over 1 the entire surface, and bake it of a light 
color. 

These turnovers may also be made with all kinds of plums ; the 
only difference iti their mode of preparation being, that they need uot 
undergo any dressing previously to placing them in the paste, except 
that the stones should be removed : the plums, peaches, or apricots 
must be piled up in several rows forming a dome, with some pounded 
sugar between each layer, and some of the same kind of fruit the 
turnover is made of should be first boiled down to a jam, for the pur- 
pose of masking the fruit with, preparatory to its being covered in. 

1306. DARIOLES. 

Ingredients : — One ounce of flour, two ounces of pounded sugar, 
one ouuce of ratafias, three gills of cream, one whole egg and six yolks, 
one ounce of candied orange-flowers, a small pat of butter, a very little 
salt, half a pound of trimmings of puff-paste. 

Place the flour, sugar, the brn-ised ratafias, and the eggs in a 
spouted basin, work the whole well together, and then add the cream) 
a very little salt, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower-water, and mix 
these in with the batter. Line a dozen dariolc-moulds, with some 
trimmings of puff-paste, place these on a baking-sheet, put a very small 
bit of butter at the bottom of each dariole, and then, after stirring the 
batter well together, pour it into the moulds ; strew the candied 
orange-flowers on the top of each, and set them in the oven (at mode- 
rate heat) to bake. When done, the darioles should be slightly raised 
in the centre, and of a light color ; take them out of the moulds with- 
out breaking them, shake some finely-sifted sugar over them, and serve 
them hot. 

Darioles may also be flavored with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or 
chocolate. 

1307. CONDE CAKES. 

Chop six ounces of Jordan almonds as fine as possible, mix them 
with four ounces of sifted sugar, some grated rind of lemon, and the 
white of an egg : the whole should present the appearance of a rather 
firm paste. Next, make half a pound of puff-paste, to which give eight 
turns or foldings, and roll this out to the thickness of the eighth part 
of an inch ; then, with a tin cutter, of an oval, circular, crescent, dia- 
mond, or any other fancy shape, stamp out about eighteen co*d6» ami 
place them on a baking-sheet previously wetted over with a paste- 
brush to receive them ; spread a coating of the prepared chopped 



PASTRY CUSTARD. 455 

almonds on the surface of each, shake some fine sugar over them with 
the dredger, and bake them of a very light-fawn color. 

1308. ROYALS. 

Mix the whites of two eggs with as much finely-sifted sugar as 
they will absorb, so as to form a kind of soft paste ; this must be 
effected without working it more than is necessary to mix the ingre- 
dients together : a few drops of any kind of essence may be added to 
flavor the cakes. 

Make half a pound of puff-paste, and to finish these cakes, proceed 
in o.ll respects as directed in the foregoing article. 

1309. d'artois of apricot. 

Make one pound of puff-paste, and give it seven turns or foldings ; 
then, take one-third part of it, and after kneading this well together, 
roll it out to the size of a square baking-sheet, measuring about four- 
teen inches by twelve, and lay the paste upon it ; next spread a rather 
thick layer of apricot-jam over the paste to within about an inch o* 
the edges ; then, roll out the remainder of the puff-paste to the size of 
the baking-sheet, and place it neatly over the surface of the apricot; 
fasten it round by pressing upon the edges with the thumb, and trim 
the edges by cutting away the superfluous paste from the sides with a 
knife. The D'Artois must now be marked out in small oblong shapes 
with the back part of a knife, and after the whole surface has been 
egged over, score them over neatly, forming a kind of feather pattern 
on each cake. Bake them of a bright light-brown color, and when 
they are done, shake some finely-sifted sugar over them out of the 
dredger, put them back again into the oven for a minute or two, to 
melt the sugar, and then pass the red-hot salamander over them to 
give to the pastry a bright glossy appearance. When the D'Artois 
have become sufficiently cold, cut them up, and serve them dished up 
in several circular rows piled on a napkin. 

Note. — This kind of pastry may also be garnished with Pithiuiers- 
cream, pastry-custard, apple marmalade, or any other kind of preserve. 

1310. APRICOT NOUGATS.. 
Roll out some trimmings of puff-paste to the thickness of the 
eighth of an inch ; lay this all over the surface of a baking-sheet, 
spread it with a rather thick layer of apricot-jam, and then strew some 
shred pistachio kernels or Jordan almonds over this, shake some finely- 
sifted sugar over all, and bake them in a very moderately-heated oven. 
•When done, allow the pastry to cool, and then use any kind of fancy 
tin-cutter to stamp them out. 

1311. PASTRY CUSTARD, OR CREAM. 

Ingredients : — Four ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, six 
yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, one pint of cream or milk, one 
ounce of ratafias, a spoonful of orange-flower-water, and a very little 
salt. 

Mix the flour, sugar, and svlt with two whole eggs, in a stewpan with a 
wooden spoon ; then add the cream and the butter, and stir the whole 
over the stove-fire until it boils ; it must then be well worked together, 



4::")6 small pastry. 

so as to make it smooth. Withdraw the spoon, and after putting the 
lid on the stewpan, place the cream in the oven, or on a slow stove- 
fire partially smothered with ashes, that it may continue to simmer 
very gently for about twenty minutes : the cream must then be put 
out into a basin, and the bruised ratafias, the yolks of eggs, and the 
orange-flower-water must be added ; after which put four ounces of 
butter into a small stewpan on the fire, and as soon as it begins to 
fritter, and has acquired a light-brown color (which gives to it the 
sweet flavor of nuts), add this also to the cream, aud let the whole 
be well mixed. 

Use this cream to garnish various kinds of pastry, according to di- 
rections giveu in the several articles for which it is intended. 

1312. TALMOUSBS 

Ingredients required : Half a pint of milk, four ounces of flour, 
two ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, six ounces of cream-curd, 
the rind of an orange rubbed on sugar, a very little salt, and half a 
pound of puff-paste. 

Put the milk, butter, sugar, and salt, into a stewpan on a stove-fire, 
and as soon as these begin to simmer, fill in the flour by stirring the 
whole with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes over the fire ; 
then add the curd (from which all the superfluous moisture must be 
extracted by pressing it in a napkin), and work in the eggs one after 
the other, remembering that this paste must be kept to about the same 
substance as for petite-choux. 

Make half a pound of puff-paste, and give it nine turns ; roll this 
out to the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp out about two dozen 
circular pieces with a tin-cutter >abont two inches in diameter, and 
place them in neat order on a baking-sheet about an inch apart from 
each other ; then place a good tea-spoonful of the preparation de- 
scribed above, in the centre of each, wet these round the edges, and 
then turn up the sides so as to form each of them in the shape of a 
three-cornered hat ; egg them over with a paste-brush, bake them of 
a light-brown color, and when they are withdrawn from the oven, 
shake some fiue sugar over them. These cakes may be served either 
hot or cold. 

1313. TALMOUSES WITH CHEESE. 

These are prepared just as the foregoing, except that the sugar aud 
rind of orange must be omitted, substituting in their stead four ounces 
of scraped Brie, or Neuchatel cheese : when these cannot be procured, 
Gruyere or Parmesan cheese may be used for the purpose. 

131-4. FLORENTINES. 

Boll out about half a pound of trimmings of puff-paste to the 
thickness of the eighth of an inch, and lay this on the entire surface 
of a rather large-sized baking-sheet ; spread a thick layer of green- 
gage-jam over the paste, and then bake it in an oven of moderate 
heat ; when done, let it be withdrawn and allowed partially to cool. 
Then spread it with a coating of whipped whites of efr<r mixed witli 
sugar, about half an inch in thickness, and strew some shred pistachio 
kernels all over the surface ; shake some finely-sifted sugar over the 



BREAD-AND-BUTTER PASTRY. 



457 



top, and finish baking the Florentines of a very light color, taking 
care that the meringue -paste is allowed sufficient time to become per- 
fectly crisp. A few minutes after the Florentines are taken out of the 
oven, they must be stamped out with a tin-cutter or else cut out with a 
kuife, in oblong or diamond-shapes. 

1815. cupid's, or love's wells. 

Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, then roll it out to 
the thickness of the sixth part of an inch ; stamp out about eighteen 
circular pieces from this with a fluted tin-cutter, one inch and a half in 
diameter, and place these in rows on a baking-sheet previously wetted 
to receive them. Then, stamp out as many more pieces with a smaller 
fluted cutter only one inch in diameter, and after stamping out the cen- 
tre of these, wet the surface of the others over with a paste-brush, and 
lay one of the smaller ones on each of the others ; press them down 
with the fingers, egg over the tops, and bake them of a bright light 
color ; when they are nearly done, shake some sugar over them with 
the dredger, put them back again into the oven for a minute or two, 
and then pass the red-hot salamander over them to give them a bright 
glossy appearance. Previously to serving these "love's wells," fill them 
either with preserved cherries, greengage-jam, or currant-jelly. 

1316. PUFF-PASTE WALNUTS. 

Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll it out to the 
thickness of the sixth part of an inch ; then stamp out twenty circular 
pieces with a fluted cutter, about an inch and a half in diameter, and 
after wetting each of these with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold 
them up, at the same time pressing the two parts of the paste slightly, 
so as to cause them to adhere closely together ; they must then be 
placed on baking-sheet in rows, egged over, and baked of a bright light 
color. Just before they are done, some fine sugar should be shaken 
over them with a dredger, and they must then be put back again into 
the oven for a little while to melt the sugar ; pass the red-hot salaman- 
der over, and withdraw them. Previously to serving this kind of pas- 
try, a broad strip of red currant or apple-jelly should be placed across 
the centre. 

1317. BREAD-AND-BUTTER PASTRY. 

Give six turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll it out to the 
thickness of a quarter of an inch ; cut this into bands about three 
inches wide, then cut these again into strips rather better than a quar- 
ter of an inch wide, and place them (on the cut side) on a baking-sheet 
in rows, about two inches apart, so as to allow them sufficient room to 
spread out. Bake these strips of paste in a rather sharp oven, and just 
before they are done, glaze them ; that is, shake some fine sugar over, 
and then salamander them. About two dozen of these are required for 
a dish : they must be spread with some kind of preserve, and stuck to- 
gether in pairs, to imitate bread-and-butter; dish them up on a napkin, 
piled up in several circular rows, in a pyramidal form. 

This kind of pastry may also be dished up with some stiffly-whipped 
cream, seasoned with a glass of liqueur, in the centre. 



458 SMALL PASTRY. 

1318. PUFF-PASTE RIXGS, OR WREATHS. 

Gtve eight turns to half a pound of puff-paste, and roll this out to 
the sixth part of an inch in thickness ; then stamp out twenty circular 
pieces with a fluted tin-cutter about one inch and three quarters in di- 
ameter, and stamp out the centre of these with a plain circular cutter 
about three quarters of an inch in diameter, then place the rings on a 
wetted baking-sheet, shake some fine sugar over them, and bake them 
of a very light color (at very moderate heat). When they are done, 
decorate them with some whipped white of egg and sugar, over which 
strew some coarse sugar ; put them to dry in the screen, and then finish 
decorating them by placing or inserting some strips of currant or apple 
jelly in between the folds or dots of the decoration. 

Note. — Puff-paste turned or folded eight times, then rolled out to 
the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and stamped ont with ap- 
propriate fancy-shaped tin cutters — either iu the form of crescents, 
leaves, trefoil or shamrock, stars, &c, and after being baked as di- 
rected in the foregoing case, may also be decorated in the same man- 
ner ; a cornet of paper should be used for this purpose. 

1319. POLISH CAKES. 

Give seven turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out as in the 
foregoing cases, and then cut it up into square pieces measuring rather 
better than two inches each way ; wet these in the centre, and then 
fold down the corners, so as to make them all meet in the middle of the 
piece of paste ; place a dot of paste in the centre of each, pressing it 
down with the end of the finger, egg them over, and bake them in a 
rather sharp oven, of a fine bright light color, and just before they art- 
done, shake some finely -sifted sugar over them ; put them back again 
in the oven to melt the sugar, and then pass the red-hot salamander 
over them to give them a glossy appearance. Decorate this kind of 
pastry with bright red-currant or apple-jelly. 

1320. HARRY THE VHI.'S SHOESTRINGS. 

This kind of pastry is prepared in the first instance in exactly the 
same manner as the foregoing, as far as folding the corners down. 
Then cut out a small angle from each of the parts that have been 
folded down, which will then present the appearance of four bows 
joined together ; place a small ring of puff-paste in the centre of each, 
which must be fastened on by first wetting the part ; they should be 
then egged over and baked of a bright light color, and afterward 
glazed as directed in the foregoing cases. Previously to dishing them 
up, fill a cornet of paper with some firm red-currant jelly, and use this 
to draw rather bold lines all round the angular parts of the bows, and 
also round the ring that has been placed in the centre ; then, with an- 
other paper cornet filled with bright apricot or green-gage-jam, fill in 
the centre of the bows ; this kind of decoration produces a very bril- 
liant effect. 

1321. PUFF-PASTE PLAITS. 

Give nine turns to half a pound of puff-paste, roll it out to the 
thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and then cut this into bands 
about five inches iu width, and divide these iuto narrow strips a 






APPLE AND CHERRY TARTLETS. 4d9 

quarter of an inch wide. Take four of these strips, and after fastening 
them together at one end with a little egg or water, plait them neatly 
but rather loosely together, and when finished, fasten the ends : as each 
plait is completed, place it on a baking-sheet, and when they are all 
ready, egg them over, and bake them of a light color, and when done, 
let them be glazed as usual. Just before sending these cakes to table, 
decorate them by placing in the small cavities some dots of bright 
currant or apple-jelly, and some greengage-jam. 

1322. APPLE TARTLETS. 

Make half a pound of tart-paste (No. 1255), roll it out rather thin ; 
then stamp out twenty circular flats, with a fluted cutter suited to the 
size of the tartlets, and use them to Hue the moulds ; fill each tartlet 
with a spoonful of apple-marmalade, cover them in with a mosaic* of 
paste, egg them over, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake them of 
a light color ; when done, shake some fine sugar over them, and use the 
red-hot salamander, to give them a glossy appearance. 

1323. APPLE TARTLETS, ANOTHER METHOD. 

Line the tartlet-pans as above, then garnish them with halves of 
small apples, previously turned and divested of the cores, and after- 
wards parboiled in a little syrup in which the juice of a lemon has been 
squeezed ; bake the tartlets, and when they are done, dilute some 
apricot-jam with a little of the syrup ; use this to mask the apples in 
the tartlets, and then place a preserved cherry on the centre of each. 

1324. CHERRY TARTLETS. 

Take the stones out of two pounds of Kentish cherries, put these 
into a small sugar-boiler with three quarters of a pound of pounded 
sugar, toss them in this, then set them on the stove-fire and allow them 
to boil for about five minutes : the cherries must then be strained on a 
sieve, and the syrup reduced to about one-third part of its quantity, 
then added to the cherries, and kept in a small basin. 

Line two. dozen small tartlet-pans with short paste or tart-paste (the 
flats being stamped out with a fluted cutter) ; knead as many small 
pieces of paste as there are tartlets, and after dipping them in flour, 
press one of them into each of the tartlets, place them on a baking- 
sheet, and put them in the oven (moderately heated) to be baked of a 
light color ; when they are nearly done, withdraw them, and take out 
the pieces of paste, shake some fine sugar over them, and then glaze 
them with the red-hot salamander. Just before serving the tartlets, fill 
them with the cherries. 

Xote.' — Raspberries, currants, gooseberries, and all kinds of plums, 
may be prepared for tartlets, by gently boiling them for a few minutes 
in about a pint of syrup ; the fruit should then be drained on a sieve, 
and the syrup reduced to one-third of its original quantity, and kept 

* Mosaic-boards, for tartlets, may be had of all sizes and patterns at any turner's 
shop. To cut out impressions from these, it is necessary to use small circular flats of 
raised pie-paste, which must be plnced on the board, and pressed into the design, by 
rolling it with a paste-pin ; the superfluous paste must then be cut or shaved away, and 
the mosaic of paste that remains in the design shaken out of the board. 



460 SMALL PASTRY. 

with the fruit in a small basin, to fill the tartlets with as in the fore- 
going cases. 

1325. PUFF-PASTE TARTLETS. 

Give eight turns to half a pouud of puff-paste (No. 1261), roll it out 
to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and then with a circular* 
tin-cutter, about one iuch and three quarters in diameter, stamp out 
twenty flats ; again use a small cutter, measuring one inch in diameter, 
to stamp out the centre of these : next, gather up the trimmings, knead 
them together, and roll them out to the eighth part of an inch in thick- 
ness, and stamp out as many flats as there are rings ; place them on 
a wetted baking-sheet, moisten the edges with a soft brush dipped in 
water, stick the rings of paste on these, shake some sugar over them 
with the dredger, and bake them of a very light color (at very moderate 
heat). When the tartlets are done, mask the bands or rings with a 
little meringue-^aste, dip them either in some chopped or very finely- 
shred pistachios or almonds, and place them in the screen to dry. 
Previously to serving these tartlets, they may be filled, either with 
cherries, currants, plums, &c, prepared as directed above, or else with 
any kind of preserve. 

1326. MOSAIC TARTLETS. 

Prepare two dozen puff-paste tartlets as directed above, and fill 
each of them with a spoonful of apricot or greengage-jam ; wet round 
the edges, and place a mosaic of paste on the top of each, egg these 
over slightly, and bake them of a light color ; when they are done, 
shake some fine sugar over them, and glaze them with the red-hot 
salamander. 

1327. PARISJAN LOAVES. 

Prepare some small slender finger-biscuits, spread them with apricot 
or greengage-jam, and stick two of these together; then, hold one at 
a time on a fork, mask them over slightly with some meringue-paste, 
aud with a paper cornet filled with some of the same, draw parallel 
lines across the cakes in a slanting direction ; when they are all com- 
pleted, shake some sugar over them, and put them in the oven to be 
baked, or rather dried, of a very light-fawn color. When done, insert 
some narrow strips of bright currant-jelly, greengage-jam, and apple- 
jelly between the bars of the decoration. 

1328. MARYGOLDS. 

Give eight turns to half a pound of puff- paste, roll it out to the 
thickness of the sixth part of an inch, stamp out twenty flats with 
a circular fluted tin-cutter, about one inch and three quarters in 
diameter, and place these on a wetted baking-sheet ; roll out the 
trimmings rather thin, and with two smaller cutters, stamp out as 
many rings of the size of a shilling as there are cakes, and place one 
of these on the centre of each of the marygolds, previously wetted all 
over the surface. Then, place some almonds split into four strips 
lengthwise, closely round the rings, in a somewhat slanting direction ; 
these must be slightly pressed into the paste to make them hold on, 
and should be arranged so as to give to the cake, as much as possible, 
the appearance of the flower they are intended to resemble. When 
they are all completed, shake some sugar over them with the dredger, 



APPLE TART WITH QUINCE. 461 

and bake them of a light color. When done, insert some very narrow 
strips of bright firm red-currant or apple-jelly between each piece of 
almond, and place a piece of apricot or greengage-jam in the ring. < 

1328a. FILBERT CREAM TARTLETS. 

Line two dozen tartlet-moulds with some short-paste, and then 
fill them with the following preparation : — First, extract the kernels 
from a sufficient quantity of fresh filberts to produce half a pound 
of sound kernels ; let these be first pounded in a mortar, adding a 
dessert-spoonful of water, in order to prevent them from turning oily ; 
and when they are thoroughly bruised, add two ounces of fresh butter, 
four ounces of sugar, a liqueur-glassful of white noyeau, and the yolks 
of four eggs ; and, having beaten the whole well together, use the 
preparation as directed above. Bake the filled tartlets in a moderate 
oven, and when done remove them from the moulds on to a clean 
baking-sheet, and let them be glazed on the surface of the cream with 
the following mixture : — To a small glassful of white noyeau, add about 
two ounces of glazing-sugar, work these well together until they form 
a rather thick icing, which use as directed above ; and after this last 
part of the process is completed, place the tartlets in the screen to dry 
the icing. 

1328& COVENTRY TARTLETS. 

Line two dozen deep-fluted tartlet-moulds with some short-paste, 
and fill these with the following preparation : — Procure about twelve 
ounces of hard fresh curd, which place in a mortar with four ounces 
of pounded sugar, the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, 
as much grated nutmeg as would hold on a sixpence, a small pinch 
of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower-water; bruise all 
these smoothly together until the whole forms a compact creamy 
substance, and then use it as directed above. Bake the tartlets of a 
light color, and, when done, turn them out upside-down upon a 
sheet of paper, and allow them to cool. Next, proceed to mask over 
the upper part of each tartlet with some apricot-marmalade, and 
place thereon a tasteful decoration formed with angelica, dried 
cherries, &c, &c. 

These cakes may be varied in appearance by using currant or 
apple-jelly instead of apricot, &c, and ornamenting them with small 
cut fancy shapes or designs, made of worked puff-paste, or almond- 
paste. 

1329. APPLE TART WITH QUINCE. 

Peel the apples, remove the cores, cut them in slices or quarters, 
and arrange them neatly in the pie-dish ; then add the quince, which 
must be previously sliced up very thin, and stewed in a small stew- 
pan over a slow fire with a little water, sugar, and a small piece of 
butter ; add sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the quantity of 
apples the tart may contain, and strew some zest of lemon (i. e., the 
rind rubbed on sugar, and then scraped off) over the top. Cover 
the tart with puff-paste, first placing a band of the same round the 
edge of the dish ; scollop it round the ejlges by pressing them with 
the back of a knife, egg the tart over, then ornament the top by 
drawing out some fanciful design with the point of a knife, and bake 



462 FRITTERS. 

it of a light color ; when done, shake some sugar upon it, and use 
the red-hot salamander to glaze it. 

1330. PEAR TAET. 

If mellow pears be used for this purpose, the foregoing directions 
may be followed ; but if stewing pears are made use of, these must 
be first stewed with some sugar, a little water, and some lemon-peel 
and cloves tied together. When the pears are nearly done, allow 
them to cool previously to makiug the tart, which, in this case, should 
be covered with tart paste (No. 1255) ; when so far finished, sprinkle 
it over with a paste-brush dipped in some beaten white of egg, and 
some sifted sugar strewn upon it, it should then be baked of a light- 
color. 

1331. FRUIT TARTS IN GENERAL. 

When peaches, apricots, or any of the larger kinds of plums are 
used for making tarts, the stones should be removed, and the kernels 
taken out and blanched ; the fruit should be then neatly arranged 
in the tart-dish in the form of a dome, with the kernels amongst 
it, and some sifted sugar strewn over all. These tarts should in- 
variably be covered with tart-paste, and finished as directed in the fore- 
going case. 

For making cherry, damson, raspberry, and currant tarts, follow the 
same directions ; except that the stones need not be removed from the 
two first of these. 



FRITTERS, 



COMPRISING 



Apple Fritters. Custard Fritters. 

Pine Apple Fritters. Princess Fritters. 

Orange Fritters. Portuguese Fritters. 

Peach Fritters. German Fritters. 

Spanish Puffs. Diavolini. 

1332. APPLE FRITTERS. 

Cut the apples in rather thick slices, scoop out the cores with a 
tin-cutter, then pare off the rind, and place the pieces of apples in a 
basin with a small glass of brandy, a table-spoonful of sugar, and some 
grated peel of lemon or orange, letting them steep in this for several 
hours, if possible. When about to send the fritters to table, throw 
the pieces of apple into a basin containing some light-made better (Xo. 
232), then take them out one at a time, and drop them into some 
heated hog's-lard, to be fried of a light color ; when they are done, 
drain them on a sheet of paper, break off all the rough parts, place 
the fritters on a baking-sheet, shake some fine sugar upon them, glaze 
them with the red-hot salamander, and serve. 

Note. — Pear fritters are made in the same manner as the above. 



CUSTARD FRITTERS. 463 

1333. CUSTARD FRITTERS. 

Peel the pine apple without waste ; if it is small, cut it into slices 
in the same manner as apples ; but if the fruit happens to be large, it 
should be cut up in pieces about the size of a finger ; these must be 
then steeped with a glass of maraschino and a spoonful of pounded 
sugar, in a basin for several hours, previously to their being fried in 
batter; this should be mixed with cream. In other respects, finish 
these as directed for apple fritters. 

1334. ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Choose some thin-skinned oranges, peel them, divide them into 
quarters, remove the pips, and then put them to steep in a basin with 
a glass of brandy, a spoonful of sugar, and some grated rind of orange. 
Previously to frying the fritters, drain the pieces of oranges from the 
brandy, &c, throw them into some light-made batter (No. 232), then 
take them out one by one, drop them gently into some heated hog's 
lard, and fry them of a light color ; finish these in the usual manner. 

1335. PEACH FRITTERS. 

Cut the peaches into qnarters, remove the skins, and put them to 
steep in a basin with a glass of noyeau and a spoonful of sugar ; then 
fry them in batter, as directed in the foregoing cases. 

Note. — Fritters of apricots and large plums are prepared as the 
above; brandy being used instead of liqueur, to steep the fruit in. 

1336. SPANISH PUFFS. 

Prepare some petit 's-choux paste (No. 1291). Next, cut a sheet 
of foolscap-paper into four pieces, spread these with butter, and then 
take up as much of the paste as will stand in a small tea-spoon ; press 
it out in rows on the paper, in the form of round balls : this should be 
done just before frying them. When about to send to table, take hold 
of the sheets of paper containing the puffs, at one corner, and as they 
are immersed in the hot hog's-lard, shake them gently off the paper ; 
fry them of a light color, and when done, drain them on a wire-sieve 
covered with paper to absorb any grease : some fine sugar must then be 
shaken over them, previonsly to their being dished up on a napkin, in 
a conical form. 

1337. CUSTARD FRITTERS. 

Ingredients : — One pint of cream, ten yolks of eggs, one ounce of 
potato-flour, six ounces of sugar, a little cinnamon and grated lemon- 
peel. 

Mix the above ingredients together in a basin, after having first 
boiled the cinnamon and lemon in the cream ; strain the whole through 
a sieve, and then pour the custard into a plain mould, previously 
spread with butter : steam the custard in the usual manner, and when 
done, allow it to become cold, preparatory to its being cut up into 
slices about half an inch thick, and then divided into squares, of about 
two inches each : place these on a dish, and sprinkle them with a little 
cinnamon-powder, and a spoonful of brandy. When about to send to 
table, dip each piece of custard separately in some light-made batter 
(No. 232), theu drop them into some hot hog's-lard, and fry them of a 



464 FRITTERS. 

light color ; when done, drain them on a sheet of paper, break off any 
rough parts, sugar them, glaze them over with the red-hot salamander, 
and dish them up on a napkin. 

Note. — This kind of fritter may be varied by changing the flavor- 
ing, and also by adding a proportionate quantity of either grated 
chocolate, pulverized almouds essence of coffee, or lightly-burnt 
sugar. 

1337 a. PRINCESS FRITTERS. 

This kind of fritter is prepared from the remains of Brioche, Baba, 
Savarin, Compiegne cake, or Kouglauff ; which ever of the foregoing 
happens to be used for the specified purpose, should be first cut up into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick, and then again cut out into small 
circular shapes with a tin-cutter, about the diameter of a five-shilling 
piece ; place these in a sautapan previously strewn with orange sugar, 
and pour over them sufficient cream to cover them, shake some more 
orange sugar over the entire surface, and when about to fry the fritters, 
dip each- separately in very light and delicately -made frying-batter. 
When these fritters are fried crisp, let them be brightly glazed with 
sifted sugar and the red-hot salamander*, and, after being dished up, 
pour some apricot-jam, diluted with a little orange flower-water, round 
the base, and serve. 

1337 b. PORTUGUESE FRITTERS. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of Carolina rice, four ounces of sugar, 
two ounces of fresh butter, a quart of milk, a small stick of cinnamon, 
and a pound-pot of orange-marmalade, and six eggs. Thoroughly 
pick and wash the rice, and then place it in a convenient-sized stewpan, 
together with the sugar, butter, milk and cinnamon ; allow the whole 
to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire, until the whole of the 
milk is absorbed by the rice, when, if the simmering has been gradual 
and slow, the grains of rice will be satisfactorily done. Next add the 
orange-marmaiade, and the yolks of the six eggs ; stir the whole over 
a quick stove-fire until the eggs are set firm in the preparation ; it must 
now be turned out upon a clean dish or baking-sheet, and spread equally 
to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and when this has become 
cold, must be cut out in oblong shapes, which, after being first dipped 
in light frying-batter, are to be fried crisp, glazed with cinnamon-sugar, 
and dished up on a napkin. 

1337 c. DIAVOLINI. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of ground rice, four ounces of sugar, 
a quart of milk, two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of essence of 
ginger, six eggs, one pound of preserved ginger. 

Mix the rice, sugar, milk and butter together in a stewpan, and stir 
the produce over a stove-fire until it thickens; it must then be removed 
from the fire, and after being worked quite smooth, and the lid being 
put on the stewpan, set it either in the oven or over a slow ash-fire 
to finish doing; this will be effected in about half an hour. The rice 
must now be removed from the fire, and the preserved ginger pre- 
viously cut into very small dice-like shapes, the essence of ginger and 
the six yolks of eggs, being added thereto, stir the whole over a quick 



ICED PUDDINGS. 



465 



fire until the eggs are set firm in the rice, and then finish the fritters 
as directed in the preceding article ; using plain sugar to glaze them. 

1337c?. GERMAN FRITTERS. 

Divide one pound of Brioche-paste into twenty-four equal parts ; 
next, mould these into small finger-shapes, and bake them of a very 
light color. These fingers must now be placed in a deep sautapan, 
and a pint of cream, previously boiled with a stick of vanilla in it, is 
to be poured over them, and they are to be allowed to soak therein 
until quite cold ; after which they must be bread-crumbed by being 
first dipped in beaten egg, and then rolled in the bread-crumbs. 
About twenty minutes before the fritters are required to be served, 
fry them of a bright light color, in heated hog's-lard, shake some 
vanilla sugar over them, and when neatly piled on a napkin, send to 
table quite hot. 



ICED PUDDINGS AND ORNAMENTED ENTREMETS, 



COMPRISING 



Iced Cake, a la Stanley. 

Iced Rice. Pudding, d la Cintra. 

Iced Pudding, d la Cerito. 

„ d la Prince of Wales. 

„ d la Chesterfield. 

„ d la Kinnaird. 

„ d la Prince Albert. 

„ d la Parisienne. 

„ d la Duchess of Kent. 

Biscuit glarft, in small cases. 
Nesserrode Pudding. 
Led Pudding, d la Princess Alice. 
Millefeuillet Cuke, d la Chantilly. 
Apples and Rice, ornamented. 



Apples and Rice, plain. 

„ d la Portnguuise. 

„ in the form of a Porcupine. 

„ d la Portuynaise, another way. 
Flan of Peaches. 

Napolitaine Cake, d la Chantilly. 
Croquante of Oranges. 

„ of Fresh Walnuts. 

„ of Ratafias, d la Chantilly. 

3Ieringue. d la Parisienne. 
Grosse-Meringue, with Pistachios. 
Swan of Savoy Biscuit, d la Chantilly. 
Savoy Cake, in the form of Glazed Ham 



1338. ICED CAKE, A LA STANLEY. 



First, make a Parisian cake (in 
a fluted mould), as directed in No. 
1273. Next, prepare a compote of 
greengages in syrup ; these must 
be kept whole, and of as green a 
color as possible. Then, prepare 
a custard in the following manner : 
— Mix ten yolks of eggs with a 
pint and a half of boiling cream, 
eight ounces of sugar, and sufficient 
cinnamon and lemon-peel to flavor 
it ; add a very little salt, and stir 
the whole in a stewpan over the 
fire until it begins to thicken ; the 
custard should then be immediately 
passed through a tammy or sieve, 
into a basin, and allowed to become 
29 




466 



ICED PUDDINGS. 



cold. This custard must now be placed in a freezing-pot used for 
making ices, and should be occasionally worked with a spatula as it 
becomes set by freezing; when frozen sufficiently firm, scrape the 
custard from the sides of the pot, and gather it all up at the bottom ; 
put the lid on with paper to exclude the hot air, pour off the water 
from the tub, and after the pot has been packed in with fresh ice and 
salt, place a damp cloth over the top, and keep it in a very cool place 
until wanted. 

When about to send the cake to table, scoop out nearly the whole 
of the crumb from the centre, and fill it with the iced custard ; place 
it on its dish, pile up the compote of greengages on the top, as repre- 
sented in the wood-cut, pour some of the syrup round the base, and 
serve. 

1339. ICED EICE PUDDING, A LA CIXTRA. 

Wash and parboil eight ounces of Carolina rice ; then, put it into 

a stewpan, with a quart of milk 
and a pint of cream, two sticks of 
vanilla, twelve ounces of sugar, and 
a little salt ; allow the rice to sim- 
mer very gently over or by a slow 
stove-fire, until the grains are al- 
most dissolved, stirring it over oc- 
casionally with a light hand. When 
the rice is done, and while it is yet 
in a boiling state, add the yolks of 
six eggs ; then stir the whole well 
together for several minutes, in 
order to mix in the eggs, and also 
for the purpose of breaking up and 
smoothing the rice. Let this rice- 
custard be frozen in the same manner as directed in the foregoing case, 
and then put it into a plain mould ; cover it with the lid, and immerse 
it in the ice in the usual way. 

While the above part of the process is going on, a compote of twelve 
oranges (Tangerene, if in season) should be prepared in the following 
manner : — First, cut each orange into halves, remove the pithy core 
and the pips with the point of a small knife ; then, with a sharp knife, 
pare off the rind and white pith, so as to lay the transparent pulp of 
the fruit quite bare, taking care to trim them neatly, and without 
waste ; when the whole of the fruit is ready, throw it into a conve- 
nient-sized sugar-boiler, or stewpan, containing about a pint of syrup 
(made with one pouud of sugar, and nearly a pint of spring-water), 
allow the pieces of orange to boil up gently in this for two minutes, 
and then drain them on a sieve. Boil the syrup down to about one- 
half of its original quantity; then, add two wine-glasses of euracao, 
and three table-spoonfuls of apricot-jam ; mix the whole together, and 
pour it over the oranges in a basin. 

When about to send the padding to table, turn it out of the mould, 
and place it on its dish, dress the compote of oranges on the top and 
round the base, as represented in the wood-cut, pour the syrup over it, 
and serve. 




ICED PUDDINGS. 



467 




1340. PUDDING, A LA CEKITO. 

First, prepare about eighteen 
finger, and the same number of 
almond cornet-gauffres (No. 1284), 
and arrange the finger -gauffres 
round the inside of a plain circular 
charlotte-mould. Prepare also an 
iced custard, as directed for the 
Stanley cake, except that this must 
be flavored with vanilla. An iced 
Macedoine of fruits in a strawberry- 
water-ice must also be got ready. 

About an hour before sending 
the pudding to table, garnish the 
sides of the gauffres (previously 
placed iu the mould as directed 
above,) with a coating of the va- 
nilla-cream ice, about an inch thick, and cover the bottom of the mould 
in the same manner ; then fill up the centre with the iced Macedoine 
of fruits, place a round piece of paper on the top, and cover with the 
lid, next, immerse the pudding in rough ice, mixed with salt, in a pail 
or tub ; cover this over with a damp cloth, and set it in a cool place 
till wanted. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to 
its dish, with the decorated top placed upon it, and garnished round 
the base, and on- the centre, with the small gauffres, made in the 
form of cornets or cornucopias, each being filled with a little of the 
vanilla-cream ice, and a strawberry placed on the top ; then serve 
immediately. 

To prepare the decorated top above alluded to, a circular piece of 
gauffre, the size of the mould, must be ornamented with sugar-icing, 
pressed out of a cornet of paper, so as to imitate a scroll, as shown in 
the above wood-cut ; the icing must be allowed to dry in the screen, 
and the decoration should then be completed by introducing some red- 
currant and bright apple-jelly in between the scrolls. 

1341. ICED PUDDING, A LA PRINCE OF WALES. 

First, prepare eight yolks of 
eggs of custard, as for the Stanley 
cake (No. 1338) ; previously to 
passing this through a tammy, add 
two pottles of picked scarlet straw- 
berries, tossed in a sugar-boiler 
with ten ounces of pounded sugar 
over a brisk fire, until they begin 
to simmer ; when the whole has 
been passed into a puree, allow it to 
cool ; then freeze it in the usual 
manner, and fill a cylindrical pud- 
ding-mould with it, stop it down 
with the lid, and immerse it in rough 
ice. 

While the foregoing part of the process is in preparation, an iced 




468 



ICED PUDDINGS. 



Macedoine of fruits must be made as follows : — First, extract the juice 
from one pound of muscatel grapes, and add a sufficient quantity of 
syrup, to give body to it ; this must then be put into the freezing-pot, 
and worked in the usual way. Just before using the ice, a propor- 
tionate quantity of light-coloured fruit must be added, and mixed in 
lightly with the ice, so as not to bruise them : these fruits should 
consist of small pieces of pine-apple, peach, apricot, white raspberries, 
strawberries, and bigaroon cherries; this Macedoine should be finished 
just before dishing up. The pudding must be turned out of the mould 
on to its dish, the centre filled with the Macedoine, as represented in 
the annexed wood-cut, and immediately served. 

1342. ICED PUDDING, A LA CHESTERFIELD. 

Grate one pound of pine-apple into a basin, add this to eight yolks 

of eggs, one pint and a half of 
boiled cream, one pound of sugar, 
and a very little salt; stir the whole 
together iu a stewpan over a stove- 
fire until the custard begins to 
thicken ; then pass it through a 
tammy, by rubbing with two wooden 
spoons, in the same manner as for 
a puree, in order to force the pine- 
apple through the tammy. This 
custard must now be iced in the 
usual manner, and put into a mould 
of the shape represented in the an- 
nexed wood-cut ; and iu the centre 
of the iced cream, some Macedoine 
ice of red fruits, consisting of cher- 
ries, currants, strawberries and rasp- 
berries in a cherry-water ice, must be introduced ; cover the whole in 
with the lid, then immerse the pudding in rough ice in the usual way, 
and keep it in a cool place uutil wanted. 

When about to send the pudding to table, turn it out of the mould 
on to its dish, ornament the dish with a kind of drooping feather, 
formed with green angelica cut iu strips, and arranged as represented 
in the wood-cut; garnish the base with small gauffres, filled with 
some of the iced cream reserved for the purpose, place a straw berrv on 
the top of each, aud serve. 

1343. ICED PUDDING, A LA KINNAIRD. 

Blanch eight ounces of Jordan almonds, and two of bitter ditto ; 
dry them iu a cloth, put them into a sugar-boiler, and stir them over 
a slow fire, in order to roast them of a light color ; as soou as the 
almonds have acquired sufficient color, throw in six ounces of pounded 
sugar, and continue stirring the whole over the fire until the Mgar 
has melted, and acquired a light-brown color; they should now be 
withdrawn from the fire, and stirred about with the spoon until they 
have become nearly cold ; they must then be thoroughly pounded in 
the mortar, and added to eight yolks of eggs, eight ounces of sugar, and 
one pint and a half of boiled cream ; stir the whole with a woodeu 





ICED PUDDINGS. 46k 

spoon in a stewpan over the stove-fire, until the yolks of eggs are 
sufficiently set in the custard, and 
then pass it through a tammy in the 
same way as a puree. This custard 
must be iced in a freezing-pot in the 
usual manner, and afterwards put 
into a mould resembling that repre- 
sented in the wood-cut, and after 
being covered in with its lid, im- 
mersed in rough ice, there to remain 
until it is sent to table. The pud- 
ding must then be turned out of the 
mould on to its dish, the top gar- 
nished with a drooping feather, 
formed of strips of green augelica, 
and served. 

Note. — The centre of this pudding may be garnished with apricot or 
orange-marmalade, previously to its being again immersed in the 

rough ice. 

1344. ICED PUDDING, A LA PRINCE ALBEET. 

Prepare some rice custard ice, as directed for the pudding a la 
Cintra (No. 1339) : about half that quantity will suffice. Slice up a 
dozen, ripe apricots, and boil them with twelve ounces of sugar, and 
half a pint of water, until the fruit is dissolved ; then pass it through 
a sieve — if it should be too thick, add a little thin syrup, and freeze 
this in the usual manner. The two ices being ready, a pudding-mould 
should be lined with a coating of the apricot-water ice, about half an 
inch thick, and the centre filled up entirely with the iced rice-custard ; 
cover the pudding with the lid of the mould, and immerse it in rough 
ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on its 
dish, garnished with some wafer -gauff res filled with whipped cream 
seasoned with noyeau, and served immediately. 

1345. ICED PUDDING, A LA PARISIENNE. 

Parboil and remove the skin from eight ounces of Jordan almonds, 
and two ounces of bitter ditto, wash and dry them on a cloth, and then 
thoroughly pound them with twelve ounces of sugar in a mortar, until 
they present the appearance of a soft paste ; this must then be added 
to eight yolks of eggs, and a quart of boiled cream ; stir the whole 
together in a stewpan over a stove-fire, until the eggs are sufficiently 
set in the custard, and then pass it through the tammy in the same 
manner as a jmree. Pour this into a freezing-pot — ready packed in 
rough ice, and freeze it in the usual manner; when this is effected, fill 
an ice pudding-mould with it, cover it in with the lid, and immerse it 
in rough ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed 
on its dish, and the top and base garnished with a compote of apricots; 
after mixing a glass of noyeau in with the syrup, pour it over the 
pudding, and serve. 

1346. ICED PUDDING, A LA DUCHESS OF KENT. 
Remove the skins from one pound of filbert-kernels, and pound these 
with ten ounces of sugar (adding a few drops of water), until they 



479 ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. 

become soft and pulpy ; take up this paste into a basin, add a pint of 
single cream, stir the whole well together, and pass it through a tammy 
into a puree ; then freeze this in the usual manner. While the above 
is being prepared, a pint of cherry-water-ice must be made as follows : — 
Remove the stalks from two pounds of Kentish cherries, and bruise 
them thoroughly in a mortar, so as to break the stones, then take them 
up into a sugar-boiler, add twelve ounces of sugar, and boil the whole 
together over a brisk stove-fire for five minutes ; rub this through a 
hair-sieve into a basin, and freeze it, adding a little thin syrup, if ne- 
cessary. Use the cherry-water-ice to line the pudding-mould with, 
garnish the centre with the filbert-cream-ice, cover the mould with its 
lid, and immerse the pudding in rough ice until dishing-up time. The 
pudding must then be turned out on its dish, garnished round with 
v, r afer-gai(ffres filled with some of the filbert-cream reserved for the 
purpose, and served immediately. 

1347. BISCUITS GLACES, IN SMALL CASES. 

To eight yolks of eggs, add one pint of cream, four ounces of ratifias, 
ten ounces of sugar, and a very little salt ; stir the whole in a stewpan 
over a stove-fire until the egg is sufficiently set ; then pass the custard 
through a tammy into a basin, and when it has become cold, add two 
wine-glasses of maraschino, and freeze this in the usual manner. Just 
before dishing up the biscuits, half a pint of whipped cream must be 
lightly added to the iced custard ; the small paper cases must be filled 
with this, and afterwards sprinkled over with some finely-bruised high- 
colored ratifias, then dish the biscuits upon a napkin, and serve. 

Note. — These iced biscuits may be also infinitely varied, by changing 
the flavorings : for which purpose, all kinds of liqueurs, and essences 
of almonds, vanilla, orange, lemon, coffee, chocolate, or orange-flowers, 
may be used : they may also be made by adding a puree of apricots, 
strawberries, raspberries, or pine-apple, to the custard. 

1348. NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Boil three dozen chestnuts in water, and when done, peel, pound, 
and rub them through a sieve ; put this pulp into a stewpan with eight 
yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, two sticks of vanilla, previously pounded, 
half a pint of pine-apple syrup, and a very little salt ; stir these ingre- 
dients over a stove-fire until the eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, 
then rub the whole through a tammy, and put the cream into a basin. 
Cut four ounces of green citron, six ounces of piue-apple (previously 
simmered in the syrup above alluded to), and place these in a basin 
with six ounces of dried cherries, and four ounces of Smyrna raisins ; 
to these add two wine-glasses of maraschino, and allow the fruit to 
steep for several hours. Place the chestnut cream in a freezing-pot 
immersed in rough ice, and freeze it in the usual manner; then add 
half a pint of whipped cream and the fruit. Mix the pudding, and 
continue working the freezing-pot for a few minutes longer; when the 
pudding is thoroughly set firm, put it into the mould, cover it down 
and immerse it in ice until it is required to be sent to table. 



MILLE-FEUILLES CAKE. 471 

1349. ICED PUDDIXG, A LA PEINCESS ALICE. 

First, remove the skins from the kernels of about fifty green wal- 
nuts, then pound these with ten ounces of sugar, until the whole forms 
a kind of soft and pulpy paste ; take this up into a basin, mix it with 
a pint of single cream, then pass it through a tammy into a. puree, and 
let this be frozen in the usual manner. 

While the above is in course of preparation, two dozen greengages 
n&ufii be boiled with twelve ounces of sugar and half" a pint of water, 
until the fruit is dissolved, when the whole must be rubbed through a 
tammy or sieve : this should then be frozen, adding, if necessary, a little 
thin syrup. The pudding-mould must now be lined with the greengage 
ice, and the centre filled with the walnut-cream ice ; then place the lid 
on the mould, and immerse the padding in rough ice in the usual man- 
ner, until dishing-up time, when the pudding must be turned out on to 
its dish, garnished round with small almond-gauffres filled with whipped 
cream, with a preserved cherry placed on the top of each, and served 
immediately. 

1350. MILLE-FEUILLES CAKE,* A LA CHANTILLY. 

Give ten turns to one pound of 
puff paste (No. 1261), then divide 
it into two pieces, and roll them 
out to the thickness of the tenth 
part of an inch ; then, with a cir- 
cular tin-cutter about five inches 
in diameter, stamp out eight or ten 
flats ; place these on baking-sheets, 
stamp out the centre part from 
each of the flats, leaving only a 
circular band about two inches 
wide ; shake some fine sugar over 
them, and bake them of a very 
light color, and when done, allow 
them to become cold. The flats 
must now be raised one upon 
another, with layers of some kind 
of preserve between each, and placed on a baking-sheet, in order that 
the cake may be entirely covered with a thin coating of whipped 
whites of eggs mixed with sugar ; this must be smoothed over with 
the blade of a knife, and should be then ornamented with a paper 
cornet filled with some of the white of egg, as represented in the 
wood-cut : as soon as this is completed, shake some fine sugar over it, 
and dry it of a very light color in a slow oven, or else in the hot 
closet. When the decoration of the cake has been dried, it must be 
ornamented with bright red-currant and apple-jelly, placed tastefully 
about the design so as to give it more effect. On sending to table, 
fill the centre of the cake with whipped cream flavored with some 
kind of liqueur, garnish the dome of cream with strawberries, and 
serve. 

The above may also be ornamented with spun sugar or with pista- 

* Or " thousand-leaved" cake, so called from the lightness of the puflf-pastc with 
which it is made. 




472 



ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. 




chios. The centre of these cakes may also be filled with a Macedoine 
of fruit in jelly, or with any of the various kinds of creams ; the latter 
should be whipped on the ice, until nearly set. 

1351. APPLES AND RICE ORNAMENTED. 

First, turn or peel smoothly about two dozen golden pippins 

{after the cores have been removed) ; 
boil these very gently in some light 
syrup for about ten minutes, when 
they will be sufficiently done. Then 
prepare some rice in the same man- 
ner as for a cake, observing that 
for this purpose, it must be kept 
firmer. Prepare also a circular 
or oval raised pie-case (No. 752), 
about three inches high, taking care 
that its diameter suits the dish it is 
meant for. When the case is baked, 
fill it with the prepared rice, and 
pile the apples up in a pyramidal 
form, as represented in the wood- 
cut, placing some of the rice in the 
centre of these. Mask the whole with some diluted apricot-jam, place 
a preserved cherry in the hole of each apple, and insert some pieces 
of angelica, cut in the form of pointed leaves, in between the apples. 
This dish should be served hot, and must, therefore, be dished up only 
a short time previously to its being served. 

1352. APPLES AND RICE, PLAIN. 

Divide a dozen apples in halves, take out the cores, peel them, and 
place them in neat order in a deep sautapan thickly spread with butter ; 
strew some lemon-sugar over them, put the lid on, and then bake them 
without allowing them to acquire any color. Prepare some rice boiled 
with milk, sugar, a little butter, and some cinnamon ; when thoroughly 
done, work this up with a spoon, and then dish it up in the form of a 
dome ; arrange the apples neatly upon this, pour some melted apricot- 
jam over the whole, and serve quite hot. 

1353. APPLES, A LA PORTTJGUAISE. 

Prepare some apple marmalade with about a dozen apples. Split 

a dozen apples into halves, peel 
them, and remove the cores, and 
then place them in a deep sautapan 
thickly spread with butter ; shake 
some sugar and grated lemon-peel 
over them, and bake them in the 
oven. Prepare next a small quan- 
tity of pastry custard (No. 1311), 
also an ornamented case (No. 752), 
which should be partially baked. 

When the foregoing articles are 
ready, nearly fill the case with the 
marmalade of apples, leaving an 




APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE. 473 

opening; or well in the centre; then pile the pieces of apples upon the 
marmalade in the form of a dome, leaving the centre hollow ; lill this 
with the pastry-custard, and cover the whole with some orange 
marmalade. Next, whip four whites of eggs quite firm, mix in four 
ounces of sifted sugar, and use thfameringue- paste to finish the apples, 
according to the design placed at the head of this article : this is done 
by first masking over the entire surface of the dome, formed by the 
apples, with a smooth coating of the prepared whites of eggs, and then 
with a paper cornet filled with some of the same, marking out the 
design : when this has been effected, shake some sifted sugar upon it, 
and bake the meringue of a very light-fawn color. Just before send- 
ing this entremet to table, finish ornamenting it by filling up the inner 
part of the cross with alternate strips or layers of red-currant and 
apple-jellies, and also with greengage or apricot-jam ; these must be 
arranged so as to show their colors distinctly, which will produce a 
very pretty effect. 

This entremets should be served hot. 

1854. APPLES IN THE FORM OF A PORCUPINE. 

Prepare some marmalade with about eighteen apples ; place this in 
an oval case of raised pie-paste previously baked for the purpose ; 
leave a hollow in the centre of the marmalade, fill this up with some 
pastry custard (No. 1311), and spread some apricot-jam over the whole. 
Next, prepare some meringue-paste as directed in the foregoing article, 
and spread this over the surface of the apples, giving it at the same 
time the form of a porcupine ; when this has been effected, about six 
ounces of Jordan almonds, previously shred in strips, must be regularly 
inserted in close rows, to imitate the quills of porcupine, and the head 
and feet should be marked out with angelica cut out in imitation of 
these. Shake some sifted sugar upon the whole, and bake the meringue 
covering of a very light-fawn color. Just before sending to table, fill 
out the circle of the eyes with apple-jelly, with a currant inserted in the 
centre of each to form the pupils, and use a paper cornet filled with 
red-currant-jelly, to draw some stripes lengthwise, between the rows of 
almonds placed on the back. 

1855. APPLES, A LA PORTUGUAISE, ANOTHER WAY. 

Remove the cores from a dozen golden pippins, or small russets ; 
peel them smoothly, and then simmer them in a pint of light syrup 
until they are nearly done ; they must then be drained on a sieve. 
Next, spread t he bottom and sides of a baked pie-case raised in a mould 
about two inches high (tart-paste should be used for this purpose), with 
apple marmalade mixed with one-third part of orange-jam, and arrange 
the apples in close circular order in this ; each apple must lie filled with 
orange-jam, and the entire surface then masked over with a rather 
thick coating of transparent red-currant or apple-jelly. Some tasteful 
design should be formed on the layer of jelly in the form of a wreath 
or scroll; this should be done either with almond paste, or with puff- 
paste to which ten turns have been given, then stamped out with ap- 
propriate tin-cutters, and placed on a baking-sheet, sugared over 
baked, without allowing it to acquire any color. The latter style of 
ornamenting is preferable. 



474 



ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. 



1356. FLAN OF PEACHES. 

For this purpose, a crust or case should be prepared in the following 
manner. First, make one pound of short paste (No. 1255) ; then 
spread with butter the inside of a fluted circular or oval mould, about 
two inches high, and eight inches in diameter ; line this with the paste, 
cut the edges level, and then raise them all round, and pinch the part 
that rises above the mould with a pair of pastry pincers. Xext, fill 
the case with flour, mixed with one-sixth part of chopped suet, and 
bake it until it is about three parts done ; the flour must then be re- 
moved, and the case brushed out clean, with a paste-brush ; after which 
it must be nearly filled with halves of peaches, previously skinned and 
simmered in some thin syrup for about five minutes; the Jian must now 
be placed again in the oveu for about a quarter of an hour, and when 
withdrawn, a close row of halves of peaches (previously simmered in 
syrup added to the juice of a pint of red currants) should be neatly 
arranged, and a peach kernel being placed on each piece of peach, let 
the jelly be poured over the whole, and serve. 

Note-. — For the preparation of Jlans of apricots, and all kinds of 
plums, follow the above directions ; except that in either of these cases, 
the currant juice is to be omitted. 

1357. NEAPOLITAN CAKE, A LA CHANTILLY 

First, weigh one pound of flour, eight ounces of sifted sugar, eight 
ounces of pounded almonds, and eight ounces of butter ; place these 

ingredients on the pastry slab, add 
five yolks of eggs, the zest of the 
rind of two oranges extracted by 
rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a 
very little salt ; work these well 
together, and when they are thor- 
oughly mixed, knead the paste into 
the form of a rolling-pih, and divide 
it into twelve equal parts; these 
must be again kneaded into round 
balls, rolled out to the diameter of 
about seven inches, placed upon 
baking-sheets, spread with butter ; 
after having cut them all of the 
same size with a circular tin-cutter, 
let them be egged and pricked all 
over with a fork, and baked of a 
light color, and when done, placed on a level slab or table, with a 
baking-sheet upon them, to keep them straight as they become cold. 
These flats must then be laid one upon another, with a layer of some 
kind of preserve spread between each : apricot, greengage, straw- 
berry, orange, or raspberry-jam, may be used for the purpose. Pre- 
viously to placing the last piece on the top of the cake, it should be 
first decorated with merirKjm'-\mste or sugar-icing; the sides must be 
masked with some kind of bright preserve, — such as g r ew ig agt, apri- 
cot, red-currant, or apple-jelly, and afterwards ornamented with 
a design similar to that represented in the wood-cut, formed either of 





CROQUANTE OF RATAFIAS. 475 

almond or gum-paste (raised from carved boards used for such pur- 
poses) ; or else with piping, as used for wedding-cakes. The cake 
should then be placed on its dish, the centre filled with whipped 
cream, and some strawberries piled on the top ; when these are not in 
season, preserved cherries, verjuice, or angelica may be substituted. 

1358. CROQUANTE OF ORANGES. 

Let the peel and all the white pith be carefully removed with the 
fingers from about a dozen sound, and not over-ripe oranges ; then 
divide them by pulling them into 
small sections with the fingers, 
taking care not to break the thin 
skin which envelopes the juicy pulp, 
then place them on an earthen dish. 
Next, put about one pound of the 
finest lump-sugar into a sugar- 
boiler with sufficient spring water 
to just cover it and boil it down 
until it snaps or becomes brittle, 

which may be easily ascertained thus : take up a little of the sugar, 
when it begins to boil up in large purling bubbles, on the point of a 
knife, and instantly dip it into some cold water; if the sugar becomes 
set, it is sufficiently boiled, and will then easily snap in breaking.* 
The sugar should now be withdrawn from the fire. The pieces of 
orange stuck on the points of small wooden skewers must be slightly 
dipped in the sugar, and arranged at the bottom and round the sides 
of a plain circular mould (previously very lightly rubbed with salad- 
oil), according to the foregoing design. When the whole is complete, 
and the sugar has become firm by cooling, just before sending to 
table, fill the inside of the croquante with whipped cream, seasoned 
with sugar, a glass of maraschino and some whole strawberries, and 
then turn it out on to a napkin, and serve. 

1359. CROQUANTE OF FRESH WALNUTS. 

The fittest season for making this, is when the walnuts are just ripe 
enough to be easily taken out of the shell ; about sixty will be required 
for the purpose. They must be carefully shelled and divided into 
halves, then freed from the thin whitish skin which covers the kernels, 
and kept in a clean napkin until used. In all other respects, this 
kind of croquante must be finished as in the preceding case. 

1360. CROQUANTE OF RATH AS, A LA CHANTTLLY. 

Procure one pound of small ratafias ; boil down one pound of the 
finest loaf-sugar as directed in the foregoing case. Then, slightly rub 
the inside of a basket-shaped mould with oil, and proceed to line 
this with the ratafias lightly dipped in the sugar — taking care to ar- 
range them in neat and close order; when the croquante is completed, 
and the sugar has become firmly set, turn it out of the mould. With 
the remainder of the sugar, form the handles, and a scroll-pattern 
border, which is to be placed round the join of the basket, and also 

* When boiling sugar for this purpose, it is customary to add a pinch of cream of 
tartar and calcined alum mixed, or, a few drops of acetic-acid. 



476 ORNAMENTAL ENTREMETS. 

round the edge : this is effected by dipping the pointed end of the 
bowl of a spoon into the hot sugar, and then drawing it ont, and 
dropping the sugar from the bowl, in the form of the intended design, 
on a baking-sheet slightly oiled ; before it becomes set, fix it round the 
part it is to ornament. Just before sending the croquante to table, ' 
fill the inside with whipped cream, arrange some strawberries, pre- 
served cherries, or cut angelica, neatly on the surface, and serve. 

1361. MERINGUE, A LA PARISIENNE. 

First, make half a pound of office-paste (No. 1257) ; then, slightly 
rub the outside of a tin vegetable-cutter, about one and a quarter 

inch in diameter, and cover this to 
the extent of about three and a 
half inches in length, with some of 
the office-paste rolled out rather 
thin ; fasten the joint neatly with 
egg, and place it on a baking-sheet ; 
roll out the remainder of the paste 
to the thickness of the eighth part 
of an inch, and, out of this cut two 
circular pieces or flats, one measur- 
ing about six inches, and the other 
four inches in diameter ; place them 
on a buttered baking-sheet, egg 
them over, prick them with a fork, 
and bake them of a light color, in 
a slow oven. When they are done, 
and have become cold, file or scrape 
their edges even and smooth, and- cut the ends of the pillar even, 
that it may stand perfectly level ; then fasten the base of the pillar 
on to the centre of the largest flat, with a little white of egg and fine 
sugar mixed together; next, fasten the smaller flat on the top of the 
pillar in like manner, taking care that it is quite straight, and put the 
whole to dry in the screen. 

Whip twelve whites of eggs into a firm substantial froth, and then 
mix in one pound of finely-sifted sugar ; use part of this to mask the 
entire surface of the foundation already described, and set this to dry 
at the entrance of the oven; when it has become comparatively hard, 
fill a paper cornet or biscuit forcer, with some of the mertRgrue-paite, 
and use this to form the design round the pedestal of the meringue, as 
represented in the wood-cut: when this is done, shake some sugar 
over it, and put it into the oven to be baked of a very light-fawn 
color. With part of the meringue-paste, a kind of cup or deep saucer, 
measuring about seven inches in diameter, must be formed, by cover- 
ing a flat dome (made of tin) with the paste to the. thickness of about 
an inch ; this must be well sugared over and baked firm, without al- 
lowing it to acquire much color. When this is done, take the me- 
ringue carefully off the dome, and place it upside down in a soap plate, 
and after the white of egg has been partially removed from the inte- 
rior, smoothed with a spoon, and then sugared over, set it to dry iu 
the hot-closet, or at the entrance of the oven, if the latter is not, too 
hot. As soon as the meringue has become dry and hard, fasten it on 
the pedestal with a little of the paste, and use a paper cornet filled 




MERINGUE, ETC. 477 

with meringue -paste, to finish ornamenting the edge and sides, as re- 
presented in the wood-cut ; shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked 
part, and put the meringue to dry in the hot-closet, taking particular 
care that it does not acquire any color. Just before sending to 
table, place the meringue on a napkin in its dish, fill it with whipped 
cream flavored with orange-flower or some liqueur, and strew some 
strawberries on the surface ; garnish round the base with quarters of 
lemons or oranges filled with jelly (No. 1429), and serve. 

1362. GROSSE-MERINGUE WITH PISTACHIOS 

Prepare the meWngrwe-paste as directed in (No. 1298) ; then cut 
six circular pieces of writing-paper to the size of a dinner-plate and 
proceed to cover each of these with a kind of wreath formed with the 
meringue-p&ste. This is effected in the following manner : — First, draw 
a rather thick circle, about five inches in diameter, round the inner 
part of one of the pieces of paper above alluded to ; then, with a 
dessert-spoon mould the paste in the form of very small elongated 
ovals, and place these crosswise, closely to each other upon the circle 
already mentioned, thus forming a kind of wreath : fill the remaining 
five papers in the same way, and then, after the meringues have been 
well covered with sifted sugar, shake off the loose sugar, place them 
on square pieces of board, and bake them of a very light color. 
When done, turn the wreaths of meringue upside down upon plates, 
shake sone sifted sugar over the unbaked part, and set them to dry 
in a very slow oven. 

.Just before sending to table, pile the wreaths or rings of meringue 
one upon another, with a layer of apricot-jam spread in between each ; 
fill the centre with whipped cream, flavored with a glass of liqueur, 
and serve 

1863. SWAN OF SAVOY BISCUIT, A LA CHANTILLY. 

Prepare sixteen eggs of Savoy-cake batter (No. 1215), and bake 
it in a plain oval mould, — or failing this, in a deep oblong paper case ; 
when it is done, and has become quite cold, shape it with a sharp 
knife in the rough outline of the body of a swan ; the wings, tail- 
piece, and the neck and head, must be made of office-paste (No. 125?) ; 
the bill should be dipped in rather high-colored boiled sugar, and 
the eyes may be formed with a little of the same, with a currant stuck 
in the centre for the pupil. Just before sending the swan to table, 
stick the neck into the breast-part, insert the wing-pieces in the sides, 
and the fan-like piece into the tail-part; cover the bird entirely with 
a thick coating of whipped-cream ; first smooth this over with the 
blade of a knife, and then, with the point of a small knife, imitate the 
feathers about the wings, tail, and body. Place some spun-sugar 
round the swan— r in imitation of waves, and put a border of petits 
choux, glazed with rough sugar and pistachios; round the base, and 
serve. 

1364. SAVOY CAKE IN THE FORM OF A GLAZED HAM. 
Bake sixteen eggs of Savoy-cake batter in an oblong paper case ; 
when this has become quite cold, shape it in the form of a nicely- 
trimmed ham, with a sharp knife, and hollow it out underneath. 
That part of the riud which is usually left adhering to the knuckle 



478 RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES. 

as an ornament must be imitated by spreading a layer of chocolate- 
icing over it, in the form of a scollop shell ; the remaining part of the 
surface of the ham should be masked with a coating of diluted bright 
apricot jam, to imitate glaze. 

Just before sending the ham to table, fill the hollow part with some 
Macedoine of fruit in jelly, or else with some kind of cream ; then place 
the ham on its dish, fix a handsome paper ruffle on the knuckle with 
a small silver skewer ; garnish the ham round the base with croutons 
of some kind of sweet jelly, pink and white ; place an ornament of 
the same on the top, and serve. 



RICE CAKE AND TIMBALES, 



COMPRISING 

Rice' Cake with Almonds. Mncnroni Cake. 

Timbnle of Rice. Semolina Cake. 

NouiUes Cnke, d V Allemande. Potato Cake. 
Vermicelli Cake. 

1365. RICE CAKE, WITH ALMONDS. 

Wash twelve ounces of rice, put it into a stewpan with four ounces 
of butter, eight ounces of sugar, half an ounce of bitter, and four 
ounces of sweet almonds (pounded), one quart of milk, and a very 
little salt ; set the whole to boil very gently by the side of a slow 
stove-fire, and by the time the millr has become absorbed by the rice, 
the latter will be sufficiently done, — or, if not, a little more milk should 
be added previously to setting it to boil a little longer. When the 
rice is done, mix in the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three 
whipped. Next, shred four ounces of sweet almonds, and strew 
them equally over the inside of a plain mould, previously rather thickly 
spread with butter ; then pour in the prepared rice, and bake the 
cake for about one hour and a half; when done, turn it out on to its 
dish, pour some diluted apricot-jam round the base, and serve. 

Note. — Rice cakes may also be flavored with vanilla, orange-flower, 
lemon and cinnamon, coffee, or any kind of liqueur; dried cherries, 
currants, sultana-raisins, candied-orange, lemon or citron or pistachio- 
kernels may be added. 

1866. TIMBALE OF RICE. 

The only difference between this and a rice cake consists in the 
mould being lined either with short or puff-paste : nouilles- paste, how- 
ever is sometimes used for the purpose : it should be rolled in the 
form of very small pipes, and the mould closely lined with them. 
The prepared rice should then be poured into the mould, and baked 
for about an hour and a half. When done, turn the timbale out of the 
mould on its dish, glaze it over with sugar, and with the salamander, 
then pour some kind of diluted preserve (warm), round the base. 



POTATO CAKE. 479 

1367. NOUILLES CAKES, A LALLEMANDE. 

Prepare about six yolks of nouilles (No. 1256), put them into a 
stewpan with one quart of milk of almonds,* eight ounces of sugar, 
four ounces of butter, two sticks of vanilla and a very little salt; 
cover with the lid, and set them to simmer very gently by the side of 
a slow stove-fire ; by the time that the nouilles have absorbed all the milk 
they will be sufficiently done, and must then be withdrawn from the 
fire and emptied into a basin. Add the yolks of six eggs, and the 
whipped whites of three, mix the whole lightly together, and pour it 
into a mould previously spread with butter, and strewn with shreded 
almonds. The cake must then be baked in the usual manner, and 
when done, turned out of the mould on its dish, and served with some 
"Victoria cherry sauce (No. 64). 

Note. — This kind of cake may also be made with maccaroni, vermi- 
celli, or semolina, and it may be flavored in the same manner as rice 
cakes or timbales. 

1368. VERMICELLI CAKE. 

Parboil twelve ounces of vermicelli, drain it on a sieve, and then 
put it into a stewpan with a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, 
eight ounces of sugar, the zest or essence of the rind of two oranges 
extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a little salt ; cover with 
the lid, and set the stewpan to simmer very gently on a slow fire until 
the vermicelli has entirely absorbed the cream. Then, add the yolks 
of six eggs and the whipped whites of three, mix the whole lightly 
together, and put this preparation into a mould previously spread with 
butter, and strewn with bread-crumbs ; bake the cake in the oven for 
about an hour and a half, and when done, turn it out on its dish ; 
pour some damson sauce round the base, and serve. 

1369. MACCARONI CAKE 
Is prepared in the same wav as a vermicelli cake. 

1370. SEMOLINA CAKE. 

This is also made in the same manner as a vermicelli cake, except 
that it does not require to be parboiled. 

Sago and tapioca are treated in a similar way. 

1371. POTATO CAKE 

ake eighteen large York potatoes, and when done, rub their pulp 
through a wire sieve ; put this into a large basin, add four ounces of 
butter, eight ounces of sifted sugar, a spoonful of pounded vanilla, a 
gill of cream, the yolks of six eggs, and the whipped whites of two, 
and a little salt ; work the whole well together, and then place it in a 
mould previously spread with butter, and strewn with bread-crumbs ; 

* Milk of almonds is prepared in the following manner: — First, remove the skins 
from eightounces of Jordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter almonds, then pound them 
thoroughly in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of water; when they are well 
pulverized, place them in a basin, add a quart of spring-water, mix well together, and 
allow this to stand for about an hour,- the milk may then drawn off by straining it 
through a napkin. 



480 SOUFFLES 

bake the cake for about an hour, and when done, dish it up with a fruit 
sauce poured round the base, made in the following manner : — 

Pick one pound of either currants, raspberries, cherries, damsons, 
strawberries, or apricots ; place them in a stewpan with eight ounces 
of sifted sugar and half a gill of water; boil the whole down to the con- 
sistency of a thick puree, and then rub it through a sieve or tammy. 



SOUFFLES IN GENERAL, 

COMPRISING 

Potato-flour Souffli. Souffles of Raspberries. 

Souffle of Rice. Brown bread Souffli d V Allemande. 

Chocolate Souffli. Omelette Soufflie. 

Coffee Souffle. Pancakes, plain. 

Ginger Souffli. „ d la Celestine. 

Pine-apple Souffli Pancakes Soufflis. 

Souffle of Apricots. 

1372. POTATO FLOUR SOUFFLE. 

Ingredients : — Six ounces of potato-flour, ten ounces of sugar, four 
ounces of butter, one pint of cream or milk, twelve eggs, two sticks of 
vanilla, and a little salt. 

Put the milk or cream to boil, then throw in the vanilla, cover the 
stewpan with its lid, and allow the infusion to stand for about half 
an hour, in order to extract the flavor of the vanilla. Next, put the 
potato-flour, the sugar, butter, salt, and one egg into a stewpan, and 
mix the whole well together; then add the milk and the vanilla, and 
stir the preparation on the stove-fire until it boils, when it must be 
worked with the spoon to make it perfectly smooth ; after adding the 
yolks of ten eggs, set it aside, while the ten whites are being whipped 
quite firm, and then add these in with the souffle batter: pour the whole 
lightly into a souffle dish, having a broad band of buttered cartridge 
paper round the outside, and then set it in the oven to bake : this will 
take about three-quarters of an hour. When the souffle is done, 
place it (on its baking-sheet) upon another baking-sheet covered with 
hot embers of charcoal, and let it be thus carried to the dining-room 
door ; just before dishing it up, remove the bands of paper, shake 
some sifted sugar over the top, place it in the souffle dish, and serve 
immediately. 

Note. — Souffles of flour, ground rice, semolina, arrow root, tapioca, 
foux-les-mois (a kind of potato-flour), should all be prepared as the 
above ; substituting either of these for the potato-flour. Souffles may 
be flavored with orange, lemon, cinnamon, orange-flowers, or with 
any kind of essence or liqueur. 

1373. SOUFFLE OF RICE. 

Ingredients: — Six ounces of rice, ten ounces of sugar, four ounces 
of butter, ten eggs, two lemons, a quart of milk, and a little salt. 
Wash the rice and parboil it in water for five minutes ; then put it 
into a stewpan with the sugar, butter, milk, and salt, and set this to 



SOUFFLES. 481 

simmer very gently on a slow fire for about an hour, by which time the 
grains nf the rice will have become quite s<fft ; the whole should now 
be well worked with a wooden spoon, and the ten yolks of eggs, with 
the rind of the lemons rubbed on sugar, should then be added, and if 
the rice be too firm, a little cream also. The ten whites of eggs must 
be whipped very firm, then lightly mixed in with the preparation, and 
poured into the souffle case or crust, baked for about three-quarters 
of an hour, and served immediately. 

1374. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 

This is made by adding eight ounces of finely-scraped vanilla cho- 
colate to two-thirds of the same kind of preparation directed to be 
used in making a potato-flour souffle. The same number of eggs are 
also required. 

1375. COFFEE SOUFFLE. 

Put eight ounces of Mocha coffee into an untinned stewpan or sugar- 
boiler, and roast it of a light color, by stirring it continually over a 
charcoaF fire. When the coffee has acquired a light-brown color, toss 
it up in the pan, blow away the small burnt particles, and then throw 
it into a pint of boiling cream ; put the lid on the infusion, and allow 
it to stand for about half an hour, in order to extract the flavor. 
Then, strain the infusion away from the coffee-berries, in a basin, and 
use it to mix up the souffle, in exactly the same manner as described 
for the potato-flour souffle. 

1376. GINGER SOUFFLE. 

Prepare a potato-flour souffle, and add to it eight ounces of pre- 
served ginger cut up into small dice-like pieces. The vanilla must of 
course be omitted. 

1377. PINE-APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Follow the directions for making a potato-flour souffle, adding to 
it about one pound of preserved pine-apple, cut up into small pieces ; 
the syrup of this should also be added. 

1378. SOUFFLE OF APRICOTS. 

Remove the stones, and peel eighteen ripe apricots, then put them, 
together with the kernels, into a stewpan wita twelve ounces of pounded 
sugar ; stir this over the fire with a wooden spoon, and as soon as the 
fruit is boiled down to a jam, withdraw it from the fire, and mix it with 
dalf the usual quantity of the preparation for a potato-flour souffle. 
The same number of eggs are required, and in all other respects the 
same directions should be followed. 

Note. — Souffles of peaches, nectarines, and all kinds of plums, are 
prepared in the same manner as the above. 

1379. SOUFFLE OF RASPBERRIES. 

Put one pound of picked raspberries into a small preserving pan, 
with twelve ounces of pounded sugar, stir the whole over a charcoal 
fire until it has boiled for about five minutes, and then rub it through 
a sieve. Use this preparation as directed for making a souffle of 
apricots. 
30 



482 PANCAKES. 

Note. — Souffles of currants, strawberries, or gooseberries, are made 
in the same way. 

1380. BROWN-BREAD SOUFFLE, A LALLEMANDE. 

Put one pound of brown bread-crumbs into a stewpan, with a pint 
of cream, ten ounces of pounded sugar, four ounces of butter, and a 
little salt, and flavor it with some cinnamon-powder and lemon-sugar. 
Stir this over the stove-fire until it boils, then remove it, and add the 
yolks of ten eggs ; next, whip the whites quite firm, and mix them in 
lightly with the preparation, then pour it into the souffle-cane, and bake 
it in the usual manner : when done, shake some cinnamon-sugar over 
it, and serve. 

1381. OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Put the yolks of six eggs into a large basin, add six ounces of 
pounded sugar, a dessert-spoonful of potato-flour, ditto of orange- 
flower-water (or any other kind of essence or liqueur used for such 
purposes), and a very little salt ; stir these together with a wooden 
spoon for about ten minutes ; then whip the six whites, and mix 
them in lightly with the batter. Next, put two ounces of butter into 
an omelet-pan, set it on a stove-fire, and as soon as the butter begins 
to sputter, pour the whole of the omelet-batter into it ; set the pan 
over the fire, and as the battter becomes partially set round the sides 
and at the bottom of the pan, toss it over and over gently, and then 
turn the omelette out neatly, and as much as possible in the form of a 
dome, on to a silver dish previously spread with butter ; put it in the 
oven, and bake it for about twelve minutes, when it will be ready to 
send to table. Shake some sugar ,pn the omelette, and serve it imme- 
diately. 

1382. PANCAKES, PLAIN. 

Mix four ounces of flour with four ounces of pounded sugar, two 
ounces of bruised ratafias, a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower-water, 
four yolks and two whole eggs, a pint of cream, and a very little salt. 
When milk is used instead of cream, two ounces of butter should be 
added, and must be melted previously to its being mixed in with the 
batter. 

When about to fry the pancakes, melt about two ounces of butter 
in a small stewpan, and keep this by the side of the stove ; before 
throwing any of the batter into the pan, first pour a little of the butter 
over the bottom: fry the pancakes on both sides of a very light-brown 
color, pile them one upon another on the dish, and serve immediately. 
Plain pancakes should be eaten with a little lemon-juice and some 
pounded sugar. 

1383. PANCAKES, A LA CELESTINE. 

Prepare the pancakes as above, and as each is fried, spread some 
apricot-jam upon it, then roll it up, and place it on a baking-sheet in 
the oven ; when a sufficient number is ready, shake some sifted sugar 
over them, glaze them with a red-hot salamander,- and then dish up the 
pancakes on a napkin in close circular order, in double or treble rows, 
and serve them quite hot. 



CHERRY BREAD. 483 

1384. PANCAKES SOUFFLES. 

Prepare some potato-flour souffle-batter (No. 1312) — about half 
the usual quantity will suffice ; make also the usual quantity of pancake- 
batter. Then fry the pancakes, and as they are done, spread them over 
with apricot-jam, and pile them up one upon another in the form of a 
dome, with a thick layer of the souffle-batter in between each pancake. 
When the whole is complete, put them in the oven to bake for about 
half an hour; when done, shake some sugar over the top, and serve 
immediately. 



COMPRISING 




Ginger Pudding. 
Pine Apple „ 
Lemon „ 


Orange 
Bread 


?j 


Rusk 


» 


Apple 
Biscuit 




Plum 


» 


Tapioca 


}y 



PUDDINGS IN GENERAL, 



Brown-bread Pudding, d la Gotha. 

Cherry Bread. 

MtU Prie. 

Kriijtfen, or German Puffs. 

Semolina Puddnig, d la Baden. Bread „ plain. 

Dampfnudeln, or German Dumplings. 

Pudding, d la Coburg. 

„ d hi Fran raise. Biscuit „ d la Prince Albert. 

„ d la \njntoise. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
Chestnut „ 

1385. BROWN-BREAD PUDDING, A LA GOTHA. 

Get ready the following ingredients : — Twelve ounces of brown 
bread-crumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, six eggs, half a pint of 
whipped cream, some grated lemon-rind, a little cinnamon-powder, one 
pound of morello cherries, and a little salt. 

Mix the bread-crumbs, sugar, the yolks of eggs, and whipped cream, 
the lemon, the cinnamon, and the salt, together in a large basin ; then 
add the whipped whites of six eggs, and set this aside. Next, spread 
a plain mould with butter, and strew it with brown bread-crumbs ; then, 
spread a large spoonful of the preparation at the bottom of the mould, 
and arrange a layer of cherries (with the stones left in) upon it; cover 
this with some of the preparation, and upon it place more cherries, and 
so on until the mould is filled. The pudding must now be placed on 
a baking-sheet, and put in the oven (moderately heated), to be baked 
for about an hour ; when done, turn it out of the mould on its dish, 
pour a puree of cherry-sauce round the base, and serve. 

In Saxony, it is customary to eat this kind of pudding as a cake, 
when cold ; in this case it should be entirely covered with sifted sugar, 
mixed with one-fourth part of cinnamon-powder. 

1386. CHERRY BREAD. 

Pick the stalks from two pounds of Kentish-cherries, and pound 
them in a mortar so as to bruise the stones ; they must then be 
placed in a small preserving-pan with about a pint of claret or port- 
wine, and twelve ounces of sugar ; allow this to boil upon the stove- 



484 PUDDINGS. 

fire, remove the scum as it rises, and after the cherries have boiled for 
about ten minutes, rub the whole through a sieve, and then pour it into 
a silver souffle-case. 

While the above part of the entremets is in course of preparation, 
a dozen pieces of crumb of bread, or French rolls, shaped in the form 
of eggs with a sharp knife, should be fried of a light-fawn color, in 
some clarified butter. After these have been drained on a clean cloth, 
place them in close circular rows in the puree of cherries ; shake some 
cinnamon sugar over the surface, set the cherry-bread on a baking-sheet 
in the oven, to simmer slowly for about half an hour, and when done, 
send to table. 

1387. MEHL PRIE. 

Ingredients required :-^Six ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded 
sugar, two sticks of vanilla, a very little salt, a quart of cream, and a 
pint of milk. 

Put the flour, sugar, and salt, into an appropriate-sized stewpan, and 
mix in with these the cream and milk with the vanilla ; then, stir the 
whole with a wooden spoon over a brisk charcoal-fire, until it has boiled 
down to about one-half of its original quantity ; the mehl prie should 
then be withdrawn from the fire, and kept hot by the side of the stove, 
the stewpan containing it being kept covered with its lid. Next, place 
an uutinned baking-sheet on a trivet over a charcoal stove-fire, and 
when it has become too hot for the hand to remain upon it, spread the 
centre over with a thin coating of the mehl prie (which may be done 
with the back of a wooden spoon), and as this becomes browned, it 
will detach itself from the baking-sheet ; it must then be removed, and 
before it has cooled, should be cut or stamped out with a tin-cutter. 
This must be repeated until the process has furnished a plateful of 
crisp chips. When about to send the mehl prie to table, the custard 
pudding should be poured into a souffle-d\sh, and the chips sent up 
separately on a plate ; when served at table, a small ladleful of the 
custard should be first poured on the guest's plate, and then a spoonful 
of the chips placed upon this. 

1388. KRAPFEN, OR GERMAN PUFFS. 

Ingredients required : — One pound of flour, ten ounces of butter, 
six eggs, a gill of cream, one ounce of sugar, one ounce of German 
yeast, a very little salt, with the rind of two oranges rubbed on a piece 
of sugar and the zest then scraped off. 

First, set the sponge, with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, 
in the usual manner, and let it rise in a warm temperature ; meanwhile 
spread the flour out in the form of a ring, and place the sugar, 
salt, butter, eggs, and cream in the centre ; then work the whole 
well together with both hands ; gather it up in a heap towards the 
edge of the slab ; and with the knuckles of both hands bent under, 
rub the paste quickly before you on the slab; then gather it up again 
in a heap by taking up small portions at a time with both hands held 
together, and fling it down on the slab with some force. This must 
be constantly repeated for about five minutes. As soon as the sponge 
has sufficiently risen, let it be added to' the paste, and thoroughly 
incorporated with it. The krapfen -paste should now be gathered up, 
and placed in a clean napkin previously strewn over with flour to 



PUDDING, A LA COBURG. 485 

prevent the paste from adhering to it, and set it in a rather cool place to 
rise : this will require about four hours. The paste must then be 
kneaded on the slab, and after it has been again placed in the cool for 
about half an hour, let it be cut up into about thirty pieces of equal 
size ; knead these in the form of round balls, and place them by half- 
dozens, on separate sheets of paper spread with butter ; the sheets of 
krapfen must now be placed on baking-sheets, and set to rise in a 
warm part of the kitchen : when the krapfen have risen, immerse them 
iu some clean hogs'-lard made quite hot for the purpose, and fry them 
of a light color; as soon as they are done, drain them on a clean cloth, 
shake some cinnamon and orange sugar over them, dish them up in a 
pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve them with some warm apricot- 
jam diluted with a little water or syrup. 

1389. SEMOLINA PUDDING, A LA BADEN. 

Ingredients required : — Twelve ounces of semolina, six ounces of 
pounded sugar, eight ounces of butter, eight eggs, a pint of cream, a 
table-spoonful of orange-flower-water, two ounces of ratafias, and a 
little salt. 

Mix the semolina with the sugar, the orange-flower-water,' half the 
butter, two eggs, the cream, and salt, in a stewpau ; stir this over a 
stove-fire until it boils, then work it perfectly smooth, and keep working 
the paste over the stove-fire until it ceases to adhere to the sides of the 
stewpan ; then, withdraw it from the fire, and gradually mix in the 
remainder of the eggs and butter, and also the bruised ratafias. Next, 
spread the inside of a plain mould with butter, and fill it with the 
preparation of semolina ; put the bottom of the mould in a deep sauta- 
pan, half filled with hot water, and place it in the oven to bake for 
about an hour and a quarter ; when done, turn the pudding out on to 
its dish, pour either a fruit or custard sauce over it, and serve. 

1390. DAMPFNUDELN, OR GERMAN DUMPLINGS. 

These are made with the same kind of paste as the krapfen (No. 
1388), but half the quantity will suffice for this purpose. When the 
fermentation of the paste has properly taken place, let it be laid on 
the pastry-slab, kneaded into a dozen small rolls, and then placed in a 
deep sautapan, about an inch apart from each other : as much warm 
milk must be poured over them, as will suffice to cover their surface, 
and as soon as they have risen to nearly twice their original size, pat 
them in the oven to be baked of a light color; just before withdrawing 
them from the oven, see that the milk is not absorbed by damp/nude In, 
and let them be glazed over with sugar and the red-hot salamander. 
Dish them up on a napkin, and send some vanilla-custard sauce 
separately in a sauce-boat. 

1391. PUDDING, A LA COBURG. 

For this purpose it is necessary to have some ready-baked brioche. 
This should be cut in circular slices, about an inch less in diameter 
than the mould intended to be used for the pudding ; the slices of 
brioche must be placed on a dish, and soaked in maraschino. The 
sides of the mould should be spread with butter, and ornamented with 
dried cherries and candied citron ; and previously to placing the pieces 
of brioche iu the mould, let each of them be spread with apricot-jam ; 



486 PUDDINGS. 

the mould must then be filled up with some vanilla-custard prepared 
for the purpose, part of which must, however, be reserved for the sauce. 
The pudding should be steamed iu the usual way for about an hour 
and a quarter, and when done, turned out on its dish, and the sauce 
poured over it. 

1392. PUDDING/ A LA FRANCAISE. 

Take the following ingredients : — Twelve ounces of chopped mar- 
row, eight ounces of flour, eight ounces of apricot-jam, four ounces of 
chopped apples, six ounces of dried cherries, six ounces of candied 
orange-peel and citron, four ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, 
six cloves (pounded), a tea-spoonful of cinnamon-powder, the zest of 
the rind of two oranges on sugar, five whole eggs, a glass of braudy, a 
little salt, and about half a pint of cream. 

Put the above ingredients into a large basin, and mix them well 
together ; spread a mould with butter, shake a little flour about the 
inside, fill it with the pudding, and after tying it up in a cloth, boil it 
for about four hours, and when done, dish it up with a German custard- 
sauce, made as follows : — 

Put four yolks of eggs into a bain-marie or stewpan, together with 
two ounces of pounded sugar, a glass of Sherry, some orange or lemon 
peel (rubbed on loaf sugar), and a very little salt. Whisk this sharply 
over a very slow fire, until it assumes the appearance of a light frothy 
custard. 

1393. PUDDING, A LA VIENNOISE. 

Ingredients required : — Twelve ounces of brioche, or crumb of 
bread cut up into small dice, two glasses of Madeira, the rind of two 
lemons, two ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter almonds 
pounded, six ounces of sultana raisins, a burnt-sugar custard, made with 
eight yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, two ounces of burnt-sugar, and 
sweetened with six ounces of loaf-sugar. 

Put the brioche, almonds, rind of lemon (rubbed on sugar), and the 
sultanas, into a large basin ; pour the Madeira to this, and when it has 
been absorbed by the brioche, &c, pour as much of the burnt-sugar 
custard on it as will suffice to complete the quantity required to fill the 
mould. Then, spread the inside of the mould with butter, decorate it 
with candied orange-peel, and fill it with the above preparation. This 
pudding must be steamed for about au hour and a half, and when done, 
turned out on its dish, some custard or arrow-root-sauce poured over 
it, and sent to table. 

1394. CABINET PUDDING. 

Spread the inside of a plain mould with butter, and ornament the 
sides with dried cherries and candied citron ; fill the mould with alter- 
nate layers of slices of sponge-cakes and ratafias or macaroons ; then 
fill up the mould with a lemon custard made with eight yolks of eggs, 
a pint of milk or cream, six ounces of sugar, a glass of brandy, and the 
grated rind of a lemon. This custard must not be set, but merely 
mixed up. Steam the pudding in the usual way, for about an hour 
and a half, aud when done, dish it up either with arrow-root-sauce or a 
custard. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 487 

1395. CHESTNUT PUDDING. 

Bake or boil fifty fine chestnuts, rub their pulp through a sieve, and 
place this in a stewpan with a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, 
six ounces of sugar, a pounded stick of vanilla, and a very little salt ; 
stir these ingredients over a stove-fire until the preparation thickens, 
and then quicken the motion of the spoon, so as to prevent the paste 
from adhering to the bottom of the stewpan. As soon as it leaves 
the sides of the stewpan, remove it from the fire, add eight yolks, and 
the whites of six eggs whipped firm ; pour the pudding mixture into 
a plain mould, previously spread with butter, and then steam it for 
about an hour and a half. When the pudding is done, turn it carefully 
out of the mould on its dish, pour some warm diluted apricot-jam over 
it, and serve. 

1396. GINGER PUDDING. 

Ingredients required : — Six ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, six 
eggs, eight ounces of preserved ginger, a pint of cream, six ounces of 
butter, a little salt. 

Put the cream, sugar, butter, and salt into a stewpan on the fire, 
and as soon as these begin to simmer, take off the stewpan, throw in 
the flour, and stir the whole together quickly ; then put this paste 
back again on the fire, and continue stirring it for about five minutes ; 
it must then be withdrawn, and the six eggs mixed in gradually with 
it. The ginger, cut into small pieces, must now be added to the 
preparation, which must then be poured into the mould previously 
spread with butter. Steam it for an hour and a half, and when done, 
dish up the pudding with a custard-sauce made with the syrup from 
the ginger. 

1397. PINE-APPLE PUDDING. 

This is made in the same manner as the above, pine-apple being 
substituted for ginger. 

1398. LEMON PUDDING. 

Ingredients required : — The juice and grated rind (rubbed on 
sugar) of six lemons, a pint of cream, six ounces of bruised ratafias, 
twelve yolks and the whites of four eggs, whipped, half a nutmeg grated, 
a little cinnamon powder, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and a very 
little salt. 

Mix the above altogether in a large basin, and work the ingredients 
together with a whisk for about ten minutes. Next, put a border of 
puff-paste round the edge of a tart dish, spread the dish with butter, 
pour the batter into it, strew some shred pistachio kernels on the top, 
and bake it for about half an hour (at moderate heat). When done, 
shake some sifted sugar over it, and serve. 

1399. ORANGE PUDDING. 

This is made as the above; double the quantity of oranges may be 
used for this purpose, owing to their not containing so much acid as 
lemons ; but the rind of three will suffice for the zest. 



488 PUDDINGS. 

1400. BREAD PUDDING, PLAIN. 

Ingredients : — Twelve ounces of bread-crumbs, six ounces of sugar, 
two ounces of butter, a pint of milk, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a 
piece of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and two whites whipped, and a little 
salt. 

Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, butter, lemon- 
sugar, and salt ; then pour in the milk boiling, cover up the whole, 
and leave it to steep for about ten minutes ; the eggs may then be 
added, and after the whole has been well mixed together, pour the 
preparation into a mould, or pudding basin, previously spread with 
butter. Steam the pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish 
it up with some arrow-root sauce made as follows : Mix a dessert- 
spoonful of arrow-root with twice that quantity of sugar, half the 
juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and a gill of water, and stir this over 
the fire until it boils. 

1401. RUSK PUDDING. 

Ingredients : — A dozen rusks, a plain custard of six eggs, a pint 
of cream, six ounces of sugar, a glass of maraschino, a little salt, and 
lour ounces of dried cherries. 

Spread a plain mould with butter, arrange the cherries round the 
sides and bottom, dip the rusks in the custard, and place them in the 
mould with a layer of raspberry-jam between each layer of rusks ; fill 
up the mould with the custard, and steam the pudding in the usual 
manner. When done, dish it up with a German custard-sauce 
(No. 1392). 

1402. APPB/E PUDDING. 

Peel two dozen grey russets, remove the cores, and cut them up in 
slices ; then put the apples into a deep sautapan with four ounces of 
butter, the rind of two lemons, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and 
one pound of apricot-jam ; toss the whole over a slow stove-fire until 
the apples begin to dissolve, and then set them aside to cool. Next, 
line a good-sized pudding basin with some light-made suet paste, fill 
this with the prepared apples, place a covering of paste on the top, 
fasten it down securely, and then steam it in the usual manner for about 
two hours. When the pudding is done, dish it up, pour some warm 
apricot jam over it, and serve. 

1403. BISCUIT PUDDING, A LA PRINCE ALBERT. 

Ingredients : — Twelve ounces of crumbled Savoy cake, a pint of 
cream, the yolks of six eggs and the whipped whites of two, the rind 
of a lemon rubbed on sugar, four ounces of pounded sugar, and a little 
salt. 

Pour the pint of cream (boiling) on to the crumbled Savoy cake 
and let it steep for a fqw minutes: then add the sugar, the eggs, the 
lemon-sugar, and the salt; mix the whole lightly together, pour the 
preparation into a mould spread with butter, and steam the pudding 
for about an hour and a quarter. When done, dish it up with a puree 
of currants and raspberries for the sauce, or else serve a custard-sauce 
over it. 



FONDU OF PARMESAN CHEESE. 489 

1401. PLUM PUDDING. 

Ingredients: — Three-quarters of a pound of raisins, three-quarters 
of a pound of currants,, half a pound of candied orange, lemon, and 
citron, one pound and a quarter of chopped beef suet, one pound of 
flour, three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, four eggs, about three 
gills of milk, the grated rind of two lemons, half an ounce of nutmeg, 
cinnamon, and cloves (in powder), a glass of brandy, and a very little 
salt. 

Mix the above ingredients thoroughly together in a large basin 
several hours before the pudding is to be boiled ; pour them into a 
mould spread with butter, which should be tied up in a cloth. The 
pudding must then be boiled for four hours and a half; when done, 
dish it up with a German custard-sauce spread over it (No. 1392). 

1405. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Ingredients. — Ten ounces of tapioca, a quart of milk, six ounces 
of sugar, six yolks of eggs ami two whipped whites, the grated rind of 
a lemon, two ounces of butter, and a little salt. 

Put the tapioca, sugar, butter, salt, grated lemon, and the milk 
into a stewpan, stir this over the lire until it boils; then cover the 
stewpan with its lid, and set it on a very slow stove-fire (partially 
smothered with ashes), to continue gently simmering for a quarter of 
an hour. The tapioca should then be withdrawn from the lire, and 
after the six yolks and the two whipped whites of eggs have been 
thoroughly incorporated in it, pour the preparation into a mould or 
pudding basin previously spread with butter; steam the pudding for 
about an hour and a half, and when done, dish it up with either a plain 
arrow-root or custard-sauce over it. 

Sago or semolina may be prepared in the same manner. 

Note- — In addition to the foregoing, puddings may also be made 
with every kind of preparation described for making timbah'n or cakes 
of rice, vermicelli, niaccaroni, nouilh's, Sec. These may be either 
steamed in a mould or pudding-basin, or baked in a pie-dish. 

1406. FONDU OF PAKMESAN CHEESE. 

Ingredients : — Twelve ounces of fresh Parmesan cheese grated, 
four ounces of Hour, twelve eggs, four ounces of butter, a pint of milk 
or cream, a pinch of mignionette-pepper, ami a very little salt. 

.Mix the (lour, butter, pepper and salt, well together with the milk, 
and then stir this over the fire until it boils; work the batter quickly 
wi;h the spoon to render it perfectly smooth, then add the grated 
cheese and the twelve yolks of eggs; whip the whites quite firm, and 
add them also, very lightly. Fill the mujjlb case with the foiuhi, 
bake it for about three-quarters of an hour, and send it to table as 
soon as it is ready. 

Note. — Half the quantity of Gruyorc with the other half of Parme- 
san cheese is sometimes used. It is also customary to season fundus 
with mustard, lemon-juice, Cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies, 
for those who prefer high seasoning to the more delicate flavor of the 
Parmesan cheese : the latter is most likely to be approved of by a true 
epicure. 



490 



JELLIES, 

COMPRISING 

Calf's-foot Jelly, with Wine. Currant and Raspberry Jelly. 

Clarification of Calf's-foot Jelly, for gen- Strawberry Jelly. 

eral purposes. Cherry Jelly. 

Orange Jelly, made with Calf's-foot Stock. Mulberry Jelly. 

Clarified Syrup, for Jellies. Macedoine of Fruits. 

To clarify Isinglass. Orange Jelly, garnished with quarters of 
Preparation of Paper for filtering Orange Oranges. 

or Lemon Juice for Jellies. Maraschino Jelly. 

Orange Jelly, d I'Anglaise. Variegated Jelly, d la Victoria. 

Lemon Jelly, d I'Auylaise. Pauac/iee Jelly. 

Orange Jelly, d la Fran^-aiie. Russian Jelly. 

Pomegranate Jelly. Punch Jelly. 

Pine Apple Jelly. Oranges filled with transparent Jelly. 

1407. calf's-foot jelly, with wine. 

Split four calf's feet, break up the bones, and put the whole into a 
gallon-sized stewpan or stock-pot; then fill it up with cold water, and 
set it on the fire to boil ; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, 
and when the stock has been thoroughly skimmed, set it down by the 
side of the fire, to continue gently boiling for about five hours. The 
stock must then be strained off through a sieve into a basin or pan, 
and set aside in a cool place until it has become firm. The grease 
should be scraped off the surface with a spoon, and a little boiling 
water thrown over it, in order toVash away any that may remain ; it 
should then be wiped with a clean cloth and put into a stewpan to melt 
over the fire. Next, add two pounds of loaf sugar, a pint of sherry, 
two glasses of brandy, twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of 
four lemons peeled very thin, and without any of the pith, as this is 
bitter ; then pour in the whites of six eggs and two whole eggs whip- 
ped up with a little cold water and the bruised shells ; whip this well 
together over the fire, and when it is near boiling, throw in the juice 
of eight lemons, stir the jelly with the whisk for a minute or so, and 
then set the stewpan down by the side of the fire ; put on the lid with 
some live embers upon it, and allow the jelly to stand by the side of 
the stove-fire for a quarter of an hour longer, to set the eggs. Next, 
throw the jelly into a jelly-bag, fixed on a stand, ready with a basin 
placed under, to receive it as it passes through the bag ; continue 
pouring the jelly back again through the bag several times, until it 
runs quite bright and clear ; then cover over the stand with a cloth, 
and leave the jelly to run until the whole is passed. 

This kind of jelly may either be served in glasses, or set in moulds 
imbedded in rough ice : when it has become quite firm, dip the mould 
in hot water, wipe it, aud theu turu the jelly out carefully on its dish. 

1408. CLARIFICATION OF CALF'S-FOOT JELLY, FOR GENERAL 

PURPOSES. 

Put the prepared stock of four calf's feet into a 'stewpan with two 
pounds of sugar, the rind of four lemons, and the juice of eight j whip 



JELLIES. 491 

six whites and two whole eggs together, with half a pint of spring- 
water ; throw this in with the stock, and whisk the whole together 
over the stove-fire, until it is on the point of boiling, then add the juice 
of another lemon and a little spring- water ; withdraw the jelly from 
the stove, and set it down by the side, to continue gently simmering 
for about ten minutes longer, covered with the stewpan lid containing 
some live embers of charcoal. The jelly may then be passed through 
the bag in the usual way, and when it has run through perfectly bright, 
let it be kept in a cool place to be used as occasion may require. 

This kind of fouudation or stock-jelly, prepared without any decided 
flavor, may be used for making all kinds of jellies ; it will then only be 
necessary to add, to the quantity required to fill a mould, a gill and a 
half of any kind of liqueur, and if the jelly be too stiff, a little thin 
syrup may also be added. It may be used likewise for making fruit 
jellies, with the addition of a pint of the filtered juice of currants, 
raspberries, cherries, or strawberries, or half a pint of the clarified in- 
fusion syrup of peaches, apricots, or pine-apples. 

1409. ORANGE JELLY, MADE WITH CALF'S-FOOT STOCK. 

To the stock produced from four calf's feet, add two pounds of loaf- 
sugar, the juice of six lemons and a dozen oranges, and the rind of 
eight oranges ; put the stewpan on the fire to melt the stock, and then 
pour in the whipped whites of eggs, and continue whisking the jelly on 
the stove-fire until it begins to simmer; it must then be set down by 
the side of the stove-fire, covered with the stewpan lid, and allowed to 
continue simmering until the egg is set ; the jelly must then be passed 
through the bag in the usual way, and just before putting it into the mould, 
a few drops of prepared cochineal should be added to give it an orange- 
pink tinge. 

Note. — Lemon jelly is prepared in the same way as the above, sub- 
stituting lemons for oranges. 

1410. CLARIFIED SYRUP, FOR JELLIES. 

To every pound of the finest loaf sugar, whatever quantity may be 
required, add rather more than a pint of spring-water ; and when the 
sugar is dissolved, add half the white of an egg whipped up with a 
little water ; whisk the whole well together, set the stewpan on the 
stove-fire, and as soon as the syrup begins to boil, set it down by the 
side of the fire to continue gently boiling, until it has thrown up all 
the scum ; remove this as it rises to the surface, and then strain the 
syrup through a napkin into a basin, and keep it in a cool place for 
use. 

1411. TO CLARIFY ISINGLASS. 

First wash the isinglass in cold water, to free it from the dust that 
is apt to gather about it ; then put it into a stewpan, and to every two 
ounces add half a pint of spring-water, and about one ounce of sugar; 
stir this on the stove-fire till it boils, then throw in the juice of half a 
lemon, and set the stewpan by the side of the stove, to continue gently 
boiling for about ten minutes, in order to dissolve the shreds of isin- 
glass, and that it may thereby throw up all the scum, which should be 



492 JELLIES. 

removed as it rises to the surface ; the isinglass may then be strained 
through a napkin into a basin, and used for the required purpose. 

Isinglass may also be clarified by adding a very small quantity of 
whipped white of egg, after it has been dissolved in water as directed 
above, and then allowed to cool previously to mixing in the white of 
egg ; it must then be allowed to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire, 
and when perfectly cleared of all the scum, should be strained through 
a napkin. 

Note. — There are several kinds of gelatine in use, which serve the 
same purpose as isinglass, with more or less success ; all these may be 
clarified in the same way as the above. 

1412. PREPARATION OF PAPER FOR FILTERING ORANGE 
OR LEMON-JUICE, FOR JELLIES. 

Wash several sheets of white blotting-paper (of the best quality) in 
cold water ; then boil them in two quarts, of water for about twenty 
minutes, strain the water from the paper, and pound it in a mortar un- 
til reduced to a fine pulp ; mix this with a spoonful of washed white 
sand, then add both to the juice intended to be filtered, and throw the 
whole into a clean beaver jelly-bag. Pass the juice through the filter- 
ing bag until it drops as bright as spring-water. 

1413. ORANGE JELLY, A L'ANGLAISE. 

Rub the rind of six oranges upon twelve ounces of the best loaf 
sugar, and put this into a basin ; then squeeze the juice from a dozen 
ripe oranges and four lemons, and add this to the sugar. Next, clarify 
two ounces of isinglass as directed in No. 1411, and mix this with the 
juice and sugar in a sugar-boiler, add six dro4>s of prepared cochineal, 
and stir the whole over the stove-fire till the jelly becomes tepid ; then 
strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin, and when it has become 
quite cold, and is commencing to congeal on the surface and sides of 
the basin, stir it well together, and pour it into a mould previously im- 
bedded in rough ice. When the jelly is set firm, dip the mould in 
rather warm water, wipe it with a cloth, and turn it out carefully on 
its dish. 

1414. LEMON JELLY, A L'ANGLAISE. 

This is prepared in the same way as the above, substituting lemons 
for oranges; it will be necessary, however, to add four ounces of sugar 
on account of the acidity of the lemons. 

1415. ORANGE JELLY, A LA FRANCAISE. 

Peel off the rind from six oranges, as thin as possible, and put it 
into a pint basin. Then clarify one pound of the finest loaf-sugar 
with a pint of spring-water and half the white of an egg, and strain it 
through a napkin on to the rind; cover the basin down with a sheet 
of paper twisted tightly round the edges, to prevent the volatile es- 
sence of the essential oil contained in the rind from escaping. Extract 
the juice from twelve oranges and four lemons (by pressure) into a 
basin, remove the pips, and filter the juice as directed in No. 1412; 
this being done, strain the infusion syrup through a napkin into a 
basin, add the filtered juice, two ounces of clarified isinglass and six 



JELLIES. 49S 

drops of prepared cochineal ; stir these together, and then pour the 
jelly into t lie mould previously imbedded in rough ice. 

Note. — Lemon jelly a la Fran raise is prepared in the same manner 
as the foregoing, except that the cochineal must be omitted, and four 
ounces of sugar added to qualify the acidity of the lemons. 

141 G. POMEGRANATE JELLY. 

Extract the bright pips from six ripe pomegranates, bruise these 
in a basin, with one pound of roughly-pounded sugar, add thereto a 
"ill of spring-water, and then filter the preparation through a beaver 
jelly-bag, without the aid of paper pulp, in order to preserve the deli- 
cate flavor of the fruit : when either paper or sand is made use of for 
the purpose of filtering the juice of any kind of delicate flavored fruit, 
although the juice is rendered brighter, it certainly loses much of its 
original flavor. 

The filtered juice of the pomegranates must then be mixed with two 
ounces of clarified isinglass, six drops of cochineal, and, if necessary to 
make out the quantity of jelly required to fill the mould, some thin 
clarified syrup may be added. Set a jelly mould in a basin of rough 
ice, and fill the mould with alternate layers of jelly and the bright pips 
of t his fruit. 

Note. — A glass of noyeau or maraschino maybe added, if approved of. 

1417. PINE-APPLE JELLY. 

Peel a pine-apple of about one pound weight, cut it into slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and put these into a basin. Clarify 
one pound of loaf-sugar with a pint of spring-water, the juice of two 
lemons, and half the white of an eg>>- whipped with a. little water; 
when thoroughly skimmed, strain the syrup on to the pine-apple, allow 
it in boil for three minutes, then cover it down with a sheet of paper 
twisted round the basin, and allow the infusion to stand for several 
hours, in order to extract the flavor. When about to mix the jelly, 
strain tin' syrup through a napkin into a basin, and put the pieces of 
pine-apple to drain upon a sieve; add two ounces of clarified isinglass 
to the pine-apple syrup, and then pour the jelly into a mould previously 
imbedded in rough ice. 

1418. CURRANT AXD RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Pjok the stalks from one quart of red currants and a pottle of rasp- 
berries, then put these into a large basin with half a pound of pounded 
sugar and a gill of spring-water ; bruise them thoroughly, by squeezing 
them with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon against the 
sides of the basin, then throw the whole into a beaver jelly-bag, and 
filter the juice, pouring it back into the bag until it runs through per- 
fectly bright ; next, add half a pint of clarified syrup, and two ounces 
of clarified isinglass to the juice, and pour the jellv into a mould placed 
in rough ice to receive it. 

Note. — This kind of jelly serves for the foundation of several others : 
for instance, it may be garnished with a Marf'iloine of fruits, with white 
raspberries, with currants, strawberries, peaches, or cherries ; either 



494 JELLIES. 

of these fruits, when mixed with currant and raspberry jelly, prepared 
according to the foregoing directions, will make it most delicious. 

1419. STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Pick the stalks from two pottles of scarlet strawberries, put these 
into a basin, and then pour one pint of clarified boiling syrup and 
half a pint of red-currant juice on to them ; cover them down with a 
sheet of paper, tightly twisted round the edges of the basin, and allow 
the infusion to stand in a cool place until it becomes cold ; then, 
filter it through a beaver jelly bag in the usual way, and when the 
whole has run through perfectly bright, mix it with two ounces of 
clarified isinglass, and set the jelly in a mould, immersed in rough 
ice. 

Note. — This jelly should be garnished with a pottle of fine "British 
Queen" strawberries. 

1420. CHERRY JELLY. 

Pick the stalks from two pounds of Kentish cherries and a handful 
of red currants, and pound them in the mortar in order to bruise the 
stones and kernels ; then take them up and place them in a small pre- 
serving pan, with one pound of fine loaf sugar and half a pint of spring- 
water ; set this to boil on the stove-fire for about five minutes, taking 
care to remove the scum as it rises to the surface: the whole must 
then be poured into a beaver jelly-bag, and filtered in the usual way. 
The juice should next be mixed with two ounces of clarified isinglass, 
and poured into a mould imbedded in rough ice. The jelly may be 
garnished with cherries from which the stones must be removed. 

1421. MULBERRY JELLY. 
This is prepared in the same way as strawberry jelly (No. 1419). 

1422. MACEDOINE OF FRUITS. 

Tins may be made with every kind of jelly, which should be mixed 
with a variety of the most delicate fruits in season : these should be 
arranged with taste, so as to show their forms and colors to the best 
advantage. The fruits most appropriate for this purpose are peaches, 
nectarines, apricots, all kinds of plums, strawberries, raspberries, mul- 
berries, red, white, and black currants, cherries, pears, oranges, pome- 
granates, grapes, &c. 

1423. ORANGE JELLY, GARNISHED WITH QUARTERS OF ORANGES. 

Peel six oranges with a sharp knife, leaving the transparent pulp 
quite bare ; divide each into six, cutting the orange lengthwise, tons 
giving an angular form to the pieces; put these into a small preserving 
pan, with a pint of clarified syrup, and set the whole to boil on the 
stove-fire for not more than two minutes, then pour the pieces of 
oranges and their syrup into a basin, and set them aside in a cool 
place. Prepare about a pint of bright orange jelly in the manner 
directed in No. 1412, using the syrup from the pieces of oram_ r >'s. 
which must be drained upon a sieve for that purpose. Next, imbed 
a plain mould in some pounded rough ice contained in an earthen 
pan, and proceed to garnish it with the pieces of oranges and the jelly. 



JELLIES. 495 

first pouring a little jelly on the bottom of the mould, then, when the 
jelly is set, arrange a layer of the pieces of oranges upon it in close 
circular order, one resting upon another; pour sufficient jelly upon 
these to reach their surface, and when this has become firm, place 
another layer of oranges upon it, and so on, until the mould is filled. 

1424. MARASCHINO JELLY. 

To one pint of clarified syrup, add two ounces of clarified isinglass, 
the filtered juice of two lemons, and a gill and a half of genuine mara- 
schino ; pour this into a jelly-mould ready set in rough ice. 

Note. — Jellies flavored with noyeau, kirschen-wasser, Dantzic brandy, 
cedratti, and all kinds of liqueurs, when made with isinglass, are pre- 
pared as the above. 

1425. VARIEGATED JELLY, A LA VICTORIA. 

Prepare some jelly, with Dantzic brandy (sometimes named "gold- 
and-silver-water"). Parboil and remove the skin from six ounces 
of pistachios, and shred each kernel into six strips. Set a jelly-mould 
in some pounded rough ice contained in a pan, pour a little of the 
jelly into the bottom of the mould, and then strew some of the pre- 
pared pistachios in it; when this has become firm, pour in a little 
more of the jelly and strew a few of the pistachios in it ; as these 
layers become set, repeat the same until the mould is filled, and allow 
the jelly to remain imbedded in the ice for a sufficieut time to congeal 
it properly. 

1426. PANACHEE* JELLY. 

This may be prepared with any kind of light-colored jelly, which 
must be divided into two equal parts : add a few drops of cochineal to 
one-half, and leave the remainder plain. Then, imbed the mould in 
rough ice, pour enough of the pink jelly into the mould to reach 
about a quarter of an inch up the sides, and when this has become 
set, pour as much of the plain jelly upon it ; when this has congealed, 
repeat another layer of the pink jelly, and go on alternating the dif- 
erent colored layers of jelly until the mould is filled. 

The design for this kind of jelly may be varied according to taste, 
by attending to the following directions : — 

Fill two small plain moulds with different colored jelly, such as 
pink and white noyeau, or amber and very light pink-orange jelly, and 
when these are become firm, turn the jellies out of their respective 
moulds upon a clean napkin. Next, imbed a plain mould in some 
rough ice, and then cut the different colored jellies into strips, or 
any kind of fancy shaped ornaments, which must be so managed as to 
admit of their being fitted into each other, thus entirely covering the 
bottom of the mould with the design so formed ; a little of the jelly 
must first be poured at the bottom of the mould, to cause the decoration 
to adhere together. The sides of the mould should then be ornamented 
by placing alternate strips of the different jellies in a perpendicular 

* Derived from another French word, panache, a plume — a grnceful feather. This 
jelly first received its name at the period of the first French Revolution, when it was 
customary for the representatives of the French people to wear a tri-oolore 1 plume in 
their hats. 



496 RUSSIAN JELLIES. 

position, and these must first be (lipped in a little liquid jelly. The 
mould being lined according to the foregoing directions, the hollow 
may be filled up with either a Macedoine jelly of fruits, with any kind 
of cream, or with the remainder of the same, so arranged in it as to 
have the appearance of marble when cut. 

1427. RUSSIAN JELLY. 

Put about two-thirds of either of the fore-mentioned kinds of jelly 
into a basin, partially imbedded in rough ice, then whip the jelly with 
a whisk, until it assumes the appearance of a substantial froth, and 
begins to thicken ; it must then be immediately poured into a mould, 
and kept in ice until required to be served. 

1428. PUNCH JELLY. 

Put the prepared stock from four calves'-feet into a stewpan, to 
melt on the stove-fire; then withdraw it, and add thereto the follow- 
ing ingredients : — Two pounds of loaf-sugar, the juice of six lemons 
and four oranges, the rind of one Seville orange and of four lemons, 
half a nutmeg, twelve cloves, and two sticks of cinnamon, a small cup 
of strong green tea, a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, and a glass 
of arrack. Stir these well together, then add six whites and two 
whole eggs whipped up with a little Sherry and spring-water, and 
continue whisking the punch on a brisk-stove-fire until it begins to 
simmer, then set it down by the side of the fire, and cover the stew- 
pan with its lid containing some live embers of charcoal ; about ten 
minutes after, pour the jelly into a flannel or beaver filtering-bag, 
keep pouring the jelly back into the bag until it becomes quite clear 
and bright, and when the whole has run through, set it in a mould in 
ice in the usual way. 

1429. ORANGES FILLED WITH TRANSPARENT JELLY. 

Select half a dozen oranges without specks on the rind, make a 
hole at the stalk-end with a circular tin cutter, about half an inch in 
diameter, and then use a small teaspoon to remove all the pulp and 
loose pith from the interior ; when this is effected, soak the oranges 
in cold water for about an hour, then introduce the spoon through 
the aperture, and scrape the insides smooth, and after rincing them 
again in cold water, set them to drain on a cloth. Next, stop up any 
holes that may have been made in them while scooping out the pulp, 
and set the oranges in some pounded rough ice contained in a deep 
sautapan ; fill three of them with bright pink-orange-jelly, and the 
remainder with plain jelly. "When the jelly has become firm, wipe 
the oranges with a clean cloth, cut each into four quarters, dish them 
up tastefully on an ornamental pastry-stand, or uoon a napkin, and 
send to table. 

Note. — ^Lemons may be prepared in the same way as the above. 

1429a. LEMONS FILLED WITH JELLY A LA BELLEVUE. 

These are to be prepared in this instance as directed in the 
preceding article; and are afterwards to be filled with alternate 
layers of lemon-jelly and Blanc-manger. Cut them up in the same 
way as oranges. 



49' 



CREAMS, 



COMPRISING 



Blane-31 anger. 

Maraschino .Bavarian Cream. 

Strawberry ditto. 

Apricot ditto. 

Coffee Cream. 

Chocolate ditto. 

Burnt ditto. 

Orange-flower ditto. 



Pistachio Crenm. 

Italian ditto. 

Russian Charlotte. 

Orient! in Strawberry Cream. 

Currant and Raspberry transparent 

( 'lieese. 
Apricot Cheese, a la Cliantilli/. 



1480. BLANC-MANGER. 

Parboil twelve ounces of Jordan, and two ounces of 'titter 
almonds, in a quart of water for about two minutes; drain them on ;i 
sieve, remove the skins, and wash them in cold water; after they have 
been soaked in cold water for half an hour, pound them in a mortar 
with four ounces of sugar, until the whole presents the appearance of 
a soft [taste. This must then be placed in a large basin, with twelve 
dunces of loaf sugar, and mixed with rather more than a pint of spring- 
water ; cover the basin with a sheet of paper, twisted round tiie edges, 
and allow the preparation to stand in a cool place for about an hour, 
in order to extract the flavor of the almonds more effectually. The 
milk should then be strained off from the almonds through a napkin, 
with pressure, by wringing it at both ends. Add two ounces of clari- 
fied isinglass to the milk of almonds, pour the blanc-manger into a 
mould imbedded in rough ice, and when set quite firm, turn it out on 
its dish with caution, after having fust dipped the mould in warm 
water. 

1431. MARASCHINO BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Whit a pint of double cream, until it presents somewhat of the 
appearance of snow, taking care not to overdo it, as it would then 
produce butter. When the cream is whipped, add one ounce and a 
half of clarified isinglass, a gill and a half of genuine maraschino, the 
juice of a lemon, and four ounces of pounded sugar ; mix these well 
together and pour the cream into a mould, previously very slightly 
oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds; set the cream in rough ice, and 
when it has become firm, turn it out on its dish. The mould having 
been oiled prevents the necessity of dipping this delicate cream in 
warm water, previously to turning it out. 

This kind of cream may also be flavored with all kinds of liqueurs; 
also with the essences of orange, lemon, orange-flowers, vanilla, roses 
and bitter almonds. 



1432. STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Pick the stalks from a pottle of scarlet strawberries, and bruise them 
in a basin with six ounces of pounded sugar ; rub this through a 
sieve, and mix it with a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a 
31 



498 CREAMS. 

half of clarified isinglass ; pour the cream into a mould, previously 
oiled with oil of sweet almonds, set it iu rough ice, and when it has 
become firm, turn it out on its dish. 

Note. — Raspberries, mulberries, currants and raspberries may be 
prepared for making Bavarian creams, by following the above 
directions. 

1433. APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Split a dozen ripe apricots, and remove the stones ; place the 
pieces in a small preserving-pan, with twelve ounces of pounded sugar, 
and a gill of spring water, then stir them on the fire and let them 
boil until the fruit is entirely dissolved ; this puree must then be 
rubbed through a clean hair-sieve into a large basin, and mixed with 
a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isin- 
glass ; pour the cream into an oiled mould, and set it in rough ice, in 
the usual way. 

This sort of cream may be prepared with all kinds of plums, instead 
of apricots. 

1434. COFFEE CREAM. 

Roast eight ounces of Mocha coffee-berries in a small preserving- 
pan over a stove-fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon, 
until it assumes a light-brown color; then blow away the small 
burnt particles, and throw the roasted coffee into a stew-pan contain- 
ing a pint of boiling milk or cream, put the lid on the stewpan, and 
set it aside to allow the infusion to draw out the flavor of the coffee. 
Xext strain this through a napkin into a stewpan containing eight 
yolks of eggs and twelve ounces of sugar, add a very small pinch of 
salt, stir the cream over the stove-fire until it begins to thicken, then 
quicken the motions of the spoon, and when the yolks of eggs are 
sufficiently set, strain the cream through a tammy or sieve into a large 
basin. Mix half a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a half 
of clarified isinglass in with this, pour the whole into a mould ready 
set in rough ice for the purpose, and when the cream has become 
firm, dip the mould in warm water, and turn the cream out on its 
dish. 

1435. chocolate cream. • 

Grate eight ounces of vanilla chocolate, put this into a stewpan 
with eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks of eggs, and a pint of cream ; 
stir the whole over a stove-fire until the preparation begins to thicken ; 
and the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set without allowing them to 
curdle, strain them through a tammy, with pressure, into a basin ; 
add half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified 
isinglass, mix the whole well together, and pour it into a mould pre- 
viously imbedded in rough ice, to receive it. 

1436. BURNT CREAM. 

Put two ounces of pounded sugar into a stewpan, with the grated 
rind of two lemons; stir these- with a wooden spoon over a slow fire, 
until the sugar begins to assume a rather light-brown color ; then 
pour in a pint of cream, add to this eight ounces of sugar, eight yolks 
of eggs, and a little salt, and stir the whole over a stove-fire until the 



CREAMS. 499 

eggs are set; then strain the cream through a tammy into a large basin, 
and mix in with it half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a 
half of clarified isinglass. Pour the cream into a mould imbedded in 
rough ice. 

1437. ORANGE-FLOWER CREAM. 

Put two ounces of candied orange-flowers into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of pounded sugar ; stir these over a slow fire until the sugar is 
merely melted, and pour in a pint of cream, adding eight ounces of 
sugar, eight yolks of eggs, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and 
a very little salt ; stir this preparation over the fire to set the yolks of 
eggs, and then strain the cream through a tammy into a basin ; add 
half a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a half of clarified 
isinglass to it, mix well together, and then pour the cream into a mould 
imbedded in rough ice. 

Note. — The flavoring of this kind of cream may be varied according 
to taste, by substituting lemon, orange, vanilla, cinnamon and lemon, 
or any other kind of essence or liqueur, for the foregoing. 

1438. PISTACHIO CREAM. 

Parboil eight ounces of pistachio kernels for two minutes in boiling 
water ; then remove the skin, wash and wipe the kernels, and pound 
them in a mortar with six ounces of sugar and a dessert-spoonful of 
orange-flower water ; rub the whole through a fine hair-sieve, and place 
it in a large basin. Add to the pounded pistachios a spoonful of the 
green extract of spinach (No. 285), a pint of whipped cream, and one 
ounce and a half of clarified isinglass ; mix well together, pour the 
cream into an oiled mould, and then set it in ice iu the usual way. 

1439. ITALIAN CREAM. 

Pjjt eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan with four ounces of ratafias, 
eight ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a small stick of 
cinnamon, a wine-glassful of Curasao, and a pint of cream ; stir this 
over a stove-fire, in order to set the yolks of eggs in it, and then strain 
it through a tammy into a basin. Add thereto half a pint of whipped 
cream, and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, and after having 
well mixed the whole together, pour it into a mould ready imbedded 
in rough ice to receive it. 

1440. RUSSIAN CHARLOTTE. 

Trim about six ounces of finger-biscuits perfectly straight, so as to 
make them fit closely to one another, and line the bottom and sides of 
a plain mould with these ; then fill the interior of the charlotte with 
any one of the foregoing creams. The same kinds of fruit as are used 
for making a Macedoine jelly may be introduced in the cream. 

1441. CELESTINA STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Imbed a jelly-mould, or plain charlotte-m ould, in some rough ice 
contained in an earthen pan ; line the bottom and sides of the mould, 
with picked strawberries ; which must first be dipped in some perfectly- 
cold liquid jelly ; then fill the interior of this kind of charlotte with 
some strawberry-cream, prepared for the purpose. 



500 APRICOT CHEESE. 

1441«. CREAM A LA ROMAINE. 

Blanch four ounces of Jordan almonds with one ounce of bitter 
almonds, and when freed from their hulls, washed and wiped dry, let 
them be chopped rather fine. Next, place them in a sugar-boiler and 
stir them over a stove-fire with a wooden spoon until they have acquired 
a very light-brown color ; these almonds should now be thrown into a 
pint of milk that has been kept boiling for the purpose ; to this add 
six ounces of sugar and eight yolks of eggs, and stir the whole quickly 
over the fire until the yolks are set ; when the cream must be imme- 
diately removed from the fire, and stirred for a few minutes longer, pre- 
viously to its being rubbed through a tammy like a puree. The produce 
will present a light fawn-colored thick cream ; this must be mixed first, 
with rather better than an ounce of clarified isinglass, and then, three 
gills of whipped cream are to be lightly yet well incorporated. Pour 
the cream into a mould, and set it iu ice as usual. 

14415. CREAM A LA CHATEAUBRIAND. 

Set a jelly-mould in ice, and then proceed to ornament the bottom 
and sides with blanched almonds that have been split and well soaked 
to whiten them, each being first dipped in some rather strong and per- 
fectly colorless jelly, previously to its being stuck to the sides of the 
mould. When the mould is thus ornamented, pour some of the same 
jelly into it, and by gently and gradually moving the mould round 
(side-ways) in the ice, cause the jelly to form' a thin coating over the 
almonds. When the latter part of the process is satisfactorily effected, 
proceed to effect another coating about the third of an inch thick, with 
some pistachio cream (No. 1438) ; and when this is firmly set, fill up 
the cavity with some cream a la Romaine (No. 1441a). 

Note. — An infinite variety of creams, usually designated "en 
surprise,'''' may be thus produced by using two different preparations 
of different creams, such as currant and orange-flower, apricot and 
vauilla, peach and noyeau, chocolate and white coffee, &c. 

1442. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY TRANSPARENT CHEESE. 

Pick the stalks from a quart of ripe red currants and a pottle of 
raspberries ; put these into a small preserving-pan with one pound of 
pounded sugar and a gill of water ; stir the whole on a stove-fire and 
keep it boiling for about five minutes ; remove the scum as it rises to 
the surface, and then rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a large 
basin ; add two ounces of clarified isinglass, and then pour it into a 
jelly-mould, ready imbedded in rough ice to receive it. When this 
kind of cheese is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and 
turn the cheese out on its dish ; fill the well or cylinder with som<i 
stiffly-whipped cream, and serve. 

1443. APRICOT CHEESE, A LA CHANTILLY. 

Remove the stones from eighteen ripe apricots, and put them into 
a small preserving-pan with one pound of loaf sugar, and a gill of 
spring water; stir this on a brisk stove-fire, until the whole of the 



MINCE-MEAT. 501 

fruit is entirely dissolved ; and then rub it through a hair-sieve into a 
large basin ; add two ounces of clarified isinglass, and fill a jelly-raould 
(ready imbedded in rough ice) with the preparation. When the cheese 
is set firm, turn it out on its dish, and fill the centre with whipped 
cream. 

Note. — These cheeses may be made of every kind of fruit before 
directed to be used for both jellies and creams ; and also with pears, 
apples, and quinces. 



1444. MINCE-MEAT. 



Thoroughly cleanse four pounds of currants, and remove the stones 
from four pounds of raisins ; cut up two pounds of candied citron, 
one pound of candied lemon, and one pound of orange-peel, into 
shreds, or very small dice; remove the skin, and then chop four 
pounds of fresh beef-suet, and place this with the currants and the 
candied peel in an earthen pan ; next chop the raisius with four 
pounds of peeled apples, and add them to the other ingredients. 
Trim away all the sinewy parts from eight pounds of roasted sirloin 
of beef, and chop all the lean of the meat quite fine ; this will pro- 
duce about four pounds, which must also be placed in the pan. To 
the foregoing must now be added four pounds of moist sugar, four 
ounces of ground spice — consisting of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon 
in equal proportions, with the grated rind of twelve oranges, and of the 
same number of lemons ; the whole must then be thoroughly mixed 
together, and pressed down to a level in the pan. Two bottles of 
brandy, and a like quantity of Madeira, sherry or port, should be 
poured into the mince-meat. Put the lid on the pan, place a cloth 
over it, and tie it down close, so as to exclude the air as much as pos- 
sible, and also to prevent the evaporation of the brandy, &c. The 
mince-meat should be kept in a cool place, and will be fit for use a 
fortnight after it is made. 

1445. LEMON MINCE-MEAT. 

Boil four lemons till quite tender, then pound them in a mortar or 
chop them up while warm, adding to them two pounds of pounded 
loaf sugar; let this stand till next day, then add two pounds of suet, 
two pounds of currants, one pound of raisins chopped, a little brandy, 
one ounce of mixed spice, and port wine, to taste, say half a pint of 
brandy and wine together. 

1446. MINCE MEAT, A LA EOYALE. 

To equal proportions of roast beef, raisins, currants, suet, candied 
citron, orange, lemon, spices and sugar, add a proportionate weight of 
stewed pears and preserved ginger, the grated rind of three dozen 
oranges and lemons, and also their juice, one bottle of old rum, one 
bottle of brandy, and two of old port. 



502 PEAR CHARLOTTE. 

1417. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

To prepare this entremet in great perfection it is necessary that a 
crumb-loaf of close-made bread should be ordered two days previous 
for the purpose ; this, it must be owned, is not positively necessary ; 
therefore, in its stead, a stale quartern loaf may answer the purpose well 
enough. 

First of all, some apple marmalade must be prepared as follows : — 
Let two or three dozen apples be peeled, cored, sliced up, and placed 
in a stewpan with one poond of sugar, two ounces of butter, and some 
lemon-peel and cinnamon tied together ; moisten with half a pint of 
water, place the lid on the stewpan, and then set the apples to boil 
sharp on a quick stove until they are melted. You then remove the 
lid, and with a wooden spoon continue stirring the marmalade over a 
brisk fire until it is reduced to a rather stiff consistency. 

A plain round charlotte-movdd must now be lined at the bottom 
with small thin circular pieces of bread, dipped in clarified butter, and 
placed so as to overlap each other until the bottom of the mould is well 
covered. Next, cut some oblong-squares of thin bread, also dipped in 
clarified butter, and set these up the sides of the mould overlapping 
each other — in order that they may be thus enabled to hold firmly to 
the sides of the mould. Fill the cavity with the apple-marmalade, 
cover in the top with a thin circular piece of bread dipped in butter, 
place the charlotte on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a rather brisk 
oveu, of a light color ; and when done, turn it out on its dish, glaze it 
on the top with sifted sugar and a red-hot salamander ; pour some 
diluted apricot-jam round the base, and serve. 

1448. APPLE CHARLOTTE, ANOTHER WAY. 

The apples in this case must be cut up thin, and placed in a deep 
sautapan containing three ounces of dissolved butter, six ounces of 
pounded sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a pinch of cinnamon 
powder ; toss the whole over a stove-fire until the apples begin to melt 
their angles ; then add a pound-pot of apricot-jam, toss the whole 
gently together, and place this preparation in the centre of a charlotte- 
mould, lined as directed in the foregoing article, and proceed in all 
other respects as therein prescribed. 

1449. CHARLOTTE, A LA PARISIENNE. 

First, bake a thin sheet of Genoese, and when this has become thor- 
oughly cold, proceed to cut it out into twenty-four oblong-squares, 
measuring four inches long, by an inch wide ; also about twelve half- 
moon or crescent shapes, of an equal size, in order that these may 
closely fit in with each other, so as to effectually cover the bottom of a 
charlotte -movdd ; a circular piece must also be prepared, with which to 
finish the centre. All these pieces must be glazed over with icing pre- 
pared of two colors in equal numbers; as, for instance, one-half being 
pink, amber, green, or chocolate ; while the other half is to be white. 
With the foregoing, line the mould, and then fill the centre with any 
kind of cream described at No. 1431 and following numbers. 

1450. PEAR CHARLOTTE, A L'ALLEMANDE. 

Peel, quarter, and core a dozen baking-pears ; stew them in three 
pints of water with three quarters of a pound of sugar, some lemou- 



PEACHES A LA RICHELIEU. 503 

peel, and cinnamon, until done. The pears must then be drained 
upon a sieve, and when comparatively dry, must be tossed in a sauta- 
pau with a pound-pot of red-plum or damson-jam, and used to fill in 
the centre of a bread-lined charlotte -vaovXdi, and then baked ; and, on 
the charlotte being dished up, some honey, diluted with orange flower- 
water (warm), poured round the base, and sent to table. 

1451. PEACH CHARLOTTE, A LA FRANCAISE. 

About one dozen not over-ripe peaches, cut into quarters, skinned, 
and the kernels taken from the stones, should be placed in a sautapan 
with a pound-pot of peach-marmalade ; the whole to be tossed over a 
stove-fire until the pieces of peach are just barely warmed through ; 
and with this preparation fill a lined charlotte-mould — brioche being 
used for the purpose instead of bread. When this charlotte is sent to 
table, some currant-jelly, diluted with a glass of noyeau, should be 
poured round the base. 

1452. APRICOT CHARLOTTE. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, substituting 
apricots for peaches, and apricot-marmalade for peach ditto ; and, 
when the charlotte is turned out on to its dish, pour some honey, 
diluted with a liqueur called Ratafia (VAbricots round the base, and 
serve. 

1453. CROUTES AUX PECHES. 

With the remains of Brioche, Compiegne, Konglaiiff, or Savarin 
cakes, cut some oblong shapes, about three inches long, by one inch 
wide ; sugar over, and glaze these with a heated salamander ; then, 
spread each with some peach-jam, and, after having first made a ring 
on the dish with some of the jam, proceed to dish up these fingers, 
each resting upon the other in the form of a high wreath ; on the top 
of this, some halves of peaches (previously boiled for about three 
minutes in syrup) must be closed, dressed : and, having filled the hollow 
centre of the entremet with whipped cream, stick a feather of green 
angelica in the summit, decorate the pieces of peach with preserved 
cherries, raspberries, strawberries, or currant-jelly ; pour some maras- 
chino over the crusts and round the base, and serve. 

1454. PEACHES, A LA RICHELIEU. 

Half a pound of rice boiled thoroughly tender in a quart of milk, 
six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, seasoned with a stick of 
vanilla, and a pinch of salt; which, when done, must be first worked 
together with a wooden spoon, and then, with some of this, proceed 
to form a circular base about two inches high, in the inner part of 
the dish ; and, on the outer part of this base, dress some peaches 
prepared as for a compote, in a thick circle, each overlapping the other; 
fill the centre of these with a piece of the prepared rice about three 
inches high, and upon this eminence build up a pyramid of peaches ; 
over the whole pour some strawberry jelly. Round the base of the 
entremet, place a border of preserved greengages ; stick a plume made 
of angelica on the summit, and finish by pouring some vanilla liqueur 
round the base. 



504 ICED SOUFFLE. 

1455. SUPREME OF FRUITS, A LA VICTORIA. 

For this purpose, some Genoese cake about an inch thick should 
be first prepared, and, out of this, three or four graduated circular 
pieces should be cut ; the largest, with which to form the basement, 
must be eight inches in diameter, the next six, the third four, and 
lastly finishing with a round piece an inch and a half in diameter ; 
these being stuck one upon the other with some kind of fruit jam, 
will thus produce a kind of pyramid. Upon this elevation, closely 
connected rows of either peaches, apricots, pears, or apples, prepared 
as for compotes, must be placed ; finishing at the summit with a vase 
or cup formed out of apple or pear, and filled with a Macedoine of 
fruits. Mask the rows of fruit with some apricot jam, diluted with 
maraschino; and with a paper cornet or biscuit-forcer, fill with 
whipped cream, ornament the base of the entremet in wave-like fash- 
ion, upon these place some plumed pieces of green angelica. 

1456. POIRES OF CROQUETTES. 

About twelve middle-sized pears of good quality must be turned 
smoothly in their own shape, and gently simmered in a little syrup 
until done. Some rice must be prepared as for a rice cake, which 
must be made rather stiff, and steamed in a plain border mould ; this, 
when done, must be turned out on to its dish, the pears are to be placed 
upright thereou in a circular row, and masked all over with diluted 
apricot-jam ; on the stalk-end place a Mirabelle plum, and through 
■this a piece of green Angelica, so as to form the stalk; fill the centre 
with some of the rice (reserved for this purpose), mixed with an equal 
quantity of whipped cream, at the summit of which a plume of green 
angelica must be stuck ; ornament the base with a compote of green- 
gages, and serve. 

1457. ICED SOUFFLE, WITH MARASCHINO. 

Ingredients : — One pint of clarified syrup, twelve yolks of eggs, and 
two whole eggs, a large wine-glassful of maraschino. 

Mix the whole of the ingredients in an earthen basin ; then pour 
the preparation into an egg-bowl that has been previously warmed 
with hot water aud wiped dry; whisk the souffle briskly (the egg-bowl 
being placed on a stove containing hot ashes) until it resembles a 
well-prepared firm sponge-cake batter. Next, fill a soi/J^t'-dish-lining 
with the whisked preparation to an inch or two above the rim, a band 
of stout paper having been secured round the case with a pin or 
string, to prevent the preparation from flowing over. The souffle must 
now be placed in a circular tin box with a tight-fitting lid ; the box 
to be immersed in pounded ice mixed with salt and half a pound of 
saltpetre well mixed, a wet cloth beiug placed over the top, and 
allowed to remain thus in ice for about three hours before it is served ; 
when previously to sending the souffle to table, the band of paper must 
be removed, and some sifted macaroon powder or grated chocolate 
shook over the surface, in order to give it the appearance of a baked 
souffle. 

1458. ICED SOUFFLE, OR CAFE. 

This is prepared in exactly the same manner as the foregoing, with 
the exception that either a white infusion of coffee, or a small cup of 



SPONGADA DI TOLEDO. 505 

very strong coffee, made in the ordinary way, must be substituted for 
the maraschino. 

These souffles may be greatly varied by altering the flavor ; using 
for that purpose any kind of liqueur, orauge-ttower-water, vanilla, 
orange, lemon, &c, &c, &c. 

1459. BISCUITS GLACES. 

The preparations described in the foregoing articles serve equally 
for this purpose ; small square, oblong, or round paper cases being 
lilled with the same, and afterwards placed in a tin or zinc box, made 
expressly for such purposes ; and which may be easily obtained at 
small cost, either at Ravey's, in Conduit street, or Temple's, in Mot- 
comb street ; the only houses where culinary utensils are to be had in 
greatest perfection. 

1460. LA SPONGADA DI EOMA. 

Ingredients : — One pint of clarified syrup, six ounces of dissolved 
chocolate, a table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, an equal quantity of cin- 
namon sugar, four ounces of shred pistachios, two ounces of Diavolini, 
or ginger comfits, six whites of eggs. 

Mix the syrup, dissolved chocolate, the whites of eggs (previously 
broken up with a fork in a basin), the vanilla and cinnamon sugars ; 
and, when these are well mixed together, let them be strained through 
a sieve, and poured into the freezing-pot, previously set with ice, &c, 
in a pail for the purpose. Next, let the freezing-pot be worked or 
twirled round with the left hand, while the spongada is being at the 
same time worked with a spatula held in the right hand, bearing in 
mind that this method of working the ice, while it is being frozen, is 
requisite, in order to facilitate the addition of the fixed air, necessary 
to promote its lightness, and by means of which its volume is thus 
increased twofold. When the spongada has become firm, and at the 
same time light, the ginger comfits and the shred pistachios should be 
lightly mixed in with it ; and immediately after, let the spongada be 
moulded in any kind of iced-pudding-mould ; and after it has been 
properly immersed in rough ice prepared in the usual way, for about 
three hours, let the spongada be carefully turned out upon a napkin 
and served for a second-course remove. 

1461. SPONGADA DI TOLEDO. 

Ingredients : — Eight ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of 
bitter almonds, pounded with half a pint of water, and strained through 
a sieve to produce half a pint of milk of almonds, one pint of strong 
clarified syrup, a wine-glassful of Kirschen-wasser, six whites of eggs, 
six ounces of burnt almonds, slightly bruised, and half a pint of cream 
whipped. 

Mix the milk of almonds, the syrup, whites of eggs, and the 
Kirschen-wasser well together, and strain them through a sieve into a 
freezing-pot ready set in ice, work this as directed in the preceding 
article, and when it has increased to twice its original quantity, let the 
bruised burnt almonds and the whipped cream be lightly added in with 
the spongada. Mould as in the former case. 



506 SPONGADA DI VENEZZA. 

1462. LA SPONGADA DI VENEZZA. 

First, line a spherical iced-pudding-raould with some apricot-water- 
ice, about the third of an inch thick ; and then fill the cavity with the 
following preparation : — 

First, scald and then peel eight ounces of pistachios and one ounce 
of bitter almonds, and pound these into a smooth paste in a mortar — 
adding, by degrees, a gill of water; and when thoroughly pounded, rub 
the produce through a tammy. Next, let the puree of pistachios be 
placed in a basin with a pint of syrup, a table-spoonful of orange-flower- 
water, ditto of spinach-green, and six whites of eggs that have been 
pressed through a tammy for the purpose; mix well together, and 
having poured the preparation into a ready-prepared freezing-pot, 
proceed immediately to work it as directed in the former cases ; and 
when finished, use it to fill the bombe-sheU ; which, being completed, 
and the mould being effectually closed, must be immersed in ice for 
three hours previously to its being turned out for table. 

These spongadi are well qualified to form a rich variety of iced-pnd- 
dings for the second course, and are capable of being greatly varied 
by introducing different kinds of flavoring ; such as all kinds of 
liqueurs, essences, or pounded sugar impregnated with orange, lemon, 
vanilla, orange-flowers, cinuamon, bitter almonds, &c, &c. The body 
of the ice may also be altered by using purees of different kinds of 
fruits, instead of the milk of almonds or the puree of pistachios. 



A SERIES OF BILLS OF FARE 

FOR EVERY MONTH THROUGHOUT THE YEAR. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 
Julienne soup. 



1 Fish. 

Fried soles, anchovy sauce. 



Fowl and rice. [2 Removes.'} Roast leg of Welsh mutton. 



2 Entrees : 
Salmis of partridges, a l'ancienne. Fricandeau with puree of sorrel. 



Second Course. 
Roast snipes. 



3 Entremets: 

Spinach with cream. Blano-manger. 

Apples a la Portuguaise. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 

Palestine soup. 



1 Fish. 

Crimped cod and oyster sauce. 



Roast griskin of pork, with ap- [2 Removes.} Braized pheasant, with cab- 
pie sauce. bages. 

2 Entrees : 
Patties of chicken, a la Bechamel. Mutton cutlets sautees, with puree 

of potatoes. 



Second Coukse. 
Roast Hare. 



3 Entremets : 
Fried salsitis in hatter. Apricot puffs. 

Orange jelly. 

(507) 



508 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 
Ox-tail clear soup. 

1 Fish. 
Broiled Herrings, with mustard sauce. 



Snipe pudding, a la D'Orsay. [2 Removes.} Roast saddle of mutton. 



2 Entries : 
Blanquette of fowl with mushrooms. Scollops of beef, a la Napolitaine. 



Second Course. 
Roast Pheasant. 



3 Entremets: 
Brussels-sprouts, a la creme. Meringues, with cream. 

Pears and rice, a la Cond6. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 
Vermicelli soup, a la Windsor. 



1 Fish. 
Turbot, with lobster sauce. 



Boiled neck of mutton, with [2 Removes.} Partridges, a la Seville. 

mashed turnips. 

2 Entries: 

Fillets of rabbits, a la Marechale. Fricasse of chicken, in a border of rice 



Second Course. 
Roast wild duck. 



3 Entremets: 
Jerusalem artichokes, a l'Espagnole. Custards in glass* 

Tourte of apples, a la Cobourg. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. January. 
Jardiniere clear soup. 



1 Fish. 
Whitings au gratin. 



Roast neck of venison. [2 Removes. ] Braized pheasant, with Sou- 

bise sauce. 

2 Entries: 
Quenelles of fowl, a l'essence. Tendons of veal, with a puree of spinach. 



Second Course. 
Roast larks. 



3 Entremets : 

Brown-bread pudding, a la Gotha (preserved cherries). 

Turnips glaces a l'Espagnole. Apple fritters. 



FOR JANUARY. 509 

Dinner for 10 Persons. January. 
Bisque of lobster Soup. 



1 Fish. 
Crimpt cod, with oyster sauce, garnished with fried smelts. 



Patties, a la Monglas. 
2 Removes. 
Roast turkey, a la Perigord. Braized ham with spinach. 



2 Entries : 
Fat livers, a la Financiere. Fillets of partridges, a la Lucullus. 



Second Course. 
Roast black-cock. [2 Roasts.] Roast Teal. 



1 Remove. 
Souffle of apples, a la Venitienne. 



4 Entremets. 
Mecca loaves, with apricot. Braized celery. 

Italian cream. Macaroni au gratin. 



Dinner for 10 Persons. January. 

Puree of grouse, a la Conde. 

1 Fish. 
Soles a la Matelotte Normande. 



Boiled Poulard with Nouilles. [2 Removes.] Roast saddle of mutton. 



Croquettes of oysters 



2 Entries : 
Blanquette of pheasant and truffles. Cutlets of pork, Robert sauce. 



Second Course. 
Partridges. [2 Roasts.] Woodcocks. 



[1 Remove.] 
Fondu of Parmesan Cheese. 



4 Entremets. 

Apples a la creme. Seakale a la Bechamel. 

Pethiviers cakes. Punch-jelly. 



510 BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 10 Persons. January. 
Giblet scrap, clear. 



Baked haddock. [2 Fishes.] Fillets of soles au gratin. 



Capon, a laChipolata. [2 Removes.'] Boiled leg of mutton, a l'An- 

glaise. 

Oyster patties. 



2 Entries : 
Boudins of pheasant, a la d'Artois. Mutton cutlets, a la Russe. 



Second Course. 
Lobster, au gratin. [2 Roasts.] Widgeon. 



4 Entreme'ts : 
Filbert-cream tartlets. Pears a la Conde. 

Noyeau-jelly. Cardoons, a l'Espagnole. 



Dinner for 10 Persons. January. 
Soup, a la Julienne. 

1 Fish. 
Turbot,with lobster and Dutch sauces. 



Fowls, a la Macedoine. [2 Removes.] Fillet of Beef larded, a la 

Financiere. 

Patties, a la Reine. 

2 Entries : 

Salmis of snipes, with truffles. Fillets of pigeons, a la de Luynes. 



Second Course. 
Roast Hare. [2 Roasts.] Savarin, with cherries. 



4 Entremets: 
Spinach; with croutons. Orange-jelly, in small baskets. 

Charlotte, a la Parisienne. Profitrolles au chocolat. 



FOR JANUARY. 



511 



Dinner for 12 Persons. January. 
Soup a la Xavier. [2 Soups.'] Puree of fowl, a la Reine. 

Fried smelts, with Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.'] Crimped cod, a la cr&me au 

gratin. 

Braized ham, garnished with [2 Removes.] Roast loiu of veal, a la Mon- 

Brussels-sprouts. glas. 

4 Entries. 
Fillets of partridges, a la de Luynes. Kromeskys of lobsters, a la Russe. 

Mutton cutlets, a la Soubise. Scollops of fowls, with truffles. 



Widgeon. 
Fondu of Parmesan. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Woodcocks. 



[2 Removes.] Iced pudding, a la Cintra. 

6 Entremets: 

Punch jelly. 
Damson tartlets. 
Apples and rice plain, with apricot jam. Mecca loaves, with rasberry jam. 



Italian salad. 

Mushrooms, a la Provencale. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. January. 
Flemish clear soup. [2 Soups.] Mock turtle. 

Soles in Norman matelotte. [2 Fishes.] Haddocks, with egg sauce. 
Pheasants a la Dauphinoise. [2 Removes.] Roast saddle of mutton. 



4 Entries : 
Oyster patties. Boudins of fowl, a la Richelieu. 

Salmis of woodcocks, a l'ancienne. Scollops of sweetbreads, a la Villeroi. 



Larks. 



Ginger pudding. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes. ] 



Roast capon. 
Souffle of arrow root. 



6 Entremets : 
Braized celery, a l'essence. Charlotte of apples. 

Macaroni au gratin. D'Artois of strawberry jam. 

Maraschino jelly. Italian cream. 



512 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 12 Persons. January. 
Macaroni clear soup. [2 Soups.] Puree of carrots, a la Crecy. 

Fillets of whitings, a la Royale. [2 Fishes.] John-dory, with Dutch sauce. 

Braized fillet of beef, with Ma- [2 Removes.] Poulards, a la Perigeux. 

deira sauce. 

4 Entries: 
Boudins of pheasant, a la Reine. Fillets of pigeons, a la D'Uxelles. 

Mutton cutlets, a la Bour uignotte. Marrow patties, with fine-herbs sauce. 



Second Course. 
Teal. [2 Roasts.] Hare. 



Brown-bread souffle. [2 Removes.] Ramequins, a laSefton. 

6 Entremets: 
Salsifis a la creme. Vol-au-vent of greengages. 

Potatoes an gratin. Noyeau cream. 

Lemon jelly. Pithiviers cakes. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. January. 

Soup, a la Colbert. [2 Soups.] Puree of pheasant, a la Chasseur. 

Torbay soles, with lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Fillets of gurnets, a la Maitre 

d'hotel. 

Roast turkey, a la Financiere. [2 Removes.] Baked ham, with Madeira sauce. 

4 Entries: 
Mutton cutlets, a la Provencale. Fillets of widgeon, Poivrade sauce. 

Bouchees of rabbit, a la Pompadour. Croquettes of oysters, a la Bechamel. 



Second Course. 
Partridges. [2 Roasts.] Black game. 



Iced pudding, a la Duchesse [2 Removes.] Pancakes souffles. 

de Kent. 

6 Entremets: 

Portugal onions glazed a l'Espagnole. Apple tartlets. 

Spinach au jus. Meringue a la Parisienne. 

Damson cheese a la Chantilly. Eggs a la neige, flavored with coffee. 



FOR JANUARY. 



513 



Dinner for 16 Persons. January. 
Julienne. [2 Soups.'] Calfs-feet, a la Windsor. 



Fillets of soles, a la Venitienne. [2 Fishes.] Haddocks broiled, Dutch sauce 
Capon, a la Toulouse. [2 Removes.] Rump of beef, a la Jardiniere. 

6 Entries: 
Croustades of ox-piths, a la Monglas. Mutton cutlets bread-crumbed, with 
Border of rice garnished with a puree a puree of chestnuts. 

of pheasants. Fillets of fowls with truffles, Su 

Boudins of rabbit, a la D'Artois. preme sauce. , 

Salmis of widgeon, a la Bigarrade. , 



Pheasants. 
Apricot Soufflee. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Snipes. 



Parmesan fritters. 



8 Entremets : 
Lobster salad. Kirschen-wasser jelly. 

Mushrooms, au.gratin. Chocolate cream. 

Potatoes, a la maitre d'hotel. Pears, a la Conde. 

Brussels-sprouts sautes with butter. Darioles, a la Vanille. 



Dinner for 16 Persons. January. 

Puree of celery, a la creme. [2 Soups.] Quenelles of rabbit, in con 

somme. 

Fillets of soles, a la Dieppoise. [2 Fishes.] Baked pike, Piquante sauce. 

Calf's-head, a laTortue. [2 Removes. ] Fowls with Nouilles, a l'Al- 

lemande. 

6 Entries: 

Pork cutlets, a la Robert. Patties, a la Reine. 

Woodcocks, a la Monarque. Fillets of partridges, a la Marechale. 

Mince of chicken in a border, garnished Sweetbreads larded, with endives, 
with poached eggs. 



Hare. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Wild ducks. 



Pancakes with apricot. [2 Removes. ] Iced pudding, a la Stanley 

5 

8 Entremets : 
Potato croquettes, a la Bechamel. Panach6e jelly. 



Seakale, a l'Espagnole. 

Crusts garnished with mushrooms. 

Lobster, au gratin. 

32 



Pine-apple cream. 

Pastafrolle cake, a la Napolitaine. 

Tourte of greengages. 



514 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 8 Persons. February. 
Cream of barley, a la Reine. 



Matelotte of eels. [2 Fishes.'] Crimped cod broiled, Dutch. 

sauce. 

Pheasants a la Financiere. [2 Removes.] Braized roll of beef, a la Fla- 

mande. 

Noukles with Parmesan. 



2 Entries : 
Scollops of fowls a l'ecalarte. Lamb cutlets bread-crumbed, with a 

puree of celery. 



Second Course. 
Teal. [2 Roasts.] Macaroni, a l'ltalienne. 



1 Remove. 
Rice soufflee. 



4 Entremets: 
Canapes of anchovies. Tourte of pears, a la Cobourg. 

Seakale, a la Bechamel. Burnt cream, au caramel. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. February 
Soup a la Desclignac. 

Crimped haddocks, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.] Fillets of brill, a la Marechale. 
Roast haunch of mutton. [2 Removes.] Braized goose, a la Jardiniere. 



Lobster patties. 



2 Entre'es: 
Chickens, a la Marengo. Salmis of Snipes, a la Talleyrand. 



Second Course. 
Black game. [2 Roasts.] Salad, a la Russe. 

1 Remove. 
Nouilles cake, a l'AUemande. 



4 Entremets : 
Celery, a la Villeroi. Profitrolles, a la creme. 

Poached eggs, on anchovy toast. Apricot cheese, a la Chantilly. 



FOR FEBRUARY. 515 



Dinner for 10 Persons. February. 

Puree of Carrots, a la Stanley. 
Cod a la Creme, au gratin. [2 Fishes."] Water Souchet of Fillets of Soles. 

Kromeskys of Lobster. 



Boiled Turkey, with puree of [2 Removes.] Braized Ham, au Madere. 

Celery. 

2 Entries: 
Supreme of fillets of "Woodcocks, Cutlets of Sweetbreads, a la Dauphine. 

a l'ancienne. 



Second Course. 
Roast Pheasants. [2 Roasts.] Timbale of Noukles. 



4 Entremets. 
Brocoli, au gratin. Currant and Raspberry jelly ("preserved). 

Lobster salad. Meringues filled with Orange ice. 



Dinner for 10 Persons. February. 
Soup of Sturgeon's Head, a la Chinoise. 



Cod's Sounds, a la Gasconne. [2 Fishes.] Fried Soles. 



Patties au jus. 



Pheasants a la Perigueux. [2 Removes.] Boiled leg of Pork a l'Anglaise. 

2 Entries : 
Tendons of veal in a Chartreuse. Fricassee of chicken, a la St. Lambert. 






Second Coorse. 
Supreme of fruits. [2 Roasts.] Wild Ducks. 



4 Entremets. 
Apple tartlets. Mushrooms, au gratin. 

Chestnut pudding. Vanilla cream. 



516 BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 10 Persons. February. 
Bonne Femme Soup. 



Whitings, an gratin. [2 Fishes.] Eels, a la Tartare. 

Rissoles, a la Milanaise. 



Capon a la Montmorency. [2 Removes.'] Braized beef, a la D'Orleans. 



2 Entries: 
Fillets of chicken, a l'Indienne. Paupiettes of Ox-palates, a la Financiere. 



Second Course. 
Salad, a la Rnsse. [2 Boasts.] Larks, bread-crumbed. 



4 Entremets: 
Apricots a la Conde. Nesselrode pudding. 

Maraschino jelly. Mosaic tartlets. 



Dinner for 10 Persons. February. 

Bisque of rabbits. 

1 Fish. 
Haddocks, a la Belle-vue. 



Ox-piths fried in batter. 



Calf's-head a la Financiere. [2 Removes.] Small chickens, a la VertprS. 



2 Entries : 

Mutton cutlets a la Pompadour. Scollops of fat livers, with truffles and 

fine-herbs. 



Second Course. 
Scolloped oysters. [2 Roasts.] Pintail. 

4 Entr emits: 
Krapfen with apricot. Pudding, a la Viennoise. 

Seakale a la sauce. Champagne jelly. 



FOR FEBRUARY. 517 

Dinner for 8 Persons. February. 
Hare soup, a la Chasseur. 



Turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes."] Broiled whitings, capers' sauce. 



Capon and rice. [2 Removes.] Braized leg of mutton, a la Sou- 

bise. 

Patties, a la Mazarin. 



2 Entries. 
Grenadins of veal larded, garnished Fillets of pheasants, a la Marechale. 
with a Nivernaise. 



Second Course. 
Potato chips. [2 Roasts.] Ptarmegans. 



1 Remove. 
Apple pudding. 



4 Entremets : 
Braized Celery, garnished with crous- Orange jelly, a l'Anglaise. 

tades of marrow. Bread-and-butter pastry. 

Scolloped oysters. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. February. 
Ox-cheek soup, a la Flamande. 



Brill, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Baked Gurnets, Italian sauce. 



Fillet of beef, Poivrade sauce. [2 Removes.] Braized Ducks, with turnips. 



Tourte of godiveau, a la Ciboulette. 

2 Entries: 
Boudins of pheasant, a la Victoria. Veal cutlets, a la Regence. 



Second Course. 
German salad. [2 Roasts.] Woodcocks. 



1 Remove. 
Macaroni pudding. 



4 Entremets: 
Jerusalem artichokes, a l'Espagnole. Quarters of oranges filled with trans- 
Eggs brouilles, with truffles. parent jelly. 

Almond GaufFres, a la crSme. 



518 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 20 Persons. February. 
Soup a la Sevign6. [2 Soups.'] Cream of rice, a la Chasseur. 



Salmon, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Slices of crimped Cod broiled, 

a la Maitre d'hotel. 

Ham, a la Parisienne [2 Removes.] Poulards, a la Royale. 

Kromeskys of oysters. 

8 Entrees: 
Fillets of rabbits larded, a l'ancienne. Lamb cutlets, with Macedoine of 
Fricasseeofchickens,alaSt. Lambert. vegetables. 

Pate-Chaud of larks, a la Perigueux. Fricandeau, with purge of artichokes. 
Border of rice, with puree of fowl, a la Fillets of partridges, with fumet. 

Polonaise. Mazarine of fat livers, a la Financiere. 



Second Course. 
Snipes. [2 Roasts.] Pheasants. 



Iced pudding, a la Syrienne. [2 Removes.] Souffle tartlets, a la D'Artois. 



Nougat of almonds. [2 Flanks.] Savoy cake in the form of a swan. 



8 Entremets: 
Aspic of lobsters, with mayonaise. Charlotte of apricots. 

Russian salad. Orange jelly, garnished with oranges. 

Spinach with cream. Florentines, with pistachios. 

Brocoli with Parmesan cheese. Cherry tartlets. 



Dinner for 20 Persons. February. 
Purge of pheasant. [2 Soups.] Brunoise soup. 



Crimped soles, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.] Fillets of turbot, a la Parisienne. 



Turkey, a la Perigueux. [2 Removes.] Braized roll of beef, a la D'Or- 

leans. 

Marrow patties. 



8 Entries: 
Potato border, garnished with scol- Mutton cutlets, a la Duchesse. 

lops of Larks. Fillets of fowls a l'ecarlate with Su- 

Turban of ox-palates, au gratin. preme sauce. 

Fillets of widgeons, a la Gasconne. Sweetbreads larded, a la Monarque. 

Calf's-ears, a la Tortue. Quenelles of partridge, a l'Allemande. 



Second Course. 
Hares. [2 Roasts.] Black game. 



Small fondus in cases. [2 Removes.] Polish Baba. 

Sultana of spun sugar. [2 Flanks.] Meringue, a la Parisienne. 

8 Enlrevu'ts: 
Truffles, a la Piemontaise. Variegated jelly, a la Victoria. 

Crayfish, a laPoulette. Bavarian coffee cream. 

Seakale with white sauce. Apricot nougats. 

Brussels sprouts with Maitre d'hotel Mirlitons. 
sauce. 



FOR FEBRUARY. 519 

Dinner for 24 Persons. February. 

Puree of turnips, a la Jardiniere. [2 Soups.'] Barley in consomme, a la Prin- 

cesse. 

John-Dory, Dutch sauce. [3 Fishes.] Salmon, a la Regence. 
Fried smelts. 



Calf's head, a la Financiere. [2 Removes.] Chickens, a la Montmorency. 



Fillet of beef, a la Napolitaine. [2 Flanks.] Grenada ham, with spinach. 



8 Entries : 
2 Lamb Cutlets, a la Chevreuse. 2 Fillets of Woodcocks, a la Valencay. 

2 Scollops of fowls, with cucumbers. 2 Tim bales of macaroni, a la Chasseur. 



Second Course. 
Partridges. [2 Roasts.] Wild Ducks. 



Talmouses with cheese. [2 Removes.] Iced Pudding, a la Prince Albert. 



Croquante of Ratafias. \2 Flanks.] Cake, a la Parisienne. 



12 Entremets. 

French truffles, an champagne. Braized celery, a l'Espagnole. 

Scolloped oysters in small shells. Brocoli, with. Bechamel sauce. 

Aspic, a la Reine. Mayonaise of fillets of soles. 

Bavarian cream of preserved rasberries. Pine-apple jelly. 

Mosaic tartlets of apricots. • Neapolitan cake, a la Chantilly. 

Macedoine jelly. Charlotte a la Russe. 



Dinner for 36 Persons. February. 
Puree of partridges, a la Conde. [4 Soups.] 2 Turtle, Spring soup. 

Fried smelts. Soles, a la Pari- [4 Fishes.] Crimped turbot, lobster sauce, 
sienne. fried fillets of whiting. 

Roast Baron of lamb, a la Ma- [2 Removes.] Pheasants, a la Dauphine. 

cedoine. 

Croquettes, a la Reine, and oyster croustades. 



Pate-chaud of snipes, a la Peri- [2 Flanks.] Chartreuse of tendons of veal. 

gueux. 

12 Entrees : 
2 Mutton Cutlets, a la Soubise. 2 Fillets of rabbits, a la D'TJxelles. 

2 Scollops of partridges, a la Victoria. 2 Boudins of fowl, a la Sefton. 
2 Lamb's-ears, a la Financiere. 2 Croustades of nouilles, with puree 

of woodcocks. 



Second Course. 
Black Game. [3 Roasts.] Teal, Ducklings. 

Flemish gauflfres, Fondu of [3 Removes.] Iced pudding, a la Kinnaird. 

cheese. 

Millefeuilles cake, a la Chan- [2 Flanks.] Ham of Savoy cake, garnished 

tilly. with jelly. 

16 Entremets. 
2 Crdutes of mushrooms. 2 Asparagus, with butter sauce. 

2 Darnes of salmon, with Montpel- 2 Lobster salads. 

lier-butter. 2 Punch jellies. 

2 Cherry cheeses with cream. 2 Vol-au-vents of apricots. 

2 Darioles, with candiel orange-flowers. 



520 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 6 Persons. March. 

Brown puree of turnips soup. 

1 Fish. 
Soles, a la Colbert. 



Boiled fowl, with brocoli. [2 Removes.'] Roast leg of lamb. 

2 Entrees : 
Mutton cutlets, sautees, with a puree Vol-au-vent of godiveau, a la Fi- 
of potatoes. nanciere. 



Second Course. 
Roast widgeon. 



3 Entremets: 
Eggs brouilles, with asparagus-peas. Tapioca pudding, custard sauce. 
German tourte of apples. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. March. 
Puree of vegetables, & la Croissy. 



1 Fish. 
Salt Fish, a la Bechamel. 



Roast saddle of mutton. [2 Removes.'] Partridge pie, a l'Anglaise. 



2 Entries: 
Chickens, a la Lyonnaise. Blanquette of sweetbreads, garnished 

with croquettes. 



Second Course. 
Roast larks. 



3 Entremets: 
Salsifis with white sauce. Bavarian cream of Noyeau. 

Duchess loaves with rasberry jam. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. March. 
Soup a la Bonne-femme. 



1 Fish. 
Fillets of whitings, a la Provencale. 



Roast fillet of beef, Poivrade [2 Removes.] Cushion of veal, a la Jardiniere. 

sauce. 

2 Entries : 
Partridges, a la Brezilienne. Quenelles of fowl, a l'essence. 



Second Course. 
Roast wild duck. 



3 Entremits. 
Brussels-sprouts sautes with butter. Orange jelly, a la Francaise. 

Genoese cakes with almonds. 






FOR MARCH. 521 

Dinner for 6 Persons. March. 

Potato soup, a la creme. 



1 Fish. 

Fillets of salmon, a la ravigotte. 



Chickens, a l'ltalienne. [2 Removes.'} Roast beef, horse-radish sauce. 



» 2 Entrees : 

Pigeons, a la Crapaudine, with Pi- Carbonnades of mutton, a la Jardi- 

quante sauce. niere. 



Second Course. 
Roast Plovers. 



3 Entremets: 

Macaroni au gratin. Lemon pudding. 

Chocolate custards. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. March. 

Paysaime soup. 



1 Fish. 
Crimped skate fried, with capers' sauce. 



Braized neck of mutton, & [2 Removes. ] Lark pudding;, k la Chipolata. 

rirlandaise. 

2 Entrees: 
Timbale of raviolis, a la Romaine. Chickens, a l'Allemande. 



Second Coukse. 
Roast Duckling. 



3 Entremets : 
Scolloped muscles. Cranberry tart. 

Lemon and cinnamon cream. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. March 

Cream of rice soup, a la Victoria. 



1 *7*A. 

Fried Eels, a la Tartare. 

Lamb's-head, a la Gallimauffre. [2 Removes.} Fowl, a la Dauphine. 



2 Entrees : 
Beefsteaks, a la Francaise. Braized duck, a la Nivernaise. 



Second Cockse. 
Roast Piseons. 



3 Entremets : 
Jerusalem artichokes, a l'Espagnole. Cherry bread, a la Gotha. 
Puff-paste tartlets of rasberry-jam. 



522 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 12 Persons. April. 

Spring soup. [2 Soups.'] Bisque of crayfish, a la Malmes- 

bury. 

Crimped salmon, with, parsley [2 Fishes.] Perch, a la Stanley. 

and butter sauce. 

Calf's-head, a la Beauveau. [2 Removes.] Poulards and tongue, a la Ma- 

cedoine. 

4 Entries : 

Lamb cutlets, a la Duchesse. Boudins of lobster, a la Cardinal. 

Fillets of fowls with asparagus-peas, Fritot of spring chickens, with Poi- 
Supreme sauce. vrade sauce. 



Guinea fowls, larded. 



Steamed soufflee. 



Brocoli with white sauce.' 
Spinach in small croustades. 
Loaves, a la Parisienne. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Ducklings. 
Compiegne cake. 



6 Entremets: 

Gooseberry cream. 

Flan of pears and rice, a la Conde. 

Cherry jelly. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. April. 

Quenelles of fowl in consomme. [2 Soups.] Puree of young carrots, alaFau- 

bonne. 



Spey trout, Dutch sauce. 



[3 Fishes.] Fillets of soles, a la Bagration. 



Roast fore-quarter of lamb. [2 Removes. ] Chickens, a la Printaniere. 



4 Entries : 
Veal cutlets, a a Dreux. Fillets of mutton larded, with Toma- 

Scollops of fowls with cucumbers. ta sauce. 

Boudins of rabbit, a la Pompadour. 



Pigeons. 
Ramequins, a la Sefton. 



Seakale with white sauce. 
Mushrooms, au gratin. 
Vol-au-vent of Macedoine. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Turkey poults. 



[2 Removes.] Biscuits glaces, in cases. 



6 Entremets. 

Gooseberry tartlets. 
Pudding, a la Viennoise. 
Marbled cream. 



i 



FOR APRIL. 523 

Dinner for 16 Persons. April. 
Macaroni clear soup. [2 Soups.'] Puree of spinach, a la Conde. 



Crimped turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Matelotte of eels, a la Borde- 

laise. 

Braized saddle of lamb, a la Jar- [2 Removes.'] Poulards, a l'Estragon. 

diniere. 

Shrimp patties, to be handed round. 



6 Entries: 
Mutton cutlets with new potatoes. Sweetbreads larded, a la Parisienne. 

Fillets of pigeons, a la Dauphine, with Fillets of ducklings, a la Bigarade 
French-beans. Quenelles of fowl, a la Perigueux. 

Quails, augratin, with Financiere sauce. 



Second Coubse. 
Peahen larded. [2 Roasts.] Green goose. 



Brioche with cheese. [2 Removes.] Chocolate soufflSe. 



8 Entremets. 
Asparagus with white sauce. Vanilla cream. 

French-beans, a la Poulette. Apricot tartlets. 

Macedoine jelly. Porcupine of apples meringuee. 

Pudding, a la Prince de Galles. Lobster salad. 



Dinner for 16 Persons. April. 
Clear turtle soup. [2 Soups.] Soup, a la Hollandaise. 



Haddocks, egg sauce. [2 Fishes.] Turbot, a la creme, au gratin. 

Lobster patties, to be handed round. 



Fillet of beef, a l'Allemande. [2 Removes.] Capon, a la Perigueux. 

6 Entries: 
Braized carbonnades of mutton, a la Fricandeau, with purge of spinach. 

Macedoine. Casserole of rice, a la Reine, with 

Lamb cutlets bread-crumbed, cucum- plovers' eggs. 

ber sauce. Pate-chaud of quails, a la Bourguig- 

Fillets of pigeons, a la de Luynes. notte. 



Second Course. 
Spring chickens. [2 Roasts.] Leverets. 



Small fondus, in cases. [2 Removes.] Pine-apple fritters. 



8 Entremets : 
Crotes with mushrooms. Bavarian strawberry cream. 

Asparagus-peas, a la Francaise. Cheese cakes. 

Vol-au-vent of rhubarb. Calf's-feet wine jelly. 

Savarin cake. Salade de volaille. 



r 



4 

524 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner foe 20 Persons. April. 
Chiffonade spring soup. [2 Soups.] Bisque of crab, a la Fitzhardinge 

John-Dory, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.] Salmon, a la Royale. 

Kromeskys of fowl, a la Russe. 

Braized rump of beef, a la Polo- [2 Removes.] Chickens, a la Chivry. 

naise. 

8 Entries: 
Mutton cutlets braized, with a puree Vol-au-vent, a la Nesle. 

of chestnuts. Fillets of fowls, a la Marechale. 

Scollops of leverets, a la Perigueux. Lamb's-ears farcied, a la Dauphine. 
Compote of pigeons, a la Bourguignotte. Grenadins of veal, with puree of 

spinach. 
Timbale of macaroni, a la Mazarin. 



Second Course. 
Quails. [2 Roasts.] Ducklings. 



Vol-au-vent of damsons with [2 Removes.] Semolina soufflee. 

iced custard. 

Nougat, a la Farisienne. [2 Flanks.] Brioche with candied citron. 



8 Entremets: 
French beans, a la Maitre d'hdtel. Brocoli with Parmesan cheese. 

Bastion of eels with Montpellier butter. Aspic of plovers' eggs. 
Pine-apple cream. Strawberry jelly.' 

Parisian loaves. Green-currant tartlets. 



Dinner for 20 Persons. April. 

Spring soup. [2 Soups.] Bisque of quails a la Prince 

Albert. 

Mackerel, Fennel sauce. [2 Fishes.] Trout, a la Parisienne. 



Rissolee, a la Milanaise. 



Poulards, a la Printaniere. [2 Removes.] Roast fillet of beef larded, Ma- 

deira sauce. 

8 Entries. 
Fillets of chickens, with a puree of Epigramme of Lamb, with aspara- 

truffles. gus-peas. 

Cutlets of sweetbreads, a la D'Uxelles. Boudins of fowl, a la Reine. 
Noix of veal, a la St. Cloud. Fillets of rabbits larded, with a pu- 

Timbale of nouilles, a la Chasseur. ree of endives. 

Border of potato, garnished with scollops of leverets. 



Second Course. 
Guinea fowls. [2 Roasts.] Pigeons. 

Ramequins with Gruyere. [2 Removes.] Iced pudding, a la Princesse 

Alice. 

Cake, a la Victoria. [2 Flanks.] Large Meringue, a la Chantilly. 

8 Entremets : 
Perigord truffles (boiled in mirepoix). Aspic of fillets ot fowl, a la Belle-vue. 
Asparagus with white sauce. Pomegranate jelly. 

Lobster salad with a border of plovers' Bavarian coffee cream. 

eggs. Tourte of apricots, a l'Allemande. 

Croquante of Genoese cake. 



\ 



FOR MAT. 525 

Dinner for 8 Persons. May. 

Bisque of Prawns. 



Trout, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.'] White bait. 



Roast poulard, a l'ltalienne. [2 Removes.] Boiled leg of lamb and spinach. 



Patties of ox-piths au jus. 



2 Entries: 
Pigeon cutlets, a la Dauphine. Scollops of fillets of beef, a la Claremont. 



Second Course. 
Plovers' eggs, plain. [2 Roasts.] Green-goose. 



1 Remove. 
Apricot souffle. 



4 Entremets: 
Green peas plain. Burnt cream, au caramel. 

JSew potatoes, au gratin. Strawberry tartlets. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. May. 
Puree of green peas, a la Victoria. 



Scollops of fillets of gurnets, [2 Fishes.] Boiled mackerel, a la Maitre 

Dutch sauce. d'hotel. 

Poulard and rice. [2 Removes.] Beefsteak pie. , 



Mazarine patties. 



2 Entries: 
Lambs' sweetbreads larded, with purge Blanquette of fowls, garnished with 
of asparagus. cucumbers farcied. . 



Second Course. 
Russian salad. [2 Roasts.] Leveret. 



1 Remove. 
Brown-bread pudding, cherry sauce. 



4 Entremets: 
French beans, a la Poulette. Marygolds of puff-paste. 

Macaroni, a la Creme. Celestine charlotte of strawberries. 



A 



526 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 8 Persons. May. 
Puree of fowls, a la Celestine. 



Crimped soles, Dutch Sauce. [2 Fishes.] Red mullets in cases with fine- 

herbs. 

Chickens, a la Reine. [2 Removes.] Ribs of beef, a la mode. 



Lobster patties. 



2 Entries: 
Boudins of rabbit, a la Richelieu. Mutton cutlets with stewed peas. 



Second Course. 
Crayfish plain. [2 Roasts.'] Ducklings. 



1 Remove. 
Pancakes with apricot. 



4 Entremets : 
New potatoes, a la creme. D'Artois of strawberry-jam. 

Macaroni, au gratin. Maraschino jelly. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. May. 
Desclignac soup, with asparagus points. 

Small turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Epigramme of fillets of trout. 



Braized green-goose, a la Fla- [2 Removes.] Roast quarter of lamb, a la 

mande. Maitre d'hotel. 

Soft roes of mackerel fried in batter, Gascony sauce. 



2 Entries : 
Chickens, a la Florentine. Tendons of veal, with a Macedoine of 

vegetables. 



Second Course. 
Canapes of anchovies. [2 Roasts.] Turkey-poult larded. 



1 Remove. 
Flemish gauffres. 



4 Entremets: 
Seakale, a la Bechamel. Orange-flower cream. 

New potatoes, ala Maitre d'hdtel. Raspberry tartlets. 



N 



FOR MAT. 



527 



Dinner for 36 Persons. May. 

Turtle soup (clear). r4 e 1 Turtle soup (full). 

Soup, a la Sevigne\ *■ 0U P s -i Puree of fowls, a la Princesse. 



Crimped salmon, lobster sauce. rA v - i -, 
White bait. L4 * ls/ies -l 



Turbot. a la Vatel. 
White bait. 



Granada ham braized, garnished Fillet of beef larded, a la Napoli- 

with a Macedoine. [4 Removes.] taine. 

Calf's-head, a la Tortue. Poulards, a la Godard. 



Kronieskys Oi lobsters, to be handed round. 



12 Entries : 
2 Fillets of quails, a l'ancienne. 2 Quenelles of fowl, a l'essence. 

2 Scollops of Fowls with cucumbers. 2 Pates-chauds of leverets, a la Pe- 
2 Lamb cutlets bread-crumbed, gar- rigueux. 

nished with puree of mushrooms. 2 Timbales of raviolis, a la Romaine. 



Pigeons larded. 



Second Course. 

[3 Roasts. J 
Peahen larded. 



Spring chickens. 



Krapfen with apricot. [3 Removes.'] Fondu of Parmesan. 

Iced pudding, a la Chesterfield. 



Savoy cake, a la Vanille. [2 Flanks.] Sultana of spun sugar. 



16 Entremets: 
2 Groups of large Perigord truffles. 2 Aspics garnished with plovers' eggs. 
2 Stewed peas, a la Francaise. 2 Red currant and raspberry-jellies. 

2 Asparagus with white sauce. 2 Pine-apple cheeses, a la Chantilly. 

2 Cherry tartlets. 2 Peaches au riz, a la Conde. 

/ 



r' ] 



528 






BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 28 Persons. May 



Jardiniere soup. 



[3 Soups."] Bisque of prawns, a la Cerito. 
Turtle soup. 



Crimped trout, lobster sauce. [3 Fishes.] Sturgeon a la Regence. 
Fillets of whitings, a la Horly. 



Marrow patties, with fine-herbs sauce. 



Poulards, a la Dauphine. [2 Removes.'] Baron of lamb, a la Montmo- 

rency. 

Small ribs of beef braized, a [2 Flanks.] Braized ham, garnished with 

la Milanaise. French beans. 

8 Entrees : 
2 Mutton cutlets braized, a la Russe. 2 Fillets of fowls larded and glaces, 
2 Fillets of pigeons, a la Villeroi, gar- garnished with a Parisian ragout, 
nished with a Bourguignotte ragout. 2 Veal kernels glaces, garnished with 

a puree of green peas. 



Turkey-poults larded. 



Talmouses of cheese. 



Second Course. 

[3 Roasts.] 
Quails. 



[3 Removes.] 
Cabinet pudding. 



Croquante of oranges. [2 Flanks.] 



Duckling!. 



Pancake souffles. 



Meringue, a la Parisieune. 



12 Entremets: 
2 French-beans sautes with butter. 2 Italian salads in decoroted aspic- 

2 Asparagus, white sauce. borders. 

2 Macedoine jellies. 2 Celestine strawberry creams. 

2 Red-currant and raspberry tartlets. 



FOR JUNE. 529 

Dinner for 6 Persons. June. 
Green-peas soup, a la Cond.6. 



1 Fish. 
Baked whitings, with fine-herbs. 



Chicken pie, a l'Anglaise. [2 Removes.'] Breast of veal and stewed-peas. 

2 Entries : 
Mutton outlets, a la Milanaise. Rabbit curry, in a border of rice. 



Second Couese. 
Roast pigeons. 



3 Entremets: 
Stewed-peas, a la Francaise. Bavarian strawberry cream. 

Puff-paste royals. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. June. 
Clear rice soup. 



1 Fish. 
Fillets of mackerel, a la Maitre d'Hotel. 



Poulard, a l'lvoire. [2 Removes.] Braized neck of mutton, a l'Al- 

lemande. 

2 Entries : 
Minced beef, a la Polonaise. Tourte of godiveau, a la Financiere. 



Second Course. 
Roast Duckling. 



Cauliflowers with white sauce. Duchess loaves with apricot-jam, 

Timbale of ground rice. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. June. 
Bonne femme soup. 



1 Fish. 
Broiled trout, Dutch sauce. 



Roast leg of Welsh mutton. [2 Removes.] Noix of Veal, a la creme. 

2 Entrees: 
Mince of fowl, with poached eggs. Fillets of beef in their glaze, gar- 

nished with stewed-peas. 



Second Course. 
Roast fowl. 



3 Entremets. 
Asparagus with sauce. Apricot nougats. 

Maraschino jelly with strawberries. 

33 



530 BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 8 Persons. June, 
Macaroni soup, a la Royale. 



1 Fish. 
Soles with fine-herbs. 



Pigeon pie, a l'Anglaise. [2 Removes.] Roast fillet of beef, a la Proven- 

cale. 

Croquettes of sweetbreads. 



2 Entries : 
Lamb's-feet, a la Poulette. Capilotade of fowl with mushrooms. 



Second Course. 
Lobster, au gratin. [2 Roasts.'] • Green-goose. 



1 
Peach fritters. 



4 Entremets : 
Cherry tart. Green-peas plain. 

Custards in glasses. Aspic, a la Reine. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. June. 

Soup, a la Colbert. 



1 Fish. 

Paupiettes of fillets of gurnets, a la Cardinal. 



Braized ham, with spinach. [2 Removes.] Roast fillet of veal, a l'Anglaise. 



Cr6ustades a la Monglas. 



2 Entries: 
Fricassee of chickens, a la Bour- Mutton cutlets, a la Maintenon. 

guignoune. 



Second Course. 
Plovers' eggs plain. [2 Roasts.] Guinea fowls. 



1 Remove. 
Souffle of rice. 



4 Entremets : 
Stewed peas, a la Francaise. Vol'au'vent garnished with a Mac6- 

Braized lettuces, a l'Espagnole. doine of fruits. 

Noyau cream. 



FOR JUNE. 531 

Dinner for 8 Persons. June. 
Soup, a la Ferney. 



1 Fish. 
Spitchcocked eels, with piquante sauce. 



Ox-piths fried in batter, with Tomata sauce. 



Chickens, a l'Espagnole. [2 Removes.'] Boiled neck of mutton. 

2 Entries. 
Lamb cutlets bread-crumbed, with Young rabbits sautes with fine-herbs, 
stewed-peas. 



Second Course. 
Italian salad. [2 Roasts.] Quails. 



1 Remove. 
Fritters, a la Dauphine. 



4 Entremets : 
French beans, a la cr&me. Peach jelly. 

Crayfish, a la Poulette. Queen's cakes. 



Dinner for 18 Persons. June. 
Quenelles of rabbit in consomme. [2 Soups."] Bisque of lobsters, a la Stanley. 



Crimped turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Mullets, a la Chesterfield. 



"White bait. 



Chickens, a l'Allemande. [2 Removes.] Calf's-head, a la Marigny. 



6 Entrees: 

Croustades of soft roes of mackerel, a Fillets of ducklings with green-peas- 
la Ravigotte. Salmis of quails, a la Bordelaise. 

Chartreuse, a la Parisienne. Veal cutlets larded, with a puree of 

Epigramme of lambs' sweetbreads, a endives, 

la Macedoine. 



Second Course. 
Turkey-poult. [2 Roasts.] Leverets. 



Ramequins in cases. [2 Removes.] Iced pudding, a la Prince of 

Wales. 

6 Entremets: 
Asparagus with sauce. Ginger cream. 

New potatoes, a la creme. Vol'au'vent of strawberries and 

Cherry jelly garnished with cherries. cream. 

Parisian nougats. 



532 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 18 Persons. June. 
Consomme" with lettuces andpeas. [2 Soups.] Macaroni, a la Medicis. 



Salmon trout with parsley and [2 Fishes.] Sturgeon, a la Beaufort. 

batter sauce. 

Bouch6es of whitings, a la Pompadour. 

Poulards, a la Belle-vue. [2 Removes.] Haunch of venison. 



6 Entries : 
Mazarine of fat livers, a la Toulouse. Mutton cutlets braized, a la Niver- 
Chartreuse of vegetables, garnished naise. 

with tendons of veal. Fillets of fowls, a la Valencay. 

Lamb's-ears, a la Tortue. 
Boudins of rabbit, a la Heine. 



Green-goose. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Large meringue with iced cream. [2 Removes.] 



Quails. 



Compiegne cake. 



8 Entremets : 
French-beans sautes with butter. Pine-apple cheese, a la Chantilly. 

Stewed-peas, a la Francaise. Fanchonettes with vanille. 

Red-currant jelly garnished with Flan of cherries, 

peaches. Aspic of prawns. 

Plovers' eggs. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. July 
Vermicelli clear soup. 



Fried flounders. 



[2 Souvs.] Brown purSe of turnips, a la 

Conde. 

[2 Fishes.] Char, a la Gehoise. 



Noukles, with Parmesan. 



Fillet of beef, Chevreuil sauce. [2 Removes.] Chickens and tongue, a la Prin- 

taniere. 

4 Entries: 
Cutlets of breasts of lamb, a la Ville- Quenelles of lobster, a la Vertpre. 

roi, with French-beans. Pate-chaud of young rabbits with 

Compote of pigeons with peas. fine-herbs. 



Peahen larded. 
Parmesan fritters. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Ducklings. 
Polish Baba. 



4 Entremets: 
Young broad-beans, a la Poulette. Peaches with rice, a la Conda. 

Aspic of prawns, a la Russe. Puff-paste platts. 



FOR JULY. 533 

Dinner for 12 Persons. July. 
Consomme soup, a la Xavier. [2 Soups.} Green-peas soup, a la Fabert. 



Whitebait. [2 Fishes.] Salmon, a l'Ecossaise. 



Shrimp patties. 



Poulard, a laGodard. [2 Removes.'] Necks of lamb larded, a la Ma- 

cedoine. 

4 Entries : 
Mutton cutlets bread-crumbed and Tendons of veal on a border of vege- 

broiled, with shalot gravy. tables, garnished with peas. 

Vol'au'vent, a la Financiere. Blanquette of fowls, a l'ecarlate. 



Second Course. 
Guinea fowls. [2 Roasts.] Quails. 



Omelette soufflee. [2 Removes.] Coburg cake. 



4 Entremets: 
Cucumbers farcied, a l'essence. Tourte of currants and raspberries. 

Stewed-peas, a la Francaise. Blanc-manger. 



Dinner for 14 Persons. July. 

Spring soup. [2 Soups.] Cream of pearl-barley, a la Prin- 

taniere. 

Crimped pe.ch, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.] Salmon, a la Marechale. 



Rissoles of lamb's brains, a l'Allemande. 



Chickens a la Florentine. [2 Removes.] Small ribs of beef, a la Fla- 

mande. 

4 Entries : 
Grenadins of veal with stewed-peas. Boudins of whitings, with a ragout 
Cutlets of pigeons, a la Dauphine, gar- of crayfish tails. 

nished withBourguignotte ragout. Fricassee of chickens, a la Paysanne. 



Second Course. 
Capon. [2 Roasts.] Leverets. 



Puff-paste ramequins. [2 Removes.] Soufll6 pudding of semolina. 



4 Entremets : 
Lobster salad, with plovers' eggs, Artichokes, a la Lyonnaise. 

Charlotte Russe, garnished with fruits. Vol'au'vent of cherries. 



534 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 14 Persons. July. 
Brunoise-Printaniere. [2 Soups.] Bisque of crayfish, a l'Ancienne. 



John-Dory, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Trout, a la Chevaliere. 



Croquettes of ox-palates. 



Braized ham with broad-beans. [2 Removes.] Poulards, a la Perigord. 

4 Entries: 

Mutton cutlets, a la Pompadour, gar- Lamb's-sweetbreads larded, with pu- 
nished with a Macedoine. ree of artichokes. 

Scollops of quails with fumet sauce Fillets of fowls, a la Belle-vue with 
and truffles, garnished with small Supreme and cucumbers, 

croustades of puree. 



Second Course. 
Spring-chickens. [2 Roasts.] Ducklings. 



Dauphine fritters. [2 Removes.] Vanilla souffles in cases. 



4 Entremets: 
French beans, a a Maitre d'Hdtel. Strawberry jelly. 

Aspic of plovers' eggs and prawns. Profitrolles, a la vanille. 



Dinner for 18 Persons. July. 

Soup a la Dauphine. [2 Soups.] Purge of asparagus, a la St. 

George. 

Crimped salmon, parsley and [2 Fishes.] Fresh-water trout in cases with 

butter. fine-herbs. 

Chicken patties, a la Bechamel. 



Capon, a la Toulouse. [2 Removes.] Saddle of lamb, alaPrintaniere. 



6 Entries. 

Chartreuse of vegetables, garnished Scollops of fowls with cucumbers 

with braized quails, fumet sauce. and Supreme sauce. 

Turban of fillets of rabbits, a la Royale, Mutton cutlets braized, garnished 

Financiere ragout. with asparagus peas. 

Veal kernels, a la Villeroi, garnished Fillets of ducklings, with French- 

with a puree of green-peas. beans and half glaze 



Second Course. 
Pigeons. [2 Roasts.] Turkey poults. 



Flemish gauffres. [2 Removes.] Iced pudding, a la Nesselrode. 



6 Entremets: 
Artichokes, a la Barigoule. Raspberry tartlets. 

Stewed-peas, a la Francaise. Duchess loaves, garnished with 

Pine-apple jelly. fresh currants. 

Peach cheese, a la Chantilly. 



FOR JULY. 



535 






Dinner for 18 Persons. July. 

Consomme of fowl with que- [2 Soups. ] Puree of green-peas, a la Ferney. 

nelles. 

Water-souchet of fillets of soles. [2 Fishes.'] Sturgeon, a la Cardinal. 



Kromeskys of lobsters. 



Poulards, a la Parisienne. 



[2 Removes.] 



Haunch of venison. 



6 Entries. 

Mazarine of fillets of whitings, a la Patechaudof leverets, a la Perigueux. 

Venitienne. Scollops of sweetbreads, a la Mare- 

Lamb-cutlets, breadcrumbed, with chale, with puree of mushrooms. 

puree of artichokes. Fricassee of spring chickens, a la 

Fillets of pigeons, a la de Luynes, urguignonne. 

with a Macedoine of vegetables. 



Green-goose. 
Brioche with cheese (hot). 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.'] 



Quails. 



[2 Removes.] Vol'au'vent of currants and 
raspberries, with an iced 
custard-croam. 



8 Entremets. 



Young broad-beans, a la Poulette. 
Cucumbers farcied, with Espagnole 

sauce. 
Italian salad in a border of aspic-jelly. 
Darne of salmon, with Montpellier 

butter. 



Bavarian cream of pistachios. 
Panachee jelly. 

Almond gauffres, filled with straw- 
berries and cream. 
German tourte of apricots. 



536 BILLS OF FARE 



Ball Supper for 300 Persons. Summer. 

8 Grosse-pieces, on ornamental stands. 
2 Raised pies of fowls and ham with 2 Hams ornamented with aspic jelly. 

truffles, garnished with jelly. ( 2 Boars'-heads, ornamented with as- 

2 Gelantines of poulards, with aspic- pic-jelly. 

jelly. 



48 Cold entries, dished up on silver plates : 
6 Groups of plovers' eggs, garnished 6 Lobster salads. 

with aspic jelly. 6 Mayonaises of fowl. 

6 Plates of cold roast fowls with do. ' 6 Mayonaises of fillets of salmon. 

(cut upj. 6 Entrees of lamb-cutlets, a la Belle- 

6 Plates of tongue, in slices, garnished vue. 

with aspic-jelly. 6 Entries of chaud-froid fricassees 

of chickens. 



36 Cold roast fowls, and 4 tongues, to be kept in reserve for the purpose of replenishing 
those entries as they are eaten. 



8 Grosse-pieces of pastry, on stands : 
2 Savoy cakes, a la vanille. 2 Croquantes. 

2 Nougats of almonds and pistachios. 1 Baba. 1 Victoria cake. 



1 6 Entremets of small pastry, 

Cherry tartlets, Mecca loaves. 

Strawberry and apricot tartlets. Polish cakes. 

Fenchonnettes, with orange flowers. Cheese-cakes. 

Genoese cakes, with almonds. Queen's cakes. 

Apricot nougats. Small meringues. 

Florentines. Almond gauffres. 

Madelines. Puff-paste mosaic tartlets. 

Duchess loaves. Petits-choux, with pistachios. 



36 Moulds of jellies ana creams. 
6 Currant jellies, garnished with 6 Pine-apple jellies, 

peaches. 6 Macedoine jellies. 

6' Cherry jellies. 6 Strawberry Charlottes. 

6 Russian Charlottes. 



3 Soups, to be served from the buffet. 
Spring soup. Vermicelli clear soup. 

Puree of fowls or cream of barley. 



24 Hot roast fowls. 



French beans, new potatoes. 



FOR SUMMER. 537 



Public Dinner for 300 Persons. Summer. 

Spring soup. [3 Soups.] Puree of fowls, a la Reine. 

Turtle soup ("full and clear).* 



24 Dishes of Fish. 
6 Turbots, with lobster sauce. 6 Fillets of mackerel, a la Ravigotte. 

6 Salmon, Dutch and parsley sauces. 6 Fried fillets of soles. 



8 Haunches of venison. 48 Roast fowls ("hot). 



48 Hot Entries : 
8 Of sweetbreads larded, with puree of 8 Of lamb-cutlets breadcrumbed, 

artichokes. with Macedoine. 

8 Of beefsteaks, a la Francaise. 8 Of cutlets of quails, a la Mare- 

8 Of scollops of fowls with cucumbers. chale, with stewed peas. 

8 Of chickens, a la Marengo. 



48 Cold Entries: 
8 Of lobster salads. 8 Of Mayonaises of chickens. 

8 Of fillets of fowls, a la Belle-vue. 8 Of sliced galantine with jelly, 

8 Of salads of fillets of soles and salmon. 8 Of aspics of plovers' eggs. 



12 Grosse pieces, on ornamental stands : 
3 Raised pies, garnished with aspic- 3 Groups of large perigord truffles, 
jelly. 3 Hams garnished with aspic-jelly. 

3 GrouDS of large crayfish. 



12 Grosse pieces of pastry, on stands : 
3 Brioches, with dried cherries and 3 Cobourg cakes (in high moulds^, 
candied citron ("hot). (hot). 

3 Nougats, a la Parisienne. 
Grosse meringues, a la Chantilly. 



48 Entremets of small pastry, on ornamental stands : 
8 Of Genoese cakes, with pistachios 8 Of currant and raspberry tartlets, 
and apple-jelly. 8 of Profitrolles (half with coffee, 

8 Of apricot puff-paste tartlets. half with chocolate). 

8 Of Parisian loaves. 8 Of Darioles, a la vanille. 



48 Moulds of jellies and creams: 
8 Peach jellies. 8 Macedoine jellies, 

8 Cherry jellies. 8 Bavarian strawberry creams. 

8 Italian creams and blanc-mangers. 8 Penachee jellies (with apricot 

cream in the centre). 



48 Entremets of dressed vegetables : 
12 Of new potatoes, a la creme. 12 Of artichokes, a l'ltalienne. 

12 Of stewed-peas, a la Francaise. 12 Of French-beans, a la Maitre 

d'Hotel. 

* Serve 12 tureens of turtle, 6 of clear, and 6 of full-dressed turtle; 6 tureens of spring soup, 
and 6 of puree of fowl, a la Reine. 



538 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 
Desclignac soup. [2 Soups."] Purge of carrots, a la Crgcy. 

Soles, a la Colbert. [2 Fishes.] Red mullets a l'ltalienne. 



Anchovy patties, a la Mazarin. 



Capon, a la Milanaise. [2 Removes.] Braized necks of mutton lar- 

ded, a l'Allemande. 

4 Entries: 
Blanquette of lamb's-sweetbreads, a Salmis of grouse, a la Bordelaise. 
la Paysanne. Tourte of whitings, a la Dauphine. 



Mutton cutlets, a la Proven9ale. 



Chickens. 



Fondu of Parmesan. 



Second Cocbse. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Wheatears. 



[2 Removes.] Viennoise pudding. 



4 Entremets : 
Vegetable marrow, a la creme. Codling cheese, a la Chantilly. 

Potatoes, a la Hollandaise. Genoese cakes with pistachios. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 
Macaroni in consomm.6. [2 Soups.] Purge of spinach, a laBeauveau. 



Water-souchet of perch. [2 Fishes.] Slices of salmon broiled, with 

capers sauce. 

Patties, au jus. 



Roast saddle of mutton. [2 Removes.] Grouse pie, a l'Ecossaise. 



A Entries. 
Fricassee of chickens, a la Financiere. Members of ducks, a la Nivernaise. 
Epigramme of lamb, with a purge of Fillets of leverets larded, with Poi- 
potatoes. vrade sauce. 



Guinea fowls. 
Omelette with apricot. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Ruffs and Reeves. 
Cherry bread. 



4 Entremets: 
French beans, a la Poulette. Flan of peaches. 

Artichokes with white sauce. Coffee cream. 



FOR AUGUST. 



539 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 
Consomme 1 of fowl with quenelles. [2 Soups.] Hodge-Podge, a l'Ecossaise. 



Fried whitings, Dutch sauce. [2 Fishes.'] Char, a la Parisienne. 



Roast haunch of venison. 



Chartreuse, a la Cardinal. 
Fricandeau, a la Jardiniere. 



Oyster patties. 



[2 Removes.] Capon au gros-sel. 



4 Entries : 

Members of chickens, a la Marechale. 
Mutton cutlets with puree of turnips. * 



Peahen larded. 
Custard fritters. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Grouse. 



[2 Removes.] Apple pudding with apricot jam. 



4 Entremets : 
Vegetable marrow, a l'Espagnole. 
Spinach with cream. 



Blanc-manger. 
Florentines. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 
Julienne soup. [2 Soups.] Oyster soup, a la Plessy. 



Brill and Shrimp sauce. [2 Fishes.] Trout, al'Aurore. 



Lobster patties. 



Roast capon, a la Financiere. [2 Removes.] Necks of red deer, a la St. An- 

drew. 

4 Entries: 
Grouse, a la Richelieu. Ox-cheek braized, a la Jardiniere. 

Quenelles of fowls, a la Toulouse. Timbale of raviolis, a la Romaine. 



Ducklings. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Wheatears. 



Pancakes with apricot. [2 Removes.] Iced biscuits in cases. 



4 Entremets: 
Cucumbers, a la Poulette. Kirschenwasser jelly. 

Artichokes, a la Provencale. Meringues with cream and straw- 

berries. 






540 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 
Brunoise soup. [2 Soups.], Grouse soup, a l'Ecossaise. 



Crimped salmon, Dutch, sauce. [2 Fishes.] Matelotte of soles, a la Plessy. 
Tourte of Godiveau, a la Ciboulette. 



Capon, a la Chivry. [2 Removes.] Breast of veal, a la "Windsor. 



4 Entries : 
Crdustade- of bread, garnished with Fillets of mutton larded, garnished 

scollops of fat livers, a l'Epicuri- with fried potatoes, Poivrade 

cime. sauce. 

Chickens sautes with fine-herbs. Fillets of rabbits, a la D'Uxelles. 



Turkey-poults. 
Ratafia souffle. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Leveret. 
Rice croquettes. 



4 Entremets: 
Broiled mushrooms. Eggs a la neige, flavored with orange- 

Stewed peas, a la Francaise. flowers. 

Pears in tartlets (whole). 



J 



Dinner for 12 Persons. August. 

Consomme with Italian paste. [2 Soups.] Soup of gratinated crusts, a la 

Fernense. 

Fried fillets of trout. [2 Fishes.] Stewed carp, a l'Anglaise. 



Oysters fried in batter. 



Roast neck of venison. 



[2 Removes.] Chicken pie, a la Reine. 



4 Entries : 
Tendons of veal, a la Dauphine, with Braized carbonnades of mutton a la 

stewed peas. Richelieu. 

Fillets of fowls with truffles, Supreme Salmis of grouse, a l'Ancienne. 

sauce. 



Dottrel. 
Ramequins. 



Second Coubse. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Guinea-fowls. 
Krapfen with apricot. 



4 Entremets : 
Mac6doine of vegetables. Cond<j cakes. 

Russian salad. Plum Charlotte. 



FOR SEPTEMBER. 541 

Dinner for 24 Persons, Russian style. September. 

Macaroni, a la St. Pierre. [3 Soups.] Jardiniere clear soup. 

Turtle. 



Fillets of salmon, a la Ravigotte. [3 Fishes.} Pike, a la Chambord. 
Turbot, lobster sauce. 



Kromeskys of oysters. 



Ham with French-beans. [3 Removes.'] Chickens, a la Belle-vue. 

Haunch of venison. 



6 Entries : 
2 Of mutton cutlets, a la Soubise. 2 Of partridges with fine-herbs. 

2 Of quenelles of fowl with essence. 



Second Course. 
Quails. [3 Roasts.] Capon. 

Grouse. 

Fondu of Parmesan. [3 Removes.'] Brown-bread pudding. 
Iced cake, a la Stanley. 



8 EntremSts. 
2 Of artichokes, a la Provencale. 2 Of peach-jellies. 

2 Of apricot tartlets. 2 Of Russian salads, 



Dinner for 24 Persons, Russian style. September. 

Soup a la Colbert. [3 Soups.] White puree of turnips. 

Giblet soup. 



Fillets of gurnets, a l'ltalienne. [3 Fishes.] Fried soles. 

Crimped cod with oyster sauce. 



Patties, a la Bechamel. 



Boiled leg of mutton. [4 Removes.] Black game, a la Norwegienne. 
2 Roast geese, a l'Anglaise. 



6 Entries. 
2 Of sweetbreads larded, with puree of 2 Of cutlets of young partridges, a 
endives. la Marechale. 

2 Of haricot of venison, a la Nivernaise. 



Second Course. 
Wheatears. [3 Roasts.] Pigeons. 

Poulard. 



Parmesan fritters. [3 Removes.] Pancakes souffles. 

Pudding, a la Nesselrode. 



8 Entremets : 
2 Of French-beans sautes with butter. 2 Of pears with rice, a la Conde. 
2 Of scolloped lobsters au gratin. 2 Of Vol'au'vents of greengages. 



542 



( 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 16 Persons. September. 
Vermicelli, a la Royale. [2 Soups."] Ox-tail soup. 



Cod, a la Bechamel. 



[2 Fishes.] Broiled haddocks, Dutch sauce. 



Fowls and tongue with cauli- [2 Removes.] Haunch of red deer, a la Kin- 
flowers. naird. 

6 Entries: 
Fillets of grouse, Dreadcrumbed, a la Croustade, garnished with lamb's- 

Maitre d'Hotel. brains, with Matelotte sauce. 

Mutton patties, a la Windsor. Tourte of scollops of lobsters, a la 

Minced beef, a la Polonaise. Cardinal. 

Chickens sautes, a la Lyonnaise. 



Black-game. 
Sweet omelette. 



Tomatas au gratin. 
Fried artichokes. 
Lemon-jelly, a la Russe. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Partridges. 
Chestnut pudding. 



6 Entremets: 

Bavarian chocolate cream. 
D'Artois of apple marmalade. 
Petits-choux, with almonds. 



Dinner for 16 Persons. September. 
Purge of endives, a la creme. [2 Soups.] Giblet soup, a l'Irlandaise. 



Eels, a la Tartare. 
Veal and ham pie. 



[2 Fishes.] Salmon, with lobster sauce. 



[2 Removes.] Braized goose, a 1' Estouffade. 



6 Entries. 
Ox-piths in small cases, with fine-herbs. Partridges, a la Perigueux. 
Croustades, a la Milanaise. Quenelles of whitings, with crayfish 

Vol' au' vent of lamb's-feet, a la Pou- sauce, 

lette. 

Blanquette of fowl with mushrooms. 



Capon. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Puff-paste ramequins. [2 Removes.] 



Leveret. 



Tapioca pudding. 



6 EntremSts: 
Spinach au jus. Noyau-jelly. 

Vegetable marrow, a la Bechamel. Burnt-almond cream. 

Charlotte of apricots. Cheese-cakes. 



■ 

FOR OCTOBER. 543 



Dinner for 12 Persons. October. 
Julienne soup. [2 Soups.] Mock turtle soup. 



Cod'a head, baked. [2 Fishes.'] Fillets of soles, a la Dieppoise. 

Ham, with spinach. [2 Removes. ] Roast fillet of veal, a la Mace- 

doine. 

4 Entries : 
Supreme of fowls, a la Talleyrand. Mutton cutlets, a l'Indienne. 

Oyster patties, a la Sefton. Fillets of woodcocks, a l'Ancienne. 



Second Course. 
Hare. [2 Roasts.] Pheasants 



Brioche, with cheese. [2 Removes.] Souffle of chocolate. 



4 Entremets: 
Mushrooms, a la Provencale. German apple tourte. 

Scolloped crayfish. Pine-apple jelly. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. October. 
Puree of spinach, a la Conti. [2 Soups.] Soup, a la Paysanne. 



Fried soles, shrimp sauce. [2 Fishes.] Crimped cod, a la Seville. 



Rcast saddle of mutton. [2 Removes.] Partridge pie, a l'Anglaise. 



4 Entries: 
Fillets of teal, a la Provencale. Scollopes of beef sautees, with oys- 

Ballotines of legs of chickens, a la ter sauce. 

Financiere. Croquettes of sweetbreads, a l'Alle- 

mande. 



Second Course. 
Larks. [2 Roasts.] Grouse. 



Omelette, with Parmesan. [2 Removes.] Pancakes, with apricot. 



4 Entremets: 
Croutes, with mushrooms. Damson cheese, a la Chantilly. 

Macaroni, au gratin. Apple mosaic tartlets. 



544 BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 12 Persons. October 

Consomme", with rice. [2 Soups.] Brown purge of turnips. 



Brill, with lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.'} Cod's sounds, a la Provencale. 



Braized ribs of beef, a la mode. [2 Removes.] Roast sucking pig, a l'Anglaise. 



4 Entries: 
Scollops of young rabbits in cases, Salmis of partridges, with mush- 
with line-herbs. rooms. 

Chickens, with Lasagnes, a l'ltalienue 
Fricandeau, with puree of endives. 



Second Course. 
Poulard. [2 Roasts.] Snipes. 



Croquettes of chestnuts. [2 Removes.] Pine apple pudding. 



4 Entremets 
Brussels sprouts, dressed witb butter. PufF-paste Royals. 
Scolloped mussels, au gratin. Apple charlotte. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. October. 
Consomme with Lasagnes. [2 Soups.] Calves'-tails Boup, a la Royale. 



Fried smelts, anchovy sauce. [2 Fishes.] Haddocks, egg sauce. 



Boiled leg of mutton, a l'An- [2 Removes.] Braized pheasants, with cabba- 

glaise. ges. 

4 Entries: 
Krorneskys of oysters, a la Russe. Boudins of rabbit, a la D'Artois. 
Pork cutlets, a la sauce Robert. Chickens sautes, a l'Algerienne. 



Second Course. 
Hare. [2 Roasts.] Partridges. 



Spanish puffs. [2 Removes.] Apple pudding. 



4 Entremets : 
Potatoes, a la Maitre d'H6tel. Nougats of apricot. 

Tomatas, with fine-herbs, au gratin. Coffee cream. 



FOR OCTOBER. 



545 



Dinner for 12 Persons. October. 
Brilnoise soup. [2 Soups.'] Hare soup,- a la St. George. 



Fillets of whitings, a la Royale. [2 Fishes.] Baked gurnets, with. Piquanto 

sauce. 

Capon, with rice. [2 Removes.] Roast haunch of mutton. 



4 Entries. 
Salmis of woodcocks, a la Minute. Fillets of beef sautes in their glaze. 

Polpettes of rabbit, a l'ltalienne. Mince and grill of fowl, a la Bechamel. 



Larks. 
Coburg cake. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Pheasants. 

Iced pudding, a la Duchess 
of Kent. 



4 Entremets: 
Spinach, au jus. Apples, a la Portuguaise. 

Eggs brouilles, with truffles. Russian lemon-jelly. 



Dinner for 12 Persons. October. 
Flemish soup. [2 Soups.] Puree of pheasant, a la Conde. 



Slices of Cod, broiled, a la Mai- [2 Fishes.] Fillets of gurnets, a l'ltalienne. 
tre d'Hotel. 



Chickens, a l'lvoire. 



[2 Removes.] Haunch of roebuck, a l'Alle- 
mande. 



4 Entries : 
Veal cutlets, bread-crumbed, with pu- Partridges, a la Bresilienne. 

ree of spinach. Quenelles of fowl, a la Marechale. 

Haricot of mutton, a la Nivernaise. 



Black game. 
Parmesan fritters. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Golden plovers. 
Ginger pudding. 



4 Entremets: 
Jerusalem artichokes, a la Bechamel. Punch jelly. 
Portugal onions, a l'Espagnole. Genoese cakes, a la Chantillly. 

u 



546 BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 18 Persons. November. 

Julienne. [2 Soups.] Bisque of snipes, a la Bonne- 

bouche. 

Crimped skate fried, with capers' [2 Fishes.'] Matelotte of carp and eels. 

sauce. 

Pheasants, a la Financiere. [2 Removes.] Braized rump of beef, a la Fla- 

mande. 

6 Entries: 

Pate-chaudof partridges, a la Chasseur. Blanquette of fowl, with truffles. 
Chartreuse, a la Parisienne. Braized carbonnades of mutton, a la 

Pork cutlets, a L'Aurore. Bretonne. 

Fillets of grouse, with fumet sauce. 



Second Course. 
Capon. [2 Roasts.] Teal. 



Cheese fondu. [2 Removes.] Apple fritters. 



6 Entremets : 
Macaroni, a la Napolitaine. Russian charlotte, a la vanille. 

Turnips glace?, with sugar. Darioles, with ratafias. 

Orange-jelly, a l'Anglaise. Bread-and-butter pastry. 



Dinner for 18 Persons. November. 

Consomme - of pheasant, with [2 Soups.] Cream of pearl barley, a la Vic- 
quenelles. — toria. 

Spitchcocked eels. [2 Fishes.] Crimped haddocks, Dutch sauce. 



Roast haunch of mutton. [2 Removes.] Black game, a la Montagnarde. 



6 Entries: 
Pat6-chaud of ox-palates, a l'ltalienne. Quenelles of fowl, a la D'Orsay. 
Chartreuse of tendons of veal, gar- Mutton cutlets, a la Provencale. 
nished with a Jardiniere. Scollops of fowls, with truffles. 

Fritot of chickens, with Tomata sauce. 



Second Course. 
Wild ducks. [2 Roasts.] Partridges. 



Krapfen. [2 Removes.] Coffee souffle. 



6 Eniremcts : 
Group of Perigord truffles. Mirlitons, with apricot. 

Brocoli, with Parmesan cheese. Lemon-jelly in quarters. 

Pear with rice, a la Conde. Maraschino Bavarian cream. 



FOR NOVEMBER. 547 

Dinner for 18 Persons. November. 
Macaroni clear soup. [2 Soups. ] Puree of celery, a la creme. 



Fillets of perch, fried, Dutch [2 Fishes.'} Carp, a la Chambord. 

sauce. 

Poulards, a la Perigueux. [2 Removes.'] Fillets of mutton, larded with 

Poivrade sauce. 

6 Entrees : 
Cruiistades of rice filled with puree of Fillets of rabbits, a la D'Uxelles. 

woodcocks. garnished with Soubise puree. 

Tourte of Godiveau. a la Financiere. Supreme of fowls, a l'ecarlate. 
Scollops of pheasant, a la Victoria. Mutton cutlets, with puree of potatoes. 



Second Course. 
Larks. [2 Roasts.] Grouse. 



Custard fritters. [2 Removes.] Apple souffle. 



6 Entremets: 
Salsifis, with white sauce. Calf's-feet jelly, with grapes. 

Muslii'oom?, witli flue-herbs, au gratin. Timbale of ground rice. 

Cuiracao, Bavarian cream. PuA'-paste walnuts. 



Dinner for 18 Persons. November. 
Scotch broth. [2 Soups.] Hare soup, a l'Anglaise. 



Fried slices of cod, oyster sauce. [2 Fish**.] Baked pike, with Italian sa 



Roast fillet of beef, Poivrade [2 Removes.] Braized goose, a la Flamande. 

sauce. 

6 lv„tr>' ps : 
Boudins of partridge, a la Perigueux. Scollops of mutton, with oyster sauce 
Pork cutlets, broiled, with Tomata Widgeon, ;\ L'Americaine. 

sauce. Cruustailes of marrow, with fine 

Curry of rabbits, a l'Indienne. herbs. 



Secoxd Coukse. 
Golden Plovers. [2 Roasts.] Pheasants. 



Ramequins. [2 Removes.] Iced pudding, a la Parisiihme. 



6 Entremets. 
Braized celery, a PEspagnole. Pine-apple cheese, a la Chantilly. 

Scolloped muscles. Mecca loaves. 

Noyau jelly. Apples and rice, with apricot. 



54:8 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 8 Persons. November. 
Soup, a la Paysanne. 



Turbot, lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.'] Salmon cutlets, a la Maintenon. 



Roast leg of mutton. [2 Removes.'] Lark pudding, a la Melton 

Mowbray. 

Rissoles, a la Milanaise. 



2 Entries : 
Figs' feet, a la Ste. Menehould. Cbicken sautes witb fine-berbs. 



Second Cocbse. 
Fried potatoes. [2 Roasts.] Pheasant. 



Apricot souffle, to remove the roast. 



4 Entremets : 
Croutes with truffles, a la Piemontaise. Pudding, a la Viennoise. 
German salad. Almond cakes, a la cr£me. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. November. 
Puree of rabbits, a la Chantilly. 



Broiled herrings, mustard sauce. [2 Fishes.] Scollops of cod, a la Hollandaise. 



Capon, with nouilles. [2 Removes.] Braized neck of mutton larded, 

a la Soubise. 

Calf's brains, fried in batter. 



2 Entrees. 
Kidneys bread-crumbed, a la Maitre Cutlets of partridges, a l'AlgSri- 
d'Hotel. enne. 



SECOND Couese. 
Macaroni, au gratin. [2 Roasts.] Wild ducks. 



Orange fritters, to remove the roast. 



4 Entremtts: 
Celery, a la Villeroi. Pear cheese, a la creme. 

Poached eggs, on anchovy toast. Love's wells, garnished with preserve. 






FOR NOVEMBER. 549 

Dinner for 3 Persons. November. 
Pearl barley soup, a la Princesse. 



Salmon, a la Tartare. [2 Fishes."] Paupiettes of fillets of soles, a 

la Ravigotte. 

Roast neck of venison. [2 Removes.'] Calf's-head, a l'Anglaise. 



Black puddings. 



2 Entries: 
Boudins of pheasant, a la Dauphine Fricassee of chickens, a la Romaine. 
with Soubise sauce. 



Second Course. 
Scolloped oysters. [2 Roasts.] Woodcocks. 



Iced rice pudding, a la Cintra, to remove the roast. 



4 EntremSts: 
Eggs, a l'Aurore. Apple cheese, with custard. 

Spinach, with cream. Harry the Eighth's shoe-strings. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. November. 

Mulligatawny soup. 



Fillets of haddock, h, la Royale. [2 Fishes.] Cod, a la creme. 



Boiled turkey, with oyster [2 Removes.] Roast sucking pig. 

sauce. 

Croquettes of ox-palates. 



2 Entries: 
Crepinettes of partridges alaD'Estaing. Fricandeau, with purge of tomatas. 



Second Course. 
Italian salad. [2 Roasts.] Hare. 



Iced biscuits, in small cases. 



4 Entremets : 
Brussels sprouts sautes, a la Maitre Potatoes, a la Hollandaise. 

d'Hotel. Orange pudding. 

Meringues, a la creme. 






550 BILLS OF FARE 

Dinner for 8 Persons. November. 
Cream of rice, a la Chasseur. 



Fried Smelts. [2 Fishes.} Lampreys, a la Foley. 



Goose, a la Dauphinoise. [2 Removes.} Fillets of red deer, a la Royale. 



Patties, aujus. 



2 Entries: 
Sheep's tongues, a l'ecarlate, with Pigeons, a la Duchesse. 

spinach. 



Second Course. 
Pheasant. [2 Roasts.} Snipes. 



Pear fritters, to remove the roast. 



4 Entremets: 
Salsifis fried in batter. Rice cake, with almonds. 

Eggs, a la tripe. Vol-au-vent of apricots. 



Dinner for 8 Persons. November. 
Puree of lentilles, a la Soubise. 



Fried soles, [2 Fishes.} Tench, a la Hollandaise. 



Ham, with spinach. [2 Removes.} Roast turkey, a l'Anglaise. 



Bouch£es of larks, a la Pompadour. 



2 Entries : 
Fillets of partridges, a la Plessy. Scollops of mutton sautees, with olives. 



Second Course. 
Russian salad. [2 Roasts.} Widgeon. 



Vol-au-vent of damsons, with iced cream, to remove the roast. 



4 Entremets : 
Eggs, a la Dauphine. Pomegranate jelly. 

Endives, with cream. Macaroni cake. 



FOR DECEMBER 



551 



Dinner for 14 Persons. December. 

Julienne. [2 Soups.] Puree of rabbits, a la Maitre 

d' Hotel. 

Crimped slices of pike, Dutcb [2 Fishes.] Broiled turbot, a la Provencale. 

sauce. 

Turkey, with celery sauce. [3 Removes.] Haunch of roebuck, a la Marie 

Stuart. 

Oyster patties, a la Sefton 



Mutton cutlets, a la Russe. 
Partridges, a la Perigueux. 



4 Entries : 

Fricassee of chickens, a la Dauphine. 
Noix of Veal, a la Macedoine. 



Pheasants. 
Ratifia souffle. 



Seakale, with white sauce. 
Group of large truffles. 
Orange jelly, a la Francalse. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Snipes. 
Chestnut pudding. 



6 Entremets: 

Vanilla Bavarian cream. 
Millefeuilles cake, a la Chantilly. 
Apricots, a la Conde (preserved). 



Dinner for 14 Persons. December. 

Consomme of game, with lasag- [2 Soups.] Puree of lentils, a la Brunoise. 

nes. 

John Dory, with lobster sauce. [2 Fishes.] Whitings, with fine-herbs. 



Ham, with Brussels sprouts. [2 Removes.] Roast turkey, a la Chipolata. 



White Puddings, a la Royale. 



4 Entries. 
Veal cutlets, a la Zingara. Fillets of grouse, a la Dauphine, 

Timbale of raviolis, a la Napolitaine. with Piquante sauce. 

Civet of hare, with mushrooms. 



Wild ducks. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Iced pudding, a la Einnaird. [2 Removes.] 



Partridges. 
Mince pies. 



6 Entremets : 
Jerusalem artichokes, a l'Espagnole. Lemon jelly, a la Francaise. 
Croquettes of potatoes. Cherry tartlets. 

Pistachio cream. Tourte of Frangipane. 






552 



BILLS OF FARE 



Dinner for 14 Persons. December. 
Brfinoise soup. [2 Soups.] Puree of grouse, a la Condg. 



Baked pike, with Piquante sauce. [2 Fishes.] Whitings, a la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

Capon, a la Perigueux. [2 Removes.] Roasted ham, a la St. James. 

Rissoles of calf's brains 



4 Entries : 

Cutlets of partridges, a la Marechale, Scollops of fat livers, with fine-herbs. 

with an essence of garlic. Boudins of fowl, a la D'Orsay. 

Mutton cutlets, with puree of endives. 



Pheasants. 



Arrow-root Souffle. 



Potatoes, au gratin. 
Croutes. with mushrooms. 
Calf's-feet jelly, with grapes. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



[2 Removes.] 



Widgeon. 
French gauflres. 



6 Entremets: 

Bavarian rasberry cream (preserved). 
Timbale of Nouilles, with vanilla. 
Florentines, with greengage jam. 



Dinner for 1 Persons 
Macaroni, a la Rovale. 



December. 



[2 Soups.] Soup of tendons of veal, a la 

Jardiniere. 

Fried fillets of gurnets, Shrimp [2 Fishes.] Soles in Matelotte Normande. 

sauce. 

Roast pheasants, a l'ltalienne. [2 Removes.] Mutton pie, a l'Anglaise. 



Muscles, fried in batter. 



4 Entries 
Tendons of veal, a la Villeroi, with a Salmis of wildfowl, a la Provencale. 

Nivernaise ragout. Fillets of beef sautes, with an es- 

Supreme of fowls, a l'ecarlate, with a sence of anchovies. 

puree of truffles. 



Hare. 



Second Course. 
[2 Roasts.] 



Souffles of vanilla, in small [2 Removes.] 
cases. 



Partridges. 
Ginger pudding. 



Spinach, au jus. 

Fried potatoes. 

Queen's cakes, with apricot. 



6 Entremets : 

Pine-apple jolly. 

Flan of pears. 

Polish puff-paste cakes. 



FOR DECEMBER. 553 



Dinner for 6 Persons. December. 

Vermicelli clear soup. 



1 Fish. 
Brill, with shrimp sauce. 



2 Removes. 
Capon, with brocoli, a la Bechamel. Roast fillet of beef, Poivrade sauce. 



2 Entries : 
Puree of pheasant, with poached eggs. Scollops of sweetbreads, with Sou- 

bise sauce. 



Second Course. 
Roast partridges. 



3 Entremets: 
Omelette, with fine-herbs. Lemon pudding. 

Blanc-manger in glasses. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. December. 
Puree of peas, a l'Anglaise. 



1 Fish. 
Cod, a la creme au gratin. 



Roast pheasant, a la Perigueux. [2 Removes.] Boiled leg of pork, a l'Anglaise. 



2 Entrees : 
Blanquette of fowl, garnished with po- Scollops of beef, with oysters, 
tato croquettes. 



Second Course. 
Roast snipes. 



3 Entremets. 
Spinach, with poached eggs. Plumpudding. 

Almond cakes, a la Chantilly. 






554 BILLS OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. December. 
Puree of endives, a la creine (preserved). 



1 Fish. 
Fillets of whitings, a la Proven9ale. 



Snipe pudding, a la D'Orsay. [2 Removes."] Braized pheasant, with celery 

sauce. 

2 Entrees: 
Chickens, a la Tartare. Mutton cutlets, with puree of chestnuts. 



Second Course. 
Roast wild duck. 



3 Entremets : 

Apricot omelette. Apple Charlotte. 

Brussels sprouts, with butter. 



Dinner for 6 Persons. December. 
ConsommS with nouilles. 



' 1 Fish. 
Smelts, au gratin. 



Roast saddle of mutton. [2 Removes.] Partridges, a la Soubise. 



2 Entries. 
Curry of rabbits, a l'Indienne. Ox-tail, a la Jardiniere. 



Second Course. 
Roast larks. 



3 Entremets: 
Potatoes soufflees. Mince pies. 

Orange jelly, a l'Anglaise. 



BILLS OF FARE. 






000 



Diner de 24 Couverts. Mai. 

3 Potages: 
Le Printanier aux pointes. La Bisque de Prawns. 

A la Tortue. 



3 Poissons: 

Le Saumon a la Regence. Le Turbot a la sauce homard. 

Les White Bait frits. 



4 Assiettes de Hors-d' (Euvres : 
2 de rissoles a la Monglas. 2 de petites croustades de laitances. 



2 Releve's : 
La Tete de Veau a la Financiere. Le Filet de Boeuf pique^ 

garni de laitues farcies. 



2 Flancs: 
Les Langues a la Macedoine. Les petits poulets a la Vertpre. 



8 Entrees: 
La Bordure de riz a la Reine. Le Pate Chaud de Cailles. 

La Timbale a la Milanaise. La Chartreuse a la Parisienne. 

Les Filets de pigeons a la Ducliesse. La Blanquette aux Concombres. 
Les Ris de Veau a la Toulouse. Les Gotelettes d'agneau aux asperges. 



Second Service. 
2 Rdts: 



Les Poulardes. 



Le Savarin. 



2 Releve's ; 



Les Canetons. 

La Spongada di Roma. 



2 Flancs: 
Le Bastion d'auguilles sur Socle. La Galantine sur Socle. 



16 Entremets: 



Les Haricdts verts au beurre. 
Les Asperges a la sauce. 
La Grosse meringue a la Chantilly. 
Le Croqu'eii'boucbe d'orangcs. 
le Bavaroix de Groseilles vertes. 
La Gelee de Champagne rose. 
L'Aspic d'CEufs de pluviers. 



Les Asperges a la sauce. 

Les Haricots verts au beurre. 

La Croquante de patiences. 

Le Chateaubriant. 

La Gelee de fraises. 

Le Bavaroix en Surprise. 

L'Aspic d'GSufs de pluviers. 



556 BILLS OF FARE. 



Concert Supper. June. 

[2 Soups.] 
La creme d'orge. Le consomme de volaille. 



24 Entries : 
6 of cold roast fowls, with aspic jelly. 3 lobster salads. 
6 of ham and tongue, with aspic jelly. 3 chicken salads. 
3 aspics of plovers' eggs, 



12 Dishes of Pastry: 
2 of strawberry tartlets. 2 of D' Artois cakes. 

2 of Genoese cakes with almonds. 2 of Duchess loaves. 

2 of Meringues, a la creme. 2 of Chocolate profitrolles. 



12 Jellies and Creams : 
2 Macedoines of fruits. 2 Russian Charlottes. 

2 Celestina Charlottes. 2 pine-apple jellies. 

2 cherry jellies. 2 Italian creams. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



557 



Diner de 24 Couverts. Juin 

3 Potages: 
A l'Imperatrice. A la puree de pois verts. 

A l'Esturgeon a la Chinoise. 



3 Poissons : 
Le Turbot a la Vatel. Les Truites a la Beaufort. 

Lo Water-Souchet de Liniandes. 



4 Hois-d' 1 OEuvres : 
2 de Niochi au Parmesan. 2 de White Bait frits. 



2 Releve's: 
Le Jambon a la Parisienne. Les Poulardes a la Chivry. 



2 Flancs: 
La petite piece de Bceuf a la d'Orleans. La Selle d'agneau a la Royale. 



8 Entries: 
' Les Boudins de houiard Cardinal. La Chartreuse de Cailles. 

Les Kis d'agneau a la Toulouse. Le Vol-au-vent a la Nesle. 

Les Filets de Canetons auxpetitspois. Le Supreme de volaille asperges. 
Les Noisettes de Veau a la de Luvnes. Les Cotelettes de mouton a la Dreux. 



Second Service. 

2 Rots: 



L'Oisillon. 



La Spongada Napolitana. 



Les Levrauts. 



2 Flancs: 

Le Jambon en surprise. 



1 6 Entremets : 



Les Asperges a la sauce. 
Les petitspois a l'Anglaise. 
L'Aspic de homard sur socle. 
Des OEufs de pluviers sur socle. 
La Gelee a la Montmorency. 
La Charlotte d' ananas. 
Le Croqu'en-bouche a la Reine. 
Le Melon en Nougat. 



Les Asperges a la sauce. 

Les petits pois a la Francaise. 

L'Aspic a la Belle-vue sur socle. 

Le Buisson de prawns sur socle. 

La Gelee Macedoine. 

Le Bavaroix au Chocolat. 

Le Gateau de Millefeuilles. 

Le Biscuit a la Florentine. 



558 






BILLS OF FARE. 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 2bth January. 

(Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages : 
A la Tete de Veau en Tortue. 
Le Quenelles de Volaille au ConsommS. 



Poissons : 
Le Sanmon, a la sauce homard. 
Les Soles frites, sauce Hollandaise. 



Releve"s : 



Le Filet de Boeuf, pique braise aux pommes de terre. 
Le Chapon a la Godard. 



Entries : 
Le Bord de pommes de terre, garni de Palais de Boeuf. 
La Chartreuse de Perdrix aux Choux. 
Les Cotelettes d'Agneau panees. 
La Blanquette de Volaille a l'ecarlate. 
Les Laperaux, sautes aux fines herbes. 
Les Petits Pates aux huitres. 



Rots. 



Les Poulets. 



Les Faisans. 



Le pudding a l'Orange. 



Relents , 



Les Omelettes Soufflees. 



Entremets: 
Les pommes de terre a la Strasbourgeoise. 
Les Epinards au jus. 
La Gelee de Marasquin. 
Le Petites Talmouses- 
Les Feuillantines de Pommes. 
La Creme aux Amandes Pralinees. 



Roast Beef and Mutton. 



Buffet. 



Boiled Round of Beef. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



559 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 30th June. 

(Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 
4 Potages : 



Printannier. 



A la Reine. 



2 a la Tortue. 



4 Poissons: 
Les Truites a la sauce Genevoise. Le Turbot, a la sauce homard. 

Les Filets de merlans frits. Les white-bait frits. 



4 Hors d'aeuvres : 
Les Petits pates de bomards. 



4 Belo-i's : 
Les Poulardes truffees a la sauce Perigueux. 
Le Jambon glace garni de feves de niarais. 
La Selle d'agneau farcie a la Royale. 
Le Filet de Bceuf pique a la Napolitaine. 



2 Les 
2 Les 
2 Les 
2 Les 
2 Les 
2 Les 
2 Les 
2 Les 



16 Entries: 
Nageoires de Tortu'; : sauce au vin de Madere. 
Filets de poulets a l'ecarlate aux concombres. 
Cotelettes de mouton braisees a la puree d'artichauds. 
Aiguillettes de canetons aux pois verts. 
Riz de veaux piques glaces a la Toulouse. 
Cotelottes de pigeons panees a l'Allemande. 
Chartreuse de tendons d'agneau a l'essence. 
Timbales de macaroni a la Mazarine. 



Side Board: 

Haunch of Venison. 

Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. 

Vegetables. 



2 de Cailles. 



Second Service. 

6 Rots: 
2 Levrauts. 



2 Les puddings a la Nesselrode. 
2 Les puddings de Cabinet. 



6 Releve'si 



2 Flancs , 



Le Pavilion Mauresque. 



Le Nougat aux amandes. 
La Sultane Parisienne. 



2 de Poulets. 

2 Les souffles a la fecule de 
pommes de terre. 

La Tcnte Militaire. 



Contre-Flancs : 

Le Biscuit de Savoie a la vanille. 
Le Croque-en-bouche historie. 



16 Entremets: 



Les truffes au vin de Champagne. 
Les artichauts a la Lyonnaise. 
Le Buisson de prawns sur socle. 
L'anguilles en volute au beurre de 

Montpellier. 
La gelee de groseilles garnie de 

pC-ches. 
Les tartelettes de framboises. 
Les Genoises aux fruits transpar- 

ents. 



Les petits pois a la Francaise. 
Les haricots verts a la poulette. 
L'aspic de blancs de volaille a la 

Belle-vue. 
La salade de legumes a l'ltalienne. 
La Macedoine de fruits. 
Le Bavaroix de chocolat panache. 
La creme aux amandes pralinees. 
LfiB petits pains a la Parisienne. 
Les gateaux de Pethiviers. 



560 BILLS OF FARE. 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 15th August, 

(Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages : 
A la croute gratinge a la Sevigne. A la puree de Gelinottes. 

A la Creme de Riz garni de quenelles au beurre d'Ecrivisses 



Poissons : 

Le Brochet garni d'une Matelotte d'Anguilles. Lss Filets de Marians frits. 

Les Truites sauce a la Pluche. 



Releve's : 
Les Poulardes, au Macaroni. Le Gigot de Mouton de sept lienres. 

Le Jambon aux Petits Pois. Les Queux de Bceufs a la Jardiniere. 



Entries: 
Les Cotelettes d'Agneau sautees aux Concombres. 
Les Filets de Lapereaux panes a l'Allemande. 
Les Cervelles de Veau niarinees frites sauce Tomates. 
Les Escalopes de Gelinottes aux Truffes. 
Les Ris de Veau aux Petits Pois. 
Les Fricassee de Poulets dans un bord de Riz. 



Rots : 
Les Canetons. Les Dindonneaux. 



Rel 'eve's 

Le Pudding de Sagou sauce au Fruit. Le Souffle au Citron. 

Les Beignets de Peches. 



Flancs : 
Le Scbapska Polonais. Le Melon en Nougat. 



Entremets : 
Le Bastion d'Anguilles au beuvre de Montpellier. 
Le Buisson de Truffes au Vin de Champagne. 
Les Concombres a la poulette. 
Les Haricots Verts sautes au beurre. 
La Gelee de Malaga. 
La Macedoine de Fruit. 
Les Tartelettes de Prunes de Reine Claude. 
Les Petits gateaux feuilletes a l'Abricot. 
Le Pain de Gibier a la gelee. 
La Salade a la Russe. 
Les Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d"H6tel. 
La Macedoine de Legumes. 
Le Bavaroix aux Framboises. 
La Creme au Cafe mocha. 
Les Pains de la Mecque a la Chantillj. 
Les Dauphines a la fleur d'Orange. 



Side Board. 
Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. Roast Venison. Riz an Consomme\ 
Eiaince de Poulet aux (Eufs poches. Haricots Verts. Currant Tart. 



I 



BILLS OF FARE. 561 



Her Majesty's Dinner. lQth August. 

( Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages 
A la Cressy. A la Tortue. A la Royale. 



Poissons: 
Le St. Pierre a la sauce Homard. Les Filets de Soles a la ravigotte. 

Les Gougeons frits sauce Hollaudaise. Le Saumon sauco aux Capres. 



Releve's : 
Le Piece de Boeuf a la Flamande. Les Poulardes et Langue aux 

La Pate-chaud de Pigeons a l'Anglaise. Chouxfleurs. 

La Noix de Veau en Bedeau. 



Entrees : 
Les Cotelettes de Mouton a La puree d'Artichauts. 
Les Boudins de Laperaux a la Richelieu. 
Les Pieds d'Agneau en Canelons farcis a l'ltalienne 
Les Filets de Poulardes k la Regence. 
Les Tendons de Veau glaces a la Macedoine. 
Les Petites Timbales de Nouilles a la Puree do Gelinottes. 



Rots : 
Les Combattants. Les Chapons. L'Oie. 



Releve's : 
Le Pudding de Riz. Le Baba au Rlium. Les Beignets an Parmesan. 



Planes : 
La Cascade ornee de sucre file. La Chaumiere rustique. 



Entremets : 
La Dame d'Esturgeon au beurre de Montpellier. 
Le Buisson d'Ecrivisses. 
Les Petits Pois h la Francaise. 
Les Haricots Verts a la Maitre d'hotel. 
Le Gelee au Vin de Champagne. 
La CrC-me au Caramel. 
Les Petits Gateaux de Creme k l'Anglaise. 
La Tourte de Peches. 
L' Aspic de Volaille a la Belle-vue. 
Les Fonds d'Artichauts h la Proven9ale. 
Les Concombres farcis a l'Essence. 
Les Choux-fleurs, a la sauce. 
Le Bavaroix de Fraises. 
La Gelee de Peches. 
Les Tartelettes de Cerises. 
Le Gateau de Pethiviers. 



Side Board : 

Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. Hashed Venison. 

Riz au Consomme\ 

Plum and Yorkshire Puddings. 

35 






562 BILLS OF FARE. 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 20th Augu.it. 

(TJndtr the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages : 
A la Tortue. A la Faubonne. A la Xavier. 



Poissons : 
Le Saumon cisele sauce Homard. Les Eglefins sauce aux ceufs. 

Les Merlans frits sauce Hollandaise. 



Relevcs : 

Lc Jambon de Westpbalia aux Hari- La Piece de Bceuf a la Mazarine, 
cots Verts. LOie braisee garni de racines. 

Les Poulardes a la Bellc-vue sauce Su- 
preme. 

Entries : 
Les Cotelottes de Moutori a la puree do Pommes de Terre. 
Les Ballottines de Volailles a la Jardiniere. 
Les Fricandeaux glaces a la puree de Pois. 
Les Ailerons de Poulets panes a la Villeroy. 
Les Petifces Croustades a la puree de Gelinottes. 
Les Boudins a la Reine. 



R6ts: 
Wheatears. Gelinottes. Poulets. 



Relevcs: 
Les Beignets Souffles au citron. Le Pudding roule a l'AUeinande. 

Le Pudding Bavaroix. 



Flancs : 
Les Canards a la Chantilly. La Gondole Venitienne. 



Entremets : 

Les Anguilles en bastion. L'Aspic de Galantine. 

Les Ecrivesses au Vin. Les Truffes a la serviette. 

Les Articbauts a la Provencale. Lea Petits Pois a l'Anglaise. 

La Macedoine de Legumes. Les Haricots Verts Ma Maitred'hotel. 

La Gelee de Pecbes. Le Bavaroix de Framboises. 

La Charlotte Russe. La Chartreuse de Poires. 

Les Tartelettes de Cerises a la Creme. Les Petits Puitj d'Amour. 

Les Genoises au Confitures. Les Daujdiines aux Pistaches. 



Side Board. 
Roast Beef. Haunch of Venison. Roast Mutton. 

Riz au Consomme. Marrow on toast. 









BILLS OF FARE. i)63 



Her Majesty's Dinner. August. 

( Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages : 

De Quenelles au Consomme. A la puree de Gelinottes. 

A la Garbure aux Laitues. 



Poissons: 

Les Brochets farcis au four. Les Anguilles a la Tartare. 

Le Turbot sauce Homard. 



Releve's : 
Les Carres de Venaison en Cheveaux- Le Pate de Pigeons a l'Anglaise. 
de-frize. 

Entries : 
Les Petits Poulets aux choufleurs. 
Les Poitrine d'Agneau a la Daupliine. 
Les Blanquettes de Volaille aux Concombres. 
Les Boudins de Volaille a la Sefton. 
Les Chartreuses de Tendons de Veau. 
Les Petits Pates aux liuitres. 



Rots : 

Les Levrauts. Le Dindonneaux. 

Wheatears. 



Releve's : 
Les Gauffres a la Flamande. Le Pudding Souffle au Citron. 



Entremets : 
La Dame Saumon a la remoulade. 
La Salade a la Russe. 
Le Macaroni a l'ltalienne. 
Les G3ufs a l'Aurore. 
Les Artichauts a la Lyonnaise. 
Les Haricots "Verts a la poulette. 
La Gelee de Citron garnie de Prunos vertes. 
Le Bavaroix a la Canelle. 
Les Feuillantines aux Pommes. 
Le Flan de Fruit. 
Les Petits Biscuits aux Amandes. 
Les Peches au Riz a la Conde. 



Side Board: 
Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. 

Hashed Venison. 
Riz au Consomme. Petits Pots de Volaille. 

Greengage tart. 



564 BILLS OF FARE. 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 11th September. 

(Under the control of C. Francateili.) 

Potages : 
A la Purge de Volaille. A la Xavier. 



Poissons : 
Les Tranches de Cabillaudauxhuitres. Les Eperlans frits sauce Holland- 

aise. 

Relevts : 
Les noix de Veau a la Jardiniere. Le Janibon glace aux Epinards. 



Entries : 
Le Haricot de Venaison. 
Les Perdreaux braises a la soubise. 
Les Boudins de Volaille a la Sefton. 
Les Petits Filets de Boeuf dans leur glace. 
Les Tendons de Veau en kari. 
La Poularde poellee sauce Supreme. 
Les Aiguillettes de Poulets a la chicoree. 
Les Filets de Soles en Epigramme. 



R6ts : 
Les Gtelinottes. Le Lievre. Les Dindonneaux. 



Rtlevis : 
s Beignets de Creme frite. La Charlotte de Pommes. 



Entremets: 
La Gelee d'Ananas. 
Le Pain de Peches a la Chantilly. 
Les Gateaux a la Religieuse. 
Les Madelines au Cedrat. 
Les Pommes de Terre a la creme. 
Les Choux-fleurs a la sauce. 
Les (Eufs a l'Aurore. 
Les Huitres frites. 
Les Coupes garnies de Partisserie. 






Side-Board: 

Roast Beef. Roast Venison. Roast Mutton. 

Marrow on Toast. 

Riz au Consomme. 






( 






BILLS OF FARE. 565 






Her Majesty's Dinner. 18th September. 

(Under the control of C. Francatelli.') 

Potages : 
A la Cressy aux Croutons. A la Royale. 



Poissons : 
Les Eglefins sauce aux (Eufs. Les Harengs sauce moutarde. 



Releve's : 
Le Filet de Bceuf braise aux laitues. Les Petits Poulets en Galantine. 



Entries : 
Les Cdtelettes do Pore frais sauce Tomates. 
Les Boudins de Merlans a'la Bechamel. 
Les Croquettes de Volaille a l'Allemande. 
Les Palais de Bceuf au gratin. 
La Fricassee de Poulets a la Villeroy. 
Le Saute de Perdreaux a la Bourguignotte. 
Les Cervelles de Veau au beurre noir. 
Les Croustades de Mouton aux fines herbes. 



Rots. 
Les Perdreaux. Les Poulardes. 



Releve's : 
Les Croquettes de Riz sauce au fruit. Le Souffle au Citron. 



Entremets : 
Les Concombres ^ l'Espagnole. 
Les Epinards au jus. 
Les (Eufs brouilles aux Truffes. 
La Salade h, la Russe. 
Le Pudding a la D'Orleans. 
La Gelee de Fruits. 
Le Flan de Poires. 
Les Meringues a la Chantilly. 
Les Cassolettes garnies de Patisserie. 



Side Board: 

Roast Beef. Roast Venison. 

Roast Mutton. 

Riz aa Consomm6. 



566 BILLS OF FARE. 



V 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 19th September. 

( Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages : 
A la Puree de Perdreaux. Au Vermicelli clair. 



Poissons : 
Les Filets de Brochets panes a l'Allemande. Le Turbot sauce Homard. 



Releve's . 
Les Filets de Mouton, piques a la Jardiniere. La Tete de Veau en Tortue. 



Entries : 
Les Cotelettes d'agneau a la chicoree. 
Les Poulets a l'Allemande. 
La Supreme de Volaille aux Concombres. 
Le Filet de Boeuf au Madere. 
Les Gelinottes braisees aux Cboux. 
Les Boudins de Volaille a la Keine. 
Le Vol-au-vent a la Ncsle. 
Les Filets de Perdreaux a la Marena. 



R6ts : 
Le Cbapon. Les Gelinottes. 



Releve's 
Le Pudding de Farine de Riz. Les Pomines Meringuees. 



Flancs: 
Les Pieces montees. 



Entremets : 
La Salade de Homards. 
Les Truffes a la Serviette. 
Les Haricots Verts a la poulette. 
Les Choux-neurs au Parmesan. 
La Gelee de Marasquin. 

La Timballe de Raisins garnie d'un Bavaroix. 
Le Gateau de CrGme a la moelle. 
La Charlotte de Peches a l'Abricot. 



Side Board : 
Roast Beef. Boiled Round of Beef. Roast Mutton. 

Hashed Venison. Riz au Consomme. 






/ 






BILLS OF FARE. 567 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 2lst September. 

{Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potages: 
A la Puree de Volaille. A la Brunoise. 



Poissons : 
Le Saumon sauce au persil. 
Les Harengs, sauce Moutarde. 
Le St. Pierre, sauce Homard. 
Les Eperlans frits. 



Releve's : 
Le Rond de Veau, a l'Anglaise. Le Jambon glace aux haricots verts. 



2 Flancs: 
Les Petits Poulets, au gros sel. Les Filets do Mouton, a la Jardiniere. 



Entries : 
Les Poitrines d'Agneau, a la puree de pommes do terre. 
Les Perdreaux, a la Perigueux. 
Les Kromeskys de Volaille, a la Russe. 
L'Emince de Boeuf, a la Polonaise. 
I es Ris de Veau, a la Financiere. 
Les Petites Quenelles de Volaille. 
Les Amourettes frites, sauce Tomates. 
Les Petits Vol-au-Vent, aux huitres. 



Rots : 
Les Poulardes. Les Perdreaux. 



Rel eve's ; 
Les Omelettes soufflees, a la fleur d'Orange. Le Pudding Bavaroix. 



Entremets: 
Les Epinards au jus. 
Les Pommes de Terre frites. 
La (relee de Pieds de Veau au Vin. 
Les Fenchonettes, a l'Abricot. 
La Charlotte, a la Parisienne. 
Le Gateau de Compiegne. 
Les Homards au gratin. 
La Salade de Volaille. 
La CrC-me au Caramel. 
Lea Nougats de Pommes au Citron. 
La Oelee de Fruits. 
La Grosse Meringue, a la Chantilly. 
Les Corbeilles garnies de Noix. 



Side Board: 
Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. 

Haunch of Venison. 
Riz au Consomm6. Hashed Venison. 



i 

568 BILLS OF FAKE. 




Her Majesty's Dinner. 24tfi. October. 

( Under the control of C. Francatelli. ) 

Potages : 
A la Puree de Pois aux Croutons. Au Macaroni clair. 



Poissons : X^. 
Le Turbot a la sauce Homard. Les Eperlans frits sauce Hollandaise. 



Releve's: 
Le Filet do Boeuf, piqu6 sauce Poivrade. Les Faisans, a la Financiere. 



Entries : 
Les Ris de Veau piques, a la sauce Toinates. , Les Epaules de Lievres, en civet. 
La Fricassee de Poulets, a la Villeroy. Les Filets de Soles, aux Huitres. 

Les Carbonnades de Mouton, a la Macedoine. Les petits Poulets, aux Riz. 



Rdts: 
Les Mauviettes. Les Dindonneaux. 



Releve's: 
Le Souffle, a la fecule. Les Gauffres, a la Flamande. 



Entremets : 
Les Articliauts, a la Barigoule. Le Blanc-manger. 

Les Salsifis, a l'Espagnole. Les Gateaux de Pomraes. 

La Gelee d'Ananas garnie. Les Darioles, a la Fleur d'Orange. 



Side Board: 
Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. 

Hashed Venison. 
Riz au Consomme. 



BILLS OF FARE. 569 



Her Majesty's Dinner. 25th October. 

( Under the control of C. Francatelli.) 

Potayes : 
A la Bisque d'Ecrivisses. Ail Vermicelli clair. 



Poissons : 
Les Egleflns, a la sauce aux (Eufs. Les Soles frites, sauce aux Anchois. 



Releve's : 
Le Jambon aux Epinards. Le Filet de Veau, a l'Anglaise. 



Enire'es: 
Le Salmi de Coqs de Bruyere. 
Les Filets de Mouton piques sauce Tomates. 
Le Supreme de Volaille, a l'Ecarlate. 
Les Petites Croustades, a la puree de Faisans. 
Les Tauclies farcies au Vin de Sauterne. 
Les Ris de Veau, a la Dauphine. 



Rots : 
Les Becassines. Les Poulets. 



Releve's : 
Le Pudding de Semoule, a l'Abricot. Les Canelons frits, garnis de Fram- 

boises. 

Entremets . 
Les Pommes de Terre, a la Hollandaise. 
Les (Eufs brouilles aux Truifes. 
La Gelee des Fruits. 
Lhs Gateaux, a l'Anglaise. 
Les Pains de la Mecque. 
Le Bavaroix, a la Vanille. 



Side Board: 
Roast Beef. Haunch of Venison. 

Riz au Consomme. 
Plum and Yorkshire Puddings. 



1 

570 BILLS OF FARE. 



Her Majesty's Dinner. October 26th. 

C Under the control of C. Francatelli. ) 

Potages : 
De Queues de Bceuf aux racines. A la bonne femme. 



Poissons : 
Le Turbot, a la sauce Homard. Les Filets de Brocbets a la Dauphine. 



Releve's : 
La Piece de Boeuf braisee, a la Flamande. La Dinde rotie aux saucisses. 



Entries : 
Les Escalopes de Mouton aux fines-herbes. 
La Blanquette de Volaille, al'Ecarlate. 
Les Crepinettes de Faisans, a l'Essence. 
Le Fricandeau glace, a la chicor^e. 
Les petits vols'au'vent, a la Bechamel. 
Les ailerons de poulardes, a la Macedoine. 



Rots : 
Les Faisans. • Les Gelinottes. 



Releve's : 
L6s tartelettes souffl^es, a la d'Artois. Le Baba au raisin. 



Entremfts : 
Les cboux de Bruxelles au beurre. 
Les salsifis en Magnonnaise. 
La gelee de citron. 
Le bavaroix de Marasquin. 
Le pudding de cabinet. 
Le nougats de pommes. 



Side Board: 
Roast Beef. Roast Mutton. 

Hasbed Venison. 
Riz au Consomme 












) 






INDEX. 



t 



\* The number refers to the Article, unless otherwise expressed. 



Albert sauce, 46. 
Allemande sauce, 7. 
Almond cakes, 1297. 
„ gauffres, 1284. 
„ paste, 1258. 
„ ,, another method, 1259. 

American yams, a la Francaise, 1187. 
Anchovies, essence of, 176. 
Anchovy sandwiches, 1213. 

,, sauce, 72. 
Apple, Charlotte, 1447. 

,, ,, another way, 1448. 

,, ,, a, la Marialva, 1448. 

„ fritters, 1332. 
„ • pudding, 1402. 
„ tart with quince, 1329. 
„ tartlets, 1322. 
,, ,, another method, 1323. 

Apples and rice, ornamented, 1351 
,, ,, plain, 1352. 

„ a la Portuguaise, 1354. 
,, " another method, 1355. 

,, in the form of a porcupine, 1354. 
„ Parisian turnover of, 1305. 
Apricot Bavarian cream, 1433. 
,, Charlotte, 1452. 
,, cheese, a la Chantilly, 1443. 
,, nougats, 1310. 
„ souffle, 1378. 
Apricots, German tourte of, 1304. 
Aromatic sauce, 34. 

,, spices for seasoning, 1250. 
Artichoke-bottoms, garnish of, 153. 
Artichokes, puree of, 117. 

,, with butter sauce, 1165. 

,, a la Barigoule, 1166. 

„ a 1'Italienne, 168. 

„ Jerusalem, with white sauce, 

1183. 
„ ,, a 1'Italienne, 1184. 

„ a la Lyonnaise, 1167. 

„ ,, purSe of, 126. 

Asparagus-heads, garnish of, 147. 
„ peas, a la creme, 1170. 

„ ,, garnish of, 148. 

,, puree of, 118. 

,, with white sauce, 1169. 

Aspic of fowl, a la Reine, 1229. 
Aspic-jelly, essence of, 172. 






Aspic-jelly, or savory jelly, 1218. 
Atelet sauce, 36. 
Aurora sauce, 41. 

Baba, or Polish-cake, 1270. 
Badminton sandwich, 1241a. 
Bechamel sauce, 5. 

,, cream sauce, 6. 
Beef, braized roll of, a 1' Allemande, 542. 
,, a la Claremont, 

545. 
,, a la Dauphinoise, 

549. 
,, a la Flamande, 539. 

„ a la Milanaise, 547. 

„ a la D'Orle"ans, 546. 

,, a la Polonaise, 541. 

„ a la Richelieu, 548. 

„ a la Royale, 543. 

,, a la Windsor, 544. 

,, garnished, 550. 

braized rump of, 551. 
,, a l'Allemande, 556. 
,, a la Printaniere, 540. 
boiled brisket of, a l'Anglaise, 564. 
,, al'Ecarlate, 565. 

stewed brisket of, a la Flamande 

566. 
edgebone of, a l'Anglaise, 567. 
fillet of, a la Jardiniere, 554. 
,, a la Mace"doine, 553. 

,, a la Milanaise, 558. 

,, a la Napolitaine, 552. 

„ dressed roebuck fashion, 

555. 
,, with Madeira sauce; 557. 

braized fillet of, a la Nivernaise, 
560. 
,, a, la Royale, 561. 

fillets of, dressed plain, 563. 
fillets or scollops of, in their own 
glaze, 808. 
,, with oysters 

or muscles, 
808. 
,, with olives, 

truffles, or 
gherkins, 
808. 

(Ml) 



572 






INDEX. 



Beef, fillets or scollops of, with purees of 
vegetables, 
808. 
„ ,, with vegeta- 

ble garnish- 
es, 808. 
,, roast fillet of, a, l'Anglaise, 559. 
„ ,, alaParasienne, 562. 

,. ,, a la Provencale, 563. 

„ stewed ribs of, a la Chasseur, 570. 
„ braized ribs of, a la Pigmontaise, 

571. 
,, small ribs of, a la Mode, 572. 
„ ,, alaBourgeoise, 573. 

„ ribs of, with Madeira sauce, 574. 
„ ,, a la Baden, 575. 
, , boiled round of, a l'Anglaise, 568. 
„ ,, ala Chasseur, 569. 

„ entries of, 244. 
„ minced, with poached eggs, 809. 
„ ,, a la Portuguaise, 810. 
„ hashed, plain, 811. 
,, ,, and broiled bones, 812. 

„ slices of braized, a la Claremont, 

813. 
„ „ with sharp sauce 

813. 
„ „ with macaroni, 

813. 
„ , with purees of ve- 

getables, 813. 
Beefsteak, a la Franeaise, 806. 
,, plain, 805. 

,, with anchovy butter, 807. 

,, with Indian pickles, &c, 807. 

Beef-tea, 226. 
Beurre-noir, or black-butter sharp sauce 

93. 
Bigarrade sauce, 33. 
Biscuits, glacis, in small cases, 1347. 
,, " another way, 1460a. 

„ Albert, 1298o. 
„ apricot, 1298i. 
,, champagne, 1298/. 
„ Italian, 1298a. 
„ orange, 1298^. 
,, peach, 1298A. 
„ Russian, 1298w. 
„ Sicilian, 1298n». 
„ Venetian, 12986. 
;, Victoria, 1298p. 
Black-puddings, a la Franeaise, 955. 

„ a l'Anglaise, 956. 

Black currant-jelly sauce for venison, 

66. 
Black-game, a la Financiere, 761. 
,, a l'ltalienne, 748/ 

,, a la Montngnarde, 747. 

„ . a la Norwe^ienne, 751. 
„ a la Paysanne, 750. 

„ a la FeVigueux, 761. 

„ a la Soubise, 761. 

„ a la Sue"doise, 749. 

„ with a pur^e of celery, 751. 



Blanc, or white braize, for calves'-heads, 

236. 
Blanquette of lambs' sweetbreads, 236. 
„ of rabbits, a l'Ecarlate, 10G1 

„ of sturgeon, 1118. 

, , of veal with mushrooms, 895. 

Blond de veau, or veal gravy, 222. 
Boar's-head sauce, 103. 

„ another method, 104. 

,, with aspic-jelly, 1236. 

Boiled marinade, 234. 
Bordelaise sauce, 57. 
Border of potato paste, garnished with 
scollops of 
larks, 1782. 
„ „ with lamb's-feet 

a la Pascal- 
ine, 783. 
,, „ with scollops of 

ox-palates, a 1' 
Indienne,784. 
„ „ with scollops of 

sheep's-ton- 
gues, 785. 
., „ with calf's-brains 

a la Ravigotte, 
786. 
Borders of potato-paste, for entries, 

&c. 1782. 
Borsch, or Polish soup, 380. 
Bouchers of fowl, a la Pompadour, 

1010. 
Boudins of partridges, alaD'Orsay, 1092. 
„ ,, a la Priutaniere, 

1093. 
„ of fowls, a, la D'Artois, 1007. 
,, ,, a. la Perigueux, 1005. 

„ „ a la Reine, 2009. 

,, „ a la Richelieu, 1094. 

„ „ a la Sefton, 1006. 

a la Soubise, 1008. 
Bouillabaisse, or Provencale soup, 379. 
Bourguignotte sauce, 28. 
Braize for general purposes, 230. 
Brawn sauce, 105. 
Bread panada for quenelles, 240. 
„ sauce, 80. 
„ fried, sauce, 81. 
Bredby sandwich, 12416. 
Bretonne sauce, 27. 
Brill, method of dressing, 410. 
Brioche-paste, 1269. 
Brocoli, garnish of, 155. 
Broth, crayfish, for purifying the blood, 
227. 
,, Mucilaginous, for persons in de- 
licate health, 229. 
,, mutton, plain, 225. 
,, pectoral chicken, 224. 
,, plain chicken, 223. 
,, snail, for inveterate coughs, 228. 
Broths, medicinal, for invalids, 223. 
Brown-bread biscuits, 1298a*. 
,, Italian sauce, 12. 



INDEX. 



/ 



5T3 



Brown gravy, for roast veal, 82. 
Brussels-sprouts, garnish of, 156. 
Brussels-sprouts, for a second-course 
dish, 1192. 
" biscottes, or rusks, 

1280. 
Bubble-and-squeak, 814. 
Butter, Anchovy, 179. 

„ Crayfish, 184. 

,, Epicurean, for the table, 186. 

,, Green-ravigotte, 185. 

„ Lobster, 182. 

,, Montpellier, 183. 

„ Provencale, 181. 

„ Ravigotte, 180. 

,, sauce, 70. 

,, for asparagus, &c, 71. 

Cabbages, garnish of braized, 162. 

,, ,, stewed red, 163. 

Cabinet pudding, 1394. 
Cake, Compiegne, 1271. 
„ ginger, 1298e. 
,, Parisian, 1273. 
,, plain seed, 1279. 
„ plum, or wedding, 1277. 
,, pound, 1281. 
,, Savarin, 1274a. 
,, Savoy, 1275. 
„ Victoria, 1274. 
Calf's-brains, with matelotte sauce, 921. 
,, with nutbrown butter, 922. 

„ fried, a la Provencale, 923. 

„ scolloped, 924. 

Calf's-ears, a, la Tortue, 915. 

,, fried, with Tomata sauce,&c, 
916. 
Calf s-feet, a, la Pascaline, 917. 

,, fried, with Italian sauce, 918. 
Calf's-fyead, a, l'Anglaise, 624. 
,, a la Beauvaux, 627 

„ a, la Financiere, 626. 

„ a la Marigny, 629. 

„ a, la Tortue, 628. 

„ plain, with piquante sauce, 

625. 
Calf s-liver, braized, with vegetables, 91 9. 
„ fried, with fine-herbs sauce, 

920. 
Calf s-udder, prep, of, for forcemeats, 

242. 
Cambridge sauce, 94. 
Caper sauce, for fish, 90. 

,, for boiled mutton, 91. 

Capilotade of chickens, a l'ltalienne, 986. 
Capon, stuffed with truffles, a la Peri- 
gord, 666. 
,, a l'Anglaise, 669. 
,, a la Chipolata, 668. 
,, a l'Estragon, 675. 
,, a la Godard, 667. 
„ a l'lvoire, 673. 
„ a la Jardiniere, 670. 
„ with macaroni, 678. 



Capon, a la Macgdoine, 671. 
,, a la Milanaise, 677. 
„ with nouilles, 679. 
„ a la Printaniere, 672. 
„ with rice, 676. 
,, an gros sel, 674. 
Cardinal sauce, 48. 
Carp, a l'Allemande, 517. 
,, il la Bourguignotte, 514. 
„ a, la Chambord, 512. 
Carp, a, la Perigueux, 515. 
„ a, la Provencale, 516, 
„ a la Royale, 513. 
„ a, la Venitienne, 518. 
,, small, fried, 520. 
,, stewed, a l'Anglaise, 519. 
Carrots, young, a, l'Allemande, 1178. 
„ a la Suedoise, for garnishing 

removes, 749. 
,, garnish of, in olives, &c, 135. 
„ young, garnish of, 134. 
,, ,, a la Flamande, 

142. 
„ purge of, for cutlets, &c, 108. 
„ and turnips, garnish of, a, la 
Nivernaise, 137. 
Casserole, or border of rice, 777. 
Casserole of rice, a la Polonaise, 778. 
,, a la Reine, 779. 

,, garnished, with a pu- 

rge of game, 780. 
„ garnished with wings 

of fowls, 781. 
„ with fricassee of 

chickens, 230. 
„ with blanquette of 

sweetbreads, 230. 
„ with scollops of game, 

230. 
Cauliflowers, purge of, for cutlets, &c, 
111. 
,, garnish of, for entries, 

&c, 155. 
„ with white sauce, 1158. 

,, with Parmesan, au gratin, 

1159 
Celery, purge of, garnishing entries, 
110. 
„ garnish of, a, la creme, 140. 
„ ,, a l'Espagnole, 141. 

,, braized, a l'Espagnole, 1151. 
„ " a la Villeroi, 1162. 

Char, a la Beaufort, 496. 
„ a la Ggnoise, 493. 
„ a la Hollandaise, 495. 
,, in Matelotte, 494. 
Charlotte of apples, 1447. 
,, another way, 1448. 
„ a, la Parisienne, 1449. 
„ a l'Allemande, 1450. 
„ of peaches, a la Fran^aise, 
1451. 
Chartreuse, a la Belle-vne, 791. 
,, a la Cardinal, 792. 



574 






INDEX. 



Chartreuse, a la Parisienne, 790. 

„ of vegetables, garnished 

with part- 
ridges,787. 
„ „ garnished 

with quails 
788. 
„ „ with tendous 

of veal, 789. 
„ „ with scollops 

of pheas- 
ant, 789. 
„ „ with blan- 

quette of 
fowl, 789. 
„ „ with lambs' 

sweet- 
breads, 789 
Cherry-bread, 1386. 
Cherry-sauce, 62. 

,, a la Victoria, 64. 

Cherry tartlets, 1324. 
Cheese-cakes, 1300. 
Cheese, apricot, a la Chantilly, 1443. 

,, greengage, &c, 1443. 
Chestnut pudding, 1395. 
Chestnuts, puree of, forcutlets, &c, 115. 
,, garnish of, for a roast tur- 
key, 157. 
Chevreuil sauce, for roebuck, 69. 
Chickens, a PAfricaine, 692. 
,, a l'Alg^rienne, 981. 
,, a l'Allemande, 690. 
„ a la Cardinal, 689. 
„ a la Chivry, 687. 
,, a la Dauphine, 684. 
„ a la Diable, 979. 
,, a l'Espagnole, 694. 
,, a la Florentine, 688, 982. 
„ a 1 Indienne, 691. 
„ a l'ltalienne, 681. 
„ a la Lyonnaise, 978. 
,, a la Milanaise, 686. 
„ a la Montmorency, 685. 
„ a la Proveneale, 977. 
,, a la Reine, 680. 
„ a la Tartare, 980. 
„ a la Turque, 693. 
„ a la Venitienne, 683. 
,, with Tomata sauce, 682. 
„ fricassee of, with mushrooms, 

&c, 968. 
„ ,, a, la St. Lambert, 

969. 
„ „ a la Dauphine, 970. 

,, „ a la Financicre, 

971. 
„ ,, a la Chevaliere, 

972. 
„ ,, a la Romaine, 973. 

„ (cut up in small joints), a la 

Marengo, 974. 
,, with oysters, &c, 976. 
„ with truffles, &c, 976. 



Chickens, fritot of, 985. 

,, a la Toscane, 987. 
„ marinade of, fried in batter, 
988. 
salad. 1225. 
,, a la Belle-vue, (cold entree), 
1237. 
Civet of hare, 1070. 
,, roebuck, 967. 
,, venison, 960. 
Claremont sauce, 58. 
Clarification of calf's-feet jelly, 1408. 
Cockles, scolloped, 538. 
Cod-fish, fillets of, a l'lndienne, 446. 
,, slices of, a la Seville, 445. 
„ scollops of, a la Bechamel, 450. 
,, and oyster sauce, 441. 
„ stuffed and baked, 442. 
,, a la creme. au gratin, 443. 
„ crimped slices of, and oyster 

sauce, 444. 
,, ,, a la Hollandaise, 447. 

„ „ a la Colbert, 448. 

„ „ a la Maitre d'Hotel, 

451. 
„ „ in matelotte Nor- 

ma nde, 449. 
Cod's-head, baked, 452. 
Cod's-sounds, and egg sauce, 461. 
,, a la Gasconne, 463. 

„ a la R.avigotte, 462. 

,, a la Royale, 464. 

Cold marinade for pickling roebuck, 

&c, 235. 
Cold Poivrade sauce, 102. 
Common 6tock, for general gurposes, 1. 
„ gravy, for roasts, &c, 

221. 
Consomme" for preparing soups in gene- 
ral, 213. 
,, of fowls, for Boups, &c, 214. 
„ of pheasants or partridges, 
(brownj, 215. 
„ (white), 218. 

„ of fowl (white) for working 
sauces, 217. 
of rabbits (brown), 216. 
CondSs, 1307. 
Coventry tartlets, 13286. 
Crayfish sauce, 54. 
Crayfish, scolloped, 538. 
Cream Apricot, 14:'. 1. 

,, Blanc-manger, 1430. 
,, Caramel, or burnt, 1436. 
,, Celestina strawberry, 1441. 
,, Chocolate, I486. 
„ Coffee, 1434. 
,, Curacao, 1431. 
,, Currant and raspberry transpa- 
rent, 1442. 
,, Italian, 1439. 
,, Maraschino Bavarian, 1431. 
,, Noyeau (pink or white), 1431. 
,-, Oiauge-fiower, 1437. 



INDEX. 



575 



Cream, Pistachio-kernels, 1438. 
,, Russian Charlotte, 1440. 
„ Strawberry, Bavarian, 1432. 
,, a la Chateaubriant, 14416. 
„ a la Romaine, 1441a. 
Cream sauce, for roast necks of veal, 83. 

„ for salt fish, 92. 

Croquante of oranges, 1358. 

,, of fresh walnuts, 1359. 

,, of ratafias, a la Chantilly, 

1360. 
Croquettes of fowl and mushrooms, 1020. 

of veal, 896. 
Croustade of bread, garnished with 
calves'-talls, a la Poulette, 
794. 
„ garnished with lambs'-brains 

795. 
„ with scollops of fat livers, a 

l'Epicurienne, 796. 
„ with quails, a la Bourguig- 

notte, 797. 
,, cases, for patties, 1265. 
Cucumbers, pure"eof, 124. 

,, scollops of, for garnishing, 

138. 
,, garnish of, farcis, 139. 

,, a la Poulette, 1181. 

,, a l'Espagnole, 1182. 

Cupid, or love's wells, 1315. 
Curry sauce (plain), 87. 

,, of chickens, a l'lndi&nne, 983. 
Cygnets, 202. 

,, a la Norwich, 202a. 

Dampfnudeln, or German dumplings, 

1390. 
Darioles, 1306. 

Darne of Salmon, with Montpelier but- 
ter, 1223. 
D'Artois* of apricot-jam, 1309. 
Duchess-loaves, 1292. 
Ducks, for removes, 703. 
,, a la Mace'doine, 703. 
,, braized, with turnips, 704. 
,, ,, with stewed peas, 705. 

,, ,, a la Provencale, 706. 

,, „ a la Jardiniere, 706. 

,, ,, a la Nivernaise, 706. 

,, ,, with olives, 706. 

„ ,, with sauerkraut, 706. 

,, ,, for entrees, 1035. 

Ducklings, a la Rouennaise, 1035. 
,, stewed with olives, 1036. 

,, with stewed peas, 1037. 

„ fillets of, a la Bigarrade,1088. 

„ . " Mac6doine,1039 

,, with truflles and mushrooms, 

1040. 
Dutch sauce, 42. 

,, plain. 79. 

D'Uxelles sauce, 16. 

Eels, spitchcocked, 501. 



Eels, plain broiled, 502. 

,, stewed, a l'Anglaise, 503. 
,, matelo-tte of, a la Bordelaise, 504. 
,, ,, a la Ge'noise, 506. 

„ A, a la Parisienne, 505. 

,, a la Dauphinose, 507. 
,, a, l'Indienne, 511. 
,, a la Poulette, 510. 
,, a la Tartare, 509. 
,, a la Venitienne, 508. 
Eggs, a la tripe, 1193 
,, au gratin, 1194. 
,, brouilles, with truflles, 1195. 
,, poached, with anchovy toast, 

1200. 
„ ,, with ham, 1201. 

„ a, l'Aurore, 1203. 
,, a la Dauphine, 1202. 
„ a la Suisse, 1205. 
,, with nutbrown butter, 1204. 
Egg sauce, 84. 

,, another method, 85. 
Endive, puree of, for fricandeaux, &c, 

114. 
Endive, a la creme, 1157. 
Entries offish, 1112. 
Entree, of boudins of lobster, a la Car- 
dinal, 1112. 
„ of quenelles of lobster, a la Vert- 

pre", 1113. 
„ of boudins of whitings, a la Su- 
preme, 1114: 
„ of quenelles of whitings, a la 

Princesse, 1115. 
,, of boudins of salmon, a l'ltal- 

ienne, 1116. 
„ of quenelles of salmon, a la Ra- 

vigotte, 1117. 
„ of blanquette of sturgeon, 1118, 
,, of scollops of sturgeon, with 

fine-herbs, 1119. 
,, of cutlets of sturgeon, a la Baur- 

guinotte, 1120. 
,, of dolphins of whitings, a la Pa- 
risienne, 1133. 
„ of fillets of salmon, a l'Aurore, 

1121. 
,, „ a la Maintenon, 

1123. 
,, „ a, la Parisienne, 

1122. 
„ „ of turbot, 1124. 

„ ,, of gurnet, 1125. 

„ „ of soles, a la Diep- 

poise, 1126. 
„ ,, a la Horly, 1130 

,, ,, a la Maitre d'ho- 

tel, 1127. 
,, „ a la Provencale, 

1129. 
,, of fillets of salmon, a la Royale, 

1131. 
„ ,, t\ la Venitienne 

1128. 



5T6 



INDEX. 



Entree, of paupiettes of soles, a la Car- 
dinal, 1132. 
,, of fillets of whitings, 343. 
„ „ of trout, & la Chcval- 

iere, 1134. 
„ „ of mackerel, 1137. 

„ „ of perch, 343. 

Epigrammc of fillets of trout, 1135. 
Espagnole, or brown sauce, 3. 
Essence of anchovies, for broiled steaks. 
176. 
„ aspic-jelly, 172. 
„ fine-herbs, for broiled meats, 

&c, 170. 
„ game, for broiled partridges, 

&c, 174. 
„ garlic, for broiled fowls, &c, 

175. 
„ mushrooms, 169. 
„ onions, for broiled pork, 179. 
,, orange-zest, for wild fowl, 

171. 
„ sage and onions, for geese, 

178. 
„ shalots, 167. 
truffies, 168. 
,, woodcocks, 173. 
Extract of hare or rabbit, 220. 
„ larks or quails, 219. 

Fanchonnettes, 1299. 

Farce, for preserving game in, 249. 

,, of fat-livers, for gratins, 250. 
Fennel sauce, 75. 
Filbert tartlets, 1328a. 
Fillets of fowls, for entries, 989. 
„ a l'Ecarlate, 989. 

„ Supreme of, a la Tou- 

louse, 990. 
», „ „ with truffles, 

991. 
„ „ a la Parisi- 

enne, 992. 
„ with cucumbers, & la 

Belle -vue, 993. ' 
,, a la Financiere, 999. 

,, a l'lndienne, 995. 

„ a la Mar^chale, 996 

„ a la Pengord, 994. 

„ a la Royale, 998. 

„ a la D'Uxelles, 1000. 

,, a la Valen9ay, 997. 

Finger, or Naples biscuits, 1276. 
Financiere sauce, 8. 
Fine-herbs sauce, 14. 
Flan of peaches, 1356. 
Flemish gauffres, 1282. 

., sauce, 89. 
Florentines, 1314. 
Flounders, fillets of, 1136. 
Force-meat of liver and ham, 248. 
French-beans, pur£e of cutlets, &c, 125. 
,, garnish of, 162. 

„ a la Maitre d'Hotel, 1171. 



French-beans, with fine-herbs, 1172. 

French gauffres, 1283. 

Fricassee of chickens, with aspic-jelly, 

1219. 
Fritter, apple, 1332. 

,, pine-apple, 1333. 

,, orange, 1334. 

,, peach, &c, 1335. 

„ Spanish-puffs, 1336. 

,, custards, 1337. 

,, Princess, 1337a. 

„ Portuguese, 13376. 

„ Diavolini, 1337f. 

,, German, 1337d. 
Fruit tarts in general, 1331. 
Frying-batter, for fillets of fish, &c, 232. 
„ for fruit-fritters, 233. 

Galantine, of poulard, with aspic-jelly, 

1235. 
Galantines of legs of fowls, a la Jardin- 
iere, 1012. 
„ „ a, la Financ- 

iere, 1011. 
,, „ with endive, 

stewed 
peas. &c, 
1011. 
Garlic, garnish of cloves of, for entries 

of game, &c, 159. 
Gasconne, sauce, a la, 68. 
Genoese cakes, 1288. 

,, ,, with almonds, 1289. 

Ge"noise sauce, 30. 
German sweet sauce, 61. 
Gherkin sauce, 19. 
Glaces au chocolat, 12984. 
,, another way, 1298A. 
Godiveaux, in general, 251. 
Goose, a l'Allemande, 691. 
,, a l'Anglaise, 695. 
„ a la Dauphinoise, 699. 
„ a l'Estouffade, 696. 
,, a la Flamande, 697. 
„ a la Normande, 700. 
Gooseberry sauce, 76. 
Grayling, 485. 
Green Ravigotte sauce, 21. 
Grey-Mullet, 485. 
Grouse for removes (see Black-game;, 

751. 
Gurnet, stuffed and baked, 474. 
,, a la Dauphine, 475. 
„ a la G^noise, 476. 



;; 



Haddocks, fillets of, a l'ltalienne, 460. 
,, a la Mardchale,459. 

,, a la Royale, 458. 

„ a la Royale, 453. 

,, stuffed and baked. 454. 

,, a la Belle-vue, 455. 

„ boiled with Dutch sauce, 456. 

,, broiled with egg sauce, 457. 

Ham, braized, with spinach, &c, 646. 



INDEX. 



577 



Ham, Grenada and Bayonne, 650. 
„ Westphalia, a l'essence, 647. 
,, ,, baked, 648. 

„ „ roasted, a la St. James 

649. 
„ ,, a la Parisienne, 650. 

,, with aspic-jelly, 1 228. 
Hare, cutlets of, a l'Ancienne, 1067. 
,, cutlets of, a la Portuguaise, 1066. 
,, entries of, or side dishes, 1063. 
,, fillets of, a l'Allemande, 1065. 
,, ,, a, la Chasseur, 1064. 

,, ,, larded, with Poivrade 

sauce, 1063. 
„ scollops of, with fine-herbs, 1068. 
„ ,, a la P6rigueux, 1069. 

Haricot-beans, a la Maitre d'H6tel,1185. 
„ & la Bretonne, 1186. 

„ garnish of, for cutlets, 

&c, 160. 
„ red, garnish of, 161. 

Harry the VIII.'s shoe-strings, 1320. 

Iced cake, a la Stanley, 1338. 

,, Nesselrode pudding, 1348. 

,, pudding, a la Cerito, 1340. 

,, ,, a la Chesterfield, 1342. 

,, ,, a la Duchess of Kent, 
1346. 

,, „ a la Kinnaird, 1343. 

„ „ a la Prince Albert, 1344. 

„ ,, a la Prince of Wales, 1341. 

,, ,, a la Parisienne, 1345. 

,, „ a la Princess Alice, 1349 

,, rice-pudding, a la Cintra, 1339. 
Indian Curry-Sauce, 47. 
John Dory, 411. 

Kouglauff, or German cake, 1272. 
Krapfen, or German puffs, 1388. 
Kromeskys of fowl, a la Russe, 1019. 

Lamb, removes of, 614. 
,, baron of, a la Jardiniere, 616. 
,, ,, a la Maitre d'Hotel, 617. 

,, „ a la Montmorency, 614. 

,, ,, a la Printaniere, 615. 

,, braized carbonnades of, 933. 
„ breasts of, a la Mare"chale, with 

new potatoes, 929. 
„ cutlets, plain, with cucumbers, 

&c, 930. 
„ " bread-crumbed, with as- 

paragus-peas, 931. 
„ ,, a la Chevreuse, 932. 

>, ,, a la Princesse, 1238. 

„ epigramme of, with mushrooms, 

927. 
,, ,, a la Villeroi, with 

peas, 928. 
„ hind-quarters of, 617. 
,, neck of, a la Regence, 926. 
„ saddle of, a la Dauphine, 618. 
,, , a la Godard, 619. 

36 



Lamb, saddle of, a, la Financiere, 620. 
„ ,, a la Mac^doine, 622. 

„ ,, a la Milanaise, 623 

,, ,, a la Royale, 621. 

,, shoulder of, larded, a la Finan- 
ciere, 925. 
Lambs' sweetbreads, a la Toulouse, &c, 
934. 
„ scolloped, 936 

ears, a la Dauphine, 939. 
,, a la Financiere, 938. 
,, a la Ve"nitienne, 940. 
feet, fried in batter, 941. 
feet, a la Poulette, 942. 
„ a la D'Uxelles, 943. 
,, fried in batter, 944. 
head, a, la Pascaline, 937. 
blanquette of, 935. 
Lamperns, how to dress, 133. 
,, a la Beauchamp, 499. 

,, a la Foley, 498. 

Lampreys, matelotte of, 497. 
Larks, a la Minute, 1051. 
„ a la Chipolata, 1052. 
,, with fine-herbs, 1053. 
,, with truffles, a l'ltalienne, 1054. 
Lettuces, garnish of braized cabbage, 

164. 
Lobster salad, 1226. 
,, sauce, 55. 
,, „ plain, 73. 
,, scolloped, 538. 
Lyonnaise sauce, 24. 

Macaroni, a l'ltalienne^ 1206. 
,, ' with cream, 1207. 
,, timbale of, a, la Florentine, 

1209. 
,, au gratin, 1208. 
Macedoine of vegetables ("white), 143. 
,, ,, (brown), 144. 

Mackerel, boiled, with fennel sauce, 477. 
,, broiled, a la Maitre d'Hotel, 

478. 
,, „ with nutbrown but- 

ter, 479. 
„ „ & la Ge"noise, 480. 

„ ,, a l'ltalienne, 480. 

,, fillets of, a la Maitre d'Hotel, 

480. 
,, ,, & la Ravigotte, 480. 

Madeleines, 1290. 
Matelotte sauce, 31. 

,, Norman, sauce, 32. 
Mayonaise sauce, 97. 

„ „ green, 98. 

„ „ red, 99. 

,, ,, of savoury jelly, 100. 

,, of chickens, 1222. 

,, of fillets of soles, &c, 1221. 

Mazarine of whitings, a la Vtmitienne, 
803 
,, of fat livers, a la Toulouse, 
804, 



578 



INDEX. 



Mecca loaves, 2195. 
Meringues, 1298. 

„ a la Parisienne, 1361. 

,, with Pistachios, 1362. 

Millefeuilles cake, a la Chantilly, 1350. 
Mince-meat, 1444. 
„ lemon, 1445. 
,, royal, 1446. 
„ and grilled fowl, 308, 1013. 
,, ,, another way, 

1014. 
,, or scollops of fowl, au gratin, 

1018. 
,, or salpicon, for garnishing, 1021. 
Minced chicken, and poached eggs, 1015. 
„ with macaroni, 1016. 

„ with rice, 1017. 

Mirlitons, 1301. 
Mirepoix, for braizing larded roebuck, 

237. 
Mosaic tartlets, 417, 1326. 
Mullets, in cases, with fine-herbs, 481. 
„ au Ragout Cardinal, 484. 
„ a la Chesterfield, 485. 
,, a la Genoise, 483. 
„ a l'ltalienne, 482. 
Mushrooms, au gratin, 1161. 

,, garnish of, in Allemande 

sauce, 132. 
,, „ in Espagnole 

sauce, 133. 
,, puree of, 122. 

Muscle sauce, 52. 
Mustard sauce for herrings, 86. 
Mutton, removes of, 601. 

„ braized carbonnades of, a la Dau- 
phinoise, 
866. 
„ „ alaFlamande, 

867. 
„ n a 1* Richelieu, 

865. 
„ „ leg of, with roots, 602. 

ii ,, saddle of, a la Mace"doine, 

607. 
„ „ „ a la Bretonne, 

605. 
„ „ „ a la Jardiniere, 

f 606. 

„ || „ a la Provencale 

603. 
„ ,, „ a, la Soubise, 

604. 
„ boiled leg of, a l'Anglaise, 601. 
,, fillets of, larded, with Chevreuil 

sauce, 868. 
„ haricot of, a la Nivernaise, 869. 
„ necks of, a 1' Allemande, 612. 
,, ,, a l'Anglaise, 608. 

„ ,, a l'lrlandaise, 609. 

„ „ a la Jardiniere, 610. 

„ „ larded, with Poivrade 

sauce, 611. 
„ „ a la Soubise, 613. 



Mutton, necks of, with pui-ee of arti- 
chokes, 854. 
,, cutlets for entree, or side dish- 
es, 836. 
„ ,, braized, a la Chipolata, 

855. 
,, „ „ a la Lyonnaise, 

853, 854. 
,, „ „ a la Pompa- 

dour, 856. 
„ „ ,, alaProvencale, 

857. 
„ „ „ a la Russe, 858. 

,, ,, ,, a la Soubise, 

852. 
„ ,, breadcrumbed, and broil- 

ed, 844. 
„ ,, plain, 836. 

„ „ a la Bourguignotte, 839. 

„ „ a la Bretonne, 848. 

„ „ a l'lndienne, 850. 

„ „ a la Macedoine, 849. 

„ „ .a la Maintenon, 838 

„ „ a la Minute, 837. 

,, ,, a la Milanaise, 847. 

„ „ another method, 842. 

„ ,, a la Nivernaise, &c, 841. 

„ „ with cucumbers, 846. 

„ „ with puree of chestnuts, 

851. 
„ „ with pur6e of endives, 

&c, 840. 
„ „ with pur£e of mushrooms 

845. 
,, „ with stewed peas, &c, 

858. 
„ ,, with new potatoes, &c, 

843. 
„ scollops of, with fine-herbs, 859. 
„ „ a la Claremont, 860. 

„ „ a l'lndienne, 862. 

,, „ with mushrooms and 

trufiies, 864. 
„ „ with olive farcies, 

863. 
„ ,, with oysters, 861. 

Neapolitan cake, a la Chantilly, 1357. 

,, sauce, 63. 

Nougats, large, 1285. 

„ small, a la Chantilly, 1287. 

„ a la Parisienne, 1286. 
Nouilles, a la Palerme, 1210. 

„ timbale of, a la Vanille, 1211, 
Noukles, a la Viennoise, 1217. 
Nutritive soup, 22. 

Omelette, soufflee, 437. 
Omelet, with fine-herbs, 1196. 

,, with kidneys, 1198. 

„ with oysters, 1199. 

,, with Parmesan cheese, 1197a. 

,, with shalots, 1197. 
Onions, puree of, a la Soubise, 119. 



V 



INDEX. 



579 



Onions, button, for Matelotte, 149. 
„ White button, for garnishing, 

150. 
,, glazed for garnishing, 154. 
Ortolans in cases, with fine-herbs, 1109. 
„ in croustades, a la Provencale, 
1110. 
Ox-cheeks, for removes or flank dishes, 
630. 
„ braized, a, l'Allemande, 632. 

„ ,, a la Bretonne, 817. 

„ „ a la Flamande, 630. 

„ „ a la Jardiniere, 820. 

„ „ a la Polonaise, 631. 

„ „ a, la Pompadour, 634. 

„ ,, a laPortuguaise,633 

„ „ a la Provencale,818. 

„ ,, with pur6e of green 

peas, 815. 
„ „ with stewed cab- 

bage, 819. 
Ox-palates for entrees, 821. 
Ox-palates, attereaux of, a la D'Uxelles, 
825. 
„ canelons of, with Poivrade, 

sauce, 821. 
,, curry of, 824. 

„ paupiettes of, a, la Finan- 

ciere, 822. 
„ • a, la Tortue, 823. 
„ in cases, with fine-herbs, 826. 

Ox-piths, for Entries, 250. 
,, a la Ravigotte, 827; 
,, in cases with fine-herbs, 828. 
„ croustades of, 829. 

Ox-TONGUES FOR ENTREES, 251. 

Ox-tongue with spinach, 830. 

„ with Brussels-sprouts, 831. 

„ a l'Allemande, 834. 

,, a la Jardiniere, 833. 

„ a la Mac^doine, 832, 252. 

,, with sauerkraut, 835. 

Oyster sauce (white), 50. 
,, (brown), 51. 

Pancakes, plain, 1382. 

,, a la Celestine, 1383. 

„ sounds, 1384. 
Parisian loaves, 1327. 

„ nougats, 1286. 

„ sauce, 40. 
Parsley sauce, 77. 

Partridges for removes, or top and bot- 
tom dishes, 209. 

,, entries of, 327. 

„ „ a, la Cerito, 726. 

,, „ a. l'Ellsler, 729. 

„ ,, a la Ravigotte, 

727. 

„ „ a la Seville, 724. 

„ ,, a la Soubise, 728. 

,, red-legged, a la Plessy, 725. 

„ cutlets of, a l'Alg^rienne, 

1088 



Partridges, cutlets of, a, la Maitre d'Ho- 
tel, 1809. 
„ fillets of, a, la Lucullus.1082. 

,, „ a la Prince Albert, 

1083. 
„ „ al'Ancienne, 1084. 

,, „ a la Parisienne, 

1085. 
„ minced, with poached eggs, 

1091. 
„ pure"e of, with plovers' eggs, 

1090. 
„ salmis of, a, la Financiere, 

1078. 
„ „ a la Proven9ale, 

1079. 
„ „ a la Perigord, 

1080. 
„ „ with mushrooms, 

1081. 
„ scollops of, with truffles, 

1086. 
,, „ in cases, 1087. 

Pascaline, sauce, 15. 
Paste, French, for raised pies, 1252. 
„ Gum, 1260. 

„ hot water, for raised-pies, 1251. 
„ Nouilles, 1256. 
„ Office, 1257. 
„ short, for tarts, &c, 1255. 
,, short, for timbales, &c, 1253, 
Pastry-custard or cream, 1311. 
Pates-chauds, for entries, 219. 

,, of godiveau, a la Ciboulette, 

756. 
„ of larks boned, a l'essence, 

760. 
„ of leverets, with truffles, a la 

Perigueux, 754. 
,, of leverets, a la Financiere, 

755. 
„ of ox-palates, a l'ltalienne, 

758. 
,, of young partridges, a, la 

Chasseur, 757. 
„ of quails, a la Financiere, 759. 
„ of young rabbits, with fine- 
herbs, 752. 
„ „ a la Poivi'ade, 

753. 
„ of snipes, s\ la Bordelaise, 761. 
Patties, a, la Mazarin, 1267. 
Peas, puree of, for garnishing entries, 
&c, 106. 
„ green, garnish of, for cutlets, &c. 

145. 
„ stewed, for do., 146. 
,, green, plain, to boil, 1174. 
,, stewed, a la Francaise, 1176. 
„ stewed plain, 1175. 
Perch, a la Stanley, 526. . 
,, a la V^nitienne, &c, 528. 
,, a la Wastrefische, 527. 
„ fillets of, a la Cardinal, 529. 



580 



INDEX. 



Perch, fillets of, a l'ltalienne, 529. 
Perch, fillets of, a la Maitred'H6tel,529. 
,, ,, a la Ravigotte, 527. 

„ „ a la VertprtS, &c, 529. 

Petits-choux, with almonds, 1291. 
,, "with caramel, 1293. 

Perigueux sauce, 23. 
Pheasants for removes, or top and bot- 
tom dishes, 204. 
a, l'Allemande, 719. 
a l'Aspic, 722. 
a la Beauvaux, 710. 
a la Chipolata, 708. 
a la Dauphine, 714. 
a la Dauphinoise, 716 
a la Financiere, 711. 
a la Flamande, 718. 
a l'ltalienne, 709. 
a la Monglas, 723. 
a la Paysanne, 715. 
a la Perigueux, 707. 
a la Regence, 720. 
a la Soubise, 713. 
with pure"e of celery, 712. 
with stewed cabbage, &c, 717. 
with rice, a l'Espagnole, 721. 
Pie, capon, with truffles, 1243. 
„ eel, a l'Anglaise, 1247. 
, Devonshire squab, 1245. 
,, Leicestershire pork, 1246. 
„ Salmon, a la Russe, 1248. 
,, Yorkshire, 1244. 
„ raised, of veal and ham, 1242. 
Pies, meat, for removes, or entrees, 212. 
Pie, beefsteak and oyster, 735. 
. ,, chicken, a la Reine, 730. 
,, fieldfare or blackbird, 739. 
„ giblet, with fine-herbs, 734. 
,, grouse, a l'Ecossaise, 732. 
„ lark, ii la Melton Mowbray, 740. 
,, partridge, a la Chasseur, 733. 
„ pigeon, a l'Anglaise, 731. 
„ mutton, a l'Anglaise, 737. 
, veal and ham, 736. 
„ of woodcocks or snipes, a, l'lrland- 
aise, 738. 
Pig, sucking, roast, 641. 
„ „ roast, a la Chipolata, 643. 

,, ,, „ a la Napolitaine,645 

,, ,, ,, a la Perigord, 642. 

,, ,, ,, alaProvencale,644. 

Pigeons, si l'Allemande, 1034. 
„ a la Crapaudine, 1023. 
„ a la Ducbesse, 1024. 
„ a la Gauthier, 1022. 
„ a la Seville, 1025. 
„ fillets of, a la Borghese, 1032. 
,, ,, a la Bourguignotte, 

1033. 
„ „ a la Villeroi, 1031. 

,, au gratin, in a case, 1026. 
„ a la Maintenon, 1027. 
Pig's feet, a la Ste. Menehould, 952. 
„ a la Perigord, 953. 



Pig's-feet, a la Richelieu, 954. 
Pike or Jack, stuffed and baked, 521. 
,, a la Cardinal, 522. 

,, a la Chamboard, 522. 

,, a la Royale, 522. 

„ fried a l'Allemande, 522. 

,, ,, a la Hollandaise,523. 

,, crimped in slices, a la HoL- 

landaise, 524. 
„ fillets of, 625. 

Piquante sauce, 18. 
Pithiviers cakes, 1302 
Plaice, fillets of, 1136. 
Poele, white, for poultry, 231. 
Poires Croquettes, 1456. 
Poivrade sauce, 29. 
Polish cakes, 1319. 

,, sauce, 37. 
Polpettes of rabbits, a l'ltalienne, 1062. 
Poor-man's sauce, 17. 
Portuguese sauce, 69. 
Portugal onions, a l'Espagnole, 1164. 
Pork, boiled leg of, a l'Anglaise, 635. 
„ ,, a l'Allemande, 736. 

„ roast leg of, a l'Anglaise, 637. 
„ „ loin of, 638. 
„ ,, neck of, 639. 
„ ,, griskin of, 640. 
Pork cutlets, plain broiled, 948. 
„ a l'lndienne, 951. 

„ a la sauce Robert, 949. 

,, a l'Aurore, 950. 

Pork, entries of, 285. 

,, griskin of, a la Soubise, 945. 
„ „ a la Lyonnaise, 946. 

„ ,, a la Perigueux, 947. 

Potatoes, purge of, for cutlets, &c, 
116. 
,, a la creme, au gratin, 1190. 
„ a la Maitre d'Hotel, 1188. 
,, new, a la creme, 1189. 
Potted bloaters, 1234. 

,, fowl and tongue, 1231. 
„ lobster, 1232. 
,, pheasant, a la Royale, 1230. 
,, prawns or shrimps, 1233. 
Preparation of paper for filtering orange 

juice, &c, 1421. 
Preserved hare, and other game, 1249. 
Princess sauce, 45. 
Provencale sauce, 25. 

,, (cold) sauce, 101. 

Profitrolles with chocolate, 1294. 
Puddings, meat, for removes or en- 
trees, page 222. 
„ beefsteak and oyster, 741. 

„ kidney, 743. 

,, mutton, 742. 

,, sausage, 746. 

„ of small birds, a la Chipola- 

ta, 744. 
,, snipe, a la D'Orsay, 745. 

Puddings for entremets, or second- 
course dishes, page 451. 






INDEX. 



581 



Puddings, brown bread, a la Gotha, 
1385. 

,, bread, (plain), 1400. 

„ rusk, 1401. 

,, biscuit, a la Prince Albert 
1403. 

,. „ alaCoburg, 1391. 

,, ,, a, la Francaise, 1392. 

,, ,, a la Viennoise, 1393. 

„ cabinet, 1394. 

,, chestnut, 1395. 

,, ginger, 1396. 

„ apple, 1402. 

,, pine-apple, 1397. 

,, plum, 1404. 

„ lemon, 1398. 

,, orange, 1399. 

,, tapioca, 1405. 
Puff-paste, 1261. 

,, patty-cases, 1264. 

„ platts, 1321. 

,, rings or wreaths, 1318. 

,, ,, marygolds, 1328. 

„ royals, 1308. 

,, Bhort, 1254. 

„ tartlets, 1325. 

,, walnuts, 1316. 

Quails, with stewed peas, 1041. 
a la Financiere, 1043. 
a la Perigueux, 1042. 
a la Royale, 1044. 
cutlets of, a la Boi-delaise, 1046. 
„ a la Marechale, 1045. 

fillets of, a la Parisienne, 1048. 
& la Talleyrand, 1047. 
scollops of, with cucumbers, 
1050. 

„ with truffles,l 049. 

Queen's cakes, 1296. 
Quenelle forcemeat, of fish, 246. 
„ of fowl, 243. 

„ of hare, 244, 

„ of lobsters, 247. 

„ of pheasants or par- 

tridges, 244. 
„ of rabbit, 244. 

,, of small birds, 245. 

Quenelles, bread panada for, 240. 

Pate-a-choux, panada for, 241 
Prep, of calf's udder, for, 

242. 
of fowls, & 1' essence, 1001. 
of partridges, a la D'Orsay, 
„ a la Printan- 

iere, 1093. 
of pheasants, 1017. 
of rabbit, 1062. 
a la Mare"chale, 1003. 
a la Toulouse, 1002. 

Rabbit, & la Bourguinonne, 1057. 
,, a la Chasseur, 1055. 
„ a la Perigueux, 1058. 



Rabbit, fillets of, larded, a la Marechale, 
1060. 
„ ,, & la Toulouse, 

1059. 
,, fried in batter, with Poivrade 
sauce, 1056. 
Rabbits, entrees of, or side dishes, 1055. 
,, how to dress, the same method 
as fowls, page 326. 
Ragout, Bourguignotte, for entries of 
game, 195. 
,, Cardinal, for chickens, &c.,200. 
,, Chipolata, for turkeys, &c.,190. 
„ crayfish, for fish entrees, 196. 

, Financiere, 188. 

„ Matelotte, for fish, 193. 
,, Norman Matelotte, for soles, 

&c, 194. 
,, Parisian, for fillets of partridg- 
es, &c, 203. 
,, Perigueux, for garnishing en- 
trees, &c, 192. 
,, Rouennaise, 197. 
„ Regents, 211. 
,, Richelieu, for bread-crumbed 

entrees, 207. 
„ Strasbourg, of fat livers, for 

fillets, &c, 191. 
,, a, la Tortue, for calf's-head,189. 
„ Toulouse, for garnishing fowls, 

&c, 187. 
„ of chickens' wings, 208. 
,, of cocks' kernels, a la Soubise, 

206. 
„ of ox-palates, 209. 
,, of sheep's-tongues, 210. 
,, scollops of poultry or game, 204 

,, of scollops of larks for an en- 

tree, 205. 
,, of scollops of sweetbreads, 198. 
,, of soft roes of mackerel, 199. 
,, of scollops of soles to garnish 

fish entries, 201. 
„ of scollops of salmon, 202. 
Ravigotte (white) sauce, 20. 
,, (green) sauce, 21. 
,, plain, 78. 
Red-currant-jelly sauce, for venison, 65. 
Regency sauce, 49. 

Remoulade sauce, for cold meat, &c, 95. 
Roast black game and grouse, 1149. 
capons, 1146. 
green-goose, 1147. 
guinea fowls, 11506. 
hare, 1138. 
larks, 1144. 
peahens, 1150a. 
partridges, 1141. 
pheasant, 1140. 
pigeons, 1148. 
quails, 1142. 
rabbits, 1139. 
ruffs and reeves, 1143. 
woodcocks and snipes, 1145. 



582 






INDEX. 



Roasts, second course, 344. 
Robert sauce, for pork cutlets, 67. 
Roux white, for thickening Veloute" 

sauce, 238. 
,, brown, for thickening Espagnole 

sauce, 239. 
Russian sauce, 35. 

Salsifis, a. la creme, 1153. 

„ fried in battel-, 1154. 
Salmis of partridges, with aspic-jelly, 
1220. 
,, sauce, 10. 
',, ,, a l'Ancienne, 11. 

Salad, German, 1216. 
„ Italian, 1214. 
,, Russian, 1215. 
Salmon, a l'Anglaise, 418. 
,, a la Cardinal, 415. 
,, a la Chamborg, 412. 
,, a l'Ecossaise, 419. 
,, a, la Ge"noise, 414. 
,, a la Mar6chale, 417. 
,, a la Regence, 413. 
,, a la Tartare, 420. 
,, a la Victoria, 416. 
,, matelotte of, 421. 
,, slices of, a la V6nitienne, 422. 
Sandwiches, Indian, 1212. 

„ a la Regence, 1240. 

,, anchovy, 1213. 

,, of fillets of soles, &c, 1241. 

,, Badminton, 1241a. 

„ Bredby, 12416. 

,, Summer, 1241c. 

Sauerkraut, German, 165. 
,, French, 166. 

Savoy cake in the form of a ham, 1364. 
Scotch bread, 1 278. 
Seakale, puree of, 127. 

„ ii la sauce, 1191. 
Shrimp sauce, 53. 

,, plain, 74. 

Sicilian sauce, 60. 
Skate, crimped, boiled, 530. 
„ fried, 531. 

„ with nutbrown butter, 532. 
„ fried, a l'ltalienne, 533. 
,, with fine-herbs, nu gratin, 534. 
,, a la Pascaline, 535. 
,, a la Royale, 636. 
Smelts, fried, &c, 500. 
Snipes, salmis of, a la Bordelaise, 1102. 
Soles, fried, with shrimp sauce, 465. 
„ boiled, with Dutch sauce, 466. 
„ a, la Colbert, 467. 
„ au gratin, 468. 
,, with fine-herbs, 469. 
„ a la Parisiinne, 470. 
,, a la Mar<5chale, 471. 
,, matelotte Normande of, 472. 
„ „ a la Plessy, 473. 

Sorrel, pure"e of, for fricaudeaux, &c, 
113. 



Souffle of rice, 1373. 
,, apricot, 1378. 
„ brown bread, 1380. 

, chocolate, 1374. 
„ coffee, 1375. 
„ ginger, 1376. 
„ pipe-apple, 1377. 
„ raspberries, 1379. 
,, potato-flower, 1372. 
,, iced, with maraschino, &c, 

1457. 
,, „ au cafe", &c, 1458. 

Souffles of partridge, a la Royale, 1095. 
Soup, barley, a la Princesse, 260. 

Borsch, or Polish, 380. 

Bonne-femme, 315. 

Bouillabaise, or Provencale, 379. 

Briinoise, 273. 

calf's-feet, a la Windsor, 855. 

Ceylon-moss, gelatinous chicken 
broth, 396. 

chicken, or game custards, 892. 

chicken panada, 390, 102. 

chickens and rice, 268. 

Chiffonnade, 625. 

cocky-leeky, 269. 

clear consomme" with riee, 266. 

clear rice, with asparagus heads, 
267. 

Dauphine, 259. 

Crecy, with whole rice, &c, 309 

deer's-head, a la Chasseur, 360. 

Desclignac, 277. 

eel, a la Richmond, 338, 81 

Flemish, 275. 

fillets of flounders, a l'Anglaise, 
339. 

giblet, a l'Anglaise, 352. 

clear giblet, a l'lrlandaise, 353 

grouse, ii la Montagnarde, 361. 

hare, a l'Anglaise, 356. 
„ St. George, 357. 

hodge-podge, 271. 

Italian-paste, 264. 

Jardiniere, 254. 

Julienne, 255. 

knuckle of veal and rice, 272. 

Lasagnes, 265. 

lettuce and whole peas, 274. 

leveret, a la llusse, 358. 

macaroni, 263. 

,, a la Medicis, 385. 

„ a la St. Pierre, 386. 

a la Royale, 384. 

mulligatawney, 351. 

nutritious liquid custards of chick- 
en, 394. 

ox-tnil, 364. 

ox-cheek, 359. 

Ouka, or Russian, 381. 

Olla Podrida, or Spanish, 382. 

Nivernaise, 276. 

oyster, a la Plessy, 336. 

Palestine, 296. 



INDEX. 



583 



Soup, Paysaune, 278. 

,, pheasant or partridge, panada, 391 

„ Pilaff, or Turkish, 383. 

„ potato, a la creme, 310. 

„ ,, ,, Victoria, 311. 

,, quenelles of fowl in consomme", 261 

„ Raviolis a la Napolitaine, 375. 

„ rice, a la Florentine, 376. 

,, a la Piemontaise, 377. 

,, a la B6arnaise, 378. 

„ of fillets of Soles, a la Bagration, 
337. 

,, „ Game, 395. 

,, spring, 252. 

,, ,, a la Vertpre", 253. 

„ sportsman's clear, 276. 

„ Semolina, a la Palerme, 387. 

„ ,, a la Pisane, 339. 

„ „ a la V<5nitienne, 388. 

„ Scotch broth, 270. 

„ turtle, 347. 

,, ,, clear, 348. 

,, ,, mock, 349. 

„ „ „ clear, 350. 

„ clear vermicelli, 262. 

„ a la Fabert, 304. 

,, a la Faubonne, 302. 

„ a la Ferney, 301. 

„ a la Hollandaise, 316. 

„ of bisque of crabs, a la Fitzhard- 
inge, 332. 

,, ,, crayfish, a l'Ancienne, 

331. 

„ ,, a, la Malmesbury, 

" 332. 

„ ,, lobsters, a la Stanley, 

334. 

„ „ prawns, alaCerito,335 

„ „ quails, a la Prince Al- 

bert, 328. 

„ „ rabbits, auVeloute, 229 

,, ,, snipes, a la bonne- 

bouche, 330. 

„ cream of pearl barley, a la Duch- 
esse, 327. 

„ „ ,, a la Princesse 

326. 

„ „ ,, a la Printan- 

iere, 323. 

„ ,, ,, a la Koine, 

322. 

m 5> >» & ^ a Royale, 

324, 325. 

„ cream of rice, a la Cardinal, 319. 

„ ,, a la Royale, 317. 

„ ,, a la Chasseur, 321. 

„ „ a la Juvenal, 320. 

„ ,, a la Victoria, 318. 

„ of gratinated crusts, a laBeaujon, 
283. 

„ „ alaFerneuse 

282. 

,, „ a la Jardin- 

iere, 279. 



Soup of gratinated crusts, a la Princesse 
280. 
„ „ a la Royale, 

281. 
,, pur^e of asparagus, alaConde",313. 
, „ ,, alaSt.George, 

314. 
,, „ of artichokes, 297. 
,, ,, of carrots, a la Cre"cy, 293. 
„ „ a la Stanley, 308. 
,, brown puree of chestnuts, 299. 
,, white pure"e of chestnuts, 300. 
„ ,, of endives, 208. 

„ pur6e of fowl, a la Reine, 362. 
,, „ alaPrintaniere,3G3 

„ „ a la Princesse, 364. 

„ ,, a la Celestine, 365. 

„ „ French partridges, a la 

Conti, 266. 
,, „ hare, a, la Conti, 572. 

„ „ partridges, a la Beaufort, 

370. 
„ „ lentils, a la Reine, 288. 

,, ,, ,, a la Soubise, 289. 

,, ,, „ a la Brunoise, 290 

„ ,, green peas, 291. 

,, puree of peas, a l'Anglaise, 284. 
„ „ green split peas, 285. 

„ ,, red haricot-beans, 286 

,, ,, white haricot, 287. 

„ „ green peas, a la Victo- 

ria, 306. 
,, „ ,, a la Prin- 

cesse,307 
„ , pheasants, a la Royale, 

367. 
,, „ „ a la Dauph- 

ine, 368. 
n »» » a l'Anglaise, 

369. 
,, ,, ,, a la Balzac, 

371. 
„ „ rabbits, h, la Mattre 

d'H6tel,373 
, ,, „ a la Chantilly, 

374. 
„ „ roots, 292. 

„ „ spinach, a la Beauvaux, 

301. 
„ ,, spring-herbs, 305. 

„ brown pur6e of turnips, 294. 
,, white pure"e of turnips, 295. 
Spanish puffs, 1336. 
,, cakes, 1291. 
Spinach, pur£e of, for cutlets, &c. 112. 
„ with butter, 1155. 
,, with cream, 1156. 
„ extract of, for coloring, 285. 
Spongada di Roma, 1460. 
„ di Toledo, 1461. 
,, di Venezza, 1462. 
Stock sauces, brown and white, 2. 
Sturgeon sauce, f?6. 

soup, ala'Ameicaine,340. 



584 






INDEX. 



Sturgeon soup, a l'Anglaise, 341. 

,, ,, a l'lndienne, 342. 
Suisse Lecrelets, 1298J. 
Supreme sauce, 38. 

,, of game, 39. 

,, of fruits,, 1455. 

Swan of Savoy cake, alaChantilly,1363. 
Sweetbreads larded, with stewed peas, 
&c, 920. 

,, ,, a la Conti, 904. 

,, „ Epigramme of, 907. 

,, ,, a la Monarque,903. 

,, ,, alaParisienne, 906 

„ „ a la St.. Cloud, 905. 

„ - >> scollops of, with 

shalot gravy, 908. 

,, ,, a, la Dauphine, 909. 

„ „ alaD'Uxelles,910. 

,, ,, alaMar6chale,911. 

„ „ a la Soubise, 912. 

„ , a la Poulette, 913. 

,, ,, a la Russe, 913. 

,, ,, alaProvencale,913 

Swedish macai'oons, 1298c. 

Talmouses, a la creme, 1312. 
,, with cheese, 1313. 

Tartare sauce, 96, 21. 
Teal, salmis of, 1104. 

,, fillets of, a l'Anglaise, 1104. 

,, ,, a la Bigarrade, 1105. 

Timbale of macaroni, a la Milanaise,772. 

,, ,, a la Mazarin, 773. 

,, of nouilles, a la Chasseur, 774. 

,, garnished with soft roes of 

mackerel, 775. 
,, of raviolis, a la llomaine, 776. 
Tomata sauce, 22. 
Tomatas, puree of, for cutlets, &c, 120. 

,, au gratin, 1100. 
Tongue, with aspic-jelly (cold entre'e), 

1227. 
Tourte of whitings, a la Dauphine, 768. 
,, of Godiveau, au Madere, 769. 
,, of ox-palates, a la Francaise, 770. 
,, of scollops of lobster, a la Cardi- 
nal, 771. 
Trout, ii l'Aurore, 427. 
,, a la Chevaliere, 425. 
,, a la G'asconne, 424. 
,, a Pltalienne, 423. 
,, ii la Koyale, 429. 
„ a la Vertprf (cold entre'e), 1224. 
,, broiled, with Dutch sauce, 430. 
,, au gratin, 426. 
,, in cases, with fine-herbs, 428. 
Truffles, pure"e of, for fillets of fowls, 
&c, 121. 
„ garnish of, for an entre'e, &c, 

128. 
,, ,, a laParisienne, 129 

,, ,, with Supreme sauce 

130. 
h „ whole 131. 



Truffles, large, a la Serviette, 1162. 

,, a la Pie"montaise, 1163. 
Turban of ox-palates, a la Pe"rigueux, 
798. 

,, of fillets of fowls, a la Prince de 
Galles, 799. 

,, of fillets of rabbits, a la Finan- 
cier, 300. 

„ of fillets of hares, a la Conti, 801. 

,, of fillets of soles, a la Ximenes, 
802. 
Turbot, plain boiled, with lobster sauce, 
397. 

,, a la Bechamel, 403. 

„ a la Careme, 400a. 

,, a la creme, au gratin, 401. 

„ a la Marechale, 404. 

,, a la Parisienne, 398. 

„ a la Vatel, 400a. 

,, broiled, a la Provencale, 399. 

,, fillets of, a l'lndienne, 405. 

,, ,, a la Ravigotte, 406. 

„ „ a la Cardinal, 409. 

„ ,, a l'ltalienne, 408. 

,, „ a la Vertpre, 407. 

,, in matelotte Normande, 402. 
Turkeys, removes of, or top and bottom 

dishes, 660. 
Turkey, roast, a la Pdrigord, 660. 

,, ,, a 1'Angliiise, 662. 

,, ,, a la Chipolata, 661 

,, ,, a la Financiere, 663. 

„ boiled, with pur<5e of celery, CGI. 

„ " with oyster sauce, 665. 
Turnips, glac<?s, with sugar, 1177. 

,, garnish of, for ducklings, 136. 

,, pur£e of, for cutlets, &c, 109. 
Turtle sauce, for calf s-head, 9. 

Vegetable marrow, 1179. 
Venison panada, 393. 
Veal entries of, or side dishes, 880. 
, cutlets, a la Financiere, 889. 
., „ a la Dreux, 890. 
„ ,, a la Duchesse, 893. 
,, ,, a la Perigord, 891. 
,, „ a la Zingaia, 892. 
,, ,, in papilottes. 894. 
, fricandeau of, with pure"e of green 

peas, &c., 880. 
„ „ a la Mtice'doine, &o., 881 

,, noix of, a la Regence, 882. 
„ „ Toulouse, 883. 

,, grenadins of, with spinach, &c. 884 
,, tendons of, with stewed peas, 885. 
,, ,, a la "Villeroi, with pu- 

ree of celery, 886. 
Veal-kernels, with puree of artichokes, 
887. 
„ a la Talleyrand, 888. 

Veal and ham scollops, with Italiav 
sauce, 897. 
„ Scotch scollops of, 898. 
,, minced and poached eggs, 899. 






INDEX. 



585 



Veal, minced, another method, 900. 
,, ,, a la Portuguaiee, 901. 
,, roast fillet of, 576. 
Veal, removes of, or top and bottom 
dishes, 157. 
,, a la Jardiniere, 578. 

,, a, la Mac6doine, 577. 

roast neck of, a la creme, 579. 
braized neck of, a la Dreux, 581. 
,, a l'Ecarlate, 583. 

,, a la Montmorency, 

580. 
„ a, la Royale, 584. 

„ alaD'Uxelles, 582. 

noix of, a, la Financiere, 586. 
„ a la St. George, 585. 

,, a la Jardiniere, 588. 

„ a la Mac6doine, 587. 

roast loin of, 589. 
,, a la creme, 594. 
,, a la Dauphine, 591. 
,, a la Financiere, 593. 
,, a la Monglas, 590. 
,, a la Royale, 592. 
roast breast of, a l'Anglaise, 595. 
,, a la Bourgeoise, 

596. 
,, a la Financiere, 

598. 
„ a la Windsor, 597. 

rolled, breast of, a la Romaine,599. 
,, a la Royale, 600. 

Vegetable marrow, 1179. 
Venison, removes of, or top and bottom 
dishes, 651. 
,, entries of, or side dishes, 958. 
,, ,, another method, 959. 

,, haricot of, 958. 
,, ,, another method, 959. 

„ chops, 962. 

fry, 963.. 
„ civet of, 960. 
„ scollops of, 961. 
,, roebuck, cutlets of, a la Chas- 
seur, 964. 
„ „ filletsof,alaKinnaird 

with Poivrade sauce 
966. 
„ „ civet of, 967. 

,, red-deer, haunch of, a l'Ecos- 

saise, 654. 
„ „ a la Glengarry, 655. 

,, ,, a la Kinnaird, 656. 

,, necks of, a la Marie Stuart, 657. 
,, ,, a la St. Andrew, 658. 

Venison, fillets of, a la Royale, 659. 



Venison, haunch of. a l'Anglaise, 651. 
„ ,, a l'Allemande, 652. 

„ ,, ala St. Andrew, 658. 

,, „ a la St. George, 653. 

Vol'au'vent, a la Nesle, 762. 

,, it la Financiere, 763. 

,, of cod, a. la creme, 766. 

,, of salmon, a la Ravigotte, 

765. 
,, of salt-fish, a, l'Anglaise, 

767. 
„ of turbot, a la Be'chamel, 

764. 
Venetian sauce, 26. 

Wastrefische sauce, 88. 
Watersouchet of crimped salmon, 343. 
,, plain, 344. 

,, fillets of perch, 345. 

,, „ soles, 346. 

Wheatearsin cases, with fine-herbs,llll. 
White-bait, how to fry, 537. 
„ Italiau sauce, 13. 

,, puddings, a la Royale, 957. 

,, veloute sauce, 4. 

Whiting-poults, how to dress, page 136. 
Whitings, boiled, 490. 
„ fried, 491. 

broiled, 492. 
,, fillets of, a laMaitre d'Hotel, 

486. 
„ „ a la Horly, 487. 

,, ,, a la Mare'chale, 488. 

,, ,, a la Royale, 489. 

Widgeon, a, l'Am^ricaine, 1107. 

,, salmis of, 1104. 
Wild ducks, salmis of, a la Bigarrade, 
1105. 
,, fillets of, a la Provencale, 

1106. 
Wild duck, salmis of, 1103. 
Wild goose, a l'Aberdeen, 701. 
„ a l'Allemande, 702. 

Windsor beans, pure"e of, for cutlets, &c, 
107. 
„ a la creme, 1173. 

,, garnish of, for hams, 

&c, 151. 
Woodcocks, a la Financiere, 1096. 
„ a la Pdrigord, 1097. 

,, fillets of, si PAncienne, 1098. 

,, ,, a la Perigueux, 

1099. 
,, salmis, a. la Minute, 1100. 

,, ,, Bourguignotte, 

1101. 






THE END. 



> 






i 



> 



I 



i 



