Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 



'u^jSPSS 



SCIENTIFIC FARMING 



MADE EASY. 



SCIENTIFIC FARMING 



MADE EASY: 



OB, 



THE SCIENCE OF AGRICULTURE 



REDUCED TO PRACTICE. 



BT 



THOMAS C. FLETCHE R, 



**U prftotioe without theory be contemptible; theory, professing to teach 
without practioe* is foolhardy." 



LONDON: 
ROUTLEDGE, WARNE, & ROUTLEDGB, 

FARRINGDON STREET; 
NEW YORK: $6, WALKER STREET. 

1860. 



LOSDOH: 

COX AKD WTHAK, PBIVTEBS, 6BBAT QUBBK 8TBBBT, 

LnrcOLV'S-IKK VIBLDS. 




TO 



JOB BRADSHAW, ESa 

Proprietor and Editor qfthe " Nottingham Jowmalf" 



AKD TO THE 



FAEMERS OF NOTTINGHAMSHIRE; 

ALL OF GOOD THAT THE FOLLOWING PAGES MAY CONTAIN 
n SO THSM JirnXLT AITD X08S BBBPXOTWLLT 

• • ■! 

Seeing that it is entirely owing to/iftet&dfilties^afiforded by the former, 
and the kind and indulgent reception ^j Uielatt^z of a series of Letters 
published in the Nottingham JowrvM some fijoiiBen jears ago, under the 
Signature of ''0. P. Q." that the Author has been led to study the best 
means of applying the Science of Agriculture to practice. And he humbly 
hopes that whatever knowledge he may have acquired firom the study of a 
science which has afforded so much pleasure to himself, may not be 
entirely without use to others. 



LoHSOir, SepttwJbWt 1860. 



EEEATA. 



Page 49, line 12 from the top, /or "rich mould," read " dry mould." 
„ „ „ 6 „ bottom, for " £umyard dung," read " com- 
post dung." 
„ 59, „ 19 „ top, /or "ithas," reoci" they have." 
„ „ „ 20 „ „ for " its," read " their." 
„ 70, „ 8 „ ,t add " In purchasing beware of factory 

flue^ust." 
„ US, „ 10 „ „ for "to the side," read " by the side." 



CONTENTS. 



PART I.— THE SOIL AND ITS FERTILIZERS. 

CHAPTER I. 
Introductory Page 1 



CHAPTEE IL 

Habtts Aio) Food of Plaitts. — ^Their gimilarity to animals-— 
Instincts — Powers of locomotion, to struggle for health, and 
expel diseases — Food of plants — Absurd theories — How plants 
derive their support — Sap of plants, its motion and simihuity 
in all cases — Organic and inorganic chemical compounds — ^What 
plants derive firoin the atmosphere, what from the soil 10 

Carbonic Acid. — Its composition — Its effects upon the human 
frame — ^What plants derive from it — How taken up and 
solidified 18 

Constituents OP Watbb.— How water is formed — Its properties 
in promoting vegetable growth — Contraction of, by cold, and 
expansion by heat — Specific gravity of 21 

Ammonia. — How formed — Varieties, and their composition — 
Souroes from which derived — Importance of, in promoting vege- 
tation — How to prevent its escape — Its effects on catUe — ^Prodigal 
waste — Cost of a stink — Functions of ammonia, and what plants 
derive from it — ^Necessity for its abundant supply — Plants im- 
proved by it — Albumen, Fibrine, Gluten, Caseine, Legumine, 
their similarity and flesh-forming properties 24 

What Plants derive fbom .Cabbon. — Its fat-forming properties 
—Starch, Gum, Sugar, Lignine, their uses 32 



VUl CONTENTS. 

Inoboanio Constituents of Plants.— Potash, Soda, Lime, Mag- 
nesia, Phosphoric Acid, their presence in plants, and uses — 
Fixed ingredients in pLmts — Fixed ingredients in manures — 
Influence of manures upon pUnts — Necessity for a change of 
manures — Rotation of crops — Farmyard dung Page 84 



CHAPTER ni. 

Manubes. — Baron Liebig — Results of his theory — Its value 
tested 42 

Chemistby of thb Dttnohill.— Collection of materials — Mode of 
erection, and Management — Loss of weight, &c., by exposure 
— ^Value of &rmyard dung — Mr. Meohi's theory — Advantages 
and disadvantages of the muck-heap — Lord Kinnaird's experi- 
ments 48 

Comfost-hbaps. — Their importance — Instructions for their erec- 
tion and management — ^Weeds, their value— Analysis of 55 

Special Manubes. — Salt, its qualities — ^Effects of, on Manures — 
Effects on plants and soils — ^Advantages of combining salt with 
ammonia — Their separate and conjoint action — Mod9 of appli- 
cation — Quantity to be used 61 

Soot. — Its properties — ^Analysis of— How to buy 68 

Gas Refuse. — ^Manufacture of gas — ^Residues left — ^Ammoniacal 
liquor — Its properties — ^Mode of treatment — Its effect upon grass 
land. Gas Ldie. — Its composition — Mode of treatment— Ad- 
vantage of mixing with salt — Crops benefited by it. Gas Tab. 
— Its uses — Experiment on potatoes 70 — 76 & 188 

LiiCE. — Its properties — Quality — ^How to purchase — Effects of — 
Danger of using too much 76 

Bones. — ^Their introduction, and fertilizing properties discovered 
— Early mode of crushing — Introduction of machinery for grind- 
ing — Constituents of raw bones, their fertilizing properties — 
Boiled bones — Super-phosphate, or dissolved bones — Adultera- 
tion — Composition of super-phosphate — ^Table for determining 
the value of super-phosphates — ^Instructions for their manufac- 
ture, and estimate of cost — ^Instructions for analysis — Sulphuric 
acid, and how to buy it — On the purchase of bones, tricks of the 
trade, ^. 81 



CONTENTS. IX 

GoPBOLiTE.— Wood Ashes—Goal Ashes, and their analyng Page 94 

Artificial Manures — Liebig's Agricultural Chemistry — ^Analy- 
ses of some artificial manures — ^Tables for determining the money 
value of manures — Guano analyses — Instructions for detecting 
adulteration — ** Essence of guano " — Its composition » . . 96 

Manures, Waste of. — ^House-wash — ^Drainage from dungheaps — 
Besidues of manufactures — Potash wasted by printers — ^Urineat 
railway-stations, &c 110 

Mixing artificial Manures for use »-...»«.. 116 



PART II.— CATTLE-FEEDINQ. 

Preliminary observations — Defined object necessary — Synoptical 
table of the breeds of neat cattle, sheep, and swine — ^Remarks 
on purchasing — Symmetry of shape — Mesh — ^Breeding — ^Theory 
of cattle-feeding — Constituents of food — Quantity required — 
Table of equivalents, showing the flesh- and &t-forming con- 
stituents of crops per acre 121 

Special Foods for Cattle. — ^Mangold- wurzel^— Experiments with 
— Results — Nutritive properties — General observations on .... 136 

Linseed Cake. — Increasing demand for — Liability to adulteration 
— Products of oleaginous seeds — Cultivation and importation of 
linseed — Process of manufiEhcture into cake — Comparative value 
of foreign and home-made cake — ^Adulterations — ^Instructions 
for detection — ^Yalue of cake in improving manures — Rape cake 
— Cotton-seed cake, anaiysis of — Other descriptions of cake — 
Carob bean (locust), analysis of — Distillers' dregs, analysis of-— 
Effects of linseed cake upon meat — ^Linseed jelly — ^How to 
prepare— Quantity to use — ^Effects upon the production of dung 140 

Pulped Food. — Theory in fitvour of— Experiments with 151 

Cooked Food. — Mr. Mechi's views — Mr. Hutton's and Mr. 
Thompson's experiments — ^Mr. Mechi's observations upon Lord 
Fortescue's farm — Objections, &o 160 



X CONTENTS. 

OvaBPEEDiHO. — ^Tendenoy to produce disease — Mr. Grant's ob- 
jections examined Page 168 

CoMPABATiVB Valub OF FoDDBB Cbops, Table of 171 

Use op Salt in Feeding Cattle. — Mr. Curwen's experience — 
Lord Somerville's evidence and testimony to its efiPects in pre- 
venting disease in sheep — Mr. Curwen's practice as to quan- 
tity 172 

Tbmpbbatube^ Ventilation j and Glbanlinbss 177 



APPENDIX. 

A. — Difiference between chemical compounds and mechanical 
mixtures 181 

B. — ^Instructions for detection of adulteration in bones 182 

C. — ^Advertised Cattle-foods — Observations — Comparative values 
— ^Mr. Lawe's experiments — ^Analyses of composition 183 

D. — Effects of Gas Tar as manure for potatoes — Besult of experi- 
ment 188 



PART I. 



THE SOIL AND ITS FERTILIZERS. 



SCIENTIFIC FAEMING 

MADE EAST. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

"What, another book on Farming?'' some peevish 
old gentleman may possibly exclaim, on reading our 
title-page ; " why publish more books on agriculture ? 
we have had plenty of such trite stuff of late ; besides, 
what can authors know about farming ? It is not to 
be learned from books ; it can only be acquired by long 
laborious practice. Don't tell me of a man delivering his 
precepts upon agriculture from his study, surrounded by 
books, without even pretending to have had experience ; 
propounding new theories and laying down new laws 
as though they were established axioms, when, in fact, 
they are for the most part only mistakes, copied froni 
other wiseacres who have preceded him." 

To such objectors the author would say : his object 
has, throughout, been not so much to propound new as 
to test existing theories by practice, and, by collecting 
together a number of well -authenticated experiments 
and placing them by the side of the theories they were 
intended to test, to give thereby to the agricultural 
community the full benefit of the combined experience 

B 



f 

2 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

of those intelligent and diligent inquirers who have 
incurred the trouble and cost of investigating the prin- 
ciples involved in the discoveries of others. 

Although science has done much, no one is more 
ready than I am to admit that farming can neither be 
taught wholly by chemistry, geology, mechanics, mathe- 
matics, nor any pther abstract science whatsoever. To 
learn farming^ a man must farm. Theory may guide 
and assist practice ; but practice alone can test the value 
of theory. A wheelwright, before he begins to build a 
wagon, will form some plan for its structure, and not 
till then will he proceed to put it in practice. All 
plan is theory, and everything produced by the skill 
and ingenuity of man is nothing more than theory 
reduced to practice. Theory is not, as some foolishly 
imagine, opposed to practice, but performs the office of 
a lapp to enlighten its path ; and, although the light 
shed may not be equal to that of broad day, still it is 
better than no light at all. Man is made for the 
acquirement of knowledge, and has a natural curiosity 
to learn the reason of everything ; and why should he 
not indulge a craving that will both amuse and bring 
forth instruction ? I do not presume in this work to 
embody a complete theoretical system of farming, a 
subject far beyond my reach. I disclaim, also, the idea 
of being either exclusively scientific or original; my 
aim is to be practically useful, and to offer to my readers 
the result of much reading, observation, and actual 
experience; and, if impelled to indulge occasionally in 
theoretical speculation, I shall venture only to introduce 
into these pages such views as have an immediate bearing 
and influence upon practice. These will be readily 
understood by every farmer who joins some reading and 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 3 

reflection to experience, and may, I trust, in cases of 
doubt, help to direct his operations. 
* As the object of all farming operations is to produce 
food and clothing, and as the objects of food and clothing 
are to sustain life and strength, and to produce that 
degree of temperature in the bodies of men and animals 
as will best enable them to perform their required amount 
of labour, so is it the object of this work to point out 
how, and in what way, these conditions may be obtained 
at the least expenditure of labour, money, and time. 

In all that appertains to Manures, their constituents 
and process of manufacture, I have stated nothing but 
what has been borne out by my own actual experience 
and that of numerous friends, spread over a long series 
of years, and tested under many and various adverse 
circumstances. For that portion of the work devoted to 
Artificial Foods and Cattle-Feeding, I can claim 
no other credit than that due for much care and labour 
l>estowed in compiling and comparing a series of well- 
combined and carefully-conducted experiments, made 
by some of the most eminent and successful grazing 
farmers of the present time. 

The directions given for analyses are not intended to 
be taken as scientifically and decimally correct ; for 
such exact details the works of Rose, Freseinus, and 
Johnston should be consulted; but they are such as 
may well serve for practical purposes, while, at the 
same time, they possess the advantage of being so simple 
as not to require elaborate apparatus, and may be per- 
formed by any farmer at his own fireside. 

The Tables introduced are taken from various au- 
thentic sources, and I feel much pleasure in acknow- 
ledging the assistance I have derived from the writvck^ 

B 2 



4 SCIEKTIFIG FARMING MADE EAST. 

of Voelcker, Anderson, Sibson, Sprengel, Hodgson, Way, 
and others ; and if the authorities are not always indi* 
vidually referred to, the omission is solely to be attributed 
to want of space. 

Before proceeding to the more practical portion of 
my work, I propose to offer a few observations upon 
what appears to be one of the great features of the age : 
viz., the application of science to practice. 

" Practice with Science " is the very appropriate 
motto of the " Quarterly Journal of the Royal Agricul- 
tural Society;" and truly may it be said that science, 
during the last fifty years, has done more for agriculture 
than the unskilled practice of many previous centuries. 
Yet, obvious as this may seem, there are many, even now, 
who draw the same line of distinction between science 
and practice as between mere speculation and experience, 
and, with a bigoted adherence to old ways, obstinately 
avert their eyes from all modern improvement, and persist 
in looking at farming operations solely through their 
grandfathers' spectacles. It is this blind adherence to 
old prejudices that has prevented the science of agri- 
culture from progressing with the same rapid strides as 
those that so wonderfully attest the growth and power 
of our manufactures, and the vast augmentation of our 
national wealth. And yet there is no trade or occupation 
which admits of experiments being so easily and inex- 
pensively made as that of a farmer ; seeing that, for all 
useful purposes, an experiment made upon 100 square 
yards is quite as demonstrative as one made upon as 
many acres. I have often heard it remarked that a 
really good register of well- authenticated experiments 
would be of the greatest value ; and I cannot but think, 
that if a number of farmers were to agree among them- 



INTRODUCTOBT REMARKS. 5 

selves to make various experiments, and have the results 
carefully combined and noted down, such a record would 
form an invaluable guide for future action. Were this 
system thoroughly carried out, a farmer would no longer 
be content with his land barely producing him four 
rentals, for he would see, by the experiments made by 
his neighbour, that it is capable of being made to 
produce as much as eight. Nor would he continue to 
grow a tall rank wheat-straw, with a light yield of 
grain, if he saw his neighbour growing a strong, short, 
glassy straw, firmly supporting a well-filled ear. Ex- 
perience has shown that this can be done, and that, too, 
in the face of a bad season ; and we all know that what 
has been done once may be done again. 

There is no good reason why the farms of England 
should yield crops so greatly inferior in comparison 
with what our market-gardeners produce. Professor 
Playfair, a reliable authority, has stated that the value 
of £250 has been produced from a single acre of market- 
garden ground in one year. Why, then, should not 
our farms be made comparatively profitable ? That 
they are not so we all know, and the reason is obvious. 
The market-gardener is generally content to cultivate 
no more ground than his capital is equal to ; while the 
farmer, on the other hand, is continually grasping at 
more land, when he has barely capital sufficient to farm 
properly what he already 'occupies. It cannot be too 
strongly urged as a truth, that no tenant farmer, 
straitened for capital, can ever farm well or profitably; 
and for parties in this predicament there is but one 
mode of extrication, which they ought not to lose a 
moment in adopting ; viz., to restrict themselves to half 
the number of acres. By so doing, they would not 



O SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

only double their acreage capital, but lessen their ex- 
penditure, and be able to concentrate their energies with 
greater advantage. Moreover, by decreasing the com- 
petition for land, rents would necessarily become more 
moderate, and they would be thereby placed in a better 
position to secure the value of their permanent improve* 
ments than they are now. By resolutely adopting this 
prudent course, we should hear no more of such idle 
excuses as " Can't afford it," when improvements were 
suggested. We should then no longer look with pity 
on a solitary individual undertaking the labour of a 
20-acre field ; but we should see some half-dozen hands 
employed upon it, in the various duties of draining, 
fencing, scouring, cleaning, and other operations, all 
essential to a good crop. True, the small farmer would 
have to pay more for labour ; but, on the other hand, 
he would have to pay less for poor, police, and county 
rates ; he would obtain larger crops, and thus be enabled 
to produce a larger quantity of beef and mutton, besides 
procuring thereby an extra quantity of manure, and 
consequently the saving of many pounds annually in the 
purchase of artificial fertilizers. In short, he would gain 
on all sides, to a much larger extent than would counter- 
balance the cost of extra labour employed. 

Mr. Mechi observes — and upon such a subject as this 
he is no mean authority — that '' the quantity of meat 
made on a farm per acre, determines the quantity of com 
growri.'^ And he adds : " By putting a few questions to a 
farmer, I can almost immediately arrive at a conclusion 
as to his position, without visiting his farm. The first 
question would be, * How much meat do you make per 
acre over the whole acreage of your farm ?' '' 

This question has been solved by Mr. Thomas Dyke 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS* 7 

Acland, in the Royal Agricultural Society's Journal, 
vol. xi, p. 666. He there shows that the largest 
corn-growing farmer in Norfolk, a most successful man, 
produces 4^ score of meat on every acre of his land. 
Compare this with the general average of the farms of 
this kingdom, which certainly do not produce one score 
pounds of meat per acre. The more meat you make, 
the more manure you produce and the more corn you 
grow. The common labourer is the best evidence on 
this point. With his patch of ground, about one-eighth 
of an acre, he knows that unless he keeps a pig to make 
manure, he cannot expect a crop. Therefore he fattens 
one pig, which consumes three sacks, or twelve bushels, 
of barley-meal, which at 7 lbs. of meal to 1 lb. of meat, 
would be 84 lbs. of meat, or four score on the one- 
eighth of an acre, or over 32 score per acre. — (How 
to Farm Profitably^ p. 6.) While, with respect 
to com produce, let us take a lesson from some of 
the cottagers in the county of Lincoln ; and the fact 
I am about to state may be useful to those who may 
object to the comparison between farm and market- 
garden produce. Many of these cottagers, by means 
of their pollard-fed pig and spade-culture, produce 
14 bushels of wheat to the rood, or 56 bushels per acre, 
while our national corn-growing average hardly exceeds 
20 bushels per acre. 

In spite, however, of much prevailing ignorance, 
considerable progress in agricultural improvement, as 
we have already observed, has been made during the 
last half-century ; although, it must be confessed, that 
scientific farming is still in its infancy. And, while 
admitting that the produce of the soil of England has 
been nearly doubled during the last fifty years, it 



8 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

cannot be questioned that it is capable of being made 
to produce a still far greater amount of food ; and this 
mainly by extra manure, additional labour, and a 
judicious application of science to practice; and I do 
not hesitate to say, that, until the farmer has done this, 
he has no right to look for public sympathy on the plea 
of either light crops or low prices. A light grain-crop 
is generally attended by a rank straw ; and a rank and 
overgrown straw is in nearly all cases the result of either 
ignorance or indolence, or both combined, and may be 
easily remedied by the substitution of skilled culture 
for the one, and increased energy for the other. 

I have before observed that the proper office of science 
is to direct and guide practice, and place it upon an 
intelligible basis, by pointing out the connection between 
cause and effect, and to explain how certain operations 
necessarily lead to certain results. Practice without 
such a guide, is at best but a kind of groping in 
the dark, a tedious, expensive, and uncertain process, 
resulting in a confused mass of facts and impressions, 
vehich every simpleton hugs to his heart as an idol, 
calling it ** experience." That experience is a good 
schoolmistress nobody denies, and she would be a much 
better one were her terms not so high ; moreover, if she 
gave reasons for her teachings, she would become id- 
valuable ; but this she does not pretend to do. Practice 
in itself, unfortunately, explains nothing, and as its 
results, although obtained under comparatively similar 
conditions, frequently differ, it is utterly beyond its 
unreasoning power to explain the cause of this differ- 
ence. Here science steps in, and by means of chemistry, 
clears up all that before was dark and mysterious; it 
teaches us the nature and the properties of different 



INTRODUOTOBT AEMAHKS. 9 

substances ; it shows the changes which these substances 
are continually undergoing, and explains why such 
changes occur, and the way in which they are brought 
about. 

It is not expected, nor necessary, however, that every 
farmer should become an expert chemist ; such an attain- 
ment, however desirable in itself, would be, with his 
daily occupations, scarcely practicable; but it is abso- 
lutely necessary for his own interest that he should have 
such a practical acquaintance with chemistry as would 
enable him not only to apply right things to their right 
uses, but also to protect himself against fraud and impo- 
sition in the purchase of such artificial substances as he 
may require for fertilizing his soil, or feeding his cattle. 

The advantages conferred upon agriculture by science 
may be thus briefly recapitulated : — An accurate know- 
ledge of the component parts 'of the various plants 
required for food of both man and beast, also in what 
they are alike, and wherein they differ; and further, 
what portion of their nourishment and substance they 
derive from the atmosphere and what from the soil; — 
how the juices required for their support are elaborated, 
and how taken up ; and how certain substances in the 
soil have heat-giving, or fat-forming, and others, flesh- 
forming properties. 

We may here remark that it is to the scientific 
researches, and the unwearied industry of such men 
as Lawes and Gilbert, that the agricultural world 
has not been led astray by some of the dazzling theories 
of X<iebig. Thanks to the efforts and skill of these 
able men, the science of fertilization is now reduced 
to a recognized system, and the farmer has a reliable 
guide to direct him in all his manuring operations. 



10 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

Had science, indeed, done nothing more for the bene-» 
fit of farmers than to provide checks upon the frauds 
so frequently practised in the manure-market, it would 
have been amply sufficient to entitle Messrs. Lawes and 
Gilbert to the lasting gratitude of the agricultural 
community. But science has done much more than 
this: it has pointed out simple methods by which a 
farmer may, at but little trouble, not only detect 
adulteration, but estimate the comparative value of the 
different oil-cakes and other artificial foods he may 
require for feeding his stock. And it remains only to 
have this knowledge generally diffused, to enable every 
man engaged in agriculture to increase his produce and 
thereby augment his profits. 



-*o^ 



CHAPTER II. 

THE HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 

The resemblance of plants to animals is much greater 
than their respective appearances would lead us to 
suppose. All animals possess the powers requisite to 
enable them to support the state of being into which 
they have been called* These vary according to their 
nature, species, and the kind of food required for their 
support. This is precisely the case with plants : they 
are as amply endowed with the powers necessary for 
preserving vegetable life, as animals are for preserving 



THE HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. II 

animal life. To what other cause than an innate vitality* 
can we attribute the springing of the seed, the motion 
of the sap, the production of leaves, flowers, fruit, &c. ? 
These proceed as clearly from a vital power in the plant, 
as the beating of the heart, the circulation of the blood, 
&c., proceed from a vital power in animals. What is 
the stem of a plant, but a bundle of parallel tubes to 
convey the sap from the root to the leaves and return 
it to the root again, and corresponding in every par- 
ticular to the arteries and veins in the animal ? The 
roots, stems, and leaves of plants are all full of minute 
pipes for carrying the sap to every part of the vegetable 
structure, and these again exactly correspond with the 
chyle-ducts of the human frame ; and in short, there is 
not an argument for the one that is not equally con-> 
elusive for the other. 

Then as to the power of locomotion : this power is 
certainly more perfect in animals, — they require it to 
enable them to obtain food ; but plants possess such a 
share of it as is necessary for the same purpose : they 
grow both upwards and downwards, and in their pro- 
gress to maturity, they are continually occupying new 
parts of space. True, plants cannot, like animals, move 
out of harm's way ; but it is curious to observe how 
they exert that share of locomotion they are endowed 
with to avoid harm. The sensitive plant shrinks back 
and folds its leaves upon the slightest touch, as a snail 
retires into its cell. Another species of the same plant 

* Baron Liebig seems inclined to dispute, or at least to ignore, the 
existence of vital action in plants ; but as he has not accounted for the 
powers they exercise in any other way, he must pardon me if I con- 
tinue to call it " vital action " till furnished with a more appropriate 
term. 



12 . SCIENTIFIC 7ABMIVG MADE EAST* 

has acquired the name of " Fly-trap,'' from the fact, 
that if a fly perch upon one of its flowers, it closes 
instantly, and crushes the insect to death. The nettle 
never fails to sting the hand that touches it. Nor is 
there anything more interesting and beautiful in botany 
than a contrivance, visible in many plants, to take 
advantage of good weather and protect themselves from 
bad. They open and close their flowers and leaves, 
in different circumstances ; some open to receive rain, 
some close to avoid it. Thus all the trefoils may serve 
as a barometer to the husbandman : they always contract 
their leaves on an impending storm. 

A plant has also the power of directing its roots so as 
to obtain the utmost nourishment possible from the soil. 
Some years since I saw a plane-tree, about five-and- 
twenty feet high, perched on the top of a wall belonging 
to an old ruin in Scotland. Not having sufficient 
nourishment in that barren situation, it had some years 
before directed its roots down the side of the wall, till 
it reached the ground, at least ten feet below; and now 
the nourishment afforded to these roots during the time 
of their descending is amply repaid, the tree having 
every year since that time made vigorous shoots. From 
the top of the wall to the surface of the earth, I did 
not observe that these roots had thrown out a single 
fibre, but they are now united into a pretty thick root. 
Plants also, when forced from their natural position, 
are endowed with a power to recover it. The hop, the 
scarlet-runner, and other plants of like nature, have a 
propensity for twisting themselves round a stick, and 
this they do from West to South. If one of these 
plants be untwisted and twined in an opposite direction 
and tied there, in a few days it will wither and die ; if 



THB HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 13 

left loose, it will untwist itself and return to its natural 
position in the course of a single night. The leaves of 
all plants also have an upper and under surface which 
never vary. Twist a branch so as to invert its leaves, 
and fix it in that position, if left in any degree loose, it 
will gradually untwist itself until its leaves regain their 
natural position. What more could an animal do under 
similar circumstances ? A root of a tree meeting with a 
ditch in its progress is laid open to the air, — what 
follows ? It alters its course like a rational being, dips 
into the ground, finds its way under the ditch, and rises 
on the opposite side to its wonted distance from the 
surface, and then proceeds in its original direction. 

This comparison between plants and animals might 
be carried much further ; but, however interesting in 
itself, it would have but little bearing upon the subjects 
we have to consider. The following must therefore 
suffice for the present. There are powers in every 
animal to struggle for health by expelling diseases. All 
that a surgeon can do in the case of a broken bone, is 
to restore it to its natural position. It is Nature that 
performs the cure by pouring into the broken part a 
liquid matter, which hardening into bone, unites the 
parts firmly together. The plant possesses similar powers* 
A wound in a tree is cured like a wound in an animal ; 
the separated parts unite, a gum-like substance sur- 
rounds the wound, and after a time that part becom<S8 
covered with bark as before. If part of a branch or 
root be cut off, the want is supplied by a number of 
small shoots issuing from the place where the cut was 
made. 

As plants doubtlessly were originally created of many 
species, each species has powers peculiar to itself, by 



14 . SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY* 

which the diflFerent species are kept distinct ; and by thi^ 
means uniformity is preserved amongst individual plants 
of the same species. These powers, variously modified 
in every different species, are exerted in the propagation 
of new plants with leaves, flowers, seed, &c. peculiar to 
each species. And as a perfect agreement between the in- 
ternal and external frame of plants, as well as of animals, 
is undoubtedly the plan of Nature, it may be taken for 
granted, that each external part contributes to the well- 
being of the plant, and that any alteration would be 
injurious. 

Passing over the subject of propagation, as not having 
any particular bearing upon agricultural pursuits, let us 
now proceed to consider, — 

The Food of Plants. — There is perhaps no branch 
of natural philosophy in which imagination and conjec- 
ture are more apt to freely indulge than in that which 
treats of the food of plants. Scientific men have, at one 
time or another, propounded various theories upon the 
subject ; and provided they can invest them with a plau- 
sible exterior, they do not deem it necessary to submit 
them to the rigid test of facts and experiments. No ! 
that would be too troublesome and perhaps inconvenient, 
seeing the touchstone of experiment might lead to 
results at variance with the theory, and then would a 
large amount of imagination be " cut to waste.**' Each 
theory-monger of this class, therefore, 

" Erects a shrine and idol of his own. 
Some leaden calf " 

and modestly calls upon thinking men to fall down and 
worship as a fact, that which, upon examination, turns 
out to be nothing more than an ingenious fallacy. One 



THE HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 15 

of the latest of these xnistaken theories I met with a 
short time ago thus gravely set forth : " Oil and salt are 
found in all plants ; — ergo^ oil and salt in the soil is the 
proper nutriment of plants ; — ergo^ oil and salt is the 
best manure to promote vegetable produce.** To show 
the absurdity of this reasoning, let us push the matter a 
little further, and say, — As blood is found in all animals, 
and as a cow is an animal, ergo, blood is the best food 
for a cow. Absurd as this theory must appear to every 
thinking man, not a few have been led astray by it, >and 
among the number the late Dr. Hunter, of York, who 
was so completely convinced in his own mind of its 
correctness, that he absolutely proposed to bring out a 
manure composed of oil and salt, and which was intended 
to be called the " Oil Compost.*^ The Doctor did not 
remember that neither oil nor salt could be taken up by 
plants in their crude state, and that when mixed, one 
would assist the other in resisting decomposition. 

Passing over other theories equally absurd, I venture 
to lay before my readers, what I conceive to be, if not 
the true theory, still one that is based upon sound 
principles, and capable of being supported by rational 
arguments. From the observations I, have been enabled 
to make, I am induced to think that the following pro* 
positions may be regarded in the light of axioms : — 

1. All plants derive their support from certain juices 

and gases imbibed through their roots and leaves, 

2. These juices and gases are, by an internal process, 

converted into sap. 
8. This sap is in continual motion, ascending during 

the heat of the day, and descending during the 

cold of the night. 
4. The sap of all plants, like the blood of all animals, 



16 SCIEHTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

18 identical,* and it is by this sap that the life 

of plants is sustained. 
These propositions being admitted, it follows that 
every plant must be endowed with the powers necessary, 
first, to imbibe juices ; next, to convert the juices 
imbibed into sap ; and lastly, to convert that sap into 
its own substance. With respect to the two first powers, 
all plants appear to be similar ; the difference of species 
being carried on by the last power only, — that of con- 
verting the sap into the substance of the plant; and 
hence arise the peculiar texture, colour, smell, and 
taste in each species : and numerous experiments are on 
record which serve to prove that, however different the 
juices may be that are imbibed by plants, the sap into 
which these juices are converted is the same, or nearly 
the same, even in plants of different species. " Thus," 
observes the late Dr. Hunter, ^^ a mass of innocent earth 
can give life and vigour to the bitter aloe and to the 
sweet cane, to the cool house-leek and to the fiery 

* The sap of plants has heen found, by nnmerous experiments, to 
be nearly the same in whatever soil the plant may grow. Homberg 
filled a pot with earth mixed with saltpetre ; he also filled another pot 
with pure earth well washed. The cresses that grew in these pots were 
precisely of the same nature, equally alkalescent ; what grew in the 
first pot was as little acid as what grew in the second. In other two pots 
prepared in the same manner, he planted fennel, an acid plant : the 
difference of the earth made no difference in the two plants. If we 
can judge of sap from what it exudes from the plant, it is nearly the 
same in different species. Dr. Hales collected the liquor exuded from 
trees of different kinds : it was very clear, and its specific gravity was 
nearly the same as that of common water, and no difference of taste 
could be perceived in the different liquors. And although plants are 
distributed by nature into classes distinguishable by light, no class 
could be preserved distinct, if the juices imbibed by it had any influ- 
•aoe to vary its nature. 



TfiB HABIl^ AKD FOOD OF PLANTS. 17 

mustard) to the nouri^ing wheat and to the d^dly 
nightshade.^ In what manner or by what means these 
changes are produced will, in all likelihood, for ever 
remain a mystery: they depend on energies impenetrable 
by the human eye, and, as yet, beyond the reach of 
experiment. It is the province of agriculture to cultivate 
isoils in such manner as to furnish the juices mentioned 
in plenty ; the rest may with safety be left to Nature, 
who never errs in her operations. Before the farmer, 
however, can be placed in a position to supply the 
soil with those ingredients best adapted for producing 
the juices before spoken of, it is essentially necessary 
he should know of what those juices are composed. 

Here chemical analysis comes to his aid. From it we 
learn that all plants contain two different classes of 
matter, the one combustible, and the other incombus- 
tible. Their combustible portion is chiefly, but not 
entirely, derived from the atmosphere, and consists of 
carbonic acid, water, and ammonia ; the incombustible 
portion, that is, the portion left as ash after burning, 
is composed of phosphoric acid, potash, silicic and 
sulphuric acids, lime, magnesia, iron,x and chloride of 
sodium (common salt) ; the former being termed the 
organic,* and the latter the inorganic constituents of 
plants.. These, then, in their respective proper pro- 

* " Organic chemical compounds are such as enter into the construc- 
tion of the different organs of plants and animals, as well as such 
substances as are produced during the living action of these organs/' — 
(Chambebs^S Chem., p. 266.) The foregoing are chiefly derived from the 
air, and are composed of oxygen, hydrogen, cwrhon, and nitrogen ; and 
some also contain plu>8pharus and sulphur. The inorganic substances 
weMme, magnesia, silica, potash, common salt, soda, phosphoric add, and 
sy^phwric add. These, or nearly all of them, are derived from the soil, 

C 



18 BCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

portions, form the food of all plants. Would you se^ 
bow greatly the organic exceed the inorganic constituents 
of plants,, take an oak, — ^the pride of England, her 
safeguard and defence, and cut down the noble tree; 
it will be found to contain several tons of wood* 
To ascertain what portions it has derived from the 
atmosphere, and what from the soil, set fire to it,— r 
burn it up, and you will find, for every 100 lbs. weight, 
there will be about 3^ lbs. of ash left. That portion, 
consisting of the chemical compounds, is re-dissolved 
into the atmosphere, from which it was derived ; and the 
other, the ash left, is what it has taken from the soil ; the 
former being its organic, and the latter its inorganic 
constituents. Yet, insignificant as these inorganic con- 
stituents may appear, they are absolutely necessary to 
the full development of plants, and hence they form an 
important part of their food. We will therefore, before 
proceeding further, consider the nature of each of these 
respective substances. This is necessary, inasmuch as if 
one, even to all appearance the most unimportant, be 
absent, though all the rest, in their proper proportions, 
be present, it is impossible that the plant can be produced 
in perfection. As the organic so greatly exceed in 
proportion the inorganic constituents of plants, they 
demand our first attention ; and one of the most important 
of these is — 

CARBONIC ACID. 

Carbonic acid is a chemical combination^ of carbon 
and oxygen, and, though absolutely necessary to the 

*** It is essential to understand clearly the distinction between a 
chemical combination and a mechanical mixture. For a lucid explaoa- 
iioa off thia difference see Appendix A. 



THE HABITS ANp FOOD OF PLANTS. 19 

growth of plants, is in itself a narcotic poison, and, when 
inhaled, produces stupor, insensibility, and death. In 
the coal-mines of England, it generally goes by the name 
of choke-dampf and, owing to its being much heavier 
than common atmospheric air^ it is frequently found at 
the bottom of old wells, brewers' vats, cellars, &c., and 
has frequently proved fatal to persons who have in- 
cautiously descended into such places. We find it in 
its most familiar form in the sparkling bubbles which 
arise on uncorking a bottle of soda-water, and in those 
which escape in the fermentation of beer. It is one of 
the products of respiration, the air which we breathe 
out of our lungs being strongly charged with carbonic 
acid. It is largely found when charcoal is burned ; and 
this will explain the fatal effects arising from burning 
charcoal in a close room. Carbonic acid forms about 
one half the weight of common limestone, and is driven 
off by heat in the process of lime-burning ; and so feeble 
is its union with alkalies, that any other acid, even 
vinegar, will drive it away and take its place. But my 
object is not so much to explain what carbonic acid is, 
as to point out its effect in promoting the growth of 
plants, and showing in what manner it is taken up and 
appropriated by them. In the first place, carbonic acid 
gas is the source from whence plants derive at least one 
half of their dry bulk. I have already stated that 
carbonic acid forms a large portion of the breath exhaled 
from the lungs in the process of respiration. In this 
particular the animal and vegetable economy is directly 
opposed, the former appropriating the oxygen in the 
atmosphere, the latter the carbon. Without going fully 
into this subject, it will be sufiicient to state that the 
blood, in passing from the heart to the extremities, in its 

c 2 



20 .8CIEXT1F1C FARMING MADE BA8Y. ^ 

course to solidification, becomes charged with noxious 
humours and other impurities ; in this state it is returned 
by the veins to the lungs, where, meeting with th^ 
health^giving oxygen in the air inspired, the poisonouB 
carbonic acid is expelled, and the blood, in a purified 
state, is again presented to the heart, and, by the con^ 
tractile power of that organ, is again forced through the 
arteries in support of the animal structure.* In the 
case of plants, the action is different Every bud, as 
well as every seed, contains the embryo of a future plaiit; 
and these, under the influence of heat and moisture, send 
forth shoots ; in the latter case, the seed sends forth a 
rootlet, which takes a downward course ; and also, at the 
same time, one or two seed-leaves are produced, which 
take an upward direction. The food necessary for sus- 
taining these leaves may be said to have been already 
formed in the seed, while the rootlets themselves imbibe 
carbonic acid from the soil in a state of solution, at the 
same time that the seed-leaf is imbibing it from the 
atmosphere. The carbonic acid so imbibed assists in 
forming, if it does not altogether form, the stem. The 
stem again, in the course of its growth, puts forth other 
leaves, all of which are furnished with myriads of little 
mouths or suckers, which absorb more carbonic acid; 
while the roots, as they extend, also imbibe more of the 
same material in the water they suck up ; and thus the 
plant progresses towards maturity. This carbonic acid 
imbibed by the roots and leaves, under the influence of 
heat and light becomes decomposed ; during this decom- 
position, the oxygen is liberated, escapes through the 



* All who wish to be farther informed upon this interesting subject^ 
ftre I'ecommended to consult Johnston's Life, Health, cmd Disease, 



TUB HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 21 



hiimerous pores in the leaves, while the carbonic acid 
beconies solidified, and forms a part of the plant. Thus 
it will be seen that while animals inhale oxygen, which 
unites with a portion of the carbon in the blood, and 
keeps up the temperature necessary to health, it at the 
same time expels the poisonous carbonic acid gas con-^ 
tained in it, and thus renders it fit for the further 
building-up of the animal frame. On the other hand^ 
plants inhale carbonic acid, which, under the influence 
of light and h^t, becomes decomposed and solidified, 
and thus builds up the structure of the plant, while the 
oxygen is set free, and escapes through the pores and 
leaves. 

I have already stated that carbonic acid is a chemical 
combination of carbon and oxygen ; this latter gas mayj 
with great propriety, be called *^ the sour-maker,'' seeing 
that no acid can be formed without its aid ; while 
carbon is nothing more than pure charcoal ; and the 
diamond, in fact, is nothing but pure charcoal in a 
crystallized state. To most of us carbon is more com- 
monly known as ^ woody fibre," and, exclusive of water, 
forms about one half of the food consumed by both man 
and beast. Having now seen the use of carbonic acid 
in promoting vegetation, we will proceed to consider— 



'. THE CONSTITUENTS OF WATER. 

Common as water is to all of us, there is no fluid that 
difibrs more widely- in its constituents, two samples being 
rarely found' alike; ' Pure water is composed of two 
gases, oxygen and hydrogen, in a state of chemical com- 
bination ; i. e,y supposing the^ two ga^es were collected 



22 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 



• 



in their proper proportions* in a glass globe, they would 
mix, but not combine ; but if a stream of electricity be 
brought to bear upon them, they mutually decompose 
and form water. Singular as it may appear, water, 
which is most effectual in extinguishing fire, is formed 
of two gases, one of them in the highest degree inflam- 
mable, and the other the most powerful supporter of 
combustion known* In agriculture, the most important 
property of water is the power it possesses of dissolving 
solid substances, which, but for its influence, would 
remain inert in the soil ; but these substances, bdng 
dissolved by the agency of water, are presented to the 
roots of plants in the only form in which they cari be 
absorbed ; and thus, whatever fertilizing properties the 
soil may contain, are rendered available for the purposes 
of vegetation. Another important property possessed 
by water is the facility with which it rises in vapour and 
commingles with the atmosphere ; but for this property, 
a great portion of our crops, particularly upon dry sandy 
soils, would be burnt up in very dry seasons. But, as 
if to compensate for this, the warmer the weather the 
greater is the amount of moisture contained in the 
atmosphere.-f- The atmosphere in this country is never 

— I — ■ ■ , ■ ■ ■ ' ■ — ' — ■ — ^ 

* Eight pounds of oxygen combined with one pound of hydrogen, 
form nine pounds of water. 

f The following table is extracted from Sibson's AgricvUvrdl 
Chemistry^ a book which every farmer who is desirous of studying th* 
science of Arming cannot do better than consult. 

Water in 1 00 parts of Air. Parts of Water. 

At 80 degrees of thermometer '41 

I, 60 „ „ -80 

„ 80 „ „ 2-01 

„ 90 „ „ 2-70 

u 100 „ „ 8-60 



THE HABITS AKD FOOD OF PLAKTS. 23 

ISO dry but plants can t)btain moisture from it ^ and there 
are many substances of so deliquescent a nature as to 
absorb moisture from the driest atmosphere. Among 
these, potash, soda, salt, and other chemical compounds 
\trhich afford food for plants, are of this character ; and 
if we bear in mind that the whole of out root and green 
crops contain from BO to 90 per cent, of their whole 
weight of water, the value of it, both in the soil and 
a^osphere, will be at once apparent. Another property 
of water is, that, being composed of oxygen and hydrogen, 
it yields these gases to the growing plant, and thus 
assists in forming numerous compounds which enter 
into their structure. For instance, hydrogen and nitrogen 
form ammonia; and so great is the affinity of water for 
smmoniacal gas, that it will absorb from six to seven 
hundred times its bulk of that valuable stimulant to 
vegetation ; and, but for this affinity, the nitrogen con- 
tained in the atmosphere would, so far as vegetation is 
,concemed, remain perfectly useless. Another very valu- 
able property of water is, that, like other bodies, it 
expands by heat and contracts by cold; but, unlike 
other bodies, after it has been cooled to a certain point 
[40°), it again expands* While freezing, water expands 
very much, bursting the strongest vessels in which it 
may be contained ; and it is in this way that the hardest 
rocks are gradually crumbled down into soil fit for 
Vegetable life ; and it is in this way, also, that it acts in 
{nrumbling down stiff clay soils : the moisture, which has 
penetrated into the smallest crevices during summer, 
freezes during winter, and, by its expansive force, breaks 
up the solid mass. Hence is it that strong clays are so 
much benefitted by being left rough-ploughed to the 
action of the frost ; and hence is it that wheat is so often 



24 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE SAST.^ 

thrown out of the soil. Water is 815 times heavier than 
air; a cubic foot of water, at the temperature of 6W, 
weighs 1 ,000 oz, (avoirdupois) ; or, in other words^ sinc^ 
a gallon of water weighs 10 lbs.,-— 

" A pint of pure water 
Weighs a pound and a quarter,** 

AMMONIA, AND ITS PROPERTIES. 

Ammonia is formed by the chemical combination pf 
the two gases hydrogen and nitrogen, i.e., 14 lbs. oi 
nitrogen and 3 lbs. of hydrogen make 17 lbs, of amm> 
nia. It exists in considerable quantities in fermentiig 
dung, and has been detected in minute proportions h 
rain-water;* but the most prolific source from whica 
ammonia is obtained at the present time, is from the 
distillation of coal in the manufacture of gas ; and it is 
from this source, almost wholly, that most of the salts oi 
ammonia met with in commerce are now obtained. This 
subject will be noticed at length under the bead oi 
" Gas-refuse.'* The following are the constituents of the 
chief salts of ammonia : — 

Acid. Ammonia. Water. 

Sulphate 54*66 14-24 31*10 '\ parts 

Carbonate .. 45-00 48*00 12*00 I in 

Muriate 49-65 31*95 1850 i 100. 

* Liebig has asserted that every pint of rain-water contains one 
quarter of a grain of ammonia ; bat until I have cori'oborative evid«Bcd 
of this &ot, I must take leave to doubt its accuracy, seeing that the 
latest experiments of Boussingault go to show that the largest qnan* 
tity of ammonia present in rain-water is only 1 grain to 33 gallons i 
and even in pump-water, contaminated by animal impurities, not more 
than 1 grain to 2 gallons could be detected, which Is only one-sixteenth 
part of a gnun to the pint. Another of Boussingault's experimenta 
givei 1 grain to eveiy 5 gallons of rain-wa^er ; and thiq is oorroboi 



THE' HABITS AKD FOOD OF FC.AFT8. 23 

' As the offiees of ammonia in^ promoting vegetation are 
in the highest degree important (as will presently be 
seen) ; and as it ia, even in the cheapest of its salts, an 
expensive article to purchase, it is most essential to the 
interest of every farmer to know how he may obtain the 
greatest amount of it from his own farm-stead. Valuable 
as this commodity is, there is nothing which is more 
recklessly wasted. It is wasted in our stables,^ pig* 
sties, cowsheds, and crew-yards ; in our ditches, drains, 
and dufigheaps ; in short, it may be said to be wasted 
almost on every hand, simply because a great majority of 
our fEirtners are either too ignorant, too prejudiced, too 
apathetic, or too indolent to adopt the very simple means 
requisite to preserve it. 

Who, we may ask, has not had his sense of smell 
affected, and felt his eyes water, on entering a stable in 
ta morning, after it has been closely shut up all night ? 
-That pungent smell arises solely from the carbonate of 
ammonia escaping from the urine voided by the horsea 
during the night, every 1,000 lbs. of which contaiq, 
16 Ibi^ q{ pure ammonia, or If lb. more than is contained 
in 1 cwt. of sulphate of ammonia, worth from 15s. to IGs^ 
Now see by what a simple and inexpensive contrivance this 
might all be saved : 1 cwt. of sulphate of iron (common 
green cc^perai^), which can be bought for about 5^. (the 
whdtesale price being only 4^.), is sufiioient to mix with 100 
gallons of water, and this, when thoroughly dissolved, is 
sufficient tomoisten from three to four cartloads of sawdust; 
All that is then required, is to sprinkle the preparation 



rat^d byM. Marten id the Ann, de Chimiey 1856. But, from the great 
fli gd rep a ii c ieg "existing among the statements of various authors on this 
Bubject, but little dependence can be placed on any 6f them.. . . . 



26 BGIENTIFIC FARMING MADE BAST. 

freely (say one-eighth of an inch thick) upon the 
floors of the stable or cowshed^ and not only will the 
ammonia, which would otherwise escape, be absorbed, 
but the whole oi the buildings will be sweetened, and 
the cattle preserved from many disorders, — lung diseases 
and blindness among the number. What is true of 
stables and cowhouses, applies equally to pigsties, crew- 
yards, and dungheaps ; from all of which the escape of 
ammonia is immense. The ammonia contained in urine 
as voided by cattle, being chiefly in the form of a highly 
volatile gas (carbonate of ammonia), the efiect of the 
sawdust moistened as before mentioned, is to attract it, 
and convert it into sulphate of ammonia, a non-volatile 
salt. Nor does the advantage of this process rest here ; 
it gives to the farmer an extra quantity of most valuable 
manure, which, on mixing, renders that in the crew-yard 
and dungheap more valuable still, by assisting the 
process of fermentation and fixing a number of poison- 
ous gases, alike ofiensive to the sense of smell and in-^ 
jurious to health* 

It is a lamentable fact, but it is no less true, that even 
at the present day a very large proportion of our farmers 
have an aflectionate prejudice in favour of a stink ; they 
really fancy that the more manure stinks, the stronger 
it must be ; when the very reverse is the fact. The 
stench arising from manure is generally attributable to 
one of two causes, or, more frequently, to both at the 
same time; viz., the escape of either carbonate of am^ 
monia, or of sulphuretted hydrogen, both valuable for 
their fertilizing properties, and both of them injurious 
and even poisonous to animal health and life: for the 
blood must inevitably be vitiated by the frequent inha- 
lation of noxious gases. 



THE HABITS AKD POOD OF l»LAKTB« 27 

It is certainly difficult to put down the pecuniary cost 
of a stink; but if a farmer will take the value of 
one^half of the food, the loss of his cattle, the amount 
of his farrier^s bill, and to these add the cost of " medi- 
cine and attendance,^^ rendered necessary by the sickness 
of himself, his wife, and his family, and divide the gross 
amount by two, after adding about 25 per cent, for loss of 
time and labour, he will arrive at something like the cost 
of this most expensive but fondly-cherished fallacy. So 
far as his loss by the escape of ammonia is concerned, 
he may be enabled to form some notion of it by the 
following simple experiment. Let him purchase an ounce 
of carbonate of ammonia, which he may do of any 
druggist for about 2d., and place it upon a plate before 
his fire: if it be pure, it will all evaporate in ten or fifteen 
minutes. Now this carbonate of ammonia upon the 
plate is identical with the chief part of that produced 
in his dungheap by fermentation, as well as that in- 
the urine voided by his cattle. 

As I shall have occasion to notice this subject in a 
future chapter, we will now proceed to consider the 
functions of ammonia, not only in promoting the 
growth of plants, but in adding to their value when 
grown. 

Plants take up their ammonia precisely in the same 
Way that they absorb carbonic acid and water, i.e. partly 
through their roots, and partly through their leaves; but 
by far the greater portion of ammonia found in plants is 
taken up by their roots. That some portion of it is 
taken up by their leaves, we have abundant proof; 
seeing that if a little carbonate of ammonia (common 
smelling salts) be put into a saucer and placed near 
growing plants, they speedily assume a greener and 



38 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

more healthy appearance.^ But the quantity of aminohia 
taken from the atmosphere is far from being sufficient 
for the full development of cultivated plants, and as 
many of them are grown upon poor thin soil, containing 
little or no decayed vegetable matter, it is necessary that 
it should be supplied to the plant in the form of 
tnanure ; and as ammonia is an essential constituent in 
guano, soot, nitrate of soda, and other artificial manureF, 
this \yill account for their beneficial efi^ect when applied 
as a top-dressing. But, it may be asked, how it occurs 
that, with the great abundance of nitrogen contained in 
the air, plants cannot receive a sufiicient supply of it 
from that source, seeing that the atmosphere is composed 
of 79 parts of nitrogen mixed (not combined) with 21 
parts of oxygen, and that this nitrogen is the basis of 
ammonia ? True, and at first sight it would appear that 
there was a greater danger of plants being drowned 
than starved in it : this, however, is not so. The grain 
crops we cultivate (and, as we shall see presently, it is by 
them that the greatest amount of ammonia is required) 
cannot, of themselves, extract a single particle of nitrogen 
from the atmosphere for their own immediate use. 

Boussingault informs us that this privilege is 
enjoyed only by a very few of our cultivated plants; 
such as clover, pease, beans, and probably mangolds, 
turnips, and potatoes. But, as before observed, our 

grain crops must receive their ammonia from the soil, or 

■ III . II I . . I I • 1 ^ I , 

* Some plants, particularly tboee of the balsamic class, are pecu-, 
liarly susceptible to the influence of ammonia. Some time since, having 
accidentally spilt some acid upon a new coat, I proceeded to neutralize 
its effects by the application of caustic ammonia. I incautiously placed 
the sponge I used too near a &vourite balsam, and left it there. On 
my retnzD* aa hour after, I f((>and the balsam was dead. 



TtLE HABITd AKt) F0<0£> OP PIAKYS. 2§ 

tiot at all ; and it is, therefore, absolutely necessary that 
Ihe soil intended for the growth of these crops should 
be strongly charged with this important fertilizing 
ingredient ; I say strongly charged^ inasmuch -as ex« 
perience has proved that it is not sufficient to put even 
double the quantity of aiiimonia into the soil which the 
plant is found to yield on analysis. That this doctrine 
is shared by Mr. Lawes, we find from a statement made 
by him some years ago, wherein he states it as his opinion : 
'* That every bushel of wheat, containing in itself 
nbout 1 lb. of nitrogen, requires 5 lbs. of ammonia for 
its production, instead of IJ lb., which would be equal 
lo 1 lb. of nitrogen.*^ From this it is clearly manifest 
that the wheat crop not only appropriates but absolutely 
wastes a large portion of ammonia during its growth. 
This I am not able to account for ; but, as before observed, 
experience has proved it to be the case ; and this fact, at 
all events, fully accounts for the exhaustive efiFect on 
the soil produced by wheat crops. " The gross weight of 
Vegetable produce,** ' says Mr. Acland, " raised on an 
acre of good land, managed on the * four-course * system, 
will be, in the course of four years, about 40 tons, in 
round numbers, of which about four-fifths will be water ; 
leaving in round numbers about 19,000 lbs., or say, 
8 tons of organic matter, and about 1,300 lbs. of inor<^ 
ganic matter, or ashes, which would be left, if all the crops 
ef the four seasons were burnt.*" ..." The organic 
matter, — that which is capable of being burnt away, of 
which carbon and nitrogen are the two principal parts, 
as they were united with the elements of water in car- 
bonic acid and ammonia ** (and in those forms imbibed 
by the plant)—'* the four years' crop will be found to 
contain about 9^000 lbs. of carbon, and about 3 cwtl of 



3Q SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE. EASY,^ 

nitrogen. The carbon is about equally divided between 
the corn crops and the green crops, but the nitrogen ia 
divided in proportion of 1 cwt. to the corn crops and 
S cwt, to the roots and grass."" — Meat, Milky and 
Wheat, p. 34 * 

How Ammonia adds to the value of Plants. — The 
value of all plants cultivated for the food of man depends 
upon the amount of nourishment they contain, and the 
power they possess of building up and sustaining the 
animal structure. For this purpose two important 
agencies are required ; viz., flesh-forming and fat-forming 
properties ; the former being termed by chemists '* the 
elements of nutrition," and the latter " the elements of 
respiration." Though immaterial to our purpose, it may 
be useful to know the various names of these flesh-* 
forming constituents separately, although, by whatever 
name they may be called, they are one and all precisely 
the same, whether they appear as albumen, gluten, 
caseine, vegetable fibrine, or legumine. 

Albumen occurs nearly pure in the white of an egg ; 
it is also largely found in the blood, the humours of the 
eye, the flesh of animals, and in oily seeds. It coagu-* 
lates when mixed with most acids, and many metallic 
salts. Hence white of egg is given in cases of poisoning 
with copperas or arsenic. 

Fibrine is found soluble in the living blood, but 
after death, or separation from the living body, it spon- 
taneously coagulates into fibres which are insoluble in 
water. It also occurs in lean flesh or muscular fibre, 
from which it derives its name. 

Gluten, or Vegetable Fibrine, is tasteless and odour- 

* Thii treatise of Mr. Acland's every fanner ought to possess. 



TH£ HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 31 

less, hardens on drying into a horn-like mass ; it is a 
tough, adhesive, glue-like substance : hence its name, 

Caseine is the curd of milk, and derives its name 
from the Latin casetiSy cheese^ of which substance it is 
the chief constituent. 

Legumine is found in most plants, but chiefly in pease, 
beans, and other seeds of a similar kind. 

The whole of these, as I have before observed, are all 
nitrogenous or flesh-forming constituents. 

" If," observes Professor Playfair, in one of his lectures, 
<^ water be poured on fine flour, in a sieve, and stirred 
about, a milky fluid will percolate into the basin below; on 
adding more water, the liquid will, after a time, pass 
through quite clear ; on the sieve will be seen a glue* 
like substance, called gluten^ while at the bottom of 
the basin will be found white granulated particles, called 
starch. . . Chemists," continues the learned professor, 
" were surprised to discover that this body never varies 
in its composition. It is the same in com, beans, or 
from whatever plant it is extracted, and, still more 
strange, though in outward appearance they seem to 
difier so much, this gluten we have on the sieve is one 
and the same thing as the muscle of my arm, as dried 
blood, or the flesh of the ox : so we eat the flesh ready 
formed in our food. This is a very wise arrangement of 
nature* The vitality of plants is not required to execute 
the commands of the will, and therefore its whole 
powers are employed in creating new compounds ; but 
in animals the vital principle has many duties to perform, 
assigned to it by the will: the powers are therefore 
husbanded to this end. All that the vitality in the 
animal economy has to perform, connected with nutrition, 
is to assign a place and form to the food, which is already 



32 • l&CIEKTIFIC FARMING MABE SASY.^ 

of the proper composition.^ The bearing of this upon 
what I have before advanced will at once be perceived^ 
when we remember that the two substances just 
mentioned, viz., the gluten on the sieve and the starch 
at the bottom of the basin, perform two totally different 
functions in our bodies. In their chemical composition 
they also differ ; seeing that the gluten contains carbon 
and oxygen, with nitrogen^ while the starch contains 
carbon and oxygen, but not one particle of nitrogen: 
Therefore, it is to the presence of nitrogen that every 
description of food owes its flesh-forming properties: 
And further, as plants have no power of absorbing 
nitrogen, per se, but only in the shape of ammonia, it 
becomes clear that not only do plants require ammonia 
to stimulate their growth, but that its presence adds to 
their value when grown. 

To illustrate this fact more clearly, and- in. order to 
show the extent to which it is capable of improving the 
quality of wheat crops, it will be sufficient to quote the 
following experiments: — One hundred parts of wheat 
grown without manure, yielded gluten to the extent of 
9*2 per cent., and starch 67'7 per cent. ; but from 100 
parts of the same variety of wheat manured with animal 
urine, were obtained as much as 35*1 per cent, of gluten, 
and but 39*3 per cent, of starch ; that is to say, the 
manure had given to the wheat four times as much of 
the nutritious element, and, as food for man, had con* 
sequently rendered it four times more valuable. — (JoHKt 
STONES Lectures^ p. 103.) The same argument applies 
equally to grass and fodder crops : the richer these are in 
nitrogen, the more beneficial their effects. A cow, for 
instance, fed upon highly-nitrogenized food, will give a 
larger amount of milk, and of better quality for pro« 



THE HABITS AND FOOD OF PLAHTS. 33 

ducing cheese and butter» than one badly fed ; and it is 
a well-ascertained fact that two hoi*ses fed upon highly- 
nutritious food will perform a greater amount of labour 
than three kept upon food deficient of nitrogen; this 
important question will be more fully treated in that part 
of our work devoted to cattle-feeding. 



WHAT PLANTS DERIVE FROM CARBON. 

Having now noticed the flesh^forming constituents of 
plants, let us proceed a step further, and consider their 
fat-forming constituents, which may be said to consist 
of starch, gum, sugar, woody fibre or lignine, fats, oils, 
and resins. They all consist of carbon and the elements 
of water. 

Starch is abundantly found in all plants, and is 
obtained from their seeds or fruit, as wheat-starch or 
rice-starch ; from their roots or underground stems, as 
potato-starch, tapioca, and arrowroot ; and from the pith 
of certain trees, as sago, &c. 

Gum is the natural exudation of certain trees ; but 
a similar substance, called " dextrine," may be formed 
from starch by the action of sulphuric acid ; and many 
of our ordinary gums are now being replaced by this 
materiaL 

Sugar is the name for any sweet substance, whether 
derived from plants or animals. Cane^ or ordinary 
Bugar^ is produced from the sugar-cane, beet-root, sugar- 
maple, &c.; grape^ugar is the sugar of fruits, and is 
also prepared from honey and starch ; milk-sugar is 
obtained from evaporating and crystallizing whey ; 
glycerine is obtained from oil, and differs from the pre- 
ceding in not yielding alcohol on fermentation. 

D 



34 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADS BASY. 

Liffnine9 or woody fibre, forms the structure of plants, 
and is found in nearly a pure state in fine linen and 
cotton. 

The whole of the foregoing being destitute of ni- 
trogen, as before observed, are not possessed, properly 
speaking, of nourishing properties, and are therefore 
called "the elements of respiration." They supply 
animal bodies with heat : the carbon they contain, 
meeting and uniting with oxygen in the process of 
respiration, combustion results ; thus, they may be said 
to be literally burnt in our bodies ; and by this means 
animal heat is sustained. In this respect these fat- 
forming properties of plants are not only useful but 
necessary in building up and perfecting the animal 
structure, and keeping the flesh formed by the nitroge- 
nous portion of the food taken, in that state of tempera- 
ture best fitted for supporting the greatest amount of 
strength and endurance; and when more of this non- 
nitrogenous food is taken than is required for this 
purpose, it is converted into fat. This part of the 
subject also will be more fully dealt with when we come 
to dscuss the question of cattle-feeding. 

Having now seen of what the organic constittients 
of plants are composed, and their uses, we will next 
proceed to notice another class of substances necessary 
for the food of plants ; viz., their mineral, or — 

Inorganic Consiittients, — The organic constituents of 
plants, it wiU be remembered, were stated to be composed 
of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen : these are 
combustible, and will bum away in the air, leaving 
nothing behind. The inorganic constituents are the 
reverse of all this, inasmuch as the inorganic portion of 
plants consists of mineral substances only, which will 



THB HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 35 

not bum away, but which form the residue or ash left 
after the organic portion is consumed. These are chiefly 
composed of potash, soda, lime, magnesia, phosphoric 
acid, &c.; and although these form but a very minute 
porticm of the whole bulk, they are equally important, 
seeing that no plant can be built up without them. 

It would be a waste of both time and space, so far 
as practical farming is concerned, to enter into an 
elaborate description of the whole of these inorganic 
constituents ; I shall therefore confine my observations 
to such of them as have been found to be of the greatest 
importance in manures, by reason of their frequent 
scarcity in cultivated soils. And these may be said to 
consist of phosphate of lime, potash, and common salt, 
the remainder being generally found sufficiently abundant 
in all soils of average fertilizing quality ; and even salt 
is often found in abundance, particularly in soils not far 
distant from the sea. But, before proceeding further, 
let us see how it is ascertained that these substances — 
viz. phosphoric acid, potash, and salt — ^are really present 
in plants. If for this purpose we take a stem of wheat, 
a swede, or mangold, and weigh out 100 grains, then put 
it into a common metal ladle upon a hot fire, and let 
it remain there till everything combustible is burnt away, 
we shall find a small quantity of ash left behind. Until 
very recently, chemists took but little notice of this ash, 
seeing that, in ordinary cases, it did not weigh more than 
2J per cent, of the whole bulk. But recent investiga- 
tions, and particularly those of Liebig, Lawes, and 
Gilbert, have proved that this ash is in the highest 
degree essential ; and how it is essential we shall presently 
show. Now this ash came from the soil alone, and, 
being incombustible, cannot, like its more volatile com- 

D 2 



36 SCIENTIFIC FARMING.MADE £AST. " 

panions, fly away in smoke, gas, or vapour; but, tipdn' 
being examined and subjected to the test of certain: 
chemical re-agents, it has been found to consist of the 
several mineral substances before named, and ■ without- 
Vhich it is impossible for plants to arrive at perfection. 

Without phosphoric acid, a plant could not produce 
seed, inasmuch as that acid enters largely into the com- 
position of all seeds ; and without it, the grain of wheat 
would possess no skin, as phosphoric acid is a necessary- 
constituent of bran, which contains a very considerable 
proportion of it. In short, there is no plant cultivated 
for the food of man in which phosphoric acid is not an 
important constituent ; while potash^ lime, salt, &c^ &c^ 
all enter to a greater or less extent into the structure of 
both plants and animals. We may add, too, that without 
phosphoric acid a man could have no bones, as phosphoric 
acid, combined with lime, forms the principal bulk of 
bone, and constitutes what is generally known as bone- 
earth. The following table will serve to show the re- 
spective amounts of the more important of the inorganic 
compounds, or fixed ingredients in the various crops 
therein named. It would have been an easy matter to 
extend the table, but that here given will, no doubt, be 
found sufficient for all practical purposes : — 



THE HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS. 



37 



73 
to 



•§.2 



CQ 






-a 






o 



OQ 

o 






udc40)»^oo<:oeo-^koc^oop-i 



a to <N !» •<« O r-l f-H 04 



O CO rH -^ 0& ^•t Ol 00 !>• "^ »ft O OS "«* eO CO . »-i 
rH rH f-H I— I a> •"• 

•OOOr-«0©t>»C^'*Or-ir-iOr-«0>rH 
£ »0 i-H CO rH H 



OOi-HtOOOGOOOO'<4tC^COOt»OC<ieOOOrH 



JB'iH Of->Clf-lOOOOIrH'*t>-M©»H 



**C^ 



>0'*ei'^o»'^c><osei»ocoa^oo©'*«o© 



^a0CO^9)i-l©O»rHCO©QOOSCDUd'«»^eO 



OOSi-HOf-iQOt<*IO'*4i'^'--iOOOOQOO©000 



»H©'^i-jfH©«o©«©<0'^co'^eoi>.»H 



,3 -«>o>3N> -*«• ••* HwH^esH-HO* 

OOOCOI>»OOOCOr-lCOCOf-iUd(NrH»Q<«^CqO) 



SOI»0 99 r-«©0OOO 
a rH T-H 



©0000«<0©i-lO0000?H?Hr^ 
rH "^ f-H «0 



0«0 f-l QO 



^vj'oto 



HO* wrt" esH- 

09 cS <0 <N rH Ud Ud 00 00 rH C& C4 

^^ <N t* rH r-t rH r-t 









"looto-^eoososTHCooooiHO^t^ooMi^ 

a f-tOO CO <D "* CO rH 



OQ 



1- 



bo OQ 



^ a ^ d J J 

&&I El I 



IS 






© " o 



-d 




e 




ee 




••» 




00 




S. 




s 




-H 




• pN 




o 




>• 




ce 




-3 




a 




9 




s. 




a 




• pN 




3 




^ 




to 




© 




^ 




o 




^ 




•«^ 




12 




« 




00 




a 




•»^ 


• 




O) 


o 




■+» 


§ 


© 

1 


9« 


• F^ 




> 


:>k 


-d 


^ 


ee 


OS 




c 


•*» 




• ^4 


13 


•*« 


u 


*a 


O 


bo 


u 





tS 


o 


(*H 


,£3 


o 


•«^ 


ca 


^ 


•—3 


flS 


•«^ 


»a 


y 


M 


•s 


rf' 


sa 


a 


9 


o 


CQ 


•^4 




>> 


a> 








0) 


n 


a 


H 




•s 

-d 




««-i 





o 




s 


^ 


p 


>* 






o 


•*» 


ua 


O 


■«■> 


C 


'd 


OQ 


•p4 




o 


-«a 


> 


O 


eS 


(3 


^ 


60 




P 


« 


O 




.P 



38 SCIENTIFIC FABMINQ MADE EASY. 

A mere superficial glance at the preceding table will 
be sufficient to show its bearing upon the subject under 
consideration, and will enable the practical farmer, by a 
judicious application of special artificial fertilizers, to 
return to the soil those substances which former crops 
may have removed in any remarkable degree from it, or 
to re-supply them, by mixijig with his ordinary manure 
when preparing his land for following crops. By way 
of illustration, let us suppose a farmer to be preparing 
his soil to receive a crop of swedes ; he will find that, to 
produce a good average crop (26 tons per acre, for in- 
stance), he will require an extra amount of salt, seeing 
that 25 tons of swedes will require at least 35 cwt. 1 qr. 
of that material alone ; and, as the crop could not be 
expected to take up all the salt applied, a dressing of 
2 tons per acre would not be an overdose ;^ because, if 
not present in sufficient quantity, it would be utterly 
impossible to secure a full crop. And so on, with every 
other description of produce; care should be always taken 
to supply the soil with a sufficient quantity of the ingre- 
dients it contains in its composition. Nor is this all a 
farmer requires to know upon this subject : he ought to 
know not only what his soil already contains, but also 
what ingredients the manure contains which he is about 
to apply, independently of special fertilizers. To assist 
him in this matter as far as may be, the following table 
has been appended, which cannot but prove useful, as it 
has an immediate bearing upon the one preceding it :— 

* This is supposing the soil to be entirely destitute of salt. 



THB HABIYa AJTD FOOD OF PLANTS. 



39 



PE4 

o 



o 



5 



1 r 

w o 



glO lA »0 OO 0» G4 



««) t^ ao ^ vH Q 
r-( ■<«« 94 



I I 



eo r-l o o 



OO t« "^ o 
rH rH « it« 

CO ^ 



I 



B-^ t* CO r-l O 

II II 



I I I 



^ I I I " I I I I I I 



oo o 



)0 rt O 



I- •* S "^ s 



00 






0»H O O 



S Oi oo 

rH ao 



0» Oi 



00 ao 

OO 
C4 



I I 



«0 



04 



1^ 

OQ 



S'<« 00 00 eo 

I I . I 



|r-l CI 



CO ""^ 



O 00 
00 






!r-l 09 



I I 



o o o 



©4 04 ■«* 
O 04 ^ 

eo 



CO 



OQ 

H 
P8 



a 



to 

§ 



3 S ^ _Q S 



^ -^ S 

P^ ^ Rh 



e 

8> 



d 
o 



a : 

o 

o 

P4 



CO 



oo 



I i I 



I I 



OO 



I I I 



'S 

o 

a 

° I 



a 

Gl, >4 



fa 

is 

to 43 



40 fiCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE SAST. 

With these tables before him, the farmer may easily 
ascertain the amount of any particular ingredient 
removed from the soil by any particular crop, by a 
reference to the former, as well as the amount of any 
particular manure that is required to restore the balance, 
by referring to the latter. 

The influence of different manures upon the chemical 
composition of the plant is much more considerable 
than farmers commonly believe. The following results, 
obtained by Hermstadt, from a series of experiments 
tried upon wheat, will be sufficient to demonstrate this 
fact. He sowed equal quantities of wheat upon the 
same ground, and manured them with equal weights of 
the different manures set forth below ; from 100 parts of 
each sample of grain produced, he obtained starch and 
gluten in the following proportions (Johnston^s LeO' 
turesy p. 103) : — 

Gluten. Starch. Prodnoe. 

Soil simple 9*2 66*7 3-folcL 

Manured -with potato haulm : 9*6 .65*94 5 „ 

„ „ cow-duDg 120 62-3 7 „ 

« „ pigeon-dung 12*2 63-2 9 „ 

„ „ horse-dung 13-7 61*64 10 ,,. 

,, „ goat-dung 3^*9 42*4 12 „ 

„ „ sheep-dung 82*9 42*8 12 „ 

„ dried night-soil .... 33*14 41*44 14 „ 

„ „ dried ox-blood 34*24 41*43 14 „ 

„ „ dried human urine . . 81*1 39'3 12 „ 

An examination of the foregoing table naturally leads 
to the conclusion that both dried ox-blood and dried 
night-soil form the best manure for wheat crops ; but it 
is by no means to be inferred that a continual repetition of 
these manures would always succeed in producing good 
Crops of wheat. I do not believe in specific manures 



I'HE HABITS AND FOOD OF PLANTS* 41 

producing continuously a succession of the same ot any 
other kind of crop. In my opinion, the soil requires a 
change of manures equally with a change of crops. I 
do not believe there is any manure that will bear constant 
repetition, other than that originally provided by Nature : 
i, e. decayed vegetable matter, or, what is essentially the 
same, well- fermented farmyard dung. That certain 
mineral compounds will act beneficially in restoring the 
balance of nature, when disturbed by the extraction of a 
large portion of any fixed ingredient, I do not doubt 
for a moment ; but I also believe that a continued repe- 
tition of these compounds would be worse than useless : 
they would be mischievous. To supply phosphoric acid, 
potash, or ammonia, where already abundant, would 
be nearly as absurd as to attempt to make a drunken 
man sober by giving him an extra dose of brandy-and- 
water ; and therefore I am clearly of opinion, that all that 
science can do is not to supersede Nature, but to assist 
her in maintaining that equilibrium which it is the 
tendency of the production of such crops as are not 
consumed on the land to disturb. 

The great cause of failure in the application of special 
fertilizers does not rest so much in the article itself as in 
the injudicious application of it. A soil possessing any 
one ingredient in excess is quite as likely, nay, more 
likely, to be unproductive, than if such ingredient were 
absent altogether. The rotation system of cropping, as 
now generally practised, has doubtlessly led to this 
theory of specific nourishment ; and in support of it, 
numerous arguments have been put forward. Among 
the number, it has been urged, that if all plants required 
the same food, the soil would be equally liable to 
exhaustion by a succession of different crops as by a 



42 SCIENTIFIC FARMINQ MADB EAST. 

repetition of the same crop. This argument, at the first 
blush, appears somewhat startling; but it must be borne 
in mind, that plants of different kinds, growing on the 
same spot, rob or starve each other, which could not be 
the case if every different plant drew from the soil a 
different kind of nourishment. Without pushing this 
argument further, I shall content myself by re-asserting 
what I have before advanced ; viz., that I do not believe 
there is any specific manure for plants apart from that of 
farmyard dung, — Le.^ no manure that could possibly 
supersede it, even though it could be manufactured at 
half the cost. This manure never fails on its own ac« 
count, though it is more or less valuable, accordingly as 
the cattle by which it is made have been well or ill fed* 
The stomach of the animal is Nature's own laboratory, 
and chemical changes are there effected in a manner far 
superior to those produced by human ingenuity. The 
application of farmyard dung alone will bear constant 
repetition, — the land never tires, never grows sick of it. 
Formed by the acid fermentation of vegetable matter of 
almost every description, it is by such process converted 
into one homogeneous substance, suitable for every soil, 
and fitted for the nourishment of every known plant. 
Were it otherwise. Nature would have proved herself a 
bungler, and vegetation would, if not altogether, at 
least partially, have ceased to exist. I will only make 
one more observation, before limited space compels me to 
close this part of my subject. Look at the vast forests 
and prairies of America, extending over thousands of 
miles, where neither spade, plough, nor axe has ever 
yet penetrated. They have lived, flourished, decayed, 
died, and rotted through countless ages, and yet they 



MAH0RE8. 43 

suffer no diminution, either in point of size, variety, or 
species. What but a natural nourishment common to 
all plants could have sustained them ? 



-•o^ 



CHAPTER III. 

MANURES. 

Peioe to the days of our illustrious countryman 
Sir Humphrey Davy, agriculture was simply a time- 
honoured, but crude practice ; and to him is the honour 
due of being the first to elevate it to the rank of a 
science. Since the benefits conferred by his discoveries, 
much has been done by other men of eminence to improve 
the practice of farming, and to explain its rationale. To 
the bishop of Llandaff, Lord Kaimes, Mr. Curwen, and 
otiier men of deep learning and scientific research, are 
we indebted for the rapid strides made in the progress 
of agriculture, and to the increased estimation and im« 
portance in which it is now held, notwithstanding the 
vast development of our commerce and manufactures; 
and the time is fast approaching when the whole country 
will probably concur in recognizing agriculture as th6 
real foundation of its strength, as well as a primary 
agent in promoting the welfare and happiness of the 
people* The last twenty years have done much to 
promote the application of science to farming ; and the 



44 SCIENTIFIC PARMrNG' MADE EASY. 

favourable spirit with which improvements thus origin 
nated have been generally received, has had the happy 
effect of greatly increasing our national prosperity. But 
it is to the influence of Liebig's " Agricultural Che- 
mistry,'' which first appeared in 1840, that we may 
attribute the complete revolution which has taken place 
in agricultural operations. The effect produced by Baron 
Liebig''s book has been well described by Mr. Thompson 
{Agric, Jour.^, No. 86) : — 

" In the year 1840, Baron Liebig first published in 
this country his great work on agricultural chemistry. 
At that time a very general impression prevailed that 
British agriculture was capable of very great develop- 
ment, but that there were no established principles to 
guide its advance, nor even any sure ground on which 
to tread, if any deviation were made either to the right 
or to the left of the beaten track marked out by our 
forefathers. 

" The appearance of Baron Liebig's book was there* 
fore naturally and deservedly hailed with great delight. 
AH admired the masterly way in which he traced the 
elements of vegetable life to their original sources, 
pointed out their chemical composition, and followed 
them through the various stages of the plant'*s develop 
ment and maturity until the process of decay had again 
reduced them to the elementary form. His main 
position, too, that in order permanently to maintain 
the fertility of cultivated land it was necessary to restore 
to it all the substances contained in the various crops 
exported from the farm, was as new to agriculturists as 
it was convincing, and its application to practical agri- 
iiulture seemed as simple and easy as it has since been 
found to be complicated and difficult. 



MANURES* 45 

" For the time, however, the whole secrets of the 
science of agriculture appeared to be laid open by the 
production of the master key ; nor could it well be other-* 
wise. The accuracy of the chemical investigations which 
formed the basis of this work has never been questioned ; 
and the reasoning with which the various results were 
united into one consistent and comprehensive scheme 
seemed so sound and satisfactory, that the delighted 
reader was led on by easy steps till he reached an ele- 
vation from which it was difficult to avoid believing that 
the prospect before him included the whole of the pasf^ 
present J and future of agriculture/' 

Had Liebig contented himself with the publication 
of his brilliant theorems, it might have been better for 
his fame : farmers would have gradually applied his 
principles to practice in the field, and, experience 
proving them to be correct, the belief in their usefulness 
would have extended ; the theory of one day would 
have been considered a fact the next, the day after a 
doctrine, and at length would have become a truism so 
trite as to cause wonder that an axiom so plain should 
ever have been doubted. Science and practice would 
then have gone hand in hand, the former pointing out 
the way, and the latter pursuing it. In this way the 
farmer would have become more intelligent, and farming 
operations more intelligible. But this appears to have 
been regarded as too slow a progress for the illustrious 
German; he became impatient to have his principles 
generally and at once adopted, forgetting that the 
prejudices and practices of centuries were not to be 
eradicated and superseded by a coup de main. He made 
a tour through the agricultural districts of England and 
Scotland^ in order to see for himself how our farming 



46 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

operations were conducted, and what they required to 
bring them to that degree of perfection which he con- 
sidered* his theory could not fail to attain. The result of 
his journe}nngs was a new edition of his book, " revised 
and corrected,^ in which some very sensible observations 
were expunged, and some very questionable advice in- 
serted ; as though a single tour of a few months was of 
itself sufficient to enable any man, however intelligent, 
to correct practices based upon the experience of gene- 
rations. This mistake, in all probability, led to another 
of a more damaging character. The baron, somehow 
or other, allowed his name to be mixed up with the 
manufacture of a new patent manure, which turned 
out a failure. This latter proceeding is much to be 
regretted, seeing that it not only placed him in a false 
position, but also placed his theory in antagonism with 
practice. Not that his theory was wrong, but that the 
application of it to practice was not right. Nor is this 
an uncommon occurrence: inventors iiiemselves rarely 
succeed in the practical application of their inventions. 
I very much doubt whether Archimedes could have 
tapped a common screw-nut; neither do I think that 
even Watt himself would have made a very efficient 
driver of a common locomotive; while, as ladies well 
know, poets who write so rapturously on love, pro- 
verbially make the stupidest of husbands. Yet such 
is the idiosyncrasy of man, that the great majority are 
convinced they can drive a gig, edit a newspaper, or 
farm a small property better than any one else. 

It is, therefore, not to be wondered at that Professor 
Liebig, after enunciating a theory, should consider himself 
better capable of reducing that theory to practice than 
any one else. But the failure of his manure, when applied 



MANURES. 47 

according to his own directions, proved one of two 
things ; viz., either that the manure itself was valueless, 
or that it was not properly applied. Mr. Lawes, in one 
of his experiments, proves the latter to have been the 
case. The doctrine laid down by Liebig was, that it 
was only necessary to return to the soil the mineral 
constituents abstracted by the crops taken from it, and 
that the ammonia requisite to their growth was supplied 
in sufficient quantity from the atmosphere, in addition 
to that which the soil naturally attracted and retained till 
taken up by growing plants. In conformity with this 
theory, he brought out, as before observed, a patent 
min^a/ manure, which, when applied alone, proved to be 
useless. But Mr. Lawes, in the course of his experiments, 
had found out that mineral manures would not increase 
the yield of wheat, without the addition of ammonia. 
He first applied Liebig^s manure alone, and the results 
yielded were quite insignificant; but when it was applied 
with the addition of ammonia, an increase of fourteen 
bushels of wheat and half a ton of straw per acre was 
obtained. 

Hence it is evident, that however valuable mineral 
manures (super-phosphate for instance) may be, their 
effects are abundantly increased by mixing them with 
salts of ammonia, which, in addition to its own direct 
action in promoting vegetation, greatly assists in de* 
composing such vegetable substances as the soil may 
contain, thereby fitting them for the food of plants; 
and hence, also, its value when added to farmyard 
manure. 



48 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 



THE CHEMISTRY OF THE DUNGHILL. 

This, of all others, is the most important branch of 
agricultural chemistry, and yet our dung-heaps are the 
opprobrium of British faiming. A farmstead contains 
sheds and hovels for everything but the muck-heap; 
yet it is to his muck-heap that the farmer must look for 
both his cattle and his crops ; and one would think that 
self-interest alone would be sufficient to induce him to 
strain every nerve to increase both the quantity and 
quality of an article of such paramount importance. 

Before proceeding to notice the locality and formation 
best adapted for dunghills, a few remarks may be useful 
as to the difference in quality of animal excrements. 

The dung of animals that chew the cud becomes, by 
that process, more thoroughly decomposed than that of 
others, and may therefore be mixed with the soil at 
once, without being collected into a dunghill. A horse 
does not chew the cud, and in horse-dung may be 
perceived seeds, particles of straw, hay, and other sub- 
stances, broken into small pieces, but still not dissolved ; 
it is therefore necessary that this process should be 
perfected in the dunghill. This difference between the 
dung of the horse and that of the cow is plainly visible 
in every pasture where they have been grazed ; the grass 
round the former being withered and apparently scorched, 
while, round the latter, it is both more exuberant and 
verdant than the rest of the field. In collecting manure 
for a dung-heap, care should also be taken that dry and 
moist materials should be spread upon it in alternatelayers, 
as, by the former extracting moisture from the other, 
they all become equally moist. Nor is the construction of 



MANURES. 49 

the dung-heap to be neglected. First, as to foundation : 
if the soil upon which it is to be built be in any great 
degree porous, it should be paved or concreted, to prevent 
the juices from sinking into the ground ; and, to prevent 
those juices from being washed away, it should be sunk 
a few inches below the surface of the ground; it 
should also, to prevent the rain from running into it, 
be surrounded by a ring of clay or sods; and if the 
moisture happens to be superabundant, it should be led 
off by a small gutter, in order to impregnate the collected 
ditch-scourings — accumulations of twitch-grass or other 
weeds — with even rich mould too, laid down to receive it, 
which will make such accumulations equal to very good 
dung, and better than much of that which is collected in 
the ordinary way* I have often witnessed, with feelings 
of pity bordering upon contempt, a farmer sending his 
carts to market for artificial manures, when the roots of 
bis hedges fronting the highways, and the adjacent 
ditches, were full of weeds and vegetable matter, which, 
if collected and putrefied, would have furnished him 
with manure amply sufficient for his wants. And here 
the half-starved system of farming again peeps out. To 
cut and collect these weeds, to scour ditches and hedge- 
rows, would require the expenditure of a few pounds in 
extra labour ; and, to save this, the farmer is content, 
oay^ compelled, to spend double the sum in artificial 
fertilizers, the benefits derived from which are trifling 
beyond the first year, while good farmyard dung shows 
its beneficial effects for a period of four or five years. 

Erection of Dunghills. — In erecting a dunghill, no 
matter whether large or small, care should be taken not 
ta trample or press it down, as this has a tendency to 
exclude the air, and thus to prevent putrefaction : its own 

£ 



50 SCIENTIFIC FABMIK6 MADE EASY. 

weight will give it sufficient compactness to insure 
putrefaction being carried on ; and, to prevent evapcMrar 
tion, it ought to be covered with a thin layer of mould. 
The neglect of this practice of covering over dung*heaps 
is, I am sorry to say, very general, and is about one of 
the most profligate ways of wasting valuable manure 
that can possibly be conceived. Not only is the dung- 
heap deteriorated in quality, but it is diminished in 
quantity, and that, too, to such an extent as would 
probably cause great astonishment to many of my 
readers ; and I really hope that such of them as neglect 
the practice will no longer pursue a course by which, 
under the most favourable circumstances, they must 
sustain a loss of at least S5 per cent. From a series of 
experiments made by Koerte,* the loss of weight sus- 
tained by the exposure of one hundred loads of manure 
to the action of the sun, wind, and rain, was found to be 
as follows. One hundred loads at the end of the periods 
stated,—- 

In 81 days it was reduced to 78*8 loads ; loss 26*7 loads. 
264 „ „ 64-4 „ „ 85*6 „ 

884 „ „ 62*5 „ „ 87*5 „ 

493 „ „ 47*2 „ „ 62-8 „ 

This table only shows the loss in weight ; the loss in 
quality would doubtless be in similar proportion ; and if 
this statement be not sufficient to induce every farmer 
to protect his dung-heap from injury by wind, sun, 
and rain, nothing that I can add will be likely to do so. 

"The value of farmyard dung,^ says Mr. Acland,. 
'^probably consists in several points. 1. That it pre* 
sents a great choice of salts of all sorts, in every state 

* GiRASDiN, De9 Pvmieri considSrSt comme Engraisy chap. ▼• : Paris.. 



MANURES. 51 

of combination, and in every digestible form ; so that 
the plant finds all its wants easily supplied. Well-made 
dung is always rich in ammonia, phosphates, and potash, 
which, as we have seen, are elements of prime neces« 
sity. S. It acts mechanically on the soil, by loosen- 
ing clay and binding light soils. 8. Its slow ferment- 
ation no doubt raises the temperature of the soil : and 
lastly, as it ferments and decomposes, it probably sup- 
plies carbonic acid to the roots of the plants, and so 
assists the action of the atmosphere and the rain, both in 
directly suppljdng carbon and in dissolving the alkalies 
and other minerals in the soil. The objection to dung 
as the sole supply of the farm is that it is expensive to 
make, bulky to move, and always insufficient in quantity ; 
and on these accounts the chemist and the farmer have 
dcHie their best to find some cheaper means of keeping 
up the fertility of the soil, and the supply of the food 
of the people.^ Such being the natural advantages 
possessed by well-made farmyard dung over every other 
kind of manure, it is worse than unpardonable to neglect 
the best means of collecting and storing it for use. 

In ccmnection with this all-important question, I may 
add that, in that amusing book, *' How to Farm profit- 
ably; or, the Sayings and Doings of Mr. Alderman 
Mechi,^ after enumerating the losses sustained by farmers 
by the use of too much seed, the writer observes : ** Then 
tiiere was money wasted in another way, — ^in the washing, 
drying, and mangling of their dung-heaps.^ He goes 
on to stflte that *^ he did not put out his to be washed, 
dried, and mangled ; but he took them from out of his 
tank, or from under his animals, and carted them 
directly on the land, and ploughed them in, intermixing 
it all, in every possible way, with various particles of 

E 2 



52 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

soil. He found, practically, that taking dung out of th& 
yard after it had been well washed by the rains, and 
then making a heap of it, to be again well washed and 
dried, and then again to be moved and carted on to the 
land, was a great waste of time, and consequently of 
money." 

Here, however, Mr. Mechi, with his usual boldness, 
assumes as a real advantage that which, hitherto, has 
been deemed simply a matter of speculation; some 
scientific agriculturists asserting, like the alderman, that 
it is more advantageous to apply farmyard manure to 
the soil in a fresh state ; others, on the contrary, consider 
it is better to apply it after it has been well fermented 
in the dunghill. Professor Voelcker and other men of 
eminence seem to lean to the former opinion, while 
Johnston and others incline to the latter ; with which view 
I also am disposed to concur. Dr, Voelcker (in the 
Quarterly Jour, of Agric, 1857, p. 155) states it as his 
opinion, that the loss sustained by spreading farmyard 
dung upon the land in a fresh state, even for a con- 
siderable period before it is ploughed in, is by no means 
so injurious a practice as we have hitherto been led to 
suppose. He says that, ^^ on all soils with a moderate 
proportion of clay, no fear need be entertained of 
valuable fertilizing substances becoming wasted, if the 
manure cannot be ploughed in at once. Fresh, and even 
well-rotted dung, contains very little free ammonia; 
and, since active fermentation, and with it the further 
evolution of free ammonia, is stopped by spreading out 
the manure upon the field, valuable manuring matter 
cannot escape into the air by adopting this plan." 

All that we can gather from the foregoing remarks is 
this^ — that where the land contains a moderate propor* 



MANURES. 53 

tion of clay, the loss is not so great as we have been led 
to suppose. Nevertheless, the writer admits that there 
is a loss, even upon moderately-clayed lands. But what 
is that loss upon lands that do not contain a moderate 
proportion of clay ? Here I apprehend — ^nay further, I 
know — that the loss of ammonia is very considerable. All 
that Alderman Mechfs dictum is worth is, that he saves 
a little time and trouble, and consequently expense, by 
leading his manure upon the land in a fresh state, instead 
of putting it out to ^^ wash and mangle," as he jocularly 
designates it. But, with all deference to him, I must 
beg leave to demur even as to the point of saving of time 
and trouble. Mr. Mechi leads out his fresh manure in 
a state of long straw, for he tells us that *' he does not 
chop his haum ; he could not afford it.^ Now I think 
every practical farmer will bear me out in the assertion 
that long manure requires a much larger amount of 
labour to plough in and bury than short ; and therefore, 
80 far as labour is concerned, I am inclined to think that 
the benefit gained by Mr. Mechi is like a saving at the 
tap and letting it run out at the bunghole. 

But I have a much greater objection to the spreading 
of manure upon the land in a fresh state. We all know 
that manures lose weight during the process of ferment* 
ation ; but this loss is not nearly so great as it is when 
the manure is freely exposed to the sun and air in a 
fresh state; and, moreover, its action upon the plant is 
not so immediate. Fresh dung must be decomposed in 
the soil before plants can appropriate it as food; but 
rotted dung, from its being so much more soluble, 
can be appropriated immediately. Neither will Mr. 
Medii^s ** washing'' objections serve him, seeing that 
fresli dupg spread upon the soil cannot rot without the 



54 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

aid of moisture, and that moisture must come from the 
clouds ; and therefore, after all, Mr. Mechi does in reality 
^^ put his washing out,^^ instead of doing it at his own 
copper at home ; his washing, in fact, takes place in his 
fields instead of in his dung-heap. And if his be a clay 
farm, through which soil the water cannot readily per- 
colate, the loss will be so much the greater. 

I have already stated that manure-heaps should either 
be covered over, or other means be taken to prevent their 
fertilizing juices being washed away by excessive rains. 
In ordinary seasons, the rains will rarely be found to 
be injurious, seeing that the amount of ammonia they 
bring down with them will pretty nearly compensate for 
what they may wash out, which at least is a saving of 
one substance ; and if the directions given in a former 
portion of this chapter be followed, there need be no 
loss at all. 

In support of what I have advanced, I here subjoin 
the results of two experiments made by Lord Kinnaird 
in 1861 and 1852:— 

^^ Lord Kinnaird found that two parts of the same 
field, dressed with equal quantities, the one manure 
prepared under cover of a roof, and trodden down by 
cattle, the other manure from the open fold-yard, gave, 
in—* 

Covered. Uncovered. 

1851 11 1 tons 7i tons of potatoes. 

1852 54 bushels 42 bushels of wheat. 

1852 215 stone 156 stone of straw." 

Whenever Mr. Mechi shall be able to furnish an 
account per contra^ showing a saving of labour to the 
fsame amount, I promise to reconsider the matter ; till 
iJben, however, I must be excused if I stick by the old 



MANURES. 55 

ttitick-faeap. One other remark to my farming friends : 
Don't be afraid of Mr. Mechi^s washing-bill, only take 
care to see that the suds are not lost, but that they are 
taken up and thoroughly incorporated with either soil, 
ashes, or any other absorbent {lime excepted) ; and then 
you will not fiGul to secure much better crops than you 
will from saving a few shillings, and carting out your 
dung fresh from the fold-yard, and spreading it at once 
upon the land. 

COMPOST-HEAPS. 

In point of importance, compost-heaps rank next to 
the dunghill ; the only superiority of the latter is owing 
to its being composed of richer materials ; seeing that a 
great portion of them are composed of com, bran, and 
other nutritious substances, rich in both the organic 
and inorganic constituents of plants, and possessing, in 
addition, the advantage of having become partially 
decomposed. in passing through the body of the animal. 
Nevertheless, if compost-heaps are properly put to- 
gether, and well managed, they are but little inferior to 
farmyard diing. And I speak advisedly when I say, 
that if sufficient trouble be taken to collect weeds and 
other vegetable refuse (instead of burning the former, 
which is too frequently the cade), and then to throw 
them into aheap for the purpose of making compost, 
not only would a large amount . of valuable manure be 
obtained, but the farmer would in many instances be 
relieved from the necessity of purchasing expensive 
artificial fertilizers. " A weed,'' says Dr. Bucknill, " is 
but a plant out of place ;" and I am quite sure my 
readers will all agree in thinking that they are out of 
place when found with their wheat and other crops. 



56 SCIENTIFIC FARMING' MADS BAST« 

Yet, noxious as tbey indisputably are, they are not 
altogether valueless, and many of them, as I shall 
presently show, when properly decomposed, afford most 
valuable fertilizing constituents. Professor Voelcker 
(who so ably fills the position of consulting chemist to 
the Royal Agricultural Society) remiuds me of an Indian 
sportsman I once met with, who with his double-bar- 
relled gun let fly at everything that came in his way^ 
from a snipe to an elephant. So with the learned profesr 
sor, he brings his analytical battery to bear with equal 
force upon the most important plant and the most con- 
temptible weed, and herein does most important service. 
I find in the Journal of ihe Royal Agricultural Society^ 
vol. xviii. p. 851, the following analysis of two very 
common and very troublesome weeds ; viz. couch-grass 
and the stemless thistle. One hundred parts of the 
ash of the former gave on analysis the following very 
highly-fertilizing ingredients ; — 

Cftrbonate of potash 14*10 

Potash in a state of silicate 0*27 

Soda ia a state of silicate , 5*69 

Chloride of sodium 3*34 

Oxides of iron and alumina 12*40 

united with phosphoric add 9*38 

equal to bone-earth (20'32> 

Sulphate of lime 9*06 

Carbonate of lime 8*30 

Magnesia in a state of silicate 0*04 

Soluble silica 24*92 

Insoluble silicioos matter (sand) 17'50 

10000 

A slight glance at the foregoing analysis will be 
sufiicient to show that couch-grass is rich in many of 
those ingredients in which most cultivated soils are 



in 100 
parts. 



MANURES. 57 

deficient, and which are expensive to purchase ; for in- 
stance, it contains more than 14 per cent, of carbonate of 
-potash ; it contains constituents equal to more than S^^ 
•per cent, of bone-earth, and very nearly 25 per cent, of 
soluble silica, so necessary in adding to the strength 
of the stem of all cereals. The ash of the stemless 
thistle was found on analysis to give- 
Potash and chloride of potassium 27*40 " 

Chloride of sodium 0*90 

lime • 41*44 

Magnesia 4*40 

Oxide of iron and alumina 2*01 

Phosphoric acid 5*36 

Sulphuric acid 2*92 

Soluble silica and sand 8*50 

Carbonic acid and loss 12*07 _ 

Here it will be seen that lime forms the principal 
constituent ; but it will also be seen that potash enters 
largely into the constituents of the ash of this plant, as 
also does phosphoric acid. Now it is a fact well worth 
the serious consideration of the farmer, that these two 
.constituents form a very important item in the money 
value of every artificial manure he purchases ; and they 
are, as he will find when we come to treat of artificial 
manures, the very ingredients in which many of them 
are especially deficient. And here, also, it may be im- 
portant to state that all the mineral constituents of plants 
are much more valuable, when they can be obtained in a 
soluble state by natural decomposition, than they are 
when that state of solubility has to be brought about by 
artificial means. 

Before proceeding to lay down a few rules for the 
manipulation of compost-heaps, a few general observa- 
tions upon, weeds may not be out of place, seeing that 



68 SCIENTIFIC PABMINQ MADB EAST, 

their destruction in the compost-heap is by far the best 
and most economical way of getting rid of them ; it is 
dangerous to use the dung-heap for this purpose, as their 
seeds and roots there are not always effectually de- 
stroyed: besides, the thing would be impossiUe if 
.Mr. Mechi*s plan were to obtain general practice. 

To the farmer, then, everything is a weed -which is 
out of place, and has a tendency to obstruct or injure 
the crop he wishes to cultivate. A blade of wheat is as 
much a weed in a crop of turnips as a thistle, and more 
mischievous too, inasmuch as it absbrbs more valuable 
fertilizing matter. For our purpose, weeds may conve- 
niently be divided into two classes,-?— iirst, the annuals ; 
and second, all that have a longer existence, which may be 
comprehended under the general name of perennials. 
These again may be divided into such as propagate by 
their roots and such as propagate by their seed. It it 
almost unnecessary to specify such weeds as couch-grass, 
knot-grass, and the like : all farmers know bow impos- 
sible it is to produce a good com crop upon soil oven- 
run with these, and how di£Bcult it is to eradicate them. 
The roots of couch-grass are particularly long and full of 
juice, and withal so tenacious of life, that if but one 
single joint be left in the soil, it never fails to strike and 
spring up. To get rid of this pest, there is nothing for 
it but hand-picking, after ploughing and harrowing. 
In the latter process I would recommend a harrow made 
expressly for the purpose, having round instead of 
square tines, as not being so liable to cut the roots, and 
therefore more likely to bring them out in longer pieces. 
Docks and thistles every one knows how to manage; but 
as these propagate by their seeds, and as those of the 
latter are furnished with wings and fly away to immense 



MAKURBS. 69 

distances, care should be taken to grub them up before 
the seed becomes ripe and fit for reproduction. For 
pulling up thistles I saw an excellent contrivance a 
short time since in Lincolnshire. In appearance it 
resembled a large pair of garden-shears ; but instead of 
being furnished with blades for cutting, it assumed the 
form of a long pair of nippers, opening and shutting 
like a duck^s bill, only much longer, hollowed in the 
centre, and sharply pointed, so as easily to penetrate the 
soil. These were opened just sufficiently wide to encom* 
pass the root of the plant ; thrust in that position into 
the ground ; and with a vigorous pull out came the root 
entire. With these few remarks upon weeds in general, 
we will now suppose them all to be collected. It is a 
very common, though, nevertheless, a very unthrifty 
practice, to bum them in a heap ; as by so doing every 
100 lbs. produce no more than about 2 or 3 lbs. 
of ash ; and that is generally left upon the spot on 
which it has been burnt, until by repeated rains the 
whole of its soluble properties (chiefly potash) are 
wasted. A far better plan is to make them into a 
compost-heap. 

On the subject o{ compost-heaps. Dr. Bucknill^ gives 
the following valuable advice :•— 

<^ The first thing is to secure a wide-spreading roof, to 
prevent the wash of the rain, and the consequent solution 
and removal of the saline ingredients. Under this roof 
must be accumulated vegetable refuse, weeds, leaves, 
turnip-tops, stubble, ditch-scourings, &c., and loamy 
porous soil (the more porous the better), road-scrapings, 

* See the JovmaZ of the Bath and West o£ England Agricultural 
Society for 1855, p. 94. 



60 SCIENTIFIC FARMING HADE EAST. 

old mortar, old cob-wall, &c. &c, ; the earthy and vege- 
table matter being in about equal proportions by bulk. 
They should be spread about three feet in depth, 
thoroughly mixed and well watered with liquid manure* 
In the course of two or three weeks, salt should be 
added, in the proportion of 1 ton to 9.0 or SO tons of 
compost ; and at this time also material containing lime, 
but not in a caustic state, forms a useful addition. 
Lime ashes spread about and exposed for some days, 
being watered, or old mortar, is the readiest way in 
which it can be used. After these materials have been 
well mixed in, the mass, which will have shrunk con- 
siderably, must be made into long parallel heaps, about 
S feet high and 4 feet wide, with a small space between 
each ; and thus they must lie, watered from time to time 
with liquid manure or prepared gas-liquor,* and moved 
from time to time with the fork (to maintain their 
porosity and supply them with fresh air), for eighteen 
months, or thereabouts, when the principal portion of 
the chemical changes will have been effected, and the 
heap will be ripe for use. The more the heap is moved 
the better ; for by frequent motion alone can its porosity 
be maintained, and the contact of air with the decayed 
particles of matter. Its movement will form useful 
occupation for farming men in bad weather; but it 
should never be neglected too long at a time. In 
watering it with liquid manure, urine, or gas-liquor, 
care should be taken not to make it too wet, as that 
condition is adverse to porosity. The great object to be 
kept in view in its management is to maintain the con- 



* For the method of preparing ibis liquor, see p. 78, under the 
head of " Ammoniacal Liquor." 



BPECIAL MANURES* 61 

stant contact in every part of the mass of air and water^ 
of decaying vegetable matter, and the chemical materials* 
The prepared gas-liquor may be used at two or three 
different times : it should be added at least in the pro^ 
portion of one hogshead to five tons of compost : it will 
not be easy to add too much of it. The texture of the 
material should be kept in the condition of moistish 
brown sugar. Managed in this manner, the material 
will be in a state to supply any crop with all, or almost 
all, the food required by its roots. To feed the cereal 
crops, it may, however, want one thing, viz., the phos-i 
phoric salts. Now there is no cheap source for these 
most important constituents; they must be supplied 
either by the addition of superphosphate of lime, or 
other known substances containing phosphoric acid,^ 

Among these may be mentioned, the more strongly 
phosphorized guanos, coprolite earth, or phosphoric green 
sand, bran, or the dung of pigs fed on bran. The 
farmer must either save his phosphorus from the bran of 
his com crops, or the bones and excrements of his 
animals, or he must be content to buy it, and pay a high 
price for it. In conclusion, I would observe that the 
farmer who neglects to collect the weeds and other v^e^ 
table refuse of his farm, and convert them into compost* 
heaps, neglects his own interest, as there is no better way 
of collecting manure at so small a cost, or that will pay 

him better interest for his outlay. 

« 

SPECIAL MANURES. 

Salt. — Many farmers use common salt as a manure, 
without being acquainted with its properties, or at all 
understanding the right way of applying it ; hence it 



63 BCIEHTinC FABSnNO MADB EAST. 

not unjfrequently happens that, instead of good, it does 
barm; and farmer John, instead of blaming his own 
ignorance, as he ought, blames the article itself; and 
therefore farmer Thomas, acting under his advice, 
will have nothing to do with it. Nevertheless, I can 
boldly assert that, when properly applied as a special 
manure,, it is both a cheap, active, and valuable ferti- 
lizer, while for mixing with other manures it is invalu- 
able. 

I am old enough to remember the time when the tar 
upon salt was £80 per ton, and even then it was used 
to a small extent in feeding cattle, and as an artificial 
manure. The value of salt in feeding cattle will be 
found discussed at large in a subsequent portion of the 
work. Our business at the present moment is with its 
properties as a manure. When applied to the soil, the 
following are some of its effects : — It supplies soda and 
chlorine to growing plants ; attracts moisture from the 
atmosphere, and resists freezing : it is sharp without 
being either acid or alkaline ; and is both soluble and 
penetrative. It promotes the putrefaction of vegetable 
matters when sparingly used, and has a contrary efiect 
when used in excess. When mixed with lime and some 
of its compounds, a double decomposition takes place, 
and other, and often more active fertilizers are produced. 
It keeps the soil moist in dry, and soft in frosty weather, 
and suits dry soils and seasons when other manures 
require wet. By its attraction for moisture, it keeps 
everything in the soil in a soluble state, and so enables 
plants to take them up with the greatest facility, and it 
also assists the action of the atmosphere upon them. It 
further assists the process of assimilation in the soil, and 
thus fits its fertilizing properties for vegetable nutrition, 



SPECIAL MAKURES. 63 

and prepares them for enriching the root-sap. By its 
penetrative properties, it destroys weeds and vermin, 
and, when used in excess, cultivated plants also. 

Its effects on Manures. — When mixed with farmyard 
dung, the latter has been found more effective for 
turnips than double the quantity without it ; i. e,y one- 
fourth of dung to three-fourths of salted peat-earthy 
vegetable mould, or decayed sawdust, thoroughly incor- 
porated and worked into a rich soapy state, produced a 
heavier crop of both turnips and potatoes than the whole 
four parts of dung alone; a result doubtlessly arising 
from its assimilative and penetrative qualities. When 
mixed with a dunghill at the rate of about two tons to 
thirty, it kills the seeds and roots of weeds, and also 
destroys both insects and other vermin contained therein, 
as well as promotes the fermentation and decomposition 
of the whole mass : neither does it set free the ammonia, 
like lime. By the double decomposition which takes 
place when mixed with lime and some of its com- 
pounds, soda combined with carbonic acid is produced, 
which, from their powers of assimilation, possess greater 
fertilizing properties than salt itself. This mixture also 
produces muriate of lime (chloride of calcium), which 
has a stronger attraction for moisture than almost any 
other compound ; while the same mixture promotes 
vegetable decay much quicker than either of the sub- 
stances used alone ; and hence their combined value in 
compost-heaps. With gypsum, salt supplies soda and 
sulphuric add cheaper timn they can be obtained in any 
other way. In fact, there are but few fertilizing 
substances that may not be most advantageously mixed 
with salt. 

The effsct of Salt upon Plants. — The effects of salt 



64 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

upon root-crops are greater than upon those of cdrn^ 
because, in the first place, they contain more of it in 
their composition ; and, secondly, because they require 
more moisture, which it has the power of attracting. 
Pastures, as well as roots, are rendered more palatable 
to animals by it, and more wholesome, in consequence of 
their being more soluble, and consequently, also, more 
nutritious. Further, although not an alkali, it has the 
effect of sweetening sour piastures* This is due to the 
action of its chlorine upon the leaf; and, as has been 
before observed, it produces more ear, heavier grain, and 
firmer straw in wheat, barley, and other cereals, by enrich^ 
ing the sap, and by producing compounds which render 
the silica in the soil soluble ; thereby imparting a stronger 
stem, not so liable to be laid by heavy rains. It does 
not accelerate, but rather retards germination ; but it 
enables plants, by improved means of assimilation, to 
make up for this deficiency, and thus causes them to 
outrun others not similarly treated ; although it is not till 
a plant arrives nearly at maturity that the beneficial 
efiect of salt becomes fully developed ; then its stimulative 
efi*ects are made manifest, and it is at once seen how 
it strengthens cultivated plants, and enables them to 
master weeds by overrunning them. It accelerates 
blossoming in peas and other leguminous plants, and, 
by its operation, grain crops come earlier to maturity^ 
These are some of the effects produced by salt upon 
plants when used alone ; but its value is greatly enhanced 
when used in conjunction with ammonia; as these two 
salts mutually assist each other in promoting vegetation, 
by each in turn supplying the defects of the other. 

Advantages of Salt in combination with Ammonia.'-^ 
Salt and ammonia act differently in promoting the 



SPECIAL MANURES. 65 

growth of plants. The former retards, rather than 
forces, the growth of young plants, while the forcing 
power of the latter is very great (hence the almost im- 
mediate effects of nitrate of soda) : it produces a deeper 
green appearance, with luxuriant juicy growth, and, 
when used in excess, causes corn crops to run to straw, 
and flag. Salt does not deepen the green, but strengthens 
the plant in its after-growth ; imparts a great solidity 
to root and green crops ; improves their nutritive proper- 
ties, as before observed ; and gives to corn crops more 
ear, heavier grain, and less straw. Hence it will be seen 
that ammonia promotes early vegetation, while salt re- 
tards it; but, on the other hand, imparts strength, 
firmness, and solidity — (and here I may observe that there 
is no safer criterion than weight by which to determine 
nutrition in all crops). The practical inference, there- 
fore, is, that the two ingredients act more beneficially 
when used in conjunction than when applied separately ; 
therefore, a judicious use of the two cannot fail of proving 
of great benefit to the farmer. But there is still another 
valuable property of salt, which must not be overlooked: 
it has the effect of greatly improving the quality of 
injured hay, if applied a few handfuls at a time (about 
28 lbs. to the ton), by scattering it with a sieve over 
layers of the hay at the time of stacking; and, whether 
the hay be injured or not, it has been abundantly proved 
that hay so salted is greatly relished by cattle : they eat 
it with greater avidity, and thrive better upon it.* 

* Some years ago a series of letters upon this subject appeared in, 
I think, the Plym<ntJth Journal^ from Mr. J. Prideaux, a west-country 
chemist of great eminence, and a most reliable authority. I made an 
abstract ef them at the time, being struck with their importance, and 
since then, a farmer (one who really deserves the name) has applied 

F 



66 SCIEKTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

Mode of Application^ and Quantity to he Used. — The 
following instructions for using salt for manurial pur- 
poses, have been kindly furnished me by an old and 
esteemed agricultural friend; who, for a number of 
years, has been in the habit of using it largely on his 
own land. 

} Quantity per Acre.--^^^ With regard to the quantity 
to :be applied," my informant observes, ** my practice is 
.as follows : — If I want to fallow a piece of ground, I first 
sow it with such a quantity of salt as is sufficient to 
destroy yegetation, — I generally find from twenty to 
five-and-twenty bushels per acre sufficient for this pur- 
pose. This, however, depends a good deal upon the nature 
of the soil : sometimes I find less will do, and at other 
times more is required ; I therefore say from twenty to 
twenty-five bushels, but even thirty bushels may in some 
cases be found necessary for this purpose. But I must 
observe this is to be sown broad-cast, and that, too, for 
ten days or a fortnight before beginning to work the 
land with the plough. And as to time, I generally choose 
the autumn, so as to give the salt a better chance of 
destroying the weeds and grass, without giving them a 
season in which they can again propagate. When these 
appear to be all killed, I set the plough to work, and 
by the time the land is well worked, the salt will be 
thoroughly mixed and incorporated with the soil, and 
therefore, by seed-time I always find it reduced to that 
strength which is best adapted for forwarding the vege- 
tation of whatever crop may be sown upon it. This 



tbem to practice with uniform success. In the text above I give hiti 
instractions for using salt, — ^not only for manuring land, but feeding 
cattle. 



SPECIAL MANURES. 67 

mode of treatment 1 have invariably found to answer 
well, and produce far better crops than others diflTerently 
treated, — at least, so far as my experience goes. I have 
also found that I save considerably in labour by this 
method, as the tough, adhesive clods and lumps which 
give so much trouble upon strong clayey soils, are 
much easier broken and dispersed by the action of the 
salt, and therefore give less obstruction to the harrow, 
at the first working. In deep loamy dry earth, upon 
which wheat has grown, after the crop is got in, my 
custom is to plough the land, and in that state let it 
lie fallow until the spring, when I cross-plough, and, 
after a fine harrow, plant with potatoes. As soon as the 
potatoes are covered with earth, I then sow, as before, 
eight bushels of salt (4 cwt.) per acre upon them. By 
treating the land in this way, it is my firm opinion, 
founded upon years of experience, that a crop of wheat 
and potatoes may be taken alternately on the same 
ground for ever,* Upon other corn lands, sown in the 
usual way, I am in the habit, after spring ploughing, 
of sowing eight bushels of salt per acre immediately 
after the grain is harrowed in. I find this plan act 
beneficially in many ways: it improves the soil, and 
destroys both weeds and insects ; and by keeping the 
land moist, generally secures an abundant crop. I do 
not, however, recommend eight bushels of salt to be 
applied to the wheat crop every year, — after the land has 
had one good dressing, five bushels will be sufficient to 
keq) it in a most productive state. 

* With great deference to mj friend's extensive practice and long 
experience, I must beg to demur to this opinion. I do not know the 
oonstituents of his soil ; but if not well supplied with phosphate of lime, 
in the shape of coprolite, his plan will soon exhaust it. 

r 2 



68 SCIENTIFIC FARMIMG MADE EASY, 

" For Meadow Ground — I use three bushels per 
acre, well mixed with about half a ton of ashes, and 
sown immediately after the hay is got in. This I find 
to increase both the quantity and quality of the eddish ; 
and the cattle eat it with greater reh'sh than where the 
salt has not been used. 

" For Pasture Land — I never use less than eight 
bushels of salt per acre : the coarser it is the better I like 
it, as it does not rest upon the blade, but at once gets to 
the roots, and I greatly prefer it when mixed with seven 
or eight cartloads of earth or coal-ashes, letting it lie 
for six weeks or two months before using, turning it 
over four or five times in the interval. This I generally 
prefer doing in the autumn. Some time since I had a 
small grass-field, which, from the time it came into my 
hands, had produced nothing but a very dark-coloured 
dry kind of grass, upon which neither horses nor cattle 
would thrive. I had it sown with eight bushels of salt, 
mixed with about a cartload of ashes and soil, early in 
March: ever since that time it has been remarkably 
green, but not so dark as before, and cattle of all kinds 
relish and do exceedingly well upon it. 

" For the Garden and Hothouse. — I recommended 
the use of salt for the garden and hothouse some years 
ago to a friend and neighbour of mine. The plan he 
adopts is, to sprinkle a small portion of salt on the 
surface of the soil after everything which is sown ; and, 
he informs me, that by this system, every description of 
produce is brought to maturity three weeks or a month 
sooner than they are under the ordinary mode of culti- 
vation ; the various grains are improved in weight and 
solidity, and the fruits in richness and flavour.'' 

Soot is a valuable and well*known fertilizer; but its 



SPECIAL MANURES. 



69 



value is immensely increased when mixed with an equal 
weight of salt If used in this way to the extent of about 
twelve bushels per acre, and ploughed in, it is found to 
exert a most beneficial influence upon all root and grain 
crops ; wheat, parsnips, and carrots are greatly improved 
by it. This manure (soot) should always be bought 
by weight ; if bought by the bushel, the farmer is sure 
to be cheated. I never yet (and I have bought some 
thousands of bushels) could succeed in making the 
measure tally with the quantity stated. A bushel of 
soot ought to weigh 21 lbs., if it weigh heavier, adultera- 
tion may be suspected. According to Dr. Voelcker's 
analysis, it contains, in its natural state, — 

Per cent. 

Moieture 10-620 . 

Organic matters and ammoniacal 
salts containing 1*22 of am- 
monia 46*554 . 

Oxide of iron and alumina 15*691 . 

Lime 7*840 . 

Magnesia 0*389 . 

Potash 0*318 . 

Soda 0-122 . 

Sulphuric acid 8*670 . 

Phosphoric acid 0*259 . 

Carbonic acid 0*497. 

Chlorine 1*008 . 

Soluble silica 4*014 . 

Insoluble silicious matter— chiefly 

sand 4-159 .... 93 2j^ 

The price of soot varies, particularly in large manu- 
&cturing towns, in summer and winter ; the best time 
for purchasing cheaply is about September or October. 
The diflference in price will amply pay for keeping. If 
collected then, and mixed with salt as before directed, 



Per ton. 


lbs. 


oz. 


. 237 


14 


.1040 


9 


. 351 


7^ 


. 175 


n 


. 8 


Hi 


. 7 


u 


. 2 


111 


. 194 


3^ 


. 5 


12} 


. 11 


2 


. 22 


H 


. 89 


14i 



70 SCIENTIFIO FARMINQ MADB EAST. 

and kept covered over with mould, it will supply the 
farmer with a large portion of richly-ammoniated 
manure. 

Gas Refuse, or the Residues left in the manufacture 
of Gas. — Whatever may be the result of the controversy 
between Baron Liebig and his chemical compeers, as to 
the value of ammoniacal manures, it would be useless 
to speculate upon here. One thing is certain, viz., that 
although a particular soil may contain all the mineral 
constituents necessary for the growth of plants, and that 
these may be present in their proper proportions, and in 
a state of solubility, ammonia is indispensably requisite 
to the perfection of vegetable growth. And upon soils 
so heavily cropped as those of England, and where so 
much of the produce is carted off the farm, the quantity 
of ammonia brought down by the rain is by no means 
sufficient to keep up the necessary supply. It therefore 
becomes absolutely necessary that it should be obtained 
from other sources. This being so, the question naturally 
occurs, — From what sources can it be obtained at the 
cheapest rate ? Thirty or forty years ago this would 
have been an embarrassing question to deal with, but 
now it is easily answered, seeing that nearly every town, 
and indeed many populous villages throughout the 
country, are lit with gas,* and it is in the manufacture 

* I caD well remember the first public introduction of gas into London, 
when it was only intended to supersede the use of oil lamps in the public 
streets. Even for that purpose it was looked upon with disfavour; 
but when Mr. Windsor first proposed to introduce it into shops and 
private dwellings, the storm burst out in all its fury, and he was 
assailed on every hand : deep-thinking mathematicians, — men learned 
in the law, — profound physicians, — cool calculating speculators, — and 
shrewd directors of public insurance companies, — all rose against the 
movement, in urma. Fearful forebodings and profound prophedeB flew 



SPECIAL 1IANUBE8. 71 

of coal-gas that ammonia is most abundantly produced 
Gas for illuminating purposes is prepared from bitu- 
minous coaly by a process of distillation carried on in 
cast-iron or clay retorts, which are heated to a bright 
red. A variety of vaporous products are given off during 
this process, the principal being carburetted hydrogen, 
sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid, ammonia, and 
tar, — ^while the carbon of the coal remains in the retort 
in the form of coke. Carburetted hydrogen, as it passes 
&om the retorts, cannot be directly used for the purposes 
of illumination, inasmuch as it contains certain products 
not only offensive to the sense of smell and injurious to 
health, but also of such a nature as would condense and 
block up the pipes through which it is required to pass. 
The gas, &c., on leaving the retorts, is received in a 
large horizontal pipe half filled with water {the hydraulic 
main) ; from this it passes through a series of iron pipes 
kept constantly cool (refrigerators) ^ till it reaches a 
vessel called ^^the condenser^'''' and in its course large 
portions of the ammonia, tar, and other vaporous pro- 
ducts, become condensed, and by suitable arrangements 



about in all directions. Houses were to be blown down, and people 
were to be blown up. Fire offices were to be ruined by explosions and 
fire; and life offices to become bankrupt by so many people being 
poisoned ; and so great was the dismay of one of the latter of these 
institutions, that they had a set of new tables computed to meet the 
coming emergency ; while " the fadtliy " boldly asserted (and what 
does it not boldly assert f) that an extra college would be required 
to pass a sufficient number of medical men to meet the immense 
amount of disease which this new project must necessarily produce. 
In spite, however, of all these sweeping denunciations, the divine 
command, ** Let there be light," predominated over the long chapter of 
lamentations opposed to it. The people would have gas — and they 
bad it! 



72 SCIENTIFIO FARMING MADE EASY. 

are carried into the tar and liquor-tanka. From the 
condenser the gas passes on to a series of iron chambers 
called ^^purifiersy" and here it is forced through a number 
of layers of slaked lime and other substances, in a moist 
state, which have, or otf^A^ to have^ the effect of removing 
all the sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid ; from 
these it passes through the station*meter into the gas- 
holder, and is ready for use. It is the residues left in 
this process, and their properties, that we here have to 
consider. Of these, by far the most important is the 
ammoniacal liqour, as it is from this source that the 
greater portion of the ammonia of commerce is derived. 
But there are other residues left in the manufacture of 
gas, of great importance in agricultural operations, which 
it will be also necessary to consider as we proceed. 

Ammoniacal Liquor, — Shortly after the establishment 
of the Agricultural College at Cirencester, Professor 
Voelcker analyzed two samples of the liquor procured 
from the gas-works of that town. From 100 gallons of 
one he obtained 18 lbs. of ammonia, and from the other 
27 lbs. Being struck with this great discrepancy, I made 
three other analyses; two from different kinds of coal used 
at the works with which I am connected, and the third 
from a sample of 300 gallons received from another estab- 
lishment. On examining the latter sample, I found it so 
weak that I was led to suppose it had, by some means 
or other, become diluted,, the per-centage of ammonia 
not exceeding 0*322. This induced me not to place 
dependence upon it as being the correct standard of 
the strength of the liquor made at those works. From 
one description of coal (Appleby's) I obtained 0*748 
per cent, of sulphate of ammonia, or rather less than 
12 oz. per gallon. From another sample (Cooper's 



SPECIAL MANURES. 73 

Silkstones) the mean of five trials gave 1*254 per cent., 
OF about 1 lb. 4 oz. per gallon : this, it must be re- 
membered, is sulphate of ammonia — not pure ammonia, 
of which we are speaking. Now, if the reader refers to 
page 24, he will find that 100 lbs. of sulphate of ammonia 
contain 54^ lbs. of sulphuric acid, 31 ^ lbs. of water, 
and not quite 14^ lbs. of ammonia ; worth, in the 
market, from ISa. to IBs. per cwt., or about Ifrf. per lb. 
Now, 10 gallons of gas-liquor may be bought for less 
than sixpence, and as this quantity of liquor will weigh 
rather more than 100 lbs., and contains about 2| lbs. of 
pure ammonia, it is more than equal to the quantity 
contained in 15| lbs. of sulphate of ammonia, which, at 
If d per lb., would cost 2«. 8d. True, the sulphuric acid 
would be absent, but this could easily be remedied, 
either by adding the acid itself, or by the use of gypsum 
or sulphate of iron (green copperas), at the cost of a 
few pence. But it must be borne in mind that gas- 
liquor contains ammonia in several states of combination, 
one of which is poisonous to plants, viz., sulphuret of 
ammonium; and therefore this compound requires to 
be altered in the liquor before using. This may be 
effected in several ways: but the plan I generally adopt, 
as the most simple, is to mix equal weights of salt, green 
copperas, and spent gas lime together, turning them well 
over for several weeks before using; I then mix them 
with the liquor, applying at the rate of about a pound 
per gallon. By this means, the insoluble sulphuret 
of iron is precipitated, and the liquor deprived of the 
greater portion of its caustic properties.* In using 



* This is the mode of preparing gas-liquor I would recommend when 
ife is required for use in compost-heaps (see <mte, p. 60). 



74 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADB EAST. 

gas-liquor in its ordinary liquid form, it should always 
be mixed with four or five times its quantity of water, 
and may then be applied at the rate of 100 to 150 
gallons of the liquor per acre ; i. e., 150 gallons of gas- 
liquor and 600 gallons of water; and if the farmer 
dissolves 2 cwt. of salt in this quantity, its value will be 
greatly enhanced. Treated in this manner, gas-liquor 
is worth Id, to l^df. per gallon, and will pay the farmer 
for leading five or six miles. When applied in its 
crude state, it scorches up the plant, and if used in 
excess, destroys it. For grass land, it sliould be applied 
in the quantity before stated, by means of a liquid- 
manure drill, or water-cart, with a proper spreader, 
about the latter end of March or the beginning of April. 
It will be found to destroy worms, grubs, slugs, and 
insects, and will impart a green, healthy appearance to 
the grass, its effects being visible for several years after- 
wards. Stock prefer feeding where it has been used, 
and have been found to do bett^ upon it. A friend of 
the author^s (a scientific farmer), who used it prepared 
in the above way, some years since, declares that his 
land has been in better heart, and produced richer crops 
ever since; and when his stock are turned into that 
field, they, to this day, pick out the spot where it was 
applied, and continue to feed upon it exclusively until 
eaten quite bare. But by far the most profitable use to 
which the farmer can apply gas-liquor is, to prepare 
it as before directed, and mix it with his dung and 
compost heaps. 

Gas Lime is a mixture of carbonate of lime and the 
sulphuret of calcium, containing, also, a quantity of 
caustic lime ; it also contains a considerable proportion 
of cyanogen^ which alone prevents its being used in the 



SPECIAL MANURES. 75 

manufacture of sulphuric acid. When newly made, it 
is injurious to vegetation, owing to the alkaline sul- 
pburets contained in it. But after being exposed for 
some time to the atmosphere, the sulphuret of calcium 
absorbs oxygen, and sulphate of lime (gypsum) is formed, 
and it may then be applied not only with safety but 
with advantage. It is especially useful in promoting 
the growth of clover, sainfoin, vetches, and all green 
crops where gypsum has been found to be useful. When 
mixed with salt, at the rate of one cwt. of the latter to 
four of the former, a double decomposition takes place, 
and sulphate of soda (Glauber salts) and sulphate of 
lime are formed : this, when mixed with about six or 
seven times its weight of coal-ashes and soil, and turned 
over occasionally for six months, forms a very cheap and 
valuable fertilizer for grass land and all artifical grasses. 
Gas Tar is a most complex, but highly useful sub- 
stance, and, from its strong antiseptic qualities, is 
extensively used as a paint for rough outdoor purposes* 
When mixed with gravel, ashes, and a little quicklime, 
to about the consistency of stiff mortar, it forms a 
valuable substance for garden-walks, footpaths, stable 
and barn floors.* When mixed with broken stones, for 
road-making, it causes them to combine more firmly, so 
that, after a time, they become a solid mass. It is 
highly inflammable, and, upon distillation, yields mineral 
naphtha in considerable quantity ; it also produces what 
is called light oil, so extensively used in preserving 
timber, and the residuum left is a black resinous mass, 

* When iised for this latter purpose, time Bhould be given for it to 
divest itself of the unpleasant smell arising ; nor should the floor be 
used for some time, as it might impart that smell to the com or other 
material deposited upon it. 



76 SCIENTIFIC FABMINQ MADE EAST. 

known as mineral pitch. If applied as follows, it makes 
a cheap and durable floor for stables, cowsheds, and 
pigsties: — Break up a sufficient quantity of stones, 
brick-rubbish, &c., and spread them about three inches 
thick ; upon this run a thin mixture of gas tar and coal 
ashes, in such a state of consistency as will enable it to 
flow freely into all the interstices ; spread it evenly, and, 
after standing twenty-four hours, riddle over it a little 
fine sand or coal ashes, and roll it down. In two or 
three days it will set and become hard, and impervious to 
moisture, and forms the most durable and cheapest floor 
that I know of. As to its value as a manure, I am not 
sufficiently well informed to enable me to speak posi- 
tively. Mr. Morton, in the "Cyclopaedia of Agri- 
culture,'^ p. 964, gives the following as a " particular 
instance which came under the writer (J. T. W.)'s 
attention. A quantity of gas tar ^ — the precise quantity 
is not stated — " was dug into the trenches,^ between^ 
rows of potatoes, " before the sets were planted ; and 
not only did the crop escape the ravages of the disease, 
which destroyed others not so treated, but the potatoes 
were extremely well -grown and of excellent quality. 
This result was attributed to the antiseptic properties of 
the coal tar. The changes which tar undergoes when 
distributed through the soil are not known ; but if, as 
is most probable, it is ultimately decomposed,* it would 
act simply in furnishing a supply of carbon to the roots 
of plants, being practically destitute of nitrogen or 
mineral ingredients.^^ Considering the antiseptic pro- 



* I am institating a series of experiments in order to determine this 
£acty and if ready in time^ the results shall appear in the Appendix to 
this work. 



8PSCIAL MANURES. 77 

perties of coal tar, it appears quite conclusive to me 
that it might be applied with great advantage as a 
preventive, if not an absolute remedy for foot-rot in 
sheep, and, being inexpensive (about 2d. per gallon), 
nothing can be easier than its application for this pur- 
pose. A pen might be made in the ordinary way, 
surrounded by a few bricks put together with clay or 
earth, so as to prevent the escape of the tar, and the 
sheep passed through it, allowing them to stand for a 
few minutes, so as to enable it to penetrate sufficiently. 
This tank need not be more than three inches deep, and 
the sheep would march out with a pair of well-blacked 
boots, which I am clearly of opinion would do them no 
harm, but would prevent this most troublesome calamity, 
to which they are so liable on wet lands. 

Lime*. — That lime is a valuable fertilizer is a well- 
established fact ; but its precise action is, even to this 
day, but imperfectly known. The clay-land farmer 
uses it not only to improve the texture of his soil, by 
loosening and rendering it more friable, and conse- 
quently more easily worked ; but he also finds that it pro- 
duces heavier and better crops of both wheat and roots. 
The light-land farmer uses it for a different reason, viz., 
because both his white and green crops are rendered 
more luxuriant and sweeter by its application ; and 
further, he finds it greatly to assist him in keeping his 
land clean, and it also enables him to rid himself more 
easily of that abominable weed, couch-grass. Indeed, 
upon all soils and all crops it acts beneficially in one way 
or another; and hence its general adoption. The chemical 
action of lime may be said to be of a fourfold nature :— 
1. All plants require lime in building up their structure, 
seeing that lime is found in the ashes of all plants, and 



78 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

in some of them it is present in large quantities ; there- 
fore, lime furnishes a portion of their food. 2. Lime 
sweetens the sour soils, by combining with the acids 
they contain ; and hence that sourness is removed. 3. 
Lime possesses the power of dissolving or decomposing 
vegetable matter; and, by this process, the vegetable 
matter contained in soils is gradually rendered soluble, 
and thus fitted to feed the growing plant. 4. Lime 
exercises a similar action upon the mineral particles of 
the soil, and so fits them also for entering into the roots 
of growing plants. It is the usual practice to apply 
lime to the soil in its caustic state, as, by so doing, its 
action is quicker ; but this is open to one great objec- 
tion, viz., when so applied, it is more difficult to apply 
it evenly ; and further, it does not become so intimately 
mixed with the soil as it would if thrown on in the 
finely-powdered state to which it is reduced by slaking. 
It also exercises a more beneficial influence when mixed 
with one-third of its weight of salt. Seeing that lime 
has a natural tendency to sink, it should never be 
ploughed in deeply, but should be kept as near the 
surface of the soil as possible ; besides, in this way, it 
has a better chance of destroying slugs, grubs, &c. 

For peaty soils and heavy clay lands, however, I would 
advise lime to be applied in its caustic state ; but, in 
doing this, I would first screen it, and apply the finer 
particles to such soils, and reserve the larger lumps for 
slaking and applying to other descriptions of land, 
particularly hill pastures, &c. The beneficial action of 
lime is felt to a much greater extent upon dry or well- 
drained land than upon wet or imperfectly-drained soils. 
If land has not been limed for a considerable number of 
years, a large dose may be requisite^ — say, 150 bushels 



SPECIAL MANDBBS. 79 

per acre ; and in this case, ten to twelve bushels per acre 
will be sufficient, if added every rotation : moreover, 
between each application the soil should receive two 
good heavy dungings with farmyard manure : by this 
process the land would always be kept in good heart. 
When lime is intended to be used upon bare fallow, it 
should be applied in autumn, immediately before sowing 
wheat ; but if intended for a green crop fallow, it should 
be put on immediately before the grain crop is sown in 
spring; and the stronger the soil, the larger the quantity 
of lime required. *'The best indication to the farmer 
that he must l)egin to re-lime his land, is the appearance 
of the corn marigold, general weediness of the surface 
when laid down to grass, and, above all, an increased 
tendency to run to couch-grass.'' — (Morton's Cyclopaedia 
of Agriculture.'^ 

The question, as to how far it may be expedient 
to use lime with farmyard dung, is still unsettled. 
For my own part, I am inclined to think that the 
practice is not so dangerous as some are disposed to 
imagine : I readily admit that to mix lime and farmyard 
dung together in the open air would be highly preju- 
dicial, as the whole of the ammonia would be thereby 
dissipated ; nor do I think that they could be beneficially 
used together upon light lands ; but I really think that 
they may be ploughed in together upon strong clay 
soils with advantage, as the power of clay to absorb and 
retain ammonia is well known ; and therefore I consider 
it most probable that whatever ammonia the lime might 
set free, the soil above would absorb and retain ; while 
the other parts of the dung would become more tho- 
roughly decomposed, and rendered more fit for being 
taken up by the roots. 



80 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

" Lime," observes the author previously quoted, " is 
found to act in a remarkable degree upon the turnip 
crop. Land that has never been limed, or which has 
not been so for a great number of years, either refuses to 
grow turnips, or, if they do grow, they are always sadly 
injured ultimately by the disease called ^ fingers and 
toes.' We have seen so many instances of this disease 
being removed by lime, that we cannot look upon it in 
any other light than as a sovereign specific in all cases of 
the same nature. We may, no doubt, produce the 
* finger and toe '* disease by a too frequent repetition of 
turnips on the same field, although even recently limed ; 
but, had it not been limed, under such circumstances the 
disease would have been much more virulent.*" 

Quality of Lime. — Lime, like everything else, difi^ers 
in quality ; and this arises either from the nature of the 
stone from which it is made, or from the fact of its 
bejng well or badly burnt. A good limestone, well 
burnt, ought to lose about half its weight in burning, 
and ought to gain about one-third its weight again 
upon slaking. From this it will at once be seen that a 
bushel of lime is not always a bushel of lime, but a 
bushel of lime and limestone mixed, the latter part being 
next to valueless. It is, therefore, plain that a farmer 
had better pay a higher price for lime that will slake 
readily, and nearly all fall, than pay half the price for 
such as will not more than two-thirds fall. Besides, 
badly-burnt lime always weighs heavier, and, as we have 
just stated, limestone ought to lose about one-half its 
weight upon burning ; therefore the more imperfectly it 
is burnt, the heavier it weighs; consequently, the heavier 
the weight per bushel, the worse the quality of the 
article. The best way for a farmer is to purchase his 



SOKE MA NURBS. 81 

liifie bj the chaldion of 36 bushels. Nothing is easier 
than to detect the difference between well and badly- 
burnt lime: if a bushel of each of the two kinds be 
slaked, and the unslakable residues weighed, the differ- 
ence will at once determine their relative values. 

Lime has been termed a means of ^^ enriching the 
father and beggaring the son/' in consequence of its ren- 
dering active in a short time all latent permanently fer- 
tilissing substances in the soil; and thus, if used largely, 
it wiU very speedily exhaust them. I mention this in 
order to show the danger of using it too profusely, or 
without following it up with heavy dressings of farm- 
yard dung. 

3oii£:s.«^If those persons who are in the habit of 
aneeidng tt science, when compared with practice, will 
only for. B few minutes turn their attention to bones, they 
will find the laugh not altogether on their side. In my 
endeavcNirs to obtain the best possible information upon 
the subject of bones as manure, I have got together a 
colkotjon of books sufficient to form, by themselves, no 
inoonsiderable library. I find bones incidentally men- 
tioned as far back as IT^O, prior to which period I can 
diseovep no allusion to them. It might, perhaps, gratify 
tbe curiosity of some, but could serve no useful purpose, 
wered to give extracts from any works of a date earlier 
than 1812; I shall, therefore, pass over the whole 
period from 1770 to 181S, prior to which bones were 
laid in ruts and broken by cart-wheels, chopped with 
hatchets, or broken by hammers. But, in 1812, Mr. 
Stricklaaid informs us that they were applied in a broken 
state to the extent of from 60 to 70 bushels per acre, at 
a cost of S«. per busheL It may, however, be stated as 
a singular &ct9 that about the year .1740 the value of 

6 



82 SCIENTIFiq FARMING MADE EAST. 

bones as a fertilizer was made known by accident ; it 
thus happened : — 

The cutlers of Sheffield, who used bones largely in 
the manufacture of handles for knives and forks, threw 
the refuse of their turnings, scrapings, and planings, into 
large heaps, and these remained undisturbed for a long 
time, until they became putrefied. At length one of 
these heaps required to be moved to make way for 
some new buildings about to be erected, and the bone 
refuse was carted away as rubbish. By mere accident it 
was spread upon grass-land, when its fertilizing efiect 
was such as to ^^ astonish the natives ;^ but, even then, 
they little thought it was owing to the waste which had 
been spread upon the land, and not a few of the good 
folks attributed it to some grand manurial agent behw 
the surface^ before unknown ; accordingly, with that 
enterprising spirit which has always characterized Shef- 
field people, they at once began to dig for more of it, 
but not finding it there, they came to the natural con- 
clusion that the extraordinary crops produced (for by 
this time there were more than one of them) had been 
occasioned by the heap of ^^ rubbish ^ which had been 
spread about. Of course the experiment was repeated^ 
and thence the value of bones as a fertilizer became an 
established fact. The demand rapidly increased, and 
extensive researches were made in the neighbourhood of 
Sheffield; old pits and holes which had been filled up 
with this material, then considered valueless, were re- 
opened, and large excavations made, in order to recover 
every particle of this valuable fertilizing materiaL 
About the year 1814, machinery was first used for 
crushing bones, by, I believe, Mr. Legard, of Ganton, 
on the wolds of Yorkshire, and the success attending 



BONE MANURES. 83 

this operation, imperfect as it then was, led to further 
improvements ; steam-power was at length applied^ and 
the crushing of bones became an established trade. 

Space will not permit of my extending this short 
account of the introduction of bones as a fertilizer ; I 
will, therefore, at once proceed to speak of their proper- 
ties. This would be an easy task were all bones composed 
of the same constituents, in the same proportions ; but 
this is by no means the case, seeing that they contain less 
earthy matter when young than when old. The quantity 
of carbonate of lime which they contain also varies mate- 
rially. The following analysis of the bones of an ox may 
be taken as containing their average constituents. 

Cartilage • 33*3 per cent. 

Phosphate of lime 55*35 „ 

Fluate of lime 3*0 „ 

CSarbonate of lime 3*85 ,, 

Phosphate of magnesia 3'05 ,, 

Soda and a small portion of common salt 2*45 „ 

Human bones, particularly those of young children, 
differ very materially from this analysis; but as human 
bones are not usually ground up for manure, so far as I 
knoW) we will not stay to examine them. The value of 
bones as manure in their raw state (we shall speak of 
boiled bones hereafter) may be thus defined : first, in 
the cartilage they contain, which is very rich in nitrogen, 
inasmuch as 100 lbs. of cartilage will furnish, on decom- 
position, 22 lbs. of ammonia ; and as one-third of the 
whole weight of raw bones of average quality, as shown 
by the above table, is composed of cartilage, 100 lbs. of 
raw bones contains nearly 7 lbs. 4^ oz. of ammonia ; this 
also contains carbonic acid and sulphur in a state of 
combination before decomposition. Further, it will be 

Q 2 



84 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

seen by the foregoing table that bones contain more than 
. half their weight of phosphate of lime, and also phos- 
phate of magnesia, the value of which we have before 
shown (see p. 86). It is, therefore, clearly manifest that 
bones in their raw state are rich in every ingredient re- 
quired as food for plants. But, when boiled, or in what 
is called ^^ the dry state,^ this is not so; as by the process 
of boiling they lose the whole of the cartilage, and are 
consequently deprived of nearly all the ammonia they con- 
tain. And, as they are generally used in the dry state in 
the manufacture of super-phosphate, the action of this 
manure is greatly assisted by ammoniacal compounds. 
There are many substances soluble in water, when 
broken into small particles, which are insoluble iif their 
perfect state. Bone is one of them, glass is another: a 
wine-glass may be immersed in water for any length of 
time without being dissolved, but put it into a mortar 
and reduce it to powder, and it will lose a portion of 
its weight every time fresh water is added to it; its 
insolubility in the first instance is owing solely to its 
mechanical texture; but when powdered, this mechanical 
texture is destroyed, and it becomes soluble; so it is 
with bones, — and hence their more immediate action tlie 
'finer they are ground. If bones were readily soluble, 
and they could be evenly spread, so as to give the plant 
the full benefit of their constituents, half a hundred- 
weight would be amply sufficient for an acre of wheat ; 
but this is not so in practice, and therefore a larger 
quantity is necessary. By boiling bones, as I have 
before observed, the gelatine and fatty matter is ex- 
tracted, and this, although it diminishes their fertilizing 
properties, renders them more ready to submit to the 
action of the atmosphere and water; and thus the 



BOHE manures/ 85 

fertilizing substances which remain come more imme- 
diately into action, and they are, therefore, often pre- 
ferred as a manure, particularly for turnips, where the 
great object is to force the young plant into broad 
leaf, so as to escape the ravages of the fly. The same 
Yemark, indeed, which is applicable to bones, applies 
equally to every other manure, — the more soluble it is 
the more readily is it taken up and assimilated by plants, 
and therefore the more rapid its action. This fact will 
account for the great estimation in which super-phos- 
phate, or dissolved bone, is held.* 

On dissolving bones by the agency of sulphuric acid, 
their mechanical structure is destroyed, and their earthy 
constituents are rendered so soluble as to be easily taken 
up by plants, and become immediately available. In 
addition to this, sulphuric acid is in itself a valuable 
fertilizer, for it enters largely into the constituents of 
some plants, particularly swedes and cabbage (see antei 
p. 87), and, moreover, it has the eflFect of rendering 
other fertilizing substances in the soil soluble, while it 
has also the power of fixing carbonate of ammonia, by 
converting it into a sulphate, which, though readily 
soluble in water, is not volatile, like the former. 

The high estimation in which dissolved bones are 
justly held has so greatly increased their consumption, 



* The credit of the disfsoverj of dissolving bones is generally ac^ 
corded to Baron Liebig^ — ^with what justice I must leave others to 
determine: but I find by the Aimales de Vlndustrie of 1824, that 
M. Daroety at Paris, was engaged in the same operation. He sub- 
mitted raw bones for some hours to ebullition in boiling water, to 
remove the fat, after which they were treated with dilute muriatic acid, 
to dissolve the phosphate of lime and magnesia and the carbonate oS. 
lime ; but whether he applied these as manure \a not «>\^\a^« 



86 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

that there is scarcely a town of any note throughout the 
kingdom, that does not contain a '* super-phosphate 
manufactory/^ Now, this manufacture opens a very 
wide field for adulteration ; and as many there be, un- 
fortunately, who do not feel themselves bound to conduct 
their business upon strictly honest principles, and who 
are content to sell an inferidr article rather than none at 
all, such men do not hesitate to take advantage of that 
patent weakness of all farmers for cheap bargains,*" and 
consequently, do not hesitate to mix this so-called super- 
phosphate with all manner of rubbish, so as to enable 
them to undersell the respectable manufacturer. For 
this there is but one remedy of a really practical nature, 
and that is to deal with none but parties well known for 
the honesty and integrity of their dealings. In offering 
this caution to farmers, I can assure them that adultera^ 
tion, in both raw and boiled bones, as well as super- 
phosphate, is carried on to a much greater extent than 
they are aware of. I was told a short time back by the 



* A manufiusturer of an excellent artificial manure complained, the 
other day, to the author, that in his trade it was hardly worth while to 
be honest : for he found that the manures produced by certain other 
makers, which he knew from analysis to be vastly inferior to his own, 
were just as readily bought by the formers at the same price. In 
illustration of this, I will mention a fact that came under my own 
observation in a Yorkshire market. I saw a respectable manu&cturer 
of super-phosphate, whose article I had examined, and knew to be 
genuine, offer it to a fanner with whom he had done business for eight 
or nine years ; but the latter objected, as he thought the price (£7 per 
ton) was too high. Shortly after an agent offered him a super-phoa- 
phate for £6 per ton. He forthwith bought of him seven tons. I 
procured a sample from the bulk, analyzed it, and found it to contain, 
among other matters, 67'53 per cent, of gypsum, worth in that market 
lOf. 6d, per ton« 



BONB MANURES. 87 

proprietor of some extensive gypsum quarries, that his 
best customers were the super-phosphate manufacturers 
and bone-crushers. This fact is pregnant with warning 
to farmers.* But if, after all that can be said, any man 
will be so foolish as to risk his root-crops for the sake of 
saving some six or eight shillings per acre, he has no 
one to blame but himself, and nothing but bitter expe- 
rience will teach him better. If, however, he must have 
a low-priced article, let him purchase a smaller quantity 
of the very best, from a manufacturer of established 
reputation, and adulterate it himself; he is quite as 
capable of doing this as the manufacturer, and at less 
cost. A few cwts. of sifted ashes, a bag or two of gyp- 
sum, a sack of sawdust and another of salt, ^nd the job 
is done. With these at hand he may lower a good 
manure down to a bad one. By this plan, too, he may 
at once convince himself of the comparative values of 
the good and bad article, by simply testing their effects 
upon a few square yards of the same soil and crop, using 
weight for weight, and afterwards weighing the produce, 
and calculating the money-value of each. 

In order to show how greatly the super-phosphates of 
commerce vary in their composition, the following ana- 
lyses of three samples {vide Sibson^s Agricultural Che» 
mistry^ p. 181) have been selected from numerous others 
made at the Agricultural College at Cirencester : — 

* A bone-orosher remarked in my heariDg the other day, " Why, 
If we can't make a little money out of these fellows, who are we to 
make it out of! They beat us down to the lowest fitrthlDg, and after 
taking six or twelve months' credit, they never pay without grumbling, 
and saying the 8tu£f * did them no good/ " 



88 SCIENTIFIC FABMIMG MADE EASY. 

OOm^OSll^ION OF SUPER-PflOSPHATB OP lilMl!. 

No. 1. Ko.2i No. 8. 

Water 20'63 1440 91 

Organic matter 14*76 8*93 — 

Soluble phosphate of lime 10-81 8*60 25-70 

equal to bone earth ..(16 09) (5*61) (40*11) 

Insoluble bone phosphate .... 17*72 6*83 6*68 
Hyd rated sulphate of lime 

(gypsum) 28-39 44*23 55*43 

Alkaline salts ; 1*56 2*52 *96 

Sand 6-78 19*50 2*33 

100*00 100-00 100*00 

mmmmm^i^mmt i n i ■ 

Per<cent^ge of nitrogen .... '853 1*44 *-r 

equal to ammonia 1*0^5 1*75 -^ 

^' No. 1 may be ax^repted as an example of a good super- 
phosphate : it contains about a third of its weight of 
phosphate of lime, one half of which is rendered soluble 
by acid; the other half of this phosphate may be re- 
garded as unchanged bone material, and, provided the 
manure has been made from bones, this ipsoUible jdios* 
phate of lime will be of the same value in the soil as 
bone-dust ; but if, as often happens^ mineral phosphate 
of lime has been used in the manufacture, this quantity 
left unchanged will be worthless, or tiearly so, when 
applied to the land. The essential material is» in all 
cases, the phosphate of lime, soluble in water, and the 
value of the sample is chiefly regulated by the propor-* 
tion of this material. The organic matter — the more or 
less altered gelatine of the bones — depends for its value 
on the nitrogen it contains, or the ammonia it is capable 
of producing by decay.* 



T- 



* The following table will show the Talues per ton of the whole of 
the ingredients contained in the foregoing analysis, and may be taken 



BOKB lUNURES. 89 

" No. 2 is altogether the reverse of No. 1 . It contains 
but a small quantity of soluble phosphate, and very 
little insoluble ; an undue quantity of gypsum, and far 
too much sand. This is an adulterated super-phosphate, 
and is worth but a fraction of the price charged for it. 
From these examples it will be seen that the value of a 
super-phosphate entirely depends on its quality, and, in 
most cases, on the proportion of soluble phosphate of 
lime it contains. Thus, a sample like No. S is not dear 
at £12f because it contains £12 worth of fertilizing 
materials ; whereas sample No. 2 would be dear at £5. 
It should always be remembered by farmers in purchasing 
super-phoi^ate, and, indeed, all other kinds of artificial 
mixtul*e8^ that the deamess or cheapness of a manure is 
not determined by its price, but by the amount of fer- 
tilizing materials it contains, and the degree of fitness 
of these materials for action in the soil.'^ 

Seeing the extent to which adulteration is practised 
by super^phosphate makers, in common with many other 
artificial-manure dealers, the farmer may perhaps feel 
inclined to manufacture bis own super-phosphate ; and 
this he may do both easily and profitably by attending 



as represeoting the value of those materials in whatsoever analysis 

they may appear. 

Organic matter £1 per ton. 

Soluble phosphate , • . . 33 

Insoluble phosphate'" 7 

Sulphate of limis. V. .'. . . ...... ..... .... . . 1 

Alkaline salts 1 

Ammoniaf 56 



. * If there be mineral phosphates, they are nearly worthless, 
t This is pure ammonia, not the ammonias of commerce, which are always 
oomUned with an acid. ^ 



90 SCIENTIFIC FARMIlfO MADE EAQIT. 

to the following directions. The most economical way is 
to begin some months before it is wanted ; for though 
bones may be rapidly dissolved by means of sulphuric 
acid, that is both a somewhat dangerous and expensive 
process. Bones, though not readily dissolved by water, 
yield rapidly to the action of common salt when mixed 
with urine, gas-liquor, or any of the salts of ammonia. 
Let us suppose a farmer to require bones for his turnip 
crop in the spring ; let him lay in his stock of bone-dust, 
say 2 cwt. per acre, in the December previous. Let 
him mix these in a shed, or any covered place, with the 
same weight of salt, and to this add SO bushels of finely*- 
sifted coal- ashes, and water them with gas-liquor, or 
liquid manure from his tank, if he have one, and turn 
them over every week or ten days : the quantity of liquor 
to use should be as much as they will absorb. This pro- 
cess, repeated for three months, will reduce them to a 
proper state, and, by the time they are required for use, 
he will have, at least so far as bones are concerned, a 
sufficient supply to procure him an excellent crop. And 
liow let us see the cost per acre* 

2 cwt. bone-dust, at Qs, 6d 013 

2 cwt. salt, at l9 2 

20 bushels ooal ashes, at 1(2 • 1 8 

40 gallons of gas-liquor, at 1(2. • • • .0 3 4 

£10 
Labour, say 3 

£18 

Here, it will be seen, at a cost of £1 . 3«., a farmer may 
supply himself with a sufficient quantity of super-phos- 
phate for an acre of either swedes, turnips, or man^ds^ 



BOKE MANURES* 91 

and if he only take care that his bone»dust is genuine,* 
he has no occasion to fear adulteration* 

If, however, as is too frequently the case, the farmer 
will not ** take time by the forelock,*^ and look out 
ahead, but prefers waiting till the last moment, even 
then I would recommend him to dissolve the bones he 
may require, sooner than trust to the uncertain com- 
pound he often purchases, as before mentioned. For this 
purpose, time being short, he will be obliged to have 
recourse to sulphuric acid. And here again he is likely 
enough to be imposed upon ; and, as no article varies 
more in point of strength, it will be necessary for him to 
be very particular in making his purchase. He should 
therefore be careful in ascertaining its specific gravity. 
If under 1720, it is not worth |d. per lb. ; if 1-840, 
he may give l|d. per lb. for it, that being about the 
market price for acid of that strength. Having procured 
his materials, he should proceed as follows : — In a large 
square tub, say 5 ft. wide by 2 ft. 6 in. broad, and 2 ft. 
deep (lined with lead), the bones should be spread 
evenly, and upon them should be poured half their 
weight of water, if hot all the better; after steeping 
for 24 hours, then pour on the same quantity of acid ; 
viz., half the weight of the bones. These should now 
remain 36 hours at least, and be stirred at intervals 
during the time, when they should be taken out and 
mixed with ashes to such an extent as will make them 
sufficiently dry for drilling. The more they are stirred 
while under acid the better, and the more thoroughly 
they are mixed with the ashes the better also ; as, by so 
doing, the whole mass becomes more thoroughly incor-* 

* See Appendix B for the means of detectlog adulteration in bone-dust* 



92 SCIENTIFIC FARMIHG MADE EAST. 

porated. Altbougb this method of preparing super- 
phosphate is more expensive than the former, I am 
inclined to think that it is, for the generality of soils, 
preferable, seeing that the sulphuric acid added is in 
itself valuable, as it forms an important constituent in 
all crops, but is often very deficient in soils, parti- 
cularly in chalk lands, where, by setting free the 
carbonic acid, it enables plants to absorb it for their own 
benefit specially ; and it also acts beneficially by dis- 
solving other substances in the soil necessary to vegetable 
nutrition. 

On the purchase of bones a few hints may not be 
without their value. The smaller the sizes into which 
bones are crushed, the greater their commercial value, — 
not only on account of their greater weight per budiel, 
but on account of their more immediate action. And 
as a much greater amount of labour is required to 
reduce bones to powder than to break them into half- 
inch sizes, the extra price charged for bone-dust is not 
Xo be complained of. A bushel of bone-dust usually 
weighs 3 or 4 lbs. more than a bushel of half-inch. 
Now, in the process of crushing half-inch bones, a 
portion of dust is obtained at the same time. It is by 
no means an uncommon practice for the crusher, by 
the use of sieves, to take as much of these smaller 
particles out of the mass as possible, as by this means 
he diminishes the weight without decreasing the bult 
in like proportion ; so that, in the purchase of SO 
quarters of bones, the farmer is really tricked out of 
about 5 cwt. of their best portion, and yet he gets full 
m^sure for his money. If in purchasing bones the 
farmer is led to believe that he is fairly receiving thenr 



BONE MANURBS. 93 

small and large together, this is little better than a 
£raud ; if, however^ he orders half*inch, he has no right 
to complain if he gets what we have described above. 
Whenever crushed bones are quoted a little under the 
market price, the farmer may be sure that this system 
of sharp practice is about to be tried on. The bone- 
crusher buys all his bones by weight, and there is no 
reason why he should not sell them in the same way. 
To buy by the ton, and sell by the quarter, bears the 
impress of fraud upon the face of it ; and it is a prac- 
.tice that should be repudiated by every farmer. A fair 
price for the labour of crushing, and a reasonable profit 
upon the article, none can object to; but every one 
must condemn a system originating in duplicity, and 
continued in deception. 

Some bone-crushers have the audacity to state that 
the finer particles are not so valuable as the coarse, 
inasmuch as they contain all the sand and other impu- 
rities, and moreover, are chiefly composed of the softer 
portions of the bones, and such of the old bones as are 
parjtially decayed. This is simply untrue, as the phos- 
phate of lime is &und in the largest proportion in the 
interior or softer part of the bone, and in the car- 
tilaginous parts towards the surface ; and it has been 
found that, after bones have been ground tolerably fine 
and sifted, the dust that falls is richer in phosphate of 
lime than the larger portion remaining. In fact, the 
dust contains more phosphate of lime than half-inch 
bones, weight for weight, or measure for measure. The 
advice I offer to farmers, is to buy their bones in tlie 
rough by weight, and stipulate for the price of crushing 
a certain size ; then bargain to have the whole produce, 



94 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

both fine and coarse. If under tbe circumstances fraud 
is practised, tbe crime is punishable, and the purchaser 
has his remedy at law. 

Coprolite is another material containing a large 
portion of phosphate of lime ; but its use alone would 
be next to valueless, seeing that, as a mineral phosphate, 
it is all but insoluble in water. It is, however, exten* 
sively used in the manufacture of super-phosphate, the 
action of sulphuric acid being such as to render the 
phosphates it contains soluble, and fit for promoting 
the growth of plants. But it is inferior to bones, even 
for this purpose, seeing that it is destitute of any 
organic constituents capable of producing nitrogen ; con- 
sequently its use is exclusively confined to the manufac- 
ture of super-phosphate. It is, however, rather richer in 
phosphate of lime than any bones that have come under 
my notice. 

Wood Ashes. — It is a matter of surprise that wood 
ashes, containing so large an amount of fertilizing con- 
stituents as they have been found to possess, should be 
recklessly wasted to the extent they are. They possess 
all the mineral ingredients required in the production of 
new wood, and most of those required for- the growth of 
cereals. In addition to the potash they contain, they 
are especially rich in phosphates, though these vary 
considerably in different kinds of timber. As a general 
rule, the ashes of the oak are of the least, and those of the 
beech of the greatest value — the ashes of oak containing 
only about 6 per cent, of phosphate, while those of the 
beech have been found to yield as much as 20 per cent, of 
their whole weight of this valuable fertilizer. The ashes 
of the fir and the pine contain from 10 to 15 per cent, of 
phosphate* While 100 lbs. of the washed ashes of the 



MANURES — ASHES* 96 

beech contain as muqh of the same material as is to be 
found in 4 cwt. of fresh human excrement, sufficient for 
the growth of 4,000 lbs. of wheat straw, or 2,000 lbs. of 
grain. — [L.P.] Morton^s Cyclopcedia^ p. 166. 

Coal ashes^ though not so valuable as those of wood, 
are still of great value to the farmer, as they all contain 
the leading inorganic compounds required as food for 
plants. Like wood ashes, they vary considerably in 
their qualities, according to the coal from which they 
are produced. However, this difference is of degree 
only, as they all contain lime, magnesia, sulphuric acid, 
alumina, oxide of iron, phosphoric acid, and silica.* 
They are found valuable as a top-dressing for leguminous 
crops ; and clover, vetches, and other artificial grasses 
are greatly benefited by their application, due, most 
probably, to the lime and sulphuric acid they contain ; 
they also possess the power of absorbing ammonia ; and 
the oxide of iron in their composition enables them to 
remove the offensive odour arising from night-soil, which 



* Coal ashes have been analyzed by Dr. Fowne {J(yur» JRay. A. S,, 
▼ol. It. p. 541), and found to contain — 

Ashes from Staffordsh. Newcastle 

coal. coal. 

Sandy matter and unbnmt charcoal . . 64*00 87*60 

Oxide of iron and manganese, alumina 

and some phosphoric acid 9*80 8*60 

Carbonate of lime (chalk) 12*80 I'OO 

Sulphate of lime (gypsum) 2*44 0*45 

Alkaline sulphate, with traces of chlo- 
ride, and sulphuret 0*40 1*26 

Water 8*80 4*60 

Loss 1-76 1-04 

These, mixed with a little oil, have been successfully drilled for 
turnips. 



96 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

should never be used without their being mixed with it. 
In addition to their fertilizing properties, they exercise 
a beneficial influence upon strong soils by their mechani- 
cal action, having a tendency to render it more friable 
and less difficult to work ; and, by opening the texture, 
to expose them more freely to the action of the sun 
and air. Upon light soils, their beneficial action is not 
so freelv admitted, and it is still doubtful whether their 
application is advantageous or not Limited space will 
not permit of my enlarging here upon this subject. All 
, who wish to be more fully informed thereon, should con- 
sult Morton's Cyctopiedia-j article ^' Ashes.^' 

ARTIFICIAL MANURES. 

The manufacture of artificial manures is now carried 
on to such an extent as to render it a matter of para- 
mount importance that the farmer should have some 
reliable guide to direct him in his purchases. 

In comparison with the number of plants with which 
botanists are said to be acquainted (some 150,000), there 
are but few from which we derive food, and these for the 
most part are grasses. Of these, none of them grow to 
perfection unaided : they all require culture and the 
assistance of man. There is no soil (or at least none 
with which I am acquainted) that is adapted to the pro- 
duction of these plants continuously without artificial 
help. The potato, for instance, indigenous to some 
portion of the coast of the South Pacific, in its natural 
state produces two crops per year; but, in point of 
quality, it is small in size, rank in flavour, and of a sad, 
hard, and waxy nature when boiled, and in every respect 
so inferior to that highly-esteemed esculent of British 



ARTIFICIAL MANURES. 97 

production, that hitherto it has not been much cultivated 
in its original soil as human food. Wheat, again, so far 
as I know, grows nowhere as a natural plant in the 
perfection produced by cultivation ; and hence we may 
infer that, originally, agriculture was found to be neces- 
sary to enable the soil to produce those plants requisite 
for the food of man and animals, instead of such as it 
would have produced naturally. As the plants required 
as food are but few in number, in comparison with such 
as the soil produces spontaneously, and as these are of a 
most exhaustive character, the soil requires to be con- 
tinually assisted by the application of manures. But as 
all plants do not exhaust the soil of the same substances, 
or to the same extent, it is perfectly clear that a correct 
knowledge of the means of altering the condition of the 
soil, so as to enable it to produce the plants required, 
may be considered the essence of skilled agriculture. 

The last twenty years have done much to promote 
the science of farming ; and the genial spirit in which 
agricultural improvements have been embraced by the 
more intelligent portion of the community engaged in 
such pursuits, has had the happy effect of greatly 
advancing our national prosperity. But it is to the 
appearance of Liebig's "Agricultural Chemistry,'' in 
1840, that we may attribute the complete revolution 
that has taken place in our farming operations. The 
few venial mistakes made by him are of trifling import, 
when compared with the immense amount of good he 
has conferred by his laborious investigations, and by 
his happy application of chemical knowledge to agri-r 
culture. No sooner did his work appear, than the egg 
of Columbus was found to stand on end, and one of the 
most notable consequences of the system he had so popu- 

H 



98 SCIENTIFIC FABMIFG MADE EAST. 

larly developed was, that all the world became manure^ 
makers. It is not my intention to devote much time or 
space in commenting upon the numerous and, for the 
most part, next to worthless compounds, which, from 
time to time, are introduced to the notice of farmers as 
artificial fertilizers. Yet, from ** the increasing demand 
for these manures, the general favour in which artificial 
fertilizers are now held ; the deficiencies of natural 
sources from which a really valuable manure can be 
prepared ; disregard for the difPerence of the practical 
efiects of a manure and its real money value ; and ihe 
difficulty of arriving, in a single season, at a positive 
conclusion with regard to its efficacy, and other dmilar 
circumstances, are fruitful causes of the shameful adul- 
terations in artificials of recognized value, and of the 
many inferior and worthless compounds which are found 
in the manure-market at the present time,^^ it becomes 
imperatively necessary that some efiectual check should 
be put upon practices not only reprehensible in them- 
selves, but disastrous in their consequences. 

Without particularizing any one of this numerous 
class of nearly valueless compounds, I shall content 
myself with a brief description of one or two of the 
most specious of these compositions—calculated, by 
their alluring titles, to lead the unwary farmer to enter- 
tain a very exaggerated opinion of their merits; par- 
ticularly when supported, as they usually are, by a long 
list of flattering testimonials ; and then proceed to the 
more agreeable task of commending such of those as 
are of well-ascertained value and uniform quality* 



* Voelcker'e Lecture. 



ARTIFICIAL MAKURES. 99 

Before proceeding, however, to the performance of 
this disagreeable duty, it is necessary to state that many 
artificial manures are actually bought and sold in the 
market at more than double the price, not only of what 
they are worth but at which they are manufactured 
with great profit, particularly such as are composed 
almost entirely of saline ingredients, which mostly contain 
from 30 to 40 per cent, of water. An artificial compound 
of this character was some time ago brought prominently 
under my notice by the receipt of a very plausible pro- 
spectus, with an unusual array of testimonials. This 
manure (like many others) professed to be a ^^ cheap 
substitute for guano,^' the cost being about £2 per ton 
less, and the quantity to be used per acre about one- 
third. As a general rule, I scrupulously avoid what is 
termed ^^ cheap and nasty j'^ upon principle ; but in this 
case, thinking it just possible that the manufacturer of this 
manure might have discovered something of which I was 
ignorant — some residue of a manufacture for instance, 
which had hitherto escaped my notice, and which might 
contain the large percentage of ammonia this composition 
was said to possess — I therefore determined to see what it 
was like; and in order to have a fair sample, I procured, 
through a friend in London, a cask of the article as 
though for practical use. On its receipt, I subjected 
one portion to a careful analysis myself, and forwarded 
another portion to a friend for a similar purpose, so 
that the operations of the one might check those of 
the other. The quantity analyzed by each party was 
35 lbs., and the average results are here given in lbs. 
per ton : — 



H 2 



100 



SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 



lbs. oz. 



lbs. 



Water in 35 lbs. 

Sulphate of lime and magnesia 

„ iron (green copperas) 

f, soda (Glauber salts) 

Bi-Bulphate soda 

„ potash 

Sulphate ammcHiia 

Sand 



2 4 pel 


•ton. 


784 


5 




20 


8 5 




532 


5 4 




336 


3 12 




240 


1 10 




104 


Ui 




58 


2 9i 




166 



35 



2240 



For this article, composed of the above-mentioned 
materials, and in the quantities above stated, the price 
charged to me was at the rate of £12 per ton. Let us 
now see what would be the wholesale cost of the re- 
spective materials used, in the market, if purchased at 
the present time. 

lbs. £* 8, d. 

Water 784 

Sulphate of lime and magnesia. . 20 3^ 

Green copperas 532 1 2 2 

Glauber salts 336 18 

Bi-eulphate soda 240 9 9 

Bisulphate potash 104 10 10 

Sulphate ammonia 58 7 3 

Sand 166 

£3 8 34 
Add for grinding and mixing, per ton . . 6 84 

£3 15 



How a compound containing only 5 per cent, of a 
weak salt of potash, and rather more than 2 J per cent, 
of sulphate of ammonia, without one grain of phosphate, 
can be considered as useful, either as a top-dresssing 
for wheat, or as a manure for turnips, I am at a loss to 
conceive. There are some soils, doubtless, upon which. 



ARTlflClAX MANtJftES. 101 

this manure might possibly have a beneficial effect ; but 
even supposing it to be very beneficial to every descrip- 
tion of soil and crop, still, composed of the ingredients 
above stated, and sold at the price charged, there can be 
no economy in using it, esp^ially as it could be well 
afforded for one-third of the sum. 

The following is a careful analysis of another of these 
highly-lauded fertilizers — the quantity tested being the 
same as before, and procured in like manner, the price 
charged being £8 per ton. 

lbs. oz. per ton. 

Water '..... in 85 lbs. 8 4 628 lbs. 

Sulphate of lime (gypsum) ...... ,, 7 13 500 „ 

Chloride of sodium (salt) „ 5 Hi 866 „ 

Sulphate magnesia (Epsom salts) . . „ 2 1} 135 ,, 

Organic matter (chiefly soot) „ 6 4| 403 ,, 

Insoluble mineral phosphate of 

lime (coprolite) „ 1 4 80 „ 

Insoluble silicious matter (sand) . . ,, 8 9 228 ,, 

lbs. 35 2240 „ 

The real money value of this mixture, which, as to 
its fertilizing powers, standi pretty much upon a par 
with its predecessor — indeed, rather below it, — may be 
estimated as follows : — 

lbs. £. «. d. 

Water .528 

Gypsum 500 4 6 

Salt 866 3 8 

Epsomsalts 135 6 6 

Soot 403 (19 bushels) at 8<2. 12 8 

Coprolite 80 8 6 

Sand 228 

£1 10 10 
Add for labour in mixing, &c. per ton . . 9 2 

£2 



102 8CIEKTIFIC FARMIKa MADS EAST. 

• 

In this, as in the former case, comment is superfluous^ 
and little better than an insult to the understanding ; 
yet still, from the avidity with which compounds o[ this 
character are bought, one would almost be inclined to 
fancy that the farmer took a pleasure in being cheated ; 
and verily, if he feel disposed to indulge in so expensive 
a luxury, he need not remain inactive for lack of oppor- 
tunity, seeing that every market is inundated with 
manure-agents anxious on all occasions to palm off 
wares, something like Hodge's razors, " made to sell,*' 
— ^and if so foolish as to buy, he cannot complain if he 
be often rather roughly shaved* 

The expense of a guinea for an analysis might save 
him pounds ; but this he considers a species of extra- 
vagance, and rather than incur it, he prefers to pay 
enormously for an article which he could easily prepare 
for less than one-third of the price. But my object in 
earnestly calling the attention of farmers to this ques- 
tion is really not so much to put them on their guard 
agiainst deception, as to impress upon their minds that 
they have within their own reach all the ingredients 
(with the exception of a few inexpensive materials) 
requisite for the growth of crops, if they will only 
husband and use them properly ; and by so doing they 
would require but little aid from the manure-maker. 
But the nature of the soil, as well as the kind of crop to 
be grown upon it, as I have already observed, must be 
duly considered, or else no beneficial result will be ob- 
tained ; for it is impossible to compound any one manure 
suited either for all crops or all soils. 

However numerous may be the class of puffing manu- 
facturers of nearly worthless fertilizers, it is some con- 
solatibn to know that there are, engaged in the pre- 



ARTIFICIAL MANURES* 103 

paration of artificial manures, men of sterling integrity, 
high principles, and scientific attainments, men who 
possess the requisite knowledge as well as the means 
and appliances to compound good articles, and the fair- 
ness to sell them at a reasonable profit. Men of this 
class do not puff their wares ; their manures do not 
require the adventitious aid of plausible testimonials ; 
and even if not always or immediately successful (Peru- 
vian guano, indeed, sometimes fails), their value is sure 
to manifest itself in the following crop. 

It is of great importance that the farmer should be 
enabled, from a published analysis, to form a correct 
estimate of the money value of a manure. And it is 
to be regretted that, owing to the fluctuations constantly 
taking place in the market, no really accurate table for 
this purpose can be prepared ; the following, however, 
may serve as a rough guide. 

T 

Table tor DSTSBHiNiNa the Monet Value op Abtificial 

Manubes.* 

{TJve prioea here given, we should obgerve, are eonnderabiy above the 

present market guotations,) 



1. Nitrogen in the form of ammonia Bd. per lb. 

2. Nitrogen in animal or yegetable 

substances 6d. „ 

8. Nitrate of soda 2d, „ 

4. Phosphate of lime (bone earth) . . Id, „ 

or phosphoric acid alone 2d. ,p 

5, Soluble phosphate of lime, or bi- 

phosphate of lime i^d. „ 42 



* Extracted from Professor Voelcker's lecture. 



Per ton. 


£. s. 


d. 


83 





56 





18 18 


4 


9 6 


8 


18 18 


4 



104 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

Per ton. 

6. Salts of potash IJeJ^perlb. 1113 4 

or potash alone 2(i „ 18 13 4 

7. Gypsum Id. per 10 lbs. 18 8 

8. Lime 1(2. per 12 lbs. 15 7 

9. Carbonate of lime (chalk) Id. per 25 lbs. 7 6 

10. Magnesia 1(2. per 10 lbs. 18 8 

11. Organic matter (humus) \d, per 20 lbs. 9 4 

12. Common salt 111. per 10 Ibe. 18 8 

Mb. NESBir's Estimates. 

Nitrogen at £ 7^ P^'' ^^n. 

Ammonia „ 60 „ 

Phosphate of lime ,, 8 „ 

,, „ made soluble .«..,, 24 ,^ 

Organic matter 1 ^ 

Alkaline salts. „ 1 ,, 

Sulphate of lime „ 1 „ 

Silica no value. 

Carbonate of lime no value. 

As there is a considerable discrepancy between the 
prices of some of the articles mentioned in the foregoing 
tables, the best way to estimate the approximate market 
value is to split the difference. 

The following table I have myself prepared, to show 
the value of the respective ingredients in the form they 
are mostly used in the manufacture of artificial manures, 
according to the present market price, their value being 
rather over than under stated. 

Sulphate of ammonia • . £ 14 per ton. 

f, soda (Glauber salts) 6 ,, 

,y magnesia (Epeom salts) .... 7 ,t 

„ iron (green copperas) 4 „ 

Soot 4 „ 

Soda ash 9 ,, 

Nitrate of potash (saltpetre) 37 „ 



MANURBS GUANO. 105 

Cubic petre (nitrate of sodft) £ 17 per ton. 

*Coprolite (mineral phosphate of lime) 5 f, 

Sulphuric acid, according to strength, viz. — Specific gravity 1*720, 
£5. IBs. per ton; 1*820, £7. 10«. per ton ; 1*845, £S. 58. per ton. 

GUANO. 

This important article, which now forms one of the 
principal items in the expenditure of nearly every farmer, 
is withal so various in its quality, that a standard by 
which to judge of its comparative value has become 
quite essential, and of paramount importance, in order 
to enable the purchaser to lay out his money safely and 
to the best advantage; — especially as, from the high 
price which guano commands, as also from its varying 
constituents and different appearance (samples from the 
same cargo frequently differing in colour and texture), 
a wide field is opened for adulteration. To whatever 
extent this may be carried on abroad, I am inclined to 
think it is more extensively practised among our- 
selves : " mixing-houses,^ as they are called, are daily 
becoming more numerous, and the amount of fraud 
practised is much greater than is generally imagined! 
In addition to this, it is liable to sustain damage in the 
transit, and also to casualty in collection, in consequence 

* The following are analyses of two samples of coprolite from Essex 

and Snffolk : — 

Green sand. Suffolk. 

Phosphate of lime 60*24 56*10 

Carbonate of lime 14*86 15*20 

Alumina 5*25 6*10 

Sand 11*15 10*80 

Oxide of iron 4*00 7*05 

Moisture 5*00 5*25 

100*00 100-00 



106 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADB EAST. 

of which it often contains an undue admixture of eartn, 
sand, and even pebbles. 

Mr. Way gives the following as the analysis of an 
average sample of Peruvian guano :— 

Moisture 13 per cent. 

. Organic matter, containing 17 per cent, of ammonia.. 58 ,, 

Alkaline salts, containing 8^ per cent, potash 9 „ 

Phosphates 24 „ 

Sand , 1 „ 

100 

As we can obtain water and sand for nothing, without 
going half round the world for them, their presence is 
not only valueless, but is so much loss in weight, besides 
augmenting the cost of carriage. The organic matter 
derives its chief value from the ammonia it contains, 
and this (see antCf table, p. 104) may be valued at 6|d. 
per lb.; in like manner, the phosphates should be valued 
as bone-earth, i.e., at Id, per lb. ; and the potash may 
be taken at its full value, viz., %f. per lb. This being 
done, the calculation will stand, within a fraction, 
thus: — 

8, d. 

Ammonia 17 lbs. at 6id. 9 2^ 

Phosphate 24 lbs. at Id, 2 

Potash 8ilbs.at2(2. 7 

11 9i per 100 lbs. 



Or 18 3 per cwt. 

Or £18. Ss. per ton; and if to this 10«. per ton be 
added as the value of the organic matter over and above 
the ammonia, it will give ^^13. IBs. as the value of the 
guano, according to the foregoing analysis.* 

* The analysis of guano is far too complicated for any fanner to 



MANURES— GUANO. 107 

' This mode of calculation applies to artificial manures 
equally with guano. But, inasmuch as no farmer, pro* 
bably, has the means within his own reach of testing 
the manures which he purchases, his best plan is always 
to buy under the guarantee of a written certificate. On 
receiving the manure, let him take a fair sample from 
the bulk — say a pound in weight, from the middle of 
one or two of the bags, in the presence of a witness. 
Having done this, he should divide them into two por- 
tions, and put them into separate bottles, which, when 
well corked, and wrapped up, (so as to exclude air and 
light,) must be kept in a cool place. If he has any doubt 
as to the quality, let him send one of the two samples to 
any experienced chemist, who, for a few shillings, will 
make a rough analysis, so as to show him whether he 
has been cheated or not ; and if the manure proves a 
failure, let him send the other sample to be regularly 
analyzed, and, if not found to be up to the published 



attempt. The following remarkfi upon guanos generally may be 
useful: — 

^•*«; S^LS^ Phosphates, 

Bolivian guano contains . . 5 to 7 56 to 64 25 to 29 

Peruvian „ „ .. 7tolO 56 to 66 16 to 28 

Ichaboe „ „ . . 18 to 26 86 to 44 21 to 29 

SaldanhaBay ,, .. 17 to 84 14 to 22 45 to 56 

From this it will be seen that the Peruvian and Bolivain guanos 
produce the most tmmeditUe, and the Saldanha Bay guano, the most 
lastvng effects. 

Guanos are also extensively imported from Patagonia and the 
Falkland Islands : these are all of an inferior description, and are 
generally advertised at from £5 to £5. 10«. per ton. They are all 
much deteriorated by the large quantity of rain which &lls upon them. 
Mr. Nesbit has analyzed ten samples imported, and states their 
average value to be £8. 9«. 8(2. per ton. 



108 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADB BA8Y. 

analysis, he has his remedy against the party from vfhom 
it was purchased. 

Dr. Voelcker, in his lecture on artificial manures,* 
observes, " Genuine Peruvian guano should contain from 
56 to 60 per cent, of organic matter, yielding at least 
16 per cent, of ammonia, 18 to 20 per cent, of bone 
earth, 6 to 8 per cent, of alkaline salts, and not more 
than 2 or 3 per cent, of insoluble silicious matter (sand). 
Further, genuine guano, on burning, leaves a perfectly 
white ash " (/ have found it slightly tinged with blue 
or pearl-grey^ ** which does not eflfervesce with an acid ; 
whilst adulterated guano generally produces, on burn- 
ing, a reddish-coloured ash, which does not readily 
dissolve in acid (showing adulteration with gypsum), or 
strongly eflFervesces with acid, proving adulteration with 
chalk.'' 

** But the easiest way to ascertain if Peruvian guano 
is genuine or adulterated is to weigh a bushel ; if pure, 
it will weigh from 68 to 72 lbs. ; if much adulterated, it 
will weigh considerably more, no cheap material having 
been discovered with which guano can be readily adul- 
terated, without increasing its specific gravity.'' -f* The 
farmer will also act wisely in avoiding guanos advertised 
with high-sounding names : they are for the most part 
resorted to for the purpose of getting rid of guanos 
damaged in transit, or otherwise to cover adulterations 



* It is a pity this valuable lecture is out of print ; it is to be found 
entire in the ** Journal of the Bath and West of England Agricultural 
Society," vol. iii. p. 72. Even at the cost of 6s, it is worth buying. 

f Here I must beg to differ with Professor Voelcker. I saw a sam- 
ple, a few months sincoi largely adulterated with an article of nearly the 
same gravity and colour, and which can be bought at about £5 per 
ton. I decline naming the article in question, for obvious reasons. 



a 
f> 



MANURES— OUANO. 109 

at home. In another part of the lecture just quoted. 
Dr. Voelcker, in adverting to a compound called " The 
Essence of Guano/' observes, ** Such an issue of 
guano lately has been analyzed by us with the following 
results : — 

Composition of the Esience ofQwmOy sold at £11 |>er ton. 

Water 8282 per cent. 

Organic matter* IS'lll 

Phosphates and oxides of iron and aluminaf 5 947 

Sulphate of lime (gypsum) 15*179 

Carbonate of lime (chalk) 8'003 „ 

Chloride of sodium (common salt) 15'803 „ 

Insoluble silicious matterj principally sand 

and brick-dust 34-297 „ 

100-622 

* Containing ammonia '643 

t Containing phosphoric acid 1 '088 

and equal to bone-earth 2*2)57 

" It will be observed that, instead of 16 per cent, of 
ammonia, this '^ Essence of Guano ^ contained only 
&-10ths per cent. ; and, instead of 20 per cent, bone- 
earth, only 2 and 3-lOths per cent. To make up for 
this deficiency, no less than 34 per cent, of sand and 
brick-dust, 15 per cent, of gypsum, 8 per cent, of chalk, 
and 16 per cent, of common salt had been added (nearly 
3*4ths of the whole bulk). A more fraudulent case,^ 
continues Professor Voelcker, " has scarcely ever come 
under our notice. The exceedingly small amount of 
ammonia (not quite 7-lOths per cent.) shows that, if 
any, a mere trace of Peruvian guano was incorporated 
in this worthless mixture, which, indeed, when examined 
under the microscope, appeared to have been com- 
pounded by mixing together gypsum, lime, sand, brick- 



110 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

dust, common salt, and sheep^s dung. So clumsily was 
the mixture made, that the last-mentioned ingredient 
could be readily identified by its characteristic globular 
fprm." 

As there is abundant reason to believe that Peruvian 
guano is extensively adulterated, judging by the able 
article to which I have just before alluded, I recom- 
mend the following as an additional test to that sug- 
gested by Professor Voelcker ; and one that will enable 
the farmer to ascertain whether the article has been 
adulterated in the way I have mentioned :— -Weigh 8oz. 
of the article, put this into a common metal pan (a 
brass ladle will be better), and place it over a hot fire, 
and there let it remain till everything combustible is 
burnt away ; the ash left, if the sample be pure, will, as 
I have before stated, be of a pearly white, and weigh 
one-third of the whole weight. If it exceeds this, and 
does not answer to the colour, the sample is adulterated; 
and the greater the departure from colour and weight, 
the greater the amount of adulteration ; if adulterated 
with the article already hinted at, the ash will be less 
than one-third of the bulk tested, and of a lightish 
slate-colour. 

With ordinary attention to these instructions, the 
farmer cannot be defrauded to any great extent ; but, 
in all large purchases, a written guarantee and a proper 
analysis are strongly recommended, and, in most cases, 
will well repay the cost incurred.* 

* Such of my readers as may desire to be more fully informed on 
this BtTbjeot, cannot do better than consult Mr. Nesbit*8 book on 
** Ni^tural Gu8 nos." 



WASTE MANURES. 



WASTE MANURES. 



Ill 



I have already had occasion to notice the reckless 
waste of many valuable fertilizing substances, arising 
from the farmer being either so ignorant as not to know 
their value, or so indolent as not to take the trouble of 
collecting them. I now propose to speak of these more 
in detail, in the hope that I may do something towards 
preventing the continuance of a practice so detrimental 
as this wanton waste of valuable matter. In quantity 
it is far greater than is generally imagined, and there is 
an abundance of evidence to prove that, were the waste 
fertilizers duly economized, they would supply ample 
material to make such a quantity of manure as would 
preclude the necessity for purchasing hand tillages at 
all. The farmer can scarcely plead ignorance upon 
this matter, for the subject has been brought under his 
notice in various shapes, and in numberless instances, 
during the last twenty years. Hannam, Milbum, 
Johnston, Huxtable, and a host of others, have, by 
their writings and lectures, been for years engaged in 
pressing this important subject upon the attention of 
the agricultural community. I regret, however, to be 
obliged to state that as yet very little good effect has 
been produced. There are, nevertheless, some honour- 
able exceptions, and these are to be found, naturally, 
among the most intelligent and successful of our farmers. 
A slight glance at a farmstead is sufficient to enable any 
man of ordinary intelligence and observation to tell 
whether the occupier makes the most of the wash 
of his premises, or allows it to run off uselessly ; and 
I am sorry to be compelled to report that the result of 
my observation is that waste is the rule and economy the 



112 SCIENTIFIC FARMINO MA.DE EAST. 

exception. We send ships to traverse the ocean for 
thousands of miles, in search of artificial fertilizers, for 
which we have to pay at the rate of ^f 10 to <£15 per 
ton, while at the very same time we are letting our own 
fertilizing agents run to waste under our very noses. 
France, Belgium, nay, every country in Europe, laughs 
at us for this. The French taunt us by saying we send 
to them for dried night-soil to fertilize our land, pre- 
ferring to let our own escape and pollute the streams 
from which we obtain water for domestic purposes, 
" Jean Bull preferring to take it au naturel'^ to 
manuring his land with it. 

I have for years viewed this subject from various 
aspects, and have come to the conclusion that this 
reckless waste is attributable to a combination of igno- 
rance and carelessness, with that miserable penny-wise- 
and-pound-foolish system of reducing the hand labour 
upon farms to starvation-point. In many parts of the 
country, in Lincolnshire particularly, there are hundreds 
of miles of ditches, drains, and watercourses, full of rank 
vegetable matter, which, if collected and made into 
compost-heaps, would be sufficient to manure every bit 
of the land they surround, and yet they are entirely 
neglected. Sooner than pay for the labour necessary to 
collect and work them up, the occupier of the soil will 
spend five or six times the amount for artificial fertilizers. 
But let us come to particulars, and first notice — 

The Waste of House-wash, — This, though not so 
powerful as the drainage of cattle-sheds, &c., is still of 
great fertilizing power, and in quantity is far greater 
than most people are aware of. When the establish- 
ment is extensive, and the family numerous, this waste 
is of course very considerable. It was but the other 



WASTE MANURES. 113 

day I visited a large farmstead, ivhen the first thing that 
struck my attention was one of the female domestics 
pouring the contents of a bucket of suds, after washing, 
into a grate, set most conveniently just opposite the 
kitchen-door. Being somewhat curious, I determined 
to trace the ultimate destination of this bucket of suds. 
I found the grate to communicate with a drain which 
led to the horse-pond, and from which pond another 
drain had been conriderately cut, which led to a ditch 
made to receive the surface drainage of the field on the 
side of which it ran : this emptied itself into a small 
stream, which led I know not M^here. Now, however 
valuable the manure thus wasted might prove in growing 
water-cresses, so (tac as the farm was concerned, it was 
lost. 

The wash of a house contains many valuable fertilizing 
ingredients: soapsuds contain soda and fatty matter; 
dish- washings, animal and vegetable matters, producing 
ammonia and salt ; and human urine, the most powerful 
fertilizer known. Now, if we estimate the washings and 
slops of every description in a house at 10 gallons a day 
(a moderate calculation), here is a loss per year of 
8,650 gallons, which, if worked up with ashes and 
other dry rubbish, would make a compost-heap of no 
inconsiderable size, and which, if mixed with farmyard 
dung, would greatly augment its quantity, as well as 
improve its quality.* 

The Waste by drainage from Dung-heaps I have 

* The high importance of these liquid matters cannot well be OTer- 
estimated. Mr. Milburn (the late secretary of the Yorkshire Agricul- 
tural Society, in the Transactiora of the ffigJUa/nd Society, 1841) states 
*' that as much liquid is thus wasted as vmdd have an effect equal to all 
Ihe hand-tiUages em^pUyyed by the farmer/ " 

I 



114 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

already noticed, in my remarks on the chemistry of the 
dunghill ; but I may here state that a moderately well- 
fed beast will produce ten or twelve tons of dung and 
about 1,500 gallons of urine per year; and the more 
highly and more nutritiously the animal is fed, the more 
powerfully fertilizing are its excrements : this is shown 
in the difference produced from an oilcake-fed animal 
and one chiefly fed upon root crops. It is also shown 
in the value of horse-dung ; and yet it is by no means 
uncommon to hear of a farmer prosecuting his servant 
for stealing com to give to his horses. To keep a horse 
upon short allowance, or to blow out his hide with 
inferior food, is a part of that ^^ penny-wise-and-^pound- 
foolish ''^ system before mentioned, and unfortunately so 
much in vogue with farmers. Three horses well fed will 
always be found to do more work and produce more 
manure, of a richer quality, than four horses badly fed : 
it is, therefore, idle in the extreme to expect to get four 
horses' work out of three horses' keep; and yet this 
species of economy many farmers actually have the 
ignorance to boast of practising ! 

The great channels of waste in dung-heaps consist*— 
1st, in the liquid which often is allowed to escape from 
them, and is thus washed into the drains; Snd, by 
evaporation, arising in consequence of their exposure to 
the sun and air by not being under cover. To obviate 
both of these losses there is a very simple remedy ; and 
that is, the use of animal carbon. This animal carbon 
may be obtained, in very considerable quantity, at the 
rate of from 4«. to 6«. per ton. It is the refuse of very 
extensive manufactories of Prussian blue and yelled 
prussiate of potash : it has the power of absorbing all 
the ammoniacal and other fertilizing properties of manure. 



WASTE MANUBES. 115 

which are liable to be washed away. A layer, say six 
inches thick at the bottom of a dunghill, and two inches 
thick as a covering, will entirely obviate the loss from 
either source. This article, used in the way here described, 
will be found very largely beneficial to the fanner : I 
use it extensively for extracting ammonia from gas- 
liquor, and recommend its use to my agricultural readers. 
Residues from various Manufactures* — I might ex- 
tend this part of my subject, were I to pursue it, beyond 
all ordinary limits, so vast and so numerous are the 
manufactures of England by which manure, to an iur 
credible extent, is wasted. By way of illustration, I will 
mention only one out of the legion ; viz., Ths Manu- 
facture OF Coke; and should these pages fall into 
the hands of any extensive coke-burner, I really hope he 
will turn his attention to it. Since the introduction of 
railways, the manufacture of coke has vastly increased, 
many thousands of tons of coal being used for that 
purpose alone. Every ton of coal used in this way 
contains, upon an average, about 100 lbs. of ammonia, 
at present lost by being dissipated into the air. Now 
this, by a very simple contrivance, might be all saved, 
so that the coke-manufacturer would double his profits, 
and the farmer be enabled to purchase that article at 
less than one-half its present lowest cost. Here, then, 
is a source from which an unlimited supply of one of 
the principal constituents of guano might be obtained at 
little comparative cost, but which, for want of ordinary 
care, as we have shown, is now recklessly wasted. 

Potash, one of the most valuable constituents in 
guano, is also wasted to an enormous extent. It is used 
by printers for washing their forms after they have been 
worked; and insignificant as this process may at first 

I 2 



116 SCIENTIFIC FABMIK6 MADE EAST. 

sight appear, it will be considered a matter well de- 
serving attention, when we come to know that the 
quantity wasted of this important and expensive article 
by the thirteen London daily papers alone, would, if 
saved, be sufficient to supply as much of that constituent 
as is needed in the production of upwards of 8,800 
bushels of wheat and its straw. Again, the quantity of 
human urine wasted at our railway-stations is enormous, 
although nothing would be easier than its collection : a 
large tank, a few tons of sawdust mixed with a few cwts. 
of green copperas to disinfect it, and it might be carted 
away in a fit state to mix with ashes, and drill, at almost 
any time, and for any crop. Indeed, if this valuable 
fertilizer, now wasted by hundreds of tons at our rail* 
way-stations, were collected in the manner I have de- 
scribed, we might very likely be spared the cost of 
sending out ships to remote parts of the world in search 
of guano. 

I cannot better conclude these observations upon 
manures than by offering a few remarks upon the me- 
thod of 

MIXING ARTIFICIAL MANURES FOR USE. 

Next to the quality of the manure itself, mixing it 
with soil, ashes, &c., is of the greatest importance, and 
yet so obstinate, so pig-headed, indeed, are a great 
majority of our farmers, that they will not take the 
little trouble required to make those manures thoroughly 
effectual. I speak from extensive observation, and I 
repeat, there is not one farmer in fifty who applies 
artificial manures according to the directions given. 
Many apply them without any mixing whatsoever; a 
failure is the consequence, and the manure is blamed. 



MIXING OF MANURES. 117 

(A farmer has, indeed, a great knack of blaming every- 
body and everything but his own stupidity!) Others 
again, instead of taking time for the operation, and 
mixing the manure with soil, ashes, &c., some ten days 
or a fortnight before it is wanted, and turning it over 
two or three times during the interval, so as to thoroughly 
incorporate the whole bulk, delay sending for the manure 
until the last moment ; they then cart it at once into the 
field, throw it upon the heap they may have prepared tp 
mix with it, give it one or two turns over with a shovel, 
and into the drill with it. By this slovenly mode of 
procedure, the compost is not half mixed ; some of the 
seed gets too much, and some none at all of the manure : a 
like failure with the former is the result, and again the 
manure is condemned. I have seen numerous instances 
where Peruvian guano has utterly failed, solely from 
this cause. And I may further add here another obser- 
vation ; viz., that a farmer who is slovenly in one thing 
IS generally slovenly in all others ; and the only cure for 
such a man is to raise his rent — no other argument 
will coiivince him. 

The following instructions, if strictly followed, will, 
in nine cases out of ten, give an increase of produce 
more than adequate to meet the extra sum the farmer 
may spend upon artificial manures ; and if such manures 
do not succeed when treated in this way, he will then be 
justified in blaming them, and not till then. A large 
proportion of the whole constituents of all artificial ma- 
nures are, or ought to be, soluble in water ; they should 
therefore be mixed with three or four times their weight 
of soil or finely-sifted ashes, at least ten days before they 
are used ; and if in a dry state, the addition of as much 
water as they will bear should from time to time be 



18 SCIEKTIFIC VABMIHG MADE EAST. 

applied with a watering-cm as the j are turned over. 
This will have the effect (^ impr^nating the whole 
maffiy and thus insure an equal distribution of aD the 
ftduble salts at least. The neoeflrity for this will be ap- 
parent to an J one if he will but think for a moment. 
Suppose a fiurmer to be about to apply an artificial ma- 
nure to his soil^ and to use it at the rate of 5 cwt. per 
Bcre : if he should use it without mixing, and sow it 
ever so evenly, he will only have a little over If oz. per 
square yard ; a quantity quite sufficient, if it could be 
so applied, as an equal proportion of it would come in 
contact with the roots of the growing plants ; but as this 
is impossible, it becomes absolutdy necessary that the 
manure should be mixed with some {Nx>per material, 
and equally necessary that it diould become thoroughly 
incorporated with that material, in order that its ferti- 
lizing powers may be equally diffused throughout the 
whole mass. By this means the little leaven is made to 
leaven the whole lump ; and unless this be dooe, no fir- 
mer is justified in throwing the blame on a manure when 
the fault is properly ascribable to himself. 



PART II. 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 



Next to the production of food itself, the science of 
using it is of the greatest importance to the farmer ; and 
much as he may have learnt upon the subject, he has still 
much more to learn before he can expect to make his 
farm yield the full amount it is capable of producing ; 
and until be has accomplished this, his work is still before 
him. 

There is no clearer indication of a man holding a farm 
too large for his capital than the way in which it is 
stocked. If the stock be equal to the acreage, there is 
little fear of the land becoming impoverished ; but if, 
as is too frequently the case, a farmer holds more acres 
than he is capable of stocking properly, his soil must 
become poorer every year. He may purchase artificial 
fertilizers, bones and other manures ; but unless he keeps 
plenty of stock, he can never farm profitably. If he 
has not sufficient stock to consume the food produced on 
the land, the surplus must be sold off the farm annually, 
and, unless annually replaced by manure, both farm and 
farmer will become speedily impoverished. It is, there- 
fore, of the last importance to a young farmer to 
consider well, before taking a farm, whether he has 
adequate means to stock it and work it to the greatest 
advantage. " The benefit,'' says Mr. Young, *' to be 
derived from the occupation of land depends so much 
upon the farmer commanding the requisite capital, that 
it is extremely necessary for the young beginner to be 
well advised on this essential point." But, supposing a 
young farmer to possess sufficient capital) a few ^\jl«c^ 



122 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

hints upon buying cattle and stocking his farm may not 
be altogether useless. 

In the first place he will do well to define his own 
plans, and determine whether he will rear and feed his 
cattle for the milk-pail, pr for supplying the markets ; 
and if he intend to compass both, it will be important for 
him to consider to what extent he means to carry on these 
operations. To determine this matter correctly, it will 
be necessary for him to ascertain the nature, situation, 
and fertility of the soils of which his farm is composed, 
and then carefully consider the proportion between his 
stock, and the amount of food required for their support. 
Correct views upon all these subjects are absolutely 
necessary, seeing that if he should overstock his land, he 
cannot fail of being a heavy loser ; and if, on the other 
hand, he does not stock his land with as many cattle as 
it will keep, he will not make the profit he otherwise 
would, and will also incur the additional loss of having 
to purchase extra manures. 

As to the breed and quality of the cattle he should 
purchase, I do not presume to ofier an opinion. Abler 
pens than mine, backed by much larger experience, 
have been usefully devoted to this subject, particularly 
of late years. However, the following table* cannot fail 
of proving sei*viceable, as affording a ready reference to 
the qualities and peculiarities of the different breeds of 
cattle, sheep, and swine ; while the judicious observations 
upon the peculiar advantages and disadvantages of the 
respective breeds, wiU serve greatly to assist the farmer 
in choosing that particular breed most suitable to his 
requirements, and most likely to thrive best upon the 
farm he occupies. 

* JSxtraoted &om 2kfr. Culley'B %nop«u of Breeds, with aoma TAla- 
abJe improvmentB by a Lincolnskdre grftziet* 



CUTTLB AND OATTLE-FBEDINO. 



123 



M 
fi 
PL? 

pq 
pq 

W 

CQ 
Pf 

F-i 

o 
o 

fi 

pq 
pq 
p^ 
PQ 

pq 

m 

o 

QQ 

M 

o 

GQ 






» 



g 



i 



O 



PQ 



^ 



O 

i 
1 

Hi 



I 



I 



I 



II 



I 



S- 



I 



I 



ll 

4 

Hi 





i 



8 

1 

I 

li 




t 4A ••> 




Si|| 




I 



14. 



i 



•gag 
If 

III 



9 




III 

■■ OQ •• 

5 « 5 



13 

O 

a 

% 



til 



11% 






'I I 











H 

Pi 
1 



134 



sdjanvna w^smaa madb, HAffir. 













1 

PS 



^ 

d 




iif 



I 



II 



:i 








it 



3 

»» 



fi3 



5- 

I; 

II 

li 

8 



"8 



|-f 2 2 

list-* 

_ ■ Iff I 



Jl 






IS 

sis 

PI 




sessl 



3 



11^ 





Q 
H 
H 

£5 • 

as 






CO 

si S 






CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 



126 



8 

►J" • 



I 

I 



«2 .'gflg'^ 








00 



o 

pa 

Pi 

o 

fa 



H 

s 



fa 

o 

09 

P-l H 
W 
P« 

n 

fa 
o 

& 

5 



GQ 



O 






n 



Q 

P 
O 

fa 



1 









fa 
fa 

o 

fa 

o 

pa 

i 



I 

II 

Ir 



« 



• 



* 



1^ 



111 
8.0 








OOO O 



11 



9 

o 



flfi 

S9 



126 



SCIENTIFIC FABHING HADB EAST. 



1 



S 




i§ 

« S o 

III 



g 



II 




I 



11 

SI 

ll 

1^ 



I 



I 

g 

t 



I 




til^s 



^ he 



^ 



llllll 



i||is| 

K boa j 



llitii 

CO g S <B B*^ 

^4» a htt> 



5 





«• 



•8^ 



^ 



f 






8 



I. 
ll 

•o'S 

n 






O 




S 






s 

oa 
Q 

S 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDINQ. 



127 




S2lS 



sa-a-fi 




m 




l&it 



9*43 







av 



a 






I 



i a P « " 



|l|ifi 



CO 

. o S 



60^ 

I 
? (8 

!"0 



illll 



*.i£ 

^ I 

IP 



5"d8-'a«- 








^ 



P-og^ 



^* 



§ 



■is^i 







es^ 



lljlf 





lid s 



is-a 







o 

Q 



O 



6 

J. as 



1^ 



03 

H 
O 



M 

s 

H 

n 



s 



128 



SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 









f 



ll 







^111^^ 



g^ 







Q 

Ok 



I: 

H 



M 

M 

at 



|lt 



1-9 8 



5 2 53 

111 
§«?.. 

fll 



9 
1 

I. 

II 
II 



1 



M 
O 



1^ 
III 



S o I 
a> S S 

5 if 



a-go 



1 



'C a 

9 « « 



^ 



H 

n 



S 



OATTLB AND OATTLB-FEEDINO. 



129 








►»« 



Sf^j^i-^ 



« 









:ii^« 



alii. 





I 



llllfi 




*=* * « 2 ►»£ 

•§53 



M2|||| 



« >»( 



I 



i 

I 



CO u 

.8 

a* 



O 
Q 

9} 



iS 









Si . 

pes 



5 

Ii4 



QQ 

1^ 
O 

QQ 

Q 

PQ 
Ph 

M 

Ph 
O 

I 

I 



I 



1 

I 



^ 



•Sj5.g 

ill 



1 



e8 s 



2 



V 



I 

a 
si 

lit 

3||o 






1 " 
o g 




130 



SCIENTIFIC FABHINO MADE EAST. 



'S> 



€ 



r&i 




■'"S 



I 



4> » CD 

•as- 

ao o) (A 




S 10 bo 




•3 



^ 



COO 



03 

O 

O 

o 









0=: 



o 



2 g 



Pi 

o 



I 



^ s 
> 



O 
Q 



• Q 



0i 
Opq 



CJATTLB AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 131 

Discarding, as I have already done, any intention to 
oiFer specific advice as to what cattle a young farmer 
should purchase as stock, yet a few general observations 
may not be inappropriate, as they will have direct refer- 
ence to the foregoing tables, and in some measure explain 
the terms used : — 

Symmetry of Shape means a form so compact that 
every part of the animal is relatively well-proportioned. 
To make up this, the carcass should be deep and broad. 
The less valuable parts, such as the head, bones, &c., 
should also be as small as possible. 

Flesh. — As a knowledge of this can only be acquired 
from outward indications by practice, it is sufficient to 
state that the best sign of good flesh, when the animals 
are killed, is that of being marbled^ or having the fat 
and lean finely veined or intermixed. This is only 
to be conjectured in the living animal by handling, and 
thereby ascertaining whether the flesh and the skin have 
a firm and mellow feel, neither dry and hard on the 
one hand, nor flabby on the other ; but yielding under 
the pressure of the fingers in what is called an even 
** kindly " manner. 

Breeding. — Sir John Sinclair (a safe authority) says: 
** Breed only from small-boned, straight-backed, healthy, 
clean, kindly-skinned, and round-bodied animals, care- 
fully rejecting all having heavy legs and roach backs, 
with much appearance of offal.'' There is, however, 
nothing but practice can teach a farmer this part of his 
business : the hints here given are with a view to assist 
him in his operations. But one rule I must lay down, 
and recommend him never to lose sight of it ; and that is, 
never to buy cattle^ whether lean or fat^ out of richer 
or better grounds than those into which he has to turn 

K 2 



132 SCIBNTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

them ; if he does, a material loss will be the inevitable 
consequence. Better by far buy an animal fed upon 
poor soil, and in a more northern district, at a low price, 
and bring it to a richer and warmer pasture, where, if it 
be moderately well-bred,, it must improve rapidly, than 
buy one from a rich soil and turn it upon a poor one, 
where it cannot but starve and lose flesh : this is parti- 
cularly the case with aged cattle. 

THE THEORY OF CATTLE-FEEDING. 

In feeding cattle a farmer has three things to consider, 
three distinct objects to attain : first, to make bone ; 
second, to make^^A ; and third, to make/a^. Without 
bone he can have no flesh, without flesh he can have no 
fat. Thus they are dependent upon one another : they 
are all necessary to the support of animal life, and to the 
full development of the animal. This being so, it is 
absolutely necessary that in feeding an animal, its food 
should contain all the elements of bone, flesh, and fat; 
the two former being plentifully supplied to the growing 
animal, and the latter when it is being made up for the 
market. Now, bone has for its elements phosphoric acid 
and lime ; those of flesh are gluten, fibrine, &c. ; and of 
fat, carbon. 

These, therefore, it is necessary the food should contain, 
in their proper proportions, in feeding the animal at its 
various stages. While young and in a growing state, it 
requires the bone and flesh-forming constituents; and 
these are to be found in swedes, cabbage, potatoes, &c., 
all of which contain a large percentage of phosphoric acid, 
the principal constituent of bones, and also a considerable 
proportion of gluten, caseine, &c., the principal consti- 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 133 

tuents of flesh ; but \t Jlesk is required to be laid oit 
with a view to fattening, peas, lentils, and other 
leguminous food should be used. And tor fat you must 
have recourse to linseed, and other seeds containing 
large proportions of oil, starchy gum, sugar, &c. &c., all 
fat-forming constituents. 

The constituents the food ought to cx)ntain being 
known, the next question is the quantity required, as 
best adapted to promote the growth and sustain the 
animal, at different periods and under different con- 
ditions. Mr. Gyde has published some very useful and 
practical information upon these points. *' An ox,'' he 
remarks {Agric. Gaz,^ vol. i. p. 613), " requires 2 per 
cent, of his live- weight of hay per day ; if he works, 
2^ per cent.; a milch cow, 3 percent.; a fatting ox, 
5 per cent, at first, and 4?^ per cent, when half fat, and 
only 4 per cent, when fat ; grown-up sheep 3^ per cent, 
to k^ep them in store condition. An ox, to replace the 
daily loss of muscular fibre, requires from 20 to 24 oz. 
of dry gluten or vegetable albumen daily. This would 
be supplied by : — 



Table No. 1. 



17 lbs. oloyer hay. 
12 lbs. pea straw. 
12 lbs. barley. 
10 lbs. oats. 
5 lbs. beans. 



120 lbs. of turnips. 
115 lbs. wheat straw. 

75 lbs. carrots. 

67 lbs. potatoes. 

20 lbs. meadow hay. 

The closer the food approaches in its chemical consti- 
tuents to the flesh it is required to form, the sooner the 
end will be attained. The following table gives the 
analysis of 100 parts of dried beef, and also some of the 
vegetable substances from which it is commonly pro- 
duced. I may here observe that beef before it is dried 
usually Gontains about 77 per cent, of water. 



Beans. 


Dried beef. 


38-24 


61-82 


5-84 


7-57 


83-10 


21-37 


5-00 


15-01 


s-n 


4-23 



l34 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADB EASY. 

Table No. 2. 

Hay. Oato. 

Carbon 3347 41*57 

Hydrogen 4-20 5*25 

Oxygen 82-51 80-10 

Nitrogen 1-26 1-80 

Ashes 7*56 3-28 

Water 1600 18-00 14*11 — 

Table No. 3. 
100 parts of 

Carbon. Hydrogren. Nitrogen. Oxygen. 

Mutton fet contain 78-996 11-700 — 9-304 

Potato starch .. „ 44*250 6'674 — 49*076 

Gum „ 42-682 6-874 — 60-944 

Wool „ 60-653 7*029 17*710 24-608 

Horn „ 51-162 6-597 17*284 24957 

From the foregoing tables it will be seen that vege- 
table and animal substances approach more closely in 
their chemical constituents than many would be apt to 
imagine. 

The following table will serve to show the relative 
quantities of flesh-forming and fat-forming constituents 
contained in an acre of the different crops mentioned : — 

Table No. 4. 
An acre of ,J^''^'^T!^' s. l^!^^: 

j^L, acxc ML albumen, glufceu, &c. ^^^^^^ ^: 

Beans, or 25 bushels contains 450 lbs. 672 lbs. 

Peas, or 25 bushels „ dSO „ 845 

Oats, or 60 bushels „ 290 „ 1,168 

Hay, or 3 tons „ 480 „ 2,790 

Potatoes, or 12 tons „ 600 „ 8,330 

Carrots, or 25 tons „ 1,120 „ 6,800 

Turnips, or 30 tons ,^ 800 „ 6,700 

Wheat straw, or 8,000 lbs. . „ 40 „ 940 

Oat straw, or 2,700 lbs „ 36 „ 970 

^rlejTBtmw, or 2,100 \hn.* ^ %% ^t ^^ 



» 

it 
f» 
># 
»r 
t» 
9f 



CATTLB AND CATTLE FBBDING. 135 

The next table is intended to show the comparative 
flesh-forming and fat-forming properties contained in 
100 parts of each different description of food. 

Table No. 5. 

Flesh-farming Fatformif^ 
constitueiits. constituents. 

Beans 28*0 per cent. 40 per cent. 

Peas 24-0 „ 50 „ 

Barley 112-0 „ 60 „ 

Oats 14-5 „ ^0 „ 

Meadow hay 7'1 „ 40 „ 

Clover hay 9*3 . „ 40 „ 

Potatoes 2*25 ,, 12 ,, 

Carrots 2*0 „ 10 „ 

Turnips 1*2 „ 10 „ 

Wheat straw 1-3 „ 80 „ 

Oat straw 1*3 „ 35 „ 

The following table of equivalents may also be useful, 
as showing how one description of crop may be sub- 
stituted for another, and produce the same effect in 
feeding. Taking 100 lbs. of good meadow hay as the 
standard, it is equal in point of nutrition to— 

Table No. 6. 

Tonng clover 90 lbs. 

Vetches, dry 90 „ 

Lucem, dry 90 „ 

Sainfoin, dry 90 „ 

Potatoes 200 „ 

Carrots 266 ,, 

Beet-root « 460 „ 

White cabbage 600 „ 

In reference to the above table, it must be understood 
that their relative value, as set forth, applies to the 
elements of nutrition (flesh-forming properties) alone, 
and not to the elements of respiration or fat-forming 
properties, the two bdng entirely distinct* And, al- 



• 



136 SCIENTIFIC FORMING MADE EAST. 

though I have mentioned the difference between these 
two in a former part of this book, it may not be amiss to 
repeat that the flesh- forming elements contain oxygen, 
hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen ; while the fat-forming 
elements are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, but no nitrogen. 
For the flesh and fat-forming equivalents. Tables Nos. 4 
and 5 should be referred to. It would be easy to 
multiply tables of this description, — I have some eighty or 
ninety before me, and out of them I have selected the 
foregoing as being most practically useful. I may state, 
however, that they all approximate so nearly as to render 
them all reliable. 



SPECIAL FOODS FOR CATTLE. 

Mangold WurxeL — This plant is rapidly superseding 
the swede-turnip, over which it possesses many advan^ 
tages. For some years past the swede has been gradu- 
ally declining, both in point of quantity and quality. 
** So far as our experience leads us to conclude from 
having cultivated mangold wurzel for nearly forty 
years,^ observes Mr, Bakers of Writtle, " we feel certain 
that for every purpose it is equal to the Swedish turnip, 
whilst for feeding oxen and cattle of every description 
it is vastly superior. Independently of this, the certainty 
of obtaining a plant, and the small degree of hazard 
that attends it during its growth, either from insects or 
drought, render it far more valuable ; and the facility 
with which it is obtained, even during severe frost, 
places it incomparably before the turnip.^ 

" For a long time, the prejudice of farmers was difii- 
cult to overcome. Its best mode of application was not 
then thoroughly understood, and from giving it too 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 137 

plentifully to cattle before Christinas arrived, scouring 
followed, m addition to paralysis of the limbs, from which 
they recovered slowly ; but it is now used throughout 
the year without any of those disadvantages becoming 
apparent. Throughout the autumn, the leaves are cut 
up, and the roots pulped or cut into pieces, and mixed 
invariably with cut chaff, composed of one part hay and 
three parts of wheat or oat straw ; and cows, oxen, and 
young cattle are fed upon the mixture, the whole secret 
of properly feeding lying in this description of man" 
agement. The dry food counteracts the superabundant 
amount of moisture contained in the roots, and also 
diminishes the acrid qualities, which at that season, when 
given alone, act upon the stomach and bowels of neat 
stock, and produce the disorders before mentioned ; and 
even when, later in the season, it can be given without 
producing these results, it is always advisable to combine 
it with dry food, as a means not only of economizing it 
but also rendering it of greater utility. It can be also 
adjusted better as regards the quantity given per day ; 
from 56 to 112 lbs. being fully sufficient. About the 
middle of January the second vegetation commences, 
and the sugar it contains becomes fixed, and cannot be 
extracted."^ From that period the fattening properties of 
mangolds become gradually augmented, and continue to 
increase until the month of June.^ 

The following is the plan adopted by Mr. Baker, and 
ivhich, from the quantities used, and their respective 
nutritive properties, cannot fail in proving one of the 



* In manxifiMstorieB where it is used for extracting sugar, the plant 
is taken before the second vegetation commences, it being fonnd im- 
possible to extract the sugar after that process has commenced. 



138 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

best methods of both feeding and fatting cattle : — *^ I use 
machines that pluck it into small pieces : these are mixed 
with a quantity of cut chaff (the quantities are given 
above), and are moistened by linseed-meal that has been 
steeped in water 48 hours, at the rate of 3 lbs. to each 
bullock. In addition, a portion of from 3 to 4 lbs. of 
barley or bean^meal is added at the time of feeding, 
each meal being prepared 12 hours previously to the time 
of using. For store stock, about 56 lbs. (equivalent to 
a bushel) is given ; for fatting-stock, 80 to 112 lbs. per 
diem. 

" I keep a large number of milking cows, which are 
fed upon it from August to June following. Whenever 
the leaves can be used, we find an increased quantity of 
milk. They are invariably cut up and mixed with the 
roots and chaff, and are the most valuable portion of the 
plant in its early stages.* As a manure, when ploughed 
in, they are also beneficial ; but, where much live-stock 
is kept, they can be applied to a more beneficial purpose. 
In feeding sheep, as well as cows, the roots are best 
when combined with cabbages or turnips, but should 
never be given to either without some degree of caution 
being exercised, as a sudden change of food is apt to 
cause considerable relaxation of the bowels, which can 
be mostly avoided by proper management. For sheep 
before lambing, and for sows in farrow, they cannot be 
recommended, and for very young pigs they are also not 
well adapted, but are even injurious. The roots pro- 



* If the young stems are gathered, cooked, and served up after the 
manner of asparagus^ they are equally fine-flavoured, and would prove 
a cheap and lasting substitute for that delicate but somewhat expen- 
8ive esculent. 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEBDING. 139 

duce great heat in the system^ {doubtlessly^ from th^ 
large amount of carbon they contain), " and even oxen 
will, during the most severe frosty weather, be found in 
a high state of perspiration in open yards ; and young 
cattle invariably fatten upon them better in open yards 
than when stalled. This may be accepted as an estab- 
lished fact, having myself made several experiments to 
prove it. With older cattle it is otherwise. There is 
one point, however, quite certain, — that cattle which 
have been longest accustomed to mangold wurzel thrive 
best upon it ; and for young weaned calves of two or 
three months old, it succeeds admirably ; still, whenever 
it can be combined with swedes or common turnips, it is 
advisable to do so.'' — Farmer's Mag., vol. xlviii. p. 824. 

Its relative feeding value with turnips is as follows : — 
Turnips, Ss. ; swedes, 7«. ; mangolds, Ss. per ton. 

Von Thaer gives the following table of the propor- 
tion of nutritive matter contained in 1,000 parts of — 

Swedish turnip 64 

VThite turnip 42 

Mangold wurzel 136 

Orange globe 135^ 

Sugar beet 146| 

General Observations. — All root crops have a ten- 
dency to scour, and therefore should invariably be given 
with a fair proportion of dry food, as one has a tendency 
to render the other more assimilative, and consequently 
more immediately nutritious. The advantage of mix- 
ing swedes with mangolds, particularly for growing 
stock, will be at once apparent by reference to the table 
at page 37. There it will be seen that swedes contain a 
much larger proportion of phosphoric acid than man- 
golds, and are therefore be.tter adapted for supplying 



140 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

the growing animal with bone ; but, where cabbage 
can be grown under favourable circumstances, it will, 
for all feeding purposes, be found more beneficial than 
either. So much, however, depends upon the character 
of the soil and other matters over which the farmer has 
but very little control, that a great deal will depend upon 
his own discretion and intelligence. 

LINSEED-CAKE, &c. 

Under this head, we may class every description of 
oil-cake. The rapidly-increasing demand for oil-cake, 
the extensive use of it,^ and the high price it commands 
in the market, open a wide field for adulteration ; and 
true it is, that linseed-cake is more extensively adul- 
terated than any other article of agricultural commerce ; 
and so much so, that the honest manufacturer stands 
but little chance of competing with the vender of the 
spurious article; seeing that, from the nature of the 
adulterants Used, their infinite variety, and their great 
similarity to the genuine seed itself when ground up, the 
farmer has great difficulty in ascertaining from appearance 
which is the genuine and which the adulterated article. I 
therefore propose to point out how, by a few simple tests, 
any farmer may ascertain for himself whether the sample 
be genuine or not. Before doing this, however, it may 
be useful to offer a few remarks upon the various 
descriptions of oil-cakes now in use, all of which are 

* The consumption of oil-cake during the year 1858 was, in round 
numbers, 90,000 tons, purchased at a cost of about £700,000 ; while in 
1859 the importation of this article amounted to no less than 99,268 
tons, and purchased at a cost of rather more than £772,000 ; showing 
an increaee of £72,000 on the year. 



CATTLB AND CATTLE-FBBDING. 141 

important to the fanner, not only for their fattening qua- 
lities, but also from their highly fertilizing properties. 

All cdeaginous seeds, when under great pressure, yield 
a twofold product ; viz., the oil, and the substances 
left after the oil has been pressed out. Both of these 
partake more or less of the characteristics of the plant 
from which they are derived. The seeds most in use are 
linseed, rape-seed, poppy-seed, mustard-seed, and cotton-^ 
seed. There are, indeed, numerous others ; but, as they 
enter but very slightly into consumption, a lengthy 
detailed account of their respective qualities is not 
necessary. 

Of the various oil-cakes used either for feeding, fatten- 
ing, or for manurial purposes, linseed-cake has by far the 
largest consumption; and, as the next in point of 
importance is rape-cake, I shall therefore go more largely 
into detail in considering the composition of these than 
the others. 

As linseed is not extensively cultivated in England, a 
very large portion of what is consumed is necessarily 
imported."^ In preparing linseed for extracting oil and 
making cake, it is first of all ground under large stones, 
revolving round a shaft upon their edges. When ground 
sufficiently fine, it is subjected to a gentle heat, and put 
into long hair bags ; these again, having the mouth doubled 
under to keep the meal together, are placed lengthwise 
in powerful hydraulic presses, capable of sustaining a 
pressure of many tons, which is exerted by a steam- 
engine. After the proper degree of presbure has been 



* The quantity of linseed imported daring the year 1857 was 
1,051,118 qrs.y at a cost of £3,061,684, being a fraction over £3 per 
quarter. 



142 SCIENTIFIC FABMINO MADE EASY. 

applied, the oil is made to ooze out through the bags; 
this is caught in a spout placed round the press for 
the purpose, and is conveyed by a pipe into the butts in 
which it is senf to market. When the oil has been thus 
expressed, the pressure is taken off, and the residue left 
is removed from the bags by turning them inside out. 
As some considerable portion of oil remains round the 
edges, this is pared off, to be re-pressed, and the re- 
mainder is the oil-cake of commerce. Oil-cake is largely 
manufactured abroad, as well as in England ; America, 
France, Holland, and Belgium producing it in large 
quantities. 

Oil-cake made in England has obtained a marked 
preference over the foreign sorts, and invariably com- 
mands a higher price in the market ; but its quality is 
found to vary greatly, two samples being rarely found 
alike. In purchasing linseed, the buyer will take care, 
for his own benefit, that the article be moderately clean, 
and free from other seeds of less value. Seed of this 
description, of course, is sold somewhat higher than 
others; and, in the present state of competition, it re- 
quires no ordinary sense of fair-dealing to resist the 
temptation of using a low-priced seed, seeing that the 
cake made from an indifferent sort will obtain quite as 
good a price as that made from a good article; more- 
over, as the seeds with which linseed is generally mixed 
all contain oil, but little loss will ensue on' this account. 
The chief reason why home-made cake has obtained an 
acknowledged preference may be easily accounted for : 
it is generally fresher, sweeter, and consequently more 
relished by cattle than foreign cake, which, either from 
the meal being too highly heated before pressing, or in 



CATTLE AND CATTLE- FEEDING. 143 

consequence of its becoming damaged by sea-air in tran- 
sit, or from its being kept a long time in stock, perhaps, 
also, in too damp a place, or from passing through 
various hands before it comes into those of the farmer 
for consumption, is apt to get rancid, and acquire a 
disagreeable smell and taste, very offensive to cattle. 

For feeding purposes, the ^^fe«A-forming properties of 
linseed-cake are about equal in value with peas and beans, 
while ii^ fattening properties are superior to every other 
vegetable food of the same cost. 

Another advantage English cake possesses over those 
of foreign manufacture is, that it contains a larger per- 
centage of oil, and is consequently of greater value for 
producing fat, and thereby commands a higher price. 
This difference in market value has been the cause of a 
large amount of adulteration ; one of the most common 
practices being to work up old and damaged cake with 
a portion of new seed, so as to give it a more mellow 
and fresher appearance, and to palm it off upon the 
farmer as English-made cake. I have heard it often 
asserted that, in the adulteration of oil-cake, sand and 
other earthy matters are used. From the numerous 
samples that I am in the habit of continually examining, 
I have never met with adulterations of this nature, 
beyond such an amount as might have been occasioned 
by accident ; in fact, adulterations of this character 
would be so obvious, as to render their detection almost 
a matter of course ; and I think I may say that they 
are never resorted to, at least by those who make a 
practice of adulteration. The adulterants generally are 
the inferior oleaginous seeds ; amongst which the brown, 
or as it is commonly called, '^ black mustard,''^ rape and 



144 SCIBNTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

cotton seeds, those of the Brassica tribe, the wild poppy, 
and others of a more worthless description. In addition 
to the foregoing, distillers^ dregs, particularly those left 
after the distillation of the beet-root ; the carob bean 
(locust) ; and, in one sample I had to examine, I found 
every indication of brewers' grains having been dried, 
ground, and used as a means of adulteration. 

As the feeding value of oil-cake depends very much 
upon the per-centage of oil it contains, and as this varies 
considerably in different samples, is is desirable that the 
farmer should be put in possession of a simple method by 
which he may be enabled to arrive at the quantity of 
oil contained in any sample of cake offered to him. A 
really good sample of oil-cake ought to contain from 
10 to 1^ per cent, of oil. In order to ascertain whether 
it does so, proceed as follows : — 

1. Weigh accurately 100 grains of the cake, after being reduced to 
powder by grating and rubbing well in a mortar ; put this into a wine- 
glass, and add a fluid ounce of ether (such as may be obtained from any 
respectable druggist) ; stir them well together, and let it stand until the 
residuum has settled ; pour off the fluid, or filter it through a small 
portion of cotton-wool in a glass funnel, into a separate glass. The ether 
will speedily evaporate, leaving the oil behind, which, when weighed, 
should not, as before observed, be less than from 10 to 12 per cent. ; 
though some samples of the best description of English cakes will 
give as much as 16^ per cent, of oiL 

Linseed-cake is, moreover, often adulterated with 
other substances which are far less costly than oily seeds 
of an inferior description : the presence of these is best 
detected by the ash. If adulteration be suspected, the 
foUovdng course should be pursued : — 

2. Bednce 100 £^ng to powder, as before directed ; bum this upon a 
fire-shovel, or in a common brass ladle over a hot fire, till everything 
oombustible is burnt away : the ash left should not, and if the sample 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEBDING. 145 

be genuine, will not weigh more than 7 or 8 grains, and should be 
nearly white. 

This is not only a simple but a very good test, but I 
find very few samples come up to it. Some produce as 
much as 18 to 19 per cent, of ash, which is either black, 
or of a darkish slate-colour. 

3. To the ash prddnced, as above, add diluted muriatic acid (spirit of 
salt) ; in this, by aid of a little heat, it should nearly all dissolve : if it 
do not, something wrong is manifest, particularly if a considerable 
portion of sand remain. 

In addition to its feeding properties, cake is valuable 
also from the superiority of the manure of cake-fed 
cattle over that of those fed in the ordinary way ; such 
superiority arising from the former containing a large 
amount of phosphate of lime. To ascertain the amount 
of this valuable material, — 

4. Filter the solution made as above, and add liquor ammonia 
(spirit of ammonia of the shops) in excess, when phosphate of lime will 
fall. Pour off the liquid, collect the precipitate, dry, and heat to 
redness. The weight of this phosphate should not be less than three^ 
fifths of the whole ash left by process No. 2. If it be much less, dQ 
not buy. 

I have before observed that linseed-cake is often 
adulterated by the admixture of other seeds of an in- 
ferior quality ; to detect these, the following test will be 
found eflRective. It should be first mentioned, however, 
that the husk of linseed is of a darkish bright-brown 
colour, approaching to the hue of burnt umber or 
Spanish brown. Proceed thus : — 

5. Break a portion of the cake into small pieces, and add boiling 
water, frequently straining the whole thrpugh a thin linen cloth. 
After repeated washings in this way, the husks of the original seeds 
will be obtained in a separate state; these being examined either 
under the microscope, or through a magnifying lens, will show by their 
colours whether adulteration has been carried on in this way or not. 

L 



146 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE BAS7. 

The hnflkfl of the black xnastard, ibr instance, will be eadly detected 
by their light colonr, and those of the other smaller seeds by their 
black or other colours at yariance with that of the genuine seed. 

6. To detect adulteration by mustard or rape seed, a different plan 
must be adopted. If cake be adulterated with mustard or rape seed, 
it will emit a strong pungent smell when mixed with cold water. The 
smell is the same in both cases, the mustard, and sometimes the rape, 
predominating. To distinguish between the two^ ike taste must be 
resorted to, and in this respect that of the mustard will be found much 
stroller. As hot water destroys the taste, but not the pungent smell 
of these two adulterants, it should not be used ; but the sample should 
be tested in both ways, as linseed -cake is sometimes adulterated by 
both these seeds, after they have been subjected to great heat in the 
process of manufacture, in order to extract as large an amount of oil 
from them as possible. 

This latter test is not altogether infallible, as if either 
mustard or rape seed have been heated above 175° Fah., 
it will no longer give the pungent smell when afterwards 
powdered and mixed with cold water ; and as most of 
the rape-cake brought to market has been prepared by 
hot crushing^ great caution is necessary in forming con- 
clusions. 

Rape-cake^ in its chemical constituents, resembles 
very closely that of linseed ; it is, however, much more 
pungent both in taste and smell, and consequently is 
not relished by cattle. Like linseed it is found to contain, 
in addition to a variable quantity of oil, a high per- 
centage of phosphoric acid, as well as a large amount of 
magnesia ; these, with its pungent properties, render it, 
when ground or finely broken, a valuable, and what far* 
mers call a ^Vwarm ^' manure. The late Mr. Pusey used 
it extensively in sheep-feeding, and stated in the Royal 
Agricultural Journal, that he found it not so unpalatable 
to them as to cattle, and he therefore recommended it as 
a cheap substitute for linseed-cake. The oil contained 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FBEDINO. 147 

in rape-cake is, however, apt to get more quickly rancid 
than that in linseed-cake ; therefore, when purchased for 
feeding purposes, care should be taken that the cake is 
fresh. It should be stored in a dry place, exposed to the 
air as little as possible, and consumed as soon as cir- 
cumstances will admit.*^ 

Cottonrseed Cake, — This cake is now gradually coming 
into use, and from its general feeding properties, as well 
as from its cheapness, it is not improbable that it may 
ultimately, in a great measure, displace linseed-cake. 
The great objection to it is, the large amount of indiges- 
tible husk it contains, in some cases amounting to 9!7 per 
cent. This is not only useless for feeding purposes, but 
likely to prove absolutely injurious to cattle. Therefore 
before cotton-seed cake can ever displace linseed to any 
great extent, the manufacturer must first take care to 
divest it of the husk it contains, and this he can do only 
by decorticating the seed before crushing, which will ne- 
cessarily increase the price of the article to the extent of 
the husk thus removed. In purchasing cotton-seed cake 
the farmer should, therefore, exercise great caution as 
to the quantity of husk it contains ; and in this he will 
be materially assisted by resorting to the instructions 
given (No. 5) for the examination of oil-cakes, at page 
145. If by that process he should find, after drying, 
more than 10 to 1^ per cent., he may be sure the seed 

* Mr. Mechi, however, states a &ct which seems to ignore this view 
of the matter. " My sheep and bullocksy" he observeSy " were eating 
old rape-cake, which being exhausted, they were supplied with some 
recently made : not a mouthful of this would they touch ; but after 
packing it away for six weeks the same animals took it readily. The 
bullocks consume from 5 to 6 lbs. per day. My usual allowance to 
sheep is 1 to li lb. Fat sheep will eat more than lean ones. — 1858." 

L 2 



148 SCIEVTIFIC FAKMIK6 XADS EAST. 

was not decorticated before crushing, and therefore 
diould not buy. The following comparative analysis, 
given by Professor Voelcker, of decorticated and non- 
decorticated seed, will be sufficient to convince those 
who desire to use it, of the importance of this fact : — 

Not 



MoiBtnre 901 10-58 

Oil 17-9S 6-10 

^Flesh-fonning prindples 41*81 22*62 

Woodyfibre 8*80 26*»6 

Gum, sugar, mndlage, ke. 13'67 26*48 

Mioenl maiter (Mil) 8*78 7*31 

10000 100*00 

^Coniaming nitrogen 6*67 3*62 

The first column of this double analysis refers to a 
cake examined by Dr. Voelcker, that was offered at 
£6. 10«. per ton, and the other column to a sample 
submitted by Mr. Lawrence, offered at £5. lOs. per ton. 
The former sample is worth more than double the price of 
the latter. The woody fibres also, in the latter, would 
be likely to prove injurious^ and therefore cotton-seed 
made into cake without decortication is inadmissible as a 
food for cattle. However, I do not doubt that cotton- 
seed cake, when divested of its husk, will not only prove 
a valuable, but a cheap substitute for linseed-cake. 

Other descriptions of Oil-cake. — There are other 
descriptions of cake finding their way into the market, 
but which have not obtained sufficient importance to 
call for special comment : there are, however, two which 
may be briefly noticed with advantage ; viz., the cake 
made from the Carob bean (locust), and that made from 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FBEOING. 149 

distillers^ dregs. The following analyses will serve to 
show their relative values :* — 

Analysis of— Carob bean. Distillers* dregrs. 

Water 12-57 7046 

** Albuminous compounds 3*11 10*80 

Sugar .' 49-68 — 

Gum, starch, Ac 12*83 — 

Woody fibre 7*0 17*42 

Oil 0*41 — 

Ash 2-80 1-33 

Seeds 11*16 — 

100-00 100*00 

♦♦Containing nitrogen 0-47 1*72 

The ash contained earthy phosphates 0*84 0-86 
Phosphoric acid combined with 

alkaUes 0-06 019 

Before closing our observations on the value of these 
different descriptions of cake, it may be useful, for the 
purpose of reference, to give the following table of the 
comparative analyses of rape, linseed, poppy-seed, and 
cotton-seed cakes, as prepared by Professor Ander- 
son rf — 

Constituents of-Iinseed. ^ ^' ^^' 

Water 12*44 10-68 11*68 11*19 

Oil 12-79 11-10 6*75 9-08 

Albuminous compounds 27*69 29*53 31*46 25*16 

Ash 6*13 7-79 12-98 5-64 

Other constituents .... 40*95 40*90 38*18 48*93 

100*00 100*00 100-00 100-00 

Nitrogen 4-83 4-38 4*94 3*95 

Phosphates 2-78 3*87 6*93 219 

Phosphoric acid 0*55 0-89 3*27 0*15 

SUica(8and) 1*05 1*18 8^36 1*32 

* Extracted from the Traruactions of the Highland Ag, Soc, 1855, 
pp. 159, 728, by Dr. Anderson. f Ditto, ditto, 1853, p. 510. 



150 

Frooi the abore tdde, it wfll be nen ditf tkeioli. 
tonnmg properties of npe^caike exceed thoK of BiimmmI 
bj 1-84 per caent.; and the &l4anniig p rop ei ti w of 
liiifeed exceed thoK of lape bj l-€9 percent.; while 
the phosphates and phosphoric add of rape-aeed exceed 
those ci linseed bj 0-96 per cent.: hence one of the 
reasons far its ralue as a manore. 

Hafing now treated of the compodtion and relathre 
Taloes of the diffe rent descriptions of oil-cakeSy the fol- 
lowing hints opon thor use may not be umnstmctiTe. 

The Taloe of linseed-cake for feeding cattle is too 
well established to need farther comment ; but it slioald 
be remarked that the tat of beasts fattoied upon it is, 
after being cooked, of a loose, flabby texture, and not 
calculated for persons of a gross habit of body. I have, 
in more cases than one, seen /ifueedjeffsf used in feeding, 
and consider it infinitely superior; and, when mixed with 
a due proportion of hay or meal, it afibrds an excdlent 
composition for stallrfeeding and fattening. There are 
several methods of preparing it ; but the one most gene- 
rally approved is the following: — To seven parts of 
water add one part of linseed ; let it stand for 48 hours, 
and then boil it slowly for two hours, stirring it during 
the time to prevent burning. After boiling, it should 
be poured out into tubs too cool, and mixed with meal, 
bran, or cut chaff. An eminent Leicestershire grazier 
informs me that he has long been in the habit of using 
linseed prepared in this way, and that it is Ids practice to 
give two quarts of the jelly to every large bullock daily ; 
which proportion amounts to little more than half a 
pint of seed per day, and produces a great saving in the 
article of food. There can be no doubt that linseed* 
jelly is more agreeable to cattle than cake, while it is 



CATTLB AND CATTLB-FBBDIVO. 151 

alflb less liable to cause surfeit in case an extra quantity 
should be heedlessly given ; and further, it is less 
liable to affect the meat with a peculiar taste than cake. 
These advantages render linseed-jelly well deserving of 
extensive use, especially as it is much cheaper than cake: 
inasmuch as a ton of English-made cake will cost from 
^sPlO to £12y having the greater part of the fattening 
properties of the seed squeezed out of it, while a ton 
of the seed itself may be purchased for about J&15 to 
JSI69 containing all its valuable constituents entire. 
Moreover, the farmer is liable to meet with adulteration 
in many shapes in the purchase of cake, the extent of 
which he has no means of detecting on the spur of the 
moment ; while, in the case of the seed itsdf, if he pur- 
chases an inferior or a dirty article, he does so with his 
eyes open. 

In addition to the valuable feeding properties of linseed 
and oil-cake, the manure, as before observed, is greatly 
benefited by the practice. It has been found that every 
load of hay, chaff, or dry cut-stuff given to beasts 
fattening on oil-cake yields seven loads of dung of one ton 
and a half each, exclusively of the weight of the cake ; 
and, on comparing the dung obtained through feeding 
with oil-cake with that of the common farmyard, it has 
been proved that, by spreading twelve loads of the former 
on an acre, it yields considerably more produce than 
double the quantity of the latter. 

PULPED FOOD FOR CATTLE. 

The value of pulped food, in comparison with whole 
roots, for cattle, is a subject upon which much difference 
of opinion exists amongst practical men ; and I am free 



152 SCIENTIFIC FARMIKG MADE EASY. 

to confess that I have not sufficient practical knowledge 
to justify me in offering a decided opinion upon th 
matter : the few observations I have to offer will, there- 
fore, be taken for just what they are worth. 

Whatever value attaches to pulped food can arise 
from no other source than that food in that state does 
not require so much mastication as is necessary in a raw 
state ; it is taken in by the animal in a state easier of 
assimilation in the stomach, seeing that, being finely* 
divided, it is more easily acted upon by the gastric juice, 
and is therefore more readily transmitted through the 
first stage of assimilation towards blood ; for it must be 
borne in mind that food of every description must be 
first converted into blood before it can either feed or 
fatten. There is no description of food, however rich 
or nutritious may be its qualities, that can be beneficial 
to the animal frame, unless it easily submits to the solvent 
powers of the gastric juices given out by the secretive 
coat of the stomach. The object of this juice is to 
render it thoroughly soft, pulpy, or semi-fluid ; in this 
state it is passed onward into what is called the duo- 
denum, or second stomach ; here it meets with the bile 
secreted by the liver, and also other juices secreted by 
the pancreas or sweetbread ; and on these becoming mixed, 
the whole is converted into a highly-azotized semi-fluid, 
which physiologists call chyle, a substance which is 
nearly, but not quite, blood. In this state it passes on 
into the large intestines, which are furnished with myriads 
of little mouths, called ^^ chyleous absorbents;^ the 
office of these is to attack the food presented to them on 
all sides, and to suck or absorb out of it all its nutritive 
and fattening properties, or at least such portions of 
these as may come in contact with them. From the 



CATTLB AND CATTLE-FEBDING. 153 

larger intestines the food passes on to the smaller in- 
testines, and these again, being furnished with similar 
mouths, that portion of the feeding properties of the 
food which has escaped their attack in the larger in- 
testines, is here compressed into a smaller substance, and 
subjected to a second attack, till everything valuable, 
capable of absorption, is sucked out of it. The refuse 
is then passed onward, and eventually evacuated. 

This chyle, obtained as described, is carried along a 
series of tubes called ^^ chyle-duct8,'Mead]ng to the lungs; 
I have before observed that this fluid is very nearly, 
but not quite blood. On its presentation to the lungs, 
it meets with the oxygen in the air inhaled by the 
animal ; here it undergoes its last chemical change. By 
this action it receives its colouring property, and as- 
sumes that bright vermilion hue which characterizes 
arterial blood. Here, so far as we know, it arrives at 
perfection, attains its vitality, and becomes life itself 
In this state it is presented to the heart, which consists 
of two cavities, or " ventricles '^ as they are called. The 
action of these may be likened to that of a blacksmith^s 
pair of double-action bellows turned edgeways : as one 
cavity fills, the other empties; this is owing to the 
muscles of the heart possessing the power of contraction 
and expansion, which is called its ^^ contractile ^ power. 
No sooner, then, is what we may call the inlet cavity, 
or right ventricle, filled from the lungs, than it con- 
tracts and forces it into the outlet cavity, or left ven- 
tricle. The valve through which it is forced being, as 
is supposed, endowed with a peculiar kind of sensibility, 
closes as soon as the outlet cavity is filled ; that cavity 
then contracts, and forces the blood forward into the 
aorta, or great artery, which rises immediately out of the 



154 8CIEHTIF1C FARMniG MABS BA8T. 

kit yentride of the heart. This great artery fiNmis the 
centre from which numeroos other arteries of smaller 
dimensions take their rise; and these extend throughoat 
the whole animal frame, growing ^ small by degrees, 
and beautifully less^ as they extend, until at length 
they envelop the whole animal structure, in a beautiful 
netwcvk of minute arteries, by whidi the blood is ooo- 
veyed to every part, to strengthen, sustain, and supply 
to the body those substances necessary to replace the 
waste caused by exertion, and to build up the structure 
of the animal during growth. 

Now, every species of exertion has a tendency to wear 
away and destroy some portion of the animal structure, 
and the portion so displaced can only be renewed by the 
blood. From this, therefore, it becomes clearly evident 
that the more finely divided the food when taken into 
the stomach, the more rapidly it becomes elaborated into 
chyme, chyle, and eventually blood itself, and the less 
will be the exertion required from the animal in masti- 
cation, and the less also will be the loss sustained through 
such exertion. Further, the more finely divided the food 
when taken into the stomach, the more finely divided 
will it pass into the duodenum, or second stomach, and 
the more easily will its nutritive properties be taken up 
by the chyleous absorbents. 

Who has not observed, that when a horse has been 
fed upon unbniised barley or oats, those seeds appear in 
the dung in a whole and entire state. Such portions of 
the grain must, undoubtedly, have passed through the 
animal without benefit, and may therefore be considered 
as so much food thrown away. Had they been given in 
the shape of meal, or in a bruised state, their nutritive 
properdea would have been taken up, and the animal 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 155 

proportionably benefited. So with other descriptions of 
food ; and for these reasons I am inclined to the opinion 
that pulped and ground or bruised food must be greatly 
superior to that taken in its raw or unground state. 
Such is my theoretical view of the subject ; but, as I 
have before observed, I have no practical experience to 
support it ; therefore, although it appears to me to be 
a common-sense conclusion, it must only be taken for 
what it is worth. 

As I consider the subject to be somewhat important, 
I subjoin the results of two experiments made with 
pulped food, in order to test it in comparison with whole 
roots, in feeding cattle. The first of these was made by 
Mr. Fordham, of Newbury, who thus describes it : " In 
order to test the method accurately, I purchased, last 
autumn, two three-year old North Devons, at a fair in 
my neighbourhood, for -P14 apiece. They were not in 
good store condition. I turned them into a cattle-yard 
by themselves, and on the 3rd of December placed them 
with the store-cattle, upon 2 bushels of cut oat-straw 
and 1 bushel of pulped swedes, 45 lbs. weight, pulped 
twenty hours in advance, to ferment previous to feeding. 
I continued this food until the 13th of January, when 
they were put upon the fattening food ; 2 bushels of 
pulped mangold wurzel, mixed with one of straw, and 
in addition 3 lbs. of barley-meal per day, until the 
28th of April, fifteen weeks, when they were sold. In 
the course of the day the fattening beasts are well 
dressed with a dandy brush, a most essential thing to 
the animals' happiness. It removes dust, circulates the 
blood, and tends greatly to familiarize them to their 
attendants, the whole being kept particularly cleaxv^ 
removing the droppings whenever tVve \\eTdL«avKc^ ^\^\&^'«»' 



156 



8CIBNTIPIC FARMING MADB EAST. 



The cattle are fed thus, as soon after 6 o^dock a.m. as 
the herdsman can attend to it. Mixture of straw, chaff, 
and pulp roots. The three bushels are divided into five 
parts — they eat their food better. 

.... Mixture. 

.... Straw, cha£^ and 8 lbs. barley-meal. 

.... Mixture. 

.... Mixture. 

.... Mixture. 

.... Straw chaff; clean wheat-straw well 
bedded, to pick oVer the last thing 
at night. All looked at. 

^^ The two North Devons consumed, from Srd Decem- 
ber to 13th January, with 7 lbs. each, equal to 14 lbs. 
cut straw — 

Tons. cwt. qrs. lbs. 

42 days, 90 lbs. of swedes 1 13 3 

40 days, 180 lbs. mangold wurzel . . 3 4 1 4 

65 days, 160 lbs. „ „ .. 4 12 8 12 



V \M \n.\r 


i«A. A..n. . 


11-15 „ 


>» • 


1 ,, 


P.M. . 


* y> 


» • 


5 n 


» • 


« « 


t> 



£. 8. d. 



At 7«. per ton 9 10 

8 sacks of barley-meal at 168, Zd,, 

105 days at 3 lbs. each 

Attendance 



3 16 8 7 



First cost £14 each 



2 8 9 

14 

£6 9 9 

28 

£84 9 9 



Measured fob Wsioht. 



Srd December. ft. ia. Stones. 
No. 1. Length . . 4 7\ 

„ Girth.... 5 11/ 
No. 2. Length . . 4 8 
Girth.... 6 



J9 



'} 



59 

70 



129 



28th April ft. 
Length .... 5 

Girth 6 

Length .... 5 
Girth 6 



in. I 


Stones. 


]} 


851 


1} 


9H 



180 



The two beasts sold for £40." 

The other experiment alluded to was made by Mr. 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING* 167 

M*Laren, farm-manager to Lord Einnaird. This ex- 
periment appears to have been very fairly conducted, 
and is of a more satisfactory character by far than the 
former one. The cattle under treatment were eighteen 
in number, and were divided into three distinct lots. 
The first lot were fed on whole turnips and straw ; the 
second, on pulped turnips, mixed with chaiF, and given 
fresh ; and the third, on pulped turnips mixed with 
chaiF, and fermented. The experiment commenced on 
the 18th of October and ended on the 1st of March 
following, being a period of nineteen weeks; at the 
expiration of the time stated, the respective weights 
gained stood as follows : — 

cwt. lbs* 
Lot 1. Fed on whole turnips and straw, increased in 

live weight 11 53 

Lot 2. Fed on pulped turnips mixed with chaff and given 

fresh, gained in live weight 10 56 

Lot 3. Fed on pulped turnips mixed with chaff and fer- 
mented for 24 hours, increased 12 14 

Consumption. 

Lot 1. Consumed 55 tons 11 cwt. 8 lbs. of turnips, with a steamed 
mess consisting of chaff mixed with 2 lbs. of bean-meal, 
2 lbs. of linseed-meal, and ^Ib. of treacle for each beast 
daily,* costing for the whole 19 weeks the sum of 
£11. Us, lid. 

Lot 2. Consumed 50 tons 16 cwt. 10 lbs. of turnips during the same 
period, and the same value of steamed food; but to this 
has to be added the charge of £4. 10«. as the cost of pulping 
and chaff-cutting. 

Lot 3. Fed on pulped turnips fermented with chaff, consumed 
exactly the same quantity of turnips as the previous lot, 

* The treacle, bean and linseed meal, were first mixed with as much 
hot water as would sufficiently moisten the chaff, the whole being 
placed in a steam chest along with any refuse of cabbage or turnip 
tops, and strongly steamed the day previoua io being -oaodu 



158 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

and they, like the others, consumed £11. 15s. Hd. worth 
of steamed mess ; this also^ as in case No. 2, is sahjeci to 
an addition of £i, 10«. as the cost of pulping and prepa- 
ration. 

These are the facts contained in Mr. McLaren's 
report, simplified, so as to be readily understood, the 
report itself being presented in a somewhat confused 
form. The practical conclusions to be drawn fix>m it 
are the following, viz. : — 

Lot 1. Cost in feeding (taking the valne of tnmips at 7<. 

per ton, and throwing aside fractions) £, s. d. 

Turnips, 55 tons 11 cwt. 8 lbs. at 7«. 19 9 10^ 

Steamed mess, &c 11 15 11 

As the cost of 11 cwt. 58 lbs. of increased live 

weight 81 6 

Lot 2. Cost in feeding : — 

Turnips 50 tons 16 cwt. 10 lbs. at 7« 17 15 8 

Steamed mess, &c 11 15 1^- 

Cost of pulping, &c. 4 10 

As the cost of 10 cwt 56 lbs. of increased live 
weight 84 9^ 

Lot 8. Cost in feeding precisely the same as Lot 2 ; 
the only difference being that in Lot 2 the 
pulped food was given fresh, and in Lot 8 it 
was given after standing to ferment for the 
space of 24 hours. Therefore cost of feeding 
and attendant labour 84 9^- 

For an increased live weight of 12 cwt. 14 lbs. 

The foregoing facts justify the following deductions, 
all other things being equal, viz. :— 

Whole turnips and straw are superior to pulped turnips and chaff in 
a fresh state, in the following ratio ; t. e, the raw food (Lot No. 1) cost 
£81. 58., and produced 11 cwt. 58 lbs., or 1,285 lbs. of meat. The 
fre^ pulped food cost £84. Os, 9^, and produced only 10 cwt. 56 lb&, 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 159 

or 1,176 lbs., whereas it ought to haye produced, to make it equal to 
No. 1, 1,899 lbs. ; but as it produced ooly 1,176 lbs., there is clearly 
a loss upon using fresh pulped food when compared with whole roots 
and cha£f, to the extent of 223 lbs. of meat, which, if we estimate it 
at 6d, per lb., will amount to the sum of £5. 11«. 6d. Fresh pulped 
food is therefore clearly out of the question as to its feeding qualities. 

In the case of No. 3, vrhere fermented pulped food 
was used, the cost being precisely the same as in Lot 2, 
the fermented food gave 1,358 lbs. of meat, when, to 
make it equal to Lot No. 1, it ought to have been 
1,399 lbs.; the loss in this case being 41 lbs., which, 
estimated at 6d. per lb., as before, will amount to 
£1, Os. 6d. It would appear, however, that the fore- 
going experiments were not satisfactory to Mr. McLaren, 
and he therefore commenced a second series of experi- 
ments upon the same number and same kind of animals, 
only selecting them one year younger than the former. 
This experiment was commenced on the 8th of Novem- 
ber, 1856, and concluded on the 9th of April, 1857: — 

Wbiohbd. 
Not. 8, 1856. Apr. 9, I867. 
cwt. lbs. cwt. lbs. 
Lot 1. Six heasts fed on whole turnips 

and straw 5i 54 75 

Lot 2. Do. do. fed on pulped turnips 
gi?en fresh mixed with chaff, 
&c 54 68 79 28 

Lot 8. Do. do. fed on pulped turnips 
mixed with chaff, &c. and fer- 
mented 54 28 78 7 

After calculating the difTerence in cost of the re- 
spective food given to each lot, and making all ne- 
cessary deductions on account of labour, &c., Mr. 
McLaren found the profit from feeding these different 
lots in 1856-7 to be as follows : — 



160 SCIEITTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

£. s, d. 

Lotl 15 17 i 

„ 2 28 15 10 

„ 3 22 14 4 

In noticing these experiments, the Journal of the 
Transactions of the Highland Society contains the 
following comments : — ** That although there has been 
some variation as to the largest increment this season, 
it being on the lot consuming unfermented pulp, 
whilst last year these were much in arrear, still the 
general result has been that the pulping of turnips is 
a saving of the root in feeding cattle. At the same 
time it is not to be forgotten that, in a feeding expert-^ 
ment, much depends on the accident of a well or an ill- 
feeding beast being in one or other of the lots. It is, 
indeed, almost impossible to find any two animals feed 
alike, however well selected or attentively looked after ; 
still, the average of six cattle in each lot should give 
a pretty fair test to judge by ; but one set of trials can 
hardly be held to be conclusive in determining either 
success or failure of any system.*'" — (7*. H, S. 1858, 
p, 153.) 

COOKED FOOD FOR CATTLE. 

Whatever may be the comparative merits of pulped 
and whole roots, there can be no doubt with respect to 
the advantage of feeding stock upon cooked, or partially 
cooked food, in preference to giving it to them in its raw 
state. Animals were unquestionably designed by nature 
to eat their food raw, that is, while living in a wild 
state ; but, I greatly doubt whether nature ever contem- 
plated the contingency of their existing in the very 
artificial state which modern science requires them to 



CATTLE A^'D CATTLE-FEEDING. 161 

submit to, or ever contemplated that a period should 
arrive when from sixteen to twenty weeks would be 
found sufficient to convert a lean beast into a fat one. 
That such is now the case, however, the experiments con- 
tained in the preceding chapter are sufficient to show. 

The great object in cattle-feeding, as it appears to me, 
is to get as much solid food into the stomach of the 
animal as the gastric juices supplied by the secretory 
coat of the stomach is capable of readily converting into 
blood, and to reduce as much as possible the time re- 
quired for mastication. Nature was evidently aware, 
when she first formed the ox and the sheep, that, from 
the peculiar construction of their teeth and jaws, and 
the character of the food destined for their use, the 
latter would be difficult of assimilation; hence she 
supplied them with a second stomach, so that, during 
the time for feeding, their food might be taken in large 
quantity into the first stomach, and there retained in a 
partially masticated state, until the animal had taken 
quite sufficient for its purposes; and that, when in a state 
of rest, this could be returned to the mouth to undergo 
a second process of mastication, so as to thoroughly 
disintegrate it, and in this state present it to the second 
stomach, where it could be operated upon by the gastric 
juices there poured out upon it, and be thus forwarded 
a step onward in its process of assimilation. 

I am always happy to quote Mr. Alderman Mechi 
when I can do so consistently with my own convictions ; 
and I boldly assert, although sophistry may evade 
and bigotry deny the fact, that Mr. Alderman Mechi 
has done more than any one man of the present age 
in improving the practice of farming. I therefore 
hail with delight, from so eminently practical an au- 

M 



162 SCIBKTIFIC FARMING MADE BAST. 

thority, the following views and sentiments enunciated 
bj him:* 

^' Were we to treat our bullocks and our sheep as we 
do ourselves and our riding-horses, — keep them clean, 
warm, dry, and well fed, we should increase strangely 
the quantity and quality of our animal food. 

^' Let us imagine ourselves standing or lying day and 
night for months in the moisture and effluvia of our 
own accumulated excrements, uncleaned and ill-fed : it 
won't bear thinking of; and yet this is how most farmers 
treat their cattle. Their food is presented to them in 
large unmanageable masses, with abundance of dirt (a 
corrector of acid it is called), uncooked and unprepared. 
We need not wonder at having to stab our bullocks to 
let out the accumulation of windy flatulence, or forcing 
strange-looking machines down their throats to remove 
solid lumps of unmasticated roots. We need not wonder 
at foot-rot, fevered feet, and other complaints. The idea 
of a man swallowing a quantity of frozen turnips on a 
frosty day, without a bit of bread, absorbent, or stimu- 
lant of any kind ! ! ! It is too ridiculous to think of. 

^' I will lay it down as an indisputable fact, as proved 
by our greatest breeders of animals, that we must apply 
to them the same treatment as we would to ourselves, if 
we wish to render them profitable. It is high time we 
amended our absurdities in this respect, or we shall have 
Spain, Portugal, or other warm and genial climes, stock- 
ing us with what we ought to produce ourselves.""!* 

* How to Furm. profitoMyt p. 45. 

t The importation of foreign cattle is iocreasiDg more rapidly than 
farmers may be apt to imagine. From official returns I find that the 
import of animals living, — namely, oxen, bulls, and cows, in the year 
1844, was 1,237| while the number imported in 1859 amounted to 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 163 

Without indulging further in matters of a purely 
speculative character, I proceed to lay before my readers 
a few of the results collected from the reports of some 
of our most eminent agriculturists in differents parts of 
the country. And as these experiments were made at 
different times, under different circumstances, with 
different descriptions of cattle, and in different parts of 
the country, they are entitled to be considered as con- 
clusive as to the merits or demerits of the practice. The 
following is the result of an experiment made by 
Mr. HuTTON,* of Sowberhill, near Northallerton, York- 
shire :— 

** In the first week in April, 1846,*^ says Mr. Hutton, 
'^ I put up 60 head of cattle on prepared food, and 
found the plan to answer remarkably well ; of these, about 
20 were in a very forward state, and they were allowed to 
have prepared food at the rate of 58, Sd. per head per 
week. They made great improvement, and were sold on 
the 9th July, several of them fetching £^0 each.^ 

The following is a specification of the food, and the 
cost of preparing it, as furnished by Mr. Hutton :-^ 

Fob onb Beast feb Week. £. s, d, 

18 lbs. of Unseed, bruiBed, or 2 lbs. per day for six 

days, and 1 lb. for Sunday 1 9 

32ilb8. of ground com, or 5 lbs. per day for six 

days, and 2ilbs. for Sunday, at Id. per lb. . . 2 S 

35 lbs. of Swede turnips, given twice a day, and 

thrice on Sunday • 1 6 

Goals, lid, ; labour on each beast, Qd 7^ 

tTotal expense of each beast 6 6i 

62,018 ; and that the importation of other descriptions of live cattle 
bad increased in like proportions. 

^ Mr. Hutton occupies about 1,500 acres of land, and is a noteci 
stock-feeder. 

M 2 



164 SCIBVTIFIC TAUm^Q MADB EAST. 

In order to test the compantiye value of giving cooked 
food to cattle in preference to raw, Mr. Hutton put up 
two lots of cattle, feeding tbem for eight weeks, the one 
lot with oil-cake, turnip, and straw ; the othar lot with 
linseed cooked, ground grain, cut-straw, and turnip. 
^* The latter lot,^ he observes, ^ cost the least to feed^ 
and paid the best when sold.*^ And he further remarks 
that he approves of the cooked food plan for stall-fed, 
store, dairy, or young cattle — ^regulating the supply and 
quality according to each class. It answers also equally 
well for horses and sheep ; and in conclusion he says : — 
^^ What I have seen of this system convinces me that 
certainly double the qtKmtity of stock can be maintained 
with the same quantity of turnips as was consumed by 
the old method of feeding cattle. The manure is of the 
best quality, and very soon fit for use. No manure I 
have seen has equaUed in efficacy that derived from this 
process. Hence it is hard to fix any precise limits to the 
number of stock that may be maintained on a farm with 
a moderate supply of turnips, when this method is 
rightly carried out and persevered in.** 

Mr. H. S. Thompson, of Moat Hall, near York, 
states that, having found his previous system, viz., that 
of feeding upon oil-cake instead of linseed cooked food, 
to work well, " I determined to give it a fair chance 
against the new one ; and I accordingly selected two of 
the most thriving of a lot of 12 bullocks, of nearly the 
same age and condition, and fed them for the first month 
on the food I had been in the habit of giving ; viz., 
swede turnip, linseed-cake, and bean -meal, in the pro- 
portions stated below. Two others, of nearly equal 
weight, had their food prepared according to your 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDIMO. 165 

(Mr. Marshairs) directions."* All four were weighed at 
the commencement of the experiment, viz. April 11th, 
1846. Their weights are given in table No. 1. The 
numbers are the numbers of their stalls, to prevent 
mistakes. Nos. 8 and 9 were fed in the new way ; Nos. 
12 and 18 in the old. They were weighed a second time 
on the 16th of May. 

Tablb No. 1. 

No. of live weight, live weight. Increase in 

stall. April 11. May 15. weight. 

St. lbs. St. lbs. St. lbs. 

8 88 8 88 4 4 10 

9 79 8 86 1 5 7 

12 81 85 2 4 2 

13 85 89 4 

^^ Thus it will be seen that the bullocks fed on the old 
plan gained 8 st. 2 lbs* in five weeks ; and those fed in 
the new way gained 10 st. 3 lbs. in the same time. As I 
was convinced that the two bullocks which had made 
the least progress were, nevertheless, the most thriving 
animals, I for the next month fed all four alike, viz., on 
swedes, mangold wurzel, and your prepared food. The 
results are as follows : — 

Tablb No. 2. 

No. of Live weight, Live weight. Increase in 

BtaJl. May 15. June 15. weight. 

St. lbs. St. lbs. St. lbs. 

8 88 4 92 4 4 

9 85 1 90 12 5 11 

12 85 2 92 7 7 5 

13 89 96 7 



^ This letter is extracted from Mr. Marshall's Prize Essay on the use 
of cooked food for cattle, which first appeared in the Transactions of 
the YorhUdre Agricultural Society; the directions alluded to being 
those given by Mr. Marshall. 



166 SCIENTIFIC FARMIKG MADE EASY. 

^^ The impression that the bullocks Nos. 12 and 13 were 
better thrivers than Nos. 8 and 9$ was, it will be 
observed, fully borne out when the four were fed alike, 
the latter two having made 14 stone 5 lbs. in 81 days, 
and the former only 9 stone 11 lbs. If we compare the 
increase of weight of the two bullocks, Nos. 12 and 13, 
when fed on the old plan for 34 days, viz. 8 stone 2 lbs., 
with the increase of the same bullocks when fed on your 
plan for 31 days, viz. 14 stone 5 lbs., the superiority of 
the method is very apparent. The 12 bullocks men- 
tioned above, were in March taken lean from the straw- 
yard, — quite unfit, in fact, for tying up to feed, except 
by way of experiment ; yet they made such rapid pro- 
gress that some of them were sold to the butchers at 
Is, Sd. per stone at the end of May ; and the last were 
sold the third week in June in good killing condition.^ 

I could add many more experiments of this sort, 
having now before me no less than 103, taken from 
almost every county in England and Scotland, all bearing 
witness to the same facts. I shall, however, content 
myself with one more extract from Mr. Mechi's book, in 
order to show what may be done on a small farm, with ade- 
quate capital well applied. By adequate capital I mean 
certainly not less than £10 per acre, but rather £12 to 
£15 per acre ; for it cannot be too confidently asserted 
that a farmer will do better with a balance at his banker^s, 
although he may not receive interest for it, than when 
he is obliged " to live from hand to mouth." Without 
such a balance, he micst sell to meet his necessities, 
whether markets be good or bad ; with such a reserve 
fund, he can bide his time. Besides, if a farmer can pay 
for his oil-cake, linseed, or manures within a month 
after delivery, he is sure of a discount of at least 5 per 



CATTLE AKD CATTLE-FEEDING. 167 

cent., and upon his wheel wright^s and blacksmith^s bills, 
as well as for his implements, at least 10 per cent. It is 
therefore evident that a sufficient balance at his banker's 
to meet these contingencies will be of great advantage. 
In speaking of the farm I have before alluded to, 
Mr. Mechi states (p. 82) : — 

^^ To me the most interesting operation was the ma- 
nagement of a small off-hand farm of 52 acres.* It is an 
example worthy to be followed, where there are small 
holdings and limited means. It may readily be imagined 
that in its primitive state it produced neither much meat 
nor corn. The fields being enlarged and the land 
drained, I was most agreeably surprised to find 27 
bullocks fattening, tied up on boarded floors in what 
had recently been a barn. There was the necessary ac- 
companiment of a copper for cooking, a corn-bruiser, a 
turnip-cutter, a chaff-cutter, and a thrashing-machine ! 
Do not be alarmed, gentle reader, — a real thrashing- 
machine on a 52-acre poor farm. Well there it was, a 
hand thrashing-machine, by Barrett, Exall, & Co.; but 
his lordship would not suffer such a barbarism as to 
make a beast or a steam-engine of mind and matter com- 
bined. No; a simple over-shot water-wheel, supplied 
from the hill, gave power and velocity to all the ma- 
chines I have described ; and at what cost, think you ? 
—-about £6S for the whole. I buttoned up my coat and 
felt resolved that old England could and should feed 
her own population; ay, and employ them too. But 
where is the food for 27 bullocks ? All provided, now 
and in futuro. Plenty of oats, of turnips, of tares on 
the wheat-stubble, of clover, and 4 acres of nice watered 

* One of Lord Fortescue's^ near South Molton. 



168 8CIBNTIFIC FARMING MADE £AST. 

meadow, available at almost any period of the summer. 
Plenty of manure in the manure-house, to grow the 
next root crops. No guano bought — nothing but 2 cwt. 
of superphosphate of lime, and the home-made manure. 
Oh ! it was a delightful sight, and a beautiful land- 
scape. But let us leave off the enthusiastic for the 

practical. Here were the elements of compound fertility 
and reproduction : — The produce of the farm is to be 
beef, pork, and wheat ; depend upon it, if the animals 
do not pay (which I do not admit), they leave us a 
legacy, without which, as farmers, we cannot succeed. 

" * Oh ! but,' says some lynx-eyed critic, * where are 
your horses, Mr. Mechi ?' Ay, where are the horses? 
Why, I am happy to say, nowhere on this 62-acre 
farm ; but I saw a pair of young Devon bullocks 
(capital beef they will make some day) ploughing deep 
and well an acre per day. These are the horses ; they 
take their place and food beside the other bullocks. In 
fact, one of the most pleasing symptoms of my visit was 
not to find a horse (excepting three or four condemned 
ones) on his lordship^s great farm.^ 

In conclusion, I may observe that so obvious are the 
advantages of cooked food, that its use is now gradually 
and steadily becoming the rule instead of the exception. 
Yet many there are who even now object to it, on account 
of the extra trouble it causes, and the trifling outlay 
requisite for the necessary apparatus. With men of this 
class, — and, alas ! they are but too numerous, — there 
is nothing for it but first to raise their rent, and if no 
improvement should then take place, to turn them out 
at once ; they are utterly incapable and unworthy to 
farm, — they are past cure. 



CATTLE AND CATTLK-FKBDINO. 169 

OVERFEEDING CATTLE. 

The subject of overfeeding cattle has lately been 
brought somewhat prominently before the public, by 
Mr. Grant, surgeon to the Royal Free Hospital, London. 
His observations arose from what he saw of the prize^ 
cattle slaughtered in the butchers^ shops after the Smith- 
field cattle-show in 1858. He observes that overfeeding, 
especially laying on fat to the extent which is now 
practised, has a tendency to produce disease : *^ Were a 
man in this condition to present himself to an insurance 
office, it would refuse to insure his life at any premium. 
Yet, under similar circumstances, a sheep is awarded 
gold and silver medals, and its feeder a prize of £S0. 
Under the present system, the public are not insured the 
best, if, indeed, the cheapest food. The bulky withers 
of a fat bullock are no criterion of health; for his 
fat tabular back may conceal the ravages of disease. 
AH this can alone be disclosed by inspection after death. 
The flesh of animals which has been produced by organs 
themselves diseased, is itself also necessarily deteriorated^ 
and ought not to be regarded as prime samples of human 
food.^ 

In reply to all this, I am quite prepared to admit 
that overfeeding has a tendency to produce disease, 
and to shorten the duration of life; that an insurance 
oifioe would be therefore perfectly right in declining a 
proposal from an habitual gourmand, as much so a3 
from an habitual drunkard ; and, if a farmer^s object in 
fattening his cattle up to a high degree were simply to 
cause longevity, I should say Dr. Grant'*s observations 
would be perfectly applicable ; or, even supposing that it 
was intended to continue the fattening process for as many 



170 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

months as it is now practised for weeks, I should still 
say the argument was a sound one : but this is not so. 
The period of fattening is generally confined to a period 
of about four or five months ; and if either the lungs 
or the digestive organs of the animal were diseased, it 
would not take on fat at all ; it is, therefore, perfectly 
dear that the beast must be in good health when the 
fattening process commences. A constitutional disease, 
such, in fact, as could deteriorate the quality of the 
food, must arise from an impurity of the blood, and this 
would lead to inflammation, and most likely end in 
fever ; and either of these, even in an incipient state, 
would be sufficient to prevent the process of laying on 
fat. On the other hand, if by overfeeding such a high 
degree of temperature be produced in the venous blood 
of the animal, inflammation of the lungs might ensue, 
and that again would indeed effectually prevent the laying 
on of fat, by causing the death of the animal, particu- 
larly if the overfeeding process were persisted in. If, 
again, the lungs of the animal were diseased before the 
fattening process commenced, that would induce con* 
sumption ; and whoever heard of a consumptive man or 
animal ever getting fat ! But, it may be objected that the 
disease may arise from the fatty degeneration of the 
heart. Granted again: nothing is more common in a 
fattened beast. But fat always accumulates on the 
outside, and not in the inside of that organ, and it is 
with the inside we have to do. The accumulation of fat 
round and about the heart has undoubtedly a tendency 
to obstruct its power of expansion and contraction to a 
considerable extent ; in fact we know this must be so, 
otherwise the fattened animal would be just as lively as 
the lean one, whereas it is always more sleepy and in* 



CATTLE AND CATTLE- FEEDING. 171 

dolent. But this is no criterion by which we can come 
to the conclusion that the flesh of the animal is deterio- 
rated in quality for human food ; and I have yet to 
learn the difference, chemically, between this fatty 
matter formed round the heart and cod-liver oil, so 
strongly recommended by the faculty. Verily, Mr. 
Grant, the dilemma has many horns, and the next time 
you wish to frighten the public out of prize-cattle-show 
meat, you should begin with something better than beg- 
ging the question. 

Still I think there may be useful matter for reflection 
in Mr. Grant'^s remarks, in so far as they may induce 
stock-feeders to adapt experiments to determine the 
respective fitness of different breeds of stock to take 
on fat; and it might be worth while to see also to what 
extent this could be done without injury to either the 
animal, farmer, or consumer. 

COMPARATIVE VALUE OF FODDER CROPS. 

The subjoined table of the comparative value of fod- 
der crops cannot prove otherwise than useful, as it will 
enable the farmer at once to determine the amount of 
fat-forming and flesh-forming compounds contained in 
each particular article of food; and will, therefore, 
furnish a good criterion for him to go by. I have several 
tables of this sort before me, but prefer the one published 
by Professor Johnson as the most simple and comprehen-^ 
sive. It will be remembered that the husk or woody 
fibre is indigestible, and, therefore, nearly valueless — 
except for such phosphoric acid as it may contain, useful 
in furnishing bone ; and that the starch, gum, and sugar 
indicate the fat-forming properties, and the gluten, albu- 
men; and caseine the^flesh-forming properties of the food. 



172 



SCIBNTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 



p 

00 



op 
CI 



09 



to 

m 

eo 



s 



o 



o 

••a 



2 5 

00 00 

o o 



o 



§ 

p 

o 

o 



p 
CI 



00 



CI 



«0 



09 



p 

00 



• • 

o o 



00 to 

• • 

o o 
















>o 




o 


to 


^> 


v> 


l-t 


eo 


C9 


o 


• 


• 


• 




• 


• 


• 


• 


00 


"* 


C9 


•^ 


t>. 


o» 


C9 


CI 


CI 


09 


tH 


I-< 











C9 eo CO 




oopoooooooo 
ooooooc^ooaoo 

'^aO«O^^^r-trHi-ie000 



o 

PR 
o 






o 

o 



p 

00 



O 

»o 



o 

CI 



o 
eo 



to 
ci 



o 
»o 



p 
eo 



p 

00 



ao o 
"* >o 



^ 



CO CO >o <o «<4« ""^t ao 
i-i 1-1 rH r-l r-l tH t>» 



o 


o 


o 


s 


»o 

00 





3 

CI 



t 

s 









3 






s. 



1 



^ 

s 

^ 



••a 
m 



S & A S ^ 6 ^ 



^ 6 



CATTLB AND CATTLE- FEEDING. 173 

Upon grinding, 14 lbs. of good wheat ought to yield, 
on the average, 13 lbs. of flour; the same quantity of 
barley, 12 lbs. ; and of oats, only 8 lbs. 



THE USE OF SALT IN FEEDING CATTLE. 

The value of salt in feeding cattle has long been 
known, and it is somewhat strange that its use is not 
more general. Salt not only contributes to the health of 
cattle and sheep, but accelerates their fattening, and 
promotes the quantity of milk given by cows. It pre* 
vents the rot in sheep, and the effect of hoving when 
stock are fed on turnips and clover. I have before 
observed that salt renders damaged hay more palatable 
and nutritious ; and if applied in difficult seasons, pre- 
vents an undue heat and fermentation in the stack. By 
its use, chaff and straw too are rendered more valuable for 
feeding purposes ; and it has been found of the greatest 
value in preparing cooked food for cattle. 

Mr. Curwen states, " I have long been in the habit of 
using salt as a medicine for cattle ; and from my expe- 
rience of its salutary effects, I consider it one of the most 
useful condiments ever used." 

The following testimony to the value of salt in feeding 
sheep was given by Lord Somerville before a Committee 
of the House of Commons upon the salt-duty. His 
lordship stated : *^ In the spring of 1801 I brought to 
England 200 Merino sheep, which I purchased in Spain 
for about ^4,500 ; and as these sheep had been accus^ 
tomed to the constant use of salt in Spain, I thought 
that in our damp climate, and in the rich deep vale of 
Taunton, where I kept them, it would be absolutely 
necessary to supply them with salt. I continued to give 



174 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADB EASY. 

salt regularly to these Merino sheep, and gradually to 
all my other sheep, from 1801 to 1808 * When I let 
my land in Somersetshire, I purchased a place in Surrey, 
on a sandy soil, on which I continued to reside until 
1815. On this light dry land I did not think it neces- 
sary to go to so large an expense for salt, and I there- 
fore discontinued its use; but for some years I lost 
many of my young sheep, which I am inclined to think 
might have been saved had I continued as before to give 
them salt. I have since purchased a place in Sussex, on 
a clay soil ; have again resorted to the practice of giving 
salt to all my sheep, which I consider absolutely essen- 
tial to their health. And I may say, that from the 
practice of several years, I consider the advantages of 
salt for sheep, and for preserving hay, and restoring it 
when damaged, as practically established beyond contro- 
versy." His lordship further observes : *' I think that 
sheep would require rather more salt in spring and 
autumn, when the dews are heavy, than in other parts of 
the year. In the dry climate of Spain they consume, 
for 1,000 sheep, in five months, only 128 lbs. of salt. 
But more is required in our climate, and still more on 
some particular soils. I use at the rate of a ton of salt 
for every 1,000 sheep annually, and give it them in the 
morning, to counteract the ill effect of the dew. A small 
handful is put on a fiat stone, tile, or slate ; and ten or 
fifteen of these, set a few yards apart, are enough for 
100 sheep. At first the sheep may be moved towards 
them : if they feel a craving for salt, they will lick up 

* At the period of which I am writing, the duty upon salt was 15s. 
per bushel of 56 lbs., or £30 per ton, and large fortunes were made by 
having it weighed and the duty charged at the works, in consequence 
Arit the lazge amoont of moisture it imbibed afterwards. 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 17$ 

quickly as much as is necessary : twice a week has been 
usually found sufficient ; in particular cases it may be 
offered thrice. Of a flock of near 1,000 there were not 
ten old sheep that did not take to it kindly, and not 
one lamb that did not consume it greedily. When 
turnips in the early season are stocked with sheep, and 
the greens are rank and strong, many die suddenly, 
more especially young two-toothed sheep. The disorder 
is pent-up wind, occasioned by excess of fermentation 
in the stomach ; in which case salted hay and salt are 
devoured by them with a greediness that denotes their 
salutary effect. And though the autumn of last year 
was rainy and unfavourable, I did not lose one sheep 
on turnips. And for rot I consider salt as a specific, 
except on land naturally unsound ; and even there the 
disease is much diminished by the use of salt.^^ 

The late J. C. Cur wen, Esq., M.P.,* observes: " I 
give my cows 4oz. of salt each daily; young and 
fattening cattle, 3 oz. ; working oxen, 4 oz. ; three-year 
olds, S oz. ; calves, 1 oz. ; working horses, 4 oz. ; and 
sheep, 2 oz. each per week, given at twice, on slates.'' 

Though the foregoing observations date from the 
early part of the present century, they contain abundant 
matter for reflection ; and if read in connection with the 
remarks made upon '^ the use of salt as a manure," and 
acted upon as common sense dictates, I feel convinced 
that useful results may reasonably be anticipated. We 
have seen with what avidity sheep consume salt; and 
we know that when turned into a partly salted pasture 
they prefer the salted portions. We also know that 

* Author of Himts on Agricultural SviJbjwts, and the BeU Means of 
Improving the Condition of the Labovaing Classes, 



176 SCIEKTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 

horses will eat these portions quite bare before they 
will touch the unsalted parts. Does not all this tend 
to show, first, that salt is highly beneficial to animals ? 
and second, that when properly applied, it not only 
increases the quantity of the crop, but, by checking 
rankness, imparts to it a more agreeable flavour? Cattle 
consequently relish it better and thrive more rapidl)^ 
upon it. 



TEMPERATUEE, VENTILATION, AND CLEANLINESS. 

Without proper attention to these three essentials, it 
is impossible to feed either cattle, sheep, or pigs to the 
greatest advantage. In reference to temperature it must 
be borne in mind, that *^ warmth and comfort econo- 
mize food; that shelter for sheep, dry sheds for cattle, 
warm, yet well-ventilated stables, repay their owner for 
all his care and outlay.^ Ventilation also is equally im- 
portant: to expect an animal to thrive well while 
breathing an atmosphere strongly charged with am- 
moniacal and other noxious gases, is absurd. Pure 
air is as necessary as wholesome food, and, without it, 
neither the health of the animal, nor its aptitude to lay 
on flesh and fat, can be maintained. Mr. Mechi has 
the following observations upon this subject : — " Pig^ 
that lie on horse-dung or heated manure, and then walk 
in the ordinary air, will almost certainly get " heaves ^ or 
lung disease. Non-ventilation, and a putrescent atmo- 
sphere, will produce many diseases amongst live-stock, 
and amongst human beings too.^^ Besides, as Lord 
Kaimes justly observes, " To keep cattle clean is to 
them half food.*" And again Mr. Alderman Mechi very 
sensibly supplements this assertion by stating, ** I have 



CATTLE AND CATTLE-FEEDING. 177 

often been struck on seeing how soon my groom will get 
a horse into condition by warmth, cleanliness, and food. 
The same remark applies to a lady's lap-dog. My 
bullocks are all groomed daily by a boy, whose sole 
occupation it is. The cost is about a farthing per head 
per week, and I am sure it pays.'*' " Let us,'' continues 
the same author, ^^ keep them warm in winter and cool 
in summer — free from tormenting flies. In fact, I shall 
never consider we are perfect till we can keep up a given 
warmth in winter, whilst we have in summer cool and 
shaded paved yards." 

This is plain practical common sense, and as there 
are hundreds of farmers who greatly stand in need of 
the wholesome advice here given them, we hope, for their 
own sake, that they will lose no time in profiting by it. 
Innumerable instances might be quoted, where warmth, 
cleanliness, and ventilation have proved equally im- 
portant with food ; but sufficient has been said to satisfy 
every reflecting mind, how strictly essential is their 
observance, to the well-being of all animals, whether 
intended for food or work. For further particulars 
upon this important subject, our readers may consult 
the valuable essay of Mr. W. Wright in the Journal 
of the Royal Agricultural Society^ vol. xix. p. 600 : it 
is full of the most useful practical information. 



APPENDIX. 



N 2 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX A. 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MECHANICAL MIXTURES AISD 

CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS. 

** In a mechanical mixture," Bays Mr. Sibson {Affric Ohem., p. IS), 
" each constituent remains unaltered in its essential characters, and 
may generally be recognised in the mixture by the naked eye or by a 
microscope, and in most oases may be removed from the mixture by 
mechanical means ; and further, when separated, will be found in the 
same condition as it was before being added. The appearance and 
external properties of a mixture are regulated by those of its con- 
stituents. On the contrary, in a chemical combination, or, as it is 
called, a compound, one substance at least is essentially altered, 
and by no amount of examination by the naked eye or by the micro- 
scope, can the constituent particles be detected. Hence the smallest 
particle is of the same quality as the bulk of the substance, the whole 
being perfectly uniform and homogeneous. Moreover, the qualities of 
compounds are not regulated by those of their constituents. Liquids 
may produce solids ; — gases may produce liquids ; — poisons may be 
formed from innoxious substances ; so that no opinion can be formed of 
the characters of a compound by judging of the qualities of its constit- 
tuents. A few examples will render this more intelligible. — When 
chalk is powdered and mixed with water, a creamy liquid results, 
possessing qualities intermediate between those of chalk and water. On 
standing, the chalk settles to the bottom, and the clear water is the same 
as before the experiment. I^ instead of chalk, we use plaster of Paris, 
the creamy liquid, in this case, will quickly harden, and finally become 
a solid mass ; the water will disappear and no longer be perceptible by 
the properties it exhibits in a liquid form. In this latter case, the 
materials employed have combined together chemically. Again, gun- 
powder is a mechanical mixture, although a most intimate one. It 
consists of charcoal, brimstone, and saltpetre. By washing in water^ 
the nitre is dissolved, and now can be ea&Wy teiao^^^ «.tw\ ^^^-M^Nfe^ 



182 SCIBNTIFIC FARMING MADE BA8Y. 

from the other two ingfredients by filtering and straining. The nitre 
may be obtained in a solid form by evaporating or boiling away the 
clear liquid oyer a lamp or fire until it dries up. The two other con- 
stituents may also be separated by suitable means, not necessary to 
describe here. Each constituent thus separated from gunpowder 
will be found in precisely the same condition as regards its chemical 
characterBy as before being manufactured. But all know that if fire be 
applied to gunpowder, it is instantiy consumed, leaving nothing but a 
small residue ; in other words, its constituents have combined chemi- 
cally — and how different are the resulting cmnpounds. Except a 
trace of solid matter, nothing but smoke is seen ; yet these compounds^ 
with some inyisible gases, contain all the sulphur, charcoal, and nitre 
that existed in the gunpowder. Thes6 materials faave assumed new 
forms, in whidi none of thdr original prc^perties can be recognized. 

'' Another extraordinary propert y of chemical compounds is, that 
they always contain definite proportions of their constituents; from 
whatever source derived, they are invariably of the same composition, 
and possess the same diemical characters. For instance, chalk is a 
compound known as the carbonate of lime : it is fi>und to be precisely 
the same material, whether obtained fitmi chalk rocks, or prepared by 
passing carbonic add into lime-wator. In both cases the chalk is die- 
mically identical, and consists of 22 parts of carbonic add and 28 parts 
of lime. 

** It has been wisely ordered that oxygen and nitrogen in the air 
shall only be mechanically mixed, not diemically combined. Ebd it 
been otherwise, or were they suddenly to combine^ the whole fiuw of 
nature would be altered ; the bland health-giving air would be changed 
into nitric add, or aqua fortis. The only essential diflbrence between 
the air we breathe, and aqua fortis i% that in the air the above gases 
are simply mixed, in the latter case chemically combined." 



APPENDIX B. 

TO DETECT ADULTERATION IN BONES. 

As bone-dust is freqtientiy, and also easily adulterated, I give th^ 
following method for its detection as the simplest with which I am 
acquainted : 1st. Take a &ir sample, say 1 oz. out of the oentre of the 



APPENDIX. 183 

bulk ; dry it upon a plate in a slow oren, at a temperature not exceed- 
ing 250**. After this process, it should lose, when thoroughly burnt in 
a common iron or brass ladle over a strong fire till quite white, about 
one-third of its weight, which is the organic substance of the bone. 
The burnt mass should be scarcely soluble in water, but dissolve with 
very little residue in boiling dilute hydrochloric add (spirit of salts). This 
for practical purposes is sufficient ; as, if adulterated with either 
gypsum, chalk, sand, or salt, the weight of the ash will be gpreater in 
proportion to the extent of adulteration. 

We will, however, pursue the process of this analysis a step further, 
for the benefit of the rising generation of farmers, who may perhaps 
wish to learn how to analyze bone-dust. Having boiled the ash in 
dilute hydrochloric acid, as before directed, filter the solution (which 
may be done in a common glass funnel with a little cotton-wool at 
the bottom), and when so filtered, add liquid ammonia (the best of 
that procurable at the shops will do) : this will cause a precipitate to 
fidl. This must be well washed by pouring rain-water upon it very 
gradually while upon the filter ; after this, it should be first dried on 
a small plate in the oven, at about 250°, and then burnt as before 
directed. In weight it should not be less than two-thirds of the burnt 
bone : it consists of phosphates of lime and magnesia. The substances 
likely to be employed in the adulteration of bone-dust, being those 
before mentioned, they will all be detected by this process. To attempt 
an estimate of the relative amounts of phosphates of lime and magnesia 
would involve a series of manipulations &r beyond what a tyro in 
chemistry could perform, and therefore instructions upon that head 
would be useless here. 



APPENDIX C. 

ADVERTISED CATTLE-FOODS. 

The trade in cicheHtsed ceaUe-foods is assuming dimensions of such 
magnitude, as to render it necessary that the &rmer should be put 
upon his guard in reference to them. Not that I think fiirmers are by 
any means the chief customers of the advertisers ; but still (if the pub- 
lished testimonials are to be depended upon) they do purchase these 
foods to some considerable extent. I have no wish to say " aught in 



184 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EASY. 



maHoe" against them, I amply desire to oautioii the fimner against 
being led away by speoioos adyertisements, yagoe testimonials, and 
ptietorial show-cards. For the most part, these kinds of cattle-food 
are well pat together, and groand remarkably fine, so as to render 
ike detection of their oomponent parts a matter of difficulty. Bnt in 
so far as their feeding and fattening properties are oonoemed, they 
are amenable to the same laws as other descriptions of food, and 
if we cannot arriye at their precise constitaents, we can at all events 
determine their relative valnes, with other articles of food of well- 
known qnality, by a eomparison of their effects. And as these foods 
are sold at from 40«. to 50«. per cwt., they cost about four or five times 
as much as the most nutritious foods now in use. If we compare them 
with other well-known articles of food, we shall find, that to repay the 
finmer money for money, 1 cwt. of these advertised cattle-foods, 
at i58,f should be equal to about 

$, d. £, $» d, 

5^ cwt. of bariey at 8 4 2 5 10 

5 „ oats „ 9 2 2 5 10 

4f „ beans „ 9 -6 2 5 1^ 

4} „ peas „ 9 S 2 5 11 

4^ „ lentils „ 10 2 2 5 9 

4^ „ oil-cake „ 10 2 2 5 9 

2f „ linseed „ 16 6 2 5 4^ 

IH „ W „ 4 2 6 



Costof48i , 18 5 7 

Cost of 8 cwt. of advertised cattle-food, at 45«. ~ 18 

To the latter may be added 6$. 7d, for carriage. To produce equal 
results, 8 cwt. of cattle-food must, therefore, make as much flesh, &c. as 
43^ cwt. of the ingredients mentioned in the foregoing table. But do 
they do so ? All the experiments hitherto made, that I am acquainted 
with, show that the very reverse is the fact, so far as their flesh- and fat- 
forming properties are concerned. Mr. Lawes instituted some compa- 
rative experiments in order to test the value of one of these foods, and 
for this purpose he chose six pigs as nearly equal in weight as could be 
obtained. These he divided into two lots of three each, viz. — Lot 1 and 
lot 2. To lot No. 1 a mixture was given composed of nine parts of 
barley-meal and one part of bran ; to lot No. 2 the same quantity of 
barley-meal and bran was given, with the addition of two parts of manu- 
focturtd cattle-food. In each case the food was stirred up with hot 



APPENDIX. 186 

water, and both lots were allowed as much of their respective foods 
as they chose to eat. The following are the results of the experi- 
ment : — 

Lot 1, Lot 2. 

Nine parts of 
Nine i>art8 of ' barley. meiEd, one part 

barley-meal and one l»»n, and two parts 
part of bran. of the muiufactared 

cattle-fDod. 

No. of pigs 8 ;;....... 3 

Duration of experiment .... 28 days 28 days 

Original weight 357 lbs 355 lbs. 

Final weight 496 „ ........ 494 „ 

Increased weight 139 „ ............ 139 „ 

Total food consumed 547 „ 556 „ 

Food consumed to produce 

100 lbs. of increased weight 393 „ 400 „ 

With these facts before us, the comparative cost of the two experi- 
ments is easily determined : — 

cwt. qr. lbs. 8, d, £. #. d. 

Lot No. 1 consumed 4 116 barley-meal at 8 6 per cwt. 117 3 

„ „ 2 bran at 6 6 „ 3 3 



£2 6 



Lot No. 2 consumed 3 2 25 barley-meal at 8 6 per cwt* 1 11 9 
„ „ 1 18 bran at 6 6 „ 2 9 

3 6 cattle-food at 42 „ 1 14 6 



„ „ V I* V v»««>w-&vw a>w »«. V „ 



£3 9 



It will also be seen that the barley-meal and bran given alone produced 
139 lbs. of flesh and &t, the cost being £2. Oa, 6d., or 3^(2. per lb. ; 
while, on the other hand, the barley-meal, bran, and manu&ctured 
cattle-food, produced the same amount of flesh and &t, at the cost of 
£3. 98., or within a fraction of 6d, per lb. This experiment alone, 
derived from so reliable an authority as Mr. Lawes, ought to be 
considered conclusive as to the true value of these extensively puffed 
" cattle-foods." 

I have been favoured by a friend with the following, as the ordinaiy 
formula for making a ton of one (^ the most extensively advertised of 
these foods : — 



186 SCIENTIFIC FABMINO HADB EASY. 



Carob (locust) bean, cwt.qr.lbs. 

finely ground .... at £6 per ton 6 

Indian com at £7 „ 9 

Linseed-cake at £10 „ 8 

Powdered turmeric at 6d, per lb. 40 

Sulphur atlK „ 40 

Saltpetre at 4i<i. ,, 20 

Liquorice at 10(2. ,, 27 

Ginger at 6(2. „ 3 

Aniseed at 8(2. ,, 4 

Coriander at 8(2. „ 10 

Gentian at 7(2. „ 10 

Cream-tartar at 1«. 3(2. „ 2 

Carbonate soda .... at 4(2. „ 006 

Levigated antimony at 6(2. „ 6 

Common salt at ic2. „ 80 

Peruvian bark .... at 8«. 0(2. „ 4 

Fenugreek (trefoil) . . at 7(2. „ 22 

Total .... 20 



cost mice. 


£. 


«. 


d. 


1 


16 





8 


8 





1 


10 





1 











5 








7 


6 


1 


2 


6 





1 


6 





2 


8 





6 


8 





5 10 





2 


6 





2 








3 











8 


0.12 





12 10 


11 


18 


8 



The above articles are put down at the ordinary wholesale market 
price, but if purchased in large quantities, might be got much cheaper. 
The use of the best linseed-cake is also assumed, when it is by no 
means improbable an inferior description is often used. However, be 
this as it may, a profit of 200 per cent, ought to afford the use of none 
but the best articles. Independently of the slight colouring with 
turmeric and flavouring with liquorice, coriander, aniseed, &c., and 
the medical compounds as before set forth, the main bulk of these 
manufactured foods is composed of the carob bean, Indian com, and 
linseed-cake. These form nine-tenths of its substance ; and it is worthy 
of note, that of these by fiir the most valuable, in point of both price 
and feeding quality, is linseed-cake, and this is used in the smallest 
proportion. It, however, the fiumer chooses to pay three or four times 
as much as the intrinsic value of an article, it is, of course, at his 
option to do so ; but, inasmuch as the main object of firming is a 
remunerative profit, it passes my comprehension to understand how 
that object can be gained by feeding animals on substances that cost 
from £40 to £50 per ton. 



APPENDIX. 187 

The aboTe ingredients, throwing aside all the medioal and flayouring 
oompoundsy give, upon analysis, the following resolts : — 

Water 18*01 

*NitrogeDoii8 (or flesh-forming sabstances) • • 14*97 

Fattymatter 5*78 

Starch, sugar, &o 54*40 

Indigestible woodj fibre 6*25 

Mineral matter, ash 5*59 

10000 
*£qual to nitrogen 2*36 

Such a mixture as the one represented by the foregoing analysis 
could be made by a mixture of barley*meal, beans, and oil*oake, at less 
than one-fourth of the price charged for the before-mentioned oattle- 
food. As to the stimulating properties contained in these foods, I am 
inclined to think their constant use is very questionable, and very likely 
to be productive of harm. 

I have examined no less than four different descriptions of the 
advertised foods, in order to see whether they differed in composition 
to any great extent. They one and all contain full 90 per cent, of the 
ordinary foods of commerce. The following form the main ingredients 
used in the manu&cture of two other cattle-foods now offered to the 
public : as they are both of the same character, it is only necessary to 
designate them as No. 1 and No. 2 :— 

Constituents in 100 lbs. of-— No. i. No. 2. 

Kidney-beans 20 lbs. 10 lbs. 

Barley-meal 20 „ 20 „ 

Oatmeal 20 „ 20 „ 

Rice, ground 10 „ 10 „ 

Linseed, ground 20 „ 20 „ 

Peas 10 „ 

90 lbs. 90 lbs. 

The remaining 10 lbs. in the case of No. 1, comprise Peruvian 
bark, gentian, galingal, nitre, sulphur, resin, liquorice-root, caraway- 
seed, and common salt ; and in the case of No. 2, cream of tartar, 
carbonate of soda, ginger, grains of paradise, and Iceland moss, are 
added to the composition. 

These ingredients are not chosen without some degree of judgment ; 



188 SCIENTIFIC FARMING MADE EAST. 

but, as I have before observed, I yery much doubt the propriety of 
giving these simulants to cattle in their food, as in some conditions 
the use of some of them might prove injurious. The system here 
adopted forcibly reminds me of the old quack system of administering 
a draught to a patient, composed of a drop out of every bottle in the 
shop, when ordinary means had been exhausted without success. 



^— »- 



APPENDIX D. 

6AS-TAB. 

. In piirsuance of the intention expressed at page 76, that I would test 
the effects produced on the growth of potatoes when manured with 
gas-tar, I now proceed to state the result : — 

In the centre of a garden-plot planted with potatoes, in three rows, 
each about 30 feet long, about one gallon of gas-tar was distributed 
between the ridges. Some of them were recently dug up (9ih August, 
1860) and cooked : in flavour and quality they proved to be superior 
to others manured differently; and although not quite so large as 
usual, the yield is greater. It should be observed that the whole crop 
is partially diseased, inclusive of those manured with gas-tar ; but the 
latter appear to be less so than the others. Next year the experiment 
will be repeated upon a larger scale, and an extra quantity of tar will 
be used. 



cox AND WTMAN, VMNT^RS, OBSAT QVKEN STRBBT, LONDON. 




."■y- .-,-%:*-. 




