



Slicir Nu. 



GIVE:^ BY^ 






' ..--^ r- 



T 



/ 



Boston Public Library 

Do not write In this book or ma;-k it with pen or 
.pencil. Penalties for so doing: are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 


This book cvas issued to tlie borrower on the date 
last stamped belac. 


A. PEC SO 








I i 


1 ! 

i • ! 


i ! 




i 

1 














































1 




1 




1 
1 




1 



Eva St. Glair. 



BY G. P. R. JAMES. 

Price 1». each, boards. 

I Margaret Graham. 
Price Is. Gd. each, boards. 



Agincourt. 

Arabella Stuart. 

Arrah Neil. 

Att'la. 

Bbauchamp. 

Castelneau. 

Castle of Ehrenstein. 

Charles Tyrrell. 

Delaware. 

De L'Orme. 

False Heir. 

Forest Days. 

Forgery. 

Gentleman OF THE Old School. 



Heidelberg. 

Jacquerie. 

King's Highway. 

Max-at-Arms. 

Mary of Burgundy. 

^Iy Aunt Pontyiool. 

One in a Thousand. 

Robber. 

Rose D'Albret. 

Russell. 

Sir Theodore Broughton. 

Step.mother. 

VvHiiM and its Consequences. 

Dark Scenes of History. 



Price 2s. each, boards ; or, in cloth gilt, 25, 

Brigand. 
Convict. 
• Darnley. 
Gipsy. 

GOWRIB. 

I^IORLEY ERNSTEIN. 

Richelieu. 



Henry Masterton. 

Hknry of Guise. 

Huguenot. 

John Marston Hall. 

Philip Augustus. 

Smuggler. 

WOOD.MAN. 



*:}:* Mr. James's Novels enjoy a wide-world reputation, and, with the excep- 
tion of Sir Waiter Scott, no author was ever so extensively read. His works, from 
the purity of their style, are universally admitted into Book Clubs, Mechanics' 
Institutions, and private families. 



SIR EDV/AHD BUL^^ITSR I.YTTON'S "WORKS. 

In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling each, boards. 
Leila; or, the Siege of Granada, | Pilgrims of the Rhine (The). 

In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling and Sixpence each, boards. 

ZaNONI. I GODOLPHIN. 



In fcap. 8vo, price 2s. each, boards. 



Lucretia. 

Pelhaai. 

Dkvereux. 

Disowned (The). 

Last Days of Pompeii (The) 

Night and Morning. 

My Novel. 2 Vols. 

Harold. 



Paul Clifford. 
Alice; or, the Mysteries. 
Ernest Maltravers. 
EuGKNE Aram. 
Rienzi. 

Caxtons (The). 
Last of the Barons. 



' England's greatest Novelist." — BiacktvooiCs Magazine. 



London: ROUTLEDGE, WARNE, & ROUTLEDGE, Farringdon Street. 



ROUTLEDGES CHEAP LITERATURE. 



BY CAPTAirj MARRY AT. 

In fcap. 8vo, price Eighteenpence each, boards. 

Newton Forstkr, 
Dog Fiend iThei. 



Peter Simple. 

MiDSHipjMAN' f:asy (Mr.). 

King's Own (The). 

Rattlin THE Reefer. (Edited.) 

Jacob Faithful. 

Japhet in Search of a Father 

Pacha of Many Tales (The). 



Valerie. (Fdited.l 
Poacher (The). 
Phantojm Ship (The). 
Percival Keenk. 
Frank Mildmay. 



♦' Marryat's worlds abound in humour— real, unafTected, buoyant, overflowing 
humour. IMany bits of his writings strongly remind us of Dickens. He is an in- 
corrigible joker, and frequently relates such stran je anecdotes and adventures, that 
the gloomiest hypochondriac could not read them without involuntarily indulging 
in the unwonted luxury of a hearty cachinnalion." — Dublin University Muifazine. 



BY TKS RIGHT HOI^T. B. 
Price 1*. C(^ each, boards. 



DISRABIiI, 



The Voujjq Duke. 
Tancred. 
Venetia. 
Contarini Fleming. 

Price 2s. each, boards 

Henrietta Temple. | 



coningsey. 

Sybil. 

Alroy. 

IXION. 

or, in cloth, 2s. 6d. 
Vivian Grkv. 



BY J. P. COOPER. 

In fcap. 8vo, price Eighteenpence each, boards; or, in cloth, 2$, 



Last of the Mohicans (The). 

Spy (Thei. 

Lion- l Lincoln. 

PiL^^ (The). 

Pid. , fiRS (The). 

Sea LfoNS (Tlrj). 

Borderers, or Heathcotes (The). 

Bravo (The). 

Homeward Bound. 

Afloat and Ashore. 

Satanstoe. 

Wyandotte. 

Mark's Rkef, 

"Cooper constructs enthralling stories, which hold us in breathless suspense, 
and make our brows alternately pallid with awe and terror, or flushed with 
powerful emotifm : when once taken up, they are so fascinating, that we must i)er- 
force read on from beginning to end, panting to arrive at the thrilling denoue- 
ment."— Dublin University Maiiatine. 



Deerslayer (The). 
Oak Openings (The). 
Pathfinder (The). 
Headsman (The). 
Water Witch (The). 
Two Admirals (The). 
Miles Wallingford. 
Prairie (Thei. 
Red Rover (The). 
Eve Effingham. 
Heidenmauer (The). 
Precaution. 
Jack Tier. 



THE USEFUL LIBRARY- 

In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling each, cloth limp, unless expressed. 



1. A New Letter Writer. 

2. Home Book of Household Eco- 

NO.MV. 

3. Landmarks of History of Eng- 

land. Ifi.Ctd. 

4. Landmarks of History of 

(JREKCE. \8.C)d. 

5. CoMMO.v Things of Every-dav 

Life. 



(i. Things Worth Knowing. 
7. Law of Landlord and Tenant. 
«. Lives of Good Servants. 
.0. History of France. 
It). Law of Wills, Executors, and 

Administrators. 
11. Domestic Cookery, by Mrs. Run- 
deli. 



London: ROUTLEDGE, WARNE, & ROUTLEDGE, Farringdon Street. 



^^ 



~.>%4^^^ 










IfiOM A PUOTOGKAX'H UX nEBiiEEt WATKI^fi, liio, KiiUEMa'-SXltEJil. 



THE 

DINNER QUESTION: 

OB, 

HOW TO DINE WELL AND ECONOMICALLY. 

COilBINING 

%\n llu^iinciits d Caolienr 

TVlTll 

USEFUL HINTS ON DINNER GIVING AND SERVING, 

AND OTHER HOUSE EOLD WORDS OF ADVICE: 



GAUNISHrD WIIH 

ANECDOTES OF EMINENT COOKS AND EPiCURES> AS WELL 

AS WISE SAWS IN GASTRONOMY EKOM THE 

GREAT MASTERS. 



BY 

TABITHA TICKLETOOTH. 



V 

'« 



tiONIiON: 
ROUTLEDGE, WARNE, AND ROUTLEDGEi 

rAERINGDON STREET. 

NEW YORK : SG, WALKER STREET. 

ISGO. 

iTiiii Author reit-.ces the rijhl of Ti'audutioii.j 



lOITDOlr : 

BAVILL AXD EDWAEDS, PEI>-TEBS, 

CHAKDOS SIREEI. 






CONTENTS, 



PAGE 

IXTEODUCTIOX 7 

LETTER OF '' G. H. 11." IN THE " TIHES " 8 

SEEVICE A LA KUSSE • 11 

''punch's" dinners for snobs 13 

DOJIESTIC COOKERY 17 

PLEASURES OF THE TABLE 17 

HINTS TO THE NEWLY MARRIED 18 

HOW FURNITURE SHOULD BE BOUGHT 18 

CARE OF THE TEETH 20 

EARLY RISING 21 

COALS AND WOOD 22 

KITCHEN UTENSILS 23 

ADVICE TO COOKS 25 

GOLDEN RULES FOR THE KITCHEN 25 

BOILING 27 

STEAYING 28 

PREPARATORY BROWNING . 29 

ROASTING 29 

GRAVIES 31, 83, 85, 8G 

BAKING 32 

BROILING 33 

FRYING 34 

PHILOSOPHY OP COOKERY 35 

CAUSES OF BAD COOKERY 36 

CULINARY REFORil 37 

RECEIPTS FOR PLAIN DISHES 38 

THE SECRETS OF FRYING 42 

COOKING IN THE CEIJIEA 57 

SAUCES 50, 83, 86, 87, 88, 91, 92, 93, 94 

STOCKS 58 

POT AU FEU, OR BLACK POT 58 

SOUPS ... 60, 62, 63, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 

ilOCK TURTLE AS MADE AT BIRCH'S 64 



VI CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

UELTED BUTTER 89, 90 

VEGETABLES 94 

PUDDINGS AND PIES 110, 119, 120, 121, 130 

DUMPLINGS Ill 

PASTRY 112 

MEDITATION ON A PUDDING 11 -i 

INGREDIENTS FOR PUDDINGS . , • 115 

CHRISTMAS PUDDINGS 116 

RICE 125 

FRUIT PIES AND TARTS 125 

FLAVOURINGS FOR PUDDINGS, PIES, AND SWEET SAUCES . . 126 

GENERAL REMARKS ON FRUIT PUDDINGS AND PIES .... 126 

SOUFFLEES 128 

PANCAKES 129 

MINCEMEAT 130 

MEAT PUDDINGS AND PIES 131 

CRUST FOR RAISED PIES 135 

STUFFINGS 137 

DINING OUT 138 

COUNT D'oRSAY ON PARIS RESTAURANTS 141 

ENGLISH AND FRENCH RESTAURATEURS COMPARED . . . . 143 

LONDON DINING HOUSES 144 

DINNER PARTIES 147 

ARRANGEMENT OF THE TABLE 150 

BEST METHOD OF LIGHTING 153 

PRICE AND CO.'S BELMONTINE CANDLES 154 

BILL OF FARE FOR A PLAIN ENGLISH DINNER 157 

A FRENCH DINNER 158 

REMARKS ON FRENCH COOKERY 164 

RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH DISHES 168 

HOW TO DRESS WHITEBAIT 178 

CARVING 179 

DIFFERENT METHODS OF MAKING COFFEE 182 

CONCLUSION 185 



THE DINNER QUESTION. 



INTRODUCTION. 



As man, 171 his civilized state, is siqjposecl to eat above a 
thousand times in every yea.r of his life, a work which will 
teach him how to vary his food, and prepare it skilfull}', alike 
for the preservation of his health and the gratification of his 
palate, cannot fail to he highl}^ interesting to all classes. 

Brillat Savarin, in his world-famous JPhysiologie du Gout, 
has given ns the foundation of everything connected with the 
" pleasures of the table." Careme, Ude, Francatelli, and a 
host of other renowned "ministers of the mouth," have en- 
deavoured to instruct us how to produce an Omelette Soufflee, 
a Supreme de Yolaillc, Poulets a la Marengo, &c. &c. 
]\Irs. Glasse in the olden time, Mrs. Rundle, Miss Acton, and 
Alexis Soyer in the present, have shown us how to deal with 
more substantial fare; while Doctor Kitchener, perhaps the 
most lucid and practicable of all, has initiated us in the che- 
mistry of food, and revealed the more recondite mysteries of the 
culinary art ; but none of them — and I say it advisedly — have 
given us the exact thing required by Housekeepers with small 
incomes — vh., Plain instructions for the ])reparation of Plain 
Dishes, at the least i^ossihle expense. 

Soyer, in his Shilling Cool^ery for the Million, comes 
nearest the mark ; but he is generally too French in his prac- 
tice, and offers examples which many who have a natural love 
of simple and succulent English good cheer will never follow. 
The great fault of all the Cookery-books I have read (and their 
number has not been small), is, that their instructions are too 
complicated and vague, and address themselves principally to 
persons whose means permit them to keep up a good establish- 
ment, and give dinners. 

Of what use to the wife of- a clerk, at a salary of a liundi-ed 



8 TEE DIN'NER QUESTION'. 

a year, or an artisan at five-and-twcnty sliilllngs a week, is a 
work profusely interlarded with French terms, describing dishes 
the cost of one of which would absorb half a week's earnings ? 
neither, on the other hand, can such a person derive any advan- 
tage from what may be truthfully called IVorl'house Meceipts 
fur tlie 'Preparation of Pauper s Food. 

That the Dinner Question is one of great moment to the 
*•' higher classes," is proved by the shoals of letters which have 
lately appeared in the columns of the Times, in reply to a leader 
depicting the hoii'ors of " dim soup, gloomy cod's head and 
shoulders, relieved b}'- three or four evil side dishes, and followed 
by the inevitable haunch of mutton and pair of chickens ;" and 
calling the Matrons of England '• to spits," to relieve Baker- 
street from the incubus of those set feasts, in which the sarme 
dishes are brought in in the same order, and apparently by the 
same servants. 

ICnight after knight of the spoon and fork has sounded his 
appel and. shivered his lance in support of the transcendant 
merits of La cuisine Frangaise ; while prmcely Amphitryons 
have rushed into print, and discussed the grand question of 
service a la JRusse, at a length and with a spirit vv^orthy the 
effort of repelling an attack on our liberties, or an in&ingement 
on our national rights. 

What can be more exciting — in fact, heart-rending — to a poor 
man of only seven or eight hundred a year, to have all his 
moderate views of domestic comfort annihilated by the follow- 
ing awe-inspiring essay from a "Ten Thousand Pounder," who 
dates from Berkeley-street ? — 

" Let a lady ask her guests to dinner at a quarter to eight 
(or seven, as the case may be), and let dinner be announced, 
coiite qui couie, at eight. 

" Let the guests in no case exceed ten in number, if there are 
ladies ; if only gentlemen, the Koman rule, * no more than the 
Muses.' 

" Let some attention be given to the selection of the guests. 
Bring those together who like, or will like, each other — those 
who, you have heard, Avant to know each other — those whose 
tastes are the same, &c. This is too often neglected. I dined 
the other day at a party of twenty-six, when there was one 
young gentleman of twenty and myself, and not another crea- 
ture under fifty-five or sixty years old. 



LETTER or ^^ a. H, M." IN THE '^ TIDIES." 9 

" Let the lady settle every seat beforehand, with the same 
view in the selection ; and let the husband direct each guest in 
succession to the proper seat. 

" Let her have a round table. 

" Let her have chairs with spring-seats and spring-backs, 
quite unlike ordinary dinner chairs. 

" Let her table be covered, not with the bottoms of wretched 
side-dishes, of which the tops are wanting, but (apart from the 
usual accompaniments of silver, linen, and multi-coloured glass) 
with a grouped abundance of iiowers, green leaves, French 
painted moss, and fruit according to the season. 

" Let these be arranged, if possible, among Dresden or 
Sevres prodactions, with a statuette here of a corbeille-bearing 
child (which corbeille fill with grapes), and another there of a 
shepherdess with strawberries or a pine in her apron ; but, if 
these are not forthcoming, there are few houses where dinners 
are given that have not some pretty objects in silver, biscuit^ or 
the like, to set oft' a table ; and even an ordinar}^ dessert-service 
may be made to look very pretty with the accessories of flowers, 
moss, cakes, and fruit. 

" The two main objects of dessert (beyond those portions of 
it which will be removed from the table at intervals to form 
part of the dinner) are its fragrance and its effect by way of 
ornament. After dining properly, no one thinks, or ought to 
think, of stuffing dessert ; and, with the exception of such parts 
of the dessert as naturally come in during dinner (and this I 
invariably make to embrace a good deal), as melon with roast 
lamb, marrons with capon, olives with ducklings, pine with 
volaille saute au suj>reme, &c., few persons worthy of dining 
will do more than * taste' dessert after dinner. 

'•' Let the room have an overflowing light without heat, but 
not too much light on the table. 

'•' Let the table, arranged with such an entouracje as I have 
mentioned, have on it one vacant spot — and one alone — and 
that one before the host. 

" Let the lady obtain a number of blank menus, and let each 
guest find one of these meims (carefully filled up in a lady's 
hand, and setting out the coming dinner) on his napkin before 
his seat, and if there should be a rose or a bunch of violets by 
its side it will only add to the beauty of the table, and still 
more increase the particular effect to be attained, which is as 



10 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

follows :— When conversation momentarily flags in any quarter, 
you will see the silent or stupid guest at once fly to his menu, 
or his rose, which are always there before him, and it is 
astonishing how soon he revives and joins again in the conver- 
sation. The pause is so much better occupied than by the 
ordinary process of munching bread. 

*'' Let the dinner be served a la Busse — one dish at a time, 
and only one, — one soup, then one fish, and so on. The mis- 
takes of ordinary dinners are too absurd to mention. You see 
two soups and two fish, the former often cold, the latter sure to 
become so while you are eating the former, and not one of the 
four properly adapted for any other. Then you, see (as you 
graphically describe it) two great dishes and four or six side- 
dishes, all prepared at once, all coming up together, all rapidly 
losing their first and proper flavour, and the former of which 
(saddle of mutton and chickens !), if not cold already, must 
become cold while the latter are being handed about to every- 
body in the most incongruous confusion, one which, perhaps, you 
would like passing by because at the time you are eating 
another, a vol-cm-vent offered j'-ou just as you finish houdin de 
veau a la Richelieu ; a third, which you instinctively feel is 
the proper thing at that crisis, and unseen by you heretofore, 
replaced on an empty stand before you at the moment the 
saddle is uncovered, and it is too late ; and a thousand similar 
absurdities — each dish probably very good, perhaps done by a 
real chef, but from the combined want of heat and of head the 
whole is an inextricable fodrida, which is not ' dining.' 

" Let, then, the dinner be served as I have mentioned, one 
dish at a time, and only one. Your correspondent of yesterda}'-, 
who asks for a remedy, talks of giving people ' a choice.' In 
dining there is no choice. After one dish comes the proper 
dish. When offered to you, omit it, if you like ; you may 
injure the edifice ; but don't substitute for it another which 
will also spoil all that comes after. Connoisseurs know that 
the true art, the difficult secret of each cuisine, are ' sauces ' 
and their attributes. Let me taste the productions of any cook 
in the way of three or four foundation sauces, as Espagnol, 
Bechamel, veloute, &c., and I will soon tell you if he is worthy 
to be, or ever will be, a chef. By consequence one of the 
secondary difficulties is ' soups.' Now, of course, it is impos- 
sible here to go at any length into the interior of those menu.<i 



SEltVICE A LA KUSSE. 11 

(varied as they must ever be) which I have recommendec^ should 
be writtea out in a ladylike hand for each guest ; but there are 
two or three things which if ladies will learn, they will soon 
know how to fill up their menus for themselves. Let them 
know, then, that the main importance of a dinner consists, or 
ought to consist, in the entrees (those hapless side dishes for 
which they, the ladies, so often think anything will do). The 
importance of the entrees, again, entirely consists in their sauces 
(not necessarily foundation sauces, but probably deductions from 
them), and according to the two or three distinguishing sauces 
which are adapted for the best forms of the different materials 
which the season of the year allows for the entrees ought to be 
regulated both the earlier and later parts of the dinners. Let 
a lady and her cook then devise how many and what entrees 
there shall be ; and that being settled, let them think, on the 
one hand, of what fish is in season, and how to be dressed, whose 
sauce will not depend on the entrees, and what soup they can 
give, whose consomme or stock shall not be made of the entree 
sauces ; and, on the other hand, let them travel in the opposite 
direction, and think what releves and rotis, and how dressed ; 
and lastly, what game (the latter generally an easy choice) will 
best accord wdth the taste generated by, and yet be totally dis- 
tinct from, the two or three leading sauces. In fact, begin 
with the middle of your dinner, and work outwards both 
ways. 

"I very much doubt the existing routine being capable of much 
improvement, except the modifications I shall mention hereafter. 
You may begin with oysters if you like (a good thing, never 
exceeding from four to six), or with any other hors-cV oeuvre of 
the same wooing nature (the Romans began with eggs) ; but 
next to any such cqopas I am satisfied the true foundation of 
dinner is soup. Soup used to come in as the fourth course, 
reigning Queen Anne, but without being medecins malgre nous, 
in a century and a quarter nous avons change tout cela. 

'• Again, I only give one fish as fish, and that invariably 
after the soup. Other fish may come in as entrees after an in- 
terlude, but this again ranges to the higher branches of art. 
The Germans will give you many a fish au tiaturel after dishes 
such as stewed veal and the like, but such things are barbarisms, 
and in this country at least no one din&s so well as with the 
ordinary and natural sequence of fish after soup. 



12 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

Lot each dish (where necessary) between the fish and the 
relcvts he accompanied h}^ its pecuHar vegetable, and for ordi- 
nary English tastes you must have potatoes as well. As to 
this, I have generally at hand for all the softer kind of entrees 
a gateau aux jjommes-de-terre, almost as fine and light as 
sponge cahe, and made of potatoes, cream, &c. ; and for the 
severer class oi entrees, 2^ommes-de-terre fntes, matt re cV hotel, 
&c., as the case may be. Plain potatoes (one of the best things 
in the world) are perfect with a few releves and some rotis, but 
there are very few entrees that they will not absolutely and 
irretrievably annihilate. Let one of a lady's first lessons be to 
make a potato cake. 

Let there come on after the game (and this invariably) one 
or two vegetables, by themselves. These must be particular^ 
attended to, and many of them, as salsijis a la poulette, arti- 
chaux a la JBordelaise, or a la Barigoule, require some little 
trouble. Still, provided they are not a recurrence of anything 
gone before, the lady will find the trouble not misapplied, for 
they are the natural path leading to the entremets, and if they 
are good and appropriate, the entremets which follow (and which 
have generally given her so much trouble heretofore) need never 
be more than two in number. 

" Let the entremets then succeed, and in the case of a dinner 
such as I have attempted to portray, one at least of those two 
entremets should always be of a light nature. A first-rate 
souffle \& very good for the second one; and if of vanille will 
suit most dinners. Never have a chocolate souffle where a 
leading sauce has been a la Baieliere. 

" Finish between the months of October and May with caviare 
on buttered toast. 

" Let the host carve each dish in succession except the final 
ices. This is not too much to do if the number does not exceed • 
ten. Let the quantity given be small, and, above all, let the 
hot plates for each dish come in with the dish. Of course the 
dishes may be car\red on the sideboard, but I have never found 
a dinner go off so well. Anything which gratifies the sight 
' tells,' and- each dish in succession ought to be a really pretty 
object. Supposing guests to be hungry (and why dine if you 
are not?) each dish, when uncovered, and still more when 
tasted, ought to be the very thing which the prior part of the 
dinner has led you at that moment to desire, and I have found 



"punch's" DINXEES rOR S1>0ES. 13 

this effect is quite lost if nothing is seen but a small por- 
tion on the plate. 

'•' Now, let any lady who has read so far, sit down and cal- 
culate. She will have given one soup, one fish, three or foul* 
entrees (never more), one releve, one rati, one game (generally 
enough, unless j^ou have ortolans or heccoficos for a second), 
two legumes, and two entremets, in all twelve or thirteen plats^ 
atid equally twelve or thirteen courses. She will have probably 
saved five substantial dishes at least, besides I don't know how 
many other entreinets and absiu'dities. She -will have given a 
dinner in which each dish is in its best * form,' in which are 
avoided the awkward cessations from all action and conversation 
which so often occur during the change of the courses, aud (cor- 
rectly done) she will have improved her husband's temper and 
gratified every guest she has. She will have done more — she 
will probably decrease the length of her dinner, while she cer- 
tainly renders it far less tedious, and she will (without fail, if 
she can succeed in one other point) shorten the time that the 
gentlemen sit alone after the ladies are gone. 

" I remain, your obedient servant, 
'' Berkeley-street. G. H. M." 

Who, after reading this wondrous Arabian NigJits' JEnter- 
tainment can be contented with a steak or a chop, a plain joint 
and a bit of fish ? Pimlico and the " Holbom-squares " are 
blotted from the map, and the poor " humbler classes," like the 
Chocktaw Indians, must inevitably be extinguished, did not 
their old friend Punch, who is always on the watch to do " the 
people " a service, thus feelingly advaiice to their aid. 

EifGLISH DIN^'EE3 FOE SnOBS. 

To the Editor of ''Punch:' 

*' SiE, — Since sending to the Times my letter^ of a column 
knd a half in length, in which I laid down the true principles 
on which dinners should be given (or rather exchanged, for I 
need not say that a dinner creates a debt, due from those we 
invite, except where a writer, buffoon, traveller, or other attrac- 
tion is introduced as part of the menu, and, indeed, he ought to 
be written down in it), I have been reminded that there are a 
good many persons in this country who, though neither 
millionaires, nor even possessing a decent income of three or 



14 THE BINNEU QUESTtOy. 

four thousand a year, arrogate to themselves, in this levelling 
age, the right to know what they are eating and drinking, and 
who complain of the present system of dinner-giving. I 
allude to those whom, without my heing unnecessarily offensive, 
I may call Snobs, with perhaps six, seven, or eight liundred a 
year. I have been asked to give, for the benefit of such persons, 
a few hints in the spirit of the letter which I addressed to their 
betters. It is, I fear, almost insulting their wretchedness to 
advise them on such a subject, but it is our duty to help our 
inferiors, and endeavour to make them feel that the state of 
life in which Providence has placed them, to labour, and look 
up to us for direction, is as comfortable as they deserve it 
should be. 

" Of course, I do not speak to them of * dinner at 8,' when, 
if they have worked as they ought to do, they are yawning for 
bed ; of chairs with ' spring seats and spring backs ;' of 
* Sevres china,' * abundance of flowers,' ' child with corheille 
full of grapes,' ' French painted moss,' ' a rose or bunch of 
violets by the napkin,' ' ortolans and beccaficos,' or the other 
necessaries of civilized life. To mock the needy is the basest 
vulgarity. I will merely give the Snobs I have referred to a 
little counsel, derived from practical knowledge of their habits 
and wants. 

" Addressing such persons, I would say, — 

" You had better give no dinners at all. It is for youv 
betters to dine ; you have only to eat. Tea, at five o'clock, with 
plenty of muffins, Sarah Lunnes, and toast, is a more befitting 
repast for you to offer to 3'our friends : and perhaps some bread 
and cheese, spring onions, or even a salad, afterwards, may not 
be regarded as extravagance. Beer is not an unwholesome 
drink for the inferior classes. I suppose that your females 
tolerate tobacco. Why not be content with the enjo^'ments 
natural to your order ? 

" But, if you will imitate your superiors, and ask persons 
to dinner, attend to the following liints : — 

'•' Always invite the wives of your male friends. These 
women will much abridge the evening, being desirous to gQi 
home to their children (for whom, of course, they have no 
nursery governesses and nurses), and they will in some measure 
heck intemperate habits. 

" Give }our meal at 6, as persons of your clabs are un- 



SERVICE A LA WHITECHAPEL. 15 

accustomed to wait so long, and will liave lunched, whereby you 
will save. 

" Make your table pretty, by all means. A plaster cast of 
the Emperor Napoleon, or a (Jhurch with coloured windows, 
for illumination, can be bought for a few pence ; and will lead 
the conversation to politics, or to religion, and kindred sub- 
jects on which your class imagines itself to have a right to 
speak. 

'• To have a menu would be a mockery, but as you, as well 
as we, have ' stupid or silent guests,' let your little boys write 
out on copy-book paper a fcAv maxims, and lay a copy by eacli 
person. ' Gluttony leads to want,' * Temperance proliteth 
much,' ' Let not your Eye be bigger than your bell- Eye,' and 
similar morals, may do good, besides improving your brats' 
writing. Instead of a rose or violet, place by each male 
person a cold saveloy, and by each female a piece of ginger- 
bread, to be ' munched' instead of bread (as in high life) during 
the pauses. 

" Never put tallow candles on the table. A lamp is cheap, 
and if the mistress of the house cleans it herself, will long keep 
in order. 

" No soup that you can make is fit to eat. But oysters may 
begin your dinners as well as ours, only instead of ' four or six/ 
let each person have a couple of dozen, with roll, butter, and 
beer. This will materially help you with the rest of the 
dinner. 

" There is no objection to cheap fish, and I have seen appa- 
rently good fish cried in the streets in which you reside. But 
a few fresh herrings, or sprats, will be the safest. Eemember 
that fish should be eaten with the fork, even though made of 
steel. But albata is not dear, and looks nice, if the mistress 
herself rubs it with wash-leather. 

^'' Instead of the huge, tough, gory joints in which you 
delight, try hashed mutton, Irish steAV, or harico. Fried 
potatoes are a delicacy easily attainable. The mashed potato, 
with small sausage on the top, will wean many a husband — 
not from hi.s club, for you have, happily for you, no such 
temptations— but from the chop-house. Iviarrowbones, when 
you wish to be particularly ' genteel' (as you call it), may be 
introduced. 

"Why have a pudding course:-' Ugly, sloppy, or hard. 



16 TJIE DI^s'NEE QUESTION. 

unwholesome things arc your puddings. Go to a respectable 
grocer's, and ask him for an article called macaroni. He will 
tell you how to cook it. With a little grated cheese, you will 
find it a novel luxury. Treacle on toast will please the 
juveniles. 

" Then your slatternly servant (by the way, insist on her 
washing her face, and wearing a cap — never let her come in 
with her bonnet on) will heave on to the groaning table a 
hemicycle of cheese like half a millstone. Keep this away, 
and have some slices handed round. Dp not, from a foolish 
feeling of * gentility,' deny yourselves onions, which you like. 
You will not be a bit more like us if you never touch another 
onion to 5''0ur lives' end. 

" By all means have what you consider dessert. Apples, 
oranges, and biscuits you have in your gallery at the theatre, 
why not on table ? A drum of figs, covered by one of your 
gii'ls with coloured paper, or stuck over with red wafers, will be 
a tasteful centre ornament, and to the sweet fig you may charge 
the bad taste of your wine. For I suppose you wdll give three- 
and-sixpence, or even four shillings, for this nastiness, though I 
advise (and your females prefer) brandy and water. 

" I tell you frankly not to be ashamed of tobacco-pipes. We 
take a cigarette, and what is that but a tobacco-pipe of paper ? 

" Your best cJiasse is being driven up-stairs to tea. The 
sooner this is announced the better for the temper of your 
females, and for your own heads when you go to your work 
next morning. 

" Keep your children up. If they are tired and cross, it is 
only once in a way. They materially help to break up a party, 
and my object has been to show you how, with your narrow 
means, you may in a humble and cheerful way, imitate your 
superiors, while exercising a wise economy. Let me add, never 
hesitate, if it be a wet night, to send your maid for cabs, instead 
of asking your guests to delay their departure. But give the 
poor girl one glass of spirits ; remember what you save by 
dismissing your friends. 

" If these hints are of any use to persons w-itli not more 
than eight hundred a year, I shall have done ray duty to the 
poor, and remain, 

" Your obedient servant, 

'* Berkeley-street. G.H.M.'' 



DOMESTIC COOEERY. 17 

These " paper pellets of the brain" (for most of the writers who 
have taken such hot part in the controversy, and dilated in such 
glowing terms on the system adopted at their banquets, are 
poor, hard-working IHterateiirs, who live in furnished lodgings, 
and never gave a dmner in theu' lives) have done nothing for 
the advancement of culinary knowledge, for their sublimest pe- 
rorations are laughed at b}^ those who keep great establishments; 
while John Hobbs, the book-keeper at Messrs. Thrograorton's, 
the ship-brokers, or James Clouter, tlie working-engineer at 
]\raudsley's factory, shrugs his shoulders, and says to his wife, 
'' Ah ! I wish instead of all this French flummery, some lady 
or gentleman 'in our way of life would instruct us how to make 
car two pounds or thirty shillings give us better dinners, 
then I'd say something ; but dinners on pamper, and dinners on 
the fable, are wofally different." 

To pamper the appetite with foreign Vicl'shaivs,\\\2id.Q gravies, 
and condiments, is alike incompatible with economy and health. 
The sMlful j)reparation of the meat, and not the variety of its 
sauces, should be the study of the poor man's wife. To know 
how to boil vegetables (particularly potatoes), fty or boil a 
" bit of fish," broil a chop or steak, roast a joint or a fowl, 
concoct a savoury hash, and make a wholesome family pie or 
pudding on sound principles, is to possess a bank of useful know- 
ledge, which never fails to return a ver}^ high interest. 

It matters little to the young housekeeper seeking practical 
instruction in the art of making her home happy, how the 
banquets of Apicius, Lucullus, Prince Talleyrand, the Marquis 
de Cuss}", and other equally renowned pilgrim fathers in the 
" Idolatry of the Stomach," were produced.* This little work 
professes nothing more than to point out to those who, as Dr. 
Kitchener facetiously terms it, " have never shaken hands with 
a stewpan," how to cook a plain famil}^ dinner, on the easiest 
and most economical principles. Fearing, however, that a mere 
collection of receipts and dry instructions for their preparation 
would not, in these days of light literatm-e, be sufficiently 
attractive to the public in general, I have thought it advisable 
to season my narrative witli occasional sprinkles of the cayeniw 

* To the curious in such matters, the pages of Brillat Savarin, Hay ward's 
Essays; "The Pleasures of the Table," in Btutleijs Miscellany; Paris a 
Table, by Balzac ; Count Romford's Essays, and the columns of the Times 
3a January, 1?59, will aiford the fullest information. 



18 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

of anecdote, and a slight diisli of the saiice piquanie of the wit 
and humour of the bygone great patrons of the gastronomic 
art, Avlioso happy thoughts have so brilliantly immortalized their 
good dinners. I will "begin by oftering a few 

HINTS TO THE NEWLY MARRIED ON THEIR FIRST 
rURNISHINGr. 

We will suppose a "happy pair," just returned from their 
wedding tour, cosily settled down in their second floor in a cheap 
street in London, or their pretty " semi-detached " cottage in a 
genteel row at Camberwell or Wandsworth. Of com-se they 
have furnished, and everything has been made comfortable in 
the " sweet home" under the active superintendence of mother, 
mother-in-lav/, and unmarried sisters. 

HOW FURNITURE SHOULD BE BOUGHT. 
Do not rush in a hurrj'- to cheap shops and buy everything 
you are told you must want. Call a family council, and make 
out a list of the feioest articles you can manage with at first 
(you'll find dozens of little things you never expected you'd 
require extend it day after day) ; then find out from the adver- 
tisements in the newspapers where sales are about to take place ; 
go the day before and carefully examine the articles you wish 
to bid for; let some friend who knows their just value mark 
your catalogue, and if they are knocked down to you within a 
shilling or two of your limit you may be sure you have your 
money's worth. Take care, however, if you should have parti- 
cularl}'- set your mind upon something for which there is a lively 
competition, that you are not " run up" by the Jew brokers who 
swarm at all sales and take a special delight in opposing "money" 
customers, as they interfere with the monopoly they wish to 
establish for their trade. Beware also of cheap advertising 
upholsterers — " veneered delusions," which, thougli very attrac- 
tive to the eye, were never made to do service. You had much 
better, if you cannot suit yourself at public sales, go to a good 
tradesman and give a fair price for well made and properly 
seasoned substantial articles, wdiich, although they may be ex- 
pensive at the beginning, are ahoays the cheapest in the end. 

BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING. 
Modern improvement has given us iron bedsteads in lieu of 



HINTS TO THE N^EWLT MA.RE1ED. 19 

the old four-posters and the other varieties of wooden hug pre- 
serves of our fathers and grandfathers. Feather heds and the 
vermin^reeding straw pailliasses are fast succumbing to the 
French spring, wool and horse-hair mattresses.* Turn and 
beat your mattresses every day with a stick of moderate thick- 
ness, which will prevent an accumulation of dust, and keep their 
surfaces even. They should be carded, and thoroughly cleaned 
at least once in two years. 

CURTAINS. 

All you require is a head curtain to your bed, just large 
enough to shield you from draft from the door or window. It 
is obviously very unwholesome to sleep in an air-tight closet of 
six feet by three, which many do in their four-posters and tents, 
when comfortably tacked up with heavy blankets and quilts 
and voluminous closely- drawn curtains, very often carefully 
pinned together. Depend upon it the more pui-e air yon can 
inhale during sleep the better.t 

In summer, the window should be left open (at the top if 
possible) about a couple of inches. No bedroom should be 
without a green or blue blind or curtain to the window (it need 
not interfere with the pretty white dimity or chintz draperies 
we love to see in the country, as it may take the place of the 
usual sun-blind), for nothing weakens the sight so much as a 
glare of light on the eyes during sleep. ♦ 

BED-EOOM FUENITURE. 

Do not crowd together too many chairs, tables, chests of 
drawers, or boxes ; and be very careful not to make a store- 
room, or, as they call it in Yorkshire, a **' siding oop" hiding- 
place for boxes, bundles, &c. &c., under the bed, where, by the 

* Open .and examine an old mattress or feather bed, and you'll be 
astonished ! The accumulation of dust, l-c. l-c. d:c., after tifty or sixty years' 
constant service (for nine-tenths of both are heirlooms, or brokers' bar- 
gains), is so great, that it seems almost a miracle, inhaling as we necessarily 
must, during the hours of sleep, tlie vapours arising from the putrescent 
matter which has been so long collecting, and is nightly fused by tiie heat 
of our bodies, that we are ever free from illness. The well-known close, 
musty, fusty, stifling odour of a bedroom before the windows are opened 
in the morning may always be traced to the bedstead and bedding. 

{• It lias been proved that a canary hung in its cage during the night 
within the area of a bed so closed has been found dead in the morning, 
the breath of the sleeper having exhausted the oxygen. 
b2 



20 THE ])i:SNER QUESTION. 

way, there should be no carpet — the bare boards, which should 
be often well scrubbed, will be found much more healthful. A 
bed-room should never be carpeted all over : slips round the 
bed are quite sufficient. 

WASHING UTENSILS. 

No bed-chamber should be considered furnished without a 
large tin saucer-like bath (a very large and good one can be had 
at any ironmongers for ten or twelve shillings), and its comfort 
w^hen one stands in it and squeezes a sponge (filled from the 
washhand basin) over one's shoulders just after getting out of 
bed must be tried to be appreciated. No splash to wipe up 
on the floor — no trouble to keep in "order. A towel-horse, and 
rough — but not too rough — towels (the make-believe Baden- 
Baden ones are nutmeg-graters), good yellow soap (Brown 
Windsor, Honey, and the whole tribe of scented emollients, 
are more or less irritating and injurious to the cuticle) plenty of 

COLD WATEK. 

Mind, PLENTY, in a basin large enough to allow the face to 
be plunged into it after the soaping. What the old country 
housewives call "cat-licking" in a teacupfull of warm water, 
and a damask towel, is not only a dirty practice, but greatly 
tends to the production of a sallow complexion and premature 
wrinkles. 

CAKE OF THE TEETH. 

Do not let your brushes be too hard, as they are likely to 
irritate the gums and injure the enamel. Avoid also too fre- 
quent use of tooth-powder, and be very cautious what kind you 
buy, as many are prepared with destructive acids. Those who 
brush their teeth carefully and thoroughly with tepid water and 
a soft brush (cold water should never be used, for it chills and 
injures the nerves) have no oc<;asion to use powder. Should 
any little incrustation (tartar) appear on the sides or at the 
back of the teeth, which illness and very often the constant 
eating of sweetmeats, fruit, and made dishes, containing acids, 
will cause, put a little magnesia on your brush, and after two 
or three applications it will remove it. 

While treatmg on the care of the teeth, which is a subject of 
the highest importance to those who have young families, and 



HOW TO FUHXISH. 21 

in fact every one who wishes to preserve them, I beg to remind 
my readers that as the period generally occupied by sleep is 
calculated to be about (at the least) six hours out of the twenty- 
four,* it would greatly promote the healthful maintenance of 
the priceless pearls Avhose loss or decay so greatly influences 
our appearance and our comfort, if we were to esiahlish a Jiahit 
of carefully cleaning them with a soft brush before going to 
bed. The small particles of food clogging the gums impede 
circulation, generate tartar and caries, and atfect the breath. 
Think of an amalgamation of cheese, flesh, sweetmeats, 
fruit, &c. .ifec, in a state of decomposition, remaining wedged 
between our teeth for six or seven hours ; yet how few ever 
take the trouble to attend to this most certain cause of tooth- 
ache, discoloration, and decay, entailing the miseries of 
scaling, plugging, extraction, and the crowning horror — false 

TEETH ! 

FLRXISHING OF SITTIXG-ROOMS. 

The sitting-room, like the bed-room, should not be over 
furnished, the fewer knick-knacks and inferior engravings the 

^ Tlicre are many opinions about how much, or ratlier how little sleep 
is best for us. Tlie advocates of earl)"^ rising say " six hours are enougli 
for any one if commenced before midnight ;" on the other side, there are 
many hands uplifted for eight, and even ten hours, and there is an old 
country proverb which says — 

" Nature for sleep five hours requires, 

Custom takes seven, 

Idleness nine desires, 

And wickedness eleven." 
The advocates for long rest argue tliat the time taken from seven or 
eight hours' sleep out of eacli twenty-four, is time not (/ained, but tij)ie 
more tJian lost. We cannot cheat ourselves, we cannot cheat nature ; a 
certain amount of food is necessary to a healthful body, and if less than 
that amount be furnished, decay commences at once. It is the same with 
sleep ; and any one who persists in allowing himself less than nature 
requires, will only luisteu his arrival at the madliouse or the grave. The 
great Duke of Wellington's rule was to go to bed as early as possible, 
dismiss all thoughts, and rise at his lirst waking, no matter the hour ; on 
the principle that nature was satisfied, and her functions were prepared 
for the labours of tlie day. This cannot in all cases be acted upon, for our 
domestic arrangements would be disturbed by the master or the mistress 
making tlieir appearance in the breakfast room before the servants had 
aiTanged it ; but it is worth bearing in mind, and will be found more 
beneficial than second sleep, whicii often engenders headache, and 
gradually leads to sluggishness. Old people (though by a strange contra- 
diction they are given to rise early) rc<iuire mucli more sleep than the 
young. 



21 THE DIN>'ER QUESTIOIS'. 

better ; "but I would recommend the cultivation of a few 
geraniums, montlily roses, myrtles, hyacinths, &c. These greatly 
tend to enliven the room, v/liile the}' form pretty screens for 
the windows. I now come to 

THE KITCHEN AKD ITS FURNITURE. 

This is the stronghold of the housewife, and a compreJicnsivc 
attention to its means and appliances should he her first care ; 
for when the kitchen shows symptoms of short-comings, the 
whole economy of the house is deranged. The efforts of the 
best of workmen are valueless without good tools ; therefore, 
as a soldier looks to his arms, look to your kitchen furni- 
ture. 

In large establishments, where " money is no object," the 
modern means and appliances of steam ranges, hot plates, and 
charcoal stoves, of course afford greater facilities for producing 
large dinners than the simple old-fashioned range, with its 
oven and boiler ; but, as we are to suppose our young couple 
cannot afibrd to feast their friends, we will confine ourselves to 
the homely kitchen.- 

IvITCIlEN FIREPLACES. 

One of the greatest comforts of the cook is to have the 
fireplace situated in a good light ; but it is strange how little 
this very essential point is thought of by architects when they 
plan their chimneys, the kitchen fireplace being very often stuck 
into a dark corner, thereby obliging the cook to pursue her 
vocation by candle or gas-light. It is always easy, if the sun 
should now and then be too strong for the fire, to shut it out 
with a screen. We understand, then, that there is a good 
range, with an oven and boiler. 

now AND WHEN COALS SHOULD BE BOUGHT, WITH A 
GLANCE AT COKE AND AVOOD. 

Buy as large a quantity from an old-established merchant as 
your purse can afford, in the months of June and July, when 
they are cheaper than during the winter season. Remember, if 
you buy them by the hundred from a small dealer, you will 
pay at least five-and-twenty per cent. more. A small quantity 
of coke is useful to assist in making a clear fire in the kitchen ; 
but never use it in sitting or bed-rooms, for its vapour is un- 



KITCHEN UTEIfSILS. 23 

wholesome. Chunks of Avood may often be purchased cheap, 
and they will give a cheerfulness to your fire on long winter 
evenings, and remind you at Christmas of the Yule-logs of our 
ancestors. Eememher, however, that the constant use of wood 
is very injurious to the eyes, as it produces inflammation of the 
lids, and gradually weakens the sight. In many parts of the 
continent, where vvood alone is burnt, red eyes are the rule, and 
not the exception. Kow for your 

FRYING-PAKS. 
A frying-pan stands first on the list of essentials for house- 
keeping. T)ie young lady whose marriage portion consisted 
but of one, and a cradle, had by no means a bad idea of the 
articles most likely to be wanted in her new condition. The 
frying-pan is perhaps the most useful, though often the worst 
used, implement in the kitchen. Let it be large and well 
tinned; if it be small, it will not serve for general purposes, and 
in all cases requires greater care lest the articles cooked in it 
burn,* &c. &c. Before frying fish, dry your pan carefully, then- 
put a table spoonful of salt in it, set it on the fire, and with a 
clean cloth rub it round for two or three minutes ; then throw 
out the salt, and put in your fat, oil> or dripping, which must 
be of a sufficient quantity to sioim the fish. 

THE GRIDIROX. 
A common iron one is the next essential, and will serve for 
everything you have occasion to broil ; the patent ones, with 
enamelled channels in the bars and a reservoir for the fat, are 
mistakes, as they keep the meat too far from the fire, and 
when the enamel burns off — which it is certain to do in a very 
short time— burning and scoring the chop or steak naturally 
follow. Soyer recommends an assistant made of double iron 
Avire, to hang on the bars before the fire ; this is certainly 
occasionally usefiil, but experience has proved that it is very apt 
to harden the meat, as in the progress of cooking all the juices, 
instead of being spread over a flat surface, are, from the upright 
position, drained from it. 

* If you can iiiTord it, have three pans. Keep the largest for fish only, 
for clean it as carefully and thoroughly as you can, it will flavour whatever 
you fry immediately after it has been used for ioles, &c. ; a middle size for 
meat, potatoes, &c. ; and a email one for pancakes and Hitters. 



24! TiiE DiNNEH QUESild^". 



TEA-KETTLES. 

A large iron one for the kitclien, and another of l)lock-tin for 
the parlour (don't aspire to copper yet), and remember the good 
old grandmother's fat^hion of putting a marble in both to pre- 
vent the bottom and sides from furring. 

SAUCErAKS. 

You will require a dozen of different sizes, of iron and block- 
tin — avoid common tin and copper, and never buy them 
second-liand — a tin fish-kettle, and a large iron black pot, which 
you can keep continually on the hob, .to boil anything and 
ever}' thing, from soup or a pudding, to a ham, a leg of mutton, 
or a piece of salt beef. This black pot is the brightest gem in 
the poor man's kitchen all over the continent of Europe. 

TEA AND COFFEE POTS. 

A metal pot (a very handsome Sheffield plated one, v\dth silver 
edges, can be had at a moderate cost), from its retention of the 
heat, makes the best tea ; as a cheap and nearly as good substi- 
tute for this, Britannia metal may be used, but earthenware has 
the double advantage of being still cheaper and of being more 
easily kept clean. The coffee-pot should be large and m.ade of 
block-tin. The proper use of this will be explained further on. 
Biggins, Percolators, &c. &c., are fantastic delusions. 

KNIVES AND FOKKS AND SPOONS. 

Have a good number of large and small knives (good Shef- 
field plated forks and spoons will do very well until you can 
afford to get silver), a large carving knife and steel fork with 
a guard for the parlour. By the way, never cut bread and 
butter, or attempt to carve anything, with a small knife, for 
it is not only dangerous, but from having little purchase in 
the hand, makes the operation tedious. Look into the windows 
of the cooks' shops, and notice the magnitude of their carvers.* 
A sharp-pointed knife or tv/o for trimming meat, &.C., in the 
kitchen, an iron ladle, with a long handle, to baste the roast, a 
bottle-jack, which can be hung on a bracket from the mantel- 

* It is said that the celebrated artiste who was wout to cut ham at 
Vauxhall as thin as gold leaf, used a knife of such Brobdignag proportions 
that Cjrinialdi used to borrow it for the pantomimes. 



ADVICE TO COOKS. 25 

piece or fixed in a tin screen (wliicli should have a moveable 
dripping-pan), a sieve, a tin cullender, a funnel, a paste-board, 
a chopping-board, a dredging-box, a rolling-pin, a bread and 
nutmeg- grater, a dozen iron skewers, a Dutch or American 
oven, a M'ire toaster to hang on the bars before the lire, to toast 
bread, bacon, &c., a toasting-fork, an iron footman, a cinder- 
sifter, dish-covers, a wire cover to keep the flies from the 
meat, &c., and then you have almost ever^^thiug you require to 
begin your culinary campaign. Now, recollect that " the cak- 

DINAL VIRTUES OF COOKERY ARE CLEAJS'LI^^ESS, FRUGALITY, 

iffouRiSHMEis'T, AiS^D PALATABLENESS ;" let them preside over 
all your labours ; then, if you keep everytuinct in its 
PROPER place and use everything for its proper pur- 
pose, you will be half way on your road to become an accom- 
plished cook. 

GOLDEN EULES FOR THE KITCHEN. 

Never use any kind of utensil without being certain that it 
is (luite clean. After you have used your frying-pans, sauce- 
pans, &c. &c., take the earliest opportunity of thoroughly 
washing them, and rubbing them dry with a clean cloth, pre- 
vious to putting them aAvay in their lyrojper places (which 
must be dry and handy to the firepla(;e). 

Take care that your saucepan lids fit closely, and that they 
too are perfectly clean. If you are not attentive to this, the 
strength of your soups and stews will be lost by evapora- 
tion. 

Be careful always to use earthenware vessels for putting aside 
gravies, soups, &c. Many persons have been poisoned by the 
carelessness of ignorant servants in using metal pots and pans 
which contained verdigris, caused by the action of the vegetable 
acids in the soups upon the metal. 

Never cram a large piece of meat or fish into a small pot or 
kettle ; and on the other hand, never drown a small piece in a 
large one. 

Eegulate the force of your fire according to the work it has 
to perform. Coal is expensive, and a great deal is wasted bj' 
inexperienced or careless cooks, who imagine that nothing can 
be done without a "roaring fire." 

• Make yourself quite secure from windfalls of soot and from 
the risk of setting the chimney on fire, by having the sweeps 



26 THE DINNER QUESTIOK. 

every three montlis, and clearing the mouth of the chmiiiey 
every morning with a long-handled birchbroom. 

Do nothing by the " rule of thumb ;" measure and weigh 
the articles you are directed to use in the receipts, so that you 
get the proper proportions, which is often of the utmost conse- 
quence to the flavour and palatableness of the dish. 

!N"ever be without, a clock or watch in the kitchen to be cer- 
tain of the time your joints, &c. &c., should roast, boil, bake, or 
stew. No good cook ever guesses her time, or trusts to her 
hand for weights, quantities,* &c. &c. 

Let the cloth be laid and the table prepared at least half an 
hour before your dinner is ready, for, should this very important 
rule be neglected, all your labours in the kitchen will be in vain, 
as everything is more or less spoiled by being delayed in its 
serving up. Husbands should remember this, and always be 
home punctually to their time, or — the gentlest of wives cannot 
be silent on such a subject. 

The furnishing of the kitchen being complete, I Avill now 
show the best methods of putting each article to its proper use ; 
but as a first principle remember it is impossible to cook 

■WELL WITHOUT CONCENTEATI^^G YOUE THOUGHTS ON YOUE 
WOEK, AND GIVING IT CONSTANT AND PATIENT ATTENTION. 

Without this you will often have to lament over failures in the 
shape of over or under-done meat, burnt stews and gravies, 
spoiled vegetables and fish, heavy bread, and indigestible pies 
and puddings. 

Never say " NEVER mind," or "that will do." Depend 
upon it, those who use these expressions are careless, ignorant 
persons, who always mean exactly the reverse. When a cook, 
through stupidity or idleness, has set fire to the chimney, or 
suffered her stews or joints to burn, she may grin, and say, 
" Never mind, it's a misfortune," and try to persuade herself 
that it couldnt be helped; 'but all the while she says to herself, 
" Oh, I wish it hadn't happened ! how could I be so care- 
less ?" &c. &c. 



* Doctor Kitchenev says, " It is impossible to cook from the obscure 
directions of the old cookery-books. Who, for instance, can tell exactly 
what is meant by * a bit of this, a handful of that, a pinch of t'other, a 
sprinkle of salt, a dust of flour, a shake of pepiier, a squeese of lemon, or a 
da?li of vinegar ?' '' 



GENERAL IXSTlirCTIOlN'S. 27 

I)o not, to save yourself a little trouble, "make shift" with 
the first thing that comes to hand. A moment's reflection will 
tell you that A TKi2\GTrHicii" -WILL do" can]s^ot be expected 

TO BE AS SEEVICEABLE AS THE PEOPEELY :MADE AND SPECIALLY 
ADAPTED THIIsG IT EEPEESEXTS. 

BOILING. 

Although this may appear to be the most primitive mode of 
cooking, it is nevertheless a fact, that as it requires the aid of 
fire-proof vessels of earth or metal, its use dates long after 
roasting, baking, or broiling. Trying is comparatively a modern 
invention. 

GENERAL INSTirLdlONS FOR BOILING. 

Begin v/ith a good fire and clean ntensils, as before observed, 
and regulate the force of yonr fire by the size and weight of the 
joint you may have to cook. It is obvious that a small piece 
of fish does not require the same amount of fuel as a leg of 
mutton ; but manj^ make no difference. ' 

Never let your saucepans boil at a gallop, but keep them at 
a steady simmer. 

When j-our fire is well burnt up and ready for its work, and 
not till then, begin your operations. Select a saucepan or pot 
suited to the dimensions of the article to be cooked, which must 
be well covered, though not drowned, with cold water ;* place it 
on the fire, and watch it until it boils ; then skim it carefully, 
or the scum will break and stick to the meat. After sl^imming, 
put in half a teacupfull of cold water, which will throw the re- 
mainder of the scum to the top, which you must also carefully 
remove ; then look to your clock or watch, and time youe 

MEAT, &C. EEOM THE MOMENT OF BOILING. HoW long each 

joint, &c., will require depends in a great measure on the season 
of the year and the description of the article to be cooked. 

Joints of meat in summer require twenty minutes boiling to 
each pound ; in winter, if they are frozen, the}^ must be thawed 
with warm water before being put into the pot ; they will take 

* Liebig lecoinmencls that the article to be cooked should be put into 
the pot when the water is hoiling, as it keeps in the juices by rapidly 
coiigulating tliem on the surface ; but experience has proved that this 
process renders the meat tough. 



2S THE DlNNEli QUESTIOX. 

Hvc-and-twenty minutes. Salted meat at all times l'equii*es 
tAventy-tive minutes to each pound. 

Observe that a thick solid joint, like a leg of mutton or pork, 
requires more time than a thinner piece of meat of the same 
Aveight, from the larger surface of the latter being sooner acted 
upon by the heat. 

A large whole fish, such as a salmon or tuibot, of ten or 
twelve pounds, put into cold water, requires twenty-five minutes 
to half an hour from the moment it boils. 

Pieces of salmon and turbot, weighing about two or three 
])ounds, should be put mto hoiling water with a little salt, and 
be allowed half an hour. 

Mackerel, trout, haddock, soles, and plaice, put into boiling 
water, require only ten minutes. 

Half a cod, weighing four or hve pounds, put into boiling 
water, will take from twenty to five-and-twenty minutes. 

^liddling-sized lobsters and crabs, put into boiling water, wall 
take from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour ; large ones from 
twenty to five-and-twenty minutes. 

Crimped skate, thrown into boiling water, only requires to 
boil up to be done. Note. — All crimped fish, from presenting 
so many surfaces to the action of the heat, requires but half the 
time that is otherwise allovred. 

Shrimps and prawns thrown into boiling water (without any 
salt) have but to boil up to be done. To give them the brown 
colour, stir them in the pot with a red-hot iron (the kitchen 
poker is generally used), strain them, and throw a handful of 
salt over them. 

Large fowls or Turkeys must be put into cold water with 
their breasts downwards, and be gradually (in about an hour) 
brought to the boil, after which they will require from twenty 
to five and-twenty minutes gentle simmering to be finished. 

Small fowls take about half an hour to get to the boil, and 
a quarter of an hour to simmer. 

STEWING. 
As the action of the fire in this process requires to be spread 
over a broad surface, the pans should be shallow, with closely 
fitting covers; for if there be the slightest vent, the juices of 
the meat will escape in steam. 



GENEEAL IXSTEUCTIONS. 29 

PREPARATORY BROWNING.* 

Let the article you wish to stew be first slightly browned in 
the pan with a small quantity of butter (just enough to keep it 
from burning), then cover it with stoch gravy (which I will by 
and by tell you how to make), the exact quantity of which 
must depend on the weight of the meat, <tc. ; but as a general 
rule, you cannot err in allowing a small teacupful to a pound. 
As in the case of boiling, the size of the pan should correspond 
with that of the article to be cooked. After you have browned 
your meat, pursue the same course with your vegetables, which 
of course must be cut into small pieces. 

If you have no stock, after the preparatory browning, take out 
the meat, &c., put half a teacupful of hot water into the pan, 
set it on the fire, and let it simmer for a minute or two, shake 
the pan round (to mix the water with the gravy made by the 
browning), then put in the meat, kc, again, and proceed with 
your stewing. 

The time required for a rump-steak or veal cutlet, weighing 
about two pounds, is about two hours. Thick pieces of meat 
will take from four to five hours. Bullocks' kidneys (which 
should be sliced) require no less than twelve hours. 

JSTo skimming is necessary in stewing ; but, when finished, 
the fat which will rise to the top of the gravy must be carefully 
removed witli a thm spoon, 

ROASTING. 

So important is this branch of coolcery, that Brillat Savarin 
says, '•' You may be made a coolc, but you must be loni a 



* This " good thought " is attributed to CarGme (the ancestor of the 
Careme of our time), duf to Loo X., and like lithograpliy and 
many other "great inventions," owes its existence to accident. He had 
entrusted the preparation of a stew to one of his numerous pupils, who 
from stupidity or carelessness, put the meat iu the pan zcitJiout the 
gravy, and set it on the fire ; the fat supplying the place of butter, it was 
half fried before he discovered his error. Horror-struck, and fearing the 
anger of the great chef, he hastily threw in the gravy, and hoped the fault 
would not be discovered ; but Careme on supervising the plat, observ- 
ing its extraordinary colour, tasted it in alarm lest any poisonou.s 
ingredient should have accidentally slipped into the pan, and liking the 
flavour, he questioned the trembling cook, and after repeating the experi- 
ment, adopted the process, it is needless to say with wjiat palate-i'clt satis- 
lection to the whole of tlie civiliz-cd world. 



30 THE DINJTEE QUESTION. 

roaster" As in boiling, you must nave your fire quite ready 
and regulated in its force by the size and weight of your joint, 
hefore i/oiL -put it doion. 

Hang your bottle-jack (if it be not fixed in a tin screen) 
securely on its nail or bracket in the centre of your mantel- 
piece, place your dripping-pan exa,ctly under the spot where the 
fat falls; if yon put it cloi^e to the fire it will catch the dust 
and cinders. 

now TO MAKE UP A FIEE. 

Let the centre be solid with large lumps of coal, well ignited 
(which they will be if put on half an hour before you begin your 
work); small pieces, mixed with a little coke, will do for the 
sides, and wetted cinders should be thrown on the top. 

When you have fastened the hook in your joint, and tried 
the length of the string required to bring it into its proper 
position, stir your fire carefully, brush away the dust and 
liaming coals from the bars, and put down your j oint, and you 
will have nothing to do but watch that it does not stand still 
and burn. Basting it frequently v\dth a long-handled spoon is 
also essential, as it prevents the surface from growing too dry. 

The geeat secret of good eoastijj^g is basting. 
]\Iany persons flour the meat before putting it down ; but this 
is an error, as by hindering the escape of the fat, the skin 
is very apt to be burnt, and the crispness of the meat destroyed. 

TIME REQUIRED FOR EOASTIXG. 

This, as in boiling, entirely depends on the size and weight 
of the joint or fowl, and the season of the year; but a quarter 
of an hour to each pound will not be too little for those who 
like their meat with the gravy in it. 

A moderate sized fowd will take about an hour. 

Eemember that in roasting, as in every other branch of 
cookery, ncthixg is done well which is doxe ix a 
IIUEEY. Particularly attend to this maxim ; for by putting 
the moat too close to the fire at first the outside will not only 
be scorched, but by the too sudden setting of the juice (osma- 
zome), it becomes hard and un pleasantly- flavom-ed; therefore, 
do xot put yous meat too close to the FIEE, advance 
it gradually, so that every part may be slowly influenced by the 
heat. 



GEAVT rOR HOASTS. 31 

It is better to scrape than wasli j'our joints, Slc, before 
putting them down, for water soddens tbe fibre and destroys 
the flavour of the meat. 

After being well scraped and wiped with a clean dry cloth, 
the joint should be rubbed with a little salt, which assists the 
fire in drawing forth and distributing the juices. 

Be caeeful in stieeing youe fiee. If your fire should 
grow hollow, it will be necessary to stir it ; but before doing 
so, take care to put back both the joint and the dripping-pan, 
to avoid the cinders and dust. The fire should be stirred when 
the meat is nearly done (which 3'ou will know by the steam 
rising from it), for the purpose of giving it a concluding brown- 
ing, which cannot be effected unless the fire is bright and clear. 
J^ow is the moment, after well basting, to lightly di-edge with 
a little flour ; this (if you do not overdo it and make a paste) 
will slightly froth the joint and render it agreeable to the eye, 
which requires to be pleased almost as much as the palate. 

GRAVY FOE EOAST MEAT. 

When your joint is " done to a turn," dish it, and place it 
before the fire ; then carefully remove the fat from the dripping- 
pan, and pour the gravy into the dish, not over the meat, as is 
the custom of inexperienced cooks, who moreover, not content 
w^ith this, ruthlessly drown it with a cupiid of boiling w^ater or 
highly-flavoured made gravy ; this is a vulgar error, for there 
is always a sufficient qiLantity of natural gravy in good meat 
to render the use of foreign sauces sujperjiuous.^ 

If, however, the joint be small, and a large quantity of gravy 
be required, I recommend that before the meat is taken from 
the fire, the fat should be removed from the dripping-pan, a 
little simple stock gravy, made of a small piece of shin of beef 
(the shank if it be a leg of mutton), also a shalot and a little 
pepper and salt, stewed in a small saucepan, should be added to 
the natural gravy, and the joint well hasted with it just before 
dredging. This, from long experience, I have found to be a 
far better plan than the old-fashioned one of soddening the 
meat with hot water, and destroying its flavour with catsup or 
acid sauces. 

* Poultry, game, and veal, having but little juice, must be basted with 
fresh butter ; or with clarified suet (for fowls, turkeys, &c.), to which may 
be added minced sweet herbs (for veal), and a little port wine (for Jiare 
and wild fowl) ; sucking pigs are often basted with cream. 



32 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

Be careful, if you use a spit, to have it very clean, and run 
it through the centre of the joint, so that the action of the fire 
may he equal on all parts. ]\tany use cradles for poultry and 
small joints, but as they make a mark wherever they touch, 
they are not generally liked. By the hottle-jack, with its tin 
screen and moveable dripping-pan, is the best method of roasting, 
as the meat can be attached to the hook by string and skewers, 
and the unsightly black mark caused by the insertion of a spit 
avoided. 

There is another great disadvantage in roasting joints of 
meat with a spit ; the w^ound it makes, by being passed 
through the centre, causes the juice to escape into the dripping- 
pan instead of being diffused through the meat. Spits are 
however very useful for game, poultr}-, sucking pigs, &c,, as 
they can be passed through the bodies without touching the 
flesh. 

BAKING. 

Presuming that you use the oven of your range, take care 
about an hour before you put in your joint, &c., to make up 
a good fire in your grate, and clear the communicating passage 
to the oven. The force of the fire requisite to bring the oven 
to its proper temperature must, as in roasting and boiluig, 
entirely depend on the articles you have to cook. The heat 
necessary for a large piece of meat w^ould be too fierce for a 
fruit-pie, &c. &c. 

You MUST BE INTIMATELY ACQUAINTED WITH YOUE OVEN 

BEFOEE YOU CAN BAKE WELL WITH IT. For, SO much de- 
pends on its construction, the position in which it is placed 
in regard to currents of air from windows, door, and chimney, 
and, which is very important, though seldom thought of, the 
age and state of re'pair of the range. 

If it be an old servant, from work the plates of the oven 
have become thin, the heat is much sooner diffused than when 
it is new ; besides, it often happens in the former case that the 
communicating passage and the door have, from constant use, 
ceased to be air-tight. 

Let then one of your first steps in kitchen business be to 
test the capabilities of your oven, for it is only by being quite 
conversant with all its fiiults and virtues that you can properly 
URe it. 



EAKIXG A-SD EiiOILI^'G. 33 

Put your meat in a deep earthenware or tin dish, on a 
three-legged wire stand, with potatoes or a Yorkshire pudding 
under it, and place it in the centre of the oven, so that the 
heat may be equal on all sides, excepting that next to the 
fire. 

To prevent the Jire side from being done too quickl}-, you 
must occasionally turn your dish (all good ovens have a wheel 
trivet for this purpose), taking care to give all sides their 
share of the " post of honour," of facing the hottest fire. 

A piece of meat weighing about six pounds will take nearly 
tv.'o hours, and a good sized meat pie about an hour. 

Fruit pies, rice, and milk puddings should ahvays be put 
into a brisk oven, and be turned every ten minutes, for the light 
crust is ver}' apt to burn on the fire side. Allow them an 
hour. 

BROILIXG. 

Let your fire be clear and brisk, and your gridiron scrupu- 
lously clean in every part. Set it on the fire for a minute or 
two, to get warm, wipe it carefully with a clean dry cloth, then 
rub the bars with a piece of mutton or beef suet (to prevent 
the meat from sticking to them), set it on the fire again, and 
place the article you have to cook upon it, taking care, if it 
be a chop or steak, to let the fat end be in front ; the gridiron 
should also have a slight inclination to the front of the grate, 
to prevent the fat from falling into the Ih'e and making a 
smoke. You cannot turn the meat too often, for v.'hich purpose 
use a pair of tongs ; to stick a fork into the flesh would cause 
the gravy to escape and destroy the succulence and flavour. 
Do not, for the same reason, sprinkle your chops and steaks 
with salt while they are on the fire. 

The time required depends both upon the fire and the article 
to bo cooked. A chop or a steak with the gravy in it will be 
done in about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour ; but to eat 
these old English delicacies cooked to perfection you must go 
to the City chop-houses : tliere it is the custom to choose the 
meat that strikes your fancy, and see it broiled while you skim 
the newspaper and munch a hunk of bread. 

Epicures from all parts of the town may be seen, even in the 
dog days, braving the furnace, which is but a few yards from 
them. So alluring are the pleasures of the table that (as in the 

c 



34 THE DIKNER QTrESTIO^^. 

case of Louis XYI. of France, who was captured at Varenues 
through stopping at Salute Menehould to taste its celebrated 
pigs' trotters) fortune, life, ar.d liberty, have often been risked 
for the gratification of the stomach. Indeed it is astonishing, 
when we call to mind the uncomfortable, out-of-the-way, and 
often dirty places, to which the refined and wealthy resort in the 
pursuit of a dinner or a supper, or even a dish peculiarly well 
cooked and served. Quin the actor travelled r.ll the way to 
Plymouth to eat a " John Dory." George lY. is said to have 
dined at Williams' boiled beef house in the Old Bailey. The 
great Napoleon visited j\larseilles to test the merits of the 
famous Bouillabaisse. All the gourmands of Paris some few 
years ago deserted Les Trois Freres Provencaux and Very to 
flock to a small restaurateur's at Batignoles to feast on the 
Maj/Grciiaise d'Momard of le Pere Lathuile. 

In the Tom and Jerry days, the chops and steaks, baked 
potatoes, and Welsh rarebits of the Coal" Hole, the Cider Cellar, 
and Offley's, the tripe and ouions of the Cadgers' hostelrie in 
St. Giles's, and the leg of mutton and trimmings at the sailor's 
rendezvous in Wapping, were patronized by the fashionable 
notorieties with the same gusto as at the present time, when 
their sons forsake the delicate cuisine of their clubs for " fish 
dinners " at Billingsgate, the turbot and saddle of mutton at 
Simpson's, the grilled chickens and devilled kidneys at Evans's, 
the Irish stew and pale ale of the Haymarket night-houses, and 
the sherry-cobblers and mint juleps of the American spirit 
stores. 

I now come to perhaps the most important practical point of 
the family " Dinner Question." 

FRYING. 

The process is so simple, and its application so hand}^, that 
everybody can effect it, and almost everything can be cooked 
v/ith it ; but v/ith all its primitive advantages, the proper use 
and management of the frying-pan is but little understood in 
this country, and its capabilities are often too indiscriminately 
tested. 

The French are far before us in this matter. Their pans are 
much deeper than ours (being in fact iron fish-kettles), and the 
quantity of oil and fat they use, by at once setting the juices of 
the fish or meat they immerse in it, preserves its nourishing 



PHILOSOPHY OP COOKEEr. 35 

properties, whlcli by our process of cooking one side at a time 
escape into the pan. 

The French method has besides the great advantage of 
sending fish, cutlets, &c., to table with a much better colour. 
I will, however, by offering a few hints on the management of 
the English frying-pan, endeavour to show how a careful and 
intelligent cook can overcome its natural difficulties. 

In the first place, as a matter of course, the pan must be 
thoroughly clean and the tinning perfect ; next, be careful never 
to use any oil, butter, lard, suet, or dripping, but what is quite 
clean, fresh, and free from salt. 

Anything stale or having a bad odour spoils the flavour, and 
salt prevents brov/ning. 

Olive oil is the best medium for delicate French cookery ; 
but for general pm-poses, especially for fish, clean fresh lard or 
clarified butter does almost as well : but when you use butter 
you must be very careful, for it is apt to burn. 

Clarified mutton or beef suet, and good clean dripping, are 
equally available. 

As frying is merely hoiling in fat instead of water, it is 
essential that whatever kind of grease you use should be very 
hot before you put in your fish, cutlets, &c. The usual mode 
of testing the temperature is to throw a small piece of bread 
into the pan : if it be immediately crisped and brov/ned, the fat 
is ready for its work ; but if it burns the bread, or but slightly 
tinges it, you m.ay be certain it is either too hot or not sufii- 
ciently heated, both conditions being fatal to good cookery. 

Now, before I go any farther into the ]L>ractice; I think it 
will not be amiss to say something on the 

PHILOSOPHY OF THE CULIXAKl' AKT. 

In illustration of whicli T cannot do better than quote a very 
remarkable paper in the Encyclo. Brit. Edin., vol. iv. p. 244, 

article " Food." 

To understand the tliecry of coolcery, we must attend to tlie action of 
heat upon the various constituents of alimentary substances as applied 
directly and indirectly through the medium of some fluid. In the process 
of roasting and boiling, the chief constituents of animal substances undergo 
the following changes — 

Fibrine is corrugated, the aZ6M??2e« is coagulated, the r/eZafwe and oswa- 
zome rendered more soluble in water, the fat liquified, and the icater 
evaporated. 

cS 



36 THE DlNNEil QUESTION. 

If the heat exceed a certain degree, the surface becomes first brown, and 
then scorched. In consequence of these changes the muscular fibre be- 
comes opaque, sliortcr, firmer, and drier ; the tendons less opaque, softer, 
and gluey ; the fat is either melted out or rendered semi-transparent ; the 
albumen is coagulated and separated ; and they dissolve gelatine and 
osmazome ; lastly, and what is tlie most important change, and the imme- 
diate object of all cookery, the meat loses the vapid nauseous smell and 
taste peculiar to its raw state, and liecomes savoury and grateful. 

Heat applied through the intervention of boiling oil or melted fat, as in 
frying, i^roduces nearly the same changes ; as the heat is suflicient to 
evaporate the water, and induce a degree of scorching. But when water 
is the medium through whicli heat is applied, as in boiling, stewing, and 
baking, the effects are somewhat different, as the heat never exceeds 212°, 
which is not sufficient to commence the process of browning or decomposi- 
tion, and the soluble constituents are removed by being dissolved in water, 
forming soup or broth; or if tlie direct contact of the water be prevented, 
they are dissolved in the juices of the meat, and separate in the form of 
gravy. 

To resume. The fire must be clear and strong ; for to fry 
well is to do it rapidly ; to simmer anything by a small slow- 
fire is to spoil it. 

Your fish being properly prepared (when I come to my 
Eeceipts I will give you fall instructions for egging, hread- 
cfumhing, larding, &c. &c.), put them carefully into the pan, 
taking care that there is on all occasions fat enough completely 
to cover, or, as it is technically termed, " swim " them ; then 
with a good light and undivided attention watch your pan, for 
so uncertain and delicate is the process of frying, that if you 
take your eye off it for an instant, the "fat may be in the fire," 
or your fish, &c., may burn and be spoiled. 

Having now, I trust, fully and clearly, although briefly, ex- 
plained everything essential for the proper methods of Boiling, 
Stewing, Eoasting, Broiling, Baking, and Frying, I will here 
ofi'er a few observations on the reasons why our English mode 
of cookery has so long remained without improvement, and 
our dinners, alike in our families and our parties, are so 
undeniably inferior to corresponding entertainments on the 
continent. 

In the first place, it has been truly said that one great im- 
pediment to culinary progress among us is to be found in the 
excellence of the raw material. We possess in abundance the 
finest kinds of meat, fish, and vegetables, and the consequence 
is that we do not think it necessary to heighten their flavour 
by any extraneous aid. On the continent, however, where natm-e 
has not proved so bountiful, necessity has been the mother of 



CAL-SES Or EAJ) COOKERY, 37 

inveution, and the result is seen in a variety of ingeniously 
concocted sauces which would render even horseflesh pala- 
table.* 

The next equally- great mistake is tiie self-sufficient pride of 
the mistress of a house, who, forgetting the old saw of '' a 
little learning is a dangerous thing," hermetically closes up her 
eyes and ears, and resolutely continues the old traditional " rules 
of thumb." Servants in the same manner wall pertinaciously 
stick to their early training. " Well, ma'am," a cook is very 
apt to say, when her mistress ventures to suggest an improve- 
ment in her method of producing a dish, " your new-fangled 
style may be very good ; but mine is the way I've been taught, 
and as it has always given the highest satisfaction in all the 
genteel families I have lived with, I'd rather be excused from 
altering it." Thus ignorance and vanity have continued from 
year to year to keep our kitchens " as they were," and as they 
ever will remiain unless ladies of education and taste will, by 
giving their minds, and occasionally a small portion of their 
leisure time, to the practical elucidation of the (jreat question; 
root out old prejudices and reform ever3'thing connected with 
the present hap-hazard system, in which " huge gory joints," 
" unpalatable soups," " fish boiled to jelly or fried black and 
swimming in grease," with gout and dyspepsia engendering 
"made dishes^' and pastry, excite the ridicule of our foreign 
neighbours, many of whom still believe that all classes in 
England, excepting "La grande aristocratie" live upon nothing 
but half raw roast beef and steaks, plum pudding, and brandy 
" grogs." 

But " to return to our muttons." Culinary reform is in the 
hands of the ladies : if they will determine to qiialify themselves 
personally to superintend the operations of their kitchens, not 
only moderate housekeepers, but the possessors of large incomes 
who keep French men or professed English women cooks, will 
find it to their advantage to devote half an hour in the morning 
to regulatino- their bill of fare find consulting with their ope- 
ratives on the general arrangement and production of their 

* It is well known that at tlie cheap Parisian restaurants, great use is 
made of this equine beef, so abhorrent to English stomaclis ; indeed it is 
viore. than suspected that half their hif steks aux x>ommes,Jihts de bceuf, 
soups, and ragouts owe their paternity to the denizens of the stable 
instead of the stall. 



38 THE DIXKEE QUESTIONS'. 

dinners.* To those who are not, as the newspaper advertlse- 
nicnts have it, '* blessed vv-ith affluence," but are obliged to do 
for themselves or manage with one servant, the magical 2>otcer 
of culinary Tcnotcledge will appear in the economical and skilful 
eAiployment of their limited means in procuring their husbands 
and families superior home comforts and even luxuries, when 
ignorance and nnthriftiness v/ould cause them, as is too often 
the case, particularly in the houses of the working class, to 
waste and spoil the good and wholesomxe meat, fish, poultry, or 
vegetables, their Saturday- night cheap marketing has placed at 
the mercy of their dilapidated and dirty kitchen furniture, and 
their blind " rule of thumb" notions of how the various articles 
should be treated to make them palatable and nourishing. 

I have now arrived at the portion of the present work which 
may be considered its main point — the 

EECEIPTS. 

Although the remarks I have made on the properties of the 
saucepan, the stewpan, the gridiron, the fryingpan, &c. &c., are 
necessary for the foundation of my sj'Stem of cookery, without 
full and practical receipts for the dishes to be produced, my 
labours would be in vain. I therefore beg to submit the fol- 
lowing few, hut 2yeysonall2/ iried and proved 

PLAIN EECEIPTS FOR PLAIX DISHES, IX WHICH ECONOMY 
IS BLEXDED WITH PALATABLEXESS. 

I will by and bye say a vrord or two on French Dishes a^d 
Dinner Giving, for those whose means permit them to entertain 
their friends, but at present I will confine myself to the 

* G. II. M., of Berkelej'-strcet, who is gocd authority in this matter, 
says : — " It requires a httle ediicatioii, but not more than any lady can 
give to herself. It requires some practice, but not so much, if thought 
accompanies it, as must grow upon you from the mere necessity of dining 
more or less once a-day during nine months, or a year. It requires, above 
all, imagination, or rather adaptation, but not nearly so much as every 
lady exercises in her daily scientific discussions with her maid, or her 
solitary and frequent reflections on dress. There is no reason why ladie.5 
should not excel in this subject as well as in that of dress. That they do 
not do so may, I think, be attributed to the fact that, first, other ladies do 
not see the results and praise them so much; and secondly, that their dinner 
parties come at intervals, wliereas their dress comes before tliem every day 
of their lives, and they will order anything for dinner or leave the whole 
subject to the cook during the days when the family is alone." 



VEAL CUTLET. 39' 

KITCHENS OF HOUSEKEEPERS WITH SMALL IN-COMES. 

I have already sliown you how to roast a leg of mutton, and 
hroil a chop or steak ; I will now instruct you in the best 
method of frying that great delicacy of country inns before the 
railroads sounded the " death knell " of the good old coaching 
times, a 

VEAL CUTLET. 

Let it be about half an inch in thickness ; trim it carefully 
from hard skin and sinews, and remove also any small pieces 
of bone which may have stuck to the meat in the sawing, cut 
it into neat pieces of about three or four inches in diameter, 
then dip each piece in a soup-plate, in which the yolk and 
white of an egg are beaten up, then draw them through another 
soup-plate in which are some fine bread crumbs, taking care 
that every part be thoroughly covered with them ; then, after 
seeing that your fire is brisk and clear (you can do nothing if 
it be slow or flaring), and your pan in tcorJdng order (you already 
know what I mean by that), put it on the fire with some thin 
slices of bacon (about the same number as those of veal^, which 
you must fry briskl}^, and v/hen done take out and place in your 
oven to be kept hot until the cutlet is cooked. 

iN^.B. — If the bacon be tolerably fat, you will not require any 
more grease to fry the cutlet ; but if it be lean, you must use 
a little good butter, for in either case the bottom of the pan 
must be well covered or the meat v;ill be too brown, and perhaps 
burn. 

Then with your slice put in the pieces of veal, and when they 
have been over the fire from three to four minutes, lift one of 
them carefull}^ and if it be light hroion it is time to turn, 
which you must do, still with your slice, for to stick a fork into 
the meat (as in the case of the rump-steak) is to waste the 
juice. When the second side is light brown, dish up, and 
having previously mixed a small teaspoonful of flour with 
a sniall teacupful of stock (clear beef and veal broth kept 
in a jar for making good gravy for anything that may 
require it), or in its absence the like quantity of cold water, 
flavoured with a little mushroom or walnut catsup, pour it into 
the pan (of course you have removed the fat), shake it well over 
the fire until it boils, then pour it into the dish [not over the 
meat, for the reason I gave in my directions for dishing the leg 



40 THE DIJfKEE QUESTION. 

of mutton), in wliicli you have placed the pieces of veal in the 
centre, with the bacon round them. A " squeeze of a lemon" 
in the gravy gives it a pleasant flavour, and a little crisped 
parsley and a lew thin slices of lemon, surmounting the bacon 
on the edge of the dish, and your nutlet is cooJced as near as 
possible to ferfection. But recollect that by some strange 
fatality a veal cutlet, or in fact anything you are frying, always 
burns if you turn your eyes from it for a single instant. 

When you have mastered the veal cutlet, which I have placed 
first on the list of Fritures (fryings), for ladies to try on it 
their " 'prentice hands" before attempting a more delicate and 
difficult task ; for time-honoured as it is among us as one of our 
best English dishes, and every one Avho has a fryingpan can 
cook it, how very seldom, except in hotels, where it is still a staple 
and popular entree, is it turned out in a creditable manner. It 
is either too thick and " knobbly," and fried in one piece, or 
partially burnt or sodden, with highly-flavoured gravy, thick- 
ened with flour into paste, or what is worse, swimming in a 
sea of melted butter. But with all its short-comings, its pro- 
duction is generally more satisfactory than that of the great 
touclistone of the capabilities of a good 2ylcnn cook, as it is the 
highest triumph her fryingpan can achieve, a 

FRIED SOLE. 

This is the fatal dish that has driven hundreds of " well-to- 
do" husbands to dine at their clubs, and is looked upon by the 
working-man as analogous in its want of toothsomeness with the 
cold shoulder and sickly hash of w^ashing daj^s. Let me endea- 
vour to show the wives of both conditions of housekeepers, wdio 
liave hitherto by their want of knowledge in the preparation, 
and skill in the Jl?aJ^-ipulation, of this too-often spoiled homely 
dish, scared their liege lords from the domestic board, how, as 
Juliet says of her truant Eomeo, to 

" Lure tlie tassel-gentles back again." 

Choose your fish (if possible) yourself; you will easily know if 
it be fresh (v.hich it must be, or the best of cookery will be 
thrown away) by the edges of the mouth being " pinky" "(they 
are white vrhen stale), and the fihre, in kitchen pai'igJice the 
Jlesh, being elastic. Take care, by the way, that you have the 



FEIED SOLE. 41' 

identical fish you choose, for fishmongers have been known 
occasionally to practise sleight of hand in the skinning ; beware 
also, if you buy a " pair," of having one fresh and the other 
stale — a trick too often played on the unwary. 

PREPAIiATIOX. 

After skinning, cutting off the tails and fins, and ''gutting,'' 
which somewhat unpleasant operations are generally performed 
by the fishmonger, but I would advise you to effect them your- 
self about an hour before you- begin your cooking, which will 
have the double advantage of keeping the "flesh" crisp and 
preventing the aforesaid sleight of hand, wash, and wips your 
fish quite dry, with a dry clean cloth; then fold them in 
another cloth, equally clean and dry, dividing each with a fold, 
and place them aside until the time ai-rives for putting them in 
the pan. 

iSTow cut out the crumb of a stale loaf (a penny one will 
be sufiicient for " a pair" of moderate size*), put it in the centre 
of a fine clean towel, gather the corners in one hand (as you 
would when tying up a pudding), then with the other hand 
break up the bread and rub the pieces together (in the bag 
formed by the towel) until they are nearly reduced to powder. 
This you will find to be a cleaner and more expeditious method 
than grating, for the grater is seldom in working order, and 
does not do its work so evenly. 

Put the crumbs into a shallow dish, and proceed to the 
nest manceuvre, which is to beat up an Qg^ (in the same way 
I have described for the veal cutlet), and the accessories are 
ready. 

Your fire and pan being in working order (see cutlet direc- 
tions), unroll the cloth from your fish, give them a slight 
sprinkle of flour from the dredging box, to absorb any remain- 
ing moisture and form a foundation for the ^^^ and bread 
crumbing, as painters size their canvas before they commence 
their colouring, then draw them (you may, if you prefer it, use 

* Doctor Kitchenei- says, "When you Avant a great many bread crumbs, 
divide youf loaf (which should be two days old) into three equal parts: 
take the Djtiddie or crumb piece, the top and bottom will do for table. In 
the uiualiia-u of cutting the cruat is ivastcd." 



42 THE DITsKER QUESTIO]S". 

.1 paste brash) first tlirougli the heaten-up egg/* and then through 
the crumbs, taking care that every part be thoroughly covered 
with both. Then half Jill your jyan with the beyt Lucca oil, 
lard, or SKeet beef dripping, and pray attend to the next most 
important piece of information. 

The great secret of frying soles well is to rsE 
PLENTY OF FAT, fov if y Oil clo not have a full half inch of 
it above them when they are in the ])an, they will either hum, 
he fried too hroton, or he too greasy. -^ 

Now take them by the heads and tails, and drop them carefully 
into the pan (you have been already told how to know if the 
fat is at the proper temperature), which shake to prevent 
sticking and burning. The first side will take about five 
minutes, and the second from three and a half to four ; but to 
make sure that • all is going on well, you may now and then 
(after giving the pan a shake) lift the fish a little with your 
slice, to see if it be getting brown. When it is so (mind it 
must be lighthvowia), it is time to turn, which you must do 
cleverly with your slice. Proceed in the same way v/ith the 
second side, and then take up ; but before dishing, drain for a 
few minutes on a strainer, or a sheet of white blotting paper, 
then serve on a hot dish (with a strainer at the bottom). 



* Of course you will use a fori: for beating up the egg. I think it neces- 
sary to mention this for the benefit of very young housewives, many of 
whom I have known to use a knife or a spoon ; indeed, as may be seen by 
the following old country adage, such errors have often beeu run into : — 

" Beat Tvith a knife 
Will cause sorrow and strife ; 
Beat with a spoon 
Will make heavy soon ; 
Beat with a fork 
Will make light as a cork." 

For " frothing," or making crcara for light puddings, you must whip up the 
egg witli a whisk. 

t As frying is loilinrj in oil instead of water, the culinary student will 
SCO that hy the fish Joeing thoroughly covered with the fat, every portion of it is 
purposed at the same moment to the same action of the heat. The albumen is 
instantly coagulated on the surfaces, which, with the egg and breadcrumbs, 
forms a coating which prevents saturation. If, however, one side be left 
uncovered, the fat, by bubbling up and dashing over it in small quantities, 
sinks into the body of the fish, wliicli is thus gradually saturated, and ren- 
dered so greasy that the flavour is destroyed, and its rankness is offensive 
to a delicate stomach. 



IIIYES PISH. 43 

Garnlsli wltli a sprig or two of crisped parsley * and then you 
have your soles dry, cy'isp, icell coloured, delicately Jlavoured, 
and pleasing alilce -to the eye and the palate. 

Plain melted hutter is the hest sauce (for which see my receipt 
further on) ; but many prefer a more expensive one, like the tea 
at the cockney refreshment establishments at Gravesend, made 
%vith shrimj)S (for which also see my receipt). 

Anchovy, Hervey, Worcester, or Reading sauces should be on 
the table to suit all tastes ; but I would recommend, if you 
wish to have the sweet flavour of the fish, nothing but plain 
mielted butter. 

"When you have dished up your fish, strain the fat you have 
fried it in, and put it aside in a jar, as it will serve several 
times (of course for nothing else but fish) ; but if you can afford 
it, have /res A material every time. 

Yery large -soles should be cut into three or four pieces 
(before the Qg^ and bread crumbing), or " fiileted," which is 
effected by passing a sharp knife down the centre and the inner 
edge of the fins, and tearing the " flesh" from the bones. This 
is a Prencli method, parsued in clubs and large establishments ; 
but for homely kitchens it will be found extravagant. 

Plaice, jlounders, eels, ivhitings, gudgeons, trout, small 
hrill, fdlets and cutlets of salmon, tiirhot, halibut, and cod, 
when fried, are cooked in the same manner as soles. 

Mackerel, though generally boiled and served with a little 
fennel in melted butter, are very tasteful v/lien split up the 
back, and broiled in the French fashion, with a small piece of 
cold butter and a little chopped parsley put on them when 
served. Eels (in pieces) are also very good when done on the 
gridiron. 

Herrings and sprats should alicays be broiled. 

Carp, pile e, jack, mullet, and river fish in general, should be 
baked or stewed. Eels can be stewed, or spitchcocJced, or 
dressed in the French fashion, en matelotte. The latter mode, 
as it requires numerous accessories, is expensive, but, as I wish 

* Parsley is crispod by being taken out of cold water and thrown into 
tlie boiling fat for half an instant, after you have taken out yoar fi^h, which, 
as the old country housewives say, makes it 

" As crisp as glass 
And green as grass." 



44 THE DIN^'ER QUESTION. 

iiu' book to contain receipts for clislies for *' high days and 
■ holidays," as well as " \vorking--da3\s," I will give instructions 
fof it hereafter ; but I will first show you how to produce 

STEWED EELS. 

The first step to be taken is to slin the eels : now this is 
perhaps the most unpleasant task that falls to the lot of a cook; 
as the necessity for having them quite fresh requires that they 
should not be killed until a few minutes before they are to be 
dressed ; and their tenacity of life is so great that it is very 
difficult for inexperienced hands to deprive them of it. 

The following humane suggestion by Doctor Kitchener on 
this, to all housewives, most painful subject, will, I am certain, 
be read with great interest, and adopted by all nn/ pupils : — 

"To kill eels instantly, vfiiXiowi the horrid torture of cutting 
and skinning them alive, pierce the spinal marrow, close to the 
back part of the skull, with a sharp pointed skewer : if this 
be done in the right place all motion will instantly cease." 

Francatelli confirms this, and adds, " Then take a firm hold 
of the eel with a cloth in the left hand, and with the right 
proceed to detach the skin just below the gills with the point 
of a small knife ; Avhen there is a sufficient quantity of shin 
loosened, so as to gain a purchase, hold the head firmly with 
the left hand, and with a cloth in the right, force the skin to 
slide ofl' the fish. Then cut off" the head, make an incision 
about tvro inches in length at the vent, and the same at the 
neck, draw the gut, &c., trim away the fins, wash and 
thoroughly cleanse each fish, wipe them w^ith a cloth, and then, 
after sprinkling them wnth salt, let them be in a dish for an 
hour or so previously to dressing them." 

Returning to ony directions, — After skinning, gutting, and 
thoroughly washing, cut into pieces of about three or four 
inches, place them in a stewpan with just water enough to 
cover them, stew (jently for about five and twenty minutes, 
skim oft' the fat, then chop up three or four oysters, and throw 
them into the pan, mix two teaspoonfuls of flour with the 
oyster liquor, and add a little chopped parsley, which also 
throw into the pan ; shake well round two or three times, and 
serve in a hot deep dish; flavour with a little salt and pej)per, 



■iS' 



STEWED EELS. 45 

and grated or cliopped lemon-peel; you may add for those who. 
like the unfashionable, but very useful and cheap esculent, a "'. ;^. 
small roasted onion minced very fine. '-■■ ) • - 

SPITCHCOCKED EELS. 

This process consists of first lightly stewing and then broiling 
the eels instead of simply frying them. The preliminary pre- 
paration being precisely the same, viz., after you have skinned 
your fish (some recommend that the skin should not be taken 
off, but I have found the oil in it very apt to make the "Jlesk" 
rank), split them down the belly, and take out the bone, &c., 
wash them well, and cut them into pieces of three or four 
inches ; then (here you leave the simple frying process), having 
put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, with a little minced 
parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, a leaf or two of sage, and 
a small shalot, chopped very fine. Having well egged and 
breadcrumbed your eels, put them in the pan, let them remain 
just long enough to set the coating with the butter and herbs 
on hot/i sides, then put them 'on the gridiron (which of course 
is in loorJcing order), first rubbing the bars with a bit of suet 
to prevent the pieces from sticking, broil for a few minutes 
until hoth sides are ligJit brown, garnish with crisped parsley, 
and serve with melted butter and anchovy sauce. If you 
would prefer a sJicny sauce, see the directions given under that 
head. 

EELS EX 3IATEL0TTE. 

This is a dish very often attempted, but for the want of a 
good and intelligible receipt is seldom well produced. In the 
French cookery books we read with dismay of " white veloute 
sauce," a " 7'oux," an '' avihigu," a " supreme - grenadins" 
'^hlonde," &c. &c., put into a " hai)ijnarie" v/ith cray fish 
tails, the "croustade" to be garnished v^Aith a group of small 
" quenelles' of whiting, &c. &c., and with the best intentions, 
like one who feels for the door in a dark room, we frequently 
knock our heads against the fireplace. 

The following plainly expressed and carefully composed 
receipt for this very delicate and savoury dish, will, I hope, be 
found useful : — Begin with half a pound of shin of beef, " score" 
it — that is, cut the piece nearly through in several places, so 



46 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

that by presenting several surfaces to the water, the jin'ce may 
be sooner extracted ; put it with a little salt into a stewpan 
with cold water, just enough to cover it ; then slice a good 
sized onion, a small carrot, and half a turnip, and fry them, 
with an ounce of butter, light brown ; put them into the stew- 
pan with the beef, a blade of mace, and two bay leaves, and 
stew gently for four hours. 

IsTow to make your ibrce-meat balls. A couple of good fat 
oysters, half a teaspoonful of capers, a small piece of minced 
lemon-peel, the yolk of a hard-boiled e^^, a small baked or 
roasted onion (this can be done by putting it before the fire in 
the tin of a cheese toaster), a sprig of parsley, a couple of 
button mushrooms, a sprig of dried marjoram, a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, a small piece of cold veal or 
beef, raw ham or lean bacon, a " grate" or two of nutmeg, and 
a little cayenne— chop very fine ; then beat up an Qgg, and mix 
all the above with it, taking care not to make the paste it will 
form too wet ; roll into balls about the size of a small walnut, 
which roll in flour; put them in the oven to bake for ten 
minutes, and set them aside until your eels are ready to be 
dished. 

When your beef is sufficiently stewed, take it out, and strain 
off the gravy ; return the latter into the stewpan, and put your 
eels into it (they must be cut into pieces of about three inches), 
stew about twenty minutes; skim off the fat, and then put in 
your force-meat balls, with half a dozen whole button mush- 
rooms, half a dozen small oysters, without their beards, and 
their liquor mixed with a teaspoonful of flour; stew five 
minutes more, then put two tablespoonfuls of port wine, a 
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and half a teaspoonful of 
soy, in the dish ; do not put them in the stewpan, or you will 
injure your flavour ; shake the dish round for the wine, &c., to 
mix, and turn the eels and their gravy; into it; the pieces should 
be taken out of the pan with your slice, to prevent splashing 
the gravy ; lightly sprinkle the whole surface with cayenne ; 
garnish with a few pieces of fried eels, sprigs of crisped parsley; 
and there you have your matclotte, which, I am confident, you 
will find so good that you will not say of it, " O'S'e. teial will 

SUFFICE." 

Now, while my hand is in for " holiday" dishes, I'll give you 
a receipt for one of my own invention; which I call 



HASHED MUTTON. 47 

FILETS DE SOLE A LA TICKLETOOTH. 

'' FiUef" a good sized sole, making, by dividing QdiC\\ fillet, 
eight pieces, dredge these lightly with flour, put them in a thin 
cloth to dry, then put the head, fins, and bones {the fillet being 
taken from the centre of the fish, the shoulders and tail should be 
fried for garnishing) into a small stewpan with the beards of two 
or three oysters, two button mushrooms, a small roasted onion, 
two slices of carrot, a piece of lemon-peel, and a little salt, all 
chopped very fine. 

Now put the fillets, v/hich must be slightly egged, but not 
bread-crumbed, into another pan with an ounce of butter; fry 
them quickly light brown, then add the gravy (which of course 
has been strained) ; stew a quarter of an hour, take ofl' the fat, 
and add a few small force-meat balls, made in the same manner 
as for the Fel Matelotte. 

Put into the dish j ust before you serve half a glass of Sherry 
or Madeira, and a teaspoonful of walnut or tomato catsup. 

Garnish with the shoulders and tail (cut in small pieces) of 
the sole, gudgeons, or smelts, fried, and " diamonds" of 
spinach, either plainly boiled, or beaten up vvdth a little butter 
or cream, and a teaspoonful of chopped capers. 

This is simply a variety of the matelotte previously described, 
but it possesses an advantage from the sole being less rich than 
the eel, and its preparation is ah;o less expensive and troublesome. 

IS'othing more need be said at present on frying, hroiling, 
hoMiig, or steioing fish, as you are now no doubt perfectly able 
to deal with all the " smaller fry ;" but, when I come by and bye 
to French cookery receipts, I may perhaps introduce you to a 
few more " holiday" extravagances. The general directions 
already given have shown you how to hoil and to time accu- 
rately the various kinds offish ; if you attend carefully to them, 
you need have no fear for the result of your experiments. 

I now come to the dish which has so long been the terror of 
husbands, and is quoted by stomach-loving old bachelors as one 
of their most powerful reasons against venturing on matrimony. 

HASHED MUTTO^^. 
" Ob words of fear ! 
Unpleasing to the married ear." 

Yv'hat a vista of steam, soap-suds, and the soles of his old 
boots swimming in greasy hot water, rises to the mind's-eye of 
a poor Faterfainilias when the "partner of his bosom" an- 



48 THE DINKEE QUESTION. 

nonnces to him that he must manage to-morrow with the 
'• hashed mutton !" and how man}' " artful wretches," suspecting 
that they are to he trepanned into dining on this Spartan 
bh\ck broth equivalent, have held a colloquy with their servant 
after this fashion : — 

Mastee of the House. — " Oh ! Mary {affecting to ignore 
the soap-suds, and the entrance of the li^ashericoman with 
something very lilce a hottle concealed under her aprori). 
By the bye, what is there for dinner to-day ?" 

Maky. — "Dinner, sir? {innocently ])retending ignorance) 
I think it's hashed mutton." 

Mastee of the House. — " H'm. Oh ! tell your mistress 
'when she comes in, that I may possibly be detained in the city 
to-day on business, and she is on no account to wait dinner for 
me. {Aside as he goes out :) Ough ! hashed mutton again ! 
I'm sick of that nauseous mess. I'll drop down to Greenwich 
with Jawkins, and try the whitebait." 

Although such hashed-mutton-eluding excuses have become 
almost as general as " severe indisposition," or " I'm obliged to 
go to Manchester to settle that confounded law business" on the 
Derhy-day, I hope to show that by employing a little skill and 
contrivance this hitherto unsavoury dish is capable of being 
made one of the nicest and most nutritive that can be placed on 
an}' plain table. But bear in mind that meat, or any other 
alimentary substance which has already been cooked, does not 
possess sufficient osmuzome to make gravy, and that you must 
supply the deficiency with fresh juices extracted from foreign 
sources. Ignorance of this very obvious necessity for creating 
succulency as the first principle is the cause of our dislike to 
hashing; re-cooking in any ivay being moreover not only 
generally repulsive to the palate, but equally often devoid of 
nourishment. 

The French, our superiors in the theory and practice of the 
culinary art, never attempt a rechauffee without especial obser- 
vance of this principle. They first restore the juices of the 
foundation they have to work upon, with strong stock, and 
then proceed to obtain flavour and appearance. This is my plan 
for preparing hashed mutton. 

Put half a pound of shin of beef, scored as I have before 
explained, into a stewpan with half a pint of cold water, and 
any cold gravy that may be left from the first cooking ; simmer 



HINGED YEAI. 49 

gently two houts, tlien lightly brown in the frying-pan, a 
moderate sized onion, a small carrot, and half a tm-nip cut in 
thin slices. While the beef is stewing, cut the mutton from 
the bone in neat slices, about four inches square, and a quarter 
of an inch thick (taking care to trim off the gristle, burnt skin, 
and sinews) ; if it be underdone, so much the better, as it will 
have more natural juice ; should, however, the joint have been 
boiled, you must lightly fry the slices with a little butter. 

About an liour before you want to serve your dinner, ^tvoAW the 
gravy from the beef and vegetables,* and put it in the stewpan, 
to which add the slices of mutton. Here, let me say, is a 
correction of one of the greatest errors in hashing — the usual 
method is to put the mutton into the pan about ^re minutes 
before dishing ! thereby just giving it time to warm ; the 
consequence is, by being merely scalded with the poor broth 
which has been obtained by stewing the bone with an onion 
and a large quantity of water, it is sodden, tough, and totally 
flavourless ! 

By my plan, the meat is gradually saturated with the good 
and strong gravy formed by the fresh beef and vegetables, 
imbibing their flavour of course, and rendered tender at the 
same time from the stewing. 

When just ready to serve, carefully skim off all the fat, mix 
a teaspoonful of flour with a tablespoonful of the gravy, which 
you must put aside and save for the purpose at the time you 
strain it from the beef, and add them to the hash ; put a tea- 
spoonful of mushroom -catsup, and (if possible) two teaspoonfuls 
of port wine into the dish ; sprinkle lightly the whole surface 
with cayenne pepper ; garnish with thin triangular sippets of 
toasted bread; and there you have your hashed mutton; which 
I can confidently say, particularly if it be eaten with currant 
jelly, is equal, if not superior, both in flavour and nourish- 
ment, to the general run of venison. 

MINCED VEAL. 

This is another "family dish," which, from its natural 
insipidit}^, and unskilful treatment in cooking, bears even a 

* Tlie best way to extract the juice of the vegetables is to press them 
between two plates ; but if you are catering for a family, T would recom- 
mend you to leave them untouched in the pan, taking out nothing but the 
beef, which will be stewed to rags. 

D 



50 THE DITfNER QUESTIOK". 

worse character than hashed mutton. Let me endeavour to 
point out a method of rendering it as agreeable, if not as 
nutritious, as its fellow-sufferer in reputation. 

Prepare a gravy with shin of beef and vegetables, as for 
hashed mutton ; mince the veal very fine, taking out all the 
sinews, skin, and burnt pieces ; put it in the pan with the 
gravy ; stew gently three-quarters of an hour ; skim carefully ; 
then add half a dozen oysters, cut in quarters, a little of the 
stuffing left from the roast, a teaspoonful of flour mixed with 
the oyster liquor, and a "grate" of nutmeg; squeeze a lemon 
in the dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 

Believing that the minute instructions I have given you for 
the preparation of the foregoing two " standing dishes" at all 
plain tables will be sufficient to guide you in re-cooking any- 
thing which should be done in the stewpan, I will here observe, 
that every kind of cold meat, particularly salted beef and roast 
pork, can be made very palatable by being fried with slices of 
onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips, &c., or a la " Bubble axd 
Squeae," with the cabbage or greens of the preceding day's 
dinner chopped up with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, and a 
cold potato or two, mashed with a little milk ; or, in what the 
old cookery books delight to say, 

ANOTHER WAY WITH POTATOES A LA 3IAITRE D'HOTEL. 

I once saw in a newspaper account of a civic banquet, "slices 
de cod broiled," and " saddle de mutton a la Wales," so I hope 
to be excused for mixing my French titles. 

This very popular and tasteful vegetable recJiaiiffec is 
effected by cutting already cooked potatoes into small pieces, 
and frying them with a little butter, black pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley. 

FRIED POTATOES, 

Which the French do so well, and travelled English always as- 
sociate with " clumpy'' beef-steaks, cut from the under part of the 
sirloin, are prepared thus — cut some good sized raw potatoes 
into slices a " little more" than the eighth of an inch thick, 
dry them in a cloth, and put them into a good quantity of 
boiling lard or dripping, shake them well ; in about three 
minutes turn them, fry the other side the same time, then take 
them out, strain them, and serve them round the dish. 



WABMIITG-UP EECEItTS. 51 

All these accessories, particularly the fried potatoes, are of 
great use in second cookings, -wliether they Avait on the frying- 
pan or the gridiron, and should therefore be looked upon by the 
thrifty housewife as her best elements for rendering " Banyan" 
or make-shift dinners agreeable. 

To enumerate the many dishes which can be artistically, and 
at the same time satisfactorily, turned out from second-hand 
materials, would far exceed the limit of this work. I shall 
therefore confine myself to but two more examples, and pass to 
receipts for more important productions. 

The first of my concluding " twice laid " or " warming-up " 
receipts is a very tasteful method of 

REEOASTING. 

It is simply to cut your cold beef, mutton, veal, or pork, into 
neat slices of about the third of an inch thick, and the whole 
length of the sirloin, rib, or whatever other part you may have 
to work upon, and place them in a dish, on a hanger in front 
of the fire, covering each slice with as much as possible 
of the gravy left from the first cooking, or should that be 
wanting, a little strong stock. Sprinkle lightly with cayenne, 
turn, and baste with the gravy until tlioroufjlily hot, then serve 
immediately on a very hot dish. You can garnish \^\\}l\. fresh 
fried or a la mattre cTJiotel potatoes, spinach, plain or beaten 
up, warmed-up greens or cabbage. 

Tins, particularly' if the cold meat be underdone, is a mode of 
second cooking by no means to be despised. 

DEVILLING, 
Or broiling with cayenne, is also a good expedient to coax the 
palate when you have relics of poultry or game. Fish can 
likewise be " devilled," or egged and fried with a small piece 
of butter and bread crumbs, mixed with a little dried thyme, 
marjoram, and/re^/e parsley crumbled and chopped very fine. 

T03IAT0 SAUCE. 
Which is made by skinning a ripe tomato, beating up the 
pulp, and stewing it, in a small pan, with half an ounce of 
butter, a little cayenne, and a small shalot, half an hour.* 

* This sauce can also be mads to be kept in bottles, and used in small 
quantities as anctovy, Readinj, and other sauces, for flavouring; for 

d2 



52 THE DIKNER QUESTION. 

Served in a butter-boat, mixed with a little vinegar, it will 
be found an excellent sharj) sauce for cold meat, hashes, and 
devils of every description. 

Here I conclude my instructions for second cooking, which 
have occupied more space than I intended at the outset of my 
Ivork to devote to them, but feeling as I progressed that to 
re-dress the remnants of the preceding day's dinner with appetite- 
creating and stomach-satisfying results is a point of importance, 
I have made my information as minute and extensive as possible. 

HAEICOT MUTTON. 

This dish is nothing more than mutton chops browned in 
the frying-pan, and then stewed in just water enough to cover 
them, with pieces of onion, carrot, and turnip (also browned), 
cut into dice and placed upon them, flavoured with mushroom 
or walnut catsup, tomato or Reading sauce, and served with a 
slice or t^vo of pickled gherkins. 

IRISH STEW. 

Another variety of stewed mutton ; but " although," as an 
Irishman observed, " it is the sister of the haricot, it's another 
individual, and must be differently educated to be presmtable ; 
for, in the first place, the mutton's half beef, and in the next, 
the carrots and turnips are repealed for potatoes !" 

The following is a receipt I obtained in Ireland, and repeated 
trials have proved it to be a "purty invintion." 

Put a rump-steak into a good-sized stewpan, and cover it 
with slices of a Spanish onion, sprinkle wdth salt, then place on 
the onions a cutlet of mutton, with the bone taken out, or two 
or three not too fat chops ; cover the mutton with another layer 
of onions, a sprinkle of salt, half-a-dozen black pepper corns, 
and one clove ; barely cover with water, and stew gently 
two hours. In the mean time, peel half-a-dozen middling-sized 
good mealy potatoes, and boil them in a saucepan for ten 
minutes ; then take them out, and (having previously removed 
every eye of fat from the pan) place them on the top of the 

which purpose purchape in the months of August or September a quantity 
of the love-apples, and prepare them as follows : — Take off the skins, and 
beat the pulp with vinegar — reckoning about half a pint to three apples — 
stew a quarter of an hour, add a little more vinegar, and bottle 5 but do 
not cork until the sauce is cold. 



STEWED BEEF. 53 

second laj-er of onions, cover with a closely-fitting lid, and 
simmer for ticenty minutes, when your stew will be ready for 
serving in a deep dish, with the meat and onions in the centre, 
and the potatoes, as a guard of honour, surrounding them. 
After you have taken out the meat and vegetables, put two 
teaspoonfuls of catsup and a teaspoonful of flour into the 
gravy, give it a concluding boil, and then pour it upon the 
meat. 

The advantages of this Irish method over the usual English 
one of filling the stewpan at the commencement with alternate 
layers of mutton, onions, and potatoes, are, that the beef foun- 
dation adds strength and flavour, and the potatoes being boiled 
in a separate saucepan, can be freed from their white froth, and 
moreover will not be " stewed to death," and converted into 
pulp. 

STEWED BEEF. 

Lender this head a greater number of dishes may be classed 
than can be furnished by any other kind of meat, for it com- 
prises every part of the ox, from the tip of its nose to the last 
joint of its tail. The shin, however, distancing even the sir- 
loin and the round, leads the van in the homely kitchen ; for 
in addition to its being the foundation of a host of soups and 
gravies, it forms in its integrity, when its juices are extracted 
for its oion advantage, and the " rarjglng" of its flesh is merci- 
fully eschewed, one of the best family dishes that England 
rejoices in, fully carrying out the qualities enumerated b}^ the 
old proverb, " Of all the foiols in the air commend me to the 
SHIN OF BEEF ; for there's marrow for the master, meat for 
the mistress, gristles for the servants, and bones for the dogs !" 
It is prepared and cooked as follows : — 

Procure a nice fleshy shin, weighing about six or seven 
pounds with the bone, which the butcher should saw into three 
or four pieces ; put it in your iron " black pot," for you may 
probably not have a stewpan large enough, and just cover it 
\nt\\ cold water. 

As soon as the broth begins to bubble, skim carefully, and 
put in a little salt, allspice, black pepper, cayenne, three cloves, 
a blade of mace, a large onion, two or three small carrots, and 
a head of celery cut in pieces ; stew (with the lid on) for four 
hours ; then take out the meat, cut it in neat slices fyom the 



54 THE Dl^'KEK QUESTiOijr. 

bone,* and put it in a hot deep dish, while you mix, for 
** thickening," ii teacupful of the gravy and three tablespoonfuls 
of flour ; skim carefully, then add the thickening, stir round, 
boil up half a mimite, and pour the gravy, flavoured with 
catsup, Harvey, or tomato, and (if vrithin your reach) a glass of 
port wine — over the meat. 

This is a plain yet very savour}^ family dish, and as the meat 
can ahvays be had for Jive jpence per pound, and often for less, 
the cost is very moderate. 

STEWED EUMP OF BEEF. 

The treatment of this dish is nearly the same as that of the 
preceding; but the quantities of the vegetables, &c., being 
slightly different, I will give you the receipt with the variations, 
in order that you may be sure j'ou are right; for much of the 
success of this and every other made dish depends on the nice 
calculation of the qnajifities, and a Judicious employment of 
the proper vegetables and condiments. 

Put four pounds of the top of a rump of beef (hung a suffi- 
cient time to have become tender) into a stewpan, with a quart 
of cold water, then add three English or six small French 
carrots (the latter need only to be cut down the middle, but the 
former must be halved and quartered), one turnip cut in 
quarters, one whole good sized browned onion, half-a-dozen 
whole button mushrooms, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
dozen black pepper corns, and let this stew gently four hours ; 
take out the meat, place it in a deep dish, with the vegetables 
round it, skim the fat from the gravy, thicken with two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour, mixed with a tablespoon ful of walnut, tomato, 
or mushroom catsup ; boil up for an instant, and pour over the 
meat. This is also a plain but tasteful dish, and can be pro- 
duced with very little more trouble than the stewed shin. 

BEEF STEAKS PKEPAI^ED LIKE IRISH STEW. 
Cut two pounds of steaks from a rump or round of beef, 
which has been hung until it is tender, about three-quarters of 

* If you wish to preserve the marrow as a bonne (I liad nearly written 
hone) louche " for the master," according to the proverb, cover the ends of 
the bone with a little flour-and-water paste, over Avhich tie a piece of 
coarse muslin to prevent the marrow from escaping into the pan. Served 
on a slice of toast, with a little salt and Cayenne, this is a dehcacy fit 
for an epicure. 



bXEWEU HUMP-STEAK. 65 

an inch thick, and divide them into pieces of four or five 
inches square ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with part of 
them, then strew over them a thin layer of pounded spices and 
finely chopped vegetables, composed of a good sized onion, a 
small carrot, half a turnip, two sprigs of fresh parsley, a strip 
of celery, a dozen black pepper corns, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
three cloves, and a blade of mace ; over this put another layer of 
meat, and alternate layers of the vegetables and meat until all 
your materials are disposed of. 

Then put a little more than half a pint of cold water, or 
"stock," if you have it in store; cover closely, and stew gently 
(shaking the pan frequently to prevent burning) for about two 
hours ; season and thicken with a tablespoonful of walnut, 
tomato, or mushroom catsup ; a teaspoonful of flour, mixed well 
with a teacupful of the gravy taken from the pan ; simmer 
for two minutes, to set the thickening, and serve in a deep 
dish. 

Having given, in the three preceding receipts, the plain and 
economical methods of stewing beef, I will now ofier one for a 
" holiday" effort, which, although it is more elaborate and costly, 
is still within the limit of the *' homely IcitcJien," and ought 
to be at the "fingers' ends" of the thrifty housewife for grand 
occasions. It is the rival of the veal cutlet of our English 
taverns, and is very nearly allied to the famous "Jilets de hoeuf 
saute" of the great Yatel. I scarcely need say it is a 

STEWED EUMP-STEA.K. 

To cook this well will not only tax your skill, but your 
patience ; therefore pay particular attention to all my instruc- 
tions. . 

Of course the meat must have been hung a sufficient time to 
have become tender. For a substantial dish you will require 
two pounds of evenly cut rump-steaks, about an inch and a 
half thick ; these must be cut in half, for your pan will not 
be broad enough to receive the steaks in their whole length. 

Take care that the butcher does not give you " knobbly" 
corners, or one end thin and the other thick, for if the surface 
on either side be uneven, or one part thicker than the other, 
your steak will not stew " cleverly." 

This observation may probably appear needless to those who 
are not practised in the niceties of the art, but every experienced 



Id THE DINGER QUESTIO?f. 

cook well knows that, in all cutlet slews, evenness, hoik in 
surface and thiclcness, is of the greatest consequence. 

Now, to make sure of an even surface, and improve the 
tenderness of your steak, give it two or three smart blows on 
both sides with a flat wooden bat, made and kept for the 
especial purpose of beating, or, in kitchen parlance, " tendering" 
cutlets, steaks, &c. &c. ; do not use the rolling-pin, for that is a 
slovenly make-shift Avhich does its work imperfectly. 

As a stewed steak should be dark in its colour, and crisp as 
well as tender, you must brown Avell (or rather half fry) hotJi 
sides four minutes, with a few thin slices of onion, carrot, 
turnip, and a strip of celery; then, having stewed for an hour 
and a half in a small saucepan, half a pint of small onions in a 
little more than half a pint of water ;* pour their liquor into 
the pan (reserving the onions in the oven for dishing) ; add a 
dozen corns of black pepper, and stew (with the cover on) an 
hour and a half; skim carefully ; then take out the meat while 
you pass the gravy and vegetables through a fine sieve ; when 
this is done, put it (the grav}") in another small sauce stewpan, 
with a tablespoonful of nmshroom catsup, a quarter of a spoon- 
ful of cayenne, and a glass of port or claret (on this occasion 
one or the other must be had) ; put this pan on the fire, mix 
well, and thicken with flour to the consistence of tJiiu paste ; 
then pour the whole into the other pan, over the meat, and 
simmer for two or three minutes. 

Serve in a hot deep dish, with the small onions, previously 
browned in the oven, encircling the meat and the gravy. 

The above will be found to be the plainest, eiisiest, and 
cheapest way of producing this very delicious dish ; but should 
you desire a higher and richer flavour, and don't mind the 
trouble and expense, instead of flavouring your gravy Avith the 
articles I have enumerated, substitute half a teacupful of 

ESrAGKOLE SAUCE. 

Which is thus prepared : — Brown in the fryingpan Avith an ounce 
of butter, a slice of lean ham, two thin slices of veal, and half 

* Whenever the phrase " a little more" than a pint, a glass, a pound, 
&c. &e., occurs, it is meant to convey that the measure should be '•brim- 
mbig" and the weight " lumpivfj:' Too little is as bad as too mucli in 
delicate cookery; to hit the happy medium should be the study of the 
intelligent practitioner. 



COOKING IN THE CRIMEA. 57 

the back or leg of a rabbit ; then put them in a stewpan with a 
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, another of mushroom catsup, 
a clove of garlic, and as much beef stock as will cover them ; 
stew gently until the meat is reduced to rags ; then strain the 
gravy through a fine sieve. When you serve, you Viiiist add a 
glass of port or claret. 

There are various " utJier ways'' of stewing beef, mutton, 
veal, &c., but as they all embrace nearly the same elements as 
those I have detailed, they do not need any special mention. 

EVEEY EECEIPT IN THIS BOOK IS FOUNDED UPON MY 

PEESONAL EXPEEIENCE, my aim being not to offer a mere 
alphabetical list of a great number of " fancy" dishes, many of 
them impracticable or too expensive for those who only possess 
small means to produce, but a few peactical, simple, and 

HOMELY DIEECTIONS, AS THE GEOUNDWOEKS OF ALL FAMILY 

CGOKEEY, by which the novice in the art may easily become 
acquainted with the properties of the various materials employed 
(which professed cooks rarely dream of inquiring into), and 
acquire from the plain rules here laid down, the best methods of 
preparing them for the table. 

When you know how to fry a sole, to make a matelotte, to 
hash, mince, roast, broil, bake, and stew beef, mutton, veal, 
pork, and vegetables, on proper principles, you are in possession 
of the stem from which all the more elaborate and costly varieties 
branch. 

I have purposely endeavoured not to confuse the choice of 
the student, nor record my own want of faith in my directions 
by introducing variations on each theme, under the custoniar}'- 
phrase of anothee way ; I point out but one which I have 
personally proved to be " the best of all ways," and leave to the 
growing knowledge, experience, and taste of my pupils to improve 
upon it, or invent " other li-aijs" for themselves, according to 
their means or fancy. 

I will now give a iew foundation receipts for making soups, 
gravies, and plain pies and puddings, and pass to the conside- 
ration of another most important division of the subject — 

THE DINNEE QUESTION IN CLUBS, EESTAUEAMTS, DINING-EOOMS, 
AND CHOP-HOUSES. 

In the late war in the Crimea, when our soldiers had un- 
roasted coiFee and scanty rations of salt beef and pork served 
out to them, to be cooked in any ^Yay their ingenuity could 



58 THE Dl^'XER QUESTION. 

contrive, which in general extended no farther than the use of 
a frying-pan, and a ramrod as a toasting-fork, the French had 
attached to every file of men a " hatter ie de cuisine" in the 
shape of a "pot aufeu," or " hlacJcpot,'' in which they chibbed 
their rations (inferior both in quantity and succulence to ours), 
and with the addition of a few carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, 
and even sorrel and nettles (gathered on the spot), produced 
several quarts of nourishing soap and a savoury dish of meat, 
proving that in cookery, as in everything else, " knowledge is 
power." 

To make soup well is a branch of domestic economy of no 
little importance, for it is often the one dish which forms the 
entire dinner of the work man and his family. The good 
housewife should, therefore, make it her first study to render 
herself mistress of everything relating to it. 

The first step is to produce what is called in the language of 
cookery, 

STOCK. 

which is a strong essence, or meat broth, to serve as the foun- 
dation of soups, gravies, sauces, made dishes, hashes, &c. &c. 
There are two kinds of this very valuable assistant — viz., 
** brown," Avhich is made from brown meats, and " white," 
which is composed from veal, chickens, turkeys, and rabbits. 

The materials for producing each should be collected in what 
is called a 

STOCK POT, 

which is simply an iron kettle or saucepan, with a closely fitting 
lid. Subordinate to this regular stock, both kinds of which are 
indispensable in great kitchens, is the 

POT AU FEU, OR BLACK POT, 

SO long the " poor man's friend" in every part of the Conti- 
nent, and which no JEnglish kitchen should he without. Into 
this careful housewife's " save-all " should be thrown all the 
pieces and trimmings of every description of meat, poultry, and 
vegetables that may have been prepared for roasting, frying, &c., 
with liquor from " boilings," uncooked bones, gristle, and 
sinews of mutton, beef, veal, lamb, .and pork, heads and feet 
(previously scalded to takeoff the small feathers and outer skin), 
necks, livers, gizzards, and hearts of poultry and game, and 



Xili: PUT AL' i-EL'. 59 

every clean and succulent scrap that may be left from any- 
thing you have prepared for the fire. 

The pot should be gently " seethed " on the hob for four or 
five hours, and the " scum" carefully taken off two or three 
times, when the liquor should be strained off and put aside in 
a tureen, or any other earthemoare pan (without a cover), and 
kept in the larder until needed. 

As the fat will have formed a coating over the surface of the 
broth (which ought to form a jelly), and there will be a sedi- 
ment at the bottom, for even the finest sieve will not entirely 
clear it, you have only to cut out as much jelly as you have 
occasion to use, and remove from it the fat and the sediment, 
leaving the remainder to be dealt with in the same manner. 
In hot weather you must hoil up the jelly every day, or it will 
turn sour and be spoiled ; but in cold weather you may keep it 
two or three days at a time. 

Soup, respecting the nutritive merits of which doctors 
disagree, has been proved, by its generally suiting the 
delicate stomachs of invalids, and many persons whose digestive 
organs are either tempordril}- or permanontly impaired, to be a 
most palatable and digestible aliment ; witness the chicken soup, 
which gives the old, or the long suffering weakened, "strength 
to bear the fatigues of the day, and then who can deny the 
comfort and benefit of a basin of plain mutton broth or beef- 
tea when out of sorts, from whatever cause ? 

Throughout the continent of Europe it is the chief support 
of the poorer classes, and its non-adoption in England is perhaps 
chiefly attributable to the fact that there has not been, until 
Doctor Kitchener first, and subsequently Soyer, took the subject 
in hand, any good and cheap practical receipts for making it. 

Long before I thought of turning my culinary experience to 
account in this way, I had endeavoured to discover some good 
and palatable method of making the liquor left from a boiled 
leg of mutton, a fowl, or a piece of salted beef or pork, available 
for the foundation of the next day's dinner. I consulted 
cookery books in vain, for I gleaned nothing but expensive 
receipts, somewhat resembling the following : — *•' Take two or 
three quarts of strong clear consomme, add to it four or five 
pounds of good gravy beef, a tough old hare (good for nothing 
else), or an old partridge, a pound or two of I'at bacon, the legs 
and winrfs of a rabbit, a gill of port wine, half a teacupful of 



60 THE DINNEPw QUESTIO:S'. 

mushroom catsup, a fagot of sweet herbs, and some carrots, 
turnips, and onions, cut in fanciful devices." I am not ashamed 
to say I have been obliged to try other and more attainable 
ways, and have at last arrived at the knowledge how good, 
wholesome, and palatable soup, fit to he served on ant table, 
van be made, and this may be called 

WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

Put five or six pounds of the top of a rump of beef into a 
large iron saucepan, or pot, with three quarts of cold water, and 
a teaspoonful of salt, and to prevent the side of the meat which 
covers the bottom of the pan from burning, place it on a wire 
trivet, which will also have the advantage of bringing it to 
an equal action of the heat from having the water all round it 
— the trivet should be used for all kinds of meat you have to 
boil — so treasure up this as a valuable hint. Let the soup sim- 
mer gentl}^ until the scum rises ; you must then skim carefully, 
and put in another quart of cold water, which, when the 
saucepan is placed on the fire, will after a few minutes cause 
more scum to rise. When you have taken this ofi", your soup 
w^ill be clear of all impurities. Xow put in your vegetables, 
which should consist of two large onions, lightly browned before 
the fire in a Dutch oven, four carrots, six turnips cut in quarters, 
two heads of celery cut in pieces about two inches long, two 
bay leaves, two dozen pepper corns, two cloves, half a clove of 
garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, formed of sprigs of marjoram, 
lemon, and common thyme, and winter savory, a large broiling 
mushroom broken in pieces; simmer (with the lid of the pot closely 
fitted) for four hours, when you must take out the meat, and after 
carefully skimming off the fat, strain the vegetables from the 
liquor, and reduce them to pulp by beating them with a wooden 
spoon, then replace the liquor and pulp in the pan, thicken 
with a teaspoonful of flour, mixed with a cupful of the soup, a 
teaspoonful of walnut, mushroom, and tomato catsups. Give 
the soup a concluding boil up, and serve it with the vegetables 
in a tureen. You should in the mean time have boiled some 
cabbage, Brussels sprouts, or spinach, which you must strain 
and press, and place at the bottom of a large hot dish ; upon 
this you must put the meat, and keep it before the fire until 
the soap is despatched, then serve it, and with the soup and 
some plain boiled potatoes you will have a very good dinner 



SOrP AIN'D BOUTLLI. 61 

for a small family. You may, if you please, have some fresli 
tomatoes, beaten up and made into sauce (see my receipt), 
served with the meat in a butter boat. 

You Avill observe that this is not put forv%-ard as a very cheap 
soup, for it is made entirely o^ fresh materials; you can, how- 
ever, produce another for a great deal less money by using the 
liquor from the " Stock Pot," in place of the meat. 

In families where strict economy is imperative, the " Black 
Pot" will be found a most valuable assistant. I therefore again 
earnestly recommend its adoption. I am well aware that " poor 
people" assert that they have nothing to put into such a " hog's 
wash" receptacle, for they eat everything, to the smallest scrap, 
at first hand ; but no thought is ever given to the morrow by 
the preservation of any of the raany good and wholesome 
" trimmings," " boilings," " drippings," &c. &.C., which have 
resulted from the preparation and production of their not un- 
frequently " hot dinner." 

" Goodness knows, we are not extravagant," said the wife of 
a mill-man at Bradford ; " T, and my master, and the children, 
all work hard, and we want good nourishing things to support 
us. I don't pretend to be a grand cook ; but this I do know, 
that I make our bit of meat and vegetables, and such like, go 
as far as they can be made to go ; for there isn't a bit of fat, 
nor a crumb of bread, nor a scrap of anything that's eatable 
left after we've done our dinner." 

Have then in every kitchen a "Black Pot," and do not 
grudge to bestow upon it a little time and attention. I have 
already spoken of the preservation of ?n2Cooked remnants in the 
kitchens of those who have moderate means; I will now recom- 
mend those who must be careful to go a step further, and add 
cooked scraps (of course it is understood that everything must 
be clean, sweet, and wholesome), such as the bones (which 
should be broken) of joints, poultry, and fish — the clearings of 
plates and dishes, dripping, rinds of ham and bacon, stale pieces 
of bread (toasted brown but not burnt), scraps of paste, and 
scrapings of flour from the rolling-pin and paste-board, &c. &c. 
The tops (not the green leaves) of carrots, parsnips, leeks, and 
celery, peelings of onions and turnips ; pea-shells can also be 
made available. In fact, the careful housewife should throw 
nothing away that can by any means be turned to account ; for 
if the strict economy I have pointed out be not necessary for 



62 THE DTKNEB, QUESTtO^s-. 

her own famil}^ she will have the means at hand of providing, 
with the addition of one or two shillings for a little fresh meat, 
a good dinner for several of her poorer neighbours. 

With this view I will, in the hope of its being found valu- 
able alike to the poor man's kitchen and the charitable, who 
have but little to spare, give the receipt for a 

GOOD AND CHEAP VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Chop the tops, peelings, and shells of your vegetables into 
small pieces ; brown them in the frying-pan with a good piece 
of dripping ; then put them, with the dripping, into your black 
pot, having previously removed and strained off the liquor of 
the articles you have collected during two or three days (re- 
member, I have already told you to give the pot a " boil up" 
every day, or the broth will turn sour). Put this liquor back 
into the pot and add an ox-cheek, or two or three pounds of 
shin of beef, or a bidlock's kidney in thin slices. Stew gently 
until the meat be tender, but not in rags. 

About half an hour before dinner-time, strain off the liquor 
(beating the chopped vegetables, which will be reduced to a 
pulp through the sieve), and return it to the pot, with the peas 
you have taken from the shells (old ones will do), and stew 
again half an hour, or if the peas are very old a trifle longer. 

You must (as in all boilings and stewings) take off the scum 
as it rises from the meat, and remove the fat before you serve. 

Thicken with a little flour, and flavour with mushroom or 
w^alnut catsup. A few flour-and-water or suet dumplings may 
be advantageously added when j'ou put in the peas, to be served 
on a separate dish with the meat. Should there not be suffi- 
cient liquor from the stock-pot to make the quantity of soup 
the weight of your meat should produce, you must add cold 
water. The pieces I have named should make four quarts. 
This is a very cheap but by no means a j^oor soup; and if the 
persons for whom it be provided will look at its foundation 
without prejudice or false jnide, it will be found not only a 
great help to a slender purse, but a most palatable and satisfy- 
ing lining for a hungry stomach.'"' 

* The late Alexis Soycr, who was a true friend of the poor, and indeed 
many others who needed advice for the better management of their 
kitchens, never ceased to impress on careful housekeepers the necessity of 
using up, as they do ia France, every article that could afford nourish* 



:MOCil TURTLE SOUP. 63t 

Leaving the " Black Pot" and its homely virtues for '• metal 
niuie attractive," T will give you a receipt for 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Have the head, Tv'ith the skin on, split by the hutcher (he 
"will of com'se have scalded oft' the hair) ; remove the tongue and 
brains ; cleanse the head thoroughly, and lay it in salt and 
water with the tongue (the brains must be put in a basin by 
themselves) for an hour and a half. Then put the head, with 
a tablespoonful of salt, into a stewpan or iron pot, with just 
I cold water enough to cover it. When it has simmered gently 
half an hour, take it out (I'll tell you presently what to do with 
i it), and skim the pot carefully, for a great deal of scum will 
j rise, and put in three pounds of skirt or four pounds of shin of 
beef; a large Spanish onion, with half a dozen cloves stuck in 
it, a teaspoonful of salt, two bay leaves, a tablespoonful of black 
peppercorns, two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, all cut 
in pieces of about two inches. Xow with a sharp knife cut the 
meat and skin from the head, break the bones with a hammer, 
and put them into the pot with the beef and the vegetables 
(still keeping out the pieces of meat and skin of the head), and 
a small bunch of sweet herbs and a parsnip cut in pieces. Stew 
for three hours ; then take out the bones, strain oft" the liquor 
(of course you have previously taken off the scum), pound the 
vegetables, the beef, and the spices ; mix them with the liquor, 
simmer again for half an hour ; then strain through a hair 
sieve, and put the gravy only into the pot, in which you must 
now place the meat and skin of the head, cut into pieces of 
about tv,'o inches square, with two teaspoonfuls of salt and two 
dozen button mushrooms. Simmer three hours and a half; 
then skim carefully, and twenty minutes before dinner-time put 
in some small forcemeat balls (see my receipt for veal stuffing), 
which have been " setting" in the oven for ten minutes. Serve 
in a tureen, with half a pint of sherry or Madeira, a tablespoon- 
ful of essence of anchovy, the same of soy, and half a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne. 

The tongue may be either cut in pieces and stewed with the 
soup, or be kept for a side dish with the brains. 

ment ; but when he went on his mission to Ireland, hia advice was 
ungraciously received, — " He's taching us to make stone soup," and " It's 
making pigs of us to tell us to stew oflal and scrapings." 



64 THE DIKXEE QtlESTIOl?'. 

Ill addition to the forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard boiled 
eggs (put in whole, at the same time as the balls), will be 
found to improve the flavour of the soup. If you have more 
meat and skin than you require for your soup, take out a part , 
and set it aside with two teacupfuls of the liquor for the next 
day's dinner, for which it Avill make an excellent dish by tlie 
following treatment : — Put the liquor and a dessertspoonful of 
currj'-powder into a stewpan ; mix them well ; simmer for a 
minute or two, and put in the pieces of skin and meat, witli a 
dozen button mushrooms. Simmer half an hour more, and 
serve with the juice of a lemon squeezed into the dish. 

The foregoing is my way of making this very popular English 
soup, with as little expense and trouble as possible, and I can 
answer for its giving satisfaction ; but, as more luxurious feeders 
might perhaps like to try a higher flight, I will give a receipt 
(from Doctor Kitchener) for 

MOCK TUPtTLE, AS IT IS MADE AT BIRCH'S.* 

^' Endeavoiti' to have the calf's head and the broth ready for 
the soup the day before it is to be eaten. 

It will take eight hours to prepare it properly. 

Cleaning and soaking the head .... 1 hour 

To parboil it to cut up 1 „ 

Cooling, nearl}^ 1 „ 

Making the broth and finishing the soup . 5 „ 

8 „ 
Clet a calf's head with the skin on {i\ie fresher the better), 
take out the brains, wash the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak for about an hour in spring water, then lay it in a 
stewpan, and cover it with cold v\^ater and half a gallon over ; 
as it becomes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, which must 
be immediately removed. Let it boil gently for one hour, take 
it up, and when almost cold, cut the head into pieces about an 
inch and a half by an inch and a quarter, and the tongue into 
mouthfuls, or rather make a side dish of the tongue and brains. 

» This establishment, which is a remarkable relic of " Old London,'* 
was first opened in the year 1711, and has continued up to the present 
time to hold a high reputation for its turtle soup and pastry. The original 
shop-front and door-plates are still preserved, and present a strange 
contrast to the modern gilding and plate-glasa. 



'•HIECH's" MOCE-TUilTLE. 65 

When the head is taken out, put in about five pounds of 
knuckle of veal and as much beef, add all the trimmings and 
bones of the head, skim it well, and then cover it close, and let 
it boil five hours, and let it stand until the next morning, then 
take off the fat, set a large stewpan on the fire with half a 
pound of good fresh butter, twelve ounces of onions sliced, and 
four ounces of green sage, chop it a little, let these fry one 
hour, then rub in half a pound of flour, and by degrees add 
your broth till it is the thickness of cream, season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice, and half an ounce of 
black pepper ground very fine, salt to your taste, and the rind 
of one lemon peeled very thin ; let it simmer very gently for 
one hour and a half, then strain it through a hair-sieve — do not 
rub 3'our soup to get it through the sieve, or you will make it 
grouty ; if it does not ran through ea.si\y, knock your Avooden 
spoon against the side of your sieve ; put it in a clean stewpan 
Avith the head, and season it by adding to each gallon of soup 
half a pint of wine (Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the colour 
of your soup, claret), two tablespoon fuls of lemon-juice, the 
same of mushroom catsup, and one of essence of anchovy, a 
teaspoonful of curry-powder, or a quarter of a drachm of 
caj^enue, and the peel of a lemon pared as thin as possible ; let 
it simmer gently until the meat is tender — this may take from 
half an hour to an hour — iaJce care it is not overdone ; stir it 
frequently to prevent the meat sticking to the bottom of the 
stewpan, and when the meat is quite tender the soup is ready. 

A head weighing twenty pounds, and ten pounds of meat, 
will make ten quarts of ecccellent soup, besides two quarts of 
stock, which you can put avray for made dishes, &c. 

Observe. — If there is more meat on the head than you wish 
to put in the soup, prepare it for a pie, and with the addition 
of a calf's foot boiled tender, it will make an excellent ragout 
pie : season with sharp sauce, and a little minced onion; put in 
half a teacupful of stock, cover it with puft-paste, and bake it 
one hour ; when the soup comes from the table, if there is a 
deal of meat and no soup, put it into a pie-dish, season it a little, 
and add some little stock to it, then cover it with paste, and you 
have a good mock turtle jiie. 

This soup was eaten by ' The Committee of Taste,'* with 

* This committee was composed of tlie ilitz of the •' Grands Gourmands'* 



66 THE DINNER QUESTION, 

unanimous applause, and tliey pronounced it a very satisfactor}" 
substitute for ' the far-fetched and dearlj^-hought Tuktle,' 
which is entirely indebted for the title of Soveeeign of 
Savoueiness to the rich soup with which it is surrounded. 

Without its paraphernalia of subtle double relishes, a staeved 
TUETLE has not more intrinsic sapidity than a fatten calf ; 
friendly reader, it is really neither half so wholesome nor half 
so toothsome. 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each tureen a dozen and 
a half of mock-turtle forcemeat balls, made as follows : — Pound 
some veal in a marble mortar, rub it through a sieve, with as 
much of the udder as you have veal, or about a third of the 
quantity of butter ; put some bread crumbs into a stewpan, 
moisten them with milk, add a little chopped parsley and eschalot, 
rub them well together in a mortar till they form a smooth 
paste ; put it through a sieve, and when cold pound and mix all 
together with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard ; season it 
with salt, pepper, and curry-powder or cayenne, add to it the 
yolks of two raw eggs, rub it well together, and make small balls ; 
ten minutes before jowv soup is ready, put them in with a dozen 
of egg- balls. 

Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant addition, and are made 
by boiling the brains for ten minutes, then putting them in cold 
water, and cutting them into pieces about as big as a large nut- 
meg ; take savory or lemon thyme dried, and finely powdered, 
natmeg grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them all together; 
beat up an Qg^, dip the brains in it, and then roll them in this 
mixture, and make as much of it as possible stick to them, dip 
them on the egg again, and then in finely grated and sifted bread- 
crumbs ; fry them in hot fat and send them up as a side dish. 

A veal sweeihread, previously parboiled, and fried with sweet 
herbs, cut into pieces the same size as you cut the calf's head, and 
put in the soup just to get warm before it goes to table, is a superb 
bonne houclie, and pickled tongue, stewed till very tender, and 
cut into mouthfuls, is a favourite addition. We order the 



and wits of the day, who met at the Doctor's table to test the merits of his 
recipes. Long will these most agreeable reunions be remembered for 
their generous hospitality and hilarity. Speaking of the unremitting zeal 
of the committee, the Doctor facetiously says, " They were so truly philo- 
sophically and disinterestedly regardless of the wear and tear of teeth and 
stomach, that their labour appeared a pleasure to them," 



GEAVT SOUP. 67 

meat to be cut into moutlifuls, that it may be eaten with a spoon. 
The Jcnife and fork have no business in a soup-plaie. 

Some of our culinary contemporaries order the haut goid of 
this (as above directed sufficiently relishing) soup to be be-devilled 
with a copious addition of anchovies, mushrooms, truffles, 
morels, curry-powder, artichoke bottoms, salmon's head and 
liver, or the soft part of oysters or lobsters, soles cut into mouth- 
fuls. a bottle of Madeira, a pint of brandy, &c. ; and to com.plete 
their surfeiting and burnt-gullet olio, they put in such a 
tremendous quantity of cayenne pepper, that only a fireproof 
, palate lined with Asbestos, or indurated with Indian diet, can 
I endure it. 

I ^'^- — In helping this soup, the distributor should serve out 
I the meat, forcemeat, and gravy, in equal parts ; however trifling 
or needless this remark may appear, the writer has often suffered 
i from the want of such a hint being given to the soup server, 
\ who has sometimes sent a plate of mere gravy without meat, 
lat others of meat without gravy, sometimes scarcely anything 
but forcemeat balls. 

Observe.— This is a delicious soup within the reach of those 
who * eat to live,' but if it had been composed expressly for 
those who only ' live to eat,' I do not know how it could have 
been made more agreeable; as it is, the lover of good eating will 
' wish his throat a mile long, and every inch of it a palate.' 

KB. — Cucumber on a side-plate is a laudable vegetable ac- 
companiment." 

I have given the facetious Doctor's receipt In its integi'ity; 
br it is so good, and his observations are so amusing, that I am 
lure both will be read with interest. 

I will here observe that 

GRAVY SOUP, 

^hicli in the language of the kitchen is called '' clear stock," 
3 used not only for the jpotacje bearing its name (which is the 

houillon " or consomme of the French cuisine), but is the 
mndation of all kinds of meat sauces and gravies, and of the 
)llowing soups, the different flavom's being supplied by the 
3ok according to order. 

In the kitchens of the Parisian restaurants, small stewpans 
e2 



68 TITE PIXXEH QUESTIOX. 

conttiining macaroni, vermicelli, sliced vegetables {Julienne), 
carrot pulp, the pulp {imree) of peas, also crab, &c. &c.. are 
kept beside the " grande marmite " of stock to be mixed with 
the foundation gravy in order to meet the tastes of the various 
customers. 

I shall by-and-by give you the French receipts for producing 
both brown and white stock ; but, as they are too expensive 
for the family kitchen, it is sufficient to observe in this place 
that a small quantity of shin of beef, stewed with browned vege- 
tables in the manner I have before detailed, is all that is required 
for English brown stock ; and for white, knuckle of veal, rabbit 
or chicken, with a very small quantity of unhrowned carrots, 
turnips, white onions, and the hearts only of lettuces — you may, 
if you wish to " stretch "* the quantity, and at the same time 
add to the strength of your soup, use the liquor from your 
"pot ail feu" which term I will in future use when I wish 
to refer to general sioclv. 

Although I warmly advocate the introduction of this great 
economizer to our kitchens, I wish it to be clearly understood 
that I do not recommend it to be used on all occasions. Soups 
made from fresh materials are undoubtedly to be preferred ; 
but it is by no means a bad resource to fly to, when the purse 
is slender. 

CARROT SOUP. 

Carefully scrape some good, carrots — then slice oiF the outside 
red portion (the yellow inside is not used for this preparation, as 
it is often hard), cut the slices into small pieces, and brown 
them with a little butter or dripping in the frying-pan. 
Observe, as a general rule, that all vegetables intended to be 
used for hrown soups, stews, and hashes, should be so treated, as 
it adds to their flavour. Stev/ them in a covered pan in cold 



* This v»'ord was significantly used some years ago, at the Old Ship, at) 
Brighton ; an habitue complaining to the landlord that from some mysteri- 
ous cause the Turtle soup gradually decreased in quality towards the end 
of tlie week, received the following candid explanation of the phenomenon: 
" As you are an old customer, sir, I'll frankly confess that when the dcr 
mand exceeds the supply, we are obliged to ' stretch.' Turtle soup with 
us has, like the year, four seasons ; the first day it is fresh and strong, that's 
its spring; the second day, we throw in a little Cayenne to increase its 
piquancy, that's its summer ; the third day we strengthen with additional 
forcemeat and catsup, that's its autumn ; the fourth day, we ' stretch ' witll 
aqua pumpo, that's its tci7iier." 



\ 



VEGETABLE SO LPS. G9 

water, or " stock," until they are quite soft, then strain, and 
heat them with two wooden spoons, through a hair sieve, and 
mix the puree or pulp (over the fire) a few minutes before you 
serve, with as much stock as you may require. Season with 
catsup and Beading or tomato sauce, a little salt, and Cayenne 
pepper. 

SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Stew gently for three hours a knuckle of veal weighing four 
or five pounds in two quarts of cold water, a little salt, a small 
carrot, two turnips, and one small onion — remember that in all 
iL'Jtite soups the vegetables should not be browned — skim care- 
fully so as to remove the scum at the commencement, and/t?^ 
at the conclusion. When the meat has simmered for about an 
hour, add the hearts of two lettuces, the ^cJlite of a head of 
celery, the heart of an endive, a small white onion (all choj)ped 
in small pieces) a few thin slices of cucumber, and as much 
small asparagus as you can grasp in one hand, sliced in pieces 
as far down as tender. Season with white pepper. The meat 
should be served with a portion of the vegetables, melted butter, 
a little chopped parsley and a few slices of boiled or toasted 
bacon, or a small piece of pickled pork. 

GREEN-PEA SOUP. 

For this also, knuckle of veal is the best foundation, as it is 
more delicate in flavour than beef, and harmonizes better with 
the vegetables, which should be the same as those used in the 
spring soup ; but with the addition of a peck of peas, carefully 
sorted after shelling, in three sizes, large, middling-sized, and 
small, and put in separate basins. The first should be put into 
the pot as soon as the meat begins to simmer and the scum has 
been removed ; the se(;ond about three quarters, and the third, 
one quarter of an hour before serving. When you put in the 
last instalment of the peas, add a little chopped green mint 
and parsley. 

OTHER SORTS OF VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

Turnip, Celery, Cabbage, Asparagus, &c. &c., are made in 
the same manner as the " Spring " and Green-Pea soups, the 
" stock" being either beef or veal; but if the French plan oi' puree, 
or pulping, be preferred, follow my direction for carrot soup. 



70 THE DINNER QUESTION. 



CHICKEN SOUP. 



Cut off the feet and legs, scald them to take off the outer 
skin and nails, and place them at the bottom of the stewpan 
with two small onions, the white of a head of celery, and half 
a dozen button mushrooms (chopped in small pieces), split the 
chicken down the back, scald the inside well, and take out every- 
thing that may have been forgotten in the trussing, then 
divide the back from the breast, and cut the first into foui* pieces 
and the latter into two ; then just cover the pieces with cold 
water : stew gently, with a close cover, for an horn* and a half ; 
if longer, the chicken will lose its colour ; skim carefully, and 
take out the feet ; just before serving, mince four oysters (with- 
out the beards) mix them with their liquor and a teaspoonful of 
flour, and throw them into the pot — a tablespoonful of rice 
stewed with the chicken will thicken the broth without flour. 
This will make a pint and a half of strong soup. The meat 
should be dished up with either melted butter and parsley, 
oyster, or onion sauce, and should be garnished with slices of 
toasted ham or bacon ; but take care the fowl be young, 
for whatever old women, or all the old cookery books may 
say in favour either of old fowls or old hares, they are both 
very sapless, unsatisfactory foundations to work upon. 

The pieces of chicken may be served up with rice and curry 
sauce, as an Indian Pillau. 

MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. 

There are many fanciful varieties in the ways of making this 
soup ; some recommend veal only, others chickens, others a 
melange of beef, veal, chickens, rabbits, and pickled pork ; 
others insist on fried ham, or bacon, being included in the 
olio ; but the native method is miquestionably the simplest and 
the best — viz., a strong white stock made from veal or kid, a 
young fowl, cut in pieces, and browned in a little butter or 
clear dripping, with the '^ four friends'" (carrots, turnips, onions, 
and celery), to which must be added the " general sahib," 
id est, two good tablespoonfuls of curry- powder, and a table- 
spoonful of rice. Eeckoning the " stock" to weigh five pounds, 
you will require three quarts of water. Every particle of the 
scum must be carefully skimmed off, and then the cuny -powder 
(mixed in a cup with a little of the cold stock or cold water) 



HAEE SOTJP. 71 

put in with the rice, and the soup should then be simmered, 
with a close lid, for two hours. 

A rabbit, or a partridge, or perhaps a pheasant, cut in pieces, 
can be advantageously used in place of the chicken.* 

Serve with rice, boiled and dried in the Indian fashion (see my 
receipt farther on). It is always the better plan to make your 
stocks the day before you require tJiem, as the fat can be 
more easily removed ; and if you have to add fowls, &c., you 
need not "rag" them by too much stewing. 

HARE SOUP. 

If you cannot get 2^young hare, you must put up with an oU 
one, although in the latter case you will in all probability, as 
in the analogous experiment of " pig shearing," often obtain 
more leather than juice; for according to Jack of Newbury ,f old 
hares are when stewed " naughte but shoe leathere ;" but as 
the toughest natures can be softened by gentle treatment, I 
will show you how to extract goodness from the most venerable 
*' furrier" ever snared by a poacher. After it is skinned and 
loell washed, take off the legs and shoulders (this will try 
your temper if puss be very ancient) and cut them into four 
pieces, the back into six, and divide the head ; next place a 
stewpan on the fire, containing fom- ounces of butter, a carrot, 
two onions, a head of celery, cut into small pieces ; fry these, 
as usual, light brown; then put in tlie pieces of hare; over which, 
when also fried brown, shake a good handful of flour, and 
moisten (for you have not yet put in any water or stock) with 
half a bottle of ;port ivine [hare bears a strong affinity to the 
celebrated sto7te soup), add a teaspoonful of salt, two bay leaves, 

* A literary friend, who is well read in gastronomy, remarking on this 
European innovation, observes: — "I have occasionally lighted upon a 
small island of partridge or pheasant floating on this aromatic Eastern 
sea, whose limpid rivulets of saccharine juices have agreeably lulled the 
ebullition of my capsicum-excited palate." 

t This " worthy" flourished in the sixteenth century, and he says in the 
" Hystorie of hys Life :" — 

"Ef any of lie men sf)oultr ratil)C, antf biingc in an oltfc I)avc, ijou 
tDiU f)abc'a uriK ; altcit, i)c is bcro ijartic "eating, srctoe fjpm ns 
longc as pou ttiiU, antr injs flcslic tntll ht naugf)tc but sf)oc Uaifjerc, 
5^c iuill, toiif) a sftccpc's t)catic, anti a little stuffe from m sartren make 
facro Qooti supping anti clicking, anu bpc tfiesc means pou fcoiil 
sabe muci) lonen in pe neare, tof)eiebuc pou migf)tc better maintaine 
i)our toife's iPrcnci^ i;ootf an^ siliie gotonc." 



72 TKEDINKEll QUESTION. 

three cloves, a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two 
quarts of white veal stock. Stir the whole on the fire until 
it boils ; then remove the pan to the side to simmer gently for 
an l>our and a half, taking care to remove the scum as soon as 
it rises, and the fat when ready to serve. Now take out the 
pieces of hare, and place them in a dish ; select the finest 
pieces of meat (if the liare be young, they will be very tender 
and palatable, but if it be old, " naughte but shoe leathere"), 
remove the bones, and set these pieces aside in a soup pot ; 
strain off the liquor, then clear the remainder of the meat from 
the bones, and pound it thoroughly with the vegetables in a 
mortar. Vv^hpn thi.=. is done, mix the " pulp" with the soup, 
boil up again for a few minutes, then strain through a fine sieve 
(gently rubbing the pulp with a wooden spoon), and pour the 
now rich gravy over the pieces of hare reserved in the soup pot ; 
season with a little more salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
cayenne, a teaspoonful of soy, another of catsup, Vnd serve hot, 
but not boiling. 

You may add forcemeat balls, made with the brains and 
liver (boiled and chopped up), and the herbs, &c., I have directed 
to be used for mock turtle. These must be put in, with a few 
button mushrooms, when you give the concluding " boil up." 

Yv^IXTEK PEA-SOUP. 

This is the natural sequence of boiled beef, mutton, or pork, 
and is, if properly made, another of our most popular English 
soups ; the subjugation of those too often unrelenting " swan- 
shot" peas being the only obstacle to success in its production ; 
but soak them half a day, stew them a week, " ill trate them 
v;ith bating till they are as spoony as male," they will not be 
mollified ; in fact, 3'our best efforts to that effect only increase 
their obduracy. But as intractable peas, as well as intractable 
men and horses, have a weak point in their natures, which, when 
skilfully attacked, can make them as ductile as Mr. Earey's 
Cruiser, I will show you how to persuade the hardest pea that 
was ever grown to obc}' \ouy wishes. 

]\Iost housekeepers know that there are tv/o kinds of dried 
peas — the grey and the yellow, the former being whole and the 
latter split. The grey being only used for puree, or pulp, to 
accompany boiled pork or bacon, I will dismiss them with a 
direction alicays to soak them at least six, and boil them ten or 



AVIXTEU PEA-SOUP. 73 

t\velve hours before beating them through the sieve. Upon the 
yellow or split peas I have more to &rj. 

First, you must endeavour to procure Y0u:-7Cr oxes ; tliis is 
as necessary for their boiling tender as v^lien tliey are green ; 
in fact, it is the secret of the inizzling toughness so often com- 
plained of You'll know them by the transparent brightness 
of their colour ; as cornchandlers have always two qualities, of 
course you will endeavour to buy the best ; still you may light 
on patriarchs, or a bad sort. In either case, there is no alter- 
native but to grind or pound them before you put them in the 
pot, and when they have been stewed a very long while, pulp 
them through a sieve. 

The young ones req}iire no soaking, as they are naturally 
tender."' 

To proceed with my receipt. Having saved the liquor in 
which you have boiled a piece of meat, take off the fat, and put 
it in a pot with as much water as may be required to take off 
the " saltness" and make up the quantity of your soup (which 
for two days' consumption of six persons should be about four 
quarts) ; then add a pound of shin of beef, a pound of Fork 
rinds (which can be bought at fivepence a pound at an}- pork- 
shop) ; the " four friends " (I will in future use the term when 
I have to speak collectively of carrots, turnips, onions, and 
celery), tvro parsnips (all brov»med in the usual manner), a little 
«« /^chopped parsley, and two dozen black peppercorns. When 
the pot boils, remove the scum, and put two quarts of carefully 
picked and rubbed split peas. Boil gently for three hours ; 
skim off the fat and strain with a fine sieve, beating the vege- 
tables through with a wooden spoon. 

The pork rinds must be removed, but the pieces of meat 

* The following apposite remarks on " pea taming," by J. H. P., in tlic 
Cottarje Gardener, are worthy of quoting : — " We frequently hear our 
cottage friends complain of peas being ' bad boilers,' and taking many 
hours stewing before they break, and sometimes not doing so at all. Isov/, 
under the following treatment, peas that vrould take twelve hours to break 
them in the usual way, may be broken in less than one : — Pick them and 
clean them, if necessary, by rubbing them in a dnj clotli ; have a vessel 
containing a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, boiling very hard, 
strew the peas into it from the liand, a few at a time, so as not in the 
least to check the boiling of the water, and when boiled nearly dry add 
cold water, and after boiling a fev>- minutes they will break. If the water 
be very hard, a bit of washing soda may be put in." 

This process may answer with middle-aged peas, but I have always 
found the old ones inexorable to everything but the mill and the mortar. 



74 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

should be put back into the pot with the liquor and the pulp ; 
boil up for a minute or two, and serve with some dried mint, 
and toasted bread cut in small pieces. 

If the saved liquor should be from fresh meat, you must 
have three pounds of beef, and throw in a little salt. 

rEAS-PUDDING. 

I will give instructions for this now, in order that my 
remarks on the treatment of old and bad peas may be remeoi- 
bered. If you are at all doubtful of the age or quality of your 
peas, soak them overnight in cold water ; but if you know 
them to be young and a good sort, they will not require it. 
Tie them in a clean cloth, leavmg room for them to swell, and 
put them into the pot with the joint you are boiling ; but as a 
quart pudding will take but three hours' cooking, you must be 
guided in your time for putting it in by the weight of the meat. 
Many boil the pudding in a separate pot lest the brine, if it be 
corned beef or pork, should harden the peas ; but by so doing 
they not only lose the flavour of the meat, but the vegetable 
strength of the soup is diminished. I have always found it 
best to boil them together. 

Ten minutes before dishing, take up the pudding, turn it out 
of the cloth into a large basin, and beat it up well with a wooden 
spoon ; season with a little pepper and salt, an ounce of butter, 
and the yolk of a well-beaten e^^ ; then turn it into a dish, and 
set it in the oven or before the tire to keep it hot. 

If you should find, when you turn the pudding into the 
basin, that the peas are refractory, "bate them into good 
timper" with your wooden spoon (separating the ringleaders 
from the others, and consigning them to do penance in the 
"pot au feu') ; then flour the cloth well, put the pudding into 
it again, tie it up as tight as possihle, and boil it another hour. 

Doctor Kitchener says, " To increase the bulk and diminish 
the expense of this pudding, the economical housekeeper who 
has a large family to feed may add, when it is being beaten up, 
two pounds of potatoes that have been boiled and well mashed. 
To many this mixture is more agreeable than peas-pudding 
alone." 

GIBLET SOUP. 

This is a very rich soup, and its use is more general than it 



i 



GTBLET SOUP. 75 

is aclcnoioledged to he, particularly in hotels and restaurants, 
figuring under the guise of Mock-turtle, Ox-tail, Bisque, Colbert, 
Bouillabaisse, Eaviolis, &c. &c. Nevertheless, although its 
foundation be uninviting to the sight (why do poulterers 
persist in conspicuously exhibiting these " remains " huddled 
together in their shops ?), there is no doubt of its possessing 
great nutriment, and (for those who like it) a peculiar flavour. 

To make three quarts of soup will reqaire four " sets" of 
giblets, of any kind of poultry (those of the goose are princi- 
pally used, and they must be quite fresh), two dozen chicken's 
feet (which can be bought at the poulterer's for threepence), two 
pounds of shin of beef scored, '' the four friends" (browned as 
usual), three cloves, a blade of mace, two dozen black pepper- 
corns, a bunch of sweet herbs, composed of a sprig of lemon 
thyme, winter savory, and marjoram, tico sprigs of parsley, 
two or three leaves of green sage, and two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
Stew for four hours, skim, strain, and serve in a hot tureen, 
with a teaspoonful of soy, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
cayenne. 

Now prepare the giblets thus : pick and clean the heads, 
Avings, and gizzards (with goose and duck giblets you will have 
the liver, which, when the gall is carefully removed, you must 
chop up in pieces of about an inch square), then scald and shin 
the feet, chop the bills oiF close to the heads, cutting the latter 
in two, cut the gizzards into four, six, or eight pieces, according 
to their size, and the wings and necks into four pieces each. 
Wash the whole thoroughly in two or three waters, and put 
them on the fire with just sufficient water to cover them. 

Considering it to be perfectly understood that you will 
always remove the scum and the fat at the frojper times, I shall 
in future cease to repeat this caution, leaving you to " walk 
alone" in the strict observance of this important rule. 

When the soup has stewed half the proper time required, add 
as much cold water, or stock, as may be needed to make up 
your quantity. Eemember, by the way, that any cold fluid put 
into the hot broth always causes fresh scum to rise ; so be on 
the alert to deal with it. 

When you have strained ofi* to serve, take the pieces of gizzard 
and liver from the sieve, and put them in the tureen with the 
soup. A wine-glassful of sherry will improve the flavour ; and 
a few forcemeat balls, made as for mock tui'tle, may be added. 



76 TILE i)l^':NLi^ ouestiox. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. Il 

Three tails (which must he jointed by the butcher) will pro- 
duce, by stewing in three quarts of cold water for four hours, 
live pints of strong soup, no more meat being required, but you 
may advantageously add a pound of bullock's liver, cut into 
three thick slices, fried in a little butter or di'ipping, with "the 
four friends :" but as the tails are always \Qxy fat, it is essential 
that this soup be made the da}' before it is required, for in 
spite of the greatest care in skimming, it v.'ill be too rich. 

The vegetables should be the same in kind and quantity as 
for giblet-soup ; but in place of the bunch of sweet herbs put in 
a couple of bay-leaves. 

After straining, the meat should be taken from the bones, 
and put aside until the soup is ready for serving, when it should 
be put in the tureen, together with two glasses of port wine and 
tv.^o teaspoonfuls of soy. Do not serve the liver ; and take 
care that the tails be not stewed to rags. The mock turtle 
forcemeat and egg-balls may also be added to improve the 
flavour. 

I have purposely omitted re-stating the mode of treatment, 
as I hope by this time you will be quite perfect in the practice 
of all that relates to browning, skimming, mixing, thickening, 
straining, and serving : take my wintee vegetable soup as 
your general guide, and you cannot greatly err. 

GAME SOUPS 

Are nothing more than pheasants, partridges,' grouse, quails, 
snipes, woodcocks, &c. &c., cut into small pieces, added either to 
brown or white stock ; the onl}^ thing to be attended to is, that 
when the pieces of the birds are stewed tender, they should be 
taken out wdiile you strain off the liquor ; then, as I have 
directed in the receipt for " hare- soup," select the best pieces to 
t^erve in the soup, and pound the inferior ones with the bones 
into pulp, which you must mix with the vegetables, and beat 
through the sieve with a wooden spoon. A glass of either port, 
sherry, or claret is necessary ^^ covjlrm the flavour. 

FISH SOUPS 

Have all a strong family resemblance, and there is one general 
instruction applicable to all varieties, viz., to cut your fish, what- 



FISH SOUP.^. / / 

ever it may be, into small pieces, and brown them with the sliced 
vegetables, as in meat soups ; but as in some instances a special 
important mode of treatment is indispensable, I will here point 
out the exceptions to the above simple general rule. 

FISH SOUP STOCK 

Must, however, be first considered, for it is supposed that you do 
not use any meat for your foundation, therefore clean and cut in 
pieces a pound of skate, four or five flounders, or any cheap 
fresh fish you can procure, brown the pieces in the pan with a 
sliced onion, a head of celery, a sprig or two of parsley, a couple 
of dozen of black peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Simmer in a quart of water with a close lid for one hour, and 
put the broth to cool. You already knov/ how to deal with the 
fat and sediment of cold broths and gravies, so here also I leave 
you alone. The French cuisine has a great variety both of 
•'shell" and '"scale" fish soups, but as I do not in this part of 
my work purpose to give expensive or difficult receipts, I shall 
confine my examples to the treatment of two or three of the 
most popular kinds. 

WHITE EEL sour. 

Skin, and cut off the heads and tails of three or four pounds 
of eels, put them in a stewpan with a quart of cold water, a 
small teaspoonful of salt, a dozen icJiite peppercorns, a blade of 
mace, a good-sized onion (whole), the beards of a dozen oysters 
cut in pieces, a little chopped lemon peel, a parsnip cut in four 
pieces, the heart of a ichite head of celery, six button mush- 
rooms, and half a dozen chickens' feet ; stew for an hour ; when 
the soup begins to simmer, strain— then put in the bodies of 
the eels cut in pieces tliree inches long, let them stew half an 
hour, when they should be taken out and kept hot to be stewed 
after the soup, either with loJiite sauce (which I will presently 
tell you how to make) or brown stock, half a dozen chopped 
oysters, and a glass of port wine, if with brown gravy, and 
sherry vv'ith white ; next take off the oil from the soup (there 
will be a large quantity of it), then put a tablespoonful of the 
essence of anchovies, a glass of Madeira, sherr}^ or port, twenty 
drops of garlic vinegar, and the remaining six oysters (cut in 
small pieces), into the tureen, to which add the soup. You 



78 THE DIXiN'EE QUESTIO^'. 

may also throw in, when you give the concluding boil up after 
straining, a few small 

FISH rOKCEMEAT BALLS, 

which are made as follows : — a tablespoonful of fine bread- 
crumbs, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped suet, another of parsley, 
half a teaspoonful of dried marjoram, a small piece of lemon 
peel, a tablespoonful of picked shrimps, a small piece of cod 
liver (boiled), three oysters, the yolk of an egg (boiled hard), all 
finely chopped. Season with cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, and 
mix with a beaten egg. Eoll the balls to the size of a small 
walnut, with a little flour, and " set " them in the oven for ten 
minutes before you put them in the soup. 

N.B. This forcemeat w^U serve for all kinds of fish soups. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Procure one fine hen lobster, take out all the meat, break up 
the shell, and put it (the shell) with the small claws (braised) 
and the heads and shells of a pint of shrimps, in a stewpan, 
with just water enough to cover them. Stew half an hour, 
strain and set the liquor aside — to be used by-and-by. 

Lightly brown two small onions, half a carrot, and a turnip 
cut in slices, a blade of mace, a dozen black or white pepper- 
corns, two cloves, two bay-leaves, a sprig of parsley, another of 
marjoram, and two strips of celery tied together — put them in 
a stewpan with six chickens' feet (scaled and skinned as I have 
before directed), and a quart of fresh veal or fish stock. Stew 
an hour and a half more ; meanwhile prepare your lobster. 
The meat of the tail and claws must be cut in pieces the size 
of dice, and then put them aside for a time. Take out all the 
cream and meat of the head, and the coral ; pound them well 
in a mortar with a pint of picked shrimps. Season wath cay- 
enne and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with a few drops of 
garlic vinegar, and mix the liquor you have set aside from the 
shells with the pounded fish. When ready to serve, put a 
tablespoonful of essence of anchovy in the tureen ; skim and 
strain the soup, and mix with it the small pieces of the lobster 
you have reserved, and also the pounded ingredients, boil up, 
and pour the soup into the tureen, adding, as in mock-tui-tle, 
the yolk of six eggs boiled hard, and a few fish forcemeat balls, 



BEEF-TEA AND MUTTON BEOTII. 79 

the receipt for making wliicli I have given above with the white 
eel soup. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Stew two dozen chickens' feet in a quart of water two hours, 
with a middling-sized onion and half a parsnip, sliced, and very 
lightly browned, an anchovy, a blade of mace, two cloves, two 
dozen peppercorns, the rind of half a lemon, a dozen button 
mushrooms, and the beards of four dozen oysters ; strain, take 
off the fat, and put the oysters in the stewpan with the liquor, 
leaving out a little to mix with two tablespoonfuls of flour for 
the thickening. Simmer the oysters at most six or seven 
minutes (if longer, they will become leathery). Put a glass of 
sherry in the tureen, the juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of 
essence of ancho^y, fifteen drops of garlic vinegar, the same of 
tarragon vinegar, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne. 
Serve with the "fish forcemeat balls." The cream of a crab, 
mixed with the hard part of a dozen of the oysters, pounded in 
a mortar, and put in the soup a minute or two before the con- 
cluding boil up, will greatly add to its richness and flavour. ' 

The above examples being quite suflicient for the production 
of every special kind of fish soup, I will pass on to the meat 
soups remaining to be treated on, after observing that the Fish 
Soup Stock may be used, in place of the fresh materials, or to 
increase strength and flavour. 

BEEF-TEA. 

This is the simplest of all soups, being but a pound or two 
of shin of beef cut in small pieces, and gently stewed, with a 
little salt, in a pint of cold water to each pound of meat, with- 
out either vegetables or spice, for three hours. It is generally 
served in a basin, with toasted bread. 

PLAIN MUTTON BROTH, 

Is my concluding example of English soups ; and although it 
is almost as simple as " beef-tea," it requires a good deal of 
attention in its preparation. To preserve the sweet "nutty" 
flavour of the meat so grateful to the palate of the invalid is 
the first consideration ; the next should be the strength of the 
potage ; and lastly, the happy amalgamation of the vegetable 
flavour. 



80 TILE DINXEH QUESTION. 

I had once an opportunity of proving the virtues of this 
pure]}- English j^anacea. Calling on a sick friend, who, in 
addition to very limited resources, had a " fine lady" wife, 
totally ignorant of everything relating to household comfort, 
I found him sadly prostrated in strength and spirits, his appe- 
tite entirely gone, so that he quite loathed animal food ; his 
doctor had therefore, in the ordinary off-hand, matter-of-course 
manner of a fashionable physician, prescribed soup. 

To mahe the soup was never for an instant thought of, so 
the lodging-house servant was despatched to a neighbouring 
pastry-cook's for a basin of mock turtle. I shall never forget 
the poor invalid's shudder and look of disgust when it was 
placed before him — the aroma of the herbs and spices, the 
colour of the Stygian lake of paste, and above all, the nauseating 
appearance of the lumps of variegated fat, completel}'' over- 
powered him. " Take it away," he said, averting his head ; 
" it vcould kill me to eat it." My knovvdedge of domestic 
cookery enabled me in this instance to do a good service. I 
w^ent out and bought a *' chump" of mutton and a few vege- 
tables, and in an hour and a half I made him a basin of mutton 
broth, with a chop in it, which he could and did manage to eat 
both with relish and appetite. 

The following I have found to be a ver}^ satisfactory method 
of producing 

GOOD FAMILY MUTTON BROTH. 

Half a dozen shanks of mutton, cleanly scraped and washed, 
but not broken (for the marrow which Vv-ould in that case all 
boil out, would make the broth too rank), should be laid at the 
bottom of the pot, two middling-sized carrots, " halved and 
quartered," a middling-sized uncut onion, one quart of cold 
water, a small teaspoonful of salt. Stew them gently two hours 
and a half: then put in tivo quarts of cold water, and three 
pounds of the middle of the neck cut in three pieces, but not 
chopped, for the small bits of bone will adhere to the meat and 
be dangerous to the teeth ; and a " chump " of the loin of 
mutton weighing two pounds, with another spoonful of salt 
(remember here the first point on which you are " walking 
alone") ; add six turnips "halved and quartered," half a head of 
white celery cut in small pieces. Cover closely, and simmer 
two hours more ; then take out the meat and half of the 



MUTTOy 13E0T1I. 81 

vegetables and place them on a hot dish, the meat in the 
centre and the vegetables round it. 

Having previously mixed in a cup two teaspoonfuls of flour, 
a quarter of a pint of water, and an ounce of butter, put the 
paste into a small saucepan and stir it until it boils ; then take 
off the saucepan and throw into it a teaspoonful of chopped 
capers, and another of their vinegar ; mix these well and pour 
part over the meat, reserving the remainder to serve in a sauce 
boat. Kemember, the capers must not be mixed with the butter 
over thejire, or they will lose their flavour and the sauce Avill 
be " curdled." 

The remainder of the vegetables should be " pulped" through 
a fine sieve, when you strain ofl" the liquor. You knovv^ when 
to take off the fat- 
After the strained liquor has boiled up, throw in a table- 
epoonful of chopped parsley, and serve the broth in a hot 
tureen. 

For invalids you may (according to their taste and strength 
of stomach) make the broth without vegetables, or you may use 
but half the quantity. Should appetite for solids be returning, 
a nice evenly-cut chop from the best part of the neck or loin, 
carefully divested of the fat, and stevv^ed just long enough to be 
vety teiider, should be served in the basin with the broth. 
Small pieces of toasted bread should also be sent up in a plate 
or round the saucer of the basin. 

With this (excepting beef-tea), the simplest of our English 
decoctions, I conclude my examples of soups. • I might have 
much extended the list, but as I wish each division of this 
work to form the solid basis on which the " plain cook" can 
eventually become thoroughly proficient, I have confined myself 
to essentials. Those who can produce the foundation soups I 
have enum-erated, will find it easy to raise a superstructure of 
almost endless variety thereon, and may on " holiday" occa- 
sions successfully attempt to vie with the elaborate productions 
of the French cuisine. 

It may be just hinted that the " 2^ot au feu" or black pot, 
although not adverted to in the instructions given for the foun- 
dations of my stocks, still " holds its place in my dear love ;" 
it can he used to add to or even to supply the fresh material 
in every one of my receipts ; therefore, never cease to cherish 
it, and carefully endeavour to " increase its store." 

F 



82 THE DIKXER QUESTIOIC. 

There is another important point in soup-making I wist 
particularly to impress upon the " culinary mind " — viz., that 
'as there is alwa^'s much fat to be removed from the surface, 
the careful housewife should, if it be in her power, make all 
her soups overnight, as the fat and other impurities can, when 
cold, be so much more easily and completely separated from the 
soup. 

I have said nothing on barley, rice, sago, tapioca, and other 
seed broths, as you will know they are only flavourings for 
stock soups ; and their preparation consisting merely of washing 
and picking, it would be Avasting space to go into minute 
details. 

By way of conclusion to this subject, the following extract 
from La Cuisine Francaise, by IMonsieur A. Gogue, head 
cook to the Comte du Cayla, Lord Melville, &c. &c., an artiste 
of rising reputation, may perhaps not be considered inappro- 
priate, as it shows, particularly to dinner-givers, the very im- 
portant position good soup should hold in the bill of fare. 

It has often been maintained that soups are barbarous destroyers of out 
alimentary enjoyments ; that soup is but the preface to the dinner, and- 
tliat a good work does not need a preface ; but these, and many similar 
depreciatory phrases, prove absolutely nothing, being merely so manx. 
individual opinions, frequently, indeed, nothing but random shots fired hj 
a wit in wanton sport to raise a laugh at convivial moments. '' 

The most celebrated cooks and epicures have always been hearty^ 
advocates of the just claims of soup against the objections of its detractora.t 
" Soups," says Antoniu Careme, " are, and ahjays will be, the provocative- 
agents of a good dinner." 

Soup (remarks also Grimod de la Reynicrc) is Avhat a portico is to ?.\\ 
ediGcc, and it is not only the first object of attraction, but it ought to ba 
v/ell combined, with a view to give a true foretaste of the temple itself,, 
just as tlie overture of an opera shadows forth the subject of the work." 
Soup, moreover, should be regarded as a preliminary test of tlie artistic- 
knowledge and talent of the cook. For ray own part, I will confine; 
myself to saying, plainly but earnestly, that a good soup is a most excel-" 
lent thing, always much relished by guests, and in a well-ordered bill of . 
fare it ought to hold an important place, from its just claims to be con*- 
sidered as an object of particular attention. ^ 

A bad soup, v.hich, however indiflerent it may be, we are often out o]fj 
politeness obliged to swallow, will so disturb our equanimity as to dispose 
us to find fault with every dish subsequently served up, and thus we dine * 
badly ov.-jng to a foregone conclusion. Let me fully urge upon you whoi^ 
are mistresses of e.^tablishn;ents and good housev/ives, carefully to attend 
to this opening act of your dinner; for just as an author is naturally 
anxious that the coinmencement of his work should conciliate the minds 
of his readers, so you should look to your scup to impart good-humour to 
the stomachs of your guests. 



GEAVIES AND SAUCES. 83 

There is no doubt that a failure in your potage when you 
give a dinner, jeopardizes the success of the whole of the feast, 
particularly if it be burnt, or too highly seasoned, in both of 
which cases the palate can scarcely' recover its serenity until the 
appearance of the second course, the flavour of the fish and of 
the delicate entrees being almost undistinguishable. If, there- 
fore, you do not wish your guests to be in the position of the 
man Avho, swallowing his dinner in a passion, was unconscious 
whether he Avas eating boiled cabbage or stewed umbrellas, 
follow Monsieur Gogue's advice, and spare no pains in making 
your soups as perfect as possible. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 

" England has a hundred religions, but only one sauce," said 
Talleyrand ; and in the Life of that renowned wit, Sydney 
Smith, it is stated, that on hearing a lady exclaim, " No gravy, 
if you please," he turned to her and proposed to swear eternal 
friendship on the instant, saying that he had been looking all 
his life for a person who, on principle, rejected grav3^ 

These dicta are emphatic rebukes on the enormities we have 
so long been content to put up with under both heads, melted 
hutter being an utter abomination to the gourmand Prince, 
and hot tcater and catsup the " favourite aversion" of the 
facetious divine ; and although many meritorious efforts have 
been made to eradicate these national reproaches from the 
kitchens of our wealthy dinner-griyer^, the old-established paste 
and aqueous acid are still to be found in all their pristine 
repulsiveness occupying a post of honour at our family tables, 
arid fully justifying the severest animadversions that can be 
passed upon them. 

It is by no means necessary that *' melted butter" should be 
made by beating up a large quantity of butter with cream and 
eggs, till it becomes a custard ; neither should gravy for roast 
meat be the essence of mock turtle, or a mixture of the juices 
of half a ham and a dozen pheasants and partridges, stewed 
down to a teacupful of "Espagnole" or " Eechamel." But 
they should, on the contrary, both be plain, wholesome, 
palatable, easily to be produced, and inexpensive adjuncts, which 
neither sicken us with their mawkish insipidity nor destroy the 
flavour of the natural juices of the diflerent meats, either by a 
f2 



8l! THE DINNER QUESTION. 

profusion of spices, or a too liberal infasiou of that mysterious 
product waggishly called by the London dairymen the " cow tvith 
the iron tail." 

As all gravies are founded on meat, and all sauces 
on butter,^ the natural process is to produce the former by 
stewing, and the latter by melting ; but civilization has thrown 
in a difficulty. We are not, like the savages of New Zealand, 
contented with "boiled missionary" au naturel ; our edu- 
cated palates have been taught to require a gravy or a sauce fit 
to rival in succulency and piquancy the famous " Sauce Kobert," 
which, according to L' Almanack des Gourma^ids, when well 
composed, would make one eat one's grandfather or an elephant. 

It is thoroughly understood nowadays that every gravy or 
sauce should be skilfully adapted in flavour to the peculiar 
aliment whose palatableness it is intended to enhance : but 
ignorant and idle housewives prefer the beaten track to the 
study of principles, and tenaciously cling to the " good old ways" 
of their grandmothers, or are content with the old-fashioned 
cookery-books, which direct them to 

" Take a piece of butter as big as a walnut or your thumb, and two or 
three tablespoonfuls of flour ;" or " Pour from the teakettle over the joint 
M'hen you dish a goodish quantity (according to the number to partake 
of it) of boiling water, and a large teacupful of flavouring made of catsup, 
soy, garlic, vinegar, anchovy sauce, and cayenne." 

In the English kitchen we trust, and I think wisely, more to 
the natural flavour of our meat than to the foreign juices and 
condiments which are essential to la cuisine Fran^aise. 

Can a " Gigot braise" or " a la Provengale' ever be eaten 
with the same gusto as a leg of '*' Southdown" or Welsh mutton, 
hung a fortnight, and served with a gravy formed solely from its 
natural juice ? What " Filet de Boeuf a la Napoliiaine," or 
" a la Sauce Poivrade" or a la any tiling, was ever half so 
toothsome as a plain Old English Sir-loin with a Yorkshire 
pudding under it ? What English palate has ever preferred 
" Ferdrix aux Choux" or " a VFstoiifade," or " Foisans a la 
Dauphinoise," or "« laFlnancitre" to our plainly dressed birds, 
with bread sauce and simple beef gravy for their aides-de-camp 1 

* Cream cannot be considered a foundation, as it is always joined either 
to meat stock, as in the instances of " Bechamel," &c. &c., or to strong [ 
flavouring essences, such as vanille, pine apples, &c. ; butter and beaten-up 
eggs are also very general adjuncts to sweet white sauces. 



GEAYT FOR POITLTRT A^^D GAME. 85 

The flavour of fish and vegetables is also too often destroyed 
in French cookery by the craving for rich sauces and gravies. 
Even the famous " Sole a la Normande'^ and " Saumon a la 
Maintenon," although they may be relished as an occasional 
hojine houche, cannot successfully cope with our plain frying 
and boiling, when carefully done. Can Phillippe or Les Trois 
Freres Provencaux find anything in their " repertoire" of 
Entrees de Poisson, to match our leviathan Dover turbots and 
Severn salmon, boiled and served whole, with lobster sauce for 
ejoicures, and plain melted butter for true fish eaters ? 

What sauce can improve a potato ? Is spinach beaten up 
with eggs, cream, and vinegar, equal to the crisp leaves plainly 
boiled ? 

Does a fresh cauliflower require "Gratiii' and Sauce d la 
Souhise ? And, to conclude these instances of culinary sophis- 
tication, do green peas need boiling with sugar, or stewing 
a la Frangaise, with onions and lettuces, combined with the 
yolks of eggs and ''Beitrre noir?" 

It is clear, then, that in English cookery the fewer gravies 
and sauces we employ the better ; but it is also clear that these 
few should be composed with skill, and only taste of the mate- 
rials from which they taJce their name. 

For instance, Anchovy should not predominate in lobster, nor 
Yanille and mushrooms in oyster sauce. Carefully attend, 
therefore, both to the quantity and quality of the different in- 
gredients I will set before you. I will commence with 

PLAIN GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY AND GAME. 

About half an hour before you put down j^our fowl, cut off 
the feet and neck (the lower part of the legs, I never could un- 
derstand why, unless it be to make the bird look ugly and give 
additional trouble to the carver, are always retained in the 
trussing), scald them w^ell, take off the skin and the feathers, 
and put them into a small stewpan with half a pint of cold 
water, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a dozen black peppercorns, 
a small shalot (cut in half) three whole button mushrooms, a 
" nose " or crusty corner of a loaf, or an end of a French roll 
toasted very hroicn, but not burnt (for colouring), and half a 
pound of scored shin of beef. 

When the fowl is done remove the fat from the gravy in the 



86 THE DI^'^-Ell question?-. 

dripping-pan, and mix it with the " made' gi'avy (of course 
properly skimmed and strained), then pour a small quantity 
into the dish (you know why), and serve the remainder in a 
sauce-boat. This is the simple method of supplying the want 
of natural gravy icithout destroying the flavour of the bird; 
but if you would make a rich or 

A FLAVOURING GI14YY, 

in addition to the materials I have already enumerated, brown 
a slice of lean ttncooked ham (about two ounces), with half a 
turnip, half a carrot, and a quarter of a head of white celery, cut 
in thin slices ; a sprig of whiter savory, another of parsley, 
three thin slices of chopped lemon-peel, and a dozen berries of 
allspice ; skim and strain as usual. If you wish your gravy to 
be thick, mix a little flour — you know how. 

For game you may add, when you serve, a tablespoonful of 
port, claret, or sherry, and a little cayenne. 

Either of these gravies may be used for roast meat, and if 
you are not providing for company, the pot au feu, with a 
little attention to flavouring, will save you the expense and 
trouble of a special concoction. 

SAUCE FOR WILD DUCKS. 



i 



]\rix a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, two 
teaspoonsful of lemon juice, the same of pounded sugar, and the 
same of catsup, a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and three 
table-spoonsful of Port wine. — Warm in a small saucepan, and 
pour over the bird, which should be previously sliced, so that 
the sauce may mix with its own gravy. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE FOR GRAVIES, STEWS, HASHES, 
MINCES, &c. &c. 

Pound a couple of shalots, a teaspoonful of capers, and put 
them into a stewpan with a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a 
teaspoonful of mustard, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
cayenne. 

When the shalots and capers are dissolved, add as much of 
the Espagnole sauce (for which I have given instructions at 
page 56) as you may require for your flavouring, mixing well 
over the fire. 



WHITE SAUCE. 87 

From the above receipts you may easily form evciy variety 
of the " brown" gravies, which are generally given in cookery 
books ; the " whito" kinds require a different treatment. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

This in the French kitchen is called "Veloute," taking its 
name from its " velvety appearance;" and as it is a very delicate 
" holiday" sauce, the utmost care and skill must be bestowed on 
its preparation. 

Much of its sightliness, smoothness, and artistic finish (a very 
important consideration with most French " chefs ") depending 
on the "Soux" or thickening, that is the first point to which 
you must direct your labours : therefore, put a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter into a stewpan over a slow fire, and when 
it is melted, put in by degrees, and mix with a wooden spoon, 
five tablespoonfuls of flour : then moisten, also by degrees, with. 
a teacupful of cold clear stock, mixing and stirring and lifting^' 
until your thickening becomes a pale sherry- coloured paste of 
moderate consistency, foi if it be either too thin or too thick, 
or too deep in colour, it will not do you credit ; put it aside to 
cool while you prepare your gravy, which should be made as 
follows : 

If you have any uncooked trimmings of veal or poultry, put 
them into the stewpan with two quarts of cold water, or, if you 
have it, white stock ; a thick slice weighing about a quarter of 
a pound of lean uncooked ham, a pound of veal cutlet, and if 
possible the legs of a fowl or rabbit cut in pieces ; a small 
"carrot, a parsnip, three button onions, half a head of white 
celery, a small turnip, three clear button mushrooms, half a 
shalot, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and another of green parsley 
sliced and chopped. 

N.B, — A preparatory light browning with a quarter of a 
pound of butter, although it may slightly heighten the colour, 
^'will greatly add to the flavour. I therefore leave it to your 
^ taste to adopt or omit it. 

Simmer, with a close lid, for two liours ; then strain off tho 
gravy and replace it in the pan. Now is the moment to display 

i * This is a French process to bring the sauce to its proper consistency 

and colour, and make it perferAly smoot'u ; it is eftcctcd by taUiiig out 
spoonfuls and letting them fall again from a slight elevation into the 
centre of the pan . 



88 THE DIKXEE QUESTIOjS'. 

your " artistic finish." Vv'^hile the gravy is gently simmering, 
with your wooden spoon put in a small quantity of the thick- 
ening, and stir it round until it is well mixed with the gravy, 
then put in a little more, and more, and "Z//i(" until your sauce 
arrives at its culminating point of consistency and colour ; then 
take it off, coax it through a very fine sieve, and set it aside in 
an uncovered hasin to get cold, and be m readiness to use as the 

FOUNDATIOX OF ALL WHITE GEAVY SAUCES, the first OU the 

list being the famous 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Understand, however, before I give the receipt for it, that it 
is not put forward as belonging to plain English cookery, but 
as a " holiday" effort, should means and occasion justify its use. 
You have merely to put into a stewpan a pint of cream, or in 
its default the same quantity of good milk ; as soon as it begins 
to simmer add to it as much of the " Veloute" you have in store 
as the quantity of Bechamel you wish to make will require. 
Stir until well mixed and about as thick as plain cream ; then 
strain through a tammy (a worsted cloth made expressly for 
straining sauces), and it is ready to serve. 

This, with the exception of 

DUTCH SAUCE, 

which is another " holiday" variety of great merit, is the last 
example I will give here of foreign sauces. 

Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert- 
spoonful of fl;our, the yolks of two beaten-up eggs, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground and sifted 
black pepper, a " grate" of nutmeg, a wine-glassfuU of water, 
and the juice of a lemon; mix well and simmier over a slow fire, 
stirring and "lifting" continually with a wooden spoon. Let it 
be tolerably thick, and when j^ou put it into the sauceboat add 
a few small pieces of cold fresh butter, which will give your sauce, 
according to the highest authority, a more exquisite finish. 

This is a very popular composition on the Continent, par- 
ticularly for fish; but it is used like the "Bechamel" for 
fricassees, boiled poultry, &c. &c. 

The preceding full and particular instructions for the pre- 
paration of these important delicate sauces have been introduced 



MELTED ETJTTEE. 8^ 

in order tliat those who complain that no cheap EnglisJi 
coohery-hook is to he found containing a practical method for 
mal'ing them, may take advantage of my experience. 

" Once more on English ground," I will proceed to show you 
how properly to mate our foundation sauce. 

PLAIX MELTED EUTTER. 

The chief defect in its ordinary composition is insufficiency of 
the very article from which it takes its name ; in fact the flour 
and water, to use a familiar expression, " drown the miller," 
the flavour of the " bit of butter " being entirely destroyed by 
the lumpy, wishy-washy paste with which it is incorporated. 
As the perfect production of this most useful sauce is of great 
importance, I will give du-ections for it under three heads ; the 
first under the title of 

BUTTER SAUCE A LA TICKLETOOTH, 

Put four ounces of fresh butter, cut in small pieces, into a 
saucepan ; when they are melted, shake in gradually with 
the left hand a tablespoonful and a half of best flour, stirring all 
the time with a wooden spoon ; then add a teacupful and a half 
of cold water, put in by spoonsful with the left hand, while you 
continue stirring the butter with the wooden spoon with the 
right (all one way) until it boils ; then take the pan off the fire, 
and stir and " lift" until your sauce be as thick as cream and a 
full straio colour. 

N.B. — If the quality of the flour (and there is often a great 
difference) should not enable you to obtain the proper thickness, 
put in a little more. You will find by properly stirring and 
*' lifting" that your sauce will be beautifully smooth and sightly. 
If the sauce should chance to oil, put in a small piece of cold 
butter and a teaspoonful of cold water, stir well and " lift " (off 
the fire) and all Avill turn out right. 

This I have by long experience proved to be the best method 
of making plain melted butter : it will serve for the stock of 
all butter sauces. The next example is 

rr.EXCH MELTED BUTTEE. 

This is formed with four ounces of butter cut in pieces and 
melted in the pan, to which is added by little and little, stir- 



90 THE DIN^'EE QTJESTIO:S-. 

ring: ^11 tiie while, the yolks of two eggs well beaten or whipped 
up with three tablespoonsial of good milk, and a " grate " of 
nutmeg — -just as the sauce begins to simmer take the pan off 
the fire, and stir and lift. ; 

This is a good foundation for sweet sauces, although it is 
used on the Continent as a leading feature in many Bechamel 
varieties. 

AlirtOWIlOOT BUTTER SAUCE. 

Wis. well a tablespoonful of arrowroot in a quarter of a pint 
of milk, with a little grating of nutmeg, as well as of dried 
lemon-peel, then mix them in the pan with four ounces of 
butter, in precisely the same manner as the Tickletooth and 
Trench melted butter. 

All the above may be flavoured according to fancy, with 
wine, vanille, pine apple, &c., and finished wdth a few small 
pieces of cold butter when in the sauce-boat. 

I have been the more particular in my instructions for the 
production of this very common, but too often very ill used 
parent of so large a family of sauces, all of which more or less 
depend for their success or failure, on its being properly pre- 
pared ; for if the " melted butter " be oily or ropy, or econo- 
mically thinned with too much water and flour, our fish, white 
meats, vegetables, and pies and puddings, lose rather than gain 
flavour when it is made use of. 

How often has it happened when poor I^Ir. Bartholomew Lane, 
the stock-broker, has sent home a line turbot and lobster from 
Billingsgate, with a note to his onore than " better half" 
timidly requesting that they may be dressed with " the birds," 
and a cabinet pudding, at seven, for a friend he would bring 
with him, that he has " looked daggers " at the brick-dust 
coloured, thin, lumpy, essence of anchovy abomination, on which 
floated in pale fragments the " pride of the market," whicli 
cost him, he would be sorry to confess to ]\Irs. L. how muc/i : 
the lobster, which, if it had been converted into proper sauce, 
he hoped his friend Jawkins (his com.panion at the Trafalgar, at 
Greenwich, on " hashed " mutton days) would have smacked 
his lips at, and said, " capital, capital, worthy the turbot ; so 
creamy, so piquante, yet withal so ' lohstoy.' " " No butter, 
thank you,'' when it is proirered to flavour the cauliflower, and 



LOBSTER SArCE. 91 

when bread-sauce to the birds, and wine-paste to the pudding, 
are also eschewed by " that dainty Javvkins," Avho is supposed, 
from " dining so often with Mr, Lane at Greenwich and at tlie 
French houses," to like nothing plain and wholesome, complete 
the annoyances of the poor Amphitryon, who inwardly deter- 
mines that unless Mrs. L. will look to the kitchen herself, 
or find a cook who will not disgrace him, he'll never bring a 
friend home again. 

Look, therefore, good housewives, to your *' melted butter." 
Having shown you how to build a good foundation, I will 
now point out the best methods of dealing with a few of the 
most simple and useful fish and sweet sauces. 
The first ou the list is : — 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Wipe carefully the shell pf a hen lobster before you crack it, 
save any liquor which may run from it — take out the meat of 
the tail and claws, cut them in pieces the size of dice, and put 
them aside. Scoop out all the cream and small pieces of meat 
from the head and the coral, pound them well together with a 
little salt and cayenne in a mortar ; break the shells in pieces, 
and put them into a saucepan with just water enough to cover 
them, a blade of mace, and six black peppercorns. Let them 
boil ten minutes, then strain, and when the liquor is cold mix 
two tablespoonsful of flour with it, and put it into the stew pan 
with four ounces of butter cut in small pieces, shake the pan till 
the sauce boils, then gently stir in the pounded lobster and let it 
just boil up, add the pieces of lobster you set aside, and boil up 
again. In this manner you will have the pure flavour of the 
lobster ; but if you wish to mnke it stronger, add a teaspoonful 
of anchovy sauce, half a teaspoonful of catsup, and half a tea- 
spoonful of soy, stir well, and "lift" to mix and bring the sauce 
to its proper consistency (mind, it should be tolerably thick) ; 
before you put in the pieces of lobster, add, in the sauce-boat, a 
few small pieces of cold butter. 

SHRIilP SAUCE. 

b'^ Pick half a pint of shrimps, and mix them in a saucepan with 
o-as much melted butter (brought to the thickness of cream) as 
you may require, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. 
For a family sauce, the heads and skins should be boiled up 



92 THE DrnXER QUESTION. 

in a separate saucepan and the liquor wliicli is strained from 
them mixed with the butter; but as it is apt to give too strong- 
a flavour, if you Avish to make a delicate sauce you had better 
not use it. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put the beards cut from two dozen oysters into a small 
stew-pan with a little chopped lemon- peel, a small piece of shalot, 
six white peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of water ; stew 
them gently twenty minutes. Then dissolve four ounces of 
butter in another stew-pan, thicken gradually, in the same way 
as for melted butter, with a tablespoonful of flour, and half ;i 
teacupful of good milk or cream, using the liquor of the oysters 
and the soup strained from the beards instead of water. When 
smooth, and of the proper thickness, put in the oysters (witli 
the gristle removed) either whole or cut in small pieces. Boil 
up and serve. 

To flavour oyster sauce with anchovies, vanille, &c., is simply 
to spoil it. 

SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 

If scolloped oysters you would make, 

Fine, fresh-caught oysters you must take ; 

From shells detach, on fa-e boil them — 

'Not too long, or else you'll spoil them. 

The fish then strain, and save the juice — 

You'll find it of the greatest use ; 

And then, to be as nice as wise, 

The oysters you must barherise* 

K"ow put your beardless oysters whole 

Into a nice clean casserole ;t 

Add parsley chopped, and nutmeg grate, 

"With juice of oysters inundate. 

Make rich with butter, with pepper hot, 

And taste if it wants salt or not. 

If stronger gout you now would wish, 

Add fine-chopped onion to tliis dish ; 

But, as the onions tales do tell. 

To leave them out would be as well. 

'Tis now all in tliat you require, 

The next thing — i^lace it on the fire. 

As on the fire it now doth quicken, 

AYith flour and butter mixed you thicken. 

Two minutes' boiling Avill suffice — 

Taste, and I think you'll say " It's nice."' 

If lips you smack, and nod your head, 

The cook's approving yes you've s£iid. 

* To take off the beards. t Stew-pan. 



CAPEE, EGG, AXD CELEEY SAUCE. 93 

'Tis all perfection if once more 

You taste, and nod, just as before. 

So far so good, you've come good speed ; 

Some scollop-shells j'ou now will need. 

But, if you have no scollop-shell, 

A China dish will do as well. 

Strew on the dish some crumbs of bread, 

Then on the dish the oysters spread. 

"With crumbs you now the oysters crown. 

And with a knife you smooth them down. 

Before the fire now place the dish 

Until it's browned — just like fried fish. 

To table send — delay it not, 

For oyster scollops eat best hot. 

G. F. C, m Sorth British Advertiser. 

CAFEK SAUCE. 

Chop two teaspoonsful of capers, and mix them with a table- 
spoouful of their vinegar mixed with melted butter. 

PAKSLEY AXD BUTTER 

Is merely a little chopped parsley mixed with melted butter ; 
but if it be used for boiled fowls or veal, the butter should be 
mixed with milk. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Boil two eggs hard, chop them into small pieces, and mix 
them with a little pepper and salt, with melted butter. If you 
Avish the sauce to be 2^i^ucmte, add a quarter of a teaspoouful 
of mustard and the juice of a lemon. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut the hearts of two heads oi perfectly wJiite celery into 
small pieces, stew in a pint of cold water one hour, then 
strain off the liquor (which is too strong and dark for a deli- 
cate white sauce), add to the celery half a pint of milk, and 
stew for another hour, then " pulp " through a fine sieve, and 
mix the liquor and pulp, by little and little, with " melted 
butter," which should be prepared with milk. When in the 
sauce-boat add a " grate" of nutmeg. 

For a " family" sauce, stew at once in a pint of milk and water 
(in equal quantities) two hours, use part of the liquor to mix 
the " melted butter," and instead of " pulping " the celery, 
chop it in smaller pieces and let them appear in the sauce- 
boat. 



94 THE DI]S"NEU QUESTION. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Melt an ounce of butter cut in small pieces in a saucepan, 
and gradually mix it witli a tablespoonful of flour, then add 
also gradually, a quarter of a pint of milk, and a moderate 
sized Spanish onion (boiled for three-quarters of an hour) 
chopped in small pieces ; mix well with half a teaspoonful of 
salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground black pepper, 
give a concluding boil up, and serve in a sauce-boat. 

This is the best sauce for roast mutton, boiled rabbit, tripe. 
and boiled veal ; it is also used with rabbit pies ; indeed, in 
Cornwall and Yorkshire, where all kinds of pies are in the 
ascendant, it is popular with everything that wears a crust. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Put the crumb of a stale twopenny French roll, broken in 
small pieces, into a basin, and pour over them half a pint of 
boiling milk, beat up well with a wooden spoon, then add a 
middling sized roasted onion chopped in small pieces ; mix 
well with the bread and milk. Next melt an ounce of butter 
in a ste^^^Dan, and put into it the paste from the basin, with a 
little salt and cayenne, stir round for a couple of minutes over 
the fire, thinning if necessary with a little more milk. 

I have always found it best to make this sauce tJiicl' and^ 
hready, but as many prefer it thin and milky, the tastes of: 
those for whom it is prepared should be consulted. 

If onions are objected to in hody, instead of serving them 
in pieces, use only their juice. 

With this I conclude my examples of English sauces ; but 
before entering upon another branch of my work, it is neces- , 
sary to observe that I have studied to make all the receipts as .-, 
plain and economical as possible, so that they may be within 
the means of all classes of housekeepers. 

I will now turn to 

YEGETABLES. 

Under this head is comprised what may truly be called tlie 
better half of all plain English dinners ; for what table is ever 
without them, and how many thousands of the labouring com- 
munity from year's end to year's end depend almost solely on them 
for their support ? "^Yhat country housewife ever dreams of dishing 



YE GE TABLES. 95 

up a joint without " garden stuff " of some kind ; and what plain 
cook Avould venture to serve either fish, flesh, or fowl without 
their natural adjuncts, vegetables ! vegetables ! vegetables ? Yet, 
notwithstanding the important position they hold, not only as 
accessories, but as principals in the composition of a good dinner, 
how do we cook them ? — do we not continually hear and read of, 
as well as see, potatoes with the " bone "* in them, or boiled to 
pulp ? Is not cabbage often served up greasy and yellow ? 
are not green peas sometimes half swan shot and half squash 2 
Whitey-brown stringy turnips which wont be mashed, 
sluggy cauliflowers fringed with scum, gritty spinach, and 
many other equally unpleasant products of a carelessly, con- 
ducted kitchen. 

How comprehensively suggestive was the question the 
eminent gastronomic divine, who, when deputed by the com- 
mittee of his club to examine the candidates for the vacant 
cuillere de " chef de cuisine" which, like the "Baton de 
Marechal " that every French soldier believes to be hidden in 
his knapsack, every scullion of the meanest " Gargotte " is 
certain he will some day find at the bottom of one of his 
stew-pans, at once put to the aspirants, " Can you boil 
a potato ?" That is the touchstone of a cook's talent ; every- 
thing else, like Dogberry's reading and writing, " comes by 
nature." Well cooked vegetables do much for all classes of 
dinners. Smoking hot potatoes with " their jackets on," " the 
laughing maley vagabonds," have given an epicurean relish to 
many a cold shoulder ; a young summer cabbage has more than 
excused hashed mutton ; mashed potatoes have banished all 
sinister speculation on the foundation of sausages. Who has not 
been " a pig at beans and bacon ?" to say nothing of the 
miracles worked by early green peas, new potatoes, and aspara- 
gus, on ducklings, spring chickens, and house lamb. 

All good housewives take advantage of their knov.dedge of 
the seasons, when the flavour of every variet}^ of root, plant, or 
pod is enhanced by being presented to us for the first time. 
*' Don't forget we've new potatoes with the salmon to-day, 
Alfred," one will say ; or another will make " the first of the 
season" the principal feature of a family festival. " James, 

* "All fjliealeacli" — i.e. with the bone or the moon in it — is an Irish ex- 
pression, arising from the moon-like disk and halo the centre of a half- 
cooked potato presents when cut in tvro. 



96 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

dear, peas are in, you shall have a peck with a roast duck for 
your birthday," Or another " domestic treasure " will say, 
'•' I'm watching the asparagus, John, and as soon as it gets 
down to our mark, I'll treat you to a bundle." 

" Primeurs,"'^ though seldom possessing their full flavour, 
and are often disadvantageouslj'- introduced after the appetite 
has been satisfied, are always looked upon as important com- 
ponents of a set dinner ; in short, vegetables in their natural 
seasons are clteap luxuries at everyhody s command, and need 
but skilful treatment greatly to increase our zest for the " flats 
de resistance " alike of our homely and more pretending pran- 
dial meals. 

So, like Shakspeare's " French falconers," flying at every- 
thing relating to " garden stuflV I will endeavour to show how 
best to employ every variety of it, whether by plain boiling, 
stewing, frying, roasting, or baking. 

The "first horse in the team" is the ''Irish fruit." I will 
therefore open the ball with instructions 

HOW TO BOIL A POTATO. 

This appears at first sight to be, next to boiling the tea- 
kettle, the easiest of all culinary efforts ; but daily failures, 
or " perishings in the attempt," show us that in dealing with 
this tuberous root, we often parallel the proverb of " one man 
can lead a horse to the water, but a hundred cannot make him 
drink;" for although a child may put it into the saucepan, a 
brigade of the most illustrious " chefs " that ever wore white 
caps, men Vvho, like " le Grand Vatel," would die for the honour 
of their profession, cannot force or coax it to boil well, if 
nature has determined otherwise. 

This is the cause why so many good housewives are often in 
despair Avhen, in spite of plain boiling, steaming, -with or 
without their jackets, drying, &c, &c., the cleanest, smoothest, 
and best looking farinaceous warranted Yorkshire regents, pink 
eyes, cups, or apples, turn out " waxy, sad, or bony," and 
dropsical. " To begin with the beginning," then, in your 
efforts to merit the reputation of a good cook, let your first 

* This is a term of the French kitchen for which we have no technical 
parallel, saving " the first of the season ;" it is generally applied to forced 
productions. 



now TO BOIL A I'OTATO. 97 

care be to procure good materials, for without good quality 
your greatest skill will prove unavailing ; but experience will 
teach you that there are many sorts of potatoes which will 
" steam " although they w^ont boil, others which require quick 
boiling, others slow, others which should be peeled, and others 
which should retain their skins. 

No certain rule can be laid down to be generally adopted 
among the various methods I have detailed ; nothing but con- 
stant practice will enable you to judge of the "natures of the 
craytures," and how to deal with them accordingly. The best 
guide I can offer is to select those with rough skins, and eschew 
those with numerous large eyes; and if you have doubts of their 
soundness, break off a small piece, and if the inside be spotted 
or honeycombed, reject them as worthless. To proceed with 
my receipt. Buy your " fruit " in the mould, for the scrub- 
bing and washing as practised by the potato merchants several 
days before use, greatly injure their crispness and freshness. 
Scrub them well with a hard brush, but do not cut out the 
eyes, or partially pare them, as by so doing you will let the 
water into the heart, and produce all the bad boiling qualities you 
desire to avoid. Carefully select them of an equal size, and 
put them into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of salt, and just 
sufficient cold water to cover them ; for if there be too large 
a quantity they must necessarily remain in the water long be- 
fore they boil, and consequently break before they are done. 
When they have boiled five minutes, pour off the hot water and 
replace it with cold^ and half a tablespoonful of salt. Neither 
simmer nor " gallop," but boil steadily (with the cover on) three- 
quarters of an hour, some kinds (which you will discover by 
watching, and gently testing with a fork, 'if they he not craclced), 
will not require more than half an hour. When you are sure 
that they must be done (if you are in doubt, probe them with 
a fork) drain them dry, and put a clean cloth (kept for the 
especial purpose) upon them, cover closely with the lid, and let 
the saucepan stand on the hob until you are ready to serve 

» The reason for this innovation on the general practice is, that the 
heart of the potato beinir peculiarly liard, the outside, in the ordinary 
course, is done Ion.? be. ore it is softened. By chilling its exterior with cold 
.water, the heat of the first boiling strikes to the centre of the vegetable, 
and as its force gradually increases when the water boils again, by the time 
the outside has recovered from its chilling, the equilibrium is restored, and 
the whole potato is evenly done. 

G 



98 THE DINNEE QUESTIOK. 

your dinner, wlien you must take them out with a spoon, for if 
you use a fork for that purpose, you will in all probability 
break them if they are floury. 

N.B. The sooner a potato is eaten after it is done the better. 

Cooking and serving in the skins is unquestionably the best 
method, if the quality of the vegetable will warrant it ; but, 
when peeling is necessary, on the Irish principle of *•' killing a 
sick pig to save its life," you must make the most of it. 

STEAMIKG 

Is merely putting the potatoes, either pared or in their skins, 
in a saucepan with a colander bottom made for the purpose, on 
the top of another saucepan full of cold water. 

TO BOIL POTATOES IN THE LANCASHIRE WAY. 

" Pare the potatoes, cover them with cold water, and boil them 
slowly until they are quite tender, but watch them carefully, 
that they may not be overdone ; drain off the water entirely, 
strew some salt over them, leave the saucepan uncovered by 
the side of the fire, and shake it forcibly every minute or two 
until the whole of the potatoes appear dry and floury. Lan- 
cashire cooks dress the vegetable in this way to perfection, but 
it is far from an economical mode, as a large portion of the 
potato adheres to the saucepan ; it has, however, many admirers." 
— Modern Cooker^/, by Eliza Acton.* 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Clean, scrub, and d}y carefully some large ones, and bake 
them in the oven of your range, or in what I have heard called 
the " American Dutch," before the fire ; if very large, they may 
be parboiled before being put in the oven. With a pat of fresh 
butter, and a little salt and pepper, they are worthy their great 
popularity. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Peel and boil according to previous directions the quantity, 
you may require, and when done, pour off the water ; let the 

* In giving insertion to this most excellent receipt, I gladly avail myself 
of the opportunity of offering my testimony to the great talent of a con- 
temporary, whose book on cookery is per])aps one of the most comprehen- 
sive and useful works on the subject that has ever been published. 



KEW POTATOES. 99 

saucepan staud on the hob, with the cover ofi; for a minute or 
two for the steam to evaporate, then with a three-pronged 
wooden fork either simply break the potatoes, or, as many- 
cooks do, " pulp" them through a colander, or they may be 
mashed into a paste with a wooden spoon ; but I have always 
found breaking with a fork to be the best process, as it does not 
destroy the roughness of the flom-, which is an agreeable element 
in the flavour of this dish. 

Carefully take out all obstinate and black pieces, then put in 
an ounce of fresh butter cut in small pieces, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of black pepper, to every 
pound of potatoes ; mix well, and add in the same proportion 
two tablespoonsful of milk ; mix and stir well over the fire, 
and serve in a very hot dish. 

You may for variety " brov/n" in the Dutch oven. 

A mild Spanish onion boiled until tender, chopped in pieces 
and mixed with the potatoes, also forms an agreeable variety. 

NEW POTATOES. 
It is essential to have these fresh from the ground ; wash 
well, and rub off the skins with a rough cloth (in some instances 
they must be scraped), put them with a little salt into a sauce- 
pan, with ^ just enough of hoiling water to cover them ; boil 
quickly, with the lid on, from ten minutes to a quarter of an 
hour, according to size and quality ; pour off the water, and 
hold the saucepan over the fire for about a minute that the 
potatoes may dry, then serve in a hot dish, in which you have 
placed an ounce of butter cut in small pieces. 

N.B.— Kew potatoes should be eaten as soon as possible 
after they are taken from the saucepan, for if they are allowed 
to stand, their unevaporated steam will make them watery. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Mash with a little pepper and salt some well boiled potatoes, 
first with butter (an ounce to each pound), and then with three 
tablespoonsful of milk, or two of cream, in i\iQ same proportion. 

Make the paste into balls, roll them in flour or q^^ and 
bread-crumbs, and fry them either with butter or good drij^pino- 
until they are light brown. ° 

The Dutch oven may be used instead of the frying-pan for 
browning. 

G 2 



100 THE DIJ^^JS'ER QUESTION'. 

SAVOURY POTATO BALLS. 

These are made by adding to the above, if you wish for herb 
flavour, two sprigs of chopped parsley, one sprig of marjoram, 
and another of lemon thyme ; if you like onions, substitute a 
** mild Spanish," boiled and chopped in small pieces ; if you wish 
a force-meat flavour, add to the onion and herbs a slice of fried 
ham finely minced ; the ham may also be used alone. 

OYSTER POTATO BALLS. 

This is a very palatable dish for suppers, and its production 
being so very simple, it only requires to be pointed out to become 
popular. 

Beard a dozen (more or less, according to the number you 
provide for) small plump oysters, cover them singly with the 
plain mashed potato paste, roll them with flour, or beaten-up 
egg and bread-crumbs, into balls, and fry them in butter or 
dripping. 

Put into each ball when you make it up a teaspoonful of the 
oyster liquor. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Mash the potatoes in the same way as for potato-balls, adding 
the yolks of two beaten-up eggs ; put the quantity you may 
require for your cake into a tin, " glaze" the top with the white 
of the eggs, and bake in a quick oven a quarter of an hour. 

Having already given directions (at page 50) for "fried 
potatoes" and potatoes a la Maitre d' Hotel, it is needless to 
trouble you with more examples. When you have mastered 
the art of boiling, which is the " one thing needful," you may 
be safely left to invent another hundred "other ways" for your- 
self. 

I am now about to handle a ver}" delicate subject — one which 
in the process of manipulation is pretty sure to bring tears to 
the eyes — which, from the pungency or nasal titillation, as cer- 
tainly follows ; and moreover, when finally discussed, condemns 
the tabooed epicure to the performance of quarantine so long as 
he abideth not in the odour of " May Fair." But this potent, 
invaluable vegetable, this precious conglomerate bulb, needs no 
evidence from me : its merits are acknowledored all the world 



o^'IOXs. 



lOi^ 



over ; therefore I will not attempt to " gild refined gold," or 
" add a perfume to tlie violet," but simply announce that I have 
to deal with 

OXIOXS. 

Xotwithstanding the ill-favour with which this fine vegetable 
is looked upon by what is called in America the ''T'pper Ten 
Thousand,'' who always associate it with beef-steaks and 
vulgarity, it is one of the most useful and valuable friends of 
all our kitchens, where it constantly appears either openly in its 
native succulency and ^' haut-gout;' or subdued and civilized by 
artful disguises. 

The following able defence from The Cottage Gardener of 
thin fashion-proscribed vegetable will perhaps be found interest- 
ing to those v.- ho do not believe their love lor it is incompatible 
with gentility : — 

AThether it be the tyranny of fashion, or a morbid sense of delicacy, 
wliich lias all but banished tliis valuable bulb from tlie tables of the 
affluent, Ave know not ; but certainly it does not find its way thither to 
one half the extent we are told it does in other countries where it can be 
grown, and where a taste for the " useful" has been sulficient to overcome 
tliat "fastidious denial," which, we believe, is the only excuse for its less 
general u-e here. And as the highest authorities have pronounced the 
onion not only wholesome and nutritious, but liiiewi.-e valuable for pro- 
perties peculiarly its own, we trust the day is not far distant wiien our 
fair friends will deign to patronize this neglected vegetable, when sent to 
table prepared d la Soyer ; for we rest assured that until we have their 
consent, we must not eat onions, but must content ourselves witli the little 
of its extract that does find its way to our tables under the disguise of 
something else. Now, the farm labourer in most of our southern counties 
is not under such restraints. There he may be seen eating his bread and 
raw onions with a zest which the epicure in vain seeks for amongst his 
innumerable dishes, cooked and prepared in accordance with the most 
improved practice of the day ; and, though we ha^^e no doubt the rustic 
would willingly exchange his onion and salt for a beef-steak or rautton- 
cliop, and benefit by the change, yet we should be at a loss to find a better 
substitute for animal food; and the healthy appearance the rural popula- 
tion have in the districts where this bulb is most grown and used, tells, in 
undeniable language, that their food agrees with them. 

The late Mr. Read, in his Lectures on Cookery, fully corro- 
^' borates these opinions, and, speaking of the great utility of 
onions in all shapes, observes : — 

When used in moderation, onions are an indispensable adjunct to all 
good cookery, especially in soups, sauces, made dishes, and stuffings ; or, 
as tSwift sang — 

There is, in every cook's oplnicn. 

No savoury dish tcithout an onion. 



>/l02 



THE DIXNEE QTJESTIOTf. 



And to youthful gourmands he gives this wholesome advice — 

But lest your lissing should be spoiVil, 
The onions should be thoroughly boWd. 

For making ragouts or sauces, the small Avhite onions are the mildest 
and best. For this purpose cut off the two ends and boil them in plenty 
of water for a quarter ot an hour, then put them into cokl water ; take off 
the skin and fir.-t coating, and stew them in broth or stock till tender. 
The stock may be then thickened with butter and flour, and seasoned with 
a little pepper, salt, and a small bit of sug^r, and served \v\W\ any dish 
you think proper; or, when boiled tender, the onions may. when cold, be 
eaten as a salad, with pepper, salt, and oil, or with the addition of cold 
boiled potatoes sliced. For stocks, soups, and broths, the larger onions 
may be used ; and for these purposes they require to be merely peeled, slit 
in quarters, and boiled or " sweated " with the meat. In the preparation 
of all sauces (except onion sauce), made dishes, and soups, parsley should 
be used, as a corrective to the strong odour which the onions impart to 
the breath. The experience of ages has taught cooks the necessity of 
doing this, although there are but few of them wdio know why the best 
works in the culinary art recommend the two to be used together. Parsley, 
when eaten even after garlic, will prevent the breath from smelling so 
disagreeably as it otherwise would. 

The mildness of Spanish onions induces many persons to prefer them to 
the common sort ; they are consequently often eaten for supper with bread 
and butter, and with meats for dinner. They may be either baked, boiled, 
or roasted in a Dutch oven before the fire. When they are required of a 
very mild flavour, boil them in plenty of water, first taking off their skins ; 
but when they are to be baked or roasted, their skins should be allowed to 
remain on. When done, take off one or two of the outer coatings of the 
onions with their skins, and serve them with cold butter, pepper, and 
salt. They are excellent served with baked or roast mutton, boiled or 
stewed beef; or when made into a sauce, with boiled rabbits, tripe, or 
mutton cutlets, or with hot roasted potatoes, as a supper dish. Sauce 
soubise is much approved of, even by ladies, when made with these 
onions. 

It is quite as true as " union is strength," that onions are 
strong; but they are nevertheless toothsome, particularly when 
fried with a beefsteak ; but although a taste for this savoury 
"friture" may, like Charles Lamb's " roast pig," have " grown" 
upon us, it is certainly not advisable to indulge in it just before 
going into genteel society. Still, " beefsteaks and onions" have 
been (Mayfair and Belgravia, cease to apply the vinaigrette to your 
aristocratic nostrils) patronized by royalty ! There is a legend 
extant that that " Glass of Fashion," the late Count D'Orsay, 
and the Emperor of the French when he Avas in a chrysalis 
state, indulged in them at Gore House. George III. was fond 
of a roasted goose in which " violets" bore a prominent part in 
the Stuffing ; and *•' on the third day of the battle of Dresden," 



TTJRNIPS. 103 

says HofFman, the German novelist, wlio was in the town, " the 
Emperor's (Napoleon I.) energies were greatly impaired by the 
effects of a shoulder of mutton stuffed with onions," so we may 
live in hopes that some day, when the world is wiser, this poor 
man's delicacy will cease to be smuggled into our genteel 
kitchens, and its aroma will not be thought disagreeable, even 
though it " come betwixt the wind and our nobility." 

As it would serve no purpose but to swell my book, to give 
directions for roasting, boiling, frying, and stewing a vegetable 
which the most inexperienced housewife knows when used by 
itself will almost cook itself, I will proceed to the next useful 
bulb, and say a few words on 

TURXIPS. 

The mention of turnips always conjures up in homely 
English minds an association of a " boiled leg of mutton and 
trimmings ;" indeed, so national is the association, that it served 
as a knock-down blow to end an annoyance to which the late 
Charles Lamb, of facetious memory, was subjected to while 
travelling in a mail-coach, in the days when wits were in, and 
hard drinking went out, with a Yorkshire farmer. 

'•' What dost ee think o' manglewurzle ? how be beets wi' 
you ? and will inguns and tatars go oop or dov»m ?" and a 
hundred other equally interesting questions, were put and vaguely 
answered with polite resignation ; but, when after sixty miles 
of torture (at the rate of about seven miles an hour), " and how 
be turnips loikely to turn out this year in your parts ?" was 
asked, the opportunity for a " facer" couldn't be resisted by the 
humorist, who, gathering up all his vis comica of look and 
tone, replied, " Why, that, my good sir, will entirely depend ou 
the boiled legs of mutton." 

BOILED TURNIPS. 

Pare, them, taking care to remove all the imier rind, put 
them into the saucepan with the meat you are cooking, either 
whole or cut in halves ; young turnips will require three 
quarters of an hour, and if they are middle-aged an hour and a 
quarter. Old ones should never be used when they are to be 
eaten with the meat, for they are stringy and bitter ; indeed^ they 
should be cautiously used even for soup. 



lOJi THE DrN'KEE QtJESTIOX. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Press the liquor from them hy placing them hetween two 
plates, beat them up with an ounce of butter to about four 
middling-sized turnips, and half a teaspoonful of pepper and 
salt. Be careful to remove lumps, &c. You ma}', if you have 
company, add a spoonful or two of cream, then warm, and mix 
in a stewpan. 

I will say nothing of stewing in butter, Rissoles, &c, &c., as 
they are extravagant varieties belonging to the French kitchen. 

CxVRROTS, 

When plain-boiled, form part of the leg of mutton trimmings," 
and " hold their own" wnth boiled beef and pork. Care should 
be taken that they are not too large or too old. It is, of course, 
imderstood that they must be scraped when at maturity, and 
rubbed when very young. To accompany delicate dishes, the 
small French carrot is in great favour. 

N.B. — All kinds of carrots (excepting the small French, which 
require a fall hour) must be boiled two hours. 

CARROTS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of. 
chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of cayenne ; then put in half a dozen small (boiled) 
French carrots, and shake them into the butter and parsley. 

SUMMER CABBAGE. 

Before giving instructions for cooking this " sweet harbinger 
of summer," it is necessary to say a few words on its proper 
preparation for the saucepan. 

Take as a rule that all kinds of *' jiot greens" harbour amid 
their leaves a large quantity of insects and dirt, or, not to mince 
the matter, grubs, caterpillars, slugs, small worms, mould, stones, 
&c. ; these the clean and careful housewife must remove in the 
following manner : — 

After cutting off the outer leaves and the stump, if you see 
small green or black spots on the stalks, or a number of holes 
in the foliage, you may be certain that unJesirable tenants 
occupy the interior of the premises; to ensure their ejectment, 
steep the vegetable tenement in salt and water for an hour, then ■ 



CABBAGES A^D SPINACH. 105 

pull open the leaves round the heart, carefully remove all 
skulkers, and wash well in two or three waters. If j-ou do not 
perceive the above sis^ns of the presence of disagreeable tenantry, 
examining and washing will be sufficient, for " steeping" is apt 
to destroy the freshness and crispness of the vegetable. 

Another hint: "green water" should never be thrown down 
the sink, but be kept in a covered pan or jug until 3'ou have an 
opportunity of sending it out of the house, either to assist in 
nourishing the animals we make bacon of, or, if you live in 
London, to augment the turgid stream against whose unsavoury 
odours the Times has so energetically, and it is hoped (by the 
exertions of the sanitary commission which originated through 
its warnings) successfully, denounced. To return to the cab- 
bages : put them, with a tablespoonful of salt, into boiling 
water, and the " smallest taste in life" of common soda — be 
careful to adhere strictly to the quaniity of this direction, for if 
you over-do the water-softeninri agent, you will not only 
destroy the Havom* of the vegetable, but cause the outer leaves 
to be boiled to pulp before the heart is half done. 

You must regulate your time for boiling according to the 
season of the year and the size of the cabbages ; for instance, 
the spring plants being very tender, they will require but a 
quarter of an hour ; in the autumn, being larger and harder, 
they will take from five-and-twenty minutes to half an hour ; 
and in the winter, being stronger and tougher, they will want 
at least three quarters of an hour. Strain through a colander, 
and press them quite dry between two plates. 

CAULIFLOWERS A^D BROCCOLL 

Be very careful in your examination and washing before you 
put these in the saucepan, for their stalks and branches aflbrd 
peculiar facilities for " squatting" to man}' insect settlers. The 
time required for cooking is (according to size and season) from 
twenty minutes to half an hour. 

Put a little salt in the water, but no soda, for the latter will 
cause the flower to drop from the stem. 

SPIJ^^ACH * 

Must be picked leaf by leaf, then take off the stalks and 
thoroughly wash the leaves iu Jive cr six waters, or they will be. 



106 THE DIKIs^EE QUESTIOIS". 

as is too often the ease when carelessly prepared, yr^7^^. When 
you are sure that every particle of mould, &c., is removed, drain 
in a colander, and put the leaves into a large saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of salt, and a pinch of soda sprinkled over them, 
then add a quart of hoiling water, press the leaves down, and 
boil quickly ten minutes, stirring frequently. When done 
strain and press carefully, as this vegetable retains the watei 
more than any other. 

This is the plain, and to my mind the best, w^ay of sending 
spinach to table, as it preserves the true flavour of the plant : 
but if you v.'ish to make it richer, after straining and pressing, 
put your spinach on a board, chop it fine, and place it in a stew- 
pan with an ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of pepper and 
salt (in equal quantities), stir well until the butter is absorbed, 
turn into a hot dish, cut the pulp into small squares or diamonds, 
and serve with poached eggs and slices of fried bacon, garnishing 
with sippets of fried bread. 

SPINACH IN THE FRENCH MANNER. 
This, to many plain English tastes, is a scientific manner oi 
destroying the flavour of a vegetable which, when simply cooked, 
is most agreeable. The process is as follows : — After picking, 
boiling, straining, and pressing, put your spinach into a pan of 
fresh water ; and w^hen it is cold make it into balls, and squeeze 
them in your hands until all the water is expelled ; chop fine on 
a board with a wooden spade ;* then melt an ounce of butter in 
a stewpan, put the spinach into it, mix well for ten minutes, 
lightly dredge with a tablespoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of 
salt ; add gradually a quarter of a pint of boiling cream or the 
yolks of two beaten -up eggs, in which case omit the flour; two 
tablespoonfuls of veloute, or strong white stock, and a teaspoon- 
ful of pounded sugar ; mix well, and serve in a hot dish with 
light brown sippets of fried bread or pufl*-paste baked in fanciful 
devices. 

* In France, where spinach is indigenous, not only this instrument, but 
many other ingenious utensils are used for its most perfect manipulation. 
Visitors to Paris cannot fail to be struck with the numerous ways in 
which this familiarly called " broom of the stomach" is served up by the 
resffiurateur.i ; and its various "Protean shapes" on the boards of the 
vendors in the markets aniL the greengrocers' shops, when prepared with 
sorrel, garlic, saffron, and curd cheese, lead our unsophisticated country- 
men to suppose it to be the "fresh laver" they see advertised in the 
newspapers, or the " caviare" alluded to by Sbakspeare. 



GEEE2f PEAS. 



ASPARAGUS. 



107 



'•I Scrape well, cut the heads to an equal length, tie them to- 
'•^ther in small bundles, and boil briskly twenty minutes, serve 
~ \vith a toast at the bottom of the dish, and butter-sauce a la 
Tickletooth. 

Endeavour to cook this vegetable as soon as possible after it is 
jut ; but it will keep well, if put on the stones in a cool larder, 
for three or four days. Do not keep it in water, or you will 
:-make it hard and destroy the flavour. 



ASPAEAGUS POINTS. 



Chop the tender parts of the small green plants into small 
pieces, and boil them loose in the saucepan for twenty minutes 
— then put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and 
brown them ; add a tablespoonful of cream, and another of 
gravy, or, if you have it. Bechamel sauce. 

GP.EEX PEAS. 

'■ Shell them at home, as there are obvious reasons against 
buying them ready shelled — when they first come in, being 
young, they will need no separation, but as the season advances, 
you must sort them in the shelling, and give the old, and the 
middle-aged, ten and five minutes' boiling before you put in the 
younger ones. 

Boil with a good handful of salt, quickly, from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes, according to age and size ; strain through 
a colander, and serve in a deep dish with an ounce or so of 
butter (according to the quantity of peas) cut in small pieces 
over the top, 

. It is the old English custom, to boil and serve with the peas, 
a few leaves of fresh mint; but as many have an objection to 
it, it is advisable to boil it in a separate small saucepan, and 
serve it as garnish round the dish, and so propitiate all tastes. 

N.B. — Never, under any circumstances, U7iless you wish 
efitirely to destroy all Jlavour, and reduce your j)eas to 
Jpulp, boil them tdth soda. This favourite atrocity of the 
English kitchen cannot be too strongly condemned. 

GREEN PEAS A LA PRANCAISE. 

If, according to Brillat Savarln, " the trufiie is the diamond of 



108 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

the kitchen," in what Ccategory are we to place green peas ? L 
there in the whole of the vegetable creation any known root 
pod, pulse, plant, leaf, or offshoot, that does not doff its ca^ 
and bow its head to the pride of the garden and the field ; tlu 
native, the common, the to all classes, favom-ite luxmy ; th( 
spring-tinted, saccharine, pulp\^ orbs, which are sold at Christ- 
mas to the millionaire at ten guineas a quart, and in July ti 
the million at fourpence a peck / To go no I'urther into tli( 
garden or field of pea poesie, green peas may be styled ov.) 
kitchen emeralds, and when we see them in the hands of? 
French cook, we share the uncomfortable presentiment of the 
ducks, who, while feeding on their blossoms, have a vague con- 
sciousness that their fate will be governed by the method d 
cooking them. But, however, as tastes differ, and the Freii 
mode has many admirers, I will record it. 

Put a quart of fresh -gathered and shelled young p?as into a 
pan with a quarter of a poimd of fresh butter, and two quarts ol 
cold water, rub the peas and butter together with the fingers 
until well mixed, then pour off the water and put the peas into a 
stewpan with the hearts of two lettuces shred small, a small 
onion, and a sprig of parsle3%a dessertspoonfulof pounded sugar, 
and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt — cover well, and stew 
gently half an hour. Next put about two ounces of fresh butter 
on a plate with a dessertspoonful of flour, and knead them 
together, put this into the peas, and toss the Avhole together 
until well mixed. When you serve, take out the parsley and 
onions, but let the lettuce remain. 

BROAD BEANS, 

When very young and served -with parsley and butter and a 
piece of good bacon, arc considered b}' many as one of the treats 
of the season. Simple boiling in hot water from twenty to 
five-and-twenty minutes, according to age, is all they require. 

FRENCH BEANS AND SCARLET RUNNERS. 

Wash well, and " top and tail" them, break them in half, 
put them into a basin (without water) and sprinkle a table- 
spoonful of salt over them, in about ten minutes put them with 
a very small pinch of soda into a saucepan full of boiling water ; 
boil from ten to fifteen minutes, and strain dix. 



SrU^EI SiilTH'S KECEIPT TOR A SALAD. 109 

When the beans are getting elderly, break ofF the pointed 
lid, and string them down the back and front. When they are 
-ery old, you'niust split them down the middle and cut them 
n half; they will then require from twenty-five minutes to 
lalf an hour. • • n 

The French method is to chop them up (after boihng) and 
varm them wdth butter in the stewpan. 

VEGETABLE MAEP.OW. 

Choose them young and of a moderate size, divide them 

Jongways in the centre, if they are large, cut them in quarters, 

take out the seeds, and put the pieces into boiling water, with 

a little salt ; boil twenty minutes, take out with a slice, and 

serve on a toast with melted butter. 

Lettuces and spring radishes may be treated in the same 

manner. i • c 

Thinking the foregoing examples for the proper cookmg ot 
vegetables ''quite sufficient for the scope of my work, I will 
wind up the subject with the celebrated 

KECIPE FOR A WINTER SALAD, BY SYDNEY SMITH. 

Two Lirge potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 
'^■' rnwonted softness to the salad give. 

CGS Of mordent mustard add a single spoon ; 

Distrust the condiment which bites so soon ; 

But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
^^- To add a double quantity of salt. 

Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. 

And once with vinegar procured from town. 

True flavour needs it, and your poet bfgs, 

Tlie pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 

And. scarce suspected, animate the whole. 
'.: And, lastly, on the favoured compound toss 

n-f A magic teaspoonful of ancltovy sauce ; 

Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, 

And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, 

Serenely full the epicure may say — 

Fate cannot harm .me— I have dined to day. 

^^- I cannot quit this portion of my labour without strongly 
■jirging the great importance of procuring every kind of vege- 
*feble as soon as possible after it is cut or dug up ; the reason of 
-■ftiis is obvious, for when the " milk" has left the plant and the 
' air has dried the *'' pores" of the bulb, the flavour becomes 



110 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

greatly deteriorated ; consequently those who live in towns, aiic 
are obliged to make their purchases in markets or of green' 
grocers, know but little of the mellowness, crispness, and sweet 
ness of " our garden" produce. Careful town housewives shouk 
therefore make their purchases early on marlcet days; or 
instead of having the articles they require but a day or tico old 
which from their being gathered for loading a day beforehanc 
is ahcays the case, they will in all probability be put off witl 
withered, sapless plants, and roots kept in water in a cellar foi 
perhaps a week or more. To know when vegetables have beer 
''refreshed'' is no easy task, but after paying for a few practica. 
lessons, a pretty certain judgment may be formed, and bittei 
asparagus, sticky turnips, decomposing cabbages, diseased pota- 
toes, and tasteless peas and beans, may be avoided. In all 
cases, I would advise the housekeeper to market for herself. 

rUDDINGS AXD PIES. 

In approaching this very important subject, so wide is the 
field to be traversed, and hydra-headed are the prejudices I have 
to combat, that nothing but boldly 2^i^^ning each kind of paste 
to the board, and by fioury arguments insidiously Jcneading 
butter, dripping, suet, and lard into cWAizedi fatuiiy, Avill ever 
enable me to roll out my system, and manijpidate my recipes. 

The first point to ascertain is, when does pastry cease to be 
digestible .^ Some eminent doctors tell us that in any form if ■ 
is the most destructive and unwholesome thing we can eat, in- 
asmuch as it generates bile, dyspepsia, and gout, and when it is 
allied to fruit, and eaten constantly, inevitable decay of the 
teeth. On the other hand, equally eminent practitioners as 
strenuously advocate a moderate indulgence in it as advisable for 
its nutritious qualities, as well jas its digestibility. 

On the " fallacies of the faculty" I will not pretend to argue, 
for the mole-like v/orking of medical science so closely re-" 
sembles the navigation of a ship in a fog, that it is entii'ely a 
matter of chance whether the port be reached or a rock be run 
upon. A piece of sponge charged with acids, thrust with a-, 
strip of whalebone down the throat, may be a cure for every- 
thing, from consumption down to a refractory chilblain; mes- 
meric pavsses may eradicate the gout and tic-douloureux, and give 
vitality to a wooden leg ; being taken out of bed and wrapped 
in wet sheets onay consolidate the nerves, and sweat away 



PUDDINGS, DUMPLINGS, AND PIES. Ill 

chronic rheumatism ; and infinitesimal doses of subtle poisons 
v.iay restore a shattered constitution to its pristine vigour ; still, 
clever men have been Icnoivn to make mistakes . 

In a lew years many of our present " bubbles of the day" 
will be found, like Abernethy's " blue pill " — which, after he had 
prescribed it, in firm belief of its curative excellence, for more 
than twenty years, he himself denounced as " the very worst 
thing that could be taken* — scientific delusions. But, 
despite of all time and all opinions, there is one kind of pastry 
\vhich stands, boldly forward to give the " loud lie" to all 
invidious assertions against its digestibility and nourishing pro- 
perties. 

DUMPLINGS 

Will always maintain an important position on the tables of our 
labouring classes ; in fact, the taste for them may be considered 
national, particularly in the agricultural counties. 

Let them be mere flour and water " chokers," as hard as 
paving stones, or sad and heavy " yeasty s," were they ever 
known to qualii}^ Giles Scroggings or Simon Snaggers for the 
waters of Vichy ? or when did cherries, gooseberries, damsons, 
or mulberries, wrapped in plain paste, ever destroy the white and 
solid nutcrackers of Kitty Clover or Sally Cowslip ? 

It is clear, then, that at least that branch of pastr}^ is whole- 
Bome ; Yorkshire puddings, suet dumplings, and meat pies and 
puddings, may also be placed in the same category ; but when 
we approach the higher walks ; when puff, flaky, and short 
crusts are veutm-ed upon, there's the rub ! They may challenge 
controversy, and sometimes richly merit every objection that 
can be urged against them. 

* This is a well-known fact. A patient being asked by the Doctor in 
his peculiar brusque manner what medicine he had been taking, replied, 
•'Your blue pill, sir," received, to his astonishment and dismay, the 
. follov.ing alarming confession of error: — 

" I thought so, I thought so ; it's the worst, the very worst thing in the 
world, sir ! Make your will, sir, make .your will ; for it will kill you, sir, 
kill you." 

" But," urged the trembling patient, " you yourself prescribed it for me 
ten years ago." 

" Very likely, very likely," answered the Doctor, repentantly rubbing up 
his hair, and nervously tvrirling his watch-chain ; " I believed in it then, 
know better now ; poison, sir, rank poison. If you wash your shirt with 
oxalic acid, though it may whiten it, it will rot it — rot it, sir. Your 
stomach is like your shu-t, the blue pill's worse tlian the acid ; it will kill 
you, sir, it will kill you. I was a fool to recommend it." 



112 TllE Dlls^'ijli QL'ESTIOX. 

It shall now be my endeavour to show yoa how, by a little 
care and skill, you may make your paste both light and di- 
gestible. 

Taking each of the three above-mentioned kinds under its 
proper head, I will first proceed to show the best method of 
producing what is technically called 

FLAKY PASTE. 

In the first place, have your hands, your pasteboard or 
marble-slab, your dredging -box, your rolHng-pin, and all your 
other utensils, in " working order' (it is some time since I used 
that expression, but you'll remember it) ; next, having decided 
on the size of the pie or pudding you wish to make (allowing a 
quarter of a pound of butter to half a pound of flour), put half 
the butter, with the whole of the flour, into a paste-basin, rub 
them well together with the tips of your fingers as quichly and 
lightly as ]yossihle ; then in the same manner mix with cold 
water until you have formed a loose paste, then flour your board 
or slab, and, also quickly and lightly, roll the paste upon it to 
the substance of a thin pancake, upon this spread with a 
knife over its entire surface a third of the butter you have put 
aside ; fold the paste in three, and roll it again to the thin 
pancake, coat it as before with half of the remaining butter, 
fold and roll again, spread the remainder of the butter, then 
roll for the last time. 

It ihay be thought that if the quantity of butter and flour 
be correct, and strict attention is bestowed on spreading, folding, 
and rolling, that everything necessary has been done for the 
production of a fine light paste ; but there is something yet 
needed: unless the hand that forms it be " as light as a feather," 
and the whole process is performed with celerit}', it will be " as ; 
heavy as lead." How often have I seen the flour and butter 
" squashed" together with both hands, the rolling-pin used as a | 
beater, and the whole force of a stalwart pair of arms thrown 
upon it when employed in rolling the pancake. The three 
essentials in the preparation of all kinds of pastry are, to mix 
well, so that perfect smoothness may be obtained, to roll and 
spread lightly, and never to dwell long on any portion of the 
work. 

As the success or failure of your paste will depend a great 
deal on the temperature of your oven, be careful to get it up to 



PLAKT, SnORT, A^B PrFF PASTES. 113 

the heat you require, v>-hich, thxougli hrisk, should not be too 
iL'rce. 

SHORT PASTE 

Is formed by misiiig cdl the butter -vvitli the flour in the 
basin, making the paste a little firmer, and rolling out but 
once. If a richer paste be required, add to each half-pound of 
Hour an ounce of powdered sugar, half the yolk of a beaten- 
up egg, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 

PUFF PASTE. 

The butter and Hour must be in equal quantities, and the yolk 
of a beaten-up egg, half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a pint 
of cold water should be used with every pound of flour and 
butter. JMix the flour with the egg, the water, and the salt, 
lightly and quickly, with the tips of the fingers, making the 
paste moderately firm. Then place it on the slab, and put the 
butter (which should be pressed in a cloth to expel the milk) in 
one piece in the centre, fold the paste over it, and set it aside, 
on ice (if possible) in the summer, or on the stones in a cold 
cellar, for a quarter of an hour ; then place it on the slab, 
with a dredging of flour over and under it, and roU it out to 
the thickness of about half an inch, observing that you keep it 
square at both ends, as much of the success depends on due 
attention being paid to the turning and folding ; then lay it in 
three folds, and roll it out again in the opposite direction ; fold 
as before, and put it back on the ice or stones for another 
quarter of an hour, then roll out and fold once more. This 
paste, which is very rich, is principally employed for savoury 
patties, fruit puff's, and delicate tartlets. When carefully made, 
and well baked, it will rise several inches. 

SUET CRUST. ■ 

For boiling, chop into s7naU pieces six ounces of good beef 
or veal suet, mix it with a pound of flour and sufiicient water to 
form a fi.rm paste. 

For baking, shred the suet, and rub it well into the flour 
before you put in the water. This paste should also be firm. 

LARD AND DRIPPING CRUSTS 
Are produced in the same manner as the " flaky paste," lard or 
dripping being u?ed as economical substitutes j for in these, as 

H 



114 THE DIN^'EK QUESTIOX. 

well as in the foregoing pastes, lightness of hand and rapidity 
of execution are equally essential. : 

Presuming that you are now in possession of all the secrets 
of paste-making, I will, as I have directed in my receipt for 
the production of the "puff" variety, leave it for awhile to 
settle, and proceed to another branch of the subject — pudding- 
making — to which the following whimsical, yet withal philo- 
sophical, meditation, culled from Boswell's Journal of a Tour 
to the Hebrides, with Doctor Johnson, in 1785, will, I trust, be 
found a pleasant introduction. It is remarkable for conveying 
in a very few words the essence of a lengthy and learned 
treatise: — • : 

MEDITATION OX A PUDDING. 

Let us seriously reflect what a pudding is composed of. It is composed 
of flour, tiiat once waved in golden grain, and drank the dews of the morn- 
ing ; of milk pressed from the swelling udder by the gentle hand of the 
beautiful milkmaid, whose beauty and innocence might have recom- 
mended a worse draught, who while she stroked the udder indulged in no 
ambitious thoughts of wandering in palaces, formed no plans for the 
destruction of her fellow-creatures — milk that is drawn from the cow, that 
useful animal that cats the grass of the field, and supplies us with that 
which made the trreatest part of the food of mankind in the age wliich the 
poets have agreed to call golden It is made with an egg, that miracle of 
nattire, which the theoretical Barnet has compared to creation. 

An egg contains water witliin its beautiful smooth surface ; and an un- 
formed mass, by the incubation of the parent, becomes a regular animal, 
furni^hed with bones and sinews, and covered with featliers. 

Let us consider: — can there be more wanting to complete the meditation 
of a pudding? If more be wanting, more can be found. It contains salt, 
whicli keeps tlie sea from putrefaction — salt which is made with the image 
of intellectual excellence, contributes to the formation of a pudding. 

On the principle that an artisan should know the quality and 
capability of the tools he has to work with, I think it necessarj', 
before I specify the various kinds of puddings that can be made 
for the family table, to otfer a few remarks on the properties of 
the articles that must be used in their production, together 
with a practical hint or two on the best manner of preparing 
them. 

That the information I wish to convey may be perfectly 
clear and ea.sy to be acted upon, I will, instead of generalizing, 
treat each article separately. 

Floue, for fine pastry, should be dried in a slack oven, 
and sifted. Biscuit flour may be used for "puff paste," but it 
should not be boiled. For family pies and puddings, there is; 
no need either to dry or sift. i 



IXGEEDIENTS Or A PUDDING. 115 

3Iile:. — For tliis, if you do not keep your own cow, you are 
entirely in the hands of your purveyor. The London " sky 
I line" mixture is the most difficult to deal with, but it is not 
ahcays as blue as it is painted. In the country, where you get 
it pure and fresh, a much smaller quantity is required than when 
it has been " stretched" with water, chalk, potato starch, <fcc. &c. 
In this experience can alone direct you. 

'• Scalding," particularly in warm weather, is to be recom- 
mended, as it not only prevents the milk from turning, but 
enables you to remove from it all the *■' stretching" impurities. 
The process is as follows : — put the milk into a jug or basin, 
and place it in a saucepan with just enough cold water to cover 
about a third of the vessel. As soon as the water boils, take 
out the jug or basin containing the milk, and set it aside in a 
cool place. When cold, the top will be creamed, and the im- 
purities will remain at the bottom. 

Cbeaic. — This is also greatly adulterated in London. By 
"scalding" 3'ou may remove the deleterious matter; but if the 
quality be poor and thin, a beaten-up eg^ should be used to 
give it consistencj'. 

Butter, for fine pastry, should be fresh ; but for general 
purposes, use good salt. It may also be clarified by pouring 
boiling water on it and leaving it to get cold ; in this state it 
is nearl}^ equal to the best fresh ; it should, however, be used 
as soon as possible, for it will not keep. 

Eggs vary considerably in size ; judgment is therefore re- 
quired to use more or less according to the quantity set down 
in the receipt. Duck eggs, which in general are larger and 
fuller flavoured than those of the hen, are greatly used for all 
kinds of puddings and pies. Be careful to break each Qg§ sepa- 
rately in a cup, for if it should happen to be bad, you can put 
it aside, which you cannot do if you break your whole quan- 
tity in a bowl. Remember what I have previously said about 
*' that will do ;" one musty ^^^ will flavour a large pudding; 
trust, therefore, to your nose as well as your eyes, and on no 
occasion hope a doubtful one " will do." 

Lard. — It is best to purchase the pig's "flair" and " melt it 
down" yourself, as you will then be sure it is not whitened with 
arsenic or thickened with lime, both of which adulterations are 
still, in spite of Mr. Wakley's exposures in the Lancet, very 
prevalent : under all circumstances, never use it unless it is 
h2 



116 THE DlKXEr^ QUESTION. 

quite fresli. It may be mixed to advantage in stnall quan- 
tities with butter in the formation of "flaky" and "puff" 
pastes. 

Dripping should be clarified before it is used, and carefully 
freed from gravy, cinders, &c. Be sure that it is fresh. 

Suet. — To have it fresh is the main point, for should any 
portion be at all musty it will entirely destroy your pie or 
pudding. Beef is the best, veal the next, especially for making 
crust, but mutton is the lightest for dumplings. 

The best method for keeping, is to wipe the piece carefully, 
sprinkle a little salt or flour over it, and hang it uj) in a cool 
place. 

If the pieces are too small to be hung up, put them on a 
plate, and turn them every day, wiping the plate carefully, and 
adding a little fresh flour or salt. 

You will, as matters of course, carefully wash and pick your 
currants and stone fruit, remove mouldiness from your preserves, 
and be quite certain of the " working" condition of yom- pud- 
ding cloths, moulds, basins, tins, &c. That your oven is at the 
proper heat when you bake, and the water is boiling when you 
put in your puddings and dumplings, must also form part of 
your " matters of com-se." 

Having shown you the properties of your principal tools, I 
will now direct you how to use them. I will take as my first 
example the especial "pet" of all housewives, which each flat- 
ters herself she can make much better than any of her neigh- 
bours, a 

CHRTST^IAS PLUM-PUDDIKG. 

This peculiarly national dish, which Lord Byron, during his 
sojourn in Florence, after devoting a whole morning to giving 
directions to his cook for its proper preparation, for an English 
treat to his friends on his birthday, had served up as soup in 
a tureen, is now so well known throughout the Continent, that 
in some guise or other, although it must be confessed our 
" home-bred youth " may often say with Hamlet, " Thou 
comest in such a questionahle shape," it is to be found occupy- 
ing a distinguished position among the entremets in the cartes 
of the highest and the lowest restaurateurs. " Bloni Budin" 
au Rhum or Vin de Madere being considered, like " JPal-al * . 
and red haii*, a JBritannique speciality. .u 



CHEISTMAS PLUM-PUDDINGS. 117 

To " make assurance doubly sure," and give the inexpe- 
rienced housewife an opportunity of perfecting her own pudding 
hy adopting the good points and eschewing the bad of several 
" old masters " and mistresses of the culinary art (as a young 
painter will try to retain the beauties of a Tm-ner or a Eem- 
brandt, while he avoids their eccentricities), I will for once de- 
part from my usual course, and give two or three " other 
v.ays " from the works of my most talented contemporaries. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM-PUDDIXGS. 

SOYER'S RECEIPT. 

Pick and stone one pound of the best Sfalaga raisins, which put in a 
basin, with one pound of currants (well washed, dried and picked), a pound 
and a half of gooi beef suet (chopped, but not too fine), three quarters of 
a pound of white or brown sugar, two ounces of candied lemon and orange 
peel, two ounces of candied citron, six ounces of flour, and a quarter of a 
pound of bread ci-umbs, with a little grated nutmeg ; mix the whole well 
together, with eight whole eggs and a little milk. Have ready a plain or 
ornamented pudding mould, well butter the interior, pour the above mixture 
into it, cover a sheet of paper over, tie the mould in a cloth, put the pud- 
ding into a large stewpan containing boiling water, and let it boil quite 
fast for four hours and a half (or it may be boiled by merely tying it in a 
pudding-cloth previously well floured, forming the shape by laying the 
cloth in a round-bottomed basin, and pouring the mixture in ; it will make 
no difierence in the time required for boiling). When done, take it out of 
the cloth, turn from tlie mould upon your dish, sprinkle a little powdered 
sugar over, and serve with the following sauce in a boat : — Put the yolks of 
three eggs in a stewpan, with a spoonful of powdered sugar, and a gill of 
milk; mix well together, add a little lemon peel, and stir over the fire until 
becoming thickish (but do not let it boil), when add two glasses of brandy, 
and serve separate. The above sauce may be served poured over the 
pudding, if approved of. An excellent improvement to a plum-pudding is 
to use half a pound of beef marrow, cut into small dice, omitting the same 
quantity of suet. 

:.IKS. ACTO>''S RECEIPT. 

To three ounces of fiour, and the same weight of fine lightly grated bread- 
crumbs, add six of beef kidney-suet chopped small, six of raisins weighed 
after they are stoned, six of well cleaned currants, four ounces of minced 
apples, five of sugar, two of candied orange-rind, half a teaspoonful of nut- 
"meg mixed with powdered mace, a very little salt, a small glass of brandy, 
and three whole eggs. Mix and beat these ingredients well together, tie 
them lightly in a thickly floured cloth, and boil them for three hours and a 
half. We can recommend this as a remarkably light small rich pudding. 
It may be served with German wine or punch sauce. 

I^T DOCTOR KITCHENER'S RECEIPT. 

Suet, chopped fine, six ounces ; 3[alaga raisins, stoned, six ounces ; cur- 
rants, nicely washed and picked, eight ounces ; bread-crumbs, three ounces ; 
flour, three ounces ; eggs, three ; sixth of a nutmeg ; small blade of mace, 
?ame quantity of cinnamon, poimded as fine as possible ; half a teaspoonful 



118 THE DINJiER QUESTiON. 

of salt: lialfapiiit of milk, or rather less ; sugar four ounces ; to which 
may be added candied lemon one ounce, citron lialf an ounce. Beat the 
egg< and spice together; mix the milk with them by degrees, then the rest 
of the ingredients; dip a line dose linen cloth into boiling water, and put 
it in a hair-sicAC, tlour it a little, and tie it up clo-e ; put it into a saucepan 
containing six quarts ofboiling water; keep a ketile of boiling water aloiig 
side of it, and till up your pot as it wastes. Be sure to keep it bo.ling 
six hours at least. 

MY OVTN RECEIPT A LA TICKLETOOTH. 

One pound of muscatel raisins, stoned, and cut in half; one 
pound of Sultana raisins ; one pound of best currants, washed, 
picked, and rubbed dry ; one pound of fresh beef suet, chopped 
fine; one pound of moist sugar; two ounces of candied citron 
peel ; two ounces of candied orange peel ; two ounces of candied 
lemon peel, and half the rind of a fresh lemon chopped in small 
pieces — the candied peels should be cut in strips ; two ounces 
of bitter and two ounces of Jordan almonds blanched, and cut 
in not too small pieces ; three nutmegs grated ; a small tea- 
spoonful of powdered white ginger, and the same quantity of 
salt ; one pound of fine bread crumbs ; three quarters of a 
pound of fine flour. Mix all well together in a large pan be- 
fore moistening. Beat up nine eggs (if they are small, ten) 
for a quarter of an hour, add a wineglassful of good ale, beat 
up again and stir this well into the pudding until all be 
thoroughly mixed. Damp a close pudding-cloth in the boiling 
water, then flour it well, turn the pudding into it, tie it up 
securely, ver// nearly tight, for it should not have much room 
to swell — BOIL IT >'INE HOEES. Kemember the old adage, 

Plum-pudding hot, 

riurn-tmdding cold. 
Plum-pudding in the pot 

Jyine days old. 

When done, lift it out of the saucepan, and put it in a pan 
of cold water, turn it over three or four times, take it out, 
stand it on a colander, untie the string, and carefully turn the 
pudding into a large hot dish. 

Have ready four ounces of blanched Jordan almonds, stick 
them all over the pudding, make a hole in the centre with a 
spoon, pour into it two wineglasses of brandy, and a third over 
it. 

N.B. — If you boil in a saucepan, before you put in the 
pudding, place a small plate, tunied upside down, at the bottom. . 



i'LUM-rUi)l><:i A LA. TiCKLElOOTil. Ill) 

This will prevent it from sticking. If you use a copper, this 
precaution is unnecessary. Keep the saucepan, or copper, con- 
tinually boiling, and be sure to have plenty of water. This I 
(of course) consider the very best receipt in the world ; at all 
events, it is the result of forty years' experience, and may be 
valued as a good "study" for a young housewife to improve 
upon. 

As rhyme is sometimes more impressive than reason, to com- 
plete my examples on this subject I will give you 

A METRICAL RECIPE FOR A CHRIST3IAS PUDDING. 

Air — "Jeanette and Jeanot." 

If you wish to make the pudding in which every one delights, 
Of six pretty new-laid eggs, you must take the yolks and whites. 
Beat them well up in a basin till they thoroughly combine, 
And be sure you chop the suet up particularly fine. 
Take a pound of Avell-stoned raisins, and a pound of currants dried, 
^ ■ A pound of pounded sugar, and some candied peel beside; 

Rub them all up well togetlier with a pound of wheaten flour. 
And let them stand to settle for a quarter of an hour. 
Then tie the mixture in a cloth, and put it in a pot — 
Some people like the water cold, and some prefer it hot. 
But though I don't know which of these two plans I ought to praise, 
I know it ought to boil an hour for every pound it weighs. 
Oh ! if I were Queen of France, or, still better, Pope of Rome, 
I'd have a Christmas pudding every day I dined at home ; 
All the world should have a piece, and if any did remain. 
Nest morning for my breakfast I would have it fried again. 
Leigh Hunt's Journal. F. J. S. 

A PLAIN PLUM-PUDDING. 

Mix half a pound of stoned muscatel raisins (cut in half), 
three ounces of bread-crumbs, four ounces of flour, a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, two ounces of moist sugar, and 
seven ounces of finely-chopped suet ; then beat up the yolks 
and waites of three eggs (carefully removing all specks), and 
gradually add to them half a pint of milk ; put this into the 
pan with the raisins, &c'., and mix with a wooden spoon until 
you have formed a smooth thick batter; let this remain for 
half an hour in a well-buttered earthenware mould or basin, 
then tie a pudding- cloth tightly over it, put it into boiling 
water, and boil it three hours. 

3j|v Serve with melted butter flavoured with slftrry or va- 

^;-iiUle. 



120 . E DINNER QUESTION. 

PLAIN SUET PUDDING. 

^ Half a pound of flour, three ounces of beef suet chopped fine, 
two ounces of currants, or sultana raisins, mix to a thick paste, 
tie in a cloth, and boil an hour. 

BLACK CAPS, OK, COLLEGE PUDDINGS. 

Put the bcaten-up yolks and whites of three eggs into a 
basin with tv\'o ounces of flour, half a teaspoonfal of grated 
nutmeg, an ounce of candied lemcn-i^eel chopped in small pieces, 
and a quarter of a toaspoonful of grated ginger, mix well with 
a wooden spoon to a smooth batter, then add six ounces of beef 
suet (chopped fine), and six ounces of well washed and picked 
currants. 

Boil in a cloth an houV, or iu small cups (tied in a cloth) 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with melted butter, flavoured 
with Vvhite wine or a little rum. 

BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 

Beat into a smooth batter three tablespoonsful of fiour and 
a pint of milk, then add the beaten-up yolks and whites of three 
eggs ; boil in a well-buttered basin, with a damped and floured 
cloth tied closely over it, one hour and a half. 

Serve with melted-butter and sugar, flavoured with wine, 
rum, vanille, &c. &c. 

N.B. — All batter-puddings must be put into boiling water 
immediately they are made, or the flour v.ifl sink to the Lottom. 
Boil briskly. 

BOILED EICE PUDDING. 

Parboil (technically called " Su'ell") three ounces of rice in a 
pint of cold water ten minutes, strain quite dry, then, having 
well -floured a cloth, spread the rice over it, and put in the centre 
two ounces of well- washed and picked currants or sultana raisins, 
cover them with the rice, tie the cloth securely (leaving a little 
room for swelling), then put the pudding into boiling water, 
and boil an hour and a half. Serve with melted butter and ; 
sugar, flavoured with anything you may fancy. 

BAKED BICE PUDDING. 

"Swell" two ounces of well washed and picked rice, and six 
bay-leaves, in a pint and a half of milk, a quarter of an hour j 



DUMPLI^fGS. '' 121 

take out the bay-leaves, raid add to the milk and rice a smo- 
hatter composed of the yolks and whites of three heatcn-up 
e-;-.;s, an ounce and a half of beef or veal suet finely shaved, 
or the same quantity of butter cut in small pieces, two tea- 
spoonsful of arrowroot, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, 
and half a pint of milk ; mix well, and bake in a dish in a brisk 
oven three quarters of an liour. 

TLAIX KICE, C03ni0NLY called POOR jIAN'S TUDDIXG. 

Mix a tcacupful of v/ell-vrashed rice, a pint and a half of 
warmed milk, one ounce of chopped beef suet, two ounces of moist 
sugar, and a " grate" of nutmeg ; put the pudding into a well- 
buttered dish, and bake an hour in a brisk oven. 

A PLAIX I3KEAD PUDDIXG. 

Break into a basin the crumb of a French -roll, pour upon it 
a pint of milk, in which has been boiled two cloves, a small 
blade of mace, and two bay-leaves (remove the cloves, mace, and 
bay-leaves), then add the yolks and whites of three beaten-up 
egg^, two tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and the same quantity 
of well-washed and picked currants ; mix well, and bake in a 
well-buttered dish in a brisk oven three-quarters of an hour. 

A FAMILY BEEAD PUDDING. 

Soak an}^ pieces of bread you may have in the house in a pint 
of boiling milk, beat them up, and add to them anotlier pint of 
milk boiled, v/ith two cloves, a blade of mace, and a shred of 
lemon-peel ; then '•' mix in" the yolks and v^'hites of two beaten- 
up eggs, two tablespoonsful of currants or sultana raisins, put 
on the top of the pudding thin slices of bread and butter, 
sprinkled with currants, and a little grated nutmeg. Bake in a 
brisk oven an hour. 

YEAST, or. XOr.FOLK DU3IPLIXGS. 

Roll as much bread dough as you may require into small 
balls with your hands, drop them into boiling vrater, and boil 
for fifteen minutes. 

In Norfolk they are eaten with gravy before the meat, but 
the}' are equally popular served after it, with melted butter and 
sugar, flavoured with wine, &c. The butter-sauce may be ad- 
vantageously replaced by treacle. 



12- ^aE .Di>^Ell QUESTION. 

HAKD Oil SUFFOLK DUMPLINGS. 

Mix six ounces of finely chopped beef suet with a pound of' 
tiour and the whites and j'olks of two beaten-up eggs ; add just 
milk enough to " wet the dough," and put it into a " pudding 
poke" (a bag half a yard long and about six inches in circum- 
ference) ; tie up the end, and boil with salt beef or pork an hour 
and a half. Serve cut in slices, an inch thick, with grav3\ 
This dumpling is also used as an appetite damper at the com- 
mencement of the dinner, and is generally made without 
eggs. ^ 

It is often rolled into balls about the size of a Avalnut, and 
browned in the dripping-pan under roast meat, or added as 
" floats" like forcemeat, to stews and soups. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

]\rake a stiff batter of the beaten up whites and yolks of three 
eggs, half a pound of flour, a pint and a half of cold milk, a 
small teaspoonful of salt, and t^oo tahlespoonsfid of ale. Pour 
it into a shallow tin w^hich has been put to get hot under the 
joint that is roasting. 

In Yorkshire it is made firm, and always about half an 
inch in thickness (when done), but in the Southern Counties 
it is made tJiinner (lighter) and thicker. It will take two hours 
before a good fire. In the Yorkshire mode it does not need 
turning ; but wdien it is thick, as soon as it is lightly browned 
on one side, it should be turned on the other. This is best 
effected by dividing it in quarters. 

RO\YLEY POWLEY, OR BOLSTER PUDDING. 

To make this schoolboy's luxury, familiarly called "a dog in 
a blanket." — ]\Iix six ounces of flour and two ounces of finely 
chopped beef suet, with cold water, into a stift' paste. " EoU it 
out" twice ; then spread the whole surface with a quarter of a 
pound of raspberry or any other kind of jam. " Eoll round" 
into a pudding of about eight inches long and six inches in cir- 
cumference. Tie at both ends in a floured cloth, and boil an 
hour. 

CRUST FOR FRUIT AND MEAT PUDDINGS. 

Allow to each pound of flour six ounces of beef or veal suet, 
finely chopped, and half a teaspoonful of salt. J\lix smoothly 



CUSTAllDS, XSD EGG P0DD1XGS. 123 

with the tips of the fingers, pouring in gradually as much cold 
water as will form a stiff paste. " Roll out" ttoice with the 
same lightness of hand and rapidity as for pie-crust. 

APPLE PUDDIXG. 

Line a well buttered basin with the above paste (reserving a 
piece for the cover) ; put into it as many " cored" apples (be 
careful that they are of the boiling kind), the number of which 
will of course depend on the size, cut in pieces, as you may re- 
quire to fill it. Add a little minced fresh lemon-peel or two or 
three cloves, according to the size of the pudding. Cover with 
the reserved paste, pinching it carefully all round. Tie in a 
floured cloth, and boil from an hour to an hour and a half, 
according to size. 

When done, turn carefully into a hot dish, and cut a small 
piece out of the top of the pudding for the steam to evaporate, 
or it will be heavy. Put into the opening a piece of butter and a 
small quantity of moist or pounded sugar, and grated nutmeg. 

As apples vary much in their sweetness, you must be careful 
how you use your sugar. It is better to put in very little, and 
leave the provers of the pudding to sweeten to their own 
tastes. 

APPLE DUMPLIXGS 

Are made in the same way as puddings, the only diflerence 
being that each dumpling is formed with a single apple, peeled, 
but not cut open. It is usual to remove the core when served, 
and put in a small slice of butter, with a little sugar and nutmeg. 
Baked apple dumplings have many admirers ; they should be 
put into a moderate oven and turned frequently, for they are 
very apt to burn. 

BOILED CUSTAPvD OR EGG PUDDING. 

]Mix a tablespoonful of arrow-root or flour with a tablespoon- 
ful of cold milk and the beaten-up whites and yolks of four 
eggs ; gradually add a pint of hot milk, flavoured with a blade 
of mace and two cloves (removed, of course), three ounces of 
powdered white sugar, ten drops of the essential oil of almonds. 
Stir well with a wooden spoon ; boil gently in a well buttered 
basin or mould, tied in a floured cloth, three-quarters of an hour. 
• - Serve with plain butter sauce, a la Tickletooth. 



124 THE BIXNEll QUESTION. 

BOILED CUSTARDS FOR TARTS. 

Boil a pint of milk with a laurel leaf, a blade of mace, and 
about an ounce of lemon or Seville orange peel — take out the 
flavouring, and dissolve in the milk three ounces of powdered 
white sugar. Gradually add il^ie beaten-up whites and 3'olks of 
six eggs, mixed (to prevent curdling) with two tablespoons fui of 
cold milk. 

Put the custard into a basin which exactly fits the top of a 
saucepan, that has been previously put on the fire (half full of 
water), and is boiling. Stir continuaUy with a wooden spoon 
for twenty minutes, taking care to keep the water boiling. 
Fill into glasses or cups, grate a little nutmeg over each, and 
set them aside to cool. 

BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Border a pie-dish wath "flaky" or puff paste; make yoiu* 
custard in the same manner as for boiling, and bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes. 

BAKED PLUil PUDDING. 

Mix well in a large pan half a pound of muscatel raisins, half 
a pound of carefully picked and w^ashed currants, half a pound 
of bread crumbs, half a pint of boiling milk, half a pound of 
suet chopped fine, the yolks and whites of three beaten-up eggs, 
a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, an ounce of candied lemon 
or orange peel, and half a grated nutmeg. Bake in a slow^ 
oven, in a well buttered dish or mould, one hour. 

BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. 

Put three layers of very thin slices of bread and butter into 
a Avell buttered dish ; sprinkle each layer with currants and a 
little fresh or candied lemon peel. (T\vo ounces of the former 
and one ounce of the latter will be sufficient for the whole 
pudding.) 

Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk with two ba^'-leaves and 
a blade of mace ten minutes; then take out the bay-leaves and 
mace, and having in the meantime beaten up the yolks and 
whites of three eggs with three-quarters of a pint of cold milk, 
add the hot with an ounce and a half of moist sugar. 

Pour this oustard gently in at one end of the dish (to prevent 



PETIT PIES AKD TAHTS. 125 

the currants and lemon from being disturlDed) ; grate half a 
nutmeg over the top, and bake in a brisk oven three-quarters of 
an hour. 

RICE, BOILED IN THE IXDIAX FASIIIOX. 

AVash it well in cold water two or three times, then put it 
loose into a saucepan with a large quantity of hoilijig water ; 
boil very fast for twenty minutes. Strain through a colander, 
and pour over it a teacupful of cold water ; shake the colander 
until all the water is gone, then lightly shake the rice into a 
hot dish, let it dry for a few minutes before the fire, and serve. 

N.B. — Many English cooks, after straining the rice, replace 
it in the saucepan, and either cover it with the lid or a cloth, 
like potatoes, and set it on the hob to dry; but the method 
which I give, from Indian experience, will be found the best, as 
it makes the rice " rocky," which is the great point of "native" 
cookery. '"' Sticky rice, beat wife," is a well knov»'n Hindustanee 
maxim. It is not necessary to give more examples of " sweet" 
puddings, as the foregoing are quite sufficient for " foun- 
dations." 

FKUIT PIES AXD TARTS 

Vary only in the kinds of fruit employed, their crusts being 
made, according to taste, of either of the three pastes. I will, 
therefore, dismiss them, with a caution to be very attentive 
to their baking. The oven should be brisk, but not fierce, 
and the pies should be carefully watched and turned every ten 
onimdeSy or they will be burnt and spoiled. It is necessary to 
place a small cup, turned upside down, in the centre of the dish, 
to collect the juice, without which it will " bubble up " round 
the edges and be wasted. A little sugar should be sprinkled 
over the fruit, but abstain from the usual " half teacupful " of 
water, as it serves no purpose but to " stretch " and impoverish 
the juice. 

FLAVOURINGS FOR PUDDINGS AND PIES AND SWEET 
SAUCES. 

Essential oil of almonds, although a poison when taken 
otherwise than in minimum quantities, may be safely taken to 
the extent of a few drops. 

Vauiile, rum, brandy, as well as sherry, Madeira, Muscatel, 



126 THE inXXER QUESTION. 

and any kind of sweet or white wine, fruit vinegars, bay and 
laurel leaves (be carel'ul of the latter, for they are poisonous 
when more than one or two are used), orange-flower, and rose- 
waters, attar of roses (by drops), pineapple, lemon and orange- 
peels, fresh or candied, and every kind of sweet essence may be 
employed to flavour either the puddings and the pies or the 
butter sauce that is served with them. 

GENERAL KEMAEKS ON FRUIT PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Ever}'' kind of fruit, raspberries in particular, should be care- 
fully picked for insects, &c. ; gooseberries and currants should 
be topped and tailed ; plums should be wiped (not washed) ; 
many remove the stones, but it is an extravagant practice, and 
greatly impairs the flavour. 

As there are many kinds of apples which will neither boil 
nor bake, care should be taken in selecting them. They are 
generally peeled ; but when used for a family table, wiping with 
a soft cloth is sufficient. A few pieces of quince may be^ 
advantageously used to flavour apple-pies and puddings, but' 
they must be discreetly dealt with, or you may realize the 
Irishman's idea, and make your apple-pie or pudding " all 
quinces." Cloves should also be sparingly used. Lemon-peeL 
gives the most delicate flavour. '\ 

The quantity of sugar both for pies and puddings must" 
entirely depend on the kind of fruit employed. For instance, 
raspberries and currants require more than plums, and goose- 
berries more than apples. Khubarb and damsons are tarter 
than cherries or apricots. It is best in all cases to be under 
the mark rather than overdo the sweetening, and serve raw, or, 
as it is technically called, " live " sugar (either moist or 
powdered white) for the guests to sweeten to their own tastes. 
Treacle is often boiled with family puddings, and is ver}" much 
in favour, particularly with juveniles, poured over dump- 
lings, &c. 

OMELETTES. 

Although strictly belonging to the French kitchen, are be- 
coming so popular at our English tables, that the following 
plain receipts may be considered acceptable. 

The leading features of all e^/y pancakes, for omelettes are 
nothing more — must be lightness, freeness from grease, thick- 



O-MELETTES. 127 

iicss (if they are tliiu they'll be like Jack of Newbury's old hare, 
'' iiaughte but shoe leathere "), and a light brown appearance. 

To obtain this combination is by no means an easy task, 
particularly if attempted without the proper tools and clear in- 
structions for ^:>rt?2-ipulation. Let me try to remove the diffi- 
culties. First, let your pan be small, and, if possible, keep it 
for this purpose alone. Taking six eggs as your medium 
quantity,* you will see at once that if they are beaten up and 
poured into the large pan used for general purposes, the batter 
will spread all over its surface, and the omelette will not only 
be too thin, but very likely to be burnt. Purchase, then, an 
" omelette-pan " (they are known by that name at the iron- 
mongers), just large enough to contain (according to your likely 
requirements) six, nine, or twelve eggs at the utmost. Under- 
stand, however, that the batter must not cover the whole of the 
surface. Allow about two inches margin. This you can effect 
by slightly inclining the pan towards the handle when you pour 
in the eggs, and beating the ends to the centre with a fork ; 
the instant the batter is set, you can easily shake it into the 
centre of the pan. You will thus give your omelette its proper 
elongated form, and have space for turning, &c. The next 
essential tool is what is technically called a "salamander." 
This is a small iron shovel which is made red hot, and held for 
a minute or so over pies, puddings, and omelettes, to give a 
iinishing-touch to the browning; it is besides useful to com- 
plete the cooking of the parts that may have escaped the heat 
of the pan or the oven. For omelettes it is particularly useful, 
as their centres generally require additional heat. A thin slice, 
a three-pronged steel fork, a moderate fire, a light hand, and 
your hatterie de cuisine is complete. Warning you that you 
must bestow undivided attention on your work, or disasters will 
certainly happen, we will first attack a 

HERB OMELETTE. 

Beat well, in a basin, the yolks and whites of six eggs, and 
two tablespoonsful of cold water (the latter will dilute the eggs 

. * Brillat Savarin says: "If you wish your omelette to be perfect, never 
(however numerous your guests) let it be made of more than twelve eggs. 
it is much better to have two or three composed of that quantity than one 
<jf twenty-five or thirty, for in the latter case, instead of a light crisp ome- 
lette, you will produce nothing but a heavy, tough, leathery pudding." 



128 THE DIK-NER QUESTI01S-. 

and make the omelette more delicate) ; then add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful 
of chopped onion, and an ounce of butter or lard cut in small 
pieces. Mix well with a wooden spoon. 

Dissolve in your omelette-pan two ounces of butter or lard ; 
then tilt at once the beaten-up eggs, &c., into it, inclining the 
pan to the handle for an instant ; then shake the omelette into 
the centre, turn up the right and left edges, and fry quickly 
about five minutes, the exact time cannot be given, as it will 
greatly depend on the force of your fire and the size of the 
omelette. 

SWEET OMELETTES. 

These are prepared like the above, omitting the herbs, and 
adding, when ready to serve, pounded sugar, or preserves — 
when the latter are used, the best way is to spread them lightly 
over the surface in the 2>an, the instant before the omelette is 
taken out, and roll them up with it. Sugar is merely sprinkled 
over when served. 

On the Continent, rum is in great favour for flavouring, a 
little being used when the eggs are beaten up, and about half 
an ordinary wineglassful poured over. At the instant of 
serving, a light is put to the spirit, and the omelette appears on 
the table enveloped in " blue flames." 

OMELETTE SOUFFLEE.* 

Beat well the yolks (I will presently tell you what to do with 
the whites) of six eggs with four tablespoonsful of finely- 
powdered white sugar, and a tablespoonful of rose, orange, or 

* A Sovfflee, which may be described by a poetical cook as a substance 
of gossamer lightness tliat may almost float in the air, has long been a 
great triumph of the French kitchen, and is employed to "give an air" to 
the most extraordinary nothings. CarCme, in his Maitre cVHofel Francais, 
speaking of the exertions of the cook of Marshal Davoust during the siege 
of Hamburg, to vary the, by dire necessity, horseflesh dinners of his master, 
expresses supreme contempt for his contrivances, which he terras '\filets 
de bo'iif a la boot-heel,'" and " soiips a la u-ooden leg." AVhat would he 
say to the wondrous so^'fflees of some of the present " little great" hangers- 
on to the edges of his imperial apron, who form them of crystallized snow, 
the dew of violets (not onions), and the pinions of butterflies preserved in 
their flour ; indeed great efforts are being made by a new candidate for 
kitchen honours, to souffle, by a photographic process, a lady's smile, a 
lover's sigh, and a poet's imagination. '- 



l'A>'CAKES. 129 

elderflower water ; or., if other flavours Le preferred, plain water, 
and half the rind of a grated lemon, or two ounces of vanille 
sugar, chocoUite, coffee, or three or four pounded macaroon cakes 
— or, in fact, any flavouring essence that may be selected. 

Then whisk the six whites to froth, and lightly mix them 
(without too much incorporation) with the yolks. 

Dissolve four ounces of butter or lard in your omelette-pan, 
tilt in the batter at once, and, when one side of the omelette is 
set, take it out quickly and carefully with your slice ; turn it 
(the under side up) into a well-buttered dish (which will stand 
the fire), form it into a dome, powder it with sifted white sugar, 
set it in a brisk oven, and bake it from five to ten minutes, 
according to size. Eemember it must be served the instant it 
rises, which, if it be vrell made and cleverly cooked, it will do 
to a great height. 

The dish may be garnished with any kind of preserved fruit, 
jam, jelly, or marmalade. There is no end to the varieties of 
soujjiees. Some are made with rice boiled in milk or cream, 
others with cheese and arrowroot, or potato flour, &c. &c.; but 
the one example I have given is quite sufficient as a good 
foundation to work upon, the different articles used in the 
varieties being merely added at the last beating up. 

PANCAKES. 

I\Iix three tablespoonfuls of flour with half a j)int of milk, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a grated nutmeg, and a wine- 
glassful of good ale ; then beat up the whites and yolks of four 
eggs with another half pint of milk, and mix with the other 
batter, adding, if necessar}^ a little more milk to bring it to the 
consistency of good cream. 

Dissolve in a small fryingpan an ounce of butter or lard 
(butter is the best) for each pancake, and pour into it a teacup- 
ful of the batter, which will form itself into a thin cake over 
the entire surface. N.B. You must lift up the edges all round 
with 3'our slice, or they will burn. Fry quickly for two or three 
minutes, or till it is a light broiVK ; then tarn with your slice 
(experienced cooks "toss," but as that is a manoeuvre which 
requires great practice, it is safer to use the slice*), and fry the 
other side two minutes. 

* Apropos of amateur " tossing," the following anecdote of Napoleon's 
failure in giving the artistic twist may be appropriately quoted : •* The 

X 



130 TUE DI]!rNEE QUESTION. 

Set each before the fire in a hot dish until half the quantity 
of batter is used, then serve, and while the first three or four 
are being consumed, fry the remainder, as it is essential they 
should be eaten quite hot. 

They are usually served v.^Ith sprinkled sugar and a squeeze 
of lemon, but occasionally with preserves. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

These are generally made smaller than pancakes, with the 
same kind of batter and treatment, apples chopped in small 
pieces being the only addition. A little good cream with 
pounded sugar may be served with them. Currants and other 
fruits are sometimes substituted for apples. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter a mould or basin, and place in it layers of sponge- 
cakes, ratafias, or macaroons ; then fill up the mould with a 
lemon custard made with the yolks of eight eggs, a pint of 
milk or cream, six ounces of sugar, a glass of brandy, and the 
grated rind of a lemon. This custard must not be set, but 
merely mixed up. Cover the top of the mould or basin with a 
piece of buttered writmg paper, tie a cloth tightly over it, and 
steam for an hour and a half, either in a large potato -steamer 
or in a saucepan, with the water reaching about half-way up 
the mould or basin. Serve with custard, melted butter flavoured 
with wine, rum, vanille, pineapple, or preserves. 

MINCEMEAT A LA TICKLETOOTH, 

Half a pound of stoned muscatel raisins, half a pound of 
sultanas, and one pound of currants, well washed, picked, and 
rubbed dry ; six ounces of beef-suet, half the rind of a lemon. 

Empress Josephine Avas amusing herself one clay with her ladies of honour 
with the manufacture of an omelette, and at tlie most critical moment of 
the operation Napoleon entered unexpectedly. Seeing the embarrassment 
the Empress experienced in turning the omelette, he took the pan from 
her hand, saying. ' I will show you, maftowje amid, how to turn an omelette: 
this is the bivouac method ' — and at the same time he pave the pan that 
little twist so well known to all cooks ; but the disobedient omelette, instead 
of returning to the fryingpan, fell right into the fire, to the great delight 
of Josepliine, who, turning to her august spouse, said to him, with a cliarm- 
ing smile, ' Your Majesty is not at the bivouac now: you understand much 
better how to gain battles than to turn omelettes.'" 



MEAT PUDDINGS AND PIES. 131 

one ounce each of candied orange, citron, and lemon-peel ; two 
good-sized apples peeled and cored, and a quarter of a pound of 
lean and tender rump-steak. Chop all these as fine as possible, 
mix well, with two grated nutmegs, half a teaspoonful of grated 
ginger, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a 
pound of pounded white sugar. 

Put them into an earthen jar, and set it in a brisk oven for 
an hour and a half, turning and stirring occasionally ; then add 
a wineglassful of brandy and another of sherry ; stir well, cover 
close, and set the mincemeat aside (in the jar) in a cool place 
until you are ready to make your pies, w^hich may he formed 
with either of the pastes, according to taste. Butter some small 
tins, and cover them with a thin layer of paste ; then put into 
each a tablespoonful of the mincemeat ; cover with another layer 
of thin paste, carefully pinch round the edges, and bake in a 
brisk oven half an hour. 

This mincemeat wall keep twelve monthi?, if put aside, with a 
piece of bladder tied over the top of the jar. 

MEAT PUDDINGS AND PIES. 

Make a good suet crust according to receipt, page 122 (for 
pies use butter and lard, or suet, in equal proportions) ; butter 
■well your basin if for boiling, and line it with paste, keeping a 
piece for the cover. For baking, your dish does not require it. 
Put in the meat in layers in both cases, cut in pieces about three 
inches broad, and half an inch thick ; lightly season each layer 
■with pepper and salt mixed together. For boiling : cover with 
paste, pinch the edges, and tie tightly a cloth over the top of 
the basin, and boil from two hours to two hours and a quarter. 
For baking : place a thin layer of paste round the edge of youi- 
dish, extending half way into it; then put in the meat and 
seasoning and slices of hard-boiled eggs ; cover with the paste, 
and make a small hole in the top. Ornament the edge of the 
crust by "crimping" it with the back of your knife. 

For a centre ornament for fruit pies, hour well your board 
and roll out a small piece of paste as thin as a wafer ; then 
lightly fold it into a small compass, and pinch one of the ends 
together with your fingers ; put it into the opening in the centre 
of the pie, and cut it through with your knife four times across ; 
it will theu fall and form leaves. 
J 2 



132 THE DlVKKil QUESTTOX. 

The above receipt will serve for all kinds of mutton, beef, and 
kidney puddings and pies. 

TEAL AND HAM PIES. 

Cut tbe veal in pieces of about four inches square, and half 
an inch thick ; put it in layers in the dish with thin slices of 
uncooked hain, mild bacon, or pickled pork A little chopped 
parsley should be added to a seasoning of pepper and salt in 
equal quantities ; and a few slices of hard-boiled eggs. Bake 
according to size, in a moderate oven, from an hour to an hour 
and a quarter. A little stock gravy may be pou>ed into the 
hole (which must be made in the top) when about to serve. If 
you wish to make tlie pie very savoury, add a little veal stuffing 
(see receipt, page 137) made into small balls. 

TLAIX CHICKEX TIE. 

Cut off the neck, feet, and scaly part of the legs, the heart, 
liver, and gizzard, clean, and put them in a saucepan with two 
button mushrooms, a small shalot, a quarter of a pound of gravy 
beef, half a teaspoon ful of salt, and eight peppercorns. Let them 
stew in half a pint of water for an hour before you make your 
pie. Form your crast with flaky, short, or puff* paste, according 
to taste ; border the dish on the edges and half way down with 
it ; put a layer of bacon or ham at the bottom. Cut up the 
fowl and place the back (in four pieces) on the bacon ; strew over 
them a little chopped parsley and lemon-peel mixed with bread 
crumbs ; then put the breast (whole) in the centre, a leg at each 
end, and the wings at the sides, and fill up the corners with 
small rolls of thin slices of ham or bacon. Pour in the gravy 
you have made with the giblets, cover with your paste, make a 
small hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

CHICKEN TIE A LA TICKLETOOTH. 

Remove the giblets (as in the foregoing receipt) from a plump 
chicken, put it in a deep dish, and pour over it a quart of boil- 
ing water ; cover closely with a larger dish, and let it remain 
five minutes ; then put it on the cliopping-board, and, with a 
sharp knife, cut it up in the manner a boiled chicken is carved 
at table ; then put the pieces together, fill the interior with veal 
stuffing (for which see page 137), and put the fowl, which will 



CinCKEN A^D PIGEON PIES. 133 

appear not to have been dismembered, into a dish, bordered 
with either of the three light pastes, upon a thin slice of veal 
or rump-steak. Fill uj) the ends and crevices with slices of 
sweetbread Avhich has been boiled five minutes and lightly 
browned, and thin slices of ham ; cover with the paste, make 
the usual hole at the top, pinch round the edges, ornament 
according to taste, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

When done, have ready a savoury grav}' composed of a dozen 
button mushrooms browned, with an ounce of butter, and stewed 
twenty minutes with a small piece of chopped shalot, a shred 
of lemon-peel, to which must be added, a few minutes before 
serving, a dozen bearded oysters cut in two or four pieces ac- 
cording to size, two teaspoonfuls of flour mixed with the 
oyster-liquor, and a sprig of minced parsle3\ 

Cut the crust of the pie all round, take off the top, pour 
the gravy over the chicken, replace the top, and serve. Slices 
of hard-boiled eggs may accompany the sweetbread, and the 
neck, feet, liver, and gizzard should be stewed an hour, and the 
liquor strained from them added to the mushrooms while they 
are stewing. 

PLAIX PIGEON PIE. 

" Border" a dish (in the manner I have shown you) with 
flaky, short, or puff" paste, and put at the bottom a rump or 
well-beaten beef-steak about three-quarters of an inch thick, cut 
in three or four pieces (allowing a quarter of a pound to each 
pigeon). Place your two, three, or four pigeons upon the steak, 
with their breasts upwards, each covered with a thin slice of ham. 
"Sprinkle them with a seasoning composed of a teaspoonful of 
salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, a little chopped 
parsle}', and half a clove of shalot. Fill up the corners and 
crevices with slices of hard-boiled eggs ; pour in a teacupful of 
cold water, cover with the paste, and bring the feet of the 
pigeons thi'ough the hole in the centre. Ornament according 
to fancy. Bake, in a moderate oven an hour or an hour and a 
half, according to size. 

SAYOUPtY PIGEOX PIE. 

Having made your pie in every particular according to the 
above receipt, either fill the birds with button mushrooms 
.browned for ten jninutes with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, 



134 THE DIlinS^EE QUESTION. 

or veal stuflfing (see receipt, page 137) in which the livers (pre- 
viously boiled) should be chopped ; or you may mince thera with 
a small slice of ham, four button mushrooms, and a small piece 
of lemon-peel, rubbed well together with a little salt and cayenne 
and the yolks of two eggs. To give a pleasant form to this 
savoury adjunct, cut the hard-boiled eggs in two, long ways ; 
take out the yolks, fill the cavity with the stuffing, and close the 
whites over it. These savoury eggs should then be placed at 
the corners of the dish, to be cut when served. The remainder 
of the forcemeat should be put into the birds. 

An 03'ster cut in small pieces may be mixed with the stuffing 
in each egg, 

A TOAD IX A HOLE. 

Make a batter of a pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
a tablespoonful of ale, and the whites and yolks of two beaten- 
up eggs. Pour it into a deep dish, and put upon it a thick 
rump steak ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt, and bake in a 
brisk oven (according to the weight of the steak) about an hour. 

I have found that half cooking the steak on the gridiron 
before putting it on the batter is advantageous, as it not only 
adds to its crispness (on both sides), but prevents the pudding 
from being dried before it is done. The gravy should be care- 
fully saved from the gridiron, and be put on the steak when it 
is placed in the oven. 

A CORNISH llABBIT PIE. 

Cut off the legs and shoulders of a rabbit ; cut the back into 
four pieces. Split the head and stew it in a little more than 
half a pint of water, with a quarter of a pound of beef and a 
shalot. Put part of half a pound of pickled pork, cut in thin 
slices, at the bottom of the dish ; strew over them a chopped 
roasted onion and a little parsley. Then add a layer of the 
rabbit, filling up the vacancies with hard-boiled eggs ; cover this 
with a layer of the pickled pork, parsley, and eggs ; then another 
layer of rabbit. 

N.B. — Slices of turnip are frequently added to the eggs and 
parsley. Moisten with a teacupful of cold water ; and when 
done, which in a moderate oven will be in about an hour, cut 
round the top of the crust, and put into the pie the gravy made 
with the head, and half a pint of warm cream. The same kin4 



POEK XSI> GAME PiES. 13a 

of pie is made witli veal, slices of bacou, and leeks ; in fact, there 
is nothing, as they say in Cornwall, which " will not pie ;" and 
it is no uncommon thing to see them made of an olla j^odrida 
of fish, flesh, and fowl. 

CRUST FOE RAISED PIES. 

Put half a pound of lard into a saucepan, with three-quarters 
of a pint of water ; when it hoils, pour it gradually into two 
pounds and a half of flour which you have heaped together on 
your paste-board ; mix well with a spoon, and then knead with 
your hands till you have formed it into a stiff paste. Then roll 
it with your hands (not with the rolling-pin) into a sugar-loaf 
shape, put it upright on the board, then also with your hands 
flatten the sides of it. When you have equalized it all round, 
and it is quite smooth, squeeze the middle of the point down to 
half the height of the paste, then hollow the inside by pressing 
it with the fingers ; and in doing this be careful to keep every 
part of equal thickness. Then put in the meat in layers, and 
fill the corners and interstices with the forcemeat ; put on the 
cover, trim it with your knife, pinch the edges, crimp them, 
make a hole in the centre, and place round it any ornamental 
paste device your fancy ma}^ dictate. 

PORK PIES, 

Form your raised crust according to the quantity of the meat, 
which should be cut in small pieces about half an inch in thick- 
ness, and an inch square. It is advisable also to mix a little 
beef or veal with the pork ; put over each layer of meat (which 
should not be too fat) a sprinkling of seasoning made of pepper, 
salt, and a small quantity of dried or green sage. Bake it in a 
moderate oven an hour or an hour and twenty minutes, accord- 
ing to size. When done and nearly cold, pour in a gravy made 
of the bones stewed, with a little salt and a small onion. 

GAME PIES. 

" Raise" a crust to a size corresponding with the quantity of 
your game. Cut with a sharp knife the flesh from, the best 
parts ; keep each kind separate, and set them aside for a moment. 
Then split the heads, break the bones, and put them with the 
inferior parts into a stewpan, with a roasted onion, a carrot, a 



136 TUi: Dl^lsEll QUESTION. 

teaspoonful of salt, twenty black peppercorns, sprigs of winter 
savory, marjoram, lemon and common thj'me, two bay leaves, 
halfii clove of garlic, and half a pound of gravy beef. Stew in 
a very little water (according to the quantity of the meat, &c.) '; 
five hours. When done, skim and strain, and set it aside to cool. 
Line the whole of your raised crust Avith a thin layer of short ■ 
paste, then a layer of fat bacon or ham, cut in thin slices. Now ^^ 
put in your different kinds of game in layers (not round, but '. 
from the bottom), filling up the corners and crevices with hare 
forcemeat stuffing, according to receipt, page 138. Having mixed , 
together two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, 
and half a grated nutmeg, sprinkle a little of them over each '. 
layer. Livers may be chopped in small pieces and baked with ' 
the game, or mixed with the mincemeat. Finish the filling "'- 
■with a la^-er of the ham or bacon, put over it a layer of the 
short paste, then cover with the raised crust. Pinch round the ^ 
sides, ornament, by crimping, leaves, &c., according to fancy, ' 
and bake in a moderate oven an hour, an hour and a half, or two *" 
hours, according to size and weight. When both pie and gravy 
are nearly cold, put the point of a funnel into the small hole - 
(which, by the way, 3'ou must make in the top of the pie before 
you bake it), and gentl}^ pour through it the gravy you have 
prepared. 

N.B. — I have found it advantageous to lino the bottom of •'. 
these, as well as every other kind of meat, game, or poultry pies A 
with a moderately thick rump-steak. .'{ 

A word to the wise ! 

GIBLET ri£. 

Prepare the giblets in the same manner as for soup (see page 
75). The crust may be either flaky, short, or puff. Place a 'I 
rump or well-beaten beef-steak at the bottom of the dish ; put '^ 
the giblets in in layers, season each with pepj)er and salt, ' 
chopped onions, a sprig of parsley, and half a cluve of shalot ; ^~ 
add a few forcemeat balls of either kind of stuffing, moisten ^' 
with a teacupful of water or stock, and bake an hour. 

As fish, and all other " light crust" meat pies are made with 
but little variation from the foregoing receipts, it would be en- 
croaching too much on my space to particularize them. I will .| 
therefore conclude the pudding and pie " question" with a receipt^- j 
for a \Qry savoury " holiday" treat, ^i 



STLTFINGS. 13/ 



OYSTER PATTIES. 



Cover some small tins, tedmically called patty-pans, witli pnff 
paste, cut it round, and put iu tlie centre a small pie.e of bread 
(to prevent the top and bottom from collapsing), cover it with 
paste, slightly pinch the edges together, and bake in a brisk oven 

quarter of an hour. Then, having bearded and parboikd (which 
will take but three or four minutes) a dozen large oysters, cut 
them in quarters, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce 
of butter, a teaspooiii'ul of flour mixed w^ith their liquor, and the 
broth from the beards (which you must stew in a small sauce- 
pan, with a little stock gravy and two or three shreds of lemon). 
Season lo'ith a ven/ little salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
powdei-ed mace, and the same quantity of cayenne ; then gra- 
dually add three tablcspoonfuls of cream. ]\lix well; then with 

thin knife open the patties, take out the bread, put in a spoon- 
ful of the oysters and cream gravy ; put the covers on again, 
and serve hot. 

This receipt will serve for lobster and all kinds of savoury 
patties, the oysters of course being left out. 

STUFFINGS. 

As these are in constant use, and the flavour of the meats, 
&c., they accompany being greatly influenced by their good or 
aad construction, I will give you particular directions how to 
produce each kind. I will commence with 

YEAL STUFFING. 

Three or four sprigs of parsley, two ounces of beef suet, and 
small piece of lemon-peel, chopped fine; two teaspoonfuls of 
iried marjoram, one teaspoonful of common thyme, half a tea- 
poonful of lemon thyme, a teacupful of fine bread crumbs, half a 
;easpoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of black pepper, a 
prinkle of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix with a well- 
)eaten-up e^^. 

PORK STUFFING. 
Eoast a small Spanish onion, peel, and cliop it with a dessert- 
poouful of powdered sage, two tablespoon fuls of bread crumbs, 
, teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Mix 
ell, and moisten with two tablespoonfuls of walnut catsup. 



138 THE DINNEB QUESTION. 

HARE STUFFING A LA TICKLETOOTH. 

Boil the liver of the hare slowly five minutes ; roast a mid- 
dling-sized onion ten minutes ; then chop them with an ounce 
and a half of beef suet, two ounces of lean ham, a handful of 
parsley, a strip of lemon-peel, the quarter of a clove of garlic, 
two pickled mushrooms, and half a teaspoonful of French capers; 
add four tablespoon fuls of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt, 
the same of black pepper, and a quarter of a spoonful of cayenne, 
one teaspoonful of dried marjoram, the same of lemon and 
common thyme, and the same of tarragon vinegar, two table- 
spoonsful of walnut and the same of mushroom catsup. Beat 
up the whites and yolks of two eggs, mix well, put it in thg 
body of the hare, and sew the skin over it. 

N.B. — If the stuffing be too moist, add a few more bread ' 
crumbs. 

GOOSE STUFFING A LA TICKLETOOTH. 

Roast a large Spanish onion three-quarters of an hour, pee 
and chop it with two good-sized pared apples, and three mealj 
potatoes boiled and mashed; mix these in a large bowl witl 
one tablespoonful of dried mace, and the same of dried mar 
joram, both rubbed to powder; one teaspoonful of mustarc 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of moist sugar 
and another of pepper, a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne 
and six ounces of bread crumbs. Mix well together, and moistei 
with two tablespoonfuis of mushroom catsup, one teaspoonful o 
shalot vinegar, and three tablespoonfuis of strong stock. 

Put this into the body of the goose, and skewer it up. 

N.B. — Eoasting the onions for stuffing greatly improves 
their flavour. 



As I wish this work to embrace every section of the questioi 
it purposes to illustrate, I will leave for a moment the "Famih 
Kitchen," and turn to another most important branch of oui 
system of feeding. 

DINING OUT, 

(■ 

Or, as the French call it, en mile, which implies that wr 
either dine by invitation with our friends, or at a tavern o: 
some other place of public entertainment. 



LONDON DIKING ESTABLISHMENTS. 139 

The times when merchants and tradesmen lived at their places 
)f business, and dined v/ith their families at one o'clock on a 
)iain joint and a pudding, and their, clerks and shopmen 
jought half a pound of mutton-chop or beef-steak at a butcher's 
unci by, and cooked it for themselves on a gigantic common 
gridiron for a penny, which included salt at " discretion," or for 
in extra twopence they could have a thick slice of bread and 
couple of baked potatoes ;* these " good old times," when 
Templers" and other *' limbs of the law" were contented with a 
3asin of mock turtle, a cut of the joint, and a pint, or as it 
[flight be a bottle, of old port at Dicks' or the Grecian, and the 
ienizens of the West-end had no other public feeding-places 
ban the expensive coffee-rooms of large hotels ; these very 
steady " pig-tail " times have long since, like watchmen and 
3oach travelling, become curious matters of history. The mer- 
shant now dines at eight on three courses, in his mansion in 
Belgravia or at his villa in the country. The tradesman has 
his cottage at Richmond or Notting-hill ; and clerks and shop- 
men, despising the gipsy mode of feeding, take their dinners at 
[shaut's, in Bucklersbury, or at some other equally renowned 
" Dining Eoom," where for fifteen pence they can have a 
ufficing plateful of fine, well-cooked meat, bread, and vege- 
tables, with a slice of pudding or pie, a pint of porter, a " skim" 
at the Times, and '"thank you, sir," from the bland waiter for 
his customary fee into the bargain. 

Nowadays " Templers" more frequently dine at the West-end 
by the carte a la Fraucaise, at palatial clubs " en Prince'^ 

« '• The Fleece," in Old Threadneedle-street, two doors from Leman's, 
the famous biscuit baker, had a butclier's shop adjoining it, and it was no 
uncommon thing for a thousand chops and stealis to be cooked there in a 
morning, besides a large quantity of sausages and kidneys. No customer 
taking less than a pint of beer, the quantity consumed in the course of the 
year was enormous. 

So profitable was this system of dining to the landlords, that the pro- 
prietor of the " Excise Coffee Mouse," opposite the Excise-office in Broad- 
street, left it in his will that at the end of every seven years each of his 
children should in turn succeed to the business, as in that time they could, 
as he had done, retire with a fortune. 

At another well-known tavern, " The George and Vulture," in George- 
yard, Lombard-street, I have been told by an old gentleman, that about 
half a century ago any one taking half a pint of wine could walk into a 
room on the ground floor, and partake freely of the cold meat of the pre- 
ceding day, \vhich was set out on a large table for the purpose. This was 
"a sort of decoy to attract customers to the house, which had a great 
reputation for its soups and club dinners. 



140 Tlli: UIIS^EU QUESTION. 

As the " Eeign of Terror" introduced •*' plats de resistance' 
and potatoes " an nalureV into French cookery, so the Battl 
of Waterloo was the epoch for introducing entrees and soiiffl.ee. 
into our middle-class kitchens.* 

By slow degrees "' John Bull " became sobered down, anc 
was well content to swallow some of his anti-Gallicau prejudices 
and a succulent French dinner at the same time. 

Our countrymen, indeed, have not only for many years beei 
conspicuous as the chief supporters of the Parisian restaurants 
but have succeeded in beguiling from their allegiance many o 
the most talented of the French eJiefs, able and willing as w< 
are to pay " any money" for everything that France can pro 
duce. In short, we have been long aware of our inferiority iv 
the art of cookery, and wnth our palates propitiated and om 
eyes opened to the necessity of reform, we have had the goot^ 
sense to turn our foreign travel to advantage. 

In the establishments of our " grandees," of course the olc 
English plain roast and boiled onlj' wait on the more reclierch 
efforts of the French kitchen ; but our middle classes, however 
in their over-anxiety to be genteel, are too often too prone t< 
attempt, without either knowledge or proper appliances, t( 
make a display of dishes, Avhich, purporting in name at least ie 
be French, would sadly puzzle a Francatelli or a Soyer \k 
identify. 

Yet, although we are still far behind our continental friendi 
in the higher acquirements of the culinary art, we have 
managed successfully to grapple with some of its realities j 
witness the immense improvement of our club dinners, and 
the superiority of hotel cookery generally, to what it was a feW^ 
years ago, to say nothing of those more ambitious establisii- 
ments under the especial management of a French elief. 

To come down to places of more modest pretensions, w^ 
question whether there is in Paris a restaurant of its class t^ 
match with the " Wellington," in St. James's-street ; Simpson's, 
in the Strand ; or Sawyer's " London Dinner," in Fleet- street, 

* As some compensation for the injurious influence of the Revohition iii. 
its first stages upon cooker)', it is right to mention that it contributed ttf 
emancipate the ctddne from prejudice, and added largely to its resources. 
Pieces deresislcuice, says Lady .Morgan, on Careme's authority, came ii^' 
•with the National Convention — po.atoes were dressed an vatunl in th^ 
Reign of Terror — and it was under the Directory that tea-drinking com- 
menced in France. — HayivarcVs Essays, 



PAIilSIA:^^ EESTArEAIS'TS. 141 

liich we pavticularize as t3'pes of their class. In all these 
ouses, which are fitted up with all the elegance and comfort 
I their Parisian models, a better dinner can be had for less 
loney than in the close entresols and profusely mirrored 
jhns of the more pretending " Cercle des Etranrjers'' 
Diners de Paris," &c, &c., of the Palais Royal, the Rue 
ivienne, and the Boulevards, where, in spite of their volumi- 
ous carte, the " dishes of the day" are generally found to be 
ery limited in variety," and often far from satisfactory'' to an 
English palate. In fact, it may be safely predicted, that if we 
teadily pm'sue the course of culinary reform now happily 
Initiated in the more respectable and popular of our public 
efectories, that with our greatly superior viands and our 
;reater command of the fruits of the earth from our unbounded 
,'ealth, we shall ere long distance our rivals in this art, as we 
ave in so many others. 

The late Count d'Orsay, in a letter written a few years since, 
;ives the following classification and description of the then 
rincipal restaurants in Paris. The graphic sketch is now the 
Qore curious, inasmuch as it shows the transitory nature of 
gastronomic popularity ; for we find Very — the descendant of 
he world-femous Very of 1814, who contracted to supply the 
able of the Allied Sovereigns at the moderate sura of 3000 
iancs (£120) a day, exclusive of wine — is degraded to the 
econd class.* But let us hear Count d'Orsay himself: — 

" Paris, Slay 1st, 1852. 
" I mu>t confess that the culinary art has sadly lalien off in rari*, and 
do not clearly see how it is to recover, :!s there are at present no great 
:>tablisliments where the school can he kept up. At all the first class 
ef-taurnnts you have nearly the same dinner; they may, however, be 
ivided into three categories. Undoubtedly the best for a great dinner 
nd good wine are the " Freres Trovenoaux' (Pahiis Royal), " Pliilippes" 

The two brothers of this name once stood at the very head of the first 
lass, and so long as their establishmenr on the Tuilerics was left stand ng 
he name of Very retained its talismauic power of attraction, the delight 
nd pride of gastronomy — 

" Whilst stands the Coliseum, Rome shall stand ; 
And whilst Rome stands, tiie world." 

Jut when the house in question was removed to make way for the public 
rjuildings which now rest upon its site, the presiding genius of the family 
ieierted it. Death, too, intervened, and carried off the most distinguished 
)f the brothers. A magnificent monument was erected to his memory in 
Pere la Chaise, with an inscription concluding thus: — Toute sa vie fat coiX' 
Xicree aux arts utiles. — Uayicurds Essays. 



142 1?HE DINNER QUESTIOIf. 

(Rue Mont Orgueil), and the " Cafe de Paris ;" the latter is not always t 
be counted upon, but is excellent when they give you a soic/ue dinner.* I: 
the second chiss are Very (Palais Royal), Vefours (the "Cafe Anglais"), an^ 
Cliampeaux (Place de la Bourse), where you can have a most conscientiou 
dinner, good without pretension ; the situation is central, in a beautifi 
garden, and you must ask for a bifdcl: a la Chateaubriand. 

" At the liead of the third class we must place Bonvallet, on the Boul? 
vard du Temple, near all the little theatres ; Defreux, chiefly remarkabl 
for public dinners; Durand, Place de la Madeleine; Ledoyen, in th 
Champs Elysees, where is also Guillemin, formerly cook to the Duke d 
Vineennes. The two best places for suppers are the " Maison d'Or," an 
the " Cafe Anglais;" and for breakfasts, Tortoni's, and the " Cafed'Orsay, 
on the Quay d'Orsay. In the vicinity of Paris the best restaurant is th 
" Pavilion Henri Quatre," at St. Germain, kept by the old cook of th 
Duchess de Berri. 

" At none of these places mnld you find dinners now such as wer 
produced by Ude ; by Soyer, furaierly with Lord Chesterfield ; by Rotiva'. 
with Lord Wilton ; or by Perron, with Lord Londonderry. 

" I must not forgot to mention the two great contractors for dinner 
and suppers ; these are Chevet, of the Palais Royal, and Potel, of th 
Boulevard des Italiens. 

" The best possible materials may be procured at these establishments 
but the dinners of Chevet and Potel are expensive and vulgar — a sort o 
tripotage of truffles, cocks'-combs, and craw^-fish mounted on the back of 
fillet of beef, and not a single entree which a connoisseur can eat; th' 
roast game always tourmente and cold, for their feathers are stuck O' 
again before they are served up. 

" You are now an fait of the pretended French gastronomy. It ha 
emigrated to England, and has no wish to return. We do not absolute! 
die of hunger here, and that is all that can be said." 

This Avas tlie state of the most celebrated dming-houses u 
Paris m 1852, since v^'hen they hav^e all pretty nearly retaine* 
the same relative positions. But a multitude of smaller esta 
hlishments of a much lower grade has meanwhile sprung u] 
(particularly during the time of the Great Exhibition) in ever 
quarter, and in most of these bad cookery and bad material; 
struggle for the mastery. But we must except from thii 
censure '*' Tavernier's," " Moreau's," and " Kichefeu's," in the 
Palais Royal, where the charge is two francs for soup, foui 
dishes (at Tavernier's and Richefeu's only three), dessert, half ^ 
bottle of wine, and bread at discretion ; there are no othei 
places in Paris where for that price (I will say nothing of the 
thirty sous houses) a hungry man can get anything like._s 
satisfactory or sufficient dinner. 

As an almost universal rule, the small plate of soup is thin 

* The " Cafe' de Paris" was closed in September, 1356, but its place Is 
well supplied by " Vachettes," on the Boulevard Montraartre, which is 
making rapid strides to come up with " Philippes." - 



T\YO-FJElAI^C PALAIS ROYAL DIlN'iN'ERS. 113 

and flavonrless ; the wine reveals its log-wood consanguinity 
by making a black stain on the table-cloth. Your first dish, 
a fried sole, is merely a diminutive dab, fried to a chip, or they 
give you about two inches of plaice covered with a little cloudy 
paste called " tiirbot a la sauce;" your second dish, your 
-plat de resistance," a hifstelc " aux pommes de terre," three 
inches of some unrecognisable kind of brown meat (" where 
ignorance is bliss," &c. &c.) done to a cinder or scarcely warmed 
through, the potatoes being the only endurable part of the dish; 
vour third, a " poulet aux cressons," the drum-stick of a warmed- 
up fowl (these houses buy up all the " left" legs of the large 
establishments), garnished with two or three sprigs of water- 
cresses. By this time you are very anxious for som.ething really 
eaiable, in order to appease your appetite, and when the fourth 
dish is to be produced, 3-ou hesitate between macaroni ate 
(iratin, as being tolerably substantial, and civet de lievre au vin 
de Madere : but, on seeing a portion of the latter served up to 
a fellow-countryman at a table near you, and which appears not 
objectionable, in a fatal moment you make choice of that, and 
attack it with gusto, until looking up by chance you see an old 
gentleman, seated opposite, watching you with a strange look of 
pity, you pause, and ask for an explanation; he bows, shrugs 
his shoulders, and politely replies, "Monsieur has not been long 
in Paris, or he would not venture on that dish !" " Why not?" 
you say, with rising misgivings. " Merely," replies the old 
gentleman, with a mysterious look of aversion at your plate, 
" that the hares cooTced in these cheap establishments have in 
general shoH ears, and are apt to meiv." 

Your dessert is an apple or a pear, or a beggarly melange, 
most appropriately styled " mendians," consisting of four 
almonds, four raisins, four Barcelona nuts, and four very small figs. 

This is a fair sample of the two franc Parisian dinner so 
eagerly sought after by our cockney excursionists on their first 
arrival ; but after one or two trials they cannot fiiil to discover 
that the fare of an ordinary dining-room in England is immeasur- 
ably superior, and they are consequently soon driven to 
" Byron's," in the Place Favart, where they can get a " cut of 
the joint," too glad to exchange " make believe" dinners for 
something wholesome and substantial. 

Owing in some measure, no doubt to a little continental 
experience, the young men of the City nowadays display no 



ll^f THE r)iNN']:j; (^i:ESTr()>'. 

wdnt of critical acumen in discussing the stereotype viand<\ 
prepared for their delectation and sustenance, at the more' 
humble dining establishments ; in these, you will hear a " fast" 
young fellow with an incipient moustache, from a ship-broker's 
or a banker's, say depreciatingly to the damsel in attendance, 
"Now, Sarah, my dear! do you call this a stewed steak?" 
turning over with his fork the very pale cutlet of a watery hash.' 
"It ought, you know well enough, to be brown, plump, and 
tender, with lots of thick flavoury gravy, besides carrots, mush- 
rooms, and onions, and not a sickl}', consumptive, Avarmed-up 
slice of yesterday's cold ribs ; you can't deceive me, Sarah, you 
little gipsy ; so bring me half a plate of roast goose, with plenty 
of stuffing and apple-sauce; and tell old Kidney bean from me, 
if he does not educate his cook up to the knowledge of his 
customers, he'll come to grief, for the men of the present day 
have travelled, and know a thing or two in the cookery line 
never dreamed of by their fathers." 

Besides the London "dining out" establishments I have 
named, there are hundreds of other excellent and well-conducted 
luncheon and dinner-houses of every grade in every quarter of 
the great metropolis, particularly in the neighbourhood of Corn- 
hill and the Mansion House, whose skilful cookery and atten- 
dant comforts in the appropriate decoration of their rooms and 
their table-service are daily becoming more conspicuous ; as an 
example I ma}^ mention Simpson's " fish dinners," in the 
Poultry (removedfrom Billingsgate), where, at the '' table cVhote," 
both at one and at four o'clock, for eighteen-'pence, you have 
three or four kinds of the freshest and best sorts of fish, and as 
many joints, all plainly, but well cooked, together with bread, 
butter, cheese, and celery ; and one of the best features of the 
establishment is, that you are not expected as a matter of course, 
b}' the usual hint of a wine-glass being placed beside you, to 
drink for " the good of the house ;" and although supplies at 
hand of Bass's pale ale, Guiness's stout, and pine-apple punch, 
are of tempting quality, you may drink water if you please, 
and leave the table with the cheese. This, although quite un- 
pretending, is perhaps the cheapest good dinner in London, for 
everything brought to table is as excellent in quality as it is 
in its cookery. , 

Until within the last few years a comfortable, well-served, 
and withal genteel tahle-d' hote at a moderate cost was not to b9 



LOM>OK DIMNG-HOTJSES. 145 

fi)und in all London. Shilling ordinaries at one, or at the latest 
two o'clock, where the fare consisted of our proverbial '"' ^oi*y 
joints" and badly cooked cheap fish, served on a second day's 
tablecloth, with steel forks, and leaden spoons, in a dingy room 
with a sanded or sawdust-strewed floor, garnished with spit- 
toons, and reeking with the fumes of stale tobacco, were the 
only attempts at social dinners in public, and their frequenters 
were nearly all coarse feeders of a vulgar stamp, careless of 
everything but the quantity of meat and pudding they could 
swallow for their shilling. But now, having seen how much 
better '' the}'' manage these things in France," we have reformed 
our " ordinaries" with other things, by banishing the sand, the 
spittoon, the tobacco reek, and the coarse, ill-dressed fare, for 
the best of everything in season, plainly 3^et skilfully cooked, 
and served in a properly ventilated, well-furnished room, replete 
with comfort. The result is, that instead of being patronized 
by o«e. class as formerly, various grades are mingled at these 
public places of resort ; the clerk, the merchant, the lav/yer, and 
the '' man about town" from the West End, may be seen elbow- 
ing each other at the ever-crowded table, and not seldom ex- 
changing civilities with the ease and freedom of manners of 
pur more social neighbours. 

The Wellington in St. James's-street takes higher ground, 

and invites the patronage of a more wealthy, and in culinary 

matters certainly a better informed class of customers. The 

dinners are divided into four grades : — 1st, a la carte, up to 

whatever price you please ; 2nd, " The French Dinner" ioxjlve 

.shillings ; 3rd, '•' The English Dinner" for three shillings ; 4th, 

the "joint and vegetables' for tioo shillings. The dining- 

.room is large and lofty, the attendance and table service un^ 

exceptionable; all the French dishes are to be depended uporty 

/and the quality and cookery of the joints, fish, and poultry of 

the English kitchen, are equally commendable. After dinner 

you can ascend to the drawing-room (once '' Crockford's" grand 

saloon), which is well supplied v/ith newspapers and periodicals, 

and take your coffee. 

"I , " Sawyer's London Dinner," in Fleet-street, follows the 

'Wellington in its style, but confines itself to but two divisions 

.of its entertainment, viz.. The joint and vegetables, cheese, 

;3,nd salad for eighteen-pence ; fish, soup, and entrees a la 

carte; and The London Dinxer, consisting of two soups — 



146 THE DI^-^'ER QUESTION. 

two fish — two entrees — joints — two sweets — cheese and salad^ 
for haJf-a-croioii, attendance three-pence each person. 

This bill of fore will bear comparison v/ith the best that can 
be oflered in Paris for the same price, and when it is considered 
that every dish is of the finest quality, and everything- con- 
nected with the establishment is of the first class, it may be 
naturally inferred that " The Loudon Dinner " does not lack 
customers. 

At Simpson's, in the Strand, there is but one dinner, but 
that is a right good one, and fully deserves its high reputa- 
tion. 

The charge is tioo shillings, for the joint, two kinds of 
vegetables, bread, cheese, butter, and celery. Fish and soup 
may be added for another shilling, and a few well-composed 
made-dishes a la carte. This is par excellence the dinneii 
OF THE DAY. Its fare is purely English, and those who have 
once had a cut at its " saddles " or " surloins, turbot or salmon," 
never fail to come again. 

Colfee-room dinners at two shillings, and three-and-sixpence, 
are also to be had at the " Cafe de I'Europe," next door to the 
Hayraarket Theatre. The choice wines and the good cookery 
at this establishment promise to secure for it as great a reputa- 
tion as " Yachettes," on the Boulevard Montmartre, at Paris, 
vhose cuisine and cellar it professes to rival. 

The restaurant of the St. James's Hall is taking a good 
position among the English French houses, treading closely on 
the heels of Regent-street Very. 

Evans's under the Piazza of Covent-garden still holds its 
place for '' chop " suppers, which with its theatrical portrait 
gallery* and superior musical entertainment, nightly draw 
crowds of the best company in town. 

In the neighbourhood of London (to match the Pavilion 
Henri Quatre at St. Germain) we have " Highbuky Baex," 

* Tliis is a very rare and interesting collection of all the "celebrities'' 
who have "fretted their brief hour on ti.e stage," from the time of 
Garrick down to the presmt day. It reflects great credit on the taste and 
*' e.^'prit <lu corps" of tiie worthy proprietor, Mr. Green, who has expended 
a large sum of money upon ir ; but it is a jrreat satisfaction to him 
wlien he looks upon Jhe '-counterfeit presentments" of iiis old friends, 
and the revered master-spirits of the dramatic art, to say in the words of 
Charles .Surface, in the School for Scandaly " Here I sit of aa eveiuDf 
surrouuded by my family." 



SU}3UEi3JLN- DI^'I^'G-HOUSES. 147 

the time-honoured hostelrie dating from the reign of Queen 
Anne, and celebrated for its " Corporation " and " Company" 
feasts. Here the City hon vivanis still delight to congregate, 
and are in no way displeased to find the '' foreign travel " of its 
proprietor has given him ideas in French cookery which are by 
no means at variance with their views of the march of improve- 
ment. 

At the Crystal Palace, good and cheap dinners are also to 
be obtained ; while the " Star and Garter," the " Castle," and 
the " Roebuck," at liichmond ; the " Trafalgar," the " Crown 
and Sceptre," and the " Ship," at Greenwich ; the '•' Bruns- 
wick," at Blackwall ; " Waite's " and the " New Falcon," at 
Gravesend, are names which will live in '*' Little Dinner " and 
" White-bait " story, and convince our " lively neighbours " 
that we can cook something beyond a joint of meat and a 
pudding. 

By the foregoing descriptive details of " Tavern Dining-out," 
I have endeavoured to show how great has been our recent pro- 
gress in that department of ••' plain cookery," that it may be 
placed in strong contrast with the old-fashioned, unimproved, I 
may almost say, retrograding state of family kitchens. 

Surely if our public cheap eating-houses can keep pace with 
the times, the same amelioration should find its way into our 
private establishments, yet the old evil still remains. 

The culixaey art is but little undeestood, and, 
consequently, geeatly undeeyalued by the geneeality 
OF ENGLISH HOUSEKEEPEES, which is the more astonishing, 
.when on every side they turn, they must see, from the superior 
manner in w^hicli every article of domestic consumption is pre- 
pared for the market, and the numberless novel appliances of 
steam-ranges, gas and charcoal stoves, hot plates, &c. <tc., and 
a host of cleverly contrived kitchen implements and utensils, 
that a new era of gastronomy and cookery has dawned upon 
us. 

I will now suppose that, having profited by my instructions, 
the "lady of the house" is competent to superintend the 
arrangements of her kitchen, and is anxious to display her new 
accomplishment by giving a little unostentatious dinner to a 
small party of her friends.* To enable her to carry out her 

;£ :*. For a " set dinner" for a large party, although it does not come strictly 
within the range of the present work, it may he recommended to follow as 



148 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

intention without either parsimony or luxurious excess, I will 
endeavour by a few useful hints to point out what the guests 
will expect at her hands, and how she can best minister to their 
comfort and satisfaction. 

For these ends there are several very important points to he 
considered : first, the number of persons to be entertained; next, 
what extent of expense may be incurred ; then, how is the dinner 
to be served ; and lastly, how is your table to be arranged and 
lighted. Let us take each point separately. 

Eight or nine should be the limit of the party, for if you 
should exceed that number, it generall}^ happens that, instead 
of an agreeable flow of conversation and easy mutual interchange 
pf ideas among the guests for the advantage of the whole com- 
pany, coteries are formed, making all beyond their small circle 
a desert, and resisting the united efforts of the vexed host and 
hostess to lead their members into general sociality. 

Especial care should be taken to avoid all "flints and steels," 
collisions likely to occur between persons who are at enmity, or 
are opposed in political sentiments. Nothing is more hazardous 
to the harmony of your party than inattention to this rule. 

Avoid " bores" of every kind, the parliamentar}-, the literary, 
and scientific varieties above all ; and do not, as many eccentric 
persons often do, congregate oddities together, A party com- 
posed of one-eyed or humpbacked men and women cannot pass 
off" satisfactorily ; neither can a reunion of bluestockings or 
" inspired idiots" of any class be productive of anything pleasant. 
Observe, therefore, the happy medium; eschew "lions," and ask 
none but those who are likely to assist in promoting a well- 
tempered general hilarity, so that each guest may have his fair 
share both of the general enjoyment and the satisfaction arising 
from contributing to it. 

Endeavom- also to secure more than an equal proportion of 
ladies, for it may be taken as a general maxim that no dinner 
is so pleasant as that which is eaten under the harmonizing 
influence of female society. 

Never, from the fear of giving too little, be led into giving 
too much ; neither, as is too frequently the case for the sake of 
making an imposing show, crowd your table with "kickshaws" 

closely as possible the bill of fare -and general arrangement detailed in the 
letter of" G. H. M." at page 8, as it is scarcely possible to produce anything 
better for the class to which it appeals. .; 



SIXTS OX DINKEK-GIVIXG. 149 

and side- dishes (often very costly), wliicli in all probability will 
never be touched. Have enoiujli for your party, and no more. 
By following this golden rule, you will never have to lament 
over wasteful expenditure ; besides which, by having but few 
dishes and sauces to prepare, you will be able to give them 
better attention, and nothing (which is too often the case) will 
be done " anyhow." 

The absurd pride of feeling it necessary to " avstonish the 
Browns " when a party is given, is a great check to genial 
hospitality, while it entails on the silly entertainer more expense 
than he can afford, to say nothing of the toil that attends the 
preparation, and the mortification that follows the failure of the 
unsatisfactory display. 

The late Lord Dudley truly said, ''' A good soup, a small 
turbot, a neck of venison, and an apricot tart, is a dinner fit 
for an emperor." Let, then, your dinner be based on this 
principle, for in proportion to its smallness ought to be its 
excellence both as to the quality of its materials and its 
cooker}'. 

Without j)roper "appliances and means to boot," it is mad- 
ness to attempt entrees and entremets. A simple, inexpensive 
dinner well cooked and served will be certain to give more real 
satisfaction than the most elaborate and costly banquet produced 
under difficulties and put on table amid bustle and confusion. 

With good management and patient drilling, everything 
for a small party can he cooked and served by two female 
servants, and you will thus be spared the annoyance of the 
usual '■' butler " for the nonce in the person of an occasional 
waiter, who is generall}' a small greengrocer in white cotton 
gloves, who comes to his work in "mellow mood," and gets 
fairly half seas over before the dessert is put on the table, his 
fixed belief being that his especial mission on earth is to drink 
the bottoms of bottles (often the tops), and to stagger about 
among the guests with a vase of ice, portions of which he will 
insist on thrusting with a long spoon into your glass, or missing 
it (which often happens), over your arm, whether it be required 
or not. 

The arrangement and lighting of your table call for the 
exercise of much of your taste and judgment. Your table 
should not be too broad nor too profusely ornamented ; be sure 
in the cold season to have a good screen before the firej let the 



150 THE dt:n^ner questiox. 

tablecloth, napkins, plate, and every article of iise or ornament, 
be scrupulously clean, fresh, and bright. Have a fewreaZ. 
flowers in tasteful, delicate vases in the centre of the table, and 
place by the side of each guest three wineglasses : for sherry 
or Madeira, claret, and hock ; the latter should be coloured. If 
you give champagne, substitute either the long or broad glass it 
is the fashion to use for it, for the claret or hock glass. 

Do not crowd your guests, for nothing is more annoying to 
them than to have to use their knives and forks with their 
elbows pinioned to their sides; it is also inconvenient for the 
servants in changing plates and offering dishes. Endeavour as 
far as possible that ever}'- accessory of your dinner be placed on 
the table before your dishes ; for the want of this foresight, I 
have known salmon and turbot grow cold while waiting for 
lobster sauce, and lamb and ducks become the vassals of their 
vegetables. Do not send round bread or " cruets," but have 
both on the table v/ithin reach of every one, for many often " do 
without" rather than give trouble. Let wine also be plact?d 
within easy reach, on both sides of the table, for it is very un- 
pleasant to ask for it to respond to a challenge ; and perhaps, 
after waiting, glass in hand, for it being brought to you from 
the farthest end of the table, to find it slierry, when you want 
hock or champagne. 

Do not fill up the centre of your table with too many large 
ornaments, such as vases and epergnes of artificial flovvcrs, and 
heavy candelabra, for they often so divide the party that you 
can scarcely see your second neighbour, while those on the op- 
posite side are totally invisible. 

If 3^ou have any delicacies to offer, do not, because " it is 
fashionable," delay their appearance until the appetite of your 
guests has been satisfied, or at all events blunted by a variety of 
solids. . I have known partridges " picked," grouse, woodcocks, 
and wild ducks scarcely tasted, and pheasants sent away un- 
touched, all of which, if they had been served at an earlier period 
of the dinner, would have been resolutely attacked and keenly 
relished by the whole company. The excuse for this barbarity 
is, that to provide enough to make them the suhstantial part 
of the dinner v/ould be too expensive. This may be true in 
reference to a grand banquet lor eighteen or twenty persons ; 
but for small parties, depend upon it, if you serve your game or 
any other of your especial delicacies ver}" soon, if not imme- 



HI^'TS OS DOXEE-GITI^'G. 151 

diaiely after your fisli, your guests will swallow the afTront 
without for an instant reflecting on your taste for leading them 
out of the " pale of fashion," particularly if you complete the 
atrocity by allowing light wines to appear with them. 

In set dinners you ynust run on the usual grooves, and give 
punch after tui'tle, and dry Madeira, o. la Talleyrand, after every 
other soup ; Burgundy with rotis, claret Avith grouse, &c., re- 
serving champagne, as Francatelli recommends, according to the 
custom in France, " until the latter part of the second course, 
as by that time the palate has become more fit to appreciate the 
delicate bouquet of this delicious and exhilarating beverage," 

To have everything '•' hot and hot," directly it is taken from 
the fire, is a luxury that can only be enjoyed at small parties ; 
let. then, each dish and its proper ver/etahles appear simulta- 
neously ; — we will sa}', fur instance, after a few minutes' pause 
(which wall materially assist digestion), while the soup-plates 
are being taken away and the glass of sherry or Madeira is going 
round, the cook dishes the " delicacies" or the substantial por- 
tions of the dinner, and sends them up so '•' smoking hot" that 
when the covers are removed the " aroma,'' " fumet," 
" houquet^' or savoury odour of each, may give a zest to the 
appetite which is totall}^ lost when they are served a laFrancaisey 
by being placed on the table with the soup and fish, or cut up 
at a side-table and handed round in portions, a la Russe. 

To see our dinner in its integrity' in all its parts, is an Eng- 
lish comfort we still cling to ; and although it may involve a 
little trouble to the host in the carving, lam convinced, though 
a few travelled or fashion-loving exclusives may pretend to 
prefer '•' service a la Russe," with a menu, " neatly written in 
a lady's hand," to guide their choice, the majority of rational 
diners must feel much greater satisfaction in beholding their 
host, and hostess also, carving the smoking saddle, haunch, or 
sirloin. I say hostess advisedly, for when ladies have learned 
this very useful accomplishment and are not afraid to exhibit it, 
they lend a grace to the operation ; and moreover, as all diners- 
out at tables where a lady "carves their {'palates) destiny,'* 
can avouch, by the peculiar nicety and neatness of the slices they 
dispense, greatly add to the individual comfort and general satis- 
faction of the guests. No jagged, uneven, clumpy, veiny pieces, 
superabundance of fat, or forgetfnlness of gravy ; no backs and 
drumsticks of poultry, no carelessness of any kindj in fact. 



152 THE DINXER Qt'ESTlOK. 

nothing can be more true and valuable than the advice an old 
dinner-giver, who understood the art in all its phases, gave to 
his son on commencing housekeeping : — 

" Let j'our wife learn to carve, my boy, for it is an accomplishment 
■which will enable her to secure you a host of friends ; for the man who 
knows that his little gastronomic partialities are remembered and will be 
delicately ministered to by the lady of the house, will always be anxious 
to find himself at your table." 

A " liver wing" of a chicken, a couple of succulent slices from 
the breast of a goose or a turkey, a cut of the haunch or sirloin 
just done enough, dexterously carved, and sent with a hospitable 
smile, conveying, " I know you like that part," to each indivi- 
dual whose taste it will gratify, have cemented many friendships 
and made the plainest dinners Apician feasts. 

Think of this, ladies, and lose no time in qualifying for the 
important office of "grand carver." You can try your 
" 'prentice hands" on 3'our family dinners, and with a very little 
attention and practice will be soon able artistically to " hit the 
joint," and make the most of everything that comes before 
you. 

I give the same advice to gentlemen, particularly to those 
who are nervous or bashful in society ; they should learn to 
carve at ariy cost, for to men who dine out it is as much a 
matter of necessity as learning the polka or the figure of the 
quadrille. If you wish to spare yourselves many wretched 
moments, make yourselves carvers ; you can never escape being 
called upon at some time or other to dissect something, and the 
fear that it may be a goose or a hare is ever at your heart ; 
next to being called upon to return thanks for the ladies (by 
the way, if you are not blessed with oratorical powers, study u 
some pretty flowerets, and keep them ready for accidents), and ^^ 
making an oration on the occasion of glasses being drained ■:^ 
to your own health and prosperity, it is the greatest bore in the td 
world. 

Mr. L. F. Simpson, in his clever translation of Brillat- 
Savarin's Phi/siologie clu Gout, whimsically, but at the same 
time with great truth, observes — 

" The unfortunate man who has had the honour of taking down the lady 
of the house to dinner is like a culprit going to execution. He has a pre- f 
sentiment wlien going down-stairs that he will have to carve two fowls .'a 
smothered in white sauce : he is .seldom deceived, and gets no dinner until .40 
the third course."' 



HOW DIVXER TABLES SKOUL]) BE LIGHTED. 153 

To court rather than to shun the articulation of the wings of 
a pullet or the breast of a partridge, and when asked, to grapple 
with the sinuosities of a hare or a goose, to attack them with a 
certainty of subduing them without splashing the gravy, turning 
the edge of the carving-knife, overwhelming yourself with per- 
spiration and confusion, your host and hostess Avith agitation, 
and the whole company with terror or laughter, should be the 
accomplishment of every man who wishes to dine out with 
comfort to himself and, what is equally important, usefulness to 
his entertainers. 

Finger-glasses (although when applied to their original in- 
tention are cleanly comforts) are frequently so disgustingly 
abused that they should be banished from all civilized tables,* 
A little rose-water may, however, be handed round on a silver 
saucer or a glass vase, in which the corner of the napkin may 
be dipped to wipe the fingers and mouth. 

On the best mode of lighting a dinner-table there are many 
opinions. Should the light be on the table or over it, or 
should rays be thrown upon it by strong reflectors from the 
walls ? 

Let me, to justify my opinion, which is in favour of the 
illumination being on the table, quote the testimony of a most 
reliable authority, the writer of an article in Frasers 3Iagazine 
for April, 1859, entitled " Russian Dinners:" 

" The lighting of the dinner-table is always a matter of importance. 
Light and enjoyment ever go together, while discomfort at the dinner-table 
is as surely wedded to the darkness visible that is sometimes inflicted upon 
a miserable set of unofiending fellow-creatures by a parsimonious or ill- 
judging entertainer. 

The light should be as much as possible concentrated on the table ; and 
in a small party it will be desirable to shade the eyes of the guests by 
semi-transparent reflectors of some kind, which will tlirow nearly all the 
light on the table. This, of course, only applies to lamps ; the more 
diff'iised light of several candles requires no such caution. In some rooms, 
including the famous dining-room of the late Mr. Rogers, the light has 
been made to proceed from lamps arranged with opaque reflectors in front 
of pictures on the wall, so that no direct rays shall enter the middle of the 
room from the lamps ; and the room is lighted by the rays reflected on the 
surface of the pictures, and from these again reflected into the room, so 
that the pictui-es themselves are the apparent sources of illumination. 

* It is said of Brummel, who was particularly sensitive on this subject, 
that on a servant presentinar him with one at the conclusion of a grand 
dinner, he declined it, saying, while he fixed his eyes on a gentleman 
opposite who was audibly gargling his mouth, " Xo, thank you ; I cleaned 
my teeth and washed my mouth before I came out." 



154 THE DIKNEE QUESTIOy. 

This naturally woukl onl/ be done ■with works of art of tlip hi<:hest 
ch ructer, and ^ucli us can .alio ril to challenge criticism in the couversaiiou 
•\\iiich is sure to turn upon them. But witli all dtference to great 
authorities, we hold that the presence of such pictures in a dming-room at 
all is a mistake, and the mistake is aggravated by making them con^ 
spiciious objects for attention. 

Tlie proper study of the dining-room is dining, and whatever tends to 
divert the eyes from the table is wrong in princii)le. 

As in a tlieatre, where the looks of the spectators should be riveted by, 
every artifice upon the scene of performance, so in a dining-room should 
all the accessories of necessary furniture be subordinated to tlie great 
object which occupies its centre. Here there can hardly be too much light. 
Tlie table and the faces of the guests round it alone demand attention, 
and for them the greatest amount of iliumiwaiion should be reserved. 

How to obtain this general Wght is the great desideratum. 
Everybody who is in the habit of giving dinner-parties feels it 
is a great difficult^', and all kinds of expedients are resorted to 
to arrive at some perfect method. Gas is of course entirely 
out of the question, especially in London, now the companies 
are consolidated and stringent agreements are necessary to be 
made, upon which the supply can at any moment be cut 
off. 

Lamps are exposed to more casualties even than gas : the 
very best will sometimes prove untractable, and should they go 
out, leave very unpleasant reminiscences of their motive pov.'er. 
Vv'ax has consequently been long in the ascendant as affording a 
clear, steady, controllable, uncasualty-liable light ; but it has two 
disadvantages — it is expensive, and (unless a great number of 
candles are used) not sufficiently brilliant to impart that warm, 
genial, sunlight glow which is so much prized and so difficult 
to secure. Within the last ?e\x years, however, a " new light " 
has appeared, which is gradually making its way, and bids fair, 
when its properties become better known, successfully to rival, 
if not eclipse, time-honoured wax. I allude to Price and Co.'s 
" Belmontines," or patent sperm candles, which possess every 
quality that the dinner giver wishes to combine in the illu- 
mination of his table, viz., elegancy' and delicacy of appearance, 
immunity from accident, brilliancy, and, which is a very strong 
feature, saving of cost, for the plaited wicks being closer and 
firmer, and the material from which the glycerine has been 
expelled more luminous in its effect than wax, a lesser quantity 
is found to suffice. By reducing the number of lights, more- 
over, the temperature of the room is greatly benefited, as each 
flame necessarily throws out a large amount of heat. 



PEICE AND CO/S CA^'DLES. 155 

Added to their superior illuminating quality, the " Belmon- 
tines " are very ornamental, from their long slender shape and 
from their transparency^ affording a strong contrast to the 
short, thick, opaque wax candles in general use, which being 
large in diameter, are certain to flicker and flare with the 
slightest breath of air, while the flame of the " Eelmontines " 
being stronger, and concentrated in a narrower space b^- its 
intensity, repels everything but a strong current. I would 
therefore recommend you to light your table with them placed 
upon it in light candelabra, the sockets of wliich being 
generally made large for wax, can be easily reduced by a cork 
with a hole cut in it to the size of the thinner candles. The 
French, who are always on the alert to avail themselves of 
anything that can improve their dinner comforts, have already 
discarded their four to the pound wax bougies, and adopted the 
form, although they have not been able to arrive at the 
brilliancy and transparency of the new English material. The 
rapidly-increasing popularity of these candles is proved by the 
following extract from a lecture delivered before the Society of 
Arts by G. F. Wilson, F.E.S., son of the original proprietor, 
and the present manager of the Belmont Works : 

; "In the montli of October, 1S40, from which time I can speak from 
personal knowled.sre, we employed 7 1 men and 10 boy.-, and manufactured 
about 20 tons of cocoa-nut candles, value £l'2-37. In the corresponding 
month of 1855, we employed 10!)S men and 1191 boys and girls, and 
manufactured of stearic and composite candles and night lights about 707 
tons, value £79,500, in the month." 

This leaves no doubt of the utility and perfect success of the 
invention, which, but for a patriotic bias in the decision of the 
"Council of Presidents," would have received {as awarded hy 
'the Jury and Group of Juries) the first instead of the second 
class "3Iedaille dlionneur" at the Paris Exhibition in the 
Palais de V Industrie * 

■v>f:* Mr. "Wilson, in the course of his very interesting lecture (published by 

IW. H Smith and Son, 136, Strand), after dilating on the early struggles 
with and subsequent triumphs over numerous diificultics wliich attended 

• the progress of his discoveries, says : " Connected witii the manuf:ictin-es 
of the company are the endeavours which luive been made to raise up a 
set of improved and contimted work-peo;)le, originated by my brother and 
managed by him, aided by liberal grants from the Company. I rejoice to 

:.i3ay, that the educational and improvement work is going on most happily 
in our London factories, and in our recently established colony on the 
Jlersey — the Xew Bromboro-Pool Works." Thus, in addition to the 



150 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

The next point to be considered is, the b&st method of serving 
your dinner. Here a great deal of forethought and manage- 
ment are necessary, in order that you may have everything in 
its projjer place, at its proper time, and in proper condition. 
Simple as these words may appear when written, in what a 
"mass of reticulated meshes" do they involve the dinner-giver, 
should any of the requirements they involve not " run smooth." 
Who has not seen a poor hostess, with flushed face and anxious 
eyes, trying hard to smile and appear happy, while she is nearly 
distracted by the carelessness or impertinence of the cook, and 
the awkwardness of the bewildered Susan, who is everywhere 
where she should not be, and does everything she ought not 
to do. 

The host also comes in for his share of annoyances ; the best 
of husbands and mildest of men have been known to exchange 
anything but kind glances with their partner in misfortune 
when cold plates have been brought for the hot turkey, and 
sweet pudding sauce has been given by mistake for plain butter 
for the salmon. How m.any moments of torture have been 
endured by the corkscrew being mislaid, and the filling of the 
cruets having in the hurry been forgotten ! How many 
Jawkins's have struck consternation into the bosoms of their 
entertainers by asking for absent currant jelly or bitter beer ; 
and how fatal has been the influence not only on the success of 
the dinner, but the comfort of the entire company, by bad 
management of the fire and the lights, and inattention to the 
suppression of draughts of cold air from the door and windows ? 
Let, then, every lady who would make sure of her dinner going 
off without mishaps, personally superintend every detail con- 
nected with the arrangement of her table, her dining-room, and 
her kitchen ; let her draw out a plan of the table, and mark on 
it the spot where every dish is to be placed, and shoio Jane and 
Susan how to act in concert. With a very little good and 
careful drilling it is astonishing how cleverly the whole affair 
can be managed. As an example of what can be done with few 
hands, if the mind of the master or the mistress he given to it, 
I will quote the bill of fare for a party of twent}^ every dish of 
which was cooked at home, and served by two female servants. 

general benefit arising from a very valuable invention, Mr. Wilson and hig 
colleagues have been enabled to sow the seeds of goodness amid a part of 
the community whose welfare is too often neglected by their employers. 



A PLAI^"^ E>'GLISH DINKEK. 



157 



It affords a good illustration of substantial English fare blended 
with just sufficient of the French kitchen to give it piquancy 
and lightness. It may serve as a model for inexperienced enter- 
tainers to form smaller dinners upon : — * 





First Course. 




CuiTied Lobster. 


Turbot. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Salmon. 

Entrees. 


Stewed Eels 


Stewed Pigeons. 
Lamb Cutlets. 
Tomato Sauce. 


Potatoes. 
Second Course, 


Curried Rabbit 
Beef Olives. 


Koast Ducks. 

Potatoes. 
Boiled Fowls. 


Fore-quarter of Lamb. 
Bacon and Beans. 

Sirloin of Beef. 
Third Course. 


Koast Fowls 

Peas. 
Tongue. 


Blancmange. 
Currant Tarts. 
Jelly. 


Cream Pudding. 


.Jelly. 
Easpberry Tarts 
Blancmange. 



Salad. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

All Fruits in season, and Dried Fruits. 

Pine Apple. 

Cream and Water, Ice. 



Wines. 

Hock, Champagne, Sparkling Hock, and iloselle, Port, 

Sherry and Claret. 



* This well composed and excellent dinner was given by Mr. Benjamin 
AVebster, the highly respected actor and proprietor of the New Royal 
Adelphi Theatre, on the occasion of his being elected President and 
Governor of tlie Drury Lane Theatrical Fund, founded by David Garrick 
for the support of aged and infirm actors and actresses. Mr. Webster is 
also the President of the lioyal Dramatic College, another benevolent 
theatrical institution, which was originated by him, and owes much of its 
prosperity to his untii'lng efforts to befriend his poorer histrionic brothers 
and sisters. 



158 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

As a contrast to tliis plain Englisli entertainment, and at th,f 
same time to show the great reliance now placed by the foreign 
cooks (particularly those who have conducted any of our 
establishments) on our national dishes in the composition of 
their dinners, I will quote from ''Haj/ioarcVs JEssays' the blll- 
of-fare of a grand French banquet, given to Lord Chesterfield 
on his quitting the office of Master of the Buckhounds. It took 
place at the Clarendon, was ordered by the late Count d'Orsay ; 
the party consisted of thirty, and the price was six guineas 
a head : — ' 

First Course. 

Soxips — Spring ; ii la Heine ; Tuutle. 

Fhh. — Turbot, with lobster and Dutch sauces; Salmon a la tartare 
(cutlets broiled with sharp sauce) ; Trout k la Cardinal ; fried Cod ; 
Whitebait. 

Removes. — Filet de Boeuf a la Napolitaine ; Turkey a. la Chipolata; 
Tiniballe (a mould or saucepan in which anything is baked with a crust) 
of Macaroni ; Hau>ch of Venison. 

Side Dishe.'i, or Entrees. — Croquettes de Volaille (minced poultry with a 
bread-crumb coating); Oyster Tatties; Lamb Cutlets, Puree (pulp) of 
Mushrooms; Lamb Cutlets v.ith asparagus points; Fricandeau of Veal, 
with sorrel; Larded Sweetbreads, with tomato sauce; Figeons a laDusselle- 
Chartreuse de Legumes auxFaisans, (this is a mixed preparation, consisting 
of vegetables symmetrically and tastefully arranged in a plain mould, the 
interior of which is filled with game, &c. ; in this instance it was pheasants); 
"i^//e^.s" of Ducklings a la Bigarrade ; Puddings a la Richelieu; saute de 
volaille aux trufies (cutlets of poultry lightly fried in butter with truffles); 
Savoury 3iutlon Pate. 

Side Dishes. — Koast Beef ; Ham ; Salad. 

Second Course. 

lioasU. — Capons, Quails; Turkey Poults ; Gkeen GoosE. 

Side Di he.<<. — Asparagus; Haricot Btans a la Francaise (with cream); 
3Iayonn;!ise d'Honiard (lobster salad) ; Macedoine Jelly ; Plover's Eggs with 
aspic jelly ; Charlotte liusse (this is composed of " lady's-finger" biscuits 
placed in a moidd and tilled with fruit or preserves, iced, and garnished 
wi.h whipped cream) ; Maraschino Jelly ; JIarble Cream ; CorbeiMe (fancy 
basket) of Pastry; Vol au vent de R' ubarb (rhubarb tart, Avith very ligh^ 
puff-paste); Apricot 'J'art ; Corbeille of -Aleringues (light cakes garnished 
with whipped cream) ; Dressed Crab; Gelatine Salad ; Mushrooms, with 
sweet herbs. 

liemores. — Vanille soufle ; Nesselrode Pudding ; Adelaide Sandmches; 
Cheese Soufle ; Savoury Patties, &c. &c. 

The number of dishes of which the dinner is composed willj . 
I have no doubt, strike man}^ of my readers with astonishment, 
and probably some thrifty housewives ma}- moralize over the 
quantity of " garnish" that must have been entirely wasted; 
but this is but a simple luncheon compared with some of the 



lii:FOKM IX DINXER-GIVi^G. io'J 

gorgeous repasts at the Albion in Aldersgate- street, the London 
Tavern, and the Trafalgar at Greenwich, where occasionally as 
much as twenty guineas a head has been paid ; indeed, in the 
days of the late Sir William (Jurtis, it is said that the enormous 
charge of forty guineas a head has been incurred. All dinners 
of this description are silly mistakes, as they are not given for 
the sake of hospitality^ but for ostentatious display ; to send a 
special messenger to Westphalia to choose a ham, to the West 
Indies lor turtle, to New York for canvas-backed ducks, or to 
Florence for ortolans and beccaflcoes, seems an act of pure 
insanity; yet such extravagances have been recorded, and at this 
very hour equally reprehensible follies are indulged in, not only 
for tavern feasts, but for private dinners, where very large suras 
are often paid for delicacies out of season, merely to show that 
the entertainer's purse can bear the cost. How much better 
would it be for all classes to give their dinners for their proper 
objects, and entirely abandon empty display in all its branches. 
Instead of a crowd of servants, v»dio by their numbers impede 
rather than promote the comfort of the guests, why not be con- 
tented with a i^ew v;ho are well trained, and have sharp eyes and 
quick ears, and let nothing be put on the table which does not 
form part of the hodj/ of the diiiner. 

Let but one great Amphitryon " take the bull by the liorns," 
and show that even at a grand banquet it is possible to enter- 
tain liberally without senseless extravagance ; and although the 
number of the dishes may be reduced fi-om the ordinary stan- 
dard, by the cook's talent being concentrated on a few chef' 
d'ceitvres, the delicacy of the cookery will be increased, and ecevy 
dish will become an "object of interest;" this would at (mce 
remove the evils so long complained of; and none but vulgar 
upstarts would attempt to outvie their neighbours by ostenta- 
tious and wasteful display. 

The influence of this gastronomic revolution at great tables 
•would rapidly extend to those of the middle-class ; and then, 
instead of a dinner-party being a source of great trouble and 
anxiety alike for the preparation and the expense, and looked 
upon as one of the evils attendant on a'comfortable position in 
society, it would become, from its moderate requirements, a 
pleasa'it social gat lering of friends, who, by showing them- 
selves pleased with their entertainment, would make their host 
and hostess happy in the success of their unpretending efforts 



160 THE DINNER QrESTION. 

to combine the true elements of hospitality, good cheer, and 
mutual sociality. 

I will not attempt to direct you in the choice of the dishes 
you should provide for your party, as their number and cost 
must entirely depend on your means ; but lest you should, in 
your ignorance of the seasons of the various good things at 
your disposal, think of giving pork in July, or ducks and green- 
peas at Christmas, I will subjoin a table of the seasons of 

EVERY KIXD OF MEAT, FISH, POULTEY, GAME, VEGETABLES, 
AND FKUIT. 

JANUARY. 

Winter is the most agreeable season of the year to the lovers 
of good cheer ; and January is one of the months most favour- 
able to it, being the period when family parties are generally 
prevalent, d.\\^ nearly every land of 2^rovision,meat especially, 
is in fall season, green and young vegetables and fruit excepted. 
This month, from the copiousness of its supplies, needs no list. 

FEBRUARY. 

This month has little occasion to envy its predecessor ; game 
perhaps may be less plentiful, but it has lost none of its good 
,qiialities ; and every description of poultry is still in prime 
order ; spring chickens and ducklings may be added to the list, 
although their prices are in general beyond the means of thrifty 
housekeepers ; cod is getting a little on the wane ; and salmon 
is beginning to make its appearance. 

MARCH. 

In this month there is a slight decrease in the flavour of beef 
and veal, and mutton is beginning to be replaced by house lamb; 
pork, however, is still in its prime ; game is loosing its flavour, 
and is preparing to take wing ; cod continues to decline, but 
oysters, lobsters, crabs, crawfish, prawns, shrimps, turbot, plaice, 
skate, eels, flounders, soles, whiting, and every other kind of 
sea and liver fish, excepting mackerel, are still in full season and 
flavour. In addition to the winter vegetables, seakale is now 
plentiful, hinting the approach of asparagus. 

APRIL. 
" Come, gentle Spring," sings the gourmand, longing for 



THE SEASON'S. 161 

early vegetables; and heartily doth he hail the advent of 
showery April, for now many of tlie ^rimeurs, or harbingers of 
summer, ave forced to appear in the market. Lamb is rapidly 
displacing mutton ; pork still keeps its ground, although the 
sometimes warm breath of spring gives warning that its reign 
is drawing to a close ; game is getting out of season ; chickens 
and ducklings are now plentiful ; cod, knowing that oysters, 
its saucT/ satellites, are about to vanish, has vathdrawn his 
head and shoulders, politely making way for mackerel, which 
towards the end of the month begin to make their appearance ; 
salmon, although still dear, is daily increasing in quantity in 
the market, and promises shortly to be within the reach of " the 
million." 

MAY. 
With the flowers which usher in this montli, so dear to the 
poets, come most of the summer vegetables ; first asparagus, 
then potatoes, then the " emeralds of the kitchen," green peas, 
summer cabbages, broccoli, cauliflowers, lettuces, young onions, 
and carrots, small salad, cucumbers, and kidney beans ; mutton 
is getting "woolly;" and beef, which, thoLigh alwai/s in season, 
is now a little in the shade ; while veal courts the sunshine, in 
^vhich grass lamb now revels with all its youthful attractions; 
pork, to use a sporting x^hrase, is beginning to be "nowhere." 
Although here and there a leveret may be seen, game is quite 
out of season, but its place is well supplied by chickens, capons, 
fowls, pullets, pigeons, ducks, ducklings, and green geese. 
Mackerel and salmon are now within the reach of the thrifty 
housewife, who has still at her disposal carp, chub, eels, crabs, 
crayfish, John Dory, flounders, gurnet, brill, haddock, halibut,' 
herrings, lobsters, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelt, soles, 
trout, tarbot, and whitings. 

Ehubarb now betokens the advent of green gooseberries ; and 
currants, forced cherries, strawberries, raspberries, and peaches 
are now plentiful. 

JUNE. 

This,^ in spite of all that has been sung and said in praise of 
blooming May," is the most genial month of the whole year, 
for the sun is of dazzling brilliancy without sultriness, and every- 
thing not only holes, but seems io feel, gay. Beautiful month ; 
9,nd yet a distinguished gastronome has ventured to assert ii^ 

I. 



162 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

print that it is the most miserable one in the calendar to a dinner- 
giver ; for from so many delicaeies being out of season, he is 
compelled to feed his company on vegetables ! 

There is no denying that many of the superior kinds of fish, 
excepting salmon and " whitebait," which latter delicacy we 
are warned by the circulars of the Greenwich, Blackwall, and 
Gravesend tavern-keepers, is " now in season," are not so plen- 
tiful nor so prime in quality. To make up for the absence of 
game, venison is plentiful, and turkey poults, ducklings, green- 
geese, chickens, capons, and fowls, with leverets, too, " woo the 
spit," and wait upon the young vegetables, all of which are now 
in their best days. 

JULY. 

In this month butcher's meat is not so much cared for as in 
the winter season, while ham and bacon, in mercantile language, 
are '"' looking up ;" green peas, now in their zenith, suggest 
rashers ; and young broad beans, which are beginning to show 
themselves, naturally turn us towards the streaky ribs or well- 
smoked gammon. Poultry is plentiful, and salmon is cheap, 
but mackerel are preparing to take leave. Fruit of nearly 
every kind is now in full season; and vegetables, although 
many of them have lost the bloom of youth, are still attractive 
in their maturity. 

AUGUST. 

Butcher's meat is still " at a slight discount," but every kind 
of poultry continues to be plentiful and in good condition. 
Game is now beginning to make its appearance, and quails, 
wheatears, leverets, wild ducks, wood-pigeons, and wild rabbits, 
are, after the twelfth of the month, followed by grouse and 
black-cock. Mackerel go c[uite out this month, and oysters 
come in on the fourth. Turbot, soles, skate, brill, salmon, 
shrimps, prawns, crabs, crayfish, John Dory, lobsters, mullet, 
trout, eels, and flounders, are also in good season. Peas are 
going, and beans of every kind are succeeding them. Stone , 
fruits are now in full season, and at the latter end of the month 
cob-nuts and filberts come in with a iew foreign walnuts. 

SEPTEMBER. 

This month, which in England is, according to the Times, de- 
ry}ted to "^SL Paitriiige," restores butdii?r'>- mpnt to ite popu- 



THE SEASONS. 163 

larity, while partridges, hares, grouse, Llaok-cook, and venison 
begin their reign. Porlc also puts in an appearance. Fish 
continues the same as last month. Whitebait, however, which 
immediatel}^ after the ministerial dinner grows larger and larger, 
now forsakes its bread and butter. The same fruits as last 
month, with the addition of English walnuts, which come in 
about the middle. 

OCTOBEK. 

This month is pleasantly ushered in by pheasants, and now 
that the spring and summer vegetables are gone, we have in 
their places, artichokes, sprouts, winter spinach, and truffles. 
Fish is generally plentiful, and cod, turbot, brill, crabs, John 
Dory, eels, gudgeons, cockles, haddocks, mussels, oysters, 
salmon-trout, shrimps, smelts, soles, and whitings, are all in 
prime season. Every kind of meat is now in demand, the game 
season is at its full, and poultr}^ begins to grow dear. 

Grapes, apples, pears, and dried fruits replace wall fruit, and 
plums are only represented by damsons. Walnuts are still 
good, and filberts and cob-nuts are in their prime. 

NOYEMJiEll. 

This month brings us up to the winter season, the days draw 
in, but dinners are greatly lengthened, there are so many good 
things to discuss. With the exception of salmon, mackerel, and 
whitebait, every kind of fish may be now said to be in prime 
season. Game is plentiful, and in fidl flavom'. There is a 
great falling off, of course, in fruits and vegetables ; but store 
potatoes, winter spinach, endive, celery, and sprouts make a good 
show. A great variety of foreign fruits flow in to enrich the 
dessert-table — delicious Jersey pears?, French plums, raisins, 
&c. &c. 

Early in this month sucking pigs come in, and on Lord 
Mayor's day, mince pies foreshadow plum-pudding, and sprats 
make a noise in the Avorld, 

DECEMBER. 

This is the cardinal month for feasting and goodfellowship, 

and he who does not welcome its approach with joyful feelings, 

must have a very poor heart indeed. Scarcely has November 

run its courso before preparations are made for the great fete 

l2 



1G4 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

of all classes, Christmas-day — poultry is fattened, the ingre- 
dients for the pudding are purchased, arrangements for the 
dinner party discussed. What packings in the country, and 
unpackings in town ! Slembers of '• Goose Clubs " are to be 
seen in flocks carrying home gigantic birds. Morel, and Fort- 
num and Mason, are unable to execute half their orders for 
" truffled turkeys," Strasbourg pates, and all the thousand other 
100)2 ders of the (/astronomic repertory. In short, in this 
month the tocsin of "war to the knife" is sounded in all 
quarters against everything that swims, flies, and grazes, or is 
pickled, preserved, potted, and pied, or collared and kippered. 
With its manifold enjoyments are associated the compliments 
of the season, so, Avith the wish that every succeeding Christ- 
mas may bring to every home increase and comfort, 1 wuU con- 
clude m}' calendar. 



The time has now arrived to give m}'' promised examples of 
FREXCIi COOKERY. 

Strange though it may appear, the Trench pre-eminence in 
cooker}'- is comparatively modern, and may be traced to Eng- 
land ! but it is nevertheless true ; the comfort of the English 
taverns and coffee-houses, which came into vogue towards the 
end of Queen Anne's reign, and reached their apogee during the 
days of the second George, was so extolled by every traveller 
who had partaken of their solid hospitality, that at last a great 
gastronomic mind burst through the shackles of prejudice and 
routine, and gave to Paris what it had long wanted, a public 
dining establishment, where a good dinner could be enjoyed in 
the midst of good society, without the diner being compelled to 
shake hands with any one, nor eat anything which was not 
quite agreeable to his palate ; in short, a place where a man 
could choose his dinner, and be always sure, whether it was a 
moderate or an expensive one, of having it well cooked and 
well served. The name of this national benefactor, for such he 
deserves to be called, was Lamy, and he opened his modest 
salon in one of the dark and narrow passages leading to the 
Palais Ptoyal, towards the end of the year 1774. Over his 
doov he had the following ii]scriptiou in kitchen Latin : — 



rrtENcii COOKERY. 165 

Vfls qui stomaclvo lahoratis, accurite, 
Et ego vos restaurabo. 

O you, -whose empty stomachs moan in pain, 
Come to me, and I'll restore you again. 

Vv'hence was originated tlae name of Restaurateur. Two years, 
however, before this time, in 1772, tahles-dlwte were provided 
by the traiteurs-rotisseurs, who then only kept public kitchens 
for cooking and sending cut dinners, vdiich were composed 
either of articles supplied by themselves, according to order, or 
of meat, game, poultr}", fish, &c. &.C., sent in to them from 
private houses to be cooked, both of which customxS, by the way, 
exist in Paris up to the present time. The establishment of 
these tables- d'liote was also the result of a happy idea. One of 
the iraiteurs having a large commodious room attached to his 
kitchen, thought he might turn it to advantage by giving a 
public dinner at a fixed hour, for a small price, to those of his 
customers Avho, from a press of business, or any other cause, 
could not conveniently go to their own homes to dine. The 
idea was a good one, and it prospered, so it was adopted by his 
brother traiteurs, and in a very short time tahles-d.lioie of 
every grade became popular ; but it was reserved for Lamy to 
make the great leap to fortune by introducing dinners a 
VAiiglaise d la carte, which at once, as the French phrase 
it, put every man "dans sou assiette," or proper position, by 
enabling him to choose the dishes which pleased him, and 
enjoy in the midst of a lively crowd the privacy of his own 
house. As in everything else, perfection is only arrived at 
by sloAv degrees, and great patience and exertion ; Lamy at 
the commencement of his enterprise had a hard battle to 
fight ; the Avhole body of the traiteurs conspired against him, 
and compelled him to confine himself to the strict letter of 
tlie municipal laAv, which, besides obliging him to open and 
shut his doors at particularly inconvenient hours, and keep a 
register of the names and addresses of every one frequenting 
the house, levying heavy duties on the wines and provisions 
consumed on the premises, prohibited the use of silver spoons 
and linen cloths, and exacted that every article he served in 
his '"eating shop" should be upon tables covered Avith green 
or jasper-coloured oil-cloth. 

Still he struggled on bravely, and finally triumphed ; the 
municipal re;itrictions were removed, the " eating shop " was 



106 THE DINNER <,)1;EST10N. 

called a restaurant, he made a princely fortune, and retired 
to make way for Kobert (the inventor of the famous sauce), 
13eauvilliers, Bechamel (another great " saucier'), and at a 
later time Careme, the fame of -whose genius spreading far 
and near, made the establishments they presided over the 
resort of the choicest company. To improve the various 
dishes, many of which were even now imperfectly produced, 
more gastronomic minds went to work, and their labours 
meeting on all sides with liberal encouragement from wealthy 
(joiirmeis of both sexes, a gastronomic college was established, 
Avhich effectually revolutionized the dinners of Europe, and 
elevated cookery to a science.* 

The establishment of Mestawratewrs Avas a great social fact; 
before their fortunate advent the enjoyment of delicate cookery 
was confined solely to the opulent; the Restaurateurs placed it 
Avithin the reach of almost every one. He Avho could spend 
twenty or live-and-tweuty francs for his dinner, and I'uew Jtoio 
to choose his dishes, could dine in one of the first-class salons 
better than in the palace of a prince ; Avhile he avIio could not 
alford to launch out so far, had for his five, or even three franc::>, 
in less pretending establishments, a repast AAdiich the resources 
of his domestic kitchen could not in any Avay compete A\'ith ; in 
fact, the Restaurateurs Avere the missionaries of civilization, 
and their efforts did for French cookery what the seventeenth 
and eighteenth centuries did for literature — they rendered it 
miiversal. And this happy, useful reformation, tending to social 
equality, really had its birth in England, its first nurseries 
having been the Mitres, Turks' Heads, Cocoa Trees, Grecians, 
AVhite's, Will's, Buttons, Sic. &c., Avhose glories are so graphi- 
cally recorded in the pages of the Spectator, the Tattler, and 
the Guardian, and at a later date in Bosaa^cH's gossiphig TAfe 
of' Doctor Johnson, Avhicli latter weight ij authority emphatically 
gave it as his opinion that "' a tavern chair Avas the throne of 
human felicity." 

►Since these bygone days, Avhile we have been gradually 



* Monsieur Henrion de Pejisey, late President of the Court of Cassation, 
says : " 1 regard tlie discovery of a dish as a far more interesting event 
tlian tlie discovery of a star, for avc liave always stars enough, but Ave can 
never have too many dishes; and 1 shall not regard the sciences as suffi- 
ciently honoured amongst us until I sec ii cook iu the first chiss of the 
Institute." 



ORIGIN OF THE EXCELLENCE OE FRENCH COOKERY. 167 

weaiied from our fondness for taverns, and away from home 
enjoyments, the French have taken up our bad habits, and have 
made tavern comforts their particular study. To prevent the 
fire on the domestic hearth from being entirely extinguished, 
and coax erratic husbands sometimes to dine at home, prudent 
housewives became pupils of the great chefs, and under their 
instructions made themselves " cordon Mens,"* or female adepts 
in the arcana of cookery ; thus the French family kitchen, or 
La cuisine Bourgeoise, which is now so renowned as offering 
the happy medium of delicate dinners, where real enjoyment is 
not trenched upon by empty state, gathered its first laurels. It 
was this wise movement of the French housewives that raised 
the standard of French cookery, and fully established its Euro- 
pean pre-emmence. 

Kot having the same stimulus for exertion, and the (jroicing 
wealth of the middle-class rendering domestic accompli shmcnts 
unfashionahle, our English wives have, during the last half 
century, taken but little interest in their kitchens, leaving to 
their servants the superintendence which their grandmothers 
were educated to consider the imperative duty of the mistress of a 
family ; but all is getting right again ; tlie establishment of clubs 
has given English wives the same fright which the restaurateurs 
introduced by Lamy gave to the Parisian dames ; and English 
domestic cookery is now making rajnd strides to compete with 
the best efforts of the so long-vaunted foreign school; in aid of 
which national movement I humbly beg to contribute my 
mite, by giving receipts for a few of the most popular French 
dishes which are quite within the compass of the family kitchen's 
ordinary appliances ; I would, however, advise the addition of a 
■charcoal- stove, and a bain-marie, as they are very valuable 
agents for the acquisition of the peculiar delicacy of finish and 
llavour so much esteemed in the French kitchen. The great 
advantage of the charcoal-stove is, that by the exact amount of 
heat being attained before the stewpans are put upon it, every- 
thing is cooked gradually, which is very necessary for delicate 



* This title belongs exclusively to female artists. The first so ennobled 
was the cuisiniere of 3Iadame Dubarry, who cooked a dinner for Louis XV. 
so exquisitely, that the royal voluptuary, whose confirmed opinion was 
that it was morally and physically impossible for a woman to obtain the 
highest perfex;tiou of the culinary art, declared her to be worthy a 
cordon-Ueu. 



168 THE DlisNEH QUESTIOK. 

sauces, ragouts, c^c. &c. The expeuse of such stoves is not 
great, and the outhiy for erecting one would soon be repaid by 
the saving in fuel. The " hain-maric,''' or hot water -bath, is a 
broad, liat, shallow saucepan, made expressly for the purpose, 
and kept continually on the stove. Into this bath, which should 
be liot, but not boiling, the stewpans are placed when the 
ragouts, sauces, etc., are completed, and their contents can he 
Jcept Jiot without affecting their fiavour or quantity, v/hich is a 
great advantage ; for if the pans are set aside on the hob in a, 
common range, as the stewing will continue, the gravies will 
waste and thicken, the side next the fire will bum, and the deli- 
cacy of the flavour is very apt to be injured, if not entirely 
destroyed. 

Soup being always the "leading article" in a French dinner, 
my first " 'pas en avant" shall be a 

SOUP A LA EEIXE. « 

Cut up two good sized young fowls, put them into a stewpan 
with three quarts of strong white stock (in which carrots and 
onions alone have been stewed), or, if that be wanting, let three 
pounds of knuckle of veal, half a pound of lean ham, two 
jniddling-sized carrots and onions, a blade of mace, and twenty 
black peppercorns, be previously stewed down to the same 
quantity of liquor ; stew with a close-fitting lid for an hour, then 
take out the pieces of fowl, strip off all the white meat, and 
pound it in a mortar with three tablespoonsful of "swelled" 
rice. Put the bones and skin of the fowls into the stewpan 
again, simmer for ten minutes, then skim carefully, and sttain 
through a fine sieve. Mix the chicken and rice pulp with the 
strained broth over the fire in the stew-pan, and " lift' (I've 
come to the grand secret again) until it becomes quite smooth 
and moderately thick. 

N.B. — If it be too thick, add a little more stock or broth ; 
if too thin, a little arrowroot, mixed smooth in a cup with a 
little coZf^ stock. 

Keep hot on the hob, or in the hain-marie (if you have one), 
until wanted ; and at the moment of serving, stir in gradually 
a pint of hot cream. Garnish vv'ith sippets of bread cut in dice 
and fried in butter. Let it be but moderately salt. 

Monsieur Gogue, generally a good authority, says that this 
soup may be made with the relics {dchris) of cooked poultry 



SOUP A LA HEINE AI-TD A LA BISQUE. 1G9 

and ved, instead of fresh fowls ; but I have tried ^his receipt, 
and find it far from satisfactory for holiday occasions. 

POTAGE A LA BISQUE. 

This very popular soup is erroneously supposed by many to be 
made entirely of crayfish, but mussels, crabs, whelks, cockles, 
and every kind of shell-fish excepting oysters, are very often 
used, even in the kitchens of the most celebrated restaur ateurs, 
for the foundation, a few crayfish being added as garnish. 

The mode of producing the real soup is as follows : — 

Wash in several waters, and carefully pull away the black 
portion (the gall gut) of sixty crayfish, then brown in a stev%^- 
pan for five minutes with two ounces of butter, a small carrot, 
a middling sized onion, a head of white celery cut in slices, 
three sprigs of chopped parsley, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of black and cayenne 
pepper; add to them the crayfish, a bottle of white French 
wine, and a quart of strong white or fish stock (for the receipt 
see page 77). Simmer gently (on the charcoal stove) half an 
hour, then take out the crayfish, and strain the broth through 
a tammy, pressing well to obtain the essence of the vegetables. 
Remove the flesh from the claws and tails of the fish, reserve 
half of the latter for garnish, and put the rest into a mortar, with 
four ounces of butter cut in small pieces, the spawn of a cooked 
lobster, six well washed anchovies, and the crusts of two 
small French rolls (previously fried with butter light brown) ; 
pound thoroughly, and put the paste into the stewpan w^ith the 
strained broth ; mix, and " lift" over the fire for a few minutes, 
then, having placed the reserved fish, cut in pieces in the 
tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve hot. This, from 
the quantity of wine used is a very expensive soup, but when 
well made it is perhaps more popular than any of its aristocratic 
relations. When wine is not to be had, the juice of a lemon, 
added at the moment of serving, may be substituted, and as I 
have ah-eady observed, crab, and other cheap shell-fish may re- 
present the river lobster, but their flavour is very inferior to 
that of the " real Simon Pure." 

There are many other bisques of lobster, crab, prawns, 
chickens, game, &c., some of which are served with cream a la 
Reine, but as they are but fanciful variations of the receipt I 
have given, it is not necessary to notice them. 



170 THE DIJiNEll QUESTION. 

BOUILLABAISSE A LA MARSEILLAISE. 

This is the dish for which Marseilles is as much renowned 
as Greenwich is for whitebait, and is tliiis immortalized by 
Thackeray in his '•' Miscellanies," under the title of "' The Ballad 
of the Bouillabaisse." 

This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is — 

A sort of broth, or soup, or brew, 
Or hotchpotch of all kinds of fishes, 

Tliat Greenwich never could outdo; 
Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, saffern, 

Soles, onions, garlic, roach, and dace ; 
All these you eat at Terre's tavern, 

In that one dish of Bouillabaisse. 

Indeed, a rich and savoury stew 'tis, 

And true philosophers, one thinks, 
AVho love all sorts of natural beauties. 

Should love good victuals and good drinks ; 
And Cordelier, or Benedictine, 

Might gladly, sure, his lot embrace, 
Nor find a fast-day too afflicting 

Wliich served him up a Bouillabaisse. 



I 



Although this soup contains several kinds of fish peculiar to 
the jMediterranean seas procurable only at Marseilles, a very 
excellent soup, similar in character, can be made with red mullets, 
soles, small turbots, whitings, gurnets, lobsters, and crayfish, in 
the following manner : — 

Slice up two large onions, place them in a good-sized stew- 
pan large enough to contain all your fish at the bottom — a flat 
wide pan is preferable ; add to this two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil, and fry the onions pale brown ; next place the fish, cut in 
pieces of about three inches square, in the pan, with just enough 
warm water to cover them. To each pound of fish sprinkle 
about half a teaspoonful of salt, an eighth of a teaspoonful of 
pepper, half a bay leaf, half a lemon without the pips or rind, 
cut in dice, also two tomatoes in dice (having extracted the 
seeds) ; add three glasses of sherry or light wine, twenty pepper- 
corns, and half a clove of garlic — set on a fierce fire, and boil 
very fast from ten to twelve minutes. 

By this time the liquor should be reduced to a third of its 
original quantity ; add a small portion of saffron, according to 
taste, a tablespoonful of fresh chopped parsley ; let all boil one 
minute longer, and remove from the fire, as it is then ready for 
dishing up. 



rilE:S'CH LOESTEli SALAD. 171 

Line the tm-een with slices of French rolls about half an inch 
in thickness. 

N.B. Serve as soon as taken from the tire, as the shortest 
delay will injure the flavour. 

SAUCE SOUBISE. 

Mince a dozen small onions, and put them into a stewpan 
with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, over a slow fire (or 
a charcoal vstove), add two tablespoon fuls of Veloiite, or if you 
have none prepared, mix the butter with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and half a pint of cream : when the onions are soft, 
squeeze them through a fine sieve, and put the pulp iiito the 
sauce again by little and little, stirring and " lifting" according 
to previous directions. This sauce should be thick. 

^lAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put into a large bowl two raw yolks of eggs (be careful that 
they are very fresh), half a teaspoonful of salt, the same of ground 
and sifted black pepper, turn and mix (one way) w'itli a Avooden 
spoon, then add by degrees four tablespoonfuls of the best olive 
oil, and two of French vinegar. When the sauce begins to 
thicken, thin it with a little lemon juice, and keep on mixing 
until it is quite smooth, and of the consistency of good 
cream. 

X.B. — This sauce must not be put on the fire, being merely 
a dressing for salads, cold poultry, fish, &c. 

MAYONNAISE D'HOMARD, OR FRENCH LOBSTER SALAD. 

Break a boiled lobster, take out the flesh of the tail and claws, 
and cut them in pieces of about an inch and a half long and 
an inch wide ; then pound the spawn or coral (if there be none 
in the lobster, it is to be bought separately at the fishmonger's) 
with the cream, two ounces of butter, a boned anchovy, and half 
a teaspoonful of caj^enne. Kub this paste through a hair sieve, 
and cover the bottom of the dish you are going to serve your 
salad upon with it, reserving a small quantity to connect the 
pieces of lobster, which you must now pile in layers round the 
dish, leaving the centre hollow, to be filled Avith the salad of 
lettuces, cresses, endive, and beet-root. Kaise the salad into a 
dome, and garnish it with slices of hard-boiled eggs, beet-root, 



172 TUB DINNER QUESTION. 

and pieces of boned anchovies. Pour over it a i^ood qucUitity of 
mayonnaise sauce. 

SAUCE KOBERT. 

Here is the receipt for this once " wonder of the gastronomic 
world." Cut six middling sized onions into dice, brown them 
lightly in an ounce of butter, and moisten them by degrees, first 
with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and then as much Esjjagnole 
sauce (for receipt see page 56) as you may require to make for 
your entree ; mix, and lift, until you arrive at the thickness of 
cream (if too thick, add a little more vinegar or lemon juice), 
then take the pan from the fire, shake in a tablespoonful of 
mustard ; mix, and lift again (oif the fire), and serve. This 
sauce is greatly esteemed all over the Continent for entrees, 
particularly of pork. 

SOLE AU GRATIN. 

Clean, skin, and scrape, a good-sized sole ; lightly crimp the 
back, and place it in a well-buttered metal dish (a silver or plated 
one, if you have it) large enough to allow it to lie in the centre, 
the back upwards, with at least an inch of margin ; put over 
and round it, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter cut in small 
pieces, a teaspoonful of shalot, a tablespoonful of parsley, and 
two tablespoonsful of button-mushrooms, all finely chopped, a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, the same of salt, a 
" grate" of nutmeg, and two glasses of sherry, or any other 
white dry wine ; add two tablespoonsful of Espagnole sauce 
(for receipt see page 56) ; strew in the margin half a dozen 
button-mushrooms cut in quarters, and a tablespoonful of picked 
shrimps ; bake in a brisk oven ten minutes ; then turn the fish, 
baste it with the gravy (without disturbing the mushrooms and 
shrimps), sprinkle a good tablespoonful of dried, or baked, 
bread-crumbs over it ; bake from five to ten minutes longer 
(according to size) ; then serve in the dish it is haJced in. At 
the moment of sending to table, flavour with a slight squeeze of 
lemon. The same receipt will serve for " Filets de Sole" 

N.B. — All kinds of fish can be dressed in this manner, or 
simply in a common, baking-dish, with an oance or two of butter, 
or good dripping, plain bread-crumbs, and chopped herbs ; ale . 
may be substituted for the wine ; and if you do not serve in the 



SOLE X LA XOR:\rANDE AND POULET A LA MAEEXGO. 178 

bakiug-dish (wliicli is by far the best way), gently slide the fish 
into a very hot dish, and pour the gravy round, but not over 
it, or you will destroy the crispness of the bread-crumbs. 

SOLE A LA XORMANDE. 

This is nothing but a variety of the " sole an gratin," the 
only difference in its preparation is that a matelotte sauce la 
Isormande (see receipt below) is used in the place of the Esjoa- 
cjnole, and parboiled oysters, and mussels, small crayfish, fried 
gudgeons, trufiles, and champignons (browned in butter), and 
sippets of fried bread are added to the garnish. It is served in 
the dish it is baked in, with a squeeze of lemon, and a sprinkle 
of cayenne. As the matelotte fiavour should predominate, use 
three tablespoonsful of the sauce. Dutch sauce (see receipt, 
page 88) is often used in place of the *'' matelotte.'" 

MATELOTTE SAUCE A LA NOKMANDE. 

Take the flesh from the tails of a dozen small crayfish, a 
quarter of a pint of mussels, a dozen and a half of oysters 
(there is no need to beard them), half a tablespoonful of button- 
mushrooms, two anchovies, two glasses of white wine, the oyster 
liquor, and a tablespoonful of Veloute sauce ; simmer with a 
close lid one hour ; strain through a tammy, and set the sauce 
aside in a cool place until it is required for use. 

This is a very rich sauce, and may be used for all kinds offish 
ragouts. 

POULET A LA 3IAEENG0. 

Cut up two plump pullets, and put them into a stewpan with 
fbur tablespoonsful of the best olive-oil ; brown the legs first for 
two or three minutes, and then the other pieces ; season with a 
teaspoonful of black pepper, and the same quantity of salt ; add 
two small green onions, a clove of garlic, two shalots, and two 
sprigs of parsley, all chopped fine, half a tablespoonful of tomato 
sauce, a wineglassful of sherry, IMadeira, or any other dry white 
wine, two tablespoonsful of Espagnole, a small piece of ice (to 
give smoothness), and a ver}^ small pinch of pounded sugar (to 
correct acidity), half a dozen button-mushrooms, and half a 
pound of truffles cut into small squares ; mix the gravy, &c., 
with a wooden spoon, and baste well the pieces of the pullets 



17-1 THE DIXXEK (^UESTIOX. 

with it ; simmer on tlie charcoal-stove, or a slow fire, with a 
close lid, from twenty to five-and-twenty minutes, according to 
the weight of the meat ; put the pieces on a hot dish in tht>- 
ibrm of a pyramid ; pour the sauce over it ; add a squeeze of 
lemon, and a sprinkle of cayenne ; g-arnisli -with sippets of a 
French roll, and egg-s fried in oil. 

FRICASSEE DE POULET. 

Having carefully plucked, drawn, singed, and chopped off the 
scaly legs and feet of your chicken, cut oft' the thighs and wungs, 
and divide each into two pieces ; then separate the breast from 
the back, and cut tliem into four pieces ; Avasli well the liver and 
gizzard, and put them, with all the other pieces, into a pan of 
cold water ; move them to and fro several times with the hand 
to bring away any blood or small vessels which ma}'^ have been 
overlooked in the drawing. 

Xow dissolve in a stewpan an ounce of butter cut in small 
pieces, lightly brown in it half a small carrot, a small onion, 
half a head of wdiite celery cut in thin slices, a blade of mace, 
a sprig of parsley, two cloves, a teaspoonful of salt, and a dozen 
black pepper-corns ; then put the pieces of chicken upon them; 
add to thehi a quart of white stock, or if that be not at hand, 
the same quantity of boiling water ; stew^ g^i^tl}^ wdth a close lid 
three-quarters of an hour ; then skim, and strain off the vege- 
tables, and put the pieces of chicken aside in the pan, and the 
broth in a basin, until you have made 3'our sauce, which you 
must do as follows : — ^le\t two ounces of butter in another stew- 
pan, and shake into it by degrees (mixing with a wooden spoon) 
two tablespoonsful of Hour, taking especial care that the thick- 
ening does not " colour ;" then take off the ])an, and pour in the 
broth by degrees ; mix and lift with the wooden spoon until you 
have formed a smooth sauce ; then, having beaten up the yolks 
of four eggs with half an ounce of butter cut in small pieces, and 
two tablespoonsful of good cream, add them also by degrees to 
the sauce ; mix and lift as before for about five minutes ; then 
pass the sauce through a tammy into the stewpan in wdiich you 
have placed the pieces of chicken, with two dozen button-mush- 
rooms stew^ed, and cut in half. Warm up over a brisk fire, and 
serve on a hot dish, the pieces of chicken being fancifully piled 
in the centre with the mushrooms roun.d them, and the white 
fiance poured oyer ail. 



miCAKDEAU IJE VEAV. 175 

Truffles cut in squares and'stewed in Veloiiie sauce, artichoke 
bottoms, cucumbers, small onions, pieces of fried sweetbread, 
ham, and savour}' forcemeat, are also used for garnishing. 

FHICA^'DEAU DE VEAU. 

This savoury dish, so long the pride of the French kitclien, 
is, strange to say, fast going out of fashion, being seldom seen 
in Paris but at the restaurants frequented by the English, with 
whom it is still in high estimation as 2l plat de resistance ; in 
fact, it may be regarded as a Frenoh veal cutlet. It is prepared 
thus : — 

Procure a cutlet from the fillet, weighing a pound and a half: 
about eight inches in length, three inches thick, and from three 
to four inches broad. Smooth it with two or three smart blows 
with your " meat bat ;" pare off the skin and gi-istle, and lard 
it thickly on the top and sides (according to the instructions at 
foot) ; then select a stewpan just large enough to hold the cutlet 
and vegetables with but little margin, and cover the bottom with 
two middling-sized carrots and onions cut in thick slices, three 
sprigs of parsley, two blades of mace, two sprigs of lemon thyme, 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and twenty wdiite peppercorns ; add first a thin layer of fat 
bacon, and then the cutlet ; moisten with as much white stock 
as will just cover the vegetables and hacon, hut not the meat. 
Stew gently with a close lid three hours on the charcoal- stove or 
a slow fire ; baste frequently with its own gravy ; about a quarter 
of an hour before it is done, strew the top of the pan with live 
charcoal, to brown and crisp the larding ; if, however, it should 
happen not to be sufficiently deep in colour (it should not, how- 
ever, be too dark), hold the " salamander" over it for a minute or 
two. Strain oft' the vegetables, and having placed thefricandeaic 
in a hot dish upon spinach, pea, or any other vegetable imree, 
pour the gravy, which ought to be moderately thick, over it. 

LAEDING. 

This process is very generally used in the French kitchen to 
impart succulency and flavour to meats which have but little 
natural juice, such as veal, turkey, rabbits, capons, pheasants, &c. 
All that is required for it is a larding-needle, which, can be bought 
at alnmst any iroDmonsrer's, and some hi baron. 



176 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

The mode of operation is simply to pinch up mth the finger 
and thumb a piece of the flesh ; then force the needle, charged 
with thin strips of bacon, through it; withdi-awthe spring, and 
leave the "larding" in an equal length (about a quarter of an 
inch) on each side. 

A very little practice will enable you to cover youYfricandeau, 
or your bird, with " lardons" as thickly and fancifully arranged^ 
as '•' the quills of the fretful porcupine." 

rUREES. 

These are simply vegetables of various kinds, boiled, or browned 
and stewed ; then pounded in a mortar, incorporated with two or 
three spoonsful of either Es2:)agnole, Veloute, or Bechamel sauce, 
and formed in a pulp by being squeezed through a fine sieve or a 
tammy. As this preparation is very savoury, and afibrds a 
pleasant change to the plain English style, I will give a few 
examples of the principal varieties. 

PEA PUREE. 

Boil for twenty minutes in a pint and a half of water, a 
quart of green peas, v/ith the young leaves of three sprigs of 
fresh mint, a handful of parsley, and a dozen sprmg onions. 
Strain ofi' the water, and pound the vegetables in a mortar ; 
then put them in a stewpan with two tablespoonsful of either 
Veloute or Bechamel sauce ; mix well over the fire for two or 
three minutes ; then beat the pulp through a fine sieve ; Avhen 
required for use, Avarm in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh 
butter. The same receipt will serve for young French bean 
furee. 

SPINACH PUREE. 

Pick and boil the spinach in the usual manner — pound \i, 
add half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the same of sugar, and a tablespoonful of 
Beehamel sauce, mix over the fire, pass it into a pulp through 
a sieve or tammy — warm before serving, with two ounces of 
fresh butter. 

POTATO PUREE. 

Peel and cut in slices half-a-dozen good-sized potatoes, put 
them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, twenty corns of 



PUllEES. 177 

black pepper, halt' a teaspoonful of salt, the quarter of a grated 
nutmeg, and a phit of Avhite stock. Stew, with a close lid 
three-quarters of an hour ; then stir in gradually (over the fire) 
half a pint of cream ; stir and lift with a wooden spoon, then 
pulp through a sieve or tammy ; warm when about to serve, 
Avith an ounce of fresh butter. 

YOUNG CAT^r.OT PUKEE. 

Instead of being boiled the carrots must be cut in slices and 
fried with two ounces of butter, a little salt, grated nutmeg 
and sugar, and turned occasionally until they are a light brown ; 
then moisten with a teacupful of white stock, and stew for ten 
minutes, next pound and beat through a sieve, or squeeze through 
a tammy; Avhen required for use, warm Avith an ounce of fresh 
butter. 

TUHNIP rUREE. 

Tlie turnips should be sliced and put into the stewpan with 
two ounces of butter, a little sugar and salt, stewed gently for 
a few minutes, and turned occasionall}' (taking care that they 
do not burn), when they are nearly melted, add half a tea- 
cupful of either VeJoute or BccJiamel, stir over the fire until it 
arrives at the consistency of soft paste, then add gradually half 
a pint of good cream, mix and lift again, squeeze through the 
tammy, warm with an ounce of butter. Celery, onion, cauliflower, 
broccoli, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, and a great number of 
other purees are treated in the same manner. I give these 
receipts, that ih.Q family liousekeeper may take a useful hint 
from them, witJioiit incurrinr/ the expense of cream and meat 
sauces. 

The vegetables plainly boiled, pulped through the sieve, and 
then mixed with a little gravy, milk, or butter, Avill be ibund 
very tasteful ; indeed, the whole of the foregoing French dishes 
can be produced by an intelligent cook {ivho inll icell consider 
them), for far less expense ; I give them only as " holiday 
di.-hes," to be adopted in their integrity, or modified according 
to the taste and circumstances 'of those who are inclined to trj^ 
them. 

My last example shall be an English holiday dish, and in 
recording it, I shall bring to light a mystery that has liitheilo 

31 



17S THE DINNER QUESTION. 

been confined to tbe bosoms of a few " cliefs " who direct the 
preparation of the piscatorial delicacies of the famous " baiting 
houses " on the banks of London's river; it is 

HOW TO DRESS WHITEBAIT. 

Spread a clean napkin upon a table, cover it within half an 
inch of the edge with fine sifted flour (say half inch thick), next 
sprinkle lightly, by small handfuls, about a pint or more of the 
bait, taking care tliat it is spread all over the flour ; have ready 
about three pounds of good and sweet lai'd in'a deep frying-pan j 
let this be getting hot while you proceed as above. Observe 
carefully when the least vapour rises from the lard, for it then 
is hot enough. Now hasten to toss the flour and bait together 
from end to end upon the napkin ; have ready a coarse cane 
sieve, throw the whole into it, sift away the flour quickly and 
throw the bait into the hot lard, or rather shake it in by 
degi-ees, but quickly, or part will be dressed and the other not, 
moving the frying-pan backwards and forwards to spread the 
whole, and prevent the fish from adhering, keeping the pan 
upon the fire. Have a wire slice or ladle ready at hand, apply 
this cautiously among the fish, and if they sound crisp and 
hard, remove them quickly into a colander, di-ain one minute, 
sprinkle lightly with tine salt, toss them over, and serve upon a 
dish, with a napkin, instauter. The whole process should not 
take more than six or seven minutes.* 

I am indebted for the above to the kindness of Mr. Edmund 
Pallister, of Pallister's Hotel, Gravesend. It is the composition 
of his principal cook, Mr. Skilleter, and may be looked upon a& 
the best practical receipt for the preparation of this delicacy that 
has ever been published. 

* In the 2Sth number of the Kaiiiralist, Mr. Cr. Pulman, of Crewkernc, 
Somersetshire, has clearly shown that whitebait (clupea alba), which has 
generally been supposed to be produced by the Thames only, swarra in 
incredible numbers in the river Dart, especially in that part of the river 
which extends from Totness Weir to Dartmouth, a distance of about 
twelve miles. These delicate fish feed upon shrimps, and when in pursuit 
of their prey, their gambols are very remarkable. Whether they remain 
in the Dart throughout the year, has not been ascertained ; but they hare 
been observed in March, and in every succeeding month till the end of 
:N'ovcmbcr. They are also found in large quantities at Antwerp, 



CAETIXG. 179 

The followilij^ brief hints on this subject will I trust be 
found to embrace the most essential rudiments of the art ; but 
practice, constant practice, alone can bring- about ultimate per- 
fection ; without it all the treatises you may read, Avith the help 
of their diagrams, will avail but little ; you must, like a surgeon, 
obtain your " facility in operations" by constant experiments on 
the " subject." If, then, your early education on this little con- 
sidered but very important branch of knowledge may have been 
neglected, lose no time in taking practical measures to remove 
the disability. As one simple method by which young married 
ladies who take the head of theii' table, and young gentlemen 
who " go into society," might be spared much annoyance from 
not possessing the necessary qualifications for the performance 
of this duty, I would recommend ladies who have young families, 
instead of carving the dishes sent into the nursery themselves, 
or deputing the office to a servant, to make it a rule that all the 
little ones, when they are old enough to handle a knife and fork 
safely, shall take their iwYYiBiocQ.XYe^hegiuningwithtJiepuddhigs. 
In this manner, the art Avould be easily acquired, and, like 
swimming learnt in early youth, can never be forgotten. 

If the mind be given to the matter, there are few persons who 
cannot find good private practice at home, or at the tables of 
their relatives ; to them we say, seek to have a " cut" at every- 
thing that comes from the kitchen ; and instead of dreadmg to 
encounter a goose or a hare, look out for favom-able opportunities 
of cultivating their acquaintance. Follow with observant eyes 
all the little master slices and twists of a practised operator in 
table anatomy ; and forthwith, if you have not an opportunity 
of "trying your wings" at a friend's table, have the bii-d, joint, 

*. In the latter part of George the First's reign (1720) it was the fashion 
for ladies to carve every dish that came to table, arid so important was 
this accomplishment considered, that " professors of the knife and fork" 
gained fame and good profit by giving lessons in the art. Some of their 
preliminary exercises were very ludicrous: wooden feffigies of meat, fish, 
ind birds, with the " cuts " indicated, and the joints articulated, and put 
;ogether like a child's puzzle, had to be operated upon before the real 
' subject" came under tlie knife, wliich subject was always provided at the 
)upil's expense. Indeed, so great was the vogue of a professor who held 
lis court in Tavistock-street, then the " Emporium of Fashion," that tJie 
arriages of his titled patronesses often stopped the way, to the great 
detriment of the millinery and Indian curiosity establishments. 
m2 



le 



ISO THE J31XNER QUESTION. 

hare, ov M\, coolccd at homo, and with bolted doors, as an 
alchemist would try a grand experiment, tuck up your sleeves, 
and go to work, armed with a long-handled " carver," with u 
broad, well- sharpened bhide having a keen point to it. With 
this and a two-pronged stct-l Ibrk with a secure guard, attack 
your enemy; your remembrance of the "practised hand's" 
method of commencing with a shoulder or leg of mutton will 
direct you where to make your first incision ; but, if you should 
happen to have forgotten it, one failure iviU cause you to nmlev- 
6tand icliich side is the projjer one to he turned towards i/ou 
as ijou cut, and you will never afterwards find your knife hack- 
ing the bone when it should be slicing the flesh. To carve 
poultry requires greater knowledge and practice ; you know that 
birds have wings, legs, breasts, backs, merry-thoughts, side 
bones, &c., and a very slight consideration of their structure 
and Illative position Avill lead you to the main joints ; but you 
will hack and hack, and sphish and splash, many and many times 
before you can hit them with any certainty and cleverness ; still 
don't be daunted ; try again and again ; as in the army t]i( 
" goose-step" must be learned, don't flinch from yours. ]]ut 
by all means get if possible some practised hand to give you a 
hint or two at the outset, and you may be sure that ere long the 
light will break upon you, and you will be able fearlessly to 
attack anvthing that comes to table. 

Limited space will not permit me to give examples for carvmg 
meat and ^sh ; they are comparatively easy, and may be best 
learned from careful observation ; all that it is necessary to say 
in this place is, endeavour to cut/row^ rather than to your fork, 
for by so doing you will be less liable to accidents from the Icnite 
clipping, and il moreover gives you a firmer " cut" and greater 
mastery over all parts of the bird, johit, &c. ; but, you must 
talce luirt'icular care to have your Inifc very sharp. 

HOW TO CARVE rOULTllY AND GxVME. 

As the leading points are nearly the same ibr each, I will 
give one fundam(nital rule, appending to it a few observations 
Avhere any variation be requisite. 

riace the bird within easy reach, with the neck to your 
left hand Inr^ert the fork firmly in the breast just above the 
raerry-tlicught, then make u sharp cut (to the bone) in a 



CAllVING. 181 

direct line from the inne)' side of the pinion to the rump — do 
the same with the other side ; by this you will mark out j^our 
wings ; then with the point of the knife toucli the pinion joint 
and cut through the sinew, incline the knife outwards on each 
side, and the wings will he ready for separating, which should 
be effected by steadyinc/ the body with the knife, plachuj the 
forh at the top of the joint and jpiilllncj them away ; replace 
the fork in its former position, and carry the point of the 
knife sharply down each side of the breast-bone (as close to it 
as possible), and make two, or if the fowl be large three, slices 
on each side (the latter must he 2^ Med away, like the wings); 
then take off the merr3''-thought, by cutting through its gristle 
at the top of the breast, forcing it back with the knife towards 
the neck, and cutting through the sinews at the back with the 
point. 

Then, inserting the Icnife at tlie top of the shoulders, make 
a sharp cut towards the right, and pull away the side-bones ; 
then, steadying the body with the fork, cut tow<U'ds the back 
joint of the legs, and with the point of the knife /eel for its 
centre ; Avhen you have found it, cut through the sinew, turn 
the legs outwards, cut them from the body, and divide them 
at the thigh-joint ; theu slice and pull away the good pieces 
on each side of the rump — scoop out the " epicure's bits" on 
each side of the centre of the back, hold the back firmly witli 
the fork, bend it back in the centre with the knife, it will 
easily divide, amputate the "parson's nose," and your fowl is 
carved. 

As geese and turkeys have large breasts, instead of begin- 
ning to carve them by taking off the wings, cut the breasts 
in handsome slices from the left to the right (always to the 
bone) until you arrive at the pinions, then attack the legs, &c. 
A hare should also be sliced down the back (keeping his head 
on your left hand), then take off the " legs and wings." 

Wild ducks are sliced like geese, but tame ducks are treated 
like fowls. 

Partridges are generally cut in half, but sometimes the legs 
are taken off, and the whole of the breast is separated from the 
back : to do this cleverly requires a good deal of practice — don't 
blunder in the dark, looTc for the joints, sever the sinews, hold 
the back firmly with the fork, and turn the breast from you with 
the knife. 



183 THE DJKNER QUESTION'. 

Grouse and woodcocks are winged and sliced like fowls, or 
cut down the centre. Pigeons, snipes, and quails, are either cut 
in half, or served wdiole. 

In dismissing the subject, I repeat the advice I started with ; 
take good note of the dexterity of experienced carvers, never be 
ashamed of gaining information, but above all, seek every oppor- 
tunity for practice, 

IlOVr TO 3rAKE COFFEE.* 

How many thick volumes have been written on this appa- 
rently insignificant subject ! how man}^ wonderful receipts are 
known for it ! and how opposite are the various theories regard- 
ing it ! | 

" If you boil it," says Professor IMaresnest, " you spoil it ; 
the aroma is entirely destroyed, and you might as well drink 
a decoction of mahogany sawdust." '•' If you clont boil it," 
gays old ]\Ir. Brownwig, who has almost lived upon it for fifty 
years, " you lose all its strength." " A percolatev is the thing, 
my boy," says Mr. Eitzjones, of Pelham-crescent ; " it's genteel, 
and clear ; and I'm told by Lord Sniffle we get nothing but 
the true aJi-ro-mah, just as we do in Paris." " Give me the 
old-fashioned black cotfee-pot," says Mr. Ginger, the grocer 
(who in spite of the fashion for migration to a suburban villa 
still lives at his house of business in the City), " and plenty of 
the berry well roasted and fresh ground, and I'll back myself 
to turn out as fine a cup as any one can produce by any process, 
not excepting the French chaps, who I Icnovj always mix theirs 
with lots of chicory." 

The Turk roasts and ^pounds the berry at the moment he 
requires it, steics it with a very small quantity of water, and 
drinks it boiling hot, idtlt ilie grounds, without either milk or 
sugar. 

Which method is the best ? 

How do they make it in France ?" perhaps some one maj- 
ask ; " for it is only there we drink it in perfection." 

* The first coflfee-liouse opened in England was in George-yard, Lom- 
bard-street, by one Pasqua, a Greek, who w.ls brought over in 1652, by a 
Turkey merchant named Edwards. In 1074, it was petitioned against in 
Parliament, and termed "a base, black, tliick, nasty, bitter, stinking 
puddle water," and the Iiainbow Coflee -house in Fleet-street was indicted 
for the milsance of selling it. 



now TO :aAKE COrFEE. IS 3 

I am prepared to answer the question and give the French 
receipt ; but in doing so, I am afraid my revelations will do for 
you what the microscope did for the Brahmin, dispel all your 
long-cherishecl illusions, for French coffee is very seldom 
either fresh or pure, the liquor from the boiled-up grounds 
of the preceding day being very generally used, and not only 
chicory, but in many cases Spanish liquorice is employed to 
give colour and flavour, as well as seeming strength. Startling 
as these assertions may appear, there are few English house- 
keepers in France who cannot corroborate them. 

The French method is as follows : — Half an ounce of chicory 
(called chicoree cafe ) is mixed with each ounce of coffee, and 
put either in a broad bottomed iron-pot, or an earthenware pan 
with a close-fitting cover ; the strained liquor from the boiled- 
up grounds is then poured over them, with as much boiling 
water as, when reduced by stewing, will make the quantity of 
coffee required ; the pot or pan is set on the stove over a slow 
charcoal fire, or on the hearth before the fire, with the hot wood 
embers and ashes piled round it ; it is then left to simmer 
during the night, or day, as may be most convenient. When 
wanted for use, the coffee is boiled up quickly, strained through 
a fine cloth, put into a warmed metal pot, and served as hot as 
possible, v/ith boiling cream or milk in a separate' pot. The 
best lump sugar or sugiir-candy is used for sweetening. When 
very strong flavour and colom- are required for cafe noir, a 
small piece of Spanish liquorice is added at the concluding 
boiling-up ; indeed, the use both of chicory and liquorice is 
very general throughout the Continent, particularly in the Cafh 
and Restaurants. 

Having thus brought to light the secrets of the French 
coffee makers, I will now give my own method, which I will 
call 

EJfGLISH COFFEE A LA TICKLE TOOTH. 

Begin by procuring good berries (the 3Iocha are the best), 
for there is never anything saved by using an inferior article ; 
roast them at home (a cylinder made expressly for the purpose 
can be purchased for about five shillings), open the little door 
in the cylinder frequently during the process, to see that the 
berries are not getting too dark a brown, for the strength of 
the coffee does not depend, as many imagine, on its being highly 



184 THE DINNER QUESTION. 

coloured. As the roasting takes some time, and it maj' be 
inconvenient to repeat it on ever}"- occasion the coffee is required, 
you may prepare enough for three or four days, and set it aside 
in a ivell-closed tin canister. Next, grind the quantity you 
deem sufficient, allowing a full ounce to each breakfast- cupful 
required ; put it into a broad-bottomed block-tin or iron cofiee- 
pot, pour upon it as many cupfuls of boiling water as you wish 
to have of strong coffee, with the addition of a cup of water 
(more or less, according to the quantity of coffee) for wasting ; 
stir well with a wooden spoon, then put the pot on the fire, 
and hoil quichhj, stirring all the while. As soon as the bubbles 
begin to rise, take the pot from the lire, pour out a cupful, hold 
it a couple of feet above the pot, and pour it back again ; 
repeat this three or four times, as its effect is similar to the 
lifting practised with sauces ; give the pot a smart knock, to 
cause the grounds to settle, as you set it on the hob, where 
you must place it at a sufficient distance from the fire to keep 
warm, but not to simmer. If you have a hain-marie put it 
in that. If you do not like the black coffee-pot to appear in 
the breakfast parlour (although it possesses many of the good 
qualities of the black -bottle), let the coffee be strained through a 
piece of muslin, put into a warmed metal coffee-pot, and served 
the moment it is ready. 

Fining with isinglass, salt, egg-shells, or sole-skin always 
destroys the flavour, and is quite unnecessary if the person who 
pours the coffee into the cup from the black pot, or through 
the muslin strainer, be careful to do so gently, so as not to 
disturb the settlement or grounds at the bottom. 

In straining into the warmed pot, (7o not squeeze the muslin, 
and endeavour to pour from the black pot so steadily that 
nothing but the clear liquor will have to be filtered. 

Although Soyer and many other French cooks recommend 
that the grounds left from a previous brewing should be boiled 
up, and their strained liquor added to the iresh coffee, I per- 
fectly agree with Mrs. Acton that it destroys the aroma, and 
should never under any circumstances be resorted to. 

The bad quality of the chicory used in England is another 
great cause of our coffee gaining so bad a name, for the dirty 
trash sold for it by the generality of gi-ocers (see Mr. Wakley's 
exposures in the Lancet), is not only destructive of flavour, 
but poisonous besides. I believe that a little pure chicory, 



CONCLUSION". 185 

l^rcpared at liome, ma}' be advantageously used to obtain the 
French flavour, but never be tempted to try tlie deadly mixture 
sold at the grocers.* 

The preparation of the endive, which is really " chicory," 
is very simple. Procure some fresh heads, wash them well, 
and thoroughly dry them by wiping them with a soft cloth, 
cut them in pieces, put them in a tin or pie dish, and bake 
them until they are quite crisp and brown ; then rub them 
to powder with your lingers, or pound them in a mortar, 
using a teaspoonful of the powder to each ounce of coffee. I 
give the receipt for those who, like Sancho Panza, wish for 
'•' better bread than is made of wheat ;" but for my own part, 
I think that nothing can imjjrove the imre cuffee. 

As a dinner naturally terminates with the cup of coft'ee and 
its chasse, so will I conclude my book. 

The bill of fare I have offered does not profess to display 
extraordinary novelties, nor give undue importance to anything 
that is already familiarly known ; neither have I, on the other 
hand, supposed that everi/ one is so well informed as to need no 
advice or instruction. 

What I have aimed at has been to demonstrate to all classes 
the advantages arising from a practical knowledge of cookery, 
and the general management of a house. In adopting The 
Dinner Question, for my title, I have taken advantage of 
the famous controversy that appeared in the columns of the 
Times, and whilom attracted so much public attention, thinking 
it a topic of such universal importance that it might well be 

* Among the " adulterations of food " bvouglit to light by the Sanitary 
Commission, recorded in the Lancet, that of cliicory has a most unenviable 
prominency. It is not enough that a variety of deleterious compounds 
known as " Dlack Jack," " Coffina," and Ilambro' Powder (roasted peas 
coloured with Venetian red or calcined copperas) are resorted to, but 
mahogany sawdust, and the used-up oak-bark powder from the Bermondsey 
tan-yards, charred and ground, are also hirgely employed. If these 
adulterations are stigmatized as atrocious frauds, what epithet should be 
employed to designate the admixture with chicory of baked horses' and 
bullocks' livers? 

lu a useful little book by Mr. P. L. Simmouds, entitled Coffee as it is, and 
as it oufjht to he, occurs this startling jjiece of information : — "In various 
jians of the metropolis, but more especially in the east, are to be found 
liver-bakers. 'J'hese men take the livers of oxen and horses, bake them, 
and grind them into a powder, which they sell to the low-priced cotfee - 
shop keepers, at from fourpence to sixpence per pound, horses'-liver coll'ee 
bearing the highest price. It may be known by allowing the cotfoe to 
stand until cold, when a thick pellicle or skin will be found on the top. 



186 THE DINKER QIJESTIOF. 

enlarged upon. Instead, however, of compiling another mere 
cookery book, crammed with a vast number of impracticable or 
worthless receipts, I have preferred rather to condense ni}' in- 
formation, and to give a brief, comprehensive review of every 
useful phase of " The Art of Dining and Giving Dinners," 
combined with A practical guide to young housekeepers 
TO THE RUDIMENTS OF PLAIN COOKERY, the Want of know- 
ledge of which I take to be one of the principal causes of the 
reproach that has been so long attached to English housewives 
and cooks, that the dinners they produce are like the attempts 
of amateur actors — mere superficial, unsatisfactory efforts, alike 
devoid of study and artistic, training. 

In almost every work I have read professing to teach ladies 
how to cook, the authors, instead of endeavouring to ground 
their pupils in prhicijjles or causes, devote t\\(iir whole attention 
to effects. By giving a large number of receipts, which are 
often bewildering, and saying nothing of many of the essentials 
of preparation, manipulation, &c. &c., those who endeavour to 
cook from them often fall into errors which entirely destroy 
both the iiavour and appearance of their dishes. By taking 
each branch separately, explaining thoroughly " the reason why " 
everything is done, and at the same time showing the right 
way ofdoincjit, I have tried to make my book an unpretending 
but useful primer to the practical knowledge of cookery, so 
that any lady Vv^ho will give it serious attention, and commit 
to memory its most important hints, will very soon be com- 
pletely familiar with everything appertaining to the Family 
Kitchen, and at no distant period will be able fearlessly to 
venture on higher ground. 

The great point I wish to inculcate is, self-reliance : do not 
worlc with the hoolc in your hand. Study it carefully, and 
he well possessed of its rules before you attempt to put them 
into practice ; and, as I have before observed, " when you know 
how to fry a sole, to make a inatelotte, to hash, mince, roast, 
broil, bake, and stew, beef, mutton, veal, pork, and vegetables, 
and make pies and puddings on 2^^o])er principles, you are in 
possession of the stem from which all the more elaborate and 
costly varieties branch." 

In laying down my pen, let me relate a little anecdote. 

The Prince de Soubise had one day the intention of giving a 
fete ; it was to terminate with a supper, and he asked to see 



COHCLXJSION. 187 

Ills bill of fare. His cook presented ouo wltli an estimate. 
The first article which caught the Prince's eye was ffty hams. 
" Eh ! what.^" said he ; " why, Bertrand, j'ou must b§ out of 
your senses. Are you going to feast my whole regiment ?" 
" 'No, Monseigneur, only one ham will appear on the table ; but 
the remainder are indispensable to me for my esj^af/noles, my 

blondes, my garnatures, my " *•' Bertrand, you are 

plundermg me; that article shall not pass." *' Oh, Mon- 
seigneur," replied the indignant artist, " you do not understand 
our capabilities. Say the word, ^xA I lo'ill jput all iliese fifty 
hams icMch confound you, into a glass hottle no bigger than 
the to}} of my thumb." What reply could be made to such a 
positive assertion ^ The Prince smiled, nodded his head, and 
the item passed. 

GENTLE READER, 

I have stewed down fifty cooTcery hoolcs, and seasoned them 
with the practical knowledge derived from nearly forty years' 
experience in housekeeping, to form this little volume. Will 
you kindly imitate the Prince de Soubise, smile, nod your 
liead, and sanction its adoption ? 



188 



INDEX. 



PACK 

AnKiiNETHY's blue pill . . .111 
Absurd pride in cUuiier giving 11!» 
Account of " Bii'ch'.s," Cornliill (>i 
Advantage of dinners being 

well managed 1 ;i 

Advice to snobs 14 

„ of an old dinner-giver 

to his son 152 

„ to gentlemen on carving lot! 

Apple pudding 123 

„ dumplings 123 

„ fritters lyo 

Arrow-root butter sauce . . t)0 
Arrangement of dining table 9 
Article from Fraser, on light- 
ing 153 

Asparagus 107 

Asparagus points 107 

Attention to frying , . . . :;g 

Eartiiolomem' Laxe, :\rr. . 90 

liakiug a 2 

Uaked rice pudding . . . .120 

„ potatoes 98 

,, custard pudding . . .124 
Brummel, on linger glasses . loo 

Bechamel sauce 88 

Bedsteads and bedding ... is 
Bedroom furniture .... 19 
Beef-steaks like Irish stew . 54 

Beef-tea 79 

Bclmontine candles . . . . Ij4 
Be?t method of serving your 

dinner 156 

Bill of fare for a plain dinner .157 
Birds in a bedroom .... 19 
Black caps or college puddings 120 

„ pot, the 24 

Boiling 27 

Boiled turnips lo;i 

„ batter pudding . . . 120 
,, rice pudding . . . .120 
,, custard or egg pudding 123 
„ custards for tarts . .124 
Boiling, a recent invention . . 2 7 



PAGE 

Brain balls; or cakes ....(;(; 

Breadcrumbs 41 

Bread and butter pudding . . 24 
Brillat Savaiin on omelettes (if; 

Broiling 3S 

Broccoli 105 

Broad beans 108 

Bubble and squeak . . . . 50 

Butter sauce a hi Tickletooth . 89 

„ for tine pastry . . .115 

C.UJiNET pudding 130 

Cafe de I'Europe 14G 

Caper sauce 93 

Care of the teeth 20 

Carrot soup G8 

Carrots 104 

„ a la maitre d'hotel . . 104 
Carelessness of servants . . . 25 

Carving 17!* 

Cauliflowers 105 

Caution against buying cheap 
furniture ....... 18 

Celery sauce 93 

„ for a family . . 93 

Charles Lamb and the farmer 103 

Cheap dining-houses in I'aris 143 

„ dinnei's in the city . . 144 

Cliicken soup 70 

„ pie a la Tickletooth . 132 
Christmas plum- pudding . .lie 
„ Soyer's receipt . .117 
„ Mrs. Acton's receipt 117 
„ Dr. Kitchener's . .117 
„ a la Tickletooth . 118 
„ 3Ietrical receipt . .119 
Clock necessary for cooking . 2(; 

Coftee 182 

Coke or wood fires injurious . 22 

Cold water 20 

Commencement of housekeep- 
ing IS 

Cornish rabbit pie 13 t 

Cottafje Gardener, note on 
onions 101 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Couut d'Orsay and Louis 2s a- 

poleou lOi 

„ letter on rarii 

Jiedauraiiis 141 

Cream 1 1 ■> 

Crisped parsley i-i 

Crowding guests 150 

„ bedrooms .... 19 
Crust for raised pies . . . . \do 
„ fruit and meat pud- 
dings 122 

Crystal Palace dinners . . .147 



L'l 

138 

10 



Dining debts 13 

Devilling 51 

Diflerent opinions on early 

rising 

Dining out 

Dinners a la llusse .... 
Dinner question, the, one of 

great moment S 

Dining in the olden time . . Iu9 
Dinner for a large party, 

" G. H. 3r."' 8 

Dinner parties 

Directions for stewing . . . 
„ preparing eels . 

Dripping 

Dumplings 

Dutch sauce 

Economy in firing .... 

Eels en matelotte 

Egg sauce 

Ekeiug out a dinner .... 
English dinners for snobs from 

Punch 

English emeralds 

Espagnole sauce 

Excellent rules for frying . .23 
Extract from letter" G. H. M." 

in the Tbnes -JS 

„ from Mr. Simpson's book 152 
Extravagance in giving dinners 151* 

Eallacies of the faculty . .110 
Family bread pudding . . .121 
Filets de sole a la Tickletooth . 4 7 

Filet de sole 4'] 

Finger glasses 155 

Fish soups Tf! 

„ ,, stock 77 

„ forcemeat balls . . . . 7S 
Flavouring gravy bG 



14 7 

29 

44 

11(5 

111 

S8 



45 
15 

13 

108 
5G 



PAGE 

Flaky paste 112 

Flavourings for puddings and 

sweet sauces 12 5 

Flavour of tish destroyed by 

sauces 85 

Fleece, Tlie, in Old Tluead- 

needle-strect 139 

Flour for fine pastry . . . .114 
Forcemeat balls for eels . . 4i) 
French melted butter ... 89 

„ beans 108 

,, frying-pans .... 34 
„ method of hashing . . 48 
„ mode of cooking peas . 108 

cotlee 183 

,, dinner 158 

Fresh vegetables 110 

Fried sole 40 

„ potatoes 50 

Fruit pies and tarts . . . .125 

Frying-pans 23 

Vrying 34 

Furnishing of sitting-rooms . 2 1 

Game soups 7ii 

,, pies 135 

,, in MuUigatawney . . 71 
Gas out of fa^■our in dining- 
rooms 15 4 

General instructions for boiling 27 
„ remarks on fruit pud- 
dings and pies 12G 

George III. and roast goose . 102 
(ieorge and A'ulture, Lombard- 

.«treet 139 

Giblet soup 74 

„ pie 13« 

Golden rules for the kitchen . 25 
Good and cheap vegetable soup 6 2 
„ family mutton broth . . 80 
Goose stuffing a la Tickletooth 138 
(jood light for cooking . . . 22 
Gravy for roast meat .... 29 

Gravy soup ti7 

Gravies and sauces .... 83 

Green pea soup (i9 

„ peas a la Franeaise . . 107 

„ Avatcr 105 

Green's picture gallery . . . 14(j 
Green peas . . . ' . . . .107 
Great dinners depend on tlie 

ladies 22 

„ faults of cookery books . 7 
,, c»Tor in hashing ... 49 



190 



INDEX. 



Gridiron, the 



Hare soup 71 

Hard or Suffolk dumpliugs . . 122 

Hare stuffing a la Tickletooth. 13S 

Haricot mutton . . i . . 52 

Hashed mutton ..... 47 

Herb omelettes 12 7 

Highbury-barn 14G 

Hints on furnishing to the 

newly-married IS 

Hiudustanee maxim . . . .125 

Horse-Hesh as human food . . 37 

How furniture should be bought 1 8 

„ to purchase coals . . . 2:7 

,, to make up a fire ... 28 

„ to boil a potato . ... 96 

„ to choose ditto .... 97 

„ to begin your dinner . . 11 

„ to ornament your table , 15 
„ to wean a husband from 

his club ...*... 1 5 
„ to break up a party . . IC 
„ to become an accom- 
plished cook 25 

„ to hang up your meat for 

roasting SO 

„ to give a small dinner- 
party 147 

„ to make coffee . . . .182 
„ to dress white-bait . .178 

Indian pillau 70 

ifluence of the French revo- 
lution on cookery . . . . IdO 
Ingratitude of the poor . . . C3 
Insects in cabbage . . . .104 
Introduction of French dishes 

into England 140 

Invalid's mutton broth ... 81 

Irish stew 52 

Jack of Kewbury 71 

John Bull sobered down . .140 

KiTCHEK, the, and its furniture 2 2 

„ fire-places .... 22 
Kitchens of housekeepers witli 

small incomes 39 

Ivnives^and forks and spoons . 24 

Ladv's first' lesson, a ... 12 

Lady carvers 151 

London milk ' . 115 



PAGE 

Lard and dripping crusts . . 113 

„ hints on 115 

Larding 1^5 

Letter from Times, " U. H. M." 8 

„ from Pioich . . . . 13 

Liebig on boiling 27 

" Lifting" sauces 87 

Lightness in making pastry . 112 

Lighting dinner tables . . . 149 

List of the seasons .... IGO 

Lobster soup 78 

„ sauce 91 

„ salad 171 

Lord Byron's dinner in Florence 116 

„ Dudley's opiilion of a 

dinner 149 

„ Chesterfield's dinner . .158 

Louis XYI. and pig's trotters . 31 
Luxury of having things " hot 

and hot" 151 



MANAGE51ENT of bfeds . . . 

^larrow-bones 

Mashed potatoes * . . . . 

„ turnips 

Meat puddings and pies . . . 
Meditation on a pudding . . 
Method of cooking chops and 

steaks in the City .... 
Milk • . 

„ scalding 

Minced veal 

Mincemeat a la Tickletooth . 
Misery of following the fashion 
Blocker}'- of a menu .... 

Mock turtle- soup 

„ as at Birch's . 

„ pie 

Mulligatawney soup .... 



18 

54 

98 

104 

131 

114 



115 

115 

49 

130 

150 

15 

63 

64 

65 

70 



KiroLEON I. at Dresden , .103 
„ tossing a pancake . 129 
Necessity of batliing .... 20 
„ having good cook- 
ing utensils 22 

„ a great deal of fat 

in frying 42 

" Never mind," and '' That will 

do" ......... 26 

New potatoes 99 

No choice in dining . • . . 10 

Note on frying-pans . . . . 23 

„ the theory of cookery 35 

„ beating eggs ... 42 



IITDEX. 



191 



PAGE 

Isote in favour of soup ... 82 

„ on French spinach . . 100 

Nuisance of extra servants . .149 

Obscukity of old cookery- 
books 24 

Oil for frying 35 

Old mattresses and beds . . 10 
Old-fashioned gridirons ... 23 
,, way of making 

gravy 84 

Omelettes 126 

„ souflaees .... 12S 

Onions 101 

,, for ragouts .... 102 

„ for roasting .... 102 

„ with potatoes ... 99 

Origin of preparatory browning 2 9 
Ornament for pies . . . .131 

" Other ways of cooking" . . 59 
Our impediments to progress in 

cookery 36 

Our soldiers in the Crimea . . 58 

Ox-tail soup 76 

Oyster soup 79 

„ sauce 92 

„ potato-balls . . . .100 

Paxcakes 93 

Parsley and butter .... 93 
Pastrycook's mock turtle . . 80 
Pastry indigestible . . . .110 

Peas-pudding 74 

Pea taming 73 

Philosophy of the culinary art 35 

Plain mutton broth .... 79 

„ gravy for roast poultry 

and game 85 

„ melted butter .... 89 
„ plum pudding . . . .119 
„ suet pudding . . . .120 
„ rice pudding . . . .121 
„ bread pudding . . . .121 

„ chicken pie 132 

„ pigeon pie 133 

„ receipts for plain dishes* 38 
Poor Man's pudding . . . .121 

Pork pies 135 

„ stuffing 137 

Potatoes a la maitre d'hotel . 50 
Pot au feu, or black pot. . . 58 

Potato balls 99 

„ cake 100 



PAGE 

Potatoes, Lancashire way . . 98 
„ with a bone in them 95 
Preparatory browning ... 29 
Preparation for frying soles . 41 
Preservation of the teeth . . 21 
Progress of Price's candle fac- 
tory 155 

Puddings and pies .... 110 

Puffpaste 113 

Punctuality of husbands . . 2G 
Purees 176 

QuiN, the actor, and John Dory 34 

Read, Mr., on onions . . . 101 
Reason for covei'iug saucepans 

closely 28 

Receipts . 38 

Recipe for a winter salad — 

Sydney Smith 109 

Receipts for French dishes . .16 8 
Reform in the hands of the 

ladies 37 

„ dinner-giving . .159 

Remarks on French cookery . 164 
Removing tartar from the teeth 20 
Rice boiled in the Indian 

fashion 125 

River fish .43 

Roasting 29 

Rowley powley, or bolster 

pudding 122 

" Rule of thumb ways" ... 37 

Salad— Sydney Smith ... 109 

Saucepans 24 

Sauce for wild ducks .... 86 

„ piquante for gravies, &c. S« 

Sauces to avoid ..... 12 

Savoury potato balls .... 100 

„ pigeon pie ... . 133 

Sawyer's London dinner . .145 

Scarlet runners 108 

Scolloped oysters 92 

Secret of roasting . .... 28 

Serving cheese 16 

Shrlmf) sauce 91 

ShilUng ordinaries . . . .145 

Short paste 113 

Simpson's fish dinners, Poultry 144 

Simpson's, Strand 146 

Slatternly servants .... 16 
Soda with vegetables . . .105 

„ with peas 107 



19: 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

t^onffloc 128 

tioiip, iintritive qualities of . 5!t 
,, old-fasliioned receipt . 50 

stretching (iS 

Spitrlicocked eels io 

J?l)iuacii, how to boil .... 105 

„ in the French manner 106 

Spring vegetable soup ... 69 

St. Jameses Hall 14G 

.Ste^ving 2S 

Stewed eels 44 

„ beef 5;! 

„ rump 51 

„ rum]) steak .... 55 

„ „ how to cut. 55 

steaming potatoes . . . . 'JS 

Stock 5S 

Stock pot ....... 58 

Stuffings 137 

Study of the poor man'd Avife . 1 7 

Suet crust 113 

Suet IIU 

„ best method of keeping . 116 

Summer cabbage 104 

Sweet omelettes 128 

Tea-kettles 24 

Tea and coll'ee pots .... 24 

Time required for roasting . . 28 
To boil potatoes in tlie Lanca- 

Siiire Avaj- 08 

„ knov.' when fat is ready for 

flyiiig 3-^ 

„ kill eels 44 

,, extract juice from vege- 
tables 40 



Tobacco-pipes . . . 
Toad in a hole . . . 
Tomato sauce . . . 
„ for flavouring 
Turnips 



PAfiE 

16 

134 

51 

51 
103 



Undivided attention to cooL 
ery 

Usefulness of a menu 

Yaciiettes 

Yauxhall carving-knife , 
Yeal cutlet . . . . , 

„ and ham pies . , 

„ stuffing ... 

„ sweetbread in soup 
Yegetable marrow 
Yile method of frying cutlets 



AYasuixg utensils . . . 
"Webster's (Mr.) dinner . . 
AVellington, St. James's- street 

White-bait 

AVhite eel-soup 

,, sauce 

"Whom to invite to dinner . 
"Why cold water is added t( 

hot in boiling .... 
AVliy a cookery book is interest 



"Winter vegetable 
bouilli . . . . 



soup an 



pea-soup 



2(; 

10 

142 
24 
30 

132 

137 
66 

100 
40 

20 
157 
145 

178 
77 
87 
14 

97 

7 

60 



Yeast, or Norfolk dumplings . 121 
Yorkshire pudding .... I2"i 



THE END. 



ROUTLEDGES CHEAP LITERATURE. 



BY "W. H. AIKS WORTH. 

In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling each, boards. 
Saixt James's. James II. (Edited by.) 

Price 1*. Gd. each, boards. 
Miser's Daughter. | "Wi.vdsor Castle. 

Guy Faxvkes. Crichto.v. 

Spendthrift. I RooiWOOD. 

Price 25. each, boards ; or in cloth gilt, 25. 6d. 
Tower of Londo.v. 1 Lancashire AVitches. 

Old St. Paul's. I Mervyn Clitheroe. 

Flitch of Baco.v. 
" It is scarcely surprising that Harrison Ainsworth should have secured to him- 
self a very wide popularity, when we consider how happily he has chosen his 
themes. Sometimes, by the luckiest inspiration, a romance of captivating and en- 
thralling fascinations, such as • Crichton,' the 'Admirable Crichton.' Some- 
times the scene and the very title of some renowned structure, a palace, a prison, 
or a fortress. It is thus with the ' Tower of London," ' Windsor Castle,' ' Old 
St. Paul's,' &c. But the readers of Mr. Ainsworth— who number tfiousands 
upon thousands— need hardly be informed of this; and now that a uniform edi- 
tion of h's works is published, we do not doubt but that this large number of 
readers even will be considerably increased." — Sun. 



BY FREDERICK GERSTAECKER. 

In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling and Sixpence each, boards. 
Wild Sports of the Far West. | Pirates of the Mississippi. 
Price Two Shillings, boards, or cl. 25. 6d. Price One Shilling, boards. 

Two Convicts (The). | Hauntkd House (The). 

Feathered Arrow (The). A Sailor's Adventures. 

Each for Himself. | 

" Gerstaecker's books abound in adventure and scenes of excitement; and are 
fully equal, in that respect, to the stories either of Marryat, Cooper, or Dana." 



BY THE ROVING ENGLISHMAN, 

In fcap. 8vo, price I5. boards. In fcap. Bvo, price 2*. boards. 

The Roving Englishman; or, I Turkey, by the Rovine Englishman; 

Sketches on the Continent. | being Sketches from Life. 

" Who is unfamiliar with those brilliant sketches of naval, particularlv the pic- 
tures of Turkish life and manners, from the pen of the 'Roving Enali-hman,' 
and who does not hail their collection into a companionable-sizt^d volume with 
delight?" 



BY W. H, PRE SCOTT. 

In fcap. Bvo, price 25. each volume, boards; or cloth, Ss. 6d. 

History of the Reign of Ferdinand and Isabella. 2 vols. 
History of the Conquest of Mexico. 2 vols. 
History of the Conquest of Peru. 2 vols. 
History of the Reign of PniLrp thk Second. 2 vols. 
History of the Retgn of Ch akles the Fifth. 2 vols. 
Biographical and Critical Essays. 1 vol. 
History of the Reign of Philip the Second. Vol. 3 



ROUTLEDGES CHEAP LITERATURE. 



ROUTIiBDGB'S ORIGINAIi NOVSIiS. 

In Fancy Boarded Covers. 

1 The Curse of Gold, {Is.) By R. W. Jameson. 

2 The Family Feud. (2s.) By Thomas Cooper. 

3 The SicRF Sisters. (Is.) By John Harwood. 

4 Pride of the Mess, (\s.6d.) By the Auihor of "Cavendish." 

5 Frank Hilton. (2s.) By James Grant. 

6 My Brother's Wife. (ls.6d.) By Miss Edwards. 

7 Adriex. (l5. (id.) By the Autlior of " Zlngra the Gipsy." 

8 Yellow Frigatb. (2s.} By James Grant. 

9 Evelyn Forester, d^. 6a.) By Marguerite A. Power. 

10 Harry^ Ogilvie. (25.1 By James Grant. 

11 Ladder of Life. Cls.Gd.) By Miss Edwards. 

12 The Two Convicts. (25.) By Frederick Gerstaecker. 

13 Deeds, not Words. (2s.) By M. Bell. 

14 The Feathered Arrow. (2s.) By Frederick Gerstaecker. 

15 Ties of Kindred. [Is.Gd.) By Owen Wynn. 

16 Will he Marry Her? (2s.) Bv John Lang. 

17 Skcrkt of a Life. (2?.) By M. M. Bell. 

18 Loyal Heart; or, the Trappers. (I5. 6d.) 

19 The Ex-Wife. (2s.) By John Lansf. 

20 Arthur Blank. (2s.) By James Grant. 

21 Highlanders OF Glen 6ra. (2.s-.) By James Grant." 

22 Each for Himself. (2s.) Gerstaecker. 

23 Chief of the Aucas. (23.) By the Author of " The Loyal Heart." 



BV MISS EEGE-WORTH. 

In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling each, boards ; or, in cloth. Is. 6d. 
Tk \bsentek. I Manoeuvring. 

Ennui. | Vivian. 

**Sir Walter Scott, in speaking of Miss Edgeworth, says, that the rich humour, 
pathetic tenderness, and admirable tact that she displayed in her sketches of 
character, led him first to think that something might be attempted fur his own 
country of the same kind with that which Miss Edgeworth fortunately achieved 
for hers." 



BY IiADY CATS-SARIS^B L.OI^G. 

In fcap. 8vo, price Two Shillings each, boards; or, in cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. 
Sir Roland Ashton. | The First Lieutenant's Story. 



BV "WASHIiJffGTOIff ISVSSffG. 
In fcap. 8vo, price One Shilling each, boards ; or, in cloth, Is. 6d. 
Oliver Goldsmith. I Knickerbocker's New York. 

Lives of .Mahomet's Successors (The). Woolfert's Roost. 
Salmagundi. 



BY THE MISSBS ^WAHNBR. 
In fcap. 8vo, price Two Shillings each, boards ; or, in cloth, 25. 6d. 
Queechy. I Wide, Wide World (The). 

Price Eighteenpcnce, board*, , Price One Shilling, boards. 

Hills of the Suatemuc (Tjufi. \ My Brother's Kesper. 



7 



I 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

3 9999 05987 760 3 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



(Sept., 1886, 20,000) 

BOSTOlf PUBLIC LIBRARY. 

and juvenile books published within one veaftsvwiuffi;;" 
not to be renewed; to be reclaimed by messeniST^ter 21' 
days who will collect 20 cents besidesfine of 2 cents a dVv 
includin.c. Sundays and holidays; not to be lent out of the 

lurdirth^rsJir'^^' ^-^ '^-^ *^ ^^^ ^^-^^--^^^ - ^'e ^^e! 

d..f..?.T"''''''''^^ *^"'^'".- *'"^ ^""^ mutilated or unwarrantably 

;l^ ti:?:Se?/^?^Kl£;^p°^^ ^^^ ^-^^ ^'^^ -^ -^- ^^la^ 

*** No claim can be established because of the failure of 
any notice, to or from the Library, through the mail! 

The record below must not be made op altered by borrower, 



c 



\^ 



