/ 




ANCIENT NATIVES OP BRITAIN, ENCAMPED NEAR COLCHESTER. 
(From a curioun Glyptic in poKKesnou of the Author.) 



THE OYSTEE; 



WHERE, HOW, AND WHEN 



FIND, BREED, COOK 



.-.IV 



EAT IT 







rv . 
LONDON: ^ 

TRTJBT^EE & CO., 60, PATERIS'OSTEE ROW. 

MDCCCLXI. 



p 



a '^y^ 



LONDON 

WILLIAM SliiV£XS, PRINXER, 37, BELL XAfil), 
TEMPLE BAB. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTEE I. 

THE OYSTEE IN SEASON. 

The R. canon correct ; Alimentary Qualities of the Oyster ; 
Profitable Investment ; Billingsgate, and London Consump- 
tion ; English Oyster-beds ; Jersey Oysters ; French Oyster- 
beds on the Coast of Brittany 9 

CHAPTER II. 

ANCIENT HISTOEY OF THE OYSTEE. 

The Ancients ; Oysters a Greek and Roman Luxury ; Sergius 
Orata, and the Oyster-beds of Baia ; Immense Consumption 
at Rome ; Failure of the Circean and Lucrinian Oyster-beds 
under Domitian, and Introduction of Rutupians from Britain ; 
Agricola, Constantino, and Helena ; Athenian Oysters, and 
Aristides 21 

CHAPTER III. 

MODEEN HISTOEY OF THE OYSTEE. 

FaU of the Rutupian Supremacy ; Louis IV. and WiUiam of Nor- 
mandy ; Conquest of England, and Revival of Oyster-eating 
in England ; The Oyster under Legal Protection ; American 
Oysters 24 



VI CONTENTS. 

CHAPTEK IV. 

THE OYSTER AT HOME. 

Its Nature, Colour, and Structure ; Natural Food ; Perception 
of the changes of Light ; Uses of the Celia ; Fecundity and 
Means of Propagation ; Age ; Fossil Oysters in Berkshire 
and in the Pacific ; Power of Locomotion . . .28 

CHAPTER V. 

THE OYSTER IN ITS NEW SETTLEMENT. 

Dredging for Oysters ; Oyster-beds and their formation; Sergius 
Orata ; Pliny the Elder ; Baia and the Lucrine Sea ; Roman 
Epicurism and Gluttony ; Martial and Horace, Cicero and 
Seneca ; Masticate Oysters, and do not bolt them whole ; 
Mediterranean and Atlantic Oysters ; Agricola and the 
Rutupians; Apicius Cnelius, Trajan, Pliny, and the Viva- 
rium 37 



CHAPTER YI. 

THE OYSTER ON ITS TRAYELS. 

The Isle of Sheppey, the Medway, and Whitstable ; Milton, 
Queenborough, Rochester, and Faversham Oysters; Col- 
chester and Essex Beds; Edinburgh Bandores and Aber- 
dours ; Dublin Carlingfords and Powldoodies ; Poole and 
its Oyster-bank ; Cornish Oysters and the Helford Beds ; 
Poor Tyacke, and How he was Done ; Dredgers and theii* 
Boats; Auld Reekie's Civic Ceremonial; Song of the 
Oyster ; its Voyage to Market, and Journey by Coach and 
Rail 45 



CONTENTS. Vll 

CHAPTER VII. 

THE OYSTER AT ITS JOUENEY's END. 

Oyster Stalls; How to Open the Oyster; an Oyster Supper; 
Beer, Wines, and Spirits ; Eoasted, Fried, Stewed, and Scol- 
loped Oysters ; Oyster Soup, and Oyster Sauce ; Broiled 
Oysters ; Oyster Pie ; Oyster Toast ; Oyster Patties ; Oyster 
Powder ; Pickled Oysters ; Oyster Loaves ; Oyster Omelet ; 
Cabbage, Larks, and Oysters ; and Frogs and Oysters . 54 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE OYSTER ANT) THE DOCTOR. 

Oyster-eating in Prussia ; Disgusting Wagers ; Oysters better 
than Pills, A Universal Remedy ; Professional Opinions ; 
When Ladies should eat them ; Repugnance overcome ; Oys- 
ters as an External Apphcation ; Chemical Analysis ; How 
to tell if Dead before Opening 68 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE OYSTER ABROAD. 

British Oysters in Ostend Quarters ; the AVhitstable in a Slow 
Coach ; Holstein, Schleswig, and Heligoland Natives ; Nor- 
wegian and Bremer Oysters ; American Oysters ; French 
Oysters ; Dutch Oysters ; Mediterranean Oysters and Clas- 
sical Judges 75 



VUl CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER X. 

" THE TREASTJRE OF AN OYSTER." 

Sweet names given to Pearls ; Barry Cornwall Proctor's lines ; 
Component parts of Pearls ; Mother-of-pearl ; How Pearls 
are formed, Son-ows into Gems ; Their nucleus ; Sir Everard 
Home and Sir David Brewster ; Curious shapes and fancy 
Jewellery ; Pearl Fisheries ; Bahrein Island and Bay of Can- 
dalchy ; Miseries of the Divers ; Pearls as Physic ; Immense 
value of recorded Pearls ; A Perle for a Prince ; Most pre- 
cious Pearls 82 



THE OYSTER. 



CHAPTEE I. 

THE OYSTER IN SEASON". 

The Rr. canon correct ; Alimentary Qualities of the Oyster ; 
Profitable Investment ; Billingsgate, and London Con- 
sumption ; English Oyster-beds ; Jersey Oysters ; French 
Oyster-beds on the Coast of Brittany. 

~P THE Millions who live to eat 
and eat to live in this wide 
world of ours, how few are 
there who do not, at proper 
times and seasons, enjoy a 
good oyster. It may not 
be an ungrateful task, 
therefore, if I endeavour 
to inform them what spe- 
cies of animal the little 
succulent shell - fish is, 
that affords to man so 
much gastronomical en- 
joyment — how born and 
bred and nurtured ; when, 
and where; and, lastly, how best it may be eaten, 
whether in its living and natural state, or having 




10 THE OYSTEE. 

undergone the ordeal of cooking by the skill of a 
superior artist. 

I have oftentimes been told that it is a mere question 
of fastidiousness, or fashion, that oysters should be served 
for human food only at a certain fixed period of the 
year — those months possessing the letter r being pro- 
verbially the only months when the oyster is fit for 
human food. Why not, such reasoners have said, eat 
oysters all the year round ? Life is short. Why not 
obtain the first of gastronomical enjoyments every month 
of the year and every day of the month ? I can in no 
manner go with these opinions, either from my practical 
knowledge of the oyster, or from any just reasoning. 

I am aware that there are many good men and true, 
and others calling themselves, somewhat erroneously, 
sportsmen, beyond the white clifi's of Britain, who 
would eat an oyster on the hottest day of June and July 
as they would a partridge, a pheasant, or a salmon at 
any season of the year. Sufficient the names oyster, 
partridge, pheasant — all gastronomical delights — all to 
be eaten, and by them eaten whensoever and where- 
soever served, what matters it ? I am also aware 
that in our good City of London, in the hottest and 
earKest days of August,"^' oysters are gulped down by 

* The common Colchester and Faversham oysters are 
brought to market on the 5th of August. They are called 
Common oysters, and are picked up on the French coast, and 
then transferred to those beds ; the Milton, or, as they are 
commonly called, the melting Natives, the true Rutupians, do 
not come in till the beginning of October, continue in season 
till the ].2th oft May, and approach the meridian of their per- 
fection about Christmas. The denizens from France are not 



THE OTSTEK. 11 

the thousand: it is, nevertheless, an error — a revolt- 
ing, unhealthy, unclean error — which ought to he 
denied, both at home and abroad, by the strong hand of 
the law. 

I, for my part, utterly and entirely ignore fish or 
fowl of the game species, as fit for human food dui'ing 
the seasons of breeding ; and although an oyster may 
be eatable in August, if the month be hot it is rarely 
fresh; and what is more disgusting or more likely 
to be injurious to man than a stale oyster ? That 
which I have said, however, on the oyster in this little 
book which I offer to the million — for the million are 
interested in the subject — will, I hope, induce those who 
have hitherto broken through a rule strictly adhered to 
by all gastronomes, to abstain in future ; and those 
who have hitherto enjoyed oyster-eating, fearlessly to 
eat on and secure the first and foremost of all gastrono- 
mical indulgences provided for man — only in due season. 

On the 25th of July, says Erand, the antiquary, being 
St. James the Apostle's Day, the priests of old were 
wont to bless apples; and a popular belief too, in 1588, 
though generally ignored in the more enlightened days 
in which we live, was, that whoever ate oysters on 
that day would not be without money for the remainder 
of the year. This is very probable, for without they 
were selected with great care, disease and even death 
might follow. This conjunction of apples and oysters 
on St. James's Day may have suggested Bianca's remark 

to be compared to British Native oysters, which are so called 
because they are bom, bred, and fed in this country. These 
do not come to perfection till they are four years old. 

B 2 



12 THE OYSTER. 

in the "Taming of the Shrew," when comparing the 
resemblance of the old Pedant to that of Vincentio, which 
she remarks was as complete as that of an oyster to an 
apple. 

One must, therefore, take care not to eat oysters dur- 
ing the months of June and July, because they are un- 
wholesome on account of the spawning-time ; and also be 
careful in their selection in August. There are instances 
when persons, after having eaten oysters during these 
months, have become ill, and have even died. Last 
summer, at Ostend, thirty persons were taken ill in 
consequence of having eaten oysters in the month of 
July. They are, during these months, very thin, and 
without taste ; in the month of September they become 
again fat and eatable, which may be accounted for by 
the fact of their being self-generated. The strength 
of the poor oysters is entirely spent in fattening them- 
selves, in order the more to tickle the palate of the 
epicure iu the proper season. 

Now let us proceed to open the oyster. 

The Oyster ! The mere vrriting of the word creates 
sensations of succulence — gastronomical pleasures, nu- 
tritive food, easy digestion, palatable indulgence — then 
go sleep in peace ! 

Lobster salads, beef and veal, truffles and chestnuts, 
all good in their way, are, nevertheless, attended with 
evU consequences to the human frame. 

But oysters — ye pleasant companions of the midnight 
hours, or the mid-day feast ; is there a man, woman or 
child in all Europe — ay, or in Asia, Africa, or America 
— who does not owe you a debt of gratitude which they 



THE OYSTER. 13 

repay to the full by the enjoyment of your society tete-a 
Ute ? You are eaten raw and alive, cooked and scolloped, 
in sauce and without sauce. True, true, oh oyster ! thou 
art the best beloved of the loved !, 

The oyster, when eaten moderately, is, without con- 
tradiction, a wholesome food, and one of the greatest 
delicacies in the world. It contains much nutritive 
substance, which is very digestive, and produces a pecu- 
liar charm and an inexplicable pleasure. After having 
eaten oysters we feel joyous, light, and agreeable — 
yes, one might say, fabulously well. He who has eaten 
for the fii'st time oysters is best enabled to judge of this ; 
for, soon after having eaten them, he will experience a 
sensation he never felt before, and never had an idea of. 
This sensation scarcely remains with people who eat 
oysters every day; it is more practically felt when 
oysters are eaten for breakfast or before dinner, although 
they are also very wholesome in the evening, when taken 
moderately. Gourmets and epicures eat the oyster in 
its natural state, except that the beard is taken away. 
In England it is eaten with pepper, in Holland with 
vinegar, in Germany frequently with lemon-juice ; but 
I am of the opinion, and am convinced, that when taken 
with the liquor they still contain, they are more diges- 
tible and more tasty. The opinion that this fluid is 
salt water, is an error ; it is the white blood of the 
oyster itself, which it emits when injured in having its 
upper shell broken off. If it were sea- water, it would 
have a disagreeable bitter taste, and cause sickness ; but 
as this does not take place, but on the contrary gives a 
fine taste to the oyster, the error is evident. The error 



14 THE OYSTEE. 

appears to arise from the fact that unconscientious oyster 
dealers wash the oysters with salt and water in order to 
give them a better appearance, as they say. 

*' The oyster," says a wi'iter in jS'o. 824 of the 
*' Family Herald" — that most agreeable of all window- 
seat books — *'is a species of food combining the most 
precious alimentary qualities. Its meat is soft, firm, 
and delicate. It has sufiicient flavour to please the 
taste, but not enough to excite to surfeit. Through 
a quality peculiar to itself, it favours the intestinal and 
gastric absorption, mixing easily with other food ; and, 
assimilating with the juices of the stomach, it aids and 
favours the digestive functions. There is no other alimen- 
tary substance, not even excepting bread, which does not 
produce indigestion under certain given circumstances, 
but oysters never. This is a homage due to them. They 
may be eaten to-day, to-mon'ow, for ever, in profusion ; 
indigestion is not to be feared, and we may be certain 
that no doctor was ever called in through their fault. 
Of course we except cooked oysters. Besides their 
valuable digestive qualities, oysters supply a recipe not 
to be despised in the liquor they contain. It is produced 
by the sea-water they have swallowed, but which, hav- 
ing been digested, has lost the peculiar bitterness of salt 
water. This oyster- water is limpid, and slightly saline 
in taste. Far from being purgative, like sea-water, it 
promotes digestion. It keeps the oysters themselves 
fresh, prolongs their life for some time until it is des- 
troyed in our stomachs, or until the oyster has been 
transformed into a portion of ourselves." 

The degree of importance which different persons 



THE OYSTER. 15 

attach to matters connected with the world in which 
we live, depends, of course, in a great measure, on the 
manner in which they view them. 

One person considers a loving wife, and four hun- 
dred a year, wealth and happiness; another would be 
miserable without four thousand, and could dispense 
with the wife. Some consider a post with five thousand 
a year a tolerable means of existence ; others a commis- 
sionership with twelve hundred. Some seek a good 
consulship; others, till they have travelled from St. 
Petersburg and back in a telega, or sledge, half a dozen 
times during mid- winter, use the interest, which in 
other days would have secured a snug governorship, 
even in the Island of Barataria, to obtain a queen's 
messenger's place. At least so it used to be. "Whether 
competitive examinations will lead to our having the 
right man in the right place, the round pegs in round 
holes, and the square pegs in square ones, still remains 
to be seen. And so is it with most things in life, 
whether personal or gastronomical. Different men are 
of different opinions ; some like apples, and some like — 
onions ; but I have scarcely ever yet met with the man 
who has refused a thoroughly good oyster. 

There is not a man, however unobservant, but knows 
that oysters are a great source of profit to some of that 
multitude which rises every morning without knowing 
exactly how, when, and where it shall dine. Billings- 
gate in the oyster season is a sight and a caution. Boats 
coming in loaded ; porters struggling with baskets and 
sacks ; early loungers looking on — it is so pleasant to 
see other people work — buyers and cheapeners, the fish 



16 THE OYSTER. 

salesman in his rostrum, the wealthy purchaser who can 
lay out his hundreds and buy his thousands — all to be 
met with, together with that noise and bustle, and, far 
beyond it, all that incredible earnestness which always 
distinguishes an English market. 

Oysters, says Diyasdust, in his very useful commer- 
cial work — in which, however, he makes alarming mis- 
statements — oysters ai-e consumed in London in incredi- 
ble quantities, " and notwithstanding their high price, 
are largely eaten by the middle and lower classes !" 

Thanking Dryasdust for his information, and being 
one of the great middle class ourselves, we can safely 
assert that oysters are not high in price. Fancy being 
able to purchase twelve succulent dainties for one six- 
pence at Ling's or Quin's, at Proctor's or Pim's, or any 
other celebrated shell-fish shop! Twelve ''lumps of 
delight," as the Mussulman — not mussel man — calls his 
sweetmeats ! and then fancy Dryasdust saying that they 
are high in price ! Oh shame, where is thy blush ! 

A farm of four acres, if well handled, may give occupa- 
tion, and even bring pecuniary gain, to the possessor. A 
garden, for those who thoroughly understand and enjoy 
it, may secure untold pleasures, and perhaps help to pay 
the rent of the cottage. But an " oyster-bed" is a plea- 
sure — an el dorado — a mine of wealth, in fact, which fills 
the owners' pockets with gold, and aff'ords to the million 
untold gastronomical enjoyment and healthy food. On 
the money part of the question, the Scientific and Use- 
ful column, of Number 825 of the " Family Herald" fur- 
nishes the following information : ''A very interesting 
report has been recently made to the French Government 



THE OYSTEE. 17 

on the results of experiments made for the improvement 
of oyster-beds. The locality chosen was the hay of St. 
Brieux, on the coast of Brittany. Between March and 
May, 1859, about 3,000,000 oysters, taken from different 
parts of the sea, were distributed in ten longitudinal beds 
in the above bay. The bottom was previously covered 
•\Aith old oyster shells and boughs of trees arranged like 
fascines. To these the young oysters attach themselves, 
and so fruitful are the results that one of the fascines 
was found at the end of six months to have no less than 
20,000 young oysters on it. The report further states 
that 12,000 hectares may be brought into full bearing 
in three years at an annual expense not exceeding 10,000 
francs." 

M. Laviciare, Commissary of the Maritime Inscription, 
in his 1860 report to M. Coste, of the success of these 
operations in the Bay of St. Brieux, states that " a 
recent examination has fully and satisfactorily proved 
the advantageous results obtained on the five banks 
which have been laid dowTi, and which have exceeded 
the most sanguine expectations. Three fascines, which 
were taken up indiscriminately from one of the banks 
formed in June, 1859, contained about 20,000 oysters 
each, of from one inch to two inches in diameter. The 
total expense for forming the above bank was 221f. ; and if 
the 300 fascines laid down on it be multiplied by 20,000, 
600,000 oysters will be obtained, which, if sold at 20f. 
a thousand, will produce 120,000f. If, however, the 
number of oysters on each fascine were to be reckoned 
at only 10,000, the sum of 60,000f. would be received, 
which, for an expenditure of only 22 If. would give 



18 THE OYSTER. 

a larger profit than any other known branch of in- 
dustry." 

But the breeding and fattening of the London oyster 
has long been a lucrative branch of trade, of which 
Cockaine may well be proud. It is carried on '^ con- 
tagious" to London, as Mrs. Malaprop would say — 
principally in Essex and Kent. The rivers Crouch, 
Blackwater, and Colne are the chief breeding places 
in the former, and the channel of the Swale and the 
Medway in the latter. These are contiguous to Milton ; 
hence Dibdin's song, and hence also the corruption of 
"melting hoysters;" melting they are too. The cor- 
ruption is classical, so let it stand. 

Exclusive of oysters bred in Essex and Kent, vast 
numbers are brought from Jersey, Poole, and other places 
along the coast, and are fattened in beds. The export 
of oysters from Jersey alone is very considerable, hav- 
ing amounted on an average of the four years ending 
with 1832-^' to 208,032 bushels a year. The Jersey 
fishing then employed, during the season, about 1500 
men, 1000 women and children, and 250 boats. Think 
of this, ye oyster-eaters ! Think that ye are doing — such 
is the wise ordination of an overruling Providence — some 
good when you are swallowing your ante-prandial 
oyster, and are giving employment to some portion of 
those 3000 people who work for you at Jersey, besides 
helping to feed the cold-fingered fishmonger, who, with 
blue apron and skilful knife, tempts you to '^ Hanother 
dazzen, sir?" 

* The exportation has by this time nearly doubled, but these 
are the latest statistics we can arrive at. 



THE OTSTEE. 19 

Of the quantity of oysters consumed in London we 
cannot give even an approximate guess. It must 
amount to millions of bushels. Fancy, if you can, also, 
that curiously courteous exchange which goes on every 
Christmas between our oyster-eating country cousins 
and our turkey and goose-loving Londoners. To the 
man 

" Who hath been long in city pent, 
'Tis very sweet to gaze upon the fair 
And open brow of heaven ; — to breathe a prayer 
Full in the face of the blue firmament" — 

sings John Keats. Oh, if he had been but an oyster- 
eater, that article from the '' Quarterly," savage and 
slaughterly, would not have killed him ; but it is also 
very sweet to gaze upon a turkey, a leash of birds, a 
brace of pheasants, and, as Mrs. Tibbetts hath it, "a. 
real country hare." Such a present is promptly repaid 
by a fine cod packed in ice, and two barrels of oysters. 
How sweet are these when eaten at a country home, 
and opened by yourselves, the barrel being paraded on 
the table with its top knocked out, and with the 
whitest of napkins round it, as we shall presently have 
occasion to show. How sweet it is, too, to open 
some of the dear natives for your pretty cousin, and 
to see her open her sweet little mouth about as wide as 
Lesbia's sparrow did for his lump of — not sugar, it was 
not then invented — but lump of honey ! How sweet it 
is, after the young lady has swallowed her half dozen, 
to help yourself ! The oyster never tastes sweeter than 
when thus operated on by youi^self, so that you do not 
''job" the knife into your hand! True labour has a 



20 THE OYSTEE. 

dignity about it. The only time when I, who have 
seen most people, from Tom Thumb to the Benicia Boy, 
from Madame Doche to the Empress Eugenie, and from 
manly, sea-going Prince Alfi'ed to the Staleybridge 
Infant and Jemmy Shaw's " Spider" — the only time, I 
say, that I have ever seen a nobleman look like a noble- 
man, was when a noble duke, a peer not only of 
England and Scotland, but of la helle France also, owned 
that he could do two things better than most people, 
and that was, open oysters and polish his own boots. 
I, like Othello, when he upbraided lago for the last 
time, ''looked down to his feet," but found that it 
was no fable. 

So important is our illustrious bivalve as an article 
of trade, that it is protected by law. It is said that the 
only two things that George the Fourth ever did — the 
great Georgius, whom Mr. Thackeray envies and satirises 
— were to invent a shoe-buckle and an exquisite hair-dye.,^ 
The brains of the black Brunswicker could do no more. 
But there is one act also — an Act of Parliament"^' — which 
was passed in his reign, for which he is to be thanked. 
The man who was at once the Lucullus and Apicius of 
his times must have had some hand in the framing of 
that Act. 

* See page 25. 



THE OTSTEK. 21 



CHAPTER II. 

AT^CIENT HISTORY OF THE OTSTEE. 

The Ancients ; Oysters a Greek and Koman Luxury ; Sergius 
Grata and the Oyster-beds of Baia ; Immense Consump- 
tion at Rome ; Failure of the Circean and Lucrinian 
Oyster-beds under Domitian, and Introduction of Rutupians 
fi'om Britain ; Agi'icola, Constantine, and Helena ; Athenian 
Oysters and Ai'istides. 

HORACE, Martial, and Juvenal, Cicero and Seneca, 
Pliny, ^tius, and tlie old Greek doctor Oribasius, 
whom Julian the Apostate delighted to honour, and 
other men of taste amongst the ancients, have enlarged 
upon the various qualities of the oyster; and was it 
not to Sergius Grata that we owe our present oyster- 
beds ; for he it was who introduced layers or stews for 
oysters at Baia, the Brighton of ancient Rome, as we 
have them at present. That was in the days when 
luxury was rampant, and when men of great wealth, like 
Licinius Crassus, the leviathan slave merchant, rose to 
the highest honours; for this dealer in human flesh 
in the boasted land of liberty, served the of&ce of consul 
along with Pompey the Great, and on one occasion re- 
quired no less than 10,000 tables to accommodate all 
his guests. How many barrels of oysters were eaten at 
that celebrated dinner, the ''Ephemerides" — as Plutarch 
caUs ''The Times" and '' Morning Post" of that day- 
have omitted to state; but as oysters then took the 



22 THE OYSTER. 

place that turtle-soup now does at our great City feeds, 
imagination may busy itself if it likes with the calcu- 
lation. All we know is, that oysters then fetched very 
long prices at Eome, as the author of the '' Tabella 
Cibaria" has not failed to tell us ; and then, as now, the 
high price of any luxury of the table was sure to make 
a liberal supply of it necessary, when a man like Crassus 
entertained half the city as his guests, to rivet his popu- 
larity. 

But the Eomans had a weakness for the " breedy 
creatures," as our dear old friend Chiistopher North 
calls them in his inimitable " jS'octes." In the time of 
Kero, some sixty years later, the consumption of oysters 
in the " Imperial City" was nearly as great as it now is 
in the " World's Metropolis ;" and there is a statement, 
which I recollect to have read somewhere, that during 
the reign of Domitian, the last of the twelve Caesars, a 
greater number of millions of bushels were annually 
consumed at Rome than I should care to swear to. 
These oysters, however, were but Mediterranean pro- 
du^ce — the small fry of Circe, and the smaller Lucrinians; 
and this um^easonable demand upon them quite exhausted 
the beds in that great fly-catcher's reign; and it was not 
till under the wise administration of Agricola in Britain, 
when the Eomans got their far-famed Eutupians from 
the shores of Kent, fi^om Eichborough and the Eeculvers 
— the Rutupi Portus of the '' Itinerary," of which the 
latter, the Regullium, near "Whitstable, in the mouth of 
the Thames, was the northern boundary — that Juvenal 
praised them as he does ; and he was right : for in the 
whole world there are no oysters like them ; and of aU 



THE OTSTEE. 23 

the '' breedy creatures" that glide, or have ever glided 
down the throats of the human race, our ''Natives" 
are probably the most delectable. Can we wonder, 
then, when Macrobius tells us that the Eoman pontiffs 
in the fourth centuiy never failed to have these Hutu- 
pians at table, particularly, feeling sure that Constantine 
the Great, and his mother, the pious Helena, must have 
canied their British tastes with them to Eome at that 
period. 

The Greeks have not said much in praise of oysters ; 
but then they knew nothing of Britain beyond its name, 
and looked upon it very much in the same light as we 
now regard the regions of the Esquimaux ; and as to the 
little dabs of w^atery pulps found in the Mediterranean, 
what are they but oysters in name ? Indeed, the best use 
the Athenians could make of them was to use their shells . 
to ostracise any good citizen who, like Aristides, was 
too virtuous for a "Greek." However, on the plea 
that oysters are oysters, we presume — ^for it could not 
be on account of their flavour — "oysters," says the 
author of the "Tabella Cibaria," "were held in great 
esteem by the Athenians." Ko doubt when Constantine 
moved the seat of the Empii^e from E-ome to Constanti- 
nople, he did not forget to have his Eutupians regularly 
forwarded; so, perhaps, after all it was our "^N'atives," 
which thus found their way into Greece, that they 
delighted in ; and if so, the good taste of the Athenians 
need not be called into question ; but, as in literature 
and the arts, in oyster-eating too, it deserves to be held 
up to commendation. 



24 THE OYSTER. 



CHAPTEU III. 

MODERN HISTORY OF THE OYSTER. 

Fall of the Rutupian Supremacy ; Louis IV. and William of Nor- 
mandy ; Conquest of England, and Revival of Oyster-eating 
in England ; The Oyster under Legal Protection ; American 
Oysters. 

WITH the fall of the Empire came also the fall of the 
Rutupian supremacy ; and even the Eoman Bri- 
tons, driven into Brittany and the mountains of Wales 
by their truculent Saxon persecutors, had to forego 
these luxuries of the table, unless, perhaps, Prince 
Arthur and his knights may now and then have opened 
a bushel when they were seated over their wine in that 
free and easy circle, which has become so celebrated as 
to have formed a literature of its own. From the fourth 
century, to which Macrobius brought us, to the reign of 
Louis IV. of France, the history of the oyster is a blank ; 
but that king revived the taste for our favourite, and 
during his captivity in jS'ormandy brought it again into 
request with his conqueror, Duke "William; so, when 
the Normans invaded England under William the Con- 
queror — the descendant of that Duke William, little 
more than a century later — they were not long in find- 
ing out how much Kentish and Essex oysters were 
preferable to those of France. 

Since then the Oyster has held its own against aU 



THE OTSTEfi. 25 

comers, as one of the most welcome accessories to the 
table of rich and poor, and has been protected in his 
rights and immunities by various Acts of Parliament. 
*'In the month of May oysters cast their spawn," says 
an old writer in the '' Transactions of the Eoyal Society," 
*' which the di^edgers call spat, and this spawn cleaves 
to stones, old oyster-shells, pieces of wood, and other 
substances at the bottom of the sea, which is called 
cultch. Duiing that month, by the law of the Admiralty 
Coiu't, the dredgers have liberty to take every kind of 
oyster, whatsoever be its size. When they have taken 
them they gently raise with a knife the small brood 
from the cultch, and then they throw the cultch in 
again, to preserve the ground for the fiiture, unless they 
are so newly spat, that they cannot be safely severed 
from the cultch, in which case they are permitted tc 
take the stone or shell, which the spat is upon, one shell 
having often twenty spats. After the month of May, it 
is felony to carry away the cultch, and punishable to 
take any other oysters except those of the size of a half- 
crown piece, or such as when the two shells are shut will 
admit of a shilling to rattle between them." These 
brood and other oysters are carried to creeks of the sea, 
and thrown into the channel, which are called their 
beds or layers, where they grow and fatten, and in two 
or three years oysters of the smallest brood reach the 
standard size. 

The property in oyster beds is defined by the 7 & 8 
George lY., c. 29, s. 36, which makes it larceny for 
any person to steal any oyster or oyster brood from any 
oyster bed belonging to another person, if such bed is 

c 



S6 TBj; OYSTEE. 

sufficiently marked out and known as such ; and even 
the attempt to take either oysters or oyster brood from 
such an oyster bed, though none be actually distui'bed, 
is a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment, 
or both, though nothing is to prevent the fishing for 
floating fish within the limits of any oj'ster fishery. 

The Admiralt}' Court also imposes great penalties 
upon those who do not destroy a fish, which they call 
Fivefingers (the crossfish, or common starfish of our 
coasts), because it is supposed that that fish gets into the 
oysters when they gape, and sucks them out. That it 
is injuiious to oyster beds may be true ; for its food, in 
part, consists of moUusks. It does not, however, walk 
into the oyster bodily, as the Admiralty Court suggests, 
but rather appears to overpower its prey by applying 
some poisonous secretion, and pouting out the lobes of 
the stomach, so as to convert them into a kind of pro- 
boscis, and thus suck the moUusks from their shells. 

The reason of the penalty for destroying the cultch is 
that the ouse then will increase, and mussels and cockles 
will breed there and destroy the oysters, because they 
have no convenience for depositing their spat. Hence, 
mud and sea-weeds are extremely injurious to the 
*' breedy creatures' " propagation and increase ; for no 
less than starfish, cockles, and mussels, other enemies 
amongst shellfish and crustaceous animals, particularly 
crabs and scollops, eagerly devour the oyster, when they 
can capture it. 

In America, where the quality of the native oyster, 
though little inferior to the larger species of Britain, is 
greatly over-rated, the legislature is now called upon to 



THE OTSTEK. 27 

make a similar provisioii for its protection against its 
greatest enemy, man. '' It has been estimated," says a 
correspondent in JS'o. 769 of the ''Family Herald," 
''that the State of Yii^ginia possesses an area of about 
1,680,000 acres of oyster beds, containing about 
784,000,000 bushels of oysters. It is also stated 
that the mother oyster spawns annually at least 
3,000,000 ; yet, notwithstanding this enormous pro- 
ductive power, and the vast extent of oyster beds, there 
is danger of the oyster being exterminated unless mea- 
sures are adopted to prevent fishermen from taking 
them at improper seasons of the year. It is therefore 
proposed to have either a flotilla of four steamboats 
employed to protect the oyster beds from piratical in- 
truders, or to farm out the oyster beds to private con- 
ti-actors to do with them as they please." 



c 2 



THE OYSTER. 



CHAPTETt lY. 

THE OYSTER AT HOME : 

Its Nature, Colour, and Structure ; Natural Food ; Perception 
of the changes of Light ; Uses of the Cilia ; Fecundity and 
Means of Propagation ; Age ; Fossil Oysters in Berkshire 
and in the Pacific ; Power of Locomotion. 

THE Oyster belongs to those MoUusks whicli are 
headless, having their gills in the form of mem- 
branous plates, and are named Lamellihranchiata, from 
the Latin word Lamella, a plate ; or Conchm, the Latin 
name for the whole family of oyster, scollop, cockle, 
mussel, and other well-known biyalves. Properly 
speaking, only six kinds are fit to take part in the 
gastromal treat, to say nothing of the sanitary advan- 
tages the family are good enough to provide for the 
world at large. These six peculiar and most agreeable 
aristocrats all belong to the family of .the common 
oyster, Ostrea edulis, by far the most important tribe, 
and in fact, that in behalf of whose meritorious qualities 
I have more particularly taken up my pen. 

The oyster bears different names in accordance to the 
localities in which it is found, whether on rocky ground, 
mud, or sand, and has different colours in different 
places. In Spain, oysters are found of a red and russet 
colour ; in IlljTia they are brown, but the fish is black, 
and in the Red Sea, of the colours of the rainbow. The 
green oyster, the Parisian delicacy, is brought from 



THE OTSTEE. 29 

Brittany ; but the same flavour and colour can be pro- 
duced by putting oysters into pits where the water is 
about three feet deep in the salt marshes, and where 
the sun has great power. In these they become green 
in three or four days; for these colours are derived 
from the elementary substance on which they feed ; not, 
however, that it produces any peculiar difference as to 
flavour. I may, however, as well decide at once that 
the green oyster is, to my taste, the oyster 'par excellence, 
in which decision I shall doubtless be borne out by most 
gourmets whose knowledge extends to a choice of the 
good things of this life. 

I know, in this, some of my friends north of the 
Tweed may differ, and, if still living, amongst them I 
should have had- to include Professor Wilson, so long 
the very life and soul of oyster-suppers and whisky^ 
toddy. But nobody can judge of the true flavour of an 
oyster without well masticating his delicious food ; and, 
by his own showing, both he and the ^'Shepherd" 
bolted their *' Bandores." These same '' Bandores," 
by the way, are large fat oysters, much relished in 
modern Athens, which are said to owe their superior 
excellence to the brackish contents of the pans of the 
adjacent salt-works of Brestonpans flowing out upon the 
beds. Taken away young and transferred to the Ostend 
beds, these Bandores furnish the very best oysters to be 
met with on the Continent, surpassing even the far- 
famed ones of Blensburg, in Holstein. Had '' Christo- 
pher Xorth" tickled the fish fii'st to death with his 
incisors before he swallowed it, I might have submitted 
my judgment to his ; but how can a man who bolted 



30 



THE OYSTER. 



his food be quoted as an authority in matters of taste ? 
At best, his must have been but an after-taste, a mere 
bilious reminder of what the repast had been, in which 
the whisky played as prominent a part as the '' breedy 
creatures" themselves. 

But let us return. The lower shell (**) of the oyster 
is concave, the upper flat. These shells are opened and 
closed by xhe medium of a strong muscle acting upon 




a hinge (+), far more complete in its structure than ever 
locksmith could produce, even at the forthcoming Exhi- 
bition of all Nations. 

On the outside of the shell, when placed in a dark 
place, we may often observe a shining matter of blueish 
light, like a flame of brimstone, which sticks to the 
Angers when touched, and continues shining and giving 
light for a considerable time, though without any sen- 
sible heat. This light is produced by three varieties of 



THE OYSTER. 



31 



minute animalcules, most interesting when examined 
under the microscope. 

The oyster possesses an organ of respiration similar 
to that of a fish — ^branchiae or gills, in fact {hr), which 
are fringed by a mantle or beard di-vided into two 
lobes {m), filled up by small membranous fibres which 
terminate in the mouth (i), in the form of rays, serving 
the ianimal also with power to catch and eat.^ Unlike 
other shelled mussels the oyster has no feet ; thus it 
is unable to make any other voluntary movement, save 
that of opening and closing its shell, as already named, 
in order to receive its food, which consists principally 
of small microscopical spores and young shoots of 
marine plants, made soft and thin by the action of the 
waves ; whence arise the green beards or mantles. AYith 
some difficulty I have been enabled to separate a small 
portion of this vegetation from the mantle of an oyster, 
and having placed it under a strong microscope, dis- 
covered sea weed, of precisely the same species as that 
in which oysters are packed.' They also feed on an 
infusion of sea worms called oyster animalcules. These 
are veiy accurately described in the '^ Journal des 
Savans," by M. Auzout. Some are irridescent, but 
others are not, and good specimens of all may be secured 
immediately the oyster has been taken from the sea. 

By means of the beard or mantle described {m), the 
oyster secures his food, bringing it gradually, by means 
of Kttle hooks bent inwards, to its mouth {b), wherein 
it is crushed and slowly consumed. 

The stomach {i) is situated near the mouth, and all 
the organs are very simple. The mantle {m and w') 



32 THE OYSTER. 

above-named replaces the lungs. The liver (/) is small ; 
the gall, comparatively speaking, large ; the larger 
blood vessels Kttle rarefied. The heart {h) consists of 
two cameras at a tolerable distance from one another, 
resembling small round bladders. The pulse beats rather 
slowly (caused by, perhaps, the want of food and sea 
water). From the stomach the rectum (a) leads directly 
to the anus. How digestion is effected in this short 
and simple way, I can scarce venture to assert. But it 
is a fact well known, that, after the spawning season, the 
oyster becomes thin, but a very short time enables it to 
recover its fat and succulence. 

On examining the oyster the mantle (w^), divided into 
two lobes {?n and w'), the edges of which are fringed, 
will be perceived filling the greater part of the shell ; 
also four membranous leaves crossed with stripes, which 
at their hinder extremities have as many capillary tubes. 
These leaves, or veins, unequally divided around the 
edges of the body perform the functions of the lungs, 
and separate from the water the necessary air for the 
maintenance of the animal. 

The mouth (b) is a kind of trunk, or long aperture 
surrounded by four lips nearly resembling those of a gill, 
but far shorter. 

Behind the muscles is to be seen a large fleshy white 
and cylindrical substance moving on a central muscle, 
and containing the stomach and intestines {i). This part 
resembles the trunk of other conchae, but it has no power 
of opening or contracting. The canal of the intestines 
is situated on the top of the muscle {a). 

The oyster has circular vessels, on the bottom of which 



'I 



THE OYSTER. 53 

are to be seen deep muscular cayities, occupying the 
place of the heart {h), and sending their moisture to the 
small skin through which they come in contact with 
the water or the air. 

In his '' Outline of the Animal Kingdom," Professor 
Rymer Jones most happily describes all these peculiari- 
ties. ''Wonderful indeed is the elaborate mechanism," 
are his words, '' employed to effect the double purpose 
of renewing the respired fluid and feeding the helpless 
inhabitants of these shells ! Every filament of the bran- 
chial fringe, examined under a powerful microscope, is 
found to be covered with countless cilia in constant 
vibration, causing, by their united efforts, powerful and 
rapid currents, which, sweeping over the surface of the 
gills, hurry towards the mouth whatever floating animal- 
cules, or nutritious particles, may be brought within the' 
limits of their action, and thus bring streams of nutritive 
molecules to the very aperture through which they are 
conveyed to the stomach, the lips and labial fringes act- 
ing as sentinels to admit or refuse entrance, as the matter 
may be of a wholesome or pernicious character." 

^Nature, too, has given the oyster a sensitive percep- 
tion of the changes of light as the means of its protec- 
tion from the many enemies it has to contend with ; for 
if the shadow of an approaching boat is thrown forward 
so as to cover it, it closes the valves of its shell before 
any undulation of the water can have reached it. This 
sensitiveness is easily studied in the marine vivary, 
where the oyster, with its beautiful cilia, more beautiful 
by far than the richest lace of a bride's wedding di'ess, 
is always an object of great interest. 



34 THE OYSTER. 

The oyster is an hermaphrodite animal, and hence its 
propagation is eJffccted by self-produced eggs, which it 
bears within in the form of a greenish milky juice 
which it casts as spat in May, and which, as has already 
been stated, in this country is protected by mse and 
prudent acts of the Legislature. ''The liquor in the 
lower shell of the oyster," says a writer in No. 587 of 
the '' Family Herald," ''if viewed through a microscope, 
will be found to contain multitudes of small oysters, 
covered with shells and swimming nimbly about — 120 
of which extend about an inch ! Besides these young 
oysters, the liquor contains a variety of animalcules." 
Indeed, with the aid of a microscope one million of 
young have been discovered in a single oyster. Guarded 
by their two tender shells,, these swim freely in the sea 
when ejected by the parent oyster, until, by means of 
a glutinous substance, they fix themselves so fast to 
some object that they can be separated only by force. 
These young are very soon able to produce others, 
many say at four months after their birth. When the 
oyster attains the size of a crown the shell is still very 
tender and thin ; it is only after the second, third, oi 
fourth year that it becomes fit for human food. 

If we cannot answer the Fool's question in Lear, and 
" tell how an oyster makes his shell," we can, neverthe- 
less, tell by his shell what is his age. 

"A London oysterman," says a correspondent oJ 
jS"©. 623 of the " Family Herald," " can tell the ages 
of his flock to a nicety. The age of an oyster is 
not to be found out by looking into its mouth 
It bears its years upon its back. Everybody whc 



THE OTSTEE. 35 

has handled an oyster-shell must have observed that 
it seemed as if composed of successive layers or 
plates overlapping eacTi other. These are technically 
termed ' shoots,' and each of them marks a year's 
gi'ovrth ; so that, by counting them, we can determine 
at a glance the year when the creature came into the 
world. Up to the time of its maturity, the shoots are 
regular and successive ; but after that time they become 
irregular, and are piled one over the other, so that the 
shell becomes more and more thickened and bulky. 
Judging from the great thickness to which some oyster- 
shells have attained, this moUusk is capable, if left to 
its natural changes unmolested, of attaining a great age." 
Indeed, fossil oysters have been seen, of which each 
shell was nine inches thick, whence they may be con- 
cluded to have been more than 100 years old. 

For the most part the offspring remains near the 
mother, which accounts for the large oyster banks or 
beds which are found in almost all the seas of the 
temperate and torrid zones, and which in some places 
have been known to attain such magnitude as to cause 
ships to be wrecked upon them. The lower stratum is 
necessarily lifeless, being pressed upon by the upper 
one, so that the oysters beneath are unable to open 
themselves, and are consequently deprived of food. 

The immense propagation of the oyster may be under- 
stood from the fossil oyster bed near Reading, in 
Berkshire. These fossils have the entire shape, figure, 
and are of the same substance as our recent oyster- 
shells, and yet must have lain there from time im- 
memorial. This bed occupies about six acres, forming 



36 THE OTSTEE. 

a stratum of about two feet in tliickness. But the 
largest fossil oyster banks are those raised by earth- 
quakes along the western shores of South America, 
which measure from sixty to eighty feet in depth, are 
often forty miles in length, and in many places stretch 
above two miles into the interior. 

The Abbe Dicquemare, fond of trying experiments in 
the spread of gastronomy, even to the stewing a mess of 
Gemmacece, the Gems of our water- vivaries, till they had 
something of the flavour of oysters, asserts that, when 
in a state of liberty, oysters can move from one place 
to another by suddenly admitting sea water into the 
shell, which they are able to open and shut with extra- 
ordinary power and rapidity, whereby they produce a 
strange sound ; and this observation has been confirmed 
by other natui'alists, and is recorded as an ascertained 
fact in several books of natural science. In like manner 
they defend themselves against smaller animals, especially 
against the spider crab, which constantly tries to pene- 
trate into their half open shells. Much natural instinct 
or foresight is also attributed to the oyster ; in proof of 
which I may name that, when in a position which is 
exposed to the variations of the tide, oysters seem to be 
aware that they remain for some hours without water, 
and consequently provide it within their shells. 

This makes such oysters far more fit to be conveyed 
to a distance, than those taken nearer to the shore, which 
evacuate the water, thus exposing themselves to the heat 
of the sun, the cold, or an attack from their enemies ; 
and this, too, is the reason why Colchester or Pyfleet 
oysters, packed at the beds, are in such request. 



THE OTSTEE. 37 



CHAPTEE Y. 

THE OYSTER IX ITS XEW SETTLE3IEXT. 

Dredg-ing for Oysters ; Oyster-beds and their formation ; Sergins 
Orata ; Pliny the Elder ; Baia and the Lucrine Sea ; Roman 
Epicurism and Gluttony; Martial and Horace, Cicero and 
Seneca ; Masticate Oysters, and do not bolt them whole ; 
Mediterranean and Atlantic Oysters ; Agricola and the 
Eutupians ; Apicius Coelins, Trajan, Pliny, and the Viva- 
rium. 

rpHE Oyster does not leave his home like the duckling, 
-*- upon the call of '' come here and be killed/' If he 
is wanted, like 'Mr^. Glasse's hare, we must '* first catch- 
him." This is done by dredging, and this dredging for 
oysters is performed by means of rakes and scrapers, on 
which is fastened a bag of sail-cloth, leather, or net-work. 
These are lowered into the sea by means of ropes and 
chains, and are dragged along its bottom by boats in full 
sail, or by rowing-boats. When the net or scraper is 
drawn to the surface, the oysters are immediately 
separated from all else which may be swept up. These 
oysters are then stowed away and sent up to market in 
due course. But it is not of these that are formed the 
new settlements or oyster-beds, which I am about to 
describe. 

These oyster-beds are cavities or reservoirs which com- 
municate with the sea by means of canals, and are placed 
in such manner that the level beds remain diT when 



38 THE OTSTEE. 

the tide is high. These beds are made with sand-stones 
or other hewn stones ; and the water is kept in or let 
out at low tide by means of locks, or traps, as may be 
most readily effected. 

At some periods, however, the water is kept in foi 
many days, or even weeks together. In the latter case 
the oyster becomes, for the most part, very tender, anc 
green and fat, because the stagnant water promotes th( 
germination of those microscopical spores of marim 
plants, which always abound in natural sea-water, anc 
upon which it delights to feed. These reservoirs, there- 
fore, are not only the means of preserving them for sale 
but of purifying them from the muddy odour which thej 
have imbibed at sea, and which indicates them to be hare 
and devoid of that luscious and somewhat gastronomi( 
quality so much prized by the world at large. 

The bottom and sides of these caves or reservoirs ar( 
paved with stones and thick layers of sand, to keep then 
free from all mud, which is not only very injurious t< 
the animal, but sure to harbour its enemies ; and grea 
care is also observed not to admit too great a flow o 
water at one time, as that might drive particles of san( 
into the shells. "When the reservoii' is properly prepared 
the oysters are placed in their natural position — the fla' 
side being upwards, in a sloping or horizontal direction 
The more care that is taken in keeping their beds cleai 
and free from mud, by washing the sides of the reser- 
voii's, pouring water over the oysters, especially thost 
which are dry, and removing the dead ones, which cai 
be recognised by their shells being open, the better ; foj 
the more valuable will they be as human food, both Sii 



THE OTSTEE. 39 

to profit and condition, and the more appreciated by the 
astronomic million, who hail the oyster season as 
does a sportsman the advent of grouse and partridges, 
hares and pheasants. 

The oysters, which are thus preserved, cleaned, 
aui'sed, and fattened are taken from their beds at the 
low tide when the water is out. 

There are doubts, various and conflicting, as to 
whether oysters contained in reservoirs, where the 
^ater is changed each successive tide, are not on that 
iccount preferable to those which exist in the same 
water for two weeks at a time. I give a decided prefer- 
mce to the latter, though the water must be kept very 
ilean by constant care and attention to the removal of 
:he dead, the decomposition of which would otherwise, 
3ut for the frequent change of water, seriously aftect 
;he health of the whole settlement, by an accumulation 
)f sulphuretted hydrogen, with a smell like that emitted 
Dy the Thames and other drainage rivers in the dog- 
iays. These oysters slip down the human throat divine 
vvith a tenderness and sublime relish which no words 
3an describe. 

Let me pass over, for the nonce, the mode of packing 
md sending them to the interior. Thanks to the rail- 
vvays, the gastronomic al delight of oyster eating is now 
secured to many who for years scarcely knew what an 
)yster meant in its entire freshness and best qualities. 

Sergius Grata, as Pliny the Elder tells us in the 
jighty-ninth book of his invaluable Xatural History, 
md, as we have abeady stated, first conceived the idea 
)f planting oysters in beds. This epicure had large 



40 THE OYSTEK. 

reserroirs made at Baia, where he gathered thousands' 
of these moUusks. Not far from these oyster-beds rose 
a palace in which the wealthy Eoman used to assemble 
his choicest friends and feast with them the whole day 
and night. Oysters occupied the place of honour on the 
table of Sergius Grata ; at every feast thousands of them 
were consumed. Satiated, but not yet satisfied, these 
gourmets were in the habit of adjourning into ani 
adjoining room, where they relieved the stomach of its 
load by artificial means, and then returned to indulge 
again their appetite with a fresh supply of oysters. 

Strange as it may appear to us in the nineteentt 
century, this custom was universal amongst the wealthy 
ot Imperial Eome, C^sar himself often indulging in it: 
when the repast was to his taste ; and ladies, the cream 
of the cream of that luxurious period, carried aboui 
with them peacocks' feathers and other dainty throa 
ticklers for the purpose, when they anticipated a mor- 
luxurious feed than usual. 

Who amongst us cares to eat white-bait in th 
crowded city ? When the mood seizes us, do not w 
take boat and proceed up or down the river, as th' 
whim dictates? The old Eoman had no wHte-bait 
and the oyster to him was therefore doubly welcome 
To him the journey to his marine villa, by water o 
land, as with us, added but a zest to the anticipate, 
treat. In the Bay of Naples is a smaller bay close t 
its most north-western point, bounded on the west b; 
the pretty town of Baia and its hot wells, and on th 
north-east by the no less charming town of Pozzuoli 
These little bays on the Italian coasts are dignified b; 



THE OTSTEE. 41 

the name of seas by the writers of classical antiquity, 
and round the headland of Eaia, to the north, in the 
open ^Mediterranean — the Tyrrhenian Sea — just such 
another bay, the present Lago di Fusaro, was called the 
Lucrine Sea, with its far-famed oyster-beds, easy of 
access fi'om Baia and Pozzuoli, both situated in a 
charming country. Here, close to the Lucrine, under 
a clear sky, surrounded by a delightful atmosphere, 
were situated the country houses of the more wealthy 
Eomans, where, far away fi'om business and the noise 
and turmoil of the forum, these accomplished disciples 
of Epiciu-us, without fear or care, used to give them- 
selves up to the delights of the table. Here they tasted 
the little-shelled oysters which Martial liked so much, 
and which, but a few hours previously to being served 
up, had been gathered on the sea-shore. 

Gastronomic annals mention the names of some of 
these dainty persons who daily swallowed several 
hundreds of oysters ; but Yitellius in this respect beat 
them all. That emperor, it is said, ate oysters four 
times a day, and at each meal swallowed neither more 
nor less than 1200 of them. Seneca himself, who so 
admirably praises the charms of poverty, yet left pro- 
digious wealth behind him ; Seneca the wise and mode- 
rate, ate several hundreds of them every week. 

"Oyster, so dear to people of taste!" he exclaims; 
" thou dost but excite instead of satisfying the appetite, 
never causing indisposition, not even when eaten to 
excess ; for thou art easy of digestion, and the stomach 
yields thee back with facility." Cicero did not hesitate 
to confess that he had a special predilection for oysters ; 

D 



42 THE OYSTER. 

but he adds, that he could renounce them without any 
difficulty ; which, by the way, he might as well have 
told to the Marines, if they were in existence in his day, 
for all the credence this remark of his has gained from 
posterity. 

Wq prefer Horace, who in every passage honestly 
makes known his love for oysters, and eats them him- 
self with as much gusto as he extols them to others. 
Carefully, too, does he note down from whom he pro- 
cui^d them, and the name of the famous gourmet 
who at the first bite was able to tell whether an oyster 
came from Circe or the Lucrine Sea, or from any part 
of ^atolia. The ancients, our teachers in all arts, but 
especially in aesthetics, did not bolt the oyster, but 
masticated it. "With true Epicurean tact, they always 
extracted the fall enjoyment out of the good things set 
before them. IS'ot so we ; most of us now bolt them ; but 
this is a mistake, for the oyster has a much finer flavour, 
and is far more nouiishing, when well masticated. 

" Those who wish to enjoy this delicious restorative 
in its utmost perfection," says Dr. Kitchener, ''must 
eat it the moment it is opened, with its own gravy in 
the under shell ; if not eaten absolutely alive, its flavour 
and spirit are lost. The true lover of an oyster will 
have some regard for the feelings of his little favourite, 
and contrive to detach the fish fi'om the shell so 
dexterously that the oyster is hardly conscious he has 
been ejected from his lodging till he feels the teeth oi the 
piscivorous gourmet tickling him to death." 

The Romans needed not even the use of their teeth to 
tell fr"om whence the oyster came ; a mere look sufficed 



THE OYSTEK. 43 

to distinguish it, as may be seen in the following lines 
ascribed to Lucilius. 

*' When I but see tlie oyster's shell, 
I look and recognize the river, marsh or mud, 
Where it was raised." 

jS'or was this so very difEcult a matter, for the shell, 
no less than the animal itself, as has already been 
shown, exhibits the nature of the food upon which the 
oyster has fed. 

In Italy and Gaul it was for a long time a matter of 
dispute, which country produced the best oysters. At 
that time the Lucrine Sea maintained the superiority ; 
but Pliny preferred those from Cii'ce. '' According to 
my opinion," he says, ''the most delicious and most 
tender oysters are those from Circe." 

At last, however, the preference was given to those of ' 
Britain, which under the wise administration of Julius 
Agricola had conformed to the manners and customs of 
her conquerors, and there no longer was need of dispute 
as to whether the Mediterranean oysters of Italy or 
Gaul should have the precedence. The little watery 
pulpy dabs, which had hitherto delighted the conquerors 
of the world, were cast aside in disgust. They had 
found a real oyster at last, and the insignificant and 
flavourless bivalves of the coasts of Italy ceased to be in 
demand. From that time, on the shores of the Atlantic, 
thousands of slaves were employed in procuring the 
oysters, which in Eome were paid for by their weight 
in gold. The expenses were so great that the censors 
felt themselves obliged to interfere. I^ot content with 
getting their oysters from distant shores, they had means 

D 2 



44 THE OTSTEE. 

by which to preserve them for some time in hot weather ; 
for which purpose, as we see in the Pompeian model- 
house at the Crystal Palace, their domiciles were 
furnished with a receptacle for water ; for with those 
famous epicures the water-vivary was an essential 
necessary for the preservation of living fish, and all that 
was necessary was to substitute sea-water for fresh. 
Probably by some such means, Apicius Coelius, who 
must not be confounded with the writer of a book of 
cookery which bears his name, sent Trajan, when that 
emperor was in the country of the Parthians, oysters, 
which when received were as fresh as they ever could 
be eaten when just taken from their beds ; and Pliny 
even believed that the journey had proved beneficial to 
their flavour. 



THE OTSTEE. 45 



CHAPTEE VI. 

THE OYSTER Olf ITS TEAYELS. 

The Isle of Sheppey, the Med way, and Whitstable ; Milton, 
Queenborough, Eochester, and Faversham Oysters ; Col- 
chester and Essex Beds ; Edinburgh Pandores and Aber- 
dours ; Dublin Carlingfords and Powldoodies ; Poole and 
its Oyster-bank ; Cornish Oysters and the Helford Beds ; 
Poor Tyacke, and How he was Done ; Dredgers and their 
Boats ; Auld Eeekie's Civic Ceremonials ; Song of the 
Oyster ; its Yoyage to Market, and Journey by Coach and 
EaH. 

WHO that has traYelled by water from London 
Bridge to Heme Bay — and who among us who 
liYe Tvdthin the sound of Bow bells has not ? — should 
the trip haYO been made in the beginning of August, 
but must haYO noticed, after haYing passed the Isle of 
Sheppey, a little fishing-town to his right, in East 
Swale Bay, raising its head out of the riYer like a 
joyous child dressed in its gayest attire, anticipating a 
long-looked-for holiday ? It is the 4th of August, and 
its holiday is at hand, for to-morrow the oyster season 
begins ; and the town is Whitstable, in Kent, standing 
out gaily with its bright flags and pennons in beautiful 
relief from the low marshy soil by which it is sur- 
rounded. Then, too, the dredgers, in their pic- 
turesque costume, add greatly to the gay appearance of 
the place, whilst some scYenty or eighty Yessels lying 



46 THE OTSTEE. 

in the offing bespeak the importance of the oyster traffic 
between it and the Great Metropolis. "What the 
Lucrine was to the citizen of Eome is the estuary of the 
Medway with the Swale to the citizen of London. The 
''Natives" obtained at Milton are in the highest re- 
pute, and consumed in every part of England ; nor are 
the Faversham, Queenborough, and Rochester denizens 
less so; nor, indeed, any of the "breedy creatures" 
which are raised in the other beds of the Swale or the 
Medway. 

The trade in oysters, as we have seen, has been an 
object of consideration in England for many ages, and 
now ranks in importance with the herring, pilchard, 
and other fisheries. The excellence of our oysters made 
the formation of artificial beds an object of attention 
soon after the Eoman conquest; and the Kentish and 
Essex beds show a pedigree in consequence much older- 
than that of the noble descendant of any jS'orman adven- 
turer who came over with the Conqueror, claiming, 
on this head alone, precedence for our '']S"atives" 
amongst all the oysters of the known world. Eut 
Britain is the boasted land of liberty, and the ''jS'atives" 
of one part of her coast boldly assert their equality with 
the ''Natives" of any other. If London delights in 
Milton and Colchester oysters, Edinburgh has her 
"whispered Pandores" and Aberdom's, and Dublin hei 
Carlingfords^'' and "Powldoodies of Burran;" whilst all 

* The Carlingford oyster is the best in Ireland ; a black' 
bearded fellow, delicate and of fine flavour, to be eaten ir 
Dublin alternately with the Redbank oyster, at a magnificeni 
establishment in Sackville Street, and to be washed down wit! 



THE OTSTER. 47 

round our shores each locality boasts of its own ^''Na- 
tives" as the best oysters in the land. Poole j)oints 
proudly to her oyster-bank, and tells mii'aculous tales 
of her fishery, and of the number of oysters she sends 
to the London market, besides those which are pickled 
at sea for the export trade to lands where a fresh oyster 
is still a luxury unknown. The Poole fishermen who 
open oysters in their boats for pickling are compelled, 
by an Act of the Legislature, to throw the shells on the 
strand, and these, in the course of time, have formed a 
strong barrier against the waves of the sea at the flow 
of the tide, having the appearance of an island at high- 
water ; and, simple as it is, such is the sole construction 
of this celebrated breakwater. 

I cannot be expected to take the reader on a voyage 
of discovery all round the coast, nor to the Channel' 
Islands, to taste the oysters which Providence has 
spread out for our enjoyment with such a lavish 
hand. But there is one little spot on the shores of 
Cornwall which I cannot pass over, because from it 
came one of the colonies on the banks of the Thames, 
fr^om which the ~V\Tiitstable boats still draw their 
annual supply. Into Mount's Bay the Helford Eiver, 
upon which stands the little town of Helstone, empties 
itself, opposite Mount St. Michael's, into the sea, 
and in the estuary of that little river, a person of the 
name of Tyacke, within the memory of the " oldest 

alternate draughts of brown stout. The Hibernian will tell 
j'^ou that even our Natives are inferior to these. He is right 
in his patriotism, but wrong in his assertion. How often do 
our prejudices trip up our judgment ! 



48 TUB OYSTER. 

inhabitant," rented certain oyster-beds, famous amongst 
Cornish gourmets for a breed of oysters, which, it is 
said, the Phoenicians, ''a long time ago," had discovered 
to be infinitely preferable to the watery things they got 
at home. These Helford oysters are regidarly brought 
to London ; but when Tyacke rented the beds they were 
unknown to the good citizens who frequented the oys- 
ter taverns, of which the Cock in Fleet Street is but a 
last lingering type. Determined to make his venture, 
Tyacke loaded a fishing smack with the best produce of 
his beds, and coasted along the southern shores, till 
passing round the Isle of Thanet he found himself in the 
Mouth of the Thames. Little did the elated oyster 
dredger think that that Mouth would swallow up the 
whole of his cargo ; but so it came to pass. It had long 
been evident to those on board that oysters that travel, 
no less than men, must have rations allowed on the 
voyage, if they are to do credit to the land of theii' birth. 
;N'ow the voyage had been long and tedious, and the 
oysters had not been fed, so Tyacke got into his boat, 
and obtained an interview with the owner of the spot at 
which it touched land. He asked permission to lay 
down his oysters, and feed them. This was granted, and 
after a few days the spores of ulva latissima and entero- 
morpha, and of the host of delicate fibrous plants which 
there abound, and all of which are the oyster's great 
delight, made the whole gi'een and fat, and in the finest 
condition for reshipment. Four days, it is said, will 
suffice to make a lean oyster, on such a diet, both green 
and plump ; and Tyacke, joyfiil at the improvement 
which he daily witnessed, let his stock feed on for a 



I 



THE OYSTEE. 49 

week. It was towards eyening that he bethought him- 
self, as the tide was out, that if he meant to reach 
Billingsgate by the next morning, it would be wise to 
reship his oysters before turning in for the night. The 
boat was lowered ; but, as he attempted to land, he was 
warned oif by the owner of the soil, who stood there T\dth 
several fierce looking fellows, anned with cutlasses and 
fowling-pieces, evidently anticipating the Comishman's 
intention, and determined to frustrate it at all hazards. 

" What do you want here ?" he asked of Tyacke. 

*' The oysters I put down to feed," was the reply. 
" They were placed there by your permission, and now 
I am anxious to reship them, to be in time for to-mor- 
row's market." 

" True," replied the Kentishman, " I gave you leave 
to lay down the oysters and feed them, but not a word • 
was said about reshipping them. "Where they are, there 
they stay ; and if you persist in trespassing, I shall know 
what to do." 

Poor Tyacke found himself much in the predica- 
ment of many a flat who has been picked up by a sharp. 
A century ago law was not justice, nor justice law. 
Perhaps it may not even be so now ; and the story of the 
lawyer who ate the oyster in dispute, and gave each of 
the disputants a shell, may hold as good in our day as it 
did in that when the author of the '^ Beggar's Opera" 
put it into verse. 

The demand for oysters, wherever it exists along our 
coasts, creates a profitable source of employment to a 
class of men who necessarily become experienced sea- 



50 THE OYSTEE. 

men ; and dredging for oysters is carried on in fleets, as 
the beds mostly lie within a comparatively small space. 
The boats, which are about fifteen feet long, usually 
carry a man and a boy, or two men. The dredge is 
about eighteen pounds weight, and is required to be 
heavier on a hard than on a soft bottom, and each boat 
is usually provided with two dredges. 

In former days the commencement of the di'edging; 
season was held sufficiently important to entitle it to an 
civic ceremonial, at least such was the wont of the 
municipal authorities of '' Auld Eeekie," who also paid: 
a particular regard both as to the supply and the price of 
the "' breedy creatuiTs" furnished to the good citizens of 
Edinburgh. The " Feast of Shells" was ushered in by 
the municipality of the ancient city making, for provosts 
and bailiffs, a somewhat perilous voyage to the oyster- 
beds in the Frith of Forth ; and though the solemnity 
of wedding the Frith formed no part of the chiei 
magistrate's office, as wedding the Adriatic with a golc 
ring did that of the Doge of Venice, the welkin was 
made to ring, as three cheers from all present uprose 
and announced the lifting of the first di^edge upon the 
deck of the civic barge. 

There is something poetical and pretty in the idea, 
which once prevailed, that the oyster was a lover o; 
music, and as the fishermen trolled their dredging net; 
they sang, 

" To charm the spirits of the deep." 



The old ballad in use is still found in the mouth oJ 



THE OTSTEE. 51 

many a hardy seaman as lie pursues Ids toil to the 
melodious words — 

" The herring loves the merry moonlight, 
The mackerel loves the wind, 
But the oyster loves the dredger's song, 
For he comes of a gentle kind." 

Raised out of his native waters, the oyster makes the 
voyage to the first station in his destined travels in the 
company of those to whom long and kindred ties have 
bound him, on board the smack upon the deck of which 
they were jointly landed from the deep ; and during 
the whole voyage, if it prove a long one, he is atten- 
tively supplied with refreshing water, so that when the 
smack lays alongside the wharf at which he is to part 
company with his captors, he is still as lively as when 
they first took him as a passenger on board. 

Arm-ed in port, the oyster first truly becomes sensible 
of the miseries of slaveiy . Shovelled into sacks, or cast 
anyhow into carts and handbarrows, he may consider 
himself fortunate if a kindly hand but extends to him, in 
his great necessity, a di-ink of water impregnated with 
salt, instead of his own delicious beverage from the sea. 
Yet this is a cruelty which should be avoided wherever 
sea-water can be obtained, because it is neither the salt 
nor the water which sustains the oyster's life, but the 
spores of vegetation which abound in the sea, and by 
mixing salt with fresh water we destroy even the Kfe of 
the incipient fresh- water plants which the latter con- 
tains. It is as great a mockeiy as when Grumio pro- 
poses to give the famished Katherine the mustard 
without the brawn, and need no longer exist if oyster 



aJ 



52 THE OYSTER. 

dealers, who cannot obtain sea -water, would provide 5 
themselves with the prepared salts for the instantaneous 
production of artificial sea-water, the recipe for the 
preparation of which is thus given in ]S'o. 735 of the 
" FamHy Herald:"— 

" For ten gallons it requires, sulphate of magnesia, 7^ ounces ; 
sulphate of lime, 2f ounces ; chloride of sodium, 43^ ounces ; 
chloride of magnesia, 6 ounces ; chloride of potassium, 1^ 
ounce ; bromide of magnesium, 21 grains ; carbonate of lime, 
21 grains." 

This should be allowed to stand exposed to the air in 
a strong sunlight for a fortnight before it is used, during 
which time a few growing plants of enteromorpha, or ulva, 
should be introduced to throw off spores. These plants 
cost about one shilling each in London. The watei 
then, when under the microscope, will be found to con- 
tain a confervoid vegetable growth, which forms as nour- 
ishing a food for the oyster as the spores of sea- weed ii 
its ocean bed. Oysters laid down in a large trough an( 
covered with this water will continue to live and thriv< 
for months ; and it was to some such method as this tha 
the Eomans were indebted for the preservation of thei 
oysters in inland stews. On no account should oatmeal 
flour, or any such dead stufl^, be added, which onl^ 
serves to make the water foul and the oyster sick. 

When oysters are to travel by coach or rail, they ar^ 
usually dispatched in barrels. "WTiere the barrels ar 
packed at the beds, as the Colchester or '^Pyflee 
barrelled oysters" are, they should not be distui'bed til 
wanted for the table, as they will keep good as they ar 
for a week or ten days ; for being carefully packed so a 



THE OYSTEE. 53 

lot to spill the water each carries in a reservoir of 
N'ature's providing, they need no other viaticum for the 
oui-ney. 

The moment an oyster in the barrel opens its mouth 
t dies, because there is nothing in the barrel to sustain 
ts life. It is therefore as well, on the receipt of the 
ittle cask, to open it at once by removing the top and 
;he first hoop, and then to place the top on the upper- 
nost layer of oysters, keeping it in position by the 
iddition of some heavy weight, which causes the staves 
spread and stand erect ; and as the layers of oysters 
ire required for the table, it is only necessary each time 
replace the top and the weight to a similar position 
keep the remainder fresh for a few days. But the 
rue lover of an oyster will have some regard for his 
ittle favourite. Sea-water may be had in London and 
tther large towns for sixpence per gallon, and when 
hat cannot be procured the pound packet of salts, 
iccording to the recipe we have given, will not cost 
^Qore than eighteen-pence at any chemist's, and that 
"[uantity will produce thiTe gallons of artificial sea- 
iivater. Thus provided, unpack the barrel, and spread 
lut the oysters in a large flat earthenware dish, just 
overing them with water, and you may keep them for 
nany weeks as fresh as when they first left their beds. 



54 THE OYSTER. 



CHAPTER YII. 

THE OYSTER AT ITS JOrRXEY's END. 

Oyster Stalls ; How to Open the Oyster ; an Oyster Supper ; 
Beer, "Wines, and Spirits ; Roasted, Fried, Stewed, and Scol- 
loped Oysters ; Oyster Soup, and Oyster Sauce ; Broiled 
Oysters ; Oyster Pie ; Oyster Toast ; Oyster Patties ; Oyster 
Powder ; Pickled Oysters ; Oyster Loaves ; Oyster Omelet ; 
Cabbage, Larks, and Oysters ; and Progs and Oysters. 

" If where Fleet Ditch with muddy cm-rent flows 
You chance to roam, where oyster-tubs in rows 
Are ranged beside the posts, there stay thy haste. 
And with the savomy fish indulge thy taste." — Gay. 

IA^ writing for the Million, and the least the Million 
can do in return is every one to buy a copy of my book, 
and bid everybody to recommend everybody to do the 
same. The Fleet Ditch, which was once in the centre 
of the old Fleet Market, has disajDpeared since Gay wrote 
the lines I have just quoted, and now forms the great 
sewer of Farringdon Street ; but with the Ditch have 
not disappeared the oyster- stalls ; they have only 
changed their locality, and, like the "Wandering Jew, 
have turned up in the most out-of-the-way places, 
where nobody would expect to find them. I know 
what stall-oysters are; for when I was a school-boy 
many and oft is the time I spent my pennies, on the sly, 
at a stall behind the old cathedral that just abutted the 
ancient Market Cross. The maiden that opened them 



THE OTSTEE. 55 

lad clean white hands — for, boy as I was, I could not 
lave endured a baronet's hand to open oysters for me ; 



" The damsel's knife the gaping shell commands, 
While the salt liquor streams between her hands." 

N'ever have I eaten finer oysters than those, fresh 
ilmost within a few hours from the placid Solent, upon 
ivhich now the palace of Osborne looks down, and calls 
brth the heartfelt prayer of ''God bless the Queen," 
is we pass beneath the grass-covered slopes, remind- 
ng every "Wykehamist of the founder's motto, "Man- 
lers maketh Hen;" for Her Majesty is the tenant of 
W^ykeham's College, and his arms and motto are carved 
ipou the gates of the Queen's royal residence of 
3sborne. 

Yes, '' Manners maketh Men" no less than Honor es 
nutant Mores, as the punster told the great Sir Thomas 
More, when he stood so high in favour with Henry YIII., 
md was just appointed Treasurer of the Exchequer. It 
s not riches that make man, any more than they need 
ihange him ; and if there is any good gift of Providence 
nore than another which teaches equality, it will not 
DC far from the mark to say it is the Oyster. You can- 
lot eat the oyster in greater perfection than at a 
treet-stall, because, as the capital of the owner is 
small, so, too, is the stock ; and, to be siu-e of a rapid 
ale, it must also be well and carefully selected, and 
herefore does not need the announcement we read in 
nany a by-way one passes along, where ''the tale of a 
Tub " would seem to contradict it : " Oysters fresh every 



56 THE OYSTEK. 

day." The poor man has no need to bid his cook, 
like his wealthy neighbour, buy real sea-water, or 
salts for the preparation of artificial sea- water, for the 
preservation of his oysters. There are thousands of 
hands outstretched to receive his nimble penny, and to 
give him in return oysters as fine as any which can 
grace the table of the wealthiest in the land. To me it 
is a treat to stand by and see how rapidly oyster after 
oyster disappears down the capacious throat of some 
stalwart son of toil, and to think that my favourite 
health-giving mollusk, in every one that is swallowed, 
is adding strength and muscle to those upon whom we 
so greatly depend for the nation's wealth and prosperity. 
People generally, however, are somewhat indifferent 
about the manner of opening oysters, and the time ol 
eating them after they are opened ; yet nothing deserves 
more consideration at the hands of your ti-ue oyster-eater. 
The oyster should be eaten the moment it is opened, il 
eaten raw, with its own liquor in the under shell, as we 
have already stated on the very highest of all gastrono- 
mical authorities. It is well worth a little practice to 
learn to open the oyster oneself, for a bungling opera- 
tor injures our little favourite, and baulks the expectant 
appetite by his unsightly incisions. I learnt the art 
years ago in one of the Midland counties, where Christ- 
mas-eve would scarce be Christmas-eve, without an 
oyster supper. Let me sketch the scene. In the centre 
of the table, covered with a clean white cloth up to the 
top hoop, stands the barrel of oysters, a kindly remem- 
brance from a friend, and the more kind because oysters 
are not found in fresh-water streams. Each gentleman at 



THE OYSTER. 57 

table finds an oyster-knife and a clean coarse towel by 
the side of his plate, and he is expected to open oysters 
for himself and the lady seated by his side, unless she 
is wise enough to open them for herself. Ey the side of 
every plate is the ijanis ostrearlus, the oyster-loaf 
made and baked purposely for the occasion, and all 
down the centre of the table, interspersed with vases of 
bright holly and evergreens, are plates filled with pats 
of butter, or lemons cut in half, and as many vinegar 
and pepper castors as the establishment can farnish. 
As the attendance of servants at such gatherings is 
usually dispensed with, bottled Bass or Guinness, or 
any equally unsophisticated pale ale or porter, is liberally 
provided ; and where the means allow, light continental 
wines, such as Chablis, Sauterne, Mousseux, ITarsault 
or Medoc, still Champagne, Moselle, or any light Rhen- 
ish wine, and failing any of these, Madeira or Sherry, 
are placed upon the table. In this list is contained the 
names of such wines only as are best suited to enhance 
the taste of the oyster, and to assist digestion. Of spirits, 
Duly good English gin, genuine Schiedam, or Irish or 
Scotch whisky, are admissible, as rum and brandy, 
i:aken upon oysters, will almost always be sure to 
nake them indigestible ; and liqueurs are quite out of 
place. 

At some of these oyster suppers, oysters roasted in the 
hell are brought in '^ hot and hot," and dishes of Med, 
5tewed, and scolloped oysters foUow each other in quick 
iuccession, and even oyster patties are sometimes intro- 
luced ; but I hold up both hands against an American 
unovation which is creeping in, and introducing crabs 

E 



58 THE OYSTER. 



\ 



and lobsters, and mixed pickles, and other foreigners into 
the carfe on such an occasion. 

The mention of these various dishes of dressed oysters, 
reminds me of my promise at starting, to give some di- 
rections as to the proper mode of cooking them. So to 
begin : — 

1. The Fried Oyster. — It is the most common one, and is friec 
in its own shell ; but as it frequently takes the taste of lime ^ 
when just fried, it is better to make use of another shell, or £ 
porcelain one. The beard is taken off, the oyster loosenec 
fi'om its shell, and with the liquor it still contains is put int( 
the vessel prepared for it, with some good butter, some Parme 
san cheese, and pepper, and thus it is put into the oven, or oi ^ 
the gridiron, and when it has turned a httle brown some lemon ^ 
juice is poured on it, after which it maybe served up. Havinj 
no Parmesan, good dry Cheshire, or even bread crumbs, ar 
desirable. The largest and finest oysters should be chosen fo 
this purpose ; and many persons fry oysters by simply allowin 
them to simmer in their own shells for a couple of minute; 
when they take them out and lay them on a cloth to drah 
beard them, and then flour them, put them into boiling fat, an 
fry them to a delicate brown. 

2. The Oyster roasted in its own shell. — Open the oyster carr 
fully, so as not to lose any of its own liquor, add a little buttf 
and pepper, according to taste, place it upon a gridiro 
over a fierce clear fire, and serve up " hot and hot " in quic 
succession. Bachelors may manage to dress oysters in th: 
way by placing them betwen the bars of the grate till done, an 
adding the butter and pepper as they eat them. 

3. Stewed Oysters. — Open the oysters, and put their liquor i 
a stew-pan with a little beaten mace ; thicken it with flou 
and butter ; boil it three or four minutes ; put in a spoonfi 
of cream ; put in the oysters, and shake them round in tl: 
pan, but do not let them boil. Serve them in a small deep disl 
or if for one person only in a soup-plate. 



THE OYSTER. 59 

4. Scolloped Oysters.— Ope-a the oysters, put them in a basin, 
with their own liquor ; put them into a small deep dish, or 
some of them, if preferred, into scollop shells ; strew over them 

few crumbs of bread, and lay a slice of butter on them ; then 
more oysters, bread crumbs, and a slice of butter on the top ; 
put them into a Dutch-oven to brown, and serve them up. 

5. Oyster Soups.— (Each of the following is calculated for one 
jerson). 

(a). The English Soup.— Take one pound of good lean beef, half 
1, pound of raw lean ham, much parsley, and carrot roots, and a 
ew onions ; cut all in very small pieces, and burnish it into a 
lark-brownish colour with spices, bay-leaves, whole pepper 
.nd butter : after having boiled this with water for five hours, 
>our it through a hair sieve, and then put to it a little brown 
lour, and two ounces of Sherry or Madeira, and after ha\Tng 
■oiled again for an hour, take all the fat clean off, and put into 
: the oysters with their beards and liquor, and with cayenne 
epper; all this is to be boiled up again, and then served, 
'his soup is to be recommended, especially in winter when it 
! very cold. For invalids, the wine, spices, and pepper are 
mitted. This soup is valuable for convalescents, being very 
:rengthening and nourishing. 

(b). The American Soup>.— Take half a pint of good fresh milk, 
r cream if possible ; three ounces of good butter ; boil this 
)gether, beat it up with the yolks of three eggs, and put into 

six or twelve oysters with their beards and Hquor ; boU this 
p again, and in serving it up put into it a little cayenne pep- 
3r and a few drops of lemon juice. This soup is delicate ; but 
3 prejudice ! Everybody must try it first. For invaHds, but- 
r, eggs, and pepper are omitted. 

(c). The Holstein Soup.— Take good beef-stock, one-eighth 

a pound of Sherry or Madeira, burnt flour, and proceed as 
ith (a.) ; and then beat it up with the yolks of two or three eggs, 
'he beard and the liquor must always be made use of, as they 
ipart the strongest flavour of the oyster.) 

6. Oyster Sauce.— I cannot do better than copy Dr. Kitchener's 

E 2 



60 TnE OYSTER. 

valuable recipe for making oyster sauce, -which was one c 

the great luxuries at the table of that celebrated gastronome :- 

" Choose plump and juicy natives for this purpose ; do not tak 

them out of their shells till you put them into the stew-par 

To make good oyster sauce for half a dozen hearty fish-eater; 

you cannot have less than three or four dozen oysters ; sav 

their liquor, strain it, and put it and them into a stew-pan 

as soon as they boil, and the fish plump, take them oiF the fir 

and pour the contents of the stew-pan into a sieve over a clea 

basin ; wash the stew-pan out with hot water, and put into it tl 

strained hquor, with about an equal quantity of milk, and aboi 

two and a half ounces of butter, with which you have well rubbe 

a large table-spoonful of flour; give it aboil up, andpourit throng 

a sieve into a basin, that the sauce may be quite smooth, ai 

then back again into the saucepan ; now shave the oysters, ai P 

(if you have the honour of making sauce for " a Committee 

Taste," take away the gristly part also) put in only the soft p£ 

of the oysters ; if they are veiy large, cut them in half, and 

them by the fire to keep hot ; ' if they boil after, they wiU 1: 

come hard.' If you have not liquor enough, add a little melt 

butter, or cream, or milk beat up with the yolk of an egg (tl 

must not be put in tiU the sauce is done) . Some barbarc 

cooks add pepper, or mace, the juice or peel of a lemon, hor 

radish essence of anchovy, cayenne, etc. ; plain sauces are oi 

to taste of the ingredients from which they derive their nan 

It wiU very much heighten the flavour of this sauce to pound t 

soft part of half a dozen unboiled oysters ; rub it througl 

hair sieve, and then stir it into the sauce. Tliis essence of oyst 

and for some palates a few grains of cayenne, is the only addit: 

we recommend." 

Notwithstanding Dr. Kitchener's objection to t 
introduction of extraneous substances by " harhan 
cooks,'' because de Gustihus, as the adage of ''t 
apple and the onion" has abeady reminded me, 
always a matter not to be disputed, I shall add Ale: 



THE OTSTEE. 61 

foyer's " barbarous" method of preparing oyster sauce, 
ivhich was introduced by him at the Keform Club in 
1852:— 

' Mix three ounces of butter in a stewpan with two ounces 
)f flour, then blanch and beard three dozen oysters, put the 
jysters into another stewpan, add beards and liquor to the 
lour and butter, with a pint and a half of milk, a teaspoonful 
)f salt, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne, two cloves, half a blade 
)f mace, and six peppercorns ; place it over the fire, keep 
stirring, and boil it ten minutes, then add a tablespoonful of 
ssence of anchovies, and one of Harvey sauce ; pass it through 
hair-sieve over the oysters ; make the whole very hot without 
ooiling, and serve. A less quantity may be made, using less 
proportions." 

He also gives the following : — 

" Put a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan, with the liquor 
and beards of three dozen oysters (as above), six peppercorns, 
two cloves, and half a blade of mace ; boil it ten minutes, then 
add a spoonful of essence of anchovies, a little cayenne and salt 
if required ; pass it through a tammy, or hair- sieve, over the 
oysters, as in the last." 

This is somewhat similar to that given in that most 
useful pennyworth " The Family Herald Economical 
Cookery," which is also preferred by many, and is as 
follows : — 

•' Simmer the oysters in their own liquor till they are plump : 
strain off" the Hquor through a sieve, wash the oysters clean, 
and beard them ; put them into a saucepan, and pour the 
liquor over them, taking care you do not pour in any of the 
sediment ; add a blade of mace, a quarter of a lemon, a spoon- 
ful of anchovy liquor, and a bit of horseradish ; boil it up 
gently, then take out the horseradish, the mace, and the lemon, 



62 



THE OYSTEE. 



the juice of which must be squeezed into the sauce. Now add 
some thick melted butter, toss it together, and boil it up." 

I am bound to admit that my own opinion coincides 
with that of Dr. Kitchener, and would only add that no 
trouble is too great to render the sauce perfectly smooth, 
and that no niggard hand should have the supplying 
it for the table. 

6. Large Oysters Broiled.— Take the largest and finest 
oysters you can get, such as you find in the West of England 
and in America ; clean the gridiron as if a fairy had done the 
work for Cinderella in her sleep ; rub the bars with fresh butter, 
and set it over a clear fire, quite free from smoke ; then place 
the oysters upon it, being careful not to let them burn, and 
when done on one side, turn them quickly on the other with a 
fork. Put some fresh butter in the bottom of a hot dish, and 
lay the oysters upon it, sprinkling them slightly with pepper. 
They must be served quite hot with fried parsley. 

7. Oysfer Pie.— Having buttered the inside of a deep dish, 
spread a rich paste over the sides and round the edge, but not 
at the bottom. The oysters should be as large and fine as pos- 
sible, and when opened drain off part of the liquor from them. 
Put them into a pan, and season them with pepper, salt, and 
spice, and stir them well with the seasoning. Pour the oysters 
with their liquor into the dish, and strew over them the yolks 
of eggs chopped fine and grated bread. EoU out the M of the 
pie, and put it on, crimping the edges handsomely. Take a 
smaU sheet of paste, cut it into a square, and roU it up. Cut 
it with a sharp knife into the form of a double tulip. Make a 
sHt in the centre of the upper crust, and stick the tuhp in it. 
Cut out some large leaves of paste, and lay them on the Kd, 
and bake the pie in a quick oven. 

Another way of preparing this favoui'ite French dish 



THE OYSTEE. 63 

is this, communicated to me by a lady of some experience 
in matters gastronomical : — 

" Ha^dng buttered the inside of a deep dish, line it with puff- 
paste rolled out rather thick, and prepai-e another sheet of paste 
for the lid. Put a clean towel into the dish (folded so as to 
support the lid) and then put on the lid ; set it into the oven, 
and bake the paste well. When done, remove the lid, and take 
out the folded towel. While the paste is baking, prepare the 
oysters. Having picked off carefully any bits of shell that may 
be found about them, lay them in a sieve and drain off the 
liquor into a pan. Put the oysters into a skillet or stew-pan, 
with barely enough of the liquor to keep them from burning. 
Season them with whole pepper, blades of mace, some grated 
nutmeg, and some grated lemon-peel, (the yellow rind only,) 
and a little finely minced celery. Then add a large portion of 
fresh butter, divided into bits, and very slightly dredged with 
flour. Let the oysters simmer over the fire, but do not allow 
them to come to a boil, as that will shrivel them. Next beat 
the yolks only, of three, four, or five eggs, (in proportion to the 
size of the pie,) and stir the beaten egg into the stew a few 
minutes before you take it from the fire. Keep it warm till the 
paste is baked. Then carefully remove the lid of the pie ; and 
replace it, after you have filled the dish with the oysters and 
gravy. 

" The Hd of the pie may be ornamented with a wreath of 
leaves cut out of paste, and put on before baking. In the centre, 
place a paste-knot or flower. 

" Oyster pies are generally eaten warm ; but they are very 
good cold." 

B. Oyster Toast.— Cut four slices of bread, pare off the crusts, 
and toast them. Butter the toast on both sides. Then select 
a dozen of fine fat and plump oysters, and mince them ; place 
them thickly between the slices of toast, seasoning them with 
cayenne pepper. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them 
with half-a-pint of cream, adding, if thought necessary, a few 



G4 THE OYSTER. 

blades of mace. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over 
the fire to simmer till thick ; but do not allow it to boil, and 
stir it well, lest it should curdle. When it is near boiling heat, 
take it off and pour it over the toast. 

9. Oyster Patties. — " Roll out puff-paste a quarter of an inch 
thick," says Dr. Kitchener, " cut it into squares with a knife, 
sheet eight or ten patty pans, put upon each a bit of bread the 
size of half a walnut ; roll out another layer of paste of the 
same thickness, cut it as above, wet the edge of the bottom 
paste, and put on the top, pare them round to the pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with the back of the knife, rub 
them lio-htly with yolk of egg^ bake them in a hot oven about a 
quarter of an hour : when done, take a thin slice off the top, 
then, with a small knife or spoon, take out the bread and the 
inside paste, leaving the outside quite entire : then parboil two 
dozen of large oysters, strain them from their liquor, wash, 
beard, and cut them into four, put them into a stew-pan with 
an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of good cream, a 
little grated lemon-peel, the oyster liquor free from sediment, 
reduced by boiling to one half, some cayenne pepper, salt, and 
a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice; stir it over a fire five minutes, 
and fill the patties." 

10. Oyster Poivder. — Open the oysters carefully, so as not to 
cut them, except in dividing the gristle which attaches the 
shells ; put them into a mortar, and when you have got as 
many as you can conveniently pound at once, add about two 
drachms of salt to a dozen oysters ; pound them and rub them 
through the back of a hair sieve, and put them into the mortar 
ao-ain, with as much flour (which has been previously thoroughly 
dried) as will make them into a paste ; roll the paste out several 
times, and lastly, flour it, and roll it out the thickness of a half- 
crown, and divide it into pieces about one inch square ; lay 
them in a Dutch oven, where they will dry so gently as not to 
get burned ; turn them every half hour, and when they begin 
to dry, crumble them. They will take about four hours to dry; 
then pound them fine, sift them, and put them into dry bottles 



THE OTSTEE. 65 

and seal them. Three dozens of natives require seven ounces 
and a half of flour to make them into a paste weighing eleven 
ounces, or when dried and powdered, six and a half ounces. 
To make half a pint of sauce, put one ounce of butter into a 
stew-pan with three drachms of oyster powder, and six table- 
spoonfals of milk ; set it on a slow fire, stir it till it boils, and 
season it with salt. This makes an excellent sauce for fish, 
fowls, or rump steaks. Sprinkled on bread and butter, it makes 
a good sandwich. But only use plump juicy natives in the 
preparation, 

11. Pickled Oysters are mostly used for salads when no fresh 
oysters can be got. Take good wine, or TaiTagon vinegar, some 
onions cut in pieces, some slices of lemon, some spices, whole 
pepper, bay leaves, and salt. Boil this together, and whilst 
boiling put the oysters into it, and let the whole boil up once 
more. Put the result into bottles with a little good oil, and, 
tied over with bladder, it will keep for a long time. 

However, pickled oysters also appear as a supper dish, ' 
Tvhen they are thus prepared : — 

Take two dozen oysters ; strain the liquor ; add three blades 
of mace, six peppercorns, a Kttle grated lemon peel, and one 
or two bay leaves ; boil the liquor, and, when boiling, add the 
oysters for two minutes. When cold, strain off the liquor ; 
l^lace the oysters in a small dish, and garnish with parsley. 
According to this rate of ingredients the dish may be made to 
suit the number of guests likely to partake of it. 

12. Oyster Loaves. — Make an oval hole in the top of some 
rasped French roUs, and scrape out all the crumb : then put the 
oysters into a stew-pan, with their liquor, and the crumbs that 
came out of the rolls, and a good lump of butter ; stew them 
together five or six minutes : then put in a spoonful of good 
cream ; fill the skeleton rolls with the compound, and lay the 
bit of crust carefully on the top again, setting them in the oven 
to crisp. Three form a side dish. 

13. Oyster Omelet. — Having strained the liquor from three 



66 THE OYSTER. 

dozen plump native oysters, mince tliem small ; omitting the 
hard part, or gristle. If you cannot get large oysters, you 
should have forty or fifty small ones. Break into a shallow pan 
six, seven, or eight eggs, according to the quantity of minced 
oysters. Omit half the whites, and (having beaten the eggs 
till very hght, thick, and smooth,) mix the oysters gradually 
into them, adding a little cayenne pepper, and some poAvdered 
nutmeg. Put three ounces or more of the best fresh butter 
into a small frying-pan, if you have no pan especially for 
omelets. Place it over a clear fire, and when the butter (which 
should be previously cut up) has come to a boil, put in the 
omelet-mixture ; stir it till it begins to set ; and fry it a 
light brown, lifting the edge several times by sKpping a knife 
under it, and taking care not to cook it too much or it will 
shrivel and become tough. When done, clap a large hot plate 
or dish on the top of the omelet, and turn it quickly and care- 
fully out of the pan. Fold it over, and serve it up imme- 
diately. This quantity will make one large or two small 
omelets. The omelet pan should be smaller than a common 
frying-pan, and lined with tin. In a large pan the omelet will 
spread too much, and become thin like a pancake. Never 
turn an omelet while frying, as that will make it heavy and 
tough. When done, brown it by holding a red-hot salamander 
close above the top. 

Having given a baker's dozen of the most approved 
receipts for dressing oysters, I have only to add that 
the oyster, as an accessory, enters into many dishes, par- 
ticularly into fricassees, is served with sweetbreads, fowl, 
and veal, and, as we all know from ''Tom and Jerry," 
" gentlemen" eat oysters as sauce to rump steak ; which, 
by the way, I, for one, regard as the ruin of both oyster 
and steak. I cannot refrain from adding the following, 
both little knoAvn in this country, yet both equally good : — 

1-i. Calhage with Oysters and Fried Larlis. — When the cab- 



THE OYSTEE. 67 

bage has been cooked with a little Rhenish wine, Chablis, or 
Champagne, some good butter is melted, in which the oysters 
are put with their beards and Hquor, and having been fried a 
Kttle with the butter, they are put with the cabbage and 
and cooked again together, and then served up with the larks. 
15. — Fried Hind Legs of Frogs with Oysters. — The hind legs 
of frogs are fried in the usual manner ; when they are nearly 
done, some oysters with Parmesan cheese and a little pepper 
are added to them, and when done they are served up. This 
dish is undeniable, and is as much relished abroad as whitebait 
with us. 

In closing this chapter, let me remind all cooks that 
the success in preparing the above-mentioned dishes 
depends on the goodness and freshness of the oysters 
used for this purpose. Yery erroneous is the opinion 
that oysters which are not fresh are yet good enough to 
be fried and to be used for sauces. The greatest deli- 
cacy is a fi^sh oyster, but a stale one is a source of the 
greatest disgust, and only fit to regale the ghost of that 
Royal George who, when living, never relished a raw 
oyster unless the shell was self-opened on the dish. 



68 THE OTSTEK. 



CHAPTER YIII. 

THE OYSTER AND THE DOCTOR. 

Oyster-eating in Prussia ; Disgusting Wagers ; Oysters better 
tlian Pills ; A Universal Eemedy ; Professional Opinions ; 
When Ladies should eat them ; Eepugnance overcome ; 
Oysters as an external application ; Chemical Analysis ; 
How to tell if dead before opening. 

WHEN in Prussia, I once asked a person who did a 
large retail business in oysters, what class of 
persons he found to be his best customers, and what 
was the number of oysters daily consumed by each in- 
dividual ? 

"The morning scarcely begins to da^sTi," he replied, 
'^ ere ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, and servants, 
both male and female, make their appearance, not only 
from my immediate neighboui'hood, but also from the most 
remote parts of the city, when, on an average, every one 
buys fi'om half a dozen up to a dozen, in addition to 
their purchases for the several families, and in accord- 
ance with their requirements." 

And those who do likewise in Great Britain and Ire- 
land will soon find out the benefit of this nutritive food 
taken thus early on an empty stomach. I once heard of 
an individual who made a bet that he would eat twelve 
dozen oysters, washed down by twelve glasses of Cham- 
pagne, while the cathedral clock of the city which he in- 
habited was striking twelve. He won his bet by placing a 



THE OTSTEE. 69 

dozen fresh oysters in twelve wine glasses, and having 
swallowed the oysters, he washed down each dozen with 
a glass of Champagne. I should not have mentioned this 
disgusting feat, but to add that he felt no evil effects 
fi'om the oysters, proving incontestably the digestive and 
sanitary properties of this mollusk. 

There is a similar tale showing equally the effects of 
oysters on the human digestion. Four persons met one 
Saturday night at an hotel, and made the following bet : 
each person was to call for whatever he might fancy, 
either to eat or to drink, and he who kept longest awake 
was to have no share in the liquidation of the bill. 
This settled, one of the party made a private arrange- 
ment with one of the waiters, promising him a reward 
if, in case of his evincing the slightest drowsiness, he 
would bring him forthwith twenty-five oysters. 

This was accordingly done ; but the waiters had to be 
constantly relieved until 11 o'clock on the following 
^Monday morning, when, observing his three companions 
quietly asleep, our oyster-eating friend called for the 
landlord, and declared himself triumphantly the winner, 
atti-ibuting his good fortune entirely to the oyster. 

"Wise people eat oysters and eschew pills ; take lumps 
of delight, instead of lumps of nausea; uphold the 
Sweetings, Pims, and Lynns, and have nothing to do 
with the Holloways, ^orisons, and '' Old Parrs." 

TThen suffering from almost incurable indigestion, 
by taking oysters daily, they very soon find the most 
agreeable effects on the human kitchen and labora- 
tory; its functions become regular, without the use 
of strong medicines, always dangerous. Depression 



70 THE OYSTER. 

of spirits and other disagreeable feelings consequent 
on impaired digestion soon cease to affect them ; they 
become cheerful and happy, and are enabled again 
to see clearly through the misty atmosphere which 
has hitherto enclosed them in a kind of living shi^oud ; 
physical powers return, headaches disappear, and the 
heretofore dyspeptic, sour, unhappy tempered man be- 
comes a pleasant and joyous companion, full of life him- 
self, and inspiriting to those around him. 

I have liyed a good deal abroad, and am induced to 
ascribe much of the vivacity of the French to their in- 
tense love of oysters. During a long residence in France, 
I never met with a Frenchman or Frenchwoman who said 
nay to a dish of good fresh oysters ; in fact, they have a 
craving for the " breedy creatures," which in many 
persons almosts amounts to gluttony, and then, and 
then only, does this craving lead to mischief. 

Physicians of old recommended the oyster as a general 
remedy, and employed it on all occasions with success. 
It has been proved beyond dispute that it possesses a 
remarkable vivifying influence in all cases where the 
nervous organs are affected, more than any other food. 
Oysters taken before mid-day vtdth a glass of "wine pro- 
duce a most salutary effect. The nerves and muscles 
regain their strength, and the body its mental and physical 
powers, bringing cheerfulness and energy to compete 
with the duties of the day. If not a cure, at all events, 
an oyster diet, under medical supervision, brings un- 
questionable relief to those who are suffering from 
pulmonary complaints, indigestion, or nervous affections. 

Dr. Leroy was in the habit of swallowing, every 



THE OTSTEE. 71 

morning before breakfost, two dozen oysters, and used 
always to say to bis friends, presenting tbem M'itb tbe 
sbells: ^'Tbere, bebold the fountain of my youtbful 
strength !" 

Percy relates baving seen a large number of wounded 
persons, exhausted by tbe loss of blood and bad treat- 
ment, who were entirely kept up by eating oysters ; and 
Dr. Lenac considered them the most nourishing food in 
existence. 

Oysters are strongly recommended to all persons suffer- 
ing from weak digestion ; and Dr. Pasquier adds, that 
''they may be given with great advantage to persons of 
intemperate habits, who, by inefiicacious medical treat- 
ment have fallen into debility and lowness of spirits." 
He also recommends oysters to all who are suffering from 
the gout. I myself knew a person last winter, who was 
suffering from influenza, which, from his being an aged 
man, threatened the most serious consequences, who was 
entirely cured by eating oysters. 

Oysters increase the blood without heating the system, 
and hence when a wound has caused much loss of blood, 
the eating of oysters not only prevents fever, but replaces 
the loss which no other remedy can effect. The great 
Boerhaave affirms to have known a tall, strong man, who 
had fallen into a decline, and who, after all other remedies 
had proved useless, by the use of oysters rapidly recovered, 
became strong, and died ninety-thi^ee years old. 

But to ladies, particularly, do I recommend oysters as 
the best of all light meals between breakfast and dinner. 
At the period of a lady's married life, when nausea is 
prevalent, a few fr-esh oysters, taken raw in their own 



72 THE OYSTER. 

liquor, "vritli no addition but a little pepper, and a faiiy 
slice of French roll or other light bread, stops the feeling 
of sickness, and keeps up the stamina unimpaired. 
During the time, too, when a young child most requires 
maternal care and attention, the mother's diet of oysters 
will impart strength to the infant, and tend much to 
alleviate the pains of its first teething. 

I am well aware that some persons have a repugnance 
to the eating of oysters, and that it may be difficult to 
overcome the dislike. However, as a proof that oysters 
in general are nice to the taste, let me mention that 
children under two years of age eat them with great 
appetite ; and it is only after having discontinued eat- 
ing any for some time that they take a dislike to 
them. 

I have often had the oj)portunity of overcoming this 
dislike, and the result was always satisfactory. The 
method is very simple. Take a French roll (or a piece 
of milk-bread) thinly buttered, and put on it the oyster 
deprived of its beard, squeezing a few drops of lemon 
and peppering it. ''"Well, after all, the taste of the 
oyster is really fine !" is the usual exclamation, and 
after that the joerson has eaten them in their natural 
state with gusto. 

"WTien eaten for health, an oyster is best swallowed in 
its own liquor the moment the shell is opened ; or if too 
cold for the stomach, a sprinkling of pepper will remedy 
the evil. Yinegar counteracts the eff'ect of the oyster 
enriching the blood ; so when the oyster is eaten medi- 
cinally it must be excluded. Dr. Evans, in Xo. 834 of 
the ^' Family Herald " says, that when too many oysters 



THE OTSTEK. 73 

or other shell-fish has been taken, the unpleasant sensa- 
tion excited by such excess may be removed by drinking 
half a pint of hot milk. Persons of delicate constitu- 
tions will do well always to take hot milk after 
oysters. 

But the oyster was also formerly used externally as a 
remedy no less than taken internally for its medicinal 
properties. Its very abundance is a clear proof of the 
bounty and goodness of Providence, fiirnishing us, at 
one and the same time, with such delicious food, and so 
universal a remedy for the ills which man is heir to. 
Ambrois Pare, physician to Charles IX,, and the only 
Protestant whom the king sought to save from the ter- 
rible massacre of St. Bartholomew, by shutting him up 
in his own closet, recommends oysters smashed in their 
shells as an excellent poultice. ^^ This animal, so used," 
says he, ^' diminishes pain, and removes aU heat and 
inflammation in a remarkable manner." As the opinion 
of one, of whom the king himself declared that '' a man 
so useful to all the world ought not to perish like a 
dog," it may be admitted to a place in my little book, 
more particularly as it is borne out by Paul Egona, who 
also recommends oysters being smashed and saturated 
with their own liquor as the very best of all poultices 
for sores or boils. 

Let me, as a close to this chapter, add a few words on 
the chemical analysis of the oyster. The animal itself 
ontains a great proportion of phosphate of iron and 
lime, a considerable quantity of osmozone, and a certain 
imount of gluten and isinglass, being of a peculiar 
aature, which phosphorus penetrates like an element. 

F 



74 THE OTSTEK. 

It also contains a great quantity of particles of salt, the 
same as that of the sea-water in which it lives. 

The oyster-liquor, or, as I have said, more properly 
speaking, its life's blood, contains a great amount of 
hydroidum, kali, sulphur of lime, sulphur of magnesia, 
some organic matter, osmazone, and a very little salt. 
The shell is composed of a very intimate mixture of 
salt, carbonic lime, and animal mucus. It exhibits, 
also, phosphate of lime and magnesia in smaU quanti- 
ties, as also sulphuretted hydrogen. 

At the moment in which natural death ensues, all 
animal matter begins to show its chemical affinities by 
separating again into the elements of which it consists ; 
and as at such times it is always more or less of a 
poisonous nature, it is well to study the method by 
which it may be known whether an oyster was living 
or dead when its shell is opened. This can be seen at, 
a glance. If the muscle appears sunk, it is a proofs 
that the animal was living; but if it appears higher 
and above the oyster, it was dead before it was opened, , 
and the animal is, consequently, unwholesome and unfit 
for food. 



THE OTSTEE. 75 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE OYSTEE ABEOAD. 

British Oysters in Ostend Quarters ; the Whitstable in a Slow 
Coach ; Holstein, Schleswig, and Heligoland Natives ; Nor- 
wegian and Bremer Oysters ; American Oysters ; French 
Oysters ; Dutch Oysters ; Mediterranean Oysters, and Clas- 
sical Judges. 

T AM not wi'iting a book for the man of science. I 
-*- could not if I Tvould. It is for those who love oysters 
for the eating that I have turned author ; and all the 
facts which are strung together in the last chapters were 
put there for their delectation, and not for the sake of 
raising the smile which I saw just now pass over the 
face of my friend Sawbones when I mentioned oyster- 
poultices. Just because I am not scientific, but only 
practical, I shall not trouble myself to notice any of the 
many species of oysters, both at home and abroad, 
which, though pretty in themselves, never find their 
way to the table, which is the sole field of my dis- 
coveries. 

I shall therefore begin my list of foreign oysters 
with the best of them all, the next of kin to our Native, 
and next to it the best oyster in the world. 

1. The Ostend Oyster is nothing more than the 
real British oyster, cleaned and fattened in the Ostend 
oyster-beds. It has a fine, thin, transparent but deep 
sheU, the upper shell being quite flat \ it is very full, 

E 2 



76 THE OYSTEK. 

white, and fat, has a very small beard, and is very 
digestible. During a south-west wind, which brings to 
these beds the microscopic spores of sea vegetation and 
animalcules upon which it delights to feed, from the 
channel, its beard is of a green colour. The Ostend oyster 
is much prized in Berlin, which it reaches the quickest 
of any from the sea, (in thirty-six to forty hours,) 
and consequently lives there several days, remains the 
longest fresh, and can be sent farthest. Last winter 
Ostend oysters were sent to Moscow and Odessa, where 
they arrived still good and tasty. The former were 
seventeen days, and the latter eleven days on their 
way. Scarcely any other kind of oysters could be sent 
to such a distance. In the autumn of 1847, after the 
opening of the Cologne-Minden Eailway, the first trial 
was made of sending these oysters to Berlin, via 
Cologne. The result was most satisfactory ; they sold 
for 1^ thalers the hundred. This caused no little sen- 
sation, especially among the old oyster dealers, who 
were accustomed to receive from five to six, even from 
eight to nine thalers per hundred. The good folks of 
Berlin are now supplied with abundant fresh and fine 
oysters. The Ostend natives may be obtained from the 
owner of the oyster beds in Ostend. I speak of Berlin, 
as the Germans are great oyster-eaters, and the North, 
in a great measure, is supplied from thence. 

In Bmssels, Antwerp, Ghent, Bruges, and Lille, 
Ostend oysters are eaten with slices of home-baked bread, 
and butter. They are served up in their shells, open, 
and not broken apart. They have a tender, fragrant, 
and melting flesh, and are only half the size of ordinary 



THE OTSTEK. 77 

oysters ; but they gain in thickness what they lose in 
size. In Flanders and the ;N"etherlands they are known 
under the name of '' English oysters," but are called in 
Paris after the name of the beds where they are reared. 
They are in reality Edinburgh " I^atives," cleaned and 
fattened in the Ostend oyster-beds, and hence called 
Belgian or Ostend oysters. 

The oyster of Ostend cannot be too much recommended 
to gourmets. It is to the common oyster what a chicken 
is to an old hen. It is a draught of bitter ale to a thirsty 
palate. It is a known fact, that after having abstained 
from food for a long time, the first oyster one eats pro- 
duces a kind of unusual rictus (or opening of the mouth), 
the reason of which physiologists have never been able 
to explain. This same sensation is produced in eating 
an Ostend oyster, but it is much sweeter, more lastingj 
and much more delightful. If the Romans had ever 
known them they would have sung their praises both 
in verse and prose, and would by far have preferred them 
to their sadly over-praised oysters from the Lucrine 
Sea. 

The only oysters which can be brought into competi- 
tion with those of Ostend in the same markets are the 
"Whitstable oysters, which have only recently become an 
article of trade on the Continent. These are also '' na- 
tives" from the Channel, generally larger than the former, 
but unequal, not being sorted, very fat and full, but much 
more tender, and do not keep fresh so long. The cause 
of this may be that they are first taken from "Whitstable 
to London, where they are packed up and sent by sea and 
rail to Hamburgh and Berlin, which takes always from- 



78 THE OYSTER. 

six to seven days. They have a fine flavour, and are by 
some people preferred to the Ostend oysters : although 
the latter, generally speaking, occupy the first rank. 
These two species, and that of Holstein, are the best 
oysters to be met with in the north of Europe. 

2. CJumnel Oijsters. — The oysters which, more par- 
ticularly in the north of Germany, are an article of trade, 
come from the Bay of St. Brieux and the Eock of Can- 
cale, on the British Channel, between the castle of that 
name. Mount St. Michael, and St. Malo, and from the 
Channel between Calais and its exti'eme point near 
Falmouth. The bottom of this sea is flat and firm, and 
its stream near the bottom not very strong, both favour- 
able circumstances for the propagation of oysters. This 
propagation must be very considerable, and the banks 
where the oysters breed very extensive, since, in spite 
of the continual dredging, they produce a sufficient 
quantity without any apparent decrease, to guard against 
which, the new beds of St. Brieux, mentioned in the 
first chapter, are carefully supplied. The di^edging 
lasts generally from the middle of September till the end 
of May ; dui^ing the other months the fishing should 
properly be discontinued, because the spawning, which 
then takes place, would be disturbed, and because during 
that time the oyster is generally not fit for food. 

3. Holstein Oysters are very good and fine, but the 
sea-banks do not afi'ord enough for the present consump- 
tion, so that it is necessary to have good connexions in 
order to obtain real and good Holstein oysters. They 
are easily distinguished from all the other oysters by 
their size, the thin, greenish-blue shells, especially the 



THE OTSTEE. 79 

lower shell. The upper shell is always concaye, by 
which they are the more easily distinguished from the 
Heligolanders, which have always a strong convex upper 
shell. As to the little animal itself, it is very fat, white, 
thick, and tender, and therefore very digestible. It has 
only a small beard, by which it is distinguished from 
the JS'orwegian and Scottish oyster, which, by the 
appearance of the shell, might be mistaken for the 
Holstein oyster by novices in gastronomy. These deli- 
cate favourites are to be obtained from the lessees of 
the Eoyal Oyster-banks on the western coast of Hol- 
stein in Flensburg, in the kingdom of Denmark. 

4. The Schleswich Oyster of Susum and Silt is very 
like the former — almost undistinguishable. It is very 
excellent, but seldom exported, and consumed for the 
most part in Kiel. The two last-named oysters are often 
taken to St. Petersburg by sailors, when making the 
passage to and fro. 

5. The Heligolanders are very large; have thick shells, 
which renders the duty and carriage very high, but are 
not at all hne, and generally sold in all the innocence of 
ignorance by dealers as Holstein oysters. 

Have nothing to do with Norwegian oysters ; I only 
mention them here as things to be shunned. Bremer 
oysters, the NeiiwerTcers, and the Wangerogers, however, 
deserve a better fate. 

6. The Oyster of the Bay of Biscay is of the same 
size as that of Holstein, with a very large beard, like 
those caught in the south of England. The beard, like 
the oyster itself, is quite grass green — a quality which 
is to be found generally only with oysters from Dieppe, 
Cancale, and the Marennes. Its flavour is very fine and 



80 THE OYSTEE. 

good, but great care must be taken, in opening the shell 
and detaching the oyster, not to break the double shell, 
which they mostly possess, for this contains sulphuretted 
hydrogen, which gives a bad smell and flavour to the 
oyster, and poisons the stomach of the consumer. 

7. American Oysters, though, to my taste, by no 
means so delicate as others I have mentioned, are never- 
theless superior for cooking. Por my own part, although 
I have stated that pepper, vinegar, lemon juice, and 
other stimulating ingredients, are commonly made use 
of when eating the oyster, I ofl'er, in all courtesy, the 
decided opinion, that the taste must be vitiated that can 
swallow such in preference to the delicate, fresh, luscious, 
charming little morsel, saturated merely, or perhaps the 
word ought to be merely bedewed, like the rose on a 
summer morning, by its own liquid life's blood. Ame- 
ricans, themselves, generally prefer their large oysters 
even to our British Natives. 

8. French Oysters. — The French oysters are chiefly 
taken from beds in the Bays of Cancale and St. Brieux, 
from Marennes, from Havre and Dieppe, from Dunkirk, 
and from the Bay of Biscay. The three first are very 
fine, but the distance to Paris is too great ; they are there- 
fore dear in that capital. Those from Dunkirk are 
similar to those of Ostend, but not quite so fine ; and 
those from the Bay of Biscay are quite green, and highly 
esteemed in the south of Prance, especially at Bordeaux. 

9. Dutch Oysters are both good and dear. The four 
sorts I recommend are Seelanders, Vliessingers, Middle- 
burgers, and Yieringers. The latter are almost the 
finest and best, but uncommonly dear, and are mostly 
consumed in Holland. 



THE OTSTEK, 81 

10. Mediterranean Oysters. — I have already referred 
to classical authorities for the character the ancients 
gave those of Circe and the Lucrine Sea ; and the old 
rule, *' de mortius nil,''^ forbids me to say in what rank 
I place Horace the inimitable, Seneca the wise, and 
Pliny the naturalist, as judges of what an oyster should 
be. Where ignorance is bliss, people can be very happy. 
Till the Turk, by an accidental fire, had become ac- 
quainted ^-ith the taste of roast pork, there were many 
less fires in Stamboul than now. Till the Romans found 
the Eutupians, the Lucrine flourished ; so did Circe. 



82 THE OTSTEE. 



CHAPTER X. 

''the TKEASrEE OF AX OTSTEE." j 

Sweet names given to Pearls ; Barry Cornwall Proctor's lines ; j 
Component parts of Pearls ; Mother-of-pearl ; How Pearls j 
are formed, Sorrows into Gems ; Their nucleus ; Sir Everard 
Home and Sir David Brewster ; Cui'ious shapes and fancy 
Jewellery ; Pearl Fisheries : Bahrein Island and Bay of Can- 
dalchy ; Miseries of the Divers ; Pearls as Physic ; Immense 
value of recorded Pearls. 

f\F all beautiful things in the world the pearl is the 
^ rarest and most beautiful. I^othing can exceed it, 
nothing can equal it, although they try very hard in 
* Trench" and ''Roman" ways, in glassy globules 
which continually crack, or in round spots of wax, 
which, instead of adorning, adhere to the neck of 
beauty, and when old age comes upon it, turn yellow 
and wrinkled like the skin of a dowager. JS'ay, nothing 
can well imitate it, although art has gone somewhat 
near it. But to a knowing eye one might as well seek 
to imitate truth, or palm away upon the unwary a copy 
of ti-ue virgin innocence as to imitate a pearl. "We 
know all the answers that the dowagers can make; we 
know that the imitations are "so cheap," so pretty; 
we know that certain dowagers — witness Margaret, 
Duchess Dowager of Lancaster — sell their real pearls 
and wear cunning imitations; we know that they in 
Tain try to persuade themselves that the false are as 



THE OYSTEK. 83 

good as the true ones ; but only look hard at the orna- 
ments, and the duchess is abashed. To test false pearls, 
one has only to put a true one by them, and the '' dif- 
ference," as advertisers say, ''Tvill be at once per- 
ceived." 

Let us devote this last portion of our book to the his- 
tory of the pearl. Its very names are pretty. Looloo, 
Mootoo, Mootie, Margaritm, Perles, Perlii, Perlas, Pearlsy 
all sweet, pretty, mouth-rounding names, but worthy 
to be applied to the lustrous and beautiful spheres 
which we call pearls. Principium cidmenque omnium 
rerum pretii tenent: " Of all things, pearls," said 
Pliny, two thousand years ago, " kept the very top, 
highest, best, and first price." ^Tiat was true then 
is true now. There are few things so immortal as 
good taste. Let us pay something " on account" 
of our debt to the oyster. Having regarded that 
placid creditor as an article of food, I now propose 
to treat him as an assistant to the toilet. And, looking 
at him in that point of view, here is not a bad instal- 
ment of the aforesaid debt, contributed by Barry Corn- 
wall. 

" Within the midnight of her hair, 
Half-hidden in its deepest deeps, 
A single peerless, priceless pearl 
(All filmy-eyed) for ever sleeps. 
Without the diamond's sparkling eyes, 
The ruby's blushes — there it lies, 
Modest as the tender dawn, 
When her purple veil's withdrawn — 
The flower of gems, a lily cold and pale. 
Yet, what doth all avail ? — 



84 THE OYSTER. 

All its beauty, all its grace ? 
All the honours of its place ? 
He who pluck' d it fx'om its bed, 
In the far blue Indian Ocean, 
Lieth, without life or motion, 
In his earthy dwelling — dead ! 
All his children, one by one. 
When they look up to the sun, 
Curse the toil by which he drew 
The treasure from its bed of blue." 

Costly as pearls are, they are merely the calcareous 
production of Mollusks. Diamonds have elsewhere 
been shown to he merely charcoal; the pearl is little 
else but concentric layers of membrane and carbonate 
of lime. All Mollusks are instances of that beneficent 
law of nature, that the hard parts accommodate them- 
selves to the soft. The common naked snail, the 
mussel, cockle, oyster, garden helix, strombus, and 
nautilus, elegant or rough, rare or common, each illus- 
trate this grand law. The body of a soft consistence 
is enclosed in an elastic skin. From this skin cal- 
careous matter is continually exuded. This protects 
the animal, and forms the shell. Where the waves are 
rough, and rocks superabundant, then the shell is 
rough, hard, stony, fit to weather anything; where 
only smooth water and halcyon days are to be looked 
for, Nature, which never works in vain, provides but 
paper sides and an egg-shell boat, such as the little 
nautilus navigates and tacks and steers in. 

Besides forming the rough outside, the calcareous 
exuvium, the mucus of the oyster, and other moUusks, 
form that beautiful substance, so smooth and polished. 



I 



THE OYSTEE. 85 

and dyed with rainbow tints and a glorious opalescence, 
which, be it as common as luxury has made it, still 
charms the eye. This is the lining of the shell, the 
mother-of-pearl, nacre. '' The inside of the shell," 
said old Dampier — that old sailor mth a poet's mind — 
**is more glorious even than the pearl itself." 

It is glorious; it has the look of the morning, and 
the tint of the evening sky ; the colours of the prism 
chastened, softened, retained, and made perpetual in 
it : this is mother-o' -pearl. 

To render its bed always soft and cosy, to lie warm, 
packed as one might at Malvern in wet sheets, seems 
to be the oyster's pleasure. This singular exuvium, 
this mucus, not only creates pleasure, but alleviates 
pain. Some irritating substance, some internal worry 
and annoyance, it may be a dead embryo, or a grain of 
sand insinuates itself, and, lo ! the creature covers it 
with this substance to ease off its unkind tooth, and 
converts it into a pearl. 

That is the way they are made, these wondrous gems ! 
And very beautiful is the thought that the most highly 
prized of gems should be but the effect of a creature to 
ease off a sorrow. Every one knows Shakspeare's won- 
drously fine reflection upon the uses of sorrow and 
adversity, which, 

" Like tlie toad, ugly and venomous, 
Bears yet a precious jewel in its head." 

The precious jewel of the toad, which some critics and 
commentators have endeavoured to prove its glitter- 
ing eye, has long been exploded. Our old alchemists 



86 THE OYSTEE. 

belicTed in the toadstone; we do not. The fable 
remains in its pristine beauty ; but here is one truth 
equally beautiful, that the adversity of the oyster 
turns to a jewel so costly and glorious, that monarchs 
reckon it amongst the records of their houses and 
conquered provinces. May we ever turn our sorrows 
and troubles to as good an account ; may we ever con- 
tinue to do so, for assuredly some men do. The best 
of men are those who are tried by affliction and trouble, 
or those who have some deep and secret care, which 
they hide in theii^ hearts, and which makes them wiser 
and better. Shelley has a theory that poets are made 
somewhat after the fashion of pearls, or that, at any 
rate, their poetiy is so produced. He sings — 

" Most ■wi'etclied men 
Are cradled into poetry by wrong ; 
They learn in suffering, what they teach in song." 

AYe have very little doubt but that the trae poetry from 
which the world learns anything worth learning is so 
produced. 

There have been other theories as to the production 
of the pearl, some holding that the interior formation 
which we state to be a grain of sand, is a dead ovum 
which the fish attempts to exude. This theory, too, has 
its supporters. 

''If," said Sir Everard Home, " if I can prove that 
this, the richest jewel in a monarch's crown, which 
cannot be imitated by any art of man" (he is rather 
wrong there; it can be imitated, and wonderfully 
imitated too,) " either in beauty of form or biilliancy of 



THE OTSTEE. 87 

lustre, is the abortive egg of an oyster enveloped in its 
own nacre, who will not be struck with wonder and 
astonishment?" "Wonder and astonishment are words 
which scarcely exist now. Science has shown so many 
wonders that we are hardly astonished at anything ; but 
Sir Everard's assertion admits of proof. A pearl cut in 
two exhibits the concentric layers like an onion, as may 
be seen through a strong lens ; and in the centre is a 
round hole, very minute it may be, but wherein the 
ovum has been deposited. 

Sometimes the ovum, or sand, or enclosed substance 
has attached itself to the shell, and has then been 
covered with mucus, forming a pearl which cannot be 
separated from the shell. There are several specimens 
of such pearls in the British Museum. 

The great beauty in pearls is their opalescence, and -a 
lustre which, as we have before observed, however clever 
the imitation, has never yet been given to artificial 
pearls. Sir Everard Home supposes that this lustre 
arises from the highly polished coat of the centre shell, 
the pearl itself being diaphanous. Sir David Brewster 
accounts for it by the pearl and mother-of-pearl having 
a grooved substance on its surface resembling the 
minute corrugations often seen on substances covered 
with oil, paint, or varnish. Philosophers are some- 
times not very explanatory. Sir David means to say 
that beneath the immediate polish of the pearl there are 
certain wavelets and dimples from which the light is 
reflected. '^The direction of the grooves," again to 
quote Sir David, ''is in every case at right angles to 
the line joining the coloured image; hence, in iiTegu- 



88 THE OYSTEK. 

larly formed mother-of-pearl, where the grooves are 
often circular, and have every possible direction, the 
coloured images appear irregularly scattered round the 
ordinary image." 

In the regular pearl these are crowded, from its 
spherical form, into a small space ; hence its marvellous 
appearance of white unformed light, and hence its 
beauty and value. 

To prove the ti'anslucency of the pearl, we have only 
to hold one which is split to a candle, where, by inter- 
posing coloured substance or light, we shall have the 
colour transmitted through the pearl. Curious as is 
the formation of the pearl, we have yet a cognate sub- 
stance to it. What we call lezoar, and the Hindoos 
faduj, is a concretion of a deepish olive-green colour 
found in the stomach of goats, dogs, cows, or other 
animals : the hog bezoar, the bovine bezoar, and the 
camel bezoar ; this last the Hindoos turn into a yellow 
paint ; but the harder substances the Hindoo jewellers 
polish and thread and use as jewels ; so that from the 
stomach of the lower animals, and from the secretions 
of a shell-fish, the still grasping, prying, worrying, 
proud, vain-glorious, busy man gets him an ornament 
for her whom he most loves, for him whom he most 
honours. 

The question of obtaining pearls and of slaying 
divers, of feeding sharks with human limbs, of the eye- 
balls starting and the tympanum of the ear biu'sting, of 
the pains, perils, and penalties of the pearl divers, must 
be touched incidentally in any true account of this pre- 
cious gem. 



THE OTSTEK. 89 

Vanity demands the aid of Cruelty, and for her grati- 
fication human sacrifices are still made. 

In the Persian Gulf, at Ceylon, and in the Eed Sea, 
the early sources of the Greeks and Eomans, we yet 
find our supply. Pearls are also found in the Indian 
Ocean along the Coromandel coast and elsewhere; as 
also in the Gulf of California ; but the two grand head- 
quarters are in Bahrein Island, in the Persian Gulf, 
and in the Bay of Condalchy, in the Gulf of llanaar, 
off the Island of Ceylon. 

The fishery at Ceylon is a monopoly of the British 
Government, but, like many Government monopolies, it 
is said to cost a great deal more than it produces. In 
1804 Government leased it for £120,000 per annum; 
in 1828 it only yielded £28,000.^ It is a desert and 
barren spot ; no one can fall in love with it ; sands and 
coral reefs are not picturesque; yet, in its season, it 
attracts more to its shores than one of our best water- 
ing-places. Divers, merchants, Arab-hawkers, drillers, 
jewellers, and talkers; fish-sellers, butchers, boat- 
caijlkers, and Hindoo Robinsons and "Walkers are aU 
found there. The period is limited to six weeks, or 
two months at most, from Pebruary to April; and 
whilst they are making money these people are rather 
eager, look you. But the fishers themselves, victims of 
cruelty as they are, are also victims to their own super- 

* The pearl fisliery at Ceylon, however, has been very profitable 
during the present year, the yield being sometimes worth from 
10,000 dollars to 30,000 dollars per day. An attempt is being 
made to re-establish the pearl fishery in the Gulf of California. 
Some very fijie pearls were found there nearly a century ago. 

a 



90 THE OYSTER. 

stition and ignorance. A Hindoo or Parsee blesses the 
Trater to drive away the sharks ; a diver may be fright- 
ened or ill, and the holidays are so numerous, that the 
actual work-days amount only to thirty in the season. 

The boats assembled sail at ten at night, a signal gun 
being then let off. They then set sail, reach the banks 
before daybreak, and at sunrise the divers begin to take 
their *' headers." They continue at this work till noon, 
when a breeze starting up, they return. The cargoes 
are taken out before the night sets in, and the divers 
are refreshed. 

Each boat carries twenty men — ten rowers and ten 
divers — ^besides a chief, or pilot. The diners work five 
at a time alternately, leaving the others time to recruit. 
To go down quickly they use a large stone of red 
granite, which they catch hold of with their foot. 
Each diver holds a net-work bag in his right hand, 
closes his nostrils with his left, or with a piece of bent 
horn, and descends to the bottom. There he darts 
about him as quickly as he can, picking up with toes 
and fingers, and putting the oysters into his net-work 
bag. "WTien this is full, or he is exhausted, he pulls the 
rope, and is drawn, leaving the stone to be pulled up 
after him. "When the oysters are very plentiful, the 
diver may bring up one hundred and fifty at a dip. 

After this violent exertion, blood flows from nose, 
ears, and eyes. The divers cannot exceed generally one 
minute's immersion. One and a half, and even two, 
have been reached by extraordinary efforts. Those who 
can endure four and five minutes are spoken of. One 
also we are told of — an apocryphal fellow, we should 



THE OYSTER. 91 

think — who coming in 1797 from Arjango, stayed under 
water six minutes. 

The divers live not to a great age. Heart diseases, 
surfeits, sores, blood- shot eyes, staggering limbs, and 
bent backs — these are part of their wages. Some- 
times they die on reaching the surface, suddenly, as if 
struck by a shot. 

At Bahrein, the annual amount produced by the pearl 
fishery may be reckoned at from £200,000 to £240,000; 
add to this purchases made by the merchants of Aboota- 
bee, and we have £360,000 to include the whole pearl 
trade of the Gulf, since, through their agents at Bahrein, 
merchants from Constantinople, Bagdad, Alexandria, 
Timbuctoo, jS'ew York, Calcutta, Paris, St. Petersburg, 
Holy Moscowa, or London, make their purchases. 

''But," says our credible informant, "I have not- 
put down the sum at one-sixth of that told me by the 
native merchants." But even then an enormous amount 
is that, to be used in mere ornament, and in one article 
only. 

Well, not exactly ornament. ''In Eastern lands," 
says Mr. Thomas Moore, " they talk in flowers." Yery 
flowery certainly is their talk. They also, good easy peo- 
ple, take pearls for physic — not for dentifrice — ^^Easterns 
always having white teeth, apparently, so far as I have 
been able to judge, without the trouble of cleaning them 
— but as a regular dose. They call it majoon ; it is an 
electuary, and myriads of small seed pearls are ground 
to impalpable powder to make it. As for the adultera- 
tion in this article, doubtless to be found, I say nothing. 
The simple lime from the inside of the shell would be 

G 2 



92 THE OYSTER. 

just as white and just as good. Common magnesia 
would have the same effect; but, good sirs, if an old 
Emir, or rich Bonze, wishes to pay an enormous price 
for something to swallow to comfort his good old inside, 
why not ? Do not let us brag too much : fi'om the 
time of old Gower, doctor of physic, to Dr. Cheyne, 
we have, sir, swallowed everything, from toads' brains 
to the filings of a murderer's irons, as very proper 
physic. 

The Bahrein fishery-boats amount to 1500, and the 
trade is in the hands of merchants who possess much 
capital. This they lend out at cent, per cent. ; they buy 
up, and they beat down ; they juggle, cheat, rig the 
market, rob in a legal way a whole boat's crew, grow 
enormously rich, and preach morality. 

^Nor do they forget superstition. In the chief boat, 
when they fish, sits a jolly old cheat, a magician, called 
the binder of sharks, who waves about his skinny hands, 
jumps, howls, incants, and otherwise exerts his cabalistic 
powers, and will not allow the divers, nor are they 
willing, to descend till he declares the moment pro- 
pitious. To add some weight to their devotions, they 
debar themselves of food or drink during this Ifumho- 
Juniho play, but afterwards a species of toddy makes 
them like ^' Roger the Monk," — " excessively drunk." 

The true shape of the peaii should be a perfect sphere. 
In India, and elsewhere, those of the largest size find 
the readiest sale, and realize immense prices. The very 
finest pearls are sent to Europe, and of these the very 
finest of the fine are sent to London and Paris. Thence 
the great people of the land procure their choice speci- 



THE OTSTEE. 93 

mens. The late Emperor of Eussia used to purchase for 
his wife — of whom he was exceedingly fond, and who 
has lately joined him in that bourne from which neither 
traveller, emperor, king, nor beggar ever returns — 
the veiy finest pearl he could procure : a virgin pearl 
and a perfect sphere was what he sought, for he would 
not have any that had been worn by others. After five- 
and-twenty years' search, he presented to the Empress 
such a necklace as had never been seen before. 

Immense prices have been given and are still given 
for pearls. Julius Caesar, in love with the mother of 
Marcus Brutus, is said to have presented her with a pearl 
worth £48,417 lOs., which we can believe or not, ac- 
cording to our natures. Cleopatra, as all the world has 
read, drank, dissolved in vinegar, a pearl which cost 
£80,729 of our money, and, as we know from Shaks- 
peare, Marc Antony sent to her '* a treasure of an oyster" 
of wondrous beauty. Clodius, the glutton (surely a 
gourmet, not a gourmand), swallowed one worth £8072 
1 8s. One of the modem pearls was bought by Tavemier 
at Catifa, and sold by him to the Shah of Persia for 
£110,000 ; another was obtained by Philip II. of Spain, 
off the Columbian coast, which weighed 250 carats, and 
was valued at 14,400 ducats, which is equal to about 
£13,996. 

Pliny, the naturalist, tells us of a pearl which was 
valued at £80,000 sterling. That which Philip II. had 
was nearly as large as a pigeon's egg. Pliny's was 
somewhat smaller. Put size is not alone the test of 
value. Shape and form must be taken into considera- 
tion. Some pearls are very curiously misshapen, and of 



94 THE OYSTEK. 

SO large a size that it would seem a wonder how the fish 
could exist with them in the shell. These misshapen 
pearls are generally of an uneven surface and lustre, and 
are prized by the Eastern jewellers very much, and 
were also sought after by the fanciful goldsmiths and 
enamellers of the cmque-cento period, when they were set 
into sword-hilts, or formed into toys or gems, just as 
the fancy and shape might suggest. "We have seen one 
large long pearl mounted by a Spanish jeweller into the 
order of the golden fleece, the legs and head of the sheep 
being of gold, the body formed by the pearl. Amongst 
the loot taken at Lucknow was a set of miniature ani- 
mals and birds, all formed of large but misshapen pearls, 
the tails, heads, eyes, &c., of the creatures being of gold 
set with diamonds. Any one who has seen much me- 
diaeval work in the precious metals, or the illuminated 
pages of early printed books on vellum, of Italian exe- 
cution, will be able to recall many curious instances of 
this quaint kind of vertu. 

The largest pearl of which we have heard was one 
spoken of by Boethius, the size of a muscadine pear. It 
was named the Incomparable, and weighed thirty carats 
or five pennyweights. Tavernier's pearl would, if en- 
graved, well illustrate the rocky, eccentric, and oft- 
times triangular shapes in which these gems are found. 
They often adhere to the shell, and cannot be removed 
without the saw. After such an operation they would 
merely rank as half pearls, which, by the way, are 
those generally mounted in jewellery and rings. 

Did our scope allow of a description of the manufac- 
ture from fish scales of the substitute for the real pearl. 



THE OTSTEE. 95 

the marvellously clever imitation which is worn, wit- 
tingly, by many a gracious lady, and unwittingly by 
many another, we should have another interesting story 
to tell. But these imitations may be considered as 
frauds upon our placid creditor the oyster — or, shall we 
say, compositions with him, and beneath the notice of, 
debtors who are trying to behave honestly to a bivalve. 
Properly speaking, however, the Pearl oyster {Avi- 
cula mar-garitacea), from which the greater number 
of pearls, and the largest quantity of mother-of-pearl 
is obtained, is not an oyster strictly so called, but be- 
longs to an allied genus. The pearl oyster is an oval- 
pointed recurved-edged mussel; the lower shell with a 
hood-shaped hollow point, the upper one like a cover, 
leafy and pearly, of a rosy purple-white colour. The 
common oyster ( Ostrea edulis), on the contrary, has a • 
round-oval mussel-shell, thin towards the edges, with 
tiled leaves adhering to one another, the upper shell 
quite flat. Some variety exists in these, some having 
elongated edges, owing to the difference of age. 

Gentle reader ! when Queen Mary, whom men call 
" Bloody Mary," died, and Queen Elizabeth, Protestant 
Elizabeth, came to the throne, Osorius, the good Bishop of 
Arcoburge, a staunch bishop of the Church of Eome, sent 
her a sugared pill, which he hoped would at once convert 
the queen, and drive out the '' obnoxious heresy" from 
the land. That all might read it, he himself wrote it in 
Latin: ^^ JSpistola ad Clarissimam Principam JElizabe- 
tliam ;'''' had it translated into French, which honest old 
Strype says ''gave great offence," as '' une hien longue 



yt THE OYSTEK. 

et docte Epistre a Madame EU%aleth, Royne d* Angleterre ;''^ 
and to gild the nasty thing, called it, in English, '' A 
Perle for a Prince ;" but all the ingenuity of quackery 
could not disg[uise the drastic pill, and neither the queen 
nor her lieges would swallow it. I have seen all three 
books in the Grenville Library in the British Museum, 
and at once pronounce them nothing but ''mock" pearls., 
l^ow, I have extracted for your delectation a real pearl 
out of the Oyster, in the shape of this little book. It ig 
Christmas-tide. Cherish it for those best of pearls, 
kindly thoughts and loving remembrances, which the 
Oyster calls into being when the Holly and the Mistle- 
toe deck our walls. 



LONDON : WILLIAM STEVENS, PEINTEE, BELL XAED, TEMPLE BAE. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 747 



