Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 





^;i»- 




^^^K. .2_^^^^r ' 




•\ •* • . 




1 *^^ *• '^' 


<^«'. 


1 -"^ • • <f* 






> 



#.♦ 



f 



eooosesess 



I' 



• •« 



V 



•%m 



# 



m* 



' •.' 



ff 



(- 



♦•* 



# 



*«r-* 



• ** 



•• • 



*. 



•* 






• 



lit- 



*->•> 



*v» 



,f 



t 



4 



• t 









% 




!■»♦» 



«^ 




* • 



I 



f- 



a^- 



• if. 



FAMILY SAYE-ALL 



EXCELLENT DISHES FOE BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, 

DINNER, ASD, SUPPER, FROM COLD AND 

OTHER FRAGMENTS 



INVALUABLE HINTS 

FOB ECONOMY IN THE USE OF EVERY ABTICLE OF 
HOUSEHOLD CONSUMPTION. 



EDITOR OP "ENQUIRE WITHIN," etc. 

•"S'-^. SECOND ESITION. 



W. KENT & Co., 23, PATERNOSTER ROW 

AKD SOLD BY ALL B 



^^. ^. ^^. 




I • 



PBINTBD BT 
SUMFIBLD ABO JOBB8. W£8T HABDIBO 0TBBBX 

PBTTBB LABB. 



V 



«' 



PREFACE. 

A LITTLE while ago, Professor Faraday delivered in the 
theatre of one of our National Institutions a Series of 
Lectures upon the "Philosopht op a Candle." Inter- 
esting as that Philosophy may be, the teachings of the 
*' Save- All " surpass it in importance and utility ; for 
the latter include the former and, in addition thereto, 
suggest a practical moral lesson. The introduction of gas, 
and the application of various oils to the purposes of 
illumination, have almost thrown into oblivion the simple 
domestic instrument which we have adopted as our emblem, 
and the name of which we have chosen as our Title- 
prepared to endure criticism. 

In the compilation of the following pages, we have done 
our utmost to apply the economical teachings of the Save* 
All to every article of Household Consumption. Tlie 
first division of the work will be found to consist of a care- 
fully prepared system of Secondaby Cookeby, comprising 
Receipts for preparing good and tempting Dishes from Cold 
Meats, Vegetables, and Sweets, which may be re-sebved, 
with all the warmth and nicety of appearance of original 
Cookery. That such information was greatly needed*-that 
no previous work gave satisfactory information upon the 
subject, or even attempted to supply it— every Housekeeper 
must be aware. Perhaps there are none but the houses •of 
the wealthier classes in which joints and other eatables are 
not, as a general rule, sent to the table twice or even thrice. 



IV PREFACE. 

That cold meats are acceptable at times, no one will deny ; 
but that, to the English appetite, a good warm and savoury 
meal is always preferable to the cheerless repast of " cold 
mutton," and the like, is proverbially established. 

The First Division of the Work contains also numerous 
Receipts for Cooking what may be termed the Secondary 
Farts of Animals, such as the heart, liver, tripe, head, feet, 
etc., and compounding from these usually cheap and slightly 
esteemed portions, dishes of many kinds that will rival the 
best joints, and win the suffrages of those who rejoice in 
what is plainly but appropriately termed " A Good Family 
Dinner." 

The Second Division consists of Invaluable Hints for 
the performance of Practical Matters in the Household, the 
Garden, and the Farm ; and many excellent Suggestions, 
hitherto unpublished, are given in this portion of the work. 
These Suggestions are in no respect theoretical, but have 
be^n well tried, and their value ascertained. 

The Family Save- All must not be regarded as a mere 
Cookery Book with a new Title; nor as a Book of old 
Receipts put forth with false pretension to novelty. The 
contents are, for the most part, entirely new ; and there 
is not a page of the work upon which some really useful 
piece of information may not be found : information calcu- 
lated to simplify Household Duties, to Increase the Comforts 
of Home, and Enlarge the Profits of Labour. 

The Reader may possibly ask what is the use or applica- 
tion of the humorous and sentimental paragraphs that follow 
the Receipts ? Their purpose may be explained by two 
similes: they are the "decoys" by which we propose to 
ensure the attention of the Reader— -to lead him on and 
on, from page to page — until, stumbling upon one good 
thing here, and another there, he will find out the value 



PBEFACE. ,V 

of the Book, and apply its good Suggestions to his 
Household Management. Or, they may be regarded as 
the "condiment" — ^the spices, pepper, and salt, by which 
the appetite of the Header will be whetted, and he will 
be tempted to prolong, and the more enjoy, the repast^ 
prepared for him. Books of Receipts are not usually Read ; . 
they are but occasionally referred to : we want this one to 
be studied, because its Hints are Realities, its Receipts 
are Boons, worthy of universal acceptance. 

We do not hesitate to say, that, if the Hints that will be 
found in the work are generally acted upon in any Household, 
the expenditure upon the total consumption of that Household 
will be reduced One Fourth. That is to say: If Two' 
Hundred Founds a Year have hitherto been expended, the 
general adoption of the Frugal Hints here given will effect 
a Saving of Fi^ Founds annually, and yet yield a 
great increase of Comfort. 

The Editor avails himself of the present opportunity of 
thanking the Fublic for the high estimation in which for 
several years they have held his Domestic and Educational 
Works. Of his various productions, such as " Enquire 
Within," "The Reason Why," etc., etc., more than 
Half-a-Miluon Volumes have been sold in Great Britain, 
and quite as large a number in the American States. 
Such a mark of public approval constitutes a great reward, 
of which perhaps there can be no better acknowledgment 
than to continue industriously and perseveringly in the 
course of useMuess already so successfully pursued. 

London, 186L 



THERE'S NOTHING LOST. 



Thsbe*b nothing lost. The tiniest flower 

That grows within the darkest vale, 
Though hid from view, has still the power 

Tba rarest perftime to exhale; — 
That perftime, borne on cephjrr's wings, 

Ifoy visit some lone sick one's bed. 
And lilce the balm afRaction brings, 

*Twill scatter gladness round her head. 



There*8 nothing lost. The drop of dew 

That trembles in the rose-bod's breast 
Will' seek its home of ether bine. 

And fiill again as pore and blest; 
Perchance to revel in the sprav, 

To cool the dry and parching sod, 
TO mingle in the fonntain sprav 

Or sparkle in the bow of God. 



There's nothing lost. The seed that*s cast 

By careless hand npon the ground 
W31 yet take root, and may at last 

A green and glorioos tree be found; 
Beneath its shade, some pilgrim may 

Seek shelter from the heat of noon. 
While in its boughs the breezes play, 

And song-birds sing thefr sweetest tune. 



There's nothing lost. The slightest tone 

Or whisper from a loved one's voice 
Hay melt a heart of hardest stone. 

And make a saddened breast rejoice; 
And then, perchance, the careless word 

Our thoughtless lips too often speak 
May touch a heart already stirred. 

And cause that troubled heart to break. 



Thereli nothing lost. The fidntest strain 

Of breathings fSrom some dear one's lute 
In memory's dream may come again 

Though every mouinftil string be mute: 
The music of some happier hour— 

The harp that swculs with love's own word! 
May thrill me soul with deepest power, 

When BtUl the hands that swept its chordf . 



ITim Itt Iff matt flhs pUm our owtk^ 

For Htaom't t&iuMngt art tht bttt: 
Tht Iktaing that It wUtlp uted, 

Jnertattt, and vt'rt doubfy bltt^dl 
And, bt our M vOh KcA or poor. 

By tunthint wirm'd, or Umputt totted, 
80 gtridt our handt that we map joy— 

" Thtrt't notMag Watted, noting Lott.* 



THB 



lAMILT SAYE-ALL 



PART I. 



SECONDABY COOKEEY. 



An Excellent Padding from Cold Roast Beef. 

Mince about a pound of the cold Beef, add to it one tea- 

spoonful of salt, the same of flour, and half that quantity 

of pepper; rpxn well; fill the paste with the 

Hint 1 prepared meat, and add a gill of water ; a little 

chopped onions and parsley may be added ; cover 

in the ordinary manner, shake well, and tie in a cloth. 

Boil for half an hour, or longer, if the paste is thick. 

Chopped gherkins, pickled walnuts, or mushrooms, may 

be added, or a little of the vinegar of any well-seasoned 

pickle. 

2 1^ Puddings of cold Veal and Bacon, Mutton, Lambf 
Fowls, Babbits, or Game, may be made in a similar manner. 

Matter of ih» House: Oh ! Mary! what is there for dinser to-day? 

Mary: I think, sir, it's cold meat, sir. 

Master of the Uouee: H*in! tell yoar mistress, Mary, when she comes in, that I may 
possibly be detained in the City on business, and she is on no OKOimt to waiU 
dinrur for me. 



2 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

Cold Beef Hashed in a Plain hut Relishable manner, 

with or without Bones. 

Slice the Beef in very thin pieces, and shake a little 

flour over it. Chop a middle-sized onion, and put it into 

a stew-pan with a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, 

Hint 3 and an equal quantity of mushroom catchup ; boil 

these together for two minutes, and then add half 

a pint of stock or gravy ; boil this down to half its quantity^ 

throw in the beef, set the hash to boil for five minutes longer, 

and then serve with sippets of bread round it. 

4 1^ The sauce may be served with bones of the beef 
Broiled and Deviled. The bones may be placed, if broken 
into small pieces, in the centre of the hash, or on a separate 
dish. 

Sdcpucitt is good, if Liberality be Joined with it. The first is leaving off superfluous 
expenses; the last is bestowing them to the benefit of others tiiat need. The first 
without the last begets covetousness ; the last without the first, prodigality. Both 
make an excellent temper. Happy the place where they are found. 

" Doctor," said a querulous suffering invalid, who had paid a good deal of money for 
physic to little apparent purpose, " you don't scfiem to reach the seat of my disease. 
Why don't you strike at the root of my disorder ? " " So I will," was the prompt reply, 
**ifyou insist on it;" and, lifting his cane, he tmashed the brandy bottle on the 
sideboard. 

A very agreeable dish from Cold Beef mincedy with 

Bread Sippets, 8fc. 

Cut the cold Beef into small dice, and put it into a stew- 
pan with any savings of beef gravy ; add a little warm 
water, some mace, sliced eschalot, salt, and black 
Hint 6 pepper. Let it simmer very gently for an hour, 
A few minutes before it is to be served, take out 
the meat and dish it ; add to the gravy some walnut catchup, 
and a little lemon juice, or walnut pickle. Boil up the 
gravy once more, and, when hot, pour it over the meat. 
Garnish with bread sippets. 

At a corporation dhmer, one of the livery servants, an Irishman, went to a gentle- 
man who was carving a joint of beef, and said, " 111 trouble you, if you please, for a 
slice for my master." "Certainly; how does your master like it?" Upon which the 
valet retorted, "Man alive, how can I tell how he likes it, untti he hoe tasted itt" 

Snooks says there is a marked difference between birds and women. As an 
illustration of this, he cites the feet that a bit of looking-glass on a fruit tree will 
/righten away every bird that approaches it, while the same article would aitraci 
more fa\r ones than a load qf cherries. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 3 

A capital and ready dish from Fragments of Raw Beef 

• 

In trimming, boning, and rolling joints of Beef, there 
are very often loose bits cut off. These, with other beef, 

may be made useful in the following way : — Chop 
Hint 6 the beef very small, and add salt and pepper. Put 

this, in its raw state, into small jars, and pour on 
the top some clarified butter. When intended for use, scrape 
off the clarified butter, and put it into a frying-pan ; slice 
some onions into the pan and fry them. Add a little water, 
and then put in the minced meat. Stew it a few minutes, 
and it will be ready to serve up. This keeps well, and is 
always ready at hand to make an extra dish, when a guest 
accidentally drops in, and provisions are short. 

■* Madav," add Old R(^er to his landlady, " in primltiTe countries, beef is often the 
legal tender ; but madam," said he empliaUcally, striking his foric into tlie steak before 
liizn, ^aS the Una in Christendom couldn't make thii b^f tender.*' 

If yon would relish yonr food, labour for it ; if you would enjoy your raiment, pay 
for it before you wear it; if you would sleep soundly, take a dear conscience to 
bed teith you. 



A Snack from Roasted Beef Bpnes. 

Divide the Bones, leaving good pickings of meat on 

each; score them in squares; pour a little melted butter 

on them, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt ; 

Hint 7 put them on a dish ; set them in a Dutch oven for 

half or three-quarters of an hour,^ according to 

the thickness of the meat ; keep turning till they are quite 

hot and brown ; or broil them on the gridiron. Brown them, 

but don't bum. Serve with a nice gravy or grill sauce. 

8 1^^ A very relishing luncheon or supper, prepared 
-with Poached or Fried Eggs and Mashed Potatoes as accom- 
paniments. 

At a recent fiestiTe meeting, a married man, who should have known better, pro> 
posed ** The ladies, who divide our sorrows^ double our Jojfs^ and trtble our expenses," 

A OEicTLEMAX, who greatly disliked the custom of giving fees to servants, provided 
himself with some farthings, and, on leaving the next jmrty he attended, presented 
one to the footman, as he stood at tlie d(K>r. ** I beg your x>ardon, sir," said Johnny, 
" bat yoa have made a mistake?" ** Oh, no," said the gentteman ; ** /never give less.** 

B 2 



4 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

A Dish from Gold Beef or Muttony mth Potatoes and 

Bone Gravy. 

Mince either of the above cold meats. Take all the 

bones you have saved for some days, and chopping them 

in pieces, put them in a saucepan, with cold pota- 

Hint & toes, or potatoes boiled at the time for the purpose ; 

or peeled and sliced raw. When the potatoes 

are thoroughly incorporated with the gravy, take out the 

bones, and put in the meat ; stew the whole toge ther for an 

hour before serving. 

" What a small kitchen!" exclaimed Qaeen Elizabeth, after f^oing over a handsome 
mansion. ** It is hy having so imaU a kiUMn that I am enabled to Iceep so largt.a 
mansion" replij^d the otrasx. 

A nice dish from Cold Beef with Mashed Potatoes. 

Mash potatoes, either in a plain way, or with hot milk, 

and the yolk of an egg, and add some butter and salt. 

__. Slice the cold Beef and lay it at the bottom of a 

pie dish, adding to it some sliced eschalots, pepper, 

salt, and a little beef gravy ; cover the whole with 

a thick paste of the potatoes, and make the crust to rise 

like a pie cnist. Score the potato crust with the point of 

a knife in squares of equal size. Put the dish before a 

fire in a Dutch oven, and brown it on all sides. When 

nicely browned, serve immediately. This, with an apple 

tart or dumpling to follow, is a capital make-shift dinner 

for a small family ; or a nice supper for a winter's evening. 

An Irish housemaid, who was srat to call a gentleman to dinner, found him engaged 
in using a tooth-brush. " Well, is he coming?" said the lady. *♦ Yes, ma'am, directly, 
he's just sharpening his teethl" 

'^Rissoles " of Cold Beef Mutton^ or Veal 

Mince cold Beef or Mutton, season it to liking, and 

moisten with a little mushroom or walnut catchup. Make 

with beef dripping a very thin paste, and roll it 

into thin pieces about four inches square ; enclose 

^^ in each piece some of the mince, in the same way 

as for puflfe, cutting each neatly round ; fiy them in dripping 

of a very light brown. The paste can scarcely be rolled 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 5 

out too thin. Cold Veal may be dressed in the same way, 
grating into it some bits of cooked ham, and mixing with 
white sauce, flavoured with mushrooms. The same mince 
may be fried in balls without pastry, being first cemented 
together with egg and bread crumbs, 

NsvER go late to a friend's dinner ; for yon may have observed that when a company 
is waiting for a guest, they fill up the time by loading him with abuse. 

To make a very relishable dish from Cold Beef or 
MuttoTiy with the addition of Poached Eggs, 

Take the inside of a sirloin of Beef or of a leg of Mutton, 

(These parts are recommended, but any other parts may be 

. used.) Cut into slices of equal thickness, and 

broil them carefully over a clear smart fire, until 

slightly brown. Lay them upon a dish before the 

fire to keep hot ; then poach some eggs, and lay around the 

meat, or mashed potatoes, or both. For sauce, add a few 

drops of eschalot wine or vinegar, or any favourite gravy 

or sauce. This is a savoury zest for luncheon or supper; 

and it is proper to observe that the under-done parts of 

meat are best for the purpose. 

f 

Chables the Second gave the name to the piece of beef called the "Sirloin.** 
Having dined from a loin, and being well pleased with the joint, he asked its name, and 
being told that it was a loin of beef, said jocosely that it slionld be knighted fbr its 
merits ; then extending his sword over it, he exclaimed, " Henceforth be &xr Loin** 

Nice Patties from Undei'-done Beef 

Cut the meat into small dice, season with pepper, salt, 
and a little chopped onion. Make a plain paste, 

and roll it out thin; fill it with the mince, close 

IS 

up, and fry or bake to a light brown, 

14 ^' Or make Eolls or Pasties in a similai* manner. 
Add a little warm beef gravy, when the pasties are served. 
This may be done by making a hole in the paste, and 
pouring in the gravy before they are sent to table. 

•* Mt dear," inquired a yoimg wife of her husband, as she turned up her rosy littte 
mouth to be kissed, '* have you seen the magnificent set of walnut ftimiture which the 
Jenkinses have just bought?** ** Hem 1 no, my love, but I've seen the bUl, which quite 
latiafles mel" 



6 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

t 

Under^done Beefy served as Steaks, with Cold Cabbage 

or Potatoes^ warmed. 

Cut the meat in slices, an inch and a half thick, securing 

a good proportion of fat ; lay them on a gridiron over a 

__.. quick fire ; turn often, but do not stick a fork into 

them ; as soon as brown, lay them on a very hot 

dish, which has been rubbed with eschalot, and 

pour over some hot gravy of the joint, and a spoonful of 

warmed catchup. Add salt and pepper. 

16 i^p" If the seasoning is added while the meat is being 
broiled, the latter will be hardened, and the pieces wasted. 
The steaks will be jound excellent served upon Warmed 
Cabbage chopped, with butter, pepper, and salt added ; or 
the cabbage in a separate dish, with sliced Fried Potatoes 
round it. 

Two gentlemen were talking In a coffee-house of the best method of dressing a beef 
steak. One of them observed, that, of all receipts, the one given in the words of 
Macbeth, when he deliberates on the intended death of the king, is the best : — 

" If it were done, when 'tis done, then 'twere well 
It were done quickly." 

A niee Disk from Cold Carrots and Beef 

Slice the Beef and the carrots; put an onion to a good 

gravy, either from the joint, or stewed from the bones; let 

__.. t^e caiTots and beef simmer in the gravy ; add 

vinegar, pepper, and salt ; thicken the gravy, 

• and take out the onion, or not. Serve hot, with 

bread sippets. 

" Mt dear," said a young wife, returning from a ball, " I have learned one of the 
most difficult steps." " There is a step," replied the husband, " the most valuable of 
all ; but it is one, I fear, you will never care to learn." " Indeed 1 what can that be ? " 
*'It is to step into the kUchen!** 

Hebe is a recipe to get rid of an old acquaintance, whose society you do not like : — 
If he is poor, lend him some money ; if he is rich, ask him to lend you some. Both 
means are certain. 

A nice Breakfast, Luncheon, or Supper Relish, from 

Potted Cold Beef 

Having a joint of dressed Beef, which cannot be con- 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 7 

sumed, proceed in the following manner: — Drain the meat 

—.. , from gravy, pull it to pieces, and beat it in a 

mortar with mixed spices, and oiled fresh butter, 

^^ till it resembles a stiff paste. Flavour it with 

anchovy, eschalot, chervil, or tarragon, dried and powdered. 

Put it into small potting cans, press down, and cover with 

plenty of clarified butter. 

19 U^ The more it is beaten in the mortar, the better 
it will be, and keep longer. 

"Why did you leave your last place?" inquired a young housekeeper, about to 
engage a new servants '* Why, you see, ma'am," replied the applicant, " I was too 
good looking, and, when I opened the door, folks took me /or tfte missus!^* 

^ very nice Family Dish from Cold Beef and Mashed 

Potatoes and Flour. 

Cut the cold meat into slices, half an inch thick, four 

inches long, and two inches broad, as nearly as possible. 

__. Season the slices, and spread thinly over them a 

forcemeat of bread-crumbs, and a little shred suet 

^ or marrow. Take the gravy left from the joint, 

or stew a gravy from the bones ; thicken with butter, 

rolled in flour, and season it with an anchovy, or a little 

catchup. 

21 1^^ Or, the bits of meat, when not large enough to bo 
sliced, as above, may be minced, seasoned, and rolled, in a 
paste of Mashed Potatoes and Flour, Close the rolls, fry 
them in dripping, and brown before the fire. 

A wrr and a fool in company, are like a crab and an oyster: the one watches 
till the other opens his mouUi^ and then mokes small work of him. 

An excellent method of re-dressing Cold Roast Beef 

Mutton, or Lamb. 

Cut the meat into small thin slices, season well with 

pepper and salt, and dip each lightly in bread-crumbs, 

. moistened io gravy or melted butter ; lay them on 

a dish, and cover them with a thin layer of chopped 

pickles, and moisten with pickle-vinegar, and the 



8 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

gravy from the cold meat; wann in a Dutch oven, and 
garnish with fried sippets, or potato-balls. 

I^EBE can be no objection to Ifroils in the boose, so that they emanate only from 
the kitchen. 

To re-dress Cold Stewed Rump of Beef. 

Cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick ; trim them 
-,. , neatly ; soak them till heated in a little broth ; 
or glaze them, after heating through in an oven, 
and serve with tomato sauce, or sauce piquant. 

An old lady was in the habit of teaching the duty of charity to her grandchildren, in 
this manner : — " My dears, when I and your father and mother have finished our meals, 
when you have eaten all you conveniently can, and when you have fed the three cats 
and the parrot, — ^then, my dear children, remember the poor.** 

Another Method of Dressing Cold Sirloin of Beef 

Cut the under-done parts of the meat in long narrow 

slices, about an inch thick, leaving, if possible, a little fat 

__. , attached to each , piece. Season with salt and 

mixed spices, dredge with flour, and heat them in 

gravy from the joint; season to liking with 

anchovy, eschalot, or shredded onion, and a little vinegar. 

25 1^° The slices may be Broiled, and served with the 

hot sauce, with Fi-ied or Mashed Potatoes, 

The great end of prudence is to give cheerfulness to those hours which splendour 
cannot gild, and excitement cannot exhilarate; those soft intervals of unblended 
amusement, in which a man shrinks to liis natural dimensions, and throws aside the 
ornaments or disguises which he feels in privacy to be useless incumbrances, and to 
lose effect when they become familiar. 

A Fricassee from Fragments of Cold Beef 

Cut the meat into thin slices, and free them from gristle 

and fat. Take some stock, and thicken it with butter 

. rolled in flour; and, for seasoning, use parsley, 

young onions, pepper, and salt ; strain the sauce, 

*^ and warm the meat in it, standing by the side 

of the fire. 

27 g^ If something a little better is required, add a 
glass of Fort Wine, the yolk of an Egg, beaten, and the 



SECONDABY COOKERY. 9 

juico of a Lemon. Stir the Fricassee^ and do not allow it 
to boil. 

A PERSON asking Diogenes wliat was the best dinner-hour, he answered, " Any hour." 
•* Nay," said the man, " any hour will not suit rich and poor too." " But it will, though," 
retorted the philosopher; "a rich man can dine any hour that he Uka; but a poor 
man, any hour that he can.'* 

Cold Beef ^ Mutton^ Vealy Game^ or Poultri/ re-cooked 

IS Egg Croquettes. 

Take a pound or more of cold meat, and mince it very 
fine ; then put it into a mortar, with a small Spanish onion, 

_. about a table-spoonful of parsley chopped fine, add 
an ounce of good butter, with salt and pepper, 
and work all well together. Boil six fresh eggs 
foi* twelve minutes, dress them in cold water, and take off 
the shells and skins; take out the meat from the mortar, 
moisten it with well-beaten white of egg, and cover the 
eggs with the meat so prepared, about half an inch thick. 
Roll them in flour, or fine bread-crumbs; fry them in 
boiling oil ; drain them well ; make a gravy from the bones 
of the cold meat, then stew it, and flavour to liking. Cut 
the croquettes lengthways with a sharp knife ; set them 
in the dish, with the thick sauce in the middle. 

29 %^ This gives a little trouble ; but, as an occasional 
side-dish, it will be found very pleasing both to the eye 
and the taste. 

A GOOD housewife should not be a person of one idea, but should be &mi1iar with 
the flower garden as well as the flour barrel ; and though her lesson should be to lessen 
expense, the odour of a fine rose should not be less valued than the order of her house- 
hold. She will prefer a yard of shrubbery to a yard of satin. If her husband is a 
skilful sower of grain, she is equally skilftd as a sewer of garments. He keeps his 
hoes bright by use ; she keeps the hose of the family in order. 

A very nice Dish of Minced Muttony and Mashed 

Potatoes, 

Mince the Mutton finely, and stew it in a little gravy, 

. to which add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom or 

walnut catchup, and a little butter. Stew till hot ; 

^" thicken with a little fiour, and serve on a dish 

surrounded by mashed potatoes. 



10 THK FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

31 1^^ An inexpensive Gravy for all Stews, Hashes^ 
Minces, Haricots, &c., may be made of a large onion, some 
whole pepper, a piece of bread highly toasted, but not 
burned, and a dessert-spoonful of walnut catchup, boiled 
two hours in a pint of water. 

The other day, a facetious indivldaal who had cause for suspicion, sent a sheep's 
head antl potatoes to a neighbouring bakery. "When Doughy took home the savoury 
dish at dinner-time, he expressed some surprise tliat the eyes should have been left in 
the iiead. " My dear fellow," said the eccentric, with a knowing whik, " t/iey were 
U-ft there to see that no one stole the potatoes." 

A nice Hash of Mutton y with the addition of Herbs. 

Melt a piece of butter with some finely chopped es- 
chalot, parsley, and half a pint or less of mushrooms ; boil 
^. . them gently in the butter ; then, by degrees, mix 
in a large spoonful of flour, half a pint of broth, 
and stew till the ingredients are well combined. 
Let it become a little cool, and then put some minced 
under-done Mutton into it, without boiling. 

Theodore Hook once dined with Mr. Ilatchet. " Ah, my dear fellow," said his host, 
deprecatingly, " I am sorry to say you will not get to-day such a dinner as our friend 
Tom Moore gave us." " Certainly not," replied Hook, " from a Hatchet one can expect 
nothing but a chop.'* 

An Economical Family Dinner of Mutton^ warmed with 

Sauce and Vegetables. 

Cut the meat into chops, and trim off the fat, &c. Take 
some well-seasoned stock ; if you have none, prepare some 

_-. previously by stewing the bones, fat, gristle, &c., 

not only of the mutton, but of any other meats. 

'^^^ Simmer the meat in the stock, and add, already 

boiled, half a dozen or more button onions, some sliced 

carrot, or carrot cut in squares, and a turnip cut into 

diamonds. 

34 [^p* Lamh may be re-dressed in all the ways recom- 
mended for Mutton, 

A GENTLEMAN', taking an apartment, said to the landlady, ** I assure you, madam, I 
never left a lodging but my landlady shed tears." She answered, " I hope it was not, 
sir, because you went away without paying/* 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 11 

Very Nice Sausages y or Balls^from Cold Mutton. 

Take, say a pound, of the most under-done part of a 

boiled leg of Mutton ; chop it very fine, and season with 

__. . pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg ; add six ounces 

of beef suet, some pounded sweet herbs, a quarter 

OK * 

of a pound of grated bread, and the yolks and 
whites of two eggs well beaten, and a clove of garlic or 
•eschalot. Mix well, and press down into a pot. Use as 
sausages; or roll into balls, and fry a nice brown. 

A FEiCALE servant, sveeping out a bachelor's room, found a four-penny piece on the 
carpet, which she carried to the owner. " You may keep it for your honesty," said he, 
smiling, and chucking her under the chin. A short time after, he missed his gold 
pencil-case, and inquired of the girl if she had seen it. " Tes, sir," was the reply. 
** And what did you do with it?'* ** Kept it for my honettp, sir I" 

Mutton Hashed in a homely hut savoury way. 

Take three pints of stock gravy, a large onion cut into 

rings, some pepper and salt ; let them boil until the onion 

__. , is done ; then add a little thickening ; or, if there 

should be any cold melted butter left from the 

day before, it will do as well ; put in your meat, 

and let it simmer for ten minutes. Toast a round of bread, 

cut it into sippets, and place them round the dish ; then 

j)our the hash into the dish, and serve with hot potatoes. 

A LADT meeting a girl who had lately left her service, inquired, " Well, Lucy, where 
do you live now ? '* *' Please, ma'am, / don't live noWt Vm married^^* replied the girl. 

Mutton Hashed in the style of Venison, 

Take three pints of stock gravy, put it into a saucepan, 

and let them boil; then add a gill of port wine, some 

^, cayenne pepper and salt, some flour to thicken, 

and a little bit of butter ; cut the Mutton into 

' slices and put it in, and let it simmer for four 

or five minutes ; do not let it boil, or the meat will become 

hard ; make a nic'e puff paste, roll it out, then cut into 

diamonds and fry them in boiling fat ; then dish the hash, 

placing the sippets of puff paste as a border round the 

dish. Serve with currant jelly. 



12 THE PAIfflLY SAVE-ALL : 

38 1@r To improve ffasJieSy a well-seasoned Orav?/ may 
be prepared by stewing Bones, Gristles, and Trimmings, 
well seasoned with pepper, salt, and onions. 

" Sball I cnt this loin of mntton saddlewise ? *' said a gentleman. " No," said one 
of bis guests, '*cat it bridUwUet for tlicn I may chance to get a Mt in my mouth." 

^' Bubble and Squeak^^ or a nice way of serving up ^Cold 
Beefy Porky or Muttony with seasoned Cabbage. 

Bubble and Squeak is usually made with slices of cold 
boiled salted beef fried in butter ; but any under-done Beef 

— . . or Mutton will do. Cut the meat into slices ; 
pepper, salt, and fry them lightly. When done, 
lay them on a hot dish or drainer, and while the 
butter or fat is draining from the beef, take a cabbage, 
already boiled in two waters, or left cold from yesterday ; 
chop it small, put it into the pan, and add the fat that mjiy 
have drained from the meat, with a little more, if required. 
Season with pepper and salt, and keep stirring, that it 
may be equally warmed and seasoned. When taken from 
the fire, sprinkle over 1;he cabbage a little vinegar, just 
enough to give it a slightly acid taste. In dishing up, 
lay the cabbage in the middle of the dish, and the slices 
of meat around it. For sauce, if desired, anything adapted 
for steaks, chops, or cutlets. 

A FRIEND, giving a dinner-party the other day, said to his guests, after they had 
flnished the meal, " It's not every day that we kill a pig ; so we'll have a bottle of 
champagne ! " " What connection is there between a pig and champagne ? " " The ono 
bubbles, and the other squeaks!" 

Cold Breast of Mutton or Vealy Grilled. 

Pare and trim the joint; egg and crumb it, and broil, 

or warm it in a Dutch oven. Serve Veal with White Sauce, 

^. . made thus : — Put equal parts of broth and milk 

.U|«|f> 

into a stew-pan, with an onion and a blade of 

^® mace ; set it on the fire to boil ten minutes. Rub 

together on a plate an ounce each of flour and butter ; put 

it into a stew-pan, stir well till it boils ; then stand it near 

the fire on the stove, stirring it every now and then till it 



SECONDARY COOKERr. 13 

* 

becomes quite smooth ; then strain it through a sieve into a 
basin ; put it back into the stew-pah ; season it with salt 
and the juice of a small lemon ; beat up the yolks of two 
eggs, with about three table-spoonfuls of milk ; strain it 
through a sieve into your sauce ; stir it well, and keep it 
near the fire, but do not let it boil. Serve Mutton with 
Caper Sauce, or with Wow-Woio Sauce, as follows : — Chop 
some parsley-leaves very fine, quarter two or three pickled 
cucumbers or walnuts, and divide them into small squares. 
Put into a saucepan a bit of butter the size of an egg ; 
-when melted, stir to it a table-spoonful of vinegar, the same 
quantity of mushroom catchup, and a tea^spoonful of made 
mustard ; let it simmer together till as thick as you desh'e, 
and then put in the pai'sley and pickles to warm. 

41 1^ If greater piquancy is required in the sauce, add 
any other pickles or condiments to taste. 

FooTE, dining at the house of ilrs. Thralc, found nothin}? to his liking, and sat in 
expectation of something better. A neck of mutton being the last thing, he refused 
it, as he had the other dishes. As the servant was taking it away, however, under« 
standing that there was nothing more. Foots called out to him, '' Hollo ! John, bring 
that back again. I find it*s neck or nothing!" 

A very nice Pic of Cold Boiled Veal and Haniy 

with Liver, 

Take one pound of cold boiled Liver, chop and pound 
it in a mortal-, and one pound of Sausage Meat. Take also 
-J. , about a pound of cold Veal, chop and pound it; add 
pepper and salt, a little parsley minced, and a little 
of the green pai'ts of young onions, chopped fine ; 
mix these in a mortar, and set aside until wanted ; take 
about one pound of cooked Ham, fat and lean, which also 
chop and pound in a mortar, and set aside. Prepare a pie- 
dish by putting a crust all round the bottom ; place in the 
dish a thin layer of the sausage meat, with slices of truffles 
stuck here and there ; now a layer of the pounded ham ; 
then truffles again ; then veal and more truffles ; then liver ; 
and proceed in this way till the dish is full. Cover with a 
light flaky crust, and bake ; add a little gravy. 



14 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

43 ^* Good either hot or cold ; it may be made as a 
Baised Pie ; and will be found a great improvement upon 
the ordinary Veal and Ham pie. 

" Jem," said a little boy, who was boastinj^ of his father*8 new house, " we have g^t 

such a fbie portico, and mahogany doors, and plate glass windows, and on the top is a 

cupola, and it's going to have something else." ''What is it?" asked his interested 

companion. " Why, I heard father tell mother this morning that we are going to 

have a mortgage npon it." 
t 

A nice Ragout of Cold Veal. 

Cut the cold meat into small found cutlets, trimming off 

the rough parts, bones, &c. With the bones and trimmings,. 

__. an onion, a turnip, and carrot, make a little good 

gravy. Melt some fresh butter in a frying-pan, 

and flour and brown the slices of Veal of a light 

brown ; take them up, strain the gravy into the pan, and 

thicken the sauce to a proper consistence with butter rolled 

in flour. When smooth and well mixed, put in the cutlets, 

and let them simmer very slowly. Season to liking with 

pepper, mace, catchup, and anchovy, or mushroom powder. 

Skim the sauce, and pour it hot over the cutlets. 

Said Tom, " Since I have been abroad, I have eaten so much veal that I am ashamed 
to look a calf in the face I " *' I s'pose, sir, then," said a wag, ** you contrive to ihave 
loUhout a glass I" 

A nice Haricot from Cold Neck of Veal. 

Saw or break the bones off short. Have ready a pint of 
green peas, boiled, a cucumber pared and cut into thin 

__. , slices, and two cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters ; 
stew these in a pint of gravy until they are tender ; 

^ then put them to the peas and the Veal, and stew 
gently for a few minutes. Add a little more gravy if 
necessary. Serve hot, with forcemeat balls round the dish. 

46 1^ The proportion of vegetables must, of course, 
always be determined by the quantity of meat. For 
instance : a large cucumber may be too large ; two large 
cabbage-lettuces may be too great a quantity. 

When you have lost money in the streets, every one is ready to help you to look 
for it ; but when you have lost your charatierf every one leaves you to recover it 
as you can. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 15 

Cold Veal and Fowl Mincedy and served on Sippets. 

Mince the white part of a cold Fowl, either roasted or 

boiled ; put it, together with some thin slices of Veal, into a 

_-. . saucepan, also some white stock, a squeeze of 

lemon, a few drops of eschalot vinegar, and a little 

tugar ; simmer for a short time, and serve upon 

bread sippets, laying the slices of veal upon the mince. 

"Has that cookery-book any pictttresf" said Miss M. C. to a bookseller. "No» 
madam, none," was the answer. " Why ! " exclaimed the witty and beautiful lady, 
** what is the use of telling us how to make a good dinner, if they give us no plates t" 

Another very nice way of Dressing Cold Veal. 

Mince the fat and lean of cold roast Veal together ; 

season it well with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, white 

__.■ . pepper, and salt ; moisten with a little rich white 

stock, and a beaten egg ; butter a pudding shape ; 

put in the mince, and press it firmly ; cover it 
closely, and set it into a pan of boiling water ; let it boil 
an hour. Serve it with a white gravy thickened ; or, when 
turned out of the shape, rub it over the top with the beaten 
yolk of an egg ; sift bread crumbs thickly over, and brown 
it in a Dutch oven ; baste it with a little melted butter. 
Garnish with fried parsley, or sliced lemon. 

E vE R TT Hix o useful or necessary is cheapest ; walking is the most wholesome exercise, 
water the best drink, and plain food the most nourishing and healthy diet — even in 
knowledge, Uie most useful is the most easily acquired. 

Minced Veal with Gravy from the Bones. 

TPake the bones and trimmings of the Veal, and stew 

them down to a nice gravy. If you have no bones or 

__. . trimmings, a few spoonsful of veal or mutton 

broth, or pot liquor, will do; add a little mace, 

white pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, and a table- 

spoon^l of mushroom catchup. Take out some of the 

gravy when nearly done, and letting it get cool, thicken it 

with flour and a little butter, and boil it up with the rest 

of the gravy. Cut the meat into small dice, and put it 



16 ' THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

into the stew-pan with the gravy. Serve it up quickly 
after the meat has been put in. Garnish with bread sippets. 
A little lemon-juice added to the gravy improves its flavour. 

50 1^ This makes a very nice dish, put into scallop 
shells, covered with Bread Crumbs, sprinkled with bits of 
butter, and browned in a Dutch oven, or a cheese toaster. 

51 1^ Another nice dish may be made by mincing 
Steived Mushrooms with the veal, thickening the liquor, 
putting a little cream to it, and serving garnished with 
toasted sippets. 

Sosra men devote themselves so exclusively to their business as almost entirely to 
neglect their domestic and social relations. A gentleman of this class having failed, 
was. asked what he intended to do. *' I am going home io get acquainted vnth my 
ici/B and children" said he. 

A nice Hash of Cold Veal, 

Having cut the meat into thin slices, and trimmed them, 

wann it in gravy drawn from the bones and trimmings, to 

--. which add any left from the joint. Thicken with 

a little butter rolled in flour, and season with mace. 

minced lemon-peel, a spoonful of lemon pickle, or 

the juice of a lemon. Serve with bread sippets and slices 

of lemon. 

"Papa, what is that picture over the mantcl-piecc?" llic vain father answered, 
"Why, that's papa's arms, my darling!" " Then why don't you have your leg* there 
toot" was the reply. 

A capital Hash of Cold Calfs Head, or other parts 

of VeaL 
Gather all the pieces of flesh from the bones, cutting 
the palate, &c., into smaller pieces than the other parts of 
_-. the meat. Take about three pints of the liquor 
in which the head was boiled; break the bones, 
and stew them with a small bunch of savoury herbs, 
a carrot, an onion carefully fried in slices, a dozen corns of 
pepper, and either a slice or two of lean ham or smoked 
beef. Simmer until the liquid is reduced nearly one-half 
strain, and skim off the fat, thicken with a little butter 
rolled in flour, and add a little spice, mushroom catchup. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 17 

or Harvey's sauce, and a small quantity of chili vinegar. 
Heat the meat slowly in the sauce. 

54 i^- Other parts of Veal, especially the Neck, Breast, 
Knuckle, and Feet, may be dressed or warmed in the 
same way. 

A QvxroMJkSt whose honse was under repair, went one day to see how the Job was 
getting on, and observing a quantity of nails lying about, said to a carpenter, '* Why 
don't you take care of these nails, they'll certainly be lost?" *'No/' replied Master 
Chopstick, '' youll find them aU in tht HU." 

jI Fricassee of Cold Veal. 

Take some slices of cooked Veal, and put them into a 
stew-pan with water, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a blade 

--. of mace, and let it stew till tender; then take out 
the herbs, add a little flour and butter boiled 
^ together, to thicken it a little, then add half a pint 
of milk, and the yolk of an Qgg beat very fine; add some 
pickled mushrooms, but some fresh mushrooms should be 
put in first, if they are to be had; keep stirring till it boils, 
and then add the juice of a lemon; stir well to keep it 
from curdling; then sei*ve it in a dish, garnished with 
lemon. 

" There were three hours and a half lost by you this morning," uid a lady to a 
rini^h servant. " I was only half an hour late, ma'am," she replied. " True," 
rejoined her mistress, " but there was a /amUy of seven waiting for y<m." 

Cold Veal dressed with White Sauce, 

Boil milk with a thickening of flour and butter; put 

into it thin slices of cold Veal, and simmer in the gravy 

__. till it is made hot, without boiling. When nearly 

done, beat up the yolk of an Qgg, with a little 

anchovy and White Sauce ; pour it gently with the 

rest, stirring it aU the time; simmer the whole together, 

and serve it with sippets of bread, and curled slices of 

bacon, laid alternately. 

It is said to liave been satisfoctorily demonstrated, that every time a wife scolds her 
husband she adds a wrinkle to lierface! It is thought the announcement of this &ct 
will have a most satisfactory eflfect, especially as it is understood that evcrj' time a 
wi& smiles on her husband it will remove one 0/ the old wrinkles. 



18 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

To re^cook Roasted Veal. 

Take a piece of Veal that has been roasted (but not 
over-done), cut it into thin slices; take from it the skin and 

--. gristle; melt some butter, in which put some 
chopped onions; fry the onions a little, then shake 
some flour over them; shake the pan round, and 
put in some veal stock gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
some spice; then put in the veal, with the yolk of two eggs, 
beat up with milk, some grated nutmeg, parsley shred 
small, lemon-peel grated, and a little juice ; stir it one 
way until thick and smooth, and put it into the dish. 
This converts an insipid cold meat into a very relishable 
entrde. 

58 1^ Remember that meats when re-dressed, having 
lost some of their original flavour, require more seasoning 
than at the flrst. 

An American editor says he has heard of an economical man, who always takes his 
dinner in front of a muTor, to double tlic dishes. The writer says he doesn't know 
what's philosophy, if this isn't. We presume the real reason is that the man finds it 
a cheap way of enjoying his gUus vHth hit meals, 

A very nice dish of Calfs Chitterlings, 

Clean some of the largest Chitterlings, cut into lengths 

proper for puddings ; tie one of the ends close ; take some 

__. Bacon, and cut it like dice, a Calfs Udder, and the 

fat that comes off" the chitterlings ; put them into a 

stew-pan, with a bay-leaf, salt, and pepper, an 

eschalot cut small, some mace, and pepper, with half a pint 

or more of milk, and let it just simmer ; then take off the 

pan, and thicken with four or five yolks of eggs, and some 

crumbs of bread ; fill the chitterlings with this mixture, 

which must bo kept warm ; make the links like hog's 

puddings. Before they are sent to table, they must be 

boiled over a moderate fire ; let them cool in their own 

liquor. Very nice and light eating in the summer time. 

BxTTEB to go to bed supperless^ than to rise in debt. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 19 

^ nice Luncheon or Supper Cake from Cold Veal, 

Take as much cold roasted lean Veal as will fill a small 

cake mould, and pound it in a mortar, together with a slice 

_^. , of Ham or Bacon, a piece of the crumb of bread 

soaked in cold n;ilk, two eggs well beaten, a small bit 

of butter, the same of eschalot, or onion ; season 

-with pepper and salt, and mix all well together ; butter the 

mould ; fill it in, and bake in an oven for about an hour ; 

turn it out when cold, and cut into slices. 

61 1^^ To be eaten cold. Garnish with pickled eggs 
and parsley. 

Bx not affronted at a Jest: if one throw salt at thcc, thou wilt take no harm, 
mnieu thou hast sore places. 

A very nice dish of Cold Lamb and Cucumbers, 

or Spinach. 
Fry slices or chops of cold Lainh in butter till they are 
slightly browned. Serve them on a puree of cucumbers, 
— .. or on a dish of spinach ; or dip the sKces in bread- 
crumbs, chopped parsley, and yolk of egg. Some 
grated lemon, and a little nutmeg may be added. 
Fry them, and pour a little good gravy over them when 
served. 

63 I^P* The various methods of re-dressing Mutton are 
applicable genera.lly to Lamb. 

A LADT who made pretensions to refined feelings went to her butcher to remonstrate 
with him on his cruel practices. " How," said she, " can you be so barbarous as to put 
innocent little lambs to death?" "Why not? madam," said the buteher; "you 
vrouldn't eat 'cm ohve, would you?" 

The only " Cold Shoulder " which can be shown 
to a Friend without Offence. 

A SHOULDER of Lamb, or a material part of one, being 

left cold, proceed in the followiug manner : — Score the 

__. shoulder in squares, rub it with the yolk of an egg, 

pepper and salt it ; and rub with bread crumbs and 

dried parsley, or sweet herbs. Broil it over a clear 

fire ; or put it in a Dutch oven, until nicely browned. 



20 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

Send it to table with Grill Sauce, made of half a pint of 
gravy, to which has been added an ounce of fresh butter 
rubbed into a table-spoonful of flour, the same of mushroom 
or walnut catchup, two tea-spoonsful of lemon-juice, one of 
black pepper, a quarter of a rind of lemon, grated very fine, 
a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, a little eschalot wino 
and chili vinegar, or a few grains of cayenne. Simmer 
together for a few minutes, pour a little of the sauce over ' 
the grill, and send up the rest in a tureen. 

65 f^* The Sauce may be simplified at discretion, if the 
above ingi^edients are not all at hand. 

66 1^^ A cold shoulder of Mutton, having only a little 
meat upon the blade bone, may be dressed in the same way. 
Serve with Caper Sauce poured over it, or Melted Butter^ in 

' which should be mixed some Mushroom Catchup, Lemoriy 
PichUy and Harvey Sauce, say a table-spoonful each. 

SoMEBODT says, " A M'ife should be like roasted lamb— tender, and nicely dressed.* 
An impertinent fellow adds, and ^'wiUumt sauce." 

A nice Ragout from Cold Lamh, 

Separate the Larrib from the bones, and cut into 
convenient pieces ; lard with Bacon fried of a light brown ; 

__. and stew very lightly in mutton gravy, sufiicient to 
cover it ; season with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, 
and spice. Strain off the gravy, keeping the meat 
hot, and add to it some oysters browned in a frying-pan, and 
freed from the fat in which they were fried ; half a glass of 
port wine ; a few mushrooms, and a bit of butter, rolled in 
flour ; the juice of half a lemon ; boil ' together for a few 
minutes in the gravy, and pour the sauce over the lamb. 

68 ^^ Mutton may be served in the same way. 

Why is a cricket on the hearth like a soldier in the Crimea ? Because he often 
adyances under a brisk fire. 

Cutlets of Cold Lamb or Mutton. 
Take the cutlets from the remains of a roast loin or neck. 



SECONDABY COOKERY. 21 

or of an under-done stewed or boiled joint ; dip them into 
TT- f ^SS ^^^ well-seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil or 
fry them- over a quick fire, that they may be 
browned and heated through, without beiog over- 
done. When the cutlets are broiled, they should be dipped 
into or sprinkled with butter just dissolved. A few 
additional crumbs should be made to adhere to them after 
they are moistened with this. 

70 ^^ This is a very good method of serving a half- 
roasted Loin or Neclc. 

A Gentleman at an eatlng-honsc asked the person next to him if he would please to 
pass the mustard ? '* Sir," said the man, " do you mistake me for a waiter ? " " Oh, no, 
sir," was the reply, "I mistook you for a gentleman." 

j£ capital Dishy with which may he used up Cold or 
other Vegetables y of various kinds.. 

Cut some rather fat Ham or Bacon into slices, and fry 

to a nice brown ; lay the slices aside to get warm ; then 

__. mix equal quantities, or any proportions that you 

may happen to have, of potatoes and cabbage, 

cauliflower, or brocoli, and fry the mixture in the 

fat from the meat. The newly -blown brocoli or cauliflower 

-will answer quite as well as the ripe. Well season with 

pepper. 

FoRMEnLT women were prohibited fi-om marryinj; till they had spun a ropular set of 
■bed furniture, and, till their marnages, were consequently called SpimUrs^ which 
term continues to this day in all legal proceedings. 

To re-dress Cold Roast Pig, 

Cakve the remains into neat pieces, and warm them in a 

__. sauce made of stock and sweet milk, the yolk of an 

egg beaten, and stirred gradually into it. Season 

with peppercorns, onions, a few sprigs of parsley and 

lemon-thyme, and a bit of lemon-peel. Strain the sauce, 

and warm the meat in it, 

A LITTLE boy, nine or ten years of age, was called as a witness at a late trial at 
Cambridge. After the oath was administered, the chief justice, with a view of ascer- 
taining whether the boy was sensible of the nature and importance of an oath, 
addressed him : — ^" Little boy, do you know what you have been doing?" " Yes, sir," 
the hoy replied, " I have been keeping pigs for Mr. Baneard." 



22 THE FAWILY SAVE-ALL : 

Another method of re-dressing Cold Sucking Pig, 

When the shoulders are left entire, remove from them 

the skin, turn tliem, dip them into clarified butter, or best 

__. salad oil ; then in bread-crumbs, highly seasoned 

with cayenne and salt. Broil them over a clear 

73 

fire, and send them to table while hot. Servo 

with tomato sauce. 

74 l^p* Curried Crumbs, and a Curry Sauce, will give 
an excellent variety ; and savoury herbs, with two or three 
eschalots chopped, and mixed with the bread-crumbs, and 
brown eschalot sauce to accompany the broil, will be liked 
by many. 

" No MAN," says Mrs. Partington, " was better calculated to judge of pork than my 
poor husband ; he knew what good hogs were, for he had been brouglu up with *em 
from his childhood.^' 

A SERVANT girl received the following written character from a person who meant 
to recommend her: — " This is to certify that Isabel Wier served with us During 
the last half-year, and we found her in every respect Creditable, and free /rotn 
nothing that vas in any tcay terong." 

A very nice Entree from Cold Sucking Pig. 

Remove the flesh from the bones, and also the skin ; 
cut into convenient pieces. Melt a bit of butter, the size of 
__. an egg, and throw in six or eight button mush- 
rooms, cleaned and sliced; shake them over the 

75 

fire for three or four minutes ; then stir to them a 

dessert-spoonful of flour, and continue to shake or toss them 

gently; but do not allow them to burn. Add a small bunch 

of parsley, a bay-leaf, a middling-sized blade of mace, some 

salt, a small quantity of cayenne or white pepper, half a 

pint of white stock, and from two to three glasses of light 

white wine. Let these boil gently until reduced nearly 

one-third; take out the parsley and mace, lay in the meat, 

and bring it slowly to the point of simmering; stir to it the 

beaten yolks of three fresh eggs, and the strained juice of 

half a lemon. Serve hot. 

Whenever our neighbour's house is on fire, it cannot be amiss for the engines to 
play a little on our own. Better to be despised for too anxious apprehension, tlian 
ruined by too confident security. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 23 

Pork Cutlets re-dressed^ with Sauce. 

Pork Cutlets may be re-dressed by broiling ; they may 

-_. . be cut from the cold neck or loin; the skin should 

be left on and scored. Serve them with pepper and 

salt, and broil over a clear fire, taking care that 

they do not become scorched. 

77 m^ Serve them with Sage and Onion Sauce, and 
gravy, eschalot, plain onions, or fine herbs ; or with 
gherkin, tomato, or poor man's sauce. 

Medical writers all agree that gluttony conducts more people to the grave than 
dmnkcnness. The old adage is true, that " many people dig their graves tnih their 
tetthr 

To make a nice Dish of Cold under-done Porky either 

Roasted or Boiled, 

Cut the Pork into slices, and fry lightly; make apple 
sauce, and place it in the centre of a dish, laying the slices 

-_. , of pork around it. Cold boiled pork may be made 
into Rissoles, being minced very fine, like sausage- 
meat, and seasoned to liking. Either of these 
forms an excellent side or corner dish. 

Careful as the cook may be to send Pork to table well 
done, she is apt to be misled by appearances; and, as 
under-done pork is absolutely uneatable, it is very desirable 
to know how to dispose of it to advantage. One criterion 
-which the cook will do well to observe, is this, — if the 
gravy latest from the meat is of a red colour, the joint is still 
under-done, 

A TouKO gentleman, who was somewhat elaborately dressed, was recently placed in a 
witness-box, to give evidence. At the conclusion of the cross-questioning, as he was 
about to leave, Uie counsel said, " I believe, sir, you are a stock-broker? " " I ham^^* 
was the response. ** Very well, su: ; then all I can say, is, you are a very nicely 
dressed ham/" 

jExcellent Sausages from Cold Pork, to he eaten Cold. 

Season fat and lean Pork with salt, black pepper, and 

-,. . allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat. 

Mince very fine, and fill the skins ; tie up the 

ends, and hang the sausages to smoke, as hams 



24 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

are done, but first wrap them in a fold or two of old 
muslin. 

The best cure for low spirits is business— one-half of the melancholy that yon run 
against is caused by indolence and feather beds. The best fun in the world is activity. 

A nice Hdsh^ or Curry^ from Cold Pork or other Cold 

Meat 

Cut the meat into small pieces, having a fair proportion 

of lean and fat. Put into a stew-pan, or a frying-pan, 

__. two ounces of butter or dripping ; when hot, add 

the meat, stir occasionally, and season with salt, 

spice, and pepper. When the meat is hot, pat 

in a tea-spoonful of flour, water sufficient to make a good 

gravy ; let it simmer ; and add eschalot, chives, or onions 

to liking. 

81 S^ Beef, Mutton, Veal, and Lamh may be done in 
the same way. For veal, lamb, or pork, the sauce may 
be kept white, and milk may be used. 

82 |^§" A good Curry may be made in this way, by 
the addition of Curry Powder, 

A FASTIDIOUS taste is like a squeamish appetite ; the one has its origin in some 
disease of the mind, as the other has in some ailment of the stomach. 

A nice Hash from Cold Venison, 

Make a gravy by stewing the bones and trimmings ; 
season with a few peppercorns and some salt ; strain, and 

__. thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour ; add 

a glass of port wine, and a table-spoonful of mush- 

room catchup, and one of currant jelly. When 

hot, put in the Venison, cut into thin slices. Heat it by 

simmering slowly, and serve with toasted sippets. 

84 1^^ Should the meat be lean, add a little firm 
Mutton fat to the gravy, and let it stew before putting 
in the meat. 

At a venison feast Sir Joshua Re3n3olds addressed his conversation to one of the 
company who sat near him, but, to his j^reat surprise, could not get a single word in 
answer ; until, at length, his silent neighbour turned to him and said, " Sir Joshna, 
whenever you are at a venison feast, I advise you not to speak during dinner-time. 
Through that last question of yours, I have unfortunately stcaUowed a piece of fine /at, 
without tatting the flavour I'* 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 25 

A nice Stew from Cold Venison. 

Make a gravj from the fragments and bones, and add 
thereto, if convenient, a little strong unseasoned mutton 

^ stock, and a bundle of fine herbs. Let this simmer ; 
then skim, and add browned butter, thickened 
with flour, some catchup, mixed spices, a little 
elaret, if approved, and a spoonful of currant jelly. Take 
out the herbs, and squeeze in a little lemon ; give a boil, 
and then while simmering add the pieces of Venison, thinly 
sliced. Garnish with cut pickles ; or with slices of lemon, 
and fried sippets. 

Old Mr& Darnley is a pattern of household economy. Slie says she has made a 
pair of socks last fifteen years, by merely knitting new feet to them every wuUer^ 
<ad new Ugt every other vointer. 

A nice Pasty from cold Venison. 

Cut the Venison into small squares, and rub them over 

with a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, pepper, 

--. , and salt ; line the sides and edges of a dish with 

thin puff paste, lay in the meat, and add half a 

pint of rich gravy, made with the trimmings of 

the venison ; add a glass of port wine, and the juice of 

half a lemon, or a teaspoonful of vinegar ; cover the dish 

with a thin paste, and bake. 

87 1^^ Pour a little more gravy into the pasty when 
it comes from the oven. Good, either hot or cold. 

88 It^ Pieces of cold Venison are also suitable for 
** deviling, ^^ 

An old gentleman being asked what he liked for dinner, replied : " A keen appetite, 
good company; something to eat; and a clean napkin." 

An Economical and Nice Dishy toith Apples boiled. 

Cut thin slices of meat from cold spare-rib of Pork^ 

in pieces of about four inches long and two wide ; then 

__. . mix in a plate some pepper, salt, and powdered 

sage ; sprinkle a little of this mixture upon each 

piece of meat ; then make it into a roll about 



26 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

the size of the thumb 5 put the rolls on one side for a 
moment. Then get a pie-dish ; lay on the bottom some 
slices of potatoes about half an inch thick ; over these, 
some slices of onions cut thin ; over the onions some slices 
of Apple, about the same thickness as the potato. If the 
pie-dish is deep, another layer of each will be required ; 
then place over these layers the meat rolled up ; cover it 
with a nice pudding paste ; tie it in a cloth, and boil it 
in a large kettle. A pudding in a twelve-inch dish will 
require one hour's boiling. This is much more economical 
than baking or roasting the spare-rib ; the bones can be 
put into the stock-pot, or be stewed down for gravy. 

90 ^^ This may be made into a standing pie, but is 
not so good in that way. Slices of fat Cold Pork may 
be used. 

Even a pig upon a spit lins one consolation: tilings are sure to take a turn. 

I^elishahle Meat CaheSy from Scraps of Cold Meat, 

Game^ or Poultry, 

Take any cold Game, Poultry, or Meat, and to give it 
a little richness, add a little fat bacon or ham, and an 
__. anchovy ; mince it fine ; season with pepper and 
salt to liking ; mix thoroughly, and make into 
^^ small cakes, with bread crumbs, yolks of boiled 
eggs, onions, sweet herbs, curry powder, or any of the force- 
meats. Fry the cakes a light brown, and serve them with 
good gravy ; or put the mixture into a mould, and boil 
or bake it. A nice relish for suppers. 

" It seems," said one dandy to another at a party, " ttiat they give no snpper to- 
night." To which the other coolly replied, " Then I ttop my expemes" and cooUy 
took off his new gloves I 

Cold Meat of any kind, Game or Poultry, Fish or 

Fruits, re-dressed as Fritters. 

Ascertain the quantity of cold meat you have, and then 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 27 

pot an eqaal weight of bread crumbs to soak in cold water ; 
•p , let there be a little fat with the meat, and chop 
it into small dice. Squeeze the water from the 
bread ; put in the pan two ounces of butter, lard, 
or dripping, and two table-spoonsful of sliced onions ; fry- 
two minutes, then add the bread, stir with a wooden spoon 
until rather dry ; then add the meat ; season with salt and 
pepper to taste, and a little nutmeg, if approved ; stir till 
quite hot ; then add two eggs, one at a time ; mix quickly, 
and pour on a dish to cool. KoU into the shape of small 
eggs, or as pancakes, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry. 
Serve plain, or with any appropriate sauce. 

93 l^y The above is the process for Cold Meats ; for 
Fishy or Fruits^ the seasoning must be appropriate, as a 
little anchovy, Reading sauce, cayenne pepper, &c., for 
the former ; and sugar, lemon-peel, cloves, &c., for the 
latter. In the above manner, any kind of scraps may be 
turned to good account. 

"V^iAT wind does a hungry sailor like best?— One that blows /ou/, afterwards 
tkopBt and then comes with little puffs. 



<( 



Toad in the Hole " from Cold Meat. 



Get about two pounds of pieces of under-done Beef, 

MuttoTiy Veal, or Lamb, and cut them into bits about the 

— . . size of an egg ; season with salt and pepper ; 

make about two quarts of Batter ; grease a baking 

pan well ; put in the meat and batter, and place 

in a slow oven. Cover the meat with the batter, that it 

may not be dried. 

95 1^^ Cold Boiled Potatoes may be sliced, and placed 
around the pan. 

96 1^^ Cold Boiled Peas and Beans may also be warmed 
and served in this manner. 

When was beef tea first introduced into England ?~ When Henry the Eighth 
' ' ' the papal bvUt 



28 THE FAillLY SAVE-ALL : 

An Excellent and Economical Family Dinner^ served 

in a homely way. 

Take any joint of meat, such as a loin of Veal^ or a large 

shoulder of Mutton^ and prepare it as for roasting. Make 

^. . a suet pudding without eggs, and place it round 

the side of the dish ; fill the remainder of the 

97 

dish with potatoes, over which place the joint, 

set upon a trivet, and bake ; the gravy of the meat will 
be absorbed in part by the potatoes and the pudding. 

98 1^" Recommended to the heads of lai'ge families. 
Serve it in the dish in which it was baked. 

" Co^re here and tell me M'hat tlio four seasons are ?" — ^Young prodifcy responds : 
«< Pepper, mustard, salt, and vinegar ; them"* what mother abcaifs slasmu with" 

Capital Stew made in a Firying-pan^ with pieces of 

Stale Bread. 

Cut in small dice half a pound of solid meat, keeping 

the bones, if any, for soup; put the frying-pan, which should 

__. be quite clean, upon the fire; when hot, add aa 

ounce of fat; melt it^ and put in the meat; season 

with half a tea-spoonful of salt; fry for ten minutes, 

stirring now and then; add a tea-spoonful of flour; mix all 

well,* put in half a pint of water, and let it simmer for 

fifteen minutes; then add some stale bread, the pieces of 

which have been previously soaked, and when hot serve. 

The addition of a little pepper, or a little pepper and sugar, 

will be an improvement; or a pinch of cayenne, curry 

powder, spice, sauces, pickle vinegar, or chopped pickles. 

100 jj^" Salt Meat may be dressed as above, omitting 
the salt. 

101 1^" Or, for a change, boil the meat plainly, or with 
Greens, Cabbage, or Dumplings, as for boiled beef; the next 
day cut what is left into small dice, put in the pan an ounce 
of fat, and when very hot, add the following: — ^Mix in a 
basin a table-spoonful of flour, moisten with water to the 
consistence of thick melted butter, then pour it into the 
pan, letting it remain for one or two minutes until set; put 



'SECONDAEY COOKERY. 29 

in ihe -meat, shake the pan to loosen it, turn it over, let it 
remain for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

** Hats yoa iOaaAT* nM. a tooaffir to Us Mend. <* I hAye, upon my boaoar,** 
npliod he. **TlieB,** n^otaei. the first, ''if yoa have dmed ttpon pmw kmovr, ycnt 
h»TB aaAe hot a leaiilsy anal.^ 



jI Fntgalf Agreeable^ and Nutritwe Meal for Eight 

JPersons^ that wUl neither Lighten the Purse^ nor Lie 

beany on &e Stomach. 

Wash three^uarters of a pound of Scotch bai*Iey in a 
little eold water; put it in a soap-pot with a shin or leg of 
beef, of about ten pounds weight, severed into 
f<air pieces (tell the butcher to do this for you); 
*"* oover it well wi<Ji cold water; set it on the fire; 
when it boilf^ skim it very cleanly, and put in two onions 
of aboot three ounces' weight each; set it by the side of the 
fire to simtoGier very gently about two hours; then skim all 
tlie &t cleanly off, and put in two heads of celery, and a 
lai^ge turnip cut into small squares; season it with salt, and 
let it boil an hour and a half longer, and it is ready. Take 
out the meat with a slice, cover it up, and set it by the fire 
to keep warm, and skim the broth well before you put it 
into the tui*een. Put a quart of the soup into a basin, put 
about An ounce of £our into a stew-pan, and pour tlie broth 
to it by degrees, stirring it well together; set it on the fire, 
and stir till it boilSy then let it boil up, and it is ready. 
Put the meat in a ragout dish, and strain the sauce through 
a sieve over tiie meat; add, if liked, some capers or minced 
jerkins or walnuts, &c If the beef has been stewed with 
proper care in a very gentle manner, and been taken up at 
the right moment, you will obtain an excellent savoury meal 
fat eight people. Plenty of hot vegetables accordiDg to 
setBon. 

43ir Capital fbr schoolboys when they come in with their 
DflBes firost-bitten ; or labourers hungry from the field. 

K GLCTTOK fen sick, and lent for a doctor. "I have lost my appetite,** said he, in 
great alarm. "It*8 not of the slightest consequence,** replied the doct^i*, "* you'i^ &e 
mart to dUif you rtoover it," 



3Q^ THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

A very Economical and Savoury Meal, equal to the 

most JExpensive Disk, 

Take an Ox Cheek, and prepare it as follows, the day 

before it is required: clean it and put it in soft water, just 

. warm; let it lie three or four hours, then change 

it to cold water, and let it soak all night. Next 

^^"^ day wipe it clean, put it into a stew-pan, and just 
cover it wjith water; skim it well just before it comes to a 
boil; then put in two whole onions, with two or three cloves 
stuck into each; three turnips quartered, a couple of carrots 
sliced, two bay-leaves, and twenty-four corns of aUspice^ 
a head of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and 
salt. Let it stew gently till perfectly tender, about three 
hours; then take out the cheek, divide it into convenient 
pieces suitable for the table; skim and strain the gravy; 
melt an ounce and a half of butter in the stew-pan; stir 
into it as much flour as it will take up; mix it by degrees 
with a pint and a half of the gravy; add to it a table* 
spoonful of elder vinegai*, or mushroom or walnut catchup^ 
and give it a bolL Serve in a soup dish; or it may be 
made into a good Barley Broth, 

Jl miser canght a fly, put It Into the sugar basin, and set a plate over it. ** What is 
that for?" said a by-stander. **Hashr' whispered the miser, **If the fly escapes, I 
shall know that <ome one has been at my mgarr 

A capital dish of Rice, with the Extract of Bones^ 

Six pounds or more of Bones, of any kind of meat; break 
them into small pieces, and boil in ten quarts of water for 
--. . four hours; add three ounces of salt, a small buncli 
of thyme, bay-leaf, and savory. Put into a stew- 
pan two ounces of dripping, two onions cut thin^ 
and half a pound of carrots, turnips, celery, or other vege- 
tables, cut thin; and half an ounce of sugar; set it on the 
fire for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; add half a 
pound of oatmeal, and mix Well; moisten with two gallons 



SECONDARY COOKERT. 31 

of stock from the bonos; add one pound and a quarter of 
rice, previously soaked; boil till tender, and serve* 

An orderly housewife once said to a slnisr^irard, *'How do yoa contrive to amtue 
yourself?" ^^Amuacr* said the other, starting, ** don't you know I have my house 
work to do?" **Tes, I see you have it to do^ but as it is never dont^ I thought yon 
must have some other way of passing your time." 

A method of Cooking Old Fowls, Pheasants, Black 
Cock, and other Birds, not Jit for Moastinff, 

Let the Birds be kept as long as possible, hung up 

where there is a free circulation of air; and, when picked 

-_. - and prepared for dressing, cover the bottom of a 

saucepan with slices of good fresh English bacon, 

upon which lay the bird; then add a pint of good, 

strong, well-seasoned gravy, place the saucepan upon a slow 

fire, the cover being on, and let the contents simmer for an 

hour and a half or two hours, turning the bird occasionally. 

and supplying more gravy, if necessary; when done, let 

the contents be put away in a dish to cool. Birds dressed 

in this manner, are good hot ; but they are far better 

when cold. 

106 1^^ Snipes and Woodcocks are also excellent when 
cooked in this manner; but require much less time. The 
principal thing to be attended to is the fire, that it be not 
too quick, as old birds can only be rendered tender by a 
gradual process. 

107 1^^ In roasting GamCy the principal desideratum is 
continuous basting, in which case the fire cannot be too 
ardent. 

A PARTT taking sapper at an hotel, a few evenings since, found the poultry rather 
tough. One gei^us, aiter exercising his ingenuity to no effect in trying to dissect an 
old fowl, turned to the waiter, and asked, " Have you such a thing as a powder-flask ? ** 
** No, sir, we have not ; do yon want one?" "Why, yes: I think the shortest way 
would he to bhw thii fellow ttp.'" 

A nice way of Warming Cold Fowl or Veal. 
Beat the white of two eggs to a thick froth; add a small 



82 TUB FAMILY SAVE-ALL 1 , 

bit of butter, or Bome salad oil, flour, a little lukewwm 

•y. . water, and two table-spoonsful of beer, beaten 

together until of the consistency of very thick 

^ cream. Cut tip the Fowl or Veal into small 

pieces; strew over them some chopped parsley and eschalot, 

pepper, salt, and a little vinegar, and let them lie till dinner 

time; dip the pieces in the butter, and fry, in boiling lard, 

to a nice brown. 

109 1^^ Cold Fowl and Veal^ usually dry eating, may 
thus be converted into a choice and new dish. 

Dit. MAKsn sayB, the best cnre 'for the hysterica Is to dit^arge the servant girl. In 
his opinion, there is nothing like work to keep the nervous system from becoming 
tmstrang. Some irom^i whik tiiey irant a j»Ay«eMM, when they need only a 
itnMing-hnuh, 

A very Clieap way of Potting Birds. 

In seasons when Partridges are very plentiful, and cannot 
be kept, on account of the hot weather, they may be advan- 

__. . tageously potted in the following manner. Clean 
them thoroughly, and season with mace, allspice, 
^ ^^ white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every 
part well; then lay the breasts downwards in a pan, and 
pack them as closely as possible. Put a good deal of butter 
on them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste, and 
a paper cover; tie it close, and bake. When cold, cut them 
into proper pieces for serving, pack them close in a large 
potting-pot, and cover them again with butter. 

Ill 1^" The Butter which has been used to cover Potted 
Meats will afterwards serve for Basting^ or for Paste for 
Meai Pies. 

A QENTLKMAN was One day disputing with Mirza Mohammed Ibrahim, about the 
exccUcnce of his cook, of whoso fame he was very jealons, and wound up with, ** Ue 
ought to know something about cookery, for he has been forty years before tlie fire." 
** Well," said the Mirza, " he may have been forty years before the lire '^ but he ii 
raw yett'* 

Very nice Scallops from Cold Chicken. 
Bone the meat, aud miuce it small; set it over the fire 



SECONDABY COOKERY. 33 

in a little cream, and season with nutmeg, pepper, and 
-J. . salt ; then put it into scallop shells, and fill with 

crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of 

112 

•^ butter, and brown before the fire, 

113 1^^ Cold Veal may be done the same way. Either 
Vecd or Chicken Looks and eats well, served thus; or lightly 
covered with Bread-crumbs, fried; or they may be put on^ 
in little heaps. 

Wht is the first chkken of a brood like the foremast of a ship?— Becaaae it's a 
little for'ard of the main hatch! 

Fricassee from Cold Chicken or Fowh 

Cut up the ChicTcen, and put it to simmer in a little 

gravy, niade of some of the water in which it was boiled, 

__. and the head, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard, stewed 

weU together; an onion, some pepper, and a faggot 

of sweet herbs. Keep it hot, while you thicken 

liie s'auce in this manner:— Strain it off; put it back into 

the saucepan, with a little salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter 

rolled m flour; give it a boil. Kow add a little cream, 

and stir it over the fire; but do not boil again. Pour the 

sauce upon the chicken, and add some small nicely fried 

forcemeat balls. Garnish with thin slices of lemon. 

**I BJEGAKD the discovery of a new dish as a far more interesting event than the 
discovery of a star ; for we have always stars enough, but can never have too many 
dishes. And I do not regard the science as su£9ciently honoured or represented among 
us, imtil I see a Cook eligible for Parliament." — Times. 

Broiled Cold Chicken or Fowl. 

Split them right down th« back, then rub them with 
_. ^^'^ and bread-crumbs, and sprinkle with clarified 

butter, over which some more bread-crumbs, and 

115 

broil over a clear gentle fire. 

116 V^ The Neck, Feet, and Gizzard, may be boiled 
down, with a small quantity of onion and carrot, previously 
browned in butter, to make gravy; and the liver, after 
having been simmered with them for five or six minutes, 
may be used to thicken it after straining. Season with 



34 O-HE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

lemon-juice, cayenne, and a little minced parsley; thicken 
with arrow-root, or flour and butter. 

117 U^ Serve very hot, with Mushroom Sauce, or with 
a little good plain gravy, thickened and flavoured with a 
tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, mixed with half as much 
flour, and a little butter. The bird should be pressed as 
flat as possible, that the fire may take equal effect, and to 
this end, the legs should be trussed like those of a boiled 
fowl, and the breast bone may be removed. 

118 1^* Cold Fowls may be Broiled and Deviled, 

A POOR emaciated Irishman, having called in a doctor as a forlorn hope, the latter 
spread a huge mustard plaster, and clapped it on the poor fellow's breast. Fat, vdth a 
tearful eye, looking downward upon it, said :— " Docther, docther 1 it strikes me that*s 
a dale of mustard for to little motel** 

Saitsaffes from Cold Fowl, Turkey y or Veal. 

Mince the meat, and add suitable proportions of suet, 

-_. , grated bread, ham, a little parsley, lemon-thyme, 

and chives. Mix these with pepper, salt, pounded 

mace, egg yolk, and flour. Koll and fry. 

120 1^" These sausages, made in small quantity, form 

an excellent Garnish to a Fricassee, or to Minced Veal, 

Mr. Jenkins was dining at a very hospitable table in the country, but a piece of 
bacon near him was so very small, that the lady of the house remarked to him, " Pray 
Mr. Jenkins, help yourself to the bacon ; don't be afraid of it ! " " No, indeed, 
mad^m, I shall not be. I've seen a piece twice as large, and it didn't frighten 
me a bit." 

An excellent Hash from Cold Roa^t Fowl. 

Cut a cold roast Fowl into pieces, and put the trimmings 

into a saucepan, with two or three eschalots, some fine 

__. herbs, a bay-leaf, pepper, salt, a slice of lean ham, 

and a little stock, or gravy ; simmer this for half 

^^ an houi*, then strain it off. Put a little brown 

gravy into another stew-pan, to which add the above gravy; 

let it boil a minute, and then put in the fowl. Before 

serving, squeeze in a little lemon-juice. 

Mrs. Brougham, mother of the ex-Chancellor, was a most excellent and thrifty 
housewife. On one occasion she was much troubled with a serv'ant addicted to dish 
creaking; and who used to allege, in extenuation of her fault, " It was crackit before." 
One morning little Harry tumbled downstairs, when tlie fond mother, running after 
him, exclaimed, " Oh, boy, have you broken your head? " " No, ma," said the future 
Chancellor, '• it was crackit before.'* 



SECONDARY COOEEBY. 3& 

Cold Road Fowls Friedy with warmed Vegetables. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, with butter, mace, nutmeg, 
&c. Cut the Fowls into joints, and dip them in this, and 

-_. . roll the egged pieces in crumbs and fried parsley. 
Fry the cut pieces nicely in butter, or clarified 

"^^ dripping, and pour over the dish any white or 
green vegetable, chopped, and made hot. Parmesan CkeesCy 
grated, may be used to give a piquant flavour. 

123 1^* Slices of Bacon may be fried and sent to table 
-with this. 

124 1^^ The pieces of Fowl, instead of being fried, 
may be warmed in a Dutch oven, 

Eddie (a very smart boy): "Pa, how many chickens are there on this dish?" 
Parent : " Two, my son.** Eddie : " No, there are three. This one is one, and tiiat is 
two — and one and two make three." Parent : " Well then, your mother may have one ; 
111 take the other, and you sfuiU have the tfUrd /<>r your dinner." 

A Delicate Dish from Cold Fowl or VeaL 

Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor, and a 

bit of butter, a quarter of an hour ; mince them very smaU, 

j^^ and add them, with their liquor, to minced Veal, 

or parts of Fowl, with a little pepper and salt, 

some cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in a little 

flour. Simmer three or four minutes, and serve on sippets 

of bread. 

Thk best description of weatnets we have ever heard, is contained in the wag's prayer 
to his wife, when she gave him some thin chicken broth, that she would try to coax 
thcu cMekem jutt to vade through the soup once morel 

Deviled Fowl, Duck, Goose, Turkey, 8fc., Meat, 

Bones, Sfc. 

Thil Legs, Bumps, Backs, Gizzards are the parts for 

*^ deviling J* But, besides these parts of birds, pieces of 

--. Venison, Veal, Mutton, Kidneys, Beef ribs, &c., are 

favourite relishes. The devils must be boiled on 

& strong clear fire, and served upon very 4101 

plates. The meat must be scored, that the hot seasonings 



36 THE FAMILY SATE-ALL : 

may find their way to the inner parts. The seasonings 
consist principally of cayenne, with salt, curry, mushroom^ 
anchovy, or tniffle powder. 

127 i^* When a Moist Devil is desired, the proper 
sauces are Grill, Anchovy, or anything very piquant, with 
Indian Gherkins finely chopped, or Choio-Chow Fickle, 

128 J^" Take the Rump, Gizzard, and Drum-stick of a 
Turkey, and rub them with seasoning of salt, pepper, and 
cayenne. Broil them, and while as hot as possible, cut 
into pieces ; pour over a spoonful of mustard, ditto of 
melted butter, ditto of soy, ditto of lemon-juice, and some 
gravy, mixed, and made very hot. 

Dr. Frasxlin was once endeavoaring to kill a turkey by electricity, when he 
received the whole force of the battery himself. Recovering, he good-humouredly 
remarked, that histead of killing a turkey, he hod nearly pat an end to a goote. 

An Excellent and Economical Dish of Stewed Rabbits, 

Bacon, and Onions. 

Take a pipkin, having a tightly fitting cover, and of 

sufficient size to hold a couple of Rabbits, cut into small 

-J.. . pieces, with four middling sized Spanish onions, in 

thin slices. Put a layer of onion in th(^ bottom 

129 

of the pipkin ; on this a layer of the pieces of 

Rabbit, previously seasoned with salt, pepper, and any other 
favourite condiments ; cover with a second layer of onions, 
then rabbit again, and so on until the whole of the rabbit 
is laid ; then a layer of Bacon or Ham, and over the whole 
a final layer of onion. Put the cover on, and stew gently 
for two hours, either in a slack oven, or upon a hot plate 
or hearth. 

130 ]^g* As no water is added, should the pipkin be 
placed on the ^e, the stew will be liable to burn. When 
ready, let it be turned out into a dish, and served imme- 
diately. It will be found to supply a delicious, tender, 
succulent, moist dish — far superior to the insipid, dry, 
fitringy, boiled rabbit and onion sauce of ©rdinaiy cookery. 



S£CONDABT GOOKEBT. 37 

131 1^^ English onions answer very well ; and should 
liie gravj, of which a large quaatitj will be produced, be 
required to be slightly thickened, a tea-spoonful of JBlour 
should be added to the seasoning when it is rubbed over 
the pieces of rabbit. 

A OAXEKCBFBR, vrifoig a letter to a Mend, determined to aend him some rabUts. 
** I hare the pleaBore to send you some rabbits — " ** Tell me," said he, to a companimiy 
** how many b's are there in rabbits? " ** That depends upon circamstances,** replied 
the rustic oracle ; " how many rabbits are yon sending ?" " Four." " Then elglit b's, 
of coarse, two for each rabbit." The keeper, therefore, wrote, '* I have the pleasiu^ to 
aend yon some rdbbbNMbittJ** 

Hashed Hare^ Rahhit, Turkey^ Fowl, Pheasant, §*c. 

Cut the remains into pieces of moderate size ; put them 
into a clean. dish, and pour all the cold gravy over them. 

_. Break the bones, and put them with the trimmings 
into a saucepan of broth or water, enough to 
' cover them ; add an onion cut in slices, half a 

tea-spoonful each of white pepper and salt, and a blade 
of mace ; boil it gently for an hour ; then strain off the 
liquor through a sieve into a basin ; and when cold, take 
off the cake of fat from the top, and mix the gravy in a 
basin with two tea-spoonfuls of flour ; then let it boil 
gently for a minute or two. Lay the meat in a stew-pan, 
strain over it the gravy, and place it near the fire to 
simmer, without boiling, for about half an hour. Five 
minutes before it is done, put in some stuffing. Serve with 
the slices of stuffing, and sippets of toasted bread, at 
the sides. 

133 [^* With Hashed ff are, put a little Cui-rant Jelly. 
If you have no Stuffing left, make a little, and fry or bake 
it ; or boil with the liquor a few sweet herbs, and a little 
lemon-peel. 

Ak Irish pedler asked an itinerant poulterer the price of a pair of fowls. " Six 
shillings, sir." " In my country, my darling, you might buy them for sixpence a 
fMKC** ** Why don't you remain in your own dear country, then?" ^ 'Case we have 
no tlxpence*t my jewel," said Fat. 

Pulled Cold Turkey, or Fowl. 
Divide the meat of the breast by pulling it^ instead of 



38 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL: 

cutting ; then warm it gradually in a little white gravy, 

v\ju. add a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a 

little flour and butter. While this is being done, 

broil the drum-stick, and put into the dish with 

the above round it. 

Good intentions are at least the seed' of good actions ; and every man onght to sow 
them, and leave it to the soil and the seasons whether they come up or no, and 
whether he or any other gathers the fruit. 

Very nice Patties from Cold Turkey^ Fowl, Pheasant, S^'c^ 

Mince the white part of the flesh, and mix it with a 

jj, . little grated ham. Stew this in a little good 

gravy, or melted butter. Put a spoonful of cream 

to the mince, and season with white pepper, salt, 

and mace. 

136 8^ Patties may bo made of cold Lamb, Vealy 
Turkey, Fowl, Fowl and Ham, Pheasant, Guinea Fowl, Hare, 
Rabbit, &c., and of Lobsters, Oysters, Shrimps, &c. 

137 l^@* Patties may be either baked in their paste, 
without the intervention of a pan, having a piece of paper 
under each ; or they may be baked in tin or earthenware 
pans of various forms. Those baked in pans will generally 
be most approved, because the paste will be more delicate ; 
or the paste may be baked separately, and the meat after- 
wards put upon it. Puff paste should be employed. 

138 1^" Or, Patties may be made with Fried Breads 
Cut the crumb of a loaf into square or round pieces, 
nearly three inches high, and cut bits the same width for 
tops ; mark them neatly with a knife ; fry the bread of a 
light brown colour in clarified beef dripping, or fine lard. 
Scoop out the inside crumb, taking care not to go too near 
the bottom ; fill the space with the minced meat ; put on 
the tops, and serve upon a napkin. 

139 1^^ Patties of Forcemeats, such as those compounded 
of Sweetbreads, Herbs, and Panada, or any other light 
forcemeat, must be united with the yolk and white of egg, 
and baked in the paste. When baked, the covers must be 



SKCONDABT COOEEST. S9 

remoyedy and some rich Sauce poured in ; or it may be 
introduced through a small funnel. 

A SAILOR went to a coi^iiror*8 exhibition. There were to be fireworks at the emi- 
chtrion ; bat they accidentally exploded, and bl^ np the room. The sailor feU in a 
potato field. Just ontdde, nnhnrt ; he got up, and shook liimself, and walked back 
towards the room, exclaiming, **C(mfoimd the teHow, I wonder lOuU he'U donextt** 

Ducks Stewed with Med Cabbage. 

Cut the cold DticJcs into convenient pieces, and warm 
them very gradually in a good clear gravy, by the side of 

—. . the fire. Shred some Red Cabbage very fine, wash 
it, and drain it on a sieve; put it to stew with a 

'*' good proportion of butter, and a little pepper and 
ealt^ in a stew-pan closely covered, shaking it fi-equently. 
If it should get too dry, add a spoonful or two of the gravy. 
When well done and tender, add a small glass of vinegar; 
lay it on a dish; place the pieces of duck upon it, and serve. 

A itAK whose firit wife was remarkably neat married a slat. On one occasion she 
mastered resolation to rub down the old mahogany table. Her good man sat quietly 
rq^aiding her until she had done, when he burst into tears. She desired to know what 
hsd affected him in so unusual a manner ? *' The sight of that table," said he ; "for I 
now recognise it as an old acquaintance, and it awakens reminiscences of days that are 
gone, for it always looked thus when my first wife was living." It is unnecessary to 
aay that the insulted lady bounced out of the room and declared, as she slammed the 
door behind her, that she would make heruJf a done to w> man. 

Ducks warmed^ with a Puree of Carrots, 

Scrape and cut in quarters eight or nine Carrots^ boil 

them very tender, put them in a sieve, and when drained, 

--. . stir them well on the fire, with a good proportiou 

of butter; when well mashed, and the butter 

begins to fiy, put in half a ladle of clear soup or 

gravy, and add a little salt, and a small bit of sugar; rub 

the whole through a tammy into a dish; warm it again in a 

jstew-pan, and stir it well on the fire with a wooden spoon. 

Having, during this process, warmed the pieces of Duck 

in gravy, set the whole upon a dish ; lay the duck upon 

the top. 

Ir order were observed for every one to mend his own heart or house, how would 
personal amendment by d^prees produce family, city, country, kingdom, reformation! 
Bow soon are thosestreets made clean, where every one eweep* Uififre Mt own door* 



.40 THS FJJOLT SA¥£-AJLL : 

Cold DmoK Stewed vxith JPeasL 

Put a pint of good gtwvy and a pint of grec?tt peas 

together in & stew<^ao, and let them stew until the p«as 

„ . are soft; then adda ghuw of red wine, or this uaayr 

be omitted. Add some onion chopped small, or 

garlic, if liked. A little more gravy, to make up 

the loss by stewing. Season with lemon-peel, sweet herbs, 

cayenne pepper, and salt. Put in the Duck, and warm 

gently, under a close cover. Add a little walnut catchup, 

and serve hot. 

143 I^^ For a nice variation of this dish the Feas may 
be Stewed in Cream Sauce, with two yolks of eggs beaten 
In a little cream, and served in a dish with a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Servants in America object to answer a bell ; they hold it unfit that Christians 
•Uookl be spoken to with a tongno of meteL Stampinp^ or knocking is the usual \vny 
of calling them. A gentleman having company rang a spring bell, which stood 
upon the sideboard. He rang repeatedly; at last the servant opened the door, 
popped his bead in, and said, "29itf more you rinfft (Ae more / won't come.** 

Excellent Dishes of Hashed Duck, or Gfoose, §'c. 

Cut the bird into pieces, as in ordinary carving; skin, 
and soak the pieces in a little hot gravy, set by the side of 

_-. , the fire. Add a small glass of wine, and sufficient 

mixed spices to give the sauce a high relish. Or, 

add a gravy of the trimmings to some onions 

nicely fried; thicken it, when strained, with butter browned 

with flour; stew the Duck gently, and serve with tho 

seasoned sauce, upon a deep dish, with fried sippets. 

145 l^p* For Goose, a little Sage should be added to the 
onion sauce. 

A NOBLE lord asked a clergyman once, at the bottom of his table, why the goose wa» 
always placed near to the parson? " Keally, my lord," said the clergyman, " I can give 
no reason for it; but your question is so odd, that I shall never see a ^vom in futura 
without thinking of your lordship.'*' 

An excellent Hash from Cold Wild Fowl, Partridges, 

Pheasants, 8fc. 
Gamye as for the table, and soak the pieces till hot ia 



SECONDAKT COOKEBT. 41 

boiling gravy, thickened with bread-crumbs, and seasoned 
with salt, mixed spices, a glass of claret, and a 
spoonful of lemon-pickle or orange-juice. Garnish 
^*^ with fried sippets. 

147 IB?* ^^^ Partridges or Pheasants y use white pepper, 
and white wine. 

148 1^^ A good Sauce for warming Wild Fowl may be 
made as follows: — Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the 
same quantity of good meat gravy, a little eschalot, and a 
bit of mace, for ten minutes; put in a bit of butter and 
flour, give it all one boil; then place it on the side of the 
hob, and steep the pieces of fowl to warm. 

149 1^" For a good common Hash of Wild Duch, 
or Tealy boil the skin and trimmings in some broth or 
gravy, with a Couple of lightly fried eschalots; then strain, 
heat, and thicken it slightly, with a little brown gravy, or 
browned flour; add a wine-glassful of port wine, some 
lemon-juice, and cayenne; warm the birds thoroughly in it, 
and serve as soon as they are hot. 

loO 1^^ Ducks may also be re-Hressed as Curr^y Brown 
Hagouty or Stew-soup, 

**1 ADVISE you," says Johnson, ''and I advise yon with great earnestness, to do 
nothing that may httrt you, and to reject nothing that may do you good. To presenre 
health is a moral and religious duty ; for health is the basis of all social virtue ; we 
ccn be usefal no longer than when we are well." 

Ragout jrom Cold Wild Duck or Teah 

Score the breasts, and rub into the incisions mixed spices 

and cayenne pepper; squeeze lemon-juice over them. 

_-. Warm them very gradually in a good brown gravy. 

Take out the Birds, and keep hot before the fire; 

'"' then add a glass of wine, and three finely-shred 

eschalots to the gravy; pour it hot over the birds, and 

gerve. 

Mias Cmristiah, a ndghbovr of Southe>''8, knew of a cockatoo turned away t^ tti 
flrst OMmcr for its determined hatred of a little girl ; by its second, because it disturbed 
n whole hospital with its screams; and by its third, a married lady, because the bird 
chose to be jealous of her hmbandt 



42 THE FAMILY SATE-ALL : 

Delicious Stew from Cold Roasted Moor-fowl. 

Cut them into joints, and warm the pieces by stewing 

very gently. Brown some butter and flour, and put it 

_-. . to some good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, ' 

mace, and two cloves, pounded ; boil the sauce> 

and put in the Fowl to warm. Just before taking 

them from the fire, add a spoonful of mushroom catchup. 

Everyone sees how preposterous it voald be for his shoes to be made upon another 
man's last. But how many a one is there who thinks that hit that ought to fit 
eMry&<Mfy'«/oo</ 

A Delicious Entree from Cold Grouse, Pheasants^ or 

Partridges. 

Cut the Birds, and take away the skin and fat; put 

the skin and trimmings into a stew-pan, add two or three 

__. sliced eschalots, a bay-leaf, a small blade of mace, 

and a few peppercorns ; then pour in a pint or 

rather more of good veal gravy, or strong broth, 

and boil it briskly, until reduced nearly one-half; strain the 

gi'avy, and skim off thd fat ; return to the stew-pan, and 

put in the pieces of bird to warm gradually on the hob. 

When hot, take out the pieces, and lay in the centre of a 

dish; squeeze into the sauce a little lemon-juice, and a 

sprinkle of cayenne. Give the sauce a momentary boil, 

and pour it over the bird. Serve with fried sippets. 

154 1^^ As the spongy substance in the inside of the 
Moorfoiol is apt to become hitter when the birds have been 
long kept, it should he removed. 

155 1^^ The dish, thus prepared, may be garnished 
with Liver Sausages, made as follows: — Chop one pound of 
calf's liver with ten ounces of fat bacon, and six ounces of 
bread crumbs; season with black pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel, some parsley, thyme, one bay- 
leaf, and some sweet basil, all chopped fine; add the yolks 
of three eggs, mix the whole thoroughly, and then form 



SECONDABT COOKERY. 43 

into round or oval sausages, wrap in pig's caul, and fry 
of a brown colour. 

Kaxt who fhiak that they are proceeding at quick time in the right direction, 
tf6| owing to a squint in the intellect, making all speed in the torong teay. 

Pheasant^ Stewed with Artichokes, 

Take veal broth, enough to cover the bird ; make it 

hot, and put in some parboiled Artichoke Bottoms^ a bit 

gj^ of mace, a glass of white wine, and season with 

pepper and salt, a little lemon-juice, butter and 

flour. Before adding the wine and lemon-juice, 

put in the pieces of Pheasant, and let them stew gently, 

until warmed. Then lay the bird in the centre of a dish, 

and pour the hot sauce over it. A few forcemeat balls 

set round the dish will be an improvement. 

Tms papers offer an encouragement to their readers to persevere in getting througli 
W)rk, by stating that—'* An old lady in Holland, whose sole occupation was housewifery, 
Kmbbed her sitting-room floor until she fell through into tlie cellar." She has since 
C3qii«8sed her determination to scrub tho ceilhig until she gets back again I 

A nice Breakfast^ Luncheon^ or Supper Dish, from 

Cold Woodcock. 

Cut up the Woodcock, and warm it in a gravy made 

as follows : — ^Beat up the entrails, and mix them in a sauce 

•-. , of red wine and water, a spoonful of vinegar, and 

a sliced onion ; to which add butter and flour ; 

boil this for a minute or two, and then put in 

tilie bird ; when hot, lay the pieces of bird upon a slice 

of buttered toast, and pour the sauce over the whole. 

158 8@^ Snipes may be served in the same way. So 
nmy Fee-wits and Plovers, 

Tna, the most precious of all possessions, is commonly the least prized. It is, like 
^th, regretted when gone, but rarely improved when present. We know it is not 
'*coveraWe, yet throw it wantonly away. We know it is fleet, yet feil to catch the 
'^"Tent moment. It is the epace of life, and wliile we never properly occupy its limits, 
^e nevertheless murmur at tneir narrowness. It is the field of exertion, and wliile we 
^^K^iully leave it fallow, we yet sorrow over our stinted harvest. 

Very nice Pasties from Cold Meat and Potatoes, 
These pasties may be made covered with paste, three- 



44 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

cornered in sLapc, as in the Cornish fashion ; or be mado 
__. , in tin moulds, the meat being laid in the bottom, 
and potatoes, mashed, ux)on the top, as in ^hot ie 
commonly called ^^ Sanders.** These moulds are 
sold at the ironmongers' shops. Cut, trim, and season 
the meat, and lay it in the mould, as if making a pie, or 
meat pudding. A little fat should be secured for the 
potatoes. Add water or gravy, cayenne and catchup, or 
whatever kind of seasoning is best adapted to the meat 
used, at discretion ; also mushrooms, catchup, or curry- 
powder, with Veal; and with Fish, a little Harvey* s sauce. 
Put the perforated cover down into the mould, and upon 
it, to the thickness of three or four inches, rising conically, 
heap potatoes mashed with milk, and a good bit of butter ; 
season with pepper and salt, and a little shred onion, 
if liked. Potatoes left from previous days may be thus 
used. Bake until the potato crust is nicely browned, and 
have ready a little nice gravy to serve with the meat. 

160 1^* If the pasty is to be Baked in a Paste, the 
tin mould is quite unnecessary. Cut and season the meat ; 
roll out the paste, in the form of a largo circle ; cover 
one-half of it with a thin layer of cold mashed or sliced 
potatoes ; over this, a thick layer of meat, and a little 
gravy, if the meat is very lean, or dry ; over the meat 
a final layer of mashed potatoes, stuck with bits of butter, 
or cold fat meat ; pepper and salt ; turn one-half of the 
paste over this, and nip the edges with the finger and 
thumb. Bake until the paste is a nice brown. 

161 l^p" Beef, Mutton, Veal, Veal and Oysters, Porlc^ 
Hare, Bdbhit, all other kinds of Game, Boult?^, and jFVsA, 
may be re-dressed in this manner. 

162 ^^ The same baked in deep dishes, with a 
savoury Paste Crust, produce excellent Meat and Potato 
Pies. 

" I XEVER thought an angry person valiant. 
Virtue is never aided by a vice. 
"What need is there of anger and of tumult, 
'When reason can achieve the same, and moro?" 



SSCQNIX/UIT GOOKEBT. 4$ 

A deSeims^ IHe of Sheep^s Head and Trotters, to be 

eaten ColcL 

ScAUD and clean a Sheep's Head and Trotters ; parboil 
tiiem, and when cold, cut off all the meat in square bits ; 

--. . season witii pepper and salt, and a little finely** 
minced onion. Pack the meat closely into a 

*"* pudding dish or shape, adding some bits of 
butter ; and fill the dish with some rich highly sea-* 
soned gravy, or with some of the liquor that the head 
and feet were boiled in. Cover with a plain pnstCj and 
bake for an hour. To be serve<l cold, the pie to be cut 
into slices, like potted meat, and garnished with curled 
parsley. 

164 J^^ Remnants of Ox Cheek and Tongue, Calf's 
Heady Tongue, and Brains, &c., may be made into pies in 
the same manner. 

A Scotch femily, remoyed to London, irished to have a sheep's head, prepared 
as they were accustomed to at home, and sent a servant to the butcher's to procure one. 
•* My gude man," said she to the butcher, " I want a sheep's head." " There's plenty of 
them," replied he ; " choose which you will." " Na," said she, " that winna do ; I want 
a sheiep's head that will iinjr (singe)." " Go, you idiot," said he, " who ever heard 
of a sheep's head tiiat could sing ? " " Why," replied she, in wrath, ♦* it's ye that are 
the idiot; for a shetp^s head in Stnttand can sing; but I discover yer English sheep 
ire^ as grit/ules iu their owners^ and they can do naething as they ocht." 

A Medley Pie, of Cold Boast Meat and Apples, 

Leicestershire Fashion. 

Cut some Apples into quarters, take out the core (pre- 
serving the pips, and sticking them into the pulp) ; cut 
•-. . thick slices of cold fat Bacon, and any sort of 
cold roasted meat ; season with pounded ginger, 
pepper, and salt ; put into the dish a layer of 
each, and pour over the top a large cupful of ale ; 
• cover the dish with a paste made with dripping or lard ; 
bake until nicely browned. 

Tbe three sweet fire-side sounds— the song of the tea-kettle ; the chirping of tho 
(Ticket; and the purring of the cat. 

A nice Pie of Cold Veal, or Chicken, and Ham. 
La.x a crust iuto a shallow tart-dish, and fill it with the 



46 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

tneat prepared as follows : — Shred cold Veal or Fowl, and 

--. . half the quantity of ffarfiy mostly lean ; put to it a 

little cream ; season with white pepper, • salt» a 

grate or two of nutmeg, and a bit of garlic or 

eschalot, minced as fine as possible. Cover with crust, and 

turn it out of the dish when baked ; or bake the crust with 

a basin inside to keep it hollow; warm the meat with a 

little cream, and put it in when the paste is sufficient!/ 

baked. 

167 l^S' Another, and a very nice kind of Veal or 
Chicken Pie^ may be made by scalding some parsley that is 
picked from the stems, and squeezing it dry ; chop, and 
lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat ; then 
parsley again, and so on, in layers. Pour into the dish new 
milk, but do not let it touch the crust. When ready, add a 
little scalded cream ; or the latter may be dispensed with. 

We are but farmers of ourselves ; yet may 
If we can stock ourselves and tlirive, display 
Much good treasure for the great rent day. 

An Excellent JPie from the Remains of a Calf^s 

Head. 

Cut all the flesh from the bone, and cut into square 

bits ; put a layer of Ham^ either cold boiled, or lightly 

-y. , broiled in slices, at the bottom of the dish ; then 

some pieces of the Head, well seasoned with pepper 

and salt, and a little of the brain sauce, if any ; put 

here and there forcemeat balls, or veal stuffing, and hard<- 

boiled eggs cut into slices ; and so on until the dish is full. 

Make a gravy, by stewing a knuckle of veal till tender, with 

two onions, a faggot of herbs, a blade of mace, and six 

peppercorns, in three pints of water ; let it simmer, with 

the bones in it, removing sufficient meat to make balls for 

the pie. Add the rest of the meat to the iiesh of the head. 

Put a little of the gravy into the dish, cover with a tolerably 

thick crust, and bake in a slow oven. When done, fill up 

with gravy, but do not cut the pie until it is cold. 



8SC0KDABT COOKEBT. 47 

169 BS^ Or, Oysters and Mushrooms may be introduced, 
and the pie be eaten warm, instead of cold. 

^^ i^i* Small pies may be made to eat hot, which, 
with high seasoning. Truffles, Morels, &c., will be found 
veiy nice. 

171 Us^ The cold pie will keep several days, and slices 
of it make a pretty side-dish, garnished with parsley. 

172 J^T Calfs Foot or Cow Heel may be used instead 
of knuckle of veal ; but these make the pie drier and 
harder. 

173 1^^ Pickled Tongues of calves' heads, or sheep's 
heads may be cut in to vary the colour and improve the 
flavour, instead of, or in addition to. Ham. 

A CALF fed for the London market is said to consnme as much milk as would 
Mke • hundredweight of cheese. 

Sea Pie; a Capital Dish, 

Make a thick pudding crust ; line a dish with it ; put a 

layer of sliced onions at the bottom ; tlien a layer of salt 

•-. . JBeef, cut in slices, with a fair proportion of fat; 

next, a layer of sliced potatoes; then a layer of 

Pork, and another of onions; strew pepper over 

ftU; cover with the crust, and tie down tightly with a cloth, 

previously dipped in boiling water, and floured. Boil for 

two hours, and serve in the dish. 

WuK your learning like your watch, in a private pocket, and don't pull it 
•St to show that you have one ; but, if you are asked what o'clock it is, answer 
SGcordingly. 

Pork Pies of Meat left after trimming Flitches^ 8fc, 

Cut the meat left after trimming flitches that are being 

prepared for salting into small pieces, together with 

^. . trimmings from the griskins, and the meat from 

the sweet bone; keep the fat and lean separate, 

and season both with pepper and salt ; then raise 

fte crust, and when ready, fill the pies closely with layers 

of lean and fat, those of the lean being of greater depth 



48 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

than of the fat. Unite the lids firmlj to the sides, and 
bake« Add no water or gravy. 

It la better to be langhed at than rained ; better to bave a wift who, like Uartiaffi 
Mamarra, cheapens everything and buys nothing, than to be impoTerlshed by om 
whose vanity will porcliase everything, but whose pride wHl chef^en nothfaig. 

A capital Pie from Goose Giblets. 

Clean the Giblets of one, two, or three Geese ; cut the 

legs in two, the wing and neck into three, and the gizzard 

~ . into four pieces; stew them well; preserve the 

liquor, and set the giblets apart until cold ; season 

them with black pepper and salt, and put them into 

a deep dish; cover with paste, and bake in a moderate 

oven. In the mean time, take the liquor the giblets were 

stewed in, skim it free from fat, put it over a fire in a clean 

stew-pan ; thicken with a little flour and butter, and 

season with pepper and salt, and the juice of half a 

lemon ; add a few drops of browning ; strain through a 

fine sieve ; when the pie comes from the oven, pour some of 

this into it through a funnel. 

177 ^^ If you have any cold Game or Poultry^ it may 
be cut into pieces, and included in the pie ; the Bones may 
be stewed with the Giblets. 

A TRAVELLCR was lately boasting; of the loxory of arriving at night after a hard 
day's journey, to partake of the enjojinent of a well-cut hani, and the left leg of a 
goose. " Pray, Sir, what is the peculiar luxury of a le/t leg?** ** Sh:, to conceive ita 
luxury, you must find that it is the only leg that is U/t/" 

A ^^ West Country ^^ Squab Pie. 

This is made with good plain paste. Apples pared and 

cut into pieces, onions sliced, and pieces of Mutton tolerably 

__. fat. Slice the onions and apples, cover the bottom 

of the dish with them, well intermixed, strew over 

178 

them some sugar ; and then lay upon them some 

mutton chops, or slices, seasoned with pepper and salt ; 
then more apple, and so on, until the dish is full. Add 
water in quantity proportionate to the size of the pie. 

VtBTUE comes firom industry quite as much as from morality. " An idle head is 
Satan's woricshop ; " and let a man do notldng for a fortnight, the old adversary will 
get possession of his pate, bring in a stock of evil thoughts, start the machinery of 
low passions, uid commence his regular business of prodnctng sin. 



SECaXDARY COOKERY. 49 

Very Savoury Purffs from Cold Meat and Potatoes. 

Cut any kind of Cold Meat into small pieces, and 

season them well with pepper and salt; add a little shred 

... . onion, if liked. Take the Cold JPotatoes, mash 

them, roll them fine with a rolling-pin, and dust 

with a little flour ; break an egg upon the potatoes, 

mix all well together, and make into a paste of the same 

thickness as for paste for ordinary pies, stifi*ening with a little 

more flour, if necessary ; roll it out in portions of convenient 

size; put the seasoned meat upon these portions, and fold 

in the usual puff form ; pinch the edges together, and fry 

them slowly on all sides. 

180 1^^ For Siqjpcr or Luncheon^ these Ptiiffs are 
excellent; or as a bottom or side dish, to help out a 
spare dinner. 

Thek£ are some members of the community, that are like a crrnnb in the mouth ; 
tf they go the right way they afford a little nourishment ; but, if they happen to go 
tihe wrong way, they cause a deal of trouble. 

Various ways of Cooking and re- Cooking that 
unmanageable dish, Ox-^heart, 

Tnni and clean the Hearty and wipe it dry; fill the 
cavities with a stuffing made thus :—- Crumbs of bread 

•-. (the quantity must depend upon the size of the 
heart), chopped suet or butter, say about two 
ounces, parsley and sweet marjoram, chopped 
lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, with the 
yolk of an egg; mix, and fill the cavities of the heart. 
Serve it with gravy, melted butter, and currant jelly. 
I^pared in this way, it may be either baked or roasted, 
and will require a quarter of an hour for each pound 
Weight. 

^82 1^^ Or, clean and cut the Heart in large pieces 
^gthwise. Put these into a stew-pot with cold water 
■Jid salt, and carefully skim away the blood, which will 
^ in large quantities ; parboil ; take up the parboiled 



50 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL ! 

pieces, and carve them into mouthsful; strain the liqaor, 
and return the cut meat, with plenty of shred onion, a 
shred head or two of celery, pepper, and allspice, and a 
dozen or more peeled potatoes, or some sliced carrots, 
This is a nourishing and economical Stew-soup^ and 
half a full-sized bullock's heart will be sufficient tc 
make it. 

183 1^^ Or, cut into pieces lengthwise, the pieces noi 
being thicker than half an inch; Broily with a piece o: 
fat or bacon, for ten minutes ; serve with a little currant 
jelly and butter, under the slices. 

184 rt^ Or, wash in several waters, cut it into piecei 
lengthwise; take a baking dish, and lay some slices o 
potatoes at the bottom, then a few slices of bacon, thei 
the pieces of heart, another layer of bacon; season eacl 
layer to liking, and fill up the spaces with veal stuffinj 
made into balls; add water, and Bake about an hour. 

185 ^^ Kidney and Heart may be mixed, or the flesl 
of Cow-heel be mixed with either heart or kidney. 

1 86 ife^ Calfs Heart may be dressed in the same way 
or be stufied with veal stuffing, and Baked upon potatoes 

187 ^^ Or, Bulloch's Heart, stuffed as for baking, ma; 
be Boiled, Small hearts, as of Sheep, Lambs, &c., ma; 
be stuffed, enclosed in paste, with a bit of fat baco: 
wrapped round them, and Baked, like Savoury Dumplingi 

188 ^^ Cold Heart may be Hashed the same as Bee 
or Hare, the stuffing being mixed with the gravy, an* 
accompanied by Currant Jelly^ 

** Wht do yon not hold np yonr head as I do?** Inquired an aristocratic lawyer of 
labouring farmer. ** Squire," replied the &nner, "look at that field of grain. All ti 
valuable head* hang down like mine, while those that have nothing in them itaii 
upright like yours." 

Various Methods of Cooking Ox^ Cdlfy Sheep, Land 

Pigy and other Livers, 

The claims of Ox Liver, as an article of food, are nc 



8EC0NDABY COOKEBY. 51 

Bofficiently appreciated. In the following manner it will 

_.. - supply a capital breakfast relish: — Slice, season 

well with pepper and salt, and Broil over a clear 

" fire; rub cold butter on it, and serve hot, with 

email slices of fat bacon. Calfs Liver in the same way. 

190 1^^ Ox Liver may be made into excellent and 

savoury Skin Puddings: — Boil the liver and grate it; mix, 

in equal quantities, grated liver, grated bread, and minced 

suet; season well with black pepper, a little grated nutmeg, 

salt, and a glass of rum. Half fill the skins, and manage 

them in the same way as other skin puddings. Some 

persons use double the quantity of suet, or add some 

bacon fat, chopped fine. 

191 l^P* Or, into excellent Paste Puddings, being cut 
into slices, with bacon, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
chopped onion, &c. The liver should be dipped into flour> 
and be laid alternately with slices of bacon in the pudding, 
which should be made in a dish, a little water or gravy 
added, and Boiled. Sheep, Lamb, and Pig Livers, may be 
dressed the same way. Ox Liver and Kidneys may be 
combined ' in Puddings, being browned and seasoned in a 
fiying-pan with bacon fat first, but not fully cooked; then 
put into the pudding, and boiled. 

192 1^^ Ox or Calfs Liver Fried with Bacon: — Cut 
some liver into slices about half an inch thick; melt two 
ounces of nice clear dripping in a frying-pan; dredge the 
sliced liver with flour, and fry it over a pretty quick fire. 
Then fry rashers of Bacon ; lay the liver in a hot dish, 
*Qd the bacon upon it; fry, and place round it, if liked, 
onions shred fine and nicely browned. Or garnish with 
crisp parsley, and the edges with sliced lemon. Or serve 
''nth melted butter. Or pour over the liver and bacon, a 
sauce made of a little butter and flour, as for rump steaks. 

193 l^g" Calfs Liver may be dressed with Herbs in 
^6 following manner: — Clean and drain a good quantity 



52 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

of spintich leaves, two large handfuls of parsley, and a 
handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions^ 
and sprmklo them among the spinach. Set them all on 
to stew, with some salt, and a hit of hutter, the size of 
a walnut ; shake the pan when it grows warm, and let 
it be closely covered over a slow fire, till done enough. 
Broil the slices of liver, and Fri/ rashers of bacon and 
eggs ; put the latter on the herbs, the other on a 
separate dish. 

194 I^* Calfs Liver may be Boasted: — Cleanse and 
wipe it; then cut a large hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs ' 
of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, 
onions, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg; sew the 
liver up; then lard it, or wrap it in veal caul, and roast 
it. Serve with good brown gravy, and currant jelly. Or 
it may be larded upon the surface, or have large thin 
strips of highly seasoned bacoA skewered on to it. Or 
it may be wi*apped in well-buttered paper, and be 
roasted gradually before a clear fii*e, being constantly 
basted. 

195 ^g* Bits of the Liver may be trimmed off, floured, 
and lightly Fried, with a sliced onion, and stewed down 
for gravy in water, with the addition of a few peppercorns, 
and a small bunch of herbs, salt, and auy kind of approved 
catchup, or pickle. 

196 1^" Calfs Liver may be Stewed in good broth or 
gravy, heated very, gradually; when it comes to a simmer, 
add a sliced carrot, a small onion cut in halves, a little * 
parsley, and mace; stew very gently; thicken the gravy 
with butter rolled in flour; and add a little white wine, 
if agreeable ; take out the herbs, and season. 

197 ^" Or Calfs Liver may be Steeped in Vinegar 
and Water for half an hour; then cut into thin slices, rolled 
in flour, fried very crisp, and served with Fried onions, 
without any other sauce. 

198 1^^ Calf, Pig, Sheep, Larrib, Poultry, or Oame 



6EGOin>ABY COOKEKT. 53 

JUktv, may be made into Stujffing, by being added to 
ordiDsry Veal Btaffiug, in any proportion that is found 
agreeable. Or may be Curried, to which refer. 

199 1^^ The Livers of Poultry, Game, &c., may be 
nade into a Ragout: — Soak them in water, and clean 
tiiffin; put them into a saucepan with gravy, pickled 
noafarooms, or a little catchup, and a bit of butter rolled 
in ioar or pure starch; season with pepper and salt; stew 
for ten or twelve minutes. The Liver of a Turkey may be 
ImUd, and set in the centre of the dish, with the other 
livers, or fried sausages, round. Garnish with lemon. 

200 l^ST Or Small Livers of any kind may be made into 
a rerj useful Liver Sauce: — ^Boil the liver of a fowl, &c., 
» few minutes in water, and rub it through a sieve, with 
a part of the water in which it has been boiled; then 
Tukib some melted butter, adding a little cream; and when 
it is hot, put the grated livers into it, seasoning with 
pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg. This is 
nsaally eaten with roasted fowl, being poured over it. 

201 1^^ Livers of Fish are variously used in Fish 
Sauces, and will be economised in various ways in our 
instmctions respecting Fish, 

SnuDET SinTH iras once dining with a French gentleman, who had been before 
dinner indnlgiog in a variety of firee-thinking speculations, and had ended by avowing 
liimaelf a materialist. "Very good soup this/ said Mr. Smith. **0ui^ Afongieur, e'ttt 
;* was the reply. **Fray, air, .do you believe t» a cookf* inquired Mr. Smith. 



Various Ways of Serving Tripe. 

The time required for dressing Tripe, depends upon the ^ 
«legree to which it has been prepared by the tripe dealers. ' 

•-.In general, an hour's boiling will be sufficient; but 
tripe that has not been prepared by previous 

^^ boiling, will take three to %.yq hours to make it 
tender. Raw tripe should be first boiled in plain water for 
two hours; then be taken out, and allowed to get cold, and 
«ny collection of fat scraped off, before it is stewed in 
niilk and water. 



54 THB FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

203 B^ To Boil Tripey cut it in pieces of moderate si 
and simmer it in milk and water until tender, and the m 
tliickish. Peel and boil a dozen or more button onio 
Dish the tripe in a deep tureen, thicken the milk with flo 
and put the onions to it; or stew the onions in the id 
after taking out the tripe, and then pour hot upon 1 
latter. Some persons prefer Spanish onions, either wh 
or cut in halves or quarters. Some like the sauce v< 
thick, in which case, a smaller quantity of milk m 
be employed, and more thickening; others like plenty 
thin sauce. 

204 1^^ Some persons like Trtpe boiled plainly in wai 
and served with Onion Sauce and Mustard, Others boil 
in Veal Broth ; or put a fresh Beef Bone, or Veal She 
to the water. 

205 1^^ Tripe may be Fried in Egg and Bread Crum 
like oysters, and is then a very nice dish; or, it may 
fried without the egg crumbs, in gravy, thickened with 
little flour, and flavoured with Catchup or Vinegar ; or 
may be FHed in Butter^ made thicker than for pancakes, 
eggs beaten with flour, milk, a little salt, pepper, and m 
meg; dip in the tripe, and fry in butter, or fresh drippii 
of a light brown colour, and serve with a garnish 
parsley and melted butter, with lemon pickle in it. 

206 1^^ Or, it may be Broiled like a steak, button 
peppered, &c. 

207 J^^ Or, it may be Boasted in the following ni 
manner: — Cut it into oblong pieces, and, having made 
forcemeat of bread crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper, a 
salt, with the yolks of two eggs, lay it on the tripe, put t 
pieces together, roll tightly, and tie; roast it for an he 
and a half, basting well with butter; serve it with Melt 
Butter, or a little Sharp Sauce. 

208 J^g* Or, it may be made into a Pie, there bei: 
layers of Ham, or Beef Steaks, in the bottom of the dish, a: 
afterwards filled up with tripe, fricassee fashion. 



8EC0KDABT COOKEBY. 55 

209 tS' Or, it may be Curried^ by frying with fat, and 

dnioiis in slices. When these are brown, put in the tripe, 

which must be preTiously tender; add a little salt and 

pcfiper, with a tea-«poonful of Curry Powder over the tripe, 

-A. little Fried Butter to accompany the dish. 

210 l^g* Or, Tripe may be Stewed in the Italian 
Jhskum : — Cut previously boiled tripe into strips, like ribbon 

Uaccaroni. Take a stew-pan, and melt in it three ounces of 

^[ood batter, in which stew gently an onion, cut very small; 

Yninoe finely from two to three table-spoonfuls of parsley, 

sod put it in the stew-pan; add the tripe. Dust in a 

quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese, finely grated, until 

the butter is of sufficient thickness to form a rich sauce. 

If more sauce should be required, add a little of the milk 

and water in which the tripe was previously boiled. 

211 tt^ Fried Sausages, or toasted Bashers of Bacon, 
may be served with boiled tripe, especially when plainly 



wites might appropriately be called Fe^rgies; gamblers' ladies. Bets; 
aai Soe would be Just the wife for an attorney ; Sophies should be of a sedative 
jMyHiflp ; and confectioners* wires should always be Patties. Sometimes a name 
Hlexdte ranariL. All the papers copied the raarriase of a Mr. Apple and Sarah 
Ante; hot we could see no impropriety in making the two appU* into oim pmr. 

Various Ways of Cooking and Serving Sweetbreads. 

SwEETBBEADS should be parboiled, and then thi*own in 

cold water, to make them white and firm. This is called 

•-.^^ blanching, and it should precede all the other 

modes of cooking. They may be Roasted and 

^^ served plainly, being simply rubbed over with eggy 

sprinkled with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and chopped 

paisley, and finished in a Dutch oven. They should be 

accompanied with melted butter, with or without a little 

iKMishroom catchup. 

213 1^^ Or, they may be Broiled, over a slow fire, after 
being rubbed with butter. Turn fi*equently, and baste now 
•iid then, by putting upon a plate, kept warm by the fire, 
'«nth butter in it. 



56 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

214 "1^* Or they may be Fricasseed thus : — Slice them, 
or dress one or more whole. Thicken some veal gravy 
with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little mushroom powder, 
a ilttle cream, white pepper, nutmeg, and grated lemon- 
peel. Stew these ingredients a little, then simmer the 
sweetbread in them- about twenty minutes. Serve with 
sippets of untoasted bread. 

215 8^ Or, they may be Fricasseed (brown) thus:— 
Cut them in pieces, about the size of a walnut; flour and 
fiy them of a fine brown; pour to them a good beef gravy, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, cayenne, and allspice; simmer 
till tender; thicken with flour and butter. Morels, truflleSi 
and mushrooms, may be added, and mushroom catchup. 

216 1^^ Or, they may be made into a Pie: — Parboil 
^YQ or six Sweetbreads ; cut them into two or three pieces; 
stew them ten or fifteen minutes in a little white stock, with 
some chopped eschalot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some 
salt, with white pepper, and a good many button mushrocHDS. 
Put them into a pie-dish, with some asparagus tops, force- 
meat balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and slices of £rt 
bacon on the top; cover, and bake. 

217 [^^ Or, a Pie of Sweetbreads and Potatoes: — Fry 
the Sweetbreads a nice brown; boil the Poto<o«5 tender, skin, 
and cut them into square pieces. Brown a bit of butter 
with flour, and a pint of good gravy, seasoned highly with 
spice and salt; put in the sweetbreads and potatoes, and lu 
them stew till nearly ready for eating. Lay them in thi 
pie-dish, and break down in the sauce the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, and add it. Cover with a good put? 
paste, and when the latter is sufficiently baked, the pia 
may be served. 

218 1^* Or, they may be Stewed with Potatoes : — ^Boil the 
Potatoes till the skin can be easily peeled off; parboil 
the Sweetbreads with them ; skin and cut the potatoes int 
pieces; and, if the sweetbreads are large, cut .them in two 
the long way; dust them with flour, and fiy them a light 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 57 

brown, in butter; then stew them in rather more than a pint 
of the liquor in which they were boiled. Brown a piece 
of batter with flour; add it, with a little cayenne,* salt, 
pepper, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and a glabra of 
white wine. Just before serving, stir in a spoonful of 
vinegar, or a little lemon-juice. 

219 1^^ Or, they may bo Stujfed and Stewed. After 
blanching, stuff them with a forcemeat of fowl, fat and 
lean bacon, an anchovy, nutmeg, lemon-peel, parsley, and 
a very little cayenne and thyme ; when mixed, add the 
jolks of two eggs, and fill the Sweetbreads, Fasten them 
together with splinter-skewers, and lay them in a pan, 
vith slices of veal over, and bacon under them ; season 
with pepper and salt, mace, cloves, herbs, and sliced onion. 
Cover close over the fire for ten minutes ; then add a quart 
of broth, and stew gently for two hours. Take out the 
sweetbreads, strain and skim the broth, and boil it to- 
half a pint ; warm the sweetbreads in it, and aerve with 
lemon sliced. 

220 1^^ Gold Sweetbreads (remnants of either of the 
pluvious dishes) may be made into nice Croquets, Mince 
S(»ne of the meat, and warm them in some of the -sauce, 
*o which has been added a little good stock, and a little 
cream ; when quite cold, form them into balls, or into rolls 
^bout two inches long ; fry, and serve them with firied 
parsley in the middle. 

221 S^* Or, as Rissoles: — Take the meat prepared 
*s above. Roll out thin puff paste, enclose the meat in 
'S brush it over with a beaten egg, and strew over it 
^^''ited. bread ; fry to a light brown. 

222 1^^ Or, as Scallops': — Cut them into square bits. 
^tQ"\ff them in strong gravy till heated through. Fry 
^^a.llops of bread. Place the meat and bread scallops 
^teniately upon a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 

223 B^* Sweetbreads, if not served as a 'separate dish, 
^^ke a great addition to Ragouts and Fricassees of other 



58 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

meat, cut into slices, or very large dice, with or without 
truffles, &c. Or, make a good addition to Galf^a-Head Pie, 

BossiNi had accepted an invitation to dine with a certain ladj, whose dinners were 
known. ^ be arranged on a. severely economical scale. The dinner offered to the 
tnaettr6 formed no exception to the general rule, and he left the table rather hnngry. 
** I hope you will soon do me the honour to dine with me again," said the lady. **■ Oh« 
yes, immecUaUljff if you Uke," was the reply. 

Various Methods of Dressing and Serving Kidneys^ 

Kidneys require a longer time to dress, in proportion 
to their bulk, than any other parts of animals ; and beef 

-_. , kidneys, more than those of sheep, lambs, &c. 
Ox Kidneys may be Fried in the following 
manner : — Trim, and cut the kidney into slices, 
dredge them well with flour, and season with salt, pepper, 
and cayenne ; fry on both sides, and as the slices are done, 
remove them from the pan, and make a gravy with a small 
slice of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, pepper, and salt, 
and a little boiling water ; add a little mushroom catchup, 
lemon-juice, eschalot vinegar, pr any sauce that will impart 
a good flavour. Some add to the gravy, at the last moment, 
a glass of white wine; serve with sippets of fried bread. 

225 1^^ Ox Kidney may be cut into small pieces (the 
harder parts being rejected), and mixed with ox or other 
heart, and Baked in a pan with potatoes, bacon, &c. 

22Q j^p" Or, as Scotch Kidney Collops : — ^Let the kidney 
be very fresh ; cut it in pieces, the size of very small 
steaks ; soak the slices in warm water, and dry them welL 
Dust them with flour, and brown them in a stew-pan with 
fresh butter. When browned, pour a little hot water into 
the pan, a minced eschalot, or the white of four young 
onions minced, with salt, pepper, cayenne, shred parsley,^ 
and a little plain or eschalot vinegar, or of onion pickle 
vinegar. Cover the stew-pan close, and let the collops 
simmer slowly for two hours or more. 

227 ^Sr Veal Kidney may be chopped with veal fat, 
together with a little leek or onion, pepper, and Salt, rolled 
• into balls, with a little egg, and Fried, 



SECONDAllY COOKEIIY. 59 

228 BS^ Or may be Stewed : — ^Make a gravy, and after 
skinning the kidneys, put them into a stew-pan, with the 
gravy, and a few fresh mushrooms ; stew gently half an 
hour, and garnish with toasted sippets. 

229 1^^ Ox^ Calves', Pigs\ and Sheep's Kidneys may be 
Split and -Broi/ec? ;— Cut them in the middle, so as nearly 
to divide them ; run a skewer through them to keep them 
open, that they may be evenly done ; boil gently ; season 
with salt and pepper ; rub a piece of butter over, and serve. 
They can be sent to table on toast, or • with any sauce ; or 
upon slices of Broiled Bacon, 

230 IS^ Or, they may be Fried, with Champagne: — 
Cut the kidneys in slices, fry them with salt, pepper, 
cayenne, parsley, and chives, chopped fine ; while frying, 
and when nearly done, pour in champagne enough to make 
a sauce. White Wine will do. 

231 J^S' Or, they make a capital dish, with Sheep's 
Tails, or Trotters : — ^Parboil half a dozen Tails or Trotters 
in mutton broth. Let them cool, and skim the broth ; 
split the trotters ; brush them, or the tails, with egg,. 
dip them in crumbs, chopped parsley, and a little lemon-- 
thyme, and brown them. Have six Kidneys larded and 
cooked in a Dutch oven, and stew a little boiled rice in. 
the broth. Serve the rice in a shallow dish, and lay 
the tails or trotters on it, their toes or points meeting in. 
the centre ; place a ' Kidney between each of them, and., 
garnish with cut pickles ; or with hard eggs cut into. 
halves. 

232 1^^ Pigs' Kidneys or Skirts may be dressed toge- 
ther thus : — Clean and wash them ; cut the Kidneys across, 
fuid the Skirts into small square bits ; fry to a light brown 
in beef dripping ; brcrwn a bit of butter the size of a walnut 
Tvith a little flour', and add as much boiling water as may 
be required for gravy, and an onion chopped fine. Add 
the meatj a little pepper, salt, and mushroom catchup^^ 
and let it stew till tender. 

D 2 



60 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

233 1^^ Kidneys are variously cooked in Puddings 
and Pies, to which the reader is referred. 

It is not what we earn, but what we «iw, that makes ns rich; it is not what 
we eat, but what we digest^ tha;t makes us strong ; it is not what wo read, tmt what 
we rememberf that makes us learned. All this is yer7 simple, b^jt it is worth 
reecdleettng. 

Methods of Cooking and Serving Brains. 

A:SY kind of Brains, previously washed, parboiled, the 
-_. , skin being removed, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and a few slices of bacon added to the 
^ batter, make a very agreeable dish. 

235 ^^ Or, after cleansing the brains in cold water, 
and then in hot, make them into Brain Cakes :— *-Free them 

. from the skin and large fibres, and boil them in water, or 
veal gravy, slightly salted, from two to three minutes; 
beat them up with a tea-spoonful of sage, very finely 
chopped, or with equal parts of sage and parsley, half a 
tea-spoonful, or rather more, of salt, half as much mace, a 
little white pepper, or cayenne, and one egg-, drop them in 
small cakes in a frying-pan, and fry them in butter of a 
light brown ; add a little grated lemon. 

236 1^^ Or, the brains may be Boiled, and beaten to a 
paste in a mortar, with some chopped parsley, green onions, 
and chopped mushrooms ; work this together with some 
cream and veal gravy. When properly seasoned, serve with 
Slices of Tongue, glazed, and set neatly round the dish ; or, 
Spread it on Toast, and divide into convenient pieces. 

237 U^ Cold Brain and Tongue may be converted into 
a nice Pudding: — Cut the brain in pieces, lay thin slices of 
tongue in the bottom of the pudding, then add some brain; 
season with salt, pepper, parsley, and a little chopped onions; 
repeat until full; and lay in two hard-boiled eggs, in slices; 
then mix a tea-spoonful of flour with a gill and a half of 
milk or water, and pour in ; then close the pudding, and 
boil one hour, and serve. A little gherkin, cut fine, may 
be added for flavour. . 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 61 

238 1^* Ox, Calv68\ Sheep's, Lambs', and Pigs^ Brains, 
may be made into similar Paddings, with remnants of 
either Tongues or Cheeks, 

239 ^g* Brain Sauces will be found by reference to 
the Index, 

As the late Professor was one day walking near Aberdeen, he met a well-known 

individoal, of weak intellect : — " Pray," said the Professor, *' how long can a person lire 
without bndns?'* **I dinna ken," replied Jemmy, scratching his head, *'Aow cmid 
art ye yourselt" 

Methods of Serving Mamfw^^bones. 

Have them neatly sawed, and fill up the opening with 

_-. , a' piece of paste ; tie a floured cloth over that. 

Set the bones in a saucepan, placed upright, 

, «W keep them covered, and Boil for tv/o hours. 

Serve uprighl, with a napkin around, and slips of dry 

toast. 

241 1^^ Or, the marrow may be taken out of the bone, 
and Spread upon the Toast, with a little pepper and salt 
sprinkled over it. The toast may be served dry, or may 
be just steeped in water, with a little butter rubbed over 
it while quite hot, and after that, the marrow. 

242 ^^ Or, the bones may be Baked with Batter, in 
a deep pie dish, after being cleaned and wiped. Lay them 
in the dish, and cover them completely with a good batter. 
Send them to a moderate oven for an hour or more, and 
serve them in the batter. 

a maid servant was dismissed on account of her lack of cleanliness. She requested 
Iter employer, if the cause of her dismissal should be mentioned, to do it in as ligrht 
terms as. possible. The following certificate was given to her : — " Anna B. has con- 
dm:ted henlelf veil in my service, the maJn cause of her dismissal being a tendency 
to hydrophobia,** 

Variotis Methods of Cooking and Serving Tofigzies. 

Ox ToiTGUES may he Stewed : — ^Wash clean, rub vp^ll with 

oooBonon salt, and a little saltpetre, or with salt, vinegar, and 

,--. . pounded allspice ; iet it lie two or thi^ee days, and 

iihen boil nntil the skin will come off. Trim >^ 

•'***' the coarse part of the root, but leave on some 

of the soft part. Put it into a close saucepan, with part 



62 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

of the liquor it has been boiled in, and a pint of good stock. 
Season with black and Jamaica pepper, and two or three 
pounded cloves ; add a glass of white wine, a table- 
spoonful of mushroom catchup, and one of lemon "pickle ; 
thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and pour it 
over the tongue. Or, flavour the liquor with a faggot of 
sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a head of young celery 
sliced ; take out the herbs, and season with cayenne, pounded 
cloves, mixed spices, and a little walnut catchup. Serve 
in a deep dish, with the sauce, and a few dressed mush- 
iDoms, or small onions. 

244 J^^ Or, they make an excellent dish Boasted, with 
the Udder : — Take an Ox Tongue, clean it well, salt it with 
common salt and saltpetre three days ; then boil it, and 
likewise a fine Udder, with some fat to it ; boil the udder 
apai't from the tongue ; let both be tolerably tender ; let 
them become cold ; then tie the thick part of one to the 
thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and udder , 
together. Serve them with good gravy, and currant jelly 
sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder for 
those who like the flavour. 

245 J^g* Or, they may be Baked, with Parmesan 
Cheese : — Cut a boiled Tongue in very^ thin slices ; put 
rasped Parmesan in a very deep dish, and lay the slices 
of tongue over it ; continue doing so, until there are three 
or four alternate layers of tongue and cheese ; sprinkle 
every layer with a little of the stock the tongue was boiled 
in, and finish with a covering of cheese, which must be 
basted with melted butter ; put it into an oven, and when 
the cheese is nicely mellow, serve. 

246 1^^ Or they may be Plainly Boiled : — Run an iron 
skewer through the root of a pickled Tongue; tie some 
string round the point of the skewer, and fasten it at the 
other end, to give the tongue the form of an arch. Boil 
for about three hours ; when done, immerse in cold water, 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 68 

Rnd pull off the outer skin. Truss the tongue afresh, in 
the form of an arch, put it to press, sideways, hetwBen 
two dishes, with a weight on the top, and when cold, trim 
It smooth ; or with a small sharp knife, carve the surface, so 
^ to represent leaves, flowers, or a short motto ; glaze it 
over brightly, and set upon a dish ; if cold, put a fringe 
of cut paper round the root. If hot, serve with a JRiee 
border; or, serve upon Spinach, or Mashed Turnip, Or, 
cold, garnish with veal jellies, from small moulds. 

247 U^ C)r, they may be Baked with Bacon and Qow 
ffeel, &c. : — Take a baking-pan, and put into it a thick 
slice of Bacon, and cover that with some lean veal, or 
beef-steak ; then put in the Tongue (either fresh or salted), 
after trimming, curling it round to fit the pan ; have ready 
the flesh of a parboiled Cow-Heel, place the pieces over 
the tongue, and over all another slice of bacon, and beef, 
or veal. For seasoning, take two tea-spoonfuls of pepper, 
a little powdered ginger and cloves, one bay-leaf, one 
carrot, and two onions sliced ; add two wine-glasses of 
brandy or sherry, four of old ale, and a quart of water ; 
cover well over, and put into a slow oven for three hours ; 
remove the cover, and set a board with a weight on the 
top until cold ; next day, dip the pan in hot water, suffi- 
ciently long to loosen the meat, and turn it out. Or, it 
may first be used hot, and the remainder Pressed for 
eating cold. 

248 l^p* Or, may be Stewed with Vegetables and Dump- 
lings : — Put in a pan, with any suitable proportion of 
carrots and turnips sliced, ^ome cloves, and small suet 
dumplings ; fill the pan with water, and add a little bay- 
leaf, thyme, or winter savory ; stew in an oven three 
hours ; trim and dish up with the vegetables and dump- 
lings round, putting some of the gravy in a sauce-boat. 

249 1^^ Or, may be Roasted, and served with Currant 
Jelly : — Soak a fresh Tonguk for two hours, sprinkle salt 



64 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

over it, and drain well in a cuU^nder ; boil it slowly 
fos two hours ; take off the ^kin, roast, and baste with 
batter. Serve with brown gravy, and Cun*ant Jelly Sauce. 

250 S^ ^^^ large tongue, or a number of small ones, 
may be Boiled in a Mould: — Trim the Tongues, cutting 
off the rough part of the roots, and removing the small 
boBes; roll them, tip inwards, to suit the shape of the 
mould; press down with a mould; boil six or seven hours, 
and stand in the mould until quite cold. Garnish 
wit^j parsley. 

251 i^p* Neafs Tongue may be Spiced and Served with 
Sweet Sauce : — Put the* Tongue into boiling water, and take 
off the skin; boil the tongue in a braise; cut it nearly in 
two, and stick it with preserved lemon, and slices and 
sticks of cinnamon put ii^ a stew-pan, a bit of sugar, a 
glass of wine, and a little gravy; simmer until the sugar 
is dissolved; put. in the tongue, and let it stew a little 
time. Dish it up hot with the sauce. 

252 8^ ^r Neat's Tongue may be Larded: — Having 
removed the root and gullet of a small Tongue, rub it well 
with salt; next day, hang it to drain, and wipe it. Let 
it lie in sal't one day; boil it half an hour; blanch and 
remove the skin; then, having rolled some freshly-cured 
fat bacon in a seasoning of pepper, salt, cloves, mace, 
cinnamon, and nutmeg, with parsley, knotted marjoram, 
chives, or eschalots, and a little morsel of garlic minced 
small [these may be varied], lard the tongue all over, 
except a little space from the root to the tip in the middle, 
where it is to be divided, braise and glaze as usual, having, 
after boiling, cut it in two, except at the extremities. 
Lay it on a dish in the form of a heart. 

- 253^ l@" tiffs' and Sheep's Tongues may be Stewed: — 
Blanch and stew them; make a compound of a dozen and 
a. half small onions, fried whole in butter, with a little 
minced eschalot, catchup, wine, and seasoning ; add a little 
stock. Stew the Tongues in this for half an hour; skim the 



, SECONDARY COOKERY. ^ 

sauce; set the tongues on a dish; pour the sauce over th^od, 
and surround th^n with the onions. 
' 254 B^ When Tongues have been in pickle about a 
month, they begin to deUriorate. Although not wanted 
hv immediate consumption, the best plan then is, to boil 
them as usual, and set them hj with the skin on; they 
will thereby keep for a fortnight or three weeks longer, and 
when wanted may be put in cold water, and gradually 
brought to a boil. The under-fat of th^ tongue, which 
'is otherwise liable to become rancid, will be preserved in 
excellent condition by this process. 

255 j^g" The Roots of Cold Tbnguea eat well warmed 
with Greens; or may be Potted; or serve to make Pea- 
Soup, Stew, or Scotch Kale. 

256 1^§* Or Slices of Cold Tongue may be warmed in 
any kind of Savoury Sauce, and laid in a pile in the centre 
of a dish, the sauce being poured over them. 

257 1^" The thin Tips of Tongues,. if hung up to dry, 
wiU grate like hung beef, and make a £ne addition to 
Savoury Omelettes. 

,258 H^* The remains of Pichled Torques are very nice, 
intermixed, and placed in a pan and pressed, when they 
will tarn out resembling Collarkd Meat. A little thick 
jelly may be poured into the pan with them. 

259 8S^ Fragments of Cold Tongues may be made into 
very nice Puddings; refer to that head. For Pickling 
Tongues, see Pickling. 

One morning, a i»arty came into the public rooms at Bnxton, somewhat later than 
Qsoal, ana requested some tongue. They were told that Lord Byron liad eaten it all. 
"I am rery angry with his lordship," said a lady, loud enough for him to hear fiie 
observation. "I am sorry for it, madam," retorted Lord Byron, "but, before I tat 
Ibe Umgwti I was assured you did not want it." 

* 

Various Methods of Cooking and Serving Heads 

Cheeks^ 8fc. 

The heads of the larger animals, commonly used as 
food, afford a variety of cheap and nourishing dishes, not 



66 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL I » 

adequately appreciated,^ because the methods of preparing 
p.. , them are little understood. They are not neces- 
sarily simple or meagre dishes, but may be made 
to yield soups, stews, sauces, pies, puddings, &c., 
of very good flavour. Ox-cheek may be Stewed with Vege* 
tables : — Bone the cheek, and steep it in cold water for two 
hours ; then parboil it in whter for five minutes ; immerse 
in cold water, drain, and trim it ; break up the bones, and 
put them at the bottom of a stew-pan ; place the cheek 
upon them, and cover with carrot, onion, celery, a faggot 
of parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve pepper- 
corns ; moisten with two quarts of broth or water (if the 
latter, add some salt) ; set the cheek to sinmier very gently 
by the side of the fire for about two hours ; when done, 
take it up carefully, and press it between two dishes. 
Half the broth may be used for preparing some brown 
sauce, and the' remainder boiled down to half a glaze^ 
Npxt, cut the cheek into twelve pieces of equal size ; trim 
them neatly, and place them in a saucepan with half the 
thickened broth, or glaze. Ten minutes before sending to 
'table, put the cheek, covered with the lid, to simmer gently 
until it is warmed through, and then boil quickly over a 
brisk fire for three minutes ; dish up, arrange the pieces in 
a circle, closely overlapping each other. Fill the centre 
with Green PeaSy or Carrots^ or Brussels Sprouts, or Stewed 
Onions, or Mashed Potatoes, or Turnips, or Cabbage, stewed 
or plain, or Mixed Vegetables, 

261 1^^ Or, Ox'Cheek may be Stuffed and Baked: — 
Cleanse it as for stewing, and boil it gently about an hour. 
Throw in a large tea-spoonful of salt, and remove all the 
scum as it rises. Take it out, allow it to cool, and separate 
the meat from the bones, working the knife close to the 
bones, and avoiding cutting the meat. When the cheek 
has become cold, put in it a good roll of Forcemeat ; skewer 
up the cheek ; bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half. 



Second ABY cookert. 67 

Drain it well from fat, unbind it gently, and send it to table 
with a little good brown seasoned gravy. 
' 262 1^^ Ox'Cheek, either raw, or previously dressed, 
will make an excellent Toad-tn-the^hole, which refer to. 

263 1^" The Liquor, in which an Ox-cheek has been 
boiled, may be made into good Barley Broth; or Beef 
Brose; or into Cock'tt'Leekie, and other Soups, which 
refer to, 

264 1^" The Fat, skimmed from the liquor in which an 
Ox'cheek has been boiled or stewed, serves very nicely for 
Puddings, or for Frying, or to make economical Soups, 
or Stews, 

265 1^^ Cold Ox-cheek may be Potted : — Cut the meat 
into small bits, and warm up with a little of the liquor in 
which the cheek was boiled ; season with black pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice, or vinegar ; then pour into 
a mould, and press. Or put it into stone-ware shapes or 
basins, and, when cold, turn it out ; garnish' with curled 
par&ley, or pickled beet-root, sliced. This is capital for 
breakfast, supper, or luncheon. 

266 1^" Or, may be Curried ;i or as Bubble and Squeak; 
which refer to. 

267 1^^ Calfs Head may be Plainly Boiled : — Clean it 
carefully, and soak it in water, that it may look very white. 
The whiteness will be improved by rubbing over it a little 
lemon-juice. Take out the Tongue to salt ; or, if preferred 
to send to table with the head, boil and skin it, and dish 
with the brains round it. Boil the head extremely tender ; 
then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, or 
melted butter and parsley. The Brains should be cleansed 
in cold water, and boiled ; then mixed with melted butter, 
scalded sage,' chopped very fine, pepper, and salt. When 
the head is dressed with the skin on, the ears must be cut 
off quite close to it ; it will require three-quarters of an 
hour, or upwards, of additional boiling. To boil the Brain, 



68 THE FiCHILY SATE-ALL : 

requires from fourteen to sixteen minutes. A Cheek a 
Bacon, some delicate Pickled Pork, or curled slices o 
Bacon, or some Sausages, should accompany Golfs Head, 
The head may be rubbed with egg, and sprinkled with 
breatl-crumbs, and brotoned in a Dutch oven after boiling. 

268 1^* Or, Caifs Head may be Boned, and SUwedT 
with the Brains: — The haad haviug been boiled until 
tolerably tender, let it cool, and bone it ; replace the brain ; 
lay the head in a stew-pan, aad simmer it for an hour in 
rich gravy. About half an hour before it is served, add 
half a pint of button mushrooms. Thicken the gravy with 
rice flour, or with flour and butter, and serve plenty or' 
forcemeat balls round the head. A little sweet*hasil wine, 
or a few sprigs of the herb, will improve the flavour. But 
if neither these, nor the mushrooms, are at hand, the rind of 

a small fresh lemon may be boiled in the gravy, and the 
strained juice be added when served. 

269 1^^ Or, Calf 8 Head may bo Roasted : — Wash and 
clean it well ; parboil it ; take out the bones, brains, and 
tongue ; make Forcemeat sufficient for the head, and s(»ne 
balls, with bread-crumbs, minced suet, parsley, grated 
ham, and a little pounded veal, or cold fowl ; season with 
pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel ; bind it with 
an egg beaten up ; fill the head with it, which must then bo 
sewed up, or fastened with skewers, and tied. While 
roasting, baste it well with butter ; beat up the Brains with 
a little cream, the yolk of an egg, some minced parsley, a 
little pepper and salt ; blanch the Tongue, cut it into slices, 
and fry it with tlie brains, forcemeat balls, and thin slices 
of bacon. S^ve the head with white or brown thickened 
gravy, and > place the forcemeat balls ajid brains. round it; 
garnish with cut lemon. It will require. about an hour and 
A half to roast, 

270 sBST Or, Calf 8 Head may be Stewed in Sauce *•— 
The head being well cleaned,, take out the bone of the lower 
jaw, and of the nose — the latter as close to the eyes as 



S£CONDABT COOKEBT. 69 

possible; -vrBsbtlie head well in'Wann water, azid let it 
blanch in soncte eleaa. water. Prepare a Sauce as follows : — 
One poosd of beef suet, and one pound of fat bacoii^.cut 
small; half. a poixnd of batter, a bnncfa of parsley, a little 
thyme, two or three bay-^leaveei^ one or tiro onions, and the 
juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper, mace^ cloves, 
Afid allspice ; b«il all this an hour in six pints of water ; 
then tie the head, in a cloth; stew it in the sauce about: 
three hoars, and drain it- ; take out the tongue, skin, and 
i^plaee it ; serve quite hot, with a sauce made of* mineed 
esehalots, parsley^ the brains minced, some vinegar, saltj 
and pepper. 

271 1^* Or Calfs Head may be Cunned': — ^Prepare the 

head as for boiling ; boil a pound of rice as for currie, and 

pile it in the centre of a dish. Hare ready a sauce made of 

two acid apples^ and four nrashrooma sliced, a sprig of 

thyme, a few sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, and four 

eioves. Fry these in ' two ounces of butter, and, when 

browned slightly, rub to this a large table-spoonful of 

omrry-powder. Stir- well in, and add three pints of white 

sa»ce. .Boil the - whole for fifteen minutes ; strain into 

another stew-pan, add white pepper, a little cayenlie, and 

salt, and pour it hot over- the hash of* the head kept warm. 

Serve the pyramid of rice with the top flattened into awell, 

in which the- cooked Brains are to be laid. 

272 Bp* For variety, a whole Calfs Hec^uieey be 
divided into halveSj one half be boiled, the other roasted, 
or baked, 

278 BS^ Cc^lves^ Ears may be Stewed for a delicate* 
^cfe'X>28A?^^— Take two or foiar ears, cut off deep and even 
at the* bottom, so that they*' will stand ; clean them 
vr^ ; boil till tender, in milk and water; fill them with a 
nic» Forcemeat ; tie themr with thread, and stew them in a 
little' of the liquor they were boiled in; season it with- 
p^iper, salt, mace, and a' smadl onion mineed* Before 
seizing, thicken* the sauce with the yolk of an egg^ beaten 



70 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

in a little cream. Or, the ears may be filled with a Staffing 
of calf's liver, fat bacon, grated ham, bread soaked in 
cream or gravy, herbs, an unbeaten egg, a little salt, and a 
Bmall piece of mace. Or, substitute cold chicken for the 
liver. Or, the ears and stuffing may be rubbed over with 
Qgg, and Fried of a light brown. 

274 1^^ Calfs Head may be Collared: — Scald the 
skin of a fine head, and clean it nicely ; take out the 
brains. Boil until the meat separates easily from the 
bones, and remove the latter. Have ready a good quantity 
of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, 
thoroughly intermixed ; season the meat well with these ; 
lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick 
slices of good ham or tongue ; the yolks of six eggs, 
boiled hard, stuck in various parts ; roll the head quite 
close, and tie it tightly. Boil it, and proceed as for other 
collars. 

275 1^^ Galfs Head is eminently useful for various 
SoupSy to which refer. The Liquor in which a head 
has been boiled makes excellent Broth, with or without 
vegetables, or puree of peas, carrots, turnips, &c., or base 
for Mock Turtle, 

276 1^" Cold CaJfs Head may be Grilled, CwTied, 
Fricasseed, Hashed, Fried as Cutlets, made into Fies, or 
Fatties, &c., or Collared or Fotted, to which refer. 

277 J^^ Sheep* s Head and Pluck may be Stewed:^- 
Split the head into halves, remove the brains, steep the 
whole in water, and wash them thoroughly. Place the 
head, hcfart, and liver in a stew-pan, with carrot, onion^ 
a faggot of parsley, some green onions, two blades of mace, 
a dozen cloves, and a tea-spoonful of peppef-corns ; 
moisten with a glass of brandy, and sufficient broth 
or water ; add salt ; cover the whole with buttered paper, 
and put the lid on ; then set the stew-pan on a gentle 
fire to braise for about one hour and a half. When the 
head, &c., are done, take them- up carefully on a dish. 



SEpONDARY COOKEllY. 71 

Stain the broth, and, after having divested it of all fat, 

^ down one-half to a thin glaze, and with the remainder 

&2ke some brown sauce. The pieces of the head should 

^ trimmed, seasoned with pepper and salt, chopped 

parsley, and two eschalots, then rubbed over with beaten 

^oSi 'well covered with bread crumbs, and placed aside 

<>n & dish. The liver and heart should be minced fine, 

ft^d when the sauce has been reduced to the usual coii- 

sistemcy, added to the mince, together with a spoonful 

of fine herbs, and a little lemon-juice. When about to 

send to table, make the mince quite hot, and turn it out 

^^ a dish ; place the pieces of the head, previously 

hroiled on both sides, upon the n^ince. Then pour oii 

some of the thin glaze, and serve. This is a capital 

dish. 

278 J^^ Sheep's Heads may be Boiled : — Before 

•^'-ling, take out the brains ; wash them clean, and free 

^ena from the skin ; chop about a dozen sage leaves 

^ery small, tie them in a bag, and let them boil half 

•"^^ hour, then beat them up with pepper and salt, and 

"fti^ an ounce of butter ; pour it Over tiie head, when 

^' is taken up, after boiling for two hours ; or serve it 

'^ a tureen, or on a dish with the tongue. Accom- 

P^^-iximents as for Boiled Mutton, The liquor makes 

<^'^pital Broth. 

279 1^^ LamVs Head and JPlucJc may be served ia 

^ similar way : — Scald the head, and take off the hair ; 

P^fboil it with the pluck ; divide the head, and take 

^^t; the brains ; mince the heart and lights, and an 

^'^ion ; put it into a saucepan with a little gravy ^ 

^^ickened with butter and flour ; add a little salt and 

l^pper ; cover the pan closely, and let it stew an hour. 

^^b the head with the yolk of an egg beaten, and 

strew over it finely-grated bread, mixed with salt and 

Pepper, and boiled minced parsley ; stick bits of butter 

*^©re and .there, and brown it in a Dutch oven. Cut 



72 THE FAHILY SAYE-AXX : 

tbc liver into slices, and frj it in butter ; mtike tbd 
brains into cakes. Serve the head upon the mince, and 
garnish with the liver. 

280 Ig^ Sheep's and Lambs* Heads may be Grilied, 
or browned in a Dutch oven. Braised, and Breads 
crumbed, and served with any kind of Sharp Sanee; 
or may be boned for Puddings, Pies, Toad-in-the-Hok, 
or may be Boiled, or Bahed upon or under Potctoes, 
with or without Batter, &c. 

281 1^^ Pig*s Cheek may be Stuffed, Stewed, and 
Collared: — Take a head cut off deep from the nect ; 
singe it carefully ; put a red-hot poker into the ears ; 
bone the head, taking care not to break the skin. Bub 

, it with salt, and pour boiled cold brine over it, w^th 
a large handful of chopped juniper-berries, a few bruised 
cloves, and four bay-leaves, with thyme, basil, sage, 
a head of garlic, bruised, and a quarter of an ounce of salt- 
petre, pounded. Let the head steep in this for ten days, 
and turn and rub it often. Then wipe, drain, and dry 
it, and make a Forcemeat for it thus : — Take equal 
quantities of undressed ham, and breast of bacon ; season 
this highly with pepper, and spicos, if liked. Pound 
this meat very smooth, and mix with it some seasoned 
lard, parsley, and young onions, finely minced. Spread 
this equally over the head. Roll up and sew it ; bind 
in a cloth, and stew it in a braise made of any trimmings 
and seasonings left, with stock to cover it. It will 
take nearly four hours to cook, and will be still rieher 
if larded before it is stuffed. "Pierce it with a larding 
pin 5 if the pin enters easily, it is done. When cool, 
take off the binding cloth ; trim the ends, and serve 
on a napkin. It will keep a long while. 

282 i^l'' Or, Pig^s Head and Feet may be Soitsed:-^^ 
Clean them carefully, and boil them ; take for sauce part . 
of the liquor, and add vinegar, lime or lemon juice, salt,. 
cftyennCj black and Jamaica pepper ; put in, either cut. 



aSCONDARY COOKSRT. 73 

iown, or whole, the head and feet ; boil all together 
^r an hour, and pour it into a deep dish. It is to be 
«*ten cold with mustard and vinegar. 

283 1^^ Pig's Ears and Feet may be Stewed and 
-^Aec? ;— -Boil the ears and feet till the bones of the 
latter nearly drop out. Cut the ears into long narrow 
strips, and stew them with a little good gravy, half a 
glass of white wine, pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
and a little mustard. While the ears are stewing, split 
the feet in half, wet them with the yolk of Qg^, and 
dredge them with bread-crumbs ; then fry them in 
some nice lard, to a light brown. Servo them nicely 
ranged round the stewed ears in a dish. Two sets of 
feet and ears make a good dish. 

284 [^p* Pig's Head may be Pickled and Collared: — 
Take out the brains, and clean the head well; rub it with 
two ounces of saltpetre, and a sufficient quantity of com- 
mon salt; let it lie a fortnight; turn it every day, and rub 
it well in the brine; then wash it, and boil it till the bones 
will come out easily; but care must be taken not to boil 
it so much as for the bones to drop out. Lay it in a 
dish, and take off the skin without damage;' take out the 
^nes, and peel the tongue; have ready a largo handful 
of sage, washed and picked, a table-spoonful of thyme, 
picked from the stalks, and four eschalots, chopped very 
^^^» Put the meat to it, and chop it a little, till the bits 
®^ meat are about an inch square; put a strainer or thin 
c^otlx in the bottom of an earthen pot or pan, large 
enough to come up to the sides, and cover it ; lay the 
skin from one side of the head at the bottom of the pot, 
™^H the meat and the other skin at the top; or use a tin 
^^^Id; press it down with a board that will go within 
^^ pot or mould, having first covered it with the corners 
^^ tihe cloth that was laid in the bottom of it; set the pot 
"^ ^he liquor again (which must be kept over the fire all 
^"^^ time), and let it boil three-quarters of an hour longer ; 



< 4 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

then take it out, set a weight upon the board, and let it 
remain all night ; then take it out, strip off the cloth, and 
it is fit for use. The Ears may be chopped with the meat, 
or be put in whole, at a proper distance from each other ; 
or be dressed with the Feet for a separate dish. 

285 ^^ Or, Pig's Head may be Collared more ex- 
peditiously by boiling it in a pickle consisting of one 
gallon of water, two pounds of salt, three-quarters of a^ 
pound of brown sugar, half a pound of saltpetre bruised. 
With the head may be used the feet, ears, tongue, or a piece 
of the belly, with some of the sword. The meat should 
be boiled very tender, until a quill will go through it. 
Season with pepper, a little mace, cayenne, and salt, the 
latter if necessary. Place the sword parts round the 
outer parts of the brawn tin, and fill the tin with meat, 
pressing it down with a heavy weight. 

286 1^* Or, Pig's Head may be Collared with Cow 
Heels: — Three Cow Heels to (\ 'Pig's Head, to which may 
be added the feet, ears, and tongue of the pig, and a NeaVs 
Tongiie pickled. Cut the meat into pieces, and lay them 
nicely in the tin. Proceed in other respects as in the 
preceding directions. 

287 8^ Pig^s Head or Cheek may be Baked upon 
Potatoes, with a little sago and onion stuffing placed in 
the ears, underneath. Or, may be Pickled and Smoked^ 
as a breakfast relish, or to accompany poultry, &c. 

288 1^^ The Liquor in which Pigs' Heads or Cheeks 
have been boiled or stewed for collaring, will make a- 
good stock for Pea Soup, The remains of a Pi^s Hea^ 
may be used for, Toad-in-the-Hole. 

Old Charles Mathews, in his entertainment entitled "At Home," tised to teC 
a story of pulling up at a roadside inn, and interrogating the waiter as to what hes 
could have for dinner. "Any hot joint?" said the traveller. " No, sir, no hot joints 
sir." "Any cold one?" " Cold one, sir ? No, sir, no cold one, sir." " Can you broil- 
nij a fowl?" "Fowl, sur? No, su-, no fowl, sir." " No fowl, and in a country Inn r " 
exclaimed Mathews. " Let me have some eggs and bacon." " Eggs and bacon, su:?^ 
Siiid the waiter ; " no eggs and bacon, sir." " Confound it l" at lengtli said i3b& 
'lungry traveller, " what have you got in the house ?" " An execution, sir,* 
the prompt reeponse of the doleftal waiter. 



SECONDARY COOKERY, 75 

Ymom Methods of Cooking and Serving Necks of 

Veal, Mutton, Lamb, 8fc, 
A Neck of Veal may be Stewed: — Lard the best end 
with bacon, rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, 

•n. and nutmeg ; put it into a pan, and cover it with 

water. Put to it the scrag-end, a little lean 

bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of 

celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine (the latter 

Diay be omitted, or any white substituted). Stew it quickly 

two hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain 

off the liquor ; mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan 

till brown, and lay thie veal in this, the upper side to 

tile bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire until it 

gets coloured ; then lay it into the dish, stir some of the 

liquor in, and boil it; skim nicely, and squeeze orange 

or lemon-juice into it; serve with the meat. 

290 8S* Or, cut off the Scrag to boil, and cover it 
with Onion Sauce, Boil it in milk and water. Parsley 
' and Butter may be served with it, instead of onion sauce. 
Or, it may be Stewed with whole Rice, small onions, arid 
pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or, Boiled, and 
eaten with Bacon and Greens; or, the best end may be 
either. Roasted, Broiled, or made into Pies, 

291 U^ Neck of Mutton may be dressed as Cutlets, 

'W'itli Mashed Potatoes: — Take a neck, and divide it into 

cutlets ; beat, and trim them neatly ; lay them in a pan 

with some clarified butter, and cover them, till required ; 

Meanwhile cut and slice five or six good potatoes ; boil 

them ; when done, drain them on a sieve, and stir them 

'w^ell in a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, 

^^^ seme good cream ; rub the whole through a sieve, 

^iid put it again in a stew-pan warm ; then put the cutlets 

OQ a moderate fire; turn them till done; add a spoonful 

^f gravy or broth ; stir them about till well done ; place 

them round the dish, and put the potatoes hot in the 

naiddle. 



76 THE FAMILY -SAVE-AiL : 

292 1^" Neck of Mutton stewed with Bacon^ Turnips^ 
&c. : — Cut the neck into good cutlets, beat and trim them, 
and lay them between slices of fat bacon, with the scrag 
ends and trimmings chopped in pieces, placing some at 
the bottom, and some over the cutlets, with a carrot, oniorij 
parsley, clove of garlic, pepper-corns, and some good strong 
gravy, just enough to cover them ; let them stew very gently 
for two hours or rather more ; take the whole from the fii^* 
to cool, then trim them very neatly, and put them in ^ 
pan. A quarter of an hour before dinner, put them int^ 
a gentle oven, with some glaze, a small bit of butter, an^ 
a little gravy; cut and fry turnips as for turnip soup 
put them in a stew-pan with a ladleful of good gravy^ 
a little sugar, and salt; stew gently until the sauc^ 
thickens ; then add a little lemon-juice ; pour the turnip^ 
into the centre of the cutlets, and serve. 

293 1^^ Neck of Mutton may be Boiled: — As thes* 
scrag end takes longer to boil, some persons cut it off, 
and boil it half or three-quarters of an hour before the 
rest; however well washed, the liquor will require atten- 
tive skimming. When it is time to put the best end in, 
add cold water to check the heat, allowing an hour and a 
half, or three-quarters, after the second boil. Cut off" 
some of the fat before dressing, which may be made into 
Suet Dumplings, Peel off the skin when taken up. Parsley 
and butter, caper sauce, onion, turnips, carrots, spinach, 
&c., are proper accompaniments to Boiled Mutton in 
general. 

294 ^^ Neck of Mutton may be Boasted; or cut into 
Chops for Cutlets, Hashes, Stews, Pies, &c. The Liquor 
of the boiled neck furnishes good Mutton Broth. 

295 l^a^ Neck of Lamb may be dressed the same as 
Mutton, 

A UAHHEN lady, snspoc^iiig her female Bervant was regaling ^ " follows " imoa 
the cold mutton in the larder, called Betty, and inquired whether she did not hear 
some one -with her doMmstairs? " Oh, no, ma'am," replied the girl, "it waa «»^y 
me, humming a psalm !" " You may sing psalms, Betty," replied the mistress, ** bttt^ 
jet's have no himSf Betty. I have a great objection to hims.'* 



I 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 77 

Patums Methods of Cooking Feet, Heels, TVotiers, Sfc. 

Skilfully used, Cow-heels may be made to supply various 

mice and economical dishes. After being boiled tender, 

-~. , cut into convenient pieces, egg and bread-crumb 

them, and Fr^ to a light brown; lay them round 

a dish, and put in the middle sliced onions 

^ried, or the accompaniments usual for tripe. 

297 ^^ Or, Cow-heel may be Boiled: — ^After being 
scsraped and cleaned .well, boil gently until tender, with 

'ater or milk, onions, and salt, as for tripe. 

298 1^^ Or they make a very nice Potted Meat: — 
iut the meat into small' pieces, and add just a sufficient 

X>ortion of liquor to moisten it ; mix with it a table-spoonful 
of vinegar, with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace ; 
I>iit it into a mould, press it down, and turn out when 
oold.' It is usually eaten with vinegar and mustard. 

299 1^^ The watei: they were boiled in will make 
good Broth, or base for Soup, to which refer. 

300 1^^ Cow-heels may be used for Jellies, when Calf*s 
Peet cannot be obtained ; they may also be added to Mock 
Turtle and other Soups. 

301 1^" Calfs Feet may be Stewed: — Divide a foot 
into four pieces, ^nd put it to stew with half a pint of 
water; add a potato and onion sliced, and a seasoning 
of pepper and salt ; let the whole simmer gently for two 
bojirs. 

302 ^^r Or, Calfs Feet may be Boiled plainly, as 
Cow-heeL 

303 l^r Or may be FHed in Batter, and served with 
^^dian, or any other suitable Sauce, 

304 j^g^ Or be Braised, and afterwards drained upon 
ft cloth, cut into pieces about two inches square, then 
pot into a stew-pan with some butter, mushrooms, and 
*oce, and served with a border of Mashed Potatoes. 

305 ^^ Or nicely Potted, as follows :— Boil the feet 
W for jelly, pick all the meat from the bones, add to it 



78 THE FA3IILY SAVE-ALL : . 

half a pint of gravy, and a seasoning of salt, peppen 
nutmeg, garlic, eschalot, and shred ham ; simmer it fk 
half an hour; dip a mould into water; put in a lay« 
of meat, then some pickled beet-root, and some boilc 
minced parsley ; upon this, a layer of meat, and so o: 
till the mould be filled. When cold, turn it out. Or c 
it in a plainer manner, as the Cow-heel; or the Cow-he 
may be done in this way. 

306 1^^ Calves' Feet are best for Jellies^ and for Brot3 
for invalids. For Jellies, the unboiled feet should t 
procured from the butcher's; they will make a largi 
quantity of jelly, better in quality than the boiled fee 
from the tripe shops. 

307 1^^ ^iffs* Feet, after being pickled about ten dayj 
may be gently Braised in common broth, seasoned witl 
carrot, onion, celery, and a faggot of parsley. For thi 
dish, the feet of bacon hogs are best, and they will requir 
about four hours gentle boiling. When done, drain then 
cut them into halves, and remove the large bones ; pree 
them into shape with the hands, and set them in a co< 
place. When cold, season the pieces with pepper, an 
salt if required ; rub them over with a brush dipped i 
clarified butter ; then roll them in bread-crumbs, and pi 
these on to them with the blade of a wide knife ; bro 
them on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning them frc 
quently until they are warmed through. Serve thei 
with a piquant sauce. 

308 ^^r Figs' Feet may be Pickled and Boiled, an 
eaten cold as a breakfast, luncheon, or supper relish ; < 
may be added fresh to Stews, of Babbit, Fowl, &c. 

309 1^^ Figs* Fettitoes is a dish consisting of th 
Feet and Internal parts of small pigs. These may I 
Stewed: — ^Put them on with a sufficient quantity of watc 
or broth ; add a small onion or two, if approved ; als< 
four or five leaves of sage, chopped small. When th 
heai't, liver, and lights are tender, take them out, an 



SECONDARY COOKERY- 79 

chop them fine, let the feet simmer the while ; they will 
take from half to three-quarters of an hour to do. Season 
the mince with salt, nutmeg, and a little pepper, half an 
ounce of butter, a table-spoonful or two of thick cream, 
and a tea-spoonful of arrow-root, or flour ; return it to 
the saucepan, in which the feet are ; let it boil up, shaking 
it one way. Split the feet, lay them round the mince ; 
serve with toasted sippets, and garnish with mashed 
potatoes. 

310 1^^ Sheep^s and Lamhs^ Feet may be Braised, the 
same as Calves* Feet. 

311 1^^ Or may be Boiled, and served plainly, and 
eaten with vinegar and mustard. 

312 1^" Or may be added to Stews of Babbits, Poultry, 
Game, &c. 

313 8§^ Or may be Boiled until the bones can be 
easily taken out of them, but they must not be removed ; 
then Fried in a light batter to a delicate brown, and served 
with a garnish of 'fried parsley. 

There are three things which a good wife should resemble, and yet those three 
things she should not resemble. She should be like a town clock— keep time and 
r^arity. She should not be like a town clock— speak so loud that all the town 
mfty hear her. She should be like a snail — prudent, and keep Avithiu her owii house. 
She should not be lilce a snail— cany all she has upon her back. She should be like 
an echo— speak when spoken to. She should not be Uke an echo — determined always 
to have the last word. 

Various Uses of Tails y and other Farts.. 

Ox Tails make an excellent Stew: — Take three tails, 

divide them at the joints, or, if sawed through the bones, 

J.. , all the better extract will be obtained; place 

them in a saucepan, and cover them with water ; 

set them upon the fire to stew gently, and clear 
the Bcum as it rises; when it boils, put in a little salt, 
half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and half that quantity 
of cayenne ; eight or ten cloves stuck in two small onions 
two large or four small carrots, and a good sized bunch 
of parsley* Let it stew very gently, until the meat is 
tender, which will take three hours; then strain the 



80 THE FAMILY 8AVE-AXL : 

gravy from the meat, thicken it, and serve with the tailiS 
in a tureen. When the gravy has been thickened . the 
vegetables may be returned to it or not, according to taste^ 
and it may be sent to table, poured over the tails, or in a 
separate tureen. 

315 Ife^ Or, they may be Baked with chopped onions 
and herbs ; each piece should be carefully rolled in flour, 
and set in a pan, with some of the onions and seasoning; 
add a pint of water ; bake three hours ; carefully skim 
off the fat, and serve. 

316 1^^ Or may be Stewed by another process :-^-Cut 
a Tail into pieces, and blanch it in boiling water ;* put it 
into fresh water, and parboil it ; then make a sauce with 
a spoonful of flour and butter, moistening it in a little 
of the liquor in which the tail was boiled; put into it 
the pieces of the tail, with a dozen whole onions from 
which the outer skin has been taken ; add a glass of white 
wine, a bunch of parslfey and chibbols, a clove of garlic, 
a laurel leaf, and some basil and thyme, two cloves, salt, 
and pepper; let them stew gently until the meat and 
onions are done, taking care to skim well. Put into the 
sauce an anchovy cut, a tea-spoonful of whole capers; 
place the pieces of the tail in the middle of the dish, 
and put the onions round and over them ; pour the strained 
sauce over it. Grarnish with bits of fried or toasted bread. 
Of course the mixture of herbs mentioned above may be 
modified, according to taste or convenience ; two bay-leaves 
may be substituted for a laurel leaf, &c. 

317 ^^ Ox Tails are employed for Ox-tail Soup, and 
Calves^ Tails for Chesterfield Soup, to which refer. 

313 1^" Calves* Tails may be Stewed: — Clean sai^ 
blanch them, the same as ox-tails, divide them at tbe 
joints, and brown them in butter, 0r other &ie £[it. Drain, 
and stew them in good stock, seasoned with pardby, 
onions, and a bay-leaf. AddgEdcm peas, or SMiilmuflb-. 
rooms ; .fikim .and Jierve. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 81 

319 Jf^ A little Bacon, cut into slices, may be added ; 
some Suet DtimpUngs, very small, previously boiled. 

The stew may be Baked; it will require about an hour 
and a half. Six calves' tails make a good dish. 

320 i@" A tail or two is very good added to stews 
of anj kind, and cold Fowl, Rahhit, &c., may bo warmed 
aud sent to table in the stew of calves' tails. 

321 1^^ Calves' Tails 'makes a very nice Curry. 

322 1^" Calves^ Udders form the basis of a great 
variety of Forcemeats. The method of prepaiing them 
is, to bind .them round with twine in the form of a 
sausage, to prevent them falling to pieces, then boil 
them in stock. When they are quite soft, they 
are taken out, and allowed to get cool. The outside 
should then« be pared off with a knife, cut into small 
pieces, and pounded in a mortar ; it should then be 
rubbed through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and 
allowed to get quite firm and cool before using. 

Thhis is nothing so nnwise as to trouble ourselves about possibilities. We may 
»T a thoQSond plans, waste time in revohing consequent events, and undergo a 
MmUr of imaginary troubles, and after all such troubles never occur, and our 
Ptosare swept away like chaff before the wind. 

A very nice Stew of Ox Palates. 

The Palates must be well cleaned, and boiled until 
the upper skin will come off easily ; they should then 

•a^. be cut either into long fillets or square pieces. 

They should then be stewed very slowly in 

good thick gravy, and seasoned with cayenne, 

^nced eschalot or onion, and a large spoonful of catchup ; 

^r the pickle of walnuts, mushrooms, or onions. 

324 ^^ Palates are excellent for breakfast or supper, 
cither served hot, or pickled, and eaten cold. 

^25 f^ They may be parboiled, skinned, and' cut 
into strips ; first Fry an onion in butter, then add the 
P^tes and a bunch of sweet herbs ; moisten then with 
s^J^ie well-seasoned stock, and when sufficiently done, 
^ a little laustard. 



82 THE FAMll.ir SAVE-ALL : 

326 ^^ Or, after having prepared them, and ci 
them into pieces, put them in a Fickle of lukewar 
vinegar, salt, pepper, an eschalot, and two bay-leave 
When they have soaked in this mixture for about a 
hour, take them out, and Fry them to a good colon 
and serve them with crisped parsley. 

327 1^^ Or, they may be served with a good Cun 
Sauce, Just before sending tcf table, make the cun 
quite hot, and dish it up with boiled rice. 

I 

A YOUNO Irish servant, trayeUing on board a steamer, had the ill-luck to U 
the "recommendation" which had been given her on leaving her last place. S 
brought, ho«vever, the accompanying ticket, some one had written for her/ a 
which she presented when applying for a situation : — ** This is to certify tt 
Kathleen O'Brian had a good character when she left Albany, but she but 
toon a/teruHwdsJ" 

A very nice Stew of Palates and Sweetbreads. 

Parboil and skin the Palates, as before; parboil tl 
Sweetbreads with them ; cut the palates, and if tl 
_-.. , sweetbreads are large, cut them in two the loi 
way ; dust them with flour, and fry them 
a light brown in butter ; then stew them 
a portion of the liquor in which they were boile 
Brown a piece of butter with flour ; add it, with 
little cayenne, salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and nutme 
and a glass of white wine. A little before serving, s 
in a spoonful of vinegar, pr a squeeze of lemon. 

a lazt, over-fed lad, returning firom dinner to his work, one day, was a» 
by his master "if he had no other motion than that I" "Yes," replied theyos 
"but iVs slower J" 

A very Savoury and Economical Dish, commonly 

called ^^ Baked Faggots^'^ 

Pkocure Pig's Fry, wash it, and set it upon the f 

in a saucepan, with just sufficient water to cover 

-y. . Add a bunch of sage, and four or &vq onion 

boil ten minutes : take out the meat, and c 

* in slices ; then take out the sage and onioi 

and chop it all finely together ; season with pepper ai 

salt; cut the caul in pieces, and make into balls vrii 



SECOXDAKY COOKEUY. 83 

the meat, about the size of an ordinary teacup ; place 

them on a tin, and bake in an ordinary oven. Preserve 

the water the meat was boiled in, and boil it down to 

a sufficient quantity to serve as gravy. Plenty of hot 

' potatoes with* these afford a very acceptable dish for a 

iamily of hearty children ; and depend upon it, when 

the savoury odour announces that dinner is ready, 

there will be no difficulty in getting them in from the 

playground. 

yVs may arise in the morning with oar hearts light and our sjiirits free, and before 
evening comes — nay, in one short hour, circumstances may occur which shall call for 
^be exercise of no ordinary share ofn?race ; and unless we are on oar guard, plunge 
^ into goilt, and shame, and distress. > In many a dismal story of private life we 
flxul tliat the sin which threw its chill withering shade over all succeeding' years — 
&x»m t^hich there was no refuge but through the darkness of the grave — was com- 
^^t:ted witho^ premeditation^ without design, simply by being " off* one's guard.'* 
t-t, ta possible one hour to shudder at the thought of sin, and before that hoar has 
PfiiBjitd away, to be the thing you shudder at. 

An excellent Dinner of LarnVs or Pig's Fry. 

Clean and parboil the lights, liver, sweetbread, and 

I^oart ; slice, dredge with flour, season with pepper, 

---. cayenne, and salt, and Fry (with chopped onion 

and sage, if of pigs) in butter or dripping, 

with a bit of bacon. The parboiling will take 

siViout ten minutes, and some persons omit the Lamb's 

SAiveetbread from this part of the process. Before 

ft^ing, dip the pieces into a batter made of an egg 

^>€aten- well with a tea-spoonful of flour, half a wine- 

glassfiil of either milk or water, and a little salt ai^d . 

pepper. A few chopped onions or mushrooms are very 

nice. 

331 1^^ Fi(fs Chitterlings fried with onions are very 
good. After cleaning, they should be allowed to simmer 
m a saucepan in salt and water, until tender. Drain 
and fiy as above. 

h may |)e said of hnsbands as the woman said of hers, who had censured h?r, 
* «n old maid who reproached her for marrying him. " To be sure, he is no^ 
^ Sood a husband as he ought ,to be, but he's a powerful sight belter tlmrt 



84 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

Excellent Black or White Puddings. 

When about to have a pig killed, previously boil 
five pints of Grits in milk, or water, until quite soft. 
_. While the pig is being killed, save two quarts 
of the blood, throw a little salt into it while 
wann, and stir until it gets cold. When the 
Grits are nearly cold, put with them a good proportion 
of the inner fat of the pig, cut into pieces the size 
of a small nutmeg ; season with pepper, salt, cloves, 
and mace, and also parsley, sweet marjoram, winter 
savory, pennyroyal, and leeks, all finely minced. Mix 
them with the grits and fat, and add a sufficiency of 
the Blood to make it of a dark colour. The skins 
must be well washed, and when perfectly cleansed, laid 
in salt and water for several hours. To fill them, tie 
one end, and turn them inside out ; fill them about 
three parts full, and, tie them of equal lengths or rounds ; 
put them into hot water, and when they have boiled 
five minutes, take them out and prick them in several 
places with a large needle ; then boil them slowly from 
half an hour to an hour, according to size. Hang them 
up to cool and dry. 

333 jj^p" Rice may be used instead of grits ; and 
four Eggs, well beaten and strained, may be added to 
the above quantity, and the whole may be boiled in pvdding 
basins or cloths, floured, instead of skins. Crumbs of bread 
may be mixed with the grits, and in this any pieces of stale 
brpad may be used. These puddings may be kept 
cold, and when used be warmed whole in a Dutch oven, 
or be cut into slices, and broiled upon a gridiron, or 
may be fried, 

334 S^ The blood of Calves, Lambs, and Sheep, 
may be used in the same manner. 

335 ^^ White Puddings may be made in precisely 
the same way as Black, by omitting the blood and sub- 
stituting the White of Eggs. Or the following filling 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 85 

may be preferred : — Mix half a pound of blanched almonds, 
each cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated 
bready two pounds of finest suet, a pound of currants, 
some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a 
quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two 
^ggs, a little orange-flower water, a little fine Lisbon 
sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half- 
fill the skins. To know whether they are seasoned to 
liking, warm a little of the filling in a pannikin, and 
t^aste. Prick them, as in the previous case, and boil in 
i3ailk and water. These are very delicious. 

"Jr 1 am not at home to-night at ten o'clock," said a husband to his better 
and larger half, " don't wait for me." " I won't, my dear," replied the lady, signifl- 
cantly. And what do you think she did? At ten o'clock precisely, she slipped' 
on her bonnet, and went for him, and gave him a* bit of her mind before a largo 
company. 

^ nice Pudding from Cold Calfs or Sheep* s Brain 

and Tongue, 

Boll out the paste for the pudding ; then put a 
layer of thin slices of Tongue on the bottom, then of 

-J.. . Brain ; repeat ; season each layer with salt, 
pepper, parsley, and a little chopped onions ; 

^^ continue until full ; then mix a tea-spoonful 
of flour with a gill and a half of milk, or water, and 
pour in ; close the pudding and boil one hour. Two 
boiled eggs, hard-boiled, and cut in slices, would improve, 
it; and a little gherkin, chopped fine, will vary the 
flavour. 

336 l^g" Puddings may also be made of Oa?, Sheep's, 
I^mb^s, and Pig^s Brains and Tongues in the same 
manner. Also cold Sheep^s Head, Tongue, and Trotters, 
^hich will be improved by the addition of sliced Pickled 
Walnuts. 

^^^ Ki^ Puddings are preferable when hoiUd in a 
^^^^ or dish, for then the paste retains all the nutriment of 
*^ meat, which is otherwise liable to escape. A rather 

E 2 



86 THE FAMILY SAYE-ATL : 

shallow dish is better than a basin when ample time 
cannot be allowed for boiling. 

Sm George Beaumont once met Qninn at a small dinner-part) There was s 
deUdons pudding, which the master of the house, pushing th dish towards 
Quinn, begged him to taste. A gentleman by his side took the lish first, and 
helped himself to a large piece of it " Pray," said Quinn,' loolL*^* first at the 
gentleman's plate, and then at the dish, "vfUch is the puddingT* 

A Cheap and Savoury Herb Pudding. 

Of Spinach^ Beets, Parsley, and Leeks, take each a 

handful ; wash them^ and give them a scald in boiling 

__. - water ; then shred them very fine. Have ready 

a quart of groats steeped in warm water half 

an hour, and a pound of hog's lard, cut into 

little bits ; three large onions chopped small, aud three 

sage leaves, crumbled very fine ; put in a little salt, 

mix all well together, and tie it closely in a cloth. It 

will require to be taken up while boiling, to slacken the 

string a little; and while doing so, the further time 

required to complete the boiling may be judged of. 

Leslie dined one day with Lamb at a friend's house. Returning to town in the 
stage coach, which was filled with the returning guests, they stopped for a minute 
or two at Kentish Town. A woman stepped towards the door and said, "Are you 
ftill inside ?" Upon which Lamb put his head through the window and said, " I am 
quite f(ill inside; that last puce of pudding at Mr. Qillam's did the business for me r* 

A cheap Pudding, to accompany a Goose, and modify 

its richness. 

Half a pound of Bread, soaked in a little boiling 

milk, and mashed to a paste ; when cold, add two or 

. three eggs, a little salt, pepper, marjoram, and 

thyme, a spoonful of oatmeal, a good handful 

of suet (which, however, may be omitted), and 

an onion chopped fine. Spread it in a dripping-pan, and 

bake it under the goose. Very serviceable where ther^ 

is a large family, and only one Goose among them. 

An awkward man, attempting to carre a goose, dropped it on the floor. " There* 
now r' exclaimed his wife, " we've lost our dinner." " Oh no, my dear !" answered 
he, "ifs safe, / Aare got my foo{ on it I" 






SECONDARY COOKERY. 87 

A very Savoury Pudding from Fragments of Bread 
and Scraps of Cold Meat 

Collect pieces of Stale Bread, and select the crumb 

(the crust may also be used, if previously soaked) ; steep 

~. . this in warm milk, let it stand till well softened, 

then strain gS the milk ; beat up the yolk of an 

egg, mix it with the bread, and also a bit of butter; 

put it into a saucepan, and boil until it becomes stiff; let 

it cool, and then add some chopped parsley, thyme, pepper, 

and salt; beat up two eggs; mince about one pound of 

*ny cold meat, and add all together. Boil in a basin for 

three hours, and when served, pour a good gravy over it. 

341 J^^ It is a great folly for parents to insist upon 

children eating bits of bread, and other fragments of their 

Weals, under the idea that it is wasteful not to eat the 

whole of what has been served to them to eat. It is,. 

indeed, waste to make children eat too much, sowing the 

seeds of diseases, and leading to habits of gluttony. By 

receipts of the nature contained in our Save-all, not a 

scrap of anything nourishing need be lost. 

" JoBiTKT," said a doting mother to her son, who was evidently eating immoderately, 
"cin you eat that large piece of pudding with impunity." "I don't know, 'ma,'" 
quoth young hopeful, "but / know I can with a ipoont* 

A Nice Pudding of Samage Meat, Cold Pork^ Apples,, 

and Onions. 

Line a pudding-basin with some pudding paste in the 
usual way ; place at the bottom a layer of slices of Apples, 
w* X half an inch in thickness ; then a layer (fT 
Sausage-meat, or Cold Fork cut small and sea- 
soned ; then a layer of sliced onions ; then apples, 
ineat, and onions alternately, until the basin is full ; season 
With pepper and salt between each layer ; cover with paste ; 
tie in a cloth, and boil. Time, according to size. 

A TOTOo lady, when invited to partake of some pudding, replied, "No; many 
^"•tt, dear madani ; by no manner -of means ; I have already indulged the clamorous 
^ of a craving appetite, until a manifest sense of internal fiUness admonishea 
"y iftiy, and bids me tWnk how wrong it is to waist,'* 



,. . of Cay * , c\ea»e*^ 

*!t*e-^r*'?t??^X-"^-'" , Bread, ^f-^ 

*tSS^ *«C«^ »»* "^^ ofPi*"*^"-^ , Bread, «^^' 

^" *«o potto^* L^ ?^«**^ keep t^« ^ t saviee'^"^ 

n Toast *^'^^Y^el,3-^^r,;^!t off -«^,^ «»^ 

of Stat* T^ ^^^ ^, of^^ -o^-f ;S«r ; ^^^^^o^ *""!' 

s'.'^^^'"'"! o? ««et f ;J„ teaspoon^ V^pg^^-1^ ^ ^„ 

state. *• *» i» ll^e »Vetxx o^ ^ ^ jAinO ^J ^ * 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 89 

and make it into a thick batter, with milk and two eggs. 
Lay some seasoned meat in a dish, then some 
batter, and over the last layer put the remainder 
of the batter. Bake until nicely brown. 

-A. CLERGYMAN, happenin(^ to get wet, was standing before the session-room fire 
*9 <iJ*y his clothes, and when his colleague came in, he asked him to preacli for 
liitti as he was very wet. " No, sir, I thank you," was the prompt reply; *' preacli 
yourself— you will be dry enough in the pulpit." 

A Savoury or Sweet Dripping Pudding, 

Six ounces of Dripping to twelve ounces of flour, 

^alf the dripping to be well rubbed into the flour, with 

Rnt * little salt ; then, with water, work into a stiff* 

paste ; roll it out thin, and add the remainder 

^^ of the dripping, by spreading it thinly over the 

pa^, then fold it over, and roll out again; repeat the 

process, and then work into a round pudding ; put it into 

a basin, set it in boiling water, and continue to boil for 

"two hours. 

348 1^^ This* may be eaten with Savoury Gi^avy ; or 
'^ a sweet pudding, with Jam, Treacle, or sugar. It is 
%ht and inexpensive for a family of children. 

WHBr, in a case of doubtful morality, you feel disposed to ask, " Is there any 
r**^ in ddng this?" pray answer it by asking yourself another, "Is there any 
°*^\xL letting it alone?" 

Excellent and Economical Paddings from Cold or 

other Carrots^ 8fc. 

Skate, or pound in a mortar, the red part of two 
^*^ boiled Carrots, and grate also some bread, or pound 

J. . a biscuit ; take two ounces of melted butter, the 

^ same quantity* of sugar, a table-spoonful of mar- 
malade, or a bit of orange-peel minced ; half a 
^poonftd of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs ; 
^ ail well together; bake it in a dish lined with puff* 
P«»8te. 

350 Jgr Or an excellent Plum Pudding may be madie 



90 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

from CaiTQts prepared as above, adding the ot 
dients as for plum puddings. 

Bemts asked Jemima a few days since if she had seen her re^ 
" My vegetable friend ! -who's that ? " Why, the young man I i 
yesterday, who has carrotty hair, reddish whiskers, a turn-up nose, 
caperi" 

An Excellent Family Padding of Cold Poto 

Eggs, S^c. 

Having collected the Cold Potatoes left for t^ 
days, bruise them through a colander with 
Hint SP^^^5 th^n beat up eggs with a pin 
milk, and stir in the potatoes, — the 
of eggs to potatoes should be four eg 
large or twelve middle-sized potatoes ; sugar s 
to taste ; bake half an hour. A little Scotch J 
or any kind of jam or preserve may be used ai 
ing; or the pudding may be made a savoury 
oiiten with gravy. This is an economical dish, v 
is a family of children ; but it will be found 
ceptable to " children of larger growth," and i 
dish for invalids and elderly persons. 

The proof of a pudding is in the eating ; the proof of a wo' 
the padding ; and the proof of a man is in being able to appreciai 

A P^ddijig for Hearty Appetii 

Take a pint of whole Oatmeal, steep it in » 

milk over night ; in the morning, take half a 

—.. . suet, shred fine, and mix with tl 
Hint / 

milk, some grated nutmeg, and a 

the yojks and whites of thi*ee egg? 

pound of currants, a quarter of a pound o 

much sugar as will sweeten it ; stir weJ 

very close, and boil two hours. Melted 

FON is the most conservative element in society, and oi 
encouraged by all lawful means. People never plot iniscl 
Laughter is an enemy to malice, a fool to scandal, and a f 
promotes good temper, enlivens the heart, unci brightens t 
fT/tea ire can. 



SECOXDAUY COOKEttV. 91 

A very nice and cheap Dish — quite a favourite with 

the Boys and Girls, 

Boil one pound of good Rice (after being well washed) 

. m plenty of water ; when nicely soft, add one ounce of 

~. . butter, and stir it in ; then add one table-spoonful 

of sugar. The rice should not be boiled in more 

water than it will absorb. Peel and slice six 

apples, take out the core and pips ; put them in a stew-pan 

"with six slices of beet-root, and a pint of water ; stew until 

it is tender and mash them together, with a little butter 

m 

*Did sugar. The beet-root is to give a rich pink colour to 
*lie apples, and improve the flavour. When done, place 
*Jie rice on a dish ; form a hole in the midst of it, in which 
place the mashed apple ; have ready for sauce a little cream, 
"Utter, and sugar ; pour it over the rice, and serve. 

^ Wbt does the Cook make more noise tlian the bell ? Because one makes a din^ 
out tbe other a dinner I 

Cftpital Dumplings for a Family of Young Ones. 

A POUND of Flour, a spoonful of Yeast, and a little salt. 
Make this into a light paste, with warm water ; let it lie 
nearly an hour ; make it into balls, and put them 
into little nets or cloths. When the water boils, 
throw them in ; twenty minutes will boil them, 
Keep them from the bottom of the pan, or they will be 
lieavy. Serve with hot milk and sugar for sauce ; or a 
^ttle seasoned stock ; or a gravy made by stewing down 
^nes, and seasoned to liking. 

Hn» Speckles says, " The best vegetable pill is an appU dumpling; for curing a 
PUmring at the stomach, it may be relied upon." 

Snow Pancakes and Puddings. The cost of Eggs 
saved in the dearest seasdn. 

It is not generally known that Snow is a good substitute 
fcr eggs, in both puddings and pancakes. Two table- 



92 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

spoonsful may be taken as the equivalent of an egg. Take 

^. . it from a clean spot, and the sooner it is used after 

it is taken in-doors the better. It is to be beaten 

in, just as eggs are, and should be handled as little 

as possible. As eggs are dear in the season of snow^ it is a 

help to economy to know the above. It is equivalent to a 

supply of fresh eggs, without the yoke of having to pay 

for them ! 

356 S^* Fresh Small Beer, or Bottled Malt LiquorSy 
serve, also, instead of Eggs. 

357 l^§* Powdered Ice will answer as well as Snow^ 
when the latter cannot be obtained. 

** You can do anything If you will only have patience/' said an old uncle, who bad 
made a fortune, to a nephew who had nearly spent one. " Water may be carried in a 
sieve, if ypu can only wait." " How long ?" asked the petulant ^>enAthTift, who wbi 
impatient for the old man's obituary. His uncle coolly replied, " TiU it fretzut* 

A very nice Pudding^ made from Stale Muffins. 

Having some Stale Muffins^ make a pudding of them 

in the following manner. Put them into a pot of boiling 

p.. , water, and let them boil five minutes ; not more, 

or they will be quite soddened ; then take them 

up, and pull them in halves. They must not be 

cut, or they will become close and heavy. Pour over Ihe 

halves of the muffins some sweet sauce previously prepared, 

some apricot jam, or any other kind of preserve.^ With a 

knife, put the muffins together again, and spread some oi 

the same kind of preserve on the top of each ; over that, 

pour some more sweet sauce, and serve. 

A COOK, famed for her frequent failures in attempting hard words, being about tc 
purchase a. saucepan, asked for one lined with e/nanue/, as she preferred it foi 
cooking. 

An Excellent Substitute for Pastry for the Dyspeptic. 

« 

Boil a tea-cupful of Sa{io as thick as it can be made to 

boil, without burning; put about five spoonfuls into a 

__. , . quart basin ; then a layer of baked fruit of any 

sort, sweetened, and fill the basin to the brhn 

with alternate layers of fruit and sago. Set in a 



SECONDARY COOKEBY. 93 

<^l place for a little time, and it will become solid. It 

^ best when made shortly after breakfast, and allowed to 

stand till wanted, to warm either in an oven, over boiling 

^ater, or before the fire, with a plate turned over it, for 

^nner. The sago boils best when soaked in cold wg,ter 

ft>r a few hours before using. Rice may be used in the 

Same way. 

360 8^ Eaten with Mock Cream made as follows, it 
is delicious : — Pour half a pint of boiling milk on a tea- 
spoonful of arrow-root, well mixed with a small quantity 
of the milk ; stir the mixture well ; and have the white 
of an egg well beaten, and when about half cold, add it, 
axid place 4he whole over a slow fire until it nearly boils ; 
tlien strain for use. 

£ooNOMT is the art of drawing in as much as one can ; but it was never intended 
tlutt yoong ladies should go so far in " drawing in," under the pretence of avoiding 



A delicate Pudding of the Petals of Primroses, 

Take of the Petals of Primroses chopped fine, a quart 

sMisinftil ; flour, half a pound ; suet, quarter of a pound ; 

-». . a little salt ; and mix with water into a 

padding. Boil, and serve with melted butter 

and sugar. 

^'Is there much water in the cistern, Biddy?" inquired a gentleman of an Irish 
tgxt, as she came from the kitchen. ** It's fall on the bottom, sir, but tbert^t-nonc 
att on tha topr* 



n Excellent Substitute for Plum Ptdding^ at small 

JExpense, 

Take four ounces of each of the following ingredients : 

^net, flour, currants, raisins, and bread-crumbs; two 

--. . table-spoonsful of treacle» and half a pint of 

milk; mix them well together, and boil in a 

mould for three hours. Serve with wine, or 

'brandy sauce. 

A osMTLncAN dining at an hotel where sen'ants were few and tar betiMen, 
*«lMpatched a lad among them for a plate of padding. After a long time the lad 
^Mnmed, and, placing it before the hungry gentleman, was asked : ** Are you tlie 

" who took my plate for this pudding?" "Yes sir." "Bless me," resumed the 
wit, **hom fou ham grown/** 



94 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

To send Boiled Bice to the Table in the Finest 

Condition, 

Soak it for «eveii hours in cold water, to which a little 

salt has been added. Have a stewpan ready, containing 

•,. . boiling water, into which put the soaked rice, 

and boil it briskly for ten minutes. Then pour 

it into a colander, set it by the fire to drain, and 

serve it up. The grains will be separate, and very large. 

364 1^^ Bice should be prepai^ed for Puddings in this 

way. 

Be attentive to your neighbour at the dinner-table; pass him what he requires; 
and if he should unwittingly make an ill-natured remark, pau that alto. 

An Excellent and Economical Flavouring for 
PuddingSy Custards, 8fc, 

When the Hawthorn is in blossom, gather the buds, 

which are like little white peas, and put them into 

-_. , wine-bottles ; let each bottle be three parts 

full, and then fill it with brandy, and seal. It 

will be ready for use in two months, and supply 

a delightful flavouring of which one or two tea-spoonsful 

will suflSice for a pudding. 

Whkn a newly-married woman was brought to the house of her husband, she was 
compelled, by the Athenian law, to carry with her a frying-pan^ in token of good, 
housewifery. 

Methods of Be^serving Sweets and other Table Delicacies. 

It is often a matter of great convenience as well as 

economy, to give a new and presentable form to the 

_-. remains of Sweet Dishes which have already 

appeared upon the table ; especially because there 

is frequently a large amount of them left 

unconsumed after parties. 

367 1^^ Calfs Feet Jelly and good Blanc-mange are 
excellent when melted and mixed together, whether in 
equal or unequal proportions. They should be heated 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 95 

only sufficient to liquify them, or the acid of the jelly 
may cardie the blanc-mange. Four this last, when melted, 
into a deep earthen bowl, and add the jelly to it in small 
portions, whisking them briskly together as it is thrown 
in. A small quantity of prepared cochineal, which may 
be procured of a chemist, will serve to improve or to vary 
the colour when required. 

368 t^r Many kinds of Creams and Custards may be 
blended advantageously with the blanc-mange, after a 
little additional isinglass has been dissolved in it, to give 
sufficient firmness to the whole. It must be observed 
that either jelly or blanc-mange must be as nearly cold 
as it will become without thickening and beginning to 
set, before it is used for this receipt. 

369 ij^gr A sort of marbled mass is' sometimes made 
by shaking together in a mould remnants of various 
coloured Blanc^fnanges cut nearly of the same size, and 
tiien filling it up with a clear jelly. 

370 DS^ When a small part only of an open Tart has 
l)een eaten, divide the remainder equally into triangular 
slices, place them at regular intervals round a dish, and 
tiien fill the intermediate spaces, and cover the tart entirely 
^^th a slightly-sweetened and well-drained whipped cream. 

** Ah, Mr. Simiddns, we have not chain enough for onr company," said an extra- 
^viq;ant wife to a frngal husband. ** Plenty of chairs, dodqr* but a Hitk too mudi 
-^sumpanp,** replied Mr. Simpkina, with a knowing wiidE. 

A nice way of Warming and Serving Cold Plum 

Pudding, 

Cut the pudding into thin slices, and fiy them in Butter, 

^rj, also, some Fritters, and pile them in the centre of the 

—. . dish, placing the slices of pudding around on 

the outside. Powder all with lump sugar, 

and serve with pudding sauce in a tureen. 

Av old gentleman, who had never before seen ffaiger-glaaKa, and who felt caUed 
'VpQD to take everything set before him, drank off the contents of his vessel, when 
Hie batter pot down another; but the laird tamed to him saying, ** Na, na, Joim, 
^m/or Ma rnair could waUrT* 



96 THE PAMILT SAVE-ALL : 

To Serve Cold Rice Pudding. 

Remove the baked coating of the pudding, and spread 

the remainder nicely upon a dish. Over the pudding 

__. pour a custard, and add a few lumps of jelly or 

preserved fruit. 
372 ^ 

Db. Aldkich, the mosical composer, gave the following rhymed reasons for 
dtting after dmiier: — 

Good wine; a fkriend; or being dry 
Or lest we should be, by-and«bye; 
Or, any oOier reason v>hy. 

A nice way to Serve the Remains of an Apple Tart* 

Cut the crust into triangular pieces, and arrange them 

around the sides of a china bowl. Place the fruit next 

__. to the pieces of crust; and pour a nice custard 

into the centre. Should the fruit be deficient, 

roast or bake a few apples, and place in the centre. 

A GENTLEMAN calling onc morning on a female friend, was answered by the page 
that she was not at home. " Thank you, give her thts," said he, handix^f a card, snA 
giving the boy a sixpence. "Yes," said the lad, thrown off his guard by the 
unezpeeted gift, *'I will give it to her whOt you teaU.*' 

To secure a Constant supply of Savoury and Nutria 
tious Stocky as a Rase for nearly all Gravies and 
. Soups, simply from Scraps. 

To accomplish this, the first thing to do is, to set up a 
good iron ^^ Stock-pot/' which may be obtained from any 
furnishing ironmonger. The little outlay at first 
will soon be compensated by the daily contributions 

"•* of the Stock-pot to the wants of the family ; it 
will last for years, and should never be out of use. The 
Stock-pot should, in fact, be regarded as the principal 
SAVE-ALL, the magic reservoir, as inexhaustible as the 
conjuror's* bottle, and producing as wonderftil a variety of 
compounds. 

Before describing what may come out of the stock-pot, 
it la obviously necessary to say what should be put into it. 
And the answer is, that there is nothing in the shape of Scraps 



SECONDAKY COOKERY. 97 

of meat and hone, that should not, unless otherwise employed, 
h thrown into the stock-pot. For the benefit of the stock- 
pot, horns should not he picked; the stock-pot will clean 
them most effectively, and extract abundant nourishment 
from their internal parts. In preparing joints of meat 
for the table, put the trimmings into the Stock-pot, Ham, 
^^^f. Veal, Mutton, Lamh, Pork, Bits and Bones of Foultrt/, 
Game, in fact, the bones or remains of any klsd of meats 
should go into the stock-pot. Egg-shells should be put 
1^ ; they tend to clarify the stock. Crusts of dry Bread 
°^fty be thrown in ; they gather the soum, which should 
"® taken off three or four times a day. Cold Carrots and 
^dr snips, or the remains of Chdon sauce or gravy; the 
outside stems of Celery, thoroughly cleaned and cut into 
snaall pieces; and all similar substances, should invariably 
go into the Stock-pot, which should always be kept sim- 
J^ering by the fire, the exhausted bones, &c., being removed 
*lay by day, as ^e stock is drawn off. 

^e Stock-pot mis managed will eUways he redtdy to supply 

Ihe groundwork of almost all kinds of gravies and soups, 

• -^ basin of soup, with the addition of a little water, 

**^ckening, and a sprinkling of herbs, may be knocked 

^P at a moment's notice. Hashes, meat pies, savoury 

Puddings, and all gravies sent to the table may be enriched 

thereby. When Stock is alluded to in the receipts given 

]^ this volume, the liquor from the stock-pot is that which 

^ indicated. 

Every furnishing ironmonger knows what a Stock-pot 
^®» but the purchaser should observe that the tap should 
^ i*aised a little from the bottom, in order that the stock 
'^^y be drawn off without the sediment. The hones and 
'"^At^e thcU come from the stock-pot mil serve for the pig-tuh ; 
^^ suffice for dogs and cats, where such are kept, without 
^'isting better food upon them. 

^J^^ thieving pr(q>ensitie8 of "the cat** are well known. How does "the cat" 
^P*>trive to open the cheffonier ? How is it, that after drinking our gin, she never 
^^Qs intoxi<^ited? Whatever can the cat do with tea? And iMw^vhenkhe breaks 
^ IfhU, does she manage to pick up the pieces/ 



98 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

Capital Stock for Gravy and Sauces, from a 

Ham Bone, 

When a Ham has been cut to the bone, cut off all the 

bits of meat that are not rusty, whether fat or lean, throw 

__. the rusty pieces into the pig-tub, or to the fowls, 

break the bone in pieces, beat the meat with a 

rolling-pin, and put the whole into a saucepan 

with a quarter of a pint of broth or gravy; then cover 

it, and stew gently, occasionally stirring it well, to prevent 

its sticking to the bottom. Then strain ojff the stock, 

and bottle down in old pickle bottles, to improve gravies 

or sauces of any description. This is essentially a good 

" extract of ham " cheaply obtained. 

As lately a sage on a fine ham was repasting 

(Thongh for breakfiist too savoury I opine), 
He exdidmed to a friend, who sat silent and fiuting, 

** What a breakfast of learning is mine 1" 
** A breakfiut of learning!" with wonder he cried, 

And laugh'd, for he thought him mistaken; 
" Why, wlut is it else ?" the sage quickly replied, 

*<When I'm making large ezUracU from BaamV* 

To make a very relishahle Soup without Meat. 

Take two carrots, two turnips, one onion, the trlnmiing 

of a head of celery, cut into small slices and pieces, and 

__. , fry with about half an ounce of butter. Let 

them be fried until they are quite dry, taking 

**• care that they do not burn. When in this state, 
pour from a pint and a half to a quart of boiling water 
into the frying-pan on them ; then pour all together 
into a saucepan, and boil for three or four hours, adding 
water to keep up the quantity, as it boils away. Capital 
for invalids, or as a warmer at bed-time for people with 
bad colds. 

A LADT was engaged in domestic afliairs, and the servant, who was a Catholic, when 
the door-bell was rung, was requested by her mistress to say that she was not at 
home. " Yes, ma'am," said the servant ; and after she had done as she was bid, she 
retamed to her mistress and inquired, "When I go to thepraste, «Aa///c<m/eMiAaf 
at my /te, nuCamt or thoUl I say it was yourst" 

Green Pea Soup without Meat, 
If the peas are good, this will be as nice a vegetable 



f 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 99 

soup as need be sent to table. Take a quart of young 
Crreen Peas, and divide half a pint from them. 
Put them on in boiling water; boil until tender, 
and then pour off the water, and set it by to 
Hk^fcike the soup with. Put the peas into a mortar, and 
poi^nd them to a mash; then put them back into the water 
tt^^ peas were boiled in; stir all well together, and then 
niT> it through a hair sieve, or tammy. Boil the half-pint 
0^ peas, separated from the others, and when done, turn 
tta^m into the soup, and serve hot. 

S78 JtS^ The same may be made with the liquor in 
^^Ixich Ccdfa Head, Calfs Feet, or Tails, or joints of Veal, 
^^'^dUon, &c., have been boiled. 



fidlowing adyertisement lately appeared in a Jersey print :—** To be sold by 
PJ^i^rate contract, a beautiful rooster monkey, a parrot, two poodles, and a tortoise- 
''^^11 cat, the property of a lady jtat married^ who has no further use for them." 

Pea^leaf Sotq), an inexpensive rarity^ when Green 

Pea^ cannot be obtained. 

Take some shallow pans, plant them pretty thickly 
l.th dwarf Spanish peas, and set them in a vinery where 
there is a shelf, and a good heat. When they 

are about six inches hish, and well furnished witli 

879 

leaves, cut them like mustard and cress, for the 

I^'^rpose of making green pea soup. Boil a small quantity 
^^ blue peas, and also boil the cuttings, mix the two, and 
P*ss them through a tammy; add this to jthe usual stock, 
^■^d. you will obtain a green pea soup which for colour, 
«avour, and body, cannot be surpassed, even by midsummer 
productions. 

3 80 it^ A quantity sufficient to serve a party of 
^^^rteen (thirteen is an unlucky number!) can be raised 
•* tlie expense of 2s. 6d. One quart of the strong growing 
^•X'ieties is enough for sowing; and a half pint of any 
^^t'iety of blue peas to boil separately. Mint should not 
^ "Used. 

^^1 li^ The young leaves of peas grown out of doors 



100 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

will do as well as those raised in glass houses. The 
proportions to be used may be thus indicated: — Half a pint 
of peas; one quart of pea leaves, two small lettuces, and 
one middle-sized onion. These will supply enough soup 
for six persons. 

382 JS^T When peas first come in, Fea Shells^ boiled, 
and pressed through a sieve, with some of the liquor in 
which they were boiled, are equally good as peas. The 
young pea haulm is also good for the purpose. One half 
the quantity of young peas will suffice - for soup^ when the 
shells are tised in this manner, 

Twoffardenera, who were neighbours, had their crops of early peas killed by the 
firost. One of them came to condole with the other. **Ah!*' cried he, *'how 
unfortmiate! Do >ou know, neighbour, I*ve done nothing but ftet ever since. But, 
bless me! you vseem to have a fine crop coming up; what sort are they?" "Why, 
those are what I sowed immediately after my loss." "What, coming up already?^ 
"Yes," replied the other, "wAOe you vere/rtUwg, I teas working.** 

Delicious Asparagus Soup, 

This is to be made with the points or heads of AsparaguSy 
in the same manner as green pea soup. Let half the 

-J. * asparagus be rubbed through a sieve, and the 
other cut in pieces about an inch long, and boiled 

"^ until soft, and sent to table in the soup. To 
make two quarts, there should be a pint of heads to thicken 
it, and half a pint cut in. 

384 j^T A cheaper soup, preferred by many, may be 
made by adding Asparagus Heads to common Pea Soup^ 

The favourite motto with Mr. Paradox has always been, ** Time is money." Acttag 
on this principle, he never wastes a word in conversation. For instance, he meets 
you in the street, and instead of saying, "Good morning! How do you do?" it Is 
simply, *^ Morning t Do?' If he wishes to inquire of his wife what she had fas 
dinner, he merely says, "DinnerV^ And upon retiring to bed, instead of wisfaing 
Mrs. P. " Good night," hi the customary way, he exclauns, *^Night.** Mr. FaiadOK 
calculates that he makes a clear saving of thirty days per annum by tbiB eaxoaaML 
system. 

Plain Pea Soup, 

To a quart of split Peas^ two heads of celery, and a 

large onion, put three quarts of broth; let them simmer 

__. gently over a slow fire for three hours, stirring 

every quarter of an hour, to prevent the peas> 

"°^ burning (as the water boils away, add some more); 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 101 

when the peas are well softened, work them through a 
coarse sieve, and then through a fine sieve or a tammy, 
wash out the stew-pan, and then return the Soup into 
it, and give it a boil up; take off any scum that comes 
np, and it is ready. Send them up with Fried Bread 
and Dried Mint on two side dishes. This is an excellent 
Family Soup, produced with very little trouble or expense. 
386 1^^ The Broth for the above may be derived 
from a Liquor made from the Bones of Boast Beef, or the 
water in which Mutton, Beef ^ Pork, or Poultry has been 
boiled. A Shank Bone of Ham, the Root of a Tongue, 
and pieces of a Red Herring are all good for Pea Stock, 

Aladt, who was in the habit of spending a large portion of her time in the society 
of her ne^hbonrs, happened one day to be taken iU, and sent her husband in great 
bute for a physician. Tlie husband ran a few yards, but suddenly turned back, 
exclaiadng, *'My dear, where s/mU J find you wlitn I cotM backf" 

A very Economical Carrot Soup, 

Clean arid scrape half-a-dozen largo Carrots; peel off 
the red outside, which alone is to be used for the soup ; 

«.. . put it into a gallon stew-pan, with one head of 
celery, and an onion shred to pieces. Take two 
quarts of beef, veal, or mutton broth, or if you 
have any Cold Roast Beef Bones, or the liquor in which 
mutton or beef has been boiled, you may make very good 
stock for this soup. When you have poured the broth 
upon the carrots, cover the stew-pan close, and set it 
on a slow fire for two hours and a half, or until the 
carrots are soft. Take some pieces of Stale Bread, and 
grate a large cupful of crumbs ; rub it tiirough a tammy 
or hair sieve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much 
li^th as will make it about as thick as pea soup. Either 
put it into the soup ; or make it hot in a separate stew-pan, 
season it with a little salt, and send it up as a side dish, 
"'^th some toasted bread cut into inch squares, to be eaten 
^th the soup, according to taste. 

388 1^^ To impart a better flavour, the Celery and 



102 THE F^UIILY SAVE-AXL : 

Onions may be fried to a light brown in butter, befoi 
beiug added to the soup. 

389 l@^ Or, put some Beef Bones into a saucepa: 
with four quarts of the Liquor in which Beef or Muttd^n 
has been boiled ; add two largo onions, a turnip, orz^^ 
a seasoning of pepper and salt; boil the whole fSKZ3r 
three hours. Have the Carrots ready, prepared as abov^" -^> 
strain the soup on them, and stew until they are sol 
then press them through a sieve. If you have 
Cold Roast Beef or Beef-Steak pulp about lialf a poun^^"- 
in a mortar, add to the soup, and serve very hot, 

A MISERLY old lady, daring the war, kept an Inn. One day a famished sold 
called, und asked for something to cat. Some beef-bones that had been pretty yr^^ 
picked, were set before him. After finishing his dinner, a little son of the lanohk^- 
noticing that the soldier found it very difficult to make out much of a dinner, p'" 
some money in his hand as he stepped out of the door. *' Mow much was it wor^ 
mother, to pick those bones?" asked the boy. "A shilling," was the rcidy, 
old lady expecting to receive the money. *'I thought so, mottier," repUed 
boy, *' so I gave the soldier a sftiUing for doing it, and sent him away.*' 

Rhubarb Spring Soup, 

Peel and wash about a dozen sticks of Bhubarb, mor^ 

or less, according to size, and the quantity of soup 

__. , required ; blanch them in water three or fontr 

minutes ; drain, and put it into a stew-pan, witli 

390 

two onions sliced, a carrot, a piece of lean Ham 

either shred or pounded, and a good bit of butter ; let 
it stew gently over a slow fire until tender ; then put in 
two quarts of good broth, to which add two or three 
ounces of bread crumbs ; boil about fifteen minutes ; 
skim the fat ; season with salt and cayenne pepper, pass 
through a tammy, and serve up with Fried Bread, 

Contentment consists not in adding more fuel, but in taking away some firef 
not in multiplying wealth, but in contracting desires. Worldly riches, like nuts* 
spoil men's teeth in cracking them, but fill no belly in eating them. 

Excellent Celery Soup, 

Cut six heads of Celery into pieces about two incheB 
long, wash them well, drain them on a hair slavey and 



SECONDARY COOKERr. 103 

put them into a stew-pan, witli three quarts of clear 

TTint ®*^^^' Stew gently for about an hour, till the 

celery is very tender. Eemove the scum, as it 

rises, and serve with a little salt. When Celery 

cannot be procured, half a drachm of the Seed, pounded 

fine, put in a quarter of an hour before the soup is done, 

will impart a fine flavour. Or a little Essence of Celery 

may be used. 

A FEUALE writer upon dress says, " Nothing looks worse on a lady than a darned 
stocking," We object to the assertion— a stocking that needs darning looks 
much worse. 

An excellent Soup of Endives, Best when they are 

Plentiful and Cheap, 
Trim away the green and outer leaves of about three 
dozen Endives, which should be thoroughly washed and 
p.. . examined ; blanch them in boiling water and a 

little salt for ten minutes, after which throw 

392 . 

them into cold water, drain, and press all the 

water out of them. Cut off* the roots, and put the 

endives into a stew-pan with four ounces of fresh butter, 

a little grated nutmeg, salt, and sugar. Stir the endives 

over a slow fire for about ten minutes with a wooden 

spoon ; then add a ladleful of good fowl or veal broth ; 

simmer gently in an oven, or by a slow fire for an hour, 

and then pass the endives through a tammy. To the 

puree thus obtained, add one quart more of broth, and 

just before sending the soup to table, add to it a pint of 

boiling cream or milk, and a pat of fresh butter. This 

w a capital light soup for the autumnal season, when 

endives are full and white. 

^ Squihe had a Mend to visit him on business, and was very much 
"Alloyed when his wife came to ask hhn what he wanted for dinner. " Go away.l 
^ t» alone ;" impatiently said the squire. Business detained his friend till dinner- 
™e, and the squire urged him to remain. To the surprise of both, they saw 
nothing but a huge bowl of salad, which the good wife began quietly to serve up. 

«y dear," said the squire, '* where are the meats ? " " You didn't order any," coolly 
*J>wered the housewife. " I asked what you would have, and you said, ' Lettuce 
*2>el' Here it is." The friend burst into a laugh, and the squire, after looking 
2J^ for a moment. Joined him. " Wife, I give it up. Here is the money you 
JJJited for that carpet whith I denied you. Now let's have peace, and somo 
**mer."- The good woman pocketed the money, rang the bell, and a suinptnous 
**PMt was brought in. 



104 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL ; 

/4 very Economical and Agreeable Soup of Lentils, 

Take one pint of Lentils, soak them in cold water i 

add six middle-sized onions ; two heads of celery ; twc 

__. carrots ; one turnip ; one quart of pot liquoi 

from boiled Beef, Mutton, or Pork, and one 

393 

quart of water. Stew the whole slowly, af 

preen peas for soup ; pour it all into a mortar, and pounc 
it well ; or, use lentil powder, as sold prepared ; straii 
through a tammy or sieve, and add one tablespoonful o1 
powdered lump sugar. One pint of lentils will make 
enough soup for seven persons. 

The poorer a man is, the more he pays for what he uses— as Franklin very Jnstlj 
observed, necessity never made a good bargain. The smaller the quantity m 
purchase, the larger the profit charged for it. 

Capital Soup from Goose or Duck Giblets. 

The Giblets of two Bucks may be reckoned as equal tc 
those of one Goose, Cleanse the Giblets, and parboil them ; 

-_. , take the skin off the feet, and crack the bones o1 
the legs ; cut the gizzards into quarters^ the neci 
into three pieces ; the feet, livers, and pinions int( 
two, and the head also into two, throwing away the bill 
Boil them (i.e. two sets of Goose Giblets, or four sets g\ 
Ducks,) in a quart of weak gravy soup, with an onion 
Have ready boiling some rich highly seasoned brown, gravj 
soup ; add the giblets, and the liquor they have been boilec 
in, with some chopped parsley; take out the onion, anc 
thicken the soup with a bit of butter kneaded in flour. 

395 1^" Or, one set of Goose, or two of Duck Giblets 
will make a quart of healthful nourishing soup. If a largei 
quantity is desired, and there are no more CHhlets to be had 
add a pound of Beef, or Mutton, or Bone of a KnueMe a^ 
Veal. 

396 1^^ Those who are fond of Forcemeat, slip off tlu 
skin of the neck, and fill it, tying up the ends ; or maLf 



SECONDARY COOKERT. 105 

4 

some Forceineat Balls of the Duck Stuffing, These should 
be put mto the soup about half-an-hour before taking up. 

A OKHEK one, who had a fpreat desire to possess a goose alive, set off to a 
KeighboTuing town, resolved to buy one, and fatten it for himself. Having m»de a 
bargain, he was returning home, when he was met by a waggish friend, to whom he 
idiowed his purchase. '* Why," said his friend to him, on seeing the goose, " tiiey've 
giren yon no gUbUU with him ; you have been cheated." The smiling countenance of 
the ixjabman wets turned to dismay : he reflected fbr a moment, then turned back, and 
Bctnally w;4lked a distance of two miles, to ask the market-woman for the giblets 
<tf the tfM gwue. 

-4 Capital Soup, made of Old Partridges, 

Take off the skins of two Old Partridges, that are too 

** venerable " for roasting ; cut them into small pieces, with 

_. . three slices of ham, two or three onions sliced, and 

some celery; fry them in butter till they are as 

brown as they can be made without burning ; then 

put them in three quarts of water, with a few peppercorns ; 

boil it slowly till a little more than a pint is consumed; 

then strain it. Put in some stewed celery and fried bread. 

A OEHTLCKAN complimented a lady on her improved appearance. " You are guilty 
<rf flattery," said aha. '* Not so," replied the genUeman, " for I vow you are as phitnp 
01 a partridge!" " At first," said the lady, '♦ I thought you guilty of flattery only ; 
bat BOW I flmd you are actnally making game of me ! " 

JExcellent Soup from Cold Hare, or from an Old 
Hare, that cannot be otherwise Cooked, 

Chop the Hctre into pieces, and break the bones ; stew it 

in say three quarts of -water or stock, with one carrot, cut 

p.. , small, a little onion, four cloves, a little pounded 

mace, some black pepper, and a bundle of sweet 

herbs ; if liked, a bay-leaf may be added. While 

tbese are stewing, make a dozen or more of Forcemeat Balls, 

^hen the Hare is stewed, so that the flesh leaves the bone, 

striun through a tammy, pick out the bones, &c., and 

collecting the meat, mince or pound it, with a little butter, 

*Dd two or three table-spoonsful of flour, rubbed ^ooth 

l^th a little soup ; rub this latter through a hair sieve, into 

the soup, to thicken it ; add a little more water or stock, to 

^^eep up the quantity ; let it simmer slowly half an hour 

^ger, skimming it well. Put in the meat, with a glass of 



106 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

port wine, and three table-spoonsful of currant jelly ; season 
with salt ; put in the Forcemeat Balls ; and when all is hot^ 
serve. If there is a good quantity of the Hare Stuffing^ it 
will suffice instead of the herbs. 

399 1^^ Rahhit, Partridge^ and Grouse Soup may he 
made fi'om the old animals, or cold remains if in sufficient 
quantity in the same manner. Smaller quantities may be 
made, when the fragments are not sufficient for the above. 

A LADT thought it would look interesting to faint away at a party the oUier 
evening. One of the company began bathing her temples and head with ram, when 
the lady exclaimed, '* For goodness' sake, put nothing on that will dumffe Ihe eciam 
(ff my hair!" 

A gallon of Broth for Four^pence : suitable to the 
poor, and good enough for the rich. 

Of Scotch Barley, well washed in cold water, take four 
ounces ; and four ounces of sliced onions. Put these into 

-_. five quarts of water — the fifth quart to allow for 
the decrease of quantity by boiling. After boiling 
gently for one hour, pour it into a pan, and put 
into the saucepan from which the soup has been poured 
two ounces of clear beef or mutton dripping, melted suet, 
or two or three ounces of fat bacon minced. When melted^ 
stir into it four ounces of oatmeal ; rub these together into 
a paste. Now add the Barley Broth previously prepared ; 
at first a spoonful at a time, and the rest by degrees, stirring 
well together until it boils. For seasoning, use ground 
black pepper, cayenne, allspice, salt, &c., to taste. Any 
other vegetables that may be at hand can be added, 
particularly chips of celery, carrots, leeks, chopped parsley, 
thyme, herbs, &c. 

401 it^ Stale bread, bits of biscuit, or plain suet 
dumplings may be added. 

WAnnpiTON, in his account of his voyage np the Nile, gives an amusing instaocfr 
of a singular opinion of the proper qualities of meat entertained by the sailors. He 
says: — " On arriving at Kench, we gave the crew a feast, consisting of an Mi ramf 
preferred by them to young mutton, because it ttood mart chewmg." 

Capital and Cheap Soup from Cow Heels, 
Boil two Cow Heels; cut the meat into moderately 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 107 

small pieces, and set them by separately in a dish ; put 
__. , the trimmings and bones into a stew-pan with 
three quarts of water, together with an unboiled 
cow-heel cut into quarters; add to this, two 
onions and two turnips, pared and sliced, the red part of 
two large carrots, two eschalots cut in halves, a bunch 
of lemon-thyme, and two bunches of parsley; set this 
by the side of a slow steady fire, keep it closely covered, 
and let it simmer gently six or seven hours, during Tvhich 
take care to remove the fat and scum. When done, 
strain the liquor through a sieve, and put two ounces of 
butter into a clean stew-pan ; when it is melted, stir into 
it as much flour as will make a stiff paste, add to it by 
degrees the soup liquor ; give it a boil ; strain through 
a sieve; and put in the thinly-pared peel of a lemon, 
a couple of bay leaves, and the meat of the boiled heels. 
Let it sinuner for half an hour longer; add the juice 
of a lemon, a gill of wine and a tea-spoonful of mushroom 
catchup, and serve in a tureen. 

"What are you about?" enquired a lunatic of a cook, who was industriously 
stripping the feathers from a fowl. "Dressing a cliicken," answered Uie cook. 
" I should call that «n-dressing," said the crazy chap. The cook looked grave^ eh 

Sot/er^s Soup for the Poor; which has been Tasted 
and Approved by numerous Noblemen, Membei's 
of Parliament, and Ladies. Tico gallons cost 
about Six'pence. 

Two ounces of dripping ; quai-ter of a pound of meat, 

cut into pieces one inch square ; quarter of a pound of 

p.. onions sliced thin ; quarter of a pound of turnips, 

cut into small dice ; two ounces of leeks — the 

green tops will do, chopped small ; three ounces 

of celery ; three-quarters of a pound of common flour ; 

half a pound of pearl barley, or one pound of Scotch ; 

three ounces of salt ; quarter of an ounce of brown sugai* ; 

two gallons of water. 



108 THE PAJnLY SAVE-ALL : 

404 1^^ Put the two ounces of dripping into a 
saucepan capable of holding two gallons of water, with 
a quarter of a pound of the leg of beef, without bones — " 
(the bones may be also put in, or be afterwards used for 
stews, gravies, &c.)— cut in pieces about one inch square; 
put in the onions, and then set the saucepan over a fire, 
and stir the contents round for a few minutes with a 
wooden or iron spoon until fried lightly brown. Then 
put in the turnips, celery, and leeks, cut into small pieces* 
Stir them with the other ingredients over the fire fiar 
another ten minutes ; then add a quart of cold water 
and three-quarters of a pound of flour, and the pearl 
barley, mixing all well together; then add s^ven quarts 
of hot water, seasoned with the salt, and brown sugar, 
stirring occasionally until boiling ; allow it to sinuuer for 
three hours, when the barley will be tender and the 
soup ready. 

Bishop Cuiiberland being told \yj some of his friends that he wotald wear himself 
out by intense application, replied, in the words of Bacon, " It is better to vttar 
out than rxut out." 

A Beef Brose, 

After any lai^ge piece of Beef has beei^ taken out 

of the pot it was boiled in, skim off the fat with part 

_. . of the liquor, and boil it in a saucepan. Make a 

Beef Brose thus : — Have ready in a bowl, Oatmeal 

that has been toasted brown before the fire. 

Pour in the boiling liquor, and stir it a little; if too 

thick add a little more liquor, and send it to table quite 

hot. 

"Will you dine with me to-morrow, Mr. ?" asked one Irishman of anothe^. 

" Faith, and I will, with all my heart." " Remember, 'tis only a family dinner I'm 
asking yon to." " And what for not ; an &mily dinner is a mighty pleasant thing. 
What have you got?" "Och, nothing uncommon: an elegant piece of oora^ 
beef and potatoes." " By the powers, that bates the world ; My favourite dinner ; 
we often have it at our table — harrin* the beefT* 

A Capital Soup of Cold Ox^head, 
This should be prepared the day before it is to be 



SECONDAKT COOKERY. 109 

eaten, as you cannot cut the meat off the head into neat 
-,. pieces unless it is cold: — the day before you 
want this soup, put half an Ox-Cheek into a 
tub of cold water to soak for a couple of hours ; 
then break the bones that have not been broken at the 
butcher's, and wash it in warm water ; put it into a pot, 
and cover with cold water; when it boils, skim very 
dean, and then put in one head of celery, a couple of 
carrots, a turnip, two large onions, two dozen berries 
of black pepper, same of allspice, and a bundle of sweet 
herbs, such as marjoram, lemon-thyme, savory, and a 
haadM of parsley; cover the pot close, and set on a 
slow fire ; take off the scum, and set by the fire-side 
to stew very gently for about three hours. Take out 
the head, lay it on a dish, pour the soup through a fine 
sieve into a stone-ware pan, and set it and the head by 
in a cool place till the next day ; — then cut the meat 
into neat pieces, skim and strain off the broth. Put 
two quarts of broth and the meat into a clean stew-pan — 
simmer very gently for half an hour longer, and it is 
ready. 

407 1^^ If you wish it thickened, put two ounces 
of butter into a stew-pan ; when melted, throw in as much 
flofuraswill dry it up; when well mixed, and browned 
ty degrees, pour to this your soup, and stir well together ; 
simmer for half an hour longer ; stiain through a hair 
sieve into a clean stew-pan, and put to it the meat of 
the head — stew half an hour longer, and season it with 
cayenne pepper, salt, a glass of good wine, or a table- 
spoonfiil of brandy, if required. 

—^ 8RHVANT was sent by her mistress, during warm weather, for a piece of beef. 
J^e butcher forwarded it in due course ; but, on removing a portion of the suet, 
™® iiidications of life which presented themselves were unmistakable. Next day 
« p ®*^e girl was sent for a leg of lamb. " Are you sure it is sweet ? " she enquired. 
^ertectly," said the butcher, "the lamb was alive yesterday." "So voas'the h^f 
^ had yesterday," was the reply. 

^^^ V^ May be served thickened in one Tureen, 
*^d send up the Meat in that, — the remainder as a clear 



110 THE FAMILT SAVE-ALL : 

Gravy Soup, with some of the carrots and turnips shred, 
or cut into shapes. 

Economical Soup of Ox^ Tails, 

Put into a gallon stew-pan eight cloves, two or thre< 
onions, half a drachm of allspice, the same of blaci 

__. pepper, and three Tails, divided between tht 
joints ; some persons fry the tails before the; 
put them into the soup. Cover them with coL 
water; skim it carefully as long as you see any scub 
rise ; then cover as close as possible, and set on th 
side of the fire to keep gently simmering till the mea 
becomes tender and will leave the bones easily, becaus 
it is to be eaten with a spoon, without the assistanc 
of a knife or fork ; this will require about two hours 
when perfectly tender, take out the meat and cut it oi 
the bones in neat mouthsful ; skim the broth, and straii 
it through a sieve. 

410 1^* If you prefer a Thickened Soup, put floui 
and butter, as directed in the preceding receipt,— 
or put two table-spoonsful of the fat you have takei 
off the broth into a clean stew-pan, with as much floui 
as will make it into a paste ; set this over t^e fire, anc 
stir them well together; then pour in the broth bj 
degrees, stirring it and mixing it with the thickening ;— 
let it simmer for another half-hour, and when you hav< 
well skimmed it, and it is quite smooth, then strain ii 
through a tammy into a clean stew-pan, put in the meat 
with a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup and season ii 
with salt. 

Eyes dry for their sins, are vainly wet for their suflferings: a drought In th« 
spring is not to be repaired by a deluge in the autumn. 

A Nourishing Soup of Ox Heels. 
Procure an Ox Heel undressed, or only scalded (not one 



SECONDARY COOKERY. HI 

that has been already boiled, as they are at the tripe shops, 
— .. , till almost all the gelatinous parts are extracted)^ 
and two that have been boiled as they usually are 
at the tripe shops. Cut the meat off the boiled 
lieels into neat pieces, and set it by on a plate; put the 
trimmings and bones into a stew-pan, with three quarts 
of water, and the unboiled heel cut into quarters;— furnish 
a stew-pan with two onions, and two turnips pared and 
sliced; pare off the red part of a couple of large carrots, 
add a couple of eschalots cut in half, a bunch of savory 
or lemon thyme, and double the quantity of parsley; set 
this over, or by the side of a slow steady fire, and keep 
it closely covered and simmering very gently (or the soup- 
liquor will evaporate) for at least seven hours: during 
^hich, take care to remove the fat and scum that will 
rise to the surface of the soup, which must be kept as 
clean as possible. Now strain the liquor through a sieve, 
^nd put two ounces of butter into a clean stew-pan; 
^hen it is melted, stir into it as much flour as will make 
it a stiff paste; add to it by degrees the soup-liquor; 
give it a boil up; strain it through a sieve, and put in 
^^G peel of a lemon pared as thin as possible, and a couple 
^^ hay-leaves, and the meat of the boiled heels ; let it go 
on simmering for half an hour longer, i. e, till the meat 
IS tender. Put in the juice of a lemon, a glass of wine, 
^^nd a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, and the soup 
^ ready for the tureen. 

"412 ij§r Those who are disposed to make this a more 
substantial dish, may introduce a couple of sets of Goose 
Of Duck Giblets, or Ox-tails, or Calves^ Tails, or a pound 
of Veal Cutlets, cut into pieces. 

** I coDwr only the hours that are serene." What a fine lesson is conveyed to the 
'™d in this, to take no note of Time but by its benefits ; to watch only for tho 
p^Jtti and neglect the frowns of fate ; to turn always to the sunny side of things, 
now different from the common art of self-tormenting ! 

A very Nice Onion Soup, 
^BOWN half a pound of butter, with a little flour; take 



112 THE FAMILT SAVE-ALL: 

care it does not burn ; when it has done hissing, slice a 

__. - dozen of large onions, fry them very gently until 

tender ; pour to them, by degrees, two quarts of 

boiling water, shaking the pan well round as it is 

poured in, and also a crust of bread ; let it boil gently for 

half an hour ; season it with pepper and salt ; take the top 

of a French roll, and dry it at the fire, put it into a 

saucepan with some of the soup, to soak it, then put it into 

the tureen ; let the soup boil some time after the onions are 

tender, as it gives the soup a great richness ; strain it o? 

and pour it upon the French roll. 

An old gentlewoman, who lived almost entirely on soaps, told as it wu a loiK 
time before she could get them made uniformly good — till she made tiie ftfflowtag 
rule — " If the sonp was good, she let the cook have the remainder of it— if it w* 
not she gave it to her lap-dog;" but as soon as this resolution was knownt poff 
littie Bow- Wow seldom got the sweet treat after. 

Brown Soup, without Meat, 

Put into a clean saucepan three quarts or more of water, 

with raspings sufficient to thicken it ; two or three onions 

-y. . cut across, some whole pepper, and a little salt; 

cover it close, and let it boil about an hour an** 
ill ^ 

a half ; strain it off through a sieve ; then haV^ 
celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and other herbs, not cO^ 
too small ; fry them in butter ; then take a clean stew-p»^ 
that is large enough for the ingredients; put in a go<^^ 
piece of butter, a dust of flour, and keep stirring it till ^^ 
is of a fine brown, then put in the herbs and soup ; bo^ 
it till the herbs are tender, and the soup of a prop^^ 
thickness ; put the soup into a tureen, and send it to tablep*^ 
have some fried bread in a plate, and some in the soup^ 
if agreeable. 



A MAN of business should take care to consult occasionally with pers(ms of a «-« 
quite different from his own. To very few are given all the qualities requisite 
form a good man of business. Thus a man may have the sternness and fixe' 
of purpose so necessary in the conduct of affairs, yet these qualities prevent 
perhaps, from entering into the character of those about him. He is likely to . 
tact. He will be unprepared for the extent of versatility and vacillation in o 
men. But these defects and oversights mi;i;ht be remedied by consulting with — 
whom he knows to be possessed of the qualities supplementary to his own. 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 113 

White Soup, without Meat. 

Put into a clean saucepan two or three quarts of water, 
iJie crumb of a twopenny loaf, with a bundle of sweet herbs, 

_-. , some whole pepper, two or three cloves, an onion 
or two cut across, and a little salt; let it boil 
covered till it is quite smooth ; take celery, endive, 
and lettuce, only the white part ; cut them into pieces, not 
too small ; boil them, strain the soup off into a clean 
stew-pan; put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter 
stirred into it till it is melted; then let it boil for some 
time till it is very smooth ; if any scum arises, take it off 
very clean. Soak a small French roll, nicely rasped in 
some of the soup, and send it to table. 

Zeal without knowledge is fire without llprlit. 

Ip youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save. 

He that is angry without a cause, must be pleased without amends. 

Nourishing Milk Soup. 

Take two quarts of New Milky with two sticks of 

cinnamon, a couple of bay-leaves, a very little salt, and a 

--. . very little sugar; then blanch half a pound of 

sweet almonds while the milk is heating, beat 

them up to a paste in a mai'ble mortar ; mix them 

by degrees with some milk ; while they are heating, grate 

the peel of a lemon, with the almonds, and a little of the 

iuice; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and mix it 

w-ith the milk that is heating in the stew-pan, and let it 

:>oil up ; cut some slices of French bread, and dry them 

before the fire ; soak them a little in the milk ; lay them at 

^he bottom of the tureen, and then put in the soup. . 

Bb that has but one hog makes hun fat, and he that has but one son makes 
^im a fool. 
^hscHiEFs come by the pound, and go away by the ounce. 
Bettbb keep under an old hedge, than creep under a new furze bush. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Scald a Calf^s Heady which cut into inch squares; 
^fi-sh and clean them well, dry them with a cloth, and put 



114 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL: 

them into a stew-pan, with two gallons of stock gravy, 

-J.. . sweet basil, knotted marjoram, savory, a little 

thyme, some parsley, all chopped fine, cloves 

AT? 

and mace pounded, half a pint of Madeira or 

sherry; stew all together gently for four hours; heat a 

little stock gravy with a little milk (one pint), some flour 

mixed smooth in it, the yolk of two eggs; keep these 

sti'nnng over a gentle fire until near boiling ; put this in 

the soup, stirring it as you put it in, for it is very apt 

to curdle ; then let all stew together for half an hour, 

when it is ready to send to table, throw in some Forcemeat 

Balls and hard yolks of eggs ; when ofi* the fire, squeeze 

in the juice of half a lemon. The quantity of the soup 

may be increased by adding more stock gravy, with calves' 

feet and ox palates, boiled tender, and cut into pieces. 

Step among yonr neighboui's, reader, and see whether those among them wha 
have got along smootlily, accumulated property, and gained a good name, hare 
not been men who bent themselves to one single branch of business. It must be so. 
Gq out in the spring, when the sun is for distant, and you can scarcdy feel the 
influence of its beams, scattered as they are over the wide face of creation; but 
collect those beams to a focus, and they kindle up a flame in an instant. So tiia 
man that squanders his talents and Ids strength on many things, will fisdl to make 
an impression with cither; but let him draw them to a point— -let hhn strike at a 
single object, and it will yield before him. 

Excellent and Cheap Pumpkin Soup. 

Take a Knuckle of Veal and a Knuckle of Ham, In 

absence of the Veal, use a Calfs Foot or a Cow-Heel^ or 

_-. . even some Bones; and, in place of the Ham,^ 

use part of the Hock of Bacon, Cut and chop 

these up ; put them into a two-gallon stew-pan ; 

then add to them two large onions sliced, one carrot, 

two middle-sized turnips sliced, with skin on, the 

outside leaves of a large head of celery cut into 

small pieces, one tea-spoonful of ground allspice, one 

table-spoonful of salt, and a piece of butter or marrow 

the size of a walnut. Place the stew-pan on the fire; 

keep stirring the contents with a wooden spoon, to prevent 

them sticking to the bottom of the pan, and until there is 

a kind of white glaze on the pieces of meat ; then add, 



SECONDART COOKERY. 115 

hj degrees, one "gallon of hot water ; peel and take out 
the seeds of a Pumpkin about six pounds in weight; 
cut it into pieces, and put it into the stew-pan ; boil until 
the pieces of Pumpkin are quite soft ; pass as much as 
possible of the contents of the stew-pan through a coarse 
hair-sieve; then boil it again, adding more water if too 
^ick. Season it with a table-spoonful of pounded sugai*, 
a tea spoonful of pepper, and more salt if required. Serve 
in a tureen, with some fried bread cut the size of dice. 

419 H^^ This soup is preferable to soups of the pea 
Idnd; it cools the blood, and corrects the acid humours 
of the body. 

420 ij^^ In all kinds of soups, where butter is recom- 
:xnended, marrow is preferable, only in larger quantities. 

421 ij^^ Pumpkins may also be dressed as vegetables 
l)y being cut into slices, boiled in plenty of water with 
asome salt in it, drained well when done, and served on 
acme toast, with melted butter made with cream poured 
over it. 

422 8^ Pumpkins may likewise be Fkkledy by cutting 
them into slices, and proceeding the same way as for 
Jndian pickles ; or they will do to mix with other vegetables 
=for Piccalily. 

God reaches ns good things with our own hands. 

When the fox preaches, beware of your geese. 

In the forehead and the eye, the lecture of the mind doth lie. 

Capital Broth of Sheep's Head, 

The Sheep's head is well worth cooking for broth. To 

^*^ake broth, get a fine Head, and scald the wool off the 

-J.. same as the calf's head; then put it into a 

saucepan with a gallon of water, and let it boil 

gently for three hours ; having put in with the 

^ead a carrot and turnip sliced, and an onion or two, the 

Scum should be taken off fi^Q or six times, so as to get 

^t perfectly free from grease ; take out the head, cut the 



116 THE F^VMILY SAVE-ALL : 

meat from tho bones into squares, and put them into tho 
saucepan again with the liquor, leaving the turnips, carrots, 
and onions in also; season with pepper and salt, add a 
little flour to thicken, and serve in basins, with some 
toast cut into squares in the basin, and a little chopped 
parsley, fresh. 

424 1^* The Scrag End of the Neck, Shank Bones, or 
Feet, will make broth as well as the head. 

WnT are chickens' necks like door bells ?— Because they are rung for company. 

Soup from Calved Taik, commonly called 

Chesterfield Soup. 

Take three gallons of stock gravy, a little whole pepper 
and allspice, a few sprays of basil and knotted marjoram, 

-,. , some salt and catchup, three onions, two carrots, 
and a little celery cut small ; it should boil two 
^^ or three hours, until the vegetables are done to 
shreds; in the mean time a Boux should be prepared thus ^-- 
Place half a pound of butter in a confectionery paw, 
when it is melted, add two pounds of flour, which hslving 
thoroughly mixed with the butter, gradually thin by 
adding some of tho stock which has boiled for two hours; 
when it can be added to the other ingredients, and allowed 
to boil for half an hour, being kept well stirred to prevent 
burning. It should then be strained through a hair sieve 
into an earthen or tin pan. It will require twelve Calved 
Tails for the above quantity of Soup; they should be 
separated at the joints, placed in a stew-pan, with two 
gallons of water, and allowed to boil until thoroughly 
cooked, when, having removed the scum from time to time, 
they can be added, liquor and all, to the soup; when, 
having allowed it to simmer for a few minutes, it can be 
served with a wineglass of sherry or Madeira, in the 
tureen. 

A TouNG lady, after dancing all night, and several hours longer, will generally 
find, on consulting the looking-glasSi that the evening'* omMemaU vHU not bear the 
morning's rejkction* 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 117 

Capital Zests for Cold Meats, Salads, Gravies, 8fc,, 

Costing the Merest Trifle^ 

Pour a quart of the best vinegar on three ounces of 

scraped horseradish, an ounce of minced eschalot, and one 

_-. drachm of cayenne ; let it stand a week, and you 

will have an excellent relish, at a merely nominal 

cost. Horseradish is in highest perfection about 

November. 

427 1^^ Horseradish Powder should be made during 
November and December; slice it the thickness of a 
shilling, and lay it to dry very gradually in a Dutch oven 
(a strong heat evaporates the essential flavouring oil); 
when dry enough, pound, and bottle it. 

428 1^^ Dry and pound half an ounce of cress-seed 
(such as is sown in the garden with mustard), pour upon 
it a quart of the best vinegar; let it steep ten days, 
sliaking it up every day. This will be very strongly 
flavoured with the cress, and for salads, cold meats, &c., 
Avill be greatly liked. The quart of sauce will cost only 
«i penny more than the vinegar. 

429 O^ Bruise half an ounce of celery-seed, and 
s^dd a quarter of a pint of brandy or proof spirit. Let 
it; steep for a fortnight. A few drops will immediately 
fl.avour a pint of broth, and form an excellent addition to 
X>ease and other soups, and the salad mixture of oil, 
^-inegar, &c. 

The good are better made by ill. 
As odours crush'd ore sweeter still. 

-^ Capital and Cheap Sauce for Roast Pork, Pork 

Chops, or Warmed Cold Pork, 

Well wash and cut up a good-sized red cabbage, or 

part of one ; peel an equal weight of apples ; slice and 

•r^. take out the cores; put the cabbage and the 

apples into a stewpan, together with a piece of 

^^^ butter, and very little water ; or in lieu of bntter, 



l8 the family save-all : 

piece of fat bacon ; stew them gently by the side o ' t 
,he fire until quite tender; stir and mix well together *, 

season with popper and salt, and serve with pork as above 
The pieces of cold pork should be put in the stew-pan 
and warmed with the sauce. 

431 JS^ When pickling red cabbage, take the oppor- -^n 
tunity of giving this sauce a ti'ial, and it will become ^ a. 
standard dish. 




An honefit farmer was incited to attend a party at a village squire's one ereninc^B. ^raigi 
irhen there was lunsic, vocal and instrumental. On tlio following momiDg he lue^-^^iaet 
one of tlic gaests, who said, *'Wcll, farmer, how did yon enjoy youn*elf last nighu^'.city 
Were not the quartettes excellent?" "Why really, sir, I can't say," said he, ** f^gjaf^^fw 
J didn*t taste 'cm; but the pork chops were first rate." 

The Best English Substitute for Indian Chvtney, 

Half-a-gallon of vinegar ; thi'ee quarts of greeic: ^m 
Gooseberries^ boiled in three pints of the vinegar ^ntP" ^ 
--. tender; one pound of coarse brown sugar, t ' — ^ 
be made into a syrup with the other pint of vinegain- ""> 
three-quarters of a pound of common salt; 
quarters of a pound of pudding raisins ; half a poun<i 
cuiTants ; two ounces of cayenne ; two ounces of garlic 
one ounce of ground ginger ; three ounces of mustard 
one grated nutmeg ; one tea-spoonful of ground mace 
one ounce of Jamaica pepper. The garlic and ginger 
be well ground in a mortar. All the ingredients to be well- 
mixed with the gooseberries and vinegar. Wlien th£^ 
vinegar and gooseberries are nearly cold, mash them uf^ 
and strain through a colander ; then add half-an-ounce of* 
turmeric for colouring. 

433 ^^ This resembles the real Chutney more closely 
than any of the other substitutes. 

434 fegr- Some use Crab Apples instead of gooseberries, 
nnd eschalots instead of garlic. These changes are to 
accommodate peculiar tastes. 

" There is no mistake about tliese pickles," said Brown, as he helped himself a nintt 
time from a newly-opened jar; "they are the genuine article, and came ail the wm 
from India!'' "Yes," replied his economical wife, "and if you Mill onlv rontrol yon 
appetite, they will go a <jreat deal further.'' 



SECONDABY COOKERY. 119 

The Economy of ^^Bastings^^ — Means of Saving the 

Consumption of Butter. 

Well clarified dripping, and the fat skimmings of broths 

and soups, when fresh and sweet, will baste everything 

--. . as well as butter, except game and poultry, and 

should supply the place of butter for common 

• pies, &c., for which they are equal to lard, especially 

if the clarifying be repeated twice over. If kept in a 

cool place, it may be preserved a fortnight in summer, and 

longer in winter. 

436 8^* To clarify dripping, put it into a clean sauce- 
pan, over a stove or slow fire ; as soon as a scum forms, 
skim it well, let it boil, and then let it stand till it is a 
little cooled, then pour it through a sieve into a pan. 

437 8^* After frying, let the spare dripping stand a 
few minutes to settle, and then pour it through a sieve into 
a clean basin or stone pan, and it will do a second and a 
third time as well as it did the first ; but the fat in which 
fish has been fried, must not be used for any purpose than 
frying other fish. 

Why is hot bread like a caterpillar?— Because it's the grub that makes the butterfly / 

To make a Nice Fish Cakcy from Scraps of 

Cold Fish. 

There are few articles of food more likely to be wasted 

"X^lien cold than fish of various kinds. Take any Cold 

--. Fish^ and separate the bones carefully. Instead 

of throwing away the latter, put all of them, 

including the head, fins, and tail, if any, into a 

^tew-pan, with just enough water to cover them, with 

^ome pepper, an onion, a faggot of sweet herbs, and a little 

^alt ; stew them down, and a nice gravy will be produced. 

-A. drop or two of fish sauce, or anchovy, may be added, 

- if approved. Mince the fish, and mix it well with crumbs 

^f bread, cold potatoes, a little parsley finely chopped. 



120 THE FAMILY SAYE-ALL : 

and season to taste. Make into a cake with the white of 
an egg, or a little butter, or milk ; egg it over, and cover 
with bread cnimbs ; then fry a light brown. Pour the 
gravy over, and serve hot. Garnish with slices of lemon, 
or sprigs of parsley. This affords a capital dish to help 
out a scrap dinner; or a nice relish for either breakfast 
or supper. 

When Jjord Erskine was Chancellor, being asked by the Secretary of the Trea- 
miry whether he would attend the grand ministerial tish dinner at the end of the 
session, lie answered, " To be sore 1 will. >Miat would your Ash dinner he without 
the Oreat Sealf" 

To prepare a Nice Dish for Breakfast, Supper, or 
Dinner, hy escalloping fragments of Cold Soles, 
Cod, Wliitings, Smelts, or other Fish, 

Take the Cold Fish, separate it from the bones, and 
cut into small pieces. Obtain oysters, in number propor- 

__. , tioned to the quantity of fish. Stew them slowly 
in their own liquor for two or three minutes; 
take them out with a spoon, and beard them, if 
preferred ; skim the liquor, and pour it into a basin. Put 
a bit of butter into the stew-pan, melt it, and add as 
much bread crumbs as will dry it up, then put the oyster 
liquor into the pan with the butter and crumbs, and give 
it a boil. Put the cold fish into scallop shells that have 
been previously buttered and strewed with bread. crumbs; 
add a couple of oysters to each ; divide the oyster liquor 
between the different shells, cover with bread crumbs, 
and drop bits of butter on the top of each ; then brown 
in a Dutch oven. The whole may be prepared at once 
in a large flat dish, instead of the scallop shells. Those 
who like a particularly keen relish may add anchovy, 
catchup, cayenne, grated lemon-peel, mace, or other con- 
diments to taste. 

440. 1®^ The Muddy Flavour of Pond Fish may be 
diminished in the following manner: — When the fish has 
been perfectly cleaned, insert a slice of bread, large enough 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 121 

to fill up the belly, and ren\ove this whea the fish is 
cooked. 

The prolificacy of edible fish is a subject fitted, for the most' evident reasons, to 
call forth our wonder and thankfulness towards a beneficent Providence. Leuwenhoek, 
the physiologist, counted 9,384,000 eggs in a cod, 36,960 hi a herring, 38,278 in a 
nnelt, 546,681 hi a mackerel, 225,568 in a flounder, 1,357,400 in a plaice, 100,000 in 
a sole, in a carp 3,686,760, and in a tench, 300,000. 

A nice Pie from Cold Salmon or Mackerel. 

Skin the pieces, and remove all the ^ bones. Then 

pound the fish very fine in a mortar, with mace, 

__. nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste. Eaise the 

pie of paste, as for meat pies, and ornament 

the sides in the usual manner. Put the salmon 

in, and cover it, and bake until nicely browned. When 

it comes out of the oven, take off the top crust, and 

put in a little melted butter ; cut a lemon in slices, 

und lay over the top ; stick in two or three leaves of 

fennel, and send to table without a cover. 

442 1^" Cold Mackerel may be served in the same 
■way, mixed with cold veal. The sauce to be poured 
Into this, should be made of melted butter, cream or 
xnilk, with chopped parsley. Or, bruise the roes of 
-the mackerel, whether hard or soft, with the yolk of 
wixsl egg; beat up with a little pepper and salt, and 
some fennel parsley chopped very fine, mixed with 
-thin melted butter. 

When a man has the headache, and snys " It 's the salmon^'' you may safely conclude 
"that he has been " drinking like a fishJ''' 

Fish Stew, that may he eaten cither hot or cold. 

Take three or four fresh Haddocks, Soles, or Plaice; 

salt the fish very slightly ; cut it into pieces, and then 

--. prepare a Fish Forcemeat as follows : — Take 

a little of the raw fish, a little of the liver, 

"^ some parsley, a good quantity of bread-cnimbs, 

some allspice, and mix an egg into balls. Have ready 

a stew-pan, in which you have, previously to making 

your forcemeat, put a large or small onion (according to 



122 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

,the quantity of fish) cut in rings ; a little parsley, a bit 
of butter as big as a chesnut, and a quarter-pint o^ 
water ; add cayenne and mace, each a pinch, and ground- 
ginger as much as would lie on a half-crown piece* 
When this has simmered a quarter of an hoar, and. 
your forcemeat is ready, put in your fish, and lay th^ 
forcemeat balls on it. Stew gently half au hour ^ 
have the yolk of an egg well beaten ; add to it th^ 
juice of four lemons ; beat well together ; add thereto^ 
a little of the boiling liquor of your fish to prevents 
curdling, and add this to the fish. One boil up morc^ 
and it is ready — and a very savoury dish, too. 

Why is French cookery better than Enp^Iish ? Because in the Reyolation of 1688 9. 
the Stew-arts were driven ont of England into France. 

Cold Fried Soles nicely warmed. 

Fried Soles will keep very good in a dry place, foir 
three or four days. They may be warmed for thc^ 
__. table by hanging them on the hooks in a Dutcti. 
oven, and putting them at a distance from tho 
fire, that they may warm gradually. 
445 1^^ Or, they may be warmed in good Beef 
Chravtj^ according to the directions given for Boiled 
Soles, &c. 

Setueant Cockle, who Mas a rough blustering advocate, once got from a witness 
more than he gave. In a trial of a right of fisherj', he asked the witness, ** Dont 
you love fish?" " Ay," replied the witness, "but / donna loike cockle sauce with Ut^* 

A nice way of serving up any kind of Cold Fish, with 

Stale Bread, 8fc. 

Dip a flat dish in hot water, to prevent cracking ; smear 

it with butter, and sprinkle white pepper on it ; then 

a thick layer of stale bread, grated fine ; upon 

the bread place a layer of Fish, picked from the 

" bones, and divided into small pieces ; another 

layer of bread as before, with a little melted butter, without 

milk, poured over it. Repeat as often as required for 

the quantity of fish. Smooth the surface with a ppoon, 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 123 

*^<i sprinkle slightly witli fine bread, mixed witli white 
Pepper. Place it in a Dutch oven for twenty or thirty 
''^^utes. A nice dish for any meal. 

447 it^ Cold Mutton may be served in the same way. 

A. Frencbican had heard the phrase, " I've got other fish to fry," uttered by 

* XMrson who was hi a hurry, and did not wish to he detained. He determined 

'*<* i«member the phrase and its application. One day a friend invited him to go 

^"i^ walk, and being otherwise engaged, he thought of the above eiqpression, 

'^'^til gave it thus, " Excuse me to-day, sare, / mua go fry some ftth.*^ 

-^kfackerel preserved when Ckeap^ to keep until they 

are Dear, 

Macherely being at certain times very plentiful and 

•<ilieap (especially to persons who live near the coast), 

•y. . may be preserved to make an excellent and 

well-flavoured dish, weeks or months after 

the season has passed. Having chosen fine 

isound fish, cleaned them perfectly, and either boiled 

^em, or fried them lightly in oil, the fish should 

l)e divided, and the bones, heads, and skins being 

removed, they should then be well rubbed over with 

the following seasoning : for every dozen good-sized 

fish, it will be requisite to use three table-spoonsful 

of salt, one ounce and a half of common black 

pepper, six or eight cloves, and a little mace, finely 

powdered, and as much grated nutmeg as the ope- 

Tator chooses — not, however, exceeding one nutmeg. 

Let the surface of each fish be well covered with the 

seasoning ; then place the fish in layers packed into 

a stone jar (not a glazed one), cover the whole with 

vinegar ; and, if it bo intended to be kept long, pour 

-Salad oil or melted suet over the top. 

449 1^^ The glazing on earthen jars is made from 
iead or arsenic, from which vinegar dissolves poison. 

A CLASS was reciting a lesson in metaphysics— the chapter on moUvu operating 
On the human will — ^when a mackerel vendor went by, shouting " ilackerel, fine 
tkresh mackerel!" Suddenly, disturbed by the noise, the master inquired of 
^lie class what motive the man had for making such a noise. No answer being 
J^ven, he said they must be deaf as haddocks^ and flat as flounders^ not to 
Xkerceive that it was a seU-Jish motive. 



124 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

A Capital and Cheap winter dishy called ^^ Winter- 

PF/iitebait:' 

Select some of the largest and soundest SpratSy. 

which are in season all the winter, and best in frosty 

__. , weather. Shake them in flour to remove the- 
Hint 

scales, then egg them over with a brush ; shake 

them in equal quantities of flour and bread. 

crumbs, and fry them in boiling fat for three minutes. 

Serve them dry on a napkin. Brown bread and butter 

and a lemon should be set on the table with them, and 

those who like them "devilled" should add cayenne to 

suit their taste. A capital first dish for dinner, or a 

nice relish for supper, and calculated to entice the 

master home, thus aflbrding a new application of the- 

old adage " throwing out a sprat to catch a mackerel." 

In ope of our City schools, not many years ago, a member of tho committee 
asked the members of a class which was under examination, *' wliat was the cause 
of the saltness of the ocean ? " Soon one little Rirl raised her head, flushed with 
the discovery which had flashed upon her mind. *' You may tell/* said tiie committee- 
man. ^ SaUfishf sir," said the pupil. 

To make a netv dish for the dinner^tahley of Cold' 

Boiled Soles, 

If you have saved the Shins of Soles, throw them- 

into salt and water, and scrape and wash them well^ 

__. , Then put them into a stew-pan and cover them 

with water ; add two onions, with two cloves- 

stuck in each, and one blade of mace. Let 

it boil twenty minutes, and strain through a sieve into 

a basin. Make the sauce as thick as cream, by adding 

a little flour ; add also two table-spoonsfiil of port 

wine, and one of catchup ; stir these into the sauce by 

degrees ; give it a boil, and pour it over the fish 

through a sieve. Then having wiped out the stew^ 

pan, warm up, and serve hot. Instead of tho sauce 

thus prepared, good beef gravy, mushroom sauce, or 

white sauce, may be employed. 

Whsx Canning^s health was drunk, at the Minister's Blackwall dinner, he replied* 
"Gentlemen, this is a fish dinnfer; so, after sincerely thanking yon for your good 
wishes, I do not see that we can do better than follovo the example of ihe JlthUf, 
who drink a good dealt 2wt never speak.'''' 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 125 

^ nice Stew of cold lolled Soles, Turhot, Brill, 
Plaice, Flounder, or other flat-Jisli. 

« 

Slice and bone the Fisli, and rub it with a little 
salt and flour. Have ready some good beef gravy, 

put the fish into it, and warm very gently. 

Take out the fish carefully, and lay on a dish. 

Make the sauce about as thick as cream, by 
mixing a little flour with it ; add two table-spoonsful 
o:f port wine, one of mushroom catchup ; a little cayenne ; 
stir these into the sauce by degrees, give it a boil, and 
strain it to the fish through a sieve. 

•* Haven't you finished scaling that fish yet, Sam ? " " No, master, *tis a very large 
one." "Large one! why you've had time enough to scale a mountain I'* 

To make a nice Relish out of fragments of cold 

Lobster or Crab, 

It very often happens, after Lobster or Crab suppers or 

luncheons, that legs and claws, and portions of the back, 

-_. are left untouched or imperfectly picked. Collect 

all the fragments of fish, and put with them two 

blades of mace, a little white pepper, and salt, and 

'*! small portion of butter, and seasoning ; the quantities 

* c>f the latter must be proportioned to the amount of lobster, 

-^^cording to judgment. Put these all together, and beat 

"them into a paste in a mortar. Take earthenware boxes 

in which potted fish or meats have been purchased, or 

* euch small jars or large gallipots as you may have about 

the house, and fill as many of these with the prepared 

lobster as you may be able to do. If there are any solid 

parts of the tail, which cannot well be reduced to a paste, 

they may be cut into small pieces, and set in the middle 

■of the pots, and the paste poured over them. When the 

pots are nearly filled, press down the contents, pour over 

them a layer of clarified butter, lard, or melted suet fat. 

This will afibrd a nice relish for breakfast, luncheon, or 



126 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

supper. If intended to be kept for some time, tie down 
with pieces of wet bladder. 

A Tonxo lady at a ball was asked by a lover of serious poetry whether she had 
seen " Crabbe's Tale»r " WTiy, no," she answered, " I didn't know tliat crabs had 
tails." " I beg your pardon, miss," said he ; " I mean have you read Crabbe's Tales? * 
*' I assure you, sir, I was not aware that red crabs had tails, nor any other." 

A very Nice Slipper Dishy or Plain Patties^ of 

Oysters. 

Make little round loaves, or take small French rasps ; 

make a round hole in the top of each, and scrape out a 

__. portion of the crumb. Put sufficient Oysters into 

a stew-pan with their own liquor, and add to 

them the crumbs of bread, rubbed or grated fine,- 

and a good lump of butter ; season with white pepper, a 

sprinkle of cayenne; stew for five or six minutes, and 

then put in a spoonful of good cream. Fill the rasps or 

loaves, and cover with the bits of crust previously cut 

ofi*; set them in an oven for a few minutes, to warm and 

crisp. 

455 l^g" Minced Veal, Lamb, Poulti^j, Game, &c., may 
be done in the same way, as for paste patties. 

" Brino in the oysters I told you to open," said the head of a household, grwing 
impatient. "Tliere they are," replied the country cook, proudly; "it took me a* 
long while to clean 'cui, but Pve done it at last, and thrown ail Vie vuida into 
the hogs* wcuA." 

An Excellent Method of Obtaining Oyster Sauce^ when 

Oysters are ^^Out of Season,' and of making it 

portable to places where Oysters cannot be obtained,. 

Open the Oyster's carefully, so as not to cut them, except 

in dividing the gristle which attaches them to the shells. 

_-. Put them into a mortal*, and when you have a& 

many as you can pound at once, add about two 

drachms of salt to about a dozen oysters ; pound 

them, and rub them through a hair sieve, and put them 

into the mortar again, with as much thoroughly dry flour 

as will roll them into a paste ; roll this paste out several 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 127 

times, and lastly, flour it, and roll it out the thickness of 
half-a-crown, and cut it into pieces of one inch square ; 
lay them in a Dutch oven, where they will dry so gently 
as not to get burned; turn them every half hour, and 
when they begin to dry, crumble them. They will take 
about four hours to dry. Pound them, sift them, and put 
them into dry bottles ; cork and seal them. Three dozen 
natives require seven and a half ounces of flour to make 
them into a paste weighing eleven ounces, and when dried 
in powder, six and a half ounces. 

457 t^* To make half a pint of Oyster Sauce from 
this powder, put one ounce of butter into a stew-pan, 
with three drachms of oyster powder, and six table- 
spoonfuls of milk : set it on a slow fire, stir it till it boils,, 
and season it with salt. 

458 1^^ As a Sauce, this is excellent with Fish, Fowls, 
or Eump Steaks; and, sprinkled on bread and butter, it 
makes good Sandwiches, 

** I now a genius " observed Meister Karl, " who has an howdacious plan of opening- 
^y>fert. He spreads *eni hi a chxle, seats himself m the centre, and begins spinning 
* ywn. Smnetimes it's a lion slaying adventure— sometunes a legend of his love- 
sometimes a descent into the crater of Vesuvius. As he proceeds, the • natives ' get 
*oter^8ted, one by one they gape with astonishment at the tremendous whoppers which 
•w poured forth ; and as they gape, my friend whips them out, and swallows them." 
"That'll do," said Starlight, with a long sigh." " I wish we had a bushel of 'em here- 
to*— they'd open ecuy." 

Indicate Breakfast Rashers from Cold Boiled Bacon.. 

Cut the Bacon into slices, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; grate over them some crust of bread, and powder 
^. them well with it on both sides ; lay the rashers 
on a cheese-toaster, and brown them on both 
sides. - 
460 1^* Excellent to accompany Poached or Fried 
^998, and for a garnish around veal cutlets, or sweet- 
breads; or hashed calf's head, or dishes of green peas, 
<^r beans. 

A PAflrmiouB boarder, at a cheap establishment in New York, lately appeared at 
^™ taWe, when a rather unsavoury ham presented itself for discussion. It lookoiL 
JJfy weU, but the boarder said to his host, " How horrible it smells !" " WeU," repUed 
^ other, " what o' that? Take hold, man, you come to the table to eat pour victuais^ 



128 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

A Savoury Supper quite Irresistible, 

If there ai'O no social objections to your eating Oniom^ 
try the following : to an omelette of three eggs, add half 

_.. . a good-sized onion, mixed almost to a powder, and 
a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. The shredding 
of the onion to a sufficient degree of fineness, is 
the most important thing, as from the short time required 
to cook the omelette, it would otherwise be insufficiently 
/Iressed. The onion should be boiled previously (oi 
partially so), for fastidious tastes ; but thereby some degree 
of flavour and crispness is sacrificed. 

It was remarked by an eminent barrister that learning in ladies sbonld be as onkn 
properly are in cookery — you should perceivt the flavour ^ but not the thing itaeH 

Bosom Friend—** Well, dear, now that you are a widow, tell me are you any Hb 
happier for it?** Interesting Widow—'* Oh, no! But I have my freedom, and uat* 
a great comfort. Do you know, my dear, I had an onion yesterday for the flrs 
time these fourteen years !" 

Celery flavour for Soups all the year round, 

_-. At those seasons, or in those places where celer 

cannot bo obtained for soups. Dried Celery Seei 

^'^ will be found to supply an excellent substitute, 

A WORTHY old fiumer, residing in the vicinity of Slahopeck, was worried to deat 
by unruly boarders. They found fault with his table, and said he had nothing i 
to cat. *' Hang it," said old Isaac, ** what a ftiss you're making. I can eat anything. 
*' Can you eat a crow, now ?" said one of the boarders. " Yes, I ken eat a crow. 
** Bet you a hat," said the guest. The bet was made, the crow shot, and roasted 
but, before serving it up they mischievously contrived to sprinkle it well witii iSlcoA 
snuff. Isaac sat down to the crow. He took a good bite, and began to chew awa; 
but he made an aAvfol face; however, he persevered, and succeeded, and when I 
hod finished, he s^d, with singular grimace, " You see I ken eat a crow, but I confe 
/ shouldn't be inclined to hanker carUr it I" 

Mint and other Vinegars for Cxdinary purposes. 

Put fresh Mint leaves into a stone jar, and pour on thei 

a sufficient quantity of the best wine vinegar to cove 

. them. Set the jar in a warm place for fourtee 

days; then strain through a jelly-bag. In th 

^^ same way may be made Elder-flower, Water-cres 

Basil, Tarragon, and Burnet vinegars. Fifty Englis 

chilies, cut or bruised, may be added to either of th 

above. 



SECONDABY COOKERY. 129 

A cheap Method of obtaining a Constant supply of 

Pure Vinegar, 

Takk one gallon of water, half a pound of sugar, half 

a pound of molasses, and boil them together for twenty 

-_. . minutes ; when cool, add a quarter of an ounce 

of German yeast; put the whole into a jar, and 

*^ lay a Vinegar Plant on the surface of the liquor. 

Cover the jar with paper, keeping it in a warm place, and 

it will Reduce very good and wholesome vinegar in about 

six weeks. 

465 i^y The Vinegar Plant is a minute fungus, foiming 
what is commonly called " the mother of vinegar." A bit 
of this thrown into the above liquid rapidly increases, 
and changes the sugar and water into vinegar. The plant 
w-ill form of itself in the first instance, but this will require 
a longer time. Afterwards it may be divided and trans- 
ferred to other quantities of the mixture, to accelerate the 
process of vinegar making. 

^^ i^P* Much of the vinegar which is sold in the 
Bliops is either malt vinegar, reduced with water, and 
strengthened with sulphuric acid, or acetic acid, also 
diluted, neither of which is very acceptable or wholesome. 

Tbbu is a story extant of a young wag who was invited to dine with a gentleman 
^ rather sadden temper. The dining room was on the second floor, and the principal 
^^ a toe roast fowl. AVhen the old gentleman undertook to carve it, ho found the 
^ll^ ratiier dull, and in a sudden paa»ion, flung it downstairs after the servant, 
.^^icreupon the young man seized the fowl, and with admirable dexterity, hurried 
■t after the knife. "What on earth do you mean?" exclaimed the old gentleman. 

*' ^ your pardon I" was the cool reply, "/ thought you were going to dine downstair*." 

To obtain Mint Sauce at any season of the year. 

When Mint is green and plentiful, cut it up fine, put 

It into empty pickle-bottles. Fill the bottles with vinegar, 

*-. and cork closely. The sugar can be added when 

required for use. No one can tell the difference 

• of mint so prepared, from that newly gathered 

from the bed. 



130 THE FA3£ILY SAVE-ALL : 

468 j^* For those who like Mint Sauce, the. above 
may be eaten with lamb or mutton chops. 

A PERSON complaining of the smallness of some chops brooght to table, an ineiff- 
.rigiblo wag observed that "Probably the sheep was fied upon short eommont!" 

Essence of Game, for serving with Hashed Game 

of any kind. 

Take the remains of any Game, with an equal quantity 
K)f Beef and Veal; salt, pepper, mace, nutmeg, cloves, 

__. bay-leaf, parsley, garlic, eschalots, and morela; 
some white wine, a little vinegar, and the juice 

^^ of lemons; put into a stew-pan; when on the 
.eve of boiling, slacken the fire, and leave the pan on the . 
hot cinders for six or seven hours ; pass the sauce through 
a sieve, and filter. 

470 T^S* Pieces of Game may be warmed in a Dutch 
oven, and be served with this sauce heated, and poured 
over it. 

471 U^ -^ capital addition to Game Pies, 

472 i^" The remains of Fowls or other Poultry, either 
Toast, stewed, or boiled, may be done in the same manner, 
with appropriate seasoning, and with onion, parsley, &€•> 
chopped fine. 

In attempting to carve a fowl one day, an American settler found cooAietti^ 
difficulty in separating its joints, and exclaimed against the man who had sdd UB 
.an old hen for a chicken. "My dear," said the enraged maifs wife, " don't talk lO 
much against the aged and respectable Mr. B. ; he sowed the first patch of cornth^ 
was planted in our settlement." " I know that," was the reply, " and / beUne Out •» 
Aen scratched it up I" 

To obtain Herbs of the Finest Flavour, 

When Herbs are to be kept for flavouring dishes, it is 

.obviously of the first importance that they should he 

~ . gathered at the right time, and dried in the M 

-«-. ^nanner. The seasons when the various herbs are 

in their primest flavour, are as follows: — ^Basil, 

from the middle of August to the middle of September; 

marjoram, during the month of July ; winter savory, the 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 131 

atter end of July, and throughout August; summer 
ftvory, the same ; thyme, of various kinds, during June 
ad July ; mint, the latter end of June, and during July ; 
ige, August and September; tarragon, June, July, and 
.Qgust; chervil, May, June, and July; burnet, June, 
Illy, and August ; parsley. May, June, and July ; fennel, 
16 same; elder flowers. May, June, and July; orange 
owers. May, June, and July. 

474 1^^ H^rbs should be gathered on a dry day, before 
le sun has been long upon them. When intended for 
reservation, they should be cleaned from dirt and dust, 
ttd dried gradually upon a warm stove, or in a Dutch 
ven. The leaves should then be picked off, pounded in 

mortar, passed through a hair sieve, and the powders be 
reserved separately in well-stoppered bottles. 

Tbb newspapers are ftill of adyertisements of plain eooU, We svl^^obq pretty cooks 
^ no opcaaion to advertise. 

Economical use of Nutmegs, 

Ip a person begins to grate a tfutmeg from the stalk end, 

will prove hollow throughout ; whereas the same nutmeg 

*,. - grated from the other end, would prove solid to 

the last. This is because the centre consists of 

*^ a number of fibres issuing from the stalk, and 

itending throughout the centre of the fruit. When the 

Edk is grated away, those fibres, being attached to no 

her part, loose their hold, and drop out, and a hollow 

formed through the whole nut. 

476 i^g* A very useful tincture of nutmeg, ready for 
imediate use, may be made, by adding three ounces of 
'uised or grated nutmeg to a quart of brandy. A smaller 
lantity may be made, by observing the same proportions, 
his will be a very grateful addition to aU compounds in 
hich nutmeg is used ; a few drops will suflice to impart 
flavour. 

Wi have heard of a would-be wit who k^t a nutmeg-grater on his table, in order 
Bay when a grtat man was mentioned, " There's a grater.'* 



132 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

The Very Best Curry Powder. 

Take of coriander seed, three ounces ; turmeric, three 

ounces ; black pepper, mustard, and ginger, one ounce of 

—.. - each ; allspice and lesser cardamoms, half-an- 

ounce of each ; cumin seed, a quarter of an oonee. 

• Put these ingredients into a cool oven, and let 

them remain all night ; the next morning, pound them in 

a marble mortar, and rub them through a fine sieve. 

'Thoroughly mix them together, and keep them in a well* 

stoppered bottle. 

478 1^^ For Curry Sauces, steep three ounces of Pie- 
powder in a quart of vinegar, or white wine, for ten dayts. 
and the liquor will be strongly impregnated with the- 
flavour of the powder. 

TnETtE has been a season of colds lately : Almost every third person one flie^ 
has "a cold fd 'is *eadt" and speaks through his 'dote I 

Home-made Cayenne Pepper ^ of superior Flavour. 

Those who desire to obtain good Cayenne Pepper, firee 
fi'om adulteration and poisonous colouring matter, sheold \ 
make it of English chilies. By so doing thef 
will obtain pepper of the finest flavour, without 
'** half the heat of the foreign. A hundred large 
chilies, costing only two shillings, will produce about tiro 
ounces of cayenne — ^thus the superior home-made is iB- 
cheap as the commonest red pepper. The following is the 
way to make it : — Take away the stalks, and put the podft 
into a colander ; set it before the fire for about twelve 
hours, by which time they will be dry. Then pour them 
into a mortar, with one-fourth their weight in salt, and 
pound and rub them till they are as fine as possible ; sift 
through a little muslin, and then pound the residue, vcA. 
sift again. 

A PARKER'S wife lately entered a draggist's shop, and handed him two prescripttoBS- 
to be prepared, one for her husband and the other for her cow. Finding, howetW* 
that she had not sufficient cash to pay fbr both, she took away that for tiie cot^ 
saying, " To-morrow voill do for my Inuband,** 



SECONDAEY COOKERY. 133 

A very useful Household Tincture from Scraps of 

Lemon-peeL 

Fill a wide-mouthed pint Lottie half-full of brandy, or 
•oof spirit, and whenever you have bits of waste Lemon 
-_. rind, pare the yellow part very thin, and drop it 
into the brandy. This will strongly impregnate 
^^ the spirit with essence of lemon, and form an 
Lcellent fl^-vouring for tarts, custards, &c. 

[x a party of ladies, on its being reported that a Captain Silk had arrived in 
rn, they exclaimed, with one exception, " AVhat a name for a soldier ! " " The 
lest name in the world for a Captain," rejohied the witty one; "for dUt can 
rer he toonM." 

Hmo to obtain Cheap and Nice Cress all the year 

round. 

"What is so nice and refreshing as to see a plate of 
Bally fresh Salad placed upon a table, and dishes nicely 

•.. , garnished with bits of green ? " But," you will 
say, "this cannot be done, parsley not always 
being in season." It may easily be done, in a 
lanner to supply both salads and ornaments for the 
Mq : — Take bottles, small baskets, plates, dishes, or any 
ther articles, and cover them with flannel, old pieces of 
•aize, cloth, or other absorbent material. The cloth should 
•e cut out, and sewn, so as to form a perfect shape for the 
rticle to be covered. Saturate the cloth with water after 
b covering is complete, and then thickly sprinkle or 
Teas thereon mustard seed, or pepper seed, so as equally 
pervade the surface, not too thick, nor too, scanty. In 

little while, the gluten of the seed will become softened, 
ud.fix the seed firmly to the cloth. Set it in a dark 
ttd moderately warm place, and moisten it occasionally, 
kiter the seeds have germinated, bring them by degrees 
> the light, and as their strength increases, expose them, 
i opportunity may occur, to the sun ; you will soon have 
fess from an inch to two inches long, growing upon an 
^amental shape, which may be set upon the table, and 



134 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

the cress cut from it as wanted. This may be done at 
any season of the year. 

** Sallt« what time do your folks dine ? " " As swm <u you gou awt^^ Sir; 
them's missuses orders!" 

An Excellent Pottage made from Pea-Shells, 

Take three quarts of water, in which meat has been 
boiled the previous day, and after seasoning it to taste 

—.. . with pepper and salt, set it on a fire. Add the- 
Shells of half a peck of Peas, and a bundle df 
^ herbs, including a good quantity of chives, or 
sweet leeks, and if possible a sprig or two of tarragonr- 
a small quantity only of the latter will be requisite. 
When the pea-shells are sufficiently boiled, which can be 
ascertained by trying a few of them, pour the whole 
through a colander, and when the liquor has been Strained 
off, pound the pea-shells and herbs in a mortar, returning 
them to the colander, and rubbing through what will pass 
easily. Add now a small cupful of green peas, two 
lettuces shred rather small, the more stalky the better, 
provided they are properly blanched, and a couple of 
sprigs of mint, and you will have a soup which would 
not disgrace any table, especially if a little fried bread is 
added, and an ounce of white sugar. 

483 jj^* If a thick soup is preferred, a little Flm 
and Butter or other thickening must be used. It is not 
necessary to have anything stronger than common broth 
as a foundation. No one who may partake of this soup,, 
properly prepared, will doubt the wisdom of making thfr 
most of what Providence has placed before us. 

A Receipt for Pwce Soup.— For every axigry word that's uttered agaJnst J0B» 
put in one mild one. This will be found to be a very useful soup, in fitsw 
troubled with irritable tempers. 

An Excellent Spring Vegetable, to be had for the 

Gathering. 
YouNa Stinging Nettles supply an excellent vegetable 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 135 

for the table, boiled, and eaten as greerib. They grow 
^. abundantly, and are not only highly relishable, 

but very healthful. Wash them thoroughly; 

drain them; and put them into boiling water, 
with salt; they will require about twenty to twenty-five 
minutes boiling ; they should then be well drained and 
-chopped, and served plain, or put back into the pan, 
seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and tossed for a 
minute or two in gravy or butter. This dish may be had 
throughout five months of the year ; for even when the 
.nettles have grown, their tops are tender. 

485 1^" Nettles are everywhere a pest to the farmer ; 
Aeir young shoots being employed for food, in the months 
of April and May, their propagation will be materially 
diecked, and the nuisance abated. 

486 it^ The young leaves of Mangel Wurzel, dressed 
in the same way, are extremely good. 

487 I^P" Nettles are also good food for Pigs and Cows ; 
and Turkeys may be fed upon chopped Nettles and Docks. 

A TOUBisT Stopping at a hotel saw on the bill of &re ** Fried Water Chicken.** 
Derirtaig to know what this meant, he ordered a dish, and finding it excellent, 
fecommended it to the rest of his party, ladies and alL They liked the dish 
wcmderfUly, and became frog-taXtn without knowing it. 

The Stems of the Artichoke, 

It is not generally known that the Stems of the Artichoke 

are as good as the part usually eaten, and that their 

-_. flavour is equally fine. In Italy, their stems are 

commonly stewed in gravy, like celery, and are 

considered very good. If they are cut off when 

the plant is about a foot high, and boiled in salt and water 

with the lid off, they make a capital dish, having all the 

flavour of the root. 

At an hotel at Hastings, Jerrold was dining with two friends, one of whom after 
dinner, ordered, among other pleasant thhigs, " a bottle- of old port" " Waiter," said 
Donglas, with that twinkle of the eye that was always a promise of wit, " Mind, now; 
a bottle of your old port, not your elder port." 



136 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

The Thistle an Edible Vegetable. 

Almost all the varieties of this plant are edible; bat 
those most eommonlj used for culinary purposes, are the 

—. marsh thistle (Carduus Palustris) and the nulk' 
thistle (Carduus Marianus)^ called also the "wiiite 

^^ or lady's thistle. Tlie stems of the marsh thirtk, 
gathered before the flowers are formed, when stripped t£ 
their rind are good, if boiled and eaten like Asparagiu, 
The milk thistle may, when young, be eaten as a salad. 
The young stalks peeled, and soaked in water, to remore 
the bitterness, are excellent when boiled. The scales of 
the cup are said to be equal to artichokes. The root is 
equally good during the winter and early spring. They 
are excellent stewed like celery, in good broth or gravy. 

A SERVANT being sent to match a china plate, returned with one of a voy 
different pattern. After scolding for some time, the mistress said, ** Stupid, do 7''^ 
not see tliat the two are entirely different?'* **No, mum,'* was the reply; "oaljr 
one of 'em is different." 

The Puff-ball an Esculent Fungus. 

The Giant Puff-ball (Lycopei^don Giganticum), gathered in 
its fresh and pulpy state, and fried with butter in slices, 

__. is remarkable for richness and delicacy of flaronr. 
They should be only seasoned with pepper and 

*"" salt ; or, a piece of butter, with pepper and saH 
may be put upon each slice, and they may then be baked, 
in a closely-covered pie-dish, for about three-quarters of 
ail hour. The fungus should be gathered in quite an early 
stage of growth, and before there is any trace of yellowness 
in its appearance, for then its flavour is destroyed. Th® 
puff-ball will not keep many hours after it is gathered; 
but slices may be cut from it as it grows, and thus an 
increased supply obtained. Slice them half-an-inch thick; 
have ready chopped herbs, pepper, salt, &c., as for an 
ordinary omelette of eggs ; dip the slices into yolk of egj> 
and sprinkle the herbs and condiments upon them ; fry in 
fresh sweet butter, and let them be eaten directly they are 



SECONDARY COOKERY. 187 

ken up. Tliey are much lighter and more digestible 
gB egg omelettes, and resemble brain fritters. 
491 IBT The Giant Puff-ball is very useful for Stapi-^ 
hgBeeSy being burnt, and the fumes driven into the hives ; 
only slightly discolours the combs, and the unpleasant 
mt soon passes off, upon exposing the combs to the air. 

ft never dreamed until lately that there was an aristocracy of appetites. We 
tteeard ia tiie market the following brief dialogue between an old lady and a littie 
l^-**lfory," said the lady, " 1 should like to buy some of those cucumbers, if you 
I carry them home." " No, don't, Grandma!" "Why not?" "Because I should 
aAamed to be seen carrying them home, when everybody knows thejf*re orUp a 
»lf a piece " 

n elegant way of serving up Cold Potatoes^ with 

Spinach or Cabbage, 

Mash Cold Potatoes^ and moisten them with a little 
hite sauce ; take Cold Cabbage or Spinach^ and chop very 
•-. finely; moisten them with brown gravy. Fill a 
tin mould with layers of potatoes and cabbage; 
'^^ cover the top, and put it into a stew-pan of 
iling water. Let it remain long enough to make the 
getables hot ; then turn them out and serve. This forms 
very pretty dish for an entree. 

493 J^* Cold carrots and turnips may be added to 
ups; or may bo warmed up separately, and put into 
oulds and layers, and served the same as the potatoes 
id cabbage described above. 

* I LOVB you like anything," said a young gardener to his sweetheart. " Ditto,'* 
A she. The ardent lover was sorely puzzled to understand the meaning of ditto, 
e next day, being at work with his father, he said, " Daddy, what is the meaning 
4itfeo?" "Why," said the old man, "this here is one cabbage-head, ahi't it?" 
r«i, Daddy." "Well, that ere's ditto." "Drat it!" ejaculated the indignant son, 
W tafkd mt a cabbage-head!'* 

To Improve Potatoes of Bad Quality. 

Potatoes are sometimes of very infei'ior quality, being 

Jficient in starch, on account of the haulm decaying before 

~ the tubers are ripe. The method to improve them 

by cooking is, to peel them, and boil them gently, 

^^ until nearly done. Then drain the water from 



138 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

them, and put them again upon the fire, submittmg thesr 
to a dry heat ; then mash them with a two-pronged /dt, 
instead of a spoon. The fork breaks them into pieces, 
and allows the water to escape, thus very much improving, 
what are called "waxy" potatoes. 

495 1^" A piece of lime, the size of a walnut, pot 
into the water in which inferior potatoes are boiled, will 
improve their quality. 

"Why is lore like a 'tatoe?" said Jane, 

To the gardener Pat, who was working hard by; 

" Faitli, Miss," replied Paddy, " the reason is plain, 

They're indigenous pUmtSy and both shoot from the eyef 

A very Nice and Novel Dish^ where Watercresses 

are Plentiful. 

Collect a tolerably large quantity of WatercnsHt; 
this may be done by children on a holiday, affording them 

__. , healthful recreation. Lay the cress in strong salt 
and water, to free it from insects. Pick and waA 

^^ nicely, and stew in water for about ten minutes* 
drain and chop, season with pepper and salt, add a little 
butter, and return it to the stew-pan until well heated- 
Before serving, add a little vinegar, and put around t^® 
dish sippets of toast, or fried bread. 

497 ^r The above made thin, is a good Svhstituie fi^ 
Parsley and butter, as a sauce for boiled fowl. 

498 l^g" Watercresses eaten plentifully are excelled* 
for consumption. 

An old physician was declaiming upon the propensity which a minority of "VbOV^ 
display for eating unripe firuit and vegetables. Said he, "There is not ^ ▼'Gset*'^'!^ 
growing in our gardens that is not best when arrived at maturity, and most ^ ^^^Id 
are positively injurious unless fully ripe." "I know one thing that ain*t so €^^^Sl 
when it's ripe as 'tis green," interrupted a little boy, in a very confident but mai^^^ 
manner. " Wliat's that?" sharply said the physician, vexed at having his prinC^Pl- 
disputed by a mere boy. " A cucumber! " responded the lad. The doctor wiijced- '^^ 
eyes, but said nothing. 

Endive may be Cooked as a Dinner Vegetable, 

Endive forms an excellent vegetable when cooked f^^ 
the dinner-table in the following manner :— Take t^^ 



SECONDABY COOKERY. 139^ 

i cutdives, not blanched, separate the leaves, and boil 
. , them in two waters, to extract the bitter. If still 
bitter, use a third water ; ten minutes before they 
"^ are ready, throw in a handful of sorrel leaves, 
en soft, take them out and strain them ; then put 
a back in the saucepan with a piece of butter the 

of a walnut ; season with .pepper and salt, and add 
ttle of any rich gravy. Shake them well over the 

and serve as hot as possible. 

(X) 1^" Or, boil the Endive^ then put it into cold 
er; drain the water off, and press it well out; take 
K)d table-spoonful of flour, and a piece of butter about 

size of a walnut; mix them well near the fire; put. 

mixture with the vegetable, and about a teacupful 
ravy or water ; add a little salt and pepper, and stew 
quite hot, tiiking care to avoid burning. 
01 l^g" An excellent Puree Soup may be made of 
live. 

There arc some happy moments in this lone 

And desolate world of ours, that well repay 
The toil of struggling through it, and atone 

For many a long sad night and weary day. 
They come upon the mind like some wild air 
Of distant music, when we know not where. 
Or whence, the sounds are brought from ; and their power, 
Though brief, is boundless^ 

Pea Tops used as an Ordinary Vegetable, 

. DELICIOUS vegetable for the table may bo obtained 
sowing Peas in shallow boxes, at intervals during 
. the winter months. They will come up slowly 
but strongly. When about five inches high, cut 
^ them for use, and boil them in the same way 

cabbage is done. Dish up plainly, to be eaten as 

ordinary green vegetable. 

" The clotlies do much upon the wit, as weather 
Does upon the brain ; and thence, sir, comes your proverb, 
Th* tailor make* the tnany 

Carrots with Flavour, and Carrots without. 
Then you are about to boil carrots, do not scrape them ; 



140 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

but first brush and then wash them. When copked, rub 
off the skin with the back of a knife. Tli© im- 
provement in the flavour is very great, becauae 
^^ the juice has been kept in. The carrot is more 
•affected by the ordinary system of peeling or scraping 
than the potato, because the former contains a large 
proportion of sugar, in a soluble form. Those who try 
this, will learn to estiDjate the difference of carrots with 
flavour, and carrots without. 

A TRA.vKLLEn oncc related with all seriotianess, to a company of peraon8,th8tke 
had passed through the Aa'o divisions of the earth ; and that among otber cnriMMo^ 
he had met with one of which no writer liad made mention. This, according to Ui 
account, was a huge cabbage, which had grown so broad and high that fifty anned 
riders might have stationed tliemselves under a single lea^ and i>erfiniiied ;tiMir 
manoeuvres. Some one who heard him, deeming tliis exaggeration not worth soina 
refutation, said witli assumed seriousness that lie, too, had been abroad as finr « 
Japan, where, to his astonishment, he saw more than three hundred ccqiper-smiflil 
at work making a single kettle, and within the same were five hun^Ued wkkb 
polishing it. "Nonsense!" exclaimed the traveller, "what possible use could tiMj 
Jhave for so large a kettle?" "Use! Why, to boil the cabbage which you saw!" 

The Rhubarb Leaf as a Green Vegetable, 

Take the leaf (the youngest is the best) and divest it 

of the five stems that run to the right and left hand, and 

_-. up the centre in connexion with the finiit (those 

stems containing nearly all the fruity qualities of 

°"^ the rhubarb itself). The leaves should then be 
placed in boiling water, and kept boiling fast for twenty 
minutes, after which well press them to exclude all liqucff, 
and with the necessary condiments of the table it will be 
found a welcome substitute for ordinary vegetable, while its 
medicinal properties as a mild aperient are upon a par with 
the rhubarb. 

505 ^^ To please the palates of the most fastidious 
and lovers of Spinach^ it may be dished up as that article 
in the following way : — After boiling and pressing, place it 
in a saucepan without water, let it simmer for ten minutes 
with a small quantity of butter, pepper, and salt, and when 
done it will puzzle some of the finest connoisseurs to detect 
the difference. 

QriN had a gardener who was very slow. " Thomas," said he. " did von ever see 
a snail?" "Certainly." "Then," r^oined the wit, "you muit have me* Sn,- 
for you could never ovtHaU him." aw ua>c mw «««, 



PICKLED FRUITS. 141 

4n excellent Pickle of Unripe CodlinSy Plums ^ Damsons^ 
Apricots, Peaches, Nectarines, or other Unripe 
Fruit 

Make a brine of salt and water strong enough to 
an egg j boil and skim it. When cold, put full- 
grown Codlins into it, which have not begun 
to ripen. Let them soak three days ; then 
make a fresh pickle, and soak them in it. 
)n thfe tenth day, take them out, wipe them, and carefiiUy 
mt out the stalk-piece of each whole, so that it can bo 
put in -again. Then with a scoop remove all the core 
nd pippins, without piercing through the eye at the other 
3n4. Then mix together equal parts of mustard-seed 
nd cumin-seed, half the quantity of coriander-seed, 
NHne sliced horseradish, some chilies pounded fine 
wth salt, some Jamaica pepper, some mace, and a few 
cloves. Fill up the place of the core with this 
luxtore, then put the stalk-piece in its place, and tie it 
^ith a string. Put a good quantity of the mixture 
nto a stone jar, with a sufficient quantity of vinegar; 
Bt it boil, and put in the codlins whilst it is boiling 
lot. When cold, cover the jar. Next day, uncover 
fc* and put it into an oven, and keep it there until they 
re of a nice colour. When cold, close the jar in the 

4ual manner. 

Unripe Plums, Damsons, Apricots, Peaches, Nectarines, 

nd all other kinds of Unripe Fruit may be pickled in 

he same manner, the stones being removed, after soaking 

tt brine, with as little injury to the fruit as possible. 

507 it^ Considerable quantities of these fruits fall 
fom the trees unripe ; and, provided they are sound, 
^y are as good for pickling as if fresh gathered. Wash 
^ cold water those that have lain in the ground, previously 
patting them into the brine. 

508 1^^ When pickles prove too soft, they may be 
^^ened by pouring off the vinegar and boiling with 

G 2 



142 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

it a large lamp of alum ; when coldy it is to be poured 
back upon the pickles. 

A OEMTLEicAN, Oil being asked what he had for dinner, replied, **A len vife 
roasted, and the min of man for sauce." What did his dinner etmOst of? Of CQom 
you giro it up, and here's the answer— a spare rib and tq)pk-ataioo. 

A Deliciotis Pickle of Eggs, 

Take two dozen of hens' eggs, an equal number of 
turkeys' eggs, and the same number of guinea fowls'. 

_. . Boil them twenty minutes. When cold, take 
off the shells. Add to them six or eiecht 'dozen <^ 

^^ plovers' or pigeons' eggs, also boiled hard and 
shelled. Have ready an ounce each of cloves and mace, 
four or five nutmegs sliced, an ounce of whole pepper, 
two ounces of ginger, half-a-dozen cloves of garlic, 
four ounces of salt, and four or five bay-leaves. Put 
the eggs into a stone jar, with this seasoning between 
them. Then pour over them sufficient boiling vinegar 
to cover them. When cold, close the jar in thp nsoal 
way. Let them stand two days ; then pour off the 
pickle, boil it, and return it to the eggs. Bepeat this 
twice, thus giving the vinegar three boilings after the 
first ; each boiling at an interval of two days. Close 
the jar in the usual manner. 

510 ^" This pickle may be made with Hens' Eggs 
alone, or any other kind of eggs ; but a variety of eggs 
is preferable. pickled eggs, formerly, were much 
esteemed. 

Sink not beneath reverses. Play the game of li& boldly. Here, at least, 1^ 
may sometimes copy the gambler, who doubles his stakes as ^^ {|3 be loses, 

A very nice Substitute for Capers. 

Put green and freshly gathered Nasturtiums^ wiih 
the little bit of stalk attached to them, into a brine 

_-. made of salt and water. Let them stand Bi* 
days. Then boil some white wine vinegar J" 

^*^ a stone jar, with sliced horseradish, a slicew 
nutineg, some grains of allspice, a little jnnace, soxoe 



PICKLED VEGETABLES. 143 

pper, and a handful of salt. Pour it boiling hot over 
3 Nasturtiums. 

512 8^* The Seed Pods of the Radish also make a 
od substitute for capers. 

rivss shonld always sit up for their husbands, instead of allowing the servants 
io 80. It makes two hours* difference in the time of their arriwti. 

A very nice Pickle of Crab Apples. 

Gather the Crabs while they are still very hard, 
lel them, remove the eyes, and put them into a brine 
-. of salt and water that will float an egg. Let 
them stand six days, then change them into 
®^^ a fresh brine, in which they must stand six 
ys more. Put them into a jar with a little mace. 
)il some double distilled vinegar with some sliced 
irseradish, a sliced nutmeg, some allspice, and a few 
9ves, and pour it boiling hot over the apples. When 
lite cold, put a cork into the jar. Boil the vinegai* 
;aiii every two days for ten days, and pour it each time 
►iling hot over the apples. When cold, cork and 
adder the jar. After three months tliey will be 
:ceUent. 

^ old lady (so says an American paper) invited a dandy from the town to the 
intry to dine with her, and on the tabic she placed an enormous apple pie. 
)ear me, ma^am," said the gent, *' how did you manage to make such a monstrous 
I? " M Easy enough," was the quiet reply, " we make up the crust in a iD?ieelbarroWy 
£el it under an apple-tree, and then sTiake the /ruit into it!** 

Pickled Vegetable Marrows, 

Cut the Marrows in thick slices, and salt them twelve 

UTS, and then dry them in the sun ; then boil three 

Q.. quarts of vinegar with a pound of the flour of 

mustard, a good handful of black pepper, a 

few allspice and .cloves, thirty-six bay-leaves, 

d a stick of horseradish cut in slices ; boil them all 

Jether until the mixture is of the thickness of cream, 

Ur it hot over the marrow, and cover close. Add 

the above one pound of mustard-seed, half an ounce 

long pepper, quarter of an ounce of mace, and nine 



144 THE FAMILY SAVEnALL : 

green capsicums, boiled in a pint of vinegar with a 
tea-spoonful of cayenne. The pickle will be fit for uflo 
in six months. 

The economy of a household is a distinct duty from that of making r>wwtai<M fgr 
the support of it. It is the province of the wife to manage the domestic eoneenit 
just as it is the part of the husband to earn wages tor tbe maiataiiaiice of his fudly* 

An excellent Pickle of Walnut^husks^ 

The green outer husks that are removed when walnats 
are first making their appearance early in October, 
_. . make an excellent pickle, superior to the whole 
walnut. The peels that fall off late in the 
season, and are turning black, are too ol^* 
and stringy for pickling. The process of pickling ic 
much the same as that adopted for young walnuts ; aaXi 
is sprinkled over them to extract the bitter flavour, whi<7 Ji 
is less intense now than when the fruit is unformed. Wh^^i 
they turn black, they are ready for the vinegar 
the spice. The very best vinegar should be used 
pickles. 

Accustom yourself to treat your servants with kindness and humanity. Qb^ ^ 
Uie ancients said, «0e shonid look upon them as uitfortunats JHmd$. CooHcr Xt^^ 
you owe only to ctiance the great difference that exists between yon and tiiom; ^^9 
not make them feci their condition, and do not aggravate their trouble. Notiil^p ^ 
so low as to be haughty to one who is under you. Use no liarah ezpressioiii; t9x^ 
mode of speaking should be unknown to a person of a polished end ddleata rsta^.^' 
As aervice is established contrary to the natural eqmdity of mankind, it is our dK^^ 
to sweeten it. Have we any right to wish our servants to be without fluiiti wbn 'V* 
iiafly show them that we are not fiiultless? 

An excellent Vinegar from Gooseberries, 

To every quart of moderately ripe Gooseberries, acl<i 

liiree quarts of water, and bruise the fruit well ; stir "Up 

. the whole, and let it stand for twenty-four hoars, 

then strain it through a canvas bag. One poaii<l 

of brown sugar must be added to every gallon 

of the liquor, which being well mixed up, should be p*** 

in a cask or other vessel to ferment. 

517 ISS* RcispheiTy Vinegar is made in the same w»y» 
and will be found very useful in families. 

518 ifer Weak Vinegar may be strengthened by allow- 



PICKLED FISH.' 145 

ing it to Freeze; the watery portion congeals first, and 
may be removed ; the portion that remains will be found 
to be greatly increased in strength. This, of course, can 
be done conveniently only in the winter time, when, if 
the vinegar of pickles is found to be weak, it may be im- 
proved. Vinegar may also be improved, when its flavour 
is not good, by the addition of aromatic or pungent 
substances, such as Chilies or Tarragon, 

An Irishman said, if a few gooseberries gave so fine a flavour to an apple pie, it 
*«>ld be a darling of an apple pie tiiat was made of gooteberriei eiUirtly. 

An excellent Method of Pickling Salmon^ so that it 
will keep good Twelve Months, 

Cut the fish across into slices about an inch and a half 
r two inches thick. Then rub over each piece with the 
^ - following Seasoning: — Pound an ounce of mace, 
one of Jamaica pepper, one of cardamom seeds, 
half an ounce of allspice, and a drachm of cloves. 
[ix this with half a pound of bay*salt, and two grated 
itrnegs. Add also a little powdered bay-leaf, and a very 
nail quantity of dried and pounded mint. Rub this 
masoning well into every piece of Salmon, then cover each 
iece with beaten yolk of egg, and strew seasoning over 

again. Fill a small frying-pan half-full of olive oU^ 
ad fiy one piece of salmon at a time until it is of a rich 
ellow-brown colour. As each piece is fried, put it upon 

hair sieve. When all are fried, let them drain until 
1^ are quite cold. Then put at the bottom of a stone 
^r a small bit of fennel, and a little sprig of tarragon ; 
pen these a layer of pieces of salmon ; on these a bay-leaf, 
Mother little branch of fennel, and another small sprig of 
Uragon ; then repeat until all the s'almon is laid in. Fill 
be jar with vinegar, an inch above the fish, and over this 
•our a thick surface of olive oil. 

520 Ji^ This is a rare but not an expensive prepara- 
faxi ; and, as it will keep a long time, and supply a capital 



146 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

zest for breakfast, luncheon, or supper, it is worthy of 
being tried. 

" Breaking hearts 

Kequire a drapery to conceal their throbs 
From cold inquiring eyes : and it must he 
Ample and rich, that so their gaze may not 
Explore what lies beneaUi." 

A Savoury Relish of Pickled Sprats. 

Take ofr the heads of a number of small Sprats, and 
wash the bodies well. Strew a quantity of salt over them, 
_-. and let them lie in a pan all night. Take them 
out next day, and wipe them well. Then put into 
a stone jar, or an iron saucepan, a quantity of 
vinegar in proportion to the quantity of sprats. If the 
vinegar is in a stone jar, put it into an oven to boil; if 
in an iron vessel, place it over the fire. Put into the 
vinegar, a bunch of parsley-root, some tarragon leayes, a 
sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, an onion stuck with 
cloves, and four or five eschalots. Let the vinegar boil with 
these herbs, then strain it into another stone jar, and let 
it get cold. Meanwhile, have ready some wide-mouthed 
pickle or anchovy bottles. Put a layer of sprats at the 
bottom of each bottle, then a bay-leaf, then a pinch of salt, 
a grain or two of allspice, and a few peppercorns; then 
another layer of sprats, until the bottles are full. Thea 
fill them with the vinegar when it is quite cold. Cork th© 
bottles, put bladder over the corks, and sealing-wax upoi*= 
the bladder. 

522 1^^ Smelts pickled in the same way are excellent " 

Good temper is like a sunny day, it sheds a brightness ovor ererytUog; 
is the svreetener of toil, and the soother of disquietude. 

A Savoury I^ckling of Oysters, 

As soon as the Oysters are opened put them into a ste^^^ 

pan with their liquor, and place them over a brisk fir^ 

__. . Do not let them boil ; but the moment they becoBC*-^ 

white and firm, take them out, and careMly r^' 

move the beards. Then strain the liquor into * 

stone jar with double its quantity of white wine vineg»^' 



PICKLKD MEAT. 147 

quarter of its quantity of mushroom ketchup, five or 
jschalots, two cloves of garlic, a couple of bay-leaves, 
some leaves of tarragon. Put this into an oven for 
j-quarters of an hour, then take it out and let it stand 
it is cold. In the meantime, mix a spoonful or two of 
lered loaf-sugar with an equal quantity of salt, and 
ikle the mixture over the oysters. When these are 
I cold, put them carefully into ajar with a handful of 
: peppercorns, the same quantity of grains of allspice, 
ich of bay-leaves, and a few leaves of tarragon. When 
?^inegar is quite cold, pour it upon the oysters, cork 
ar, and tie bladder over the cork. 

4 1^^ The pickle liquor may be boiled up occasionally, 
ed to cool, and poured over the oysters again; this 
tend to preserve them. 

5 1^^ A spoonful of this liquor will be a great 
ion to any plain Hash, or conmion Ragout, 

S 1^* Muscles and Cockles may be pickled in the 
manner, but neither of these should be kept long. 

is an oyster the roost contradictory thing ? Because he's got a heard idthont 
and you take him out of bed, to tuck him in» 

To Restore Salt Pork that is Tainted, 

warm weather, the brine upon pickled pork frequently 
nes sour, and the meat tainted. Boil the brine, skim 

it well, and pour it back on the meat boiling hot. 

This will restore the pork, even when it is much 
' injured. 

3 i^p^ In summer the sooner meat is salted after it 
Ued, the better. In winter it will eat shorter and 
rer if kept a few days, until its fibre has become set 
hort. Pork requires a longer time to pickle than Beef, 

should starvation be unkno>sm in the desert? Because of the sand-which-ia 
But how came the sandwiches there? Noah sent Hamt and his descendants 
id muutered. 

An excellent Marmalade of Carrots, 
^E any number of CaiTots (those of the months of 




148 TUE FA3IILY SAVE-ALL : 

September and October are the best), wash them thoroughl_ 
_. . in cold water, cut off the tops and tails, and wi 
the carrots clean. Cut them into pieces about 1 
^ inches in length, dividing the whole circnmfere: 
into four parts, if the carrots are large, and into three 
two if they are small, taking care to throw awaj the 
that is decayed. Put these bits into a pan, with as mn i— » h 
water only as will prevent the bottom of the pan froacn 
burning its contents. Cover them close, and let them st^^^w 
over a moderate fire until they are very tender. Masli 
them thoroughly, and pass them through a hair siev^c 
Then prepare and clarify a syrup, using for every pouxxd 
of pulp, a pound of sifted sugar and half a pint of wat^T. 
Clarify, and boil until it adheres to the spoon. Put in tise 
pulp, boil it, evaporating the moisture, until it forms a 
thick marmalade. 

630 HS^ This will keep for two years or more; moA. 
it is strongly recommended as a confection for the breakfcuit 
table. It is excellent for persons of scorbutic habit. 

An amateur of music (who aspires to be a wag) remarked the other dajf , '^"^^ 
reference to some strawberries upon the tabic, **that he should e^Joy a poMl0 ^ 
strawberries all to himself, inasmuch as it would be a nmtical as well as « ftatlft ira*ti 
for it would in fact be a solo on the hcnU-boy" 

Preserve of whole Strawberries. 

Strawberries ripen and decay very fast, and are often- 

destroyed for the want of some easy means of using thetcu 

_-.. , Take an equal weight of fruit and pounded losS 

sugar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle 

over them half the sugar ; give the dish a gentle 

shake, in order that the sugar may reach the wide part o^ 

the fruit ; next day, make a thin syrup with the remaindo^ 

of the sugar, and add one pint of red currant-juice Irf'^ 

from last year's preserves, to every three pounds of stnir — ' 

berries. In this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. -^^ 

Choose the largest strawberries, not over-ripe. Very niee^ 

served in thin cream^ in glasses. 

Mrs. Surra has company to dinner, and there are not strawberries enough, 
she looks at Mr. S. with a sweet smile and offers to help him (at the same tteie k' 
him gently with her slipper under the table) . He always replies,—" No, I thank joa, 
tbej don*t agree with me." 



PRESERVED FRUIT, ETC. 149 

An Excellent and Cheap Jam of Blackberries. 

To every pound of the fruit, add half a pound of coarse 

>i8t sugar, and boil for three-quarters of an hour, A 

_. silver or wooden spoon should be used fw stirring 

it, as iron spoils the colour. This is a plain homely 

method, so cheap and easily managed, as to be 

acticable in every cottage. ' There is no fruit more 

latary fbr children than blackberries. 

533 OS* A portion of fine Loaf Sugar may be used, 

I equivalent quantity of the brown being withheld. 

584 $^ Some persons consider a lemon flavour imparted 
• the jam an improvement. The rind and juice of one 
men will be sufficient for twelve pounds of jam. 

585 j^* It is to be regretted year after year, to witness 
le excessive profusion of their own fruit, neglected by 
L« poor in rural districts, when, for the trouble of gather- 
^ it, which might in fact be made a pleasure to the 
^Idren, and a trifling outlay for a few pounds of brown 
igtr, delicious treats for the winter meal could be pro- 
u*ed.- No costly, preserving pans, no charcoal fires are 
JJUired; a homely saucepan will answer every purpose. 

" He that is out of clothes is out of fashion ; 
And oat of fashion is out of countenance ; 
And out of countenance is out of wit." 

H^ndfall JPearSy slightly damaged are excellent for 

Baking, 
fciosT keeping Pears, such as the Beurre Ranee, Easter 
Urr^, Swan's Egg, Chaumontel, and St. Germain, are 
^. excellent when baked without any addition; the 
juice forms a rich syrup, without sugar. They 
require merely to be wiped clean and put into a 
it ; if heaped up, so much the better. In this way, 
ndfallen fruit, otherwise useless, may be turned to good 
Jount. The Marie Louise Pear is a first-rate one for 
iwing. 

^T Leybarn there was painted over a shop, " Bride cakes, and Fujural biacuits." 



150 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

A Capital Apple Jamy that will keep Five Years, to 
be made in Plentiful Seasons, 

Take a wide jar, and fill it not quite full with water ; 

cut the Apples, unpeeled, into quarters, take out the cores, 

_. but collect the pips, bruise them, and put them 

into the jar with the apples ; tie paper over it, 

and put it into a moderately hot oven. When 

quite soft and cool, pulp the apples through a sieve, with 

a wooden spoon. To each pound of fruit, after pulping, 

put three-quarters of a pound of crushed sugar; boil it 

gently until it will jelly. Put it into jars, and tie over 

with bladder. If to keep for a short time, less sugar 

will do. 

Thebe is no error more fatal than imagining that pinching a youth in his podcet- 
money will teach him frugality. On the contrary, it will occasion his mnning into 
extravagance with so much more eagerness when he comes to have mcm^ in hii 
own hands; as pinching him in his diet wHl make his appetite only the more rapidooS' 
If you put into the hands of your child more money than is snitahle to his age and 
discretion, you must expect to find that he has thrown it away upon what is not 00I7 
idle, but hurtful. A certain, small, regular income any child aboye six yean of 1^ 
ought to have. When he comes to be capable of keeping an account, he ongiit to 
be obliged to do it; he will thereby acquire a habit of fni«^ty, attrition, nA 
prudence, that will be of service to him through his whole life. On ^e ccxAnajt 
to give a young person money to spend at will, without requiring any aocoont of ttf 
ia leading, or rather forcing, him into extravagance and folly. 



PABT IL 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 



no to save Half your Coals, and obtain Better Fires 
than under the old system. 

BsFOBE lighting the fire in the morning, thoroughly 
nn out the grate ; laj a piece of thick paper, cut to 
|.. the form and size of the grate, at the bottom ; 
pile up fresh coal, nearly as high as the level 
of the top bar; the pieces should be about the 
i of small potatoes or walnuts, but- this is not absolutely 
tessarj ; the larger lumps should be laid in front, the 
iUer ones behind ; then put a liberal supply of paper, 
shavings, and sticks, on the top, and cover the whole 
ih yesterday's cinders, adding a very little coal. Thus, 
will be seen, the fire is to be lighted at the top, 
e results will be not only satisfactory, but astonishing, 
le fire lights up at once, without further trouble, 
le centre of the fuel soon catches, ^nd the inferior 
ata of coal ignite. The fire spreads downwards, and 
3 smoke is forced to pass through the upper layers of 
rning coal ; the consequence is, there is perfect com- 
stion, the great volume of gas and smoke usually sent 
' from fires, and which consists of the most combustible 



152 THE FAMILY SAVE- ALL : 

part of coal, being thoroughly consumed, and yicldixig 
heat. A fire so made will go on burning for six, eiglixt, 
or even ten hours, without poking, without adding fresh 
coal, or any attention whatever. There is little or xio 
smoke, and the fire gives out a pleasant and uniform glo^w. 
One fair trial of this system will satisfy everybody ; sLnd 
the servant will soon find that it will not only save lier 
master an incredible quantity of coals, but that it y^ill 
also save her a vast amount of trouble : the bell will 1>& 
rung less frequently for the coal-scuttle, and the hearth 
will not require sweeping so often ; the fire, if properly 
made, will never require to be relighted during the day 5 
there will be no soot-flakes on the furniture, and so littlo 
even in the chimney, that the services of the sweep "wil^ 
seldom be requited. 

539 1^" It will sometimes be nece«0aiy to loosen^ oi 
stir slightly the upper part of the fire, if it begins to caJc^ i 
but the lower part must not be touched, otherwise it -w^^ 
burn away too soon. 

540 1^ The above method of lighting fires, is "best 
adapted for parlours, drawing rooms, libraries, and offices, 
where the fires are not required for cookery, immediatC'lj 
after being lit, as the heat is developed more graduaUyV 
than in the old method of under-lighting. Deep grates 
are best suited for the new system. 

541 i^p* Fires upon this plan may be regulated to tb© 
temperature of the weather, and to the number of hours 
they are required to burn. For instance: — When th^ 
weather is very cold, and the fire requires to bo lit eBxlyy 
and kept up until late, put a much deeper layer of co**^ 
in the bottom— quite up to the tap bar ; when the weather 
is mild, &c., then lay the coals only up to the second b^* 
from the top, and so on. 

542 i^g* When you have tried this experiment a fo*^ 
times, and are fully satisfied with it, have pieces of She^^ 
Iron, cut to fit the bottom of ypur grates, instead of th^ 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 153 

T. This will save the trouble of cutting the papers 
r, and the sheet iron will lagt an indefinite time. 

a fire is giAng out, Miss FiUdns." " I know it, Mr. Green; apd if yon would 
isely, you woald follow its example." It is unnecessary to add, tliat Qxeen 
aakied to sit up with that young lady again. 

Another Important Saving in Coals. 

[lESERVE the coal ashes which are usuallj thrown away 
orthless. When you have a sufficient quantity, add 
to them an equal amount of small coal ^roni. your 
cellar, and then pour on a little water, and mix 
" with a shovel. The best way is, instead of throwing 
ishes into the ash-pit, to throw them on one side in 
cellar, where they may be easily mixed with ihe^ coal 
, Use this compost at the back of your fire, or for 
ing on the top of the fire, as in Hint 53&. It will burn 
btly and pleasantly; only a little dust will vemain 
tnsumed ; and thus the trouble of sifting wilJj b& saved. 

usTBRathome?" "No, sir, he's out." "Mistress at home?** " No, sif^ she's 
■" Then, as I'm dripping wet, I'll step i|i and sit bx the fire." **^Nm'$ out 

Clear and Economical Fires for Cookery ^ 8fc, 

' you live near a dep6t where coke can he prociii?ed, 
can obtain no cheaper fuel. By making your fbre. as 
directed in Hint 538, and replenishing it with bits 
of coke, you will find that the cost of fUel 
^ will be less than one half ; thu% if youy win,t^*'s 
iimption amounts to six tons of coals at £1 a ton, you 
in one winter save £3, and have every reason to, thctnk 
5 Family Save- All " for giving you so vcduable a ffint, 

£RTAiN barrister, who was remarkable for coining faito court with dirty hands* 
ed that he "had been turning over CoU.*^ "I ttufv^ bwra thought it l^d 
oaltf*' was the reply of a neighbouring counseL 

Cheap Fuel, Very Useful where Coals are Dear. 

?JE bushel of small coal, or saw-dust, or both mixed, 
bushels of sand, one bushel and a half of common clay. 



e 



154 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

Let them be mixed together with water, like ordinary |^ 
„, mortar ; the more they are stirred and mixed 
together the better. Make them into balls or 
^^ with a mould, make in the shape of bricks; pile 

them in a dry place, and when they are hard and 

sufficiently dry, they may be used. 

546 1^^ A fire cannot be kindled with them; but 

when the fire is quite lighted, put them on behind, with i^ 

coal or two in front, and they will be found to keep up ^ 

strong and more lasting heat than any fuel of the commo^E^ 

kind. 

A FXBfON meeting a coal-merchant, inquired what a chaldron of ooali vosl^L « 
come to? The coal-mcrcliant bef^an to consider, and, suspecting that the qonti^^^^ 
was put to him from idle curiosity, gravely answered, *'Sir, if theyYe wdf tans*-'^ 
theyil come to ashes T' 

JEconomical Method of Storing CoaU. 

When coals are shot down into a cellar through th^ 
circular aperture, they form a conical heap under it ; anc — — *» 
_. as is always the case with loose materials, th— — ^° 
largest pieces roll farthest down, on the outside cz:^ 

^** the heap, the smallest occupying the top. Wei ^ 

the coals to be used from this heap as it is formed, th ^ 
result would be that all the largo pieces of coal would b ^ 
taken first, and towards the last there would only be smo^^^ 
coals. To prevent this, a person, called a trimmer, is 8en::2=^| 
by the coal-merchant, whose business is to mix the sma 
and large together properly, by throwing the whole inter — ' 
mixed into the end of the vault. But unless the trinmie 
be looked after, he is very apt to neglect doing this 
perly. He should therefore be request<?d to thoroughl 
mix the coal, that the large and the small may be consume- ^ 
together throughout the supply. 

" Why don't you wheel that barrow of coals, Ned?" said a miner to one of 9crf^ 
boys ; " it's not a very hard job ; there is an inclined piano to relieve you." ** Ah f * ' 
replied Ned, " the plane may be inclined, but lumg ms if I amV 

An Invaluable Hint, by which the Labour of 

Washing may be greatly diminished. 
Pour upon half a pound of soda two quarts of boiling 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 155 

in an earthenware pan ; take half a pound of soap, 

shred fine ; put it into a saucepan with two quarts 

of cold water ; stand it on a fire till it boils ; and 

* when perfectly dissolved and boiling, add it to 

rmer. Mix it well, and let it stand till cold, when 

the appearance of a strong jelly. Let the linen be 

1 in water, the seams and any other dirty part rubbed 

usual way, and remain until the following morning. 

Dur copper ready, and add to the water about a pint 

full of the above preparation ; when lukewarm put 

ir linen, and allow it to boil twenty minutes. Rinse 

;he usual way, and that will be all that is necessary 

it clean, and keep it a good colour. 

The above Hint is invaluable to housekeepers. 



in the same sense as "a nod is as good as a wink 
lind horse," no benefit can bo derived from the above 
t tinjing it! 

{fDREss, who was employed In the family of a Governor, said to him with 
• Only think, your excellency, liow small a sum of money would make m« 

" How little, madam ? " said the Governor. " Oh ! dear sir, twenty pounds 
ake me perfectly happy." " Then I will send it to you to-morrow ; upon 
irstanding that that amount will make your happiness perfect." " I thank 

assure you it will," she said, and took her departure. She was no sooner 
he door than she thought she might as well have asked and received forty ; 
ipped hack, saying, " PUase make it forty." " Ah I I am released," said the 
% " you have proved that the twenty would not make you happy ; nor would 
r sum." 

ght-cap, made in a moment^ costing nothing, and 
admirable for Railway Travellers, 

IE your pocket-handkerchief, and laying it out the 

quare, double down one-third over the other part. 

Then raise the whole, and turn it over, so that 

the third folded down shall lie underneath. Then 

take hold of one of the folded corners, and draw 

int towards the centre; then do the same with the 

as in making a cocked hat, or a boat of paper. Then 

lold of the two remaining corners, and twisting the 

f the handkerchief, continue to roll it until it meets 

oubled corners brought to the centre, and catches 



156 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 



them up a little. Lift the whole and you will see the t lori 

of a cap, which, when applied to the head, will cover tin 
head and ears, and, being tied under the chin, will not e ^Dine 
off. Very little practice will enable you to regulate the 
size of the folds, so as to suit the head. 

A v£MEBABLE ladj of a celebrated physician, one day casting her eye out of Ou 
window, observed her husband in the funeral procession of one of his patients^ »t 
which she exclaimed: **I do wish my husband would keep away firom ffeb 
processions; it appears too much like a tailor carrying home his toork." 

Ends of Candles converted into Night Lights. 

Supposing a few night lights to be wanted in placed 
where they cannot be procured, they may be made from 
p.. . the ends of candles in the following manner. 
Collect a few old pill-boxes ; make as many fine 
cottons as you have boxes, and wax the cotton 
with bees'-wax ; cut them to the requisite lengths, and fix 
them in the centre of the boxes, through a pin-hole in 
the bottom. Melt the grease (if mixed with a little wax 
the better) and fill the boxes, keeping the cotton in a 
central position while the grease cools. When set to bom, 
place in a saucer, with sufficient water to surround the 
bottom, about the sixteenth of an inch in depth. 

" The candles you sold me last were very bad," said Suett, to a tallow-ehandler. 
" Indeed, sir, I am sorry for that/' ** Yes, sir, do you know they burnt to the middle, 
and would then hum no longer.''^ **Tou surprise me; what, sir, did they go. oat?" 
" No, sir, no; they burnt shorter.** 

The Turkish Bath upon a small scale. 

Place the patient upon a large cane4)ottomed chair, . 
and tie a large blanket around his neck, so as to completely " 

__. envelope the chair and his body ; underneath the ^ 
chair, place a saucer full of alcohol (spirits ofS. 

^^^ wine) and set a light to it. The space within—* 
the blanket will soon be filled with hot air, and a profuse^ 
perspiration will be produced. 

553 J^^ A similar bath may be produced by substi-— — 
tuting for the alcohol, a simple invention lately set on fooi0^ 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 157 

by Price's Patent Candle Company. It consists of a flat 
tin saucer, filled with the purest stearine, and having a 
dozen wicks, supported by tin tubes. 

554 Jf^ This is good for rheumatic affections; or to 
prevent chills resulting in serious colds. The patient, aft^r 
enduring the perspiration for some time, until he begins 
to feel it oppressive, should be rubbed thoroughly dry, 
and be put in a warm bed, between blankets. 

The qnantity of water consumed daily in London is eqnal to the contents of a lake 
fifty acres in extent, and of a mean depth of three feet { this quantity is by no meaiui 
proportionate to the great and growing wants of thd population. According to the 
ittt returns, there were 70,000 houses without any supply whatever. 

Beds for Poor Persons, 

.Beech leaves are recommended for this purpose, as 
--. they are very springy, and will not harbour 
vermin. They should be gathered on a dry 
•* day in the autumn, and be perfectly dried. 

556 83^ The chaff of newly-thrashed oats also forms 
'W'holesome spring beds. 

557 l^T Very luxurious and refreshing beds are in 
'Universal use in Italy, consisting of an absolute pile of 
Xiaattresses, filled with the elastic spathe of Indian corn; 
V^ut the beds made of beech leaves are not a whit behind 
^liem in all desirable qualities, while the fragrant smell 
fiif the leaves is quite refreshing. 

558 1!^^ Feathers, when put into beds in an imperfectly 
oured state, are unhealthy to persons sleeping upon them. 
Old feather beds, on which dirt and disease have long 
Xingered, are commonly bought, and the feathers mixed, 
«ind sold as new, often causing sickness and death in 
lamilies. 

An American sitting on a very hard seat in a railway carriage, said, '* Wal, they 
ten me ^eae here cashions air staffed with feathers. They may have put the feathers 
in 'em, but dam me if / ckmH thmk ffuy've U/t the/owU in too/** 

An Effectwe Method of Airing Beds and Bedding, 
Fill a stone bottle holding from one to three gallons 



158 THE FAMILY SATE-ALL : 

with boiling water, securing the cork by tying it down 
— . safely with several thicknesses of stout linen, to 

prevent either moisture or steam from escaping; 

place it in an upright position upon the mattress, 
surrounded by bolster and pillows, and over these place 
the bed with the feathers, as far as possible, immediately 
round the bottle, leaving it uncovered to allow dampness 
to pass off. The bottle will support great warmth forty- 
eight hours in severe weather, and the water need not 
be replenished, except in special cases. 

PrniNO the liigli price of coals, a fircntleman meeting; his coal-merchant, inquired 
whether it was a projier time to lay in a stork ? The knight of the black diamonds 
shook his head, obser>ing, " Coals are coals now, sir." To which his customer replied, 
*' I'm very glad to hear it, for the last you sent me were all slaUJ" 

An invaluable French Receipt for Inveterate Coughs, 

costing little more than the trouble of fetching the 

ingredients. 

Collect two dozen garden snails, and add to these 

the hind quarters of two dozen stream frogs, skinned ; 

__. bruise them together in a mortar, after which, 

put them in a stew-pan with a couple of turnips 

chopped small, a little salt, a quarter of a ounce 

of hay saffi-on, and three pints of spring water. Stir these 

on the fire until the broth begins to boil, then skim it well 

and set it by the fire to simmer for half an hour ; after 

which it should be strained by pressure through a timmiy 

cloth, into a basin for use. 

561 1^" This broth, from its soothing qualities, often 
counteracts successfully the straining effects of a. severe 
cough, and alleviates more than any other culinary pre- 
paration, the sufferings of the consumptive. 

** That was a severe coughing fit," remarked the sexton to tho tmdertaker, while 
they were taking a glass together. **0h ! *tis nothing but a little ale, which went the 
wrong way." '* Ah, ah, that's Just like you," replied the sexton, " yoa ahrays lay the 
coffin on the bier. " 

Cure for a Cold which costs Nothing. 
Persons attacked by the form of cold commonly called 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 159 

influenza," will find a wonderful efficacy in this simple 
_-. . remedy — abstaining from all liquid food — until 
the symptoms of febrile excitement, watering of 
" the eyes, and sneezing abate. The remedy has 
en tried and found efficacious in many instances within 
e knowledge of the writer ; and it was originally 
commended by high medical authority. 

There is a mistake, tho' the saying is old. 

To hear a man tell you he has a bad cold ; 

We ranst drop the saying, though long it has stood, 

For I never heard of a cold that was good. 

The Potatoe Remedy for Rheumatism. 

^We have heard it asserted by half a dozen of our per- 
aal friends that a raw potatoe, carried habitually in 
p.. the trousers pocket, is an effectual preventive 
of rheumatism. Our witnesses have all tried 
it — tried it long — speak of it confidently — once 
ighed at the notion themselves — have been laughed at in 
en — ^but are, nevertheless, free from rheumatism, and 
fcim to have " the laughing side." 

^ Frexchhan being afflicted with the gout, was asked what' difference there was 
rween that and the rheumatism. '* One very great deferance I " repUed Monsieur, 
uppose you take one vice, you put your finger in, you turn de screw, till you bear 
1. no longer — dot it de rheunuUis—deiit spose you give him one turn more, dat is de 

Apples recommended to Gouty Persons, 

Apples contain a large proportion of sugar, mucilage, 
id starch, in which are combined those acids and 
^. aromatic principles, which, to persons in the habit 
of eating animal food, serve to prevent its putre- 
factive tendencies, and act as cooling tonics and 
itiseptics, and promote digestion. To those constitutions 
4ving a tendency to gout, a walk before breakfast, and the 
astication of a good Ribston pippin, would materially aid 
. preventing attacks of that disease. 

The plague that in some folded cloud remains, 
The bright sun soon disperseth, but observe. 
When black infection in some dunghill lies. 
There's work for bell and graves if it do rise. 



160 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

Debility in Children Prevented by a Simple 

Precaution, 

A VERY frequent cause of depressed vital power, 3S 
the sleeping of children with aged persons. Dr. Copelan.d 

«-. was consulted about a pale, sickly, thin boy, abotat 
four or five years of age. He appeared to ha" 
no specific ailment, but there was a slow a 
remarkable decline of flesh and strength— what his motl 
very aptly termed a gradual blight. Upon enquiry ii:i.*o 
the history of the case, it proved that the child had be C3ii 
very robust and plethoric up to his third year, when l"»- i^s 
grandmother, a very aged person, took him to sleep wi. 
her'; that he soon afterwards lost his good looks, and tLk. 
he had continued to decline progressively afkerwarcXs, 
notwithstanding medical treatment. He was treated 
simple tonics, change of air, &c., and directed to s! 
apart from the aged person — the recovery was rapid. 

6Q6 i^p* The explanation is a physiological one, 
nected with the abstraction of vital energy from 
younger body. Young females married to very old 
suffer in a similar manner, although seldom to so giofl- 
an extent. 

That was a very natural, but a very ludicrous remark of a venerable lady, 
in her 100th year, on the death of her daughter, who had attained the good old. 
of 80. The mother's grief was great ; and to a friend who came to condole with 
her, she could only say,— "Oh, dear! oh, dear I I knew / thould never be abUto 
rear that chUd!" 

Htno to secure the greatest Treasure for the Chest, 

A GREAT deal has been said and written upon eating, 

and drinking. Now for a few words upon a still more 

p.. important subject, breathing. Most persons, and 

especially females, contract an imperfect mode of 

breathing. They suppress the action of the chesty 

and contract a habit of short quick breathing, not carrying 

the air more than half-way down the chest, and scarcely 

expanding the lower portions of the lungs at all. Take a 

sponge, and hold one half of it under the compression of 




INVALUABLE HINTS. 161 

dand, then dip the rest in water, and afterwards press 

water out into a glass or basin ; note the quantity ; 

afterwards dip the uncompressed sponge into the water, 

notice how much more it will absorb ; this will very 

illustrate the relative action of the restricted and the 

stricted lungs. Children that run about in the open 

and in no way laced, breathe deeply and fully in the 

r part of the chest, and in all parts of it ; so also with 

out-door labourers,, and persons who take much 

cise in the open air. The more exercise' we take, 

jially out of doors, the larger the lungs become, and less 

J to disease. In all occupations that require standing, 

the body erect. If at table, let it be also erect, and 

this view, tables and desks should be high. If only 

) minutes daily were devoted to the practice and exercise of 

breathing, it would prove a real blessing to every one 

ting it, 

:oTcn minister was once ordered " beef tea " by his physician. The next day 
tient complained that it had made him sick. ** Why, minister," said the doctor, 
ry the tea mysel'." So, puttin(? some in a skillet, he warmed it, tasted it, and 
e minister it was excellent. " Man,** says the minister, ** is that the way ye sap 
'* What ither way should it be suppit ? It's excellent, I say, minister." " It 
e gude that way, doctor, but try it wi' the cream and sugar, man I try it wi' 
nd then see hoo ye like it." 

Avoid Arsenical Green Paper Hangings, 

PREPAKATION of arscnic being used generally in the 

ifaeture of green paper-hangings, the air of a room 

of which the walls are covered with these papers, 

is liable to be charged wi^ the fine dust of the 

' poisonous arsenite of copper. Those who inhabit 

) rooms are liable to breathe this dust, and to suffer 

le lungs, eyes, nose, and throat, by local irritation. 

^ papers are less objectionable than unglazed. 

3 H^* From a room thus papered, 450 grains of 

were carefully collected. One hundred and fifty 

LS of the dust were tested, and enough metallic 

lie was obtained from this quantity to coat about 



162 THE FAMILY SAVE- ALL : 

ten square inches of copper foil, in addition to a pL^^<;e 
of copper gauze. 



We frequently observe in the newspapers an advertisement which oflfera ** Fomr 
for one ]»c'nny.'* Some scores of fires may be obtained for that small amonm.'^ Ify 
caitltHly leaving luci/er matches lying about. 

An excellent Filter that casts nothing. 

It is assumed that in every house may be found eil 
a tin or earthenware funnel, and a bit of sponge, 
p.. off a bit of the sponge, and place it in "fclie 

narrow bottom of the funnel, and this 8iDC».x>le 

569 

apparatus will answer every purpose of a fiL 

If the funnel and sponge are not already at hand, 
may be procured for a few pence. 

"William," said a teacher to one of his pnpils, "can yon tell me why th^9 •^ 
ris?s in thy oast?" "Don't Icnow, sir," replied >Villiam, "'ccpt it be tha-C^ *** 
(y> cast lualccs cvcrj'thing rise." 

The very best Wash for Cleaning and Promoting ^^^ 

Growth of the Hair. 
Take of distilled vinegar, two ounces ; salt of tar- <^^*^» 
two drachms ; spirit of lavender, half-an-ounce ; spiri<5 



__. rosemary, one ounce ; spirit of nutmegs, half— 

ounce ; essence of the essential oil of almoc:*-*- ' 
one drachm ; essence of violets, one drach:^^*^ ' 
pure spring water, twenty ounces. Mix, and bottle -^^^ 
use. 

571 fe^ It is not only the best wash for cleanL^*^^' 
strengthening, and promoting the growth of the h^^**" ' 
but it is a cooling and refreshing perfume. 

Mt hair and I are qnits, d'jre see— 
I cut my hair— it now cuts me. 

A simple Method of Catching and Destroying Fli^'^'^ 

Take some jars, mugs, or tumblers, fill them 
full with soapy water ; cover them as jam-pots 
p.. . covered, with a piece of paper, either tied do'^'^"^ 
or tucked under the rim. Let this paper *-^-^ 
rubbed inside with wet sugar, treacle, hoB.^.^' 
or jam — in fact anything sweet, and it must have a sax^^ 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 163 

I cut in the centre, large enough for a fly to enter. 
I flies settle on the top, attracted by the smell of the 
; they then crawl through the hole, to feed upon the 
et beneath. Meanwhile the warmth of the weather 
5es the soapy water to ferment, and produces a gas 
ch overpowers the flies, and they drop down into the 
\el. Thousands may be destroyed this way, and the 
IS last a long time. 

" Will you walk into my parlour ? 

Said the Spider to the fly ; 
"'Tis the prettiest little parlour 

" That ever you did spy ; 
" You've only got to pop your head 

"Just inside of the door," &c. 

Ale or Beer brewed in a Tea-kettle, 

'he art of Brewing, it has been well remarked by 

bett, is very similar to the process of Making Tea, If 

. , you put into a tea-pot a handful of malt, and flU 

the pot with hot water, not quite boiling, and 

continue adding water and pouring it out till 

•ecomes tasteless, the strength of the malt will thus 

xtracted just like the strength of the tea-leaves. This 

i tea boiled with a few hops, and when cooled to about 

d heat, having a little yeast added to it to make it 

lanent, will produce a quantity of ale or beer, according 

he strength of the ingredients. Apply this, which is 

whole art of brewing, to the making of a larger 

itity, and you cannot be out. A peck of malt, and four 

68 of hops, will produce ten quarts of ale better than 

you can purchase, and for this purpose all you require 

large tea-kettle and two pans. For a larger quantity, 

must have a mash-tub and oar^ a sieve, and two 

iTB, a wicker hose, a spigot, and faucit, with two nine- 

m casks. These will cost about £2 new ; and you 

brew four bushels of malt with them, and, allowing 

pounds of hops, this will yield nine gallons of the 

ale, and nine more of excellent table-beer. 

r4 O" Malt Liquor or Cider may be prevented from 



164 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL. 

becomiDg sour by adding four pounds of toasted bread 
to every hogshead. This has been tried with complete 
success. When stale or hard, it may be restored by cover- 
ing a large piece of hard toasted bread with mustard 
(made with water only), cutting it into square pieces, and 
putting it into the cask. 

575 Ife^ Sour Beer may he restored by putting equal 
. quantities of wine, pounded chalk, and burnt shells into 
a linen bag, and suspending the bag from the bung-hole, 
replacing the bung. Or, drop into the cask, by very 
slow degrees, a small quantity of carbonate of soda, or of 
salt of wormwood, and then bung up. The beer will be 
restored in twenty-four hours, if not very bad. 

**Tins is capital ale— ice how long it keeps its head!" "Aye, bat oanaider how 
soon it takes awty fours." 

To make Cottage Beer, 

Take a quarter of a peck of good sweet Wheat Bran, 
and put it iYito ten gallons of water, with three hand^ls 
_,. of white hops ; boil the whole together, in a pot 
or copper, until the bran and the hops sink to 
the bottom. Then strain it through a hair sieve, 
or a thin sheet, into a cooler, and when it is about luke- 
warm add two quarts of molasses, or three pints of very 
thick treacle. As soon as the molasses or the treacle is 
melted, pour the whole into a nine-gallon cask, with two 
tablespoonsful of yeast. When the fermentation has sub- 
sided, bung up the cask, and in four days it will be fit 
for use. 

577 ^^ Table Beer^ if drawn off into stone jvbgs, with 
a lump of white sugar in each, and securely corked, will 
keep good for several months. 

" My son," said a father, " take that jug, and fetch mo some beer.** ** Give me 
the money, then, father." '^My s(m, to get beer with money, anybody can do that; 
but, to get beer without money , that's a trick worth knowing." So the boy took tlie 
jug, and depajrted; shortly he returned, and placed the jug before his fiither. 
•• Drink," said the son. *• How can I drink," says the father, " when there is no 
beer in the jug?" "To drink beer out of a jug," said the boy, "when there is 
beer, anybody can do that ; but, to drink beer out of a jug when there is no bMTj 
that's (/<« trick:* The lather admired the cleverness of the child,— but he wocld 
rather Imve had the beer! 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 165 

To make Perry. 

Xkt the P^OTS be perfectly ripe, but take care that the 

cores have not become rotten ; after gathering and 

---T. A cleanins: off the stalks, the fruit should be laid in a 
-Bunt « /» 

heap to mellow, from fourteen to twenty days. 

Next, remove it to the press or mill, and squeeze 

out the juice between a hair-cloth, from whence the liquor 

rixzis into a vat, and from this is removed to casks, which 

1X1.12 St stand in the open air, or in a very cool place, with the 

bung-holes open. The pulp is then to be washed in hot 

i^ater. Some add a fourth part of this to three-fourths of 

tlio pure juice, but the prime makers confine themselves 

to tlie juice, putting the rinsings into separate caeks. This 

P^rltin makes a pleasant beverage for present use, but it 

'W'ill not keep long. The fermentation is accomplished by 

D^ixing a pint of new yeast with a little honey and flour 

"^s^armed, and the whites of four eggs. Put this in a bag of 

^in. muslin, drop it in the cask, and suspend it from the 

bung-hole by a string, taking care that it does not touch the 

"^ttoin of the vessel. If it works kindly, the liquor will 

"ave cleared itself in five or six days, and may be drawn 

**^ from the lees into smaller casks, or bottled. Those who 

''^^^ the perkin with the perry, find it necessary to 

*^*>*engtiien it in the proportion of a gallon of French 

^^Jidy, dissolved in three pounds of sugar-candy to a 

*^^^Bliead of perry ; but this is unnecessary with the 

P^^^-juice. 

^*r!9 1^1* When brandy is added, the cask should be 

^^^^i^diately stopped close, and remain so for fiSQ or six 

*^ys. In bottling, take care that the liquor does not reach 

^^^Kin an inch of the cork; or the bottle will burst. 

^BO i(^ You must watch the liquor, whether in casks 

^ Utiles, and if any hissing noise should be perceived, the 

">i^gs shoulii be removed for a day or two ; after this has 

^^^sed, they may be beaten down, and the casks stowed 

iii a dry place. 



166 TUB FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

581 8^ ^^ winter, perry requires to be kept 
and free from frosts or draughts of air. In smniner, t^^i^^ 
vessels or bottles containing it, must be moved to a &<=»oI 
place, otherwise they will burst. 

A MAX praisin;; pen-}', said it was so excellent a beverage, that taken in Rreat qxa^oaxi- 
titl«8 it always made him fat. *' I have seen the time," said anotlier, *'wt«n it r-^w^f 
you lean." "When?" asked the eulogist. **La8t nightr-offaUut a waU," 

The Best Method of Cider Making, 

As soon as the Apples are ripe, collect them in hea.pff 

on the grass; by no means house them, or the cider '^vill 

__. inevitably bo musty. After they are ground s^nd 

pressed, pass the liquid through a flannel ba^ to 

strain off any bits of skin or core that may htfitve 

passed through the hair - cloths ; put it at once ixiix) 

casks ; do not touch it until it has done fermentiXJ^; 

then put in the bungs. Any addition is injurious; «*nd 

the sulphuring of casks cannot be recommended. 



A TOPER, being on a visit to a neighbouring squire, when a yery small glass w^m^ ^ 
before him after dinner, pulled the serrant by the tail of his coat, and expostca-l^-**^ 
-with him : '* What is this glass for ? Does your master wish to ttep me har"^ ^^ 
nijhtr* 

Spruce Beer, 
Provide sixteen gallons of water, boil half of it, ^3^1*^ 
put the other half into a barrel ; pour the boiling wta**^^ 

__. , on the other, and to the whole add six tal:^!^' 
Hint >afl 

spoonsful oi Essence of Spruce, and sixteen pou.:*^*-^ 

of treacle. When sufficiently cold, add hal:f" * 

pint of yeast, and roll the cask about, or shake it y/^^^' 

Keep it in a warm place for two days, with the b*^*-'^^ 

open ; by this time the fermentation will have subsi' 

sufficiently for bottling. Bottle it, or put it in st- 

jars, well corked, and it will be fit for use in a we?^-*** 

Another method is to add eleven gallons of boili^'-'^^ 
to ten of cold water ; to this put thirty pounds ^ 
molasses and one ounce and a half of essence of spru^^^ 
Work with yeast, and bottle as above. 

584 1^" If you wish the Beer to be white, -a^^® 
refined sugar instead of molasses. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 167 

585 1^^ Spruce is a powerful antiscorbutic, and should 
used freely by persons who have a tendency to that 
liction. It is also a diuretic. It is, however, too cold 
• some stomachs. 

>. OEinxiMAN who had put aside two bottles of choice ale, discovered just before 
ner that his servant had emptied them both. ** Scoundrel ! " exclaimed the 
ster, "what do you mean by this?" "Why, sir, I saw plainly enough by the 
.ids that it was f^oing to thunder, so I drank it, to prevent its turning sour^ 
re*8 nothing I abominate like waste!*' 

The Best Ginger Beer, 
l^HiTE sugar, twenty pounds ; lemon or lime juice, 
^hteen ounces ; honey, one pound ; white ginger, 
_^. bruised, twenty- two ounces : water, eighteen 
gallons. Boil the bruised ginger in three gallons 
of water for half an hour ; then add the sugar, 
e juice, and the honey, with the fifteen gallons of 
ater reserved. Boil and strain. When cold, add the 
hite of an egg, and half an ounce of essence of lemons. 
How it to ferment in the usual way. Then in about 
ur days bottle it, and it will keep for months. 
587 Vl^ Inferior or smaller qualities may be made 
7 altering and reducing the ingredients. 

AuEBicAys have strange names for their settlements. A gentleman, when travelling 
the States, met a lad in the woods and asked him—" How far, my boy, is it to 
yLag Pan?" The boy replied 'Tott he in the Pan^ now I'* 

[ Healthful but " SmalV^ Beer from the Sprouts of 

Nettles, with Sugar, 8fc. 

Take half a gallon of the sprouts of nettles, and boil 

lem in one gallon of water ; strain, and add half a pound 

_. of sugar, or treacle, with a little ginger. When 

nearly cold, ferment with yeast, and bottle tight. 

^^^ It will be fit for use in a few days, and is very 

urifying and cooling to the blood. 

An economical lady spoke to her butler to be saving of an excellent run of small- 
ter, and asked him how it might be best preserved. " The best method I know," 
plied the butler, "is to place a barrel of flfood ale by it." 

A nice Table Beer from Treacle. 
Boil for twenty minutes four pounds of molasses, in 




168 TH£ FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

irom five to six gallons of soft water, with a handful of 
„. hops tied in a muslin bag, or a little extract of 
gentian. When cooled to eighty ' degrees, add a 
pint of fresh beer yeast, or from four to six qaarts 
of fresh worts fi'om the brewer's vat. Cover the beer 
with blankets or warm cloths. Four it £rom the lees, and 
bottle it. Sugar may be substituted for molasses. 

590 |^§" This is a cheap wholesome beverage. A little 
ginger may bo boiled in it half an hour, instead of hopfl> 
if preferred. 

n 

A DENTIST presented a bill for the tenth time to a rich ddn-flint. " It fltiitai 0*^ 
said the latter, " that this is a pretty round bill." " Yea," replied the dentiit, "I*"*^ 
sent ic round often enough to moke it appear so ; and I hare called now to fsC* 
squared." 

Parsnip Wine — the best of Home-made Wines, i 

properlt/ made. 

The Parsnips ought to be solid, firm, compact, and t»] 

in form, not forked and divided into several parts. Four 

. five pounds of such roots, whether purchased 

produced in the garden, will be required for ev< 

^^ gallon of the wine. They must be placed in * 

tub of water, be soaked until the dirt in them becom^ -®^ 
quite loose, and then be thoroughly brushed, till eve 
particle of dirt be washed away. They must not be «cra| 
but any black, spongy, or decayed portions may be c ^* 
away. The roots being cleaned, take off the leaves a^^^" 
so much of the top as may appear green ; then split t^^*^ 
roots into four parts, by two even cuts, luid divide thes^ ^ 
into pieces three inches long. Put the water into a boil^^^» 
add the proportion of parsnips as above stated, but allc^^^ 
for the waste of water by boiling, by putting, say ei^"^^ 
gallons of water, though only six gallons of wine are ^ 
be made. Bring the liquor to a boil, and continue t^^^ 
boiling during three or four hours, or till the roots. ^ 
tender throughout. Try them repeatedly with a focJ^t 
but it is indispensable that they be not bruised, or reodBT^ 



sr 
It 

IT 



INYALUABLE HINTS. 169 

yj ; remove the cover of the boiler slightly aside, to 
w the pungent odour of the parsnipe to escape. The 
ing being complete, strain it through a hair sieve into 
[by but observe the precaution not to produce tnrbiditj 
bnrising the roots ; add immediately three ounces of 
rdered white argol^ and stir the whole for some minutes, 
promote the solution, and then introduce eighteen or 
nty pounds of good loaf sugar. When this is dissolved, 
ihe liquor remain uncovered till it be reduced to seventy, 
at least, to seventy-five degrees of the thermometer, 
mentation must be produced by the aid of ymst^ and 
sequently treated in the manner usual with other wines. 

TOPER irai adced wliat he thoufirht of the effects of strong drink upon the 
on. ** Hot diinki," he replied, " are bad, decidedly bad. Tea, and cc^fee, for 
jice, undoubtedly hurtful ; and even hot punchy when yery hot, and taken in 
Arge quantities, if that be possible, might ultimately do barm ! " 

Wine from the Leaves of the Vine. 

Che leaves may be taken at any period from vines which 
not expected to bear fruit. In other cases, they may 
. be obtained from the summer prunings ; the ten- 
drils are equally useful. Forty or fifty pounds 
' ^ of such leaves being introduced into a tub of suf- 
ent capacity, seven or eight gallons of boiling water 
) to be poured on them, in which they are to infuse 
twenty-four hours. The liquor being poured 0% the 
ves must be squeezed in a press of considerable power, 
1 being subsequently washed with an additional gallon 
water, they are again to be submitted to the action of 
5 press. The "sugar, from twenty-five to thirty pounds, 
then to be added to the mixed liquors, and the quantity 
de up to ten gallons and a half. 

593 1^* To secure a fhll-bodied dry wine, the pro- 
rtion of the leaves to the sugar should be the greatest 
bt has been named, in order to provide a sufficiency of 
5 leaven, or fermenting vegetable principle, to subdue 
1 convert to vinous alcohol all the sugar that is intro* 



170 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

dnced. Fiflj pounds of leaves to thiiiy-five ponnds of 
sugar will work well, and produce ten gallons of strong 
wine, that will improve by keeping two years in the wood, 
and two years more in bottle. The process of fermenta- 
tion, and subsequent treatment^ is the same as in case of 
other wines. 

^94 B^ It must be remembered that July being the 
season for pruning vines most freely (and all the tender 
young shoots, tendrils, and leaves, are equally suitable)^ 
the heat of the weather will be great, and therefore the 
processes must be conducted in an aiiy room, or ceUar, 
not affected by the sun. 

Bkware of such food as penoades a man, though he be not hungry, to e«t ; 
and those liquors that prevail with a man to drink them when he ia not tiiinty- 

^ The Best Receipt for Elder Wine. 

Take twelve gallons of soft river water, forty-ei^t 
pounds of raisins, fourteen pounds of Lisbon sugar, twelve 

_-. , quarts of Elder juice, three quarts of juice of 
sloes, and half an ounce of isinglass; mix all 

^^^ together ; when this has stood two months, or till 
it is fine, draw it off into a clear cask, and add six pounds 
of loaf sugar and three quarts of brandy. Bottle it in 
the April following, and keep it two years before drawing 
the corks. This is in the opinion of many persons equal 
to Port. Smaller quantities may of course be made, by 
observing the above proportions. 

596 1^^ When Sloes are not procurable, an equivalent 
quantity of Damsons, or any small Black Plurriy softened 
by heat, and put with the chopped raisins, will do as 
well, and give that roughness which Elder juice is 
deficient in. 

Sheridan was once token £11 in consequence of a fortnight's continued dining 

out and dissipation. He sent for Dr. H , who prescribed rigid ahstinmce, ami. 

calling again soon afterwards asked his patient if he was attending to that advice? 
The answer being in the aflOnnative— " Right." said the doctor, ** 'tis the only way 
to secure you length of days." *' I do not doubt it," said Sheridan, " for these last 
three days, since I began, have been the longest to me in my life." 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 171 

Rhubarb Wine. 

In the month of May, when Rhubarb is green, the stalks 
of the leaves should be used in the foUoiving proportions : — 

__. Five pounds of stalks are bruised in a suitlkble 
vessel, to which is added one gallon of spring 
®® • water ; and after lying in mash three or four days, 
tlie liquor juice is poured off, when to every gallon of this 
juice three pounds of loaf sugar are added, and allowed to 
ferment for four or five days in a suitable vat ; as soon as 
the fermentation has ceased, the liquor must be drawn off 
into a cask and allowed to remain until the month of March, 
"W-lien all fermentation will have finished ; it must then be 
I'a^sked off, and more loaf-sugar added. In the month of 
-A^iigust a second crop will be ready to gather, and may be 
a^pplied to this method of making wine. 

** What makes yon get up so late, sir?" said a father to his son, who made hit 
^Pl>«araiice at tlio breakfast-table about ten o'clock.—'* Late I why, fiither, I was up 
7^^ the lark."—-'* Well, then, sir, for the fature don't remain up so long with the 
'^x^Ik, but come down a little earlier to breakfast.'* 

CoUsfoot Wine, 

To one gallon of Flowers, put four gallons of boiling 
'^ater ; let it stand till cold, then strain it through a sieve, 

_-. and put three pounds of loaf-sugar to every gallon. 
Boil it till the scum has done rising, then put it 

"^^ into a tub; and when nearly cold, put in the 
Peelings of one lemon and one Seville orange to each gallon, 
'With a little yeast. Let it stand three or four days to work, 
"then put it into a cask with the oranges and lemons. Stop 
it close, and let it stand three months, then bottle it off, 
^nd put a lump of sugar into each bottle. 

599 1^^ A quart of brandy is the proper proportion 
of spirit to each gallon. Put the brandy into :l;o cask, 
Und then pour the wine upon it. 

A PRUDENT man advised his drunken ser\'ant to put by his money for a rainy day. 
In a few weeks the master inquired how much of his wages he had saved. " FaiUi, 
Hone at all," said he, "it rained yesterday, and it all went." 



1 72 THE FAMILT SAVE-ALL . 

Cowslip Wine. 

To one gaUon of water add one gallon of pips, three 

and a half pounds of loaf-sugar, and three lemons. Boil 

-.. the sugar and water half an hour and skim it well 

^^ Put the pips and lemons (which must be sEced) 

into the cask next day and pour the liquor to it. 

Work it with a little yeast upon a toast or crust of bread; 

stir it well once a day for a fortnight, then put it in the 

brandy and stir it up. A bottle of brandy is sufficient &r 

twelve gallons. 

A PBAOicATicAL yoTuig fellow, sitting at table opposite Lord Eldon, irtaen pUa 
John Scott, asked him, ** What difference tihere was between Scott and Sot?*"-^' Jvit 
the breadth of this table/* was the reply. 

The Best Method of Making Tea, 

When tea is made out of the room, its volatile v^ 
essential properties are frequently dissipated, before it 

__. . comes to the table. It is not the bitterness, but 
the fragrance of tea that is refreshing. The teft 

"^ should be wetted, or steeped, before the larger 
quantity of water is added. But if the tea and the pot 
are both warmed dry, before any portion of the water is 
added, a stronger infusion will be obtained. Put the tea 
dry into the empty pot ; then place the pot before the fir^ 
or on the hob, or still better on the hot plate of an oyen, 
till the tea is well heated, but not burned; then pour 
upon it the boiling water, and a fragrant infusion will be 
immediately produced. 

602 1^" Whether tea should be boiled or not, dependi* 
in some measure upon the constitution and inclination of 
the consumer. If it is generally found to be too excitingt 
and if also a full and slightly bitter infusion is preferred 
the tea should he hailed a few minutes, because boiling diwi- 
pates the volatile extract which disturbs the nervou* 
system, and developes by solution the bitter principlfl^ 
which acts as a good stomachic. 

** Does the water in the kettle get cold, when it is taken from the flra?^ ** CerliiB^ 
It does." "Ohl I though it would not, as mother says her kettle liiin«f«<lk/V' 



UXVALVXBLE HINTS. 17S 

Vhe Leaves of the Holly an ayreeahle Addition to Tea* 

Tbs leaves of the common holly possess, in a high degree, 

be properties of Chinese tea, but thej are too strong and 

-_. oleaginous to supply an agreeable infusion by 

themselves. The use of tea may, however, be 

**"*' greatly economised by an admi;!Lture with them. 
]he leaves should be dried, and roasted as brown as the 
rust of well-baked bread ; let them then be crumbled into 
uall bits, and a pinch of these be added to each brewing 
f tea. 

ftTOf'^mr aad fools, aaja an dd adage, always teU tbe troth. " Motber sent me/ 
M a Uttlo j^I to a neighbour, " to come and ask von to take tea with her tbis 
^naiafg." ^Md she say at what time, my dear?" **^No, ma'am, she ouly.wid«b9 
WHld agk yoa, and then it toouki be off her mind,** 

A Salubrious Tea of Agrimony* 

Put fresh-gathered leaves of Agrimony into a coffee 
Mtet^, along with three round pebbles to act as stirrers. 
«y. At the end of a quarter of an hour a native tea 
will be produced, possessed of all the qualities of 
^^ green tea. This beverage is particularly adapted 
r people who live poorly, and imperfectly digest their 
Autritious food ; it is also recommended against dysentery. 

'TAaHSK," said a n^oieh boy, " I hope you won*t bay any more gonpowder tea 
mother." ** Why not?" *' Because every time she sits down to the tea-table, ^e 
■SIS «M «pr *'Go to bed, sir, immediately.** 

A Method of Making Coffee to the Greatest 

Perfection. 

Sometimes the yolks of eggs only are used, the whites 

iing thrown away. Lay the whites upon a plate, cover 

^. them with another plate, raised a little, so as to 

allow evaporation to go on, and yet keep them 

^^ free from dirt. Set them in a warm place, and 

le wvter from the whites will gradually evapwate, leaving 

mass of yellowish, shining, brittle matter, that will 

cale off by the touch. This substance is positively the 

"^best for clarifying coffee, and it may be kept in a 



174 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

bottle for any length of time. When the whites of eggs, 
in their ordinary state are used, they form unsightly masses 
of coagulated albumen, that either obstruct the spout of 
the coffee-pot, or escape in lumps into the cups. The way 
to use the dried egg powder is to throw it into the water 
before it is poured on to the coffee. 

606 U^ -A. very small quantity will answer the purpose. 

607 U^ The addition of a teaspoonful of port wine to 
a cup of Coffee greatly improves its flavour. 

Mt uncle P was an awful snorer. He could be lieaitl aa ftr as a Uackanitli^ 

forge ; but my aunt became so accustomed to it, that it soothed her repose. Tbef 
were a yery domestic couple — never slept fiir apart for many yean. At length 
my unde was required to attend the assizes at some distance. The first ni^t iftff 
his departure, my aunt never slept a wink ; she missed the snoring. The neooi 
night passed in the same restless manner. She was getting into a yery bad nj, 
and probably it would have been serious, had it not been for the ingenuilj of i 
servant-girl: she took the cqfee-miU into my aunt'* bed-room, and gtxmnd kr t» 
ilup at once I 

Very nice Tea Custards, 

Put two large tea-spoonsful of Green, and one of BUd 
Tea, into a pint and a half of boiling milk. Add to tho 

__. . milk while boiling, half a pint of cream. Whflfl 
the mixture has acquired an approved tea flavonry 

""^ take it from the fire, and strain it. Take care 
not to leave the tea too long in it, otherwise the custards 
will be too bitter. Having strained the milk, put it agaia 
on the fire with a little salt, and sufficient pounded lo» 
sugar to sweeten it. Add the yolks of ten eggs, and stir 
until the custard is thick enough. Serve in glasses. 

At a tea-party, where some Cantabs happened to be present, after the ^^^ 
had been handed round, the lady, who was presiding over the tea-equipage, 1>0P|^ 
the tea was yery good. "Very good indeed, madam," was the ge^ral r^[ij^ 
it came to the turn of one of the Cantabs to speak, who, between truth and "foaUf^ 
shrewdly observed, that " the tea was exeeUent, but the water was WMiii;'' 

Excellent Coffee Custards, 

Boil a pint and a half of milk with half a pint of cream* 

When boiling, throw into it hot, an ounce of whole ooflfe^ 

— . . which has just been roasted, in a small frying-pAi^ 

if you have no roaster. When the milk h** 

acquired the flavour of coffee in an approw 

d^ee, take it from the fire, and strain through a ^ 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 175 

levc. Put it on the lire again with a little salt, and two 
unces of pounded loaf sugar, or more, if approved ; then 
dd the yolks of ten eggs beaten, and stir over the fire 
mtil thick enough. Put into glasses. 

When coffeo was first introduced, a good housewife in the north received a pound 
f the whole berries, as a present She boiled them, and served them with bacon, 
larsley, and butter. But she declared they were the worst beans she had ever 
een, as they would never get soft, and they had turned gaUom of ufoUr muddy. 

Very nice Chocolate Custards, 

Hasp three ounces of Spanish chocolate, which has the 

franilla favour. Melt it in the smallest possible quantity 

__. . of water. Put a pint and a half of milk over 

the fire with half a pint of cream, and let it boil : 

610 

then add powdered loaf sugar to your taste, and 

% little salt. Meanwhile, beat up the chocolate, with a 
little of the milk as it boils, and mix it well. Pour it 
into the boiling milk, which must be kept in brisk motion. 
Add the yolks of eight eggs well beaten. Keep stirring 
in chocolate until sufficiently thick. Serve in glasses. 

" I'M glad this coffee don't owe me anything,** said Brown at breakfast. "Why?" 
uudooaly inquired his wife. "Because, my dear, I fear it would never utUel*^ 

The Straioherry Leaf a Substitute for Green Tea. 

In some parts of Germany, they gather the Strawhen^ij 
Leaf and also the Flowers^ when young, and after 

_. . selecting and clearing them (without the use 
of water), they are dried in the air in a shady 

"■'"'■ place, out of reach of the sun. To these leaves 
the appearance of green tea is given, by pinching off 
the stalks, warming them over the fire, rolling them 
while in a flexible state, and then drying them. In this 
condition the substitute for tea is ready for use, and 
being prepared in precisely the same manner, the difference 
it is said, can hardly bo distinguished. 

M188 IIdtchinson's great-grandmother was one of a party who sat down to the 
first pound of tea that ever came into Penrith. It was sent as a present, and 
without directions how to use it. They boiled the whole at once in a saucepan, 
and Mt doten to eat Vie leave* with butter and salt I They wondered how^ any 
person could like such a dish. 




176 THE FAHILT SATE-ALL: 

Improving Taxnted Buiter. 

BuTTEB, either fresh or salt, posBessing a very 
disagreeable effluvium or flavour, maj be rendered 

__. , perfectly sweet by the addition of a little cor- 
honate of soda. The proportion to be used 
is, two drachms and a half of carbonate 
soda, to three pounds of butter. In making fresh butter, 

the soda is to be added after all the milk is worked 

out, and it is ready for making up. 

613 B^ The unpleasant smell is produced by 
acid, which, being removed, the alkali disperses at 
same time the disagreeable flavour. This acid is gen( 
rated by peculiarities in the constitutions of some 
by the condition of certain fodders, or by the length 
time cream is kept before being churned ; but, 
often, by the dairy utensils not being kept ihorotigld; 
clean. 

An txeOlent Substitute f&r Butter.— Yon marry the nicest girl yoa knoir. To 
will then have her to preside at your breakfast table, and, unlcaa you an a n 
unlaw indeed, yon will not then require any bui her. 

Tainted Butter restored by Chloride of Lime. 

w 

This operation is extremely simple and practicable^ 
it consists in beating the butter in a sufficient quantit 

_,. of water, in which put twenty-five to thirty 

of chloride of lime to two pounds of butter. 
After having mixed it till all its parts are ii 
contact with the water, it may be left in it for an hoi 
or two, afterwards withdrawn, and washed in fresh water. 

615 1^^ The chloride of lime, having nothing injurioo^^^ 
in it, can with safety be augmented ; but it will generallj^^ 
be found that twelve or fourteen drops to a pound of bNTtt gr ^*" 
are sufficient. Butter, the taste and odour of which wer^^ 
insupportable, has been sweetened by this simple means.-- 

A VABMER, who recently had his bntter seized, by the clerk of the market^ 
■hort weight, gave, as a reason, that tlie cow from whose milk the butter ' 
made was sat^ect to the cramp, and that caused the batter to tkrink im Mcd^Aft 



inyalujlble hintb. 177 

To Prevent Butter Tasting of JSimips. 

The week previous to giving Cows Turnips, whea 
drarjiing, save a couple or three quarts of Buttennilk; 
the earthen pot in which the cream is usually 
collected should be scalded, dried, and put before 

^*'^ the fire to make it hot ; when hot, put the butter- 
milk into it, in order to make it sour; the morning and 
evening cream to be put to it, and then kept till churning. 
A small quantity of saltpetre is then put into the cream. 
Tlie same quantity of buttermilk to be saved every time 
after churning, and the same process repeated. The turnips 
to be well cleaned, tops and roots cut off; and no decayed 
tiirsips to be given to the cattle on any account. 

617 BS" When Swedish Turnips are used, a pinch 
of powdered saltpetre thrown into the pan, when the 
snilk is strained after milking, will prevent any unpleasant 
taste in the butter. 

A cow oonsdines on an average lOOlbs. of grecoi food in 24 hours. This, for 185 
days of summer, is 18,5001bs. In winter, 451bs. of root a day; or for 180 days, 
«10(Nn>8. One-third of tliis may be potatoes ; the resf^ other roots. But she giyes, 
if well fed, 2000 quarts of milk a year. 

Method of Preserving Butter for Years, 

Pound together one part of fine lump sugar, one of 

nitre, and two of the best salt. After the butter is taken 

._.. from the churn, it must be completely freed from 

the milk, so that not a drop remains. Then mix, 

^ and thoroughly incorporate with the butter, the 

previous mixture in the proportion of an ounce of the 

powder to a pound of the butter, avoirdupois weight, and 

press the butter when so salted into wood vessels, or 

vitrified jars, but on no account into glazed pans. Butter 

so salted will not be fit for use until it has stood three 

weeks ; it then possesses a rich marrow flavour, which no 

other mode of curing will impart to it. With proper 

care it will keep for years, and exhibit all the qualities 

of freah butter. 



178 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

619 t3r Butter when too Salt may be restored hy 
patting into a churn in the proportion of a quart of miiy 
to a pound of butter, and a small piece of annatto ; chum 
them together for an hour, and proceed as for firesh 
batter. 

Ah anctioneer exclaimed—** Why, really, ladles and gentlanen, I am giving then 
things away!" **Are you?** said an old lady; **well, / wttt themk pau for tki 
tOiHr mOi/yg you ham in pour handl" 

Economy in Butter and Cheese. 

In Grermanj the people of the humbler classes econo- 
mise their butter, and render it more nutritive, by incor- 
_-. porating with it a certain quantity of potatoes. 
The process is to dress them by steam, then 



®*^ them with pestle or roller, mix them with thi 




cream, and churn all together. The butter comes 
usual, and is made up in the ordinary manner, and salt 
is added to preserve it. 

621 |@^ The addition of Potatoes to Cheese renders iU9 -* 
not only more nutritive, but more easy of digestion. Wheica^^ii 
the milk is set or curdled, and has been drained from th^^ -^^ 
whey for some hours, then take well-dressed potatoes, pn^ -^^* 
them into a copper cullender, and force them through th^^ -^^ 
holes, and then knead up the potatoes with the curd* -^B« 
When they are well mixed together, allow the mass tc^ -^ 
remain untouched for two or three days. Then work i^' -** 
up again, and put it into the moulds or vats commonlj 
used. 




A RFHRED cheesemonger, vho hated any allosion to the business that had 
him, said to Charles Lamb, in the course of a discussion on the Poor Laws — ** 
must bear in mind, sir, that I have got rid of that sort of stuff which yofa p 
call the ^*milk of human kindness/" Lamb looked at him steadily, and ga' 
acquiescence in these pithy words, " Yes, I am aware of that,— yoi» turned U dtt 
ehuse several years ayo."* 

How to obtain the Largest quantity of Milk from 

a Coto, 

There is a very considerable difference in the results 
of good and bad milking. If every drop of milk in the cow'^ 



nrVALUABLE HINTS. 179 

udder be not carefully removed at each milking the se- 
„. . cretion'Will gradually diminish inproportion to the 
quantity left each day behind. This fact is well 
^^^ established ; and it is to be accounted for on philo- 
sophical principles, as well as being borne out in practice. 
X^ature creates nothing in vain ; and the secretion of milk 
in the cow only suffices to replace the quantity consumed 
^laily — the milk left behind in the udder is re-absorbed 
into the system, and consequently the next milkiug will be 
8o much less in quantity. But another reason why every 
drop of milk should be taken away, is to be found in the 
^pvell-known fact that the last milk is doubly as good as the 
£rst ; hence, if not removed, there is not merely equal, 
but double loss. 

623 1^^ Cream cannot rise through a great depth 
of milk. Therefore, if milk is desired to retain its cream 
for a time, it should be put into a deep narrow vessel ; but 
if it be desired to free it almost completely of cream, it should 
be poured into a hroad flat dish, not much exceeding 
one inch in depth. 

A LAD delivering new milk, was asked what made it so warm? " I don't know,** 
replied he, unwittingly, ** unless they put warm water to it, instead of cold, tibia 
morning 1 ** 

The following is Aunt Deborah's description of her milk-man: — ^'*He ia the 
meanest fellow in the world ! He skims his milk on the top, and then tvm$ it 
owr and tiims it on the bottom J" 

Zinc Pans should Not be Used in the Dairy. 

The acid of milk forms with zinc a salt which is 

poisonous. It operates by causing vomiting; but though 

__. the solution of it may not be strong enough to 

produce that effect, it is very injurious to health, 

- o^4 '^ fi-equeutly repeated. Zinc butter-churns were for 

some time used from a supposition that they increased the 

quantity of butter by some galvanic effect ; but they were 

found to make the food so dangerous and unwholesome 

that they have been generally discontinued. 

A KiLK-sELLER who was noted for vending the article of not the purest quality, waa 
aroused at two o'clock in the morning and told that his best cow was choking. 
Of course he hastily dressed himself, and repaired to the field where the aniaiids were 
kept, but found them all right. At daybreak, however, on proceeding to (Ae pump 
u usual, he found that some wags had inserted a turnip into the spout. 



180 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

To Prevent Milk from Jhirninff Sour in Warm 

Weather. 

In Paris the milkmen are in the habit of employing 
a little sub-carbonate of soda or potash. This^ by com- 

_. . bining with and neutralising the acetic add 
formed, has the desired effeet^ and keeps the 

^^ milk from turning as soon as it otherwise would* 
The salt that is thus formed — ^viz., the acetate of soda or o: 
potash — is not at all injurious ; and as puro milk does con 
tain a small quantity of this salt, it is difficult to prononncc 
upon the addition of any alkali, except there shonlc^- j|(f 
bo some in a free or uncombined state, which does no~«=3ot 
exist in milk. The addition of a little carbonate of pbtasK^'.^sh 
will break down the curd that is beginning to form, irr-tin 
consequence of souring. 




We offer our best affections, our highest aepirations after tlie good and 
on the altar of youth. It is well if, in our aftcr-lifc, wc can sometimes reidxMLJE-:^ .die 
the almost cxtinf^iished flame, and inluile its dyinff ftt^^raiiee, like the hreath » of 

incense ot sweet-smelling flowers, to detain the spirit of life — the ethereal guest a 

little longer in its frail abode ; to cheer and soothe it with ideuuna d memor j ' ^gj — 
not those of hope. 

To Destroy Mites and Jumpers in Cheese. 

PouB on each side of the Cheese ravaged by iSosis^ ^sse 

insects, a coat of melted Mutton Suet boiling hot. Tliir .^ciiuB 

^. application will not only arrest any furth^^ -^i®^ 

destruction by the mites, but also prevent HszM- -fle 

too rapid decaying action of the air. 

627 l^agr The American Method of Preserving Cheese it ^ ^> 

as soon as the cheese is sufficiently dried, to cover it wit:^" -^^ 

folds of paper pasted on, so as completely to exclude th^i^^--^® 

air. 

Go rtraight on and don't mind them. If they get in your way, walk round tbtc^S^J^, 
regardless of their spite. A man irho has no enemies is sddom good for f ytti^iii|fiy^_^^J 
be is made of that kind of material which is so easily worked that every (me hn J 
hand in it. A sterling character is one who thinks for himself, and apeaki wta» 
he thinks ; he is always sure to have enemies. They are as necessary to him aa 
air ; they keep him alive and active. A celebrated character who was surm 
by enemies used to remark : *' They are sparks which, if you do not blow, will go o^^^^^^^"^ 
ox themselves." "live down prejudice," was the Iron Duke's motto. Let tide y ."^ 
your feeling while endeavouring to live down the scandal of those who are bftt- 
against you. If you stop to dispute, you do but as they deshre, and open the 
fSc more abuse. Let the poor fellows telk — there will be a re-action If yon perl 
but your duty, and hundreds who were once alienated from yon will flock to 70a 
acknowledge their error. 



:-jsa 




INTALUABLE HINTS. 181 

Uses for Eggs not Cammonfy EmplcHfed. 

Se^-bibds' eggs, especially ihose of the Sea OuUy. are 
geed when boiled hardf and eaten with pepper, salt, yin^ar, 

... and mustard. When eaten in a soft state, they 
have a fishy taste. JRooks* Eggs are as suitable 

"^ as Plovers^ for Salads. The ^gs of the Lapwing 
matA Buff are excellent food. 

629 USr The Thin Membrane found immediately inside 
the shell of Eggs is excellent £[>r covering slight cuts^ as 
^ai the chin when shaying— -or abrasions of the skisf npon 
any part of the body. The membrane may be saved, 
when boiled eggs are eaten, and allowed to drj/L. When 
wanted for use, it will only be necessary to steep it in 
warm water for a minute or two. 

" Tis being, and doing^ and Tiavin^^ that make 
All the pleasures and pains, of -which people partake^— 
To he what God pleases, — to do a man's best, — 
And to have a good heart,— ci <ftc ii«|r Ut be bktL" 

How to Eat an Egg with Satisfaction! 

What ! mean to insinuate that, after all these years, 
We don't know how to eat eggs properly ? Never mind : 

--. don't be above taking a hint. By the usual mode 
of introducing the salt into a boiled egg, it will 

""^ not incorporate with the egg ; the result is, you 
^et either a quantity of salt without egg, or egg without 
Bait. In order to make the two mix properly, after cutting 
ofif the top of the egg, put in a drop of water, tea, coffee, 
or other warm liquid that may be on the table ; then add 
the salt, and stir. The result is far more agreeable— the 
cli'op of liquid is not tasted. 



At tareakfkst one morning at an inn, a forelgiMr make quick despatch with the 
Throsting a spoon into the middle, he drew oat the yolk, devoured it, and passed on 
to the next. When he had swallowed tiao sevenUi, an old Cumer, who had ahneady 
been prejudiced against Monsieur hy his moustaches, could hrook the extravagance 
no longer, and speaking up, said, " Whjr, sir, you leave all the white t How is Hie 
landlord to afford a hreakfest at that rate?" "Vy," replied the foreigner, "you 
wonldn*t have me eat de vite? De yolk is de thicken; de vite dt feddtr»» Vosld yoa 
liave me make von bolster of my belly? ** The ftrmer had never viewed the matter 
In tb«t Ufi^ befbre. 



182 THE FAMILY SAVE-AXL : 

Bad Eggs are often purchased for want of JudgmenL 

The safest waj to try them is, to hold them to the light; 

forming a close focus with the hand. K the shell when 

--. . viewed thus, appears to be studded with small. 

dark spots, they are doubtful. If you see no trans- 

parency in the shells, they are fit only to be thrown 

away. The most certain test is to try them by the light 

of a candle. If quite fresh, there are no spots upon the 

shells, and the eggs have a bright yellow tint. 

632 1^^ New-laid eggs should not be eaten until th^ 
have been laid about eight or ten hours ; because the white 
is not properly set before that time, and does not obtain ita 
delicate flavour. 

633 f^ Never boil eggs for salads, sauces, or any 
other purpose, more than ten minutes; and when done, 
place them in a basin of cold water to cool. 

634 Qg^ For making plum puddings. Ducks* eggs are 
more economical than those of fowls. They are larger in 
size, and richer. 

Cuttomer. — "I wish to purchase some eggs, to moke a sponge cake ; they must be 
veryA-esh." Shopkeeper. — "Ah, yes, I have some that can't be beaten." CtiUomer,-' 
" Can't be beaten !" Shopkeeper. — ^" No, ma'am, I defy any one to beat them." CW' 
tomer. — " Then they won't do for me ; how can eggs be made hito a sponge cake» 
tmiest they can be beatent** 

To distinguish the Sex of Eggs, 

There are two classes of poultry-keepers — ^those who 
want female eggs only, to rear hens for the sake of their 
TT' 4. ^ggs, and those who want male eggs only, to pro- 
duce cocks and capons for the table. There is 
^^ only one outward sign which can be regarded as 
indicating the sex of the egg : it is this, that eggs con- 
taining the germs of males have generally wrinkles on 
their smaller end; while female eggs are equally smooth 
at both extremities. 

*< Bbidoet, are the eggs boiled 7* "I don't know, sure, I left them to bfle by the 
watch." "Boil by the watch, why, what do you mean?" "Sure, didn't ye tell m* 
to bile them by the watch, and I have put the vatch tnth them into the tauegKm." 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 183 

Surprise Eggs for Parties. 

SsPABATE in different vessels the yolks and whites of 
a sufficient number of Fresh Eggs, Stir any quantity of 
__. . yolk together, from half-a-pint to a pint or more. 
Put this into a bladder, tie it up in a round form, 
^" and boil it hard. Then put this boiled yolk into 
ajxother and a larger bladder, into which pour the whites, 
keeping the hard yolk as much in the middle as possible. 
the bladder in an oval form, and boil until the white 
quite hard. An immense egg may thus be formed, 
"^Jv-lxich, at a large dinner party, will surprise every one, 
aixcl may be used in a large dish of salad. 



Duke of Norfolk had a fancy for owls, of wliicli he kept several. He called one, 

^^*xx a fiuicied resemblance of expression to the Chancellor, " Lord Thurlow." The 
"*^^a^c«'s solicitor was once in conversation with his Grace, when, to his surprise, the 
**'*vl— keeper came up and said, "Please your Grace, Lord Thurlow has laid an egg r 

Best and Simplest Way to keep Eggs Fresh, 

The reason that eggs become musty and bad, is in con- 

uence of the action of the air upon the yolk. Those who 

are so unfortunate as to meet with a stale Qgg at 

breakfast will almost invariably find that the yolk 

• lies at the side. The most proper and simple way 

preserve eggs fresh is simply to tui^ them frequently. 

is well known that a sitting hen daily turns her eggs. 

e readiest way of turning them is, to have an ^gg pre- 

rver, made of wire, with squares of a size to receive 

^^edium eggs turned on end. The eggs may then be turned 

^^ngly every day ; but for those who have to do with large 

^tunbers of eggs, receivers might be made which could 

^€ turned frequently, without trouble or injury. 

638 1^^ Of Lime-water, Bran, Sand, and Scalding, the 
Iftst named is the next best plan to that of daily turning. 

639 8@^ We have frequently known not only that eight 
^r ten eggs, after having been broken into a basin, have 
\)een thrown away, because the very last that was added 
proved putrid ; but also that, owing to the carelessnesa of 



184 IHS FAMILY SAYB-ALL : 

a cook, a valuable pudding haa been spoiled by the wi^ 
mission of an egg that was musty. To prevent this, a cut/^ 
§kould be used to break each egg irUo^ before it is pnt in.'tfSE) 
the basin in which they are all to be beaten. 

Ak economical PaterfamUiu, seeing aome '* egg powder,** advertised, bought tb 
packets, and had the aadadty to aak the -vendor how long he should hkye to watt 
eighteen chickens, if h* put a fun to tU upon the pouderst 

Eggs Clieap and Fresh in Winter ^ and Pmdby ft 

the Spring. 

The person who wants to make up a good 
egg basket, had better obtain half-a-dozen nndersiced 

. discoloured pullets, of the March and Ap^r-il 
broods, the price of which should not 



15s. or 21s. for the set. A game-cock W0B»Jld 



bo a capital companion, but is not absolutely 
The birds should bo got home about the middle of 
September, about which time eggs begin to get de^sv. 
They should be kept clean and warm, and be fed twi^ 
a day thus : — In the morning, as much good barley ^ 
they will eat ; in the evening, a mixture made with hM^oi 
water in which meat has been boiled or dishes wash^'d, 
of barley-meal and pollard, barley-meal and boiled 
potatoes or mangel wurtzcl, or meal and fresh 
will be the best of suppers. Meal is too expensive "*> 
be given alone, but mixed with cheaper food to give ^ 
bulk, it is excellent. Green food and lime rubbish 
necessary, but need not add to the expense. The 
or seven fowls may be very well fed for one shillixig 
a week. From September to February (about twenQ^ 
weeks), they will produce about 350 eggs, and this wiH 
amply repay the sovereign expended in food» Th6 
Pullets should bo killed for the table in February, tad 
will be worth the prime cost, j^^ 

641 The manure for the garden will be an additional 
profit. 



An indignant Poulterer denounced the system of artificial incnhatlon ai "a ftafil 
of most detestable cMekenerieT* ^ 



imrALtJABLE HINTS. 185 

A good Family Brown Breads unfermented. 

Fermentation by yeast, is obtained at the cost of a 
rtion of the flour, which is converted into gas, the 
jti^ bubbles of which, becoming fixed in the bread, 
render it light. Every bubble that rises on 
the surface of what is called " the sponge,** 
>Te8ents a few grains of flour, escaping in the form 
gas. To avoid this loss, a system of making unfermmted 
)ad has been introduced. A capital and economical 
Bad may be made upon the non-fermenting plan, in 
3 following manner : — Three pounds of wheat meal ; 
If an ounce of muriatic acid ; half an ounce of car- 
Date of soda ; water enough to produce the proper 
Qsistence. 
^3 8g^ For white flour, four pounds of flour ; half 

ounce of muriatic acid ; half an ounce of carbonate 

soda ; water, a quart 

644 1^^ The way of mixing is as follows : — ^First 
ix the flour and soda well by rubbing together in a 
n, using a wooden spoon perfectly dry for the purpose ; 
Bn pour the acid into the water, let it dissolve, and 
X thoroughly by stirring. 

645 1^^ Four pounds of wheat m£al, worked in this 
inner, will produce seven pounds nine ounces of ex- 
lent light bread, which will keep moist longer than 
mented bread, and be found far more sweet and diges- 
le. 

546 1^^ The object of putting muriatic acid into 
jad is as follows : — ^If vinegar be poured upon chalk, 
bubbling and boiling takes place. Any acid poured 
on a carbonate will produce a similar bubbling. When, 
5refore, the bi-carbonate of soda, which contains a large 
antity of carbonic acid, is mixed with the flour, and 
iriatic acid is poured upon it, an effervescence takes 
(ce, which rises the bread, and dispenses with the 



186 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 



use of yeast. This is the principle of what are calLod 
"baking powders." 

647 1^^ Precaution.^-'Dr. Normandy mentions tixat 
arsenic is frequently present in muriatic acid, and that 
this impurity, when present in the acid, remains in tlie 
bread. To avoid this liability to evil, tartaric acid inay 
be used ; in which case it will be only necessary to 
read tartaric acid instead of muriatic acid in the foregoing 
instructions. 

648 %^ Butter-milk, kept till sourish, may be used 
instead of the chemical acids. The bread made from it 
has a richer taste than that made from muriatic acid, 
or tartaric acid, and soda. 

A OENTLEHAN having occasion to call npon an anther, found him at home in hif 
writing chamber. He remarked the great heat of the apartment, and said; Tt 
is as hot as an oven." "So it ought to be," replied the writer, ''ibr tie hera 
I make my bread.^* 

Every Man his Own Miller, One-third of the Cost 
of Bread Saved. Pure Bread, without Alum, and 
icith all its nutritive parts retained. 

Where a family is large, and the consumption of flour 
considerable. Families should be supplied with hiffnd 

•T- A flour-mills f by which the saving in the cost 
of bread will be found to amount to nearlj 

^*^ ONE -THIRD. The price of a mill is about 
£4 10s., which will be saved in a single ny)nth, whow 
the consumption is large. To grind twenty pounds of 
wheat, occupies a boy, or a servant, about twenty 
minutes. Hand flour-mills can be obtained at the 
machinery department of the Crystal Palace, or a* 
266, High Holborn. There are mills which grind 
and dress the wheat at one operation. The saving «» 
the cost of bread, and the preservation of health hj tk 
disuse of alum, and adulterated fUmr, are matters of gr^ 
importance. 

CoO 1^^ The old system of " setting a sponge,^ that is 



1. 



IKYALUABLE HINTS. 187 

itmg the yeast and salt, with a small quantity of 
irm water, into a pit in the middle of the flour, and 
iving this small quantity to rise, is a bad plan ; and 
on this system the batch will always be uncertain. 
r incorporating the whole mass, the bread will be 
ideviatingly good and light. Fermentation should be 
sseminated throughout. 

L SACK of flour, or 2801bs., which makes 36011)8. of bread, or 90 quartern loaves, 
fermentation, sivcs 4081bs., or 102 quartern loaves, by effervescence. The loss 
refiidng is still greater : a quarter of wheat, weighing 520Ibs., or 651bs. i>er 
hd, produces 5121bs. of meal ; and these, after a course of screening, yteld only 
lbs. of flour,— a diminution of 961bs., or 18 per cent. 

Excellent Bread of Rice^ when Wheat is Dear, 

Take one pound and a half of jRtcc, and boil it gently 

er a slow fire, in three quarts of water, about five 

_. hours, stirring it, and afterwards beating it into 

a smooth paste. Mix this while warm into 

two gallons, or four pounds of flour, adding 

the same time the usual quantity of yeast. Allow 

e dough to work a certain time near the fire, after 

liich divide it into loaves, and it will be found, when 

ked, to produce excellent white bread, very acceptable 

children. 

W intlnstrions peasant in Picardy, being observed to purchase weekly five loaves, 
I asked what occasion he could possibly have for so much bread. **0ne," 
Bed the honest fellow, "is for myself; one I give away; one I return; and 
other two I lend." " How do you make that out T " Why," returned the 
sant, "the one which I take myself is for my own uu; the second, which I 
B away, is for ray mother-in-law ; the loaf I return, is fbr my father ; and the 
«p two, which I lend, are those with which I keep my two children, in hopes 
t they will one day return than to me." 

To Make Good Bread from Sprouted Wheat, 

Take, say four or five stones of flour, and boU it as 
tny hours in a bag ; place the bag on a drainer over a 
». . tub until the next day ; then with a wooden mallet 
pound the flour in the bag until it crumbles rather 
^^ small ; after that, roll it fine with a rolling-pin 
on the table. Then make the bread as usual. 
353 1^^ By these means excellent bread has been 



188 THE FAHILY SAYE-AIX : 

I 

made of wheat, every sheaf of which had Bpronte^ 
and to improve which various remedies were resorted 
to in vain : hands could not make, the oven could not bake 
a loaf; ten or twelve hours in a hot oven did not sei 
the dough. More excellent bread, cakes, and pickle^ 
than damaged flour prepared as above will produce, were 
never eaten. 

654 B^ The following mixtures form excellent 
Household Bread : — 1. Half maize and half barley, with 
a leaven of wheat flour, one-fifth of the total weighi 
2. Half wheat flour and half maize. A more agreeable 
and healthful bread cannot be obtained. 3. Half oatmeal 
and half barley, with a leaven of wheat flour, rather more 
than one-flfth. 4. Equal parts oatmeal and wheat flour ; ex- 
cellent. 5. Barley flour, with one-flfth its weight of wheat 
leaven ; bread white and well tasted. 6. Barley and rye, 
or barley and wheat in equal quantities ; this last is equal 
to the best bread of wheat flour alone. 7. Buckwheat, 
with an equal quantity of barley or rye, and one-fifUi (rf 
wheat leaven ; or, still better, with one-half of wheat 
flour. 8. In general, potatoes may serve, when they are 
dry, for one-half, and when fresh or new, for two-thirdfl, 
and oven for four-fifths, in the fabrication of household 
bread. This last quantity of four-fifths is the greatest that 
has ever been employed with advantage to uniform suoceea, 
when used with a wheaten leaven of one-flfth of the 
total weight. 

^^^ V^ Sprouted Wheat is Good for Seed; it will 
germinate as freely a second time, as at first. 

Bb£ad is tho staff of life, they say ; I Bread won^t support a man a diji 
And be it also spoken, | Unless it first be broken. 

Capital Pudding from Spoiled Breads or 

Fragments. 

Take the bread of a " sad " or " heavy ^ loaf, or cntftfl 
and other fragments, soak them in hot water, stirnng 



XarVALUABLX HINTS. 189 

img, and pouring of^— repeating iduB if necessary; 

. then pnt the soaked bread into the pudding bag^ 
and by twisting very tight, and pressing it under 
a board, get out as much of the water as possible. 
1 mix this pressed bread with milk, sugar, and spice 
towdered cinnamon and nutmeg), and add flour enough 
nd it into a proper consistence. Then put it into the 
ling bag for boiling. It is a simple, economical, and 
.esome pudding for children, and it is best eaten 

syrup of fruit, 

lAT is the chief use of bread?** asked an examiner at a school examination, 
chief ose of bread," answered a oontemplatiye urchin, apparently aroused by 
apUdty of the inquiry, "is to spread butter and treacie upon!" 

Other Uses for Stale Bread. 

VEBY nice dish, called Turkey Pie^ may be made from 

is of Stale Bread. Put the pieces into a saucepan with 

some boiling water poured over them, let them 

simmer by the fire till saturated, then put salt 

and pepper to taste, and add a little butter. 

'8 BS?" For Puddings from Stale Bread, Suet should 

sed instead of eggs. 

9 8@^ Crusts of Bread may be Qrilled for Soups. 
the crusts upon a small wire gridiron over hot 
3rs to crisp. When done, wet the inside with top- 
and sprinkle a little salt over them, and slip them 
the tureen ; or crisp them over a furnace, wetting 
good stock. 

•0 1^* For Cheese, pull rough pieces from a loaf, or 
broken parts, soak them in warm water ; take them 
and let them drain, until they remain just moist, then 
n them in an oven or before the fire. 

PA, Fve been seeing cook make bread; and can you tell me why dough 
>le8 the sun ? " " The sun, Freddy ? '* " Yes, Pa.'* " Ko, I cannot." Freddy, 
;reat glee, " Because, when it risee, Ws lig?Ut** 

Economy of Yeast. 
' places where yeast cannot be readily obtained, a 



190 THE FAMILY SAYE'^iLLL : 

little may be made to go a long way, in the following 

p.. . manner. Knead the first supply with the usnal 

proportion of water and flour into a piece of dongh 

about the size of a lai'ge tea-cup, then leave it to 

rise ; and when risen as much as usual when pat into 

the bread tins, add as much flour again, and water enoogli 

to knead it with. Knead it, and leave it as before, and 

again add flour and water in the same proportions. The 

only difference necessary is, to have the water a little 

warmer than usual — "as hot as the hand can bear." 

The bread thus made, with a deficient quantity of yeaat, 

according to the usual method, will be as light as 

usual. 

A CLERGYMAx who bought his sermons ready-written, instead of compiUng tbcn 
himself, yet fondly believed his manuscripts peculiar to himself, was invited to prad> 
in a church at some distance. Imagining that Iiis sermon had created a sensatiaOi ^ 
asked the sexton, after service, how it was liked. " Oh, very much indeed, sir," m^Aa 
sexton, "we atways did like that sermon." 

_____ • 

A Healthful Substitute for Alum in Bread. 

Water saturated with lime produces in bread the 

same whiteness, softness, and capacity of retaining mois- 

_-. . ture, as results from the use of alum ; while the 

former removes all acidity from the dough, and 

supplies an ingredient needed in the structure of 

the bones. The best proportion to use is five pounds of 

water saturated with lime, to every nineteen pounds of flour* 

The way to saturate water with lime is to drop into it 

stones of quicklime, stir, until the whole is slack, let the 

lime settle, then strain off* the clear water, and it is fit for 

lise. No change is required in the process of baking ; the 

lime most effectually coagulates the gluten, and the bread 

becomes light. 

663 1^" Dr. Muspratt, of Liverpool, in his " Chemistry 
as applied to the Arts and Manufactures," article " Bread,** 
strongly recommends the use of lime water. 

"Bridget," said a mistress to her Irish servant, "where's the gridiron?'*—*^ 
sure, ma'am, I's jist after giving it to ray sister's own cousin, Bridget O'flabtf^* 
the thing's so full of holes, it's no good at all." 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 191 

ExceUent and Economical Paste for Pies and 

CakeSy with Potatoe Flour. 
A VERY nice paste for meat or fruit pies may be made 
ith two-thirds of wheat flour, one-third of the flour of 
_.. , boiled potatoes, and some butter or dripping ; 
the whole being brought to a proper consistence 
""^ with warm water, and a small quantity of yeast 
Ided, when lightness is desired. 

665 1^* This will also make very pleasant cakes for 
'eakfast, and may be made with or without spices or 
lilts. 

^Lftsb telling several amnsing anecdotes, Mrs. Piozzi mentioned one of Sir Richard 
bb. One day somebody bad given him a bottle of castor oil, very pnre ; it had but 
idy been brought into use. Before he left his home he gave it in charge to his man, 
ling him to be careftil of it. After the lapse of a considerable time, Sir Richard 
ked his servant for the oil. "Oh, it's all nsed," replied he. **UsedI" said Sir 
duuxl; "how, and when, sir?'* — ^'* I put it in the castor when wanted, and gave 
to the company." 

lapital Luncheon Cake, that will keep Six Months, 
and save the trouble of frequent Making, 

Take two pounds of flour, one and a half pound of 

"eacle, half an ounce of ground ginger, quarter of a pound 

__. . of sugar, quarter of an ounce of ground caraway 

seed, and candied lemon-peel, cut very small. 

"^'^ Mix all well with the flour; warm the butter, 
ad mix with the rest; then warm the treacle; dissolve 
L a little boiling water a large teaspoonful of carbonate 
f soda, and stir it well into the treacle ; add to the other 
igredients ; work all well together, and bake in a buttered 
n two hours, in a rather slow oven. Wives whose hus- 
Euids are professional men, having frequently only time 
> take a snack and a glass of sherry in the middle of 
16 day, will win admiration by making these cakes, and 
ending them to their husbands' offices. 

Hoiheb: "Now, George, yon must divide the cake hononrably with brother 
lartle.** George: "What is * honourably,' mother?** Mother: "It means that 
•a most give him the larger piece." George: "Then, motlier, Vd rtUhtr GuarUt 
ouU be honaurtMe.*' 

Chopped Thistles an excellent Food for Cattle. 
Thistles, commonly regarded as one of the Farmer's 





192 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

pests, may be rendered subservient to farm-economj, h] 
~ . being chopped as food for cattle. Girls and boye 

may be employed to gather them widi hookecU— 3 

^"* knives ; they should be chopped when gathered in. 
quantity, and may be given, either green or dried, to cattle. 
In this V7ay horses will prefer them even to tares or oats 
and they will look well, and be as thoroughly up to thei] 
work as when kept upon the best of food. We thi 
find that the contemned donkey is not an ass, h&cause 
eats tJiistles! 

668 ^^ ITie simplest and best tvne for destroying 
is after they have made their growth, and just 
they show flower. Immediately after heavy rain, set 
labourer to work, with a pair of strong harveet gloves^ 
and pull them up, with as much root as possible, for 
a slow steady pull straight up is required. If in a fielc 
of corn, let the labourer begin on the outside land; 
he pulls up the thistles with his right hand, let him pbci 
them under his left arm, until he has got as many 
can well convey to either end of the field. From henc^> 
they may be carried and chopped for cattle. 




Good temper is the philosophy of the heart^a gem of the tireasmy within, 
rays are reflected on all outward objects ; a perpetual sunshine, imparting warmtk^ 
light, and life to all within the spheres of its influence. 

^ Food for Caitle^'* equal to any of the Patented 
Compounds^ at one-fourth the Cost. 

The best compound for fattening beasts, and keeping 

sheep in a growing and healthy condition daring the winter 

_.. . months, is one part beans or peas (if old« the better), 

one of linseed (which is preferable to oil-eake, m 

^^" it contains all the oil), one barley, and one wheai^ 
mixed and ground together. A small quantity of some 
warm condiment, as turmeric, may be added. This Ibod 
is to be given dry with the cut turnips to the fattening 
beasts, to be moistened by their saliva. The quantity 
given to sheep should be at the rate of half a bushel to 



IXTALUABLE HINTS. 193 

B hundred sheep, merely sprinkled over the turnips as 

condiment, just as we use pepper. Even this small 

antily will be found to have a remarkable effect. The 

[idiment provokes appetite, and is consequently found 

afhl to cattle which for fattening purposes are being 

^hly fed, and to hard-worked horses, tempting them 

eat when, from sheer exhaustion, they would scarcely 

inclined to do so without something to entice them. 

thus supplies the* place of the "cordial ball," which 

sometimes given with the same object in view. 

670 AST Boiled Barley is an excellent mash for Horses 
d Cows that are troubled with costiveness, as it corrects 
eir bowels without medicine (an object of great impor- 
Qce), and is both cheaper and more efficient than 
wol mashes. Boiled Barley is also a very nourishing 
pper for old . Horses ; it ought to be mixed up with 
.t seeds or oat dust, and the water it is boiled with 
Lould also be mixed with it. 

671 $SB^ Dry Barley doubles in measure when boiled, 
that, when joined with the dust or seeds, one peck of 

od will be produced from about one-fourth of a peck 
* barley ; and this, considering the strength of the sub- 
ance in connection with the cost price, will be found 
ach cheaper as a support to the animal, than fine or 
arse barley dust, or sharps, shellings or bran. 

672 1^" It has also been found on trial that boiled 
irley, when mixed as above, and given to Cows, is 
oductive of more milk than the usual food ; but when 
ven to Cows, it ought to be boiled amongst more water 
an for Horses, and the kine will benefit by drinking 
e surplus water, after it is cooled to the heat of new 
Llk. In no case whatever should either the Barley or 
fiter be given hotter than new milk, and care should 
I taken that it be consumed before getting sour. The 
'il of giving it too hot is apparent by its occasioning 

H 



194 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

swellings in the upper part of the mouth, especially of 
Horses, rendering them unable to chew hay or corn. 

673 1^* When Wlieat a little Damaged can be g(rt 
cheap, it is often bought up for feeding Cows and Hones. 
As it is a stronger substance than barley, and not good 
for either of these animals when raw, it ought to be well 
boiled, and should not be mixed with dust, but with Oat 
seeds, or small cut Hay or Straw, in order to keep it 
loose in the stomach of the animal, which renders it mcMre 
digestible and wholesome. 

Our attention has lately been directed to an invention for tybtaining milk It I 
BOlidifled form, for sea- voyages. A funny friend of oars, says, it most be a Ofltd 
invention, for solidified milk mnst obviously be ** quite the eheeee." 

An Economical use for Coal Ashes in Pig Feeding* 
Pigs will devour small coal ashes greedily, especiallj 
when feeding upon store food, raw vegetables, and the 
_. . "swill" of the house. In the absence of coal 
ashes, burned clay, or brick dust, is a good 
^' substitute. It is notorious that coal dealan^ 
whose pigs have access to the coals, are generally Buccessfol 
feeders. Those who find that their pigs, when shut up 
do not progress favourably, will do well to try this plan. » 
A score of fat pigs will consume a good-sized basket of 
burned clay and ashes daily. Young sucking-pigs are 
very fond of nibbling and eating coal ashes. The feet 
itself is invaluable, though we may not be able to explun 
the reason. Dogs often eat grass, and vomit afterwards ; ' 
and it may be that, as pigs are naturally root-grubberB, 
a provision has been made by nature for the reception of 
earthy particles into their digestive system. In their 
domesticated state they are deprived of this, and hence 
the good of ashes, burnt clay, 8cc., just as sand is good ^ 
cage birds. 

A PAmsH official, of sedate manners, fell on the pavement daring a frost, for ttl 
sufficient reason that he was intoxicated. Turning to the by-standera, he adadif 
" Are our bye-laws to be enforced, or not, I should like to know? Why dtmH ft* 
spread ashes be/ore your houses?** 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 195 

Potatoe lleaves as Food far Milch Caws, 

Norwegian farmers collect Potatoe Leaves^ and lay 

on on frames and fences, or anj other places where they 

y. - may be dried with facility; when dried, they 

are kept for making cooked mashes for milch cows. 

A good handful of them is put in a vessel for 

sh cow, and hot water poured over it ; it is then left 

stand covered until next day, when the leaves and 

ce are given to the cows. They yield much milk on 

[8 meal. 

looD and friendly conduct may meet with an tmworthy, -with an nngrateftil 
irn ; bat the absence of gratitade on the part of the receiver cannot destroy the 
-qpprohation which recompenses the giver. And we may scatter the seeds of 
rteqr and kindness aronnd us at so little expense. Some of them will inevitably 
A good ground, and grow up into benevolence in the mind of others, and all of 
n irtll bear fruit of happiness in the bosom whence they spring. Once blest are 
tbe Tirtnea always; twice blest sometimes. 

Fattening Turkeys and other Domestic Fowls 

with Charcoal. 
The fattening of Turkeys and other Fowls may be 
eady accelerated by mixing with their food a proportion 
-_• - of powdered charcoal. The following is the result 
of a careful experiment: — Four Turkeys were 
*"" confined in a pen, and fed on meal, boiled potatoes, 
id oats. Four others of the same brood were also at 
esame time confined in anot&er pen, and fed daily on 
e same articles, but with one pint of very finely pulverized 
tarcoal mixed with their meal and potatoes. They had 
BO a plentiful supply of broken charcoal in their pen. 
he eight were killed on the same day, and there was a 
flference of a pound and a half each in favour of the 
wis which had been supplied with the charcoal, they 
>ing much the fattest, and the meat greatly superior in 
»int of tenderness and flavour. 

677 8^* Onions are an excellent preventive and remedy 
r various diseases to which domestic Poultry is liable, 
or gapes, and inflammation of the eyes, throaty ^xiA. 
Bad, onions are almost a specific. Fo^\s, c^^^qa^^ 



196 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

chickens, may advantageously be fed with them twice 
or three times a week. The onions should be finely chopped, 
and a little pom-meal added. 

The trath is precious as it is divine. The tmth is predons, becaioe nottdng du 
is 80 near man's present and future welf&re. Tbere is not a sin, crime, wnngi or 
bad thing in the world, but, sweep away the dust of the earth around it, il itvda 
upon a lie, and fi^8ehood is the foundation of all eril. Sin came In irUh a Ue, ni 
the Devil told our mother— as he has told many of her daughters sfaioe— yot vtj 
sin and not suffer. The ruin of man stands upon a lie. 

Use for Rotten Wood. 

Dby Batten Woody being thrown into a pig-sty, tiie 
hogs will eat and fatten upon it. Not only is it a good 

-_. aliment for these animals; but they preserre 
better health by its use, than when kept widunt 

^™ it. 

679 I^T Pigs should be early taught to eat akudj, 
for the advantage of the pig, as well as of the owner. 
Nothing is easier. Give the weaned pig, at six or 
eight weeks old — in a clean trough — half a tea-cup of dry 
shorts or bran, and after his dry food is all eaten, gins lus 
drink, and increase the dry food according to the age tid 
appetite, till three months old ; then add one-half Indian 
meal for two months, and then dry Indian meal, till 
fattened sufficiently. This plan has been followed fbr 
five years with decided success. 

"Whose pigs are those, my lad?" ** Whoy, they beKmgf to that tiiere Min flv 
there." "No; I mean who is their master?" "Whoy," again answered tiie 1*^ 
" that little 'on there ; he*s a rare 'un to flight.** 

Usefulness of the Goat. 

Goats' milk is, except sheep's, the richest prodnood by 

domestic animals. It yields more butter and cheese ihiB 

_. that of the cow. Asses' milk is the poorest, and 

is only suitable to the debilitated stamach& 

Goats' milk boiled with rice makes excellent 

puddings. Goats require little or no management or care; 

they will do well on almost any kind of Y^etable fi)od; 

they browse freely on furze, brambles, thistles, and otilier 

wild vegetation. In wild and rocky situations, especuJ^ 



Mseo said ivlriii abound, tlae^ fnrsibeB Agreat^daal 
of <«i:<MlleBA anillB, and thrive to perf^tion where no otbar 
mmul woaUlvbe half so nseluL By Hie simple plan of 
coupling two milch goats together, like <^bgB, tfaej wmy, 
be fnewnled :fiK)m leaping ienoes, and .getting oitt of 
boHids. A good mikok goat wiU yield afooiit two quarto 
of flttMk -m day, «nd wiU vequire to be aailbed twioe, 

681 I^T The flesh of the goat oofmes into season «b 
tka -deer, firom Juiy to Hovember ; they furnish tallow of 
CBCittlent qwdity, iittte inferior to wazs: iar candles; the 
gigot and loin are the best parts, the haunches not so good ; 
tet % PiKigty of asiy part ef the 4e^ is better tiian anntton, 
ip>eiy litde inferior to Temson. 



alonr cf the old .lady <ys aoct) is eacaOcnt ficiag ^vry mivobs, 
riie told Sir Walter Fnonbsr sbd thoaMit Bath wonM -do her good. ** It^ veiy odd*" 
add Sir Walter, " but that's the very thing that I was going to recommend to you. 
I will write the particoUrs of yoor case to a very clever man there, in whose hands 
yoB will be well talEen care oC Tire lady, famished with the letter, set off, and on 
«nrii4ng at Newbury, feeling as usual very nervous, she sud to her confidant, ** Long 
as-'Sfar WUter has sMeaded rae, he has never explained to me what aUs me. I have 
a great mind to open his letter, and see what he has stated of my case to the Bath 
j pt iysMMi .'* In vain her Mend represented to her the breach of confidence thia 
voaild be. fihe opened the letter, and read, "Dear Daivis, keep the old lady three 
and then send her back again." 



An excellent use for Saw^dust, where it is plentifidy 

and Straw may he scarce. 
Saw-dust forms an excellent bedding for Horses during 
ihe summer months, and does wonders for the feet and legs ; 
but it is necessary to rake it over with an iron 
rake, and to pick out the feet night and morning. 
It should also be turned over with a shovel every 
fire or eix days, as it becomes hard. The best plan is, 
to rake the dung with the saw-dust ; it becomes dry and 
piflverizes quickly, and is free from any offensive smell. 
Brown beech saw-dust is better than white pine ; it is cheaper, 
free from turpentine, and supplies a strong and excellent 
msmiTe for the flower or kkehen garden. 

"^88 it^ The drains may be covered wi^fc saw-dustj as 
it is absorbent, and will not stop the drainage. The wet 
and soiled surface over the drains should be raked off daily^ 
and a little fresh added. When liie Bafw-dustibeoomesiniich 



198 THS FAXILT SAYS-ALL : 

diflcolonred and hardened, it should be taken away altogether 
for manure, the floor underneath swept, and three or four 
wheelbarrows of fresh saw-dust put on. This will not 
require to be done very often. 

684 I^T It is equally well adapted for stalls, loose- 
boxes, cow-houses, and forms also excellent lying for Dogtf 
keeping them much cleaner, and freer from infested coats, 
than when upon straw. 

685 I^T It is not so good for Fotols, but answers for 
pigs ; and, in the winter time^ should be mixed with strm 
in all cases. 

PxBsoNS who practiae deceit and irtifloe always deedre themaelTes more fhaa th«f 
deceive others. They may feel great complacency in riew of the ancceaa of tbdr 
doings ; bat they are in reality casting a mist before their own oyes. Such penons 
not only make a false estimate of thedur own character, bat they estimate ftliely tte 
opinions and condact of others. No person is obliged to tell aU he thinks; but Mb 
da^ and self-interest forbid him eyer to make false pretences. 

Saw-dust for Blanching Celery. 

Celebt in very retentive and damp soils may be blanched 

and preserved from rot and frost until a late period, by 

__. being earthed up with sawdust; it will keep 

wonderfully fresh, and the frost will not penetrate 

^ ^ far through the surface to the hearts ; slugs and 

insects generally will not attack it underground, and the 

heads will be found solid, clear, crisp, and well-flavoured. 

The mixed saw-dust of pits may be used ; it has been found 

that saw-dust of resinous trees does not affect the flavour 

of the celery. 

A BACHELOR firiend of oars, who went for a week to Brighton, left a boarding-hooH, 
in which there was a nnmber of old maids, on accoont of "the miserable /Wr" set 
before him at the table. 

To Prevent the Growth of BitttercupSy to the Inpay 

of Grass. 

Geese are very fond of the plant, and the goslings eat 

the flowers and seed-vessels, thus preventing the plants 

_. . seeding ; while the old geese scoop up the roots, 

biting off the leaves and rootlets. They eat the 

bulb with much relish, and if kept in sufficient 

numbers, in proportion to the ground, they will very soon. 



INYALUABLB HINTS. 199 

root np eveiy bnttercup. Thus the geese may be fed, and 
ifae pastures at the same time improved. 

A MAM in Lowell has ftr many weeks psst been sadly ailtteted wifh drowrine«, and 
a4eaii«t0 8leep, even beliDre the day has fkirhr closed. Fcmt a kng time he was vnaUe 
to discoTer the cause, bnt at last did so. Be has been in the habit of eating tggi, 
fried* booed, and raw, with his breakikst, and he conceires that they hare so entered 
hito his system, that it becomes necessary ibr him to retire when the kent go to rooU. 
It it also haa the eflbct of arousing him in tlie morning, when the bens bci(in to itir, 
the resolt will probably be benefldaL Bat of this there is some doobi. 

A Hint for the Sporting Season. 

Newlt ground Coffeey sprinkled over GauMy will keep it 
sweet and fresh for several days. Clean the game ; that 

_ . is, wipe off the blood, cover the wounded parts 
with absorbent paper, wrap np the heads, and then 

^^ sprinkle ground cofifee over and amongst the 
feathers or fur, as the case may be ; pack up carefuUy, and 
the game will be preserved fresh and sweet in the most 
un&vourable weather. Game sent open and loose cannot, 
of course, be treated in this manner ; but all game packed 
in boxes or hampers may be deodorised as described. A 
tea^-spoonful of coffee is enough for a brace of birds; and in 
ihiB proportion for more or for larger game. 

689 1^^ Fresh ground coffee may be used with ad- 
vantage in a Sick Boom; a few spoonsfril should be spread 
and exposed on a plate. 

690 S^T Burned by a red-hot iron, it is a safe and 
pleasant iumigator. 

"Why is it, dear, that wfaenerer we send for a poond of tea or ooflSee, the grocer 
ahnqrs sends it an ounce short?" **Oii, my dear, U's only ajMoiMar welffh he has!** 

Advantages of Salting Wheat in the Mow. 

Most farmers know the effect of salting rather green 
hay, when it is put into the mow. But few have even 

_. . thought of or practised Salting Wheat. It is 
worth a triaL €k>mmence on one side, placing 

^^ the sheaves in regular layers, with the butts out- 
side, tramping heavily on the butt of each, as it is laid 
down. Place the next layer with the tops lapping about 
half-way over the first, care being taken to keep the 



2Q0 THE FAMILY aAYB-AItL : 

haftds or 4aps oppeFmost. When the ^tttire Jipaee c^ tibo 
mow is covered in tkk way, spriakld <€OHunon groand 
salt over the mow on the top of the layer, at the rate of 
foBT qnarts to ereiy twenty dosen f^eetvm of wbeit 
— « greater proportioa of arit if tiie sheaireB -are hstgo. 
DnriBg ite sweatmgy the salt is disBoli^'and abB ortio d bjr 
the grain and straw. The effect has been found to make 
the grain brighter, and bring a better pice per bushel 
tlmn that whidi has not been salted. MiUen flay that 
tin yield of iBoor is larger and whiter. VattU eat tin 
siraw fi>eely ; and the eait is an efiectnal mmodsf against 
the Bam WeenL 



NueiMUiu «> wieh fum a waggttm >m to be mat far in 4HM .hMte, aofl to 
flad after his arrival that nothing, or next to nothing, is the matter with Us 
urtlMtt. We read of an "laqgeBt case" of flria Uad reooideAaf an ■ imlatnt.— fai. 
He had been sent for by a gentleman who had Just recetred a slight woond, ud 
gave his aorant OTders to go home wtlli all Baste imaginjMB, anl feteb'a -certiii 
plaster. T^e patient, taming a little pale, said : ** Heavens, sir, I hope there ii 
no idanger !*'—** Indeed, there is,** answered the surgeon; **tat If the^sUoir dean^ 
nm like a race-horse the wound will be healed before he can poaaihly get hackr 

lb Prwent Harsei Feet BaJUimg mtk Snow. 

Soft Soap, brushed into horses' hoofs, will prevent fteir 
feet balling with snow, but its effect does not last long. 

-.. . Or Melted Suet poured into I3ke hoof. A. simple 
and certain preventiye against balling is GfiMa 

^^^ Fercha, about the thickness of leather used fer 
shoeing. Cut it so as to fit tightly the inside of tiie dioe 
and hoof, by heating it in hot water. It can be placed 
in, or removed, by letting the feet stand in a pail of hot 
water ; the flat surface leaves no comers for the snow 
to stick in. 

693 H^ The same application of Gutta Pertha is vmj 
good for horses with tender fut, on stony roads^ in tho 
summer time. 

694 1^^ Another and more perfect plan for Preventing 
Balling and Slipping, is to have three screw«lM)tes in the 
shoe, one:at the apex, and the others at ikud heeL Screw 
steel wedges tightly into these holes, the shoe and sole 
being oovered by strong leathw or gutta percha.previottfily^ 



I]nrAI.ITABIiE HINTS. 201 

w^icb ihe screws will keep in plaoe^ koles liayii^ baan 
ande to admit the serews. A horse thas protected nn^ 
g4ll(^ with safety, eithm* on snow or iee. The screiPB 
BMj be taken off when not wanted, aa the shoe is an 
eidinary one, wtth thjpee holes in iL 

Tbb MIowing is a i^ood stoiy aboat a clergyman, who lost Ids horse one Sotordaj 
evening. After hunting for it in com])any with a boy nntil midnight, he gave np 
iB despair. The next day he took ftr his text Hm fidJwiag iMUsage from Job : 
**0h, that I knew where I might find. him!" The boy, who had Jnst cqme hi, 
siqjpodng the horse was stSl the bBrden of <fc«*«f|^ oHed ont^ **I know where he 
is, sir— he's in Tom Smiths stable !" 

To Increase the Produce of late Peas, Scarlet Runners^ 

and Kidney Beans. 
Take care not to allow a single pod to ripen or grow 
old ; pluck them carefully ; the object being to prevent 
„. the plant from maturing amy part cf its fruity 
which prevents more pods, being formed with 
the plants standing for seed. The plants thus 
being deprived of their first fruits, will continue to make 
effi)rt8 to produce more young, and these will keep up 
a continuous supply for the table. If in dry weather,^ a 
drenching with the watering-pot (avoiding wetting the 
leaves or stem) will be found to produce immediate 
good effects. And if care is observed not to tear the 
stalks, leaves, or tendrils, when gathering the young pods, 
five or dm times the quantity of young Peas er JBeans may 
be obtamed for the tahle^ 

696 1^ To obtain Earfy Seaapkt Mumnm :'^-AX the 
end of the autumn, cut off the tops of the M plants a 
few inches above the ground when they are dying off; 
take up the roots, and keep them in dry sand during 
the winter, out of the reach of frost, but in a cool dry 
place. [The roots must not be eaten, as th^ are noxious.] 
At the end of February, or early in March, plant them 
in a frame without any heat, and in a few weeks they 
will sprout ; if the sun should be powerfrj, shade with 
evergreens for a f&w days ; the same protection will serve 
against frost. In iSiis way the first dish of beams wsaff be 



202 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

obtained twenty daySy or morey earlier than hy the wid 
method; they will bear plentifully throughout the season, 
and run less to wood than those that are sown. 

A OENTLEKAir having in his garden a snperabnndance of peaches that vere orar- 
ripe, gave a quantity of them to some Iri:ih labourers. On asking one of the men 
how he liked the fridt, he said they were very good, bat A« teedi tcratdted hi$ Utnst 
a Httie as they wefU down. 

Method of Preserving Growing Fruit Damaged ly 

Tom-tits, Wasps, 8fc. 

In many instances the finest Pears, Apricots, &c., are 

pecked by Tom-tits, or gnawed by Wasps ; the holes 

__. . thus formed are then acted upon by air and 

rain, and the fruit decays. In such cases it 

697 

"*" is an effective plan to fill the holes as soon as 

possible with a little plaster of Paris and water; this 
excludes the air and rain, without injuring the flavoorof 
the fruit, and it entirely arrests decay. 

698 US' -^ Hawk stuffed, with expanded wingS) 
affixed by a string, and attached to a long thin rod 
fixed horizontally to the top of a tree, will scare away 
birds from fruit-trees over a considerable space. A live 
Hawk, kept in a cage near the same spot, will, by 
occasional noises, greatly increase the effect. 

Bbidoet, Just arrived from sweet Erin, and snogly ensconced with a geoted 
fiunily as maid-of-all-work, sat down to her first meaL Having dimintehed the 
substantials, she came to apple pie. It was something entirely new to her. She 
viewed it from all quarters, and examined it very ndnntely. I9ie then remored 
the npper-crust, and commenced eating the apple, carefoJly scraphig it from tbe 
under-cmst. Her mistress observed her, and nid *' Bridget, why do yoa eat tbe 
pie in that manner?" A little startled, Bridget looked np, and exclaimed, **Does 
ye ihhik rd be aUing the boxingV 

The Best Method of Destroying Weeds in Boads 

and Walks, 
Apply clean dry agricultural Salt by the hand ; and 
where the weeds are strong, there let there be the more 
-J.. , liberal application. Choose a hot day, in pre- 
ference to wet or stormy weather. By going 
over the roads twice a year — in March and 
September — the weeds never get very strong; and there 



INYALITABLE HINTS.^ 203 

Iff no other plan of extirpation of weeds upon a large scale 
so efficacious as this. Bj this waj of cleaning roads, 
ron do not disturb a single stone; and the harder the 
*oad the fewer the weeds, and of course so much better 
travelling. 

700 AST The Salt should be applied earli/ in March, 
K) that it m&j be thoroughly washed in before the sun 
las too much power, otherwise a white crystallization will 
>e left on the gravel under the drying influence of the sun. 
Boiling water and salt does not prove nearly so efficacious 
IS dry salt, when used at a very early period of the 
^ear. 

701 1^^ Waste Salty from the bacon-curer's, is very 
afficacious for the purpose ; the effect is always greatest 
Fhen it lies upon the ground a few days, before being 
lissolved by the rain. Salt is not only useful for clearing 
tihe surface, but also for consolidating the walks ; it 
^eatly improves their appeai'ance, and renders them 
more comfortable for walking. 

NoiHiNO can \|e more touching fhan to behold a soft and tender woman, who had 
leen all weakness and dependence while treading the prosperons paths of life, sudden^ 
daing in mental force to be the comforter and supporter of her hnsband under 
niafortune. As the Tine which lias long twined its graceful ibliage about the oak, 
ind been lifted by it into sunshine, will, when the hardy tree is rifted by the 
Imnderbolt, cling round it with its caressing tendrils, and bind up its shattered 
xmghs, so woman, who is the dependent and ornament of man in his hapirier 
joan, should be his stay and solace when smitten with sudden calamity. 

An Effective and Ea>sy Method of Destroying 

Wasps in their Nests, 

Between nine and ten o'clock in the evening, having 

previously marked the localities of the nests, take a can of 

--. . GaS'tar, and pour a little into the entrance to the 

nest, then stuff in a pellet of dry grass, and pour 

some more gas-tar over it. If the hole happens 

o be in a wall, dip a piece of tow or cotton in the gas-tar, 

ind stuff it into the hole. It is well to go round again in & 

lay or two, to see if the wasps have been destroyed, as they 

lometimes find a second opening, through which they comii 



2M THB TAJQLT SATS-ALL : 

mudeote widi'the ant. When tfa» ^apfomyiiiM^.proQQW 
iiMW* be TCfMdted at :^e new outlet, 

7D3 jIO" fli^jnina7bBdiT«rted.fr(ima4^^ 
faiMdBg mstrptocedinthe fdrks of die braoiciiai. fiid^ 
pound of sugar is sufficient for a large fruit-tree^ 

SEAN SWIFTS BECIBE FOB COURTSHIP. 



Two or 'lliree- Abb* aad Ipnd m Ham 

Two or three balls or two or three treats, 
TTwo Mr threa soranaAta. glwn as « Han, 
Two or three oaths how much th^ endnre. 
Two or Mvrae messages srat in ane- d^Ft 
Two or three thnes led out from the play. 
Two or time tUdcets for two or tlvse timai, 
Two or three love-letters writ all in rhjnanes ; 
Two or three months keeping strict to these roles 
Can nerer fiUl making a couple of fixria. 

An Excellent Dye from Sarse ChestmiXM. 

"^i^a^ Horse GhestnMt ^fibrds a Talualite permaneot dp' 
f<fr Biiislin, cotton, ^dc., is littki known, Imt may ]w lelidi 
^. i^pcHi. Tte d^ "^MMA from a sort of buff 19 
dull nankeen, accordzng to the degnoe di t^bbm 

'^ of the iruit, When.about the «ze of a goosebeniTf 
cii«4ihe whole fruit into quarters, and 4i»teep it m. soft watei^ , 
mlh jnst enfimgh soap to tinge it ; when deep enou^ftr 
usfi^ pour off the clear water. In all cases, the water most 
be cold; if boiled, ihe dye is of a more dingy colour. The 
colour from the whole fruit is bufP, — ^not unlike that of 
anotta. The husks only, when the fruit is nearly or 
quite ripe — ^not cut, but broken up and steeped in cdd 
wtttor, witii a tinge of soap as aboTO— yieU. a dye wittdb 
wflL te more or less bright acoording to €im degree s£ 
rifeeesB ^ the hosk. If out, the kiiife stoins tiiee huski^ 
atti ^e ooleur as not eo good. 



... lives in Harley Street. His wife, who is an economical body, had sent i 

sUlk 09wn to« Freack dyer. The dyer called to ask for some finther instrootians 4Mhl 
fhoae he had received, when, as it happened, he met the husband of the lady at tiiB 
dodr. " b madam ivftidn?** asked the Fnmclnman, with an emphaUc KBBticnUstfMi 
**Aiid8appo8e she is,— what do you want with her?** ** Oh 1 / am dyeing for *•*, 
sort/*' "WhatI you djy^ fff ^» wifi—is^wt of mj honae, yoa woundiair' 
He bad Just raised hisiiDOt to kick Monsieur into the street, when the timely afipesr- 
andb «r ttie lady led «> «i» w ii— my eKg 'e'wtt W' 



Bett MMod of Makmff Fimr from Horse, Cbmbiwb. 

Gbind the waA»y kbA mix witii thd pulp carbonate of 
soda in the proportion of cme or two per cent, at the utmost, 
and then, wash the produce until it is perfectly whiter One 

_-., . pound of carbonate of soda will purify one 
hundred pounds of horse chestnuts,, and produce 

'^^ sixty pounds of flour fit for bread,, as tk» salt 
removes the bitter principle from the not. 

706 BS^ When Horse Chestnuts are ground into pow- 
der, the bitter principle is easily extracted by repeated 
waahings in cold water ; after which ai wholesome, and 
nutritious starch remains, which has allthaigooi qualities 
of arrowroot. 

Why flbonld not a cbJld's foacy in tbe way of fcNMi— we refer to its intense dttUkaof 
eertain tilings— be regarded, as well as the r e p ug n an ce of an adnlt. We eensHer 
it m. greet piece of. cmelty to force a child to eat things that are repdIsiTe to it, 
*)ecanse somebody once wrote a wise saw to tiie eflfent, **iftat children shonlOi mi 
wliatever is set before them." We have often seen tbefpeor little idctinis sbadder and 
tSbidkB at tiie sight of a bit of fot meat, or a nttle scmn of cream on boHed-nriOc, 
teotlSMuneeiiiiOKb to : those wlio like them, bat in their easa a.. purgatorial, inflislian. 
Wbenever there is this decided antipathy, nature should be respected, eten in 'the 
wnoB-oftheemaUest child; aad he who would act ofchevnte i« hisisetf rnuttVithaa 
tte child over whom he would so uqjustiflably tynumise. 

A Novel way of killing Magpies upon Faxau^ 
where they are found ta Destroj/^ JEggs^ 

It is a well-established fact that magpies will allow 
women to approaekliiem^. though they an». exceedingly shy 

_«. . of men. When you wish to shoot them, put on a 
lady's cloak and bonnet, conceal the gun, and 

" ' walk towards the birds, but not in a ^rect line. 
This, though a laughable stratagem, will almost inTftrkbly 
be fbvLud to succeed. 

708 |@r Some keepers entice magpies near them, by 
concealing themselves, and imitating the cry^ of an ensnared 
hare, or of the bird itself. The latter is done by placmg 
tbe lips on the back of the hand, and drawing in the breath 
^Oi a smart chirp. These plans succeed admirably. 

'*Tbat air, do you sell pies 7**^ said a gentleman, as he strolled into a pastrycotfAi 
. dMp. ** Oh yes, sir," repUad.tbe pastQFCoek, " pieaof all sorts.*'-** Why, then/* saidftbe 

centteman, '* let me have a mag-pie." ** That is the only sort of pte in which I ddnok 
> mtiy** replied the pastryeoolb ; /' but yon will find plen^ of tbem. as you. §f> 

Hbr Mrds of a feather will flock together, they say.** 



206 THE FAMILY SAYE-ALL : 

A superior Method of taking Honey from Bee Him, 

without hilling the Bees. 

PouB two teaspoonsful of Chloroform into a piece of 

rag, double it twice, and place it on the floor-board of the 

_. hive, which must be lifted for the purpose, the 

entrance-hole being carefully secured. In ajbont 

* two minutes and a half there will be a loud 

humming, which will soon cease. Let the hive remain 
in this state for six or seven minutes, making about ten 
minutes in all. Remove the hive, and the greater number 
of the bees will be found lying senseless on the board; 
there will still be a few clinging between the combs, some 
of which may be brushed out with a feather. They return 
to animation in from half an hour to one hour after the 
operation. This plan possesses a great superiority oyer 
the usual mode of brimstoning, the bees being preserved 
alive ; and over the more modem plan of fumigation bj 
puff-ball; it is far less trouble, and the honey does not 
become tainted with the ftmies. The expense is three- 
pence per hive. 

Wink at small injuries rather than arenge them. H, to destroy a single bee,70ii 
throw down tlie hive, instead of one enemy, yon make a tlionsand. 

A certain Remedy for the JPotatoe Disease. 

The Potatoe Disease may be said to have perplexed the 

wisdom of our profoundest philosophers, and to have baffled 

--. . the skill of practical men. It has, however, been 

recently demonstrated by microscopical examina- 

tion, that the malady which has so seriously 

affected a very important article of food, is due to the deposi' 

tion by the atmosphere of a minute Jungus, whichy taking up its 

habitation first upon the leaf and the haulm of the potatoe 

plant, propagates with astonishing rapidity, and rapidbf 

finds its way to the tubers, and destroys them. Having, at 

first, without a knowledge of this remedy, tried success- 

ftilly an experiment which we have since found to entirely 



INYALUABLE HINTS. 2W 

tuscord with it, we are anxious to make known our 
experience, iiiat others may profit hj the result. 

711 feST Last season, we departed from the old system, 
80 fiir as the greater part of our crop was concerned, and 
pursued the following plan: We planted the potatoes in 
double rows, instead of single, the two rows occupying 
about a foot in width, a foot of vacant space remaining 
on the outside of each row ; they were planted upon 
the level ground, and hoed up at the usual time. 

712 fST When the haulm had reached its full growth, 
or about the 1st of July, we turned it over right and 
left towards the vacant spaces, by adding earth between 
the rows, and pressing down the haulms, so as to prevent 
their erect position, and to allow the ram falling upon 
ihem^ instead of descending direct to the roots, to fall upon 
the vacant spaces. 

713 US' The hind of potatoes upon which we ex- 
perimented, were Regents and Flukes. Of the former 
we planted one portion upon the old system, and a larger 
portion upon the new ; the Flukes were all planted upon 
the new system. The soil consists of clay, — about as 
•bad a description of land as can be devoted to the growth 
of a potatoe crop. 

714 l$Sr The result was, that the Regents, planted 
upon the new system, turned out to be a good crop, while 
those upon the old plan were a complete failure, although 
grown upon a part of the same plot of ground, and 
planted at the same time :from the same seed. The 
Flukes produced an excellent crop, not two in a hundred 
being bad ; while our neighbours, for milds* round, without 
exception, lost their crops. 

715 1^* The efficacy of this system has been proved, 
not alone by our own experience, and that of several 
others who have tried it, but has been attested by the 
following curious circumstance : — A, gentleman, who had 
planted a bed of potatoes, having a number of planks 



^hich he required to be put out of the ymj^ b«t not 
knowing; how to dkpoee of them„ allowed, thoa. to be 
thrown dowa upon a part of the potatoe IwcL l]^n 
removing the plank& some time afterwajsds^ and digging 
the ground, fullj expecting to find that, the pototoaar n^uch 
had been covered and pressed down hj the plaakai weie 
oompletelj destroyed^ he fbuad» to laSa aarpriai^ that ihae 
which the pknka had Ifeun upon were la eaDMUani. oondi- 
tion^ while those -vi^iieh had be«i exposad. ia the- <HEdinaty 
Banner were diseased^ The ksj^ia^ dawrk^^e ^Stmnhai had, 
4a thig mstansAy effeeUd ike turmmg- over ^f tht, harnktUf cud 
tkeiUred the ,poUrtB9a Jrom. toei; aad the rtimiit mar ob 
good a& if the system wa^ haeve TOfnmmcTidad had ben 
oanied cmt by designh. 



Tbbim iB- nothing ia th& «»iT«i!WBfli«vdeiiariie.tlMa a <te aia^ So iMurv 
arman has this, he has that which nothing cila suhdhe, he haa that wlliBli tacminK 
can snhyert, he haa that which renders him a monarch, thaagh. ha wutf- tte imax 
iipon the bare and cold boaom of his mother earth. 

Method f^ Impromnff Seed Patatoesu 

Keep back some Seed JRotaiam fiur six or sevoft; Mvedra 
afiar the usual tiiaeof planting sa^ till thO'Iasi worit in 

-.. . Jun&y or the iist. we^ ol^Julj^aaid, thttkiplaat 
and cKiltiiMile ihen. the asiae aa litoek ttotalofli. 

fxv They will grow imtil the frost wiihera thorhoulnMl, 
when thej should be dag^ Aa> the^ ha^^not 4uii tin to 
matarey they will be quite wnidlr-HiQi saove than an iaeh 
or aa indh and a. half ihrou^; httt they ehouUL all ha 
oarefttlly gath^red^ and hdipt safe £-aaL frost thneugik the 
winter, and planted at. the usual tiiaa ofi pkntingr Ae 
jEoUowing^spving-HBae of the Hraall potatoea being, snffioieat 
Hur seed in. each, hola The. lesiilt wiJi be lasgeHuaad, 
sound, mealy potatoes, as the pka. haa proYod bf aotpal 

triaL 

717 119^ Potatoes dnnld^he <mt thsee or fiMv* wtfde 
before j^anting, in erder thai they laay hmm tima/ tr dbae 
the poiesy so asddenly exposed.; tiiia they will d»' lif a 
4farilrel£aig"«ifed oontraetioa of . tin mnnded sorface. aaA Jt 



IKVALTJABLE HIKT3. 209^ 

dfTiiig up ctf ^9 j«dceB on the cat parts, forming a <i^in or 
omtL Fresh-ent potetow are iiaUe to rot, and canker, 
to wire-worms, «iid «ther iasedis, ^vdiicli prej upon braised 

*■! «x n>TTft Mr. ^RDwii, to «ee this field of -potatoes «o dtoeBSflA,** laia a 
qrmpatbifliqg inapector. **;AJb, veel, it*j a great itUy,'* zi^DlMl the Mma^ **\aib 
tkettfn ane cooiftnrt— ^oei TioamonU ii mot a bU bttterP* 

Mow to Grow JLcaye JPatatoe^, 

To improrve tbe biiib -of JPoMoeMf i^hsf^er plaalied witik 

small or large, whole or ^van-oat tuhera, when, the plants 

__. . are only a few inches high, let the shoots be 

reduced by pulling them up lo one, vtwo, or at 

• most three oi the strongest. The tubers will 

consequently be fewer, and very much larger, also < in 

measure nearly all fit for the table or the market. 

719 J^^ Growers may assure themselv^fi of the 
efi&cacy of this method, by first .experimenting upon a 
few rows. 

Sib Thoscas Otebbubt says, that the man who haa not anything to hoast of but 
hia filnstrkraa aacertars, is iike a jMMoa— the cnly good thing MongiBg to liim ia 
under ground, 

Mffmsdjf for JFrozen J^otaJtoes. 

In the time of frosts, potatoes that have been ofiected 

ijiereby, ^ould be laid in a perfectly dark plaee for some 

--. days alitor the thaw has commenced. If thawed 

in cipen day, they rot ; but if in darkness, they 

'*" do not rot ; and they lose very little of their 
natural properties. 

721 l@* The water in which Potatoes has been ^boiled 
is excellent. for Chilblains, The feet or hands should Ite 
bathed in the water as hot as can be borne. It will 
afford immediate relief, and prevent breaking. 

The followhig is a copy of an excuse recently lianded in to a schoohnaster fior the 
npiMiiiiendaooB of «ie of liis lokoters ;— <^iCtiiirtoTatrBnataftiring.**— jr<y< m Amm to 
ffo a^tatttring t 

Rxtatoes sMgbUy Diseased, Reserved by Peat ChareoaL 
.Whek FakOoes aro slightty diseased, sprinkllo^ P«fll 



210 THE FAMILT SAYS-ALL : 

Charcoal among them instantly stays the to% takes sway 

-.. . the bad smell, and renders them sweet and 

wholesome food. Potatoes may be kept in this 

•^ way two years, and when planted the third they 

will produce a good crop. The charcoal will also prevent 

the sound potatoes from being infected by the 

ones. 

723 JfS' ^0 charcoal need not be lost ; it may 

mixed with other manures when the potatoes are removed^i. 

A woaKTtno yoath has discorered the cause of the potatoe dinase. He aaoflMB- 
it to the r9t-4atar'P movement 1 

Means of Doubling a Crop of Potatoes, toitkout 

increased expenditure. 

A DOUBLE crop of potatoes may be obtained by pursuii 
the following course : When the potatoes have come 

_-. . maturity, take off the loose earth carefully, wil 

out disturbing the old stem ; pick away the tuber*^ s 

*^ that are fit for immediate use ; be careful not ^^ 
disturb the main stalk, then cover over the small Qn^0 
that are left, and add a little more earth. In about ti^^o 
months after, the later crop will be more productive thikXi 
the first. 

" Papa, I planted some potatoes In onr garden/* said one of the smart tads td 
this generation, " and what do yoa thinic came up ?" ** Whf, potatoes, of ooam.* 
**No, indeed, there came up a drov of hogt and €ai thtm ottt** 

Advice and Precautions respecting Fires. 

Be careful to acquaint yourself with the best means' 

of escape from a house, both at the roof and on the 

ground. The father of a family should make 

himself familiar with the means of outlet to 

' the roof, and with the best way of passing 

therefrom to the adjoining premises. 

726 H^ On the first alarm, reflect before you actf 
if in bed at the time, wrap yourself in a blanket or 
bed-side carpet ; open no more doors or windows than 
are absolutely necessary, and shut every door after yoa. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 211 

?7 B^" There is always from eight to twelve 
38 of pure air close to the ground. If you cannot 

upright through the smoke, drop on your hands 
knees, and thus go on. A wetted silk handkerchief, a 
) of fannel, or a worsted stocking drawn over the 

permits breathing, and, to a great extent, excludes 
:e. 

8 J/S' If you can neither make your way upwards 
downwards, get into a front room. If there is a 
y, see that they are all collected here, and keep 
door closed as long as possible, as smoke always 
^s a draught. 

9 8^ On no account throw yourself, or allow 
•8 to throw themselves from the windows. If no 
:ance is at hand, and you are in extremity, tie the 
s together, and having fastened one end to some 
f piece of furniture, let down the women and 
ren, one by one, by tying the end of the line of 
s round the waist, and lowering them through the 
Dw over the door, rather than over the area. You 
then let yourself down, when the helpless are 

) l^r K a woman's clothes should catch fire, let 
•oil herself over on the ground ; if a man be 
Qt, let him throw her down, if necessary, and 
her in a rug, coat, or anything at hand. 
I l^f Bystanders, the instant they see a fire, should 
for a fire-escape (or to the police-station, if that 
i be nearer), where a jumping-sheet is always 



On the first discovery of a fire, it is of the 
it consequence to close, and keep closed, all the 
, windows, and other openings. 
\ 8^ It may often be observed, after a house 
sen on fire, that one floor is comparatively untouched, 
those above and below are nearly burnt out. 



212 THB FAMILT 0A.VB-ALL : 

This arises fr(»n the doors en tkat particular fliMr haijiig 
been closed, and the draught directed elsewhere. 

734 fl^ If the Sre appears seruKis, and t^eve an 
fire-engines at a reastmable distance, it is best to await 
their arrival, as masoj buildings have been lost fiwL 
opening the doors, and attempting to extingoifllL fan 
without adequate means. 

^^ B^ If 1^0 engines are within reach, it is well 
to keep a hand-pump. If that is not to be iutd, tlie 
next best thing is to collect as many buckets outsit 
the room on fire as can be obtained, keeping liie doer 
closed ; then creep into the room on tiie hands and 
knees (if the heat and smoke are considera]^), and 
throw water as nearly in the direction of the fiio as 
possible, keeping the door closed, while moi« water 
is being collected. 

736 B^" Baking out the fire before going to bed is 
a dangerous practice. It should be allowed to go out 
A fire-guard should be placed before every fire so kft. 

737 1^" Children should be early taught to jp/vw wt 
sparks that may fall upon their clothing ; and throw 
themselves down when their clothes become ignited. 



The bright fire is tht eye of (he home: it bespeaks cheerftitaiefls, peae»,M 
confbrt. About it the sweet courtesies of life,— in which there is no pusde nor 
affectation, which manifest themselves in Idnd words and affeottooald kwki— diutnr 
naturally and gtace&iUy. 

General JPreeautwns against Fires in Farms^ ^c. 
Forbid the use of Indler matches, smokiag, tixe faaag 
_. . of guns, or fsny other unnecessary uae of firo or 
combustibled in or near the ridL-yard. or near 
*"" to any wooden out-building on the farm* 
789 |@^ Keep the rick-yard, and especially the epaoes 
between the stacks and ricks, clear of loeee straw. 

740 1@" Place the ricks in a single line,^ and as far 
distant from each other as ma/ be convenient. If faaf- 
ricks and comnstacks are placed altemattely, ithe formst' 
will check the progress of the fire frooi atock 4a staoh. 



S^YALUAIILB HINTS. 213 

741 I^F When a steam thrashing madiine is to be 
Qtedy pfesee it an the ke side of the stack or bam, so 
that the wind may blow the sparks cacay from the stacia. 
Have the knise straws frequentiy deared awaj from the 
SBgine ; aftd keep two or- tiiree pails of water ckisB at 
hand ; and see that the ash-pan is kept full of water. 

To Attract enstomen, Ftmie haa put up- an Electrio Clock in ftto- Aop, asd is 
tarildj annoyed by boys running in to inquire Uie time of day. The otbei evening, 
as we were buying a cigar, a little shaver came in with the nsnal ** Please, air, 
tiU me what time it is."— ** Why, I told you the time not a minute ago," said the 
utoniahed tobacconist. — "Tes, sir," replied the lad, **but this is for another woman." 

When a Fire breaks out in a Farm Yard*. 

Do not allow the rii^ or stack whieh mej have taken 

ftre ta be disturbed ;. let it })unx out r but moke every 

. exertion to press it eompactlj together, and as 

far as practicable prevent anj^ lighted particles 

'^^ ^mg about. 

74d K^ Geet together blankets, earpets, sacks, n^a, 
and other similar articles; soak them thoroughly in water, 
and place them over and against tiie adjoining ricks and 
steeks,. tovrards which the wind blows. 

744 mSF Having thus covered the sides of the rieks 
•joining that on fire^ devote all your atteation to the 
ktter. 

745 i$3F Press it together b^ every available means. 
If water i& at hand^ throw upon it as mueh as possible. 
If engines arrhre, let the watar be tiikrown upcm the 
blankets^ die, covering the adjoining stacks, and then 
iqxm the stad^ on fire. 

746 tS' Among tibe numcroHft hands fih» flock to 
assist on these ooca«ons, mw^ do miachief by their waBi^ 
of knowledge, and. especii^ by opening liie fired stack 
aosd; scattering the embers. In order to obviate this evil, 
l^aee your best man ia comiaand otveit ^D^ stack <mi fire, 
desive him to make it bis sole duty to prevent it being 
diatiirbed, and to keep it pressed and watered. 

747 iSr Pi^e ether men, in whose steadiness yoa 



214 THE FAMILY SAYB-ALL : 

have confidence, to watch the adjoining ricks, to keep 
the coverings over them, and to extinguish any embers 
flying from the stack on fire. In order to efiect this, it 
is most desirable that there should be ladders at hand, to 
enable one or two of the labourers to mount upon each 
stack. 

748 JiS' I^ the ricks are separated from each other, 
and there is no danger of the fire extending to a second, 
it is of course desirable to save as much of the one on 
fire as may be possible. That, however, is not unfre- 
quently accomplished by keeping the rick compactly 
together rather than by opening it. 

749 B^ Send for all the neighbours* blankets and 
tarpaulins ; these are invaluable ; they are near at hand, 
xmd can be immediately applied. 

Greatness lies not in being strong, but in the right nse of strengtti; and Btrengfh 
is not used rightly when it only serres to carry a man above Ms fellows for hii 
own solitary glory. He is greatest whose strength carries np the most hearts \ij 
the attraction of his own. 

A simple Fire Escape, 

Drive a strong staple into the upper part of the wiiif 

dow-frame of any sleeping or other room, and provide two 

__. blocks, with two or three pulleys in each. Put 

a strong rope through each pulley, of a length 

sufficient to reach the ground. Provide also a 

strong sack about four feet deep, into which fix a wooden 

bottom, and a few hoops, to keep the sack open. 

761 ^SS* Should a fire happen, let the hoop of the 
upper block be hung to the staple ; the person to be 
saved should stand upon the wooden bottom of the sack, 
draw the sack up around him, and hang the string of the 
sack on the hook of the under block, and then any one 
person may, with ease and safety, let down a whole family 
one by one, and at last lower himself down, by holding 
the rope in his hand, and letting it out by degrees. 

762 B^ In cases of fire, it is very difficult to manage 
Horses, The best way is, to blind them with cloths, 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 215 

And back them out. Putting the saddle or harness upon 
then* backs will sometimes divert their attention from the 
alarm, and induce them to leave the stable. 

753 8^* To extinguish Chimneys on FirCy throw on 
the fire salt, or flour of sulphur. Block up the fire- 
place with wet rugs or carpet. 

A •wrm fellow slipped down on an icj pavement. While Bittinjir he muttered, 
*'I have no desire to see the town burnt hut I sincerely wish the streets were 
laid in ashes." 

To Prevent Injuries and Deaths from the Ignition of 

Clothing, 

Messrs. Johnson & Sons, 18 a, Basinghall Street, 
London, have experimented upon the Tungstate of Soda, 

J-, . and succeeded in producing a refined prepara- 
tion of it, which may be employed to render 

' the most delicate fabrics iminflammable, without 

the slightest risk of injury to their whiteness, texture, 
or colour. One penny-worth of this preparation, used 
with the starch in getting up a muslin dress, will render 
it certainly uninflammable. The only caution necessary 
to be observed in the use of this preparation is, that it 
should not be employed for those parts of clothing 
which infants ai*e liable to suck. 

755 1@" An ounce of Alum dissolved in the last water 
used to rinse children's dresses, will render then uninflam- 
mable, or so slightly combustible that they would take 
fire very slowly, if at all, and would not flame. 

756 1^^ It ought also to be generally known that all 
ladies' light dresses may be made fire-proof at a trifling 
cost, by steeping them, or the linen or cotton used in 
making, in a diluted solution of Chloride of Zinc. We 
have seen the finest cambric so prepared, held in the flame 
of a candle, and charred to dust, without igniting. 

Taks care always to form your establishment so much within your income as to 
leave a sufficient fond for unexpected contingencies and a prudent liberality. 
There is hardly a day in any man's life in which a small sum of ready money 
nu^ not be employed to great advantage. 



THX FAMILT SATE-ALL : 



A Poultry Balance Sheet of JPrqfit and liOU t^n 
[757] Fowb and JJuchf, 



Dr. Fowls. 

March to June, 
Paid for eleven £ 8, d. 

Cochin - China 

fowls, (nine hens 

and two cocks) .280 
Paid for keep ... 1 17 1 



£4 5 1 
June to December, 
Balance fbrwsxdy 
(for which there 
remain seven fowls 
and thirty-seven 

chickens) 1 15 5 

Paid for keep ... 2 3 

£3 15 8 

January \st to June SOth, 

Balance forward, 
(for which there 
remain twenty- 
six fowls and 
chickens) .... 1 10 

Paid for ten sundry- 
fowls, (making 
with the previous 
twenty-six, a to- 
tal of thirty-six) 14 6 

Paid for twelve 

chicks 12 

Paid for eggs. ... 1 2 

Paid for keep and 

other expenses. .3 17 9 

£7 7 1 



Fowls. Cb. 

JMarch to June, 1854. 

£ 8, d. 

Four sold 1 

280 eggs sold ... 1 98 
Balance forward . . 1 15 5 



£4 5 1 
June to December, 
Eighteen chickens 

sold 1 8 6 

352 eggs sold ... 1 64 

Balance forward . . 1 10 



£3 15 8 

January let to June SOth, 

Twenty fowls sold .200 

Nineteen chickens 

ditto 2 

1014 eggs ditto ..349 

Balance to carry 
forward, (for 

which there re- 
main sixteen 
fbwls and foH^ 
three chickens of 
various sizes) . ; O 2* 4 



£7 7 1 



UTTALUABLE HINTS. 



217 



Bucks. 
JMktreh to JkoM, 

£ «. 

r<vr fborteon 
s and ten 
lings .... 1 19 
r keep • • . 11 



2 




£2 10 
Tune to Deoember, 
B forward, (for 
h there re- 


2 


twenty- 
ducks, and 
lings .... 15 
r keep ... 6 


10 

1 


£1 1 

an/ let to June SOtfi 
r three ducks, 
ng a total of 


11 


n 8 

r four duck- 





1 


6 


r eggs . . • 1 4 
r keep ... 1 3 



1 



£2 16 7 



Ducks. Gb« 

March to June* 

Five ducks sold . • 9 

367 eggs sdid . • . 1 5 4 

Balaooe forwwd • . lo 10 



£2 10 2 



Jame to Decembei*, 
Seventeen /sold • • • 1 5 9 
Deduet contra * • . 1 111 



Balance in hand,iind 

eight ducks ... 3 10 



J(muary \st to June SOth. 

Balance on last ac- 
count 3 10 

569 eggs sold ... 1 12 11 

Balance, (for whidi 
there remain 
1 1 ducks -and 45 
ducklings) .... O 19 10 

£2 16 7 



3AI.ZA0 was lying awake in bed, when he saw a man enter his room 
and attempt to pick the lock of his writing-desk. The rogue mis not 
concerted at hearing a loud laugh from the occupant of the apartment, 
apposed asleep. " Why do yoa laugh ?" asked the thief.>-" I am lau^iing. 
How," said M. de Balzac, ** to think what pains you are taking, and what 
tn, in hope of finding money by night in a desk where titie ItnM omer 
find any by day." The thief " evacuated Flanders" at once. 

omical Hints Respecting the Management of 

Poultry. 

I them plenty of Cayenne with their food ; it is 



218 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

useful before and during the whole of moulting-time ; 

--. and let them have the free use of salt during 

the whole year. They should likewise have access 

*^ to green food. Allow them also occasionally bacon 

rindSf and scraps of salt meat. 

759 Consider all bottoms of bottles, as lees of port wine, 
of elderberry, of all home-made wines, odd heel-taps of 
porter, ale, or spirit, as the perquisites of the poultry. 
A quarter of a pint of a compound made of such remains, 
diluted with water, may be occasionally mixed with the 
food of a dozen fowls. 

760 Poultry should also be allowed to peck bones, and 
any scraps of meat and bits of fat, and be allowed to drink 
any waste milk, to which a little meal may be added. 

A OBBTAiN 8ca-captain, who had considerable interest with his brother-ofBcers, 
and the cook aboard his yessel, were once to be tried for an offence against the laws of 
the navy, of sach a nature as put their lives in some jeopardy. The cook displayed every 
mark of fbar and apprehension for his safety. The captahi, on the contrary, seemed 
in very good spirits, and said,** Cheer up, man ; why should you be cast down? Hear 
nothing, and why should you?" — "Why. Mth^ your honour," replied the feUov, 
*'I should be as courac^us as you are if we were to be tried by a jury dT co<da.*' 

A Radical Cure for the Croup in Fowls and in 
Pheasants, even when the disease is very bad. 

Take one pennyworth of blue vitriol (sulphate of 
copper), and dissolve it in a tea-cup of hot water ; when 

--. . cold, put it into a bottle, and add one penny- 
worth of each of the three following ingredients : 

• spirits of hartshorn, spirits of lavender, and 

tincture of myrrh. To use it, take a drop on a wood 
skewer, and drop it into the nostril of the bird ; if a very 
bad case, a little may be dropped into the opening in 
the roof of the mouth. 

762 J/S' The pale colour of the yolks of eggs arises 
generally from a deficiency of green food. Let fowls have 
plenty of grass, or other green food, and the yolks of their 
eggs will become deep - coloured, and the fowls improve 
in health. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 219 

763 ^^ A dust-bath of sand, wood-ashes, and sulphur, 
in the poultiy-yard will prevent fowls from being infested 
with lice. The houses of the fowls should be white- 
washed with lime once a year. 

Wht are poultry the most profitable stock for a farmer? Because for every 
grain of com he bestows upon them, they give a peck. 

The best Season to commence IHg-keeping. 

The month of September is the best to commence Pig- 
keeping, The age at which a pig should be bought, is 
__. from three to four months. The gardens in Sep- 
tember ai*e full of refuse vegetables : and the 

764 

commons supply fern, which should be dried and 

ricked for litter during the winter. The gleaners have 
left the fields, and in many places, by paying a trifle, a 
pig may be allowed to run amongst the wheat-stubble, 
which will materially assist the progress of fattening, by 
laying a good foundation before commencing the stall 
feeding. Acorns and Beech-nuts fall soon after this time, 
and the pig or pigs may be driven to where they lie, or 
they may be picked up by children, and carried to the 

pigs. 

765 1^^ The best mode of Fattening Pigs is to com- 
bine roots, meal, and any milk-slops attainable. The 
value of roots for pig-feeding stand relatively thus : — 
Ist, Parsnips ; 2nd, Mangold ; 3rd, Swedes ; 4th, Carrots. 
The comparative value of meals thus : — 1st, Barley ; 2nd, 
Oats ; 3rd, Indian ^Corn ; in addition to the various 
dressings from Wheat, such as Pollard, &c. Some use 
damaged rice. These things should be mixed, the roots 
boiled, mixed with meal, and given warm. Feed three 
times a day. 

A GENTLEifAN discharged his coachman for overturning him in his carriage, on 
his road home from a dinner-party. The man, the next morning, craved pardon, 
by acknowledf^ing his &ult. **I had certainly drunk too much, sir," said he, 
"but I was not very drunk; and gentlemen, you know, sometimes get drunk." 
**Why," replied the master (the Hon. B. C, renowned for the smartness of his 
answers), " I don't aay you were very drunk for a gentleman^ but you were awfully 
drunk tor a coachman. So get about your business." 



220 THE FAIOLT SAYE-ALL : 

An Economical Food for SpoHmff, and other large 

Dogs. 

Indian Meal, mixed with potatoes and greaTes, is a 
cheaper and better food for dogs than greayes and dog- 

--. biscuits ; oatmeal, or bread raspings. They may 
be kept upon this iu first-rate condition at the 

'"" rate per head of sixpence a week. There is a 
foreign greave-cake, which may be procured of oilmen in 
many parts, which is very good ; it consists of the pressed 
meat of the buffalo, costs rather more than one penny 
per lb., and will keep perfectly good for years. 

A LBTTER was rccelved in directed " To ttie biggest fod fai .*» The post- 
master was absent, and on his return, one of the younger clerks informtd linn of 
the letter. " And what became of it ?^ inquired the postmaster. **■ Why,** replied 

the clerk, " I did not know who the biggest fool in was, so I opened the letter 

myself." <* And what did you find in it?" ** Why," responded the elerk, ** notMig 
but the woxds, * Thou art the man!'" 

Usefiil Employment of Soot, 

Peas may be preserved from destruction by Mice by 

sowing Soot with them ; and when the peas come np^ if 

__. . soot be sprinkled over them while they are damp, 

Sparrows will not touch them. Soot is also in- 

'"* valuable for 'Carnations and Tulips in any groimd 

where Wire-worms abound. It is not only a destroyer of 

insects, but a rich manure. 

A cHiiiinET-swEEPES*s boj went into a batar^ shop for a twopenny loai^ and eoi 
ceiving it to be dhninutive in size, remarked to the baker that he did not beUeve 
it was welGcht. " Never mind that," said tiie man of dongh, ** yon will hsie the 
lew to carry."—** True," replied the lad, and, throwing tbreehalQ)enc« on the counter, 
left the shop. The \is3aa called after him, saying that he had net left mooay^eneigb 
'* Nerer mind that,*' said young Sooty^ ** you will hare the less to count." 

The best Posture dwnng Sleep. 

Dr. Franklin recommends the limbs being placed 00 

as not to bear inconveniently hard upon one another ; as, 

. for instance, the joints of the ankles ; for thoi^Ii 

a bad position may at first give but little pain, 

*^ and be hardly noticed, yet a cefntinuance of it 

will render it less tolerable, and the imeasinesB may come 

012 dmm^ sleep, and may d\&toc:\> -tk^ imagination. In 

cold weather the arms s\ioTiiV^ \)^ Tsji^es ^^ OkafOasa, «s^ 



nrVALUABLB HINTS, 221 

above them in irarm ; and oare should be taken not to 
fold them round the head. It is imprudent to hide the 
head aknoBt entirely under the bed-clothes. We ought 
to sleep with our mouth shut ; as, besides other incon- 
veniences attending a oontrary practice, the teeth are 
liable to injurj from it ; for the air continually passing 
in and out between them, hurts, and by degrees renders 
them less firm in their sockets ; it also tends to consume, 
unnecessarily, the nK>isture of the mouth and throat, con- 
sequently they become too dry, -vdiic^ is always unpleasant, 
and in cold weather may occasion sore throats. 

** Kaioia,** wid a little feDow, whose mother had Ibrhttde him to draw horses and 
ships on the mahogany sideboard with a sharp nail, "mamma, this ain*t a nice 
house. At Sam Rai^ett^ we can cut the so&,.snd poll out the hair, and ride the 
shovel and tongs over the carpet; bat here we can't get any ran at all I'* 

To Cultivate Water Cresses in the Garden, 

j^BOUT the early part of March, procure a handful or 

two of healthy plants, rooted out of a brook. Prepare 

--. . two small beds of good loamy soil, and cut the 

plants iniio lengths of about three or four inches, 

^^^ preferring those pieces which have the appearance 

of a little white root attached, and plant them with a small 

dibble, nenly up to the tops, in rows about eight inches 

sapKrty fmd six inches between the plants, watering them 

well, and shading them with mats supported on sticks 

just above the plants for a few days. 

770 8^ Keep the beds damp by applying the water- 
ing-pot nearly every day. By the next month they will 
be 80 much grown that you may nip off the tops, and 
supply a good plate * every day in the week. 

771 1^^ When the tops are first gathered, the plants 
will tlm>w out side-shoots in abundance, and soon cover 
all the bed ; and during the spring and summer will 
produce so abundant a crop that there will be some 
dijBiculty in keeping them down by gathering. 



be ashamed of confessing your ignorance, for the wiae&t tc^as^ -<a:^Tk. «a^ 

is ignorant of many things, inasmuch that what lie lutfms \& xofix^ xysfCBim^L Vdl 
caapaiaon with what he does not know. There csoBOt \»« u ^sc^&Xax Vj^ *)^ ^^& 
rarUl than to suppoBe that we know everything. 



222 THE FAMILY 8AYE-ALL : 

To Cultivate the Cranberry. 

This agreeable fruit may easily be cultivated. It growB^ 

naturally in low boggy places, or on wet moors amongst 

... the bog moss. This moss rising gradually abov^ 

the level of the water, forms, as the lower partis 

' •* decay, a bed in which the Cranberry flourishesB 
and bears fruit abundantly. To cultivate it near home^ 
we must imitate the situation in which it grows wild. To 
accomplish this, fix upon a situation near to a supply of 
water, then dig out the common soil four inches, and fill 
up the place with bog-earth ; raise this peat six inches 
above the level ; then form a trench round the bed a foot 
or sixteen inches wide, puddling it at the side next the 
common soil and at the bottom with clay. Keep this 
trench full of water. Place the cranberry plants in the 
raised bed a foot apart every way ; they will soon run 
over the whole surface, and bear plenty of fruit. The 
water should be frequently changed, or it will become 
foul. Should there be a small lake, or even a 
large one, near at hand, an excellent cranberry bed mi^t 
be made near to the side. All that would be required 
would be to form a low fiat island with a peat earth 
surface, the cranberry plant put in at a proper distance, 
and kept clear from weeds. A small extent of space 
would yield a large supply of fruit. J£ the island were 
eight yards long and four feet wide, it would be quite 
large enough to supply a moderate family. 

773 8^ This fruit may be grown in a bed of peat 
one foot deep, sunk an inch or two below the general 
surface, and during dry weather to be flooded with water 
occasionally. Thus treated, they will fruit to a middling 
extent. The former method is, however, the best. The 
American berry, on the account of its size^ is the best 
for cultivation. 

The more quietly and peaceably ve get on, the better— the better for onradvei, 
the better fi>r onr neighbours. In nine cases oat of ten, the viseit ooorae is, if a 
man cheat you, to quit dealing with him ; if he be abusive, quit his company ; if 
lie slander you, take care to live so that nobody will believe him. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 223 

Asparagus Grown as an Underground Esculent 

Throughout Holland, no Chrem Asparagus is grown ; 

the heads and stems are white throughout, and are tender 

—.. - and of excellent flavour. The asparagus is never 

m allowed to appear above the surface of the ground ; 
a slight protuberance in the soil shows where the 
plant is rising, and by this index a practised eye knows 
when it is fit to cut. In proportion as the stem rises 
above the soil, it hardens, both above and beneath ; thus 
in England we get only Tialf the plant, while in Holland 
they utilise the whole. 

** I don't know him,** said a Glas^row magnate in speaking of a less prosperous 
citizen. ** I believe he is a good enough fellow in his way, bat he is not of the 
hong-kong,** This opnlent gentleman probably intended to use the words haaU Urn, 

To obtain Mushroom Spawn. 

It is often to be met with in manure-heaps, and in fields, 
particularly where hay-ricks have been made, and the old 

«-.. thatch and bottoms have been thrown up into a 
heap, to decay for manure. It smells just the 

' ' same as the mushroom. In heaps of manure that 
have been thrown out of an old cowshed, where horses and 
cows run for shelter ; and in the sweepings of horse-mill 
walks, thrown into a heap in some dry corner, and allowed 
to lie for three or four months undisturbed, plenty of 
mushroom spawn is likely to be generated. 

776 8^* I^ horse-droppings, mixed with sand and loam, 
in equal parts, and partly dry, is placed in boxes or large 
flower-pots, with a small bit of good spawn in it three inches 
below the surface, all jammed in as solid as it can be done, 
and put in any heated structure, the whole bulk. will very 
soon be found to be the best spawn, if kept dry for ^^q 
or six weeks. 

A ovMTLEKAN lately resident in Sunderland, at one time a strong advocate of 
teetotalism, now a bottle manufacturer not far off, was recently asked by an acquain- 
tance how he could reconcile liis former professions with his present practice. *' Oh,** 
was the reply, " when I started bottle-making, to be consistent I also began to 
drink beer." 



224 THE FAMILY SAYE-AIX : 

To prevent Sliigs from attacking Celery. Care 

against Frogs. 
-,. . Dust slacked lime liberally in and over 
each plant. This preventive will be attended bj 
*' unvarying success. 

778 S^ It is a good plan upon the approacli of 
Frost to cover Celery with loog, loose, dry litter. If 
snow falls before the covering of litter is laid on, no 
matter ; it is itself a warm covering, and the litter may 
be laid over the snow. 

Have you ever watched an icicle as it formed ? Yoa noticed how it froie ene irtf 
at a time. If the water was clean, the icicle remained clear, and sparkled in the nm; 
but if the water was but slightly muddy, the icicle looked foul, and its beauty was 
spoiled. Just so our characters are forming. One little thought or ieelijig at a 
time adds its influence. If erery thought be pure, the soul irill be loreiy, uA 
will sparkle with ht^piaess ; but if impure, there yriH alwqrs be wretohadDeaii 

A Method of Estimating the Weight and Growth 

of Live Pigs, 

A TAPE or string should be passed under the 1)68/ 

close to the fore-legs, and brought up over the shoulders in 

.a straight line. The circumference thus ascertainod 

is the gauge; thus, a pig measuring forty-eight 

' '^ inches as described, will weigh fourteen stones of 
fourteen pounds to the stone ; and every inch of incrtase in 
circumference will increase a stone in weight, supposing 
the pig to be in good condition, and of moderate size. A 
good pig when feeding should gain an inch per week, 
until he ceases to gain ; but he may cease for a week, 
and be making inward fat. 

He's a fool that grumbles at erery little mischance. Put the best *foot Ibnnffd* 
is 411 old and good maxim. Don't run about and tell aoquaintancM that you hsfabMli 
tmibrtonate; people do not like to have imfortnnate men for acquaintoncea. 

Which Pays Best, Park or Bacon? 

Fresh Pork is 4^«?. per pound, pays better than when 

just out of salt at the same price, because pork loses ui 

p.. . salt at least three-quarters of a pound for evegr 

stone of fourteen pounds, besides the cost of Iba 

salt. But BacoUf dried and sold at 7d, per poiin^ 



ZmrALUABLE HINTSL 226 

vill pay best of all, and will fetdi at least Id. per pound 
aore on the whole. 

^ WIDOW, whft had nut lost hear hittbaxid, waa wteping bitterly far the dear 
eparted. A friend tried to console her. " No, no,** said the feir mourner, "let me 
•^VB my cxjaati after tliat I dian't think anjrthing abocit it." 

What is the best Age for a Hog to be put up to 

Fatten, with a view to Profit 

Ail Tigz require to finish their growth, before they are 

—. . put np to fatten, as, if not full grown, growth 

arrests the fatting. The Suffolk pigs take nine 

' months to grow, and then they are fit to fatten. 

782 IS'' Their Vood should consist first of Peas, and 
k fimall quantity of Turnips. As soon as it is perceived 
ihat the hogs are getting fat, then peas only, and they should 
it this time be ground. They should be fed from five to 
\\jL times a day, having small quantities only at a time. 
rhe rule as to quantity is, one bushel of peas, or peas-meal, 
20 every sfone of pork, or six pecks of barley-meal. 

783 i@^ Barley-meal is an excellent fattening food ; 
ifftrmth, cleanliness, even to scrubbing with warm water 
vrecj week, and feeding four times a day at regular 
Intervals, are great aids to fattening. 

TtaB mh of a imall shopkeeper haring pot some candles In a cellar one day, his 
Bsther told him he thought it was too damp a place im them, and that they woiUd be 
tikely to mooia. '* Likely to mould!" repUed the lad ; "if that is the case we had 
better pat all our dips there, and perhaps they will turn to mould candles.** 

The Best Method of Curing Bacon. 
As soon as the Hog is quite cold, — the day after kilb'ng,— 
It should be cut into halves, and rubbed with a mixture 
of salt and saltpetre; twenty-eight pounds of 
aalt being required for a hog of ten score pounds, 
' mixed with an ounce of saltpetre, pounded, for 

every score pounds of pork. The sides should be laid 
upon a stone-floor, and for the first week turned daily, and 
some of the salt mixture rubbed in ; but for the second and 
thixd weeks the turning and rubbing need be repeated onl^ 
each second day ; «t the end of the three weeks it will be 
aufficieiitly salted. 



226 THE FAMILY SAVE- ALL : 

785 8^ If the bacon is not immediately required, the 
salted pieces should be put on edge in a bin, and salt put 
between them so that thej cannot touch, and salt shonld 
also be heaped over them, so as to exclude the air, and to 
keep the next tier of sides from touching them. If the 
sides are placed flat-ways they become too salt. They 
should be taken out for smoking (making into bacon) as 
required, and thus they quite escape that rustiness which 
will occur in bacon which is stored for any length of 
time. 

786 8^* To convert the Pork thus salted into BacoUy the 
sides must be taken out, the salt wiped from them, and 
they should then be hung by hooks fixed across the roof of 
a brick-built room, made so high that the lower end of the 
side of a hog is about eight feet from the floor. If nearer 
the floor, the heat would melt the fat. On the floor a 
little saw-dust should be lighted and kept smouldering 
constantly, day and night, for ten days, which is long 
enough for the side of a hog weighing ten score pounds* 
The door of the smoking room should be quite close, hut 
there must be a hole through the wall on a level with th^ 
floor to admit air enough for keeping the saw-dust burning, 
and the only escape for the smoke should be through the 
tiles, for it is the conflnement of the smoke about the pork 
which so soon baconizes it. 

787 1^* A most important point is the quality of the 
saw-dust; oak, elm, and birch are best. We ourselves 
prefer that of the oak ; and there are two other points not 
to be forgotten : — First, the saw-dust cannot be too old or 
too dry; and secondly, no fir, larch, deal, nor other saw- 
dust containing turpentine must be used, or it will spoil 
the bacon. 

788 1^" Bacon, Hams, and Fish may be smoked on » 
small scale, by driving the end out of an old puncheon) 
or large cask. Invert it over birch or juniper branches, on 
a heap of oak saw-dust, in which a bar of red-hot iron 



INVALUABLE HINTS, 227 

is plunged. Hang the Bacon^ Harris Tongues, or Fish on 
sticks fixed across the cask, and cover well to consume the 
smoke, allowing very little air to enter below. 

789 8^* Pyroligneous acid may be employed as a sub- 
stitute for smoke. The plan is to add two tablespoonsful 
of the acid to the pickle for a ham of lOlbs. or 121bs, ; 
and when, taken out of the pickle, previous to being hung 
up, it should be painted over with the acid by means of 
a brush. The same mode answers equally well with Tongues^ 
requiring a little more acid on account of the thickness 
of the integuments. Upon dried Salmon it answers ad- 
mirably; brushing it over once or twice has a better 
effect than two months' smoking in the usual way. 

Mbk often talk of tlie humbleness of their origin when they are really- ashamed 
of it, though vain of the talent that enabled them to emerge from it. 

A Scale of Proportions , Sfc, for Lovers of " Hbme^ 

BrewedJ*^ 

The following practical scale will be found of great 
—.. utility to persons brewing theu* own malt liquors. 
The quantities may be varied, but the scale will 
in all cases prove an unerring guide. 

Strong Ale. 



Quantity to be brewed • . . . 


50 gallons 


Water required .... 


94 „ 


Malt 


4 bushels 


Hops (if the beer is to be kept over twelve 




months) ..... 


4 lbs. 


Hops (if required for keeping over six 




months) 


3 „ 


Barm for working .... 


1 quart 


Heat of water for first mash 


170 degrees 


Heat for second mash 


180 „ 


Time for water to stay on each mash 


3 hours 


Time the beer must be boiled each time 


2i„ 


Quantity of beer to begin working 


5 gallons 




i2 



50 gallons 


85 „ 


3 bushels 


2*lb8. 


3 pints 


170 degrees 


180 „ 


3 hours 


2h „ 


2 „ 


5 gallons 


80 degrees 



228 THE FAMILY SATE-ALL : 

Proper heat to set beer to work . • 65 to 70 deg. 
Times for Breiving, October and March. 

Table Beer. 
Quantity to be brewed .... 

Water required 

Malt 

Hops 

Barm for working .... 

Heat of water for first mash 
Heat for second mash . ... 
Time for water to stay on first mash 

Ditto on second 

Ditto for boiling beer each time 
Quantity of beer to begin the working 
Proper heat to set beer to work • 
Times for Brewing^ when wanted. 

A GREAT toper, who had drunk nothing stronger than brandy all his lifb, caSei 
for a goblet of water on his death-bed, saying, ** When a man is dying, he (mgbt 
to moke it up with his enemies." 

Economy of Fuel in Heating Chens, 

In heating an oven, a much smaller amount of time 

and wood is consumed, if care is taken that every part 

-_. of the floor of the oven is, in its turn, kept gttite 

clear of wood and ashes : it should be kept as 

791 . 

• clean as it can be scraped. The heaped-up emr 

bers prevent the free circulation of hot air over the floor. 
Heated as suggested, the oven will yield loaves as crisp 
at the bottom as the top ; whereas if this precaution is 
neglected, you may have many loaves well baked in all 
parts except the bottom, which will be soft and tough, 
and to which every particle of ashes left on the flocff 
will have adhered. 

The reasoning power is the comer-stone of the intellectual building, giving graoB 
and strength to the whole structure. 

Another Method of Finding Wasps'* Nests, and 

Destroying the Wasps. 
Melt any quantity of Brimstone in a flower-saucer; 



XNYALUABLE HINTS. 229 

bave any kind of rags, sueh as bits of worsted stocking, 

... . flanDel, or carpet, four or five inches in length, 

and two inches wide, and dip them well in the 

meltedi brimstone. Make enongli of tiiese matdie^ 

W they will keep any length of time. 

793 1^" The next thing is to find the nests, which 
Oay be unfailingly done as follows :— Suppose the fruit 
Itey are attacking should be situated in a confined place 
>etween buildings, then take a portion of the fruit and 
>lace it in a convenient open space where you can command 
k dear view ; they will soon find it out $ take your stand 
tlose by, and wait till several fii^ts have been taken, 
tarefully marking their direction, and if they do not all 
^ Oine way, know for certainty there is more than one 
lest^ then, to find them, go in a straight line according 
& their line of flight, and it is an unerring rule to find 
hem. A close observer can pretty well determine the 
(istance of a nest in this way : first, suppose the ground 
ttdines downward in their ILne o£ flight, and from their 
tarting point they partake of this incUnation^-you may 
tonclude the nest is between you and the next rising 
pround. Secondly, if their inclination is the reverse of 
ins,, rest assured the nest is beyond the valley lying 
fecfrween you and the rising grocmd beyond. 

794 J^^ HaTjing found the nest, take one of the pre- 
lared brimstone matehes,^ a lighted lu^i-fer, and spade, 
ind, above all, the house bdfclows. Then, within a short 
bBtaace of the nest, light the match at one end,^ wait a 
iAtle till it is well lighted, l^en, place the lighted end at 
lie hole, and directly apply the belk)ws, blowing the 
Miming brimstone steadily into the nest, pushing the match 
^vward towards the hole as fast as it is being consumed, 
all the whole is blown into the nest. At the commence- 
ttt&ub of thia operation a dismal humming noise is heard, 
:>ut only for a few seconds, when all is hushed in death. 



230 THB FAHILT SAYE-ALL : 

No matter how strong the nests are, so much may all 
be accomplished in two minutes. This being done, dig 
out the nest, and, if not wanted for any purpose, smash 
it with the back of the spade, and the work is complete 
without a sting; for not one will escape to tell the tale. 
This had better be done after dark. 

An old bachelor says he is delighted at having nearly been called "hanej" bj 
the girl he loves, because she saluted him at their last meeting as old ''fiees-ma!* 

Liquid Glue. — Useful for various Household Repaxn, 

Take a wide-mouthed bottle, and dissolve in it eight 
ounces of best glue in half-a-pint of water, by setting 

--. , it in a vessel of water, and heating until dis- 
solved. Then add slowly two and a half ounces 

' of strong aqua fortis (nitric acid), stirring aD 

the while. Keep it well corked, and it will be ready 
for use at any moment. 

796 S^ This preparation does not gelatinise, nor 
undergo putrefaction nor fermentation. It is applicable 
for many domestic uses, such as mending china^ repairing 
cabinet work, &c. 

Recently, a clergyman, while announcing from his pulpit an appointmeot fat 
the ladies of his congregation to meet at the Orphan Asylum, on a benefldvy^ 
to the institution, closed the announcement with the following words: **Tlie ladiM 
will take with them their own refireshments, lo as not to eat iqp the ofplunk 

« 

Waterproof Leather Boots that toill resist the Several 

Weather. 

Takr half-a-pint of linseed oil, and half-a-pint of neaffl 

foot oil, and boil them together. When the boots to ^ 

__. waterproofed are dry, and free from dirt, rub 

them well with this mixture before the ^ 

• • until completely saturated ; set them by for two 

or three days, after oiling the first time ; and after using, 

wash them clean from dirt, and oil when dry ; or Hpwi 

the feet, before going out. 



INVAXUABLE HINTS. 231 

^8 8^ The bottoms of dress boots may be made 
jrvious to wet or snow, by the same mixture. 

Bey. Dr. M was reputed for the roavity of his manners and his especial 

less towards the fair sex. Handing a dish of honey to a lady, at a party 

house, he said, in his wonted manner, " Do take a little honey. Miss ; 'tis 

set, so like yourself" A Mr. Mudie, handing the butter-dish to the host, 
ned, **Do take a little butter, doctor; 'tis so like yourself.*' 

' Method of Destroying the Gooseberry Caterpillar. 

UT into a boiler as many bucketsful of water as you 
ire (one bucketful will do for twenty trees) ; add one 

. pound of soft soap, and one ounce of ground black 
pepper for each bucket. Let the water boil, and 
then put out the fire, and let it stand till cool, 
inch of twigs from the Birch, about twice the size of 
ordinary birch-rod, must be used to beat up the pre- 
tion, and to dash it over the bushes. If possible, every 
should get some ; to effect which, the Lancashire, or 
3t way, of training is most favourable. Once, perhaps, 
ve years they may require a second dressing, a fort- 
t or three weeks after the first. The time for applying 

generally about the middle of April. When the first 
f leaves are out, look carefully over the bushes, and 
will see here and there a leaf with a round hole in it, 

the size of a mustard seed to that of a split pea. On 
ing at the other side of the leaf, you will see the young 
l1, four or five in number, about the tenth of an inch 
, Choose a day for the work when it is likely to keep 
until the lather is dry. 

lamentable that we should go through the world so misunderstanding one 
r; letting slip golden opportuidties for glimpses into men's better nature, 
might have knit our hearts to theirs for ever in a brotherhood of lore, and 

the veil of charity over faults which, hi our blindness, seemed to us without 
le to balance them. Angels turn sorrowing away Arom this soul-blindness 
s, and fiends laugh over the final fkll of despair which oar helping hand 
at such moments have averted. Well for us all it is tliat He who is Himself 
t sin, more mercifiil than man, sees gatiiering tears in eyes that we deem 
md dry. 

Best Bait for Black Beetles and Cockroaches^ 
SJE teaspoonful of sugar 5 two of beer ; one ditto of 



232 THE I'AMILT 8AY£«ALL *. 

crumbs of bread ; mix these together, and pot it in 
„. . the ordinary trap, which should hav^ a fredi 

supply every night. 
oUU 

801 j^p* The jparings of cucumbers thrown about the 
floor will destroy them. 

It is a debatable point which is the more contemptilde conduct of the.tm),-flie 
man wlio venti his tMtr «a a defeooeless fenale, «r he who gives « /iront to bb 

laundress ! 

Method of Destroying Ants. 
These prolific creatures may be driven away from par- 
ticulai* haunts by sprinkling guano in their runs. They 
__. may be destroyed by pouring ammoniacal gas- 
water in their runs and nests. They may be 
exterminated in meadows by the following sunple 
method : — Cut off the hillocks with a sharp spade, leaving 
a little mould to form a basin ; then pour in strong 
ammoniacal gas liquor. Either of these plans will be 
found effective. 

Men are frequently like tea: the real strength and goodness are not properly 
dravm out of them till they have been a ^ort time i» hot tBoter, 

Effective Method of Destroying the Turnip Fly, 

Take road-dust, soot, and a small proportion of guano ; 
_. mix them together, and sow them along tbd 

rows in the middle of the day. In a short 

803 

" time the flies will disappear. 

804 %^ A little sulphur may be used instead of 
guano. Some prefer to apply it in the nighty when the 
ground is wet with dew. These remedies are invaluable. 

Thb following story is told of a Yankee captain and his mate: — ^Wheneyer tiio* 
was a plum-pudding made by the captain's orders all the plnxns were pot into 
one eoa of it, and that placed next the captain, who, after helping Trfmarff, paaei 
it to the mate, who never fbund any plums in any part of k. After this giBA 
had been played for some time, the mate prevailed on the steward to pJaoe tiiB 
snet-end next to the captain, who no sooner perceived the alteration ti*<^n , piddBf 
xqf the dish, and turning it round, as if to examine the china, he said, " Ihis cMt 
me two shillings in Liverpool," and put it down, as if without design, with the 
plum-end next to himself. " Is it possible ?" said the mate, taking up the dish. 
"I shouldn't suppose it was worth more than a shilling;" and, as if in perfect 
innocence, he put it down tlie contrary way. The captain hxAed at the nuits; 
the mate looked at the captain, and both laughed. "I'll tell you what, young'on," 
said the captain, " you've found me out ; so we'll just cut the pudding lengthvte 
wM tinie, and have the pbuns fairly distributed hereafter." 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 233 

Methods of Exterminating Insects and Worms Injurious 

to Farm Crops, Sfc, 

For the Wire-worm^ destroy the beetles by hand-picking. 

They will chiefly be found upon nettles, hemlock, fool's 

_,. - parsley, &c. The eggs are deposited in pastures, 

clover layers, and fallows* When they appear, 

^^ have the pastures eaten close by sheep. Give 

a top-dressing of quicklime two parts, soot three parts, 

salt two parts. Roll in early spring, after this dressing. 

806 8^ Or sow S^a broadcast. This is an excelleait 
remedy, and is effective also against the Chreen Fly, 
Encourage Frogs, Toads, Newts, Bohins, Blackbirds, 
Harushes, Fowls, Ducks, he, ; the latter especially should 
be turned into infested fields. 

807 8^ For the Turnip Fly, add to every twenty 
pounds of seed half-a-pint of Linseed Oil, taking care to 
have it well mixed ; add one pound of the flour of 
sulphur every morning ; have the whole rubbed between 
the hands, to get the seed in a proper state for driUing ; 
the drill-man must be apprised of what seed he has to use, 
otherwise he will not drill a sufficient quanti^, as the 
sulphur will choke the cups ; this, of course, must be 
looked to. 

808 8^ Or, pour a quart of Spirit of Turpentine on 
every six pounds of seed, rubbing it through the hands, 
and leaving it to dry, 

809 H^ Or, supposing the Fly to be developed, dust 
gas-lime over the crop, in proportion of half a barrel an 
acre, along the line of turnips. 

810 $^ For the Black Caterpillar, employ women with 
long twigs to dash the caterpillars from tJie plants, let them 
^en trample as many as they can with their feet ; let the 
women be followed by a man with a scuffler, set so as 
to cover the space between the plants. Twice or thi*ice 
going over will clear them. Where this cannot be done, 
Hand-Father them. 



234 THE FAMILY SAYE-ALL ; 

811 B^ Young Ducks will be the best for this worL 
Put water in the field for them, and let them be watched 
by a boy, 

812 ggy For the caterpillars of the White Turnip 
Butterfly\ and indeed all large caterpillars, no remedy 
surpasses Hand-pickingy and the aid of Ducks. 

813 B^ For the caterpillars of the Diamond^lach 
Moth, and Leaf' Mining Caterpillars dust with guicklim 
early in the morning, while the leaves are covered with 
dew. They drop to the ground by their silken thread 
when the plant is agitated, and therefore a bush-harrow 
should be sent over the land, immediately preceding the 
duster, to bring the insects to the ground, and in contact 
with the lime. The process should be repeated if 
necessary. 

814 Jfj^ Young Ducks will be found very useful ; hut 
when these are sent into fields of plants of which they are 
fond, they should be very young, indeed should not have 
lost their down. They will not then feed upon the phintB, 
but upon the caterpillars. 

815 1^^ For the Bean Fly, take a small portion of 
orpiment, mix it with equal parts of sulphur and asafoetida^ 
and wrap the whole well in a quantity of soft paper, made 
into touch-paper by being steeped in a solution of saltpetre^ 
proceed to the field, and place this all in a shovel ; get into 
the situation which will take the wind from you across the 
field ; hold the shovel close to the ground, and gradually 
move about until the whole field has had the benefit of the 
effluvia. 

816 8^ Or the soft parts of the beans upon which the 
flies congregate may be cut off by women. ' The growth 
of the beans will even be improved by this treatment, 
independently of the advantage of getting rid of the 
pe^t. 

817 t^ For the Green Fly, or Turnip Plant Louse^ 
fumigate as previously. Or the following is excellent fo( 



INVALUABLE HINTS, 235 

the Oreen Fly and the Turnip Fly. Take an old sack, 
and rip it open, nail it to a pole, the thickness of a pitching"* 
fork handle, leaving the pole about eight inches at each end 
longer than the sacking. Then have one side smeared 
with gas-tar, and let two men — one at each end of the pole 
—draw the sacking, the tarred side downwards, regularly 
over the field, letting it sweep the ground, carrying it at 
an angle of about forty-five degrees, fresh tarring with a 
brush every " bout," or oftener if required ; on examina- 
tion, you will find great numbers of flies sticking to the 
tarred sacking. Repeat the operation, once a day, for four 
days; once going over a field will not prevent the destruction 
of a crop ; it must be persevered in, according to the 
strength of the fly, and the state the land is in, but the 
remedy is certain, if persevered with. 

818 8^ For the Grubs and Worms that destroy Mangel 
Wurzel, the most effective remedy is sprinkling powdered 
quicklime in the drills, between the plants, and suffering 
it to be slacked by the natural action of the atmosphere. 
Fresh slacked lime, freely dug into the land previous 
to sowing, and the steeping of the seeds, as already 
described, will probably be also found useful in some cases ; 
and when the pest makes its appearance on the leaf, 
Fumigation may be resorted to with effect. 

Whxk Hoby was the great boot-maker in Georii^an times, a fussy little gentleman, 
who was not pleased, said to him with dignity, ** Mr. Hoby, I shall deal with you 
ao longer ; " the renowned fitter called out to one of his assistants, *' Tom, Tom 
pot up the shutters, for Mr. W. W. W. Jones has taken away his custom, and 
of course we am rumed." 

To prevent Foxes Running off with Poultry. — Hints 
about BadgerSy Hedgehogs^ MoleSy §•<?, 

As, for the love of sport, it is deemed dishonourable 
4x> trap, poison, or shoot Foxes, it may be well to make 

--. . known that the depredations of these marauders 
may to a great extent be prevented by surrounding 

"*^ the coops or pens of fowls with nets. Foxes have 
a gi*eat dread of nets, and will seldom return to premises 



286 THS FAMTLT SAYX-ALL : 

'^here they have found themselyes sligktly entangled in 
their meshes. 

820 B^ The nets should be fixed upon sticks^ not 
too finnlj driven in the ground, but hanging rather loeseij. 
A net hung against the Poultry-house door in the night 
is a good protection. 

821 US' Badgers are rather the friends th«n foes of tbe 
Farmer. Thej eat earth-worms, snails, and any kind pf 
worm, or insect they can lay hdid of. They should, thete- 
lore, rather be protected than exterminated. Hedgehog 
are equally useful ; and they destroy a very troublesoiBe 
weed, the plantain, beneath which they burraw. 

822 l^T The following ia an efficacious method of 
Killing Moles : — Take a quantity of fresh worms, put them in 
a wooden box, with a small quantity of carbonate of 
barytes in powder, and let them remain for an hour or two ; 
then find out the runs where the Moles leave the feaees 
for the land, lay in every run five or six worms, aad 
continue doing so as long as the wonns are taken amj 
by the Moles. 

823 1^^ It has been suggested that the increase of 
wire-worms has resulted from the indiscriminate destmctioa 
o£ Moles. Where the latter have been spared, the forisflr 
have been kept down. 

A BxoroK, desirous of being on good terms irith the Squire, neiver tMgM tfx) 
aerrice tUl his worsliip was seated. On (me occasion, by inadrertenee, he begin te 
read before the great man appeared^** When the wideed man,** Ite., upon wliieh th* 
clerk, surprised at this breach of good mannersy Jumped np and bawled oi^ 
♦* Please, sir, he's not come in yet" 

To JPrevent Ir^taries to Trees hy BoMnts.^-^B&st 
Method of Trappiioff them. 

Mix common cold-tar with equal portions of cow-dang 
and lime, and with a brush smear the stems to the height 
—.. of about thirty inches from the ground. The 
repetition of this treatment annually will efTec- 
^^ tually preserve the trees from their attacks. 
825 $^ The best mode of taking Rabbits is by mem» 



imrALUABLE HINTS. 2S7 

cf the trap. For this purpose, dig a pit in tiie ran most 
commonfy frequented, and have it oonsiderablj wider at 
the bottom than at ihe top ; across this lay a board, 
80 nieelj balanced upon a central pin, that the weight 
of the Rabbit is sufficient to bear it down at the extremity^ 
while, as soon as the weight is removed, the board wiU 
resume its former position. Numbers maj be taken hj 
this method. 

It Is told xA ^e oe3el)nited John Wilkes, that at some public meeting lie sat next 
to a -^non wlio, being displeased with the course matters were taking, kept ex- 
claiming, " I cannot allow this to go on ! I must take the sense of the meeting oft 
this poiuL"— Whereupon Wilkes whispered to him, " Do so, if you will ; 111 take the 
Bonaense of the meeting against yon, and can beat yoa." 

To JPreveivt tlie Depredations of Rats, g'c, in Corn 

Stacks, — JField Mice, Sfc. 

Take one pound of nitre, and one pound of alum ; 

dissolve them together in two quarts of spring water ; 

•Q- A. ^^ about a bushel of bran, and make a mash 

thereof, putting in two pints of the above liquid, 

and mixing all together. When you^ build 

your stacks, every second course, take a hand&l or two 

of the mash and throw upon them till they come to the 

easing. 

827 li^ For Field Mice, bore holes in the ground 
to the depth of twenty inches, letting the holes be wider 
at liie bottom than the top ; drop into these holes some 
&vonrite food, and ^mej may be captured in enormous 
numibers. 

828 $^ Or drop into their holes, and natural haunts^ 
pellets of the Fhosphorio PasU recommended £Dr destroying 
rate. 

Gracious hearts reflect most upon themselves : they do not seek so much what 
to reprove in others, as what to amend in themselves; they love to look inward, 
and bdng sensible of their own fJEiilings, are tender in reflecting on the weaknesses of 
olhetB ; wiwreas those that axe moat inqnlaitfye into the Uvoa of others are oaaaBy 
most careless in reforming their own. 

To Destroy Rats and Mice, 
Melt a pound of lard with a g^itibe heat in a bottUy 



288 THB FAMILY SAYE-AIX : 

or glass flask, plunged into hot water ; then add half va 

_.. . ounce of phosphorus, and one pint of proof 

spirit; cork the bottle securely, and as it cools 

^ shake it frequently, so as to mix the phosphorus 

uniformly with the lard. When cold, drain off the spirit^ 

which will serve another time, and thicken the mixture 

into a paste with flour. Put this paste on pieces of bread 

into the places infested with rats. 

830 B^ This is poisonous to Poultryy &c., and should 
be put out of their reach into the holes. 

831 B^ When handling Phosphorus, take care to keep 
it wet with water, that it may not ignite with the heat of 
the hand ; and guard against bits of it getting under the 
finger-nails. 

832 The Phosphor Paste may be purchased ready made 
at most chemists ; or they will prepare it to order. 

833 8^ Poisoned Wheat, now generally sold, is very 
effective for the destruction of Mice, and also SimJ& 
Birds,^ 

834 0^ A less dangerous method of getting rid oj 
rats is, to strew pounded potash in their holes. The 
potash gets into their coats, and irritates their skin, and 
the rats desert the place. 

835 S^ To prevent rats dying in their holes and 
becoming offensive, poison them by mixing half a pound of 
Carbonate of Bart/tesynih a quarter of a pound of lard. It 
produces great thirst, the rats leaves their holes to drink^ 
and are unable to return. 

: Ik the examination of an Irish case for assault and battery, coim8eI> on cni»> 
examining the witness, asked him what they had had at the first place they stopped? 
He answered, " Four glasses of ale."— " What next?"— "Two glasses of wine?- 
•• What next?"—" One glass of brandy."— " What next?"— "A fight, of coniae." 

Various Methods of Destroying Insects in Gardenia 

Hothouses, 8fc. 

To keep down almost every description of Insect 
injurious to the Gardener and Horticulturist, aa effective 



INYALtJABLE HINTS. 239 

plan is to employ Children in the summer-time to 'destroy 

-_. the Moths, The destruction of every female 

moth» before the deposition of eggs, may be 

fairly calculated to prevent the existence of some 

thousands of Larvas, and thus the races will be kept 

down. 

837 8^" The Bed Spider may he banished from HoU 
houses and Green-houses^ by the simple process of cutting 
off the infected leaf. A leaf once attacked soon decays 
and falls off; but then the animals remove to another. 
By carefully pursuing this amputation, plants will become 
remarkably healthy. 

838 1^^ jTAe Red Spider may also he destroyed by a 
wash of quick-lime, adding to it a quantity of sulphur 
vivum; with this wash, brush over the flues of the house; 
a fire rather stronger than usual should be kept up for a 
few days after the operation ; the fumes will be then 
so effectual, that scarcely any spiders will be found 
alive. 

839 1^* An excellent Method for Destroying %e Red 
Spider^ Scale, Thrips, and Green Fly, is the following : — 
Where there are but a few plants infested with either 
kind of insect, take a one-light frame and place the plants 
infested about four inches apart, and then procure from 
one to two gallons of green laurel leaves and well bruise 
them, immediately place them between the pots and close 
the frame with the least possible delay, taking care to 
keep the frame air-tight $ at the expiration of one hour 
take out the plants infested with red spider and green fiy^ 
and it will be found that the insects cease to exist. It 
will take from eight to twelve hours to destroy the thrips 
and scales ; at the expiration of that time take out the 
plants, place them in a warm and exposed situation, and 
in a few days the insects will all dry up and fall off. 

840 %^ When plants are infested in Stoves or Green* 
houses with either insect, the process must be a little 



240 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

varied. A house twelve feet by twenty will require 
about two bushels of leaves ; they caa be bruised in the 
house, and placed in a tub or box, and covered with a 
sack or cloth, until a sufficient quantity is bruised ; then 
they are to be strewed in the paths, and between tiie pots, 
and other vacant places, and the house must be kept as> 
close as possible for at least twelve hours ; the evening 
will be found the best time, so that the house can remain, 
closed and covered with double mats at night. 

B41 1^^ Aphides are easily killed by burning tobacco ia 
a chafing-dish, provided it is done while they are in a 
youDg state ; but it is expedient to have these remedies used 
before Hie plcmts can be injured by the attacks of insects. 

842 ^^g* The Scaly Insect, and Mealy JBug, when they 
are once perceptible to the eye, can be removed only by 
picking off, or washing tJie leaves and branches with a sponge, 

843 1^?" Insects in Wood and Walls may be Destroyed 
by washing those parts with a solution of corrosive sub- 
limate in water. But care must be taken that none falls <m 
the pla/fits ; and the workmen must be apprised of ihe 
strength of the poison. 

844 8^ The Mack Maggot on Thorns, Pears, and Cherry 
trees, and the Gooseberry Caterpillars may be destroyed by 
slacked lime in very fine powder, dusted over the leaves 
while they are wet or dewy. If rain follows immediately 
after the dusting, the good efi^ct will be diminished. 
Like all such remedies, t^e earlier it is applied, after the 
insect is discovered, the better ; and it should be done 
before the fruit changes colour, lest it be disfigured. Lime 
water, thrown by the garden engine, is also effective ; 
but it renders the trees and borders unsightly, 

845 1^^ A decoction of Elder-leaves mixed with Soap 
is also effective. 

846 $^ As a General Destroyer of Insects upon Trees, 
Gas Water is exceedingly effective. Mix a pound of 
flour of brimstone in three gallons of gas water, with soap 



INVALUABLK HINTS. 241 

ttatOQgli to make it adhere to the bad» and braoefaes when 
laid on with a painter's brush. The composition maj be 
nixed orer a fire with safety, as it is not inflammable^ 
-fte gas water being merely that which is employed at 
gas-works in the purification of gas. It does no injury to 
itbe trees, but kills the insects by its ofifensire odour. 

847 Its' American blight may he destroyed on trees by 
qjfplying train oil, with a painter's brush, to t^e infected 
parts of the tree. No mischief will result from the appli- 
cation of the oil to such parts of the tree only as are 
affected by the insects. In America the following remedy 
is suocessfyiy applied : — ^Before the sap leaves the root, 
take the earth from around the tree, at least for a foot 
and a half, and half a foot deep. Mix a quantity of 
coal soot with fresh rich mould, and fill up the hole again. 
Be careful to carry ofi^ the old earth, and to bum it, lest 
the insect should be generated in it by the heat of the 
sun. Tar, applied with a painter's brush, is also an 
efiectual remedy, and it operates, no doubt, in the same 
manner as the oil, by excluding the air, and involving 
the insects in a mass from which they cannot escape. 
It is probable that the efiect of the tar is more lasting 
than that of the oil, and that it would more completely 
destroy any young insects that might be produced from 
the latent eggs, a considerable time after their application. 
Tar, however, destroys the leaves and young shoots, but 
it does not afiect the wood. 

848 (^ In applying Lime for the Destruction of Snails^ 
begin by sprinkling quick-lime lightly over the beds ad- 
joining alleys and walks about ten o'clock at night, afler 
a wet or very dewy evening, and you will find a large 
number of snails, many of them exceedingly small, dead 
on the following morning ; but some always escape, and 
these are probably of another species, which do not leave 
their hiding-places so early in the evening as the others. 
Sprinkle the lime over the same beds and walks about 



242 THE FAMILT SAVE-ALL : 

tiiree o'clock in the morning ; and, bj these means, in 
a short time 70a will cease to be troubled with snails of 
any kind. The lime used should be fresh burnt, and 
should be sprinkled regularly though lightly, not only 
over the ground, but over every plant in the vicinity, 
849 iSr Slugs may he effectually destroyed hy lime-water^ 
which is superior to lime-dust. Take some fresh caustic 
lime, and pour on it some hot water ; when thoroughly 
dissolved, add water sufficient to make it pass through a 
fine rose of a water-pot. Previous to the preparation, 
let a woman take some peas haulm^ or any large leaves 
of the cabbage tribe, and lay them a pole distance from 
each other. If the weather permit, they will be found in 
abundance, collected under the haulm, &c., both for shelter 
and food ; as we always find them prefer vegetables in 
a state of stagnation, to those luxuriant in growth ; when 
properly collected, let a boy take up the haulm, &c., and, 
by a gentle shake, leave the whole of the slugs on. the 
ground. The woman with the water-pot must then pour 
a very small portion of the liquor on them, and the boy 
in the mean time must remove the haulm, &c., to a different 
spot in the immediate space. By pursuing this plan for 
one week (when the weather is favourable), the whole of 
them may be destroyed, as the least drop of the liquor wiU 
cause immediate death, whereas with lime they fi'equently 
leave a slimy matter behind, and escape. In the fiower- 
garden it will be found a great acquisition, by watering 
the edging of box, thrift, &c. ; for wherever it penetrates, 
it is certain to kill, even in a rainy season* 

Modern poets may well complain that all the similes hare been used up before 
their time. "White as snow," "white as a lily," "white as ttwry," are now general 
property; bat a Welsh poet, Davyth ap Owillyn, has an entire new image: he 
calls the maiden of his love ** white oi Umti" 

To Grow Melons in the Open Air. 

The Open-air Bed should be raised on the ground-level, 
on a base twenty-four feet in length, and eight and a half 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 243 

feet in width. The back should be of brick-work (against 

-J.. . a south wall or paling, therefore, would do), 

three feet three inches high. ; the ends should also 

Oka " 

be of brick-work, and slope from the above height, 
to the level of the ground at the front. The bed should 
be composed of weeds, bean-stalks, old tan, garden rubbish, 
and litter of anj kind, made compact ; and finally, about 
nine inches of only common garden soil, in which the 
melons are to be planted. When finished, it uniformly 
presents an inclined plane, facing the south or south- 
east. 

851 j^y The soil being raised a littk higher than the 
back to allow for sinking, the slope should form an angle 
with the ground-line of about twenty-three degrees. Nine 
plants raised singly in pots may be planted out in this 
slope, and, till somewhat established, they require to be 
protected by hand-glasses ; flat tiles should be then laid 
over the surface of the bed. The shoots or vines of the 
Melons need not be stopped nor thinned ; in short, with 
the exception of merely pegging them down, no inter- 
ference with their growth is required. 

852 1^^ Instead of Tiles being employed, as above, 
Slates were formerly used; but these became at times so 
heated by the sun, that the plants suffered from bein^ 
subjected to the vicissitudes of great heat in the day, 
alternately with the cold to which they were exposed at 
night. Tiles, on the contrary, do not absorb heat so 
rapidly, but retain it longer. 

853 1^^ The situation of the melon-bed need not be 
particularly sheltered. Near our own bed there is a hedge 
on the north side, at the distance of fifteen feet from the 
back of the bed, but it is not high. Two feet behind 
the hedge there are some tall elm-trees, and at some 
distance there is a row of trees, which afford shelter from 
the west winds. 

854 S^* The mode in which the plants are reared is 



244 THE VAinLT SAVE-ALL : 

an important point ; thej are raised with as little heat as 
posBible, and are alkywed plenty of air. 

855 1^^ When Melon Plants are raised for the purpose 
of being planted on a bed of the above description, the 
pots in which the seeds are sown should never be plunged 
in a warm dung or tan-bed; for^ when plants so treated 
are removed into the common ground, if the weather proves 
either cold or wet, their leaves turn yellow, and they 
afterwards become sickly, and continue so a long time. 

TfiUB cheeks of a lady in the autumn of life, and the leaves of the trees in the 
autumn of the year, often grow redder and redder; but nature lis not always in 
both cases the artist. 

Vegetable Marrowx, an Excellent Substitute for or 

Addition to a Crap of Potatoes. 

The early potatoes having been well taken care of during 

the winter, the Marrows may be sown about the first week 

--. in May, in the open ground, in a warm comer. 

When transplanting time comes, the early pot*- 

toes will not be nearly ripe; but a root of 

potatoes is to be lifted every six or eight feet apart, in 

every sixth or eighth alteniate row, and a Marrow to he 

inserted in its place. When thus planted, in moderately 

rich land, twenty tons* of Marrows may be grown to the 

acre; and when ripe, ^ they can be stowed away anywhere, 

and will keep good for a great length of time. 

857 1^^ The following is a capital way of Cooking 
Marrows: — Cut them into short pieces, take out all the 
pith and seeds, and boil them in plenty of water and salt. 
When well boiled, scrape out all the Marrow, put it 
between the two dishes, and squeeze out the water, then 
mash it well, adding salt, pepper, and a little butter. 
This is a capital dish. 

858 ^f In addition to their utility as a vegetable 
for the dinner table. Marrows form, when boiled, a most 
economical food for Fattening Pigs, 

" Do you think," asked Mrs. Pepper, rather sharply, " that a little temper Is a 
bad ihtag in a woman?" " Certainly not, ma*am," replied the gallant philosopher; 
*' it is a good thing, and she ought never to lose it." 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 245 

Number of Seeds in a given Quantity^ and the space 

cf Ground they will Sow, 

Ik garden operationB, it \b very desirable neither to 

— . . sow too liiickly nor too sparely. Of the two 

evils the latter is the least. The following rules 

as to quantity .and space, in connection with some 

of our principal vegetables, will be of great utility to 

tiie Amateur Gardener: — 

860 1^* One ounce of Parsley Seed has in it 16,200 
seeds; and a quarter of that quantity is enough for sowing 
a drill sixty yards long. 

861 |@" One ounce of Salmon Radish Seed contains 
1,960 seeds, and will sow, broadcast, a bed containing ten 
square yards. 

862 (^ One ounce of Onion Seed contains 7,600 seeds, 
and, sown broadcast, will suffice for fourteen square yards 
of ground ; but, if sown in drills, will be enough for twenty 
drills, each four yards long, or for about twenty-four 
square yards of ground. 

863 1^^ One pint of Sun-^x>loured Dwarf Kidney Beans 
contains 750 seeds, which are enough to sow four rows 
each seven yards long. 

864 1^^ One pint of Scarlet Runners contains 264 
seeds, and is enough for four rows each nine yards long. 

865 f^ One pint of Broad Windsor Beans has 170 
seeds, and is sufficient for seven rows, each four yards long. 

866 1^* One pint of Knighfs Dwarf Marrow Peas 
contains 1,720 seeds. One pint of Early Warwick Peas, 
2,160. One pint of Prussian Blue Peas, 1,860. One pint 
of Scimetar Peas, 1,299 ; and any one of these pints will 
sow eight rows, each four yards long, as the larger peas 
require to be sown wider apart in the rows than the 
smaller-seeded peas. 

867 I^S" One ounce of Carrot seed or Parsnip seed, sown, 
broadcast, will be sufficient for a bed containing sixteen 



246 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

square jords, and for one containing twentj-eight square 
yards, if sown in drills. 

868 B^* One ounce of anj kind of Cabbage or BrocoU 
seed will be enough for a bed containing nine square yards, 
if sown broadcast, or for sixteen square yards in drills. 

869 8^ To prevent Cabbages from running to long 
woody stalks, take a pen-knife and stab through the 
stalks of those that exhibit a tendency to shankiness; 
make the stab through the stalk about the middle ; insert 
a small piece of wood to keep the incision open, and this 
will check the growth. By this simple plan, a good cabbage 
head may be secured on every stalk. 

870 Jj^ All flat seeds, as Broad Beans ^ should be sown 
side'Wat/s, for if laid flat on the soil they are apt to rot, 
and, even if this mishap does not befal them, they never 
germinate so readily as those placed sideways. This 
accounts for so many failures amongst Churds, Melons, 
CucumherSf &c. 

The Spbzadino of a KEPORT.—The servant at No. 1 told the aervant at No. 3 that 
her master expected his old friends the BaplejfM to pay him a visit at Christmas ; and 
Ko. 2 told No. 3 tli&t No. 1 expected the Bailies in ttie house every day ; and No. 3 
told No. 4 that it was all np with No. 1, for they couldn't keep the bailifft oat; 
whereupon No. 4 told No. 5 that the officers were after No. 1, and that it was as 
much as he could do to prevent himself from being taken in execution, and that it 
was killing his poor dear wife. .And so ft went on increasing, until it got to No. 33, 
where it was reported that the detective police had taken up the gentleman who 
lived at No. 1, for killing his poor dear wife with arsenic, and it was confidently 
hoped and expected that he would be executed, as the facts of the case were rery 
dear against him. 

A New Method of Propagating Potatoes^ 

Take ofl^ all the stems which arise from a cut of the 
potatoes except one, and plant them in drills, two feet 

-.. . apart, and one foot in the drill between the plants. 
The planted Stems will produce an excellent yield 
' of good sound potatoes. The potatoes from which 
the oflsets are taken, having been left with but one stalk 
to each, will produce abundantly large and marketable 
potatoes. A perch of twenty-one feet has been found to 
yield eight stone of large sound potatoes upon this system. 

872 1^^ Diseased Potatoes may be preserved for many 



mVALUABLE HINTS. 247 

months for Pigs in the following way: — ^Boil the small 
or other diseased potatoes, and then beat them down into 
large casks, strewing salt over them, as they arc beaten in. 
Keep them carefully from the air, and in a dry cool situation. 

Omb would never gaess the device adopted by one of the London dandies of ripe 
age to delude his acquaintances into the supposition tliat his luxuriant wig is the 
natural product of his own head. The secret has been betrayed by a treacherous 
barber. The gentleman, it seems, caused to be manufactured as many wigs as there 
are days in the month, each wig being provided with a box and a number. Every 
morning he puts on a peruke slightly differing fl-om the others. Thus, the hair of 
number four is a trifle longer than that of number three, and so on to numbers thirty 
and thirty-one, which look as though they needed cutting. Upon reaching the last 
day of the month, our ingenious beau visits his dub, runs his fingers through his 
wig, and says, in a careless tone, " My hair is growing much too long; I must have 
it cutl" And the next morning he dons number one again. 

The Economy of Pig Manure and Coal Ashes, 

Have a large dry shed, in which put a layer of Coal 

Ashes, about a foot thick, and four feet wide. Take the 

. excrement of the Pigs, both liquid and solid, and 

throw it upon the ashes. As soon as the ashes 

* are saturated, add more, and commence a fresh 

layer. After it has lain for some time, let it be turned and 

mixed two or three times, and it will be fit for drilling. 

874 1^^ The droppings of three Pigs, preserved with 
ashes in this way, will be ample for two acres of Turnips, 
and quite equal to three sacks of bone-dust per acre. If 
we can get such valuable manure for nothing but the 
labour, it is better than paying money for artificial 
composts. 

875 8^ Pig Manure is also one of the best for Kitchen 
Garden crops. 

876 8^ To kill Vermin infesting Pigs, rub them with 
grease, or olive oil. These greasy applications are very 
beneficial to the Pig's health; and if, after two or 
three greasings they are well washed, they will improve 
wonderfully. 

Ko young man really believes he shall ever die. There is a feeling of eternity is. 
youfih which makes us amends for everything. Death, old age, are words without 
« meaning— a dream, a fiction. To be young is to be as one of the immortals. 

Coal Ashes Useful for Making Garden Walks,. 
To three bushels of Goal Ashes, not sifted very fine, 



248 THE FAMILY SAT E-AI.L : 

add one bushel of fine gravel. Add water to these, and 
_. . mix them until they become about as soil as 

mortar. Spread over the walks, the siir&ce 

877 

of which shoald previously be slightly broken, 

and raked smooth. Make the mortar-like mixture smooth 
and even by spreading it with a piece of board. It will 
become hard in a few days. 

T&XBE ore a good many people in the world vho spend half titeir tiineia tUnkiiiK 
what they vxmld do if they were rich, aad the other half in eoi:\)ectariB|p intet 
they tihatt do as tiiey are not. 

Value of Soot as a Manure, 

Thebe are few manures more efficacious than Soot] 

and as it is in the power of every one to obtain it without 

-,. expense, few gardens should be without it. Its 

value may soon be ascertained by the following 

°'° experiment: — Spread it round Cauliflower plants, 

about a foot in diameter, and from a quarter to half an inch 

in depth. The plants treated in this manner will be 

ready to gather two or three weeks sooner than the others 

on the same piece of ground. The soot will not only 

act as a powerful fertilizer, but will prevent the attacks of 

Slugs, 

879 1^^ As every chimney in which a fire is constantly 
kept, requires sweeping at .least every four months, the 
sweepings for one chimney being sufficient to spread 
round six dozen plants, it follows that in a year's time 
sufficient Soot may be gathered from a single chimney to 
treat two hundred and sixteen plants, in the manner 
described. 

880 8^ Soot'Water is an excellent manure for Celery;, 
and where worms and insects are troublesome, a little Dry 
Soot dashed along the rows will prevent their ravages. 

A TOUKQ lady should often maintam a pmdent reserve and silence in the presence 
of her lover ; he will be certain to &ncy her a great deal wiser than she can shew 
herself by her talk. 

To Prepare the Feathers of Geese y Fowls , 8fc,, for 

Domestic Farpofies, 
Tasb §ov ererj galkm of ciean water one pound of 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 249 

qaicklime, mix them well togeth^, and when the undissolved 

-J. . . lime is precipitated in fine powder, pour off the clean 

lime-water for use. Put the Feathers to be cleaned 
001 

in another tub, and add to them a quantity of 
the clean lime-water, suflicient to cover them about three 
inches when well immersed and stirred about therein. 
Hie feathers, when thoroughly moistened, will sink down, 
and should remain in the lime-water thi*ee or four days ; 
after which, the foul liquor should be separated from them, 
by laying them in a sieve. They should be afterwards 
well washed in clean water, and dried upon nets, the 
meshes of which may be about the fineness of cabbage-nets. 
The feathers must be, from time to time, shaken on the 
nets, and as they get dry, will fall through the meshes, 
and are to be collected for use. The admission of air will 
be serviceable in drying. 

882 (^ The process will be completed in three weeks ; 
and, after being thus prepared, the feathers will only 
require to be beaten to get rid of the dust. 

A Cuban physician having been robbed to a serious extent in his tobacco-works, 
discovered the thief by the following ingenious artifice. Having called his negro 
slaves together, he addressed them thus :— " My friends, the Great Spirit appeared 
to me during llie night, and told me that the person who stole my money idiould, 
at this instant— tAis very tmton/— have a parrot's feather at the point of his nose." 
On this announcement, tiie thief, anxious to find out if his guilt had declared itself, 
put his finger to his nose. "Man," cried the master instantly, "'tis thou who haat 
robbed me. The Great Spirit has just told me so." 

Excellent and Economical Fruit Jam, made Witho'ict 

Sugar, 

It is not generally known, that boiling fruit a long 

time, and shimming it well, without the sugar, and without a 

-_. . cover to the preserving-pan, is a very economical 

and excellent way — economical, because the bulk 

QQQ •' ' 

of the scum rises from the fruit, and not from the 
sugar, if the latter is good ; and boiling it without a cover^ 
allows the evaporation of all the watery particles therefrom ; 
the preserves keep firm, and well flavoured. The proportions 
are, three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit* 



250 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

884 1^^ Jam made in this way, o{ Blackberries, Currcmk, 
Strawberries, Raspberries, or Gooseberries is excellent. 

A voTHER and daughter both became inmates of a lunatic hospital in America, 
at diSSerent dates, and were placed in the same storey of the building, where ttiey 
had access to the same hall. They met, and recognised each other, though one had 
left the other years ago in Ireland. They had each crossed the ocean, become 
residents in New York, and lost all knowledge of the other's history or &te ; both 
became bereft of reason, and in a madhouse, surrounded by those who were hopdeasly 
insane, the child and parent met ; though reason \ras dethroned, and they were 
there with minds diseased, yet nature triumphed over the clouded intellect, and for 
a brief moment they conversed on the land of their birth, and on their separation. 
Bo let it be mth those who part in the frenzy of anger: when they meet, let them 
recognise each other as in the days of their friendship, and the madness of enmity 
reign no more. 

Usefulness of Decayed Leaves, 

Decayed Leaves make the best of soils for Fotting plants; 

properly prepared they also make the best of manures for 

--. . the Flower Bed or Border, and for the Vegetable 

Garden, more especiaUy for manure for early 

Potatoes ; they are also valuable as a fermenting 

leaven, of which to form Hot-beds. In this respect they 

are better than tanner's bark, horse-dung, or any other 

substance whatever. 

886 1^^ If wanted to make Hot-Beds with, lay them 
on a heap in the shape of a roof of a house. This will 
prevent them from becoming too wet, even in the wettest 
weather. Turn them over with a fork every three or 
four weeks. If they are very dry, throw a few buckets 
of water upon them, as you are turning them. You may 
also mix any newly-gathered leaves amongst those first 
collected. By this method duly carried on, the leaves 
will be well prepared to make a hot-bed of lasting 
temperature, yet moderate heat. 

887 ^^ Should the leaves not be required for the 
purpose of yielding heat, let them be spread as fast as 
they are gathered, in some convenient place, and all the 
Slops of the house, and the Refuse of the Kitchen, as well 
as any liquid manure, be poured upon them. If a little 
Gypsum is procurable, it would be useful to cast it thinly 
over the heap from time to time. Road Scrapings, also 



mVALUABLE HINTS. 251 

may be used to spread upon this heap of riches, for so, 
indeed, it truly is. 

888 8^ Plenty of the foregoing mixture laid upon, 
and immediately dug into, the ground, will increase the 
following crops tenfold, 

889 1^^ Some part of the leaves may be wanted for 
Potting purposes. Lay a heap apart, turn it more frequently, 
beating and chopping the leaves with a spade or fork, 
and lay this heap flat, in order to receive all the rains 
that fall, for they will materially assist decomposition. 

890 1^^ Avoid all mixtures with leaves for making 
vegetable mould, intended ultimately, when rotted suffi- 
ciently to pass through a sieve, to mix with pure loam 
or peat earth, to be used for the more delicate plants, 
such, for instance, as Auriculas and Carnations. Lime, 
coarse sand, or road scrapings, would render the vegetable 
mould not so desirable foi* these finer-rooted and more 
valuable plants. 

Geobge the Second, being informed that an impndent printer was to be punished 
for having published a spurious (Idng's) speech, replied that he hoped the pun- 
idunent would be of the mildest sort, because he had read both, and as far as 
he understood either of them, he liked the spurious speech better than his own. 

• 

Over^stock of Fowls. — Hints about Eggs, 

When it is found necessary to reduce the number of 

JFbwlSy the proper plan is, to first kill all superfluous Cocks 

--. . for the table. Some persons advise killing the 

Hens, but this should not be done, if they are good 

layers^ because those hens that begin by laying 

well, generally continue to do so, and being strong, and 

accustomed to the cold of winter, they are more likely to 

be healthy, and to lay well in the cold season, than 

Pullets, 

892 1^^ The best plan is, to notice the Pullets when 
they begin to lay, and to select for killing those that do 
not lay well. By the month of February, the stock should 
be reduced to a number small in proportion to the placQ 



252 THE FAJflLT SATX-ALL : 

where thej run, allowing not mcx'e than six or eight hem 
to each cock. 

^3 1^" Aboat this time begin to preseTve Egg* for 
Hatching. Notice those which are laid bj* the best hens, 
and let them be put aside with care ; place them on end 
in a box of bran, with the broad end downwards. They 
should not have been laid more than a &)rtnight when they 
are put under the hen. 

894 ^^ The Fecundity of Egga cannot be determined 
otherwise than in the following manner: — ^At the end of 
about three days after setting them, they maj be held to 
a hole in a door or shatter, against the sunshine, and 
those which are unproductive will look clear, while 
those whiq)! have been fertilised will show a darkness in 
one spot, and a net-work of veins forming over the insids 
of the shell. 

The following notice appeared on the wall of a meeting-hoase : — **Anfbo8f 
sticking bills against this church, will be prosecuted according to la.w or any ottu* 



nuisance." 



An Excellent Yeasty easily made by Persons who 
Reside far from a Brewery, — Parsnip Beer. 

Take a pound of flour, mix it with a pint of cold water. 

Boil one ounce of hops in three pints of cold water for 

--.. , twenty minutes ; strain the hops over the flour, 

and let it stand until it is milk-warm. Then add 

the " onset," and set it by the fire all night, and 

it will be ready for use in the morning. The "onset** is 

a pint of the same mixture, kept from the last baking ; it 

will keep more than a week, or may be used sooner. 

896 Ig^ At the first making, Brewer's Yeast must be 
used for the "onset." 

897 %^ An excellent Beer maybe brewed jfrom Parsnips 
by using one gallon of parsnips to every four gallons of 
water. The parsnips must not be scraped nor peeled, but 
be taken fresh from the ground, well washed, boiled to a 



pnlp, i^ kops .added mkd binled, -and thea the wbale 
stcained, tmoM, ^and wdrtkod "vrlth ^eaat. 

"Wte laidm that men -nslwally 'Shriidt fnm the ftttonpt to obiaiii companions who 
•re thdr superion; but they lidll find that really intelligent women, who possess the 
moot dedrsUe qnalttfes, ava naifonnly modest, and hold their charms in hnmblo 
estimation. Don't imagine ttiat any disappointment in love which takes place before 
yon are tweaty-one years old will be of any material damage to you. Hie truth is, ' 
that beft^ a man is twen^y-fiy^ years old he does not himself know what he wants. 
Ibe more of a man yon become, and the more manliness you becmne capable of 
exhibiting in your association with woman, the better wife you will be able to obtain ; 
and one year's possession of the heart and hand of a really noble woman is wortli 
nine himdred^ and ninety-nhie years' possession of a sweet creature with two i^as 
In her head, and nothfaig new to say about either of them. 

A Family Medicine Chest of Homely Drugs, 

Thbbe are few things so serviceable for a Cold, as Sage^ 

the oommon liierh. Of l^is a tea should be made thus :— -* 

. Put a handM of sage leaves iuto a teapot, pour 

boiling water on it, and let it stand close by the 

. **"'* j&re for half an hour. Drink a tea-cupfv4i Bepeat 

the dose for a night or two, and your cold will most likely 

have disappeared. In order to make the sage tea more 

palatable, a few leaves of lemon thyme may be added. 

899 $^ Pmrnj-roysiX is also a most useful herb, and 
should be used in the same way. 

900 1^^ Ground Ivy is most valuable for Coughs and 
Delicate Lungs. It is found in almost every hedge, and 
must be steeped in boiliag wa^r, and then allowed to get 
cold. It should be drunk the first thing in the mornings 
and if thickened with a little honey, may be sipped, 
with much benefit, during the day, when the cough is 
troublesome. 

■901 8^ Halfia-pint of BaaeWatery and two tea-spoons- 
fill of White Vinegar, make an excellent lotion for Pains 
m i^e Head and Face. 

902 Q^ A very efiELeacioufi remedy for the Cough of a 
Child, is to slice a common Titmip rather thin, and to 
•prinMe brown sugar over it ; let it stand for a few hours 
with a saucer pressed down on it, and the syrup which 
runs from it will be feund very soothing to l&e chest, if 
tipped £re<|tte(D(%. 



254 THE VIAXTLY SAYE-ALL : 

903 1^^ To those who give medicines to the poor, the 
following receipt will be found useful, particularlj for old 
people. One table-spoonful of honey, one of vinegar ; let 
it stand by the fire till it is well mixed, then add sixiy drop& 
of ipecacuanha wine, and twenty drops of laudanum ; take 
a tea-spoonful night and morning, or oftener if the Cough 
is veiy troublesome. 

904 1^^ How often in the case of accidents by fire is 
time lost, by the neighbours not knowing how to act, and 
waiting till the medical man arrives. If it is remembered 
that the very best thing to be done when any one has 
received a burn or a scald is, to lay on the part that is 
injured, a thick coating of Cotton Wool or wadding, so as 
to completely exclude the air, much future pain is avoided* 
If wool happens to be not at hand, scraped Potatoe^ Turnip^ 
&c., will ease the pain. 

905 1^^ A capital domestic remedy for a severe Cut 
will be found in the leaves of a common White Lily ; they 
should be steeped in brandy for some weeks, and be kept 
ready for use. A leaf should be bound tightly round the 
wound. 

906 1^^ For the Ear-achCy toast an Onion thoroughly, 
take the heart out, put it into a piece of fiannel, and insert 
it into the ear, having previously put a few drops of hot 
water into the ear. 

Bad Sprains or Bruises are much eased by fomentations, 
either of Poppy-heads or Camomile boiled in water, or plain 
water alone, only taking care that it is as hot as the 
hand can bear. 

907 1^* The White of an Egg into which a piece ofAlun^ 
about the size of a walnut has been stirred until it forms a 
thick jelly, is a capital remedy for Sprains. It should be 
laid over the sprain upon a piece of lint, and be changed as 
often as it becomes hot or dry. 

908 1^^ A lump of fresh Quick-limey the size of a 
walnut, dropped into a pint of water, and allowed to stand 



INYALUABLE HINTS. 255 

all night, the water being then poured off from the sediment, 
and mixed with a quarter of a pint of the best vinegar, 
forms the best wash for scurf in the head. It is to be 
applied to the roots of the hair. 

A GOOD Story is told of Bouvart, a celebrated French physidan. On entering, one 
mominiDf, the chamber of a marquis, whom he had attended tlirongh a very dangerous 
illness, he was accosted by his noble patient in the following terms :— " Good day to yoa, 
Mr. Bouvart ; I feel quite in spirits ; I think my feyer has left me."—" I am sure 
It has," replied Bouvart, drily. " The very first expression you used, convinces me 
of it."—" Pray explain yourself."—" Nothing is easier. In the first days of your 
illness, when your life was in danger, I was your dearest /fiend; as you began to get 
better, I was your good Bouvart; and now I am Mr. Boavart. Depend upon it, you are 
quite recovered." 

Variotis Methods of Cleaning Woollen and other 

Cloths. 

Thk art of Cleaning Cloths^ without injuring the colours, 

supposes — ^First, a knowledge of the various substances 

_-. , that can occasion spots upon them. Secondly, 

that of the substances to which we must have 

recourse to remove those stains when deposited 

upon the cloth. Thirdly, that of the manner in which 

the colours will be affected by the re-agents meant to be 

employed for the removal of the spots. Fourthly, that 

of the manner in which the cloth itself will be affected 

by the re-agents. Fifthly, how to restore the colours when 

changed, or rendered faint. Wanting some knowledge on 

these points, it is evident that no person can undertake to 

clean cloth under all circumstances without great danger 

of spoiling the article. 

910 1^* Of the substances which occasion spots upon 
cloth some are easily known by their appearance; for 
instance, Crrease of every kind. Others produce more 
complicated effects, such as Acids, Alkalies, JPerspiratioUy 
Fruits, Wine, &c. 

911 1^^ The effects of Acids upon blacks, purples, 
blues (except those produced by indigo or Prussian blue), 
and some other colours), and upon all those shades of 
colours which are produced by means of iron, archil, and 
astringent substances, is to turn them red. They render 



256 THE f AMILT 6AYE-ALL : 

yellows more pale, except those produced by annatto^ "wiuck 
they turn to an orange colour. 

912 t^ Alkalies turn scarlets, and all reds produced 
by Brazil or logwood, to a violet colour ; they turn gre^ 
(upon woollen cloths) to yellow, and they giye a reddish 
cast to the yellow produced by annatto. The effect of the 
perspiration is the same as that of the alkalies. 

913 1^ Spots made upon cloths by simple substances 
are easily removed by well-known means. For instance, 
greasy substances are removed by Alkalies, by Soap, hy 
Tolk of Eggs, or by Fat Earths ; Oxide of Iron, by Nitric 
or Oxalic Acid, Spots occasioned by Acids are removed by 
Alkalies, and vice versd. 

914 J/S* Spots caused by Frmt upon white cloth are 
removed by sulphureovs acid (vitriol), or what is still better, 
by Oxygenated Muriatic Acid: 

915 H^ But when the spots are of a complicated 
nature, various means must be employed successively ; thue^ 
to remove .a spot occasioned by the corm of carriage 
wheels, we must first dissolve the alkali by some of the 
means above mentioned, and then take aw^ the oxide of 
iron by oxalic acid. 

916 It^gr The colours of cloths are often injured 
by the re^agents made use of in order to restore them 
effectively; when such is the case we must thoroughly 
understand the art of dyeing, and know how to modify 
the means according to circumstances. This is sometimes 
dijficult, because it is necessary to produce a colour similar 
to that of the rest of the cloth, and to apply that colour 
to a particular part only; sometimes also the mordant 
which fixed the colour, or the basis which heightened iV 
has also been.destroyed, and must be restored. It is .evident 
that >in this case the means to be employed depend jx^wbl 
^be nature of the colour, and that of the ingve^ents whid^ 
produce it, for tiie same colour may be and often is 'Obtsinfid^ 
&am 'difSatent substances. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 257 

917 1^^ Thus, when after using an alkali to remove 
an acid spot upon brown, violet, or blue cloth, &c., there 
remains a yellow spot, the original colour is again produced 
1^ nieans of a Solution of Tm, A solution of the Sulphate 
of Iron restores the colour to those brown cloths which 
Ittve been dyed with galls. Acids give to yellow cloths 
which have been rendered dull or brown by AlkaMen^ their 
ca:i^inal brightness. 

918 1^^ When black cloths dyed with Logwood have 
any reddish spots occasicmed by acids, alkalies turn such 
t^ts to a yellow colour, and a little of the astringent 
principle makes them black again. 

919 $^r A solution of one part of Indigo in four parts 
of Sulphuric Acid, properly diluted with water, may be 
successfully employed to restore a faded blue colour upon 
wool or cotton. 

920 S^ Bed or scarlet colours may be restored by 
means of Cochinecd, and a s<!^mtion of Muriate of Tin, &c. 

921 fl^* The choice of re-agents is net a matter of 
indifference; vegetable acid is generally preferable to 
mineral ones. The sulphureous acid, however, may be 
used for spots from fruit ; it does not injure blue upon silk, 
or the colours produced by astringents ; nor does it affect 
yellow upon cotton. The volatile alkalies succeed better 
than fixed alkalies in removing spots produced by acids. 
They are usually made use of in the form of vapour, and 
act quickly, seldom injuring the colour of the cloth. 

922 1^^ The means of removing spots of Grease are 
well known, namely, Alkalies^ Fuller' s-earth, Essential Oils 
dissolved in alcohol, a fmfficient degree of heat to render 
Ihe grease volatile, &c. 

^8 ^^g' Spots of Inky or any other occasioned by yeUow 
aside of iron, may be removed by Oxalic Add* The colour 
may be restored by alkalies, or by a soluftkm of the muriate 
of tin. Such spots may also be taken away by oxygenated 
muriatic acid, when they are^ upon white clothi or ipaa 

K 



258 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL 

paper. The effect of alkalies, and that of perspiration 
being the same, their spots may be removed by acids, 
or even by a diluted soultion of muriate of tin. 

924 1^^ When the spots are owing to various unknown 
causes, we must have recourse to compositions possessing 
various powers, of which the following may be considered 
as one of the most efficacious : — ^Dissolve some white soap 
in alcohol, mix with this solution four or five yolks of 
eggs ; add, gradually, some spirits of turpentine, and then 
stir with the mixture such a quantity of Fuller's earth as 
will enable you to form it into balls. The manner of using 
these balls is to rub the spots with them, having previously 
wetted the place with soft water, after which the cloth 
is to be well rubbed and washed. By this means all kinds 
of spots, except those occasioned by ink or any other 
solution of iron, may be removed. 

^^^ ^^ The washing of cloth takes off the gloss and 
leaves a dull spot disagreeable to the eye. This Gloss may 
be Restored by passing in a proper direction over the washed 
part of the cloth a brush wetted with water, in which a 
small quantity of gum is dissolved, and then laying upon 
the part a sheet of paper, a piece of cloth, and a pretty 
considerable weight, which must remain until the cloth is 
quite dry. A screw press may be substituted for the 
weight with better effect. 

How many a man, by throwing? himself to the gronnd In despidr, cmshes and 
destroys for ever a thousand flowers of hope that were ready to sprmg up and gladdea 
his pathway. 

Varioits Methods of Cleaning Laces, Silks, Gloves, 

and other Articles of Clothing. 

A WHITE Lace Veil may be cleaned by setting it in a 

strong lather of white soap and very clean water. Let it 

jf\j^f simmer slowly for about a quarter of an hour. 

Qg^ Then take it out, and squeeze it well, but avoid 

rubbing it. Einse it in two cold waters, adding 

to the last a drop of liquid blue. Have ready some very 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 259 

clear weak gum-arabic water, or some thin starch, or rice- 
water. Pass the veil through it, and clear it by clapping. 
Then stretch it out even, and pin it to dry on a linen cloth, 
making the edge as straight as possible, opening out all 
the scallops, and fastening each with pins. When dry, 
lay a piece of thin muslin smoothly over it, and iron it 
on the wrong side. 

927 )@^* A Black Lace Veil may be cleaned by passing 
it through a warm liquor of BullocVs Gall and water ; 
after which it must be rinsed in cold water, then cleansed 
for stijQPening, and finished as follows : — Put a piece of glue, 
about the size of a bean, into boiling water, and let it 
dissolve. Pass the veil through the solution, clap it, and 
then stretch on a frame, or on a linen cloth, to dry. When 
dry, iron on the wrong side, having laid a linen cloth under 
the ironing blanket. 

928 m^ Any article of Black Lace may be cleaned in 
the same manner. 

929 1^^ Silk Lace or Blonde may be cleaned by cover- 
ing a bottle with clean linen or muslin, winding the lace 
round it, tacking on the ends with needle and thread, not 
leaving the edge outward, but turning it under while 
winding. Set the bottle thus covered to stand in a strong 
lather of white soap and very clean soft water, cold, and 
place it in the sun, first gently rubbing the suds up and 
down on the lace. Keep it in the sun for several successive 
days, changing the latter daily, and rubbing gently each 
time. Take the Lace from the bottle, and pin it backward 
and forward on a flat boai'd, covered with clean linen. It 
must be pinned carefully with small pins, so as to lie 
straight and even. When dry, iron or press it, without 
stai'ching. 

930 f^ Thread Lace may be cleaned in the same 
manner. When dry, lay in long folds. Or, when the 
thread lace has been tacked to the bottle, take some of 
the best sweet oil, and saturate the lace thoroughly. Have 

K 2 



260 THE FAMILY SATE-ALL : 

ready in a yrash-kettle, a strong cold lather of clear water, 
and white Castile soap. Fill the bottle with cold water, 
to prevent its bursting, cork it well, and stand it upright 
in the suds, with a string round the neck secured to the 
ears or handle of the kettle, to prevent its shifting about 
and breaking while over the fire. Let it boil in the suds 
for an hour or more, till the lace is clean and white aU 
through. Drain off the suds, and drj it on the bottle in 
the sun. When dry, remove the laoe from the bottle and 
roll it round a wide ribbon-block ; or lay it in long folds, 
place it within a sheet of smooth white paper, and press 
it in a large book for a few days. 

931 1^^ Lace may he cleaned without washing by fixing 
it even in a tent, and rubbing it over with the soft part 
of fine bread. Afterwards dust out the crumbs. 

932 [^^ Crochet collars, or other work, may be cleaned 
by the above methods. 

933 ^^ Gold Lace may be cleaned by rubbing it with 
a soil brush, dipped in Boohe Alum, burnt, and mfted to 
a very fine powder. 

934 1^* Alkaline preparations, though they clean the 
gold, corrode and discolour the silk of Gold Embroidery 
Work, and soap injures certain colours. But Spirit of Wine 
may be used without injury to the silk, and in many 
instances will restore the lustre of the gold. But if tiie 
gold is worn ofi^ and l^e silver underneath iamifiihed to 
a golden colour, it will be best to let the taruii^ remaio. 

935 J^^ Brbhons, Satins, Scarfs, he, of one colour, shootd 
be treated as follows: — Put about a taUe-spoonM of good 
spirit of wine into a gallon of very clean soft water. Wmh. 
the ribbon, or other article, in this ; and next wash it through 
a warm lather of white soap; afterwards rinse in cold 
water, pull even, and dry gradually. When dry, stretch 
it upon an ironing table, fasten it to ihe ^oth by pins^ 
and sponge evenly all over with a very weak solution of 
isinglass, or rice-water* If a ribbon, iroa it npon a sheet 



INYALUABLB HIKXS. 261 

of smootli letter paper^ putting paper also oi^r it^ and 
move the iroa quicklj. 

936 JfSr When the colour is Lilac^ add a little dissolved 
Pearlash to the rinsing water ; if Greeruy. a little Vinegar; 
if Pink or BluCy a few drops of Vitriol; if Yellow, a little 
tincture of Saffron; if White, mix. a: salt-spoonful of Cream 
of Tartar with tihe soap' suda. Other colours maj be set 
hy stirring a tea-spoonful of Ox-^ll into the first water. 

937 US' Flowered Silks and White Satins may be 
cleaned with the following preparation : — ^Mix sifted bread 
crumbs with powder blue, and rub it thoroughly all over 
the article; shake well, and dust with clean soft cloths. 
Should there be any Gold or Silver Flowers, take a piece 
of crimson ingrain velvet, rub the flowers with it. aii£ 
their lustre will be improved. 

938 1^^ Creased Bihhons may be restored by laying 
them evenly on a board, and with a very clean, sponge, 
damping them evenly all over. Then roll them smoothly 
and tightly on a ribbon block, of greater breadth than the 
ribbon, and let them remain until dry. Afterwards, trans- 
fer to a clean dry block. Then wrap in brown paper,^ and 
keep until waited. 

939 US' Bihhons and other SiUcs should be put away 
for preservation in brown paper;, the cMoride of lime used 
In manufactmring wMte paper fitequently produces dis- 
coloration. A White Satin Dress should be pinned in 
hhie paper, witk brown paper outside,, sewn together at 
the edges. 

940 |@* Grease Spots may be taken from silks in tibe 
following manner: — ^Upon a deal table lay a piece of 
woollen cloth or baize, upon which, lay smoothly the part 
stained, with the right side downwards. Saving spread 
a piece of brown paper on the top,, apply a flat-iron jnst 

, hot enough to • scorch the paper. About fl^ve or eight 
, seconds is usually sufficient. Then rub the stiuned part 
briskly with a piece of cap-paper. 



262 THE FAMILY SAVE- ALL : 

941 1^^ Coloured or Black SilkSy Stuffs, Moreens, Printed 
Cottons, and Chintzes, may be cleaned, without injury to 
their colours, by Potatoe Liquor. Grate raw potatoes to 
a fine pulp ; add water in the proportion of a pint to a 
pound of potatoes ; pass the liquid through a coarse sieve 
into a vessel, and allow it to remain till the fine white 
starch subsides to the bottom. Pour off the clear liquor, 
which is to be used for cleaning. Spread the article to 
be cleaned upon a table, which should be covered with a 
linen cloth ; dip a sponge in the liquor, and apply it until 
the dirt is removed. Then rinse the article in clean cold 
water several times. 

942 1^^ The Coarse Pulp, which does not pass through 
the sieve, will do to clean Worsted Curtains, Carpets, and 
other coarse articles; and the White Starch that subsides 
from the liquor may be rendered useful for ordinary 
starching purposes. 

943 1^^ Some persons use the whole of the Pulp and 
water for the scouring process. Others slice the potatoes, 
and ruh the slices on the stuff, in the same manner as soap 
is applied. 

944 J^^ Silk Stockings may be cleaned in the following 
manner: — ^After washing them in the usual way, rinse 
them in clean water, and wash them well in fresh soap 
liquor ; then make a thh'd soap liquor, and colour it with 
a little stone blue; wash the stockings once more, wring 
them, and dry them carefully. Stove them with brimstone, 
drawing two stockings, one over the other, upon a wooden 
shape. In drawing them on, see that the two fronts, or 
outsides come together, to accomplish which, one stocking 
must be the right way, the other outside in. Polish with 
a glass bottle. The first two liquors should be luke-warm, 
but the third as hot as the hand can bear it. 

945 l^a^ Blondes and Gauzes may be cleaned in the 
same manner ; but for these there should be a little gum 
put in the last liquor. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 263 

946 tS" MousselineS'de-Latne may be washed ' in Hice 
Water. Boil a pound of rice in five quarts of water, and, 
wlien cool, wash the material in this, using the rice for 
soap. Have a second quantity ready, but strain the rice 
from this, and use it while warm, keeping the rice strained 
off for a third washing. This process will stiffen the 
:&bric, and heighten the colours. 

947 1^^ The Colours of Merinos, MousseUnes-de^ 
laine, CHnghams, Chintzes^ Printed Lawns, &c., may be 
preserved by using a strong milk-warm lather with white 
80ap, and putting the dress into it, instead of rubbing it 
on the material, and stirring into a first and second tub 
of water a large table-spoonful of ox-gall. 

948 [^^ Coloured Articles should not be allowed to 
remain long in water. A small piece of Alum should be 
boiled in the water of which the lather is to be made. 
They should be washed quickly, and then rinsed through 
two cold waters. Should alum not be added to the lather, 
then a tea-spoonful of vinegar should be stirred into the 
water for each rinsing ; this will help to fix and brighten 
the colours. After rinsing, they should be hung out 
immediately to dry. 

949 [^^ No Coloured Articles should ever be loiled or 
scalded. Neither should they be allowed to freeze, or the 
colours will be irreparably injured. They should be ironed 
immediately they are dry enough, and not be allowed to 
lie damp over night, nor be sprinkled. They should not 
be smoothed with a hot iron. Pinh and Chreen colours, 
though they may withstand the washing, will frequently 
•change as soon as a hot iron is put over them, 

950 [^^ Black Crape, and Mourning Dresses, may be 
freed from stains in the following manner: — Boil a handful 
o^ Fig-leaves in two quarts of water, until reduced to a 
pint. Squeeze the leaves, strain the liquor, and put it 
into a bottle for use. Bombazines, Crape, Cloth, &c., 
should be rubbed with a sponge dipped in this liquor, and 



264 THE FAMILY 8ATB*4LL : 

ifiost staiat will be instantljr r^NmorecL flbonlid; tksre be 
any objection to weittmg the materkiv Frenek Chcdk ndll 
absorb grease from the finest textaias^ wsthoot injoriog 
them. When Crape is stained mth water^ j^-oducing a 
whitish miarky spread it on a ittbla, la(fuig^ on it a large 
book or paper weight to keep it steadf ^ and placer under- 
neath the stain a bit of waste blacft: ayfa- With, « eamel's 
hair brush, dipp^ in good Wriim^ Ink^ gtf ow the stain, 
and then wipe off the ink with a little bit dS klkck sift. 
The white mark will be resieyed. 

961 UST Shimmed Milk and WaUof, wilii a bit g£ iae 
glue dissolved in it^ made scalding hoty is anL< exeelleit 
restorative of rusty Black lUiUan Crape^ It ahould to 
clapped and pulled drjFy. like moslin^ aB«l Witt be greatly 
improved. 

9^2 $^ China Crape^ Scarfs' t&n bewaadiedBB freq^aeaitij 
as may be reqi^iredy in the foUewing aianner>-^Maicef a 
strong lather of boiling water, and ailowit #» eodl. When 
cold, or nearly so, waaift the searf fuieidiy aod^ Aofou^^, 
dip it immediately m cold hard wates^ in whiek a IMe 
salt has been thrown, rinse, squeeee, and haad k out to 
dry in the open air, and the more qmUy it diria^ lie 
deaner it wiU be. 

963 JgSF To wash; Ckmtxes^. and pveserte Hkeir; «^oars 
and gloss, take two potaids of Miee^ mod boil it ua two 
gaUoB» of water tiU soft ; pour it iate^ a tub^ with Hke 
liquor; let it stand, until about the wanath geisen^y 
approved Ibr coloured linen ; then piit the duala m, sad 
«8e the rice instead of soap ; then boil ihe same ^faaat^y 
of rice agaia, but strain the rice firom the wates^ iMad mix 
it m warm clean waiter^ Wash m this until ^^pdte ^san; 
afterwards rinse it ia the waler the rice was belled ia, 
and tiHS wUl aeswer better than Siarek^ k wiU he st^ 
as loBg a» yeu wsar it, and wiU not be afiected^ by dew. 
If a Gboum, it^mist be taken to pieces^ aad ftr drying be 



UTfALUABLE HINTS. 265 

hung as smoodilj as possible. When dry, rub ^ with a 
^eek st&BB, but do not use an iron. 

954 JgSr Faded Dresses may be blea(^ed hj wnishing 
them well in hot 9uds and boiling them until the colour 
, disappears ; then drj in the sun. 

965 D^ Fruit Stains m&j generally be r^noved from 
Linen by rubbing the part on each side with yellow soap, 
then tying up a piece of pearlash in the cloth, and soaking 
well in boiling water. Afterwards expose th^ stained 
part to Ihe sun and air, until removed, and repeat if 
necessary. 

956 tt^' J^Kldew m&j hQ remoTed firom Linen by soap, 
well rubbed in ; then scrape some fine chaJk, and rub it 
also on the linen. Li^ it on die grass, in the sun. As it 
dries, ^e mildew will disappear. It may require to be 
repeated. If the st^ns are of long standing, rub th^n o& 
each side wiih wet brown soap; mix some starch to a 
thick paste, with cold water, and spread it oTer the soaped 
places. Then expose as before* If the stains do iK)t 
yield, try, instead of the stardi, chalk, &c., boiled ric^ 
scraped potatoes, and lastly a little -chloride of lime. The 
stain that does not yield to one substance wiH pcobably 
be removed hy another. 

957 1^^ When Linen has Turned Tellcm, /cut up a 
pound of fine white soap into a gall<^ <of maik, and hang 
it over a fire in a wai^kettle. When the soap has 
completely melted, put m the linen, and boil it half an 
hour. Then take it out ; have ready a lather of soap 
and water ; wash l^e linen in it, aa^i then rinse it 
^irough two cold wat^rs^ with a very little blue in the last.. 

958 1^^ When Linen has been Scorified, use the 
following remedy i— -Add to a quart of vinegar the juice 
of half-a-dozen large onions, aibout an «unce of soap rasped 
down, a quarter of a pound of fuller's earth, an ounce o£ 
fime, and one ounce of pearlae^. Boil the whole until it ia 



266 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

pretty thitfik, and spread some of it upoa the scorched part. 
Allow it to remain until drj, then scrape it off, and wash» 
Two or three applications will restore the linen, unless 
so much scorched that the fabric is destroyed. 

959 1^^ Iron Moulds may be removed from Linen by 
rubbing them over with sulphuret of potash ; then steep 
the spot in lemon-juice, or citric acid, and afterwards wash 
well in water. 

960 1^^ Marking Ink may be removed from Linen. 
by a saturated solution of cyanuret of potassium, applied 
with a camel's hair brush. Common Ink Stains may be 
removed by applying, in the same manner, oxalic acid. 
But frequently, when the stain is caused by ink manu- 
factured with Logwood, a red mark remains, which may 
be removed by the application of a little chloride of lime. 
All strong acids and alkalies tend to injure the fabric; 
therefore, immediately the stains are removed, the spots 
should be well rinsed in cold water. 

^1 1^^ Grease may be taken out of Velvet by a little 
turpentine, poured over the spot ; then rub briskly with a 
piece of clean dry flannel. Repeat the application, if neces- 
sary, and hang the article in the air, to remove the smelL 

962 1^^ When the File of Velvet is pressed down, hold 
the part over the mouth of a vessel filled with boiling 
water, with the inside of the velvet turned to the water* 
The raising of the pile may be assisted by a few strokes of 
a brush alternately in opposite directions, while the velvet 
is over the vessel. 

963 1^^ White Satin Slices may be cleaned by rubbing 
them with stone blue and flannel, and afterwards cleaning 
them with bread. 

964 8^ A little Pipe Clay, dissolved in the water 
used for washing Linen will clean it thoroughly, with half 
the amount of soap, and a great diminution of labour ; the 
articles will be greatly improved in colour, and the texturer 
will be benefited. 



INVALUABLE HINTS, 267 

^5 1^^ Calicoes, if badly washed, are more liaBle than 
Linens to assume a yellow tinge. Many persons attempt to 
remedy this by a strong shade of blue, which is detrimental 
to the appearance of the linen. Lime water, unless used 
too strong, will thoroughly cleanse white cotton articles 
without injury. 

966 U^ The method of Washing with Lime is as- 
follows : — Take half a pound of quicklimey half a pound of 
Soap, and half a pound of Soda, Shred the soap and 
dissolve it in half a gallon of boiling water ; pour half a 
gallon of boiling water over the soda ; and enough boiling 
water over the quicklime to cover it. The lime must be 
quite fresh. Prepare each of these in separate vessels. 
Put the dissolved lime and soda together, and boil them 
for twenty minutes. Then pour them into a jar to settle. 
Set aside the Flannels and Coloured things, as they must not 
he washed in this way. The night before washing, the 
collars and wristbands of shirts, the feet of stockings, &c., 
should be rubbed well with soap and set to soak. In the 
morning pour ten gallons of water into the copper,* and 
having strained the mixture of lime and soda well, taking 
great care not to disturb the settlings, put it, together with 
the soap, into the water, and make the whole boil before 
putting in the clothes. A plate should be placed at the 
bottom of the copper to prevent the clothes from burning. 
Boil each lot of clothes from half an hour to an hour. 
Wash the finer things first. Then rinse them well in cold 
blue water. When dry they will be beautifully white. 
The same water will do for three lots. 

967 1^" RvLsty Black Clothes may be revived in the 
following manner: — ^Brush the garments well, then boil 
four ounces of logwood in a boiler or copper containing 
two or three gallons of water for half an hour ; dip the 
clothes in warm water, and squeeze dry, then put them 
into the copper and boil for half an hour. Take them out 
and add three drachms of sulphate of iron ; boil for half 



268 THB WJJOLT SAYS-ALL : 

aa hoor^ then take them out, and hang them up for an hoar 
or two ; take them down, rinse them in three cold waters, 
drj well, and rub with a soft 1»tish which has had a few 
drops of olive oil rubbed on its surface. 

968 $S^ J£ tiie clothes are threadbare about the elbows, 
cuffs, &c., raise the nap with a teazel or half-worn hatter's 
card, filled with flocks, and when sufficientlj raised, lay the 
nap the right way with a hard brui^ We hav^e seen old 
coats come out with a wonderful dash of veBpeetabilitjr 
after this operation. 

969 B^" White er Coloured Kid Glovee nmj be cleaned 
thus: — Put the glove on your hand, theb. take a small pieee 
of flannel, dip it in turpentine or camphine, and well but 
gently rub it over the glove, taking care not to make it too 
wet ; when the dirt is removed, dip the flannel (or another 
piece, if that has become dirty) in the pipe-clay aad rub 
it over the glove ; take it off, and hang it up in a room to 
dry, and in a day or two very little smell will remain j and 
if done carefully they will be almost as good as new. 

970 i@^ For Coloured gloves, if yellow, use ganboge 
alter the pipe-eli^, aiid for oth^ colours match it in dry 
coloured powder. 

971 i^ O, WkUe Kid Gloves may be eleaiiied as 
follows: — Stretch them on a board, and rub the soiled 
spots with cream of tartar or magnesia; Let th^n rest 
an hour. Take a mixture of alum and fuller's earth, in 
powder, and rub it all over the gloves with a clean brush, 
and let them rest for an hour or two. Then sweep it all 
off, and go over with a flannel dipped in a mixture of bran 
and flnely-powdered whiting. Let them rest another hour ; 
brush off the powder, and they will be very dean. 

^72 Igr Coiomred Gloves may also be cleaned tiras :— 
Have ready on a table a clean towel, folded three or four 
times, a saucer of new milk, and another sancer with a 
piece of brown soap. Take one glove at a time, and 
spread it smoothly on the folded towel. Th«i dip in the 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 269 

milk a piece of clean flannel, rub it on the soap till you get 
off a tolerable quantity, and then, -with the wet flannel, 
commence rubbing the glove. Begin at the wrist, and 
rub lengthways towards the end of the fingers, holding the 
glove firmly in your right hand. Continue this process 
miitil the gLore is well cleaned all over with the milk and 
soap. When done, spread them out, and pin them on a 
line to dry gradually, and as tliey dry, pull them oat 
evenly, the cross-way of the leather. Stretch them on 
your hands. 

973 Jg^ Furs may be cleaned as follows : — Strip ithe 
fiir articles of their stu£&ng and binding, and lay them as 
much as possible in a fiat position. They must then be 
subjected to a very brisk brushing, with a stiff clothes 
brash ; a^ber this, any moth-eaten pa&*ts must be cut oat, 
and be neatly replaced by new bits of fur to match. 

974 1^^ Sabk, ChincJtillOj Squirrel^ Fitchy &c., shoidd 
be treated as follows : — Warm a quantity of new bran in a 
pan, talking care that it does not burn, to prevent which it 
must be actively stirred. When well warmed, rub it 
thoroughly into the fur with the hand. Bepeat this two 
or three times: then shake the fur, and give it another 
sharp brushing until free from dust. 

975 l^f White Furs, Ermine, &c., may be cleaned as 
follows : — Lay the fur on a table, and rub it well with bran 
made moist with warm water ; rub until quite dry, and 
afterwards with dry bran. The wet bran should be put on 
with flannel, and the dry with a piece of book-muslin. 
The light furs, in addition to the above, should be well 
rubbed with magnesia,, or a piece of book-muslin, after the 
bran process^ 

976 1^* Or Z)ry Flour may be used instead of wet 
l)ran. Ermine takes longer than Minevar to clean.^ They 
should be rubbed against the way of the fur. 

977 B^ ¥iiv8 are usually much improved by stretching, 
which may be managed as follows : to a pint of soft water- 



270 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

add tliree ounces of salt, dissolve ; with this solution 
sponge the inside of the skin (taking care not to wet the 
fur), until it becomes thoroughly saturated ; then lay it 
carefully on a board with the fur side downwards, in its 
natural disposition ; then stretch as much as it will bear, 
and to the required shape, and fasten with small tacks. 
The drying may be quickened by placing the skin a little 
distance from the fire or stove. 

978 l^gr Corrosive Sublimate dissolved in the propor- 
tion of twelve grains to one pint of warm water, will 
produce a wash for furs that will preserve them against 
Moths. The liquid is poisonotis. A Tallow Candle 
wrapped in paper, and put away with furs in the summer, 
is efficacious for the prevention of moths, as also are Com- 
mon Soapy Bay Leaves^ Wormwood, Cedarwood, Eussia 
Leather, Lavender, Camphor, Walnut Leaves, Rue, and Black 
Pepper, either in powder or whole. It is not the moth, but 
the maggot of the moth that destroys the fur. 

An English lady, who went to make pnrchases in Jamaica, accompanied by ber 
black maid, was repeatedly addressed by the negro shopman as ** masaa," wherenpon 
her sable follower exclaimed, with a look of infinite contempt, ** Why for yon speak 
«ach bad English— no grammar, sabby ? Why for yon call my xnissos maasa ? ^pkl 
fellah— Atm'j a she/" 

Various Methods of Mending Broken Articles, 

There are a great many Cements by which broken Glass 

and China may be joined, and the selection of one of these 

_-. from among a number must mainly depend upon 

the transparency or colour of the article to be 

mended, the nature of the fracture, and other 

considerations. 

980 1^^ It is an important rule in the use of all 
cements that only a small quantity should be employed; 
and that, generally speaking, thin cements, judiciously, 
applied, will unite articles more strongly than thick ones. 

981 1^^ For uniting Glass and China, and for repairs 
of Cabinet Work, nothing can be better than the Liquid 
Glue, 795. 



INVALUABLE HINTS, 271 

982 1^^ Broken Glass may be mended as follows :— 
Cret some cloves of Garlic, tie them in a rag, and place 
them in a tin pan, pounding them with a hanmier, to express 
the juice. Wet the broken edges of the glass with this 
juice^ and stick them firmly together; stand the article 
upon a plate, or other level surface, and let it remain 

. undisturbed for a fortnight. 

983 1^^ China or Glass may be mended as follows : — 
Slake some Quick Lime with boiled water, and collect some 
of the fine powder of the lime. Take the White of an Egg 
and well beat it with an equal bulk of water, and add 
the slaked lime to it, so as to form a thin paste. It must 
be used speedily, and will be found to be very strong, and 
capable of resisting the action of boiling water. 

984 1^^ Cracked vessels of China, Earthenware, &c., 
6uch as chimney ornaments and vases, may be repaired 
by putting on the inside strips of tape, rubbed over with 
White Lead, 

985 8^" For uniting Cardboard, Paper, and small 
articles of Fancy-work, the best Glue dissolved with about 
one-third its weight of coarse brown sugar in the smallest 
quantity of boiling water is very good. When this is in 
a liquid state, it may be dropped in a thin cake upon a 
plate, and allowed to dry. When required for use, one 
end of the cake may be moistened by the mouth, and 
rubbed on the substances to be joined. 

986 1^^ The uses of Flour Paste are very well known. 
But it will be found a great improvement to add a little 
Alum to it before boiling ; it will then work more freely, 
the particles of flour will not separate from the water, and 
it will unite surfaces much more firmly. 

987 1^^ A paste to resist the attacks of Insects may 
be made by omitting the alum, and putting to each half 
pint of paste, fifteen grains of Corrosive Sublimate in 
powder, and well mixing it. This paste is poisonous, 

988 1^^ Bice Glue is also a very delicate and suitable 



272 THS FAMILY SATE^dULL : 

article for Fancy-work, Thoroughly nux sice ftbvx with 
eold water, and gently simmer over a lire. This isexc^ent 
ibr uniting paper, cardboard, &cu, and if properly made 
and applied,^ the joining will be fisund, Terj strong*. Wben 
dry it is almost transparent. 

989 1^^ Plaster of Farts figures may be mended by a 
solution of Glite, A thin solution should be employed, 
and brushed over the fractured part% two orituiee times, 
and allowed to soi^ in ; finally, a fi^esh thin coadng of ^ae 
should be applied, and the fi*actured parts set together aad 
tied in their places until the ghie dries* Shoidyd a dark 
line be formed on Hhe wxtside, it may be paloeted' &vec iv3& 
whiting. 

990 JSSr •^'^^ Kitchen Utensils nMuy be cemented by 
six parts of potter's clay, and one pact of atessi fiUags, 
mixed together with a sufficient quantity q£ linseed oil, 
to make a thick paste of the eooeist^ice of potty. It 
should be applied to the cracked parts on both ades, aad 
allowed to stand three or four weeks undistopfoed. 

^1 US' F^ mending SUms^work on a small scaler rach 
as Marble MaTUel-pieceSy the comers of Hearth^toneSy or the 
edges of Si^s^ Mastic Cement^ made by mixing twenlj 
parts of well washed aad sifted, sand,, with two pacts ^f 
litharge, and one of freshly burned and slaked quickplime, 
in fine dry powder, is very good. It may be used fiai: 
filling up the missing parts ; it seta in a £mv hoiiF% aad 
has the i^pearance of light stone. In stones of dark 
eolour, it may bo painted ov^ to match. 

992 H^ Another form of Mai^ic Cement^ or Mastk 
Gfiue^ suitable for ChinOf €RaSBy JEarthemaarSy the finer 
Stones and Marbles^ and even for Metals^ is prepared as 
follows: — ^To an ounce of mastic add as mndk highly 
rectified spirits of wine as wiH dtssolve it. Soak an 
ounce of isinglass in water nntil qiuile so£k^ tlkBU dissdve 
it. in pure rum or brandy, until it i£^m» a strraig glue^ to 
which add thout a qpioirter of an ouBce of fuiwanmioiiiaCy 



INTALTJABLE HINTS. 273 

well rubbed and mixed. Put the two mixtures together 
in an earthen vessel over a gentle heat ; when well united 
put into a phial and keep it well stopped. When wanted for 
use, die bottle must be set in wasrm water, when the china 
or glass articles must be also warmed and the cement 
applied. The broken surfaces, when earefuUy fitted, should 
be kept m close contact for twelve hours at least, until the 
cement m fully set; after which the fracture will be 
fdCmd as secure as mry part of the vessel, and scarcely 
peroepttible. 

^9S 1^^ in melting ordinary Glue in the double vessel 
containing water, it is an excellent method to add Salt to 
the water. It will not boil then, until heated considerably 
above the ordinary boiling point ; ihe consequence is, the 
heat is retained, instead of passing off by evaporation, and 
when the water boils, the glue will be found to be thoroughly 
and evenly melted. 

^^ H^* -^ adhesivB material f(»* joining Leather, 
Cloth, &c., which may be vseM in certain cases, is made 
as -fellows ! — Take one pound of gutta percha, four ounces 
of India rubber, two ounces of pitch, one ounce of shellac^ 
and two ounces of oil. Melt these ingredients together^ 
axi^ use them while hot. 

^3 9^ '^^^ ^^ OemcTst used £&r uniting glass to 
metals, may be purchased at the tool shops. It is made 
by melting five parts of black resin, one part of yellow 
wax, and then stirring in gradually one part of i*ed oehre 
or Venetian red, in fine powder, and previously well dried. 
This cemest requires to be meltted before use, and it 
adheres better if ^e olajeets to which it is applied are 
warmed. 

^96 1^^ A BO^ cement, of a scnooewhat similar ciiaracter, 
may be found usefUl for Covering the Corks of Preserved 
Fruits, and other bottiies; it is made hj melting yelloir 
wax with an equal quantifty of resin, or of oommon tur* 
pontine (not oil of twpei^tine, but 4he rcein), using .-tte 



274 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

latter for a very soft cement, and stirring in, as before, 
some dried Venetian red. 

The Rev. Dr. Wolff tells a story of a certain M. Preisweg, a good and excellent 
Christian, to whom a ghost appeared as he was going to bed, and said, " I am the 
ghost of a person who was hanged here six weeks ago." — ** That it no business oj 
mme,** replied Preisweg, "w good night.'* 

To obtain a Constant Supply of Mushrooms, 

Mushrooms are second only to beef and mutton, and, 

either by their substance or their juice, they may be made 

^ to enrich every kind of savoury dish. They may 

be grown in or out of doors, in brick-pits, under 

^ • sheds, walls, railway or other arches, in stables, 

lofts, coach-houses, yards, cellars, large boxes, &c. 

998 1^" To obtain the Spawn, see 775 ; or buy the 
Bricks of Spawn, which are sold at sixpence each. 

999 1^^ A Bed of Dung should be made, about one 
foot deep. The heat should be about 60*^ to 70*^ on the 
surface, and when the temperature gets too high, it may be 
kept down by uncovering, or by making rows of holes about 
six inches deep, and a foot apart. When the heat is 
properly regulated, the holes should be filled to within 
three inches of the surface, and the spawn then put into 
the holes, and cover with a little droppings. The bed 
should then be covered with any kind of soil which is n^t 
chalky or limy. About four inches in depth of this should 
be laid on and well beaten down, and matting or hay may 
be thrown over open beds. The bed should be watered 
fjccasionally with soft water, which in the winter should 
be chilled. Water should not be given too often — excess of 
heat and moisture are to be carefully guarded against, and 
water must be sparingly applied after the mushrooms have 
shown above the surface. 

1000 1^* The Covering of the Bed, whether matting or 
hay, must be occasionally removed to allow moisture and 
heat to escape, and prevent mouldiness. The mushrooms 
ought not to appear sooner than two months after spawn- 
ing ; but then a constant supply may be kept up. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 275 

1001 J^S* I^ gathering Mushrooms^ never cut them, but 
twist them gently off, and others will spring up from 
underneath. 

1002 ij^ Mushrooms are very liable to attacks from 
the Wood-louse, or Cheese-hug, The best method of 
destroying them is to frequently pour boiling water into the 
cracks between the stones and boards where they hide. 
They may be destroyed in Melon, Strawberry, and Cucumber 
beds, in the same manner. 

The purest, coldest maxims are poured down on us from pulpits and libraries, like 
flakes of snow ; but fast as they fall, they do not prevent the volcano of our passions 
from burning. 

Flowers that should be Cultivated Early in the Season 

for Bees. 

The first offering of Flora to the honey-gatherers, 

appears as the Christmas rose, Helleborus Niger, raising 

__. . its white blossoms above the snow, and is greatly 

prized by the Bees. Then follows the Crocus. 

1003 '^ J ' 

rich in pollen; and the delicate odours of the 

Hepatica are rivalled by their tempting sweets, but they 

must be the single kinds. Another very valuable flower 

is the White Arabis; it blooms for many weeks during 

spring, and its ever-green leaves, and close habit of growth, 

not rising above three inches from the ground, render it 

peculiarly well adapted for rock- work; it has likewise 

the advantage of being exceedingly hardy, and is easily 

propagated by cuttings. A few of these plants in the 

neighbourhood of the apiary would be a great assistance 

to the bees, and are also easy of cultivation ; and as they 

are propagated by division of roots, they may be transplanted 

•early in the season, if care is taken to have a good ball of 

earth about the roots. 

1004 8^ Borage is an excellent plant to cultivate for 

Bees, Two great recommendations in its favour are the 

•easiness of its culture, and the length of time it remains 

in flower. The fii'st sowing should be made in August or 



276 THB FAMILT SATE-ALL : 

September, which will survive the winter, and begin to 
flower in May or June ; a secoiid sawing may be made m 
March, and a third in the end of April or beginning of 
May ; these latter wiU con>tinue in flower until cixt down 
by the frosts of winter. The seed may be sown in patdbes 
about the siae of the top of a hat between the gooseberry 
and currant bushes in cottage gardens ;. or, if a whole bed 
can be spared, it may be sown in rows about a foot aaj^BSi, 
In either case, the plants should be thinned in coming up, 
as two or three in full flower will cover a square yard. 

There exists in human nature a disposition to mnrmnr at the dJaappoiiitiieDli 
and calamities incident to it, rather tlian to acknowledge with gratitude the bleasingv 
by which they are more than counterbalanced. 

The Best Methods of Producing Summer and Winter 

Salads. 
The prmeipal ingredients used in Salads in England 
--. , are Lettuce, Endive, Chicory, Radishes, Beet, Celery^ 
Tarragon, Chervil, Nasturtium, Burnet, Small Salad, 
and Cttcumbers, 

1006 B^ Lettuces are of two kinds, Cos and Cabbage, 
and their duration may be extended over the greater pact 
of the year by a little management. The first crop may 
be got in about the middle of April, and will be moit 
valuable for salad at that period. The kind called the 
Dutch forcing lettuce, if sown about the 25th of Axgasst, 
and preserved in a cold frame during the winter, may be 
planted on a slight hot-bed about the end of Felwrriary ; cr 
potted and plunged to the rims of the pots. The greatest 
diflculty is to preserve the plants from damping. It will 
bear almost as much heat as a cucumber, but requires 
shading in bright sunflhine, and is at the season in whidi 
it comes in a luxury but little known in English gardens, 
although commcm in fic^land. 

1007 i^ Those Cos and Cabbaige Lettmses which we^ 
sown in August to stand the winter in the open groxBsd, 
'wVl sxieceed in May, and the succession wiU be confamned 



IirrALU.AiBLS HINTS. 277 

by aowiaga.fecw^in altttleheat earlj in spring io succeed 
these; a crop sown broadcast in tibe open ground, and hoed 
out (previously giving a slight dressing of guano) will 
give fine summer lecttuoes. Similar successionol sowings 
up to July will continue the supply ; but those sown the 
end of that month will mdke iine lettuces if transplanted 
in the cooler nights and under the refreshing dews of 
autumn. If some of this sowing is taken up with balls, 
and put in a dryhouse or frame, they will continue the 
supply till Christmas, or even later. 

1008 1^^ The culture of Radishes needs little comment ; 
the early j&ame is best ibr winter and spring use, and the 
turnip-rooted kinds for summer. For winter, a frame may 
be sown the end of September, and a fortnight later ; and 
the next sowing may be upon a south border. 

1009 it^ Of BeetSy a sowing made in the beginning of 
May, in drills, will give a supply. 

1010 1^^ Celery is one of the most important crops ; 
its use for culinary purposes, as well as salads, renders its 
being of good quality a great desideratum. It is much in 
request in large families, both for stewing and salads, and 
forms a most important item of the kitchen garden. The 
first sowing must be made about the middle of February, 
in pits in heat, or on a slight hotbed. As soon as the plants 
are large enough, they should be pricked down upon four 
inches of rotten dung, laid upon an impervious bottom, 
which causes them to produce a dense mass of fibrous roots* 
when taken up for replanting in trenches. The distance at 
which Celery is planted is generally regulated by the 
ground and convenience; but, like all other vegetables, 
if it is to be fine it must not be crowded ; it requires 
plenly of water during its growth, and should have a spit of 
good rotten dung or leaf*mould to grow in. The latei^ 
crop may be sown about the middle of April ; intermediate 
sowings being also made between it and the first. 

1011 BS^ Chervil is an annual which only requires 



278 THB FAMILY SAYE-ALL : 

Buccessional sowings for winter ; some may be sown in 
pots about the end of July. 

1012 1^^ Tarragon is much in request by French cooks, 
for flavouring soups, and mixing in salads. It increases 
readily by slips or cuttings. It should never have its tops 
cut off in the winter, but when it has shot a little in spring, 
remove them. A store of pots must be provided f(ff 
winter supply, and gently forced. 

1013 1^" Every tyro is familiar with the culture of 
Small Salad, and that of Cucumbers is fully before the 
Gardening World. 

1014 1^^ Endive, when well blanched, is a most useful 
winter salad. Successional sowings should be made of it 
from the middle of June to the middle of August, and in 
the early part of November a quantity should be taken up 
and protected in cold frames or pits. It blanches in a very 
superior manner if potted and introduced into a mushroom 
house. 

1015 1^^ Chicory should be sown in April or May in 
drills, and should be six or eight inches apart. The roots 
may be taken up in autumn, cutting off the tops, and placing 
them in layers of rather dry soil in a mushroom shed. It 
soon produces new leaves, which, when well blanched, are 
of a moist, mild, and agreeable flavour. 

1016 i^" The flowers of the Nasturtium, and the leaves 
of the Burnet are sometimes used in salads ; and the 
common Corn Salad is an agreeable addition, which is 
much valued in France, where greater attention is paid to 
salads generally than we give them in this country. 

1017 l^i" In growing produce of this kind, the cul- 
tivator will have occasion to exercise his judgment in the 
various processes of accelerating, retarding, increasing, or 
diminishing, the supply required. The great point to 
attend to, in keeping up a supply, is to make frequent soW' 
ings, and to be as frequently planting out small proportions. 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 279 

Selection of the Best Fruits and Vegetables. 

As, generally speaking, the poor varieties of Fruits and 

Vegetables occupy as much ground, and demand as great 

__. . attention as the better sorts, it is obviously 

an important element of economy to know the 

best hinds to cultivate. Select, therefore, as nearly 

as possible in the order in which they are placed, the 

following varieties, modifying the selection by such attendant 

circumstances as cannot be laid down in general rules : — 

1019 @" Apples for the f i^c^en. — Alfriston, large and heavy, 
Noyember to April; Lord Soffield, large, August} Bedfordshire 
.Foundling, November to March; Codlin, Manks, September to 
November; Codlin, Keswick, Aug^t and September; French Crab 
may be kept two years; Dumelow*s Seedling, November to Apiil; 
Hawthomden, September to January; Nonsuch, September to 
October ; Northern Greening, November to April ; Pippin, Gooseberry, 
will keep till the next crop ripens ; Brownlee's Seedling, January to 
April ; Royal Russet, November to May ; Winter Colmar, November 
to May; Yorkshire Greening, October to January. 

1020 1^- Apples for the Kitchen and for Dessert, — Golden 
Harvey; Pearmain; Herefordshire; Pippin Blenheim; King of the 
Pippins, October to January; Pippin, Ribston; Pippin Sturmer, very 
late; Reinette du Canada. 

1021 iS" Apples for Dessert, — Barcelona Pearmain, November to 
March ; Beachamwell Seedling, December to March ; Court of Wick, 
October to March; Court Pendu Piatt, November to April; Early 
Harvest, July and August; Lord Suffield; Margaret, Joanetlng, 
August; Nonpareil, January to May; Pitmaston Nonpareil, November; 
Pearmain, Adams's, December to February ; Golden Pippin, November 
to March; Pippin, Kerry, September to October; Stanford Pippin, 
December to April ; Reinette, Golden ; Reinette, Van Mons, Aromatic, 
December to May ; Russet, Boston, January to April ; Russet, Syke 
House, November to February. 

1022 K®" Cherries for the Kitchen,— TAotqUo', Kentish; Elton; 
Belle Magnifique. 

1023 s^ Cherries for the Dessert, — Belle d'Orleans; Bigarreau, 
Black Eagle; Black Heart; Werdy's Early Black Heart; Downton* 
Elton; May Duke; Late Duke; Coe's Late Carnation. 

1024 1^ Apricots, — Early : Royal, Shipley, Kaisha. Late : Breda 
for preserving), Alsace, Peach, Moorpark. 



280 THB FAMILY BAYE-ALL : 

1025 |g|- Currants, — Black Naples^ Gonunon Bed; Sed 3)atch, 
Myatt's Ked Grape; White Dutch; Holland's White. 

1026 0* €f rapes, — Open air: Black July; Chaaaehui Mu^ae> 
white; Esperione, purple; Hambarg, hilackj Boyal lUCiiacadiBe, 
white; PUmaston Cluster, white; Dutch Sweetwater, white; Eariy 
Black Muscat. Cool Yinery : Due de Malakoff, white ; Early Btock 
Muscat Hamburg ; Barbarossa, black ; Black Prince; Madeira Mnaoat; 
ChasselasYibert; Golden Haniburg; West's St. Peter's, black ; White 
Romain. For Fordng-: Bowood Muscat ; Gtolden Hankbiiirg ; MfllHiS 
Hamburg ; West's St. Bester's ; Muscat of Alexandria, wdbite ; Caiuum 
Hall Muscat, late white; Black Hamburg; White Sweetwater. 

1027 0* Gooseberries for the Kitchen and Dessert. — Early 
White; White Eagle; Whitesmith; Bright Yenus; White Champagne. 
Yellow: Early Sulphur; Bockwood; BombuUion; Yellow CSiampagm. 
Green: Greengage; Gseen Orleans ; Greenwood; Large Xate Green; 
Green Gascoigne; Heplram Pr^lfic. Bed: Wilmot's Early; Bed 

, Ghampagpie ; Jackson's Bed (for preserving) ; Lancaster Hero ; Boug^ 
Bed, late (best for preserving) ; Wonderfdl ; Bed Warrington ; Keen*! 
Seedling; Ironmonger. 

1028 0* Melons, — Bed : Turner's Scadet Gem, early, liandsome, 
and excellent flavour ; Atkinson's Cranmore Hall ; Progmore Scarlet; 
McEwen's Hybrid Scarlet; Yictotia Windsor Prize; Green Carter's 
Excelsior; Beechwood; Bromham Hall; Golden Ball; Boosie's 
IncomparaUe ; Yictory of Bath. 

1029 0* A««torafietf.>-— Eady : Stanwick requires warmfli, end of 
August ; Elruge, forces well, end of August ; Imperatrioe, eoroellent for 
forcing; Murray, good flayoor, end of August; Newington Early, 
excellent flavoured, beginning of September ; Pitmaston Orange, best 
yellow-fleshed, end of August; Biver's Orange, Aug^t and September; 
Yiolet H&tive, best for forcing, end of August. Late : Old Newington, 
prized when shrvrolling, middle of September ; Peterborough, October. 

1080 0* Peaches, — Early : Bed Nutmeg, small, handsome, mnsky, 
July and Augfust; Grosse Mig^onne, first rate for forcing, end of 
August and beginning of September; Noblesse, besit for genoal 
purposes, end of August ; Early York, medium size, richly flacvomed, 
beginning of August; Boyal George, first-rate for forcing, end ef 
August; Crawford's Early, one of the best, end of Angust.' Late: 
Admirable, late for forcing, September; Admirable (Walbiirton), forees 
well, middle of September; Bellegarde, succeeds Boyal George, 
beginning and middle of September; Shanghai, the largest grovniy 
middle of September; Pueelle de Malines, very hardy, end of 
Septexnber; Salway, aromatic and juicy, beiginning of November. 

1081 0* Pears for the KHdhen. — BeUissime d'Hiimr, good 



INVALUABLE HINTS. 281 

«tewer; Catillftc, first-rate for baking; XJyedale St. Germain, largest 
stewing; Black Worcester, for preserving. Dessert: Aston Town, 
bears well as a standard; Bergamotte (Gansell's), rich flavour; 
Bergamotte (Esperen's), hardy ; Beiirr6 d'Amanlis, large and melting ; 
Beurr6 d'Aremberg, hardy as a standard ; Beurr^ Bosc, half melting, 
requires a wall ; Brown Beurr^, bears abundantly ; Beurr6 de Capiau- 
mont, fine melting ; Beurr6 de Mens, crisp flavour ; Beurr6 Diel, large 
mditing; Easter Beurr6, a valuable spring pear; Beurr6 Ranc6, melting 
and beautiful ; Beurr6 Van Mons, melting, very rich ; Bon Chretien 
d'Auch, rich, but rather gn^tty, without heat ; Bon Chretien Fondante^ 
cool, refreshing juiee ; Bon Chretien Musque, slightly perfumed ; Bon 
Chretien (William's), requires a warm situation ; Chaumontel, buttery, 
splendid as pyramid; Colmar, requires a wall; Crassane, requires a 
warm wall; Crassane Althorp, good as a standard; Doyenne Oray, 
hardy autumnal ; Duchesse d' Angouldme, large and melting ; Dunmore^ 
good as a standard; Mathews' Eliza, large melting, valuable in the 
smallest collection; Foulle, melting, speckled like a trout; Glout 
Morceau, very late, requires a wall; Incomparable (Haoon's), melting; 
Inconnue, Van Mons, melting ; Jargonelle, very juicy, early; Josephine 
de Malines, aromatic flavour; Louise Bonne of Jersey, handsome; 
Marie Louise, best on a wall, very buttery ; Ne Plus Meuris, best late ; 
Passe Colmar, melting, great bearer ; Saint Denis, melting ; Seckel, 
good bearer ; Swan's Egg, good bearer ; Thompson's, very rich ; Van 
Mons, melting; Vicar of Winkfield, very large; Winter Nells, very 
melting, deserving a wall. 

1032 i@- Twelve Best Pears for a Small CoUectian.-^KnighVs 
Monarch, Thompson's Marie Louise, Louise Bonne of Jersey, Beurr6 
Bosc, Beurr6 Hardy, Winter Nells, Beurr^ Diel. Glout Morceau, Passe 
Colman, Eastern Beurr6, Beurr6 Ranc6. 

1033 «■ Six of the Best Early Pears. -^Dojeiake d' Ete, 
Jargonelle, Beurr6 Gtoubalt, Bon Chretien, Summer Beurr6,Giflbrd Rose. 

1034 ^- Plums for the Kitchen. — ^Victoria, red, large; a great 
bearer and very hardy, ripe in July ; Goliah, very large purple, excellent 
for Preserving ; Winesour, for Preserving; Mitchelson's, most prolific. 

1035 ^- Plums for Dessert. — Peach, July Green Gage, equal to 
Green Gage, and earlier ; Early Favorite, best early ; Jefl*erson, better 
as a standard than Green Gage; Heine Claude Violet, bears freely 
as standard; Denyer's Victoria, bears well as standard; Kirke's; 
Purple Gage; Topaz. 

1036 ^^ Plums for Kitchen and Dessert, — Coe's Golden Drop, 
excellent as standard; Green Gage, well known; Imperatrice, blue, 
requires a wall ; Orleans, Prince of Wales, finer than old Orleans ; 
Prince Eaglebert. 



282 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

1087 0" RaspberrieSf J&arZy.— Black Cap ; Carter's Prolific ; Red 
Antwerp, uneqaalled ; Beehive, large ; Fastolff, first-rate ; Prince of 
Wales. Late. — Double-bearidg ; Victoria, October Red, October 
Yellow. These must be cat down to the ground in February, 

1038 i^ Strawberries. — Early: Black Prince, forces well; May 
Queen; Keen's Seedlings; Prolific Hautbois; Orove End Scarlet; 
Carolina Superba. Medium: British Queen, uncertain ; Alice Maud; 
Comte de Paris; Kitley's Goliath; Sir Charles Napier; Sir Harry; 
Oscar; Myatt's Eliza. Late: Elton Pine, fertilized; Hautbois; 
^eanor ; Red and White Alpines. 

1039 i^" ^«an«.— Earliest : Marshall's Early Dwarf; Early Long- 
pod. Main Crop: Conqueror; Green Long^pod; Hangdown (good fur 
market); Johnson's Wonderful. Late; Taylor's Windsor; Green 
Windsor; Thick-seeded Windsor. 

1040 0* French Beans, — Early and for Forcing : Newington 
Wonder ; Fulmer's Forcing ; Robin's Egg ; Six Weeks. Main Crop : 
Dark Dun ; Negro. Late : Dwarf Dutch ; Red- speckled. 

1041 1^ 5ee^.— Whyte's Black Red ; Cattell's Dwarf; Henderson's 
Dwarf-top White Silesian ; White Spinach Beet. 

1042 tl^ Borecole. — Cottager's Kale (Turner); Dwarf Green; 
Hardy Purple; Ragged Jack; Tall Curled; Variegated, for gar- 
nishing. 

1043 ^- ^rocoZt. — Cumming's (new); MeMlle's White May; 
Snow's Winter; Grange's Walcheren; Chappel's Cream; Early 
Sprouting; Mitchell's Ne Plus Ultra; Dwarf Siberian. 

1044 ^i~ Brussels Sprouts. — Rosebury, and the old sort imported. 

1045 ^' Cabbage. — Early Fulham; Early York; Early Admirable; 
West Ham ; Nonpareil ; Shilling's Queen ; Sprotsborough ; Vanack; 
Green Colewort ; East Neuk ap Pipe. 

1046 "J^ Carrots. — Early: Horn; Long Orange; Surrey Altring- 
ham ; Improved, has green top, but Is the most productive of any, and 
excellent flavour. 

1047 Cauliflower. — Mitchell's Hardy; Early London; Haagv's 
Forcing; Stadtholder. 

1048 ^- Celery. --Cole's Red; Cole's White ; Giant White; Laing's 
Mammon ; Red; Manchester Red. 

1049 ^' Cucumbers. — Exhibition ; Improved Manchester ; Norfolk 
Hero ; Hunter's Prolific ; Essex Rival ; Cunning's Prolific (excellent for 
winter and spring) ; Carter's Champion Ipswich Standard ; Latter'B 
Victory. 

1050 ^^ Oourds. — Custard Long Green ; Dancer's Ribbed ; Ame- 
rican Marrow ; Citronelli, and common Pumpkin. There are almost as 
many varieties of Marrow as there are days in the year, and there is 



INTALUABLE HINTS. 283 

but little difference as to their several merits, but the Castard is the 
best flavoured. 

1051 ^- Lettuce. — Brighton Cos ; Brown ; White and Black Bath 
Cos ; Fulham Cos ; Malta (fine) ; Hammersmith ; Sicilian Cabbage ; 
(fine), Neapolitan, Snow's Compact. 

1062 i5^ Onions, — White Spanish (hardy), Deptford; James Eup- 
ing Tripoli ; Welsh (for salading) ; Silver Skin, for pickling ; for 
which purpose also use White Globe, sown thick on poor ground, and 
the Tree Onion. 

1053 ^^ Peotf.— Earliest: Sangster's No. 1; Eastring's Early 
Dwarf; Emperor; Early Charlton: Second Early and Succession: 
Alliance; Harrison's; Glory; Blue Perfection; Wrench's Perfection ; 
Yeitcir's Perfection; Hair Dwarf Mammoth; Harrison's Napoleon; 
Warwick ; Charlton ; Taylor's Profific ; Shilling's Grotts Ringwood 
Marrow; Cotterell's Wonder; Dickson's Favourite; Dwarf Green 
Mammoth ; Prize-taker ; Bedman's Imperial ; Carter's Champion^ 
King of Marrows, (very large) ; Prussian Blue (if true, first-rate) ; 
Waterloo Marrow, Burbidge's Eclipse (very prolific). 

1054 i®* Potatoes, — Regent; Forty-fold; Onwards; Flower-ball; 
Early Fulham ; Ash-leaf; Lapstone ; Flukes ; Myatt's Brockley ; 
Red Ash-leaf. 

1055 ^^ Savoy, — Barnes' Feather-stemmed ; Early Ulm ; Cattel's 
Green Curled Dwarf Drumhead. 

1056 ^S' The names of the months indicate the times when the 
fruit or vegetable is best for the table. All the best known varieties 
are included in the above judicious selection, which has been extracted 
and revised from The Garden Oracle. 

A LUCKLESS nndergradnate of Cambridge, being examined for his degree, and 
fEUIing in every subject upon which he was tried, complained that he had not been 
4ue8tioned upon the things which he knew. Upon which the examining master 
took off about an indi <ff paper, and pushing it towards him, dedred him to write 
Tq;>on that <Ul he knew. 



PART IIL 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. 



1057 tS' Po^ Wine itdment^ is excellent as a flavouring 
to coffee. 

1058 B^ Biscuits, broken, and biscuit dust are good 
for puddings. 

1059 B^ Chestnuts maj be made into soups or 
puddings. 

1060 fS' ^ilK morning, is richer than that of th« 
evening. 

1061 10* LeehSy green tops of, sliced thin, capital 
flavouring for soups. 

1062 B^ Wood ashes form a good lye for softening 
water. 

1063 B^ Bricks covered with baize, serve to keep 
open doors. 

1064 B^ ^y^i roasted, is the best substitute for 
coffee, with chicory. 

1065 B^ Turnip-peel, washed clean, and tied in a 
net, imparts good flavour to soups, 

1066 B^ (^old 9^^^ ^ '^^U sweetened, put into 
saucers, will destroy flies. 

1067 yS" Celenj leaves and ends, are useful for flavour- 
ing soups, gravies, sauces, &c. 



HISOELLANEOUS HINTS. 285 

1068 it^^ Beans, roasted, form an agreeable substitute 
for coffee, with chicory. 

1069 B^ Walnuts, the outer green husks supply, with 
vinegar, a very good catchup. 

1070 O^ Cherry kernels, broken, steeped in brandy, 
make a nice flavouring for tarts. 

1071 BS^ Mulberry juice in small quantity greatly 
improves the colour and flavour of cider* 

1072 B^ Wheat, roasted, forms an agreeable substitute 
for coffee, with chicory. 

1073 B^ Chth of old clothes, may be made into door 
mats, pen-wipers, &c. 

1074 B^ -^^y leaves, in their green state, allay the 
inflammation of bee-stings. 

1075 O^ Lin.en rags should be washed and preserved 
for various domestic uses. 

1076 B^ Apple pips impart a flne flavour to tarts 
and dumplings. 

1077 B^ Old shoes make excellent slippers, and being 
occasionally polished look very well. 

1078 BS^ The Soot should be brushed from the backs of 
kettles daily, and the front parts be polished. 

1079 B^ S^^ leaves in small quantity, make an 
excellent addition to tea. 

1080 B^ Lemon juice will allay the irritation caused 
by the bites of gnats and flies. 

1081 B^ Clothes Unes should be well wiped before tjiey 
are put away. Qutta percha lines are best. 

1082 B^ Ashes and soap-suds are a good manure for 
shrubs and young plants. 

1083 B^ An Oyster shell, put into a teakettle, will 
prevent its becoming furred. 

1084 B^ The white of egg, beaten to a froth with a 
little butter, is a good substitute for cream in tea or coffee. 

1085 Be^ Honey and castor oil mixed are excellent for 
the asthmatic, A tea-spoonful night and morning. 



286 THE FAHILT SAYB-ALL : 

1086 fS' Soap suds, and soapy watery supply a good 
manure for garden soils. 

1087 j^" Cold potatoes, mashed with peas, make an 
excellent and light peas pudding. 

1088 Jg^ Wooden spoons are generally hest for articles 
that require beating or stirring in cookery. 

1089 J/^ Milk when slightly acid, mixed with a little 
lukewarm water, is a cooling drink for invalids. 

1090 I^T Bran, dusted over joints of meat when hung, 
will keep them good for an extra time. 

1091 J^g' As much carbonate of soda as will lie on a 
four-penny piece, added to tea, will increase its strength. 

1092 J^g' Parsley eaten with vinegar will remove the 
unpleasant effects of eating onions, 

1093 j^" Fine coals are excellent for cleaning bottles. 
Put them in with a little hot or cold water, and shake well 

1094 i|^ Lemon Feel is useful for flavouring gravies, 
sauces, puddings, punch, grog, &c. 

1095 B^ Flum stoneSy hroken, and steeped in brandy, 
afford an excellent flavouring for tarts. 

1096 B^ The juice of Bean Fods is an effective cure 
for warts. 

1097 10^ Eggs white of, useful for clearing coffee; 
and as a cement for broken china, with lime. 

1098 I^T A little cider added to apple tarts, greatly 
improves them. 

1099 m^ Fried cucumber, added to Soups, greatly 
improves them. They should be fried in slices. 

1100 Jj^ Gas meters may be prevented from freezing 
by keeping one burner lighted during the whole day. 

1101 J^g Scotch oatmeal, careftilly dried, will keep 
cream cheese good and dry, if laid over it. 

1 102 1^^ The leaves and roots of the blackberry shrub 
make an excellent and refreshing tea. The berries are a 
corrective of dysentery. 

1103 Jj^ Stale bread, after being steeped in water, 



t MISCSLLANEOUS HINTS. 287 

and re-baked for about an hour, wtU be nearly equal to 
new. 

1104 1^^ Fea-shelh and haulm are excellent food for 
horses, mixed with bruised oats, or bran. Good also for 
pigs. 

1105 fS' Butter which has been used for covering 
potted meats, may be used for basting, or in paste for 
meat pies. 

1106 |@^ Bleeding from the nose may be stopped by 
putting bits of lint into the nostrils ; and by raising the 
arms over the head. 

1107 $^ Egg shells^ are useful for the stock-pot, to 
clarify the stock. 

1108 H^dgr In winter, get the work forward hy daylight, 
which will prevent many accidents and inconveniences 
with candles, &c. 

1 109 $^ In ironing, be careful first to rub the iron over 
something of little value ; this will prevent the scorching 
and smearing of many articles. 

1110 |@^ When chamber towels wear thin in the middle, 
cut them in tyro, sew the selvages together, and hem the 
sides. 

1111 B^ One flannel petticoat will wear nearly as long 
as two, if turned hind part before, when the front begins 
to wear thin. 

1112 B^ For turning meats while broiling or frying, 
smaUHm^a are better than a fork. The latter lets out the 
juice of the meat. 

1113 B^ Persons of weak sight, when threading a needle, 
should hold it over something white, by which the sight 
will be assisted. 

1114 B^ Lemon and orange seeds either steeped in 
spirits, or stewed in syrups, supply an excellent bitter 
tonic. 

1115 B^ Outta Percha is useful for filling decayed 



288 THE FAHILT SAYE-ALL : -« 

teeth, stopping crevices in windows and floors, preventing 
windows from rattling, &c. 

1116 B^ Potatoes may be prevented from sprouting in 
the spring season, by momentarilj dipping them into 
hot water. 

1117 J^ff" To loosen a glass stoppevy pour round it a 
little sweet oil, close to the stopper, and let it stand 
in a warm place. 

1118 J^g" Raspberries^ green, impart an acidity to 
spirit more gratefril than that of the lemon. A decoction 
in spirit may be kept for flavouring. 

1119 03^ Acorns f roasted, form a substitute for coffee, 
and produce a beverage scarcely less agreeable especially if 
with an addition of chicory. 

1120 B^ The presence of copper in liquids may be 
detected by a few drops of hartshorn^ which produces, 
when copper is present, a blue colour. 

1121 J^' Cold melted butter may be warmed by putting 
the vessel containing it into boiling water, and allowmg 
it to stand until warm. 

1122 j^" Cabbages, (red), for pickling, should be cut 
with a silver knife. This keeps them frt)m turning 
black, as they do when touched with iron. 

1 123 03^ Common radishes, when young, tied in bunches, 
boiled for twenty minutes, and served on Imttered toatt^ 
are excellent. 

1124 Jj^ Eel skins, well cleansed, to clarify icoffee, 
&c. Sole skins, well cleansed, to clarify coflee, &c., and 
i)mking flsh soups and gravies. 

1125 1^^ Charcoal powder is good for polishing knives, 
without destroying the blades. It is also a good tooth- 
powder, when finely pulverised. 

1126 B^ The earthif mould should never be washed 
from potatoes, carrots, or other roots, until immediately 
before they are to be cooked. 

1127 i@^ Apple pips, and also the pips of pears, should 



MISGKLLANEOnS HINTS. 289 

be saved, and put into tarts, bruised. They impart a 
delicious flavour. 

1128 1^^ Potatoe watery in which potatoes have been 
scraped, the water being allowed to settle, and after- 
wards strained, is good for sponging dirt out of silk. 

1129 |@^ Sitting to sew by eandU-light, before a table 
with a black cloth on it, is injurious to the eyes. When 
suqh work must be done, lay a black cloth before you. 

1130 1^^ Straw matting may be cleaned with a large 
coarse cloth, dipped in salt and water, and then wiped 
dry. The salt prevents the straw from turning yellow, 

1131 |@^ Cold boiled potatoes used as soap, will cleanse 
the hands, and keep the skin soft and healthy. Those 
not over-boiled are best, 

1132 i@r In mending sheets^ shirtSy or other articles, let 
the pieces put on be fully large, or when washed the thin 
parts will give way, and the work be all undone. 

1133 |@^ Leaves, green, of any kind, worn inside the 
hat in the heat of sunmier, are said to be an effectual 
preventive of sun-stroke. 

1134 B^ Cakes, Puddings, &c., are always improved by 
making the currantSy sugar^y and flour hot, before using 
them. 

1135 B^ It is an error to give fowls egg ahellSy with 
the object of supplying them with lime. It frequently 
induces in fowls a habit of eating eggs. 

1136 J^g* Buttermilk is excellent for cleaning sponges. 
Steep the sponge in the milk for some hours, then squeeze 
it out, and wash in cold water. 

1137 I®" Lamp shades of ground glass should be 
cleaned with soap or pearlash ; these will not injure noi 
discolour them. 

1138 j^" When reading by candle-light, place the candle 
behind you, that the light may pass over your shoulder 
and fall upon the book from behind. 

1139 S^ Walnut pickle, after the walnuts are 

L 



« 



290 THE FAMILY SAVE-ALL : 

consumed, is useful for adding to gravies and sauces, 
especially for minced cold meats, and hashes. 

1140 B^ Coffee grounds are a disinfectant and 
deodorizer, being burnt upon a hot fire-shovel, and borne 
through anj apartment. 

1141 y^ Cold boiled eggs may be warmed by putting 
them into cold water and warming them gradually, taking 
them out before the water boils, 

1142 B^ The best plan to collect dripping is, to put it 
while warm into water nearly cold. Any impurities it 
may contain will sink to the bottom. 

1143 |@^ J?ay, sprinkled with a little chloride of lime, 
and left for one hour in a closed room, will remove the 
smell of new paint, 

1144 y^ Tea leaves^ used for keeping down the dust 
when sweeping carpets, are apt to stain light colours ; in 
which case, use newly-mown damp grass instead. 

1145 B^ Moths deposit their eggs in May and June. 
This, therefore, is the time to dust furs, &c., and to place 
bits of camphor in drawers and boxes. 

1146 |@^ Bran may be used for cleaning damask or 
chintz. It should be rubbed over them with a piece of 
flannel. 

1147 tS' ^ cu^ lemon kept on the washing-stand, and 
rubbed over the hands daily after washing, and not wiped 
off for some minutes, is the best remedy for chapped hands* 
Lemon juicCy or Salts of Lemony will clean Sponges perfectly. 

1148 i@^ Elder flowers y prepared in precisely the same 
manner as 1153, Ornish a very cooling ointment, for all 
kinds of local irritation, and especially for the skin when 
sun-bumU 

1149 j^* Conmion washing soda dissolved in water, 
until the liquid will take up no more, is an effective 
remedy for warts. Moisten the warts with it, and let 
them dry, without wiping. 

1150 8^ Bran watery or water in which bran has 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. 291 

been steeped, greatly improves bread, instead of plain 
water. The brwi may afterwards be given to fowls, or 
pigs. 

1151 J^g' After washings, looh over linen, and stitch on 
buttons, hooks and eyes. For this purpose keep a box or 
bag well supplied with sundry threads, cottons, buttons, 
hooks and eyes, &c. 

1152 1^^ It has been suggested that the sex of eggs may 
be determined by the situation of the air-cell ; but careful 
experiments have shown that no dependence can be put 
upon this criterion. 

1153 ^^ The leaf of the common dock, bruised and 
rubbed over the part affected, will cure the stings caused hy 
nettles. Leaves of sage, mint, or rosemary are also good 
for the same purpose. 

1154 1^^ Pudding cloths should never be washed with 
soap. They should be rinsed in clean water, dried, and be 
put away in a drawer, where they will be free from 
dust. 

1 155 1^^ Add a tea-spoonM of Alum, and a tea-spoonful 
of Salt, to each three gallons of Vinegar for Pickling, and 
immerse in it whole pepper, ginger root, and mixed spices, 
and it will be greatly improved. 

1156 l^* It is a great economy in serving DiViwer* to 
provide a plentiful supply of good vegetables, thoroughly 
hot. For which purpose they should not be served up all 
at once, but a reserve "to follow" should be the plan. 

1157 1^^ It is an error to wash weak children, in cold 
.water, with the view of strengthening them. The tempera- 
ture should be modified to their condition, and be lowered 
as they are found to improve. 

1158 |@^ Onions, eschalots, scallions, chives, garlic, and 
rocambole are pretty much the same, and may be substituted 
one for the other in many instances, as a matter of 
convenience or economy. 

1159 ^^For Soft Corns, dip a piece of linen rag in 



292 THB FAMILY SAYE-AXL, 

Turpentiney and wrap it round the toe on which the com is 
situated, night and morning. The relief will he immediate, 
and after a few days the com wiU disappear. 

1 160 B^ The Juice of an Onion will relieve the pain 
from a bee-sting ; dusting the blue from a washerwoman's 
*' blue bag " will have a similar effect The venom must 
first be pressed out. 

Oh ye hTulMindi and wives, deoeiTe not one another in small things nor in great. 
One little single lie has, befinre now, disturbed a whole married Iife--a small cause 
has often great consequences. Fold not the arms together, and tit idle. ** Lasinesi 
is the devil's cnshkm." Do not ran modi tnim home. One's own hearth is of mors 
worth than gold. Many amarriage begins like a rosy morning, and tlien &Us away 
like a snow wreath. And why? Because the married pair iMgleet to be as well- 
pleasing to each other alter marriage as before. Endeavour anrnrs to pleaaa one 
another ; 'but at the same time keep God in your thonghti. Lavidi not all your 
love on to-day, for remember that marriage has its to-morrow likewise, and its 
day after to-morrow, too. Spare, as one may say, fuel Ibr winter. Consider, ys 
daughters, what the word vM expresses. The married wmnan is the husband's 
domestic fidtb ; in her hand he must be able to intrust the key of his Ixeart, as well 
as the key of his pantry. His honour and liis home are under her kaephig—liii 
well-being in her hand. Think of this! And you, ye sons, be fUthftal huMsuds, 
and good fkthers of funHies. Act so that your wives shall esteem and love yoil. 



THB END, 



Somfleld & Jones, Printers, West fiarding Street, Fetter Lane, London. 



INDEX. 



ITie Numbers Refer to the Hints, or Paragraphs. 

A Good Imdsx is to a Book what a Est is to a Cabimst, or a Catilogcb to 
a Lebrabt. Without its aid. Articles of Oreat Worth might lie for ever hidden and 
useless, and Valuable Information, though near at hand, he practically fax awaj. 
The foUowfaig Table of Reference lias been prepared with scrapnlons care. It exhibits 
lit a glaace the whole of the Information presented upon any particular Subject, 
and shows tibe wide range of Useftil Matter embraced by the Volume. Let the 
Rkadkb, who wishes to turn the Savs-All to Practical Account, occasionally devote 
a spare half-hour to looking the Index through, and, Beferring to those Hints which 
may appear to be of pr^tnt uHUty, carry them into practice in the Hoii8SHoxj>, 
the Gabden, or the Fabx. 

ACORNS, a good Substitute for Coffee, 1119. 

ALB. — See Bebr. 

ANTS, Method of Destroying, 802. — See also Ibbects. 

APPLES, Jam that will Keep Five Tears, 537; Good for Gout, 564 ; 
Best Kinds for the Kitchen, 1019 ; for the Kitchen and Dessert, 
1020 ; for Dessert, 1021 ; Pips Good for Tarts and Dumplings. 

APRICOTS, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1024. 

ARSENIC In Paper Hangings, 567. 

ARTICHOKE STEMS as a Table Vegetable, 488. 

AUTUMN : Receipts and Hints Espbciallt Useful at this 
Season (September, October, November), 110, 126, 153, 156, 
176, 199, 339, 379 to 382, 391, 397, 398, 430, 456, 469 to 472, 
490, 491, 506, 509, 515, 523, 529, 536, 537, 555, 556, 573, 578, 
582, 591, 667, 668, 675, 686, 688, 691, 695, 696, 697, 702, 704, 
705, 706, 097, 722. 764, 778, 790, 793, 826, 1004, 1006 to 1017. 

BACON, Excellent Pudding, from Cold, with Veal, 2 ; with Cold Vege- 
tables warmed, 71; Hock of, in Pumpkin Soup, 418; Delicate 
Breakfast Rashers from Cold boiled; Best Method of Curing, 
785 to 789. 

BADGERS, Hints About, 8ia 

BASTINGS, Economy of, 435. 

BATH, Turkish, upon a Small Scale, 552. 

b 



X INDEX. 

BEANS, to IncreaBO their Produce, 605; Best KincU to Ciilti?ate, 
1038; French, Best Kinds, 1040; a Good Substitate for Cofiee, 
1068 ; Juice of Pods Good for Warts, 1096. 

BEDS for Poor Persons, 555; of Beech Leaves, 666; of Oat Chaff, 
556; of Spathe of Indian Com, 557 ; Management of Feathers, 
558 ; Airing Beds and Bedding, 559. 

BEEF, an Excellent Pudding from Cold Roast, 1 ; Hashed, with or 
without Bones, 3 ; Bones Broiled and Deyiled, 4 ; Minced, with 
Bread Sipx>et8, 5; Capital Dish from Fragments of Maw, 6; 
Snack from Bones, 7 ; with Poached or Fried Eggs, 8; with Pota- 
toes and Bone Gravy, 9; Nice Dish from Cold, with Mashed 
Potatoes, 10; Rissoles of Cold, 11 ; Rellshable Dish from Cold, 
with Poached Eggs, 12 ; Patties from Under-done, 18 ; Rolls or 
Pasties, 13 ; Steaks of Under-done, with Cold Cabbage or Pota- 
toes warmed, 15; Dish from Cold Beef and Carrots, 17 ; Break- 
&st. Luncheon, or Supper Relish, from Potted Cold Beef, 18 ; 
Family Dish from Cold Beef; with Mashed Potatoes and Flour, 20, 
21; Method of Be-cooking Cold Roast, 22; Cold Stewed Rump, 
Re-cooked, 23; Cold Under-done Sirloin, Be-cooked, 24; 
Broiled, with Mashisd or Fried Potatoes, 24 ; Fricassee from Frag- 
ments of Cold ; Egg Croquettes of Cold, 28 ; <' Bubble and 
Squeak" from CoM, 39; Curry, from Cold, 80; Meat Cakes of, 
91; Fritters o^ 92; <* Toad-in-the-Hole" from Cold, 94; Stew 
in a Frying Pan, with Stale Bread, 99; Dinner from Shin or Leg 
of, 102 ; Capital Dinner from Ox-Cheek, 103 ; Bones of, dressed 
with Rice, 104 ; Pasties from Cold, 159; Pie of Ox-Cheek and 
Tongue, 163; Pu& from Cold, 179; Stock from Boiled, for Pea 
Soup, 386; Brose of, 405. 

BEER, Fresh Small, as a Substitute for Eggs, 356 ; Brewed in a Tea 
Kettle, 573; to Prevent Turning Sour, 574; to Make Cottage, 
576; Table, 577; Spruce, 583; Ginger, 586; Nettle, 588; a 
Scale of Proportions of Ing^dients to be Used in Brewing, 790. 

BEES, Method of taking Honey, and Preserving the Bees, 709. 

BEET-ROOT, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1041. 

BISCUITS, Good for Puddings, 1058. 

BLACKBERRIES, Excellent Jam, 532; their Good Qualities are 
Overlooked, 535; Leaves and Roots Make a Good Tea, 1102. — See 

PRBSBRVBB. 

BLANC MANGE, Method of Re-serving, 367; Marbled Dish of 
Remnants, 309. 

BONES OF COLD MEAT, Useful Application of : Deviled Beef, 4; 
a Nice Snack from Beef, 7 ; Stewed with Potatoes, 9 ; Stewed for 
Gravies, 38 ; Veal Gravy^ 49; Stewed in Hashes^ 83; Bice, with 



INDEX. XI 

the Extract of, 104 ; Gravy from those of Fish, 438 ; Talnable for 
the Stock-pot, 374 ; Sauce from Beef, 389. 

BOOTS, Waterproof that will Stand Any Weather, 788, 797. 

BORBCOLE, Best Kinds to CnltiTate, 1042. 

BOTTLES aeaned with Small Ckwls, 1093. 

BRAINS, Various Methods of Cooking and Serving, 234; Brain Cakes 
235 ; Boiled, and served with Slices of Tongue, 236 ; or Spread oik 
Toast, 236; CoZtf Brain and Tongue made into a Pudding, 237, 
238; served with Calf's Head, 267; Beaten with Yolk of Egg, 
269. 

BRAN for Preserving Meat, 1090. 

BREAD, Uses for Pieces of Stale: for Bread Crumbs, 50; in a Meat 
Stew, 99; in a Pudding, 339; another Pudding, 340; another 
Pudding, 334 ; Puddhig from Stale Muffins, 358 ; in the Stock 
Pot, 374 ; in Soup, 387 ; with Fish, 446 ; Good Family Brown, 
Unfermented, 462; One-third the Cost of Saved, 649; *^ Setting 
Sponge" is a Bad Plan, 650; Excellent Bread of Rice, 651; 
Good from Sprouted Wheat, 652 ; Mixed Household, 654 ; Pud- 
ding from Spoiled, 656 ; other Uses for Stale, 659 ; Substitute for 
Alum in, 662 ; To Convert Stale again into New. 

BREAKFAST RELISHES, 7, 18, 35, 60, 76, 79, 86, 91, 110, 115, 
119, 126, 157, 163, 166, 168, 175, 189, 190, 224, 229, 246, 250, 
252, 258, 264, 274, 281, 284, 286, 298, 305, 307, 332, 335, 
438, 439, 444, 446, 448, 450, 453, 459. 

BREATHING, Important Hints upon, 567. 

BROCOLI, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1043. 

BROTH, a Gallon for Four-pence, 400 ; of Sheep's Head, 423. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1044. 

BUTTER, used to cover Potted Meats, 111 ; Economy of, 435; Im- 
proving Tainted, 612; by Chloride of Lime, 614; to Prevent 
Tasting of Turnips, 616 ; Method of Preserving for years, 618 ; to 
Restore when too Salt, 619 ; Economy in Butter and Cheese, 620 ; 
Buttermilk for Bread Making, 648 ; To Warm Cold Melted, 1120. 

BUTTERCUPS, to Prevent their Over-running Grass, 687. 

CABBAGE, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1045. 

CAKES of Potatoe Flour, 665; Luncheon, that will keep Six 
Months, 666, 

CALF'S FEET JELLY Re-served, 867. 

CANDLES, Ends of, converted into Night Lights, 551. 

CAPERS, Nasturtiums Substitute for, 511 ; Radish Pods, 512. 

CARROTS, Best Khids to Cultivate, 1046. 

CATTLE, FOOD FOR : Thistles chopped, 667 ; Compound Equal to 
any Of the Patented Foods, at one-fourth the Cost, 669; Barley 



XU INDEX. 

Mafih for Horses and Cows, 670 ; Damaged Wheat, proper mode 
of giving it, 673 ; Potatoe Leaves for Milch Cows, 675 ; Coal Ashes 
good for Pigs, 678; and Rotten Wood, 678; Pea Shells and 
Haulm Good for Horses and Pig^, 1104. 

CAULIFLOWERS, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1047. 

CAYENNE PEPPER, Superior Home Made, 479. 

CELERY, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1048; as a Flavouring, 1067. 

CEMENTS. — See Mbnding. 

CHARCOAL, Good for Fattening Turkeys and Fowls; for Cleaning 
Knives, 1125. 

CHEEKS.— 5ee Heads. 

CHEESE, Economy of, 620; Potatoes added to, 621 ; to Destroy Mitea 
and Jumpers in, 626 ; American Method of Preserving, 627 ; Kept 
Gtood by Oatmeal, IIOI. 

CHERRIES, Best Kinds for the Kitchen, 1022; for Dessert, 1024; 
Kernels of, Good for Flavouring, 1070. 

CHESTNUTS, Dye from Horse, 704; Flour from, 705; Good fer 
Puddings and Soups, 1059. 

CHILBLAINS, Potatoe Water Good for, 721. 

CHILDREN should not Sleep with Aged People, 565. 

CHINA. — See Mending. 

CHITTERLINGS, with Bacon and Calf's Udder, 69; Pig's, Fried with 

CHUTNEY, Best Substitute for, 432. [Onions, 331. 

CIDER, to Prevent turning Sour, 574 ; the Best Method of Makiag, 
582; Improves Apple Tarts, 1098. 

CLEANING CLOTHS, SILKS, &c, 909 ; Spots of Various Kinds, 
909, 915 to 922 ; Colours of Cloths, to Restore, 916 to 921; Ink 
Spots, 923 ; Preparation for Removing Various Stains, 924 ; Re- 
storing Gloss, 925; White Lace Veils, 926; Black LaceVeib, 
927 ; Black Lace, 928 ; Silk Lace or Blonde, 929; Thread Lace, 
930; Cleaning Lace, without Washing, 981; Crochet Collars, 
932 ; Gold Lace, 933 ; Gold Embroidery, 934 ; Ribbons^ Satins, 
Scar&, 935 ; Flowered Silks and White Satins, 937 ; Creased Rib- 
bons, 938; Ribbons and Other Silks, 989; Grease Spots from 
Silks, 940; Coloured or Black Silks, Stu£%, Moreens, Printed 
Cottons, and Chintzes, 941 ; Worsted Curtains, Carpets, &c., 
942; Silk Stockings, 944 ; Blondes and Gauzes, 945; Mousse- 
lines-de-Laine, 948, 947 ; Merinos, Ginghams, Chintzes^ Printed 
Lawns, 947 ; Coloured Articles, 948, 949 ; Black Crape, Mourn- 
ing, Bombazines, Qoth, &c., 950; Black Italian Crape, 951; 
China Crape Scarfs, 952; Washing Chintzes, 953; Bleachhig 
Faded Dresses, 954; Fruit Stains from Linen, 955; Mildew from 
Linen, 956; Linen Turned Yellow^ 957; Scorched, 958; Iron 



INDEX. Xlll 

Moulds from Linen, 959; Removing Markiqg Ink, 930; Com- 
mon Ink, 960 ; Grease from Velvet, 961 ; Raising the Pile of Tel- 
vet, 961 ; White Satin Shoes, 963 ; Improved Method of Washing 
Linen, 964 ; Calicoes Turned Yellow, 965 ; Washing with Lime, 
966; Rusty Black Clothes Revived, 967, 968; White or Coloured 
Kid Gloves, 969; White Kid Gloves, 971 ; Coloured Gloves, 972; 
Furs, 973 ; Sable, Chinchilla, Squirrel, Fitch, &c., 974 ; White 
Furs, Ermine, &c., 975, 976; Improvements of Furs^ 977; 
Preservation of Furs, 978. 

CLOTH.— ^66 Clbaning. 

CLOTH OF OLD CLOTHES, Uses for, 1073. 

CLOTHES LINES of Gutta Percha, 1081. 

COALS, How to Save Half the Usual Consumption, and yet have Im- 
proved Fires, 538; Ashes and Small Coals mixed, 543; Coke 
Recommended, 544; Cheap Fuel, 545; Economical Method of 
Storing Coals, 547 ; Ashes Good for Pigs, 674 ; Economy of Fuel 
in Heating Ovens, 790. 

COFFEE made to the Greatest Perfection, 605; Custards, 609; an 
Excellent Disinfectant, 688; and Fumigator, 690; Improved by 
Port Wine Sediment, 1057 ; Clarified by Sole Skins, 1124. 

COLD, Cure for Influenza, 562. — See Mbdicinb Chest. 

COLLARED Calf's Head, 274; Pig's Head, 281, 284, 285, 286.-'5ee 
Potted. 

COPPER in Liquids, to Detect, 1120. 

COUGH, French Remedy for, 560. — See Mbdicinb Chest. 

CRANBERRIES, to Cultivate, 772, 773. 

CREAM, Mock, 360; Method of Preserving, 368; proper Pans for 
Making, 624. 

CRESS, How to Obtain All the Tear, 481. 

CUCUMBERS, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1049; added to Soups 
Improve them, 1099. 

CURRANTS, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1025. 

CURRY POWDER, th6 Very Best, 477. 

CUSTARDS, Methods of Re-serving, 368; Tincture for Flavourings 
480; Tea, 608 ; Coffee, 609; Chocolate, 610. 

CUTS, Use of the Inner Membrane of Eggs for, 639. 

DEVILED Beef Bones, 4; Venison, 88; Fowl, Duck, Goose, Turkey, 
Meat, Bones, &c., 126. 

DINNERS, Family Econormcalj 1, 3, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 33, 36, 37, 
39, 40, 42, 45, 48, 49, 52, 53, 66, 57, 62, 64, 71, 73, 80, 89, 94, 
97, 99, 102, 103, 129, 132, 142, 144, 159, 166, 168, 174, 176, 178, 
181, 191, 192, 193, 194, 260, 261, 267, 268, 269, 271, 277, 278, 
279, 289, 290, 291, 292, 293, 314, 316, 329, 330, 335, 340, 342, 
343, 346. 



Xiv INDEX. 

DOGS, Economical Food for Sporting, kc, 776. 
DRIPPING, Economy of, 435, 436, 437. 

DUCKS, Deviled, 126 ; Hashed, 132, 144; Stewed with Red Cabbagej 
140; Warmed with Carrots, 141 ; Stewed with Peas, 142; Hashed 
Wild, 149; Ragout of WUd, 161; Soup from Giblets o^ 394 
Giblets added to Oz-tail Soup, 412. 

DUMPLINGS for a Family of Young Ones, 354. 

DYE from Horse Chestnuts, 704. 

EARS. — See Heads. 

EGKj^S, Snow as a Substitute for, 355 ; Small Beer, or Bottled Malt 
Liquors as a Substitute for, 356 ; Powdered Ice as a Substitute for, 
357; Delicious Pickle,- 509 ; Uses for Eggs not commonly Em- 
ployed, 628 ; the Inner Membrane Usefrd for Cuts, 629 ; How to 
Eat with Satisfaction, 630 ; Hints to Buy Good Eggs, 631 ; Should 
not be Eaten too Fresh, 632; should not be Boiled for Salads too 
Long, 633 ; Duck's are good for Puddings, 684 ; to Distinguish the 
Sex of, 635; Surprise Eggs for Parties, 636; Way to Keep Eggs, 
Fresh, 687; Rule in Breaking for Pastry, 639; Cheap and Fresh 
in Winter, 640; White of, a Substitute for Cream, 1084; White 
of, as a Clarifler, and as a Cement, 1097. 

ENDIVE, as a Table Vegetable, 499. 

ENTREES, or Entrembts. — See Sidb Dishbs. 

FAGGOTS, Economical Dish of Baked, 329. 

FARMERS, INYALUABLB HiNTs FOR, 506, 513, 537, 555, 578, 582, 
591, 596, 598, 600, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618, 619, 620, 
621, 622, 623, 624, 625, 635, 637, 652, 655, 667, 668, 669, 670, 
671, 672, 673, 674, 675, 676, 677, 678, 679, 682, 684, 687, 691, 
692, 693, 694, 707, 709, 710, 711, 712, 713, 714, 715, 716, 717, 
718, 720, 724, 738 to 749, 742 to 753, 757 to 760, 761, 762, 764, 
764, 767, 779, 780, 782, 785 to 789, 790, 797, 808, 804, 805 to 817, 
819 to 823, 824, 850 to 855 ; 856 to 858 ; 871, 872, 878 to 880. 

FEATHERS, to Prepare them for Use, 281. 

FEET, Pig's, Soused with the Head, 282 ; Pig's Stewed, with the Ears, 
283 ; Cow Heels Collared with Pig's Head, 286 ; Cow Heels Fried, 
296; Boiled, 297; Potted, 299; JeUies,299; for Mode Turtle and 
other Soups, 300 ; Calf's Feet Stewed, 301; Boiled, 302; Fried 
in Butter, 303; Braised, and served with Mashed Potatoes, 304; 
Potted, 305; for Jellies and Broths, 306; Pig's Feet Braised, 
307 ; Pickled and Boiled, 307 ; added to Stews, 308 ; Pig's Petti- 
toes Stewed, 309; Sheep's and Lambs' Feet Braised, 310; Boiled, 
311; added to Stews, 312; BoOedand Fried, 313; Nice Pudding 
of Calf's, 343 ; Capital Soup from Cow Heels, 402, 411 ; Calf's or 
Cow's in Pumpkin Soup, 418. 



INDEX. XV 

FILTER that Costs Nothi&g, 569. 

FIRES, AcciDBNTAL, Advico and Precautioiis Respectingy 725; 
Precautions to be Observed in Farms, 738 to 749 s a Simple Fire 
Escape, 750; to Manage Horses, in case of, 752; Method of 
Extinguishing in Chimneys, 753; to Render Female Dresses Fire- 
proof, 754 to 756. — See Coals. 

FISH, Cake from Sciraps of Coldf 438 ; Scolloped Cold Soles, Oidi 
Whitings, Smelts, &c., 439; to Remove the Muddy Flavour of 
Pond, 440; Pie from Cold Salmon or Mackerel, 441; Cold 
Mackerel and Veal, 442; Stew, that may be Eaten either Hot 
or Cold, 443; Forcemeat, 443; Cold Fried Soles warmed, 444 
in Beef Gravy, 445 ; Cold, served with Stale Bread, 446 
Mackerel Preserved when Cheap, to Keep a Long While, 448 
Winter Whitebait, an Excellent Dish of Sprats, 450 ; a Nice Dish 
of Cold Boiled Soles, 451 ; Stew of Cold Boiled Soles, Turbot, Brill, 
Plaice, Flounder, &c., 452 ; Relish from the Fragments of Lobster 
or Crab, 453 ; Oyster Patties, 454; to Dry and Smoke, 789. 

FLIES, to Catch and Destroy, 572, lOG^.—See also Insbcts. 

FLOUR from Horse Chestnuts, 705. 

FLOWERS that should be Cultivated Early in the Season for Bees, 

FOOD FOR CATTLE.— See Cattle. [1003. 

FORCEMEAT for Collared Head, 281; of Fish, 443. 

FOWLS, Excellent Pudding from Cold, 2; Egg Croquettes from Cold 
28 ; Method of Cooking Old, not fit for Roasting, 105 ; A Nice 
way of Warming Cold, 108; Scollops fr^m Cold Chickens, 112; 
Fricassee frx)m Cold, 114; Broiled Cold, lib; Necks, Feet, and 
Gizzards of, 116; Broiled and Deviled, 118; Sausages frt)m Cold 
Fowl, Turkey, &c. ; Hash from Cold Roast, 121 ; Warmed with 
Vegetables, 122; Delicate Dish fi^m Cold 125; Deviled, 126; 
Hashed, 132; Pulled Cold, 134; Patties from Cold, 135; Pie of 
Cold, 166 ; Stewed with Calves' Tails, 320; Stock from, for Soups, 
386 ; Warmed with Sauce, 472. 

FOXES, to Prevent their Destroying Poultry, 819. 

FRUIT, Method of Preserving while Growing, 697; Jam from. Without 
Sugar, 883.— /S^6 Presbryes. 

FRY, Excellent Dinner of Pig's, 330, 

FUEL. — See Coals. 

GAME, Excellent Pudding from Cold, 2; Egg Croquettes of Cold, 28; 
Method of Cooking Old Birds, &c, not fit for Roasting, 105; 
Cheap way of Potting Birds, 110; Hashed, 132; Important Hint 
upon Hashed, 146; Pasties from Cold, 159; Sauces for, 426; 
Capital Addition to Pies of, 471; warmed with Sauce^ 470 
kept Fresh in the Sporting Season by Cofibe, 688. 



XYI .Dn>BX. 

GARDENERS, INYALUABLB Hints for.— ^506, 611, 513, 514,516, 
536,537,578,582,691,593, 500, 597, 598, 600, 611, 640, 641, 
668, 680, 686, 696, 696, 697, 698, 699, 700, 701, 702, 709, 710, 
716, 717, 718, 720, 724, 764, 767, 769, 772, 774, 775, 777, 778, 
798, 802, 803, 804 to 817, 823, 836 to 849, 860 to 866, 866, 869 to 
870, 871, 872, 873 to 876, 878 to 880, 886 to 890; 1008, 1004, 
1005 to 1017, 1018 to lO66.^5e0 Inbbcts. 

GAS METERS, to Prevent Freezing, 1100. 

GLASS. — See Mending. 

GLASS STOPPER, to Loosen, 1117. 

GLOVES.— 5ce Cleaning. 

GLUE, LIQUID, for Household Reptdrs, 795, 796. 

GOATS, Usefulness of, 680. 

GOOSE, DevUed, 126; Hashed, 132, 144; Giblet Pie, 176; Puddings 
to be eaten with, 339; Soup from Giblets of, 394; Giblets added 
to Ox Tail Soup, 412. 

GOOSEBERRIES, Best Kinds for the Kitchen and Dessert, 1027. 

GOURDS, Best Kinds to Cultiyate, 1060. 

GOUT, Apples Good for, 564. 

GRAPES, Best Kinds to Cultivate.—- 5^ 592. 

GRAVY, Stock for all Kinds, 374; for Stews, Hashes, Minces, 
Haricots, &c, 31. 

GREASE-STAINS.— STm Cleaning.* 

GROUSE, Entree from Cold, 163 ; Capital Soups from Old, 399. 

GUINEA FOWL, Patties from Cold, 136. 

HAIR, the Best Wash for Cleansing and Promoting Growth o^ 570. 

HAM, with Cold Vegetables warmed, 71 ; Stock for Gravy from Bone 
of, 376; Stock from Shank Bone for Soups, 386; Knuckle of, in 
Pumpkin Soup, 418 ; to Dry and Smoke, 789. 

HARB, Hashed, 132; Patties from Cold, 136; Pasties from Cold, 169; 
Excellent Soup from Cold, or an Old, 398. 

HEADS AND CHEEKS, yarious Methods of Cooking and Serving, 
260; Ox, Stewed with Vegetables, 260; Stuffed and Baked, 261 ; 
with Forcemeat, 261 ; Raw or Cold made into '^ Toad-in-the-Hole," 
262; Liquor of Tongues, Usefrd Purposes for, 263; Fat from 
Tongues, uses for, 264 ; Cold Ox-cheek Potted, 266 ; Curried, 266 ; 
as << Bubble and Squeak," 39, 266; Calf's Head Plainly Boiled, 
267 ; Served with Cheek of Bacon, Sausages, or Pickled Pork, 
267 ; Browned in a Dutch Oven, 267 ; Boned, and Stewed with 
the Brains, 268; Roasted, 269; Stewed in Sauce, 270; Curried, 
271 ; Boiled and Roasted in Halves, 272 ; Calves' Ears Stewed, 
' 273; Collared, 274; in Soups, 276; Sheep's Head and Pluck 
Stewed, 277; Sheep's Head Boiled, 278; Lamb's Head and 



INDEX. XVll 

Pluck, 272; Grilled, 280; Browned in a Datch Oven, 280; 
Boned for Puddings, Pies, "Toad-in-the-Hole," &c., 280; 
Baked upon or under Potatoes, 280 ; Pig's Cheek Stuffed, 
Stewed, and Collared, 281 ; Pig's Head and Feet Soused, 282 ; 
Pig's Ears and Feet Stewed and Fried, 283; Pig's Head Pickled 
and Collared, 284, 285 ; Collared with Cow Heels, 286; Pig's Head 
or Cheek Baked upon Potatoes, 287 ; Pickled and Smoked, 287 ; 
as " Toad-in-the-Hole," 287 ; Capital Soup of Cold Ox, 406 ; 
Mock Turtle Soup of Calfs, 417 ; Capital Broth of Sheep's, 423. 

HEART, Various ways of Cooking and Be-cooking Ox, 181 ; Stewed, 
182; Broiled with Bacon, 183; Baked with Bacon, 184; with 
Kidney or Cow-heel, 185; Stuffed and Baked upon Potatoes, 186; 
Stuffed and Boiled, 187 ; Cold Hashed, 188 ; Sheep's, Lamb's, 
&c.. Stuffed in Paste, and Baked as Savoury Dumplings, 187. 

HEDGEHOGS, Hints About, 819. 

HEELS.— 5ee Feet. 

HERBS, to Preserve them with the Finest Flayour, 473. 

HINTS FOE Particulab Seasons — Btfer to Autumn, Spring, 

Summer, Winter. 
HONEY AND CASTOR OIL for Asthma, 1085. 
HORSES, Saw-dust an Excellent Bedding for, 682 ; to Prevent their Feet 

Balling with Snow, 692 ; Gutta Percha applied to Tender Feet, 693. 
ICE, Powdered, as a Substitute for Eggs, 356. 
INK-STAINS.— 5£fe Cleaning. 

INSECTS, Methods op Destroting — Wasps, 702, 792 to 794; 
Beetles and Cockroaches, 800, 801; Ants, 802; Turnip Fly, 804, 
807 ; Wire-worm, 806; Green Fly, 806, 817, 839; Black Cater- 
pillar, 810; White Turnip Butterfly, 811; Diamond Black 
Moth, 813; Leaf-Minmg Caterpillars, 813; Bean Fly, 814; 
Turnip Plant Louse, 817; Grubs and Worms among Mangel 
Wurzel, 818 ; Moths of all kinds, 836 ; Red Spider, 837, 838, 839 ; 
Scale, 839, 842; Thrips, 839; Aphides, 841; Mealy Bug, 842; 
Black Maggot, 844 ; American Blight, 847 ; Snails, 848 ; Slugs, 
849; Moths in Clothes, &c. 978; Wood Louse or Cheese-bug, 
1002. 

JAM. — See Preserves. 

KIDNEYS, Various ways of Cooking, 224; T'ried, 224; Mixed with 
Ox-heart and Baked, 225 ; as Scotch Kidney CoUops, 226; Veal 
Kidney chopped with Veal, &c., 227 ; Stewed, 228 ; Split and Broiled, 
229; on Toast, or on Slices of Bacon, 229; Fried, with Cham- 
pagne, or White Whie, 230; with Sheeps' Tails and Trotters, 
231 ; Pigs' Kidneys and Skirts, 232; in Puddings and Pies, 233. 



XVlll INDEX. 

LAMB, Method of Re-cooking Cold Roast, 22 ; Dish from Cold, with 
Cucumbers and Spinach, 62 ; Capital Method of serving a Cold 
Shoulder, 64; Ragout from Cold, 67; Cutlets from Cold, 69; 
Method of serving half-roasted Loin or Neckj 70 ; Toad-in- the- 
Hole from CoZd,94; Pasties from Cold, 189; Puffs from Cold, 119. 
The Vai'ioua Methods of Re-cooMng Lainh, are applicable to 
Mutton, 

LAMP SHADES, To Clean, 1137. 

LEAVES, Usefulness of Decayed, 885 to 890 ; Green, protect against 
Sun-Stroke, 1133. 

LEEKS, Good to Flavour Soups, 1061. 

LEMON JUICE for Bites of Gnats, 1080. 

LEMON, Tincture, 480 ; Peel Good for Flavourings, 1094. 

LETTUCES, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1051. 

LIQUOR OP BOILED MEATS, Uses for: of Ox Cheek, 263 ; CalPs 
Head, 276; Sheep's Head, 278; Pig's Heads or Cheeks, 288; 
Neck of Mutton or Lamb, 294 ; Cow-Heels, 299 ; of All Kinds, 
Useful for Stock, 374 ; of Calf s Head, Calfs Feet, or TaUs, Veal, 
or Mutton, for Soups, 378 ; from Beef Bones, Mutton, Beef, Pork, 
Poultry, Shank Bone of Ham, Root of a Tongue, Red Herring, 
&c., as Stock for Pea Soup, 386; Boiled Beef, 405. 

LIVER, Various ways of Cooking Ox, Calf, Shebp, and Lamb, 
Poultry, &c., 189 ; in a Pie with Cold Boiled Veal and Ham, 42; 
Broiled, 189; in Skin Puddings, 190; in Paste Puddings, 191; 
Fried with Bacon, 192; Broiled with Herbs, and Fried Bacon, 
193; Roasted, 194; Fried with Sliced Onions, 195; Stewed in 
Broth or Gravy, 19B ; Steeped in Vinegar and Fried, 197 ; Made 
into Stuffing, 198; as a Ragout, 199; Broiled with Sausages, 
199 ; made into Liver Sauce, 200 ; Fish Livers used in Sauces, 201. 

LUNCHEON RELISHES, 7, 11, 12, 13, 18, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30, 35, 
40, 43, 55, 56, 60, 67, 69, 71, 76, 76, 79, 86, 91, 92, 104, 108, 
110; 112, 114, 115, 119, 125, 126, 133, 151, 153, 157, 159, 
163, 166, 168, 175, 179, 189, 190, 199, 205, 209, 210, 212, 
213, 214, 216, 219, 220, 221, 222, 224, 226, 229, 231, 232, 
240, 246, 250, 252, 253, 258, 265, 274, 276, 281, 283, 284, 
286, 291, 298, 304, 305, 307, 323, 327, 332, 335, 438, 439, 
444, 446, 448, 453. 

MAGPIES, a Novel way of Killing them, 707. 

MANGEL WURZEL, Leaves of as a Table Vegetable, 487. 

MARMALADE of Carrots, 529. 

MARROW BONES, Methods of Serving, 240; BoUed, 240; Marrow 
Toast, 241; Baked with Batter, 242. 



INDEX. XIX 

MARROWS, VEGETABLE, To Grow in the Open Air, 860 to 866; 
An Excellent Substitute for, or Addition to Potatoes; 856 ; Method 
of Cooking, 857 ; for Fattening Pigs, 857. 

MATTING, To Oean Straw, 1130. 

MEDICINE CHEST of Homely Drugs, 898 ; Sage Tea, 898; Penny 
Royal Tea, 899 ; Ground Ivy, for Coughs, 900 ; Rose Water, &c., 
for Pains in the Head and Face, 901 ; Sliced Turnips for Child's 
Cough, 902; Cough Mixture, 903; Treatment of Bums, 904; 
Cuts, 905; Earache, 906; Sprains and Bruises, 906; White of 
Egg for Sprains, 907 ; Wash for Scurf in the Head, 908.— 5'ee 
Coughs, Colds, &c. Asthma, 1085; Warts, 1096, 1149; Dy- 
sentery, 1102; Bleeding from the Nose, 1106; Filling Decayed 
Teeth, 1115 ; Sun Stroke, 1133 ; Soft Corns, 1162 : Bee Stings, 2163. 

MELONS, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1028. 

MENDING CHINA, GLASS, &c.— Hints upon Applying Cements, 
979, 980 ; Uniting Glass or China, 981 ; Glass Joined by Garlic, 
992 ; by Quick Lime and White of Egg, 983 ; by White Lead, 
984 ; Cardboard, Paper, Fancy-work, &c., 986 ; Improved Flour 
Paste, 986 ; Paste to Resist Insects, 987 ; Rice Glue, 988 ; Plaster 
of Paris Figures, 989 ; Iron Kitchen Utensils, 990 ; Stone-work, 
Marble Mantel-pieces, Hearth Stones, Steps, &c., 991; China, 
Glass, Earthenware, 992; Improved Method of Melting Glue, 
993 ; Joining Leather to Qoth, 994 ; Glass to Metals, 995 ; Cover- 
ing Corks, 996. 

MICE, to Prevent their Destroying Peas, 767; to Destroy Field, 827; 
Mice in General, 829, 823. 

MILK, Soup, 416 ; How to Obtsdn the Largest Quantity from a Cow 
622 ; Zinc Pans should not be Used in a Daii7, 624 ; to Prevent 
its Turning Sour in Warm Weather, 625 ; Produced in Cows by 
Boiled Barley, 672 ; and by Potatoe Leaves, 675 ; Morning 
Better than Evening, 1060; Good for Invalids when Acid, 1089. 

MOLES, Hints about, 822, 823. 

MOOR FOWL, Stew from Cold Roasted, 152. 

MOTHS. — See Insects. 

MUFFINS, Nice Pudding from Stale, 358. 

MULBERRY JUICE, Improves Cider, 1071. 

MUSHROOM SPAWN, to Procure, 775 ; Constant Supply of Mush- 
rooms, 997 ; Hints upon Gathering, 1001 ; To Protect from Wood- 
Lice, 1002. 

MUTTON, Excellent Pudding from Cotd, 2; Dish from Cold, with 
Potatoes and Bone Gravy, 9 ; Rissoles of Coldf 11 ; Relishable 
Dish from Cold, 12; Method of He- cooking Cold Roast, 22; 



XX INDEX. 

Egg Croquettes of Cold, 28 ; Minced, with Mashed Potatoes, SO ; 
Hashed, with Herbs, 31 ; Family Dinner of Mutton, warmed with 
Sauce and Vegetables, 33; Sausages or Balls from Cold, 35; 
Hashed in a Homely but Savoury Way, 36 ; Hashed in the Style 
of Venison, 37 ; " Bubble and Squeak " from Cold, 39 ; Breast of 
Grilled, 40; Ragout from Cold, 68; Cutlets from Cold, 69; 
Method of Serving Half-roasted Loin or Neck, 70; Curry from 
Cold, 81; Meat-cakes of Cold, 91 ; Fritters of Cold, 92; *' Toad- 
in-the-Hole" from Cold, 94; Stew in a Frying-pan, with Stale 
Bread, 99 ; Bones of, dressed with Rice, 104 ; Pasties from Coldf 
159 ; Delicious Pie of Sheep's Head and Trotters, to be eaten cold, 
163; Puff^ from Cold, 179 ; Stock from Boiled for Pea Soup, 386; 
Cold, Warmed with Stale Bread, 447.— T^ Various Methods of 
He-cooHng Mutton are applicable to Lamb. 

NASTURTIUMS, a Substitute for Capers, 511. 

N£CKS, Various Methods of Cooking and Serving, 289 ; of Veal 
Stewed, 289 ; Boiled with Onion Sauce, 290; Stewed with Whole 
Rico, 290 ; Boiled, with Bacon and Greens, 290 ; Roasted, Broiled, 
or made into Pies, 290 ; of Mutton dressed as Cutlets, with 
Mashed Potatoes, 291; Stewed with Bacon, Turnips, &c., 292; 
Broiled with Dumplings, 293; Roasted, 294; or as Chops, 
Cutlets, Hashes, Stews, Pies, &c., 294; Lamb may be dressed 
the same way, 295. 

NECTARINES, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1029. 

NEEDLEWORK, Useful Hints Upon:— 1075, 1108, 1110, 1111, 1113, 
11-29, 1132, 1152. 

NETTLES as a Table Vegetable, 484; Good for Pigs, Cows, and 
Turkeys, 487. 

NIGHT-CAP Costing Nothing, 650. 

NIGHT-LIGHTS made from Ends of Candles, 551. 

NUTMEGS, Economical use of, 475; Tincture of, 476. 

ONIONS Good for Poultry, 677 ; Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1052 ; 
Parsley after Eating will Deodorise the Breath, 1092. 

OVENS, Economy of Fuel in Heating, 791. 

OYSTER SHELL, Useful in a Kettle, 1088. 

PAINT, The Smell of New, Removed, 1143. 

PALATES, a Nice Stew of Ox, 323; Fried with Herbs, 325; Pickled 
and Fried, 326; with Curry Sauce, 327; Stewed with Sweet- 
breads, 328. 

PAPER HANGINGS, Avoid those Containing Arsenic, 667. 

PARSLEY Good for the Breath after Onions, 1092. 



INDEX. XXI 

PARTRIDGES Hashed, 146; £ntr6e from Cold, 153; Capital Soup 
from Old, 397. 

PASTRY, Excellent Substitate for the Dyspeptic, 359. 

PATTIES from Under-done Beef, 13; from Cold Veal, Turkey, Fowl, 
Fowl and Ham, Pheasant, Guinea Fowl, Hare, Rabbit, Lobsters, 
Oysters, Shrimps, and Forcemeats, 135 to 139. 

PEA LEAVES and SHELLS as Substitutes for Green Peas, 381, 382. 

PEAS, to Increase their Produce, 695; Best Kinds .to Cultivate, 
1053. 

FEA TOPS as a Table Vegetable, 502. 

PEACHES, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1030. 

PEARS, Best Kinds for the Kitchen, 1031 ; Best Kinds to Cultivate in 
Small Gardens, 1032 to 1033. 

PEARS, Windfall, Excellent for Baking, 536. 

PERRY, to Make, 578. 

PHEASANTS, Method of Cooking Old, 105; Hashed, 132, 146; 
Patties from, 135; Entree from Cold, 153; Stewed with Arti- 
chokes, 156; Cure for the Croup in, 761. 

PICKLED Unripe Codlins, Damsons, Apricots, Peaches, Nectarines 
&c., 506 ; Effgs, 509 ; to Harden Pickles, 508; Crab Apples, 513 ; 
Vegetable Marrow, 514; Walnut Husks, 515; Salmon, that will 
Keep (rood for Twelve Months, 519 ; Savoury Relish of Sprats, 
521 ; Ditto of Oysters, 523 ; Pork, to Restore when Tainted, 527 ; 
Red Cabbage, 1122. 

PIES of Cold Boiled Veal and Ham, with Liver, 42 ; Cold Spare- 
rib of Pork, 90; of Sheep's Head and Trotters, 163; of Ox- 
Cheek and Tongue, 164 ; of Calf's Head, Tongue, and Brains, 
164 ; of Cold Roast Meat and Apples, 165 ; of Vea}, Chicken, 
and Ham, 166, 167; of the Remains of a Calf's Head, 
168; with Oysters and Mushrooms, 169; with Truffles, Morels, 
&c., 170; of Calf's Foot or Cow Heel, 172; Sea Pie, 174; of 
Pieces of Pork left after Tiimming Flitches, 175; of Goose 
Giblets, 176; West Country "Squab," 178; of Cold Salmon 
or Mackerel, 441 ; of Cold Mackerel with Veal, 442. 

PIG, Cold Roast, Be-coohed, 73; Another Method, 73; with 
Curried Crumbs and Sauce, 74 ; Entree from Cold Sucking, 75. 

PIG FEEDING, Coal Ashes Good for, 674 ; and Rotten Wood, 678 ; 
Pigs should be Taught to Eat Slowly, 679 ; Pig Keeping, the Best 
Season to Commence, 764 ; Best Mode of Fattening, 765 ; Method 
of Ascertaining the Weight of a Live Pig, 779; which Pays Best, 
Pork or Bacon, 780 ; Best Age to Fatten a Hog, 782 ; Food while 
Fattening, 782 ; Best Method of Curing Bacon, 785; Vegetable 
Marrows Excellent for Fattening, 858. 

C 



XXll INDRX. 

PIG MANURE, Economy of, with Coal Ashes, 873. 

PIGS, to KUl Vermin in, 876. 

PLOVERS and PEE- WITS, Breakfast, Lnncheon, or Sapper Relish 
from Cold, 157. 

PLUCK and Sheep's Head. *277 ; and Lamb's Head, 279. 

PLUMS, Best Kinds for the Kitchen, 1034; for Dessert, 1035ri<>r 
Kitchen and Dessert, 1036; Stones Good for FlaTOuring, 1095. 

PORK, << Bubble and Squeak" from Cold, 39; Cutlets Re^eookedf 
76 ; with Sage and Onion Sauce, 77 ; Cold Under-done, either 
Roasted or Boiled, 78 ; or as Rissoles, 78 ; Sausages from Cold, 
79 ; Curry from Cold, 81 ; Nice Dish from Cold Spare-rib, with 
Boiled Apples, 89 ; Standing Pie of, 90 ; Meat Cakes of Cold, 91 ; 
Fritters of Cold, 92 ; Pasties from Cold, 169 ; Pies of Pieces of 
Meat left after Trimming Flitches, 176 ; Pufik from Cold, 179; 
Stock from Boiled, for Pea Soup, 386 ; to Restore Tainted Pickled, 
627,—See Pio. 

POTATO DISEASE, a Certain Remedy for, 710; the Disease Arrested 
by Peat Charcoal, 722. 

POTATOES, Improving Seed, 716; to Grow Large, 718; Remedy for 
Frozen, 720 ; Method of Doubling a Crop, 724 ; Best Kinds to 
Cultivate, 1054 ; Cold, added to Peas Pudding, 1087 ; to Prevent 
from Sprouting in Spring, 1116; Taking Care of, 1126. 

POTATOES, Cold, Turned to Good Account: Mashed, 8, 10; 
with Flour, 21, 25, 30; Stewed with Gravy, 9; Fried, 16; in 
" Toad-in-the-Hole," 95; as Bread Crumbs, 113; as Pasties, or 
Sanders, 159; Pudding of, 346; Another Pudding of, 351; 
Served with Spinach or Cabbage, 492; to Improve those of Bad 
Quality, 492. — See also Vegetables. 

POTTED Cold Beef, 18; Tongues, 255; Ox-Cheek, 265 ; Cow Heels, 
298 ; Calf s Feet, 302. — Sea Collared. 

POULTRY, Hints upon Keeping, 640; Onions Good for, 677 ; Balance 
Sheet of Profit and Loss upon Fowls and Ducks, 757 ; Cayenne 
Pepper Good for, 758; Other Useful Hints, 759, 760; Cure for 
the Croup in, 761 ; Cause of the Pale Colour in Yolks, 762 ; Dust 
Bath for, 763; To Prevent Foxes from Destroying, 819; To Pre- 
pare Feathers for Domestic Use, 881. 

PRESERVED Marmalade of Carrots, 529; whole Strawberries, 631 ; 
Jam of Blackberries, 532 ; Apple Jam, that will keep Five Years 
537 ; Windfall Pears Baked, 536 ; Jam of Fruit, Made Without 
Sugar, 883. 

PUDDINGS from Cold Beef, Veal and Bacon, Mutton, Lamb, Fowls 
Rabbits, or Game, 1, 2; from Spoiled Bread, 656. 



INDEX. zxiii 



PUDDINGS, Excellent from Cold Roast Beef, I ; Excellent Black or 
White, 832; from Cold Calf's or Sheep's Brain and Tongue, 335 ; 
Cheap and Sayonry Herb ; Cheap, to Accompany a GkK>se, and 
Modify its Richness, 339 ; Savoury, from Fragments of Bread and 
Cold Meat, 340; of Sausage Meat, Cold Pork, Apples, and 
Onions, 342 ; Savoury or Sweet Dripping, 347 ; Excellent and 
Economical, from Cold and other Carrots, 349 ; Excellent Plum, 
350 ; Excellent Family, of Cold Potatoes and Eggs, j352 ; of Oat- 
meal, for Hearty Appetites, 352 ; with Snow as a Substitute for 
Eggs, 355; of the Petals of Primroses, 361 ; Substitute for Plum, 
362 ; Method of Serving and Warming Cold Plum, 371 ; Method 
of Re-cooking Cold Rice, 372. 

PUFF-BALL as a Table Vegetable, 490; for Stupifying Bees, 491. 

PUFFS from Cold Meat and Potatoes, 179. 

PUMPKINS, Soup of, 418; Dressed as Vegetables, 421 ; Pickled, 422. 

PYROLIGNEOUS ACID as a Substitute for Smoking Hams, Bacon, 
Tongues, Fish, &c., 789. 

RABBITS, Kxcellent Pudding from Cold, 2; Excellent Dish of, 
Stewed with Bacon and Onions, 129 ; Hashed, 132 ; Pasties from 
Cold, 161 ; served with Calves' Tails, 320. 

RADISHES Good Boiled as Asparagus, 1123. 

RAGS, Taking Care of, 1075. 

RASPBERRIES, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1037; Green, Good for 
Flavouring, 1118. 

RATS, Method of Preventing their Depredations in Com Stacks, 826 ; 
to Destroy, 829, 834, 835. 

RECEIPTS TO BE Tried at Particular Seasons.— i^^^sr to 
Autumn, Spring, Summer, Winter. 

RHEUMATISM, the Potatoe Remedy for, 563. 

RHUBARB LEAVES as a Table Vegetable, 504 ; dressed as Spinach, 
505. 

RICE, a Nice and Cheap Dish of, 353 ; to send to Table in the Finest 
Condition, 363; Method of serving Cold Pudding, 372; Bread 
of; 651. 

RYE, a Good Substitute for Coffee, 1064. 

SAGE LEAVES Added to Tea, 1079. 

SAGO, a Substitute for Pastry for the Dyspeptic, 359. 

SALADS, Best Methods of Producing Summer and Winter, 1005 ; 
Lettuces, 1006, 1007 ; Radishes, 1008; Beet-root, 1009; Celery, 
1010; Chervil, 1011; Tarragon, 1012; Endive, 1014; Chicory, 
1015; Nasturtium, 1016 ; Burnet, 1016. 

SAUCE, Wow-wow, 40; for Wild Fowl, 148 ; Liver, 200; Fish Liver, 
201; for Stewed Calf's Head, 270; Stock for, from a Ham 



XXlV IND£X. 

Bone, 376 ; for Cold Meats, Salads, Qravies, &c., 426; 
Horse-radish, 427 ; Cress, 428 ; Celery, 439 ', for Roast Pork, 
Pork Chops, or Wanned Cold Pork, 430 ; Substitute for India 
Chutney, 432 ; Oyster, when Oysters are Out of Season, 456 -, for 
Fish, Fowls, and Rump Steaks, &c. 458; an addition to Sand- 
wiches, 458; Celery for Soups, 462; Mint and other Vinegars, 
463 ; Mint, at any Season of the year, 467 ; for Lamb or Mutton 
Chops, 468 ; for Hashed Game, 469 ; Curry, 478 ; Nasturtiums, 
511. 

SAUSAGES from Cold Mutton or Lamb, 35; from Cold Pork, 79; 
Hash or Curry from Cold, 80 ; Liver, 155. 

SAVOY, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1055. 

SAW-DUST, an Excellent Bedding for Horses, Dogs, &c., 682; Good 
for Blanching Celery, 686. 

SEEDS, Number of, in a Given Quantity, and the Space they will 
Sow, 859 to 868. 

SHOES, Uses for Old, 1077. 

SIDE-DISHES, to help out " Family Dinners ;" 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 
12, 13, 15, 17, 22, 26, 28, 32, 36, 37, 39, 42, 45, 47, 49, 
52, 63, 65, 66, 62, 67, 69, 71, 76, 76, 78, 80, 83, 85, 86, 89, 
92, 94, 104, 108, 112, 114, 115, 121, 12^, 125, 126, 132, 134, 
135, 140, 141, 142, 144, 146, 151, 163, lb6, 159, 181, 182, 
184, 193, 199, 206, 209, 212, 214, 218, 219, 220, 222, 224, 
226, 228, 230, 231, 232, 235, 236, 248, 251, 263, 256, 273, 
280, 283, 301, 307, 318, 328, 346. 

SILK.— See Cleaning. 

SLEEP, the best Posture Durhig, 768. 

SNIPES, Excellent Method of Cooking, 106; Breakfast, Luncheon, 
or Supper Dish from Cold, 167. 

SNOW, as a Substitute for Eggs, 356. 

SOAP-SUDS AND ASHES as a Manure, 1082, 1086. 

SOOT, Valuable as Manure, 878 to 880. 

SOUP, Relishable without Meat, 376 ; Green Pea, without Meat, 377 ; 
Pea Soup, an inexpensive Rarity, when Green Peas cannot be 
Procured, 379 ; Pea Shells for, 382 ; Asparagus, 383 ; Asparagus 
Heads, added to Common Pea, 384 ; Plain Pea, 386 ; Pea with 
Stock from Bones of Roast Beef, or Liquor of Boiled Mutton, 
Beef, Pork, or Poultry, 386; from Shank Bone of Ham, Root 
of a Tongue, or Pieces of Red Herring, 386 ; Economical Carrot, 
387 ; Rhubarb Spring, 390 ; Excellent Celery, 391 ; of Endives, 
392; of LentUs, 393; of Goose or Duck Giblets, 394; of Old 
Partridges, 397; from Cow Heels, 402; Soyer's, for the Poor, 



INDEX. xxy 

403; Beef Brose, 406; Ox-Head, Soup from remains of Cold, 
406 ; of Ox-Tails, 409 ; Nourishing, from Ox-Heels, 411 ; of 
Onions, 413 ; Brown, without Meat, 414 ; White, without Meat, 
415 ; Nourishing Milk, 416 ; Mock Turtle, 417 ; of Calves TaUs, 
called Chesterfield, 425; Celery Flavour for all the Year through, 
462 ; Pottage of Pea Shells, 482; Cold Carrots added to, 403. 

SPONGES Cleaned by Buttermilk, 1136. 

SPRAINS. — See Mbdicinb Chest. 

SPRING: Rbcbipts and Hints Espbcially Useful at thi9 
Season {March, April, May), 105, 126, 141, 142, 166, 168, 
212 to 223, 251 to 259, 267 to 286, 289 to 294, 301 to 313, 
318 to 332, 349, 350, 361, 365, 377, 379 to 382, 383, 387, 390, 
392, 394, 473, 482, 484 to 487, 488, 489, 496, 499 to 501, 502, 
503, 504, 509, 516, 588, 597, 600, 611, 640, 687, 699, 767, 769, 
799, 805 to 818, 850 to 855, 856, 859 to 870, 871, 872, 859 
to 870; 1004, 1006 to 1017. 

STOCK, to Secure a Constant Supply of, as a Base for Gravies, Soups, 
&c., 374 ; from a Ham Bone, 375. 

STRAWBERRIES, Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1038. 

SUMMER : Receipts and Hints Espbcially Useful at this 
Season {June, July, August), 126, 140, 141, 142, 166, 168, 
176, 212 to 223, 251 to 259, 267 to 288, 289 to 294, 301 to 313, 
338, 349, 350, 377, 383, 387, 394, 430, 432, 448, 463, 467, 473, 482, 
488, 489, 490, 496, 499 to 501, 502, 503, 504, 506, 509, 511, 
514, 516, 517, 519, 522, 528, 531, 532 to 535, 572, 578, 582, 
586,593,594,595,596, 598, 611, 667, 668, 675, 682, 699, 710 
to 715, 716, 717, 722, 767, 826, 836, 871, 872; 1006 to 1017. 

SUPPER RELISHES, 7, 11, 12, 13, 18, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30, 35, 40, 43, 
55, 56, 60, 67, 69, 71, 75, 76, 79, 86, 91, 92, 104, 108, 110, 112, 
114, 115, 119, 125, 126, 133, 151, 153, 157, 159, 163, 166, 168, 175, 
179, 189, 190, 199, 202, 205, 208, 209, 210, 212, 213, 214, 216, 219, 
220, 221, 222, 224, 226, 229, 231, 232, 240, 246, 250, 252, 253, 258, 
265, 274, 276, 281, 283, 284, 286, 291, 298, 304, 305, 307, 323, 327, 
332,335, 372, 404, 438, 439, 444, 446, 448, 450, 453, 454, 461. 

SWEETS, Various Methods of He-serving, and other Table Delicacies, 
366. 

SWEETBREADS, Various Ways of Cooking, 212; Roasted, 212; 
Broiled, 213; Fricassee, 214, 215; Made into a Pie, 216; in a Pie 
with Potatoes, 217; Stewed with Potatoes, 218; Stuffed and 
Stewed, 219 ; Cold, made into Croquettes, 220 ; as Rissoles, 221 ; 
as Scallops, 222 ; as an Addition to Ragouts and Fricassees, 223 ; 
with Calfs Head Pie, 223. 



XXTl INDEX. 

TAILS, Various Uses of: Ox Stewed, 314, 316; Baked, 315 ; for Soup, 
317; Calf's Tails, Stewed, 318; with Bacon and Dumplings, 
319 ; added to Stews, 320 ; Wanned with Cold Fbwl, Rabbit, &c., 
320; Curried, 322; Economical Soup of Ox, 409; Calves' added 
to Ox Heels in Soup, 412 ; Soup from Calves', 425. 

TARTS, to Reserve Remnants o^ 370; to Serve the Remains of 
Apple, 373. 

TEA, the Best Method of Making, (K)l ; the Luf^ves of the Holly an 
Ag^eable Addition to, COS ; of Agrimony, 604 ; Custards, 608 ; the 
Strawberry Leaf, a Substitute for Green, 611 ; Improved by 
Carbonate of Soda, 1091. 

TEAL, Hashed, 149 ; Ragout of, 151. 

THISTLE as a Table Vegetable, 489. 

THISTLES, Chopped, Good for Cattle, 667; Method of Destroying, 
668. 

TONGUES, Various Methods of Cooking and Serving, 243 ; Stewed, 
243 ; Roasted with the Udder, 244 ; Baked with Parmesan Cheese, 
245 ; Boiled Plainly, 246 ; Served with Rice, Spinach, or Mashed 
Turnip, 246 ; Baked with Bacon and Cow-heel, 247 ; Stewed with 
Vegetables and Dumplings, 248 ; Roasted and Served with Currant 
Jelly, 249; Boiled in a Mould, 250; Neat's Tongue Spiced and 
Served with Sweet-sauce, 251 ; or Larded, 252 ; Pigs' and Sheep's 
Tongues Stewed, 253; to Keep Pickled Long, 254; Roots o^ 
Cold Tongues with Greens, 255 ; or Potted, 255 ; or Added to Pea 
Soup, Stew, or Scotch Kale, 255 ; slices of Cold Warmed in Savoury 
Sauce, 256 ; Tips of Tongues Dried, and Grated over Omelettes, 
257 ; Remains of Pickled, prepared as Collared Meat, 258 ; Frag- 
ments of Coldf made into Puddings, 259 ; Stock from Root of for 
Soup, 386. 

TRIPE, Various Ways of Cooking, 202 ; Boiled with Onions, 203 ; 
Boiled Plainly, with Onion Sauce, or in Gravy, 204 ; with Beef 
Bone or Veal Shank, 204 ; Fried in Egg and Bread Crumbs, 205 ; 
in Butter, 205 ; Broiled, 206; Roasted, 207 ; Made into a Pie with 
Ham or Beef Steaks, 208; Curried, 209; with Fried Sausages, or • 
Rashers of Bacon, 211. 

TURKEY, Deviled, 126 ; Hashed, 132 ; PuUed Cold, 134 ; Patties tpom 
Coldf 186. 

TURNIP FLY, Method of Destroying, 803.— 5'ce also Imbects. 
TURNIP PEEL, Good to Flavour Soups, 1065. 

UDDER, Calf's, with Chitteriuigs, 59; Roasted with Ox Tongue, 244; 

for Forcemeats, 322. 
VEAL, Rissoles of Cold, 11; Egg Croquettes of Cold, 28; Breast of 



INDEX. ZXVll 

Grilled, 40 ; Ragout of Coldt 44 ; Haricot from CoU Neck, 45 ; 
Minced with Fowl, and served on Sippets, 47 ; Nice way of i?«- 
cooking Cold, 48; Minced, with Gravy from the Bones, 49; 
Scalloped, with Bread Crnmbs, 60 ; Stewed with Mushrooms, 51 ; 
Hashed, 52 ; Another Hash of, 53 ; Neck, Breast, Knuckle, and 
Feet, Hashed, 54 ; Fricassee of Cald^ 55 ; Re-cooking Cold with 
White Sauce, 56 ; Roasted, Be-cooked, 57 ; Curry from Cold, 81 ; 
Meat Cakes of Cold, 91 ; Fritters of Cold, 92 ; " Toad-in-the-Hole" 
from Cold, 94 ; Bones of, Dressed with Rice, 104 ; a Nice way of 
Warming Cold, 108; Nice Scollops of Cold, 113; Sausages from 
Cold, 119; Delicate Dishfrvm Cold, 125; Pasties from Cold, 159; 
Pies of Cold, 166;.Puffb from Cold, 179; Bone of Knuckle for 
Soup, 395 ; Cutlets added to Ox Heel Soup, 412 ; Knuckle of, in 
Pumpkin Soup, 418 ; Cold, in a Pie with Mackerel, 442. 

VEGETABLES, Methods of Using Cold: Cabbage Served with 
Steaks, 16 ; Carrots with Beef, 17 ; as << Bubble and Squeak,'' 39 
Mixed with other Vegetables, 71 ; Cauliflower or Brocoli, 71 
Peas and Beans with '* Toad-in-the-Hole,'' 96 ; Pudding of, 349 
Plum Pudding of, 350; in the Stock Pot, 374; Parsnips in the 
Stock Pot, 374 ; Onions, in the Stock Pot, 374, 493 ; in Soups, 
387; Best Kinds to Cultivate, 1018. — See also Potatoes. 

VENISON, Hash from Cold, 83; Improved by Mutton Fat, 84; Stew 

from Cold, 85; Pasty from Cold,^', Deviled, 88; Meat Cakes of 

Cold, 91 ; Fritters of Cold, 92 ; Pasties, or Sanders, from Cold^ 

169. 
VINEGAR, Mint and Other, 463; to Obtain a Constant Supply 

of Pure, 464; Vinegar Plant, 465; from Gooseberries, 516; 

Raspberry, 517. 
WASHING, Invaluable Hint for Diminishing the Labour of, 548; 

Wood Ashes Good for Softening Water, 1062. 
WASPS, Methods of Destroyhig their Nests, 702 ; to Divert them from 

Fruit, 703; Another Method of Finding and Destroying their 

Nests, 792 to 794. 

WATER-CRESSES, a Nice and Novel Dish of, 496 ; a Substitute for 
Parsley, 497 ; Good for the Consumptive, 498 ; to Cultivate them 
in the Garden, 769 to 771. 

WEEDS, Best Method of Destroying in Roads and Walks, 699. 

WHEAT, Sprouted, Good for Bread, 652; and for Seed, 655; 
Advantages of Salting in the Mow, 691 ; Poisoned for Mice 
and Small Birds, 833; as a Substitute for Coffee, 1072. 

WILD DUCK Hashed, 149; Ragout of, 151. 



XXVIU INDEX. 

WINE, Pannip the Best Home Made, 591 ; from Grape Leaves, 592 ; 
the Best Mode of Making Elder, 595; Rhubarb, 597; Ckiltsfoot, 
598; Cowslip, 600. 

WINTER: Rbcbipts and Hints Espbciallt Usbfdl at thi& 
Sbason (December, January, February), 105, 126, 132, 134, 
135, 151, 153, 156, 157|t. 176, 177, 199, 202 to 211, 224 to 
233, 260, 296 to 300, 314 to 317, 339, 355 to 357, 379 to 38^, 
391, 394, 397, 398, 427, 450, 456, 469 to 472, 518, 521, 523, 538 
to 547, 687, 640, 685, 692 to 694, 720, 721, 778, 797, 1006 
to 1017, 1100. 

WOODCOCKS, Excellent Method of Cooking, 106; Breakfast, 
Luncheon or Sapper Relish, from Cold, 157. 

WOODEN SPOONS Best in Cookery, 1088. 

ZESTS. — See Saucbs. 



THE MULTUM IN PARVO SERIES. 

Sixpence each. 



1. " Out with Tliem." 

Means of DriTing Living ^I^ts firom the HouBehold. 

2. " Friends, and Foes." 

Or What to Preserve and What to Destroy, in Gardens 
and Farms. 

3. The " Ball of Flour." 

Improved Culture of the Potatoe, with an Unfailing Remedy 
for the Potatoe Disease; and Hints upon the Cookery of 
Potatoes. 

4. " Garden Novelties." 

Improvements in Oarden Cultivation, recently introduced. 

5. "Eggs and Bacon." 

The Profitable Management of Pigs and Poultry. 

6. " Food for Cattle." ' 

The New System of Condimental Feeding, with Instructions 
How to Compound the J?ood. 

7. "A Trap to Catch a Perfume." 

Methods of Extracting and Retaining the Odours of Flowers. 

8. « Knife and Fork." 

Dinner Arrangements for a Tear, with a few Novelties, or 
Surprise Di&es. 

9. " From Kitchen to Garret." 

A Walk through the House, with Practical Hints for Setting 
All Things in Order. 

10. "Bane and Antidote." 

The Best Six Remedies for the Worst Six Disorders : — 1. Oout. 
2. Rheumatism. 3. Indigestion. 4. Biliousness. 5. Head- 
ache. 6. Toothache. 

11. "Births, Marriages, and Deaths." 

Hints upon the Etiquette, and the Household Duties relating 
to them. 

12. " A Stitch in Tune." 

The Care and Economy of Clothing and Textile Furniture, 
of Every Description. 

<* It's Neyer too Late to Mend." 

13. " Six-and-Eightpence." 

Two Hundred Questions in Law clearly Answered. 

London : 
W. KENT & Co., 23, PATERNOSTER ROW. 



FROM THE "ATHENJEUM." 

** We recommend this work for keeping the promise of its Title- 
page. The demon of Cold Mutton is effbctoally exorcis)Ml from the 
domestic table; and if the Wife has only the geilias for following 
good advice, no Husband can henceforth have an excuse for dining 
at his Club — nor will the wife, even on a washing day^ have any 
plea for not producing a good dinner. The Family.- Receipts are 
garnished with sippets of wise apotheg^ms, or seasoned • witihi the 
salt of lively anecdote; and there. is an Appendix of instructions 
how to repair or obviate every damage that may attaint the 
perfectness of the household . goods, from chipped mantel-pieces to 
broken china or. &ded curtains; whilst there is abundant comfort 
prepared for other small evils. 'The Family Save-all' will be an 
invaluable work, if it meets with an intelligent Reader.' 



tt 



• * 






• • 



vV-- • • • 






• 4 



• r 



^'*.- 



i* r 



\. 



• # 



T._^ 



..». 



I: 



»• • 



♦ ? 






«# 



*• J 



*• 



4 % » 



•■ i 



■ »' 






% .t 






-1 
V. 



■ ■^ 




vV.' • • • 



«^« 



r 



. A 



• r 



V 



n 9 



* 



^. 






•JN^ 



* • 






* »' ^ 



« ' 



• f 



'»* 



«* 









4 % 









. . > 



/ • 



^M 



■^ . -f 







