% 



h44 



'^•mM 






wmf^r 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 



PRESENTED BY 

PROF. CHARLES A. KOFOID AND 

MRS. PRUDENCE W. KOFOID 



vScalo ry/Y/r/fff//f'r/ /o //o/f/w r//f/^/ J/f///f/rs 

x/fon///ry //rff ///i\' />/</r.s//o/f f// o/'r///tr//\{rf//(//^fv/fff//o/f/.) 



^\»^elal)l(' I'ood 



Xftcff/fts/i orfri'cen (hnt (^Bcftris 

()t'(inf/e Cftfrof fjoHecf 
Fresh' ir/Nft/ /irrrtr/ 

Tiw/ii/is h(>/7c(/ 

///■ff/f Soil /J Af//)/c' DunipffTtf/ 
(hr/i CaA'r hakef? 

(Vf.i'frf/'ff hftker/ 

Ht a IIS hoi Iff f /If/Ay .i/w/ff/r 
/\/fsiff/js,/r/s/t Pofatoes rofts/cff 
CftMu/f/r A' l}ftrf/rtr. rfnr,Jjff/cef/. 

Tftfjforrt . /wf'/rf/ Bfti'trr 
Smjo 

/}f//'//'y Soup, .ifi/ifrs Sftrr/ fan' 





Animal Food <S: Fish. 

7('/tf/o/t Iwf/rf/ 
.Siicf />Vv/' 

}'e(r/ /'/'Iff/ 

LS'iHf J//f//o/i 
yjirjr/,- /r'f/ .fi /rrf/t 

\JJiirA' fOftstefl 
yJcff/ broih-ff 

foufs /Jonif'sh'r hoiteff 

{S(t//rKj/t hffi/r//. /irr/' /t'/rf/ 
K(/// hfU'f/ f/oift'ff . /'r/fff 
B'i'rNerJ/r/f4-f/, r/irrsr 

^fitf/on .S\m/t (h'sUr- S'oii/p 

i.S'(tff.S(if/e /i'f's/t /ivrrl 

l/Vo/f/f'r/c/- .. 

XCfifJ'ish 

i Oystrrs /h'sh I'oristcf/ 

li'or-/,- rrrrntly snifecf 

\Po/'/.' S/rr/A' 

iK'f/f/s so/'f lioi'ff'fi. S'cft /jff.v.v fiT'oi/rd 
H'oastvii FWsh Beer 
BeerS'teak. Pofh 
(7iieke/i /'Wretssef/ Sal/ Bee/' 

(h'sfcfs rrnr 

( "fur/t-in*/ Pi</. Zft/ii'i h roiled 
\ litr/cies nr// t'Ofisfee/. -//'//fes 

J/i/A'. rah' f^y/f/'f /)'r,s'/t 
Bee/sXirri' /troi/ff/ 
J^ffmjf .Ini/iKt/ /tof/f'ft 
Venison S/crfA' /ffoi/rf/ 
h^f/as )i/>ipper/ ran: 
Dip' /erf. Sot /see/ Trfpv ' 



Xulnlivc Mallej-. //^ //rr/////\' p/r^rsf/o/f rjr/rrfr/rr/ 



Boites' b I ' Pnpirts rlif/c.sleT 

Bre/' 

} ffd 

Pm-h- 

Co fl Fish \ 

Sole ) 

Brain 

ITftflffnrk 

fiJfiir Eyf^s 

Milk 




.710 
200 
27 O 
20O 
2on 
'HO 

2/0 

200 

J80 

JIO 

72 



0.30 
f>20 
8fJO 
HiiO 
800 
70L> 
742 
GoO 
."i/o 
290 
270 

2(kj 

260 
2:/) 
WO 

no 

160 

100 

OH 

7:i 
12 
:io 

2.J 



Vosiolahles tS: riiiils 



n7,rrri 

I>as A- l>i\ Xf//s 1 

BrrrJn- 

Hcff/tx f/ry 

Pier 

Prrr/r7 

Rvf 

Orf/s 

Afmofff/s 

Tffr/tf/ri/tr/.v 

7*/ii/iis 

Gj'ftnes 
i^ifj/rro/.s 
\Pofff7oes 

Prr/r/ffs 

r/trrrirs 

fkm-srijrrrif.'i (V ('iwrft/i/.s 

Pi-arvi 

Brrf.s- 

.St I'ft niter -fics' 

Cfirfoi.'i 

CfiMjfffie 

T/r/7fi/x<{ 

. )7e/o//.Y 

f'/rei/fttijef.s- 



\>^- 



DIET 



FOR THE 



SICK AND CONVALESCENT, 



By 



E. NEAL, M.D., A.L.S., 

UNIVERSITY OF PEXXSTLVAXIA, 



I.XBOCTI DISCA.NT, ET A.ME.VT MEMINESSE DOCTI 



PHILADELPHIA: 
JAMES C HALL EX & SON 

18G1. 



Entered, according to Act of CoDgress. in the year 1860, by 

JAMES CHALLEN & SON, 

iu the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern 

District of Pennsylvania. 



STEREOTYPED BY J. PAGAN PRINTED BY I. ASIIMEAD. 




ebic;iti0it. 



To my many ^ledical Friends Physicians ; and former Class- 
mates; to the Medical Students of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania, and Jeflferson Medical College, and those "who were onco 
my Office Pupils : to the Mothers, Sisters, and Nurses whom I 
have met around the bed of sickness ; and to all my Patients, 
who have entrusted to me their health and lives, I humbly 
dedicate this little Volume, trusting it will aid them, with the 
Divine blessing, in the prosecution of an arduous Profession : 
and assist them in restoring Health to the Sick, and Hope 
and Comfort to the Convalescent. 



(iii) 



Wi?A£907 



/ 



PREFACE. 



'' It is the duty of the physician/' says the learned 
Dr. Hooper, in his Princi'ples and Fraetice of Medi- 
cine, " not to cure disease by physic alone ; but where 
Diet is equally efficacious with medicine, it should 
always have the preference." 

There is one rule always to be observed in giving 
nourishment to the sick — never to direct too much to 
be given at once, but frequently to repeat a small 
portion. '^ Often, but little at a time," should be an 
adage with those who attend upon the sick and ad- 
minister their food; lest, in cases of great prostra- 
tion, life may be endangered by overloading a stomach 
greatly depressed by previous abstinence from food, 
or forms of low fever. 

The physician is frequently called upon to give 
directions for the preparation of the Diet for the Sick 
and Convalescent under his care. To meet the wants 
of such cases, this little volume has been compiled 
from the best authors upon the subject, and such plain 
rules adopted as to put it within the reach of all 

(v) 



vi Pre f .\ c e . 

those who attend upon the sick, to make such dishes 
as may be palatable, and a.t the same time nutritious. 
Nurses are supposed to know how to prepare food for 
the sick ; but even they may, and often do, consult 
the attending physician in regard to preparing the 
food which is to enter so largely into the means em- 
ployed for the entire convalescence of his patient. 

In most diseases to which the human family is sub- 
ject, some regulation of the diet, or mode of taking 
food, is absolutely required. The functional derange- 
ment of the stomach called '^^norexia," or loss of ap- 
petite, attendant upon almost all severe diseases, es- 
pecially those of an inflammatory, or febrile character, 
require especial attention. This loss of appetite is 
always accompanied by a loss of power to digest 
food ; and indicates either too long an entire absti- 
nence from food, in which the tone of the stomach 
has been lost, or the accumulation of foreio;n sub- 
stances upon the mucous inembrane. Patients should 
be allowed such food, during an attack of disease, as 
is suited to their age and condition. This caution 
requires to be observed more especially in diseases of 
children, the stomachs of whom are easily disordered : 
hence solid food is apt to disagree with young chil- 
dren, and lay the foundation of severe constitutional 
disease. A nourishing diet should be prescribed for 
the convalescent, which would be highly improper for 
a patient laboring under a severe or constitutional 
affection. Hence a diet containina: little or no nutri- 



Preface. vii 

ment is proper for the sick during the paroxysm of 
disease, and is called Antiphlogistic, or low diet. 
Such is gum, starch, sugar, and the juice of ripe 
fruits, jellies, and acidulated drinks. 

The Second Class are substances of the vegetable 
kingdom, consisting of albumen, gluten, and fixed 
oils. 

The Third Class — still higher — is a Milk Diet, par- 
ticularly cream, which may be allowed to the sick 
when entirely free from disease, but suffering from 
the debility consequent upon his sickness. 

Fourth Class consists of e^o-s — intermediate be- 
tween a vegetable and a full animal diet, and contain- 
ing minute proportions of Sulphur and Phosphorus. 

Fifth Class comprises animal substances highly 
stimulating; and when absorbed, produces an aug- 
mented richness in the blood. These, to2;ether with 
the malt liquors, wines, and other stimulating drinks, 
serve to promote a vigor and give tonacity to the de- 
bilitated constitution after an attack of disease. 

The authors consulted in the compilation of this 
work have been the treatises of Professors Pereira, 
of the London University, Wood, of the University 
of Pennsylvania, and others, whose names, in brack- 
ets, will be found in the body of this work. 

The Scale, as a frontispiece^ shows the time 
usually employed in healthy digestion, in the stomach, 
generally denominated ''Chymification ;" but the di- 
gestibihty of foods is aftected by circumstances relat- 



VI 11 i'llEFACE. 

ing to the individual: as the state of hudy and mind ; 
habits ; the interval that has elapsed since the last 
meal ; the keenness of the appetite ; the amount of 
exercise taken before or after eating, and the quantity 
of food swallowed at one meal, are circumstances 
which aifect digestion. Violent anger, for example, 
disturbs the process, and gives rise to bile in the sto- 
mach. In fevers, where there is dryness of the mouth, 
and thirst, little or no gastric juice is secreted ; hence 
the propriety of withholding food is very obvious. 

The other plate shows the Nutritive Qualities of 
Food. Cucumbers, thus placed at the foot of the list, 
and marked 25, shows that 975 parts in 1.000 are 
waste. The other, being taken up and carried into 
the circulation, forms a part of the animal economy. 
And wheat, marked 950, shows that that amount is 
nutritive, while only 50 parts are waste ; hence it is 
called the '^stafF of life." 

Food has thus been arrano^ed into five classes — 
from the least irritating, to the more nutritive or 
stimulant. It will thus be found to simplify the whole 
subject, and render practical and useful all the details 
herein set forth. 

A copious Index and Glossary is added, of such 
terms as are not in common use, and will, the author 
hopes, be found very useful. 

E. Neal, M. D. 
Philadelphia, 923 Chestnut Street. 



DIET 



THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 



ANTIPHLOGISTIC DIET. 

First Class, and lowest in the scale, are vege- 
table substances devoid of irritating properties, 
and consisting of gum, starch, and sugar, in the 
form of liquids. 

a U M W A T E R , ( Gum Acacia,) 

Is best prepared by dissolving an ounce of Gum 
Arabic in a pint of ])oiling water, and allowing it 
to stand till cool. 

It is nutritious, and adapted to the highest state 
of scastric irritation. 

IX FT SIC X OF SLIPPERY ELM. ( ClmnH.) 

Take of the bark, sliced and bruised, one ounce; 
boilins: water, one i)int. Macerate in a covered 
vessel for two hours, and strain. 



8 D I E T F K T H E 

INFUSION OF SASSAFRAS PITH. {Medulla Sassefraa.) 

Take of sassafras pith one drachm ; cold water, 
one pint. Macerate for three hours, and strain. 

INFUSION OF BENNE LEAVES. {Sesame Folia.) 

One or two of the fresh leaves, stirred ahont in 
half a pint of cool water, will soon render it suffi- 
ciently viscid ; forming a rich, hland mucilage, 
much used as a drink in various complaints in 
which demulcents are applicable. If the leaves are 
dried, hot water should be used. 

CANNA. 

This is the fecula of the root canna eduUs. Under 
the French name, " tous les mois,'' this food was a fe^v 
years since introduced into this country. It is pre- 
pared in the West India Islands. One ounce, dis- 
solved in a pint of boiling water, makes a nuti'itious 
and wholesome food for infants or invalids. 

It is said to form even a stifiei* jelly than that ot 
arrow-root. 



Sick and Convalescent. 9 

TAPIOCA, (Janipha Manihot,) 

The starch-grains of a South American phmt, 
forms an excellent diet for the sick and convales- 
cent, and is prepared by boiling a tablespoonful in 
a pint of water, till thoroughly dissolved, and sea- 
soning with sugar and nutmeg, or other spices. 

IRISH MOSS. (Chondnti.) 

A plant growing on the southern and western 
coasts of Ireland, but also a native of the United 
States. It is prepared by boiling in one pint and a 
half of water, down to one pint, half an ounce of 
the moss. Sugar and lemon-juice is then added, 
to improve the flavor ; having flrst macerated the 
moss in cool water for ten minutes previous to 
boiling. 

ARROW-ROOT, {.Varanta,) 

Is prepared by dissolving it in hot water, Avith 
which it forms a gelatinous solution, and, if in suf- 
ficient quantity, a jelly-like mass, on cooling. A 
tables[»oonful is sufficient for a pint of water. It 



10 Diet fur the 

.should first be forniod inio ii paste with ii little eold 
water, and then the ])()ilinii; water added, with brisk 
agitation. It may be rendered more palatable by 
the addition of lemon-juice and sugar, or spice and 
wine, if not contra-indicated. 

SAGO {Sai/un luniiphii) 

Is nutritive, easily digested, and wholly destitute 
of irritating properties. It is given in the liquid 
state, care being taken to boil it long in water, and 
stir it constantly, that it may be thoroughly dis- 
solved. A tablespoonful to a pint of Avater is suf- 
ficient for ordinary purposes, seasoned Avitli sugar, 
imtmeg, or other spice — sometimes, but not always, 
with wine. 

BARLEY-WATER {Horde urn) 

Is prepared b}- using two ounces of pearl barley, 
having first washed it, to free it from extraneous 
matters. Boil with half a pint of water for a short 
time ; then strain, and throwing away the first 
water, add four pints of boiling w^ater. Boil to 
one-half, strain, and drink cool. 



Sick and Convalescent. 11 

RICE-WATER ( Onjza Sat Ira) 

May be prepared in the same way as barley- 
water. It is entirely free from laxative properties, 
and is admirably adapted to states of weak bowels 
and tendency to diarrhoea. 

S U G A R - W A T E R. {Acer Saccharium.) 

This is the natural product of the maple-tree, 
one of the prides of our American forests, being 
the sap of the aeer sacchai'iwn^ and yields us an ad- 
mirable drink in febrile states of the system. But 
the sugar of the beet, the cane, the palm (called 
jaggary)^ or of the grape (glucose), all contribute to 
swell this list of the materia medica. 

One ounce of sugar or of rock-candy to the pint 
of water, with one scruple of citric or any other 
vegetable acid, forms a pleasant drink in febrile 
states of the system; and molasses and vinegar, in 
the proportion of four of the former to one part of 
the latter, with a little powdered ginger, form a de- 
lightful and nutritious beverage. Pectine or vege- 
table jellies also form a convenient diet for the sick 
ami convalescent. 



1 -2 T) 1 i: T 1- It T I!l E 

Juices of Ripe Fruits or Jellies, in the form of Acidu- 
lated Drinks or Watered Ices. 

LEMONADE. 

The juice of one lemon, added to one pint of 
cold water, with two ounces of sin"iY)le syvnp, forms 
an agreeable and refreshing beverage; and being 
refrigerant, is admirably adapted for inflammatory 
and febrile complaints. 

OKANGEADE. 

This is prepared in the same manner as the 
above. The juice of oranges is not so acid, and 
therefore requires less sugar than that from lemons. 
Both drinks, when frozen, constitute the lemon 
and orange watered ices of the shops. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

R. Bacca Rubi Idoei Suec Oss. Take Raspberr}'. 

Acetum communis ^vi. Juice, ^ pint. 

Sacch. Alb Sxii. Vinegar, G oz. 

Sugar, 12 oz. 

Boil to a syrup, and add two tablespoonfuls to 
half a pint of watei* for a (h-ink. 



Sick and Convalescent. 13 

s t r a w berry juice. 

Take equal weights of ripe strawberries and pul- 
verized loaf-sugar; mix tliem, and let stand in a 
cool place twelve hours; strain off the juice, and 
to two tahlespoonfuls add half a pint of cold water. 
This constitutes a delio^htful and refreshino- bever- 
age, and may be taken ad libitum in inflammatory^ 
affections. 

This juice, when boiled with suflicient Avater to 
the density of 1.319, constitutes the strawberry 
syrup of the U. S. P. ; and to prevent fermentation, 
should have 32 parts in every 1000 of sugar of 
milk added. 

In like manner, from raspberries or blackberries 
(the latter containing an astringent principle), may 
be prepared, 

RASPBERRY JUICE, 
BLACKBERRY JUICE. 

PINEAPPLE JUICE 

Is made as the above, using one pound and a 
half of powdered loaf-sugar to one pound of pine- 



14 Diet f o i\ the 

apple, in tliiii slices ; and may l)C made into a 
syrup, as directed for the foregoing. One ounce 
to half a pint of water constitutes a drink. 

APPLE JUICE 

Is prepared by adding to half a pint of cold 
water two tablespoonfuls of apple jelly, made as 
follows : 

Boil twenty- four apples, cut up and cored, in a 
quart of water, with sliced lemon, nntil nearly satu- 
rated. Strain, and to every pint of juice add a 
pound of loaf-sugar, and boil till done ; which is 
ascertained by cooling a small quantity, and drop- 
ping it into a glass full of cold water. If it sinks 
to the bottom, the liquid will gelatinize when cold. 

CUR Pv ANT JUICE. 

This is made by adding two tablespoonfuls of 
currant jelly to half a pint of water; drink often, 
but little at once. Currant jelly is prepared by ex- 
tracting the juice of the currant, placing it in a 
covered jar, in boiling water, over a brisk tiro ; 
boilina: for tw^enty minutes one pint of the juice 



Sick and Convalescent. 15 

>vitli one pound of loaf-sugar ; first dissolving the 
sugar in tlie juice before Ijoiling. 

QUINCE JUICE 

Is prepared in the same manner as apple juice; 
using C|uince jelly instead of apple jelly. 

P E A 11 JUICE. 

This is made by adding two tablespoonfuls of the 
juice of preserved pears to half a pint of cold 
water. 

\ E R JUICE. 

This is the expressed juice of the unripe grape ;■ 
mucli esteemed for its refreshing properties in hot 
climates, containing, besides malic and tartaric, 
racemic acid, largely diluted with water. The 
juice of the ripe fruit, particularly the Malaga 
grape, without the skin, pulpy part, or seeds, is 
much more esteemed by the sick and convalescent. 
Raisins are often used, boiled in gruel or the like, 
to impart flavor: but should not be allowed to the 
sick whose digestion is weak, or where there is a 
tendencv to flatulencv. 



16 Die t i- o ii t h e 

TAMA IIIXI) JUICE. 

Tamariiidri in a preserved state are imported from 
the East and West Indies, and eontain citric, tar- 
taric, and malic acids, united with gum, sugar and 
cream of tartar. AVhen four tahlespoonfuls are 
taken and added to half a pint of cold water, and 
frequently agitated for twenty minutes, an agree- 
able and acid drink is produced, which is laxative 
in its properties, and is admirably adapted to those 
cases where there is a constipated condition of the 
bowels, left during convalescence from an active 
fever. Simple syrup added to the imported juice 
renders it much more palatable and nutritious. 

At certain seasons of the year, these fruits become 
scarce, and are not to be procured. To meet this 
want, artificial flavors have been introduced; to 
prepare which, see 

Fruit Essences. 

ESSENCE OF PINEAPPLE. ( Basi!^ For,, „!a. ) 

Dissolve six pounds of sugar and half an ounce 
:)f tartaric acid in twenty pounds of boiling water. 



Sick a x d Convalescent. IT 

i\i'tei' the solution has stood several days, add eight 
ounces of putrid cheese, broken up with three 
pounds of skimmed and curdled sour milk, and 
three pounds of levigated chalk. The mixture is 
kept warm, at about the temperature of 02° F., 
and stirred daily, for live or six weeks, till gas has 
ceased to be evolved. The liquid thus obtained is 
mixed with an equal quantity of cold water, and 
eight pounds of crystallized carbonate of soda, pre- 
viously dissolved iu water, added. It is then fil- 
tered, and the filtrate evaporated down to ten 
pounds, and live and a half pounds of sulphuric 
acid, diluted wdth the same quantity of water, 
carefully added. The butyric acid, which sepa- 
rates on the surface as a dark-colored oil, is to be 
removed, and the rest of the liquid distilled, neu- 
tralized with carbonate of soda, and the butyric 
a(;id separated as 1)efore by sulphuric acid. 

The impure butj-ric acid is purified by adding 
one ounce of sulphuric acid to every })0und of the 
crude acid, saturated with fused chloride of eal- 



O :!: 



18 JDlET FOR THE 

cium, and redistilled. The product will yield about 
twenty-eight ounces of pure l)utyri(.' acid. 

The essence of pineapple is prepared from this 
acid by mixing, by weight, three parts of butyric 
acid with six parts of alcohol and two parts of sul- 
phuric acid, in a retort, and submitting the whole 
to distillation with a gentle heat. The product is 
treated with chloride of calcium, and redistilled. 
The pure ether is tlius obtained. 

Take of Essence of Pineapple .1 cz 

Simple SyruT 2 galla. 

Burnt Sugar | oz. 

Fruit Acid 8 oz. 

M. Two ounces, mixed with carbonated soda, 
or ice-water, forms a most delightful and refreshing 
beverage. 

FRUIT ACID. 

Take of Citric Acid 8 oz. 

Boiling Water 6 oz. 

AVlien dissolved, filter through pajDcr. 



Sick a x d Convalescent. 19 

Artificial Fruit Essences. 

PEAR OIL. 

This is a solutiou of acetate of amyl-oxide and 
acetate of ethyl-oxide in aleohoh Fifteen parts of 
the former are dissolved with half a part of acetic 
ether in one hundred parts of alcohol, and consti- 
tute the essence of pear. 

R. Syrup Simplex 1 gall. 

Essence of Pear A oz. 

Fruit Acid 4 oz. 

^[. This is jargonelle pear syrup. Two ounces 
added to half a pint of fountain soda, or ice-water, 
is a pleasant and refreshing drink. 

B A X A X A E S S E X C E 

Is prepared by mixing essence of pear with bu- 
tyric ether in sufficient quantities, so that when 
half an ounce is added to four })ints of simple 
syrup and two ounces of fruit acid, and two ounces 
are incorporated with half a pint of iced or soda 
water, it shall have the flavor of the fresh ])an.ana 
fruit. 



20 1) I L T F R T II E 

]•: s s I-: X c ]■: o f quince. 
This is the pelurgoiiic ethor (formed by reaction 
of dilute nitric acid on tlie oil of rue), dissolved in 
alcohol ; having an aoTeeablc vinous odor, and a 
taste slightly acid. It is prepared for use in the 
same manner as the pear syrup. 

ESSENCE OF APPLE 

Is prepared by the reaction of four parts fusil oil 
and four parts sulphuric acid with live parts valeri- 
anic acid. One part of this ether valerianate of 
amylic, dissolved in eight parts alcohol, is used for 
flavoring the syrup of apple. 

Strawberri/, Raspberry, Apricot, Mulberry, Green 
G-age, and Black Currant essences, are mixtures of 
the above ethers, modified by the addition of nitrous 
ether, vanilla, and certain volatile oils, to bring 
about the taste and odor of X\\q fresh fruit, which 
* it is the object to imitate ; the success in which 
depends upon the purity of the materials employed. 

I M P E 11 1 A T- . 

. Take cream of tartar two ounces; the juice and 
peel of two lemons: pour on these six quarts 



Sick an d C o x v a l e s c e x t. 21 

of boiling water; stir, and cover close; sweeten 
witli loaf-sngar to yonr taste; then strain, and bot- 
tle ; adding lialf a pint of the best Monongakela 

c 

^Mhiskey to tlie whole quantity. 



Second Class. — Substances of the vegetable 
kingdom, identical with the constituents of the 
human body; entering into its composition without 
change, and consisting of albumen, gluten, and 
lixed oils. 

a T - .AI E a L GRUEL. 

Take two ounces of oat-meal, and one quart of 
boiling water; mix the meal with sufficient cold 
water to make a paste ; then add it to the Ixjiling 
water, little by little, stirring all the time ; then 
remove from the lire, and add sugar and spice suf- 
ficient to make it agreeable. 

It will rerpiire twenty minutes' boiling. A little 
salt added is palatable. If the above be made from 
the Bethlehem oat-meal, it should not be strained ; 



22 1) I K T F 11 T JI E 

but if from coar.se ii,'rit>'^, after l)oiliiig, it sliould be 
passed tliroiig'li a sieve, and tlieii seasoned. 

ONIONSOUP , 

Is niucli eraved by many recovering from sick- 
ness. 

Cut a large onion into live pieces; Avarm some 
butter in a frying-pan ; put tlie onion in, and fry it 
l)rown, with a little salt and pepper, if allowable. 
Then toast a piece of bread brown, cut it up into 
small pieces, and place it on a disli. When the 
onion is well done, pour over it a pint of boiling 
Vs^ater ; stir it round briskly, and then pour over the 
toast. 

C II A C K E R PANADA. 

Put two or three crackers into a pint tin-cu}» of 
cold Avater. Set it on the fire, covering it closely. 
When it boils, pour it into a bowl, sw^eeten, and 
add a little spice, if allowable. To be eaten warm. 

INDIAN GllUEL. 

Put three large tablespoonfuls of Indian meal 
(sifted) into a quart of water ; l)oil fifteen minutes, 
sweeten, and serve up w ith toast. 



Sick and Convalescent. 23 

P A N ADA. 

Having pared oiF the crust, boil some slices of 
bread in a quart of water for about five minutes. 
Then take out the bread, and beat it, vith a little 
of the water in which it has been l)oiled, in a deep 
dish, to a pulp. Mix with a little butter, sugar, 
and nutmeg, to suit the taste. 

FARINA 

Is prepared for use by stirring a tablespoonfal or 
more into a pint of boiling water, simmering for a 
quarter or half an hour, and flavoring with essence 
of vanilla, or lemon, to suit the taste. 

GRATED FLOUR. 

Take one pound of fine wheat flour; tie it up in 
a linen cloth, as tight as possible ; and after fre- 
quently dipping it in cold water, and then in flour, 
so as to form a crust around the bag, and prevent 
the v/ater from soakiup' it while boiline^, then boil in 
a gallon of water, until it becomes a hard, dry mass. 
Two tablespoonfuls of this flour is grated, and 
boiled in a pint of water. Flavored and sweetened 
to suit the taste. 



24 D I E T F R T H E 

V E a E T A r, L E SOU p. 
Take two potatoes, two onions, two turnips, one 
carrot, and a little parsley, and cliop them fine. 
Peel the potatoes, quarter them, slice the onions, 
cut the turnips, and slice the carrot. With suffi- 
cient salt, hoil in three pints of water, down to a 
quart. About fifteen minutes before it is done, add 
the parsle3\ Strain, and serve Avith light bread or 
toast. 

COCOA. 

Boil two ounces of good cocoa in a quart of 
v/ater. Simmer quietly for an hour, and serve hot, 
v/itli sugar and cream. 

CHOCOLATE. 

After a decoction of chocolate is made in the 
usual way, it should be allowed to stand till cool. 
The oily parts which rise to the surfjice should then 
be removed, and the liquid boiled, and served up 
with suirar to suit the taste. 



Third Class. — Intermediate between the most 
nutritious vegetable and a full animal diet, is milk; 
the oily matter of which, particularly ci'eam, bears 



S I C K A X D Co N V A L E S C E X T. 25 

about the siimc practical relation to vegetable oils 
as its caseine does to vegetable albumen, and is one 
of the fii'st articles of food which may be allowed 
in rising from the lower to the higher grades of 
diet. 

MILK DIET. 

COWS :\IILK, 

Like the milk of most other animals, is resolv- 
able into three parts, very different in their proper- 
ties from each other : viz., the oily part, which 
yields cream and butter; the coagulable part, 
Avliich sfives curd and cheese ; and the waterv, 
sweet part, which constitutes vrhey. The coagu- 
lable part is very abundant in the milk of cows, 
o'oats, and sheep ; but the proportion is smaller in 
the milk of asses and mares, and smallest in that 
of women. It is chiefly ovring to the greater or 
less proportion of the curdy matter, that the milk 
of different animals is heavier or lighter upon the 
stomach ; or, in other words, more or less digestible. 
Hence, next to woman's milk, mare's or asses' is 
the lightest. 



26 D I ]•: T ]• 11 T II E 

Ciilike other animal tluids, it does not, on keep- 
ing, run into the putrefactive fermentation, but 
turns sour; and, in consequence of the sugar it con- 
tains, yiekls, on distiHation, an intoxicating liquor, 
called "Koumiss." On account of the abundance of 
oily and coagulable matter which it contains, cow's 
milk is by no means so well suited to infants as 
human milk. This has been attributed to tlie 
greater tendency to acidity in the milk of the cow, 
an herbiverous animal ; wliereas in the human sub- 
ject the diet is mixed. The quality of Avoman's 
milk too often becomes depraved, or its secretion 
stopped, l)y the luxurious and debilitating habits 
of civilized life. Cow's milk, in too many instances, 
becomes a necessary substitute. It should, there- 
fore, never be given alone to infants ; but be diluted 
witli water, to prevent those gripings and other 
diseases in young children, which it is so apt to pro- 
duce when given alone. 

Milk is rendered heavier by boiling, and is very 
liable to occasion costiveness. 



Sick and Convalesce n t. 27 

c B. E A :\i 
Is the oily part of milk, with a small admixture 
of the coagulahle part, and some of the whey. It 
is the richest and most nutritious part of milk, 
and when fresh and sweet, is very \vholesome. 

BUTTE R 

Is ohtained from cream by churning. During 
the process, the oil is supposed to combine v/ith 
oxygen. It has very nourishing properties; and, 
except when eaten in too large quantities, so as to 
produce butyric acid in the stomach, is wholesome 
and palatable. 

Curds, which are separated from milk by rennet, 
are nutritious, but not easily digested; but when 
coagulated in a particular manner, and known 
under the name of 

C R S T R P H I N C R E A :\I 

Is nutritious, grateful to the stomach and palate, 
acid, and cooling. It is prepared as follows : 

A portion of skimmed milk is put into a wooden 
vessel, deeper than wide, and Avhich has an aper- 



28 1) I 1- 'i' ]■■ (J K TH K 

turc in thu bottom, cloriod with a small plug. This 
vessel is to bu set in another, that is wider and 
deeper, surrounded with boiling water, and allowed 
to remain for one or two days, according to the 
state of the weather; after vrhich time, the milk is 
found coagulated, and its water}- portion subsided 
to the bottom of the vessel. This watery portion 
is drawn off by the aperture al)ove mentioned, and 
the coagulum in the smaller vessel is again sur- 
rounded with boiling water as before. Having 
remained in this state for twent^'-four hours longer, 
it is found that more of the watery portion is sepa- 
rated from the coagulum ; which being drawn off 
as before, the coagulum, now of a tolerably thick 
consistence, is stirred and briskly agitated with a 
wooden spatula or spoon. It is then ready to be 
served upon the table. 

CHEESE. 

Curds, separated from milk by rennet, subjected 
to strong pressure, and more or less salted, is an 
aliment suited onlv to healthv stomachs. 



S I C K A X D C N V A L E S C E N T. 29 

Toasted Cheese is still more indigestible, and is an 
improper diet for those whose stomachs are weak. 
The Cheshire, Gloucester, and Stilton, English, 
and the Parmesan, Italian, cheeses, are in most 
esteem. The Gruyeres cheese, made in the canton 
of Frieburg, and the green Swiss cheese (called 
" Schabziger "), which owes its liavor and color to 
the herb meliot, are much used in this country, 
under the name of '-Sap-Sago." 

B U T T E R - :M I L K 

Is the residuum left after churning, and is cool- 
ing, aperient, and nourishing. Sweet butter-milk 
is admirably adapted to consumptive habits, and 
should form the patient's entire drink. 

w H E Y 

Is the thin, watery part of milk, freed from its 
oily and coagulable portions, and containing its 
sweetish principle, called 

SUGAR OF MILK; 

Which is obtained from whey, by evaporation. 



3 



* 



30 Die t y u k t ii e 

A L JNI N D M I L Jv 

Is an emulsive liquid, used as a drink. It is pre- 
pared as follows : 

Take of sweet almonds, blanched, half an ounce ; 
powdered Gum Arabic, one drachm ; white sugar, 
two drachms ; water, cold, six ounces and a half. 
I^eat the almonds with the sugar and gum, and 
then gradually add the water. Almond milk con- 
tains in solution caseine, sugar, and gum; and 
retains iu suspension a fixed oil. It forms a very 
agreeable demulcent drink in colds, coughs, and 
inflammatory aftections of the bowels and urinary 
organs. 

S Y II U P OF ALMONDS. ( Onjeat.) 

Take of sweet almonds, one pound ; bitter almonds, 
four ounces; water, three pints (wine); sugar, six 
pounds. Blanch the almonds, and beat them in 
a mortar to a fine paste, adding three fiuid-ounces 
of water and one pound of sugar. Mix the paste 
thoroughly with the remainder of the water. 
Strain with strong expression, add the remainder 



Sick and U o ^■ v a l e s c e ^" x. 6i 

of the sugar to the strained licjuid, and dissolve 
with a gentle heat. Strain the syrup through linen, 
allow to cool, bottle, and keep in a cool place. 
Sometimes orange-ilower water is added, to im- 
prove the taste. 

Orgeat is demulcent, and slightly narcotic ; owing 
to the presence of the acid derived from the bitter 
almonds. It is used to iiavor drinks for the con- 
valescent, and allay troublesome coughs. Two 
tablespoonfuls are sufficient for half a pint of com- 
mon or soda w^ater. 

C C A - X U T 31 1 L K 

Is an albuminous liquid, closely allied to vege- 
table emulsions, though devoid of oily matter. It 
holds in solution vegetable caseine, sugar, gum, and 
some salts. It is highly nutritive. 

TOAST TEA. 

Toast a piece of stale bread brown on both sides, 
put it into a bowl, and pour over it boiling water 
sufficient to cover it. Sweeten with vvdiite sugar, 
and serve up either cold or hot. 



32 D I E T F R T H E 

MILK TOAST. 

Toast a piece of bread brown. Boil milk, Avith 
a little salt and butter in it, and pour over the 
toast. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Take the whites of ten eggs, two quarts of cream 
or rich milk, a few teaspoonfuls of currant or quince 
jelly, sugar, rose-water, and three drops of oil of 
lemon. Put the cream into a suitable vessel, mix 
thoroughly the oil of lemon with the sugar; after 
which, sw^eeten the cream, add rose-water sufficient 
to flavor, beat the eggs, adding the jelly, little by 
little, till it stands alone ; then place on the top of 
the cream, and serve up when done. 

FKENCII CREAM. 

Take one pint of cream, four eggs, and half a 
vanilla bean. Break the bean in pieces; boil it in 
a little milk; add it to the cream; boil both to- 
gether; take it oif of the fire, and stir in the yolks 
of four eggs, previous!}- beaten. Strain, and stir 
till cool. 



Sick and C o ^M' a l e s c e .n t. So 



SYLLABUB. 

Take one pint of cream, the rind of one lemon, 
grated, two onnces of loaf-sugar, and the whites of 
three eggs. Beat these ingredients together, and 
as the froth collects serve up in syllabub-glasses. 



I c E - C Ft E A :^i 

Is made by flavoring cream with lemon, orange, 
vanilla, pineapple, or strawberries, and sweetening 
and freezing. It is a grateful and nourishing diet 
for the convalescent where there is no predisposi- 
tion to fever. 

B L A X C - M A X G E . {From Gelatine. ) 

Take one ounce of gelatine ; boil in a small 
quantity of water, until it is completely dissolved ; 
then add one quart of cream, sweeten with half a 
pound of loaf-sugar, boil together for five minates, 
strain, add forty drops of extract of vanilla and a 
few drops of oil of lemon. When cold, serve up 
in o'lasses. Or it mav be eaten after it has been 
moulded. 



34 Diet f o k t h e 

B L A N C - JI A N G E . [From Carrcujven, or Iriuh Must:) 

Take one teacupful of Irish moss, free from ex- 
traneous substances; rinse it in one water; then 
just cover it witli water, and put it over the fire. 
As soon as it boils, add one quart of sweet milk ; 
and as soon as it commences boiling again, take it 
off, and pass it through a bag. Sweeten it accord- 
ing to taste, and flavor with extract of lemon. 

BLANC- IMANGE. 

Take one quart of cream, half a pound of loaf- 
sugar, half a glass of rose-water, six calf's feet (or 
an ounce of gelatine or isinglass), ten drops of the 
essence of almonds, a stick of cinnamon, and the 
grated rind of a lemon. Boil the feet in three or 
four quarts of water until the meat falls from the 
bones ; strain the liquor, and set it away. IscKt 
day, scrape the grease from the top. and the sedi- 
ment from the bottom of the jelly ; put it, with the 
other ingredients (except the essence and rose- 
water), into a vessel over the tire. Boil all together 
live minutes ; strain it, add the essences, stir until 



Sick and Convalescent. 35 

cool, and pour into your moulds. Do not take them 
out of the moulds long before you wish to use 
them, as the air discolors them. 

In using the isinglass, boil it in a small quantity 
of Avater until it is dissolved completely; add the 
other ingredients, and prepare it as above. 



Fourth Class. — Another kind of food consists 
of animal principles closely analogous with the 
albumen and gluten of vegetables. Like them, 
very nutritive, witli but little of the stimulant pro- 
perty ; consisting of proteine, and containing very 
2-ninute proportions of ''•' Sulphur and Phosphorus." 

EGGS. 

Granivorous birds, and especially the domestic 
fowl, yield a mild, demulcent, and strengthening ali- 
ment, suited to the condition of advanced conva- 
lescents, and such as are exhausted by immoderate 
evacuations. 

Haw egg^ are gently laxative, while botli tlio 



'•]o 1) I K T F n T H ]•: 

white and yolk are rendered less digestible to the 
generality of stomachs when boiled to hardness. 
The lightest and best mode of preparing them iov 
the table is to boil them only so long as is neces- 
sary to harden the white, vrithout depriving the 
yolk of its fluidity. 

Fried eggs are, in general, not suited to the con- 
dition of the sick and convalescent. 

TO BOIL EG GS. 

Have your water boiling, and then put the eggs 
in very carefully. If you w^ant the whites well 
cooked, and the yolks soft, five minutes are suffi- 
cient ; if you want them hard boiled, cook them 
eight minutes. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break the eggs carefully into a dish of boiling 
water, and let them boil a few minutes, until the 
whites are completely done, leaving the yolks soft. 
Serve up with a little salt, pepper, and butter (if 
not disallowed). 



S I C K A X T> (^ NM' A L E S C E N T. 37 

Fifth Class. — Animal substances most nutritive, 
containing albumen, lil)rine, caseine, and oleaginous 
products, or ozmozoue. 

Tbis class consists of tonic diet of full animal, or 
animal and vegetable food ; a mixture of wbicb is 
best suited to man. Tbe quality of animal food is 
scarcely less important than its quantity ; since 
some kinds are more stimulant, some more nutri- 
tious, and some more digestible than others. 

J^ext in the scale of nutritive power are oysters, 
and the lighter kinds of fish. Raw, particularly 
salt, oysters, are stomachic, often increasing the 
appetite, and are most excellent diet when deprived 
of the hard part. 

^S^ext comes poultry with white flesh. After 
these, the ordinary meats, as mutton and beef. The 
dark-fleshed poultry, as ducks and geese, with pork, 
though stimulant, are difficult of digestion, and are 
not suited to the sick, whose digestion has been 
enfeebled by indisposition. AVild animal food is 
preferable to the same varieties of tame, as being 
more easily digested. Adult animal is preferable 
4 



38 J) I E T r R T II E 

to very young, which is stringy and less nutritive, 
or to the old, which is often very tough. 

Frying is, of all the modes of preparation, most 
unsuitable to the condition of the sick. Roasting, 
broiling, baking, and stewing, are the most appro- 
priate modes of preparation. Soups contain the 
extractive gelatin ; and other soluble parts of the 
meat are less nutritious than the solid flesh ; the 
essence being the most stimulating of the two. 

C A L r ' S - F T JELLY. 

For making calf 's-foot jelly, obtain, if possible, 
feet that have been dressed with the skin on. Boil 
eight feet in six quarts of water — boil them a long- 
time, until the meat drops from the bones. Strain 
and measure the liquor, and set away to get cold. 
Kext day, scrape the grease from the top and the 
sediment from the bottom of the jelly, and to each 
quart add the following ingredients : 

One pound of loaf-sugar (pounded), the whites 
of Ave eggs, three lemons (or a teaspoonful of tar- 
taric acid and a few drops of oil of lemon), an 



Sick and Convalesced t. 89 

ounce of cinnamon in the stick, the rind of an 
orange, and a pint of sweet cider. 

Beat the eggs lightly, and put thein, uuth the 
jelly, sugar, lemons (cut up), cinnamon, and orange- 
peel, into a vessel. Stir them well together, and 
set them on the lire ; let them hoil live minutes ; 
then add the cider, and let it hoil again. Do not 
stir it after it is set on the fire. Pour it through a 
cullender or sieve into a flannel hag; set your 
moulds under the bag, and set it in a warm place ; 
let it drain through gradually — do not squeeze it, 
or that will prevent its being clear. If it is not 
clear, warm it, and strain it again and again. 

ASSES' MILK. [Artijiclal.) 

Take half an ounce of isinglass ; dissolve it in a 
quart of warm barley-water; add one ounce of 
refined sugar ; then mix with a quart of new milk, 
and beat up together with a whisk. 

This is inferior to the asses' milk, which is one 
of the best restorative nutrients in convalescence. 
They should be taken warm. 



40 Die t f u ii t ii e 

CHICKEN JELL Y, 

Cut 11 chicken into small pieces ; bruise the 
bones, and put the whole in a stone jar, with a 
water-tight cover. Set the jar in a large kettle of 
boiling Avater, and keep it boiling three hours. 
Then strain off the liquid, and season with salt and 
pepper. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Dissolve one ounce of Cox's isinHass in as much 
warm water as will cover it. Mix the juice of seven 
large ripe oranges with a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, 
provided it measures a pint; if not, add enough 
water to make up the deficiency. Put these ingre- 
dients into a porcelain pan, OA'cr hot coals, and stir 
till they boil. Strain the whole through a jelly-bag 
till it is quite clear, having added a few petals 
of the Spanish saifron just before done boiling. 
There should be a pint of orange juice to every 
pound of sugar. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Take a quarter of a peck each of tender ochres 
and ripe tomatoes. Chop the ochres fine, and scald 
and peel the tomatoes. Put them into a stew-pan 
without any water. Add ii lump of butter, and :i 



Sick and Convalescent. 41 

very little salt and pepper — if preferred, an onion, 
minced fine. Let it stew steadily for an hour ; 
then strain it, and serve it up with dry toast. It 
should he like a jelly. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take of lean heef, but juicy, one pound, and cut 
it into shreds. Put it in a quart of water, and boil 
for twenty minutes ; taking off the scum as it 
rises. After it is cold, strain, and season with a 
little salt and black or Cayenne pepper, if allowed. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

Cut a piece of lean and juicy beef into pieces an 
inch square. Put them into a porter-bottle and 
cork tightly : then put the bottle into a vessel of 
boiling water, and boil for two or three hours. In 
this way you procure the pure juice of the beef; 
and, after straining and seasoning, the essence may 
be served to the sick and convalescent. 

L E M N J E L L Y. ( Without BoiUwj.) (Lord.) 

Take of Cox's isinglass one ounce ; pour over 
it a pint of cold water, and let it stand twenty 
4^ 



42 Diet f o k t n e 

minutes. Then add tliree pints oi' ])()ilinu' water, 
white sugar sufficient to sweeten, lialf a pint of 
Madeira wine, the juice of one lemon, and three 
sticks of cinnamon bark. Strain through a sieve 
or coarse cloth, and set in a cool phice to gelatinize. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

To one quart of boiling water, add one pound of 
lean mutton ; season with a little celery and salt 
and pepper. Boil slowly for two hours, removing 
the scum as it rises. To be served up with dry 
toast. 

BEEF BROTH. 

Take one pound of good, juicy beef, from which 
the fat has been removed, and boil slowly for two 
hours, in a quart of boiling water ; adding a small 
onion, sliced thin, and a small twig of parsley. 
Barley and rice may be added, to thicken. Serve 
up with toasted bread. 



Sick and Convalescent. 43 

STIMULANTS. 

WINE WIIEY. 

Bring a pint of milk to the boil ; then quickly 
throw in one gill of Sherry or Madeira wine ; bring 
it again to the boil, and having taken it from the 
fire, let it stand for a few moments, but do not stir 
it. Then remove the curd, and pour the clear whey 
into a bowl, and sweeten it. 

This is used in cases of debility. When a pa- 
tient is reduced so low that fainting comes on, it is 
an excellent restorative. 

EGG WINE. 

Take the yolk of an egg, and put it in the bot- 
tom of a wineglass. Then fill up the glass with 
pure Sherry wine, and drink it, fasting. 

This is very useful in hemorrhage from the 
bowels, or in bleeding piles. 

EGG FLIP. 

Take of brandy, one gill ; cinnamon-'water, four 
fluid-ounces ; the yolks of two eggs ; white sugar, 



44 D I E T r R T H E 

half ail ounce; oil of cinnamou, four drops. Mix 
them well together, and give in doses of one table- 
spoonful, as often as required. 

This is a nutritive and stimulating draught, ap- 
plicable to the sinking stage of low forms of 
disease. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Take of the best brandy, four ounces; sweet 
milk, eight ounces. Mix them, and let the con- 
valescent (an adult) have one wineglassful for a 
dose, and repeat it as often as required. 

Physicians cannot be too guarded in prescribing 
stimulants of the above character to their patients, 
lest they may lay the foundation of habits of in- 
temperance, which in future life may be very diffi- 
cult to break up ; and abandon. A direful necessity 
should always exist for their employment; and 
when other stimulants can be as safely used, they 
should have the preference. 

FINIS. 



Sick axd C ox valesce xt. 45 

LIQUID MEASUEE. 

One teaspoonful is equul to sixty drops. 

Half an ounce, or one tablespoonful, is equal to four tea- 
spoonfuls. 
One ounce is equal to two tablespoonfuls. 
One desertspoonful is equal to two teaspoonfuls. 
One gill is equal to one teacupful. 

One Avineglassful is equal to tAvo ounces, or half a teacupful. 
Half a pint is equal to a tumblerful, or eight ounces. 
Two pints are equal to one quart. 
Four quarts are equal to one gallon. 



DRY MEASURE. 

Half a gallon is equal to quarter of a peck. 

One gallon is equal to half a peck. 

Two gallons are equal to one peck. 

Four gallons are equal to half a bushel. 

Eight gallons are equal to one bushel. 

Ten eggs, before being broken, weigh one pound. 

One tablespoonful of salt weighs one ounce avoirdupois. 

"Leslie.'^ 



GLOSSARY 



OF TERMS USED IX THIS BOOK, NOT IX COMMON USE. 



Ad libitum. According to the will. 

Alhumen. A substance which exists nearly pure in the white 
of the egg, and occurs as a proximate principle in vege- 
tables. 

Althea Tea [Marsh Mallows). One ounce of the root, boiled 
in a pint of water, allowed to grow cold, strained, and 
sweetened, forms an elegant demulcent drink, useful in 
fevers and inflammatory complaints, and much used in 
England. 

Antiphlogisfic. Any medicine or diet which reduces inflamma- 
tion. 

Arabic, Gum. The product of the acacia, a tree growing in 
Egypt. 

Arrow-root. The starch-grains of the plant Maranta Arund, 
a native of Bermuda, but now transplanted to Georgia, and 
brought to great perfection. 

B. 

BarJeij. The grains of the liordeoJum. The pearl is the best. 
Banana. A species of the genus " musa." A plantain-tree, 

growing in tropical countries. 
Blackberry/. The berries of the rnbus villoses. 
Blanc-mange. From the Frondi " hlanc mange." White food. 

(47) 



48 G L 6 S A II Y. 



C. 



Ciuina. The starch of the canna edulis, taken from the root. 

fhinninr) Ripe Fruit; or, to Preserve Fruit ?'?< Cans. The groat 
art is to exclude the atmospheric air. Thus, to preserve 
peaches in cans, pare the peaches, sprinkle them with 
white sugar, and let them stand two or three hours ; then 
bring them to the boiling heat — 212° F. ; put them in cans, 
and solder them immediately. In like manner may be pre- 
served Apples, Quinces, Pears, Apricots, and Egg-Plums, 

Caseine. Cheese. 

Cocoa. A tree belonging to the genus cocus, order of pahnce. 
The nut or fruit. The shells are used in decoction; one 
ounce to a pint of boiling water, boiled fifteen minutes, 
and served up with sugar and cream, forming a delightful 
beverage. The chocolate is obtained from this nut l)y 
roasting, powdering, and mixing with vanilla or cinnamon, 
sugar, and butter ; constituting the vanilla or spiced cho- 
colate of the shops. 

D. 

Decoction. A solution made by boiling. 

Demulcent. Any medicine which lessens the effects of irrita- 
tion. 

B. 

Emulsion. Mixtures containing an oily substance. 

Emulsive. Milky. 

Essence. A volatile oil, dissolved in alcohol. 

F. 

Flaxseed. The seed of the linum. One ounce, infused in t 
pint of boiling water, and allowed to cool, and then 
strained, is the "flaxseed tea," and is very useful in the 
sick room. 



GLOSSARY. 49 

Fruit Essences. Artificial. These may be obtained from the 
manufacturing chemists, Rosengarten & Sons, and Powers 
& Whiteman, of this city, in great purity; but the "can- 
ning,'^ as it is called, of the fresh fruits, has almost en- 
tirely taken their place. 

a 

Glucose. A sugar obtained from grapes. 
Gluten. Resembling glue. 
Graniverous. Living on grain. 

H. 

Haddock. A sea-fish, of the genus gadus, or cod. It has a 
long body ; the upper part of a dusky brown color, and 
the belly of a silvery hue. The lateral line is black. It 
abounds in the Northern seas, and constitutes a consider- 
able article of food. 

I. 

Infusions. Watery solutions, obtained without boiling. 

J. 

Jaggary, In India, a dark, coarse sugar, obtained from palms. 
Jelly. From the Latin gelo, to congeal. 

K. 

Koumiss. A liquor made among the Caimucks, by fermenting 
mare's milk ; and from which they obtain, by distillation, 
an intoxicating liquor called " rack.'' 

L. 

Lactic Acid. The acid of milk, obtained from it when sour. 
5 D 



50 GLOSSARY. 

M. 

Macerate. To soften by steeping. 
Malic Acid. The acid of the apple. 

Motto — Indocti discant, et anient meminesse docti. *' Let the un- 
skilful learn, and the learned improve their recollection." 

N. 

Nutritive. That whicli promotes the growth and repairs the 
■waste of the animal economy. 

0. 

Oils, Fixed, leave a grease-spot on paper, in contradistinc- 
tion to 

Oils, Volatile, which leave no such spot, when placed on white 
paper and held before a hot fire. 

Orgeat. From orge barley, a liquid made from barley and 
sweet almonds. 

Osmozone. A substance of an aromatic flavor, obtained from 
muscular fibre. It is of a yellowish-brown color, soluble 
in water and alcohol, whether cold or hot, but does not 
form a jelly by concentration. It gives the characteristic 
odor and taste of soup. — " Tiiexard." 



Panada. A word derived homj^anis^ '^Dread." 

Parsley. A plant derived from the petroselineum. The leaves 
are used only in cookery. 

Pectine. Vegetable jellies, in contradistinction to animal jellies. 

Phosplwrus. A non-metallic element, discovered in 1GG9, by 
Brandt, an alchemist of Hamburg, by a process kept se- 
cret till 1737. In 17C9, Gahns discovered it in bones, and 
his process for extracting it is used at the present time. It 
is of a waxy appearance, and takes fire at 100°. 



GLOSSARY. 51 

Protciac. From the Greek, Ttpwroi, lirst. A gelatinous, semi- 
transparent substance, obtained lixmi albumen, fibrine, or 
caseinc, and considered the basis of animal tissue, and of 
some substances of vegetable origin. 

Quince. The fruit of the Cydonia vulgaris; so named from 
Cydonia, a town of Crete, famous for abounding -vvith this 
fruit. One ounce of the seed, boiled in one pint of water, 
and strained, forms a fine demulcent drink, useful in fe- 
vers, and may be substituted for the other demulcent drinks 
when a change is desirable. 



R. 



R. 



The sign of one of the heathen gods, — "Jupiter,'' — and 
was formerly used as an invocation to the god of medicine, 
to bless the prescription to the patient, and to restore him 
to health. In modern prescriptions, it is used as an abbre- 
viation of "Recipe," " Take of.'' 

S. 

Saffron. The stigmas of the crocus .mtiva. 

Solution. ^ That which is dissolved. A true chemical union. 

Stigmas. The top of the pistil. — " Martyx." 

Sulphur. An elementary, non-metallic, brittle solid, of a pale 
yellow color, and exhibiting a shining fracture. It vola- 
tihzes at 180^ melts at 225°, takes fire a,t 300°, and burns 
with a blue flame, giving ofi" sulphurous acid fumes. 

T. 

Tartaric Acid The acid obtained from the argol ; which is a 
reddish substance, deposited in large quantities in the bot- 



52 u L u t> .< A K y. 

torn of the winc-vats in France ; and when combined Avith 
potash, in the proportion of two parts to one, constitutes 
the cream of tartar of the shops. — " Webster." 

u. 

Umbel. A screen, or fan, in botany. Each peduncle bears a 
little umbel. 

V. 

Verjuice. The expressed juice of the unripe grape. 

w. 

Wines. The Sherry or Madeira should be used, except in cases 
of diarrhoea ; Avhen the Port Wine, on account of its as- 
tringency, is best. 

X. 

Xylite. A liquid which exists in pyroxylic spirit. — " Graham.'^ 

Y. 

Yolk. From yellow, the vitellius. 

z. 

Zero. A cypher. Nothing. 



INDEX. 



FIRST CLASS. 

AX TI PHLOGISTIC DIET. 

Page 

Guui- water ^ 7 

Infusion of Slippery Elm (Ulmus) 7 

Infusion of Sassafras Pith (Sassafras) 8 

Infusion of Benne Leaves {Scsa)n{) 8 

Canna 8 

Tapioca 9 

Irish IMoss (Chnndrns) 9 

Arrow-root (Jfavaxta) 9 

Sago (Sagus Eumphi) , 10 

Barley-water 10 

Bice- water 11 

Sugar- water 11 

Lemooade 12 

Orangeade 12 

Raspberry Vinegar 12 

Strawberry Juice I3 

Raspberry Juice I3 

Blackberry Juice I3 

Pineapple Juice I3 

Apple Juice I4 

Currant Juice I4 

Quince Juice I5 

Pear Juice 15 

Verjuice (Jfalitga Grapes) I5 

Tamarind Juice , Ig 

5 * ( 0.3 ) 



54: INDEX. 

Artificial Fruit Essences . 16 

Essence of Pineapple 16 

Fruit Acid 18 

Pear Oil {Jargonelle) 19 

Essence of Banana {Artificial) 19 

" Quince {Artificial) 20 

" Apple {Artificial) 20 

" Strawberry {Artificial) 20 

" Raspberry {Artificial) 20 

" Apricot {Artificial) 20 

" Mulberry {Artifi.cial) 20 

" QreQn (Jage {Artificial) 20 

" Black CnTTuni {Artificial) 20 

Imperial Drink 20 

SECOND CLASS. 

Oat-meal Gruel 21 

Onion Soup 22 

Cracker Panada 22 

Indian Gruel 22 

Bread Panada 23 

Farina 23 

Grated Flour '. 23 

Vegetable Soup 24 

Cocoa 24 

Chocolate 24 



THIRD CLASS. 

MILK DIET. 

Cow's Milk 25 

Cream 27 

Butter 27 

Corstophian Cream 27 

Cheese 28 

Bulter-milk 29 

Whey 29 

Sugar of Milk 29 



INDEX. 5^ 

Almond Milk '60 

Syrup of Almonds (Orgeat) 30 

Cocoa-nut Milk 31 

Toast Tea 31 

Milk Toast 32 

Floating Island 32 

French Cream 32 

Syllabub 33 

Ice-cream 33 

Blanc- mange [Gelatin) 33 

Blanc-mange {Irish JInti>) 34 

Blanc-mange {Isinffians) 34 

FOURTH CLASS. 

Eggs, Raw and Soft-boiled 35 

Eggs, how to Boil Soft 36 

Eggs, Poached 36 



FIFTH CLASS. 

ANIMAL DIET. 

Calf's-foot Jelly 38 

Asses' Milk (Artificial) 39 

Chicken Jelly 40 

Orange Jelly 40 

Gumbo Soup 40 

Beef Tea = 41 

Essence of Beef 41 

Lemon Jelly, without Boiling 41 

Mutton Broth 42 

Beef Broth 42 



STIMULANTS. 

Wine Whey 43 

Egg Wine 43 

Egg Flip 43 

Milk Punch 44 



56 INDEX. 



ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED. 

A. 

Acid Fruit 18 

Almond Milk 30 

Althea Ten 44 

Apricot 20 

Apple, Essence of 20 

Apple Juice '14 

Asses' Milk {Artificial) 39 

Arruw-root ^ 9 

Artificial Fruit Essences 16 

B. 

Banana, Essence oi {Artificial) 19 

Barley-water 10 

Beef Broth 42 

Beef, Essence of 41 

Beef Tea 41 

Benne Leaves, Infusion of 8 

Blackberry Juice 13 

Bhinc-mnnge, from Gelatin 33 

Blanc-mange, from Irish Moss 34 

Blanc-mange, from Isinglass 34 

Bread Panada 23 

Broth, Mutton 42 

C. 

Calfs-foot Jelly 38 

Canna Starch 8 

Canning Prepared Fruit 45 

Canning Ripe Fruit 47 

Cheese, "Sap-sago." 28 

Chicken Jelly 40 

Chocolate 24 

Cocoa 24 



INDEX. ' 57 

Cocoa-nut Milk •"! 

CoTStophian Cream -' 

Cow's Milk 26 

Cracker Panada 22 

Cream, French 32 

Cre<im, Ice 33 

Currant. Black, Essence of 20 

Currant Juice I'i 



D. 

Decoction, Marsh Mallows 44 

Drink, Imperial 20 

E. 

Egg Flip 44 

Eggs, to Boil 35 

Egg Wine 43 

Essence, Apple {Aitljicial) 20 

. " A\)T\coi (Art;jic!(.d) 20 

*' Banana {Artificial) 19 

« Beef 41 

" Black Currant {Artificial) 20 

" Green Gage (Artificial) 20 

" 'Mulherry (Artificial) 20 

" 'PineaT^])\e (Artificial) 16 

" Quince (Artificial) 20 

" 'Raspherry (Artificial) 20 

" Strawberry (Artificial) 20 

F. 

Flax-seed Tea 48 

Floating Island 32 

Flour, Grated 23 

French Cream 32 

Fruit Acid 18 

Fruit Essences 20 



58 INDEX. 

G. 

Gloissary 47 

Grated Flour 2."} 

Green Gage, Artificial Fruit 20 

Gruel, Indian 22 

" Oat-meal 21 

Gumbo Soup 40 

Gum-water 7 

I. 

Indian Gruel 22 

Infusion, Benne Leaves 8 

" Sassafras Pith 8 

" Slippery Elm 8 

Irish Moss 9 

J. 

Jelly, Calf's-foot 41 

Jelly, Lemon 38 

Juice, Apple 14 

" Blackberry. 13 

" Currant 14 

Juncate 27 

L. 

Lemonade , 12 

Lemon Jelly 41 

M. 

Milk, Almond 30 

" Asses' (Artijicial) 27 

" Butter 29 

" Cow's 25 

" Sugar of 29 

'• Toast 32 

Motto 1 

" Translated (67os*a?-y) 48 



INDEX. 59 

Mulberry Essence 20 

Mutton Broth 42 

0. 

Oat-iiieal Gruel 21 

Oil, Pear {Jarrjonclle) 19 

Onion Soup 22 

Orangeade 12 

Orange Jelly 40 

P. 
Punch. Milk 44 

R. 

Piaspberry Juice 13 

" Vinegar 12 

Rico-water 11 

s. 

Sago 10 

Sap-sago Cheese 29 

Soup, Onion , 22 

" Vegetable 24 

Sugar of Milk 29 

Sugar-Avater 11 

Syllabub 33 

T. 

Tamarind Juice 16 

Tea, -\hhea 46 

Toast Tea 31 

w. 

W i n e , E g g . . . . ■. 43 

^YiIle Whey 43 



